REGD . No. D -222 


WAY 


सत्यमेव जयते 


The Gazette of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


No. 49 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7 , 1963/AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


LY 


NOTICE 
The undormentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 26th November 1963 


Tho undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were 
No, and Dato 

Issued by 


Subject 


Issue 

No . 
173 


174 


Do . 


175 


176 


177 


Do . 


178 


No. 144 -ITC (PN ) /63, dated 20th Min . of International Trade US-Aid programme - Chart Ring of Ocean Vessels 
Nov. 1963. 

and embargo on certain vessels for transport of 

Aid - financed goods . 
No. 7 (3) - Tar./ 63 , dated 21st Nov . 

Rocommondations of the Tariff Commission regarding 
1963 , 

continuance of protection to the Cotton Textilo 

Machinery Industry . 
No . PARL (T)-4 /62, dated 21st Nov . Ministry of Steel, Mines and Amendment to Resolution No. PARL (7 ) - 4 /62, dated 
1963. Heavy Engineering . 

22nd July 1963 
No. 145 -ITC (PN )/63 , dated 22nd Min . of International Trade Indo -Afghan Trade re- export of dry fruits after process 
Nov . 1963. 

ing . 
No. 3 (1)/ Tar/63, dated 23rd Nov. 

Recommendations of the Tariff Commission regarding 
1963. 

continuance of protection to tho Bicyclo Industry . 
No . 5( 1 )/ Tar /63, dated 23rd Nov . 

Do. 

Recommendations of the Tariff Commission regarding 
1963. 

continuance of protection to the Power and Distribu 

tion Transformers Industry . 
No . 5( 1 ) / Tar /63, dated 23rd Nov . 

Do. 

Direction that customs duty shall be levied on articles 
1963. 

and at rates specified therein , 
No . 8 ( 2) - Tar /63, dated 25th Nov . 

Do . 

Recommendations of the Tariff Commission regarding 
1963. 

continuance of protection to the Diesel Fuel Injection 

Equipment Industry . 
No . 146 -ITC (PN )/63, dated 26th 

Do. 

Import of datos from Saudi Arabia , Muscaf and othor 
Nov . 1963. 

Persian Gulf Ports , excluding Iran and Irag during 

October 1963 — March 1964 by sailing vessels . 
No . SC ( A ) -24 (1109 /63 , dated 26th Min . of Steel ,Mines and Heavy Extending the term of the reconstituted Iron and Steel 
Nov . 1963. 

Engineering. 

Advisory Council. 


179 


180 


181 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil 
Lincs , Delhi. Indents should be submitted 80 ag to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes . 


CONTENTS 


PAGES 


PAGES 


389 


4135 


237 


477 


899 


477 


PART I - SECTION 1 . -- Notifications relating to Non 

Statutory Rules , Regulations and Orders 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministries 
of tho Government of Jodia ( other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and 

by the Supreme Court . . . . . 
PART 1 - SECTION 2. - Notifications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions, Leave , etc ., 
of Government Officers issued by the 
Ministries of tho Governmont of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) 

and by the Supreme Court . . . 
PART 1 - SECTION 3 . - Notifications relating to 

Non - Statutory Rulos , Regulations , 
Orders and Resolutions, issued by the 

Ministry of Defence 
PART I - SECTION 4 .-- - Notifications rogard ng 

Appointments , Promotions , Leave , etc. , 
of Oficers lgsued by the Ministry 

Dofenco . . . . . . . . . . 
PART II - SECTION 1. - Acts, Ordinances and 

Regulations 
Part II - SECTION 2 .-- Bills and Reports of Select 

Committee on Bills . . . . . . 
Part II SECTION 3 , SUB -SECTION ( ) General 

Statutory Rules ( including orders , bye 
laws, otc . of a general character ) issued by 
the Ministries of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and 
by Central Authorities ( other than the 
Administrations of Union Toritories ) . . 


PART II - SECTION 3 . - SUB- SECTION (U ). - Statutory 

Orders and Notifications issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by Central Authorities (other than tho 

Administrations of Union Territories ) . . 
PART II - SECTION 4 . - Statutory Rules and Orders 

notified by the Ministry of Defence . . 
PART III - SECTION 1 . - Notifications issued by the 

Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission , Railway Administration , 
High Courts and the Attached and Sub 
ordinato Offices of the Governmont of 
Indie . . . 

. 
PART III — ŞECTION 2. - Notification , and Notices 

issued by the Patent Offico , Calcutta 
PART III - SECTION 3. — Notifications lagued by or 

under the authority of Chief Commis 

sioner . . . . . . . . . . . 
PART III — SECTION 4. - -Miscellaneous Notifications 

including Notifications, Orders , Advertise 
ments and Notices issued by Statutory 

Bodies . . . . . . . 
PART IV - Advertisements and Noticos by Private 

Individuals and Private Bodies . . . . 
SUPPLEMENT NO . 47 – 
Weekly Epidemiological Reports for wock -ending 

30th November 1963 . . . . . 
Births and Deaths from Principal diseases in town 

with a population of 30 , 000 and over in 
India during week - ending 9th Novem 
ber 1963 . . . . . . . . 


Nil 


409 


NII 


709 


Nil 


239 


1035 


2109 


1039 


L /G157GI/63 


( 389 ) 


390 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 7, 1963 /AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


[Part I- Sec . 1 


L 


PART I - SECTION 1 
Notifications relating to Non - Statutory Rules , Regulations and Orders and Resolutions 
issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) 

and by the Supreme Court 


The 28th November 1963 


No. 84 - Pres. /63. — The President is pleased to award the 
Polico Medal for gallantry to tho undermcntioned officer of 
the Maharashtra Polico : 


Name of the officer and rank . 
Shri Manohar Anant Chandurkar , 
Unarmed Constablo Bucklo No. 2089, 
District Polico Forco , 
Thana , Maharashtra . 


Statement of services for which the decoration has beon 
awarded . 


PRESIDENT S SECRETARIAT 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1963 
No. 82 -Pres. / 63. - The President is pleased to award tho 
President s Police and Fire Services Medal for gallantry to 
tho undermentioned officer of the Goa Police : - - 

Name of the officer and rank . 
Shri Jiwa Ram Patil , 
Armed Police Constable Driver, 
Stato Reserve Police Force Group I , 

Panjim , Goa . 
Statement of services for which the decoration has been 
awarded , 

During the operations in Goa on the 18th December 1961, 
Shri Jiwa Ram Patil was employed as a driver of one of tho 
jeeps of a Company of the State Reserve Police Force which 
was to follow the 4th Rajputs and be in support from the 
Karwar Sector . These forces met with an obstruction at 
tho Ardaphonda Bridge which had been blown up by the 
Portuguese who kept our positions under heavy mortar and 
other fire . The diversions along which our forces had to 
advance were heavily mined and in trying to negotiate them 
An Army jeep was blown up . Undeterred by the dangers of 
the situation , Shri Jiwa Ram Patil moved his jcop forward 
through the mined diversions thus giving a safe lead to our 
forces . 

Shri Jiwa Ram Patil showed conspicuous courage and great 
devotion to duty in the face of enemy fire . 

2 . This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 ( i) of 
the rules governing the award of the President s Police and 
Firo Services Medal and consequently carries with it the 
spoclal allowance admissible under rule 5 , with effect from the 
18th December 1961. 

No . 83 -Pres ./ 63. - The President is pleased to award tho 
Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned oficer of 
tho Gujarat Polico : - - 


On the 26th March 1963, a serious fire broko out in the 
Muslim Mohalla at Murbad in the Thana District , Fanned 
by a strong breeze the inflammablo building material was 
soon alight and in a few moments a wide aroa was ablazo. 
Rescuo operations wero immediately started by tho Polico , 


While the fire fighting and rescue work were in progre88 , 
it was noticed that an infant aged 14 years had been left in 
a gwing in the burning house of one Shri Sadashiv Haribhau 
Alshi who was out at the time. No one on the spot dared 
enter the blazing building to rescue thọ child . On hearing 
this Police Constable M , A , Chandurkar who was helping in 
the fire fighting immediately drenched himself with water to 
minimise the risk of his clothes catching fire and rushed 
through the flames into tho burning house and at great per 
sonal risk brought out the child . In doing thig Police Cons 
table Chandurkar received burns and was almost ovorcomo 
by the smoke and fumes . On coming out ho fainted , 

Police Constable Chandurkar exhibited conspicuous gallan 
try and devotion to duty at the risk of his own lifo . 


2. This award is made for gallantry under rulo 4 (1) of tho 
rules governing the award of the Police Medal and conse 
quently carries with it the special allowanco admissible under 
rule 5, with effect from the 26th March 1963 . 


No. 85 - Pres./ 63 . — The President is pleased to award tho 
Police Medal for gallantry to the undormontioned officer of 
the Maharashtra Police : 


Name of the officer and rank . 
Shri Chinubhai Ashabhai Shah , 
Sub - Inspector of Police , 

Panchmahals District, Gujarat. 
Statement of services for which the decoration has been 
awarded . 

Shri Chinubhai Aghabhai Shah was deputed in August 
1962 , along with a Section of the State Roserve Police Force 
Group I, Baroda , to apprehend two notorious dacoits Man 
sing and his brother Savji whose gangs had been terrorizing 
the Panchmahals District for several years . 

On the 26th August 1962, Shri Shah set up his camp 4 
few miles from Village Sajora , the home of the dacoits ; and 
by winning the confidence of the villagers was able to 
apprehend Mansing on the 9th September 1962 , 


Name of the officer and rank . 
Shri Shankar Sadashiv Tawade, 
Armed Police Constablo Buckle No. 623 , 
District Police Force, 
Thana, Maharashtra , 


Statement of services for which the decoration has been 
awarded . 


On the 3rd October information was received that Savji 
would visit his house that night. Aftor dusk , Shri Shah with 
a member of the State Reserve Police Force and a trusted 
informant, hid in Savji s houso . At about 9 . 30 p . m ., Savji , 
armed with a shotgun , çame to his house and chatted with 
his brother Magura who was lying on the verandah , Savji 
sent Masura into the house to bring food , but when the 
cattle tethered in the house made a noise , Savji became sus 
picious and left the verandah asking Masura whether thero 
was anyone inside the house . Realising that Savji might 
leave the house , Shri Shah , despite the risk of being shot , 
rushed out and called on Savji to surrender . Savji fired at 
Shri Shah who promptly returned tho fire with his revolver 
wounding the dacoit . Shri Shah then caught hold of him 
and put him under arrest. A DBBL shotgun , with one dis 
charged and one live cartridge in the breech and 15 rounds of 
ammunition were seized from the dacoit, 

In these operations against two notorious dacoit . Sbri 
Chinubhai Ashabhai Shah showed commendable zeal, initia 
tive and courage of a high order , 


On the 26th March 1963 , a serious firo broke out in thọ 
Muslim Mohalla at Murbad in Thana District. Fadded by 
a strong breeze the inflammable building material was soon 
alight and in a few moments a wide area was ablaze . 
Rescue operations were immediately started by the Polico . 

While tho fire fighting and rescue work wero in progress , 
it was noticed that a child had been trapped in a burning 
house of one Malu Rama Late who was away when his 
house had caught firo . His wife had managed to rescue her 
elder children , aged 7 , 5 and 3 years but was unable to bring 
out her youngest daughter aged 2 years. The father of the 
child rushed to his house when he came to know about tho 
fire but no one dared enter the burning house to savo tho 
child . Armed Police Constable S . S . Tawade who was near 
by , regardless of the danger to himself, immediately rushed 
inside the house through the flames and rescued the child . 


Constable Tawade exhibited gallantry and devotion to duty 
of a high order in utter disregard of his own safety in saving 
the child . 

2 . This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 (1 ) of 
the rules governing the award of the Police Medal and conso 
quently carries with it the special allowance admissiblo undor 
rulo 5 , with effect from the 26th March 1963 . 


2 . This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 ( i) of 
tho rules governing tho award of the Police Medal and conse 
quently carries with it the special allowance admissible under 
rulo 5 , with effect from the 3rd October 1962, 


S . DUTT , Socy , to the President 


PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 7 , 1963/AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


391 


ORDER 


SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 29th Nov . 1963 
No . F . 22/64 -SCA (G ) : - In pursuance of Rule 5 of Order 11 
of the Supreme Court Rules, 1950 ( as amended ), it is hereby 
notified that the following days will be observed as Court holidays 
during the year 1964 . 


ORDERED that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
to the members of the Board , the Private and Military Secre 
tary to the President, the Prime Minister s Secretariat, the 
Cabinet Secretariat, the Planning Commission , the Ministries / 
Departments of the Government of India and the Stato 
Governments concerned and the Department of Parliamen 
tary Affairs. 


Name of Holiday Month & Dato 


Day of tho 

Week 


Number 
of Days 


ORDERED also that the resolution be published 
Gazette of India for general information . 


in 


tho 


G , VENKATESWARA AYYAR , Socy. 


Republic Day 26th January Sunday 
Id -ul-Fitr 

15th February Saturday 
Holi 

27th and 28th Thursday & 
Februáry 

Friday 
Good Friday 27th March 

Friday 
Baisakhi 

13th April Monday 
Ram Naumi 20th April 

Monday 
Id - uz -Zuha 23rd April 

Thursday 
Muharram 

23rd May Saturday 
Miladyn Nabi 22nd July Wednesday 
Independence Day 15th August Saturday 
Jepam Ashtmi 30th August Sunday 
Mahatma Gandhi s 

Birthday 2nd October Friday 
Dussehra 

12th October to Monday to 

16th October Friday 
Diwali 2nd and 3rd 

Monday and 

Novembor Tuosday 
Guru Nanak s 
Birthday 

19th November Thursday 
Christmas & New 21st December 64 
Yoar s holidays to 1st Jan . 

1965. 
(both days inclus 

sive ) 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 

BROADCASTING 
State Awards for Filme 

PUBLIC NOTICES 
New Delhi- 1, the 28th November 1963 
No. 7 / 49 ( I ) / 63 -FI. - - Io pursuance of rule 8 of the Rules 
concerning State Awards for Films notified in the Resolution , 
oť the Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting No . 7 / 4 / 63 - FI dated the 9th January , 1963 , 
entries for the Stato Awards for Films are hereby invited in 
respect of Indian films certified for public exhibition durlog 
tho calendar year 1963 and filmstrips produced during tho 
said year . The entry in respect of a film or filmstrip may 
be mado by its producer or any other person duly authorised 
by him in this behalf up to January 4 , 1964 . The entry 
should be made in duplicate in the form prescribed in tho 
Schedulç annexed to the Rules referred to above . The entry 
forms in the case of feature films shall be accompanied by a 
Treasury Challan in respect of the entry fee of Rs. 100 
(Rupees one hundred only ) credited to Central Government 
Account under the Major Head “ LII - -Miscellaneous," 


2 . Entries in respect of the various categories of films 
should be addressed to the authorities indicated below : 


By Order of the Court 
Y . D . DESAI, Registrar 
Supreme Court of India . 


( a ) Regional Officer, Central 

Board of Film Censors , 
91-Walkeshwar Road , 
Bombay -6 . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi- 11 , the 29th November 1963 
No. 13 / 18 / 63 -MP. - Roſerence Government of India , 
Ministry of Home Affairs (Directorate of Manpower ) Reso 
lution No . 8 / 4 / 57-MP, dated 14th October 1958 , regarding 
the Scheme for tho Constitution of a Pool for Temporary 
Placoment of Well Qualified Indian Scientists and Technolo 
gists Returging from Abroad . It has been decided that the 
Ministry of External Affairs will also be represented on tho 
Advisory Committee for the administration of the Pool 
referred to in paragraph 2 of the Scheme. 


(1) Feature films in Hindi ( In 

cluding Urdu and Hiddu 
stani), Gujarati, Marathi, 

Punjabi, Sindhi and English . 
(i ) Documentary films in all 

languages 
(W ) Children s filmos in all 

languages . 
( iv ) Educational films in 16 mm . 

in all languages ., 
(V ) Filmstrips in 35 mm . 

Featuro films in Bongali 
Oriya and Assamese . 


(6 ) Regional Officer , Central 

Board of Film Censors , 
All India Radio Building 

Eden Gardens, Calcutta - 1 . 
(c ) Regional Officer, Central 

Board of Film Censors , 
53 - Usman Road , T Nagar , 
Madras-17 . 


Feature films in 

Telugu Kannada 
Malayalam 


Tamil, 
and 


ORDER 
ORDERED that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
to : ( 1 ) All Ministries of the Government of India ; ( 2 ) tho 
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ; ( 3 ) the Minis 
try of External Affairs ( EAC Division ) ; ( 4 ) the Union 
Public Service Commission ; ( 5 ) University Grants Commis 
sion . 

ORDERED further that a copy of this Resolution bo pub 
lished in the Gazette of India . 


By Order, 
R . K , SRIVASTAVA , Deputy Secy . 


3 . An entrant will be required to submit at his cost to tho 
appropriate Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film 
Censors or to any other authority as may be specified , a 
good print of the film or filmstrip and such number of copies 
of the synopsis and songs together with an English rendering 
thereof as may bo specified in this behalf. The entrant of a 
film selected for viewing by the Central Committee will sub 
mit at his cost tho specified number of copies of the detailed 
dialogue script in English or Hindi as well as publicity mato 
rial relating thereto in addition to the print and synopsis of 
the film , 


4 . The length of a children s Alm should not exceed 3 ,400 
metres in 35 mm or 1, 360 metres in 16 mm for the purposo 
of entry for the Awards . A film entered as a children s 
film will not be eligible for entry as a feature film of vice 
verse . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

(Transport Wing) 

PORTS 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 26th November 1963 
No. 1- PDII (28 ) /63. — In modification of the late Ministry 
of Transport & Communications ( Department of Transport ) 
Resolution No . 1 -PDII ( 4 ) /61, dated tho 14th June 1961, 
reconstituting the National Harbour Board , the Government 
of India have nominated Sarvasbri B . Rajagopal Rao and 
V . B . Gandhi, Members of the Lok Sabha and Shri Biren 
Roy , Member of the Rajya Sabha , as members of the 
National Harbour Board , Their term of office will be co 
terminous with that of the other non -official members of the 
Board , 


5 . The Alms winding the Awards are likely to be exhibited 
at a Festival of Films to be organised by Government follow 
ing the function for the distribution of the Awards . 


No 7 / 49 0 / 63 - FI. In pursuance of the Resolution of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No . F . 1 
67 /62 -HII ( FP ) dated the 3rd September , 1962 , entries for 
the All India Award for the best feature film on Family 
Planning are hereby invited in respect of Indian foature Almg 


392 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 7 , 1963 /AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


( PART I - Sxc . 1 


certified for public exhibition during the calendar year 1963 
and which have cither achieved a run of 12 weeks by the 
date of the entry or been entered for the State Awards for 
Films in response to the Public Notice of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. 7 / 49 ( I ) /63 - PI dated the November 28, 1963, The entry 
in respect of a film may be made by its producer or any 
other person duly authorised by him in this behalf , free of 
charge , up to January 4 , 1964 . The entry should be made 
in duplicate in the form prescribed in the Schedulo adnexçd 
to the Rules concerning State Awards for Films notified in 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting Resolution No. 7 / 4 / 63 - FI dated the 9th 
January , 1963 and superscribed in bold letters " Entry for All 
India Award for the best feature film on Family Planning " . 

2. The entries should be addressed to the authorities indi 
cated below : 
(a ) Regional Officer , Central Films in Hindi ( including 

Board of Film Censors , Urdu and Hindustani), Gujrati 
91, Walkeshwar Road , Marathi , Punjabi, Sindhi and 
Bombay - 6 . 

English. 
(b ) Regional Officer Central Films in Bengali, Oriya and 

Board of Films Censors , Assamese , 
All India Radio Building, 

Eden Gardens, Calcutta - 1 . 
( c ) Regional Officer , Central Films in Tamil, Telugu, 

Board of Film Censors , Kanada and Malayalm , 
53, Usman Road , T " Nagar , 

Madras - - 17 . 
3. An entrant will be required to submit at his cost to 
such Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors 
or to any other authority as may be specified , a good print 
of the film and such number of copies of the synopsis and 
songs together with an English rendering thereof as may bo 
specified in this behalf , The entrant of the film selected for 
viewing by the Central Committce will submit at his cost the 
specified number of copies of the detailed dialoguc script in 
English or Hladi as well as publicity material relating thereto 
in addition to the print and synopsis of the film . 

4 . The film winning tho Award is likely to be exhibited at 
a Festival of Films to be organised by Government follow 
ing the function for the distribution of the Awards . 

5. Government will be entitled to retain, without payment 
of cost, the print of the film winning 4n Award submitted 
for viewing by the Central Committce , 

S. PADMANABHAN, Under Secy : 


ORDER 
Ordered that a copy of this Resolution be published in 
the Gazette of India for general information . 

NAWAB SINGH, Secy . 
MINISTRY OF WORKS , HOUSING & 

REHABILITATION 
(Doptt, of w . & H .) 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 26th November 1963 . 
SUBJECT : - Classification of industrial workers in tho 

Government of India Presscs. 
No. 4 ( 8 ) / 63 - PI . - The Government of India have 
decided to set up a Committee to be known as " The Com 
hittee for Categorisation of Government of India Press 
Workers ". It will consist of the following officers : 

Chairman 
( 1 ) Shrl V . Balasubrahmanyan, 

Deputy Secretary , 
Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation . 

Members 
( 2 ) Shri P. K. Sen . 

Deputy Socretary , 

Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation , 
( 3 ) Shri G . S. Bhasin , 

Under Secretary , 

Ministry of Finance . 
( 4 ) Shri B . C . Sen Gupta , 

Controller of Printing, 
Office of the Chief Controller of Printing and 

Stationery . 
Shri N . C . Sanyal , Officer on Special Duty ( Labour ) , 
Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation will act as 
Secretary to the Committee . 

2 . Terms of Reference 
The terms of reference of the Committee will be : 
( 1) to review the classification of the posts of indus 

trial workers, in the Printing Presses under the 
control of the Chief Controller of Printing and Sta 
tionery, into the categories of unskilled , scmi 
skilled , skilled , highly skilled and supervisory ; 
where necessary for thợ purpose of such review , to 
examine the qualifications, and the field of recruit 
ment / promotion laid down for cach particular post 

and to suggest modifications therein . 
3. The Committee will complete its work and submit its 
report to Government within four months from the dato of 
its formation. 

4 . The Committee will be free to lay down the method 
of its working and other procedural matters . 

ORDER 
( 1 ) ORDERED that the Resolution be communicated to all 
Ministries of the Government of India . 

(2 ) ORDERED also that the Resolution be published in tho 
Gazette of India , 

____ R. F. ISAR, Jt. Secy . 


ii ) 


RESOLUTION 
New Delhi- 1 , the 30th November 1963 
No. 25 / 9 / 63 - FI. - -- The following sentence shall be inserted 
at the end of the para 2 of the Resolution of the Government 
of India in tho Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. 25 / 1 / 62 - FI dated the 1st December , 1962 : 

" A Vice -President of any of the Associations mentioned 
at Serial No. 1 to 4 above may attend a meeting of the 
Committee , when the President of tho sald Association 
is not in a position to attend himself . " 


राष्ट्रपति सचिवालय 
नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 27 नवम्बर, 1963 
सं० 82 प्रेज । 6 3 राष्ट्रपति गोवा के निम्नांकित पुलिस अधिकारी 
को उसकी वीरता के लिये राष्ट्रपति का पुलिस तथा अग्नि शमन सेवा 
पदक प्रदान करते हैं : 

अधिकारी का नाम तथा पर 
श्री जीया राम पाटिल , 
आई पुलिस कांस्टेबल ड्राईवर, 
स्टेट रिजर्व पुलिस फ़ोर्स ग्रुप - 11, 
पंजिम , गोवा । 
सेवानों का विवरण, जिनके लिये पदक प्रदान किया गया 

18 दिसम्बर , 1961 को गोवा में की गयी कार्यवाहियों के 
मध्य श्री जीवा राम पाटिल स्टेट रिज़र्व फोर्म की जीपों की एक कम्पनी , 
जो कारवाई सेक्टर से चौथी राजपूत की सहायता के लिये पीछे चल 
रही थी , की एक जीप का ड्राईवर नियुक्त किया गया था । पर्दफन्दा 
पूल पर इन सेनाओं को एक कठिनाई का सामना करना पड़ा क्योंकि 
पुल पुर्तगालियों द्वारा नष्ट कर दिया गया था और वे भारी मार्टरों 
तथा अन्य गोलियों आदि से हमारी स्थिति को सम्भाले हुये थे । 


विपरीत परिस्थिति थी तथा जिन मार्गों पर हमारी सेना को आगे 
बढ़ना था उन पर भारी बारूद बिछा दी गयी थी तथा उनको पार 
करने का प्रयत्न करने में एक सेना की जीप नष्ट हो गयी थी । स्थिति 
से उत्पन्न खतरे की परवाइ न करते हुये श्री जीवा राम पाटिल ने 
बारूद से बिछे मार्ग पर अपनी जीप को आगे बढ़ाया और इस प्रकार 
हमारी सेनाओं का सुरक्षित मार्गदर्शन किया । 

यात्रु की गोलाबारी के सम्मुख श्री जीवा राम पाटिल ने विशिष्ट 
साहस एवं महान कर्त्तव्य परायणता का परिचय दिया । 

2 . यह पदक राष्ट्रपति पुलिस तथा अग्नि शमन सेवा पदक 
नियमावली के नियम 4 (i ) के अन्तर्गत वीरता के लिये दिया जा 
रहा है तथा फलस्वरूप नियम 5 के अन्र्तगत स्वीकृत विशेष भत्ता भी 
दिनांक 18 दिसम्बर , 1961 से दिया जायगा । 

सं० . 83 - प्रज / 63 राष्ट्रपति गुजरात के निम्नांकित पुलिस 
अधिकारी को उसकी वीरता के लिये पुलिस पदक प्रदान करते हैं : 

अधिकारी का नाम तथा पर 
श्री चिनुभाई पाशाभाई शाह , 
सब - इन्स्पैक्टर आफ पुलिस , 
डिस्ट्रिक्ट , पंचमहल , 
गुजरात । 


PARTI - SEC. I ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 7, 1963/ AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


3 93 


हये । 


अगस्त , 1962 में श्री चिनुभाई पाशाभाई शाह को स्टेट रिजर्व लपटों में से होता हुआ मकान के भीतर घुस गया तथा अपने निजी 
पुलिस फोर्स ग्रुप i, बड़ौदा की एक टुकड़ी के साथ धो कुख्यात शकुनों जीवन को खतरे में डालते हुए बच्चे को सुरक्षित बाहर ले माया । 
मानसिंह तथा उसके भाई सावजी जिनके गिरोह अनेक वर्षों से जिला ऐसा करने में पुलिस कांस्टेबल चन्दूरकर को घाव आये और धुएं से 
पंचमहल को आतंकित किये हुये थे , गिरफ्तार करने के लिये नियुक्त उसका दम घुटने लगा तथा बाहर आने पर वह बेहोश हो गया । 
किया गया था । 

पुलिस कांस्टेबल चन्दूरकर ने अपने जीवन की विल्कुल परवाह 
___ 26 अगस्त , 1962 को श्री शाह ने डाकुओं के घर , ग्राम सरोजा न करते हुए विशिष्ट वीरता तथा कर्त्तव्यपरायणता का परिचय 
से कुछ मील के अन्तर पर अपना कैम्प डाला तथा ग्रामीणों का विश्वास दिया । 
प्राप्त कर 9 सितम्बर, 1962 को वह मानसिंह को गिरफ्तार करने 2. यह पदक पुलिस पदक नियमावली के नियम 4( i ) के अन्तर्गत 
में सफल हुये । 

वीरता के लिये दिया जा रहा है तथा फलस्वरूप नियम 5 के अन्तर्गत 
3 अक्तबर, को उन्हें यह सचना प्राप्त हुई कि सावजी उस स्वीकृत विशेष भता भी दिनांक 26 मार्च, 1963 से दिया जायेगा । 
रात्रि को अपने घर पायेगा । अंधेरा होने के पश्चात् श्री शाह स्टेट सं० 85 प्रेज/ 63. - - राष्ट्रपति महाराष्ट्र के निम्नांकित पुलिस 
रिजर्व पुलिस फोर्स के एक सदस्य तथा विश्वस्त सन्देशवाहक के साथ ___ अधिकारी को उसकी वीरता के लिये पुलिस पदक प्रदान करते हैं :-- 
सावजी के मकान में छिप गये । रात्रि के लगभग 9 . 30 बजे सावजी 

अधिकारी का नाम तथा पद 
एक बन्दूक से सुसज्जित अपने मकान पर पाया तथा अपने भाई मसूरा , श्री शंकर सदाशिव तायड़े, 
जो बरामदे में लेटा हुआ था , के साथ गप -शप की । सावजी ने मसूरा सशस्त्र पुलिस कांस्टेबल पेटी नं० . 623, 
को भोजन लाने के लिये घर के अन्दर भेजा , परन्तु जब घर में बंधे 

डिस्ट्रिक्ट पुलिस फोर्स , 
पशुमों ने आवाज की तो सावजी को कुछ सन्वेह हुमा और वह बरामदे 

याना , महाराष्ट्र । 
से निकल कर मसूरा से यह पूछने लगा कि क्या मकान के अन्दर कोई 

सेवाओं का विवरण , जिनके लिये पदक प्रदान किया गया 
है । यह अनुभव करते हुये कि सावजी मकान से भाग सकता है, गोली 

26 मार्च, 1963 को थाना जिले में स्थित मुईद के मुस्लिम 
लगने की उपेक्षा करते हुये श्री शाह बाहर आ गये तथा सावजी को 
प्रात्म - समर्पण करने के लिये ललकारा । सायजी ने श्री शाह पर गोली 

मोहल्ला में भीषण आग लग गई । तेज हवा के कारण शीघ्र ही जलने 
चलाई परन्तु उन्होंने डाकू को आहत करते हुये उत्तर में अपने रिवाल्वर 

वाला इमारती सामान जलने लगा तथा कुछ ही क्षणों में एक विस्तृत 
से गोली चलाई । श्री शाह ने तब उसको पकड़ कर गिरफ्तार कर 

क्षेत्र उस आग के घेरे में आ गया । पुलिस ने तुरन्त ही सहायता की 
लिया । एक डी० बी० बी० एल० बन्दूक , बीच में एक चली तथा 

कार्यवाही शुरू कर दी । 
बिना चली गोली तथा बारूद के 15 राउण्ड डाकू के पास से प्राप्त 

इधर जब अग्निशमन और सहायता के कार्य चल रहे थे, यह 

पता लगा कि भालू राम लते , जो मकान से बाहर गया हुआ था , के 
दो कुख्यात डाकुनों के विरुद्ध की गई इन कार्यवाहियां में 

जलते हुए मकान में एक बच्चा घिर गया था । उसकी पत्नी बड़े बच्चों 

को तो बचा सकी , जिनकी आयु सात , पांच और तीन वर्ष की थी , 
श्री चिनुभाई प्राशाभाई शाह ने प्रशंसनीय उत्साह, पहल एवं उच्च 

परन्तु सबसे छोटी बच्ची जिसकी आयु दो वर्ष की थी , को बाहर 
कोटि के साहस का परिचय दिया । 

निकालने में असमर्थ रही । बच्चे का पिता आग का पता लगने पर 
2. यह पदक पुलिस पदक नियमावली के नियम 4 ( i) के अन्तर्गत 

अपने घर की ओर दौड़ा, परन्तु किसी ने भी बच्चे को बचाने के लिये 
वीरता के लिये दिया जा रहा है तथा फलस्वरूप नियम 5 के अन्तर्गत 

जलते हुये मकान में घुसने की हिम्मत न की । आर्मड पुलिस कांस्टेबल 
स्वीकृत विशेष भत्ता भी दिनांक 3 अक्तूबर , 1962 से दिया जायेगा । 

एस० एस०तावड़े जो समीप ही था , स्वयं को संकट की परवाह न करते 
दिनांक 28 नवम्बर 1963 

हये तुरन्त लपटों में से होता हुमा मकान के भीतर गया और बच्चे 
सं . 84 प्रेज/ 63 - राष्ट्रपति महाराष्ट्र के निम्नांकित पुलिस 

को बाहर निकाल लाया । 
अधिकारी को उसकी वीरता के लिये पुलिस पदक प्रदान करते हैं : 

कांस्टेबल तावड़े ने बच्चे को बचाने के लिये अपने जीवन की 

रक्षा की कोई परवाह न करते हुये विशिष्ट साहस , एवं उम्मकोटि 
अधिकारी का नाम तथा पव 

की कर्तव्यपरायणता का उदाहरण दिया । 
श्री मनोहर मनन्त चन्दूरकर , 

2. यह पदक पुलिस पदक नियमावली के नियम 4 ( i) के अन्तर्गत 
निशस्त्र कांस्टेबल पेटी नं0 2089, 

वीरता के लिये दिया जा रहा है । तथा फलस्वरूप नियम 5 के अन्तर्गत 
डिस्ट्रिक्ट पुलिस फोर्स, 

स्वीकृत विशेष भत्ता भी दिनांक 26 मार्च, 1963 से दिया जायेगा । 
पाना , महाराष्ट्र । 

( सुविमल क्स ) 
सेवाओं का विवरण, जिनके लिये पवफ प्रदान किया गया 

राष्ट्रपति का सचिव 
26 मार्च, 1963 को थाना जिले में स्थित मुर्बद के मुस्लिम 

अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय व्यापार मंत्रालय 
मोहल्ला में भीषण आग लग गई । तेज हवा के कारण शीघ्र ही जलने 

नई दिल्ली, 27 सितम्बर , 1963 
वाला इमारती सामान जलने लगा तथा कुछ ही क्षणों में एक विस्तृत 

संकल्प 
क्षेत्र उस भाग के घेरे में भा गया । पुलिस ने तुरन्त ही सहायता की 

टैरिफ 
कार्यवाही शुरू कर दी । 

सं० 7 ( 2 ) टेर/ 63 -- टैरिफ प्रायोग ने टैरिफ आयोग 
जब अग्निशमन और सहायता के कार्य चल रहे थे, यह मालूम 

अधिनियम , 1951 ( 1951 का 50 ) की धारा 11 ( 30 ) और 
हमा कि श्री सदाशिव भिाऊ अल्शी जो उस समय मकान से बाहर 13 के अधीन अपने द्वारा की गई जांच के आधार पर इंजीनियरी 
था , के जलते हुए मकान में एक पालने में डेढ़ वर्ष की प्रायु का एक इस्पात -रेती उद्योग का संरक्षण जारी रखने के बारे में अपनी 
लएका रह गया था । उस स्थान पर खड़े लोगों में से किसी को भी रिपोर्ट दे दी है । उसकी सिफारिशें निम्न है : -- 
उस बच्चे को बचाने के लिये जलते हुये मकान में जाने का साहस नहीं 

( 1 ) इंजीनियरी इस्पात -रेती उद्योग को जो संरक्षण मनुवत 
हुा । यह सुनकर पुलिस कांस्टेबल एम० ए० चन्दूरकर ने जो माग किया गया था उस संरक्षण की वर्तमान अवधि के, जो 31 दिसम्बर , 
बुझाने में सहायता कर रहा था , कपड़ों को आग लगने के खतरे को 1963 को समाप्त होती है , अवसान के पश्चात् जारी रखने की 
कम करने के लिये तुरन्त स्वयं को पानी में तर कर लिया एवं भाग की आवश्यकता नहीं है । 


394 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 7, 1963 /AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


[ PART I - SEC. 1 


( 2 ) मोटी और सूक्ष्म रेतियों का , जिन पर सारतः उच्चतर 
राजस्व शुल्क लगता है , विनिर्माण इस्पाती -रेतियों के स्वदेशी 
उत्पादकों में से कुछ के द्वारा पहले से ही हाथ में ले लिया गया है और 
उत्पादन के विविधीकरण की जो प्राकृतिक प्रवृत्ति होती है उसके 
कारण अन्यों के द्वारा भी इनका उत्पादन हाथ में लिया जाने वाला 
है । सरकार को चाहिये कि इन उत्पादकों को शुल्क संरक्षण से भिन्न 
प्रकार की सहायता दे जिससे वे विस्तार कार्यक्रमों को पूरा करने 
के योग्य हो सकें । 

( 3 ) उद्योग और व्यापार के मार्ग-वर्शन के लिये सूक्ष्म 
रेतियों के लिये प्राविधिक परिभाषा देने का काम सरकार को अपने 
हाथ में लेना चाहिये । 

( 4 ) इस बात को ध्यान में रखते हुए कि यह संभाव्यता है 
कि मांग प्रतिष्ठापित सामर्थ्य के द्वारा प्राप्य सम्भरण से मागे 
बढ़ जाये प्राविधिक विकास विभाग को चाहिये कि वह उत्पादन 
में वृद्धि की गति त्वरित करने के लिए सामयिक उपाय , यदि 
प्रावश्यक हो तो प्रक्रमिक प्रोग्राम तैयार करके जौन बैकर और 
अन्य वैसे ही उत्पादकों को संतुलन-साज- सामान उपाप्त करने के 
लिये अनुज्ञा देकर तथा कच्चे माल को भी अधिकतर आबंटित 
करके करने चाहिये । 

( 5 ) विस्तार की उन स्कीमों को अधियान मिलना चाहिये 
जिनसे कम से कम लागत से शीघ्रातिशीघ्र उद्योग द्वारा किये जाने 
वाले उत्पादन में परिवर्धन होने लगे । 

( 6 ) प्राणकल विदेशी विनियम के बारे में जो संगी की दशा 
है उसे और भट्टियों के आयात पर प्रतिबन्ध को दृष्टि में रखकर 
प्राविधिक विकास विभाग को , यह चाहिये कि वह इस्पात- रेतियों 
के उत्पादकों की सहायता उन समस्याओं के सुलझाने में करे जो 
भट्टी विनिर्माताओं के बीच है । 

( 7 ) निर्यात की संभाव्य क्षमता को विकसित करने के लिये 
यह प्रावश्यक है कि अधिकतर अद्यतन मशीनों का पायात करने के 
लिये सुविधायें और उदार प्रोत्साहन दिया जाये । 

( 8) इस दृष्टि से कि अन्य उत्पादकों की आशंकाएं दूर 
की जा सके , इस बात की आवश्यकता पड़ सकती है कि प्राधिकारी 
इसके लिये पक्का प्रबन्ध करें कि हरबंस लाल मलहोत्रा एंड सन्स , 
जिन्हें रेतियों के लिये इस्पात खण्डों की ढलाई की अनुशप्ति दी गयी 
है , अपने उत्पादन में उस गुणिता स्तर को रखें जो उसके लिये 
अपेक्षित है और उसकी कीमत तथा अन्य उत्पादकों को उसके । 
वितरण के विषयों में एकाधिकारिक प्रवृत्तियां न अपनाएं । 

( 9 ) इस्पाती -रेतियों के विनिर्माताओं को चाहिये कि इस 
वष्टि से कि स्वदेशी पेषण चक्रियों का अधिक उपयोग किया जाये 
वे संक्रिया प्रविधि में प्राशु उपबन्ध करने में कोई कसर न रखें 
पौर जो उत्पादक पेषण चक्रिया बनाते हैं उन्हें चाहिये कि उत्पादन 
के विविधीकरण के लिये और उसकी गुणिता के सुधार के लिये भी 
कदम उठायें । 

2. सरकार ने सिफारिश ( 1 ) मान ली है तथा इंजीनियरी 
इस्पात- रेती उद्योग का संरक्षण प्रथम जनवरी 1964 से समाप्त 
करने के लिये विधान सम्यक् अनुक्रम में लाया जायेगा । 

3. सरकार ने सिफारिश ( 2 ) से लेकर सिफारिश ( 7 ) 
तक सब सिफारिशों को ध्यान में रख लिया है और उन्हें कार्यान्वित 
करने के लिय यावत्रशक्य कदम उठाये जायेंगे । 

4. सिफारिश ( 8 ) को भी सरकार ने ध्यान में रख लिया है 
और उसको यावत्शक्य कार्यान्वित करने के लिये कदम उठाये 
जायेंगे । इस सिफारिश की भोर हरबंस लाल मलहोत्रा एण्ड सन्स का 
ध्यान भी दिला दिया गया है । 

5. सिफारिश ( 9) की मोर इस्पात- रेती विनिर्मातामों 
मोर पेषण पक्रियों के उत्पादकों का ध्यान दिलाया जाता है । 


मावेश 
आदेश दिया जाता है कि यह संकल्प भारत के गजट में प्रकाशित 
किया जाये और इसकी प्रतिलिपि समस्त सम्पृक्त व्यक्तियों को 
भेजी जाये । 

सं० 8 ( 1 )- टेर/ 63 - टैरिफ आयोग ने , टैरिफ आयोग 
अधिनियम , 1951 की धारा 11 ( 30 ) और 13 के अधीन 
अपने द्वारा की गई जांच के आधार पर , पाटोमोबाइल स्पार्क प्लग 
उद्योग का संरक्षण जारी रखने के बारे में अपनी रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 

( 1 ) पाटोमोबाइल स्पार्क प्लग उद्योग का संरक्षण दो वर्ष 
की अतिरिक्त कालावधि के लिये , अर्थात् 31 दिसम्बर, 1965 
तक बढ़ा दिया जाना चाहिये । किन्तु संरक्षण के लिये प्रावश्यक शुल्क 
की दर 77 . 5 प्रतिशत मूल्यानुसार ( स्तर ) और 70 प्रतिशत 
मूल्यानुसार ( अधिमानपूर्ण ) होनी चाहिये । 

( 2) पाटोमोबाइल स्पार्क प्लगों की खुदरा विक्रय कीमतें 
घटाई जानी चाहिये । 

( 3) स्पार्क प्लगों की मांग , जिसकी भविष्य में वृद्धि भी हो 
सकती है , वर्तमान प्रतिष्ठापित सामर्थ्य से अधिक है । क्योंकि यह 
सामर्थ्य विद्यमान इकाइयों द्वारा अधिक अतिरिक्त खर्चे के बिना 
बढ़ाया जा सकता है और यह उद्योग ऐसा है जिसमें बड़े पैमाने पर 
उत्पादन करने से किफायत हो सकती है , अतः वर्तमान उत्पादकों 
को भावी विस्तार के प्रसंग में पूर्ववर्तिता देना वांछनीय है । 

( 4 ) क्योंकि स्पार्क प्लग, पाटोमोबाइल उद्योग में एक 
अत्यावश्यक अवयव है, अतः यह विचार है कि मिश्र इस्पात बनाने 
वाली किसी इकाई के उत्पादन कार्यक्रम में , उद्योग द्वारा अपेक्षित 
चमकदार खिंची हुई मुक्त कटनशील इस्पात की छड़ों को उच्च 
पूर्ववर्तिता दी जानी चाहिये । 

( 5 ) दोनों वर्तमान -उत्पादकों को इन्सुलेटरों का विनिर्माण 
करने की अनुज्ञा देने के सम्पूर्ण प्रश्न पर , ऐसी व्यवस्था के 
परिणामस्वरूप होने वाली व पूंजी विनिधान को निष्फल बनाने 
वाली प्रचुर अधिशेषी सामर्थ्य को ध्यान में रखते हुए, सम्पृक्त 
प्राधिकारियों द्वारा प्राग पुनर्विलोकन किया जाये । 

( 6) क्योंकि कच्चा माल और यन्त्र के लिये आवश्यक चीजों 
का संयक्त राज्य अमरीका से आयात करने के लिये उद्योग को 
दिये गये विकल्प में यह अन्तर्वसित है कि खर्चे में बहुत अधिक 
वृद्धि हो जाये अतः इस संरक्षित उद्योग द्वारा मांगी गई 
सुविधाओं पर अनुग्रह दृष्टि विचार किया जाये । 

( 7 ) उद्योग के विकासार्थ निर्यात के लिये पर्याप्त प्रोत्साहन 
. देने के सम्बन्ध म औरविदेशी सहयोगियों के साथ किये गये करारों 
म यथोचित रूपभेद करने के प्रश्न पर , प्राधिकारियों का ध्यान 
जाना चाहिये । 

( 8 ) स्पाक प्लग विनिर्माताओं को अवयव विनिर्मातामों 
के साथ स्वदेशी सामथ्य स्थापित करने में अथवा उनका उत्पादन 
अपन स्वयं के ही कारखानों म करने में सहायता प्रदत की जानी 
चाहिये । 

( 9) इस बात को सुनिश्चित करने के लिये कदम उठाये जाने 
चाहिय कि स्पाक प्लग इन्सुलेटरों के विनिर्माण के लिये अपेक्षित 
शुद्धता की कलसाइन्ड अलूमीना का उपबन्ध करने के लिये 
अलमीनियम के स्वदेशी निर्माताओं पर, दबाव डाला जाये । 

2. सरकार न सिफारिश ( 1 ) मान ली है और मावश्यक 
विधान संसद् म सम्यक अनुक्रम में लाया जायेगा । टैरिफ प्रायोग 
ने संरक्षण शुल्क म घटती करन की जो सिफारिश की है , वह 
भारतीय टैरिफ अधिनियम , 1934 की धारा 4 ( 1) के अधीन 
पथक् प्रचारित अधिसूचना के द्वारा अद्यतन प्रभाव के साथ 
प्रवर्तन म लाई जा रही है । 


PART I - SEC." 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 7, 1963 / AGRAHAYANA 16 , 1885 


395 


। 


- 


- 


- 


3. सम्भाव्य विस्तार तक यथोचित कार्यवाही करने के लिये 
सरकार ने ( 2 ) से लेकर ( 7 ) तक की सिफारिशों को ध्यान में 
रख लिया है । 

4. सिफारिश ( 8 ) और ( 9 ) को सरकार ने ध्यान में रख 
लिया है और सम्पृक्त विनिर्माताओं का ध्यान भी इन सिफारिशों 
की पोर दिलाया जाता है । 

प्रावेश 
मादेश दिया जाता है कि संकल्प की प्रतिलिपि समस्त सम्पृक्त 
व्यक्तियों के पास भेजी आये और यह कि इसे भारत के गजट 
में प्रकाशित किया जाये । 

अधिसूचना 

टैरिफ 
सं० 8 ( 1 ) टेर/ 63 — यतः भारत सरकार का , सम्यक जांच 
के पश्चात् , यह समाधान हो गया है कि भारतीय टैरिफ अधिनियम , 
1934 ( 1934 का 32 ) की प्रथम अनुसूची के अधीन स्पार्किंग 
प्लग ब उनके भागों की बाबत वह प्रभार्य शुल्क जो उक्त अनुसूची 
की मन संख्या 75 ( 16 ) में उल्लिखित है और जिसे उसके ततीय 
स्तम्भ में संरक्षा शुल्क कहा गया है , भारत में विनिर्मित वैसे ही 
पदार्थों के सम्बन्ध में दिये जाने के लिये तद्वारा प्राशयित संरक्षण 
प्राप्त करने की ष्टि से अत्यधिक हो गया था , 

अतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 
द्वारा 27 सितम्बर, 1963 से उक्त पदार्थों पर सीमा शुल्क इस 
प्रकार घटाती है कि उन पर प्रभार्य शुल्क उक्त तारीख से 773 
प्रतिशत मूल्यानुसार होगा । 

सी० एस० रामचन्द्रन 
संयुक्त साधव 


( 2 ) सभी भाषाओं की डाक्यूमैंट्री 

फ़िल्में । 
( 3) सभी भाषाओं की बाल 

फ़िल्में । 
( 4 ) सभी भाषाओं की 16 

मिलीमीटर की शक्षणिक 

फ़िल्में । 
( 5 ) 35 मिलीमीटर की फ़िल्म 

स्ट्रिपें । 
( ख ) प्रादेशिक अफ़सर, बंगला, उड़िया और असमिया 

केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म की फ़ीचर फ़िल्में । 
सेंसर बोर्ड , 53 
आकाशवाणी बि 
लिंडग , एडन गार्डन , 

कलकत्ता - 1 । 
( ग ) प्रादेशिक अफ़सर, तमिल , तेलुगु , कन्नड़ और मल 

केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म यालम की फ़ीचर फ़िल्में । 
सेंसर बोर्ड, 53 
उसमान रोड , 
त्यागराय नगर , 

मद्रास -17 । 
3. प्रत्येक प्रवेषक को केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म सेंसर बोर्ड के उपयुक्त 
प्रादेशिक अफ़सर या अन्य निर्धारित किए गए अधिकारी को अपने 
खर्च पर फ़िल्म या फ़िल्म -स्ट्रिप की अच्छी प्रिंट और अंग्रेजी अनुवाद 
के साथ रूपरेखा और गानों की उतनी प्रतियां भेजनी होंगी जितनी 
इस सम्बन्ध में निर्धारित की जायेंगी । केन्द्रीय समिति के देखने 
के लिए चुनी गई फ़िल्म के प्रवेषक को अपने खर्च पर फ़िल्म की प्रिंट 
और रूपरेखा के अतिरिक्त अंग्रेजी या हिन्दी में ,निर्धारित संख्या में , 
विस्तृत कथोपकथन की स्क्रिप्ट की प्रतियां तथा उससे सम्बन्धित 
प्रचार सामग्री भी भेजनी होगी । 

4. पुरस्कार के लिए भजे जाने वाली बाल फ़िल्म की लम्बाई 
35 मिलीमीटर में 3, 400 मीटर या 16 मिलीमीटर में 1 , 360 
मीटर से अधिक नहीं होनी चाहिए । जो फ़िल्म बाल फ़िल्म के रूप 
में भेजी जायेगी वह फ़ीचर फ़िल्म के रूप में और जो फ़ीचर फ़िल्म 
के रूप में भेजी जायेगी वह बाल फिल्म के रूप में नहीं भेजी जा सकेगी । 

5. पुरस्कार जीतने वाली फ़िल्में सम्भवतः पुरस्कार वितरण 
समारोह के बाद सरकार द्वारा प्रायोजित किये जाने वाले फ़िल्म 
समारोह में प्रदर्शित की जायेंगी । 

संख्या 7/ 49/ ( II ) / 63- एफ० पाई ० – भारत सरकार, 
स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय के संकल्प संख्या एफ० 1- 67/ 62-एच -2 ( एफ 
पी ) , दिनांक 3 सितम्बर, 1962 के अनुसार , परिवार नियोजन पर 
सर्वोत्तम फ़ीचर फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल भारतीय पुरस्कार के लिए 
प्रविष्टियां आमंत्रित है । इस पुरस्कार के लिए प्रविष्टियां उन्हीं 
भारतीय फ़ीचर फ़िल्मों के सम्बन्ध में भेजी जा सकगी जो सार्वजनिक 
प्रदर्शन के लिए 1963 के कैलेंडर वर्ष में प्रमाणित की गई हों और 
जो या तो प्रविष्टि की तारीख तक 12 सप्ताह, चल पकी हो या 
भारत सरकार सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय की सार्वजनिक 
सूचना संख्या 7 / 49/ ( I )/ 63- एफ ( माई ), दिनांक 28 नवम्बर , 
1963 के उत्तर में फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कार के लिए 
प्रविष्ट हुई हों । किसी फ़िल्म के बारे में प्रविष्टि उसके निर्माता या 
उस द्वारा विधिवत् अधिकृत किसी अन्य व्यक्ति द्वारा निशुल्क 
4 जनवरी, 1964 तक भेज दी जाए । प्रविष्टि भारत सरकार , 
सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय के संकल्प संख्या 7/ 4/ 6 3-एफ ( माई ) , 
दिनांक 9 जनवरी , 1963 में अधिसूचित फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय 
पुरस्कार सम्बन्धी नियमावली से संलग्न अनुसूची में दिए गए फार्म 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 
(फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कार ) 

सार्वजनिक सूचना 
नई दिल्ली -1, दिनांक 28 नवम्बर, 1963 
संख्या 7 / 49/ (I ) / 63-एफ . माई. ---भारत सरकार , सूचना 
और प्रसारण मंत्रालय के संकल्प संख्या 7 / 4 / 63-एफ .( आई ), 
दिनांक 9 जनवरी , 1963 में अधिसूचित फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय 
पुरस्कार सम्बन्धी नियमावली के नियम 8 के अनुसार , 
फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कारार्थ प्रविष्टियां भामंत्रित 
की जाती है । प्रविष्टियां 1963 के कैलेंडर वर्ष में सार्व 
जनिक प्रदर्शन के लिए प्रमाणित की गई भारतीय फ़िल्मों 
तथा उक्त वर्ष में बनाई गई फ़िल्म -स्ट्रिपों के सम्बन्ध में ही भेजी 
जा सकेंगी । किसी फ़िल्म या फ़िल्म- स्ट्रिप के बारे में प्रविष्टि 
उसके निर्माता या उस द्वारा विधिवत् अधिकृत किसी अन्य व्यक्ति 
द्वारा 4 जनवरी, 1964 तक भेज दी जाए । प्रविष्टि उपरि 
निर्दिष्ट नियमावली से संलग्न अनुसूची में दिये गये फार्म में , दो 
प्रतियों में , भेजनी चाहिए । फ़ीचर फ़िल्म विषयक प्रविष्टि फ़ार्मों 
के साथ मुख्य शीर्षक " LII -मिसलेनिअस के अन्तर्गत केन्द्रीय सरकार 
के खाते में जमा करवाई गई 100 रुपये ( केवल सौ रुपये ) की 
प्रविष्टि फ़ीस सम्बन्धी ट्रेजरी रसीद भी भेजनी चाहिए । 

2. विभिन्न प्रकार की फ़िल्मों के बारे में प्रविष्टिया नीचे दिये 
गए अधिकारियों के पास भेजनी चाहिएं : 
( क ) प्रादेशिक अफसर , ( 1 ) हिन्दी ( उर्दू और हिंदु 

केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म स्तानी सहित ) , गुजराती , 
सेंसर बोर्ड , 91 मराठी, पंजाबी , सिंधी 
वाल्केश्वर रोड, पौर अंग्रेजी की फ़ीचर 
बम्बई- 6 । 

फ़िल्में । 


396 

THE GAZETTE OFINDIA, DECEMBER 7 , 1963/ AGRAHAYANA 16, 1885 [ PART I - Sec. 1 
में , दो प्रतियों में , भेजनी चाहिए और ऊपर मोटे अक्षरों में परिवार अतिरिक्त अंग्रेजी या हिन्दी में , निर्धारित संख्या में , विस्तृत 
नियोजन पर सर्वोत्तम फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल भारतीय पुरस्कारार्थ कथोपकथन की स्क्रिप्ट की प्रतियां एवं उस से सम्बन्धित प्रचार 
प्रविष्टि " लिखा होना चाहिए । 

सामग्री भी भेजनी होगी । 
2 . प्रविष्टियां नीचे दिए गए अधिकारियो के पास भेजनी 4 . पुरस्कार जीतने वाली फ़िल्म सम्भवतः पुरस्कार वितरण 
पाहिएं :- --- 

ममारोह के पश्चात् सरकार द्वारा आयोजित किए जाने वाले फ़िल्म 

समारोह में प्रदर्शित की जायेगी । 
( क ) प्रादेशिक अफ़सर, हिन्दी , ( उर्दू और हिन्दुस्तानी 
केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म, सहित ) गुजराती , मराठी , 

__ 5. सरकार को यह अधिकार होगा कि वह केन्द्रीय समिति 
सेंसर बोर्ड, 91 पंजाबी , सिंघी और अंग्रेजी की 

के देखने के लिए भेजी गई पुरस्कार जीतने वाली फ़िल्म की प्रिंट 
वाल्केश्वर रोड , फ़िल्में । 

बिना किसी मूल्य के अपने पास रख सके । 
बम्बई- 6 । 

एस० पद्मनाभन 
( ख ) प्रादेशिक अफ़सर, बगंला, उडिया और असमिया की 

अबर सचिव 
केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म फ़िल्में । 
सेंसर बोर्ड , प्रा 

संकल्प 
काशवाणी बिल्डिंग 

नई दिल्ली -1, दिनांक 30 नवम्बर, 1963 
एडन गार्डन , 
कलकत्ता - 1 । 

सं० 25/ 9/ 63- एफ० माई० - -- भारत सरकार, सूचना 
( ग ) प्रादेशिक अफ़सर , तमिल , तेलुगु, कन्नड़ और मलया 

और प्रसारण मंत्रालय के संकल्प संख्या 25/ 1 / 62-एफ ( आई ) , दिनांक 
केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म लम की फ़िल्मे । 

1 दिसम्बर , 1962 के पैरा 2 के अन्त में निम्नलिखित वाक्य जोड़ 
सेंसर बोर्ड, 53, 

दिया जाए : 
उसमान रोड , 

" जब क्रम संख्या 1 से 4 तक में दी गई किसी संस्था 
त्यागराय नगर , 

का अध्यक्ष समिति की बैठक में स्वयं उपस्थित होने 

की स्थिति में न हो , तो उस संस्था का उपाध्यक्ष 
मद्रास - 17 । 
3. प्रत्येक प्रवेषक को निर्धारित किए गए केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म 

समिति की बैठक में उपस्थित हो सकता है । " 
सेंसर बोर्ड के प्रादेशिक अफ़सर या अन्य अधिकारी को अपने खर्च 

मावेश 
पर, फ़िल्म की अच्छी प्रिंट और अंग्रेजी अनुवाद के साथ रूपरेखा 

आदेश दिया जाता है कि यह संकल्प सर्वसाधारण के सूचनार्थ 
एवं गीतों की उतनी प्रतियां भेजनी होंगी जितनी इस सम्बन्ध में भारत के राजपत्र में प्रकाशित किया जाए । 
निर्धारित की जायेंगी । केन्द्रीय समिति के देखने के लिए चुनी गई 

नवाब सिंह, 
फ़िल्म के प्रवेषक को अपने खर्चे पर फ़िल्म की प्रिंट और रूपरेखा के 

सचिव 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
FARIDABAD AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUPLICATIONS, DELIL 


PRESS 
1963 . 


