जिस्ट्री स . गी : 122 


REGISTERER No. D . 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार स प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


सं . 44 ] 
No. 44] 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, नवम्बर 2, 1968/ फातिक 11, 1890 
NEW DELHI , SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1968 KARTIKA II , 1890 


- 


- 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Soparate poging is given to this part in order that it may be filed 

ma separate compilation . 


भाग II - - खण्ड 3 ---उपखण्ड (ii ) 

PART II - Section 3 - Sub -section (ii ) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक प्रादेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ILECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

Nchi Delhi, the 15th October 1968 
S . O . 3808. - In CLICINc of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 1 ) of section 13A of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1950 , the Election Commission, in consultation with 
the Government ut lurura hereby nominates Shri C .P . K . Erady, Secretary to the Govern 
ment of Tripura , ds the Chief Electoral Officer for the Union Territory of Tripura from 
the afternoon of the 14th August, 1968 to the afternoon of the 11th September , 1968 vice 
Shri N . G . Choudhury tiansfericd . 

INo. 154/ 20 / 68 ( I ).] 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1968 
so 3809 .- -In Pisuance of sub-lule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Registration of Electors 
Rules, 1960, the Election Commission hereby directs that the following amendment shall be 
Imade in its notification No. 429 / 66( 2 ) / J & K / HP, dated the 10th December , 1966 , namely . 
For the work and figures frule 21 " the words, figures and letter frule 21 or rule 21A " 
shall be substituted . 

JNo. 429 / 68 (2 ) / J & K / HP .] 


( 4853 ) 


4854 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART l . 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3810 . - -In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1) of rule 23 of the Registration of Electors 
Rules, 1960 , the Election Commission hereby directs that the following amendment shall 
be made in its notification No . 23 /DN /65 , dated llic 24th March , 1966 , namely : 
For the word and figures " rule 21" the words. figures and letter " rule 21 or rule 
21A " shall be substituted . 

[No. 429 /68 (2 )/DN .) 
S . O . 3811. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1) of section 134 
of the Representution of the People Act, 1950 , the Election Cominission , in consultation 
with thic Government of Pondicherry hercby nominates Shri P . N , Subramanian , Secretary 
to the Goveronicnt of Pondicherry, Department of Finance, as the Chief Electoral Officer 
for the Union Territory of Pondicherry, from the date lic takes over charge and until 
furtiser orders rice Shri G . Gopalakrislinan . 

[No. 154/21 /68.] 
New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 
S . O . 3812. - In pursuance of clause (b ) of sub - section (2 ) of Section 116 - C of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes for 
gencral information the Judgment of the Supreme Court of India , delivered on the 8th 
August. 1968 in Civil Appeal No . 1895 of 1967 filed by Shri Sonchand Manubhui Solanki 
against the Judgment and Order dated the 9th November, 1967 of the High Court of 
Gujarat at Ahmedabad . in Election Petition No . 23 of 1967 , 


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No. 1895 ( NCE ) OF 1967 
Somchand Manubhai Solanki - Appellant. 

Versus 
Karsondas Ukabhai Parmar and another —- Respondents . 

JUDGMENT 
MITTER , J . - - This is an appeal by a returned candidate from an order of the Gujarat 
High Court sctting aside his election on an election petition filed in respect of a Parlia 
mentary constituency being No . 10 ----Gandhi Nagar Parliamentary Constituency reserved 
for Scheduled Castes . There were originally four candidates contesting the election but 
one withdrew from the contest leaving ree on the field . The poll was taken on February 
21, 1967 and the result was declared on February 24 , 1967 . In the said election the appcl 
Jant ( the returned candidate ) obtained 1 , 56 , 146 votes as against the election petitioner s 
1 ,26 ,208 and the second respondent s 50 ,702 votes . 

In the election petition filed on 10th April, 1967 various grounds were set up for 
declaring the election of the appellant void . This appeal is concerned only with grounds 
Vos . 4 and 5 . Ground No. 4 was to the effect that the respondent No. 1 , his agents and 
other persons with his consent had committed a corrupt practice of obtaining or procuring 
or attempting to obtain or procure assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
first respondent s election from persons in the service of the Government and belonging to 
the category of Gazetted officers , members of the police force, etc . No less than five 
categories of such persons were specified and several persons belonging to such categories 
were named in sub -paras ( a ) to ( c ) of ground No . 4 . But the only one with whom the 
learned trial Judge had to dçal was one Jethelal B . Jadhay said to be serving in the Income 
tax Department of the Government of India . The learned Judge did not accept the 
evidence with regard to the assistance alleged to have been rendered by Jadhav and the 
point has not been pressed before is in this appeal by counsel for the election petitioner. 


The fifth ground in the petition was to the effect that " the first respondent and his agents , 
with the consent of respondent No. 1 , had published false statements which they believed 
to be false and did not belicve to be truc in relation to the personal character , conduct and 
the candidature of the petitioner with a reasonable calculation to prejudice the prospect of 
the petitioner s election ." The main charge under this head was the free distribution 
throughout the consitucncy by the first respondent and his workers with his consent of the 
issue of the 10th February 1967 of a fortnightly paper named " Tamanna " . This paper 
wus being published and edited by one Jayantibhai Subodh described in the petition as 
actively working for the first respondent in the election and the person mainly responsible 


Suc. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4855 


S 


for the propaganda on his behalf. Subodh was also said to have been one of the founders 
of the Backward Voters Council which had espoused the cause of the first respondent in 
the election . The publication of this issue by Subodh was said to have been done with 
the consent of the first respondent. A translation of a portion of the issue of " Tamanna " 
dated 10th February . 1967 is to be found in the petition . It is not necessary to reproduce 
the same because there can be no doubt that the allegations made in that issue did reflect 
seriously on the conduct and character of the petitioner . It was even stated in that issue 
of the paper that the petitioner who was it candidate of the Republican Party was struggling 
10 get votcs by going to the villages and offering sweetmeat packets to Harijan voters, Mr. 
Sen , learned counsel for the appellant trici to convince (is though rather half-heartedly , 
that the reference to the conduct of the petitioner in the said issue of " Tamanna " were not 
made literally but only allegorically . We find ourselves unable to take that view as there 
were direct references to the petitioner trying to bargain with the Swatantra Party And 
attempting to get onc Hamesh Parmar to withdraw his candidaturc by offcring money to 
him and pawning the so -called Republican Party with Shri Wadilal Mehta , the seth of the 
Swatantra Party . 

The question which the learned Judge had to deal with at the trial of the election peti 
tion and which is before us now is , whether the first respondent was responsible for the 
publication of the issue of the “ Tamanna" dated 10th February 1967 , and secondly , 
whether eveīl if he was not responsible for such publication , he was responsible for the 
distribution of that issue to various persons at different places in Gandhi Nagar Constitu 
ency either hy himself or through his agents and workers with his consent to the detriment 
of the petitioner . Quite a large number of witnesses werc cxamined before the trial Judge 
but only four witnesses were rclied on for the purpose of showing that there had been 
publication of falsc statements regarding the petitioner by the distribution of the impugned 
issue of the Tananna at different places and we proposc to examine the evidence adduced 
by these witnesses in the order in which they were examined . 

The first witness was onc Chhanbhai ( P . W .4 ) of Dehgam . He said that the first 
respondent had come to Dehgam for his election campaign . About six or seven days 
before the date of the poll, the witness had gonc from Debgam to Nandol village ( 3 miles 
from Dehgam ) to attend a meeting of caste panch attended by about 1000 people . The 
first respondent and ijs workers including one Jayantibhai Subodh and one Vithalbhai 
were there and they were distributing handbills and newspapers . He could not recollect 
the name of the newspaper but said that he would be able to identify it if it was shown to 
him . On being shown a copy of the issue of " Tamanna " dated 10th February 1967, he said 
that copies of this particular issue had been distributed to several persons at thatmeeting in 
Mandol. In cross -examination , he admitted that he did not remember what was written 
ir that particular copy of the newspaper . When he was shown a copy of the issue dated 
25th December 1966 , he said that he was not in a position to say whether this was the issue 
which he had seen at Nando ). Although he did not need spectacles when he gave evidence 
in chief he had to use the same during his cross - examination and the trial Judyc has 
commented rather strongly about the use of the spectacles by the witness as going to show 
that he was not a witness of truth . The witness also said that he talked to Naranbhai 
Vora , the clection agent of the petitioner ( P . W . 19 ) about the distribution of the newspapers 
at Nandol. According to him Haranbhai had come to Dehgam about two or three days 
after the caste Panch meeting at Nandol and it was then that he had said Naranbhai as to 
what had happened at that meeting. 

The second witness in this connection was onę Jivanlal ( P . W . 8 ) who stated in his 
examination - in - chicf that he resided at Vijaynagar Housing Society near Kankarla , 
Ahmedabad . His evidence was that about six or seven days before the polling day, the 
first respondent, one Jethalal Jadav and Jayantibhai Subodh had come to his housing 
society , accompanied by about forty other persons. He immediately corrected himself by 
saying that it was the first respondent who had come with Javantilal Subodh and Jethalal 
Jadav and that about forty persons had attended the meeting which was held after their 
arrival. It was Jayantibhai Subodh who had come to his house to call him for the meeting . 
According to him , the meeting was first addressed by Jayantibhai Subodh , then Jethalal 
Jaday and lastly by the first respondent, and after the speeches were over , a booklet 
published by the Backward Classes Voters s Council and some issues of the journal 

Tamanna" werc distributed amongst those who had attended the meeting. He identified 
the booklet which was shown to bim Ex . G . A copy of the Tamanna being shown to 
him , he identified the same and said that he had received a copy of the newspaper from 
the first respondent. He did not, however , remember whether the speakers at the mecting 
had said anything about the petitioner. In his cross - cxamination , the first question he was 
asked was about the shift duty in which he was engaged at the Rohit Mills , Ahmedabad 
and his answer was that on the day of the meeting he was working in the day shift which 
commenced from 7 A . M , and lasted till 3 . 30 P . M . He did not recollect exactly the date on 
which the meeting was held but he remenbered having spoken to Naranbhai Vora ubout 


4856 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II -- 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


the mceting about two days prior to the date of the poll telling him that copies of “ Tamanna" 
had been distributed after the speeches. He had not shown any copy of the Tamanon to 
Naranbhai nor did he recollect whether he had told Naranbhai about the contents of the 
different articles in that issue . His cross -examination goes to show as if he had talked to 
Nuranbhai not in his house but at some other place. His definite evidence was that 
Naranbhai did ask thc witness to show him the copy of the issue of Tamanna but he did 
not show that copy to him . He did not have a copy of the Tamanna on the datę when 
he came to give his evidence but ho remembered that he had brought home a copy of the 
* Tamanna from the meeting. There were about 300 houses in Vijaynagar Society and 
copies of the Tamanna bad been distributed to several people residing there . He was 
positive that a copy of the issue had been given to each person attending the meeting. He 
was not in a position to say whether there was any meeting in Vijaynagar Society presided 
over by Khandubhai Desai nor did he recollect any moeting of the Congress Party other 
than the one spoken to by him . He was sure that it was the first respondent who had 
distributed copies of the Tamanna to overyone at the meeting. 

The next witness was one Nadjibhai ( P . W . 9 ) who is a resident of Dehgam . According 
to his evidence, the first respondent had carried on election propaganda in his village at 
the time of the last general election and he used to go to that village along with Jayanti 
bhai Subodh and two of four other persons. He saw the first respondent for the first time 
in connection with the election campaign about 15 or 20 days before the date of the poll , 
but the first respondent had visited the village afterwards. On one occasion during the 
election campaign while he was passing by the village library, he was called in by Jayanti 
bhai Subodh who was sitting inside the library in company of other persons and askoc to 
give his name and his place of work . On the witness answering, Jayantibhai told l in 
that he should vote for the Congress party candidato and handed over to him an issue of 
the copy of Tamanna dated 10th February 1967. In cross -examination the witness said 
that he used to know Jayantibhai Subodh even prior to the date of the abovo incident. He 
also said that Naranbhai Vora had come to Dehgam on the third day after Jayantibhai s 
above visit to Dehgam and after his talk with him ho had hånded over his copy of the 
issue of Tamanna to Naranbhai. The witness did not recollect the exact date on which 
he had nec Naranbhai but said it was about 6 or 7 days before the dato of the poll. 
Naranbhai had come to Dehgam in the company of the petitioner for his clection cam 
paign and witness had invited him to tea . When Naranbhai came to his house , he saw 
the copy of the Tamanna dated 10th February 1967 and asked him how he caine to be 
in possession of that particular issue and the witness told Naranbhai that Jayantibhai 
Subodh had given him that copy about 6 or 7 days before the date of the poll. According 
to the witness the second visit of the first respondent to Dehgam in the course of his clec 
lion campaign took place about 6 or 7 days after his first visit. At the time of that second 
visit, the first respondent had held a meeting at the ginning press at Dehgam which was at : 
open general public meeting. 


On Mithabhai, who was a member of the Textilo Labour Association , Ahmedabad , 
was examined as P . W . 13 . His evidence in examination -in - chicf was that the chawl in 
which he resided consisted of about 30 buildings and in all nearly 500 persons resided in 
that chawl. Most of them were Harijans. About seven or eight days prior to the date of 
the poll , the first respondent had come to his chawl for his election propaganda work . He 
was accompenied by Mooldaş Vijaydas Vaishya , a former member of Parliament, Himatlal 
Solanki and several other local workers. The first respondent had gone from house to 
house in the chawl and requested the residents to vote for the Congress Party ; he had also 
asked one of the local workers to distribute amongst the residents of the chawl copies of 
the " Tamanna dated 10th February 1967. In cross -cxamination , he admitted that he had 
not been served with a witness summons in the case but Naranbhai Vora had asked him 
to come and give cvidence there . He had a talk with Naranbhai Vora about a week after 
the date of the poll about the visit of respondent no . 1 to the Chawl and about the distri 
bution of copies of Tamanna in the chawl at the latter s instance . It was about a fort 
night before his examinaion in court the witness stated tbat Naranbhai Vora had contacted 
hini and informned him that he had given his name as one of the witnesses in the case . 
According to the witness, he had seen copies of the " Tamunna" bcing handed over to about 
five persons in thc chawl and he himself had received one such copy from one of the local 
workers of the first respondent. He was not in a position to give the names of these 
five persons to whom he saw copies of Tamanna being given although they were all 
residents of the chawl. He himself did not preserve the copy of that particular issus 
of Tamanna which he had received . 

Not content with examining these witnesses , the petitioner summoned Jayantibhai 
Subodh to give evidence . In his examination - in - chief, Jayantibhai said that he was in 
charge of the printing and publishing of the newspaper Tamanna and he was also the 
editor of this paper . He admitted that he was the secretary of the Ahmedabad City 
Backward Classes Voters Council and Ex . G being a booklet complained of what had 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 


1867 


been published by that council. He then stated that Jethabhai B . Yadav, shown as one of 
the oflice bearers of the Backward Classes Voters Council, was not serving in the Income 
lax Department . At this stage of his cxamination , coursel for the petitioner asked for 
leave to cross - exaniine the witness on the ground that he was not likely to tell the 
truth and the learned Judge allowed the witness to be cross -examined . We find it diffi 
cult to uphold this direction of the learned Judge . Jayantibhai, no doubt , according to 
the petitioner, was an active supporter of the first respondent but at this stage when he 
was allowed to be cross -examined , he had not said anything which would lead one to 
take the view that he was in the witness box with the avowed object of suppressing the 
truth . In our opinion , the case was not one where leave to cross - examine the witness 
should have been given , on the materials then before the court. Cross -examined by the 
counsel for the petitioner, witness said that the views expressed in Tamanna generally 
favoured tic . Congress Party and he himself had been a supporter of the party for about 
25 years . With regard to the issue dated 10th February , 1967 , he frankly admitted 
that he wanted the first respondent to suceeed against the petitioner and he had therefore 
written the portion complained of in Ex, B . The materials which he had set out as facts 
in Ex, E were gathered by him partly from other newspapers, partly from what he came 
to know through correspondence and partly through other sources . He stated, however , 
that he was not responsible for the distribution of the copies of " Tamanna in the company 
of the respondent and the first respondent was not associated with him in printing the 
allegations set out in Ex. E . He admitted that the first respondent and himself were 
office holders in an instituțion known as the Backward Classes National Congress . The 
first respondent was the President and he was the Secretary of that body . Cross -examined 
he said that when he wrote the different portions included 112 Ex. E , he had not obtained 
the consent of the first respondent, nor did he do so in copsultation with the first respon 
dent or .at his instance . He denied that he had gone to Nandol in the company of the 
first respondent four or five days prior to the date of the poll uş. alleged or that he had 
made any speech or distributed any issue of the Tamanna 10 different people . He 
further denied that he had distributed copies of the issue of Tampanda at any meeting 
held in Vijaynagar Housing Sociсty or that he had called Jiwan Lal to attend any such 
meeting. His cvidence was that he had not attended any meeting in connection with the 
clection campaign of the first respondent at Vijaynagar Society six or seven days prior 
to the date of the poll. His positive evidence was that on ilth February , 1967, a meeting 
had been held in Vijaynagar Housing Sociсty presided over by one Khamchandobai 
Chavda and in which Khandobhai Desai was the chief guest. He admitted having 
attended that particular meeting. He did not know the witness Nanjibhai Kalidas Rathod 
nor had he distributeci any copies of “ Tamanna " to any person at Dehgam at any time. 
He also stated that he had 110t accompanicd the first respondent in the course of his 
campaigns to any place on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city or in the city itself. 

Naranbhai who was an clection agent of the petitioner was the nineteenth witness to 
be examined on the petitioner s side . In his cross -examination -in -chief he stated that even 
after the date of the poll hc had moved about in the constituency to collect information 
for the election petition which the petitioner was then contemplating presenting to 
the High Court. He had contacted witness Chhanbhai Virbhai Rathod of Dehgam 
after the cicction results were out. Chhaganbhai had told him that the first respon 
dent, Jayantiobai Subodh and Manoharlal Shah , the Swatantra Party candidate from 
Dehgam constituency had come to Nandol when inceting of the caste Panch was 
being held and that Jayantibhai Subodh had distributed copies of the Tamanna 
after the meeting which had been held about a wcęk prior to his talk with Chhanbhai. 
In the same manner , he had also contacted the witness Jivanlal Sombhai Vaghela at Vijay 
nagar Housing Society . His evidence was that lie had met Jivanlal at his housc when 
Jivanlal tol him that the first respondent, Jayantibhai Subodh and others had come to 
Vijaynagar Society and had addressed a meeting there. According to the witness , Jivanlal 
also told him that after the meeting the first respondent had given him a copy of " Tamanda " 
but Jivanlal had not brought with him the copy of " Tamanna " which he had received , 
Similarly he had contactca witness Nanjibhai Kalidas Rathod of Dehgam where he hari 
yonca week prior to the date of the poll. Nanjibhai had invited him to his house for 
a cup of ica and while he was having tea he saw an issue of the Tamanna lying on a 
table . Nanjibhai then told him that two or four days earlier , the first respondent and 
Jayantibhai Subodh had come to Dehgam for clcction propaganda work and on that 
occasion the grst respondent had given him the issue of Tamanna . Mithabhai, P . W . 
13 . told him thut the first respondent. Javantibhai Subodh , and Jethalal Jadav had come to 
his chawl and had distributed copics of a booklet published by the Backward Classes 
Voters Council and of issues of Tamanna to several leading workers in that arca . 


On the side of the first respondent only thrcc witnesses were examined including the 
Tespondent. The respondent udmitted that he had visited Dchgam in the course of his 
election campaign . The first occasion when he had gone there was on 7th December, 1966 . 


4858 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part II 


He had not visited Dehgam six or seven days prior to the date of the poll . About twenty 
or twenty five days prior to the date of poll, an election meeting was held at the ginning 
pross of Dehgam . He had attended that ineeting also. This was his second visit to 
Dehgain in the course of his election campaign . At the time of his visit to Debgam 
December 1966 , he had taken Jayantibhai Subedh with him because he was quite well 

in 
koown there . Apart from this particular visit to Dehgam in the company of Jayantibhai, 
he had not moved about anywhere else in his constiutency in Jayantibhai s company . He, 
was not a subscriber of the Tamanna although he had been receiving complimentary copics 
of that paper after his election . He came to know about the impugned matter printed in 

Tamanna against the petitioner only when he received a copy of the olection petition . 
In cross- examination it was put to him that he was on the advisory board of the Tamadna 
newspaper and Ex. L being a news item printed in an issue of that paper, was shown to 
him . In this connection he admitted that he was present at that meeting and he had read 
messages from different persons received in connection with the convention of the Backward 
Classes Education and Welfare Society . His definite evidence was that he did not know 
that he had boon appointed as a member of the Advisory Board of that paper. Thę news 
Hem L shows that he was a Vice- President of the institution and that Jayantibhai Şubodh , 
the editor of Tamanna was also there . He disclaimed his connection with editorial policy 
of the writings in the Tanianna with particular reference to the issue dated 10th February 
1967. · Ho said that the same had not been writton at his instance or at his suggestion , 
As regards Jayantibhai Subodh , his evidence was that the latter did not help him in his 
election compaign nor was he one of his workers but he had acted as one of his counting 
agents at the election . 

It is to be noted that in the clection potition itself full particulars were not given 
about the publication of the Tamaona or the distribution of the issue of 10th February 
1967 to various peoplo at different places . The first respondent had only himself to blamo 
in that he did not ask for further and better particulars in which case it would have 
boen easier for him to have met the allegation or contradicted the evidence of the witnesses. 
who were cited against him by calling other witnesses. We have however to examine the 
ovidence which was brought before the court and to see whether a charge of corrupt 
practice was established . 

In examining the evidence it must be borne in mind that the charge of corrupt practice 
is something very similar to a criminal charge, and must be established by cogent and 
Icliable evidence beyond any reasonble doubt. The person seeking to establish the com 
mission of a corrupt practice against a candidate must bring before the court unimpeachable 
evidence which would justify the court in coming to the conclusion that a charge of corrupt 
practice had beon proved in such a way that there could be no reasonble doubt about the 
commission thereof in tho mind of any person . It is not possible to lay down any rulo as 
to how many witnesses should be examined to establish the charge of a corrupt practice 
but in a case like this whore it is alleged that there had been free distribution of a 
newspaper containing defamatory matter about the petitioner throughout the constituency 
one would expect at least more than one witness to testify to the fact that the leaflet or 
the newspaper containing the matter complained of had been given to them at tho meeting 
or thereafter by the candidate charged with the corrupt practice or by someone else with 
his consent. It niay be that in a particular case the Judge can rely on the evidence of a 
solitary witness of unimpcachable character in coming to the conclusion that the charge 
had been established but the witness must be such that the Judge can safely rely on his 
testimony. Speaking generally , the evidence of a witness deposing to the fact of distribution 
of defamatory matter contained in a leaflet not published by the candidate would require 
some corroboration . In this case only four witnesses were examined to speak about the 
distribution of the newspaper Tamanga at four different places . The learned trial Judge 
has discarded the evidence of three but accepted the evidence of one as being sufficient 
in his opinion to establish the charge . The Judge rejected the evidence of Chhanbhai 
Virabhai Rathod ( P . W . 4 ) mainly on the ground that although the witness identificd the 
issue of Tamanna dated 10th February 1967 , during his examination in chief without the 
use of spectacles in cross - examination he said that he could not read without the assistance 
of the same. We may add that even in his examination - in - chief the witness could not 
recollect the name of the newspaper which the first respondent and his workers were said 
to be distributing but he sought to identify it when it was shown to him . How he could 
Identify it without the spectacles it is difficult to sec . In cross- examination he said that 
ho had told Naranbhai about the distribution of the newspaper two or three days after 
the ineeting at Nandol but this was not borne out by the cvidence of Naranbhai. 
According to the latter, Chhanabhai had told him about the distribution of this paper 
after the election results were out. 

The learned Judge accepted the evidence of Jivanlal Somabhai Vaghela . According 
to the Judge , he was a witness of truth because he was given his evidence in a straight 
forward manner and the Judge relied mainly on the demeanour of the witness in the 


SEÇ . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/ KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4859 


- - - 


- 


witness box for this purpose . Jo our opinion , however , the evidence of this witness was 
not such that it could bo held to be conclusive by itself. He contradicted himself almost 
at the very commencement of his examination - in - chief . He said at first that six or seven 
days before the polling day in the constituency the first respondent, Jethalal Jaday and 
Jayantilal Subodh had comc to the society accompanied by about forty persons. He 
corrected himself very soon afterwards by saying that forty persons had not accompanied 
the first respondent but forty was the number of persons presont at the meeting which 
was held at the Housing Society . Besides this, in one important aspect the evidence of 
this witoess was not borne out by Naranbhai, the petitioner s clcction agent. According 
to this witness , a copy of the issue of Tamanna had been given to him by the first 
respondent on the day of the meeting. As noted alrcady, his evidence in cross -examination 
was that he did not mçet Naranbhai at his house and had not shown him the copy of the 
“ Tamanna although requested to do so but had told him at the first interview with him 
that he had a copy of the issue of Tamanna . Naranbhai in his evidence however said 
that he had met Jivanlal at his house when Jivanlal had told him that the first respondent 
had given him a copy of the " Tainanna , Jivanlal s cvidence , as already noted , goes to 
show that he had not met Naranbhai at his house because he told Naranbhai that he had 
not brought with him the copy of the Tamanna which he had received froin the first 
respondent. 

It is difficult to accept the evidence of Jivanlal for other reasons also . As we havo 
noted beforç , according to Jayantibhai Subodh , the meeting at Vijaynagar Housing Society 
had taken place on 11th February , 1967, that is to say, 10 days before the poll and it 
was presided over by Khemchandbhai Chavda and also attended by Khandubhai Desai, 
It would have been casy enough for the petitioner to have called witnesses to discredit 
Jayantibhai, and corroborate Jivanlal to the effect that there had been no meeting at 
Vijaynagar Society on the 11th February or that as a matter of fact the meeting had been 
held six or seven days before the date of the poll when the distribution of the Tamanna 
of 10th February , 1967 had taken place . According to Jivanlal about forty persons had 
attended the meeting and it was surprising that as one besides him would bo found to 
come and corroborate his testimony . 

With regard to Jivanlal, counsel for the appellant moved an application for the taklog 
of additional evidence which according to him would clinch the matter and demonstrate 
to the court that Jivanlal could not possibly have attended the meeting six or seven days 
before the date of the poll in the evening inasmuch as the records of the Rohit Mills 
whero ho was working would show that at that time Jivanlal was engaged in the night 
shift thuis excluding the possibility of his presence at any meeting in the evening at 
Vijaynagar Housing Society . It is to be noted that no attempt to adduce such evidence 
was made before the trial Judge. It is also to be acted that Jivanlal was examined on 
20th October , 1967 and the examination of the witness went on till 6th November , 1967 . 
If the respondent was so minded there was ample opportunity for him to have secured 
ovidence from the Rohit Mills before the conclusion of the case and we have no doubt 
that if an application had been made to the learned trial Judge in between 20th October , 
1967 and 6th November , 1967 for recalling Jivanlal for the purpose of contradicting him 
by thọ record of the Rohit Mills, the learned Judge would have allowed it. That apart, 
this is not a case where we fcel we cannot come to a decision in the absence of evidence 
now sought to be produced before us. For what has happened , the appellant has him 
self to blame and in our opinion no case has been made out for the exercise of our 
jurisdiction under the provisions of Gr. 41 r. 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure . 

The learned Judge did not accept the evidence of Nanjibhai Kalidas Rathod ( P . W . 9 ). 
We see no reason to take a view different from that of the learned trial Judge with regard 
to the evidence of this witness . The testimony of this witness is of such a character 
that we find it extremely difficult to believe it. According to his evidence, he was passing 
along the road when Jayantibhai Subodh who was sitting inside the library called him 
in and asked him who he was and where he was working. Then he told him that he 
should vote for the Congress party and gave him a copy of the Tamanna dated 10th 
February, 1967. If Jayantibhai Subodh and the first respondent were out in an election 
campaign it was hardly likely that while they were sitting or resting in the library, they 
would call up people from the street and trust Into their hands a copy of tho Tamanna 
which contained matter derogatory to the petitioner . More than that, the way in which 
Naranbhai came to learn about this witness knowing anything about the distribution of 
the issue of Tamanna is such that it cannot possibly be accepted . According to this 
witness he met Naranbhai six or seven days before the date of the poll and had invited 
him to tea . I was a strange coincidence that when Naranbhai was having his tea that 
he saw a copy of the Tamanna dated 10th February 1967 lying about in the house of 
the witness and asked the witness how he had come to be in possession of it. The 
evidence of this witness as to his getting a copy of the Tamanna his coming across 
Naranbhai and the latter s find of the copy in the house of the witness is so suspicious 
that we cannot gtve credonce to it. 


4860 _ THE GAZETTE OF INDE NOVEMBER 2,1968/KARTIKA "1,190 PART 1 


4860 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 1, 1890 [ PART II — 


- 


= - 


= 


This leaves us with the evidence of Mithabhai Ambaram Parmar ( P . W . 13 ). The 
learned trial Judge did not accept the evidence of this witness majnly on the ground that 
he was a partisan witness. The learned Judge thought him to be such because he 
admittca having joined the petitioner in his companion for breaking open the locks at 
tho Sachivalaya at Ahmedabad . The witness however denied this suggestion . In our 
opinion , however , there are other circumstances which go against the acceptance of the 
evidence of this witness. The first thing to note is that he was an un -summoned . witness. 
It was only in the first week of October , 1967 that Naranbhai Vora contacted him and 
requcsted him to come and give evidence in this case . . Another thing 10 note about this 
witness is that he said that the first respondent had gone to the chawl acompanied by 
Mooldas Vijaydas Vaishya but he did not mention Jayantibhaj Subodh at all while 
Narayanbhai in his evidence connects each of the witnesses with Jayantibhai Subodb . 
For all these Iç4sons, we are not impressed by the evidence of Mithabhai although the 
learned trial Judge has not discussed his evidence in apy detail. 

In regard to all these witnesses no attempt was made to get their testimony corrobo 
rated by others to prove the fact that there was a free distribution of the issue of the 
newspaper " Tamanna . The testimony of thoso witnesses taken singly , as rogardg . distribu 
tion of the Tamanna at different places does not inspire confidence and in the absence of 
Corroboration it is not safe to rely on the samg : It must be , born in mind that in a case 
like this where there can be no doubt or dispute about the defamatory , character of a 
particular document, it would be casy enough to lead evidence to the effect that the doct 
mont complained of had been distributed to various person . When the place of dis 
tribution and the occasion for distribution is a meeting , one would naturally expect some 
corroboration of the distribution by, more than one witness , unless, of course , as we have 
already said , the witness is of such a character that no corroboration of his testimony 
was called for. 

Although four, witnesses have been oxamined to establish the case of distribution of 
the matter complained of at four different places, we cannot take the view that the ovi 
dence is sufficient to lay the commission of corrupt practice fairly and squarely at the 
door of the first respondent. In his written statement, the first respondent disclaimed 
having anything to do with the publication of the newspaper or of any distribution of the 
paper by him or by his agents with his consent. In these circumstances, it was certainly 
necessary for the petitioner to have come forward with better evidence than he has done 
in this case . It cannot be said that he was feeling any of calling a number of witnesses 
as he has examined no less than 19 witnesses but no two witnesses sneak on the same 
subject . 

Mr. Chari for the respondent also contended that there was enough material on the 
record to show that the printing of the Tamanna dated 10th February , 1967 was with the 
consent of thic appellant and according to Jayantibhai Subodh the paper had a wide cir 
vulation . The very fact that the printing was with the consent of the appellant, if estab 
lished would go to prove his case of commissian of corrupt practice . The circumstances 
from which Mr. Chari wanted us to come to this conclusion were as follows: 

1. The first respondent was on the Advisory Board of the Tamanna 

2 . Jayantibhai Subodh was not merely supporting the Congress Party in general but 
he was supporting the appellant in particular as he admitted in his evidence. 

3. The issue of the Tamanna dated 10th February , 1967 contained an article directly 
dealing with the election and the editorial policy of the paper must be laid at the door 
of the Advisory Board consisting of the first respondent and other persons. 

4. Jayantibhai Subodh accompanied the appellant in his election campaign , if not to 
different places he had accompanied certain persons who had gone for the election 
campaigo in favour of the first respondent. 

5 . Jayantibhai was a counting agent of the first respondent. 

This argument appears to have been made before the Icarned trial Judge . His view 
however was that it was possible for Jayantibhai Subodh himself on his own responsibility 
and in his enthusiasm to support the cause of the Congress Party and publish the impugned 
passages in the issuc of the Tamanna dated 10th February , 1967 and not as the agent of 
Ure first respondent. In our opinion , the learned Judge was justified in coming to that 
conclusion . Although the first respondent stated in his evidence that he did not know 
that his name had been included in the Advisory Board of the paper , we can take it that 
His name was there but there is nothing in the record to show that he had cver taken anv 
part in laying down the editorial policy of this paper . Ex. l to which we have already 
referred , was à document of 1963 , nearly four years before the date of elcction , and evcil 
if the first respondent had been on the Advisory Board in 1963 , there is nothing to show 
that he was taking any active interest in the policy of that paper at or about the time of 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : N VEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4861 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
the election or at any time in between 1963 and the date of the election . The first res 
pondent admitted having taken the help of Jayantibhai Subodh when he visited Dchgam 
but apart from this , there is no evidence which would justify us in holding that Jayantibhai 
Subodh was accompanying the first respondent in his election campaign to different places . 
Jayantibhai has stated clearly that besides going to Dehgam with the first iespondent he 
had not taken part in his election campaign at all and as we have already stated , this 
statement of Jayantibhai Subodh could have been falsified by calling other witnesses. 
Although Jayantibhai Subodh was & counting agent of the first respondent and although 
he admitted having leaning towards the first respondent in the election , the evidence 
brought Hefore the court does nci lead to the conclusion that the publishing of the defama 
tory matter in the Tamanna issue dated 10th February 1967 by him was with the con 
seut of tlle appellant or even to his knowledge. 

Although the learned Judge has gone into the question as to whether the first respon 
dent has been guilty of taking assistance from a government servant, namely , Jethabbai 
B . Yadav , in his election campaign at some length he did not accept the evidence and 
Mr. Chari did not press this point before us . In the result, we must hold that the 
learned trial Judge was not right in coming to the conclusion that the firạt respondent had 
been guilty of the commission of the corrupt practice as raised in issue No . 6 of the issues 
setled on 29th August 1967 , namely , that the first respondent and his agents had with the 
consent of the first respondent published false statements believing them to be false or 
not believing them to be true in relation to the personal character, conduct and candidature 
of the petitioner . 
In tre icsult , the appeal must be accepted and it is accordingly allowed with costs. 

M HIDALUIL1, C .J.I. 

G . K . MITTEK , J. 
New Delhi, 
Dated : August 8 , 196 

[No. 82 / 23 /67 (GJ).] 


S .O . 3813 ,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub-section (1) of 
section 22 of the Representation of the Propel Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and in supersession 
of its notification No. 434 / MD /65 dated the 2nd July , 1966 , as amended from time to 
tune, thc Election Commission hereby appoints , in respect of each of the parlianientary 
constituencies in the State of Madras and specified in column 1 of the Table below : - - 
( a ) thc officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table 

to be the Returning Officer , and 
( b ) the officers specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Table 
to be the Assistant Returning Officers : 

TABLE 


S .No. and Name of 

the constituency 


Returning Officer 


Assistant Returning 

Officer 


I 


I MADRAS NORTH 


2 MIDRAS SOUTH 


3 SRIPERUVBUDUR 


. 


Coinmissioner Cor- Revenue Officer , Corporation 

poration of Madras. of Madras , Madras . 
Connissioner, Cor Revenue Officer Corporation . 

poration of Madras . of Madras , Madras . 
. Collector of Chingleput, 1. Revenue Divisionel Officer 

Saidapet . 
2 , Revenue Deyisional Officer , 

Kancheepuram . 
. District Revenue Oficer , I . Revenue Divisional Officer , 
Chingleput, 

Chingleput. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Kancheepuram . 


| CHINGLEPIT 


, 


, 


4862 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA : 1. 1890 [PART II . 

- - - - 

- 


3 


$ TIRUTTANI 


, 


, 


6 


VELLORE (SC ) , 


. 


7 


TIRUPATTUR 


. 


, 


, District Revenue Oficer , I , Revenue Divisional Office 
Chingleput. 

Tiruvallur. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Ranipet. 
. Collector of North . I. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Arcot, Vellore . 

Tirupattur, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Ranipet. 
District Revenue Officer , 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
North Arcot , Vellore . Tirupattur. 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Tiruvannamalai. · 
, District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer , 
North Arcot, Vellore . Ranipet . 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Cheyyar . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Tiruvannamalai, 


8 WANDIWASH 


, 


. 


9 TINDIVANAM 


. 


. 


. Collector of South 

Arcot, Cuddalore . 


I. Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Tiruvannamalai, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Tindiyanam . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Tirukkoilur. 


IO CUDDALORE 


. 


. 


. Collector 
. Collector 

of South I . Revenue Diylsional Officer , 
Arcot, Cuddalore , Tirukkoilur , 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Chidambaram . 


II " CHIDAMBARAM (SC ) 


· District Revenue Oficer , I , Revenue Divisional Officer , 
South Arcot, Cuddalore . Chidambaram . 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Vridhachalam . 


12 KALLAKURICHL. 


. 


, District Revenue Officer, I . Revenue Divisional Officer " 

South Arcot, Cudda - Tirukkoilur . 
lore ; 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Vridhachulgn . 
3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Salem . 


13 KRISHNAGIRI , 


, 


Collector of Dharmapuri 1, Revenue DivisionalOfficer , 


Hosur. 


2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Dharmapuri , 


14 SALEM 


. . 


. 


. 


Collector of Salem . 


I. Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Dharmapuri. 
2 . Commissioner , Salem 

Municipality . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Salcm . 


15 METTUR 


. 


. 


. 


, District Revenue Officer, I, Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Salem , 

Dharmapuri 
2 . Revenue Divişional Officer , 

Mettur. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Sankari. 


Sec. 3 ( ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 , 


4863 


16 TIRUCHENGODE 


17 NILGIRIS . 


. 


. 


18 COIMBATORE . 


, 


19 ) POLLACHI . 


. 


. 


20 DHARAPURAM ( $ C ) . 


21 GOBICHETTIPALAYAM 


District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Salem , 

Salami 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Şankari. 
3. Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Namakkal. 
Collector of the I. Personal Assistant (General) 
Nilgiris . 

to the Collector of tho 

Nilgiris, 
2 . Revenue , Divisional Officer , 

Coimbatore . 
. Collector of Coimbatore. I . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Coimbatore . 
2. Commissioner, Coimbatore 

Municipality . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Pollachi. 
. Collector of Coimbatore. 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Pollachi. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Erode. 
. District Revenue Officer, I, Revenue Divisional Officer , 
Coimbatore . 

Pollachi. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Erode. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Dindigul. 
District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer , 
Coimbatore . 

Erode, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Gobichettipalayam . 
. District Revenue Officer , I. Revenue Divisional Oficer , 
Madurai. 

Periakulam . 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Usjlampatti. 
District Ravenue Cffcct, 1. Reverce Divisional Officer, 
Madurai. 

Usilampatti. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Dindigul, 
. Collector ofMadurai 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Madurai. 
2 . Commissioner, Maduiai 

Municipality . . 
. District Revenue Officer , I. Revenue Divisional Officer , 
Tiruchirappalli. 

Dindigul. 
2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Karur. 
. Collector of Tiruchira - 1 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Mugiri, 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Tiruchirappalli. 
3. Comniissioner , Tiruchira 

ppalli Municipality . 
. DistrictRevenue Officcr , I. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tiruchirappalli . ! Musiri. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Ariyalur. 


22 PERIAKULAM 


. 


23 DINDIGUL 


. 


, 


24 MADURAI . 


. 


. 


25 KARUR 


. 


26 


TIRUCHIRAPPALLI . 


ppalli . 


27 PERAMBALUR . 


, 


4864 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II - 


- 


- 


- 


28 PUDUKKOTTAI . 


. 


. Collector of Tiruchira . I . Revenue Divisional Officer 
Ppall 

Karur. 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Pudukkottai. 
3 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Dovakottai. | 


29 KUMBAKONAM . 


. Collector of Tanjayır. 1 . Revenue Divisional Omcer , 

Ariyalur . 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Thanjavur. 
3 . Revenu : Divigiongl 

O r , 
Kumbakonato . 


30 MAYURAM (SC ) . 


. 


31 NAGAPATTINAM 


. 


32 THANJAVURI 


. 


. 


33 STVAGANGA 


. 


. 


. D strict Revenue Oficer , I . Revenue Divisional Officer , 
Thanjavur. 

Mayuram . 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Nagapattinam . 
. District RoysaueOrer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer 
Thanjavur, 

Nagapattinam . 
2 . Reven le Divisional Oncer , 

Maunarguil . 
Collector of Thanjavur. 1. Revenue Divisional Oncer , 

Thanjayır . 
2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Pattukkottai. 
. D strict R :1 :21: 07 :28, 1. R :v: 11 Divisional Offer , 

Rini7athapiram | Devakottai. 
Mulurai. 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Sivaganga . 
D strict Roverie Officer , I , Revenue Divisional Offi er , 
Ramanathap iram @ Ramanathapuram . 
Madurai, 1 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Sivakasi, 
3 . Revenue Divisional Omcei , 

Koilpatti. 
Collector ofRiminath1. 1. Revenue Divisional Omcer , 
piram @ Madurai. Sivakasi, 

2 . Revenuc Divisional Officer , 

Koilpatti, 
. Collector of Ticinelveli. I. Revenue Divisional Oncer , 

Koilpatti. 
2 . Reven le Divisional Omcer , 

Tinnelveli 
2 . Revenue Divisional Omcer , 

Tuticorin . 


34 . RAMANATHAPURAM 


35 SIVAKASI 


35 SIVAKASI 


. 


. 


. 


Collastor of Rama:Path 


35 TIRUNELVELT . 


. 


37 TENKASI ( SC ) 


. District RV: 11 0 . :1, 1. Revenue Divisional Oncer, 
Tirunelveli, 

Koilpatti, 
2 . Revenue Dlvisio jal Ofer , 

Tirinelveli, 
3 . Reyonu : Divisional Officer , 

Cheranmahadevi. 


38 TIRUCHENDUR 


District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue DivisionalOfer , 
Tirunelveli. 

Cheramaha levi. 
2 . Revenu : D v :30 291 0 Tir : , 

Tuticorin . . 
3 . Revenue Divisional Occr . 

Palmınabhapuram . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4865 


w 


ww . - - - 


- 


3 


39 NAGERCOIL 


. 


. 


. Collector of Kanyaku - 

mari. 


Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Padmanabliapuram . 


[No. 434 /MD /68.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 14th October 1968 
S . O , 3814 . — Whereas tho Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mangilal Moolchand , 
Kadrabad , Jalna (Maharashtra ), a contesting candidate for election to the House of the 
People from Jalda Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after due notices has not given any good reason 
or explanation for tho failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said Shri Mangilal Moolchand to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being , a member of either House of Parliameot or of the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of State for a period of three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. MT-HP / 30 / 67.1 


S . O . 3815 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Sonawale Vithal 
Ramcliundra , A / P Maithan , Tal. Phaltan , District Satara (Maharashtra ), a contestiny 
candidate for election to the House of the People from Baramati Constituency , has failed: 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by tho Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, the said candidato cven after duo notices has not given any good reason 
or explanation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said Shri Sonawale Vithal Ramchandra to be disqualified for being 
chosen as , und for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the date of 
this Order . 

(No. MT-HP /40 /67.] 

By Order, 
K . S . RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


D . 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3816 ,- - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 116 - C of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the 
decision of the Supreme Court, pronounced on the 12th August , 1968 , on an appeal from 
the order dated the 10th January , 1968 of the Judicial Commissioner s Court for Manipur 
at Imphal, in election petition No. 2 of 1967. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CIVIL . APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

Civil Appeal No. 683 of 1968 
Paokui Haokip 

Appellant. 
Righang and others 

Respondents. 
JUDGMENT 
HIDAYATULLAH , CJ. .. This is an appcal from the Court of Juilicial Commisioner 
for Manipur at Imphal under s. 116A of the Representation of People Act. The appoa ! 


4866 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II — 


arises from an election to the Outcr Manipur Parliamentary Constituency at which the 
appellant, who was the returned candidatc , and five others were the contesting candidates. 
This Ouier Manipur Constituency comprised 14 Assembly constituencies . The dates of 
poll were 15th , 20th , 24th , 28th February , 1967 and 6th March , 1967 and the time of 
poll was from 7 30 AM , to 4 .30 P . M . This constituency had 2 , 19 ,554 registered voters . 
The total number of votos polled was 1 , 20 ,008. Of these 4 , 166 votes were declared 
invalid . The returned candidate rçccived 30 ,403 votes as against the next candidate who 
reccived 20 ,862 votes. There was thus a majority of 1541 votes in favour of the returned 
candidate . The result of the poll was declared on March 10 , 1967. 

The candidate who secured the second largest number of votes filed this election petition 
on April , 20 , 1967 . The main ground of attack which succeeded in the Judicial Com 
missioner s court , was that polling was disturbed because of numerous circumstances . These 
were that the polling centre were in somo cases changed from the original buildings to 
other buildings of which due notification was not issued earlier with the result that many 
of the voters who went to vote at the old polling booths found no arrangement for poll and 
rather than go to the new polling station , went away without casting their votes . The 
socond ground was that owing to firing by the Naga Hostiles , the voting at some of the 
polling stations were disturbed and almost no votes were cast. It was lastly contended that 
the polling hours at some stations were reduced with the result that some of the voters who 
went to the polling stations were unable to cast their votes. 


It is hardly necessary to set down here the names of the polling stations at which these 
things happened . In any cvent, these polling stations carry rather strange names and it 
would not help to state them here . The net result may be stated . It was this there were 
12 polling centics , ut 4 of which the venue for the poll was altered . There were 6 others 
at which the firing disturbed the poll and in 2 of the polling centres not a single vote was 
cast and lastly in one of the polling centres out of 513 voters , only one yoted . 


The following chart discloses the break - up of the figures at these polling centres : 


S . No. Name of th : polling stations 

(19 notificd ) 


No, of voters attached 

to the station 


No, of votes 
actually cast 


. 


1242 


522 


1060 


172 
336 


654 
449 
584 
715 


1. Tungam Khullen High School . 
2 . Chandel Junior Basic School . 
3 . Purum Pantha L . P. School . 
4 . Litan L . P . School 
5. Toupokp : M . E . School . 

Chakpih Xăng H . B. School . 

Bolyang Tampak L . P . School 
8 . Oklu L . P . School . . 

9. Larong Khullen J. B . School , 
10. Likhunci M . E. School . . 
11. Nagari Khallen N . E . School 
12. Karong Dak Bangalow · 


858 


. 


725 


. 
. 
. 


561 


. 


565 
564 


· 


· 


513 


TOTAL 


8620 


1894 


It will be noticed from this chart that out of 8620 votes which would have been pollcd , 
Only 1894 votes were actually received in other words, 6726 voters did not vote or could 
not vote . The election petitioner who ran a deficit of 1541 votes claimed in the election 
petition that the result of the poll was prejudicial to him in particular and that by tho nou 
compliance with the provisions of the Act and its rules , that result of the election in so 
far as the returned candidate was concerned had been materially affected . The Judicial 
Commissioner after examining a large number of witnesses on both sides, came to the 
conclusion that there was this flow in thc election for this constituency . He went further 
and held that the result of the election in so far as it concerned the returned candidate 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA ! 1, 1890 


4867 


had been materially affected . He, therefore, avoided the election and ordered fresh poll 
in the 12 polling stations. 


In this appeal, the returned candidate attempted to establish that polling was not so 
Jisorganised that it can be said that it did not take place. He attempted to show that even 
where the polling station was shifted , it was a matter of few hundred yards and the people 
who went to vote knew the new location of the polling boothş . He also submitted that, 
in any event, this had affected all the contesting candidates equally and the election 
petilioner could not, therefore , be said to have suffered more than the other candidates . 
Lastly , the rcturned candidate contended that it bad not been established in accordance with 
the ruling of this Court in Vashist Narain Sharma v. Dev Chandra and others ( ) that the 
result of the election had been materially affected in so far as his election was concerned. 
In this connection , the returned candidate relies upon the majority which he had already 
obtained and refers to the votes has not been cast, pointing out that on the general 
pattern of the voting as disclosed in the case it cannot possibly be said that the election 
petitioner would have carried such a majority from those votes as to ncutralise the successful 
Jead he had already established . The election petitioner as the answering respondent tried 
to show that the pattern of the voting clearly showed that the returned candidate had 
obtained a fortuitous lead which was capable of being wiped off if the voting bad proceeded 
according to the Act and the Rules . Both sides relied upon statistics to establish their 
cascs . The election pctitioner in addition relied upon the evidence of witnesses which he 
point out had been accepted by the Judicial Commissioner and relying upon the 
observations of this Court contended thut we should not lightly depart from the findings 
given by the learned Judicial Commissioner . 

This case , without entering into the numerous detail is confined to the above contentions 
of tho rival parties. To begin with , it is hardly necessary for us to go over the evidence 
with a view to ascertaining whether there had been or not a breach of the Act and the 
rules in the conduct of the election at this constituency . We may say at once that having 
read the cvidence we are in cntire agreement with the decision of the Icarned Judicial 
Commissioner that by the change of venue and owing to the firing, a number of voters 
probably failed to record their votes which they would have done if polling had gone on 
smoothly and according to rulcs . This shows that the matter is govcrocd by s. 100 ( 1) ( d ) (iv ). 
The question still remains whether the condition precedent to the avoidance of the election 
of the neturned candidate which requires proof from the election petitioner that the result of 
the election had been materially affected in so far as the returned candidate was concerned, 
has been established in the Present case . This part of the case depend upon the ruling 
of this Court in Vashist Narain Sharma s case. In that case there was a difference of 111 
votes between the returned candidate and the candidate who had obtained the next higher 
number of votes. One candidate, hy name Dudh Nath Singh was found not competent 
to stand and the question arosc whether the votes wasted on Dudh Nath Singh , if they 
had been polled in favour of the remaining candidates . would have materially affected the 
fate of the clection . Certain principles were stated as to how the probable effect upon the 
election of the successful candidates of votes which are either wasted ( in this case not 
cast) must be worked out. Two witnessed were brought to depose that if Dudh Nath Singh 
had not been a candidate for whom no voting had to be done, the voters would have voted 
for the next sucessful candidate . Ghulam Hasan J. did not accept this kind of evidence . 
It is observed as follows: 
" It is impossible to accept the imse dixit of witnesses coming from one side or the 

other to say that all or some of the votes would have gone to one of the 
other on some supposed or imaginary ground . The question is one of fact 
and has to be proved by positive evidence . If the petitioner is unable to 
adduce evidence in a case such inescapable conclusion to which the Tribunal 

can come is that burden is not discharged and that the election must stand ." . 
In another passage, it is observed : 
" It will not do merely to say that all or a majority of thc wasted votes might have 

gone to the next highest candidate . The casting of votes at an election depends 
upon a variety of factors and it is not possible for any one to predicate how 
many or which proportion of the votes will go to one or the other of the 
candidates. While it must be recognised that the petitioner jo such a case 
is confronted with a difficult situation , it is not possible to relieve him of the 
duty imposed upon him by 5. 100 ( 1 ) (c ) and hold without evidence that the 

duty has been discharged ." . 
Further it is pointol out that the burden of proof in England was the exact reverse 
of that laid down by the Indian Statutes . There , the returned candidate has to prove that 
the non - compliance or mistake did not affect the result of the election . In our country , 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


(1 ) 1953 ( 1) SCR 509 . 


4868 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 . 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II 


08 


the buiden is upon the election petitioner to show affirmatively that the result of the election 
has been materially affected . 

Therefore , what we have to see is whether this burden has been successfully discharged 
by the clection petitioner by demonstrating to the court cither positively or even reasonably 
that tho poll would have gone against the returned candidate if the broach of the rules had 
not occurred and proper poll had taken place at all the polling stations including those at 
which it did not. 

The evidence in this case which has been brought by the election petitioner is that kind 
of evidence which was uiticised by this Court. Witnesses have been brought forward to 
state that a number of voters did not vote because of the change of venue or because of 
firing and that they had decided to vote en bloc tor the election petitioner . This kind of 
cvidence is merely an assertion on the part of a witness, who cannot speak for 500 voters 
for the simple reason tht as this Court said the casting of votes at an election depends 
upon a variety of factors and it is not possible for anyone to predicate how many or which 
proportion of votes will go to one or the other of the candidates. We cannot therefore 
accept the statement even ot a Headman that the whole village would have voted in favour 
of one candidate to the exclusion of the others . This conclusion is further fortificd if one 
examines the polling pattern in this election . To begin with , it is wrong for the election 
petitioner to contend that of the 6726 votes which were not cast, he would have received 
all of them . The general pattern of polling not only in this constituency but in the whole 
of India is that all the voters do not always go to the polls. In fact, in this case , out of 
2 , 19 , 354 voters , only 1 , 20 , 006 cast thcir votes. Even if we were to add to them the 6726 
votes , it is obvious that not more than 55 per cent, of the voters would have gone to polls. 
This immediately cuts down the figures of 6726 to a little over half onc the margin froin 
which the election petitioner could clain additional votes therefore becomes exceedingly 
small. When we tum to the pattern of voting as is disclosed in the various polling booths 
at which the voters had in fact gone, we got a reasonably clcar picture . At 9 polling 
ccrtres , 1893 votes are actually polled . Of these , 524 votes were received by the election 
petitioner and 413 by the returned candidate and 1097 votes went to the other candidates. 

In other words, out of 20 votes, 11 went to other canidates , 5 to tho election petitioner 
and 4 to the returned candidate . If one goes by the law of averages and applies thege 
figures reasonably to hall of the votes which were not cast, it is demonstrated at once that 
the election petitioner could not expect to wipe off the large arrears under which ho 
laboured and that he could not have therefore made a successful bid for the seat oven with 
the assistance of the voters who did not cast their votes. It is pointed out that at Tungam 
Khullen High School, he reccived 401 out of 522 votes . If this had been the general Pattern , 
one could say that he would have got almost all the votes that has not been cast. But look 
at the other polling station At Litan L . P . School, he obtained 41 out of 347 , at Chandel 
Junior Basic School he got 34 out of 172 , at Purum Pantha L . P . School he got 11 out of 
336 , at Toupolpi M . E , School 18 out of 128 , at Oklu L . P . School 8 out of 17 , at Chakpi 
Karong M . E . School 3 out of 67 , at Larong Khullen L . P . School 1 out of 53 and at 
Bolyang Tampak L . P . School 8 out of 849 . While we do not think that statistic can be 
called in aid to prove such facts , because it is notorious that statistics can prove anything 
and made to be for either case , it is open to us in reaching out conclusion to pay attention 
to the demonstrated pattern of voting . Having done so, we are quite satisfied that 1541 
votes could not, by any reasonable guess , have been taken off from the lead of the returned 
candilute so as to make the election petitioner successful. In so far as the other contesting 
candidates are concerned , they had received so few votes that even if they had received 
all the votes that had not heen cast, it would not have mattered a little to the result of 
the election . The learned Judicial Conmissioner reached his conclusion by committting 
the same error which was cuticised in Vaslust Narcin Sharma s case . We took the staterrcnt 
of the witnesses at their worth and held on the basis of those statements that all the votes 
that had not been would have gone to the election petitioner . For this, there is no 
foundation in fact; it is surprise and it is anybody s guess as to how those people , who did 
not vote , would have actually voted . 

In our opinion , the decision of the learned judicial Commissioner that the election was 
in contravention of the Act and the Rulcs was correct in the circumstances of this case ; 
but that does not alter the position with regard to s. 100 ( 1) ( d ) ( iv ) of the Act. That section 
requires that the election retitioner must go a little further and prove that the result of 
the election bad been materially affected . Now bc bas to prove it has already been stated 
by this Court and applymų that test, we find that he has significantly failed in his attempt 
and therefore the election of the returned candidate could not be avoided . It is no doubt 
true that the burden which is placed by law is very strict ; even it is strict it is for the 
( ourts to apply it . It is for the Legislature to consider whether it should be altered . If 
there is another way or determining the burden , the law should say it and not the courts . 
It is only in given instances that, taking the law as it is, the courts can reach the conclusion 
whether the burden or proof has been successfully discharged by the election petitioner 


- - - - 


C . J . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 4869 
S 

= = = 
or not. We are satisfied that in this cuse this burden has not beon discharged . The result 
is that the appeal must succeed and it is allowed . The election of the returned candidato 
will stand . The costs in the Judicial Commissioner s Court will be as ordered . The 
election petitioner who apparently was not so much at fault as the Government in changing 
the polling stations, shall bear only half the costs of the appellant in this Court. 
New Delhi; 
Algus 12 , 1968. 

Sd / 

K . MITTER , J. 

[No. 82 /MR / 2 / 67.] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1968 
S . O . 3817, — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Datt, Editor, 
Pranveer Weekly , Village and Post Office Bairath , District Jaipur , a contesting candidato 
for election to the House of the People from Dausa constituency , has failed to lodge any 
account of his election expenses as requirod by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
and tho Rules made thereunder : 

And whereas the said candidate , even after due notices, has not given any reason or 
explanation for the failure : 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said Shri Ram Dutt to be disqualified for being chosen as , and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative 
Council of a State for a period of three years from thc date of this order , 

[No. RJ-HP / 6 /67(7) ] 

By Order, 
A . N . SEN , Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 15th October 1968 
S . Q . 3818 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 and 
clauso (5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , and after consultation with the Comptroller 
and Auditor-General of India in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Released . Emergency Commissioned Officers and Short Service Commissioned Officers 
(Reservation of Vacancies) Rules, 1967 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Released Emergency Commissioned Officers and 
Sbort Servico Commissioned Officers (Reservation of Vacancies) Amendment Rules, 1968 . 

2. In rule 5 of the Released Emergency Commissioned Officers and Short Survice 
Commissioned Officers (Reservation of Vacancies ) Rules, 1967, 

in sub -clause (l) of clause (a ) of sub -rule (2 ), on and from the 17th June. 1967, 
the following proviso shall be deemed to have been inserted , namely : 
" Provided that an Emergency Commissioned Officer or a Short Service Commis 

stoned Officer who , at the time aforesaid , did not possess the educational 
qualifications prescribed for direct recruitment to the Central Services and 
posts, Class I and Class I , recruitment to which is made on the basis of 
the results of the combined competitive examination for recruitment to the 
Indian Administrative Service or Indian Police Service or other Contral 
Services or posts , Class I and Class III held by the Commission but who 
has obtained such qualifications subsequently , shall be eligible to competo 

for the reserved vacancies in those Services or posts." ; 
(ü ) on and from the 11th May, 1968,-- 
(a ) after the first proviso to sub -clause (i) of clause (a ) of sub -rule (2 ), the following 

proviso shall be deemed to have been inserted . namely : 
" Provided further that an Emergency Commissioned Officer or a Short Servico 

Commissioned Officer who , when he appeared before a Services Selection 


4870 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/ KARTIKA 11, 10 . [Parill - - 
-RESS - - - 

- - - 
Board as a candidate for the grant of Emergency Commission or Short 
Service Commission in the Armed Forces , was studying in a recognised 
institution , that is to say , a university , or an institution affiliated to a 
university , for the award of the educational qualification prescribed for direct 
recruitment to the Central Services and posts, Clays I and ass II, recruit 
ment to which is made on the basis of the results of the combined competitive 
oxamination for recruitment to the Indian Administrative Service or Indian 
Police Service or other Central Services or posts Class I and Clasy II held 
by the Commission but who, having discontinued his studies because of 
joining the Armed Forces , did not acquire such qualification , shall be eligible 

to compete for tho reserved vacancies in thoso Services or posto ." 
(b) for the proviso under sub -clause (ii) of clause (a ) of sub-rule (2 ), tho following 

proviso shall be deemed to have been inserted , namely : 
" Provided that an Emergency Commissioned Officer or a Short Servico Commis 

sioned Officer competing under the second proviso to sub - clauso (1) for tbc 
Services or posts specified thercin should not have attained on tho . crucial 
dato aforesaid , such upper age as may be prescribed by the Contral 
Government." 


[No . 31/ 1 /67- Esto .(B ).] 
SHANKAR KAPOOR , Under Socy. 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
3 . 0 . 3819. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 41 of the Army Act, 
1959 (54 of 1959 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts the following officials of the 
Ceylon High Commission , New Delhi from the operation of so much of the provision 
of section 10 of the said Act, as is relatablo to the bringing into India of the arms 
mentioned against their names, subject to the condition that tho aforesaid arms shall not 
be transferred to any person in India for consideration or otherwise . 

( 1) Shri V . L . B . Mendis , Deputy High Commissioner - one 12 boro DBBL shotgun , 
Model ASTOR , 

(2 ) Shri T . A . Kreltszheim , Second Secretary - one 12 bore DBBI, shortgun Model 
ASTOR 

2. The exemption shall remain valid for a period of one month from the date of 
issue of this notification. 

[No. F . 17 / 14 / 68 -P . IV . ] 
D . D . JOSHI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 
9 .0 . 3820 .- - In pursuance of clause ( 1) of atticle 239 of the Constitution , the Prosident 
hereby directs that the powers of the Central Government under the Delhi Municipal 
Corporation Service (Control and Appeal) Regulations, 1959 shall, subject to the control 
of the President and until further orders , bo exercised by the Administrator of the Union 
territory of Dolhi, 

[No . F . 3 /4 /68- Delhi.) 
By order and in the name of the President of India . 

A . D . PANDE , Joint Secy . 


गृह मंत्रालय 

facit , 18 44997 1968 
PHOTO 3821. - T 976 239 out ( 1 ) # hot # 
रापति एतद्धारा निदेश देते हैं कि दिल्ली नगर निगम सेवा (नियंत्रण और अपील.) 


SEC. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTEOFINDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4871 


विनियम , 1959 के अधीन केन्द्रीय सरकार की शक्तियां , राष्ट्रपति के नियत्रण के अध्यधीन और 
जब तक अतिरिक्त आदेश न हो , दिल्ली के सघ राज्य क्षेत्र के प्रशासक द्वारा प्रयुक्त की जाएगी । 

[ सं० फा० 3/ 4/ 68 -- दिल्ली ] 
भारत के राष्ट्रपति के आदेश से और नाम में , 

अ० द . पांडे, 
सयुक्त सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


New Delhi, the 18th October 1988 
3. O . 3822 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of article 77 of the 
Constitution , the President hereby akes the following rules further to amend the 
Authentication ( Orders and other Instruments ) Rules , 1958, namely : -- 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Authentication ( Orders and other Instruments ) 
SIXTH Amendment Rules, 1968 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official Gazette . 

2 . In rule 2 of the Authentication ( Orders and other Instruments ) Rules, 1958, after 
< Jause (am) , the following clause shall be inserted, namely : 
" ( an ) in the case of orders anl other instruments relating to the Ministry of Home 

Affairs by the Chief Welfare Officer, a Director, a Deputy Director , or a 
Deputy Financial Adviser in that Ministry ." 

[ No 3 / 13 / 68 - Pub, I.] 
K . R . PRABHU , Joint Secy . 


New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 
S . O . 3823. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 41 of the Arms Act, 1959 
154 of 1959 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . G . S . R 991 dated 
the 13th July , 1962 , namely : - - 
In Schedule II to the said notification , in the entry in column 3 against Entry 2 , the 
words and figure " except where section 4 applica" shall be omitted . 

No. F.11 / 23 / 68 P.IV .] 
___ P. B. RAJAGOPALAN, Under Secy . 


गह मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली, 25 अक्टूबर , 1968 
एस०प्रो0 3824. -- प्रायुध अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 का 54) की धारा 41धारा प्रवेत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , भारत सरकार के गृह मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० सा० 
का०नि० 991 तारीख 13 जुलाई, 1962 में एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची II में , प्रविष्टि 2 के सामने स्तम्भ 3 में की प्रविष्टि में से “सिवाय 
यहा के जहा कि धारा 4 लागू होती है शब्द मौर अफ लुप्त कर दिए जायेगे । 

[सं० 11/ 23/ 68- पुलिस -4 ] 

पि . ब . राजगोपालन , 
अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


4872 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 [ PART II - 
- = - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- --- - - - - - - -- - - - - 

-- - - - -- 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 
S . O . 3825 . -.-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 1 ) of acction 5 ] cad 
with section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946), and of 
all other powers enabling it in this behalf , the Central Government, with the consent of 
the Government of the State of Nagaland, hereby extends the powers and jurisdiction of 
the inembers of the Delhi Special Police Establishinent to Kobima and Mokokchung 
Districts of tho State of Nagaland for the investigation of offences punishable under tho 
Foreign Exchango Regulation Act, 1947 ( 7 of 1947 ) . 

INo. 228 / 5 / 67- AVD. II .] 
R . C . JOSHI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

Neur Delhi, the 11th October 1968 
S . O . 3826 . - In exercise of the powers conferred hy Section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (37 of 1952 ) read with proviso below sub -rule 2 of rule 4 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorshit ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M . V . Desai. 
an Officer of the CIS Cadre , currently Adviser , Plan Information and Publicity , Planning 
Commission , to act as Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay with immediate 
effect for a period upto six months vice Shri R . P . Naik , proceeded on Fellowship of the 
Centre for International Affairs Harvard University , Massachuestts . 


[ No. F. 2 /61 / 68- F ( C ) .] 
H. C . KHANNA, Dy. Secy . 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली . 19 अक्तूबर , 1968 


एस० प्रो० 3827.-- - चलचित्र (सेंसर ) नियमावली , 1958 के नियम 4 के उप -नियम 
2 के नीचे के उपबन्ध के साथ पठित चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 37वां ) की 
धारा 3 के द्वारा दिये गये अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्वारा केन्द्रीय 
सूचना सेवा संवर्ग के अधिकारी श्री एम० वी० देसाई को , जो इस समय योजना आयोग में योजना , 
सूचना और प्रचार सलाहकार हैं , इस अधिसूचना की तिथि से 6 महीने तक के लिए केन्द्रीय फिल्म 
मेंसर बोर्ड, बम्बई का अध्यक्ष नियक्त किया है । यह नियक्ति श्री पार० पी० नायक , जो सेंटर फार 
इन्टर नेशनल अफेयर्स हरवर्ड यूनिवसिटी, मसाच्युट्स की शिक्षावृत्ति पर गये है, के स्थान पर की गई 


[ फाइल संख्या 2/ 61/ 68 --- एफ० सी० ] 


ह० चं० खना , 
उप सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

___ New Delhi , the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3828. . . Whereas Captain D . A . Sament , Area Manager, Indian Airlines, Bombay , 
who was appointed as an assessor to assist the Court of Inquiry get up vide Notifications 

No . 7 - A / 29- 68 dated the 26th June , 1968 , in holding a formal investigation into an 
accident which occurred to a Boeing 707 aircraft of Pan American World Airways at 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4873 


Dum Dum (Calcutta Airport ) on the 13th June, 1968 , is unable to participate any further 
in the said investigation ; 

Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 of tho Aircraft Rules , 
1937 , the Central Government hcroby appoints Captain J . J . Ezekiel, Indian Airlines, 
Bonibay, in an assessor to the said investigation , in the place of Captain D . A . Samant. 

[No. F. 7- A /29-68.] 
S . N . KAUL , Under Secy . 


2874 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economie Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1968 
S. O . 3829. -- Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 18th Oxober 1968 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Capital paid -up . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 Notes 


17, 39,83,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5 , 38 ,000 


Reserve Furd . . . . . . . 
National Agricultural Credit(Lorig- Term Operations) 
Fund 

. 


80 ,00, 00 ,000 Rupee Coin . . . 

Small Coin . . . 
113,00 ,00,000 Bills Purchased and Discounted : 


3 ,84,000 


. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER2,1968/KARTIKA11,1890[PARTII— 


National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund 


33,00 , 00 , 000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(a ) Internal . . . 
(6 ) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances held Abroad * . . 


National Industrial Credit Long- Term Operations) Fund 


55 ,00 ,00 , 000 


197 ,79, 74 ,000 
107, 10 ,83 ,000 


Investments * * . 


. 


. 


175,67 , 74 ,000 


Deposits - 


Loans and Advances to : 


( a) Government 


Yernment 


(1) Central Government 
( ) State Governments @ 


. 
, 


. 
, 


. 
, 


. 
, 


. 
, 


Central Government 


. 


. 


. 


. 


51,14 ,84,000 


89,88,66 ,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


( ) State Governments . 
(b) Banks 


20,03, 29 ,000 
205 , 93 ,82,000 

3 ,40, 28 ,000 


. 


. 


o scheduled Commercial Banks . 
( ) Scheduled State Co -operative Banks 


(1 ) Non - Scheduled State Co -operative Banks , 

( 0 ) Other Banks . . . . . . 
( Others . . . . . . 


31 ,61,64 , 000 
15,02 ,53 ,000 


Bills Payable 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5 ,49,55,000 Loans and Advances to : 

Scheduled Commercial Bankst . . . 

(is) State Co - operative Bankstt 
144 , 33 , 64 ,000 ( 1 Others . . . . 
5,89,30 ,000 Loans , Advances and Investments from National Agri 

cultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fuod 
58 ,07. 000 (a ) Loans and Advances to : 
15 ,62 ,000 

State Governments 
330 , 93,05,000 

( id State Co -operative Banks . . . 

(111) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
(6) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Debentures 
39 ,49,05, 000 Loans & Adgances from National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Fund 
Loans and Advances to State Co - operative Banks 
Loans Advances and Investments from National Industrial 
Credit (Long - Tera Operations) Fund 
(a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bang , 
(6 ) Investment in bonds/ debentures issued by the 

Development Bank 
Other Assets 


8 ,53 ,61,000 


Other Liabilities 


5 , 33 ,24 ,000 


species200))THEGAZETTBOFINDIA:NOVEMBER2,1968/KARTIKA11,1890 


6 ,18 ,23,000 


34 , 55 , 18 ,000 


Rupees 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


918,57,84, 000 


Ropees 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


918,57,84, 000 


* Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short- term Securities . 

* Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fuod and the National Industrial Credit ( Long - Term 
Operations) Fund . 

Rycluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fund . but including temporary overdrafts to State 
Governments , 

+ Includes Rs, 10 , 71 , 88 , 000 advanced to scheduled commercialbanks against usance bills under Section 17 ( 4Xc) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

Exduding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fund and the National AgriculturalCredit ( Stabilise 
tion .) Fand . 

Dated the 23rd day of October , 1968 , 


4875 


28 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 for the week ended the 18th day of October 1968 

ISSUB DFPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Notes held in the Baaking Department . 


17 , 39 ,83, 000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : — . 
a ) Held in India 
( 6 ) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities . . . 


115 ,89 ,25 ,000 
226 ,42,00 ,000 


Lotes in circulation 


3219,97, 33 .000 


ТотAi, 


342,31,25,000 
82 ,01 .23, 000 


Rupees Coin 


Total Notes issued 


3237 ,37, 16 ,000 


Government of India Rupee Securities . 


2813, 04 ,68 .000 


Internal Blls of Exchange and 

other Commercial Paper 


Total Liabilities 


3237 , 37 , 16 ,000 


Total Assets 


3237,37, 16 ,000 


THIRGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER2,1968/KARTEA11,1890PA**II 


L. K. JHA, Governor. 


Daled the 23rd day of October, 1968 


(No . F . 3 ( 3 )- BC / 68 . ] 


Sec. 31*:) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 487 

= = = = 

= = - G 
New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 
9 .0 . 3830,- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ), the Central Government on the recommendation of 
tho Reserve Bank of India hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 of the suid 
Act shall not apply to the Cochin Commercial Bank Ltd ., Cochin , in respect of the 
property (measuring 1 acro, 20 cents and 796 Sq . linka) held by it at Mattancherry Town , 
Cochin , Kerala State , till the 30th September 1969. 

[No. F . 15 (27)- BC /68.) 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Economls Affairs ) 
(Office of the Controller of Capital Imues ) 

New Delhi, the 26th October 1968 
S . O . 3831.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of Section 6 of tho 
Capital Issues (Control) Act, (29 of 1947) the Central Government hereby exempts the 
Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation of India Ltd ., from the provisions of Sections 
3 and 5 of the said Act, in respect of issue of debentures of the value not exceeding Rs. 
3 , 00 .00 , 000 / - ( Rupees three crores ) to be made by the said Corporation to the Industrial 
Development Bank of India covering a loan of like amount to be granted by the said Bank 
to the said Corporation . 

[No. R . 143 -CCI/68 . ] 
M . K . VENKATACHALAM , 

Controller of Capital Issues . 


( Department of Revenue and Insiranco) 

New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 


S . O . 3832 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- clause (iii) of clause (44 of 
section 2 of the Income tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Governmont horoby 
authorises Shri R . K . Paul, who is a Gazetted Officer of tho West Bengal Government 
to exercisc the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act in respect of the 
following areas in the State of West Bengal, namely : 
(1) The wholo of 24 -Parganas Civil Districts excluding such areas as fall within 

the Calcutta Municipal Limits, and 
( 2 ) Calcutta Municipal Wards No . 1 to 100. 

[No. 107 ( F . No. 16 / 84 /68 -ITA -III.] 

J. C . KALRA , Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 26th October 1968 


S . Q . 3833 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauşc (d ) of section 7 read with 
sub -section ( 3 ) of section 160 of the Customs Act, 1962 ( 52 of 1962 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Central Board of Revenue No . 31 -Customs dated the 2nd April, 1960 , 
Damely :- - 
In the Schedule to the said notification , the entry " Halar " in the first column and 
the corresponding entry " Pindhara " in the second column shall be omitted . 

[No . 151/ F . No. 14 /6 /68-LCII .) 


4878 


THE GAZĘTTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 
& 0 . 3834.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 76 of 
tho Customs Act, 1962 ( 52 of 1962 ) , the Central Governmçot hereby makes the follow 
iós further amendment in the notification of the Government of Ipdia , in the Ministry 
of Finance ( Department of Revonu ) , No. 50 - Customs, dated 1st February , 163 namely : 
In the said notification , 
( a ) in paragraph ( 1 ) for sub -paragraph ( ii ), the following sub -paragraph shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" ( ii) The exporter produces to the proper officer a certificate issued by the 

Customs authorities at the port of destination that the goods have been 
landed at that port or a certificate from the authorised dealer , as defined 

in clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 
( 7 of 1947 ) through whom the export documents have beon negotiated , that 

the sale proceeds have been realised in foreign exchange or a cortificate 
from the said authorised dealer indicating that the consignee has taken 
delivory of the goods in the country of destination and that the sale 

proceeds horeof will be realised in the prescribed manner." 
( b ) After paragraph ( 3 ), the following prov so shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that nothing in this notification shall apply to goods on which the 

export duty leviable is more than the drawback of duty admissible and 
the drawback of duty is adjusted against the export duty leviable ." 

[No. 133 / F . No. 14 / 2 / 68 LC .11.] 


(7 or change Potete or a certificado 


STAMPS 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 


S . O . 3835 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government hereby romits 
the duty with which the bonds to the value of fifty five lakhs of rupees to be issued by the 
Mysore State Financial Corporation are chargoable under the said Act. 

[No. 18 /68 -Stampg . F . No . 1/ 48 /68 -Cus . VII.] 


ORDERS 


STAMPS 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 


S . O . 3836 In exercise of tho powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ), the Central Government hereby 
romits the stamp duty with which the bonds to the face valuc of rupees Afty lakhs, to be 
jaguod by the Kerala Financial Corporation , aro chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 17 /68 -Stamps F. No . 1 / 47 /68 -Cus. VII.) 


, S .O . 3837 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a ) of sub -section ( 1) of 
section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899 ) , the Central Governmeat hetoby remits 
the stamp duty with which tho document, " Agreement" to be signed betwoce the State 
Bank of India , Now Delhi and two Banka in France under the French Credit for 1967-68 , 
in chargeable under the said Act. 


[No. 19 /Stemps-F . No . 1/ 32 / 68 -Cus. VII. ] 


M . S . SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


SEc . 3 (it )] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968 / KARTIKA 11. 1890 


1879 


- 


- 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 


S . O . 3838 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs Act, 1962 
(52 of 1962), the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby declares Tinsukia , in the 
State of Assam , to be a warehousing station , 


[ No. 152/ 68- Customs --- F. No . 3 / 45 /68- Cus. VII.] 


M . S . SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
New Delhi, the 28th October 1968 


S. O . 3839.----In pursuance of sub-rulc ( 4 ) of rule 155 of the Trade and Merchandise 
Marks Rules , 1959, it is hereby notificd that , in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( b ) of sub-rule ( 1 ) of the said rule, the Contral Government hereby removes the 
name of Shri S. K Das of Bombay , from the Register of Trade Marks Agents . 

INo. 6(1) Exp .Inep / TM / 68.1 
_ P. V. RAMASWAMY , Under Secy . 


ORDER 


New Delhi , the 28th October 1968 


so 3840. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( xi ) of clause ( a ) of 
section 2 of the Essontial Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government 
hereby declares the following commodity to be an essential commodity for the purposes 
of the said Act, namely : 
" Dry cells and batteries for Transistor Radiog." 

[ No . 26 ( 7 ) CS. I / 68 .] 
B. K . VARMA, Under Secy . 


वाणिज्य मंत्रालय 

मावेश 


नई दिल्ली , 28 अक्टूबर 1968 


एस० प्रो० 3841. - प्रावश्यक वस्तु अधिनियम , 9955 ( 1955 का 10 ) की धारा 2 
के खण्ड ( क ) के उपखण्ड ( II ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 
द्वारा निम्नलिखित घस्त को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए प्रावश्यक वस्तु भोषित करती 
है ; अर्थात 
"ट्रांजिस्टर रेडियो के लिए ड्राइसल और बेंटरियो 

[ सं० 26( 7) सि० प्र० 1I / 68 .] 

मी० के० बर्मा, प्रवर सचिव । 


80 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART 11– 
- = _ = 

- = - 

- - 

- - - - - - - - - 
(Office of the Jt. Chlef Controller of Imports & Exports , New Delhi.) 

Bombay , the 30th July 1968 
SUBJECT .-- Order for cancellation of Customs purposes copy of licence No . 0118043 dand 

18th December , 1967 for Rs. 437 / - issued in favour of M / s. Jainial Singh 

Kohli, Bombay . 
9 . O . 3842.- - M / 8 . Jalmal Singh Kohli Bombay granted the import licence No. P / EI/ 
0118043 dated 18th December , 1967 for Rs. 437 / - for the imports of items shown on the 
reverse of this order for the licensing period A . M . 68 from G . C . A . They have applied 
for duplicate copy of Custom purposes of the abovcmentioned licence on the ground that 
the original customs and exchange purposes copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced . 
It is further stated that the original licencc Wes not registered with any Custoins House 
and pot utilised . 

2 . In qupport of this contention , the applicant has filed on Affidavit on stamped papers 
duly attested beforo the City Magistrate . I am satisfied that the original licence No . 
0118043 dated 18th December , 1967 has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate 
Customs purpose copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence 
No. 0118043 dated 18th December , 1967 is cancelled . 

No. 275 ( b ) IV / 5. 200 / AM .68 /L3 / ET3. ] 


SUBJECT. - Order for cancellation of Customs Purposes copy of licence No. 0108922 duted 

7th November, 1966 for Rs. 35000 /-, issued in favour of M / s. Jagkumar & Co . 

Bombay . 
$ . 0 . 3843.- -Ms. Jagkumar and Co . Bombay was granted the import licence 
No. P / EI/ 0108922 dated 7th November , 1966 for Rs. 35000 / - for tlie imports of items 
shown on the reverse of this order for the licensing period A . M . 67 fiom USA . They 
have applied for duplicato copy of Custom purposes of the abovementioned licence on the 
ground that the original customs and exchange purposes copy of the licence has been lost 
or misplaced . It is further stated that the original licence was partly utilised with the Custom 
House Bombay leaving a balance of Rs. 12464 / -. 

2 . In support of this contention, the applicant has filed an Affidavit on stamped papers 
duly attested before the City Magistrato. I am satisfied that the original licence No. 0108922 
dated 7th November, 1966 has been lost or misplaced and direct that a diplicatc customs 
Purposc copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licencc No . 
0108922 dated 7th November, 1966 is cancelled. 

[No. 293 -95 - 97 / IV / 3 /MVP / L . 3 -US Aid .) 


SUBJECT — Order for cancellation of Exchange Control purposes ( opy of licence No . PEIT 

0117455 dated 9th November, 1967 for Rs. 23093 / - Issue in favour of M / s. 

Angel Pvt. Ltd ., Bombay . 
S .O . 3844 .— M / s. Amzel Pvt. Ltd ., Bombay was granted the import licence No. EI/ 
0117455 dated 9th November, 1967 for Rs. 23093 / - for the imports of items shown on the 
reverse of this order for the licensing period A . M , 68 from G .C . A . They have applied 
for duplicate copy of Exchange Control Purposes of the abovementioned licence on the 
ground that the original Customs and Exchange Purposes copy of the licence has been lost 
or misplaced . It is further stated that the original licence was registered with Bank of 
Baroda Ltd . Bombay and partly utilised for Rs. 5325 / -. 

In support of this contention , the applicant has filed an affidavit on stamped papers duly 
attested before the Magistrate . I am satisfied that the original licence No . EI /0117455, dated 
9th November, 1967 has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicato exchange pur 
poses copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence No. El/ 
0117455 dated 9th November , 1967 is cancelled . 

[No. 293.95.97.IV /758 /MVP /AM .68 / L .3.] 

I. R . KAKAR , 
Dy . Chief Controller of Imports and exports . 

for St, Chief Controller of Importy & Exports . 


(Office of the Jt. Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

( Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1968 
9.0 . 3845 . — A licence No. P /SS / 1606532 |C |XX |CD |23 : 24 dated 3rd May. 1967 of 
the value of Rs. 3 ,25,000 /- for Import of Endrin Lindane, Dieldrin , Carbahyl etc . for 


Sic , 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 4881 
- - - - - - = = - - - = - - - - - - - - 

- = = - = 
manufucture of insecticides and pesticides was issued to M /s. Agro Chemicals Shed No . 1 , 
Industrial Estate , Ambala , subiect to the condition that all the items of the goods imported 
under it shall be used only in the licence holder s factory at the address shown in the 
application against which licence is issued or may be processed in the factory of another 
manufacturing unit but no portion thereof shall be sold to any other party or utilisod or 
permitted to be uscd in other manner. 


2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No, A - 28 /67 / ENF CLA / 3702, dated 24th July , 1968 
was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in their 
favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Government is satisfied 
that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it has been granted in terms of Clause 9 , 
sub -clause ( cc ) 

3. In response to thc aforesaid show cause notice , M / s . Agro Chcmicals , Shed No . 1 , 
Industrial Estate , Ambala had , by their letter dated 9th August, 1968 furnished a detailed 
explanation and had also asked for personal hearing with thc undçısigned which was 
allowed to their representative on 5th September , 1968 . 

4 . The undersigned has carefully examined the said representation and has come to 
the conclusion that reply of the party is not based on facts and as such the same cannot 
he relied upon . 

5 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore , the undersigned , in cxercise of the powers vested in him undei clause 9 , 
Sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1935 hereby cancel the licence 
No. P / SS / 1606532 / C / XX / CD / 23 : 24 , dated 3rd May, 1967 for Rs. 3 ,25. 000 issued in 
favour of M s , Agro Chemicals , Shed No. 1, Industrial Estate , Ambala , Haryana. 

[No. A - 28 /67/ENF CLA / 5911 ] 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3846 . — M /s . Shamrock Industries, mile 13 / 3 , Mathura Road , P . O . Amar Nagar, 
near Faridabad were granted an import licence No. P / SS / 1608811 / C /XX / 25 / C / D / 25 / 26 
datcd 7th Decembei 1967 for the import of Glassine and Vegetable parchment paper apd 
German silver scrap for General Area for Rs. 10 ,000 / - ( Rupees ten thousand only ) . They 
have applied for the issue of a duplicate copy of the customs nurposes copy thereof on 
the ground that their original copy has been lost /misplaced , without having been utilised 
and without having been registered with any customs house. 

2 . The applicant have filed un affidavit, in sunport of their contention as required under 
para 299 ( 2 ) read with Appendix - 8 of the I. T . C hand book of rules and procedure , 1968 . I 
am satisfied , the original customs purposes copy has been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In cxercise of the powers conferred on me, under clause 9 ( cc ), Import (Control ) 
Order , 1955 , dated 7th Decemher , 1955, as amended upto date . I order cancellation of 
the custonis purposcs cony of the Import Licence No. P / SS / 1608811 / C /XX / 25 / C D / 25 / 26 , 
dated 7th December, 1967 . 

4 . The applicant are now being issued a duplicate copy of the custojas purposes copy 
of the said ininort licence , in accordance with para 299 ( 2 ) , I. T . C hand book of rules and 
procedure . 1968 

[No. F . S -6 / AM . 68 / AU -HRH /GLA /2173 .] 

J. S . BEDT, 
Jt, Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19th September 1968 
S . O . 3847 , - - In excrcise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports (Control) 
Order , 1955 , dated 7th December , 1955 , as amended , the undersigned hereby cancel the 
Exchange Control Purposes Cony of unort Licence No G / AU / 1031979 C / XX /25 / C / H / 24 , 
dated 9th May , 1967 for the import of Laboratory equioments valued at Rs 71, 000 issued 
10 M / s . Indian Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Ltd . ( Antibiotics Projects ), PO Virbhadra 
( Rishikesh ) , UP 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part II 


SL 


= 


= 


= 


The reasons for the cancellation is that the Exchange Control Purposes Copy has been 
Jost / misplaced . 

The licensee has requested for the issue of duplicate copy in licu thereof 


[No. UD / 23 - 1/67-68 / PL.S .] 


S . A . SESHAN , Dy. Chief Controller. 
for Chief Controller vt Imports & Exports. 


(Office of the Dy. Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

Kanpur, the 9th October 1968 
S . O . 3849. - Licence Nos. P / SS / 1583360 and 1583361 both dated 20th May , 1968 of the 
value of Rs. 10 , 000 each issued to M / s . Ram Lal Hari Shanker, S , Industrial Area , 
Hastinapur, Meerut. 

Thercafter a Show Cause Notice No. Enr . 1 ( 128 ) / 1968 /Kan dated 6th September 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 7 days of thọ date of receipt of the 
notice as to why the said licences in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground 
that the factory has closed down and that they will not serve the purpose for which they 
were issued , in terms of clause 9 , sub -clause ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control) Order, 1955 , 
dated 7th December 1955 as amended . 

The above Show Cause Notice has been returned undelivered by the postal authorities 
with the remarks that the address not known . 

The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the conclusion that 
the party have no defence to urge and have avoided a reply . 


Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licences in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered 
ineffective. Therefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the powers vested in him under 
clause 9 , sub -clausc ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control ) Order, 1955 hereby cancel the Licence 
Nos. P /SS / 1583360 and 1583361, dated 20th May , 1968 for Rs. 10 .005 each issued in 
favour of M / s . Ram Lal Hari Shanker, 5, Industrial Aren , Hastinapur. Mecrut. 

[No . ENE.I(128 )/ 1968 /KAN .J 

SARDUL SINGH , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . 


(Office of the Chlof Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S. O . 3849 . - M / 8 . Continental Motors, Girgaum Road , Opera Housc, Bombay - 4, were 
granted an Import Licence No. P /NA / AD / 2018845 / C /XX / 25 / C / H / 21- 22 /NOQ , dated 
18th April, 1967 for Rs. 26 ,063 (Rupees twenty -six thousand and sixty three only ) for the 
import of motor vehicle parts etc . as per list Attached thereto under National Defence 
Remittance Scheme. The licensee has now applied to this office for the issue of a duplicate 
Custom Purposes Copy of the said licence on the ground that the original Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence in question , has been misplaced / lost. It is further stated 
that the original Customs Purposes Copy of the licence has been registered with Bombay 
Port Customs House and has been utilised to the extent of Rs. 6 ,228 . The duplicate 
Customs Purposes Copy of the licence now required by the licensee in for the value of 
Rs. 19 ,835 . 


In support of their contention the licensec have filled an affidavit. I am accordingly 
satisfied that the original /Customs Purposes Copy of the said licence has been lost. 
Therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred under sub -clause 9 ( cc ) of the Impons 
( Control ) Order , 1955 , dated 2nd December , 1955 (as amonded ) , the original Customs 
Purposes Copy of the Licence No . P /NA / AD / 2018845 / C / XX / 25 / C / H / 21- 22 /NQQ , dated 
18th April , 1967 issued to M / s . Continental Motors, Girgaum Road , Opera House , 
Bombay -4 is horoby cancelled . 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4883 

- - = = = - = = - = 
A duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the said licence is being issued separately to 
the licengoe 

[No . NDRS/ C -428 /65-66 / 464 ] 

S. K . GREWAL, 
Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 
- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Dehli, the 14th October 1968 
9 . O . 3850 . - - Wheroas it appears to the Central Government that it is BOXCanary 
in the public interest that for transport of Petroleum between Barauni Refinery in Bidar 
State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh state Pipelines should be laid by the Indian Oil 
Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of layiny such pipeline it is necessary to 
acquire the Right of User in Land of Tahsil Chail , District Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh 
State described in the Schedule annexed hereto . 

( 2 ) Now . therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (i) of section 3 
of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 50 of 1962 ) 
tho Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the right of user thercle . 

(3 ) Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date of this 
Notification , object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the Competent Authority 
at Post Box No. 58 , Allahabad . Every person making such an objection shall also stato 
specifically whether ho wishes to be heared in person or by a legal practitioner , 

SCHEDULE 


State - Uttar Pradesh 


Tehsil — Chail 


- 


Distt. - Allahabad 
- - - - 

Survey No. 


Villige 


Extent B - B - B 


- - - 


- - 


I Usman Pur Maiku 


159 /108 


0 - 1- 0 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


[No. 28(5)/68-10C / OR .] 
R . K . SINHA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 18th October 1988 
. $ . o . 3851. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the 
Constitution , the Presidont hereby makes the following rules further to amend tho Botanical 
Survey of India ( Class III) Recruitment Rules 1964 , namely : 

1 . (1) These rules may be called the Botanical Survey of India ( Class III) Recruitment 
( Amendment ) Rules, 1968. 


. (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazetto. 


2 . In the Schedule to the Botanical Survey of India (Class III ) Recruitmont Rules , 
1964; - in the entries relating to the post of Lower Division Clerk /Steno - typist / Tbre 
Keeper / Store Keeper / Cashier, to the entry in Column 10 the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 10 per cent. of the vacancies in the grade of Lower Division Clerks, to be filled 

by direct recruitment, will be reserved for being filled up by Clas , IV 
employees (borno on regular establishment), subject to the following 

conditions: 
(a ) Selection would be made through a departmental examination confined to such 

Class IV employees who fulfl the requirement of minjmum oducational 
qualification , namely Matriculation or equivalent, 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


4884 THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II -- 
- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 

- - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - 
(b ) The maximum age for this examination would be 40 years (45 yoars ) for 

Scheduled Çaştes /Scheduled Tribes candidates , 
(c ) At least 5 years service in Class IV would be essential. 
(d ) The maximum number of recruits by this method would bo limited to 10 per cent 

of tho vacanclos in the cadre of Lower Division Clerks occurring in a 
year ; unfilled vacancies would not be carried over to the next year ." 

INo . F. 2-39 / 68-SIII .] 

S. K . SANYAL, Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3852. - In exerciso of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 8 of 
the Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the name of the following public institution shall be added to the Schedule to the said Act, 
namcly: 
“ National Council of Educational Research and Training" . 

No . F 1- 17/ 68- NCERT ( A ) ] 
S .O . 3853 In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 8 of the 
Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( 19 of 1925 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
provinions of the said Act shall apply to tho Contributory Provident Fund and General 
Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925 ) , the Central Government liereby directs that the 
Educational Research and Training, New Delhi, with effect from 1st September , 1961 . 

INo . F . 1- 17 / 68- NCERT.]! 

S. P. JAIN, Underi Secy , 


शिक्षा मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 17 अक्टूबर 1968 
एस०प्रो. 3854 ----निर्वाह निधि अधिनियम ( 1925 का 19 ) की धारा 8 की उप 
भारा ( 3 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार यह निर्देश देती है कि 
उक्त अधिनियम की अनसची में निम्नलिरिस्त सार्वजनिक संस्था का नाम शामिल कर दिया जाए। 
अर्थात : 
" राष्ट्रीय शिक्षा अनुसंधान तथा प्रशिक्षण परिषद 

.. [सं० एफ० 1-17/ 684 - एन० सी० ई० पार० टी० ] 
एस . प्रो . 3855 ---निर्वाह निधि अधिनियम, 19 25 ( 1925 का 19 ) की धारा 
, की उपधारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारो का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार यह निर्देश 
देती है कि उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध , राष्ट्रीय शिक्षा अनुसंधान तथा प्रशिक्षण परिषद के 
कर्मचारियों के लाभ के लिए स्थापित अंशदायी निर्वाह निधि तया सामान्य निर्वाह निधि के लिए भी 
1 - 1- 1961 से लागू होगे । 

[ स० एफ० 1 - 17/ 68 - ~एन० सी० ई० भार० टी०] 

शीतल प्रसाद जैन , 
अवर सचिव, भारत सरकार । 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

( Department of Industrial Development) 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1988 
so. 3856. _ The following draft of Rules further to amend the Indian Patents andi 
Designs Rules , 1933 , which the Central Government proposes to make in exerciso of tho 


SEC . 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTEOFINDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 / KARTIKA 11 , 1890 


8 8 


powers conferred by sub -section (1 ) of section 77 of tho Indian Patents and Designs Act, 
1911 (II of 1911 ) is hereby published for the information of the public as required by 
sub- section ( 2 ) of the said section and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after 19th November, 1968. Any comments or suggestions 
on the said draft received before the said date will be taken into consideration , 

Draft Rules 
1. Short Title . These Rules may be called the Indian Patents and Designs ( Amendment ) 
Rules, 1968 , 

2 . In the Indian Patents and Designs Rules , 1933 , under the heading Information after 
rule 63A, the following rule shall be inserted , namely: 
" 63AA. Communication of result of reconsideration under section 788( 3 ): -- The 

Central Government shall communicate the result of very reconsideration 
under sub -section (3 ) of section 78B of the Act to the Controller as soon 
as may be after such reconsideration and the Controller shall within fifteen 
days of the receipt thereof communicate the same in writing to the applicant 
concerned. ". 

[ No. 31(2)- PP & D / 68.] 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy . 


प्रोयोगिक विकास तथा समवाय - कार्य मंत्रालय 

( प्रोयोगिक विकास विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 16 अक्तूबर , 1968 
एस० प्रो० 3857 -- नियमों का निम्नलिखित प्रारूप , भारतीय पेटेंट तथा डिजाइन नियम 
1933 में आगे संशोधन करने के लिये है । केन्द्रीय सरकार भारतीय पेटेंट और डिजाइन अधिनियम 
1911 ( 1911 का 2 ) के खण्ड 77 के उपखण्ड ( 1 ) में प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग कर यह संशोधन 
करना चाहती है । उपरिलिखित खण्ड के उपखण्ड ( 2 ) द्वारा अपेक्षित जनता के सूचनार्थ एतद्वारा 
संशोधन प्रकाशित किया जाता है और एत द्वारा सूचित किया जाता है कि उक्त प्रारूप पर 6 नवम्बर , 
1968 या उसके पश्चात् विचार होगा । इस प्रारूप पर निर्देशित तिथि से पूर्व प्राप्त टिप्पणियों और 
सुझावों पर विचार किया जायेगा । 

नियमों का प्रारूप 
1. सक्षित शीर्षक :--- इन नियमों को भारतीय पेटेंट तथा डिजाइन ( संशोधन ) नियम 
1968 कहा जायेगा । 

2. भारतीय पेटेंट तथा डिजाइन नियम 1933 में सूचना के अन्तर्गत नियम 63 के बाद 
निम्नलिखित नियम निविष्ट किया जायेगा , अर्थात् . -- 

" 63क . धारा 78ख ( 3 ) के अन्तर्गत किये गये पुनर्विचार के परिणाम को सूचित करना। 
केन्द्रीय सरकार अधिनियम की धारा 78ख के : 

के उपखण्ड ( 3 ) के अन्तर्गत किये गये प्रत्येक पुविचार के परिणाम को इस प्रकार . 
के पुनर्विचार के पश्चात् यथाशीघ्र नियंत्रक को भेजेगी और नियंत्रक इसकी प्राप्ति के 15 दिनों 
के अन्दर ही इसकी लिखित सूचना सम्बन्धित आवेदकों को भेजेगा । " 


[ सं० 31 ( 2 )पी० पी० एण्ड डी० / 68 ] 

हरगुनदास , 
अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


4886 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II 


(Department of Industrial Dovelopment) 

(Indian Standardo Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 17th October, 1968 
S . O . 3858. - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks) Rules , 1955 the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifięg that the Standard 
Mark , design of which together with the yerbal description of the design and the title of the relevant 
fadian Standard is given in tho Schedule hereto annexed , has been specified . 

This Standard Mick for the purpose of the Indian Standards Ingtitution (Certification Marks , 
Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder., shall come into force with effect 
from 16 October, 1968 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si. Doign of the 
No , Standard Mark 


Prodct / C1198 

Product 


of 


No, and Title ofthe Verbal description of the 
Relevant Indian Design of the Standard 
Standard 

Mark 


I 


I S 4559 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Recifier type dc arc IS :1559 - 1958 Speci - The monogram of the 
welders 

fication for single Indian Standards Inst 
operator recrifier tution , consisting of 
type dc arc welder letters IŞI , drawn in 

the exact atyle and rela 
tive proportions as in 
dicated in col (2 ), the 
number designation of 
the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side of the 
monogram as indicated 
in the design , 


[No. CMD /13: 9 ] 


S . O . 3859 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards 
Instituțion (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notiflos that making fee per unit for rectifier type dc arc welders, details of which are given in the 
Schodule hereto annexed , has been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect from 
16th October , 1968 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si.Si. 
NO , 


Product/ Class 
Product /Class 

Products 


of 
01 


No. and Title of Relevant 
- Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fee per 

Uolt 


4 


5 


I Rectifier 

wellers 


type de arc 


One arc 
welder set 


R 


IS :4559 - 1968 Specification 

for single operator rc - 

rectifier type dc arc 
welder 


. 5 .00 


- 


- - 


[No. CMD / 13 :10 ] 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4887 


New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 
S . O 386 ) . - In p 1c3uance of sub - regulation ( I ) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
subje 107t up the piblication of IS :4218 (Parts I to VI) - 1967 ISO Metric screw threads, the 
In liaz Sazlards, pirticulars of which arementioned in the Schedule given hereafter , have been 
Cancelled . 

THE SCHEDULE 


No. 


N ) . ani Title of the Indian Standard 

cancelled 


No . and Date of Gazette Notification in which 
Establishment of the Indian Standard was 

Notified 


- 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
I , 19 : 1330 1953 General plan for metric 

screw threads with ISO profilc (Dia - 

mier range 0 . 25 to 305ının ) 
2 . IS : 1362- 1962 D .mensions for screw 

threads for general purposes ( Dia - 
meter range 1 . 6 to 39mm ) (Revised ). 


S . O . 2110 dated 17 September, 1959 , published in 

thc Gazette of India Part II , Section 3 , Sub 

section ( ii) dated 26 September , 1959 . 
S . O . 1147 dated 10 April, 1963, published in the 
Gazette of India Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section 
( li ) dated 20 April , 1968 . 


[No. CMD /13: 7 ) 


ERRATA 

New Delhi, the 14th October 1968 
S . O . CMD 3861/ 13 :8 . - In the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs 
( Indian Standards Institution ) Notifications published in the Gazettes of India , Part II, 
section 3 ( ii ) , tho following corrections be made regarding designs of standard marks : 
1 . Gazette dated 20th April 1968 

S.O . 1369 dated 8 April 1968. – Substitute the following designs for the cxisting oncs 
against cach Sl. No . quoted : 
( a ) SI No. 3 (1) 

(b ) si No. 6 (third design ) 
IS : 1770 

I $ : 2552 


- 


- - - 


Drum only 


(c ) Sl. No . 8 – 


(1 ) 


(2 ) 
S : 779 


IS : 779 


Type B 


Type A 

( 3 ) 
IS : 2548 


IS : 2548 


Type B 


Type A 


4888 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II – 


2 . Gazette dated 25 May 1968 

S.O . 1802 dated 10 May 1968. — Sl. No. 6 (b ) - Substitute the following design for the 
existing one : 

IS : 3055 


3. Gazette dated 8 June 1968 

S.O . 2038 dated 23 May 1968, Schedule . - Sl. No . 1, Col. 2 – Substitue the following 
design for the existing one : 

IS : 3384 


4 . Gazette dated 22 June 1968 

S.O . 2178 dated 6 June 1968, Schedule , Sl. No. 2 , Col. 2 – Sustitute the following 
design for the cxisting one : 

IS :1422 


GREY 
3 . Gazetre dated 3 August 1968 

S .O . 2730 dated 22 July 1968, Schedule , Sl. No . 1, Col. 2 _ Suluiture the following 
design for the existing one : 

IS :3076 


6 . Gazette dated 10 August 1968 

S.O . 2763 dated 26 July 1968, Schedule , Si, No. 1, Col. 2 — Sirbstitute the following 
design for the existing one ; 

IS :828 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 


889 


7. Gazette dated 31st August 1968 

S .O . 2904 datod 8 August 1968 , Schedule , Sl. No. 1, Col, 2 - Insert the following 
design in place of tho letters and figures IS : 1038 : , 

IS : 1038 


8 . Gazette dated 14 September 1968 

S .O . 3148 dated 23 August 1968, Schedule , Si. Nos, 1 to 4, Col. 2 - S ! buiture the 
following designs for the existing ones : 

4 
IS :2365 

IS : 3623 IS : 3829 

IS : 3830 


[ No, CMD /13: 8. ] 
(DR.) A . K . GUPTA , 

Dy . Director General. 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

CO -OPERATION 
(Department of Agriculture) 
New Delhi, the 19th October 1968 


S . O . 3862.- - The following draſt rules , which the Central Government proposes 10 
make, in cxercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) is published , as required by the said section 
for the information of all persons likely to be affeced thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 20th November 1968, 

Any obiections or suggestions which may be received from any person with respoct 
to the said draft before the date 80 specilied , will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


AJOWAN GRADING AND MARKING RULES , 1968 


1. Short 1itle and application — ( 1) Theso rules may be called the Ajowan Scods 
(whole ) Grading and Marking Rules , 1968 , 

(2 ) They shall apply to Ajowan Seeds (whole) ( Trachyspermum ammi) (Linn ) produced 
in India . 
2 . Definitions. In these rules, unless the context otherwise rcquires, 
(A ) " Agricultural Marketing Advisçr” mcans the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 

to the Government of India . 
(b ) " Schedule " means a Schedule appended to these rules, 
3 . Grade Designations.- Grade designation to indicate the quality of Ajowan Seeds shall 
be as set out in column 2 of Schedule II , 

4 . Definition of quality . The quality indicated by the respective grado designations 
shall be as set out against each grade designation in columns 3 to 7 of Schedule II. 


4890 


THE GAZETTE UF INDI 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II - 


5. Grade Designation Marks. - (1) The grado designation marks in the case of ajowap 
seeds (whole ) packed in polytheno or paper bags shall consist of a design incorporating 
thọ number of certificate of Authorisation, the word Agmark and the grade approved by 
the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 


(2 ) The grade designation mark in the case of ajowan seeds (wholo ) packed in con 
talaers of jute or cloth as well as in containers in which sealod ploythene bags of graded 
ajowan steds (whole ) are packed shall consist of a label specifying the grade designation and 
boaring the design consisting of an outline map of India with the word " Agmark " and 
the figurc of the rising sun with tho words “ Produce of India " and TT 
resembling the one ag set out in Schedule I. 


6 . Method of Marking .-- ( 1) The grade designation mark shall be securely afised to , or 
printed, on each container in the manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 


(2 ) In addition to the above , the following particulars 
indelibly marked on each container, namely : 


shall 


also 


be 


clearly 


and 


1. Date of packing in code or plain lettori , 


2 . Lot qumber, and 


3. Not weight. 


(3 ) An authorised packer shall not affix or print any mark (including trado mark ) on a 
container in which Ajowan Seeds are packed which indicates or is likely to indicate a 
quality or grade different from that indicated by the grado designation mark of the article 
unless he obtains the previous approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this 
behalf . 


7 . Method of Packing ( 1 ) Only sound, clean and dry containers made of jute , cloth , 
paper or polythenc, tin or glass shall be used for packing. They shall be free from any 
Insect infestation or fungus contamination and also free from any undesirable smell . 


(2 ) The containers shall be securely closed and sealed in a manner approved by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 


(3 ) Each package shall contain Ajowan Seeds (whole) of one grade designation only . 


& Special conditions of Certificate of Authorisation . In addition to the conditions 
specified in rule 4 of the Gencral Grading and Marking Rules , 1937 , the following special 
conditions shall be observed by authorised packers to the satisfaction of the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser, pamely : 


( 1) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing Ajowan Seeds as 
the Agricultural Marketing Adviser may specify by general or special orders from time to 
time, 


(2 ) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities as may be necessary to the 
Lospecting Officers , duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this behalf to 
discharge their duties under these rules, 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4891 


SCHEDULE I 

( See rule 5) 
Design of the grade designation mark ; 


. 


SAGMARKI 


. 
. 
. 
. 


OWCY 


भारतीप उत्पाद 
165 wuGun G mm 


من 
له 
کبله 
لها 


4892 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 [PART II — 


SCHEDULE II 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designation and definition of the Quality of Ajquan Seeds groun in India 


SpecialCharacteristics 


GencralCharacteristics 


M 


ş . Grade 
No. Designation 


Inorganic 
Foreign 
Matter , 
Percent by 
Weight 
Max . 


Organic 
l orcign 
Matter, 
Percent by 
Wcight 
Max . 


Shrivelled , Moisture , 
Immaturc, Percent by 
Damaged , Weight, Max . 
Discoloured 
and Weevil 
lcd Seeds , 
Percentby 
Weight Max . 


0 : 25 


I 


1. Spcial 
2 . Good 
· Fair 


- 


0.5 
10 


0 : 5 
0.75 

10 


210 
3103.0 


I O 


II . Ajowan Seeds shall 
II. O be : 
IT O (a ) Thc dried ripe 

fruits of the Plant 
botanically known 
as ( Trachysperum 
ammi) (Linn ) have 
the characteristic 
size , shap , colour, 
taste and aroma, 
normal to the ya 

ricty ; 
(b ) free from visible 

mould or insect, 
living or dead ; 
( c ) free from m is 
Lyojo .ir . 


Definitions :-- I. Inorganic Foreign Matter : - Includes sand , carth and dust. 


2 . Organic Foreign Mutter :--- Includes leaf, stem , chaff, other sceds and any 

other vegetable matter . 


3. Sriyelled and Immature Seeds :- Secds that have not propely developed . 


4 . Weevilled Seeds : - - Sceds that are partially or wholly bored or eaten away 

by weevil or other insects . 


5 . Damaged and discoloured Seeds Includes seeds that are cut broken 

damaged and discoloured , damage and discolouration materially affecting 
the quality . 


NOTE --- The ajowan seeds shall also comply with the requirements provided under the 

prevention of Food Adulteration Act , 1954 and the Rules made there inder , 


[No. F . 13 -21/68 - L .A .] 
R . SUBRAMANIAM , Under Secy. 


SEC. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11 , 1890 4893 

A 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH , FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

(Deptt . of Health & Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 8th October 1968 
S . O . 3863. — Whereas the Central Government have , in pursuance of tho provisions 
of clause (e ) of sub - section ( 1) of section 3 of Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 
1956 ), nominated Lt. Gen . B . Bhattacharjya , MBBS, FRCP (Lond), FRCP (Edin ), DPM 
(Eng.), MRCS (Eng.), Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services , New Dolhi, to 
be a member of the Medical Council of India with ellect from the 29th July , 1968, vice 
Lt. Gen . J. R . Vaid expired ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3 of tho 
said Act. the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No . 5 -13 / 59 -MI, 
dated the 9th January , 1960 , namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading " Nominated under clause (e) of sub -section 
( 1) of secion 3 " , for the entry against serial number 2 , the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely: 
" Lt. Gen . B . Bhattachariya , MBBS, FRCP (Lond ), FRCP (Edin ), DPM (Epg.) , 
MRCS (Eng.), Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services , New Delhi" . 

fNo. F . 4 -26 / 67-MPT.] 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3864. — Whereas in pursuance of the provisions of clause ( d ) of sub-section ( 1 ) 
of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), the following 
persons have been elected to be the members of the Medical Council of India with effect 
from the 28th Septeinber, 1968 : 
1. Dr . Nandi Mrinal Kumar, Registration No. 13281, (West Bengal), 67, Dharam 

Tala Street, Calcuttu - 13 . 
2 . Dr. Das Ayuthan Bhuvan , Registration No. 2857 (Madras) Gandhi Road , 

Calicut, Kerala State . 
3 . Dr. Garg Madan Gopal, Registration No. 3422 (East Punjab ), 7, Krishan Nagar, 

Karol Bagh , New Delhi. 
4 . Dr. Ghosh Rabindra Nath , Registration No. 13560 (West Bengal), 9 , Sankritola 

Street, Calcutta - 14 . 
5 . Dr. Bhattacharyya Narendra Nath , Registration No. 12262 (West Bengal), 95 , 

Akhil Mistry Lane, Calcutta -9 . 
6 . Dr. Sathaye Vaman Dinkar, Registration No. 5183 (Bombay ), 502 , Narayan 

Peth , Poona- 2 . 
7. Dr. Nath Sudhangsu Prasad , Registration No. 440 ( Assam ), College Road , P. O . 

Silchar -4 , Cachar (Assam ). 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the 
said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in tho 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5 -13 / 59 -MI, 
dated the 9th January , 1960 , namely : 

In the said notification, for the heading "Nominated under clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of scction 3 read with rule 26 of the Indian Medical Council Rules , 1957 " and the 
entries thereunder, the following heading and entries shall be substituted , namely : 
" Elected under clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3. 
1. Dr . Nandi Mrinal Kumar, Registration No. 13281 (West Bengal), 67, Dharam 

Tala Street, Calcuta - 13 . 
2. Dr. Das Ayuthan Bhuvan , Registration No . 2857 (Madras), Gandhi Road, 

Calicut, Kerala State . 
3 . Dr. Garg Madan Gopal, Registration No . 3422 (East Punjab ), 7 , Krishan Nagar , 

Karol Bagh , New Delhi-5 . 
4 . Dr. Ghosh Rabindra Nath , Registration No. 13560 (West Bengal), 9 , Sankritola 

Street, Calcutta - 14 . 
5. Dr. Bhattacharyya Narendra Nath , Registration No. 12262 (West Bengal), 95 , 

Akhil Mistry Lane, Calcutta -9 . 


4894 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II— . 


Poona- 2 . 
7 . Dr. Natha Sudhangsu Prasad , Registration No. 440 (Assam ), College Road , P .O . 
Suchar - 4 , Cachar (Assam ). 

INo. F . 4 -3 / 65 -MPT. ) 


S . O . 3865. — Whereas the Central Government have in pursuance of the provisions 
of clause ( e ) of sub- section (1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 : 
of 1956 ), nominated Dr. P , K . Duraiswami, Director General of Health Services , Now 
Delhi, to be a member of the Medical Council of India with effect from the 14th August 
1968, vice Dr, C . $ . Patel expired ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section (1 ) of section 3 of the: 
said Act , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No . 5 - 13 / 59 -MI 
dated the 9th January , 1960 namely: 

In the sald notification , under the heading " Nominated under clause (e) of sub-section 
( 1) of section 3 " , for the entry against serial No. 5 , the following entry shall be substituted , 
pamely : 
" Dr. P . K . Duraiswami, Director General of Health Services, New Delhi." . 

[No. F . 4 -23 /68-MPT.) 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1968 
S .O . 3866. — Whereas the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health has, by 
notification No. 17 -43 / 59 -MI, dated the 9th January , 1961, made in exercise of tho 
powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act 
1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), recognised the medical qualification M .D . (University of Illinois , USA ), 
for the purposes of the said Act; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- section ( 1) 
of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), the Central 


July . 1968 or so long as Dr. Visscher Lois Helena who possesses the said qualification , 
continues to work in the Christian Hospital, Kasganj, Uttar Pradesh to which she is 
attached for thu time being for the purposes of teaching research or charitable work , 
whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. Visscher 
Lois Helena shall be limited , provided that the said doctor continues to be enrolled as a 
medical practitioner for the said period in accordance with the law regulating the 
Icgistration of medical practitioners in her country , 
(d ) The maximum number of recruits by this method would be limited to 10 per cent. 

[No . F. 19 -28 /68 -MPT.) 

K . DEO , Under Secy . 


(Deptt, of Health & Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 
S . O . 3867 . The following draft of rules further to amend the Drugs and Cosmetics 
Rules , 1945, which the Central Government proposes to make, after consultation with the 
Drugs Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 
of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ), is published , as required by the said 
sections for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st January , 1969. 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with respect 
to the said draft before the date 50 specified will be considered by the Central 
Government : 

Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Rules, 1968 . 


Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 / KARTIKA 11 , 1890 4895 
S - a 

2 . In the drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 after rule 84 , the following rulo shall be 
inserted , Damely : 
" 84- A . Provision for appeal to the State Government by party whose licence has not 

been granted or renewed ." 
Any person who is aggrieved by the order passed by tho Licensing Authority refusing 
to grant or renew a licence in Form 25 , 25 - A , 25 - B , 26 , 26 - A , 26 - B , 28 and 28 - A may 
within thirty days from the date of receipt of such onder, appeal to the State Government 
and the State Government may, after such enquiry into the matter as it considere nocessary 
and after giving the said person an opportunity for representing his views in the inutter, 
make such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit." 

[No. F . 1- 15 /63- D . ] 


(Drugs Section ) 

New Delhi, the 26th October 1968 
$ . O . 3868 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 and 33 of the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act , 1949 (23 of 1940 ) , the Central Government, after consultation with the Drugs 
Technical Advisory Board , hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Drugs. 
and Cosmetics Rulcs , 1945 , the same having been previously published , as required by the 
said sections , panely : 

1. Theso rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Third Amendment) Rules, 
1968, 
2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 , (herein - After referred in as the said Rules ), 
in rule 69 - A , after sub -rule ( 3 ) , the following sub - rule shall be added , namely : 
(4 ) If the licensing authority is satisfied that a loan licence is defaced , damaged 

or lost or otherwise rendered useless, be may, on payment of a fee of 

Rupees twentyfive issue a duplicate licence . ; 
3. For rule 74 of the said rules , the following rule shall be substituted , namely ; 

" 74 -Conditions of licence in Form 25 . - A licence in Form 25 shall be subject to the 
conditions stated therein and to the following further conditions, namely ; 
(a ) the licenscc shall provide and maintain staff, premises and equipment ag specificd 

in rule 71; 
(b ) the licensee shall comply with provisions of the Act and of these rules and 

with such further requirements, if any, as may be specified in any rules sub 
sequcntly made under Chapter IV of the Act : provided that where such 
further requirements are specified in the rules , these would come into forco , 

four months after publication in the Official Gazette. 
(c ) The license shall either in his own laboratory or in any other laboratory 

approved by the licensing Authority test each batch or lot of the raw 
upaterial used by him for the manufacture of his products and also cacb 
batch of the final product and shall maintain records or registers showing 
the particulars in respect of such tests specified in Schedule U . The records 
or registers shall be retained for a period of FIVE YEARS from tho dato 

of manufacture . 
( d ) the licensec shall keep records of the details of manufacture as per particulars 

given in Schedule U of each batch of the drugs manufacture by him and 

such records shall be retained for a period of five years . 
( e ) the licensce shall allow any Inspector, authorised by the licensing authority in 

that behalf , to cnter, with or without prior notice , any premises and to 
inspect the plant and the process of manufacture and the means cmployed 

in standardising and testing the drugs . 
(1) the licensee shall allow an Inspector, authorised by the licensing authority under 

the provisions of clause (e ) to inspect all registers and records maintained 
nder these rules and to take samples of the manufactured drugs and shall 
supply to such Inspector such information as he may require for the purpose 
of ascertaining whether the provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder 

have been observed. 
( ) the licensce shall , from time: to time, report to the licensing authority any 

changes in the expert staff responsible for the manufacture or testing of the 
drugs and any material alterations in the premises or plant used for the 
purpose which have been mado since tho date of the last inspection mado 
on behalf of the licensing authority , 


4896 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II 


( a ) the licensee shall on request furnish to the licensing authority or such authori 

ries as the licensing authority may direct, from every batch of the drug, or 
from such batch or batches of drugs as the licensing authority may from 
time to the specify , a sample of such quantity as the authority may consider 
adequate for any examination and if required fullprotocols of the tests 

which have been applied. 
( ) If the licensing authority so directs and if requested by the licensce who had 

also furnished prima fucie reasons for such directions, the license shall not 
sell or offer for sale any batch in respect of which a sample is or protocols 
are furnished under clause ( h ) until a certificato authorising the sale of the 

batch has been issued to him by or on behalf of the licensing authority . 
(is the licensee shall on being informed by the licensing authority that any part of 

Any batch of the drug has been found by the licensing Authority not to con 
torm with the standards of strength , quality or purity Specified in these rules 
and on being directed so to do , withdraw the remainder of the batch from 
safe and so far as may in the particular circumstances of the case be 

practicable , recall all issucs already made from that batch . 
(k ) the licensee shall maintain an Inspection Book in form 35 to enable on Inspec 

Tor to record his impressions and the defects noticed ," ; 
4 . In Rulo 74-1 of the said rules , 

(i) for clause ( d ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
(rt ) " The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules and 

with such further requiremonts, if any, as may be specified in any rules sub 
sequently made under Chapter IV of the Act ; Provided that where such 
turther requirements are specified in the rules, those would come into force 

four months after publication in the Official Gazette . 
( ii ) for clause ( f) the following clause shall be substituted namely : 
(f) The licensee shall , either in his own laboratory or , in any other laboratory 

approved by the Licensing Authority , test each batch or lot or raw material 
used by him for repacking and also each batch of the product thus repacked 
and shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars in respect of 
such tests as specified in Schedule U . The records or registers shall be re 
tained for a period of FIVE YEARS from the date of repacking. The 
licensee shall allow the Inspector to inspect all registers and records main 
rained under these rules and shall supply to the Inspector such information 
as he may require for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of 
the Act and these rules have been observed . 


5. After rule 74 - A of the said rules , the following rule shall be inserted , naniely : - - 


" 74 - B : 


" Conditions of license in Form 25- 1 : 


( 1 ) Th - license in Form 25 - A shall be deçmed to be cancelled or suspended , if 

the licence owned by the licensee in Form 25 whose manufacturing facili 
ties have been avajled of by the licensee is cancelled or suspended as the 

case may be, under these rules. 
12 ) The licenscc shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules 

and with such further requirements if any , as may be specificd in any rules 
subsequently made uncler Chapter IV of the Act, provided that where such 
further requirements are specifiod in the rules , these would come in to 

force four months after publication in the Official Gazelle . 
( 3 ) The licenscc shall test each batch or lot of the raw material used by him for 

the manufacture of his products and also cach batch of the final product 
And shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars in respect 
of such tests as specificd in Schedule U . The records or registers shall be 
retained for a period of FIVE YEARS from the dato of manufacture , 
The liccnsce shall allow an Inspector to inspect all registers and records 
maintained under these rules and shall supply to the Inspector such informa 
tion as he may require for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provi 

sions of the Act and those rules have been observed . 
( 4 ) Tho license shall either ( i) provide and maintained to the satisfaction of the 

licensing authorities adequate staff and adequate laboratory facilitics for 
carrying out tests of the strength , quality and purity of the substances 
manufactured by him or ( ii) make arrangements with some institution 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4897 

- - - . : - - 
approved by the licensing authority for such tests to be regularly carried 
out on his behalf by the institution " . 


6 . In rule 75- A of the said rules after sub -rule (3 ) , following sub -rule shall be inserted , 
namely :-- - 


" ( 4 ) If the licensing authority is satisfied that a loan licence is defaced , damaged 

or otherwise rendered useless , he may , on payment of a fee of rupees sevonty 
livo , issue a duplicate licence ." ; 


7 . In rule 78 of the said rules, 


(i ) for clause ( c ) , the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 


(c ) ( i) The licensee shall maintain records of manufacture as per particulars 

given in Schedule U . 


( ii) The licensce shall either in his own laboratory or in any laboratory approved 

by the licensing authority test cach batch or lot of the raw material used 
by him for the manufacture of his product and also each batch of the 
final product and shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars 
in respect of such tests as specified in Schedule U . The records or regis 
ters shall be retained in the case of a substance for which a potency dato 
is fixed for a period of two years from the expiry of such date , and in 
the case of other substances for a period of five years from the date of 
manufacture . 


( ii) for clause (k ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely: 
" (k ) thc licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules. 

and with such further requirements , if any, as may be specifiod in any 
miles subscquently made under chapter IV of the Act, provided that where 
such further requirements are specified in thc rules, those would come 
into force four months after publication in the Official Gazette ." . 


8 . After rule 78 of the said Rules , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 78 - A Conditions of License in Form 28 - 8 
( 1) The licensee in Form 28 - A shall be deemed to be cancelled or suspended , if 

the licence owned by the licensee in Form 28 whose inanufacturing facill 
ties have been availed of by the licenscę is cancelled or suspended , as the 

case may be, under these rules. 
(2 ) The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules 

and with such further requirements if any, as may be specified in any 
rules subsequently made under chapter IV of the Act, provided that where 
such further requirements are specificd in the rules , those would come into 

Corce four months after publication in the Official Gazette . 
( 3 ) The licensee shall test each batch or lot of the raw material used by him for 

the manufacture of his products and also each batch of the final product 
and shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars in respect 
of such tests as specified in Schedule U . Records or registers shall be 
rctained , in the case of a substance for which a potency date is fixed , for 
a period of two years from the expiry of such date and in the case of 
other substances, for a period of five years from the date of manufacture . 
The licensce shall allow an inspector to inspcct all registers and records 
maintained under these rules and shall supply to the Inspector such 
information as he may require for the purpose of ascertaining whether 

the provisions of the Act and these rules have beon observed . 
(4 ) The licensee shall either (i) provide and maintain to the satisfaction of the 

licensing authority adequate staff and adequato laboratory facilitics for 
carrying out tests of the strength , quality and purity of the substances 
manufactured by him or ( ii ) make arrangements with some institution 
approved by the licensing authority for such tests to be regularly carried 
out on his behalf by the institution , 


4808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 [PART II 


9 . After Schedulo T of the said rules, the following schedule shall be added , oamely : - - 

" SCHEDULE U " 

(See rules 74, 74 - A , 74- B , 78 and 78 - A ) 
1. Particulars to be shown in Manufacturing Records . 

A . Substances other than Parenteral preparation in general. 

1. Serial Number . 
2 . Name of the product . 
3 . Lot / Batch sizo . 
4 . Lot / Batch Number, 
5. Date of commencement of manufacture and date when manufacture was 

completed. 
6 . Names of all ingredients, quantities required for the lot / batch size , quantities 

actually used , (All weighing and measurements shall be checked and 

initialled by the competent porson in the Section ). 
7 . Control reference numbers in respect of raw materials used in formulation . 
8. Date of mixing in case of dry products c. . powder, powder mixture for capsule 

products , etc . 
9, Date of granulation wherever applicable . 
10 . Weight of granules. 
11. Date of compression in case of tablets / date of filling in case of capsules. 
11A . Dates of coating wherever applicable . 
12 . Records of test to be carried out in case of tablets as under : 

(a ) Average weight every thirty minutes. 

(b ) Distintegration time as often as practicable . 
13. Records of readings taken to check weight variation in case of capsules. 
14 . Reference to Analytical Report number stating whether of standard quality or 

otherwise , 
15. Records on the disposal of rejected batches and batches withdrawn from the 

market . 
16. Actual production and packing particulars indicating the size and quantity of 

finished packings. 
17 . Date of release of finished packing for distribution or sale . 
18 . In case or Hypodermic tablets and opthalmic preparations which are required to 

be manufactured under asoptic conditions records shall be maintained 
indicating the precautions taken during tho process of manufacture to ensure 

that aseptic conditions are maintained . 
19 . Signature of the Expert Staff responsible for the manufacture . 


B . Parenteral preparations , 

1. Serial Number. 
2 . Name of the product. 
3 . Lot size . 
4 . Batch number (if bulk lot is divided into various batches and processed separately , 

a batch number distinctly different from that of the bulk lot should be 

assigned to each of tho processed batch ). 
5. Date of commencement of manufacture and date of completion . 
6 . Name of all Ingredients, quantities required for the lot size . quantities actualy 

uşed . (A11 weighings and measurements shall be checked and initiallod by 

the competent person in the section ) . 
7. Control reference numbers in respect of raw material used . 
8. PH of the Solution wherever applicable . 
9 . Date and methods of filtration . 
10 . Sterility test reference on bulk batch wherever applicable . ( If bulk tot is divided 

into various batches and processed separately , a batch number distinctly . 


Sec. 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4899 


different from that of the bulk lot should bo assigned to cach of the 

processed batch ). 
11 . Dato of filling . 
12 . Records of tests eniployed : - 

(a ) To ensure that sealed ampoules are leak -proof. 
( b ) To check the presence of foreign particles, 

(c) For pyrogens wherever applicable. 
13 . Records of sterilisation in case of parenteral preparations which are heat sterilised 

including particulars of time, temperature and pressure cmployed . 
14 . Number and size of containers filled and number rejected . 
15. Reference to Analytical Report numbers stating whether of standard quality or 

otherwise . 
16 . Records of the disposal of rejected batch and batches withdrawn from the 

market . 
17. Actual production and packing particulars . 
18. Date of release of finished packings for distribution or sale. 
19 . Particulars regarding thọ precautions taken during manufacture to ensure that 

aseptic conditions are maintained . 
20 . Control reference numbers in respect of the lot of glass containers used for 

filling. 
21. Signature of the Expert Staff responsible for manufacturo. 


II. Records of raw materials 
Records in respect of each raw material shall be maintained indicating the quantity 

received , control reference numbers , the quantitics issued from time to time, 
the names and batch Nos . of the products for the manufacture of which 
the quantities have beco issued and the particulars relating to the proper 
disposal of the stocks . 


III. Particulars to be recorded in the analytical records 
A . Tablets and capsules. 

1 . Analytical report number. 
2 . Name of the sample. 
3 . Date of receipt of sample . 
4 . Batch /Lot Number . 


5 . Protocols of tests applied . 

(a ) Description . 
( b ) Identification . 
(c ) Uniformity of weight. 
(d ) Uniformity of diameter ( if applicable ), 
(e) Disintegration Test (time in minutes). 
(0) Any other tests. 
( g) Results of assay , 
NOTES. — Records regarding various tests applied ( including reading and calcu 

lations) should be maintained and neecssáry reference to these records 

should be entered in Column 5 abovo whenever necessary , 
6. Signature of the Analyst . 
7 . Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 


B . Parenteral Preparations . 

1. Analytical report number . 
2 . Name of the sample . 


4900 


= 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA ! 1 , 1890 ( PART II 
= = = = = = = = = = 

= = = = 

= = = 
3 . Batch number. 
4 . Date of reecipt of sample. 
5 . Number of container filled . 
6 . Number of container received , 
7 . Protocols of Tests applied . 

(a ) Clarity . 
(b ) PH wherever applicablo 
( c ) Identification . 
(d ) Volume in container. 
(c ) Sterility - (i) Bulk sample wherever applicable (ü ) container sample . 
(1) Pyrogen Test wherever applicable. 
(8 ) Toxicity test wherever applicable . 
(b ) Any other tests . 
(i) Results of Assay . 
NOTE , - Records regarding various tests applied (including readings ld calcula 

tions ) should be maintained and necessary reference to these records 
should be entered in column 7 above , wherever necessary . 


8 . Signature of the Analyst. 
9 . Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 


Pyrogen Test . 
1. Test Report Number . 
2 . Name of sample . 
3 . Batch Numbor. 
4 . Number of rabbits used . 
5 . Weight of cach rabbit, 
6 . Normal temperaturo of cach rabbit. 
7 . Mean initial temperature of each rabbit. 
8 . Dose and volume of solution injected into each rabbit and time of injection .. 
9. Temperature of each rabbit noted at suitable intervals. 
10 . Maximum temperature. 
11, Respongo . 
12 , Summed Responso . 
13. Signature of the Analyst , 
14. Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 


Toxicity Test. 
1. Test Report Number. 
2 . Name of the sample. 
3 . Batch Number. 
4 . Number of mice used and weight of each mouse. 
5. Strength and volume of the drug injected . 
6 . Date of injection . 
7. Results and remarks, 
8 . Signature of Analyst. 
9 . Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst 


C , For other drugs. 

1. Analytical report number . 
2 . Namo of the samplo. 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/ KARTIKA 11 , 1890 4901 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
3 . Batch /Lot number. 
4 . Dato of receipt of sumple . 
5 . Protocols of test applied . 

(a) Description . 
(b ) Identification . 
(c) Any other tests . 
( d ) Results of assay. 
NOTE . — Particulars regarding various tests applied ( including readings and calcu 

lations) shall be maintained and necessary reference to theso records shall 

bo entered in Column 3 above , wherever nccessary . 
6 . Signature of the Analyst. 

7 . Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 
D . Raw Materials . 

1. Serial Number. 
2 . Name of tho material. 
3. Name of the manufacturer/ supplier. 
4 . Quantity received . 
5 . Invoice / Challan Number and date . 
6 . Protocols of tests applied . 
NOTE. — Particulars regarding various tests applied ( including reading and calcu 

lations) shall be maintained and necessary reference to these records shall 

be ontered in Column 6 above, whenever necessary . 
E . Container, Packing Material, etc. 

1. Serial Number. 
2 . Name of the item . 
3 . Name of the manufacturer /supplier . 
4 . Quantity received . 
5 . Invoice / Challan number and date . 
6 . Results of tests applied . 
NOTE . — Particulars regarding various tests applied shall be maintained and neces 

sary reference to these records shall be entered in column 6 above , whenever 

necessary . 
7 . Remarks. 
8 . Signaturo of the examiner . 
NOTE.- - 1. The foregoing provisions represent the minimum requirements to be 

complied with by the licensee. The Licensing Authority , inay, however , 
direct the nature of records to be maintained by the licensee for such 

products as are not covered by the categories described above . 
2 . The Licensing Authority may permit the licensce to maintain records in such 

manner as arc considered satisfactory , provided the basic requirements 

laid down above are complied with . 
3 . Thc Licensing Authority may at its discretion direct the licensec to maintain 

records for such additional particulars as it may consider neccesary in the 
circumstances of a particular case ." 

[ No. F . 1- 20 /64-Drugs.] 


S . O . 3869 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs 
and Cosmetics Act , 1940 (23 of 1940 ), the Central Government, after consultation with 
thc Drugs Technical Advisory Board , hereby makçe the following rules further to amend 
tho Drugs and Cosmetics Rules , 1945 , the same having boca previously published as 
required by the said sections, namely : 
1. (1) These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Second Amendment) 

Rules, 1968 . 


4902 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II- - 


( 2 ) These shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Oficial 

Gazette . 
2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 , hereinafter referred to as the said rules , 
in rule 30AA , in the Explanations , after the words the Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeias of 
the United States or the United Kingdom , the words for the German Homoeopathic 
Pharmacopocia shall be inserted . 
3 . In the said rules, for rule 44 , the following rule shall be substituled , namely : 
" 44 . Qualifications of Government Analyst. - A person appointed as a Government 

Analyst under the Act shall be a person who, - - 
( a ) is a graduate in medicine or science or pharmacy or pharmaceutical chemistry 

of a University recognised for this purpose by the appointing authority 
and has had not less than thrço years post- graduate experience in the 
anlysis of drugs in a laboratory under the control of (1) a Governinent 
Analyst appointed under the Act, or (i ) a Fellow of the Royal Institute 
of Chemistry of Great Britain ( Branch E ), or ( iii) the head of an Institu 
tion or testing laboratory approved for the purpose by the appointing 

authority , or 
(b ) possesses the Associateship Diploma of the Institution of Chemists (India ) 

obtained by passing the said examination with Analysis of Drugs and 
Pharmaceuticals as one of the subjects and has had not less than two 
years post- graduate experience in the analysis of drugs in a laboratory 
under the control of (i) a Government Analyst appointed under the Act, 
or ( ii) a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain 
( Branch E ), or ( ii) the head of an Institution or testing laboratory 

approved for the purpose by the appointing authority : 
(c ) is a fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain ( Branch E ). 
Provided that 
(1) for the purpose of examination of items included in Schedule C , the person 

appointed should be able to produce evidence of satisfactory training in 
physiology, bacteriology or serology or pathology or pharmacology or 
microbiology and should have not less than three years experience of 
testing biological products included in Schedule C in an institution or 

testing laboratory approved by the appointing authority ; 
( ii ) for a period of four years from the date on which Chupter IV of the Act 

takes effect in the States , persons, whose training and experience are 
regarded by the appointing authority as affording , subjcct to such further 
training , if any , as may be considered necessary , it reasonable guarantee 
of adequate knowledge and competence , may be appointed as Government 
Analysts. The persons so appointed may, if the appointing puthority so 

desires , continuo in service after the expiry of the said period of four years ; 
(lil ) no person who is cngaged directly or indirectly in any trade or business 

connected with the manufacture of drugs shall be appointed as a Govern 

ment Analyst for any arca " . 
4 . In the said rules, in rule 65, in sub -rule ( 16 ) after the words " Inspection Book " 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted , namely :-- - 

" in Form 35" . 
5 . In the said rules, in rule 71, in sub -rule ( 1 ) , after thc proviso , the following further 
proviso shall be inserted , namely : 
" Provided further that the Licensing Authority may , in the matter of manufacture 

of diginfectant fluids, insecticides , liquid paraffin , medicinal gasses, non 
chemical contraceptives, plaster of Paris and surgical dressings , for the 
manufacture of which the knowledge of Pharmaceutical chemistry or Phar 
macy is not cssential, permit the manufacture of the substance under the 
active direction and personal supervision of the competent technical staff , 
who, although not having any of the qualifications included in clauses (a ). 
( b ) or ( c ) of this rule, hus, in the opinion of the Licensing Authority , 

adequate experience in the inanufacture of such substanca " 
6 . In the said rules, in rulo 74 , in clause ( f) after the words " Inspection Book " 
wherever they occur , the following words and Algures shall be inserted , namely : 

" in Form 35 " 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4903 

- — - . -- = - = - . - . - = = - = ; .. - - . - -- - -- - - - - - - - 

7. In the said rules, in rule 74 - A , after clause (f ) the following clause shall by inserted, 
namely : 
" ( g ) the licensee shall maintain an inspection Book, in Form 35 , to enable an 

Inspector to record his impressions and tho defects noticed " . 
8 . In the said rules, in rulc 78 , in sub - rulc ( 1 ) , after the words " Inspection Book " 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted , namely : 

" in Form 35 ". 
9 . In the said rules, in rule 85H in clause (d ) after the words " Inspection Book: 
whorever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inscrted , namely : 

" in Form 35" . 
10 . In the said rules, in rule 96 , in sub -rule (1), in sub-clauso (v ), the words " manu 
factured in India " shall be omitted , 

11. In the said rules, in rule 142 , in clause (f ) after the words " Inspection Book " 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted , namely: -- 

" in Form 35" . 
12 . In the said rules, in Schedule A (i) in Form 8 , for the figures "XXVII", tho 
figures " XXIII" shall be substituted . 
( ii) after Form 34, the following Form shall be inserted , namely : 

" FORM 35 
( See rules 65, 74, 74A , 78, 85H and 142 ). 
Form in which the Inspection Book shall be inaintained 
A . The cover of the Inspection Book shall contain the following particulars, namely :-- 

1. The name and adddress of the Licensee , . . . . . . 
2 . Licenco number and the date upto which the licence is valid . . . 


B , (i ) The pages of the Inspection Book shall be serially numbered and duly stamped 
by the Licensing Authority . The pages, other than the first and the last pages , shall have 
the following particulars :-- - 
Name and designation of the Inspector who inspects thc prçmiscs of the 

Licensee . . . . . . . . . 
Date of Inspection . . . . 
Observations of the Inspector . . . . . . . 

Signature of the Inspector. 
(ü ) The first and last pages, of the Inspection Book shall be endorsed by the Licensing 
Authority with tho following words, namely : 
Inspection Book maintained by M / s . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

situated at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for licence number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in 
Form . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . under Drugs and Cosmetic Rules. 

Seal and signature of the Licensing Authority . 
Noles . — ( i) Printed copy of the Inspection Book may be obtained by the licensee 

from the Licensing Authority on payment. 
(i ) The Inspection Book shall be maintained at the premises of the Licensee . 
( iii ) The observations made by the Drugs Inspector shall be in triplicate . The 

original copy shall be retained in the Inspection Book to be maintained in the 
premises of the Licensee . The duplicate . copy shall be sent to the Licensing 

Authority . The triplicate copy shall be taken as record by the Inspector." 
14. In the said rules, (i) in Schedule C , for entry 12, the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" 12 . Any other preparation which is meant for parenteral administration ng such 

or after being mude up with a solvent or medium or any other sterilo pro 

duct and which 
( 2 ) requires to be stored in a refrigerator; or 
(b ) does not require to be stored in a refrigerator." 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 [ PART II-- - 

W I - - - - - - - - - 
15. In the said rules, in Schedule F , in part LX , for the leading " Any other preparations 
in a form to be administered parenterally " , the following heading shall bc Substituted , 
namely : 
" Any other preparations including water for injection in a form to be administered 

Darenterally " . 
16 . In the said rules , for Schedulo J, the following Schedule shall be substituted , 
namely : 

" SCHEDULE ) 


rng may nor purport in 


( See rule 106 ) 
Diseases and ailments (by whatever namie describeu ) which a 

prevent or cure 
1. Appendicitis . 
2. Arteriosclerosis. 
3 . Blindness. 
4 . Blood Poisoning. 
5 . Bright s disease . 
6 . Cancer , 
7 . Cataract. 
8 . Deafness. 
9 . Diabetes. 
10 . Discascs and disorders of the optical system , 
11. Diseases and disorders of the brain . 
12. Diseases and disorders of the uterus. 
13. Disorders of menstrual flow . 
14 . Disorders of the nervous system . 
15 . Disorders of the prostatic gland . 
16 . Dropsy . 
17 . Epilopsy. 
18. Female diseases (in general). 
19 . Fevers (in general). 
20 . Fits . 
21. Gall stones, kidney stones and bladder stones. 
22 . Gangrene. 
23. Glaucoma. 
24 . Goitre . 
25 . Heart diseases. 
26 . High or low blood pressure . 
27 . Hydrocele . 
28 . Hysteria . 
29 . Infantile paralysis 
30. Insanity . 
31. Leprosy . 
32 . Leucoderma. 
33 . Lockjaw . 
34 . Locomotor Ataxia . 
35. Lupus. 
36 . Nervous debility . 
37 . Obesity. 
38 . Paralysia. 
39 . Plague. 


. 


- 


= 


-. . .. 


S 


- .. 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 4905 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 

40 . Pleurisy . 
41 . Pneumonia . 
42 . Rheumatism . 
43. Rupturca. 
44 . Sexual impotence, 
45. Smallpox , 
46 . Sterility in women . 
47 , Trachoma. 
48 . Tuberculosis . 
49. Tumours. 
50 . Typhoid fever. 
51 . Ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract. 
52 . Venereal diseases , including syphilis , gonorrhoea , soft chancre , venereal granu , 

loma and lympho granuloma)" . 


[No . F . 1- 14 / 68 - D .] 


L , K . MURTHY, Under Secy. 


.. - - . 


- . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT & REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour & Employment) 
New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 


S .O . 3870 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the Calcutta Unregistered 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957 , the same having been previously 
published as required by the said sub - section , namely : 


1 . This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation 
of Employment) Third Amendment Scheme, 1968. 


2 . In claușc 6 - A of the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employ 
mcnt) Scheme, 1957 , after item (c ), the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( d ) kceping and maintaining , from time to time, a list of dock workers and removing 

from the list the name of a dock worker either at his own request or in 
accordance with the provisions of this Scheme" . 


[No. 61 / 2 / 68 -Fac. IT.1 


J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 


$ . o . 3871, - Jn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publiybes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the said Act from Shri C . R . Goswami, Fitter (Electrical) Nandini Mincs Clo 
Secretary , S . K . M . Sangh , Post Office Nandini Mines, District Durg (Madhya Pradesh ), 
which was received by the Central Government on the 9th October , 1968 


Goswami matter opting awards Act, 1947 (l 


4806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II. . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 


Dated , August 28 , 1968 


PRESENT 
Sri G . C . Agarwala - - Presiding Officer, 

( 1) Case No. CGIT / L.C ( B ) ( 1) /68 U /S 33 (2 ) (b ) I.D . ACT. 
[ Arising out of Case Ref. No . CGIT /LC(R )(151)/67.] 
PARTIES: 
Agent / Superintendent, Ore Mines and Quarrios , Bhilai Steel Plant. Bhilai, Distt . 

Durg ( M .P . ) — Applicant 


Shri C . R . Goswami, Fitter / Electrical, Nandini Mincs Opposite Party . 

( 2 ) CASE NO . CGIT / LC ( A ) ( 1 ) / 68 U / S 33 - A I. D . ACT, 
(Arising out of Case Ref. No. CGIT / LC ( R ) (151) /67.] 
PARTIES : 

Shri C , R . Goswami, Fitter ( Elec .), Nandini Mines C / o Secretary , S. K , M . Sangh , 
P .O . Nandini Mines, Distt ., Durg (M .P .) - Complainant. 

Vs. 
The Superintendent, Ore Mincs Quarries, Bhilai Stcel Plant, Bbilai, District Durg 

( M . P . ) . - Opposite Party . 
APPEARANCES : 
For Bhilal Steel Plant — S /Sri M . R . Raju , Senior Labour Officer & K . G . Marar, 

Asstt. Law Officer . 
For Sri Goswami_ Srl P . K . Thakur, Vice President, S. K . M . Sangh . 
INDUSTRY : Lime Stone 

DISTRICT : DURG (M . I .) 

ORDER / AWARD 
Those are two cases which have been consolidated by an order dated 
3n April , 1968. The management of Bhilai Steel Plant through tho Agent /Superinten 
dent Oro Mines and Quarries filet an application under Sec. 33( 2 ) ( b ) I. D . Act against 
the Opposite Party , Sri C . R . Goswami, Electrical Fitter. Nandini Mines, for approval 
of an action of removal from service which did not disqualify him for futuro employ . 
ment on 28th December , 1967, Beforo notice in the case could reach the Opposite Party , 
Sri C . R . Goswami. to be hereinafter called Goswami, Aled an application under Sec . 33- A 
against the aforeşald Superintendent complaining of the contravention of provisions of 
Sec . 33 I. D . Act, not having been aware that the management had already moved an 
application for approval of the action because of the pendency of case Ref . No . 151 / 
1967. Tho application by the management under Sec . 33 ( 2 )(b ) I. D . Act was made the 
leading and evidence was recorded in that case, Sri Goswami. the Opp . Party , was 
charge -sheeted on a report of Sri K . N . Pathenkar. Asstt. Electrical Engineer, uodor whom 
he was a Fitter complaining that on 3r1 May, 1967 at about 9 A . M . while he was at the 
Control Room , Goswami had first demanded the reason why ho had written a letter 
dated 2nd May, 1967 for his absence on duty and on his replying that he had done it on 
a report received . Goswami flared up , abused him filthily and agsaulted him by holding 
his chin and pushing him back . The incident was witnessed by two other Electrical 
Fitters S / Sri B . G . Kotwani and K . C . Saxena and by Sri S . C . Biswas, Chargeman. On 
the report of the Asst. Engineer , Sri K . N . Patherikar ( Ex. E / 1 ) Sri T . P . M . Sunderam 
Mines Manager guspended Goswami on 4th May , 1967 (Ex . E / 2 ). He was charge 
sheeted on 10th May, 1967 for using abusive language pulling Sri Pathenkar by the chin 
and pushing him as also for threatening him ( Ex. E / 3 and E / 3A ) . Sri Goswami by his 
reply dated 17th May , 1967 ( Ex. E / 4 ) denied the allegations and complained that he 
wag being victimised . He is Vice President of the Branch Union , S . K . M . Sangh , and 
took an active part in union activities and had even gone on hunger strike . Officers of 
the managnment were hoştile to him and therefore , he was being denjat promotion and 
harassed . The Superintendent, Sri K . K . Sengupta , ordered constitution of an Enquiry 
Committee with Sri Jai Kumar, Personnel Officer , as Enquiry Officer , on 27th June . 1967 
( Ex . E / 5 ) . The Enquiry Officer held enquiry on two dates, the first on 11th August, 1967 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4907 


- 


- - 


and the second on 25th August, 1967. In the enquiry , Goswami was represented by 
Sri C . R , Buxi, who is President of the Union . There was no special representative of the 
management. It may be mentioned that before the charge - sheet there was a fact finding 
Proliminary enquiry by a committco comprising of two ofllcers and in that enquiry , besides 
Sri K . N . Pathenkar, S /Srị K , C . Saxena, B . G , Kotwani, and S . C . Biswas, had been 
oxamined (Ex. E / 12 ). It is on the basis of this preliminary enquiry which was held on 
the same date on which the incident took place i.e . 3rd May , 1967, that on report of 
tho Mines Manager , the Opposite Party was charge - shceted . In tho domestic enquiry 
these very witnesses , namely S / Sri K , C . Saxena, B . G . Kotwani and S . C . Biswas, wero 
examined . They were , however, not examined afresh but their statements recorded in 
the proliminary enquiry were read over and copied out in domestic enquiry . The represen 
tative of the Opposite Party thereafter cross - examined the witnesses. After the conclusion 
of the management s witnesses , two witnesses were examined by Gogwami. One waş Sri 
Dhanraj Singh Yaday who stated that he had no knowledge and was not an eye witness. 
Another witncas , Sri Jogendra Singh , however, supported the version of Goswami that 
on receipt of the warning letter in the morning of 3rd May, 1967, both S / Sri Goswami 
and Pathenkar entered the Control Room of the Crushing Plant and Goswami enquired 
from Sri Biswas in presence of Sri Pathenkar, if he had reported against him on the 
previous date about absence from duty . Sri Biswas replied in piegative . Goswami 
thereafter only charged Sri Pathenkar for falsely concocting evidence so as to debar his 
promotion . Nothing further occurred and Sri Pathenkar left the room . After the state 
ment of Goswami and his witnesses had been recorded, his representative filed a note of 
written arguments on the same date wbich was 25th August, 1967. "The Enquiry Officer 
then recorded & finding ( Ex. E / 10 ) on 30th August, 1967 and in consequence of which 
the order of removal was passed on 28th December , 1967 (Ex . E / 11). It may be 
mentioned that the application for approval was filed simultaneously wud 30 was the 
tender made for payment of one month s wages. 
. 2 . Goswami in his reply challenged the domestic cnquiry as having been unfair and 
impartial. It was alleged that the Enquiry Officer cross- examined extensively witnesses 
of both parties and the finding was perverse . It was further contended that the proviso 
to Sec . 33 ( 2 ) (b ) had not been complied with a fact which was not pressed in arguments 
and has not been shown how the proviso has not been complicd with . It was next 
pleaded that the Agent /Supdt. Oro Mines and Quarries was not the employer and there 
fore could not pass the order in question . This was also not pressed . It was also 
alleged that provision of Sec . 33 (3 ) I. D . Act was contravened but this plca also was not 
pressed . Lastly , it was alleged that the charge -sheet was mala ide and he has been 
victimised 

3 . To prove that Goswami was a concerned workman in parent case Ref. No. 151 /67 
Sri C . R . Buxi, Vice President of the Union , Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Sangh , was 
examined . He is also President of Nandini Branch of S . K . M . Sangh . He proved that 
Goswami had been Joint Secretary of the Branch upto 1963 and was Vice President when 
he was dismissed . He admitted that although the Union had been sending letters , the 
last of which is Ex , W / 1 to recognise office bearers of the branch including Goswami 
M6 " protected workman " yet management by reply (Ex. W / 2 ) intimated that they were 
not prepared to recognise the nominated workers as " protected " workmen Inasmuch as this 
was not in conformity with Rule 61( 1) of I. D . (Central) Rules . That being so , the 
question of breach of Sec. 33 ( 3 ) did not arisc and was, therefore , not pressed . 

4 . After it was proved that Goswami was a concerned workman in the parent case 
Ref. No. 151 /67 which was about mining allowance , to prove the record of enquiry , 
management examined the Enquiry Officer , Sri V . P . Jaikumar, on 30th May , 1968 . After 
Yuis evidence was recorded and arguments had been heard , without recording a categorical 
finding whether the enquiry stands vitiated or not, it was considered desirable to call 
for evidence on merits of the misconduct also for which the Opp . Party had been charge 
sheote dand dismissed . The management, therefore , examined Sri K . N . Pathenkar 
( E . W . 2 ) and three witnesses who were examined in the domestic enquiry also , namely 
S / Sri B . G . Kotwani, K . C . Saxena and S . C . Biswas (E .Wş. 3 , 4 & 5 ). The Opp . Party 
cxamined himself and one more witness Sri AB. Roy who was not an eye 
vitness but stated that Goswami got a letter dated 2nd May, 1967 read by him and he 
SAW both S / Sri Goswami and Pathenkar cntoring the Control Room but nothing flirther. 
l he witness examined by him in the enquiry , namely Jogendra Singh, was not examinad 
before this Tribunal. The Arst infirmity in tho enquiry which at the outset appeared 

rave enough to vitiate the enquiry was thç fact that statements recorded in the preliminary 
cnquiry wero read over and admitted in the domestic enquiry and no fresh statements 
were reconded . This procedure had been criticised by the Hon ble Supreme Court at 
least in two cases , Keshoran Cotton Mills, Ltd ., vs. Gangadhar and others [ 1963 - II-LLJ 
p . 452 and Kardah & Co , Ltd . i s , Its workmen 1963 ( II) LL ) p . 452 ) . But on a closo 


4908 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 ĮPart II 

- - - . . - = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
examination of the questinin it . however annars that although it was desirable to have 
recorded the statements afresh yet that would have been a mere formality . The state 
ments were reproduced and recorded in the enguiry and were admitted by the witnesses, 
Thev were extensively cross -examined hy Sri C . R . Buri. the Union representative . He 
made no complaint that he should have been supplied with copies and should he given 
sufficient time so as to cross -examine them . As a matter of fact, after the cvidence was 
closed , he filed written notc and in which while he commerter on the evidence there was 
not the least suggestion made that any prejudice was caused by the procedure adopted 
by the Erguiry Officer . In the not a Potinh ha armitte:1 the receint of true cnnics of 
statements made hefore the preliminar enquiry and read over in the departmental 
enquiry. He further admitted that he was fully satisfied with the manner in which the 
dopartmental enquiry had heen conducted. It is, therefore , too late in the day to contend 
now that thn nocerliise was irrcular As a matter of fact it is not always that in 
enquiry would stand vitiated for this reason . Tn Keshoram Cotton Mills case , their 
Iordshiss of the Sintama Curt vat of an abservation mare in State of Mvore 
Vs. Shivahasanna Shivanna Makanus AIR . 1963 ( S . C .) 3757 and stated that the rules 
of nailirs ! iustire woul1 ho the onmm fas panities indtar Art . 311 of the Constitution 
against Government servants as also against Industrial emplovees. But where in enquiries 
lawyers are not permitted and the union representative is also generally not allowed in 
domestic enquiries navionaty prannta statanyents sh -will not he admitted T is , how 
ever , a question of fact to he leterminert in cach case. In the instant C150 there had 
heen no real violation of principles of natural justice hv admitting the statements recorded 
in the preliminary enquiry when Goswami and his representative, Sri Buzi, the Union 
Vice President. raised no oblection and cross- examined the witnesses on the strength of 
those statements . Tt may he mentioned that in the renly filed to the annlication also no 
grievance was made about it. The ground has been taken only at the stage of argiments. 

5 . The next infirmity which anneared noticeable was the fact that the Enquiry Officer 
cross - examined the witnegara , This evidently he had to do is there was no management s 
representative . The Finaniru nirer is entitlar to that onestions to witnneces to plurirante 
facts . P , he should not clovalvernec - sramine thim . He hart mut niiacting to marison 
ment s witnesses as also to defence witnesses. He also cross -examined Goswami which Tim 
shoutin minit hava na Onestinna mult to Grownmi however, wire mot cuch as to show 
that the Engniry Officer indulged in any closc cross -examination with a view to shatter 
him . Since . however . the represent tive of the Onn , Partu Sri Ruri and Goswami 
himself dit not complain hout it in the written ante suhmittorl to the Firemuriru narer 
And as a matter of fact adinitted the fairness of the enquiry , this fact hy itself would not 
he indicative of any lack of bonafide and infraction of any principle of natural instice , 
Firding of the Enoujsv Odrar is not at all nervorso ant is haset hy the evidence on three 
eye witnesses besides that of Shri Pathenkar himself . 

6 . Even if the enquiry is treated to he vitiated for any violation of nrinciples of natural 
iustior , the management has glven necessary evidence about the incident. Sri Pathankar 
examined himenit ng E . W . 2 and narrated the inchlant He cave a categorical statement 
stating the Althv a huses used by Goswami and the fact that he was hell hy thin chin and 
nushed . The version was supported hy three other witnesses, namely S / Sri B . G . Kotwani. 
K . C . Saxena And S . C . Biswas ( E .Ws. 3. 4 . 5 ) . "As amainst this the evidence of Goswami 
comprised of his own statetricnt only . His witness, Sri A , R . Row (WW 2 ), was not an 
eve witness of the occurrence but what he claimed to have an an anterior happening 
mutside the Control Room . It is doubtful that he could have been at 911 present as his 
shift timinc was over at 6 A . M . and the occurrence took place at about 9 AM . Tn any 
case , the version as stated hv Srl Pathenkar is unite trust-worthy, Tt does not stand to 
reason that an engineer would make himself hero of an unsavoury incident and suffer 
the indignity of an allegation of phoses and regullt at the hands of his suhordinate 
Mhere must have been substantial truth in the allegation . There was sufficient cause for 
110vocation to Goswami, he having received a letter dated 2nd May. 1967 in which he 
had been warned by Sri Pathenkar for having been found absent from his scat. Goswami 
rightly or wrongly had been lotourino irriter an impression tht this office had heen 
untust in denving him promotion . With this background in his mind , it is hut natural 
to expect that he indulged in this offensive behaviour. 
Decision : 

The result is that anprovni as prayed by the management of the Bhilai Steel Plant is 
granted . The application of Sri C , R . Goswami under Sec . 33 - A is dismissed there having 
been no breach of Sec . 33 ( 2 )(b ) ID . Act. 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWATA. 
Presiding Officer. 

28 - 8 - 1968 . 
[No. 37/39/68-LRI.] 


Sec , 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4000 
- - - - - : - - = - = - = 

= - .- - - ISS = - = : 
S . O . 3872 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Arbitrator in 
the Industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation , 31 , Dalhousie Square , Calcutta - 1 and their workmen , represented 
by Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) Employecs Union , 
31, Dalhousie Square , Calcutta - 1 which was received by the Central Government on the 
4th October, 1968. 


BEFORE SRI N . K . CHADDHA , ARBITRATOR . 
Arbitration in Industrial Dispute . 

BETWEEN 
Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation , Calcutta and their workmen represent 

ed by Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) 

Employoes Upton . 
PRESENT: 

Sri N . K . Chaddha - Arbitrator , 
APPEARANCE : 
For the employer - Sri P . Mandal, Legal Adviser , Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking 

Corporation, Calcutta . 
For the workmen - Sri Gouri Shankar, Member of the Working Committec , Bengal 

Bank Employees Federation , Calcutta . 
ARBITRATION AWARD UNDER SECTION 10A OF THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES 

ACT, 1947. 
The Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation , 31 , Dalhousie 
Square Calcutta - 1 and their workmen represented by the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation ( Calcutta Branch ) Employees Union , 31 , Dalhousie Square. Calcutta - 1 by a 
written agreement dated the 22nd May , 1968 in pursuance of the provisions under sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) agredd to 
refer the industrial dispute existing between them over the question of grant of special leave 
to 13 workmen for absence on the 28th February , 1968 in terms of the Bank s notice dated 
the 19th March . 1968 and refund of the wages deducted for that day , l.e . 28th February . 
1968, to my arbitration . The Government of India in the Ministry of Lahoitr , Employ 
ment and Rehabilitation , in pursuance of the provisions of Sub - Section (3 ) of Section 10A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) pnblished the said arbitration agreernent 
which was received by them on the 1st June, 1968 by their Notification No . 24 /21 / 68 
LRTII, dated 21st June , 1968 in Part- TI Section 3 Sub- section ( il) of the Gazette of India 
Mated 19th June, 1968 . 
The following specific matter in dispute was referred to my arbitration : 

Specific matter in dispute 
Whether the following workmen are entitled to special leave for absence on 28th 

February , 1968 in terms of the Bank s notice dated 19th March , 1968 . 


Names of workmen 
1 . Din Mohd. 
2 . Mohd . Rafique. 
3 . Mohd . All 
4 . Mohd. Shafique. 
5 . Musaraf Hossain Khan . 
6 . Mohd . Habib Khan II . 
7 . Nisar Ahmed Khan . 
8 . Khalil Ahmed . 
9 . Mohd . Osman , 
10 . Mohd. Yasin . 
11. Fatebahadur Khan , 
12 . Bimbahadur Das altas Bimbadher Das. 
13 . Bhamra Nayack . 


On receipt of the copy of Gazetto Notification , the parties were requested to suhmit 
· their written statcment by 24th July , 1968 , vide my letter No. Ca1. 31 ( 21 ) / RTC / 68. datcit 

12th July , 1968 endorsing a copy thereto to the opposite party in order to facilitate each 


4910 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II. 

- - - - - 
of them to furnish their counter- comments to mno endorsing a copy to other party . 
Accordingly the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Brauch ) Employees 
Union and the management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation , Calcutta 
submitted thcir written statements to me vide their letter dated 19th July , 1968 and 24th 
July , 1968 respectively . The Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Cor 
poration, Calcutta also submitted their counter statement vide their letter dated 20th July , 
1968 . 


The parties were heard in person on 14th August, 1968 Sri P . Manual, Legal Adviser 
represented the Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation , Calcutta 
and Sri Gourd Shankar, Member of the Working Committee , Bengal Bank Employees 
Foderation , Calcutta represented the workmen in the said proceedings . 

The case of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) 
Employees Union in the instant dispute in nut-shell , is as follows : 

Members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) 
Employecs Union , Calcutta were opposed to the alleged illegal strike of 28th February, 
1968 sponsored by the All - India Bank Employees Association , and accordingly on that 
day i.e . 28th February , 1968, according to the decision of the Union , all the members 
of the Union including those who were residing in the bank premises assembled in the 
Dalhousie Square in the proximity of the Bank premises with a vicw to joining duty 
en masse , but the situation at the bank s gate , due to heavy picketing by the members of 
the rival Union sponsoring the strike, being too abnormal, they could not join their duties 
On the 19th of March , 1968 , the Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation , Calcutta released a notice inviting applications from those crnployees who 
did not participato in the aforesaid strike, explaining the reasons for not attending their 
duties on 28th February , 1968 . The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 
( Calcutta Branch ) Employees Union , Calcutta vide its letter dated 20th March , 1968 
addressed to the Manager explained the circumstances which stood in the way of their 
members from joining duties on 28th February , 1968. The Managemont of the Bank , 
however , wanted vide their letter dated 22nd March , 1968 that individual cmployces 
should explain separately about their absence and accordingly on 28th March , 1968 a 
joint application of the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 
(Calcutta Branch ) Employees Union explaining the reaxon of their not being able to jola 
duties on 28th February , 1968 was submitted to the Bank . Application from thoso who 
were on leave on 28th February , 1968 were submitted to the Bank on their return . The 
Management of the Bank were , however , not satisfied with the explanation so tendered 
by the members of the aforesaid Union and deducted their salaries for one day i.e . 28th 
February , 1968 from the salary for the month of April, 1968. In the circumstances , this 
Union raised an industrial dispute before the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Calcutta on 8th May , 1968 . The Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Calcutta took 
up the dispute in conciliation on 22nd May, 1968 when a settlement was arrived at 
hetween the parties resulting in payment of salary for the 28th February , 1968 to 40 mem 
bors involved in the dispute. The case of 13 cmployees which now forms the subject 
matter of the present reference could not be settled in conciliation in as much as the 
Management of the Bank considered that as 11 of them normally reside within the Bank s 
premises, there was no justification for them to be absent on the day of strike on 28th 
February , 1968 , 

Both the parties argued their case before mo at length and the procccdings were con 
cluded on 14th August, 1968 . 


The representative of the Hong Kong & Shanghat Banking Corporation (Calcutta 
Branch ) Employees Union , during the arguments before me, stated that prior to 28th 
February . 1968 their members gave a declaration to the Management of the Hong Kong 
& Shanghai Banking Corporation , Calcutta , through the Union that they would not parti 
cipate in the strike on 28th February , 1968. Accordingly , in their zealous bid to join 
their dutics on the day of strike on 28th February , 1968 , almost all the members of the 
Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) Employees Union , includ 
ing those who wcro residing in the Bank premises , assembled in front of the Bank for 
reporting for duty . The reason behind their assembling at a spot being that it would be easier 
for them to enter into the bank premises collectively . Their attempt was , however , foiled 
due to heavy picketing at thc Bank s gato by the striking employees led by other Union . 
Even those two of their members who could somehow report for duty on the said dato , 
had to cancel their attendance and loave the place of work under force and intimidation . 
No protection whatsoever was provided by the Bank management for the willing workers. 
The Union , therefore , argued that in the circumstances of the case, tho 13 workmen 
under reference , should also be treated on par with those 40 workmen referred to above 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4911 

- - - S 
by granting them special leave for 28th February, 1968 and wages for the said day so 
deducted should be refunded to them . 


The representative of the management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation , 
Calcutta argued that there could not be any question of these 13 workmen having come 
to resume thoir normal duties and being prevented from entering into the Bank due to 
picketing of the Bank s gate inasmuch as the Management considered that as all of them 
normally reside within the Bank s premises, there was no justification for them to be 
absent. These 13 workmen were, therefore , not entitled to special leave and their claim 
in the present reference should be dismissed . The representative of the management 
further maintained that staff residing in the Bank s premises ought not to have come out 
on the day of strike on 28th February , 1968 to create a situation making it impossible 
on thcir part to enter into the Bank for duty . They were , therefore, to bear the conse 
quence of their own faulty decision . As regards Sri Din Mohammed , Jamdar, one of 
tho 13 workmen under reference , who actually joined the duties, but did not sign the 
attendance register , the representative of the management stated that since Sri Din 
Mohammed had stated , in writing , that he could not join duties due to picketing in the 
Bank s gato , the management had no other alternative than to treat him at par with other 
12 workmen in question who pormally put up within the office premises and who allegedly 
chose to go out knowing that they might be prevented from rc -entering the Bank . 


When asked , Sri Mandal, representative of the management, however, admitted that 
although the Officers of the Bank did report for duty on 28th February , 1968 , they could 
not enter the Bank s premises due to heavy picketing at the gate . He, of course , pleaded 
ignorance of the fact that these 13 workmen went out of the Bank premises on 28th 
Fberuary , 1968 torcenter along with the other willing workers at the start of the duty 
hours of the Bank . Instead, as far as the Management were concerned , they considered 
them to be present inside the Bank premises and as such it was incumbent on them to 
report for duty . 


I have gone through the written statements of both the parties and have heard their 
arguments in support of their respective stands . I find that the Management of the 
Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Calcutta knew before hand through the 
Goneral Secrotary , Bengal Bank Employces Federation who called on the Manager of the 
Bank earlier , that the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation ( Calcutta 
Branch ) Employees Union were opposed to the strike sponsored at the instance of All 
India Bank Employees Association on 28th February , 1968. I also find from the written 
statement of the Union and the arguments its representativo advanced in course of hearing, 
that there is no iota of doubt that the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) Employees Union including the 13 workmen under reference , 
were not in favour of the aforesaid strikc and were actually ardent to attend their duties on 
the day of tho strike . It is apparent from the facts placed hefore mc thit neither these 13 
workmen who were residing in the Bank s premisce nor the leaders of the Hongkong & 
Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) Employees Union could anticipate the 
measure of risk involved in leaving the bank premises first and then re -cntering at tho 
start of the duty hours on the day of strike on 28th February . 1968. In all probability 
these 13 workmen in question would not have ventured to make such a plan had they 
been in a position to foresco tho danger involved . To me it appears that all the attention 
of the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) 
Employees Union including these 13 workmen under reference was centrel around their 
eagerness to exhibit their willingness to join duties hy defying the action of the All India 
Bank Employees Association in launching strike on 28th February , 1968 . 


The Management of the Bank have, as I find from the forcgoing. already considered 
the cases of 40 employees who were willing to join duties on 28th February , 1968 but 
could not do so due to heavy picketing etc . at the Bank s gate . They have been granted 
special leave and the wages deducted for one day on 28th February, 1968 have been 
refunded to them . In juxtaposition to this fact the management s action in treating these 
13 workmen under reference on a different footing by refusing grant of special Icave and 
refund of the wages deducted for the saki day i.e . 28th February . 1968 does not appeal 
to me. I am led to this conclusion because probably this was the first time when the 
staff residing in the Bank s premises had left the place of stay on such occasion , Besides, 
I do not find that the Bank had released any notice earlier prohibiting the staff residing 
within the Bank s premises from going out during off hours without the knowledge of the 
Management, 


- - - 


-- 


- 


- 4012 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART II 

= H . . . - = - = 
I, therefore , direct that these 13 workmen under reference be granted special leave for 
28th February, 1968 and the wages for that day so deducted from their salary for the 
month of April , 1968 be refunded to them immediately . 

(Sd .) N . K . Cuadura, 
Arbitrator and Regional Labour Commissioner, 

(Central), Calcutta . 
[No . 24 / 21 /68 /LRINI .] 


New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 
S . O . 3873 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Now Great Insurance Company of India Limited , and their workinen , 
which was received by the Contral Government on the 14th October, 1968. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY . 

REFERENCE No. CGIT -2 or 1967 


PARTIES : 


Empoyers in relation to the New Great Insurance Company of India Limited . 

AND 

their workmen , 
PRESENT: 

Shri A . T . Zambre, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the employers. — Shri E . S . Ramakrishnan , Deputy General Manager of the 

company . 
For the workmen . - Shri K . S. B . Pillai. Joint Secretary, All India Insurance 

Employees Association . 
State : Maharashtra . 

INDUSTRY : General Insurance . 
Bombay , the 16th September 1968 


AWARD 


The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment have by their 
Order No. 74 ( 13 ) /66 -LRIV , dated 7th January , 1967 referred to this Tribunal for adjudi 
cation an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the New Great 
Insurance Company of India Ltd . and their workmen represented by the All India 
Inguranco Employees Association , Calcutta in respect of the following matters specificd 
in the schedule to the said Order : 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the following demands put forward by the workmen are justified ? 

Charter of Demands 
All the demands contained herein below shall apply equally to all the employees 

employed throughout the country in thọ New Great Insurance Company of 

India Limited . 
1. Classification of Employees 
The employees will be classified into the following categories : 

( a ) Peong, Sweepers, Watchman , etc . shall be placed in Grade " A " . 
(b ) Driverg , Head Peons shall be placed in Grade B . 
(c) Record Clerks shall be placed in Grade B . 
( d ) Assistants, Telephone Operators, Typists. Receiving and Paying Cashiers , 

comptists , Receptionists, etc., shall be placed in Grade D . 
(e) Junior supervisory staff variously termed as Higher Grade Assistants Special 

Assistants, Senior Assistants , Head Typists, Sectional Heads, Cashiers and 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4913 
-- - - 

= = :: . 
Senior Cashiers, Head Cashiers , Head Clerks, Stenographers , etc. shall be 

placed in Grade E , 
( f ) Senior Supervisory Stall, variously termed AS Superintendents , Assistants 

Superintendents , Head Clerks , Sectional Heads, Branch Accountants , Junior 
Accountants , Claims Adjusters , etc ., shall be placed in Grade F . 


II . Scales of Pay : 
Grade A Rs. 120 - 5 /6 - 150 - 6 / 7 - 192 - 8 /6 -240 in 19 years . 
Grade B Rs. 180 - 6 / 2 - 192 - 8 /6 - 240 - 10 /6 - 300 in 16 years . 
Grade C Rs. 196 - 6 / 3 - 214 - 10 / 5 - 264 - 12 / 3 - 300 - 15 / 4 - 360 in 15 years . 
Grade D Rs. 200 - 15 / 4 - 260 -20 / 7 - 400 - 25 / 4 -500 in 15 years , 
Grade E Rs. 275 - 20 / 5 - 375 - 25 /5 - 500 - 30 / 4 - 620 in 14 years . 
Grade F Rs. 350 - 30 /6 -530 - 40 /4 -690 in 10 years . 
III. Dearness Allowance : 

Dearness Allowance shall be paid at the rate of 1- 1 / 2 por cent, of basic pay for every 
rise of 5 points over the cost of living index figure of 360 ( 1939 = 100 Points ) or 1 per cent. 
of basic pay for cvery rise of 1 point ( one point) over the cost of living index figure of 
100 ( 1949 - 100 points ) subject to a minimum of Rs. 50 / -. 


IV . Adjustments and Merger of Dearness Allowance; 

An employec shall be fitted into new scales on a point to point basis . The Basic 
Pay and doarnoss allowance as on 30th June , 1965 shall be treated as basic pay only for 
the purpose of adjustment of basic pay to the new scales of pay. 


V . Special Allowance : 

Employees engaged in work mentioned below and /or designated as below shall be 
entitled to special allowance per mensem in addition to their salaries and emoluments 
in the manner stated below : 
( a ) Watchmen , Bank Peons, Despatch Peons, Stationery Peops, Doctor s Peons, 

Duplicating Machine Operators, Delivery Peons and other poons who help 
in Clerical work such as filing policies attaching clauses with necessary 

clauses, Telephone Relievers and such other employees: Rs. 20 /- per month . 
N . B . All India Cost of Living Index shall be taken as the basis for calculation of 

the dearness allowance . 
( b ) Typists , Stenographers, Comptists , Telephone Operators, Paying and Recoiving 

Cashiers, Cash Assistants and such other employers : Rs. 30 / - per month . 
VI, Special Increments : 

In addition, the employees shall be entitled to Special increments for passing the 
.following examinations on the scale shown against such examinations: 
(a ) On Graduation , 

ncrements 
On Post Graduation or 
Double Graduation 
On Typists being promoted as Stenos 
Licentiatc or A . C . I. , Part I . . 

Incriment for 

each part 
( e ) A . F . L. I . Part I or A . C . I. I. Pirt IJ 

- do 
( 1) A . F . I. I. Part II or A . C .I. I. Part III 

- do 
( F . F . I. 1. or F . C . I. I . . . . . 

- do 
Chartered Accountant or Diploma in Accountancy. 
VII . Other Allowances : 

( a ) Overtime Allowance . An employee working over -timc after the Schedule working 
hours shall be entitled to Overtime Allowance for such period of work rendered at the 
rate of double the hourly rate of wages inclusive of special allowance and all other 
allowances. No employee shall be cngaged in for overtime work for more than 90 hours 
in the calcndar year, 

(b ) Officiating Allowance . - ( 1 ) If an employce is required to officiate in a higher post, 
he shall be entitled to an Acting Allowance at the rate of 20 per cent. of his salary for 
the period for which he officiates. 


- 


- 


- 


4914 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11 , 1890 (PART II — 

- - - - 
( 2 ) If an employee is required to act in a post for which special pay is provided , ho 
chall be cntitled to pro - rata special Allowance for the period of such work donc . 

( c )House Rent Allowance. — ( i) All the employees shall be paid as House Rent 
Allowance a sum at the rato of 20 per cent of his salary per mensein , subject to ininimum 
of Rs. 20 / 

(i ) The Company shall arrange to provide Residential Accommodation to its employces 
or advance the cost thereof to be recovered from the employces salary in easy instalmonts . 

( d ) Lunch Allowance . Every person shall be paid lunch allowance of Rs. 2 /- per 
cach working day . 
(e) Every employee shall be paid a conveyance allowance of Rs. 10 / - per month . 

( f) Senior Supervisory Stafl, variously ternied as Superintendents , Assistant 
allowance of Rs. 10 / - per month for washing their uniforms. 
VIII, Amenities : 
(i ) Toxt Books for A . C .I.I. or Federation of Insurance Institute Exömination shall 

be supplied by the Company in turn , Examination Fee shall be paid by the 

employer after the employee has passed the examination . 
(ii) Adequate subsidy shall be given for sports, recreation and Cultural activities 

of the employees. 
( iii) All the employces shall be entitled to a Free Personal Accident ( Annual Policy ) 

the premiums of which shall be borne by the employers . The Sum Assured 

of such Policy shall be Rs. 10 ,000 / -, 
(iv ) Adequate subsidy shall be given for cheap cantcons for supply of wholesome 

food to the employees in each of the Office premises. 
( v ) Two Cupy of Tea , one in the morning and one in the afternoon shall be 

supplied frce of charge to each employee on all working days . 
( vi ) The Company shall provide a Tiffin Room with sitting accommodation for the 

purpose of lunch , tea etc ., such rooms shall be allowed for preserving the 

Union s records and other materials. 
IX . Free Medical Ald : 

All Medical expenses incurred by the employees and their family members shall be 
reimbursed by the employer without any reservation . For this purpose , Medical expenses , 
shall include Cost of Medicines , Doctor s Bill , Specialists Fecs, Cost of X -ray and other 
Special Expenses , Hospital Charges , Cost of Spectacles etc , as prescribed by any Registered 
Medical Practitioner . 
X . Gratuity : 

On retirement or retrenchment or on death or on total and permanent disability of an 
cmployee while in the service of the Company. 
One month s basic salary for cuch year of continuous service subject to a maximum 

of 30 months basic salary . 
On resignation from service after completion of 3 years of continuous service . 
One month s basic salary for cach year of continuous service subject to a maximum 

of 30 months basic salary . 
On termination of service by the Company , 
One month s basic salary for each completed year of service but not more than 

30 months basic salary . 
The salary for the purpose of calculating Gratuity shall be the terminal basic 

salary drawable by the employee previous to death , disablement, retirement, 

resignation , retrenchment, or termination of service as the case may be . 
XI. Retirement Age: 

The age of retirement of an employee shall be 60 years. 
XII. Provident Fund : 
(i) All perinnent employees including part-time employee should be made mom 

bers of the provident fund . 
( ii) The rate of contribution should be 10 per cent of total emoluments i. e . 

basic pay plus Dearness Allowance plus special allowance , if any, with 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4915 
- - - - - --- - - - - - - 

-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 
equal contribution by the Company . The employees should , however, be 
allowed to contribute voluntarily upto 15 per cent of their salary with 

out corresponding contribution from the Company. 
(iil ) Interest at a minimum rate of equal to the obicial Bank Rate of the country 

should be paid on the total contribution by the employee and Company, 
( iv ) Unclaimed fund should be distributed pro- rata every year amongst tho existing 

employees from timo to time. 
(v) Full benefits of the fund should be permitted to the employees on completion 

ol 5 years of service . 
(vi) Loan from the provident fund to the extent of 6 months salary or of the 

employees own contribution shall be granted to the employees at A 

time without any restrictions. 
( vii) Board of Trustees. On the Board of Provident Fuod Trust, the workmen and 

the employer should have equal number of representatives . Workmen re 
presentatives should be elected by themselves by simple majority of votes , 
Rc-election of workman representatives should bo held every three years 
unless necessitated carlier by death or resignation or recall by a majority of 
the employees . 


XIII. Leave. 
( i) Casual Leave. — 15 days Casual Leave should be given in a Calendar year . 

6 days Casual leave may be granted at a stretch . Casuul lcave may bo 

prefixed and suffixed to public holidays and sundays . 
( ii ) Privilege Leave -- - Privilege leave should be allowed to all employees at the 

rate of 1 day for every 11 calendar days . Employees should be allowed 
to accumulate leave upto 6 months. Privilege leave should be allowed to 

be encashcd . 
Return fare to the employee , his wife and dependents should be granted once 

in 2 ycarse for going any where in India . 
( iii ) Sick Leave - - 30 days sick leave per year should be allowed on full pay to 

thc cmployees with a maximum accumulation of 12 months, during the 

service period. 
In case of prolonged illness further sick leave with half pay should be allowed 

upto 6 months more and another 6 months without pay . 
( iv )Maternity Leave - Matemnity leave upto the period of 3 months shall be allowed 

to all female employees , but in no case more than 6 weeks leavc will be 

allowed from the date of confinement. 
( v ) Furlough Leave. Employees on retirement shall be granted 6 months leave 

as leave preparatory to retirement or 6 months total salary should be paid 

in lieu thereof. 
( vi) Examination Leave . -- Employces shall be allowed adequate leave for appearing 

in all the recognised examination in addition to all other leave . 
( vii ) Special Leave - Adequate leave shall be allowed to the Union Representatives 

and Office hearers of All India Insurance Employees Association and / or its 
affiliated unions to enable them to attend meetings and conferences of the 
Unions and their Central organisations and to participate in the Tribunals 
and Conciliation Proceedings . 


XIV . Security of Service : 

No employee shall be victimised for Trade Union activities. 


XV . Working Ilours : 

The working hours for cmployees in Clerical and Supervisory grade shall be 33 hours 
and for sub - staff inembers 36 hours during the week days working from Mondays to 
Fridays treating Saturdays and Sundays as wçck -end holidays. A grace time of 15 minutes 
shall be allowed beforc the employees are marked late 


XVI. Bonus: 

Customary Employees shall be paid three months basic salary as Bonus per year 
and the same shall be paid on or before 31st May of every year. 


CS 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


. 


4916 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART 11 – 

= = = . - - . - - . -- - - - -- -- 
XVII. Uniform 10 Sub - Stuff : 

All members of the sub-staff shall be provided with following outfit annually :-- - 
I . Summer Unifom - Coat, Shirt; Full Pant 

4 Sets . 
2. Winter uniform --- Full Pant. . . . . . . . . 

I Set. 
3 . Umbrella 
Footwear . . . . . . . . . 

2 Pairs 
Rain Coat - Onc for those who are lo do 
outdoor duties and drivers . 


XI, Recruitment: 

Recruitment shall be made from amongst the retrenched employees of the General 
Insurance Industry , registered in the Pool as demanded in the resolution adopted in the 
All India Convention of General Insurance Employees held on 15th and 16th August, 
1960 in Bombay under the auspices of the All India Insurance Employees Association . 
Only in case such employees are not available in the Pool, recruitment might be made 
through local employmont exchanges . In case of recruitment from among the retrenched 
employees, duo credit shall be given to the past service and all restrictions regarding age , 
cducational qualifications, etc ., applicable to new recruits shall be waived . 


XX . Temporary Staff : 

No employco should be recruited on temporary basis . 
XXI. Confirmation ; 

Employees shall be confirmed after 3 months probationary sorvico automatically . 


XXII Promotion : 

No direct recruitment shall be made in Higher Grade Assistants and supervisory grades 
and all vacancies in these grades shall be filled in by way of promotion . The promotion 
shall be made on the basis of seniority and merits of the employees. Sub -staff members 
shall be absorbed in the Assistant s grado on passing S . S . C ., Ş . Ş . L . C . or equivalent 
examination . At all times the percentage of the employees in the Higher Grade Assistants 
and Supervisory grades shall not be less than 40 por cent and 20 per cent respectively 
of the total number of employees in all the three grades . 
XXIII. Transfer: 

No employce shall be transferred from onc place to anothor without his /her consent. 
A transfer allowance of Rs. 50 / -, Rs. 75/ - and Rs. 100 / - respectively shall be paid to the 
employees in the Assistants , Higher Grade Assistants and Supervisory grades when an 
cmployec Agrees for transfor . 


XXIV . Heating Arrangement: 

During the winter season , where there are extremely cold climato such as Delhi, 
Lucknow , Nagpur , Amritsar etc ., the employer shall arrange to provide with electric 
boating arrangements in the office premises . 


XXV . Holidays : 

All the Holidays declared under the Negotiable Instrument Act 1961 shall be paid 
holidays for the employees . But in case the number of holidays under the Negotiable 
Instruments Act is less than 22 days in a year the employees shall be given additional 
holidays for Festival days to make a total of 22 days . 


XXV . Date of Effect: 

All benefits stated in this Charter of Demands shall have effect from 1st July , 1965, 


XXVII. Trude Union Rights : 

The all India Insurance Employecs Association and its affiliated Units shall be given 
due recognition and such facilities as providing Trade Union Offices and holding Trade 
Union Meetings in Ofice premises and hanging Notico Board of the Union should be 
granted . 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/ KARTIKA 11, 1890 4917 
S S - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. .. -- - - - 
XXVIII. Existing Rights and Privileges; 

Nothing contained in this Charter shall adversely affect or take away from any cmployee 
or Group of employees any right, privilege or lisages, practice or conventions, amenitics 
or other conditions of service that are already vested in or enjoyed by such employees 
or group of eniployees ," 

2 . After the receipt of the reference notices were served and both parties filed their 
written statements in respect of the issues in the reference. There were in all 28 demands 
which related to and were made applicable equally to all the employees employed by 
the company throughout the country and the statement of claim filed by the Union runs 
over more than seventy -five pages . The company has by its written statement opposed 
the reference and raised various contentions requesting that the tribunal should lay stress 
on the economic consideration in preference to social only and the limitations and 
restrictions under which the company was working. However after prolonged ncgotiations 
both the parties have amicably settled the dispute and filed a joint application along with 
the memorandum of settlement dated 2nd September 1968 praying that an award may be 
passed in terms of the said settlement. 

3 . The employers the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd ., arc represented 
by us Deputy General Manager Shri E . S . Ramakrishnan while the workmen are represented 
by Shri K . S . B . Pillai, Joint Secretary of the All India Insurance Employees Association 
Calcutta . Both of them who are present today have signed the memorandum of settlement 
and have explained to me the terms of settlement, 

4 . It is clear from the settlement that a part of the dcarness allowance has been 
merged in the basic salaries. Provision has also been made for the minimum scalc of 
pay which is to be made applicable in all branches by stages . A new scheme of dearness 
allowance is also evolved with a basic dearness allowance and it has been linked to the 
all India consumer price index . Provision has also been made for the grant of houșc 
rent allowance to the employees in the major cities of Bombay, Calcutta , Delhi and 
Madras . The management has also agrecd to give additional increments for special 
qualifications and special allowances for special work . The terms of settlement are fair 
and reasonable and I think it proper to make an award in terms of the seltlement 
annexure A which shall form part of this award . 
No order as to costs, 

($ d .) A . T . ZAMBRE , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay . 

ANNEXURE A 

Memorandum of Settlement 
Names of Parties , — The New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd ., Principul 

Office at 7 , Jamshedji Tata Road , Churchgate Reclamation , Fort, Post Box 
No. 1126 , Bombay . 

AND 
Workmen employed by The New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd . in Bombay, 

Calcutta and Madras offices and other oſlices in India , 
Representing Employer.- E . S . Ramakrishnan , Deputy General Manager , The New 

Great Insurance Company of India Limited . 
Representing Workmen .-- K . S. B . Pillai, Joint Secretary , The All India Insurance 

Employees Association , Calcutta . 
This seulement made this 2nd day of September 1968 between The New Great Insurance 
Company of India Ltd . (hereinafter referred to as " thic Company" ) and the Workmen emoloy 
ed by the Company in Bombay , Calcutta , Madras Offices and other offices in Indir 
represented by Thọ All India Insurancc Employecs Association (hereinafter referred to as 
" the Union " ) . 

IVhereas the Union submitted a Charter of Demands on bchall of the workmen 
emploved by the Company in its various offices. 

And whereas the Charter insofar as it relates to the Workmen vis referred to adjudica 
tion by the Central Government Industrial Tribunal and was marked us Reference No. 
CGIT No. 2 of 1967 . 

And whereas pursuant to further negotiations the parties have arrived at the following 
settlement to the intent that it will be binding on parties under Section 18 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( hereinafter referred to as " the Act" ) , 


(ii) teads, Achey and Dive 


4918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [PART I. 
= - : - _ . - -- - -- - - - - - - -- 

- - 
And now it is hereby agreed hy and between the parties hereto as follows:--- 

1. Commencement of the Settlement. This settlement will apply to the workmen 
employed by the Company in Bombay, Calcutta , and Madrag Offices with effect from 1st 
January 1967 and to workmen cmployed in other offices in India with effect from 1st 
January 1968. 

2 . ( a ) Salary Scales . — The following salary scales shall be introduced in all the offices 
of the Company in India : 

(1) Assistants (clerks including typists and Rs. 150 – 8 .- 198 — 10 — 258 - 12 -- 330 --- 
telephone operators ). 

EB - 15 - 435 (in 25 years ). 
(11) Stenographers . . . . . Rs. 174 - 8 --- 198 - 10 - 258 - 12 - 330 

EB - 15 — 450 (in 23 years) 
( ii ) Senior Assistants ( including Sectional Rs. 200 — 125 - 250 – 15 — 340 – ER 

Heads, Accountants or Superintendents 200 - 500 ( in 18 years ). 
in Branches and Divisional Offices 

wherever applicable ). 
( iv) Sectional Heads (only in Bombay) Rs. 295 - - 15 — 370 — 20 — 490 - -25 - 590 

(in 15 years). 
(v ) Record Clerks (only in Bombay ) : Rs. 110 -- 4 - -138 – 5 – 163 — 8 - 235 ( in 

21 years) . 
(vi) Drivers . 

. , Rs. 120 ... 

Rs. 1305 — 210 ( in 16 years) 
(vii ) Peons, Lil tmen , Watchmen , Plumbers , Rs. 85 — 3 ~ 115 — 4 - 135 - 5 ~ 165 ( in 21 
Gardeners . 

years ). 
( viit) Wiremen / Electrician . . . . Rs. 130 – 8 — 178 - 10 - 238 - 12 - 310 

EB - 15 — 415 (in 25 years ). 
(b ) Classification - - The classification of individual workmen into grades ( ii ), ( iii) 
and (iv ) will be as mentioned in Schedule " A " hereto . 

( c ) Adjustment. — 1. The following amounts will be added to the basic salaries drawn 
by the workmen as on 31st December , 1966 or 318t December , 1967, as the case may be 
as specified in Clause 1 herein above ( that is depending upon whether the revised scales 
are applicable to the workmen on 1st January , 1967 or 1st January , 1968 ) . 

1 . Assistants , Stenographers , Senior Assistants , Sectional Heads . . Rs. 70 / 
2 . Record Clerks, Drivers, Peons, Liftmen , Watchmen , Plumbers, 
Gardeners , Wiremen / Electricians. 

. . Rs. 50 / 
2 . After addition of Rs 70 / - or Rs. 50 / - as the case may be in the basic salary of 
the workmen as provided in Clause 1 above , the basic salary derivecl under Clause ( 1 ) 
above will be fitted in the revised grades [ vide 2 ( a ) ] in the following manner : 
6 ) Workmen who would be in receipt of basic salary which is less than the 

starting basic salary of the respective revised scales shall he stepped up to 

the minimum of the revised scale . 
( ii ) Workmen who would be in receipt of basic salary which is higher than the starting 

hasic salary of the respective scales but which is not a step in the revised 

scale shall be stepped up to the next step in the revised scale . 
( iii ) Workmen who would be in receipt of basic salary which is in step with a step 

in the revised scale shall be fitted at that step in the scale . 


Similar amounts will be added to the basic salaries in respect of workmen who were 
appointed after 1st January , 1967 and are cmployed in Bombay , Calcutta and Madras 
Ofices and in respect of workmen employed after 1st January , 1968 in other Offices in 
India . 


3 . Dearness Allowance . ( A ) In place of the existing dearness allowance scheme the 
following scheme of dear oss allowance will be introduced when the All India Consumer 
Price Index Number (Base 1949 – 100 ) for working class is at 170 . 

( a ) For workmen employed at Bombay. Calcutta , Madras and New Delhi; 
Upto Basic salary Rs, 100 /- , . . . , Rs. 60 flat. 
Betwcen I and 250 

. . 

. 

Rs. 60 / - plus 30 % of basic 

salary in excess of Rs, ICO ) 
Between 251 and 350 . . . . . Rs. 105 - (Rs. 60445) plus 

20 % of the basic salary in 
excess of Rs. 250 / 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11 . 1890 


4919 


-- 


V . 


- 


- 


Betwoct 351 and 400 


. 


Betweell for and 500 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Abyve Rs. 505 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Rs. 125/ - (Rs. 60 + 45 + 20 ) plug 

15 % of the basic salary 

in excess of R9. 350 / -. 
Rs. 132 : 50 (Rs. 60 . + 45 + 20 + 7 + ) 

plus 10 % of basic salary in 

cxcess of Rs. 400 /-, 
Rs. 142 . 50 (Rs. 60-+- 45 + 20 + 

75 + 10 ). 
D . A , will be paid as if monthly 

basic salary is Rs. 500 / - i.e . 
no D . A . is payable on that 
portion of baisc salary over 
Rs. 500 /- . 


( 6 ) For workmen employed at Jaipur , Patna , Ahmedabad , Lucknow , Hyderabad , Bangalore , Nagpur 

and Kanpur : 
Upto basic salary Rs, 100 

. . RS , 401- flat. 
Between 101 and 250 

. Rs. 40 / - plus 20 % of the basic 

salary in cxcess of Rs. 100 /- . 
Between 251 and 350 . 

Rs. 70 /- (Rs. 40-+ 30 ) plus 

10 % of the basic salary in 

excess of Rs. 250 / - . 
Between 351 and 500 . . . . . . Rs. 80 /- (Rs. 40 + 30 + 10) plus 

5 % of the basic salary in 

cxcess of Rs. 350 / -. 
Above Rs. 500 . . . . . . . Rs. 87. 50 (Rs. 40---307- 10 + 7: 50) 

D . A . will be paid as if the 
salary is Rs. 500 / - i. e. no 
D . A . is payable on that por 
tion of basic salary over Rs. 

500 / 
( c) For workmen employed at all other Offices in India : 
Upto hasic salary Rs. 100 

Rs. 20 /- flat. 
Between rol and 250 . . . . . . Rs. 20 )- plus 20 % of the basic 

Salary in excess of Rs . 100 ) 
Between 251 and 350 . . . . . . 

Rs. 50 /- (Rs. 20 + 30 ) plus 10 % 

of the basic salary in excess 

of Rs. 250 /-. 
Between 351 and soo . . . . . : Rs. 60 /- (Rs. 20 + 30 + 10 ) plus 

5 % of the basic salary in 

excess of Rs. 350 / - . 
Above Rs. 500 . . . . . . Rs. 67 50 (Rs. 20 + 30-4 104 

7 . 50 ). D . A . will be paid 
as if the monthly basic 
salary is Rs. 500 / - i .e . no 
D . A . is payable on that 
portion of basic salary over 
Rs. sool 


( B ) It is further agreed that for every risc or all of one point in the quarterly 
Average index number over or below 170 , the D . A , payable on the hasic salary will be 
increased or decreased , as the case may he , as under :- - 


- - .. 


- - - 
Basic salary 


Percentage 


- 


- - 


- - 


.. 


- 


IF 


Hann - 

I 


r 


- - 


- 


- 


For the first Rs. 1001 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 % of basic salary . 


For the balance amount 
of basic salary tipto 
· Rs. 500 ) 


% of such balance 
amount of basic 
salary . 


- 


.. . - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


4920 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA : 1, 1890 [PART II ; 


- as. . 


- .. 


Provided , however, that the maximum dearness allowance payable under the scheme 
per month shall not exceed Rs. 350 / - in respect of workmén employed in Offices inentioned 
in Sub -Clauses ( a ) and (b ) of Clausę " A " and Rs. 300 / - in respect of Offices mentioned 
in sub -clause ( c ) of Clause " A " above . 

C ) The D . A . adjustment for any quarter shall be made on the basis of the average of 
The All India Consumer s Prico Index for thç quarter last preceding the previou .3 quarter 
( that in for the 1st quarter of any year the adjustment shall be on the basis of the average 
of the All India Consumer s Price Index for the 3rd quarter of the previous year , and so 
on ) . For the purposes of calculating dearness allowance on the basis of the average 
quarterly index , a fraction of one-third of the average quarterly index will be ignored and 
a fraction of two- thirds will be rounded up to one . 

4 . House Rent Allowance House rent allowance will be paid to following categories 
of workmen employed only in Bombay , Calcutta , Madras and New Delhi Olces . 
(1) Aiziyants , Senior Assistants, Sectional Heads , Rs. 15 /- per month . 

Stenographers. 
( il) Peoni, Drivers , Record Clerks, Watchmen , Rs. 10 / - per month . 

Liftmen , Plumbers, Gardeners , Wiremen / 
Electricians. 


5. ( a ) In view of the fact that the settlement will be effective from 1st January, 1967 
or 1st January , 1968 as the case may be as specified in Clause 1 hereinabove, the Company 
agrees to waive the recovery of one mouth s gross salary which was paid by way of advance 
and the interim relief paid to the workmen prior to 31st December 1966 or 31st December 
1967 as the case may be . In considcration of this, the workmen will have no claim for 
revision of wages or other conditions of service for the periods concerned . 

( b ) (i) For the purpose of calculating the arrcars in rcspect of basic salary , D . A . 
and house rent allowance wherever applicable payable to workmen for the period com 
mencing from 1st January , 1967 or from 1st January , 1968 as the case may be as specified 
in Clause 1 hereinabove, the total monthly carnings ( excluding over- time) payable tinder 
this settlement ( subject to adjustments in Clause 6 below ) will be worked out and the 
total monthly carnings (including tho interim relief but . excluding overtime if any earned ) 
of the respective workmen for the above -mentioned period will be deducted and the 
balance after making deductions towards Provident Fund and Income tax will be paid to 
tho respective workmen As arrears , payable under this settlement. 

(ii ) The arrcars payable under this settlement in respect of all types of functional 
allowances, bonus and medical aid shall be paid separately , 

6 . Certain other adjustments. ( a ) Notwithstanding anything contained in the settle 
ment , if a workman employed at New Delhi, Jaipur, Patna , Ahmedabad , Lucknow , 
Hyderabad , Bangalore , Nagpur and Kanpur gets an increase in his remuneration as per 
this settlement ( excluding all allowances other than D . A . ) which is more than the increase 
received by the workmen employed at Bombay drawing the same amount of basic salary 
in the gamo grade ( excluding all allowances other than D . A . ) then thc workman of the 
Above Branch Offilces will be only entitled to receive in the first year of this settlement, 
le., in the year 1968 an increase which is equal to that received by the Bombay Omce 
workman ( excluding all allowances other than D . A . ) in January 1967, the difference 
being reduced from the dearness allowanco otherwise payable under this settlement. 

In the year 1969, 50 per cent of the said difference will continue to be deducted from the 
deArness allowance otherwiso payable under this settlement every month whilst no such 
deduction from dearness allowance will be made in 1970 . But this will not prevent the 
workmen from getting an incrcase in dearness allowance arising as a result of a rise in the 
quarterly average in the All India Consumer Price Index Number for Working Class : 

Provided , however , that if the said dcduction exceçds the deatness allowanco a workman 
is entitled to , the balance amount decluctable will be adjusted against the dearness 
allowance a workman shall be cntitled to as a result of the rise in the cost of living 
index . The workman shall be entitled to dearness allowance only after the amount 
deductable is adjusted against increase in dearness allowance arising as a result of rise 
in the cost of living index . Illustration given in statement No . 1 to Schclule B attached 
hereto - illustrates and clariftes the intention of parties to this settlement. 

For the purpose of delermining the increase under this settlement, basic salary and 
dearness allowance as on 31st December , 1966 will be taken as the basis . 

( b ) Similarly , if any workinan employed at other Branches referred to in Clause3 ( A ) 
( c) abve gets an increase in his remuneration as per this settlement excluding alt altow 
ances other than D . A .) which is morr than the increase received hy the workmen employed 


4921 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 
. - = - . . . - -- - - - . . . - - : : : " ** + - - - - - - - - - - .. . - -- - --- - -- --- - - -- - -- - -- - - - - -- 
at any of the Branches relerred to in clause 3 ( A ) ( b ) above , drawing the same amount of 
Lasic salary in the samo grade ( excluding all allowances other man D . A . ) then the 
workman employed at the Branches referred to in clause 3 ( A ) ( c ) abovc will be only 
utilicd to receive in the first year of this settlement i. e ., in 1968 an increase wbich is 
cqual to that drawn by the workinan employed at the Branches referred to in clause 3 ( A ) 
( 0 ) (excluding all allowances other than D . A . ) 10 January 1908 , the ditlerence being 
reduced froon Dearness Allowance otherwise payable under this settlement. 

In tho year 1969, 50 p . c , of the said difference will continue to be deducted from his 
dearness allowance every month , whilst no such deduction from dearness allowance will 
be made in 1970 . But this will not prevent y workman from getting an increase in dcarness 
allowance arising as a result ol a rise in the quarterly average in the All India Consumer 
Price Index Number for working Class . Provided , however, that if the said deduction 
exceeds the dearness allowance a workman is entitled to , the balance amount deductablo 
will be adjusted against the dcarness allowance a workman shall be entitled to as a result 
of a rise in the cost of living index . The workman shall be entitled to dcarness allowanco 
only after tho amount deductablo is adjusted against increase in dearncss allowanco arising 
as a result of rise in the cost of Jiving index . Ulustration given in statement No. 2 or 
Schedule B attached hereto illustrates and clarifies the intention of the parties to this 
settlement. 

For the purpose of determining the increase under this settlement, basic salary and 
dcarness allowance us on 31st December 1966 will be taken as the basis. 

7 . If after adjustments , as inentioned above , any workman gets in a month total cmolu 
ments (basic salary and dearness allowance and housc rcnt allowance ) less than what he 
was drawing AS of 31st December, 1966 or 31st December , 1967 ( as the case may be ) 
or the total increase he received by reason of adjustinent in the revised sculo is less than 
Rs. 10 / -, ho will be given a special pay which will ensure that he gets a minimun increase 
of Rs. 10 / - over the basic salary , deurncsss allowance, index dearness allowance adjust 
ment and interim relief draws on 31st December , 1966 or 31st December, 1967 ( as the 
case may be ). The special pay mentioned above will not be payable after the expiry 
of ono year mentioned hereinabove . 

8 . Annual Increments:- - All permanent workmen shall be given their annual increments 
on 1st July every year. For the purpose of grant of increment, continuous service of six 
inonths or more as on 1st July shall entitle a workman (or the increment on 1st July but 
* Workman who has continuous service of less than 6 months on 1st July of any year will 
not receive the yearly increment payable on 1st July of the year concerned , 

9 . Special increments . — ( i ) ( a ) A graduate on joining service will be given two special 
Increincnts at the start in the grade . Double graduates will be given three special incrc 
ments at the start in the grade . If an existing stall member becomes a grudunto he will be 
riven two special increments . If an existing staff member who is a graduate becomes a 
double graduato he will be giveni ono further special increment in his / her scale from the 
month of declaration of the results provided however , that the company is given intimation 
in this respect by the workman concerned . 

(i ) ( b ) Typists who are promoted as stenographers will continuo to get thrce additional 
increments in their grade on their promotion as at present. 

(ii) ( a ) One special increinent will be given to workmen passing Part I of the Associate 
sbip Examination of the Chartered Insurance Institute , London , or Licenciute Examination 
of the Federation of Insurance Institutes (J . C . Setalvad Memorial), Bombay , Graduates 
and double graduates will not be entitled to this increment, 

(b ) Onc special increment will be given to workmen (including graduates) passing 
Part II of the Associateship Examination of the Chartered Insurance Institute , London , or 
Part I of the Associateship Examination of the Federation of Insurance Institutes (J . C . 
Sotalved Memorial), Bombuy . 

( c ) One special increment will be given to workinen ( including graduates ) passing 
Part III of the Associateship Examination of the Churtered Insurance Institute , London , 
or Part II of the Associateship Examination of the Federation of Insurance Institutes 
( J . C . Setalvad Memorial) , Bombay. 

(d ) One special increment will be given to workmen passing the qualifying cxamination 
tor Fellowship of the Chartered Insurance Institutc , London , or for Fellowship of the 
Federation of Insurance Institutcs (J. C . Setalvad Memorial), Bombay. 


These special increments mentioned in clauso 9 (ii) will bc given from thic year and 
the month in wbich the results of the examination are officially declared and according to 
the grade the workman is in that particular month . 


. 


. . 


AU22 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 PART II - - 

- : - - : : : : : : : :. . .. : 
(iii ) (a) One special increment will be given to thoso passing Part 1 of the following 
Examinations 

Corporation of Certified Secretarics, London , 
Corporation of Accountants , Glasgow , and 
Chartered Accountants Examination , India , 

Gruduates will not be entitled to this increment. 
(b ) One further special increment will also be given to those passing the above final 
examinations (ie. in all two additional increments ) . 
Graduates will not be entitled to this increment, 


ments provided to examination after yos lanthe case of other 


All the above special increments provided for in this clause shall be given to the 
existing staff who shall have passed the above examination after Ist January 1967 in the 
Case of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras , and after ist January 1968 in tho case of other 
Branches , and also to the new recollits who pass the above Examinations after joining the 
Company. 

10 . Special allowances , - - The following cutegories of workmen will be granted special 
allowance per month : 
(a ) Worknica operating Comptometers , Gestetners and Banda Machine will be 

cntiled to Machine allowance of Rs. 15 / - per month . 
(b ) Onc pçon working in Bombay, Calcutta , Madras and Delhi carrying cash to 

and from the Bank will be entitled to an allowance of Rs, 10 / - per month . 
One peon working in other Branch Offices and càrrying cash will be paid 

a cash allowance of Rs. 5 / - per month . 
( c ) Pcons in Departments who regularly do the work of pasting policy copies, 

endorsements and other documents will be given an allowance of Rs. 10 / 

per month , 
(d ) No workaren shall be entitled to more than one allowance at a time and if 

two special allowances are applicable in any case , the higher allowance shall 
be paid . The special allowance would continue to be drawn by a permanent 
jncuinbent while on leave. A workman who is asked to work temporarily 
for not more than 30 days in a post carrying a special allowance would 

not be cntitled to such special allowance . 
(e ) The special allowances paid to the following workmen will be withdrawn from 

the date of this settlement. These workmen will be placed in the catogory 

of workmen , indicated against their names as mentioned hereinbelow : 
I. Mr. H . M . More 

Record Clerk 
2 . Mr. D . S . Singh 

Do . 
3 . Mr. P . S . Kadam 

Do. 
4 . Mr, S . $ . Pokle 

Do. 
5. Mr. B . P . Pandit . 

Peon 
The above workmen will continue to perform their duties as hitherto and any other duties 
which will be allotted to them from time to time. 

11 . Hours of work . ( a ) The normal hours of work of the following workmen will 
be as indicated below : 
1. Clerical, reſerred to in paragraphs Present working hours to continue but wil 
2 ( a ) (i), 2a (ii) , 211 (iii ) and 2 (iv ) above , not be more than 7 working hours 

per day . 
2 . Record Clerks & Peons 

Present working hours to continue, but 

will not be more than 42 hours per 

week , 
Liften , Watchinen , Plumbers , Gardiners , 8 working hours per day spread over II 
Wircmcn /Electricians , 

hours per day but not exceeding 48 
hours per week , with a weekly holiday 

during the week . 
4 , Drivers , , , , , , 9 working hours per day spread over 12 

hours per day but not exceeding 48 
hous per week with a weekly off any 

day in the week . 
eduction in working hours from those existing at present shall tako effect from 

fioning of this settlement. Timings will in that case be fixed by tho managoment 
depending upon the exigencics of cach Branch or Office . 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4923 


Grace time will be allowed to workmen in accordance with Schedule C to the 
settlement. 

(b ) Holidays. Clerical Staff , Record Clerks and Peons. — All public holidays declared 
by the respectivc State Governments under the Negotiable Instruments Act, except 30th 
June, 31st December or such holidays declared by the State Governments which relate to 
mifairs of the Banks, will be granted . 

( i ) Drivers, Watchmen , Lilimen , Wiremen / Electrician . 
Plumbers, Gardeners: - - 
Four specificd holidays in a Calendar year, or over-time payment in lieu thereof. 

12 . Over -time Allowance - (i ) Over -tjmç payment for actual number of hours worked 
after the normal working hours by a workman will be made at the rate of 1 times of his 
basic wage plus dcarness allowance . The Staff will be required to work over -time on 
instructions of the Officer -in -Charge . An exception will be made in case where a work 
man cannot undertake over - time for valid and genuine difficulties. 

( ii ) It is agreed that no additional payment on account of over -time, if any, done by 
workinen prior to the date of signing this settlement will be due or claimed by tho work 
men due to revision of wages under this settlement or for any other reason . 

13 . Out-door duty allowance . The current practice of paymeot of actual but reasonable 
out of pocket expenses incurred under instructions by the workman during his out- door 
duties will continue . 

14 . Gratuity , Gratuity will be paid to workmen in accordance with the terms and con 
ditions of the Gratuity Scheme detailed in Schedule D attached hereto . 

15 . Provident Fund. — The rate of provident fund contribution of the workmen shall bo 
8 - 1 / 3 per cent of basic salary ( excluding all allowances ) . An equal contribution will be 
made by the Company , 

16 . Leave. - Workmen will be granted leave in accordance with the leave rules given 
in Schedule E attached hereto . 

17 . Medical Aid . — Medical benefits will be granted to workmen as per the Medical Aid 
Scheme given in Schedule F attached hereto . 

18 . Retirement Age. — Normally , every workman will retire at the attainment of the age 
of 60 but the Company may , at their sole discretion, grant further extension if any work 
man is medically fit and his services are required by the Company. The Management 
may also at its sole discretion require a workman to retire earlier than the age of 60 on 
medical grounds iſ certified by a consulting physician or surgeon . 

19 . Promotion . - ( a ) As far as possible , senior posts will be filled in from tho existing 
stulf at the discretion of the management after considering the workman s qualifications , 
ability , cllicicacy and knowledge . The management may appoint any other person from 
outside, if it considers it necessary . 

(b ) The Company does not undertake, as a matter of right, to absorb in the clerical 
grade or record clerk s grade peons who pass Matriculation or any equivalent examination . 
The Company may, however, consider such cases on merits sympathetically . 

( c ) Typists who learn stenography will be given preference when new vacancies of 
stenographers arise . The criterion for appointment will, bowever, be eficiency and , if in 
the opinion of thc management such typists arc less efficient than other applicants , the 
latter will be given preference . 


20 . Probation . ( a ) The probationary period of three months will apply to all workmen 
and in case the management desires to extend further the probationary period, it will have 
the right to extend the probationary period further but not exceeding three months . 

(b ) No workman will be kept on probation for more than six months. 

(c ) No workman will be kept temporary for more than three months in any Calendar 
year . 


21. Uniforms . - Four Pants, four coats , four caps , one umbrella and one pair of chappals 
will be gupplied to drivers , record clerks , peons, watchmen , liftmen , plumbers and gardeners 
every year . These workmen shall wear the uniforms when on duty and the loss of any 
of these articles shall be borne by the workman concerned and no replacoment will bo mado 
by the Company . 


4924. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTÍKA 11, 1890 [PART 11 – 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


22 . Victimisation . 
trade union activities. 


The Company will not victimisc or ill -treat any workipan for his 
All trade union activities sliall be carried on outside office hours. 


23. Transfer . - Transfer of workmen from one department to another in the game office 
will be made by the managencnt according to the exigencies of the Company s business . If 
the transfer is made at the discretion of the management, the seniority of the workman will 
be maintained . 


24 . Bonus. — The declaration and payment of bonus will be subject to the sanction and 
approval of the Board of Directors and the Central Government. 


25 . Period and scope of settlement. - - ( i) This settlement shall remain in force uplo 
31st December, 1970 . The settlenient shall continue to remain in force thereafter until it 
is terminated by cither party by giving a noticc of two months in writing to the other after 
31st December 1970 . 

(ii ) The settiçment will be only applicable to all workmen for whom grades are fixed 
under this settlement and who are in the service of the Company as on the date of signing 
this settlement or thereafter. However, inonetary benefits , accruing under this settlement 
shall be given to workmen who have retired , died or terminated simpliciter ( except temporary 
workmen ) from service prior to the date of this settlement. 


26 . Sertlement nor to apply to certain categories - - Notwithstanding anything contained 
in the settlement, this settlement shall not apply to part-time workmen . 


27 . General. - (i ) In consideration of this settlement all the demands which are subject 
matter of the dispute in reference C . G . I. T . No. 2 of 1967 , which are not specifically covered 
by this settlement shall be decmed to be settled as having been withdrawn and the workmen 
shall not agitate the said demands during the currency of this settlement, 


(ii ) All payments accrued to the credit of the workmen as a result of this settlement 
shall be paid as carly as possible but not later than four months from the date of this 
settlement , 


( ii ) Any dispute arising out of the interpretation of any clausç of this settlement shall 
be settled between the parties to tho dispute by mutual discussions . Failing this, the par 
ties will resort to the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act or any other law for the 
time being in force . 


28 . This settlement is arrived at with the sincerc intention of maintaining cordial rela 
tions between the workmen and the management. The management and the workmen shull 
carry out the terms of this settlement in its truc spirit. 


29. The parties shall make an application before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal in reference C . G . I. T . No. 2 of 1967 to make an award in terms of this settlement . 
The partics shall also send copies of the settlement under Section 18 ( 1 ) read with section 
2 ( p ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the various authorities prescribed under the 
Act . 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have hereto set their hands the day and year 
first above written , 
Signed for and on behall 

Signed for and on behalf of 
of the Workmen by the 

The New Great Insurance 
All India Insurance Employecs 

Company of India Ltd . 
Association , 
( Sd.) K . . B, PILLAI , 

( Sd .) B . S . RAMAKRISHNAN , 
Joint Secretary 

Deputy General Manager. 
All India Insurance 
Employees Association , 
Witnesses 

Witnesse : 
1. (Sd.) P . B . BHAT , 

1. (Sd .) S . V . MOKASHI 
Group Secretary 
1 . (Sd.) B . J. DATAR 

2. ($d .) D . S. DIKSHIT 


4925 


Sec. 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 
- - - - - - 

- 

AS 
SCHEDULE “ A " 
Sectional Heads in Bombay Office 

[ referred to under clause 2 ( a ) ( iv ) .] 
1. Mr. Y . G . K . Prabhu 
2 . Mr. N . V . Viswanathan 
3 . Mr. K . P . Parekh 
4 . Mr. R . J . Mehta 
5 . Mr. R . K , Mehta 
6 . Mr. P . B . Bhat 
7 . Mr. B . J . Datar 
8 . Mr. G . Ramaswamy 
9 . Mr. N , G . Shah 

STENOGRAPHERS 

( referred to under clause 2 (a ) (i ) ] 
Bombay 

1. Miss Rita D Silva 
2 . Mr. T . S . L . Narayan 
3 . Mr. P . S . Mani 
4 . Mr. A , P . Nanu 
5 . Mr. V . T . Raghunath 

6 . Mr. V . Raman 
Calcutta 

1. Mr. B . K . Gangopadhyaya 
New Delhi 

1. Mr. R . C . Bharadwaj 
2 . Mr. S . L . Taneja 

3 . Mr. Haveliram Gulati 
Madras 

Mr. P . V , Ratnanabhan 
Jaipur 
Mr. K . G . M . Nair 

SENIOR ASSISTANTS 

( referred to in clause 2 (a ) ( iii ) ] 
Ahmedabad 

Mr. U . G . Dave 
Agra 

Mr. K . K . Gupta 
Ludhiana 

Mr, W . C . Agarwal 
Baroda 

1. Mr. N . M . Desai 
2 . Mr, H , T . Shahiwalla 


Bhavnagar 

Mr. I. P . Bhuva 
Bombay -General/ Accounts Department 

1 . Mr. N . K . Gandhi 
2 . Mr. P . S . Mody 
3 . Mr. G . M . Ved 
4 . Mr. K . R . Krishnan 
5 . Mr. V . C . Joshi 
6 . Mr. C . B . Gurao 
7 . Mr. C . P . Thakkar 


4926 


THE.GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA : 1,, 1890 [PART II 


8 . Mr. J. S . Rao 
9 . Mr. B . R . Desai 
10 . Mrs . S . S . Nagarkatti 
11. Mr. S . R . Ganguli 
12 . Mr. L . K . Thakkar 


Fire Department 

1. Mr. B . K . Mhatro 
2 . Mr. J. B . Deorukhar 
3 . Mr. J . G . Valia 
4 . Mr. L . T . D Silva 
5 . Mr. J . C . Mehta 
6 . Mr. R . T . Srinivasan 
7 . Mr. R . Ramachandran 
8 . Mr. P . G . Karekar 

9 . Mr. A . S . Mabadevan 
10 . Mr. D . B . Chitalia 
11. Mr. A . R . Sanghvi 


Marine Department 

1. Mr. P . N . Subramanian 
2 . Mr. M . C . Tripathi 
3 . Mr. C . K . Mehta 
4 . Mr. P . M . Sarai 
5 . Mr. P . R . Sivaraman 
6 . Mr. R . N . Desai 

7 . Mr. K S . Fadia 
Accident Department 

1. Mr, G , N , Shanbhag 
2 , Mr. K . Raja Rao 
3 . Mr. M , V , Parekh 
4 . Mr. C . R . Subramanian 
5 . Mr. V . R . Gole 

6 , Mr, C . Gangadharan 
Calcutta 

1 . Mr. S . L . Banerjeo 
2 . Mr. S . K Dutta 
3 . Mr. D . C . Saba 
4 . Mr. D . N . Saba 
5 . Mr. S . R . Bhattacharjee 
6 . Mr. P . K . Banerjee 

7 . Mr. C . R . Mehta 
Hyderabad 

1. Mr. P . R K , Panicker 

2 . Mr. S , R , P . Raman 
aipur 

1. Mr. V . N . S . Sastry 
2 . Mr. P . C . Sogani 
3 . Mr. B . K . Nair 
4 . Mr. H . K . Punjabi 


Jodhpur 

1. Mr. R . S . Babel 
Kanpur 

1. Mr. C . M . Jain 
New Delhi 

Mr. H . B . Gupta 


Nagpur 

1. Mr. R . B . Walckar 
2 . Mr. D . N . Lutade. 


4927 


Sec. 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTÍKA 11 , 1890 
- - - 
Patna 

Mr. T . N . Chowdhary 
Ujjain 

Mr. M . S . Jaio 
Sangli 

Mr. H . B . Dalvi, 
Madras 

1. Mr, K , G . Menon 
2 . Mr. K . Y . Narayan Rao 
3 . Mr. C . Janardhanan 
4 . Mr. N . Narayanan 


ANNEXURE " B " (Statement No. I ) 


1028 


Basic 
Salary 


Ist Jan . Total 
1967 D . A . monthly 
( Cost of salary 


Old 
Salary 


Dec . 1966 Total 
old D . A . monthly 

old salary 


Total 
monthly 
difference 
excluding 
interim 
relief 


living 
index ) 


@ 197 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


A Class 


Bombay 


82 - 15 


Assistant 
Assistant 
Peon . 


, 
. 


, 
. 


390 . 00 
150 . 00 
85 . 00 


197. IS 
108 . 75 
82 . 95 


587 . 15 
258 . 75 
167 . 95 


3200 
80 : 00 
35 . 00 


185. 00 
ISI IO 
100 . 00 


505 . 00 
231. 10 
135 . 00 


27 .65 
32 . 95 


. 


. 


DA to 
be redu - 
ced in 
1968 


DA 10 DA to 
be redu - be redu 
ced in ced in 
1969 1970 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER2,1968/KARTIKA11,1890[PART11 


B Class 

Jaipur 


Assistants 


148 - 15 


Nil 


Assstants 


. 
.. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


390 . 00 
150 . 00 
85 . 00 


83 - 75 


538 . 15 
233 . 75 
147 . 95 


320 . 00 
79 . 00 
35 . 00 


95 . 00 
80 . 00 
65. 00 


415 . 00 
159 . 00 
100 . CO 


123 : 15 
7475 
47 . 95 


41. 00 
47 * 10 
IS. 00 


20 . 50 
23 : 55 
7 . 50 


Nil 
Nii 


Peon 


. 


62 . 95 


Given below are examples showing calculation of salaries of Jaipur staff for 1968, 1969 and 1970 giving effect to the adjustments 


Salary as Add in - 
on 1 - 1 -67 crement 

in July 
1967 


Total D . A . as - D . A . to Total Salary as DA, as 
salary assuming be redu . Da pay - 01 I - I -68 on I - 1 - 68 
on I - I -68 index at ced in able as on 

214 Pts . January 1 - 1 - 68 
in January 1968 
1968 


Total 
salary 
as on 
I - 1 -68 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


JJ 


B Class 


Jaipur 


Assistants 


Do. , 


390 . 00 
150 . 00 
85 . 00 


15 . 00 

8 . 00 
3 . 00 


158 . 00 
58 . 00 


193 . 85 
108 . 36 
78. 72 


41 . 00 
47 . IO 
15 . 00 


152 - 85 
61. 26 
63 . 72 


405 . 00 
158 . 00 
88 . 00 


152 . 85 
61- 25 
63. 72 


557 . 85 
219 : 26 
ISI. 72 


Peons 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER2,1968/KARTIKA1.1,1890 


Salary 


Salary 
as on 
[ - 1 -68 


as on 


Add Total 
increment salary 
jo July as on 
1968 1 - 1 -69 


D . A . 
assuming 
index at 
200 Pts . 
on Jan - 
uary 1969 . 


D . A to Total 

be D . A . 
reduced payable 
in Jan - as on 
uary 1969 I - I - 69 


I - 1 -69 


D . A , as Total 
on 1 - 1 - 69 salary 

as on 
1 - 1 -69 


Assistant 

Do . 
Peons , 


405. 00 
158 . 00 
88 . 00 


15 . 00 
8 . 00 
3 . 00 


42000 
166 . 00 
91. 00 


IOI 50 
93 . 10 


20 50 
23 . 55 


141. 00 
6 9 - 55 
59 . 80 


420 - 00 
166 . 03 
91. 00 


14100 
69 . 55 
59 . 80 


561 00 
235 . 55 
150 80 


DA . as 


Total 


Salary 
as on 
1 - 1 -69 


Add Total 
increment salary 
in July as on 
1969 I - I - 70 


on I - I - 70 


D . A . D . A . to 
assuming be redu - 
index at æd in 
19 . Pts . January 

in Jan 70 . 
uary , 1970 . 


Total 
D . A . 
payable 
as on 
I - 1 - 70 


Salary 
as on 
I - 1 - 70 


as on 
I - I - 70 


$72 . 75 


Assistant 

Do. . . 
Peons . 


420 . 00 
166 . 00 
91. 00 


888 


435 . 00 
17400 
94 . 00 


137 . 75 
82 : 20 
$ 8 . 80 


Nil 
Nil 
Nil 


137 75 
32 . 20 
58 . 80 


435 00 
174 . 00 
94 . 03 


137 : 75 
82: 20 
58 . 85 


. 


256 . 20 


. 


. 


152 . 80 


4929 


ANNEXURE ;“ B ” (Statement No . 2) 


4990 


0111 


Basic 
Salary 


D . A . 
(Cost of 
living 
index ) 
@ 197 


Total 
monthly 
salary 


011 
Salary 


Total Total Reduction Total 
monthly, monthly account monthly 
old 

differeace of maxi- difference 
salary ex .LR . num limit receivable 

mum limit 

in 1968 


Rs. Rs. Rs. 


Rs . Rs. 


Rs . 


RS 


Rs . 


Rs. R . Rs. 


B Class 

Jaipur 


Assistant 
Peon . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


, 
. 


, 
, 


150 00 
85 00 


83 - 75 
62 95 


233 . 75 
147 95 


7 9 . 00 
35 . 00 


80 . 00 
65. 00 


159 . 00 
100 . 00 


74 . 75 
47 . 95 


47 . 10 
15 . 00 


27 . 65 
32 . 95 


D . A . to D . A to 
be redu - be redu - 
edia ced in 
1968 1969 


D . A . to 
be redu 
oed in 
1970 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBAR2,1968/KARTIKA11,1896PARTII 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


* C * Class 


: 


Sangli 

Assistant 
Peon . 


150 . 00 
85 . 00 


63. 75 
42 - 95 


213 - 75 
127 . 95 


60 . 00 
30 . 00 


40 . 00 
30 . 00 


100 . 00 
60. 00 


113 . 75 
67. 95 


+ 8610 
35 . 00 


43 . 05 
17 . 50 


Nil 
Nil 


. 


. 


. 


. 


* As the reduction in D .A . is more than D .A . payable , the dearness allowance will be eliminateipit no further D . A . will be paid until the iacrease in 
deanītess allowance arising as a regult of the rise in the cost of living index covers the deficit. 


Given below are examples showing calculations of salaries of Sangli Staff for 1969 , 1968 and 1970 giving effect to the adjustments 


Salary 
as on 
1 - 1 -67 


Add Total Assuming D . A . to be Total 
increment Salary D . A @ reduced in D . A . 
in July on 1 - 1 -68 214 Pts . January payable 
1967 

1968 as on 

I - I - 68 


S alary 
as on 
1 - 1 -68 


D . A . 25 On Total 
[ - 1 - 68 salary as 

on I - 1 -68 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


C Class 
Sangli 

Assistant 


: 


: 


: 


150 . 00 


: 


: 


: 


* 85. 00 


8 . 00 
3 . 00 


158 . 00 , 
88 . 00 


88 . 36 
58 . 72 


86 . 10 
35 00 


2 . 26 
23 . 72 


158 . 00 

88 . 00 


2 : 26 
23 . 72 


160 . 26 
III . 72 


Salary 
as on 
I - I - 68 


Salary 
as on 
1 - 1 -69 


Add Total Assuming D . A . to be Total 
increment salary D . A . @ reduced in D . A 
in July on 1 - 1 - 69 200 Pts. January payable 
1968 

1969 

as On 
1- 1 -69 


D . A . as on Total 
1 - 1 -69 salary as 

on I - 7 -69 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOPINDLA:NOVEMBER2,1968/KARTIKA11,1890 


- 


- 


KS. 


Rs . 


Assistant 
Peon 


Rs. 
158 . 00 
88 . 00 


8 . 00 


: 


: : 


Rs, 
166 . 00 
91 . 00 


Rs. 
73 . 10 
47 : 30 


Rs. 
43 . 05 
17 . 50 


Rs. 
30 . 05 
29 - 80 


Rs. 
166 . 00 
91. 00 


Peon 


Rs. 
30 . os 
29 . 80 


196 05 
120 . 80 


3 .00 


Salary 
ag on 
I - I -69 


Add Total 
iacrenent salary 
in July on 1 - 1 - 70 
1969 


Salary as 
On I - 1 - 7 ) 


Assuming D . A . to be Total 
D . A . @ reduced in D . A . 
190 Pts. January payable 
on I- I - 70 1970 as on 

I - I - 70 


D . A . as on Totla 
1 - 1 - 70 salary 

as on 
1 - 1 - 70 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 
166 . 00 
91 00 


Rs. 
8 . 00 
3 : 00 


Rs. 
174 . 00 
94 . 00 


Assistant 
Peon . 


. . 
. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


62 . 22 
38 . 82 


62: 20 
38 . 80 


174 . 00 
94 . 00 


Vil 


62. 20 
38. 80 


. 


236 . 20 
132 . 80 


91 . 00 


4931 


4932 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II — 


SCHEDULĘ " C " 

Rules regarding Grace Time 
At the centres where graço time is allowed , it will he understood that this concession 
is not considered as a privilege for coming to Office late regularly or very often . Adequate 
reasons would have to be adduced for late attendance beyond ten minutcs . Any worknian 
arriving after the grace time will mark his actual time of arrival on the muster roll. 

Any workman who comes late in any office for more than threo days in a month will 
be deemed to be absent for one day for cvery three days of late attendance , and such 
absence will be deducted from casual Icave due to him . In the event, casual leave is not 
duo, the absence shall be deducted against, privilege leave , if any, due to him . If no 
casual leave or privilege leave is dut to the workman , the absence will be treated as 
leave on loss of pay and necessary deduction from salary will be made. 

Any workman arriving late by more than one hour after the scheduled time will bo 
marked absent and will not be allowed to work unless permitted by the Head of the 
Department, 

SCHEDULF " D " 

Gratuity Rules 
Every workmen shall be paid gratuity as follows :-- 
1 On retirement , , , , , One month s bayic salary for each completed 

year of continuous service, subject to 

a maximum of 15 months basic salary, 
2 In the event of death of an employee or Onc month s basic salary for each completed 

permancpt disability certificd by a year of continuous servicc subject to 
Doctor nominated by the Conny a miximum of 15 months basic salary 
whilst in the service of the Company, to be paid to the disabled workian or if 

hc/she is dead , to his /her heirs , cxecutors , 

legal representatives or 8pigns . 
3 In the event of resignation after 10 years Three - Fourths of a month s basic salary 
service . 

for cach completed year of continuous 
service but not exceeding 15 months 

basic salary . 
4 On termination of service by the Company ( ) After 5 completed years of continuous 

service but less than to years service 
1 month s basic salary for each completed 

year of servicc . 
(6 ) After to completed vears of continuous 

service but less than 15 years service 
3 /4 of a month s basic salary for cach 

completed year of service. 
(c ) Aſter is completed years of continuous 

service I month s basic salary for 
every completed year of service subject 
to a maximum of 15 months basic 
salary . 


In the event of dismissal of a workman for gross nisconduct involving financial loss 
to the company , the amount of gratuity if any payable shall be reduced by the amount 
of financial loss caused to the company by the misconduct resulting in the termination 
of the service . 

The salary for the purpose of calculating gratuity will be the monthly basic salary 
exclusive of all allowances payable to a workman on the date the workman ceases to be 
in the employment of the company. 


SCHEDULE " Ę " 

Leave Rules 
( a ) Privilege Leave. - For every elcven months of actual service with the company , 
a workman will be entitled to one month s privilege leave . Such leave when due can be 
accumulated up to a maximum of 90 days but no workman will be allowed more than 
60 days leave at a time. Accumulated leave in excess of 90 days will be deemed to 
lapse . Applications for privilege leave will be made 15 days in advance. Privilege 


Sec. 3 (U ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA !1, 1891) 


4933 


loave may prefixed or suffixed to holidays . Privilege Icave when duo will be granted 
according to the exigencics of the Company s business. If a workman is refused privilego 
leave when applied for, his rights in respect of such leave will be safeguarded . 

A workman who is on privilege leave should not in the normal course request for 
oxtonsion of leave . However, in case such extension is unavoidable , prior application for 
oxtension of leave should be made before the cxpiry of the leave already granıcd . 
Management on receipt of such application will communicate its decision on such an 
application . Failure to apply will result in loss of pay for the days of his absence from 
duty after the expiry of the sanctioned leave. The absence shall also be treated as 
unauthorised absonce . 


Encashment of privilege leave will be allowed only to workman who has accumulated 
leave of 60 days or more to his credit and provided that the workman while applying for 
encashment of leave also applies for not less than 30 days privilege leave . Maximum 
oncashment of privilege leave will be limited to 30 days , 

(b ) Casual Leave . — A workman will be allowed 10 days casual lçave per calendar year 
to meet casual and unforseen circumstances , or not more than the maximum number of 
days laid down in thc Shop and Establishment Act applicable to the Office concerned . 
Not more than 3 consecutive days casual leavo will be allowed at a time. Casual Lcavo 
may cither be prefixed or suflixed (but not both ) to Sundays and Bank holidays , but only 
with the previous permission of the Management, 

Casual leave shall not be availed of as far as possible , unless previously applied for 
and sanctioned by the Management . The need for previous application can be waived 
only in case of absence due to illness or accident, or other urgent reason deemed rcasonable 
by the Management . 

If a workman is marked late for more than 3 days in a month , he will forfeit casual 
leave for one day for every 3 days late coming. 

If no medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner is produced , absence 
due to sickness of not more than 3 days will be treated as casual leave. 

( c ) Sick Leave - A workman is entitled to a maximum of 15 days sick leayo per year 
on full pay, subject to his producing a certificate from a registered medical practitioner , 
Such leave may be accumulated up to 100 days on full pay . I no medical certificate from 
a registered medical practitioner is produced , absence due to sickness of not more than 
3 days will be treated as casual leave . A workman will also be allowed to exhaust his 
sick leave first, if he is entitled to such leave, and thercafter to utiliso his privilege leave 
which may bo due to him , 

( d ) Maternity Leave . - - A married female worker who has been confirmed in tho services 
of the company shall be granted maternity leave with full pay for 12 weeks , to be taken 
6 weeks before confinement and 6 weeks after confinement. The birth of a child certified 
by a registered medical practitioner should be notified to the company . 

Normally , maternity leave shall not be granted in conjunction with sick leavoor 
privilege leave . However, in cases of genuine hardship , tho Management at its discretion 
may mako an exception , 

Maternity leave will be granted only for the first and second deliveries during the female 
Worter s life time. 


SCHEDULE " F " 

Medical Ald Scheme 
(i) (a ) The benefits under the above Scheme will be available to all permanent 
workmen of the Company covered by this settlement. 

( b ) The workman must have completed one year s service to enablo him / her to get 
the benefits under this Scheme. A workman will be entitled to join this Scheme on tho 
1st day of January of the year following completion of his / her ono year s service. 

( ii) The Company will create a separate fund called the Company s Medical Aid Fund 
for medical aid of the workmen by contributing to the said fund a sum of Rs. 75 per year 
to the credit of cach workman , to be utilised for tho benefit of the workman in the manner 
hereinaftor provided . 

( ii ) A workman will take medical treatment as and when hç may requiro the samo 
from his own Doctor who shall be a registered medical practitioner . 


4934 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART IL 


(iv ) Any workman entitled to the benefits of the Scheme will submit his /her Bill in 
respect of costs of mixtures, injections, patent medicines , X -rays , pathological cxaminations , 
specialists consultation fee but excluding dentists Bills and maternity cxpcnses , together 
with supporting vouchers at the end of every three months, viz., 31st March , 30th June, 
30th September and 31st December of every year, for medical treatment undergono by 
him /her to the Company who , if satisfied about the same, will reimburse the workman 
by paying three - fourths of the amount of the Bill out of the amount standing to his / her 
credit in the said fund , provided that the amount payable to a workman shall not exceed 
Rs. 75 per year. 

( v ) If a workman has not taken advantage of the medical benefit available to him / her 
under the Scheme during any year , he / she will be entitled to accuinulate the unused or 
unspent amount lying to his /her credit for three consecutive years , lic . to uccumulate to 
his crcdit a sum of Rs. 225 and hc / shc may if so necessary , be allowed to take benefit 
of the Scheme up to Rs. 225 for the three years, provided that if the amount is not at 
all utiliscd by him /her at the end of the period of three years , the entire amount or portion 
thereof lying to his /her credit shall lapse and shall then belong to the Company . 

(vi) A workman shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent injury or illness to 
himself/ herself and especially when any diseasc is prevalent in epidemic form . 

( vii ) If a workman has to undergo hospitalisation treatment, the company will bear 
and pay the expenses of such hospitalisation up to three-fourths of such expenses of 
hospitalisation actually incurred by the workman on production of the Bills . The Bills 
that will be reimbursed by the company shall not exceed three weeks hospitalisation per 
ycar, in the manner specificd below : 

Three-fourths of actual charges but not exceeding . 
Staff (Grades I to IV ) 

Rs. 20 per day as room charges . 
Sub -Staff (Grades V to VIII) 

Rs. 10 per day as room chargce . 


In addition to the above , operation and other medical cxpenses incidentul to the 
hospitalisation , such as honorarics visit charges, operation thcatre or table charges , 
medicines and injections will also be borne by the company to the extent of three- fourths 
of the amount applicable to the class ncarest to the ono referred to in this paragraph . 

The company will reimburse a workman to thc cxtent of three-folirths of hospitalisation 
expenses as mentioned abovc , on production of Bill of such charges. 

(viii ) Under this Scheme of Medical Aid , a workman will not be entitled to incdical 
benefit in the following cases : 
( a ) insanity , venereal diseases or any medical treatment necessitated by a workman s 
own rash or reckless act, 

and / or 
( b ) any medical trcatment other than hospitalisation taken by a workman outside 

the City / Town where the Office of the company concerned is situated . ( The 
benefit will , however , he available to such workmen who have their place 
of residence outside the City / Town where the office of the Company is 
situated , and who attend to their work from such place of residence ) . 

[No. 74 (13) /66- LRIV .) 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 26th October 1968 


S . O . 3874 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Advance Insurance Company Limited , 
Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section (1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , çon 
stituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


A .c. 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4933 


SCHIDULJ 
Whether tho demands raised by the General Insurance Employees Union , Bombay 

in respect of the employcos of Advance Insurance Company Limitod , Bombay 

with regard to the following matters are justified ? 
(a ) Classification of employees , scale of pay, dearness allowance , adjustment, 

special allowanco , special increments, overtime allowance , officiating allow 

ancc , and house rent allowanco . 
(b ) Free medical aid , gratuity, retirement age, provident fund , and uniforms for 

employees in Grades A and B . 
(c ) Leave benefits yiz , casual leave, privilege ( earned ) Leave, sick leave, maternity 

leavc , examioation leave , special leave , furlough loAve , sectional holidays 

and holidays. 
(d ) Leave fare concossion . 
(e) Temporary Staff and promotions. 
If so , to what relief are the employees entitled ? 

No. 25 / 9 / 68 - LRILI .] 
0 . P. TALWAR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1968 
SLO . 3875 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Governtnent hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Dutta s Central Kajora Colliery of Dutta s Central Kajora Coal Company (Private ) 
Limited , Post Office Kajoragram , District Burdwan and their workmen , which was receiv 
od by the Central Government on the 15th October, 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 2 of 1968 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Dutta s Contral Kajora Colliery of Dutta s Central 
Kajora Coal Co. ( P ) Ltd ., 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT 

Shri B . N . Banerjee - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers- Sh : N . Das , Advocate . 

On behalf of Workmen - Absent, 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
By Order No. 682 /67 / LRII, dated January 6 , 1968 , the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) , rcferred the following dispute between the employers in relation to Dutta s Con . 
tral Kajora Colliery of Dutta s Central Kajora Coal Co . ( Private ) Ltd ., and their work 
men , to this tribunal, for adjudication , namely : -- 
" Whether the employers of Detta s Central Kujora Colliery . P .O ., Kajoragram 

District Burdwan werc justificd in terminating the services of Shri Nandlal 
Mitra with effect from the 10th June , 1967 ? If not, to what relief is the 
workman cntitled ?" 


AND 
2 . The cause of the workman does not appear to have been cspoused by any trado 
union . Notice of the refçrence was directed to be served both on the employer company 


4930 


1. EGAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART II 


And the workman concerned , by an order dated January 15 , 1968. By the said notice . 
the workman concerned was callod upon to file his written statement within 10 days of 
tho receipt of the notice and tho employers concerned were directed to file their written 
statemont within 10 days of the receipt of thọ writton statement filed by the workman 
It appoars from the postal acknowledgoment, that tho notico was received by the workman 
concorned on January 27 , 1968. He did not enter appearance before this tribunal por 
did bo flle any written statement. 

3 . Thereafter, by an order made on July 24 , 1968, tho 8th of August, 1968 was fixed 
for fixing the date of hearing of the reference in the presence of the parties. On 
August 8 , 1968, H . Bhalotia , a director of the employer company , appcared before this 
tribunal but nobody appeared for the workman . On that day , the employer company 
fled an application praying that the workman be called upon to produce certain docu 
moats, at the time of the hearing of the reference before this tribunal, The prayer was 
granted and notice , by Registered post, was sent to the workman concerned calling upon 
him to produce the aforesaid documents on October 9 , 1968, which was fixed as the 
dato of peremptory hcaring . It appears from the postal acknowledgement receipt that 
the workman concerned received the notice on August 21 , 1968 . 

4 . Today , the management appearod through an Advocate . The workman did not 
enter appoarance nor did he file the documents, which he had been called upon to do . 
I waited for him upto quarter to twelvo , but he did not come. Mr. Das, learned Ad 
Vocató for the croplyer company, stated that the employer company was not aware of tho 
whereabouts of the workman concernod . In these circumstances , I presume that tho 
Workman concerned is not interested in pursuing the dispute any longer or that no disputo 
now exists between the partios. 

. 
5. In the circumstances aforosaid , I record a no dispute order between the parties 
and make an award accordingly , 

Sd ./ - B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , October 9, 1968 . 

[No. 6 /82 /67-LR - II.) 


S . O . 3876 , -- In pursuance of section 17 of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
management of Jote Dhemo Colliery , Post Office Ukhra (Burdwan ) and their workme. 
which was received by tho Central Government on the 14th October , 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 88 of 1967 
PARTIES; 
Employers in relation to management of Joto Dhemo Colliery , 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri B . N . Banerjee - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Absent. 

On behalf of WorkmenThree concerned Workmen 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mince . 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 54/67- LR - II , dated November 14 , 1967, the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 
Employment ) , referred the following dispute between the emplovers in relation to the 
management of Jote Dhemo Colliery and their workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudicatiou , 
namely :-- 
" Whether the management of Jote Dhemo Colllery was justified in dismissing 

S / Shri Dipnarayan Singh , Sarju Singh and Ramharak Abir from service with 


Sec. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZĘTTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4937 


effect from the 6th February, 1967 ? 
cntitled ? " 


H not to what relief are the workmçn 


2 . The workers appear to have settled the disputo out of this tribunal, with tho om . 
ployers . In token thereof they filed a petition cancelling the authority of Asansol Coal 
Field Workers Union , which had adopted their case, and praying that the reference bo 
dropped. I, therefore , find that there is no further dispute between the omployers and 
the workmen and make a " no dispute" award in this reference . Let the petition filed 
before this tribunal today form part of this award . 

( Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , September 16 , 1968. 
The Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , 
20 , British Indian Strcot, 3rd floor, 
Calcutta . 
Respocted Sir , 

REFERENCE No . 88 of 1967 
With reference to the above we beg to submit that we havo made settlement with the 
Management of Jote Dhemo Colliery for our payments and service and hence the General 
Secretary, Asansol Coalfield Workers Union , Asansol is no more authorised to represent 
us in our case fixed for hçaring on 16th September, 1968. 

We therefore, request you to kindly drop the case as everything has been settled with 
the management of Jote Dhemo Colliery . 

Yours faithfully, 
(Sd. ) DITNARAYAN SINGH , 
L . T .I. of Şarju Abir. 

L . T .I. of Ramharak Ahir. 
Doted , 13th September, 1968 . 
Jote Dhemo Colliery, 
P .O . Ukhra , District Burdwan . 

[No. 6 / 54 /67-LR -II.) 
S. O . 3877 . - In pursuanco of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , in tho industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Joto 
Dheme Colliery , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwan and their workmen , which was 
rocoived by the Central Government on the 14th October , 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA , 

REFERENCE No . 77 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Jote Dhemo Colliory . 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri B . N . Banerjee Presiding Officor. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Absent 

On behalf of Workmen - Shri Madhusudan Roy . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
By Order No . 1 / 3 / 67 -LR - IT- ( 1) , dated Otober 20 , 1967, the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 


1028 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 LPARŢ II — 
- - 

- - - - - - - 

B E SOI - - - - = - = - - - = -- -- - - 
Employment ) , referred tho following dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Jote Dhemo Colliery and their workinen , to this trbunal for adjudiation namely : 
" Whether the lock -out and subsequent lay - off without compensation of the workers 

of Jote Dhemo Colliory was justified ? If not, to what relief are the work 

men entitlod ? 
2 . The employers were conspicuous by their non - cooperation with 
before this tribunal. Notice of this reference was served upon the Manager of the cm 

the proceedings 
ployer concern calling upon them to submit their reply to the written stalcmcnt of the 
workmen within 10 days of the roccipt of the copy of such written statement. The em 
ployers took to step . Therealter, notice was served upon them to attend beforo the 
tribunal for fixation of a date of hearing . On that date tho union reprosenting the 
workinen appeared but the employers did not. September 16 , 1968, was Axed for hearing. 
The union representing the workmen appeared but the employers did not care to do so . 
In these circumstances, I was compelled to proceed in the absence of the employers . 

3 . The caso made out by the workmen is that about 350 workmen are employed in 
the colliery known as Jote Dhemo Colliery , Tho employers defaulted in payment of 
salaries, wagas and bonus to their staff and other employees for some months in tho yoar 
1966 and from the months of May and June onwards for the year 1967. About 27 
workmen appealed to the management for payment of their ducs, on August 7 , 1967 . The 
Manager of the colliery , Sri Roy Burman , expressed sympathetic attitude but Sri Girish 
Ojha, Special Officer of the Colliery paid no heed to the prayer. He even told them that 
Dopo of the workmen Reed come from August 8 , 1967 as the colliery would stop working 
from that day The further case of tho workmen is that when they reported for work , 
in the first shift of August 8 , 1967, they found that there was nobody present either in 
the office or in the storo room and the attendance room was under lock and key. This 
action of the management, tho workmen state , amounted to illegal and unjustified lock - out. 
In order to cover up the wrongful action , the workmen state , the management sent notice 
in form N , falsely reporting that there was a strike in the colliery and because of the 
illegal strike the management was compelled to lay -off their workmen from August 8 , 
1967. The story of strike by the technical and supervisory staff is denied by the workmen . 

4 . The workers approached the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) . Raniganj, 
for conciliation . The employers , however, did not appcar before the said Officer, From 
the failure report, it appears that the employers merely contended themselves by filing a 
strike report in form N . 

5 . In support of the case made by the workmen , three witnesses were examined . Two 
of them were workmen of the colliery, namely Patiraj Rajbhar ( Pickminer ) and Rama 
dhar Harijan ( Trammer ) . Both of them said that the colliery was kept under lock and 
key . They went to work but could not work . The third witness was one Arun Bhatta 
charjee , Joint General Secretary of the Asansol Coal Field Workers Union. He proved 
the letter which was addressed by the Gencral Secretary of the Asansol Coal Ficld Workers 
Union to the Regional Labour Commissioner , dated August 12 , 1967 (Ext. 1 ) on the 
illegal lockout of the colliery. The material portion of the said letter reads: 
" This is to inform you that the Management of Jote Dhemo Colliery have locked 

out their mine from the 1st Shift of 8th August, 1967 , without observing any 

legal formalities as the Coal Industry is a Public Utility service . 
On 7th August, 1967 the workers and staff of the colliery went in a joint deputa 

tion to the Manager and Shri G . C . Ojha to request them for payment of 
their Salaries, Weekly wages , Bonus etc . Shri G , C . Ojha refused to listen 

their grievances and as a retaliation action has closed the mine.* * * " 
He further proved Ext. 2 , the notice from the office of the Assistant Labour Commissioner, 

The 
dated September 1, 1967, calling upon the parties to the dispute for conciliation . 
conciliation apparently failed , as the reference to this tribunal, by the Government order 

After the reference to this tribunal 
quoted at the beginning of this award , amply shows. 
was made, the Labour Department of the Government of India made the following 
further telegraphic order (Ext. 4 and 4A ): - - 

" DISPUTE JOTE DHEMO COLLIERY OVER LOCKOUT REFERRED TO 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CALCUTTA FOR ADJUDICATION OF 20TH INSTANT 
SIMULTANEOUSLY CONTINUANCE LOCKOUT PROHIBITED UNDER SECTION 
10 ( 3 ) I. D . ACT . 

6 . This is the gum total of the evidence , on which I have to decide this case . Now , 
lockout means: 
" the closing of a place of employment, or the suspension of work , or the refusal 

by an employer to continuo to employ any number of persons employed by 
him . " 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4939 
= - = = = - - - - 

- - - - 
On the evidence beforç me , I have to hold tbat the employers closed the place of em 
ployment, they refused to continue to employ workinen and attracted the mischief of 
definition of lock -out. There is no reason why this lock -out was cffccted , I huve, in the 
absence of better evidence , to hold that the lock - out was without suficient reason and 
therefore illcgal. Even after the reference to this tribunal, it appears, the cmployer com 
pany violated the order of Labour Department to lift the lock - out. That certainly attracts 
the penal provision of the law on them . Of the lay -off, I have no evidence before me. 
Arun Bhattacharjee , who deposed before me, said that he did not cven see the order of 
lay -off posted by the management. Therefore , if there was any order of lay -off, that was 
also equally illegul. 


7 . In the vicw that I take, I hold that the lock -out and lay -off were both unjustified . 
The workmen are entitled to their salaries , wages and all other benefits from August 8 . 
1967, upto this date and until the lockout is lifted , 
This is my award . 

(Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE, 

Presiding Officor, 
Dated , September 18 , 1968. 

[No . 1 /38 /67- LR - II .) 
S .O . 3878 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 ot, 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the cmployers in relation to the Joto 
Dhemo Colliery , Post Office Ukhra , Burdwan and their workmen , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 15th October, 1968. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 95 Or 1967 
PARTIBS: 
Employers in relation to the Jote Dhemo Colliery , 

AND 
Their workmon . 

PRESENT 
Shri B . N . Banerjee . - - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers- -Absent. 

On behalf of Workmen - Shri Madhu Sudan Roy . 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mines 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 56 / 67-LRII dated December 4 . th 1967, the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 
Employment ) , referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Joto 
Dhemo Colliery and their workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudication, namely : 
" Whether the management of Jote Dhemo Colliery was justified in not allowing 

Shri Hafiz Mia , Line Mistry , to resume duty on the 2nd February , 1967 after 
the re - opening of the collicry on the 22nd November 1966 ? If not, to what 

relief is the workman entitled ?" 
2 . In spite of several notices neither the workman nor the employer appeared before 
this tribunal, nor did they file any written stutement . Shri Madhu Sudan Roy , who is the 
General Secretary of the Asansol Coal Field Workers Union , States that he has not been 
able to establish contact with the workman concerned . In these circumstances , I feel that 
there is no dispute now subsisting between the employers and the employee . I thereforo 
record a " no dispute " award in this reference . 

şd . / - B , N , BANERJEL. 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , September 16 , 1968 . 

[No. F . 8 / 56 /67- LRII.) 


4940 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKĄ 11 , 1890 (PART 11 


9 . O . 3879 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) . tho Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri P . C . Rai, 
Arbitrator in the dispute between the management of Rawanwara Khas Collieries of Messrs 
Oriental Coal Company Limited , Parasia , District Chhindwara and their workonco repro 
sented by M , P . Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh , Chandamotta , District 
Chhindwara , which was received by tho Central Government on the 15th October , 1968. 
ARBITRATION AWARD OF SHRI P . C . RAI, REGIONAL LABOUR COMMISSIONER 

( CENTRAL ), JABALPUR IN THE CASE OF 5 COAL CUTTING MACHINE 
DRIVERS OF RAWANWARA KHAS COLLIERIES OF MESSRS ORIENTAL COAL 

COMPANY LIMITED , PARASLA . 
RCL File No. 1 — 83 (35 )/ 67 . 

M /L & E File No. 5 /65/67-LR. U 

PRESENT 
Shri P . C . Rai Regional Labour Commissioner (Central ) Jabalpur Arbitrator. 
Representing Employers - Shri R . L . Khullar, Manager, Rawanwara Khas Collicrles, M /8 . 

Oriental Coal Company Ltd ., Parasia . 
Representing the Workmen - Shri V . N . Dutta , General Secretary, M .P . Rashtriya Koyla 

Khadan Mazdoor Sangh ( INTUC ) , Chandametta , 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation , Deptt. of Labour and Employment, 
by notification No. 5 /65 /67 dated 14th November 1967 published an order in the Gazetto 
of India , which included an agreement under Section 10 - A of the Industrial Disputos Act, 
1947. By this order, the dispute was referred to my arbitration . The following is tho ro 
levant portion of the agreement : 
“ It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial disputo to 

the arbitration of Shri P . C . Rai, Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central) , 

Jabalpur : 
Specific matters in dispute 
Whether the notice of chango in the service conditions given by the management on 

the 18th day of September , 1967 under Section 9 - A of the Industrial Dis. 
putos Act 1947 in respect of the following workmen is just ? If not to what 

relief aro they entitled . 
Name of the workmen : 

( 1 ) Shri Kamaluddin 
( 2 ) Shri Ramjan 
( 3 ) Shri Saligram 
( 4 ) Shri Chuttan 
( 5 ) Shri Sukhoo 
( ii) Details of the parties to the dispute Including the name and address of the 

establishment or undertaking involved . 
( 1 ) The management of M / s . Oriental Coal Company Ltd . in relation to cheir Rawan 
wara Khas Collicry , P . O . Parasia (Dist. Chhindwara - M .P .) and 

(2 ) Their workmen represented by M . P . Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh 
( INTUC ) . Chandametta , P . O . Parasia , Dist. Chindwara - M . P . 
( ül) Name of the Union , if any, representiog the workmen : 

M .P . Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh ( INTUC ), Chandametta. 
( iv ) Total number of workmon employed in the undertaking affected : 

950 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected : 


The arbitrator shalı mako his award within a period of 3 months or within such 

further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing . 
In case the award is not made within the period aforementioned , the 
reference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall 

be free to negotiato for fresh arbitration ." 
In response to my request, none of the parties submitted their written statemcmts. 
However, the hearing in this case was fixed on 13th December 1967, to 24th January 1968 
and the final hearing took place on 13th February 1968 at the Circuit House, Chhindwara . 
After preliminary discussion with the parties, they had agreed to jointly check with refo 
rence to seniority if tho persons under dispute should be given work as Tugger- driver / 


Sec. 3 (i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4941 


Khalasi and if the person9 poder dispute are senior they would be employed u Turser 
Driver / Khalasi otherwise as trammer . In view of this, the parties agreed that to award 
was necessary . 

Later on further dates of hearing on 15th May, 1968, 27th May 1968 , 10th Juno 1968, 
26th Juno 1968, 2nd August 1968 , 14th August 1968 , and 30th September 1968 were fixed 
And ultimately , the following minutes were recorded after hearing op 1st October 1968 : 
" The parties informed me today that the arrangement made under proceedings on 

13th February 1968 have been implemented as demanded by the union . Tb . 

persons Arc omployed as follows: - - 
( 1 ) Shri Kamaluddin as Dresser 
( 2 ) Shri Ramjan as Haulage Khalesi 
( 3 ) Shri Saligram as Dresser 
( 4 ) Shri Chuttan as Haulage Khalasi 

( 5 ) Shri Sukhoo as Haulage Khalasi 
No, award is nocessary . 
Regarding wages, I directed the union to raise a fresh dispute , if they so desire ." 

In view of the above position , the parties have agreed that no award is necessary and 
, 3 do not give any award . 

P . C . RAI, 
Regional Labour Commissionor ( Central) Jabalpur Arbitrator . 
JABALPUR, 
Dated the 5th October, 1968 / Asvina 13 , 1890. 
Asvina 12, 1890 

[ No. 5 /65 /67-LRITJ 


New Delhi, the 24th October 1968 
S . O . 3880 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Methani 
Colliery of Messrs Equitablo Coal Company Limited , Post Office Dishergarh , District 
Burdwan and their workmen , which was reccived by the Central Government on the 14th 
October, 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAI, TRIBUNAL. CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 14 OF 1968 
PARTTES : 
Employers in relation to the Mcthoni Colliery of M / s. Equitable Coal Company 

Limited . 


AND 
Their workmen, 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjee - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers — Shri M . K . Mukherjee, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen - Shri Nikhilesh Das, Advocate , 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Minos . 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 12 /68 -LRII dated March 13, 1968 , the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Departtirent of Labour and Employ 
ment) , referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Methani 
Colliory of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited and their workmen , to this tribunal, 
for adjudication, namely : 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Bišovhari Chatterjee , Provident Fund Clerk , by the 

management of Methani Collicry with effect from the 10th November. 1967 
was justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?" 


- 


- 


: - 


- 


4942 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11 , 1890 [PART II 
- - SSSS = . : 

- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- -- 
2 , There is no disputc that the workman Bijoyhari Chatterjee was on sick leave from 
June 17 , 1967 to July 3 , 1967. This also appears from the attendance registçi Ext. B . 
According to the employer company, the workman again absented himself thereafter, 
without lcave or authorisation . This is also borno out by the attendance register , Ext. B . 
On July 27, 1967, the workman abovenamed was called upon to show cause why dis 
ciplinary action should not be taken against him " for absenting without permission since 
July 1967." 


3 . Before I proceed further , I need state here that there is some disputo as to the 
department of thc cmployer company, in which the workinan was employed . According 
to the employer company , thc workrnan was ä clerk in the Cooperntive storcs . According 
to the workman , however , he had worked under the employer company in different capa 
cities , firstly as an underground time-keeper, then as a Provident Fund clerk , thercafter 
As a de- facto pay clerk under his old designation as Provident Fund clerk and then as u 
clerk in the Colliery Cooperative Stores under his old designation of Provident Fund clerk . 
Further , according to the workmen he was relieved of his work as a clerk in the Co 
operative Storcs , in August 1966 , and worked in different capacities under the verbal orders 
of the Welfare Officer. 

4 . The workman showed cuuse to the charge levelled against him , on August 17 , 1967. 
and therein stated 

I beg to submit that I handed over the charge from Cooperative Stores on . 
26th August , 1966 and since then I was working in different capacities as per 
verbal instruction of our Welfare Officer . After my authorised sick leave , I 
was declared fit on 4th July . 1967 and approached the Welfare Officer for 
his instruction for my duty . He told me to wait till he gets instruction from 
H . O . regarding my duty . I am not absenting but waiting for his further 
instruction for my deputation , as he said . In this regard I should not havo 
been issued chargesheet but an order of deputation should have botn givoo 

to me. * * * " 
5. On the basis of the chargesheet, there was an enquiry held by Sri S . Banerjee , a 
Labour Officer of the employer company. On the first day of enquiry , that is to say on 
September 6 , 1967 , three witnesses on behalf of the management were examined , namely , 
N . D . Boso , the Welfare Officer, Robi Lochan Banerjee , the time keeper and A , Karak , 
clerk Personnel section . N . B . Bose stated in his evidence before the enquiring officer : 
" I have to state that Sri Bijoyhari Chatterjee continuously worked as co -operativo 

store clerk ever since 26th August, 1966 . As he had no job at Cooperativo 
Stores due to the Cooperative was under lock and key for some trouble , I 
took the permission of the Chairman and Secretary of the Cooperative Stores 
and told Sri Chatterjee to prepare paysheets of the trammers for 2 week 
payments only . . . . . . . again when the Cooperative was opened he worked 
at the Cooperative stores all along. , . , . Sri Chatterjee never came to me on 
4th July , 1967 for duty and I never gave him any instruction that he would 
be given job only when Head Office would instruct me. The fact is that Srl 
Chatterjee absented from duty since 4th July , 1967 at his own accord ." 


in cross -examination , it was suggested to this witness that he had given trouble to the 
workman concerned in January 1967. He however denied this. The time-keeper Robf: 
Lochan Banerjee said in his evidence, before the enquiring officer : 
" I have to state that Sri Bijoyhari Chatterjee was deputed to work in the com 

operative Stores since its starting. He worked all along in the Cooperative 
Stores as a clerk even after 26th August, 1966 . . . . . . . . . . . . Sri Chatterico 
reported sick from 17th June. 1967 and he was made fit on 4th July , 1967 . 
Aftor 3rd July , 1967 hc never came to the colliery for duty , he was also 

not traceable in the colliery . " 
This witness was very ineffectively cross-ex . mined by the workman . The other witneas 
examined on behalf of the manugement , namely A . Karak , clerk in the Personnel Section , 
also stated th Bijoyhari Chatterjee was absenting from duty from July 4 , 1967, of him 
own accord and sent no information to the colliery . He did not come, this witness further 
stated, on July 4 , 1967 for duty and also thereafter. 

6 . After the examination of the above named threc witnesses the enquiry was adjourned 
to September 12 , 1967 , because the management wanted to examine further witnesses 
Strangely enough , nobody on behalf of the management was pregont on September 12 , 1967, 
The workman concerned alone attended the enguiry . It is said that on that day , before 
the enquiring officer, he made the following voluntary statement (Ex2 ) : 
" I have further to state in reply to chargeshcet No. 1349 dated 27th July , 1967 that 

I was severely ( saulted by the workers of the colliery on 16th June , 1967 
and became sick from that day . I was under the treatment of the colliery 


SEÇ , 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 / KARTIKA 11, 1890 4943 
-- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- -----..-. . S 

Mcdical oliicer from 16th June , 1967 to 3rd July 1967. I admit that I did 
not come to the colliery on 4th July , 1967 and afterwards for reporting my 
duty due to fear of my lifo . I admit that I absented from n yduty since 
4th July , 1967 of my own accord owing to the reason stated above. I may 
kindly be excused for my fault." 


The above statement was marked as Ext. 2 before this tribunal. The reason for giving 
this stalement , I shall have to dçul with hercifafter. The enquiry , however , was adjourned 
from September 12 , to October 26 , 1967, when Sibaprasad Misra , Accounts clerk and ex 
chairman of the Cooperative Storcs , was examined on behalf of the management. This 
witness stated that the workman Bijoyhari Chatterjee was all along, employed in the Co 
operativo stores as a clerk and worked in the Cooperative Stores cven after August 26 , 
1966 until he began to absent himself from duty from July 4 , 1967. At the end of tho 
enquiry procceding the workman concerned wrote out as follows : 
" I have to state in reply to my above chargesheet that I have nothing more to state 

over and above what I have already stated in reply to my chargesheet. I 
have no evidence either documentary or witness to produce." 


The enquiring officer was not satisfied with the explanation given by the workman, for the 
following reasons : 
“ ( ) from the evidence recorded it appeared that the delinquent Bijoyhari Chatterjee 

could not prove that he reported for duty to the Welfare Officer on July 4 . 

1967. 
( b ) the delinquent also failed to provo that he was not working in the Cooperativo 

stores after August 26 , 1966 . Therefore his place of duty was at Coopera 
tive . Stores . . . . . . In the cross - examination the delinquent also could not 
establish that he was not working at the Cooperative Stores after 26th August, 

1966 as per verbal order of the Welfare Officer. 
( c ) again the delinquent made another statement during the onquiry in which ho 

admitted that due to fear of his life he absented from duty from Joly 4 . 
· 1967 of his own accord . The reply on the body of the chargesheet and his 

admission during the enquiry , the reply ( on the body of the chargesheot ) 
heing contradictory , his reply on the body of the chargesheet cannot be relied 
upon . The delinquent also failed to produce any evidence in support of his 
case." 


On the finding as aforesaid , the enquiring officer recommended his dismissal. That recom 
mendation was accepted and the delinquent workman was ordered to be dismissed . This 
gave rise to an industrial dispute, which was espoused by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress 
and the matter was at last referred to this tribunal for adjudication . 


7 . When the dispute was placed before this tribunal, the written statement filed on 
behalf of the workman, by the General Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Congress , introduced 
certain improvements in the defence of the workman , namely : 
(a ) In paragraphs 7 to 15 of the written statement, it was stated that the chargo 

was a got up one and was the product of the displeasure of the employer s 
Labour Adviser , S . K . Bhattacharjee , against the workman . It was alleged 
that about the middle of the year 1966 , an incompetent person known as . 
Misra and a dishonest person known as Fariddi respectively became Chairman 
and Secretary of the Cooperative Stores. Taking advantage of the position : 
Fariddi misappropriated a huge sum of money belonging to the Cooperative 
Stores. It was further alleged that Bijoyhari Chatterlee , the workman con 
cerned , reported the matter to Taneja , the Chief Mining Engineer of the com 
pany, and $ . K . Bhattacharjee , the Labour Adviser of the company, but they 
did not take any interest in the matter. The result was that the Cooperativo 
Stores became defunct in the middle of June , 1967 and Fariddi got away . 
At this stage , it was also alleged , that Bijoyhari Chatterjee, the workman 
concerned , becamo sick and had to take sick leave for some time and after 
hc became fit he went about asking for employment in some capacity but 
without any response from the employers . At last , he approached the Labour 
Adviser and asked for his job but the said Labour Adviser rebuked him and 
called him an accomplice of Farddi. The workman dil not succumb to this 
and reminded the Labour Adviser that he had complained about the mal 
practice of Fariddi earlier to him but no notice was taken of that complaint, 
He also made similar complaint to an Officer of the Cooperative Department 
of the West Bengal Government, who had came to enquire into the matter. 
This enraged the Labour Adviser, S . K . Bhattacharjee , and he thumbed up the 
false chargesheet upon the workman , 


4944 


THE 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part II - 


- 


- 


- 


( b ) The Doputy Labour Adviser of the company, who was made the Enquiring 

Officer , it was alleged , told tho workman concerned that he need not be 
serious about tho charge and that he would have a talk with the Chief 
Mining Engineer and try to drop the charge against the workman . He how 
ever told the workman . It was further argued, that the Labour Adviser 
might oppose the dropping of the charge, unless the workman admitted the 
chargo himself and, therefore , the workman should put his signature on # 
paper admitting tho charge. If even thercafter , the Labour Adviser would 
not agree to drop the charge , the enquiring officer would destroy the jo 

criminating paper. 
( c ) In paragraph 20 of the written statement, it was stated that the inducement 

and allurement held out by the Enquiring Officer did not stop there and to 
creato confidence evon reference to racial and provincial affinity was refer 
red to and the workman , a man of straw in comparison with the dexterity 
and cloverness of Mr. Banerjee easily swallowed the pill and obliged the 
Enquiring oficer in good faith and relying on his representation put his 
sigoature on the statement which moro or less purported to be an admission 

of tho charge." 
This improvement, as introduced in the written statement, the workman wanted to prove 
by his evidence . He stated : 
" During the course of enquiry the enquiring officer Mr. Banerjee asked me to see 

him at his bungalow . I saw him at his bungalow on Septembor 11 , 1967 . 
At that time there had been only one day of enquiry and cnquiry was part 
heard . On that day ho suggested to mo to put my signature on a statement, 
to be dictated by him , . . . . Mr. Banerjce wrote out this statement and I 
put my signature thereon. The signature is mine. What is written in the 

statement is not true . I put my signature on it through inducement. 
In cross -examination he statod : 
" The talk that I had with Mr. Banerjee about putting my signature on the statement, 

Ext. 2 , nobody else is awaro of and it was done privately. Before pleading 
about the putting of signaturo on Ext. 2 , in the written statement before this 
Tribunal, I did not speak about this to anybody else earlier . . . . . It is untrue 

that I out of my own will put my signature on Ext. 2 . " 
8 . The enquiring officer , S . Banerjee , was examined before this tribunal. In his examina 
- tion in -chief he said : 
" The delinquent Bijoyhari Chatterjee voluntecred one statement and I had the state 

ment recorded. ( Shown Ext. 2 ). This is the statement of Bijoyhari, which 
I recorded . The statement was read over and explained to him and admitted 
by him as correct. Thereafter, he put his signature on the statement." 


9 . It may be somewhat strange that the delinquent workman , who had shown causo 
denying the charge , who had on the first day of the çnquiry cross -examined witnesscs in 
order to disprove the charge , suddenly broke down on September 12 , 1967 and made a 
full and complete admission of the charge . But, however , strange his conduct may be, I 
cannot induce myself to believe that the workman concerned was made to sign on that 
statement under false hopes held out by the Enquiring Officer. He is no Pardanashin 
woman . He is a literate man , an English knowing person and to all appearance a man of 
some shrowdoess. According to his cvidence , he is capable of making complaints in high 
- quarters . 

10 . There are three grounds on which I am not prepared to believe that thc workman 
concerned made to make the admission contained in Ext. 2 : - - 

( i ) The workman addressed a letter to the Secretary , Methani Colliery Employees 
Cooperative stores , on December 1, 1967 (part of bundle of documents collectively marked 
Ext. A ) . That letter was voluntarily written by him . He states in this letter as follows: 
" In this connection I would mentioned that I discharged my duty efficiently at the 

Cooperative stores all along . But the affairs of the Cooperative Stores be 
came more and more irregular since Fariddi, the outgoing Secretary took 
over the charge resulting in some malpractices. The managing committee of 
the Cooperative store took no action against Mr. Pariddi which further 

deteriorated the situation and thero was huge misappropiiation of money . 
Due to the shameful Affairs there accrued labour trouble in the colliery and I became 

the victim of assault by some miscreants on 16th June, 1967 at the colliery . 
I could not como to the collicry after the incident as I was afraid of my life and 

nobody took any step to prevent that. As a result of that I was chargesheeted 


- 


- 


- 


Sac . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4945 

5 : 

- - = = 
by the management for unauthorised absence and dismissed from company s. 

vervice . 
The statement contalaed in this letter is not very much different from the admission mado 
by Bijoyhari Chatterjee in Ext. 2 . 
( ii ) The domestic enquiry took ovidence and belicved in the evidence of the Welfaro 

Officer , the time keeper , the personnel clerk and ex -Chaiſinan of the Coopera 
tive stores to the effect that the workman concerned was absenting from 
duty from July 4 , 1967 , without leave and without any permission . Thoso 
witncses were cross -examined by the delinquent workinun but they were not 
shaken in cross -examination . I am not sitting in appeal over the fading of the 
domestic enquiry . If other evidence supports the admission made by the 
concerned workman , I do not find any reason to differ from the finding 

arrived at the domestic enquiry . 
(iii ) At no time before filing the written statement before this tribunal, did the work 

man complain to anybody that a statement containing an admission by him 
was wrongfully procured from him by the Enquiring officer and was being 
used as a ground for dismissing him . According to the cvidence of the 
concerned workman , the statement was to be returned to him if the chargo 
was not dropped . I wonder how the workman could be so good as to believe 
in the verbal statement of the Enquiring Officer that he had had destroyed 
the signed statement of the workman . It was expected that he would raise 

A row over this procured statement earlier , if his story was true. 
11 . For all these reason , I fjarl that the workman has failed to make out any case . Even 
if the admission is to be kept out of consideration , oven thon there is the evidence of tho 
Welfare Officer , the time-keeper and the personnel clerk , as also of the ex -Chairman of tho 
Cooperative stores, all of whom unanimously say that the concerned workman was absent 
Ing without loave from July 4 , 1967. Therefore , the charge of absenteeism is made out 
against the concerned workman even without his admission . Since I cannot interfere with 
the findings of tho domestic enquiry based on evidence , which are not perverse , I havo 
to accept the findings as they are . 

12 . It was next argued before me that even if the charge was made out against tho. 
workman , he should not have been penalised with the extreme penalty of dismissal. This 
argument is misconceived . Absence without permission and without satisfactory reason , 
for more than 10 days , is a misconduct under the Standing Ordors of the employer com 
pany ( Ext. C ) . Once this conduct is established , the quantum of punishment is in tho 
hands of the employer. It is not for me to substitute a lesser punishment than what the 
employer thought fit and proper to impose. 

13 . For the reasons aforesaid , I am of opinion that the dismissal of Bijoyhari Chatterice 
by the management of Methani Colliery with effect from 10th November, 1967 was justified 
and the workman is not entitled to any reller. 
I award accordingly . 

( Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , September 19th , 1968 . 
September 19th , 1968 . 

INo. 6 / 12/ 68 -LRII.) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 


8 . 0 . 3881. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Simlabahal Colliery of Bhalgora Coal 
Company Limited, Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said disputo 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government 
hereby refers the sald dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No . 3 ), Dhanbad , 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


1946 


THE GAZETTĘ OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 (PART I 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Simlababal Colliery owned by Bhalgora Coal Company 

Limited , Post Office Jharla , District Dhanbad was justified in stopping tho 
following workmen from work with effect from the dates noted against 
cach 

- - 


S .No. 


Name of the workm n 


Designition 


Date 


- 


- - - - 


- 


Pick Miner 


1. Shri Sattar Selkh 
2. My Seo L1 Sao 

, Dishu Rabidas 

» Nirayan Sau 
s . Sadhu Koiri 

· Likhin Pındit 
7. », Bibulil Koiri 

» Cingi Jaiswara 
» Jawahir Loth 

Nandku Loth 

Dayal Jaiswara 
12. » Bharai Juiswara 
13 . Babib 
14 . „ Wazil Main 
15. Most Habibon Bibi 


2 - 4 - 1968 
27 - 4 - 1968 
27- 4 - 1968 
28 - 3 - 1968 
28 - 3- 1968 
78 - 3 - 1968 
* 1 - 1968 

;- 1968 
26 - 3 - 1968 
28 - 3- 1968 
28 -3 - 1968 
28-3-1968 
1 - 3 - 1968 
I- 3 - 1968 
1- 4 - 1968 


H /Mazdoor 

Trammer 
W /Lorder 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


If not, 10 what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


[No. 2 / 106 /68 - LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 26th October 1968 


S . O . 3882. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
oxists between the employers in relation to the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery , 
Chanda , District Chanda (Maharashtra ) and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified , in the Schedulo hereto ønnexed ; 


And Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said disputo 
for adjudication . 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section (1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Hindustan Lupeth Colliery , Chanda, District Chanda 

was justilicd in refusing to pay pushing allowance to underground Loaders 
at the rate prescribed in para 37 of Wago Board s Recommendations at 
page 116 (Vol. I) of the Report of thc Central Wage Board for the Coal 
Mining Indutry ? If not , to what relief , are these workmen entitled ? 


(No. 1/ 12 /68-LRII.] 


SALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


SEC 31m ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4947 


(Dopartment of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 23rd October 1988 
8 . 0 . 3883. In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , in the Industrial Dispute between the employers in relation to Messrs . 
A . C . Roy and Company (Private ) Limited . Calcutta , and their workmen , which was 
Toccived by the Central Government on 17th October , 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA , 

REFERENCE NO. 1 OF 1968 
PARTIBS : 
Employers in relation to Messrs A . C . Roy and Company ( Private ) Limited , Calcutta , 

AND 
Their workmen . 


PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjce , Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri R . Das Gupta , Labour Adviser.- - On behalf of Employer . 
Shri P . K . Ganguly , Joint General Secretary , National Union of Waterfront 

Workers. - On behalf of Workmen . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Port and Dock . 

AWARD 
By Order No. 28 /49 / 67 - 1,RIII, daled November 2 . 1967 , the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour. Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment), referred the following disputes between the employers in relation to Messrs 
A . C . Roy and Company (I rivate ) Limited. Calcutta . and their workmen , to this tribunal 
Cor adjudication , namelv : 
" Whether the following demands of the Assistant Supervisors of Messrs A . C . Roy 

and Company ( P ) Limited . Calcutta are justified ? If so , what relief are they 

entitled to and from what date ? 
1 . 8 paid holidays in a calendar year, 
2. Acting allowanco at enhanced rates and also for night shift Assistant Supervisors. 
3. Paid weekly holiday . 
4 . Attendance allowance. 
5. Casual Leave . sick leave and privilege leave. 
6 . House rent and City Compensatory allowance. 
7 . Children s Education allowance." . 


2 . The emplover company appeared before this tribunal through Shri R . Das Gupta , 
Labour Adviser. The causc of the workmen was espoused by thc National Union of 
Waterfront Workers and Mr. P . K . Ganguly , Joint General Secretary of the Union , appeared 
before this tribunal to represent the workmen . 


3 . The parties to the dispute amicably settled their disputes and in token thereof filed 
a joint petition of compromise before this tribunal. They prayed that an award he mado 
in terms of the joint petition of setilement. 
I award accordingly . Let the joint petition of settlement form part of this award . 

( Sd . ) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer . 


Dated , October 4 , 1968 . 


4948 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11 , 1890 (PART II. . . 


THE GAZETTE 


BEFORE SHRI B . N . BANERJEE , PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 
In tho matter of Reference No. 1 of 1968 

AND 
Lo the matter of an industrial dispute 

BETWEEN 
Messrs . A . C . Roy & Company Private Limited , 19 , R . N . Mukherjee Road , Calcutta - 1: 
(hereinafter referred to as " the Company ) 

AND 
Their Workmen (Assistant Supervisors) represented by National Union of Waterfront. 
Workers, 10 , Mohan Chand Road , Calcutta 23 

(heroinafter referred to as " the Union ") 
The humble potition of the company and the Union abovenamod . 
Most Respectfully Sheweth : - - 

1 . That your petitioners have amicably settled the dispute mentioned in the Schedulo 
to the present Order of Reference , and submit this joint petition of compromise for con 
sideration of the Honourable Tribunal. 
2 . That the aforesaid dispute have been sottled on tho following terms and conditions: 
( i) Paid Holldays.- - Tho workmen shall be entitled to the following holidays with 

pay in every calendar your: 
( a ) Ropublic Day 
( b ) Independence Day 
(c ) Bijoya Dashmi 
(d ) Mahatma Gandhi s Birthday 
(c ) Kall Puja 
( f ) Id -ul- Fitor 
(d ) Id -uz-Zuha 
(b ) Cristmas Day : 


Provided that the workmen shall remain obliged to work on any of tho aforoould 

holidays as and when requisitioned by the Company, and that for such work 
on holidays , the workmen shall be paid singlo extra wages for shift / shifts 

10 worked , in addition to a single wago for the holiday concernod . 
( 1 ) Acting Allowance. The workmen shall be entitled to acting allowance at the 

rate of Rs. 3 as and when they are required to act in place of Supervisors 

or any higher post. 
(iil ) Acting Allowance for work on Night Shift ( 3rd shift ) . — The workmen shall be 

entitled to Night Shift Allowance at tho rate of Rs. 2 for work on 3rd sbitt 

Onlv . 
( iv ) Paid Weekly Holiday . — The workmen shall be entitled to weekly roster off with 

pay on a staggering basis. In other words, some of the workmen , as may 
be decided upon by the Company, will get one particular day ag weekly holi 
day. and others to selected will get another day as weekly holiday , and lo 
this way , everybody will get one day off in a week on the aforesaid basla. 

Such holiday will be paid holiday for those enjoying it. 
( v ) Attendance Allowance . The workmen shall be entitled to Re. 1 per day for 

recording their attendance at the office on days when no work is available , 
provided that no attendance allowance shall be payablo for any day for 

which wages have been paid , 
(vi) Leave. — The workmen shall be entitled to leave facilities in every calondar year 

on the following basis : 
( a ) Privilege leave on full ray at the rate of one day for every 12 (twelyo ) days 

work provided that attendance without availability of work shall be treated 
as on duty for the purposes of calculation of leave . The leave shall bo 
cumulative up to a maximum period of 90 days. 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4949 


( b ) Sick leave on full pay for 7 (seven ) days, provided that an additional 3 (thrce ) 

days may be granted in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Com 
pany. The Icave shall be cumulative by 7 (sovon ) days in overy calendar 

year upto u maximum period of 60 days. 
( c ) Casual leave on full pay for 5 ( five ) days. The leave shall be non -cumulative . 
( vii ) House Rent, City Compensatory Allowance and Children s Education Allow 

ance . - The Union forgoes the demands on the aforesaid items in consideration 

of the benefits agreed to by the Company hereabove 
(viii ) The Company agrees to give effect to the benefits stated hereabove with effect 

from 1st January , 1968, provided that calculations of arrcars shall be done 
in consultation with the Union , Tho Union also agroos to extend nocessary 

co -operation in the matter, 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that tho Honourable Tribunal may bo graciously 

pleased to approvo of the terms and conditions stated abovo and pass an 

Award in terms of this joint compromiso potition . 
And for this act of kindness, your petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray . 
Representing the Union 

Roprosenting the Company 
(Sd.) P . K . GANGULY , 
Joint General Secretary , 
National Union of Waterfront Workers 

(Sd .) S . M . CHOWDHURY , 

Director , 
( Sd . ) R . DAS GUPTA , 

Labour Advisor. 

No. 28 / 49 /67 -LR .III.) 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Socy . 


(Department of Labour and Employmont) 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1968 
S . O . 3884 . – Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 

( 1) Gurukul Kangri Pharmacy 

(2 ) Rishikul Ayurvedic Pharmacy 
were situated in Hardwar area which was a sparse area ( that is an area whose insurable 
population was less than 300 ) in tho district of Sabaranpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh : 

And , whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area , tho aforesaid factories were 
grantod oxemption from tho payment of the employers special contribution under section 
73F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until cnforcement of tho 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central Government in the Noti 
fication of the Government of India in tho late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S . O . 2665 dated the 11th November, 1961; 

And , whoroas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population of tho 
Hardwar area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now exceeded 
500, and it is no longer a sparso area ; 

Now , therefore, in exorciso of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Employees 
Stato Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Goverament hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendmont in the said notification , namely : 
In Schedulo VI to the said notification under " Saharanpur Division " against Serial 

No. 15 the entry " Hardwar " in column 4 and the corresponding entries in 
column 5 shall be omitted . 

[No. F .6 (63 ) / 68-HI.1.] 
S . O . 3885 , — Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that The Ashok Plywood 
Trading Co . was situated in Jwalapur arca which was a sparso arca ( that is , an area whosc 
insurable population was less than 300 ) in the district of Saharanpur in tho State of Uttar 
Pradesh ; 

And , whereas by virtue of its location in a sparta Area , tho aforesald factory was 
grantod otemption from the paymont of the employers special contribution under section 


4950 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Paki IL- - 


73F of the Employees Stato Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that arga by the Central Government in the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S . O . 2665 dated the 11th November , 1961; 

And , whereas the Central Goveroment is satified that the insurablc population of the 
Jwalapur area in the district of Sabaranpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now exceeded 
500, and it is no longer a sparge area ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the said notification, namely : 
la Schedule VI to the said notification under " Saharanpur Division " against Serial 

No. 15 , the entry " Jwalapur" in column 4 and the corresponding entry in 
column 5 shall bo omitted , 

No. F .6 (63 ) /68 -HI. II. ] 


S . O . 3886 . — Whereas the Central Government was satified that National Small Institute 
was situated in Swalapur area which was a spasse area (that is, an arca whose insurable 
population was less than 500 ) in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh ; 


And , whereas by virtue of its location in a spanse arca, the aforesaid factory was 
granted exemption from the payment of the employers special contribution under section 
73F of the Employcos Stato Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central Govornment in notification 
of the Government of Indla in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 1883 , 
dated the 1st July , 1963 ; 


And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population of the 
Jwalapur area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparso area: 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conforted by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further Amendment in the said notification , namely : 
" In the Schedule to the said notifcation against Serial No . 5 relating to the District 

of Şaharanpur , the ontry " Jwalapur " in column 3 and the corresponding 
entry in column 4 shall be omitted ." 

No. F.6 (63 ) /68-HI II. ] 


S . O . 3887. - Whereas the Contral Government was satisficd that Uttar Pradesh Gov 
ernment Roadways Workshops was situated in Hardwar area which was a sparse area 
(that is, an area whoso fasurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of Saharan 
pur in the State of Uttar Pradesh ; 


And , whereas by virtue of its location in a sparso area , the aforesaid factory was 
granted exemption from the payment of the employers special contribution under section 
737 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that arca by the Central Government in the noti 
fication of the Governinont of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S .O . 1883 , dated the 1st July , 1963 ; 


And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurabļo population of the 
Hardwar area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Cosurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the sald notification , namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notification , against Serial No . $ relating to the District 

of Saharanpur , the entry " Hardwar" in column 3 and the corresponding 
ontsy in column 4 shall be omitted. 

[NO. F .6 ( 63 ) / 68 -HI.IV . ] 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4951 


S . O . 3888 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of sub -scction (1 ) of 
section SA of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) the Central Gov 
crnment hereby appoints Shri Dharni Dhar as a member of the Contral Board of Trustees, 
and makes the following further amendment in the notification of tho Government of 
India in the late Department of Social Security No. S . O . 1156 dated the 1st April, 1965 , 
nåmely 
In the said notification , for the entry against serial number 3, the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
" Shri Dharni Dhar, Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy Secretary to the 

Government of India , Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment), New Delhi" , 

[No. 4 (5 )67- P. F .I.] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1968 
S . O . 3889. - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment ) $ . O . 2876 , dated 
the 22nd August, 1968, published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary , Part II, Section 
3 Sub -section ( ii ) at pages 877 and 878, 
At page 877 — 

( i) in line 12 , for " Schemes " read " Scheme" : 
( ii) in line 18 for " employees " read " employer" ; 
( it ) in lipe 22 , for " Central" , read " Central or State " . 

[No. 36 ( 7 ) /67 -PFI / I.) 


S . O . 3890 . - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) S . O . 2877 dated 
the 22nd August, 1968, published at pago 878 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary , Part 
II , Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii) dated the 22nd August, 1968 at page 878 in line 2 for 
" Scheincs " read " Scheme" , 

[No. 36 ( 7) /67-PFI / II.] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1968 


