CENTRA . 
REGISTERED No. D . 222 . - U " 


tudo 


The Gazette 


of 


India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
No. 23] NEW DELHI , SATURDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1952 


PART II — ection 2 
Bills and Reports of Select Committees on Bills 


HOUSE OF THE PEOPLE 
The following Bill was introduced in the House of the People on 27th 
November , 1952 : 

Bill No. 122 OF 1952 
A Bill to amond the Cinematograph Act , 1962 
BE it enacted by Parliament as follows : 

1 . Short title . — This Aot may be called the Cinematograph (Amend 
mont) Act , 1952. 

2 . Amendment of section 6 Act XXXVII of 1982 . - In section 6 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act ), 
the proviso shall be omitted . 

8 . Insertion of new section BA in Act XXXVII of 1952 . - After section 
& of the principal Act, the following section shall be ingerted , namely : 

" 64 . Information and documents to be given to distributors and 
Ophibitors with respeot to certified films. - Any person who delivers 
any certified film to any distributor or exhibitor shall , in such manner 
A8 may be prescribed , notify to the distributor or exhibitor, as the 
cage may be, the title , the length of the film , the number and the 
nature of the certificato granted in respect theroof and the conditions, 
if any, subject to which it has been so granted , and any other parti 
culars respecting the film which may be prescribed ." 

4 , Amendment of section 7 , Act XXXVII of 1952. - For sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 7 of the principal Act , the following sub -section shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 

" (1) If any person 
(a ) exhibits or permits to be exhibited in any place 

(i) any film other than a film which has been certified 
by tho Board As suitablo for unrestricted public exhibition or 
for public exhibition restricted to adults and which , when 
exhibited , displays the prescribed mark of the Board and has 
not been altered or tampered with in any way gince such 
mark way affixed thereto , 

( 589 ) 


590 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DEC , 6 , 1952 [ PART 11 - , 27 


( ii ) any film , which has been certified by the Board as 
suitable for public exhibition l estricted to adults , to any 
person who is not an adult, or 

(6 ) without lawful authority (the burden of proving which 
shall be on him ), alters or tampers with in any way any film 
after it has been certified , or 

(o ) fails to coinply with the provision contained in seotion 
6A or with any order made by the Central Government or by the 
Board in the exercise of any of the powers or functions conferred 

on it by this Act or the rules made thereunder, 
he shall be punishablo with imprigonment which may extend to three 
months. or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees , or with 
both , and in the case of a continuing offonce with a further fine 
which inny ( xtend to one thousand rupees for each day during which 
the offenco continues . 


cer, 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The Cinematograph Act, 1052 , re -enacted the provisions of the 1918 
Act separating matters relating to sinctioning of cinematograph films for 
exhibition , which is a Union subjoct, from matters relating to licensing 
and regulation of cincmas, which is a State subject. However, certain 
defects havo heen noticed in the course of actual administration , which 
it is necossary to rectify in the interests of effective enforcement of the 
provisions of the Aot . 

Under the proviso tc section 6 of the Act notice has to be given to 
the porson who has bcon granted a certificate to show cause as to why 
the film should not be uncertified before guch an order is issued by the 
Central Govomment. This provision acrves no useful purpose . On the 
other hand, the procedure for giving notice entails such a delay that the 
very object of uncertification is defeated . It is therefore proposed to 
delete the proviso . 

A number of cascs in which films have been exhibited with portions 
not passed by the Central Board of Film Censors have been brought to 
the notice of Government ; in certain cages , portiong ordered to be removed 
have been reinserted . Such interpolations are all too easy in the case of 
films. It is therefore necessary to recast the penalty clause 80 A8 to 
cover tampering with certified films after certification end to ensure 
transmission of complete information relating to the certificate to the 
distributor and the exhibitor. It is also proposed to enhance the penalty , 
as , at prosent, it is inadequate as a deterrent . 

B . V. KESKAR . 
NEW DELHI ; 
The 14th November, 1952 . 


M . N . KAUL , 

Sooretary . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER GOVT, OF INDIA PRESO , NEW DELHI 
M PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI. 1952 


