(Easette 



of Snbia 

K. h~2L list' 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY*" 


No. 47] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1956 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 17th November 

1956 


Issue 

No. No. and date Issued by Subject 


342 S.R.O. 2647, dated the 13th Ministry of Finance Amendment made In the notifica- 

November, 1956 - (Department of tion No. 33-Customs, dated the 

Revenues). 22nd June, 1935. 

343 S.R.O. 2648, dated the 12th Election Commission, List of Symbols to be used for 

November, 19J6. India. elections to Parliamentary, 

Assembly and Electoral College 
Constituencies. 

S.R.O. 2649, dated the 12th Ditto. Direction to candidates to choose 

Nov mber, 1956. symbols at the time of elections. 

344 S.R.O. 2650, dated the 14th Ministry of Finance. Draft Rules of the Securities 

November, 1936. Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 

I 1956. 

345 S.R.O. 2631, dated the 14th Central Board of Amendment made in the Pas- 

November, 1956. Revenue. sengers Baggage (Exemption 

from Customs Duty) Rules, 1956. 

346 S.R.O. 2712, dated the 14th Ministry of Home Rule made by the Central Gov- 

November, 1956. Affairs.) eminent for the allowance to 

the Ministry of Community 
Development. 

347 S.R.O. 2713, dated the 15th Ministry of Law, The Bihar and West Bengal 

November, 1936. (Transfer of Territories) 

Delimitation of Constituencies 
Rules, 1956. 

348 S.R.O. 2714, dated the 14th Election Commission, Appointment of an assistant to 

November, 1956. India. the Returning Officer for elec- 

tion to the Council of States 
to be held in pursuance of the 
notification No. 472/8/56 (1) 
dated 9th November, 1956. 


( 1945 ) 







194 s THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1066 [Pa*t II— Sec. H 


Issue 

No. 


| No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

S.R.O 2715, dated the 141 h 
November, 1956 

Election Commission, 

| India. 

Fixation of the hours duting 
which the poll shall be taken 


for election to the Council of 
States to be held in pursuance 
of the notification No. 472/8/56 
(1), dated 9th November, 1956. 


S.R.O. 2716, dated the T4lh 
November, 1956, 


I S.R.O. 2717, dated the 14th 
! November, 1956, 


S.R.O. 2718, dated the 14th 
November, 1956. 


Ditto, 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Appointment of an assistant to 
the Returning Officer for 
election to the Council of 
States to be held in pursuance 
of the notification No. 472/9/56 
(1), dated 9th November, 1956, 

Fixation of the hours during which 
the poll shall be taken for elec- 
tion to the Council of States to 
be held in pursuance of the 
notification No. 472/9/56 (i)j 
dated the 9th November, 1956. 

Fixation of the hours during 
which the poll shall be taken 
for election to the Council of 
States to be held in pursuance 
of the notification No. 472/10/ 
56 (1), dated the 9th Novem- 
ber, 1956. 


349 S.R.O. 2719, dated the 
November, 1956. 


16th 


Ministry of Law, 


Amendments made in the Re- 
presentation of the People 
(Conduct of Elections and 
Election Petitions) Rules, 1956, 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 

Gscettev 


PART n — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Cheif Commissioners). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi-2, the 12th November 1950 

8.R.O. 2732. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section XI) of 
Section 13 A of thei Representation of the People Act, 1950, the Election Commis- 
sion, in consultation with the Government of Assam, hereby nominates Shri 
R. R. Khaund, B.L., Additional Secretary to the Government of Assam, Legisla- 
tive Department, as the Chief Electoral Officer, for that State with effect from 
the 1st November, 1958. 

[No. 154/2/56.] 

S.R.O. 2733,— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 13(A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, the Election Com- 
mission, in consultation with the Government of Orissa, hereby nominates Shri 
Uday Nath Rath B A„ B,L„ Ex-officio Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
Orissa, Home (Elections) Department, as the Chief Electoral Officer for that 
State with effect from the 1st November, 1956. 


[No. 154/9/56.] 



3j THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, NOVEMBER U, . W 


Pirn II — SecI 


1947 


S.R.O. 2734. — In exercise' of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act 1950, as adapted by the Adaptation 
of Laws (No. 2) Older, 1956, the Election Commission, in consultation with the 
Chief Commissioner of Tripura, hereby nominates Shri R, N, Shinghal, M.A., 
LL.B., Legal Remembraneer-cwm-Judicial Secretary, Tripura, as the Chief 
Electoral Officer for the Union Territory of Tripura with effect from the 1st 
November, 11)56 


[No, 154/18/56.] 


By order, 

A. KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGARj, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 19 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2735. — In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Police Service (Pay) Rules, 
1954, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in Schedule 
III-C to the said Rules, namely: — 

In the said Schedule, for entries in the second, third and fourth columns 
against "Intelligence Bureau" in the first Column, the following entries shall be 
substituted namely: — 


“Director 

. . 2,500 


Deputy Directors 

. . 1,450—50—1,650 

200 

Joint Deputy Directors 

. . 1,450—50—1,650 

100 

Assistant Directors 

• • Senior Scale 

300 

Central Intelligence Officers 

Senior Scale 

200' 


[No. 13/25/56- AIS (III) .] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi-2, the 16 th November, 1956 

S.R.O. 2736. — In the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No, 13/26/56-AIS 
(III) dated the 31st October, 1956, relating to Bihar, for the entry "Law Reforms 
Commissioner” in sub-para 2 of para 1 thereof read “Land Reforms Commis- 
sioner”. 


[No. 13/26/50-AIS(III).] 
P. PRABHAKAR RAO, Dy. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi-2, the 14th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2737. — -In the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. 10/3/56-IC, dated the 8th Novem- 
ber, 1956, for the entry “Assistant Collector and Magistrate, Alwar" in column 
1 read. “Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Tijara". 


[No. 10/3/56-IC.] 
FATEH SINGH, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 15th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2738. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and, in relation t .0 persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart- 
ment, also by clause (5) of article 148, of the Constitution, the President, after 
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General as regards the persona 



It)48 GAZ CTTE OF INDIA, . 1R 24, ■ IBfl K. 


referred to above, hereby directs that the following further amendments shall 
be made in the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, namely: — 

In the said Rules— 

(1) rule 8 shall be omitted; 

(2) in sub-rule (2) of rule 9, after the words “provisions of’ the words 

and figures “rules 4 and 7, and” shall bei inserted. 

[No. F.7(100)-Est.IV/56.] 
K. S. GANAPATI, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi the 16th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2739.' — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 and in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart- 
ment, also by clause (5) of aiticlei 148 of the Constitution and of all other pow- 
ers hereunto enabling, the President after consultation with the Comptroller and 
Auditor General as regards the persons referred to above, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Fundamental Rules, namely: — 

In rules 45A and 45B of the said Rules, in clause IV(b), — 

(1) in item (i), the word “and” at thei end shall be omitted; 

(2) in item (ii), the word "and” shall be added at the end; and 

(3) the following shall be inserted as item (iii), namely: — 

“(iii) compensation for the charges payable by the Government in res- 
pect of the services provided for the residence”. 

TNo. 8(13)/56.-W.] 
K. SACHIDANANDUM, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

Company Law 

New Delhi, the 14th, November 1956 

S.R.O. 2740. — In exercise of the powers 1 conferred by Section 609 of the Com- 
panies Act 1956 (1) of 1956 and in supersession of notifications appointing Regist- 
rars for the States of Andhra and Hyderabad the Central Government, appoints 
Shri S. Krishna Murthy as Registrar for the State of Andhra Pradesh with effect 
from 1st November, 1956. 

[No. 3(58)-CLA/55.] 

S.R.O. 2741. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 609 of the Com- 
panies Act 1956 (1) of 1956 and in supersession of notifications appointing Regist- 
rars for the States of Punjab. Pepsu and Himachal Pradesh the Central Govern- 
ment of India in file Finance Department (Revenue Division) No. 34-Income-tax, 
Registrar for Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. 

[No. 3(58)-CLA/55.] 
B. SHUKLA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE) 
Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 19th November 1950 

S.R.O. 2742. — The Central Government is pleased to direct that the following 
amendment shall be made in the list appended to the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Finance Department (Revenue Division) No. 34-Income-tax, 
dated the 23rd November, 1946, namely:— 

In the said list — ( 

(i) under the sub-head ‘Scientific and Industrial Research Associations’ 
against item 16, for the words ‘The Council of Economic and Industrial 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 19B0 1949 

Research’ the words ‘National Council of Applied Economic Research’ 
shall be substituted. 

[No. 86(F. No. 27(30)-I.T./56]. 
P. N. DAS GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 

S.K.O. 2743. — In exercise of thei powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend- 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance Depart- 
ment (Central Revenues) No, 33-Customs, dated the 22nd June 1935, namely: — 

In the said notification, in Schedule I — Import Duties— under the head ‘B- 
Government Departments' in the entries in column 2 against serial No. 29, for 
the existing entry numbered (2), the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"(2) (a) Such arms, ammunition and military stores as are dutiable under 
items 34, 80, 80(1), 80(2) and 81 of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 
1934 (32 of 1934). 

(b) The following equipment and stores used by the Defence Services, 
namely: — 

Tools and Gauges which are for use only with ammunition and explosives 
of service use; Ammunition Chemicals; Electric Detonators; Fire 
Directing and Fire Control Instruments, such as Rangefinders, Pre- 
dictors, Plotters, Computors, Sights Dial; Signal equipment including 
wireless equipment and spares, used exclusively by the Defence 
Services; Test equipment for Radars for Service use; Military 
Bridging stores and equipment; ASDIC and ECHO Sounding equip- 
ment; Specialised cameras for Air-force use; and Minesweeping 
Gear”. 

[No. 103.] 

M A. KANGASWAMY, Dy .Secy. 


ORDERS 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 15th November 1950 

8 .R.O. 2744, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central 
Government hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed to be. executed 
by the High Commission for Pakistan in India, in respect of Bungalow No. 
A-2, Nizamuddin West, New Delhi, is chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 24.] 

[No. F,l/14/66-Stamps-Cus.VIL] 

S.R.O. 21745. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of .section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed, dated the 26th Septem- 
ber, 1956, executed by Mr. Leon J. Dcming, assigned to the Technical Co-opera- 
tion Mission, India, as Training Programme Adviser, in respect of the^ ground 
floor flat of No. 107, Sunder Nagar, New Delhi, is chargeable under the" said Act. 

[No. 25.] 
[No. F, 1/10/50-Stamp.] 

New Delhi, the 17th. November 1950 

S.R.O. 2746. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899), the Central 
Government hereby remits the whole of the stamp duty with which the leasa 



1950 


fjjt GA2ETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1958 [Part 'U— Sec. 9 


deed dated the 5th October, 1956, executed by the High Commission for the 
United Kingdom in India, in respect of the first floor premises at No. 14/39. 
Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, is chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 26.] 

[No. F.l/13/56-Stamp-Cus.VIL] 
M PANCHAPPA. Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 17th November 1956 

SJtt.O. 2747.— [ 50/88/ 56-IT].— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (4) of section 5 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1022), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that with effect from 1st November 1956, the 
following further amendments shall be made in its notification No. S.R.O. 1884 — 
No. 57-Income-tax, dated the 20th August 1956, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, for the Heads specified in 
column 1 of the table annexed hereto, the Heads specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 of the said table shall be substituted. 


1. “II-Bihar and orissa." 

2 . “IV-Bombay North’’ 

3 . "VI-Dilhi, Ajmer, Rajasthan & 

Madhyabharat”. 

4 . “VIII-Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal” 

5. a X-Mysore, Travancore-Cochin”, 

6. “Xl-Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, 

Bilaspur, Patiala and East Punjab 
States Union and Jammu and Kashmir 
State”, 

7 . “XH-Uttar Pradesh and Vindhya 

Pradesh” 


Table 

2 

“II-Patna” 
“rV-Ahmedabad”. 

“VI-Delhi”. 
“VIII-Nagpur”. 
f ‘X -Bangalore”. 


Xl-Simla”. 

<c XII-Lucknow”. 

[No. 85.] 

B. V. MUNDKUR, Under Secy. 


Central excises 

New Delhi, the 24 th November 1956 

S.R.O, 2748. — In pursuance of rule 233 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby issues the following supplementary instructions 
which shall be observed for claiming refund of duty on tobacco contents of biris 
exported outside India. 

1. The grant of refund of excise duty on tobacco contents of biris exported out 
of India will be subject to the following conditions. 

2. Who may export , — The exporter must be the manufacturer. 

3. Who can claim refund . — If the expoter himself has a licensed bonded ware- 
house and clears the tobacco for manufacture of biris for export, he can himself 
obtain the refund. If the manufacturer of biris for export obtains tobacco direct 
from another licensee’s warehouse duly cleared under an application in Form 
A.R. 1, he shall obtain from the warehouse licensee, the relative A.R, 1 applica- 
tion under which the tobarco was originally cleared from the warehouse and 
produce it to the Range Officer of the Range in which the factory or principal 
place of business is situated for purposes of cheek. The licensee of the ware- 
house of clearance shall at the same time be required to obtain from his Range 
Officer a certificate in the following form for purposes of record before the rela- 
tive A.R, 1 Is handed over to the manufacturer. 



oPXfctf li- 


lt, $] - TUte OA3!asm r car inwa, .noi 


"Certified that a consignment of packages of biris tobacco weighing 

In all — — — —Lbs. net was cleared from the warehouse L. 5. No. 

Name of the licensee — — of Range under A.R. 1 No. 

— — date and consigned to L2(T) No. of 

Range under T.P. 1 No. — date for the manufacture 

of blris for export”. 

The exporter shall also at the same time produce a letter of authority from the 
warehouse licensee who originally paid the duty, authorising him to receive the 
refund of duty on tobacco contained In the biris. 

4. Manufacture of biris for export,— The biris which are intended to be 
exported under claim of refund of duty on tobacco contents must be manufactured 
from tobacco brought into the factory from the bonded warehouse on A.R. 1. 
Separate A.R. 1 shall be filed for clearance of tobacco for this purpose, endorsed 
with the remark "for manufacture of biris for export”. Tobacco after clearance 
shall be stored In separate premises or portion of premises demarcated from 
those used for storage of tobacco or manufacture of biris for internal consumption, 

6. Segregation of premises for export. — In addition to storing separately all 
tobacco cleared from a warehouse for manufacturing biris meant for export, the 
manufacturer, if he also manufactures biris for internal consumption, must 
demarcate his premises to segregate all storehouses, rooms, sheds, etc., where 
biris intended for export and the tobacco meant for such manufacture are handled 
and otherwise retained. Packing, labelling and storage pending delivery of biris 
for export and such operations In respect of biris for the Internal market must 
be carried out in separate portions of the principal factory. The operation of 
baking export biris must similarly be carried out in separate trays, distinctly 
marked to ensure segregation of such biris from biris intended for the internal 
market, The biris manufactured for the purpose of export should not ordinarily 
be diverted for internal consumption but if due to exceptional circumstances, it 
Is necessary to divert for internal consumption a certain amount of biris manu- 
factured for export, prior approval must be taken from the Assistant Collector 
and necessary particulars about such biris must be shown in the registers main- 
tained by the licensees. 

0. Manufacture by contractors. — Where the manufacture of biris for export is 
conducted through agents, contractors and outworkers, the manufacturer shall 
supply the names and addresses of all such agents, contractors and outworkers 
to the Circle Officer. 

Tobacco for manufacture into biris for export must not be sent to any such 
agent or contractor at any time when he is in possession of tobacco for manu- 
facture into biris for the internal market. 

Transit notes under which tobacco is transferred to agents or contractors for 
manufacture into biris for export must be endorsed "for export biris”. Similar- 
ly, the Invoices or other documents under which the agent or contractor brings 
In the export, biris to the manufacturer must be marked “manufactured for 
export”. 

If any agent or contractor is working for more than one manufacturer, he must 
keep separately all the tobacco obtained for manufacturing biris which are to bo 
exported and separate accounts shall also be maintained of such biris, 

7. Prior declaration of brands and labels. — The manufacturer must make a prior 
declaration to the Circle Officer of the labels under which biris for export are to 
be packed together with the manufacturing formula of the contents of biris relat- 
ing to each separate label. The formula should show the quantity of tobacco 
used for the manufacture of one thousand biris. Cases, packages and cartons 
In which biris are packed for export must be legibly marked for export and must 
also bear a label showing the brand of biris contained In them, Each packet of 
biris must bear a label showing the name of the factory or the distinguishing 
mark which may take the form of a special design whereby the origin of the 
produce can be traced, the number of the manufacturer’s licence in Form L, 2 
and trade brand of the product. These particulars shall also be entered In 
column 14 of Form ‘B’ and column 4 of Form ‘C’ appended to these Instructions. 



f 1 S-OAjtStfYE or INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1038 [Part II— Sic. 




A separate specimen of label shall be assigned to each item of manufacture 
represented by a different serial number in Form ’B’. 

8, Accounts . — The manufacturer shall maintain an account of tobacco cleared 
for manufacture in birls for export and the biris made therefrom, in the appended 
forms A. B, & C. The Range Officer must, at least once in each month, check 
these accounts with (a) the relative application in Form A,R. 1, (b) the stocks 
of raw tobacco and (c) the stocks of biris, and endorse the results of each check 
on the relative account and on the application. 


9. Manufacturer’s private accounts of biris made .— The manufacturer’s private 
accounts of tobacco used and biris manufactured, payments made, etc. shall be 
kept separately in respect of biris for export and for internal market. Such 
accounts, as also transit notes, invoices and other records relating to tobacco 
used and biris made for export, must be open to inspection and check by the 
Central Excise Officers who shall periodically, and in case of doubt, call for these 
records for checking with the accounts kept in Forms A, B and C. 


10. Declaration on export applications . — In addition to the manufacturer’s 
declaration of the manufacturing formula relating to the types of biris packed 
under each label £lven under paragraph 7 above, the exporter must make the 
following declarations in column 4 of the application in Form A.R. 4, separately 
for each size and variety of biris: — 

(1) Label applied to packets [See paragraph (7) above.] 

(li) No. of packets X number of biris per pocket=Total number of biris- 

(iii) Number of biris manufactured from lbs. of tobacco. 

(iv) Total weight of tobacco content. 

The Range Officer shall check these particulars with the relative entries In the 
account in Form C maintained by the manufacturer, which must be produced to 
the Officer 


The manufacturer’s declaration of the manufacturing formula shall be given 


In the following form in the remarks column of A.R. 4: — 

Manufacturer’s formula for 1,000 biris. 

Weight of tobacco contained in 1,000 biris Tolas 

Weight of tendu leaves In 1,000 biris Tolas 

Weight of thread etc. used in 1,000 biris Tolas 

Weight of ring labels, paper for packets, paper for 

making a carton, labels, twine, etc, for 1,000 biris Tolas 

Weight of 1,000 biris in cartons. Tolas/40 lbs. 


Number of cartons in each case or package 
described in column 1 of the A.R, 4 

Total number of bi is in each package, 


Weight of empty case or packing material 

of each case of package Lb a< 


■ml weight including that of each case of 
p '-kage mentioned in column 1 of A.R. 4 


Lb’s. 




. r , 3 j 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER t, IBM 


rH- 


I95J 


11. Examination , — The goods intended for export shall be produced with the 
application in Form A.R. 4 at the exporter’s premises before the officer who shall 
examine externally the entire consignment of each size and variety to satisfy 
himself (with the help of the invoice or specification of contents) that the pack- 
ages are uniform and appear to be according to the declaration in Form A.R. 4. 


12. Redord of examination . — The results of the checks carried out as required 
under paragraphs (9), and (10) above shall be endorsed on the application Form 
A.R. 4 as well as against the relative entry in Form ‘C. 


13. Gran t of refund .'— Before the refund of duty on the tobacco contents of 
biris can oe granted, the tobacco must be clearly identified as the tobacco on 
which dutj has been paid under the documents, particulars of which are declared 
on the application in Form A.R. 4. In any case where such identity cannot be 
established satisfactorily the claim for refund is liable to be refused. 


Refund on export shall not be payable on the tobacco contents of biris, whose 
market value at the time of export is less than the amount of refund claimed. 
The Range Officer shall ascertain the market value of the goods to be exported 
and give a certificate on the application form in A.R. 4 to the effect that the 
market value of the goods to be exported is not less than the amount of refund 
claimed. 

Refund of excise duty on tobacco contained in biris is admissible even in cases 
of export by Air provided the procedure prescribed for export of goods by sea is 
followed. The receipt issued Dj r the Air Company at the Customs Air Port for 
the acceptance of the consignment for export will be accepted in lieu of bill of 
lading or a copy of shipping bill, for establishing the continuous identity of the 
goods exported. The Air Company receipt should contain the export marTEs and' 
Nos. noted in the A.R. 4. 



Form * AfJ: Raw Tobacco Stock Account 








Form r B’: Account of Manufacture Brsis for Export 


Serial 

Nc. 


Manufactured Products — Bms 

Date! SL No. of re la- Qty. reed, for Size & descrip. No. of packages Qty. Tobacco contents (lbs.) Name fit No. and 

tive entry in manufacture tkxi — — address of date of 

Form A (lbs.) Per icco Total agent or invoke 

contractor under which 
by whom received, 
manufactured 




Wastage (lbs.) Balance (lbs.1 

Distinguishing 
label affixed 
to products. 

Remarks 

12 13 

14 

15 


wm ‘k HMwatAON ‘viam jo srjjuizvomi [g Mg— n 




Form C : Export — tan Stock Account 





Received into stock 



S. No. 

Date 

S .No. of relative entry 
in form B 

Distinguishing 
label affixed to 
products 

No. of packages 

Quantity 

Tobacco contents (lbs.) 

per tycoo Total 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 8 



Issued for export 


Balance 


Quantity 

Total tobacco 
contents (lbs.) 

No. and date 
of A.R. 4 

No, of pack- 
ages 

Quantity 

Remarks 

12 

t3 

14 

15 

1 6 

17 


[No. CER-233(l)/56.] 
B. D. DESHMUKH, Secy. 


H 


w 


:j956 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 10*56 [PahT II — Sec. 









. ft M— Sec. 3] : THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEf ,,'U M* 5 ’ i< 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2749. — In exercise of the powers conferred by .the proviso to section 
182 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), the Central Board of Revenue, 
hereby confers on the Auditor of the Cochin Custom House, who is also in charge 
of the Manifest Clearance Department of the said Custom House, the powers 
indicated in clause (a) of the said section in so far as they relate to adjudications 
in resdect of offence No. 17 mentioned in the, first column of the Schedule to 
section 167 of the said Act. 

[No. 102.] 
[No, F.22/3/50-Cus.IV.] 

S.R.O. 2750. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b) and (c) of 
section 11 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the, following further amendments in its Notification No. 176-2/ 
Cus. 25, dated the 11th March 1952, namely: — 

In the said notification 

(1) in paragraph 1(b) for the words “Bengal Nagpur Railway", the words 
■“South Eastern Railway” shall be substituted; 

(2) paragraph 4 shall be omitted and paragraph 5 renumbered as paragraph 4; 

(3) the following shall be, inserted as paragraph 5, namely: — 

“5. for landing and shipping of passenger’s baggage only, the P.Cs. pontoon 
known as Outram Ghat/’ 

[No. 104.] 
[No. F.09(251)-Cus.I-IV/5O.] 

S.R.O. 2751. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b> and (c) of 
section 11 and section 53 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), and in super- 
session of the notification of the Government of Madras in the Marine Department 
G.O. No. 27, dated the 21st January 1916, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
declares that the limits of the Port of Madras shall be as stated in column 2 
of the Schedule hereto annexed. 

The Central Board of Revenue hereby further declares that within the port 
limits mentioned in the said Schedule: — • 

(i) the places mentioned in column 3 thereof shall be deemed to be wharves 

for the shipment and landing of goods, and 

(ii) the places mentioned in column 4 thereof shall be points beyond which 

no vessel arriving shall pass until a manifest has been delivered to 
the pilot, officer of Customs, or other person duly authorised to 
receive the same. 



Name of Limits coder Section n (b) 
port of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 


No. of 
wharf 


Madras to the North \ 

A line running in a direction 
bearing ic 6°48' (true) from a 
point 73' north of the present 
obelisk, which is situated to 
the east of Ghouse Mohideen 
Petta Road and which is 
about 1,72 miles from centre 
of Madras enclosed harbour — 
and extending seawards to 
the 10 fathom line, Indian 
Spring Low Water. 


Madras To the South : 

A line running in a direction 
bearing 106 ”48' (true) from a 
p illar S, and extending sea- 
wards to the 10 fathom line 
Indian Spring Low Water 
the said pillar S standing 
near the north-east comer 
of Napier bridge, by the 
mouth of Coom river, on the 
east side of South Beach 
Road, at a distance of about 
1 . 97 miles from the centre 
of the enclosed harbour. 

Madias To the East : 

A line connecting the eastern 
extremities of the above des- 
cribed north and south boun- 
daries. 


Wharves prescribed trader Section 11 (c) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 

if Name of the Limits of the wharf Particulars of classes of The manner 
: owner goods to be dealt with of dealing 

with than 


Places appointed 
for the delivery 
of Manifests under 
section 53 of 
the Sea Customs Act 


Madras 

Port 

Trust. 


The harbour groynes 
together with the 
eastern sheltering 
arm and every wharf, 
pier, jetty or boat 
basin in the posses- 
sion or occupation 
of the Madras Port 
Trust. 


Madras 

Port 

Trust. 


The portion of the 
foreshore north of the 
harbour which lies 
between the north 
groyne and a line 
drawn due east from 
the Royapuram Rail- 
way Station. 


All goods [including 
explosives landed or 
shipped under the res- 
triction imposed in No- 
tification No. M-1217 
(1) dated the 30th Nov. 
’40 published in the 
Gazette of India Ex- 
traordinary dated 
5-12-1940, and Fort St. 
George Gazette 

dated 7-1-1941.] 


Explosives and such 
other cargo as the 
Collector of Customs 
and the Trustees of 
the Port may jointly 
permit. 


T Jindin g 
& 

Shipping. 


Within the harbur 
limits. 


Landing 

& 

Shipping. 


: 9 a B—n 9961 'fZ HHSK3AON ‘Vlam AQ tt-P-ir . 


To the west : 

(a) Between the south boundary and Kelly’s drain the western limit ; shall be the Iniiaa Low-Spring Water line j 

(b) From the Indian Spring Low water line along and parallel to the Kelly’s drain and io' north of it to a point which is the south extremity of th e 
line described in (c) below ; 

(c) A line 935’ long parallel to the face of the West Quay, the north end of which is 562' 6' Bast of Military zone pillar No, 27 ; 

id) Thence along Southern Railway compound wall on the West edge of Harbour Station Road to a point on the North Beach Road forming th c 

tri-junction of Port Trust, Railway and Corporation land, the said point being 123.833' and 164.125' respectively from the south-east 
and north east comers of the plinth of the Government Stamps and Stationery Office ; ana thence provided always that the lands of the 
Bonded Warehouse and of the Harbour Police Station be excluded along the compound wall and fence west, of Port Trust land and east 
of pavement adjoining the Corporation Road to a point 'f east of the Port Trust boundary pillar 195' from the bearing 12 ■ 25' (true) from 
the north-west comer of the outer wall of the late Clive Battery, - 

it) Thence along the eastern edge of the North Beach Road, the northern edge of North Railway Terminus Road and the eastern edge Mada 
Chnrch East Side Road ; thence along the line separating the Port Trust Land from Corporation and Military land to the north edge of 
Kalmandapam Road ; thence along the aforesaid north edge of Kalmanjapam Road to the east edge of Ghouse Mohideen Petta Road, and 
thence, finally named road to a point 73’ north of the obelisk referred to in the description of the northern boundary above. Provided 
always that between the Port Trust boundary pillar above referred to under (d) and the north side of the North Railway Terminus Road 
and also between the South Side of Tana Street and the north edge of Kalmandapam Road, the Western Boundary of the Port limits shall 
be a line situated to yards above and parallel to the High Water Mark. 


IN0.105.] 

[No F. 69 (25i)/Cus. I-IV50.] 
S. K. BHATTERJEE, Secy. 



i 960 THE GAZETTE <?F INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, lfi36 [Pabt 


MINISTRY OF FOOD 

New Delhi, the 14th November 1950 

S.R.O. 2752/Ess.Com./Siigarcane. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 6 of the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1955, the Central Government, subject 
to any general or special orders which may from time to time be issued by it In 
this behalf, is pleased to direct that the powers under clause 3 of the said Order 
shall also be exercisable by the State Government of Kerala, for the purpose of 
allowing a deduction of Anna one per maund in the minimum price of sugarcane 
fixed under Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture Noti- 
fication No. S.R.O 2386-A/Ess.Com. /Sugarcane dated the 24th October, 1950, for 
the 195(1-37 crushing season to the Pamba River Sugar Factory, Thiruvalla, to 
enable the said factory to function during 1956-57 season, provided the recovery 
of sugar obtained from the cane is less than 8 per cent. 

[No. F. 23-30/36-SV.] 
T. C. PURI, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 
(I.C.A.R.) 

New Delhi, the 8th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2753, — The following amendment to the Indian Central Cotton Com- 
mittee Provident Fund Rules, 1933, which have been made by the Indian Central 
Cotton Committee in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (14 of 1923), and with the previous sanction of the Central 
Government, is hereby published in pursuance of section 17 of the said Act: — 

After rule 16 of the said Rules, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

““16 -A. Payments towards Insurance policies and family pension fund from the 

Fund. 

(1) Subject to the conditions contained in rules 16 to 22 of the Contributory 
Provident Fund Rules of the Government of India, — 

(a) (i) subscriptions to a family pension fund approved in this behalf by 

the Committee, or 

(ii) payments towards an insurance policy — may, at the option of a 
subscriber, be substituted for the whole or part of the subscriptions 
to the Fund; 

(b) the amount of subscriptions with interest thereon standing to the credit 

of a subscriber in the Fund may be withdrawn to meet: — 

(i) payments towards an insurance policy; or 

(ii) purchase of a single payment insurance policy; or 

(iii) payment of a single premium or subscriptions to a family pension 
fund approved in this behalf by the Committee: 

Provided that no amount shall be withdrawn (1) before the details of the 
proposed policy have been submitted to the Committee and have been accepted 
by them as suitable, or (2) to meet any payment or purchase made or effected 
more than twelve months before the withdrawal, or (3) in excess of the amount 
required to meet a premium or subscription actually due for payment within 
six months of the date of withdrawal: 

Provided further that payments towards an educational endowment policy may 
not be substituled for subscriptions to the Fund and that no amounts may be 
withdrawn to meet any payment or purchase in respect of such policy if that 
policy is due for payment in whole or part before the subscriber’s age of normal 
superannuation ; 

(c) any amount withdrawn under clause (b) shall be paid in whole rupees 

only rounded to the nearest rupee (eight annas counting as the next 
higher rupee). 



Part II— Sec. 3] ttrfS GAziTTE 6f lftfllA, NOVEMfiEfi 24, i9§8 


iSX5i 


(2) The Committee may delegate their powers under sub-rule (1) to the Presi- 
dent, the Vice-President or the Secretary of the Committee. 

Note, — The words "Fund”. "Subscriber”, “Accounts Officer” and “Govern- 
ment” or “President*’ wherever they occur in the Contributory Provi- 
dent Fund Rules of the Government of India shall, for the purpose 
of this rule, mean “Fund”, “Servant of the Committee” and the "Com- 
mittee”, respectively, rs defined in the Committee’s Provident Fund 
Rules.” 


[No. F.l-94/65-Com.IL] 

New Delhi , the 9th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2754. — In pursuance of the provisions of clause (d) of section 4 of 
the Indian Coconut Committee Act, 1944 (10 of 1944), the State Government of 
Travanco'e-Cochiri have nominated Shri M. Abdus Salam, I.A.S., Additional 
Development Commissioner, Trivandrum, as a member of the Indian Central 
Coconut Committee for a period upto 31st March, 1958 vice Shri V. V. Joseph 
resigned. 

[No. 7-18/55-Com.I.] 
MOKAND LALL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi-2, the 20th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2755. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
4 and sub-section (1) of section 23 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 
1954 (37 of 1954), the Central Government, after consultation with the Central 
Committee for Food Standards, hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955, the same having been previous- 
ly published as required by sub-section (1) of section 23 of the said Act, namely: — 

In the said Rules;, — 

1. f<w-,sub-ful«— W of rule ^-tne f ollOwlt.^--^ „, 1a ahal] be -substituted, 
namely: — 

"( 6 ) The fees payable in respect of such a certificate shall be Rs. 40 per 
sample of food analysed,.”; 

2 . after rule 12 the following rule shall be inserted, namely:^— __ — 

“12-A, Warranty: Every trader selling an article of food to a vendor ., n H n, 

if the vendor so requires, deliver to the vendor a warranty in 
VI A; 

Provided that no warranty in such form shall be necessary if the label on 
the article of food or the cash memo delivered by the trader to the 
vendor in respect of that article contains a warranty certifying that 
the food contained in the package or container or mentioned m the 
cash memo, is the same in nature, substance and quality as demanded 
by the vendor. 

Explanation. — The term ‘trader’ shall mean an importer, manufacturer, 
wholesale dealer or an authorised agent of such importer, manufac- 
turer or wholesale dealer." 

3. in the table under rule 22, after item 16 relating to “Aerated water” the 
following item shall be inserted, namely: — 


"I 6 . Vanaspati ...... 16 oz.” 

4 . for rule 26, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“26. Natural colouring matter which may be used : — 

The following natural colouring principles, whether isolated from natural 
colours or produced synthetically may be used in or upon any article 
of food: 

(a) Cochineal or Carmine. 

(b) Carotin and Carotenoids. 



i 6$2 THE GAZETTE 6f INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1956 [Part U— sec. o 


(c) Chlorophyll. 

(d) Lactoflavin. 

(e) Caramel. 

(I) Annatto. 

(g) Ratanjot. 

(h) Saffron. 

(i) Curcumin.”; 


6 for rule 28 , the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“ 38 . Coal Tar dyes which may be used: — 

No coal tar dyes or a mixture thereof except the following shall be used 
in food; — 

_%AJir II I 

Colour 

Common name 

Coloure index 

Chomical class 

I. Red. 

Ponceau 4R 

185 

Azo. 


Carmolsine 

179 

Azo. 


Red 6B 

57 

Azo. 


Red FB 

225 

Azo. 


Acid Magenta II 

692 

Triphenylmethane. 


Fast Red E 

182 

Azo. 

3 . Yellow. 

Tartrazine 

640 

Pyrazolone. 


•Sunset Yellow FCF 

... 

Azo. 

3 . Blue:' 

Biue VRS 

672 

Triphenylmethane. 


Indigo Carmine 

1180 

Indigoid. 

4. Black. 

Brilliant Black BN 

j- 

-Bisazo”,- 

>F. D. & C No. 6. 




the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

Use of permitted coal tar dyes prohibited . 

Use of permitted coal tar dyes in or upon any food other than thoso enumerated 
oelow is prohibited: 

(a) Ice-cream including mixed ice-cream, 

(b) Dairy products except milk, dahi, butter, ghee, Chhana, condensed 

milk, cream and baby foods. 

(c) Smoked fish. 

(d) Egg preparations, 

(e) Biscuit, pastry, confectionery and sweets. 

(f) Fruit products. 

(g) Non-alcoholic beverages except tea, cocoa and coffee. 

(h) Custard powder. 

(i) Jelly crystals, 
i Cj) Soup powder. 

(k) Luncheon or Pork Luncheon meat”; 

7 . For rule 30 , the following rule shall be substituted, namely:— 

”30 Maximum limit of permitted colours: 

The maximum limit of any permitted coal tar colours or mixture of 
permitted coal tar colours which may be added to any food shall not 
exceed 1 ■ 5 grains per pound of the final food or beverage for con- 
sumption.” 



Part !l— £}ec. .3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, l&M 


196^ 


8. For rule 32, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“32. Contents of the label: ■' 

Unless otherwise provided in these rules there shall be specified on every 
label: — 

(a) the name, trade name or description of food contained in the package; 

(b) the name and business address of the manufacturer or importer or 

vendor or packer; 

(c) (where any permitted class II preservative and/or colouring agent ia 

added, a statement to the effect that it contains permitted class II 
preservatives and/or permitted colouring agents; 

(d) the net weight or number or measure or volume of contents as the 

circumstances may require except in the case of biscuits, confec- 
tionery and sweets where the weight may be expressed in terms 
of either average net weight and/or minimum net weight; 

(e) a batch number or code number cither in Hindi or English numericals 

or alphabets or in combination. 

Provided that in the case of food package weighing not more than 2 
ounces, particulars including the statement under any clause need 
not be specified: 

Provided further that in the case of — 

(a) aerated water containers; and 

(b) a package containing more than 2 ounces but not more than 4 

ounces of biscuits, confectionery and sweets, 

particulars under clauses (d) and (e) need not be specified. 

Explanation . — The term ‘label’ means a lisplay of written, printed, perforated 
stencilled, embossed or stamped matter upon the container of any food package. 

9. For rule 33, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“33. Languages of the particulars or declaration of the label: 

The particulars of declaration required under- these rules to be specified 
on the label shall be in English or Hindi pi .Deynagri script: 

Provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the use of any other 
language in addition to the language required under this rule”;,. 

10. To rule 37, the following proviso shall be added, namely:— 

“Provided that this rule shall not apply in respect of established trad^or 
fancy names of confectionery, biscuits and sweets, such as Barley 
Sugar, Bulls Eye, Cream Cracker, or in respect of aerated waters 
, such as Ginger Beer or Gold Spot or any other name in existence 
1 in international trade practice. 

11. Rul<l 40 shall be renumbered as sub-iule (1J thereof mid after sub-rule (1) 
as so renumbered the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(2) Any beveragei which does not contain at least ten percentum of fruit 
juice by weight in its composition shall not be described as a fruit 
syrup, fruit juice, squash or cordial or crush and shall be described 
as a synthetic syrup. Every synthetic syrup shall be clearly and 
conspicuously marked on the label as a “SYNTHETIC” product, and 
no container containing such product shall have a label, whether 
attached thereto or printed on the wrapper of such container, or 
otherwise, which may lead the consumer into believing that it is a 
fruit product. Neither the word ‘‘FRUIT” shall be used in describing 
such a product, nor shall it be sold under the cover of a label which 
carries picture of any fruit. 

Aerated water containing no fruit juice or pulp shall not have a label 
which leads the consumer into believing that it is a fruit product”; 

12. In rule 42(A)— 

sub-rules (ii) and (iii) shall be omitted. 

13. In rule 42(B)— 

(i) in sub-rule (i) (f) the word ‘cream’ in the form of declaration shall 
be omitted. 



i9<$4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1956 [f>ART II— Sec. 3 


(ii) In sub-rule (iii) the words ‘or cream milk' occuring after the words 
‘skimmed milk’ shall be omitted. 

14. In rule 43 — 

(i) in sub-rule (2) for the existing form of declaration, the following form 
shall be substituted, namely: — 


DECLARATION 


This (a).' contains an admixture/addition of not more 

than (b) per cent of/international units of (c) 


(ii) after sub-rule (4) the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 
"(6) Nothing contained in this rule shall apply in the case of sweets 
confectionery, biscuits, bakery products, processed fruits, aerated 
water and vegetables.*'; 

16. in rule 44 — 

(i) in sub-rule (a) for the words and figures “40 per cent” the words and 

figures ‘‘23 per cent” shall be substituted; 

(ii) for sub-rule (g) the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(g) any article of food , which contains any artificial sweetner except 
saccharin, or in the preparation of which any such artificial sweet- 
ner has been used.” 

(iii) after sub-rule (h) the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 
“(i) mixture of coffee and any other substance except chicory.” 

18. for rule 47, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

"47 Addition of Saccharin to be mentioned on the label: 

Saccharin may be added to any food if the container of such food is labelled 
with an adhesive declaratory label, which shall be in the form given 
below: 

“This. contains an admixture of saccharin.” 

(name of food) 

17. after rule 48, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“48-A. Sale of permitted food colours: 

(i) No person shall sell coal tar dyes, or their mixtures or any preparation 
of such colours for use in or upon food, except under a licence. 

(11) No person shall sell a permitted coal tar dye for use in or upon food 
unless its container carries a label stating the following particulars: 

(a) the words “Food Colours”, > 

(b) the chemical and the common or commercial name of the dyestuff. 

(iii) No person shall sell a mixture of permitted coal tar dyes for use in 

or upon food unless its container carries a label stating the following 
particulars: 

(a) the words “Food, Colour Mixture”, 

(b) the chemical and the common or commercial name of the dyestuffs 

contained in the mixture. 

(iv) No person shall sell a preparation of permitted coal tar dyes for use 

in or upon food unless its container carries a label stating the 
following particulars: — 

(a) the words “Food Colour Preparation”, 

(b) the name of the various ingredients used in the preparation.”; 

18. the following proviso shall be added to sub-rule (5) of rule 49, namely: — 

"Provided that utensils or containers made of copper or brass which are 
not properly tinned may be used In the preparation of sugar or 
confectionery and mere use of such utensils or containers shall not 
be deemed to render sugar or confectionery unfit for human con- 
sumption.”; 




Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 195® 1965 


19. in rule 50— 

(i) in sub-rule (1), item (g) relating to "waste ghee” shall be omitted 

(ii) in item (k) of sub-rule (1) for the words and brackets "(except the 

fruit products covered under the Fruit Products Order)’* the follow- 
ing shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(except fruit products covered under the Fruit Products Order, 1955, ahd 
vegetable oil products or vanaspati, manufactured, stocked, sold 
or distributed by factories licensed for the purpose)”. 

(iii) sub-rule (6) shall be omitted. 

(iv) in sub-rule (12) after the word “manufacturer” the words and 

brackets "(including ghanl operator)” shall be inserted; 

20. in Form I in Appendix A, for “Magistrate" "Magistrate 1st Class/Presidency 

Magistrate 5 ’ shall be substituted; 

21. in Appendix A, the following Form VTA shall be inserted, namely: — 


“Form VT A”. 
(See rule 12-A) 


Form of Warranty 



From . . 
To 

Date 


Date of 
sale 


Nature of quality Quantity 

of ardclo 

Price 

I 


a 3 

4 



I/We hereby certify that food/foods mentioned in this invoice is/are warranted 
to be the same in nature, substance and quality as that demanded by the vendor. 

Signature of trader/traders. 

22. In para. 2 in Form VII in Appendix A, the word “registered” shall be 

omitted; > ! I 

23. in Appendix B — 

(i) for items A. 03,01, A,04, A,08*03, A. 11. 02, A.11.10 and A.12, the following 
shall be respectively substituted: — 

“A.03.01. Arrow Root means the separated and purified starch from the 
rhizomes of the plants known as Maranta arundinacea or from 
Curcuma a ugustifolia." 

“A.04. Asafoetida or Hing means the Oleo- gum-resin obtained from the 
rhizome and root of Ferula alliacea , Ferula rubricaulis and other 
species of Ferula. It shall contain no sand, gravel or other foreign 
mineral matter, colophony resin, galbonum resin, ammoniaccum 
resin or any other foreign resin. The ash content shall not exceed 
15 per cent of its weight; and the alcoholic extract (with 90 per cent 
alcohol) shall be not less than 25 per cent. 

Compounded Asafoetida or Bandhani Hing is composed of one or more 
varieties of Asafoetida (Irani and/or Pathani Hing) gum arable and 
wheat and/or rice flour. It shall not contain sand, gravel or other 
foreign mineral matter, colophony resin, galbonum resin, ammoniac- 
cum resin or any other foreign resin. The ash content shall not 
exceed 10 per cent of its weight and the alcoholic extract (with 90 
per cent alcohol) shall not be less than 10 per cent. Use of coal tar 
dyes or mineral pigment is prohibited.” 



19^6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, l9t>6 [Part II— Sic. 3 


“A.08.03. Coffee Chicory mixture or Coffee mixed with chicory or Coffee 
and Chicory shall be pure ground coffee mixed with roasted and 
ground chicory and shall be in sound, dry and dust free condition 
with no rancid or obnoxious flavour. 

Any tin or other receptacle containing a mixture of coffee and chicory shall 
not bear any misleading expression. 

The expression “French Coffee” may be used if followed by the words 
"mixed with chicory” or “blended with chicory”.” 

% 

"A.11.02. Skimmed milk, either fresh or reconstituted, means milk from 
which all or most of the milk fat has been removed by mechanical 
or any other process and includes “separated milk” or “machine 
skimmed milk”. The milk solids other than milk fat shall be not 
less than 8- 3 per cent.” 

“A.11.10. Cream means that portion of milk rich in milk fat which has risen 
to the surface of milk on standing and has been removed or which 
has been separated from milk by Centrifugal force. It shall contain 
not less than 23 per cent of milk fat and shall not contain any added 
substance. Thei fat separated from cream shall conform to the 
specification prescribed for ghee”. 

“A.12. Margarine means any article of food which resembles butter in 
consistency, appearance and moisture content. It shall contain at 
least 80 per cent of vegetable oils or of a mixture of vegetable oils 
with hydrogenated vegetable oils and not more than 10 per cent 
moisture. It shall contain not less than 5 per cent of its weight of 
til oil but sufficient to respond to Badouin Test, the red colour 

E roduced being not lighter than 2'0 Red Unit in a 1 cm. cell on a 
iovibond Scale”. 

(ii) in item A.14, for the words “from the leaves and buds of plants” the 
word# "from the leaves, buds and tender stems of plants ’ shall be substituted. 

[No. PFA/F.14-7O/50-P.H] 

N. B CHATTERJI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 14th November 1950 

S.R.O. 2756.— In pursuance of clausei (a) of sub-section (1) of section 213B of 
the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (21 of 1923), the Central Government 
hereby declares that, the Government of thei Bulgarian People’s Republic has 
accepted the Safety Convention as defined in clause (d) of section 213A of the 
said Act, that is to say, the Convention for thei Safety of Life at Sea signed in 
London on. the tenth day of June, nineteen hundred and fortyeight, as amended 
from time to time. 

[No. 40-MA(4)/50.] 
S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 17th November 1956 

S.R.O, 27S7, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 33, 35, 46 and 
47 of the Indian Ports Act, 1608 (15 of 1908) and in supersession of the Ministry 
of Transport notification No. 6-PII(28)/55, dated the 23rd September 1955, the 
Central Government hereby makes the following rules for the Port of Cochin. 



Pabt II+-Sec, 3] THE GA 


24 , 


RULES 

Fees and charges shall be levied at the Port of Cochin in accordance with 
the Schedule annexed hereto which is applicable to the circumstances of the 
case. 

In calculating the: above fees or charges, fractions of less than half an anna 
shall be ignored and fractions of half an anna and above shall be reckoned as 
one anna. 

Applications for refund of fees for charges paid shall not be considered 
unless submitted in writing to the Port Authority within six calendar months 
from the. date of first payment. No refund shall be made unless the amount 
refundable is one rupee or more. 

This notification shall take effect on and from the 30th January 1057. 

Schedule 

Section I — Port Dues. 

Noxk. — A surcharge of 33-1/3% shall be levied on the rate specified in this Section. 


SCHEDULE 


Vessels chargeable 

(Sea-going vessels of 15 tons and upwards) 

Rate of 
Port 
dues 
per ton 

Frequency of 
payment in 
respect“of the 
same vessel 

I. Foreign vessels — 

(a) vessela encaged in trade with the straits 

Settlements 


or Ceylon — 

(0 Ships .... 

. . Two annas 1 

The payment of the 

and three | 

due at the port will 

- 

pieB. 

exempt the ship or 



- steamer for a 

(it) Steamers .... 

. . Do. i 

period of sixty 

1 

days from liabi- 
lity to pay the due 
again. 

(b) Other Vessels — 

(0 Ships .... 

. . Two annas The due is payable on 


and three 

each entry into the 


pics. 

Port. 

(it) Steamers .... 

Do. 


Jh 

jl. Coasting Vessels. 

(i) Ships .... 

. One anna 

The payment of the 


due at the port will 
exempt the ship for 
a period of sixty 
days from liability 
to pay the due 
again. 


(ii) Steamers 

. . . Two annas 

The due ia payable 


and three 

once in thirty days. 


pies. 



explanations — 

In this Schedule — 

(a) “Ship” means a vessel propelled solely by wind power and “Steamer” means any 
vessel other than a snip. 

(fc) “Coasting Ship” and “Coasting Steamer” means respectively, a ship or steamer whict 
at the Port of Cochin discharges cargo exclusively from or takes in cargo exclusively 
for any port on the continent of India or in Burma or in the Island of Ceylon, and 
“Coasting Steamer” includes a coasting steam vessel having a general pass under sec- 
tion 164 of the Indian Sea Customs Act, 1878, 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1086 [PART II-t-Sec. 3 


t9<58 


(c) “Foreign Ship” or “Foreign Steamer" means respectively a ship or steamer not bein 
a coasting ship or coasting steamer ; 

Provided that, for the purpose of the levy of port dues, a vessel shall not be deemed, during 
one and the same voyage, to be both a coasting ship or steamer and a foreign ship or steamer, but 
port dues shall, In respect of such voyage, be leviable on such’vessels either as a coasting or as a 
foreign ship or steamer, whichever rate is the higher. 

Exception — 

i. (t) A vessel entering the port of Cochin in ballast and not carrying passengers shall be 
charged with port due at three-fourth of the rate with which she would otherwise be chargeable ; 
and 

(n) When a vessel enters the port of Cochin, but does not discharge or take in any cargo 
or passengers therein (with the exception of such non-shipment and reshipment as may be 
necessary for purpose of repair) she shall be charged with a port due at half the rate with which 
she would otherwise be chargeable. 


SECTION II 

Fees for Pilotage and other attendant services 


I. Pilotage. 


Scale 

of fee Remarks 

payable 


I. Steamers 

(a) For pilotage inward 


8) For pilotage outward 
c ) For either inward or outward pilotage 
between 6-30 p.m. and 12-00 midnight. 

(d) For either inward or outward pilotage 
between midnight and 6-00 a.m. 
and also for pilotage which commences 
before midnight and extends beyond 
midnight. 

2. Other Vessels 

(a) Vessels in cargo (for pilotage inward or 
outward. 

( j ) Vessels in ballast (for pilotage inward or 
outward) 


Rs. A. P. 

006 Per registered ton subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 30 per 
steamer. 

006 Ditto. 

37 8 o 'l 

75 o o I In addition to the fee payable 
X under (a) or (&). 

J 


020 Per ton. 
010 Ditto. 


Notes, — 1. In the above table, ‘‘steamer” means any vessel other than a vessel propelled solely 
by wind power. 

2. The Administrative Officer Cochin Harbour may, in special cases, remit the whole 
or any portion of the fees leviable in accordance with item (c) and id) above. 

II. For Boats employed for the stern fasts of a 6 12 0 Per Boat, 
steamer. 

HI, Detention charges on Steamers. 

(i) For cancellation of a requisition for the 45 0 0 
services of a pilot with less than one 
hours* notice to the Deputy Conservator. 

(if) For detention of a Pilot by a steamer for 
more than thirty minutes beyond the 
time for which the requisition was made : 

For the first hour or part thereof . 45 o o 

For every subsequent hour or part thereof 25 o 0 



Paht II-4 sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 19B0 


1969 


Notes. — 

1. In cases where a pilot boards a steamer but has to return on being informed that his 

services arc not required “cancellation Charges" specified in sub-item (»') above 
shall be levied. 

2. If a pilot is made to wait for more than 30 minutes after boarding the steamer and is 

informed that his services are not required, “detention charges" specified in sub-item 
(m) shall be levied in addition to capcellation charges specified in sub-item (i) above, 
provided that the Deputy Conservator may, at his discretion, wave the whole or 
part of the “detention charges" so incurred if the pilot is made to wait on board the 
steamer owing to circumstances beyond the control of the Master of the steamer and if 
the pilot certifies to that effect in writing. 


SECTION III— BERTH HIRE 


(Noth. 1 — The charges specified in items I & II in this section shall be subject to a surcha rge 

of 33-1/3%) 


Rates of Berth Hire 


1. Steamers : 

(*) Occupying a wharf berth or a stream berth 

(it) Anchoring with their own gear anywhere in the dred- 
ged area and deep water channels navigated by sea- 
going vessels. 


Rs. 

50 Per steamer per day 
or part of a day. 

5 Per vessel per day or 
part of a day subject 
to a minimum of 
Rs. 20 per vessel. 


II. Sailing Vessel: 

(f) Occupying a wharf berth or a stream berth 

(ft) Occupying a low wharf berth or jetty at Willingdon 
Island. 

(tit) Anchoring with their own gear anywhere in the 

S ;dgcd area and deep water channels navigated by 
-going vessels. 


Notes.— 


30 Per vessel per day or 
part of a dak. 

15 Per vessel per day or 
part of a day. 

J Per vessel per day or 
part of a day 
subject to a mini- 
mum of Rs. 20 per 
vessel. 


1. A day shall be recknoned as 24 hours from the time mooring In a berth or anchoring 
Is completed. 


2. (a) A steamer shifting from a stream berth to a wharf berth or vice versa shall be liable 
to pay the fees chargeable for the original berth calculated for the entire period the 
vcsselis in port. 

(b) A sailing vessel shifting from a low wharf berth to a stream or wharf berth or 
vice versa shall be liable to pay the fees chargeable for the stream of wharf berth as 
the case may be, for the day of shifting. 


Country sailing craft anchoring with rheir own gear in the areas set apart for them by 
the Conservator of the Port shall not be charged any berth hire. 


III. Shifting and Remooring of Vessels : 

(a) For Shifting a steamer to another berth . Rs. 30 per steamer 

(&) For remooring a steamer .... Rs. 20 do. 


Notes.— 

1. When a moored steamer is shifted for the convenience of the Port, no shifting or re- 

mooring fees shall be charged. When a moored steamer is shifted and remoored for 
its own convenience or for the convenience of another steamer, the steamer for whose 
convenience the shifting takes place shall pay the shifting and remooring fees. 

2. When a steamer which has to land or ship goods at the wharf not exceeding 100 . tone 

is shifted from a stream berth to a wharf berth or vice versa, no fees shall be charged 
for stuffing and remooring the steamer on the first occasion but on subsequent 
occasions fees at the rate prescribed above shall be charged. 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


197 ° 


3. These charges are in addition to 'Berth Hire” specified in items I and II above, 

4. Shifting as applied to sailing vessels shall be between the fairway buoy and sailing vessels 

anchorage of Fort Cochin wharf, Beyond these points within the harbour they 
shall proceed only under tow with the permission of the Deputy Conservator, no pilot 
being required. 

SECTION IV 

Fees for the Supply and Use of Cranes at the Wharf 

I. Cranage charges against Importers or Shippers. 

(1) On cargo paying wharfage 

(i) For lifts upto an inclusive of 1 J tons each. Re. 010 0 Per ton or part thereof 

per hoist. 

Cxi) For lifts exceeding ix tons but not exceeding 10 Rs. 640 Per ton or part thcre- 
tons each. of per hoist. 

Provided that cranage charges will not be levied for the operation or landing or shipment if 
incurred by Importers or Shippers. 

(2) On cargo not paying wharfage. 

(i) Cranes of 3 tons capacity or under, during day Rs. 12 8 o Per crane per hour or 

or night-. part thereof. 

(ii) Cranes of over 3 tons, capacity during day or night. Rs. 37 8 0 Per hour or part there- 

of. 

Noth.— In cases where no written notice of cancellation is received before commencement of 
thchirepr where the crane is not utilised to the full exetent specified in the requisition, no refund 
of charges paid shall be allowed. If the Port does not of its own accord Bupply the crane or sup- 
plies It to a ptrtial extent to suit its convenience, charges will be refunded to the extent of non- 
supply, provided the Traffic Manager certifies to that effect in writing in each case. 

II. Chargds against Masters, Owners Or Agents of Vessels for Loading or unloading of Vessels. 

berthed at the wharf frontage. 

(а) Cranes of 3 tons capacity or under during day or Rs. 200 Per hour or part 

night. thereof per crane 

requisitioned by 
each applicant and 
supplied, subject 
to a minimum 
charge of Rs, 8 perd 
crane. 

(б) Cranes over 3 tons capacity during day or night. Rs. 15 o 0 Per hour or par 

thereof per crane. 

Njte charge of Rs. 8 per crane In the case of cranes of 3 tons capacity and under, an 

Rs. 15 per crane in the case of cranes of over 3 tons capacity will be recovered if a requisition 
ii Cancelled in writing before the commencement of the pemd of hire providrd thBl the Traffic 
Manager may at his discretion waive this charge if the notice of cancellation is received before 
accioa has been taken by the Port to comply with the requisition. In cases where no written 
notice of cancellation is received before the commencement of the period of hire or where the 
crane is used only for a portion of the period applied for, charges payable for the full period of 
requisition will be recovered. If the Port is unable to supply the cranes to suit its convenience, 
either for the entire period ofrequisitionorforapartthereof,nochargeB willbc made for the period 
of non-supply, provided the Traffic Manager certifies to that effectln each case. 

III. Hire for other purposes. 

C a) CraneB of 3 tons capacity or under during day or night Rs. 3 12 o Per crane per hon- 
or part thereof, 
subject to a mini- 
mum charge oi 
'Rs. 15 per crane 
from each person 
requisitioning their 
use. 

(Jj) Cranes of over 3 tons capacity during day or night Rs. 37 8 o Per crane for the 

first hour or part 
thereof and Rb. 
12 8 0 for every 
subsequent hour or 
part thereof from 
each person requi- 
sitioning their use 



Part II-)-Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1950 


1971 


Noth.— A charge of Rs. 15 per crane in the case of cranes of 3 tons capacity and under, and 
Rs. 37-8-0 per crane in the case of cranes of over 3 tons capacity will be recovered If a requisition 
is cancelled in writing before the commencement of the period of hire provided that the Traffic 
Manager may at his discretion waive this charge if Lhe notice of cancellation is received before 
action has been taken by the Port to comply with the requisition. In cases where no written notice 
of cancellation is received before the commencement of the period of hire or where the crane is 
used only for a portion of the period applied for, charges for the full period of requisition will 
be levied. If the Port is unable to supply the crane(s) to suit its convenience, either for the entire 
period of requisition or for a part thereof, no charges will be made for the period of non-supply, 
provided the Traffic Manager certifies to that effect in each case. 

IV. Conditions for the supply and use of cranes in general 

1. The working hours for cranes shall be from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and from 1 p.m. to 5p.m 
and from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. and from n p.m. to 3 a.m. Work beyond these hours allowed ew the 
Traffic Manager as a special case will be charged for at the usual rates. 

2. The hire charges will commence from the time the cranes are made available for use. 

3. The Port shall only man and work the cranes. The labour for slinging and unslinging 
the cranes except in the case of hire to Masters, Owners or Agents of vessels for loading and un 
loading of vessels shall be supplied by the users concerned. 

4. Requisitions for cranes shall be made out in dupliate in the prescribed form, signed by the 
hirer concerned showing the number and description of cranes required, from what time, and for 
how long, or for handling how much quantity etc. and delivered to the Wharf Superintendent. 
Applications for work during day must reach the Wharf Superintendent not later than 3 p.m. on the 
previous day and for work during night not later than 2 p.m. on the same day, if it is a working 
day, otherwise not later than 3 p.m. on the previous working day. If requisitions are received after 
the prescribed time, the crane may be supplied only, if available. 

5. When cranes arc required for longer period than requisitioned for, a fresh requisition shall 
be submitted at least one hour before the expiration of the period mentioned in the original requisi- 
tion. 


fi. It lathe responsibility of the hirer to see that loads greater than their marked lifting 
capacities are not put on the cranes. 

7. Under no circumstances whatever shall cranes be employed for the purpose of breaking up 
or removing goods from under the coamings. 


8. The crane shall be used alone and no other lifting gear shall be used in conjunction with 
it on any one lift without prior permission in writing of the Traffic Manager. 

9. Ships Officers must ace that the Port’s cranes work quite clear of ship’s gear and of al’ 
obstruction*. 


10. For purposes oflevy of charges as detailed above, the capacity of a crane shall be determined 
by the capacity of the hook actually used for working the crane as certified by the Wharf Superin- 
tendent, If however, a hook different from the one requisitioned by a party is supplied to suit the 
Port’s convenience, charges applicable to the hook requisitioned shall alone be recovered. 


11. Thelport Bhall not be responsible to the hirer or any person for any loss or damage arising 
directly or indirectly from the use of the cranes during the period of supply of hire. The hirer shall 
indemnify the Port against all loss or damage, except loss or damage due to fair wear and tear. 

12. When cranes are requisitioned for a specified number of hours but are made available not 
continuously but at different times to suit the convenience of the Port, charges will be calculated as 
if the hire was for a continuous period by totalling up the broken periods of work instead of rounding 
of each spell of work separately. 


SECTION V 


Charges for the supply and use of the floating crane “St. George" 

I. Against Masters, Owners, 01 Agents of vessels for loading into or unloading from 1 tassels. 

(a) For landing or shipping at the wharf or of goods 
to or from the wharf, or in the Mattancherry chan- 
nel : 

(i) For lifts not exceeding 10 tons .... Rs. 640 


(ii) For lifts exceeding 10 tons but not exceeding Rs. 12 8 o 
30 tons 


per ton of 20 cwts. or 
part thereof sub- 
ject to a minimum 
of Rs, 62 8 0 
per ton of 20 cwts. 
or part thereof. 



1972 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1056 [Past H— Sec. 3 


Noth. — P rovided that if in any special case the port agrees to handle lifts exceeding 30 
tons, the charges therefor shall be levied at Rs. 18 - 12-0 per ton of 20 cwta. or part 
thereof. 

II. For other purposes. 

(b) For lifts temporarily landed and shipped or shifted Rs. 62 8 o 
during landing and shipping operations, the period 
of use being reckoned from the time the crane is en- 
gaged till its release as recorded in the crane's log. 

(c) For any operation within Port limits other than those Rs. 225 0 o 
under (a) and (b N above the period of hire being re- , 
ckoned from the time the crane is made available till 1 
its release , as recorded in the crane’s log. 

Note : — 

1. No charges shall be levied for the use of the floating crane for handling wharf heavy 

lifta,during the operation of landing or shipping i.e. unloading from pontoon to wharf In 
the case of import cargo and loading from wharf to pontoon in the case of export cargo. 

2. For work at night, or on Sundays and other holidays declared in this behalf by the Ad 

mlnlstrative Officer, any extra charges of Rs. 12-8-0 per hour qr part thereof subject 
to a minimum of Rs. 62-8-0 for work during day or night will be levied. 

3. Extra charges for “work at night or on Sundays and other holidays” shall be levied for 

the whole period the crane is at the disposal of the hirer. 

4. If the crane is kept idle on requisition to suit Port’s convenience and extra charges acrue 

for night, Sunday or holiday work on this account the extra charges shall be waived. 
Each case will be decided on its merits by the Administrative Officer. 

;. For the calculation of the detention period the different periods of detention shall be 
totalled up and charges levied accordingly instead of each period being rounded off 
separately. 

6. If the crane is used beyond Port limits, fee shall be charged at such rates as may be fixed 
■ by the Administrative Officer in each particular case. 

7. For services of the tug engaged for towing the floating crane within Port limits no extra 

charges will be made. 


per hoUrorpart 
thereof. 


per hour or Part 
thereof. 


Conditions of Hire 

X. The Port shall only man and work the crane, the labour required for handling the cargoes 
being supplied by the parties concerned. Labour can be supplied by the Port, if so desired at rates 
to be fixed by the Traffic Manager. 

2. The crane and slings shall be supplied subject to the condition that the Port shall have 
no responsibility for any loss of or damage or injury to life or property which may be directly or 
indirectly due to the falling of the crane or slings at any stage or any act or default of any employee 
of the Port or any other person, and the hirer shall indemnify the Port against claims for all loss 
or damage except loss or damage due to fair wear and tear. 

3. Except whe-c the Traffic Manager in his discretion derides otherwise, the crane shall 
ordinarily be supplied according to priority of requisition. 

4. Requisitions for the use of the crane shall be made in the prescribed form and shall reach 
gh« Traffic Manager during working hours at least 24 hours before the time it is required. 

5. When a requisition for the crane is cancelled the following fees shall be charged, provided 
that no such fees shall be levied if a written notice of cancellation is received by the Traffic Manager 
clear 24 hours before the time from which the crane was requisitioned, 

(i) If a requisition is cancelled in writing, within 24 hours preceding the time from which the 

crane was requisitioned, a fee of Rs. 62-8-0 shall be charged. 

(ii) If a requisition Is cancelled after the time from which the crane was requisitioned, 
a fee of Rs. 12-8-0 per hour or part thereof subject to a minimum of Rs. 62-8-0 shall 
be charged from the time for which the crane was requisitioned till the return of the 
crane to its moorings or the time of receipt of the cancellation whichever is earlier. 

(iii> In the case of a requisition not being cancelled or the crane not being used at all a fee 
of Rs. 12-8-0 per hour or part thereof subject to a minimum of Rs. i25/-shallbe charged 
from the time for which the crane was requisitioned till its return to its piporingsas 
recorded in the crane log. 



Part It— Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1 S 53 


1975 


Notes : — 


(a) In cases where the Port’s convenience is involved the fees prescribed m sub-ruieB (i) 
and (ii) above shall not be charged, provided a certificate to that effect Is issued by the 
Traffic Manager in each case. 


(b) Only the minimum prescribed under rule s(ii) or (ill) above shall be charged in case 
the crane has not left its moorings. 


6. In 
suit its con' 
be made 
Manager 


bases where the Port, for any reason, Is unable to supply the crane as per requisition to 
veniencc cither for the full period of the requisition or for a part thereof, no charges will 
r the period of non-supply provided a certificate to that effect is issued by the Traffic 
each case. 


fo: 




7. When the floating crane is kept idle on requisition for a continuous period of more than 
30 minutes a charge of Rs. 12-8-0 per hour or part thereof will be made for such period of idling. 


8. The normal working hours for the crane shall be during a day from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and 
from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. and during night from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. and from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. Work 
beyond these hoursif allowed by the Traffic Manageras a special case will be charged for at the 
usual rates. Any work done during 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. will be treated as night work. 

9. Lifts shall be placedtln a position clear of all other cargo on the vessel or on shore, as the 
case may be, so that the Jib of the crane can be swung vertically above the lifts. 


10. The port official in cnarge of the crane may refuse to work the crane if, in his opinion 
safe and proper precautions are no. being taken. 

11. Fees for the supply and use of sling shall be charged for separately at the prescribed 

rates. ' 


SECTION VI. 

Hire rates for the use of the port’s dry dock by vessels not belonging to the port. 


The rates shall be : — 

CO for the first day Rs. 950 

(ii) for every succeeding day or part thereof ..... Rs. 200 
Notbs 


1. ‘'Day” shall mean the period from 6 a.m. on one day to 6 a.m. "on the following day. 

2. For docking or undocking on a Sunday or other holiday prescribed in this behalf by the 

Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour, an extra charge of Rs. 50/- per vessel shall 
be levied. 

3 - After 20 days’ use of the dock by any vessel the Mechanical Superintendent, Cochin 

Harbour, may increase the rate of charge. 

4- Applications for the use of the dock must state the period for which it is required. Should 

the period granted be exceeded, the rate of charge may be increased at the discretion 
of the Mechanical Superintendent, Cochin Harbour. 

5 . When the dock is used by two or more vessels at the same time, the hire charges will be 
distributed among all the vessels using the dock In the proportion to be decided by the 
Mechanical Superintendent, whose decision in the matter shall be final. 


Conditions of Hire 

1. ( 1 ) Ordinarily the hours between Which vessels may enter the dock for dry docking shall 
bo from 7-30 a.m. to 12 noon. These times permit of the pumping out of the dock, setting of the 
vessels on the keel blocks and shoring up within daylight hours. 

(ii) The hours between which vessels may leave the dock after floated shall be from II a.m. 
to 4-30 p.m. which permits of the filling of the dock and refloating of the vessels within daylight 
hours. 

(ill) In special cases, however, docking or undocking out of these hours will be permitted 
by arrangement provided that an additional charge of Rs. 50/- per vessclis paid to meet the cost of 
over time for the staff, and provided further that suitable lighting and other arrangements for 
the purpose are made by the hirers at their expense. 



1974 Wk Gazette oE india, November 24 , iose [Tart ii— Sec. 5 


2 . Til: period of a' vessel’s occupation of the dock shall count from the time the dock gales 
are closed after the vessel has entered. The period of occupation ends when the vessel has cleared 
the dock entrance when leaving. 

\ 

3. The rates prescribed include the charges for all shore labour and materials necessary fob 
arranging the keel blocks before occupation for pumping out and flooding the dock, closing and 
opening the gates and for the use of such blocks, shores and staging as are available. The vessel 
shall provide at its own expense all materials Buch as ropeB etc. and labour for shifting blocks 
or shores or for other purposes. Blocks, shores and staging which are cut or destroyed shall be 
hargod for according to the damage done. 

4. Applications for the use of the dock shall be made to the Mechanical Superintendent, 
Cochin Harbour, in the form hereunto annexed. The applicant will be notified by the Mechani- 
cal Superintendent if the vessel can be accepted and if so, on what date and for what period. 

5. After a vessel has been accepted and before it can be placed in the dock, the charges payable- 
should be deposited with the Chief Accountant, Cochin Harbour. 

6. The deposit made in respect of any vessel under condition 5 shall be liable to be forfeited, 
in whole or In part at the discretion of the Mechanical Superintendent in the event of the vessel 
not being ready to be docked or not using the dock, on the day notified under condition 4 for the 
admission of the vessel into the dock. In the event of the vessel being refused admission into the 
dock by reason of its failure to comply with any of the provisions of condition 7 all the expenses 
incurred by the Port in respect of the docking of such vessel Bhall be borne by the vessel. 

7. Prior to the time regulated for the admission of any vessel into the dock, the following arrange- 
ments must be carried out by the hirer on board the vessel in consultation with the Mechanical 
Superintendent : — 

(a) Suitable hawsers and heaving lines should be in readiness on each side, fore and aft, and 
gentline rove for masthead pendants. 

(b) The vessel should be upright and as nearly as possible on an even keel and the bilges 
shall be perfectly dry, fore and aft, and kept so. Allside and stern pons shall be shut. 

(c) The ballast tanks should either be pressed full with their doors properly secured or pum- 

ped quite dry with their doors off ready for inspection if so required by the Mecha- 
nical Superintendent. 

(d) Ail the vessel's water closets and latrines should be thoroughly cleaned and securel 
fastened up before the vessel enters the dock and no use whatever should be made of 
them whilst the vessel is in the dock. If the water closets and latrines are used while 
the vessel is in dock a charge of Rs. 50/- shall be payable for damages caused to the 
dock thereby. 

(c) If so required by the Mechanical Superintendent, the awnings should be furled. 

(f) If so required under the provisions of any regulations relating to plague or other in- 

fectious or contagious diseases, the vessel should be fumigated by the parties before 
being docked. 

(g) No vessel carrying petroleum in bulk as cargo on board shall be allowed to enter the 

Dry Dock until the Master produces a certificate .granted by a competent officer 
appointed by the Government in this behalf under the provisions of the Petrolivm 
Rules 1937, to the effect that such officer has examined the tanks with the aid of a va- 
pour testing instrument and that the vessel is free from dangerous vapour and is in a 
fit state to enter the Dry Dock. 

(h) Vessels other than a vessel carrying petroleum in bulk as cargo on board requiring 
repairs to their fuel tanks on any fitting attached theret o, shall not be allowed t o ent cr 
the Dry Dock unless an officer, duly authorisedin this behalfundcrthc provisions ofthe 
petroleum Rules, 1937, is satisfied that the tanks have been made gas-free and certi- 
fies to that effect in writing. 

(i) The vessel’s crew shall render every assistance when docking and undocking, and if, in 

the opinion of Officer-in-charge of the dock, extra hands are required on board, they 
should be provided at the expense of the hirers. 

()) If, On inspection, the Mechanical Superintendent finds that any of the above arrange- 
ments has not been duly carried out, the vessel may be refused admission into the 
dock. 

8 , If before the expiry of the period for which use of the dock was granted, the Mechanical 
Su oerintendent is satisfied on written application made to him in that behalf that, owing to circum- 
stances unforeseen or beyond control, work which can be done only in the dock cannot be completed 
within the said period, he may allow such extension of time, as may be necessary and reasonable. 



#art II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTfe 6 f INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 19^0 1 97 3 

9. If any vessel does not leave the dock at the expiry of the period for which use of the dock 
was granted under condition 4 or extended under condition 8, whciherlht repairs or oiher works 
on such vessel have or have not been complctcdj the Mechanical Superintendent may, upon givir g 
twenty-four hours’ notice to the hirers, flood the deck and let out or cause to the remored the said 
vessel or admit any other vessel thereto, and any loss or damage sustained by any vessel ly 
reason of such action shall be exclusively borne by the hirers in addition to all the expense s 
incurred by the Port in so removing the vessel including the cost of making ihe vessel 
water-tight. 

io. No person shall boil or heat pitch, tar or other conbustible matter or light a fire near the 
dock excopt at the places which may be provided for the purpose. 

n. The cost of deodorizing and pumping bilge water and water admitted to dilute bilge water 
out of the dock and of all labour employed in removing from the dock, debris, garbage and scrap- 
ings from the ship’s bottom shall be borne by the hirers. 

12. The Port Authority accepts no responsibility whatever for any detention occa sloned to 
vessels making use of the dock. 

13. The Ihirers shall be responsible for any injury, caused by the works or their w r oikmen 10 si y 
person, aninial or thing and shall indentify and hold the Port Authority harmless in respect there- 
of and also In respect of any claim which may be made by any person in the employ of the hirers 
for damage orinjury. The Hirers shall also make good the cost 0 f any damage, repairs or loss to the 
dock, its appurtenances, , Plant, gear, tackle, etc. by the vessel, the works of workmen, arising 
directly or indirectly in the course of the hire. 

APPLICATION FOR THE USE OF THE PORT’S DRY DOCK 
(In Triplicate) 

I. Name and address of the applicant 


2. Name and description of the Vessel 


3. Period for which the use of the dock is From 

required . To 

I/we have read the conditions and the prescribed scale of rates for the dock and agree to be 
bound by all the provisions thereof. 

Before the vessel is undocked I/Wc shall satisfy myself/oursclves that all sea cocks, bilge, 
holes and other apertures, in the vessel’s bottom are securely enclosed. 


Dated (Sd.) ..... 

Endorsement by the Mechanical Superintendent, 

Period for which the use of the dock is granted . From 

To . 


N.B. — -The dates allowed for the use of the dock do not bind the undersigned in any way. All 
that is implied is that he will do his best to give the use of the dock on the dates named or 
as soon afterwards as practicable, consistent with other engagements. 

Dated (Sd) 

( Mechanical Superintendent) 

Signature of the applicant in token of acceptance of the above, with date 

SECTION VII 

Overtime Fees Payable by Vessels Working at the Willingdon Island Wharves. 

Item Period and description of work Charges leviable 

No. 

(i) Work during'recess hours by day including Sundays and 1 Rs. 5/- per staging 
holidays j 

(rt) Night work including work done during recess hours by f- Port-hole or hook (crane 
night per hour or part thereof. J derrick) 



19 i6 THE GAZETTE Off InOIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1056 [Pari It— Sec. 3 


(tit) Work on Sundays and holidays, 

(a) For work during the period 6 a.m. to 12 noon or 12 noon to 

6 p.m. during day or from 6 p.m. to n p.m. or n p.m. to 6 y Rs. 50/- per vessel, 
a.m. during night not exceeding 4 hours, including recess hours. 1 

(b) For work during the period 6 a.m. to 12 noon or between | 

12 noon to 6 p.m. during day or from 6 P.m. to II P.M. or V Rs. too/- per vessel. 
11 P.M. to 6 a.m. during night exceeding 4 hours including J 
recess hours. 

N.B. — The charges mentioned in item (mi) will be in addition to the charges specified in items (1') 
and (ii) above. 

Notts : 


1. (a) Applications in the prescribed form for work at night on working days must reach the 
Wharf Superintendent in writing not later than 2 p.m. the same day. 

(b) Applications for work on Sundays and holidays including work at night on these days mus 

reach the Wharf Superintendent in writing not later than 3 p.m. the previous working 
day. 

(c) Applications In the prescribed form for work during recess hours must reach the Wharf 

Superintendent In writing not later than 2 hours before the time the recess hour work 
is required. 


(d) Working during recess hours will be allowed only in very exceptional circumstances and 
at the sole discretion of the Traffic Manager. 

1 . Any work done between 6 P.M. and 6 a.m. shall be treated as night work and charges shall 
be levied irrespective of the hour at which night work commences, as If it commenced 
from 6 p.m. 

3. The minimum period for which overtime work shall be applied for and charged Bhall 

be four hours per hook in the case of recess or night work on dayB and four hours for 
work on Sundays and Holidays. 

4. (a) Advices in writing cancelling the night work applied for cither wholly or In part must 

reach the Wharf Superintendent by 4-30 p.m. the same day in the case of working days 
and by 4-3oJp.m. the previous working day in the case of night work on Sundays and 
holidays. Otherwise overtime fees for the full night work applied for shall be levied. 

(b) Advices In writing cancelling the work during day on Sundays and holidays applied 

for must reach the Wharf Superintendent by 4-30 p.m. the previous working day. 
Otherwise overtime fees for a period exceeding four hours shall be charged, provided 
that only fees for a period of 4 hours shall be levied if an advice in writing cancelling 
the application is received by the Wharf Superintendent before 12 noon on the day 
for which the work was required. 

(c) Advices in writing cancelling the recess hour work applied for must reach the Wharf 

Superintendent not later than one hour before the time the recess hour work was 
required. 

(d) In cases where the Port’s convenience Is involved, the levy of overtime fees as stipula- 
ted in (a) and (b) above shall not be made provided a certificate to that effect Is issued 
by the Traffic Manager in each case. 

5. For the purpose] of these rules, “holiday” means any day declared to be a holiday In this 

behalf by the A dmini strative. Officer, Cochin Harbour, and “recess hours” means the 
hours between 3 fiM. and 8 a.m. and 12 noon and 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 
10 p.m. and 11 p.m. 

6. When the working of a vessel Is Interrupted or delayed for port’s convenience, fees 

s hall be levied only for the hours actually worked, fractions , of an hour in the total 
being calculated as one hour, subject, however, to the minimum payable under Note 3 
above. 


P*)r f *T' QAagaSEfc^jgPtA, NOVE^gR g4, IWft 1977 

SECTION Vltt 

Overtime Feet for Employees of the Port 

Fees fori the services of. the employees of the Port of Cochin, performed out of office hours 
or during holidays (hereinafter referred to as over-time work) shall be charged at the rate given 
below : — 


; Fees chargeable for w ork performed on 

Grade! of employees — — 

Working days- - antL-Qn holidays pres- On Sundays & closed 
holidays prescribed crlbed by the Con- .holidays from 6 a.m. 
by the Conservator servator of the port to 6 p.m. from 6 p.M. 
of the Port from from 6 A.m. to 9 a.m. to midnight, & from 
6 P.M. to 6 a.m. on and from 11 A.M. to midnight to 6 A.M. 
the next day. 6 p.m. on the next day. 


Employees drawing a pay of 
Rs. 120/- or more per 
mensem but not exceed- 
ing Rs. 200 per mensem. 


Employees drawing a pay P 
of Rs. 55 or more per 
mensem but less than 
Rs. 120/- per mensem. 


Rs. 2-4-0 per hour Rs. 1-8-0 per hour 
subject to a mini- or part thereof, 
mum of Rs. 11-4-0 
it work finishes be- 
fore midnight and of 
Rs. 13-8-0 if work 
finishes after mid- 
night. 

s. 1-2-0 per hour sub- Annas 12 per hour 
ject to a minimum or part thereof, 
of Rs. 5-10-0 if work 
finishes before mid- 
night and of Rs. 

6-12-0 if work finis- 
hes after mid-night. 


Rs. 3/- per hour or 
part thereof subject 
to a minimum of 
Rs. 15/- 


Rs. 1-K-0 per hour 
or part thereof, sub- 
ject to a minimum 
of Rs, 7-8-0. 


Employees drawing a pay Annas 3 per hour Anna s 3 pfr hour Annas 6 pti tiodr or 

bi-iow ft®! ^5- pti. uicn- subject to a mini- — ©i-yaii thereof — -—part' - thereoT 

strn. mum of li-fn i-ff-o. ject to a minhtiQm 

of Ra. 1-8-0. 


1. Closed holidays shall mean for purpose of these rules any holiday declared as such by 
Government. 

2. The rates of fees chargeable shall be determined with reference to the actual pay drawn by 
the employee concerned. 

3. Requisition for overtime work including work between the hours 9 a.m. and 11 A.M. on 
holidays shall be submitted to the department concerned before 4 P.M. on the previous working 
day. If the requisitions do not reach in time, overtime work may be arranged only if practicable 

4. Requisition for overtime work shall be accompanied by the full amount of fees chargeable 
for such work except in the case of work between 9 a.m. and n A.M. on holidays prescribed by the 
Conservator which will be rendered free but the Conservator of the Port may, after obtaining 
guarantee for the payment of such amount, allow such payment to be made within a week of the date 
on which the overtime work was done. 

5. When more than one vessel or merchant applies for overtime work the fees payable for such 
work shall be distributed equally among them, 

6. The fees chargeable for overtime work ahall always be paid by the vessel or merchant 
applying for such work, whether the scrvic.-s requisitioned arc availed of or not. 

SECTION IX 
Miscellaneous Charges 

(1) Fees for the Supply of Fresh Water to Vessels : 

Rs. 3/- per ton subject to a minimum of 

fa) Rs. 20/- per vessel in respect of country craft and vessels registered under the Cochin 
Harbour Craft Rules. 1947, provided that the vessel does not take water alongside 
the Port’s water barges, and 
<h') Rs. 60/- in all other cases. 



19 78 THE GAZETTE 24, 1956 [PahtTE— S zc.3 


2. Fees for salvage of impau and ex pore Oar go within the port. 

(a) WhcTe there is no risk of life io percental valorem plus the authorised 

hire charges for any special plant used. 

(4) Where there is risk of life . .20 percent ad valorem plus the authorised 

hire charges for any special plant used. 

Notes— 

I. In the case of goods liable to damage by water, the fees for salvage shall be recovered 
on the sale value or customs valuation as the case may be. 

2. The decision of the Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour, on whether risk of life was 

incurred in salving the goods or whether the goods were of the category mentioned in 
Note r above shall be final and binding on the parties concerned. 

3. The usual landing and shipping fees shall also be leviable on salved cargo. 

(3) Charges for the Hire of Electric Lights at the Wharf. 

The rates shall be as follows 

(1) Cluster lights with a total maximum of Rs. 9/- per cluster per night or part thereof, 

360 watts supplied for use by ships. 

(2) Electric hand lamps supplied for use in Rs. 2/- per hand lamp of 100 watts, per night 

wagons. or part thereof. 


Note — 

Requisitions for supply of electric lights and lamps should be sent to the Wharf Superin- 
tendent. 

(4) Fees for the hire of Weighing scales and for the issue of certificates of weights for wharf cargo. 


(f) _For hire o/rnTrigWiig Seales . Rs, 2 4 

(it) IWTssui ofieci dfkwts- orrotflrTon- I>.e, 1 o 
nage of goods. 


o per day per scale. 

O per horn j-nrttho***#-*** ir/cjgh- 

ment 01 measurement of the 
consignment (i.e., goods co- 
vered by one application) sub- 
ject to a minimum of Rs. 4/- 
for each certificate. 


Notes- — 


1. The attendant labour shall be supplied by the parties concerned in all cases. 

2. Charges shall be levied in accordance with the above scale when it is necessary for the 

Port to weigh or measure goods e.g,. for the purpose of assessing the amount of 
the landing and shipping fees payable in respect of the goods. 

3. “Day" means the period from 6 A.M. on one day to 6 A.M, on the next day. 

4. No refund of hire charges shall he allowed in case a notice oj cancellation of requisition 

is not sent to the Traffic Manager xn writing so as to reach him at least 2 hours perior 
to the commencement of the period of hire, 

(5) Fees for Measuring and Surveying Vessels 

Fees levialle. 


Tonnage of vessels to he measured and surveyed. Rs. 

Under 50 tons ....... 7 

50 tons or more but under 100 tons ... n 

100 tons or more but under 150 tons ... 15 

150 tons or more but under 200 tons ... 19 

200 tons or more but under 2J0 tons ... 23 

2J0 tons or more but under 3 00 tons ... 27 

300 tons and upwards ...... 30 


1919 


Part II— 1-Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1958 


(6 J Fees for the Transmission of Master's Scriicc Messages by the Wireless Station on Willingdon 
island. 

(1) A fee of seven annas per word shall be levied for the transmission of Master’s Service 
Messages by the Wireless Station on Willingdon Island in the Port of Cochin ; and 

(2) A fee of four annas per word shall be levied for the reception of such messages by the said 
Station. 


(7) Fees for the use of weighbridge. 

Weighment of cargo on tne Port’s 20 ton lorry weigh-bridge . "1 4 annas per ton or 

f part thereof. 


Notes.— 

1. The weigh-bridge shall be used only for weighing lorries or cans with or without loads 

2. This Fee will cover the service of passing the cart or lorry both empty and loaded over 

the weighing platform and giving a certificate of both the tare and the loaded weight 

3. The port will not supply labour for using the weigh-bridge the necessary transport* 

labour etc. being arranged by the parties concerned. 

4. The port shall not be responsible to the hirer or any other person for any loss or damage 

or accidents arising diicctly or indirectly from the use of the weigh-bridge during the 
period of hire. The hirer shall indemnify the Port against all loss or damage except 
loss or damage due to reasonable wear and tear. 

(8) Charges for the use of the Port’s pipelines for pumping bunker oil to ships 

A charge of 12 annas per ton or part thereof shall be levied for tile use of the pumping and 
pipelines facilities provided by the port in respect of oils bunkered to ships. 

The Port shall not be responsible to ihe user or any other persons for any loss or damage or 
accidents arising directly or indirectly from the use of the pumping facilities and the pipelines 
during the period of use. The user shall indemnify the Port against all loss or damage except 
loss or damage due to reasonable wear and tier. 


[No. 6-PII(28)/55.] 


S.K.O. 2758. — The following draft of certain rules for the port of Cochin, 
which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (15 of 1908) and in 

supersession of the Ministry of Transport notification No. 6-PII(28)/55 dated the 
23rd September, 1955 is published as required by sub-section (2) of section 6 
of the said Act for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 24th December, 1056. 

Any objections or suggestions which may' be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before, the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Rules 


(1) Fees and charges shall be levied at the Port of Cochin in accordance 
with any of the sections of the schedule, annexed hereto which is applicable to 
the circumstances of the case. 

(2) In calculating the fees or charges, fraction of less than half an anna shall 
be ignored and fractions of half an anna and above shall be reckoned as one, 
anna, 


(3) Applications for refund of fees or charges paid shall not be considered 
unless submitted in writing to the Port authority within six months from the 
date of first payment; and no refund shall be made unless the amount refund- 
able is one rupee or more. 




I9&0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1959 {Part. H— Sec. 3 


SCHEDULE 
Section I 

Hire of Hand Cranes at the Shallow Wharf 

io-Ton hand crane ...... Rs. 3-12-0 per hour or purl thereof dur- 
ing day or night Buhjecl lo a minimum 
charge of Rs. 7-8-0. 

2-Ton hand crane . Rs. 1-14-0 per crane per hour or part thereof 

during day or night subject to a minimum 
charge of Rs. 3-12-0 per crane. 

Notes. — (») The minimum charge will be recovered if a requisition is cancelled in writing 
before the commencement of the period of litre as specified in the requisition, provided that the 
Traffic Manager, may, at his discretion, waive this charge if the notice of cancelltion is received 
before action has been taken by the Port to comply with the requisition. 

(b) In cases where no written notice of cancellation is received before the commencement of 
the period of hire as specified in the requisition charges payable for the full period of requisition 
subject to the minimum will be levied. 

(Hi) If the crane is used only for a portion of the period applied for, charges payable for 
the full period will be levied. 

(iv) If the port, in order to suit its convenience, does not supply the crane as per requisition 
no charges will be levied provided the 't raffic Manager certifies lo that etlecl in writing. 


Conditions of Hire 

(1) The necessary labour shall be supplied by the hirer. 

(2) The Port shall not he responsible to the hirer or any other person for any Iosb or damage 
arising directly or indirectly from the use of the cranes during the period of hire and tie hue 
shall be liable to indemnify the Port against all loss or damage. 

SECTION II 

Charges for the Hire of Port’s plant and appliances 
Charges for the hire of the Port’s plant and appliances shall be levied as under : — 


Serial Name of craft, plant or appliance Amount 

No. of hire Unit 


Rate 

12 34 


1. Slipway ..... 

2. Pile Driving Pontoon.— 

(f) with boiler in commission 

(«) without boiler or mooring tubulars. 

3. Fender Pontoon . 

4. Diving Plant . 

y. 12 ton stationary Crane at Dry Dock 


Rs. A. P. 


17 

10 

0 

per 24 hours, or 

part thereof. 

116 

0 

0 

per 8 hours or 
during day. 

part thereof 

174 

0 

0 

per 8 hours or 
during night. 

part thereof 

30 

0 

0 

per day or part 1 

thereof. 

45 

0 

0 

per night or part 1 

thereof. 

45 

0 

0 

Per day or part 

thereof. 

67 

8 

0 

Per night or part 

thereof. 

13 

8 

0 

Per day or pare 

thereof. 

20 

4 

0 

Per night or part 

thereof. 

60 

0 

0 

Per day or part 

thereof. 

90 

0 

0 

Per night or part 

thereof. 



f>AKT tt— feEC. 3] TEfE GAZETTE: OS' INDIA, WOVER 3ER $t; 1UB9 ipSr 


I 

2 


3 


4 

6. 

Portable Welding Plant 

30 

8 

0 

.Per 38 hours or part thereof 






during day. 



45 

12 

0 

Per 8 hours or part thereof 





during night. 

7- 

30 -ion weighing clock (or spring balance) . 

7 

8 

0 

Per day or part thereof. 



II 

4 

0 

Per night or part thereof. 

S. 

Anchor Boat . 

22 

8 

0 

Per dav or part thereof. 



33 

12 

0 

Per night or part thereof. 

9- 

Small rowing boats No. t or No. 2 

• 3 

0 

0 

Per day or part thereof. 


4 

8 

0 

Per night or part thereof. 

10. 

Fire Float ...... 

90 

0 

0 

For the first 6 hours or part 





, thereof. 



75 

0 

0 

For the second or any subse- 





quent 6 hours or part thereoft 

II. 

Trailer pump . 

70 

0 

0 

For the firsl 6 hours or par 


60 

0 

0 

thereof. 

For the 2nd and subsequent 







6 hours periods or part there- 
of. 

12. 

Fire tender ...... 

I T 2 

0 

Per running mile. 


NonlS, — (.i") In cases where hire by night is permitted and the period of hire extends over 
day and night, both day and night charges will be collected provided that only night hire will be 
charged if the total period of hire docs not exceed 8 hours. 


(2) In eases where the plant and appliances are hired out for work during day only but are 
allowed to remain during night at the premises and in the custody of the hirer to suit the con- 
venience of the Port, no extra charges for the night will be charged for, provided that the Tra- 
ffic Manager, the Executive Engineer or die Mechanical Superintendent as the case may be cer- 
tifies in writing to the effect that the retention of rite plant at the hicr’s premises during the night 
was considered necessary and safe to do so, and the plant was not used during night. 

Conditions of Hire 

l. For the purpose of these rules. 

fa) “day” means the period from 6 a. m, to 6 p.m. and “night” means the period from 
6 P.M. to 6 A.M. 

(b) “period of hire” means the period from the time the plant is made avaiable to the 
hirer till it is actually returned to the Port. 

2. Serial Nos. 2, 3, 6, 10, 11 and J2 of the above table shall not be hired except with the Port 
crew, and the charges set out in the table include the coBt of the services of the crew and of fuelt 

3. When Port plant and appliances are requisitioned for a specified number of hours but are 
•used not continuously but at different times to suit the convenience of the Port or due to 
circumstances beyond the control of the parties concerned, charges will be calculated as if the hire 
was for a continuous period, by totalling up the broken periods of work, instead of rounding off- 
each spell of work separately, provided a certificate to this effect is produced from the Port’s Tra- 
ffic Manager or the Executive Engineer or the Mechanical Superintendent as the case may be. 

4. The hire charges prescribed in respect of Fire Float under item 10 including tnc services 
-of tire tug towing the Fire Float and the two pumps attached to the Fire Float. Any additional 
pump used shall be charged for extra at the prescribed rate. 

5. If a requisition is cancelled in writing or if the services of the plant or appliances requisi- 
tioned tor use are not utilised, the lowest hire charges payable in respect of the respective items 
-shall be recovered from the patty requisitioning the services of the plant or appliances. The Ad- 
ministrative officer may, however, at Ilia discretion, waive the charges, if the written notice of 
cancellation of requisition is received before action has been taken by die Port to comply with 
the requisition. No charges will be levied if to suit its convenience, the port does not supply 
the plant or appliance at the time requisitioned for. 

6. The Port undertakes no responsibility for any loss of life or property or for any damage to 
person or property, which may be directly or indirectly due to the failure at any stage of such plant 
•or appliances. 




7. Where plant or appliances are worked or used by the hirer or by his servants or Agents, 
the hirer shall be responsible for making good all losses or damages sustained to Port proprerty 
other than those due co lair wear and tear. 

8. Plant and other port appliances may be let out on hire only when they can be spared from' 
their port uses, and normally for use within the limits of the port. 

9. In special cases where the Conservator of the Port permils the use of the plant and app- 
liances outside the limits of the Port, the hire charges shall be -determined in each individual 

case. 


SECTION III 


CHARGES TOR THE HIRE OF PORT’S TUGS AND LAUNCHES 
A. Charge for the hire of Port's tugs 


1. S.T. ‘Cochin’. 

(a) Services rendered to vessels paying berths hire for assisting them to *and from berths 

Free. 

(b) For towing vessels (other than assistance to vessels pay ing berth hire). 


For towing in the inner harbour For tovving in the outer haurboitr 


Rs. 135/- Re. 148/8 per hour or part thereof 

durmg day. 

Rs. 187/8 ..... . Rs. 206/4 per hour or/ part/ thereof 

during night. 


Provided that charges at the rates prescribed for night hire shall be levied for every hour 
or part thereof which extends over both day and night. 

(c) For assisting sea-going vessels in distress, within Port limits. 


Amount of hire 


Unit 


Rs. 975/- ;j Per 6 hours or part thereof 

during day. 

Rs. 1,35 o/- ....... Per 6 hours or part thereof 

during night. 


Provided that charges at tire rates prescribed for night hire shall be levied for evtry period, 
of six hours or part thereof which extends over both day and right, 

(d) For assistance of non-sea-going vessels in distress within Porr limits. 


Amount of hire 


Unit 


Rs. 135 /' Per hour or part thereof during 

day. 

Rs. 187/8 ....... Per hour or part thereof durintr 

night. 


Provided that charges at the rates prescribed for night hire shall be levied for every 
hour or part thereof which extends over both day and night. 

Notf.— T he rates for other services including fire-fighting, salvage and services invohing 
extraordinary risk -will be determined by Government in each individual case on recommendations 
made by the Conservator of the Port. 



'Biccu" 


2. S.T. 


> 'T 1 1 t< 


(a) For assisting sca-going vessels in distress within Port limits. 



Amount of hire 

Unit 


Rs, 

705,- 

Per 6 hours or 
durmg day. 

part thereof 

Rs, 

bisl- 

Per 6 hours or 
during night. 

prart thereof 

Provide, 

i that charges at die rates prescribed for night hire shall be levied for every period 


of six hours or pait thereof which extends over both day and night. 


(6) For hire including hire for assistance to non-sea-going vessels In distress withi n port 
limits. 

Rs. 97/8 Per hour or part thereof durmg 

day. 

Rs. 135/- .... . Per hour or part thereof durmg 

night. 


Provided that charges at the rates prescribed for night hire shall be levied for every hour 
Or part thereof which extends over both day and night. 

3. Tug '‘Ramavarma"lTug "Hussamah” 

Hire including lure tor assistance to non-sea-going vessels in distress within Port limits 

Rs. 21 /- ..... . Per hour or part thereof during 

day. 

Rs 31/S . . Per hour or part thereof during. 

night. 

Provided that charges at the rates prescribed for night hire shall be levied for every hour 
or part thereof which extends over both day and night. 


Condition s fo> the hue of Port's Tugs~~ 

1. In all cases where the Conservator of the Port decides that the tug should be insured for 
the period of hire, the owner or owners or agents of the vessel in distress shall pay the insurance 
premium ml respect of the tug plus twenty per cent, of the said premium. 


eK 


2 In 

done to Poij 
be payable 


ery case the actual cost of replacing any port property lost and repairing any damage 
t property shall, unless the said loss or damage is covered by the aforesaid insurance 
[by the owner or owners or agents of the vessel m distress. 


3. The tugs shall not be hired except with the Port crew, and die charges set out in the table 
include the cost of the services ol the said crew and of fuel. 


4. The Port undertakes no responsibility for anv loss of life or property or for any damage 
to person or property which may be directly or indirectly due to the failure at anv stage of the tugs. 
The hirer shall mdemmfy the Port agamst all loss ot damage except loss or damage due to fair 
wear and tear 


5 “Period of hire’’ means the period commencing from the time the tug leaves her moorings 
or previous duty, whichever is later, to the time she returns to her moorings or attends to subse- 
quent duty whichever is earlier. 

6 “Dav” means the period from 6AM to 6 r M. and “night” means the ‘period from 6 P M. 
to 6 A M. 

7. If the services of the tug are made available not contmously but at different times to suir 
the convenience of die Port or due to circumstances bevond die control of the parties concerned, 
charges will be calculated by totalling up the broken periods of work and treating them as one 
continuous period upto the time the tug finally returns to her moorings or attends to subsequent 
duty. 

8. The tugs may be let out on hire onlv when they can be spared from their port uses and 
at the discrcdon of the Port Authority. 



OA 


: OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1&56 [Pam II— Sec. 3 


1 $ 4 

3 T 1 " — 

B . — Hire of Pori La mthss, insitlintf hire ior assistance to vessels in distress within port limits . — 


Serial Name of Launch Rate per vessel assisted 

No. 


i M.L, “Pilot” 


2 M.L. “Bertha” 
— TVEL. “fZypeOh ’ 

4 M.L. “Gundu” 

5 M.L. “Chitra” 


6 M.L. “Survey” 

7 M.L. “Malabar” 

8 M.L. “Darothea” 

9 M.L, “Leonorc” 

10 M.L. "Vasco” 


. Kb. i 5/- per hour or part thereof during 

day. 

Rb. 22/8/- per hour or part thereof during 
night. 

fRs. 7/8/- per hour or part thereof during 
! day. 

Rs. 11/4/- per hour or part thereof during 
L night. 

Rs. 9 161 - per hour or part thereof during day. 

[ Rs. 14/1/- per hour or part thereof during 
L night. 

. Rs. 5/- per hour or part thereof during day. 
Rs. 7/8- per hour or part thereof during 
night. 


Conditions of Hire 

1. In the above table “day” means the period from 6 a.m. to 6 f.m. and “night” means the 
period from 6 P.M. to 6 A.M. 

2. When a period of hire covers both day and night charges for the hour that extends over 
both day and night shall be levied at the rates prescribed for night. 

3. The launches shall not be hired except with the Port crew, and the charges set out include 
the cost of the services of the said crew and of fuel. 

4. Launches may be let out on hire only when they can be spared from their port uses, and 
at the discretion of the Port Authority. 

5. The Port shall not be responsible to the hirer or any other person for any loss or damage 
arising directly or indirectly from the use of the Port launches during the period of hire. The 
hirer shall indemnify the Port against all loss or damage except loss or damage due to fair wear 

and tear. 

6. “Period of hire” means the period commencing from the time the launcuh leaves her moor- 
ings or previous duty whichever is later, to the time she returns to her mooring or attends sub- 
sequent duty whichever is earlier. 

7. If the services of the launches are made available not continuously but at different times to 
suit the convenience of the Port or due to circumstances beyond the control of the parties con- 
cerned charges will be calculated by totalling up the broken periods of work and treating them as 
one continuous period up to the time the launches finally return to their mooring or attend to 
sub sequent duty. 

SECTION IV 

Rules regarding Transit dues and Transit Accommodation for Imports tranship good 

and Exports 

(N.B. — A Surcharge of 33 1/3 per cent, shall be levied on all the rates mentioned in this 
Section except on the storage charges in item (9) of schedule A in Part I below). 

Part I — Import and Tranship Goods. 

1. (a) Transit dues are chargeable on import goods left in the Port premises after the ex- 
piry of the free storage period at the rates prescribed in the Schedules below subject to a minimum 
charge of two annas on any one consignment i.e., goods covered by a single import application. 

1 (6) Tranship good shall be allowed free storage in the transit accommodation provided 
for the class of goods in question for six days excluding Sundays and Holidays reckon from the 
lasti day of discharge of the wharf, cargo by the vessel from which the goods were landed or from 
the last day of discharge at the wharf in the case of boated cargo, in addition to the days the vessel 
by which the goods are transhiped remains in Port. 





r INDIA, NO VSM9MB 


I 85 


1 . — Sched 


'ule of Transit dues on Imports. 


Classification 


How charged 


i' Goods on which landing fees and wharfage For goods lying un-cleared and in the 
are fixed on weight or measurement Transit shedsor in open space. 

Rs, a. p. 


"(d) Consignments, actually landed, whose 
weight or measurement covers 50 
tons and over. 


"(b) Consignment actually landed, whose 
weight or measurement covers 10 tons 
and over but less than 50 tons 


’(c) Consignments - actually landed," whose 
weight or measurement covers less 
than 10 tons ..... 


(d) Liquids on which the rate of landing and 
shipping feeds is fixed on a gnllonage 
basis ...... 


Per ton per day 1st week 


020 


2nd week . . . .040 

Succeeding period . . ,060 


per ton per day 1st week 
2nd Week 

Succeeding period . 


040 
080 
o 12 o 


Per ton per day 1 st week 
2nd Week 

Succeeding period . 


080 

100 

180 


Per ton (equivalent to 216 gal- As per item 
Ions per day). 1 (a) to (c). 

2nd Week. 

Succeeding period. 


Notes: — 

* 1. For determining the above classification all fractions of a ton exceeding 3/4 ton shall be 

reckoned as one ion. _ 

2. For determining the rates on fractions of tons, the same method as for calculating landing 
and shipping and wharfage will be adopted. 


Classification How Charged For goods lying un 

cleared in the Tran- 
sit sheds or open 
space 


2. Goods on which the rate of landing fees and 
wharfage and shipping is fixed “per each” or by 
number. 


3. Dangerous goods, vie . , matches, sulphur, 

glycerine, pitch, acids other than sulphuric, 
nitric, carbolic, muriatic and hydrocaloric, 
nitrate of potash and other similar alkalies 
landed and stored at the wharf. 

4. Sweepings collected on board 

5. Goods from unknown vessels 

6. Salved goods ...... 

7. Ovcrcarried cargo .... 


Per package per 1st week. — 25 per 
week or part of a cent, of the landing 
week. fees & wharfage. 

2nd week.— 50 per 

cent, of the landing 
fees & wharfage. 

Succeeding weeks, — 

too per cent, of the 
landing fees & whar- 
fage. 

Transit dues at dou- 
ble the rates as per 
item 1 above. 


Transit dues as app- 
licable according to 
above classifications. 

Transit dues up to a 
maximum of two 
months only. 

Transit dues as per 
item 1 above. 

Transit dues will be 
charged at the rate 
applicable to the ori 
ginal consignment. 







1986 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOV] 


i 


2 


8. Packages which have been landed empty or 
partly empty. 


9. Uncleared goods left lying in the Transit 
Sheds or open spaces for over lour months 
pending disposal either by clearance or sale. 


Description of goods 


Transit dues as app- 
licable according to 
the above classifi- 
cations. 

1 ransit dues for four 
months and storage 
charges thereafter at 
the following rates 
upto and including, 
the date of clearance 
or sale. 


Storage charges 


(i) Bags and bales . 

(it) Cases & crates . 
hit) Casks, kegs, drums & jars 
fib) Carriages and motor cars. 
(v) Machinery, unpacked. 

(u») Articles not enumerated 


• - • . Each 

>3 

33 

. Per ton or part thereof 
. Per Cwt. 


Rs. A*-. Pi, 

o o s') 

oofel Per day or 
o o 6 part of 

o 6 o f a day. 

080} 
o o 3J 


B . — Schedule of Transit dues on Tranship goods . — 


Classification 


Dues leviable 


(t) Goods originally manifested at the Port of Ship- 
ment for transhipment at Cochin. 

(ii) Goods not originally manifested for transhipment 
at Cochm but meant lor other ports, landed at 
this Port but resliippcd later, provided the prior 
written permission of the Port’s Traffic Manager 
for reshipment of the goods is obtained before 
landing the said goods. 


| As per item I to III of the Sche- 
dule of Transit Dues on Exports. 


1 


2, Tree storage in the Port’s transit accommodation at the Willingdon Island wharf will be 

allowed on wharf cargo for four days in addition to Sundays and holidays reckoned as follows : 

(a) Cargo landed direct Commencing from the day fol- 

lowing the day of completion 
of discharge of the cargo by the 
vessel concerned. 


(6) Cargo boated to the wharf from ships in Biream . Commencing from the day follow- 

ing the day ot completion of dis- 
charge of the cargo at the wharf. 


(c) Goods short-landed and over-carried to another 

port but brought back to Cochin. 

( d ) Salved goods 


Commencing from the day of 
completion of discharge by the 
vessel bringing the cargo back. 

Commencing from the day follow- 
ing the notification of sal- 
vage by the Receiver of Wreck. 


Noth : — 


In addition to the above free days, the following periods shall be allowed free storage 

(a) Any period during which the Head of the Customs Department at the Port certifies 
that the goods were detained by him for examination under section 32 or for teBta 
under section 194 and 195 of the Sea Customs Act, 1879 (VIII of 1879) other than for 
the ordinary process of appraisement and that the detention was not attributable to- 
any fault or negligence on the part of importers. 



GA 


S OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1988 


I98T 


3J 

(b) Any period during which the Port is unable to trace the package owing to congestion- 
of accommodation wrong sorting or incorrect tallying : 

This period will he reckoned from the day of the receipt of the enquiry for the package 
in the Office of the Wharf Superintendent to the day succeeding that on which the 

E ackage is traced out which fact will be announced by a notice affixed to the notice 
oard in the concerned transit shed. 

(c) I Any period during which goods arc detained by the Health Officer or any other Officer - 
duly authorised m this behalf by the Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour before 
being destroyed. 

3. Goods detained for survey and actually certified to have been surveyed, either by the 
Steamer Agents or the Administrative Officer Cochin Harbour, shall be allowed free storage ac- 
commodation for a period not exceeding twenty one days (in addition to Sundays and holidays) 
from the day lollowing the complete discharge of the wharf cargo by the vessel ; — 

Provided that — 

(a) the application for survey giving full details of the quantity, description, marks and 
numbers of goods to be detained for survey is received by the Traffic Manager within 
the Irec days prescribed in rule 1 above ; 

(b) the actual survey is completed within the twentyone days thus allowed ; and 

(c) such goods are removed on or before the working day following that on which the 
survey was completed. 

Notes : — 

(t) In respect of goods surveyed on the last free day, no transit dues will be levied if such, 
goods are removed on tire next working day succeeding that on which they were surveyed. 

(»'») In the case of salved goods detained for survey, the twentyone days excluding Sundays, 
and holidays shall be calculated from the day following the notification of salvage by the Receiver 
of Wrecks. 

4-A. After the expiry of tire free storage period, import goods are liable to be moved at the 
discretion of the Traffic Manager. In cases where the moving takes place charges at the following, 
rates shall be levied, except in cases specified in Rule 4-lS. 

(1) Within transit sheds of open transit accommodation . , 10 annas per ton. 

(2) From the transit sheds to the open transit accommodation or 

vice versa 10 annas per ton. 

(3) From the Transit sheds or the open transit accommodation 
to other sheds or to the import warehouses or to the open 

storage area Rs, 1/14/- pcr ton , 

4-B. Ih the case of goods which arc charged landing and Shipping Fees on the basis of a 
unit of 54 gallons or “each" removing charges shall be levied as follows : — 


For removals For re- 
covered by movals co- 
items (1) vered by 
& (2) of item (3) of 
Rule 4-A Rule 4-A 
above above 




Rs. 

a. 

p. 

Rs. 

a. 

p. 

I. 

For 54 gallons ....... 

0 

2 

6 

0 


6 

2. 

Motor cars, each ....... 

2 

0 

6 

4 

8 

6 

3 - 

Motor cycles with or without side car, each 

0 

1 2 

6 

2 


6 

4- 

Bycyclcs, each ....... 

0 

5 

0 

0 

10 

0 

5 . 

Rickshaws, each ....... 

0 

7 

6 

0 

15 


6, 

Other carriages, each ...... 

0 

1 2 

6 

2 

0 

6 


5. Transit dues shall not be charged on goods landed in excess of the original manifested 
quantity provided that they are cleared within 30 days including Sundays and holidays from the 
day of submission by the Fort of the out-turn statement of a vessel from which excess landed goods 
are landed. 

6 . In the case of goods ready for despatch by rail within the free period for which requisitions 
for railway wagons have been made during that period, but which are not removed by rail owing 



39 ®* 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, IflSS [PaSV «— i. 


to non-supply of railway wagons and consequently incur transit dues for the second and succeed- 
ing weeks, transit dues for the entire period may be levied at the lowest rate applicable to the 
particular consignment. 

7, Goods shall not be delivered until landing fees, wharfage, transit dues and any other charges, 
leviable under the rules have been paid and the receipt therefor presented to the transit shed 
clerk. 

8. (a) The Port assumes custody of import goods except those on which landing fees are 
not paid, from the time they are landed till the expiry of the free period allowed for storage of 
such goods in the Port’s premises. 

(b) The Port assumes custody of tranship goods except on those on which landing fees are 
not paid for four days excluding Sundays and holidays reckoned from the commencement of the 
free period of storage allowed for such goods. 

PART II— EXPORTS 

X. No goods shall be brought into the Port’s transit accommodation for shipment without 
the previous permission in writing of the Traffic Manager or an officer duly authorised by him 
in this behalf. All goods so brought shall be allowed free storage in the transit accommodation 
provided for the class of goods in question for six days, in addition to Sundays and holidays, 
from the actual day of receipt of the goods in the wharf premises in addition to the days the 
vessel in which shipment is effected remains in Port or in the case of salved goods for six days 
excluding Sundays and holidays from the day on which the goods are actually salved. 

2 (a) No free days shall be allowed on goods brought into the Port premises and removed 
there from without a definite attempt at shipment having been made by the shipper, if such cargo 
is however not removed within 24 hours of the departure of the vessel by which the goods were 
intended for shipment, transit dues shall be levied at the highest rate in the schedule for the 
entire period upto and including the day of removal or shipment by a subsequent vessel. 

( b ) Intended shipments which have been shut out through no fault of the shipper shall, if 
removed from the premises, receive the benefit of the free period as if they were shipped plus 
24 hours in addition to Sundays and holidays after the departure of the vessel which shuts out the 
cargo. If such goods are not removed within the period aforesaid, transit dues at the schedule 
rates shall be levied from the time the goods were placed in the Port premises upto and including 
the day of removal or subsequent shipment. 

( C ) Goods brought into the Port premises for shipment by a vessel and not shipped owing 
to the non-arrival ot the vessel shall be given free storage for six days in addition to Sundays 
and holidays from the actual date of receipt of the goods in the Port premises. Transit dues 
at the schedule rate will be levied thereafter upto and including the day of removal or shipment 
by a subsequent vessel. 

3. After the expiry of free days transit dues shall be levied at the rates prescribed in the fol- 
lowing schedule upon all goods left in the port premises, subject to a minimum charge of two 
annas on any one consignment, i.e., the goods covered by one export application. 

Schedule of transit dues on Exports. 


Classification 


How charged 


* 1 . (a) General cargo - Per ton per day . xst week 


For goods lying in 
the transit sheds 
or in the open 
space 

Rs. a. p. 
010 


(fj) Goods on which the 
rate of shipping fees 
is fixed “ per each 


2nd week 

Succeeding period . 
Per package per week 1st week 
or part of a week. 

2nd week 


For each succeeding 
week. 

II. Salvage goods . Same as under I above. 


020 

040 

25 °G of the shipping 
fees and wharfage. 

50% of the shipping 
fees and wharfage. 

100% of the shipping 
fees and wharfage. 


III. Shut out goods. 


Do. 


*N. B. (t).— For determining the above classification all fractions of a ton exceeding 3/4 
on shall be reckoned as one ton. 



Part II— Sic. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, I960 


1989 - 


(2) For determining the rates on fractions of tons, the same method 69 for calculating land- 
ing and shipping fees and wharfage will be adopted. 

4. Goods placed in spaces which are not intended as spaccB to be occupied by goods in transit 
may be charged at the maximum transit dues imposed and no free time shall be claimable. Such 
goods may be removed by the Traffic Manager or an officer authorised by him in this behalf at 
the expense and risk of the owners or consignees to one of tire spaces rprovided for goods in 
transit. 

5. Thjc Port does not assure any custody of or responsibility for export goods. 1 They re- 
main in the transit accommodation in the custody and at the sole risk and responsibility of the 
cranes or steamer agents as the case may be. 

PART III— GENERAL 


1. After transit dues begin to accrue no allowance shall be made for Sundays and holi-- 

days. 

2. If (it any time the administrative Officer should apprehend a serious congestion in the 
transit sheds or other space allotted for goods in transit to the detriment of the rapid transport 
of goods through the port, he may direct the owners or consignees of any specified goods to re- 
move such goods from the transit accommodation within a given time. Goods not removed 
within that time may be charged, with transit dues not exceeding Rs. 10 per ton per diem until 
their removal and if on the imposition of such charge the goods are not removed, he may cause 
them to be removed from the transit sheds or other spaces at the expense of the owi era and 
may stack them in any open space within the port at the risk of the owners. 

3. The Administrative Officer, Cochin Hatbour, may in special cases, remit the whole or 
any portion of the charges leviable under these rules. 


4. “ Day ” for the purposes of these rules shall mean the period from 12 midnight on one 
day to 12 midnights on the succeeding day. 

5. For the purpose of there rules " holiday ” shall mean any day declared to bo a holiday 
by the Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour. 


SECTION V 


Miscellaneous Charges 
(l) Hire of Trays Tarpaulins and Slings 


Name of plant or appliance 


Trays for tea cases . 

Tarpaulins 

Slings : — 

Capacity ti ions 
„ 3 

„ 10 „ 

20 „ 

„ 30 


Amount of hire ra;e Unit 


Rs. a. p. 

480 Ter tray per day or part thereof. 

180 per tarpaulin per day or part 

thereof. 


240 
480 
900 
15 o o 

22 8 O 


Per sling per day or part thereof. 


Notes 


1. The Port shall not be responsible to the hirer or any other person for any loss or damage 
arising directly or indirectly from the use of the trays, tarpaulin and slings during the period of 
hire. The hirer shall indemnify the Port against all loss or damage except loss or damage due 
to fair wear and tear. 

2. For the purpose of recovery of the fees for hire specified above the expression “ day ’* 
shall mean the period from 6 a.m. on one day to 6 a.m. on the next day. 

3. No refund of hire charges shall be allowed in case a notice of cancellation of requisition 
is not sent to the Traffic Manager in writing so as to reach him at least 2 hours prior to the com- 
mencement of the period of hire. 



1990 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. NOVEMBER 24 , 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(2) Charges for the use of the Lister Auto-Truck. 

I. Charges at the Port of Cochin for the use of the Lister Auto-Truck shall be levied as 
under : — 


Per hour or part thereof ....... Rs. 3-12-0 

2. The Port shall not be responsible to the hirer or any other person for any loss or damage 
arising directly or indirectly fro m the use of the Anto-Truck during the period of hire, and the 
.hirer shall be liable to indemnify the Port against all loss or damage. 

(3) Charges for the me of the Willingdon Island Wharves by Strut!! Craft. 


Description of craft 

Rate per day or 
part thereof 

Per calendar month or part 
thereof if a permit is obtained 
in advance 


Rs. a. p. 

Rs, a. p. 

1. Wallums .... 

030 

3 12 0 

2. Lighters and Barges . 

060 

O 

00 

3. Landing craft tugs and motor 

W 

00 

0 

u> 

0 

0 

0 

launches. 




Provided that craft solely engaged in transporting import or export cargo on which landing 
and shipping fees at the wharf rates are payable or tugs and motor launches touches at the 
wharves for purposes other than loading or unloading shall be exempt from the payment of the 
■said charges. 

Note, — “ Day ” means the period from 6 A.M. on one day to 6 a.M. on the next day. 

(4) Charges for the use of the Port’s Timber Pond. 

1. Charges at the Port of Cochin for the use of the Timber Pond at the Willingdon Island 
Shallow Wharf shall be levied as under 

For storage of timber .... Three pies per log per day or part thereof. 

2. The hirer shall supply the necessary hbour. 

3. The Port shall not be responsible to the hirer or any other person for any loss or damage 
arising directly or indirectly from the use of the timber pond and the hirer shall be liable to in- 
demnify the Port against all loss or damage. 

4. For the purpose of these rules, the expression “ day ” shall mean the period from 6 A.M. 
on one day to 6 A.M. on the next day. 

(5) Charges for Tosoing Sailing Vessels. 

(t) For towing between the Pattimar Anchorage Rs, 60 per each operation. 

No. 1 (near Vimanativu) and outer roads. 

(2) l'or towing between the Pattimar Anchorage No. 1 Rs. 21 per each operation. 

and the Pattimar Anchorage No. II (at the South 

and of Mattanchori Channel). 

(3) For towing between die Pattimar Anchorage No. II Rs, 75 per each operation, 

and the outer roads. 

(4) For towing between the Willingdon Island Wharves Rs, 60 per each operation, 

and outer roads, 

(5) For towing between the Willingdon Island Wharves Rs. 15 per each operation, 

and either the Pattimar Anchorage No. I or the 

Pattimar Anchorage No. II 

Note, —The Port shall not be responsible to the hirer or any other person for any loss or 
damage arising direedy or indirectly from the use of the tug during the period of hire. The 
hirer shall indemnity the Port against all loss or damage except loss or damage due to fair wear 
and tear. 



IPMtr TFHptfc. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1958 


1591 


SECTION VI 

Rates for the use of Storage Space 


I. Warehouses: 

(t) Under permits issued by the Conservator of the Rs. 12-8-0 per 100 sq. ft. or less 
Port of Cochin or any olher Officer authorised by per calendar month or part 
him in this behalf for periods not exceeding one ihereof, 
year. 

<2) Under leases for periods ; 

(a) Exceeding one year but not exceeding three years. Rs. 11-4-0 per 100 sq. ft. o r 

less per calendar month or 

. , pro-rata for part thereof. 

(0) Exceeding three years but not exceeding five years. Rs. XI /- Do. 

II. Sheds Except “ M" Shed at the Low Wharf : 

0 ) Under permits issued by the Conservator of tne Rs. 10/- per 100 sq. fr. or less 
Port of Cochin or any other Officer authorised by per calendar month or part 

him in this behalf for periods not exceeding one thereof, 

year. 

(2) Under leases for periods : 

(a) Exceeding one year but not exceeding three years. Rs. 9 per 100 sq. ft. or less per 

calendar month or pro-rata for 
part thereof. 

(b) Exceeding three years but not exceeding five years. Rs. 8-12-0 per xoo sq. ft. or 

less per calendar month or 
pro-rata for part thereof. 


III. ‘ M' Shed at the Low Wharf. 

Under permits Issued by the Conservator or any other Rs. 12-8-0 per 100 sq. ft. or less 
Officer authorised by him in this behalf for periods per calendar month or part 
not exceeding one year. thereof. 

Notes — 

1. If) in order to suit the convenience of the port, a permit is granted for fractions of a calendar 
month or if the permit is revoyed in the course of a calendar month, rent for the actual period 
ot occupation will be charged on a pro-rate basis. 

2. The rates mentioned in sub-items ( 1 ) and (2) of Items I and II above apply only to the 
storage of wharf import or wlinrf export goods, when goods other than wharf import or wharf 
export goods are stored within the wharf premises in accommodation leased specifically for the 
storage of wit irf urn art or export goods an additional rent at a rate equal to the wharfage rale 
fixed ror the class of goods concerned shall also be levied. The storage of such goods will be 
allowed only in exceptional Cases at the sol; discretion of the Traffic Manager and with his 
prior written permission. No Services will be rendered by the port in respect of such goods. 


SECTION VII 

Rules for the use of covered or open space in the wharp premises at port Cochin 

BELONGING TO THE PORT OF COCHIN 

_ The following rules shall apply to all goods including personal cffecls landed at Or brought 
for shipment 10 the Port’s godowns 3t Fort Cochin. 

2. Goods other thin bag cargo shall be allowed to remain rec of charge for six working 
days and bag cargo for three working Jays in addition to Sundays and holidays reckoned from the 
date of completion of Steamer’s discharge in the case of imports and from the actual day of the 
receipt of the goods in the premises in addition to the d3ys rhe vessel in which shipment is elfccl ed 
remains in port in the case of exports. In calculating the free period, the day of landing and the 
day of clearance 'n reaped of imports and the day of receipt and the day of shipment in the case 
of exports Will also b“ reckoned as free days, 



1992 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1056 [Pakx i 


Note — 


In addition to the above free days, the following periods shall be allowed free storage. — . 

(a) Any period during which the Head of the Customs Department at the Port certifies 

that the goods were detained by him for examination under section 32 or for tests 
under sections 194 and 195 of the Sea Customs Act, 1879 (VIII of 1879) other than 
for the ordinary process of appraisement and that tire detention was not attributable 
to any fault or negligence on the part of importers. 

(b) Any period during which goods are detained by the Hcaldi Officer or any other office* 

duly authorised by the Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour, in this behalf, before 
being destroyed. 

3. (a) No free days shall be allowed on greds brought into ihc Port gc downs at Fort 
Cochin and removed therefrom without a definite attempt at shipment having been made by the 
shipper ; if such cargo is however not rcxnoved within 24 hours of the departure of the vessel 
by which the goods were intended for shipment, rent shall be levied at the highest rate in the 
schedule for the entire period upto and including the day of removal or shipment by a subse- 
quent vessel. 

(b) Intended shipmcnls which have been shut out through no fault of the shipper shall, if 
removed from the godowns receive the benefit of the free period as if they were shipped plus 
24 hours, excluding Sundays and holidays after the departure of the vessel which Bhuts out the 
cargo. If such goods are not removed within the period aforesaid rent at the schedule rates shall 
be levied from the time the goods were placed in the godowns upto and including the day of 
removal or subsequent shipment. 

(c) Goods brought Into the Port godowns at Fort Cochin for shipment by a vessel and not 
shipped owing to the non-arrival of the vessel Bhall be given free storage as per Rule 2 above 
from the actual date of receipt of tire goods in the Port’s godowns. Rent at the schedule rates 
will be levied after the expiry of the free period upto and including the day of removal or ship- 
ment by a subsequent vessel. 

(4) After the above free period, rent will be charged during the first week at the rates given 
In the schedule below. After the first week, twice the rates will be charged during the second 
Week and thrice the rates during the third and succeeding weeks in respect of cargo other than bag 
cargo. For bag cargo rent at thrice the rates in the Schedule will be charged for the second and 
succeeding weeks. 


Schedule 


Description of packages 


Rate per day. 


(1) 

(2) 


( 3 ) 


Bags and Bales- 

Small, not weighing more than 350 lbs. . 

Large, weighing more than 350 lbs. .... 
Cases and Crates — • 

Not exceeding 2 cubic feet ...... 

Over 2 and not exceeding 6 cubic feet 

Over 6 and not exceeding 17 ,> ... 

Over 17 and not exceeding 25 „ 

Over 25 and nor exceeding 50 ,, 

Above ;o cubic feet ...... 

Casks, Kegs, drums and jars — 

If contents ate liquid: 

Not above 30 gallons capacity ..... 
Above 30 gallons and not above 

60 gallons capacity ..... 

Above 60 gallons capacity ..... 

If contents are solid or semi solid such as paints, alizarine, 
cement, chalk, tar, pitch, etc. — 

Not exceeding one foot in height _ . ■ 

Above I and not exceeding 3 feet in height 

Above 3 and not exceeding 4 feet in height 

Above 4 and not exceeding 5 feet in height . 

Above J feet in height ...■■• 


A. P. 


O 2 

o 3 

O I 
O 2 

o 3 
o 6 

0 9 

1 o 


° 3 

0 6 
o 9 


O I 
o 2 
o 3 

° 5 

o 6 



Par* tt — Sifc. Si THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 ( USB I9 g>j 


(4) Metals, of all kinds, Including pipes and lubes, copper yellow 

metal sheets hardware, also loose articles, such as bricks, tiles, 
atones, marble slabs, rattan (in bundles), shovels (in bundles) 
4tc. pet cwt. 

(5) Carriages and motor cats, each ..... 

(6) Machinery unpacked per cwt. ..... 

(.7) Combustibles ........ 

(8) Valuables, viz. bullion, silver lametta thread, Jewellery 
and silver goods ........ 

(9) Timber per ton of 50 cubic feet ..... 

(10) Articles not enumerated, per cwt. ..... 


* Treble the rates quoted for cases, and crates of similar size, 

@ Quadruple the rates shown for cases and crates of similar size. 


a . r. 

o 2 
6 o 

o 3 

A 

@ 

O 5 
o 2 


5. No free period shall however be allowed in respect of goods free of shipping fees. 

6. The lowest charge payable under these rules will be one anna. 

7. The Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour may in special cases, remit the whole 
or any portion of the charges leviable under these rules. 

8. The Port does not assume any custody or a responsibility for goods. They remain on 
port premises in the custody and at the sole Tisk and responsibility of the owners or steamer agents 
as the case may be. 

9. The Port does not undertake to supply any labour for handling goods in and out of the 
warehouses and the parties concerned should supply their own labour. 

10. “ Day ” for the purposes of these rules shall mean the period from 12 midnight on one 
day to 12 midnight on the succeeding day. 

11. “ Holiday ” for the purposes of these rules shall mean any day declared to be holiday 
by the Administrative Officer, Cochin Harbour. 

12. Whenever covered or open storage space at the Fort Cochin Wharf is let out on permit 
by the Port for the storage of import or export cargo paying landing or shipping fees, the follow- 
ing rates of rent shall be levied — 


(1) Covered Storage 

Under permits issued by the Conservator of the Port of Cochin Rs. 12-8-0 per too Sq. ft. or les* 
or any other Officer authorised by him in this behalf, for per calendar month or part 
periods not exceeding one year. thereof. 

(2) Open Space 

Under permits issued by the Conservator of the Port of Cochin Rs. 15 per 1000 sq. ft. or less per 
or any other Officer authorised by him in this behalf, for calendar month or part thereof, 
periods not exceeding one year. 

Notes.— ( n) If, in order to suit the convenience of the Port, a permit is granted for a frac- 
tion of a calendar month or if the permit is revoked in the course of a calendar month, rent for the 
actual period of occupation shall be charged on a pro-rate basis. 

( b ) Storage of goods other than import or export goods paying landing or shipping fees will 
not be permitted wilhin the Fort Cochin wharf premises except wiih the prior written permis- 
sion of the Traffic Manager which will be granted in exceptional cases at his sole discretion and 
on payment of an additional rent at a rate equal to the wharfage fixed for the class of goods 
concerned in the Port’s Scale of RatcB. 

[No. 6-PII(28)/55] 


K. BALiAKRISHNAN, Under Secy. 



1994 


THE' QAZETTE OF DSTpiA, NOVEMBER 24, 1930 [Part TL-&k. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 14th November 1950 

S.R.O. 2159. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraph 
Rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby specifies 16th day of December 1956, 
as the datei on which message rate system will be introduced at Vijayawada Tele- 
phone Exchange. 


[No. PHA 48-1/55.] 

S.R.O. 2760. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraph 
Rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby specifies the 16th day of December 
1950, as the date on which message rate system will be introduced at Salem Tele- 
phone Exchange. 


[No. PHA 105-10/56-PHA.] 


(Posts and Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 13th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2701. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act, 1898, (6 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes the following fur- 
ther amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely: — 

Rule 194- A of the said Rules shall be omitted. 1 


[No. MD. 1-12/56.] 
V. M. BHIDE, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 19 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2762. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 44 of the Air 
Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment to the Air Corporations Rules, 1954, namely: — 

In the proviso to rule 45, after the words ‘Central Government’ for the 
full stop, a comma shall be substituted and after the comma so subs- 
tituted the following shall be added namely: — 

'or on the expiry of thirty days from the date of receipt of intimation’ 
of such resignation, whichever is earlier’. 


[7-CA(8)/50.] 

M, DAYAL, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 12 th November 1956. 

SJl.O. 2763, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act. 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central 
Government in consultation with the Custodian General of Evacuee Property, 
hereby appoint for thei State of Delhi, Shxi P. C. Bhatnagar, Settlement Officer, 
in the Office of the Addl. Regional Settlement Commissioner, Delhi, as Assistant 
Custodian of Evacuee Property for the purpose of performing the duties imposed 
by or under the said Act, with effect from the 1st September, 1950. 

/[No. X VI-21 (51) /56-Prop.II.] 
J. J. KARAM, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 13 th November 1950 

S.R.O. 2764. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act 1954. (44 of 

1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri J. M. Bannerjee an Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 



3] Tl*tt GAZETTE « DIA, NOVEMBER’ 


1995 


officer by or I under the said Act, with effect irom the date he took charge of hla 
post. 


[No, 7/26/50-S.II-Pt.UI.] 

S.R.O. 2765, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1854 (44 of 
1954) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R. P. Singh, Additional 
Settlement Commissioner, Bihar to perform the functions assigned to Settlement 
Commissioner by or under the said Act. 

[No. 5/8/50-SII.] 


New Delhi, the 14 th November I960 

S.R.O. 2766. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of this Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1964 
(44 of 1954U the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Aridalan Singh as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for thei purpose of performing the function* 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his office. 

[No. 5/25/68-SIL] 


New Delhi, the 15 th November 1956 

SJl.O. 2767.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clausei (a) of Sub-Sec- 
tion (2) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilita- 
tion) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Rattan Singh, Settlement Officer, to be Managing Officer for the custody, 
management and disposal of the Compensation Pool from the date he took 
charge of his office. 

[F. 10/2B/56-SII.] 

S.R.O. 2768. — In exercise; of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of the 
Section 0 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950) the 
Central Government hereby appoints for the State of Bihar, Shri K. N. Sinha, 
Deputy Relief Commissioner as ex-offlcio Additional Custodian of Evacuee Pro- 
perty, for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on the Custodian 
by or under the said Act, with effect from the 24th October, 1956. 

[No. XVI-1 (14) /56-Prop, II.] 

S.R.O. 2769. — In Column (5) of Serial No. (3) of the table below this Minis- 
try’s Notification No, XVI-1 (26)/56-Prop. II dated the 31st October, I960, please 
read ‘30th November, 1956’ for ‘10th November, 1956’ occurring therein. 

[No. XVI-1 (20)/56-Prop.II.] 

New Delhi, the 16 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2770. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Sarvottan Diesh an Assis- 
tant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post. 

[No. F.7/26/56-S.II Pt.III.] 


S.R.O. 2771. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (I) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954] , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. B. Lai as Settlement 
Officer for the purpose of performing tne functions assigned to such officer by or 
under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No, 3/16/50-SII.] 


New Delhi , the 17 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2772. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 



1996 ■racft' qAZETTE OF INTOX; NOVEMBER 24, 1966 [pARf ft^wKC 


(No, 44 of 1954), the Central Govt, hereby appoints Shri Kulwant Singh as 
Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such Commissioner by or under the, said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office. 


New Delhi, the 19 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2773. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P. R. Narang an 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post. 

[No. F.7/26/56-SII-PUI.] 
New Delhi, the 24 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2774. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(2) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 
1954 (44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints each of the following 
officers, to be the Managing Officers for the custody, management and disposal ox 
Compensation Pool. 

1. Shri S. S. Joshi, Assistant Custodian of Evacuee Property, 

2. Shri L. S. Vyas, Assistant Custodian of Evacuee Property. 

New Delhi, the 14th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2775. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1050 (XXXI of 1950), the Cen- 
tral Government, in consultation with the Custodian General, hereby appoint, for 
the State of Himachal Pradesh, Shri Kunj Behari Srivastava, Secretary (Judical) 
to the Government of Himachal Pradesh, as Custodian of Evacuee Property, with 
effect from the 26th September 1956, for the purpose of discharging the duties 
imposed by or under the said Act. 

[No. XVI-12 (3) /65-Prop.II.] 
MANMOHAN KISHAN, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner 

New Delhi, the 24 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2776. — In exercise of the: powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
35 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954) 1, Shri Nagendra Bahadur, Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby autho- 
rised Shri G B. K. Hooja, Regional Settlement Commissioner, Indore/Bhopal to 
make a complaint in writing in a court of Law against such person who furnishes 
in his application for payment of compensation or in declaration under chapter X 
of the Displaced persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955 any 
Information which he knows or has reasons to believe to be false or which he 
does not believe to be true. 

[No. F.12(31)Comp.IV/50 (B).J 
NAGENDRA BAHADUR, 
Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 1 6th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2777. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Delhi 
(Control of Building Operations) Act, 1955 (53 of 1955), the Delhi Development 
Provisional Authority, with the previous approval of the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Delhi (Control of Building Opera- 
tions) Regulations published with notification of the Government of India, Minis- 
try of Health No. F.30-8/55-LSG,, dated the 11th November, 1955 namely — 

After Chapter III of the said Regulations the following Chapter IV shall be 
added to the said Regulations. 



Part II— Sat, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1936 


199 ? 


CHAPTER IV 

Conditions op service of officers and servants of the Authority 

7. (1) Classification of posts . — The services or posts under the Authority shall 
lor purposes of control, appointment and discipline be classified as under: — 


Name of category of pos' 


Classification 


(1) Executive Engineers and Assistant Secretary. 

(2) Administrative Officer and Assistant, Engineers. 

(3) Superintendents, Head Assistants, Building 
Inspectors, Sectional Officers (Overseers), 
Kanungo, Upper & Lower Division Clerks and 
other ministerial posts. 

(4) All posts whose pay (if fixed) or maximum 
pay in the prescribed scales does not exceed 
Rs. 60 p.m. 


Class I 
Class II 
Class III 


Class IV 


Provided that the above classification shall not apply to Government servants 
and others on deputation to the Authority who shall retain the classification 
applicable to them under Government or parent organization, 

(2) First appointments. — All first appointments to the services and posts under 
the Authority shall be made by the Authority named in column 2 of the schedule 
to regulation (8), 

(3) Grant of leave. — The Authority competent to make first appointment to 
the services and posts under the Authority shall also be competent to grant leave 
to the members of those services and posts. 

(4) Conditions of services, pay & allowances etc. — All other matters concern- 
ing the terms and conditions of service of officers and servants, whether perma- 
nent or temporary, their pay and allowances or additions to pay, the combination 
of appointments, the, amount of leave, leave salary or acting allowance and the 
payment of travelling allowances, shall be regulated as under: — 

(a) in the case of officers and servants who hold posts under Government 

or other body and are on deputation to the Authority — by the rules 
applicable to them in Government service or in their parent organiza- 
tion, 

(b) ini other cases — by the Central Government rules and orders applicable 

to officers and servants of equivalent status so far as they may be 
applicable. 

(5) Conduct of staff. — The provisions of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) 
Rules, 1955, 'shall apply mutatis mutandis to the services and posts under the 
Authority, all references to Government and Central Government being construed 
as references to the Authority. 

Provided that officers and servants who hold posts under Government or other 
body Shall be governed by the 'rules applicable to them in Government service 
or their parent organization, 

(6) (a) Discipline and penalties. — The appointing authority or any authority 
to which it la subordinate or any other authority empowered in that behalf may 
place an officer or servant of the Authority under suspension — 

(1) where a disciplinary proceeding against him is contemplated or is pend- 
ing or 

<ii) where a case against him in respect of any criminal offence is under 
investigation or trial. 

Provided that where the order of suspension is made by an authority lower 
than the appointing authority, such authority shall forthwith report 
to the appointing authority the circumstances in which the order was 
made. 

(b) An officer or servant of the Authority who is detained in custody, whether 
on a criminal charge or otherwise, for a period exceeding forty-eight hours shall 
fce deemed to have been suspended with effect from the date of detention, #y an 
order of the appointing authority and shall remain under suspension until further 
orders. 


1998 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1956 [Part II — Sec. 3 


(c) Where a penalty of dismissal or removal from service imposed upon an 
officer or servant of the Authority under suspension is, under Regulation (13) 
set aside in appeal or on review and the case is remitted for further enquiry or 
action or with any other directions, the order of his suspension shall be deemed 
to have continued in force on and from the date of the original order of dis- 
missal or removal and shall remain in force until further orders. 

(d) An order of suspension made or deemed to have been made under this, 
rule may at any time be revoked by the Authority which made or is deemed to 
have made the order or by any authority to which that authority is subordinate, 

(7) The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reason and as herein- 
after provided, be imposed upon officers and servants of the Authority namely: — 

(a) Censure. 

(b) Withholding of increments or promotion. 

(c) Reduction to a lower service, grade or post or a lower time scale of 

pay, or to a lower stage in a time scale, 

(d) Recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused 

to the Authority by negligence or breach of orders. 

(e) Removal from the service of the Authority which does not disqualify 

from future employment. 

(f) Dismissal from the service of the Authority which ordinarily dis- 

qualifies from future employment. 

Explanation. — The termination of employment- 

fa) of a person appointed on probation, during or at the end of the period 
of probation, in accordance with the terms of the appointment and 
the rules governing the probationery service; or 

(b) of a temporary servant appointed otherwise than under contract, in 

accordance with rule 5 of the Central Civil Service (Temporary 
Service) Rules, 1949; or 

(c) of a person engaged under a contract, in accordance with the terms of 

his contract, does not amount to removal or dismissal within the 
meaning of this rule. 

( 8 ) Subject to the provision of regulation (9) (c) below and to the condition 
that no officer or servant may be removed or dismissed or reduced in rank by an 
authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed, the authorities speci- 
fied in column 3 of the Schedule to these regulations may impose the penalties 
specified in column 4 of that Schedule upon officers and servants of the Authority 
included in that Schedule. 

(9) (a) No order Imposing a penalty specified in regulation (7) other than 
an order of censure or an order based on facts which have led to his conviction 
in a criminal court, shall be passed against an officer or servant of the Authority 
unless he has been informed in writing of the grounds on which it is proposed to 
take action and has been afforded an adequate opportunity of making any re- 
presentation that he may desire to make and such representation, if any, has been 
taken into consideration before the order is passed: 

Provided that the requirements of this regulation may. for sufficient reasons, 
to be recorded in writing, be waived where there is difficulty in observing exactly 
the requirements of the rule and they can be waived without injustice to the 
person concerned. 

(b) The authority imposing any penalty under these rules shall maintain a 
record showing: — 

( 1 ) the allegations upon which he proceeded against the person punished;. 

(ii) the officer’s representation, if any, and the evidence taken, if any; 

(iii) the finding and the grounds thereof. 

(c) Where the person to be punished has been lent to the Authority the power 
to impose any penalty shah not be deemed to have been delegated to any authority 
specified in the Schedule (and shall not be exercised by any authority) other 
than the lending authority; the Authority shall in a case where it considers that 
any penalty should be imposed, complete the inquiry and make a report to the 
lending authority for such action as that authority may consider necessary. 



life. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, NOVEMBER 24,1938 


1999 


Explanation. — For the purposes of condition (c) the holder of a post home 
for the purposes of recruitment on the cadre of a State service shall 
be deemed to have been lent by the Government of the State concern- 
ed to the Authority, 

(10) Appeals. — Every officer or servant of the Authority shall be entitled to 
appeal ; as hereinafter provided, from an order imposing upon him any of the 
penalties specified in regulation (7), 

(11) An officer or servant of the Authority may appeal against an order of 
suspension to the authority to which the authority which made or is deemed to 
have made the order, is immediately subordinate. 

(12) Members of services included in the Schedule to these regulations may 
appeal from orders passed in exercise of powers conferred by regulation (8) to 
the authorities specified in column 5 of that Schedule, 

Note. — If, owing to the condition mentioned in regulation (8) , the authority 
ordering the removal or dismissal of an officer is higher than the authority 
specified in column 3 of the Schedule, then the officer shall be entitled to appeal 
to the authority immediately superior to the authority imposing the penalty. 

(13) The appellate authority shall consider — 

(a) whether the facts on which the order was based have been established; 

(b) whether the facts established afford sufficient ground for taking action; 

and 

(c) whether the penalty is excessive, adequate or inadequate; 
and after such consideration shall pass such order as it thinks proper. 

(14) Every person preferring an appeal shall do so separately and in his own 
name. 

(15) Every appeal preferred under these regulations shall contain all material 
statements and arguments relied on by the appellant, shall contain no disrespectful 
or improper language, and shall be complete in itself. Every such appeal shall 
be addressled to the authority to whom the appeal is preferred and shall be sub- 
mitted through the usual official channel. 

(16) Ail appeal may be withheld by an authority not lower than the authority 
from whose order it is preferred, — if 

(a) it is an appeal in which under these regulations no appeal lies, or 

(b) it does not comply with the provisions of regulation (15); or 

(c) It is not preferred within six months after the date on which the 

appellant was informed of the order appealed against, and no 
reasonable cause is shown for the delay; or 

(d) it is a repetition of a previous appeal and is made to the same appel- 

late authority by which such appeal has been decided, and no new 
facts or circumstances are adduced which afford grounds for a 
reconsideration of the case; 

Provided that in every case in which an appeal is withheld the appellant 
shall be informed of the fact and the reasons for it; 

Provided also that an appeal withheld on account only of failure to comply 
with the provisions of regulation (15) may be resubmitted at any time within 
one month of the date on which the appellant has been informed of the with- 
holding of the appeal, and if resubmitted in a form which complies with those 
provisions, shall not be withheld. 

(17) No appeal shall lie against the withholding of an appeal by a competent 
authority. 




2000 


'THE GAZETTE or INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 19B6 [Part H— Sgc. 3 


Schedule 


Authority empowered to impose 
penalties and penalties which 
it may impose 

Title of Authority . — Appellate 

Service of empowered Authority 

post to appoint Authority Penalties (see regulation (7)(a) 

Censure (i>) Withholding 
of increments.- etc. (c) 

Reduction to a lower 
service etc. ( d ) Recovery 
from pay etc. («) Removal 
etc. (/) Dismissal 


i 


2 3 


4 


5 


Class I 
Poets. 

Central Central Govt. 

Govt. 

All 

Central Govt. 

Class II 

D.D.P.A. Member-Sccy., 

Censure and withholding of 

D.D.P.A. 

posts. 

D.D.P.A. 

increments or promotion, 



D.D.P.A. 

Rest 

Central Govt. 

Class III 

Member- Asstt. Secy., 

All except (a) reduction to a 

Memb er-Secy. 

posts. 

Secy., D.D.P.A. 

D.D.P.A. 

lower service, grade or post, 
or a lower time scale of pay, 
or to a lower stage in a time 
scale ; (b) Removal ; and (c) 
Dismissal. 

D.D. P.A. 


Member- 

Secy., 

D.D.P.A, 

Reduction to a lower service, 
grade or post, or a lower 
time scale of pay, or to a 
lower Btage in a time scale ; 
removal; or dismissal. 

Chairman, D.D.P.A 

Class IV 

Member- Assn. Secy,, 

All 

Member-Sccy., 

Posts. 

Secy., D.D.P.A. 

D.D.P.A. 


D.D.P.A. 


[No. F. 1(5) /56-Admn.] 
G. MUKH ARJ I,— »Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 20th November 195® 

S.R.O. 2778. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) (iv) of 
section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, the same having been previously published as 
required by sub-section (1) of the said section, namely: — 

(1) In the said Rules: — After rule 7 the following rule shall be inserted, 
namely: — 

"7A. Power to invite persona to attend meetings . — The Advisory Committee 
or its Chairman, may at any time and for such meeting or meetings 
as is considered necessary invite any person or persons to attend the 
meeting of the Committee, A member so invited shall exercise all 
the powers of a member under these rules except that he shall not 
be entitled to vote on any question coming before the committee.”; 

(2) in rule 9, after the words and figure “co-opted under rule 7”, the words, 
figure and letter "or invited to attend a meeting of the Advisory Committee under 
rule 7A” shall be Inserted. 


[No. CLFR/AM/(MI-3(4)/B6).] 


Part I 

E — Sue. 3] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 34, 1956 

200). 

— — — -- 


S.R.O, 2779. — The following draft of certain amendments to the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), is published as required by sub-section (1) 
of the said section, for the information of ail persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 8th December, 1956. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in respect 
of the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendment 

In the said Rules — 

(1) in rule 12, 

(a) in clause (c), the word “or” at the end shall be omitted; 

(b) after clause (d), the following word and clause shall be added, 

namely: — 

"or (e) if he ceases to represent the interests to represent which he was 
nominated." 

42) in rule 21, 

(a) in proviso (ii) to sub-rule (1) and in sub-rule (2), for the words and 
figures, "Rs. 20,000 non-recurring and Its. 2,600 per annum 
recurring”, the words and figures “Rs. 50,000 non-recurring and 
Rs, 6,000 per annum recurring” shall be substituted; 

<b) in sub-rule (3), for the words and figures “Rs. 10,000 non-recurring 
and Rs. 1,000 per annum recurring”, the words and figures “Rs. 20,000 
non-recurring and Rs. 2,500 per annum recurring” shall be substi- 
tuted, 


[No, CMLWF. Am/MI-41 (78)56,] 
P. D, COMMAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1958 

S.R.O. 2780. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employees 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the Wittkop factory of Messrs. 
Sen and Raleigh at Canal South Road, Calcutta 15, have, agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) should be made 
applicable to such factory. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
section 1, of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factory. 

[No. PF.57(ll)/58.] 


ERRATA 

New Delhi, the 17 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2781. — The following errata to the notifications of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour No. SRO-2634 and 2036 dated the 8th November 
1986 published at pages 2383-2406 and 2407 respectively of Part II, Section 3 of 
the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 8th November 1986, is published 
for general information: — 

Sro -2634: 

(1) Clause 4(7) ( f ) (in). 

In the first line, for “if, in th opinion of th Cntral Government” read “if, 
in the opinion of the Central Government”. 

(2) Clauses 18(2) (ii) (b), (c), and (d) and 18(4): 

For “Tally clerks” or “Tally clerk” wherever they occur, read “Tally and 
sorting clerks” or "Tally and sorting clerk” as the case may be. 


<*2002 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24' 1656 [Part II— Sec. * 


(3) Clause 30(1) (ii): 

In the first line, for “maxdoors" read “mazdoors”. 

(4) Clause 37(1): 

In the first line, for “Each” read “every”. 

(5) Clause 55(1): 

In the second line, for “repeated” read “repealed”. 

(6) Schedule II: I 

(i) In the last entry of the first column on page 2405, for “rhe” occurring: 

after “Average employment for” read “the”. 

(ii) In second line from top on page 2406, for “(,)” occurring after “II 

months”, read “(.)”. 

8,11.0.-2635: 

Members representing the dock workers. 

Shri P. W. Khandekar, shown as a representative of the Bombay Stevedores' 
and Dock Labourers’ Union, should be treated as a representative 
of the Transport and Dock Workers’ Union. 

[No. DC-141], 

R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 16 th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2782. — In the Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Order No. 
SRO 1616 dated the 6th July, 1956, published at pages 1217-1219 of Part II, Sec- 
tion 3, of the Gazette of India dated the 14th July, 1956, the name of “Messrs. 
Binny & Co. Ltd,” appearing in Schedule II, shall be deleted. 


[No. LR-3(16)/60.J 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 13 th November I960 

S.R.O. 2783. — It is hereby notified for general information that the following 
members of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 
retired under sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules. 
1951, with effect from 1st October, 1956: — 

1. Shri B. R. Dhurandhar. 

2. Shri G. L, Chandavarkar. 

3. Munshi M. M. Khan. 

4. Rev. H. O. Maacarenhas. 

8. Shri P. O. Upadhyaya, 

0. Major General M. G. Bhandarf. 

7. Shrimati Gull H. Kirpalani. 


[No. 14/2/56-FC.J 


New Delhi, the 14th November 1950 

8JI.O. 2784. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
6 of the Cinematograph Act . 1952 JXXXVII of 19^), the Central Government 
hereby direct that the fihn entitled “Who’s Guilty?” produced by Messrs. Columbia 
Pictures Inc. U.S.A. shall be deemed to be uncertified film in the whole of India. 


[8/19/50-FCJ. 




Paht 


200 ? 


Ill -Sec. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1956 


New Delhi-2, the 17 th November, 1956. 


S.R.O. 2785. — In exercisei of the powers conferred by section 8 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1962), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendments in the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 
1951 namely: 


(1) After rule 12 of the said rules, the following rule 
namely: 


shall be inserted. 


*12 A. Assessment of public reactions to films: With a view to determin- 
ing the principles to be observed in certifying films, the Board may 
arrange to asses public reactions to films. 


(2) For rule 33 of the said rules, the following rule shall be substituted, 
namely: 


"33. Power of entry. — The Chairman or any member of the Board or an 
Advisory Panel or a Regional or an Assistant Regional Officer or 
any other officer or member of the staff of the Board authorised In 
writting by the Chairman in this behlaf may enter any place 
licensed under the law in force relating to cinemas, in the discharge 
of his duties under the Cinematograph Act, 1962 or these rules.’’ 

[No. 5i/5/56-FC-C.C.R. Am/18.] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi-2, the 13 th November, 1956 


Sjjt.O. 2786. — The Central Government hereby: 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting S.R.O. 
No. 3806 dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification of Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad- 
casting No. S.R.O. 2371 dated the 15th October, 1960 that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay shall consist 
of 36 members with effect from 21st October, 1968. 


(b) notified for general information that Shri P. V. Gadgil a member of 
the advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 
retired under sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Cen- 
sorship) Rules, 1951 with effect from 21st October, 1956. 


[No. 14/2/56-FC.]) 


New Delhi-2, the 15 th November 1956 


S.R.O. 2787.— In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the pro- 
visions of each of the enactments specified In the First Schedule to the order °f 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 
945 dated the 28th April, 1955 the Central Government with previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby certifies the films specified in column 
2 of the schedule hereto annexed, ffi all their language versions to be of the 
description specified against each In the corresponding entry of column 5 of the 
said schedule. 



•■3004 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 24 , 1906 [Past II— Sec. 3 


Schedule 


SI. Title of the Name of the Source of Whether scientific film or 
No. film producer supply film intended for edu- 

cational purposes or film 
dealing with news and 
current events or a docu- 
mentary film. 


Indian News 

Government of India, 

Government of 

Film dealing with news 

Review No, 420 

Films Division, 
Bombay. 

India, Films 

Division, 

Bombay. 

and current events. 

Indian News 
Review No. 421 

do. 

do. 

Film dealing with news 
and current events. 

With your own 
hands. 

do. 

do. 

Documentary film. 


[No. 14/ 2 / 50-FD. App.109.] 


S.R.O. 2788. — In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the pro- 
vision of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of 

■ Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 
fl45 dated the 28th April, 1955 the Central Government with previous approval 

■ of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby certifies the film specified In 
.column 2 of the schedule hereto annexed, in all its language versions to be of the 

description specified against it In the corresponding entry of column 6 of the said 
schedule. 


Schedule 


SI. Title of the film Name of the producer Source of supply Whether scientific film or 
No. film intended for educational 

purposes o r film dealing with 
news end current events Or a 
documentary film. 


X. Indian News Government of India, Government of Film dealing with news and 
Review No. 422 Films Division, India, Films current events. 

Bombay. Division, 

Bombay. 


[No. 14/2/56-FD.App. 110] 
B. S. DASARATHY, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND CONSUMER INDUSTRIES 

''New Delhi, the 15th November 1956 

S.R.O. 2W89. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 of the For- 
ward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendments in the Forward Contracts (Regulation) 



PiRT iI-*TC tfj TH® GAZHTT® OP INDIA', N 


Rules, 1 1964, published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No S.R.O. 2230 dated the 8th July, 1954 
namely:— 

In the said rules— 

1. In rule 5, for the words "six copies” the words “three copies” shall be 

substituted. 

2. In rule 7, in sub-rule (2), the words "and thei area or areas in which” 

shall be omitted. 

3. For rule 10, the following rule shall be substituted namely: — 

“10. Submission of periodical returns: 

Every recognised association shall send to the Forward Markets Com- 
mission weekly returns relating to its affairs and the affairs of 
its members, in such Form and in such manner as may be speci- 
fied in this behalf by the Forward Markets Commission,” 

4. In paragraph 1 of Form ‘A’, the words and brackets “in 

(name of area or areas)” shall be omitted. 

5. In paragraph 1 of Form B the words and brackets “In 

(name of area or areas)” shall be omitted and the following shall be 

inserted as paragraph 2, namely:— 

“2. The recognition hereby granted is subject to the condition that the 
said association shall comply with such directions as may from 
time to time be given by the Forward Markets Commission.” 

5. Form D shall be. omitted. 


[F. No. 39-Exp (6) /50.J 
T. S. KUNCHITHAPATHAM, Under Secy.. 


New Delhi, the nth November 1950 

. 8.R.O. 2790.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (i) of clause 5- 
of the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order, 1949, the Central Government here- 
by directs that the following further amendment shall be made In the Notifka- 
VPi 1 . w J he , Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce No. 67 CW 
(25A)/48, dated the 26th March, 1949, namely:— 

s u b st i t u t e d 3 U n a rrudy • — 3 ^ ° ° ’ in paragraph 6 ’ for item O) tf ie following shall be 
' ^ V \ ow el d , , p r ' ed cotton bed spreads and hand printed towellings andl 


[No. 46 (34) ~C,T. (A) /S2-35.] 
V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 


(Tea Control) 

New Delhi, the 20 th November 1956 

Act S, Rm 2 f 7 2 9 fl 1 \rf In | Qfcn er m se t he , P? wers conferred by section 49 of the Tea- 
Act, 1953 (29 of 1953), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendments in the Tea Rules, 1954, the same having been previously published 
as required by sub-section (1) of the said section, namely;. 

For rule 30 of the said rules, the following rules shall be substituted, namely: — 

nlnnmu ^ Any P erson desirous of planting tea on land not 

from tirr^ to If™ fu 011 apply B° ard in writing within such date as may 

smvev mans TnL” n r *? y the Board ln this behalf and shall furnish such 
survey maps and other particulars as may be required. 

grant ) or lim . itations set out in section 13 of the Act, the Board may 

call for further erant “ “ Parl ° nly ° r may 

Permission for extension of cultivation shall not be granted to anv estate 

“ ceeds 500 



T ) G1 % or INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1858 IFART 11— Sbc. 3 


30A. Grant o-f permission by the Board . — (1) The Board may inspect or cause 
to be inspected any land in respect of which an application for permission to 
plant tea has been made and the records relating thereto for the purpose of 
satisfying itself as to the accuracy of any survey map and generally for the pur- 
pose of enabling it to dispose of the application, 

(2) The Board may grant, in respect of each five-year period subsequent to 
the 31st day of March 1955, permission to plant tea on any land not planted 
with tea In the following manner: — 

(a) A tea estate whose permissible acreage at the commencement of each 

five-year period does not exceed 150 acres may be granted permission 
to extend its area by 40 per cent, of such permissible acreage: 

Provided that the area for which such permission is granted to the tea 
estate shall not be less than 1 acre, and shall not exceed such acreage 
as will bring the total area of the tea estate to more than 188 acres. 

(b) A tea estate whose permissible acreage at the commencement of each 

five-year period exceeds 150 acres but does not exceed 300 acres may 
be granted permission to extend its area by 25% of such permissible 
acreage: 

Provided that the area for which such permission is granted to the tea 
estate shall not exceed such acreage as will bring the total area of 
the tea estate to more than 330 acres. 

(c) A tea estate whole permissible acreage at the commencement of ach 

five-year period exceeds three hundred acres but does not exceed 
500 acres may be granted permission to extend its area by 10% of 
such permissible acreage: 

(d) Notwithstanding anything contained in clauses (a), (b) and (c), the 

acreage for which permission is granted to a tea estate to extend its 
tea area shall not exceed the acreage for which permission has 
been applied for by that tea estate. 

Explanation.— In this rule “permissible acreage at the commencement of each 
•five-year period” means the area of any land which could have been planted with 
tea at the commencement of each such period under the law then in force. 

(3) (a) The Board may also grant permission to a person, not being the 
■ owner of a tea estate and not having large interest, directly or otherwise, in the 
management and ownership of a tea estate to plant tea on land not planted with 
.tea, provided that the person proves to the satisfaction of the Board that — 

(i) he owns the land in respect of which permission to plant tea is applied 
for; 

(li) he is able to finance the undertaking, including the erection of a factory 
where necessary; and 

(iii) the land is suitable for tea plantation as regards the nature of the soil 
and climatic conditions. 

(b) The area of land in respect of which permission may be granted shall not 
■■exceed in any one case 150 acres where the applicant is an individual proprietor 
or a partnership and 300 acres where the applicant is a limited liability company. 

(c) No permission shall be granted where in the opinion of the Board the 
area in respect of which permission has been applied for is, having regard to the 
■circumstances of the case, too small for an economic plantation. 

Explanation 1»— A company or firm the management or ownership of which 
is controlled by a person or persons already holding substantial interests in tea 
plantation shall be regarded as a person having large interest in the manage- 
ment or ownership of a tea estate. 

Explanation 2.— A capital outlay of Rs. 1,000 per acre for plantation and 
Rs 500 per acre for factory shall ordinarily be considered as the standard require- 
ment of finance in respect of applications from ‘newcomers’ for areas exceeding 
10 acres: 

Provided that the applicant is able to show that he is in a position to command 
the necessary finance, permits shall be issued to the extent up to which finance 
.nan be commanded, 




Part ll— S ec- T. GAZE or INDIA, NO\ 


M3 


2007 


Applications from ‘newcomers’, who are genuine agriculturists, for an area 
not exceeding 10 acres shall, however, bei exempted from the condition regarding 
production of evidence of financial ability. 


(4) 
it has 1 
the Bo: 


Every permit to plant tea shall specify the area of land in respect of which 
been granted and shall be in force for such period as may be specified by 
ird in the permit: 


Provided that any permit issued under these rules may be renewed from 
time to time as the Board thinks fit: 


Provided further that notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2), 
the Board may, if it thinks fit, cancel any permit issued to a tea estate, or any 
part of such permit remaining unutilised softer a period of not less than three 
years from the date of issue and pool together all permits or parts thereof so 
cancelled under each of the acreage groups mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and (c) 
of sub-rule (2), and re-allot them to such tea estates in the respective acreage 
groups as had utilised in full the permits granted to them and had applied for 
further permits. 


(5) No permit granted by the Board shall be transferable: 


Provided that a permit granted to a tea estate may, with the previous per- 
mission of the Board, be transferred to another tea estate if both the estates are 
held under the same ownership. 

(6) The: owner of a tea estate to which permit is issued shall submit to the 
Tea Board, on the 31st March of each year, a return showing the acreage planted 
up to that date in pursuance of the permit, the reasons for non-utilisation of any 
acreage that may not have been planted, and the programme for planting tea for 
the next two years, 

(7) The Indian Tea Licensing Committee (Tea New Planting) Rules, 1951 are 
hereby repealed but such repeal shall not affect the validity of any permit issued 
or any action taken under those rules." 

[No. 32(12)Plant(A)/55.] 
P. V. S, SARMA, Dy. Secy. 


(Rubber Board) 


New Delhi, the 20th November 195S 
(Rubber Control) 

S.R.O, 2792. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
< 4) of section 12 of the Rubber Act 1347 (24 of 1947), the Rubber Board hereby 
fixes w(ith effect from the 1st April 1957, the periods from the 1st April to the 
30th September, and from the 1st October to the 31st March, of each financial 
year as the periods in respect of which assessment of the amount of duty of excise 
fixed under the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry No. S.R.O. 1664, dated the 1st August, 1956, shall be 
made. 


Kottayam; 

The 2 6th Octover, 1956. 


N. Krishna Pillai, 
Secretary. 


[No. 20(5)Plant(B)/56.] 
A. K. CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

New Delhi, the 15 th November 1950 
ORDERS 

S.R.O. 2793. — IDRA/5/Am(l). — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion B of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (05 of 1951), 
the Centra] Government hereby appoints Shrimati Maniben Kara, Vice-Presi- 
dent, Hind Mazdoor Sabha (All-India), Servants of India Society’s Home, Sand- 
hurst Road, Bombay 4, to be a member of the Central Advisory Council of 
Industries and directs that the following amendment shall, be made in the Order 



THE GAZETTE or INDIA, NOVEMBER 24, 1988 [Pabt II— Sec. T 


• 200 % 


of the Government of India in the Ministry of Heavy Industries No. S.R.O. 
2634, dated the 1st November, 1956, namely:- — 

In the said Order, under the heading “To represent the interests of persons 
employed in industrial undertakings in scheduled industries”, after entry No. 
19 relating to Shri S. A. Dange, the following entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


"19A. Shrimati Maniben Kara, Vice-President, Hind Mazdoor Sabha (All 
India), Servants of India Society’s Home, Sandhurst Road, Bombay 
4.” 


[No. 3(10)IA(GB)/56.J 


New Delhi, the 16 ih November 1956 

S.R.O. 2794. — In pursuance of rule 9 of the Development Councils (Proce- 
dural) Rules, 1962, made under section 6 of the Industries (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1931 (66 of 1951), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Abhijit Sen, Director, Sen-Raleigh Industries of India Ltd., Mercantile 
Buildings, Lall Bazar, Calcutta, as a substitute to take the place of Shri Sanjoy 
Sen, Technical Director, Sen-Raleigh Industries of India Ltd., Mercantile Build- 
ings, Lall Bazar, Calcutta, a member of the Development Council for the 
scheduled industry engaged in the manufacture and production of bicycles, for 
the purpose of attending the meeting of the said Council to be held in New 
Delhi on the 19th November, 1956. 

[5(20)IA(GB)/«5,J 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi , the 19th November 1956 

SJR.O. 2795,— In the Ministry of Heavy Industries Order S.R.O. 2634, dated the 
1st November 1956, published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part II — 
Section 3, dated the 1st November 1956: — 

For the entry “Minister for Home Affairs and Heavy Industries— Chairman’' 

Substitute “Minister for Commerce and Consumer Industries and Heavy 
Industries— Chairman". 

[No. 3(10) IA(GB)/56.J 
R. N. KAPUR, Under Secy. 


printed m inula by the general manager, government op lndia press, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OP PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1866 


