RBG1 S TBHEP No. D. 282 


cEhc (layette 






PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Irtbia 


No. 49] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14, *881 


The undermentioned 

Gazettes 

NOTICE 

of India Extraordinary were published upto 

the 27th Novell' 1 

lunc 

No. 

No- and date 



baued by 

Subject 

124 

No. llUTC(PN)/59, 
November, 1959. 

dated 

21st 

Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 

Import of Coaltar dyes, textile chemical! 
etc., against exports of cotton textiles, 
yarn and handloom goods. 


No. 15/59, dated 21st 
1959. 

November. 

Do. 

Cancellation of O.G.L. No. LIX, published 
as Order No. 13/59, dated 30lh Septem- 
ber, 1959. 

125 

No. 112-ITC(PN)/59, 
November, 1959, 

dated 

28 rd 

Do. 

Scheduled Industries borne on the register! 
of the Development Wing— Issue of 

"repeat” licences for raw materials Tor 
selected industries during October, 1959- 
March, 1960 licensing period. 


No, ll»-ITC(PN)/59, 
November, 1959. 

dated 

2Srd 

Do. 

Classification of chains of }" X ,V’ rize 
with the roller diameters of 0.304", 0.806" 
and 0.307" whether in cut-to-length sizes 
or in rolls— for XTC purposes. 

126 

No. PS-45(I12)/57, 
November, 1959. 

dated 

25th 

Do. 

Recommendations of the Tariff Commis- 
sion regarding charging of interest on the 
advances granted by the Government of 
India to the Indian Iron and Steel Co. 
Ltd. Calcutta. 

127 

No. 8(I)-T.R /59, 

November, 1959. 

dated 

26th 

Do. 

Reducing duties of customs on articles etc.— 
specified therein. 


No. 12(l)-T.R./59, 
November, 1959. 

dated 

26th 

Do. 

Reducing duties of customs on articles etc.— 
specified therein. 


No. 8(l)-T.R./59, 

November, 1959. 

dated 

2Gth 

Do. 

Government’s acceptance of the recommen- 
dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Hydroqulnone Industry. 


No. 12(l)-T.R,/59, 
November, 1959. 

dated 

26th 

Do, 

Government’s acceptance of the recommen- 
dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Sago Industry. 


No. 16 (l)-T.R./59, 
November, 1 959. 

dated 

26th 

Do. 

Government’s acceptance of the recommen- 
dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Grinding Wheels Industry. 

12! 

8 No. 21(3)-T.R./59, 
November, 1959, 

dated 

27 th 

Do. 

Government’s acceptance of the recommen- 
dation made by the Tariff Commission 
regarding continuance of protection to 
the Automobile Leaf Spring Industry. 


Copies of the CaxflUs Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
ml lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to i each, the Manager within ten days of the date of Issue of 
hise Gazettes. 


f 255 ) 


the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRA HAYANA 14, 1881 


[Part I— Sec. 1 


256 


contents 


Pages 

Part I — Section i.— Notification! relating to Non- 
Statutory Rules, Regulation! and Order* 
and Reaolutioni issued by the Ministries 
of the Government of India (other 

than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court . . . 2J5 

Part I — -SEcmoN a. — Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc, 
of Government Officers issued by the 

Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) 

and by the Supreme Court , . , 735 

Part I — Section 3. — Notifications relating 
to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations, 

Orders and Resolutions, issued by the 
Ministry of Defence ... 137 

PART I — Section 4. — Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Officers, Issued by the Ministry of 
Defence 299 

Part II — Suction i. — A cts, Ordinances and 

Regulations Nil 

Part II — Section a. — Bills and Reports of Select 

Committees on Bills .... 531) 

PART n — S ection 3. — Sub-Section ( 1) — General 
Statutory Rules (including orders, bye-laws 
etc, of a general character) issued bv tbo 
Minis tries of the Government of India (otner 
than the Ministry of Defence) and bv 
Central Authorities (other than the Adminis- 
trations of Union Territories) , » 1627 

Part II — 'Sbotion 3. — Sub-Section (ii). — Statutory 
Orders and notifications Issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by Central Authorities (other than the 
Administrations of Union Territories) . 3357 


Pages 

Past II — Section 4 . — Statutory Rules and 

Orders notified by the Ministry of Defence 205 

Part III — Seotion I.— Notificationt issued by 

the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, High 
Courts, and the Attached and Subordinate 
Offices of the Government of India 
[Publlshtd at Simla) , . . 1551 


Part III— Section 2.— Notifications and Notices 
issued by the Patent Office, Calcutta 
{Publishtd at Simla) .... 319 

Fart III — Seotion 3. — Notification! issued 

by or under the authority of Chief 
Commissioners ( Published at Simla ) 241 

Part HI — Seotion 4. — Miscellaneous Noti- 

fications including notifications, orders, 
advertisements and notices issued by 
Statutory Bodies (Published at Simla) . . 531 

Part IV— Advertisements and Notices by Private 
individuals and Private bodies (Publislud 
at Simla) ...... 241 


Supplement No. 45 — 

Reported attacks and deaths from cholera, small- 
pox, plague and typhus in districts in India 
during week ending the 7 th November 
1939 ..... 

ffirths and dea*hs from principal diseases In 
town* wit 11 a population ot 30,000 and 
over in India during week ending 
7th November, 1939 . 567 


PART I— Section 1 


Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


PRESIDENT’S SECRETARIAT 

New Delhi, the SOth November 1959 

No. C2-Pres./59.— The President is pleased to award the 
Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned officer of 
the Uttar Pradesh Police:— 

Name of the officer and rank 

Shri Ram Chander Singh, Constable No. 7964, VI battalion, 
P.A.C., Roorkce, Uttar Pradesh 

Statement of services for which the decoration has been 
awarded. 

On the 12th February 1957. at about mld-dav, the Superin- 
tendent of Police, Bulandsliahr, received information that 
dacoit PyaTe Singh, the ruthless and trusted lieutenant of 
notorious dacoit Jahan Singh, and some of his associates would 
assemble in a hut near village Nagaria, P. C. Jewar, to finalize 
a plan to commit a dacoity that night. 

A police informer was sent in advance 10 join the gang in 
order to keep the dacoits engaged in conversation holding out 
hopes that a few more of his associates would be joining them, 
A second informer followed with instructions to join the gang 
with three others at a convenient distance from the hut. Cons 
table Ram Chander Singh volunteered to accompany this party 
while the main body of the police force took an positions on 
three sides of the hut and about two furlongs from It. 

Constable Ram Chander Singh wearing plain clothes and 
carrying his loaded rifle, went to the hut with the Informer's 
party and was introduced to Pyare Singh and the other dacoits 
as a deserter from the armv. They then set about preparing 
a plan to commit dacoity in village Jahangirpur some three 
miles away For some reason however Pyare l1 ingh trrew sus- 
picious of Constable Ram Chander Sineh and when the latter 
hesitated on demand to show him his rifle, Pyare Singh shout- 
ing that the Constahlr appeared to be an informer, whipped 
out his pistol and aimed it at Constable Ram Chander Singh 
who jerked the dacoit’s arm aside so deflecting the shot which 
narrowly missed him The second informer then fired at Pyare 
Singh who fell down As lie was about to rise again Constable 
Ram Chander Singh shot him dead. The main police force 
hearing the shots quickly came up and captured three other 
dacoits before they could get away. 


The liquidation of notorious dacoit Pyare Singh and appre- 
hension of three membefs of his gang was a severe blow to 
Jahan Singh and his associates. 

In this encounter Constable Ram Chander Singh showed 
presence of mind, great courage and devotion to duty of a high 
order. 

2 This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 fi) of the 
Rules governing the award of the Police Medal and conse- 
quently carries with It the special allowance admissible to 
officers of and below the rank of Inspector of Police as pro- 
vided in Rule 5. 

No. 63-Pres /59.— The President is pleased to award the 
Police Medal for gallantry to the undermentioned officer of the 
Madhya Pradesh Police:— 

Name of the officer and rank 

Shri Ram Narain I.ahri, Sub Inspector of Police, Shivpuri 
District, Madhya Pradesh 

Statement of Services for which the Decoration has been 
awarded 

A Forest Contractor who had Informed the Police that 
notorious dacoit Pritam Gujar had moved from Morena to 
Shivpuri district was waylaid by the dacoit who demanded 
from him a sum of Rs. 4,000. 

Learning that Pritam Gujar would come for the money on 
the 4 lb April 19 r )9, Sub Inspector Ram Narain Lahri with a 
small posse of 3 tSub Inspectors and C Constables dressed in 
mufti proceeded to the rendezovous with the forest Contrac 
toT's servants in a truck When the truck stopped at the 
appointed place dacoit Pritam Gujar sent one of his men to 
receive the money The messenger was told to inform the 
dacoit that ,j.s the Contractor had no confidence in his ser- 
vants he had sent his own munim to deliver the money per- 
sonally to him anil that the dacoit should either come to the 
truck to take the money himself or permit the munim to 
deliver It to him. The messenger returned with Pritam 
Cujar's permission for the munim to hand the money ovei on 
condition that another servant of the Contractor In whom he 
Tiad confidence should accompany the munim 

Sub Inspector T ahri, dti-ssed as the munim, and the two 
servants of the Contractor then went towards the dacoit. When 
p certain distance from him they wefe challenged bv the 
dacoit who kept his gun levelled at them and asked them to 
advance and put the money on a rock and then leave at once. 



Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


257 


1 he d aeon's altitude was most menacing but despite the 
giuvc risk aub-inspectoi Laliri tclt ili.il Uie opportunity was 
too goon in lose ai.a mat some way ot appi eticiiaiiig die daeoit 
nnglit be touiid it be could parley with dim. lie accordingly 
intorined ilie dacoit that tils master had sent only Rs. iloUO 
and begged lot lemission ot Uie balance ol Rs. 1501). This 
lnluiiated the daunt who thicatcncd to kill him and the 
servants, but on the iiilci veil Lion ol one ot them the dacoit 
permitted the party to sit down to explain the position to 
mm; all Lhe Willie keeping his gun pointed at hub-inspector 
Latin. Dumig the ensuing convcisaLion one o£ the Contractor's 
seivants sought permission to light a ‘btdi’ and also ollercd one 
to the dacoit. As soon as the dacoit had accepted it had 
taken Jits hand olL the tugger ot Ills gun to smoke the 'bull' 
Sub-Inspector Lalin leapL on him. A fierce snuggle Look 
place. The .Sub-inspector fired a shot irorn his revolver but 
missed the ilacoit. Meanwhile, the remainder of the police 
torce rushed to the spot and hied a light pistol to illuminate 
the aiea. The daeolt managed to tree liiniselt itom the grip 
ol tlic Sub-Inspector and tired a shot at lum, hut foitunateiy 
missed, hub-inspector La'int then lned again and killed the 
dacoit, „ 

Throughout this encounter hub Inspector Shri Ram Narain 
Lahri showed gallantry, picscnce ot mind and devotion to duty 
ot a high order. 

2. This award Is made for gallantry under Rule 4 (i) of the 
Rules governing the awaid of the Police Medal and conse- 
quently canies with it Llie special allowance admissible to 
otficcrs of and befow the lank ot Inspector of Police as provid- 
ed in Rule 6. 

A. V. PAI, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNITY’ DEVELOPMENT AND 
COOPERATION 

(Department of Community Development) 
RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the ‘Mill November 1959 

No. 21/128/59-TL— The .first meeting of the Advisory 
Board for th e Central Institute of Study ifc Research in Com- 
munity Development, Mussooric field on 15th Sc 10th October, 
1959 recommended that Lwo hub-Coimnittees of the Advisory 
Boatd should be constituted, dealing Willi Reseatch and Orien- 
tation Training respectively. The Ministry have accepted the 
lecommendatton and have decided to set up with immediate 
effect lwo Sub-Committees consisting of non olhctal* and offi- 
cials Lo advise Lhe Central Institute ot Study Sc Research in 
Community Development on research and orientation training 
respectively. 

The composition of the two Sub-Committees wifi be as 
follows:— 

I. Research Sub committee: 

1. Shri S. N. Mozumdar, I.C.S. (Retd.)— Chairman. 

2. Shri If, C. Mathur, M.P. 

3. Dr. B. N. Canguly. 

4. Professor D. Ghosh. 

6. Dr. M. N. Srinivas. 

II, Orientation Training Sub-Committee : 

1. Slirl N. R. Malkani, M.P.— Chairman. 

2. Professor V. K. N. Manon, 

3. Dr. S. C. Dube. 

4. Shri Ashfaque Hussain. 

5. Shri B. Mukherji, I.C.S. 

6. Shri K. Balachandran, I.C.S. 

Order 

Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated to— 

(a) All Members of the Sub-Committees, 

(b) Principal, Central Institute of Study ft Research In 
Community Development, Mussooric, 

(c) Department of Parliamentary Affairs, 

(d) All Ministries etc. of the Government of India, 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information. 

K. BALACHANDRAN, Jt, Sccy. 


SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2,7th November 1959 

No, F,22/60-SCA(G).— In pursuance of Rule 5 of Order II 
ot the Supreme Courl Rules, 1950 (as amended) it is hereby 


notified that the following days will be observed as Court 
holidays during the year 1960. 


Name of holidays 

Month and Dale Day of the 
week 

No. 

of 

days. 

Republic Day 

26th January 

Tuesday 

I 

Shivratri 

25th February 

Thursday 

1 

Holi 

12th & 13th 

Saturday & 



March 

Sunday 

2 

fd-ul-Fitr 

291I1 March 

Tuesday 

X 

Ram Nuumi 

5U1 April 

Tuesday 

X 

Baisakhi 

13th April 

Wednesday 

1 

Good Friday 

15th April 

Friday 

I 

Budha Purnima 

nth May 

Wednesday 

I 

Id-uz-Zuha 

5th June 

Sunday 

I 

Muharram 

5th July 

Tuesday 


Jimam Ashtaini 

14th August 

Sunday 

I 

Independence Day 

15th August 

Monday 

I 

Miladun-Nubi 

4th September 

Sundry 

I 

Dussclira 

28th, 29th & 

Wednesday, 

3 


30th September 

Thursday, 

Friday 

& 

Mahalama Gandhi’s 

2nd October 

Sunday 

I 

Birthday 

Disvali 

20lh & 21st 
October 

Thursday & 
Friday 

2 

Guru Nanak’s 

3rd November 

Thursday 

I 

Birthday 

Christmas Holidays . 

19th to 30th 
December (both 
days inclusive) 


12 


By order of the Court 
ARINDAM DUTT, 
Registrar. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES & FUEL 
(Department ol Iron and Steel) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st December 1959 

No. SC.(A)-24(24)/59— In pursuance of Resolution No, SC(A)- 
-1 (193)/59, dated the 5th November, 1959, the Govern- 
ment of India hereby directs that the following amend- 
ments shall be made to the Order regarding appointment of 
lhe members to the Iron and Slcel Advisory Council, No. 
SC (A)-4 (493)/59, dated the 10th November, 1959, namely:— 

(i) for the existing entry No. (28), 

read “28. Heat Admital T. B. Bose, Chief Surveyor 
with the Government of India, Directorate 
General of Shipping, 'Commerce House’, Bal- 
lared Estate, Bombay-1." 

(ii) for the existing entry No. (18), 

read “Shri P. L. Master, President, Steel Importer* 
Association of India, India Exchange, India 
Exchange Place, Calcutta-]." 

J. S. BAIJAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 
RESOLUTION 
pApER Prices 

Nrw Delhi, the 271th November 1959 

No. CH.(l)-41(79)/59.— With the introduction of a restric- 
tive import policy Government received complaints about the 
unduly high prices charged by wholesale merchants and retail 
dealeis of paper, In order, therefore to safeguard the interests 
of the consumers, the Government of India, after discussions 
wiLh the paper manufacturers and their Associations, decided 
to refer the question of fair prices of paper to the Tariff 
Commission. On 1st September, 1958 the Tariff Commission 
was requested: 

(a) Lo enquire into die fair ex-works prices and fair sell- 
ing prices (ex-mill as also at various destinations) for 
different varieties of paper manufactured indigenously; 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1081 


[Bart 1— StC. 1 


(b) to make recommendations regarding fair prices which 
should be charged by wholesalers and retalleis of 
paper so as to ensuic that customers get a fair deal; 
and 

(c) to examine the difteientials that were determined by 
the Tariff Board in 1948 in the light of the present 
circumstances. 

Paper, Pulp boards and the following special varieties of paper 
were spccihcally included in the scope of the inquiry. 

(i) Art paper and art boards, 

(ii) Chromo paper and chromo boards, 


These prices will be applicable to all sales effected by 
wholesalers, distributors in lots of 500 lbs, and above. 
No resale commission may be charged by wholesalers/ 
distnbulois to retailers (dealers) and paper merchants 
or consumers. A commission of 5 per cent of the fair 
selling prices may be charged by retailers (dealers) 
and papei merchants for sale to consumers in icam Iols 
and up to 500 lbs. This Commission should be cal- 
culated on fair selling prices not including excise duty, 
State Government oi local levies. 

(2) Extra charges may be added to fair selling prices for 
light weight, super-calendering, colouring and rag 
conLent as below: 


(iil) Poster paper, 

(iv) Blue match paper. 

The following varieties of paper and boards were, however, 
excluded as there had been no complaints about their prices: 
(i) Cigarette paper and other tissue papers, 


(t) Light weight. 

( a)(i ) Printing and writing paper 50 

gm and above .... Normal price 

(u) Below 50 gm , • . 6 nP per lb. 


(ii) Newsprint, 


(6) Paster and krafl paper. 


(iii) Straw boards, 50 an( j above . Nonmal price 

(iv) Corrugated boards, 40 lo50gm . . . . 3 nP per lb. 

(v) Mill boards. Below 40 grn 5 nP per lb. 


2. The Commission, on conclusion of Its enquiry, has sub- 
mitted its report. The main recommendations of the Com- 
mission are as follows: 

(1) The fair ex-works prices of papers and boards which 
do not include selling expenses, freight or selling 
commission and which are applicable in aitordancc 
with existing practice to Government purchases and 
the fair selling prices of papers and paper boards 
inclusive of freight to all destinations in the country 
and selling commission, but exclusive of excise duty. 
State Government or local levies should be fixed as 
below:— 


Type of Paper 

Falr- 

ex-Works 

price 

£ nP per lb. 
(applicable 
to 

Govern- 

ment 

purcha- 

sers) 

Fair selling price- 
nP per lb. 

1. White printing paper 

• 57-o 

68-0 


2. Unbleached printing 

• 54-o 

64-0 


3. Offsct/cartridge , 

• 57-o 

68-o 


4. Antique laid/wovc 

. 57-o 

68-0 


3. Cream laid/ wove 

. 60-0 

71*0 


6. Imitation Art 

• 57'° 

68-0 

Inclusive of 

,7. Art Paper , 

. 89-0 

102*0 

super calender- 
ing charges. 

8. Chromo paper 

. 77-0 

90* 0 


9. Ledger paper : 

(a) Account Book Paper 

■ 57-o 

68 'O 

Inclusive of 

(6) Azure laid 

. 60 -0 

71-0 

super calender- 
ing charges. 
Inclusive of 

10. Banks and Bonds 

. 65-0 

77-0 

charges for 

colouring. 

11. Type writing 

. 69-0 

80-0 3 

Inclusive of 

T2. Manifold air mail 

. 86 -0 

99’0j 

'charges for 

13. Duplicating 

- 57'0 

68-o 

light weight 

and guiilonc 
cutting. 

Inclusive of 

14. Poster Paper 

• 57-o 

6S*o 

charges for 

guillotine cut- 
ting. 

15, Kraft 

16. Wrapper 

. 52-0 

62-0' 


. 51-0 

6i-o 

Inclusive of 

17. Cover Paper 

• 57-0 

68-o 

* charges for 

18, Match Paper 

• 55-o 

65-0 

colouring. 

19. Blotting Paper 

. 63-0 

74-0^ 


20. Pulp Board 

■ 57'° 

68-0 


21. Duplex Board 

■ 57-o 

68-0 


22. Ticket Board and Triplex ;6-o 

ON 

O 

Inclusive of 

Board. 

23. Art Board 

. 83-0 

96 -c 

charges for 

colouring. 

24. Chromo Board 

. 72*0 

83 '0 


(ii) Super calendering . 2 nP per lb. 

{iii) Colouring (applicable only to deep 

colouring and not tinted and toned 

paper) . . . . . 3 nP per lb. 

(iv) hug content. 

The base price of special varieties of paper like Banks and 
Bonds, ledger paper, typewriting and manifold/ airmail in which 
tag content is generally prevalent has been worked out after 
including in the cost of finished product the cost of rags up 
to 10%. Extra allowance for additional rag content is recom- 
mended as under: 

(a) 11 to 25 % . . . .3 nP per lb. 

(5)26 to 50% . . . ' . . 10 nP per lb. 

(c) above 50 % By negotiation bet- 
ween the pur- 

chaser and the 
manufacturers. 

A rebate of 2 nP per lb. has been recommended for supply in 
reels. 

(3) The demand for paper and paper board excluding news- 
print. and strawboard during 1960, 1961, 1962 and 1963 is like- 
ly to be of the order of 350,000 tons 400,000 tons, 460,000 
tons and 520,000 tons respectively. Steps should be taken 
immediately to create capacity to meet this demand. 

(4) In order to ensure that production of different varieties 
of paper and paperboards corresponds to the actual demand 
pattern early steps should be taken by Government to have a 
technical assessment of the capacity of each unit in terms of 
the several types of paper and paper board and production 
should be planned as follows:— 

Printing and Writing paper . . -67 per cent. 

Packing & Wrapping paper . . .14 per cent. 

Paperboards ..... 16 per cent. 

Special types of paper . . .3 P er cent. 

(5) Paper manufacturers should be required to market the 
several types of their manufacture wiLhin the price structure 
enunciated above on the basis of the broad definitions laid 
down. 

(6) If a case is made out, to the satisfaction of Government, 
that the manufacture and sale of a new type not included in 
the price structure should be approved for sale at a particular 
price to satisfy the needs of special classes of consumers, p^ 
mission may be granted after necessary Investigation. 

(7) For the effective administration of price control, a com- 
plete and exhaustive list of all types of speciality papers which 
arc manufactured in the country and are excluded from price 
control should be published. Any additions to or deletions 
from the list should have the explicit sanction of Government. 

(8) The Industry should continue the present practice of 
advertising periodically or every quarter fair selling prices of 
papers and paper boaids in Lite important English newspapers 
and principal language papers in the country. 

(9) As manufacturers have been provided with a freight 
allowance and an element for selling expenses at commensu- 
rate levels, they should endeavour to ensure that their pro- 
ducts reach consumers at all points in the country where they 
axe in demand in adequate quantities and in an evenly spread 
manner. Distributors/wholesalers should be appointed at all 
the important centres on the basis of population and other 
requirements. 



f art I— Sec. 1] tHi£ GAzFtl'E OF lNl)U : DECEMBER 


(JU) Manufacturers should create a machinery to enforce 
pciioimancc by the distnbutois/wliolcsaleis ot Uieir duties and 
responsibilities to the community. Ihey should have a trained 
stan of tiavciliug salesmen and inspectors who will make en- 
q nines it the lciaileis etc. in the second tier oi tile distribu- 
tions system, do letiaui (tout anti-soLial activities nr legaid to 
prices and disti ibution. 


6 , 1&59/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


AVui Delln-2, 21th November 1959 

No. F.9- fo/jH-H.h- In puisu.tnce oi Mimstiy of Education 
Re^oluuon No. 1.9-lb, jtS-ti.I datLd the 19ih May, 1959, Lhe 
following pei sons have been appointed as Chairman and 
hlenibeis i)i the Kcndnya id tilth tshikshana Mandai.- 

1, Chau man. 


(11) The present - trade practice of permitting distributors/ 
wholesaler io add commission upto it per cent oil the lair 
selling puces loi resale of paper to reLaiieis (dealers) and 
paper merchants should he discontinued. 

(12) Stale JJirectuis ut Industries should render Assistance to 
small scale" stationery manutacturers who deal in exercise books 
tor the studeru community to procure their requirements of 
printing and writing paper. 

(13) Government may examine the feasibility of making 
auangements whereby paper mills would be able to obtain 
waste paper in bulk quantities direct fiom Government Depart- 
ment, both Central and State, instead of through intermediate 
dealers. 

(14) The possibility of permitting long term leases of forests 
to paper, mills with a view to fo.sLcung noth planned develop- 
ment and scientific exploitation may be considered. 

(15) Encouragement should be given to the establishment of 
pulp manufacturing units independently oi paper mills. 

(16) The paper industry should take immediate steps to 
amalgamate the two associations ol manufacturers which are 
now in existence. 

3. lhe Government have accepted recommendations (1) and 
(2) regarding prices and the paper mills have been called upon 
Lo issue a revised price list accordingly with effect from the 
1st January 1960. 

Recommendation (14) is already under their examination. 
Government will take necessary steps to implement recom- 
mendations (3), (4), (5), (fi), (7), (t2) and (13). 

lhe attention oi State Governments is invited to recom- 
mendation (12) and they will be icquested to take appropiiatc 
action. 

The attention of the industry Is specifically invited to recom- 
mendations (6), (8), (9), (10), (11) and (16), 

Order 


Slin M. Saiyanaiayaiia, M.1*. 

Members 

2. lit pi t tt Motives of Lhe Government of India. 

(!) Deputy Secretary, indiaigc ot Hindi Division Ministry 
or Education. 

(u) Deputy f inancial Adviser, attached to the Ministry 
ot r.ducation. 

3. McmMn nominated by Lhe Ministry of Education in- 
chining two luentbcis of Lon Subha and one of Rajya Sabha, 

(ij aim Avvadli Nan dan Shaima, C/o Balika Vidyapceth, 
Eaklnsaiai, Disiucr Monghyr, (hihar). 

(li) i*i ol. N. Nagappa, M.A. Head of the Hindi Depart- 
ment, iviju.u.ij.. s College, Mysore. 

(in) Di. Vniny Molian SJiaima, Principal, Government 
College, Kaigaifi (Madhya Ihadesh).; 

(iv) Pint. X. N, Marian, Head of the Hindi Department, 
i u.v.'isiL) oi J'Uiij.lb, ciiandigaifi. 

(v) Prof. A Cliandrahasan, Prolessor of Oriental, Langu- 
ages, Maharajas College, Einakulam, 

(vt) In. H. P. Gupta, Head ot the Post Graduate Depart- 
ment ot Hinut, University ot Jammu and Kashmir, 
Si uiagar. 

(vn) Di. Bull wanath Prasad, Director, K.M. Institute of 
Hindi Studies and Linguistics, Agra University, Agra. 

(vin) Dr. Nagcndra Nagaidi, Head of tlie Hindi Depart- 
ment, Delhi University, Delhi. 

(ix) Sliri S. S. Raju Naidu, Head of the Hindi Depart- 
ment, University ot Madias, Madras. 

(x) Siiri M. E. Dwivedi, M.P., (Lok Sabha). 

(xi) Shu N. Kcsfiava, M.P., (Lok Sabha). 

(xn) Shri Banaiasi Das Chatturvedi, M.P., (Rajya Sabha). 


Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated to 
all concerned. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette 
ot India for general information. 

ASHFAQUE HUSAIN, Jt. Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25th November 1959 

No. 264/I(2)/HQ/59/29I2.— Whereas M|s. The American Oil 
and Trading Co., Rcvdi Bazar, Ahmedabad-2 *113X6 denied the 
receipt of Licence No. E988342/57/EI/CCI/HQ, dated I4th 
Jfily 1959, valued at Rs. 24,884/- for the import of Mineral 
Oils N.O.S. as mentioned in para, 3 (B) (A) of Appendix XV1H 
of the Policy Book for the relevant period, from the General 
Area except Union of South Africa, granted by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi to the said 
M/s, The American Oil and Trading Co., Revdl Bazar, 
Ahmedaliad-2 and whereas any Bank or any other person 
have not come forward furnishing sufficient cause, against 
NWre No. 254/1 (21 /HQ/59/537, dated the 8th October, 1959, 
proposing to cancel the above-mentioned licence, the Govern- 
ment of India, in the Ministty of Commerce and Industry, in 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Older 1955, hereby cancel the said licence No. 
E988342/57/EI jC.C.l / HQ dated Ifth July 59, issued to the 
said M/s. The American Oil and Trading Co., Revdl Bazar, 
Ahmedabad-2. 

K. T. SA TARAWA LA, 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 25th November 1959 

No. F.C-18/59-A.10.— In partial modification of the Ministry 
of Education Resolution No, F.6-13/59-A. 10, dated the 19th 
August, 1959, Shri K, R. Ramachamlran, I.A.S., Deputy Secre- 
tary, Ministry of Education, has been appointed the Ministry’s 
reprcsentative-Mcmber of tile Committee on the proposed 
Archival Legislation, with effect from the 23rd November, 
1959, in place of Shri Nizamuddin Ahmed, IA..S. 

R. L. AN AND, Under Secy. 


4. Representatives of the volunlry Hindi organisations. 

(i) Shri K. Atchutha Reddi, president, Hindi Prachax 
Sabha, Hydeiabad. 

(ii) Mahamahopadiiyaya D. V. l’otdar President, Maha- 
rashtra Rashtra Bhasha, Prachar Samiti, Poona. 

(iii) Shri Maganbhai Dcsai, Vice Chancellor, Gujrat Uni- 
versity, Ahraedabad. 

(iv) Shri Shambuo Nath Parimoo, Secretary, Managing 
ComtnitLcc, Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Barbarshah, Sri- 
nagar. 

(v) Shri N. Sundara Iyer, Kerala Hindi Prachar Sabha, 
Ernakulam. 

(vi) .Shri S, R. Shastii, Dakshin Bharat Hindi Prachar, 
Sabha, (Taniilnad) Trichi. 

(vii) Shri Sidh Nath Pant, Honorary Chirman, Sahltya 
Slnkshan Samiti, Karnatak Hindi, Prachar Sabha, 
Dhaiwar. 

(viii) Shri Lalita Madhab Sharma, Vice-President, Mani- 
pur Hindi Parishad, Imphal. 

(ix) Shri R. K. Bose, Secretary, Utkal Prantiya Rashtra 
Bhasha Piathar Sabha, Cuttack. 

(x) Shri D. D. Menon, General Secretary, Punjab Prantiya 
Hindi Saliitya Sammelan, Ambala Gantt. 

(xi) Shri Umesh Lai Singh, Secretary, Tripura State 
Rashtra Bhasha Prachar Samiti, Agartala. 

(xii) Shri Rcbti Ranjan Sinha, Secretary, West Bengal 
Rashtra Bhasha Prachar Samiti, Calcutta. 

(xiii) Shri Padaro Singh Sharma, "Kamlesh", Head of the 
Hindi Dcpaument, Agra College, Agra. 

(xiv) Shri Rameshwar Dayal Dube, Examination Secretary, 
Rashtia Bhaslia Prachar Samiti Wardlia. 

(xv) Shri Kama! Nayan Bajaj, M.P., Treasurer, Akhll 
Bhartiya Hindi Parishad Agra. 

(xvi) Shri Balachandra Aptc, Principal, Hindi Pracharak 
Vidyalaya, 2-4-1098, Kachiguda, Hyderabad. 

A. K. JAIN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 
AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 25 th November 1959 

No. F.12-18/S9C2.— In pursuance of the Ministry of Edu- 
cation Resolution No. 24-4/53.H3 dated the 27th/S0th July 
1953 read with [be Ministry of Scientific Research and Cul- 
tural Affaiis, Notification No. F. 12-I0/58.C2 dated 1st August 




TtiE GAZETTE OF INDtA : DECEMBER 5, 1959 /AGRAHAyANA 14, lsSl [Part 1-Sfcc. 1 


1958, the Government of India aie pleased to reconstitute the 
tmmiui of the National Libraty, Calcutta, as follows for a 
penod of ihiee ycais with eltect front the date of issue of the 
notification:— 

Chairman 

1 . joinL Educational Adviser (C) Ministry of Scientific 

Research and Cultural Allans. 

Two Members Nominated by the Government of West Bengal 

2. Sim A. K. Chanda. 

3. Shu hhupati Mohan Sen. 

One Member Nominated by the University of Calcutta 

4. Eo be notified later on. 

Due Member Nominated by the Centiul Universities by 
Rotation 

5. Dr. S. Das Gupta, Libranan, University of Delhi, Delhi. 
Mx. Members Nominated by the Government of India 

0. Shri Rain Goswaini, Ltbiarian, State Central Library, 
Shillong (Assam). 

7. Shu S. G, Deb, Honoiaiy Sccictary, Public Library, 

Allahabad (U.P.). 

8. Shri N. D. Sundaiavadivelu, Director of Public Libraries, 

Madras. 

9. Shri P. N. Pubhp, Assistant 1 Elector, Reseatch, Siinagar 

a * *>< 

10, Prof, M. Mujccb, Vice-Chancellor, Jarnia Millia Isiamia, 

New Delhi. . _ . , 

11. To be notihed laLer on. 

V. P. AGNIHOTRI, Under Secy. 


3. To examine the dilhculties experienced and to suggest 

modifications and improvements in the existing facili- 
ties. 

4. To examine die advisability of concentrating post-gradu- 

aLe courses m selected institutions for better progress. 

5. To consider the manner of achieving close coordina- 

tion of post-giaduate training and research with the 
majoi developmental and engiiieerng schemes in tiie 
touuLry. 

(i. To report on all other aspects of improvement and 
development of post-graduate courses. 

Order 

Ordeted that a copy ol the Resolution be communicated to: 
(l) The Secretary, University Grants Commission, New 
Delhi. 

(ii) i lie Secretaries to all State Governments, Technical 
Education Departments. 

(uij Ifie Registrars of all Universities in India. 

(iv) lhe Rcgistiar, Indian Institute ol Science, Bangalore. 

(v) The Registrar, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharag- 
pur. 

(vi) lhe Registiar, Indian Institute o£ Technology, 
Bombay. 

(vn) l'lie Registrar, Indian Institute of Technology, 
Madras. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the Gazette 
ot India lor geneijl inhumation. 

G. k, CUANDIKAMANI, Jt. Secy. 


RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 2,8th November 1959 

No. 4-4/59.T.5.— On the recommendations of the AH India 
Councd tor Technical Education, Post-Graduate Gourses in 
Engineering and Technology have been started in a number 
ot institutions m the country and facilities have also been 
piovided for advanced work and research. The effectiveness 
ol lhe provision already made and the extent ot further desir- 
able expansion in tins held has been engaging the attention of 
the Post-Graduate Development Committee of the All India 
Council for Technical Education and the Working Group on 
Technical Education for the Thud-Five Year Plan. It has 
been proposed by the Council that a comprehensive enquiry 
should be made into the matter with a view to formulating 
a plan which will yield the most fruitful results in this im 
povtaiu field of activity. , . jjL1- 

2. In pursuance of the above recommendation, the Govern- 
ment of India have appointed a Committee with the Terms of 
Reference as given below:— ' 

Personnel of the Committee: 

Chairman 

1. Prof. M. S. Thacker, Secretary to the Government of 

India Ministry *f Scientific Research and Cultural 

Affairs. 

Members 

2. Dr. A. N. Khosla, Vice Chancellor, Roorkee University. 

8. Dr. D. S. Kothari, Prof, of Physics, Delhi University 

and Scientific Adviser to the Minister of Defence. 

4. Dr. K. S. Krfahnan, Director, National Physical Labora- 

tory, New Delhi. 

5. Dr. H. L. Roy, Emeritus Professor, College of Engineer- 

ing and Technology, Jadavpur University. 

6. Prof. B. Sengupla, Director, Indian Institute of Techno- 

logy, Madras. 

7. Dr. P. R, Ramakrishnah, M.P., Principal, Coimbatore 

Institute of Technology, Coimbatore. 

6. Dr. S. Bhagavanthanr, Director, Indian Institute of 

Science, Bangalore. 

9. Shri G. K. Chandiramani, Joint Educational Adviser to 

tlie Government of India, Ministry of Scientific Re- 
search and Cultural Affairs, New Delhi. 

Member -Secretary 

10. Dr. P. K, Kclkar, Deputy Director, Indian Institute of 

Technology, Bombay. 

Terms of Reference: 

1. To visit the various centres of Post-graduate studies/ 

research. 

2. To evaluate the progress so far made in the develop- 

ment of tlie post-graduate courses/research in 

Engineering and Technology. 


MINISTRY OT RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1959 

No. E58-Col/RBL— T he Government of India have set up a 
Committee to lecommend measures to be taken to standardise 
the curricula and the standard oi training in Technical Train- 
ing Schools on Railways. 

The Committee consists of:— 

Chairman 

1. Sim B. B. Varma, Retired General Manager. 

Member 

2. Shri A. K. Basu, Retired General Manager. 

Secretary 

3. Shri T. G. Pasricha, officiating personnel Officer, Eastern 

Railway. 

The terms of reference of tlie Committee are as follows:— 

(i) To conduct a Survey of the facilities provided and of 
the courses and syllabi of training imparted to the various 
Class III and IV categories of staff in the professional/technical 
Training Schools on tlie Indian Railways with a view to 
seeing whether the existing standards lor— 

(a) initial 

(b) refresher, and 

(c) promotion 

courses meet in full the needs of the services and recommend 
what, if any, changes are necessary. 

(ii) To recommend standard syllabi for theoretical training, 
and practical training where necessary, for these categories of 
staff, so that the standard of training on the Railways may 
he uniform and personnel are adequately trained. 

(iti) To examine the need for the preparation of text books 
on Railway subjects and the manner in which this can best be 
achieved. 

2. The Committee will endeavour to submit Its Report 
within a period of 0 months. 

R. E. de SA, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi , the 19th November 1959 

No. 6-MT(38)/58.— In pursuance of paragraph B of the 
scheme for the administration of the Merchant Stamen’s 
Amenities Fund, published with the notification of tfic late 
Ministry of Commerce, No. 50-MII(7)/49, dated the 27th 



Paht I— Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5, 1 959/AGRA HA YANA 14, 1881 


261 


August 1949 and in partial modification of tlie notifications 
of the Minisliy of Transport and Communications (Depart- 
ment of Transport) No. 6-MT(38)/58. dated the 22nd .Sept- 
ember 1958 and the 24th December, 1958, the Central Gov- 
ernment lieteby nominates Capt. J. D. Mody, I.N , as a Mem- 
ber of the General Committee for management and adminis- 
tration of the Mciihant .Seamen's Amenities Fund, vice C apt. 
K. R. Nair, I.N., resigned. 

J. V. DASS, Undei Set y. 


(Department of Transput t) 

(Transport Wing) 

Pones 

New Delhi, the 2Mh November 1959 

No I3-PG(39)/59.— The Government of India have reteived 
the Administration Report of the Port of Mat has for the 
year 1958-59, The following are the noteworthy features of 
the Report: 

1. Financial Results: 

The financial results for the year were satisfactory. The 
Revenue receipts of the Port Trust for the year under review 
amounted to Rs. 219.73 lakhs as against Rs, 2G5.43 lakhs in 
the previous year, 

The net expenditure for the year, excluding the amount 
held under suspense and the amounts paid as contributions 
to the Renewals and Replacement Fund, General Insurance 
Fund, Cjapital Account and the Revenue Reserve Fund aggre- 
gating to Rs. 1 17 15 lakhs, amounted to Rs. 160.79 lakhs as 
against Rs. 135.39 lakhs during the previous year. The re- 
duction in the revenue surpluses of the port for the year 
as cnmpaied to the previous year was mainly due to a fall 
In the revenue receipts (Rs, 43,69,279), increased establish- 
ment charges (Rs. 6,29.878) and payment of In (Teased debt 
Charge (Rs. 10,42,619). 

Pilotage Fund: 

The Pilotage Fund receipts and expenditure amounted to 
Rs. 7-37 lakhs and Rs. 5'54 lakhs respectively. The expendi- 
ture is Inclusive of a contribution of Rs. 2 lakhs to the 
Revenue Arrount. The actual dosing balance of the Pilotage 
fund at the end of 1958-59 was Rs 5,57,539. 

Reserve Funds: 

The balances In the vatious Reserve Funds at the end of 
the year wexe satisfactory. 

Outstanding Loans: 

The oul standing amount of loans taken by the Port Trust 
from Government was Rs. 4-43.03 lakhs at the end of the 
year. 

An agteement was signed with the International Bank for 
Rrronstiuction and Development, Washington for the grant 
ot a loan of 14 million dollais to enable the Madras Port 
Trust to meet the foreign exchange requirements of the 
development programme of the Port. A sum of Rs. 29,37,264 
was drawn fiorn ihc Bank in various currencies during the 
year. 

2. Traffic: 

The total dead weight tonnage of imports and exports, 
which passed through the Port during the year was 17,37.399 
and 7,02,769 respectively. The figures for the last, year were 
1885489 (imports) and 618599 (exports). There was a 
decrease in foreign and coastwise imports and an increase In 
both foreign and coastwise exports The total volume of 
trade, that passed through the Port during the vrar register- 
ed a decrease oE 2 6% as compared with the pirvious year. 

The tonnage of coal imported by sea dining the year 
was 319,221 as against 357,!$I during the pirvious year. 

3 Shipping: 

The number of vessels, excluding sailing vessels, that 
entered the harbour during the year was 1055 .is against 993 
in the picvious year. The net tonnage inrtcased from 

3,497,112 to 1,040,702. Seven sailing vessels with a net ton- 

nage of 131 arrived duting the year as against 17 with a 
net tonnage of 1458 during 1957-58. 

4. Labour: 

The employees of the Port shuck amt for 11 clays from 
the 16th to the 26th June 1958. Barring this the labour 

situation in the port during tile year was fairly normal. 

4. Works: 

The following arc some of the notcwoilliy items:— 

(i) The work on the Transit Shed and Passenger .Station 
was completed during the year and opened for naffic use. 

(li) The work on the cotisti notion of the Ore Berth was in 
progress. 

(hi) Piling work tor the Coal Jelly was commenced during 
the year. 


(iv) The scheme for the construction of a six-berth wet dock 
was In diffeient stages of progress. The contract for the 
coustt action of the wet dork w T as awarded in October 1958 and 
orders were placed for necessary equipment. 

(v) The wotk on the Coal and Ore Yards was completed 
during the year. 

(vi) The eastern sidings of the Marshalling Yard were near- 
ing completion. A new mixed gauge weighbridge was com- 
pleted. T lie road and the fencing round the Marshalling 
Yard were completed during the year. Additional land to an 
extent of 25 acres were acquired from tint Madras Government 
along the foreshore. 

(vii) The construction of the low level reservoir for water 
supply to the Hospital and Administrative Office was in pro- 
gress. 

(vlii) The work of constructing a double-storeyed warehouse 
‘K.’ ar the site of the Spring-haven Shed was started. The 
R. C Pile foundation work was completed and the building 
superstructure work was commenced. 

(ix) A double storeyed warehouse in replacement of the 
existing warehouse ‘W’ was constructed and thrown open to 
ttaffic (hiring the year, 

(x) The new Hospital and the Dispensary started function- 
ing during the year. 

(xi) Pile foundation for the construction of the new Admin- 
istrative Offices was completed during the year and the super- 
strurtuic work was commenced. 

(xii) The housing programme of the port made further 
progress during thy year. Sixteen units of type I and 108 
units of type II quarters at Cossimodc were constructed and 
allotted to the employees. The construction of 7R units of 
type I and 108 units of type II at Tondiarpet was nearing 
completion. Work on the construction of 156 units of type I 
and 124 units of type II at Tondiarpet has made substantial 
progress. Additional land adjoining the existing housing 
colony is being acquired to enable construction of additional 
Units. 

(xiii) The work relating to the provision of office accommo- 
dation for the Madras Dock Labour Board was nearing com- 
pletion 

(xiv) The Port Trust acquired a number of steel barges, a 
fork lift truck, tractors, cranes, a fuel injection equipment, a 
welding set, a boring machine, lathes an amhulanre van, 
welding and cutting outfit, and steel sack trucks. 

Acknowledgement: 

The Port Trust Board performed another year of useful 
work and Government view with appreciation the work done 
bv the Board during the year tinder review. 

NAKUL SEN. Jt. Scev. 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION Sc BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 
State Awards for Films 
New Delhi-2, the 27 th November, 1959 

No 21/ll/H9-TC(FT).—ln supersession of the Resolution of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No 2I/5/58-FC, dated the Rth Deccmbrr, 1958. 
the following rules are notified conrnning State Awards for 
Films:— 

RUI.F.S 

1. The object of the State Awards for Films is to encourage 
the production of films of a high aesthetic and technical 
standard and or educational or rtiltural value. 

2. The following State Awards for Films have been insti- 
tuted: 

All-India Awards 

(a) Feature Films: 

(i) President's Gold Medal for the best film and a cash 
prize of Rs. 20,000 to its producer and Rs. 5,000 to 
its director. 

(ii) All-Tndia Certificate of Merit for tbc serond best film 
and a (asfi prize of Rs. 10,000 to its producer and 
Rs 2.500 to its director. 

(iii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the third best film. 

(Id Documentary Films: 

(i) President’s Gold Medal for the best film and a rash 
prize of Rs 4,000 to its pmduccr and Rs. 1,000 to its 
dlrerlnr. 

(ii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the second best film 
and a rash prize of Rs. 2.000 to its producer and 
Rs. 500 to its dlrertor. 

(iii) All-Tndia Certificate of Merit for the third best film. 

(c) Children's Films: 

(i) Prime Minister’s Gold Medal for the best film and 
a cash prize of Rs. 20,000 to its producer and 
Rs. 5,000 to its director. 



262 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


[Past I— Sic. 1 


(ii) All-India Certificate o£ Merit for tit,, second best film 
and a cash prize of Rs 10,000 to its producer and 
Rs. 2,500 to its director. 

(iii) All-India Certificate of Merit ftn the third best film. 

(d) Educational Films (16 mm only)-. 

(i) President's Cold Medal for the best film and a cash 
prize of Rs. 4,000 to its producer and Rs 1.000 to its 
director, 

(ii) All-India Certificates of Meiit for the second and 
third best films. 

Note:— 

The term 'educational film' means an educational film 
In 16 mm only and includes a scientific, instructional 
or experimental film. 

(e) Filmstrips (35 mm): 

(1) President's Silver Medal for the best filmstrip, 

(ii) All-India Certificates of Merit for the second and 
third best filmstrips, 

Regional Awards 

(f) President's Silver Medal for the best feature film in each 

Indian language and Certificates of Merit for the 
two next best feature films in eath sulIt language. 

Explanation 

The terms "producer” and "director” used herein will be 
construed as icfeiring to the producer or ditettor. 
is the case may be, as given in the credit titles of the film duly 
certified bv the Central Board of Film CcnsoTS. 

5 The Awatds will be made annuallv on a date to be fixed 
by Government. 

4 All Indian films certified for public exhibition by the 
Central Hoard of Film Ccrifcors and all filmstrips certified bv 
the producers as produced in the ptcceding calendar year will 
be eligible foi entry, which niav lie made bv the producer 
or any other duly authorised peisoti in the Form contained in 
the Schedule hereto annexed. 

6 No entry fee will be chaiged. but the entrant will sub- 
mit at his cost to such Regional Officer of the Cential Board 
of Filin Censois oi to any other authority as may lie specified: 

(1) a print of the film or the filmstrip as the case may be: 
and 

(ii) a rnpv of the synopsis, together with an English 
render uig theicof and a copy of the songs, if any. 
together with their free translation in English or 
Hindi 

Tlie entrant of a film selected for viewing bv the Central 
Committee will suhrnlt at his cost the specified number of 
copies of the detailed dialogue srritit in English or Hindi as 
well as the publicity material relating thneto in addition to 
the print and synopsis of the film 

6. The decision of the Government of India whether any 
film Is a feature film, documentary film, educational film or 
children’s film lor the purpose of entry foi the Awards will 
be final. Government may prescribe the maximum length 
of a children's him for the purpose of entry for the Awaids. 

7 Ordinarily, a film which is a dubbed version a retake or 
an adaptation of another film will not be eligible for con 
sideration for the Awards. Government may, however, in anv 
particular instance, where it is satisfied that the adapted 
version or the retake represents a fresh contribution fowaidx 
th e interpretation oE the subject, allow the entry of such a 
film for the Awards The producer of a film made in more 
than one language versions, mav enteT only one of the versions 
of that film Films based on classics or mvtbologv shall not) 
by reason of the subject only, be deemed to be adaptations. 

8 F.ntries for the Awards will be Invited bv Government 
during a period to be notified rclaxable in exceptional cases 
at the discretion of Government 

9 All transport costs on flic consignment and lcturn of (lie 
films and publicity material will be payable by the entrant 

10 All films will be submitted at owner’s risk and while 
the Government will take everv reasonable carp of tlie films 
submitted it .cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage 
to tlie film while in its possession. 

IT Three Regional Gommittees appointed bv Government 
will Initially examine feature films enlcicd for the Awards in 
the languages indicated below-— 

(i) Regional Committee at Bombay--! lindi (including 
Ihdu and Hindustani!, Maxatlii. Punjabi. GujaTari, 
Slndhl and English. 

(ii) Regional Committee at Calcutta— Bengali, Assamese 

and Oriya 

(iii) Regional Committee at Madras— Tamil, Telugu, 
Kannada and Malayalam. 


12. Each Regional Comlhlttce will be composed of: 

(a) A Chairman nominated by Government. 

(h) Not more than four distinguished persons of culture, 
art or literature nominated by the Government of 
India in consultaion With the State Government con- 
cerned with language, (Care will be taken to ensure 
that all the languages of the region are represented hr 
the selection of these four persons), 

(c) Persons, not exceeding three, qualified to judge techni- 
cal standard, presentation, direction arid treatment 
values of films, nominated by Government from a 
pane] of names representing the industry. 

13. The Regional Committees will recommend in order of 
merit a list of three feature films in each language of con- 
sideration by the Central Committee. 

14. The documentary films entered for the Awards will be 
initially examined by a Documentary Committee appointed by 
Government with a membership not exceeding five including 
the Chairman. This Committee will recommend in order of 
meut up to six documentary films for consideration by the 
Central Committee. 

15. The educational films and filmstrips entered for the 
Awards will be initially examined by an Educational Commit- 
tee appointed by Government with a membership not exceed- 
ing five including the Chairman. Tlie Committee will recom- 
mend in ordci of merit up lo six educational films and up to 
six filmstrips foi consideration by tlie Central Committee. 

16. The Central Committee will be composed of: 

(a) A Chairman nominated by Government. 

(b) Chairmen of the three Regional Committees, Educa- 
tional Committee and the Documentary Committee. 
Where a Chairman is not available Lo sit on the 
Central Committee, Government may nominate a 
member of Lhc Committee concerned on the Central 
Committee. 

(c) Not more than four distinguished persons of culture, 
art or literature nominated by Government. 

(d) Persons, not exi ceding three, qualified to judge techni- 
cal standatd, presentation, direction and treatment 
values of films, nominated by Government from a 
panel of names representing the industry. 

(e) One member of the Central Board of Film Censors 
nominated by Government. 

17. Nothing contained in rules 12, 14, 15 and 16 will pre- 
clude the co option by a Committee of an additional member 
or members to assist the Central, Documentary, Educational 
or a Regional Committee, as the case mav be, In examining 
doiumentaiv, eduiational or children’s film or films in any 
language and the member or members so co-opted will have 
all the rights of an ordinary member. 

18. Membership of the Central, Documentary, Educational 
and Regional Committees will be honorary, but the members 
mav be allowed such travelling and ronveyance allowances as 
may be sane tinned bv Government From time to time. 

19 The Central Committee will consider the recommenda- 
tions of the Regional Committees, the Educational Committee 
and the Doiumentary Committee and retommend in order of 
merit: 

(1) Three best featmc films for the All-India Awards. 

(2) Three best dorumentaiy films for the All-India 
Awards 

(3) Three best educational films for the All-India Awards. 

(4) Three best filmstrips for the All-India Awards 

(5) Three best feature films in each language other than 
English for Regional Awards 

20 (I) The Central Committee will, subject to the pro- 
visions of sub rule (2), also examine the children’s films 
entered for the Awards and iceommcnd the best three films 
in order of merit 

(2) IE the number of entries in the category of children's 
films so warrant'’, Government may entrust the initial exami- 
nation of films Lo the Documentatv Committee or a Special 
Committee constituted for this purpose consisting of not more 
than five members including the Chairman, which will recom- 
mend in ordei of merit, not more Ilian six films for con- 
sideration by the Cential Committee. 

21 The Regional Committees, the Documentary Committee, 
the Educational Committee, the Special Committee for 
Children’s Films (if anv) and the Central Committee may 
determine their own procedure for the examination of films. 

22 The quorum of each of the Documentary Committee, 
Educational Committee and the Special Committee for 
Children's Films will be three, while that of the Central and 
the Regional Committees seven and four respectively. 

23. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as restrict- 
ing the discretion of a Regional Committee, the Documentary 
Committee, the Educational Committee, the Special Committee 



Tart I— Sec, 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 5, 1D59/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


263 


lor Childien’s Films (if an;) 01 the Central Committee from 
making a iccommcndation that none of the films in a parti- 
(iilar language or catcgoi v is of a standard adequate for an 
Awaid, 

24. The rei omnjendafions of the CenLial Committee will be 
submitted to Government. 

25. A film will he eligible foi an Awaid only m one of the 
fowl categories viz., featme, donimentary, educational or 
thildien's him A feature him receiving an All-India Award 
shall not be eligible foi a Regional Award 

26. The Regional Committees, the Documcntaiy Committee, 
the Educational Committee, the Special Committee fot Child- 
ren's Films (i£ any) and the Central Committee will 
examine liluis at such plate anti time as may be consideted 
feasible 

27 C.oveinmcnl shall be entitled to main, without pay- 
ment of tost, the pi in L entered for the Awards of a him or 
filmstrip, which icteivcs an Awattl in the fonn of a Medal 
and/or cash 

28 r l lie filiation for the picsentaLion of Lhe Awards will 
he held at such plate and on suth date as Government mav 
determine. 

29 . Canvassing in anv form 111 it. spent ol an enLiy will 1 en- 
ds » that entry liable to disqualification ftn Awards Anv 
inunbei ol the Central Committee, Dix timrniary Committee, 
I dut-ation al Committee, the Spetial Committee for Children's 
l thus fit anv) 01 the Regional Committees found canvassing 
Ini a pm initial him is liable to be disqualified foi member- 
ship ol tli(_ Committee* 


Si Urm.11 n 

/•'briii 

lot entiv im the Male Aw, nils foi Film 
n o be submitted in duplicate) 

1 See rule 1) 

To 

The Regional OfTn ct , 
fcitnl Bn.i tl of (ii’ni fiiisni' 

Ilombay/C th utu 'Madias. 

/ nil) foi Slate Ai Hauls for 1 thus 
1 (i) Title of tile filrrl/ffljnstiip 

,ii) Whether Fcatuie/Documenlar) /Erlutational/CliihUin s 
film. 

(iii) Language of the film. 

fiv) Length and gauge of the •film/hlmstrip. 

(v) Number of reels. 

fvi) Coltiui oi the filin/lilmstup. 

(vii) Name and full address of the producer (with telephone 
numbei and telcgiaphic address, if any). 

(viu) Name and full address of the Director. 

fix) Names and full addi esses of principal lnembcis of the 
casr, 

(\) Number and date of Certificate of Exhibition 
(\i) Date of release. 

2. Please stale whether the film i, a dubbed version, an 
adaptation 01 a reiake of another film. If iso, give particulars 
of the him of which it is a dubbed veision, an adaptation or 
a retake, 

.1. Whole the pci son making the entiy is not tlie pioducer 
please .state whether he has been duly authorised to make the 
entry. 

I certify that the statements made above are lute to the 
best of my knowledge and belief. 

I heicbv agtcc to the Government ictainiiig the print of the 
Iilm/hhnstnp. without payment of cost, in the event of its 
retcivmg an Awaul in the form of a Medal and/or cash 

•I certify that the filmstrip was produced during the 
year.— 


L; Signature: 

f ,acc: Address: 

•Delete if not applicable. 


. 'itrtd that the Resolution be published in the Gazette of 
India for general information. 


V. KUMAR, Dy. Secy. 


PUBLIC NOTICE 
Srvir Awards for Films 
New Dehi-2, the 2nd Derembei, 1959 

Si'BjECr -Entiles for State Awards for Films for 1959 

No. 7/14/59-FL— In pursuance of rule 8 of the Rules con- 
cerning State Awaids for Films notified in the Resolution of 
Hie Government of India in the Ministry of Jnfoimation and 
Broadcasting No. 21 / 1 1/ifi-FC (Ft), dated the 27th November, 
1959, entries foi the State \waids for Filins are hereby invited 
in respect of Indian hints certified for public exhibition during 
the calender year 1959 and filmstrips produced during the 
sairte vear The entrv in respect of a film or filmstrip may 
be made liv its producer or any other person duly authorised 
hv him in this behalf, up to Januaiy 7, I960, free of charge. 
'Ibe entiv will be made in duplitafe in the Form prescribed 
111 the Schedule annexed 10 the Rules iefcned to above. 

2 Entries in respect of the various categories of films should 
be addiessed to the auflioufies indicated below: 

(a) Regional Office 1 , Central Hoard of Film Censors, 91, 
[Valheshu'ar Road, Ham bay-6. 
tl) Feature films in Hindi (including Uidu and 
Hindustani), Gujaiali, Mauthi, Punjabi, Sindhi 
and English 

( if) Documentary films in all languages. 

(iii) Children’s films in all languages 
liv) Educational films h all languages, 
tv) Filmstrips 

(hi Regional Officer. Central Ihimd of ribn Censors, 12, 
Dalhovsie Square, Calcutta. 

Featme films in Bengali, Oriya anti Assamese 

(t) Regional Offim, Cintial llond of Film Centals, Flat 
Vo. 17, Second Hoar, lgurchand Mansion, Mount Road, 
MaJius-2. 

Featme films in 'I ainil, Irbigu, Kannada and Malavalam. 

"4. \ 11 ennaut will be lcquiied to submit at his cost to suth 
Regional Offitcr of the Genual Brian! di Film Censors or to 
any otbei authority as may be spccihrd a print of the film 01 
the filmstrip and a tojiv of the synopsis and songs together 
with an English lender! ng thcicof The entrain of a him 
selected 1 01 viewing b) the Cential Committee will submit at 
bis cost the specified nutiibci of copies of the detailed dialogue 
siiipt in Fnglish 01 Hindi as well as the publicity material 
j riming tbeietii 111 addition to the print anti synopsis of the 
film. 

1 I he Government of India have derided in pursuance oE 
utle li ol the Rales coiitcuung the State A wauls foi Films that 
the length of a rhihhen's film shall not exceed 8,000 feet m 
:n miu 01 3,200 feet in 16 mm foi the purpose of entry for 
the Awards, 


D. R. KIIANNA, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 281 h Ron. 1959 

No. LRII/3(80)/58.— The billowing decision of Slni Salim 
M. Mnchant, Central GovcinmcuL Industrial Tribunal, 
lllianbad, in irspeci of the matter leferred to him under sec- 
tion ,'KiA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) by 
the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of , 
Labour & Employment No. SO. 2289, dated the 18th October, 
1958 ns modified by the corrigendum No. S.O. 642, dated the 
IlLli Match 1959 .seeking the tovrect interpretation of the 
Awaid of Lhe All India Industrial Tribunal (Collieiy Dis- 
putes) in icgard lo the payment of clearness allowance on 
load and lift wages in lcsperr of the workmen employed in 
the collieries in Assam, is hereby published for general inhu- 
mation 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
IRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

Reference No. 59 or 1958 
Parties: 

Employers in relation to certain Coal Mines in the State of 
Orissa and their woikmen, as mentioned in Government of 
India, Order No. S.O. 2289, dated 18th October 1958 published 
m the Ca /cue of India, Part II, Section 3 (ii) dated 1st 
November, 1958 at page 2156 as amended by notification No. 
LR.II /3 (30)/58, dated 11th Maich 1959. 

Re: In the matter of a reference under Section 36A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act 1947 and in the matter of interpreta- 
tion of the awaid of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Col- 
liery Disputes) dated 26(h May, 1956 as modified by the deci- 
sion of the Labour Appellate Tiibunal of India dated 29th 
January, 1957. 



264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 5, 1 959/AC. RAHAYANA 14, 1881 


[Part I— Seq. I 


Dhanbad. dated the lith November 1959 
Present : 

Sliri Salim M, Merchant, B.A.LL.B,, Pied ding Office t. 
Arrearages: 

Sliri Kami Molita, General Secretary, Indian National Coal 
Mine Workrrs Federation, for the workmen concerned. 

Sliri E. P. Patckli, Labour Adviser, Killlck Industries 
Limited,' for the Klngir Rampur Coal. Co. Ltd. 

Shri K. P. Mookerjee, Secrctaty, Bharat Manufacturers, 
Traders and Dealers Association with Sliri Vidhu Sekhar, 
Chief Executive Officer, for Orient Colliery. 

Shri K. Shan.mghavcl, Labour Officer, Talcher Colliery, for 
the Talcher and Doujbera Collieries of the National Coal 
Development Corporation (Private) Limited. 

SrAiK ORISSA Industrv: COAL 

DECISION 

Bv the following Order No. LR-II-3 (30)/58, daLed lHth 
October 1958 the Central Government in exercise of the 
powers conferred bv Section 36A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1 017 (XIV of 47), was pleased to iefcr tills mater to me 
for decision: — 

Dated New Delhi the lfilh October 1958. 

Order 

S.O VVbeieas an industrial dispute between the eni- 

ploveis in relation to tertain coal mines and their workmen 
was leterrrd lor adjudication to the All India ludustnal 
Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) and its award was published m 
the Gazette of India extraordinary Part II, Section S dated the 
offth May 19511 vide SR.O 1224 dated the 18th May 1956; 

\nd wild r.u in the npimon of the Central Government a 
ilnnbr his arisen as to the* mitcit inlet pi elation of paragraph 
I, i, 'I ot tlu so ill IV. ltd on (lie Iiueslioti specified in tin sche- 
dule inn do annexed; 

Now, tlieiefot e, in exercise of the powers confer! ed by 
Scttlon 36A ol the Industtl.il Disputes Att I H7 t IT of -47), 
the Central Government hereby refers the said question for 
decision to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constitute! 
under Section 7 A of the said Act. 

SUIEJITtLl 

“Whether the dearness allowance is payable on load and 
life wages in regard to the workmen employed m the toL 
lieiies in Orissa." 

<> i] non teceipt of the older, notices were issued upon the 
pai ties P nmn tinned in the said outer lor filing their wri ten 
statements. A written statement dated -0th November, 1958 
wa received hom the General Secretary, Ramput colliery Mar- 
.t. or Gnntness The llinglr Rampur Coal Co. Ltd. files its writ 
ten * statement dated 26th December. 1958 on 29th December. 
1958 and the Orient Colliery through 

cer hied its wiltien statement dated /th January, Way o 
( 1 , 1 .' Imuarv 1959 Both these written statements on behalf 

0 the cmplVers pointed out that reference to para 663 of the 
kwud of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) 
m tlie Government Order of reference dated 18th October. 1958 
was'itr correct as that paragraph of the Award did not de 
wiLh the question of lead and lift wages at all. ft appears 
Miat thereupon the union applied to Government suitably to 
amen l the order of reference and thereafter by corrigendum 
No LR.II/3(30)/58 dated 11th March 1959 < t''e Gmxrcnne , n 

hi Tlovember !' 1958 .Te^dele ted' 1 ^ ' After' 'this ^corri gen del m was 
issued the parties were directed to file £resh ,^ r ’ tte ? 
ments and thereafter written statements on behalf of the work- 
c j. chri it anti Mehta Crucial Secretary, Indian National 
Mine Worker's^ '.hted 29th April 1959 was received 

on °nd Mav 1959 On behalf of the employers also fresh 
written statements were received. The Assistant Superintendent 

01 Coiliciics, Talcher, who is AgcnL under the Mit es Act 1 *5- 
of the Talcher and Deulbei a Collieries situate In the state of 
Orissa of the National Coal Development Corporation (Private) 
ltd in his written statement dated 18th May, 1959 stated 

so far no occasion has arisen for the payment of lead and hit 
wiccs in those collieries and as such there was no dispute re- 
gtrding the interpretation of the Majumdar Award in TC, P e « 
of fhe^quesUou whether clearness allowance is payable on lead 
and lif^ wages In its written statement lie has further stated 
that if in future any occasion arises for paymeiit of lead and 
lift wages the award of the All India fndusinal Tribunal (Col- 
ieiv Disputes) as modified bv the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal, would he followed I may as well at this 
state that Shri Shanmughavel, Lite Labour Oflicel loi the 
Tdchar and Denlbera Collieries of the National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation (Private) Ltd, at the heating further su ed 
ha in its written statement hefo.c the Coal Arbitrator the 
Corporation had admitted that in its other collieries outside 
OriT Stale separate dearness allowance at the rate of 150 - 0 
n sheing paidtin the lead and lift wages. The H.ngtr Bam- 
DUI- Goal Co Ltd., hied its firsh written statement dated — ncl 
M.iv 1959 on 25th Alar 1959 and a written statement was 


also received fiom the Chief Executive Officer for Oitent Gol- 
lieries which is owned by Central India Coal Fields Ltd. I here- 
after, tiiis leleicnce at the request of the parties was heard 
at Calcutta on 18th and 19th September, 1959. 

3. At the outset it is nctessaiy to dispose of certain prelimi- 
nary objections uiged by the employers against the piesent 
rrfetcnce. The Orient Colliery in its written statement lias 
uiged that its wotkmen had not raised any dispute, doubt 
oi difficulty with regaid to the cpieslion undel refeieuce viz 
whether clearness allowance is payable on lead and lilt wages, 
and therefore the present Government order of reference is 
ultui uire? ol the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, In mv 
opinion, under Section 36A it is not aL ail necessary that a 
dispute should arise between the employeis and his 

woikmen. The doubt ot difficulty is Lu lie that ot the 
Government, because under the Industrial Disputes Act. it is 
Government who has to eulorie Lhe Awaid. What is material 
is the opinion of the Government, that a doubt or 

difficulty had inis.n with tegard to the conect iuteiptctntion 

ot any provisions of an Award. Para 2 of Ltie ordei of refe- 

rence heiein deal lv rec ites that in the opinion of the Ccntial 
Government a doubt has arisen as to the conect interpretation 
of the award on the question of whether dearness allowance 
is payable cm lead and lift wages, to the workmen employee] 
in the Collieries in Orissa, and It would nol he for the 
Tribunal to question thaL opinion. As it is cleat fiom the 
notification that Government feels a doubt or difficulty with 
legatd to the collect interpretation of the piovisions of the 
Award n lating to payment of dearness allowance on lead and 
lift wages, and as government wants to use ei lam what 

is the unicct inteipietation of the Awaid on this 
point, this refer nee m my opinion is valid and piopcr It 
may. however, he staled that it is not denied bv Hingl 
Ramput Coal Co. I tel., that its workmen had c.aitned pay- 
ment of sepaiale dearness allowance on lead and lift wages 
under the terms of the Majumdar Award applicable to the 
collieries in Orissa That dispute was referred to conciliation 
hut conciliation resulted in failure and the conciliation 
loiwarded his failure report to Government. This would 
establish that Government had applied its mind to the dnet- 
lions contained in the Award and as in the opinion of the 
Genual Government there is a doubt as to the correct inter- 
pictaticm of the Awaid on tills point it was competent lot 
i 1 undei Set lion 86 A of the Alt to refer the question to a 
lrihim.il tor the lonect imeipretation of the Award of the 
Tribunal I. thriefore, reject this contention and hold trial 
the iusrant refeicncc is valitl under Section 36V of the Art 
and I have jurisdiction to entertain the same 

4. The next legal objection urged bv Shri Mookerjee was 
that as according to him the question of payment of dearness 
allowance on lead ancj lift was not covered by the terms of the 
lefeience made by the Ccntial Government to the All India 
Industrial Ttibunal (Colliery Disputes), the Government had 
no jurisdiction to refer for interpretation an issue which not 
covered by the original order of lcfercnce, In this connection, 
Shri Mookerjee refened to the matters stated in Schedule 
II to the Government Order of teference, referring the coal 
dispute to the All India Jndustrial Tribunal (Colliery Dis- 
putes). That schedule specifies 7 items of dispute, Sliri 
Mookerjee has refened to item No. 2 in Schedule fi, in which 
the dispute specified was, "Inclusion of pay for lead and/or 
lift in wanes for calculation of bonus and provident fund", 
ills point was that as under Hern No. 2, the demand with re- 
gard to the lead and lift was confined only to its being treated 
as wages for calculation of bonus and ptovident fund, there 
was no dispute with leg.nd to the claim for payment of dear- 
ness allowance on lead and lift wages. But, as rightlv pointed 
oul by Shri Kanti Melita the question of the rate of payment 
of lead and lift, and whether dearness allowance should be 
paid on lead and life wages was covered by item 1 to the 
Schedule II which dealt with the general question of wages 
in the Coal Industry and which was in the following terms:— 

“Wages of all categories of wcnkcTs employed in coal 

mines, including in paiticular the following matters:— 

(1) grading; 

(ii) standardisation; 

(iii) equal wages lot men and women for equal vvoih: and 

(iv) the wages of:— 

(a) time-rated trammers; 

(b) raineis other than galleiy-Iaced pick miners; 

id woikeis engaged in stone-cutting and dressing, and 

(d) other unskilled workeis, male and female. 

The itrst item of dispute thus coveted the question of all 
payments made Lu mine workers including the payment for 
lead and lift and whether dearness allowance should he paid 
on wages earned bv way of lead and lift. Etorn even a cur- 
sory pciusal of the Majurhdai Award it is quite clear that the 
question of payment of lead and lift wages and whether dear- 
ness allowance should he paid theicon or not, was treated by 
all parties before the Majumdar tribunal as being covered bv 
i Lem 1 in Schedule II to the Order of Reference and as 1 
shall presently point out, there are several paragraphs of the 
Majumdar Award which make this position quiLe dear, I 
would, therefore, reject this legal objection, which was also 
urged mi behalf of the Hingir Rampur Coal Co. ltd. 



Part I— Seo 1] 


THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


265 


5 Sim F P Parekh ful the Hingir Ram pur Coal Co Ltd 
li»s lugeil that the reference of interpretation to this T ubunal 
midci Set 3b4 is not valid 01 legal as this Tribund ivas not 
a Munbti of the Majumdn Tribunal I mai however state 
that I was out of the memheis of the Special Bench of the 
labour Appellile Tnlmnil wlnih hcaiil the appeals fiom the 
Awaid of the 1)1 Indi 1 Industrial Iiihunal (Collien Dispuitev) 
and the awaid rhat is enfoiced is the awnd as modified bv 
the decision of the Special Bench labour \ppcllau fubunal 
ot which I wax i Member But quid ipart fiom tins fict I 
ain of the opinion that multi Set l()\ it is not at all nece 
ssaty rh it the Intel piet itjon of iny prevision of an award 01 
settlement of which rhcie is iny dlfhi ultv or doubt tan only 
be referred to the Tiibuml that made the onginal awaid Sec 
tioji 30 A (1) is as follows 36 4 (1) If m the opinion of the 
appropriate Government in \ diffii ulty or doubt irises 
a> to Lhc llllcipret tlion of any provision ot an an ud 01 
settlement iL liny icfei the question to such I aboui Couit 
Inlninul 01 National Tiibmial as it may think fit" the 
language of the Section makes It ilcar that the refeience is 
to dc mule to such labour Couit Tribunal oi National Tri- 
bunal as Government thinks it fit ind pioper it should he 
referred to and not netessvrily to the Tribund which made 
the award It must be remembered that often times, as 111 the 
case of the 411 India Industrial Tribunal (( ollieiy Disputes) 
ad hot tribunals ire constituted fui adjudication of a paiti 
culai dispute and after the dispute is heard the Tnhunal 
makes its award and disperses It may be that long aftei 
such a frtlmnil has dispeised and become funclut ofjicto 
doubts and dlfhcultics inly arise vvith regnd to the inttipie 
tation of ifTtain portions of the Award and thereafter it would 
be impossible foi Government to refer foi interpretation the 
doubt 01 difficulty to the original Tribunal which Would 
have disposed by tliem But in the interest of industrial peace 
it may he necessaiy to refer the question of the coirert inter 
nictation of ant piovisums of the Awaid decisions lo another 
Tribunal ft is for this leason that Sc c ',6 4 (1) has been 
framed in such general terms and provides for the Govern 
raent to decide whethci the question of intei pretation should 
lie rcfcired to a I about Court Industnal 01 N ition il rribu 
nal Till these 1 casons this objection also fails mid I hold 
that the present reference is valid and piopci undei see 464 
ef the Act and I have jurisdiction to entertain the same 

6 Before discussing the submissions of the parties on the 
mattei under reference it is fust necessary to explain the 
terms lead and lift which have a special meaning in the coal 
mining industry As stated bv the Majumdar Tribunal "lead 
is the payment made for the distance to be covered by miners 
before they can lead the roll while lift is the payment made 
for c irrylng coal up an incline " 

7 Both parties at the hearing referred to the vinous 
awards prior to the Majumdar Tnbunal concerning the pay 
ment of lead and lift, the fitst of which was the conciliation 
Board Award of 1947 The Government of India bv notifi 
cation No LR 11(78) dated 5tli February 1947, made in ever 
die of the powers conferred by Section S of the Trade Dis- 
putes Act 1929 was plcasid to refer the disputes existing or 
apprehended in the collieries in the Piovinces of Bengal and 
Bihar to a Board of Conciliation for promoting i setikmenl 
thereof The Boaid made its report dated 12th April 1947 and 
it is known as the Gonnlntloii Board 4ward The Board 
dealt with the question of rates for lead and lift and obser- 
ved as follows — 

‘ We are of the opinion that the workers’ claims for uni 
formity in the rates for lift and lead are sound as 
not only will such uniformity provide adequate re 
rompetice for expenditure of energy according to hei 
ght and distance negotiated but will quicken the 111 
centivc of managements to reduce these handicaps to 
the minimum and thus produce beneficial results by 
improved output per man shift (O M S )" 

After making these observations the Board recommended 
as follows — 

"We therefore recommend the following ‘ Basic" scales 

8 Then followed certain scales of payment for lead and 
lift I may pause here and state that the Majumdar Award 
has referred to this recommendation of the Conciliation Board 
iq paia 152 of its award, where it observed — 

1 The Board also suggested standardisation of rates for lead 
and lift and recommended certain basic scales 


9 The Government of India by Resolution No LRU(103) 
Bated 12th May 1947 published the report of the font illation 
Board under Sec 12 of the Trade Disputes Act 1929 and m 
para 8 of that Resolution stated as follows — 

"41though the recommendations of the Conciliation 
Board Award are applicable only to collieries in 
Bengal and Bihar Government recognise that appro 
pnate action would be necessary in respect of coal 
fields in the Central provinces and elsewhere and 
will take necessary action as soon as possible" 

10 It appeals that thereafter certain disputes arose between 
tl)e representatives of the coal industry and labour leaders of 
Bengal and Bilnr Coal fields over the question of proper in 
lerpretation of lhc Conciliation Boaid 4ward The then Chief 


I about Coinmissionei Slut S f Josln was (hcicupon deputed 
to look min the matter and 111 Match 1918 a settlement was 
leached before Mm Josln which is pnpulaiiy known thereafter 
is the Josln Agteemenl" lhe vciy hist calusc of the Jcislii 
Agreement piovided as follows - 

Pavment for lead and lift shall he healed as basic wages 
foi purposes such as dearness allowance 

Fins agrecinmt has been refened to by the Mijumdar T 11 
bund at pau 156 of its 4ward wheic it has ohscived — 

The agreement piovided also for (i) Lhc lieitinenf of 
lead and lilt’ as basic wage foi purposes of dearness 
allowance 

rhe Josln igieement fheiefore governed (he pivment of 
lead and Jiti w igcs in the piovinces of Bengal and Bihar till 
lhe aw "lid nl lhe Majuindai Tiibuinl Cline into Operation on 
.’nib May 19ab 

I] In puisuame ot pat a 8 of its rcsolutlin No LR II 
(103) dated 12th May 1917 leferred to enhet the Government 
d India 111 the Mmisliy ot I abour apjiomtcd a f ict Finding 
Committee 10 lcport on the giant of monetary benefits and 
concessions lo colheiv woikeis in llic, ( ential Piovinces and 
Reiar and in Orissa on lines sinnlai Lo those granted to colli- 
eiy woikers In Bengal and Bihar as a tesult of the recommendi 
lions of th*e Board ot Conciliation (Colliery Disjuues) The 
( P 1 act rinding Committee submitted its report dated 12th 
July 1917 and on the question of lead and lift at para 30 of 
its Report 11 ucoinmended as follows — 

1 r ul and f ift tult \ 

In die bigger well organised toiliencs in C P there aie 
not hinny Instances wheie loaders have to go beyond 
the lcqmsite limit is laid down bv the Boird of Con 
libation to earn lead and lift allowance hut to 
induce owncis to keep the lending point as ncai to 
the ical face is possible and liilligate hardship to the 
li ulci wc suggest 1 I 1 it the Bond of f onrdntion s te 
icunini millions in this lcsput nuy be given dlect to 
m die* CB coal helds also Ibis howcvti should lc 
consideied as an allowance diid not an increase on 
Lhc basic wages 1 

I mav lcpeit heie tli it tlie C P Tict rinding Committee 
report applied to the Hingir Rampur Coil Field in Orissa as 
is noLcd in paidgiaph 191 of the Majunitlai Award 

12 I may heie state that the Mute of Onssa contains two 
coal fields namely Hingn Rampui Coil Fields and the Tal 
chcr Coal Held Prim to the Majumdar Awaid the collieries 
in Hingir Rampm coal fields were governed bv the CP Fact 
Finding Committee’s lcport and lot the Fafchei area, the 
wages and dearness allowance and othci benefits were fixed by 
the Government of India Resolution No I RII 1123) dated 
30th Januaty 1948 The icasonableness of the w'ages was raised 
by the company and was consideied bv the Talcher Award 
dated 25th May 1949 which confirmed the recommendations 
contained in lhc Government of India Resolution (Sec Para 
188 of the Majumdar Awaid) The Government Resolution 
had stated with Tcgard to the lead and lift that its rates for 
the Talchei Coal field will be the same as elscwhcte 

13 To summaiise the position befoie the Majunultr Fu- 
bunal made its award cm 2bth May 195b was that foi the 
colhenes m the Provinces of Bengal and Bill 11 undei lhc 
Conciliation Board Awaid ind the Josln Agreement the leid 
and lift payments weie to be treated as basic wages for tlie 
purposes such as dearness allowance whilst undei ihe CP 
Ftct Finding Committee lepoit though the rates for Jrad and 
lift were to be the same as recommended by Conciliation 
Board Award for Bengal and Bibar they were however to lie 
considered as an allowance and not an' increase on the basic 
wages 

14 I shall now proceed to tefci to the duettions contained 
in the Majumdar Award and the decision of t he Labour Appe- 
llate Tribunal relating to the payment of lead anil lift The 
question of payment for "lead and lift” in the coal fields 
of Bengal and Bihar has been dealt with at pam 605 of the 
Majumdar Award which is as follows — 

‘605 Lead and lift — \s already stated 111 aiuatliu f hap 
ter on the existing wngc structure the workers are 
lid m allowance for 'lead and lift on lhc rates fixed 
y the Com illation Board Award lliese payments 
ire made with a view to compensating the workman 
for the additional time spent in carrying a load which 
tunc otherwise could have been spent on loading 
more coal The workload fixed by us does not take 
into account the factor of 'lead and lift This has 
to be done and for this purpose the lead and lift 
hive to he Included in the wiges of the workman for 
pm poses of determining the deal ness allowance pio 
vulcnl fund etc lhe question now is whether an in 
crcise in these latcs is necessary When tlie wages 
for cutting and loading are raised the natural corollary 
thereto would be that these rates should be increased 
Wc hive assumed that at the time of fixing ihesi 
laics tlie Conciliation Boaid \ward took into account 
the relation between the cutting and loading and the 
lead and lift' wlnih may be taken as approximately 



266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 5, 1959/AGRAHAYANA 14, 1881 


[Part I— Sec. 1 


correct. In the ciicumstances, we direct that the exis- 
ting basic wages for ‘lead and lift’ be increased by 33- 
1/3 per cent It tnay be noted that this increase 
would compensate the worker for the additional 
workload on the one side and would be a disincen- 
tive for the management to unnecessarily add to the 
‘lead and lift.’ ” 

1 may here point out that these observations and directions 
were made by the Majumdar Tribunal when dealing with the 
first item of demand under Schedule II to the Got eminent 
order of reference to it which related to “wages of all catego- 
lies of workeis employed in the coal mines 

13. With regard to the payment for lead and lift for the 
collieries in Orissa, the Majumdar Tribunal in para 666 of its 
award directed as follows:— 

“666. The basic rates for lead and lift will be the same that 
we have awarded for Bengal and Bihar.” 

16. This has clearly reference to the observations and direc- 
tions contained in para 605 of its award relating to payment 
ot lead and lift in the collieries in Bengal and Bihar. 

17. In dealing with the item No. 2 in Schedule II to the 
order of leference which related to “inclusion of pay for lead 
and/or lift in wages for calculation of bonus and provident 
fund” the Majumdar Tribunal in para 818 of its Award ob- 
served and directed as follows:— 

“We find 1 in Bengal and Bihar, at anv late after the Joshi 
Agreement, the payments foi lead anti lift are treat- 
ed as basic wages for pm poses such as dearness 
allowance. As these payments aie madejto the miners 
for the extra and additional work they have to do. 
we give a general direction that these payments should 
be treated as basic wages for calculation of bonus and 
provident fund.” 

18. As stated earlier, from the Majumdar Awaid there wete 
appeals to the Labour- Appellate Tribunal of India before 
whom on the question of “lead and lift” it was urged bv the 
workmen that lead and lift payments should be treated sepa- 
i.itely from the normal basic wages of a woikm for the put- 
poses of dearness allowance t.e. tint there should lie a sepa 
rate dearness allowance paid on the earnings by way of lead 
and lift payments. The Labour Appellate Tribunal by Para 
193 of its decision rejected this demand and observed.— 

193. “At the hearing of the appeals befoie us it was utged 
by a section of workmen that ‘lead and lift’ should 
be treated separately ftom the normal basic wages 
of a woiker for the purpose of dearness allowance 
This does not appear to have been taised in the 
Memorandum of appeal of any of the Unions and we 
do not see any justification for it. We are unable to 
allow the claim.” 

19. I may state that in paia 190 of its decision the labour 
Appellate Tribunal had summed up the directions of the 
Majumdar Tribunal with regard to the payment of lead and 
lift in the following terms:— 

“The Tiibntial has increased the pre award rates bv 3 ’>- 
1/3 per cent and has directed t fiat such payment 
shall be part of the basic pav and shall count for 
Dearness allowance, provident fund and bonus.” 

20. Before dealing with the aigumenls urged by both parties 
I must make it dear that under this leference mv task is con- 
fined to ascertaining as to what in the correct interpretation 
of the direction contained in the Majumdar Award on the 
issue under reference viz. whethei dearness allowance is pay- 
able on lead and lift wages in regaid to the woikmen emploved 
in the collieries in Orissa. In a reference under Section 36A, 
it is not the function of the Tribunal to adjudicate upon the 
merits of any particular demand or its justification. That 
would be a matter for the Tribunal in a reference under Sec 
10 of the Act. A Tribunal functioning on a reference under 
Sec. 36A has only to interpret the award as made and must 
guard against attempting to re-adjudicate on the merits or 
justification of a particular demand. 

21. Shri Kanti Mehta for the unions, in his written state- 
ment dated 29th April 1959 and in his arguments before me 
has urged that under the directions of the Majumdar Award 
the prescribed rate of lead and lift was onlv basic rates and 
that dearness allowance was to be separately paid over the 
same at the late of 150 per cent with efftet from 26th Mav 
1956 the date on which the Majumdar Award came into force 
In support, he argued (1) that the Majumdar Tribunal has 
awarded the same and uniform rates of basic pay, dearness 
allowance, lead and life etc, for collieries in Orissa as for 
those in Bengal and Bihar, and that as the rate of lead and 
lift under the award is only basic rate for the purposes of 
dearness allowance, quaiterly bonus and provident fund, as 
far as the collieries in Orissa are concerned, the rate of lead 
and lift as provided in the award is only basic pay and as such 
deal ness allowance is separately payable on the lead and lift 
wages, even if the same was denied before the Majumdar 
Award (2) that it would lead to absurdity and would be 
against the language and spirit of the Majumdar Award to 
suggest that the provision of lead and lift in Bengal and 


Bihar was to be considered as basic pav and in Orissa as con- 
solidated one ot to suggest something different from what is 
theie in Bengal and Bihar since the whole award on ‘lead and 
lift for collieries in Otissa was based on the Conciliation 
Board’s awaVd and the provisions of the Coal Award in res- 
pect of Bengal and Bihar; (3) that it is inconceivable that the 
1 ribunal intended to give for ‘lead and lift’ something les* 
than the existing emoluments as the employers’ interpretation 
seeks to suggest for the collieries in Orissa, In this connection, 
Shn Mchla has filed a statement showing what would be rhe 
position bv wav ot difference m lotal emoluments on lead and 
lift if no dearness allowance is paid after the award. The 
statement is as follows:— 


“Difference in total emoluments on ‘lead and lift’ if no 
dearness allowance is paid afler the Awaid. 


Lead Basic 

As. 

D.A. 

As. P. 

Total 

As.P. 

Basic Post aw ard 

o to 50' 

I 

I — 6 

2 — 6 

-/i/-plus 33 -i/3%- , L / 4 

50' to too' 

3 

4-6 

7-6 

-/3/-plus 33-i/3%-''4(- 

IOO' to 150 

' 5 

7-6 

and 

12 — 6 

•0 on 

-/5/-plus 33-I/3%-/6/8. 


The same applicable to lift rates.” 

I mav make it clear that the chart filed by Shri Mehta refer* 
to what was paid in Bengal and Biliar prior to Majumdar 
A waul 

22 In oulei to appieciate Mm U'hta’s contention, it is 
necessai io 'tale the scheme of deal ’_ss alio" ance prescribed 
]>v the Majumdar. Awaid as > lodified bv the decision of the 
I about Vjjpeliale tribunal That Scheme of dearness alio 
waucc appears m the chait at Paia 69 of the Labour Appe 
lla'c tribunal's decision Ibis scheme of dearness allowance 
is eoplitible not only to col'.enes in Bengal and Bihar and 
Madhya 1’ialesh but also to the collienes in Orissa, HvdeiabaJ 
an I \indh’a Piadesh. as slated m para 256 of the Labour 
\uoeltatc liib'inal’s decision Nov under this scheme of 
dearness allowance tire late of clearness allowance is 150 per 
cent ol lh» basic wage uptil P.s 12 6 pel day and the per- 
centage taie goes down theteafter till the basic wave of Rs. 1- 
118 p.o da* is reached, on which the deainc,, allowance at 
the rat'’ of 100 per cent is also Rs l 11-8 According to Shri 
Mchtt the h'sci and life wages should not be consolidated in 
1) ‘c wag” which would if consolidated cam Ihe ia<o of 
clcanitNS allowance applicable to the consolidated amount of 
basic wages and lead and lift wages, but that the deal ness 
allowance should be separately calculated on the basic earn- 
ings In wav of lead and hfl which would virtually mean that 
(he loadeis would he entitled lo dearness at the rate of 150 
pc 1 ' rent on the lead and lift wages 

23 Shri F Parekh and Shii K. P Mookerjee, for ihe Hingir 
Rampnt (nal Co, I id and Oucn( Colliery respectively, have 
i died on the directions contained in paragraph 190 and 193 
of the I ahour Appellate Tribunal’s decision wheie the demand 
lor Healing lead and lift earnings separately from the normal 
basic wages for (be purposes of dearness allowance was rejec- 
ted and l hey have argued that that question cannot now be 
tc opened in any proceedings undei Section 36A of the Act, 
Shii Kanli Mehta, has. however, argued that the Labour Appe- 
llate Tribunal had not gone into the merits of the demand 
for Heating lead and lift earnings separately for dearness 
allowance as it held that point had not been laised in the 
memoianda of appeals of the workmen and he has argued 
that the words “and we do not see anv justification for it” 
appearing in para 193 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal’s 
decision should not be deemed to be a rejection of the demand 
on its merits There is no doubt that the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal did not entertain this claim in the appeals because 
it held that it had no jurisdiction to do so because none of 
the Unions had raised their claim in their Memoranda of 
appeals and there is nothing to show that the matter was dis- 
cussed on its merits before it The words, “we do not see 
anv justification for it”, can onlv mean that the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal saw no justification for allowing that 
point to be urged before it. the same not having been raised 
bv the union in their memoranda of appeals. However, the 
facl that at least a Section of the workmen had in appeal 
urged that lead and lift should be treated separately from 
Ihe normal basic wages of a worker for the purposes of cal- 
culating dearness allowance suggests that at least a section of 
the workmen understood that the Majumdar Award had not 

' directed that lead and lift should be treated separately from 
the normal basic wages of a worker for the purposes of 
dearness allowance. Having regard to the direction, “the lead 
and lift wages have to be included in the wages of the work- 
men for the purposes of determining dearness allowance, pro- 
vident fund etc.” contained in para 506 of the Award, it is 
clear that the Majumdar Award had meant that lead and lift 
wages are to be consolidated into the basic wages for the pur- 
poses of calculating dearness allowance and ate not to be 
treated as carrying a separate dearness allowance. If the lead 
and lift wages were to carry separate dearness allowance the 
words "included in the wages” would not have been used. 



24. But the question referred for Interpretation to this Tri 
bunal is "whether the dearness allowance is payable on lead 
and lift wages in regard to the workmen employed in the 
collieries in Orissa ” 

25 For the employers it Is argued particularly by Shn 
Parekh, that the Majumdar Award never intended at least 
for Orissa that lead and lift rates should be part of basic 
wages He has In this connection refeired Lo the observations 
of C P Fact Finding Committee repoit at para 30 of its report 
where it was directed that lead and lift rates should be treated 
as an allowance unlike the dncctlon contained in the Concilia 
tlon Board Award applicable to Bengal and Bihar wheie the 
lead and lift allowance was to be tieated as part of the 
basic wages Tt is no doubt true that in the C P Tact Find 

ing Committee's report lead and lift was not treated as part 

of basic wage but was to be UeaLed as an allowance But lie 
are not concerned m this reference with what the C P I act 
Finding Committee’s repoit had recommended In this refe- 
rence what we have to consider is the directions of the Majum- 
dar Award as applicable to collieries in Orissa and the ques- 
tion is wlicthci dearness allowance is payable on lead and 

lift wages In my opinion in this reference the point that 

has to be decided is in respect of the directions contained 
mainly in para 666 read with para 605 of the Award In sec- 
tion V of the Majumdai Award which deal with the collieries 
in Orissa, at paia 666 it is directed as follows — 

“The basic rates for lead and lift will be the same that 
we have awarded for Bengal and Bihar ” 

Now, the directions with regard to the lead and lift In Bengal 
and Bihar as I have pointed out earlier are stated in para 
605 I have already extracted that paragraph In full above 
In my opinion the material part of that para for the purposes 
of the present reference is — 

"The work load fixed by us does not take into account 
the fact of lead and lift This had to be done and 
fpr this purpose the load and lift have to be Included 
in the wages of the workmen for the purpose of 
determining dearness allowance, provident fund etc " 
(Undci lining mine) 

Now, these directions in my opinion also apply to the collie- 
ries in Orissa in terms of what is stated in para 666 of the 
Award Thcrefoie, even In Orissa the lead and lift earnings 
have to be included in the wages of the workmen for the pur 
pose ot determining the dearness allowance provident fund 
etc It is thus deal that even In Orissa the lead and lift earn 
ings are not to be treated merely as an allowance The words 
“basic rates” appeanng in para 666 also make this abundantly 
clear Shn Parekh has argued that lead and lift earnings are 
not to be part of basic wages because if it were so then it 
would ipso facto carry with It the benefit of provident fund 
and bonus and there was no need for making a separate 
demand that lead and lift earnings should be treated as basic 
wages for ptovidcnt fund and bonus Shn Parekh h is aigued 
that because the words 'basic rates' have been used in para 606 
of the Majumdar Award whilst the woids ’basic wages' have 
been used in para 605 of the award, it shows that the Tribu 
nal meant that in Orissa the lead and lift earnings were to be 
treated as an allowance whilst In Bengal they Were to be trea- 
ted as basic wages But it must be noticed that in para 605 
the term ‘allowance’ has also been used and also the word 


'Tates In my opinion the fact that die words "basic wages” 
have been used m para 666 shows that the lead and lift 
earnings are to be treated as basic wages In my opinion 
the Tribunal has directed even for the collieries in Orissa that 
the lead and lift earnings are to be treated as basic wages and 
to be consolidated in the basic wages for the purposes of dear- 
ness allowance Thai this was so meant is dear from what 
the Laboui Appellate Tribunal has stated in para 190 of ns 
decision where it observed — 

"The Tribunal has increased the pre award rates by 33 1/3 
per tent and has directed that such payments shall be 
part ot the basic pay and shall count for dearness 
allowanie provident fund and bonus” 

This read together with the directions contained in para 256 
of the said decision, make it quite clear that no difference was 
intended to be made in the matter of treating lead and lift 
earnings as basic wages in Bengal and Bihar and in Orissa and 
other States 

26 In my opinion, the Majumdar Award as modified by 
the Laboui Appellate Tribunal decision did not mean to make 
any difference in the method of payment ot dearness allowance 
on lead and lift payments as directed by it in Bengal and 
Bihar under para 605 and under para 666 for Orissa The 
fundamental fact must be remembered that Majumdar Tiibu 
nal bad by its award sought to bring about a umfoimity In 
the wage structure m the collieries m all the States Tills 
is clear from Lhe observations contained in para 618 of the 
Award where the Tribunal has observed — 

"The workmen do not want any distinction to be made 
between one State and another, though in the case 
of Assam they have pleaded for the retention of the 
existing differentials." 

This was so because, as observed by it in para 619, It was 
fixing minimum wages for the lpwest categories of workmen. 

27. After an anxious consideration of the directions con- 
tained in the Majumdar Award and the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal and the submissions of the paities, I ans- 
wer the reference as follows — 

That dearness allowance is payable on lead and lift wages 
in regard to the workmen employed In the collieries 
in Orissa but the lead and lift wages are to be con- 
solidated in the basic wages for the purpose of cal 
dilating the dearness allowance payable at rates 
resenbed by para 69 of the Labour Appellate Iri 
unal's decision. 

28 I, therefore, give my decision as stated above and the 
same is submitted to Government 

Salim M Mfrchant, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal Dhanbad 
Dhanbad 

14 th November, 1959 


P R NAYAR, 
Under Secretary. 



