m&NTRAl SECRETARIAT LIBRARY 

’ REGISTERED No. D. 222 v ' tyf 


of Enbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 251 NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JUNE 19, 1954 


®ie ©alette 



NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 12th 
June 1954 : — 


iaue 

No. and date 

j Issued by 

Subject 


S. R. O. 1862, dated the 1 
7th June 1954. 

Ministry of 

Transport. 

Appointment of a Se amen's Employ- 
ment Board at the port of Bombay. 

129 

S. R. O. 1863, dated the 
20th May 1954- 

Election Com 
mission, India. 

Election Petition No, 1 of 1953- 

130 

S, R. O. 1944, dated the 
25th May 1954. 

Ministry of 

Labour. 

Award of the Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta in the dispute between the 
Bombay Life Assurance Co. Ltd 
Bombay and thcli workmen. 

1 

S. R. O. 1945. dated the 
25th May 1954. 

1 

Ditto. 

! 

J 

Award of the Industrial Tribunal, 
Delhi in the dispute between the 
Punjab National Bank Limited and 
their workmen- 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi , the 12 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1950. — It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica- 
tions under clause (c) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below, as notified under notification No. CG-CS/54(1)BL, dated the 
26th May, 1954, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of 

C 1503 ) 





1504 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Paht II — Sec. 3 


the powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act 
respectively; — 

Brigadier Cheppudira Ponnappa, 

Athithope Estate, 

Siddapur, Coorg. 


[No. CG-CS/54(2)BL.] 

New Delhi, the 15th June 1964 

S-R.O. 1951. — It is hereby notified for general information that the disquali- 
fications under clause (c) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1961 (XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and 
address are given below, as notified under notification No. MD-CS/54(1)/BL, 
dated the 21st May, 1954, have been removed by the Election Commission in 
exercise of the powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the 
said Act respectively: — 

Shri K. R. Karanth, Advocate, Mangalore — 3, Madras State. 

fNo. MD-CS/54(2)/BL/11395.] 
By Order, 

P. N. SHINGHAL, Ser 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi , the 12 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1952. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 29t 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further 
amendments shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Law No. S.R.O. 215, dated the 9th February, 1962, relating to the 
execution of contracts and assurances of property in the exercise of the executive.! 
powers of the Union, namely: — 

In Part IV of the said notification— 

(1) Under Heading ‘E’, in item 9, after the words “or the Joint Secretary”, 

the words “or the Deputy Secretary" shall be inserted, 

(2) Under Heading ‘L\ after the words " Brigadiers Ordnance, Command 

Headquarters r, the words ‘‘Colonels, Army Ordnance Corps, Chief 
Ordnawe Officers, Ordnance Officers, Deputy Commandants of Ord- 
nance Depots", shall be inserted. 


[No. F.32-III/52-L.] 


New Delhi, the 15 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1953. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 1 of Order XXVII 
in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), the. 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendment 
shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Law No. S.R.O. 1651, dated the 1st September, 1953, relating to the appoint- 
ment of officers to sign and/or verify plaints and written statements in suits 
in any court of civil jurisdiction by or against the Central Government, 
namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, in Part XVII, after the entry 
“Development Commissioner, Kandla”, the entry “Secretary to the Develop- 
ment Commissioner. Kandla’’ shall be inserted. 

[No. F.25-1/53-L] 


S.R.O. 1954. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 1 of Order XXVII 
in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendment 
shall be made in the notification of the Government of India In the Ministry 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1505 


of Law No. S.R.O. 1851, dated the 1st September, 1953, relating to the appoint- 
ment of officers to sign and, or verify plaints and written statements in suits 
in any court of civil jurisdiction by or against the Central Government, 
namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, in Part III, Ministry of Communi- 
cations, under the heading “Government of India Overseas Communications 
Service”, for the entries “General Manager”, “Assistant General Manager”, and 
“General Traffic Manager”, the entries “Director-General”, "Director (Admin- 
istration)”, and “Deputy Director-General (Traffic)” shall respectively be 
substituted. 

[No. F.25-1/53-L.] 
B. N. LOKUR, Joint Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 10th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1955, — Whereas arrangements have been made with the Government of 
the Federation of Malaya for taking the evidence of witnesses residing in the 
Federation of Malaya in relation to criminal matters in courts of India, the Central 
Government, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 504 of the Code of Criminal 
dure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), hereby directs that commissions from courts 
India for the examination of witnesses in the Federation of Malaya shall be 
led in the form annexed hereto, to the Chief Justice of the Federation of Malaya 
j that such commissions shall be sent to the Chief Secretary to the Government 
the Federation of Malaya for transmission to the Chief Justice of the Federation 
j 1 ! Malaya. 

In the Court or 

Commission to examine witness outside India [Section 504(3)] of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Code. 1B98). 

To 

The Chief Justice of the Federation of Malaya. 

Whereas it appears to me that the evidence of 
is necessary for the ends of justice in case No, 

Va, in the Court of and that such witness 

is residing within the local limits of your jurisdiction and his attendance cannot 
be procured without an amount of unreasonable delay, expense or inconvenience, 
I have the honour to request and 

do hereby request that for the reasons aforesaid and for the assistance of the said 
Court you will be pleased to summon the said witness to attend at such time 
and place as you shall appoint and that you will cause such witness to be examined 
upon the interrogatories which accompany this commission (for viva voce). 

Any party to the proceedings may appear before you by Pleader or if not in 
custody, in person, and may examine, cross examine or re-examine (as the case 
may be) the said witness. 

And I further have the honour to request that you will be pleased to cause 
the answers of the said witness to be reduced into writing and all books, letters, 
papers, and documents produced upon such examination to be duly marked for 
identification and that you will be further pleased to authenticate such examina- 
tion by your official seal (if any) and by your signature and to return the same 
together with this commission to the undersigned through the Chief Secretary 
to the Government of the Federation of Malaya. 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this day of 

19 

Judge 

District Magistrate 

Presidency Magistrate. 

[No. 110/51-Judl.] 
M. GOPAL MENON, Dy. Secy. 



1506 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


New Delhi, the 10 th June 1954 

S.E.O. 1956. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 17 and 27 of the 
Indian Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following further amendment shall be made in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, 
namely: — 

In the Table set forth in Schedule VII to the said Rules after item (9) and 
the entry relating to the Saurashtra Gram Rakshak Dal, the following item and 
entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


(i) 


(ii) 


“(10) Such licencees of West Ben- 
gal as are issued arms 
licences and are supplied 
with arms by the State Gov- 
ernment under the Village 
Resistance Parties Scheme. 


Such arms as are supplied by the 
State Government and such 
ammunition as is purchased 
by the licencees concerned.” 


[No. 9/22/54-Police (I).] 


New Delhi, the 15 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1957. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27, of the India 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government hereby exempts the Ner 
Government armed escorts accompanying Captain Manbahadur Saha proceed! 
with Nepal Government treasure, from Kathmandu to Gauriphanta via Raxa 
and returning via Nepalganj, from all the prohibitions and directions contained 1 . 
the said Act in respect of the following arms and ammunition, namely: — 

(1) One -33 bore revolver No. 5009 with seventeen cartridges. 

(2) Two stenguns Nos. 65507 and 83620 with two hundred and sixteen 

cartridges. 

(3) Thirteen '.303 bore short rifles Nos. 562, 4537, 2952, 3103, 12934, 12381, 

33035, 35257, 13393, 3599, 30229, 6138 and 2068 with two hundred and 
sixty cartridges. 


[No. 9/35/54-Police ( I) . ] 

S.R.O. 1958. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 and clause (1) of article 
243 of the Constitution and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs, No. 29/l/49-Police(l), dated the 14th May, 
1949, the President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioners of the States of 
Delhi, Ajmer, Coorg and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands shall, subject to the 
control of the President and until further orders, discharge the functions of the 
Central Government under section 7 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908 (VI 
of 1908), in their respective States. 


[No. 25/l/54-Police(l).] 
N. SAHGAL, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 11 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1959. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
read with articles 313 and 372 of the Constitution and paragraph 19 of the Adapta- 
tion of Laws Order, 1950, and after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor 
General as required by clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, the President 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in The Civil 
Services Regulations, namely: — 

To article 531-B of the. said Regulations, the following Explanation shall be 
added, namely: — 

“Explanation.— For the purposes of clause (a) of this Article, the expression 
“the date of retirement”, in relation to a Government servant re- 
employed after retirement, without any break, either in the same or 
in another Class I post under the Central Government or in any other 
equivalent post under a State Government, shall mean the date on 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


Part II— Sec, 3] 


1507 


which such Government servant finally ceases to be so re-employed in 
Government service”. 


[No. 29/10/52-Estt.] 
B. D. TEWARI, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 15 th June 1954 

S.K.O. 1960. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ment shall be made in the rules published with the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Home Department, No. F.9-19/30-Ests,, dated the 27th February 
1932, namely: — 

For the words “a Central Service, Class III or a Central Service, Class IV” 
occurring in the Explanation below rule 6, the words “a subordinate service” shall 
be substituted. 


[No. 7/29/53-Ests.] 
S. P. MAHNA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STATES 

New Delhi, the 14 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1961. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part C 
States (Laws) Act, 1950 (XXX of 1950), the Central Government hereby extends 
to the State of Manipur the Assam Embankment and Drainage Act, 1941 (Assam 
Act VII of 1941) (hereinafter in this notification referred to as the said Act) as at 
present in force in the State of Assam subject to the following modifications, 
namely: — 

1. Throughout the said Act except in sub-clause (b) of clause (ii) and sub- 
clause (a) of clause (iv), of section 2, and section 11, for the words “State Govern- 
ment” the words “Chief Commissioner” shall be substituted. 

2. In section 1 of the said Act, for clauses (ii) and (Hi) the following clauses 
shall be respectively substituted, namely: — 

“(ii) It extends to the whole of the State of Manipur; 

(iii) It shall come into force on such date as the Chief Commissioner of 

Manipur may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.” 

3. In section 2 of the said Act, in sub-clause (a) of clause (iv) after the words, 
figures and brackets “(Regulation I of 1886)” the words “os extended to the State 
of Manipur” shall be inserted 

4. In section 5 of the said Act, in sub-clause (b) of clause (i) the words “of the 
District in which such embankment or drain is situated” shall be omitted. 

5. In section 8A of the said Act — 

(a) the words “or, where the scheme affects persons in more than one 

district, the Commissioner of Division" shall be omitted; 

(b) the words “or the Commissioner as the case may be” wherever they 

occur shall be omitted. 

6. In section 9 of the said Act, in the proviso to clause (ii) for the words “on 
land in temporary settled districts of Assam” the words “on temporarily settled 
land” shall be substituted. 


Annexure 

The Assam Embankment and Drainage Act, 1941 (Assam Act VII of 1941), as 
modified by this notification. 



1508 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Fart II— Sec. 3 


ASSAM ACT VII OF 1941 
The Assam Embankment and Drainage Act, 1941 
( Passed by the Assam Legislature ) 

(Received the assent of the Governor on the 3rd May 19 41) 

(Published in the Assam Gazette of the 14th May 1941) 

An Act to provide for the construction, removal and up-keep of embankments and 
for the drainage and improvement of lands in Assam 
Preamble. — -Whereas it is expedient to make provision for the construction, 
maintenance, management, removal and control of embankments and for the better 
drainage and improvement of lands in Assam; 

And whereas the previous sanction of the Governor has been obtained to the 
introduction of this Bill; 

It is hereby enacted as follows:— 

1. Short title, extent and commencement.-— (i) This Act may be called the 
Assam Embankment and Drainage Act, 1941. 

(ii) It extends to the whole of the State of Manipur. 

(iii) It shall come into force on such date as the Chief Commissioner of Manipur 
may, by notification in the Official Gazette specify in that behalf. 

2. Definitions. — In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the bject > 

or context — / 

(i) “Cattle” includes also elephants, buffaloes, horse, ponies, mules 'yes, 

pigs, sheep and goats. 

(ii) (a) “Embankment” means any embankment, public or privs 

structed for the purpose of excluding, regulating or retaini: 
and includes all earthen or masonry walls, dams, spillwaj., 
groins, sluices, syphons, water gauges, bench-marks and other ' .. 
subsidiary to any such embankment; but does not include any “ai 
or ridge surrounding or dividing a field or any public or private roaa. 

(b) “Public Embankment” means an embankment vested in the Crown or 

under the control and administration of the Provincial Government or 
any Local Board, Municipality or Town Committee, 

(c) "Private Embankment" means any embankment which is not a public 

embankment. 

(d) “Drain” includes dongs and irrigation channels in the plains, a tunnel, a 

culvert, a ditch a channel, a canal, a syphon, a sluice or artificial 
water course of any other description and any other device for 
excluding, regulating or retaining water, rain water, flood water or 
sub-soil water; but does not include the ordinary irrigation processes 
in hill and submontane districts. 

(iii) "Embankment Officer” means the Executive Engineer of any Division 

and any other officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer whom 
the Chief Commissioner may declare to be such, 

(Iv) (a) "Owner” shall include proprietors and settlement holders as defined 
in the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886 (Regulation I of 
1886) as extended to the State of Manipur and every intermediate 
' tenant between the proprietor or settlement holder and the occupier 
and with respect to unsettled waste land, shall mean Provincial 
Government. 

(b) "Occupier” means the person residing in or in possession of any house 

land or place. 

(c) “Local Area” means an area notified as such by the Chief Commissioner 

in the Gazette to which section 13 of this Act would apply, 

(d) “Prescribed” means prescribed by rules and under this Act. 

(e) “Cost” means the capital cost of a work Including that of the connected 

survey but does not include any maintenance or interest charges, or 
any contribution made by Government under section 7. 

3. Right of entry upon private land and payment for damage. — (i) It shall be 
lawful for any officer generally or specially authorised by the Chief Commissioner 
m this behalf and for his servants and workmen to enter upon, survey and take 
levels of any land, whether covered with water or not; 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


1509 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


to dig or bore into the subsoil; to make levels by placing marks; and to cut down 
and clear away any part of any standing crop, fence, or jungle whenever necessary 
for the completion of any survey: 

Provided that no person shall enter into any building or upon any enclosed 
court or garden attached to a dwelling house, unless with the consent of the 
occupier thereof, without previously giving the occupier at least ten days’ notice 
in writing of his intention to do so. 

(ii) The officer so authorised shall at the time of such entry pay or tender 
payment for all damage done as aforesaid and in case of dispute as to the suffi- 
ciency of the amount so paid or tendered, he shall refer forthwith the dispute to 
the Deputy Commissioner whose decision which shall be based on an enquiry, held 
either by himself or by a gazetted officer not below the rank of Extra Assistant 
Commissioner deputed by him, shall be final. Nothing in this sub-section shall 
debar the person injured from applying direct to the Deputy Commissioner for 
compensation. No claim under this sub-section made later than six months after 
the damage occurred shall be entertained. 

4. Construction, removal or alteration of embankments or removal of obstruc- 
tions. — (i) The Embankment Officer shall have power: — 

(a) to remove any obstruction of any kind which in his opinion endangers 

the stability of any embankment or drain, 

(b) to remove or alter any embankment or drain or any obstruction of any 

kind which in his opinion endangers the safety of any town or village 
or is likely to cause loss of property by interfering with the general 
drainage or the flood drainage of any tract of land, and 

(c) to construct any embankment or drain the absence of which, in hia 

opinion, endangers the safety of any town or village. 

iii) Except as hereinafter provided the Embankment Officer shall, before exer- 
cisiifig his powers under sub-section (i) above, apply to the Deputy Commissioner 
fo j / permission stating the nature of the action proposed to be taken and the reasons 
Wierefor. Thereupon the Deputy Commissioner shall publish a general notice to 
all persons likely to he affected and after considering any objection that may bo 
received, may refuse or grant permission either absolutely or subject to such 
conditions as he may think fit to impose. Any person aggrieved by the Deputy 
Commissioner’s order may within thirty days thereof appeal to the Chief Com- 
missioner whose decision shall be final. 

(iii) In case of grave and imminent danger to life or property the Embankment 
Officer may forthwith commence the execution of any work under sub-section (i) 
and then apply for permission under sub-section (ii) above. Before the Embank- 
ment Officer begins any emergency work under this section he shall intimate his 
proposals to the Railway Administration, Local Boards. Municipalities and Town 
Committees within the area affected by such work. But in any such case, if it 
should appear that anything done by the Embankment Officer was unnecessary, 
any person who has sustained damage by the execution of the work shall be 
entitled to make a claim to compensation for the decision of the Deputy Com- 
missioner. No claim under this sub-section made later than six months after the 
damage occurred shall be entertained, An appeal against the Deputy Com- 
missioner's decision shall lie to the District Judge but no appeal shall be entertained 
unless it is made within sixty days of the date of the Deputy Commissioner’s 
decision. Where the claim is upheld, the applicant is entitled to have the land, 
embankment or drain restored as nearly as possible to its original state, regard 
being had to the amount of the work which the Deputy Commissioner or the 
District Judge, as the case may be, considers to have been necessary, at the expense 
of Government: 

Provided that no suit or criminal prosecution shall lie against the Embankment 
Officer for anything done or omitted to be done by him in good faith under this 
Act. 

5. Application for a drain or a new embankment or a sluice in a public embank- 
ment. — (i) (a) If any person desires that a bridge, culvert syphon or sluice be 
made in any public embankment for the purpose or drainage or irrigation, or 

(b) If within any local area to which section 13 has been applied, any person 
desires that any new embankment or drain be constructed or that any existing 
embankment or drain he altered or removed. 

He shall make an application in writing to the Deputy Commissioner. 

(ii) At the time of making such application the applicant(s) shall deposit with 
the Deputy Commissioner the sum of Rupees ten towards the expense of surveys 
etc., necessary for investigating the soundness of the proposal 



1510 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


6. Procedure for enquiry and realisation of cost. — When application has been 
made to the Deputy Commissioner under section 5 he shall forward the proposals 
to the Chief Commissioner, 

7. Preparation of schemes for improvement of drains, embankments and flood 
protection.— Whenever it appears to the Chief Commissioner that any embankment 
or drainage work is necessary for the improvement of any lands, or for the proper 
cultivation or irrigation thereof, or for protection from floods or other accumula- 
tions of water, or from erosion by a river (whether the lands to be so protected 
are in the immediate vicinity of the place where the work is considered necessary; 
or otherwise) the Chief Commissioner after consultation with the Railway 
Administration, any Local Board, Municipality or Town Committee regarding all 
schemes within a notified local area, and in all other areas without such consulta- 
tion, may cause a scheme for such embankment or drainage work to be drawn 
up by the Embankment Officer and published together with an estimate of its cost 
and a statement of the proportion of such cost which the Government proposes to 
defray, and a schedule of the lands which it is proposed to make chargeable. 

8. (i) Power to enter and survey etc. — The person authorised by the Chief 
Commissioner to draw up such a scheme may with his servants and workmen 
enter upon any lands adjacent to any embankment of drain or on which any 
embankment or drain is proposed to be made, and undertake surveys or levels 
thereon; and dig and bore into the sub-soil; and make and set up suitable land- 
marks, level marks and water gauges; and do all acts necessary for the pre- 
paration of the scheme contemplated under this Act; and 

(11) Power to clear land— where otherwise such enquiry cannot be completed, 
such officer or other person acting under his orders may cut down and clear away 
any part of any standing crop, fence or jungle. / 

(iii) Information or assistance to be furnished. — Every proprietor and setl/le- 

ment-holder of any land and every person entitled to receive rent in respect! of 
any land or occupying any land as a tenant, shall, on the written requisition 
of the Embankment Officer, furnish, personally or otherwise, as the Embamk- 
ment Officer directs, such information or assistance as may be required by than, 
officer for the purpose of preparing the scheme. ' 

Notice of intended entry into courtyard and gardens attached to the dwelling 
houses. — Provided that, if such aforesaid officer or person acting under his orders 
proposes to enter into any enclosed court or garden attached to a dwelling 
house, he shall previously give the occupier of such court or garden at least ten 
days’ notice In writing, of his intention to do so. 

(iv) Compensation for damage caused by entry. — In every case of entry 
under this section the aforesaid officer shall, at the time of such entry, tender 
compensation for any damage which ,may be occasioned by any proceeding un- 
der this section; and, in case of dispute as to the sufficiency of the amount so 
tendered he shall forthwith refer the same for decision by the Deputy Com- 
missioner and such decision which shall be based on an enquiry, held either 
by himself or by a gazetted officer not below the rank of Extra Assistant Com- 
missioner deputed by him, shall be final. 

8A, As soon as possible after the publication of a scheme under section 7, a 
Deputy Commissioner, shall invite objections by a proclamation allowing one 
month’s time for their receipt from the public, and any Railway Administra- 
tion, Local Board, Municipality or Town Committee likely to be affected. On 
receipt of any objections the Deputy Commissioner shall publish a notice stat- 
ing the place, date and time at which an enquiry wijl be held for the purpose 
of ascertaining the validity of the objections. After such enquiry has been 
completed the Deputy Commissioner shall forward the objections along with 
his recommendations to the Chief Commissioner. 

9. (i) Completion of scheme. — After taking into consideration any objections 
and recommendations made under the preceding section the Chief Commissioner 
may direct that the scheme drawn up under section 7, with such consequen- 
tial modifications as Government deem necessary, be put into operation and 
completed forthwith, or within such period as may be directed. 

(ii) Rates , — An anual rate may be charged on the occupier or, if there is 
no occupier, the owner of all lands proposed to be made chargeable under 
section 7 so as to liquidate the cost of the scheme within a period not exceed- 
ing twenty years as Government may prescribe. Such rate shall not be varied 
by the Chief Commissioner. 

Provided that no rate shall be levied on temporarily settled land which Is 
liable to periodic enhancement of revenue within ten years of completion of 
the improvements effected under this Act. 1 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 151 T 


(iii) Recovery of rate. — Any rate charged under this Act shall be recover- 
able as if it was an arrear of land revenue. 

The Chief Commissioner shall take into account the decree of benefit ac- 
cruing to the assessees when deciding upon the date from which the rate shall 

be levied. 

10. (i) Disposal of claim to compensation. — Whenever any: — 

f a ) obstruction is removed or embankment or drain removed, constructed 
or altered under section 4(i)(a), (b) and (c) or 

(b) embankment or drainage work carried out under section 9 or 

(c) emergent work undertaking under sub-section 4 (iii) or 

(d) right of fishery, right of drainage, right of use of water or other 

right of property, other than as mentioned above, has been in- 
juriously affected 

a claim to compensation for any loss arising therefrom may be made within 
three years of the compensation of the work before the Deputy Commissioner 
who shall award such compensation as he considers fair and reasonable. An 
appeal against the Deputy Commissioner’s decision shall lie to the District Judge, 
but no appeal shall dc entertained unless it is made within sixty days of the 
date of the Deputy Commissioner’s decision. The District Judge’s decision 
shall be final, * 

(ii) Limitation of such claims. — No such claim shall be entertained after the 
expiry of three years from the occurrence of the loss complained of, unless the 
Deputy Commissioner is satisfied that the claimant had sufficient cause for not 
making the claim within such period. 

11. Vesting of certain rights in the crown. — The right of access to and 
*enance of any embankment or drain or portion thereof constructed im- 

oved or repaired under any section of this Act shall vest in the Crown and 
os under the control and administration of the Provincial Government. 

12. (i) Penalties for trespass on embankment or drains.— Any person who, 
without the permission of the Embankment Officer — 

(a) grazes any cattle or allows any cattle belonging to him or in hi & 

charge to trespass on any public embankment or drain or 

(b) cuts or roots out any trees, shrubs or grass growing on any public 

embankment or drain or 

(c) takes any vehicle over or across any public embankment or drain or 

(d) damages or obstructs any embankment or drain constructed, repaired 

or maintained under the provisions of this Act 

shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may 
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees, 
or with both. , | 

(ii) No person shall, without due authority, cut through any embankment or 
drain or destroy or attempt to destroy, any such embankment or drain or 
open or shut or obstruct any sluice in any such embankment or drain or any 
public water course; and every person who shall commit any breach of the 
provisions of this sub-section shall be liable to imprisonment of either descrip- 
tion for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding two hundred 
rupees, or to both. 

13. Penalties for constructing maintaining etc. an embankment or drain . — 
Any person who, without the permission of the Deputy Commissioner constructs, 
removes, alters or damages any embankment or drain, within the limits of any 
local area to which this section may from time to time be applied by a notifica- 
tion in the Official Gazette by the Chief Commissioner, shall be punished with 
imprisonment of cither description for a term which may extend to six montha, 
or with a fine which may extend to two hundred rupees or with both. 

14. (i) Notice for removal of embankment or drain and penalties for neglect of 
such removal. — The Deputy Commissioner may by notice require any person, who 
constructs or alters any embankment or drain in contravention of the provisions 
of section 13, to remove the same within a reasonable time to be specified in the 
notice. 

(ii) If any embankment or drain of which the removal has been required 
by notice under sub-section (i) is not removed within the time specified in tha 
notice, the Deputy Commissioner may cause the same to be removed. 

(iii) The cost of the removal of any embankment or drain removed under 
the provision of sub-section (ii) shall be recoverable as an arrear of land 



1512 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1934 


[Part II — Sic. 3 


revenue either from the person who constructed or altered the embankment or 
drain or who caused it to be constructed or altered or jointly and severally from 
both such persons as the Deputy Commissioner may determme. 

15. (i) Prior consultation with the Public Works and Public Health Depart- 
ments. — In deciding questions which he Is required to do under the provisions of 
this Act the Deputy Commissioner shall first consult the Public Works Department 
on all questions involving technical matters. 

(ii) Before any capital work is undertaken the Public Health Department 
shall be consulted. 

16. Certain persons deemed to be public servants. — Every person authorised 
by an Embankment Officer to act under section 7 shall be deemed to be a 
‘‘Public servant” within the meaning of the Indian Penal Code. (Act XLV of 
1860.) 

17. Ppwer to make rules. — The Chief Commissioner may subject to the condi- 
tion of previous publication make rules generally to carry out the provisions 
of this Act and in particular to regulate the following matters:^ 

(a) the proceedings of any officer who, under any provisions of this Act, 

is required or empowered to take action in any matter; 

(b) the manner in which any order or public notice issued under the 

provisions of this Act shall be published; 

(c) the area in respect of which the Deputy Commissioner shall consult 

the Railway Administration and Local Bodies with regard to appli- 
cations under section 5; 

(d) the manner in which apportionment of costs under this Act shall be 

made; and 

(e) the rates chargeable under the provisions of this Act. 

18. Indian Railways Act, 1890 (Act IX of 1890) not affected. — Nothing in thi 
Act shall affect the provisions of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (Act IX of 1890) 

[No. 72- J.] 
J. C. GHOSAL, Under Secy. 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Coffee Control 
Neiv Delhi, the 15 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1962.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of 
Section 4 of the Coffee Market Expansion Act, 1942 (VII of 1942), the Central 
Government, on the recommendation of the Government of Coorg, hereby 
nominate Sliri K. P. Karumbaya, Virajpet, Coorg, as a member of the Indian! 
Coffee Board. 

[No. 13 (13) -Plant/53.] 
SHIV DEV SINGH, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 19 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1963. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Explanation 
I to sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty) Act, 1953 
(39 of 1963) the Central Government hereby fixes the permissible quota for the 
quarter April 1954 to June 1954 and for every subsequent quarter, in respect of 
the Maheshwari Mills Ltd., Ahmedabad to be 550,000 yards (Five hundred and 
fifty thousand yards only). 

[No. 9 (27) -CT (A) /53-8.] 

B, SANYAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
Transport Wing 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 10 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1964. — Whereas having regard to the circumstances prevailing at 
present in relation to every ship which is a home-trade ship, the Central Govern- 
ment is satisfied that the requirements contained in section 25A of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), are unnecessary and ought to be 
dispensed with in the case of such ship; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 289C of the 
said Act, the Central Government hereby exempts every snip which is a home- 
trade ship from the requirements contained in the said section 25A. 

[No. 75M.A. (17)/54.] 



Paht II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1513 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 12 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1965. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), and in supersession of all previous 
Rules published on the subject, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules to regulate the granting of Certificates of Competency to Masters 
and Mates in the Mercantile Marine. 

These rules shall come into force on the 12th June, 1954. 

RULES RELATING TO THE EXAMINATION OF MASTERS AND MATES 

CHAPTER I 
Introductory 

1, Authority for Rules . — These rules are issued in pursuance of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923) . 

By sections 15 and 21 of that Act provision is made for holding examinations 
for the grant of certificates of competency and power is given to the Central 
Government to make rules for the conduct of such examinations and the qualifica- 
tions of the applicants. 

In accordance with Section 11 of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, 
every Indian foreign-going ship* and every Indian home trade ship of 300 tons or 
upwards when going to sea from any place in India shall be provided with 
officers duly certificated under this Act according to the following scales: — 

(a) In any case with a duly certificated Master; 

(b) If the ship is of 300 tons or upwards, with at least one officer besides 

the Master holding a certificate not lower than that of Mate. 

An officer is not duly certificated unless he is the holder for the time being of 
a valid certificate under the Merchant Shipping Act of a grade appropriate to his 
station in the ship or of a higher grade. A valid certificate means a certificate 
of competency granted by the Central Government or by the Government of 
the U.K. or of a Commonwealth Country or of a British Colony or Possession 
which has been declared by Order in Council made under Section 102 of the 
United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act, 1894. to have the same force as a certi- 
ficate of competency granted under that Act (see Appendix J), or a Certificate 
of Service granted by the Ministry of Transport United Kingdom (see Rule 17). 

By Section 13 of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, any person who 

(a) having been engaged as one of the officers mentioned in Section 11, 

goes to sea as such officer without being duly certificated, or 

(b) employs a person as officer in contravention of Section 11 without 

ascertaining that the person so serving is duly certificated, 

shall be liable for each such offence to a fine which may extend to five hundred 
rupees. 


CHAPTER II 
General 

Applications to be examined and conditions of entry 

2. Examination of Aliens . — No alien may be examined for a certificate of 
competency as Master (foreign-going), or First Mate (foreign- going) Master 
(home trade) or Mate (Home trade), without the prior approval of the Central 
Government. 

Explanation . — "Alien” means a person other than a citizen of India or a 
Commonwealth Country. v 


Foreign-going ship” means a ship not being a homo trade ship employed in trading bet 
ween any port in India and any other part or place ; and ‘‘ Home Trade ship” means a ship employ" 
ed in trading between any ports in India or between any port in India and any port or place on the 
continent of India or in Burma or in the Straits Settlements in the Island of Ceylon. 



1514 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II— Sec. S 


3. Proof of Nationality. — Every candidate for a certificate of competency of any 
grade will be required to produce proof of nationality. 

Proof of Indian Nationality will, in ordinary circumstances, involve the produc- 
tion of a birth certificate or of a certificate of naturalisation. If an applicant for 
examination cannot produce such a certificate he will be asked to furnish such 
documentary evidence of nationality or of birth and nationality of parents as he 
may be able to obtain and, if necessary, the case will be referred to the Director 
General of Shipping for verification, 

If the applicant is not an Indian subject, he should, as a rule, be able to 
produce some official document testifying to his nationality. If there is any 
doubt as to the authenticity of such document, the Examiner will consult the 
nearest appropriate Consular Officer. If necessary, the case will be submitted 
to the Central Government for consideration. 

4. Days and Places of Examinations. — The days and places at which examina- 
tions are held are shown in Appendix A. 

5. How to apply.— Candidates for examination must fill up a form of application 

[Form Exn. 2 (India)], at a Mercantile Marine Office. The form, properly 
filled in, together with the candidate’s testimonials discharges and birth, first aid 
and watchkeeping certificates, should be lodged with the Principal Officer, Mercan- 
tile Marine Department of the port at which the candidate desires to be examined, 
at least a week before the day of examination; and the candidate must conform to 
any rules in this respect which may be printed by the Central Government. In 
the absence of the necessary verification of the discharges and testimonials etc., 
the candidate cannot be examined. , 

0. How to apply in special cases. — In cases where a candidate is in doubt as fo 
whether his service complies with the requirements of the Rules, and wishes to 
submit his case for special consideration, all certificates, discharges, testimonials 
and watchkeeping certificates together w[th the form of application [Exn. 2 
(India)], duly completed, should be submitted to the Principal Officer, Mercantile 
Marine Department at Bombay, Calcutta or Madras. 

7. Enquiries. — All other enquiries regarding examinations should be made and 
dealt with in the same way. The point on which information is sought should 
be clearly stated and certificates, discharges, testimonials, etc., should always 
accompany the enquiry. Enquiries from candidates abroad should be addressed 
direct to the Chief Examiner of Masters and Mates, C/o. Directorate General of 
Shipping, Commerce House, Ballard Estate, Bombay — 1. 

8. Applications — Particulars of Sea Service. — A candidate’s eligibility for 
examination will depend (amongst other things) upon the amount of sea service 
which he has performed and upon the ranks which he has held on board the 
various vessels in which he has been employed. It is therefore imperative that 
the particulars which the candidate inserts in Division H of the application form 

[Exn. 2 (India)], should be accurately stated. 

Candidates for certificates, for which service as watchkeeping officer is required, 
must also produce certificates of watchkeeping service signed by the Masters of 
the vessels on which they have served. A specimen form of this certificate is 
shown in Appendix H, 

It must be clearly understood that the amount of service laid down in the 
Rules for each grade of certificate of competency is the absolute minimum that 
can be accepted, and unless a candidate can prove the full amount he cannot be 
admitted to the examination, 

9. Fraud and Misrepresentation. — Any person who makes, procures to be made, 
or assists in making, any false representation for the purpose of obtaining for 
himself or any other person, a certificate either of competency or service is for 
each offence liable to be punished for cheating under section 420 of the Indian 
Penal Code and also for knowingly giving false information to a public servant 
under section 182 of the Indian Penal Code. 

10. Attempted Bribery. — If a candidate offers or attempts to offer any gratifica- 
tion to any officer of the Directorate General of Shipping or the Mercantile Marine 
Department, for the purpose of being shown any favour in the examination, he 
will be regarded as having committed an act of misconduct and will be rejected. 
He will not be allowed to be examined again until a period of at least twelve 
months has elapsed from the date of the rejection of his candidature. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1515 


11. Testimonials required. — Testimonials as to ‘character’, including sobriety, 
and to experience and ability, on board ship for at least the last twelve months 
of sea service preceding the date of application to be examined, will be required 
of all candidates. 

12. Unsatisfactory Conduct. — Candidates who have neglected to join their vessels 
after having signed articles, or who have deserted their vessels after having joined, 
or who have been found guilty of gross misconduct on board, will be required to 
produce satisfactory proof of two years’ subsequent service and good conduct at 
sea, unless the Director General of Shipping after investigation, should see fit 
to reduce the time, 

13. Deafness and other Physical and Mental Disabilities. — If during the progress 
of the examination the Examiner finds that a candidate is afflicted with deafness, 
with an impediment in his speech, or with some other physical or mental infirmity, 
and upon further investigation is satisfied that the degree of infirmity is such as 
to render the candidate incapable of discharging adequately the ordinary sea- 
going duties of a Master or Mate, he will not allow the candidate to complete 
the examination and will return his examination fee; every case in which this 
action is taken will be reported to the Director General of Shipping. 

, . the candidate subsequently produces a medical certificate to the effect that 
his hearing, speech, or physical or mental condition has improved or is normal, the 
Director General of Shipping will consider allowing the candidate to sit again 
for examination, 

14. Aliens — Knowledge of English. — Aliens who have been admitted to the 

■ :.tion under Rule 2 must prove to the satisfaction of the examiners that 

:y can speak and write English sufficiently well to perform the duties required 

j. them on board Indian and British vessels. If a candidate fails through 
ignorance of the English language he will not be re-examined for a further six 
months. 

15 Issue of Certificates. — If the candidate passes he will receive a form Exn. 16 
(India) authorising the Principal Officer to whom it is addressed to issue the 
certificate It is, therefore, important that the port at which the certificate is 
to be issued should be the same on both the form Exn. 16 (India), and the form 
Exn. 2 (India), If circumstances involve any alteration, the Examiner will see 
that both forms are altered so as to avoid delay in the issue of the certificate. 
If the candidate is partially successful or unsuccessful, he will receive from the 
Examiner form Exn. 16-C (India) . The candidate must retain this form and 
produce it to the Examiner when he next presents himself for examination. 

16. Service found to be insufficient.— If after a candidate has passed the 
examination it is discovered on further investigation that his service is insufficient 
to entitle him to receive a certificate of the grade for which he has passed, the 
certificate will not be granted to him. If, however, the Director General of 
Shipping, is satisfied that the error in the calculation of the candidate’s service 
did not occur through any fault or wilful misrepresentation on his part, he may 
either return the fee to him or place it to his credit. Should the candidate’s 
service entitle him to a certificate of lower grade it may be granted to him, and 
the difference, if any, between the fee paid by him for the higher grade certificate 
and the fee payable for the lower grade certificate will be returned to him or 
placed to his credit. The higher grade certificate will not be granted until the 
candidate has made up his deficiency in service, and has been re-examined in all 
the subjects, but the Director General of shipping at his discretion dispense with 
the re-examination. 

17. Certificates of Service. — An executive officer who has attained the permanent 
rank of Lieutenant in the Indian Navy and who has performed a period of sea 
service not less than the overall service which a Merchant Navy officer is 
required to serve at sea in the various capacities before becoming eligible to sit 
for the examination for a Certificate of Competency as Master Foreign-going, 
i.e. seven years sea service, may apply to he granted a Certificate of Service as 
Master of a Foreign-going ship without examination, (Reserve officers are not 
eligible for Certificates of Service) . A Certificate of Service will not entitle the 
holder to go to sea as Master or Mate of a home trade ship. 

Applications for certificates of service should he made on printed form Exn. 18, 
obtainable free of charge from the Director General of Shipping, Commerce House, 
Currimbhoy Road, Ballard Estate, Bombay, or the Principal Officer, Mercantile 
Marine Department at Bombay, Calcutta or Madras. In the United Kingdom, 
form Exn. 18 may be obtained from the Registrar General of Shipping and 



1 5 i6 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


Seamen, Llantrisant Road, Llandaff, Cardiff, or from the Superintendent of a 
Mercantile Marine Office. 

Applicants on duty in India should submit their claims through the Commander- 
in -Chief, Indian Navy, for transmission to the Under Secretary of State for 
Commonwealth Relations, Commonwealth Relations Office, London, S.W. 1; but 
when such officers are in the United Kingdom, the claim may be sent direct to the 
Commonwealth Relations Office. 

Applications will be forwarded after scrutiny to the United Kingdom, Ministry 
of Transport, Berkeley Square House, Berkeley Square, London, w.1. 

Certificates of Service will be issued for the present by the United Kingdom, 
Ministry of Transport only, 

A fee of £1 is chargeable for a Certificate of Service under Section 2(1) (b), 
of the United Kingdom Fees (Increase) , Act, 1023. 

18. Examination of Officers in the Indian Navy— Officers of the Indian Navy 
may be examined for certificates of competency on the same conditions as officers 
in the Mercantile Marine. The applications of officers wishing to be so examined 
should be made, if on the active list, through their Commanding Officers, and if 
on half-pay direct to the Commander-in-Chief, Indian Navy, who, in either case, 
will forward the application to the Director General of Shipping. 


Certificates Lost or Exchanged 

19. Copies of Lost Certificates. — An applicant for a certified copy of a lc 
Certificate either of competency or service, should complete a form of apr>lie. " 
Exn. 23 (India), giving the necessary particulars, and hand it to the Principu 
Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay, Calcutta or Madras. A 
declaration as to the circumstances in which the certificate was lost must be made 
by the applicant before the Principal Officer who will state thereon whether a 
fee is to be charged or not, and will forward the application form to the Director 
General of shipping, who will forward a certified copy of the lost certificate for 
delivery to the applicant. The fee for renewal shall not exceed Re. 5. 

No fee is chargeable if the applicant can prove that the certificate was lost 
through shipwreck or fire. 

20. Exchange of certificate. — An officer holding an old-type certificate may ex- 
change it for a certificate of the same grade in book form or payment of a fee of 
Rs. 2. Application should be made on form Exn. 23 (India) and the fee paid to 
the Principal Officer who will forward the application to the Director General 
of Shipping. 


Endorsement of Certificates 

21. Recipients of Government awards can have their certificates of competency 
suitably stamped if they submit evidence of the award together with their certifi- 
cate to the Director General of Shipping either directly or through a Principal 
Officer, Mercantile Marine Department. 

Holders of a Postmaster-General’s certificate in Wireless Telegraphy, a certifi- 
cate granted by the Director General of Posts and Telegraphs as Wireless 
Operator or a Ministry of Transport Radar Maintenance or Observer’s Certificate 
can similarly have particulars of these certificates endorsed on their certificates 
ef competency (see also Rules 31, 32, 33, and 34). 

First Aid Certificates 

22. (a) Every candidate for a certificate of competency of any grade as Master 
or Mate will be required to produce a certificate of proficiency in First Aid which 
should be to the satisfaction of the Principal Officer. Any certificate which is 
accepted by the Ministry of Transport, United Kingdom, will also be accepted for 
the purpose of this rule. 

(b) The certificate must be an adult certificate, i.e. obtained by the candidate 
when 16 years of age or more, and the examination for it must have been passed 
not more than 3 years before the date of the examination for the Certificate of 
Competency. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1517 


(c) If a candidate does not possess such a certificate of proficiency in Firat Aid, 
he should apply some time before he wishes to sit for the examination for a 
certificate asMaster or Mate, to the Port Health Officer, of the Port at which he 
will sit for examination who will inform him of the available facilities for the 
instruction and examination of candidates in First Aid. 


Sight Tests 

23. Every candidate for a certificate of competency must pass the prescribed 
sight tests before he can receive a certificate. If circumstances render it neces- 
sary for him to be examined in navigation and seamanship before undergoing the 
sight tests, such examination will be cancelled if he fails to pass either of the 
sight tests, A pass certificate in the sight tests is valid for three months. 

Detailed information with regard to the conduct of the examination and the 
standards required is contained in Appendix C. 


(b) Letter Test,— Every candidate for a certificate of competency must pass 
the letter test. If he obtained a certificate of competency before 1st January, 
1914, he will only be required to possess half normal vision using both eyes to- 
gether. Otherwise he must pass a higher standard, viz., normal vision using both 
eyes or either eye separately. 


(c) Lantern Test.— Every candidate must pass the lantern test or produce a 
valid pass certificate in the sight tests when seeking to obtain his first certificate 
of competency. He will not be required to undergo the lantern test on any subse- 
nt occasion. 


(d) Examination in the Sight Tests only— The sight tests are open to all 
— is serving or intending to serve in merchant ships or in fishing boats, and 
all such persons are advised to take the earliest opportunity of ensuring that their 
vision is up to standard. Any such person, wishing to undergo the testa, should 
make application to a Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department on form 
Exn. 2A (India), and pay a fee of two rupees. This fee will be payable whenever 
a candidate is examined. 


(e) Sight tests are held at Bombay, Calcutta Madras and Cochin see also 
Appendix B. 


CHAPTER III 

Grades of Certificates, Age Limits and Qualifications Required 

24. Validity of Certificates.— Foreign-going certificates of competency as Master 
or Mate issued on or after 1st January, 1931, will be valid for use on any mechani- 
cally propelled vessel, fishing boats excepted, but they will not entitle the holders 
to go to sea as Master or Mate of a foreign-going sailing ship unless endorsed for 
that purpose. Candidates who desire a sailing ship qualification can obtain the 
requisite endorsements to their certificates provided that they can comply with 
the conditions laid down in Rules 31 and 32, and pass the necessary examination 
in seamanship. Holders of ‘Ordinary’ certificates issued prior to 1st January, 
1931, are entitled to act in their certified capacities in any vessel however pro- 
pelled fishing boats excepted. 

25. Second Mate. (Foreign-going) . — A candidate must not be less than 20 years 
of age, and must have served the equivalent of four years at sea in foreign-going 
ships (see Chapter IV.). 

26. First Mate (Foreign-going) * A candidate must not he less than twenty-one 
and a half years of age, and must have served the equivalent of five and a half 
years at sea in foreign-going ships (see Chapter IV). This period of sea service 
must include either— 

(a) Eighteen months in a capacity not lower than that of third of three 

watch-keeping officers on a foreign-going ship whilst holding a 
certificate as Second Mate of a foreign-going ship. (See also 
Rule 41) ; or — 

(b) Two years and three months in a capacity not lower than that of First 

Mate of a home trade ship whilst holding a certificate as Second Mate 


•For convenience of calculation the service required is stated in a tabular form of Appendix 




15 18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Paht II— Sec. 3 


of a foreign-going ship ( see also Rule 38 for conditions under which 
service as Second or Third Mate of a home trade ship may be 
accepted) . 

27. Master (Foreign-going) A candidate must not be less than twenty-three 
years of age, and must have served the equivalent of seven years of sea in foreign- 
going ships (see Chapter IV). This period of a service must include either 

(a) Eighteen months as First Watch-keeping officer of a foreign-going ship 

where the officer is next in seniority to the Master; or 

(b) Twenty-one months as First Watch-keeping officer of a foreign-going 

ship where the officer is not next in seniority to the Master; or 

(c) Twenty-one months as Second Watch-keeping officer of a foreign-going 

ship carrying only two watch-keeping officers; or 

(d) Twenty-four months as Second or Third Watch-keeping officer of a 

foreign-going ship carrying more than two watch-keeping officers; or 

(e) Two years and three months in a capacity not lower than that of First 

Mate of a home trade ship whilst holding a certificate of grade not 
lower than that of First Mate of a foreign-going ship; or 

(f) Three years as Master of a home trade ship; during at least one year 

of this service, the candidate must have held a certificate of grade not 
lower than that of Second Mate of a foreign-going ship or Master of 
a home trade ship. 

(See also Rule 38 for conditions under which service as Second Mate anc. 
Third Mate of a home trade ship may be accepted), 

A candidate who possesses or is entitled to a Certificate of Service as Master (se 
Rule 17) may be examined for a certificate of competency without producing evi- 
dence of sea service. 

For interpretation of watch-keeping service for the purpose of these Rules, see 
Rule 41. 

28. Mate (home trade). — *A candidate must not be less than twenty years of 
age, and have served four years at sea (see Chapter IV) . 

29. Master (Home trade). — A candidate must not be less than twenty-three 
years of age and have served five years at sea (see Chapter IV) of which: — 

(a) One year must have been in a capacity not lower than that of First 

Mate of a home trade or coasting vessel in charge of a watch whilst 
holding a Mate's Certificate for home trade vessels or a Second Mate’s 
certificate for foreign-going vessels; or 

(b) 1J years must have been in a capacity not lower than Second Mate of a 

home trade or coasting vessel in charge of a watch, whilst holding a 
Mate's Certificate for home trade vessels or a Second Mate’s Certificate 
for foreign-going vessels; or 

(c) 1 i years must have been in a capacity not lower than Third Mate in 

charge of a watch on a foreign-going vessel whilst holding a Mate’s 
Certificate for a home trade vessel, or a Second Mate’s Certificate for 
foreign-going vessels; or 

(d) 2J years must have been in a capacity not lower than Third Mate in 

charge of a watch in a home trade or coasting ship whilst holding a 
Mate's Certificate for home trade vessels or a Second Mate’s Certificate 
for foreign-going vessels. 

30. Yacht Master. — The examination for a Yacht Master’s Certificate is 
voluntary, and is confined to persons who command their own Indian sea-going 
pleasure yachts. A Master of a yacht who is not also the sole owner, or who is 
under 21 years of age, is not eligible for examination. 

Only one type of certificate will be Issued, whether the yacht is foreign-going 
or cruises within the home trade limits. 

The certificate will not entitle the holder to command any vessel except the 
pleasure yacht or yachts, of which he is at the time the sole owner. 

Candidates are not required to have served any specified time afloat, since their 
sea knowledge will be sufficiently tested by their examination in seamanship. 


•For convenience of calculation the service required is stated in a tabular form of Appendix G. 



Part II — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1519 


Testimonials of service need not be shown, but a candidate for examination will 
be required to produce a statutory declaration to the effect (1) that he is the sole 
owner of the yacht; (2) that the yacht is sea-going; (3) that it is not to be used lor 
trading purposes. He will also be required to fill up the form of application [ionn 
Exn. 2(India) ] and pay the fee of Rs. 30 at a Mercantile Marine Office, as prescribed 
in Rulg 93, 

In all other respects, except that the candidate will not be required to produce 
a “First Aid” certificate, the Rules relating to the examinations of Masters of 
foreign-going ships will apply. 

31. Sailing Ship Endorsements (foreign-going certificates) . — A candidate for a 
sailing ship endorsement of any grade who has not previously held an endorsement 
of a lower grade or an “Ordinary” certificate of a lower grade issued prior to 
January, 1931, must prove that he has served 12 months in the foreign trade or 18 
months in the^home trade in a square-rigged sailing vessel. Service in vessels with 
auxiliary steam or motor power, which use their propelling machinery only in 
calms or during light winds, is considered as service performed in sailing vessels. 

Subject to the above qualification, a candidate may be examined for a sailing 
ship endorsement of any grade at the same time as he is examined for a certificate 
-of competency of the same or of a higher grade. If a candidate wishes to be 
examined for a sailing ship endorsement only, he must possess a certificate of 
competency of at least the same grade as the endorsement which he requires. 

32. Sailing Ship Endorsement (home trade certificates) . — A candidate must 
prove that he has served at least 12 months in the foreign or home trade in a 
■square-rigged sailing vessel. 

33. Voluntary Examination in Com.pass Deviation . — Any person holding a certi- 
ficate of any grade in the foreign or home trade, or as Master of his own pleasure 
.yacht, who wishes to pass a voluntary examination in compass deviation, can be 
■examined upon filling up the usual form of application and paying to the Principal 

Officer, the fee of Rs. 15. ( See Appendix A). 

If the candidate passes the examination his certificate will be endorsed to that 
■ effect. In order to pass, he must obtain 70 per cent of the aggregate marks. (For 
syllabus see Appendix L). 

34. Voluntary Examination in Signalling. — All persons who hold, or have Dassed 
an examination for, a certificate of competency of any grade may undertake the 
voluntary examination in signalling. 

If the candidate passes, his success, with the date and place of passing, will be 
recorded upon his certificate of competency, 

Candidates may be examined at any port where examinations are held upon 
filling up the form of application [Exn. 2(lndia)] and paying the fee of fifteen 
rupees. (See Appendix D) . 

No fee, however, will be charged for this examination if it is taken when a 
candidate is also examined for any certificate of competency. 


CHAPTER IV 

Rules for estimating Sea Service 

35. Sea Service. — Qualifying sea service except as hereinafter provided, must 
be performed in the Deck Department. 

For the purpose of these Rules, sea service is ■ reckoned from the commence- 
ment of the voyage to its termination. Certificates of discharge for service in the 
■foreign trade will generally be accepted as proof of sea service, but certificates 
■of discharge for service in the home or coasting trades will be carefully verified 
hy the local Examiners. The Examiners will be careful to see that these discharges 
have not been tampered within any way. 

Where service in charge of a watch is required, certificates of watch-keeping 
service must also be produced (see Appendix H). 

For all certificates of competency as Master or Mate in the Merchant Navy, 
the qualifying service usually required is service performed in ordinary trading 
vessels. While the Rules provide for the acceptance in part of certain kinds of 
non-trading service (e.g. that performed in fishing boats, yachts, pilot vessels etc.) 



1520 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


non-trading service not specially provided for in the Rules cannpt be accepted 
without the special sanction of tne Central Government. 

36. Nature of Service determined by actual position on Board Ship. — Sea 
service, in whatever trade it may be performed, cannot be regarded as qualifying: 
for examination for certificates of competency, unless it can be verified by reference 
to the articles of the ship in which it was performed. For example, service 'claimed 
by testimonial or otherwise to have been as Mate when the actual rating as shown 
by the articles was only that of the boatswain, will not be accepted where officer’s 
service is required. 

37. Sea service of Foreign-going Certificates. — For foreign-going certificates the 
term “sea service” means, unless otherwise stated,- service performed in foreign- 
going vessels. (See also Rule 38). 

38. Service in Home Trade. — (1) For home trade certificates, service in the 
home trade is accepted in full, except service between Dhanushkodi/Talaimannar 
which will on)y count as half time up to a maximum of six months for home trade- 
certificates. 

For foreign-going certificates service in the home trade is regarded as only- 
equivalent to two thirds of the time served in the foreign trade; provided, that 
where service on a home trade voyage covers a non stop run between two ports 
of at least 500 miles, the service will be recognised as equivalent in all respects to 
service in foreign going ships, subject to the following conditions:— 

Applications of candidates who claim sea service on home trade voyages as- 
equivalent to service in foreign-going ships are to be submitted to the Chief 
Examiner of Masters and Mates for approval together with a signed statement from 
the owner or Master giving the name of the ship, dates and the ports between 
which non-stop runs of 500 miles or more have been made. 

Each application will be considered on its merits by the Chief Examiner whose- 
decision will be final. 

(2) The amount of service as Master of First Mate in the home trade which 
will qualify a candidate for examination for a- certificate as Master or First Mate- 
(foreign-going) is shown in Rules 26 and 27. 

In addition, the Director General of Shipping will be prepared to consider on 
its merits any application by a candidate for a First Mate's (foreign-going) certi- 
ficate for the acceptance of time served as Second or Third Mate m the home 
trade. The acceptance of such service will be subject to the following general 
considerations: — 

(a) An adequate proportion of the time must have been spent in actual 

service at sea,, l.c., outside partially smooth water limits. 

(b) The service must have involved real responsibility, and an adequate pro- 

portion of it must have been spent in sole charge of a watch at sea. 

(c) The service must have been performed while in the possession of a certi- 

ficate as Second Mate (foreign-going). 

The Director General of Shipping will also be prepared to consider on their 
merits application for the acceptance of time spent as Second or Third Mate in the 
home trade as qualifying for a Master’s (foreign-going) certificate, subject to the 
following conditions: — 

(d) The service must have been service in sole charge of a watch at sea 

and must have been performed while in possession of a certificate as 
First Mate (foreign-going). 

(e) The greater part of the service must have been on voyages in respect 

of which the extreme ports visited were at least 500 miles apart, 
Not mere than one-third of the service submitted may be made up 
of voyages of shorter length, and in no case will service on regular 
runs between near neighbouring ports which take less than two 
watches (such as the ferry service between Dhanushkodi and 
Talaimannar) be accepted. 

In all such cases, the candidate’s application should be accompanied by certi- 
ficates of watch-keeping service signed by the Master (see Appendix H). 

The proportion of the time which will be accepted will depend upon the parti- 
cular circumstances of each case, but in no case will time spent In the home trade 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1521 


be accepted as equivalent to more than two-thirds of the same period of time spent 
in the foreign trade, except as specified in Rule 38(1). Every case in which a 
candidate claims such service as qualifying will bo referred to the Chief Examiner 
of Masters and Mates. 

39. Service in Ships Trading Abroad.— Service in ships exclusively trading 
abroad will be accepted as equivalent to service in foreign-going ships provided 
that the distance between the extreme ports visited during the course of the 
voyage is at least 500 miles. If the distance is less than 500 miles, the service will 
only be accepted as equivalent to service in the home trade. 

40. Officers' Service. — Service as First Mate means service as the officer next 
in seniority to the Master. Service as junior or auxiliary First Mate, or as First 
Mate under a “Chief Officer” will count for qualifying purposes as equivalent to 
service as the second of three watch-keeping officers. 

The facts in each case must be clearly established by the candidate’s certificates 
of watch-keeping service. 

For definition of “Watch-keeping service”, see Rule 41. 

41. Watch-keeping Service . — (1) For First Mate. — Candidates for Certificates 
of Competency as First Mate must be able to prove by production of certificates 
either: — 

(a) Eighteen months’ service in foreign-going ships of which at least 9 

months have been spent in full charge, or in effective charge, of a 
watch for not less than 8 hours out of each 24 hour’s service at sea; or 

(b) The equivalent service in the home trade [see Rules 26(b) and 38], 

“Effective charge of a watch” means responsibility for the watch but it does not 
preclude occasional supervision by a senior officer provided that the senior officer 
does not at any time take charge of the watch, Where, however, the senior officer 
does take charge, the watch is doubled and the fact should be noted for entry in 
the Certificate of Watch keeping Service. 

An officer who is the junior of two officers keeping doubled watches during a 
voyage may count towards the period of 18 months’ qualifying service two thirds 
of the watch-keeping time so served up to a maximum of nine months (i.e. 13* 
months actual service). 

The exact nature of a candidate’s service must be clearly established by one 
or more Certificates signed by the Master in the form Indicated in Appendix H. 

(2) For Master. — During the whole of the qualifying service between First 
Mate’s and Master’s Certificates specified by the Rules, candidates for a Master’s 
Certificate will be required to have served in full charge of a watch for eight hours 
out of every 24 hours’ service at sea. If performed on a voyage during part of 
which watches have been doubled, such service will be accepted only on condition 
either:— 

(i) that, during the period when watches were doubled, the candidate served 

as the senior of two bridge-keeping officers; or 

(ii) where the candidate served as the junior of two bridge-keeping officers, 

that the Examiner is satisfied that watches have been doubled only 
occasionally in circumstances calling for the exercise of special care 
in the navigation of the vessel. 

In the latter case the time during which watches were doubled will not count 
as qualifying time but the remainder of the voyage may be accepted. 

The whole period of watch-keeping service claimed by a candidate must be 
covered by one or more certificates made out and signed as prescribed in Appendix 

H. 

42. Service in possession of a certificate . — Officer’s service, to be recognised as 
qualifying for purpose of examination, must be performed with the requisite certi- 
ficate as specified in Appendix G. The meaning of the term “certificate” as used 
in the Rules is given in Rule I. The Officer’s service performed by a candidate 
who has been duly promoted during the course of a voyage (see Rule 43) or who, 
as a result, of service in vessels plying between ports abroad, has been unable to 
obtain the necessary certificates, may, however, be recognised, provided that it is 
satisfactory in other respects. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


1522 


43. Promotion during Voyage .— Whenever a man has, from any cause in the 

course °f a voyage, been regularly promoted from the rank in which he first 
shmped on the occurrence of a vacancy and such promotion, on the ground on 
which it has been made, has been properly entered m the articles and the Official 
Log Book he will receive credit for his service in the higher grade for the period 
subsequent to his promotion. ^ u 

44, Mixed Service . — Where a candidate has performed his sea service in more 
than one capacity, or partly in the foreign trade and partly in the home trade 
proportionate allowances will be made for each kind of service, provided that in 
other respects such service complies with the requirements of the Rules. 


45. Evidence an to Service in Foreign Vessels . — -The testimonials of service of 
aliens and of British and Indian Officers and seamen serving in foreign vessels, 
which cannot be verified by the Director General of Shipping must be confirmed 
either by the Consul or some other recognised official authority of the foreign 
country, or by the testimony of some credible person having personal knowledge 
of the facts required to be established. The production, however^ of such proofs 
will not of necessity be deemed sufficient. Each case will be decided on its own 
merits. 

46. Service as Carpenter. Sailmaker. Cook, Steward, etc . — Candidates whose 
service has been performed in capacities other than apprentice, midshipman, cadet, 
ordinary seaman or able seamen — e.g. men who have served as carpenter, or sail- 
maker, or as cook in small vessels where cooking is only a part of man’s duty- 
must satisfy the Examiner that they have, during the whole time claimed, perform- 
ed deck duties in addition to their own particular work. These facts may possibly 
be established by the production of satisfactory certificates from the Masters with 
whom the candidate has served. Such service will only be accepted as equivalent 
to two-thirds of the time served as ordinary deck hand. In the absence of satis- 
factory evidence, the applicant will be required to perform additional service 
in the capacity of a seaman. Service as cook (under conditions other than the 
above), or as steward, or purser, or in the engine room, will not be accepted. 

47. Service as Radio Officer.— If a candidate has been engaged on articles as a 
deck rating, and has served both ns a deck rating and as a Radio Officer two- 
thirds of such service may be counted as qualifying service. The candidate’ must 
however, prove that, during the whole period claimed, he performed deck duties 
in addition to the duties of a Radio Officer, 

If a candidate has been engaged on articles as a Radio Officer, and has perform- 
ed deck duties in addition, two-thirds of such service may be counted as qualifying 
service provided that the candidate can produce a certificate from the Master, to 
the effect that he has performed deck duties throughout the voyage for a reason- 
able proportion of time each day and that he has not spent more than two hours 
a day on regular wireless watch. 

If a candidate has been engaged on articles as a Radio Officer, and has only 
served as such, one quarter of the service may be counted as qualifying service, 
up to a maximum of 12 months’ qualifying service. 

48. Apprentices . — The whole of the time claimed under indentures of apprentice- 
ship will be accepted as actual sea service to qualify under Rule 25 for a Second 
Mate’s certificate, and under Rule 28 for a Mate Home Trade’s certificate, provided 
(a) that the indentures have not been cancelled through some fault of the candi- 
date, but are endorsed by the Owner or Master to whom he was bound to the effect 
that he has performed his service faithfully during the time he remained as 
apprentice; and (b) that the candidate has served at sea four-fifths of the time 
claimed, that is to say, has not spent more than one-fifth .of the time in home ports. 

In cases where an apprentice is qualified for examination before the expiration 
of his indentures, e.g. where he has had training ship or other sea service prior 
to being bound, which, together with his actual time as apprentice, makes up the 
required four years, or where his indentures are for a period of more than four 
years, a letter from the Owner or Master will be accepted in place of the endorse- 
ment referred to above. 

In the event of the candidate being short of the required four-fifths of the time 
claimed as apprentice, he will be required to show sufficient additional sea service, 
either as seaman or junior officer, to make up four-fifths of the time claimed. 

The general concession to apprentices set out above cannot, however, be taken 
to cover a case in which, during a large part of the period of apprenticeship, the 
vessel on which the apprentice is serving had been laid up in a foreign port. The 



Part II— -Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


proportion of the period of apprenticeship which can be accepted as qualifying 
service in such a case depends on the individual circumstances and each case will 
be considered on its merits. The examiners will make as generous an allowance 
for such service as they properly can, but they cannot forego the essential condition 
that candidates for certificates of competency must have sufficient experience of 
actual service at sea. 

49. Midshipmen and Cadets. — The whole of the time served as midshipman 
or cadet under indentures will be accepted subject to the same conditions as those 
laid down for apprentices. Similar considerations apply even when the candidate 
is not bound by indentures, provided that the service as midshipman or cadet has 
been continuous, that on the date of the termination of the period of service claim- 
ed in this capacity the candidate was on articles or attending at a recognised school 
[see Section (D) of Appendix 11 and that he can comply with the requirements of 
the Rules in serving or making up the four-fifths period at sea during the time 
claimed. 

50. Promotion during Apprentice or Cadet Service. — Where an apprentice cadet 
or midshipman, whether bound by indentures or not, is promoted to uncertiflcated 
junior officer in the same company, for the last year of apprenticeship or cadet- 
ship, such officer’s service will be treated, for the purposes of assessing sea service, 
as cadet or apprentice service. 

51. Training Ships. — Time served after the age of 14 on board an approved 
training ship will be allowed to count as equivalent to one-half the same time 
spent in service at sea, up to a limit of two years (i.e. no length of service will be 
allowed to count as more than one year at sea) provided that the candidate can 
produce a satisfactory certificate from the appropriate Committee or Captain 
Superintendent testifying to his good conduct and proficiency up to the time of his 
leaving the ship. Training ship service will not be regarded as equivalent to 
service in square-rigged vessels, 

A list of approved training ships is given in Appendix I. 

52. Shore Schools for Nautical Training. — Time spent after the age of 14 at a 
school for Nautical Training conducted on premises ashore may be allowed to 
count m some proportion as service at sea provided that: — 

(a) The school is recognised under the appropriate Rules. 

(b) After an inspection by one of their officers, the Central Government is 

satisfied that the school gives a training that justifies time spent there 
being reckoned as part of the necessary qualifying time for a certi- 
ficate of competency; and 

(c) The candidate produces a satisfactory certificate as regards conduct and 

proficiency from the authorities of the school on leaving it. 

The schools to which these arrangements may apply are of three kinds: 

(i) Schools at which a boy resides and receives training for a period of years; 

or courses of not less than one academic year, in navigation and 
seamanship, after the age of 16 at nautical residential training colleges. 
The maximum remission of sea service that will be allowed in respect 
of attendance at such a school will be fixed at the time of approval; 
it will never exceed twelve months. 

(ii) Courses in navigation and seamanship at junior Technical Schools are 

similar non-residential institutions, which boys attend before going to 
sea; the maximum remission of sea service In these cases will be 
fixed at the time of approval; it will never exceed six months. 

(iii) Senior courses in Navigation at Technical or other similar non-residential 

Schools which candidates attend after completing the whole or the 
larger part of the service required to qualify for examination for a 
Second Mate’s Certificate or for a Mate’s (home trade) Certificate.' 
the maximum remission of sea service in these cases will be fixed at 
the time of approval; it will never exceed three months. 

In the case of schools of classes (i) and (ii), the certificate must show whether 
or not he has completed the course. 

In the case of schools of classes (ii) and (iii), the certificates which the candi- 
date produces [paragraph (c) above] must in addition testify to the candidate’s 
continuous and regular attendance at all the approved classes, and also, m the case 
of schools of class (ill), must state the total number of hours during which he has 
attended at the school. 



1524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


A candidate who, at different times, has attended two or more approved schools 
of Nautical Training will be allowed a remission of sea service in respect of 
attendance at each of them, subject to the condition that the total remission of sea 
service, in respect of attendance at approved schools and training ships will never 
exceed 12 months. 

Time spent at approved schools will not be accepted in lieu of any part of the 
officer’s service required to qualify a candidate for examination for a certificate 
as First Mate or Master; nor in lieu of sea service required in consequence of 
failure in the oral examination (see rule 66). 

A list of approved schools of n&utical training is given in Appendix I. 

53. Service in Naval Training Colleges. — Time spent at the Naval Training 
Establishment at Cochin or at the Naval College at Dartmouth or the Royal 
Australian Naval College will, subject to the conditions laid down in rule 52, be 
permitted to count as equivalent to one-half of the same time spent in service at 
sea, and a similar allowance will be made in respect of time spent on courses on 
shore after promotion to Acting Sub-Lieutenant, subject to the condition that the 
total remission of sea service in respect of all time spent on shore shall not exceed 
twelve months. Time spent in shore training will not be accepted in lieu of watch- 
keeping service. 

54. Service in the Indian Kauai Reserve. — Sea going and shore based service of 
officers of the Indian Naval Reserve with the Indian Navy will be accepted as 
qualifying watch-keeping service for Certificates of Competency as follows, subject 
to a maximum allowance of six months for each grade of certificate : 

(i) The time spent by Midshipmen on board sea-going vessels of the Indian 

Navy will, if accompanied by a good report, be accepted in full for 
the Second Mate’s Foreign-going or Mate’s Home Trade Certificates 
provided that a reasonable proportion of such time has been spent at 
sea, and that not more than four Weeks have been spent on leave. 

(ii) The time spent by officers (other than Midshipmen) up to and including 

the rank of Lieutenant when undergoing training with the Indian 
Navy will, subject to a good report be accepted in full if sea-going 
service, or at half rate if shore based service for the Master’s or First 
Mate’s Foreign-going or Master's Home Trade Certificate. 

(iii) Service of officers appointed for temporary duty in the Fleet in lieu of 

Indian Navy officers, or of officers serving in the Fleet on mobilisation, 
or in a special emergency, will be accepted in full if sea-going, or at 
half rate if shore based for the Master’s or First Mate’s Foreign-going 
or Master’s Home Trade Certificate. 

Doubtful cases are to be referred to the Chief Examiner of Masters and 
Mates for decision. 

(2) Where a balance of Indian Naval Reserve service under Clause (ii) or 
Clause (iii) above remains after the requisite amount has been counted towards 
the qualifying period of sea service for admission to the First Mate’s examination, 
candidates may apply to count this balance for the purposes of the Master’s 
examination, subject to the total allowance for each grade of certificate not exceed- 
ing six months. Such applications are to be forwarded together with the relevant 
papers to the Chief Examiner of Masters and Mates for decision. 

55. Service in the Indian Air Force. — Officers with certificates as Second Mate 
or First Mate who hold short service commissions in the Indian Air Force will, if 
accompanied by a good report, be allowed to count towards qualifying sea service 
for certificates of competency as First Mate or Master respectively, half the time 
spent under instruction in aviation at a flying training school or with a home 
defence unit, and half the time spent in a fleet air arm or naval co-operation unit, 
up to a maximum of six months in all for each grade of certificate. 

Apprentices and seamen holding short service commissions in the Indian Air 
Force will, if accompanied by a good report, be allowed to count towards qualifying 
sea' service for a Second Mate’s certificate or a Mate’s Home Trade certificate hair 
the time spent under instruction in aviation at a flying training school or with a 
home defence unit and half the time spent in a fleet air arm or naval co-operation 
unit up to a maximum of six months in all, provided that the total remission of 
sea service in respect of I.A.F. service and time spent in a shore training ship or 
school shall not in any event exceed twelve months. 

56. Excursion steamers. — In the case of excursion steamers, only such service 
as can be proved to have been performed at sea will be accepted. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1525 


57. Service in Fishing or Pilot vessels.— Subject to sub-rule (c) of this rule 

-.service performed exclusively in trawlers and other deep sea-fishing vessels, or in 
pilot vessels, will count at two-thirds rate towards qualifying for a certificate of 

competency as Second Mate, but will count in full for home trade certificates of 

competency. In addition to such service in trawlers or in Pilot vessels, a candi- 
date must prove the following service: — 

(a) For a foreign-going certificate, service for at least 18 months in an 

ordinary trading vessel in the foreign trade, or the equivalent period 
(27 months), in the home or coasting trade. 

(b) For a home trade certificate, service for at least twelve months in an 

ordinary trading vessel in the foreign, home or coasting trade. 

(c) All claims of candidates for service performed in fishing or pilot vessels 

are to be forwarded to the Chief Examiner for scrutiny and his decision 
in the matter will be final. 

58. Service in Yachts.— Service in pleasure yachts will be accepted as qualifying 
service under the following conditions: — 

(a) It must always be verified by satisfactory proofs, which must set out 

clearly and in detail the nature and duration of the service claimed. 
(It must be clearly understood that only actual sea service will be 
accepted, and that service in harbour or port is inadmissible). 

(b) Service in foreign-going yachts will be accepted in full, service per- 

formed within home trade limits in sailing yachts of not less than 50 
tons net register or in steam yachts of not less than 80 tons gross 
register will be accepted in the proportion stated in rule 38, but candi- 
dates must also show:— (1) For a foreign-going certificate service for 
at least 18 months in an ordinary trading vessel in the foreign 
or for the equivalent period, 27 months, in an ordinary trading 
in the home or coasting trade. (2) For a home trade certificate, 
Service for at least 12 months in an ordinary trading vessel in the, 
foreign home or coasting trade. ” 

<e) Service within home trade limits in sailing yachts of not less than 20 
tons net register, or in steam yachts of not loss than 40 tons gross 
register, will be accepted towards qualifying a candidate for a foreign- 
going certificate as equivalent to half the same time served in the 
foreign trade, but no amount of such service shall count as more than 
two years’ service in the foreign trade, and no such service shall count 
as officers' service to qualify candidates for foreign-going certificates, 

(d) Service within home trade limits in sailing yachts of not less than 20 

tons net register, or in steam yachts of not less than 40 tons gross 
register, will be accepted at the ordinary rate as qualifying service for 
home trade certificates, but candidates must prove that they have in 
addition served for at least 12 months in an ordinary trading vessel 
in the foreign, home or coasting trade, for each grade of certificate. 

(e) Service within home trade limits in sailing yachts of less than 20 tons 

net register, or in steam yachts of less than 40 tons gross register, will 
not be accepted as qualifying service for any class of certificate. 

59. Service in Tugs, Defence Department vessels, etc. — Service performed in 
"tugs employed outside partially smooth water limits will be accepted as sea service 
for the purpose of qualifying a candidate for a Mate’s or Master’s certificate for 
"home trade ships only. 

Service performed in foreign-going tugs will be accepted in full (subject to the 
provisions of rule 39) for the purpose of qualifying a candidate for a foreign-going 
•certificate on the following conditions: — 

(a) that, of the qualifying service for a Second Mate’s certificate at least one 

year must have been served in ordinary trading ships in the foreign- 
going trade or its home trade equivalent; 

(b) that, of the qualifying service performed between the Second Mate’s and 

Master’s examinations, at least one year must have been served in a 
qualifying capacity in an ordinary trading vessel in the foreign-going 
trade or its home trade equivalent, of which the equivalent of six 
months’ foreign-going service must have been performed before quali- 
fying for examination as First. Mate. 

Service performed in Defence Department vessels employed outside partially 
smooth water limits (see rule 61) will be accepted as sea service to qualify a can- 
didate for a Mate’s or Master’s certificate for home trade ships only. This service 


trade, 

vessel 



[Part II — Sec. 3 - 


1526 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


will not be accepted towards qualifying a candidate for a foreign-going certificate,, 
other than in exceptional circumstances, when the case, together with all the candi- 
date’s papers, will be forwarded to the Chief Examiner of Masters and Mates for 
consideration and his decision in the matter will be final, 

60. Service in dredgers . —Service in steam hopper barges will, subject to the 
provisions of rule 61, be allowed to count towards qualifying a candidate for a 
Mate’s certificate of competency for home trade ships, provided that the candidate 
can prove at least two years’ service in an ordinary trading vessel in either the 
home, coasting or foreign trade. Service in steam hoppers will not be accepted 
as officer’s service towards qualifying a candidate for a Master’s certificate. 

61. Service on Rivers . — Service performed on rivers, no matter of what size, 
and service performed entirely within smooth or partially smooth water limits 
will not be. accepted. 

In doubtful cases, the candidate must, before the acceptance of the service 
can be considered, produce a certificate from the Master or Owner of the vessel In 
which the service was performed. 

62, Service in Cable Ships or Fleet Auxiliaries . — A candidate, part of whose 
qualifying service has been performed in cable ships or Fleet Auxiliaries (other 
than freighting tankers), will be required to produce, in addition to the usual 
evidence of sea service, a statement or certificate from the owners of the ship 
showing the amount of time actually spent at sea. If the time so spent constitutes 
or exceeds two-thirds of the total time on articles, this total time will be accepted 
in full as qualifying service, but in the event of the actual sea service falling below 
this proportion, the deficiency must be made up by additional service at sea before 
the total time on articles can be accepted in full as qualifying service. 

63, Lighthouse tenders, etc.-— Service performed in the sea-going Lighthouse 
Tenders and Fishery Cruisers, will be accepted as sea service for the purpose of 
qualifying a candidate for examination for a home trade certificate. For a foreign- 

f oing certificate, however, a candidate must show in addition to this service 
alculated in accordance with rule 37 at least twelve months in an ordinary trading, 
vessel for each grade of certificate. 

64. Service in Lightships . — Service in lightships will not be accepted as sea 
service. 


CHAPTER V 

Success and Failure in the Examination 

65. The marking of the whole of the written portion of the examination, with 
the exception of the papers on chart work, will be carried out by the Central 
Board of Examiners consisting of the Chief Examiner, the Nautical Surveyor on 
the Nautical Adviser's staff and an additional Nautical Surveyor if required. 

For his written work, the candidate will be furnished with sheets of blank' 
ruled paper on which he will be required to answer in a clear and legible hand 
the questions on the paper, and to start each answer by writing in the margin 
the number of the question to which it relates. 

To pass in the written portion, a candidate will be required to obtain the 
appropriate percentage pass in the subjects shown in the following tables and 
also to obtain 70 per cent, of the total marks for all subjects. The time and 
marks allotted for each written part of the examination for each grade of certi- 
ficate will be as follows: — 


I. — ■ 

First Day : 

Second Mate ( foreign-going ) 

Time 

Marks 

%Pass 

(1) General Ship Knowledge 

hours 

3 

200 


(2) Mathematics 

2 

150 

50 

Second Day: 

(3) Practical Navigation 

3 

200 

70 

(4) Chart Work and Pilotage 

2 

200 

70 

Third Day : 

(5) Principles of Navigation 

, . , . . . . . 1 

150 

5 ° 

(6) English 

i£ 

lOO 

30 



I .,000 

70 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1527 


Fourth or Subsequent Days — Orals. 


2 — First 

First Day ; 

Mate ( foreign-going ) 

Time 

hours 

Cl) Practical Navigation 
(2) Chart Work and Pilotage 

3 rs 

2 

Stcond Day ; 


(3) Ship Construction 

(4) Meteorology 

* - • • • * 3 

2 


Third Day : 

(5) Ship Maintenance, Routtine and Cargo Work . . 3 

(6) Elementary Magnetism Electricity and Gyro 

Compass . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 


Fourth or Subsequent Day — Orals. 

3 . — Master ( foreign-going ) 

Time 

hours 


First Day : 

l) Practical Navigation ...... 3 

(2) Magnetic and Gyro Compass .... 3 

Second Day; 

(3) Ship Construction and Stability .... 3 

(4) Shipmaster’s Business ...... 2 

Third Day 

(5) Elementary engineering and Electricity including 

Electronic Navigational Aids .... 3 

(6) Meteorology 2 


Fourth or Subsequent Days — Orals. 

4. Mate ( home trade ) 


First Day : 

(1) Practical Navigation ...... 3 

(2) Elementary Ship Knowledge ..... 2 

Second Day : 

(3) Chart Work and Pilotage ..... 2 

(4) Meteorology ij 


Third or Subsequent Days — Orals- 

5. Master ( home trade ) 


First. Day$ 

(1) Chart Work and Pilotage ..... 2 

(2) Practical Navigation ...... 2 

Second Day : 

(3) Stability and Seaworthiness ..... 2 

(4) Compass Deviation ...... ij 

Third Day 

(5) Meteorology ....... ij 


Marks 

%Pass 

200 

70 

150 

70 

200 

50 

100 


200 

jo 

150 


1,000 

70 

Marks 

% Pass 

200 

70 

200 

50 

200 

50 

150 

50 

150 


100 


1,000 

70 


150 

70 

IJO 

50 

150 

70 

100 


550 

70 


150 

70 

150 

70 

200 

JO 

IOO 


100 


700 

70 


Fourth or Subsequent Days — Orals- 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 8 


66. Partial Passes. — A pass in either the written, oral or signals part of the 
■examinations will remain valid for a period of six months, and if the qandiaate 
secures a pass in all parts during this period he will be awarded a certificate o± 
■competency. If more than six months have elapsed since the candidate passed 
any portion of the examination he will be required to take that portion again 
although the Director General of Shipping may, in special circumstances, extend 
this period to one year. 

Candidates failing in the oral portion of an examination for a certificate of 
competency through serious weakness in practical knowledge may, at the 
Examiner’s discretion, be required to perform further sea service before being 
re-examined. Such sea service will not exceed six months and may be performed 
in any capacity on deck in any sea-going ship. 

In the case of a second failure or any subsequent failure in the written or oral 
portions, or both, of the examination for a certificate of competency, two months 
must elapse from the date of the last failure before the candidate can be re- 
examined. 

67. Non-Attendance at Oral Examination. — Candidates for any grade of certi- 
ficate should proceed to the oral examination whether or not they have passed 
in the written portion. A candidate who does not proceed to the oral examination 
at the time appointed will be regarded as having failed in the oral examination 
and also in the written examination unless he produces a medical certificate or 
other satisfactory evidence that he was unable to attend the oral examination. 

68. Examination in Signalling.— A candidate who is eligible by sea service for 
■ examination for any grade of certificate in which signalling is required may take 
this part of the examination during any week in which examinations for Masters 
and Mates are held within the six months immediately before or after he presents 
himself for examination in the written and oral portions. If the signal portion 
is taken separately the special fee (see rule 93) must be paid for eaeh attempt. 

69. Unsuccessful candidates may be examined for certificates of lower grade.— 
If a candidate fails in the examination for a foreign-going certificate, and the 
subjects in which he has failed are not included in the syllabus prescribed for a 
foreign-going certificate of a lower grade, he may, if he so desires, be examined 
for the lower grade certificate without further formal application or payment of 
fee. He will, however, be required to complete the whole of the work prescribed 
for such lower grade. No portion however of the fee he has paid will be refunded 
to him, and on presenting himself when qualified for re-exammation for the higher 
grade certificate, he must pay a further fee in full. 

70. Corrections by Tables. — In the Principles of Navigation paper for Second 
Mate (foreign-going) the correction of altitudes by total correction tables will 
not be allowed. Every correction must appear on the papers of the candidate. 

71. Candidates may use own Method. — Candidates will be allowed to work out 
the various problems according to any method which they have been accustomed 
to use, provided that such method is correct in principle. 

72. Degree of Precision Required.- — When making calculations for obtaining a 
ships’s position, candidates are exoected to work 0-2 of a minute of arc and to 

the nearest second of time. 

The method of calculation used in obtaining a position line should be capable 
of giving an answer within O' 5 of a mile. 

In calculation of compass errors, bearings and courses, the answer should be 
worked out to within 0-25 of a degree, but in chart work O' 5 of a degree is 
■sufficient. 

In calculating the correction to apply to soundings, it will be sufficient if the 
-candidate’s answer is within half a foot of a precise result. 

73. Compass Deviation. — In answering questions on the tentative method of 
■compass adjustment, the candidate may be tested by Beall’s Compass Deviaseopc. 

74. Sextant— Particular attention will he paid to the sextant, the examination 
in which (for all grades) will be conducted orally and practically. Every candi- 
date will be required to measure both vertical and horizontal angles, and will be 
examined practically as to his knowledge of the adjustments and the use of the 
various screws. He must he able to read correctly on and off the arc, and to And 
the index error both by the horizon and by the sun. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1529 


75. Rule of the Road. — In the examination on Rule of the Road, the Examiner 
will test the candidate’s knowledge of the sense and intention of the Rules of 
the Collision Regulations. Mere ability to repeat the Rules word for word will 
not suffice to ensure the candidate’s passing, nor will the lack of it necessarily 
entail failure, provided that the Examiner is satisfied that the candidate grasps 
the full significance, content, and practical application of the Rules. Examiners 
will not ask for the content of the Rules by their numbers hut by the subject 
with which they deal and they will discourage the use by candidates of verses 
ns aids to memorising the Rules. Examiners will not place a candidate for a 
steamship certificate in the position of handling a sailing ship, but will lay stress 
-on the candidate’s ability to recognise a sailing ship’s lights and on his knowledge 
of a sailing ship’s possible manoeuvres according to the direction of the wind. 

76. No candidate to be examined in successive weeks. — A candidate will not 
Re allowed to undergo examination for the same grade of certificate twice in 
successive weeks, unless, under very special and urgent circumstances, the 
Examiner should see fit to relax this rule. 

CHAPTER VI 

Rut.es Concerning the Conduct of the Examinations 

77. The examinations will begin each day at a time appointed by the Examiner. 
A luncheon interval will be given each day generally between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. 
As far as possible, candidates will be given ample notice of the day and time 
of their oral examination. 

78. Punctuality. — Candidates must appear punctually at the examination room 
at the time appointed. 

79. No Strangers admitted. — No person (other than those whose duties require 
them to be present) will be allowed in the room during the examination. 

Instructors will not be allowed on the premises. 

80. Loose Papers and Books. — Before the examination begins, the tables or 
desks will be cleared of all scraps of paper and books (other than those permitted 
in the examination room). 

81. Use of Books and Tables. — The following tables and books will be supplied 
by the Central Government at the examination rooms: — 

Nautical Tables (including logarithm tables) Norie (full edition). 

Alt-Azimuth Tables. — Burdwood, Davis. 

Admiralty Tide Tables.- — European Waters, Pacific Ocean and adjacent Seas, 
Atlantic and Indian oceans. 

Surveyor General of India, Tide Tables. — Indian Ocean. 

Nautical Almanac. — 1952 Abridged Edition. 

Candidates who wish to use other tables than the above may bring such tables 
into the examination room, on condition that they submit them to the Examiner 
for scrutiny and approval before the examination begins. These tables must not 
contain any manuscript notes. Subject to the Examiner’s approval, no restriction 
will be placed on the use of any tables, but candidates must understand the theory 
cn which the tables are based, and such tables must be capable of giving an answer 
within the required limits of accuracy (see rule 72). When tables other than 
those supplied by the Central Government are used in answering a question, the 
name of the tables and a note of what is actually obtained from them should be 
stated on the candidate’s paper. 

82. Use of Instruments.- — All instruments necessary for use in the examinations 
•are supplied by the Central Government but candidates will be allowed to use 
their own drawing instruments and slide rules provided that the Examiner's 
approval is obtained before the examination begins, If a slide rule is used, a 
note to this effect should be entered on the candidate’s answer paper. 

83. Unauthorised books and papers strictly forbidden. — Candidates are forbidden 
to bring books or papers of any kind whatever, other than nautical tables, into 
the examination room. If this rule is infringed, the offender will be regarded 
-as having failed and he will not be allowed to present himself for re-examfnation 
for a period of three months. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


1530 


A candidate who uses his own nautical tables or instruments without first 
obtaining the permission of the Examiner will be treated similarly. 

84. Injury to Books, Instruments, etc . — If a candidate defaces, blots, writes in, 
or otherwise injures any book or form or damages any instrument belonging to 
the Central Government, his papers will be retained until he has replaced the- 
damaged book, document or instrument. He will not be allowed to remove the 
damaged book or document or instrument, and may be regarded as having failed, 

85. Leaving room or building.— No candidate may leave the examination room 
without permission and without giving up the paper on which he is engaged. 
Under no circumstances will a candidate be allowed to leave the building while 
the examination is proceeding. A candidate who breaks this rule will be regarded 
as having failed the examination. 

86. Silence . — Silence must be kept in the examination room. 

87. All work to be shown .- — No candidate will be allowed to work out his; 
problems on waste paper, or to write on the blotting paper supplied for his use 
in the examination. A candidate who breaks this rule will be regarded as having, 
failed the examination. 

A sheet of blotting paper will be Issued to each candidate with the first 
examination paper, and it must be returned each day to the Examiner when the 
last paper is completed. The Examiner will be careful to see that the blotting 
paper has not been used by the candidate in solving his problems, or for conveying 
information to other candidates. 

88. Penalty for copying, etc .— In the event of any candidate being discovered 
referring to any unauthorised book or paper, or copying from another, or affording, 
any assistance or giving any information to another, or communication in any 
way with another during the time of examination, or copying any part of the 
problems for the purpose of taking them out of the examination rooms, he will 
be regarded as having failed, and will not be allowed to present himself for re- 
examination for a period of six months. 

A candidate guilty of a second offence of this kind will not be allowed to- 
present himself for re-examination until 12 months have elapsed. 

89. Punishment for misconduct .— Where in the opinion of the Director General 
of Shipping a candidate has been guilty of any misconduct in relation to an 
examination (including insolence to any Examiner or disorderly or improper 
conduct in or about the room where the examination is held) or a breach of any 
of these rules, the candidate may be punished in one or more of the following 
ways: — 

(a) where the examination has not commenced or is not completed, the 

candidate may not be permitted to appear in the examination or, as 
the case may be, to take further part therein; 

(b) where the result of the examination has been declared, the result of 

the candidate may be amended; 

(c) where the candidate has been declared successful in the examination. 

but has not been granted the necessary certificate, the certificate may 
be withheld, for such period as the Central Government may direct; 

(d) the candidate may be debarred from appearing In any examination. 

under these Rules for such period as the Central Government may 
direct. 


CHAPTER VII 
Fees 

90. Fees always paid first . — Candidates for examination and persons enquiring 
as to the eligibility will be required in making their application on Form Exn. 2 
(India), to pay the examination fee before any step is taken in the way of 
inquiring into their services or testing their qualifications. If the candidate Is 
found not to be eligible the fee will either be returned to him or placed to his 
credit until he is eligible. 

91. Where to pay fees — The fee for examination must be paid to the Principal 

Officer. > 

92. Fee in case of failure . — The fee paid for examination for a certificate of 
competency includes the fee of rupees two for examination in the sight tests, and 



Paht II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 I 53 I 


if a candidate fails to pass those tests, this fee will, with the exception of rupees 
two, be returned to him. 

If a candidate fails to pass any other part of the examination no part of the 
fee will be returned to him. 

93. Table of fees. — The fees are as follows: — 

Rb. As. Ps. 


Por Foreign-going Certificates : 

Second Mate . ■ . . ■ ■ ■ . . 15 o o 

First Mate . . ■ ■ . . . . . 15 o o 

Master . . . . . ■ . . . . 30 o o 

'Where a candidate for a certificate of competency is re-examined in the 

written or in the oral part of the examination only .... Half the usual fee. 


(This fee also covers an examination in signalling if taken at the same 
time). 

Signalling. — 

Where a candidate for a certificate for which signalling is required takes 
the examination in signalling separately from one or both of the re- 


maining parts of the examination, for each attempt . . . .780 

Sailing Ship Endorsement — ■ 

Where a candidate is examined for a sailing ship endorsement at the 
same time as for a certificate of competency of the same or of higher 
grade . . . . ■ . . . No fee. 

If examined separately ......... Half the usual fee 

with a minimum 

fee of Rs. 7/8/-. 

For Home Trade Certificates: 

Mate 780 

Master . . . . . . . . . . . 15 o o 

Re-cxamination in the written or in the oral part of the examination only 

(see above) ........... Half the usual fee 

with a minimum 

fee of Rs. 7/8/-. 

Signalling when taken separately (see above) . . . . .780 

Voluntary Examinations. 

Voluntary examination in' Compass Deviation . . . . .1500 

Voluntary examination in signalling ; if taken at the same time as the exa- 
mination for a certificate of competency ..... No fee. 

If taken at any other time . . - • . . . . 15 o o 

For Yachts. 

Master . . . . . - . . . . 30 e o 

Sight Tests. 

Examination in Sight tests only . . . . . . .200 


The Sight Test certificate holds good for three calendar months irrespective 
of the number of attempts a candidate may make at the examination for a 
certificate of competency within that period, The Sight Test fee paid (Rs. 2) will 
be deducted from the fee payable on the first attempt only at the examination for 
the certificate of competency. Subsequent attempts at the examination or Part 
examination within the period of three months, however, will be charged at the 
normal examination fee. 

Note. — No abatement will be made in the fee charged to a candidate for a 
certificate for goreign-going ships in consequence of his possessing a Master’s or 
.Mate’s certificate for home trade ships. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


CHAPTER VIII 
Syllabuses 

94. General . — The following rules deal with the syllabuses of examination for 
the various grades of certificates. 

In each paper throughout the syllabus, questions may be set combining one or 
more paragraphs. 

The syllabus for a higher grade in both written and orals is always to be- 
regarded as including the syllabus of that subject (if any) for certificates of lower 
grades. 

The Examiner may ask the candidate questions arising out. of the written work,, 
if he deems it necessary on account of weakness shown by the candidate. 

Second Mate (Foreign-going) 

95. Candidates should demonstrate their understanding of their work by means' 
of sketches drawn with reasonable accuracy. 

Answers to problems In practical navigation should, where appropriate, be- 
accompanied by a figure drawn reasonably to scale. 

In the paper on practical navigation, total correction of altitudes by means of 
tables may be used. In the paper on “Principles of Navigation” each correction 
must be shown separately. 

The “Principles of Navigation” and "Mathematics” papers are intended to test 
the candidates’ grasp of fundamental technical ideas and processes required in his. 
work at sea. Mathematical proofs of formulae are not required. 

96. Paper 1. (written). 

General Ship Knowledge (3 hours) 

(a) The names of the principal parts of a ship. General Ideas on ship construc- 
tion. The candidate will be expected to show his practical acquaintance with, 
longitudinal and transverse framing, beams and beam knees, watertight bulk 
heads, hatchways, rudders and steering gear, shell plating, double bottoms and 
bilges, stern frame, propeller and propeller shaft, stem tube, sounding pipes, air- 
pipes and general pumping arrangements. The stiffening and strengthening to- 
resist panting and pounding. Cause and prevention of corrosion in a ship’s 
structure. 

(b) The meaning of the terms Block Coefficient Displacement and Deadweight.. 
Use of Displacement and Tons per Inch scales to determine weights of cargo, etc.,, 
from draughts. Effect of density of water on draught. Fresh water allowance. 
The laws of floating bodies. The meaning of the terms Buoyancy and Reserve- 
Buoyancy. General understanding of Centre of Gravity and Centre of Buoyancy 
and the effect of adding and removing weights. Metacentrlc height. The danger 
of slack ballast tanks. 

(c) Rigging a ship for loading and discharging cargo and the use of derricks 
and winches. The stowage and dunnaging of cargoes including bulk cargoes. Pro- 
tection against damage by sweat. Bulk oil cargoes. Calculations of capacities 
taken up by part cargoes and of space remaining. Conversion of weight measure- 
ment of cargo into space measurement, and vice versa. Elementary ideas on the- 
making and use of cargo plans. Ventilation systems of holds and tanks. 

(d) The names and functions of various parts of a ship’s lifeboat. The types 
of construction. Capacity, buoyancy and number of persons. Care and maintenance- 
of lifeboat equipment, lifebuoys, lifejackets, line throwing appliances, fife- 
appliances, lights and sound signals. 

97. Paper 2 (written). 


Mathematics (2 hours) 

(a) Algebra.— Addition. Subtraction. Multiplication. Division, Law of Indices. 
Insertion and removal of brackets. Simple equatlons-problems. Development of 
Formulae, transposition and evaluation. Simultaneous equations of the first order 



Part IX— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 153 $. 


involving two unknown problems. Simple Factors. Fractions. The solution of 
the Quadratic Equation, Graphs. Axes of reference. Co-ordinates. Construction 
and reading of graphical diagrams, e.g., weather statistics and displacement curves. 
Problems on graphs. The ideas of ratio, proportion and variation and the appli- 
cation to simple problems. 

(b) Common Logarithms. — The practical use of logarithms to base 10; their 
use in simple calculations involving multiplication, divisions, simple powers and. 
roots. 

(c) Mensuration. — Areas and perimeters of rectangle, triangle and circle. 
Volumes and surface areas of box shaped bodies, cylinders, wedges and spheres. 
Practical applications, e.g., weight of general cargo of various shapes; volumes of 
holds, bunkers and tanks, weight of contents. 

(d) Practical Geometry. — The construction of plane triangles. Congruence of 
triangles. The right-angled triangle. Exterior angle equal to the sum of the 
interior opposite angles. Sum of" angles in a triangle. Similar triangles and 
ratio of corresponding sides. Parallel lines and transversal. Properties of circles, 
chords and tangents. Angle in a semi-circle; angles subtended by any chord of 
a circle. Forces, resultant forces and their components. The vector diagram. 

(e) Trigonometry. — -Measurement of ungles. Circular measure. Trigonometri- 
cal ratios up to one complete revolution. Haversine. Simple relationship between 
ratios. Complimentary and supplementary angles and their ratios. Simple 
Identities. Solution of right-angled and oblique-angled triangles including practi- 
cal problems based thereon. The use of the Traverse Tables for solution of right- 
angled triangles. Elementary properties of spherical triangles Solution of 
spherical triangles (given three sides or two sides and the included angle).. 
Solution of right-angled and quadrantal spherical triangles. 

98. Paper 3 (written). 


Practical Navigation (3 hours) 

(a) Practical problems on Plane, Parallel, and Mercator Sailing. 

(b) The use of the Traverse Tables to obtain the position of the ship at any 
time given compass courses and errors and the run recorded by log or calculated 
by time and estimated speed, allowing for the effects of wind and current, If any. 

(c) To find the latitude by Meridian Altitude of tho Sun or a Star. Latitude- 
by an observation of Polaris. 

(d) From an observation of the Sun or Star near the meridian to find the- 
position line and tho latitude through which it passes in a given longitude. 

(e) To determine the position line and a position through which it passes 
from an observation of the Sun or a Star out of the meridian. 

(f) To find the ship’s position of the time of the second observation by the 
use of position lines obtained from two different observations and thence the 
noon position if required. 

(g) To find the True Bearing of the Sun and Star and the deviation of the- 
compass for the direction of ship's head. 

99. Paper 4 (written). 

Chartwork and Pilotage (2 hours) 

(a) Given the variation and a table of Deviations to convert True Courses- 
into Magnetic and Compass Courses and vice versa. To find the compass course 
and distance between two positions. The effect of current on speed. Allowance 
for leeway. Given compass course steered, the speed of the ship and the direc- 
tion and rate of the current to find the true course made good. To find the course- 
to steer allowing for a current. 

(b) To fix the ship’s position on a chart by simultaneous cross bearings, bear- 
ing and range, or by wireless cross bearings applying the necessary corrections. 
To fix the ship’s position by bearings of one or more objects with the run between,, 
allowing for a current and to find the distance at which the ship will pass a 
given point. To fix the ship's position by horizontal sextant angles. 

(c) The use of clearing marks and horizontal and vertical danger angles. 



^534 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Pabt II— Sec. 3 


(d) To find the time and height of high and low water at a Standard Port 
(Admiralty Tide Tables). The use of tables or diagrams to find the height of 
tide at any given time and thence the approximate correction to be applied to 
soundings or to charted heights of shore objects. 

(e) Candidates will be examined orally on the information given on a chart or 
Plan, particularly about buoys, lights, depths and nature of bottom, contour lines, 
tides and tidal streams. Recognition of the coast. The intelligent use of Sailing 
Directions. Chart correction. 

100. Paper 5 (written). 

Principles of Navigation (3 hours) 

In this paper Candidates may be asked to draw a figure reasonably to scale 
/and to state the projection used. 

Candidates will be required to have a general understanding of the following: — - 

(a) The shape of the Earth, Poles. Equator. Meridians. Parallels of 

Latitude. The position of a place fixed by Its latitude and longitude. 
Direction, bearing, distance, units of measurement. Difference of 
latitude, difference of longitude, departure, middle latitude and 
meridional difference of latitude and the relationships between them. 
Great and small circles on a sphere. Shortest distance on the 
surface of a sphere between two points. 

(b) The celestial sphere, celestial poles, celestial meridian above and below 

poles, celestial equator, celestial horizon, zenith, prime vertical, 
circles of altitude. 

(c) Solar system. The movement of the Earth and other heavenly bodies. 

Mean Sun. Ecliptic. First Point of Arles. Declination. Right 
Ascension. Azimuth. Rising and setting of heavenly bodies. 
Length of day and night. Twilight. The position of a heavenly 
body on the celestial sphere both with and without reference to the 
observer, i.e., Azimuth with Altitude or Declination with Right 
Ascension. Recognition of stars of the 1st Magnitude by reference 
to the Principal Constellations. 

(d) Time. Greenwich and other Standard times. Mean time. Apparent 

time. Sidereal time. Equation of time. Relationship between 

longitude and time. 

(e) Hour Angle of a heavenly body in time and in arc. Greenwich Hour 

Angle of Sun, Moon, Planets and Aries. Sidereal Hour Angle of a 
Star. 

(f) Correction of Sextant altitudes. Dip, Refraction, Horizontal Parallax, 

Parallax in Altitude, Semi-Diameter and augmentation. 

(g) Geographical position of a heavenly body. A circle of position on the 

earth and its practical application, i.e , position line. Intercept. 

(h) Magnetic Meridian— Variation and Deviation. 

(i) The simple properties of a Mercator Chart. Longitude and latitude 

scales. The measurement of distance. Rhumb Lines. Meridional 
Parts. 

(j) Chronometers. Management and care, winding, rating and comparing. 

101. Paper 6 (written). 


English Ml hours) 

The paper will be designed to test the candidate’s ability to write clear and 
grammatical English with due attention to spelling, legibility and neatness. It will 
be in no sense a test of technical knowledge. This paper may consist of an essay, 
a precis or an exercise in letter writing. 

102. Oral and Practical. 

1. (a) Rigging of ships. Strength of ropes including wire ropes. Rigging 
purchases of various kinds and knowledge of power gained by purchases. Knotting 
.and splicing with strict reference to current practice. Seizings, racking's, chain 
.stoppers, etc,, 

(b) Sending topmasts up and down. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1535 


(c) Bending, setting and taking in lifeboat sails. Management of boats under 
oars or sails and in heavy weather. Beaching or landing. Coming alongside. 

(d) Helm Orders. Conning the ship. Effects of propellers on the steering 
of a ship. Stopping, going astern and manoeuvring. Turning a steamship 
short round. Emergency manoeuvres. Man overboard. 

2. (a) Marking and use of ordinary lead line. 

(b) Use and upkeep of mechanical logs and sounding appliances. 

(c) Use and upkeep of engine room and other telegraphs. 

(d) Rocket and line throwing apparatus. 

3. (a) Anchors and cables and their use and stowage. Bringing a ship to a 
single anchor in an emergency. 

(b) Knowledge of use and maintenance of deck appliances and steering gear. 

(c) The use of lifesaving appliances. 

(d) The use of Fire Appliances including the Smoke Helmet. 

4. (a) Preparations for getting under way. Duties prior to proceeding to sea, 
making harbour, entering a dock, coming alongside and securing to buoy, with 
special reference to the after end of a ship. 

(b) Keeping an anchor watch. Dragging anchor. 

(c) Duties of officer of the watch. Use of compass to ascertain risk of collision. 

5. (a) A full knowledge of the content and application of the regulations for 
preventing collisions at sea. (Sec Appendix E.) (Candidates will not be placed 
in the position of handling a sailing ship, but will be expected to recognise a 
sailing ship’s lights and to have a knowledge of her possible manoeuvres according 
to the direction of the wind). 

(b) Distress and pilot signals; penalties for misuse. 

(c) Uniform system of buoyage; wreck marking system. 

(d) A knowledge of the contents of the Ministry of Transport Book of Merchant 
Shipping Notices and the use of Admiralty Notices to Mariners. 

6. Practical. — (a) To read and understand a barometer, thermometer, hydro- 
meter, and hygrometer. (The instruments supplied by the Meteorological Office 
will be taken as standard). 

(b) To use an azimuth mirror, pelorus (bearing plate) or other instrument for 
taking bearings. 

(e) To use a sextant for taking vertical and horizontal angles; to read a sextant 
both on and off the arc. 

(d) To correct a sextant into which has been introduced one or more of 
perpendicularity, side and index errors. 

(e) To And the index error of a sextant. 

(f) To check chronometers by signal made by buzzer or other method; to 
compare two chronometers. 

103. Signals. — To send and receive signals in:- — 

(a) British Semaphore up to eight words per minute. 

(b) Morse Code by flash lamp up to six words per minute. 

(c) International Code of Signals. 

First Matk (Foreign-going) 


104. Paper 1 (written). 


Practical Navigation (3 hours) 

'This paper may include questions on the syllabus for Second Mate extended to 
include Moon and Planets. 

(a) To calculate the approximate time (to the nearest minute), of the meridian 
passage of a heavenly body; to calculate an approximate altitude for setting the 
sextant to obtuin +hc meridian altitude of a heavenly body. To find the latitude 
by the meridian altitude of a heavenly body, 

(b) To find the direction of the position line and a position through which it 
passes from an observation of a heavenly body near or out of the meridian. 



1536 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(c) To obtain the ship’s position by the combination of any two observations 
with or without run. 

(d) To calculate the initial course and the distance on a Great Circle or 
Composite Great Circle track between two positions and to determine one or more 
positions on the track. 

105. Paper 2 (written). 

Chart Work and Pilotage (2 hours) 

In addition to the syllabus for Second Mate, questions on the following may be 
asked either in the written or oral parts of this paper: — 

(a) Distance of sighting lights, distance from a point of land of known height. 

(b) Construction and use of a line of soundings. The use of a single position 
line in approaching the coast. The use of Wireless Beacons. 

(c) To find the times and heights of high and low water at a Secondary Port, 
(Admiralty Tide Tables), by tht use of Tidal Differences. 

(d) Candidates will be examined orally on the reliability of charts. Selection 
of suitable points for bearings. Approaching an anchorage and entering narrow 
waters. Land falls in thick and clear weather. 

(e) The candidates may be examined orally or practically on the use of 
Gnomonic chart and the transfer of a Great Circle or Composite track from such 
a chart to a Mercator chart and on the use of Lattice charts. 

10G. Paper 3 (written) . 

Ship Construction and Stability (3 hours) 

fa) A general knowledge of the principal structural members of a ship. The 
proper names of the various parts. Midship sections of Single deck. Tween deck 
and Shelter deck ships and Bulk-oil carriers. Functions, construction and 
stiffening of watertight bulk-heads, including collision bulkhead. Stern frame 
and stem and how secured. Rudders and the methods of attachment. Construc- 
tion, stiffening and closing arrangements of hatchways. Hawse-pipes and how 
secured. Rivets and riveting. Testing a line of rivets. Testing of tanks and other 
watertight work. 

(b) Stresses and strains in ships in a seaway or due to loading and ballasting. 
A knowledge of those parts of a ship specially strengthened to withstand such 
stresses, or where damage by excessive corrosion is liable to occur. 

(c) Ability to set out in a clear manner a report on damage sustained during 
a voyage. 

(d) Buoyancy and Reserve Buoyancy. The righting couple when a ship is 
inclined by external force. Transverse and Longitudinal metacentres. Metacentric 
Height. Initial Stability and its limitation to small angles of inclination. The 
computation of areas by Simpson’s First and Second Rules and Five-eight Rule. 

(e) Determination of Centre of Gravity of a ship in a new condition, the Centre 
of Gravity in the old condition being given. The effect on the position of the centre 
of Gravity of adding, removing or shifting weight. Stiff and tender ships. Change 
in stability during a voyage. Effect of a shift of cargo or solid ballast. The danger 
of “free surface” of liquids (without proofs or calculations), 

<f) Change of trim. (M.C.T, 1" and C.F. given). 

(g) Use of stability curves and data supplied to a ship. 

107. Paper ^(written) . 


Meteorology (2 hours) 

(a) The principles of the barometer, Mercurial and Aneroid. Marine Mercurial- 
barometer. How to read and reduce the readings to standard datum. The use of 
the Gold slide. Barograph. 

(b) The principles of the thermometer and hygrometer and their uses at sea. 

(c) The principle and use of the hydrometer. 

(d) A knowledge of the distribution of mean pressure and the prevailing winds 
and current systems of the globe. Relationship between pressure distribution 

and wind. Buy’s Ballot’s Law. 



-Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1537 


(e) The characteristics of, and weather associated with, the principal pressure 
systems, e.g. anti-cyclones, depressions. Permanent and semi-permanent anti- 
cyclones and depressions and their effects, e.g. Trades, Monsoons, 

(f) Tropical revolving storms, their localities, seasons and tracks. Rules for 
avoiding tropical storms. Use of barometric observations at a single station in 
conjunction with weather signs. 

(g) Water vapour in the atmosphere, evaporation, condensation, precipitation, 
meaning of saturation, relative humidity, formation of clouds, fog and mist. 

(h) Anabatic and Katabatic Winds. Land and Sea Breezes. 

(i) The Beaufort wind scale and weather notation in use at sea. Methods 
of estimating direction and force of wind at sea. 

( j'; A knowledge of the types of weather messages adopted by the International 
Meteorological Organisation which arc available to shipping. Coding and decoding 
messages contained in Part V and VI of Weather Messages for Shipping. 

108. Paper 5 (written). 

Ship Maintenance, Routine and Cargo Work. (3 hours) 

(a) Keeping a ship’s log (Mate’s log). 

(b) Organisation of crew for routine, maintenance and emergency duties. 

(c) Inspection and maintenance of the ship and her equipment, e.g. bulkheads, 
double bottoms, deep tanks, bilges, pipelines, strums, rudder, anchors and cables 
and steering gear. Drainage of holds and tanks. Drydocking routine. 

(d) Properties and uses of paints and other protective covering. Scaling and 
painting. Treatment of woodwork. Cement work. 

(c) Indents and stores. Repair lists. 

(f ) Simple calculations of stresses in spans, derricks, topping lifts, etc., 
Strength of ropes, wire ropes and chains. Various types of ropes, wire ropes, 
slings and their uses. Purchases and power gained. 

fg) Use and maintenance of cargo working gear and the organisation of cargo 
work. A knowledge of relevant parts of the Factory Act and Indian Dock 
Labourer’s Regulations. General principles of cargo stowage and handling, e.g. 
dunnaging, ventilation and slinging. The carriage of special cargoes such as 
Refrigerated Cargoes, Steel Rails, Liquids in bulk, Deck Cargoes and Timber Deck 
Cargoes, Bulk Stowage. The use of shifting boards. Separation. Precautions 
to be taken with solid ballast. Ventilation of different types of cargoes. Sweat — 
its cause and prevention. 

(h) Given a cargo list, to stow a hold or holds, making a rough stowage plan, 
having regard to stability, behaviour of vessel in a seaway, damage and contami- 
nation of cargo, and accessibility at optional ports of discharge. 

109. Paper 6 ( written ) . 

Elementary Magnetism, Electricity and the Gyro Compass, (2 hours) 

1. Magnetism. — (a) A simple magnet. Poles of magnet. The law of attrac- 
tion and repulsion. The molecular theory of magnetism as applied to ferrow- 
magnetic materials. The conception of magnetically “hard” and “soft” iron. The 
^hape qf the magnetic held round a magnet. The meaning of the terms Inten- 
sity of Magnetisation, Magnetic Susceptibility and Permeability. No mathemati- 
cal formulae will be required. 

(b) The Earth’s magnetic field. The Earth’s magnetic poles. Magnetic 
e.quator. The Earth’s total magnetic force. Angle of dip. Horizontal and 
vertical components. Magnetic variation. No mathematical formulc will bo 
required. 

(c) The effect of constraining a compass needle to the horizontal plane. The 
effect of introducing a disturbing force into the vicinity of a compass needle. 

(d) The care and maintenance of different types of ship’s compasses. 

.. 2. Electricity. — (a) A simple conception of the Electronic Theory. Current, 

difference of potential resistance and their units. Ohms Ldw. Effect of an 
electric current (i) heating effect. Power. The electric unit; (ii) Chemical 
effect. Simple cells, primary and secondary; Ciii) Magnetic effect. Field due 
to a current. Field of a current carrying solenoid and the effect of introduction 
of ferro magnetic material into such a field. Magneto-striction, 



[Paht II— Sec. 3 


1538 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


(b) The electric motor. Measuring Instruments — moving coil and moving 
iron. Electro-magnetic induction. Movement of a conductor in a field. Varia- 
tion in magnitude of a field. Effect of make and break of a current. Induction 
coil. Unit of Inductance. Dynamo Principle — simple commutator. 

(c) Electro-static Held. Unit of capacity. Condensor of Capacitor. 

(d) Fuses, switches and simple ship’s circuits. Use of measuring instruments. 
How to measure current and voltage. 

(e) Principal symbols used in diagrams. 

3. Gyro-compass . — A simple non-mathematical treatment of the following: The 
principle of the Free Gyroscope. The effect of the earth’s rotation. Tilt and 
drift. Precession. Gravity control. Damping, 

110. Oral. 


1. (a) Shifting large spars and rigging sheers. 

(b) The handling of heavy weights with special reference to strength of gear 
used. 

(c) Use and care of all deck and above deck appliances and fittings — winches, 
capstans, windlasses, emergency steering gear, and fittings used between anchor 
and cable locker. Hoisting in boats. 

2. Anchors . — Different kinds; advantages and disadvantages of each. Cables 
and their care. Preparations for anchoring. Operation of anchoring with single 

anchor and use of second anchor. Clearing a foul anchor. Mooring, Clearing 
a foul hawse. Anchoring in a tideway and in a confined space. Slipping a 
cable. To carry out an anchor with boats. Getting under way. 

3. (a) Coming alongside of a wharf, etc. Manoeuvring in rivers and harbours. 
Effects of current, wind, shallows and draught on manoeuvring. 

(b) Management of steamships in stormy weather. Means to employ to keep 
a vessel, disabled or unmanageable, out of the trough of the sea and lessen her 
lee drift. 

(c) To take a cast of the deep sea lead. 

4. (a) An outline knowledge of the regulations concerning Lifesaving 
Appliances. 

(b) Accidents, e.g. collision, running aground, accidents to hatches, leaks fires 
and their treatment. Running repairs. Handling a disabled ship. 

(c) A practical knowledge of the screening of ship’s navigation lights. 

(d) Preparations for drydocking and undocking. Use. of shores, bilge blocks 
and bilge shores. 


5. Regulations for preventing collisions 
(Oral and Practical: Second Mate). 


at sea, etc. as in rule 102 para 5(a) 


111. Signals . — To send and receive signals in: — 

(a) British Semaphore up to eight words per minute. 

(b) Morse Code by flash lamp up to six words per minute. 

(c) International Code of Signals. 

2. The Practical use of shipborne W./T.D./F. 


Master (Foreign-Going) 

112. Paper 1 (written). 


Practical Navigation (3 hours) 

(a) A short recanitulation paper in Navigation on the syllabus for Second Mate 
and First Mate which may include Chart Work and Pilotage. 

(b) The Admirlty Method of Tidal Predictions and the use of Harmonic 
Constants. (Admiralty Tide Tables). 

113. Paper 2 (written). 

Magnetic and Gyro Compass (3 hours) 

is required fof Firet Ma°te ° f ^ eleraentary Principles of Magnetism than 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 19S4 


1539 


(a) The inverse square law, simple problems involving unit poles, The field, 

strength, magnetic moment of a magnet, the period of a suspended magnet 

vibrating in tire earth’s field. 

(b) Magnetic Compass. The method of determination and compensation by- 

means of components of the effects of the ship’s magnetic field on the magnetic 

compass. The Approximate Coefficients A, B, C, D and E and their use, Condi- 

tions which might produce Coefficients A and E. Constants Lamda and Mu. The 
ship’s Multiplier. Methods of obtaining a table of deviations. Analysis of a 
table of deviations to obtain Approximate Coefficients. To determine the devia- 
tion caused by the ship’s permanent magnetism and/or induced magnetism in 
vertical soft iron by means of observation taken in two widely separated Magnetic 
Latitudes. 

(c) General Principles of Compass Correction and the method of correction for 
Coefficients B, C and D. 

The cause and effect of retentive magnetism and Gaussin error. 

Siting of compasses with particular reference to the proximity of magnetic 
material and electrical appliances. Heeling error, its cause, effects and the 
method of correction. Effect of heeling error magnets on soft iron correctors. 

(d) Gyro Compass.— A fuller knowledge of the theory than that required for 
First Mate, but mathematical proofs will not be required. 

To include in addition to the above, — Course and speed error. Correction for 
latitude. Ballistic deflection and its relation to Course and Speed Error. Rolling 
Error and how it is minimised. 

The principal parts of a gyro compass and the repeating system. The more 
important fundamental differences in the construction of the better known types 
of gyro compasses and the methods used to eliminate or allow for the principal 
errors. ■» 


114. Paper 3 (written). 

Ship Construction and Stability. (3 hours) 

(a) A fuller knowledge of ship construction than is required for lower grade 
certificates. The Scrieve Board and its uses. Bending Slab and methods of 
bending. General structure. Keels, framing, stem, stern frame and rudder posfi 
transverse and longitudinal girders, centre through plates, keelsons and inter- 
costals. double bottoms, side stringers, shell plating, bulkheads, deep tanks, pillars, 
propellers brackets, rudders. Superstructures. Masts and derricks. 

(b) Types of vessels, e.g., General traders and bulk oil carriers. Strength and 
construction in relation to their trade. 

(cl Classification of ships, Surveys. General ideas of Tonnage measurement. 
Freeboard and a general outline of conditions of assignment. 

(d) Immediate treatment of accident damage — collision, bad weather, stranding. 
General ideas on welding in ship repair work. Drawing up of simple specifications. 
The direction of simple repairs. 

(e) A fuller knowledge of stability than is required for First Mate. Simple 
calculations involving volumes, moments and effects of free surface of liquids 
(Proofs of formulae will not be required). Effects of bilging and flooding com- 
partments. Permeability. Trim und Moment to change trim. Stability and trim 
-when grounding. The inclining Experiment. Effect of beam and freeboard on 
stability. Practical operations to ensure ship stability at Sea: — Deck cargoes 
homogeneous cargoes, suspended weights and cargoes liable to shift. Dangers of 
a ship with heavy list and precautions when righting. Management of ballast 
tanks. Ballasting. 


115. Paper 4 (written). 


Ship Master’s Business (2 hours) 

(Tile legal knowledge required will not go beyond the outline of the Merchant 
Shipping Acts and Mercantile Law which a ship-master must know in order to 
conduct the business of a ship) . 


(a) Registration of ships. The Certificate of Registry and its legal significance. 

(b) Certificates and other Documents required to be carried on a ship how 
they are obtained and the period of their legal validity. Suez and Panama Canal 
Certificates. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


1540 


(c) Engagement, discharge and management of ship’s crew. Managing qualifica- 
tions. Ship’s Articles of Agreement. Wages and other renumeration. National 
Insurance contributions. Discipline and treatment of offences. Fines and forfei- 
tures Deserters, deceased seamen, engagement of substitutes. 

(d) The official log book and the law relating to entries. 

(e) Crew accommodation, 

(f) Hygiene of ships, living spaces, holds, etc, Water Fresh and preserved food. 
Procedure required on board in cases of infectious disease, illness or accident. 
Quarantine procedure. Fumigation. 

(g) Entering and Clearing' ship. 

(h) Loadline marks and their general and seasonal use. Entries and reports 
to be made respecting freeboard and draught. 

(i) The safety of the ship, crew and passengers. Assistance of vessels in 
distress and salvage. Duties in case of collision and accident. 

( j ) The law relating to the reporting of ice and derelicts. Compulsory and 
non-compulsory pilotage. 

(k) The meaning of the terms “passenger ship” and “emigrant ship”, “pilgrim 
ship” and “unberthed passenger ship”. 

(l) A general knowledge of shipping practice and documents with particular 
‘reference to Charter parties and Bills of Lading, and an understanding of their 

E rincipal clauses, e.g., Freight, Deviation, Always Afloat, Ice, Lay-days, 
lemurrage, Despatch, Protests, Certificate of Seaworthiness. A simple knowledge 
of the law relating to carriage of cargo and the ship owners liabilities and duties. 

(m) A knowledge of the more important clauses contained in a Policy 1 of 
Marine Insurance. The meaning of Average. Particular Average. General 
Average. Procedure in the case of General Average. Procedure at a port of 
refuge. Lloyd’s Agents. 

116. Paper 5 (written). 

Elementary Engineering and Electricity Including Electronic Navigation Aids 

(3 hours) 

1, Engineering, — (a) The meaning of hte general engineering terms, sensible 
heat, latent heat, saturated steam, super-heated steam, work and power, horse 
power, propeller pitch, slip. 

(b) A simple knowledge of the following. — Types of marine boilers, coal and 
oil furnaces; Procedure for raising steam. The action of the reciprocating 
steam engine, turbine machinery and diesel engines. Procedure when warming 
up, turning, starting, stopping and reversing engines. 

(c) The use of the condenser, evaporator and hot well. Use of circulating, 
air, feed bilge and ballast pumps. Valve chests, 

(d) Fuel consumption and economical speeds, estimation of minimum fuel 
consumption to complete a given voyage. Simple slip problems. 

(e) A simple knowledge of the types of refrigeration systems used on board 
ships. 

2. Electricity . — (a) The simple alternator. Alternating current; frequency, 
phase relationship between two alternating quantities; effects of inductance, 
capacity and resistance. Resonance. Tuned circuits. The power transformer. 
The simple telephone and microphone. 

(b) R. F. oscillations. Radiation of electro-magnetic waves in free space — 
frequency, velocity and wavelength and their relationship. Reception of electro- 
magnetic waves. Effects of the Ionosphere— ground wave, sky wave. 

• 

(c) Thermionic calves. Thermal emission. Diode valve — use as a rectifier. 
Triode valve, use as voltage amplifier and use as simple oscillator. 

(d) Cathode ray tube— construction and action; electro-static and electro- 
magnetic deflection. The time base as applied to C.R.T. 

(3) Electronic Navigation Aids.~( a) A simple knowledge of how Radar works. 
Displays, range and bearing discrimination, calibration, range strobes, monitoring, 
spurious echoes, side lobe effects, blind sectors, anomalous propogation and weather 
effects. Its use as an anti-collision device and navigational aid and an apprecia- 
tion of its limitations. 



Part II— Sec. 8] 


1541 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1054 

(b) The general principles underlying Hyperbolical Navigation. Fundamental 
differences between various systems. 

(c) A general knowledge ol ship W/T direction finding; Rotating loop and 
goniometer systems. Maximum and minimum signals; Sense. Quadrantal 
error. Calibration, Sunset and sunrise effects. Land effects. A general 
knowledge of shore-based W/T. directional systems. 

(d) The general principles of echo sounding. Methods of transmission. Timing 
device. The receiver. Methods of recording. Reliability of indications. 

117, Paper 6. 


Meteorology (2 hours) 

In addition to the Syllabus for First Mate: — 

(a) The principal cloud types. 

(b) Simple ideas of air masses and fronts, 

(c) Adiabatic changes in the atmosphere. Stability and instability, 

(d) The frontal theory of the formation of depressions. 

(e) To construct a synoptic chart, (excluding fronts) from a number of 

coded groups as given in parts V and VI of Weather Messages for 

Shipping. 

(f) To decode groups as given in the International Analysis Code (Part IV), 

Weather Messages for Shipping, and draw the weather map. 

(g) The use of a synoptic chart or weather map for deducing the probable 

weather and anticipated changes at a specified point or points, 

(h) The main types of floating ice and their origin. General ideas of 

distribution and seasonal movements. Navigation in the vicinity of 

ice. 

(i) General points to consider in the selection of ocean routes. 

118. Oral. 

1. (a) Exceptional circumstances. Loss of rudder; shifting a damaged 
rudder. Construction of jury rudders. Making and launching of rafts. 
Collision. Leaks. Damage of all kinds. Running repairs and precautions in 
case of accidents. Grounding — methods of refloating. Beaching a vessel. Steps 
to be taken when disabled and in distress. 

(b) Preservation of crew and passengers in the event of wreck. Abandoning 
a wrecked ship. Rockets and rocket apparatus. Communications with the shore. 

(c) Assisting a vessel in distress. Rescuing crew of a disabled ship. 

(d) Towing and being towed. 

(e) Bad weather manoeuvres. Precautions at anchor and at sea. Use of oi) 
Anchoring and working anchors and cables in all circumstances. Approaching 
rivers and harbours ana manoeuvring in them. 

(f) Drydocking. General procedure and precautions to be observed. Distri- 
bution of weight. Drydocking with full cargo for inspection of propellers or 
shafting. Bilge blocks. Leaving the vessel water borne. Putting into port 
with damage to ship and/or cargo, both from business and technical points of view. 
Safe-guarding of cargo. 

(g) Prevention of Arc at sea. Spontaneous combustion. Full knowledge of 
the use of Are appliances and the precautions to be taken in their use. Special 
reference to the extinguishing of oil fuel fires. 

(h) Methods of fumigating holds and living spaces and safeguards in applying 
them. 

. (i) General organisation of ship’s work and handling and training of crew. 
A knowledge of training facilities available to members of the crew. 

(j) Compensation and adjustment of compasses. Demonstrations on Beall’s 
Compass Deviascope or Instructional Binnacle. 

2. Regulations for preventing collisions at sea, etc. As in Rule 102, paragraph 
5(a) — (Oral and Practical Second Mate). 

119. Signals. — To send and receive signals in: — 

(a) British Semaphore up to eight words per minute. 



1542 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Pabt II — Sec. 3 


(b) Morse Code by Hash lamp up to six words per minute. 

(c) International Code of Signals. 

Mate (Home Trade) 


120. Paper 1 (written). 

Practical Navigation. (3 hours) 

(a) To find the True Bearing of the Sun and the deviation of the compass 
lor the direction of the ship’s head. 

(1>) To find the latitude by meridian altitude of the Sun. 

(c) From an observation of the Sun near the meridian to find the position 
line and the latitude through which it passes in a given longitude. 

(d) To determine the position line and the position through which it passes 
from an observation of the Sun out ot the meridian. 

121. Paper 2 (written). 

Elementary Ship Knowledge (2 hours) 

(a) Elementary ideas on ship construction. The candidate will be expected 
to show his practical acquaintance with framing shell plating, decks, water-tight 
bulkheads, sounding pipes and air pipes. 

(b) The meaning of the terms Displacement and Deadweight. Use of Dis- 
placement and Tons per inch scales to determine weights of cargo, etc., from 
draughts. Effect of density of water on draught. Fresh Water Allowance. 

(c) A general understanding of Centre of Gravity and Centre of Buoyancy 
and the effect of adding or removing weights. The danger of slack ballast 
tanks. 

(d) A knowledge of the Indian Dock Labourer’s Regulations in so far as it 
applies to ships’ requirements. 

122. Paper 3 (written). 

Chart Work and Pilotage (2 hours) 

(a) Given the Variation and a Table of Deviations to convert True Courses 
into Magnetic and Compass Courses and vice versa. To find the compass course 
and distance between two positions. The effect of current on speed. Allowance 
for leeway. To find the compass course to steer allowing for a current. Given 
compass course steered, the speed of the ship and the direction and rate of the 
current, to find the true course made good. 

(b) To fix the ship’s position on a chart by simultaneous cross bearings, 
bearing and range or by wireless cross bearings, applying the necessary correc- 
tions. To fix the ship’s position by bearings of one or more objects with the run 
between, allowing for a current and to find the distance at which the ship will 
pass a given point. The construction of a line of soundings. The use of a 
single position line approaching the coast. 

(c) The use of clearing marks and horizontal and vertical danger angles. 

(d) To find the time and height of high and low water and a Standard Port 
(Indian Tide Tables). The use of tables or diagram to find the height of tide 
at any given time and thence the approximate correction to soundings or to 
the charted heights of shore objects. 

(e) Candidates will be examined orally on the information given on a chart 
or plan, particularly about buoys, lights, depths and nature of bottom, contour 
lines, tides and tidal streams. Recognition of the coast. The intelligent use of 
Sailing Directions. Chart correction, 

123. Paper 4 (written). 


Meteorology (li hours) 

(a) The principles of the barometer. How tp read it and reduce the read- 
ings to standard datum. 

(b) How to observe the force and direction of the wind with no other 
instrument than the compass and the use of the Beaufort scale. 

(c) How to observe and log the state of sea and swell, weather and visibi- 
lity by the International scales for the use of seamen. 

(d) The principles and the use of the thermometer, dry bulb, wet bulbs and 
sea surface. 



Part II— Sec. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1545 


(e) Use of hydrometer. 

(f) General knowledge of the wind and current systems in the Indian Ocean, 
Bay of Bengal and the Malacca Strait. 

(g) Full knowledge of the Storm signals displayed in the Indian ports and 
the knowledge of the seasons and tracks of cyclones in the Indian Ocean and. 
the Bay of Bengal. 

(h) To be able to understand the meaning of weather bulletin for shipping. 
Visual and broadcast storm warnings. 

124. Oral. 

1. (a) A full knowledge of the content and the application of the regulations 
for preventing collisions at sea. (Candidates will not be placed in the position 
of handling a sailing ship, but will be expected to recognise a sailing ship’s 
lights and to have a knowledge of her possible manoeuvres according to the' 
direction of the wind). 

(b) Distress and pilot signals; penalties for misuse. 

(c) Uniform system of buoyage; wreck marking system. 

(d) the use of the rocket apparatus, 

(c) A knowledge of the contents of the Ministry of Transport Book of Mer- 
chant Shipping Notices and the use of Admiralty Notices to Mariners. 

2. (a) Marking of ordinary lead line and taking a cast. 

(b) The use and upkeep of sounding appliances and logs. 

(c) Use and care of engine room telegraphs. 

(d) Coming to anchor, the use of two anchors, Mooring to buoys. Coming 
alongside and leaving a wharf. Entering and leaving a dock. 

(e) Keeping an anchor watch. Dragging anchor, 

(f) Care, maintenance and use of the lifesaving appliances and fire appli- 
ances carried by a Home Trade Ship. 

(g) Management of boats under oars or sail and in heavy weather. Beach- 
ing or landing. Coming alongside. 

(h) Elementary knowledge of general ship maintenance. 

3. Rigging of ships, — Strength of ropes including wire ropes. Rigging pur- 
chases of various kinds and knowledge of power gained by purchases. Knotting 
and splicing with strict reference to current practice. Seizings, rackings, chain 
stoppers, etc. 

4. An elementary knowledge of cargo work, as given in the syllabus for 
First Mate, Rule 108 (Paper 5, Section (g), excluding the Factory Act). 

5. (a) To read and understand a barometer, thermometer and a hydrometer. 

(b) To use a sextant for taking vertical and horizontal angles and to find the 
index error. 

125. Signals. 

To send and receive signals in: — 

(a) British Semaphore up to eight words per minute. 

(b) Morse Code by flash lamp up to six words per minute. 

(c) International Code of Signals. 

Master (Home Trade) 

126. Paper 1 (written) . 

Chart Work and Pilotage (2 hours) 

In addition to the syllabus for Mate (Home Trade) aucstions on the following 
may be asked either in the written or oral parts of this paper: — 

(a) Distance of sighting lights. Distance of a point of land of known 

height. 

(b) The use of bearing obtained by ship’s Wireless Direction Finder and 

bearings given from a Shore Station. The use of Wireless Beacons. 

(c) Candidates will be examined orally on the selection of suitable points 

for bearings, approaching an anchorage and entering narrow waters. 

The reliability of charts. The use of Lattice Charts. 



1544 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


127. Paper 2 (written). 

Practical Navigation (2 hours) 

This paper may include questions in the syllabus for Mate (Home Trade). 

(a) To find the true bearing of any heavenly body and the deviation for the 
direction of the ship’s head. 

(b) To And the approximate time (to the nearest minute) of the meridian 
passage of a star. To find the latitude by meridian altitude of a star. Latitude 
by an observation of Polaris. 

(c) From an observation of a star near the meridian to find the position lino 
and the latitude through which it passes in a given longitude. 

(d) To determine the position line and position through which it passes from 
an observation of star out of the meridian. 

(e) Recognition of stars of the 1st Magnitude by reference to the principal 
constellations. 

128. Paper 3 ( written ) . 

Stability and Seaworthiness (2 hours) 

(a) The meaning of Metacentre, Metacentric height, Initial Stability, Righting 
Dever, Centre of Floatation, Moment to Change Trim. 

(b) Determination of the Centre of Gravity of a ship in a new condition, 
the Centra of Gravity in the old condition being given. The effect on the position 
of the Centre of Gravity of adding, removing or shifting weights. Stiff and 
tender ships. Effect of a shift of cargo or solid ballast. Cargoes liable to shift 
and precautions to be taken. Deck Cargoes. Ballasting'.* The danger of “free 
surface” of liquids (without proof or calculations). 

(c) The use of Stability Curves and the data supplied to a ship. 

(d) Simple trim problems. 

(e) Damage affecting seaworthiness. Temporary repairs at sea or in port. 
■Certificates or seaworthiness. 

(f) A knowledge of the stowage required and precautions to be taken when 
carrying certain cargoes coastwise. (See Ministry of Transport Notices.) 

129. Paper 4 ( written ) . 

Compass Deviation (14 hours) 

(a) A simple knowledge of the meaning of hard and soft iron. Simple ideas 
of the effect of hard iron, vertical soft iron and horizontal soft iron on the devia- 
tions of the compass. 

The means used to compensate for these effects with special reference to Home 
Trade ships. 

(b) Care and maintenance of magnetic compasses. Siting of compasses with 
particular reference to the proximity of magnetic material and electrical appli- 
ances. 

(c) To find the Magnetic Bearing of a distant object from compass bearings 
taken on equidistant points and to construct a table of deviations. 

130. Paper 5 (written), 

Meteorology (14 hours) 

_ As far Mate Home Trade with the additional knowledge of the law of storms 
in the Indian Ocean and the Bay of Bengal. 


131. Oral 


1. Regulations for preventing collisions at sea, etc. 
1(a), (b), (c) and (e); Oral: Mate (Home-Trade), 


As in rule 124, paragraph 


2. (a) Handling a ship in bad weather and whqn it is disabled. 

(b) Preservation of crew and passengers in the event of wreck, Abandoning 
a wrecked ship. Rockets and rocket apparatus. Communications with the shore. 

(c) Assisting a vessel in distress. Rescuing the crew of a disabled ship. 

(d) Effect of a screws on the steering of a ship. Manoeuvring a ship in rivers 
and harbours. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INPIA, JUNE 19, 1964 X 545 


3. (a) General knowledge of the requirements of the Merchant Shipping Acts 
relating to strandings, collisions or other casualties, reports to be made out in 
cases of death or injury, return of crew list, agreements and certificates of dis- 
charge, 

(b) A shipmaster’s knowledge of the law relating to loadline marks and 
entries and reports to be made respecting them. 

(c) Entering and clearing a Home Trade Ship. 

(d) The meaning of the terms “passenger ship” and “unberthed passenger 
ship”. 

(e) Preparations for drydocking and undocking. Use of shores, bilge blocks 
and bilge shores. 

4. The practical use of RADAR DECCA and CONSOL as aids to navigation. 

132. Signals. 

1. To send and receive signals in: — 

(a) British Semaphore up to eight words per minute. 

(b) Morse Code by flash lamp up to six words per minute. 

(c) International Code of Signals. 

2. The practical use of shipborne W/T. D/F. 

Yacht Master 


133. Written Examination. 

The written examination for a Yacht Master’s certificate will be the same 
as that prescribed for a foreign-going Master’s certificate, except that in addition 
the candidate will be required to take the papers in navigation and chart work 
laid down for First Mate and that the papers on Shipmaster’s Business and Engi- 
neering and Radio Aids will be omitted from the examination. 

134. Oral Examination. 

1. (a) A thorough knowledge of the Rules of the Road both as regards steam- 
ships and sailing vessels, (see Appendix E) . 

(b) Signals of distress, and the signals to be made by ships wanting a pilot; the 
liabilities and penalties incurred by the misuse of these signals. 

(c) Uniform system of buoyage and the wreck marking system. 

2. (a) Making and taking in sail and the management of a yacht under canvas 
In moderate or stormy weather, 

(b) How to keep a vessel out of the trough of the sea in the event of accident; 
how to rig rafts and jury rudders. The steps to take when a vessel is disabled 
or unmanageable and drifting towards a lec shore. 

(c) To moor and unmoor ship; keep a clear anchor; to carry out an anchor. 

(d) Preservation of crew in the event of wreck. 

(e) Any other practical questions relating to the management of a yacht 
either steam or sailing, which the Examiner may consider necessary. 

3. (a) The use and adjustments of a sextant. 

(b) Tiie use and management of rocket apparatus. 

(c) The marking and use of the lead line and log line. 

4. (a) The measures to adopt for preventing and checking an outbreak of 
scurvy on board. 

(b) A knowledge of what the Master of a Yacht is required to do under the 
Merchant Shipping Acts. 

135. Signals. 

To send and receive signals in: — 

(a) British Semaphore up to eight words per minute. 

(b) Morse Code by flash lamp up to six words per minute. 

(c) International Code of Signals. 



1546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1964 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Sailing Ship Endorsements 

136. Second Mate, Sailing Ship Endorsement. — The candidate must understand 
and give satisfactory answers on the following subjects: — 

(a) The standing and running rigging of ships. 

(b) Bending, unbending, setting, reefing, taking in and furling sail. 

(c) Sending masts and yards up and down, etc. 

(d) Management of a ship when under canvas. 

(e) A thorough knowledge of the Rule of the Road as regards sailing 

vessels (see Appendix E) . 

(f) Any questions appertaining to the duties of a Second Mate of a sailing 

ship that the Examiner may think necessary to ask. 

137. First Mate, Sailing Ship Endorsement. — In addition to the qualifications 
required for a Second Mate’s sailing ship endorsement, the candidate will be 
required to show a knowledge of the following subjects: — 

(a) Shifting large spars, rigging sheers, taking lower masts in and out. 

(b) How to moor and unmoor ship; to keep a clear anchor; and to carry 

out an anchor. 

(c) How to manage a ship in stormy weather. 

(d) How to secure the masts in the event of accident to the bowsprit. 

(e) How to rig purchases for getting heavy weights, anchors, machinery, 

etc., in or out. 

(f) How to get a cast of the deep sea lead in heavy weather. 

(g) Accidents, and how to deal with them. 

(h) Any other questions appertaining to the duties of a First Mate of a 

sailing ship which the Examiner may think necessary to ask. 

138. Master, Sailing Ship. Endorsement, — In addition to the qualifications re- 
quired for the sailing ship endorsement for Second and First Mate, the candidate 
will be required to show a knowledge of the following subjects: — 

(a) Management of ship in heavy weather. 

(b) Rescuing the crew of a disabled vessel. 

(c) Steps to be taken when a ship is on her heam ends, or in any danger 

or difficulty, or disabled or ynmanagable and on a lee shore. 

(d) Heaving a keel out. 

(e) Any other question appertaining to the management of a sailing ship 

which the Examiner may think it necessary to ask. 

139. Mate Home. Trade Sailing Ship Endorsement. — The candidate must under- 
stand and give satisfactory answers on the following subjects: — 

(aV The standing and running rigging of ships. 

(b) Bending, unbending, setting, roofing, taking in, and furling sail. 

(c) Sending masts and yards up and down, etc. 

(d) Management of a ship when under canvas. 

(e) A thorough knowledge of the Rule of the Road as regards sailing 

vessels (see Appendix E), 

(f) How to moor and unmoor a ship; to keep a clear anchor; and to carry 

out an anchor. 

(g) How to manage a ship in stormy weather. 

(h) How to secure the masts in the event of accident to the bowsprit. 

(i) Accidents, and how to deal with them. 

(j) Any other questions appertaining to the duties of a Mate of a home 

trade sailing ship which the Examiner may think necessary. 

140. Master, Home^Trade Sailing Ship Endorsement. — In addition to the quali- 
fications required for the sailing ship endoi^ement for Mate, home trade the 
candidate will be required to show a knowledge of the following subjects:— 

(a) Management of ship in heavy weather. 

(b) Rescuing the crew of a disabled ship, 



Part II— Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19 , 1954 1 547 

(c) Steps _to be taken when a ship is on her beam ends, or in any danger 

or difficulty, or disabled or unmanageable and on a lee shore. 

(d) Heaving a keel out. 

(e) Any other question appertaining to the management of a home trade 

sailing ship which the Examiner may think it necessary to ask. 

APPENDIX A 

(a) Examination days and places' Masters and Mates' Certificates in India 
Port Examination Place Day 


Bombay 


Calcutta 


Second Mate, First 
Mate, Master (Fo- 
reign-going). 

Mate and Master 
(borne trade). 

Yacht Master. 


Second Mate, First 
Mate, Master (Fo- 
reign-going). 

Mate and Master 
(home trade). 
Yacht Master. 


Mercantile Marine 
Office, Commerce 
House, Currimbhoy 
Road, Ballard Es- 
tate, Bombay. 


Mercantile Marine 
Office, Marine 

House, Hastings, 

Calcutta, 


Examinations gene- 
rally commence 
on the first Mon- 
day in each month. 
The dates can 
be ascertained on 
application at. the 
Mercantile Marine 
Office. 

Do. 


Note. — The dates for the voluntary examination in Compass Deviation, and 
the voluntary examination in Signalling can be ascertained on application to the 
Principal Officer, Bombay or Calcutta. 

(b) Examinations days and places: Extra Master’s Mates’ and Mates Certificates 

in the United Kingdom 


Day in each month on which examination begins 


Port 


2nd Mate ist Mate and Mate Home Master 

foreign-going Master trade trade 

foreign-going 


Belfast 

1 st Monday 


2nd Monday 

ist Monday 

2nd Monday. 

Cardiff 

1st Monday 


2nd Monday 

ist Monday 

2nd Monday 

Glassgow ■ 

1st and 

3rd 

2nd 

and 4th 

1st Monday 

2nd Monday 


Monday. 


Monday. 



Hull 

ist Monday 


2nd Monday 

1st Monday 

- 2nd Monday 

Leith 

1 st Monday 


2nd Monday . 

ist Monday 

2nd Monday, 

Liverpool ■ 

lBt 

and 

3rd 

2nd 

and 4th 

ist Monday 

2nd Monday 

Monday. 


Monday. 



London ■ 

ist and 

3rd 

2nd 

and 4th 

ist Monday 

. 2nd Monday. 


Monday. 


Monday. 

Newcastle 

. 1st 

and 

3rd 

2nd 

and 4th 

ist Monday 

. 2nd Monday. 


Monday. 

Monday. 

Southampton 

3rd Monday 


4th Monday 

3rd Monday 

4th Monday. 


The examinations for Extra Masters’ certificates are held at the ports in the 
above list (other than Belfast) and begin as follows:— Part I on the first Monday 
and Part II on the second Monday in March, July and November. 

N.B.— The examination days and the ports at which examinations are held 
are liable to be changed, and candidates are advised to ascertain the actual date 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


I54S 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


of examination from the Superintendent of the Mercantile Marine Office, or the 
local Examiner of Masters and Mates. Examinations will be suspended during 
August in each year and will be resumed on the first Monday in September. 


APPENDIX B 

(a) Ports where examination in the sight tests are held in India . — A list 
showing the ports at which sight tests are held in India and the days of examina- 
tion is appended. A candidate who wishes to have his sight tested should apply, 
in the first place, to any one of the Principal Officers, Mercantile Marine Depart- 
ment, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras or the Deputy Port Conservator, Cochin, on 
any working day. 

(b) Ports where examinations in the sight tests are held in the United 
Kingdom . — A list showing the ports at which sight tests are held and the days 
of examination is appended. A candidate who wishes to have his sight tested 
should apply, in the first place, to the Superintendent of the Mercantile Marine 
Office at one of these ports. The normal hours for the sight tests are 9-30 a.m. 
to 12-30 p.M,, and wherever possible candidates should attend between those 
hours. A candidate who lives at a distance from the port and cannot attend 
before 12-30 p.m. should apply in writing to the Superintendent for a special 
appointment. 

Aberdeen — Second Friday in every month. Other days by appointment. 

Belfast — Every Monday. 

Bristol — First and Third Mondays in every month. 

Cardiff — Every Monday. 

Dundee — Fourth Monday in every month. 

Falmouth — By appointment. 

Fleetwood' — By appointment. 

Glassgow — Every Wednesday and Saturday. Other days by appointment only. 

Greenock- — Every Monday. 

Grimsby — Every Saturday. 

Hull — Every Friday and Saturday. 

Leith— Any day by appointment. 

Liverpool (Royal Liver Building) — Every Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 

London (Dock Street, E. 1.) — Every Friday and Saturday. 

London (133, E. India Dock Road, E. 14) — Every Monday and Tuesday, 

London (Victoria Docks, E. 16) — Every Wednesday and Thursday. 

London (Tilbury, Essex) — Every Thursday and Friday, 

Middlesborough — Every Tuesday. 

Milford Haven— By appointment. 

Newcastle — Every Friday and Saturday. 

Plymouth — Every Monday. 

Ramsgate — By appointment. 

Southampton — Every Wednesday and Friday. 

South Shields — Every Wednesday at 9-30 a.m. 

Sunderland — Every Monday. 

Swansea— Every Monday and Tuesday. 

Yarmouth — By appointment. 


APPENDIX C 
Sight tests 

Details as to the conduct of the tests 

The purpose of these tests is to ensure that the candidate’s eyesight is suffi- 
ciently good to enable him to pick up and identify correctly the lights of distant 
ships at sea. Experience has shown that for this purpose he must be able to 
reach certain minimum standards both of form and colour vision 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1549 


The testa employed are two, a letter test and a lantern test, details of which 
are given below. The letter test is a test of form vision only, and the lantern 
test is a test of form and colour vision combined. 

The tests will be conducted under the strict personal supervision of the 
Examiner, who will keep a record of all mistakes made by the candidate both 
in the Letter test and in the Lantern test. 

A candidate who holds a Certificate of Competency as Master, Mate, Skipper 
or Second Hand will not again be required to be exanrned in the Lantern Test. 

Spectacles not allowed. — During the examination in the sight test candidates 
will not be allowed to use spectacles, contact lenses, or glasses of any kind, or 
any other artificial aid to vision. They will however. K ave the option of using 
either eye separately or both eyes together. 

I. — Letter test 

1. The first test which the candidate is required to undergo is the letter test 
conducted on Snellen’s principle by metim of sheets of letters. Each sheet con- 
tains 7 lines, the 5th, 6th and 7th lines corresponding to standards 5/10, 5/7:5 and 
5/5 respectively. 

2. Standard of vision required. — With the exceptions indicated below (see para. 
5) every candidate will be required to read correctly five of the six letters in the 
sixth line and four of the seven letters ,'n the seventh line, at a distance of 16- 
feet from the eye. 

3. Method of testing. — Artificial illumination will be used in preference to 
daylight owing to the impossibility of securing uniformity where the latter is 
used. Where suitable dark rooms arc available ''he test si. cts will be hung on 
a wall at a height of five or six feel from the floor. with two electric light bulbs 
each of 40 watts placed horizontally and sr’tably screened so that the light falls 
directly on two lines of letters on the sheet. 

The test room will be moderately illuminated and care taken that there are 
no glaring lights or bright objects in the candidate’s field of vision. Extreme 
contrast between the illuminated test card am 1 the background will be avoided. 

If a suitable dark room is not available the test sheets will be hung on a wall 
at the required height in a good light, but not in direct sunlight. 

When the candidate has taken up the correct position one of the sheets will 
be exposed, and he will be asked to read the letters on the sheet from left to- 
right, beginning at the top and going downwards. 

If at the conclusion of the test the candidate is found to reach the required 
standard, he will be considered to have passed and will then proceed to the 
lantern test unless he holds a Certificate of Competency, 

4. Failure. — (a) If the candidate fails to reach the standard required on the 
first sheet he will be tested with at least four sheets and the following alternatives 
explained to him: — 

(i) He may break off the examination and present himself for re-examina- 

tion in not less than three months in which case a certificate of failure 
will be issued to him: or 

(ii) He may proceed to the lantern test. In this case a record of all mis- 

takes made in the letter test and all mistakes, if any, made in the 
lantern test will be forwarded to the Chief Examiner of Masters and 
Mates, who will decide whether the candidate has passed or failed 
in form vision. 

(b) Failure to pass the letter test is due to some defect in form vision, which 
is sometimes curable. Whenever, therefore, a candidate fails to pass this test be 
will be advised to consult an opthalmic surgeon with a view to ascertaining the- 
nature of the defect in his form vision, and whether it is curable. 

5. Lower standard required in certain cases. -.Candidates who are in possession, 
of certificates of competency obtained before 1st January, 1914, may be regarded 
as passing the letter test if they can read correctly with either eve or both eyes; 
together 3 of the 5 letters on the fifth line of a test" sheet. 

6. Care will be taken by varying the order of the test, sheets and by every 
other means to guard against the possibilitv of any deception on the part of the- 
candidate. 

II. — Lantern test 

7. Apparatus. — A special lantern and a mirror is provided for this tost. The- 
test is conducted in a room so darkened as to exclude all daylight. 



J550 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


The lantern will be placed directly in front of the mirror, so that the front 
part of the lantern is exactly ten feet from the mirror, and in such a position 
that the lights reflected in the mirror show clearly when viewed by the candidate 
■on the left of the lantern. 

8. Darkness adaptation. — If a candidate makes mistakes at the beginning of the 
lantern test he will be kept in a completely or partially darkened room tor at 
least a quarter of an hour and will then begin the test again. 

9. Method of testing, — The lantern supplied for the examination is so construct- 
ed as to allow one large or two small lights to be visible, and is fitted with 12 
glasses of three colours— red, white and green. At the beginning of the examina- 
tion the candidate will be shown a scries of lights through the large aperture, and 
he will be required to name the colours as they appear. Care will be taken in 
.showing the white light to emphasise the fact that this light is not a pure wniie. 
If a candidate makes a mistake in calling this light “red”, a proper red light will 
be shown immediately after and his attention directed to the difference between 
the two. 

After a series of lights through the large aperture has been shown, two com- 
jplete circuits and one broken circuit with the two small apertures will be made, 
the candidate naming the colours of each set of two lights from left to right. 

10. Passing or failure.— (a) If a candidate does not make any mistake in the 
lantern test after passing the letter test he will be deemed to have passed the 
whole examination and the examiner will issue a certificate to that effect. 

(b) If, with either the large aperture or the two smaller apertures of the 
lantern, a candidate mistakes red for green or green for red, he will be considered 
to have failed in the lantern test. 

(c) If a candidate makes any other mistake with the lantern, i.e., if he calls 
while “red” or red “white" or confuses green and white, his case will be sub- 
mitted to the Chief Examiner of Masters and Mates, and he will be told that 
the decision as to whether he is passed or failed, or must undergo a further exa- 
mination, will be communicated to him in due course. Pending the receipt of 
the Chief Examiner's instructions, a candidate for a certificate of competency will 
-only be allowed to proceed with such examination on the express understanding 
that the latter examination will be cancelled in the event of failure at the sight 
tests. 

(d) Candidates will be notified on an appropriate form of their success or failure 
■or else that their case has been referred for special consideration. 

(e) A candidate who fails to pass the local lantern test may not be re-examin- 
■ed locally, unless the Chief Examiner decides that he may be re-examined after 
three months. The certificate issued to the candidate will state whether or not 
he may be re-examined locally. 

Ill —S pecial examinations and appeals 

11. Special examination — Referred eases. — In the case of a candidate who is 
referred for further examination the Chief Examiner will make arrangements for 
a special examination for which no additional fee will be charged. 

12. Special Examination-Appeal cases. — A candidate who is adjudged to have 
failed in the local lantern test may appeal for an examination by a special body 
■of examiners for a decision. He will be required to pay a special fee of Rs. 32 
which will be returned to him if he is declared to have passed the special 
-examination. 

13. Examining Board. — The special and appeal examinations will be conducted 
by the Chief Examiner of Masters and Mates or his Deputy together with a spe- 
cialist adviser on eyesight. 

14. Punctual attendance at special and appeal examinations. — Candidates who 
are referred for a special examination or appeal from the result of the local tests 
are notified by the Chief Examiner of the time at which they should attend for 
special examination and are expected to inform the Chief Examiner whether or 
not they will be able to attend at that time, Any candidate who, after informing 
the Chief Examiner that he will attend, fails to appear at the time appointed, will 
be liable to have his examination postponed indefinitely and also, if an appeal 
candidate, will forfeit the appeal fee of Rs. 32 and will be required to deposit a 
further fee of the same amount before further arrangements can be made for his 
special examination. 

15. Final Appeals— Where, during the course of a special examination, a candi- 
date who has appealed or has been referred, is found to have a permanent defect 
in his eyesight such as to render him unfit for a sea career, he will be finally 



Part II— Sic, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1551 


rejected and will not be allowed to be examined again in the sight tests on any 
future occasion. This, however, is subject to this proviso that if the candidate 
is still dissatisfied, it will be open to him, if he so desires, to present himself for 
a second special examination on payment of a fee of rupees seventy-five, provided 
that he brmgs with him a friend to witness the examination who may be an opthal- 
mic surgeon. It will be conducted by the Chief Examiner of Masters and 
Mates or his Deputy together with a specialist adviser on eyesight. The special 
fee of rupees seventy-dive will not be returnable, unless in special circumstances, 
the Ministry of Transport see fit to refund it. In no case will this fee be refunded 
to candidates under 14 years of age. 

16. Candidates not finally rejected at special examination . — In certain cases a 
candidate may not be finally rejected at a first special examination. Such candi- 
dates will have the option of taking a second special examination as indicated 
in paragraph 15 or of being specially re-examined after an interval of three 
months on payment of a fee of rupees thirty-two. If they are successful the appeal 
fee of rupees thirty-two will be refunded. 


APPENDIX D 
Examination in Signalling 

The examination in Signalling will in all cases begin with an examination in 
the International Code, including Morse Flashing and Semaphore. 

Morse Flashing and Semaphore: Speeds and Tests for Voluntary Examination : — 
Candidates for the voluntary examination in signalling will be required to attain a 
minimum speed of 12 words a minute in Semaphore, and 10 words gr minute in 
Morse Flashing; the average length of a word is taken as 5 letters. 

The Morse Flashing test will consist of a Test message, followed by a Spelling 
message of 25 words, and the Semaphore test will consist of a Spelling message 
of 60 words. 

In the examination in Morse Flashing, the candidate should bo first required 
to make a Test message, followed by a Spelling message of 25 words. The Exa- 
miner should then make a Test message, followed by a Spelling message of 25 
words to be read by the candidate. 

The same procedure will be observed in the Semaphore test, except that, as a 
Test message is not given, the candidate will be required to make a Spelling mes- 
sage of 50 words, and then to read a message of 50 words mado by the Examiner. 

Speeds and Tests for Other Candidates .- — Other candidates will be required to 
attain a speed of 8 words a minute in Semaphore, and 6 words a minute in Morse 
Flashing: the average length of a w r ord is taken as 5 letters. 

The Morse Flashing test will consist of a Test Card and a Spelling message 
of 10 words, and the Semaphore test of a Spelling message of 25 words. 

Method of Signalling . — The Semaphore message will be made by hand flags. 

The spelling message is left to the discretion of the examiner, and may be a 
passage from any book or newspaper in English. When the passage contain# 
figures and the candidate does not choose to spell them out, the exammer should 
see that the proper signs are made before and after the figures. 

The message as read by the candidate should be taken down by another candi- 
date where possible, otherwise by a clerk, or other persons according as the exa- 
miner may deem expedient. 

Candidates should be thoroughly tested in the various signs and the procedure 
of calling up, sending and answering a signal, and this course should always be 
strictly adhered to. 

Marks . — In the Morse Flashing examination, marks will he allotted for the 
Test Message in the proportion of 2/3 of a mark for each correct letter or numeral, 
and for the Spelling message 5 marks for each correct word or group of figures. In 
the Semaphore examination, 4 marks will be allotted for each correct word. 

Every candidate must, for a pass, gain an aggregate of at least 90 per cent., 
of the maximum marks allotted both in making and reading in each method i.e., 
Morse Flashing and Semaphore, 

Note. — The International Code of Signals, Volume I Visual and Sound Signall- 
ing, and Volume II Radio Signalling, may be obtained from the principal book- 
sellers at the various ports, or directly from H.M. Stationery Office, York House, 
Kingsway, London W.C. 2. 



1552 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


The attention of candidates is drawn to the fact that facilities are available at 
the Nautical & Engineering College, Bombay for instruction in signalling. 

In the United Kingdom, signal schools have been established at London, 
Liverpool, South Shields, Glassgow,, Hull, Southampton and Cardiff where can- 
didates for Certificates of Competency can obtain instruction in Signalling free 
of charge. 


APPENDIX E 

Regulations for preventing collisions at sea (to come into force 1st January, 

1954) 

Part A. — Preliminary and Definitions 

Rule 1 

(a) These Rules shall be followed by all vessels and seaplanes upon the high 
seas and in all waters connected therewith navigable by seagoing vessels, except 
as provided in 'Rule 30. Where, as a result of their special construction, it is not 
possible for seaplanes to comply fully with the provisions of Rules specifying 
the carrying of lights and shapes, these provisions shall be followed as closely 
as circumstances permit. 

(b) The Rules concerning lights shall be complied with in all weathers from 
sunset to sunrise, and during such times no other lights shall be exhibited, except 
such lights as cannot be mistaken for the prescribed lights or impair their visi- 
bility or distinctive character, or interfere with the keeping of a proper look- 
out. 

(c) In the following Rules, except where the context otherwise requires: — 

(i) the word “vessel” includes every description of water craft, other than 

a seaplane on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of 
transportation on water; 

(ii) the word “seaplane” includes a flying boat and any other aircraft 

designed to manoeuvre on the water; 

(iii) the term “power-driven vessel” means any vessel propelled by 
machinery; 

(iv) every power-driven vessel which is under sail and not under power 

is to be considered a sailing vessel, and every vessel under power, 
whether under sail or not, is to be considered a power-driven vessel; 

(v) a vessel or seaplane on the water is “under way” when she is not at 

anchor, or made fast to the shore, or aground; 

(vi) the term “height above the hull’ means height above the upper-most 

continuous deck; 

(vii) The length and breadth of a vessel shall be deemed to be the length 
and breadth appearing in her certificate of registry; 

(viii) the length and span of a seaplane shall be its maximum length and 
span as shown in its certificate of airworthiness, or as determined by 
measurement in the absence of such certificate; 

(ix) the word “visible” when applied to lights, means visible on a dark 

night with a clear atmosphere; 

(x) the term “short blast” means a blast of about one second’s duration; 

(xi) the term “prolonged blast” means a blast of from four to six seconds’ 

duration; 

(xii) the word “whistle” means whistle or siren: 

(xiii) the word “tons” means gross tons. 

Part B. — Lights and shapes 

Rule 2 

(a) A power-driven vessel when under way shall carry: — 

(i) On or in front of the foremast, or if a vessel without a foremast then 
in the forepart of the vessel, a bright white light so constructed as to 
show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 20 points of 
the compass (225 degrees), so fixed as to show the light/10 points 
(112J degrees) oh each side of the vessel, that is, from right ahead to 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


H53 


2 points (22J degrees) abaft the beam on either side, and of such a 
character as to be visible at a distance of at least 5 miles. 

(ii) Either forward of or abaft the white light mentioned in sub-section (i) 
a second white light similar in construction and character to that 
light. Vessels of less than 150 feet in length, and vessels engaged in 
towing, shall not be required to carry this second white light but may 
do so. 


■(iii) These two white lights shall be so placed in a line with and over the 
keel that one shall be at least 15 feet higher than the other and in 
such a position that the lower light shall be forward of the upper one. 
The horizontal distance between the two white lights shall be at least 
three times the vertical distance. The lower of these two - white 
lights or, if only one is carried, then that light, shall be placed at a 
height above the hull of not less than 20 feet, and, if the breadth of 
the vessel exceeds 20 feet, then at a height above the hull not less 
than such breadth, so however that the light need not be placed at 
a greater height above the hull than 40 feet. In all circumstances the 
light or lights, as the case may be, shall be so placed as to be clear 
of and above all other lights and obstructing superstructures. 

(iv) On the starboard side a green light so constructed as to show an un- 

broken light over an arc of the horizon of 10 noints of the compass 
(112J degrees), so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 2 
points (22£ degrees) abaft the beam on the starboard side, and of such 
a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. 

(v) On the port side a red light so constructed as to show an unbroken 
• light over an arc of the horizon of 10 points of the compass (112J 

degrees), so fixed as to show the light from right a head to 2 points. 
(22J degrees) abaft the beam on the port side, and of such a character 
as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. 


fvi) The said green and red sidelights shall be fitted with inboard screens 
projecting at least 3 feet forward from the light, so as to prevent 
these lights from being seen across the bows. 

(b) A seaplane under way on the water shall carry: — 

(i) In the forepart amidships where it can best be seen a bright white light, 
so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon 
of 220 degrees of the compass, so fixed as to show the light 110 
aegrees on each side of the seaplane, namely, from right ahead to 
-0 degrees abaft the beam on either side, and of such a character as 
to be visible at a distance of at least 3 miles. 


<ii) 


<iii) 


On the right or starboard wing tip a green light, so constructed' as to 
snow an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 110 degrees of 
the compass, so fixed, as to show the light from right ahead to 20 
aegrees abaft the beam on the starboard side, and of such a character 
as to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. 


On the left or port wing tip a red light, so constructed as to show an 
unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 110 degrees of the com- 
Pass. so fixed as to show the light from right ahead to 20 degrees 
anatt the beam on the port side, and of such a character as to be 
visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. 


Rule 3 


(a) A power-driven vessel when towing or pushing another vessel or seaplane 
•shall, in addition to her sidelights, carry two bright white lights in a vertical line 
one over the other, not less than 6 feet apart, and when towing more than one 
vessel shall carry an additional bright white light 6 feet above or below such 
lights, if the length of the tow, measuring from the stern of the towing vessel 
to the stern of the last vessel or seaplane towed, exceeds 600 feet. Each of these 
lights shall be of the same construction and character and one of them shall be 
carried in the same position as the white light mentioned in Rule 2(a) (i) except 
the additional light, which shall be carried at a height of not less than’ 14 feet 
above the hull. In a vessel with a single mast, such lights may be carried on 
“the irra£t, 


(b) The towing vessel shall also show either the stern light specified in Rule 
10 or m lieu of that light a small white light abaft the funnel or aftermast for 
*he tow to steer by, but such light shall not be visible forward of the beam The 
carriage of the white Sight specified in Rule 2(a) (ii), is optional 



1554 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 5 


(c) A seaplane on the water, when towing one or more seaplanes or vessels,, 
shall carry the lights prescribed in Rule 2(b) (,i); (ii); and (iii); and, in addition, 
she shall carry a second white light of the same construction and character as the 
white light mentioned in Rule 2(b) (1), and in a vertical line at least 6 feet above- 
or below such light. 

Rule 4 

(a) A vessel which is not under command shall carry, whore they can best 
be seen, and, if a power-driven vessel, in lieu of the lights required by Rule- 
2(a) (1) and (ii) two red lights in a vertical line one over the other not less than 
6 feet apart, and of such a character as to be visible all round the horizon at a 
distance of at least 2 miles. By day, she shall carry in a vertical line one over 
the other not less than 6 feet apart, where they can best be seen, two black 
balls or shapes each not less than 2 feet in diameter, 

(b) A seaplane on the water which is not under command may carry, where- 
they can best be seen, two red lights in a vertical line, one over the other, not 
less than 3 feet apart, and of such a character as to be visible all round the 
horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles, and may by day carry in a vertical line 
one over the other not less than 3 feet apart, where they can best be seen, two- 
black balls or shapes, each not loss than 2 feet in diameter. 

(c) A vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or naviga- 
tion mark, or a vessel engaged in surveying or underwater operations when front 
the nature of her work she is unable to get out of the way of approaching vessels,, 
shall carry, in lieu of the lights specified in Rule 2(a) (i) and (ii), three lights 
in a vertical line one over the other not less than 6 feet apart. The highest and 
lowest of these lights shall be red, and the middle light shall be white, ahd they 
shall be of such a character as to be visible all round the horizon at a distance 
of at least 2 miles. By day, she shall carry in a vertical line one over the other 
not less than 6 feet apart, where they can best be seen, three shapes each not 
less than 2 feet in diameter, of which the highest and lowest shall be globular 
m shape and red in colour, and the middle one diamond in shape and white. 

(d) The vessels and seaplanes referred to in this Rule, when not making way 
through the water, shall not carry the coloured sidelights, but when making way 
they shall carry them. 

(e) The lights and shapes required to be shown by this Rule are to be takeni 
by other vessels and seaplanes as signals that the vessel or seaplane showing, 
them is not under command and cannot therefore get out of the way. 

W These signals are not signals of vessels in distress and requiring assist- 
ance. Such signals are contained in Rule 31. 

Rule 5 

(a) A sailing vessel under way and any vessel or seaplane being towed shall 
carry the same lights as are prescribed by Rule 2 for a power-driven vessel or a 
seaplane under way, respectively, with the exception, of the white lights specified 
therein, which they shall never carry. They shall also carry stern lights a* 
■perilled in Rule 10, provided that vessels towed, except the last vessel of tow, 
may carry, in lieu of such stern light, a small white light as specified in Rulet 
3(b). 

(b) A vessel being pushed ahead shall carry, at the forward end. on the star- 
board side a green light and on the port side a red light, which shall have the 
tame characteristics as the lights described in Rule 2(a) (iv) and (v) and shall 
be screened as provided in Rule 2(a) (vi), provided that any number of vessels- 
pushed ahead in a group shall be lighted as one vessel. 

Rule 6 

(a) In small vessels, when It is not possible on account of bad weather or 
other sufficient cause to fix the green and red sidelights, these lights shall be 
"kept at hand lighted and ready for immediate use, and shall, on the approach) 
of or to other vessels, be exhibited on their respective sides in sufficient time 
to prevent collision, in such manner as to make them most visible, and so that 
the green light shall not be seen on the port side nor the red light on the star- 
board side, nor, if practicable, more than 2 points (22i degrees) abaft the bean* 
on their respective sides. 

(b) To make the use of these portable lights more certain and easy, the lan- 
terns containing them shall each be painted outside with the colour oi the lights 
they respectively contain, and shall be provided with proper screens. 



tPrtRT II— T3 ec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1555 


Rule 7 

Power- driven vessels of less than 40 tons, vessels under oars or sails of less 
than 20 tons, and rowing boats, when under way shall not be required to carry 
the lights mentioned in Rule 2, but if they do not carry them they shall be pro- 
vided with the following lights: — 

(a) Power-driven vessels of less than 40 tons, except as provided in section 
<b), shall carry: — 

(1) In the forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen, and at a height 
above the gunwale of not less than 9 feet, a bright white light con- 
structed and fixed as prescribed in Rule 2(a) (i) and of such a cha- 
racter as to be visible at a distance of at least 3 miles. 

(ii) 'Green and red sidelights constructed and fixed as prescribed in Rule 
2(a) (iv) and (v), and of such a character as to be visible at a dis- 
tance of at least 1 mile, or a combined lantern showing a green 
light and a red light from right ahead to 2 point (22i degrees) abaft 

the beam on their respective sides, Such lantern shall be carried not 

less than 3 feet below the white light. 

(b) Small power-driven boats, such as are carried by seagoing vessels, may 
■carry the white light at a less height than 9 feet above the gunwale, but it shall 
be carried above the sidelights or the combined lantern mentioned in sub-section 

(a) (ii). 

(c) Vessels of less than 20 tons, under oars or sails, except as provided in 

■section (d), shall, if they do not carry the sidelights, carry where it can best 
be seen a lantern showing a green light on one side and a red light on the other, 
■Of such a character as to be visible at a distance of at least 1 mile, and so fixed 
that the green light shall not be seen on the port side, nor the red light on the 
starboard side. Where it is not possible to fix this light, it shall be kept ready 

for immediate use and shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision 

and so that the green light shall not be seen on the port side nor the red light 
•on the starboard side. 

(d) Small rowing boats, whether under oars or sail, shall only be required 
to have ready at hand an electric torch or a lighted lantern showing a white 
Tight, which shall be exhibited in sufficient time to prevent collision. 

(e) The vessels and boats referred to in this Rule shall not be required to 
carry the lights or shapes prescribed in Rules 4(a) and 11(e). 


Rule 8 


(a) (i) Sailing oilot-vessels. when engaged on their station on pilotage duty 
^nd not at anchor, shall not show the lights prescribed for other vessels but shall 
carry a white light at the masthead visible all round the horizon at a distance 
of at least 3 miles, and shall also exhibit a flare-up light or flare-up lights at short 
intervals, which shall never exceed 10 minutes. 


(ii) On the near approach of or to other vessels they shall have their side- 
lights lighted readv for use and shall flash or show them at short intervals, to 
indicate the direction in which they are heading, but the green light shall not 
tie shown on the port side, nor the red light on the starboard side. 


(iii) A sailing pilot-vessel of such a class as to be obliged to go along-side 
of a vessel to put a pilot on board may show the white light instead of carrying 
it at the masthead and may, instead of the sidelights above mentioned, have at 
hand ready for use a lantern with a green glass on the one side and a red glass 
on the other to be used as prescribed above. 


(b) A power-driven pilot-vessel when engaged on her station on pilotage 
duty and not at anchor shall, in addition to the lights and flares required for 
sailing pilot-vessels, carry at a distance of 8 feet below her white masthead light 
a red light visibie all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles, and also 
the sidelights required to be carried by vessels when under way. A bright in- 
termittent all round white light may be used in a place of a flare. 

(c) All pilot-vessels, when engaged on their stations on pilotage duty and at 
anchor, shall carry the lights and show the flares prescribed in sections (a) and 
(bl, except that the sidelights shall not be shown. They shall also carry the 
anchor light or lights prescribed in Rule 11, 


(d) All pilot-vessels, whether at anchor or not at anchor, shall, when not 
•engaged on their stations on pilotage duty, carry the same lights as other vessels 
•of their class ahd tonnage. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — SkC. 8 * 


1556 


Buie D 


(a) Fishing vessels when not fishing shall carry the lights or shapes prescrib- 
ed for similar vessels of their tonnage. When fishing they shall show only the 
lights or shapes prescribed by this Rule, which lights or shapes, except as other- 
wise provided, shall be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. 

(b) Vessels fishing with trolling (towing) lines, shall show only the lights, 
prescribed for a power-driven or sailing vessel under way as may be appropriate. 

(c) Vessels fishing with nets or lines, except- trolling (towing) lines, extend- 
ing from the vessel not more than 500 feet horizontally into the seaway shalL 
show, where it can best be seen, one all round white light and in addition, on. 
approaching or being approached by another vessel, shall show a second white 
light at least 6 feet below the first light and at a horizontal distance of at least 
10 feet away from it (6 feet in smad open boats) in the direction in which the 
outlying gear is attached. By day such vessels shall indicate their occupation 
by displaying a basket where it can best be seen; and if they have their gear 
out while at anchor, they shall, on the approach of other vessels, show the same 
signal in the direction from the anchor ball towards the net or gear. 

(d) Vessels fishing with nets or lines, except trolling (towing) lines, extend- 
ing from the vessel more than 500 feet horizontally Into the seaway shall show,, 
where they can best be seen, three white lights at least 3 feet apart in a vertical 
triangle visible all round the horizon When making way through the water, 
such vessels shall show the proper coloured sidelights but when not making way 
they shall not show them. By day they shall show a basket in the forepart of 
tire vessel as near the stem as possible not less than 10 feet above the rail; and, 
tn addition, where it can best be seen, one black conical shape, apex upwards. 
If they have their gear out while at anchor they shall, on the approach of other- 
vessels, show the basket in the direction from the anchor ball towards the net 
or gear. 

(e) Vessels when engaged in trawling, by which is meant the dragging of a 
dredge net or other apparatus along or near the bottom of the sea, and not at. 
anchor: — - 

(1) If power-driven vessels, shall carry in the same position as the white 
light mentioned in Rule 2(a) (i) a tri-coloured lantern, so construct- 
ed and fixed as to show a white light from right ahead to 2 points- 
(22A degrees) on each bow, and a green light and a red light over 
an arc of the horizon from 2 points (22£ degrees) on each bow to- 
2 points (22J degrees) abaft the beam on the starboard and port 
sides, respectively; and not less than 6 nor more than 12 feet be- 
low the tri-coloured lantern a white light in a lantern, so constructed 
as to show a clear, uniform, and unbroken light all round the horizon. 
They shall also show the stern light specified in Rule 10(a). 

(ii) If sailing vessels, shall carry a white light in a lantern so constructed. 

as to show a clear, uniform, and unbroken light all round the horizon,, 
and shall also, on the approach of or to other vessels show, where it 
can best be seen, a white flare-up light in sufficient time to prevent 
collision. 

(iii) By day, each of the foregoing vessels shall show, where it can best- 
be seen, a basket, 


(f) In addition to the lights which they are by this Rule required to show 
vessels fishing may, if necessary, in order to attract attention of approaching 
vessels, show a flare-up light. They may also use working- lights. 


(g) Every vessel fishing, when at anchor, shall show the lights or shape spe- 
cined m Rule 11(a), (b) or (c); and shall, on the approach of another vessel or 
vessels, show an additional white light at least 6 feet below the forward anchor 
light and at a horizontal distance of at least 10 feet away from it in the direction- 
of the outlying gear. 

(h) If a vessel when fishing becomes fast by her gear to a rock other obstruc- 
tion she shall in daytime haul down the basket required by sections (c) (d) or 

(e) and show the signal specified in Rule 11(c). By night she shall show the 

light or lights specified in Rule 1.1(a) or (b). In fog. mist, falling snow, heavy 
rainstorms or any other condition similarly restricting visibility, whether bv 
day or by night, she shall sound the signal prescribed by Rule 15(c) (v), which- 
used, on the near approach of another vessel, in good 
visibility. ° 


Note,— F or fog signals for fishing vessels, see Rule 15(c) (ix). 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1557 


Rule 10 

(a) A vessel when under way shall carry at her stern a white light, so con- 
structed that it shall show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of 12 
points of the compass (135 degrees), so fixed as to show the light 6 points (074 
degrees) from right aft on each side of the vessel, and of such a character as 
to be visible at a distance of at least 2 miles. Such light shall be carried as 
nearly as practicable on the same level as the sidelights. 

Note, — F or vessels engaged in towing or being towed, see Rules 3(b) and 5. 

(b) In a small vessel, if it is not possible on account of bad weather or other 
sufficient cause for this light to be fixed, an electric torch or a lighted lantern 
shall be kept at hand ready for use and shall, on the approach of an overtaking 
vessel, be shown in sufficient time to prevent collision. 

(c) A seaplane on the water when under way shall carry on her tail a white 
light, so constructed as to show an unbroken light over an arc of the horizon 
of 140 degrees of the compass, so fixed as to show the light 70 degrees from 
right aft on each side of the seaplane, and of such a character as to be visible 
at a distance of at least 2 miles. 


Rule 11 

(a) A vessel under 150 feet in length, when at anchor, shall carry in the 
forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen, a white light in a lantern so 
constructed as to show a clear, uniform, and unbroken light visible all round 
the horizon at a distance of at least 2 miles. 

(b) A vessel of 150 feet or upwards in length, when at anchor, shall carry 
In the forepart of the vessel, at a height of not less than 20 feet above the hull, 
one such light, and at or near the stern of the vessel and at such a height that 
It shall be not less than 15 feet lower than the forward light, another such light. 
Both these lights shall be visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 
3 miles. 

(c) Between sunrise and sunset every vessel when at anchor shall carry in 
the forepart of the vessel, where it can best be seen, one black ball not less than 
2 feet in diameter. 

(d) A vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a submarine cable or navi- 
gation mark, or a vessel engaged in surveying or underwater operations, when at 
anchor, shall carry the lights or shapes prescribed in Rule 4(c) in addition to 
those prescribed in the appropriate preceding sections of this Rule. 

(e) A vessel aground shall carry by night the light or lights prescribed in sec- 
tions (a) or (b) and the two red lights prescribed m Rule 4(a). By day she shall 
carry, where they can best be seen, three black balls, each not less than 2 feet 
in diameter, placed in a vertical line one over the other, not less than 6 feet 
apart. 

(f) A seaplane on the water under 150 feet in length, when at anchor, shall 
carry, where it can best be seen, a white light, visible all round the horizon 
at a distance of at least 2 miles. 

(g) A seaplane on the water 150 feet or upwards in length, when at anchor, 
shall carry, where they can best be seen, a white light forward and a white 
light aft, both lights visible all round the horizon at a distance of at least 3 miles; 
and, in addition, if the seaplane is more than 150 feet in span, a white light on 
each side to indicate the maximum span, and visible, so far as practicable all 
round the horizon at a distance of 1 mile. 

(h) A seaplane aground shall carry an anchor light or lights as prescribed 
in sections (f) and (g), and in addition may carry two red lights in a vertical 
line, at least 3 feet apart, so placed as to be visible all round the horizon. 

Rule 12 

Every vessel or seaplane on the water may, if necessary in order to attract 
attention, in addition to the lights which she is by these Rules required to carry, 
show a flare-up light or use a detonating or other efficient sound signal that 
cannot be mistaken for any signal authorised elsewhere under these Rules. 

Rule 13 

(a) Nothing in these Rules shall Interfere with the operation of any special 
rules made by the Government of any nation with respect to additional station 
and signal lights for ships of war, for vessels sailing under convoy, or for sea- 
planes on the water; or with the exhibition of recognition signals adopted by 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sic. 3 


1558 


shipowners, which have been authorised by their respective Governments and 
duly registered and published. 

(b) Whenever the Government concerned shall have determined that a naval 
or other military vessel or Waterborne seaplane of special construction or pur- 
pose cannot comply fully with the provisions of any of these Rules with respect 
to the number position' range or arc of visibility of lights or shapes, without 
interfering with the military function of the vessel or seaplane, such vessel or 
seaplane shall comply with such other provisions in regard to the number, posi- 
tion, range or arc of visibility of lights or shapes as her Government shall have 
determined to be the closest possible compliance with these Rules in respect of 
that vessel or seaplane. 

Rule 14 

A vessel proceeding under sail, when also being propelled by machinery, 
shall carry in the daytime forward, where it can best be seen, one black conical 
shape, point upwards, not less than 2 feet in diameter at its base. 

Rule 15 

(a) A power-driven vessel shall be provided with an efficient whistle, sounded 
by steam or by some substitute for steam, so placed that the sound may not be 
intercepted by any obstruction, and with an efficient fog-horn, to be sounded by 
mechanical means, and also with an efficient bell. A sailing vessel of 20 tons or 
upwards shall be provided with a similar fog-horn and bell. 

(b) All signals prescribed by this Rule for vessels under way shall be 
given: — 

(i) by power-driven vessels on the whistle; 

(ii) by sailing vessels on the fog-horn; 

(iii) by vessels towed on the whistle or fog-horn. 

(c) In fog, mist, falling snow, heavy rainstorms, or any other condition 
Bimilarly restricting visibility, whether by day or night, the signals prescribed 
in this Rule shall be used as follows: — - 

(i) A power-driven vessel making way through the water, shall sound at 

intervals of not more than 2 minutes a prolonged blast. 

(ii) A power-driven vessel under way, but stopped and making no way 

through the water, shall sound at intervals of not more than 2 minutes 
two prolonged blasts, with an interval of about 1 second between 
them. 

1 iil) A sailing vessel under way shall sound, at intervals of not more than 
1 minute, when on the starboard tack one blast, when on the port 
tack two blasts in succession, and when with the wind abaft the beam 
three blasts in succession. 

''Jv) A vessel when at anchor shall at intervals of not more than 1 minute ring 
the bell rapidly for about 5 seconds. In vessels of more than 350 feel 
in length the bell shall be sounded in the forepart of the vessel, and 
in addition there shall be sounded in the after part of the vessel, at 
intervals of not more than 1 minute for about 5 seconds, a gong or 
other instrument, the tone and sound of which cannot be confused 
with that of the bell. Every vessel at anchor may in addition, in 
accordance with Rule 12, sound three blasts in succession, namely, one 
short, one prolonged, and one short blast, to give warning of her 
position and of the possibility of collision to an approaching vessel. 

'V) A vessel when towing, a vessel engaged in laying or in picking up a 
submarine cable or navigation mark, and a vessel under way which 
is unable to get out of the way of an approaching vessel through being 
not under command or unable to manoeuvre as required by these 
Rules shall, instead of the signals prescribed in sub-sections (i), (ii) 
and (iii) sound, at intervals of not more than 1 minute, three blasts 
in succession, namely, one prolonged blast followed by two shor{ 
blasts. 

tvi) A vessel towed, or, if more than one vessel is towed, only the last 
vessel of the tow, if manned, shall, at intervals of not more than 
1 minute, sound four blasts in succession, namely, one prolonged blast 
followed by three short blasts. When practicable, this signal shall 
be made Immediately after the signal made by the towing vessel 



Fart II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1559 


(vii) A vessel aground shall give the signal prescribed in sub-section (iv) 
and shall, in addition, give three separate and distinct strokes on the 
bell immediately before and after each such signal. 

(viii) A vessel of less than 20 tons, a rowing boat, or a seaplane on the 
water, shall not be obliged to give the above-mentioned signals, but 
if she does not, she shall make some other efficient sound signal at 
intervals of not more than- 1 minute. 

(ix) A vessel when fishing, If of 20 tons or upwards, shall at intervals of 
not more than 1 minute, sound a blast, such blast to be followed by 
ringing the bell; or she may sound, In lieu of these signals, a blast 
consisting of a series of several alternate notes of higher and lower 
pitch. 

Rule 16 

Speed to be moderate in fog etc. 

(a) Every vessel, or seaplane when taxing on the water, shall, in fog, mist, 
falling snow, heavy rainstorms or any other condition similarly restricting visi- 
bility, go at a moderate speed, having careful regard to the existing circumstance* 
and conditions. 

(b) A power-driven vessel hearing, apparently forward of her beam, the fog- 
signal of a vessel the position of which is not ascertained, shall, so far as the 
circumstances of the case admit, stop her engines, and then navigate with caution 
until danger of collision is over. 

Part C — Steering and Sailing Rules 
Preliminary 

1. In obeying and construing these Rules, any action taken should be positive, 
in ample time, and with due regard to the observance of good seamanship. 

2. Risk of collision can, when circumstances permit, be ascertained by care- 
fully watching the compass bearing of an approaching vessel. If the bearing 
■does not appreciably change, such risk should be deemed to exist. 

3. Mariners should bear in mind that seaplanes in the act of landing or taking 
off, or operating under adverse weather conditions, may be unable to change 
their intended action at the last moment. 

Rule 17 

When two sailing vessels are approaching one another, so as to involve risk 
of collision, one of them shall keep out of the way of the other, as follows: — 

(a) A vessel which is running free shall keep out of the way of a vessel 

which is close-hauled. 

(b) A vessel which is close-hauled on the port tack shall keep out of the 

way of a vessel which is close-hauled on the starboard tack. 

(c) When both are running free, with the wind on different sides, the 

vessel which has the wind on the port side shall keep out of the way 
of the other. 

(d) When both are running free, with the wind on the same side, the 

vessel which is to windward shall keep out of the way of the vessel 
which is to leeward. 

(e) A vessel which has the wind aft shall keep out of the way of the other 

vessel. ' 


Rule 18 

(a) When two power-driven vessels are meeting end on, or nearly end on so 
as to Involve risk of collision, each shall alter her course to starboard so that 
each may pass on the port side of the other. This Rule only applies ’to cases 
where vessels are meeting end on, or nearly end on, in such a manner as to 
involve risk of collision, and does not apply to two vessels which must if both 
keep on their respective courses, pass clear of each other. The only ’cases to 
which it does apply are when each of two vessels is end on, or nearly end on, 
to the other; m other words, to cases in which, by day, each vessel sees the masts 
of the other m a line or nearly in a line, with her own; and by night, to cases 
in which each vessel is in such a position as to see both the sidelights of the 
other. It does not apply, by day , to cases in which a vessel sees another ahead 



1560 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sic. 31 


crossing her own course; or, by night, to cases where the red light of one vessel 
is opposed to the red light of the other or where the green light of one vessel 
is opposed to the green light of the other or where a red light without a gree» 
light or a green light without a red light is seen ahead, or where both greem 
and red lights are seen anywhere but ahead. 

* 

(b) For the purposes of this Rule and Rules 19 to 29 inclusive, except 
Rule 20(b), a seaplane on the water shall be deemed to be a vessel, and the 
expression “power-driven vessel” shall be construed accordingly. 

Rule 19 

When two power-driven vessels are crossing, so as to involve risk of collision,, 
the vessel which has the other on her own starboard side shall keep out of the 
way of the other. 


Rule 20 

(a) When a power-driven vessel and a sailing vessel are proceeding in such; 
direction as to involve risk of collision, except as provided in Rules 24 and 26 f 
the power-driven vessel shall keep out of the way of the sailing vessel. 

(b) A seaplane on the water shall, in general, keep well clear of all vessels- 
and avoid impeding their navigation. In circumstances, however, where risk of 
collision exists, she shall comply with these Rules. 

Rale 21 

Where by any of these Rules one of two vessels is to keep out of the way,, 
the other shall keep her course and speed. When, from any cause, the latter 
vessel finds herself so close that collision cannot be avoided by the action of the 
giving-way vessel alone, she also shall take such action as will best aid to avert, 
collision (see Rules 27 and 29). 


Rule 22 

Every vessel which is directed by these Rules to keep out of the way of 
another vessel shall, If the circumstances of the case admit, avoid crossing ahead 
of the other. 


Rule 23 

Every power-driven vessel which is directed by these Rules to keep out of 
the way of another vessel shall, on approaching her, if necessary, slacken her 
speed Or stop or reverse. 

Rule 24 

(a) Notwithstanding anything contained in these Rules, every vessel over- 
taking any other shall keep out of the way of the overtaken vessel. 

(b) Every vessel coming up with another vessel from any direction more 
than 2 points (224 degrees) abaft her beam, i.e. in such a position, with reference 
to the vessel which she is overtaking, that at night she would be unable to see 
either of that vessel’s sidelights, shall be deemed to be an overtaking vessel; 
and no subsequent alteration of the bearing between the two vessels shall make 
the overtaking vessel a crossing vessel within the meaning of these Rules, or 
relieve her of the duty of keeping clear of the overtaken vessel until she is 
finally past and clear. 

(c) If the overtaking vessel cannot determine with certainty whether she is; 
forward of or abaft this direction from the other vessel, she shall assume that 
she is an overtaking vessel and keep out of the way. 

Rule 25 

(a) In a narrow channel every power-driven vessel when proceeding along 
the course of the channel shall, when it is safe and practicable, keep to that side- 
of the fairway or mid-channel which lies on the starboard side of such vessel. 

(b) Whenever a power-driven vessel is nearing a bend in a channel where 
S power-driven vessel approaching from the other direction cannot be seen, such 
vessel, when she shall hare arrived within one-half mile of the bend, shall give- 
, a signal by one prolonged Mast of her whistle, which signal shall be answered 
by a similar blast given by any approaching power-driven vessel that may be 
within hearing around the bend. Regardless of whether an approaching vessel 
on the farther side of the bend is heard, such bend, shall be rounded with alert- 
_ is and caution. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


156IC 


Rule 26 

All vessels not engaged in fishing shall, when under way, keep out of the 
way of any vessels fishing with nets or lines or trawls. This Rule shall ncrt gtv® 
to any vessel engaged in fishing the right of obstructing a fairway used by vessel*' 
other than fishing vessels. 

Rule 27- 

In obeying and construing these Rules due regard shall be had to all danger*^ 
of navigation and collision, and to any special circumstances, including the limita- 
tions of the craft involved, which may render a departure from the above Rule* 
necessary in order to avoid immediate danger. 

Part D. — Miscellaneous 

Rules 28 

(a) When vessels are in sight of one another, a power-driven vessel under- 
way, in taking any course authorised or required by these Rules, shall indicate- 
that course by the following signals on her whistle, namely: — 

One short blast to mean “I am altering my course to starboard”. 

Two short blasts to mean “I am altering my course to port”. 

Three short blasts to mean “My engines are going astern”,. 

(b) Whenever a power-driven vessel which, under these Rules, is to ’ keep* 
her course and speed, is in sight of another vessel and is in doubt whether 
sufficient action is being taken 'by the other vessel to avert collision, she may 
indicate such doubt by giving at least five short and rapid blasts on the whistle. 
The giving of such a signal shall not relieve a vessel of her obligations under 
Rules 27 and 29 or any other Rule, or of her duty to indicate any action taken 
under these Rules by giving the appropriate sound signals laid down in this Rule. 

(c) Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of any special 
rules made by the Government of any nation with respect to the use of additional 
whistle signals between ships of war or vessel sailing under convoy. 

Rule 29 

Nothing in these Rules shall exonerate any vessel, or the owner, master oar 
crew thereof, from the consequences of any neglect to carry lights or signals, or. 
of any neglect to keep a proper look-out, or Of the neglect of any precaution which 
may be required by the ordinary practice of seamen, or by the special circum^ 
stances of the case. 


Rule 30 

Reservation of Rules for Harbours and Inland Navigation 

Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of a special rule duly 
made by local authority relative to the navigation of any harbour, river, lake, or 
inland water, including a reserved seaplane area. 

Rule 31 

Distress Signals 

When a vessel or seaplane on the water is in distress and requires assistance- 
from other vessels or from the shore, the following shall be the signals to bo- 
used or displayed by her, either together or separately, namely: — 

(a) A gun or other explosive signal fired at intervals of about a minute. 

(b) A continuous sounding with any fog-signal apparatus. 

(c) Rockets or shells, throwing red stars fired one at a time at short 

intervals, 

(d) A signal made by radiotelegraphy or by any other signalling method 

consisting of the group in the Morse Code. 

(e) A signal sent by radiotelephony consisting of the spoken word 

"Mayday”. 

(f) The International Code Signal of distress indicated by N.C. 

(g) A signal consisting of a square flag having above or below it a half 

or anything resembling a ball. 

(h) Flames on the vessel (as from a burning tar barrel, oil barrel, etc.). 

(i) A rocket parachute flare showing a red light. 



.1562 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1054 


[Fart II — Sec. 3 


The use of any of the above signals, except for the purpose of indicating that 
a vessel or a seaplane is in distress, and the use of any signals which may be 
• confused with any of the above signals, Is prohibited, 

Note. — A radio signal has been provided for use by vessels in distress for 
the purpose of actuating the auto-alarms of other vessels and thus securing 
.attention to distress calls or messages. The signal consists of a series of twelve 
dashes, sent in 1 minute, the duration of each dash being 4 seconds, and the 
- duration of the interval between two consecutive dashes 1 second. 

Buie 32. 

All orders to helmsmen shall be given in the following sense: right rudder 
or starboard to mean “put the vessel’s rudder to starboard* 5 : left rudder or nnrt 
'to mean "put the vessel’s rudder to port”. p 


APPENDIX F 
Pilot Signals 

The following signals, when used or displayed together or separately, shall 
foe deemed to be signals for a pilot: — 

In the daytime. 

1. The International Code Signal G signifying “I require a pilot”. 

2. The International Code Signal PT signifying "I require a pilot”. 

3. The Pilot Jack hoisted at the force. 

At night. 

1. The pyrotechnic light, commonly known as a blue light every fifteen 

minutes. 

2. A bright white light, flashed or shown at short or frequent intervals just 

above the bulwarks for about a minute at a time. 

3. The International Code Signal PT by flashing. 

If a master of a vessel uses or displays, or causes or permits any person under 
hia authority to use or display, any of the pilot signals for any other purpose 
than that of summoning a pilot, or uses or causes or permits any person under his 
authority to use any other signal for a pilot, he shall for each offence be liable 
to a fine not exceeding twenty pounds. [Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, Section 
■616(3).] 


APPENDIX G 

*Sea service required to qualify for examination for Certificates of Competency 

The following is a condensed statement of the sea service required to qualify 
in each of the various grades of Certificates of Competency. Where service as an 
officer is required it is shown in tabular form, The letter F is used as denoting 
foreign-going and H as denoting home trade: thus, 1JF in the first column of 
the table showing the officer’s service for a First Mate’s Certificate means 1J years 
service in foreign-going ships; Mate H in the last column means Mate of a 
■home trade ship; and so on. 

A candidate for sailing Ship endorsement must show that at least 12 months 
-of his service has been spent in square rigged sailing ships. 

Certificate for Foreign-going Ships 
Second ■ Mate ( Foreign-Going ) 

Minimum age, 20 years. 

Minimum sea service 4F. or 6H. 

No officer’s service required. 

First Mate (Foreign-going) 

Minimum age, 21} years. 

Minimum sea service, 5JF. or 8}H. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954* 1563 - 


Officer’s Service 

as follows: — 



Years 

Lowest Capacity 

Lowest certificate required 

i*F. . 


. Third of 3 watchkeeping officers 
or 

2nd Mate F. 

2 I/ 4 H. 


. First Mate 

2nd Mate F. 


Note.— In certain circumstances service as second or third Mate in the Horn® 
Trade may be accepted (see Rule 38). 


Master (Foreign-going) 

Minimum age, 23 years. 

Minimum sea service,. 7F. or 10JH. 

Officer’s service as follows: — 

Years Lowest capacity Lowest certificate required. 




13/4F 


2 1/4H 

1 3/4F 

2F 

3 H 


First watcltkeeping officer 
(next in seniority to master), 
or 

First watch-keeping officer (not 
next in seniority to Master) . 
or 

First Mate .... 
or 

Second of 2 watchkeeping 
officers .... 

or 

Second or Third of 3 or more 
watchkeeping officers . 
or 

Master .... 


1st Mate F. 

1 st Mate F. 

1 st Mate F. 

1st Mate F. 

1st Mate F. 

2nd Mate F. or Master H for 
one year of such service. 


Note. — In certain circumstances service as Second or Third Mate in the Home Trade may 
be accepted (see rule 38). 

Certificates for Home Trade Ships 

The service required for these certificates may have been performed cither in Home Trade o* 
In foreign-going ships. 

Mate (Home Trade) 

Minimum age, 20 years. 

Minimum sea service 4 years. 

No officer’s service required. 

Master ( Home Trade) 

Minimum age, 23 ycats. 

Minimum sea service 5 years. 

Officer’s service as follows: — 


Years 


Lowest Capacity Lowest certificate required 


iH 

itH. . 
iJF, or 2|H 


rst Mate 

Or 

2nd Mate in charge of watch 
Or 

3rd Mate in charge of watch 


Mate H. or 2nd Mate F. 
Ditto 


Ditto 




rl5d4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Skc. 3 


APPENDIX H 


Specimen Certificate of Watchkeeping Service 
For a First Mate's or Master’s Certificate 

This is to certify that has served on the s.s -. . . 

tfrom to in the capacity of (1st) (2nd) (3rd) Watch-keeping 

officer. During this time was an officer in (Full) (effective) 

charge of a watch for eight hours out of every twenty-four hours at sea, except aa 
stated below. 

• Watches were not doubled at any time during the voyage.* 

Watches were doubled between the following dates and at no other times 

.......... .During this time server as the (f Se nior) of two 

(junior) 

.-Bridge-keeping Officersf . 

An entry to this effect has been made in the Mate's log. 

Signature of Master 


APPENDIX I 

List of Training Ships and Schools of Nautical Training which 

HAVE BEEN APPROVED 

. A. Approved training ships qualifying for remission of sea service under rule 51. 

T. S. “DUFFERIN”. H. M. S. "WORCESTER”. I 

T. S. "MERCURY”. H. M. S, “CONWAY”. 

Half time to count up to a maximum of twelve months T. S. “ARETHUSA”. 
Half time to count up to a maximum of six months. 

B. Approved residential Schools on shore qualifying for remission of sea 

service wider rule 52 (i). 

South African Nautical College, General Botha. 

Pangbourne: — Nautical College, Pangbourne, Berks, 

Elgin:— Gordonstoun School, Elgin, Morayshire. Half time to count up to a 
maximum of twelve months. 

Liverpool:— Indefatigable and National Sea Training School for Boys, Liver- 
pool. • Half time to count up to a maximum of six months. 

Southampton: — School of Navigation, University College, Warsash, Southamp- 
ton. Full time to count up to a maximum of nine months. 

C. — Approved Cadet courses at Technical Schools Qualifying for Remission of 

Sea Service under Rule 52 (ii) . 

Aberdeen: — Robert Gorden’s College, School Hill, Aberdeen. 

Cardiff: — Smith Junior Nautical School, Cardiff: Cardiff Technical College. 
Cathay's Park, Cardiff. 

Hull: — Kingston-upon-Hull High School for Nautical Training, Boulevard, 
Hull; Trinity House Navigation Schools, Hull. 

Glasgow: — Royal Technical College, George Street, Glasgow. 

Greenock: — Watt Memorial School, Dalrymple Street, Greenock. 

Leith: — Leith Nautical College, Commercial Street, Leith. 

Lewis: — Aird Public School, Lewis. (For Home Trade Certs only). 

Liverpool: — City of Liverpool Technical College, Nautical College Department 
■Clarence Street, Liverpool, 3. 

•London:— King Edward VII Nautical College, 680 Commercial Road, E. 14; 
London Nautical School (Rotherhithe), Broadwall, Blackfriars, S. E. I. 


•Delete this paragraph if watches were doubled at any time during the voyage. 
fStrlck out the words that do not apply. 

4: Delete this paragraph if watches were not doubled of any tune during the voyage- 



Part II— Sec. 8 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1984 15^5 


South Shields; — The South Shields Marine and Technical College, Ocean Road. 
'South Shields, 

Plymouth: — The Plymouth and Devonport Technical College, Plymouth. 

Half time to count in each case up to a maximum allowance of six months. 

D. Approved senior courses in Navigation qualifying for Remission of 
Sea Service under Rule 52 (Hi). 

Aberdeen: — Robert Gordon’s College, School Hill, Aberdeen. 

Bombay: — Nautical and Engineering College, Bombay. 

Bristol: — Merchant Venturers Technical College, Bristol. 

Cardiff: —Cardiff Technical College, Cathay’s Park, Cardiff. 

Dundee:— -Dundee Technical College, Bell Street, Dundee. 

Fleetwood: — Fleetwood Navigation School, Station Road, Fleetwood. 

Glasgow: — Royal Technical College, George Street, Glasgow. 

Hull: — -Kingston-upon-Hull Nautical College, Boulevard, Hull; Trinity House 
-Navigation Schools, Hull. 

Leith: — Leith Nautical College, Commercial Street, Leith. 

Liverpool: — Liverpool, Technical College, Central Technical School, Byrom 
Street, Liverpool, , 

London: — King Edward VII Nautical College, 680 Commercial Road, E. 1 . 
Plymouth: — Plymouth Municipal Technical College, Plymouth. 

South Shields: — The South Shields Marine and Technical College, Ocean Road. 
Southampton: — School of Navigation, University College, Southampton. 

Half time to count in each case up to a maximum allowance of three months. 

"An additional two weeks is allowed for each term in residence at the College. 


APPENDIX J 

Orders in Council providing that Commonwealth and Colonial Certificates or 
Competency as Master or Mate have the Same Force as those Granted 
by the Minister of Transport 

Note:— -With the exception of those made after 1906 all of the Orders in 
Council enumerated below were consolidated and superseded by an Order in 
Council dated 9 t.h May, 1891 , which as subsequently amended by an Order in 
Council of 22 nd October, 1906 , and by Orders of 1 . 1 th October, 1923 , and 11th 
.August, 1931 , relating to Australia, remains in force. 


Certificates 


Territory By whom granted Description Date of Original Date from which 

in Territory Order in Order in 

Council Council take* 

effect 


.{Victoria . 

•Marine Board 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

30 Mar. 1871 . 

4 Jan, 1870. 

Canada 

The Minister of 
Marine and 
Fisheries. 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

19 Aug. 1871 . 

19 Aug. 1871. 

'New Zealand 

Marine Deptt . 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

9 Aug. 1872 

1 May 1872. 

{New South 
Wales. 

t Department 
of Navigation. 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
2nd Mate. 

30 Aug. 1873 . 

18 June 1872. 

{South Australia 

Marine Board . 

Muter ; ist Mate 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

12th M 1/, 1874. 

12 M ay, 1874. 





1 566 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1934 


[Part II — Sec. $ 


Territory 

Certificates 

By whom granted Description 
in Territory. 

Date of Original 
Order in 
Council. 

Date from which 
Order in 
Council takes 
enect. 

I Tasmania 

Governor 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

12 Feb. 1876 . 

17 Apr. 1876. 

{Bengal 

Lieutenant- 

Governor. 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only -Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

27 June 187 6 ■ 

27 June, 1876. 

Newfoundland . 

Governor 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate, 

14 May, 1877 . 

14 May, 1877. 

JBombay . 

Governor 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate, 

11 July, 1877 . 

11 July, 1877- 

Queensland 

Marine Board . 

Master ; 1st Mate t 
2nd Mate. 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
2nd Mate. 

26 Mar. 1878 

1 Oct, 1877. 

Australia . , . 

[Department 
of Trade and 
Customs. 

11 Oct. 1923 . 

I Oct. 1923. 

South Africa 

Department of 
Customs and 
Excise, 

Master ; rst Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate, 

11 Aug. 1931 . 

I July 1928. 

India 

^'Department 
of Commerce. 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
2nd Mate. 

17 Dec. 1931 . 

I Apr. 1 929. 

Hong Kong 

Governor 

Master, 1st Mate ; 
Only Mate ; 2nd 
Mate. 

31 Dec. 1883 . 

1 Jan. 1884. 

Straits Settlements 

Government of 
Singapore. 

Master ; 1st Mate ; 
2nd Mate. 

1 May, 1890 . 

1 June, 1890. 


‘The Steam Navigation Board was superseded by the Marine Board on the 2ist December. 
1888. See Order in Council of 23rd November, 1893. 

IThe Marine Board was superseded by the Department of Navigation on the 17th March, 

1900. 

IThe issue of certificates of Imperial validity by the Governments of the separate States of the 
Commonwealth of Australia ceased on the 1st October, 1923, the date on which the issue of such 
certificates was undertaken by the Commonwealth Governments. 

JjThe issue of certificates of Imperial validity by the Provincial Government of Bengal and 
Bombay ceased on the 1st April, 1929, the date on which the issue of such certificates was taken over 
by the Government of India. 

IIThe issue of certificates was transferred to the Department of Shipping and Transport in 

1930. 

TjThc issue of certificates was transferred to the Ministry of Transport on the 1st February, 

I95i. 

Note. — The Orders in Council giving Imperial validity to certificates of competency issued 
in Malta and Mauritius were revoked by an Order in Council dated 18th August, 1916. 


APPENDIX K 
Sfbcimen Examination Papers 

The following arc specimen sets of Examination papers for all grades of Foreign-going and 
Home Trade Certificates of Competency. 

The following terms when used in these papers have the meanings shown : — 

(a) “ D. R. Position ’’ is that obtained by allowing for courses and distances only. 

(f>) “ Estimated position (E. P.) ” is that obtained by allowing for courses and distance®’ 
and for leeway and current, if any. 

(c) “ Chosen position ” is a position used for calculating an intercept of a heavenly body. 

(d) “ Intercept terminal point ” is the point on the position line at the end of the intercept. 





Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19 , 1954 


1567 


(c) “ Sextant altitude ” is that read off a particular sextant. 

(/) " Observed altitude ’’ is the sextant altitude corrected for index error, if any. 

All courses and bearings are given in 360° notation with letters C., M., T., for compass* 
magnetic and true respectively. 

Specimen set of papers for second mate (Foreign-going) 

GENERAL SHIP KNOWLEDGE 

Paper r (3 Hours) 

1. A class 1 A wooden lifeboat measures 26'.3 x 7-6x3 , .2. Find the maximum number of persons 
she may 'be certified to carry. 

2. The following cargo is stowed in No. 1. L.II. From the information given find the tota 
space occupied by it and also its dead-weight in tons. 

(OI300 tons of machinery in cases at 40 cu. ft. per ton. 

(ii) 57 cases of motor cars, i2 / x7 / X4 / .3 each and stowage factor 201 cu. ft. per ton. 

(m) 200 rolls of coir matting each roll measuring length 40*, diameter 32', stowage factor 
97 cu. ft. per ton. 

3. ( a ) Draw a sketch of a common type of cowl ventilator fitted on board a ship to ventilate 
a^lower hold as well as a Tween Deck. 

(b) Show in the above sketch how the wind is circulated when the ventilator is (i) on the wind 
(>0 off the wind. 

4. Define the following terms : — 

(i)[ Centre of Gravity (it) Centre of Buoyancy and (tit) Metacentre. 

5_( Describe fully the procedure for making the oil tanks in a tanker gas free. 

6. Describe briefly 

(i) Breast-Hook (ii) Blank flange (iii) Deadwood (in) Cofferdam (o) Safety lamp. 

7. What general precautions would you take when loading a cargo of coal ? 

8-1 How would you stow a cargo of tram lines for a sea voyage from America to India ? 

MATHEMATICS 

Paper 2 (1 Hours) 

Twenty five marks are allotted to each question and six questions only are to be answered. 

1. Solve the following equation. 

6 x a — 34 * + 44 — O 

2. The dimensions of a block of metal arc 1.237 ; 0.659 ; 0.484 meters respectively, and 
the weight of a cubic centimeter is 8.465 grams. Find the weight of the block in kilograms. 
Use logarithms to Lhc base 10. 

3. In a plane triangle ABC, angle B=54”, angle A -78°. If the bisector of angle C cuts 
AB at X, show that CA=CX. 

4. Prove : — 1 

Tan 1 6 7 A — Cot 8 A! Sin* A— Cos" A 


1 + Cot* A Cos* A 


5. In the spherical triangle ABC, angle A “-85°, 'angle B =90°, angle C = 85°. Find the 
hypot enuse. 

6. Draw a graph for the equation sin A+Cos A=Y, when A«* 0 °, io 0 - 20°, 30°, 40 , 50° 
and 60°. Find the value of A when Y is maximum. 

7. Calculate the diameter of a solid ball of cast iron whose weight is 90 lbs. Cast iron weight 
0.26 lbs. per cubic inch. 


PRACTICAL NAVIGATION 


Paper 3 (3 Hours) 

1. From the following particulars of an observation of the sun’s upper limb, near the 
meridian, required the direction of the position line and the latitude in which it crosses the D.R. 
Longitude : — 

Date at ship 8th January, 1952. D.R. position 30° io'N., I78°56' E., sextant altitude 37 31' 
I.E. Nil, height of eye 21 feet. Chronometer time ooh. 00m. 12s. Error on G.M.T. 
10m. 128. fast. 



1568 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Paht II — Sec, 3 


2. At about 0924 hours on 30th August, 1952, at ship in D.R. position t3°ii'N,, 47°io'B. . 
thes extant altitude of the sun’s lower limb was 53°34'> I-E. 2' off the arc. Height of eye 56 feet 
Chronometer time o6h, 24m. 40s. Error on G.M.T. 00m. 19s. fast. Vessel then steamed 078 0 T. . 
at 16 knots to apparent noon, when observed meridian altitude of the sun’s lower limb was 85 J 37/'-5 . 
Required the position of the ship at noon. 

3. On the morning of 22nd March, 1952, at ship in Longitude 55°52'E'., the sextant meridian 
altitude of star RASALHAGUE (46) was 75" 43'. 5 N. I.E., 2' on the arc. Height of eye 30 ft. 
Find the Latitude, 

4. On the morning of ;th April, 1952, in D.R. O7 n 4o' N 76°46'E the bearing of sta r 
FOMALHAUT (56) was 129'C, Chronometer time 11° 48™ 40s, chronometer error 02 m 14 s 
slow on G.M.T. Find the true bearing of the star, the error of the compass and the deviation. 
Variation 4°W, 

5. A vessel sailed from a position in latitude 37°I7'S., on a course of 231'T,, and changed 
her longitude by 17 0 , Find by Mercator’s sailing the latitude reached and the distance sailed, 

CHART WORK AND PILOTAGE 

Paper 4 (2 hours — excluding oral questions ) 

Chart No. 1577 — Western approaches to the Firth of Clyde. 

Deviation Card No. 5, Variation I4°W, and Speed 12 knots throughout. 

1. Find the course to steer by compass and also the distance on this course, from a position 
with the Rathlin o' Birne I. Lt. Ho. bearing 07i°T., distant 8 miles, to a position with Tory I. 
Lt. Ho. bearing i8o°T., distant 10 miles. 

2. Find the course to steer by compass from a position with Tory I. Lt. Ho. bearing I26°T., 
distant 7 miles to a position In latitude 55°53.4 N., on the eastern limit of orBay light, allowing 
for a current setting oij°T., at f; knots. Also find the time it will take the ship to cover the 
distance between these two positions. 

3. While proceeding on o86°C., Dubh Attach (47) Lt. bore 074°C., and after steaming for 
2 hours on this course it bore 329°C, Find the position of the ship at the time of taking the 2nd 
bearing if a current set 2T4 0 T., at 1.5 knots during the interval. 

4. Using the following horizontal angles find the latitude and longitude of the ship : — 

Cramtnag Head Lt. Ho. 56° Killantringham Lt. Ho. 63° Corsewall Pt. Lt. Ho. (Station 
Pointer may be used). 

5. Find the height of tide at 0010 Burma Standard Time on 7th March, 1952 at Mcrgui. 

6. Oral questions by the Examiner. 

PRINCIPLES OF NAVIGATION 

Paper 5 (2 hour*) 

Twenty five marks are allotted to each question and six questions only arc to be answered 
of which three must be those in Section A. 

Section A 

1. ( a ) Explain the difference between theoretical and visible sunsets ? 

(b) Find the G.M.T. of theoretical sunrise in 50°oo'N., 45 '00'W. on 28th August, 1952. 

2. Define (a) Eliptic ( b ) Right ascension of a heavenly body and (c) isr point of Arles. 
Illustrate your answer by a diagram. 

3. What do you understand by (a) Plane sailing ( b ) Middle latitude sailing and (c) Great drelo 
ailing ? 


Section B 

4. October 271I1 1952, at ship the time by chronometer for an observation of a celestial body 
was 27d. 04h. 47m. 51s. which was om, 54s. fast on 'noon G.M.T. on 29th May, 1952, and was 
30s. slow on noon G.M.T. on 16th July, 1952, Required the G.M.T. for the observation on 27th 
October, 1952, 

5. Explain fully what is meant by " Equation of Time ”, 

6. Give a brief description of the following (a) Date line, (b) Lunation, (c) Paralax, (d) 
Verlex. 

7. Describe the principle of a Mercator's chart. 

ENGLISH 

Paper 6 (1 ill hours) 

C mdidates are expected to write in clear and grammatical English paying due attention 
to spelli g, legibility and neatness. 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1569 


Subject : — An essay on 

“ Port facilities to a deck officer obtaining in any major port you know of” 

or 

“ Advantages and/or disadvantages of Navigational School authorities conducting Ministry 
of Transport examination for certificates of competency". 

Specimen set of Examination Papers for First Mate (Foreign-going) 

PRACTICAL NAVIGATION 

Paper 1 (3 hours) 

1. Find the S.M.T. of Meridian Passage of the Moon, in 36°i5 e N., I7°50'E. on 13th August 
1952. 

2. 19th March, 1952, ship in D.R. Position i9°4o'N., 89°45'E., morning twilight, Chron. 
Time 23 h. 56 m. 40s., error on G.M.T. oun. 20s. slow, sextant altitude of SHAUlA( 45) near 
the meridian was 33°25'. IE. I' .5 on the arc. Height of eye 45 ft. Find the direction of the 
position line and the latitude in which it crosses the D.R. Long. 

3. 20th January 1952, D.R. Position, 29°I5'N., I36°27'E., A.M. at ship, following observa- 
tions were taken. Height of eye 35 feet, obs. alt. of Moon’s L.L. 3° n 02'. Chron. Time 23I1. 
14m. 40s. Error 01m. slow on G.M.T. ObS. Alt. of Sun’s L.L. 15/43' Chron. Time 23I1. 15m. 
10s. Error 01m. slow on G.M.T. Find the ship’s position. 

4. Find the Great Circle distance, Initial and Final Courses from “A” to “B”, and the Latitude 
and Longitude of the vertex. 

“A” 38 !> 36 , N. I26°27'W. 

“B" I4°47'N. I47°54'E. 


for the 


. 10th May, 1952, in 39 0 oo'S., i39°oo'E., the sun rose bearing 049/C. Find the deviation 
c direction of the ship's head if the variation was i6°E. 


CH ARTWORK AND PILOTAGE 


Paper 2 (2 hours — excluding chart orals) 

Chart No. 2525 Hokianga to Tutukaka 
Deviation Card No. 1, Variation 16 E., throughout 

1. Estimated position of a ship was 34°28'S., I74 9 23'E. An observation of a heavenly body 

was worked from a chosen position in 34°25'S., and the intercept and the azimuth 

were ascertained as 5' . 5 towards and oSq'T., respectively ; and at the same time wireless bearing 
■of Cape Reinga station was 265°T. 

Find the ship’s position and the compass course to Btccr so as to pass 5 miles off Murinotu 
Lt. Ho, (326 ft,). 

2. From a position with Tutukaka Hr. Lt. Ho. bearing 270°T., an subtending a vertical 
extant angle of 53'4o", find the compass course, and distance on each courses to a position so as 
to raise Murinotu Lt. 30° on the port bow, altering course when Cape Brett Lt. Ho. bears 276°T., 
■distant 5 miles. Height of eye 40 feet. 

3. A ship in Lut. 34°36'S., observed Cape Maria Van Diemen Lt. Ho. in line with Cape 
Reinga Lt. Ho. Find the ship’s position. 

From this position find the compass course to steer so as to pass 7 miles off Cape Reinga Lt* 
Ho. allowing for a current setting 25o°T., at 2 knots. Ships’s speed 10 knots. 

4. While proceeding on 244°C,, Murimotu light just became obscured and at the same time 
Cape Reinga light bore 2I5°C. Find the ship’s position. 

5. Find the standard times and heights of High and Low water at Rcveley Island (A.T.T. 
.4458) on 14th March, 1952. 

.6. Oral questions by the Examiner. 

SHIP CONSTRUCTION AND’ STABILITY 
Paper 3 (3 hours) 

t. The semi-ordinates of a ship’s watcrplane, twenty feet apart, commencing from the 
stem arc : — 0, 10, 13.2, 14.3, 14. 3, 14. 1, 11-5, 6, and 3.2 feet respectively. Find the T.P.I. 

2. A vessel 410 ft. long is floating in salt water at a draught of 24 ft. 5 in. forward and 

26 ft. 3 in, aft, T.P.I. 48, M.C.T. 1'— 1000, C.F, amidships, C.G. of No. 1 hold 170 ft. forward 
of C.F., C.G. of No. 4 hold 100 ft. abaft C.F. Find the amount of cargo to be discharged f rom 
No. 1 and No. 4 holds to bring the vessel on an even keel draught of 24 ft. 6 in. ** 

3. Sketch a ship’s collision bulkhead illustrating fully the details of plating, stiffening an^ 
’hell' connections. 



1570 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part H— Sec. IT 


4. State the danger of “Free Surface” of liquids in a vessel. Describe the arrangements- 
made td counteract its effects in bulk oil carriers. 

5. How are the following tested for watertightness : — 

(а) Double Bottom tanks. 

(б) Collision Bulkhead. 

(1 c ) Hold Bulkheads and Decks. 

6. Describe the arrangements in the construction of a ship to withstand the stresses caused 
by pitching and pounding. 

7. Define Centre of Gravity, Transverse Metacentre and Initial Transverse Metacentric 
Heigfit. 

METEOROLOGY 

Paper 4 (a hours) 

1. Code the following, using the International^ Meteorological Code provided : — 

(a) Station Report : From Colombo, Ceylon, Dew point temperature 75°F., sky completely- 
covered, direction of wind 23O 0 T., force 8, visibility 5 nautical miles, present weather : 
state of sky on the whole unchanged, past weather : mainly overcast, barometer — 1 
1007. 8 millibars, dry bulb temperature 8TF. 

(b) Ship Report : Position Lat. I9°36'N., Long, 86 U Y8'E., G.M.T. 00.00 hrs., Thursday, 

5/8 of sky covered, direction of wind 240^, force 6 visibility 4 nautical miles, present 
weather : clouds generally dissolving or becoming less developed, past weather : 
variable sky, barometer-970 millibars, dry bulb temperatute 84T 7 . 

2. Describe the wind, weather and Barometric changes you would experience if situated to 
the southward of the path of a depression in the Northern Hemisphere. 

3. Describe briefly Orographic Cloud|and Rain and Fiihn Wind, 

4. Give a general description of the currents in the Strait of Gibraltar and in the Mediterranean; 

Sea. 

5. Describe a Hygrometer and state what information can be derived from it. 

SHIP MAINTENANCE, ROUTINE AND CARGO WORK 

Paper 5 (3 hours) 

x. A vessel of 3,980 tons Deadweight has on board 60 tons of stores and 430 tons of fufcl 
and water. Her hold capacities are as follows : — 

No. 1 52,530 c. ft- 
No. 2 5<5,78o „ 

No. 3 53,040 „ 

No. 4 48,900 „ 

She is to be loaded with cased goods stowing at 90 and marble blocks stowing at 20 cu. ft. per ton' 
State the amount of cargo of each commodity you would load in each hold so as to fill the vessel 
and bring her down to her marks. 

N. B . — The above vessel when full and completely loaded with an homogeneous cargo is in 
satisfactory trim. 

2. From the following particulars : — 

Samson post 30 feet high, derrick 32, feet long, span 20 feet long made fast to the head of the 
Samson post. The heel of the derrick is stepped 5 feet above the deck. 

Find the thrust on the derrick and the tension on the span when a|weight of 10 tonsjis sus- 
enced from the derrick head. Ignore weight of derrick and gear. 

3. A sling of cargo 10 tons in weight is to be lifted on two hooks by two three fold purchases 
rove to disadvantage. Calculate the size of rope to be used. S.W.L.=* 

4. (a) How would you treat a steel deck before laying wood sheathing ? 

(b) Describe how you would re-caulk a leaking wood deck. 

5. What particulars would you give when indenting for the^ following : — 

Shackles, mooring wire, wire foremast stays^cargojgin blocks and wires for lifeboat falls 

6. Your vessel is to load 6,000 tons of general cargo after discharging a full cargo of cement. 
Give the details of the work which should be carried out before commencing to load. 

7. Define the term “ Timber^Deck Cargo ”. How would*you*sccure a load of timber on 
deck ? 

8. What routine inspection and care are necessary for the maintenance of a ship’s steering 
gear in an efficient condition ? 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19 , 1954 


1571 


ELEMENTARY MAGNETISM, ELECTRICITY AND GYRO COMPASS 

Paper 6 (3 hour#) 

Each question carries 25 marks 

1. Explain with the aid of diagrams the relationship between the earth’s magnetism, variation 
and dip. 

2. What effect will a disturbing force have on a magnetic compass — 

(a) near the Poles ? 

( b ) on the Equator ? 

Give the reasons for your answers. 

3. What is the relationship between current, resistance and the e.m.f. ? The terminals of a 
■cell of e.m.f. 1 • 5 volts are joined together by a wire which has a resistance of t ohm. Calculate 
the current in the circuit when a resistance of 2 ohms is joined in series With the wire. Neglect 
the internal resistance of the cell. 

4. With the aid of diagrams explain the principle of a dynamo. 

5. Describe briefly the following : — 

Power, Inductance, Capacitor and Fuse. 

6. State briefly how a free gyroscope may be converted into a North seeking instrument, on 
ithe earch, at the equator. 

Specimen set of Examination Papers for Master (Foreign-going) 


PRACTICAL NAVIGATION 

Paper I (3 hours) 

1. Find the Standard Times and Heights of High Water and Low Water on 4th October, 
1952, at Dabo (A.T.T, 5032) and also the height of tide at 0540 hrs. on the same day. 

'2. Find by Great Circle Sailing— (a) initial course, (b) final course, ( c ) Distance and (<■/) 
.course on crossing the equator, between 

“ A ” in 30 °oo'N., I53°I5'W. and 
“ B ” in 3 o°oo'S., 80°I5'W. 

3. On 16th February, 19S2, in D. R. Position ayV/N., 67°3o'W., time by chronometer oSh 
01m. 35s. which was correct for G.M.T., the true altitude of an unknown star was 37*10' bearing 
259°C., compass error I4°W. Identify the star. 

4. Between what latitudes and upon what course, will a steamer make 32 miles of departure 
and i°02' difference of longitude by steaming 50 miles ? 

5. Explain how a single position line may be of use to the navigator when the ship is near 
the land. Illustrate your explanation by a diagram. 

MAGNETIC AND GYRO COMPASS 


Paper 2 (3 hours) 


1. A ship was swung for deviation and from the observations taken the following deviations 
■were found : — 


Ship’s Head Deviation 

by Compass 


Ship’s Head 
by Compass 


N. 

3 °W 

N-E. 

5 °E 

E. 

3 °W 

S.E. 

4 °W 


S. 

S.W 

W. 

N.W. 


Deviation 


°E 

°W 

°E 

5 °W 


Find the value of coefficients A, B, C, D and E and thence the deviations on ship’s head S.W - 
By W. by compass. 

2. Describe the three main causes of heeling error in a magnetic compass and state how they 
-are compensated. 

3, What is “ Lambda ” ? State how the value of Lambda is ascertained. 

With ship’s head o 3 0°C., dev. 4' I W., time taken by a vibrating needle to make 20 vibrations 
•on board was 40 secs., and for the same number of vibrations on shore, the time taken was 50 
«ecs. Find the value of Lambda for this ship’s heading. 



1572 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


4- The repulsive force between two poles Is 30 dynes when they are 6 ems. apart, what 
S It when this distance Is reduced by 2 cms. ? 

5. Explain briefly what effect the speed of a ship has on her gyro compass and how this- 
is compensated. 

In Lat. 50°oo' N., a ship was steaming 348T., at 15 kts. Find the speed error. 

6. ■Explain (a) Gyroscopic Inertia, (b) Procession. 

SHIP CONSTRUCTION AND STABILITY 


Paper 3 (3 hours) 

1. A vessel, floating in fresh water, has a compartment of her double bottom amidships, 
48 ft. long and 25 ft. broad, partially filled with salt water. The vessel’s total displacement is 
10,100 tons and the centre of gravity of the ship and water is 22 feet above th, keel. Find the 
loss of metacentric height due to slack water. 

2. A vessel whose form is not known has a certain draught at Madras, the sea water there 
being 64 lbs. per cubic' foot. Off Garden Reach jetty the water is 6zi lbs. per cubic foot, it 
is noted that after 120 tons of fuel, water, etc. , have been consumed on the voyage, the draught of 
the vessel is again what it was at Madras. What is the displacement of the vessel in salt water ? 

3. A rectangular shaped lighter 120 ft. long, 45 ft. broad and 11 ft. deep, .floating in salt water 
at 4 ft. eveu keel, has a collision bulkhead 7 ft. from the forward end. If the Bide is holed below 
water line forward of this bulkhead, what would be the trim of the lighter in thiB condition. 


4, (a) Define (j) Gross Tonnage, (if) Net Tonnage. 

(b) Name the spaces on board a ship which are allowed as exempted Bpaces in tonnage 
measurement* 

J. Explain the reasons why a steamer assigned a load line for carrying timber deck cargoes 
may load to a deeper draught than a similar vessel having an ordinary load line assigned to her. 

6. Describe how a stem tube is fitted in a single screw steamer, illustrate your answer with 
sketches, 

SHIPMASTER’S BUSINESS 

Paper 4 (a hours) 


1. Calculate the balance of wages due to a seaman from the following particulars : — 

Ordered on board 9 a.m. 20th March, 1952. Wages Rs, 75 per month. Wages on pro- 
motion from 19th June being Rs. 90 per month. Advance on joining Rs, 30. Allot-, 
ment Rs. 35 per month. Cash advancesl: £3-10-0 at Rs. 13.5 to £1 and 8 U.S. 
dollars at Rs. 480 to 100 dollars. Voyage ended 19th December, 1952. 

2. When Is a ship considered to be a Constructive Total Loss ? 

3. What conditions arc necessary to be fulfilled before a Notice of Readiness can be given to 
charterers ? 

4. What is the meaning of the following terms ? 

(a) Passenger, ( b ) Passenger Ship, (c) Unbcrthed Passenger Ship, (d) Pilgrim Ship.. 

5. What ships are required to maintain an Official Log Book and state what entries are re- 
quired to be made in it by law ? 

6. Describe the procedure for entering in your ship and penalties, if any, for failing to comply 
with the law in this regard. 

7. Under what circumstances can a master refuse to remit money home, in resocct of a 
British seaman, 

8. ($Is the master of a ship obliged to insert any stipulation regarding allotments made by a: 
seaman m the agreement with the crew ? 

(it) With reference to allotment notes what is meant by (a) near relative ( b ) 3 savings 
bank ? 


ENGINEERING AND ELECTRONIC NAVIGATIONAL AIDS 
Paper 5 (3 hours) 

Candidates must attempt question No. 4 and of the remainder two from Section A and three 
from Section B (six questions in all). Each question carries 25 marks. 

Section A 

1. Describe how steam is raised in a Scotch boiler ? 

2. Explain with examples what is meant by (a) Mechanical Advantage (6) Power. 

3. Describe with a diagram a refrigerating plant in which carbqn dioxide and brine are 
used. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1573 


Section B 

4. A vessel steering 090°T., at 12 knots observed an echo on her P.P. I. bearing 037° Green, 
range 10 miles, and 20 minutes later the same echo bore 048° Green, range 8 miles. Find by 
plotting, the true course and speed of the other vessel. Assume that no alteration of course or 
speed Is made by either vessel. 

5. Explain Ohm’s law. 

A 10 kilowatt dynamo generates current at no volts. How many 60 watt lampB can it light 
without overloading the dynamo ? 

6. What is the difference between a voltmeter and an ammeter? 

7. What are the three main natural phenomena which make radar possible? 

8. Describe briefly the principle of a Thermionic valve. 

METEOROLOGY 

Paper 6 (2 hours) 

I. The following is an extract from a Weather Bulletinfor Shipping : — 

Part I. TTT Cyclone warning Arabian Sea at twelve GMT fifteenth November aaa Cy- 
clonic storm in East Central Arabian Sea apparently severe centred at twelve GMT 
fifteenth November within one degree of latitude eighteen repeat eighteen degrees 
north longitude sixtysix repeat sixtysix degrees east with estimated central pressure 
nine hundred and ninety four repeat nine hundred and ninetyfour millibars aaa May 
move north to northeast aaa. 


Part II. Scattered showers south 

Arabian Sea. 




Pari V. 

SHIPS REPORTS 





53106 

754T2 

63005 

98021 

06186 


53070 

75312 

72713 

98031 

07529 


53x72 

65212 

82828 

15656 

00381 


53075 

73012 

42915 

890x1 

06630 

Part VI. ' 

STATION REPORTS 





99942 

84063 

72702 

98022 

07090 



82952 

80000 

98022 

07788 



90974 

81411 

96022 

05584 



73155 

80709 

98022 

06985 



63533 

80507 

97502 

08885 


99943 

05777 

52505 

98021 

06585 



10976 

61409 

98021 

07086 



49775 

83603 

96506 

06579 



46672 

80206 

96615 

07873 



41875 

73207 

97012 

06981 



35176 

82911 

97966 

06583 



28376 

32705 

97011 

07285 



22677 

62702 

99021 

07086 



1 1749 

20000 

98011 

06487 



31469 

72911 

98039 

06487 


99941 

78047 

70707 

96022 

08689 

Part IV. 


ANALYSIS 




IOOOI 

33388 

01512 




89294 

31866 

31S66 00210 




66880 

31663 

31866 32169 

31075 



44998 

31966 

31766 31867 

31966 



44002 

32067 

3x965 31665 

31667 

31868 

32067 

44006 

32072 

32265 31862 

31366 

31569 

32072 

44008 

32465 

32060 31062 

30568 

19191 


(a) Draw the weather chart from the above showing isobars at intervals of 4 millibars. 

(b) At the time of the above observations your vessel was in Lat. 22°oo'N,, Long. 63°00*E- 

steaming no°T., at 9.kts. 

Make a weather forecast for the next 12 hours. 

N. B . — A clear language decode Is not required in this question. The candidate may, if ha 
wishes, decode and plot the information directly on the chart. 

2. Describe any two of the four standard types of clouds. 



T 574 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. JUNE 19, 1954 


[Paht II — Sec. 3 


Specimen Set of Examination Papers for Mate (Home Trade) 
PRACTICAL NAVIGATION 

Paper i (3 hours) 

1. On 6th June 1952 in position i8°oo'N., 87°30'E., when the correct G.M.T. was loh. 58m 
32s., the sun bore 294°C. Required the error of the compasB and the deviation for the direction 
of the ship's head if the variation was iJ°W. 

2. On 19th February, 1952 ; in Longitude 87 D 50'E., the sextant altitude of the sun’s lowe r 
limb on the meridian was 57°oi', bearing south, height of eye 35 feet, index error 1 - 5 off the arc. 
Required the latitude. 

3. On 27th December, 1952, in E. P. 6°X3'N., 8 i° 44'E., when the time by chronomet er 
which was tm. 6s. slow on G.M.T. was o6h. 23m. 02s., the sextant altitude of the sun’s lower 
limb near the meridian was 6o°i5'' 5, height of eye 30 feet, index error 2'- o on the arc. Required 
the direction of the position line and the latitude in which it crosses the estimated longitude. 

4. On 15th April, 1952, in D. R. position 2o°05'N., 87°30'E., when the correct G.M.T. 
was 02h. 20m. oos., the sextant altitude of the sun’s lower limb, cast of the meridian was 33°40' ■ 5, 
height of eye 40 feet, index error 2' 1 o on the arc. Required the direction of the position line 
and a position through which it passes. 

ELEMENTARY SHIP KNOWLEDGE 

Paper 2 (2 hours) 

1. A vessel’s mean light draught is 8'o" with a displacement of 650 tons. The displacements 
corresponding to the mean draughts of 9'o", io'o', n'o', i2'o", i2'o r and i4'o' are 750, 850,9753, 
1100, 1250 and 1400 tons respectively. Construct a displacement curve and from the curve And 
the following : 

(а) Displacement at n'6' mean draught. 

(б) Deadweight at I3'6" mean draught. 

2. The displacement of a vessel is 1200 tons. A weight of 20 tons already on board is lifte d 
vertically upwards from the tank top and placed on deck. The distance between the tank top 
a nd the deck is 12 feet. Calculate the change In the position of the centre of gravity of the vessel . 

3. What is the main purpose of framing in the construction of a ship ? Sketch and des- 
cribe a type of framing with which you are familiar. 

4. Ships are allowed to load to a deeper draught in fresh water than in salt water. Give th e 
reason. 

5. What safety measures are necessary when (a) taking off hatch beams, and (ft) when placing 
them back in position 1 


CHARTWORK AND PILOTAGE 

Paper 3 (2 hours) (excluding oral questions) 

Chart No. 824 — White Point to Mergui. 

Deviation Card No. 1, Variation 2°W, and speed of 10 knots throughout. 

1. Required the compass courses to steer, and the distances on each course from a position 
with White Point bearing 0 |2"T., distant 14- 5 miles to a position with Reef Island Lt. Ho. 
bearing ooo“T., distant 12 miles, altering course when South Island of Launglon Bok, South 
Moscos Island (1186 feet) bears c>go G T., distant 8'5 miles. 

2. After steaming for 2 hours on I49°C., from a position I4°35'N., 97°2X'E., North Island 
of Maugmagom, Middle Moscos Island (1210 feet) bore 127-C., and Quoin Island bore o85°C. 
Find the ship’s position and the set and drift experienced. 

3. From a position with Reef Island Lt. Ho. bearing 340°T., distant 12 miles, set a course to 
pass 7 miles oil Great Ganister Island (1084 feet) allowing for a current estimated to be setting 
o8o J T., at 2 knots. Find the compass course to steer and the distance made good in one hour. 

4. A ship steering 036°T., is to alter course when the N. E. extreme of Grindstone I 

(Kathema kyun) is just open of Reef I., (Mibya kyun) and distant 3 miles from Reef I. Lt. Ho. 
<309 feet). Required 

(a) ship’s position at time of altering course. 

(ft) Vertical sextant angle subtended by Reef I. Lt. Ho. 

5. What correction must be applied to a cast of the lead when approaching Navalakhi at 
0610 (Indian Standard Time) on 10th July, 1952, before comparing it with the chart 

6. Oral questions by the Examiner. 



Part II— Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19 , 1054 i 57; 

METEOROLOGY 

Paper 4 (ij hourB) 

x. Describe the principle of a mercurial barometer. 

2. ( a ) How do you obtain the true direction of the wind on board a ship ? 

(b) Describe the wind indicated by force 6 Beaufort Scale. 

3. Give the various meteorological observations you would record in the Log Book whilst 
on watch at sea during the South west Monsoon, and name the instruments required for making 
these observations. 

4. Why is mercury generally used in the construction of a thermometer ? 

What is the boiling point on (a) the Centigrade scale thermometer, and ( b ) on the Fahrenheit 
thermometer? 

5. Explain the causes of the North East monsoon. 

6. What is the normal track of cyclones in the Bay of Bengal and during what months 
are these cyclones most severe? 

Specimen set of examination Papers for Master (Home Trade) 

CHARTWORK AND PILOTAGE (EXCLUDING ORAL QUESTIONS) 

Paper 1 (2 hours) v 

Chart No. 750. Wgst Coast of India — Malabar coast. Deviation Card No. x, and Variation 

3^"W- throughout. 

1. A ship in D. R. Position 09°50 , N., 76°Oi'E., observed the bearing of a star to be io8°T*» 
Intercept Nil. A course Was set to a position with Alleppcy Lt. bearing 090°T., distant 4J miles. 
After steaming for ih. 36m. at to knots, Alleppcy Lt. bore ii6°T. Find the distance off Alleppey 
Lt. at the time of taking this bearing. 

2. From the anchorage off Turcunapulli, 

(a) Find the compass course to steer to a position with Quilon Lt. (135 ft.) bearing 059°T., 
distant 5 miles ; 1 

( 4 ) after steaming for 2 hours at 10 knots on the compass course found in Q. 2 (a), the fol- 
lowing compass bearings were obtained to fix the ships position : 

Quilon Lt, (135 ft-) iooJ°C. 

Church and conspicuous Casuarina Tree. .... 052j°C. 

Find the distance off Quilon Lt., and the rate and direction of the current experienced since 
leaving the anchorage. 

3. From a position with Quilon Lt. (135 ft.) bearing 059^., distant 4 miles, find the compass 

course to steer to a position 08 ’40'N., 76 t ’42'E., allowing for a current setting 296°T., at 2* knots 
ship steaming 10-5 knots. Find also the distance made good in ij hours. “ * 

4. Off Chittagong on 20th October, 1952, find the height of the tide at 2205 Indian Standard 
Time. 

5. Oral questions by the Examiner. 

PRACTICAL NAVIGATION 

Paper 2 (2 hours) 

1. On 8 tli May 1952, at about 7-45 p.m. at ship in D. R, Position 2i t '35'N., 68°30'E., chro - 

nometer time 03h. 24m. 20 s., which was 6m. 20 s, fast on G.M.T., the Moon bore J29i°C Find 
the Moon’s true bearing, the error of the compass and the deviation for the direction of the ship's 
head if the variation was i°3o'E. , F 

2. Find the Indian Standard Time of meridian passage of the star BETELGUESE (16I on 

1st October, 1952, in Long, gs'oo'E. ' 

3. On 8th February, 1952, from the following observation of the Sun near the meridian* 
find the direction of the position line and the latitude in which it crosses the D. R, Longitude. 

D. R. Position I9°56'N., 89°35'E. 

Sextant altitude Sun’s lower limb, 54°i7 , 30'\ 

Index error 2'- 5 off the arc. 

Height of eye 20 feet. 

Chronometer tim e : o6h. 00m. 00s. 

Chronometer error : im. 403. fast on G.M.T. 



1576 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


4. From the following observation of a star east of the meridian, find the position line and si 
position through which it passes : — 

Date at ship : 6th July 1952, at about 5-30 am, 

D.R. Position o6°40'N., 82°oo'N. 

Sextant altitude ALDEBARAN (10) was 28°32'30". 

Index error i'-j on the arc. 

Height of eye 23 feet. 

Chronometer time : ooh. 00m. ois. which was correct on G.M.T. 

5. Using the Constellation of Ursae Majoris (Great Bear) as a guide, describe with a diagram- 
how you would find the star ARCTURUS (37). 

STABILITY AND SEAWORTHINESS 

Paper 3 (2 hours) 


1. Define the following : — 

Mctacentric Height and Righting Lever. 

2. A vessel of 3,230 tons displacement has a K.G., of 14 feet. She loads 1,200 tons of cargo 
which has a K. G., of 8 feet and 150 tons of bunkers with a K.G., of 10 feet. Find tire new 
K. G. 

3. A vessel of 2,600 tons displacement has a G. M., of 2- 3 feet. A parcel of cargo weighing 
roo tons, already on board, is raised 16 feet from the after entf of the lower hold and stowed ver- 
bally above in the after end of tire 'tween deck. Find the new G. M. 

4. A vessel whose tons per inch (T. P. I.) is 25 and moment to alter trim 1 inch (M. C. T.) 
450 foot-tons, is on an even keel draught of 12 feet at a certain instant during loading operations, 
when a weight of 50 tons, the centre of gravity of which is 95 feet abaft the centre of flotation, is 
loaded into No. 4 hold. Find the new draughts assuming the centre of flotation to be amid-- 
ships. 

3. Describe the precautions to be taken with a view to preventing the outbreak of fire in a 
cargo of coal. 

6. Whilst leaving dock, your vessel accidentally comes into contact with the dock wall in way 
of No. 1 hold. Two plates blow main deck level, arc appreciably indented and some frame 
are 9et in. Would you consider this to affect the seaworthiness of your ship 1 If so, what action 
would you take 

COMPASS DEVIATION 
Paper 4 (ij- hours) 

1. Describe the terms “ hard ” and “ soft ” iron and their properties with regard to acquir- 
ing and retaining magnetism. 

2. What kind of corrector is used to compensate for that part of the deviation caused by ver- 
tical soft iron, and where is this corrector usually placed ? Explain your reasons. 

3. What system of wiring should be used for the electric lighting of a compass from a D. C. 
supply ? Give your reasons. 

4. An old compass card is removed and re placed by a new one, Would the compensation 
for the old card do equally well for the new card 1 Explain the reasons for ypur answer. 

5. Having taken the following bearings of a distant object, find its magnetic oearing and 
construct a table of deviations on the headings given : — 


Compass Ship’s Compass 

Ship’s Head by Compass Bearing Head Bearing 

by 

Compass 


North 

N.E. 

East 

S.E. 




005 u 

South 

357 

. 


007 0 

S.W. 

354° 


* 

OTO° 

West 

355° 

J 

* 

359° 

N.W. 

001° 



- Part II — Sec. 3] 


1577 ’ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


METEOROLOGY 

Paper 5 (ij hours) 

i. A vessel steaming 045°T at 15 knots has an apparent wind of force 4 from right ahead. . 
What, in aemul fact, is the true force and direction of the wind 1 

i. Using the Beaufort weather notation, how would you log the following 
Overcast sky, passing showers, and unusual visibility 1 

3. Describe the use of the Hydrometer, and the Hygrometer. 

4. Describe the winds and currents in the Bay of Bengal in the month of May. 

5. In a Bay of Bengal Cyclone, the wind shifts from East to South-East. What semi-circle- 
of die storm are you in and what action would you take 

6. Decode the following message received from another ship:— 

53059 86100 72719 98031 06877. 


APPENDIX L 

Syllabus foh Voluntary Examination in Compass Deviation 

Written Examination (Time allowed 4 hours). 

Electric currents and their production. Simple cells. Electromotive force, 
resistance and current. Ohm’s Law, Polarisation. Magnetic fields and lines of' 
force. Induced magnetism. Hard and soft iron. The magnetic field of conductors. 
Carrying current. Solenoids and electro-magnets. Terrestrial magnetism. Hori- 
zontal force, vertical force, and dip. The effect of magnetic fields of all descrip- 
tions on the compass needle. ‘ Elementary principles of dynamos and motors. 

A fuller knowledge of the syllabus in Compass Correction for Master, with, 
in addition, the correction of coefficient E. The components of the permanent, 
magnetism of the ship, P.Q. and R; the soft iron rods, a, c, e & k. The relation 1 
severally of these components and rods to the various coefficients and to heeling, 
error. 

Swinging ship. Construction of deviation tables by bearings of a distant object,, 
reciprocal bearings and azimuths of a heavenly body. Practical analysis of a. 
deviation tabic and practical compass correction. 


APPENDIX M 
Forms of Certificates 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
CREST 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY 
As 


To 


No 

SECOND MATE OF A 
FOREIGN-GOING STEAM-SHIP. 


WHEREAS it has been duly reported that you have been found qualified to ■ 
fulfil the duties of SECOND MATE of a FOREIGN-going Steamship In the Mer- 
chant Service, the President of India does’ hereby, In pursuance of Act XXI of 
1923, grant you this Certificate of Competency. 


Dated this 

day of 

19 

Countersigned. 



Registered in the 


Secy, .to the Govt, of India. 

Directorate General of Shipping. 


Director General of 

Bombay. 


Shipping. 


N.B.— This Certificate of Competency is of the same force as if it had been 
granted under the Merchant. Shipping Act, 1894, but in case the holder is an alien, 
it is subject to the provisions of Section 5(1) of the U.K. Alien Restriction (Amend- 
ment) Act, 1919. 

Signature of Owners 

Date of Birth 


Place of Birth 

This Certificate is given upon an Examination passed at 
on the day of 


19 



1578 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Issued at the Port of on the day of 

19 

Officer. 


Additional Qualifications 


This Certificate is liable to be cancelled or suspended by the appropriate Court 
or Tribunal under Sub-section (6) of Section 478 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 
1894 (57 and 58 Viet., Ch. 60) or by the Central Government under Section 260 
of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (Act XXI of 1923). Any Master or 
Mate who fails to deliver up a Certificate which has been cancelled or suspended 
is liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs, 500. 

N.B. — Any person other than the owner thereof becoming prossessed of this 
Certificate is required to transmit it forthwith to the Principal Officer, Mercantile 
Marine Department, Bombay. 

Calcutta, 


Forms of Certificates 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

CREST CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY 

As 

No 

FIRST MATE OF A 
FOREIGN-GOING STEAMSHIP 

To 

WHEREAS it has been duly reported that you have been found qualified to 
fulfil the duties of FIRST MOTO of a Foreign-going Steamship in the Merchant’ 
Service, the President of India does hereby, in pursuance of Act XXI of 1923, 
grant you this Certificate of Competency. 

.Dated this day of 19 

Countersigned. 

Registered in the 

Secretary, to the Governmen t of India. 

Directorate General of Shipping, Director General of 

Bombay Shipping. 


N.B. — This Certificate of Competency Is of the some force as if it had been 
granted under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, but In case the holder is an alien, 
it is subject to the provisions of Section 5(1) of the U.K. Alien Restriction (Amend- 
ment) Act, 1919. 

Signature of Owner » 

Date of Birth 

Place of Birth 

This Certificate is given upon an Examination passed at 

on the day of..,. 19 

Issued at the port of on the day of 19 

Officer, 


Additional Qualifications 


This Certificate is liable to be cancelled or suspended by the appropriate Court 
or Tribunal under Sub-section (5) of Section 478 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 
1894 (57 and 58 Viet., Ch, 60) or by the Central Government under Section 260 
of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act,1923(Act XXI of 1923). Any Master or 
Mate who fails to deliver up a Certificate which has been cancelled or suspended 
Is liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs. 500. 

N.B. — Any person other than the owner thereof becoming possessed of this 
Certificate is required to transmit it forthwith to the Principal Officer, Mercantile 
Marine Department, Bomb ay. 

Calcutta, 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1579 ^ 


Forms of Certificates 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

CREST CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY 

As 

No 

MASTER OF A 
FOREIGN-GOING STEAMSHIP' 


To 

WHEREAS it has been duly reported that you have been found qualified 
to fulfil the duties of MASTER of a Foreign-going Steamship in the Merchant 
Service, the President of India docs hereby, in pursuance of Act XXI of 1923, 
grant you this Certificate of Competency. 

Dated this day of 19 

Countersigned. 

Registered in the _ Secy, t o the Govt, of India. 

Directorate General of Shipping, Bombay. Director General of Shipping. 


N.B. — This Certificate of Competency is of the same force as if it had been 
granted under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1894, but in case the holder is an alien, 
it is subject to the provisions of Section 5(11 of the U.K. Alien Restriction (Amend- 
ment) Act, 1919. 

Signature of Owner 

Date of Birth 

Place of Birth 

This Certificate is given upon an Examination passed at 

on the day of 19 

Issued at the port of on. the day of 19 

Officer. 


Additional Qualifications 


This Certificate is liable to be cancelled or suspended by the appropriate Court 
or Tribunal under Sub-section (5) of Section 478 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 
1894 (57 and 58 Viet., Ch. 60) or by the Central Government under Section 260 
of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (Act XXI of 1923). Any Master or 
Mate who fails to deliver up a Certificate which has been cancelled or suspended 
is liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs. 500. 

N.B.— Any person other than the owner thereof becoming possessed of this 
Certificate is required to transmit it forthwith, to the Principal Officer. Mercantile 
Marine Department. Bomb ay. 

Calcutta. 


Forms of Certificates 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
CREST 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY 

As 


To 


No 

MATE 

OF A HOME TRADE STEAMSHIP' 


WHEREAS it has been duly reported that you have been found qualified to 
fulfil the duties of MATE of a Home Trade Steamship in the Merchant Service, 
the President of India does hereby, in pursuance of Act XXI of 1923, grant you 
this Certificate of Competency. 


Dated this day of 16 

-Countersigned. 

Registered in the S ecy, to the Govt, of India . 

Directorate General of Shipping, Director General of 

Bombay, Shipping. 




[Part II — Sec. 3 


1580 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


Signature of Owner 

Date 0 f Birth 

Place of Birth 

This Certificate is given upon an Examination passed at 

on the day of 19 

Issued at the port of on the. , day of 19 

Officer. 


Additional Qualifications 


This Certificate is liable to be cancelled or suspended by the Central Govern- 
ment under Section 260 of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, (Act XXI 
of 1923. Any Master or Mate who fails to deliver up a Certificate which has been 
cancelled or suspended is liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs. 500. 

N.B, — Any person other than the owner thereof becoming possessed of this 
Certificate is required to transmit it forthwith to the Principal Officer, Mercantile 
Marine Department, Bombay. 

Calcutta. 


Forms of Certificates 


- GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
CREST 


GOVERNMENT OP INDIA 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPETENCY 
As 


No 

MASTER 


OF A HOME TRADE STEAMSHIP 

To 

WHEREAS it has been duly reported that you have been found qualified to 
fulfil the duties of MASTER of a Home Trade Steamship in the Merchant 
Service, the President of India does hereby, in pursuance of Act XXI of 1923, 
grant you this Certificate of Competency. 


Dated this day of 19 

Countersigned. 

Registered in the Secy, to th e Govt, of India.. 

Directorate General of Shipping, Director General of 

Bombay Shipping. 


Signature of Owner 

Date of Birth 

Place of Birth 

This Certificate is given upon an Examination passed at 

on the day of 19 

Issued at the port of on the day of 19 

Officer. 


Additional Qualifications 


This Certificate is liable to be cancelled or suspended by the Central Govern- 
ment under Section 260 of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923, (Act XXI 
- of 1923). 

Any Master or Mate who fails to deliver up a Certificate which has been can- 
celled or suspended is liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs. 500. 

N..B. — Any person other than the owner thereof becoming possessed of this 
'Certificate is required to transmit it forthwith to the Principal Officer, Mercantile, 
Marine Department, Bombay, 

Calcutta. 


[No. 104-MI (12) /48MA.] 
S. K. GHOSH, Dv. Secy. 



Part II — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1581 


(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi , the 1 6th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1986. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 225 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules, namely: — 

Preliminary 

1 . Short title.-— These Rules may be called the Indian Merchant Shipping 
(Carriage of Dangerous Goods) Rules, 1954. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a) "Act” means the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923). 

(b) “dangerous goods” means any of the goods specified in items (i) to (viii) 
(both inclusive) of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 and includes any other goods of a 

'dangerous character to which the provisions of these rules may, from time to 
time, be applied by an order of the Central Government in this behalf, but do 
jiot include — 

(i) goods forming part of the equipment or stores of the ship in which 

they are carried; 

(ii) goods which neither the owner of the ship nor any of his servants or 

agents know, or could with reasonable diligence have known, or had 
reasonable grounds for suspecting, that the goods were dangerous 
goods; 

(c) “explosive” has the same meaning as in the Indian Explosives Act, 1884 
'(IV of 1884) ; 

(d) "steamer” includes a ship propelled by electricity or other mechanical 
power. 

3. Application of the rules , — (1) Rules 4 to 10 (both inclusive) shall apply to — 

(a) all Indian ships; and 

(b) other ships while they are loading cargo within any port in the 

territory of India or within the territorial waters of India. 

(2) Rule 11 shall apply to all ships to which rules 4 to 10 (both inclusive) do 
not apply while such ships are within any port in the territory of India. 

(3) Rule 12 shall apply to all ships referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2). 

Description and Classification of Dangerous Goods. 

4. (1) No dangerous goods shall be taken on board any ship to which these 
rules apply for carriage in that ship, unless the shipper of the goods has fur- 
nished the owner or master of the ship with a statement in writing as regards 
the identify of the goods and the nature of the danger to which the said goods 
give rise, indicating at the same time to which of the following categories the 
.said goods belong, namely: 

(i) explosives; 

(ii) compressed, liquefied and dissolved gages; 

(iii) corrosives; 

(iv) poisons; 

(v) substances giving off inflammable vapours; 

(vi) substances which become dangerous by interaction with water or air; 

(vii) strong oxidising agents; 

< viii) substances which are liable to spontaneous combustion; 

• (ix) laboratory chemicals and medicinal preparations in limited quantities; 

(x) Other dangerous goods, 

Explanation . — For the purposes of these rules, a laboratory chemical or 
medicinal preparation shall be treated as being in a limited quantity if and only 
if the quantity of that chemical or preparation is limited to an extent authorised 
or approved by the Central Government or by any authority appointed by the 
Central Government for the purposes of administering these rules, 

(2) The master of the ship shall cause a list to be prepared and carried in 
Ihe ship setting forth, in accordance with the information furnished under the 



1582 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sue. 3 


foregoing provisions of this rule, the dangerous goods carried in the ship on the 
voyage in which she is currently engaged. 

Marking 

5. No dangerous goods, being goods contained in a vehicle, receptacle or 
package, shall be taken on board a ship to which this rule applies for carriage 
in that ship unless the vehicle, receptacle or package in which the goods are 
contained is clearly marked with a distinctive label or stencil purporting to 
indicate the nature of the danger to which the goods give rise, ana if the goods 
are taken on board the ship at any port in India or within the territorial waters 
of India, a label or stencil puurporting to indicate the identity of the goods. 

Note.— W here goods are taken on board a ship together with the vehicle in 
which they are contained, or where goods are taken on board a ship together 
with the receptacle in which they are contained, being a receptacle which is 
an additional body for a vehicle and is constructed or adapted for the purpose 
of being taken on or off the vehicle with goods contained therein, nothing in 
the foregoing provisions of this rule shall be taken to require any such receptacle 
or any package in which the goods in the vehicle may be contained, or, as the 
case may be, any package In which the goods in the receptacle may be contained, 
to be also marked. 


Packing and Carriage in Bulk 

6. (1) No dangerous goods, being goods which are not loaded in bulk, shall 
be taken on board any ship if from the. statement under rule 4 or markings under 
rule 5 to which this rule applies for carriage in that ship if the owner of the 
ship or any of his servants or agents knows or could with reasonable diligence 
have known that having regard to their nature the goods are not packed in a 
manner adequate to withstand the ordinary risks of handling and transport by sea: 

Provided that in any proceedings against an owner or master in respect of 
a failure to comply with the provisions of his rule, it shall be a good defence 
to prove that before the goods were taken on board the ship. 

(a) the owner or master was furnished with a statement in writing by 

the shipper to the effect that the goods were packed in accordance 
with the requirements of this rule and 

(b) neither the owner nor any of his servants or agents had any know- 
ledge that the goods were -not so packed. 

(2) No dangerous goods shall be loaded in bulk into any ship to which this 
rule applies for carriage in that ship if from the statement under rule 4 or mark- 
ing under rule 5 the owner of the ship or any of his servants or agents knows 
or could have with reasonable diligence known or had reasonable grounds for 
suspecting that the goods cannot safely be carried *in bulk to the destination to 
which they are consigned. 


Stowage 

7. Dangerous goods stated as dangerous goods under rule 4 or marked 
dangerous under rule 5 and any vehicle, receptacle or package containing 
dangerous goods, taken on board any ship to which this rule applies for carriage 
in that ship shall be stowed in the ship, and shall be kept as stowed, in a 
manner which is a safe and proper manner of stowage for the goods ,or, as the 
case may be, for the vehicle, receptacle or package having regard to the identity 
and dangerous nature indicated by the markings referred to in rule 5. 

Carriage of Dangerous Goods in Passenger Steamers 

8. (1) No explosives shall be taken on board any ship to whi«h this rule 
applies being a passenger steamer, for carriage in that ship, except. 

(a) any explosive set forth in the First Schedule annexed hereto; 

(b) any explosives the total weight of which does not exceed 20 lb., in- 

cluding their immediate casing or packing; 

(c) any distress signal rockets for use in ships or aircrafts, if the total 

weight of such rockets does not exceed 1 ton; 

(d) Fireworks set forth in the Third Schedule annexed hereto. 

(2) Distress signal rockets or fireworks set forth in the Third Schedule 
annexed hereto carried in a passenger steamer to which this rule applies shall 
be stowed under the supervision of a person appointed for that purpose by the- 
master of the ship in writing signed by him. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19. 1954 1583 


(3) No dangerous goods set forth in the Second Schedule annexed hereto 
(other than laboratory chemicals and medical preparations in limited quantities) 
shall be taken on board any ship to which this rule applies, being a passenger 
steamer, for carriage in that ship. Provided that nothing in this rule shall pro- 
hibit the taking of dangerous goods on board a passenger steamer in respect 
of which there is in force a certificate issued by the Central Government, or 
by any authority empowered in that behalf by the laws of any country other 
than India, to the effect that the steamer is fit to carry a number of passengers 
not exceeding 25 or a number equal to one-tenth of the length of the ship in 
feet, whichever shall be greater. 

Carriage of Inflammable Liquids 

9. No liquids which from the statement under rule 4 or marking under rule 5 
the owner of the ship or any of his servants or agents knows or could have with 
reasonable diligence known or had reasonable grounds for suspecting to be 
inflammable shall be taken on board any ship to which this rule applies for 
carriage in that ship as cargo unless ventilation, adequate in the circumstances, 
is provided for the spaces in which the liquids arc to be carried . • 

Carriage of Substances Liable to Spontaneous Combustion 

10. No substance which from the statement under rule 4 or marking under 
rule 5 the owner of the ship or any of his servants or agents knows or could 
have with reasonable diligence known or had reasonable grounds for suspecting 
to be liable to spontaneous combustion shall be taken on board any ship to which 
this rule applies for carriage in that ship as cargo unless precautions proper in the 
circumstances are taken for the prevention of the spontaneous combustion of such 
substances. 


Application of Rules in Certain Cases 

11. No dangerous goods shall be carried in any ship to which this rule applies 
unless — 

(a) in the case of a Safety Convention Ship, the goods are being carried 

in accordance with the law relating to the carriage of such goods 
of the country in which the ship is registered and all the pro- 
visions of that law in so far as the same are applicable have been 
complied with; or 

(b) in the case of any other ship, the provisions of these rules which would 

have been required to have been complied with if the goods had 
been taken on board the ship in India, have been complied with 
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 3: 

Provided that the Central Government may exempt any ship from any of the 
requirements of these rules which are required to be complied with in the case 
of that ship by virtue of para (b) of this rule, if they are satisfied that the 
requirements of the law relating to the carriage of dangerous goods of the 
country in which the ship is registered have been complied with and are not 
less effective than the said requirements of these rules. 

Penalty 

12. If any of these rules is not complied with in relation to any ship, the 
owner or master of the ship shall be liable to a fine which may extend to three 
thousand rupees and the ship shall be deemed for the purpose of Part V of the Act 
to be an unsafe ship. 


First •Schedule 
See rule 8(1) (a) 

Explosives which may be taken on Board Passenger Steamers. 

Ajax Percussion Caps. 

Antifyre Percussion Caps. 

Battery Pockets. 

Bullseye Percussion Caps. 

Cardox Heater D. 

Cartridge for Martin Cutter, 

Cartridges, bolt, cable cutting, linked, punch or rocket, 

Cases, Cartridge, Capped. 

Cases for Turbo-Starter Cartridges (Empty), Primed. 



1584 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


Cordtex. 

Curtis’s and Harvey’s Safety Electric Fuzes. 

Delay Fuze Assembly (10 Seconds). 

Drogue Ejector Cartridges. 

Eley Kynoch No. 91 Percussion Cap. 

Eley Kynock No. 1A Percussion Cap- 
Excelsior Safety Electric Fuzes. 

Ferrule Igniter for Safety Fuze. 

Flame Detector Cord. 

Fuzehead Assemblies. 

Hyijrox Igniter No. 1 Safety Electric Fuze. 

Igmters for Grenades. 

Kynoch Fog Signal Caps. 

Kynoch No. 41 Percussion Cap. 

Kynoch No. 70 Percussion Cap. 

Kynoch No. 81 Percussion Cap. 

Kynoch Rail Car Fog Signals. 

M.O.C. Cartridges (Type I). 

M.O.C. Cartridges (Type 4). 

M.O.C. Cartridges (Type 6). 

Multiple Safety Fuze Igniters. 

Nicorro Percussion Caps. 

Nobel’s Election Delay Action Fuzes. 

Nobel’s Safety Electric Fuzes. 

Nobel’s Safety Electric Delay Fuzes. 

Norres Patent Fuze Lighters. 

Orion Patent Safety Electric Fuzes, 

Percussion Caps, O, in C. No. 1. 

Plastic Core Safety Fuze. 

Push Mechanism Type 6. 

Pull Mechanism Type 0. 

Railway Fog Signals, O. in C. No. 1. 

Release Mechanism Type 0. 

Safety Cartridge Cases (Empty), Capped. 

Safety Electric Primers. 

Safety Firing Tubes, No. 1, 

Safety Fuze, O. in C. No. 1. 

Safety Fuze Lighters. 

Safety Instantaneous Fuze. 

Schermer Cattle Killer Cartridges. 

Special Safety Fuze. 

Thermal Gas Closing Cartridges. 

Trip Fuzes. 

Turbo-Starter Primers. Electrically Fired, 15 grain. 
Tyre Sound Signals. 

Venus Patent Safety Electric Fuzes. 

Vulcan Patent Safety Electric Fuzes. 

Vickers’ Percussion Caps. 

Vulcan Patent Electric Dely Action Fuzes. 

Any safety cartridges not specified above. 


Second Schedule 
See rule 8(3) 

Dangerous Goods which may not be taken on Board Passenger Steamers. 
Category (ii) — Compressed, liquefied ancl dissolved gases. 

Boron Trlfluoride. 

Carbon Monoxide. 

Coal Gas. 

Fluorine. 

Hydrogen. 

Ammonia Anhydrous, unless In cylinders. 

Blau Gas. 

Butadiene. 

Chlorine. 

Cyanogen. 

Dimethyl Ether. 

Dimethylamine. 

Ethyl Chloride, unless in cylinders. 

Ethylene. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


i5 8 5 


Ethylene Oxide. 

Ethylene Oxide. 

Ethylene Oxide/Carbon Dioxide Mixture. 

Ethylene Oxide/Nitrogen Mixture. 

Hydrogen Chloride. 

Hydrogen Cyanide, Stabilised. 

Hydrogen Fluoride. 

Hydrogen Sulphide. 

Methylamine. 

Methyl Bromide. 

Methyl Chloride, unless In cylinders. 

Nitrogen Tetroxide. 

Nitrosyl Chloride. 

Oil Gas. 

Phosgene. 

Sulphur Dioxide, unless in cylinders or glass syphons. 

Trimethylamine. 

Acetylene. 

Category ( iii) — Corrosives. 

Antimony Pentachloride, unless in containers of 2J gallon capacity or under. 
Antimony Trichloride, unless in containers of 2J gallon capacity or under. 
Benzoyl Chloride. 

Chloroacetyl Chloride. 

Chlorosulphonic Acid. 

Diphenylmethyl Bromide. 

Fluoboric Acid. 

Fluosilicic Acid. 

Hydriodic Acid. 

Hydrobromic Acid. 

Hydrochloric Acid. 

Hydrofluoric Acid Solutions. 

Mixed Acid. 

Nitric Acid. 

Perchloric Acid. 

Phosphorus Pentachloride. 

Phosphorus Tribromide. 

Phosphorus Trichloride. 

Phosphoryl Chloride. 

Silicon Tetrachloride, unless in containers of 2£ gallon capacity or under. 
Sludge or Spent Acid. 

Stannic Chloride, Anhydrous. 

Sulphur Chlorides. 

Sulphuric Acid, specific gravity exceeding 1.-405. 

Sulphuric Acid, Fuming. 

Sulphuryl Chloride. 

Thionyl Chloride. 

Titanium Tetrachloride. 


Category (iv) — Poisons. 

Bromine and Bromine Solutions. 

Chloropicrin. 

Hydrogen Cyanide. 

Methyl Bromide. 

Motor — Fuel — Anti-Knock compounds, unless in containers of 5 pint capacity 
_ or under. | 

Tetraethyl Lead, unless in containers of 5 pint capacity or under. 

Category (v) — Substances giving off inflammable vapours. 

Benzyl Chloride. 

Carbon Disulphide. 

Enamels, lacquers, paints and varnishes, with a flash point below 73°F„ unless 
in containers of 10 gallon capacity or under. 

Di-ethvl-ether. unless in containers of 1 gallon capacity or under. 

Ethyl Chloride. 

Ethylene Oxide. 

Nickel Carbonyl. 

Other substances with a flash point below 73'F., unless in containers of § gallon 
capacity or under. 



1586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Category (vi)— Substances which become dangerous by inter-action with water. 
Aluminium Powder (unpolished), unless in glass or earthenware containers. 
Aluminium Silicon, in powder form. 

Barium Alloys, non-pyrophoric. 

Barium Metal. 

Calcium Metal and Alloys, non-pyrophoric. 

Calcium Carbide. 

Calcium Phosphide or articles charged wholly or mainly with Calcium Phos- 
phide. 

Calcium Silicide. 

Calcium Silicon. 

Ferro-Silicon containing 15 per cent, to 80 per cent. Silicon, both figures 
inclusive. 

Magnesium Alloy Powder, unless in glass or earthenware containers or in tins 
or cans. 

Potassium Metal. 

Sodium Metal. 

Sodium Phosphide. 

Strontium Alloys, non-pyrophoric, unless in glass or earthenware containers. 
Zinc Phosphide, 

Category (vii) — Strong Oxidising Agents. 

Potassium Bromate. 

Sodium Bromate. 

Ammonium Chlorate. 

Barium Chlorate. 

Potassium Chlorate. 

Sodium Chlorate. 

Strontium Chlorate. 

Zinc Chlorate. 

Chloric Acid. 

Calcium Chlorite. 

Sodium Chlorite. 

‘Guanidine Nitrate. 

Ammonium Perchlorate. 

Barium Perchlorate. 

Calcium Perchlorate. 

Lead Perchlorate- 
Magnesium Perchlorate. 

Potassium Perchlorate. 

Sodium Perchlorate. 

Ammonium Permanganate. * 

Hydrogen Peroxide Solutions greater than 0 per cent, strength. 

Category (viii) — Substances which are liable to spontaneous combustion. 

Cotton, wet. 

Diethyl Zinc. 

Di-methyl-p-nltrosoaniline. 

Fibres, burnt, wet or damp. 

Fishmeal or fish scrap, unless in sealed metal containers. 

Iron Oxide, spent. 

Linoleates, resinates and other driers in solid form. 

Phosphorus, white or yellow. 

Category (ix) — Other Dangerous Goods. 

Ammonium Picrate, wet. 

Benzoyl Peroxide. 

Celluloid in the form of scrap, dust, shavings, pieces or stripped film. 
Di-nitro-ortho-cresol, wet or fused solid. 

Di-nitro-phenol, wet. 

Dinitrophenolates. 

Di-nitro-resorcinol, wet. 

Hessian bags, used (unless continuously used for inert material) , 

Lacquer base and chips with nitrocellulose base. 

Nitrocellulose, wet. 

Picric Acid, wet. 

Sodium di-nitro-ortho-cresolate, wet. 

Sulphur (Lump, roll or stick), unless in glass or earthenware containers or in 
drums, casks, cases or double hessian bags. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1587 


Sulphur (powder), unless in glass or earthenware containers, or in drums, 
casks or cases. 

Zirconium Metal. 


Third Schedule 
See rule 8(1) (d) 

Fire Works 

1. Coloured fires and lights (other than Socket distress signals, Socket light 

signals and Sound Socket signals) . 

2. Balloon fireworks, 

3. Roman candles. 

4. Wheels. 

6. Bouquets. 

6. Saxons. 

7. Blue devils. 

8. Black jacks. 

9. Snakes. 

10. Golden rain. 

11. Port fires or blue candles. 

12. Starlights. 

13. Tourbillions. 

14. Suns. 

15. Devil-among- tailors. . 

16. Gerbs. 

17. Flower-pots. 

18. Fountains. 

19. Amorces. 

20. Throwdowns. 

21. Crackshots. 

22. Squibs. 

23. Prince of Wales feathers. 

24. Lances. 

25. Crackers. 

26. Catherine wheels. 

27. Sclntilettes. 

28. Lightning paper in envelopes. 

29. Mines, not exceeding 2 lbs. gross weight. 

30. Maroons (other than Aerial Maroons), not exceeding 4 ozs. gross weight. 

31. Rockets (other than Maroon Rockets, Guncotton Rockets and Flights of 

Rockets) . 1 

32. Jack-in-the boxes, not exceeding 2 lbs. gross weight. 

33. Chinese crackers, not exceeding 4 inches in length. ' 

The above fireworks other than Amorces, Throwdowns and Crackshots must 
not contain their own means of ignitions. 


[No. 50-MA(2)/53J 
D. D. SURI, Under Secy. 



1588 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1954 

S.R.O. I9G7. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian 
Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Provi- 
dent Fund Rules, 1949, the same having previously been published as required by 
sub-section (1) of the said section, namely: — 

In the said Rules in clause (b) of rule 18 the following words shall be added 
at the end, namely: — 

“or if he resigns his employment with the permission of the Committee to 
take up service with the Central or State Governments, or a Committee constituted 
in relation to a commodity other than oilseeds.” 


[No. F.5-24/54-Com.-L] 
A. N. BERY, Dy. Secy. 


(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 10 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1968. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricul- 
tural Produce (Grading & Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following rules, in supersession of the Wool (Grading 
& Marking) Rules 1953, the same having been previously published as required 
by the said Section: — 

1. Short title. — (a) These rules may be called the Wool Grading and Marking 
Rules, 1953. 

(b) They shall apply to wool obtained from sheep in any part of India except 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir and of specified trade descriptions as set out 
in the annexed schedules. 

2. Grade Designations. — The grade designations to indicate the characteristics 
and quality of wool of specified trade description other than ginned wool are 
set out in column 1 of Schedule I. The grade designation of ginned wool is set 
out in Schedule II. 

3. Definition of quality. — The definition of quality indicated by the grade desig- 
nations is specified in columns 2 to 5 of Schedule I. 

4. Grade designation mark. — The grade designation mark to be applied to 
each bale of package shall consist of a label bearing the design set out in Schedule 


5. Method of marking . — The grade designation mark shall only be applied on 
full or half pressed bales, as the case may be, in a manner approved by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India. The following parti- 
culars shall be clearly indicated on the label: — 

(i) Serial number; 

(ii) Grade; 

(Hi) Colour; 

(iv) Yield percentage; 

(v) Name of place of packing; 

(vi) Date of packing and marking: 

Provided that an authorised packer may stamp or write his private trade 
mark on the bale or package, if such private trade mark represents the same 
colour quality and grade of wool as that indicated by the Agmark label and is 
duly certified by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to that effect. 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1589 


6. Method of Packing . — The wool shall be press-packed with covering of new 
gunny cloth in bales with sufficient number of bands tightly placed around the 
bale of customary weights of 200 to 450 lbs. (90.7 to 204,1 kg.) . 

7. In addition to the conditions specified in rule 4 of the General Grading and 
Marking Rules, 1937, the conditions set out in Schedule III to these rules shall be 
the conditions of any certificate of authorisation issued for the purposes of these 
rules. 


Schedule I 

Grade Designation and definition of quality of Indian Wool 


C. 


Grade 

desig- 

nation 

Colour 

of 

fibre 

Special characteristics 


Tolerance limit for colour Yeild percent of wool 

istics. 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

W 

White 

Shall not contain more 
than 5% of creamy or ting- 
ed white fibres and not 
more than 1% of other col- 
oured wool. 

1 

1 

1 

All grades shall be 
free from burrs, thorns 
sticks ginned wool, 
limed wool, fibres other 
than wool & other 
extraneous matters ex- 
cept a few unavoidable- 

c. w. 

or 

T.W. 

Creamy 
White or 
Tinged 
White 

Shall not contain more than 
10% of pale yellow fibres 
and not more than 1% of | 
other coloured wool. 

1 (a) Over 75% 

I (b) Over 80% 

(c) Over 85% 

J 

No wool having yield 
less than what has been 
prescribed under Col- 
umn 4 will be allowed, 
to be exported. 

P.Y. 

Pale 

Yellow 

Shall not contain morel 
than 15% of yellow fibres 
and not more than 1% of j 
coloured wool. 

(a) Over 72 4% 

(b) Over 80% 

(c) Over 85% 

Do. 

Y. 

Yellow 

May contain deep yellow 1 
fibres but shall not contain 




more than 1% 
wool. 


of coloured 


Coloured May contain fibres of any - ) (a) Over 65% 
r y(b) Over 70% 

.) W Over 75% 


Wool 


colour. 


Do. 


Schedule II 

Grade designation and definition of quality of Indian Ginned Wool 


Grade designation 

Yield percentage of ginned 
wool 

General characteristics 

White & Creamy White 

Over 75% 

All grades shall be free 
from burrs, thorns, sticks 
fibres other than wool, 
and other extraneous mat- 
ter except a few unavoid- 
ables. 

Pale Yellow & Yellow 

Over 72% 

Do. 

Coloured Wool 

Over 65% 

Do. 


N.b. — Ginned Wool shall be marked as “ Ginned Woo ” 







1590 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


Schedule III 
(See Rule 4) 

The grade designation mark to be applied to bales of wool shall contain the 
following design: — 



[No. F.5-84-Dte.IIJ 
S. K. RAO, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 9th June 1954 
S.R.O. 1969. — The Central Government hereby: — 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provision of clause (2) of the Order of 

Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S.R.O. 781, dated the 1st March, 1954 and in modification of the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting S.R.O, 782 , dated the 1st March, 1954, that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Madras shall consist 
of 21 members with effect from 12th June, 1954. 

(b) appoints, after consultation with the said Board, Sri M. P. Periasami 

Thooran, Sri S. Nataraian, Sri P. Ramachandran, Sri M. N. Kapur, 
and Srimati Rajan Nehru, as members of the Advisory Panel at 
Madras 'with effect from 12th June, 1954. 


[No. 9/4/53-F.C-] 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1591 


New Delhi, the 14th June 1954 

S.R.O, 1970. — In exercise of the powers coferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 3 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951 read with section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Karl 
J, Kbandalawala as a member of the Central Board of Film Censors with effect 
from the 19th June, 1954 vice Dr. P. Parija resigned. 

[No. 11/1/54-F.C.] 
D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 8th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1971. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (v) of clause 
(c) of section 2 of the Delhi Joint water and Sewage Board Act, 1920, (XXIII of 
1926), the Central Government hereby declares the “Municipal Committee for 
Southern Zone of Delhi” as constituted by the Chief Commissioner, Delhi in his 
notification No. F. 11 (40) /53-LSG., dated the 5th August, 1953 to be a “constituent 
body” for the purposes of the said Act. 

[No. 906-LSG/54.] 
A. V. VENKATASUBBAN, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi , the 11th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1972. — 1. for the words “Lt.-Colonel A. N. Chopra” occurring in the 
Ministry of Health Notification No. F. 5-13/53-MI, dated the 15th May, 1954, the 
words “Lt. -Colonel (Honorary Colonel), A. N. Chopra” should be substituted. 

***** * 

2. In the Ministry of Health Corrigendum No. F.6-14/53-MI(B), dated the 13th 
January, 1954 for the words “Colonel A. N. Chopra”, the words “Lt.-Colonel 
(Honorary Colonel) A. N. Chopra” should be substituted. 

[No. F. 5-13/53-M.I.] 
BABU RAM, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12 th June 1054 

S.R.Cf. 1973. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Drugs 
Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940), the Central Government, after consultation with the 
Drugs Technical Advisory Board, hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ment shall be made in the Drugs Rules, 1945, the same having been previously 
published as required by the said section, namely: — 

In rule 71 of the said Rules, after the words “licensing authority is satisfied 
that”, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“arrangements have been made for the provision and maintenance of an 
adequate staff and of adequate premises and plant for the proper 
manufacture, standardisation and storage of the substances in respect 
of which the licence is to be issued and that”. 


[No. F.1-7/52-DS.J 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 9th June 1954 

S.RO. 1974.— In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Rehabilitation Wo. S.R.O, 1673, dated the 21st May, 1954 and published in the 
Gazette of India Extraordinary of that date — 

(a) in sub-rule (3) of rule 14, as substituted by clause (b), for ‘occupation 
or’, read ‘occupation of'. 



1592 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


(b) in sub-rule (7) of rule 15, as 
‘property’ insert ‘and’. 


substituted by clause (c) (ii) after 
[No. 16(1) /54-Prop. I.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24 th May 1954 

S.R.O. 1975. — In exercise of the power conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Sectiuii 
19 of the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1961, (LXIV of 1951), the Central 
Government hereby orders that all cases in respect of composite properties situated 
in the districts of Jabalpur, Sagar, Mandla, Chhindwara, Bllaspur Surguja and 
Raigarh, pending before Shri R. S. Agarwala, Competent Officer, Jabalpur, shall 
stand transferred to Shri G. Y. Deo, Competent Officer with headquarters at 
Nagpur. 


[No. 52(82)/53-Prop.] 
L. B. MATHUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(Posts & Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 10th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1976. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act, 1898 (VI of 1898), the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made In the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely: — 

In Sub-rule (1) of rule 64 of the said Rules, after the words “a form of 
acknowledgment which shall be signed”, the words “in ink” shall be inserted; 
and for the words “to sign” in both the places where they occur, the words “to so 
.sign” shall be substituted. 

[No. C. 11-6/54.] 

S.R.O. 1977. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act, 1898 (VI of 1898), the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely; — 

In Sub-rule (i) of rule 61 of the said Rules, after the second sentence, the 
following sentence shall be Inserted, namely: — 

“No such article shall also be accepted for registration — 

(a) where it contains words to the effect that it has been or is intended 
to be, insured for any specific sum, 

or that it may contain valuable contents, unless it is also to be insured, or (b) 
where such words are scored out”. 


[No. C. 7-5/53.] 


New Delhi, the 11 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1978. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office'Act 
189B (VI of 1898), the Central Government, hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely;. 

For rule 14 of the said rules the following rule shall be substituted, namely: 

“14. Should any of the conditions imposed by rules 11, 12 and 13 be infringed, 
the postcard shall be treated as a letter and the amount of postage 
prepaid on a single postcard or on the first half only of a reply post- 
card shall be taken into account in assessing the postage" to be 
charged on delivery". 


[No. C.40-4Q/53.] 
V. M. BHIDE, Dy. Secy. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1593 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi , the 11th. June 1954 

S.R.O. 1979. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (IX of 1890), read with the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry, No. 801, dated the 
24th March, 1905, the Railway Board hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made in the General Rules for all Open lines of Railways 
in India, published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Railway Department (Railway Board) No. 1078-T, dated the 9th March, 1929, 
namely:. — 

In the Schedule appended to Part III of the said rules, in column 3, against 
Serial No. 22, after regulation (i), the following shall be inserted, namely:™ 

“Bromine may also be carried in Lead lined steel drums conforming to 
specification No. ICC-5H provided not less than 10 per cent, air space 
is left in each drum,” 

[No. 1387-TG.] 
RANJIT SINGH, 

Director, Traffic (Transportation). 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 19 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1980. — The following appearing in Rule 13(e) of the Ministry of Rail- 
ways (Railway Board) Notifications E54RR4, E54RR7-1, E54RR6 and E54RR2-1, 
dated the 15th May 1954, published in Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India, 
dated 29th May, 1954, under S.R.O, 1775, 1776, 1777 and 1778, dated the 15th May 
1954 respectively, is deleted, the subsequent clause (f) being renumbered as (e) 
in the case of the Notifications E54RR4, E54RR7-1 and E54RR6. 

“Passed the final grade examination in Electrical Engineering Practice 
(Parts I and II) — (Examination No. 52) of the City and Guilds, 
London, if taken on or before 24th November 1949; or’ 

[No. E54RR2-1.] 

V. T. NARAYANAN, 
Joint Director, Establishment. 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

New Delhi, the 19 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1981. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 4 of the Colliery 
Control Order, 1945, as continued in force by section 17 of the Essential Supplies 
(Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 (XXIV of 1946), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Production No. 4.CI(2)/51, dated the 
26th August, 1952, namely: — 

In the said notification, in the table under “Schedule of prices” the entry “Shale 
Coal” and the price per ton shown against the entry, occurring in each of item 
I. “Singareni Group of Collieries (except Yellendu)” and item II. “Yellendu 
Colliery” shall be omitted. 

[No. 4-CI(8)/53.] 
A, NANU, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 9th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1982, — In this Ministry’s Notification No. S.R.O, 1027, dated the 11th 
March, 1954, published in Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 

* , 


dated the 29th March, 1954, for the letters and words “O. V. A. Hydross & Son” 
read “C. V. A. Hydross & Son”. 

[No. LR.2(345).] 


New Delhi, the 10 th June 1954 

S.R.O. 1983. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Madurai, in the Matter of applications under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Abdul Khader and others, stevedore workmen in Cochin 
Port: — 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADURAI 

Saturday, ist May, 1954 


Present Sri . R. Krishnamurthi, M.A., B.L., Industrial Tribunal at Madurai. 


Industrial Disputes Nos. 83 to 126 (Central )! 53 
& 


Industrial Disputes Nos. 244 to 25Z (Central )! 53 
Between 


Abdul Khader, Stevedore Worker 


Chellaikadu Ummer Do. 

Aboobuckcr Mohamcd Do. 

Moideen Mohamed Do. 

Xavier Anthony Do. 

Bcerain Ismal Do. 

Yoosuf Kunhamed Do. 

Ouseph Manual Do. 

Becran Bava Do. 

Kunhamarakkcr Kader Do. 

Abdul Rahiman Koya Do. 

George Thomas Do. 

K. M. Sulaiman Do. 

P. S. Mohamed Do. 

K. Sadasivan Do. 

M. Moideen Do. 

Aidru Abdul Khader Do. 

T. Bhaskaran Do. 

M. H. Mohamed Do. 

Mohamed Ali Abdu Do. 

Ammu Abdu Do. 

V. A. Amman Do. 

Augustine Devassy Do. 

Pareed Ibrahim Do. 

Aidru Kunhalan Do. 

Kunhamed Beerankutty Do. 

N. K. Bavoo Do. 

Abdu Hameed Do. 

Paily Philip Do. 

K- R- Bavu Do. 

Joseph Benjamin Do. 

T. A. Kunhamohamed Do. 

Vareed Ousphutty Do. 

John Peter Do. 

Achambi Joseph Do. 

Moosa Mammu Do. 

A. Kussim Do. 

P. B. Moideen Do. ■ 

T. M, Alikutti Do. 

Kochangady Mamma Do. 

V. K. Ibrahim Do. 

K. A. Abdurahiman Do. 

A. K. Abdul Gaffoor Do. 

Uthiyarood Kurija Do. 

Mustafa Koya Do. 

Isaac Pathrose Do. 


(I. D. No. 83(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 84(0/53) 
(I. D, No. 85(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 86(0/53) 
(I. D, No. 87(0/53) 
(I, D. No. 88(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 89(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 90(0/53) 
Cl. D. No. 91(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 92(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 93(0/53) 
(I. D, No. 94(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 95(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 96(0/531 
(I. D. Nff. 97(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 98(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 99(0(53) 
(I. D. No. ioo(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. ioi(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. io2(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. io 3(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. 104(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 105(C)/ 5 ”) 
(I. D. No. I06(C )I 5 3 ' 
(I. D. No. 107(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 108(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 109(0/53) 
(I. D. No. iio(C)/53) 
(I. D. No, iii(C)/53 
(I. D, No. ii2(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. 113(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 114(0/53) 
(I. D. No. ii5(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. ii6(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. 117(0/53) 
I. D. No. ii8(C)/53) 
(I. D. No. 119(0/53) 
T. D. No. i20(C)/53) 
[I. D, No. 121(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 122(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 123(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 124(0/53) 
I. D. No. 125(0/53) 

I. D. No. 126(0/53) 
I. D, No. 244(C)/53) 
(I- D. No. 245(0/53) 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1595 


Kunhamed Moidcen Stevcdor; WorkeifT. 1). No. 246(0/53) 


Mahomed Kassim Do. 

Mannu Abdul Khadcr Do. 

V. A. Mammo Do. 

Mainkutty Mommcd Do. 

Bavanny Ayammu Do. 

Mohamed Kutty Saidali Do 


D. No. 247(0/53, 
I. D. No. 248(0/53 
.1, D. No. 249(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 250(0/53) 
(I. D, No. 251(0/53) 
(I. D. No. 252(0/53) 

Petitioners 


AND 

Management, Malabar Spices and Company, Cochin 


Respondents. 


AWARD 

By G.O,H.R.2(345>I dated 13th October 1952, the Government o£ India, Ministry 
of Labour, New Delhi, referred to me for adjudication the dispute between certain 
employers at Port Cochin, and workers working in the Port, 

2. The allegations in the several petitions are practically Identical and they 
are to the effect, that the opposite party has contravened section 33 -A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, that the petitioners are stevedore workers and members of 
the Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union, that the respondent is a party to the 
adjudication, that an interim award was passed and Implemented from 2nd Feb- 
ruary 1962, that on 19th April 1953, the respondent employed new workers deny- 
ing employment to the several applicants who are regular stevedore workers jn 
contravention of the existing practice and in violation of the terms of the award, 
and that the opposite party should be directed to reinstate the discharged work- 
men and to compensate them for the loss sustained by them. 

3. Common written statements have been filed by the opposite party and res- 
pondent, and it is alleged therein, that the workmen recruited to do stevedoring 
work are regular stevedore workers of the Port, that the terms of the interim 
award have been complied with, that stevedore labourers are casual workmen 
employed on a day-to-day basis seeking employment under more than one employer, 
that no question of reinstatement arises, that the petitioners were at no time work- 
men under the opposite party and that they are not entitled to any relief. 

4 The issues that arise for determination are: — - 

1. Whether the several petitioners were at any time stevedore workmen 

under the opposite party? 

2. Whether there is a contravention of Section 33-A of the Industrial Dis- 

putes Act? 

3. To what relief including reinstatement and or compensation are the several 

petitioners entitled? 

5. Issues Nos. 1 and 2 . — These several petitions have been tried together at the 
request of parties and common evidence has been adduced in I.D. No. 83 (Central? 
of 1953 and the said evidence has been treated as evidence in the rest of the peti- 
tions. Vide Joint memo. Ex, W, 15. 

6. These several petitions have been filed by the respective petitioners alleg- 
ing, that the opposite party Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company, contravened 
Section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act pending adjudication of the main dis- 
pute I.D. No. 18 (Central) of 1951 in which a reference was made concerning the 
dispute between the Cochin Port Stevedores and workers working in the Port. 

7. The contention on behalf of the several petitioners is. that Messrs. Malabar 
Spices and Company, as agonts for the Steamship Company, Bharath Lines, have 
been carrying on stevedoring work through their agents and representatives M/s. 
Sorabji and Company, who themselves are parties to the proceedings as Employer 
No. 11. The contention of Mr, Raghavan on behalf of the several petitioners is, 
that they were employees of the opposite party, that they were unlawfully thrown 
out of service on 19th April 1953, in contravention of the existing practice and the 
terms of interim award (to which I shall refer later) and that they are entitled 
to reinstatement together with compensation for forced unemployment. 

8, In the first place, it falls to be decided whether the several petitioners were 
stevedore workmen of the opposite party. The evidence of W.W. 1 Booravu 
Ismail is, (hat he was working as a stevedore worker with Malabar Spices and 
Company and that Sorabji and Company were the Stevedores. He was working 
as an ordinary worker for about 6 or 7 years prior to the date of the petition. 



1596 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Part II — Sec. 9 


Lika him about 50 or 00 -persons were working. He was denied work from 19th 
April 1953. Likewise the other petitioners were not given work from 19th April 
1953. New men were employed and these never worked on any day prior to 19th 
April 1953 as stevedore workmen. Mr. Raghavan, the Secretary of the Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union deposes as W.W.2, that Messrs. Sorabji and Com- 
pany were the stevedores for Malabar Spices and Company. Till 1954-1953 all the 
petitioners were working as the stevedore workmen of Messrs. Sorabji and Com- 
pany and Malabar Spices and Company. The latter were agents for Bharath Line 
Steamers. 

9. I shall next refer to the documents that have been filed on behalf of the 

petitioners. Ex. W. 1 is a letter, dated 19th April. 1953, addressed by the Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union to the Malabar Spices and Company, and It is 
stated therein, that stevedore work was going to be taken away from the hands 
of M/s. Sorabji and Company, and that the Malabar Spicos and Company should 
consult the Union before effecting any change in the work or working conditions 
in the port. Ex. W. 2, dated 21st April 1953, is a letter sent to the Administrative 
Officer on behalf of the Union to the effect that M/s. Malabar Spices and 
Company took away the stevedoring contract from M/s. Sorabji and Company and 
entrusted it to some other new stevedores, that new men have been hired to defeat 

the usual labourers of the port, that this amounts to violation of the terms and 

conditions of the award, and that an order should be issued directing resumption, 
of the existing practice. In Ex. W. 3, dated 24th April 1953, the Union stated, 
that on 20th April 1953 one of the employers Messrs, Malabar Spices and 

Company deviated from the existing practice and denied employment to the 

regular stevedore workers and employed other men. Ex, W, 4, dated 24th April 
1953 is addressed to the Steamer Agents Committee, and it was reported therein,, 
that Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company representing the Bharath Steamer Lines, 
had deviated from the existing practice of employing workmen and that they had 
employed fresh and new men instead. In Ex, W. 5 a letter, dated 22nd April 
1953 addressed to the Conciliation Officer, it is alleged, that since the date of the 
reference to adjudication, the stevedore workers were grouped into 78 gangs,, 
that these gangs were employed on rotation by the employers through their agents, 
Messrs. Sorabj'i and Company and that this practice was in vogue for the past 
1$ years. Ex, W. 0 is a reply sent on behalf of the Regional Labour Commis- 
sioner intimating the union that if section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act had 
been violated suitable action may be taken under section 33-A of the Act. 

10. Next, reference may be made to Ex. W. 7 to Ex. W. 13, and these show 
that Messrs, Sorabji and Company were carrying on stevedoring work on behalf of 
the Bharath Lines. Ex. s. W. 8, W. 9 and W. 10 and W. 12 are the communications, 
that passed with reference to an accident sustained by one of the workmen while 
workmg on board “S. S. Bharathsena”. These letters have been relied upon for 
purpose of proving that Messrs. Sorabji and Company were actually carrying on 
stevedoring work, 

11. The petitioners’ case as set out in paragraph 3 of the several petitions is, 
that Malabar Spices and Company as the agents of the Bharath Steamship Lines,, 
were carrying on stevedoring work through their agents and representatives 
Messrs. Sorabji and Company, who themselves were a party to the reference as 
employer No. 11. Thus, it is sought to be made out that the stevedoring work was- 
actually being done by the opposite party Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company. 
It is argued by Mr. Raghavan, that Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company are the: 
mere successors of Messrs. Sorabji and Co., in the matter of stevedoring work, 
and that therefore they are bound in the same way as Messrs. Sorabji and Company 
in the matter of employment of the several petitioners who worked as the steve- 
dore workmen of Messrs. Sorabji and Company prior to 19th April 1953. 

12. The above position is, however, controverted on behalf of the respondents, 
and it if denied, that the petitioners were ever employed by them. The evidence 
of Mr. C. P. Ramachandra Menon who is a clerk in the Malabar Spices and 
Company is, that the Malabar Spices took over the stevedoring work of the 
Bharath Lines in April 1953. The Steamship Company itself gave them the 
stevedoring work. Before this, M/s. Sorabji and Company were doing stevedoring 
work with Bharath Lines and were having direct contract with the steamship- 
Company. The Bharath Lines put an end to the stevedoring contract of Sorabji 
and Company, and gave the contract independently to M/s. Malabar Spices and 
Company. The latter did not take over from Sorabji’s at all, but were appointed 
Independently as stevedore contractors, direct by the Steamship Company. M.W. 1, 
further says, that at the time they were appointed stevedoring contractors they- 
did not know who were the workers working for Messrs. Sorabji and Company 



Part II — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA* JUNE 19, 1954 1597 


M.W. 1, makes it clear, that his company took up the stevedoring work of the 
Bharath Lines on 24th April 1953, Since then, his company has been employing 
only experienced stevedore workmen working in the Port, His company 
obtained a license from the port for doing stevedoring work after introduction 
of the new rules requiring licensing. M.W. 2 is one of the workers, working as 
stevedore worker in Malabar Spices and Company. His evidence proves, that 
he is an experienced stevedore worker working in the port from some time prior 
to April 1953. Exs. M. 1 to M. 3, have been filed to sustain this contention. It 
is made clear in his evidence, that he was formerly a member of the Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union. 

13. From the evidence, it is perfectly clear, that the contention on behalf of 
the petitioners, that they were employees and stevedore workmen of Messrs. 
Malabar Spices and Company prior to 20th April 1953 has not been established. 
On the contrary, the evidence shows, that at best they worked for Messrs. Sorabji 
and Company. The Malabar Spices and Company are not the successors in 
interest of Messrs. Sorabji and Company. No doubt, the former might have 
been the steamer agents of Messrs. Bharath Lines, but they had nothing to do 
with the stevedoring work, that was being carried on by Messrs. Sorabji and 
Company. The latter were doing stevedoring work not as agents of Malabar 
Spices, but directly as stevedores contractors for Messrs. Bharath Lines. The- 
shipping Company put an end to the contract of Messrs. Sorabji and Company 
and entered into "an independent contract with Malabar Spices and Company in 
the matter of stevedoring work. In the above circumstances, the case for the 
petitioners, that Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company were the stevedore con- 
tractors who got their work done through Messrs. Sorabji and Company and that 
therefore the petitioners can seek relief ugainst Messrs. Malabar Spices and 
Company cannot be sustained. 

14. The petitioners were not the workmen of Malabar Spices and Company at. 
any time prior to 19th April 1953. At best they were employees of only Sorabji 
and. Company. The petitioners cannot have any relief, if the new stevedore con- 
tractors, the Malabar Spices and Company employed such hands as they wanted 
after they were employed as stevedore contractors independently by the steam- 
ship Company. They came on the scene as stevedoring contractors only subse- 
quent to 20th April 1953, I find, that the petitioners were not the employees or 
workmen of the opposite party at any time. In this view, it is clear, that they 
are not entitled to any relief against Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company. 

15. In the second place, the petitioners contend, that a change was brought 
about in the conditions of their service, because the interim award was violated, 
and because the opposite party engaged new workers and denied work to the 
petitioners in contravention of the existing practice. The interim award referred 
to in the petitions, is dated 18th December 1951, and it appears to have been 
published in February 1952. It is alleged, in the several petitions, that the award 
was being implemented from 2nd February 1952, with the consent of all the 
employers. Since the date of implementation of the said award, the stevedore 
workers were grouped into 78 gangs each gang consisting of 18 men. From 19th 
April 1953 in violation of the terms of the award Malabar Spices and Company 
employed new men. fphus the second contention is, that the opposite party has 
violated the terms of the interim award, and that therefore there is a contravention 
of Section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act. This contention also cannot be 
sustained. It cannot be held, that Malabar Spices were a party to the interim 
award referred to above. M/s. Sorabji and Company were party to the award 
and they are shown as employer No. 11 in Schedule I of the reference, dated 
19th July 1951. M/s. Malabar Spices and Company are shown as one of the 
employers in the reference, dated 8 th November 1952, and in the said reference 
No. 115 is Malabar Spices and Company. The latter are not signatories to the 
compromise, and are not parties to the award which was passed in terms of the 
compromise. I have found above, that Messrs. Malabar Spices and Company 
are not the successors in interest of M/s. Sorabji and Company and are not bound 
by the interim award. The contention on behalf of the petitioners that the 
opposite party has contravened the terms of the award, and that therefore there 
is a contravention of Section 33 cannot be sustained. They cannot be held to 
be guilty of the non-implementation of the terms of an award to which they are 
not parties. 

16. Again, Section 33-A contemplates a change in the conditions of service 
existing at the time of the reference. The petitioners case mainly relates to the 
fact that there has been a contravention of the terms of the interim award that 
was passed by consent of parties. The interim award was subsequent to the date 



1598 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


of the reference on 19th June 1951. There is no satisfactory evidence about the 
practice that existed prior to 19th July 1951. I fail to see how the Malabar 
.Spices and Company who took over the stevedoring work of Bharath Lines from 
about 20th April 1953 and who are made parties only to the second reference, 
can bo held to be guilty of a breach of the conditions that existed prior to 19th 
July 1951, the date of the first reference. 

17. Looking at the matter from any point of view, it is not possible to hold, 
that the opposite party has contravened Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
1 find, that the petitioners were not stevedore workmen of the opposite party as 
alleged by them from prior to 19th April 1953 or at any other time and that there 
is no contravention of Section 33- of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

18. Issue No. 3. — In view of my finding as above, the petitioners are not entitled 
to any kind of compensation or other relief. 

19. In the result all the several petitions are dismissed. There will be no order 
as to costs. 

20. An award is passed accordingly. ' 

(Sd.) E. KRisHNAMuimn, 
Industrial Tribunal at Madurai. 

List of Witnesses Examined 

.For the Petitioners:— 

W.W. 1 — Biravu Ismail. 

W.W. 2— M. K. Raghavan. 

For the Respondents: — 

M.W. 1 — C. P. Ramachandra Menon. 

M.W 2— Adam Khader. 


List of Documents marked 

For the Petitioners: — 

Ex. W. 1 — Letter dated 19th April 1953, from the Secretary, Cochin Thura- 
mukha Thozhilali Union to the manager, Malabar Spices and Company, 
Mattancherry. 

Ex. W. 2 — Letter dated 21st April 1953, from the Secretary, Cochin Thura- 
mukha Thozhilali Union to the Administrative Officer, Willingdon 
Island. c 

Ex. W. 3 — Letter dated 24th April 1953 from the Secretary, Cochin Thura- 
mukha Thozhilali Union, Cochin, to the Administrative Officer, Cochin 
Port. 

Ex. W. 4 — Letter dated 24th April 1953, from the Secretary, Cochin Thura- 
mukha Thozhilali Union, Cochin, to the Convenor, The Steamer 
Agents Committee, Cochin. 

Ex. W. 5 — Letter dated 22nd April 1953 from the Secretary, Cochin Thura- 
mukha Thozhilali Union, Cochin, to the Conciliation Officer (Central) 
Ernakulam. 

Ex. W. 6 — Letter No. L. Dis 253/53, dated 1st May 1953 of the Regional 
Labour Commissioner, Central, Madras, to the Secretary, Cochin, 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union, Cochin, 

Ex. W. 7— Letter dated 24th January 1953 from M/s. Sorabii and Company, 

Cochin, to the Secretary, Cochin Thuramukha Tnozhilali Union, 

Cochin. 

Ex. W. 8 — Letter dated 6th September 1952 from M/s. Sorabji and Company, 
Cochin, to the Secretary, Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union, 

Cochin. 

Ex. W. 9— Letter dated 2nd August 1952 from M/s. Sorabji and Company, 
Cochin, to the President, Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union, 

Cochin. 

Ex. W..10 — Letter dated 9th August 1952 from President, Cochin Thura- 
mukha Thozhilali Union, Cochin, to M/s, Sotabji and Company, 
Mattancherry. 

Ex. W. 11— Letter dated 9th September 1952 from the President, Cochin 
Thuramukha Thozhilali Union, Cochin, to M/s. Sorabji and Company, 
Mattancherry. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1599 


Ex. W. 12 — Receipt dated 2nd August 1952 given by M/s. Sorabji and 
Company, Mattaneherry. 

Ex. W, 13 — Receipt dated 2nd August 195? given by Messrs. Sorabji and 
Company, Matl anchenry. 

Ex. W. 14 — Order dated 28th January 1954 of the High Court ol Judicature, 
Travancore Cochin State, Ernakulam in O.P. No, 106 of 1953 (certified 
copy) . 

Ex. W. 15 — Memo, dated 22nd February 1954 filed by Sri M. K. Raghavan, 
President, Cochin Thuramukha Thozhilali Union, before the Industrial 
Tribunuai at Madurai. 


Ex. W. 16 — Petition of the workers dated 16th August 1952 to the 
Secretary, Cochin Thuramukah Thozhilali Union, Mattaneherry. 
For the Respondents: — 

Ex. M. 1 — Chit No. 1646 Riven by the Secretary, Cochin Thuramukha 
Thozhilali Union, Mattaneherry, Cochin, 

Ex. M, 2 — Chit containing particulars regarding date of registration and 
No. of registration of worker Adam Khader. 

Ex. M. 3 — Certificate No. 492, dated 30th April 1953 given by the Secretary, 
Cochin Stevedores Association, Cochin, to worker Adam Khader. 

[No. LR.2(345).] 


E. Keishnamurthi, 
Industrial Tribunal, Madurai. 


New Delhi , the 11th June 1954 

S.R.O, 1983. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 243 of the Constitution of 
India, the President hereby directs that with effect from the 1st July 1954, the 
Administrator, Chandernagore, shall, subject to the control of the President and 
until further orders, exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the Central 
Government under the Indian Trade Unions Act, 1926 (XVI of 1926), in relation 
to trade unions whose objects are not confined to, and whose head office is situated, 
in Chandernagore. 

[No. LR-1 (10) /54.] 
P. S. EASWARAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 14th Jvjie 1954 

S.R.O. 1984 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952), the Central Government hereby directs 
that the power exercisable by it under section 8 of the said Act to recover as an 
arrear of land revenue any amount due from employer in relation to a factory 
engaged in an industry in respect of which the appropriate Government is the 
Central Government on account of any contribution payable under the said Act 
or towards the cost of administering the provident fund payable by such employer 
under any scheme framed thereunder, shall also he exercisable within its 
jurisdiction by the Government of Madhya Bharat. 

[No. CPF.516(55)/B/V.] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Under Secy. 

REGISTRAR JOINT STOCK COMPANIES 

NOTICE 

Shillong, the 27th April 1954 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and in the matter of the 
Chitrawali Pictures Ltd., of Tezpur 

S.R.O, 1985 . — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247(3) of the Indian 
Companies Act, 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date of this 
notice, the name of the Chitrawali Pictures Ltd., will, unless cause is shown to 
the contrary, be struck oil the register and the company will be dissolved on the 
ground that it is not carrying on any business or is not in operation. 

[No. 618-20-J.S.] 
P. BORA, 

Asstt. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Assam. 



i6oo 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


Madras , the 8th May 1954 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The Observer Limited 
Pursuant to Section 247 (3) 


S.R.O. 1986, — Whereas the company in its letters, dated 21st February 1054, 
2nd April, 1954 and nil received on 5th May 1954, requested me to treat the 
company as defunct and remove its name from the register of companies. 

And whereas it appears accordingly that The Observer Limited is not carrying 
on business or is not m operation; 


Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247(3) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 that unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three 
months from the date of this notice the name of the said company will be struck 
off the register and the said company dissolved. 


[No. K.889/54.] 


Madras , the 29th May 1954 

In the matter of Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The Andhra Agencies Limited 


Notice pursuant to Section 247(5) 


S.R.O. 1987, — With reference to the notice dated 11th February, 1954 
published on page 430 of Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated 
27th February 1954 the above company not having shown cause to the contrary 
within the time fixed, the name of the company has under section 247(5) of 
the Indian Companies Act, 1913 been struck off the register. 

[No. K.2615/53.] 
V. V. RANGANATHAN, 
Assistant Registrar of 
Joint Stock Companies, Madras. 


Tellicherry, the 30 th May 1954 

In the matter of Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The Navabharatha Mills Limited 

Pursuant to Section 247(3) 

S.R.O. 1988. — Whereas the communications adrlressed to the Company at 
its registered office remain unanswered. 

And whereas it appears accordingly that The Navabharatha Mills Limited is , 
not carrying on business or in operation. 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247(3) of the Indian Companies 
Act, 1913 that unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of 
three months from the date of this notice the name of the said company will be 
struck off the register and the said company will be dissolved. 

[No. 483-K.] 
K. K. RAMAN, 

for Assistant Registrar of 
Joint Stock Companies, Tellicherry. 


Coimbatore, the 5th June 1954 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and C. R. V. Chari and Co., 

Limited 

Notice Pursuant to Section 247(5) 

S.R.O. 1989, — With reference to the notice, dated 4th February 1954 published 
on page 405 Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated 20th February 1954 
the above company not having shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed, 
the name of the company has, under Section 247(5) of the Indian Companies Act, 
1013, been struck off the register. 


[No. 2261-K.] 



Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


1601 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and Presidency Printers Limited 
Notice Pursuant to Section 247(5) 

S.R.O. 1990. — With reference to the notice, dated 9th February 1954 published 
on page 408 Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated 20th February 1954 the 
above company not having shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed, the 
name of the company has, under Section 247(5) of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, 
been struck off the register. 

[No, 4347-K.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The Asoka Traders Limited 
Notice Pursuant to Section 247(5) 

S.R.O. 1991. — With reference to the notice, dated 4th February 1954 published 
on page 405 Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated 20th February 1954 the 
above company not having shown cause to the contrary within the time fixed, 
the name of the company has, under Section 247(5) of the Indian Companies Act, 
1913, been struck off the register, 

[No. 2426-K.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The New Indian Traders 

(Coimbatore) Limited 

Notice Pursuant to Section 247(5) 

S.R.O. 1992. — With reference to the notice, dated 4th February 1954 published 
on pages 405 and 406 Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated 20th February 
1954, the above company not having shown cause to the contrary within the 
time fixed, the name of the company has, under Section 247(5) of the Indian 
Companies Act, 1913, been struck off the register. 

[No. 2701-K.] 
R. SRINIVASAN, 

Asstt. Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Coimbatore. 


Trivandrum, the 7th June 1954 
NOTICE 

Indian Companies Act, Act VII of 1913 
Pursuant to Section 247 (3) 


S.R.O. 1993. — Whereas from the fact that communications addressed to the 
Companies noted below at their Registered offices remain unanswered, it appears 
that the companies are neither carrying on business nor are in operation, it is 
hereby notified under sub-section 3 of section 247 of the Indian Companies Act, 
VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date of this notice 
the companies will, unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the 
register and the said companies wilt be dissolved. 

1. Engineering Supplies Ltd., Trivandrum. 

2. Malabar Production Ltd., Alwaye. 

3. The Development Trust Ltd,, Kottayam. 

4. The Bharat Enterprise Ltd. 

5. Rajama and Company Ltd., Kottayam. 


[No. L-1290/54.] 
P. J. VERGHESE, 

Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Trivandrum. 


Jaipur, the 9th June 1954 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Marwar 
Traders Ltd., Sambhar Lake 

S.R.O. 1994. — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian Com- 
panies Act, VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date hereof 
the name of the Marwar Traders Limited, Sambhar Lake, will, unless cause is 



1602 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 I Part II— Sec. 3 


shown to the contrary be struck off the register and the said company will be 
dissolved, 

[No. 4/Sab./921/J.S.C.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Jai Hind Mining 

Corporation Ltd., Bhilwara. 

S.R.O. 1995. — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act, VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of Messrs, Jai Hind Mining Corporation Ltd,, Bhilwara, will, unless 
cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the register and the said company 
will be dissolved. 

[No, 918/J.S.C.] 

R, P. BHARGAVA, Registrar. 
Joint Stock Companies, Rajasthan, Jaipur. 


Bombay, the 11th June 1954 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Navhind 

Pictures Limited 

S.R.O. 1996. — Notice ia hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act, VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the Navhind Pictures Limited will, unless cause is shown to 
the contrary, be struck off the register and the said company will be dissolved. 

[No. 5629.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Property 
Improvement and Exchange Company Limited 

S.R.O. 1997. — 'Notice is hereby given pursuant to Sub-section (5) of the Section 
247 of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913, that the name of the Pronerty 
Improvement and Exchange Company Limited has this day been struck off the 
register and the said company is hereby dissolved. 

[No. 3206.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the L. D. Seymour 

(Laboratories) Ltd. 

S.R.O. 1998. —Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of tho Indian 
Companies Act, VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the L. D, Seymour (Laboratories) Limited will, unless cause is 
shown to tho contrary, be struck off the register and tho said company will be 
dissolved. 


[No, 8561.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Upadhya & Co. 

Ltd. 

S.R.O. 19.99. — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act, VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the Upadhya & Co. Limited will, unless cause is shown to the 
contrary, be struck off the register and the said company will be dissolved. 

[No. 8557.] 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and the Druck Farben 

Limited 

S.R.O. 2000, — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 172(2) of the Indian 
Companies Act of 1913, that the Druck Farben Limited has been ordered to he 
wound up by an order' of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, dated 28th 
March 1952 and that the Court Liquidator has been appointed official Liquidator 
of the company. 


[No. 7044.] 

T. J. GONDHALEKAR, 
Registrar of Companies, Bombay. 



Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1603 


Hyderabad, the 12th June, 1954 

In the matter of section 247(4) of Indiun Companies Act and in the matter of 

Dcccan Oil Mills Limited 

S.R.O. 2001. — Whereas it is believed that no liquidator is acting to wind up tho 
affairs of the “Deccan Oil Mills Company Limited 1 ’ 1183, Maklod Guda Secundera- 
bad, notice is hereby given under Sub-Section (4) of Section 247 of 
Indian Companies Act, that at the expiration of three months from the date of this 
notice the name of the above company will, unless cause is shown to the contrary, 
be struck off the register and the Company will be dissolved. 

[No. 1750.] 
M. A. RASHEED, 

Registrar Inchargc, Joint Stock Companies, Hyderabad. 


Tiruchirappalli, the 7th June, 1954 
Notice pursuant to Section 247(3) 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and The Radio Television 

Limited, Trichinopoly. 

S.K.O. 2002. — Whereas communications addressed to the abovenamed company 
at its registered office are returned undelivered by Post Office: 

And whereas it appears according to the letter, dated 8th February 1954 of the 
directors of the said company that tho abovenamed company is not carrying on 
business and is not in operation. 

Notice is hereby given, pursuant to section 247(3) of the Indian Companies Act, 
1913, that, unless cause is shown to the contrary before the expiration of three 
months from the date of this notice, the name of the said company will be struck 
off the register and the said company will be dissolved. 


[No. 218/54-K.] 

S. ALAGIRISAMI CHETTIYAR, 
Assistant Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, Tiruchirappalli. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 7th June, 1954 

S.R.O. 2003.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and, In relation to persons serving m the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
also by clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, read with articles 313 and 372 
thereof and paragraph 19 of the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1930, tho President, 
after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General as regards the per- 
sons referred to above, hereby directs that the following further amendment shall 
he made in the Fundamental Rules, namely: — 

In clause (c) of rule 26 of the said Rules — 

(a) after the words “if he is reappointed to the lower post", the words 

“or is appointed or reappointed to a post on the same time scale of 
pay” ghall be inserted ; and 

(b) for the words “but who would have so officiated had he not been 

appointed to the higher post”, the words “but who would have so 
officiated in such lower post or in a post on the same time scale of 
pay had he not been appointed to the higher post” shall be substituted. 

H. F. B. PAIS, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 9th June, 1954 

S.R.O. 2004. — The following draft rules, which it is proposed to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (XVIII of 1944), 
are published as required by sub-section (1) of the said section for the informa- 
tion of persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the 
draft rules will be taken into consideration on or after the 12th July 1954. 



1604 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft rules before the date specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

Rules under the Public Debt, Act 1944 

(Act XVIII of 1944) 

1. Short title and application, — (1) These rules may be called the Public Debt 
(Compensation Bonds) Rules, 1954, 

(2) They shall apply to the areas to which the Public Debt Act, 1944 (XVIII 
of 1944), applies. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires— 

(1) “the Act’’ means the Public Debt Act, 1944 (XVIII of 1944); 

(2) “the Bank’’ means the Reserve Bank of India; 

(3) "Bond”, other than an indemnity bond or a security bond, means a 

bond issued under rule 3; 

(4) “the Government”, in relation to any bond, means the State Government 

issuing the bond; 

( 6 ) "District Magistrate” means every person exercising all or any of the 

powers of a District Magistrate as defined under the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), for the time being in force; 

( 0 ) “instalment” means periodical payment of interest and a part of the 
principal amount as may be determined by the Government; 

(7) “Officer of the Bank” means the officer appointed by the Reserve Bank 

of India to perform the duties under the Act; 

( 8 ) “Form" means a form as set out in the Schedule to these rules; 

(9) “Public Debt Office” means the office of the Reserve Bank of India on 

the books of which a bond is registered or may be registered; 

(10) “mutilated Bond” means a bond which has been destroyed, torn or 
damaged in material parts thereof and the material parts of a bond 
are those where— 

(i) the number, description and the, face value of the bond or payments 

of instalments are recorded, or; 

(ii) the endorsement or the name of the payee is written, or 

(iii) the renewal receipt is supplied; 

(11) “Defaced Bond” means a bond which has been made illegible or render- 

ed undecipherable in material parts; 

(12) “Lost Bond” means a bond which has actually been lost and shall not 

mean a bond which is in the possession of some person adversely to 
the ^claimant. 

3. Form of bond Issuable as Government Security under section 2(2) (b) of the 
Act. — The Government may issue a bond in Form A or as near thereto as circum- 
stances permit. Save as otherwise provided in these rules, a bond in such form 
shall be deemed to be a Government security for all the purposes of the Act, 

4. Transfer of bonds. — (1) A bond shall be transferable by endorsement and 
delivery like a promissory note payable to order. 

(2) No endorsement of a bond shall be valid unless made by the signature of 
the holder or his duly constituted attorney or representative inscribed on the back 
of the bond itself. 

(3) No writing on a bond is valid for the purpose of negotiation if such writing 
purports to transfer only a part of the amount denominated by the bond. 

(4) The treasury or sub-treasury, or any office of the Bank or the Public Debt 
Office may decline to accept a bond, endorsed in blank for any purpose, unless the 
endorsement in blank is converted into that in full before presentation. 

5. Payment of instalments. — (1) Instalments on a bond may be made payable 
at any treasury or sub-treasury in the State concerned or at the Public Debt Office, 
subject fb compliance by the holder with such formalities as the Public Debt Office 
may require and instalments shall accordingly be paid at such treasury or sub- 
treasury or Public Debt Office on presentation of the bond. The payee shall give 
a receipt in Form B, Where, however, Instalments are payable at a place where 
a Public Debt Office is located, the bond shall, unless otherwise directed by the 



Paet II — ■Bec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 10, 1954 1605 


Public Debt Office, be presented at the Public Debt Office which shall issue an 
instalment warrant in favour of the holder payable at the local office of the Bank 
or any agency thereof conducting Government treasury business or at a treasury. 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, any instalment du%on a bond, the 
instalments on which are payable at a treasury or sub-treasury may be paid by the 
Public Debt Office by an instalment warrant payable at such treasury or sub- 
treasury. 

6. Procedure when a bond is lost, etc. — ( 1 ) When a bond is lost, stolen, destroy- 
ed, mutilated or defaced, the person entitled thereto may apply for the issue of a 
duplicate bond in the manner laid down in sub-rule ( 3 ) to the Public Debt Offlco 
at which the bond is registered with a statement showing particulars, such as 
number, amount and description of the bond. 

( 2 ) The Bank may by its order suspend payment of instalments on or the 
maturity value of the bond or postpone tne making of any order under section 11 
of the Act until the vesting order has been made. 

( 3 ) Every application for the issue of a duplicate bond in place of a bond which 
is alleged to have been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced, either wholly 
or in part, shall be accompanied by — 

(a) a statement of the following particulars, namely: 

(i) the last half-year or year for which instalment has been paid; 

(ii) the persons to whom such instalment was paid; 

(iii) the person in whose name the bond was issued (if known); 

(iv) the place for payment of instalments at which the bond was for the 

time being enfaced; 

(v) the circumstances attending the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or 

defacement; and 

(vi) whether the loss or theft was reported to the police. 

(b) the Post Office registration receipt for the letter containing the bond, if the 
same was lost In transmission by registered post; 

(c) a copy of the police report, if the loss or theft was reported to the police; 

(d) where the last payment of instalment was not made by a warrant issued 
by the Public Debt Office, a letter signed by the officer of the treasury where 
instalment was last paid, certifying the last payment of instalment on the bond and 
stating the name of the party to whom such payment was made; 

(e) if the applicant is not the holder in whose name the bond was originally 
issued, an affidavit sworn before a Magistrate testifying that the applicant was 
the last legal holder of the bond ^nd all documentary evidence necessary to trace 
back the title to the original holder; and 

(f) any portion or fragments which may remain of the lost, stolen, destroyed, 
mutilated or defaced bona) 

( 4 ) A duplicate of the letter sent to the Public Debt Office, but not of its en- 
closures, shall also be sent to the treasury where instalments are payable. 

( 5 ) The loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement of a bond, or a portion 
of a bond shall be further notified by the applicant in three successive issues of 
the official Gazette of the Government issuing the bond and if the loss, theft, 
destruction, mutilation, or defacement occurred at a place outside the State of the 
Government issuing the bond also in three successive issues of the official Gazette, 
if any, of the State in which such place is situated. Such notification shall be in 
the form following, or as nearly in such form os circumstances permit: — 

“Lost” (“stolen”, “destroyed”, “mutilated”, or defaced” as the case may be) 

“The Bond No, of the Government for Rs. 

originally standing in the name of and last endorsed to 

the proprietor, by whom it was never endorsed to any other person, having been 
lost (stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced) notice is hereby given that payment 
of the above bond and the instalments thereupon have been stopped at the Public 
Debt Office, and that application is about to be made for the issue of a duplicate in 
favour of the proprietor. The public are cautioned against purchasing or other- 
wise dealing with the abovementioned bond. 



I6c6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUttE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. & 


Name of person notifying: 

Residence: 

(6) After the*publication of the last notification prescribed in sub-rule (5) the 
Bank shall, if it is satisfied of the loss, theft, destruction, mutilation or defacement, 
of the bond and of the justice of the claim of the applicant, cause the particulars 
of the bond to be included in a list such as is referred to in rule 7 hereunder and 
shall order the Public Debt Office — 

(i) if only a portion of the bond has been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated 

or defaced, and if a portion of the bond sufficient for its identification 
has been produced, to issue to the applicant, on the execution of an 
indemnity bond such as is hereinafter mentioned, a duplicate bond 
in place of that of which a portion has been lost, stolen, destroyed, 
mutilated or defaced on the expiry of such period not exceeding six 
months as the Bank may consider necessary from or Immediately 
after the date of the publication of the said list; and 

(ii) if no portion of the bond so lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced, 

sufficient for its identification has been produced, to issue to the 
applicant, on the execution of an indemnity bond such as is here- 
inafter mentioned, a duplicate bond in place of the bond so lost, 
stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced one year after the date of 
publication of said list: provided that — 

(a) if the date on which the final instalment of the bond is due for 

payment falls earlier than the date on which the said period of one 
year expires, or if the bond is notified for redemption before that 
date, the Bank shall pa.v all the outstanding instalments after the 
expiry of the said period of one year without issuing a duplicate 
bond; and 

(b) if at any time before the issue of a duplicate bond, the original bond 

is discovered or it appears to the Public Debt Office for other 
reasons that the order should be rescinded, the matter shall be 
referred to the Bank for further consideration and in the mean- 
time all action on the order shall be suspended. 

(7) The Bank may, at any time prior to the issue of a duplicate bond, if it finds 
sufficient reason, alter or cancel any order made by the Bank under this rule and 
may also direct that the intervul before the issue of a duplicate bond shall be 
extended by such period not exceeding one year as it may think fit. 

(8) Indemnity Bonds . — (i) An indemnity bond, when executed under sub- 
rule (6) and not under rule 12 shall he for twice the amount of the instalments 
Involved, that is to say, twice the amount of all back instalments accrued due on 
the bond plus twice the amount of all instalments to accrue due thereon. 

(ii) The Bank may direct that such indemnity bond shall be executed by the 
applicant alone or by the applicant and one or two sureties as it may think fit, 
or that in lieu of furnishing personal sureties the applicant shall furnish 
collateral security in the shape of Government securities to bo deposited with it 
for such amount and period as it may think fit, 

7. Publication of list. — (i) The list referred to in rule 0 shall be published 
quarterly in the Official Gazette of the Government Issuing the bond in the 
months of January, April, July and October or as soon afterwards as may be 
convenient. 

(ii) All bonds in respect of which an order has been passed under rule 6 
shall W" included in the first list published next after the passing of such order 
and thereafter such bonds shall continue to be included in each of the succeeding 
lists published in the months of January and July or soon thereafter until the 
expiration of the period prescribed for the issue of duplicates. 

(iii) The list shall contain, as far as possible, the following particulars regard- 
ing each bond included therein, namely, the description of the bond, the number 
of the bond, its value, the person to whom it was issued, the date from which 
instalments are due, the name of the applicant for a duplicate, the number and 
the date of the order passed by the Bank for payment of instalments or issue of 
a duplicate and the date of publication of the list in which the bond was first 
ir^cluded. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 I<j 07 


8 . Determination of title by vesting order.— Notwithstanding anything con- 
tained in rule 8 , the title to a lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced bond 
may be determined by the Bank by its order vesting title to the bond. 

9. Determination of a mutilated or defaced bond as a bond requiring renewal. — 

It shall be at the option of the Bank to treat a bond which has been mutilated 
or defaced, as a bond requiring the issue of a duplicate under rule 6 or mere 
renewal under rule 14, 

10. When a bond Is required to be renewed. — (1) The holder of a bond may 

be required by the Public Debt Office to receipt the same for renewal in any of 
the following cases, namely: — ■ 

(a) if only sufficient room remains on the back of the bond for one further 

endorsement or if any word is written upon the bond across any 
existing endorsement or endorsements; 

(b) if the bond is torn or in any way damaged or crowded with writing or 

unfit, in the opinion «f the Public Debt Office; 

(c) if any endorsement is not clear and distinct or does not indicate the 

payee or payees, as the case may be, by name or in the case of offlee- 
nolders, by office, or is made otherwise than in one of the endorse- 
ment cages on -the back of the bond; 

(d) if the bond having been enlaced three times for payment of instal- 

ments is presented for re-enfaccment; and 

(c) if, in the opinion of the Public Debt Office, the title of the person 
presenting the bond for payment of instalment is irregular or not 
fully proved. 

(2) When requisition for the renewal of a bond has been made under sub- 
rule (1). payment of any further instalments thereon may be refused until it is 
receipted for renewal and actually renewed. 

11. Procedure for making vesting order. — (1) In cases to which section 9, 10 or 
12 of the Act applies, the Bank may determine the person in the manner here- 
under as being entitled in its opinion to the bond and may by its order vest title 
in such person accordingly. 

(2) The person claiming to be entitled to a bond shall apply to the Bank 
und adduce documentary evidence in support of his claim. 

(3) On receipt of the application by the Bank, the Bank if it contemplates 
making a vesting order under the Act — 

(i) may suspend payment of instalments on or the maturity value of the 

bond or postpone the making of any order under section 11 until the 
vesting order has been made; 

(ii) may, if it considers proper, request a District Magistrate to record or 

to have recorded the wnole or any part of such evidence as any 
person whose evidence the Bank requires may produce or direct 
one of its officers to record such evidence or may receive evidence 
upon affidavit. 

(4) The Bank shall thereafter give notice in writing to each claimant of whom 
it has knowledge, stating the names of all other claimants and the time when and 
the officer of the Bank by whom the determination of title will be made. 

(5) On the date and at the time fixed in the notice referred to in sub-rule 
(4) above, the officer shall — 

(i) examine the evidence adduced by the parties; 

(ii) hear the parties affected and record such evidence as they adduce. 

No further evidence shall be recorded or entertained in cases where — 

(a) the District Magistrate has been requested to record or to have the 

evidence recorded, or 

(b) the Bank has directed one of its officers to record the evidence; and 

(iii) determine the issue as to who is entitled to the bond. 

(6) After determination of the issue by the officer, the Bank shall give notice 
in writing to each claimant of the determination so made. 

(7) The notices prescribed in sub-rules (4) and (fi) above shall be published 
in three successive issues of the Official Gazette of the Government as soon as 
possible after the date on which they are respectively issued. 



l6o8 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1964 [Part II— Sec. 3 

(8) On the expiry of six months from the issue of the notices referred to in 
sub-rule (7), the Bank may make an order vesting the bond in the person found 
by the Bank to be entitled thereto. 

12. Indemnity Bonds. — In cases to which section 9, 10 or 12 of the Act applies, 
the Bank may require any person considered by the Bank as being entitled to a 
bond to execute a security bond in Form C, 'with one or more sureties or to 
furnish security not exceeding twice the value of the subject-matter of the order, 
to be held at the disposal of the Bank to pay to the Bank or to any person to whom 
the Bank may assign the security bond or security in furtherance of sub-section 
(2) of section 16 of the Act, the amount thereof. 

13. Provision for recognition of title to' bonds held by Managing Member of 
Hindu Joint Family subject to Mltaksbara Law.— The certificate required under 
the proviso to section 7 of the Act shall be a certificate signed by the District 
Magistrate after such enquiry (if any) as may in his opimon be necessary to 
determine the matters in question referred to therein. 

14. Receipt for renewal etc. — (1) Subject .to 6ny general or specific instructions 
of the Bank, the Public Debt Office may, by its order, on the application of the 
holder, renew or consolidate a bond or bonds, provided that the bond or bonds 
has or have been receipted in Form D or E, as the case may be. 

(2) Sub-division of a bond or bonds will not be allowed except on an order 
made by the Bank in its discretion, If sub-division is permitted, the bond or 
bonds tendered for sub-division shall be receipted in Form F. 

(3) The Public Debt Office may, under any of the sub-rules of this rule, 
require the applicant to execute a security bond in Form C with one or more 
sureties approved by the Public Debt Office or to furnish security not exceeding 
twice the value of the subject-matter of the order, to be held at the disposal of 
the Bank, to pay to the Bank or to any person to whom the Bank may assign the 
security bond or security in furtherance of sub-section (2) of section 16 of the 
Act, the amount thereof. 

15. Discharge of bond.— (1) When the last instalment on a bond becomes due 
for payment or the bond is notified for redemption it shall be presented at the 
office at which the instalment on the bond is payable or at the Public Debt Office 
and signed by the holder on its reverse. 

(2) If the Public Debt Office is of the opinion that a doubt exists relating to 
the title to a bond, it may require the claimant to execute a security bond in 
Form C with one or more sureties approved by the Public Debt Office, or to 
furnish security not exceeding twice the amount of Instalments involved to be 
held at the disposal of the Bank, to pay to the Bank or to any person to whom 
the Bank may assign the security bond or security the amount thereof. 

16 When executant of a document or maker of an endorsement Is unable to 
write. — (1) If any person by whom any document relating to a bond is to be 
executed or by whom an endorsement is to be made on a bond satisfies a 
Magistrate that he is for any reason unable to write, and that the effect of the 
document or endorsement is fully understood by him, and that he is the person 
whom he represents himself to be, such Magistrate may, at the request of that 
person and subject to the provisions of this rule, execute the document or sign 
the endorsement on his behalf. 

(2) Where any such document is to be executed or an endorsement signed by 
a Magistrate under this rule on behalf of any person, the Magistrate shall execute 
the document or sign the endorsement in the presence of that person, and shall 
enter below his own Signature a certificate to the effect that the document was 
executed or the endorsement signed, as the case may be, at the request of that 
person after having been previously read over to the latter, and that he is satisfied 
that the effect of the document or the endorsement is fully understood by such 
person. 

(3) Nothing In the above sub-rules shall preclude the Bank from acting upon 
the execution of a document relating to a bond or on an endorsement thereon in 
a manner otherwise than referred to above, provided the Bank is satisfied as to 
the genuineness and validity of the execution of the document or endorsement 
on the bond. 

17. Application for grant of Information. — (1) Any person requiring informa- 
tion regarding a bond hi the custody of the Public Debt Office may apply to that 
office in writing stating the form in which the information is required. 



Part II— Sec, 3] 


1609 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 18, 1954 


(2) Every such application shall state with precision the particulars (namely 
the number, description and the lace value) of the bond and shall contain a state- 
ment of the purpose for which the information is required and of the interest of 
the applicant in the bond. If any of the above particulars are not known to the 
applicant, the Bank may on application in writing being made to it, direct the 
Public Debt Office, at its discretion, to supply the required particular or parti- 
culars, if available, to the applicant subject to such conditions and on payment 
of such fees, if any, as it may prescribe. 

18 . Disposal of application for grant of information or inspection. — The 

following provisions shall be observed in dealing with applications under rule 


(1) If the application asks for any information in respect of a bond which 
has been renewed, qonsolidated, or sub-divided otherwise than in the name of the 
person who has renewed, consolidated or sub-divided the bond or asks for 
inspection of such bond, or any register or book kept or maintained in the Public 
Debt Office in respect thereof or of any entry of such bond in such register or 
book, the application shall be refused. The register or the book shall mean the 
register or the book in which the bond is entered, registered or referred to. 

(2) If the applicant asks for inspection or information in respect of a bond 
which has been cancelled on payment of the amount due in respect thereof, it 
shall be referred to, and disposed of under the orders of the Bank. 

(3) In any other case the Public Debt Office may subject to the provisions 
hereinafter contained, grant a certified copy of any endorsement on a bond or of 
any entry in any register or book maintained or kept by that office relating to 
any bond, on being satisfied that the bond in question has stood in the name of 
the applicant, or of a person in whom the applicant has a representative interest, 
and further that the applicant has a bona fide interest in fee bond in respect 
of which the application is made; 

Provided that if the bond has been cancelled for payment of the amount due 
in respect thereof, no copy of any endorsement thereon shall be granted which 
purports to give a title subsequent to the termination of the applicants interest 
in the bond. 

(4) The Public Debt Office may, under a special order of the Bank, supply 
any information regarding a bond referred to in sub-rules (2) and (3) which is 
directed to be supplied by such an order. 

(5) If an applicant asks for — 

(a) any information from the record of the Public Debt Office or the Bank 

in connection with a bond, 

(b) a copy of any document from the record, and 

(c) inspection of any record generally or any document or documents 

specifically, 

the application shall be referred to and disposed of subject to the provisions of 
sub-rule (1) of this rule under the order of the Bank. 

(6) If the application relates to the grant of permission for inspection of an 
instalment warrant or of information relating to payment of instalments for a 
specific period, the application may be granted by the Bank provided the appli- 
cant was the person to whom instalments were paid, 

(7) No information from any document or record in respect of the proceedings 
instituted by the Bank under section 12 of the Act shall be granted by the Bank. 

19. Indemnity Bond and fees in connection with grant of Information or 
inspection. — (1) Every applicant shall, before any information is supplied or 
permission for inspection granted to him, execute a bond of indemnity as nearly 
as may be in Form G for the amount as hereinafter mentioned — 

%) the bond of Indemnity for grant of information or inspection under any 
of the sub-rules (1) to (4) of rule 18 shall be for twice the amount 
of the instalments paid on the bond or bonds from the date of issue, 
and 

(b) the bond of indemnity for grant of information or of permission for 
inspection under sub-rules (5) and (6) of rule 18 shall be for such 
amount as may be determined by the Bank. 



THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


[Eakt II — Sec. 3 


t<5i o 


(2) Every applicant shall, before any information is supplied to him under 
rule 17 or 18, pay a fee of Re. 1 for each bond in respect of which any informa- 
tion is supplied and a fee of Re, 1 shall be paid for oach certified copy granted 
under Rule 18, 

(3) The Bank may waive the execution of a bond of indemnity or may forego 
the fees either wholly or partly payable to the Bank under sub-rule (2) above, 
or may defboth. 

20. Fees. — The following fees shall be paid in respect of applications under 
section II of the Act, namely: — 

“ For each renewed, consolidated, sub-divided or duplicate bond, 4 annas per 
cent, if the face value of the new bond does not exceed Rs. 400, and Re. 1 if the 
new bond exceeds that sum. 


Form ‘A’ 

(See Rule 3) 

Form of Bond issued under Rule 3 

The Governor/Rajpramukh of hereby promises to pay 

to at any treasury in the Rs only 

together with interest accruing thereon at the rate of per cent, per 

annum in equated yearly/half-yearly instalments on the , day of.. 

and every year during the period of years 

from the day of or earlier at the absolute option of 

the Governor/Rajpramukh of subject to the provision bf the 

and the rules framed thereunder. 

Dated the day of 

Manager, 

Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt Office. 

FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNOR/RAJPRAMUKH OF 

Governor, 

Reserve Bank of India. 



Form ! B’ 
(See Rule 5) 


Receipt for equated annual/half yearly instalments on 

Received from the Government Treasury at 

No. of Bond Amount of Amount of yeariy/half yearly Number of yearly/half 
each Bond ins talm ent yearly instalment due 

Principal Interest 

Rs. As. Ps. Rs. As. Ps. 


Deduct Incometax at 
pies 


Tctai received (>n words) 


Surcharge 

Net Amount payable 
Total Rupees 


instalments due on 


as follows: — 


Total amount due Date up to] Name of the 

— — . which instal- holder of the 

Principal Interest ment is due. Bond.] 

Rs. As. Ps. Rs. As. Ps. 


Signature 

(State whether holder or holder’s attorney or administrator). 



I ^ 
:( - 


Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 



[Part II — Sec, 3 


1612 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 


Form ‘C’ 

(See Eule 12) 

Security Bond 

This Agreement is made on the day of 

Between son of resident of of the one 

part and the Reserve Bank of India of the other part. 

Whereas I/we am/are represent the true and law owner /s of the 

Bonds specified in the Schedule “A” hereto annexed. 

And whereas I/we have applied to the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt 

Office, for of the said Bonds and the said Bank 

has consented so to do upon my/our giving security of Rs to meet a 

claim by a rightful owner to the said Bonds in case there shall be such a claim. 

Now these Presents witness that in pursuance of the aforesaid agreement 
I/we hereby oblige myself/ourselves to make good the claim of the rightful 
owner in respect of the said Bonds and I/we hereby further agree that this 
security bond may be held by the said Bank and the said Bank may assign the 
security Bond to the rightful owner of the said Bonds. 

In witness whereof I/we have subscribed my /our name/names 

day of 

Signed by the within 

mentioned in the 

presence of 


Principal. 


I/We Between son of resident 

of hereby undertake to make good any claim to the rightful 

owner of the Bonds mentioned in the schedule hereto m case the principal/ 
principals makes/make default in payment of the claim by virtue of the above 
agreement. 


Signed by the within 
mentioned in the 
presence of 


Surety. 

SCHEDULE “A” REFERRED TO IN THE SECURITY BOND 


Nature and description of the Bond 

Number 

Date of 
issue 

Amount 


1 




Form ‘D’ 

(See Rule 14) 

Form of Indorsement for Renewal of a Bond 

Received in lieu hereof a renewed bond payable to (name of holder), with 
instalments payable at Treasury. 

Signature of the holder/duly authorised representative of (name of 
holder) 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 i 6 l 3 


Form ‘E’ 

(See Rule 14) 

Form of Indorsement for Consolidation of Bonds 

Received in lieu hereof a new bond payable to (name of holder) for Rs 

by consolidation with bond or bonds Nos (mentioning the num- 
bers and amounts of the other bonds desired to be consolidated with it) with 

instalments payable at Treasury. 

Signature of the holder/duly authorised representative of (name of 
holder) 


Form ‘F’ 

(See Rule 14) 

Form of Indorsement for Sub-division of a Bond 

Received in lieu hereof bonds for Rs. . . respectively, 

payable to (name of holder), with instalments payable at Treasury. 

Signature of the holder/duly authorised representative of (name of holder) .... 


Form ‘G’ 

(See Rule 19) 

Form of Indemnity Bond 

Whereas I/We son of resident of 

(and son of resident at claim to be 

entitled ). 

( Here state in what capacity claim to the bonds is made) to the Bond(s) 
specified in the schedule hereunder written and have represented to the Reserve 

Bank of India, Public Debt Office, that the said Bond(s) has/have 

been and have applied to the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt 

Office, for an inspection of the said Bond(s) and also for all other 

information and particulars respecting the said Bond(s) and whereas the Reserve 

Bank of India, Public Debt Office, has agreed to give inspection and 

to afford to me/us all information and particulars affecting the said Bond(s), 1/ 
we oblige mysell/ourselves my /our heirs and assigns whatsoever. 

(To be omitted if bond taken from one person only) (jointly and severally) 
to guarantee and defend and relieve the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt 

Office, and the Government to the extent of Rs.* from all 

and any claim, question and expenses which may be raised against or incurred 

by the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt Office, or the Government in 

reference to the said Bond(s). 

In witness hereof I/wc have subscribed my/our name(s) this 

day of 

Signed by the within mentioned in the presence of .. 

Applicant’s Signature 

The Schedule referred to in the foregoing Bond, 

•Double the amount of the instalments paid thereon since the respective dates 
of issue. 

[No. F.8(35)-B/53.] 
H. S. NEGI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 10th June, 1954 

S.R.O, 2005. — In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (XV of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby nominates Shri Khandubhai K. Dcsai, M.P. to be a Director on the 
Board of Directors of the Industrial Finance Corporation. 


[No. F.2(13) -FIII/54.] 



j6i4 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 TPart II— Sec. 3 


New Delhi, the 14 Ih June, 1954 

S.R.O, 2006. — In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section (1), read with sub- 
section (4), of section 8 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (II of 19341, the 
Central Government hereby reappointed Shri B, Rama Rau as the Governor 
of the Reserve Bank of India for a term of one year with effect from the 1st 

July, 1954. 

[No. F,3 (II) -F.l/54.] 

New Delhi, the 15 th June, 1954 

S.R.O. 2007. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause Civ) of sub- 
section (1) of section 28 of the Imperial Bank of India Act. 1920 (XL VII of 
1920), the Central Government hereby nominates Dr. J, P. Niyogl, Pt.D. 
(London) .Dean of Faculty of Arts and Head of the Department of Economies, 
Calcutta University, Calcutta, not being an Officer of the Government, to be 
a Director of the Central Board of the Imperial Bank of India, vice Shri S. K. 
Sinha, resigned. 

[No. F.8(l) -FI/54.1 

S.R.O 2008. — In exercise of the Dowers conferred by section 53 of the 
Banking Companies Act_ 1949 (X of 1949) and rule 16 of the Banking Compa- 
nies Rules, 1949, the Central Government, on the recommendation of the 
Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 31 of the 
said Act and rule 15 of the said Rules shall not apnlv to the under noted 
banking Companies in so far as they relate to the publication of their balance 
sheets and profit and loss accounts for the period ended the 31st December. 
1953, together with the auditors’ report in a newspaper, namely: — 

1, Madapally Sri Vilasam Bank Ltd., Mundakayam. 

2. Lakshmi Banking Corporation Ltd., Pudukkottai. 

[No. F.4(103) -F.l/54.] 

CORRIGENDUM 

S.R.O. 2009. — In the Ministry of Finance. Department of Economic Afl'a'rc. 
Notification of even number dated 22nri May. 1954, published in the Gazette 
of India (Part II-Section 3) dated 29th Mav, 1954, under No. S.R.O. 1696. read 
“Dr. Dady Rustomii Banaji, M.A.,LL.B. D.Litt.” for "Dr. Dady Rustomii Babaji,- 
M.A..LL.B., D.Litt.” 

[No. F.4(177) -F.I./53.1 
K. P. BISWAS, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 11 . th June, 1954 

S.R.O. 2010. — In exorcise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and, in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, by clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, the Presi- 
dent, after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General in so far as 
the above mentioned persons are concerned, hereby directs that the following 
further amendments shall be made, and shall be deemed to have been made with 
effect from the 16th September, 1953, in the Civil Service Regulations, namely: — 

In the said Regulations — 

I. In Rule 1 below article 38 the words ‘and pensions’ shall be omitted and 
the following shall be added at the end of the Rule, namely: — 

“It is treated as ‘emoluments’ for pension in the circumstances indicated 
in clause (b) of article 486.” 

II. For clause (b) of article 486 the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(b) Personal allowance, which is granted (i) in lieu of loss of substantive 
pay in respect of a permanent post other than a tenure post, or fit) 
with the specific sanction of the Government of India, for any other 
personal considerations, 

Note. — ‘Personal Pay’ granted in lieu of loss of substantive pay in resDect 
of a permanent post other than a tenure post shall he treated as 
personal allowance for the purpose of this article. ‘Personal pay’ 
granted on any other personal considerations shall not be treated 
as personal allowance unless otherwise directed by the President.” 

[No. F.15(28) -E.V./53.] 

K. S. GANAPATI, Dy. Secy, 



(Department of Economic Affairs — Office of the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India.) 

New Delhi, the 19th June, 1954. 

S.R.O toil' — A list of properties and a list and abstract account of securities held by the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India under the Charitable 
Endowments Act, 1890 (VI of 1890), for the year 1953-54, are published for general info rm ation. 

Part I 

List of properties other than Securities 


Particulars of vesting order 

Serial r— * Name of Admini strators of 

No. No. Date Endowment Property 


Property held 


Description 


Value 


Annual in- 
come if 
known 


Remarks 


BOMBAY 


r G.I.HJD. 
Education 
No. 433. 


27th May 

1909. 


The Indian 
Institute of 
Science. 


“ Victoria Buildings". 

The Collector of Bom- All that piece of freehold, situ- Not known Non known 


2 & 3 Da 


Do. 


Do. 


bay. Sir Rahim- 
tullah Meherali 
Chinoy, Kt., and 
Mr. Naval H. Tata, 


Do. 


ated in the Fort on the eastern 
side of Pars! Bazar Street, at or 
near the Elphinstonc Circle 
with the messuage, tenements, 
buildings thereon known as 
“Victoria buildings’, contain- 
ing by admeasurement 482 3/4 
sq. yards or thereabouts. 

Albion Place and Alexandra 
Terrace ”. — AH that piece of 
land, situated at BycuHa on 
the eastern side of Parel Road 
with the messuage, tenements 


Do. 


Do. 


Part II— Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19 , 1954 1615 



4 & 5 GIHD 

Education 
No 433 


5 & 6 Do. 


3 4 6 


6 


7 8 


9 




and buildings thereon, with 
their outhouses and stables 
known as ‘Albion Place and 
Alexandra Terrace’ containing 
by admeasurement 11,104 
square yards or thereabouts, 

27tq May The Indian The Collector of Bom- “ Reay House” and “ Sandhurst Not known Non known 

1909 Institute of bay, Ssr Rahimtulah House”. — All that piece or 

Science roehhrali Chfnoy Kt- parcel of leasehold land, situa- 
and Naval H.Tata.. ted on the Apollo Reclamation, 

in the Island of Bombay, 
containing by admeasurement 
2004 8/9 square yards, with 
the two buildings thereon, 
known as “ Reay House” and 
“ Sandhurst House”. 

Do. Do. Do. . “ Rosevelt or Ezra House”. — AD Do. Do. 

that piece or parcel of lease- 
hold land, situated on the 
Apollo-Reclaniation, contain- 
ing by admeasurement 533 
square yards and 3/9 of another 
square yard with the budd- 
ings thereon, known as ‘ Rose- 
vdt House or Ezra House’, 
and secondly all that piece of 
leasehold land also situated 
on the Apollo Reclamation, 
in the Island of Bombay, 
containing by admeasurement 
573 square yards and 3/5 of 
another square yard. 

Do. Do. Do. . . “ Sargent House ” and "Jenkins Do. Do. 

House”. — Ah that piece or 
parcel of land situated on the 
Apollo Reclamation, in the 
Island of Bombay, containing 


7 & 8 Do. 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 8 



9 & io Do. Do. Do. Do. . 


Do. Do. Do. Do. . 


12 &13 Do. Do. Do, Do. . 


by admeasurement 3,487-2/9 
square yards, with the buil- 
dings thereon, known as 
“ Sargent House and Jenkins 
House”. 


“ New Shamji Buildings now 
known as Station Terraces , 
Steator Road”. — All that piece 
of land of Foras tenure, ad- 
measuring 2,290 square yards 
or thereabouts, with the several 
messuages, tenements or dwe- 
lling houses, known as ‘New 
Shamji Buildings. Extension 
now known as the Station 
Terraces situate on the South 
side of the Steator Road, 
Bombay r> . 

“ Candy House”. — All that piece 
of leasehold land, situated on 
the Apollo Reclamation in the 
Island of Bombay, containing 
by admeasurement 488-8/9 
square yards, known as ‘Candy 
House’." 

“ Land near Albion Place and 
Alexandra Terrace ”. — 

All that piece of land contain- 
ing by admeasurement 8,570 
square yards or thereabouts 
registered by the Collector 
of Bombay with other land 
situated at Byculla on the 
eastern side of Parel Road in 
the city of Bombay, together 
with messuages, tenements 
and dw elling houses standing 
thereon known as ‘land near 
Albion Place and Alexandra 
terrace’. 


107-8/9 sq. yards 
acquired by the 
Land Acquisition 
Officer for the dty 
of Bombay. 


Fast II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 



“Land at Par el Tank Road”. 

14 G.I.H.D. 27 May 1909 The Indian The Collector of Bom- Firstly — All that piece of land Not known 
Education No. Institute of bay. Sir Rahimtullah admeasuring 67,057 square 

433. Science. Mdirah Chinoy, yards or thereabouts whereof 

Kt., and Mr. Naval 7,021 square yards is Govem- 

H. Tata. menl Toka land and 2,189 

square yards is recently assess- 
ed Government land and re- 
maining is Inam land situated 
at Patel on the public Road, 
leading to Parel Government 
tank, known as land at Pare! 

Tank Road (Wages hri Hill). 

Secondly— All that piece of 
vacant Inam land admeasuring 
6,005 square yards or there- 
abouts situated at Parel. 

Thirdly — All that piece of 
vacant land of the Govern- 
ment Toka tennure containing 
by admeasurement 1,058 
square yards or thereabouts 
situated at and on the south 
side of Golangi Hill Road at 
Parel in the city of Bombay. 

Fourthly — All that piece of 
vacant Government Toka land, 
containing by admeasurement 
566 square yards or thereabouts 
situated at and on the south 
side of Golangi Hill Road at 
Parel in the city of Bombay. 

Note . — Some of the buildings 
have been proposed for sale 
but the sale has not been com- 
pleted t ride Government of 
India, Deptt. E. H. and Lands 
express letter No. D-268-EII/ 

45, dated 15-6-45. 


Not known Out of 74,686 sq. 

yards 15,575-80 
square yards 

acquired by Govern- 
ment under land 
Acquisition Act 
for the construc- 
tion of the work of 
the Tata Hydro- 
electric Power and 
Supply Co. Ltd., in 
connection with 
its transmission 
lines & 37,471 — 52 
square yards sub- 
sequently acquired 
in 1922 by the 
Land Acquisition 
Officer. 



1618 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 



UTTAR PRADESH 


Govt, of 2 April 1918 Gixaunui A Committee consis- (a) Three houses situated in 600 o o 
U.P. Educa- and 29 Kayastha ting of the Collector, Mohalla Welesley gun), distt. 

tion Deptt, Nov. 1923 Pa th sal a Mirzapur an Ex- Mirzapur bounded as follows — 

Notifica- respectively. Endow- Officio Chairman and (1) South — House of Shri 
tion No. ment trust, Executor of the Piarelal, North — House of 

602 /XV- Mirzapur. estate of the late Musammat Jhunna, West — 

201 and Munshi Bindeshwari Government Road, East — 

808 G/SV/ Prasad, Pleader. House of Shri Sumer Sonar. 

619, 1923* 

(2) South — House of Munshi > 600 o o 
Bindeshwari Prasad, Vakil, 

North — Mosque, West — 

House of Shri Rameshwar 
Teli, East — Road. 

(3) South — House of Shri Bu- 600 o o 
dhan, North — House of Mur- 

shi Bindeshwari Prasad, Vakil, 

West — House of Musammat 
Umrao. East — Road. 

(6) Whole of Mauza Giraun- 6,483 14 7 
dai, Pargana Bhuil, Tehsil 
Chunar, Mirzapur District. 

(c) A grove situated in .Mauza 600 o o 
Giraundi, Tehsil Ch unar , 

Mirzapur District. 

(d) Pathshala in Mauza Gira- 50 o o 

undi, Tehsil Chunar Dis- 
trict Mirzapur situated in 

the grove mentioned in (c) 
above. 

( e ) One bigha, 12 biswas of 172 8 o 
maufi land and a grove of 18 

biswas. 


•Represents accounts for the year ending 30 th September 1953 . 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 



1 2 3 4 5 


6 


7 


8 9 


PUNJAB 

Pending apportionment of 
Properties relating to 
Central Charitable Endow- 
ments between India and 
Pakistan, the list of pro- 
perties could not be pre- 
pared by Accountant Gene- 
ral (Treasurer of Charit- 
able Endowments), East 
Punjab. 


PART II 

List and abstract account of securities 


Particulars of Secudtcs 


Case Name of Endowmem 

No. 

Persons on whose behalf held 

3% 

1963-65 

Bombay 4% 

Municipal 1960-70 
Debentures 

4 l% 

I 955 - 6 o 

Calcutta 
Port 
Trust 
Debentures 
and bonds 

Bombay Bombay 
Improve- Port 
ment Trust 

Trust Debentures 
Debentures 

National 

Savings 

Certificate 

3 i% y 
Treasurt 
Deposi 
Ccxtificalea 

r 

2 

3 

4 

5 6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

ir 

12 



INDIA 









r 

2 

Merchant Seamen’s Amenities 
Fund. 

Khandp*ra State Trust Pond . 

Chairman Merchant Seamen’s 
Amenities Fund Committee. 

Board of Trustees, Khandpara 
State Trust Fund 

4,50,000 

... 



1 


60,000 

50,000 



BOMBAY 









r 

2 

3 

The Indian Institute of Science 
(Bangalore properties). 

Do. (Bombay properties) . 
Fakirji Cawasjee of Karachi 
Scholarship Fund. 

The Council of die Indian Insti- 
tute of Science, Bangalore 

Ditto 

Capti Superintendent, I.MJviT. 
S., Daflcrin Mazgacn, Bombay. 

‘ 4,100 

2,000 2,09,500 

11,67,000 9,29,500 

50,000 

r, 50,000 

12 19 200 

19,500 

22,000 

12,000 

1,000 



u> 


1620 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 



PART II— corud. 

List and abstract account of securities— could. 


Na me of Endowment 


Securities Cash receipts 

C — —> I * 1 

3% Loan 3% Con- 3% Vic- Total of Interest or Other cash Total cash 
of 1970-75 version tory Loan Securities dividend receipts receipts 

Loan 1946 1957 realised 


Cash 

diture 


Payments 


, Balance in 
cash 


INDIA 

1 Merchant Seamen's Amenities 
Fond. 

2 Khan dp*re State Trust Fund 


BOMBAY 

The Indian Institute of Science .... 30,200 ... 4,66,300 

(Bangalore properties) 

Do. (Bombay properties) 2,75,400 20,22,800 ... 56,47,900 

Fakirp Cawasjee of Karachi 60,000 ... 60,00c 

Scholarship Fund. 


22,8 24 o o 


21,446 10 o 


22,824 o o 


22,824 o o 

(A) 


21,446 10 0 21,446 10 o 


2,01,877 00 79 5 11 2,01,956 J 11 
1,790 10 o ... 1,790 10 o 


(A) Includes Rs. ng/14;- fox 
fees paid to Government- 

♦Excludes securities 
amounting to Rs. 4,600. 
received during 1954-55* 
t Interest on the securitic 
haa not been shown in 
the accounts as it was 
collected by the Im- 
perial Bank of India, 
New Delhi and not by 
the Treasurer. 


2,01,877 00 79 5 it 


Case Name of Endowment Person on whose behalf t 
No. held 


Particulars of Securities Cash receipts Cash expenditure 

* ^ — >• , , * -v Balance 

in cash 

G*P. 3% 3% Convex- Total of Interest or Other cash Total cash Payments 

Note 8 1970-75 sion Loan Securities dividend rea- receipts receipts 
1946 Used 


WEST BENGAL 

1 The Indian People’s Board of Management, 

Famine Trust- New Delhi. 

2 The Jewish Charitable Mussa Board, Calcutta . 

Endowment, 


32,78,400 32,78,400 98,352 0 0 


38^00 93,600 13,421 0 o 


98,352 o o 


f 97^39 12 o 


512 4 o (A) 


13^421 oof 13,351 I O 

l 69 15 0 (/!) 


(A) Fees for interest cofl 


Par* II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 1621 



dical relief of officers 
and seamen of Mer- 
cantile Marine. 


i The Woodhouse Me- 
morial Fund* 


Prasad Trust Fund. 


Fund. 


Scholarship Fund. 


2 The Shops 
School 
meet Fund* 


3 The Bhopal .Sulemania 
and Jahangiria School 
Endowment Fund. 


3 4 

S 

6 7 

s 

9 

TO 

II 

12 13 

Civil Surgeon and Secre- 
tary General, Hospital 

Trust Fund Committee, 

Chittagong, East Pakis- 
tan. 


10,000 

10,000 

7- 

< 

14 4 0 

5) 

744 4 0 

744 ■ 

BIHAR 








The Collect or of Bhagal- 
pur. 

1,200 

... 

1,100 

33 0 0 


m 

UJ 

0 

0 

, — 

32 14 0 

0 2 0 (A) 

The Honorary Treasurer 
of the Bihar Society for 

Prevention of Cruelty to 

Animals, Patna. 

1,600 


16,00 

48 0 0 


48 0 0 

47 12 0 

0 4 oG4) 

The Director of Public 

Instruction, Bihar. 

1,100 


1,100 

33 0 0 

... 

33 0 0 { 

1 

32 14 0 

0 2 o(/I) 

MADHYA PRADESH 








Committee consisting of 
the Divisional Superin- 
tendent of Education, 

Raipur and the Sub- 
Diviskmal Officer, Raj- 
nandgaon. 


1^00 7*200 

8,600 

257 5 6 


257 5 6 

257 5 &;o .. 

(i) H. H- The Ruler TF... 
of Bhopal for the tunc 
being (n) Shri Mahabir 

Prasad Verma formerly 

Judge of the Bhopal 

High Court (at) Snri 

Mohammad Ahmed 

Ansari formerly Judge 
of the Bhopal High 

Co art. 


9,2 4^00 

9,24*400 

27,662 S 0 


27,662 8 0 

27.662 8 0(0 .. 

Do. . 4,31.700 

... 

... 

4*31,700 

17,224 13 O 


17*224 13 0 

r 17,224 13 0(0 .. 


PUNJAB (i). 


Pending apportionment of securities relating to Central Charitable Endowments between India and Pakistan, the Hst of Securities could not be nrenared the Actxruntant Cenersl 

(Treasurer of Charitable Endowments), East Punjab* 


(A) Fee# for interest collected. 


(R) Opening Balance* (O) Includes fees paid to Government. 


1622 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Stac. 3 






Particulars of Securities 


Cash receipts 


Cash 

expenditure 

Balance Remarks 
in 

Case 

No, 

Name of Endowment Persons on whose behalf 4 % Post Office 

held 1 g 60-70 National 

Savings 
Certificate 

3 % 

Loan 

of 

1970-75 

3% Total of 

Conversion securities 
Loan 

1946 

Interest or 
dividend 
realised 

Other 

cash 

receipts 

Total cash 
receipts 

Payments 

cash 

1 

2 

3 4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 


13 



UTTAR PRADESH* 












Aligarh 












r 

Tasadduq Rasul Arabic Scho- 
larship Endowment Trust. 

Treasurer, Muslim Uni- . . . 
versty, Aligarh. 

... 


20,200 

20^00 

602 14 0 


602 14 0 

602 14 

0 


2 

Sir Saiyed Ahmed Memorial 
Trust, Aligarh. 

Registrar, Muslim Uni- ... 
versity, Aligarh, 

... 

... 

1,1 6,000 

1,16,000 

3,461 14 0 

... 

3,461 14 0 

3,461 14 

0 


3 

Sir William Morris Scholar- 
ship Endowment Trust, 

Vice Chancellor, Mu 5- ... 
hm University, Aligarh 

- 

... 

Moo 

6400 

igr 0 0 


'S 

0 

0 

191 0 

0 



Allahabad 












4 

Rewa Scholarship Endowment 
Trust, 

Principal, Government 
Intermediate College, 

A 1 lahabsd 



4,100 

4,100 

122 6 0 


122 6 O 

122 6 

0 


5 

Parma Scholarship Endowment 
Trust 

Director of Education, 

U.P., Allahabad. 


... 

4400 

4400 

131 4 0 

... 

131 4 0 

... 



6 

Charkari Scholarship Endow- 
ment Trust. 

Ditto 

... 

... 

8,200 

8,200 

244 12 0 


244 12 0 

244 12 

0 


7 

Vizianagram Scholarshp En- 
dowment Trust. 

Registrar, Uni versity erf 
Allahabad. 

— 

... 

26,000 

26,000 

775 14 0 

... 

775 14 0 

775 14 

0 


8 

Ditto • • • 

Principal, Government 
Intermediate College, 
Allahabad. 


... 

14,800 

14,800 

441 10 0 


441 ro 0 

441 10 

0 



Banaras 












9 

Sadholal Scholarship Endow- 
ment Trust. 

Principal, Sanskrit Col- 
lege, Banaras 


... 

45,000 

4 J 4 *» 

1,343 0 0 


1343 0 0 

I >343 0 

0 


10 

Katbiawad Sanskrit Scholar- 
ship Endowment Trust. 

Ditto. 

... 

... 

9,100 

»,I00 

271 10 0 


271 10 0 

271 10 

0 


. 11 

B. Shyam Singh and Brijki- 
shore Tan don Swimming 
Competition Endowment Trust. 

Headmaster, Central 

Hindu School, Banana. 


... 

300 

' 30 ° 

900 


VD 

O 

O 

9 0 

0 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1984 1623 



Parthian of Securities 


Cash receipts 


C_ 

*0. 


ase N ame of Endowment 


^Persons cm whense behalf 
held 


4% Post 3% 
1960-70 Office Loan 

National of 
Savinas 1970-75 
Certificate 


3% 

Con- 

versioc 

Loan 

1946 

7 


Total of 

securities 


Interest or Other 
dividend cash 

realised . receipts 


Total cash 
receipts 


Cash Balance 
expenditure in^ Remarks 

Payments 


14 


Banaras — ccctd. 


UTTAR PRADESH* — contd. 


12 Magri Pracharini Sab ha Endow- Secretary, Nagri Pla- 
iner t Trust, chan'nj Sabha, Banaras, 

13 Rewa Scholarship Endowment Principal, Govt, Higher 

Trust. Secondary School, 

1 ' " Benaras. 

J4 Maha aj Komar Sri Sudhangsu Vice Chancellor, Hindu 
Sbehhar Singh Deo heir appa- University, Banaras. 
rent of Sonepur Estate OnsSa 
Medal Endowment Trust. 

15 Central Hindu Scboori, Yidya- Head Master, Central 

rtfii Sahayak Sabha Chari- Hindu School, Banaras, 
table Endowment Trust 

16 Rani Bhuwan Raj Lakahmi Registrar, Hindu Uns- 

Debi Endowment Trust versity, Banaras. 

Bauri Garhmal 

17 G-arhw.il Kaahatriya Scholar- Secretary, Garhwal Ka- 

ship Endowment Trust shatriya Scholarship 

Endowment Trust 
Fund, Fauri. 

1 8 Chandra Baiiav Memorial En- Deputy Commissioner, 

dowment Trust. GarhwaL 

Lucknow 

19 MacDonnel Fund for Training Principal, Medical Col- 

of Lady doctors. lege, Lucknow. 

20 Nagar Education Endowment Secretary, Nagar Educa- 

Trust tion Endowment Trust 

Upper India, Luck- 
now. 

21 Capt Run war Inderjit Singh, Principal, Medical Col- 

M.C, I JVi.S. Scholarship Fund, lege, Lucknow. 


Mirzapur 

2.2 Giraundi KayaSth 
Endowment Trust. 


Paths ab Collector, Mirzapur 


13,000 

8,000 


400 1,300 


15,100 


5i,Soo 

89,000 


94.3CO 

16,600 


51,800 1,545 14 o 


89,000 2,656 2 O 


i,54S 14 o 1,545 H 


2,656 2 o 2,656 2 


1,07,300 

26,300 


3,224 2 
828 10 


39 15 
34 6 


3*263 

863 


3,263 

863 


1,00,200 I, GO ,200 3,148 8 


3,148 8 o 3,148 8 


1,600 


16,700 648 TO 


648 IO 0 


64S TO O 


1 , 39.400 

1 , 39,400 

3,614 1 

0 


3*614 I 

0 

3,614 1 

0 ... i| 

5,Soo 

5,800 

173 i 

0 


173' 2 

0 

172 3 

0 || 

i,5oo 

1,500 

44 14 

0 

- 

44 12 

0 

44 12 

0 ... I| 

65,000 

65,000 

1,939 14 

0 


L 939 14 

0 

1,939 14 

0 ... I 

7,300 

7*300 

117 14 

0 


217 14 

0 

217 14 

0 ... 1) 


;,30Q *Disch- 
nrted 
value of 
3% I© 111 
1953^55 
awaiting 
invest- 
ment. 


♦Represents accounts for the year endiag 309-53 


(No. F.*fi2>- F.i TCE/54 
S. G .Barve, 

Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for Ind^ . 


1624 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19 , 1954 l 625 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (Revenue DI \Ision) 

ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi , the 8th June, 1954 

S.R.O 3-012 — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Sub-section (i) of 
Section p of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), the Central Government hereby remits 
for the whole of the State of Delhi with effect from the 1st December 1948, the duty chargeable 
under article 4 of the First Schedule to the said Act on certain affidavits sworn by the nationals of 
Pakistan specified in Column 2 of the schedule annexed hereto in connection with the claims 
mentioned in the corresponding entry of column 3 of the said Schedule. 

SCJJEDUI.E 


Sr. Name of the Claimant Claim case No. 

No. 


I. 

Mr. Ahnadar Hussain 






■ H. 427/48 

2. 

„ Khuda Bnx Bagh Khan Mangrio 





. II. 460/48 

3. 

„ Abdul Sattar Baig 






■ H. 470/48 

4 - 

„ Abdullah Khan 






. H. 472/48 

5 - 

„ Mohd Ismail 






. H. 27/49 

6 . 

„ Gulam Khan 






. H. 37/49 

7 - 

3 j Haji Ahmad Din Butt 1 . 






. H. 125/49 

8, 

„ Fazal Hussain 






■ H. 151/49 

9 . 

„ Sher Bashadu 






. H. 216/49 

10. 

33 Nohammad Hasham 






H. 220/49 

II. 

3, Hakim Sycd Mohd. Shafiq 






. H. 28/49 

12. 

33 Irshad Ahmad 






• H. 214/49 

13- 

33 Alam Sher . 






. H. 120/49 

14. 

3, Muhammad Din' . 






• H. 38/50 

15 - 

33 Fazal Ahmad 






. H. 24/49 

16. 

3, Q. Habibullah 






. II. 441/48 

17 - 

Ch. Mohd Tufail 






■ H. 337/48 

18. 

Mr. Willayat Khan 1 






. H. 221/49 

19 - 

Mst. Rahmat Bibi 

• 





• H. 215/49 

20. 

Mr. Khair Din . . . 






. H. 141/49 

21. 

Syed Willayat Hussain . 

• 





. II. 105/48 

22. 

Zillc Ahmed 




. 


. H. 14/49 

23- 

Mr. Abdul Ghafoor 






■ FI. 174/48 

24. 

Mr. Mohd. Hussain 






. H. 11/49 

25- 

Mr. Siraj Din 






. H, 64/48 

26, 

Sub. M. Sadiq 






• H. 319 147 

27 . 

Air. Fazal Din . 






■ H. 205/47 

. 28. 

Sh. Qarnar Din . 






. H. 14/48 



1626 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 19, 1954 [Pabt II— Sec, 3 


Sr. Name of the Claimant Claim case No. 

No. 


29 . 

Mr. Mohammad Ismail ...... 

. H. 206/48 

30 . 


Ghulam Mohammad ...... 

. H. 182/48 

31 . 

39 

Abdul Rauf ....... 

. H. 71/48 

32 . 

33 

Mohd. Sharif Rcla ...... 

. H. 193/48 

33 . 

33 

Ghulam Mohammad ...... 

. H. 344/47 

34- 

33 

Mohd. Shaft 

■ H. 215/47 

35- 

>3 

Mohd. Irfan ....... 

■ H. 137/48 

36 . 

33 

Mohd. Amin ....... 

. H. 182/47 

37- 

>3 

Labh Din 

. H. 2/48 

38. 

33 

Mohd. Akaram Shah ...... 

■ H. 331/47 

39- 

33 

Haji Mohd. Din ....... 

. H. 72/48 

40 . 

39 

Mohd. Ibrahim 

• H. 332/233/47 

4i. 

33 

Abdul Rahim ....... 

. H. 4/48 

42 . 

93 

Mohd. Raftquc ....... 

. H. 8/48 

43- 

33 

Mohd. Saecd 

. H. 263/47 

44 . 

39 

Karam Khan 

. H. 138/48 

45- 

39 

Mohd. Sharif 

. H. 158/48 

46 . 

93 

Barat Ali Khan 

• H. 309 , 316 , 334, 
342 and 371/47 

47. 

99 

Mohd. Amin 

. H. 26/47 

48 . 

39 

Allah Nawaz 

• H. 25/49 

49- 

39 

Mohd. Suleman ....... 

■ H. 393/47 

50 , 

39 

Mohd. Abdur Hamid ...... 

. H. 178/48 


[No. 6.] 

A. K. MUKARJI, Dy. Secy. 


Customs 

New Delhi, tjie 12tli June, 1954 

S.R.O. 2013. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), the Central Government herebv exempts Acetyl 
Sulphapyridine imported into India and falling under item 28 of the First 
Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (XXXII of 1934), from so much of the 
duty of customs leviable thereon under the said Act as is in excess of the duty 
of — 


(1) 30 per cent, ad valorem, where the slandard rate of duty is leviable, and 

(2) 20 per cent, ad valorem, where a preferential rate of duty is leviable, 

and in either case also from the whole of the additional duty of customs leviable 
thereon under any law for the time being in force. 


[No. 58.] 

E. RAJARAM RAO, Joint Secy. 



Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1954 1627 


New Delhi , the 19th June , 1954 

S.R.O. 2014 .— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Finance Department (Central Revenues) No. 1— Customs, dated the 
9th March, 1946, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, after Serial Number 8 and the entries 
relating thereto, the following Serial Number and entries relating thereto shall 
be inserted, namely: — 


1 


2 


3 


"8A 


(i) Sumach (also spelt Sumac) leaves 

including ground Sumach. V The whole” 

(ii) Valonia cups and beards. J 


[NO. 69.] 

E. RAJABAM RAO, Joint Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DEI.HI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1954 




