222 


REGISTERED No D. 22 2. 


9lRcT 





*tsmi 


(Hie (Bazette of «3ndia 

TT l fiTTU - a A - T T «^lfVl>4 f 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


fio 24] fit irfnwiT, «w 16,1973/ 26, 1895 

No. 24] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26. 1895 

*Vt wn R <J»3 TOII VTT’ft 5 fomfl fa RE *WT ifa^TR *f TV1 IfT ifa 

Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 

, *m II — w*¥ 3 — (ii) 

PART 11 — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(twt ifaurR «pt sfryw) «nra flTvnr it nwfi vw tin art wtfanc) 

itfnFfa mhmfTRt irn wit fa$ fafaro antn ark warrant? 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) by Central Aothorities 
(other than the Administration of Union Territories) 


( tufr fa arf? Wx) 

IWt, 2 ^T, 1073 

IWT, 3TT 1603 — k wft h qflTO W11-IT ^rkrf'T'TTT. 
1046 (1946 RT 25) RT7T 3 ^ HTW TIl^Rl' 3H 

irqfq- ^ Rim, q^r^w. krpifm'arfr 

amrttf q^ snqrtr fcrwffar RRift f fartf si^itrr 

brefa iwtrt fro t, 

(«6) RTOfcr ^rk'6l (I860 ’W 46) Vi RHT 394 4 

3TtffcT 3rq7ry , 

Osr) ^3 “ (rd armr 4 inrir 

rt Tint tr«rhm TRiyiiie arft <t*it 

q^ wzrt ti yqrn 5^ 'w 44 Tiff 4 ^firr 

?WT RRT 3T^T ^ 3TWW i 

[ROTT 228/9/73-q-, 4 t. 41 21 

(21 


CABINET SECRET AWA'I 
(Department of Personnel & Admn* Reforms) 

New Delhi, the 2nd June, 1973 

S.O. 1663* — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 3 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 
(25 of 1946), the Central Government hereby specifies the 
following offences as the offences which arc to be investi- 
gated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely 

(a) Offences punishable under section 394 of the Indian 
Penal Code (45 of 1860); 

(b) attempts, ubetments and conspiracies in relation to, 
or in connection with, any offence mentioned in 
clause (a) and any other offence committed in tho 
course of the same transaction arising out of the same 
facts. 

[No. 228/9/73-AVD.U] 

aifavr 

RT- 3(1. 1064. — fqT'pft' ksjhr •jJVu-r WTtRT ilfvi I'h vj ^ ( 

1946 (1940 m 25) tmr e 4 rtr qfsrr, trrcr 5 ^ str- 
vmr (1) ^nr rtw trt rtr #i 4- tro^f 

•Rpf =im inft jnrfn ^q", Nttr 


31 GT/73 — 1 


2128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : TUNE 1 

1973 TlW ^ JTTF 'ronpr, *JMT Wf, tad I 
q^TT q? %ft ^TTTTirW ftrj! :p STT ?T s rp sTe^E^T <pV*T 

qft gffl q! wi Jr (ibgo qft 

tiRT 394) ^ an^T T r si c N' arrmrf wt ’TTTT-fcr ^fspiT 
(i860 qrr 45) ^ wtt 394 ^ «frfcFr ■Jrqrrsrf £ Fqtr j-t 
r-nrfcrr n^ioT, T^mr s V «riV amnrft.T^ g 7 'hN 1 

wr yff yfV^ TTft *rt 3F*r arnrsr q? 

3 R?hw $ ffTtr W7 WFPTT 4 *^Wf ^ 

^rfqrRrf itt sfrrWrqirF *gt «mw T'qirrc tt?t *F fciwrc 

CF?M 228/9/73-T. si 2] 
ft. TF. far, 3T47 ftf^TT 

order 

S.O. 1664. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 5, read with section 6, of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946) and all 
other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Central Govern- 
ment with the consent of the Government of the State of 
Bihar, hereby extends the powers and jurisdiction of the 
members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment to the 
whole of the State of Bihar for the investigation of offences 
punishable under section 394 of the Indian Penal Code 
(45 of I860) and also attempts, abetments and criminal cons- 
piracies in relation to, or in connection with, the said offences, 
and any other offence committed in the course of the 
same transaction in regard to the alleged theft of some 
valuable books on the night of 8/9 January, 1973 from 
the house of Shri Dhmpad Narain Singh of Village Bharat- 
pura, P. S. Bikram, District Patna. 

[No. 228/9 /73-AVD. IT] 

B. M. SINGH, Under Secy. 

ifhJW W-ir. ■ I I Mil ■HniJi HHB>uitin wtj»mi iii * ti -■* wflnnu 

ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 13th April, 1973 

S.O. 1665.— In pursuance of section 106 of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election 
Commission hereby publishes the judgement dated the 16th 
March, 1973, of the Court of the Judicial Commission, Goa, 
Daman and Diu in Election Petition No. 1 of 1971. 

JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER’S COURT 
GOA, DAMAN & DIU, PAN All 

Election Petition No. 1 of 1971 

G, Y. Bhandare — Petitioner. 

Vs* 

1. Erasmo de Jesus Jack Sequeira —Respondent 

Shri V. R, Bhandare, Advocate for the petitioner. 

Shri Porus Mehta Sr. Counsel with Shri Bernardo Reis, 
for the respondent, 

Panaji, the 16th March, 1973 
JUDGMENT 

This is a petition filed by Shri G, Y. Bhandare against 
the respondent No. 1 who is the returned candidate 
of the House of People from the Marmagoa Constituency, 
(he result of the election wherein was declared on the 10th 


1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


March, 1971. The petitioner was a candidate to the said 
election, The nomination of the respondent no. 1 was 
challenged by the petitioner before the Returning Officer, 
who over-ruled the objection of the petitioner, The peti- 
tioner now files this petition to have the election of the res- 
pondent no. 1 declared null and void on the grounds men- 
tioned in the petition. 


2. Shortly stated the case of the petitioner is as follows : — 
By Clause 2 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Citizenship) Order 
1962 (Hereinafter referred to as “the Order”), any person 
who was bom before the 20th December, 1961, in the terri- 
tory of Goa, Daman and Din was deemed to have become 
a citizen of India on that day provided that any such person 
shall not be deemed to have become a citizen of India as 
aforesaid if within one month from the date of the publica- 
tion of the “the Order” in the Official Gazette that person 
makes a declaration in writing to the Administrator of Goa, 
Daman and Diu or any authority specified by him in this 
behalf, choosing to retain the citizenship or the nationality 
which he had immediately before the 20th December, 1961. 
By a declaration in writing (Ex-P-3) made on 27-4-1962 the 
respondent no. 1 chose to maintain his Portuguese nationality 
and citizenship which he had immediately before the 20th 
December, 1961. (Exh. P. 3 shall hereinafter for brevity sake 
be called P. 3). On the 15th May, 1962, the respondent No. 1 
proceeded on a foreign travel on a Portuguese passport issued 
to him on or about the 25th June, 1958, by the former 
Portuguese Government of Goa, Daman and Diu. As his 
Portuguese passport was expiring on the 21st June. 1962, he 
applied to the Portuguese Consulate in London for a new 
Portuguese passport which was granted to him on the 18th 
June, 1962. The new Portuguese passport was valid up to 
the 17th June, 1964. Apart from the fact that the respondent 
No. 1 became a Portuguese citizen by virtue of P. 3, the 
respondent No. 1 also acquired Portuguese citizenship by 
renewing his Portuguese passport in the Portuguese Consulate 
in London on the 18th June, 1962. In October, 1962 the 
respondent No. 1 returned to Goa as an alien and applied 
for and obtained a residence permit to stay in India, which 
was renewed from time to time. Clause 3A of the Citizen- 
ship Rules, 1956 (hereinafter called “the Rules”) made under 
the Citizenship Act, 1955 (hereinafter called “tne Act”) pro- 
vides that where a person who has become an Indian citizen 
by virtue of the “the Order” holds a passport issued by the 
Government of any other country, the fact that he has not 
surrendered the said passport on or before the 19th January, 
1963, shall be conclusive proof of his having voluntarily ac- 
quired the citizenship of that country before that day. The 
respondent No. 1 deliberately and knowingly failed and neg- 
lected to surrender his Portuguese passport before the 19th 
January, 1963, and has thereby voluntarily acquired Portu- 
guese citizenship irrespective of the facts that he had done 
so by making the declaration P. 3. and of the renewal of 
Portuguese passport in London. Sometime in January, 1964, 
respondent No. 1 returned his Portuguese passport to the 
Special Adviser, Ministry of External Affairs, Panaji, and 
without saying anything more claimed Indian citizenship. 
Whilst claiming Indian citizenship respondent No. 1 sup- 
pressed the existence of P. 3. The Administration of Goa, 
Daman and Diu having P. 3 with them and knowing that 
the respondent No. 1 was not a citizen of India as a result 
of P. 3 and of the renewal of Portuguese passport and his 
failure to surrender it on or before 19-1-1963, for reasons 
best known to them, informed respondent No. 1 by the 
letter dated the 15th December, 1964, that he had pdma 
facie become a citizen of India by virtue of “the Order”. 
The said information was to the knowledge of respondent 
No. 3 who was later on dropped by the petitioner, false and 
erroneous and contrary to documentary evidence in their 
possession. In fact and in law respondent No. 1 was not a 
citizen of India under the “the Order” and even if he had 
become he had, to the knowledge of the third respondent 
ceased to be for reasons already stated. At any rate the said 
letter is no evidence that prima facie the respondent No. 1 
is a citizen of India. Therefore the respondent No. 1 was 
for the reasons previously stated not an elector as contem- 
plated under the Representation of the People Act 1951, and 
as he was disqualified from being chosen to fill a seat in 
Parliament, his election is void. 


3. The petitioner took objection to the nomination of the 
respondent No, 1 before the returning officer on the ground 
that he was not a citizen of India. The respondent No. 1 
produced before the Returning Officer two passports issued 
by the Chief Secretary of the Goa Government and the letter 
dated 27-7-1970 from the Government of India saying that 



Sec. 3 til)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : 


a certificate of citizenship under Section 13 of “the Act” 
was not necessary for him as the Government of Goa had 
already conveyed to him that he was, priiim fade, an Indian 
citizen. Based on the documents produced by the respon- 
dent No, 1, the returning officer overruled the objection of 
the petitioner. 

4. The petitioner prayed that the election of the respon 
dent No. 1 to the Lok Sabha from the Marmagoa Parlia- 
mentary Constituency, the result whereof was declared on 
10th March, 1971, be declared void. 

5. By his written statement the respondent No. 1 conti o- 
verted the material facts alleged by the petitioner. His case 
is as follows : — 

6. The petition should be dismissed in limini under Section 
86(1) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, as the 
copies accompanying the petition were not at all attested by 
the petitioner as required by Section 81(3) of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, or otherwise. This Court 
has no jurisdiction to entertain the petition as section 100 
Sub-section (1) Clause (a) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 is inapplicable to a candidate who after being 
duly elected has already taken on oath a scat in the House 
of the People. The decision as to whether a member of the 
House of People who has taken his seat was or was not an 
Indian citizen is a matter for the exclusive determination and 
decision of the President ol India under Article 103. If this 
construction is not accepted the provisions of Section 100(1) 
(a) of the Representation of the People Act 1951 would be 
ultra vires Articles 102 and 103 of the Constitution. 

7. The first proviso to paragraph 2 of “the Order” is ultra 
vires and in excess of the powers conferred by Section 7 of 
“the Act”. Government was not empowered to impose a 
condition that if a certain declaration is made within a cer- 
tain time a person shall not be deemed to be a citizen of 
India. The only power vested in the Central Government 
was to specify by a notified order persons who should be 
citizens of India by reasons of their connection with an an- 
nexed territory, 

8. The respondent No. 1 became a citizen of India under clause 
2 of “the Order” in view of the fact that he was born in Goa. 
The proviso to Clause 2 is not applicable to the respondent 
No. 1 as he made no legal and valid declaration on 27-4-1962 
(P.3) in as much as he did not in fact choose to rctuin his 
Portuguese nationality or citizenship. Moreover, P. 3 was 
made at the request of the then Special Adviser, Goa, for 
reasons which had no connection whatever with any intention 
to retain Portuguese nationality or citizenship or to loose Indian 
citizenship, P. 3 does not bind the respondent or effect the 
operation of the first part of Clause 2 in so far as it is 
applicable to the respondent No. 1. The only intention ot 
making the declaration (P. 3) was to retain the Portuguese 
passport and not to renounces Indian nationality or to main- 
tain Portuguese nationality, The said Special Advisei 
knowing of this intention conveyed lo the respondent No. 1 
that he could make the declaration on P. 3. In any case 
P, 3 was never intended to be or accepted or acted upon 
as a declaration made under the said proviso to Clause 2. 
The respondent wanted to go to Portugal on an Indian pass- 
port to settle some of his private affairs. He had a talk 
with Shri Handoo, the then Special Adviser to the Military 
Governor of Goa, Daman and Din, about his trip to Portu- 
gal. Shri Handoo thought of taking advantage of the jour- 
ney of the respondent No. 1 to Portugal under some osten- 
sible reason and entrusted the respondent No. 1 with a secret 
mission. Shri Handoo therefore advised the respondent not 
to go on an Indian passport to avoid attracting attention and 
consequent trouble at the Portuguese end and requested res- 
pondent No. 1 to retain his Portuguese passport and to com- 
ply with other formalities for doing so. As respondent No. 1 
was apprehensive about the possible loss of his Indian citi- 
zenship which he claimed to possess by birth, Handoo dic- 
tated to him the draft of u letter which respondent No. 1 
was supposed to address to him. Respondent No. 1 took 
the draft home, typed the letter to Handoo (Exh. P,4) and 
also another declared on dated 27-4-62 addressed to the 
Senior Superintendent of Police (Exh. R, 5) stating that he 
wished to retain his Portuguese passport. He uent to ihe 
Police Station and handed over the declaration, R. 5. The 
S.S.P. glanced at R. 5, returned it to respondent No. 1 and 
asked him to make a declaration in the prescribed form. 
Respondent No. 1 told the S.S.P, that he had been sent by 


JUNE 16, 1973/JYA1STHA 26, 1895 2129 


Handoo and the S.S.P. nodded his assent, and told respon- 
dent No. 1 that Handoo had telephoned to him regarding 
tho case of respondent No. 1, He signed the declaration 
P. 3 as a formality and then registered his passport in the 
Police in the prescribed form and went to Handoo to hand 
over to him the letter P. 4, He showed R. 5. to Handoo and 
told him that the Police would not accept it. Handoo told 
him that the signing of a prescribed form was the formality 
required to keep up the pretence that he was a Portuguese 
citizen so that his secret mission might not be jeopardized. 
An exit and re-entry permit was granted to respondent No. 1 
by the Special Officer, Ministry of External Affairs, Panaji, 
on 1-5-1962 mentioning therein that this was a special case. 
Respondent No. 1 complied with all the formalities only with 
the intention of retaining temporarily the Portuguese pass- 
port and thinking that his citizenship could in no way be 
affected, and without intending to retain Portuguese citizen- 
ship or nationality. No member of the family of the res- 
pondent No. 1 had retained Portuguese citizenship. 


9. Respondent No. 1 went to London where he had to 
renew his Portuguese passport. From London he contacted 
friends in Portugal and was advised not to enter Portugal, 
1-Ic therefore did not go to Portugal. 

10. On his return to India he reported to Handoo and told 
him that he would be able to make a trip to Portugal, later. 
Handoo then advised him to continue to retain the Portu- 
guese passport and to comply with the necessary formalities 
and take due precautions. Shri Handoo was at all times 
aware that the respondent No. 1 never in' ended to do any 
act to jeopardize his Indian citizenship and Handoo himself 
expressed to the respondent the Governments views that the 
respondent continued to be an Indian citizen. Respondent 
No. 1 registered his passport, applied for residence permit, 
and kept renewing it from time to time merely to comply 
with formalities, When Clause 3 A was inserted in Schedule 
III to “the Rules”, respondent No, 1 addressed the letter R, 6 
mentioning specifically the authorisation of 1-5-1962 and 
that he was writing R. 6 to enable him to obtain and 
India;i passport in due course. 


IE He surrendered his Portuguese passport to the Special 
Adviser, M.E.A. on 15-1-1964. On 25-4-1964 the Registration 
Officer threatened to prosecute respondent No. 1 for not extern 
ding his stay, Respondent No. 1 replied that he had surren- 
dered his passport. The Registration Officer insisted with 
respondent No. 1 that permission to stay had to be extended. 
On 1-5-1964 respondent No, 1 wrote .o the Special Officer 
M.E.A. asking him to inform the Registration Officer that he 
was an Indian citizen who was holding a Portuguese passport 
only tempoi arily. On 18-5-1964 respondent No. 1 was called 
by the Under Secretary, Home Department, Government of 
Goa, The respondent No, 1 met the Under Secretary. On 
3-6-1964 respondent No, 1 wrote to the Under Secretary 
giving him some date required by him ard requesting him 
to arrange for the respondents Indian citizenship to be 
accepted. On 14-7-1964 the S.S.P. called impendent No. 1 to 
his office with a birth certificate to ihou that respondent 
No. 1 was a Goan by birth. In reply to his application dated 
3-6-1964 respondent No. 1 received the Utter Exh. P. 41 
dated 15-12-1964 whereby the Under Secretary, Goa Govern- 
ment, informed him that he was directed to state that respon- 
dent No. 1 had prima facie become a citizen of India by 
virtue of “the Order”. 


12. When in the year 1969 the question of his citizenship 
was again raised by the Government of Goa and referred 
(o th“ G( vernment of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, the 
Joint Secretary Government of India, wrote to respondent No. 
1 that the matter had been reconsidered and treated as closed. 
The respondent No. 1 then requested the Govenment of 
India to issue to him a certificate under section 13 of 
“the Act”. After considering the matter the Joint Secretary, 
Government of India, M. H. A. advised the respondent No. 
1 that since the Goa Administration had, in their letter 
dated 15-12-1964 OP. 41) already informed the respondent 
h ; hid pritn^ facie become a citizen of India by virtue 
of “the Order” the necessity of a certificate under Section 
13 of “the Act" did not arise. In any event, having regard 
to the facts and circumstances in which the purported declara- 
tion on P 3 was made, Exh. P, 52 is in fact and in law a 
certificate under the said Section and must bo construed to 
be so. Tn this view of the matter, a duly authorised officer 



2130 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAIS1HA 26, 1895 


of the Central Government having adopted and accepted 
the certificate P. 41, P. 41 must be constituted as having the 
same effect as a certificate under Section 13 of “the Act”. 
There is therefore conclusive evidence that the respondent 
No. 1 is a citizen of India on and from 1 5-12-1964 or at 
least from 27-7-1970. 

13. In law the natural status of a subject of an annexed 
territory is a matter for the State and the Courts of law 
can have no say in the matter. The case must therefore be 
referred to the Government for its decision under “the 
Act". 

14. The fact that lespondent No. 1 renewed his Portu- 
guese passpoit in 1962 or did not surrender it before 
15- IT 963 has no relevancy at all, not only in view of the 
facts mentioned above, but also because the said passport 
was returned and an Indian passport was obtained in 1965 
and another Indian passpott was obtained in 1970. 

15. This court has no jurisdiction to decide matters re- 
garding acquisition of foieign citizenship by an Indian 
national on account of his omission to act in accordance 
with Rule A of "the Rules”. In any event, Rules 3A is 
ultra vires and in excess of the powers conferred on Gov- 
ernment by Section 18 of “the Act” because the same is a 
rule of substantive law' and not a rule of evidence, 

16. On the basis of the case set up by the respondent 
No. 1 as narrated by me in the precceding paragraphs, the 
respondent No. 1 prayed that the petition be dismissed in 

IJminc* 

17. The case of the Government of India, the respondent 
No, 3 in this petition was a s follows ; — 

18. Respondent No. 1 became a citizen on 20th December, 
1961 and is still a citizen of India. P, 3 was not voluntarily 
signed by respondent. No. 1 as it was signed by him on ad- 
vice and at the instance of the then Special Adviser, Goa, 
(Shri Handoo) acting on behalf of respondent No. 3. P. 3 
does not in any way affect the status of Indian citizenship 
acquired by respondent No, 1 by virtue of the provisions 
of “the Order 1 '. Respondent No, 1 did not continue to be 
a Portuguese national on account of P. 3. Having regard 
to the circumstances under which P. 3 was signed, P, 3 is 
not a declaration contemplated by the proviso to "the order”. 
The Special Officer, M.E.A. issued to respondent No. 1 a 
special authorisation permitting respondent No. 1 to go to 
U.K. and Portugal on his Portuguese passport and return 
to India within a period of 6 months. After respondent No. 1 
returned to India residential permits were granted to him 
from time to time^with a view to avoiding any complications 
as respondent No. 1 held a Portuguese passport for reasons 
connected with the affairs of State and the said permits w'ere 
granted on behalf of respondent No. 3 with a view not to 
embarrass respondent No. 1 Respondent No. 1, did not cease 
to be an Indian citizen from June, 1962 or later on at any 
time. Respondent No. 1 returned his Portuguese passpoit to 
the Special Officer, ME, A., Panaji, in January, 1964, and 
sought recognition of his Indian citizenship. He did not 
apply for his registration as a citizen of Tndia under "the 
Act”, Respondent No. 1 was treated as a citizen of India 
as from 20th December, 1961. Respondent No. 1 did not 
commit acts sufficient to bring about the termination of his 
Indian citizenship. Respondent No. 1 was an elector under 
the Representation of People Act, 1951. The passports issued 
to the respondent No. 1 aic of relevance to this case, 

19. These in short are the cases of the petitioner, the 
respondent No. 1 and the respondent No. 3. 

20. On these pleadings, my learned predecessor framed 
on 16-9-1971 the following issues : — 

1. Hag this Court jurisdiction to entertain the election 

petition? 

2. Is the petitioner a citizen of Tndia? 

3. Did the petitioner comply with the provisions of 

Section 81 (3) of the Representation of People Act 
1951 and if not is the petition fit to be dismissed 
under Section 86(1) of that Act? 

4. Whether the first proviso to Para 2 of Ibc Goa, 

Daman and Diu (Citizenship) Order 1962 is ultru 
vires and In excess of the powers conferred 
Section 7 of the Citizenship Act 1955? 


[Part II— 


5. Was the first respondent disqualified to be chosen as 

member of the Lok Sabha in March, 1971 for the 
reasons stated by the petitioner in the election 
petition? 

6. To what relief? 

The parties raised no objection as to the framing of these 
issues. Issues Nos. 1, 3 and 4 were set up for being heard 
as preliminary issues. My learned predecessor also decided 
that if the parties were prepared to adduce evidence about 
issue No. 2, that issue also would be decided alongwith 
issues Nos, 1, 3 and 4. My learned predecessor by his order 
dated 5th October* 1971, decided issues Nos. 1, 2 and 4, 
He did not decide issue No. 3 because the parties wished 
to adduce evidence regarding that issue. Issues Nos. 1 and 
2 were decided in the affirmative, in favour of the petitioner 
and issue No. 4 was decided in the negative, also in favour 
of the petitioner. The issues that fall for my determination, 
therefore, are the issues Nos. 3, 5 and 6. 

21. The fust of these issues is regaiding the presentation 

of the petition. The petition was handed over to the Regis- 
tiar on 20th April, 1971. The Rcgistiar made an endorse- 
ment on the petition that the petition was presented on that 
day. The roznama shows that when the petition was handed 
over to the Registrar copies of the petition had not been 
attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be 
true copies of the petition as required by Section 81(3). The 
petition was not registered on that day. Rule 5 made by 
this Court in regard to election petitions under the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 195L provides that immediately 
after the petition is presented the Registrar shall endorse 
thereon the date of presentation and shall enter it in a special 
register maintained for the registration of the election peti- 
tions. This rule was not fully complied with by the Regis- 
trar. When the petition was handed over to him by the 
petitioner he made an endorsement therein, but did not 

register the petition in the special register Before suen 

registration was done the petitioner attested all copies to be 
true copies of the petition on 23-4-1971, On 24-4-1971 the 
petition was legistered in the special register maintained for 
the registration of election petitions. 

22. In the roznama there is an entry made by the Superin- 

tendent that the petitioner had not attested the copies as true 
copies. The petitioner has stated in the course of his evi- 
dence that he had attested the copies but that he tyid not 
attested the annexures and that the annexures were merely 
signed by him, It is possible that the Superintendent has 

made a mistake due to oversight. However, I have to go by 

records and I have to accept the entry in the roznama made 
by the Superintendent in preference to the deposition of the 
petitioner. The entry made by the Superintendent reads as 
follows ; — 

“The copies for the respondents are not attested by the 
petitioner under his own signature to be true copies 
of the petition”. 

From this entry all that can be concluded is that the copies 
of the petition were not attested but it cannot be said from 
that entry that the copies of the petition were not even 
signed by the petitioner. The respondent No. 1 has not 
stated that the petitioner had not signed the copies when the 
petition was presented. The case of the respondent No. 1 
is that the petition was not attested. An attestation means 
ccitifying a copy to be true and signing it. According to the 
lespondent No. 1 therefore both these things were missing. 
The burden lies on the respondent No. 1 to prove his con- 
tention and as I have said there is no proof that the peti- 
tioner had not even signed the copies of the petition though 
there is proof that he had not attested them. In the normal 
course I am to presume that the copies of the petition had 
been duly signed. ^ There is in addition to this the fact that 
T have already pointed out, that even attestation was done be- 
fore the registration of the petition. Shri Bh an da re relies 
on ‘Harish Chandra v. Triloke Singh’ ATR 1957 SC 444 and 
on ‘Dr. Anup Singh v. Abdul Ghan}* ATR 1965 SC 815. In 
the first of these cases an amendment was allowed permitting 
a new ground to be raised after the petition was filed and 
Shri Bhandare aigucs that if an amendment of that nature 
was allowed there is no reason why the petitioner should not 
be allowed to attest the conics of the petition after it was 
filed but before it was registered In the second decision 
on which Shri Bandarc relies, copies of the petition merely 
signed but not attested and served on the opposite party 



2131 


Sec. 3(ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


were considered substantial compliance with the provisions of 
Section 81(3) of the Representation of the People Act. It 
appears to mo that this decision of the Supreme Court clinches 
the issue. There has been substantial compliance with the 
provisions of Section 81(3) in the present case and 1 answer 
the issue No. 3 in the affirmative in favour of the petitioner. 

23. I shall now proceed to consider the issue No. 5, 

24. This issue is, whether the respondent No. 1 wag an 
Indian Citizen at the time of the Election. In this regard 
the contention of both the parties are two-fold. The peti- 
tioner contends that the respondent No. 1 never acquired 
Indian Citizenship and always continued to be a Portuguese 
citizen in view of the proviso to clause (2) to “the Order” 
and that assuming that he did acquire Indian citizenship 
under “the Order”, he lost it in June. 1962 when he renewed 
hia Portuguese Passport or in any event od 19-1-1963 when 
he failed to surrender his Portuguese passport. The conten- 
tions of the respondent No. 1 are that the respondent No. 1 
was an Indian citizen by virtue of “the Order”, and that, though 
the second question raised by the petition regarding the loss 
of citizenship is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Cen- 
tral Government and not of this Court, this Court should 
not, in the event of answering his first contention in the 
affirmative, refer the matter to the Government of India be- 
cause there is ample evidence on record to show that the 
Government of India has already answered that question. 

25. The respondent No. I had raised a preliminary objec- 
tion regarding the jurisdiction of this Court. He contended 
that assuming P. 3 intentionally made, the legal effect of P. 3 
would be that the respondent No. 1 had, on account of it 
lost his Indian citizenship which he had acquired on the 
coming into force of “the Order”. The argument of Shri Porus 
Mehta on behalf of the respondent No. 1 was that the respon- 
dent No. 1 became an Indian citizen on the day “the Order” 
was published and ceased so to be on the day he executed 
P. 3, if at all P. 3 was to be given any value in law, I have 
disposed of this preliminary point by my order dated 5-1-72 
and I held that in case P. 3 was to have its legal effect the 
respondent No. 1 had never acquired Indian citizenship. 

26. The petitioner also raised a preliminary objection 
regarding P, 3, namely, that the respondent No. 1 should 
not be allowed to lead any evidence to show that P. 3 was 
not intentionally executed by the respondent No. I. This 

reliminary contention raised by the petitioner based on 
ectlons 90, 92 and 94 of the Indian Evidence Act, was 
rejected by me by my order dated 5-1-72. 

27. It is contended by the petitioner that the execution of 
P. 3 is a complete proof that the respondent No. 1 never 
became an Indian Citizen, and that even if it is assumed 
without admitting that P. 3 was not intentionally executed 
by the respondent No. 1, its legal implication and effect can- 
not be nullified even by the Government of India because 
the Government of India has no power to bypass the provi- 
sions of law, 

28. The contention of the respondent No, 1 is that he 
did not sign P.3 voluntarily, but signed it at the instance 
of the Government of India with the purpose of doing 
certain work in connection with the affairs of State and 
that therefore P.3 having been signed without the intention 
of retaining the Portuguese citizenship, it is ab inicio, null 
and void and without any legal effect. 

29. The evidence which I have to consider consists of the 
depositions of the petitioner, the documents filed by the 
petitioner and the respondent No. 1, the evidence of the res- 
pondent No. 1 and the evidence of the two witnesses of 
the respondent No. 1 Shri Handoo, the Special Adviser to 
the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu at the relevant 
time and Shri Patel, the Joint Secretary, Government of 
India, Ministry of Home Affairs. 

30. Before I proceed to consider (his evidence I will 
decide the questions which were raised by the petit ionei 
regarding the genuineness of R.5 and R.6, All (he other 
documents have been admitted without any controversy. 

.31. R* 5 is a declaration by respondent No. 1 that he 
wished to retain Portuguese passport. It is contended by 
the petitioner that it was not at all necessary for respondent 
No. 1 to make that declaration because even Indian citizens 
could keep Portuguese Passports until clause 3A was inserted 


JUNE 16, 1 973/JYA1SI HA 26, 1895 


in the Schedule III to the Citizenship Rules 1956, requiring 
the surrender of such passports on or before 19-1-63* It 
must however be remembered that in the present case accord- 
ing to the case of respondent No, l be wanted to go to 
Portugal on an Indian passport and he was told by Handoo 
to go on a Portuguese passport. He stated that he thought 
that the instructions given by Handoo to him weie to do 
the needful to retain the Portuguese passport and to register 
it, and that he was asked to sign J\ 3 by the Registration 
Officer much against his wish and his expectation, It Is 
possible therefore, that the respondent No. 1 thought that 
he had to make a declaration like R. 5 and not like P, 3 
for the purpose of travelling abroad on a Portuguese passport, 
The petitioner further contends that R. 5 was preserved for 
the abnormally long period of 10 yeais; that the presence 
of the photostat copy of R. 5 in the record of the Government 
of India could not be explained; that though R. 5 and P. 4 
were written one after another by the respondent No. 1 in 
his office, the papers used for these documents were different 
and the signatures on each of them were also different; that 
the Senior Superintendent of Police was not examined 
regarding R. 5 and that R. 5 was nor mentioned in the 
voluminous correspondence between the respondent No, 1 
and the Goa Government or between the Goa Government, 
and Delhi or between the respondent No. 1 and Delhi. 
Unfortunately, all these facts which according to the peti- 
tioner* cast a suspicion about the genuineness of R. 5 , were 
not put to the respondent No. 1 in the course of the cross- 
examination nor were any suggestions made to him in 
that regard. The question of the respondent No, l’s 
citizenship was being agitated up to the end of 1964 and 
it was re-raised in 1969, It can theieforc be said that 
R. 5 was kept for about 5 years, but not for 10 years, It 
was not suggested to the respondent No. 1 that the photostat 
copy of R, 5 was surreptitiously placed on Government 
records, Such suggestion was made to Patel but was 
repelled by him. It is true that the papers used for P. 4 
and R. 5 were different, but whereas R. 5 was a declaration, 
P. 4 was a letter. The signatures in these two documents 
vary. I must agree with the petitioner that in the normal 
course wo could expect the respondent No. 1 to sign in the 
same manner on R. 5 and P. 4. It is also true that R. 5 
was not mentioned In the various letters written in connec- 
tion with the citizenship of the respondent No. 1. Handoo 
was shown R. 5 and he admitted that the respondent No, 1 
showed R. 5 to him on 27-4-62 and that the respondent 
No. 1 told him that he had produced R, 5 to the Senior 
Superintendent of Police in the flist instance, but that the 
Senior Superintendent of Police did not accept it. and in 
its place he asked the respondent No, 1 to sign P, 3; that 
he told the respondent No. 1 that P. 3 was the usual form 
and that R. 5 could not be accepted. Be that as it may, 
R. 5 is not a document vital to the outcome of the case. 

32 ; R. 6 is the letter dated 18-1-63 addressed to the 
Special Officer, by respondent No, 1 informing him that the 
respondent No, 1 had left India on a Portuguese passport 
bearing No. 3093/62 on 15-5-62 and that he had to retain 
it for some time more for giving abroad, The respondent 
No. 1 further states in R, 6 that R. 6 is written on account 
of the notification inserting clause 3A in Schedule III to 
the Rules and for the purpose of enabling the lespondent 
No, 1 to obtain his Indian Passport in due caurse. It is 
argued by the petitioner that this letter was not at all 

necessary. I do not see how this is so. The case of the 
respondent No, 1 was_ that he was an Indian citizen not- 
withstanding the retention of the Portuguese passport and 
clause 3 A was coming on the way of his claim to Indian 
citizenship. In this connection it must he lecalled that 
according to the respondent No. 1 P. 3 was not made 
voluntarily and had no legal effect. The respondent No. 1 
has stated that he had sent R, 6 to the Special Officer and 

the presumption arises that in due course of business the 

Special Officer did receive R. 6. The argument of the 

petitioner that no mention, is made of R 6 in the inter- 
Government for Government correspondence, that R, 6 was 
received, is of no great relevance. In hi& letter dated 
15-1-64 (P. 24) addressed to the Special Officer, the respon- 
dent No. 1 invited the attention of the Special Officer to 
R. 6 and the Special Officer did not deny that R. 6 was 
received by him. In the statement made to the police by 
the respondent No. 1, the respondent No. 1 brought to the 
notice of the police that he had written R. 6 to the Special 
Officer on 18-1-63. This fact is reproduced by the Senior 
Superintendent of Police in his letter dated 22-7-64 (Exh. 
P. 38) addressed to the Special Officer. In his letter dated 
24-8-64 (Exh. P. 39) written by the Chief Secretary to the 



2132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/J YA1STHA 26, 1895 |Part II— 


Under Secretary, Government of India, the Chief Secretary 
ako reproduced the fact that the respondent No. 1 had 
stated that he had written K. 6 to the Special Officer 1 
cannot accept the argument of the petitioner that the 
reference made to R. 6 in various letters, is made because 
in his letter dated 3-6-64 (Exh. P. 33) to the Under Secretary, 
Home Department, Panaji, the respondent No. 1 had trans- 
cribed the body of R. 6. The transcription of R. 6 does 
not contain the name of the person to whom the letter was 
addressed or the date or the signature of the addressor. 
The reference made to R. 6 by various officers of the 
Government is not to the transcript of R. 6 but to a copy 
of R. 6, In the circumstances it is difficult for me to hold 
that R. 6 was never written and was a letter concocted for 
the purpose of supporting the case of the respondent No. 1. 

33. The first part of Issue No. 3 which T have to consider 
is whether the respondent No. 1 travelled abroad on a 
Portuguese Passport at the request of Shri Handoo on a 
secret mission connected with the affairs of the State. I 
will, therefore, discuss first the question of the secret mission. 

34. The respondent No. 1 has stated that whilst he was a 
student he had taken part in the struggle for the Liberation 
of Goa; that he used to propagate the idea of the liberation 
of Goa that he collected secret information between 
1954 — 57 and gave this information to Shri Ashok Mehta 
on behalf of the Government of India, in Bombay; that he 
collected information in Goa whilst he was a student in 
Bombay because he was asked to do so. Some support to 
these statements of the respondent No. 1 is found in the 
evidence of Handoo who slated that he camo in contact 
with the respondent No. 1 for the first time in 1958 or 
1959 in Bombay at the residence of Mr, Mehta. Handoo 
also stated that on the information received by him he found 
the respondent No. 1 reliable enough to be entrusted with 
some secret mission. 

35. The respondent No. 1 stated that after the liberation 
he met Handoo and told him that he wanted to go to 
Portugal on an Indian passport for settling some private 
affair with a Portuguese lady; that on 10th April, 1962 he 
handed over the Portuguese passport that he was then 
holding, to Handoo; that when he met Handoo on 27-4-62, 
Handoo suggested to him to go on a Portuguese passport 
to do some important work for the Government of India; 
that when he received the instructions from Handoo, he 
made it clear to Handoo that he was an Indian citizen and 
wished to remain an Indian citizen; that Handoo assured 
him that his travelling on a Portuguese Passport would in 
no way jeopardize hts Indian citizenship and that it was 
necessary that he should travel on a Portuguese passport to 
avoid attracting attention of the Portuguese and of the public 
in order that the secret mission on which he was to travel 
might be performed smoothly and that for this purpose he 
had to keep the pretence that he was a Portuguese citizen 
in every way. This statement made by the respondent No. 1 
in his examination-in-chief was maintained throughout the 
cross-examination and any suggestion that the statement was 
false was stoutly repelled by the respondent No. 1. Shri 
Handoo also substantially supported the statement when he 
deposed that he had a meeting with the respondent No, 1 
sometime in April, 1962; that the respondent No. 1 expressed 
to him his desire to go to Portugal on an Indian passport 
with a view to solve his entanglement with a white 
Portuguese lady; that as he desired to use the respondent 
No. 1 he suggested that the respondent No. 1 should retain 
his Portuguese passport and that the respondent No. 1 
would be issued an Indian passport when the occasion arose. 
Handoo also stated that he had decided to send the respon- 
dent No. 1 on a secret mission connected with the affairs of 
the State because, (i) the respondent No. 1 had a Portuguese 
passport, (ii) he had an ostensible reason to visit Portugal, 
which would not attract the attention of the Portuguese and 
the public to the secret mission and (iii) respondent No. 1 
was a trustworthy and loyal Indian citizen. 

36. P. 3 is the main stay of the evidence on which the 
petitioner relies in support of his case. This document is 
a declaration in a prescribed form which persons of Goan 
origin desiring to retain Portuguese citizenship under the 
proviso to Clause 2 of “the Order”, had to fill up and sign. 
Respondent No. 1 states that after the talk lie had with 
Handoo regarding; hjs desire to tnivcl on an Indian passport 
and the advice given by Handoo to travel on a Portuguese 
passport for reasons already stated, respondent No. 1 saw 


Handoo on 27-4-1962; that Handoo returned to him the 
Portuguese Passport given to Handoo on 10-4-1962 and 
asked him to get it registered at the Police; that Handoo 
told him that he would have to make a declaration to the 

5.5. P. to retain that Portuguese passport; that Handoo said 
that he would intimate the S.S.P. about it; that Handoo also 
dictated the No. 1 went to his office, typed the declaration 
R. 5 and letter P. 4 and thereafter proceeded to the Police 
Station; that he handed over the declaration R, 5 to the 

5.5. P, , the S.S.P. glanced at it, and returned it to him 
and instead, made him fill in and sign P. 3. and then sent 
him to the section concerned to get his passport registered; 
that he got his passport registered and went to Handoo, 
gave him P. 4 and showed him R. 5; that he told Handoo 
that the S.S.P. made him sign a form on Handoo’s instruc- 
tions; that he inquired what that form was and why he had 
been made to sign that form instead of R, 5; that Handoo 
told him that that was the form that had to be signed for a 
Portuguese to leave the country; that he told Handoo that 
he was an Indian citizen and that he had made it quite clear 
to him that he wished to remain an Indian citizen; that 
Handoo told him that he had to make him sign the form as 
a formality to do the work that he had entrusted him to 
do on behalf of the Government of India and that the 
signing of the form would not in any way affect his Indian 
citizenship; that Handoo said that anything out of the 
ordinary would attract attention and that in order to do 
the work that he had entrusted him, he had to make him 
keep up the pretence of being a Portuguese citizen in every 
way; that P. 3 was not signed voluntarily but was signed 
at the instance of Handoo for reasons connected with affairs 
of State and not to renounce his Indian citizenship or retain 
Portuguese citizenship; that his only intention in signing 
P, 3 was to retain a Portuguese passport and not to lose 
Indian citizenship or to retain or acquire Portuguese citizen^ 
ship, In cross-examination respondent No. 1 stated that the 
ostensible reason why he retained a Portuguese passport was 
that he wanted to visit Portugal for personal reasons and 
was going with the permission of the Government, but that 
the real reason for retaining the Portuguese Passport was an 
assignment £iven to him in official confidence of which the 
details are in secret files of the Government; that he came 
to know of “the Order” in its entirely when ho saw Handoo 
and asked him what P. 3 was; that it was at that moment 
that he read “the Order” for the first time in Hindoo's 
office and that he had made it clear to Handoo around the 
middle of March 1962 that he wished to remain an Indian 
citizen; that P. 3 was not signed in pursuance ot “the Order” 
but merely to keep a pretence; that the signing of the form 
laised no implications in his case because he did not sign 
the form voluntarily; that he received an assurance from 
Handoo before he signed the form and also thereafter and 
that had he not received such assurance after he signed the 
form he would have proceded further in the matter; that 
the assurance was not given particularly with reference to 
the form but generally, that his citizenship would not be 
jeopardized; that when Handoo told him that anything out 
of the ordinary would attract attention, Handoo meant by 
the word “attention" the attention of the public and that 
the attention of the public should be avoided so that he 
might not land into complications with regard to the work 
with which he was entrusted, which work was of secret 
nature; that in the meeting in the evening of 27-4-1962 
Handoo told him to keep the pretence of being a Portuguese 
citizen in every way; that Handoo told him to go directly 
to Portugal but thereafter he told hfm to go first to London. 
In the course of his cross-examination he stated that he 
considered himself bound to sign P. 3 because of the agree- 
ment between Handoo and him to do the work, though he 
was not to receive any consideration for the work and he 
was willing to do the work for the Government; that he 
consented to follow Handoo’s instructions on the assurance 
that his citizenship of India would in no way be jeopardized. 
To a suggestion made by Shri Bhandare in this regard, res- 
pondent No. 1 replied that it wfts true that he had agreed 
to do the secret work solely to serve the country. 

37. Handoo has also deposed as to the circumstances under 
which P. 3 was signed by respondent No. 1. He has stated 
that respondent No. 1 retained his Portuguese passport rill 
such time ns he had asked respondent No 1 to relinquish it; 
that be asked the respondent No. I to relinquish it sometime 
in December 1963 or January 1964; that he asked respon- 
dent No. 1 to retain the Portuguese passport in order rhat 
he could comply with the assignment that was given to him; 
that he took advantage of the fact of the entanglement of 
respondent No. 1 with a Portuguese lady to give him a top 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


secret assignment under this cover. In the cross-examination 
Shri Handoo stated that respondent No. 1 told him that he 
was asked by the S.S.P. to sign the printed form of declara- 
tion which is the usual form; that he told respondent No. 1 
that it was necessary to sign the usual form as demanded by 
the S.S.P. 

38. It is contended by the petitioner that a plain rending 
of P. 3 conveys a clear intention on the part of resnondent 
No. 1 to retain Portuguese citizenship and that therefore 
P. 3 would be conclusive and unrebuttablc proof that res- 
pondent No. 1 Intentionally retained his Portuguese citizen- 
ship, It is further contended by him that there was no 
element ot threat or coercion or misrepresentation or fraud 
or undue influence in regard to the signing of P. 3. Shri 
Bhandare argues that unless respondent No. 1 could show 
that he signed P, 3 in performance of a legal duty the legal 
effect of P. 3 should follow. This question does not 
survive in view of my order dated 5-1-1972 wherein I held 
that evidence regarding the fact that the declaration was 
made by respondent No. 1 without mens dcclarandi, could 
be led. If respondent No. 1 had no intention to execute 
P. 3 and if he had executed it just to keep up a pretence, 
as is alleged by him, P. 3 would have no legal effect. Shri 
Bhandare relies on 'Abdul Sal am v, Union of India and 
Another’ A.I.R. 1969 all. 223. In that case Abdul Salam, 
the plaintiff appellant migrated to Pakistan in 1950. He 
remained there for 5 years. In 1955 when he received news 
that his father was seriously ill and almost on his death bed 
he felt compelled to obtain a Pakistani passport and to return 
to India. He overstayed in India and was served with a 
notice to leave the country. He instituted legal proceedings 
to restrain the Government from deporting him. It wan 
held by the Allahabad High Court that the desire to be 
present at a particular place does not create any legal obliga- 
tion to be present there and that therefore it could not be 
said that the passport was not voluntarily obtained It 
seems to me that it is not difficult to distinguish Abdul Siam's 
case from the present one. Abdul Salam obtained a 
Pakistani passport after staying in Pakistan for 5 years, and 
returned to India for purely personal reasons. In the case 
before me it is contended by the respondent No. 1 that when 
he wanted to go to Portugal for personal reasons he wanted 
to go on an Indian passport and that he retained the 
Portuguese passport purely because he was asked to do so 
to carry out a lop secret assignment In connection with 
affairs of State. According to the respondent No. 1 his 
desire to ke^p the Portuguese passport was therefore not 
for personal reasons but for reasons of interest of State. 
The desire was prompted by the legal obligation that he 
had to discharge due to the undertaking given to Handoo 
to perform the secret mission. It appears to me that when 
someone offers to perform some task in relation to affairs 
of State whatever he does towards the performance of that 
task is done under an implied legal obligation which flows 
from the undertaking given by him to the State, 

39. The other arguments advanced by Shri. Bhandare 
regarding the volition of respondent No. 1 to sign P. 3 are; 
that Handoo does not corroborate that he had given any 
instructions either to respondent No. 1 or to S.S.P. in the 
matter of execution of P. 3; that the “pretence of 
nationality”, “affairs of State” and “secret mission” are 
absent in the written statement of respondent No. 1; that 
Handoo did not give to respondent No. 1 a blanket assurance 
regarding the safeguard of Indian nationality as is alleged by 
respondent No. 1 does not state that the advice to execute 
when he came to know about the implications of having 
signed P. 3; that the assurance of Handoo in relation to 
citizenship is absent in the written statement; that Handoo 
does not corroborate any discussion with resnondent No. 1 
in the matter of assurance of citizenship rights; that the 
respondent No. 1 docs not state that the advice to excute 
P> 3 was Included in the instructions given to him; that it 
was not necessary to sign P. 3 to retain Portuguese passport 
to visit Portugal: and that Handoo did not have a conversa- 
tion with the S.S.P. regarding P. 3, These arguments are 
not substantially borne by the record or are otherwise 
incorrect. It is true that P. 3 need not be signed merely to 
retain Portuguese passport, but it had to be signed if respon- 
dent No, 1 was to travel on that passport. This position 
had eventually to be admitted by Shri Bhandari. 

40. I have discussed the oral evidence of the witnesses 
regarding the intention of respondent No. 1 in signing P. 3, 
The main contention of respondent No. 1 is that it was 
signed unintentionally and merely to keep up a pretence 


JUNE 16, 1973/JYATSTHA 26, 1895 2133 


that he was a Portuguese citizen so that the secret mission 
connected with affairs of State might be fulfilled. The 
existence of the secret mission itself was strongly challenged 
by the petitioner. The petitioner’s case is that the secret 
mission is a concoction made by the respondent No. 1 and 
the Government of India acting in collusion. I have already 
narrated generally the evidence about the assignment of the 
secret mission. I am now going to discuss the oral evidence 
regarding the secret mission, and the instructions alleged to 
have been given regarding that mission. 


41. Respondent No. 1 has stated in the course of his long , 
cross-examination on this point, that instructions regarding 
the secret mission were being given to him by Handoo from 
time to time; that whilst giving instructions he was usually 
shown a note that had been written and that he was allowed 
to take notes from those notes, if he so required; that his 
secret mission was to be carried out in Portugal and also 
in other countries. It was suggested to respondent No. 1 
hy Shri Bhandare that the instructions regarding the work 
for Government were given to respondent No. 1 by Handoo 
in the evening of 27*4-1962, Respondent No. 1 denied 

that suggestion and stated that they were given partly earlier 
and partly later and that the instructions were received by 
him until the day he left. Respondent No. 1 stated that 
some of the countries that he visited were Pakistan, 

England, France, Denmark, Germany, United States and 
Portugal. Later on he corrected himself and stated that he 
did not visit Portugal. It was argued by Shri Bhandare 

that Handoo also stated that respondent No. 1 had visited 
Portugal when he was enumerating the countries which res- 
pondent No. 1 visited whilst abroad and that later on 

Handoo also corrected himself and said that respondent 
No. 1 had not visited Portugal. Shri Bhandare contends 
that this lapse on the part of both the witnesses was not 
casual. He however did not clearly state that it was the 
petitioner’s case that respondent No. 1 did visit Portugal 
during his trip abroad. If the case of the petitioner was in 
fact that Portugal was visited, a suggestion would have been 
made to these two witnesses that respondent No, 1 visited 
Portugal. The petitioner could also summon the respondents 
to produce the Portugues passport bearing No. 3093/62 
which the respondent No. 1 surrendered to the Special 
Officer on 15-1-64. Nothing of the sort was done by the 
petitioner and I see no reason why the word of these two 
witnesses, that respondent No. 1 did not visit Portugal should 
not be accepted. Respondent No. 1 further stated in the 
course of his cross-examination that he was instructed to 
stay in each of these countries for sometime; that that 
particular mission was entrusted to him alone; that as far as 
the expenses of the journey were concerned the issue of 
sharing them never arose; that he volunteered to pav some 
of the expenses; that the question of expenses was discussed 
in the first week of April, 1962, when he agreed to do the 
work for the Government; that he told Handoo that he 
would pay certain expenses and Handoo f greed to the sug- 
gestion; that money was paid in cash to him before he left, 
but that he did not know what was the amount paid; that 
the money paid was in Sterling, but that he did not remem- 
ber the denomination of the notes in which it was paid; that 
the money was paid in the month of May, 1962 in Goa; 
that he could not say what were the total expenses of the 
trip; that he did not remember how much money he had 
received from the Government; that he spent all the money 
that he received from the Government for the work entrusted 
to him by the Government and whatever he had spent in 
addition to what he received was reimbursed to him on his 
return; that the reimbursement was made in October in Goa, 
in rupees, in cash; that he spent in foreign currency of his 
own, which he had taken from here whilst going and was 
reimbursed in Indian currency; that some money was sent 
to him by Government whilst he was abroad but that he 
did not know the persons who delivered that money to him; 
that he accepted money from persons he knew were coming 
from Handoo. He used to identify those persons by con- 
necting the instructions given to him with the messages the 
persons who came from Handoo used to give him; that he 
contacted some friends in Portugal whitst he was in London 
to find out the possibility of his visit to Portugal; that the 
names of those friends were piven to him by Handoo in 
Goa; that he had taken down m writing the name; jof those 
friends and had kept a record of those names, but' that the 
record was later on destroyed. Respondent No, 1 was 
asked by Shri Bhandare: — “You first stated that you could 
not disclose the names of the friends and when you were 
compelled to disclose the names later on, you stated that you 
did not remember the names. Which of the two versions 



2134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part TI— 


is correct?”, and the answer was: — “I do not want to disclose 
the names and also ] do not remember the names.” Accord- 
ing to Shri Bhandare the answei was discrepant. On behalf 
of the respondent No. 1 it was contended that the meaning 
of the answer was that even if respondent No. 1 remembered 
the names of those friends he was not prepared to disclose 
their names. Respondent No. 1 further stated that he gave 
the accounts of his expenditure to Handoo, but maintained 
no copy of them; that all the notes he had taken down from 
the records cither regarding the secret mission or the reten- 
tion of Portuguese passport, the complying with formalities, 
and the taking of due precautions, were destroyed by him 
under instructions, when he returned the Portuguese passport. 
It was suggested to respondent No. 1 that the instructions 
he was speaking about had not been mentioned by him in 
the written statement. The respondent No. 1 replied that 
they were mentioned in the written statements in a very 
guarded manner and that it could be inferred from the 
general rending of the written statement that he had been 
entrusted with a secret mission. When respondent No. 1 
was questioned about his work in Portugal, he stated that 
the lady was not his relation, but his friend; that there was 
no entanglement ns Handoo had written in P. 4; that the 
reasons for his visiting that friend were highly personal, i.e. 
the matter was private one between him and the lady; that 
the messages that were sent to him by friends in Portugal 
not to go to Portugal were communicated to him either by 
work of mouth or in writing; that the writings were hand 
delivered; that the messages were sent in Portuguese and 
English; that during his secret mission he was given means 
to identify himself, but that he was not given an identity 
card; that after leaving India he went first to Pakistan; thaL 
he does not remember whether in Pakistan he stayed in a 
hotel or a private house; that he stayed in London for 
about three weeks sometimes in a hotel, sometimes with 
friends; that he docs not remember the name of the hotel; 
that he does not remember he made short trips from London 
before he renewed his Portuguese passport in June 1962; 
that he could not say the exact sequence of the countries 
he visited, but that that sequence could be found in the 
Portuguese passport that he surrendered; that his mission was 
not only to deliver secret messages but included meeting 
people and discussing with them; that the exit and re-entry 
permit (P. 5) was given to him to facilitate the mission; 
that he could not say why countries other than U.K. and 
Portugal were not mentioned in P. 5; that when he waj 
given P. 5 he had already been given instructions to visit 
various other countries; that the secret mission was against 
Portugal; that in other countries his mission was against 
Portugal; that he had specific instructions from Handoo not 
to disclose the mission to any body and that he did not 
disclose even to his parents that he was going on a secret 
mission; that the friepds who advised him not to go to 
Portugal were in Portugal; that he also received instructions 
not to go to Portugal fiom Handoo; that sometimes he 
contacted friends in Portugal and at other time triends con- 
tacted him; that the friends did not volunter to give him 
that advice, but that he consulted those friends before leaving 
for Portugal; that the instructions to contact friends in 
Portugal were given to him by Handoo in Goa; that instruc- 
tions were received by him from Handoo not to go to 
Portugal whilst he was in London, after he contacted friends 
in Portugal; that he asked for instiuctions from Handoo; 
that he disclosed about the secret mission for the first time 
openly in this Court after the petition was filed because he 
fount! that Government themselves had made such disclosure 
in their written statements; that his mission ended on 
15-1-1964 when he returned his Portuguese passport. 

42. Handoo has substantially supported the statement of 
respondent No. 1 regarding the secret mission. Handoo 
stated that he entrusted respondent No. 1 with a highly top 
secret mission in connection with the security of the Govern- 
ment of India; that the respondent No. 1 had retained his 
Portuguese passport till such time he had asked him to 
relinquish it; that he had asked respondent No. 1 to retain 
his passport in order that he could comply with the assign- 
ment that was given to him; that respondent No. 1 tiavclled 
to various countries under instructions from him on a 
Portuguese passport; that he travelled for a period of six 
months on that passport in connection with the assignment 
that had been given to him; that the Government of India 
and respondent No. t shared the expenses of his travel 
abroad. In his cross-examination he stated that the reasons 
for choosing respondent No. 1 for the top secret assignment 
were: — (i) the holding of a Portuguese passport by respon- 
dent No. 1 (ii) his entanglement with a Portuguese lady 


(iii) the certainty that the respondent No, 1 was a trustworthy 
and loyal Indian citizen. He further stated that he consi- 
dered respondent No, 1 the only trustworthy and loyal Indian 
amongst all the Goans in Goa for that particular assignment 
as he knew respondent No. 1 since the time respondent 
No. 1 was a student in Bombay^ that he did check up the 
antecedents of respondent No. 1 with reference to his parents, 
family background, his associates and career, before entrust- 
ing him with the top secret assignment; that this check up 
was done through the normal channel through the CJ.D. 
that he could not say whether the reports of the check up of 
the antecedents are available with the C.I.D.; that all that 
he could recollect at that moment was that there was no 
adverse report against respondent No. 1. In this regard 1 
find that there is on record a report of the Police to say 
that the father and uncle of respondent No 1 were holding 
pro-Indian views and that there was nothing adverse found 
against respondent No. 1. When Shri Bhandare asked 
Handoo how many persons he had considered for the top 
secret assignment before selecting respondent No. 1, he re- 
plied that he was not in a position to disclose that fact as 
he was under nn oath of secrecy to the Intelligence Bureau 
of the Government of India. Shri Bhandare asked Handoo 
whether he could say about the amount of advance given to 
the respondent No. 1 before his departure on the top secret 
assignment from Goa and Handoo replied that he did not 
remember the amount and that the amount advanced was 
not in cheque but in cash and that he did not remember the 
currency or the denomination in which the advance was 
made. Shri Porus Mehta argues that a person could not be 
expected to remember such details after ten years. The 
question was asked from Handoo whether he had sent the 
instructions to respondent No. 1 in every country he visited 
during the period of the secret assignment. Hondoo replied 
in the affirmative and stated that he was in contact with 
respondent No, 1 while he was abroad on that assignment 
and while he was visiting various countries. He stated that 
the assignment was interconnected with his visit to various 
countries; that the instructions given to respondent No, 1 
prior to his departure from Goa were altered subsequent]}) 
when respondent No. 1 was in London; that the assignment 
involved risk to the life of respondent No. 1 and that such 
risk was envisaged by him when respondent No. 1 was sent 
from Goa; that the order in which he was to visit the 
various countries was Pakistan, U.K,, Portugal, Germany and 
Holland; that he was required to stay in each countix 
Handoo stated that he did not disclose to Josbi that he was 
sending respondent No. 1 on top secret assignment; that he 
"would not” know why the exit and re-entry permit 
mentioned only U.|K. and Portugal. When he was asked 
when did he meet respondent No. 1 for the first time in 
connection with the top secret assignment he replied that it 
was sometime early March 1962 and that the meeting was 
at his instance. He stated that he did not recollect whether 
at that meeting any other discussion besides the secret 
assignment, had taken place and that the secret assignment 
as for as he remembered terminated late in 1963. 


43. Evidence about the existence of the secret mission 
was also given by Shri B. R, Patel, I.A.S., Joint Secretary, 
Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs. Patel is 
the Joint Secretary in charge of citizenship section and he 
exercises all the powers and functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Citizenship Act 1955 and the Rules framed 
thereunder, The written statement filed by the Government 
of India was sworn by him. He was duly authorised by the 
Union of India to file the written statement and to state what 
was written in it. Patel was examined on commission in 
Delhi, A certified copy of the written statement was pro- 
duced before the Commissioner and shown to him. He 
identified the certified copy and the copy was taken on 
record and read as evidence by consent of both the parties. 
Patel was cross-examined by Shri Bhandare, counsel for the 
petitioner, regarding the statements made by him in the 
written statement and also regarding other evidence given 
by him. Patel stated that the Union of India have treated 
respondent No. 1 ns a citizen of India from 20th December, 
1961. In cross-examination he stated that the reason why 
it has been stated in paragraph 3 of the written statement of 
respondent No. 3 that the first respondent became a citizen 
of India on 20-12-1961 and is still a citizen of India is that 
he became a citizen of India under the Goa, Daman and 
Diu (Citizenship) Order 1962 and that the declaration that 
respondent No. 1 made under “the Order" vns on the advice 
and at the instance of the then Special Adviser, Gon on 
behalf of the Government of India, for reasons connected 
with affairs of State and as such the said declaration (P. 3) 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


2135 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


was not voluntarily made and had no effect on the status of 
the respondent No. 1 as an Indian citizen. Patel however 
added that the answer contained in the last sentence was 
given by him on the basis of the official records. He also 
stated that the written statement was based on records which 
were connected with affairs of State. He stated, based on 
the information derived from official records, that the decla- 
ration signed by the first respondent was on behalf of the 
third respondent, the Union of India. He stated that the 
advice given by the then Special Adviser, Goa, on behalf of 
the Government of India was given for reasons connected 
with affairs of State. Patel was asked by Shri Bhandare why 
respondent No. 1 was treated as a foreigner in 
certain letters and documents produced in court and the reply 
was that that was done to avoid any complications as the first 
respondent held a Portuguese passport for reasons connected 
with affairs of State and that the granting of residential 
permits were made on behalf of the third respondent with 
a view not to embarass the first respondent. Shri Bhandare 
asked Patel whether it was only on the strength of the 
documents not produced that the Government holds that 
the declaration retaining Portuguese nationality was filed by 
respondent No. t on the advice and at the instance of the 
Special Adviser on behalf of the Government of India and 
Patel replied that it was on the strength of the records 
produced and not produced. The evidence of Patel which is 
based on the records not produced by him W'as challenged 
by Shri Bhandare. Tt seems to me that Shri Bhandavc’s objec- 
tion must be upheld. 


44. I have discussed the entire oral evidence regarding the 
secret mission and the fact, as to whether P. 3 was signed by 
respondent No. 1 intentionally. The mission was secret and 
apart from respondent No. 1, handoo and a few top Govern- 
ment officials, no one was in a position to know whether 
such mission bad been assigned to respondent No. 1 or not. 
1 he existence of the mission was challenged by the peti- 
tioner not on concrete data or definite basis but on surmises, 
The case of the petitioner is that the oral evidence regarding 
the secret mission and the alleged lack of volition on the 
part of respondent No. 1 in signing P. 3, was full of absurdi- 
ties and that there were also some contradiction. It cannot 
be gainsaid that there are minor contradictions but they are 
unimportent and somewhat natural. The existence of such 
contradictions rather strengthens the credibility of the testi- 
money of the witnesses than weaken it. It is argued by the 
petitioner that the respondent No, 1 had many pro-Portuguese 
friends and pro-Portuguese learnings, that nis sole aim in 
retaining Portuguese passport was to visit Portugal on account 
of his entanglement with a Portuguese lady and to look after 
his interests in Portugal, Angola and Mozambique; that at that 
time I was not possible for Goans holding Indian passport to 
enter Portugal None of these contentions, however can be 
supported by the lecord. Apart from some vague opinion 
and surprise of some police officer there is nothing to show 
that respondent No. 1 had lands or other financial interests 
in Portugal or her colonics. Respondent No, 1 denied a 
suggestion made in that regard in the cross-examination, 
The petitioner contends that the secret, mission was not at all 
mentioned in the written statement, and was for the first 
time mentioned in Court, Respondent No, 1 has explained 
that he stated this fact in the written statement in a guarded 
manner because the mission being secret he thought he would 
not be justified in disclosing it more clearly them he did 
and that he made a full disclosure about the existence of 
such mission when he found that Government of India 
themselves had disclosed the existence of the secret mission 
in the written statement filed by them. Respondent No. t 
did state in paragraph 4(b) and (c) that P. 3 was not a 
valid declaration in as much as he did not choose to retain 
his Portuguese nationality; that the declaration was made at 
the request of the then Special Officer, for reasons which 
had no connection whatever with any intention to retain 
Portuguese nationality or citizenship, or to lose Indian 
citizenship; that the only intention in making P. 3 w 7 a.s to 
retain the passport, and not the Portuguese nationality or to 
renounce the Indian nationality; that the Special Officer 
knowing of this intention conveyed to respondent. No. 1 that 
he could make the declaration P. 3. The petitioner states 
that the facts: — that no special paining was given to respon- 
dent No. 1 for sending htm on secret assignment, his acade- 
mical Qualifications being only matilculation, that his age 
was only 23, that he was a freedom fighter who worked 
against the Portuguese before Liberation, that the exit and 
re-entry pe/mit mentions only two countries and not others, 
that the secret mission was nowhere mentioned in the Gov- 
31 G of T/73 — 2. 


JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


eminent correspondence now before the Court, that the 
Government of Goa was not informed about the secret 
mission inspite of frantice inquiries and crash wireless mess- 
ages regarding the issue of citizenship, that the assignment 
was mainly against Portugal and yet Portugal was not 
visited. That tne expenses were shared by respondent No.l 
and Government though respondent No. 1 stated that the 
issue of sharing did not arise, that the Government paid 
respondent No. 1 in foreign currency in cash in Goa and was 
reimbursed in Indian currency, that the persons who handed 
over money to respondent No, 1 in foreign countries were not 
known to respondent No. 1, that persons in foreign countries 
who delivered messages to respondent No. 1 were connected 
with the secret work, that respondent No. 1 does not remem- 
ber even a single name of the friends in Portugal, that 
respondent No. 1 admits that accounts were given to the 
Government but no copy was maintained; that the mission 
to all countries was secret,, and that messages received from 
Portugal were dilivered to respondent No. 1 in London by 
word of mouth; are facts that show that the alleged secret 
mission was absurd. I have considered all these facts which 
according to the petitioner indicate that the secret mission 
was an absurdity. It seems to me that the fact that respon- 
dent No. 1 had a Portuguese passport. This is definitely a 
besides his desire to visit Portugal there was other work 
that respondent No. 1 had to perform during his visit abroad. 

It is common ground that respondent No. 1 was to go to 
Portugal to settle some private affairs there. It is evident 
that the connection of respondent No. 1 with some work 
which was against the interest of Portugal made the visit or 
respondent No, 1 impossible inspite of the fact that respon- 
dent No. 1 had a Portuguese passport. This is definitely a 
pointer to the fact that respondent No. 1 was abroad on a 
secret errand given by the Government of India whose rela- 
tions with Portugal were at that time extremely strained 
because of the recent Liberation of Goa. The petitioner 
contends that it would be absurd to send a freedom fighter 
on a secret mission. By advancing this agreement the peti- 
tioner admits that respondent No, 1 was freedom fighter and 
that also is the case of respondent No. 1, Handoo supports 
respondent No. 1 on this point. It appears to me quite 
logical that a freedom fighter whose allgeianee to India 
could not be questioned and who had an ostensible reason 
to go to Portugal would be the most suitable person to go 
to Portugal on a Portuguese passport. His ostensible retention - 
of Portuguese citizenship and passport would hoodwink the 
Portuguese. The petitioner’s admission that respondent No. 

1 and the Government were sharing the expenses of secret 
mission pre-supposes the existence of the secret mission and 
therefore the sharing of the expenses cannot render the secret 
mission absurd, but quite on the contrary it confirms that the 
mission existed. It came to light in the course of the cross- 
examination of respondent No. 1 that he had started building 
a Coca-Cola Factory in Goa even berorc he left Goa in 
April, 1962 and judging by the time J the factory took to be 
built, it appears that the factory is of considerable size and 
a lot of investment was made in it by respondent No. 1 
This fact indicates that the intention of respondent No. 1 
was to continue to stay in Goa and such continuation of 
stay is in consonance with his case that he had no intention 
to loose his Indian citizenship. It is the case of the petitioner 
that the secret mission was concocted by respondent No. 1 
and 3 acting in collusion, but the petitioner has by his 
application dated 29-7-1971 withdrawn all the allegations 
made against respondent No. 3 when he sought to drop this 
respondent. The petitioners cannot therefore be heard to 
say that there was a collusion between respondents 1 and 3. 

45 In the light of the analysis I have made of the oral 
evidence on record regarding the secret mission and looking 
at the whole question on a broader perspective, the facts 
which according to the petitioner render the secret mission 
an absurdity assume almost negligible importance. 

46. The power of Handoo to ask the respondent No, 1 to 
go on a secret mission and to retain his Portuguese passport 
was challenged by the petitioner. In this regard respondent 
No. 1 has stated in the course of his cross -examination that 
Handoo had told him that he was acting under Goverment 
instructions whenever he was giving instruction to respondent 
No. 1 regarding his passport and citizenship that he never 
had any leason to doubt the power of Handoo to give such 
instructions; that he has not ascertained from Handoo what 
was his power in regard to the retention of Portuguese 
passport or granting of Indian citizenship. Handoo has stated 
that from 1955 to 1958 he was an Officer on Special duty 
in the Ministry of External Affairs dealing with foreign 



2136 


THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1 973/JYA1S THA 26, 1895 [Part 11— 


intelligence and security and also foreign security in relation 
to Goa; that from 1958 to 1960 he was posted as Comman- 
dant of the Central Police College at Mount Abu in the 
state of Rajasthan; that while he was in Mount Abu, he was 
given special charge of the files of Goan affairs to make a 
special study thereof as he was to take over as Additional 
Inspector General and Commandant of Border Security 
borce of Goa, Daman and Diu in November, 1960; that 
was the reason why he was intimately interested in Goan 
affairs; that in November, 1960 he was appointed Additional 
Inspector General of Police of Maharashtra and Commandant 
of Border Security Force of Goa, Daman and Diu; that he 
held this appointment from November, 1960 to December, 
1961 when ne was posted as Special Advrici to the Military 
Governor of Goa, Daman and Diu that he was competa.nl 
to ask respondent No. 1 to retain his Portuguese passport 
and proceed on top secret mission; that fie was appointed as 
Special Adviser to the Military Governor and latter on ro 
the Lieutenant Governor by the Government of India who 
had issued an appointment order which contained his poweis 
and functions. When Handoo was asked what he meant by the 
words, “I was competent to ask respondent No. 1 to retain 
his Portuguese passport and piocccd on top sccict assign- 
ment”, he replied that he meant that he had the authority of 
the then Foreign Secretary in the Ministry of External Altai is 
of Government of India to suggest the retention of the 
Portuguese passport by the respondent No. 1 and give him 
the secret assignment on which he was later sent lie ad- 
mitted that he did not have any written authority from the 
then Foreign Secretary, Shri M. G. Dcsai who is now dead. 
When he was asked whether he had anything to show that 
he had such authority, besides his word, Handoo replied 
that “he would not know”, To a suggestion made tq him that 
he had no authority to suggest to she respondet No, 1 to 
retain Portuguese passport and to proceed on top secret 
assignment he replied that the suggestion was completely in- 
correct. When he was asked whether he was officially ap- 
pointed by the Government after November, 1962 in relation 
to the security of Goa, he replied that he was not holding 
any official position after November, 1962. An important 
piece of evidence that shows that Handoo had the power 
in regard to passport is P, 4. He accepted that letter which 
was addressed to him and endorsed therein a direction to 
the Special Officer M.E.A. who was in charge of passports 
and who complied with the direction of Handoo. 

47. I have now to discuss the documentary evidence re- 
garding the secret mission and the legal effect of P. 3. How- 
ever, before I do that 1 would like to consider the documen- 
tary and oral evidence regarding the contention of the peti- 
tioner that the continued holding of the Portuguese passport 
by the respondent No. 1 after his return from abroad in 
October, 1962 indicates that the respondent No. 1 did not 
retain his Portuguese passport because of the secret mission, 
but because he wanted to retain his Portuguese citizenship 
to settle abroad. 

48. It is true that in Exh, P, 12 respondent No. 1 stated that 
he wanted to remain in Goa for six months under his Portu- 
guese passport as he was thinking of settling abroad. How- 
ever, in the next sentence he stated that if at the end of 
that period he had decided to remain in India, it was his in- 
tention to give up his Portuguese passport He also stated 
in P. 12 that he did not believe that it would be possible 
for him to do all the things that he intended doing if he 
had settled abroad, if he had carried an Indian passport. He 
further stated that if he had settled abroad, the work that he 
had in mind would involve travelling in Portugal, Angola 
and Mozambique. These statements, must be read in the 
context of the case of the lespondent No. 1 and of the 
copious evidence in support of that case, a part of which 
I have already discussed. 

49. P. 12 was the first statement respondent No. 1 made 
after his return from abroad for the purpose of obtaining 
a permit to stay in Goa. When he made another applica- 
tion on 5-4-1963 (P. 15) to extend Ms stay for^ a further 
period, he stated that his permanent addirss was in Cnmpal, 
Pauiim, Goa, that he had returned to be with his family 
and that the reasons foi his extending his starv were for re- 
taining Portuguese passport for one ti ip in October, his in- 
tention being to apply for an Indian passport on return. 
These statements arc in consonance with the case of the 
respondent No, 1 that he continued to retain his Portuguese 
passport after he returned fiom abioad, undei instructions 
from Handoo with a view to undertaking one more trip for 
the purpose of carrying out the secret mission On the 


statement P. 15, the Deputy Secretary, Home wrote to the 
Secretary to the Government of India, M.H.A., stating that 
respondent No. 1 intended to surrender his Portuguese pass- 
port after his return; that he was engaged in building a 
factory of cold drinks in Goa; that there was nothing 
adverse against him and that there was no objection in 
granting him stay up to October, 1963. On the 15th October, 
1963, respondent No. 1 made another application for ex- 
tontion of stay in India (P. 22) stating therein that his per- 
manent address was Campal, Panjim, Goa; that he had re- 
turned to be with his family; that he is retaining his pass- 
port for one trip originally planned for October and that his 
intention is to apply for Indian passport on his return. On 
25-4-1964 the respondent No. 1 was given a notice by the 
Registration Officer to show cause why he should not be 
prosecuted for contravening the provisions of the Foreigners 
Act and Rules (P. 28). By Exh. P, 30 dated 29-4-1964 the 
Registration Officer warned respondent No, 1 that he could 
not continue to stay without registration. Inspite of these 
warnings respondent No. 1 was not prosecuted for reasons 
which apparently strengthen the case of the respondent No, 1 
and his claim to Indian citizenship is not out of place. 

50. The documentary evidence which I have considered 
above regarding the point raised by the petitioner on the 
basis of the retention by him of the Portuguese passport is 
in accoi dance with the oral evidence which I shall presently 
consider. 

51. Respondent No. 1 has stated that whatever was done 

by him in connection with the holding of a Portuguese pass- 
port Until 15-1-1964 or in connection with its use was done 
on instructions from Handoo on behalf of the Government 
of India; that when he returned from abroad in October, 1962 
lie had no personal reason for holding the Portuguese passport; 
that on Ilandoo’s instructions he followed all formalities such 
as applying for residence permits and doing whatever was 
necessary for getting the permission renewed; that his statement 
dated 23-1 1-1962 made before the Police at Panjim was 
made because Handoo told him to take the position that 
he was uncertain ns to whether he would remain in Goa or 
go abroad and also as to whether he should return the 
Portuguese passport in the event of his going abroad; that 
the idea was that he should take the position that if he hid 
gone abroad he might retain his Portuguese passport; that 
the idea as conveyed to him by Handoo was that he should 
take the position that if he went abroad he might retain 
his Portuguese passport and that if he remained he would 
not retain Portuguese passport; that Handoo told him that 
this was the position that would enable him to get a resi- 
dence permit here without attracting attention and at the 
same time would enable him to hold the Portuguese passport 
without attracting attention of the Portuguese Government, In 
his cross-examination he stated that the ostensible reason why 
he retained the Portuguese passport after his leturn was that 
he was undecided whether he would settle here or abroad, 
but that the real reason for his retaining the Portuguese 
passport was an assignment given to him in official confi- 
dence of which the details are in secret files of the Gov- 
ernment; that the last instructions he took from Handoo 
were when he told him to return his passport on 15-1-1964; 
that he did not remember whether the instructions that be 
would be able to make a trip later and that he should continue 
to retain Portugese passport and that he should comply 
with formalities and take due precautions, were given to him 
In his first or second visit to Handoo after his return fiom 
abroad; that the written part of the instructions regarding 
the mission was givon at one sitting; that the oral part of 

the instructions was given in two sittings; that he did not 

remember when the advice to continue to retain the Port- 
guese passport, complying' with formalities and taking due 
precaution was given to him by Handoo that he did not 

remember whether they were given to him at the first or 

the second meeting; that the advice was given to him in 

on* of these two meetings; that thereafter Handoo never 
advised him to go to Portugal; that whatever applications 
he made after he came to Goa wore made for complying 
with the formalities and keeping up the pretence that he was 
a Portuguese citizen. 

52 On the question that I am presently discussing the 
testimoney of Handoo is that under instructions from him, 
respondent No. 1. on his return from abroad, contacted him 
at Panjim; that he instructed respondent No. 1 to retain 
his Portuguese passport till such time as be had decided to use 
him again or ask him to relinquish it that respondent No. 1 



2137 


Slc, 3(ii) j rHh GAZE lib OL INDIA 


retained his Portuguese passport till such time as lie asked 
him to relinquish it; that he asked him to relinquish it some- 
time in December, 1963 or January 1964. that he asked 
respondent No. 1 to retain his Portuguese passpoit in order 
that he could comply with the assignment that wqs given to 
him; that respondent No. 1 applied for a residence permit 
after his return from abroad in 1962 under his instructions 
as he desired that respondent No. 1 should retain his Portu- 
guese passport. In his cross-examination he was asked by 
Shri Bnandarc why the formality of applying for residen- 
tial permit by respondent No. 1 was necessaiy after his re- 
turn to Goa and he replied that it was necessary to guard 
the top secret assignment that he was on. He was again asked 
by Shri Bhandare whether he remained on top secret mission 
aftei his return from abroad and the reply was in the 
affirmative. Shri Bhandare again asked Handoo why was 
respondent No. 1 required to keep a Portuguese passport 
after his return to Goa and the answer was that it was to 
guard the top secret assignment against disclosure. 

33 1 have considered the entire evidence on iccoid and 
the demanour of the respondent No. 1 in the witness box. 
His clear, unhesitating and firm answers have impressed me 
as to their truthfulness. He was subjected to a lengthy and 
searching cross-examination which lasted for 11 days and 
this afforded respondent No. 1 an opportunity of giving 
minute details about his activities whilst performing the 
secret mission which details were not controverted. Instead of 
weakening the evidentiary value of his tcstlmoney tnc cross- 
examination fortified it. It is on record that the father and 
nude of the respondent No. 1 hold pro-Indian views 'Hint 
respondent No. 1 comes from w'elLto-do-familics and that 
there was nothing found against him by the investigation 
made by the C. B. I. He is a member of the House of the 
People for over 5 years. I see thercfoic no reason w ; hy his 
testimony should not be accepted, 

54. As for shri G. K, Handoo, T find that he is a comp- 
letely independent witness. He was occuping high position 
under the Government of India and was entrusted with the 
very responsible assignment of advising the Military Governoi 
and the Lieutenant Governor in the critical clays that succeeded 
the Liberation of Goa, Daman and Diu fiom Portuguese 
domination, on special matters, which obviouslv included 
political and other important affairs. A person who had been 
worthy of such trust on the part of the Government of 
India is to my mind worthy of full credit. 


55. It appears to me that the evidence up to now dis- 
cussed was by itself sufficient to fully support the ca r c of 
respondent No. 1. There are, however, on record documents 
of extremely great evidentiary value which I shall proceed 
to consider. 

56. The first relevant documents is Exh. P. 4. in view of 
its importance it would be convenient to reproduce it hcre:-- 

CAMPAI 
PAN TIM 
27th April, 1962 


CONFIDENTIAL 

MR. G, K. HANDOO 
SPECIAL ADVISER 
GOA. 

DFAR MR, HANDOO : 

Confirming my call on you this morning, I, as agieed, 
write to advise you that I wish to lclain my Portu- 
guese passport No. 703/58 issued at Goa for the 
present to enable me to visit Portugal and s«c a very 
personal friend on a highly personal reason. J 
request that permission be gi anted for me to leave 
India on this passport, and would appicciate a ic- 
entry permit valid for six months being granted at 
the same time. I am, as advised by you tegistcring 
my passport at the Police, and T shall be seeing 
you to hand over this latter immediately after, 
with compliments, 

Yours sincerely. 
Era* mo de Scquciia 


: JUNE lb, 1973/J YA1STHA 26, 1895 


No. SA/76/62 
dated 30-4-1962 


Please sec, I had spoken to you about this. The 
applicant has to go back to Portugal with reference 
to his entanglement with a white Portuguese lady 
and has to finally settle their domestic issue and 
return. He will then take Over an Indian passport 
which could be issue as he will renounce Portu- 
guese Nationality, Please issue him a re-entry 
permit as desired at 4 A’ above. 

Sd/* Illegible, 

28 - 4 ”. 


The main contention around P. 4 is that it was written 
by respondent No. 1 not to record down an agreement with 
Handoo regarding the retention of the Portuguese passport, as 
contended by respondent No. 1, but for the purpose of obtai- 
ning a re-entry permit. Shri Bhandare argues tnat the words 
“as agreed” do not relate to the retention of the Portuguese 
passport but to the obtainining of a re-entry permit. However, 
a plain reading of the letter does not support the argument 
of shri Bhandare. It is evident from the letter that respondent 
No, 1 called on Handoo in the morning of the day on which 
the letter was written and that there was some agreement 
between them. The re-entry permit was formally being 
issued by the Special Officer M, E, A. though, as it appears 
from the letter, instiuction for that purpose were ordinarily 
given by Handoo. If the call in the morning and the agreement 
tnnt took place at that time was about the re-entry permit, 
there was no need whatsoever to record the fact that an agree- 
ment had taken place between the respondent No, 1 and 
Handoo. Neither was it necessary that an agreement should 
be entered into for the purpose of obtaining a re-entry per- 
mit. A request would suffice, and Handoo could on such 
request, even if it were merely oral, issue instructions, 
written or even oral, to the special Officer to giant a re- 
entry permit to respondent No. 1. Neither can it be said that 
the retention of the Portuguese passport by respondent No. 1 
had to be informed to Handoo for the purpose of ob- 
taining a re-entry permit or otherwice, A person holding 
an Indian passpoit docs not require a re-entry permit and 
the fact that the re-entry permit was asked for indicates 
that the respondent No. 1 was holding a foreign passport 
and intended to travel on it. In view of these facts, 
holding a foreign passport and intenden to travel on it. In 
view of these facts, and of the fact that respondent No. 1 
hud at the outset placed on record in P. 4 the fact that he 
had a meeting with Handoo in the morning of 27-4-1962, 
the agreement referred to in P. 4 appears to me an agree- 
ment to retain the Portuguese passport. It is true that the 
respondent No. 1 states in P. 4 that the Portuguese 
passport is retained to enable him to vist Portugal 
and see a very peisonal friend for personal reasons, 
but this fact is easily explained if the existence of the 
assignment to respondent No. 1 of a top secret mission is 
accepted. As it appears from the record, the ostensible 
reason for retention of the Portuguese passport was the 
visit of respondent No. 1 to Portugal to see a personal 
friend of his, Respondent no, 1 also stated in the letter 
that he was registering his passport at the Police on the advice 
of Handoo. This fact was admitted by shri Bhandare whilst 
cross-examining Handoo, P. 4 ends with the following 
statement : “I shall be seeing you to hand over this letter 
immediately after”. It is unusual for a person to state In 
a letter that he would be seeing the addresse of a letter to 
hand over the letter. It appears from this latter fact that 
the handing over of the letter was also part of a deal 
entered into between Handoo and the respondent No. 1 
and that the letter was written for placing down on record 
the existence of such deal, in order not to jeopardize the 
claim of respondent No. 1 to Indian citizenship. 
As we have seen, the oral evidence in this 

regard, given by both, the respondent No. 1 and Handoo is 
that the draft of the letter P. 4 w-as given by Handoo and 
the letter was written on his instructions and that the pur- 
pose of the letter was to safeguard the citizenship rights oF 
respondent No. 1. If the intention of the respondent No, I 
had been to tetain his Portuguese passport and to register 
it, there would be no need to place on record that the pass- 
port was being retained and that its registration was being 
done. In the note written below the letter, by Handoo and 
addressed to the Special Officer. Handoo states that ha had 
spoken to the Special Officer about the letter and that the 
respondent no. 1 would on his return take over an Indian 



2138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/jYAlSTHA 26, 1895 [PART II— 


assport which could be issued as he would renounce 

ortuguese nationality. These observations made in the noie 
indicate that the agreement and the advice referred to in 
the letter had some connection with the retention of Indian 
nationality by respondent no. 1 and the acquisition bv him 
of an Indian passport. It was urged before me by shri 
Bhandare that in his not Handoo speaks about the renoun 
ciation of the Portuguese nationality by respondent no. 1 
and that Handoo has stated in his cross-examination that 
the purpose of writing the note was exactly as had been 
indicated in the note and that therefore the utmost that 
can be said about P. 4 is that respondent no. 1 and Handoo 
agreed that respondent no. 1 should retain his Portuguese 
nationality and passport and thereafter renounce his Portu- 
guese nationality and acquire Indian nationality. In the 

course of his cross-examination lespondent no. 1 had staled 
that the remark of Handoo in P. 4 that he would renounce 
his Portuguese nationality was not correct. He also repeatedly 
stated throughout his deposition that he had never applied 
to obtain Indian citizenship and that he has all along 

claimed to have Indian citizenship. The petitioner himself 

never challenged this position, Quite on the contrary he 

stated that the Government of India granted to the respom 
dent no, 1 two Indian passports and two Indian Diplomatic 
passports without the respondent no. 1 making any applica- 
tion for renouncing Portuguese citizenship or obtaining 
Indian citizenship. It must also be remembered that Handoo 
had stated in his deposition that the Special Officer was not 
informed about the secret mission. Tn his note addressed to 
the Special Officer he stated that an Indian passport could 
be issued to the respondent no. 1 on his return. Presumably 
because of the agreement that transpires from P. 4 Htmdoo 
had to give some ostensible reason why an Indian pass- 
port should be issued to respondent no. 1 on his return 
and this appears to be the reason why he infoimed the 
Special Officer that respondent no. 1 would renounce his 
Portuguese nationality. He could not inform the Special 
Officer that the retention of the Portuguese passport by res- 
pondent no. 1 was fake, since ho had not taken the Special 
Officer into confidence regarding the secret mission. Handoo 
had therefore to inform the Special Officer that Indian 
passport could be given to respondent no. 1 on his return 
“as he would renounce his Portuguese Nationality”. It is 
pertinent to note in this regard that Handoo stated in his 
evidence that “his intention to issue the instructions con- 
tained in the note was to make quite sure that respondent 
no. 1 and his Indian Citizenship rights should in no way be 
jeoperdized." P. 4 has to be considered alongwith the other 
evidence on record, oral as well as documentary and not 
isolatedly. If so considered, the fact that Handoo mentioned 
in his note that the respondent no, 1 would renounce his 
Portuguese nationality is not so important as the fact that 
he mentioned in his note that the respondent no. 1 could 
take over an Indian passport on his return. 

57. The animus revertend of the respondent no. 1 can 
easily be seen through the contents of P. 4 the various 
applications he made to continue his stay in India, his re- 
fusal to leave this country inspite of threats of prosecution, 
the construction of a large factory in Goa, the holding of 
Indian citizenship by the other members of his family, etc, 

58. Exh. P. 5 is the exit and re-entry permit. It appears 
from this exhibit that the permit was given as a special case 
and it is argued on behalf of respondent no. 1 that the fact 
that he was treated as a special case gives some indication 
in the context of things, that the claim of respondent no. 1 
to Indian citizenship was not out of place. 

59. Exh, R. 6 is the letter dated 18- 1-1963 written by 
respondent no. 1 to the Special Officer informing him that 
he was retaining his Portuguese passport notwithstanding 
the insertion of Clause 3A in Schedule III to ‘‘the Rules” 
and that information was being given to the Special 
Officer to enable respondent no. 1 to obtain his Indian 
passport in due course. It is evident from this exhibit that 
respondent no. 1 reiterates his claim to Indian passpoit 
and consequently to Indian citizenship and that respondent 
No. 1 did not feel that application for Indian citizenship and 
passport as necessary, 

60. Exh. P. 31 is the letter which respondent no. 1 wrote 
to the Special Officer, when he was asked by the Regis- 
tration Officer to get himself registered as a foreigner and 
was threatened with being prosecuted for want of such re- 
gistration. In P, 31 respondent no. 1 states that he would 


apreciatc that the Special Officer should advice the Registry 
lion Officer “that respondent no, 1 was an Indian citizen” 
so that the matter might be cleared up as for his registra- 
tion as a foreigner was concerned. 

61. In Exh. P. 33 respondent no, 1 requests the Under 
Secretary, Home, who was then also the Special Officer 
to arrange for his “claim to Indian citizenship to be accep- 
ted” as early as possible. On receipt of P. 33 the Special 
Officer referred the matter to the S. S. P. for investiga- 
tion, The S. S. P. recorded down the statement of respon- 
dent no, 1 and thereafter wrote (P.38) to the Special Officer 
to say that there seemed to be no objection to grant Indian citi- 
zenship to respondent no. 1 On the 24th August, 1964 the 
Chief Secretary by his letter (Exh, P. 39) wrote to the 
Under Secretary, Government of India and solicited ins- 
tructions as to whether respondent no. 1 could be consl- 
dcied “to have become an Indian citizen” immediately after 
the surrender of his passport without undergoing the process 
of registration etc, required “the Rules”. The Urder Secre- 
tary, Government of India by his letter dated the 2nd 
December, 1964 (Exh. P, 40) replied to the Chief Sec- 
retary to say that he was directed to state that on tho 
information furnished by the Chief Secretary there is no 
objection to respondent no. 1 “being treated as an Indian 
citizen under “the Order”. “ On the basis of P. 40 which 
was written by the Under Secretary, Government of India, 
under directions, which in ordinary course must be pic- 
tfumed to have been given by an Officer of the Government 
of India authorised to give such directions, the Under Sec- 
retary of the Goa Government informed respondent no. 1 
with reference to his request, that his “claim to Indian citi- 
zenship” be accepted, that he was directed to state that the 
respondent no, 1 had prima facie become a citizen of India, 
by virtue of “the Order”. A copy of this letter (Exh. P. 41) 
of the Under Secretary of the Goa Government dated the 
15th December, 1964, was sent to the S. S. P. in reply to 
P. 38, with a request to cancel the registration of respon- 
dent no, 1 as a foreigner, in view of the Government ins- 
tructions ‘‘to treat him as a citizen of India". 

62. On tho 23rd February, 1965, the Government of 
Goa, Daman and Diu issued to the respondent no. 1 a 
passport bearing no. 176798 (Exh, Rl). 


63. These five documents, namely Exhs. P. 31, 33,39,40 
and 41 require no comments. They speak volumes and are 
clear evidence that the Government of India had always 
held that respondent no. 1 never ceased to be an Indian 
national. P. 41 whereby the Government of India certifies 
that prima facie respondent no. 1 become a citizen of India by 
virtue of “the Order” and the passport R.l were issued by the 
Government of India after the respondent no. 1 signed 
the declaration P. 3 renewed his passport in London in 1962 
and continued to hold it after 19th January, 1963, notwith- 
standing Clause 3 A inserted in Schedule III to “ the Rules.” 
This obviously shows that Government of India had very 
good reasons to by-pass these thiee facts and in the absence 
of any suggestion made or justification given by the petitioner 
as to the reasons why Government of India acted in that 
manner, I am bound to accept the only plausible explana- 
tion given by the respondent no. 1 that all the aforesaid 
documents w r ere signed and certificates issued because res- 
pondent no. 1 had signed P. 3 involuntarily for the sole 
purpose of carrying out the secret mission regarding affairs 
of State. 1 have to conclude that the Government of India 
was aware that respondent no. 1 wanted to maintain his 
Indian citizenship, and that he signed P, 3 unintentionally, 
at the request of Handoo acting on behalf of the Govern- 
ment for the purpose of going abroad in connection with 
affairs of State. 

64. It is contended by Shri Bhandare (hat when P. 41 was 
issued to respondent no. 1 the Government of India was 
not aware that respondent no. 1 had signed P. 3 because 
the Government of Goa had, in collusion with respondent 
no, 1, suppressed from the Government of India, the fact 
that P. 3 had been signed by respondent no. 1. This 
argument based on collusion has to be rejected because the 
petitioner has withdrawn all the allegations made against 
respondent no. 3 i.e. “the Union of India by the Administra- 
tor of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu” 
Under Section 3(a) of the General Clauses Act, tho Central 
Government in relation to the administration of a Union 
Territory, includes the Admin istiator thereof and this is the 
reason why the petitioner has iefened to the respondent no. 



Sec, 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

3 ay “Union of India, by the Administrator of the Union 
Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu”. The withdrawal of 
the allegations regarding collusion against the respondent 
no, 3 includes such withdrawal against the Administration 
of Goa, Daman and Dieu. In paragraph 3(n) of his petitioner 
states that P. 41 was, to the knowledge of the thijd res- 
pondent, false and erroneous and contrary to the docu- 
mentary evidence in their possession. The expression “erro- 
neous and contrary to the documentary evidence in their 
possess ion’' might have been used by the petitioner to ex- 
press the fact that P. 41 was issued inspile of the know- 
ledge of the respondent no, 3 that respondent no. 1 had 
renewed his Portuguese passport in London and had conti- 
nued to retain it beyond 19th January, 1963, inspite of 
Clause 3 A of the Schedule 111 to “the Rules”. But the word 
“false” used in paragraph 3(n) appears to indicate that res- 
pondent no. 3 had also the knowledge that P, 3 had been 
signed by respondent no. 1, In fact, respondent no. 3 ought to 
have and indeed had the knowledge th^t P. 3 had been 
signed by respondent no. 1. I say so because the respondent 
no, 3 knew r that respondent no. 1 had left India on a 
Portuguese passport and had renewed it in London in 1962. 
A Portuguese national could hold at that time a Portuguese 
passport without signing a declaration like P. 3, but he 
had necessarily to sign such a declaration if he were to “travel” 
on such passport. Respondent no. 3 therefore had con- 
structive knowledge not only that respondent no. 1 had signed 
P, 3, but that he had registered his Portuguese passport with 
the registration Officer and had also registered himself as 
a Portuguese national. I say that respondent no. 3 in fact 
had the knowledge that respondent no. 1 had signed P. 3, 
because when in 1969 the Goa Administration re-raised the 
subject of the citizenship of respondent No. 1, the Goa 
Administration informed Government of India that P. 3 had 
been signed ny respondent No. 1 and yet, Govt, of India reite- 
rated the stand that respondent No. 1 was a citizen of India by 
virtue of “the Order”. Besdes, the pettioner has averred in para- 
graph 3(n) of his petition that the Administration of Goa, 
Daman and Diu having “knowledge” that respondent No. 1 
had signed P. 3, had, for reasons best known to the Adminis- 
tration, issued P. 41 to respondent no. 1. Now, the Ad- 
minis l ration of Goa, Daman and Din is a part of the Central 
Government and is included in it. Therefore the “knowledge” 
of the Administration amounts to the “knowledge” of the 
Central Government and the Central Government is deemed 
to have had “knowledge” that P. 3 was signed by respon- 
dent no. 1. What 1 said about the word "knowledge” in para- 
graph 3(n) applies to the expression “for reasons best known 
to them” occurring in the said paragraph. The petitioner 
is correct when he says that P. 41 was issued to respondent 
no, 1 for reasons best known to them i.e. to the Goa 
Administration and therefore to the Central Government, 


65, It is argued by Shri Bhandare that from P. 40 it can 
safely be inferred that P. 41 was issued from information 
furnished to the Government of India by letter P. 39 and 
that P, 39 makes no reference to P. 3. In view of what 
I have already stated this arguement does not survive. For 
similar reasons and because the fact of mis-represcnlation 
is not alleged in the petition, 1 have also to reject the con- 
tention that P. 41 was obtained by mis representation. 


66. In 1969 the question of the citizenship of respondent no. 
I w as revived. A wireless message (P. 43) was sent on 3-7-1969 
by the Chief Secretary to the Additional Secretary, Govern- 
ment of Tndia, stating that respondent no. 1 had 

made the declaration P. 3. The wireless message was followed 
on the next day by a most immediate letter (Exh. P. 44j 
forwarding a long note regarding the citizenship of respon- 
dent no. I, a photostat copy of P. 3 and a copy of the 
wireless message. Significantly enough P. 4 which, Shri 
Bhandare admits, ought to have been in the same file in 
which P. 3 and other papers regarding the citizenship of 
i espondent no, 1 were kept, was not sent along with P. 44 
P. 4 was not sent until it was called for by the Government 
of India. On 26-7-1970 the Joint Secretary, Government of 
India, M.H.A., wrote a letter (Exh. P. 52) to respondent no. 
1 staling that with reference to the correspondence about 
the “claim of Indian citizenship” by respondent no. 1 7 the 
matter had been reconsidered by the Government and that 
it had been decided that (he matter should be treated as 
closed. On 27-7-1970 respondent no. I wrote to the Joint 
Secretary, Government of India, a letter (Exh, P, 53) stating 
that while the Government of India had continued to accept 


: JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2139 


him as a citizen of India and had closed the matter, it was 
possible that the question may be raised sometime in future 
and that, therefore, he requested that the citizenship certi- 
ficate under Section 13 of “the Act” be issued to him. On 
27-7-1970 the Joint Secretary replied to respondent no. 1 
that since the Goa Administration had already informed 
him by L. 41 that he had prima facie become a citizen of 
India by virtue of “the order”, the necessity of a certificate 
ations and that at that time another Diplomatic passport 
under section 13 did nbt arise. On 24-10-1970 whilst the 
question of the citizenship of respondent no. 1 was being 
agitated anew by the Government of Goa, the Goa Govern- 
ment issued to respondent no. 1 an Indian passport bearing 
no. 935474 (Exh. R. 2). On 1 7-8-197 1 the Government of 
India issued to respondent no. I an Indian Diplomatic bearing 
no. D 011096 and the respondent no. 1 has stated in his 
deposition that in December, 1971 he was asked by the 
Government during the war to stand by to go to the United 
Nations and that at that time another Diplomatic passport 
was issued to him which he did not collect because it did 
not become necessary to go. 

67. No explanation was given by the petitioner as to why 

Exhibits P. 52, P. 53 and R. 3, were Issued except that 
the Government of India was in collusion with respondent 
no, 1 and that these exhibits P. 52 and R. 3 were issued 
in contravention to the provisions of law, I accept the 

argument of respondent no. 1 that P. 52 and R, 3 v/ere issued 
for the same reasons for which P. 40 and P. 41 were issued, 
which reasons I have already mentioned above, 

68. It is further contended by Shri Bhandare that the fact 

that respondent no. 1 signed P. 3 because of he secret mission 
does not imply that P. 3 was not signed by respondent no. 
1 voluntarily. Shri Bhandare argues that the respondent 

no. 1 willingly accepted the secret mission and was even 

pi ep a red to sacrifice his lefe and that, therefore, respondent 
no. 1 must be presumed to have also been prepared to sac- 
rifice his Indian citizenship, It is argued by Shri Bhandare 
that even if there was an understanding between the Govern- 
ment of India and respondent no. 1 regarding the secret 

mission and the signing of P. 3, such an understanding is not 
sufficient to nullify the effect of P. 3 and that the Govern- 
ment cannot consider respondent no. 1 a citizen of India 
by by-passing the requirements of “the Act”, even if they 
were instrumental in making respondent no. 1 sign P. 3 
Shri Bhandare states that by signing P. 3 a certain legal 
situation was created by respondent No. 1 and that that 
situation can be corrected only by following the provsions 
of “the Act” and not by circumventing them; and that the 
only course open to the Government of India, in view 
of P. 3, was to grant to the respondent no. 1 citizenship 
under one of the ways provided by Section 3 to 6 of “the 
Act”, 

69. 1 have already considered both these points in a differ- 
ent context. The argument that, since respondent no, 1 was 
prepared to sacrifice his life, he must be presumed to have 
also been prepared to sacrifice his India citizenship does not 
appeal to me. Besides, the assumption of shri Bhandare that 
respondent no. 1 was sacrificing his Indian citizenship whilst 
signing P. 3 indicates that the loss of Indian citizenship was 
a sacrifice for respondent no. 1. A sacrifice is a thing done 
by some contrary to his liking. This implies that the 
loss of Indian citizenship and therefore the retention of 
Portuguese citizenship was not palatable to respondent no, 
1. There is a fallacy in the argument of Shri Bhandare, 
because as far as life was concerned he was “prepared” 
to sacrifice it, i,o. t he was taking the risk to his life, but 
as far as Indian citizenship was concerned there was no 
queslion of his being prepared to loose it or taking any risk 
about losing it, The question was not contingent upon the 
happening of any future event, but it was a question of res- 
pondent No. 1 losing it outright. When respondent No. 1 agreed 
to go abroad on the seciet mission, he accepted the risk of los- 
ing his life, whereas when he signed P. 3 he would fortwith be 
losing his Indian citizenship, if the signing of P. 3 under 
such contingency was to have the legal effect that Shri 
Bhandare argues, it should have. A person who was pre- 
pared lo sacrifice his life on account of his country would 
not voluntarily do an act which involved the loss of the 
citizenship of his country. It would therefore, be illogical 
to say that even if that person had done an act an involun- 
tarily the legal consequence of the act* should follow. In 
‘Md. Ayub Khan v, Commissioner of Police, Madras and 
Others’ AIR 1965 SCC. 1623 the appellant Ayub Khan 
petitioner the High Court of Madras for a writ of mandamu 



2140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/J YAISl HA 26, 1895 [Pari II— 


restraining the Commissioner of Police, Madras, from taking 
action puisuunt to the order of the Government of Madras 
and fiom interfering with the appellant’s rights as a citizen 
of India. The appellant claimed that he had acquired the 
status of an Indian citizen fiom the commencement of the 
Constitution. He was served with a notice informing him 
that as he had obtained a Pakistani passport he should leave 
India. He applied to the Central Government for affording 
him an oppoitunity to prove that he had not lost his Indian 
citizenship. His application was dismissed, without affording 
him an opportunity. The High Coiyt held that the appellant 
“had in fact made a declaration on the basis of which the 
passpoit was obtained and the allegations made by him 
did not even imply that he was forced to make a false dec- 
laration". In the view of High Court Section 9 lays an 
objective test and when the individual had brought himself 
within it, the law determines the legal consequences of the 
situation independently of his intent or undci stand and there 
was no scope for an inquuy of the nature claimed by the 
appellant PaiagLaph 3 of the Schedule to the Citizenship 
Rules raises a conclusive presumption that a citizen of Tndia 
who has obtained a passport fiom a foreign country on 
any dale, has before that date vuluntaiily acquired citizenship 
of that other country- By the application of the rule in 
paragiaph 3 the anlhoiity must regard the obtaining of a 
foreign passport on a particular date as conclusive proof 
that the Indian citizen had voluntarily acquired citizenship of 
any counLiy befoie that elite. (Ayub Khan obtained his 
passport on the stiength of a declaration). The Supreme 
Court observed that obtaining of a passport of a foreign 
country cannot in all cases merely mean receiving the pass- 
port; that if the plea ia raised by the citizen that he had not 
voluntarily obtained the passport the citizen must be afforded 
an opportunity to prove that fact; that a case must be visua- 
lized in which on account of fraud or mis-represenlation he 
may be induced without any intention of re nounc i ation of 
his Indian citizenship, to obtain a passport from a foreign 
country; that it would be difficult to say that such a pass- 
port is one which has been obtained within the meaning of 
paragraph 3 of Schedule III and that a conclusive presump- 
tion must arise that he has acquired voluntarily citizenship 
of that counti y. The High Court in appeal was of the 
view that Section 9 laid down an objective test, and once 
it was found that the passport was obtained in fact by an 
Indian citizen from another countiy, the law determined the 
legal consequences of that conduct and no question of his 
“intention or understanding' 1 arose. The Supreme Court 
disagreed with this view. According to the Supreme Court 
if voluntary 7 acquisition of the citizenship of another country 
determined Indian citizenship within the meaning of Sec- 
tion 9 of Sub-section (D and by virtue of paragraph 3 of 
Schedule III to the citizenship Rules the conclusive presump- 
tion voluntary acquisition is to be raised from the obtaining 
of a passport fiom the Government of any other country, 
it would be implicit that the obtaining of a passport was 
the result of the exercise of fiee volition by the citizen. This 
view, the Supreme Court held, is strengthened by the scheme 
of Section 9(2) read with Rule 30 which contemplates an 
inquiry by an authority prescribed under Sub-section (2) 
for determination of the question whether citizenship of an- 
other country has been acquired by an Indian citizen. The 
Court-therefore held that the obtaining of a passport was not 
the implicit result of the exercise of free volition by a citizen 
and the appeal was therefore allowed. The other case that 
meets the contention of Shri Rhandare is “K. L. Modi v. 
Union of India* AIR 1970 Delhi 76.” Modi, the writ peti- 
tioner in that case, was an Indian citizen doing business 

in Singapore, In 1959 the political situation in Singapore 
was such that Modi had either to leave Singapore leaving his 
entire property and interests there unattended and return to 
India or to acquire Singapore citizenship. Compelled by 

these adverse circumstances, according to Modi’s averment, 
he involuntarily acquired the citizenship of Singapore, but 

he never relinquished Indian citizenship, nor had he the 
intention to do so. Throughout his stay in Singapore he 
had animus revertendi in relation to India which continued 
to be his home. In 1959 Modi wanted to come to Tndia 
to stay here for sometime with his family members, but he 
was told that, by virtue of his Singapoio citizenship, he 

could not leave Singapore without obtaining a Singapore 
passpoit, with the result that he was compelled to obtain 
a Singapore passport. The averment that the obtaining of 
he foreign passpoit in question was involuntary was denied. 
When he came to India on 4th March, 1967 he was detained 
and deported without any reasons being assigned. The case 
of the Government was that on Modus getting himself rc- 
gisleied as a citizen of Singapore, he ceased to be an Indian 


citizen by virtue of Section 9(1) of the Act; that the fact 
that Modi still held a Malaysian passport supports the plea 
that Modi had relinquished Indian citizenship; that the Indian 
citizenship automatically terminated under Section 9(1) of 
the Citizenship Act the moment Modi acquired Singapore 
citizenship by registration; that the fact that the petitioner 
visited Indian on several occasions is irrelevant because a 
foreigner can also visit India on a valid passport. Modi 
relied on AIR 1965 S.C., which 1 have just now considered. 
‘Government of Andhra Pradesh v. Sayed Md. Khan* AIR 
1962 SC 1778 was also relied upon. A similar contention 
was raised by the Government in AIR 1962 S.C., that as 
boon as it is shown that person has acquired a passport irom 
a foreign Government his citizenship of India automatically 
comes to an end and that in such a case it is not necessary 
that the Government should hold an inquiry and make find- 
ing. (It must be remembered that a passport cannot be 
obtained unless a person is a citizen of the country of which 
the passport was issued.). The Supreme Court negatived 
these contentions and opined that they were clearly mis- 
conceived. Therefore in Modi’s case the Delhi High Court 
held that' the acquisition by a person of a foreign passport 
did not permit the Government to come to the conclusion 
that the person was a foreign citizen without making an 
inquiry wncther the foieign citizenship was acquired volun- 
tarily, when the pica that it was acquired involuntai ily, was 
raised by the person. I have already discussed how 
the secret mission has affected the volition of respondent 
no. 1 in signing p. 3 and I have held that the existence of 
the secret mission was a compelling factor which rendered 
the signing of P. 3 involuntarily. The question of by passing 
the provisions of law by Government, alleged by Shri Bhan- 
dare, and of a certain legal situation being created on account 
of P. 3, does not arise. As I have already decided in the 
earlier part of my judgement, P. 3 is deemed to have no 
legal effect at all and to create no legal situation; if it is 
accepted that Government was instrumental in making res- 
pondent no, 1 sign P. 3 on account of the scciet mission. 
If P, 3 docs not in law exist, no piovisions of law can be 
said to have been by passed by Government whilst issuing 
P. 41, P, 52 and R. 3. 

70. The case of the petitioner is that when there was a 
split in the congress in 1969 and the members of the Parlia- 
ment were divided, the Ruling Party was not in absolute 
majority after the split and therefore the support of respon- 
dent no. 1 was sought; that respondent no. 1 was in the 
beginning reluctant give his support to the Congress Party 
because the policies of the United Goans were close to 
that of the Swatantra Party; that because respondent no, 1 
was reluctant to give his support P. 3 was shown to him 
and he had to agree to support the Ruling Party; that there- 
after he continued to vote with the Ruling Party; that an 
electoral alliance for elections of the Assembly between the 
U.G. Party, to which respondent no. 1 belonged, and the 
Ruling Party was entered into because the Ruling Party 
brought pressure to bear upon the respondent no. 1 by 
threating to expose the nationality of respondent No, 1. The 
facts constituting the case of the petitioner were put to the 
respondent no. 1 in the course of cross-examination and they 
were outright denied. Respondent No. 1 answered that he 
voted for President Giri because President Giri himself had 
telephoned to him and that after 1969 and upto the date 
of his deposition he had sometimes voted against the Ruling 
Party. There is nothing else on record to substantiate this 
case of the petitioner. Besides this case no other case was 
sought to be made out. It was not suggested that Fxhs. 52 
and R, 3 were issued because of the support of respondent 
no. 1 to the Ruling Party or because of the lectoral alliance. 

71. My conclusion is that I\ 40, P, 41, P. 52 and R. 3 
support the case of the respondent no. 1 and that he signed 
P. 3 without volition on account of the secret mission. 

72. The evidence and the points up to now discussed settle 
the question that respondent no. 1 is a citizen under “the 
Order". 

73. Shi i Poms Mehta argues that in fact and in law 
P, 4] read with P. 52 is a citizenship certificate under sec- 
tion 13 of “the Act”. The main objection to this argument, 
raised by the petitioner, is that P, 41. was not signed by a 
Secretary or a Joint Secretary to the Central Government 
as required by “the Act"; that there was no certificate issued 
in accordance with the form prescribed by the Schedule to 
“the Rules"; that P. 41 was an opinion based on purposeful 
suppression of facts; that the Goa Government had no 



21 41 


Sec. 3 (ii) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


powers in the matter of nationality; that even if the Goa Go- 
vernment had powers, P, 41, was not issued in exercise of 
those powers and that P. 41 docs not mention that it was 
issued under the powcis confeircd by Section 13 of “the 
Act". 


74. Respondent no. 1 never applied for Indian citizenship. 
He claimed it as of right. This claim was repeatedly made 
in various documents of which P. 25, 31 and P. 33 are the 
latest. In these three documents made in the first half of 
the year 1964 the respondent no. 1 requested the Govern- 
ment to formally accept his claim. By the letter P, 40 the 
Under Secretary, Government of India, wrote to the Chief 
vSecrctary that he was directed to say that there was no 
objection to respondent no. 1 being treated as a citizen of 
India under “the Order”. It is to be presumed that in the 
normal course the direction given to the Under Secretary 
must have been given by an officer of the Government ol 
India authorised to give such direction. The direction was 
of the nature of a citizenship certificate. Pursuant to P, 40 
the Goa Government issued the document P. 41, wherein 
it is stated by the Under Secretary who signed it that he 
was directed to say that respondent no. 1 had prima facie 
become a citizen of India by virtue of “the Order”. In 
Exh. P. 52 the Joint Secretary, Government ol India, stated 
that the matter of the Indian citizenship of respondent no. 1 
has been considered by the Government in the light of his 
representation and that it has been decided that the matter 
should be treated as closed. In Exh, R. 3 the Joint Secre- 
tary to the Government of India states that since the Goa 
Administration had by Exh. P. 41 already informed the 
respondent no, 1 that he had prima facie become a citizen 
of India by virtue of “the Order” the necessity of a certifi- 
cate under Section 13 does not arise. 


75, Shrl Porus Mehta argues that the cumulative effect of 
all these documents is the issue of a citizenship certificate 
under Section 13. I am inclined to accept this argument. 
Even if the contention that P. 41 was not a certificate under 
Section 13 of “the Act”, in as must as a Joint Secretary to 
the Government of India has by Exh. R. 3 endorsed the 
declaration made in P. 41, P. 41 and R. 3 read together 
must be deemed to be in substance a certificate under Sec- 
tion 13. The arguments of Shri Bhandare that the Goa 
Government had no powers to issue a certificate and that 
even if they had powers they did not use them, docs not 
survive because P. 41 must be read together with P. 52. 
The rest of the contentions of Shri Bhandare relate to the 
form. In this regard Shri Porus Mehta relies on 'Gorhandas 
Purshottamdas Sonawala and Another vs. the Eastern Cotton 
Company* 1959 SCR 346. In that case, under Section 8(1) 
of the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act any contract which was 
not in accordance with the by-laws of any recognized cotton 
association was void. The blanks in the official contract 
from, relating to measurements and differences above and 
below the settlement rates were not filed in. The validity 
of the contract was challenged. It was held that in the 
circumstances of the case the official contract form had to 
be filled in so far a.s it was practicable and that the omission 
to fill in the blanks in the contract notes did not 
spell any departure from an essential or a charac- 
teristic part of the contract form and that conse- 
quently the legal effect of the contracts was not in any 
manner changed so as to render the contracts void as not 
being in accordance with the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act. 
It appeal's to me that in the present case also form VI made 
under Rule 27 of “the Rules ’ was in its essence adhered to 
and the legal effect of Exh. P. 41 and R. 3 is not affected. 
Strict compliance with technicalities should not be required 
in view of the well accepted principle that an election should 
ordinarily be upheld and not easily upset. 

76. Respondent no. 1 is a citizen of India under “the 
Order” in view of the fact that no valid declaration was 
made by him under the proviso to Clause 2 of “the Order”. 
Until 19th January, 1963 there was no bar to an Indian 
citizen holding a Portuguese passport, Therefore his renewal 
of the Portuguese passport in Ixmdon in 1962 does not imply 
loss of Indian citizenship. His continuation of holding a 
Portuguese passport after 19th January 1963 might amount 
to the loss of Indian citizenship had it not been for the 
compelling reasons which led him to maintain it. The ques- 
tion of loss of Indian citizenship would have to be decided 
by the Government in view of the provisions of Section 912) 
of “the Act”. However, in view of the various documents 
on record which I have discussed at length, the decision of 


JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


the Government of India in this regard must be deemed to 
have been given. I need not therefore refer the question of 
loss of Indian citizenship to the Government in the present 
case. 

77. I have considered the case of the parties in all its 
aspects, I discussed the evidence in its minutest details* I have 
carefully applied my mind to it and I come to the conclusion 
that the respondent no, 1 was ^ at the material time and 
continues to be an Indian citizen and was therefore not 
disqualified to be chosen as a member of the Tok Sabha 
in March, 1971, In the circumstances the election petition 
fails. 

ORDER 

The election petition is dismissed. There shall bo no 
order as to costs. 

TITO MENEZES, 
Judicial Commissioner. 

Dated : 16th March, 1973, 
[No. K2/Goa-IlP/l/71j 
B N. BIIARDWAJ, Under Sccy. 


^ fa?#, ii ^ 1973 

«FT. 3TT. 1666. — *T?T; 3TTRfa RRWFT ft rpTT 

f fa ufa, 1972 if qfar# #tt?t fayrr ^ far 

fa#far 4 fax? 119 -msV^ 

# nfiFtw m, tht ij\ #. far, ?fa, 

RTWHT fafor, faff! 24-XTWRT, qfapft W, #6 Rfa- 

fafarr arfa faq^ , 1951 xpjt rrpffr ar^mr *nr 

fw •3#faT?T' fi' 7- # <101 ^rfar?r 

*R# 3TOW 7# (f-; 

ariV w srtMrc sf, g-tf fatf 3# 

t? #, crt# arepFRr 4 fair 4 $ wr arw fafa- 
w 3# fa^rr 4 1 , arfr, fa#far affair «rt # ertoet 
!ft RRT tf fa 3lfa 9TO" ifTT fa'J tfa CRfal e FR tt T 

3TrT: 3T»T, W srfaffaFT # UTTr 1(FR 4 

jf fafaepT SlFlfl TOT # #efHET R7 sff 

4 fa# # hrr" 4 rt fa# jtw faRHHmr tot 

falTPT 4 RRRR" R# OltV {ffa *Ti facj SJTT 

# xmfar #r «fa # 4 fanr fa7fa?r #fa?r 

^731 I 

[# T. 4 . -fa. TT./ll9/72(02)l 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th May, 1973 

S.O* 1666. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Bholanath Bhar, Raj A, T. Ghosh, Bahadur Road, 
P,0. Garifa, District 24-Parganas, West Bengal, a contesting 
candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative As- 
sembly from 119-Naihati constituency held in March, 1972 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after the due notice 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no 
good reason or justification for such failure. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Bholanath Bhar to bo disqualified for being chosen as, and 
for being a member of cither House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State 
for a period of three years from the date of this order, 

[No. WB-I A/119/72(62)] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part IT- 


2142 


afl^T 

W. 3TT. 1667. — «TT:, 1444m ■3fFlt T r W 1TRTOFT k mm 

k 1 14 rt4, 1971 ^ q?qm41 4'iid I4*nm mrnr k fcnr 

14ql4*i k 14m m-mkw 14 q 14 -i -4m 4 m$4 *n4 
d q n 41 ml. tpt?, 90-4, rnmm mt?m m4m <4^, 
^mrnrrmr- 7 (qfspkl kmim) mk n14?i14w. W4mm, 
1951 mm m^41m *.mn 3 mt? ’hr=TH V T'rm smU^m simt 
^qhw ^rmi m ^ 41 4ot m14rm qmf 4 1 amw mf 
t, 


ani: arr, mrm arfmfmqm 41 *im i<hp k a r^ ior 4 1 
f444m armtr tjerf j*m\ mm 41 huwim,^ 4mm k 
k 1k4l 41 mq i k m 1441 nw 41 kmim-mm 3r*rm 
fatnm qftmf k m^m V *n4 aft ?14 k 14m arrkm 
41 rnifk" 4 Vt mf 41 mrm44 4 14m 144V 414m 

^i^TT t I 

[4, an, m-14. n"./i75/72(2)J 

ORDER 


ariV mm:, mw mwfkqn 4, m4 ««i ! p ^yq-u 144 m4 
m 41. anr41 gtr armwmr k 14m 4? r wt arw mrkl- 
w mV 1447 4, a4i, 1444m annim m mf 41^i +num 
^1 mm f 14; mmk mm ?m arawm k fcn? mrfm ww 
m ^wlTmw mV fi 

am; arm, tw atMnrnn 41 mrcr io-qs 4 anpiw 
4 1, 1444m anmtm Tmrfmrm mmm 41 ml. 4 
mrnr k 1441 41 mrm k m 1W1 mam <41 Iktrrm-mmT armrnr 
14mm m 14^ k mrw 4>4 m4 a4i ?14 k fkm^irm ark^r 
41 mikter 4 Vr mf 41 qwnVm k 14m 14444 mH4m 

mrniT 4 1 

[4. m. 4.-14. m./i3i/7i(63)] 
ORDER 


S. O. 1668. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Narayanapuram Eranna Narayanapuram Dhanapuram 
Post, Alur Taluk (Andhra Pradesh) a contesting candidate 
for the general election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative 
Assembly held in March, 1972 from 175-Alur (SC) consti- 
tuency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expen- 
ses in the manner required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, has 
not ^iven any reason or explanation for the failure and the 
Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shi i 
Narayanapuram Eranna to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Lcgisaltivc Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. AP-LA/175/72(2)] 


SO. 1667. Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 

that Shrl Md, Omar, 90-B, Madan Mohan Barman Street, 
Calcutta-7 (West Bengal) a contesting candidate for election 
to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 131-Jorasanko 
constituency, held in March 1971 has failed to lodged an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Repre^ 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made there- 
under; 


And whereas, the said candidates even after the due 
notice has not given any reason or explanation for the failure 
and the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has 
no good reason or justification for the failure. 


«n4r 

«pt. air. 1669.— mmi, tmmfnm anmlm ^ rnmraim ft mm 

14 m4, 1972 4- ^ atFT m&r 14 wft mmr 4 f4t? 14-4^r 
4 fmrj 175-si c it ji ji i ) 14 q (4 h 4 m4 ^44- 

41 m#41 'tern 4mm, 14-ni^mi 4., (an^r- 

mku, mk ntnlMlW a4Vr4w, 1951 ^ 

f4wf ^rnm 3f41Vr 414 4 arr4 1444m mmt ^tt 4st 
^ilVr 'smt 4 to V V 1 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A .of the said 
Act the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Md" Omar to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No WB-LA/131/71 (63)1 


stf? mf;, \j Tti mwfkm? 4, m4 m>mm> ^*n 144 m4 
q? 41, 3 tt 41 ?m toi 4 14? V4 mrw wnr ETkkw 
14m f, a4? 1444m mmlm qm 41 mmmTm fl mm 
4 1 Ik mm im armwm k 14^ V? 1 irnfm wr m 


mkrn 

m. mr. 1668 . — mrni, fm44m arrmim w mrnimrm mm 

k 1 V m4 , 1972 4 8 ^ 3TE4 m&r 14mm mm k 14 e Vmkm 
k 14m 175-mc^ (3Rm) 1444m-4m 4 441 m mV qk 

Wifi ^ 

(afT^T ^T), 1951 

^ ipTTO rpr fTRT M 

^rf ttt cter ^rt?Tvr ^ -shtw ^ if 11 i 

V? mm-., mmm m? 4, m4 mrm^ 44m I44m4 
q T 41 3 tV 1 ?m armwmT k 14 e qmm mrnm 
V knf, ^ ^ ^ k mmniTm k mm 

k 1 14 wrk qw am aramfrmr k 14m mmfmr <tiw m 
jmTmttmrnr mV 4* ' 


3HT: 3HT, TTT tTT7T 10^ ^ ^ 

^rrf^R ?mt*T wWf 

^ ^ ^ ^TT TT^T ^ 3TW 

f^TTT qfrTT ^ ^ 3rfV IfW 4 ^ 3[T^r 

^ fTT^r 4 Tf ^ 1 iVe" ^nfVr 

TTrfT if 1 

OT. 3TT. VrU. ^T./ 175/72 (1)3 


ORDER 


S. O. 1669. — Whereas the Election Commission is satis- 
fied that Shri Bariki Pedda Eranna, Chintakunta Post, Alur 
Taluk (Andhra Pradesh), a contesting candidate for the 
general election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly 
held in March, 1972 from 175-Alur (SC) constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by the Representation of the people Act, 
1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 



2143 


Slc\ 3(ji)J Tilt GAZU rii Ol INDIA 

And whereas the said candidate, e\en after due notices, has 
not given any leason or explanation for the iculmc and the 
Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such Kill uie; 

Now, thcicfoie, in puisuunce of section IGA of the said 
Act, the t lection Commission hei l by declaics the said Sin i 
Bariki Pedda Eranna to be disquahlicd for being chosen as, 
and for being, a member of cither House of Pailiament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of u State 
for a period ot thicc year-, from the date of this order. 

[No. AP-LA/1 75/72( 1 )] 

3TT>far 

B^ fafVt, 14 *T? C , 1973 

TO. 3TT. 1670.— BB:, fafaBB 3TTBkT TO BBTOTB gf BBT 

fa Bfa, 1972 JT §TT faBTB BBT 4 far 

faqfaB 4 far, 36 ^t?7 Th =rN V %btb b?V Bfa 

yjVfaqR ssft wws- farEfa sfarcr, b^wtr bbt, 

TOTB B. 23, fatJBIfTl Tfa, TO«fa-13, Bfa BfafafaBT 3Tfw- 
, 1051 BBT 6 ^ Vi 'l BBTT BT V*-! M -H 1 q Till SrVfalB 
3TBV farfaB TOBf TO qfg' VI - ffaT qifalff TOV V 1 3TBW 

arft BIT:, 3W wVhBR V, bV BTOT qiJBT faV BtV 

97 Vi, STRfi fB 3TBTOBBT 9i fay 9>V 9TR <B OfBBT BI*ef- 

w b# faror 3rfa faqfaB sriBiR to bt Vi - bbtotb 
ri BBT f fa BB9^ 9TB |B STBTfTOT 4 fay ^ 9BfTO TOW 
BT TOTBffaw B# 

3TB: 3TB, 3BT STfafaBB Bif «RT 10-T 4 3R£BW jf 

faqfaB sTRiB - trBfyw gw Vi ar mw fa B tf fa §fanr 
^bbt 9> fa^ft Vi btb - 9>bt faVI wb qfi fauTB-BHT bbbt 
faWTB qfar^ 4 BTW ^V BlV 3rft 5iV 9? far ?B 3 TtVb 
9 >f brW V Vfa bV TORrofa - 4 far fa7faB RtfaiB 

TORT f I 

Rf. B&T.-fa. B,/36/72(2 1)] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th May, 1973 

S. O. 1670.— Whereas the Election Commision is satisfied 
that Shri Gayakwad Nivruti Ishvara, Old Kumbhar Chawl, 
Room No. 23, Fitwala Road, Bombay-13, a contesting can- 
didate for the election held in March, 1972, to the Maha- 
rashtra Legislative Assembly from 36-Dadar constituency, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses, as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of Section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Gayakwad Nivruti Ishvara to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. MT-LA/3 6/72(21)] 

arpftr 

Blf favt/l, 15 B^ C , 1973 

BT. 3TT. 1671. — BB: ( faqfRR SnRfa- TO BBTOTB - st BBT 
^ fa BtV, 1971 bVJbT fVlTB BIT! 4 fay faqfW 

$ fatT (3T. R. RT.) fafawVR V B/TTB 

31 G of 1/73 — 3 


jUNJb 16, I973/JYAIMHA 2o, 1895 

9tV BnfrqRR Vi 1 VMeT BTBB, BTB BBT5T, it. 3IT. 3nBBfB7T, 
fiTBT BTBBEp (S^fclT TT3B), rrfdlHrtBB arfBfBBB, 

1951 bbt Bf#r BBq' bt Pbbb¥ ^btb aptfejer aprV 
fBBfBB BT >V Vl3T BifsB BlV V' 3TBBB Ttf ^ 

3riV BB:, BBB BiV^TBR V, TV B*BB T[^BT frV BtV 
bt Vi', 3rrVi sb 3tbwbt ^ fBT 'V? 1 wr arw BT^Vi- 
BTB ^T# f^BT 3rfl, fW^B anBiB - 9T BT Vi BBTWTB 
nt BBT f BBBi 9TB ?B 3IBBBBT 4 BBfBr 9T7B 

BT iBTBifBBr B# f, 

3TBi 3TT, BBB 3rf«rfBBB 4f URT 10-Bv ^ 3R^B7 tT T 

V 1 fBBfBB ^nBrhn" tb^brt bbb Vi VirfB btbt b 

BBT 4 fViVi Vi B^B 9v BT iWi TRB Sfii fTBR-B^TT 3R1BT 

?BtITB 4 B?BT BtV |fV 4 fvfT ?B 3nVB 
bV BRfg- V rftB tV BiT BTBTTfB 4 W BfYVB 

BRBT f l 

[B. B,/ll8/71(3)l 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th May, 1973 

5. O. 1671. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Sripati Naik, Village Kasnda, P, Q. Jamankira, 
District Sambalpur, Orissa State, a contesting candidate for 
election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 118-kuchinda 
(ST) constituency, held in March, 1971 has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any rteason or explanation for the failuic and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Sripati Naik to be disqualified for being chosen as, and tor 
being, a member of cither House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. OR-LA/1 18/71(3)] 

BT. BT. 1672.— BB:, 3tTBfB BT BBTOTB ?t BBT 

^ fa RTV, 1971 V 1 B^k-TT fa«TTB BBT «|5 far] fafalB 

far jisb^btot (3T, b. BT.) farfaB-Vr V b^ttb 
BtV BwVfBR sfr far, *TTB TSB^t, qi. 

favll B ft M,< (B^BT B3B), ftfa bfafafarq srflrfBBB, 
3 951 BBT BfVfa BBIT BT ?BBe! ^BRT 3fft^B 3 TbV 
kfaTB TOBf TT Biflf Vl3T *?rfafl BRV V 1 3TBW r4 tf> 

3ffr BBi, BBB BiVfaTR V, TV BTOT T]^BT | faV Bpf 
97 Vf, BqVi- ?B 3TB9BBT ^ far ^ TOTB 3 tW BT^f- 
BRB B# faBT V 1 , fa-f fa B BTBfa TO BT Vt BBTOTB - 
?t BBT fa BBBi 9TB SfB 3TB9!BBT ^ fay 9^ qBfcr TOW 
BT WTO l TBfB B# l 1 ') 

3TB: 3TT, BTOT 3rfwfaBB 4f WRT 10-B! 4 3T^BW 

V 1 fa-BBB 3TTBtB- BBffBTTr BTOT VJ’ fafa 

BBT 9i fa?k Vf BTB 4 BT farft W Blf fa«TB-BBT 3TBBT 
farjTB qfrBT 95 btw tV btV arf? 51V far £b 3ttVb 
bV brW V Vfa bV qk qjBrrfB 4 far farfafa ^tHVb 

TOBT f I 


[V. B?faT-fa. B./l 18/71(2)] 



2144 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


ORDER 

$. O. 1672, ^Whereas I be 1 ledum Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Kanhai Singh, Viiluge Pathmunda, P. O- Mundhen- 
pali, District Sambalpur, Oiissa State, a contesting candidate 
for election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 118- 
Kuchinda (ST) constituency, held in March, 19/1 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failuie and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failuie; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Kanhai Singh to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council oi a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. OR-LA/ 118/71(2)] 


wj . an. 107s.— W:, snfan w trrrmFr fa wr 

fa fa *rrfa, i97i ^ gfafar faw^r *tht fa ?4faw fa 
far 118-^fa^I (ersr^TT) fafawfaT 4 5Tf4 Tt4 
j r fa.jq r i fa gpra, to fa. srr. unfa, 

fanT (gfanT 7T^r), nfa nfafaWr 

1931 wmt gffafr tw nr frofa fTO afafafa 3 Pt4 

fa t ffan qr fafa fa 4 t 9T qifaw q*4 fa otw fa 
1 1 

far w, gw rfaNnm 4, gfa pro fafa nfa 
qr fa, srrfa ww fa fan? q4fa wp aror 
gfaf fam fa, far Tfafaw arwfa ^ ^ fa rnmiR 
fa wt fa fa gnfa w sir 3TOWTTT fa f4n? fafa <mfar wr 
ITT WJIO (fa N| gfaf fa, 

w, arr, gw faifafgw faf imr io-q; fa qp^nnr 
fa farfafar afRfa sw ^ gssw to fa 

fair fa ^fafa fa fa m fafa gw fat farapr-trw t-tot 
faui^r fa tiiw *t4 gr4 faV lift fa fan?' n ^ snfagt 
faf m/fa if far fa far ^ranfar fa fam farfa^V fafw 
<rcnr fa i 

Cfa. gfakr-fr. rr./n8/7i(i)] 

ORDER 

S. O. 1673. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Ujal Naik, Village Bhalubahal, P.O. Sason, Dis- 
trict Sambalpur, Orissa State, a contesting candidate for 
election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 1 18-Knchinda 
(ST) constituency, held in March, 1971 has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Ujal Naik to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. OR-LA/118|71(l)J 


anfa^T 

W 3TT. 1674.— 1 W:, fwfw TOfr 1TOTOFT fa TO 

fa fafi wf, 1972 4 1 fafUR TO fa TOIW fatqfa'H 

fa iw 167 ^ 1 faprfcPT-sfr 4 T^ITT *Tf4 Tl4 

d ' tfafi T i t fa fa r m 1 qfyed , rfa, tot t fa. 3tr. qflynr^fa, 

fwi TOr4f Ot i t i s; ), faq; irfrfafwr srffafgw, 1951 

gin gffag aprnr gt? f4wf srtfw rq4 fnqhd 
TOrt mr fafa fa 4?5 t 'iiftsi n =r 4 fa sraw ifa fa 1 , 

faV qTft, 4, ^ fr4 qtfa 

q? iff, 3prfa ffr fa fat? qitfa to ppfaiwr 

^rfaf fa, afar, ffafacnr unfair qn ^ fa ?mraFf 

iFTT fa fqi \d rtfa qfFT ?TT 3(^qielr{T fa ffa? fafa 9 fafa THt u l 
qrr t# fa : 

w; w faffafaTppr faf ynr io-q; fa anpw 
4 1 fiffa^T anfaiT v; ffq ^ qivr gw fa f^Mif qfwsrr qfa fa 
4far fa ffafa fa htt ^ ^ fqfa faf ffajpf-tmr wrr 
fVtiFr fa trrw ^4 sn4 faV ui4 fa ffatr ?rr qnfa^r 
faf gfafer 4 4fr qfa fa qjTTOfv fa W fgfafar fafw 
"WfT fa i 

[4. RTT.-fq", R-./l 67/72 (22)3 
ORDER 

S. O* 1674, — -Wherex^s the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Khilare Pandit Badri, At and Post Kalamnuri, Dis- 
trict Parbhani (Maharashtra), a contesting candidate for the 
general election held in March, 1972, to the Maharashtra 
Legislative Assembly from 167-Kalamnuri constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as re- 
quired by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the 
Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Khilare Pandit Badri to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order. 

[No. MT-LA/ 1 67/72(22)] 

anfar 

Tfa fffa, 10 JTfa, 1973 

w. air. 1075.— W:, fafafar anfarr qsr TumiEr fa wt 

fa pt 4, 1072 4 1 4far gin fa far? rmnw 

fgfafar fa fan? 75-14 fas fafaw-far 4 gfa *tt 4 
gifawTi fa fa. qrmnTiff, hto 10, fafaw 4g, ai qfafar , 
4^17-2, fan; fafafafvjTT fafafaw, 1951 mn wfan irti? 
gi? frofa ^nrr apff^ET srfa ffafaw afa qrr fafa fa 

4ur faWr «bt 4 fa anrw fa fa , 

afa, W;, fa fa. 'F'lTfaVf fa faf gfa i^rnfa apfaw 
ttw an Tifa fa wfifa TOrfaf fa t? 4 fa rnR nr qm g# fa 
afa 4rnfw sfig-fr nr fa ngnnp' fa Jun fa ifa gwfa 
'mr su-PMO! fa fw fafa qfafar wr in 

fa, 

■31 PT: -spr, gw fa-faror faj nyu 10-q; fa a p^rw fa 
frfaw siRfT fa fa fa fqsfa fa 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2145 


tPT*r 4? 41 faft 7M ftt fawr-4Ri ar^rr fa*84 4fam| ft 
44*4- 4ft 'STT^t 3ifa arr^r 4ft unfa- ftft ft 

4ft 4> mi 4 fa 4? fan? farcfa4 ^rtfarTf 4741 f i 

fa. ftp-fa. tE./ 7 5/721 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th May, 1973 

S. O* 1675, — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri P. Krishna Murthy, No, 10 Obaiah Lane, Akki- 
pet, Bangalore-2 a contesting candidate for general election 
to the Mysore Legislative Assembly from 75-ChickpeL consti- 
tuency held in March, 1972, has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses at all as jequired by the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made there- 
under; 

And whereas the notices issued to Shri P. Kiishna Muithy 
have been received back undelivcicd as the whcicnbouts of 
the candidate are not known and the Election Commission 
is satisfied that he has no good reason or justification ior 
the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of seclion 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shi i 
P. Krishna Murthy to be disqualified tor being chosen HvS, 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State 
for a period of thiee years fiom the date of this ordei. 

[No. MY-LA/75/72 ] 

wfar 

ft Tftft, 22 ft, 1973 

W. 38. 1670. — 44: faqfan 3n4far 4T 441414 ft 441 

ft fa 4ft, 1971 ft 37? ftftnr ftnr fa*n4 *rm 45 fan?" 

ft fair 83 VRHtje (3141) farefeb- qk ft 4744 
4ft 4Tft 4ftftl7 ft 4^58^1414 /, 414 4 ft. 38. ftfa^T- 
4im, fam 24 17441 (ftVrir far), 4ft ufafafai'T 

sifafaw, 1951 44i nftfa *Fmr w fa4ft fw 
sntfft 3ft farftft *ftft 47 ft fti ftiw 44ft ft 
^rew ft ft* 1 f 

ftft 4b :, 14 faiej 41V ft, ^ ft R'-RI) 4,1 6 I faft 41ft 

47 ft, anrft 34 arerorcn 45 fat? 47ft 4884 3r*i4T 8Tftft84 
47t»r 4# ffti f, ftV, faftfar 3nft4 47 4T ft ?ramR 
ft 441 f fa 734ft tmr 3-4 arawbT ft fan? ft ? 1 muftr ^rw 
41 ^Wfaw 4 # f, 

3RT-. 3pt, 4W arfafaRR 4ft trnr 10-4; ft appppr 
ft - fftft 3nftrr tjn^qui 73-44 ft 4faep?i4i4 ft ft 

ftftT ft faft ft FTb" ft 4T faft 434 4ft fatR4-44i 21441 

faroi4 ifaq? ft ^474" 4ft 5nft ftft ftft ft fair 34- sjrftrr 
ft mftfa ft ft fa ft 44^T4fa ft far ftrfan ftftr 

4781 ^ I 

fa. 4. ft.-fa. 77"./ 83/7 1(64)3 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd May, 1973 

$. O. 1676.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Sachindra Nath Ray, Village and P.O. Matiagacha, 
Disliict 24-Parganas, (West Bengal) a contesting candidate 
lor election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly Irom 
83-Rajnrhut (SC) constituency, held in Minch 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as requited by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 


And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Sacnindra Nath Ray to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being, a member of cither House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order. 

[No. WB-LA/83/7K64)] 

anftr 

4T. 38. 1677. — 44:, ftlft 384fa 47 44W14 ft 

441 f fa Rift, 1971 ft ?T? ifalR 4414 falTTR 441 ft 
fan? fa 414 4 ft far? 84 ftfaT faqfabft ft 47TT4 wft 
4Tft TafafaqR ft ft. ft. ftftft, 414 ft' 84,1, ft. 38. <^48- 
faw 24 4744T (M?44R 4414), ft4! irfafafaTf 
3ffafft4RT, 1951 441 TT^ffa 448? 4X? fawf f87T aftfaPT 
314ft fafaW *44/ 4TT 4ft^ ft ffat ^7ft ft 3fW51 

ft ft; 

Slfa, 44:, 444 'dfth'IH ft, 4ft 47441 7[^4T faft 4lft 
47 ft, 314ft |7T arw^rr ft fan? 4484 3T44T 

74ft54T84 4# farjT ft ftV fftftftT 384fa ®>T 4§ ft 
441414 ft 441 f fa 4Rft 414 5"4 3T44T44r ft fait? 4rhf 
44far 4884 41 74T4tfar4 4# ft 

314:, 3T4, 444 fttfaw ft 414 10-41 ft 3T4484 ft 
farftft4 3n4fa w^ui 444 ft ft. ft. ft 444 ft 

faft ft 444 ft 41 faft 7174 ft fa«14-4VT 3IW fani4 
ftftf ft 4444 4ft 3ffa ftft ft fan?" 384fa ft 
47% 4 ftft ft ft 41 1414 fa ft fan? fanfaft ftfaff 41741 
£ I 

[4. 4. ft-fa. 4./84/7 1(65)] 


ORDER 

S* O. 1677, — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri D. P. Choudhury, Village Gangapur, P.O. Dutta- 
pukur, district 24-Parganas (West Bengal) a contesting can- 
didate for election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly 
from 84-Degangu constituency, held in March, 1971 has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as re- 
quired by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
D. P. Choudhury to be disqualified for being chosen, as, 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
01 dcr. 

[No. WB-LA/84/7U65J 

anfti 

48. 38. 1678. — 44: fa 4 fan 384ft 48 44TUT4 ft 

44T ft 1 fa 4 ft, 1971 ft 57? ftfal fa ^14 441 ft fan? faptf- 
44 ft fam 127 4q;41 (3E5T38) faftft-ft ft : 7)TPT 4ffa 
4lft 4faft<87 ft ft" , 414 4 ft. 38. 44fal48 

44T4, ^441 ftftftR, ftfal, (ft MfafafajTT 3lfalfaT44, 



2146 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1 973/J YA1STHA 26, 18V3 lPari' II— 


1951 Ry4tR *trtr rr frnr 3ptf$rR 3 Tr 4 f^rnf- 
rr «rof pt qd^ 41 4nr piW pt 4 4 1- araw 7^ f~\ 

a4V, «rt:, RW ynfftHF 4, r4 rtpe t^rrt fa4 
97 41, apr4 Frprr sp rf 9T 4 tp qilVstR r# fw t, 
a4V, ‘hr^f^PT armfR" pt rs 4t rptotr ft rrt f fa srfa 
9T7 t fsr 3rerotr q5 far? q4? c qR-fer ptw rt ^RiRffapr 
R# ^ 

SET:, 3ff, RW affyfRRR ^4 OTR 10-9! 9? 3f^TW 4' 
farfRR ourNt If^^TTT W sft mwt; *4 44q 9? 

farft 41 rpr 4 rt farf! 7 tjr 5 ft faRFr-RRT w fatnR 

qfar^ 4 rrrr r4 rt 4 34k #t q5 for? fR apfa pt 
mAr 4 4fa pf 9^ qJTRTqfq- q5 far} faViW RtfaR pH 
1 1 

w, R^k-tT fa. R./127/71] 


ORDER 

S. O. 1678.- — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Pranabandhu Deury, Village and P.O. Kalika- 
prasad, District Keonjhar, Orissa State, a contesting candidate 
for election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from 127- 
Champita (ST) Constituency, held in March, 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thereunder; 

And whereas l he said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Pranabandhu Deury to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order. 

[No. OR-LA/ 127/71] 


apfar 

R^ fafal, 23 Rif, 1973 

9 R. an. 1879 .— RR: ?dq(RR apfar PT RRTOTR 
RRT if fa Rfa, 1971 R*/kr fa&TTR TOR 9 ? fa <3 

faqfpR 9^ faR 123 7T3PTRT? (arRRT) ‘4 

^TTR Wpl 9 l 4 RRrffpP ?~fa 4 93 ^, Ppiltf RRPTT 1 T, 
qf. srr. r m ei 97 , f^-rn- Rfa 

artvfWR, 1951 P-TT Rf4tR PTItr RQ faWf ^9T7T antfyTT 

TERR q? 3PR7 RRT 7kfa 4 3194 faqfRR CRT? PT 47JT 

^?feTR 9 n 4 4 " 3 ) 119 , d 7 ^ ^ 

3fiV, RR:, JW Rfafawn 4, r 4 RTRP TpqRT fa4 RET 
97 41, 3 Tt 4 pr 3N14>ddl 9> faq q4$ c qnrrr 3TR9T 
Rp4N7nr pf" fprr 4 1 , ^44 fRqfRR 3 tp4r" qn ’f^ 

RRTypf RRT 4 f*R 9 TR" aPRRlTOT 4 qrff 

TRfar 9 R 7 ar RT 

3PT:, 3DT, RRR 3rP»4 14 OJ-r UT7T 10"95 4 appnnr 4 

tnqfqH 3 )e4r to 4 irtr 4. 

4 m f4r4t rrw qfi fRWRRrw appR f^Rp' 
4 rtpt ^4 rt 4 arfk ?i4 4 pr an^V F 4 


4 4kr pf q4 PRTqf y 4 Rtfpr prit 

?fi 

[4. 3 /rp-Dr. rr./i 23/71] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd May, 1973 

S.O. 1679. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Emile Kujur, at Nayapara. P.O. Sambalnur, Dis- 
trict Sambalpur, Orissa State, a contesting candidate for 
election to the Oiissa Legislative Assembly from 123-Rajgan- 
gpur (^D constituency, held in Maich, 1971 has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses within the time and in 
the manner as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not piven any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is f ui Lher satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Emile Kujur to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a for 

a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. OR-LA/123/71] 


3Tn4r 

fpf#, 24 1973 

p. arc. 1680.— pr=, faqfaR 3rr4vT qr rrtotr 

RRT (4 Rt 4, 1972 *4 qfpTR ’RTW fp-JT*- RWT 4 
^ 37 tf4?t (srsTSfi) 4 

ht4 p# ^-nfrrqR rtr; 25 ^, rtr f^R^nq-, qt. an.' 
qfVmTRqTPfsr, rrtrt, q?wV 4 rt?t, f4q: 

3ftvfRPrr, 1951 RRT Rf#! W] RT f^wf 

3 r4?5fnR 3 et 4 tnqhH «ptrf qsr q^ 41 4aT q i ftaw q)i4 4 1 
3raw 4 11 1 

3riV, rrt:, (jt4Mt7 4, t4 irrdp ffqpTT ?p4 qn4 
97 41, 3pr4t 577 3)«q,ddr ^ q4^ piw wit 

wAtt R# ftTRT 4 1 , ^4*7 fRdf-RR 3TFTkr PI R? 4f 

RRTtJTR ?4 R^rr 4 1 fa RR-q? 9177 ^7T 3TR9r7RTT ^ 

9Ri4r qTTW RT TpqffRTR R# f; 

3TRt, 3TR, RPT 3rf«?RqR q4 RT7T 1CHR ^ 3pp7tT 7? 1 
?RqfRR 3 )e4r 'JTf^fRTT RPR «4 tttt^ ®r| 4 tjr q! 
fq^4 4t- tttr q5 rt fq4)- 7 tht q4 frmR-RRr amr IWr 
qf7R^ $ RT7R ^384 34*7 44^ W ?7T 3nqV q4 

rttW 4 44r pf q4 pirtrIV ^ t4‘iW qr74t 

f i 

[4. q-. R.-fp. R./37/72C 6 B )1 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th May, 1973 

S.O. 1680. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Samu Tudu, Village Simuldhap, P.O. Balianawab- 
gang. district Malda, West Bengal a contesting candidate for 
election to the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from 37 — 
Gajol (ST) constituency, held in March, 1972 has failed to 
lodge ail account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAlSTHA 26, 1895 


2147 


And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he hag no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Samu Tudu to be disqualified for being chosen as, and 
for being, a member 01 either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State 
for a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. WB-LA /3 7/72(66)] 


New Delhi, the 1st June, 1973 


S. O. 1681. — In pursuance of Section 106 of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
hereby publishes the Order dated the 26th March, 1973 of 
the High Court of Judicature at Patna in Election Petition 
No. 1 of 1972. 

(Here Print the order attached l 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 1 OF 1972 


It is alleged that he had paid large sums of money to the 
influential persons in the constituency as also donation to in- 
stitutions to purchase support in his favour. As an instance it 
has been cited that respondent’s younger brother at repondent’s 
instance and consent had met the Principal of Quer Singh 
college, Darbhanga on the 11th of January, 1972 and had 
solicited his (Principal's) support and influence to elicit the 
votes and services of his students in respondent’s favour and 
as a consideration thereof the Principal was handed over a 
cheque of Rs. 25,000 issued on behalf of M/S. J. K. Syn- 
thetics of Kanpur on their account in Hindustan Commercial 
Bank; the Principal informed the President of the college 
governing body about his receipt of this cheque issued to 
him for electoral support to the respondent. The President, 
however, explained to the Principal the legal implication that 
its acceptance involved upon which the latter returned it to 
respondent’s brother with a letter of regret. The respondent 
along with his workers and supporters have also been alleged 
to have captured a number oi polling booths and get cast 
a large number of bogus votes therein after driving away 
the genuine voters who had assembled there to exercise 
their franchise. His further allegation is that because of 
respondent’s official influential a Union Minister a large 
number of Government officials not only connived at those 
illegal votings but had actually canvassed and worked for 
him during the election. 


Hukumdco Narayan Yadav Petitioner. 

Versus 

Sri Lalit Narain Mishra Respondent. 


New Delhi, the 26th March. 1973. 
ORDER 


C. P. S1NHA, J. — Shri Lalit Narain Mishra who it the sole 
respondent in this case has filed this petition dated the 22nd 
December, 1972 praying for dismissal of this election petition 
under section 86 and 87 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) before its hear- 
ing on merits inter alia , on the main grounds that it has 
not been presented within the prescribed period of limita- 
tion apd that it is not a proper petition because at the time 
it A*a£ riled it did not have wilh it the mandatory affidavit^ 
in the prescribed Form 25, It is to be noted that the res- 
pondent is still to file his written statement in the case. His 
request, however is that before he files his written statement 
tnis preliminary objection challenging the maintainability of 
the election petition may be disposed of whereafter if neces- 
sary he will file his written statement to meet the allegations 
of the petitioner as made against him in the election petition. 

2. The petitioner has put in his rejoinder, dated the 8th 
January, 1973, resisting the summary dismissal of the election 
petition as prayed by the respondent. To this rejoinder, the 
respondent has filed a reply dated the 29th January, 1973. 

3. This election petition hus been filed for a declaration 
that the election of the respondent to the Parliament (Lok 
Sabha) from the Darbhanga Parliamenary Constituency is 
illegal and void. This election took place on the 30th of 
January, 1972 and the votes were counted on the 1st of 
February, 1972. On the 2nd February, 1972, the respondent 
was declared elected having secured majority of valid votes. 
It is not disputed that the respondent had defeated his nearest 
rival Shri Ram Scvak Yadav by a margin of 91,078 votes. 
In this election the respondent was a candidate of the Indian 
National Congress whereas he (Shri Ram Scvak Yadav) was 
set up by the Socialist Party, The petitioner has filed this 
election petition as an elector of this Parliamentary consti- 
tuency and has averred that he was a member of the dis^ 
solved Bihar State Assembly and has again been re-elected 
to the State Assembly in the last General Election (It is not 
disputed that be has won this election as a candidate of (ho 
Socialist party). Shri Ram Sevuk Yadav is said to be a 
leader of AH India repute of the Socialist party and is also 
stated to have been elected thrice to the Lok Sabha and 
once to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly. 

4. The case in the election petition is that the respondent 
had won this election by resorting to corrupt practices, tak- 
ing advantage of hts influential position as a Minister In 
the Ministry of Foreign Trade of the Union Government. 


5, This election petition was presented in my chamber on 
the 20th of March, 1972 at 05 minutes past 4 P.M. At tho 
time of that presentation, it however lacked the necessaiy 
stamp report to which it was subjected later. In his report, 
dated the 22nd March, 1972, Court’s Stamp Reporter point- 
ed out that the period of limitation in this case had expired 
on the 18th March, 1972. Thereafter, on the 2nd April, 
1972, the petitioner filed a supplementary affidavit (sworn on 
the 31 March, 1972) setting out the circumstances in which 
he had filed the election petition on the' 20th of March, 1972 
and not the 18th March, At the time the election petition 
was filed it was also not accompanied by an affidavit in tho 
prescribed Form 25 as required by the proviso to section 
83(1) of the Act read with rule 94A of the Counduct of 
Elections Rules, 1961 notwithstanding there being specific 
allegation of corrupt practices on it. This wanting affidavit 
was however supplied by the petitioner on the 3rd April, 
1972, Even then the second copy of this affidavit was found 
wanting in the necessary attestation which the petitioner 
subsequently rectified. Tu due course, this election petition 
was posted in the list for admission on the 10th April, 
1972. Since it had been prcscnled on the 20th March, 1972 
limitation having expired on the 18th March, I admitted it 
subject to limitation, If any. Thereafter notices of the elec- 
tion petition were issued to the respondent. They could 
not, however, be served on him for quite some time, the 

circumstances of which are not necessary to be recounted 

here. Eventually substituted service, at the request of the 
petitioner, was resorted to. That service was accepted in 
Court’s order dated the 8th December, 1972 when a counsel 
for tfie respondent appeared and filed his power. He was 
then given a copy of tho election petition as available In 
office on his request. On that day (8-12-1972) respondent 
was allowed two weeks’ time to file his written statement, 
if any. In the meanwhile i.e., on the 22nd December, 1972, 
the respondent filed the instant objection petition in which, 
as already noted, his prayer is to dismiss the election petition 

under section 86 and 87 of the Act before being heard on 

merits. 

6. Mr. C. K. Daphtary representing the respondent has 
pressed for dismissal of the election petition under section 
86 of the Act mainly because it has not been presented within 
the prescribed period of 45 days from the result of the elec- 
tion and that in the eye o£ law it cannot be treated as a 
complete and proper petition because at the time it was filed 
it was not accompanied with the requisite affidavit in Form 
25 which it was mandatory for him to annex under the pro- 
visions of section 83(1) read wirli rule 94A. 

7. Mr. P. K. Chatterjcc appealing lor the petitioner has, 
however, urged, respondents objection petition so filed must 
be thrown out as non-maintainable at this state because 
the High Court has already admitted the election 
petition; even if the affidavit in Form 25 was not 
there at the time this election petition was filed it was 
not fatal to its maintainability and for that omission it 
cannot be dismissed in limine under section 86 and must 
now he tried on merits; since the Judges were not sitting in 



2 148 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


court on the 1 8th March, 1972 as it was a Saturday, the 
election petition could not presented on that day and also 
on the next day (Sunday) and it wus accordingly filed the 
following day, i.c., the 20th March, 1972 (Monday) on which 
the Judges sat in Court. 

8. On the position of facts and law as they arc, T am 
unable to accede to the contention of the election petitioner 
that the present objection as raised by the respondent 
challenging the maintianability of the election petition on 
the ground of limitation does not deserve to be entertained 
and must be dismissed summarily without going into its 
merit. As I have already shown, this election petition was 
presented in my chambers on 20-3-1972 at 4.05 P.M. without 
any stamp report which it was necessary for the petitioner 
to obtain before filing it (election petition) under rule 6 of 
the Rules for the disposal of Election Petitions, 1967, as 
framed by this Court (hereafter referred to as Court 
Election Rules). Subsequently on 22-3-1972 when this 
election petition was presented to the Court’s stamp Reporter 
for necessary report he reported that the limitation about 
it had expired on 18-3-1972, Thereafter, the petitioner filed 
a supplementary affidavit on 3-4-1972 in which he tried to 
explain how he had not been able to present this petition 
on 18-3-1972 and had done that on 20-3-1972, Since, 
however, the points urged by the petitioner in this supple- 
mentary affidavit to make his election petition within time 
could not be accepted or rejected at once and its (election 

etition) formal admission could not be indefinitely postponed 
ecause other ancilliary steps regarding sending notices of 
the election petition etc. to the other side had to be taken 
it was posted, in the list on 10-4-1972 for orders regarding 
admission and after having heard learned petitioners counsel 
in the matter the following order was recorded: 

"Heard, The Election Petition is admitted subject to 
limitation, if any. 

Issue notice to the respondent fixing 27-6-72 for 
appearance and for filing written statement, if 
any ” 

It will thus be evident from this order I hat the admission 
of the election petition was qualified in that it was subject to 
limitation, if any. In that view of this matter, it is, perhaps, 
not quite correct on the part of the petitioner to canvass 
that that admission must be regarded as unreserved and free 
from every string so that the Court cannot now look back 
on the objection of the other side to decide whether it 
deserves to be dismissed in limine under section 86 of the 
Act being hit by limitation, 

9. Under ruk 9 of the Court Election Rules, an election 
petition is required, after its presentation and registration, 
to be placed before the Judge concerned for such orders as 
may be required to be passed under section 86 of the Act, 
and if the petition is not dismissed under this section then 
summons should issue to the respondent to appear before 
the Court and file his written statement, etc. This rule, as 
it stands, must be deemed to postulate cases of unqualified 
admission requiring their hearing on merits. But, as already 
shown, the admission of the instant election petition was 
provisional subject to the consideration whether it was 
barred by limitation or not, Which point was obviously 
involved on its face because of its presentation on 20-3-1972 
instead of 18-3-1972 which was the hist day of limitation. 
The respondent has lost no time to challenge its maintain- 
ability on the ground of limitation. His appearance in the 
case was effected on 8-12-1972 when his counsel filed power 
on his behalf and he was allowed two weeks’ time to file 
his written statement. Before the expiry of that period he 
(respondent) however filed his present objection on 
22-12-1972 requesting for the dismissal of the election 
petition under section 86, inter alia, on the ground that it 
had been presented to Court beyond limitation which clearly 
meant non-coinpliance with (he provision of section 81. 

10. There can be no denying the fact that the point of 
limitation is a very vital question and goes to the very root 
of the election petition. As such, if the election petition is 
found to be barred by time, in the eye of law there is no 
election petition before the Court which it may be called 
upon to hear and try on merit. Because of this position, 
the matter can be stretched to (he length of holding that 
even if its admission on 10-4-1972 was without any condition 


attached to it the respondent on appearance could not be 
estopped from raising this preliminary point and seek its 
summary dismissal on this score. Tf the election petition^ 
is to be held as time barred then where Is a petition before 
the Court to be tried on merit. 

11. The contention of Mr. Chatterjee that in view of the 
deletion of the old sections 88 to 92 of the Act the intention 
of the Legislature was evident that the election petition, 
unless it has been summarily dismissed before admission, 
must be heard and decided on merit no matter whether it 
was barred or not is not fully comprehended. As is known, 
after the amendment of the Act in 1966 the forum for the 
filing and trial of an election petition is now the High Court 
which was previously the election Commission and the 
Election Tribunal. As the old provisions in the Act existed, 
the Election Commission, under section 85, was to dismiss 
an election petition for Its non-compliance with the provisions 
of section 81 (parties to an election petition) of section 83 
(contents of an election petition) or Section 117 (security 
deposit while filing on election petition). Under section 86 
the Election Commission was to appoint an Election Tribunal 
for the trial of the election petition which it (Election Com- 
mission) did not dismiss under section 85. Section H7 

enjoined election petitions relating to same election to bo 
referred to the same Tribunal. Section 88 required the 
Election Commission to fix the place where an election 
petition was to be tried. Section 89 authorised an Election 
Tribunal to call for the attendance of the Attorney General 
or the Advocate General in any election case as it considered 
necessary. Section 90 prescribed the procedure before the 
Ejection Tribunal for the trial of an election case, and under 
its sub-section (4) the Tribunal was given (he power to dis 
miss an election petition which did not comply with the pro 
visions of section 81, 83 or 117^ notwithstanding its 

non-dismissal by the Election Commission under section 85„ 
Section 91 laid down the procedure now the parly was to 
appear in the election case before the Tribunal, and under 
section 92 the Tribunal was vested with the powers of a Civil 
Court in regard to matters specified therein. In the Repre- 
sentation of the People (Second Amendment) Act, 1956 
(Act 27 of 1956) these sections 85, 86 89 and 90 underwent 
substantial amendments. After that amendment the Election 
Commission under section 85 could dismiss an election peti- 
tion for non-compliance with the provisions of section 81, 
82 or 117 (S. 83 was taken out from the purview of S, 85). 
Section 86 provided how District Judges etc, were to be 
appointed as Tribunals in prior consultation with the Hi^h 
Courts. Section 89 clothed the Election Commission with 
power ta withdraw an election case from one Tribunal and 
transfer it to another, Section 90 enjoined upon the Tribunal 
to dismiss an election petition which did not comply with 
the provisions of section 81, 82 or 117 even if it had not 
been dismissed by the Election Commission under section 
85, and a candidate not joined as a party to the election peti- 
tion was made entitled to be joined as a party on his applica- 
tion to the Tribunal within the prescribed period. It also 
required an election petition to be heard as expeditiously as 
possible as to conclude the hearing within six months as far as 
possible, vSections 91 and 92 remained as they were. Conse- 
quent upon the amendments in 1966 by which the filing as, 
also the trial of an election petition has been shifted to the 
High Court, as per the Representation of the People 
(Amendment) Act, 1966 (Act 47 of 1966), the old sections 
86 to 92 were deleted, as they had become redundant, and in 
their place two new sections 86 and 87 were inserted pro- 
viding for the filing of an election petition in the High 
Court and the procedure to be followed in its trial. 

12, I have traced above the changes that the provisions of 
old sections 86 to 92 have undergone from time to time, 
T^ooking at them as a whole, it is somewhat difficult to 
appreciate the logic of the petitioner’s argument that in 
view of the deletion of old sections 88 to 92 it is manifest 
that this Court Is now powerless to dismiss the election 
petition even though barred by limitation merely because it 
had not done so at an earlier stage. When he concedes such 
a power was possessed by the Election Tribunal under old 
section 90(4) then can it be argued that it does not exist 
for the High Court, which has since replaced that Tribunal, 
in the absence of anything to the contnuy in the statute. 
In fact, such an authority now cleaily vests in (he High 
Court under section 86 which enjoins upon it to dismiss an 
election petition which does not comply with the provisions 
of section 81, 82 or 117. SecLion 81 makes provision tor 
the calling in question of an election by means of an election 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


petition presented within the prescribed period section 8 I 
names the person 01 persons who arc necessary pm ties lo 
an election petition; section 117 refers to the sccuidv deposit. 

13. According to the respondent, as has been clearly laid 
down in section 81, an election cannot be challenged except 
by means of an election petition filed by the appropriate 
person within the prescribed period which is 45 days from 
the date of the election result, and if he is able to show 
that there was no such petition presented to the High Court 
within that period which is unextendable, then theie can be 
no question of thai petition being proceeded with for trial 
on merit because that was not an election petition within 
the framework of law on this point and he would be well 
within bis right to request the Court to Ihrow out in limine 
such a petition under the provision of section 86 without 
calling upon the parties to its trial because that will involve 
them in unnecessary expenses and botherations of litigation 
besides loss of Court’s time. In his submission the factum 
of admission of this election petition is of no material conse- 
quences to tho other side lo resist respondent’s objection 
against its maintainability on this score because that order 
of admission which was just conditional subject to limita- 
tion, was made when he was not there and as soon as he 
has appeared on the scene he has raised this issue at the 
earliest opportunity because such a defect, if any, is vital 
and goes to the very root of the petition and once it has 
been bi ought to the notice of the Court it must be heard and 
decided without wailing for its decision along with the 
decision on merits of the other issues involved in the case. 
To support this view reliance has been made on respondent’s 
behalf on the Supreme Court authority in K. Kamaraja 
Nadar v. Kunju Thevar (A.I.R. 1958 S. C. 687) and the 
Bench decision of this Court in Mohan Singh Oberoi v, 
Shah Md. Umair (A.I.R. 1964 Patna 268) following that 
Supreme Court case. 

14. The above Patna case related to the election petition 
in which the election petitioner Shah Md. Umair had 
challenged the validity of the election to the Parliament of 
Mohan Singh Oberoi, In due course, the respondent therein 
filed his written statement. Before the issues in the case 
were settled the respondent filed an application to the 
Election Tribunal under section 90(3) of the Act praying for 
summary dismissal of the election petition for the reason 
that it suffered from the non-compliance of the mandatory 
provisions of section 81 of the Act because the copy of the 
election petition as served upon him did not contain the 
annexures attached to the main petition though they formed 
part of the petition and repeated reference had been made 
of them in the body of that petition. The Election Tribunal 
rejected that prayer of the respondent for disposing of that 
preliminary objection before settling the issues in the case, 
saying that the proper course appeared to be to postpone the 
hearing of that preliminary point at that stage and proceed 
with the settlement of issues and in the issues so settled to 
have n specific issue or issues if necessary on that point and 
then if the parties so desired they could address the Tribunal 
to hear that preliminary issue first and dispose it before 
hearing the case on the other issues and if and when such 
piayer was made that would be considered on merit and 
according to law. Against that order of the Tribunal the 
respondent moved the High Court by means of a writ peti- 
t^fim which was allowed and the Tribunal's order was set 
aside w T lth the direction that it should proceed to hear and 
decide the preliminary objection so raised with regard to 
non-compl iancc of section 81 of tho Act, and thereafter, 
proceed in accordance with law. Tt may be noted that the 
piovision of this section 81 as it stood at the time of High 
Court’s order in that case in 1964 was substantially the same 
in respect of annexures to the election petition etc. as they 
exist at present in section 81. Tn making this order their 
Lordships, V. Rumaswami C. J. and N. L. Unlwalia, J (as 
they were then) relied upon the aforesaid Supreme Court 
authority in A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 687 which had earlier been 
followed by the Patna High Court in Dhananjoy Mahto v. 
R. K. Singh and others (16 E.L.R. 99). In the Supreme 
Court case it was held that a preliminary objection with 
regard to non-compliance of the provisions of section 117 
(relating to security deposit with the election petition) should 
be entertained and decided at the initial stage and should 
not be relegated to the stage of hearing of he petition, 
hollowing this decision of the Supreme Court, their Lord- 
ships of this Court in the above Dhananjoy Mahto's case 
where the preliminary objection regarding non-compliance 
ol the provisions of section 117 regarding non-deposit of the 


; JUNE 16, 1 973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2149 


security money was taken laid down that if a preliminary 
objection is raised to an election petition that the provision 
contained in section 117 oi the Representation of the People 
Act as lo deposit of secunty had not been duly complied 
with and the election petition is, therefore, liable to be dis- 
missed under section 90(3) of the Act, such objection must 
be heard and decided before the petition is tried on merits. 

15. In view of the above discussions. 1 do not think, 
there can be any lea^nl hurdle to entertain this objection of 
the respondent in which he has objected to the maintainabi- 
lity of the election petition beinp hit by limitation etc. and 
its consequential dismissal as enjoined by section 86 of the 
Act. 

16. Before 1 proceed to examine the merit of the respon- 
dent's contention regaiding the election petition being hit 
by limitation 1 would like to dispose of his other point 
which has also been urged as a ground for its dismissal 
at this stage. It is said, since the election petition at the 
time it was presented did not accompany with it the re- 
quired affidavit in Form 25 the election petition had to be 
treated as not a complete and proper petition within the 
meaning of section 81 of the Act and must, therefore, be 
dismissed for that major defect. He has urged that since 
in the election petition the petitioner had made specific 
allegation of cornrpt practices against the respondent it was 
mandatory upon him to annex with tho election petition 
itself when it was presented such an affidavit and if he 
did not do so that is obviously fatal and needs its summary 
dismissal under section 86 of the Act. I am, however, un- 
able to accept this contention for the following reason. 

17. The above affidavit is required to accompany an elec- 
tion petition on the provision of the proviso to section 83 
of the Act read with rule 94A of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 196L Regarding being had to the allegations of 
corrupt practices as made in the election petition, the peti- 
l loner was required to swear such an affidavit and annex it 
to the election petition at the time it was filed. This was 
obviously not done and he supplied this affidavit on 3-4-1972 
(Election petition was filed on 20-3-1972). The dismissal of 
the election petition under section 86 is contemplated for 
its non-compliance with the provisions of only section 81, 
82 or 117, There is nothing in section 86 to read that 
non-compliance of an election petition with any of the 
provisions of section 83 will also entail its such dismissal. 
As it appears from the election petition, at the time of its 
filing, it had on it besides the usual verification two affi- 
davits, In the first affidavit he testified to the correctness 
of his averments in the different paragraphs in the election 
petition as they were based on his own knowledge also in- 
formation received from his woikers and supporters. In 
the second the petitioner swore the correctness of Annexurc 
T in which he has alleged specific act of corrupt practice 
against the respondent as he had learnt from tne College 
Principal concerned. 

18. Jn the case of Mahesh Prasad Sinha v, Manjay Lai 
and others (ATR. 1964 Patna 53) their Lordships while 
considering a similar question had held : 

“The substance and the matter of the essence embodied 
in the proviso is that when allegations of corrupt 
practices are made in the election petition, it must 
be accompanied by an affidavit, but the requirement 
of its being In the prescribed form is not of the 
essence and is directory. Before the amending Act 
27 of 1956. for nonzfompliancc with the provisions 
of S. 83, the penalty provided in the Act was dis- 
missal of the application by the Election Commis- 
sion under S. 85 or by the Election Tribunal under 
S. 90(3) of the Act. But no such consequence is 
provided ip the Act as it stands now after the 
Amendment of 1956. Tt is, therefore, clear that 
even for ^ the nonffiling of the affidavit along with 
the election petition as required by the proviso 
in question, the whole of the petition cannot be 
dismissed in limine. Tt may well be that in that 
even the allegations of corrupt practices in the 
petition have got to be struck out as being mv 
nccessmy under 0 6, R. 16 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure or some other consequences may follow 
even (hough not specifically provided for in the Act. 
But if the election petition is accompanied by an 



f Par i II— 


2150 THF CiAZEITTl. OF INDIA : JIJNF, 16, 1973/,) YAISTHA 26, 1895 


offidavii, the allegations of corrupt practices muA, 
in the election petition cannot be shuck out merely 
because the affidavit is not in Lhe prescribed form 
Or is a defective one, That being so, the intention 
is cm lied out and the object is substantially achieved 
if any affldavjt is filed in suppoit of the allegations 
of the commission of coinipt practices and the 

particulars thereof 

19. boll owing this decision of our Court, I am unable 

to subscribe to the view canvassed by the respondent that 
since the election petition at the time of its filing was not 
accompanied with such an affidavit it must be treated to be 
not a proper petition as to entail its dismissal under section 
86 for this defect. As already pointed out, the petitioner 
did subsequently covei up this lacuna on 3-4-1972 by filing 
this affidavit, Moreover, the petition at the time it was 

presented had with its the aforesaid two affidavits relating 
to allegations of corrupt practices In the.se circumstances, 
the respondent’s request for summary dismissal of the elec- 
tion petition for this reason appears to be without substance 

and must be over ruled. 

20. It has not to be considered whether the election petition, 
as presented to the Court, is barred by limitation. Admittedly 
the result of this election was declared on 2-2-1972 in 
which the respondent was declared elected having seemed 
majority of valid votes, lhe period pi escribed for presenta- 
tion of an election petition calling in question the election 
of the returned candidate under section 81 of the Act bv a. 
candidate or an elector, as the case may be, is 45 days 
from, but not earlier then, the date of the election of the 
returned candidate. Computing on this basis the last date 
on which this election petition, which the petitioner has 
filed as an elector of the constituency, should have been 
presented latest by 1H-3-1972. As against it, it was filed 
on 20-3-1972 (at 4.05 p.m. in my chambers). So, on the 
face of it, it has to be treated as having been presented 
beyond the presci ibed period. 

21. Under the Court Election Rules "the Judge” has been 
defined to mean the Judge or Judges of the Court (High 
Court of Judicature at Patna I who, from time to time, have 
been assigned by the Chief Justice under nub-section (2) of 
section 80 A of lhe Representation of the People Act, 1951 
for exercising the jurisdiction of the High Court under sub- 
section (1) of section 80 A. As rule 6 of these Rules is 
worded, though not expressly but impliedly it requires the 
election petition to be made to the fudge in open Court. 

22. As I have already shown, lhe election petition of thL 
case was presented in my chambers on 20-3-1972, though 
In normal course its filing was necessary at the latest by 
18-3-1972 The petitioner m his supplementary affidavit 
(filed on 3-4-1972) has tried to explain this omission on 
his part by asserting: when he contracted his counsel Mr, 
G, P. Roy on 18-3-1972 (Saturday) to file an election 
petition the latter asked him to come again on 20-3-1972 
(Monday) at 10.30 AM, when he would present the election 

etition in open Court because he could not do so on 
a turd ay and Sunday when the Court was not open. Ac- 
cordingly, he reached the High Court on 20-3-1972 at 
10.30 A.M. when the election petition was presented for 
affidavit which was done at 2 P.M. and he also deposited 
the necessary seemity of Rs. 2000/- on that day; the counsel 
(Mr, G. P. Roy) had also learnt on enquiry from the 
Court’s Flection Office that no Judge of the Court was 
specifically assigned by the Chief Justice to dispose of the 
election petitions of 1972 and that the Chief Justice had 
not come to Court on that day (20-3-1972); as on that 
day two Judges (C, P. Sin ha and T. Narain, JJ.) who had 
been assigned by the Chief Justice to try election petitions 
of 1971 were on that day sitting in two different court-rooms 
and Mr. G. P. Roy was conducting Flection Petition No. 7 
of 1971 in the court of J. Narain, J., at 3 P.M. ho asked 
the petitioner in thut court-room to stay there along with 
this election petition till 4 P.M, so that he could present it 
to that Judge when he is about to rise; accordingly, the 
petitioner was waiting in that court-room with his election 
petition when at 3.55 P.M. his counsel Mr. G. P. Roy 
offered to present the election petition to him; (he Judge, 
however, asked the counsel to file the petition before 
C, P, Sinha, T., as he was the senior of the two; when 
the counsel pointed out to him that it was already 3.57 P.M. 
and the other Judge was holding court at the other end of 


the building and it may not be possible for him to present 
the petition to that Judge in time then he was asked to 
file it in his chambers if by that time that Court had 
risen: on this the counsel rushed to the Sessions Court in 
which C. P. Sinha, J., was sitting, but by the time he 
reached there the Com l had risen and then the counsel 
went to his chambers and presented the petition there at 
4.05 P.M. 

23. It is clear from the body of the election petition that 
everything regarding it was done on 20-3-1972. R was pre- 
sented and aifidavited before the Oath Commissioner on that 
day and the necessary security deposit regarding this peti- 
tion was also made on that day (20-3-1972), On these facts, 
it has been urged for the respondent, there could he no 
question on petitioner’s part even to attempt 
presentation of this petition to this Court at any time prior 
to 20-3-1972. 


24. As already observed, such an election petition must 
be filed within 45 days from the date of the election result, 
and there is nothing in the Act which is self contained 
under which this Court can be said to possess power to 
extend this period, In the case of an election appeal filed 
under section 116 A of the Act, the Supreme Court is em- 
powered to entertain it even after the expiry of the pres- 
cribed period of 30 days if it is satisfied that the appellant 
has ‘yLifficient cause for not prefering the appeal within that 
period. There is, however, no such enabling provision in 
the case of an election petition to be filed before 
the High Court under section 81 of the Act. There 
is no dispute that the Indian Limitation Act has no 
application to an election petition and the limitation 
about it is as prescribed in the Act itself. In the case 
of K, Venkateswara Rao another v. Bekkam Narasimba 
Rcddi and and others (A.T.R. 1969 S.C. 872) it has been 
held that the Limitation Act cannot apply to proceedings 
like an election petition inasmuch as the Representation of 
the People Act is a complete and self-contained Code; it does 
not admit of the introductions of the provisions of law con- 
tained in the Indian l imitation Act, While holding so, 
their Lordships have, however, observed that even though 
the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 does not apply to an elec- 
tion petition provisions like sections 9 and 10 of the General 
Clauses Act, 1897 providing for computation of time which 
are in pari materia with sections 12(1) and 4 of the Limita- 
tion Act would apply to such a case, While examining the 
applicability of section 10 of the General Clauses Act their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court in H. H, Raja (Harinder 
Singh v. S. Karnnil Singh and others (A.T.R, 1957 S.C, 271) 
have observed that broadly stated, the object of section 10 
is to enable a person to do what he could have done on a 
holiday, on the next working day; where, therefore, a period 
is prescribed for the purpose of an act in a court or 
office, and that period expires on holiday, then according to 
this section, the act should be considered to have been done 
within that period if it Is done on the next day when the 
court or office is open. For that section to apply, therefore, 
all thaf is requisite is that there should be a period pres- 
cribed and that period should expire on a holiday, 

25. In the case at hand provisions of section 10 of the 

General Clauses Act cannot be invoked to justify the pre- 
sentation of this election petition on 20-3-1972 (Monday) 
instead of 18-3-1972 (Saturday) because the latter was not 
a holiday of the Court, It being a Saturday only the Judges 
were not sitting in Court to do judicial work, which was 
in keeping with Court’s long standing practice, Court’s 
offices were nevertheless open and fully functioning on that 
day (18-3-1972). Merc non-sitting of tho Judges in Court 
on a Saturday, which they do to be able to finish their 
i cserved judgments, cannot make it a closed day for the 

Court. It is in this context that in the High Court calendar 

when Sundays and other holidays are shown in red, a 

Saturday is shown as a working day like other working week 
days. In fact, on some of the Saturdays Judges do sit in 
Court and transact judicial works like other week days 
Tn Civil Review No 3 of 1965, Md. Owais and others 
v. Phul Bjbl and others, disposed of by this Court on 

28-4-1965 learned Judge, K, Sahai, J.. in the review petition 
as time-barred because it had been filed on Monday instead 
of the preceding Saturday on Wiich the limitation expired 
While doing so he clearly held that Saturday is a court 
day and the office keeps working on that day and simolv 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2151 


because the Benches do not sit on a Saturday because it 
is kept opart for writing the reserved judgments etc., it 
cannot be said that Saturday is not a court day. 

26. No doubt, in the reports called for from the Court’s 
oftice they have testified to the correctness of the averments 
of the petitioner in his above supplementary affidavit regard- 
ing his counsel's attempt to present the election petition at 
3.55 P.M. on 203-1972 in the court of J. Narain, J,, and his 
Lordships observation that he should do it before the senior 
fudge (C. P. Sinha, J.,), thitf on 20-3-1972 he learned Chief 
Justice had not come to Court and also that till that 
day the Chief Justice had not specifically assigned any Judge of 
the Court for 1972 election petitions. But, m will appear from 
the subsequent discussion, on these facts alone the election 
petition cannot be treated to have been filed in time. 

27. As noticed above, rule 6 of the Court Election Rules 
impliedly enjoins for the presentation of an election petition 
before the Judge concerned in open Court. Its proviso 
permits the presentation of the petition before the Bench 
hearing Civil Applications and Motions on any Court day 
when the Judge concerned is not available on account Of 
temporary absence or otherwise. This proviso could not, 
however, come into play on that. Saturday (18-3-1972) be- 
cause on that day neither the Judge nor the Civil Applica- 
tions Bench were sitting in Court. According to rule 7, 
the date of presentation of the election petition to the Judge 
or the Bench, as the case may be shall be deemed to be 
the date of Its filing for the purposes of limitation. On this 
basis, the respondent has contended that since the election 
petition was presented on 20-3-1972 that must be deemed 
to be the date of its presentation for the purposes of limi- 
tation and it. was in this background that the Court’s Stamp 
Reporter had pointed out in his report that the limitation 
in the case expired on 18-3-1972, which was two days before 
its actual presentation. 

28. Rule 24 of the Court Election Rules says that the 
Patna High Court Rules, except in so far as they are 
inconsistent with these Election Rules, shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to all election petitions, and where no specific pro- 
vision has been mad© in the Act, Civil Procedure Code of 
the High Court Rules the Judge may pass such orders as 
he may consider necessary. 

29. Rule 26, PartTI-Chapter VII at page 37 of the 1972 
Edition of the Rules of the High Court at Patna, 1916, 

rovides that on any Court day on which no Bench is or 
as been sitting, any memorandum of appeal or application 
which might be barred by time and while is entertalnable 
only by a Bench may be presented to the Registrar or, in 
his absence fiom Court on that day to the Deputy Registrar, 
or in their absence, to the Assistant Registrar, who shall 
certify thereon that such memorandum of appeal or applica- 
tion was on that day presented to him; provided always that 
no such presentation to the Registrar, Deputy Registrar or 
Assistant Registrar, shall be of any effect unless such memo- 
randum of appeal or application be presented to a Bench 
on the next subsequent day on which the Bench is sitting. 
In the instant case, as it appears to me, this rule 26 was 
clearly attracted in the contect. The election petition was 
going to be time barred on that date, l.c., 18-3-1972, and 
the election petition was entertainable only by a Bench 
but no Bench, single or Division, was sitting on that day 
being a Saturday. As this rule 26 stands, it cannot be 
said to be in any way inconsistent with any of the Court 
Election Rules. In fact, in these Rules there is no provi- 
sion to meet such a contingency. The above referred to 
proviso to rule 6 does not provide for the presentation^ of 
an election petition on. a Saturday when no Bench is sitting, 
rather it permits presentation of an election petition to the 
sitting Civil Applications Bench on a court-day when the 
Tudgc concerned Is not available due to his temporary absence 
or otherwise. Thus, reading the provisions of these rules 24 
and 26 together, the inescapable conclusion is that it was 
Incumbent for the petitioner to have presented the election 
petition to the Registrar, Deputy Registrar or Assistant 
Registrar of the Court, as the case may be, on 18-3-1972 
on which its limitation was going to end and the Judges were 
found absent from Court being a Saturday. 

30. By reference to the provision of rules 3 and 13 of the 
above Patna High Court Rules (Part I- Chapter II, at pages 
6-7-) Mr. Chatterjee has submitted that it was wholy beyond 


the competence of the Registrar to accept the presentation 
ol the election petition even if done, because the matter 
related to exclusive original jurldication of the Court which 
could not be delegated to the Registrar in any circumstance 
and that presentation had to wait for the Judge sitting in 
Court. As such, the respodent cannot invoke aid of this 
rule 26 to challenge the legality of its presentation before 
the Judge on 20-3-1972 which had necessarily to be resorted 
to make the presentation proper and legal. I am unable to 
appreciate the correctness of this contention. Rule 3 provides 
for hearing or presentation of the matters specified therein 
Court or in Chambers, as the Bench may direct. It also 
provides for the filing of every other appeal, motion or 
application, except entertainable by the Registrar, Deputy 
Registrar or Assistant Registrar in open Court. Rule 13 sets 
out the powers and duties of the Registrar over and above 
conferred on him by other rules. Rule 26, is, however, 
wholly unconnected with these rules 3 and 13. It (rule 26) 
occurs in another Chapter dealing with procedure before 
admission and obviously provides for a contingency for the 
filing of an appeal or application which is becoming time 
barred and is to be filed before a Bench in court, But on 
that day the Bench is not sitting. The manifest object 
behind this provision is to save limitation in the matter 
which would otherwise inevitably follow. The question of 
Registrar or Deputy Registrar or Assistant Registrar, as the 
case may be, not being competent to exercise this power 
in the case of an election petition because it concerns the 
special original jurisdiction of the Court, to my mind can 
hardly arise because, as I have already indicated, in the 
Court Election Rules itself (vide rule 24) this rule 26 
has been made directly applicable to the presentation of 
an election petition also in those circumstances. 

31. The next contention of the petitioner that in view of 
the definition of the Judge, as it occurs in the Court Elec- 
tion Rules, the Registrar of the Court, who is just an 
administrative figure in the hierarchy of Court’s staff, can 
in no circumstance be taken to be authorised to accept the 
presentation of an election petition under this rule 26 ap- 
pears to be equally untenable. Registrar’s authority to exer- 
cise this power, in a given situation, is fully established 
by reading the provisions of these rules 24 f\nd 26 together. 
As they stand, the position of the Registrar as a simple 
administrative figure on the Court’s staff Is not relevant on 
this point, As shown above, he has been specially authorised 
by the Court in the Rules as framed bv it in those circum- 
stances. His status in Court’s hierarchy is, accordingly. Im- 
material because when he has been so empowered by the 
Court he can well exercise it Irrespective of that statu*. 

32. The authorities in Babu Lachmeshwar Prasad Shukul 

and others v, Babn Girdhari Lai Chaudhuri and others 
(A.I.R, 1939 Patna 667-F.B.) and Badri Narayan Singh and 
others v. Kalyan Prasad Shroff and others (A.I.R, 1956 

Patna 522) relied upon by the petitioner to negative the 

stand of the respondent in this behalf. I am inclined to 
think, with great respect, are of no material assistance to 

him, As their perusal will show, the facts therein were 

wholly different and distinguishable. Jn the first, the ques- 
tion m the case concerned was regarding condonation of 
delay which the petitioner had made m depositing the amount 
of printing costs in a Federal Court appeal. The decree 
of the High Court in that case, as it appears, was signed on 
13th February, 1939 and on the 11th May, 1939 the appel- 
lant filed a petition under Order 45 Rule 2 of the Code 
of Civil Procedure. The High Court vacation was from 
12-5-1939 to 23-7-1939. On 29-5-1939 notice gf the amount 
of printing costs was served upon the appellants and they 
tendered the money on the 24th July, 1939 on which the 
Court had opened after the vacation and it was accepted 

by the Registrar of the Court subject to any others passed 
bv the Bench, The limitation in that case expired on 16th 
June, 1939 which was within the vacation. It was urged for 
the appellants that since the Court was closed for the vaca- 
tion they could not make the deposit until the opening day. 
Their Lordships in the majority judgment held that the Court 
is not closed during the vacallon and the money can be 
deposited and if tendered will be accepted. They further 
held that the deposit for printing costs may be made when 
the Court is not sitting but when the office is open. They 
further felt satisfied that there has been considerable mis- 
understanding as to what business the office of this Court 
transacts during the vacation as no orders have been issued 
as to what the Court will do or will not do during the 
vacation. In those circumstances, they thought that the ap- 
pellants honestly believed that they could deposit the money 



2152 


[Part 11^ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


on the opening day. Accordingly, they held that there were 
cogent reasons in this case for extending (he time lor making 
the deposit and ordered the office to accept the deposit 
so made. In the present case, there is no question of the 
election petition having been made during the Court’s vaca- 
tion, sp as to give rise to any such confusion. Here the 
almple question, is whether the petitioner’s filing of the elec- 
tion petition on 20-3-1972 Instead of 18-3-1972, on which the 
limitation expired, because ft Cl 8-3-1972) was a Saturday 
was a filing within time. 

33. In the second case, I.e., A.T.R. 1956 Patna 522 their 
Lordships have held the entertainment of the execution 
petition a valid presentation before the Second Officer in the 
absence on tour of the Subdivisional Officer who exercised 
the powers of a Subordinate Judge and had exclusive juris- 
diction to entertain it undei the Santhal Parganas Justice 
Regulation, even though he (Second Officer) had no written 
authority in his favour to do so, The petitioner has in 
this case tried to rely upon their obiter which is to the 
effect : “When a Court competent to entertain an applica- 
tion for execution is absent on tour and there i$ no other 
officer competent to receive such application the Court must 
be held to be closed for purposes of S, 4 Limitation Act 
so long as Court is absent.'’ As 1 have shown above, the 
provisions of the Limitation Act have no application to an 
election petition. Moreover, on my above showing, it would 
her evident that there was a competent authority, namely, 
Registrar or Deputy Registrar or Assistant Registrar of the 
Court, as the case may be, on that Saturday (18-3-1972) 
before whom the election petition required its presentation 
to save it from limitation as it was going to be time barred 
on that day. 

34. To counteract the above obiter of the learned Judges 
respondent has called my attention to the Division Bench 
authority in Sajjan Singh and another v. Bhogilal Pandya 
and another (A.I.R. 1958 Rajasthan 307). The relevant 
question was whether the recriminatory petition under sec- 
ion 97 of the Act as filed on 12-8-1957 was in time. The 
other side objected that it has been filed beyond the pres- 
cribed period of limitation of 14 days of the commencement 
of trial which was said to be 23-7-1957. The recriminatory 
petitioner tried to meet (hat objection on the ground that 
the Election Tribunal (which was the District Judge, Udaipur) 
did not sit at Udaipur from the 5th to Uth August, 1957 
and sat for the first time there on the 12th August and also 
that it had not appointed anybody to receive petitions and 
notices etc. On its behalf upto that time. The Tribunal 
accepted that pica and treated the recriminatory petition 
within time. In appeal to the High Court, their Lordships 
rejected that plea and held that petition to be beyond time 
on the ground, inter alia, that though the Tribunal was 
away on official tour but the Munserim of the Court was 
throughout available and (hat petition should and could have 
been submitted to that Munserim without any difficulty to 
save it being time barred, 

35. The fact of non-assignment of Judge or Judges by 
the Chief Justice for trying 1972 election petitions till 
20-3-1972 and the absence of the Chief Justice from Court 
on that day, to my judgment, is not particularly helpful to 
the petitioner to overcome this hurdle of limitation. As 
the Court's records show, previous assignments by the Chief 


Justice of myself as also J. Narain, J., were ip respect of 
specified election case® as filed in 197L The trial of this 
Election Petition no. 1 of 1972 was assigned to me by 
the Chief Justice in his order dated 26-3-1972 (notified In 
Court’s list on 27-3-1972). Undei that very order he also 
assigned to me the election cases which might be filed 
arising out of the general elections held for the Bihar 
Vidhan Sabha in 1972. It is, however, not quite under- 
standable as to how (he petitioner can avail of these facts 
to justify the delay made in presenting this election petition 
on 20-3-1972, cither before me or before J. Narain, J., none 
of whom according to him was till then assigned by the 
Chief Justice to entertain and try any election petition of 
1972. The situation in this behalf was also the same on 
18-3-1972. As such, it was all the more necessary for 
him to have availed of the provision of aforesaid rule 26 
to present the election petition before the Registrar on that 
last day of limitation, i.e., 18-3-1972 on which no Judge 
was sitting in Court being a Saturday, and then wait for 
its formal presentation in open Court again as required under 

that rule, which, in the circumstances, would have been 
the Chief Justice, as he had not assigned any other Judge 
for the purpose till then. But nothing like this was done. 

36. Thus, after having carefully considered all the abpve 
facts, I have not hesitation to hold that the presentation of 
this election petition on 20-3-1972 was obviously beyond 
the period of 45 days as prescribed in section 81 of the 
Act, This being so, it must be deemed to have failed to 
comply with the provisions of this section (81). As already 
pointed out, section 86 of the Act enjoins that the High 
Court shall dismiss an election petition which docs not 
comply with the provision of section 81, 82 or 117. In 
view of this, this election petition found wanting In com- 
pliance of the provisions of section 81 has got to be dis- 
missed as such without compelling the parties to proceed 
to Its trial on merits. 

37. Tn the result, the election petition Is dismissed under 
section 86 of the Act. Parties shall bear their own costs. 

C. P, SrNHA, Judge. 

PATNA HIGH COURT : 

The 26th March, 1973. 

[No. 82/BR/1/72] 
A. N. SEN, Secv. 

H" «■ ■ | II | J 

Ww, 7«r«r arf? urunfr nrnf tf'srmv 

1973 

*5. 31T. 1682. Ws 1949 (1949 

38) WT7T 9 ^-URT (2 4 OT* (*) q? 31*^ 3^ 

* TOr ^ sjfi 

Mv w SWl) Stf ¥T. q*, 3TT 275, TOfa 

12 *rraf, 1953 ^ uvr qrf arftrw 

^ *rcqrT7 qi anfcr wrfor 

4 q? qi ftnj ftjqfq; 



Sec. 3(ii)3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2153 


13 srrier, 1873 ft fcrofmfoflq qfa $Wf*r fM q fro ft? MV 

g”, TOfft; 

a) 'fW ft?— rpm? aft? tt?ui®s 4 tito tot nhr, 

TO 1 ? ^7 TOT qi?7T TOT7 {pkl 4 ft? 
7TTO~ft? i 

(2) Tfyrftr — afpti ?ftqr, ftw, ftr^, qt’-'TOi^ qi 

7tto tot qftftftft srf? ftqqnftk, Mroq aft? 
3rftk#ft 4 ft? 7TTOft? I 

(3) ^ ft?— arw, ft?m?, tott#®, u^kr, qfroftt 

tot?, ark ??to ^ ttto ^ '?tottw 

toV, ?to I to 3ttV aftV ftfaku 

ft to nro-ft? i 

(4) ft? — ?W7 toV, ?wto, TOrqqkr arift 

< MWM *1' < I I 

(5) tw/) ft?—? Wnrurr, Ptotto toV, ?to -aft? 
TOftft TOT ftHT? ft 7TTO 3fk krrft TOT Wftf3 
ft TO 7TTOft? I 

[TO 7/16/73-311^. 3ft. ftt.J 
3TR. ft. TTWTO, 3>T7 Ttf^T 

MINISTRY OF LAW, JUSTICE & COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Company Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 1973. 

CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 

S.O. 1682,*—1 n pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section (2) 
of section 9 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, (38 of 
1949) and in supersession of the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Indus- 
try (Department of Company Law Administration) No. S.O. 
275, dated the 12th March, 1958, (as amended from time to 
time) the Central Government hereby specifies the following 
five regional constituencies w.e.f. 13th April 1873 for the 
purposes of elections to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India under the ®aid clause, 
namely : 

Western Region i — 

(1) The States of Gujarat and Maharashtra and the 
Union Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu and 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 

Southern Region : — 

(2) The States of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Mysore, 
Taml Nadu and the Union Territories of Pondi- 
cherry and the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi 
Islands. 

Eastern Region i — 

(3) The States of Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Orissa, 
West Bengal, Manipur and Tripura and the Union 
Territories of Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and the 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 

Central Region ; — 

(4$ The States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh 
and Rajasthan. 


Northern Region! — 

(5) The States of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu 
and Kashmir and Punjab and the Union Territories 
of Delhi and Chandigarh. 

[F. 7/16/73-IGC] 
R. K, TALWAR, Under Secy. 


^ 24 1973 

TO, 3TT. 1683.— ?TOhTTO7 TO ksNrW? TOTO TOT aftft- 
fftw, 1969 (1969 TO 54) TOT 20 qft TO-TOT (3) ft 

ft, ttotr ftftft ftqrro intftaV} 

kfqfte ft spfro arhrfftTO ft aroftr qftt- 
qrro (qqfkrw totot-to tttot 224/70 froro 24 arq^T 
70) ft kwftq- y? qft 3 rfirr^TO qnft f 1 

[TteTT 22/48/72-TO (2)1 
TO. TOM, TOT TitTO 

New Delhi, the 24th May, 1973 

S*0. 1683. — In pursuance of sub-seclion (3) section 26 of 
the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, (54 of 
1969), the Central Government hereby notifies the cancella- 
tion of the registration of M/s. NATIONAL MACHINERY 
MANUFACTURERS LTD. under the said Act (Certificate of 
Registration No. 224/70 dated the 24th October, 1970). 

[No. 22/48 /72-M(Il)] 
S. BALARAMAN, Under Secy. 


fa W +iniwH 

(toto kV ftmr kvrft) 

7T? 1 fWt, 3 1973 

aTO-qq 

to. an. 1684 . — ^totto? ftt TOfWt ft fro ?? ^rhr^f'ro 
frorr tott ft 1 fft TOft? ff? qfTOf, fftf?? qik - - 

qkt ^ttt ftft qkk ttot qrt, totto aftftkw, isei ftt 

TOT 35 qft TOTOT (1) ft iTOg (2) qt TOtrof ^ fro q^ 

qft arqf ir 4 , k^rr tot f i 1 

3ntV, 1973 ft TOfft zftfft i 

ftwr 

wiftro TJkqro r^ knf to cqroftV 'TO3 toVt 

HT3k kkdk, uro 6 i 

w . 342— to ft. 203/17/73-on^. ftt. (?. 23 

ftt. tft. »Tyr»TyTTOtT, 3q-TrfTO 



2154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part IT— 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue & Insurance) 


New Delhi, the 16th June, 1973 
CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 3rd May, 1973 
INCOMETAX 

S.O. 1684. — It is hereby notified for general informa- 
tion that the institution mentioned below has been approved 
by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, the prescribed 
authority for the purposes of clause (ii) of sub-section (1) 
of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 for h period 
of two years. The notification takes effect from 1st April, 
1937. 


S.O. 1686. — In exeieise of the powers conferred by clause 
(d) of section 7 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) 
and of ail other powers enabling heieunto the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby appoints tho port of Sinbhor situated in the 
District of Diu in the union territory of Goa, Daman and 
Diu to be coastal port for carrying on of trade in coastal 
goods with all ports in India. 

LNo. 96(F. No. 574/1 /73-LCII)] 
K. SANKARARAMAN, Under Sccy. 


INSTITUTION 

DHARMSINH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION PVT. LTD,, 
BOMBAY. 


fawiT) 

1 f fa#, 29 Jfa , 1973 


tNo. 342— F. No, 203/17/73-1TA, II] 
T. P. JHUNJHUNWALA, Dy. Secy. 

sfa fa?#, 11 y# 1673 

H. W. 1685.— 3TPT-^T7 y fafalU , 1961 (1961 H 

43) # VRT 2 4 GT* (44) ^ 7TO (3) f717T 

H 1#y IT# y7H7, # 4 . # <#, 

# ifafa y7H7 4 (MMfa sifaWt f", yw s^tyfayy 
4 afak vj arfaWt # vfar# n ir#y it# 
faq 9T?U^ tf ITRft ^ 1 


n. w. 1687 . — #fa# fafayyy srfafayy, 1949 (1949 
n 10 #) # ym 56 4 ym ifar ym 53 ; fim iw vrfa^lr 
H *P#T <6# f^q, ifafa y7H7, yfa# fa# <tfa # fall- 
far 17 , qi^im yfair 157 # 3 “ fa gw arfafayy # ym 
11 # yiym (1) 4 sww # 7<n# afar irfanffar <lfa 

fa., 3#1 1? 26 WFW7, 1971 29 fa7m7. 1972 US # 

smfa ^ faq yy^ i# i 

fa. qrs, 8/2/73-q. #.] 
ht# 3fy7 yfar 

(Department of Banking] 


2. y? arfa^RT, # arfa^wT y. 177 (yrr. y, 404/ 
ez/n-wf # # #), yfaer 14-6-1971 n arfmynr m# 
# Tpn ## 1 

fa. 349(11. y. 404/124/73-3^. #. #. #1 

qy. qy. yfam 3 p*tt yfay 

New Delhi, the 11th May, 1973 

S.O. 1685. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
clause (iii) of clause (44) of Section 2 of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri K. P. Pandharkar, who is a Gazetted Officer 
of the Central Government, to exercise the powers of a 
Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2. This notification which supersedes Notification No. 
177(F. No. 404/62/71-ITCC) dated 14-6-1971 shall come 
into force with immediate effect. 

[No. 349 (F. No. 404/124/73-1TCC)] 
M, N. NAMBIAR, Under Sccy. 


New Delhi, the 29th May, 1973 

S.O. 1687.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 53 read with section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recom- 
mendation of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares 
that the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 11 of the 
said Act shall not apply to the Rabkavi Urban Co-opera- 
tive Bank Ltd., Rabkavi, for the Period from 26 November 
1971 to 29 September 1972. 

[No. F. 8/2/7 3 -AC] 

•itt. wr. 1688.— #fafa fafayyy arfafayrr, 1949 (1449 
n 10#) # ym 56 4 mx ifar ym 53 fim up yfar# 
n mty n# ^q wvzn, yfafa fa# <ffa # fan- 
far it, qy^im it# f fa sw yfy fyyy # ym 
11 # 3imr (1) 39wy # yrm farm irnfap 
#15 fa., 17 30 fayW7, 1971 31 fa w , 1972 7T75 # 

smfa 4 faq yT^ y# r# i 


1# fa?#, 16 3f7f, 1973 

11. WT. 1686. — #1T-7|7'1) arfyfaw, 1962 (1962 H 52) 

# ym 7 4 <a ,j e (y) ^~im rpy yfay# $y fafary 
yy# <r# u# y# spy irfay# ^ imty i# 
i^q, ifafa y7H7, yfa, qyw #y yy 7ny^fa #y 
fatf # fan fawrh 4 my # irn # y# m# 4 
yn yrfaf yn # mu i# 4 faq r# wr 4 wx 

# fa*£W n# f i 

fa. 96 (n. y. 574/1/73 qn #-2)i 
4 . wim, an7 yfay 


fa, qir. 8/2/73-q. #.] 
nr# arm yfar 

S.O. 1688. — In exeieise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 53 read with section 56 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the 
recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India hereby dec- 
lares that the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 11 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Bhabar Vibhag Nagrik 
Sahaknri Bank ltd., for the period ftora 30th December 
1971 to 31st December, 1972. 

[No. F. 8/2/73, AC] 
K. BAVANL Under Secv. 



Sec, 3 (ii) J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2155 




*T$ 4 ^T, 1 97 J 

*To wTo 1 G 8 9, — fktf , TFF TrftffRq-, 1931 % *RTof 1973 ^ 2 5 Tt RRf §4 IW*T 

7R 


tffarf fq'VTPT 3r 7?i 
Tr: 


^fr tt# 5^r 


wf 


57,61,90,000 
5679', 27, 54,000 


Wf 


57 36,89,44,000 


f^r 


5736,89,44,000 


STllTrRT 

fiH ftr^ri jfflr 

R: — 

(*r) mr<T fr wr ym 
(^sr) ^TT^T T" <T Tt£7 "CSTT 
gm 

f^ntvft ttFt ‘^ f^T ^TT 

aft? 

WT ^rr fWT 
'JTRTT *H>FR 7R7 

srfwfaqt 

kft fafrR f^r *rk 

^FTt TO 

jjrt mfronT 




182,53,1 1,000 


1 71,65,38,000 


354, 1 8,49,000 
3,35,63,000 

5379,35,32,000 


5 736,89,4 4,000 


rfktST 30 *rf, 1973 


Ro WT7 


25 *T$, 1 973 ^ STFh fV*T|TT TT fa*TJT 



ftront 


mferqt 

w 

WTTT .... 

5,00,00,000 


57,61,90,000 

mfftifff ftfET 

150,00,00,000 

«f,t fTpffrr 

5, 0 0, U 0 0 



f^*Pi 

3,83,000 


^ f^r4) ffrftr 

209,00,00,000 

wk i)J7T4 R f^TT 


fr^r ^ ^ (f^rrW^T) Prfu 

45,00,00,000 

(t) tuft 

1 6, 5 4,23,00 0 

nc|l^T ifhfrfiiT ^ (Mf»r<ir«T P>ptr) f^ffy 

1 7 5,00,00,000 

(»?■) f^nNt 


^nnrifw : — 


(^t) frwift ji 1 *i ( 

3 1 4, 8 3, 4 6, 0 0 0 

(w) ^nsnfr 


Prkft $ vn pT wnrr * 

23 1,3 5, 27,000 

(i) 

•ft-rfTr 

^ 46,86,30,000 

fatvr** . 

22 8, 9 8, 98, 0 00 

(ii 

<T5TT ^Tf^fT , 

6,27,79,000 

sfff ^rftnr . — 


(w) i 

Nr 


(i) kltT *rrt 


(i 

ST^P^rT qTWR m 

327,67,06,000 

(ii) TTJCT H <+ffT . 

1 32,75,01,000 

( li 

W^f^RT 71^4 ^T^TTfr 

15,77,51,000 

^T S{V, ; 


(lii 

tK tnj^Pro fT^r 9^-rO ^ . 

1,18,83,000 

(i) mpJTR kn jpt[- 

108,12,95,000 

(iv) 

<R ^5fT 

63,16,000 

(ii) or 

212,03,21,000 




(iii) jkt ¥t 

4,70,22,000 


(*r) sr 


feT 






^rnr, srfR *fk Wvt 
(V) tftf ^Tftm : — 

(i) rm fu<HO *f?r 

(ii) ttr wn-fr W rr 

(lii) 

(iv) i i,h1^tt ^r 

80.91.59.000 (*j) ksfa 4TT £ fawfT *t 

Tf^tq- ^Rf (ft«rtt«RTJT ) ffrfa 

^ ’rtt sfnr trftr*r 

83.19.27.000 TT^T ^ 

tp^r *kfrfW qm (fl4+i*frr fRtf) 
fHftr ^ ^j-u RR sft <, PR^r 
473,36,92,000 (^) fWRT R ^T qfR 

(tf) f^nr w gro sntt fW R arrsl/ 

(Wiff jr Ww 

*r snferqt .... 

1619,88,43,000 TOt 


65,51,06,000 
1 9,40,17,0 00 

29,70,00,000 
1 1,24,73,000 


29,45,86,000 


9 5,09,3 6, 000 


62,42,59,000 

1619,88,43,000 


*wfr tRto w *k qwpmR vrrfw ft i 

*+7j^ *rfa flrotf) Rfa tfk tRR wkfrfqr ir (tfR'FT^fN fkR) Rfa (r ^ f^r wifTO % i 

(a, ^c°r (^tqwf^r fcmr) M^r sniff ^ ifk^rfR inrPr^^ Tfg fRTTTTff ^fr f^n? r ^li^r ft i 

ifcm wt hkt i 7(4 )(tt) % ’Ttfpr Yr Ki'q rii f^ft ^fpr fW 11,35,00,000 

fR uufow ft i 

-fTT^TT yfor ^HTT f^^TTq ) rfF vf^ir ’CT (ff^nTR) Mtf TOTT ^ tfVf trrrfiT^T ft) 

rnft^ ■ 30 197 3 rr^o if^T; 

|5° q»o 1 ( i)/7 3-^owto-i] 

=q*o q-o ?PTT 



2156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[Part II — 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Now Delhi, the 4th June, 1973 

S. O. 1689,— An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 25th day of May, 1973 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs, 


Rs. 


Notes held in the 
Department 
Notes in circulation 

Total Notes issued 


Banking 


57,61,90,000 

5679,27,54,000 


5736,89,44,000 


Gold Coin and Bullion ; 

(a) Held in India 

(b) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 

Total . 

Rupee Coin 

Government of Lidia Rupee 
Securities 

Internal Bills of Exchange 
and other commercial paper 


182.53.11.000 

171.65.38.000 


Total Liabilities 


5736,89,44,000 Total Assets 


354,18,49,000 

3,35,63,000 

5379*35,32,000 


5736,89,44,000 


Dated tho 30th Day of May, 1973* S. JAGANNATHAN, Govornor 

Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, Banking Department as on tho 25th May, 1973 


Liabilities 


Capital Paid up ..... 

Reserve Fund ...... 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opera- 
tions) Fund ...... 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund* 


National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) 
Fund ....... 

Deposits : 

(a) Government 

(i) Central Government .... 

(ii) State Governments .... 


(b) Banks 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks 

(ii) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 

(iii) Non-Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 
(lv) Other Banks ..... 

(c) Others 

Bills Payable 

Other Liabilities ...... 


Rs. 

Assets 

Rs* 

5, 00, 00,000 

Notes ....... 

57,61,90,000 


Rupee Coin ....... 

5,00,000 

150,00,00,000 

Small Coin . 

Bills Purchased and Discounted ; 

3,83,000 


(a) Internal ...... 

16,54,23,000 

209,00,00,000 

(b) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 

314,83,46,000 

45,00,00,000 

Balances Held Abroad* .... 

231,35,27,000 


Investments** ...... 

Loans and Advances to : 

228,98,98,000 


(i) Central Government 


175,00,00,000 

(ii) State Governments© 

Loans and Advances to : 

132,75,01,000 


(i) Scheduled Commercial Banksf - 

108,12,95,000 


(ii) State Co-operative Banksf 

212,03.21,000 


(lii) Others .... 

4,70,22,000 

46,86,30,000 

Loans Advances and Investments from Na- 

6,27,79,000 

tional Agricultural Credit (Long Term 

Operations) Fund 
(a) Loans and Advances to : 



(i) State Governments , 

327.67.06.000 (ii) State Co-operative Banks 

15.77.51.000 (ili) Central Land Mortgage Banks . 

1,18,83,000 (iv) Agricultural Refinance Corporation 

63,16,000 (b) Investment in Central Land Mortgage 
Bank Debentures ..... 

80.91.59.000 Loans and Advances from National AgricuJ- 

83.19.27.000 tural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 

473.36.92.000 Loans and Advances to State Co-operative 

* — — * Banks 

Loans, Advances and Investments from Na- 
tional Industrial Credit (Long Term Opera- 
tions) Fund 

(a) Loan’s and Advances to the Development 

Bank . 

(b) Investment In bonds/debentures issued by 
the Development Bank .... 

Other Assets ...... 


Rupees 


1619,88,43,000 


Rupees , 


65.51.66.000 

19.40.17.000 

29,70,00,000 

11.24.73.000 


29.45.86.000 

95.09.36.000 

62.42.59.000 
1619,88,43,000 


^Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities* 

** Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit 
(Long Term Operations) Fund. 

©Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary 
^overdrafts to State Governments. 

flncludes Rs. 11,35,00,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section !7(4)(c) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act. 

JKxcluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agri- 
cultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund. 


Dated the 30th day of May, 1973, 


S. JAGANNATHAN, Governor. 
[No, F. I (l)/73 B.O.-l] 

C. W. MIRCHANDANI, Under Secy. 



2157 


Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


ftFV k-uwv 

F? 1 f'qwft, 29 Hf*, 1973 

W. W. 1690 [lit. k. k./l/: 3] . — d <ffrh ajftr- 

kw, 1922 (1922 FIT TIFFT) rat HITT TRET FklFHk FT 

FFkr rak ^tr <&?r TRrar7 pk *ft k. k. tt. mr k 

3mRT 97 appTtwTT 7fk k TTFF - iforT raV FVT 7^- 

kfk k 7 mnt Tf^ra «ft tt rarfW art Ft 4 mf, 1973 
k if Trkt mkt 5^ k arktiw m HireHi r k 
gnrriTft k isf' k k rakt if \ 

[it. TT. 3 (24)#'9T7/eo] 

et. k. n^T'-nr err, 3 th 7 irkra 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 
New Delhi, the 29th May, 1973 

S.O. 1690 [CPEO/4/731 In exercise of the powers con- 

ferred by Section 3 of the Emigration Act, 1922 (VII of 
1922), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H. 
Kasim Khan, Protector of Emigrants, Mandapam Camp & 
Tiiticonn, to be Protector of Emigrants, Nagapattinam, in 
addition to his own duties with Effect from the forenoon of 
the 4th May, 1973, during the absence on leave of Shri 
B, V. S. Rao. 

[No. R 3(24)V, IV/603 
T. V. RAMAKRISHNA RAO, Under Secy. 

qrVuf^ 

3IFlV 

Tf 1 krk, 16 1973 

•FT. 1691. — kkk tTT577 rat 7TT k kl krk 

(Fmket fwr kV kit^jra) Htuk mr, 1993 (1B63 ft 

22 ^ WT7T 6 ^TTT N ^ rri FrfFrrF")' FT FHk FTTlt MTTf*" 

k fl^k <mHT7 k kram k kit? (T^JT TIFT aiHTHra kt 

k fra Fmk/ic ra k^fa it ^ rarai k.-t famm- 
Ft? kV^m k armr rW 1 

sift mr: qWta TT7FT7 =t tftt fuNr k kt? kit fafk- 
frit fhttj k ariV krafir (FFifWt kkrarar 
3 ffV kiit^rra) V-i -H , 1964 3 ? km 11 k TT-fkrT ( 2 ) 
W* Tmtknr krafir Fkr^ rat kr km k 

3FT: 3DT, Bmr TT-krTT k 3T^«yu| k, kkhr inraT7 
TW FRTFf Fit 3Rk kTRR: Wk?T ftt FTk fra n k 
Fit k krF imkir rank k 1 

2, T? IgRT k Tk mfmr Tmr tT R iq l 

7 ? Frcf 4' arr^kr m t^ptt ^htt k ^ 

^ 7NnT5r k ilihi'd'i Hick k tfk ^ anrr 
fktrk knkw “qk iter, hi $, zgk, 
( 7 k Hkrcr), Hn-nrRT-i k kr train ^ 1 

FRIT 

(1) T 6 ktikw T7"ir FRj-kfkr fork Tf 
Fmkfk krtkw k7 kryVn- ^ ^nfk 

(2) 9-fliIW) i'HqqOi kj kcf&TW ^ JTF>T7 k 57T 

<f> a ftfv k kk m? FT^'kfrrr krrk (mnkkf kkr tr 


<af7 fkfklW) fkFT, 1973 k FRF" 7? 3TH7TT7 «fFT- 

kk km k? krT^FF ^ htt ftti 4 rt k 
kkrkk ftrt k qk Fi^-kfkFrf k fo rk k 
fkl; 

( 3 ) HT77fk m krk k 3 rt rtkk jtrt hr;- 
kkrrf t kn^ frt kkq ir 7i h? tr rf fftht 
^ki) 

( 4 ) tkt FT^-kfkr ^ 3k7fkk mpm ^ kkr kmk 
TT HF HT Fkkv THT 17 tm k TTH? 7 FV 

kirk (Frarkkt krrw kV kr^^rw) 3rkrkrw, 
1963 (1963 tt 22 ) fA utt 7 4 anfk wrkiTr 

kkl k krrk knkur arfvmw fTtr km nm 
?m rntfR fit imimpr 7jtk FT^-kkmt 
F7 Vf Hik FFikk? kkmn - kr krVf^r tl kr- 
km tthP - k ?“ 3ik ff kmk-Fkr 5 “ 1 

3. ?m ttfV 4, “FT^kkkT” if qkr mr k*nk ^ 
k mfkFT TTTFRT Fl^HUFkn TFTT 7t FT^ k »fk7 
kkk §“ k7 h^htr tttf ^ 7mr httfi! ul^nr 3 “, kr^ 
?hf 5 kirkr m kiFk k nuk if 1 

TFIF'U 

krrk (FFikrk krmim k7 krff^TW) 3rkikrmr, 1903 
(1963 fit 22 ) k unr 17 f? akk mm? 7rk i: kn? FTmfkr 
FTTCT-klF T | 

1 . Tfkrm hr 3fk fttwt.— a) im kmrt ft ftt ft^- 

mfkr krrk (FFikrk krrw kr kk^rm) krw 1973 

if 1 

(2) k k FF[HT TW I 

2 . FkvTFTrf— rr kmk k, ft ht ikk f 5 armrn 
kf^rr T ft .— 

(T) '‘arkrkrmT’’ it krak (Frarkik kkw k7 kk- 

^rw) ktrkmr, 1933 (1933 m 22 ) kkk 3 s *, 

(a - ) “ariWior” k 'k?fk rtr fftt kkkrmr rat 
vnr 7 ^ artfk Ffkk, mrnr, ra ht mi, *pra^ r jjt 
k^ft k wki krk kk^r kkrark k <> 
ft?? 1 tm kkkr f“, 

k) '‘FFj-kfkra” k ckr kr kkk t k mrkrra 
TTFim FFptv kn tftf- it ft^ rat kn kkm if 
k7 H^rti tftt f5 ftt nrrat ukm f, kr?^ 
3Rrkr kFkra m krak nk *“ 1 

3 . Fmkkt krkmr ki knV*r— ( 1 ) Fr^-kft^T^-f ^ 
FFTkrk kmrt it tff^t trok k kkkk kkrr 
y^FTt tikir TF-knr ( 2 ) k kkftfk kkmV 4 

Framt ft knrwf tt Frk ft7f5 ikkrTra rat 

HFjk; 

( 2 ) TF-k *1 -h ( 1 ) k rakk krkrFfnr h ifi^h f? kkRr 
Frank ft kkrara kmkrkRT krrw fkt, ariik .• — 

d) ikkr nm FtFru ki Frra kkw.~ (ra) ftt 
kkkk, krkukr Fifnr fki? mk Fik 
ftfr m FTFrt Fi F^rt ram Ffiramak nff7r 



[Paul’ It— 


2158 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAlSTHA 26, 1895 


(p(wf[ Peeje PeeteP qft wmPq'E qn4 

TETP ET44 I 

C75D e%e q <Vrf qi ete et ?rf eetftt qq qm 
PePeVY i tft appear! qff qrq4 37 ? ift^E 
qftETimiE-qT gtnT et 44 qftepq swr 4 * 
irt4 *n EEfq; qnVr 4 e^ 4 qftsPT te PePe- 

1 4 EE q4 3) p t,5 1 ' q dl Eh (OT T <4 4 T?T? 
PeePee *rq 4 Petet EFjqT i EEnqr 4 qft^E 
jrEW-qrf 41 q^Pftr ete4 4 Petj eet 4 qnr 4 
ete ee q<ViY 4 4hr >*p ee ePe-ete 4f ete 41 i 

ce) 3 tt4 et 4 qqVff qll, etP?sEe4e ee^e eNrt 4 
feTE, TE fqfqf?rf 4 SE^nETT I^PeP^IE ET^ 
4 P« o Pi <Yiy u i aift qV^nir Petet 5in?n i 

CE) pEft^rw eet qE'^rw qrq far? et4 4 e^eie, qfe- 
<nVr 4 ePee ^ 3 t< or arft TEft P-ridi^ 
ql Peii ®qqfiEE e^ePe aiqEiTt EFEfl 1 

(w) ste^ee PeeteP 4 44e if Wet arPvrftsr 'e- 
Piee ?pt 4 ref et44 1 

(2 ) we Peeke j — C^) PqPEEfar 4 PeP^e teteP 
4 Peti PqPEEfETaft gEE PqkjE ettit PePeeV 

EEF? El44 I 

(w) ete Nfofsrt 4^ Pe^ eteP 4 Peeee 4 
Pep EEqqrq/EErqnrt 41 ee(4i e^eot rffl 1 

ce) PePhhIV 4 ete 4 qftTE eeIe Pte ep Pee- 
eeP e4 3iw qrl e?te eet4 4 Pep ee^e aiPr^ 
7 ft ete4 1 

( 3 ) ewie V*i«l^iif ^ — ced PiPnf4i 4 ee - hiid 
PqP q^ 'V 4 arE^EI T?TH ^T q^^UT qn4 ET 
^ q4 qffyw ^ H/qyrq' 3 M et 

^ q^^rw q4 *£firwT trf 1 *W nq; qr^ 3 M 1 
yrr^ ^ qqfqr arfE^s" ^ 3mE4 1 

(jq) qWqp EqtsET q4 ^ruffEr f^ejw qf^jw ^ 

3E^TT7 Slfq q4 5TF?fl I 

(4) *nq-fa^rr thrift t^hnq :— arf? f^iVq j4 

qtqqrf ariV 3jqq> t u i T q4 qqiTra ^rra'/afqr- 
3uhET fqrqT vHiqjif arfV qqi w $ w? 4 1 t?Ep 
sttvf^gr qnq 1 ^ 1 

( 5 ) 4Npt :— ' 4TqrE fqfqrV 'i'miffYrr 

snqrTT i 4V3r W- fqqr qi4 aiWY qr- 

4tqqT f?rq f^t 1 eeee q^m 41 

Y'qrqT -sn'FTT, 3 Pm | r n i" 

(qs) t*^* <n t» qV^nq : — ^1 F -pi q*6 sriV 6 41 - 1 steI -srtV 
e 4 fe 7 q4 arh et ^ ^ 12 41?7 

qqs ^q)M T 5m?TT <j4V t e! ett tWI ariV t tit 
jf qq^ ^ q^ stfq yt 1 

(cr) wq^^nr qtf$nq : — 4q^r qy arqqqqr ?f4 qr^fl 
ETtiTW qwi4l *4W ^ q7Tq7 qpft q^ qf^E qNr 
fiET2 nqt q4 qnryft artV ^ieI 1 Tsfl q^ q7 Eipwr 
q4^ EETT E# *faT ETf^ I 


(e) Vni^ui ! — Pqqfq fqni 3n4 qt4 qE^-44« ^ 1 qq 
Y'l e?, 4o 4 ^ ?ee fqrqr 5rn?TT qq^f^EET 
( 2 ); hfq^ Pqq'qurf qrr ^eet wrt qq 
Eqfqqqq! Wq ^qrqr eet t qEt^ft^'q; 
Eete: ?qfq^Vf q ■> ar^rq- if 1 , 

4 . farrtw trfVqr : — Ci) ?Eqfn' _ q!Erf ee - srY’qqmT' 
qrf, f^TE 3iftHHi?wi if qg qwig irqi q?rq if Pste4 

f^rqfq fqrqT eeit f, fsriW «fqr ^ if41 ^ 
ew 3ET 3tr rq w y|qun-qr 41 i^et fq qEj-E’ffeqrl qq 
qiVr Peee 3 if fqfqf^e fqqqurl ^ aEpm qqriWl 
fwm EEErt qn W e qn?f M eWe fqrET eet if et^tet 
et 3 “ art^ qiVq pr eeIee ql f'Ei? E r ^q i mki fH T' q ^ifiT 
q4 ap^TTarf 4 appunr if I Efqwi^ 3 E 5 *nrf sq 37 T IVr- 
w, ee qnft 41 3pfVr fi aifiqrFr q4 f»rET ef?e 1 

( 2 ) ^rqfrr-qrEf et ?qfE?EfqT <nVq ti ?eteit ee! eiet 
qfr-qfEnrE M gn Ei- fy^ 41 artww qrl ^et i 

(3) ET'fEEE Cl) q? 3 t41e EE^ ^^EET aif? EfpqT'EE" 
fqfEEfqr ^ qf^n 4 EiVir ^ 44 ee^ 4 ete 4 
qrq ^e ffE" it 4 atfvrqrrq q5 qq^f^E 4 1 ig,E 

EIET Elf^Tl I 

C4) EE-fEEE Cl) Eft (2) ^ artffE l^EET afft EfqniT 
it mt?r rf4 <n arfEqrw, anrEt eb eeeee jt et4 

T? fqi fqfEEftr ^ EETE ql EftlE ftfEE 3 if W4- 

EEfE qqiftr41 ftiqquiY qq eeIe IVet eet 
g“, aift tnVr e4 efep fqftpfftrl 4 E^qq i 
^^ftrftiw qn4 >4 ftpi aift 41 ftnVr et qftgFr 
qi <4 ^ qifEiE 10 Yq 1 ^ 4ta< srr arrqrE qq itefE' 
te 4 et Pq5 qqVr qqifti41 ftrEEW e«t ftnV 1 ! 
4 44ftqr q4 yi etett if, aift ?EEfrr-EftE 
if 1 et qnf 41 arfVqnor ^qnr apf^T qfl etp, pEEftr- 
TEf 3 pt 4 qii<ai4/iTfETE if 4 eie; -hVIc e. V q5 
eh^I ftr:q^q! 4nr 1 eeiPe, anqqEqs ftn^pq evt 
ift^pq qrr4 w arfWrq ^qqr E^ ePct 
et44 : 

E 7 E 5 ET ariWir qq TE qqqi eetoie e# ?Iet t 
qr eb w w frr q4 We 4fR 4 et eett-et 44 
4 3TE7 qn 4*n eet 441 griff ^ qqw 44 ee e4 

ET^EET PEEftr-qrqf q4 4 et I 

5 . ftrftw qq ww :— 3E - ftrEEt 3 <^4 e et4e 
ftrftEw M‘n i-i 14 1 ^ ePtet n Petet eteet i 

e. ftnVqjflE :— qljE-q4ftr-fE!i?^-ii^r ql 1 irfrof 
q4 E7 4 e4e, e! qrq 4 ete et eT ttte 3 M. pETfrr- 
qrqf gqqr affEErw e 4 pEff^rw qflE q! teet 4 1 41 ETt?4 1 

7 . anffor :— cdPete 4 ^ et-Pete C4) e? art/lE arftr- 
qi < u l 5T71 TTEFTET 44 4 jj'e'K E> < P^ 1 ] Et4 4 3 ePeE Eiftf 
cqfw, eee^ ^qqr 441 grift e^thi efe qr?4 4 10 Pte 
4 41ei Pqqfrgft 4 4 ee e 4 aiftr qr? etet f pEEft ete 
4 ete 4t*i sEpqrr 44 ?44 e! 4*4f^ ron ^ete g e h«4- 
eet4 Pe^ee Pqrq e^ \t 1 

C 2 ) Pqftqgrl 4 4 ee tt affti^EE qrr4 4 Pet? ee4 
4ftr Pqftqgrt 4 ejihN ft41 1 

( 3 ) 441 arffr qq ?qE 4 ee qq PePetee 31Pee ?141 i 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16. 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2159 



miyft 

fVrF $ 

(fm 3 fe ^ftnr) 



TH HO fMfaPT/'TftlSH ^ pqrwifftjirf 

n^STHT 

TT TO 

nte mw; 

1 2 

1 

4 

5 . 

I «rtffT n*n rnrnn itct VfaR ^ fV ftrttt ftrt 


FFtT 


FTFT 



(T) (TPMHrH TftHTHH 

fnWn) % sr^Hp- 



\1 j 

(*r) HTtf dTT( HfifH fanT* 




O’) 

wtw 



(il) 

Vtw 


H7^T rife 



nfnPTfad % nron: 




tt frfwr f^qr 


(h) 

HntTH 


neurit 

II ftofaw q*T tftt 




(q?) fffann fnfwm (TnfVmH tfft 'tIththh 

W VfeR ^ fferr TRTTTT 



H%f) 

stfh npifr fapTCurr £ 




wgm 



(**) wV ?rfV fw^ 




0) 

Vrrr 

H *ti 


(ii) w»n 


3rF*Ti>i fa n v^qq y i ^ ^rrarr 




tar Ttwr 


(n) 

wim 

1 ‘I’d 

>1 c*3t ^ ^ 

III WfWT 




(v) vpi'-qfatw tormn 

VtTT 

n^Tff 

JR^TT 

(iff) iftWH 




(i) mwrm 1 M -1 Vstt 

qfeWd 

sni^r 

5R^T 

(ii) q^-n^ffm 




(*) CTHHT (Pmtft) 

nntffn 



(m) STFfflrTT <3PTcT "| 




(fq^n Tiffed ^ STT 

Htff TT 



*) 

(»w*Tftrcfr j 

nntffH 

7^ 

srnfo 

m?V wt ir) 




(iii) Mn^mr tt muK 1 ! 

wpih 


5)^1! 

SPfiTt M^Wl 




(i) mPa* Tftffm (h^wPfh 

nntffn 

t ^ 

nft% fMr^r nrr 

ryqiM ) 

(ii) f^^&^^^PrfVTOHtit'TT 

VtTT 

T^7 

nn'TfH 

Min fa^n-ton qPr 




f iii) inrirt'wii^'fl rift: hhit vd sthht 


TT^ 


( iv ) cioi qft (and 

ffVt 


nntffn 

(v) HtffflT HHI Pi'll HlfV'l TT ifa Pf H 1 

VfTT 


nn>fn 

fafa 'rfYsro 




(vi) qftffffT nTHt fflT ffffTlJ, fffff HI 1 ! ?t, HTH- 



nnW 

HTH ?T fff« Hf?H 




(vii) H$T nm TfPfTO 

ffV 


nnifd 

IV torn* 




(»f) ftm-Mn 




(i) *mwt 

wim] 

T^fT 

TT TOT^T 

(ii) nteTii 

iT«TTfrT 

IT Iff 

FvftTT 

(iii) Hwror tofrti 

W] 

rr^ 


(n) 




(i) HHT WTHWPT 

FFtn 

*r* 

3T?^T FFT 

(ii) irfm^nr 

WV 

ft 


(iii) HtHKHHPrCm 

ffttt 

FT 

F«ftTT 

(iv) mnsrpRitr 

n«frw] 

FT 

Tfif IV Tpj TF TT VtT 





V. ton 




(^) ^^Ti'i h <.\ tin 

n«ftw 

1 

F^T TtF’F 

(iff) ^TT iriPfrT 

nnW 

WtTT 

FVfVnF 


[*T© G( 37)/72-faoft-o <5ffe 


31 GI/73 — 5 



[Part 1 1— 


2160 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th June, 1973 

S.O. 1691. — -Whereas the Central Government is of the 
opinion that, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 
6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act. 1963 
(22 of 1963), it is necessary and expedient so to do for the 
development of export trade of India that air compressors 
shall be subject to quality control and inspection prior to 
export; 

And whereas the Central Government has formulated the 
proposals specified below for the said purpose and has for- 
warded the same to the Export Inspection Council, as re- 
quired by sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality 
Control and Inspection) Rules, 1964; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the said sub-rule, the 
Central Government hereby publishes the said proposals for 
the information of the public likely to be affected thereby. 

2. Notice is hereby given that any person desiring to for- 
ward any obections or suggestions with respect to the said 
proposals may forward the same, within thirty days of the 
date of publication of this order in the Official Gazette, to 
the Export Inspection Council, “World Trade Centre”. 
14/1-B, Ezra Street, 7th floor, Calcutta- t„ 

PROPOSALS 

(1) To notify that air compressors shall be subject to 
quality control and inspection prior to export; 

(2) To specify the type of quality control and inspection 
in accordance with the draft Export of Air Compressors 
(Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 1973, set out in 
the Annexure to this Order as the type of quality control 
and inspection which shall be applied to such air compres- 
sors prior to export; 

(3) To recognise the Indian or any other national standard 
as the standard specification for air compressors; 

(4) To prohibit the export, in the course of international 
trade of such air compressor unless the same is accompanied 
by a certificate issued by any of the Export Inspection Agen- 
cies established under section 7 of the Export (Quality 
Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963) to the effect 
that the consignment of air compressors satisfied the condi- 
tions relating to its quality control and inspection and is 
export- worthy, 

3. In this order “air compressor” means a machine which 
draws in air from an initial near atmospheric pressure and 
delivers it at higher pressure, but shall not include an ex- 
hauster or vacuum pump. 

ANNEXURE 

Draft rules proposed to be made under section 17 of 
the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act. 
1963 (22 of 1963), 

1. Short title and comm en cement, — (1) These rules may be 
called the Export of Air Compressors (Quality Control and 
Inspection) Rules, 1973. 

(2) They shall come into force on the 

2. Definitions.— In these rules, unless the context other- 
wise requires; 

(a) “Act” means the Export (Quality Control and Ins- 
pection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963); 

(b) “agency” means any one of the Export Inspection 
Agencies established by the Central Government at 
Cochin, Madras, Calcutta, Bombay or Delhi under 
section 7 of the Act; 

(c) “air compressor” means a machine which draws in 
air from_ an initial near atmospheric pressure and 
delivers it at higher pressure but shall not include 
an exhauster or vacuum pump. 


16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


3. Quality Control and Inspection.— (1) The quality of the 
air compressors shall be ensured by exercising the controls 
at different stages of manufacture specified in sub-rule (2) 
together with the levels of control specified in the Table 
annexed to these rules; 

(2) The controls at different stages of manufacture men- 
tioned in sub-rule (1) shall be the following controls, 
namely : — 

(i) Brought out materials and components control : 

(a) Purchase specifications shall be laid down by the 
manufacturer incorporating the properties of ma- 
terials or components used and the detailed dimen- 
sions thereof with tolerances, 

(b) The accepted consignments shall be either accom- 
panied by a producer's test certificate corroborating 
the requirement of the purchase specifications or 
jn the absence of such test certificates, samples 
from each consignment shall be regularly tested to 
check up its conformity to the purchase specifica- 
tions. The producer’s test certificates shall be 
counter-checked at least once in five consignments 
to verify the correctness. 

(c) The incoming consignments shall be Inspected and 
tested for ensuring conformity to purchase speci- 
fications against statistical sampling plan. 

(d) After the inspection and tests are carried out, sys- 
tematic methods shall be adopted for proper segre- 
gation and disposal of defectives. 

(c) Adequate records in respect of the above mentioned 
controls shall be systematically maintained. 

(ii) Process Control : 

(a) Detailed process specifications shall be laid down 
by the manufacturers for various processes of manu- 
tnre. 

(b) Equipment/ Instrumentation facilities shall be ade- 
quate to control the processes as laid down in the 
process specifications, 

(c) Adequate records shall be maintained to enable the 
verification of the controls exercised during the 
process of manufacture. 

(ill) Product Control : 

fa) The manufacturer shall either have his own testing 
facilities or shall have access to such testing faci- 
lities existing elsewhere to test the product as per 
the standard specification. Adequate records there- 
of shall be maintained. 

(b) Each and every assembly shall be checked against 
a laid down inspection check list. 

(Iv) Metrological Control : 

Gauges and instruments used In the production and 
inspection shall be periodically checked /calibrated 
and records shall be maintained in the form of 
history cards. 

(v) Packing Control ; 

A packing specification shall be laid down. The packages 
shall be well finished and shall have good present- 
ability. "They shall also withstand the following 
tests, namely: — 

(a) Rolling test.' — The package shall be subject to 

rolling on its sides either 6 metres forward and 
6 metres backward or 12 metres in one direction 
only and shall not cause any damage to either itself 
or its contents. 

(b) Water spraying test.— The package shall be allowed 
to be exposed against a water spray equivalent to 
a normal sudden monsoon shower for five minutes 
and the contents inside shall not be affected. 



2161 


Sec. 3(h)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


(3) Inspection. — The inspection of air compressors in- 
tended for export shall be carried out with a view to seeing 
that the controls specified in sub-rule (2) have been exercised 
at the relevant levels satisfactorily and the air compressors 
conform to the standard specifications. 

(4) Procedure of Inspection.— (1) The exporter shall give 
intimation in writing the agency under whose jurisdiction the 
factory, from which it is intended to export, falls and submit 
alongwith such intimation a declaration that the consignment 
of air compressors has been or is being manufactured by 
exercising quality control measures as per controls referred 
to m rule 3 and that the consignment conforms to the re- 
quirements of the specifications recognised for this purpose. 
Complete details of contractual stipulations be made available 
to the agency whenever requited, 

(2) The exporter or manufacturer shall also furnish to the 
agency the snipping marks of identification applied on the 
consignment. 

(3) Every intimation and declaration under sub-rule (J) 
shall reach the office of the agency not less than ten days 
prior to the despatch of the consignments from the manu- 
facturer's premises. 

(4) On receipt of the intimation and declaration under 
sub-rules (1) and (2), the agency, on satisfying itself that 
during the process of manufacture, adequate quality controls, 
specified in rule 3 have been exercised and after further ins- 
pection or testing to ensure conformity of the consignment 
to the standard specifications, shall, within ten days, Issue a 


JUNE 16, 1973/JYA1STHA 26, 1805 


certificate that the consignment satisfies the conditions relating 
to quality control and inspection and is export-worthy. As 
and when required by the agency, the exporter shall supply 
free of charge samples of air compressors from his factory/ 
godown. The samples shall, however, be returned by the 
agency after necessary inspection and testing : 

Provided that where the agency is not so satisfied, it shall, 
within the said period of ten days, refuse to issue such certi- 
ficate and communicate such refusal to the exporter along- 
with the reasons therefor, 

5. Place of inspection.— Every inspection under these rules 
shall be carried out at the premises of the manufacturer. 

6. Inspection fee.- — A fee at the rate of 1 per cent of 
f.o.b, value subject to a minimum of rupees one hundred 
shall be paid by the exporter to the agency as inspection 
fee. 

7. Appeal. — (1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of 
the agency to issue a certificate under sub-rule (4) of rule 
4, may within ten days of the receipt of the communication 
of such refusal by him, prefer an appeal to a panel of 
experts consisting of not less than three persons appointed 
for the purpose by the Central Government. 

(2) The quorum to constitute a meeting of the panel of 
experts shall be of its three experts. 

(3) The decision of the said panel of experts on such 
appeal shall be final. 


TABLE 

Levels of Control 
(See rule 31 


S. No. Particulars of inspection/test 

Requirement 

Sample size 

Lot sUe 

1 2 

3 

4 

5 

l Bought out materials Si components 

(a) Visual inspection (including workmanship and finish) 

(b) Dimensions with tolerances 

As per standard spe- 
cification recog- 
nised for the pur- 
pose 

Fach 

Each 

(i) Critical 

-do- 

Each 


(ii) Others 

-do- 

To* be fixed on the 
basis of recorded 
investigation 

Each lot 

(c) Any other requirement 

IL Manufactured components and sub assembly 

do- 

-do- 

Each lot 

(i) Vmnl i lsp^Mon (including workmanship and finish) , 

(b) Dimensions with tolerances 

As per standard 

specifications re- 
cognised for the 
purpose 

Each 

Each 

(i) Critical 

-do- 

Each 

Each batch 

(ii) Others 

-do- 

To be fixed on the 
basis of recorded 
investigation 


(c) Any other requirement 

Ilf. Assembly 

-do- 

-do- 

Each batcl) 

(a) Workmanship and finish 

(b) Tests 

-do- 

Each 

Each 

(i) General running lest 

(ii) Performance test 

*do- 

Each 

Each 

(a) Capacity (output) 

-do- 

Each 

Each 

(b) Specific power consumption (in (ho case of electri- 
cally driven compressors), specific fuel consump- 
tion. (wilh othei drives) 

At full load 

Each 

Tach 

(in) D: termination of the characteristics . 

Type Test 

-do- 

Each 

Tach 

(i) Mcchinical test (except endurance test) 

(ii) Specific power consumption at various loads from no load 

*do- 

One No. 

Once in a month 

to full load ......... 

-do- 

One No. 

-do- 

(ili) Volumetric and overall efficiency of machanism 

-do- 

One No, 

-do- 

(iv) Lubricating oil consumption 

-do- 

One No. 

-do- 

(v) Testing of loading and unloading mechnism 

-do- 

One No. 

Once in a month 

(vP Flow of cooling water, if applicable, wilh rise in temperature -do- 

On No. 

-ckv 

(viP Endurance test 

-do- 

One No. 

Once in a year 



[Part II — 


2162 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 

1 2 3 4 3 

IV. Preservation 


(a) Electroplating 

(i) Adhesion 

(ii) Thickness 

(iii) Corrosion resistance .... * 

(b) Painting 

(i) Flexibility & adhesion 

? i i) Scratch hardness ...... 

(Til) Corrosion resistance ..... 

(iv) Resistance to heat ...... 

V. Packing 

(:) Rolling test 

tb) Water spraying test ...... 

16 3^, 1973 

«PT. 31T.1092. — era - : ^TTTTT 4 T^rfm *91717 4 q5 

fan? Mmr tnqm 4 <rr^i«?r *rw*r qft qn*ffaqi wwnT 

tfqhrcr m qm am 1197 , mtfsr 15 arriV, i 960 

if mfrhpr qn^f n? ftsrq qrfaw niflii (r-nTwcl 

fawr art 1 ! tmqm, 1904 ^ faw n mr-faw 

(2) ftnr nrar *nqrrc 4 fWm « tfqt- 

W qft arftirf^tT m 9>T. srr. 2301, W. 3 1970 4 

mtffr HHRr 4 TTsnFr, araiwr, *tft 2 , er^g 3 , ( 2 ), 

3 ^tt^, 1970 q> ^ 1045 77 wfanr fqrq m3 4 , 

atf? w: marf Rwarm mnfarr ftt tt^ wrfwirt 

2 fmP 77 , 1970 375 37 ^ srtV fpm w 4 m3 «t, 

srft wi itstit qft nfmrf srmtr 97* 3 1970 

qrt m7?mr qrn tfp 1 

7W 7Tm7 77 3R7TT nim - 37*7 

77 awn ^qnr fqm 7 757 fcrqr mTT 

-anr, arm, fa-qftr (qqiVwi/i fmnw arft arftr- 

tmm, 1963 (1903 TT 22 ) qft «n¥ 0 ^TTTT 7 TF 7 Sif-Wiitf: 

77 Wm qntf ^q, 37777, fmrftr faVf$pr- Tfar^ 

M4 i -HJ<r qr^t 4 3 ^ mr tj fa w q? faqfa 

httttc 4 faqnm t? faq iM qrmr snqwR arft nW^ 4 1 , 
w 37777 ^ Ttfor^r TTTmr qft m 1197, m. 

15 snJV, i 960 # fmstfflfsra f, amf^ ;— 

mw srftTr^mrr qft if 1 ttr m 10 mn mrnfhm 

u fa fc? 7^ wrt q 7 ^H^Rsm rw imjm, 3 rvfq; 

“10 wi^mr (ar-^q sfk)” 

Cm e( 3 )/ 73 -fcr. tm. vfi f^r. #i 

ORDER 

S.O. 1692.- — Wheieas for the development of export trade 
of India certain proposals for amending the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce, 
No. S.O. 1197, dated the 15th April, 1966, regarding Organic 
Chemicals were published as required by sub-rule (2) of rule 
11 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 
1964, at page 1045 of the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, 
Part II-Section 3 — Sub-section (ii), dated the 3rd July, 1970, 
under the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S.O. 2361, dated the 
3rd July, 1970; 


♦do- 

One No. 

Each batch’s pro- 
duction 

do- 

Onr No. 

-do- 

-do- 

One No. 

-do- 

-do- 

One No. 

Each mix prepared 

-do- 

One No. 

-do- 

-do- 

One No. 

-do- 

-do- 

One No. 

Each consignment of 
paint purchased 

-do- 

1 package 

Each consignment. 

-do 

-do- 

Each design. 


No. 6{37)/72-El&EP. 


And whereas objections and suggestions were invited till 
the 2nd September, 1970, from all persons likely to be affected 
thereby; 

And whereas copies of the said Gazette were made avail- 
able to the public on the 3rd July, 1970; 

And whereas the objections and suggestions received from 
the public on the said draft have been considered by the 
Central Government; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) 
Act. 1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government, after con- 
sulting the Export Inspection Council, being of opinion that 
it is necessary and expedient so to do for the development 
of the export trade of India, hereby makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Commerce, No. S.O. 1197, dated the 15th 
April, 1966, namely : — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, for, Serial No. 10 
and the entry relating thereto, the following shall 
be substituted, namely : — 

“10. Sodium Citrate (non-pharmacopoclal).**. 

[No. 6 (3)/73-EI&EP] 

qfT. 3 tt. less.— f'fvfcr (qqriW^ arft f'm'fyw) 

1003 (1903 qri 22) qft uttt 17 wnr jtstit 
qriWrt mrim qntf 1513, q?^r smn, qrpffmR mum! 
qiT fmiftr (W^ror) fmnr, 1900 aift mtrhpr qr^ 4 
fm3 qm^ft ar*rf?r 

1. fawT qn- qmftms mum? qn fmqftr dW?- 
sjw) fynfk trahrm fmrm 1973 f 1 

2. qn^ra mrmrt m fmrftr 1900 

qft 4 qnr m 10 ariV ^rwqfiTrT qfq^e 4 wet 97 

t'HHfwfaq 733T snqm, anrftr 

“lo-mtTFrrr ( 3 r-*fqsfho” 

Cm 6 (3)/ 73'fq", ariVrTf. m] 

S.O. 1693. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1^63 
(22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Export of Organic 
Chemicals (Inspection) Rules, 1966, namely: — 

i 

1, These rules may be called the Export of Organic 
Chemicals (Inspection) Second Amendment Rules, 1973* 

2, In the Schedule to the Export of Organic Chemicals 
(Inspection) Rules, 1966, for Serial No. 10 and the entry 
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely 

“10. Sodium Citrate (non-pharmacopoeial)/’ 

[No, 6 (3)/73-EI&EP] 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


2163 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


vt. w. 1691.— fWtr (wrfWt fawr ^7 fatf- 

5fR-) 1963 (1963 W 22) VJ HT7T 7 ^TTTT HTW 

'TTT OTk *TOT?R r HITT tTTTTl V 

wot VI •3Thr5{^TT V. ^t. on. 480, ht. 9 qrprV?, 
1966 ^ SkRtafOT ariV tpfrhpr qrkt V, ardrr =— 

*nVrar nfVk ^ wtt <n kWsir ran sifftt, anrirr :— 

'To. ettffOT *TT?^5 (3T-»kVk)” 

W. 6(3)/73 k, fa\ V.] 

S.O. 1694. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 
(22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby mokes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce, No. S,0 
480, dated the 9th February, 1966, namely : — 

In the said notification, in Schedule II, for Serial No. 10 
and the entry relating thereto, the following shall 
be substituted, namely 

“10. Sodium Citrate (non-phannacopoeia!). 

[No. 6 (3)/73-EI&EP] 

^T° 1 6 9 5.— ♦jfxi'Tit ^TTT ftqfa (fftfftFT) PTTO, 1969 

ft Pnr*r 7 ft <y\ #, fttfnr nronT, *ttot ft 
fafor ^rmr thtttt jrtrft ftt stPi^ht ttq *ro mo 

2600, <TTo 27 ^T, 1969 *T JTfdVIW WVf JTJ, ^ 

nr^fV ft (2) *fPw*flf ft to% htwt ( 1 ) ftt 

^rr^\ yfyfe PptPt Pr^tom srPrer^r ft 

ft Pihh ft spfPT ftt q i i ft H'fNd ft 

Pi ^ fqitajn l ft ft if Pi^d a TTdt ^ l 

9775 if ?r ftrf tttft fftdV *rfr*r ftt fftrr 

wFg if w tr t *£7 ^ to jpfto ft tiifm 

^|f^‘ if TOT ^ *TCT 

^TTTtrft 


^ snffcTOTTvr, froft fftfir- ^rfad - fTOft qrr ^ 

iptt ft f *m. ’srfr^r ir 4 froftt *rfcr 

nrtfr | 1 ^ 1 

1 2 


1. frofa fdTtW ^fwTOT 1. «ft JTTTO IT^o itjp:,’, 

3 2TTTO 

fir 0 , Tun tit, jsrf , qf o 

5TT° 7166, ^T«rt-70 3TS?Tfff 

2. *ft fto TTiT^, 

ntff *To f^ro ; ^nrHTj qW, 

I 

3. ^ fto ipro w?, tt^o 

(^rw) qjo f^ro 
n-r 'froir^ ttt, 


1 2 



OT 3 fI, 

#0 ^2^ #^Pr>Kr 

ftro, 

t 3 t T-FiSI i *I‘T', tVt, Vitot 


i^tto, qtro fftftrq-, wrfw 

V#r wr trr, ^wrf-is 

1 

( % fWT ) 


OTT*T HWR, 

JT^f '70 

fm, 


VTOT 

ftf Pruf^r PRbJFT 

Tfrr?, 

Hl^viqr wfTO, SPT'T 


^Vft 113, nn 

^i- 3 — 

0 


2. froftr fdOw 5TfW?7Tl. STO OTTc ^ ^TRT 

Pfw tr* 

^fr^T — 32 TORT 

2 . p -ft ^nm: fh“?, top* 

f^To 45, 

qpTmr-is 

3 iro 

Tnft 

ffttpT 

4. O7T0 %3, 

taw f^o J 

tffo ?TTo fwTT 

tfo ft*TFT 

5. 3PHff, f^TT 

q^FR ffw qt^Tji 

22, TtT, 1 

TRfty:, W^^TT-27 

7 . to-Pt^w (♦fR , wr) f qftr, 

r 6TTrr ftt Pt^ft Prfl'M^T qfoTT^ 

14/1 4t, n^TTi (nfrnft 

nfV^r ) , — titi 1 - 1 Ttnl ’Ji^i 



2164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part It— 


1 2 


3 . Fm% ftrttepr r «fr 

TTJTK rT®TT HTVAta ^ ftf*. T(7 ^ ^ 

2. «ft- %o TOtwr*, no Agr 

qroft^pr fao, y\o ^7o fl’o i, *nf*r 

^FTHtT’ i 2 

3. *4t fto y^rr, 

A^rmr, %nr, 

4. >4t >*t Ptcrr, Prtarv, 

Ao 

qfaT, FJTRf 

5. TTT^n W, q^T, fft*T 

frrfr^FT *rra> TtHnrr fa° 

23? *iltf £ TtT, NSItf -6 

6. OT-Prtw (ftqfa ^^t)i *Ti*, 

TTrm-n- CTT Pwfa tffR’ ^ PrtOT 

TTT ^TRTH 

7 . ( t^t j Pprf?r f Prtt^rr 

qfArr^'^mr, 123, tte 

jrcmr-e 

4 . Profa ftrtw (rfw^T r ^ro ^o tfprpft, ffo 

f^ft A?fartt (srro ) fcr° ffan^rr 

’trwr 

2 , *fr Jfto IT*. *nFFT, A° 

3* «ft v&fz spnr opt ftrowr, frg; 
^rf^rr, stott 

4- far if srfwrft (^PI'TiI-Iwt) . 
^T*Tfcr-PT4wTW, rratft'fl’ frrror, 
fo*fr-i i 

5 * PliviT*, T3tT, *PJ NltfPr 
*l£ Pc^ft* 2 0 

6. <ft ^pt *gtr, 5mH f Pr«p firm 
wnrrfPr tflirtPitf tfpqrT, $fowrrcr, 
*rf focft 

7. Ayfr Ppt% fMfam 

*rfw*% fatft i3/7, qpmV 
farm «hr, uiA ^ftp* Tte, 

3PT ^ PwfV- 5 


2. Vt wjPt rfpr flpft 1 

[tfo l(27)/71-f®^®^o?c^o] 


S. 0*1695. — In pursuance of rule 7 of the Export of Ceramic 
Products (Inspection) Rules, 1969, the Central Government 
in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Foreign Trade and Supply, No. S.O. 
2600 dated 27th June, 1969, hereby appoints the persons men- 
tioned in column (2) of the Table given below as pand of ex- 
ports for the purpose of hearing appeals under the said rule, 
against the decision of the Export Inspection Agency, mention- 
ed in the corresponding entry in column (1) thereof; 

Provided that where a member of any of the said panel is 
personnally interseted in the subject matter of any appeal, he 
shall not take part in the proceedings relating to that appeal. 

TABLE 


Authority against whose Persons constituting the panel of 
decision appeal lies experts to which appeal lies, 


1 2 


1. Export Inspection 1. Shrl R.M. Mehra, M/s, Bombay 
Agency-Bombay Potteries Sc Tiles Ltd., Pipe Road, 

Kurla, P,B.No. 7166, Bombay-70 
Chairman 

2. Shri M.K. Ganpule, M/s. Parshu- 
ram Pottery Works. Co. Ltd., 
Wankner, Morvf, Gujarat. 

3. Shri K.M. Sharma, M/s. H & R 
Johnson (India) Pvt. Ltd., Nanb- 
hoy Mansion, Sir P. Mehta Road 
Bombay-1. 

4- Shri R.C. Kaji, M/s. Eastern Cera- 
mics Ltd., Bombay. 

5. Deputy Director, Ex-officio, Natio- 
nal Test House, Gautam Building, 
Zakaria BDR Road, Bombay-15, 

6. Deputy Director (Chem), Ex-officio 
Small Industries Service Institute, 
Saklnakc, Kurla Andheri Road, 
Bombay-70. 

7. The Joint Dilector, Ex-officio, 
Export Instpection Council of 
India, Regional office, Aman Cham- 
bers, 4th floor, 1 1 3, M. Karve Road 
Bombay-4. 

Convener, 

2, Export Inspection 1. Dr. S. Sen. Central Glass Sc Cera- 

Agency-Calcutta mic Reserch Institute, Jadavpur, 

Calcutta-32. 

Chairman. 

2. Shri Hoshiar Singh, M/s. Bengal 
Potteries Ltd., 45, Tangra Road, 
Calcutta-15. 

3. Shri A.D. Dua, The Government 
Insulator Factory, Ranchi, Bihar. 

4. Shri S.N. Seth, M/s. Jaya Shrcc 
Textile Sc Industries Ltd., Porce- 
lain Insulator Factory, P.O. Rishra, 
Dist. Hooghly, W. Bengal. 

5. Shri B.N. Banerjee, Bihar Eire 
Bricks & Potteries Ltd., 22, Shard 
Road, Calcutta-1. 

6. Assistant Director (Physical), Ex- 
officio, National Test House, Judges 
Court Road, Alipore, Calcutta-27. 

7. Deputy Director (Chemicals), 
Ex-officio, Export Inspection Council 
of India, 14/1B , Ezra Street, 7th 
floor, Calcutta-1. 

Convener. 

3. Export Inspection 1. Shri B. Ullal, M/s. E.I.D. Fairy 
Agency-Madras Sc Ltd., Ranipet, Madras. 

Cochin - Chairman. 

2. Shri J.K. Fakirsab, M/s. Mysore 
Porcelains Ltd,, Post Box No. 
Science Institute, Bangalore-12. 



Sec. 3(ii)J 


2165 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


3. Shri T.V. Funnoose, Thazhenshu 
House, Mundancavu, Chengannur, 
Kerala. 

4. Shri V. Srinivasan, Director, M/s. 
W,S. Insulators Ltd., Porur, Madras. 

5. The Branch Manager, Ex-officio, 
State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd. 1 * * 4 
23, Mount Rdad, Madras-6. 

6. Deputy Director (Export Promo- 
tion), Ex- officio, Office of the Jt. 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Madras. 

7. Deputy Director, Ex-officio, Export 
Inspection Agency-Madras, 123, 
Mount Road, Madras-6. 

Convener. 

4. Export Inspection L Shri H.L. Somani, M/s. Hindustan 
Agency-Delhi. Sanitary Ware (Pvt.) Ltd., Baha- 

durgarh, Rohtak, Haryana, 

Chairman. 

2. Shri B.N, Bhaskar, M/s. Ishwar 
Industries, Ishwamagar. 

3. Shri Sailednra Kumar, Jai Shiv 
Bhavan, Campoo Bajaiia, Lashkar, 
Gwalior (MP). 

4. Development Officer (Ceramics), 
Ex-officio Directorate General, 
Technical Development, New Delhi- 
11. 

5. Director, Ex-officio, Small In- 
dustries Service Institute, , New 
Delhi-20. 

6. Shri Rama Batran, Head , Electri- 
cal Deptt. Indian Institute of 
Technology, Haus Khas, New 
Delhi. 

7. Joint Director, Ex-officio, Export 
Inspection Agency-Delhi, 13/37, 
Western Extn. Area, Arya Samaj 
Road, Karolbagh, New Delhi-5. 

. Convener. 

2. The quorum of the panel shall be three, 

[No, 1(27)/71-EI&EP] 

fflo WTo X6&0“— fTFT 

Ppnr, l o 6 9 % fw 7 wpw ^ tiwir TTTd h wrr 

% rfo 

TToTTo 1522, TTo 26 Tfof, 1969 «FT TffiWT TT* 

# nf (2) if wfwrr «r ffcpfi qfr tt* 

( i ) ^ fPFrrft Tftrfa: if qftTn frqfa fafterr srfarw 

% fabrirep T % % rnffr q?r % 

srifapT r^rr fwW *7 ft ir foPFT TTrff 

m ^nrf -dVi if Trt ttet ftRfV irfPT ^ f^nr 
if tofair ft if fetns ft *n5t ^ w if wfcm 
if tht im i 


q fj_ h i FTj f^i H 4' frffiTTT firm TT Tpf 

% far* wfm it $ i Tfer #tt ft fsreptft Tqtr TTPfr ft 


1 2 


1. ftftQTT , 1. TWST/JMICW, 'VtH, 

i l PTrferr ttt fark 

WWtfd TfVrr, 68, HTOtT ftf, 

Y^’34 I TFFST 


2 

2. Tf <TRo rr^o 

A» tTt faftrSr, 

T7 16, TTPtT 

-i 

3. To *TRo TlfPT, 

A* ftraer for, f?fPT 4^'frprfFT 
To Tmw jtrfV Tftrr, 

2 3 4 

4. TRo TTfci (tfff, 

yTjr for qfo ffo, 

1 0, 

T^' 7 

5. TT-fr^W, T^T, 

r TTOT TWIT, 

7^-15 

6. ( fTTTTfrf ^TW^T) , 

TFTPT TTT frprfT % 

Pf^5W ^ [?PT, 

7. Ww, q^r, 

TTTT qff fTRftt 

TUlW, tm 

113, To RTflW 

2. fdtrfd ffiffefFT fell 1. q^r 

TTTTTT dTT fW>RT¥*n( f^prfd 

THTtTT-1 totw 

2. (ferftr Tfar^r) q^r, 

TP TT7T TTT PptLt 

TT TPlfdT, ^ftWTIT I 

3. Tdo tnro qv^pRTtrqK, 

4o #¥TT f^pfffippR( f 
14, w srr^K inr, TwtTT-i 

4. ¥To iTo mfo ?TTf, 

^tH?T VKflPH^ tffWT 

38, 

i e 

s. «fr tr^-o TTt^^fr, 

>To ^ y s wrrrf^pT 

WTO HfWT ftro, 

Jf^TO?TT WTOT, 1 8 , ftf, 
*TWfTT- 1 

6, (^ffiTPT), q^T, 

Tvptt ^rajfr, tk? t twtt, 

*t4d 0 ¥, IpjfPjTi TTTTTT-27 

7. q^r, 
tttt t) Ppt% frft^LT qfiq^, 

1 4/ 1 ^To f r^nr^^T, 

HTWrP-1 rPTtTT 



2166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


1 2 
3. farfa Wtonr i- st° 'ft' 0 'ft 0 

ttETHT OTT WT T^o «TTT%^ 

*rfst, Trarr^r-2 5 

2. «ff ^frPttRFT, 

to ftfo, 

^fPPJT j\f } TT o ff,^ W I <1 
OT^K-17 

3. «fr T^iro qTWttff, f^rte, 

to qt#r (*t°) 

pTo, TflfW-34 

4. *fr ^to ftpPT ttwt, 

PlWT 5BRTT, 

t° qqFl fST° 

WH-58 

5. (Profa ^ 
TOT ^TT Pnrfd 1JW PrtfOT 
VT TihPih, 


1 2 

6 twrr WfePFT* (Tofto^o), 

•Pfr, 

TT TT^Ri 
pTFHT ^offTo^o qr$T, 

^mr qf i i 

7. tffFT Pri^F, tft, 

Profa Prita q -ftefr, 
13/37, <rfW<fr fa^TR £$r, *fr 4 
Tty, 


2* for qft #r ijPft i 

[tf° l(27)/7l-fofTlt«^ <j y^^°] 

S,CL1696.— In pursuance of rule 7 of the Export of Vinyl 
Film and Sheetings (Inspection) Rules, 1969, the Central Go- 
vernment in supersession of the Notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Foreign Trade and Supply, No. 
S.O. 1522 dated the 26th April, 1969, hereby appoints the persons 
mentioned in column(2) of the Table given below as panel of 
experts for the purpose of hearing appeals under the said rule 4 
against the decision of the Export Inspection Agency, mentioned 
in the corresponding entry in column (1) thereof ; 


6. STPsfT ST^tPT, q^T, 

ffinr TiiHftvM *rroj Pro, 

123, Hl^* TtT, MB I '1-6 


Provided that where a member of any of the said panel is 
personally interested in the subject matter of any appeal, 1 e 
shall not take part in the proceedings relating to that appeal. 

TABLE 


7. Thppf ^ , 

mvx qft Prrfa ft -ftm qfr^, 

fnrcfcrc, wfijr fapFirr, 

ftr, 

yWhT'* 1 1 TPTfaPF 

4. pFtfa PrfftPT TrfvrTT^r 1. 

'3rft j r 4 q i rfwT'T, 

*ftwr, qf ft^ff-20 iftm 

2. «flr htta £to 

tw qjn: 

fT*pf, 

1 9, ajJh q 1 h cfl" T^Tf Pieri)- 7 

3. Mt ffl 1 * ^nff, 

*TTBT ^ To jjto Pro, 
mm 'Sydff. 4i(Kiqiq, ^ 
htot, qrffanrrc, ^rfrirmT i 

4. sfr mto tTTTo TfTFTT, ^T-f^TTT, 

qrcdfa (jfarrPrqft) 

•FFT3T 

5. ^ T^HTT fflo apJT, 
wiwr (Amco tr*y tffo), 

4o t^t>1h '^TTfeq^f pTo, 

54, rjfcm, q iO^nt t q 


Authority against Persons constituting the panel of 

whoso decision experts to which appeal lies 

appeal lies. 


1 2 


L Export Inspection 1. Chairman/Vice-Chairman, Ex-offlcio, 
Agency-Bombay. Plastics & Linoleums Export Pro- 

motion Council, 68, Tardco Road, 
Bombay-34. 


Chairman. 

2. Shri R.M. Patol, M/s. Bhor In- 
dustries Ltd., Sir Vithaldas Cham- 
bers, 16 Apollo Street Fort, 
Bom bay- 1, 

3. Shri A.R. Chouhan, M/s. National 
Leather Cloth Mfg. Co., Ram- 
krupa Building, 2nd floor, 25, 
Parekh Street, Bombay-4. 

4. Shri R.M. Jhaverl, M/s. Dharm- 
pur Leather Cloth Co. Ltd., 10, 
Chowpatty Sea Face, Bombay-7. 

5. Deputy Director, Ex-officio, Natio- 
nal Test House, Govt, of India, 
Bombay- 15. 

6. Joint Director (Export Promo- 
tion), Ex-offlcio, Office of the Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Bombay. 

7. Joint Director, Ex-offlcio Export 
Inspection Council of India, Re- 
gional office, A man Chambers- 
113, M, Karvc Road, Bombay-4. 

Convener. 



2167 


Sec. 3(ii)] 

( 1 ) 

2. Export Inspection I 
A jy-Cilcultta. 

2 

3 


3 Export Inspection 
Agency- Madras & 
Cochin. 


4. Export Inspection 
Agency-Del hi. 

31 GI/73— 6 


rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/J YAJS1HA 26, 1895 
(2) (1) (2) 


Chairman/ Vice-Chairman, Ex- 

Plaslics & Linoleums Export Pro- 
motion Council. 14/1 B, F?ra Street 
Calcutta- 1. 


2. Shri R.T. Thampy, Sri Rani Insti- 
tute for Industrial Rcscaith, 19, 
University Road, Delhi-7. 


Chairman. 


Deputy Director (Lxpotl Promo- 
tion), Ex-officio Office of (ho Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Calcutta 

Shi i H.M. Nandkeolyar, M/s. 
India Linoleums, 14, Radha Bazar 
Lane, Calcutta- 1 . 


Dr. A.N. Shah, National Organic 
Chemical Industries Lid., Hima- 
lays House, 38, Chowringhcc, 
Calcutta- 16. 


Shri S. Ganguly, General Manager 
(Plastics), M/s. Alkali & ChemL 
cal Corpn. of India ltd., Calcutta 
Bianch, 18, Strand Road, Calcutta-1 


Deputy Direct oi (Chemicals), Ex- 
officio National Test House, Govt, 
of India, Judges, Court Road, 
Alipore, Calcutta -2 7. 

Deputy Director (Chemicals), Fx- 
offlcio Export Inspection Council 
of India, 14/1 B, Ezra Street, 7th 
door, Calcutta- 1 . 


3. Shri P.P. Mukherjcc, M/s. Bata 
Shoe Co. Pvt Ltd., Branch Fac- 
tory, Faridabad New Industrial 
Town, Faridabad, Haiyana. 

4. Dr. M.S. Muthona, Deputy Direc- 
tor, Indian Institute of lehno- 
logy, Kanpur. 


5. Shri Ramesh C. Barer. Gcrcral 
Manager (R&D), M/s. Nuchem 
Plastics Ltd,, 54, Industrial Aren. 
Faridabad. 


6. Development Office i (FEE), Ex- 
officio Office of the Directorate 
General, Technical Development, 
EPL Cell, LJdyog Bhavnn, New 
Delhi-11. 


7. Joint Director, Ex-officio Export 
Inspection Agency-Dclhi, 13/37, 
Western Extn. Area, Ar>a Samaj 
Road, New Del hi -5. 


Convener. 


2. The quorum of the panel shall be three, 


Convener. 

! Proof. P.B, Janardhan, University 
of Madras, A.C, College Campus, 
Guindy, Madras-25. 


No, 1(27)/71-E1&EP. 




Chairman. 

2. Shri K. Siinivasan, M/s. Varma 
Industrials Ltd., Domlur Road 
P.0, Hindustan Aircraft, Banga 
lore- 17. 

3. Shri M. Parthasarathy, Directoi. 
M/s. Polyene Film Industries (P) 
Ltd., Madras-34. 

4. Shri T. Vijaya Raghavan, Mai ket- 
ing Manager, M/s. Wavin India 
Ltd,, Ambattur Industrial Estate, 
Madras-58. 

5. Deputy Director (Export Promo- 
tion), Fx-officio Office of the Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Madras. 

6. Branch Manager, Ex-officio State 
Trading Corpn. of India Ltd,, 
123, Mount Road, Madras-6. 

7. Joint Director, Ex-officio, Export 
Inspection Council of India, Regio- 
nal office, Manohar Building, 
Mahatma Gandhi Road, Erna- 
kulam, Cochin-1 1. 


Convener. 

1. Director , Fx-officio Small Indus- 
tries Service Institute, Okhla. New 
Defhi-20, 


m. 3 tt, 1697 — *rrrr ^ nw 2 3 (2) 

28 1972 # BTOT ^ \r\ ^ 

wr ^ arr^V sir. 3330 28 

anrp*?, 1972 fw ^fT^hrr, 1— 

tiTFff TrWt tt 

1970” 3? WET T? (fcl7 ihTT) 

1970” Tif l 

Rf. 6(i9)/7i^, wz r 4] 

CORRIGENDUM 

S.o. 1697, — In the ordei of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Foreign Trade No. S.O. 3339 dated the 28th 
October, 1972 published in Pail II— Section 3— Sub-Section 
(li) of the Gazette of India dated the 28th October 1972, the 
following amendment shall be made, namely : — 

For “the Export of Dried Fish and Fish Products (Ins- 
pection) Rules, 1970” read “Dried Fish (Inspection) 
Rules, 1970”. 

[No. 6(19)/71-EI&EP] 


Chairman. 


K. L, MA'IHUK, Under Secy. 



[Part II— 


2168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 

(tfaftfW Pnrw, Fnrnr urm 

(mrnta tm *tor) 

30 *r$, 1973 

vto WTO 1698.--*TJPT-WT, 77 *T»ftfiPT 'TnTl^ 7T7T RFH (iWPT'T f^r) flrft*PT 1955 ^ 3 % 7#W<t ( 2 ) tftT 

(3) % *T^iTT7 ^tTOfpT TTTTT #Fir TTCT flfaflfacT f*PTTT 'STTrTT | fV *R^Tl S[ fan ’W’Afl >im 77 WVrf f^TT ^TUT ^ 71J f-mTf<7 fTTT 

wrt : 


fVjfftn r *TRdW TTRT f mw tfk ^ RTTdVT TTRTJTTT Tlf JTJ tTRcffT JTTTO ^fftpRT 

F’wr tffbt^ *M*r 


1 TS : 560-1 969 NS : 

5 60-1961 ?ppM *ft fftftrfe 

w *ttto ft rfVr 

m fftfaife 

( , j7frfW7) 

<tfr tftwTrr 'rtVsr’i 'raf^rt fr *Tf | 



(R^T To 7. oo) 

rpf IS : 560-1 969 % TTP^T TITT-SITR T^Tl 1 

fTRlS : 560-1961 30 tf^T, 1974 



T*r vii cfto *tfpt ift srf^nrf mvfim tttw mm, w vta, 9-wi^wt^ tot *rnt, nf fapeft - 1 tfk mm yp rfqqf sripm- 


arpr, wf, I^Ttr, ^ppjt, tftr wm ft *ift m mrft $ i 


[fto Tfto RRo fVo/l3:2] 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 
New Delhi, the 30 May, 1973 

S. O. 1698.— In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) 
Regulations, 1955, as amended from time to time, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standard, particulars of 
which is mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, has been establised. 

SCHEDULE 


SI, No, and Title of the Indian Standard No. and Title of the Indian Standard if any, Brief Particulars 

No. Established superseded by the new Indian Standard 


1. 1S;560-1969 Specification for BHC, tech- *IS:560-1961 Specification for BHCtech- This standard prescribes the requirements 

nical and refined (.second revision) nical (revised) and the methods of test for BHC, techni- 

cal and refined (Price Rs. 7,00) 

*For purposes of ISI Certification Marks 
Scheme; IS:560-1969 shall run con- 
currently with IS :560- 1 969 up to 30 April 
1974 


Copies of this Indian Standard are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution, Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar 
Marg, New Delhi-J and also its Branch Offices at Ahmcdabad, Bangalore, Bombay, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Kanpur and Madras. 


r No. CMD/13:2j 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2169 


tto wio i 6 # 9 . — fnn fnrq- tc wwtftrcr »rrcft!T ’tht (shtcft fafwr 1955 % frPm 4 % *rafa-irm 

iw ara f*prrr TO $ f¥ 3 ^ ( 1 ) % *ffa<FTT % STtffa F!jt ^ FFFFf 

% tfvftenr 3it^ inf - 


^nffttor *T| y ,cfi 4 TTFTTt ftw TR'R 'tfKrftq - ff^ittTT ^ ^TWT t\ vf) tTT ’fl ^Tf^cT fqq *, u i ^TPJ sftrf 

wwr T^fw m t^rn: 3 ft sfa farfa fifftr 

^rn^fr 
*TWT tf\x fcrpF 

(0 ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) Ts) 7o) 

1 . IS : 278-1969 639 tfo 2 W TOT W 1 ** 4 . 2. lift? I 1 iff, 1972 

frTTT ^cTT ^ 2 l 'ERfl', 19 70 n$ 1972 

(l, 3?) 

2 IS . 489-1961 *Hr * W T* 0 ^ 0 635 tfo 2 STT % l^H7f,I972 

(j^ftfanO 3 *tr, 1962 1972 ir*j*rf tfr wwm % wr fq - ^ r |$ 

■fr ¥t Pnrffcr trV ^rf^rfif n ^ 
tftftsra ^rrft wx ftfraR Mt $ 1 
ftnj ^ ^fropr *rw 1 tfft: 2 

wl ft 5# f^TT TOT % cft*ft % f^ *FR 

^rrftroT tfk $ ftrtifr 11 ! tfh 
srftt * q^r * rr *rfw ^ frrr 

^*r 1 

3 IS : 542-1968 V fr?T ^o?fto 4599 fori* *To 1 *T"T 2 . 1 . 2 % **TFT IX TOT ^ft? 1972 

^ faftfl/s?: (^ 3 ^) 28feTOT, 1968 iJ'Ttt 1972 sftfarrT l 

4 IS : 543- 1968 % ?R OTTolfto 1455 fTOPF TTo l 2.1.3 % WPT TT ^TTT ^ aft? 1 1 972 

itft fafW ($ 5^) 19^^,1969 1972 I 

5. IS : 54 4-19 68 ^ rr^oifto 368 i ( l) 2.1.2 ^ $*TFT ^TqT i ?\m$ t 1972 

tift ftrfwfe (^ yr) 25 ^0 i 960 1972 1 

( 2 ) FTT/jft l «FT ^TT f^qT ’FTT | I l , 19 7 2 

6 IS . 457-1968 *faPT ^ ^ lJTTo ?fto 4599 ft^TPP ^fo 1 ( 1 ) 2 . 1 . 2 % TT ^TTf W^IT sift? l^Tlf, 1972 

(^. ^T). 28 1968 1972 I 

(2) 4. 5 «ft? tor wr $ i 

(3) tt’TT qTT-f^^r % ?p?T Tt aft 

*rf I 1 

7. IS : 628-1963^TT^R%^^T ^ifto 176()fiRtT ^ 3 ^4 2 % ^ ?PTT I 1 ^ 1972 

^ (^rfVfsR) 29^:5, 1963 *ri 1972 

8 IS ; 887-1 968 TWT iT*To|fto 4599 f^TtT 1 (*J«5 4, ?TmI 1, FT*¥T 4, ’PTT ^TWr ( 6 ) 1 spT#, 1972 

\ (fafafe (^0 3/T) 2 8 1968 1 972 % 3"«[^)-(), 5 % TT 1 , 0 fTT 

aftrw 

9 IS. 1365-1968 ^H-TKVtf- ^ ^0 3608 1 T<JT 5 . 1 , 1 TT ^TTJT^^ft? 1 ^ iy 72 

?arftR ftrr tt% ^rt f^rhr 1 2 1 9 6 8 ^5 1972 

ftn: (*wr 

16^20 tnrr) ^ ftfyrfe 

10 . IS : 1366- 1968 STRAIT HftT <J?T° tffo 3608 f^TTTTr 1 ( 1 ) WK 5 . 1 . 1 % *«TFT qT WT V TS 1^,1972 

^JTT ftlT *T[%9R ( ,l TR 1 6 »T 12^^,1968 ^fl 972 ^fftVr | 

2ofWt?w) 3 *) (2) ^n^fr i tfrr 2frwfprw| i 



2170 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1 973/J YAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) («) 


11 IS : 1459-1968 # ^PT Tpf sf \ 2 7 6 6 fipTW 

^ fqfarfw (qq. jq) 10 5TTOT 1068 

12 IS 1 482 - 1 970 jrcrfffiTTmWt qq *fM i o 7 forto 
if gqq qrq qtrf qqrfT qf 20 nrf 1971 
fqfqfe (q$. yr) 

13 IS : 2026 -19 6 2 TTTT £Tq- qq qf 2 698 few 

q»rtTt qfMqfiife i (q^sx 1962 


14 IS 210 1 (qFT 2 ) -1966 qq?TT 2654 

qrff %■ qqqq STTIT ( HFT $p; 5 *RTq 1 90 7 

tflTT ?T gfq ^1% TTT 
^ ) qnr 2 srn; qt* qfif f qq 
faftrfe (q?FTT qq) 


15 IS * 23 03-1 90 J^TRTOT^Pttt TTXf *ft 1760 1 WT 

qrr qgfq 29 qq 19 6 3 


16 IS : 3099-1 965 ^ ^ «ft 2673 ftqtq 

pqTT TOTv? qV ^qff Prfw 2 S qqw 19G5 

aft farfirte: 

17 IS 341 3“ 1 966 wm ^ WT 520 ftqfa> 

f^rj qr>xF w\ fqftrfe i o qqqff 1 90 s 


JF IS 397 5-196 7 qf %qq rr?T tff 3 3 3 6 faqj'f 
% fsp- q^ ^FTRT % qTX, qfnqt 2 3 fqTTRT 1967 
qV £q fqforfe 


q° 1 qT^ft 1 TT ^pn^FT PRTT W t 1 1972 

^RTf 107 2 

*fo i ( l) 4 , gw 2 i ffan 2 qqm i qqq 1972 

STTH 1972 ^rjTTcT I 2 5 *FT IfST SlftR 

( 2) qrtrrq 1 ^ qf mqrfr nfr ^fir^rrr 

qo 6 (1 ) gw 1 7.1 0 5 , 1 7 1 3 7 3 wVr tt_ j 1 qf 1 0 72 

qf 1972 1 (qt) qrr qurtqq forr qm t 1 

(2) qryfa 22 % nffr^rr % q-r rtf 
vftqqr jftr 1 

(3) 42 (<ps 43 frftrc) qrfffa 22 
(«ft) tflf* £ *ft% ¥V qrmft-) fqrq- 
fafgq qrmfr qrt ?Rr ftfqq ■ — 

‘Connection for trans- 
former — during test’ 

( 4 ) 17 12 4.5 % ^Tf 7 rtt 
qnqiq tftfanr | 

( 5 ) wr gw 4 2 1 RfT qtfqTT 1 

( 6 ) gw 17,13 7 1 % *RT X q*F qqT 

qTO Wt* Htf^TT 1 

qo 02 (1) qg ^ qr <pss 1 *frr 2 ^ 1 ^ 1972 

^q 1972 qqrq q^ qqT TTfrfqr oftr dffqq; 1 

(2) m? 2 i, 1,3 ('jq q:qrfw 

4.4) srVr 5.2% q T qrr 'qfff 
qfffVrr | 

( 3 ) (q^ 4 , g - ^ 3 . 1 qfaq 2 ^ ) fqRfqf^Fr 
vrt ‘and fibre hard board’ w>\ r ^ 1 
'board 1 sfhr 'face panels’ 

rts" ^TrfRTT 1 

( 4 ) TTT g" WT 4 3 gw 4 2 3 % UTS qt¥ 

qVfqq qVr gw 4 3 qft jqwrqr 4 . 4 
qrq 1 

q 0 i q qrqqT ^ fqtrfwr qarPtjTT nr fqqrqtq 1 1972 

'5[q 1972 qfqfq ?r q^ qpftqq qfsqmt qfr- 

yq qiqfq q't bqrq q qg^rr rtr Tr 

fTtf'qq fqqT % \ f q qrspq q qpT^ ^ ^V 

qf ^qnr 9 TTTT qffOT ift TW 

«u<+‘rir f^rq qq qtwr | f^ft 
qr tr % fqq j | 

q° 2 gw 3, 7 % rqrq qr qqr g^s rr fNr 1 qf 1972 

qf 1972 qqq ^ 1 

q° 1 ( ] ) qnqft i qq wtsrq fw qqr $ 1 1 qf 1 972 

qf 1972 (2) gw 1 1 % PTR q^r qqr gw 

gtfqq 1 

(3) gug 4 . 2 (qqr) qiqqqrqqiqg (^ft) 
rr dt^rq 1 

qo 3 ( 1 ) gw 4 . 1 . 6 . 3 ?tVt mvm 2 ^ fqrq 1 qf 1972 

qf 1 9 7 2 qr qq gw q>r qp^ft rit gtf^xr j 

(2) gw o 1, 9. 2 1 ifk 9. 2, 1 (ft) 
qq qgrarr %qr qqr | 1 



Sec, 3 (ii) J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2171 


19. IS . 4333(HTH 1 ) - 1 967 

irmn f^nr^ ft 'rsfant 

HTH 1 f? 'TR'FOTH 

20 IS ' 4576-1968 fffan tft- 

firnn Am faforfe 

2 1 IS . 5225- 1969 HT 7 ft 

■gfaWr ft f^ftrfcg: 

2 2. IS: 5604-1 970i[fiT^Wpm 

tP^h ?fh m\m tTth hE 


HH 17 19 

HI 1 

(1) 

Ijv* 2 2 5 PTTH HT HHT SRY ft* 

1 ^HTf 19 7 2 

18 H^ 1968 

hht$ 197 2 


TtfHTT 1 




(2) 

n 3 ^iT HHttfH f%HT HHI & 1 


TH WT 27 6 6 ftHTT 

Ho I 

HH-oft t f 1 f *«1H HT Hf 

I HHlf 19 7 2 

1 0 mm 1968 

^*rr i 1972 


Hptft ftv ^frPsrq: i 


rr*T *fr S9 fcHRT 

Ho 2 

?3r<nr 4 1 1 f Ht* H# sfts it 

1 H# 1 972 

1 0 1970 

1972 


lit i 


rrn m 3544 fam 7 

Ho 2 

(0 

i 3 1, 4. 8 (^H THTfiFT 1 7) 

1 Hf 1972 

2 5 PHWR 19 7 1 

Hf 1972 


h) 1 HHtHH frHT HHT % 1 



( 2 ) f®T4 

( 3 ) 4 . 5 *FT Tifspr sfft 4 6, 

4 7 4 . 8 vr ^H^nkr 1 . 5 ; 4 6 

?fl{ 4 7 T) pal'll 


^h htthIh hth*f ft hFhht, HRtftn hth«f h*«tt, 9 apur hth, h$ fwft-i tfK *H*t hrtt prefer*! ( 1 ) j5 34-ht*tt h?hh mi 

^H,^«rt-7(2) 5 trrft^, TOTWT-13 ( 3 ) 5 MTTH ^ Tt7, H£TH- 3 ( 4 ) 117/412 ^ HHT ( 5 ) 5-9-101/2 

ERrirtfiff %jt, ?te*nrr*-i( 6 ) hfhht ^hTjth* iN HFt, (7) irswn* hPtc faltTH rpy hhhr 

2 h srr^ on w?ft | 1 


[f° fto TJHo ^>0/13.5] 


S. O. 1699, — In pursuance of regulation 4 of tho Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, J 955, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that amendment (s) to the Indian Standard (s) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued 
under the powers conferred by the sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations. 

schedule 


SI. No. and title of the Indian No, and Date of Gazette No. and Date of the Brief particulars of the Amend- Date from 


No. 

Standard amended 

Notification in which 
tho establishment of 
the Indian Standard 
was notified 

Amendment 

ment 


which the 

Amendment 
shall have 

effect 

U) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 


(6) 


1. IS:278-1969 Specification lor S.O. 639 dated 21 Feb No, 2 May 1972 

galvanized steel barbed wire 1 970 

for fencing 
(Second revision) 

2. 1S;489-1961 Specification for S.O. 635 dated 3 Mar No.2JuI 1972 

glass ampoules 1962 

(revised) 


3. IS ;542-l 968 Specification for S.O, 4599 dated 28 Dec No.l Jul 1972 

coconut oil 1968 

(second revision) 

4. IS :543- 1 96S Specification for S.O. 1455 dated 10 Apr No.l July 1972 

cotton seed oil 1969 

(second revision) 

5 . IS:544-1968 Specification for S.O, 368 dated 25 Jan No. i Jul 1972 

groundnut oil 1969 

(second revision) 

6. IS : 547-1 968 Specification for S.O. 4599 dated 28 Dec No.l Jul 1972 

sesame oil 1968 

(second revision) 


A new clause 4.2.1, has been 1 May 1972 
added. 


With a view to incorporating the 1 Jul J 972 
requirements of diluent am- 
poules needed for water for 
water for freeze dried vaccines, 
the Glassware Sectional 
Committee, responsible for 
tho preparation of thisstan- 
dand decided to issue this 
amendment. It is also 
provided that Amend- 
ments No.l and 2 shall stand 
automatically withdrawn as 
soon ^ as the, ‘Specification 
foi Glass Tubes and Am- 
poules foi Freeze Dried 
Vaccines, now under prepara- 
tion, is printed. 

Clause 2.1.2. has teen snbsutii- 1 Jul 1972 
tod by a new one 

Clause 2,1.3. has teen substilu- .1 Jul 1972 
ted by a new one 

(i) Claure 2.1.2 has bttn I Jul 1972 
substituted by a new one. 

(ii) Table 1 has been 
amended 

(j) Clause 2.1.2 1 as been J Jul 1972 
substituted by a new one 

(ii) New Clause 4.5 has 
been added 

(in) A foot-note has been 
added at the end of page 
6 



2172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[Part II — 


7. TS:628-1963 Specification for S.O. 1760 dated 29 Jun No.3 May 1972 

bicycle pedal assembly 1963 
(revised) 

8. IS:887-1968 Specification for S.O, 4599 dated 28 Dec No.l July 1972 

animal tallow 1968 

(first revision) 


Clause 4,2 has been substituted 1 May 1972 
by a new one 


[Page 4, Table 1, Col 4, against 1 Jul 1972 
SI No. (vi)] Substitute T.0’ 
for ‘0.5’ 


9. IS :1365-1968 Specification for S.O. 3608 dated 12 Oct No.l Jun 1972 
slotted countersunk head 1 968 
and slotted raised counter- 
sunk head screws (diame- 
ter range 1.6 to 20 mm) 

(second revision) 


Clauses 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 have 1 June 1972 
been substituted by new ones. 


10. IS : 1366-1968 Specification S.O. 3608 dated 12 Oct No.l May 1972 
for slotted cheese head 1968 
screws (diametor range 1.6 
to 20 mm) (first revision) 


(i) Clause 5.1.1. has been 1 May 1972 
substituted by a new one 

(ii) Tables 1 and 2 have 
been amended 


11. IS : 1459-1968 Specification S.O. 2766 dated 10 Aug No.l Jul 1972 

for kerosines 1968 

(first revision) 


Table 1 hai been amended 1 Jul 1972, 


12.15:1482-1970 Specification S.O. 1107 dated 20 Mar No.l Apr 1972 

for metric scales for use with 1971 

drafting machines 
(first revision) 

13. IS: 2026- 1962 Specification S.O, 2698 dated 1 Sep No.6 May 1972 

for power transformers 1962 


(1) (Page 4, clause 2*1, line 1 Apr 1972 
2) - Delete the scale ratio 
T :25\ 

(ii) New matter has been 
under Fig, l 


(i) Clauses 17.10.5, 17,13. 
7.3 and A - 1.1 . (c) have 
been amended 

(ii) Caption of Fig. 22 has 
been substituted a by 


1 May 1972 


(iii) [Page 42 (page 43 of the 
Reprints) Fig. 22 (b), 
matter below Ihe cap- 
tion] Delete tho follow- 
ing matter : 

'Connection for Irans 

formers during 

test,’ 

(iv) A new paragraph has 
been added under Clause 
17.12.4.5. 

(v) A new clause 4,2.1 has 
been added. 

(vi) A new sentance has been 
added at the end of 
clause 17.13.7.1. 


14. IS :2191 (Part 1I)-1%6 Sped- S.O, 2654 dated 5 Aug No,2 June 1972 
fication for wooden flush 1967 
door shutters (cellular 
and hollow core type) 

Part 11 particle board face 
panels 

(first revision) 

(iii) (Page 4, clause 3.1, line 
2)-Add words ‘and fibre 
hardboard 1 between the 
words ‘board* and face 
panels’ 

(iv) New clause 4.3 has 
been added after 4.2.3 
and clause 4.3 re-num- 
bered as 4.4 


(i) Title on first cover page, 1 June 1972 
pages 1 and 2 has been 

sub tit uted by a new one 

(ii) Clauses 2.1 , 4.3 (re-num- 
bered clause 4.4) and 
5.2 have been substitu- 
ted by new ones 




Sec. 3(ii)J 


2173 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 

1 2 3 4 5 6 


15. IS:2303-1963 Method of 
grading glass for alkalinity 


S.O. 1760 dated 29 June 
1963 


No. 1 June 1972 


The Glassware Sectional Com- 
mittee, responsible for the 
preparation of the standard, 
decided to issue this amend- 
ment in view of the necessity 
felt for a quick, non-destruc- 
tive method of test which, 
though not so accurate as the 
powder method presently given 
in the standard gives a quali- 
tative indication of the alkali- 
nity of glass which is suffi- 
cient for certain glassware. 


16, 15:3099-1965 Specification 5,0. 2673 dated 28 Aug No. 2 May 1972 Clause 3.7 has been substituted 1 May 1972 
for slides and cover slips for 1 965 by a now one 

microscopes 


17. IS :341 3-1966 Specification S.O. 520 dated 10 Feb No.l May 1972 
for base paper for carbon 1968 
paper 


(i) Table 1 has been amen- 1 May 1972 
ded 

(il) Clause 4.1 has been subs- 
tituted by a now one 
(iii) New item (g) has been 
added after clause 
4.2 (f) 


18. 13:3975-1957 Specification for S.O. 3336 dated 23 Sep No.3 May 1972 
mild steel wires* strips and 1967 
tapes for armouring cables 


(i) Clauses 4.1, 6.3 and 1 May 1972 
table 2 have been 
substituted by new ones 


(ii) Clauses 6.1, 9.2,1 and 
9.2.1 (b) have been amen- 
ded 


19. IS :4333 (Parti)- 1967 Me- S.O, 1719 dated 18 May No.l July 1972 
thods of analysis for food- 1968 
grains part I refractions 


20. IS:4576-1968 Specification S.O. 2766 dated 10 Aug No.l Jul 1972 
for liquefied pcrtroleum 1968 
gases 


21. IS: 5225-1969 Specification S.O. 89 dated 10 Jan No.2 May 1972 
for raingauge, non-rocord- 1970 
ing 


22, IS : 5604- 1970 Specification S.O, 3544 dated 25 Sep No.2 May 1972 
for universal gearless hand 1971 
operated pulling and lifting 
machines 


(i) Clause 2.2.5 has been 1 Jul 3972 
substituted by a new one 


(ii) Clause 5,3 has been 
amended 


Note 1 under Table 1 has been 1 Jul 1972 
substituted by a new ono 


A note has been added under 1 May 1972 
clause 4,1.1 


(i) Clauses 3.1, 4.8 (re- 1 May 1972 
numbered 4.7) and C-4 

have been amended 

(ii) Clause 4.1 has been 
substituted by a new one 

(iii) Clause 4,5 has been 
deleted and clauses 4.6, 

4.7 and 4,8 re-numbered 
as 4.5, 4.6 and 4.7 res- 
pectively. 


Copies of these amendments are available with the Indian Standards Institution, 'Manak Bhavan\ 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, 
New Dclhi-1 and also its branch offices at (i) ‘Sadhna 1 Tulsivihar, Khanpur, Ahnicdabad-1 (if) F Block, Unity, Bldg,, Narasimharaja 
Square, Bangalore-2 (ill) 5 Chowringhce Approch, Calcutta-13 (Iv) 54 General Patters Road, Madras-2 (v) 117/418 B, Sarvodaya Nagar, 
Kanpur (vl) 5-9-201/2 Chirag Ali Lane, Hyderabad-1, and (vii) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patol Road, Bombay-7. 


[No. CMD/13:5] 



2174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[Part ID 


1700 — wr wt rt ffufrfEnr wrefftr (urtir Pr^) mss ^ ttHPwr (i) % w^rn 

•RrnftT RTTF ff^lT jm pTTT WPTT | fo 413 itMw Wf«T 'TTJ^’Tf *PT ^ 1072 T f*Tr W | -■ 


* 1 ^ 


’FT iPTR FTFRir RFR sf|T faf*T DpTT tft flTpT 4 


TT ^i^T’R'UTP' TT 01 m iftr TTT 


(0 


( 2 ) 


1 rfto ijTT o /trpf - 3 202 
1-1 ]“ 1 972 

2 *fto rr^o/TT^fo - 3 20.1 

1 - 1 1-1072 


3 ^Fto nrro/p^To- J 204 
1-11-1972 

4. pTf o /f^f o- 3 2 0 5 
1-11-1972 

5. ?=fTo tttTo/tttt-:3206 
1-11-1 972 


9 P TR 


: 3 ) 


0 


(9 


(9 


1- 11—1972 31—10—1973 dr 'iiD'HV, 2 3 3 j df K P'f) t T*l <\ rf, 'jf^pP^T PPft % fpd 300 fiTjfto 

FTTTr, prprfapT 1 29/ 1 o ^Ph- pp PT?P 

f*m rrwr IS 780 - 1 969 

1-11-19 72 31 - 10-1973 fa Pro, #o i, dVo «fto *fto ^tr^TT sftr dfo 

’ffap <TP, fTTf, (%TJT #0 n^tjfirPm 

TI 1100 

PP tfzz ^ — 

IS 4288-1967 


1-1 1-1972 


1—1 1—1972 31-10-1973 


31 - 10-1973 W nr ^?T *fo, 6 -dP^T (PIPP fafp)- 

PTH - iu, ^f- 1 J IS '226- I 969 

” ” PWTT TPTH (praT^T ftw)- 

TS : 1977-1969 


1—1 I- 197 2 31-10-1973 trpirw ‘v*VW’ ^ffTFR, pP^ 5TPTT % ^PT 

tvs, prirpte ( wptt ) — — — 

mpfim ■ WTj 5 f rr^^f, 3 TTo fa ’TRo <fto 2 T 7 T 

v liJrayvHK ffa PHTPH-l (^pHTP) Trq-o 


fi qfa TTJTo/nrrT -3 20 7 
i-1 1-1972 


7 Tfto nrf t? /n 7 T 0-3 20 8 

3—11—197 2 

8 pfto TttTo/tt ^-3209 
3-1 1—19 7 2 

9 , TT^o/irrro -32 1 0 

3 “ 11-197 2 

10 iHTo/tPTe -321 1 

3-11-1972 


3.67 (3 1300 142 

ET TTo ) 

IS: 1 60 1—1 960 

1— II— 1972 3 1— 10-1973 fpfat -Ml£ 92^ffo, (l) EPT’ft Pfa fa»1T iffPT PTfa 

T$z, P^'lwr 250/440 PfaT PTPT ^T^f 

pfpf - 6 7 TFTP ffrt 

( 2 ) W$tt Pfa 650/ 

1100 dp Tir^iTfir fifq- q- 

TT% TRTP— 

IS 69 l («TPT 1 
tflT 2) — 1 964 

16—1 1—197 2 1 5—11—1973 WHT^l TVS, J-TT Pto ft* ’TPTfpft^T IP- 

dP^Vr-1 IS 663-1956 


1(>-J 1-1972 15-1 1-1973 


irf^pT TRJpftq- 
TS‘ 1310-1 968 


16-1 1-1 972 1 3-11-1973 f?T«, c; TO ^ftf^TTPr TPRT^ftq' ^Sf TP- 

94 V*%P?T *F*TZT- IS- 528 1-1969 

TTTPT -58 

1-11-1972 3 1-10-1973 iJrf^J'45T PK f ntffTP ) (p^TR^T fprO'T^MrTT pq^y PTPt % 

WfPP) ^o- 5 , TT^jfrypy^ 

PtTFPft ( vJoITo ) " qV TfOTrT ^ *Ptt Pldf ^TPP- 

IS: 3 9 8—1961 



Sec. 3(ii)J 

(0 (2) 

11* rrrfo/ir^o-321 2 
3-1 1-1972 


1 % tfN TTTT c / iT^f 0-321 3 
3“ 1 1-1972 


13. tfN tTTTo/rrsro-3214 
3-1 1—1972 
1 4 , tfN Tmo/^-321 5 
3-11-1972 
1 5- TTTTo/rT?ro-3216 
1 0— I 1-197 2 

16. tft* 1^0/^-3217 
13-11-1972 

1 7- *fro rr^/lT?To-3 2 1 8 
13-1 1-1972 

1 r. Tfto t^tto/tt^o-32 1 9 

1 3- 1 1-1972 

19. T^o/^3220 

14- 1 1-1972 


20. tfV* TFT o/ltfT-3221 
28—1 1—1 972 


21. *fto TFTc/t^To-3222 
2 8—1 1—197 2 

^2. T?t 0 TFT°/ i: v7"322 3 
28-11-1972 


23, tfto tft 0/^0-3224 
28—11—1972 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2175 


(3) 


(9 


(S) 


(6) 


16-1 1-1972 15-1 1-1973 fatfH VTHT fao, FT- 

F^fTrT m> fwr IS: 3 s n- 1 9 e b 

Tffl^rjT, Hoi TTTO (VFff^R 
9 80 wf?r«r fe, 

m, 5pn-3o f^mr ^rr 

(W 7 **?) 

1C- 1 1-1972 15-1 1-1973 f<T°, f^TH- 

?T^rtT f^TT IS: 4 100- 1967 

TF^T (wtIto 

9 8 0 TTllf^rH *tZ, ^l'H'1 v ?? 3 T 

fiffrnr *mttrs, yn -30 iwr 

^rr(HfRT^j) 


16-11-1972 15-11-1973 


16-11-1972 15-11-1973 


IS: 4449—1 967 


” ” lift*— 

IS: 4450—1 967 

1 6-1 1-1972 15-1 1-1973 FTK l/ 5 TJo, ^ rfFTT 

^wfV H^rr ftr, hrwmo tort tot 

IS: 1 989- 1 967 

1 6-1 1-1 972 1 5-1 1-1973 ^mt^TH (^fiPTT), 262, TOST Efft FTO 1 2, 

Ibr 3 , *fta*rr wt R ^to ot- 

% tflcn: t£ faHt-20 IS:2B5-1964 

16-1 1-1 972 1 5—1 1—1973 HflFK (tfiw), 262, ffpTT 

TO, 3, ftfe IS: 4 199- 196 7 

% tffar, nf f^rot- 2 o 

10-1 1-1972 15-11-1973 tfN STFTTH 1 (fa 2 % 

^HTj TTFRT % TRTTPT— 

IS:5 155-1989 

16—1 1—1972 1 5-1 1-1973 tfTO *RfrH TO fao, 27 WT tfto sftr TjJfTTOf ^ faff 

^yf^TTT fmr ^ HOT 12*5 ?flTT 

3?TTT 4^ H^ffaJT jfw 

15:774—1971 

1-1 2-1972 30-1 1-1973 T^fa &p STTfi TO fao, FTTO HTpft $ fif? %TO $o HRo 

2 7/34 tF^Vt 1'5^o 1 q *f) r < T^)f qTnid 

HTftprt:— 

IS* 3074— 1 965 

1—12—1972 30—11—1973 A J lH7 faFT TO fao, TTTOTH ^ 1 ) q^TTH 

fm\ 24 — qTTFTT ( * 61 'i ( 2 ) ^fft— 

16 wm I) ■ IS: 1943-1 964 

1-12-1972 30-11-1973 frr^TO ftlfoS*, fW, ^to ^^T TTTO- 

TT^ Tmr Wr, (™f<?rq-: IS:561-1962 

TTH %5, HMI^-10 

1 


1-12-1972 30-11-1973 


tt^o ^fj-o PtHhVN TO- 

1T- 

IS: 562—1 961 


31 GI/73 — 7 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYATSTHA 26, 1895 


[Part II— 


24. tfto nrro/tr^o-;j225 
28—1 1—1972 

2 5- Uto tnro/t^ro-322(i 
28—1 1—1972 


26. tfto ^o/ttft-3227 

28-11-1972 


1-12-1972 30—1 1—1073 ” " t[o tN £f© TRIT— 

IS. 564-1961 

1-12-1972 30-1 1-1 973 ” ” ^ fa 

mto Trq-o’565-1 9(3 1 

1-1 2-1972 30-1 1-1973 ftrft T#JR *FT Wlk ^ ^4- 

ftrrr fat : tu*m IS:i3io-i958 

trr *FPJT- 10 


27. tft® tttto/it?t-3228 
28-1 1-1972 


28. tfto inTo/[^r-3229 
28-1 1-1972 


1-12-1 972 30-11-1973 ft® rr^o Rifo *7PFft, *t TtT, tft® Tt*o qjf* TR^T— 

(TPrf^PT: 95-%^TPTWT IS. 561-1962 
if | ) 


1-12-1972 30-11-1973 


to tfo £to ^*FT Tf3T^- 
IS: 5 64—1 96 1 


29. Hto iTTTo/r^o-3230 1-12-1972 30-1 1-1973 


28-11-1972 


^TffiTftFTFT TPFFffa fa sTT^ 
IS’ 256 7—1963 


30. tft® CRTo/i^r-32 3 1 
28-11-1972 


31. tft® ^To/t^c-3232 
28-1 1-1972 


1-12-1972 30—1 1—1973 feo, f?Tm fiR tfH ^ ^ 

^EpTTR^ <- 8 *f*i 

(^nrfGPT : ^tftFTFT^ ^fnrR^T Pf® sft© *fto tn^o 

H) " 

3 . 7(5 TTo) 1500 l^To 

*ffo *fto TTo 

IS: 1601—1960 

1-12-1972 30-1 1-1 973 =faFR ^pFT TR#T, 83/2, T^JjfaPFFT % afcTT fa- 

oFftt, tfWfc -22 tt^o fao tfto^ 

IS: 21 1-1959 


32. *ft® rnro/T^T-3233 
30—1 1—1972 


33, tft® il7To/T^T-3234 

30-11-1972 


34. tft® T^To/rr^r- 323 5 
30—11—1972 

35. tttto/^-3236 
30—1 1—1972 


1-12-1972 30-1 1-197 3 ^ fspPT %o, ifF Ro *fo fa qpff % 

3 5 8; ¥RTGR: faftfiM *>lfa'J|, tff PHT HTTT 

Pt^-tft ^r, ^FFft (^pki^ Ti'WT ) ti i ^ 7 5.65 fn +H o — 

IS: 1 5 20—1969 

1-12-1972 30-1 1-1973 flt® SHTSKT *F* RTo fao, ^TRT fat U ^FlpRH 

<FR! TtiT, ’^TT^FTT (*T^T- ^ Fi ij ^FTFT % rfTT— 

W) IS: 39 8— 1961 

1—12—1972 30—1 1—197 3 FFFT %f*FFHT, ^RT TFT, T^f- Tjf^rf IJSFT ^ i j s <— 

5TFT ^R3^-4 IS: 130-1 958 

1-12-1972 30-1 1-1973 FTf*T^T, RWFFTR qT#fh fa £«(■- 

tt^ f^r^rT Wr (^rrtrfFnr : IS:2S67-i963 

ftrf^Fr TmTFr «te, ^tftjt-io 

)l 


[Tfo Tffo TjiTo bYo/ 1 3: 1 1] 
RTo qfro %TT ; 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


2177 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


S.O, 1700 . — In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) 
Regulations, 1955, as amended from time to Lime, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that thirtyfive licences, particulars of 
which are given in the following Schedule, have been granted during the month of November 1972 authorizing the licensees to use the 

Standard Marks. 

SCHEDULE 


SI. Licence No. (CM/L-) 

No, 

Period of Validity 

From T o 

Name and Address of the Licensee 

Article/ Process Covered by the 
Licences and the Relevant IS : 
Designation 

(1) (2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

1. CM/L-3202 . 

Lll-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

Shau & Company, 223, Belilious 
Road, Howrah (Office : 129/10, 
Belilious Road, Howrah), 

L N 

Sluice valves lor water works 
purposes, upto 300 mm size— 

IS : 780-1969 

2. CM/L-3203 . 

1-11-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

The Aluminium Industries Ltd., 
No. 1, Ceramic Factory Road, 
Kundara, Kerala State. 

PVC— insulated and PVC— -shea- 
thed solid aluminium conduc- 
tored cables of voltage rating 
upto and including 1100 volts — 
IS : 4288-1967. 

3. CM/L-3204 . 

1-11-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

Scwrcclron & Steel Co., 6, Sewrcc 
Cross Road, Horabay-15. 

Structural steel (Standard Quality) 
—IS : 226-1969 

4. CM/L-3205 . 

1-11-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

-do- 

Structural steel (Ordinary Quality') 
—IS : 1977-1969 

5. CM/L-3206 . 

1-11-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

Accumax Limited, ‘Appeksha’ 
Bhakt in agar, Station Road, 
Rajkot (Gujarat), (Office 
Naval Kunj Annexe, Dr. 

Rajendra prasad Road, Rajkot-1 
(Gujarat) 

Vertical deisel engines of the 
following rating : 

KW RPM Type 




3,67 5HP 1500 VW-2 

IS : 1601-1960 

6. CM/L-3207 . 

1-11-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

Vicki Electronics, Plot No, 92 C, 
Kandivilee Industrial Estate, 
Kandivilee, Bombay-67 

PVC insulated cables : 

1. Single core, unsheathed, 250/ 
440 volts grade with copper 
conductor; and 





2. Single core, sheathed, 650/1 100 
volts grade with aluminium 
conductor. 

IS ; 694 (Part I & UM964 

7. CM/L-3208 . 

3-11-1972 

16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

Mysore Agro Chemicals, Ansari 
Road, B Linder, MangalorcT 

DDT Emulsiflablc concentrates— 

IS : 633-1956 

8. CM/L-3209 

3-11-1972 

16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

-do- 

Endrin cmulsifiable concent- 

rates— IS : 1310-1958 

9. CM/L-3210 .... 
3-1 1-1972 

16-1 1-1972 

15-11-1973 

Tata Eison Industries Ltd. Plot 
No. 94, Industrial Estate, 

Ambattur, Madras-58 

FenitroLhion emuEiflable con- 
centrates— IS ; 5281-1969 

10. CM/L-321 1 , 

3-11-1972 

1-11-1972 

31-10-1973 

Kavisa Industrial Corporation, 
(Conductor Divison), A-5, 

Industrial Estate, Varanasi (UP) 

Hard-drawn standard aluminium 
and steel-cored aluminium 

conductors for overhead power 
transmission purposes— IS ■ 

398-1961 

11, CM/L-32I2 . 

3-11-1972 

16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

Bnhan Maharashtra Sugar Syndi- 
cate Ltd, Shrecpur, Tahasil 
Malsiras, Distt. Sholapur, 

Maharashtra State, (Office : 
980, Sadashiv Peth, Common- 

Rum — IS : 3811-1966 


wealth Bldg,, Laxmi Road 
Poona-30 Distt. Poona 

(Maharashtra State) 

12. CM/L-3213 .... 16-11-1972 15-11-1973 Brihan Maharashtra SugarSyndi- Gin — IS : 4100-1967 

3-11-1972 cate Ltd, Shrecpur, Tahs il : 

Malsiras, Distt. Sholapur, 

Maharashtra (Office ; 980, Sada- 
shiv Peth, Commonwealth Bldg, 

Laxmi Road, Poona-30, Distt. 

Poona) (Maharashtra State) 


13. 

CM/L-3214 

3-1 1-1972 

. 16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

-do- 

Whisky— IS : 4449-1967 

14. 

CM/L-321 5 . 
3-11-1972 

. 16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

-do- 

Brandies — IS : 4450-1967 



2178 THE 

GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 

1895 [Part 11— 

(l) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

15. 

CM/L-3216 . 

10-11-1972 

. 16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

Hiron Small Scale Industries, 
J/5A, Burwaritala Road, Cal- 
cutta-10 

Miners’ safety leather boots with 
leather sole only— IS : 1989- 
1967 

16. 

CM/L-3217 . 
13-11-1972 

. 16-11-1972 

15- 11-1973 

Metropol Corpn. (India), 262, 
Phase 111, Inside Okhla In- 
dustrial Estate, New Delhi -20 

Laundry soap, type I, Grade II, 
pure — IS : 285-1964 

17. 

CM/L-321 8 . 

13-11-1972 

. 16 11-1972 

15-11-1973 

-do- 

Liquid soap — IS ; 4199-1967 

18. 

CM/L-3219 . 

13-11-1972 

. 16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

B.C. Iron Foundry, Sultanganj, 
Agra 

Cast iron steps for manholes 
pattern I and 11 — IS : 5455- 
1969 

19. 

CM/L-3220 . 
14-11-1972 

. 16-11-1972 

15-11-1973 

Shankam Machine Tools Pvt, 
Ltd., 27A, Modern Industrial 
Estate, Bahadurgarh, Distt. 
Rohtak 

Cast iron flushing cisterns for 
water-closcsts and urinals, 

bell typo, 12.5 litres capacity 
only— IS : 774-1971 

20. 

CM/L-3221 . 

28,11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

Steel Tubes of India Pvt. Ltd, 
27/34, Industrial Estate, Indore 

Steel tubes for automative pur- 
poses, grade ERW-1 only— 
IS ; 3074—1965 

21. 

CM/L-3222 . 
28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

The Megna Mills Co. Ltd, P.O. 
Jagatdal, Distt. 24 Parganas 
(Office ; 16 Strand Road, 

Calcutta) 

(i) A- twill jute bags— IS : 1943- 

1964 

(ii)B-twiH jute bags— IS : 2566- 

1965 

22. 

CM/L-3223 . 

28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

Sindichem Ltd, Town Sindi, 
Tahsil & Distt. Wardha (Office : 
Dharaskar Bldg-, Ramdaspeth, 
Nagpur- 10 

BHC dusting powders— IS : 561— 
1962 

23. 

CM/L-3224 . 

28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

-do- 

BHC water dispersible powder — 

IS : 562-1961 

24. 

CM/L-3225 . 

28-11-1972 

. J -12-1972 

30-11-1973 

* -do- 

DDT dusting powders — IS : 564- 
1961 

25. 

CM/ L- 3 226 . 
28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

-do- 

DDT water dispersible powder 
concentrates— IS ; 565-1961 

26. 

CM/L-3227 , 

28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

-do- 

Endrin emulsiflable concentrates— 
TS : 1310-1958 

27. 

CM/L-3228 . 

28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

P.N.M. Company, Perundurai 
Road, Erode (Office ; 95, 

Koilampalayam Road, Erode- 1) 

BHC dusting powders— IS : 561- 
1962 

28, 

CM/L-3229 * 
28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30- U -1973 

-do- 

DDT dusting powders— IS :564- 
1961 

29, 

CM/L-3230 * 

28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

-do- 

Malathion emulsiflable con- 

centrates— IS : 2567-1963 

30. 

CM/L-323 1 . 

28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

Sova Private Ltd, Sundakka- 
muthur Road, Kuniamuthur 
Post, Coimbatore-8 (Office : 
Kuniamuthur, Coirn bat ore-8) 

Vertide diesel engines of the 
following rating ; 

KW R.P.M. Type 

3.7(5HP) 1500 SOVA-1 

IS ; 1601-1960 

31. 

CM/L-323 2 . 
28-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-1 M973 

National Metal Pressing Corpn., 
83/2, Industrial Area, Banga- 
lore-22 

Wrought aluminium utensils 

Grade ; ‘SIC’ — IS : 2M959 

32* 

CM/L-323 3 . 

30-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

New Vijay Industries Ltd, R.S. No. 
358, P.O. Willmgdon College, 
Vishrambag, Sangli (Maha- 
rashtra State) 

Horizontal centrifugal pumps 

for clear, cold, fresh water, 
size 75x65 mm only — IS :1520- 
1969 

33. 

CM/L-323 4 . 
30-1M972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

C. Prabhudas & Co. Pvt. Ltd, 
Industry Division, Bunder 

Road, Bhavnagar, (Gujarat) 

Steel wire for the core of steel- 
cored aluminiums conductors — 
IS : 398-1961 

34. 

CM/L-323 5 . 

30-1 1-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

Swrup Chemicals, Water Works 
Road, Aish Bagh, Lucknow-4 

Aldrin dusting powders — IS : 

1308-1958 

35. 

CM/L-3236 . 
30-11-1972 

1-12-1972 

30-11-1973 

Sindichem Limited, Town Sindi, 
Tahsil and District Wardha 
(Office ; Dharaskar Building, 
Ramdas Peth, Nagpur-10) 

Malathion emulsiflable concent- 
rates— IS : 2567-1963 


[No. CMD/13 : 11] 
S.K. SEN, Director General 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYA1STHA 26, 1895 2179 


31 R-/, 1973 

"»n. arc. 1701— am' ^ 3TT7 ttfW; 

CR'fa faWRO f^tTR-, 1952 $ 3 3f+7 8 7TW qt^T 

(fqq>m 31+7 fsff^nED orfufR^rR", 1951 7ft ui7r 0 
finr Jfifqmf tr jt^t 7577+ ^ qfefk tr?7R7, (1) 
sfr 3471+75 JT7T? 1 q? fwr 77 arwffr, rW wlfewq arro 
f*E*+te7> q7T?w^f afro 84 sf+7 r/]rh 7+s Rfti^ (2) 

s+. t?r #p ^ sstet i7 artTf^r, frr?q; ips an^ 

ftN7> +RW NlflVlWM fel+H^, 78, ^7 d/+RM 7+3, 

C3) arer^T, qfrffTnyfPT afro 77577 Sfag fa/+ , 78, jfa 

R++RFT 7+8, (4) sft TpiFT SWT, »+W ?*7te“w 

IfT^e +«+R^8, HFTRT E1W, THETfif HwM 7+3, Rftl^ 

28 1974 *re>, faren^ *TT! TTlfter *ft 7 T?£R?W tf*, 

arqfv ^ RFiVfRTffr ?ww 7+77^ 7? trr^tf ^ 

fcrtpfTT 7177++ «“ 31+7 HT77T 7T77R7 7? i^^rsf airW+Tjcu 
iWlTT 7+ afT^T 7T. 4058/an^ g+ 3R7 ^0/8/72 , TIItW 29 
*T7*77, 1972 4 1 ^TRfsrtOTr whET 7477++ 34»4f7T j— 

arNV 7+ +Yr 1 *f , 

(1) qnr w. 5, 0, 24 ariV 25 rw ; ^R 7 + TRrtW rMn 7+ 

7+ WET 77 Wt qnr 7 f. 31+7 7?7?NNl 7^f 

3TFH++, 34*4+74 ; — 


the 28th November, 1974, and makes the following amend- 
ments in the Order of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Industrial Development No, 4058/IDR A/6/8/72 
dated the 29th November, 1972, namely : — 

In paragraph 1 of the said Order : — 

(1) for Serial Nos. 5, 6, 24 and 25 and the entries 
relating thereto, the following serial NolS, and en- 
tries shall respectively be substituted, namely : — 

“(5) The Chairman, M/s. Association of Synthetic 
Fibres of India, 84, Veer Nariman Road, Bom- 
bay; 

(6) The Chairman, M/s. Silk and Art Silk Mills 
Association Limited, 78, Veer Nariman Road, 
Bombay; 

(24) Dr. A. Scctharamiah, Dilector General, Directo- 
rate Geneial of Technical Development, New 
Delhi; 

(25) The President, Association of Man-Made Fibre 
Industry, 78, Veer Nariman Road, Bombay;”, 

(2) after Serial No. 25, the following Serial No. and 
entry shall be inserted, namely : — - 

(26) Shri Subhas Thakkar of M/s, Importex Private 
Limited, Sadhana House, Dadabhoy Naroji Road, 
Bombay.” 

[No. 15 (8)/71-LC] 
S. B. GObL, Under Secy. 


*niR 


“(5) 3TKr^r, *+W 34175 f+47*+f?75 TR^T^f 

W ?forqr, 84, #7 7+8, 

“(0) 3HW, *+*Ff Wf> STTcf ffaeR- QTrff^R - 

ITR ttt+Rd'e, 78, T++7 Rt+RET 7+8, ip^, 

(24) 8T. qr TfrfriVrisrT, TFFfiVf +77774 R1JT- 

f#nm, 

(25) 34777(4, (NTt+TRSET 34175 75^77 78, 

^7 R7+RTR rfe", 

(2) RTR- 7f. 25 4 TOU +H TR tyi+<slR 7HT 7T. 31+7 
R+qt^ 3RT:7RT+77r *R+ RRFft, aT^+TT :— 


(fEe-RI7 qf^) 

Rsf fTR+f 1 , 15 5p-, 1973 

*ffT, ■W. ^1702. 7r^rT?++ R75RT T*rEf+ SRT +^r 

627 . 8 RT^, 1960 ^TT7T fTT^ RTi RRrfK 

RT7 fWr 1951 $ fq^rq- 434 ^ ^ 3 ^ (5) ^ 3^. 

7R7 €|r.-RT 7 Rqi+Rq'<(iqi ?+ Ti+t^R 1 e^TfNrf'R 7?^ 

1-7-73 4 ETR+ropT T7 RTR+t ^ ^ f , 

Cr. 5-22/73 Eft. tjsr. sf+.] 

qffTT, Tlfm; RTflfR^fpP (++. RFC. 4) 

ministry of communications 


"( 20 ) Tpw 5W7, t|W ?wrfRVr +r+r- 

5^ TmRT |W, TNTVl^ rttM 7+S, I" 

OT. 15(8)/7H?er. if+J 
^+. Rkw, 3TCT TT+RR 


ORDER 

New Delhi, tho 31st May, 1973 

S.O. 1701. — IDRA/6/4/73 — In exercise of the powers 
confened by section 6 of the Industries (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1951, read with mles 3 and 8 of the Deve- 
lopment Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby appoints (1) The Chairman, M/s. Associa- 
tion of Synthetic Pibres of India, 84, Veer Nariman Road, 
Bombay, in place of Shri Ashok Garware, (2) The Chairman, 
M/s. Silk & Art Silk Mills Association Ltd., 78, Veer Nari- 
man Road, Bombay, in place of Shri D. N. Shroff, (3) The 
Piesident, Association of Man-Made Fibre Industry, 7ft, Veer 
Nariman Road, Bombay, (4) Shri Subhash Thakkar of M/s. 
Importex Private Limited, Sndham House, Dadabhoy Naroji 
Road, Bombay, as members of the Development Council 
for Man-Made Textiles, for a period upto and inclusive of 


(P & T BOARD) 

New Delhi, the 7th/I5lh June, 1973 


A/ TV t J- r »T UM ' VjL p aitl vaj or section ILL of 
<= M XT 34 Tele e rfl ph Rules, 1951, as introduced bv 

L°; 627 dated 8th March, 1960, the Director General 

Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 1-7-1973 as the 

fa KOHTMaVv P ca T cd , Rate Systcm will be introduced 
m KOHIMA Telephone Exchange, North Eastern Circla 


[No. 5-22/73-PHB] 
A. S. VOHRA, 

Assistant Director General (PHB). 


31+7 nuRTf jjqn^r 

18 R-^, 1973 




1 1 '■I ! M m , 


f* **%*<&*» f^r, 1958 <* ^ ’^^wTz) 
* 8 t O) TVn W arftrarrf 

qiT iFTfir 7577+ Eft tfcfa- RTFR ^+ Wl 7+R37 srf# 7+ 



2180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


30 ^T, 1073 TTi ^ OTTO t fTW 

^ t— 

1, «fhnft *fNr 

2, s iteft 3WT 

3* TTFnft 

4. h ^ 3i h r i i <ri 

5. ^ ^iqi 3i *-ti <1 

DT ll/3/72-^(^)] 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 
New Delhi, 18th May, 1973 

8*0. 1703. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) 
of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958. the Central Government 
hereby appoints the following persons after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors as Members of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate 
effect upto 30th June, 1973: — 

1. Smt. Vecna Sethi 

2, Smt Asha Seth 

3 * Smt. Malati Gilanl 

4. Smt. Manju Agarwal 

5* Shri Zoya Ansari 

[No. 11/3/72-FCC)] 

WT. 3TT. 1704.— ^^ 1952 WTTT 5(1) 

Sift ^F^rNr?) F=RRT, 1958 4 F^RT 9 ^ (2) 

4 dW F^rt 8 4 st-F^rri- ( 3 ) itw ariWirf 

^rr m<h!'i tou 4 *1 Vi < »ii« r tF 

<Rmf ^ <p! ttwm 30 

1973 W TW ^ ^ ^W^rTT SIW'flR *PT 

F^r^m f^TT^rr ?“ 1 

Rf. ll/s/72-^(^)] 

S.O. 1704. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 5 (1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule 
(3) or rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cinema- 
tograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government 
hereby appoints Smt. Minakshi Basu after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors as member of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with imme- 
diate effect upto 30th June. 197). 

[No. 11/5/72-FCC)] 
^ 19 1973 

«pt. «r. 1705.— arfwf^rw, 1962 «f ft mr 5(1) 
ariV dter) F^=rt, 1958 4 Ftrri 9 4 w-Fot ( 2) 
4 hrt qfsr Fwr 8 ^ gr-F^Rr (3) Hf? arFiiwi 
^rr Tr^rtrr wef 573 , tr^ ^ FqiRT ^rr 
TTRR tf TrF srF 

30 ^T r 1973 ^ q? JT^TCT *R(TWR 37T 

F^R^tT fW if : — 

1 . A ^ 

2. ’.fMi- 'RpR 

[R. ll/4/72-f7U(ffF)] 

Ftf?, sm rFr<t 


New Delhi, 19th May, 1973 

S.O. 1705 * — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 5 (1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule 
(3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cine- 
matograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints the following persoas after consul- 
tation with the Central Board of Film Censors as Members 
of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with 
immediate effect upto 30th June, 1973: — 

1. Smt. G. Dubey 

2. Smt. Padma Sadanandam 

[No. 11/4/72-FTQ] 
HARJIT SINGH, Under Secy* 


sift fcnriiH- 
(^rw Wwr) 

^ 2 ^jT, 197 3 

W>MTT-1706'ii<xflq fatefll c Tfx<TT Tfuter, 19 5 6 (l956TT 102) 
^t *TTTF 3 tit TTTTTT ( l) ti (^) ti TWTf ^ 

4 PdHRihrf *rterf tft% fen *nt 

5TTT iff § r fflTrfhT Rl^wi 

ww ten mr ^nrr. — 


® j rter *pt tft ttt PttPtt frPr 

TFT 5TTT 

teffTT ten 

i. ttr qpo ^?TTt Wvi^, q-^rrr ter- 25-3-1973 

^tt+'M < Nten tern fwirr 

RT ^TTTTT TWTff, **€(*($ 
afh no n$o TtefTT ^ PTTT 
TT 'jft AT *rfuteH 
um 7 ^ TTURT (3) ^ 
ntftr w Tter T ttbt 

^ i 

2- ¥To Tfo Tto ten, TOTTTTpf, tefW 7-4-1973 

0/TofN sfrrter, tenn 

wv- ^rfhtTTT *rf fjkt 3 vf '3 Turn ( 1 ) ^ ^wtff 

% # *TTFr TTT^ THTHT *7 

TTFTT nfh^TTT To 5-13/59 tnT°TT^o PtTTT 9 ^?T, 1960 

^ %m terteter wmr vr?ft tfpt: — 

TTTtTT Tfu^TTT ^ "UTTT 3, (l) % ?3FT (q-) 1 ' 

% Ttsftr teffter % jrfD — 

(1) To 9 ^7 nte qfrf^ % ttit qr ter- 

M%t Mfdwte tit 

“tto tpTo ^irT, tenr, FTTter^T fTten 

ftTOT ’ffFJTTFT TteTT, 1 

(2) *mm teFftermr T ^frfe to 46 ^ 

tk fTRftrter Tfrte ^ srrM, tftt: 

rr 47. TTo Tfo fffo tefT, TUTTTT Pf, t^TTm 
TtefFT TOtT, fWT 1 ’ I 

[To^fo H0l3/l/72 FT. fft. it.] 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


fHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2181 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 2nd June, 1973 

S.O. 1706,— Whereas in pursuance of the provisions of clause 
(b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the following persons have been elected 
by the University specified against each of them to be membcis 
of the Medical Council of India with effect from the dates 
noted against each, namely : — 


Name of person Name of University Date of 

which elected him election 

1 Dr. P N- Chhunltani, Punjab University 25-3-1973 

Director, Post-graduate 

Medical Fducalion and 
Research Institute, 

Chandigarh vice Dr- Y. 

Sachdeva who has ceased 
to be a member of the 
Council under sub-section 

(3) of section 7 of the 
Act. 

2 Dr. B-P. Sinha, Principal, Himachal Pradesh 74-1973 

H- P- Medical College, University 

Simla. 

NOW, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the said Act, the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the noti- 
fication of the Government of India, in the late Ministry of 
Health No 5-13/59-Mf, dated the 91 h June, 1960, namely 

In the said notification, under the heading “Elected under 
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 M — 

(i) for the entry against serial No 9, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely:- - 

M Dr, P. N. Chhuttani, Punjab 

Director, Post-graduate Medical University 

Education Research Institute, 

Chandigarh’ * 

(ii) after entry No 46 relating to the Calicut University, 
the following entry shall be inserted, namely : — 

“47 Dr. B.P. Sinha, Himachal 

Principal, H-P- Medical College, Pradesh 

Simla*’ University 

[No 1 1013/1 /72-MPT] 


^ t^ft, 4 1873 

VT. OT. 1707. — ^TT: HTTTfk MW 

1950 (1956 5frt 102) qft (M 3 qft ^TOlrr (1) qt 
(35) qt 53"wrf q?T 3in,n< ij i qrii Tr*TT sttb; t qnrffti 
inqn7 qt Timf it htw 4 8 yri, 197? i smq; 

q- qsWt7 7TW *£ tqfcfT tWT 3? ST. 

IP Fit!! 3^ 8 *TPf, 1973 i VTlrftq- 

qfrqf BRT yfw y-if-flq far^TT i 1 1 

3pt, app s'W arfyFnqy Vi 1 uttt 3 qft ^wn (1) q5 
g-wrf spr qni tutt 7T7qn7 ^ 

H’qnq 3ft 9 at -i 3/1, i960 qft 

if. 5-13/59-WT. Tfi, if iJrl^TTO 3TFt fcrRfrrfW W-W 
35 if : *1l*t<n: — 

stFtp^h 1 4 qnr i. is qt smi wir 3 qft sr-tmr 

CD bfb (q:) ^ spfN - faqfNrrr #fqt qt iipfq- Fq^qyR 


JTfqfe 3? W 37 FrrMTW 3?3^5 JftVwtw qft ifli, 

RW:— 

"BT. TPTTk flf§ SfFT^, 

udid^u-TTt^irNq', fifWrr f^r, 

T 3) I 

[if, it. 11013/2/73-^. it. ell 

yit qvd'^siii, -3137 trFqq 

New Delhi, the 4th June, 1973 

S.O, 1707, — Whereas the Central Government has, in 
pursuance of the provisions of clause (a) oi sub-section (1) 
of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 
of 1956) and in consultation with the Government of Jammu 
and Kashmir, nominated Dr. Santokh Singh Anand, Adviser- 
cum-Secretary, Medical Education, Jammu and Kashmir 
State, to be a member of the Medical Council of India with 
effect from the 8th March, 1973: 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the said Act, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Health No. 5-13/59-MI, dated the 9th January, 1960, 
namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading Nominated 
under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 3, against serial 
No. 15, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

*‘Dr, Santokh Singh Anand, AdvIser-cum-Secretury, 
Medical Education, Jammu and Kashmir.” 

[No. V. U013/2/73-MPT,] 
Km. SATHI BALAKRISHNA, Under Secy. 


'T'fnr 3ri*7 STPTT fanMW 7HIH3 

1 1973 

WT. 3TT. 1708.— qTT: 31 1973 qft 7T3" 3rf g ?g 33 

q^r trq; qffTf 737 F3RFT it. £.■£. ftp JTfTTT 
it t- <ril q» Tfi'i iHft >3 <?M ^ < t! fj; 3H-H it rl'JiVR H 
ift^T ^ qTPTT qt r^qid ‘l, id HIM W ft irqi f^nqt 
3?<u|Wiq?5 4 fqrTFT >T7 7TqT7 48 w| (qfq- 35 tN4 

3(^7 ^TTT: H7qiT7 af^TT 3T77ft f35 f Tjd ^T 

qft qiVTwfWf qft 377-^rT qfg-rfa ^ ' 

3T7T:, 3T3", 3F^TPT f^WT, 1937 ^ tn^JT 75 ^3T7T TT^T^ 
?rfqqrqi' qiT qr<i i^r^3T7r 

qmft fq; fT-JV: 3i artVqri^qi srra - qft snf i 

qt^Nr y <qii< vu'-q qr<i ^ tthtjt- 

qt ^TRmfhfr, it 7i1V^ ir«r7 qrt qr 7 ?ft f i 

s^^tq- H735T7 3-W 3Tfq- ^ 3RtlT7i i, ^ # 37pf 

qni ^ fnHfdfad- qrt it tn^qq - ^7it 

(1) Jp f. it. inft, imihr qiq; iqT, 

(2) it. fq"7 

itrqr, qrsff 1 i 



2182 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYATSTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


SIFT 3GTW 3ERT ^ 7 ^ 30 3^T, 1D73 ««? 

ttfer Eirf wi i 

[ITT. #. <?• sft. 15012 / 20 / 73 -^] 
'TFT 'll iW. TT-W?^" 

MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 1st June, 1973 

9,0. 1708. — Whereas on the night of 31st May, 1973 an 
Indian Airlines Boeing 737 aircraft VT-EAM, while opera- 
ting a direct flight from Madras to Delhi, crashed about 2-J 
miles east of Palam near Vasant Vihar, resulting in the death 
of 48 persons (including 5 crew-members) on board; 

And whereas it appears to the Central Government that 
it is expedient to hold formal investigation into the circum- 
stances of the said accident; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
rule 75 of the Aircraft Rules, 1937, the Central* Government 
hereby directs that a lorrrml investigation of the said accident 
be held, 

The Central Government Is further pleased to appoint 
Shri Justice Rajinder Sachar of the Delhi High Court to hold 
the said investigation, 

The Central Government is also pleased to appoint — 

(1) Group Captain A, D, Ralli, Indian Air Force, 

(2) Capt. D, Bose, Operations Manager (Training), Air 

India, Bombay, 

to act as Assessors to the said investigation. 

The Court of Inquiry will complete its inquiry and make 
its report to the Central Government by 30th June, 1973. 

[File No Av. 15013/20/73-A.] 
S. N. KAUL, Dy. $ecy. 

M 22 1973 

1 70 9 — RT TTfRTfl Fd RTR jfi 4 ftPBT, 

196 9 ■FT 5TPFT % RfR I ftftr- 

fhOT, i960 (i960 FT 59) W IHTT 38 ^ TUTHT (l) 

gro rhcr % « unr 2, 3, ™ (ii), Rnfar 

2 wm, 1969 F 3239 TO RTTR TOFK $ r *J^ 

f^TTRT TO 4’ if <67 M6 ( £' fa fV'TFT) Ft 

Ro FT* iSTTo 3091, mtt* 25 RTO#, 1969 % TOM 

TOfrfM TOTt «qf*RRTf R 15 ftTCFU i, 

1969 TO *TT^T RT W* ^ ^ fTO TO- 

RT I 

^ TO RFd RTTOT TOR Ft 2-8-1969 Ft FTT 

fro to rt i 

^ WT ^ R TOTT R FM RT TOR 

JSTO g* *1 

w * sir tot srfafMro i960 

(i960 FT 59) * ETHT 37 % TO ETPT 38 FFT TOT 

ft TOR g*, ^SKl fTOr 

(l) RfiTO nw ^ 

(i) HR Mfli FT TO RfTOT FFR FTR ^ftF ^F5 
fRqR, 1972 & I 

(ii) 5 fFtfr tot ft tr mTO ft ftW Mr tot 

^r^nr TRtpq TTfk^ini STRT fMd F^ I 


( 2 ) nfr^TOfm — 

3 R froft % ^ nr fo TfrjJ ?r TRmT Trtfw * ?fr - 
(*f) "jrftrPnm" ?t sfta % 5(1% f^r^ncm* 

I960 'MpflMi ft I 

(*) f 'sTf*HTT WT % f%TT ^5 

Trftr^FT ft f%% Tpfrwr qr qr 

% ^mrTT tt 5r^w fz^TT" ffTTr frw 

?iTT ft % qFTT ^TRT I 

(’r) 5TTfuWt n % TT^q ^TOfTlT qr t%TT ^ 

SUfTORf TT^I *K*.K 4tiqT^T fTPPT 

ski In bin fThTf^zr Ttfwld ft I 

(v) ¥r ^ ft 

3. f%fJ TTT^TT 

(i) ^rftrfwr ^ Trtftr TMfKqrr ^ hr# ttTwt qr 

tt >i fvi <ii y i qt^T qq n qr% 

TT W ’TTTOT TOT ^ ft*TT rftT TOT % 

fMwqj ’tFdfw ^pfr | 

(ii) Trrr tttTOt fqfft^T qrfimft ^Mt ^t^tt 

^ sr^tq’ ti i u i ^ n ; hrqTTT *t> fuT 

sfR qf; bfTRT TT Tff frfTOT TOT T Tt 

flTTOT TTftJTPft fTO TT^TT, %^T 

Tt^TR TTT^T 3TRT W fWlT ? fT I 

4. qfar vfijTF^f^TT: — 

^ M q# trr^FT % TFT WtT 

wiid ^bft ^fT 1 % qr farfr tto M3>r % tttt 

^tt q%qt ^tt f®F fqfftd qTfwrff ijTTT WhMz: bmrr ttT i 

5 . tMfMr ^ TOT TT wd 5T¥T: — 

(i) fq%r qrfTOrff ZTTX ^rrd fw qwr 

TT 5TUTT-qZT % qfTT TOT % ftFlT I 

(ii) w< Mr t^t % ^ fW q% iff w 

% TO W Ttw fr TT^^ff qftr qf ^TT WTT qT^TT ^ 

Mr q% ^ qqrr-w # brr ?Pr i 

e. TfTOT:— 

fR *qfTT FT froff % TpfPT TfM^tTTT 
frqr TO ft WTT TO ^ ^ bMTT fM dTO 

if qfro tot % wr i 

7 , tMro tt bmar: — 

HR froft % W IPTT Tf%TO TTqbrr % TOT % 

f^rrfr Ft M Tr qTO q?TT qr j%fMr £ fro toto 

F^FTT fVt Thf r uV sqfaT ^ TTOn qr TO q?r 

r%F TT RTOt Mft *ft qfqfe TOfTR 5Tfbf%fT fW W 
5nf«mft % tn^tt Tort i 

8. Tfwr R frr $vm # bmr ttMtr to 

qfabroT rpt 23 qrt TOFrrr (5) rfro^: % 

qfqfe f^t fqftrpTO R TtRFR % Mt FT FI^T, RRF ?PJ“ 
^ft R ^rfror rrr R ^Rtt ’rfK fMRfWf % wftc 

ffprr Rt Tbi^tw *t Mtto toft-to tt ft Mrr ^ti%rt RVt 
f i Mr Ft to ttoto fro ^rrRqy 1 



Sec. 3(ii)| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2183 


9 . 5ron*T vt ftrft sfirot irrft : 

■rtf *qfiq firm qrq m fqqqf 4r mfR TfqRfiR ftrqr 
mn ft q? *4 tt ft? Tfjr^mr tt *pr to 

qft qqr ft, qr w w ft tffi tt^t w? 44 #q 

TfirR?Ri v j i ijfr -h i ' j i m ^ 44 0 qfi ^3% 4V ^mmr fii 

f^TTR^f 4 qq4jR % firtf Jqr t ftRr fir jjr ^fir 

pffirrq % 5HTFT TO <FT I 

io «ftw fti *4 ^ mr*t wt^ sotf»t to cmi 

*4 srfrmi 

Mm qTftT^rrf $t % srqrq to qT qrofi jqft 

nftiRifi qr TO Ri m h 4 % mPr ji [ <] fir?? TO TO MR'-m to qrr 
q^f* qfi, qfu firqq 4r q^rfir PTrfqq "jffq rro^ ^ i y i 4TO 44, 
-ro^r ' 3 Trft fir4 r 4 4r qrof^ qqRftET fTOrrpfqT i 

srro 

*T^IH TO TT W*q 

(Ftto 3 ftfiR) 

*r, vqY^wrerfV, sTfaro toR Rfi fTOq i969 4r 

^rfff’T P^r^srr qfirojfir^q % fiR qRro q? «i 1 ^ < q^ts 1 < 1 

_ Rw toto ^ fir fiRfirfircr firfirfirot *i4t gqfro srmrrcV 
vftK ftWRFT^TTT TOT sfa ft I 

iTPTTSTT 

TPCfW — 

q?rr firq tt Tfir^ftv^r to 
RTOT ft I 

1 . Rqr q*n4 4 *tRt*t to jrr ^ 

2 , qTOT 4 5Pm TOP (qft TOf ftt) fipf 

3 , Trf^PTr 


4. qT 4 t (qr) qrro q fm fn^rrr ^r ^r q^r m (v) 

vrm if FiTf w qm Rsr qr qft R?rt p 4 q^rt ^ 

w R 1 — — — — — — 

5 , 4*ft qr m4 % wr 'Rt t fw rtp ^ qR r 
( qf^ mi ^) ^rr^fr irTwr ^ R^r ^r *ft 

qftrfer qrRT | r qf^ter ^r mm 'rrt | (qf^ 

?ft f^rRiq n ^ 1 

6 frnt fir JRT ^fqqq qiPT ^ ^ fiPTP, 196 9 
% Rtffq q^r Tfir^ffR ^trr & 1 *rft fr^rr ^ 4t Tfir^fir Tli r % 
wpq q^ ^r firet 1 

7 . (i) srfirqq qnfi qfir ^fR qpg^ff q?r f^r fir 7 ^ * — 
qfirf^ fiR qfir qqftR fiR ^R qfit 

firq wr fi^pq wtt 

(qr) qfirfipr 

(w) qqfifPT 

fVq rsrR qrf 5HRR ^ I 
qRqr fir^T *fi #TT ^Tq 
( i i ) snfirq fiR ^nfi qfir 
q^?T ?T qfirfiTrT 

sfR rjfr^ fipR 4w 

8, irfipR qr ^rfipRff 4r RHTpq WR ^tftrTR & 

qfiRT qR firRr »qfqqq ^ff qq fiiqT^RT 

I R fiR% fiR ^ fi^R TRT | WT ^ ^T 

ipT qorrr 4 ^ft Rfirqq ^ Rffirr ^ fii4 q>iH mm ^ 1 “ ■, 

qqiR f ^ W Iwr t mrnRT 

qTRqrrPr % fiR RrfR R4q ^nrr qrfi4, ^rfim 
*Rfa, «fk trt fr fiq A sft: ^ fiRT r4r 

itfR iqfiprq it >TFT ^R qR fiqq 4r fiR RR 

SR qq qrr qR ^Rr qif^t 7 4R Mrt aqqwwr 

jt^T t Rtrt ^ri qfir r ^ W3 ^rt R i 


fWta 

(fiRT S W) 

T fiT^firrrq ipr qqFT TO 

qqrfirf firqr qrqr J fir qq *qfiq <ft f^q% qfi q pFqfqf^r fifirfi^Rt ft ^ RfW ^ ^ qpf ^ ^Rqq, 

19 9 9 ^ qtffq TfiTfffir^ qrfir^rfi % rt fiR % fiR Tfir^ffR qr Mn rtt ft- 


?qrq tt FTq : 
mftg ; 

rr>rRT 4 qfrfcr ’pq q^r Rf^rfit ^r firfqq % ^rRT'flT 


PFq 1 

pr=q 2 

R*q 3 

mm 4 

RR 5 

rtvt 6 

^rrq 7 

fqriq 8 

Ri^r 9 

qfirw^r qr m- 

Trfi^mrr 

qrnt (qr) rtt q^qqT m qfi 

fiqft q4 Tfir^t- trfqqq qrr^ qfir srfiRq ^ qrqr- 

Tfirr^firq 

rjftq l 3Rnft % 

pf qry qrq 4q- 


^r fiqr firrrr 

iRt irfir qq 

qTTq qfl firfir- rsfR rJTWt 44 

7Tq Tfq m fqq- 

^ 3T<rw 

qfi fm\rv\ 

qiq 


^^TR RT qTTT qr 

qrrq qfit :j fl m 

feqt 

fTFT 

FT 


■qfufqqq i9 60 



(*j) qFTT t 

rsF^qt qft qfir- 





£TRT 24 % 



^qfi; iw rt 

fipr firqr 


qfirfirq rr^fir 



qtfrq Rrqroq 



firq qr qfirw 

RPTT ft 1 


firq 3 tft °h ^ 



nr? Mt R 



qT qR?fi m 



qfif qfir 



fwr wFr ^ 



firi q4 q^rf qft 



firrr firq 



p n cu f 

tqfiTFWT 



^rr rJTT H% 1 



qwr rfiqr 





31 GI/73 — 8 



2184 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 I Part II— 

(fFFF 6 

tt sm 

TT^F 1 2 FrFF 3 FFF 4 «P*T 5 6 7 fd^F ft ^F 9 


FfifPJFfT TT STT-Tlffe^TcTT FT ) FTTT ^ TFT FI F^ MV 7* FT** wfFFF % FrUT- sffir ^FgflV % 

FT TFT if ft*TrT iFFTF 3TCT FfFFF F^F *TF fcftF Sf-^sft ^ fw TT ft*- FT fllffaT S rfd^d T Ml’ 

FFTF *T TFT FT FT% 5F§*ff felt » — * T^r FfabETF 

(gt) ftoi if vt 5 ffrr^ Mt FftTforr smfa 1 9 ho q?V eit t t 

wft TFT ^TFTT I M *FT 4 24 T F#T 

TFT TT npn^T^ FTT FT$T rqjirnTT BTFJ 

ft f^f Tt frF — firT Ft MV 

Ft wf Tt w fw Mr ^f^vT tV ftftr- 

^rr FT 1 *psfi fiw fr^rt 


^ ?r T?^ 

(fwr s tftrt) 

Tf^rnrt t firM^rTf t v fab irwih ft rvf 

if tPtfst if fFto: ftfarfeFt if %vm 
*mrt % fat ftTtt i 

ffirr *r, 

faf^r ffrftr+i fr, 

FTtFF TT ’JTT FTF — 

(mr wsm if) 

T TRTF TF T! FW FTTfaT — 

t ^fFTF *FTT FT# sfa fTFF, 1 9 69 % FsfN 

ttf % *nt ffft t* Tt j tfk tTtfft if tm it fT- 
Ftt Ffafe farfarfetf if kiF ^n^rrA ^ fart t ftt ^farFfarfanr 
Fr44rf tf g farrt fat fttw W |i 

hft f? Ff ftFtt | Pit Ftt f^ftf tftf w t ^ Mr 

<ttFft tk TfT^^ror ipr nsfr fft fftf ff tjfI fkiT TFt 1 

FTff^ fWTCTT 

TFT — » — 

fetqqf : — Tf ; if^ + FT % F# 5TFFT FT W ^7^ % M Tff 
qffF Fkr F^f Jt l 

fFTTF-l] 

Ff^> •ffo FFkt, FF-FF'Tf 
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 
Department of Agriculture 
Now Dolhi, tho 22nd May, J 973 

S*0- 1709-Whcreas the draft of the Performing Animals Rul- 
©3,1969, was published as required by sub-section (i) of section 38 
of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (59 of I960) 
at page 3239 of tho Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3 t Sub^ 
section (ii) dated the 2nd August, 1969, under the noti- 
fication of the Government of India In the late Ministry of Food, 
Agriculture, Community Development and Co-operation (De- 
partment of Agriculture), No. 5.0. 3091, dated the 25th 

July, 1969 inviting objections or suggestions from all persons 
likely to be affected thereby, till the 15th September, 1969. 

AND WHEREAS the said Gazctlee was made available 
to the public on 2-8-1969; 

AND WHEREAS no objections or suggestions were 
received from the public on the said draft; 

NOW, THEREFORE, in exorcise of the powers conferred 
by section 38, read with section 37 of the Prevention of Cruelty 
to Animals Act, 1960 (59 of 1969) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules, namely;- 


(1) Short title and commencement :(i) The^e rules may 

be called (he PERFORMING ANIMALS rules, 1973. 
(ii) They shall come into force in any State on such date 
as the State Government may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, appoint. 

(2) Definitions :-In these rules, unless the context otherwise 

requires:- 

(a) "Act” means the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals 
Act, 1960; 

(b) “Performing animals” means any animal which is used 
at, or for the purpose of any entertainment to which 
the public are admitted through sale of tickets; 

(e) “Prescribed authority” means the State Government 
or such other authority as the State Government 
may, by general or special order specif in this behalf 

(d) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these 
rules. 

(3) Application for Registration:— ti) Every application by 
a person desirous of exhibiting or training any performing 
animal for registration under the Act, shall be in the form 
and shall contain the particulars set out in the first Schedule 
(ii) Every such application shall be made to the prescribed 
authority within whose jurisdiction the applicant ordinarily 
resides and, if the he has no fixed place of residence, the 
application shall be made to such authoiity as the Central 
Government may by order specify in this behalf. 

(4) Fee and registration:— Every application for registration 
shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees twenty five which may 
be paid either in cash or in such other manner as may be 
specified by the prescribed authority. 

(5) Form of Certificate of Registration: — (i) The certificate 
of registration to be issued by tho prescribed authority shall 
be in the form set out in the Second Schedule, (ii) Every 
registration shall be given a serial number according to the 
order in which it is made, and (he serial number shall be inserted 
in the certificate of registration issued to the applicant. 

(6) Register :-Evcry person to whom a certificate regis- 
tration is issued unde, these rules shall have his name entered 
in a register which shall be kept in the form set out in the 
Third Schedule. 

(7) Inspection of Register :-The register kept under these 
rules shall be open to inspection during oflico hours on any 
working day on payment of a fee of two lupees and any person 
may take extract therefrom or may require the prescribed 
authority to issue to him a certified copy of any entry 
therein on payment of a fee of five rupees. 

(8) Applications for variation of entries In register;-Evory 
application under sub-section (5) of section 38 of the Act 
for the variation of any particulars entered in the register shall 
be in the form set out In the Fourth Schedule and whenany 
partculars are varied in the existing certficate or registr 
shall be cancelled and a new certificate issued to the appli- 
cant. 



2185 


Sec. 3 (li) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


(9) Issue of duplicate copies of certificates: — Any person 
whose name is registered under those rules may, on proof 
by him that the original certificate of registration has been 
lost or destroyed and on payment of a fee of rupees five, 
be given a duplicate copy of the certificate of registration 
which for the purposes of tnese rules shall have the same effect 
as the original certificate of registration. 

(10) Copies of certificates etc. to be sent to Animal Welfare 
Board: — The prescribed authority shall cause a copy of every 
certificate of registration or duplicate thereof a new certificate 
issued under these rules to be sent to the Animal Welfare 
Board established under the Act, as soon as may be after 
it is issued. 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

(See Rule 3) 

Form of Application 

J, the undersigned, do hereby apply for registration under 
the Pefomiing Animals Rules, 1973, and do hereby dcclaie 
the following particulars to be true and complete to the 
best of my knowledge and belief. 

Signature — 

Dale — 

Address to which certificate 
of registration is to be sent 


PARTICULARS 


1. Full name of applicant 
in block letters. 

2. State name (if any) 
used in Tndia 

3. Nationality 


4. Either (a) address of 
fixed place of residence in 
India, or (b) permanent 
postal address in India to 
which letters addressed to 
the applicant may be 
forwarded. 


5. Address or addresses (if 
any) in India, other than 
temporary addresses while 
on tour, at which appli- 
cant trams or intends to 
train performing anim- 
als. (If none, Write “None”) 


6. State Whether previously 
registered under the Per- 
forming Animals Rules 
1973. If so, state the num- 
ber and date of certificate 
of registration. 


7. (i) Kinds of performing 

animals proposed to be. To be trained To be exhibited 

( ^ r — - — — — — 

Kind Number Kind Number 

(a) tiained, 

(b) exhibited, 

Stating number of each kind. Kind Number 

(li) Trained animals already 
available for being 
exhibited. 

8. Describe briefly the gen- 
eral nature* of the perfor- 
mance of performances in 
which the performing 
animals arc to be exhibited 
oi for vvhcih they are to 
be trained, mentioning 
any apparatus which is 
used for the purpose of 
the performance. 


*The description must be sufficient to give a general 
idea of what is done by the animals taking part in the pei- 
formance, and should stage the approximate duration of the 
orformance the number of times for which it is usually to 
e given in one and the same day, and the number of ani- 
mals of each kind taking part in the performance. It need 
not give details which would divulge any professional sec- 
ret. 


SECOND SCHEDULE 
(See rule 5) 

Certificate of registration 

This is to Certify that the person to whom the undermentioned particulars relate 

has this day been registered unler the Performing Animals Rules 1973, with the registration authority foi 
the 

Serial Number of Entry in 
in Register 

Signature of Clerk of 
registration authority. 

PARTICULARS 


Name of trainer Nationality Eithci (a) Address of fixed Address or addresses at Particulars of any previ- 
of exhibitor Place of residence in India which the performing ous registration. 

or (b) Permanent postal animals arc to be trained, 
address in Tndia to which 
letters addressed to the 
trainer or exhibitor may, 
be forwarded. 

State name 

(1) (2) (3) ’ (4) 



Name of Place: 
Date: 


Kind of Pei forming animals Description of general nature Date of Registration 

f— A i { A » of performance 

to be trained to be exhibited 

Kind No. Kind No. 


( 6 ) 


O) 


(«) 


(9) 


Particulars of any oidcr 
of Court made under 
Section 24 of the Preven- 
tion of cruelty to animals 
Act, 1960 


( 10 ) 



2186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[PAHT II — 


THIRD SCHEDULE 
(See rule 6) 
Form of register 


SJ. Name of trainer Nationality 
No, for exhibitor 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 




Either (a) Address of fixed Address or addresses at which Particulars of any pre- 
place or residence in India or the performing vious registration. 

(b) Permanent postal address in animals are to be trained, 

India to which letters ad dres- 
sed to the trainer or exhi- 
bitor may be forwarded* 


(4) (5) (6) 


Kind of Performing animals 

to be trained. 

to bo exhibited. 

Kind No, 

Kind No. 


Description of general nature Date of registration, 
of performance. 


Particulars of any order 
of Court made under 

Section 24 of the preven- 
tion of Cruelty to animals 
Act, 1960. 


FOURTH SCHEDULE 

Form of applications for variation of particulars entered 
in register. 

Application to have the particulars entered in the register 
with respect to the applicant varied. 

To 

The Prescribed authority. 

Full name of applicant — 

(in block letters) 

Number and date of certifi- 
cate of registration — — 

1 return herewith my certificate of registration under the 
Performing Animals Rules, 1973, and T hereby apply to 
have the particulars entered in the Register with respect 
to me varied, as follows, and for the reasons given below: 

I also request that my existing certificate may be cancelled 
and a new certificate of registration may be issued to me. 

Date.- : — Signature — — 

Address — — 


am*, w, arfafaw, 1947 (1947 ^7 

14 ) trrcr 10 ^mnr ( 1 ) 4 brs (sr) Jr^wr 
jfrfa^rrf 3 >t JPffar 15^3, ^rwr?, vrw 
tircr 7 ^ 4 

far? IR# £ 1 

epmhVr fafr refe, sro- 
«rc ’fwt, faw i^Wt 4 ptfpt? # q-Vw?v 
4 ?Rr if' wf 9 r4 
4 ipnitrr <*$, 

30 1972 arf? smt wt ^ 44 vrf- 

m? 1 f ? *rfa fasr 

4 c'W 4 1 ?” 


NOTE : No fee is payable for the issue of a new certificate 
of registration. 

[NO. 3 5- 4/72- LD-1] 

V.P. GULATE 
Dpty. Secretary. 


»nr arfr ynfa ' *nim*r 

ewr artV rlanin favrr) 
arTT?r 

If 24 Hpf, 1973 

w. air. i7io.— «rrr: 4^k r otr w f fa 

rf 1 fafafa«3 fafprt 4 am 1 if atrter 
eWrtfe Wrffapr otper «tat, fam 

4 4W srfrrt^ qrup ft , 4 irttpfa 

«T5TTV fairflTOT -3Tfa efTifapt 4 «ffa 

fW? fapiUFT f ; 

*RT: g-w fan^ qrf 4 

far? ^rpfr sriu^N 4, 




i, «fttflr>5r 

, AFlT 

2. *rt 


3. 

"TT'HT 

4 


5. (W . 

1T^ 

6- «ft#nr 

WFPF 

7. . 

TFTT 

8. pTt’mtfPr 

TTTA 

9. rfi 

, t TPT J P 

1 0. TFJ . 

W 

11. WtoK 

TfW 

12. 

TPIT 

13- sfrtffo OT?T 

TTPT 

it ^TTJTPPTfin?; . 

, TO 

15. «fr p. 

TTTC 

16, VTIFFTT ffij . 


i7. 

TTW 

18. *fr $frm . 

TRPP 



Sec, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2187 


5TFT 


19. “.ftvtRT . 



20 . ^nrrft 


^ M*r< 

21. ’sft^TC’T 



22. MYnff . 



23 . . 



24. MtMtWT 



25. ►-ft'RRF . 



2ti. ’flsrR'Rt 


TETT 

27 . Mtfwrd faj . 


^ l r l 

28. 



2 9- «ff 


RRmfr 

3 0 . MY 


w=mft 

31. '-ft . 


flnrrdY 

32. MY*m . 


wwreft 

33. MtfiTCT . 


iq i 

34. Mf*nFT . 


«M lift 

35. MYtfrj . 



36. 


VRItfl' 

37. Mt7*m . 


amkA 

38. MY^rMY 



3 9. MY ^tMY 



40 . MV*^ . 


u*mft 

41 MVMPtt 


WRft 

4 2. MY vi fan TPfr 



43 . MYtwr 



4 4- MY TPTWT 



4 5. MY^TFfc 


^TRft 

46. MY^TRT . 


WRft- 

47 . Mtnfatfr 




20012/l58/72-t^ro^rRo-2] 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24lh March, 1973 

9.0. 1710 — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion 
that an Industrial dispute exists between the employers in re- 
lation to Messrs Jay Transport Company, Transport Contractor 
of National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Post 
Office Bermo, Distiict Hazaribagh and their workmen in res- 
pect of the matters specified in the schedule hereto annexed ; 

AND WHEREAS the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1 947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal (No. 2) Dhantad constituted under 
section 7 of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

‘ Whether the action of management of Messrs Jay 
Transport Company engaged as Transport Contractors in 
the establishments of National Coal Development Cor- 
poration Limited, Post Office Bermo, District Hazaribagh, 
in refusing work to the following workmen from the 30th 
September, 1972 onwards is justified ? If not, to what relief 
arc these workmen entitled V' 


Designation 

Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Driver 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 
Khalasi 

[No. L-2Q0 1 2/1 58/72-LR1 J] 

wr4vr 

^ 29 1973 

WT. -3TT- 1711. — ^RT: qv-j/fq H<qv|< TRT 

sTUftr iVn=rt 4 ' Jr 

srtrwit wm? - , fcrar tmrr 4 

^ fqtiMqi T ^ : 3 =t^ ^RtfVrrf ^ *fNr ^ 

’’.I rf^lTl, ?q^ q *|M 4 1 i 

oii7 TiTTr, rret? iVmr ’-frf 4 

wt *HT?f}sr f, 


Names 

L ShriDheraj 

2. Shri Sarsul 

3. Shrl Bhola 

4. Shrt Sudan 
5- Shi 1 Chine 
6. Shri Punil 
7 - Shri Durga 
8. Shri Ashin 

9- Shri Ramdhari 

10. Shri Ramu 

1 1. Shri Tapeshwar 

12. Shri Raghunath 

13. Shri Md ■ Khan 

14. Shri Ramanad Singh . 

15. Shri Suker ✓ 

16* Shri Bhubaneshwar Singh 

17. Shri Chotu Singh 

18. Shri Hiraman Singh . 

19. Shri Bhudan . 

20. Shri Bangali Sharma . 

21. Shri Tun Tun . 

22. Shri Badri 

23. Shri Tola 

24. Shri Bhola 

25. Shri Karu 

26. Shri Janki 

27. Shri Sikari Singh 

28. Shri Amin 

29. Shri Babulal 

30. Shri Jagdish 

31. Shri Kaum 

32. Shri Karu 

33. Shri Briksha 

34. Shri Budhan 

35. Shri Dirtoo 

36. Shri Mahmood 

37. Shri Ramesh . 

38. Shri Bangaii 

39. Shri Kashi 

40. Shri Indoo 

41 . Shri Bhola 

42. Shri Shakti Pado 

43. Shri Bigan 

44. Shri Nagoshwar 

45. Shri Surajdeo . 

46. Shri Nabu 

47. Shri Gobardhan 



[Part II — 


2188 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


3RT:, 3TT, sftftTftfjFP fsPfIT stftriftw, 1947 (1947 *RT 

14) *Rft eft io ^ a'Tmrr O) 4 (e) ^wr 

srat>r ERft ftftftk ?rw fftEir Eft 
sett atfyfcwTT Eft ■am 7 -e> 4 urftftr 
^rty^rf?^ 3rfVK°r (Tfw-2) veett Eft 4 

fTF? 'hr^r^rrr EFftt f \ 

“eet sfftfrt ^ITViyfi, zmn wiw?' fcraT 

iRf^ 4 tffwft Eft EFftr EntEE Eft 9 

3FTFT, 1972 ft EFE ft rfaift *?ft Eil/Erft FJFfiftw 

ft 1 ? Etr e#, at EftEnr fw 3T^fk 

Eft §*R?T7 ft 1 ?” 

[ft, ^.-2012(164)/72-n?r. -397.-2] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th March, 1973 

9.0. 1711. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of National Angarpatbra Colliery 
Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhanbad, and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira- 
ble to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No, 2) Dhanbad constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

"Whether the action of management of National 
Angarpathra Colliery, Post Office IKatrasgarh, 
District Dhanbad, in stopping Shrimati Malti Kamin 
with effect from the 9th August, 1972 from work 
is justified? If not, to what relief is the concerned 
workman entitled?” 

[No. L. 2012(164)/72-LRIT.] 

amfar 

Ef fWt 0 snfa, i0?0 

(FT. 3fl. 1712. — EE: «W[e E7ETT7 E>ft 7FT ft 1 fa EET- 

sqtr ft 1, farNif ^ ’tift ft - EfftFjftbr 

nr.. ttep ;H nsd , -siwt 7TpftNnv ! t 5 it '■ ft (siFE me 41 ) 
^ TFFtrftE' ft fftEiEErt’ srift eee? 1' ^ ftN - 

ran aftUEi'iftra [V-fT^ f-i ‘EE ft 1 , 

-aftft ee: ete V<nE Eft JEiEftEftEE- 4 

[Vp] T*T n s'frj'fHr TFP rftt ft 1 ; 

sra:, 3r=r artV^rffiT^ fWr siMeer) 1947 (1947 

?PT 14) Eft ET7T 7-^P sftft ET7T 10 Eft ETET7T (1) ^ 79^ (E) 
?nRT TT^raT JjrfftEEft ETT EEftr E>7ft 'tWiE WH 
srfarwr Eftsr ft 1 ftrairfftr 
sft ftf. Eftt-fETFE fW, fEEEE R^ETEE 3| Wft Elft, \ft<’l=b 

T'te, 7TEEftft, ^TFTFT-1 ^TT srft ^ fV(TT Eft JW 

3fft^B7nr 9rf ^rprf7(U|jpT 4 ftn? 

^Tlft 5 “ I 


1 . ^rr fftrorM Twpw rw 4 

erwr ^pft, wftrff ^frft wif wt ^ 

4 3T?RT rfsPT 9#4Tt ^ft ^ FFT 

t 3lf? ^ fT, cf[ «FFfnT7 fw aFpftr 
^ 3ftft fnrr TTTrftTsr ^ wr 

2 . Trf«ft ww nW^-f m; it%7 tt^t, 

tr, 4. ^r^prnwT, sft 
3rift ii. ^r^irmw i^rf, is qR, tptt 
^ rgrr, TfRF|tr®tr %, t^trvft 1 
f?T. »f STT^-f sfteifV i^u^js V ^ ni?7 TTfq!5H7 
Ijc^'d f 9fft, 19 ITW7, 1968 Wfl W TTnftgT tf, 

?i>nrn!' ft it 77 ft Rw^rft ^ 

*fift 4 ^nrf-3 ft 1 TTft -ITTft EFT ^TTEf- 

if ? ^rfr ?f, Tit IJW nE-iRTT 3F^lk 
^ uftft TmftTsr ft ifR^R 

3. <F1T ^ft, ^ftrrM ^iftt f?T. ^ 

gift ETfift «tr[ EftrFr TP^ft^r aftft 

-M T 5R7ft ^ft EFT ft 1 ? 

ft, # sjfir ^ft^TTT fti TOT7 ft 11 ? 

4. wr T ’ ft ' E ' M ^ft f eiEftk nftftf" fftr., feff^e ft§?r 

(3fFiii Trft^ir) ^ E^ft ^f?r Tftwnft w, i3E^fft 
hIwi^e ^Iett 4 ^FTFfrr «nft *rft eft •‘‘heI 1 - 
^TTT ft 1 ? Efr ?f, ?ft ^FTT fiRRET 3F];- 

Trftl' 4 3^7 fosr dT7ft73r ft U^T7 ft 11 ? 

5. «FfT ftf ftt. E^F«fT 7K, 3T^, ^ftEfrft 

nftf^FnftjT 9ft ftTIET 

3, EftpEftWft ^ft, dEft fET7T Tf^iT^F" 

EE ?=FrT7 EI7ft E^Tft fts 1 4 180-5- 
210-7-273 77. ^ ft^HETE EFT ^I'-ftTdiq ft 1 ? 

EtT ft ?ft n'ftfbU 3FprfE ^ sftft fw 
ft fRETT ft 1 "? 

[ft. qE-21 01 l/l/7 2-6E. 30 7.-2] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th April, 1973 

9,0. 1712.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of Singarcni Collieries Company 
Limited, Ramagudium Division, Post Office Godavarikhani 
(Andhra Pradesh), and their workmen in iespect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira- 
ble to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7 A and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T. Narasinga Rao, as Presiding Officer with headquarters 
at Afzal Lodge, Tilak Road, Ramkote, Hyderabad-1, and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial 
Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

1. Whether the demand of the Turbine Olivers ot 
Sinfareni Collieries Company Limited, 
Ramagundam Division for appointment of separate 
Engine Cleaners for doing the job ot cleaning 
engines, is justified and if so to what relief the 
workmen are entitled to and from what date? 



Sec, 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


2. Whether the demand of Sarvashri Naniyan Reddy, 
Rammohan Rao, X. Monohar Rao, J. Villal Rao 
K. Satyanarayana, D, Mallesh, Shaik Hussain and 
A. Satyanarayana Murty, Water Treatment Atten- 
dants and Water Softner Attendants in 18 M.W- 
Power House, Ramagundam Division, Singareni 
Collieries Company Limited, for placing them in 
Category-TIT of Coal Wage Board Recommendations 
with effect from the 19th November, 1968 or the 
date on which they were placed on probation, is 
justified? If so to what relief the said workmen 
are entitled to and from what date? 

3. Whether the demand of the union for grant of paid 
National and Festival Holidays to all Badli work- 
men of Singareni Collieries Company Limited is 
justified? If so, to what relief are the said work' 
men entitled? 

4. Whether the demand of badli Coal fillers of 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Ramagundam 
Division (Andhra Pradesh) for covering them under 
the Incentive Bonus Scheme is justified? If so, to 
what relief are the said Badli fillers entitled to and 
from what date? 

5. Whether the demand of Shri B, Hanumantha Rao, 
Chairman, Godavarikhani No. 3 Incline of 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited for the Wage 
Board Scale of Rs. 180 — 5 — 210 — 7 — 273, consider- 
ing the nature of duties performed by him, is 
justified? If so, to what relief is the workman 
entitled to and from what date? 

[No. L/2 10 1 1/1 /72-LRII.] 

SITSV 

Ptf*P, 26 an/Pr, 1973 

"FT. afT. 1713. — W: 4 ^£ fa TTT"FT7 "fP TW f fa 
g-iTTCfy arq^P PqPnP^ Tw? 4 fr 1 Pqrwi qrfa 

aMn T p' g q>P 'ttrt qrfPWP sheer wfaq , '?P, 

Pamr TTTTjjjrr (*n*r ifaqr) q> w^Rfa PqqtarcP 

app gq-q? q> jf=PTrf 4 ^ ^ ap frq^ RF Pq^H 

t . 

aPP W: 4 TTTWT 'd Tn PWh q>P t*1 u r^ *1 4 

Pfr PgifP^w qrrqT qfa -fHr tht *f?P ^ ; 

aRT:, 3PT aP^q/Pw; PwF? afP felPHW , 1047 (1947 "FT 

14) qp inn 10 qP swr (i) 4 irra (ft) ^qm ww 
qr TTErNrr qqp %?, 4?4fo tr*fr gw Pqqw 
<P srPtl'P^TW qp W7T 7-"F 4 arPfa qp5TT ap'^qtPw 
aPWwr qp w q P qPw 4 Pfe? qrrrP 

“wm PPfa Pqrwr qP?r e HgTRfa ymPfarq- PftPVs 
qP P?rr qrfPWP, tito TpqrqPP, Pfrtt tr- 
( t rw rpfan ^ www qq **P <^r 

sft tHtt, jprf-i JT5n?7, qP pqrart qp is anfa, 

1970 if TTOW ^T^TT ^wP P w qT? qfa q#, Tp 

q>*fal< PqRT arq^Tq "FT erqrqR s“ ?’’ 

[TT7?7T 1^/22012/25/72-^. 3TT7.-23 


: JUNE 16, 197J/JYAISTITA 26, 1895 2189 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26th Apiil, 1971 

S,0. 1713. — Wheieas the Central Government is of opi- 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employcis 
in relation to the management of Duman Hill Colliery oi 
National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Post Office 
Sonawnni, District Surguja (Madhya Pradesh), and their 
woikmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Ccntial Government considers it desir- 
able to lefer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, theicforc, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refeis the said dispute for adjudication to the Indust- 
rial Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 A of the 
said Act. 


SCHEDULE 

Whether the management of Duman Hill Colliery of 
Mcssis National Coal Development Corporation 
Limited, Post Office Sonawani, District Surguja 
(Madhya Pradesh), was justified in terminating the 
services of Shri Baijnath son of Shri Rod ha, Cate- 
gory-1 Mazdoor with effect from the 13th April, 
1970? If not, to what relief the workman is en- 
titled? 

[No, L/22012/2W2-I RIL] 


anfar 


q^ PwrP, 27 arPPr, 1973 


"FT. air. 1714. — W: FTTFU "fiP W ^ fa 

gwrf q P?rfaP r fc! Pwqp qt qR 1 ^ 

■3rrq? §Pogqr P P'Nk"frP -sriP ^ ^ 

W art^r/pR^F Pqqi^ P"l^^H ^ 1 


aitp JRT; «Wli gw Pwr^ 35p ^qP^uf^T) ^ 

P?rq Pn^T q iff wr wj#t tf , 

3RT:, arq, artyqpiqqi pqqi^ arfqfqqrr, 1047 (1947 W 

14 ) "fP wttt 10 "fiP gruiTT ( 1 ) 4 sfs (q) fim irw 
^rPwqP w Mql j i ^5 , tr^tr gw Pwr? qif 
gw arPtrpTRRT, "fP f-iRT 7-qi 4 ars/fr qfw aiffT/Pq«F ajfy- 

W, PT^P ^NpMifiH q? P*pi lH<|' r P^I6 t I 

^ w*P 


“wt afro ^PW 4 wwr "fP, fP w. ql. 

"hP, PftPw, PrPw FTTfRT "par, 3R[TRR 24 
fwi, 1969 , qp arfr P Pqqfqr tt?tw 4 grr tp 
w qrwR q PP qP ^rViP mPPw 
f 1 ? qfr q#, P 4T Pw aR^rfci W 

t! 

CTf. IRT. 12012/l73/72^TR. afR.-3] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27the April, 1973 

S.O. 1714. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the^ employers in 
relation to the Central Bank of India and their workmen in 



2190 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto ORDER 

annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it deni- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Delhi constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


S.O. 1713.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to Quarries Nos. 3A and 2D by Messrs. Prabhu 
Dayal Aggarwalla, Managing Contractors at Kedla Colliery, 
Post Office Kedla, District Hazaribagh and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 


SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of Central 
Bank of India in denying the chance to work as 
Special Assistant to Shri S. K. Berry, Clerk, Civil 
Lines Branch, Amritsar on and from th* 24th 
November, 1969 is justified? If not, to what relief 
is he entitled ?" 

[No. L, 12012/173/72-LR1II.] 

an^tr 

m, sir. ms.— w: Vt prct 

*f fawt q5 qn 1 if 

q>ifaq f i , smn fsraT muT wf i if iftrtf mrr’nrr 
3fW?r, inptr (j'qlqw 1" qfi qqrtf nw 3^ artV 2^ 1? 

qr4qj|< i <6 pq> 

fW; f-, 

qq- : hwr ^ faq^ qrf ^ 

far? tMq'T'tiiw qrnr qrcr4hr if*, 

3T?n, srr, fcpnq srfafaw, 1947 C1947 qn 

14) qft 10 qft (1) q} ame (tr) 

^qrcr nrw Jfitqqql' qrr xrqfr q?^fa mq>u sqqr 

faqr* qrf sw 3rfcrf*Tqir qft unr 7-q> ^ snffr qfsir 

arifol friqi (toot 2) tmtq qrt 4 

fro qn^t if 1 

q^T qii?Mqtf, wras r? qfcntT, brw f^rnWr if 

4W tout tout sVotH qft qWt 

toot 3<) if froftfro q. if q. i ri 1 qrt tW 

tVif ^ttot utror? qft q? 23 

3 ftw, 1971 aiiVanititqiriT^qnfp^TT 
4* ? •riff qf q>4q>« tqnr ar^rfr <6 -3rf? fVir 
TOttf ^ fair fqsgn f v 

[¥rWT iTW./20012/20/72-iTqr. 3TT7.-2) 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desii *■ 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, (No. 2), Dhanbad, constituted under section 
7 A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the stoppage from work without payment of 
any wages or compensation to the workmen employ- 
ed in quarries nos. 3 A and 2D by Messrs. Prabhu 
Dayal Agarwalla, Managing Contractors at Kedla 
Colliery, Post Office Kedla, District Hazaribagh 
from the 23rd August, 1971 onwards is justified? 
If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned 
entitled and for what period ? 

[No. L/20012 /20/72-LRII] 

, 5 , 1 9 7 *1 

1716- — TOf Thu 4 spjrpft if fafhfcr 

q Wtfi rer fxAR nrom tft ftmU qlwrfr, sfWtf% 

t; 

vf\r m: TPcrtPT tpt 5 ^ 7 ; if\ wnt mA 

Tift i 

m-, tfliiUw farcrc 1947 (1947 tt 14 ) 

ift uttt 7-v vfa trm 3.w ^ ^Ttrm ( 1 ) htt qw uifi fa^ff 
jfrr WlT*T ^T?t gtr tTT qfaftfw nfet 

^ ft % f5Et% *ft ^0 mro ^q^Tt yW; 

f 3 pm qy m pr 4qnV irPn, rfvr. qniq ,j iTH 5^7 ^ 

fq^rPT h - vrihsuf^pff ^ Aiu'T Wt ^ hrr 

^ fVTTFT % f^PT ^ETTOT, ^ lET WlW 

% ^nq' v^ i kd TOtt ^ TOfqTr^ff R 

5t tott f^nr <rc ^ ^ % 

’fh fitftr ^ wwk ^wr knTPT i 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


2191 


Sec. 3 (ii) J 




^ O f^TPT % q^[T 




wh tmn *fom ^ 

faq fcrffrtrcr w^r f , 


1 . *5TRT T^Ffr?- 

^ rfrr 5R^tpr^r 

2 Tftbmr ^fr% ^rff^TR 
ftrftrtr % fjfan: *fk m- 

er 

3. trrr^r qv* 

faM^, >T3wft % <Fnfcn; 
*ftr 


(faf^r 5/^9 (*^rta) t a 

2 3/ fl 7/ 6 9/q^f ^TP " 0 :» f dP>W 
17 tefT j 1 969) 

(fw tfo 3/70-(%^fqr) 

4 0/ 1 5/ 7 (HJ*T o STTT 0 l,Trtfa 
\SVf, 1 970) 

I 

(Mir 3-° e/7i-(fr^fa) 
i^ro 2901 l/14/71-^o 
4 cTTfW 22/24 ^T, 1 97 1 ) 


4. fijRTT ^ hfa^ %■ ’f^PFTT qtTo 1 201 2 1 9 73 t^fo 

*ftK JTTTo 3 n I 2 1 1973 

[Ho t!TTo 12025/1 5/7 3-^sHTTo 3] 


3TrT:, anr, 3ii'^!?'j|!H kwr a^wtr^nr, 1947 (1047 it 
14) qft tm 7-*> aifr tnrr 10 ttvttt 0) 4 cm (t) 
fim *rr 1 N=er=rV htt R^fr 57?, *fht 7 , ^ 
aff^rtt 3 !^ arftrTrrnr 6 ^ i tO ^ , kirk 'ftenfhr arftmff 
aft tft. #. sfft, farm Jpwm 'HFT57 yfr 
7W hw *k wr arftjwr ^rf $ far 

rttw c i 


"HTT 4*^1 H w h* hi ^ HT4J7k ^ft, ikaft 5T(pft 

fro atfr trwt arreft qri, sft ^ 
htiw, TT?ft war $ anfkw 
4 TV i kq/k ^T ®7 if whi 7 h arw 

fft skrc qft W-n?' ^rcrtkrcr ^7 

k ^»*T*r H fw Si^qn ^ I < if I” 


ORDFR 


Rf. <w. 12012/13/73*^. m 3] 


New Delhi, the 5th May, 1973 

S.O. 1716 — Whereas the industrial disputes specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed is pending before Shri Naryan Rai 
Kudoor, Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Bangalore; 

And whereas the services of Shri Naryan Rai Kudoor 
have ceased to be available; 

Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7~A and sub-section (1; of section 33B of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri B.N. Jayadevappa 
as the Presiding Officer : with headquarters at Bangalore, with- 
draws the proceedings in relation to the said disputes from Shri 
Naryan Rai Kudoor and transfer the same to the said Industrial 
Tribunal, Bangalore, for the disposal of the said proceedings 
with the direction that the said Tribunal shall proceed with the 
proceedings from the stage at which they are Iransferred to it 
and dispose of the same according to law. 

SCHEDULE 


Sl« Parties to the dispute 
NO. 


1. Workmen and the manage- 
ment of Canara Banking 
Corporation, Mangalore. 

2. Workmen and the Manage- 
ment of premier Insurance 
Co., Ltd. 

3. Workmen and the Manage- 
ment of Mysore Iron & 
Steel Ltd., Bhadravathi. 

4. Workmen and the manage- 
ment of Vijaya Bank Ltd. 


Reference No, and date 


Ref. No. 5/69 (Central) 
No. 23/87/69/LRIii dated 
the 17th December, 1969. 

Ref. No. 3/70-(Central) No. 
40/15/70/LRI dated the 
15th May, 1970. 

Ref. No. 6/71 (Central) 
No- L. 290 11/1 4/7 1 -LRI V 
dated 22/24th June, 
197 1. 

No. L 12012/19/73/LRHI 
dated the 21st March, 
1973. 


[No. L.l 2025/1 5/73/LRTI] 


3TnV 

7 1973 

**r. sir. 1717 . — HTfi wt 7 TO- f fa prtf 

v ^ fawt 3} inf if <mnr 

^V'TT - ««i^r fmfnrf 3rfV ^ ifV r r t ^ 

iVnr ^ • 

31 01/73—9 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th May, 1973 

S.O. 1717*— Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the Punjab National Bank and their workmen in 
respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7- A and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri S. H. J. Naqvi shall be the Presiding Officer, with head- 
quarters at Kanpur and refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the said Tribunal, 


SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of Punjab 
National Bank in denying officiating chances on 
clerical cadre to Sarvashri Laxmi Chand Misra and 
Awadh Narain Awasthl, members of subordinate 
staff of Nayaganj, Kanpur Branch of the Bank is 
justified? If not, to what relief are the workmen 
entitled?” 

[No, L. 12012/13 /73/LRHI.] 

m*r 

^ f; <"< 11 , 14 W^, 1973 

w w. 1718 .— ht - ! <£jfcr toi ^ jm f fa prrf 

TTFnftr anraift if fqjVif ftg farr ^ fif if wv gf u rrtPT 

ifte - vs hrir hyiHH t, 

arfl T7T: H7TT7 W ^ 

far kk'kra w^ffr if, 

arr:, air, aifrrfiw, 1947 (1947 

14 ) yT7r 7*^ arfV rmr 10 ^ tT'OTtt (i) h! gn? (q-) 

^rnr ittw i«Wn<iV irnfr ifcfb 



2192 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYATSTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


^ arf^rrjr arkf f, fay 4 <ffarftftr 

kfaWf fa?s sfl. ttHWt irrft, fsnm 

<rfttT 3tf? ^rt 'tft oriWw ^fft 

^ faft ft 1 l 

3T^ft 

“’rtt ftfa ^ Ice im -h smsn ^ 'sft ’ft 1 , 'ft. ?FfTr, 

wnrft, kt ftrrarf u 3 rtot, 1972 ft 

TTRIRT Sfnfft fafftt JPFSRT^T ^TFTft^PT 

ft 1 ? ^ ^ fary an^rk m ?w ft 1 1” 

[ft. W- 12012 / 42/73-T?T. 3TTC. 3] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, 14th May, 1973 

S.O. 1718. — Whereas the Central Government is of opi- 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the South Indian Bank Limited and their 
workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desi- 
rable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A, and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10, 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tri- 
bunal of which Thiru G. Gopinath shall be the Presiding 
Officer, with headquarters at Madras and refers the said 
dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal, 

SCHEDULE 

'Whether the action of the management in terminating 
the services of shri P. P. Thomas, temporary peon 
at Kottayam branch of the Bank with effect from 
the 14th August, 1972 is justified? If not, to what 
relief is he entitled ?’* 

[No. L. 12012/42/73/LRIlI] 
New Delhi, the 5th June, 1973 

S.O. 1719,— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the. Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal Calcutta, in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of 
Jaipuria Kajora Colliery of Messrs Swadshl Mining and 
Manufacturing Company Limited, Post Office An dal, District 
Burdwan and their workmen, which was received by the 
Central Government on the 29th May, 1973, 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
AT CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 57 of 1972 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the management of Jaipuria, 
Kajora Collieries of Messrs Swadishl Mining and 
Manufacturing Company Ltd, 

AND 

Their Workmen, 


Present; 

Sri S, N. Bagchi— Presiding Officer, 

Appearances: 

On behalf of Employers— Shi i M. P. Saraf, Administra- 
tive Assistant. 


On behalf of Workmen— Shri B. S. Azad, Secretary, 
Khan Shiamik Congress. 

State: West Bengal Industry: Coal Mine. 

AWARD 

By Order No. L/19012/37/72-LRII, dated the 27th Sep- 
tember, 1972, the Government of India, in the Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Em- 
loyment), referred the following industrial dispute existing 
etween the employers In relation to the management of 
Jaipuria Kajora Collieries of Messrs Swadishi Mining and 
Manufacturing Company Limited and their workmen, to this 
Tribunal, for adjudication, namely: 

“Whether the management of Jaipuria Kajora Colliery 
of Messrs Swadeshi Mining and Manufacturing 
Company Limited Post Office Andal, District 
Burdwan, are justified in refusing employment to 
Shri Makar Dome, Shale Picker with effect from 
the 27th January, 1972? Tf not, to what relief is 
the workman entitled?’ 1 

2. The management .is now represented by the Custodian 
of Jaipuria |KajOra Moira Group of Collieries and the work- 
men by the General Secretary of Khan Shrumik Congress, 
and both have arrived at a compromise relating to the dis- 
pute referred to for adjudication by this tribunal. The terms 
of the compromise are fair, equitable and beneficial to the 
interest of both the parties. Therefore, I record the terms 
of compromise as prayed for by both the parties and render 
an award in terms of the petition of compromise which shall 
form part of the award. 

Dated, May 21, 1973. 

S. N. BAGCHT, Presiding Officer 

BEFORE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 1NDUSTRIAT 
TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

Reference No. 57 of 1972 

Name of Parties : 

Representing Employers Shri J. Tobias, Custodian, Jai- 
puria Kajora Colliery (Moira Group) P. O. Andal, 
foist. Burdwan. 

Representing workmen: 

Shri Banarsisingh Azad, General Secretary, Khan Shramik 
Congress, P. O. Ukhra, Dlst. Burdwan, 

POINT PETITION OF COMPROMISE 

1. That Shri Makar Dome will bo reinstated as shale 
Picker with effect from 21-5-1973 at Jaipuria Kajora Col- 
liery. 

2. That there will be no claim for any back wages for 
the period of his un -employment. That his absence from 
27th January, 1972 will be treated as authorised absence. 

3. That this agreement resolves the present dispute fully 
and finally. 

4. That the management will pay a sum of Rs. 100/- as 
the cost of the proceedings to the General Secretary, Khan 
Sharmik Congress, Ukhm. 

5. That both the parties therefore pray that the Hon’blc 
presiding Officer will be pleased to give an award in terms 
aforesaid. 

Representing the employers 
Custodian, Jaipuria Kajora 
Colliery, Moira Group. 

Witness: 

1. Sd /- Illegible. 

2. Sd/- Tlleflible. 

Representing the workman 
General Secretary, Khan 
Shramik Congress. Ukhra. 

Sd/- Illegible. 

Moira Colliery, 

Dated, 19th May, 1973. [No. L-19012/37/72-LR ILJ 



Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


S.O. 1720. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the matter of an 
application under Section 33 A of the said Act, from Shri 
Tarjen Chritiun, Fitter, Regd. No. 6733, Baragolai Colliery, 
Post Office Baragolai, District Dibrugaih, Assam, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 29th May, 1973. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
AT CALCUTTA 

Miscellaneous Application No. 9 of 1972 
(Arising out of Reference No, 154 of 1966) 

Parties: 

Sii Tarjen Christian, Fitter, Regd. No, 6733, Baragolai 

Colliery, P, O, Baragolai, Dist. Dibrugarh, Assam 

Applicant 

Vs. 

Management of Messrs Assam Railway and Trading 
Co. Ltd., P. O. Margherita, Dist. Dibrugaih, Assam 

Opp. party 

Present: 

Sri S. N. Bagehi — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

On behalf of Applicant — Absent. 

On behalf of Opp. party — Sri J. K. Ghosh, Advocate, 
with Sri S. P. Sen Gupta Advocate. 

State: Assam Industry: Coal Mine. 

AWARD 

This is an application under Section 33 A of the Indus' 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, filed by one Sri Tarjen Christian, 
Fitter, Regd. No, 6733 of Baragolai colliery against the 
management of Assam Railway and Trading Co. Ltd., and 
il has arisen out ot Reference No. 154 of 1966 which is 
pending adjudication before this tribunal. 

2. On the date fixed for hearing of this application at 
the Camp Gauhati of which notice was duly served on the 
applicant the applicant did not turn up before the tribunal. 
The Opposite party appeared and filed its rejoinder in due 
time and was present on the date of hearing of the appli- 
cation at Camp Gauhati. Unless the applicant workman 
preferring an application under Section 33 A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act complaining against the management contra- 
vention of the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act during the pendency of a proceeding under 
Section 10 of the Act before a tribunal, presents himself 
before the tribunal to support such application and lo prove 
the allegations against the management relating to specific 
contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the Act, 
it shall be presumed that the applicant's complaint against 
the management for alleged contravention of any provision 
of Section 33 of the Act has no basis. 

3. So, this tribunal holds that there is no dispute in 
regard to the alleged contravention of any provision of 
Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act by the manage- 
ment as complained of by the workman applicant. 

In the result, I render a ‘no dispute’ award and reject 
Ihe application under Section 33 A of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act. 

This is my award. 

Dated, 21st May, 1973. 

Sd/- 

S. N. BAGCHI, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-19025/ 16/73-LR 1IJ 


JUNE 16, 1973/ J YA1STHA 26, 1895 2193 


New Delhi, the 6lh June, 1973 

S.O. 1721. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Ran jit Singh which was 
received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (Hons.) CANTAB 

BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/30 of 1972 

under section 3 3 -A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Ranjit Singh, T, No. 363-B, Carpenter, C/o. BS.L. 
workers Union, Sundernagar. Complainant, 

Vs. 

Executive Engineer, Harabagh Tunnelling Division, 
B.S.L. Project, Sundernagar (H.P.) Respondent. 
Appearances: 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar— for the complainant, 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shi i Ranjit Sin^h, who was employed ns a carpenter with 
the respondent Executive Engineer, has fiiled this com- 
plainant under section 3 3- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, and has inter alia stated therein that he had proceeded 
on sanctioned leave from 12-8-1971, and as his wife fell 
seriously 111, he had sent a telegram for extension of leave 
and he again sent another telegram for extension of leave 
on 8-9-1971 as his wife did not recover, and that when he 
returned and reported for duty on 13-9-1971, he was not 
allowed to join duty, even though he had submitted a 
medical certificate and a certificate from Sarpanch of pan- 
chayat in support of reasons given by him for getting his 
extended, and that even though reference No. 2/C of 1971, 
in which he was a concerned workman, was pending at the 
time when the respondent Executive Engineer declined to 
reinstate him with full back wages and did not allow him 
to resume duty, despite his filling an appeal before the 
Superintending Engineer, B.S.L. Administration and Accounts 
Circle, Sundernagar, and in that way there has been contra- 
vention of the provisions of section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. Tn the reply put in by the respondent Executive En- 
gineer, he has taken a preliminary objection that this com- 
plaint was not maintainable as it was by way of a claim for 
payment of wages, and it did not lie before this Tribunal, 
that service conditions of the complainant had not been 
altered to his prejudice and that neither he had been dis- 
charged nor dismissed from service. 

On merits it has been admitted that the complainant pro- 
ceeded on leave with effect from 12-8-1971 to 18-8-1971, 
but it has been denied that he had asked for extension of 
leave or took any steps to inform the respondent Executive 
Engineer. It has also been stated that he could not given 
any satisfactory reason for remaining absent from duty for 
more than 10 days without seeking permission from the 
competent authority, 

that on an appeal haying been filed by him, the Superin- 
tending Engineer, Administration and Accounts Circle, Sunder- 
nagar, on compassionate ground and due to scanty of techni- 
cal hands, had allowed the complainant to join duty, but 
ordered the period of his absence from duty be treated as 
leave of the kind that wus due lo him, and that as per 
certified standing orders, he had not been removed from 
service but he was deemed to have voluntarily resigned and 
in view of claiise(s) of the certified standii\g orders his 
name having been removed from rolls for long absence from 
duty, without permission. 



2194 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


3. No written rejoinder was filed by the complainant blit 
he verbally reiterated the position taken by him in the 
complaint, and refuted the stand taken by the respondent 
Executive Engineer in his reply to the complaint. 

4. On the pleadings of the paities, the following issues 
were framed: — 

Preliminary 1 raues: 

(1) Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable 

for the reason as stated by the respondent that the 
complaint being a claim for payment of wages for 
a certain period, does not lie before this Tribunal 
and that the proper forum is the Payment of 
Wages Authority? 

(2) Whether the complaint is bad in law inasmuch as 

according to the respondent there has neither been 
any alteration or a change in the terms and condi- 
tions of service to the prejudice of the com- 
plainant during the pendency of industrial dispute 
which had been referred to this Tribunal for ad- 
judication, as he was neither discharged from ser- 
vice nor dismissed, and the provisions of section 
3 3- A are not attracted? 

On merlta 

Whether there has been any contravention of the pro- 
visions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 as claimed by the complainant and his 
name had been removed from service without ob- 
taining prior approval from the Tribunal before 
whom reference No. 2/C of 1971 was pending? 

5- Shri Ranjit Singh, complainant, has examined himself 
as a witness as also Shri Mohinder Singh, his authorised 
representative, who has merely stated that reference No. 2/C 
of 1971 was pending when the impugned action was taken 
against the complainant without securing prior permission 
from the Tribunal. 

Shri Ranjit Singh has more or less reiterated the stand 
taken by him in the complaint, and has placed on record 
telegrams that he had sent, Exts, C/1 and C/2, for securing 
extension of leave, and medical certificate, Ext. C/3, certi- 
ficate of Sarpanch E?t. C/4, and orders passed by the 
Superintending Engineer, Ext. C/5, on his appeal, and has 
maintained that despite his having put in satisfactory docu- 
mentary material to show that he had duly applied for ex- 
tension of leave, he had not been allowed to tesume duty. 

6. The respondent has examined Shri Rattan Lai, his 
authorised representative, as a witness, who has maintained 
that since Shri Ranjit Singh failed to report for duty after 
having been absent for more than 10 days, i.e. from 12-8-71 
to 4-9-71, without taking leave, his name was removed 
from the rolls and he was to be treated to have voluntary 
resigned as per orders passed by the Executive Engineer, 
Ext. R/L He has admitted that he had no document in 
his possession to show that the order, Ext. R/l, had been 
co mm unicated to the complainant, Shri Ranjit Singh, but 
has stated that since he had remained absent without taking 
leave for more than 10 days, his case had been treated as 
that of voluntary resignation as per certified standing orders. 
He has denied receipt of telegrams for extension of leave, 
but has maintained that if leave without pay were to be 

S ranted to a workman, the date of increment would be 
eferred to that extent i.e. for the period involved. 

7. It is not understandable why the respondent chose to 
take the impugned action against the complainant after the 
complainant had proceeded on. sanctioned leave and had 
applied for extension of leave through telegrams on the 

g round of his wife's serious illness, and had produced certi- 
cate, Ext. C/4 of Sarpanch, Strangely enough, the autho- 
rised representative of the respondent, for reasons best known 
to him, has chosen to deny receipt of the telegrams, though 
in the orders passed by the Superintending Engineer, Ext. 
C/5, he has referred to those telegrams sent for extension 
of leave by the complainant and has stated that since no 
intimation had been sent by the respondent Executive En- 
gineer to the complainant about the orders having been 
passed about the telegrams so that the complainant could 
have come, and under these circumstances he (the Superin- 
tending Engineer) considered that the punishment awarded 
to the complainant was heavy and that he be given appoint- 
ment, and for the back period he should apply to the con- 
cerned authority for regularisation of his absence but that 
he would not be entitled to any wages for the back period. 


It is rather curious that after having terminated the 
services of the complainant, who had submitted telegrams 
for extension of leave, he had not been informed about the 
orders he obviously could not be expected to return to 
leport for duty. This is all the more relevant when the 
Superintending Engineer in appeal passed orders that the 
complainant should be allowed to resume duty and he should 
apply for regularisation of service for the period of absence 
and added that he was not entitled to back wages. This 
order is not consistent with the explanation furnished by 
the complainant or rational, and there appears no justifica- 
tion for depriving the complainant of wages for the period 
of involved and adversely effecting his increment, while keep- 
ing in view the statement made by the authorised represen- 
tative of the respondent Executive Engineer that if leave 
without pay were to be given, his date would be deferred 
to that extent. 

Since by passing the orders complained of, the service 
conditions of the complainant have been adversely effected 
and the order is not justified, it is held that the complainant 
is entitled to regularisation of service and also to payment 
of wages for the period in question, and award is given 
accordingly. 

Dated, 16th April, 1973. 

P. P. R, SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRITT.] 

S.O. 1722. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Jabdoo which was re- 
ceived by the Central Government on 28-54973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P, R. SAWHNY, B.A. (Hons) CANTAB 

BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 1/22 of 1972 

under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

ShrJ Jabdoo, Bcldar, Token No. 322-S, Jaral Colony 
Sub Division, Pandoh Township Complainant 

Vs. 

L The Superintending Engineer, B. S, L., Administra- 
tion and Accounts Circle, Sundernagar Township. 

2. The Executive Engineer, Construction Production 
Division, B.S.L, Project, Pandoh Township. 

Respondents. 


Appear ances! 

Shri Mohinder Singh— for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai— for the respondents. 

AWARD 

Shri Jabdoo, bcldar, had filed this complaint under sec- 
tion 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It has been 
inter alia stated in the complaint that the S.D.O., who had 
charge-sheeted him, was not competent to do so, as he had 
the power to only suspend a workman for four days and 
he could not order any recovery from a workman and in- 
flict any punishment of recovery, and that since the impugned 
action had been taken during the pendency of refeience No. 
2/C of 1971, without securing prior permission from this 
Tribunal* there has been contravention of the provisions of 
section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 

2. The allegation against the complainant, Shri Jabdoo, 
beldar, is that some parts of truck No. B.L.-32 had been 
stolen during the night between 16th and 17th February, 
1971, which had come about due to his negligence i.e, of 
Shri Jabdoo. 



Sec* 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/J YATSTHA 26, 1895 2195 


3. In the reply, that \yaa filed by the respondents, the 
following preliminary objections have been taken and on 
merits, it has been stated that after the charge-sheet had 
been framed, a proper and fair enquiry had been held con- 
sistent with principles of natural justice, and that the com- 
plainant had been provided with full opportunity to defend 
himself, that the impugned action had been taken after care- 
fully considering the facts on record, and that this action was 
justified and in order. 

Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint was not maintainable as the re- 

covery/deduction from the wages had been ordered 
for the damape caused to the Government property, 
which was directly attributable to the neglect and 
default of the workman, and the opposite parties 
were, therefore, well within their right to invoke 
the provisions of Section 7(2)(e) of the Payment of 
Wages Act, 1936? 

(2) That the applicant bad neither been discharged nor 

dismissed fiom service and for that 1 cason no cause 
of action arose to the complainant to come to indus- 
trial Tribunal. 

4 . The complainant put in a rejoinder thereafter, challeng- 
ing the correctness of the pleas taken by the respondents by 
way of preliminary objections, as well as in respect of 
merits. 

5. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
were framed 


Award is given accordingly. But the parties are left to bear 
their own costs. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 


[No, L. 42012/1/73/J.R II1J 

S.O. 1723, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of the a complaint under sec- 
tion 33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Krishan Lai which 
was received by the Central Government on 28th May, 
1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH. 
Complaint No. 2/43 of 1972 

under section 33-A of the Industrial Tribunal Disputes Act, 

1947. 

Shri Krishan Lai, Welder, Token No. 842-C, 

C/o. B.S.L. Workers 1 Union, Sundemagar, — Complainant 

Vs, 

Executive Engineer, Pen — Stock Division, 

B.S.L. Project, Sundernagar Township. — Respondent. 


Preliminary Issues : 

(1) Whether the complaint is not maintainable for the 
reasons as stated by the respondents that recovery 
in respect of deduction of wages ordered by the 
respondent Superintending Engineer in wages could 
be secured by invoking the provisions of section 
7(2)(e) of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 ? 

(21 Whether the complainant had not been dismissed or 
discharged from service, and as such there was no 
cause of action which could be adjudicated upon by 
this Tribunal ? 

Oa merits : 

Whether the respondent, Superintending Engineer was 
justified in awarding the punishment in ordering 
deduction of wages for the alleged damape caused 
to the respondent's property, which according to the 
respondent, Superintending Engineer was directly 
attributable Ju neglect and default of the com- 
plainant? 


Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Togar— for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Krbhan Lai, Welder f has filed this complaint under 
section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and has 
maintained therein that he held substantive temporary post 
and after he had completed three months’ service satisfac- 
torily, and he went to resport for duty, on 3-10-72 a notice 
was handed over to him to the effect that his service had 
been terminated with effect from 30-9-72, which was in con- 
travention of the certified standing for factory establishment 
that were applicable to him, and that his services had been 
terminated without payment of one month’s advance wages 
and without serving any chargesheet ets,, and without obta- 
ining prior permission from the Tribunal before whom refe- 
rence No: 2/C of 1971 was pending, and that there had 
been contravention of the provisions of section 33(2) (b) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


5. Since the parties did not wish to lead any evidence in 
respect of the preliminary isues, arguments of their authorised 
representatives were heard in that behalf. 

The impugned action that has been taken by the respondents 
is under section 7(2)(c) of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, 
and the complainant has not been dismissed or discharged 
from service for any action connected with the matters in 
dispute in reference No, 2/C of 1971, which are as under: — ■ 

( 1 ) Revision of pay scales of work-charged employees ; 

(2) Regularisntion of the services of work-charged emp- 

loyees; 

(3) Accident and retrenchment compensation to employees 
drawing more than Rs. 500 per month ; 

(4) Introduction of a gratulity scheme, 

t 6. Section 7(2)(e) of the Payment of Wa^es Act, 1936 pro- 
vides for lecovery of a loss, if any, sustained and it cannot 
be deemed to be a punishment as envisaged by section 33-A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. As such it is held 
that there has been no conti avention of the provisions of sec- 
tion 33 of the Act and that respondents were justified in 
taking action against the complainant undei section 7(2)(e) of 
the Payment of Wages Act, 1936. 


2. The respondent in the reply to the complaint raised a 
preliminary objectwn that Shri Krishan Lai was employed 
for a specified period and that his service stood terminated 
without service of any notice. 

On merits, it has be^en stated that since Shri Krishan Lai 
had been employed on temporary basis, he should not be 
deemed to be a substantive temporary employees, that clause 
17 of the certified standing orders was applicable to 
him, and that there was no necessity for getting prior per- 
mission from the Tribunal, 

3. No written rejoinder was filed by the complainant, and 
instead his authorised representative verbally Generally con- 
troverted the pleas that had been raised by the respondent 
Executive Engineer in reply to the complaint and reiterated 
the stand taken by the complainant- 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
were framed 


Preltminary issue t 

Whether the complaint is not maintainable as accord- 
ing to the respondent. Executive Engineer, the com- 
plainant had been engaged for a specified period 
after which his services stood terminated without 
service of any notice? 



2196 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


On merits 

Whether there has been contravention of the provisions 
of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, as alleged by the complainant in his com- 
plaint that he had been removed from service by 
the respondent Executive Engineer, without obtaining 
permission from this Tribunal, when reference No: 
2/C of 1971 was pending before this Tribunal? 

Thereafter the complaint was fixed for the evidence of 
the parties on 28-12-72, but on that day, it was given out by 
the parties that the dispute had been settled out of court. 
Accordingly statements of the authorised representatives of 
the parties were recorded. 

5. Shri Rattan Lai, the authorised representative of the 
respondent, has stated that a decision had been taken to 
take back Shri Krishan Lai in service and to allow his con- 
tinuity of service, ^ but that would be without payment of 
wages for the period that he remained un-employed. 

Shri Mohinder Singh, the authorised representative of the 
complaint after hearing the statement made by Shri Rattan 
Lai has stated that since the dispute had been settled out of 
court, the complainant did not wish to pursue the complaint, 
and that it may be disposed of as not having been pressed 
and withdrawn. 

6. Keeping in view the statements made by the authorised 
representatives of the parties, reproduced above, the com- 
plaint is disposed of as not having been pressed and with- 
drawn. 

P. P. R, SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L 42012 f 1/73/ LR ill] 

8*0. 1724. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribu- 
nal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Sukhdev Raj which wa« 
received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS ) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No, 2/23 of 1972 

under section 3 3 -A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
Shri Sukhdev Raj, welder, Token No: 619-AH, 

Pundoh Dam Division, Pandoh, — Complainant. 

Vs 

The Chief Engineer, 

Beas Sutlej Link Project, Sundcrnagar. — Respondent 

Appearances: 

Shri Dhani Ram with the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai for the respondent. 

AWARD 

It has been Inter alia stated by Shri Sukhdev Raj in his 
complaint, 

that he was transferred from Communication Division 
No. 1, Nangal 7'ownship, District Ropar, to Pandoh Dam 
Division, Mandi (H. P.) on L5-1972, 

that be was again transferred from Pandoh Dam Division, 

Pandoh to Communication Division No. 1, Nangal Township 
on 11-5-72, and was again sent back to Pandoh Dam Division 
Pandoh from the Communication Division No. 1, Nangal 
Township 17-5-72, 

that he was again transferred to Pandoh Dam Division 
Pandoh, and then to Penstock Division, Slapper on 29-6-72, 
but the Executive Engineer, Penstock Division declined to 
lake him on duty on 29-6-72 and he apprehended that he 
may be transferred again within a few days just to harass 
him, that he having been declared as a protected workman 
by the B.S.L. Mazdoor Ekta Union (Regd.) Pandoh, the 


respondents were not justified in harassing him In this man- 
ner and transfering him from place to place, and in that 
way there had been contravention of the provisions of sec- 
tion 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 

2. In the reply filed to the complainant, a preliminary 
objection was taken that the complaint was not maintainable 
as neither conditions of service of the complainant 
had been changed, nor he had been awarded punishment of 
dismissal or discharge. 

In regard to merits, it has been maintained that the res- 
pondent was competent to order transfer the complainant 
within the pi oject, in the interest of woik, and that this Tri- 
bunal had no jurisdiction to pass any orders in the matter 
of transfer of a workman, from one Division to another 
within the Project. 

And I hat the complainant was not a protected workman as 
per provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and the 
rules framed thereunder, and the complainant deseivcd dismis- 
sal. 

3. Subsequently an application was filed by Shri Sukhdev 
Raj in continuation of ms complaint, dated 30th June, 1972, 
stating therein that after his filing the complaint he was 
ordered to join duty at Pandoh Dam Division, Pandoh by 
the Personnel Officer, B.S.L. Project, Sundemagar vide his 
letter No, 54 14-1 5 /Tribunal, dated 1-8-72, but since there 
was no mention in the order regarding his attendance from 
23-6-72 to 3-8-72, and also in regard to payment of wages, 
suitable order be passed so that the respondent, Chief En- 
gineer may mark his attendance and pay to him wages for 
the aforesaid period. 

The Authorised repercsentaive of the respondent Chief 
Engineer has couceded that the orders had been passed by 
the Chief Engineer, directing the complainant to join duty 
with effect from 1-8-72 at Pandoh and in pursuance thereof 
the complainant had joined duty. He has, however, main- 
tained that Tribunal could not take cognizance of the dis- 
pute that had been raised in the complaint, i.e. for marking 
liis attendance from 27-6-72 to 3-8-72, and for payment of 
wages for the said period, as the remedy that was open to 
the complainant was to approach the Authority under the 
Payment of Wages Act. 

After hearing arguments on this application, the putties 
were provided with an opportunity to lead evidence. 

4. Shri Sukhdev Raj, complainant, has examined himself 
as his only witness, and reiterated that he was a protected 
workman and also what he had stated in his complaint re- 
garding transfer etc., having been treated like a shuttle cock, 
and about his presence having not been marked with effect 
from 26-6-72 till 3-8-72, when he received orders from the 
respondent Chief Engineer, Ext. C/7, directing him to re- 
port immediately for duty to the Executive Engineer, Pandoh. 

The respondent as examined Shri Rattan Lai, his autho- 
rised representative, as his only witness, who has maintain- 
ed that Sukhdev Raj was not a ‘protected workman’ as en- 
visaged by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and added that 
Shri Sukhdev Raj had been transferred from one Division to 
another Division in public interest 

5. The complaint obviously does not lie and the appli- 
cation subsequently given in pursuance thereof is also not 
maintainable in as much as it has not been made clear in 
th* complaint iteself, or in the statement of Shri Sukhdev Raj 
as a witness that any industrial dispute was pending before 
Tribunal at the relevant time or that he was in any way 
connected with any such industrial dispute* 


The question of contravention of the provisions of sec- 
tion 33 could only arise provided an industrial dispute be 
found to be pending at the time when the impugned action 
was taken, and the person against whom action had been 
taken, was connected with the dispute that may have been 
pending. 

On this ground alone the complaint as well as the subse- 
quent application, dated 26-7-72, deserve to be dismissed. It 
Is, therefore, unnecessary to go into the question as to 
whether Shri Sukhdev Raj is entitled to payment of wages 



2197 


Sec. 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


for the period 26-6-72 to 3-8-72^, when according to him his 
presence was not being recorded. Award is given according- 
ly that the complaint and subsequent application are held 
not to be maintainable, but the parties are left to bear their 
own costs. 

P, P, R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LR1I1] 

S.O. 1725. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Dispute Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Dilbagh Rai, which was 
received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973, 

BEFORE SHRI P. P, R, SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, CENTRA) CHANDIGARH 

Cainplaint No. 2/24 of 1972 

Under Section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Dilbagh Rai, Token No: 5SQ-W, 

Electrical Division No. 3, 

Sundemagar Township. — Complainant. 

Vi. 

Chief Engineer, 

Beas Sutlej Link Project, 

Sundemagar, (FI. P.), — Respondent. 

Appearances: 

Shri Dhani Ram— with the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Dilbagh Rai has inter alia stated in the complaiat 
that ho had been charge-sheeted for alleged manhandling 
Shri Sadha Ram, a co- worker, and on that account his sub- 
sistance allowance had not been paid to him during the 
period he remained suspended, and one year's annual in- 
crement had been stopped on basis of the report submitted 
by the enquiry officer, and that there had been contravention 
of the provisions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

2. In the reply filed to the complaint, the following two 
preliminary objections were taken by the respondent. Chief 
Engineer, and on merits it has been maintained that being 
dis-satiefied with the reply to the charge-sheet submitted by 
the complainant, the punishing authority appointed Shri Sat 
Narain, S.D.O., as enquiry officer to hold the enquiry 
in a fair and impartial manner consistant with the principles 
of natural justice, 

that on his report, the complainant was awarded the 
punishment complained of, the complainant went in appeal 
and the punishment was confirmed by the appellate autho- 
rity, and that since the service conditions of the complainant 
had not been changed in any manner and that he had neither 
been dismissed nor discharged from service, there had been 
no controvention of the provisions of section 33-A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint was bad in law. Inasmuch as 
the respondent had neither altered the conditions 
of service applicable to the complainant immedia- 
tely before the commencement of proceedings in 
respect of Ref. No, 2/C of 1971 nor had been dis- 
charged or dismissed from service during the pen- 
dency of the reference before this Tribunal, and 

(2) that the complaint was not maintainable being 
without jurisdiction for the reason that it did not 
attract the provisions of section 33(2) (b) of the 
I.D. Act, 1947. 

3. No written rejoinder was filed by the complainant but 
he reiterated the position taken by him in the complaint and 
controverted the stand taken by the respondent. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties the following issues were 
framed: — * 

Preliminary Issue: 

Whether the complaint in question Is not competent 
and Is bad In law, as according to the respondent 
Chief Engineer had nicther been any fllteration In 


: JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


the conditions of service applicable to the complai- 
nant immediately before the commencement of pro- 
ceedings in respect of the industrial dispute in re- 
ference No. 2/C of 1971, nor he had been dis- 
charged nor dismissed from seryicc during the pen- 
dency of the above stated reference, pending be- 
fore this Tribunal? 

On merits 

Whether there had been any contravention of the pro- 
visions of section 33-A of the Industrial Dispu- 
tes Act, 1947, as alleged by the complainant that 
the respondent Chief Engineer had ordered non- 
payment of wages during the suspenstion period 
and stoppage of one increment during the pendency 
of reference No. 2/C of 1971, without first obta- 
ining prior aprovel from the Tribunal? 

5. The respondent has examined Shri Rattan Lai, his 
authorised representative os the only witness, and the com- 
plainant has also examined himself as the solitary witness. 

The complaint itself shows that it is not maintainable as 
there is no allegation that any industrial dispute was pen- 
ding before this Tribunal, when the impugned action was 
taken or that the complainant was in any way concerned 
with any industrial dispute that might be pending at the 
relevant time. 

The complainant, who has appeared as a witness, has 
also not stated anything in this behalf. That being so, the 
question of contravention of provisions of scction33-A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 obviously does not arise. 

This apart, the respondent had proceded to take action 
which had been complained of, after appointing Shri Sat 
Narain as enquiry officer, and there is nothing on the re >■ 
cord to show that the enquiry officer was in any way pre- 
judiced against the complainant or that he did not held the 
enquiry in a fair and impartial manner or contravened the 
principles of natural justice. 

In fact the complainant has admitted that he had been 
allowed to cross-examine the witnesses, and to produce evi- 
dence in defence, and he has not alleged any partisanship on 
the part of the enquiry officer. 

Under these cricumstances, it is held that there Is no sub- 
stance in the complaint, and it is disposed of as such. 

The parties are, however, left to bear their own costs. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRIH] 

S.O. 1726.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 194 7 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complanit under section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Sukh Ram which was rece- 
ived by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No, 2/26 of 1972 
under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Shi i Sukh Ram, Beldar, T. No. 4136-F, C/o, B. S. L. 
Workers Union, Sundemagar. — 1 Complainant. 

Vs. 

Sub Divisional Officer, 

Power Plant Construction Sub Division, 

Power Plant Construction Division, 

B, S. L. Project, Sundemagar. — Respondent, 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai* — for the respondent. 



2198 


[Part II- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


AWARD 

Shi j Sukh Ram has hied this complaint under section 33-A 
of the Industrial Disputes Acl, 1947, who was appointed as 
a beldar with effect from 4-8-71 by the Personnel Officer of 
the respondent Project, which post he claims to have held 
substantive temporary under the certified standing orders. 

According to him he performed his duties satisfactorily 
upto 30-6-72 and ho was removed from service by the res- 
pondent S.D.O., without assiging any reason or giving any 
notice as is provided for under the certified standing orders, 
and some juniors had been allowed to continue in service 
while ignoring provisions of section 25(G). 

2. On a copy of the complaint having been furnished to the 
respondent, he submitted reply in which he has taken the 
following preliminary objections and in respect of merits 
he has inter alia stated that the complainant had been appoin- 
ted as a beldar for a specified period only and he (the com- 
plainant) cannot claim to have held a substantive temporary 
rank in view of provisions of the certified standing orders 
in respect of non -factory staff, and that when his services 
were no longer required they could be dispensed with accord- 
ing to the terms of contract between the parties, and as such 
there was no need to seek prior permission of the Tribunal 
when a reference was pending before this Tribunal. 
Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint was bad in law' as the conditions 

of service of the complainant immediately before 
the commencement of the industrial dispute, refer- 
ence No. 2/C of 1971 were neither altered nor was 
he discharged or dismissed from service during the 
pendency of the said reference, and 

(2) that the instant complaint did not attract the provisions 

of section 33- A or (b) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, and that being so, the complaint is not 
maintainable. 

3. In the rejoinder the complainant has challenged the 
correctness of the preliminary objections and more or less 
reiterated the position taken by him in the complaint and 
controverted the pleas taken by the respondent in the reply 
to the complaint. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties the following issues were 
framed : — • 


months. He has also maintained that one Kartar Chand, 
whose name had been removed from muster rolls, had been 
employed again. 

However, all this does not help him as he had been appoin- 
ted for a specified period, and the respondent Was justified 
in dispensing with his sen ices, when no longer required. 

6. It has been urged on behalf of the complainant that 
since after the expiry of the original period of employment, 
the terms of employment had been extended wherebv he 
(the complainant) had put in three years' continuous service, 
he had to be treated as a substantive temporary employee and 
was entitled to remain in employaient so long as the post 
existed, as per clause (3) sub-clause (c) of t^e certified stand- 
ing orders, and that before his services could have been ter- 
minated, the respondent had to give him 10 days' notice as 
per clause 16 sub-clause (d) and also to pay wages for the 
notice period, and that the S.D.O,, was not competent to 
pass orders of dismissal, 

7. In so far as the second contention of the complainant 
is concerned, it has been stated by the respondent’s authorised 
representative that the order of _ dismissal was not passed by 
the S.D.O,, but by the Executive Engineer, and so far as 
the other contention of the complainant is concerned, it had 
also been maintained on behalf of the respondent that since 
the complainant had been employed for a specified period 
and keeping in view clause 3(1) of the certified standing orders, 
he could not claim to be treated as a temporary substantive 
employee, merely because the term of employment had been 
extended from time (o time after giving him notices in this 
behalf. 

8. In the circumstances explained above, on the period 
of complainant’s employment, having been expired and so 
also the period of extension which had been given to him 
fmm lime to time the respondent was justified in taking the 
action that has been taken complained of Besides it has been 
stated by Shri Chand Parkash, S.D.O., R,W. 1, that the 
complainant a services had been terminated in the same manner 
along with 72 others similarly employed. 

There is thus no substance in the complaint, and it w 
disposed of as such. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L, 42012/1 /73/LRTTl] 


Preliminary issue : 

Whether the complaint does not lie and is incompetent 
as stated by the respondent Sub-Divisional Officer 
that the conditions of service of the complainant 
immediately before the commencement of the indus- 
trial dispute forming subject-matter of reference No. 
2/C of 1971 had neither been altered nor he had 
been discharged from service during the pendency 
of the said reference and whether as such, the com- 
plaint does not attract provisions of section 33-A 
of (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ? 


— ; ; , 1 t ui me industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33-A of the said Act Died by Shri Ram Asra which was re- 
ceived by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 


BEFORE SHRI P.P.R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) 
CANTAB BAR-AT-LAW, 

PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
(CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 


On merits ; 

Whether there has been contravention of the provisions 
of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
for the reason as alleged by the complainant that 
he had been removed from service during the pen- 
dency of reference No. 2/C of 1971, without per- 
mission having been obtained from the Tribunal? 

5. Shri Sukh Ram has examined himself as also Shri 
Mohinder Singh as a witness, who has appeared in order to 
support the complaint, and Shri Chand Parkash, S.D.O. of 
the respondent Project, has appeared as a witness. 

It is not denied by the complainant that he had been emp- 
loyed for a specified period, but he has maintained that 
he was not aware of any period of employment in the letter 
issued to him, and that ho was ignorant regarding respondent 
having displayed a notice on the notice board and a list of 
workmen whose services had been terminated along with him, 
or that after the expiry of three months of his employment, 
the respondent had pasted a notice on the notice board giving 
out that his services had been extended for a period of three 


Complaint No. 2/35 of 1972 

under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Ram Asra, Welder, Token No. 564-C, 

Communication Division, Nangal Township, 

Complainant, 

Vs. 

The Chief Engineer, B, S. L. Project, Sundemugar, 

Respondent. 

Appearances! 

Shri Dhani Ranv — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent, 

AWARD 

This is a complaint by Shri Ram Asra, welder, under sec- 
tion 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act t 1947 alleging that 
there has been contravention of the provisions of section 33, 
inasmuch as he had beer! unjustifiably transferred from 
Stepper to Nangal which Involved a loss of house rent @ 
10% and non-payment of special allowance @ 15% of the 



2199 


Sec. 3 ( ii) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


basic pay and dearness pay, and non-realisation of Emp- 
loyees Provident Fund concession, which was not applicable 
to employees posted at Nangal, that he had been victimised 
as he was a member and official of the Penstock Division, 
Shipper thin, and as General Secretary of the B.S.L. Maz- 
door Ekta Union, had been declared as a protected work- 
man vide letter sent to the Chief Engineer, dated 26-4-1972, 
and that the transfer involved a loss of Rs. 70 per month. 

2. In the reply to the complaint two preliminary objec- 
tions have been taken, and on merits it has been stated that 
since there has been no charge in the conditions of service 
the question of violation of Ihe provisions of section 33-A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act ? 1947 did not arise, and that 
the complaint was without jurisdiction, inasmuch as the 
com pi aim l was transferred in public interest from Shipper 
to Communication Division, Nangal like other workcharged 
employees from one Division to another on the Project, and 
that no other wt i kcharged employee was in receipt of any 
nllowannces at Nangal. 

Tt has been denied that the complainant was a protected 
workman, and added that even it be so, the transfer from 
Shipper to Nangal had nothing to do with his status as 
General Secretary of the B.S.L. Mazdoor Ekta Union. 

3. In the rejoinder, the complainant controverted the pleas 
taken by the respondent in his reply and has generally reiter- 
ated the stand taken by him in trie complaint. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
were framed: — 

Preliminary issue 


S.O. 1728.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Sbri Balbir Singh which was 
received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P.P.R. SAWHNY, B A. (HONS.) 
CANTAB BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/41 of 1972 
under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Balbir Singh, bcldnr, Token No. 

817-C, C/o B.S.L. Workers Union, 

Sundcmagar. Complainant, 

Vs, 

Executive Engineer, Ppnstock Division, 

B.S.L. Project, Sundemagar Township (H.P.) 

Respondent. 

APPEARANCES: 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar— for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai— for the respondent, 

AWARD 


Whether this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to enleitain 
the complaint, inasmuch as the complainant is not to 
have been discharged or dismissed lrom service and 
conditions of his service had not been in any 
manner charged, he having been merely transferred 
from Penstock Division, Slapper to Communication 
Division, B.S.L, Nangal in public interest? 

On merits 

Whether there had been any contravention of the pro- 
visions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act as alleged by the complainant that he had 
been transferred from Penstock Division to Nangal 
Communication Division during the pendency of 
Ref. 2/C of 1971 without first obtaining prior ap- 
proval from the Tribunal? 

5, The complainant has produced Shri Dhani Ram his 
authorised representative, as a witness, and the respondent has 
examined his authorised representative, Shri Rattan Lai. 

Shri Dhani Ram has more or less reiterated the position 
taken by the complainant in the complaint and refuted all 
that had. been stated in the reply to the complaint. 

The sole question that arises for consideration is whether 
the respondent authorities were justified in ordering trans- 
fer of Shri Ram Asra, without giving any notice thereby 
causing to him a loss of Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 per month, to 
which he was entitled by way of allowances. 

6. No doubt, Shri Ram Asra claims to be the General Sec- 
retary of the B.S.L. Project, Mazdoor , Ekta Union and mem- 
ber of the works committee but this alone does not go to 
show that the respondent was in any way biased against him 
on that account. Obviously mere transfer from one Division 
to another does not amount to any change in service condi- 
tions, and that being so, the question of violation of the 
provisions of section 33-A of the I.D. Act, 1947 docs not 
arise, and it is held that there is no substance in the comp- 
laint. 

Award is given accordingly, and the parties are left to 
bear their own costs. 

[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRIII1 
P. P. R. SAWHNEY, Presiding Officer. 


Shri Balbir Singh, complainant, has filed this ocmplaint 
under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and has alleged that while he was holding post of substan- 
tive temporary nature, the respondent Executive Engineer 
terminated his services with effect from 1-10-1972 In contra- 
vention of provisions of the certified standing orders which 
w r ere applicable to them, and that this had been done with- 
out taking prior permission of the Tribunal before whom 
reference No. 2/C of 1971 was pending, and that there has 
been contravention of the provisions of section 33-A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. The respondent raised a prelim inary objection in the 
reply to the complaint that the complaint was not maintain- 
able as Shri Balbir Singh had been employed for a specified 
period and after which his service automatically stood ter- 
minated without sci vice of any notice. 

On merits, it has been admitted that the services of Shri 
Balbir Singh had been terminated after the expiry of the 
specified period, for which he had been employed, and added 
that no prior permission of this Tribunal or notice etc. was 
required and that there had been no contravention of the 
provisos of the certified standing orders. 

3. No written rejoinder was put in, but the authorised 
represent a live of the complainant verbally reiterated the 
picas taken by the complainant in the complaint, and refuted 
the stand taken by the respondent in his reply to he comp- 
laint. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
were framed: — 

Preliminary issue 

Whether the complaint is not maintainable, as accord- 
ing to the respondent, Executive Engineer, the comp- 
lainant had been engaged for a specified period after 
which his services stood terminated without serv- 
ing any notice? 


31 GI/73— 10 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAJSTHA 26, 1895 


[Part II- 


On merits 

Whether there has been any contravention of the pro- 
visions of section 3 3- A of thf Industrial Dilute* 
Act, 1947, as alleged by the complainant in his optn- 
laint that hr had been removed from service by the 
respondent Executive Engineer from service by the 
respondent Executive Engineer without o bteidiy 
permission from tnia Tribunal when reference No. 
2/c of 1971 was pending before this 

5. Shri Balbir Singh, complainant , b has examined 'himself 
as the only witness, and the complaint was adjourned to 
28-12-1972 for the evidence of the respondent* However, 
after his statement had been recorded, the authorised rep- 
resentative of the parties gave out that the matter in (Jjepute 
had been settled ou of court. Accordingly their stotchients 
were recorded. 

Shri Rattan Lai, the authorised representative of the res- 
pondent Executive ’Engineer, as stated that a decision had 
been taken while taking back Shrj Balbir Singh in service 
to allow him continuity of service, but that he would not 
be allowed payment of wages for the period that he remain- 
ed unemployed, 

Shri Mohinder Singh, the authorised representative of the 
complainant, has stated that he had heard the statement made 
by Shri Rattan Lai, the authorised representative of the 
respondent, and as the matter in dispute had been settled 
amicably out of court, the complainant did not wish to pursue 
the complainant, and that it may be disposed of as not having 
been pressed and withdrawn. 

6. Having regard to the statements made by the authorised 
representatives of the parties, reproduced above, the comp- 
laint is disposed of as not having been pressed and withdrawn. 


tmfroadent tted his reply to the complaint and 
Allowing preliminary objections, and on merits 
contentions of the complainant workman. 

Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint is bad in law, inasmuch as the 
complainant had neither been discharged nor dismis- 
sed from service and also because the conditions 
of service applicable to him immediately before the 
commencement of proceeding before the Tribunal 
in respect of reference No. 2/C of 1971, had not 
been altered. 

(2) That the complainant had been awarded the punish- 
ment in question for misconduct of negligence of 
duty as per provisions of the Certified Standing 
Orders in respect of non-Factory staff, and in doing 
so, the respondent had not infringed the provisions 
of section 33(2) (q) or (b) or section 33(3) of the 
I.D. Act, 1947. 

3. The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing 
of rejoinder, but instead of putting in rejoinder, Shri Mohin- 
der Singh, the authorised representative of the complainant, 
made a statement that the complainant did not wish to 
pursue the complaint as they now discovered that the In- 
dustrial Tribunal was not the appropriate authority for 
taking action in the matter. 


P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LR11IJ 

3 . 0 . 1729 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947(14 of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby published the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under 
Section 33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Randhir Singh 
which was received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 


4. Having regard to the statement of Shri Mohinder Singh, 
the authorised representative of the complainant, and repro- 
duced above, the complaint is disposed of as not having 
been pursued and withdrawn. 

No order as to costs, 

P, P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 


BEFORE SHRI P.P.R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) 

CANTAB BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, 
CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 
CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/28 of 1972 
under section 3 3- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Shri Randhir Singh, Driver, Token No, 

54-1, Aggregate Production Sub- 

Division, B.S.L, Project Sundernagar Complainant. 

Vs. 

Sub Divisional Officer, Aggregate Pro- 
duction Sub-Division No. 2, B. S,L. 

Project, Sundernagar Respondent. 

APPEARANCES: 

Shri Mohinder Singh Togar — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai— for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Randhir Singh, Drivci, Token No. 54, filed this comp- 
laint under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947* 
in which it has been intet alia stated that the respondent Sub- 
Divisional Officer had inflicted a punishment of two days’ 
suspension on him without securing prior permission from 
this Tribunal, wheu lcference No, 2/C of 1971 was pending 
and had thereby contravened provisions of section 33 (2) (b) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


[No. L. 420 12/1/73 /LR1 II] 


S.O, 1730. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Jit Singh which was re* 
ceived by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 


BEFORE SHRI P.P.R. SAWHNY, B.A, (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFF1CFR, CENTRAL 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No, 2/38 of 1972 


under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 


Shri Jit Singh, Token No. 333-C, 

Junior fitter, C/o B.S.L. Workers 
Union, Sundernagar. 

Vs. 


Complainant 


Executive Engineer* B.S.L. Penstock 

Division, Sundernagar. Respondent, 


APPEARANCES: 

Shri Mohinder Singh— for the complainant. 
Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent, 



2201 


Sec, 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYA1STHA 26, 1895 


AWARD 

ShrJ Jit Singh, Token No. 333 -C, a junior fitter in Stric- 
ture Shop Division, Penstock Division, has filed this comp- 
laint under section 3 3- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 sis according to him, his name had been removed from 
service without obtaining prior permission of this Tribunal, 
at a time when a dispute forming subject matter of reference 
No. 2/C of 1971 was pending, in which he was an interested 
party. 

In this connection he hag also slated that he had been 
arrested on 10-9-1972, under sections 107/151 Cr. P,C. by 
the police and that he had requested the police authorities 
to inform his officers and they had told him that informa- 
tion regarding his arrest had been conveyed to his officers, 
that he remained in the custody of the police up to 29-9-1972, 
and that when he reported tor duty, he was handed over 
letter No. 79-86/7E/FD, dated 22-9-1972, intimating that 
his service had been terminated. 

2. The respondent Executive Engineer has raised the fol- 
lowing preliminary objections, and on merits he has denied 
that he had been informed at any time by the complainant 
about his arrest under sections 105/151 Cr, P.C, and that 
since Shri Jit Singh, complainant, had been absent from 
duty l'or more than 10 days, as provided for under clause 
15 of the certified standing orders in respect of Factory 
staff, his name had been removed from the rolls of the 
establishment for having voluntarily resigned from the Pro- 
ject’s service. 

In this behalf, it has also been stated that when the 
complainant came to resume duty on 3-10-1972, he did not 
explain properly about his absence or state whether he had 
been bailed out or not, that it was not possible to wait for 
an indefinite period for the complainant to report for duly, 
and that under these circumstances, there was no necessity 
to seek prior permission from the Tribunal, inasmuch as the 
complainant had not been discharged or dismissed from 
service. 

Preliminary objections: 

That the complaint was not maintainable for the reason 
that the complainant had neither been discharged nor 
dismissed from service, and also because the con- 
ditions of service applicable to him before the pen- 
dency of reference No. 2/C of 1971, had not been 
changed and his name had been removed from 
the rolls, he having voluntarily resigned from sei- 
vice. 

3. No written rejoinder was put in by the complainant 
but he verbally reiterated the position taken by him in his 
complaint, and controverted the pleas that were taken by the 
respondent in his reply to the complaint. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issues 
framed: — 

Preliminary issue: 

Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable as 
according to the respondent, the complainant had 
neither been discharged nor dismissed from service 
and on that account his name was removed from 
the rolls, and also for the reason that the condilioas 
of service applicable to him before the pendency 
of reference No. 2/C of 1971 had not been 
changed? 

On merits 

Whether there had been any contravention of the pro- 
visions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as alleged by the complainant? 

5. The complainant has examined himself as his only 
witness and the respondent have examined Shri Roshan Lat 
Vij, S.D.O. B.S.L. Project, Sundernagar, as their solitary 
witness. 

From the statement made by Shri Jit Singh it appears that 
after he was arrested on 10-9-1972 under sections 107/151 
Cr. P.C., he remained in the custody of the police upto 29th 
September,, 1972, and that he requested the police authori- 
ties to inform his employers and they told him that they 
would do so. 


This contention finds support from leave application, Ext. 
k/1, dated 23rd September, 1972, which is admitted to have 
been received by Shri Roshan Lai, R.W, l f a day subsequent 
to the passing of the orders, Ext. C/1, in regard to treating 
the case of Shri Jit Singh as that of voluntary resignation 
under the certiiied standing orders. 

Apart irom this, the pica of Shri Jit Singh also finds sup- 
port from Ext. C/2, a certificate issued by the Asstt. Super- 
intendent, Jail that Shri Jit Singh bad put in an application 
to the respondent S.D.O. vide his despatch No. 934 dated 
23-9-1972. 

It is also to be found from the statement of Shri Roshan 
Lai Vij S.D.O. R.W. 1 that when the complainant came to 
report for duty, he told him that he was arrested by the 
police, and that for that reason he could not report for duly 
or apply for leave. 

Thus the absence of Shri Jit Singh, complainant, from duty 
for more than 10 days was not wilful or without sufficient 
cause, and a person of his intelligence appears to have taken 
all possible steps to inform his employers the circumstances 
which prevented him from reporting for duty and he had 
in fact explained the circumstances at the earliest opportu- 
nity, when he reported for duty, but was not allowed to 
join duly. 

It is unfortunate that the police authorities for reasons 
best known to them, did not inform the employers of the 
complainant about his having been arrested by them, but 
since the contention of the complainant that he remained 
in police custody up to 29-10-1972, has not been challenged 
by the respondent Executive Engineer. Shri Jit Singh, comp- 
lainant, could not have possibly reported for duty till such 
time as he was released by the police. 

With this background the respondent Executive Engineer 
docs not appear to be justified in passing orders, Ext. C/1, 
treating the case of Shri Jit Singh as that of voluntary 
resignation, as these orders in fact tantamount to termina- 
tion of services and since at that time reference No, 2/C 
of 1971 was pending in which the complainant was an in- 
terested party, it was incumbant upon the respondent to have 
secured prior permission which they have not done. 

It may also be mentioned that the orders. Ext. C/1, were 
not sent to the complainant, Shri Jit Singh, at his home 
address, though according to Shri Roshan Lai, R.W- _ 1, 
home addresses of employees are to be found in their service 
books, and it was not necessary to send it at the local 
address of Shri Jit Singh, and all that has been stated in 
this behalf is that a man was sent to. find out if Shri Jit 
Singh was at his local address, and it was learnt that he was 
not there. 

It has been urged on behalf of the respondent that in 
case a workman does noi apply for leave on account of de- 
tention or otherwise, and remains absent for more than 10 
days, such a workman loses lien on the post and the manage- 
ment acquires a righ to strike off his name from their 
register. 

They have relied upon in this behalf upon Supreme Court 
Labour Judgment— page 1023, and Misconduct in Employ- 
ment — page 602. Neither of these cases arc applicable to the 
facts ot the instant complaint, as they relate to private in- 
dustry cases. 

There is of course no dispute that under clause 14 of the 
certified standing orders, services of a workman arc deemed 
to have been automatically terminated, if he does not report 
for duty and remains absent for more than 10 days, but such 
absence from duty if be not voluntary but beyond Ins 
control obviously his case cannot be considered to be that 
of voluntary resignation. Neither of these citations under 
such circumstances are of any benefit to the respondent. 

The complainant has relied upon 1968-FJ.R,— Vol. 34— 
page 42 at 46, wherein it has been observed as under but this 
too is not of any assistance; — 

"But, in my opinion, the words "fails to resume duty” 

apply to a railway servant who by a voluntary and 
deliberate act or omission stays away from duty and 



2202 


[Part It 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYATSTHA 26, 1895 


fails to report, and not to one who was prevented 
by a cause beyond his control to resume duty ” 

In view of the position explained above, it is held that 
there has been contravention of the provisions of section 33- A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and that there was no 
justification for terminating the services of the complainant, 
Shri Jit Singh. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L, 42012/1 /73/LR HI] 

N.O. 1731. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33-A of the said Act filed by Shri Jit Singh which was receiv- 
ed by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
fJAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAN (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No, 2/39 of 1972 

Under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Jit Singh, T. No. 436-C, Pipe fitter, C/o B.S.L. 
Workers Union, Sunder nagar, .... Complainant 

Vs. 


Executive Engineer. B.S.L. Penstock Division, Sunder- 
nagar, - * - - Respondent. 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

This is a complaint by Shri Jit Singh, Token No.: 436-C, 
who was working as a pipe fitter in Penstock Division, 
Sundemagar. He has stated therein that he was arrested 
under sections 107/151 Cr. P.C., and that ho was kept in 
lock-up upto 29-9-72, and that he had requested the SH.O, 
to inform his officers about his arrest, and that he had also 
handed over his leave application, and was told that neces- 
sary information had been given to his employers. 

He has further stated in the complaint, that on 15-9-72 
he sent his leave application through Shri Garib Dass work- 
man, who was working with him, and also sent other appli- 
cations on 20-9-72 and 23-9-72 through Mandi Police au- 
thorities, 

that when he was released from police custody he went 
to report for duty but was not allowed to join and was in- 
stead handed over letter No. 71-78 /7-E/FD, dated 22-9-72 
and intimated this his services had been terminated with 
effect from 22-9-72, and 

that this action of the respondent was in contravention 
of the provisions of section 33(2)(b) us no prior permission 
had been taken as reference No. 2/C of 1971 was pending, 
in which he was an interested party, 

2. In the reply put in by the respondent to the complaint, 
the following preliminary objections were taken, and in res- 
pect of merits, it has been stated that the complainant had 
not informed him about his arrest by the police under sec- 
tions 107/151 Cr. P.C., and that since the complainant re- 
mained absent from duty, his name had been removed from 
the rolls, his case having been treated as that of voluntary 
resignation under the certified standing orders. 


It has also been stated that they had not received any 
leave application, except one, dated 25-9-72, through Shri 
Garib Das or any one else, and added that it was not possi- 
ble for them to wait for the complainant indefinitely, and 
that under these circumstances there was no necessity for 
taking prior permission of the Tribunal before whom refer- 
ence No. 2/C of 1971 was pending, as the case of the com- 
plainant was not that of discharge or dismissal from service. 


Preliminary objections : 

That the complaint was not maintainable under scluvu 
33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as the complainant 
had neither been discharged nor dismissed from service, and 
also for the reason that the conditions of service applicable 
to him before the pendency of reference No. 2/c of 1971. 
had not been changed and nis name had becu removed from 
the rolls, he having voluntarily resigned from service. 

No written rejoinder was put in by the complainant, but 
ho verbally reiterated the position taken by him in the com- 
plaint and contravened the stand taken by the respondent in 
his reply to the complaint. 

3. On pleadings of tbo parties, the following issues were 
framed: — 

Preliminary issue : 

Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable as ac- 
cording to the respondent, the complainant had neither been 
discharged nor dismissed from service, in as much as the 
complainant is said to have voluntarily resigned from service 
and on that account his name was removed from rolls, 
and also for the reason that the conditions of service appli- 
cable to him before the pendency of reference No. 2/C of 
1971 had not been changed? 

On merits 

Whether there had been any contravention of the provi- 
sions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
as alleged by the complainant ? 

4. Shri Jit Singh, complainant, has examined himself as his 
only witness. The respondent has examined Shri Roshan Lai 
Vij, S.D.O., B.S.L, Project, Sundemagar, as his solitary wit- 
ness. 

From the statement of Shri Jit Singh it transpires that his 
services had been terminated on 22-9-72, when he was in 
police custody, having been arrested under sections 107/151 
Cr. P.C., 

that ho was released on bail after 18 days as earlier to 
that no one came forward to furnish surety for him, and that 
when he was actually released on bail and he reported for 
duty, he was not allowed to join duty and his services had 
been terminated vide order, Ext. C/2. 

He has also stated that he had requested the S.H.O. to 
inform his employers as he was a Government employees, 
and he had been told that they would send necessary intima- 
tion, which was in fact incumbant upon him to do, and that 
he had also submitted an application for leave while he was 
in jail vide C/1 requesting, the Superintendent Jail to inform 
his employers about his arrest, and 

that he had submitted two other leave applications to the 

S.D.O., Penstock Division, and as per statement made by 
Shri Roshan Lm Vij, one of the applications of Shri Jit Singh, 
dated 20-9-72, was received in his office on 25-9-72. 

The complainant has also stated that he had told the S.D.O. 
concerned after he was released on bail, about his arrest 
through applications, and that being in the lock-up he could 
not report for duty earlier. 

Shri Roshan Lai Vij, S.D.O., R.W. 1, has admitted that 
leave application, dated 20th September, 1972, was received 
on 25-9^72, and added that it was not necessary to send a 
copy of orders, Ext* C/2, to Shri Jit Singh, complainant, 
even though home address must be in his service book, for 
the reason that his case had been treated as that of volun- 
tary resignation. 

5. It is unfortunate that the police authorities for reasons 
best known to them, did not inform the employers of the 
complainant about complainant having been arrested by them, 
but since the contention of the complainant that he remained 
in police custody upto 29-9-72, has not been challenged by the 
respondent, Executive Engineer. Shri Jit Sinch, complainant 
could not obviously have reported for duty till such time, as 
he was released by the police. 

With this back ground the respondent Executive Engineer 
does not seem to me to be instified in passing orders, Ext. 
C/2 treating the case of Shri Tit Singh as that of voluntary 
resignation, as these orders in fact tent amount to termination 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JVAISTHA 26, 1895 2203 


of services and since at that time reference No. 2/C of 1971 
was pending, in which the complainant was an interested 
party, it was incumbant upon the respondent to have secured 
prior permission, which they have not done. 

It has been urged on behalf of the respondent that in case 
a workman does not apply for leave on account of detention 
or otherwise, and remains absent for more than 10 days, such 
a workmen loses lien on the post and the management ac- 
quires a right to strike off his name from their register. 

They have relied upon, in this behalf, upon Supreme 
Court Labour Judgments- — pa^e 1023, and Misconduct in 
Employment — page 602. Neither of these cases are appli- 
cable ^ to the facts of the instant complaint and they relate 
to private industry cases. 

There is of course no dispute that under clause 14 of the 
certified standing orders, services of a workman arc deemed 
to have been automatically terminated if he does not report 
for duty and remains absent for more than 10 days, but such 
absence from duty if be not voluntary but be beyond his 
control, obviously his case cannot be considered to bo that 
of a voluntary resignation. Neither of these citations under 
such circumstances are of any avail to the respondent. 

The complainant has relied upon 1968-F.J.R. Volume 34, 
page 42 at 46, where it has been observed as under, blit this 
too is of no assistance : — 

“But, in my opinion, the words Tails to resume duty' 
apply to a railway servant who by a voluntary and 
deliberate act or omission stays away from duty 
and fails to report, and not to one who was pre- 
vented by a cause beyond his control to resume duty." 

In view of the position explained above, it is held that there 
has been contravention of the provisions of section 3 3- A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and that there was no 
justification for terminating the services of the complainant, 
Shri Jit Singh. 

F. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRITI] 

S.O. 1732*— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33-A of the said Act filed by Shri Dhani Ram which was 
received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 

BEFORE SHRI P. P, R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 

BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL), CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/36 of 1972 

Under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Shri Dhani Ram, Token No; 2890-F, Gate Keeper, 
President, Mazdoor Ekta Union C/o 1371, Sunder - 
nagar, District Mandi . , . .Complainant. 

Vs. 

The Chief Engineer, B.S.L. Project, Sundcrnagar, Dis- 
trict Mandi, Himachal Pradesh ....Respondent. 

Appearances ; 

Shri Dhani Ram — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Dhani Ram has filed this complaint under section 
33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, alleging that there 
had been contravention of the provisions of section 33-A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, inasmuch as the respondent 
had ordered that his services were no longer required after 
31-7-72 during the pendency of the demands, and that the 
respondent was not justified in terminating his services with- 
out securing prior permission from this Tribunal. 

2. Tn the reply filed by the respondent Chief Engineer 
certain preliminary objections had been raised, and on merits 
it was stated that since the complainant was appointed for 


a specified period, and on conclusion of the contractual period 
his services had been justifiably dispensed with as no longer 
required and that there was no contravention of the provi- 
sions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and that the complaint was misconceived. 

3. In the rejoinder, the complainant controverted the pleas 
taken by the respondent in the reply and generally reiterated 
the stand taken by him in the complaint. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issue was 
framed: — - 

“Whether there had been any contravention of the provi- 
sions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, as alleged by the complainant in his com- 
plaint that his services had been terminated dining 
the pendency of reference No. 2/c, without first 
obtaining approval from the Tribunal?” 

5. The complainant did not appear himself, but instead his 
authorised representative has appeared as a witness on his 
behalf, and Shri Rattan Lai has appeared as a witness on be- 
half of the respondent Chief Engineer, 

According to Shri Dhani Ram, the complainant was work- 
ing as a gate keeper in the Vigilance and Security Staff Divi- 
sion when his services had been terminated on the specified 
dated i.e. the date up to which he was employed, and that 
some other employees appointed in similar circumstances, had 
been allowed to continue in service, and that some new hands 
had also been employed subsequently. However, he has ad- 
mitted that no gate-keeper had been employed by the res- 
pondent after the complainant’s services had been terminated. 

The fact that Shri Dhani Ram had been appointed for a 
specified period, has not been denied by him and it is also 
borne out from letter of appointment, Ext. R/l. As such 
there is nothing objectionable for the respondent in dispens- 
ing with the services of the complainant after expiry of con- 
tractual period, and Shri Dhani Dam is not entitled to make 
a grouse of it. In any case there is no contravention of sec- 
tion 33-A of the Industrial Dispute* Act, 1947 with the given 
facts. 

Apart from this, it has also been admitted by the repre- 
sentative of the complainant that after his services had been 
terminated, no one had been employed as a gate keeper 
which coes to show that gate keepers were no longer need- 
ed. 

The complaint is accoidingly disposed of as being without 
any substance. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No, L, 42012/1 /73/LRHI] 

S.O. 1733. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33-A of the said Act filed by Shri Khushul Chand which was 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (Hons.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFCER, CENTRAL 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH. 

Chandigarh. 

Complaint No* 2/33 of 1972 

Under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Shri Khushal Chand, chowkidar. T, No. 626-A.D,, C/o 
B.SL. Workers Union, Sundernogar 

„ . .Complainant, 

Vs. 

Executive Engineer, Ware House Division, B.S.L, Pro- 
ject, Sundcrnagar Township . . Respondent. 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh— for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 



2204 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYA1STHA 26, 1895 [Part 11^ 


AWARD 

Shri Khushal Chand, chowkidar, has filed this complaint 
alleging contravention of the provisions of section 33-A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by the respondent, inas- 
much us punishment ot pecuniary loss had been inflicted upon 
him which according to him was not within the competence 
of the Divisional Officer, Store Sub-Division, Sundernagar, 
who could only order a punishment of four days’ suspension 
to a workman, and also for the reason that the impugned 
action had been taken without securing prior permission from 
this Tribunal before whom reference No. 2/C of 1971 was 
pending. 

2. The respondent filed reply to the complaint raising the 
following preliminary objections, and on merits the respon- 
dent refuted the contentions of the complainant workman. 

Preliminary objection: 

(1) That the instant complaint was bad in law, inasmuch 

as the conditions of service of the complainant im- 
mediately before the commencement or the Indus- 
trial dispute in reference No. 2/C of 1971, were not 
altered nor was he discharged/dismissed from ser- 
vice during the pendency of the Industrial dispute 
before this Tribunal. 

(2) That the instant complaint was not maintainable tor 

the reason that it did not attract the provisions of 
section 33(a) or (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

3. The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing of 
rejoinder, but instead of putting in a rejoinder, Shri Mohin- 
der Singn, the authorised representative of the complainant, 
made a statement that the complainant did not wish to pursue 
the complainant as he had now found out that the Indus- 
trial Tribunal was not the appropriate authority to take ac- 
tion in the matter. 

4. Keeping in view the statement made by Shri Mohindet 
Singh, the authorised representative of the complainant, . as 
reproduced above, the complaint is disposed of as not having 
been pursued and withdrawn. 

The parties are left to bear their own costs. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRIIT] 

S.O. 1734, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Ar\ J947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 33-A 
of the said Act filed by Shi i Kalla Ram which was received 
by the Cential Government on 28th May, 1973. 


BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICFR, CENTRAL INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/19 of 1972 

Under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shri Kalia Ram, Chowkidar, T. No. 529-AD, 

Ware House Division, B.S.L, Project, 

Sundarnagar * ■ ■ Complainant. 

Vs. 

Executive Engineer, Ware House Division, 

B. S. L, Project, Sundarnagar . . . Respondent 

Appearances : 

Shii Mohindcr Singh— for the complainant, 

Shi i Rattan Lul — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Kalia Ram, Chowkidar, has filed this complaint and 
has maintained therein that the Sub-Divisional Officer, Ware 
House Sub-Division, Baggi, had unjustifiably punished him 
for alleged gross-misconduct which was beyond his compe- 
tency, inasmuch as he could award punishment of upto 
four days' suspension, and that the right of recovery as a 
measure of punishment was only within the competency of 


the appointing authority, i.e. Executive Engineer, as per cer- 
tified standing orders for non-factory staff. 

According to him, penality of Rs. 1714.90 Palse had been 
imposed upon him without considering the facts and cirmus- 
tances of the case, as had been stated in the reply to the 
show-cause notice and it was not a theft case but was a 
matter of pilfeiage, which might have been done by the 
S.O. or by some body else, and 

that the enquiry had been held against principles of natural 
justice as he (complainant) had not been provided with oppor- 
tunity to be represented through the union, and 

that at the time when the respondent took the impugned 
action, a dispute vide leference No. 2/C of 1971, was pending 
before this Tribunal and the respondent had not secured 
prior permission from the Tribunal to impose penalty, us 
required under section 33(2)(b), of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

2. On a copy of the complaint having been furnished to 
the respondent, he pul in written statement, in which the 
following preliminary objections were raised, and on merits 
he refuted vaiious assertions that had been made by the 
complainant in his complaint and gave justification for taking 
the impugned action. 

It has also been added therein that there were no neces- 
sity for taking permission from the Tiibunal before taking 
the impugned action as the complaint was not connected with 
the dispute forming subject matter of reference No, 2/C 
of 1971. 

that the deduction of wages was ordered in connection with 
loss to the Government property, as is piovidcd for under 
section 7 ot the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, and 

that the complainant had not exhusted the remedy available 
to him under the certified standing orders before approaching 
this Tribunal. 

Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint is not maintainable as the deduc- 

tion of wages fiom the wages of the complainant 
weic ordcicd strictly in accordance with the pro- 
visions of the Payment oi Wages Act, 1936, after 
giving an opportunity of showing cause against the 
deduction and this being so, the provisions of sec- 
tion 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 are not 
attracted. 

(2) That the complainant was not punished for any 

misconduct connected with the dispute and for that 
reason the complaint in question did not lie, 

(3) That the complainant had not exhausted the remedies 

available to him under the relevant certified standing 
orders before coming to the Industrial Tribunal. 

3. No written rejoinder was put in by the complainant 
workman, but he verbally refuted the preliminary objections 
that had been taken in the reply by the respondent, as well 
as the contentions of the respondent in respect of merits. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, following issues were 
lramed : — 

Preliminary Issues ; 

(1) Whether the instant complaint is not maintainable 
as according to the respondent, Executive Engineer 
the complainant caused a loss to the property of the 
employer directly attributable to his neglect, and 
deduction of wages had been ordered in accordance 
with the piovisions of the Payment of Wages Act, 
1936 after providing an opportunity to the com- 
plainant to show cause, and there being no contra- 
vention of the provisions of section 33 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, inasmuch as the complainant 
was not punished for any misconduct connected with 
the dispute? 

(2) Whether the instant complaint does not lie in view 

of Ihe fact as stated by the respondent Executive 
Engineer that the complainant had not exhausted 



2205 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


remedies that were available to him under the 
relevant certified standing orders before approaching 
the Tribunal ? 

On merits : 

(3) Whether the respondent Executive Engineer was justi- 
fied m taking the impugned action against the 
complainant workman during the pendency of refer- 
ence No, 2/C of 1971 before this Tribunal by 
imposing a penalty of Rs. 1714.90 Paisc for mis- 
conduct, thereby contravening the provisions of sec- 
tion 3 3- A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ? 

5. Since the parties did not wish to lead any evidence in 
respect of the preliminary issues, arguments of their autho- 
rised representatives were heard. 

6. The main ingradients of Section 33 are : — 

(a) that there should be pendency of n dispute ; 

(b) that the workman should be an affected workman, 

he, connected with the dispute ; 

(c) that the action objected to must be in connection with 

change in service conditions prejudicial to the work- 
man ; and 

(d) that the matter should be connected with the dispute 

in respect of which reference is pendirig, 

The contention ot the respondent Executive Engineer is that 
the action that had been taken against Shri Kali a Ram under 
clause 17(a)(iii) of the certified standing orders for non-factory 
staff, read with section 10 of the Payment of Wages Act, 
1936, and that the proper forum for seeking remedy by the 
complainant was either to approach the Labour Court in 
respect of Wrongful deduction of wages or the Commissioner 
appointed under section 15 of the Payment of Wages Act, 
and that the action which had been taken by the respondent 
was covered by the certified standing orders, wherein remedy 
had been provided which had not been availed of by the 
complainant workman. 

It is not denied by the parties that the dispute that had 
been referred for adjudication to this Tribunal in the main 
reference No. 2/C of 1971, relates to four demands, viz: 

(1) Revision of pay scales of work-charged employees. 

(2) Regularisation of services of work-charged employees. 

(3) Accident and retrenchment compensation to employees 

drawing more than Rs. 500 per month. 

(4) Introduction of a gratuity scheme. 

7. With this back ground, it is to be determined whether 
the impugned action taken by the respondent Executive Engi- 
neer is in any way connected with the above stated items of 
dispute forming subject matter of reference No. 2/C of 1971, 
that is pending before this Tribunal. 

The punishment inflicted upon the complainant relates to 
theft ol Government property, and it was on that account 
that the recovery of Rs. 1714,90 Paise had been ordered to be 
made from his wages after giving him a show cause notice 
and after holding an enquiry. 

Obviously theft of Government money is In no way con- 
nected with the items of dispute in reference No. 2/C of 
1971. 

The authorised representaive of the workman has main- 
tained that the complainant was entitled to seek redressal 
of his grievance from this Tribunal as per provisions of 
section 33-A. However, there appears no justification for 
the complainant to take shelter under this section in view 
of proviso to section 33(2)(b), which reads as under : — 

"Provided that no such workman shall be discharged 
from service, unless he had been paid one month's 
wages and an application has been made by the 
employer to the Authority before which the pro- 
ceedings are pending, for approval of the action 
taken by the employer.* 1 

Section 33(2)(b) reads : — 

“For any misconduct, not connected with the dispute, 
discharge or punish, whether by dismissal or other- 
wise, the workman’ — 

Since misconduct in this case relating to theft of Govern- 
ment property committed by the complainant, is not con- 
nected with any of the matters of the dispute forming subject 


matter of reference No. 2/C of 1971, and the complainant 
has not been discharged or dismissed, it is held that this 
Tribunal is not the proper forum and that the remedy of 
seeking redress of his grievances is under the Payment of 
wages Act, 1936 and the complaint is not maintainable, 

Award is given accordingly, 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 

[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LR11IJ 

S.O. 1735.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 33 A 
of the said Act filed by Shri Churu Ram which was received 
by the Central Government on 28th May. 1973 

BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/27 of 1972 

under section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Shri Ghuru Ram, Chowkidar, T. No. 573-A.D., 

C/o B.S.L. Workers Union, Sundernagar. Complainant. 

V«‘ 

Executive Engineer, Ware House Division, 

B.S.L. Project, Sundernagar. Respondent. 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai— for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Churu Ram has filed this complaint alleging contra- 
vention of the provisions of section 33-A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 by the respondent Executive Engineer, 
Ware House Division, B.S.L. Project, Sundernagar as accord- 
ing to him, as punishment of pecuniary loss had been inflicted 
upon him without securing prior permission from this Tri- 
bunal before whom reference No, 2/C of 1971 was pending. 

2. The respondent filed reply to the complaint raising the 
following preliminary objections, and on merits the res- 
pondent refuted the contentions of the complainant workman. 

Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint is bad in law inasmuch as the 

conditions of service of the complainant were neither 
altered nor he was discharged /dismissed during the 
endency of the industrial dispute before this Tri- 
ll nal. 

(2) That the instant complaint did not attract the pro- 

visions of section 33-A or 33(b) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, and for that reason also the 
complaint is not maintainable. 

3. The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing 
of rejoineder, but instead of putting in rejoinder, Shri Mohin- 
der Singh, the authorised representatives of the complainant, 
made a statement that the complainant did not wish to pursue 
the complaint as they had now found out that the Industrial 
Tribunal was not the appropriate authority to take action 
In the matter. 

4. Having regard to the statement of Shri Mohinder Singh, 
the authorised representative of the complainant, as repro- 
duced above, the complaint is disposed of, as not having 
been pursued and withdrawn. 

No order as to costs. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 420 12/1/73 /LRIII] 


S.O. 1736. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 33 A 
of the said Act filed by Shri Rup Chand which was received 
by the Central Government on 28th May, 1973, 



[Part TI — 


2206 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 


BEFORE SHRI P, P. R, SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR AT^LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No. 2/34 of 1972 

under section 33-A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 

Shri Rup Chand, Chowkidar, Token No. 519-AB., 

C/o B.S.L. Workers Union (Regd.) Sundernagar, 

.... Complainant. 

Vs. 

Executive Engineer. 

Ware House Division, 

B.S.L. Project, Sundernagar Township Respondent, 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohindc- Singh Toggar — for the complinant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Rup Chand, Chowkidar, has filed this complaint allege 
ing contravention of the provisions of section 33-A of the indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 by the respondent, inasmuch as 
punishment of pecuniary loss had been inflicted upon him 
which according to him was not within the competency of 
the Sub Divisional Officer, Store Sub Division, Sundernagar, 
and that this action had been taken without securing prior 
permission from this Tribunal before whom reference No. 2/C 
of 1971 was pending. 

2. The respondent filed reply to the complaint raising the 
following preliminary objections, and on merits the respon- 
dent refuted the contentions of the complainant workman, 

Preliminary objections : 

(1) That the complaint is bad in law, inasmuch as the 

condtions of service of the complainant immediately 
before the commencement of industrial dispute in 
reference No. 2/C of 1971. were not altered. nor was 
he discharged /dismissed from service during the 
pendency of the industrial dispute before the Tri- 
bunal. 

(2) That the instant complaint did not attract the provi- 

sions of section 33(a) and/or (b) of the Industrial 
disputes Act, 1947, and for that reason the com 
plaint was not maintainable. 

3. The proceedings were thereafter adjourned for filing 
of rejoinder, but instead of putting in any rejoinder, 
Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar, the authorised representative 
of the complainant, made a statement that the complainant did 
not wish to pursue the complaint as he had now found out 
that the Industrial Tribunal was not the appropriate authority 
to take action in the matter. 


4. Havmg regard to the statement made by Shri Mohinder 
Stngh Toggar. the authorised representative of the complainant 
as reproduced above, the complaint is disposed of as not 
having been pursued and withdrawn. 

No order as to costs. 


16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


C/o B. S. L. Workers Union, Sundernagar, Complainant 
Vs. 

Executive Engineer, Aggregate Production 

Division, B.ST. Project, Sundernagar 

Township. . . - * Respondent. 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar- — for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai — for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Karam Chand has filed this complaint under section 
33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 194/, and has inter alia 
stated therein that he had been dismissed from service vide 
letter No. 2448/1 1-E/Steno, dated 15-4-72, on mala fide and 
adverse findings of facte given by the enquiry officers, in 
the absence of any statement of an eye-witness of the incident 
without having secured prior permission of this Tribunal be- 
fore whom reference No, 2/C of 1971, relating to a general 
dispute, was pending in which he was one of the concerned 
workmen. 

2. The respondent Executive Engineer in the reply to th<i 
complaint has maintained that the enquiry officer had care- 
fully considered the charges as also the reply filed by the 
complainant and there was no mala fide intention, that the 
enquiry was impartial and there were no extraneous considera* 
tions, that this Tribunal had been approached for granting 
approval to the action taken as required under section 33(2)(b) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, that one month’s wages 
had been paid to the complainant, and that there was no 
contravention of section 33-A of the Act. 

3. In the rejoinder filed to the reply by the respondem 
executive Engineer, the complainant has more or less reiterated 
the position taken by him in the complaint and controverted 
the pleas put forward by the respondent Executive Engineer 
in his reply. 

He has also stated therein that the enquiry officer had 
given a perverse and untenable finding after making the 
following observations in his report : 

"T he only cause of accident is that the Driver made 
error in judgment and the defective steering for 
which the vehicle frequently visited the workshop," 

which are consistent with the version given by him (the 
complainant) and also for the reason that there was no eye 
witness to depose that there was any eye-witness to depose 
that there was any error of judgment, and that the enquiry 
officer had ignored principles of natural by allowing the 
prosecution to produce Shri Sarvan Kumar, Section Officer 
as a prosecution witness after the enquiry had been closed, 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issue 
was framed ; — - 

Whether there has been any contravention of the provi- 
sions of section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, inasmuch as the complainant has alleged that 
he had been unjustifiably dismissed from service 
during the pendency of reference No. 2/C of 1971, 
without obtaining approval from this Tribunal ? 


P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRini 


S.O* 1737.— Jn pursuance of section 17 of the Industria 
Dispute Act, . 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govei nmen 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Trl 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Sectloj 
33A of the said Act filed by Shri Karam Chand which wa 
received by the Central Government on 28-5-1973 


BEFORE SHRI P. P. R, SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTA 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TR 
BUNAL (CENTRAL) CHANDIGARH 


Complaint No. 2/31 of 1972 


under section 33 A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
Shn Karam Chand, driver, Token No. 341-J, 


5, The complainant has examined himself as the solitary 
witness and the respondent has also examined only his autho- 
rised representative, Shri Rattan Lai, as a witness. 

The charge-sheet, Ext. C/l, discolses that during the enquiry 
that had been conducted in respect of the damage caused 
to the vehicle, it had been found that due to carelessness in 
driving the vehicle on the wrong side of the road and by 
taking turn at a fast speed damage had been caused to the 
vehicle owned by the B. S. L, Project, which was wrong 
operation of the vehicle as envisaged in item No. XIX of 
section 17 of the certified standing orders in respect of non- 
factory staff. 

Reply that was filed by the complainant to charge-sheet 
Is Ext. C/2, in which a plea has been taken that the steering 
got jammed and brakes did not work as a result of which 
the vehicle struck against the parapet of a bridge, that ho 
was not used to drive that type of vehicle earlier and that 
this vehicle had been going to the workshop many a times, 
which facts could be checked from the records. 



Sec. 3 ( Li) J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2207 


On the basis of the findings of the enquiry officer, Ext 
R/2, a show cause notice, Ext. R/4, was served upon the 
complainant, which has a mention that one of the two 
charges i.e. driving the vehicle on wrong side of the road 
had been established. Reply C/3 was put in by the com- 
plainant to show cause notice, Ext. R/4 more or less reite* 
rating the stand taken by him in his reply submitted to the 
charge-sheet. 

In this connection it may be stated that there being no 
eye-witness to the occurence, the enauiry officer has based 
his findings on the enquiry committee's report and upon the 
statements of two witnesses who had been produced by the 
rosecution, namely, Sarvshri Avtar Singh and I. R, Kohli. 
.D.O., who do not claim to have seen the occurance and 
have made certain assertions based on some assumptions, 
which arc not borne out from the material that has been 
placed upon the record. 

The complainant has examined himself before the enquiry 
officer in support of the version given by him in the reply 
to the charge-sheet as well as to the show cause notice, and 
also examined Shri Sher Singh, beldar, who was alleged to 
have been in the truck when the accident took place, as also 
Shn Prem Nath fitter, and they have both stated that the 
truck was going at a slow speed at the time when the 
occurance took place, 

It is true that when an enquiry Is held and on the basis 
of the report of the enquiry officer action is taken, it should 
not ordinarily be in terf erred with simply for the reason that 
an other view could be taken than that taken by the. 

However, in the present case an irresistable conclusion seems 
to be that the enquiry officer’s findings arc on the face of 
them perverse and not sustainable and that there has also 
been violation of principles of natural justice. 

So for violation of principles of natural justice is con- 
cerned, it may be stated that it has been mentioned by the 
enquiry officer himself in his report, Ext. R/2, that after 
both the parties had closed their case and the enquiry had 
been concluded, on the request of the prosecution, he had 
allowed thorn to examine Shri Sarvan Kumar as a witness. 

This apart, the prosecution was represented by Shri S. C. 
Jain S.D.O., throughout the enquiry procedings, whereas 
according to the complainant, lie was not allowed assistance 
of any one from the Union’s side. 

So far as the findings of the enquiry officer being perverse 
is concerned,, statement of Shri I. R. Kohli, who had sent 
Shri Avtar Singh to the sport of the accident, as well as of 
Shri Avtar Singh, disclose that the findings of the enquiry 
officer are not based upon any information imparted by wit 
nesses to the occurence, inasmuch as Shri Avtar Singh has 
stated that the accident in his opinion was due to rash 
driving or some vehicle coming from the opposite direction, 
and Shri I. R. Kohli has stated that he assumed that the 
vehicle was going at a fast speed and while taking turn, it 
struck against parapet of the bridge on the wrong side, 

It may be added in this behalf that the enquiry officer In 
his report. Ext. R/2, has stated that taking into consideration 
the statements of Sarvashri Sher Singh and Prem Chand, the 
charge against the driver that he was driving the vehicle at 
a fast speed was not confirmed, and that the only cause 
of accident was that the driver made an error in judgment 
and defective steering, for which the vehicle visited the work- 
shop. 

It need hardly be emphasized that the findings of the 
enquiry officer being based on conjectures and not upon 
any material worth the name on record, should not have 
formed basis for the termination of services of the complain- 
ant, particularly so when it has been found by the enquiry 
officer himself that the steering was defective, and on that 
account the vehicle visited the workshop frequently and the 
enquiry officer should not have held the complainant was 
responsible for making an error in judgment and that in all 
fairness he should have reported that the case was that of 
simple accident, when no negligence as such had been proved 
on the part of the complainant, which might have justified 
taking the impugned action. 

So far as the report of the enquiry committee is concerned, 
the enquiry officer should not have acted upon it as jrono 
of the members of the enquiry committee appeared before him 
31 GI/73 — 1 1 


(the enquiry officer) and made statements and the complain- 
ant had in that way been deprived of the opportunity of 
cross-examining them. Mere placing the report or the enquiry 
committee before the enquiry officer cannot and should not 
have been taken as findings against the compainant. 

Having regard to what has been stated above, all that has 
been established befor the enquiry officer, and also as per his 
findings is that the accident took place for which the com- 
plainant could not be held responsible — ho having not driven 
the vehicle at a fast speed or having been negligent in any 
manner and if at all, that there had been bonafide error in 
judgment on his port. 

It need hardly be reiterated that the findings of the enquiry 
officer are not only perverse, but they are also not based 
upon any material that may have been placed on record 
and are m fact based on deposition of the two witnesses that 
have been produced by the prosecution, namely, Sarvashri 
Avtar Singh and I. R. Kohli S.D.O., Autoshop, Sundemagar, 
who are not witnesses to the occurance 

It is as such held that there was no justification for the 
respondent, Executive Engineer, to have terminated the ser- 
vices of the complainant. 

Apart from this, it may be mentioned that it is common 
ground between the parties that reference No. 2/C of 1971 
was pending at the relevant time in which the complainant 
Is one of the concerned workmen and no prior permission 
had been taken from this Tribunal before the impugned action 
was taken. No doubt, Shri Rattan Lai, the authorised repre- 
sentative of the respondent Executive Engineer, has stated 
that they had applied separately for granting approval, but 
no such application is traceable from the records. 

Under these circumstances, it is held that there has been 
contravention of provisions of section 33 in terminating the 
services of the complainant, and the action taken by the 
respondent is not justified or in order, and that the complain- 
ant is entitled to reinstatement w r ith continuity of service and 
paid full back wages. 

No order as to costs. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRIII] 

S.O. 1738, — Tn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publshes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Hariman which was re- 
ceived bv the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 


BEFORE SHRI P. P. R. SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 

BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 

Complaint No, 2/42 of 1972 

Under Section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Shri Hariman, Beldar, Token No; 225-H, C/o B.S.L, 
Workers Union, Sundemagar — Complainant, 

Vs, 

Executive Engineer, Bharari Tunelling Division, B.S.L. 
Project, Sundemagar Township — Respondent. 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai for the respondent. 

AWARD 

Shri Hariman, beldar, has filed this complaint under 
section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
stating therein that his services had been terminated on 
10-1-72, without securing permission of this Tribunal before 
whom reference No. 2/C of 1971 was pending, which was 
done in contravention of the provisions of section 33-A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. No reply was filed to the complaint by the authorised 
representative of the respondent Executive Engineer, but 
instead, the authorised representative of the respondent made 



2208 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 


a statement that a decision had been taken to tftke Shri 
Hariman back in service and to allow him continuity of 
service, without payment of wages for the period he remained 
out of service. 

Shri Mohinder Singh, the authorised representative of the 
complainant, after hearing the statement made by Shri Rattan 
Lai, the authorised representative of the respondent Executive 
Engineer, has stated that the complainant did not wish to 
proceed with the complaint, and that it (nay be disposed of 
as having been settled and withdrawn. 

3, Having regard to the statements made by the authorised 
representatives of the parties, reproduced above, the com- 
plaint is disposed of as not having been pursued and with- 
drawn. 

P, P. R, SAWHNY, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LRIII] 


S.O. 1739. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Chandigarh in respect of a complaint under Section 
33 A of the said Act filed by Shri Jeet Ram which was re- 
ceived by the Central Government on 28-5-1973. 


BEFORE SHRI P. P. R, SAWHNY, B.A. (HONS.) CANTAB 
BAR-AT-LAW, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 


Complaint No. 2/16 of 1972 

Under Section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act* 1947. 
Shri Jcct Ram, conductor, Token No : 354-F, C/o 
B.S.L, Workers Union, Simdernagar, District Mandi 
(H.P.). — Eomplaintant. 

Vs. 

Executive Engineer, B.S.E. Workshop Division, No. 2 
Simdemagar. Township, Mandi (H.P.).— Respondent. 

Appearances : 

Shri Mohinder Singh Toggar for the complainant. 

Shri Rattan Lai for the respondent. 

AWARD 


Jeet Ram, conductor, who was working in the 
Workshop Division No. 2, Sundcrnagap, under the respon- 
dent Executive Engineer, has filed this complaint under section 
33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, stating therein 
that when reference No. 2/C of 1971 was pending since 
4-3-1972 before this Tribunal in regard to general disputes 
with which ho was concerned, 


the respondent had terminated his services on 24-8-71 
of section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and 
that the respondent Executive Engineer vacated the orders of 
termination of his services and placed him under suspention 
with effect from 29-8-71 vide letter No. 6612-17/7E/PF, 
dated 29-9-71, annexuce B and then again terminated his 
services vide his letter No; 556-60/7E/PF, dated 29 - 9-71 
annexture *C\ 


that this action of the respondent was malafide and unfair 
and that he be granted interim relief, and allowed to resume 
duty till the final decision of the complaint, 

2. In the reply filed by the respondent Executive Engi- 
neer, it has been admitted that the services of the com- 
plainant had been terminated^ on 24-8-7L and that the com- 
plaint had filed a complaint and the Tribunal had given 
award setting asde the order of his termination of services, 
and it has been added that the award had been complied 
with and thereafter the respondent had proceeded to take 
action against the complainant according to the provisions 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for misconduct after 
completing requirements in respect of work-charged emplo- 
yees, and his services had been terminated vide letter No, 


16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


555-60/7-E/PF, dated 31-1-72, and that the Tribunal had 
been approached vide letter No; 546/7-E/PF, dated 31-1-72 
for giving approval, after paying one month’s wages, and that 
the complaint bo dismissed and approval to terminate the 
services of the complainant be granted. 

3. In the rejoinder the complainant has more or less reb 
terated the position taken by him in the complaint and 
generally refilled the picas raised by the respondent in tho 
reply to the complaint and maintained that the respondent 
Executive Engineer had not moved any application before 
the Tribunal for seeking approval of the action taken, and 
had thereby contravened the provisions of section 33(2) (b) 
of the Industrial Dispute? Act, 1947, once again. 

4. On the pleadings of the parties, the following issue was 
framed : — 

Whether the respondent was not justified in terminating 
the services of Shri Jeet Ram, complainant, with 
effect from 24-8-71 and whether on that account 
there had been contravention of the provisions of 
section 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947? 

Thereafter the parties were allowed to lead their evidence. 
The complainant has examined himself as a witness, and 
also Shri Mohinder Singh, his authorised representative. 

The respondent has examined Shri M. M. Sharma, S.D.O., 
Workshop Division No. 2, enquiry officer, as a witness. 

5. It is common ground between the parties that Shri Jeet 
Ram, complainant, first filed a complaint and an award was 
given on 22-10-71 by this Tribunal, holding that the com- 
plainant be deemed to be in service of the respondent from 
the date the orders were passed terminating his services, he. 
on 24-8-71, and he was entitled to payment of wages due 
to him from the aforesaid date, and that in view of the 
reply filed by the respondent, the complaint had become In- 
fructuous, and it was disposed of as such, that since the res- 
pondent reserved the right to proceed against the complainant 
as per provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, if 
considered necessary, it was open to the respondent to take 
such action in the matter as may be open to him under th<* 
law, and that such an action should be taken within a 
reasonable period so that there may not be unnecessary sus- 
pense and harassment to the complainant. 

It is also an admitted fact that after this award had been 
given, again Shri Jeet Ram’s services were terminated by the 
respondent on 31-1-72. 

The respondent maintains that this had been done after 
an application had been filed on 24-8-71 for approval being 
given to the action taken against the complainant. 

No doubt there is an application on the record, dated 
3 L 1-72, from the respondent Executive Engineer for appro- 
val being given to the action taken in terminating the services 
of Shri Jeet Ram, but this application for reasons best known 
to the applicant Executive Engineer was not pursued. In any 
case this application is of no consequence as it had been 
submitted nearly 8 months after the date when the im- 
pugned action had been taken and ns such there has been 
contravention of the provisions of section 33(2)(b) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Apart from this, no enquiry seems to have been held a 
second time against Shri Jeet Ram, complainant, before his 
services were ordered to be terminated on 24-8-71 presum- 
ably the action had been taken against on the basis of en- 
quirv held by Shri M. M- Sharma as per proceedings, Ext. 
R/2! 

It may be added that since termination of services of 
Shri Jcct Ram on the basis of the aforesaid enquiry had 
been set aside and even in the award given by this Tribunal 
it had been left open to the respondent to take action against 
Shri Jeet Ram again, but a fresh enquiry ought to have 
been held and on its basis appropriate action taken. 

Under these circumstances it is unnecessary to go into the 
question whether the enquiry held by Shri M. M. Sharma 
was fair or not or that there had been no violation of the 



SEC. 3(il)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


principles of natural justice. In passing it may, however, be 
mentioned that the complainant has alleged that he had not 
been allowed to examine some documents and registers 
which he demanded during the enquiry proceedings, and this 
fact has been admitted by Shri Sharma that the relevant 
material was not produced by the respondent on the plea 
that it was missing. In that, way there is some force in the 
contention of the complainant that the enquiry was not fair 
and just, and that he had been deprived of a very important 
provision on which he could have proved his innocence. 

It is also to be found from the statement of Shri Jeet 
Ram that after the award had been given by this Tribunal, 
the respondent had set aside the orders of termination of his 
services, and that when he had been working for nearly 
three months, his services were again terminated without 
any fresh enquiry having been held. 

With this back ground, the order passed by the respon- 
dent in terminating the services of Shri Jeet Ram is not 
sustainable, and it is held that the respondent was not justi- 
fied in terminating the services of Shri Jeet Ram with effect 
from 24-8-71, and that there has been contravention of the 
provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. That being so, Shri Jeet Ram is entitled to be reinstated 
with continuity of service and to also Day to him wages for 
the period of un-employmenl. 

No orders as to costs. 

P. P. R. SAWHNY, Presiding Officer, 
[No. L. 42012/1 /73/LR III] 

New Delhi, 7th June, 1973 

S*0. 1740. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 194/ (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the matter of an applica- 
tion under Section 33A of the said Act from Sri Nany Sen 
Regd. No. 4992, Baragolai Colliery, Assam which was 
received by the Central Government on the 31st May, 1973. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
AT CALCUTTA 

Miscellaneous Application No. 10 of 1972 

(Arising out of Reference No. 154 of 1966). 

Parties : 

Sri Nanu Sen, Regd. No. 4992. 

Baragolai Colliery, 

P. O. Baragolai, Dt. Dibrugarh, 

Assam Applicant, 

Vs. 

Management of Messrs Assam 

Railway & Trading Co, Ltd., 

P. O. Margherita, Dt. Dibrugarh, 

Assam Opp. Party. 

Present : 

Shri S. N, — Presiding Officer. 

Appearance ; 

On behalf of Applicant — Absent 

On behalf of Opp, party — Sri J. K. Ghosh, Advocate, 
with Sri S, P. Sen Gupta, Advocate. 

State: Assam Industry : Coal Mine 

AWARD 

This Is an application under Section 33 A ot the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, arising out of Reference No. 154 ol 
1966 containing allegations made before this tribunal, filled 
by one Nanu Sen, Regd. No. 4992, of Baragolai Colliery, 
against the management of Messrs Assam Railways & Tra- 
ding Co. Ltd., P. O. Margherita, District Dibrugarh, Assam, 

2, The applicant workman complained contravention of 
Section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act by the 
management. The management entered appearance and gave 
its rejoinder to the workmans application under Section 
33 A of the Industrial Disputes Act. On the prayer of the 
workman made in the connected case filed by the manage- 
ment under Section 33(2) (b) of the Act against the work- 
man, this cas/i and the sister case referred to above had 
been fixed for hearing at Camp Gauhati. The notice of the 


JUNE 16, 1 9 7 3 / J Y AISTH A 26, 1895 2209 


date of hearing and the venue of hearing had been duly 
served on the workman applicant In both the cases i.c. the 
case under Section 33(2) (b) filed by the management 
against the workman and in the present case filed by the 
workman h gainst the management under Section 33 A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 

3. On the date fixed for hearing at Camp Gauhati, the 
management appeared but none appeared for the applicant. 
Workman either in the present case under Section 33 A of 
the 1. D. Act or in the other case under Section 33(2) (b) 
of the Act filed by the management against, the workman. 
When the present case was called on for hearing the 
management, appeared but not the workman. So it is presu- 
med that the allegations made in the application under Sec- 
tion 33 A of the Act by the workman against the manage- 
ment are unfounded, Accordingly, there is no dispute on 
the score of alleged contravention of any provision of Sec- 
tion 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act by the 
management against the applicant Nanu Sen in this pre- 
sent case and the opposite party in the sister case. 

In the result, I render a ‘no dispute’ award in the present 
case and reject the application under Section 33 A of the 
Industrial Dispute Act, 1947. 

This is my award. 

S. N, BAGCHI, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-19025/17/73-LR II] 

S.O. 1741, — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 1, Dhanbad, in the 
Industrial, dispute between the employers in relation to the 
management of South Jbaria Colliery, Post Office Jharia, 
District Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received, 
by the Central Government on the 31st May, 1973, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL NO, 1, DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(l)(d) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 82 of 1971 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the management of South 
Jharia Colliery, P. O. Jharia, (Dhanbad). 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

Present; 

Mr. Justice D. D. Seth (Reid.), Presiding Officer. 
Appearances: 

For the Old Management — Shri P. K. Bose* Advocate. 

For the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. — Shri S. S. Mukherjee, 
Advocate. 

For the Workmen — Shri G. Prasad, Advocate. 

State: Bihar Industry: Coal 

Dhanbad, the 22nd May, 1973 
AWARD 

This is a reference made by the Central Government 
under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), by an order No. L/20 12/82/71 -LRU dated 
New Delhi, the 1 3th December, 1971 in respect of an in- 
dustrial dispute between the parties mentioned above. The 
subject matter of the dispute has been specilled in the 
schedule to the said order and runs as follows:— 

‘‘Whether the action of the management of South 
Jharia Colliery, Post Office Jharia, District Dhan- 
bad in stopping from work the workmen noted be- 
low from the dates mentioned against their names 



22)0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


is justified? If not, to what relief these workmen are 
entitled?" 


Si. No. Name of the Workmen 


Designa- 

tion 

Dale of 

stoppage 
of Work 

1 2 



3 

4 

1 Gendo Bhuia . 



Miner 

21-1-1971 

2 Dukhan Bhuia 

, 


“Do- 

2M-1971 

3 Maheshi Bhuia 



-Do- 

2M-1971 

4 Tapan Bhuia , 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

5 Sohan Bhuia . 



“Do- 

21-1-1971 

6 Kali Bhuia , 



-Do^ 

21-1-1971 

7 Dina Bhuia No 2 

, 


-Do- 

23-1-1971 

8 Bihari Bhuia . 



-Do- 

23-1-1971 

9 Banshi Bhuia . 



-Do- 

22-1-1971 

10 Nageshwar Bhuia 



“Do- 

22-1-1971 

1 1 S hankar Bhu ia No 2 



-Do- 

23-1-1971 

12 Amt rit Bhuia 



-Do- 

23-1-1971 

13 Shiban Bhuia r 



“Do- 

20-1-1971 

14 Mangar Bhuia. 



-Do- 

22-1-1971 

15 Bideshi Bhuia . 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

16 Barhan Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

17 Kedar Bhuia , 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

18 Tcjo Bhuia . 



“Do- 

22-1-1971 

19 Giridhari Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

20 Harj Bhuia 



-Do- 

2M-1971 

21 Jiban Bhuia 



-Do- 

20-1-1971 

22 Ramtahal Bhuia 



— Do— 

20-1-1971 

23 RamswarooP Dusadh 



-Do- 

20-1-1971 

24 Tulsi Dusadh . 



“Do- 

20-1-1971 

25 Karu Dusadh . 



-Do- 

20-1-1971 

26 Munilal Kurm i 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

27 Pyari Gope 



-Do^ 

21-1-1971 

23 KaluChamar 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

29 Baleshwar Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

30 Sanichar Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

31 Kamdeo Bhuia 



“Do- 

21-1-1971 

32 Laxman Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

33 Gokul Mahato 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

34 Indradeo Dusadh 



“Do- 

21-1-1971 

35 Ram Swarup Dusadh No 2 


-Do- 

21-1-1971 

36 Bhulan Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

37 Ranu Bhui.i . 



-Do- 

22-1-1971 

38 TojoBhuiaNo2 



“Do - 

23-1-1971 

39 vSarjoo Bhuia . 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

40 Deo Nandan Bhuia 



“Do * 

22-1-1971 

41 Sami Bhuia 



-Do- 

22-1-1971 

42 Jagdeo Bhuia , 



-Do- 

22-1-1971 

43 Gobind Bhuia 



“Do^ 

21-1-1971 

44 Basu Mochi 



-Do- 

22-1-1971 

45 Gangadhar Bauri 



“Do- 

22-1-1971 

46 Rangoo Bhuia. 



“Do- 

21-1-1971 

47 Chamari Dusadh 



Trarmner 

19-1-1971 

48 Bundi Halwai . 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

49 Chhabi Nath Mochi 



-Do- 

20-1-1971 

50 Jethu Mochi 



“Do- 

19-1-1971 

51 Akloo Sao 



-Do- 

20-1-1971 

52 Barho Dusadh 



“Do- 

21-1-1971 

53 Baldeo Dusadh 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

54 Budhan Bhuia 



-Do- 

21-1-1971 

55 Baleshwar Bhuia 


. 

-Do- 

19-1-1971 


2. The reference was received by this Tribunal on 16*17- 

1971 and, thereafter, usual notices were issued to the parties. 
A notice was also issued to the Custodian since the colliery 
had been taken over by the Central Government. On be- 
half of the old employers (herein-after Called the manage- 
ment) a written statement dated 6-3-1972 was received in 
this Tribunal the same day and was placed on the record. 
On 24-3-1972 an application was received from Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited stating that it had no objection to 
being added as a party in the reference. A month’s time 
was prayed for filling a written statement on behalf of 
the Bharat Coking Coal Limited. Accordingly Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited was added as a party to the reference 
and the time prayed for filling written statement was allowed. 
On 1-5 1972 a written statement on behalf of the Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited was received and was placed on the 
record. A written statement on behalf of the workmen 
dated 26-8-1972 was received the same day and was placed 
on the record. On 27-9-1972 five items of documents were 
filed on behalf of the management and an application was 
filed for production of documents of Regional Labour Com- 
missioner (C), Dhanbad. Accordingly the record of the 
Regional Labour Commissioner was summoned. A rejoinder 
on behalf of the management in reply to the written state- 
ment of the Workmen waft filed on 25-10-1972, On 30-10- 

1972 a rejoinder on behalf of the workmen in reply to the 
written statement of the management was received and placed 
on record. On 16-1 1-1972 Shri G. Prasad, appearing for 
the workmen filed certain documents along with a list. On 
30-12-1972 rejoinder of the workmen in reply to the written 
statement filed by the Bharat Coking Coal Limited was 
received by the office of the Tribunal. On 11-1-1973 Shri 
G. Prasad, appearing for the workmen files 28 items of 
documents along with the list which were placed on the 
record. Shri G. Prasad also filed an application for pro- 
duction of certain documents from the Joint Director of 
Mines Safety ; Regional Labour Commissioner (C), Dhan- 
bad and Assistant Secretary, Coal Mines Welfare Commis- 
sioner, Accordingly, those documents were called for. On 
22-1-1973 Shri G. Prasad, appearing for the workmen filed 
an application calling for original documents from the office 
of tne Jharia Police Station and also filed an application 
for summoning Shri A. P, Sinha, Assistant Labour Commis- 
sioner to appear before this Tribunal, Accordingly a sum- 
mon was issued to Shri A. P, Sinha Assistant Labour Com- 
missioner* 

3. On 2-4-1973, on perusal of the documents filed on 
behalf of the workmen Shri P. K. Bose, appearing for the 
management, did not admit any document while Shri G. 
Prasad off perusal of the documents filed on behalf of the 
management admitted only one document which was marked 
Ext, M 1. The same day Shri A, K. Banerjce, M,W. 1 
was examined on behalf of the management and he proved 
certain documents which were marked Exts. M 2 to Ext. 
M. 5. An application was filed by the learned representa- 
tive of the workmen praying for withdrawal of certain 
documents from Reference No. 57 of 1971 and for being 
allowed to file those documents in the present reference. 
Another prayer made by the workmen was that the stand- 
ing orders of the colliery may also be allowed to be with- 
drawn from reference No, 57 of 197 1. Shri P. K. Bose, 
thereupon, submitted, that Shri A. K. Banerjee, M.W, 1 
must get an opportunity to go through the documents with- 
drawn from the record of Reference No. 57 of 1971 and, 
therefore, his cross-examination be fixed for another date. 
Accordingly 15th May, 1973 was fixed for further cross- 
examination of M*W. 1 with the consent of the parties. 
On 15-5-1973 Shri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate appeared for 
the Bharat Coking Coal Limited and Shri P. K, Bose, Ad- 
vocate appealed for the old management but neither the 
workmen nor any one else appeared on their behalf, I 
waited for an hour but no Intimation was received from 
the workmen or their representative about their absence. 
As a last chance I fixed the case for 21-5-1973 on which 
date Shri A. K. Banerjee, M.W. 1 was further cross* 
examined and he proved Ext. W 1. On behalf of the work- 
men Bundi Ram Halwai, W.W. 1 and H. M. Landey, 
W. W. 2 were examined, cross-examined and were discharged. 
W.W, 2 proved certain documents which were marked Exts 
W 2 to W, 4. As there was no time left for arguments the 
case adjourned for the next day i.e. 22-5-1973. 

4. The workmen’s case, put briefly, is that the concerned 
workmen are members of the Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor 
Sangh which is the recognised union by the management. 



Sec. 3(ii)| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE J 6, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2211 


The management however, never liked this union since there 
had been a continuous struggle between the workmen and 
the management since the inception of this union in regard 
to several matters such as, non-payment of proper wages, 
Other legal dues and other matters. The management, ac- 
cordingly, became hostile to the recognised union. On 
19-1 -1971 an incident took place outside the premises of 
the colliery. In this incident a member of the staff of 
colliery, whose name was revealed in the course of evidence 
as Babulal Gope, Provident Fund Clerk was assaulted by 
some unknown persons on his way to the market and this 
incident was utilised by the management to get rid of this 
union and other workmen implicated in this case and also 
to get them harassed by the police authorities. Also taking 
advantage of the incident of Babulal Gope the manage- 
ment stopped the concerned workmen from their duties be- 
tween 19-1-197 1 and 23-1-1971. New workmen from amongst 
the contractor’s workmen were recruited immediately hy 
the management. The concerned workmen were neither 
charge-sheeted nor were they suspended for their misconduct 
and they have been sitting idle since they were stopped 
from working. According to the workmen the management 
did not allow the workmen to resume work in the colliery 
and this action of the management was not justified and 
amounted to victimisation and unfair labour practice. It 
is stated in paragraph 4 of the workmen's written statement 
that the action of the management in stopping the con- 
cerned workmen from their work was illegal, unjustified and 
arbitrary. It also transpired during the evidence that the 
union raised an industrial dispute before the Assistant Labour 
Commissioner (C), Dhanbad and conciliation proceedings 
were started but no conciliation could take place. 

5. The case of the management, on the other hand, is that 
the present matter is not an industrial dispute and, as such, 
is outside the scope of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
It is also stated that the reference is bad in law and that 
neither the workmen themselves nor the union sponsoring 
their case ever raised any dispute with the management of 
the colliery about the matter which is the subject matter of 
the reference, In paragraph 5 of the management’s written 
statement it is stated that the management came to know 
about the matter only when it received a letter dated 6-2-71 
from the Assistant Labour Commissioner (C), Dhanbad. II 
in which a copy of the representation made by the workmen 
before that officer was enclosed. It is further the case of 
the management that at the relevant period of time there 
were about 400 workmen working in the concerned colliery 
and that there were two rival unions of the workmen in the 
colliery and they were fighting with each other for ousting 
the rival. On 19-1-1971 a clerk of the colliery was assaul- 
ted on the road leading to the colliery and acid was thrown 
oil his face-destroying both the eyes and on account of 
this incident there were great tension between the two 
groups of workers and the police authorities arrested a 
numoer of workmen in the afternoon of 20-1-1971. All 
the arrested workmen belonging to a particular union. Ac- 
cording to the management the concerned workmen absented 
themselves from their respective duties without leave or 
without any intimation on various dates beginning from 
19-1-1971 and the management posted a general notice 
dated 1-2-71 on the Notice Board giving the names and de- 
signations of all the 55 workmen concerned and asked them 
to report for their respective duties immediately along with 
an explanation in writing regarding the cause of their un- 
authorised absence from their duties. None of the con- 
cerned workmen however either reported for duty or sub- 
mitted any explanation to the management. The manage- 
ment did not sturt departmental proceedings for misconduct 
and breach of contract against the concerned workmen on 
account of the pendency of the conciliation proceedings. 
The management’s further case is that it never 
stopped the concerned workmen from performing their 
duties and that the concerned workmen themselves 
absented from their work and hence the present matter is 
a case of abandonment of their work by the workmen them- 
selves, It is stated in paragraph 9 of the management’s 
written statement that the union which sponsored the cause 
of the conccrcncd workmen was a recognised union by the 
colliery and, as such, the management could not have any 
malice against the activities of the union or against its 
members. 

6. The management contended that the concerned work- 
men were victims of trade union rivalry between the two 
unions of the colliery for which the management could not 
be penalised. 


7. In its written statement the Bharat Coking Coal Limi- 
ted has stated that there did not exist any relationship of 
employer and employees between the Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited and the concerned workmen at the relevant time 
and hence there was no Industrial dispute between the 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited and the concerned workmen 
and, as such, no award can be passed against the Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited which is in no way liable or responsi- 
ble for any act of the past management prior to the date 
of taking over of the colliery under the provisions of Coking 
Coal Mines ^Nationalisation) Act, 1972. The Bharat Cok- 
ing Coal Limited, apart from making these legal submissions 
adopted the written statement filed by the outgoing em- 
ployers on merits. 

8. In its rejoinder to the written statement on behalf of 
the workmen the management reiterated that the concerned 
workmen had absented themselves from their duties and the 
management never stopped them as alleged by the 
workmen. All other statements made in their original 
written statements were reiterated by the management in 
its rejoinder. 

9. In its rejoinder to the Written statement of the manage- 
ment the workmen also reiterated their statements made in 
their original written statement and denied that the concerned 
workmen themselves abandoned their work and did not report 
for their duties, They also denied that the stoppage of work 
by the concerned workmen was due to the rivalry of the two 
unions in the colliery. According to them the concerned 
workmen were illegally and arbitrarily stopped from work by 
the management without any justification or just cause, Ac- 
cording to the workmen under paragraph 18(n) of the certi- 
fied standing orders of the colliery, as applicable to the manage- 
ment and the concerned workmen, continuous absence with- 
out permission and without satisfactory cause for more than 
10 days amounts to misconduct, and an elaborate procedure 
is laid down in the standing orders for taking disciplinary 
action. The workmen also denied that they were ever asked 
to submit any explanation for their absence by the manage- 
ment. They also denied that they did not report for duty 
and further that any notice was affixed on the Notice Board 
or near the main entrance of the Head Office of the colliery. 
According to them the addresses of the concerned workmen 
were known to the management as they were contained in 
the statutory l B' form register and other statutory registers 
and the management was bound, under the standing orders, 
to issue charge-sheets to the workmen, calling for their ex- 
planation, make an enquiry after giving reasonable notice but 
the management did not proceed at all under the standing 
orders of the colliery and hence the dismissal of the concern- 
ed workmen was illegal, unjustified and against the piinciples 
of natural justice. 

10. The standing orders of the colliery are in the record 
of the Assistant Labour Commissioner (C), Dhanbad. 

11. The picliminary objection of Shri P, K. Bose, Advo- 
cate appearing for the management is that the present matter 
is not an industrial dispute as neither the workmen nor the 
union sponsoring their cause ever raised any dispute with 
the management which is in issue in the present reference 
and hence the leference is without jurisdiction and is bad 
in law. In this connection Shi 1 P.K. Bose, examined Shri 
A. K. Banerjee, (M.W. 1), Agent of the colliciy from 1956 
till 1971 i.e. till the taking over of the colliery by the Gov- 
ernment. Shri Banerjee stated that there were two trade 
unions in the colliery and that out of the two Krantikary 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh was th* recognised union. Accord- 
ing to him that union did not raise any dispute with the 
management at any time. The witness denied that the 
management had set lip a rival union against the Krantikary 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh. The witness deposed about the 
incident of Shri Babulal Gope, Provident Fund Clerk on 
1 9-1-197 1 and stated that there was great quairel between 
the two unions about the incident as a result of which the 
police authorities arrested some workmen, The witness 
further staled that he, on behalf of the management, had not 
authorised anybody to lodge a F.I.R. about the incident of 
Babulal Gope with the police. According to Shri Banerjee, 
large number of workmen absented themselves from the 
colliery after the incident and the witness (MW 1) issued 
notice dated 1-2-1972 which bears his signature. This notice 
was issued against the 89 workmen and was posted on the 
Notice Board. Those 89 workmen named in the notice 



2212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


included the names of the concerned 55 workmen. This 
notice was proved by M.W. 1 and was marked Ext. M, 2, 
According to Shri A. K. Buncrjec, by this notice, the manage- 
ment had asked the workmen to report for their respective 
duties. Ext. M 2 was exhibited on the Notice Board. Shri 
Bancrjee, M.W, t further stated that between the date of 
incident i.e. 19-1-71 and 17-10-1971 when the colliery was 
taken over by the Central Government the concerned work- 
men did not approach him regarding any dispute and neither 
of the two unions in the colliery had raised any dispute. The 
witness denied that the management had stopped the work- 
men from working. 

12 In cross-examination the witness stated that the inci- 
dent to Shri Babulal Gopc took place outside the premises 
of the colliery and that the colliery management did not file 
any report regarding the incident with the police authorities. 
The witness was not present at the time and place of occur- 
rence when Babulal Gopc was assaulted. The incident to 
Babulal Gope took place sometime in the evening at 
8, 0’Clock. The witness stated that he did not know the 
name of the person who had lodged the F.I.R. on 19-1-1971. 
He also did not know if the F.I.R. was lodged by Shri 
Sarvieet Singh who was the Personnel Officer in the colliery 
on 19-1-1971. The witness admitted that there were stand- 
ing orders in the colliery but did not remember if he issued 
any chargesheets to the concerned workmen who absented 
themselves from their duties and also did not call for any 
explanation from the workmen for their absence. The wit- 
ness deposed that he only posted the notice on the Notice 
Board in which the workmen were requested to join their 
duties but they did not join. The witness admitted that he 
did not send copies of that notice to the individual workmen 
at their home addresses although statutory B form register 
was maintained in the colliery and in that register addresses 
of all workmen were mentioned but the witness did not go 
through the register. The witness admitted that according to 
paragraph 18 (n) of the standing orders of the colliery if the 
workmen absented themselves from their duties continuously 
for more than 10 days without permission that would have 
amounted to misconduct. The witness also admitted that 
conciliation proceedings were started by the conciliation 
officer in regard to the dispute of the present concerned 
workmen in this reference. Witness was shown a letter 
dated 22-2-1971 and stated that this letter which was in the 
file of the Regional Labour Commissioner was written by 
the witness and bore his signature. This letter was marked 
Ext. W 1. 

13. At this stage it Is partinent to observe that the witness 
did not speak of any letters of dismissal which were issued 
to the workmen till the date of his deposition before the 
Tribunal. 

14. On behalf of the workmen two witnesses were examin- 
ed. W.W. 1 is Bundi Ram Halwai. He stated that he had 
been working in the colliery since 1959 but he is not work- 
ing at present. He used to do the work of a trammer. He 
Is a member of the Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Sangh, 
having become its member in 1967 and is still a member of 
that union. Bundi Ram deposed that on 21-1-1971 he went 
to the colliery to report for his duty and had gone to the 
attendance clerk who told him that there was no work for 
him. Along with Bundi Ram several other workmen had 
gone to the attendance clerk at the same time and all these 
workmen were stopped from working. Thereafter, Bundi 
Ram and the other workmen went to the Manager of the 
colliery who told them that since they weie members of the 
red flag union* there was no work for them. Thereafter 
Bundi Ram and other workmen w'ent to the office of the 
union and approached Shri H.M, Landey the Secretary of 
the union. Shri Bundi Ram stated that he again went 
to the colliery for work and continued to do so for 15 
days but his attendance was not recorded. All the other 54 
workmen also went for work for 15 days. The witness de- 
nied that he saw any notice on the notice board in the col- 
liery and stated that the Manager of the colliery had not 
served any charge-sheet on him or had not served any docu- 
ment terminating his services in the colliery. He also denied 
that he and other workmen themselves stopped going to their 
work and deposed that, at present, he is sitting idle. Bundi 
Ram admitted that there are two unions in the colliery. 
The second union of which he was not a member belonged 
to IN.T.U.C, The witness stated that he is still ready to go 
to the colliery for work and he further stated that the 
Manager of the colliery did not pay him his dues, although 


[Part II — 


he had gone to the manager to collect his dues. In cross- 
examination by Shri P. K. Bose Shri Bundi Ram stated that 
he lived in the colliery premises in one of the quarters and 
he continued to stay in the quarter for one year after he 
had been stopped from work and thereafter he left the 
quarter. He lived for one year without work on his savings 
and by selling the ornament of his wife. The witness ad- 
mitted that he could not read English and also admitted that 
he would be able to read a document in Hindi. 
He reiterated that he and other workmen had been stopped 
from work in the colliery with effect from 19-1-1971. The 
witness admitted that he has got a receipt of the payment 
of his subscription of the Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Sangh 
at his house but he has not brought it before this Tribunal, 
The witness denied that he knew as to which party was con- 
cerned in the incident to Babulal Gope. The witness did 
not remember that he was a member of I.N.T.U.C union 
organised by Shri Janki Singh between 1963 to 1967. He 
also denied that there was dispute between the two unions 
in the colliery in 1967 or thereafter. He further denied that 
the incident to Babulal Gope took place as a result of rivalry 
of the two unions but admitted that the persons who had 
been arrested by the Police Authorities after the incident to 
Babulal Gope belonged to the union of which the witness 
was ft member. 


15. Shri H.M. Landey is W.W. 2. He is the Secretary 
of Krantikary Koyala Mazdoor Sangh. He named the 
different collieries in which his union is functioning. The 
witness had been the Secretary of the Krantikary Koyala 
Mazdoor Sangh since 1968 and stated that there were about 
300 to 400 workmen working in the concerned colliery 
who were members of his union. Whenever there was any 
dispute between his union and the management he used to 
look after the correspondence. The witness stated that all 
the 55 concerned workmen in this reference, after they had 
been stopped from w r ork, had appioached him and thereafter 
the witness had a telephonic conversation with the Manager 
of the colliery who told the witness that he had received 
orders from the Proprietors of the colliery not to allow the 
workmen to work. The witness was shown a letter which 
he wrote lo the Manager about the stoppage of work of the 
concerned workmen and stated that a true copy of this letter 
was filed before the Tribunal sometime ago. This letter 
was marked Ext. W 2. Shri Landey further stated that he 
wrote to the Conciliation Officer regarding the industrial dis- 
pute between the management and the union and that letter 
was dated 27-1-1971. That document is also on the record 
of the Regional labour Commissioner. That document was 
marked Ext. W 3. According to the witness, during the 
pendency of the conciliation proceedings he had no talk 
with the management in regard to the present dispute. The 
letter which the witness had sent to the Manager of the col- 
liery had been sent on a Peon Book. The witness proved 
the Peon Book which was marked Ext. W 4. Shri Landey 
also stated that the relations of his union with the manage- 
ment were not very cordial because there had been several 
settlements between the union and the management but the 
management had not implemented these settlements and fur- 
ther the Proprietors of the colliery did not use to pay the 
workmen according to the Wage Board Recommendations. 
The witness described the assault on Babulal Gope and stated 
that this assault did not take place as a result of rivalry 
between the two unions in the colliery, According to the 
witness, although his name was implicated in the incident to 
Babulal Gope, but no criminal case was started against him. 
The witness stated that the workmen did not report to him 
that they had been served with the charge-sheets by the 
management. Babulal Gope was not a member of the 
union of the witness. After the workmen had been stopped 
from working the witness had no discussions either with the 
Agent or the Proprietors of the colliery* The witness stated 
that there is a Code of Discipline applicable to the Coal 
Mining Industry and admitted that he had not* reported about 
the stoppage of work of the 55 concerned workmen to the 
Board of Code of Discipline. Shri Landey fuilher deposed 
that some employees of the colliery were arrested after the 
incident to Babulal Gope but they were subsequently releas- 
ed on bail, and admitted that all the arrested persons were 
members qf his union. The witness denied that there were 
frequent clashes between his union and the other union in 
the colliery and also denied that several workmen left the 
colliery themselves on account of a clash between the two 
rival unions as a result of the incident to Babulal Gope. He 
reiterated that it was the management who stopped the 55 
workmen concerned in this reference from their work and 



Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


that the stoppage of work was not due to the reason that 
the workmen themselves had abandoned their work for fear 
of being aassaulted by the rival union. 

16. I have heard the learned representatives of the parties. 
Shri P, K, Bose, appearing for the management, did not press 
the preliminary objections raised In the written statement of 
the management that the present matter is not an industrial 
dispute as neither the workmen nor the union sponsoring 
their case ever raised any dispute with the management 
which is in issue in the present reference and hence the ref- 
erence is without jurisdiction and is bad in law. Con- 
sequently it is not necessary to discuss that point. 

17. Shri P. K, Bose merely pointed out certain discrepan- 
cies in the deposition of Bundi Ram Halwai, W.W.l and 
submitted that his testimony cannot be believed. Shri P. K. 
Bose submitted that Bundi Ram Halwai, W.W.l should 
have approached the Propritors of the colliery when the 
Manager had stopped him and other 54 concerned workmen 
from working in the colliery specially when he deposed that 
the Proprietors visited the colliery every two or three months. 
Shri P. K. Bose further contended that the assertion of W.W.l 
that the Manager of the colliery had stopped him and other 
workmen from working is not mentioned in the statement of 
the case which the workmen submitted before the Concilia- 
tion Authorities. I have given careful thought to the submis- 
sions made by Shri P. K. Bose but, in my opinion, the dis- 
crepancies pointed out by him in the testimony of Bundi Ram 
Halwai, W.W.l are not fatal to the case of the workmen. It 
must be remembered that Bundi Ram Halwai, W.W.l was 
making a statement before the Tribunal almost after 2 1/2 
years of the incident to Babulal Gope and he could rot be 
expected to be very exact. 

18. Shri P. K. Bose next submitted that the standing orders 
of the colliery are not mandatory in nature and it was not 
necessary for the colliery authorities to have sent individual 
notices to all the 55 workmen concerned asking them to re- 
port for their work. According to Shri P. K. Bose the manage^ 
ment had no ulterior motive to penalise the concerned work- 
men specially when their union was recognised by the colliery. 
There is no force in this contention. It has been admitted 
by Shri A. K. Banerjee, M.W.l that according to the standing 
orders of the colliery, if the workmen absented themselves for 
more than 10 days it would amount to misconduct and he 
further admitted that the management did not follow the 
procedure prescribed in paragraph 18 of the standing orders 
and that no charge-sheets were issued to the workmen and no 
explanations were called for from the workmen for their 
absence without intimation to the authorities, I have gone 
through the standing orders and I find that there is no provi- 
sion in the standing orders for displaying a notice on the 
Notice Board as stated by Shri A, K. Banerjee, M.W.l. Shri 
A. K. Banerjee, M.W.l has admitted that statu tory form ‘B* 
register is maintained in the colliery which contains the names 
and addresses and other particulars of all the concerned 
workmen. It has also been admitted that no letters of dismis- 
sal were issued to the workmen till the date of the deposition 
by Shri A. K. Banerjee, 

19. Shri Bund! Ram Halwai, W.W.l is one of the concern- 
ed workmen. There is no reason for me to disbelieve his 
testimony that he had approached the Manager of the col- 
liery for work after the incident to Babulal Gope but his at- 
tendance was not recorded by the Attendance Clerk. Bundi 
Ram Halwai, W.W.l. knows only Hindi and it is too much to 
expect that he would approach the Proprietors of the colliery 
after the Manager had told him that he would not be given 
work in the colliery. He denied that he and other workmen 
had stopped going to work voluntarily. 

20. The testimony of Bundi Ram Halwai, W.W.l has been 
corroborated by Shri H. M. Landey, W.W.2, Secretary of the 
Krantikary Koytda Mazdoor Sangh. 

21. The next contention of Shri P, K. Bose is that the con- 
cerned workmen themselves stopped doing their woik in the 
colliery with effect from 19-1-71 and the management was 
not responsible for the stoppage of work. It was contended by 
Shri Bose that if that had been the fact an issue should have 
been raised by the workmen before the Board of the Code of 
Discipline. It was contended by Shri Bose that the workmen 
absented themselves without obtaining leave from the mana- 
gement or without giving any intimation to it. It is difficult to 
imagine that in these hard days of unemployment a large 
number of workmen would have absented themselves from 
their respective work in the colliery without any reason, Ac- 


JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 2213 


cording to the management the concerned workmen absented 
themselves from their duties between 19-1-71 and 23-1-71 and 
a notice Is said to have been posted by the management on 
the Notice Board on 1-2-71 i.e, more than 10 days after the 
date of the absence of the workmen. Paragraph 18 of the 
standing orders deals with disciplinary action for misconduct 
and states that a workman may be suspended or fined or his 
increment may be stopped, or he may be demoted or dismis- 
sed without notice, if he is found guilty of misconduct and 
sub-paragraph (n) of paragraph 18 says that continuous ab- 
sence without permission and without satisfactory cause for 
more than ten days would be a misconduct. Even we assume 
that the workmen themselves absented from their work with- 
out intimation to the management no disciplinary action seems 
to have been taken against them as has been clearly admit- 
ted by Shri A. K. Banerjee, M. W. 1 No charge-sheets were 
served on the workmen who are said to have stopped work 
and no explanation was asked for from them. There is no 
provision in the standing orders of the colliery for posting a 
notice on the Notice Board as stated by M.W.l. If the work- 
men had themselves stopped from work, notices ought to have 
been issued to them and they should have been chargesheeted 
and a domestic enquiry should have been held. Addresses of 
all the workmen were known to the management because sta- 
tutory from ‘B’ register is admittedly maintained In he colliery 
but nothing of the kind was done. If the workmen had really 
absented themselves without having obtained leave or without 
having any intimation to the management, even though the 
conciliation proceedings were going on, the management could 
have taken action against the workmen under section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act with the express permission in 
writing of the authority before which the proceedings wore 
pending, 

22. It is not the case of the management, as it is not stated 
in its writen statemen that any one of the concerned workmen 
assaulted Shri Babulal Gope on 19-1-71. It has also been 
stated by M.W. 1 that the matter was not reported to the 
Police authorities by the management. We, however, find from 
a certified copy of the First Information Report which is dated 
19-1-71 that a complaint was lodged wih the Police Authori- 
ties with regard to the incident on 19-1-71 by Shri Sarvaject 
Singh, Labour Officer of the colliery. The First Information 
Report also contains names of some accused persons. The 
existence of the First Information Report lodged in respect 
of the incident which took place outside the colliery on 19-1- 
1971 was denied by M.W.l. It is therefore not possible to 
place reliance on his statement. The case of the management 
is that the workmen themselves stopped working in the col- 
liery with effect from 20-1-71. If the workmen had really ab- 
sented themselves from work, there are provisions in the 
standing orders of the colliery under which action could have 
been taken against the workmen by the management. It has 
been admitted by M.W.l that neither any cbargeshcet nor any 
letter was issued to the workmen regarding the stoppage of 
their work. According to the Supreme Court’s decision in Work- 
men Employed in B & C Mills, Madras and Management of 
B & C Mills, Madras, 1969 (19) F.L.R. P. 253, standing 
orders are part of statutory terms and condition of service 
between employer and employees and they govern the relation 
between he parties. 

23. Shri P. K. Bose contended that the present case is a 
case of abandonment of work by the workmen themselves 
and not stoppage of work by the authorities of the colliery. 
There is no force in this contention also. If the workmen in 
the persent reference had gone on leave and had been absent 
from 8 consecutive days without leave there could be possibly 
a case of abandonment of employment as per the decision of 
tho Supreme Court in Buckingham & Carnatic Co. Ltd., and 
Venkatlah and anoher reported in (1950 — 67) LS.C.L.T P. 6, 
In the instant case the workmen had not proceeded on leave 
and had not absented themselves for more than 8 days. The 
present dispute before me Is, therefore, clearly a case of stop- 
page of work by the management and is not a case of aban- 
donment of work by the workmen. Shri P. K. Bose, in sup- 
port of his contention, placed reliance on a decision of the 
Calcutta High Court in Bhaskar Mukherjee and another versus 
Nilmoni Nath, (1962-63) 23 F.J.R. P. 158 in which it was 
held as follows: — 

“If a servant wilfully absents himself from duty for a 
long period without giving notice to the employer, he 
cannot get his pay for the period of absence especial- 
ly if the absence la refereable to some act of dis- 
obedience. Such abstention from duty will operate 



[Part II — 


2214 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


as voluntary termination of service by the employee 
and no formal order of discharge on the part of the 
employer would be necessary"* 

In view of my findings above the decision of the learned 
Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court relief upon by Shrl 
P. K. Bose is not applicable to the facts of the instant case. 
Here the concerned workmen did not wilfully absent them- 
selves from duty for a long period without giving notice to 
the management. As has already been stated above, according 
to paragraph 18 of the standing orders of the colliery if the 
workmen had absented themselves from work without leave 
or intimation to the management their conduct would be a 
misconduct for which suitable action could be taken by the 
management. 

24. For the reasons mentioned above I hold that the work- 
men did not absent themselves from work but were stopped 
from working by the management and such action of the 
management was malafide since no disciplinary action was 
taken against the workmen by the management which could 
have been taken under paragraph 18 of the standing orders 
of the colliery. Action could also have been taken with the 
permission of the Conciliation Authorities under section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. Since no registered notices or 
notices even by ordinary post were sent to the concerned 
workmen individually asking them to report for their work, 
the conduct of the management must be held to be malafide 
(See decision of the Supreme Court in Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd., 
and their workmen 1966 (13) F.L.R. P. 65). 

25. For the reasons mentioned above It must be held that 
the action of the management in stopping the concerned 
workmen from their respective work with effect from the dates 
mentioned against their names in the schedule was not Justi- 
fied and the workmen must be deemed to have been in con- 
tinuous service of the colliery till the right, title and interest of 
the owners of the colliery vested absolutely in the Central 
Government under section 4 of the Coking Coal Mines 
(Nationalisation) Act, 1972 with effect from 1-5-1972, 

26. Now I come to the question of relief. Since the right, 
title and interest of the old management of the colliery ceased 
to exist with effect from 1-5-1972 and vested in the Central 
Government and since the workmen have been held to have 
continued in their service, it is only the Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd., which can reinstate them in service. 

27. Shri S. S. Mukharjee, appearing for Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd., contended that on the date the industrial dispute is 
said to have arisen, there was no relationship of employer 
and employees between the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., and 
the workmen and hence the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., are 
not concerned with the dispute, Shri Mukherjec drew my 
attention to section 9 of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationali- 
sation) Act, 1972, the relevant portion of which runs as 
follows: — 

"9(1) Eveiy liability of the owner, agent, manager, or 
managing contractor of a coking coal mine or coke 
oven plant, in relation to any period prior to the 
appointed day, shall be the liability of such owner, 
agent, manager or managing contractor, as the case 
may be, and shall be enforceable against him and 
not against the Central Government or the Gov- 
ernment Company 

(a) 

(b) no award, decree or order of any court, tribunal 
or other authority in relation to any coking coal 
mine or coke oven plant passed after the appoint- 
ed day, but in relation to any matter, claim or dis- 
pute which arose before that day, shall be enforce- 
able against the Central Government or the Gov- 
ernment Company; 

(c) no liability for the contravention of any provision 

of law for the time being in force, made before 
the appointed day, shall be enforceable against the 
Central Government or the Government Com- 
pany” 

28. It may be noted that there is no provision in section 
9 quoted above against making of an award. 


29. The Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., being the successor in 
interest of the South Jharia Colliery, on the principle laid 
down by the Supreme Court in Bihar State Road Transport 
Corporation and State of Bihar and another (reported in 
1970 (II) L.L.J. P.138) necessary direction for reinstate- 
ment and payment of back wages shall have to be passed 
against the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.,, The facts of the case 
before the Supreme Court just cited above were as follows: 
"The Government of Bihar was conducting through one of 
its departments, called the Rajya Transport Authority, an 
undertaking of road transport in the State. The concerned 
workman was appointed on 27-7-56 by the said authority. 
On April 20, 1959, the State Government set up as from 
May, 1, 1959 a Corporation known as Bihar State Road 
Transport Corporation to exercise all the powers and per- 
form all the functions which were till then being exercised 
and performed by the Rajya Transport Authority. The said 
authority passed an order dated February 8, 1959 terminat- 
ing the services of the concerned workman. An industrial 
dispute having been raised, it was referred to the Labour 
Court by an order dated February 24, 1961, impleading the 
Corporation as one of the parties to the reference. The 
Labour Court held that the order of dismissal was not 
justified and concluded that the concerned workman was 
deemed to have continued in the service of Rajya Transport 
and thereafter of the Corporation as the successor in title 
of the Rajya Transport and, on this basis, directed the 
Corporation to reinstate the concerned workman in his ser- 
vice and pay compensation from February to September, 
1959. The Corporation, thereupon, filed an application under 
Article 226 of the constitution before the Patna High Court 
contending inter-alia, that the services of the concerned 
workman, having been terminated before the Corporation 
was not set up, his remedy lay against the Rajya Transport 
and not against the Corporation. The Writ petition was 
rejected by the Patna High Court. On appeal the Supreme 
Court substantially upheld the decision of the Labour Court, 
The Supreme Court treated the Corporation as the successor 
In interest of the Rajya Transport authority and held that 
the concerned workmen, in the absence of any valid termi- 
nation of his service, continued to be in the service of the 
Corporation since May 1, 1969 and that therefore, the Cor- 
poration was bound to pay his wages with all emoluments 
from May 1, 1959. The Supreme Court further held that for 
the period from February to April 1959 the Rajya Transport 
Authority was liable to pay his wages and other emoluments, 
but the Corporation as successor-in-interest of the said au- 
thority became liable to pay wages for the period from Feb- 
ruary to April, 1959 and not from February to September, 
1959 as directed by the Labour Court. 


30. Shri S. S. Mukherjec tried to distinguish the case of 
Bihar State Road Transport by contending that in that case 
Rajya Traasport and the Corporation set up by the Bihar 
Government were the limbs of the same authority and hence 
that decision is distinguishable. I am afraid, I cannot agree 
to this contention. The nrincfple of law laid down by the 
Supreme Court in the case of Bihar State Road Transport 
Corporation is fully applicable in the instant case. The right, 
title and Interest of South Jharia Colliery have vested In 
the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., with effect from 1st May, 1972 
by virtue of section 4 of the Coking Coal Mines (Nationa- 
lisation) Act, 1972. Section 17(1) of the said Act lays down 
that every person who Is a workman within the meaning 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and has been. Imme- 
diately before the 1st of May, 1972 in the employment of a 
coking coal mine shall become on and from the appointed 
day an employee of the Government company. In the pre- 
sent case, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., in which the right, title 
and interest of the colliery have vested and the workmen shall 
hold service in the mine on the same terms and conditions 
and with the same rights to pension, gratuity, and other 
matters as would have been admissible to them if the rights 
in respect of such a mine had not vested in the Government 
company. As It has been found by me that the workmen 
had been stopped from working in the colliery illegally by 
the old management, the concerned workmen continued and 
still continue to be in service of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., 
since 1st May, 1972 und, therefore, the Bharat Coking Coal 
Ltd., is bound to pay their wages Including all the emolu- 
ments to which they are entitled as from 1-5-72, For the 
period from the date of stoppage of work i.e. 19-1-71 to 
23-1-71 till 30-4-72, South Jharia Colliery are liable to pay 
the wages of the workmen and other emoluments to which 



Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, I973/J YAISTHA 26, 1895 2215 


they are entitled. The Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., as succes- 
sor in interest of the said colliery also became liable to 
pay the said wages from 20-1-71 to 30-4-72 vide 1970 (II) 
L.L.J. P. 138. 

31. I accordingly make the following award; — 

The action of the management of South Jharui Colliery, 
Post Office Jhavia, District Dhanbad, in stopping from work 
the concerned 55 workmen with effect from the dates mem 
tioned against their names was not justified. The said work- 
men are to be reinstated with continuity of service by the 
management for the time being i.e. by the Bharat Coking 
Coal Ltd., and the said company shall bo liable to pay 
their wages and other emoluments with effect from 1-5-72. 
The concerned workmen are also entitled to get their back 
wages from 19-1-71 till 30-4-72 and the South Jharia Col- 
liery and Bharat Coking Coal Ltd., are jointly and severally 
liable to pay the same to the workmen concerned. 

32. Let a copy of this award be forwarded to the Central 
Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

D. D. SETH, Presiding Officer 
(No , L-20 1 2/82/7 1 -LRII) 

TTo ’ITT ^ 1742 

ftzTfWf TfV, f^PTTT qfci Iff 

qru mfspTT, ffffrriT trt fam jjtfwFjr TTrf tr^ 

mr. Y ftqn FfiTffFFT, 

1 947 ( 1947 *TT 14) Tf fJKT 1 0-TT ^ 3WTT ( l) % 3TOff % 
TFJTTFT ff fata n ^ Tl < 9TTT dtTt fTTTT tY d U 4 Tf'TTl % qTET- 
FPJ T faff PiSfafl TTY TT TTTR ■TT f^PTT ^ TrVT TtH FTSTPlff TCIT 
^ ffr qfa f^ht *Y ^ t; 

vd;, FT, drti FfMffTT UTTT 1 Q-^> ®fY FTUTTT (3) ^ 
OTm $ if, FOTT ^ 7RTT qY, 

ift ^ 28 1973 **Y Dr^rr «n, ffTrara *rdY %\ 

(wm) 

(tfWw ft’TTT STfafa^tT, 19 47 HTTT 10-^ ^ W#t) 

^ »rw 

ftratsuft vr Hfnfaftrw ottf <sft ^rarff *rra, 'fto fo t 

HTfo VftpFTT — 

iftPtt, rtrt wr JTTTtw, 

dTTTffT I 

*r?f fffaF, 

tee <mw i 

Twrrf ^ «ffT ft^rfafanr tfaftfrur fame ^ nft rnro 

ffr (^Yt), fert % FRTFTff % fan 

FrfTSTTT ffffW *fiTY Tt ^FTTT IT 4 / TTT 

i faum ttPT fatro dTr *ftr TiYfaTr, m- 

drsr fa^T d 

ffTT fipftfTd 

dTWR 

^ 1 1 ^ ? dfd Ijf 

Ut fer TrtT TT 


( 2 ) fwd % TT fdTFT 1. tqrddFJ FTTf^dT d^TTITT 

’PTddffTd TdTTd dT ’TFTT, fm ^fviTK’K 

FFFT dT TFT TT>r TdT uj 

1 1 

( 3) dhr Td mFPTd wtf- dtu TTdfTRT 

TTTT ITT 5rfdfdfHdT ^FTT dT^rrr ¥FTT fdFF dtftTdTT- 

fftdtTWTdTff JT 

( 1) Tdtfdd $ fdtfrfcr 16,000 (trfF ?m frn 

d^WITT «rt Jd - tfw mrdtTIdT ^ 35 TTOK 

fdTtfdd l 

(5) fddPT ITF 5T^rrfdff FT 35 
HWr^FT: Stdrfdd diT 
1 0 nmfdd dddT I 

(rpT ^ *TFR ^ tfd- UtTfFT dT fdfiTTffff TT TO 
®TT ^PlT 1 TOTFT OTTT TdT3 dtd FFT ^ TT 

itfE WT ^ ^ffdT ^ TTFFfTT TFT fdf^Cl fTF 

^TdT dTd OT I ^ dfvRT TTFTdftT % vffdT TffT^ dlft folT 
wrr rfr TTT^«iff % far* fwr ttt: $ stfptt ffT 

FrsqFFf ^ qrrMtd ttY Tt #t) i 

T ^FTTWT 

fTTaVsr^t tt sffMfffed ttY tpT 5 : /-*rr*T(V ^T^rnt 

5TRtddT, dFdTfT 

T^WTTt TT !Tfdfdfh?d TTYdTir 5 : l-^W ft? 

2-5-73 

rT?T 

dfu STFftddT, dddffT 

TtdT I 

HTWt 

L ft?, 

ifuftfr wff fret MBiVshu, dwmi t^t i 

2. I 

(FWTffF-420 12^207-2 ^TTTo-iii) 
ORDER 

SO 1742 ;— Whereas an industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to Beas Dam Pioject, Talwara and 
its workmen represented by Workers Union, Beas Dam Projct, 
Talwara Township, District Hoshiarpur 

And, whereas the said employers and workmen have, by a 
written agreement, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section 
(1) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 14 of 
1947), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration by the person 
acetified therein, and a copy ot the said arbitration agreement 
has been forwarded to the Central Government, 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-scclion (3) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 
28th May, 1973 

AGREEMENT 

Under Section 10-A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 
BETWEEN 

Name of the Parties Repres- Sh. Sardari Lai, PSEI; Exccu- 
enting Employer tivc Engineer-Personnel, 

Beas Dam Project, Talwara 


31 G of T/73— 12 



2216 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II- 


R;prci:ating Workmen Shri Daulat Singh Chauhan, 

General Secretary, Workers 
Union, Beas Dam, Talwara 
Township 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following 
Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri S-N- Mohanty, 
Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi 


(i) Specific matters in dis- 
pute 


(ii) Details of the parties to 
the dispute including 
the name and address 
of the establishment or 
undertaking l nvo 1 v c d 


"Whether the Workmen em- 
ployed in Fire Fighting 
SeiVice at the Beas Dam 
Project, Talwara, District 
Hoshiarpur arc entitled to 
the free supply of “Uniforms? 
If so, at what scale and 
from what date?’ 1 

1 Beas Dam Project, Talwara 
Township, District Hoshiar 
pur 


#rpr TOtE % mvmn % TO TOTOr «FMT to TOr % 
TOt^ TOTT TO ^TO ttttot 

set, m, TOfTOr trirr io-*r wrm (j) 

% stTOt % ^*rcrr T, TOt totoe tbi tot 

3ft 2b TO 197 3 PHT TT, rmTO TOfft % l 

(tot) 

(TOftlTO fwr TOfTOr, 1947 TOT 1 % *TO) 

TO 

qwTOf RTR 

fTOTO rr TOfaftw to^ TO ^ toTOt ttb, rpto £o 

’trrfo qrrftr, ftefttu TOTOt, 
ptm i 

TOTO qrr qfTOTOr wt 3 TO eft TOr TO qkrr, to 

TOft, ^mr 


(iii) Name of the Union, if Workers Union, Beas Dam 
any representing the Project, Talwara Township, 
workman in question District Hoshiarpur 

(iv) Total number of Workmen 1 6000 (Only 35 workmen are 

employed in the under- employed at the Project 
taking affected in Fjre Fighting Ser\ice) 

(v) Estimated number of 35 
workmen affected or like- 
ly to be affected by the 
dispute 

(We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall 
be binding on us. The arbitrator shall make his award within 
a period of throe months or within such further time as is exten- 
ded by mutual agreement between us in writing In case the 
award is not made within the period aforementioned, the referen- 
ce to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and We shall 
be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration) 


Signatures of the parties 
Representing Employers Sd/-Sardari Lai 

Executive Engineer -Personnel, 

Beas Dam Project, Talwara, 

Representing woerkmen Sd/-Daulat Singh Chauhan 

2/5/73 

General Secretary, workers Union, 
Beas Dam Project Tolwara Township, 


*mr, teethst i 

WPTrf % TO fTOfTOTT TOtfw fTTK fW, 

wm ’roTTfi (%TOr), TOrt i ^ rmrro ^ TO TOprnj 


TOTO TT% TT TT 1 T fro 
( 1 ) fTOfor farre TOt fTOT 


(2) Ittpt *7 q$rqnrt q»r 

ffTOT, fTOf TO- 

9T TT TOHT TT TOT *ftT 
Terr TOTOr $; i 

(3) TO TO 5HRTO TO- 

TTTT TT Hldld fbcT qTTT 
TTT 


TO $ * — 

"*TR- TO StTOrT, 
fiTO TOTOTT9T T? TO 
^ TOTOI ^ TO qrt 

28-4-1 972 TOT t ^PSrTO 
TOt TO EffETf TO 
6-1 1-1 972 fT TO TO & 

TO $fwr it TO TO 
eTOTO TO TO TOTtfaTT 

? qPf TO 31? bti'M 

^cTb % $ l” 

1 . tot TO TOTOt, m*rji 

TOTT I 

2. p -4fH e ^ 9 u , vtir 

TTTTTOT 'TTTTST | 

TOT rrfTO, TOT TO JTT-* 
TtTOT, TWTT TEET, fjlM I 

TOtoto i 


Witnesses. 

1. Sd/- uldip Singh, 

Personnel Officer, Beas Dam Project, Tolwara Township. 

2. Kir nSoni. 

No. U 42012/20/721 IR IIT 


(4) TmTO toht ^ TTOTO 16000 
TOTOt to 1 

(5) fTO* 5 TTT TOtt tt 1 
^4TTTO: TMtfm TO TO 
*fr4Tm ^ snTOTO TOrt 


TO?r 

Ti ftTO s 1973 

Tr° ®rr° 1743 m: tot TO TOTOtt, TtETOi b 
fTOTO xfiT ^ TO, fTOrr qftBrfTO TOt 

TOT TO TOTOT TOTIfT TtffT rrq: fqTTT fTOrET 

t 1 

iqk; tTTT: fWtTO xfrr fTOiA ^ tfWfrfnT fTOnt TO - - 

pTW ; 1947 ( 1947 TT 14) 5TTTT 1 Q-T Th' TWIT (l) 

^ ^rTOf ^ PtPstt tot 5 ttt Ftto Tf w 2 f 


(TO tot qfr TO tt TTO^t ?rrr tt mj 

*FT TOf 1 WT TOTT TTEf TO RTTT qm?iTTO qT FTE 

^frr tpet % ^ ■tftTf ^fr yTO TnTTfTq? fTOrr tot htt 
TOirr ^tpt, TO i TO ^ TOft ^mEiTOr % r nFn: fTO 

t^rnTT tipteer % TO ^ TO 

^ TO wTO toTO vT tt?t^ TO) i 

TOtTO TOf^fTO toTO ^ttt 

^ TO TOTO TOTO — tTOt yqpr 

TO TOittt, frtoi i 



2217 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

it *t fafafam to y fw Vterr 

2 / 5/73 

Ryr ^farr fffro, 

*ro to mNito, wrorfr 1 

^TT^fT: — 

i- *? fair, ^Tftr^T srfarrrft, eto art«r TOtTO, *n^r¥T 

1 

2 . ^froTfafa 

(fa° 17^-4201 2/10/73^0 WT.o III] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8 th Juno, 1973 

S.O. 1743,— Whereas an industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to Boas Dam Project Talwara and Its 
workmen represented by Workers Union, Beas Dam Project, 
Talwara- 


: JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


(We further agree that the decision of the Aibitrator shall 
bo bin ling on us* The arbitrator shall make his award within 
a period of three months or within such further time as is exten- 
ded by mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the 
award is not made within the period aforementioned, the refere- 
nce to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we 
shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration). 

Signature of the parties 

Representing Employers Sd ./- SARDARI LAL 

Executive Engineer- Personnel, 

Boas Dam Project, Talwara 

Representing Workmen Sd -/- DAULAUSINGH CHAUhAN 

2-5-73 

General Secretary, Workers Union, 
Beas Dam Project, Talwara 

Witnesses 

1 Sd-/- Kuldip Singh, 

Personnel Officer, Beas Dam 
Project, Talwara Township. 

2 Sd-AKiran SonJ. 

[No.L-42012/19/73/LRlll] 


And, whereas the said employers and workmen have, by 
a written agreement, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section 
(1) of section 10A of th; Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbritaUon by the nerson 
specified therein, and a copy of the said arbitration agreement 
has been forwarded to the Central Government. 

Now therefore, in pursuance of sub-scction (3) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 
26th May, 1973* 


AGREEMENT 

Under Section 10 -A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 
BETWEEN 

Name oF the Parties. 

Representing Employer: Sh. Sardari Lai, PSET Execu- 

tive Engineer - Personnel, 
Beas Dam Project, Talwara. 

Representing Workmen: Sh- Daulat Singh Chauhan, 

General Secretary Workers 
Union, Bcos Dam, Talwar 
Township. 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following 
Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri Shvam Krishna, 
Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Bareilly) 

(i) Specific matters in dis- ‘‘Whether the actions of the 
P ute ' Management of Beas Dam 


(ii) Details of the Parties to 
the dispute including the 
name and address of the 
establishment or under- 
taking involved. 


Project, Talwara, District 
Hoshiarpur in dismissing 
Shri Prabhu Ram, Gate man 
from service with effect from 
28-4- J 972 and subsequtenly 
appointing him a fresh in the 
same capacity with effect 
from 6-1 1-1972 are legal 
and justified? If not to vvhat 
relief is he entitled?” 

1 Beas Dam Project, Talwara 
Township. 

2. Workers Union, Beas Dam 
Project , Talwara. 


(iii) Name of the Union, if Workers Union, Beas Dam 
any, representing the Project, Talwara Township 
workmen in question* District Hoshiarpur 

(iv) Total number of work- 16000 

men employed in the 

undertaking affected . 


(v, Estimated number 01 1 

workmen affected or 

likely to be affected by 
the dispute- 


VTo *TTo 1744 . — § Tpsnj 

infarct % afar, srfaftfa** fam tot *n, 

tot tott ft, mfr xrhftPHT faro faron ft, 

xflr ^pt: tot xffa % tfWrftpf faro srfa- 

Pm, 1947 (1947 *fTT 14 ) UTTT 10-^7 (l) 

totoT % xpht <<ji *fff*r faf5g-?r ^rren: tot ^ faro 

Afrpi «qfb-7 % mtTOTff % faff fa^ffar ^ ^ f^rqT ft 

TO7 intTOT TOT *Ffff^ JTfa WWK ^ ^ *1$ ft, 

w., wr, tot xrfuPpT n qft mrj lo-T *rf 73wtr ( 3 ) % 
if, 4rrjffa TOTH TOT 'FTR Tf, iff 

28 1973 vr fw «TT, ff'd^riKT SPRlffaT TOTf ft I 

( to ) 

(rffalfw faTO ^fafTO, 1947 ffRT 1 0-^T % Tfafa) 

^ jfaf 

WTTft ¥ TO 

fttftnvf VT S Tfafafa* WTO TO FTTHC TOT faf, TOT fafffafa 

srmrRt, ffarfa?rTO 

% tot 

OnrW wsrr i 

wrnnrf sfafafa tot toot to faro fav[, to 

fffaT, tot ttto to, 

ffTO 1 

frofafapr xfWfPrrr faro ^fo ?jt* 

twri tjt fft frot % % faff ffFr^sm- 

fatfaff tt ! pttt fror wr ft i 

( 1 ) farnr tot faro If ™ jnrsr aftt to ^ 

ffm fay m q?far 

TOff 1971 % to 

1971 fffcfat fWt 

^ 

ff ttTto ^rtrrf 



2218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


[Part II — 


(2) % 'TWKt *TT 

faTRT ; fafpt TT 


nrwtPrr ^ rft 

fw iFjtfNr nft TU 

|? ,J 

1. VTTT^T Riptf !iw 

TWT I 


?m ®rr tpt rfk ttt 

^fwiftRTt I 

(3) nft Ttf TO WFRT 
®|hW[T| StLlflfafq ^Trff 
$t ?ft wtt ^mr 1 

( 4) wMm SI f^RTtfVr 

T^tnrt ttw 1 

( 5) fw* irtr snnf^T *rr 

Ttftfaw qr% 

W^TTt HIHk OTTT I 

57? wxn, tft $ f=r nsriR *rr Wwr ?m <n wtb 

*TK #RTT I 

w <frrc: tfU tttct ^ * km fir tt vu *m 

% tfffn: *ft ^rf*: qufrftr Mm am wrr wr, 

^TT I qfa *$ *fa*T *fT*TPTfa % tffrpr ff$T fm fft 

*n^wi % far* fwr ftt *q ?ft rt^tt tfh: ^ irrww 

% f$B', ®h *s\ I 

*wn^f % ^fmwT 


2 wr vi^.i'i trtjt *hr, 

*FFT ^PWT I 

'T^TK ^R*5l H ffq, H J M' 

1 

900 


5: 

5/ s/73 

vi nrfaWww *rra 

W 5/5/73 

^wrft tt jrfirftfwrjmr md 

HTWl 


1. ?. ^0 tfrflr 


2. ^ ^ AW I 


[tfo q^r-420 1 2/17/7 3-TT7TO ¥TRo HI] 


ORDER 

S.O* 1744*—' Whoroas an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to Bhakra Management Board and its 
workmen represented by Nangal Bhakra Mazdoor Sangh, 
Nangal Township. 

And, wheroas the said omployors and workmen have* by a 
written agreement, in puisuance of the provisions of sub-scction 
(1) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration by the 
person specified therein, and a copy of the said arbitration 
agreement has been forwarded to the Central Government, 

New, therefore, in pursuance of sub-scction (3) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 
28 th May, 1973. 


AGREEMENT 

Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1948 
BETWEEN 


Name of the parties. 

Representing employers : Sardar Charan Singh, 

Sub Divisional Officer, PA to 
Superintendent Workshop, 
Nangal Workshop, 

Representing workmen : $ardar Ram Kishan s i n eN 

General Secretary Nangal Bhakra 
Mazdoor S*ngh, Nangai, 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following 
Industrial dispute to the arbitration of Shri TT. Tayade, Dy. 
Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) , New Delhi. 


(i) Specific matter in “Whether the action of the 

dispute ; management of Nangal Work- 

shop of Bhakra Management 
Board Nangal Township in 
promoting Shri Sucha Singh 
as Electrician Grade II with 
effect from 1st August, 1971 
instead of 1st Eebruary, 1971 
is legal and justified ? If not 
to what relief is he entitled?” 


(ii) Details of the parties 1. Bhakra Management Board, 
to the dispute including Nangal Township, 
the name and address of 2. Nangal Bhakra Mazdoor 
the Establishment or Sangh, Nangal Township, 
undertaking involved. 


(iii) Name of the Union Nangal Bhakia Mazdoor Sangh, 
if any representing the Nangal Township, 
workmen in question. 


(iv) Total number of work- 900 
men employed in the 
undertaking affected. 


(v) Estimated number of 1 
workmon affected or 
likely to be affected by 
the dispute. 


We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrate shall 
be binding on us. 


The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of thiee 
months or within such further time as is extended by mutual 
agreement between us in writing. In case the award is not 
made within the period aforementioned the rcfeience to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and ve shall 
be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 

Signature of the Parties. 

Sd /- Illegible 5/5/73 
Representing employer. 

Sd/- Illegible 5/5/73 
Representing workmen : 

Witnesses : 

1. Sd/- K, Soni. 

2. Sd/- Babu Lai, 

[No. L. 42012/17/73/LR III] 

VTo WTo 174 5 . — *T 5 T; TO JIRffcHT 

friN^f sftr wurf % sffar, Mm srtmr 

^f^T, ^mr arhsr smiWfi, hwt twt ^tctt tftefb 

fW fWTET £ ; 

4 ‘T 0 

Mo* 1947(1947^14)^ erm 1 o-^ ^ ^itrro 

( 1 ) % tpp Mm tttt frrK 

% Rpi fMfftRT ^ TT ^TR 
WX f^PTT I ’tflr OTT TTTt^tTR- ^,rjj ^ inp sffir 

’Wt *lt ^ I 

, SR, WT ^ 10-^ *f?t ^TUTTT (3) 

% OTFtn ^ THTR j T^TT 

vt, ifr 28 ^ 1973 mMn «tt, 

1 1 



2219 


Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


vxn 


HtrfT:— 


(sfrpftfirr Rt*t* ^ftrfnrnr, 1973 «n^rT 10 -v wtfta) 

TO 


TSTTPY % TFT : 


fWrTOr tt TO fMTO*TOTO MY strwrO to <fYoiitfotoTO o 

^MYI^ftt— ' 'ftPt'F ^7 rt 
TO srrTOrr, ^ 1 

wft ft TOfrfTO to* TO MY TOtt fe, TOt^, toTOt, 

fn F* rrfh ^ *t, *4~ft tr, 

fTsti I 

toto* % TO ^TOTOr TOrfw Et^ctt Ft MY rT^oir^o 
TOTO TOTFT T? fTOY n&qTTT % TO 


Od^dlXT TOTO TOT FT FTIT 

1 fTOfre fFFPT tttt fTOr . 


(2) fFFnr *F f^tfttT ft fFFTT 

fjl ’M 4 JR^T-TT TFEM FT 

m ft to 5 cftr ttt r *ft 
^rf^’H Ri d i£ 1 

(3) TO fiR totf ftTOct 

'FT TOuTfERF TOTT ft Hr 
WT TO l 

(4) ottTO to if TOYTO 
■r 4 °r ifr *?if 3pr fmt 1 

(5) fFTOTOTTOfaroTTO- 

TOTO TO F^FTT* 
fY mwfMn swr i 


fa Ml 4 IM I ?T : 

"tot tot TO ftTOft tpttot 
FTST TOt fftfcfTT’jT F 
TOTO *tft M* TO F?T, TOY 
’FMFT Ft 27-3-1972 fT 
TO spTOr TOt TO TTT% 
TETTF 18-11-1972 ft 

5F: ftk TO if 

frRFT TOf FT TOftITO t*T 
TO toTOf £ ? TO ^ eft 
wi T fTO wTO "Ft fpto 

t 1 ” 

1 zjfTOr, TOT TO ittMt- 
frt, ^T^rfr, ftft, fTO 

F^TTO^ I 

2 TOT TO TOTOl, TOTT^T 
Dttt TfrfTOrjr 1 

»J\TTU 5FTTT TO TTOFFb 

ATOyr 1 

1C000 

1 


(FT w , tot MY FTT* £ fr ^ f^dkro FT qr ’TT^TT 
'FT TO I TTTOT STTTT TO? TO TO # FTTlTO FT TO TO TOT % 
TOx qft ^ttT TO qTTOfer priw TOT to st^rtt to, 
TO I TO yr TOrt frttTO % TOrc tot fTO ^rm 

?Y JTTTOFFT^ % Pi 1 -.; frT^T TOT.‘ T^ THTFT ?f)T ?!R TT ?TT52TTRTJ 
fflV ^ 1 ci Ml I FTT Ktif ) I 

'TwrrJ t 5T?rreffT 

fTOrot ^t ^fTOftRT tot tot tt: TrwtT ^TTvT, to + 1-0 ^fTfTqr ; 

'FTtT'F I H sriH STPTlRTr, 

rfTTTTT I 

i FT TOfrfTO ftt ^krr fcr^ MYto. 

2 - 5-73 

hfrTto FfTOr, 

TO TOfaHT, 

TTOTT TOT l 


'ftFw ^t^rY tot TO <toto • 

2, fror TOY 


[?fo 42012/i8/73TO°Snro III] 
^ ott TO* 


ORDER 

S. O. 1 745:— -Whereas an iodustrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to Beas Dam Project Talwara and its 
workmen represented by Workers Union, Beas Dam Project 
Talwara Township. 

And, whereas the said employers and workmen have, by a 
wrhten agreement, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section 
(1) of section fOA ot the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration by the 
person specified therein, and a copy of the said arbitration 
agreement has been forwarded to the Central Government. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 
28th May, 1973. 


AGREEMENT 

Under section JO-A of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 
BETWEEN 


Name of the parties. 

Representing Employer: Sh. Sardari Lal-PSEI Executive 

Engineer -Personnel Boas Dam 
Project, Talwara. 

Representing Workmen : Sh. Daulat Singh, Chauhan, 

General Secretary, Workers 
Union, Beas Dam, Talwara 
Township. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following 

Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri S. N, Mohanly, 

Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi, 

(i) Specific matters in “whether the actions of the 

dispute. Management of Beas Dam 

Project, Talwara, District 
Hoshiarpur in dismissing Shri 
Brahm Dutt, Loco Driver from 
service with oflect from 27-3-72 
and subsequently appointing 
him afresh with effect from 
18-11-1972 on the same capa- 
city are legal and justified? 
If not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled ? 


(ii) Details of the parties 1. Workers Union, Beas Dam 
to the dispute including Project, Talwara Township 
the name and address District Hoshiarpur. 
of the establishment or 
undertaking involved. 

2. Beas Dam Project, Talwara, 
District Hoshiarpur. 


(iii) Names of the Union, Workers Union, Beas Dam Pro- 
if any representing the jeet, Talwara. 
workmen in question. 


(iv) Total number of work- 16000. 

men employed in the 

undertaking affected. 

(v) Estimated number of 1 

workmon affected for 

likely to be affoctcd by the 
dispute. 

(We further agree that decision of the Arbitrator shall be 
binding on us. The arbitrator shall make his award within a 
period of three months or within such further time as extended 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II 


by mutual agreement between us in writing* In case the 
award is not made within the period aforementioned, the 
reference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and 
we shall be fico to negotiate for fiesh arbitration)* 

Signature of the parties, 

Representing Employers. Sd/- 

SARDARILAL 
Executive Engineer 
Personnel, Beas Dam Project, Talwara. 

Representing Workmen: Sd/- 

DAULAT SINGH CHAUIIAN 

2/5/73 

General Secretary 
Workers Union, Bca* Dam 
Project, Talwara Township. 

Witnesses. 

1. Sd/- Kuldip Singh 

Person nol Officer, Beas Dam, Talwara. 

2. Sd/- Kiran Soni, 

[No. L. 420 1 2/ 1 8/73/UR IJ 1 ] 

VT° tTD 17 46 — TT ^TRT TTU TfaUTTr, TM4N5T t 
faMDfai Mk 't'H'ti i f i Yr Mfa, Ur"«pt srfafafafT 

fam 1 1 

tfk fafarU rfk RfanY M ^rV^ftfjT^fr fanT Tfa 

ffafR 1947 (19 17 Tf 14) MV ART 1 CH> MY tJUJRT ( l) 

^ V*\ if *FTR frRr TTT far IT MV 

3Tfa Yr Y^ fa<T faYftfR TT TRR 

TT fan & tfk ^TT niRTWr E FTR MV rr^ srfa Mfafa TTFFR 

MV MMY Trf ft I 

*r=r, MY yRT lu-T MV twttt ( 3 ) M 

M STfRUT M, R^fa RTR ^7T I FTTC Mb 

28 1973 Ml fan *TT, Ut^^rt Wlffa *FtMV ft I 

tttt 

(*ffafw fq^rnr nfabm, 1947 MY urt hff M toPt) 

M win 

WT | % TFT 

fafaMt tt MbikfaT Rfa faY MY hftrY MV 0 unfa o 

Wfa|(V *5jYfaR ERfaF 
TTT 5rrrff7RT, WTARl I 

wmi fafarfar ufa far *MV i\m fa^ nfar, 

nlTr jjIttt, un»r srt«r, 

T<?WyT 1 

mft M Mfa Tf^'T sftertfaF farK MV *ifr ek^Yo htts, 

(^irYT) , T# fafaY % M faF tr^THT faffa 

afar ?rr *Fm fan wr ft , 

1 * fafafa^ farrr irn f*m ‘fan ntr nqurn, ern^m Yt 

mv Mr MY nn, 

^^7TT FF2T 5-5-19 72 ?f 

FTI F *fr?>T Ml T 

1 8-1 M 972 

^PT W: M OTt |f?TTT M f TJ^T 

Mir 

TTmrr^r | ? qfr ^ 

?fr ^R-^pr f^rr ^?frT ^ 


( 2) fRTU t q-fVRFT^ ?FT iTTTOT 1. ^ITF RT mUm, I 

f^RT^ **rm rt 2 ^ srhr 

ttrt w ttf MYc qpfT Mr d^tyr 1 
Hf^TfrTW ^ I 

( 3) ^rPr Mrf 51 ^^ w^rt *Tftr ^fRcR ttet 

*ft 5rfhfrftp«r fr ^fr trtt i 

RFTT TIFr 

(4) Wlfaw iWJ M 16,0 00 

^iH'fJKT ^fY TR WTT I 

( 5 ) f»rw trt twtIMtt in 1 

TFTFR Wlf^T pft^ ^T^T 

MY M 1 T- fif^TrT I I 

(?ffr it?; ^r MY S fa toi«t ?rr r 

5FTT I TOTRT ?T*T*TT TTTT HYt WT MY TT^Tl TftJ Mk FRT M MYr 
MY ?prk MY^ TTRrk^ fMfw rh: ttttt ^tr, M^r i qfr 

=Tfa^ RFtMM Yt MYdT TTr^ hMl fan ^TTdT dt nTSTP-Tn % fnn faf%¥T 
rt 75mrnT Mk nn nr^RTfr M f^-n ^rdMYd 'ftM Mr iw 
jn# 1 

TiiffTTk % pRdTfiR 

faftifar r ?n% . ?:o-nwfr nm, Rifakr 

MMYfaR, ufati ^rm rt 
JTfasmr, n^TTffT I 

rttr) ^ff 5rfnhfa a r i ftt tt% . jfcf-Mrnd fa? it?t nfaA, 

^■faT iffard Eirr^ ^rn mfa- 

'JPTT, dT^FTT, I 

HTtfa 

1 £o-$*r£TT fa?, *FffaT ?TfaFTrt TFT TTITfT I 

2 ^o-fknr MYMY 1 

[Ho TTrT 4201 1/1 5/73-^° STRo mj 
ORDER 

S. O, 1746. — Whereas ati industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to Beas Dam Project ( Talwara and 
its workmen represented by Workers Union, Beas Dam Pro- 
ject, Talwara Township* 

And, whereas the said employers and workmen have, by 
a written agreement, in pursuance of the provisions of sub- 
section(I) 01 section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947) agreed to refer tho said dispute to arbitration by 
the person specified therein, and a copy of the said arbitration 
agreement has been forwarded to tho Central Government. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section(3) of section 
10A of the said Act, the Central Government hereby publishes 
the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on 
tho 28th May, 1973. 

AGREEMENT 

Under Section 10-A of the Industrial Dispute Act 1947 
BETWEEN 

Name of the parties. 

Representing Employer. Shri Sardan Lai PSEI, Execu- 
tive Engineer- Personnel Beas 
Dam Project, Talwara. 

Representing Workmen : Shri Daulat Singh Chauhan, Gene- 

ral Secretary, Workers Union, 
Beas Dam, Talwara Township* 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the Following 
Industrial Dispute to the Arbitration of Shri T.T. Tayade, 
Deputy Chief Labour^Commissioner (Ccntial). 

New Delhi. 

(i) Specific matters in “Whether the actions of the 

dispute. Management ol Beas Dam 

Project, Talwara in dismissing 
Shri Jamua Dass, Station 



SEC'. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZE1JE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, L973/JYAISTHA 2t>, 1895 2221 


Master from service with elTcct 
from 5.5.1972 and subsequently 
appointing him afresh in the 
same capacity with effect from 
18*1 1-1972 are leagl and justi- 
fied? If not, to what relief 
the workman is entitled ?" . 


(ii) Details of the parlies 
to the dispute including, 
the name of and address 
of the establishment or 
undertaking involved. 

(iii) Name of the Union, if 
any repio renting the 
workmen in question. 

(iv) Total number of work- 
men employed in the 
undertaking affected. 

(V) Fsti mated number of 
workmen affected or 
likely to be affected by 
the dispute. 


1. Beas Dam Project, Talwara. 

2. VVoikers Union, Beas Dam, 
Taiwan, 


Workers Union, Beas Dam, 
Talwara Township. 

16,000 

1 


(We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator, shall 
bo binding on us. Tho Arbitrator shall make his award within 
a period of three months or within such further time as is 
extended by mutual agreement between us in writing, In case 
the Award is not made within tho period aforementioned, the 
reference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and 
wo shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 


Signature of the parties. 


For the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. — Shi i S. S. Mukherjee, 
Advocate. 

For the Workmen — Shri H. N. Singh, Vice-President, 
Koyala Ispat Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharin. 

State: Bihar Industry; Coal. 


Dhanbad, the 25th May, 1973 
AWARD 

The present reference arises out of Order No. L/2012/ 
14/72-LRTF dated New Delhi, the 4th September, 1972 
passed by the Central Government in respect of an indus- 
tiial dispute between the parties mentioned above. The 
subject matter of the dispute has been specified in the 
schedule to the said order and the said schedule runs as 
follows: — 

“Whether the action of the management of Lodna Col- 
liery at present under the management of Bharat 
Coking Coal Limited, Post Office Jharia, District 
Dhanbad, in dismissing from service Shri Ram 
Avtar Mall ah, Underground Munshi, with effect 
from the 21st September, 1 97 1 is justified? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled?’* 

2, The dispute has been settled out of Couit. A memo- 
randum of settlement, dated 25th May, 1973 has been filed 
in Court. I have gone thiough the terms ot settlement and 
I find them quite fair and reasonable. There is no reason 
why an aw f ard should not be made on the terms and condi- 
tions laid down in the Memorandum of Settlement. I accept 
it and make and award accordingly, The memorandum of 
settlement shall form part of the award. 


Representing Employer Sd/- 

Sardari Lai Executive Engineer — 
P o k Beas Dam Project, Talwara, 

Representing Workmen. 

Sd/~DauIat Singh Chauhan 

General Secretary, Workers Union, Beas Dam Project, Talwara 
Township. 

Witnesses. 

1. Sd/- Kuldip Singh, Personnel Officer, Boas Dam, Talwara, 

2. Sd/- Kiran Soni. 


3. Let a copy of this award be forwarded to the Central 
Government as required cinder section 15 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act 1947 

D. D, SETH, Presiding Officer 

BEFORE THE HON’BLE PRESIDING OFFICER, 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

NO. 1 AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of: 

Reference No. 30 of 1972 


[No.L.4201 2/ 1 5/73/LRIII] 

8 . 0 , 1747 . — Tn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 194/ (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, No. 1, Dhanbad, in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the manage- 
ment of Lodna Colliery at present under the management 
of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal Limited, Post Office Jharia, 
District Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received 
by the Central Government on the 31st May, 1973. 

(AWARD) 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL NO, 1, DHANBAD 

In the matter of refeience under section 10(l)(d) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 

Reference No. 30 of 1972 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the management of Lodna 
Colliery at present under the management of Messrs 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited, Post Office Tharia. 
District Dhanbad 


AND 

Their Workmen. 

Present: 

Mr. Justice D. D. Seth, (Retd.), Presiding Officer. 

Appearance#: 

For the old employers— Shri A. K. Sahay, Manager 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to Lodna Colliery 
AND 

Their Workman. 

MEMORANDUM OF SETTLEMENT 

All the parties in the present proceedings have amicably 
settled the dispute involved In the present Reference on the 
terms hereinafter stated: 

(1) That Shri Ram Avtar Mullah, the workman concerned 
in the present Reference shall be reinstated on and from 
28-5- 1973 without any back -wages and he shall be posted at 
Bagdlgi Colliery. He wall bo placed in clerical grade-ill 
(Central Wage Board) with basic salary of Rs, 225/- (Rupees 
Two hundred and twenty-five only) per month from the said 
date. 

(2) That the period Intervening from the date of dismis- 
sal (which gave rise to the present reference) till the date 
of resumption of duty shall, for the purposes of continuity 
of sendees, bo treated as leave without pay, but the work- 
man concerned will be eligible to proportionate leave pro- 
vided he puts in proportionate qualifying attendance during 
the remaining period of the current year. 

(3) That in the event of the failure of Shri Ram Avtar 
Mallah, concerned workman, to report for work within a 
fortnight from 28-5-1973, he shall have no light for re- 
employment etc. under this agreement, 

(4) That Shii H. N. Singh, Vice President, Koyala Ispat 
Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia will be paid a sum of Rs. 100/- 
(Rupees One Hundred only) as the post of proceedings. 

(5) That the above terms finally resolve the dispute bet- 
ween the parties and there is, therefore, no subsisting dls- 

pure for adjudication in the preseut reference. 



2222 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 


It is, therefore, prayed that the Hon’blc Tribunal may 
be pleased to accept this Settlement and to give its 
Award in terms thereof. 

For the Employer For the Workman 

II. N, SINGH, Vice-President, 

Koyala lspat Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia, 

A. K. SAHAY 
Manager 

Lodna Colliery 

For Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 

J. N. P. SAHI, Labour & Law Adviser 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. 

S. S. MUKHERJEE, Advocate 

Dated, the 25th May, 1973. 

[No. L. 2012/14/72/LR IT] 

SkO. 1748. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dis- 
pute between the employer in relation to the Jamuna Collieiy 
of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Limited. 
Post Office Jamuna Colliery, District Shahdol (Madhya Pra- 
desh) and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 4th June, 1973. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL- 
CUM-LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 
Jabalpur, the 24th April, 1973 

Present s 

Mr. Justice S. N. Katju — Presiding Office t. 

Case No, CGIT/LC(R)(6) of 1972 

(Notification No. L-22 12/21/2 1/71 -LRU dated 11-2-197/1. 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Jamuna Colliery of Messrs 
National Coal Development Corporation Limited, 
Post Office, Jamuna Colliery, District Shahdol 
(Madhya Pradesh) and their workmen represented 
through the Jamuna Kolari Mazdoor Snngh, P.0 

JCotma, District Shahdol (M.P.). 

Appearance*! 

For employers — Sri P. S. Nair, 

For workmen— Sri P. K. Thakur. 

Industry: Coal Mine District: Shahdol (M.P.J. 

AWARD 

This is a reference under Section 10(l)(d) of the indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter called the Act). 

The question referred is: — 

“Keeping in view the seniority list of Lower Division 
Clerks notified in 1968, whether the management of 
Jamuna Colliery of Messrs National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Limited, was justified in giving 
seniority list notified in 1969? If not, to what 
relief is the workman entitled? 11 

Admittedly Sri P. V. Samukutty is working on the staff 
of the Jamuna Colliery of National Coal Development Cor- 
poration Ltd. (hereinafter called the Corporation) as a Lower 
Division Clerk since 1968. According to the seniority list 
of the monthly paid employees of Jamuna Colliery as on 
1-4-1968 Sri P. V. Samukutty was shown as the senior most 
Lower Division Clerk/Typist. It was alleged by him that 
since he was an active worker of the Union and represented 
the cause of the workmen, the management acting in a 
malafide manner brought Sri A. K, Prasad from Giridih 
to the Jamuna Colliery and made him the senior most Lower 
Division Clerk on the basis of seniority and thus 
Sri Samukutty was bye-passed with the result that his 
future claims have been marred. On behalf of the manage- 
ment of the Colliery it was stated that the Corporation is 
a body corporate which owns various coal mines in Bihar, 


1 973/J YAISTHA 26, 1895 [Part II— 


Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, 'lhe services ot 
the employees are liable to be transferred from one mine 
to another for administrative convenience and even other- 
wise in accordance with the terms of the contract of service. 
Giridih Colliery of the Corporation had surplus staff which 
wag transferred to various collieries in which vacancies exlgt- 
ted. According to the management, A, K. Prasad was trans- 
ferred from Giridih to Jamuna Colliery on 11-1-1968. He 
had been appointed as early as 1-10-1968 and even prior to 
1-10-1968 he was working in other collieries from 1946. 
Both A. K. Prasad and P. V. Samukutty were in the same 
pay scale viz. 1 10—1 80 and their seniority was determined 
on the basis of length of service in the same ^ grade. Accord- 
ing to the management Samukutty was appointed in the 
scale of Rs. 110 — 180 on 1-6-1963 while A. K. Prasad was 
appointed in the same scale on 1-10-1956. Therefore, after 
A. K. Prasad was transferred from Giridih to the Jamuna 
Colliery he was made senior to Samukutty. It is dear that 
the Giridih Colliery and the Jamuna Colliery are under the 
management of the Corporation, The parties produced docu- 
mentary evidence but did not lead any oral evidence, Sri 
P. Jt. Thakur strenuously argued that the Jamuna Colliery 
was a separate unit for administrative purposes and Samu- 
kutty being the senior most Lower Division Clerk in the 
Colliery and his name having put first iu the seniority 
list he should not have been superseded by A. K. Prasad. 
Sri Thakur was, however, unable to point out any provision 
which prohibited the Corporation from transferring an em- 
ployee who was working in one of its units to another 
unit. It was fully within the competence of the Corpora- 
tion to transfer A. K. Prasad from Giridih to the Jamuna 
Colliery. He carried his seniority with him and it was not 
open to the management to lower it after his transfer from 
Giridih to the Jamuna Colliery. Mr. Thakur was unable to 
refer to any provision which may be binding on the parties 
for showing that an employees serving in the same company 
could be transferred from one of its units to another with- 
out retaining his own seniority in the service of the Com- 
any. It might have been hard on P. V. Samukutty that 
e no longer remained the senior most Lower Division 
Clerk in the Colliery as he was before the transfer of 
A. K. Prasad to the Jamuna Colliery. But it would have 
been very unjuct on the part of the management to have 
pushed down A, K. Prasad’s seniority after transferring him 
from Giridih to the Jamuna Colliery. An employee serving 
In one branch of the same concern can be transferred to 
another of the concern, but on such transfer he would re- 
tain his seniority and his pay scale and the management on 
transferring him to another unit can not bring down his 
seniority. It is, therefore, clear that the management was 
fully justified in giving seniority to A. K. Prasad over P, V. 
Samukutty on his transfer from Giridih to the Jamuna Col- 
liery and the workman, P. V. Samukutty, is not entitled to 
any relief. I make my award accordingly. The parties will 
bear their own costs. 

S. . KATJU, Presiding Officer 
[No. L.-220 12/21/71 /LR II] 

S.O, 1749. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 <14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the management 
of Haripur Colliery (The Selected Barabotii Coal Company 
Private Limited), Post Office Eahula, District Burdwan and 
their workmen, which was received bv the Central Govern- 
ment on the 2nd June, 1973. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
AT CALCUTTA 

Reference No. 45 of 1972 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the management of Haripur 
Colliery (The Selected Baraboni Coal Company 
Private Limited). 

AND 

Their Workmen 

Present i 

Sri S. N, Bagchi — Presiding Officer- 



THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : JUNE I6 ? 1973/JYA1STHA 26, 1895 


2223 


Sec, 3(ii)] 


APPEARANCE: 

On behalf of Employers. — Absent. 

On behalf of Workmen.— Absent, 

STATE: West Bengal Industry : Coal Mine 

AWARD 

By Order No. L/1912/56/72-T RH. dated 21-7-1972, the 
Government of India, in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabi- 
litation, Depart ment of Labour and Employment, referred 
the following industrial dispute existing between the emp- 
loyers in relation to the management of Haripur Colliery 
(The Selected Baraboni Coal Company Private Limited), 
and their workmen, to this tribunal, for adjudication, 
namely : 

‘'Whether the action of the management of Haripur Col- 
liery (The Selected Baraboni Coal Company Pri- 
vate Limited), Post Office Bahula, District Burd- 
wan in stopping the work of Shri Brij Behari 
Pandey, Sand Checker with effect from the 20th 
March, 1972 is justified? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled?” 

2. The parties filed their respective statement of cases in 
this matter. Thereafter the management of the colliery by 
an Ordinance of 1973 vested in the Central Government ad- 
ministered by a Statutory Custodian. But there was no law- 
ful appearance of the Central Government through the sta- 
tutory Custodian in his proceeding, 

3. On 18-4-1973 a curious application was filed before 
this tribunal containing the terms of alleged settlement sign- 
ed on behalf of the management by somebody with a date 
thereunder 16/4/1973 and on behalf of the workman by 
somebody with a date thereunder 16/4/1973. The names 
of the signatories are undecipherable. Below the names of 
the signatures no common seal appears i>. for the employer 
management and the workman purporting to be represented 
by a registered trade union. So, the tribunal directed the 
signatories to the so called compromise petition to appear 
before the tribunal on 24-5-1973 and to make submission on 
the alleged compromise petition if any. The date was duly 
notified. None for the management and for the work- 
men appear in spite of notice. The so called compromise 
petition cannot therefore be recorded. 

4. As the parties do not appear, this tribunal considers 
that there is no dispute. Accordingly a ‘no dispute 1 award 
is rendered. 

Dated 24th May 1973. 

S, N. BAGCHI, Presiding Officer. 

[No. L.-19012/56/72-LR II] 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy. 


stT^r 

t? 5 30 ankr, 1973 

<5T. 3TT. 1750.— *TTT: *lkk 777RT77 qft TW g fa <J*7T- 

if kW ^ jk k %. 'ft 75k 

kifW <t>nv nr-ytk 

37k sjRf »fhr k^TT 

arfV *t<t: *fkk tor w kw «Trt -qnknfqq 
kn3 kk'kM *5? <kkk t ■, 

3TrT:, ar=r, erikk'W. 1947 (1947 «trr 

14 ) ^ httt 10 qft Tnhrr ci) ^ (bt) ir^r 
kkRrt 9y! j i ^>wi 5^, ^ kiR qri- 

sTkffRTR ^ (m 7^ ^ Rtfk iTkrT 
afftrwr, wti y -wTkWW ^ krt? ^ ^ 1 

“w %. (ft. w q fcVK kkek , «ftr£7 ^ 

(W frof^) kw ariV a l /fo r gd 

mTf k kkkTTT opk wku t 4 tor 
^ 77T-R*T7 37k akkl^ - OTTf ^ TO^7 


*rk ^RrfkRr g 

wW RlkkR tf? BTfr H#, r it TTkkjTT 
qkqR ai^ttN ^ aTk ttitiQ ^ TjqTR 

if 1 ?" 

[7T, Rr-2901l/7/73-Rr. 3717,-4] 

order 

New Delhi, the 30th April, 1973 

S.O. 1750. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of U.P. State Industrial Corpora- 
tion Limited, Kanpur and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Dispute hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under section 7 A 
of the said Act, 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the action of the U.P. State Industrial Corpo- 
ration Limited*. Kanpur by not implementing the 
recommendations of the Central Wage Board for 
Limestone and Dolomite Mines in the case of th^ir 
workmen employed in the Limestone and Dolomite 
Mines at Chopan (District Mirzapur) is justified? 
If not, to what relief arc the workmen concerned 
entitled and from what date? 

[No. L-290 11/7 /73-LR.IV.] 
^ 11 1973 

«TT. 377. 1751.— TO sfkk 777*517 qk TFT t fa ^ TO- 

*r^r 37T^=fr if kkk r,s d kro^ 4 1 tfW 3nfk 

77R 3| *-4 f Ml ffj , 3T-V7T, sf , ^ 7T 

TTRTftr fayt'W 37f7 ^ ^ 

fsf*TT^ 

97^7 ?77qrR 9 Tq *fr| ^ 

qrRT 67f7Hk if, 

9R: 3K, 97ff7tt*T^! ofNlfqRR-, 1947 (1947 ^ 

14) 17777 10 ^ ^qUTTT (1) ^ 7?n« (y) ^TTTT U^Tcr 

itrfwRf qiT m*iim qr7rt ^ 3 , «wi( 

qrf (3R7T affvkRR ^ «TT7T 7*^i ^ ar#T 

H7qn7 3fttRnor, (7k*TT 2 ) *trb c (k 

ikk 37^ik *?k fWk, strM' 
ipnry, *k k rpk ^kraff *k thw 

*rk qft qnTki^ k 

qnkT7 f*57T afifTTk *5T g^T7 £ ?” 

rcf. nR. l 29012(14)/73RR. 9777.-4] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th May, 1973 

S.O. 1751. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of Messrs Ashok Stone Industries, 
Amboli Hill, Andheri, Bombay and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 



2224 


[Part XT — 


THE GAZETTE Ot INDIA : JUNE 16, 1973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Bombay constituted 
under section 7 A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

Whether Messrs Ashok Stone Industries, Amholi Hill, 
Andheri, Bombay were justified in terminating the 
services of Shri Hanumantha Laxman? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. I.-29012(14)/73-LR.IV.] 
^ fWt 4 3t*7, 1973 

WT. 37T. 1752.— W: 4^kk OTK 4, *7? OHIVTO 3nk 

97 k ok fw k - '/or snJko t, 3rk- 

1947 (1947 STT 14) ^ WT77 2 ^ 395 (S) gWr (l S 

(i) 4 gowf 4 37*^7797 ’tot ttwtc q? oo - 37ft q/r- 

ok (snr 37ft tkoR qtf ariV^Ri o. >711. 

377. 4078 OR^T 29 H4J07, 1972 ffl77, W Offw ?-r*r<-r, 4l 

um 2 ^ 7393 (s') jf *r« 7 T 9 kTTf'w «Jk* 7 R 7 I t gfik ^ 
srfVfgW 4 H *11310 )' 4 far* 29 k'*7*47, 1U72 O: 
oto ^lomhr grokt shr kfw farm or, 

37ft W: OOTTR qft 0*7 t 1% ok kr OW 

I n i q fir qrr ??: ott7 ^ 37ft tunh Vw 4 TVk o^t*tt snor 

3777: w, kru? sThitwo, 1947 (1947 

14) ift URT 2 4 09* (3) *7? 3909* (1) 4 97^ 

WTO okflkP *5T 0*7tO 5T77f '£*#7 07007 'TO^’OTT 

TOT g^rk gw 37tvk*ro ^ <r> ko 29 ^ 

1973 V: mr 37ft =tiidiqfw 4 kri ok gwf*ft tNt 
ottw 'Toft ^ i 

[pit. o. go.-no25/i9/73-'ro\ am. n 

New Delhi, the 4th June, 1973 

S.O. 1752. — Whereas the Central Government having been 
satisfied that the public interest so required had, in pursuance 
of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), declared 
by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 4078 dated the 29th November, 1972, 
the banking industry carried on by a banking company as 
defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the said Act, to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act. for a 
period of six months from the 29th December, 1972. 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period by a 
further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further 
period of six months from the 29th June, 1973. 

[File No. S. 11025/19/73-LR.L] 

W. 3TT. 1753.— W: q5g/)*7 07977 W 7HHIOTH Ok 

97 fq? <lk ffj (1 jf 1 * [3 1 o hT^TTT *77, *71777 O0TR %R7, 

t^rtr srft q-TTk wto* 7 («nr ajft rkon koor) 
arhl^'HI 77. m. 377. 4168 TTr/k 28 OW77, 1972 fORT 
^ irvff kk 4 3Ttfk ^ JlijN <T?^ 

•srfVf^TTnr, 1947 (1947 14) 4 f?n> 

22 ^'71«T7, 1972 7f W RT7T ^ ^TRFlttr ^ ^7- 

77^ Tfm RffSTTT fVTTI *77 I 

3^*7 7T7T: TT73TR ^ 77R ^5 ?rfq> fgTTT TTTT 

qiiMiiPtr 5 trtt artfi f i 


37771, 37*7, arHl ?H ^ *4‘, 1947 (1947 *57 

14) ^ 7T7TT 2 75^ («) ^ d9<3'is (6) ^ M 7 f*7T7T 

17^777 tTTT TRTk ^TTTTf ^ ^^£7 777 4R7 IfTI^WT 

gw g^ 7 f*r 4 gw 3 ff* 7 f 7 rw 4 wfw fTn- 22 5^, 

1973 t}- 7J: RR7 aift 1il«IT?«7 ^ ^ Trf^ gwWt 7^T 

gffw wTft if 1 

['TIT. 77. 7T77.-11 025/18/ 73-^77. 3TR. 1] 
T7T. TJTT. 7T77W7W, 37*R Tlfw 

S.O. 1753, — Whereas by the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour & Employment) No. S.O. 4166, dated 
the 28th November, 1972, the Central Government, being 
satisfied that the public interest so required, had declared 
the industry for the supply of milk under the Delhi Milk 
Scheme to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), for a period of 
six months from the 22nd December, 1972; 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act, for a further 
period of six months from the 22nd June, 1973, 

[F. No. S. 1J 025/1 8/73-LR, L\ 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


STT^TT 

*T. 377. 1754.— W; 777^7 7R7 f k prtf g^IT- 

3tt£t^ 4 1 kfgiysg fawt $ ^ krfw 

(tJjfudTT) q»»nhr17 ^ W*J 

w t} 1 7T7^*r fwkrrlf arf? g*k ^ *fk ^ 

3||'^i)ii'j|q> ?^*7 T g f, 

37?7 Wi 77TO7 gw W7T<<T-T‘ if7 R 5? 

qr757r ^rakk tf 1 , 

3777:, 3RT, 3)! , Wlfj|4i 3ffvfgW, 1947 C1947 ®R 

14) k tTRT 10 k? g*7-77T77 (1) 4 ST'S («7) fR7T WT7T 

Trfwri 1 «pt wk Tik q5kk tttwp- gw f-7^ 

gw 37f*jfW77 k VT7T-73V 4 37tfk nfw *f!kk 777*517 

37hiqi 7 u i, qrwrw k 4 kn 

^7k i 

377^ 

‘‘^tt kk kik*r tnri *kkkk (^fe) 

kltw?, WTO 4 «d4*Til< )', 374 k 7T*fk 

0*7, 7TfT J77T73 0*7, 3rkWT 0*7, 770" H7V, 
TTWV, 77707, 770" 3(ik, ?t7 W7, *7*kT*7, 770*^7, 
fkw, 77*7 WJ, OT77 "HP^ kk, *T5f^7 3fft «fl 
OTiV7, ?)3^7 37ft «ft ?k7 ST, qkk7, T7f?7- 

kftTTr #i¥ *rfk*ro afro mm rg wk (rg*5) 
f7T77 k*7T 0*77, k ?HTO?«?7slr7 kk Wkfw ^ ? 

*7k 3T, ot ^ krg- 377511k k SftV knr vrrkfw B 

S*tn?R f- ? 

(1) wkirf ^ 7*7rkrgr ^ kw, 

(2) sirHOK ^rT k*7W, 

(3) *[W wroi f 97 WR7 37f7 STO qnklR T vt 4~ftz 

ke 11 jWfojrt 4 37ifk W7 sr^iN 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 1 973/JYAISTHA 26, 1895 


Sec. 3(ii)] 


ifg- j i Ef *ttot, TT^rr-r f^rr^T, 

TO F^TT OT I 

(4) yiknfsq; I 

(5) ?qre l mfo re>H *5^5^, W) Jfft zmfarG 

W./^cM I 

[ff, ^-32011/2/73-^ ITO^ sTl ■ 

# mrnfcfrm , w 

ORDER 

S.O. 1754. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the management of Messrs Shipping and Clearing 
(Agents) Private Limited, Calcutta and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desira-* 
able to refer the said dispute for ad]udication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers confeired by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal. Calcutta, constituted under 
section 7 A of the said Act, 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the following demands of the workmen, 
namely; S/Shri Chandrika Rai, Ram Prasad Rai, 
Ambika Rai, Ram Naresh, Ramdeo, Sagar, Ram 
Audhay Hari Charan, Dharamnath Rambuji Hari 
Rai Ram Chandra. Lai, Bahadur Singh, Mazdoors 
and Shri Zakir, Driver and Shri Haider Khan 
Cleaner of Messrs Shipping & Clearing (Agents) 
Private Limited as represented by National Union 
of Watei front Workers (INTUC) are justified? If 
so, to what relief are they entitled and from what 
date? 

(1) Decluiation of permanency of workmen; 

(2) Fixation of pay scale; 

(3) Payment of dearness allowance, additional dearness 
allowance, House rent, City Compensatory 
allowance as admissible under the recommendations 
of the Central Wage Board for Port and Dock 
Woikers at Major Ports. 

(4) Weekly rest. 

(5) privilege leave, sick leave and cusual leave. 

[No. L-32011 /2/73-P&DJ 
V. SANKARA LIN GAM, Under Secy, 


fordt, 6 ^T, 1973 

*Romo 17 53 FFTTrit tfpTT *ftrPnpT, 19 18 ( 1948 

rfr 34) tnrr i it stt ^TfasPTt ft ft ft *r.<n gr 
TRW, ^ ( 4 ) T fafirfe: 

wwi ( 3 ) *r 

triT % dh A, WT ^TTEET % WTPT -4 rffif 5 

% FW* tPp T# t, -Ft ^ ^ f ^ ? * 7R “ 

ttftrfwr wm 5 -* * *nfrr ^rwrik frTNrcr 

% fam * ttft w *r sfftcpt 

whf h 30 ^T, 1 973 TT ftR# W> feT ^ | 

* mam 5 % 

FT ftFFT A FTT Tift Et ^T, ^ ^ * 


2225 


FT Tfo fahr FT TFT FT TFT L ilW FT FFT 

0) (2) ( 3 ) (4) 


d'T'fV ^TT?T TFT dV T^fl K 

Ptft 1 

1 TTTF^ET ^TRFT 

fbw 1 

2 itud ^ f a iTT TTFT" 

4^ffW Twfr m- 

ft - frlTTs 1 

T/kI TTFF 4TH ■hivj'i 

Ttf I 

dr# TEFT WET £*FT- 

^T3Tt Ww WIT 

fam I 

3rd dfrFfrF ’mrdfw 
mrr TTq^frfbft^T *fFWt 
f^r*TJ¥, TTf hPtT I 

UTP^WT T^TK^ Wr 

grr fiprif ^TTffcr 1 

fro Tfto qhr 

rnTcj rpjo R/f ft S | 

Tf fery;e ~ fmqffcr 
UtTT^ft RtTt- 
Thfr th ,t fun^ 
tfTR I 

uw fqrr d-T- 

uTTTwt Mt- 

zv 1 

d*rd yrf wpt fm^r ri£w 

Oir , fttIt 1 

UFo 38014( 7)/7 3-T^o?nfo] 
New Delhi, the 6th June, 1973 

S.O* 1755* — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
73f of the Employees * State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), 
the Central Government, having regard to the location of the 
factories specified in column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed 
in areas specified in column (3) of the said Schedule, in the 
Slate of Maharashtra in which the provisions of Chapters IV 
and V of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said 
factories from the payment of employer's special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act with eJlcct from the 
date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette 
upto and inclusive of the 30lh June, 1973 or until the enforce- 
ment of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in 'hose areas, 
whichever is earlier. 


1 , TTFTTT 


2. ,j TH < Hrf) 


3 VRTPT 


1 TTTFfT 


5 ’TFT 4/ 


6 


7 TWHNK 


8 ZpRFFT 


9 tfriTTMK 


10 dTUMHlS . 


vpirm 

TTFTTT 

tftjt (^refr- 

ftw) 

TTfPT 

FTT^tyrt 

d<;rf] T 



2226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 16, 19 73/ JYAISTHA 2 6, 1895 


SCHEDULE 


SI. Name of the 

No, District 

Name of the 
area 

Name of the factory 

0) (2) 

(3) 

(4) 

1. Akola 

Karanja 

Messrs Kail ash Dal and 
Flour Mills. 

2, Amravatl 

Badnera 

1. Messrs Gulab ehand 
Oil Mills. 

2, Messrs Vegetable Oil 

Manufacturing Com- 
pany Private Ltd. 

3. Bhandara 

. Bhandara 

Messrs Bajaj Metal 

Works, Siation Road. 

4. Buldhanu 

. Malkapur 

Messrs Bharat General 
und Textile Industry 
Limited, Oil Mills. 

5. Nagpur . 

Nagpur 

(FCamptcc Road) 

Messrs Asiatic Oxygen 
and Accctyline Com- 
pany Limited, Vali 

Manzil. 

6, Nanded . 

■N. 

Wazegaon 

Messrs Marathwado Ut- 
padak Sahkari Sut 
Girni Maryadit, 

7. Osman abad 

Murud 

Messrs PC. Pole Fac- 
tory M.S. Electricity 
Board. 

8. Yeotmat . 

Lahora 

Messrs District Co- 
operative Develop- 

ment Society, Ltd. 
Gandhi Bhavan, Azad 
Maldan. 

9. Aurangabad 

Kag7ipum 

1. Messrs Hand Made 
Paper Manu fact tiring 
Co-nocralive Indus- 
trial Society Limited. 

10. Osmanbad 

Udgir 

Messrs Durga Oil Mills 


Station Road, Udpir. 


[File No, S-3R01 4/7/73 — HI] 

8 5^, 1973 

*PT. W. 175G.— qrT: FTHTiH ft qrftqrft 7T?£r sftJTT 

1948 (1948 *PT 34) *fft WT7T 4 4 BTO- (®)q? 

ar^FTor jf »-ft ftft q>. W 4 WFT R7 sft tJTT, tiff. 

ST «HT SflT/TO, JTORHT, qft tfrftWJ TR?sr ftfar 

farr ft 1 ft^t n^r qrr qnft q> *m- 

f^IT f, 

3RT:, snr, qnfwitf TTOT ftfaT arft l?^F , 1948 (1948 5f)T 

34) qft tiiTr 4 4 anpw *f, qft?fcr From, Trar FrcqrR 4 

*ht, rfcmrc aft? tpqfw tor (sstr- ^ xUm 

^THFT) qft arfWF^WT FT. ^T, ■3TT. 2763, 27 1971 

jf fa n fa tom arft Ffaftro qroft sroftr ;— 

art wt^rt tf (qft?fcr fmr tmr 4 4 &v 
(X) qi SfftftT FHT TTOT^fat q>T F?alHVVW qntft 4 falJ 


JPart 11— 


iffrfa sft ftH JT3 22 tfmft qft ufaffa 4 PIR 
TF fa^fafalTT niVfe 77^ 5TTTJjft, amfr ■— 

“22. ftt FTFT. TFT. Ffa[fa7ft 

st m amprr. far# tritfr, fafat i" 

m FT. q^-16012/ 4 / 73 -TT. 5tfa] 

New Delhi, the 8th June, 1973 

S.O. 1756. — Whereas the Central Government has in 
pursuance of clause (e) of section 4 of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), nominated Shri S.S 
Sanzagiri, Deputy labour Commissioner, Delhi Administra- 
tion, Delhi to represent the Union territories on the Emp- 
loyees’ State Insurance Corporation in place of Shri V.K. 
Chanana; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the Emp- 
loyees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Dep- 
artment of Labour and Employment) No. S.O, 2763, dated 
the 27th May, 1971, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the head (Nominated by 
the Central Government under clause (c) of section 4 to 
represent union territories) for the entry against item 22 the 
following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“22. Shri S.S. Sanzagiri, Deputy Labour Commissioner, 
Delhi Administration, Delhi.” 

[No. U-16012/4/73-HH 

«pt. an. 1757 .— ftst ftfaT srhi fd'trR', ms 

(1948 q?T 34) qft tTRT 73-R fJT7T JRW FlfaT# T#TT 

qrrft 4^h ^Tqrrc, t*hi«u Ffftfa ui/ffaqtoH 

tRfs, «r?faT j-^fafa^ra qrmffaFT, srqrfaT rtstt rte, q^faT 
jtfh; qrRaift qft, #ft *f\ srr arfafaqF 4 
arwrq- 4 aft 5 ^ 3T«hr trttt f - , 3rqfa»rfar qrf m ft 4 
ST? ^qrf qn ra i ^ qrf to artafnqF 4 ariRR 5 -^ 
4 ^y4go f H faqi*iq> 4 ftniq Ff pr arttr- 

4 TOTTO jf 4, JTOTOR mffer ^ 30 5^, 1973 THi 

f5HTJ^ T? PT'I' ’ft SrrhTFT t, 0^ ^fft f I 

CHiT. FT. 38014(37)/73-tR-, 3^*,] 
TFTSfftr fFR, 3RT FffRq- 


S,0. 1757. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
73F of the Employees* State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 
1948), the Central Government, having regard to the location 
of the factory, namely the Atlandara Sewage Purification 
Treatment Plant, Baroda Municipal Corporation, Akola 
Padra Road, Baroda in an area in which the provisions of 
Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby 
exempts the said factory from the payment of the emplo- 
yer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act with effect from date of publication of this noti- 
fication in the Official Gazette upio and inclusive of the 
30th June, 1973. 

[File No. S.-38014/37/73-Hl] 
DAL JIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


PRINTED BY TRE MANAGER GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, RING ROAD, NEW DELHI, 

and published by the controller of publications, delhi-6, 1973 



