Registered No C207 


Ext? 50721 nary 
Published by Authority 


০১১১১১১১১১১ a 
سس‎ Wand ঠিক পনি রত টি সপ 


naw এরি ا‎ 


SUNDAY, JULY 1, 1956. 


PART 1—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


9 نے‎ 
GOVERNMEN’ OF WEST BENGAL 


Orders by the Commissioner of Police 
Calcutta 


ORDER 


WHEREAS there is apprehension of the occurrence 
of rioting, affrays and other disturbances of the public 
tranquillity within the area in the schedule hereto 
(hereinafter referred to as the said area); 


AND WHEREAS, I, H. S. Ghose Chaudhuri, Com- 
missioner of Police, Calcutta, being a Presidency 
Magistrate, have been specially empowered by the 
State Government under Notification No. 2627-G.A., 
dated the Sth August 1955, to act under section 144 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 


1898); oO 

AND WHEREAS, in my opinion, there is sufficient 
ground for procecding under the said section for the 
immediate prevention of disturbances of the public 
tranquillity and of riots and affrays. within the said 
area; 


1591 


02 THE CALCUTTA GAZETLE, ۰ [Pant এ 
NARY, JULY 1, 1056 


22 লি হু پچچٹبببیبٹیبٹٍى.‎ 


Now THEREFORE, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (/) of section 144 of the Code 
of Criminal Procecure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), read 
with sub-section (3) of the said section, I, the said 
H. S. Ghase Chaudhuri, Commissioner of Police, 
Calcutta, do hereby prohibit from the 180 day of July 
1956, until further orders, any ass¢mbly of five or 
more persons within the said area, or the carrying of 
any lathis or other dangerous weapons or the doing 
of any act which is likely to cause a disturbance of the 
public tranquillity or a riot or an affray within the 
said areas 


The Schedule 


The area within the jurisdiction of Hare Street 
police-station in the Town of Calcutta bounded— 

On the north by Hastings Street (the strect being 
excluded); 

On the south by Auckland Road and Lawrence 
Road up to the South Gate of Raj Bhawan 
(the roads being included); 

On the east by Government Place West (the road 
being included); and 

On the west by Strand Road (thé road being 
excluded). 


Explanation.——In this schedule “Town of Calcutta” 
means the Town of Calcutta as defirted in section 3 of 
the Calcutta Police Act, 1866 (Bengal Act IV of 
1866). 


Given under my hand and seal this the Ist day of 
July 1956. 


ঢা. 5. GHOSE CHAUDHURI, 
Commissioner f Police, Calcutta. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the Ist July 1956. 


182৫151215৫. No. C207 No. 33108) 


Calriutta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 
0 


. TUESDAY, JULY 3, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


٠ GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENT. 


Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 6727M./2C-14/56.—2nd July 1956—lIn exercise of the power 
conferred by section 187 of the Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911 (Bengal 
Act V of 1911), the Governor is pleased to make, after previous publication, 
bk: following rules for regulating elections under clause (d) of sub-section 
(1)tot section 4‘of the said Act, namely سے‎ 


RULES. 


1. The two members of the Board of Trustees for the Improvement of 
Calcutta to represent the four Chambers of Commerce, namely, the Bengal 
“hamber of Commercé, the Bengal National Chamber of Commerce, the 
indian Chamber of Commerce and the Bharat Chamber of Commerce, shall 
ne elected under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Calcutta 
‘Improvement Act, 1911, in the following manner, namely :— 

‘ (৪) One member shall be elected alternately by the members of the 
Bengal National Chamber of Commerce and of the Indian Chamber of 
। 00207179709) the first member to be so elected after the expiry of the term 
of the member representing the Bengal National Chamber of Commerce at 
the date of this notification being elected by the members of the Indian 
Chamber of Commerce; 
(b) one member shall be‘elected alternately by the members of the 
engal Chamber of Commerce and of the Bharat Chamber of Commerce 
the first member to be so elerted after the expiry of the term of office o: 
the member representing the Bengal Chamber of Commerce at the date o 
this notification being elected by the members of the Bharat Chamber o 


Commerce, 
1599 


1600 THE CAL. GAZ. EXIRY., JULY 3, 196 [Part 


۱ے ت ث پچ ۔۔۔۔۔۔ ۔۔ے ‏ ہے ۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔ ۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔ ت ۔ ۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔ ہہ سس شش ৯‏ 

2. A casual vacancy in the seat of any of the two members referred চা 

in clauses (a) and (b) of rule 1 shall be filled by the election of a member 

by the members of the Chamber by whom the election to fill the seat 

concerned was held in the first instauce, and the member so elected shall 

hold office for the residue of the tetm of office of the member whose seat he 
is so elected to fill. 


8(1). Every election held by the members of the Bengal Chamber of 
Commerce under rule 1 or rule 2 shall be in accordance with the rules 
applicable to the election of a member of the Chamber to be a member of 
the Board of Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta immediately before 
these rules came into force. 


(2) Every election held by the members of the Bengal Nation 
Chamber of Commerce, the Indian Chamber of Commerce, or the hang 
Chamber of Commerce under rule 1 or rule 2 shall be in accordance wi 
the rules contained in the Schedule. 


the Schedule. 
[See Rule 3(2)] 


Rules for the election of a member of the Board of Trustees for the Improv 
ment of Calcutta by members of the Bengal National Chamber 
Commerce/the Indian Chamber of Commerce/the Bharat Chamber 
Commerce, 


1. Not less than 21 days before su¢h date as may be appointed by thp 
State Government for the election of a member of the Board of Trusteas 
fur the Improvement of Calcutta, referred to in sub-rule (2) of rule 3, hereé- 
inafter referred to as the date for the election of the Secretary to the 
Chamber, by the member of which the election is to be held, hereinufte 
referred to as the Secretary, shall invite nominations from the members o 
the Chamber who are entitled to exercise the rights of voting at ৪9 
election under the Articles of Association of the Chamber. 


2. Nominations shall reach the Secretary at least ten clear days before 
the date for the election; any nominations received later shall be rejected.: 


3. The President of the Chamber shall thereupon examine the nomina- 
tions and shall instruct the Secretary to issue ut least seven days before 
the date for the election, a ballot paper signed and numbered by him and 
containing the names of the persons whose nominations are found to be in 
order to every member of the Chamber referred to in paragraph 1. 


4, (a) Every such member shall have one vote only. 
(b) Every such member desirous of voting at the election shall record 


his vote on the ballot paper supplied to him by putting a cross mark against 
the name of the person whom he desires to vote.for and sign it, end shall 
return the same to the Secretary so as ty reach him on or before the date 


for the election. 


(c) Any ballot paper which is not received by the Secretary within the 
due date shall be rejected. 


5. The ballot papers shall then be examined by two Scrutineers 
appointed by the President of the Chamber from among the members of the 
Chamber who have not offered themselves as candidates for the election. 


Part 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 3, 1956 1601 


6. The Scrutineers shal] report the result of the examination of the 
ballot papers to the Secretary. 


7. The candidate who, on such report, is found to have obtained the 
largest number of votes shall be declared by the Secretary to be elected, and 
the report of the Scrutineers shall be ‘conclusive evidence of his election. 


Provided that if the voting has resulted in an equality of votes between 
two or more candidates, lots shall be drawn in the presence of the Secretary 
of such other officer and in such manner us may be directed by the President 
of the Chamber, to determine which’ of such candidates shall be declared 
to be elected. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDHAN, 
1৮, Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


a e سے اس‎ 
blished by the Superintendent, Government Printing, bile Bengal, 


Printel and pu 
& at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 3rd July 1956. 


2992 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1956 


CONTENTS: 
Page. 
PART I.—Orders and notifications by the 
Govornor of West Bengal, the High Court, PART V.—Acts of the Parliament of India 
Government Treasury, ete. 7 -. 2591—2666 assentod to by the President and Ordinanova 


PART IA.—Orders and notifications of the 
Govornmont of India, Statutory notifications 
of the Election Commission, India, and other 
Election notifications publishod for general 
information. Ordors and notifications which 
have originally been published in the ‘Gazet 
of India” are only republished 7 Nil 


PART IB.—~Educational Notices ae as Nil 


PART II.—Advertisemente, notices .. P 818-8 
PART 107,406 of the West Bengal Logisla- 

turo - 7 ee -۰ Nil 
PART IIIA.—Ordinances promulgated by the 

Governor of West Bengal under the Consti- 

tution of India ‘ ax ۳ Nil 


PART IVA.—Bills introduced in the West 
Bengal Legislative Assembly: Reports of 
Select Committees presented or to ৮৪ 

nted to that Assembly; and Bills pub- 
ishec before introduction in that Assembly NiJ 


PART IVB.—Bills introduced in the West 
Bengal Legislative Council; Reporte of 
Select Committees presented or to be 
sented to that Council; and ills published 

ore introduction in that Council وا‎ Nil 


promulgated ৮5 the President— Nil 


PART V1.—Bills introduced in Parliament of 
Indio; Roports of Select Comnnittees prosenkd 
to Parliament; and Bills published before 


introuuction in Parliament Nil 
SUPPLEMENT No. 26— 
Woekly Weather and ae রি rt of West 
Bengal for the week ending the 2)st June 
1956 ee ee ee ee 389—390 
Second Forecast of Wheat Crop of West 
Bengal for 1955-56 ৬ ৬ eo Cm 39] 
Daily rainfall recorded in West Bengal for th 
month of June and 0৮310 1955 ৭, *০ 892—899 
Second Forecast of Gram Crop of West Bengal 
for 1955-56 ee 5৪ @ oe 400 


ع/چعچگوچششسش۹ن۹ش۹نڑٹٹکشتٹػش”ی۹ی۹شسششسششسيیث سج سض ۔و۔س-۔بہہیہ۔ ‏ ے۔۔م۔۔۔_۔_ سے খল‏ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


জ্বরাচ্্র বিভাগ | 
HOME DEPARTMENT . 
সাধারণ শাসন। 
General Administration 
he ২৫৮১'জি,এ। 
No. 2089G.A, 
[নয়োগ ও বদলণী। 
Appointments and Transfers 
| সাধারণ । 
General. 
২৪-পরগনা।+-নং ২১৯৮জ,এ।১এল-২০।৫৬।-২৬শে জুন ۱ 
»-১৮৯৮ থষ্টাব্দের দণ্ডপ্রণালীর (১৮১৮ YS 68 আইন) SOF ধারার *য় 
উপধারায় প্রদত্ত ক্ষমতাবলে রাজ্যপাল কর্তৃক শ্রী এস, ভি, FHA, আই,এ,এস, 
পুনরাদেশ পর্যন্ত ২৪-পরগনা জেলার অপর জেলাশাসক TS হইলেন। 
এ পদে নিযুক্ত থাকাকালে 'তাঁন Se দণ্ডপ্রণালী প্রদত্ত জেলাশাসকের 
সমস্ত ক্ষমতা এবং এ জেলায় প্রচলিত অন্যান্য আইনসমূহ প্রদত্ত সমস্ত 
ক্ষমতা প্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


24-Parganas.—No. 2198G.A. /1L-20/56.—26th 
June 1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 10 of the (ode of 
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), ihe 
Governor is pleased to appoint Shri S. V. 
Krishnan, I.A.S., on the expiry of his leave, 10 
act as Additional District Magistrate, 24-Parganas, 
until further orders, and to direct thut he shall 
have during the period he is so employed all the 
powers of a District Magistrate under the said 
Code and under all other laws in force in thiut 
district. 
By order of the Governor, 
8. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 
শট 


Darjeeling - Cooch 84191 — No, 2234G.A./ 
48-26 /56.—28th June 4956.—The (tovernor 1s 
pleased to appoint 9181 Naresh Chandra Rai 
Chaudhury,, Sub-Depuff¥ Mugistrate and Sub- 
De nity Collector, Siliguri, Darjeeling, to be a 
Sub-Deputy Magistrata and sub-Deputy Collector 
in the Cooch Behar district and to post him to the 
headquarters station off that district. 


٣ order of the Governor, 


ও. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


'আরক্ষা। 
Police 

কাঁলকাতা :ہے‎ ২২১২জি,এ।৩াপ-৭1৫৬্পাট -:۹۷ জুন sacy ۔۔ا‎ 
কালকাতার অন্যতম আরক্ষা পারদর্শক শ্রী সি, এইচ, উইকেনস কাভার 
গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে পুনরাদেশ পর্যন্ত SMBS অন্যতম সহ-নগরপাল 
5 হইলেন। 

Calcutta.—No. 2212G.A./3P-7/56 Pt.—27th 
June 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri C. H. Wickens, an Inspector of the Calcutta 
Police, to act, until further orders, as an_Assist- 
ant Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, with effect 
from the date of hig joining the post. 

কালকাতা।-নং ২২২৮জ,এ।৬৭৫৬াঁপাঁট২।--২৭শে জুন ১৯৫৬). 
কাঁলকাতার সহ-নগরপাল শ্্রীনশহার কুমার বর্ধন কার্যভার গ্রহণের ۹ 
হইতে পুনরাদেশ পর্যন্ত কাঁলকাতার অন্যতম উপ-নগরপাল ۴ 
চুইলেন। * 

Calcutta.—Noe 2228G.A./6/56Part I1.—27th 
June 1966.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 


Shri Nihar Kumar Burdhan, Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Police, Calcutta, to act, until further 


orders, 2৪ , & eda Commissioner ef Police, 
Calcutta, with effect trom the date of his joining 
the post. 
/ By order of the Governor, 
5. N. RAY, Chief Secy 
wie! 
Leave 
সাধারণ | 
General 


নং ২১৯০জ),এ।২এল-১৩।৫৬পাঁটি।--২৫শে জুন sacy --B---71F 
ও کے‎ শ্রীতারাপদ ভট্রাচার্যকে পাঁশ্চমবঞ্গ gore নিয়মাবলী (১ 
খণ্ড) ৯৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক Try ১৬ই মে ১৯৫৬ তারিখের 
১৭৪৩ জি,এ, প্রজ্ঞাপনে মঞ্জরশকৃত ছার کہ‎ ১২ই মে ১৯৫৬ ۴۷ 
হইতে আট দিনের 5 ছাট.মঞ্জযর করা হইল। 


No. 21900.48.12].-13166 Pt.—26th June 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to allow Shri "۲۵ 
Bhattacharjee, Deputy Magistrate and Deputy 
Collector, earned leave for eight days, with effect 
from the 12th May 1956, under rule 18108) of the 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part J, in exteu 
of the leave grated to him under the’ otdite 
tained in this department notification No. | 
G.A., dated the 16th May 1956. 


Part [J 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


2593 


SS a crc a EE ES a ee 


i ৮ 

হগলশ।-নং ২২০৮জ,এ।৩এল-২২।৫৬/-২৬শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-- 

হুগলশ জেলার অবর উপ্‌তশাসক ও সমাহর্তা 53۳۴۹73۰ আহামেদকে 

গা কৃত্যক 'নিয়মাধলশর (১ম খন্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক 7 

ইরা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ Shay হতে একাঘিশ দিনের کاہ‎ ছাট মগ 
করা হইল। 


Hooghly.—No. 2208G.A. /3L-22/56.—26th June 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to  ailow 
Shri Fabiruddin Ahmed, Sub-Deputy: Magistiate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector, Hooghly, earned leave 
for thirty-one days, with effect from the 2nd July 


1956, under rule 167(1i) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, 

Police 

আরক্ষা। 


কাঁলকাতা নং ২৯৮৭জি,এ।এএল-৯।৫৬।-8৫শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-- 
কাঁলকাতার সহ-নগরপাল শ্রী এইচ, টি, পি, ওয়াইটকে পাশ্চমবঞ্গ সেবা 
নিয়মাবলীর (ST খণ্ড) ১৯৮৪৫)২) সংখ্যক 'নিষমানসারে ১লা জুলাই 
১৯৫৬ হইতে গড় বেতনে চার মাসের ছুট প্রদত্ত হইল। 7 


Calcutta.—-No. 2187G.A./5L-9/56.—25th June 
1966.—The (tovernor is pleased to grant 
Shri H. T. P. Wight, Assistant Commissioner of 
Police, Calcuttn,e leave on average pay tor four 
months, with effect from the lst July 1956, under 
rule 184(b)(ii) of the West Bengal Servige Rules, 
Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
T GOSH, Under Secy. 


Gans 


Jails 
NOTIFICATION. 


No. 1658H.J./3S-10 /55.—16th June 1956.—The 
Governor is pleased to re-appoint Shm Radha 
Prosad Gupta, Superintendent, Presidency Jail, to 
the same post for a furtber period of three months 
with effect from the 16th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
J. 0. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


জনা 


Police 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 220471. /P2A-26/53.—19th June 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1), 
and in particular by clause (a) of sub-section (2), 
of section 27 of the Bengal Suppression of 
Immoral Traffic Acj, 1933 ‘tena Act VI of 
1933), the Governor 1s pleased to make, after pre- 
vious publication as টা by sub-section (1) of 
the said section, the following rule, namely : — 


The fee for the inspection by the public of the 
register of houses, r6oms and places within the 
imits of the Asansol Municipality in the distmet 
of Burdwan, in respect of which an order has been 
made under section 6 of the Bengil Suppression of 
Immoral Traffic Act, 1933 (Bengal Act VI of 
1933), maintained by the Superintendent of Police, 
Burdwan, under sub-section (7) of the said sec- 
tign shelithe two rupees. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, Secy. 


POLICE DIRECTORATE 


Orders by the Inspector-General of Police 
West Bengal 


No. 4871A.—12th June  1956.—Wireloss, 
Calcutta-24-Parganas.—The following transfers 
are ordered in the interest of public service:— 


(1) Shri Mahadeb Chandra Das, officiating 
Reserve Ofhce Inspector, Wirelass [ead- 
1 Calcutta, to 24-Parganas, vice 

০. 2. 


(2) Shri Jatindra Mohan Ganguli, Reserve 
Office Inspector, 24-Parganas, to Wire- 
less Headquarters, Calcutta, vice No. 1. 


No. 1 to move first. 
H. N. SIRCAR, Inspr.-Genl. 


Transport 


ORDER 


No, 3543W.T.—25th June 1956.—With a view 
to supplementing railway transport services by 
road transport services according to the need 
from time to time between the States of West 
Bengal and Assam, the Governor, in exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (3) of section 58 
of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1989 (1V of 1939), as 
amended by the Motor Vehicles (West Bengal 
Amendment) Act, 1951, 15 pleased to order the 
State Transport Authority, West Bengal, to limjt 
the period for which countersignature to a permit 
in respect of a transport vehicle for plying 
between the said two States may, after the dategt 
this order, be granted or renewed to one year. 


By oriler of the Governor, 
J. N. TALUKDAR, Secy. 


Sree! 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 3141W.T.—14th June 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 3 of 
the Motor Vehicles International Circulation 
Rules, 1983, as subsequently amended, the Gover- 
nor is pleased hereby to appoint the Deputy Com- 
missioner of Police, Public Vehicles Department, 
Calcutta, in Calcutta, and the District Magistrates 
elsewhere, to be the Competent Authorities for 
the purpose of the said rules. 

2. This notification shall have effect and be 


deemed to have always had effect on and from 
the 26th November 1937. 


No, 3519W.T.—238rd June 1956.—Shiti N. M. 
Chakrabarti hag been re-employed io act as’ 
Administrative Officer under the Directorate of 
Transportation, West Bengal, with effect from 


*the 24th June 1956 until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
J. N. TALUKDAR, Secy. 


=a 


No. 2514W.T.—19th June 1956.—Whereas the 
Calcutta Heckney-carriage Act, 1919 (Bengal Act 
I of 1919), has been extended to the Bhadreswar 
Municipality in the district of Dooghly, under 
clause (a) of section 2 of the said Act; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of section 84 of the 
Caleutta Tlackney-carriage Act, 1919 (Bengal Act 
1 of 1919), the Governor is pleased to appoint 
the Commissioners of thé Bhadreswar Municipality 
in the district of Hooghiy to exercise and perform 
withiy the said manicip ility the same powers and 
duties as are conferred and imposed by the «sul 
Act on the Corporation &f Calcutta and the Com=- 
missioner of Police. 


2594 


THE CAIOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


No. 2613W.T.—19th June 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred 
by sub-section (1) of section 71 of the Calcutta Hackney-carriage Act, 
1919 (Bengal Act I of 1919), the Governor is pleased to make the follww- 
ing by-laws for the Bhadreswar Municipality in the district of Hooghly :-- 


By-laws 


1. Appointment and duties of the Ragistering Officer.—Every cycle 
rickshaw in the Bhadreswar Municipality shall be annually registered by 
w Registering Officer uppointed for registering hackney-carriages. 


2. Qualifications and duties of bearers.—Every person applying for a 
تعنص‎ benrer’s license shull be required to satisfy the Registering 
cer— 


(i) that he knows how to drive and control a cycle-rickshaw and is in all 
respects a fit person for such employment; 


(ii) that he is well acquainted with the principal streets, offices and 
places in and around the town of Bhadreswa=; 


(111) that he has a thorough knowledge of the tables of fares and 
distances prepared by the Commissioners; 


(iv) that he knows the rules of the read aad signals used by the bearers 
and drivers of vehicles and by the trattic police; and 


(v) that he is not less than 18 years of age. 


3. Contents of license.—There shall be attached to each 000 1891160 
to the 10919] of a cycle-rickshaw— 


(a) the thumb mark or signature of. the bearer; 
(b) a photograph of the bearer; and 


(c) a printed table of fares and distances prepared by the Commis- 
sioners, for which no charge shall be paid by the bearer. 


4, Production of license, etc.—Every bearer of a cycle-rickshaw shall 
carry with him his license and shall produce it when else upon to do so 
by any Commisisoner, trattic police or other person authorised by the 
Commmisisoners. He shall exhibit the tables of fares and distances on a 
prominent part of the vehicle. 


5. Prohibition of smoking, etc.—No bearer shall be allowed to smoke 
while driving nor shall he muffle up his face and head in such a manner 
as might endanger the proper driving of his vehicle. 


6. Condition of cycle-rickshaws.—(a) The body of the cycle-rickshaw 
shall be sound end clean and all the boards strong and properly secured. 


(b) The wheels shall be rubber-tyred, strong and sound, so os to run 
smoothly and without rattling or shaking and shall be protected by 
properly fitted splash boards. 


(c) The springs and axles shall be of good metal, strong and properly 
riveted and free from rust. ۶ 


(d) The iron supports at the back shall be properly curved and securely 
fixed on each side, strong and of sound metal and free from rust. 


(e) The hood, apron and cushions shall be made of, and. covered with 
good cloth, canvas or other material approved of by the Commissioners at 
a meeting. 


(f) The staffs shall be of sound wood, strong, securely fixed and 
furnished at the fore-end with a ring-shaped metal support and connected 
by collision guard. . 


(x) The hood and apron shall be so fitted as to make the vehicle water- 
tight. : 


(1) Every cycle-rickshaw shall Have two good lamps—one facing the 
front and the other the rear. 


(1) Each lamp shall have a red glass window in the back and shall be 
so placed that the light from the window may be visible from a point ten 
yards 20.7 of the centre of the vehicle. 


7. Dimensions and pattern of cycle-rickshaw.—All cyclesrickshaws 
shall conform to the following dimensions and be of such pattern as may be 
fixed by the Commissioners at a meeting :— 


Width of the seats—2 feet 3 inches. 
Height of the seats—1 foot 4 inches.’ 
Height of the cushions—4 inches. 


| Part I 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


2505 


Ss Sa rn Sed 


Fees.—The following fees shall be payable annually at the office‏ .8ء 
of the Commissioners. Other fees, which do not come under the following‏ 
scales, shall be fixed by the Commissioners :—‏ 


Rs. a. 
Owner’s license 4 38 
Bearer’s license ° 0 4 
Duplicate ‘license plate لا‎ 8 
Transfer of owner’s license 4 8 
Duplicate of bearer’s license 0 2 
Renewyl of bearer’s license 0 2 


Certified copy of particulars of 
registers and licenses aa 
Alteration in register ay ale 

9, Rates and gfares.—Fares shall be paid according to thé distance or 
time, at the option of the hirer, ما‎ be expressed at the commencement of 
the hiring; and if not otherwise expressed, the fare shall be paid according 
to time— 

(1) Rates and fares to be paid for cycle-rickshaws 

০০০০০৩০১০১১ 


Fare by distance. Fare by time. 


٠ 
For any distance within | For any distance oxceed- 


and not exeseding one ing one mile, 
mile. 
Re. a. 
At tho rate of six annas | For one hour » O 10 
for every mile and for 
Six annas. any part of any mile | For subsequent hour » O 8 
over and above number ۱ 
of miles completed. For half day or 6hours .. 2 4 


For whole day or 9 hours... 4 0 


(2) Speed and haltiny charge 


When a cycle-rickshaw is hired, the bearer shall drive the same at 2 
speed not less than eight miles per hour. تا‎ a cycle-rickshaw after being 
hired is made to halt, halting-charge shall be paid uccording to the 50815 
laid down in the above fare table. 


10. Passengers to pay other charges.—Passengers are to pay the ferry 
and other charges while going to and coming from the railway station 
over and above the rates payable to the bearers of cycle-rickshaws. 


1], Maximum weight to be carried in rickshaws.—The weight of the 
passengers and luggages shall not ordinarily exceed 4 maunds. 


It shall not bé permissible ما‎ any rickshaw bearer to refuse to ply 
except on reavonable grounds. 


12. Advertisement on rickshaws.—No advertisement shall be fixed on 
the body of the cycle-rickshaw without the previous permisison of the 
Commissioners and it shall be fixed at such places as will not cover the 
number'plate and fare table affixed to the cycle-rickshaw. 


13. Gycle-rickshaws to wait at stand.—The cycle-rickshaws, while at 
rest, shall wait at a stand provided by the Oommissioners for such purpose. 


14. Power of entry.—Ilt shall be lawful for a Commissioner or any 
other person authorised in that behalf by the Chairman or the 00871711981 088978) 
ut any time between sunrise and sunset, to enter any premisea in which 
any licensed cycle-rickshaw or other things used therewith are kept, in 
order to carry out any provision of the Calcutta Hackney-curriage Act, 
1919, or these by-laws, und the owner or occupier of the premises or his 
agent shall afford every facility for inspection by such Commissioner or 


person, 

15. Tables of fares and distances. —T'he Commissioners shall cause to 
be prepared and kept for sale to the publio printed tables setting forth 
the fares and distances at a price fixed hy the Commissioners. 


16, Particulars of registers.—The following particulars shall be 
entered in the registers and licenses under the Caleutta Hackney-curriage 


919 سب‎ 
Act, 19 (a) Cycle-rickshaw bearer’s license. 


111] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 0, 1956 2625 


৯... 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OP 

INCOME-TAX (CENTRAL), CALCUTTA, 

, ORDERS. 

No, 8822/C0.T.C, /2K-21 /55-56.—22nd June 1956. 
—Shri A. L. Jha, Inspecting Assistant Cuommia- 
sioner of Income-tux, Range | (Central), Calcutta, 
was granted earned leave under Revised Teare 
Rules, 1933, for thirteen days with effect from the 
4th June to 16th June 1956 with permission to 


prefix Sundays the 8rd and 17th June 1956 to 
the leave, 


2. Shri K. Srinivasan, lnspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Range 111] (Central), 
Calcutta, was appointed to hold eharge of the 
Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Range I (Central), Calcutta, in addition to his 
own, vice Shri A. .ا‎ Jha, granted leave. 


1, Shn A. L. Jha has been re-posted as 
Inspecting Assistant Commissioner ot Income-tax, 
Range I (Central), Calcutta, with effect from the 
forenoon of 18th June ‘1956 on his rejoming 
after expiry of the leave. 


V. 5. K. D. NADAR, Commissioner. 


Gena 


No. ا0ھ‎ দি 96-01.- 241] June 1956 
—Shri 8. 11. Gokhale, Income-tax Officer, (rade 
I, who has been transferred to his charge {rom the 
“Calcutta” charge by the Central Board of 
Revenue in their order F, No, 67/1/56-Adin ৮] 
dated 4th June 1966, is, with eftect from the 0 
June 1966 (afternoon), appointed to hold charge 
of Income-tax Officer, Central, Circle VI, Culcutta, 
relieving Shm D. G. Pradhan, Income-tax Officer, 
Central Circle VI, Caleutta. of the additional 
charge of Central Circle I, Calcutta, held by him. 


Shri 1]. C. Sen, Income-tax Officer, Grade 1, 
who has heen transferred to this charge from the 
“Caleutia’’ charge by the Central Board 01 
Revenue in their order 1, No. 57/1/56-Adin.VI, 
dated 4th June 1956, is, with effect from the 1810) 
June 1956 (forenoon), mppointed to hold charge 
of the Income-tax Officer, Central Circle VII, 
Caleutta, relieving Shri N. Subba Rao, [ncome- 
tax Officer, Central Cirele VIII, Caleytta, of the 
additional charge of Central Circle VII, ) ٠ 


held by him. 
CORRIGENDUM. 

No. 3416/C.T.C. /2E-4/56-57.—26th June 1996. 
—In the fifth line of the order No. 49340) T.C.; 
2K-4/56-57, dated the 28rd June 1956, read 
nae Cirele-T” in place of “Central Cirele— 


R. N. BAGCHYI, for Commissioner. 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 6614F.8./D.0.8./10A-32/48Pf.—25th June 
1956.—The Governor is pleased tv appoint 
Shri J. N. Roy, Special Officer IT (Inspertion) 10 
{he Department of Food, Relief and Supplies 
(Food and Supplies Branch), to act temporarily us 
Special (fficer (Iuspection) in the same department 
with effect from 181 June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. MITRA, Dy. Secy. 


2628 THE CAIMUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1986 | Parr I 
পু 


Relief 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 2761F.R.—2lst June 1966.—The Governor 
is pleased to appoint Shri Naresh Chand,a Mitra, 
officiating Assistant Secretary, Food, Relief and 
Supplies (Relief) Department substantively to the 
permanent post of Assistant Secretary to the Cov- 
‘ernment in the same department created in Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Food, Relief and Sup- 
plies (Relief) Department, letter No, 1. 
dated the 2lat June 1956, with effect from the 
Cth June 1986. 


By order of the Governor, 
ও. K. GUPTA, Jt. Secy. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2629‏ | ] ى5 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 
ORDER 


No. 2663])is. hii died ai aly June 1956.—Whereas under the 
(Jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4981Dis. /D/ 
101.-118/55, dated the 8th October 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. India Metal Manufacturing Companys Ltd., 237Q Manicktola Main 
Road, Caleutta-11, and their workmen represented by India Metal Mazdoor 
Union, 242/2 Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta-11, regarding the matters 
spevifiel in the schedule thereto was referred for Adjudication to the Sixth 
Industrial Tribunal; : 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
publish the suid award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. India Metal 
Manufacturing Company, Ltd., 2310 Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta- 
11, and their worknien represented by India Metal Mazdoor Union, 
242/2 Manicktola Main ‘Road, Calcutta-11 (Case No. VI11-323/55). 


BUTONE THE SIXTH INDPSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA. 


٠ PreESFNT: 


Surr SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Surth Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : 
For the Company: Shri Kunja Behari Mookherjee, Director of the Com- 
pany. 


For the Union: Shri Naren Sen, General Secretary of the Union. - 


Disputes between Messrs. India Metal Manufacturing Co., Ltd., and their 
employees 0 baffled solution through the process of conciliation, the 
(tovernment of West Bengal, by order No. 4981Dis./D/10L-118/55, dated 
Calcutta, the 8th October 1955, referred for adjudication the following 
issues : — 


(1) Is the lock-out of the factory with effect from 13th December 
justified P 


(2) What relief are the workmen’ entitled to for the period of lock-out? 


The lot of the workers, according to the written statement filed by the 
Union, was extremely hard. The scale of wages was low and there was no 
security of service. No provision was made for retirement benefits. In 
order to improve their lot the workers organised a Union. The Directors of 
the Company were displeased on the formation of the Union and started 
harassing operations. Some leading members of the Union were victimised 
but on the intervention of the Labour Commissioner, one of the discharged 
workmen was reinstated. 


2630 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 10660 [Parr | 


» On the 10th of September 1954, the Union: submitted a demand for 
Puja bonus. Nothing fruitful however resulted froin discussions that had 
taken place between the management and the representative of the work- 
men. A charter of demand was presented on the 3rd of November 1904. 
The management showed no inelination to treat these demands in a fair and 
responsive spirit. Driven to desperation the workers went on strike for one 
day. As a counter blast the Compary declared lock-out on 111) December 
1954. Since then though willing the workers have been prevented from 
going back to their duty as the Company persisted in continuing the lock-out. 


The written statement filed on behalf of the Company traversed the 
grounds raised in the Union statement. Regarding the action taken aguinst 
some workers which in the estimation of the workers was a measure of 
reprisal for inauguration of the Union, the Company’s reply is that they 
had caused heavy damage and financial loss by wilful acts and were rightly 
dismissed. It was not a fact that on aecount of the organisation of the 
Union the Company had started hostile operations against the members. 
The employees went on strike on 10th December 1954 without any previous 
warning or notice. The fact was communicated to the Labour Commissioner 
who addressed a letter asking the employees to resume work immediately. 
Vhe advise thus tendered fell on deaf ¢ars. The strike was continued and 
on the 13th December 1954, the Company was forced to declare a lock-out. 
The employees had gone on strike without justification and the lock-out was 
the sequel. They are not entitled to any relief. 


issues Nos. 1 and 2.—In the written statement of the workers sone allega- 
tions were made that the formation of the Union had flicked the! Directors 
on the raw. To take the wind out of the sail of the Union, the aythorities 
started persecuting the workers. Some prominent members tell victims to 
their rancour. The Company produced a letter Ext. B(1) addressed to the 
Secretary of the Unidn by the Assistant Secretary to the Government of 
West Bengal, Labour Department, intimating that on enquiry Government 
was satisfied that the workmen concerned were negligent in discharging their 
duties resulting in financial loss to the Company. The charges brought 
against them were bona fide. The Union’s grievance that the dJeading 
members of the organisation were victimised appears دز‎ the face of this 
communication to be frivolous. There was discharge 20 another person who 
was however reinstated on the recommendation.of-the Labour -Cemmissioner. 
So far the Company’s record appeurs quite clean. 


The demand for Puja honus was made by letter Ext. l(a), dated the 
10th of September 1954, The case of the Company is that its financial 
position was so unstable and precarious that the demand could not be sutis- 
fied. It uppears that the paid up capital of the business at Ns inuuguration 
was Rs. 49,000. The number*of workers employed is 32. The business was 
not started under favourable auspices for, a loan had to be taken from the 
(tovernment to the extent of Its. 24,000. The loan was repayable by instul- 
ments. Two instalments were paid but the 3rd instalment was defaulted. 
The result was that the Government took charge of the business. This dixmal 
history confirms the version presented on behalf of the Company that the 
financial: position not being sound the demand of the workers could not be 
inet. ' 


The charter of demands Ext. 100) was submitted on the 8rd of Novem- 
ber 1954. The Company could not see its way to give effect to the demands. 
As the workers could not obtain satisfaction of the demands, they went on 
strike on 10th December 1964. They went to the workshop but did not do 
any work. They remained in the workshop kicking their heels for the whole 
day. O.P.W. 1 Shri Kunja Behari Mookerjee one of the Directors went to 


Part 1| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2631 


the office of the Labour Commissioner and gave him information in writing 
(vide 146 B2) that the workers had gone on a stay-in strike. The Labour 
(‘commissioner issued a letter (Ext. 13) to the Secretary of the Union on the 
same day advising htm to persuade the workers to resume normal work. A 
copy was handed over to P.W. 1. His evidence is that returning to the 
workshop he put up a notice Ext. A(1) but it gid not work. The next day 
was a Saturday. According to 0.P.W.°1. the employees entered the work- 
shop and repeated the performance of the previous day by sitting idle. He 
went to the Labour Commissioner’s office once again and gave information 
by 1167 Ext. A(3). Returning toethe workshop he got the notice Ext. A(2) 
posted up. In this notice it is stuted that in spite of the uotice given the 
previous day, the workers had abstained from resuming duty up to 2 p.m. 
The Company would be forced to close down the business. The case of the 
Union 1s that on Saturday the workers flocked at the gate with the intention 
of restarting work but they were not allowed admission. The durwan told 
them that he had orders to keep the gates closed until the strike matter was 
finally settled. As against the evidence of P.W. 1 the Company has got 
the evidence of O.P.W. 1 Shri Kunja Behari Mookherjee, one of the Direc- 
tors of the Company and the durwan (0O.P.W. 2) Radha Pandey. The 
Tribunal was impressed by the transparent truthfulness of the witness Shri 
Kunja Behari Mookherjee. The evidence given by him bears the ring of 
truth. The durwan also gave his evidence in a straightforward way. ٤ 
we consider in this context that 0.۲7.۲۷۰. 1 had gone to the office to inform 
the Labour Commissioner that despite his good counsel the workers were 
holding back, persisting in continuing the strike and that the notice Ext. 
A(2). was posted up, I am not prepared to believe that the gate was kept 
closed and all the move taken was exhibitionism. On the 18th which was 
a Monday. the Company published lock-out notice Ext. A. The point for 
consideration 1s 11 the strike was justifiéd. Justification of a strike depends 
to a large extent upon whether or not the parties had tried all other avail- 
able means of setting the disputes according to law. The right to strike is 
a recognised weapon of the workers to be used as a last resort when all other 
avenues of settlement of industrial disputes have proved futile. In the 
present iystance the Union did not explore all avenues of settlement by 
peaceful mneans before advising its members to take the extreme step. When 
the Company’s attitudé was found to be unresponsive the Union might seek 
intervention of the Conciliation Officer and have conciliation proceeding 
started. Instead of taking that course, the Union or for the matter of that, 
the workers went on strike. Not having exhausted all possible megns of 
82111010109 settlement,*the workers must be held ty have gone on a strike which 
was unjustified. On the Company’s evidence the Tribunal is satisfied that 
the situation did not improve on the following day. The workers remained 
in the workshop déwning thelr tools. The lock-out declared ‘by the Company 
was hence fully justified. No adverse finding 0811 be made against the Com- 
pany for the action it had taken, in view of the conduct of the workers. 
Since the lockout was justified, the workers cannot legitimately claim any 
relief for the period of lock-out. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


S. SENGUPTA, Judge. 
S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Sixth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 8th June 1956. 


۱ By order of the Governor, 
D. 8S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2632 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr 1 


ORDER = 


No. 2660Dis./D/111L-88/55.—16th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
(Joverninent of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2813Dis. /D/ 
A1L-30;54, duted the Ist June 1954, the industrial’ dispute between the 
(grand Hotel, 15/2 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta and their employees 
represented by Grand Hotel Employees’ Union, 3 Ram 11881 Mistry Lane, 
Calcutta-13, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto, was 
referred for adjudication to the Third Industrial ‘Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal, 
a complaint was filed before it against'the said Company by Jonab Nur 
Islam, a workman of the said Company, alleging that the said Company 
had altered, to the prejudice of the said workman, the conditions of service 
applicable to him immediately before the commencement of the said 
proceedings ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and gubmitted its award to the State 
(Giovernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV af 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
16) publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 
1950, filed by Jonab Nur Islam against Messrs. Crand Hotel in connec- 
পশু a order No. 2813015۰/0 '11L-30/54, dated the 

st June ৪ 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA. 
PRESENT : 
SHRI J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


Miscellaneous cage No. 176 of 1955 under section 33A of the Industial 
Disputes Act. 


Jonab Nur Islam, polisher No.,698, C/o Grand Hotel 
Employees’ Union, 7B Rani Rashmon Road, 


Calcutta ... Petitioner, 
VETSUSs » 
Messrs. Grand Hotel, 15/2 Chowringhee Road, 
Calcutta ےم‎ Oppostte Party. 


For the Petitioner: Shri Jagannath Pandey. 
For the Opposite Party: Shri 8. 6. Sen, Advocate, 


AWARD 


This is ام‎ complaint under aection 33A of_the Industrial Disputes Act 
filed on 4th August 1955 by workman, Jonab Nur Islam, who was a polisher 
in the opposite party Hotel. He allewed that he was জর suspended 
{rom Ist April 1955 during the pendency of an adjudication proceeding 
before this Tribunal; that the subsequent decision of the management to 
dismiss |him was unjust and unwarranted; that the petitioner had only 
suggested to Shri A. K. Sep Roy that a particular polish might be more 


Part J} THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2633 


suitable and thus committed no offence and that the opposite party was 


delaying filing petition under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act for 
obvious reasons. 


On these allegations the petitioner prayed for an award directing with- 
drawal of the suspension order as also management’s decision to dismiss tlie 
petitioner from service, ٠ : 


The opposite party Grand Hotél opposed the application. It contended 
that the application under section 33A was not mainteinable and pleaded the 
circumstances in which the petitioner was suspended and the subsequent 
decision to dismiss him was taken. It was said that both the suspension 
and the decision to dismiss the petitioner were just and proper and that there 
was no intentional delay to apply under section 33 seeking permission to 
dismiss him. 


DECISION 


The petitioner was admittedly a polisher in the opposite party Grand 
Hotel working directly at the relevant time under the Paint Technologist ot 
the opposite party, Shri A. K. Sen Roy (2506 D.W.1). The Engineer of the 
opposite party, Shri B. K. Ghosh (D°W. 1) was the head of the department 
(ode P.W. 1). The petitioner was directed by Shri A. K. Sen Roy to use 
a new polish. The petitioner did not admittedly use the new 
polish as directed by Shri Sen Roy (ude ط‎ W. 1). So 
after interrogation on 3)et March 1955, Shri A. K. Sen 
Roy made written complaint (Ext. A) of insubordination against the pcti- 
tioner to the Engineer, Shri B. K. Ghosh. It was inter alw stated therein 
that notwithstanding his direction the petitioner réfused to use the new 
polish and that he was not only insubordinate but rude and insolent, and 
that the petitioner sdid that he would not obey either the Engineer’s or his 
instruction regarding polishing. Qn receipt of the said complaint the 
Engineer, Shri B. K. Ghosh (D.W. 1), sent for the petitioner and asked 
him to explain his conduct tor refusing to obey the order of Shri Sen Roy 
and for having been insolent and ryde to him. D.W. 1 further deposed that 
upon this the petitioner said that he was not bound to give explanation to 
him nor was he bound to carry out the instructions. Thereupon the Eng- 
neer D.W. 1 forwarded the written complaint of Shri Sen Roy (Ext. A) 
with his remarks (Ext. B) to the Manager of the opposite party Grand Hotel 
on that very day (81st March 1955). In the written report (Ext. B), the 
Engineer stated that on receipt of the réport of Shri Sen Roy he called for 
the petitioner and asked him to éxplain why he was insolent and disobedient 
to Shri Sen Roy. It was further stated that the petitioner reiterated that 
he would not obey anybody’s order from the Engineering Department 000 
that if the heads of the department so desired they could take any action 
they liked. Therefore, the Manager of the opposite party Grand Hotel, 
D.W. 2 Mr. Cecil Bernard Benson, issued a charge-sheet on Ist April 1959’ 
to the petitioner quoting from thd written complaint of Shr A. K. Sen Roy 
as already referred to. The petitioner was asked to submit his explanation 
to the charge by 2nd April 1955 and he was suspended with immedinte effect 
pending enquiry. 


On 2nd April 1955 the Manager of the opposite party Grand Hotel fixed 
4th April 1955 at 11 a.m. for enquiry and the petitioner was notified to he 
present at the time (Ext. 2). Als notified, the enquiry was held by the 
Manager on 4th April 1955 when the Chief Engineer, Skri B. K. Ghosh 
(D.W. 1) and the petitioner (P.W. 1) were present. Shri A. K. Sen Roy 
could not attend the enquiry having had in the meanwhile left for Gopalpur- 
on-sea on hotel duties in connection with the impending visit of the Prime 
Minister in the hotel there. Shri A. K. Sen Roy had also since left service 
of the opposite party Grand Hbtel. 


2634 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Part ] 


Exhibit E is the minutes of the enquiry held on the 4th April 1955 at 
the office of {he Manager, Mr. Benson at 11 a.m. The petitioner admitted 
that he did not use the new paint ae Shri Sen Roy had asked him to do 
so. Thus the main charge against the petitioner of having flouted Shri 
Sen Roy was admitted and proved. The petitioner also admitted Shri B. K. 
Ghosh’s charge that the petitioner said that he would not give any explana- 
tion to anyone except the Manager. The petitioner was thus insuboidinate 
and insolent il Ag On conclysion of such enquiry the petitioner was 
intimated by a letter, dated 21st April 1955, that the management decided 
to dismiss him from service in view of his refusal to carry out the instruc- 
tions of Shri A. K. Sen Roy regarding the polish to be used and in view of 
his attitude towards the superiors, and that 16 was making necessary applica- 
tion under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act for permission in that 
respect ard that until such permission was obtained, he (the petitioner) 
would continue to be unde: order of suspension (vide Ext. F). 


The petitioner admittedly did not receive any other communication 
subsequently. In his complaint under section 833A filed on 4th August 1900, 
it was also admitted that the opposite party did not dismiss him but kept 
him under suspension pending permission from the Tribunal. Said suspen- 
sion in the circumstances wos therefore not punishment within clause (b) of 
section 38. It cannot, therefore, be said that section 33 was :contravened. 
Section 834 of the Act allows a complaint only if section 33 Had been con- 
travened by the employer. As there has been no such violatign, the com- 
plaint under sertion 33A, it is obvious, is not maintainable. Nat only there 
was no such violation but, on the other hand, the opposite party made appli- 
cation under section 33 seeking permission from the Tribuna) to dismiss the 
petitioner. The fact of delay in making the said application would not by 
itself constitute a violation. The foundation for a complaint under 
section 383A is a ‘“‘contravention’’ of section 33 and there cannot be a con- 
travention of that provision when the employer applied for permission. 


On merits ton, on the facts and the circumstances as disclosed, I find 
nothing to impugn the action of the management. The question for consi- 
deration would be whether the case falls within any of the exceptions men- 
tioned in Buckingham & Carnatic Mills, Ltd. In the case before me, there 
is no question of want of bona fides, victimisation or unfair labour practice 
or violation of the principles of natural justice nor does any basic error of 
fact arise. Of course the application under section 83 was not earlier 
presented, but it appears that it was unintentional. The evidence shows 
that the officer of the opposite party Hotel who was dealing with these cases 
was away from the station in connection with the Hotel duties. Neither in 
the complaint nor in his evidence the petitioner could suggest any unfair 
motive on the part of the opposite party Hotel. It, therefore, appears that 
the action of the opposite party was not actuated by an indirect motive or 
want of good faith but was the result of the requirement of the situation. 
In this view of the matter, I am of opinion that the complaint must fail 
both on preliminary ground and on merits, 


Tt is awarded accordingly. 
Dictated and corrected by me. 


J. MAITRA, Judge. JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 


Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 
The 9th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Pani 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2635 


ORDER 


No. 2694Dis, /1)/11L-79(C) /55,—19th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3574Dis./D/ 
হা 5), dated the 410 August 1955, read with its corrigenduin 
No, 916]hs. /D ‘'111-79(C)/55, dated the 7th March 1956, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. National Tobacco Company of India, Ltd., Agar- 
par, 24-Puarganas, and one of their employees Shri Suresh Chandra Sarkar, 
represented hy National Tobacco Company Employees’ Union, Nilgunj Road, 
1১, QO, Kamarhatty, 24-Parganas, regarding the matters specified in the 
schedule to the said order, dated the 4th August 1955, was referred for 
adjudication to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. National 
Tobacco Company, Ltd., Agarpara, 24-Parganas, and one of their 
‘employees, Shri Suresh Chandra Sarkar, represented by National 
Tobacco Company Employees’ Union, Nilgunj Road, P. 0, Kamar- 
hatty, 24-Parganas (Case No. ۷۱۱۱۰239 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGATI,, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 


۱ PRESENT ۰ 
Sunt SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sizth Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances: 
For the Company: Shri Sankar Ghosh, Buar.-at-law. 
For the Union: Shri Jiten Banerjee. 


The reference made by the Government of West Bengal, Labour Depart- 
ment, by order No. 3574Dis. /D/11L-79(c) /55, dated Calcutta, the 4th August 
1955, and subsequent corrigendum No. 916Dis./D/11L-79(c)/55, dated 
Calcutta, the 7th March 1956, relates to a dispute between Messrs. National 
Tohacco Company? Ltd., and one of their employees Shri Suresh Chandra 
Sarkar arising out of the dismissal of the said employee. 


Schedule 


Is the dismissal of Shri Suresh Chandra Sarkar justified? To what relief by 
way of reinstatement and/or compensation is he entitled ? 


The employee’s grievance is that he was rendering meritorious service 
but had the misfortune to incur the ill-will of the chemist Shri 8. B. Dhar 
on account of his not rendering a personal service required by Shri Dhar. 
On the plea that reorganisation was necessary Shri Suresh Chandra Sarkar 
was served with a notice of discharge on 31st October 1952. As a matter of 
fact this action was taken not for the purpose of reorganisation but because 
he had fallen out of favour. This is a glaring instance of victimisation and 
unfair labour practice. 


The Company took a preliminary objection that this is not an industrial 
dispute and hence the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to enter into an adjudica- 
tion of the issue by the Government. It is also urged that there was no pre- 
existing dispute at the time of termination of service of this employee and 


2636 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [ Paxr 1 


উস 
আর, سج کو‎ 


hence he was not a workman as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act. On 
the merits the. Company's case is that in the yeur 1952, the Company'a 
business had suffered a set-batk. There was diminution of the volume of 
work. Retren¢hment was accordingly tndispensibly necessary. There was 
no sufficient work to keep this employee engaged. Notice of discharge was 
accordingly served on him for retren¢thment. Regarding the allegation that 
ou account of his failure to render personal service to the chemist he had 
incurred the displeasure 91 the chemist and the Factory Manager, the Com- 
pany’s case is that it was part of the duty of the employee to purchase rail- 
way ticket for the Company’s employees. He had tailed to do what waé 
his ordinary duty and was reprimanded! for disobedience of order by the 
Factory Manager. There was however no action taken against him. It 18 
a figment of his imagination that he has been victimised for failure to 
purchase railway ticket for the chemist. In view of the legal objection 
taken, an additional issue is framed in the following terms :— 


Issue No, 2.—Is the dispute an industrial one which the Tribunal 18 
competent to adjudicate upen? 


Issue No. &—At the date of the reference the dispute was between 
68815, National Tobaceo Co., Ltd., and an individual worker who was 
engaged in single combat with the Company. The other employees of the 
Company were not interested in the dispute and had taken no\part therein. 
No union or association had espoused the cause of this employed Shri 911 681) 
Chandra Sarkar who was fighting his own cause single-handed. This 
Tribunal has held that an individual dispute of this type is not an indus- 
trial dispute (vide 1956, 1, L.L.J., page 138, and 1956, 1.L.L.J., page 356). 


The order of reference was amehded hy Government order No. 916])is. | 
D/11L-79(e)/55, dated the 7th March 1956. The employee was described 
as represented 1) National Tobacco Company Employees’ Union. The 
question has arisen whether by this amendment the dispute has been con- 
verted into an industrial dispute. On other occasions I had to consider the 
effect of amendment of this nature. Two awards passed by me on this 
subject are published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 26th 4001 1956, at 
page 472 and June 7, 1956, at page 2156. Broadly speaking, my view on the 
point at issue is that (30৮61111017 can amend an order of reference to correct 
clerical errors or make good omissions and oversight. When the ground of 
amendment is some development taking place after the date of the reference 
when the Tribunal is in seisin, the Government is not the authority to make 
alterations. On the date of reference an individual employee was agitating 
for redress of his grievances. If during the pendency of the proceeding 
before the Tribunal he managed to persuade any Union to conduct his case, 
that would not create anv occasion for amendment of the reference. It 18 
entirely for the Tribunal to consider if such intervention will have any effect 
upon the proceeding started on the reference as made. Even if it 1s conceded 
that the cause of the employee heing taken up by a trade union, the dispute 
is transformed into an industrial dispute, the employee concerned secures no 
advancement of his interest inasmuch as the dispute so converted was not 
before the Tribunal on the reference made by Government. The conversion 
cannot be made to be operative from the date of the original reference. 


On behalf of the employee an argument was pressed that the case of 
Shri Santosh Bhattacherjee dealt with by the Tribunal] on the earlier occasion 
stands on a different footing from the present one inasmuch دہ‎ the Wnion 
which came to the aid of §}. Bhattacherjee was of an alien character, whereas 
in the instant case the Union is a body representing the workers of Messrs. 
National Tobacco Company. I do not think that this distinction makes any 
difference. In the first place, J have taken the view that the Government 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1996 2637 


পক সস 


has no power to make this sort of amendment and secondly that the amend- 
ment would not relate back to the date of the order of referetice. 


A marked line of distinction has been drawn between a Union merely 
helping an employee, who, it thinks, should be helped and fts taking up his 
cause as one which affects the general body of workmen and adopting it as 
its own. The distinction has been emphasised in the case reported in 1955, 
2, L.L.J., page 477. Ifa Union merely renders assistance to an emplovee 
without actually making the question an issue betw%en itself and the employer 
it remains an individual disputé. The Tribunal] has therefore to take stock 
of events that has happened since the date of the reference. The learned 
spokesman for the employee produced before me a letter addressed by the 
employee to the Assistant Labour Commissioner which I have marked X. 
In this letter Shrijut Sarkar stated that he did not desire to represent the 
case by himeelf. He had therefore authorised the Assistant Secretary, 
National Tobacco Employees’ Union, to represent the case, on his behalf, 
adding that he would also be present with him for the purpose. It was 
further stated that 16 was difficult on his part to represent the case himself 
without co-operation and help of the Union. The letter addressed hy the 
Assistant Secretary of the National Tobacco Co., Ltd., Employees’ Union to 
Assistant Labour Commissioner on 23rd January 1956 has been found in 
the file of the Lahour Department called for by the Tribunal. The letter is 
reproduced below: 


Tur ASSISTANT LABOUR COMMISSIONER, Murermonat, 
BaRRACKPORF, 


Dated 23rd January 1956. 
Dear "18, 


We thank you for your order No. 36574Dis./)/11L-79-55, dated 4th 
August 1955, referring the dispute between Messrs. National Tobaceo Cu. 
of India, Ltd., Agarpara, 24-Parganas, and Shri Suresh Chandra Sarkar, 
4 পন (that Road, Kamarhatty, 24-Parganas, to the Sixth Industrial 
Tribunal. 


In this counection we desire to inform you that Shri Suresh Chandra 
Sarkar is nuw represented by the National Tobacco Employees’ Union and 
বা therefore request you to issue an amended order of reference quoted 

elow: 
National Tobacco Co., of India Ltd., 
Agarpara, 24-Parganas 
VETSUS 
Suresh Chandra Sarkar, represented 
by National Tobacco Employees’ 
Union, Kamarhatty, 24-Parganas. 


We would like to apprise you that this amendment is essential to put 
an effective defence. 


Please do the needful as early as possible. 


Yours faithfully, 
Sk. KHALIL, Asstt. Secretary, 
National Tobacco Employees’ Union. 


1. 


The latter read in conjunction with Shri Suresh Chandra Sarkar’s letter io 
the Union makes it abundantly clear that the Union was persmaded to take 
up the cudgels on behalf of*the employee to conduct the case before the 


2638 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr ] 


Tribunal. The representation was not of any wider range. The Union 
did not adopt the cause as-its own and turn the dispute into a collective dis- 
pute. This sort of representation 1s not equivalent to espousal of the cause 
as contemplated in the case reported above. The Union did not make the 
employee’s cause its own in the sense that it considered the interests involved 
of general importance desiring its active support in furtherance of its policy 
und the ereed it has undertaken to Uphold and propagate. In the result 
1 hold that the individual dispute has not been converted into an industrial 
dispute. 11 was an individual dispute at its origin and remains so even 
though for purposes of representation before the Tribunal, the Union has 
entered the arena of conflict. 


The learned Counsel also dwelt upon the question whether a discharged or 
dismissed employee would be a workman as defined in the Act if there be no 
pre-existing dispute. The matter is highly controversial. J do not think it 
necessary to start an investigation of the question since on the other point 
denlt with above the conclusion follows that the dispute is an individual 
dispute and as such outside the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. 


Having uo jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the issue referred by the 
Government, I do not find 16 necessary to enter into a discussion on the 
merits. 


This is my award. 


Dietated and corrected by me. 
S. SENGUPTA, S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge, 1৩1,৮11) Industrial Tribunal. Judge, Strth Industrial Tribunal. 


The llth June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D.S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 2733Dis./D/11L-53/55.—21st June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4045Dis./D/- 
11L-54/55, dated the 9186 August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, proprietors, Messrs. B. 
N. Elias & Co., Ltd., Norton Buildings, 1 and 2 Old Court House Corner, 
Calcutta-1, and their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, Bansberia, Elooghly, regarding the matters snerified in the schedule 
thereto was referred for adjudication to the second Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribu- 
nal, a complaint was filed before it against the said Company by 
Abdul Mia and forty other workmen of the said Company, alleging that the 
said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said workmen, the con- 
ditions of service applicable to them immediately before the commence- 
ment of the said proceedings; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
00 ۶۱۰ 


_ Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 11 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2639 


: ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by Abdul Mia and 40 others, workmen 0. Messrs. 
Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, represented by Empire Bone 
Mills Mazdoor Union, Bansberia, against Messrs. B. N. Elias & Co., 
Ltd., proprietors of the above Bone Mills. 


BEFORE THK SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suri G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal, 


Appearances : 


For the employees: Shri J. Pandey, Advocate. 


For the Company: Mr. E. D. Ezra, Solicitor of Messrs. Victor Mosses & 
('o., Solicitors. 


AWARD 


This is a complaint filed by the ahove workmen under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act against their employers. The original reference, 
out of which this complaint has arisen, was made under Government order 
No. 4045Dis./D/11L-53/55, dated 9186 August 1999. 


The petitioners’ case is that during the pemdency of the original refer- 
ence before this Tribunal, the Opposite Party continued lay-off of the 
petitioners without the permission of the Tribunal, and thus section 33 of 
the Act was contravened. Accordingly, the petitioners prayed for payment 
of full wages for the period of lay-off, that is from 3lst August 1955 to 
4th September 1955. 


The application was resisted by the Opposite Party. It denied that 
there was any violation of section 33 of the Act, and contended that the 
application was not maintainable. According to the Opposite Party, such 
lay-off was a condition of service. 


I do not like 10 enter into the details or merits of the case, as on the 
date of hearing’ the Joint Secretary of the Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union filed a petition as per Annexure before the Tribunal that the peti- 
tioners for reasons stated therein wanted leave to withdraw the applica- 
tion under section 33A. The Opposite Party’s representative also stated 
that he had no objection, if the Tribunal allowed the application to be 
withdrawn. In the circumstances, I find no reason as to why I shall not 
allow withdrawal of the application as prayed for. So, the application 
riage section 33A of the Act is allowed to be withdrawn. I make no order 
or costs. 


The case 15 disposed of accordingly. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
13-6-56. 


The 13th June 1956. 


2640 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 (Part ] 


ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, GOVERNMENT 
OF WEST BENGAL : 


In the mater of industrial dispute 
under order of reference No. 4045/D/- 
11L-53/55, dated 810 ۲ August, 1955 

Between 

B. N. Elias & Co., Ltd., proprietor, 

»Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia 
And 

In the matter of petition under sec- 
tion 98 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. 

Abdul Mia and 40 others represented 
under authority by Empire Bone Mills 
Mazdoor Union, Bansberia, district 
Hooghly می‎ Petitioner, 


v8. 
B. N. Elias & Co., proprietor, Empire 
Bone Mills, | Bansberia, district 
Hooghly wee Opposition Party. 
The humble petition on \behalf of 
the petitioners. 
MOST RESPECTFULLY SHEWESH: 


That the petitioners have been advised and also it is apparent from the 
award on similar issue and same kind of petition in this Tribunal that the 
lay-off does not constitute the contravention of section 33, and as such the 
petition under 88660 994 is not attracted. 


That the petitioners have been further advised that the case can lie 


on reference by the Government, and adequate remedy can be obtain-‏ ا 
able.‏ 


Under the above, the petitioners have made up their mind to tuke resort 
to such measure as are advisable and in consonance with law and are 


therefore thought fit to move the Government for a reference of the dispute 
to a Tribunal. 


Hence, under the premises as above, the petitioners crave leave to with- 
draw the aforesaid petition which is done herewith, and it is prayed that 


the Honourable Tribunal will be graciously pleased to permit the withdrawal 
of the said petition. 


And for this act of kindness, the petitioners shall ever pray. 


D. N. TRIVEDI, 
Joint Secretary, 
Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union. 
13-6-1956. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 13th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. ৪. ?. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


1' ٢١ 11 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 264] 


ORDER 


No. 2734Dis. /D/10L-26/55.—21st June 1956.—Whereas under the 
(jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department order No. 5524Dis./D/- 
1011-45159, dated the 26th November 1954, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. G. T. .ا(‎ Co., Ltd., 37 Dum Dum Road, Calcutta-30, and their 
workman represented by G. T. R..Workers’ Union, 1 Joy Bhattacharjee 
Tine, Calcutta-3, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
wus teferred for adjudication to the Third Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribu- 
nal, a complaint was filed before it against the said Company by Shri Subal 
Chandra Guha and Shri Kanai Lal Mukherjee, workmen of the said Com- 
pany, alleging that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the 
৪91] two workmen, the conditions of service applicable to them immediately 
before the commencement of the said proceedings; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 


adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


_ Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33۸ of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1960, 8160 by Shri Subal Chandra Cuha and Shri Kanai Lal 
Mukherjee against Messrs. C. T. লি, Co. Private, Ltd., in connection 
with Government order No. 5524Dis./D/10L-45/53, dated the 26th 
November 4. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 


Suri J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


Miscellaneous Case No. 35 of 1858 under section 33A of the Industrial 


Disputes Act 
versus 
Shri Subal Chandra Guha and Shri Kanai Lal Mukherjee, 
1 Joy Bhattacharjee Lane, Calcutta .. Petittoners, 
versus 
Messrs. (3. T. R.-Co., Private, Ltd., 37 Dum Dum Road, 
Calcutta-30 .. Opposite Party. 


For the Petitioners: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharya. 
For the Opposite Party: Shri N. M. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


2642 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr 1 


بکے سس ےچ سس ےک ھجک Se‏ 
AWARD‏ 


This 18 1 complaint under section 388A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
by workmen Shri Subal Chandra Guha and Shri Kanai Lal Mukherjee. 
They complained that during the pendency of the adjudication proceed- 
ings in respect of the industrial dispute between the opposite party Com- 
pany and their workmen when they atténded the Tribunal on 24th January 
1956 in connection with the said proceedings, the opposite party Company 
refused to pay wages for tle said day and thus contravened the provisions 


of section 93. 


The opposite party Company denied having contravened the provisions 
of section 33 and pleaded that as the workmen did not obtain permission 
from the opposite party Company to attend the Tribunal on 24th January 
1946, thev were treated as having absented from work in an unauthorised 
maner und accordingly they were refused wages for that date. 


DECISION 


On Ist June 1956 when the case came up for hearing, the parties filed 
n joint petition of compromise. The workmen undertook to apply: for leave 
in such cases beforehand in future. In the circumstances thd opposite 
party Company agreed to pay wages to them for 24th J anuary 1956. The 
terms are fair. I accordingly accept the petition of compromise and make 
my award in terms thereof. The petition of compromise is made part of 


the award. 
Dictated and corrected by me. 


J. MAITRA, JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 
Judge. Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 
The 12th June 1956. 


ANNEXURE 
BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
In the matter of on application 


under section 338A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act 


And 
(1) Subal Ch. Guha, (2) Kanai Lal 
Mukherjee سس‎ Petationers, 
vs. 


G. T. R. Co., Ltd. Opposite Party. 


The humble petition of the appli- 
cants and the opposite party named 
above 7 


MOST RESPECTFULLY 57 : 


1. That the applicants filed application for leave on 24th January 
1956 today for attending the Tribunal and thus undertake to file applica- 
tion for leave in such case beforehand in future. 


Part 11 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2643 


2. That in the above tircumstances and in view of the undertaking 
given, the Compuny agrees to pay wages for 24th January 1956. 


11100 by— : 
N. DAS GUPTA, Advocate, 
for the Opposite Party Company. 
1-6-56. 
Filed by— 
PANCHANAN BHATTACHARYA, 
G. T. R. Workers’ Union. 
1-6-6. 


KANAI LALL MUKHERJEE. 
SUBAL CHANDRA GUHA. 
1-6-56. 
J. .لا‎ MAITRA, 
Judye, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 
1). 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 2721 Dis. /D/10L-86/55.—20th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 8660Dis. /1)/ 
101-86 '45, dated the 8th August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. G. Mackenzie & Co. (1919), Ltd., 208 Lower Circular Road, 
Caleutta, and their°workmen represented by G. Mackenzie Mazdoor Union. 
120۸ Cireulur Garden Reach Road, Calcutta, regarding the matters apeci- 
fied in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Sixth 
Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ও ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. 
C. Mackenzie & Co. (1919), Ltd., 208 Lower Circular Road, Calcutta, 
and their workmen represented by 0, Mackenzie Mazdoor Union, 
129A Circular Garden Reach Road, Calcutta (case No. ۷۱۱۱۰233 of 
1955). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CAJA'UTTA. 
PRESENT: 

871٤ 7 SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sircth Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances: 


For the Company: Shr Pankaj Kumar Ghose, Advocate, instructed by 
Shri N. K. Raha, Advocate, of Messrs. Orr Dignam & Co., Solicitors. 


For the Union: Shri Patit Paban Pathak and Shri Suprabhat Mookher- 


jee, officers of Bengal Provincial Trade Union Congress. 


2644 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr 1 


The Government of West Bengal by order No. 3660Dis./D/101-86 ر5‎ 
duted Culeutta, the 8th August 1955, referred for adjudication the follow- 
Ing igsues arising out of disputes existing between Messrs. G. Mackenzie 
& Co. (1919), Ltd., and their workmen. 


(1) Whether the dismissal of the 64 workmen mentioned in the 
attached list 1s justified?’ Whether the Company should not 
reinstate them? What compensation should they be paid for the 
action taken against them by the Company? 


(2) What compensation should be paid' to them in respect of the period 
of enforced idleness from 6th October 1953, particularly 101 the 
period they were refused permission to rejoin work even after 
their cases had been disposed of by the Tribunals? 


(3) Whether the Tribunal awards concerning the 64 workmen have 
been properly implemented? What compensation should be paid 
to them by the Company for not having properly implemented 
the award? 

List of workmen, 


(1) Shn Nani Lal Routh ‘(33) Shri Biraj Mohan Dey. 
(2) Shri Gourtpati Ojha (34) Shri Sushil Naskar. 

(3) Shr Mritunjoy Ghose. (9১) Shri Amarendra Mondal. 
(4) Shri Abani Ghose. (36) Shri Kali Pada Naskar. 


Bhatta- (37) Shri Mafidur Rahaman.‏ .کا Shri Brojendra‏ رق 


charji. ۱ (38) Shri Jatin Singh. 

(6) Haroo Halder. (39) ৯1811 whulnath Mondal. 
(7) Muktaram Naskar. (40) Shri Harastulla. 

(8) Shri Phani Bari. (41) Shri Kochi Mondat. 
(9) Shri Umesh Dey. (42) Shri ,ا‎ Dey. 

(10) Shri 1১, K. Chowdhury, (43) Shri Jatin Mondal. 
(11) Shri Ramdas Singh. (44) Shr Kamal K., Haldar, 
(12) Mohd. Hussain. (4)) Shri Bhim Haldar. 
(13) Mohd. Ali. (46) Shri Prahlad Kar, 
(14) Shri Ganesh Dus. (47) Shri Kalipada Mondal. 
(15) Shri Paresh Khan. (48) Shri Jahar Ghose. 

(16) Shri Kumar Maity. (49) Shri Sudhansu Midday. 
(17) Shri Zieur Rahaman. (90) Shri শা Mondal. 
(18) Shri Manish Mullick. (51) Shri Walli Mohd. 
(19) Shri Jatin ۰ (52) Gosta Singh. 

(20) Hyder Bux, (58) Shri Abodh Das. 

(21) Amulya Sardar. (34) Shri Paran Ghose. 
(22) Shri Patit Paban Naskar. (9৩) Shri Panchanan Sircar. 
(23) Shri Dhbirendra Mondal. (96) Shri Mathur Dhara. 
(24) Shri Satish Mullick. (97) Shri Imdad Khan. 

(25) Shri Birendra Mullick. (458) Sk. Hafizuddin. 

(26) Shri Dibakar Saha. (99) Yaqub Ali. | 

(27) Shri Balai Das. (60) Abdul Rashid Khan. 
(28) Shri Gour Koley. (61) Akhbar Ali. 

(29) Shri Sushil 5 ٠+ (62) Shri Moti Lal Mondal. 
(30) Shri Thakur. 4 Shri Amulya Ch. (Ghosh. 
(31) Shri Kanai Lal Das. 64) A. By. Siddique. 


(32) Shri RB. Kandle. 


The case presented on behalf of the workers is that during the pendency 
of a reference proceeding, the Management applied under section 33 of the 
Industrial Dispntes Act for permission to dismiss 67 workers. The 
workers also made a petition under section 338A of the Industrial ]hisputes 


Part |] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2645 


লস 
Act. The applications were heard by the Second Industrial Tribunal. 
Permission was granted to dismiss three workers and with regard to the 
rest the application made by the Management was rejected. The 
application under section 388A was allowed. Appeals were preferred 
against the orders made by the Tribunal. The Appellate Tribunal 
upheld the order granting permission to .dismiss three workers and 
also the order refusing permission wifh regard to the rest. The award 
under section 894 was set aside as the application was found ہا‎ be 
unsustainable. Thereafter the Management issuede charge-sheets and gave 
intimation to the workers that aefresh enquiry would be held. Ultimately 
(4 workmen were dismissed. According’ to the workers the dismissal of 
these persons was illegal, mala fide and against all principles of natural 
justice. They are entitled to reinstatement with back wages and compen- 
gation. There’ was a further demand for compensation for non-implementa- 
tion of the awards of the Tribunals اھر‎ 


The Company in its written statement traced the history of the trouble. 
During the pendency of a reference the workers had, according to the 
Company, struck work on 6th October 1903 at 9-14 a.m. They also 
formed a cordon round the acting Working Manager Mr. 1), Cruz and kept 
him confined within a narrow space. The strikers behaved in such a lnw- 
less manner and were so disorderly that the Management had to summon 
)01109 help to save the situation. Mr. 1). Cruz was rescued by the police 
see the clutches of the strikers. As the workers did not listen to reason 
and go back to resume their duties the Company was forced to declare a 
lock-out. Application was thereafter made for permission to dismiss 67 
workers. The Tribunal granted permission to dismiss three of them and 
rejected the prayer so far as the others were concerned, An application 
made by the workem under section 338A was allowed. On appeal the uward 
under section 338A was set aside. The orders passed under section 3:3 were 
confirmed. Thereafter when no ban was in operation the Management 
issued charge-sheets and notices that enquiry would be held on appointed 
dates and hours. Some of the workers appeared at the enquiry but the 
majority kept away. On enquiry the authorities were satisfied that the 
charges were established and orders of dismissal were accordingly made 
which were fully warranted. The workers under reference are not entitled 
to any relief, 


issue No, 1.—Ext. 1 is the order passed hy the Second Industrial 
Tribunal on the ‘applications 7009 by the Company under section 33. 
Three workers, viz., Subhas Roy, Madhusudan Routh, and Bimal Ghose 
were found to have wrongfully confined Mr. 1), Cruz within the factory 
premises for a fairly Jong 1708. The Tribunal granted permission to 
dismiss these three men hut with regard to the rest the evidence was not 
considered convincing. Permission to dismiss the others was refused as 
there was reasonable doubt regarding their complicity in the incident. 
Ext. 1(b) is the Appellate order. Their Lordships held that the Manage- 
ment did not hold a proper enquiry in the presence of the persons 
concerned. The materials on record were accordingly scrutinised in order 
to reach a finding whether the charges had heen substantiated. Their 
Lordships recorded their agreement with the finding of the Tribunal of 
first instance that the allegation against the 64 workers had not been made 
out. In this view they confirmed the order passed by the State Tribunal. 
On behalf of the wopnkers it haa keen strenuously urged that in view of 
the finding of the State Tribunal which was affirmed by the Appellate 
Tribunal, the Management had no right to institute a fresh enquiry in 
respect of the same incidents and take action against persons deemed to 


2646 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6-6 [Parr I 


be guilty. The spokesman for the workers submitted an argument Yhat 
the findings have the force of res judicata and this Tribunal cannot consti- 
tute itself a Court of Appeal, as it were, to reconsider the same mutter. 
In the first place I may point out that an enquiry under section 33 is of a 
summary ‘character. The jurisdiction of the Tribunal is limited ‘to 
granting or refusing permission to the employer to take action. What is 
material is the order and rot the reasons leading up to the saine. In a 
case where permission is granted the effect thereof is not to validate the 
changes brought about by the employer. What happens is that the ban 
imposed by the 14981885079 upon the right of the employer to take disci- 
plinary action against the employees is removed on permission being granted. 
Findings reached in such a summary proceeding can have no finality and 
cannot debar a Tribunal dealing with a reference under section 10(1) from 
going into the matter unfettered by the conclusions arrived at in the 
summary proceeding. It has been held that orders under section 33 are 
not awards. The learned spokesman for the workers referred to awards 
made by Shri P. R. Mookherjee published in the Calcutta Gazette, under 
notification No. 40]4Lab., dated 24th July 1950, and hy Shr M. C. Baner- 
jee under notification No. 1716Lab., dated 6th April 1950, in support 
of his coptention that though the principle of res judicata is not directly 
applicable a principle analogous to it is applicable. He seems to have 
overlooked that the applicability of the principle was considered in relation 
to awards. The position is now entirely different since in the present 
case the order arose out of a proceeding started under section 33 of the 
Act, Since no award is passed in proceedings of this nature,| the question 
of the applicability of a principle analogous to the principle of res judicata 
cannot arise. 


The State Tribunal did not hold the charges disproved. There was in 
its view reasonable doubt. The Appellate Trihunal did not go any further. 
The sum and substance therefore 1s that the charges framed against the 
others were not proved not that they were disproved. In this view I can- 
not sustain the plea that the same question could not be reopened by the 
Management for purposes of a fresh enquiry. Both the State Tribunal 
and the Appellate Tribunal pointed out that the enquiry held by the 
Management was not in accordance with the principles of natural justice. 
Notices were not given and the persons concerned were denied the element- 
ary right to defend themselves. The Management had therefore the right 
4) remedy the defects and start afresh observing the formalities which 
would make’ it fool-proof. In my view the Managemsant did not assume 
a right not available to it in embarking upon a fresh enquiry. Admittedly 
all barriers were down by 29th March 1955. There was nothing to prevent 
the Management from awarding punishment upon the employees for any 
misconduct. By the date mentioned above no proceedings were pending 
te act as a clog on the rights of the Company. Charge-sheets in form as 
per Ext. A were issued afresh. Ext. A(1) is the form in which notices 
were issued under registered post. Ext. B series are the postal receipts. 
Jt appears that 28 persons were not found at the recorded addregs. Six 
persons had refused to accept the registered notices. Out of the reminder 
one Haroo Flalder appeared at the enquiry and pleaded guilty, 98 will 
appear from the enquiry report Ext. G (pages 3-4), Sixteen others serial 
numbers (2), (8), (11), (12), (15), (17),-418), (36), (42), (44), (58), 
(57), (58), (60), (61) and (62) in the list of workers attached to the 
Order of Reference tendered resignation voluntarily and left. The case 
of these 16 persons need not hence be considerd. 


As Haroo Halder had pleaded guilty, his dismissal is upheld as justified. 


Pant I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2647 


Fhe 23 persons bearing serial numbers (1), (3), (4), (5), (9), (19), 
(14), (16), (20), (22), (০), (26), (34), (40), (41), (45), (46), (48), 
(49), (50), (94), (56) and (59) who have not been served with notices 
could not be dismissed. On behalf of the Company the learned Advocate 
ressed the argument that notices being returned unserved the Company 
80 written to the Secretary of the Union the letter Ext. ہا‎ asking for the 
present address of those people. The Secretary of the Union vouchsafed 
no reply. The Company could not thefefore take any further steps ٥ 
give notice to them. The learned Advocate appeared to have the notion 
that the Company having done everything in its power, non-service of 
notice on those workers could beseoverlooked. 1 am afraid he has taken 
an erroneous view. The Company might have sent the notices to the 
Union Secretary for circulation to the absentees. The notices not having 
been served the position remains the same as at the time the State Tribunal 
dealt with the matter on the application under section 33. It was pointed 
out that according to the Standing Order of the Company, notice might be 
given by aflixture on the notice board of the factory. It should be borne 
in mind that the Company had declared a lock-out. The workers had no 
access to the factory during the lock-out period. The Works Manager 
addressed a letter to the Secretary of the Union on the 25th April 1955 
(Ext. 2d), that any workman in resject of whom enquiry would be hield 
would be treated as a trespasser and severe action would be taken against 
him if he entered the factory without permission. Practically the workers 
who had not capitulated and rejoined after tendering apology had no means 
of access to the factory. The notice in the notice board could not hence 
serve any useful purpose so far as they were concerned. In my view 
therefore service by affixture in the notice board was of no avail. The 23 
persons must hence be held to have been wrongfully dismissed. In regard 
to the rest, harring of course the 16 men who had voluntarily resigned, 
the action of the Corfipany cannot hut he justified as there was evidence 
recorded by the enquiring officer on the basis of which he could take the 
view that they were guilty of the charges framed. It has been held that 
if there is evidence to support the action of the Management, the Tribunal 
will not substitute its own judgment for that of the Management. 
Mr. Dungee, O.P.W. 1, had held the enquiry. Ext G is the record of the 
proceeding. He examined Mr, D. Cruz as witness. Evidence was taken 
regarding the identity of the persons who had participated in the strike 
and molestation of Mr. D. Cruz. No bias or ill-will was attributed to the 
Management. In the written statement no case was suggested that the 
Management was inspired by any vindictive motive. Since there was 
evidence and it was a possible view, the Tribunal must accept the finding 
and hold that the dismissal of those workers wus justified. 


The men wrongfully dismissed must he reinstated within 15 days from 
the date of the publication of the award in the Calcutta Gazette. There 
was an illegal strike. The work was completely suspended. The Company 
had issued one notice after another, calling upon the workers to go back 
to their duties but no one paid heed. There is nothing to show that the 
persons ‘who are about to be reinstated had evinced any inclination to 
follow a different line of action from the rest. Out of sympathy or for 
some other reasons they had also abstained from resuming duty. ‘The 
Management was forced to declure a lock-out. It would not therefore he 
just and proper to allow these workers any wages or compensation. 


issue No. 2.—The strike, dated 6th October 1953, was illegal as at that 
time a reference proceeding was pending. The lock-out declared by the 
Company was fully justified. The strikers had taken up a_ belligerent 
attitude and had actually kept the acting Working Manager confined till 


2648 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 6 [Parr 1 


he was rescued late in the afternoon by the police. No compensati§n can 
legitimately be claimed for the period of enforced idleness from 6th 
October 1953, The applications under section 33 were finally disposed of 
by the Appellate Tribunal on 29th March 1955. As permission to dismiss 
these men was refused, they are to be treated us continuing in service. The 
correspondence Iixt. 2 (series) shows that the Union tried to persuade the 
Company to readmit tha workers to their respective posts. Ext. 2 is a 
letter, dated 80th March 1956, in which the Assistant Secretary of the 
Union affirmed that on the same day the workers had presented themselves 
at the factory gate: but they were not allowed admuission. The Works 
Manager replied by letter Ext. 2(a) that some 15 men had congregated ut 
the gate but did not report to the office. It was not possible to say 
whether they were workers or not. The Union had in the letter Ext. 2 
enquired when the workers should be directed to report for duty. To this 
no reply was given. The workers who were wrongfully dismissed and kept 
out when they were ready to come back are entitled to recover their wages. 
T award them wages and dearness allowance, if any, with effect from 151 
April 1955 up to the date of reinstatement. Payment must be made within 
15 days from the date of publication of the award in the Calcutta Gazette. 


Issue No. 3.—Shri Subhas Rov, Madhusudan Routh and Bimal Ghose 
were permitted by the State Tribunal to be dismissed. The order was 
confirmed on appeal. Company’s prayer to dismiss 64 others were rejected 
both by the State Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal. Neither the State 
Tribunal nor the Appellate Tribunal made any order upon the Company 
fo do any positive act. The application under section 334 was allowed 
by the State Tribunal but the order was set aside on appeal [vide Ext. 1(d)] 
The application was held to be misconceived. As the order of 1179 
Appellate Tribunal in the matter of the application under section 33 was 
not directory and no duty was imposed upon the Company, there can | 
no question of implementation or non-implementation. No question of 
compensation can therefore arise. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
S. SENGUPTA, শি. SENGUPTA, 
Judge. Judge, Sixth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 7th June 1956. 
Inst of the workers to be reinstated. 


(1) Shri Nani Lal Routh. (12) Shri Dibakar Saha, 
(2) Shr Mritunjoy Ghose. (19) Shri Sushil Naskar. 
(3) Shri Abani Ghose (14) Shri Harastulla. 
(4) Shri Brojendra K. Bhatta- (15) Shri Kochi Mondal. 
0 (10) Shri Bhim Haldar. 
(5) Shri Umesh Dey. (17) Shri Prahlad Kar. 
(6) Shri Ganesh Das. (18) Shri Jahar (those. 
(7) Mohd. Ah. (19) Shri Sudhansu Midday. 
(8) Kumar Maity. (20) Shri Kalipada Mondal, 
(9) Hyder Bux. to Shri Paran Ghose. 
(10) Patit Paban Naskar. 22) Shri Mathus Dhara. 
(11) Shri Birendra Mullick. (23) Yaqub Ali, 
~ S. SENGUPTA, 
The 7th June 1956. Judge, Sizth Industrial Tribunal. 
ee অর 


By order of the Governor, 
|). ও. P. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2649 


ORDER 


No. 0 ach hig rata June 1956.—Whereas under the 
(fovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6141Dis./1)/ 
10L-119/55, dated the 29th December 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Bhartia Hlectric Steel Co., Lid., 78 Svwinhoe Street, Ballygunge, 
Caleutta-19, and their workers represented by Bhartia Iron & Steel Workers’ 
Union, 7/2A, Jamir Lane, Calcutta-19, regarding the mattera specified in 
a oe thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial 
Tribunal ; ٠ 


And whereas the said Second Industrial buna has submitted to the 
State Governments its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Bhartia 
Electric Steel Co., Ltd., 8 Swinhee Street, Ballygunge, Calcutta-19, 
and their workers represented by Bhartia Iron and Steel Workers’ 
Union, 7/2A Jamir Lane, Calcutta-19, 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT; 
Suri G. 1১. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
Appearances : 


For the Employees: Shri B. Majumder, President, and Shri J. Roy, Secre- 
tary of Bhartia Tron & Steel Workers’ Union. 


For the Company: Shri §. K. Asthana, Labour Adviser, Engineering 
Association of India. 


The above industrial diapute regarding the matter specified below in the 
schedule 10 the order of reference was referred to this Tribunal for its 
adjudication under Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order 
No. 6141Dis./D/10L-119/55, dated 29th December 1955. 


Schedule 
Bonus for 1954. 


AWARD 


Roth parties filed their written statements in the case. The Union 
which filed written statement on behalf of the workers, claimed 3 months’ 
wages as bonus for the year 1954, over and above the customary bonus paid 
to workmen. 


In a counter-statement, Messrs. Bhartia Electric Steel Co., Ltd. (herejn- 
after referred to as the Company) resisted the Union’s demand, and contend- 
ed inter alia that there was no surplus available after deducting all the prior 
charges from the trading results of the year, for which bonus was being 
claimed. The Company further stated that in spite of no surplus being 
available, it is a gesture of goodwill and with a view to obtain better labour- 
management relations, paid to the workmen a bonus equivalent to about 
15 days’ basic wages in 1954, and that it was unable to pay any further 
bonus in reapect of the year endipg 1954. 


2650 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1966 [Parr 1 


The case was fixed for hearing this day. But the parties instead of pro- 
ceeding with the case, intimated that the dispute was amicably settled. A 
petition of compromise embodying the terms of settlement appearing in 
Appendices was thereafter filed. The terms of settlement relating to bonus 
for the year 1954, which is.the subject-matter of the present reference 
appear to be fair and reasdnable, and as such they are accepted. Accord- 
ingly, an award is passed in terms thereof. The petition of compromise, s0 
far as it relates to the question of bonus for the year 1954, do form part 
of this award. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge. 0. P. MUKHERJEE, 
8-6-56. Judge, Seoond Industrial Tribunal. 


The 8th June 1956. 


APPENDIX 


BEFORE SHRI G. ۰ MUKHERJEE, JUDGE, SECOND INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA. 


In the matter of an industrial dispute 
Between 
The Bhartia Electric Steel Co., 1,0. 
8 Swinhoe Street, Ballygunge 


And 


Their workmen represented hy the 
Bhartia Iron & Stee] Workers’ 
Union, Jamir Lane, Ballygunge 


And 
In the matter of Government order 
of reference No. 6141Dis./D/101- 
119/65, dated 29th December 1955. 
THE PETITION RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH : 


1, That the abovementioned parties have arrived at an amicable settle- 
ment with regard to 1954 bonus dispute and other pending matters and the 
terms of settlement are enclosed herewith. 


2. That in view of the settlement, the parties do not wish to proceed 
with the pending reference. 


3. That the learned Tribunal be pleased to record the terms of settle- 
ment and pass a ‘‘No Dispute” award. 


And for this act of kindness, the parties shall ever pray. 


B. MAZUMDER, 
President of the Union. 


J. ROY, S. K. ASTHANA, 
Offg. Secretary of the Union, Labour Adviser, Engineering 
— Association of India. 
Dated the 8th June, 1956. (For and on behalf of the 
Company.) 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 8th June 1956, 


Paut 1 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2651 


APPENDIX 
Terms of Settlement 
Parties to the dispute— 


(1) The Bhartia Electric Steel Co., Ltd., রঃ Swinhoe Street, Calcutta- 
19 (hereinafter called the Company). 


(2) Bhartia Iron & Steel Workers’ Union representing the workmen 


of the Company, Jamir Lane, Ballygunge, Calcutta (hereinafter 
called the Union), " 


Represented by— 
For the Company: 


(1) Shri P. R. Bagri, Director of the Company. 


(2) Shri ডি. K. Asthana, Labour Adviser, Engineering Association 
of India. 


For the Unwin: 


(1) Shri B. N. Majumdar, President to the Union. 
(2) Shn J. Roy, Offy. Secretary to the Union. 


Short recital of the dispute 


The decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in 1953 bonus dispute 
was pronounced on the 5th April 1956. The issue of bonus for 1954 has 
been pending for adjudication before the Second Industrial Tribunal (vide 
(tovernment of West Bengal’s order of reference No. 6141Dis./D/10L-119/ 
96, dated 29th December 1955). Other issues pending settlement are bonus 
for the year 1955, disposal of surplus rolling mill men at the Ballygunge 
Works in view of the setting up of a new rolling mill at Khardah, reclasai- 
fication of the unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workmen, revision of 
standing orders and revision of piece-rates, etc. 


Terms of Settiement 


Both parties being desirous of settlement of all the abovementioned dis- 
putes have arrived, at a settlement and the terms of settlement between the 
parties are stated hereunder. 


(1) Bonus.—(i) The Company shall pay and the workmen shall accept in 
full and final settlement of all their claims in respect -of bonus for the 
financial year 1954 a payment equivalent to 39 days’ basic wages for the 
daily-rated workmen and 45 days’ basic wages for the monthly-rated workmen 
based on an actual attendance period of 270 days in the calendar year exclu- 
sive of Sundays, Festival holidays and other leave. For attendance for less 
than 270 days, proportionate reduction will be made. The advance payment 
or payments already made shall be adjusted against the above payment. 


-7 The کت‎ shall pay and the workmen shall accept in full and 
final settlement of all their claims in respect of bonus for the financial year 
1956 a payment equivalent to 42 days’ basic wages for the daily-rated work- 
men and 45 days’ basic wages for the monthly-rated workmen based on an 
actual attendance period of 270 days in the calendar year exclusive of 
Sundays, Festival holidays and other leave. For attendance for less than 
270 days, proportionate reduction will be made. The advance payment or 
payments already made shall be adjusted against the above payment. 


2652 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1956 (Pant 1 


at ہے‎ 


(iii) All monies in respect of bonus for both the years, 1.e., 1954 and 
1955 shall become payable within 4 weeks from the date of the recording of 
these terms with the Second Industrial Tribunal and on the Tribunal approv- 
ing accordingly in respect of the year 1954. 


(iv) Bonus in respect of both the years shall be payable to the permanent 
workmen only, that is to say, workers employed at the Khardah Works for 
plant construction who are being paid weekly now will not be entitled to any 
bonus payment. 


(2) Surplus rolling mill men at Ballygunge Works.—It is understood 
that the rolling mill operations at Ballygunge Works have to be closed down 
on account of the setting up of a new rolling mill plant at Khardah Works 
with up-to-date plant and muchinery. After the men required permanently 
for rolling mills work have been transferred to the Khardah Works, a large 
number of men will be rendered surplus to requirement. In respect of these 
surplus men, it 1s agreed; 


(i) That none of these persons shall be retrenched on account of being 
surplus due to the transfer of rolling mills operation from Bally- 
gunge to Khardah.. / 


(11) That the men who are not transferred to Khardah will be absorbed 
in other jobs in other departments in Ballygunge Factory, 

(111) That the workmen concerned will accept such other jobs as may 
be offered to them by the Company. 

(iv) শা = existing wages rates of the surplus men will'remain un- 
altered. 

(v) That where other jobs are offered to the surplus men, reasonable 
opportunity will be given to them to learn the new jobs, so us 
to enable them to acquire the requisite skill for that job. 

(vi) That should the workmen concerned fail to acquire the requisite 
skill for the other johs offered within a reasonable period, such 
workmen may be ultimately declared surplus and retrenched. 


(vi) That the surplus men will be transferred to Khardah in future if 
the Company should require their services at the Khardah Works 
in future. 


(৮111) That such of the workmen who do not prefer to be absorbed in 
other departments of the Company in other jobs will be retrenched 
and paid retrenchment compensation in terms, of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. The option to be retrenched must, however, be 
exercised at the latest by 25th June 1956 by written intimation 
to the Personnel Officer in this behalf. In the event of retrench- 
ment, compensation will be paid for the service period on and 
from Ist January 1949. 


(ix) That the terms agreed upon in clauses (i) to (viii) above shall come 
into force immediately on the signing of this Agreement. 


(3) Reclassification of wiskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workmen.—(i) 
It 1s agreed that there is need for the introduction of trade tests and 
standardization of occupational nomenclature on the basis of which the work- 
men sag ag properly classified; but sirice this matter is of a general nature, 
it may be taken up on an industry-basis. The Union, therefore, agrees to 
withdraw this issue which is at present pending before the Jabour 
Commissioner. 


(11) The Company agrees to look into the alleged specific cases of aono- 
malies in the existing wage rates in the light of the 1948 Engineering 
Tribunal Award and rectify them, if considered réasonable. 


Pea 11 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2653 


(4) Individual disputes.—It is agreed that the services of the following 
workmen may he dispensed with on payment of 15 days’ average wages for 
each year of completed service since lst January 1949 and 1 month notice 
or pay in lieu thereof :— 


Serial Ticket Name. , Department. 
No. No. এ 
1 61931 Khedan Bhar Machine Shop. 
2 83631 Ramani Mohan Chatterjee General. 
3 81002 Surendra Nath Naskar Electric. 
4 86001 Sk. Himat Ali Crane Driver. 
5 86007 Ganga Pd. Tiwari Do. 
6 42332 Jotin Sardar Fittling Shop. 
7 42403 Tika Singh Do. 
8 39117 Sarat Ch. Adhikary Pattern Shop. 
0 87052 Jotin Das Foundry. 

10 25161 Kristo Ch. Ghosh Do. 

11 33256 Dukhi Ram Kurmi Do. 

12 33381 Bhrigunath Singh Do. 

13 15705 Ram Subhak Shukla Ingot. 

14 13002 Lotan Nadaf Furnace, 

15 13008 Ramdhari Ram Kanu Do. 

16 75418 Bhuja Ahir No. 

17 75165 Muneswar Pashi Rolling Mills. 

18 76226 Rekha Singh Do. 

19 75397 Manaraj Kewat Do. 

20 75298 Balbhadra Jha Do. 

21 75238 Mata Badal Koiri Do. 

22 76272 Mahadeb Pasi Do. 

23 75153 Ram Avatar Kewat Do. 

24 75253 Rakhal Mondal Do. 

25 25819 Ram Juraon Lonia Do. 

26 75183 Jhangai Kori Do. 

27 75409 Jagai Kowat Do. 

28 75188 Mangrar Lonia Do. 

29 75416 Budhram Chamar Do. 

30 75222 Ghurahu Kalwar Do. 

3] 72059 Harinandan Jaiswara Do. 

32 72076 Jagat Kori Do. 

33 75339 Saral Bhar Do. 

34 70228 Besanu Kewat Do. 


(5) Standing Orders.—It is agreed that the Standing Orders as framed 
by the Engineering Association of India and certified by the Certifying 
Officer and Labour Commissioner, West Bengal, on the 1061) February 1956 
are and will be deemed to be in operation with effect from the 10th March 
1956, and the Union, if they like, may seek modification of the terms thereof 


2664 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1966 ھ۲۸]‎ I 


after 6 months from the date of signing of this Agreement. Similarly, 
after expiry of 6 months from the date of this Agreement, the Company can 


also retire workmen under the terms of the said standing orders without 
compensation. 


(6) Prece-rates.—(i) It is agreed— 


(a) that the existing basic wages for the piece-rate workers will be 


retained in accordance with the existing system and will not be 
altered ; 


(b) that the Company would look into the specific instances in which 
reduction of rates is alleged and restore the old rates, if consi- 
dered reasonable. 


(7) Incentive benus for rolling malls att Khardah.—It is agreed that after 
the Khardah plant is fully installed and comes into full production, a suit- 
able incentive scheme or schemes will be worked out so as to cover all pro- 
duction personnel including mazdoors. 


(8) Incentive bonus for the founday workmen.—(1) Kuldip Singh, (2) 
Dipan and (3) Arjun. 


It 1s agreed that Kuldip Singh will be paid a lump sum amount of Rs. 10 


towards his incentive bonus for February 1956. There is nq outstanding 
dispute with regard to the remaining two workers. ۱ 


(9) Festrval holidays.—It is agreed that on and from 2970 January 1956, 
wages for festival holidays in case of daily-rated workmen shall be payable 
even in cases where a festival holiday occurs during the period of leave or 
immediately preceding or succeeding the period of leave if such leave has 
been previously authorised. In such cases, the period of leave will be com- 
puted by excluding such festival holiday or holidays. 


(10) Bechu Naskar, mistry, Maintenance Department.—It 1s agreed that 
the Company will favourably consider his request for light work and give 


him a last chance failing which he will be retrenched and paid the usual 
compensation, 


(11) General.—It is agreed that there are no other disputes, claims or 
demands pending either at the conciliation stage or elsewhere and in case 
there happens to be any dispute, claims or demands either at the concilia- 
tion stage or elsewhere, the same are to be treated as withdrawn. 


12. It is agreed that a signed copy of this Agreement be filed with the 
Labour Commissioner, West Bengal, for record and necessary action. 

On behalf of the Vnion— 

(1) ھ‎ N, MAJUMDAR. 

(2) J. ROY. 

On behalf the Company— 

۲. R. BAGRI. 

S. K. ASTHANA., 

7-6-1956, G. P. MUKHERJEE, 

The 8th June 1956. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. ৪. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Part 1 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2655 


ORDER. 


No. phone gt سی‎ 90.--2181 June 1956.—Whereas under the 
(joverument of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6173Dis./D/ 
10L-125/55, dated the 380th December 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. National Sheet & Metal Works, Ltd, 36۸ Sahitya Parisad Street, 
Calcutta, and their workmen represented by Nutional Sheet & Metal 
Mazdur Union, 4 Jagadish Nath Roy Lane, Calcutta-6, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to 
the Second Industrial Tribunal;° 


And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State (Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore in pursuance of the provisions of section 117 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. National 
Sheet & Metal Works, Ltd., 36A Sahitya Parisad Street, Calcutta, and 
their workmen represented by National Sheet & Metal Mazdur Union, 
4 Jagadish Nath Roy Lane, Calcutta-8. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT : 
Sout G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 
Appearances: 


For the employees: Shri Rajani Mukherjee, Vice-President, Hind 
Mazdoor Sabha. 


For the Company: Shri N. M. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


The Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, by its order 
No. 6173Dis./D/10L-125/55, dated 20th December 1955, has referred the 
aforesaid dispute regarding the matter mentioned in the schedule below 
to this Tribunal for its adjudication. 


The issues as contained in the schedule to the order of reference stand 
as follows :— 


Whether the existing rates of wages are in accordance with the Major 
Engineering Tribunal Awards ? 


Tf not, in what way they should be improved? 


AWARD 


The case for the Union in short is that the National Sheet & Metal 
Works, Ltd., is at present a very prosperous concern. It has been making 
steady and continuous progress in all directions since the Second World 
War broke out, and has made great financial strides. But unfortunately, 
thia Company pays much lower wage and dearness allowance to its workers. 
Naturally, the workers became extremely dissatisfied. In October 1993, 
the workers through their Union demanded revision of their wages and 
dearness allowance with effect from Ist October 1953 in terms of the level 
fixed by the Engineering Industrial Tribunals. The matter was referred 
to the Conciliation Officer, Yabour Directorate. Though in course of 


2656 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr I 


® 


conciliation proceedings, the Company ut the suggestion of the Concilia- 
tion Officer at first ugreed to introduce minimum wage scale inclusive otf 
dearness allowance at Rs. 61, which was the miniinum acale for unskilled 
workers awarded by the Major Kugimeering Tribunal, it subsequently 
declined to do this. Further conciliation proceedings were then held, 
but due to the attitude of the Company no amicable settlement could be 
arrived at. At last, it was referred to the Tribunal for adjudication. As 
the wages given by the Company are extremely inadequate and cannot 
provide most ot the workers with the barest necessities of life, the Union 
prayed that the wages and dearness allowance of the workers must be 
revised, at least in terms of the Major Engineering ‘Tribunal Award with 
regard to unskilled and semi-skilled workers, and for the skilled, highly 
skilled and special grade workers, the basic wages should he Ks. 60—-100, 
Rs. 100—100 and Rs. 1580-200, respectively. 


Messrs. National Sheet & Metal Works, Ltd. (hereinafter called the 
Company) contends that it never agreed to introduce minimum wage scale 
inclusive of dearness allowance at Rs. 61. It did not also agree to any 
terms before the Conciliation Officer, but due to insistence of the Union, 
the said Conciliation Officer made some f£ecommendations, which could not 
be accepted by the Company. The Company expressed its inability to pay 
according to the recommendations accepted by the Union. The Company 
is not in a position to give any Increase in wages, or to fix ahy pay seule 
in view of its unstable financial condition. So, it should nof be saddled 
with the rates of wages as per Major Engineering Tribunal Awards, 
considering its status and capacity to pay. It stated further’ that = the 
minimum basic wages of the unskilled workers of this Company has been 
fixed by the Tribunal at Rs. 30, and the Company has been tollowing the 
game. Furthermore, this Company has given increases -in wages = from 
time to time, and the basic wages of unskilled workers and_ semi-skilled 
workers are in conformity with the Major Engineering Tribunal Awarda, 
which fixed such minimum basic wages at Rs. 30 and Rs. 30, respectively, 
for unskilled and semi-skilled workers. As regards skilled workers, 
highly skilled workers and special grade workers, the Major Engineernng 
Tribunal Award did not fix basic wages for them. It further contended 
that dearness allowance should be treated as outside the scope of adjudi- 
cation, because this would be evident from the pleadings of the Union and 
also from the issue as contained in the schedule to the order of reference. 
Finally, the Company said that in view of its financial position which was 
bad and unsatisfactory and owing to depression in business, it was not in 
a position to bear any further increase in wages, or to make payment of 
dearness allowance at the rate fired by the Major Engineering Tribunal 
Award of 1980, 


DECISION 


At the very outset, I would like to dispose of a point that has heen 
raised before the Tribunal on behalf of the Company. Tearned advocate 
appearing on behalf of the Company has argued that the question ot 
dearness allowance should be treated as outside the scope of adjudication 
in the present dispute. He has invited my attention in this respect to thie 
pleadings of the Union and also to the issue as-contained in the schedule 
to the order of the present reference. He has further drawn my attention 
to Ext. 2—charter of demands placed before the Labour Officer by the 
Union and also to Ext. 3—a letter addressed hy the Director of the 
Company to the Assistant Labour Commissioner. Relying on these docu- 
ments, he has voiced an argument that dearness allowance was a separate 
item, which was and has heen kept distinct all along from the wages, 


Pane 1| THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2657 


Sather the basic wages, and that us the present reference was in respect of 
wages alone, the question whether or not there should be any increase in 
the existing dearness allowance of the workers, was beyond the scope ot 
the present reference. He hus further contended that the wording of the 
issue as ا‎ a the schedule, clearly excluded the adjudication of the 
question of dearness allowance. 1! have perused the relevant documents, 
and huve given my careful and anxious cpnsideration to the arguments 
put forward by the learned advocate’ of the Company. But I must say 
that 1 am unable to accept the interpretution he wanted to make. The 
issue as contained in the schedule to the order of,reference is as follows :— 


‘Whether the existing rates of wages are in accordance with 1116 
Major Engineering Tribunal Awards P’’ 


‘“Wages’’ has been defined in section 2(rr) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. The definition of wages is that it means all remunerations 
capable of being expressed in terms of money......... and includes such 
allowance (including dearness allowance) as the workman is for the time 
being entitled to. So, the plain language of the definition of wages 
indicates that it includes dearness allowance. It being so, I have no doubt 
or hesitation in saying that in the issue as mentioned in the schedule to 
the order of reference, the word ‘*wuges’’ includes also dearness allowance. 
Accordingly, this Tribunal has the right and jurisdiction to enter into the 
question of dearness allowance also in determining the question whether 
the existing rates of wages are in accordance with the Major Engineering 
Tribunal Awards. 


Now let me enter into the merits of the case. Admittedly, the present 
sompany is an Engineering concern. It is a fact no doubt that this 
Company was not a party to the Major Engineering Tribunal. But tos 
fact by itself does, not matter much. The awards of the Major Engineering 
Tribunal can certainly be used as guide for determining what the wages 
should be for the workers of an Engineering concern. In fact, those 
awards help us as guide in the matters dealt with thereunder. For thut 
purpose, the rate decidendi of those awards is of great importance. It 
is up to this Tribunal to decide, whether or not such wages as fixed by 
the Major Engineering Tribunal Awards including dearness allowance 
should be given to the workers of the present Company. This Cmpany 
gives dearness allowance at the flat rate of Rs. 30 to all its workefs. 
This is not in conformity with the Major Engineering Tribunal Awards. 
Regarding wages, J, however, find that this Company gives munitnum 
basic wages as prescribed by the Major Engineering Tribunal for unskilled 
und skilled workers. The Major Engineering Tribunal fixed the minimum 
basic wage for the unskilled workers at Rs. 30 per month or Re. 1-2-0 
per day, and that of the semi-skilled workers at Ks.. 30 per month or 
Re. 1-0-0 per day. This Company has been giving such minimum basic 
wages to its unskilled and semi-skilled workers. ‘The charts which have 
been filed by both parties show that the minimum basic wages as stated 
above, do not fall দন of the minimum wages as prescribed by the Major 
Engineering Tribunal in case of unskied and semi-skilled workers ot the 
present Company. That being so, I do not think any interference is culied 
for so far as the question of basic wages of the unskilled and semi-skilled 
workers is concerned. Regarding skilled workers, highly skilled workers 
and special grade workers, the Major Engineering Tribunal did not fix any 
minimum basie wage, but it 1016 the matter with the Management of the 
different concerns with its recommendation that there should be some 
increments in their pay. In the present dispute, the Union 910 not 
produce any ৪001) material which justified ony increment in the pay olf 
these workers. So, any increment in the basic wages of skilled workers, 


2658 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr I 


highly skilled workers and special grade workers of the present Company, 
cannot be entertained or gone into. ‘The bone of contention of the Union 
is that the cost of living has gone up. Even if it is accepted to be so, it 
does not support the Union’s contention for justifying any increment in 
the wages of all the workers—unskilled, semi-skilled, skilled, highly skilled 
and special grade workers—as demanded in this case. It may be state’ 
further that a rise of the cost of living index prima facie supports a case 
for revision of the dearness allowauce, and not of basic wages. The 
introduction of the Compulsory Provident Fund Scheme and the State 
Insurance Fund for the workers has given much-needed relief to the 
workers, and the contributions coming therefrom are to be treated as addi- 
tions to their wages. Hence, judging by all the available standards, the 
basic wages which are given at present to the workmen of this Company, 
cannot be said to be below the minimum or otherwise inadequate. So, 
the Tribunal holds that the demand for ad hoc increments over the existing 
rates of basic wages is neither justified nor expedient and proper, specially 
in view of the financial position of the Company as appearing from Ext. 
3(b). Furthermore, it appears that there are no grades with fixed scales 
of increment for the workers in this Company. Ad 1000 increments can 
only be granted if the two conditions are fulfilled, namely (£) there are 
certain grades and (22) time scales of pay. In the present case, both these 
conditions are absent. So, no increment in the basic wages would be 
proper in the circumstances of the case. So, to be precise, the Tribunal 
holds that the existing rates of basic wages given to the workers of this 
Company are in রি with the Major Engineering Tribynal Awards, 
and that it being so, they need no improvement or revision. Regarding 
dearness allowance, I have already observed that this Company gives 
dearness allowance at the flat rate of Rs. 30 to all its workers, which is not 
in conformity with the Major Engineering Tribunal Awards.‘ The First 
Major Engineering Tribunal by its award, dated 4th -June 1948, fixed 
dearness allowance for all categories of workmen under the Engineering 
firms at the following scale :— 


Pay Range Dearness allowance. 
Rs. 
Up to Rs. 50 ie ee 
From Rs. 51 to Rs. 100 رب‎ 0 
From Rs. 101 to Rs. 150 we 40 
From 109. 151 to Rs. 200 .. 45 
From Rs. 201 and above » b0 


The subsequent Major Engineering Tribunal by its award as published 
in the Calcutta Gazette on 2186 September 1950 modified the award of 
1948, and recommended dearness allowance for all categories of workmen 
fn the Engineering firms as belows— 


Basic Pay Range. Dearness 6 
Rs. 

Up to Rs. 50 ই) 

From Rs. 51 to Rs. 100 7و ریت‎ 

From Rs. 101 to Rs. 150 . 48 

From 178. 151 to Rs. 200 02090 


From Rs. 201 upwards ... 60 


Pant 1 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 2659 


»From what has been stated above, it is crystal clear that the dearness 
allowance, which this Company has been paying to its workers, is lesser 
than the deurness allowance admissible according to the awards of the 
Engineering Tribunal as atoresaid. The Company contends that it has no 
capacity to bear additional burden. It is urged on behalf of the Company 
that it is rather a small concern, and its financial position is bad and un- 
satistactory, and that in the circumstances, the dearness allowance as fixed 
in the awarda of the Major Kngineering Tribunal should not be applied to 
it. The resources of this Company are meagre. From Ext. 3(b)—a chart 
showing the statement of the Company’s financial position—it will be 
evident that the net profit after sales and payment of wages, has been 
gradually going down. In 1901-02 it was Rs. 25,204, but in 1954-06 it 
has come down to Rs. 11,088. Less than 200 workers are employed in tbis 
Company. Taking this financial stability and ability of this Company 
into consideration, it will not be just and proper if this Company be asked 
to implement fully the Major Engineering ‘Tribunal Awards regarding 
dearness allowance as awarded by the aforesaid Tribunal. Accordingly, 
this Tribunal directs dearness allowance at the following scale :— 


Basic Pay Range. Dearness allowance. 
Rs. 

Up to Rs. 60 we Bl 

From Rs. 51 to Rs. 100 ... 0ا‎ 

From ks. 101 to Rs. 0 ... 1 

From Rs. 151 to Rs. 200 ... 080 

From Rs. 201 upwards ww. §=90 


Dearness allowance at the above rates 18 accordingly awarded to 911 
the workers of this concern. The dearness allowance as fixed above, will 
be payable within one month of the award coming into operation. I give 
no retrospective effect in this respect. 


In awarding the above dearness allowance, particularly at rates varying 
trom Rs. 31 to Re. 45, two important points which have emerged from the 
materials on record have also been taken into consideration. One is that 
the Union agreed to such rates of dearness allowance before the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner, while conciliation proceedings were going on before 
him. The other is that the range of basic wages of almost all the workers 
of this concern with the exception of one or two falls within the limit of 
Rs. 200. I am mindful of the fact that by this award, 1» few workers, 
whose basic wages will be ultimately above Rs. 200 per month, will be 
getting dearness allowance at the rate of Rs. 50, a rate which will be 
higher than what was agreed to by the Union before the Assistant Labour 
Commissioner in the conciliation proceedings. But I do not think thal 
the Union can be pinned down to what was agreed by it during the 
conciliation proceedings. It is true no doubt that the Union agreed صا‎ 
accept what was suggested by the Conciliation Officer regarding dearness 
allowance. But at the same time, the stubborn fact remains that the 
Company did not accept that suggestion. So, it cannot be said that there 
was any concluded agreement between the parties in this respect. The 
matter did not take any definite shape, rather it remained in a duid ataye. 
In the circumstances, the Union cannot be forced 10 limit its demand for 
dearness allowance to what was suggested by the Conciliation Officer and 
agreed by it. 


2660 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Part 1 


An argument was made before me by the learned spokesman of the 
Union that sume portion of the dearness allowance should be incorporated 
into the basic wages. In my view, this claim is untenable. ] am_ fully 
alive to the fact that the trend of events leads one tq think that the prices 
of commodities are never going to stabilise at the pre-war level. So, 
dearness allowance has got practically to stay. Under such circumstances, 
the claim tor having at least a portion of it to be converted into basic 
wage, may not be unreasonable. But this move does not fetch more money 
into the pockets of the workers, It may affect one’s contribution ‘to the 
Provident Fund. It may affect his retiral benefit as gratuity. It may 
also have a bearing on the retrenchment relief. So, except for gratuity 
or bonus; incorporation of dearness allowance into the basic wage cannot 
be of much benefit to the workers. But whatever that might be, such 
incorporation of dearness allowance into the basic wage cannot be done wm 
a stray and individual case before a Tribunal. It is desirable that it should 
be done on a higher level, مھ‎ that the industries in general might be bound 
by such a provision. I do not think ft advisable to allow any incorpora- 
tion of dearness ullowance into the basi¢ wage in the present case, as it 
stands by itself. It has been represented to me that there is already a 
move in this direction. Let us only wait. 


Now ] give a summary below of my award. The existing rates of basic 
wages in this Company are in accordance with the Major Engineering 
1177৭] Awards, and us such the same need no revision or improvement. 
But the existing dearness allowance, which is part of the wages, ia not in 
accordance with the Major Enginecring Tribunal Awards, and ay such 11 
should be revised and improved for all categories of workmen as below :— 

\ 


Basic Pay Range. Dearness allowance. 
Ra, 

Up to Rs. 50 we آ3‎ 

From 188. 5) to Rs. 100 ... 06 

From Rs. 101 to Rs. 150 we Al 

From Rs. 151 to Rs. 200 we 408 

From Rs. 201 upwards . 00 


The workers shall get dearness allowance as above within one month of 
the award coming into operation. No retrospective effect is given for the 
sane. 


This 1৭ my award. 


Dictaied and corrected by me. 
(3, P. MUKHERJER, G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


The 12th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Part 1 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1966 2661 


_ ORDER 

No. 2832Dis. /D/11L-51/55.—28th June 1956.—Waereas under tlie 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2067Dis./D/ 
111L-51/55, dated the llth May 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. East India Rubber Works,+Ltd., 3 Stark Road, Lillooah, Howrah, 
and their workers represented by-East India Rubber Factory Mazdoor 
Union, 62/1:Madhab Babu Lane, Ghusury, Howrah, was referred for 
adjudication ty the Seventh Industrial Tribfnal ; 

And whereas the said Seventh Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on, the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial کت‎ Act, 1947, (XIV ام‎ 1947), the Governor is pleased. 
hereby to publish_the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of 88 industrial dispute between Messrs, East 11018 Rubber 
Works, Ltd.,.3 Stark Road, Lillooah, Howrah, and their workers 
represented by East India Rubber Factory Mazdoor Union, 6211 
Madhab Bahu Lane, Chusury, Howrah, referred under Government 
order No. 2067Dis./D/11L-51/55, dated the 11th May 1955. 


BEFORE THE SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAT, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 


Dr. B. K. BHATTACHARYA, M.A., LL.B., Pu.D. (Lonpoy), BarnistEr- 
at-Law, District Judge, Judye, Seventh lndustrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : ۰ 
For the Unton: Sltri M. M. Saha, Advocate, assisted by Shri H. L. Roy, 
Pleader. 
For the Company: Shri S. K. Bose, Counsel, with Shri K. P. Mukherjee, 
Solicitor. 


AWARD 


Parties have filed a joint petition of compromise settling some of the 
points of dispute and not pressing other points, as mentioned in the 
petition itself. 

The terms prima facie seem to be reasonable and fair, Since 16 was 
the Union which raived issue No. 12 relating to Gouranga Das, Ashit 
Baran Homray, Naha Kishore Samal and Satish Mondal and since in terms 
of paragraphs 16 und 19 of the petition of compromise thisrissue also does 
not seem to be pressed, the Tribunal does not wish that theematter may 
be pursued further at this stage. There is no reason why the petition of 
compromise should not be accepttd. The dispute be settled accordingly 
in terms of the petition of compromise which do form a part of the Award. 


This is the ای‎ Award of the Tribunal. 
Typed to my dictation. 


B. K. BHATTACHARYA, B. K. BHATTACHARYA, 
Judge. District Judge, Judge, Industrial Tribunal. 


The 16th June 1996. 


ہر 


2662 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 [Parr I 
পপ 


BEFORE DR. 13, کل‎ BHATTACHARYA, THE SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


In the matter of an industrial dispute 
Between 


Measrs. East India Rubber Works, Ltd., 3 Stafk ‘Road, Lillooah, 
Howrah (to be hereinafter referred to as Company). 


And 


Their workmen represented by East India Rubber Factory Mazdoor 
Union, 62/1 Madhab Babu Lane, Ghusury, Howrah (to be hereinafter 
reterred to as the binion). 

And 


_ In the matter of the Government Order No, 2067d)is./D/11L-61/60, 
dated the llth May 195d, 


The humble joint petition of the parties abovenamed most respectfully— 
Sheweth : 


‘hat in the above dispute the parties have settled mutually all their 
outstanding disputes and/or disagreements and/or mutual olaims 01) to 
date including mutual claims of the parties herein arising out of the 
Award by the learaed Seventh Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, publish- 
ed on 22nd March 1956 and the appeal against the said Awurd pending 
before the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribunal on the following terms 
and/or conditions. 


(1) Ninty-two workmen whose names are included in Annexure A 
herein shall be piven re-employment on and from 18th June 1956. There 
shall be continuity of service as regards the said 92 workmen are 
concerned. 


(2) The said 92 workmen must join their respective duties within 12 
days trom 18th June 1956. In the event of any of the said 92 workmen 
failing to join duty by 380th June 1956, any such workmen shall not be 
entitled to any employment or re-employment; moreover in such event uny 
such workman shall not be entitled to any: wages or benefits or compen- 
sation whatsoever in terms of this settlement without prejudice to their 
claim of wages, etc., for service prior to 2lst January 1955. 


(9) For the period during which the said workmen were not in the 
service of the Company the said workmen shall not be entitlél to any 
compensation or arrears of wages or any other benefit and/or remuneration 
excepting basic wages and dearness allowance equivalent to wages payable 
for four months of service. The respective workmen on joining duty shall 
personally apply for the aforesaid payments and payment shall only be made 
to the respective workmen individually. 


(4) The said’ workmen shall be entitled to draw two months’ basic 
wages with dearness allowartice within a week from their respective dates 
of joining and the balance equivalent to two months, wages with dearness 
allowanee shall be payable by the Compan after two nfdnths from the ‘ate 
of their receipt of the aforesaid respective first payment. 


(5) Amongst four contractor’s workmen whose names are included in 
Annexure B first two workmen shall be entitled to basic wages with 
dearness allowance equivalent to wages payable for four months of service 
and the rest two workmen shall be entitled to basic wages with dearness 
allowance equivalent to wages payable for two months of service. 


((; The parties herein agree to maintain the existing svales and rates 
of minimum wages and/or other wages. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1956 2663 


মাতাল 


(7) The 90200808078 workmen of the Hose Pipe Department shall be 
employed directly by the Company on piece rate hasis. 

(8) The workmen of the Air Pillow Department «hall be employed 
directly by the Company on piece rate basis, 

(9) All workmen shall be entitled to be made permanent on completion 
of one year’s sérvice in terms of the Standing Order. 

(10) The parties heréin agree to have ten days’ festival leave per year 
with wages. 

(11) The workmen will be allowed statutory leave in terms of the 
Factories Act. 

(12) Involuntary unemplpyment benefit or lay off benefit shall be paid 
in terms of Industrial Disputes Act and/or Standing Orders. 

(19) Canteen in terms of the Factories Act and/or Rules shall be started 
as soon as possible. | 

(14), The workmen shall be entitled to Leave Pass Book. 

(15) 1119 Company has no objection in reféognising the Union. She 
Company ghalf be provided with a Union Constitution and resohutions fom 
time to time as and when such ,resolutions shall be passed by the Union. 

(16) The Union on behalf of all the workmen hereby withdraws cll 
claims in the form of charter of demands or any other shape or ‘orm 
submitted before the Company and/or the Labour Commissioner and/or 
before the Seventh Industrial Tribunal, Government of West Bengal, 
Calcutta. 

(17) It is mutually agreed by the parties herein that all -pending 
demands and/or disputes up to date are hereby settled. 

(18) Parfaes herein agree that the Company shall be free to retrencn 
workmen on the basis of last come and first go. 

(19) Apart from the points covered above the parties dgree not to raise 
any other issues, for.example, sitk leave (issue 4), Provident Fund, 
gratuities, medical ‘facilities and quarters (issues 8 to Id), employment 
book (issue 14) and bonus for the years 1952-5% 1958-54 (issue 16), pay, 
etc, (issue 17), library and school (issue 18) for the present. 

That in the above premises an appropriate award in the form of a no- 
dispute award be kindly made. : 

For East India Rubber Factory Mazdoor Umion. 
CHANDRESHWAR PRASAD SINGH, 
Secretary. 
Representing all the workmen. 


The 16th June 1956. 
Identified by me. 
H. L. ROY, 
P leader. 

The 16th June 1956. 


M. M. SAHA, 
Advocate. 


Kor East India Rubber Works, Lid. The 16th June 1956. 
{TLLEGIBLE], 
Managing Director. 


The 16th June 1956. 
Identified by me. 
K. P, MOOKERJEE, 


Solicitor. 


The 16th June 1956. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1956 


[Parr [ 


بک قد ee‏ جس مس مسج ee‏ ےک سح کڈ سس ےس سججے ac een ROR Ae emcee err an‏ 


Serial 


৪৪‏ ئ 


مر 2 ০৯‏ دہ ھی ৩০‏ 


— ہم مہم‎ ett 
on oa جع خ‎ Ww &— 


19. 


34. 


Amir Hoseen .. 
Rabindra Nath Ghose 
Bhaskar Dass 
۵618ھ‎ -7 ۱ 
Abdu] Rahaman 

Sibu Ram 000 
Man Bahadur 
LLashuman Lama 

Bib Chandra Daas 
Ketaru Ahir نے‎ 

Md. Lookman 

Yoar Ali 


* খাঁ mpaluliah 


Jaij Ahamad ? 
Hagari Kurmi 


Abhira} Chamar 


+ 


Name. 


oy ے‎ 
6 


Hari Swain... my 


Sultan Ahamad 

Moti Jaiswara 

Gopal Chandra Pass 
Monoranjan Dass 
Sitan Chahdre Uhose 


৯ 


Manmatha Nath Mukherjee 


a 
Rufal Ahamad 


Sridhar Nay#k — - 


Basanta Kumar Mahenti 
Sk. Abdul Hossen 

Ratan Bag... 

Rabial Hossen 

Rampat Dhobi 

Musha Mia 

Mohendra Chakraburty 
Upendra Kumar Pushilal 
Param Mansh Tewari 


a, 


ANNEXURE A 


4 


=o en‏ رو ری 
۶ 


Ticket No, 
E.T.A. 100 

| Do. 136 
۲ 27 
E.T.A. 61 

৪ Do. 47 
P, 30 
E.T.A. 95 

~ Do 17 
Do, 82 

2. 18], 348 
Do. 68 
5 Do. 62 
۸ Do. 1 
| Do. 8 
۰ Do. 84 
: Do. 8 
Do. ৪89 

Do, 185 

P 40 
E.T.A. 178 

; Do. 276 
Do. 64 

Do: Nf. 

Do. 337 

۱ Da ঠা 
«, Do. 279 

۱ Do. ۵1 
eo “Do. 8 
-» Do. 803 
Do. 165 
ہے‎ 11 

.. ETA, 28 
ox Fe 6 


Pant [| 
পি ہی‎ Fo ook COC সপ mas meneame 5 sapere 
Ticket No. 


Serial 
No 


35 
St 
$7 
38 
99, 
40, 
4], 


Naine : 

Hemendra Kumar ۰+ 5% . -7 ۱ بی‎ 
Saogat Ali. is 7 7 টিং ». Do. 
Ugrah (iowala 7 ۱ Do. 
Sripat Chamar yas 7 7 - os Do. 
Sanat Kr, Biewas ww ۱ ee ee De 
Akhlay Ahmad a -۰ 7 ۰ 

Bally Chama i Do. 
Soma) Harijan এ ۴٢ Do, 
Giridhari Jadah -۰ 7 - ক Do. 
Katnpar Ahir a er 7 7 oe Do. 
Gopal Chandra Kar — দি a 7 2% Do. 
Ram Singer Koiri a 7 Do, 
Bhubaneswar Bhowmick ¥Do. 
Copildeo Tewari (Hammerman) ৪৪ 7 as a Do. 
Sakondar Mesh 4 এ 5 7 - Do. 
Md. Safi Khan ۱ en : 7 ٦ টু Do. 
Khurshid Alam eh Do. 
Nabi Hossen .. 7 7 7 ag a Do. 
Hahimuddin . or کت‎ a” - 7 Do. 
Mrinal Kanti Goon 7 7 4 7 7 Do. 
Gogendra 8 7 ٤ ee Do. 
Pahali Mohanti গর 7 : 7 Do. 
Dol Gobinda Nayak Do. 
Durge Pada Biswas - ee 7 کت‎ a Do. 
Ali Ahmed .. ۰ ৮ রঃ ٠ ".. Do. 
Moti Lal Ahir ae : i a Do. 
Ral Karan Dhobt Do. 
Pachti Mandal . - রর 7 5 a Da. 
Megh 7 ৪৪ -۰ ۱ ٠ i 7 Do. 
Ramasharay Roiri i ie و‎ 7 7 Do, 
Anil দিন Kar ee 7 ৮ ও oe Do. 
Sukhdeo Sah রঃ 7 os a Do. 
Ram Ekbal .. 7 7 -7 7 Do. 
Sukhas Chamar 7 7 i me Do. 
Suloman Miah as ne انا ےپ۔‎ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTES 1118 5, [956 


a 


2666 


جائد 


"09 


326 


2666 THE CAICUTTA (FAZETTE, JULY 5, 1966 = [Parr 
নিলি --۔--‎ বল্ল 
7 Namo Ticket. No 
70 ‘Adittya Chandra Dass با ہہ‎ সি 
71. Sarjug Singh ۰ oo! = : 7 Do. 38 
12. Achhe Lal Sah ” . Do. 84 
1 3 Ganaghyam Swain : ০ ۱ Do 24 
74. Sk. Ahamad ৪ Do 70 
75 Chandradip Singh ‘ Do 233 
76. Hari Pada Ghose Do 78 
ধা, Nitya Gopal Sarkar ৮ রি : Do 77 
78 Anil Kumar Reha Do 1 
79 Robin Ghosh . 2 Do 825 
80 alta Prasad Mishra - Do. 94 
81. SovaRam .. ۱ 
82. AliHogsen *« - Do +192 
88. Ram Lochan Singh No 194 
84, Ram Bilas Singh ক Do. 198 
85. Kamala Pati Sharma এ Do 201 
66, Mulchand Sharma Do. 340 
87 Ram Chandra Jana ۱ Do. 104 
৪89, Parikhan Singh 7 . Io 2 
88. Rakhal Chandra asa... ۲ 1 
90, Noor Anmed .. ৮ Na 
91. Mohamed Miah Nil 
82 Gadadhar Bag ETA 228 
ANNEXURE B 
Serial Namo 
No. 
1. Binod Behan Das 
2. Suren Jona 
3. Haripada Mukhor ce 
4 Narendra Nath Biswas 


By order of the (tovernor, 
D.S. P. MOKTERIEE, Jt. Sery. 


Registered No. C207 


©) 
ae 


t 
7 
رھ‎ 
| 
a 


os es 


092 


(68211 


THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1956 


PART II—Advertisements, Notices 


Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, eto., in the 
۱ “Caloutta Gazette” (Part 18), 


1, Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete, in itself. 
9. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type 


written below the signature. 


3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of ‘‘Caloutta Gazette'’ shall be received by Publication 
Sales 0705 at New Seoretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Caloutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at 61884 OMoe 


at Allpore up to 12 noon on Monday. 


4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the Manusoripts. 


: 71018 and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT 
1 ক 6 WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


onsibie for delay in publication of an 


(PUBLICATION BRANCH), 


The Press shall not be held 


instructions tai 800৬9, 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING 


advertisement due to the non-observance of the 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 26 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 

osts from Indian citizens and persons migrated from 

akistan with intention of permanently settling in India 
or subjecta of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 
French possessions in India. Upper age-limits relaxable 
by 5 years for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
candidates and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
‘Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 
'No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and will 
in no case be relaxed beyond three years. Particulars and 
application forms from Secretary, Union Public Service 
ommission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. Requests for 
forms must specify name of post and should be accom- 
panied by self-addressed unstamped envelope for each post 
at least of size 9” x4" indicating thereon name of post for 
which forms are required. Closing date for receipt of 
‘appheations with treasury receipt or crossed Indian Postal 
Order for Rs. 7-8 (Re. 1-14 for Scheduled Castes and 
Tribes), 28th July 1966 (llth August 1956 for applicants 
from abroad). Conimission may remit genuinely indigent 
and bona fide displaced persons’ fee. Separate application 
with separate fee required for each post. Candidates 
abroad may apply on plain paper 1 form not available and 
deposit fee with local Indian Embassy. If required, 
candidates must appear for personal interview. 


1. Six Assistant Information Officers (External) / 
Assistant Press Attache (External), Ministry of External 
Affairs.—Posts temporary, but likely to continue indefinite- 
ly. Two posts reserved for Scheduled Castes and one for 
Scheduled Tribes candidates if such ‘euitable candidates 
uvajlable, otherwise all posts treated, unreserved, Payi— 
Ry. 340—25—500—E. B.—30--620. If posted abroad foreign 
allowance, free furnished accommodation or house rent 
allowance in lieu thereof, and medical facilities, as admis- 
sible under rules tor time being in force, will be provided. 
Higher initial pay to مر‎ qualified and ex erienced 
eandidates. Ager—Botween 25 and 45 years. elaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifications—Essential:— 
(i) Degree of recognised University with good academio 
record. Gi) Knowledge of India’s history and culture. 
(iii) Wide general knowledge of current affairs, Indian and 
Tnternational. (iv) Experience (preferably for two conse- 
cutive years) in নদ newspaper or news agency as 
Editor or Assistant Editor or as Reporter or Correspondent 


of newspaper or Journal, or experience in official publicity 
organisation. Qualifications relaxable at Commission's 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified 


2. One Epidemiologist in Maternity and Child Heaith 
Department, All-India Institute of Hygiene and Public 
Health under Ministry of Health.—Post ৬ but 
likely to continue. Pay:—Rs. 375—25—500—E. B.—30— 

E. B—30—800. Private practice including laboratory 
and consultant practice prohibited. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Aget— 

tween 30 and 40 years. Relaxable for Government 
servants. Qualifications—Essentiai:—(i) Medical qualifica- 
tion included in one of the Schedules to Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1933. (ii) Post-graduate qualification in 
Public Health. (iii) Experience in investigation and 
control of epidemic and endemic diseases. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise اوہ تم‎ 


3. One Medical Officer (Industrial Hygiene) in the 
Maternal and Child Health Department, All-India Institute 
of Hygiene and Public Health, Calcutta, under Ministry of 
Health.—Post وسر و‎ but likely to continue. Pay:— 
Rs. 375—25—500—F. B.—30-650—E. B.—80—800 ivate 
practice including laboratory and consultant practice 
prohibited. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Agei—Between 80 and 40 years. 
Relaxable for Government servants. Qualifications— 


d. One Officer-in-charge of Health Education in the 
Maternity and Child Health Department,  All-india 
Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, under Ministry of 
Health.—Post চারি, but likely to continue. Pay:i— 
Rs, 375—25—500—E. B.—380—650—E.B.—30—800. Private 
9 neluding laboratory and consultant practice prohi- 
ited. Higher initial pay +b specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:—Between 80 and 40 years. 
Relaxable for Government servants. Quallfications— 
Essential :—(i) Degree of recognised University in Natural 
Scienges or Social Sciences or Education or Medicine. 
(ii) Draining im Health Educetion. (iii) About three 
years’ experience in Hpalth Education, Qualifications 
relaxable, at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


314 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


[Parw 1 


সপ ৯ ০৯১১৯৯১৯৯১৯ 


5. (a) One Assistant Professor of Pubilo Health 
Administration in the Maternal and Child Health ۰ 
ment; (b) One School Health 07061 طا‎ the Alt-Indla 
institute of Hygiene and Publilo Health, Caloutta, under 


Ministry of Health.—Posts temporary, but likely to 
টিপা لی‎ Pay:—Rs. 375—25—500—E. وو و‎ B. 
সা _ Private practice including laboratory and 
consgitant practice prohibited. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Agei— 
Between 30 and 40. years. Relaxable for Government 
servants. Quallificatlons—Essential 1—(i) Medical qualifica- 
tion included in one of the Schedules to the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1933. (ii) Post-graduate , qualification im 
Public Health. (iii) For post (a)—Experience in teachin 
and as District Health Officer or as Medical Officer 3 
Health of Health Unit; For post (b)—Experience in اس‎ 
ing and in School Health work. Qualifications 16٥6 


at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise 


well-qualified. 


_ One Assistant Chief (Health), Planning Commission. 
_ (০ temporary, but likely to eontinue indefinitely. 
Other things being equal, preference given to ۳80ج‎ 
Castes/Trbes candidate. Pay:—Rs. 800-—60—1, a 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and ex পল 
candidate. Age:—Between 30 and 45 years. elaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifications—Essential:— 
(i) M.B.B.S. or other equivalent qualification بد‎ oie 
with Indian Medical Council. (ii) Degree or diploma in 
Public Health. (iii) About 3 years’ experience in respon- 
sible position in edical or Public Health administration. 
Qualifications relaRable at Commission’s discretion in casé 


of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


7. Director, Bureau of Text Book Research, Ministry of 
Eduoation.—Temporary, but likely to continue. Payi— 
Re. 800-401, 000. igher initial pay to specially 
qualified . and experienced candidate. Age 1—Preierably 
below 45 years. Qualifications—Essential:—(1) At least 
second class Master's degree in Arts or Science of recog- 
nised University or রা and (588٥٥۳۵ degree in 
Education, (ii) About ears’ teaching experience in 
Secondary Schools and/or Training Colleges. (iii) Special 
study of curricula and text-books. 7 cations relaxable 
at Commission’s discretion ig case of candidates otherwise 


well-qualified. 


8. Assistant Director (Machine Tools), Small industries 
Service Institute, Ludhiana, Ministry Commerce and 
Industry.—Post temporary, but likely to continue. Other 
things being equal, preference given to Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes candidate. Pay:—Rs. 350—350—380—380—30—590 
—E.B.—770—40—850. Higher initial pay to_ specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age:—Preferably 
helow 35 years. Quallifoations—Essential:—(i) About 
5 years’ sound practical experience in manufacture of 
machine tools or inspection and testing of machine ০০1৪ in 
responsible position in firm of repute. Qualifications relax- 
able at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


PART ৪, 


Closing date for receipt of applications for three posts 
of Mechomical Operator in the Hollerith Section of the 
Office of the Union Public Service Commission, Dholpur 
House hte Delhi, is 28th July 1956. Two posts reserved 
for Scheduled Castes and one for Scheduled Tribes. 80816 
of pay:—Rs. 5 125—5—130 plus usual allow- 
ances admissible at Delhi. Agei:—Below years. 
Qualifications—Essential:i—(i) Matricdlation or equivalent 
‘qualification. (ii) Must know Punching and Verification 
on Hollerith Maaghines. Desirablei—Typing speed of 30 
words per minute. No 00-7 fee is required for these 

sts. Applications on plain paper to be submitted to the 

retary, Union Public Service Commission, New Delhi, 
giving undermentioned  phrticulars: 1. Name. 2. 
Address. 3. Place and date of birth. 4. Present posi- 
tion and salary. 5. Educational qualifications (Matric 
upwards). 6. Experience with full details of previous 
employment, u any. The posts are at present temporary 
but likely to continue. 


Survey of india Examination, November 6 


{THE Union Public Service Commission will hold a com- 
bined competitive examin&tion at Calcuta, Delhi and Madras 
some time in November 1956 for recruitment to the Survey 
of India, Class I and Class IJ, Services. Age-limits, on 151 
August 1956—General :-—20-265 years; For employees of the 
Survey of India Department:—20-28 years. سا‎ age; 
limit relaxable in case of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled 
Tribes, bona fide displaced persons from Pakistag#t or from 
the unliberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir, residents of 
the former French Settlements which have now become part 
of India. Qualificationsf—B.A. or B.Sc. degree with 
Mathematica as one of the subjects or Engineering degree 
or diploma or its equivalent. Full particylars and epplica- 
tion forms obtainable from Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commisaon, Dholpur House, ‘New Delhi, by remitting 
Re. 1 by Money Order or on cash payment ۷ھ‎ the counter. 
Candidates must clearly state on Money Order Coupons 


“Survey of India Examination, November, 19881? and also 
glve thelr name and full postal cddress in Capital Letters. 
Postal Orders or cheques or Ourrency Notes will not be 
accepted in lieu of Money Orders. Completed applications 
must reach Secretary, Union Public Service Commission 
by the 26th August 1956 (8th September 1956 in case of 
candidates residing abroad), 


ee. | کے‎ eee ee و رر‎ 
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No, 25 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary vacancy in 
the pust of Qoat Breeder for the Central Livestock 
Research-cum-Breeding Station, Haringhata, in the West 
Bengal General Service. 


liftcations.— 
0 ۶ Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India; 


(ii) A degree or diploma in Animal ۰۷پ‎ Agri- 
culture or Veterinary Science, or M.S8o. in Zoology 
with post-graduate training in Animal Genetics or 
Animal Breeding; | 


(iii) Practical experience of breeding and ‘management 
of goats. 


Desirable 
Knowledge of Bengali. 


Age between 25 and 35 years on lst July 1956. The 
upper age-limit is relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled Castes | 
pee and up to 45 years for displaced peraons from 

akistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivi Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Fast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of Hast Bengal after partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 250—20—650—25—750 
per month plus usual dearness allowance. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of appiloation.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Oandidates who are 
unable to obtain co,ies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form ehowing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette” of the lst September 
1956, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not Jater titan the 27th July 1956. 


(4) Particulars and oertificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
ai 2 persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


* 


_ (5) Fee.—Condidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 jn the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXX VI—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, ete., in lien of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Posta] orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should he crossed and made payable "0 “The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, est Bengal’. 
No application will be considered unless accompanied with 
the requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their 4 98801 officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


Part IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY §, 1956 


A145 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide“displaced person from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g. 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from # gazetted officer 
or 4 Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in origina from ৪ 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show tat he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee.” 


(6) Address.—Oandidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officiala of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneons recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. 6. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 27th June 1966. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Examination for recruitment of Press Apprentices, 1956 


IN partial modification of Commission’s advertisement 
No. 18 it is notified for general information that the 
number of apprentices to be recruited on the results of 
the examination has been revised thus: Lino Operator—1; 
Compositors—5; Monotype Caster—1; Binders—3, 


Qualifoations.—Candidates must have passed the School 
Final Examination of the Board of Secondary Education, 
West Bengal, or its equivalent and must not be less than 

6 and more than 20 years of age on the 18৮ July 1956. 
The upper age-limit is relaxable by five years for a 
member of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes and 
by three years for a displaced person from Pakistan and in 
certain other cases. 


Copies of detailed notice and application form obtainable 
free of cost from the office of the Commission, Anderson 
House (ground floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or 
on sending a self-addressed stamped envelope. 


Pepe date for the receipt of the applications has been 
extended up to 9th July 1956. 


৪. C.“CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 26th June 1956. 
297ص1‎ 
IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE,- BIRBHUM 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO, 6 OF 1955 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Sitaram Panjabi, son 
of late Iswar Das Panjabi, of Bolpur, police-station and 
Chouki Bolpur, district Birbhum, has epplied to this Court 
for bemg adjudged an insolvent. The 30th day of July 
1956 has been fixed for hearing thereof. 


7.0 RAI CHOUDHURI, 
District Judge. , 
Suri, the 22nd June 1956. 
(526—1) 


ن0 


IN THE SECOND COURT OF THE MUNSIF, SITA- 
MARHI, MUZAFFARPUR, BIHAR 


MONEY SUIT NO. 184/55 


Thanma] Narain Prasad, a partnership firm, having its 
head office and post office at Janakpur Road, through 
its partner Budhu Lall Babuna, police-station Pupri, 
plaintiff, 


e 


versus 


Union of India, New Delhi, through General Manager, 
Railway Board, New Delhi, and others, defendants. 


To Eastern Railway Administration, having its head office 
at Netaji Subhas Road in the town of Calcutta, through 
its General Manager. 


been fixed for disposal of the ¢ 7৮. 
to appear in court either وللہ مہ‎ or سی‎ a duly 
authorised pleader who may answer the claim. Take 


you. 


Given under my hand and the seal of the court, this the 
25th day of June 1956. 


H. P. CHAUDHURY, Maunsif. 
(534—1) 


SHRI SATYES CHANDRA SEN GUPTA, M.A., B.L., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(481—4) 


I, CHHAGAN LAL SHARMA, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 0 


eT 


I, KARTIC CHANDER DE, LL.B., intend to be enrolled 
as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 
(488—4) 


I, SANTI BRATA SEN GUPTA, B.L., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. ( 


I, SM. APARNA BHATTACHERJEE, M.A., LL.B., 
intend to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


: (485—4) 


MAHABIR PRASARQ CHOUDHURY, LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


%492—4) 


I, MUKULPRAKAS BANDYOPADHYAY, LL.B., in- 
tend to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(493-4) 


I, SUKUL PROSAD, LL.B., intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 
ঃ (502—4) 


JITENDRA NATH SANYAL, M.A., LL.B., Attorney- 
at-Law, intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, 


Calcutta. 
(613—4) 


I, ANANTA MOHAN GUPTA, B.L., Pleader, intend to 
be enrollad as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(514—4) 


I, SIPRA GAYAN, LL.B., intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 
(615—4) 


DINANATH “11۸11:8۸, M.A., LL.B., intend b 
enrolled as an Advocate m the Calcutta High Court. نات‎ 


: (521—4) 


SUNIL KUMAR MITRA, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 


(533—4) 


316 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


[Parr Hf 


NOTE . 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Caloutta office of 
igsue are stated to have been destroyed and applications for 
payment of their value have been received from the person/ 

y whose names are shewn against the numbers. Any other 
person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as having a 
tight to them is/are warned to communicate at once with the 
undersigned :— 


; Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 

the applicant. 

Re, 
W.D.200/55-56 H/4-897666 100 Shri <Kewal Ram 
indi) Sharma, village Nan- 
H/11-759862 100 gal Babaji, post office 
(Non-Hindi). Baweal, district 
Gurgaon. 

W.D.300/55-56 H/8-017404 100 Shri Gour Mohan Dhur, 
(Hindi). 60, Monohardass 

Street, Caloutta. 
Kalyan Chand 


W.D.801/55-56 H/2-098363 100 Shri 
(Hindi Varma, 1B, Judgee 
H/8-480809 100 Court Road, Caloutta- 


(Non-Hindi). 27 
W.D.802/55-56 H/11-838171 100 Shri Ram Narayan 
(Non-Hindi). Gupta, post office 
and village Kuari, 


district Purnea. 


W.D.808/55-56 H/6-164804 100 Shri Kalu Singh, 5110, 


(Hindi). Gariahat Road, 
০০০ Ballygunge, Cal- 
cutta-19, 

W.D.304/55-56 H/16-123778 100 Shri Kanai Lal Balo, 
(Hindi). C/o. Shri Harendra 
Nath Roy, 137, Bow- 
bazer Street, 

Caleutta-12. 


W.D.805/55-56 H/18-078872 100 
(Hindi) 
ts 100 Shri Jugal Kishore Seth, 
(Hindi) 1341, Ved Wara, 
H/3-045514 100 Delhi. 
Hindi 


297 100 


(Hindi). 
W.D.306/55-56 H/10-901619 100 
(Hindi) 
H/10-901620 100 Shri Khogeswar Gohain, 
(Hindi) Postal Clerk, Rajmai, 
H/10-901621 100 district Sibsagar, 
(Hindi) Assam. 
H/10-901622 100 
(Hindi). 
a 8. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 
bth June 1956. 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office of 
18808 are stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value have been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himself /themselves as having 
a right to them is/are warned to communicate at once with the 
undersigned :— 


Register No. Notes No. Value, Name and address of 


the applicant. 


W.D. 307/55-56 B/72-826600 100 Shri Bapalal Juthabhai, 
B/71-533391 100 70889 Junction, Sau- 


rashtra. 
W.D. 308/55-56 H/14-686821 100 Shri Jitendra Nath 
(Hindi). Chatterjee, P2 Mis- 
sion Row Extension, 
Calcutta-1, 
W.D. 309/55-56 0 100 Shri Sheo Shankar 
(Hindi). Shukla, 48 /33 
Hazarilal Temple, 
Lath Mohal, Kanpur. 


8. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer, 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 8th 
June 6. 


NOTES. | 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and an applica- 
tion for payment of their value has been received from the 
person/party whose names are shown against the 
numbers. Any other person/party who consider(s) him- 
selt/themselves as having a right to them are warned to 
communicate at once with the undersigned:— 


Register Notes No. Value. Name and address of the 
0, applicant, 


Ra. 


W.D.312/56-56 B/6-187178 100 Shri Ranchhoddas Vithal.- 
das, Merchant, 16 Dad 
Seth Agiary Lane, Kal- 


badevi Road, Bombay 2. 
W.D.813/55-56 H/3-868718 100 Shri Suba Singh, village 
_ (Non-Hindi), Parsa, st office Nau- 

batpur, district Patna. 


W.D.314/55-56 5 100 Shri Abdul Aziz, T. No. 
( 


on-Hindi). 207504 Clerk, Labour 
Department,,Tisco, Jam- 
shed pore.’ 


৪. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 
20th June 1956. 


SS উল তা 
NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Caloutta office of 
issue are stated to have been destroyed and applications for 
payment of their value have been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as having 
a right to them is/are warned to communicate at once with the 
the undersigned :— 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Rs. 
W.D.310/55-56 .. H/8-210774 100 Shri Gour Mohan 
(Hindi). Dhur, 69 Mono- 
hardasa Street, 
Calcutta. 


100 Shri Anu Majhi, vil- 
lage | Chandiram- 
pur, post office 
Birohi, district 
Nadia. 


W.D.311/65-56 .. H/16-1843879 
(Hindi). 


8. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 14th 
June 1956. — 


NOTES, 


PORTIONS of the সন Date of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have n destroyed and applica- 
tions for payment of their value have been received from the 
person/party whose names are shown against the numbers. 
Any other person/party who consider(s) himself/them- 
velves as having a right to them is/are warned to com- 
municate at once with the undersigned :— 


Register No. Notes No, Value. Name and address of 


the applicant. 
Rs. 


100 Shri Raj Kumar Jain, 


W.D. 315/55-56 A/88-440254 
Kacha Bagh, Chandni 


শু /11-93932] | 


(Hindi). Chowk, Delhi. 
۷0. -6 sr re 100 Shri Akula  Chinna 
(Non-Hindi). Venkatramiah Chetty, 
Shroff Merchant, 
Cuddapah. 
W.D. 317/65-56 11-606 100 Shri Raj Kumer Jain, 
(Hindi). Kacha Bagh, Chandni 


' Chowk, Delhi. 


শি 


8. .کا‎ SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 
22nd June 1966. 


Parr IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 317 


eee 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


Notification No. 247 


IT is hereby notified under the provisions of sub- 
wection (1) of section 107 of the Calcutta Part Act, °1890 
(Bengal Act 111. of ات‎ that the following further 
alterations in_ the Schedule of Charges contained in 
Notification 190, dated the 2nd February 1946, to take 
effect from the 15th July 1956, have been approved by the 
Central Government, namely :— : 


In the said “schedule— 
In section 11—Diversion charge— 


For the words and figures ‘'A chargo of Rs. 2-8 is 
levied for the rebooking of foreign wagons from 
Junction” at. the end of the section, substitute the 
words and figures ‘‘A charge at the rate of Rs. 2-8 
for a four wheeler, .ھا(‎ 3-12 for a six wheeler and 
Rs. 5 for a bogie is levied for the rebooking of 
foreign wagons from Junction’’, 


By order of the Commissioners, 
۲ ۹۰ MITTER, 
Secretary. 


the 26th June 1956. 
(524—1) 


COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


gummary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Com- 
missioners’ 2487th Meeting, held on the 27th Maroh 
1086. 


AT the 2487th Meeting of the Commissioners, held on 
the 27th March 1956, the following business was 
transacted :— 


1. Capital Finanoe—Repayment of loan.—The Commis- 
sioners decided to exercise the option for repayment of the 
& per cent. 1926-56-86 (second) loan of Rs. 1 crore by 
giving the requisite six monthe’ notice. 


2. Application for a loan of Rs. 50 lakhs from Govern- 
ment for financing certain projects covered by the first 
Five-Year Plan.—The Commissioners decided to apply to 
Government for the grant of a loan of Rs. 60 lakhs for 
linancing certain projects covered by the Port Developmefit 

9029, 


3. Auotioneering Contract.—The Commissioners approv- 
ed the acceptance of the offer of Messrs. Kybert Andrews 
Auction Mart, the lowest tenderers, for doing their 
auctioneering work for a period of two years with effect 
irom lst April 1956. 


4. Accident to the 8.5. ‘‘Maharaja’’.—The Deputy Con- 
servator’s recommendation was approved. 


The Commissioners also sanctioned routine establishment 
proposals and routine proposal, relating to execution of 
works, purchase of material, romiseien of charges, grant 
of leases, eto. 


P. 0. MITTER, 
Secretary. 


The 23rd J ; 
e 20380 June 1956 (625—1) 


NOTICE 


MY client Mr. L. Gopalakrishna yer of 8B Prince 
G Ahmed Road, Calcutta-29, po ice-atation Tolly- 
gunge, Calcutta, has revoked the Power of Attorne 
granted in favour of Mr. L. Parameswara lyer an 
registered in Book No. IV, Volume No. 1, pages 208-300, 
being No. 322 for the year 1954 of the office of Registrar 
of Calcutta, dated 4th February 1964. My olient will not 

bound by any act done under the said Power which has 
been cancelled and also declared inoperative for ever for 
all purposes whatsoever. 


8. K. BANARJI, 
Rai Sahib, Advocate, High Court, 
Calcutta, Notary Public. 


Koonja Nibas, 23A Sardar Sankar Road, Calcutta-29, the 
258 June 1966, (69) 


NOTICE is hereby given to all concerned that the part- 
nership business subsisting between Shri Kishen Chand 
Arora and Shri Ramlubhaya Arora in connection with 
Kulpataru Cafeteria has been dissolved on and from the 
20th June 1966 by retirement of the undersigned from the 
said business which is now being carried on by Shri Kishen 
Chand Arora alone who alone is responsible for payment 
of the debts and liabilities of the hid business. 


Dated the 23rd day of June 1956. 
RAMLUBHAYA ARORA, 


(528—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1956, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF INTERNATIONAL PRINTING 
MACHINERY (PRIVATE), LTD. 


NOTICE is hereby given fhat at an Extraordinary 
General Meeting of the members of the Company held at 
P. 30 Princep Street, Calcutta, a special resolution was 
passed unanimously to wind cee Company as a creditors’ 
voluntary winding up. Shri M. L. Mitra, a Director, was 
ee Liquidator by the creditors in their meeting duly 


P. K. SEN GUPTA, Director. 
The 27th June 1956. 


(530—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF KUMARKHALI BANKING 
CORPORATION, LTD., HAVING ITS REGISTERED 
OFFICE AT KRISHNAGAR, NADIA, WEST BENGAL 


BY an order made by the High Court at Calcutta in the 
above matter, dated the 23rd day of May 1956 on the 
petition of the abovenamed Bank, it was ordered that the 
said Bank be wound ap by the said Court under the provi- 
sions of the Indian Companies Act and that the Court 
মোনা be appoin Official Liquidator of the said 

ank. 


B. 0. MITTER, 
Attorney for the said petitioner. 
Dated the 26th day of June 1956. 
(585—1) 


INTERNATIONAL PRINTING MACHINERY (PRIVATE) 
LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION). 


Liquidator’s Notice. 


TAKE notico that I. the undersigned, the Liquidator of 
the aforesaid Company, have fix Saturday, the 29th 
September 1956, as the day on or before which the 
creditors of the Company are to prove their debts and 
claime, otherwise they will be excluded from the benefit 
of any distribution made before such debts are proved. 


M. L. MITRA. 
P, 89 Princep Street, Calcutta-13, the 27th June 1956. 
(531—1) 


318 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


[Pani 1 


IN THE MATTER OF THE iNDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1058, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF GREAT INDIAN MARITIME CO. 
PRIVATE LTO. (IN LIQUIDATION). 


Creditors’ Voluntary Winding up. 


NOTICE 1s hereby given pursuant to section 509, a 
meeting of creditors of the Company shall be held at 3 p.m. 
and a meetmg of the contributones at 4 p.m., both to be 
held at 11 Old Post Office Street, Ist Floor, Calcutta-1, 
ut the office ot Laxman B, Jha & Co., Chartered Account- 
118) on 3188 day of July 6. 


P, N. JHA, 
Liquidator. 
Calcutta, the 23rd June 1956. 
(699 1) 
LOST RECEIPT. 
A RECEIPT numbered a dated 27th April 


1956, and granted by the Reserve Bank of India, Public 
Debt Office, Calcutta, on submission of the undermentioned 
Govermnent Promissory Notes. Notice of toss hae been 
سی‎ to the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt Office, 

alcutta, and the undersigned is about to apply for 
purrender of the securities: — 


G. P. Note No. Loan. Amount. Holder's name. 
Re. 

BY 071027/30 3 per cent., 25,000 each 

1963-65. 
BY 013480/81 8h percent. 1,000 each 

0১১15 1964. 
BY 066936 500 
BY 066278 100 
BY 64 100 each 
MS 061422 100 
M8 047071/72 1,000 each 
MBS 054] 42 10,000 
BY 107683/85 25,000 each 
BY 107586 
ا‎ (New No, CA 025216) 25,000 Bird & Co. (Pri- 

5 vate), Ltd. 
76 26,000 each 
DH 013938/39 5,000 each 
MS 014881 5,000 
DH (014560/72 1,000 each 
DH 017065 5,000 
MB 002682 we 1,000 
BY 1141023/30 25,000 each 
BY 111032 25,000 
7۷141 91০ cent. 25,000 each 
PL, 
1964. 


Name of the holder—Bird & Co. (Private), Ltd. 


Resilence—A'hartered Bank Buildmgs, Calcutéa. 
(627—1) 


LOsT 


THE Government تج‎ Notas Nos. CA027286 and 
0۸026710 of the 3 Le cent, loan of 1970-75 for Re. 0 
each originally stan ng in the name of Reserve Bank ot 

ia and last endorsed to Aswini Coomar Chatterjee and 
Santosh Kumar Chatterjee, respectively, the proprietorn, 
by whom they were never endorsed to any other person, 
having been lost, notice is hereby given that payment of 
the above notes and the interest thereupon have been 
stopped at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank of India, 
Calcutta, and that application is about to be made for the 
issue of duplicates in favour of the proprietors. The 
public are cautioned against purchasing or otherwise 
dealing with the abovementioned securities. 


Signature of the advertisers—Aswini Coomar Chatterjee 
and Santosh Kumar Chatterjee. 


Residence—Village Andul Dakhinpara, post office Andul 
Mauri, district Howrah. 
(4973) 


J 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the UTED hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Belvedere have 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1958. 
revised working hours are specified mal 


Reading Rooms— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 


Suadaya and holidsya—10 am, to 6 pm. 

Lending Section— 
Week days (molading Saturdays)}—1l0 a.m. to 5 p.m 
Sundays and holidaye—l0 a.m. to 1-90 p.m. 


The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, how- 
ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
year:— 


ublic D ii) Imdependence Day and (iii) 
7 ahatma Gan 2 Birth Day.. : 


Persons sbove 16 years of age are eligible to make tee 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open ۸ 
any one residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
is mo subscription to pay but security in cash is qusential 


B, 8. KESAVAN, 
Librarian 
Belvedere, Calcutta-27, the 6th March 1964. 


Registered No. C207 No. 27 of 1956 


01 


¢ THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1956 


CONTENTS: 


Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West 
Bengal for the weok ending the 48٤ 
June 1956 ee ee ee 389—390 


Second Forecast of Whoat Crop of Wost 
Bongal for 1955-56 ae ee ee 391 


Daily rainfall] recorded in West Bengal for the 


Pages. 


months of June and July 1955 .. -- 392—399 
Second Forecast of Gram Crop of West Bengal 
for 1955-56 ve و‎ —“* 400 


= ee ہے‎ পা... 
وعصو‎ জব ےم‎ শা Se 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 21st June 1956. 


Summary.—During the week under report there was rainfall in thirty-five subdivisions. The weather conditions wure 
unfavourable in eighteen subdivisions. Transplantation of Aman and Aus continuing in some subdivisions. The condition of the 
standing crop was on the whole fair. 

The fodder was reported to be insufficient in fourtoen subdivisions and cattle-disease was reported from seven subdivisions. 


The wages of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight only during the week under report. 


Total The minimum 
rainfall price of coarse Character of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospesta of Fodder Oattie. Labour wages 
Districts and during rice in seers per weatherandits agricultural opera- seed, ifany. theastanding condition. disease , without food, 
subdivisions. the rupes. effect on the tions. crops 
week, ৪৮ পদ্মা standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous outturn). 
week, week. 
1 2 Se) ৪৮) 4 5 8 ۲ ৪ 9 10 
24-Parganas. 
Sadar ee ae 2 2 even در ٹیب‎ ee یب‎ ee oe চা 
Diamond Harbour 2°65 115/16 2 Unfavourablo Seediing in bed 8০800 .. Not good .. Insuffictent Reported .. Rs. 1-8, 
HKarrackpore.. ve 2 1/16 2 1/10 Ditto .. Agricultural Ditto .. Falr oe Ditto .. No report .. Ra. 2. 
optration sus- 
pended for 
rain. 
Baraset 7 4۰08 2 2 Ditto ak خی‎ যন Insufficient Not good .. 1814” ہہ‎ Ditto .. Ra, 1-12, high. 
0 man 
. commenced. 
Basirhat oe 6:14 2 % 1/16 Favourable .. Cultivation as ee و‎ Ditto .. Ra. 1-8, 
completed. 
Bongaon 2 8۰ 2 2 2/16 Unfavourable Growing of ae - Insufficient Ditto .. RBs. 2, high. 
Aman 8ء‎ 
continued. 
Nadia. : 
Sadar 7 6°23 115/16 118/16 Favourable .. Transplantation ۰ as নে Reported .. Ra. 1-12. 
٠ of Aman brisk. 
Ranaghat ». 0°48 115/16 116/16 ~ Ditto .. Intercultural ve Fair .. Insufficient No report .. Re. 1-8, 
operation cone 
tinuing. 
Murshidabad. 
Sadar ve 4:27 115/16 2 Unfavourable le of “ig 5 Sufficient .. No report .. Ea. 1-8, norma). 
K pro- 
gressing. 
Lalbagh ॥ 1:20 2 115/16 Favourable .. Preparation of Sufficient .. Fair و‎ Ditto .. Ditto .. Rs. 1-5 
Aman land 
continued. 
Kandi ee 6°30 2 2/18 2 2/16 Ditto .. Tranaplantation Ditto. Do. Ditto .. Reported .. Roe. 1, 
of Aman canti- 
nued. 5 
۰ t .- Preparation of Ditto .. Do. ১০ Insuffictent oreport .. Ra, 1-8, 
Jangipur a 6°72 114/16 115/16 Ditto রা 2 mh ings 
continued. 
Burdwan. Intercultural § Suffloient Fair Insufficient 770 report Ra. 1-1 
, ae rou 00 ٠ ve rt .. = 
Sadar 7 6:82 116/16 116/16 Favourable দি ডি 2 
pendod. 
; d .. Hield operation Ditto... ee Ditto ہہ‎ Ditto... 
Kalna 6:10 114/16 116/16 Cloudy টা in Rs, 1-8, 
some 1+ 
* 15116 Favourable .. Ploughing for Nitto... Fair ১৯. Sufficient .. 
Katwa و‎ 4:30 2 1 15/ Aman ete Ditto . Ra. 1-4, 
0. 


Asansol 7 ve 2 8/16 2 6/16 ৪৬৯৪ مہہ‎ sa as ৪৪ be ق و واج‎ 


390 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1956 
ব্লু ے۔ و‎ 
e 
Total The minimum 
raintall Rew of coarse Character of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospectseof Fodder Cattle. Labour wages 
Districts ana during fice in ein per weatherandite agricultura) opera- seed, ifany. thestanding condition. disease, without 1001. 
subulviaiona, the effect on the tlons. crope & 
week. etn standing crops. (estimated 
Thia Previous outturn). 
week. week. 
} 2 506) ৪80৮) 4 ৪ «6 . 7 8 9 10 
Birbhum 
Sadar 6:22 115/16 115/16 Uufavourable Aman seed Insufficient Fair ee ve Reported .. Ba, 1-8, 
land effected 
due to rain. রে 
Rutapurhat 12:00 116/16 2 Ditto -. Seodling dama- oe Not good .. Sufficient .. Noreport .. Ras, 1-6, 
ged by heavy 
rains. 
Bankura. 
Sadar $73 2 8/16 2 3/16 Favourable .. Ploughing and ve Fair . Sufficient .. Reported .. Ra. 1-8, 
Inanuring con- 
tinued, 
Vishnupur ٤ 8۰:91 2 1/16 2 2/16 717 ee Ditto os oe Do. ot Ditto .. No report .. Re. 1-4, norma 
Midnapore. 
Sadar (North) .. 6 00 2 1/16 2 1/16 و‎ হি preparation +“ ae Sufficient .. Ke Ra. 1-8. 
Sadar (South) .. we 2 1/16 2 1/16 nine er oe os aa és eae 
Contai im $-05 116/16 115/16 Cloudy দি 6 a Insufficient Reported .. দ্র 
Tamluk aa 6:32 2 2 Unfavourable Agricultural ve নি No report .. Re. 1-12. 
operation sus- 
pended due to 21 
rains. 
Ghatal a 670 2 2 1/16 Cloudy ae Ditto و‎ oy Not good Insufficient Ditto oa Ra. 1-8, low. 
Jhurgran ee 2:07 2 2/16 2 2/16 Favourable ee وہہ‎ ee ee Bufficient re op Ditto vet Ra. 1-4, 
Hooghly. 
Sadar se es 118/16 118/16 oops esece ee ee ce ee ৪৬৬ 
4110) 0821) es 2°08 এ 16/16 2 Favourable .. بے ا‎ of me Bufflcient .. Fair .. Sufficient .. No report .. Re. 1. 
0 
گیٹ‎ 
Serampur es 10:20 118/16 118/16 Unfavourable Preparation of 8 ৬৪ os te Ditto .. Ditto .. Ba. 1-10 
soed bed conti- 
nued, 
Chandorpagore ea 118/16 114/16 Ditto +. Weeding pro- Ditto .. Not good .. Ditto... Ditto .. Bas. 1-10, 
greasing alowly. 
Howrah. 
Sadar ee ee 1 16/16 115/16 ۰ھ‎ ৬৩৪৪ ee ae ee ee seee 
Uluberia ee ee 116/16 115/16 ৬৪০৪৪ 5৪৪৬৬ oe ee ee ee ৪৬৩৬ 
Jalpaiguri. 
Sadar aa 9 N.B. N.R. Cloudy -. Sowing of jute 4 দঃ as No report .. Ru. لا‎ 
b. progresaing. 
Alipurduar .. 16°91 114/16 114/16 عو‎ sens we hn Insufficient Ditto .. Ba. 2, 
88. 
Sadar ee a 111/16 1 11/16 Cloudy ہے‎ Field prepara- Sufficient .. Fair .. Sufficient No report .. Ra, 2 
tion continued. 
Kurscong ے‎ 14:43 112/16 112/16 ee Harvesting of Ditto... Do. তত Ditto ২, Ditto .. Ra, 2, 
suinmer vege- 
table conti- 
009৫, 
Siliguri ee 28°12 2 2 1/16 Favourable ھا یسا‎ Ditto. Do. ee Insufficient Ditto .. Re. 2. 
Sat یر‎ a“ 
Kalimpong = oe 980 115/16 115/16 Ditto .. Sowing of Ditto .. Nocrop... Sufficient .. Ditto .. Ke. 2, high. 
maize com- 
pleted. 
Maida -- 10°12 114/16 115/16 Unfavourable Kharif sowing Suffictent .. Fair Bufficiont .. No report Rs. 1-2, 
hampered due 
to rain. 
West Dinajpar. ; 
Sadar ee 11:91 115/16 2 Favourable .. Weeding jute Sufficient .. Fair .ےے‎ Suffelent .. Reported .. Rs. 1-10, norma 
and Aus contl- 
nued 
Raigan) es 11°88 115/16 N.R. Cloudy ne weenie tan Ditto... Do. ee Ditto .. Noreport.. Ra. 2, normal. 
an us 
stopped 
Gooch Behar. 
Sadar as 7 114/16 113/16 এটা F A 
Dinhate +» 19°02 114/16 115/16 Favourable .. Sowing of Aman Sufficient Fair -. Sufficient No roport .. Rs, 1-12, higl 
seedling conti- 
nued. 
Mathabhanga .. 3 1 12/16 3.2. Ditto ০ Jute partly Ditto... Do. as Ditto Ditto Rs. 2-8, 
damaged by 
heavy rain. 
Mekligunj 7 لا مم‎ 2 Unfavourable Intercultural Ditto... Do. ٠٠ Insufficient Dito .. Ras, 1-12, 
operation sus- 
pended. 
Tufangunj ৪৪ an 114/16 114/16 mates Aman secdiling Ditto .. = Ditto... Ditto .. Ra, 2 
progressing. 


Calcutta, the 28th June 1956. 


N.R.—No report. 


S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


39] 


—— SSS 


bIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE, WEST 
BENCAL. 


Calcutta, the 22nd March ۸ 


pucond Forecast of Wheat Crop of West Bengal 
for 1955-56 


Note.—The figures of last year except those for 
Darjeeling district as shown in this forecast 
have heen taken from the last year’s final fore- 
cast based on the results of samples survey con- 
ducted by the State Statistical Bureau. The 
figures for this year and also those of Darjee- 
ling district for last year as shown in this 
forecast are based on the reports received from 
the staff of the Directorate of Agriculture, 


crop in all the districts except Nadia, Malda and 
West Dinajpur. The subsequent weather condi- 
tions have been favourable tor the growth of the 
crop 1m all the districts except Burdwan, Malda. 


117,100 acres are estimated to be under wheat 
crop this year compared to 127,300 acres and 
141,000 acres reported respectively in the corre- 
sponding and in the final forecast of last year. 
The average outturn per acre of wheat for the State 
دہ‎ a whole is estimated at 9.44 maunds this year 
compared to 8.72 maunds and 8.66 maunds report- 
el respectively in the corresponding and in the 
final forecast of last year. 


West Bengal. ] 


Season.—The weather conditions 


have 


been 


generally favourable for the cultivation of the 


S. N. MUKWERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, 


Second Forecast of Wheat Orop of West Bengal for 1965-56. 


Estimated areas under wheat. 


Estimated outturn per 


acre, 
৮ amet cc 
District. Average of Last year Laat year 

receding final This (Anal This 

ve years. forecast. yor. forecast), 6 
(Acres.) (Acres.) (Acrea.) § (Maunds.) (Maunds.) 
1, 24-Parganas 7 400 200 500 8°39 10:00 
2 Nadia .. ia 15,200 10,400 9,200 7°80 8-00 
& Murshidabad ee 45,100 42,100 42,100 0°35 10-00 
4, Burdwan ae 5,800 6,900 7,000 12°74 12°70 
| Birbhum ce 18,800 14,600 12,600 0°84 11-20 
6. Bankura - 12,200 14,100 11,400 8:00 9°00 
7. Midnaporo 7 2,000 1,800 2,900 7°85 8°00 
৪, Hooghly i 1,000 900 280 8 9:00 
9, Howrah 7 ns 100 200 8°30 9:00 
lO, Jalpaiguri 7 1,800 2,600 1,100 4°86 5 00 

4 
11, Darjeeling 7 1,200 1,200° 1,200° 6°83 7°00 
[2, Malda ., Ve 17,100 29,100 12,200 8°20 8°00 
18. West Dinojpur 5, $,500° 6 700 8,000 4-85 6°70 
পৃ 

4, 00001) Bohar 3 8,400 11,800 11,700 8°75 8°60 
Total West Bengal .. 127,000 141,000 117,100 8°66 9°44 


Date by which the 
sowing of the crop 
enerally commenced 
this year and whether 
that date was carly, 
normal or late. 


Last week of November, 
late 
November, normal re 


Middle 


of October, 
normal, 


1st woek of November, 
norma 


Last week of October, 
normal, 

November ؛‎ early 
December. 


November, normal + 


Ist week of November, 
normal, 


November, normal] 
October-November, nor- 
mal. 


October-November, late 


October, norma) a 


Ditto .. 


November, normal ae 


®Kstimated by this Directorate. 


West Bengal. 


Remarks. 


The weather conditions have been 

favourable: for the cultivation and 
owth of the crop. Distribution of 
mproved seeds has been reported. 


The weather conditions 11958 not been. 
favourable duriug sowing period but 
চালাতে weather hes n favour- 
a e, 


The weather conditions have been falr 
for the cultivation and growth of 
the crop, 


The weather conditions have been 
favourable at the sowing periods. 
Prolonged drought after sowing 
caused atunted growth of the crop. 

The weather oonditions have been 

generally favourable. 


Ditto. 


The weather conditions have been 
favourable. Distribution of guod 
sceda amongst tho cultivators has 
been reported. 


The weather conditions have been 
favourable for the cultivation and 
growth of the crop. Diversion 
othor crops to wheat crop areas has 
been reported. 


Ditto. 


The weather conditions have been 
generally favourable. 


oe conditions have been‏ نے 
alr,‏ 


The weather conditions have not been 
favourable for the cultivation and 
growth of the crop. Damage 

». crop 7 insect pests has been 

* Teported., 

The weather conditions havo not been 
favourable, 


The woather conditions have been 
generally favourable. 


392 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6, 1956 


DAILY RAINFALL RECORDED IN WEST BENGAL 


1 2 17 18 20 


District and 


station. eee সম | উজ (এ pe | ০০৯০০ | مجسےسسمسبھے۔‎ শি উস একস || এত এজ Yl 'مسوممیمیہوسہےہے۔‎ 


8th Oth | 10th) 11th) 12th 16th} 17th 19th 


34-Parganas. 
Sagar Island (0085.) -۰ 0:05 | 0:47 | 09:56 | 0:84 au 1:74 0:06 1 2°43 0:12 
Diamond Harbour ax a 2:18 7 1۰4 | 1:00 ۵ 7 2-60 রি 
Budge Budge ve ae ee 0:83 es 0:80 ae 0:85 ৪ 0:60 oe 
11079 (0085) .. 0: a 0:10 | 0-02 | 0-82 | 0:05 | 0:89 sg 1:58 - 

Ore ৬৪ ve 1 1:60 ca ao ae a 2°63 0-30 on হু 

DYum-Dum (obsy.) e 0: es 1:20 | 0-01 | 0:24 7 009 0:02 | 1°23 রর 

Ant - 7 0: 0-90 ae و‎ 7 7 2:10 0-90 | 0-20 is 
Bashirhat ee oe ০. aa ae oe ve 1:20 0:90 ৬ ৪ es 
Gosaba e | 0°04 | 0" 0:82 be 0°45 | 0:79 | 0-05 | ۵ 1:72 ۵۹ ৪৬ 
سوا‎ .» | 0-70 2 1:50 -20 | 0-80 0-45 7 0:25 0.8 
91761119808 (obay.) a 0:02 | 0:20 | 1:06 | 0:0u ৬ 0:27 1 06 7 
District Total ০, 
District Average .. 

Nadia. 

Ranaghat .. | 0°80 0-20 | 6 7 0°05 | 0-40 0-1 2 7 
Krishnagar (obsy.) oe ‘ * ba “a es -. | 0°19 im 
Haringhata 7 


District Total .. 
District Average .. 


Murshidabad. 


20 pore (0৮৪5, 
erhnam ° 
শপ پا‎ 


District Total .. 
District Average ,. 


Weat Dinajpur. 
Pangarampur 010 নি 7 09 ১, 0:90 | 0-28 | 0:14 | 0:90 ‘ 
Ralganj nae dee ۱ .. 10:90 | .. 7 0۵ 
Balurghat 2 .. | 81001 .. ٠ 1:40 | 1:00 | 1-60 | 1°25 
District Total .. 

tAvorage .. 

Jalpaigurt, 


Jalpaiguri (obsy. 1:03 0-01 ৬৪ 0:36 ‘88 | 1:73 | 0-76 
All urduat اہو‎ এ / 


208 ১১ |1.65 | 4 85 |. | .. | 0:88 | 0-60 | 1.18 | 0-75 | 8°75 | 0-28 | 0-80 
| ., | 0.19 | 0-07 | 0-08 | 1-66 | 0-78 | 0-06 


District Total .. 
District Average .. 


Darjeeling. 
Siliguri 7 
Darjeeling (obsy.) 0:65 2-50 | 0:85 | 1°80 | 0-80 1 1-85 0-21 ne 1°91 
Kalimpong (obsy.) | 0-35 2:76) .. | 2:80] ,. | 4-20 7 Ae da 
Mongpoo se | 0°87 0:08 | 1°68 | 8-72 | 2-96 | 0:62 0:01 1 1 0:97 
কপ ** | 0-60 0°76 | 1°25 | 2-60 | 1°25 | 1-75 1°20 | 0:80 0:28 
Jsagdogra (obay.) | 0-68 0-11 | 8:04 | 2-48 | 0-26 | 0-97 0-81 | 0:40 1°66 
District Total ১ 
District Average .. 
Maida. 
Malda (0 e oe oe ۰" نم‎ | es eo ee as 2:64 
ہیں‎ ade ae 
Gazolo oe 0:07 ۰ চা হও ae ۰ ee 1:50 
District Total ., 
District Average ., 
Oooch Behar. 
Sadar (01)5$)06) .. 
orl aa এটা 0:88 es 7 1:00 | 0:৮0 | 1°63 <a 7 ‘ 2°86 
Mathabhonga .. | 2:15 5 7 0:12 | 1:21 | ۵6 7 ae و‎ 21 
Mekliganj *৭ | 0°60 os 48 7 1 ۳ 0-02 | 0:08 or 1-20 
Tufanyanj .. | 2°76 a6 1» | 1:60 1 2°50 1 1 ۱ 1 7 2°60 
এ | Ca | ete SSO 
District Total .. 
Diatrict Avorage ., 


(৫) Data not available, 


SUPPLEMENT TO TITE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 6۸ 6 907 
এলাচ ললঙ লস 


6 
FOR THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1955. 


36 $7 88 30 


Normal] Heaviest} Total Nurmal 
rainfall | rainfall | rainfall rainfall 
for the | during | from ist | for this 
month the June to period 
month | 80th 3 0٥9 


81 82 33 34 35 


Number! Normal] Total 
of number | rainfall 


০০০০ ০ ১ ১ (১ سسسسسے پآ‎ rainy of rainy for the 


days days | month 


0 0410 10 0 21 17 12 1 13 58 2 43 13 68 11 43 
0 60 18 12 0 14 6 2 7 14 06 11 34 
01910 08 0 08 13 18 7 7 47 0 00 7 7 12 63 
7 € 52] 0 37 0 $4 15 13 2 8 37 1 58 ৪ 37 11 69 
01 10 121 0| 2 63 9 70 12 22 
1 0 27 | 0 5 0 38 ; 14 12 4 10 01 1 78 10 01 11 54 
0 0 : : 10 12 3 7 05 210 7 05 998 
5 7 12 9 4 03 1 20 4 03 11 59 
0 18 10 130 6 02 172 6 92 10 0b 
7 1 05 11 127 8 1ج‎ 210 ৪ 1 10 60 
0 02 , 0 11 0 90 10 94 6 30 118 6 30 7 87 
130 | 196 7 06 RO 96 90 191 49 
11 82} 124 8 80 8 80 11 04 
0395 | 1 72 : 5 0 15 0 30 | 0 45] 0 25 14 12 1 6 72 1 72 6 72 ® 76 
804100410 06 0 001 0 % | 0 04 1 03 | 0 43 12 127 11 28 8 04 11 28 10 33 
109 7 29 
26| 867 18 00 2 18 00 27 88 
13 00} 119 00 9 00 918 
12 8 10°08 
0 60 | 0°19 নর .. | 0 46 0 041 0:80 10171 .. 10 12 3 6 75 2 00 6 76 9 67 
12 0 9-72 
0 38 11 9 9 73 
اھ‎ re , ’ 0 75 . ۲1 12 0 9 93 wo 99 10 08 
: 2 : 01014 83 : 0 116 9 00 4 09 9 00 9 14 ৩ 
11 9 9 42 
10 9 ৪ 86 
00-07 20 (n) (n) 
35 106 8 81 38 31 38 84 32 
8 75} 118 7 85 7 86 9 87 
0 80 | 0 221 0 80 0 26 | 0 20 0 50 | 0 16 : 18 ا‎ 6 35 1 25 6 86 1 47 
و‎ 0 4210 43] 0 20 010] .. 2 : ( 38 = 8 11 4 2 78 0 50 2 73 12 1 
75 015] 2 60 | 1 25 : 14 13 0 21 00 B 16 21 00 12-19 
86 48 3 90 08 30 08 47 16 
11 67 | 121 10 08 10 03 11 70 
286 | 076 | 4981 0 44/3 861208} 3 91 | 0 82] 0 89 10961 | 0 427] .. 23 19 1 92 4h 4 88 32 45 25 04 
te a و‎ 
6 056 | 2 44/0 88 | 0 27] 0 10] 6 75 0 76 | 1 40 25 92 6 44 21 6 75 44 21 42 18 
৪66 | 188 | 379 | 1 04 1 0 22/414] 2 62/0 71 0271 .. 21 91 5 44 44 11 66 44 44 32 8 
ای‎ 191 30 04 
০ ০ ১ (১ (১ [SS ০ 
9 118 3 | 121 10 | 197 98 121 10 107 98 
28 0 197 40 37 92°00 
2 00 27 1 
211 0 97 0 21 | 0 90 | 2 00 180] .. 21 0 24 35 2 50 24 35 24 18 
2 40 0 20 0 40 1 10 18 16 4 22 08 4 20 22 08 14 65 
1 55 0 87 0 64 | 0 10 2 36 ; 23 2 00 26 4 8 72 26 84 00 
1 75 0 10 0 75 | 1 26 0 75 ۰ 20 22 2 22 70 2 50 22 70 31 76 
22 18 36 
4 08 0 60 1191/0 1 020] .. 25 (n)| 25 70 4 08 25 70 (%) 
120 121 7 | 121 71 121 71 141 36 
24 00 | 203 24 84 24 34 23°66 
008 10356122921 | .. 0 08 006; , 8 115 6 25 ۶ 64 9 65 0 af 
035810 1 7 ۰ 0 98 | 0 53 10 11 4 & 99 1 50 & 99 958 
7 19 842 15 4 16 24 81 38 
950] 114 7 62 7 62 10 4 
0 4 1 22 084 1018 0 28 20 (%) | 17 00 গু 85 17 Ow 
0 10 1 25 0 10 | 0 07 0 40 22 n 22 40 2 05 29 40 : 
0 70 0 67 0 08 | 0 21 0 48 ; 19 # 18 3? ۴ 8 19 18 37 8" 
0 al 2 65 0 75 14 5) | 21 28 it 4 62 2i 28 ৪) 
নিক 76 n) | 79 14 ی _. ایوں< ۷.۱ 1۰۰م‎ 
18 76 ۶ 19 70 ام‎ 19 79 (*) 


(a) Not agoertained. 


394 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTH, JULY 4, 1966 


Eee 


DAILY RAINFALL RECORDED IN WEST BENGAL 


1 2 1|8 و 1 7 ]| ش8ش | ۹۴۴| ھ إ‎ ৪ | 19 | ہر‎ | ae | بر | 16 | 16 ور‎ 
District and 
sta Of. মি bee! جیسے۔۔‎ ene ہے سس جا‎ | ee | ee আজ ০ ০০০০০ ০১৩ ০ ২২ কন 


bat | 2nd ۵ 4th | 5th | 6th | 7th Sth | Oth? 10৮] 11৮] 12th 


Burdwan, 
Kalna we | 1°70 7 রি রা vi ie ee ea 1:60 ee = 0:55 | 5 7٠ 0:15 5 
70 وط‎ e oe 0:08 1 0:10 ee ees ee ae ea a s@ : e ees 
ےتسد‎ (০2৯৮০) ৫0 রর 12 0:80 


ea 0: ss رھ‎ oe 7 a ee ae 2 ee 
سرب‎ লস 7 مم 7 ۰ ۰ ,. ;)047 | ۰01[10۰80٥إ .مم‎ | 0-07 | 0-05 rT we =| 1:06 | 0°01 
2 ar i 
سی ا‎ os 0:70 0-10 ue oe oe ee as e@ ee 0:01 ae ee ৪ ৪ 
0 ٤١ ٠ 
اس ا‎ ্ is ae 0 62 0:26 an ee ee ea ee ae ee ee ae 1:00 0-62 ری‎ 


District Total . 
District Average .. € 
Birbhum, 
ne ৪ 
étampur oe 
Rampurhat ae 0:80 0:02 ea 0:02 ae es ee ee ee ee ee 0:25 0°48 ee ve ee 
Bolpur پ5‎ 
Murarai 
শান ۰ ee 0:40 | 0-60 pa oe ee oe ve ٠ ae 0:46 ٠ ee 
Mayureswar 7. | .. | 0-60 یت ا ئی‎ ۲ xe 1 ہے‎ ٢۲ ا یہ اھ‎ on FORT] یم‎ 9 ۰٥9 
District Total .. 
District Avorage .. 
Bankura. 
Bankura(obsy,) .. | .. 7 oo OBL] .. na ne 7 .ہہ | 018[ » . | 016 | ےم و‎ 
Vishnupur as 
Khatra oe ee oa 0°21 ae 0-53 ee ee ee 0:21 0-80 ۰ ee 1-11 ৪৬ ae 
re oe رق‎ ee 0:46 asa oe 0-60 ee ae se رم ار‎ 0:12 হও 0°16 0:08 
Kota ur 0ء وچ‎ ee ee ee ee 2 e oe ee ٠ ee ee ° ae . 
Onda” ৪৪ sie 0 80 0:08 as ee @e e ডু 0 7 ee 0:20 e ee ee 
Gangajalghati ees ee ea 0-46 ee e e ۰ ۰ ae ae ee eo ee 
pate kh 
anamu 5 
Taldangra eo ৪ 0:20 1:20 ee 0 40 ee ae ৬ e 0:97 0:10 1°10 0:80 ee 0:25 ۰ 
Saranga +* | «» {0°08 | 0:03 | ., و‎ 0:88 | . 0:92 | .. ** | 0119 | ., 7 
Ind ur ۰ ae ae oe 1-00 . 0-00 ee an ۰ on 0:96 ee ° ee we 1 
Barjora ٠ ao 6 1-25 eo + os ee ee ৬ ৪ » ae ae ee 1:08 ee 
| apal oa 0°10 0-28 0°10 ea 1 05 رم‎ ee ees ae 1-10 0:80 0°80 ৪৪ চা رف‎ 
داد‎ ee eo رط ذف‎ 9:40 ee ee ee ee aa oe ee ee 0°02 ve ae o¢ 
Chatna ই রা 7 রা eee লা ee cue irae lie Wipe oe ০ রি হজ 2 
দি 8 aa ea pe een 0-82 os 0°25 ae ee ee ee 1:00 he ee 0018 Le ea 
a ee 
تو‎ 6 7 0 08 0 45 ae 0 20 te ee ee ve 0-17 ae 0:03 ৬৬ oa 0:80 
mbikanagar ০, 
Poa 1 0 
a رھ‎ 9 te ae ee oe ee oe ee ea ee ঙ ৪ 
ue es oe oe 0:28 ۵6 oe $ ৪ ٠ oe ee oe 0:10 0-85 ۰ 0:67 


District Total ২. 
District Average .. 


Midnapore, 

Contal(obsy.) ০. | .. oo [O72] .. | Oa7] .. | 1°74] 0-41 | 180 1 0-78] .. 
Tamluk a 

সিনা (obsy.) 7 ১৪. | 0:04 ٦ নি: as ٦ +» ا‎ | 0:76 : 
Gha 72 

he ani ee ae 0-10 0:01 ee 0:16 0:62 ae 0-30 ee "1:05 0°38 0-80 


Chandrok = 
pros جع‎ i 7 oe ৬ ae ee ee oe ee 2-00 2 1:70 1:02 ٠ 
ار‎ e رف‎ 7 ۴ 0 e رق‎ eo 0° ٤ eae 

K ‘aii ره‎ ۰ ঙ ৪ ee oe ۰ ا‎ ile 0:95 0 30 0:20 ee 0°25 0 16 

ibailavpur .,‏ 
7 یں ام لص ao‏ 

ar ও 

manager ec ee eo oe oe ee ee 0 45 0°25 0-08 1-08 eo ee 2 2 40 1 57 
Mohanpur a 
Nandigram 7 7 4 রি ےہ‎ 4 0-25] .. | 0-18 | ۰08 | 0-26 1:62] .. ৪ 
a be ee ee ee Be 0:04 0:06 0:16 0 45 0°45 0-365 ee ee ৫ ee ee 0:26 
Rolagha ] 0:52 | 0-15] .. 


Kolaghat (Dainan - 1۱١٢١0٠٠ .. | 0:28 | 0190 | 1:00 | .. | 0-87 | 1-00 
শা 


0 ٠ 

21081871800 ৭] ےے ا1ے‎ 1١ہ‎ ١ یی‎ ١0*88 ۲] ,,.  ؟ فو بی | ےم ۱89۶381۲ 11۶87 ہے ] ھمے,‎ ove ۱٠ 

٠‏ تام 

miagora 

enria a oe ee ae رہ‎ ea ea ea ae 0:60 0:20 ea oe 2°93 ge ee 

coo de oe 72 ve oe ae 0:18 0:88 ee 0:46 ee 0:40 0:26 0:88 1°88 ee 
at we 

Lauchmanpur sa ae oe oe 0 32 ee se 0:98 ee 0:47 0:58 0°35 te 1:30 33 ee 


District Total .. 
District Average . , 


Hooghly. 
নিপা wy 0:16 | 0°71 
Hooghly Re »» 10601028] .. 7 me +» | 1°22 10-11 | 0-56] .. 

1 ٌَ ہن‎ হজ হিল 2:80 | 0-01 0:42 
Tentulis ১০101781020 10:19 | ., | cc | 22111711108 10:86 10:42 | [2 10:69 .. | 0-85 | 0:11 
Boinchee --» | 0 06 1 0:41. | 60:20 4৫ ‘i ka 0:33 7 0:70 i 0°42 ae 1:10 ai 
Khanaku) ait a4 ze 0:42 es as me 23 ae 0:35 | 0-10 1°40 1°15 +s 7 
Tarakoswar 2 টি 3 0 nes : ae ae 1:00 নল 0:45 5 1-60 7 - 0-10 
District Tota) =, 
District Average ,, 

Howrah. 
Howrah ae 
Uluberia টি 
Amta nee 
District Tota) ১, 7 
District Average .. 


(@) Data not available, 


Caloutta, the Ist August 1955 


? ny ٦ 5 ’ 
SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 395 
6 
R THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1985. 

28 29 81 82 33 $4 37 8s 39 
Number} Normal Normal] | Heaviest Total Normal 

of number | rainfall { rainfall | rainfall {| rainfall rainfall 

টি সু Tal 02۲ for i for me ا‎ 0 from lat for this 

ays. . | month, | 85 6 3118۹ to od. 

27th | 2861 806) ۱ 6 রর month. [30th June 20 

0-60 | 08 oe 18 11°6 8-05 9 73 

ps 0:10 | 0-03 es 0°45 | 0-61 8 1 24 3 04 10-6 
2 a 72 0:40 : 7 9 11-6 5-70 9:87 
0:45 | 0°16 | 0-38 | 0-12 1 1-12 } 0:84 ا1‎ 1112 6-60) 0-51 
10-0 001 

ا 81 ار 5 0°55 
BY 1:00 ۵ 19 60 (006‏ 20 

52 01°0 33:90 79° 6 

8:67} 11:4 5-05 9°94 

۶ য় 

9-68 4-62 114 8 موم | 0-15 | 19-)%| 0-07 | 0-28 
808 10-8 

18 10:46 

ا 6.7 1092 8 7 0:68 0:86 

107 "01 

7-44 61 04 10 05 2۰297 7 ا0 
71:36 16:02 88:7 26 

8:67 | 111 684 8-92 

0:20 | 0 1:96 2 12 11 68 108 

11°7 10°10 

0:16 1 0°34 0-00 10 116 6:09 10°00 
0°60 | 0-87 oe 90 [11 80 00 

: 0:30 ie P 8 10-8 65 . 3:65 9°71 

ae 1-60 0°15 : 8 106 -00 ' 4°60 8°37 

9-87 5:00 * 00“ 111 5 7- کہ 8 0:20 

او ۰ 116 

111 9 58 

0°25 | 0°85 75 13 09 0۵ 0: 8۰ "8 1001 
0:11] 7 0:18 11 10:6 6-73 9:16 1: 6:73 9:16 
0-20 | 010 086 9 1-0 6 45 8°95 1: 5:45 8-05 

7 1°25 an 8 9.4 7°00 7°46 1- 7:00 7°45 

0°16 eae টার এ 12 11°93 7:25 "8 1: 7°25 9°38 

ne 0°52 1-00 : 4 9.8 3-46 7:28 1: 3-44 7:28 

0:15 | 0-16 0:40 & 8 19:0 8-16 | 3:64 8:16 

a 0-37 7 ‘ 8 9.8 0ھ‎ 1. 4:86 ৪:79 

0°48 05 7 7 1092 7°57 1: 2°62 7:57 

101 7°57 7°67 

0:37 | 5 ۰ 9 "8 7°74 0ً 1 7°74 

8-5 6:08 6:08 

8° 8°67 8:57 

-۰ 1:40 7 oe 7 4 in} 5 8-66 ) 

0-28 : 00 1 1:10 ae 9 (n ۴ 1:10 4°18 n) 
إ ہے‎ ১ (৩১ سب ا‎ ১ Famer سنہ‎ ০ یم سے چهھه مہ ممے۔ گآ‎ ০০ aes eee fee ee  ےیسممسہ‎ উঠান 
154 228-3 90°14 19366 

- 856) 10-4 5:01 8-80 

0:28 | 0:08 | 1:24 | 0:27 17 1-10 12-59 10°20 

11-4 10°98 

0-81 | 06 9 124 5:26 10°21 
11:38 9:76 

1:00 | 3°81 ue ۰: 14 18 11-91 11°88 

12-3 10°72 

11-8 9°84 

10 6 10-06 

ড 0°15 @e as 6 115 7.0) 11:21 

0:72 ‘a و‎ 8 128 60 11°81 

0-80 0 2 19 1211 340 1°62 

108 9-38 

11:8 9 27 

11-4 10 72 

10:98 7°62 1[ 8 و وا 1-00 «a‏ 

11°38 9-54 

0:04 0:32 ee oe 10 12°0 4°60 11:10 

oe oe ee oe 6 11:3 1°88 10 64 

12°3 11-85 

0:55 | 1-16 | 1-20 | 0:05 ae 14 11-8 10:06 9-00 

11:6 9:76 

1:28 | 1:70 0-27 7 10 11:2 10:05 9:77 

11:1 8°85 

114 10°48 

0:25 | 1-40 4 rae 7 af 5°88 n 

i 0:29 ۰٠ 10 ft 61 ۴, 

n নু 

0:46 | 0-08 ٦ ae 11 ৬ 6-27 )سأ‎ 

142 2755 97 97 2006 

104 16 7: 10°4@ 

12.4 9°01 

se 0-46 12 129 6°23 9:77 

ae hel 3118: 

* | 0:10 নি 0:15 0°51 ৫ 11 10°5 ۰ ۰ 
sine giv 0-11 |} 0:20 7 ba ae ws 14 12°0 8-61 8-98 
-7 0:14 1 0:74 : 7 es 12 12:3 107 ৪ 1 
7 0:60 | 0°55 ۵6 : 18 12-8 6°31 11:35 
0:10 | 0-18 | 4 : ae 12 12-9 7°86 -00 
74 97-1 46°42 79-04 

12°33 |} 12:1 7:77 "8 

৪ 11:14 

13.6 11-08 

128 12-08 

246 85:14 

12°9 11:71 


(a) Not ascertained. 


: 5. MOOKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


396 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 56, 1956 


وت س3 
DAILY RAINFALL RECORDED IN WEST BENGAL‏ 


District and 


ath | oth | 108৮ | £10 | لاف‎ 


17th | 18th | 19th 


24-Pargun 8 


Sagar Island (01955 )]| 0 07 
Diamond Harbour 
Budge Budge 
Alipore (Obey ) 
Barrackpor 

Dum Dum (Obsy ) 
Baaasat 

Basirhat 

Qosaba 


নদ 0 
andheads (0085 ) | 1 904 1] 012 | 030] 0 25] 0 05] 0 83 


District total 
District average 


So‏ سر یىی جح عر سرن 

عج تہ ہن یىی ৩১০০১‏ 

نہ ہت گج یہ چوت ‏ 
৮৩‏ 

aw‏ دی ے ین 

sssoe 


enos onsoo~o 


55 ৮5 শত জি کی‎ 
Soar ০5 


এ 0258 


Ranaghat 
Krishnagar (Obsy ) 
Haringhata(a) 


District total 
Dwtrict average 


0 65 | 0 55 | 6 ০ 90 0 14 | 0 90 02810 70) 0 8 
0 01] 0 11 ‘ 0 49 | 1 9] | 0 39] 0 41 ۰ ۰ 2 4 এ 0 08} 06291 918 | 096 | 008 


04087802094 


Kandi(a) 
Berhampore (Obsy )1 0 20 | 0 10 : ; 1 566] 2 26} 0 11 | 0 09 0 60} 1 87 
Lalbagh(a) 
Azimgan)(a) 
Jangtpur 
Patkabarl 
hallyangan 
(Ishanpur) (a) 
Khargram 
Isharat parte) 
Sagardighi(a) 


District total 
District average 


٠ * | 2 50 


‘ 99০91 0 80] 0 10] 0 50 - 1100 


eed [ beeen beeen ial‏ | سعصے‌مفجووجوت ৮০০০০ ০০ ১০১ em) re)‏ ۔7لمھًهہ۔ سھسے لا a‏ سم ہے "ا eee fr eee‏ ےم 


Weat 12017701281 


Gangarampur 0 20] 0 27] 110] 0 50] 0 20] 0 60 
Itahar(a) 
Ralgan) 
Bajurghat(a) 


8৪৮৫৮ total 
jutrict average 


1 06 0 43 
“১ | 0 66 | 0 70 


Jalpawurr 


Jalpaiguri (Obsy ) 
Allpurduar(a) 


30710 68 | 2 526 | £ 77 | 0 89 | 007 | .. 8 61 | 1 82 | 1 66 | 0 76 | 0 45 | 2 03 | 3 17 0 87 | 091 1008 


Falakata(a) 

Buxa 179] 0 80] 8 65/0386] 103] 221 6 61 | 8 53} 200] 8 50/1 11 175] 0 80] v 45 
Kalchini 0 98 | 22311 601 1 90] 015] 009 | 0 48 J12 70) 3 63 | 0 80} 6101 O 47 0 68 | 1 671 0 58 
humargram(a) 

District total 8 


District ۲۶٤ 


Darjeeling 
Sitiguri(a) ٠ 
Darjeeling (Obsy ) 74108071 20171 5811 3867 0 8৪ 0 14 ক 21610867110 40 1 7010 88 1 37 
Kalimpong (000৭5 ) 38 1010 1 0151 0 70 1 0041 70 » | 4 407 0 60 1 00 | 1 401 0 30 
Mongpoo 2651023 10 86] 1 4512 21 11 70 010100915 74135 48] 0 00 20810 801 0 04 
15970 ۰ 76 11201 2 48] 1501 2 0 90925511198 1 8 lu] 1 051 0 20 $10} 0 60] 1 15 
edong(a 
Bagoogra (Obsy.) 566 | 0 07 1 0 30] 2 31 | 20340 56 0 86] 6 86] 0 69 | 1 32 0 7110 75] 0 22 
District total 
District average 
Malda 
Malda (Obpy ) 1 31 088 | 1 80] 0 03 | 0 04 0 08 | 0 28 122] 061 | 02010 81 
Chanchal(a) 
08201 1411 1 07 ‘ 187 | 0 74 1 60 | 0 07 
District total 
District average . 
Cooch Behar 
Sadar (Obay.) 260/14 89 1 1 58 | 0 661 0 09 . 10101 70 03 | 0 00 98? 
Dinheta 007 {1 61 | 3 68] 1 21] 0 15 140] 1 62 00711 76510 20 
Mathabhanga 08216 4116 02/1 61 1 09 01610 380] 4 8210 80 | 2 08 0 24102910 16 
Me kliganj 018] 65 22] 200] 2 20 1 1 20] 0 20] 0 20] 0 6 300] 1 20} 2 20 02014 6810 16 
Tufangan) 0 6413 60/8 11 3 68 | 1 70 2 00 


بس _۔ _۔ ےج ا سے ہما তি‏ یہ سس ae‏ سمجم | আহা শা শিস ০০০০১ ১ ae‏ 


District total 
Distrirt average 


(4) Data not available, 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1966 397 


FOR THB MONTH OF JULY 1955, 


$4 36 36 37 38 39 


Number} Normal | Total | Normal [Heaviest] Tota) Normal 
٤ number | ralnfall } rainfall | rainfall rainfall rainfall 


স্পা পিসী 011811)5 ۱ for the | for the | during | from ist } for this‏ سسصصحہ 
e days. |] month. | months.| ۱۵ June to | period,‏ : 
20th | 21st 28th] 28671 804) month. | 9156 July.‏ 


৯ পা পলক 


1 87 | 0:98 2 نے‎ | 0-07 Bi 16°5 1182 2-95 24°90 27-07 
0:11 | 0-23 0:81 0327 0 55 171 12°71 2-40 277 2009 
0:10 0-18 0:18 0:13 ۵۱1 7 17°4 10°18 2°64 17°50 27-62 
0°25 1 0°21 0-15 0 01 | 0:09 ۰1 0 8°66 2-00 17°03 24-50 
9:80 | 0-80 4°10 a 50 14 17°26 4°10 2696 | ے‎ 24-77 
O21 1 1 0:68 0:1৮ | 0°10 47 16 4 12°67 2°87 22:68 24 45 
.» 70-80 3-65 7 و‎ 18 861 36 16°66 21-54 
1:02 0:78 1°52 | 6-00 04 18°7 20:58 6:00 24-61 24 04 
0-607 .. 0:67 ৭ 11°18 -28 16:2 691 2°18 1898 21 
নি my 7 سن ا‎ 19 7:55 2-10 16°06 22 
0-17 08 এ 0:04 | 0-08 : 12°7 7:18 1:04 13-48 82 
18-14 | 126-48 292: %5 286 !یا‎ 

1:65 1 11°41 20 2) 24°27 

. 1[o eat .. “3 7 ১1 0182 15:1 8-16 0:90 14:88 20:29 

0:07 | 0:86 1 0121. * 0-86 | 0-04 13 10 24 28 218 
12°8 5:06 

44. 2 22:06 40:06 66:92 

14:73 | ۶٤ 20:03 18:97 

15:6 21-47 

0:13 | ۰ 0:40 | 0-06 | 3-00 | ৪. 2°35 1 0:89 | 0-22 16:1 2228 3-00 28-08 204 

0 001 

0-15 | 2 7 1 15 21-18 8:45 81 21-41 
0:09 ۲ 0:19 | 0-141 ., 18°5 15°54 8:21 24 18-68 
15°8 19°74 

1:00 | 0:20 6-00] 5:50} 4-00] .. 15-2 35°50 711) 41°20 19:10 

14:1 18°84 

(n) (%) 

135°7 | 94-46 126-88 | 181-89 ? 

1611 21 31°46 20°21 


0-27 | 0-70 | ۹4 8:28 | 8:20 | 0-50 | 0-22 | 0-18 | 0:85 a 18-28 3-28 24 63 ان‎ 
‘ 1-00 «» | 0°65 1,4 19°85 3-70 22-58 2-7 |: 
11 25°77 
61-8 38-13 47°21 10287 
155 19-07 21 25-72 
0-21 | 1°88 | 0-79 | 2°70 | 9:08 || ۵0٥9 1:23 | 0:16 | 4:44 | 4-68 22:3 86°25 7:67 88:70 58-16 
19°5 009 
14 7 
7 ل0( 0آ‎ | 6:40 | 4:32 | 6-31 1-08 | 6°53 | 0:32 | 4-65 24:6 88°47 6:61 182-63 91°35 
0:16 | 6-18 | 0-26 | 4°42 | 7-86 | 3-04 114 11:84 | 4-49 1 0 26 22°8 70°63 12°79 124:07 87:30 
20-0 78-03 
128۰0 | 22435 | 4 345 45 414° 52 
214 74:78 115 69-09 
92:4 61°35 
0:04 | 0-22 1:37 | 1 25-6 20°71 2-90 54-06 57-10 
1১80 | 0-4 2-00 | 1-00 21:9 36:07 4:40 6710 37-31 
2:23 | 0-60 1:42 | ۰92 281 34°28 5 74 61:12 8721 
1-40 | 1-80 0:40 | 1°10 1 0 a 57°79 11-22 80-49 24-87 
1:38 | 8٤ 0:83 | 0:54 | 2-30 | 0-63 (%) | 41°98 7-00 67:77 (n) 

০০০০ মা 9১১ | RE ei ০০০০১১১০০০০ সে ۶" ca — سمے‎ 
146:7 | 108-83, 320° 54 $30: 55 
24-5 30°77 64-11 55-09 

س۳" 

. 8ص۵‎ 0:84 | 6 : 14:8 1811 1٠9 226 2 0 
108 20 
0۰07 | 0:82 A 15:3 18-65 3-95 24°04 23-27 
4.9 8 47-00 "0-77 
1688 28-50 23 &0 
: 805 50:04 8 8b (n 
او یو ہس ]تہ‎ (n) |09 ? 83 | 52-09 ۳ 
نا‎ 5118 S| a اپاپ‎ 1 8 
7۲ ‘GO | 9:18 n 6h ۰9 n) 
+ | 021 | 2 7 0 (n) | 42-67 12-05 | رو بب‎ 

1 268-07 | 20-۰5 11 ۲ لمسب 
গা‏ 00-54 61-79 | 820:0 


(7) Not ۵۰ھ‎ 


398 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1966 


সা ——————SSSS 


DAILY RAINFALL RECORDED IN WEST BENGAL 


1 2 3 4 5 6 ? 8 9 10 11 12 18 14 15 16 11 17 18 19 20 


District and 


e 
186 | 2nd | 3rd 4th | 5th | 6th | 7th | 8th 1 Oth | 10th | 1185 | 12th | 18th | 14th | 16th | 16th [17th | 18th 1 19th 


(০ ১ fp agen IE রানার‏ ۔ججممہوججسممجے enero || Coens 9 ecco enrameesss fl‏ ا eee || eee‏ | سوک ieee‏ ہے | چجہپ جع ا حسرودووکی ہے تو 


Burdwan 


Kalna 0 25 
1 (Obsy ) 0 12 


Katwa 

Asansol (Obsy ) 0 11 0 22 
Mankai 0 08 0 O1 
Mangolka 1 20 
Shyamaundar(a) 

Monteswar 0 10 0 50 


District total 
[01808 averag: 


Birbhum 


Suri(a) 

Hetampur(a) ‘ e 
Rampurhat ; 012} 1 08 |] 0 0 85 
Bolpore 0 30 0 60 | 1 40 
Murarai(a) 

Labpur ee nee ‘ ۰ 2 25 7 
Nalhati(a) 

Mayureswar(a) 


District total : 
District average 


Banlura 


Bankura (Obsy ) বি 1 38 1 0 23 
Vishnupur(a) sg 

Khatra 0 40 4 
Indas av ٦ 0 70 0 35 
Kotalpur : 


Onda 

Gangajalghati é 1 84 
Ralpur(a) ‘ 1 

Sonamukhi@) . 

Taldangra 


: 1 09 
Beton রস 0 48 


0 61 149 | 2 15 
60 


ن ہن ن ن ّح سم 
چہ چود তি‏ سر ى ی 
Onm Sno‏ 

= 

شس 

S 


26 0 10] 0 28] 0 95 015) 0 15] 1 70 
10 108} 1 50] 0 40 
3 


0 181 | 1 42 0 75 


080] 0 70] 1 247 0 16 . | 0 22 ۰ 
0)2 7 


حیلم سر اسم مم یج ২১‏ 
৪‏ 5555 


و 
یت 
i)‏ 
tw‏ 
i=)‏ 

e 
Qo 
ও 
সে 
৩১ 
[>] 
nw 
= 
= 

° 


04 9 OF * ٠ 


1 

0 

0 2 

Simlupal 0 30] 0 85] 1 64] 0 
2 

0 


Palasdanga : er 
*(hatna ۰ 

Ranibandh 0 08 
Saltora(a) 


Jaypur oe 

4 pikanagar(a) 

পপ rl 1 60 | 1 86 | 016 0 ৪0 | 0 12 44010 40 1 26 
a er و‎ a ৬ ৬ ee ۰ 

Deull Zn 0 65 | 6 reel. 1 10 | 1 40 0 80 1 21 140] 0 00 


District total Pi 
107111 average 


Midnapore 
Contal (Obsy ) 0 17 0 14 দর. 916 | 019 


0 
Tamluk ۰ 006 | 1 9? 0 15 0 15 ۰ 2 

Midnapore (0053 ) 2 (1 1 24 ॥ 9 26 7 18 11 481 026 | 019 
1 


CSC সচল শাক PHOS 
وہہ‎ স্ব 
৪53 دہ‎ 
oS 
ات‎ 
نت‎ 
ہی‎ 
a 
SO 
—_— 
ts 
۰ 
শি 
a 
ts 
So 
৯ 
Oo 
= 
So 
نت‎ 
جب‎ 
উট 
لت‎ 


صن 
on‏ 


Ghata 
Kukrahati 


Danton(a) ٠ 
Chandrakona(a) 


۱ 1 00 
: 0 13 
‘ ۰ 100 | 9 70 
; 2 80 


2 00 0 45 1 27 . | 1 62 
76 1 : ۱ 110 : . | 0 88 
40 | 1 50 1 22 : : ; . | 0 50 150] . 077 


= 

: 

ad 

= 

5 
سے‎ তি আপ 
55৯ 


Kesiary 
Gopiballavpur(a) 
81148 (Belpabari)(a) 
Narayangarh(a) 
2222 
ohanpur(a ‘ 
Wonaigeain 0 ৪8 | 0 22 01 22 061 | 01 | 0 28 | 09781 .. 
Moyna , 0161 02010251094 1105 | 02010111100] 14 : 068 | 0 45 | 5 
Narajolc(a) =. 
Kolaghat (Dainan) ‘ » 2 7AT .. | 0 05 : 0 05 01510 55 O16} .ہس‎ 
Balic ak (a) 
Jharg am é ne 1 28 100] 0 50] O 4? ৬ 1 24 
Khargpur .. | OO 0 221096] 1811/0001] 1 45 0 92 280/210]1 65/0 16 0 47 
Amlagora(e 
Tenria xs 0 08 2 08 0 60} 0 12 a 229811 08]0 11 1 1 03 
Etamogre(s) ٠ . 
adghat(a 
Lachmanpur 0 3) ] 1 66] 2 96 0 46 0 191] 1 03 0 51 1.0 01 | O 18 | 0 14 0 29 


District total মি 


District averag 
Hooghly ¢ 


8 re(a 
Hoogtly রঃ 0 10 0 04 01010 34 
Arambagh order 


nditala -٦۰ ٠ 0950 1 998 11 34/0107 1 65 | 0 02 208 1016 106 1078 1 1 86 
18110 র 076 | ৪76 | 0 50 | 0 46 | 0 28 و‎ 58 0 40 0 71 0 87 | 0 85 | 0 4 
Rolnehee 0 78 | 1 30] 0 46 0 78 1 48 ۱ 04৯ ] 15] 0 13 
Khanakul 0 06 015] 009] 1 60] 0 12] 2 40 2 00 070} 097 [011 | 0 12] 0 40 
Tarakeswar ? 0৭8 | 011 ] 0 45 | 0 80] 0 23) 0 40 0 46 1 46 | 0 35 0 27 | 0 85 


Nistrict total 


District average 
Howrah, 


Howrah(“) 
Uluberia(a) 
Amta<a) 


}lstrict total 
pistrict average 


গু 2 e 
=> 
a 
on 
gee 
جح‎ 
ات‎ 
= 
پت‎ 
ہس‎ 
زس‎ 

2 = 

5ا چ 
১‏ 

Qo 
8ح‎ 
زس‎ 
وب‎ 
a 
سر‎ 
مع‎ 
اح‎ 
ی‫‎ 
Ge 
Se 
wD 
i=} 


Sinn) [|| eee Ce ا‎ ৭০ متسو‎ 


(a) Data not available. 


Calcutta, the 7th September 1955 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1958 


সে‏ شسششسجچشٹٹگشح شس شش سس سس سس سس شس حےح‪يػؾےسشسے->6ےنےہ.ۓّ‫ٔ ‌ٗسی ت ٭ٹ‌ .ہہ مبت۔۔سسنبہہعمعمعم-تسم_ےِ_ 


FoR THE MONTH OF JULY 1955. 


21 28 24 26 26 27 28 29 80 81 32 33 34 
Number | Normal 
of 067 
ہت‎ টা fencer سچجے پہوے ہد جح سس مس سحسسد‎ fm} Fainy | of rainy 
days. days. 
7 22nd | 2018 1246) 1266 | 24th | 27th | 28th | 290 1908) | 81st 
টি 5908 ভি ووجرت ہے‎ aon J ১ | سجھ‎ ope a ০০ eens | See 
0:6৪ ; 0:20 | 001 | 0:60 | 1:12 | 0-63 ۱ 0-00 1 0-30 18 [7 
0۰۱5 | 002 | 1۰10| 1:70 | 0:88 | 0-25 | 0:15 7 19 10 
1:00 1°80 | 0°20 ne 1. 0:70 | 1°80 7 1°20 না 16 14.9 
1:25 : 0:82 ৮ 0:75 1 1°73 | 1:62] 0°34 ٠ 307.7 
0:10 0:00 | 1:01 | 0۰68 | 1:21 | 0-02 és 0 41 | 0°06 0:08 17 14°4 
0:46 * ০ ne 0۰56 | 1:00 | 0-80 | 0°40 -۰ নী 16 ا‎ 
1:80 oe 7 ۱ 1:01 | 1150 | 1°51 | 01960 | 1:00 1 16 | 14°3 
_—— سکس ج‎ | পপ [| ক মি (৩ ০ ০ 1০৯ emma 
118 1178 
۰ 1067 
101 9 
٠ 131 
0:19 10 vs 1°66 1 2°88 | 2°25 ] 1°31 | 1-06 oe es 20} 158 
ee ee ee es 0:30 1:27 0°90 0-20 0 10 و‎ ee 18 at 
ee ee ee 0-02 | 1-47 1:46 § 1:06 7 ৪ 0°75 te 11 Le 
11-0 
মি Ce ১০ ০ fl ٭ڈسسممھے‎ aos. | ee 
4t 116°2 
14:67 14°4 
0:30 és 0:08 | 0:08 0:75 | 0°00 | 0°28 | 0-05 an রর 13 نی‎ 
0:00 a) oe ar 0:26 | 0-80 | 1:20 1 2 07 7 0:25 ee 19 16-1 
oe mi ee 0:62 | 2:05 | 0:90 | 0:80 “a - ۰ 16 15°} 
- (0:80 os ne 0:64.) 0-80 | 0-80 1 0-60 | 0°03 7 : 11 14°2 
১১:10:15] :: | 0-00] 1-04 | 0-16] 0-21] .. | 0-60 | 0-28 16 | 14-8 
٠ ea on 1:90 1°15 8, 00 0 ee ea 11 15 
]اث‎ ٠٦ 16-1 
15:0 
1°16 on ae ee 1:60 1:16 e 0:50 0-55 0:20 0:34 15 16°6 
0-40 mop Pl dow do. | 6:90 11144167181 2102, 14] 14:8 
1:92 0:17 | :; | il | tt | aids} 0-08} o-20fo027] 2. |. £6 | 15-2 
at oe as eo 0:60 0:15 0 20 ae 0-50 ‘10 il 14:9 
an ৪ এ 0:10 oe 1:10 1:80 1:10 0°05 oe ea ae 17 Hi 
es ee ee ee 0-08 0:76 0:48 0:28 ee ve 0:74 12 14°8 
0:10 a ee as 1°80 0°37 1°80 0:20 ae e ee 18 17°2 
1:28 ১ | 2, | 2] 2511 0:84 Se eee ۵٤6 1:60 14 | 16-8 
. | .. | 0-80] 2-20] 1:10 | 1:15 | 0-75] .. 10:44 | .. 16 | 16-7 
15-9 
ee ٦ ٠ ٠ 20 00 0-05 ee ٠ oe 18 (x) 
0:85 Poul 1 21104161801 .. |0 13] (9 
পা لا‎ TSS I se ০০০ ১ | Sree | eevee 
240 344-8 
14°12 | 7 
7 ٠ 0 ea ae ee ee 0°27 ae 2:08 0:18 0 07 16 11 
رھ‎ se ee be ee 0-06 0-09 @s 0:02 oe ec 12 14-4 
1:47 0:34 و‎ মি 0:03 we 1:28 1 0:29 ay . fa 16 | 16-8 
Ke 1 25 | 0-60 | 0-26 is 2-96 os 7 مد‎ ies 11 16 0 
0:34 és ae ee 0:28 | 0:44 | 0-07 | 0182 | 0°45 | 028 | 1 17 و‎ 
14:1 
وو اہ‎ 
۰81 oe es ee ee 1:86 ee 0:10 ae 2 : 
1: 0-08 ain ks as 1:82 | 0:62 | 0:60 aa oe il 16:4 
0:96 0:58 ae 0:92 oe 0-72 | 0-52 | 0:00 5 16 ৫ 
16-0 
14:4 
14:0 
7 19 | 18-7 
3 oe ‘02 ae oe 0:01 oe 0-05 ea pe 0:75 ۹ 
is ote fPaad بی 01212 :اب‎ 80| aa گا‎ 
0-24 0:08 0:85 ° ee 1°80 0:10 oe 10 i 
0-18 7 .. 0:26 | .. 15580 ] ق131‎ | 0-70] 9:20 | .. 195 | 168 
Lae 0-08 ৪৭ 0:35 ° 0-87 0:26 oe 0-02 ov ۰ 15 int 
1:18 eo ae ee 4 1-09 1:30 1°58 es ee s 11 ۳8 
٣ 
0:48 | O21 | 4 7 0:28 wa 1:04 | 0-26 ee 7 7 টা 17 n 
০ | epee | ee | ee | eres | مموفسموجک:‎ 751 না جو‎ 966-1 
18-40 15-2 
19| 164 
“16 7 ae ae 0:22 1:27 ee ee 0:10 ee ee র্‌ 
pie Ont | of 77 চি 7 دو‎ 
ہیں‎ re سو 90 00و میں‎ ee 17| 155 
0-05 ۰ 8 0:40 | 0 80 | 1°58 | 048 | 0-10 | 0-15 | 009 252 ol 255 
9.8 | 1.0 | 0182 | .. | 0.80 | .. | 1:40 | 0:06 | 0:19 | 008 | .. | 0-06 ig) a 
06 00 1:00 on 0:22 0:60 1:80 0-60 es eo ee ve 
100 124:3 
16-67 16°5 
16. 
17°4 
15:8 
eens | 5601 
167 


(a) Not ascertained. 


35 


Total 
rainfall] 
for the 


9 month. 


94°19 
13:46 


21:47 
9:10 


18-80 


36 37 


Normal | Heaviost 
rainfall } rainfall 
for the | during 
the 

month. 


جوسسکجکسیے جوہے حیت- آ 0 টি‏ 


44-37 
14°79 


212-82 
1282 


11-34 


167: 41 
11°16 


92°67 


90:85 
1130 


ইত ও হটে লে ی‎ 
55555 


7 
چہ چہ مم 
on‏ کت 


দিই 
ےک‎ 
শু 


268-08 
12-28 


one 
55558 8 


S. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


38 $9 
Total Norinal 
ralnfall ralpfall 
لا‎ Soe for pit 
une Lo riod. 
3196 July. 2 
নিচেও 
20°37 21 07 
19°36 2332 
28-40 21°09 
17°72 23°30 
৪ 20 12 
16-86 208 
2010 
19:08 21:05 
116-04 170-85 
19°44 21°87 
28-08 
22:06 
25 99 21-17 
i 20°34 
23:80 
19-60 20°11 
181 
1765 
যা eel 
45-58 171 
22:70 20 21 
16:62 23°81 
22°30 
16-81 22:41 
17°35 20 96 
12°76 22°61 
20 74 18°84 
20:25 224 
6 
207 23:92 
19°67 22°36 
17°49 20°13 
14:63 16-68 
22 20 23°23 
20°31 
18:07 19-29 
15:26 20-97 
13-908 و‎ 
9:28 
16-81 19°04 
16:66 
21:86 
208 my) 
17:97 n) 
290-50 459-A7 
17°62 20°00 
27:89 24:10 
24: 
17:20 22°08 
21-88 
24-08 26-56 
28°21 
21-39 
23-73 
17:01 25°14 
16:70 24-06 
16-83 24:02 
23°04 
21:50 
23-00 
23-29 
21:78 
8-38 24 22 
9:73 28-32 
20 
16:45 21-20 
26:45 
20:79 24 39 
21:60 
24:00 
19°35 : 
5 
n 
17-61 2 
211-02 §68-73 
17-60 22-66 
21°84 
16:91 21-23 
22-1) 
22 16 24:11 
23 41 18:55 
20 45 19-10 
19391 25-09 
18°57 19-58 
120 80 171-61 
20-18 21°45 
23-67 
25:52 
26:78 
74°97 
24°00 


400 


SUPPLEMENT TO 11117 CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 5, 1956 


DIRECTORATE OF ACRICULTURE, WEST 


BENGAL, 
Calcutta, the 19th March 1956. 


Second Forecast of Gram Crop of West Bengal for 
1955-56. 


f Note.—The estimates of area under and yield of 
Gram for last year have been taken from last 
year’s final forecast which was based on 
reports of sample survey and crop cutting 
experiments carried out by the State 
Statistical Bureau, West Bengal. The figures 
of this year as shown in the forecast are 
based on the reports furnished by the exten- 
sion staff of this Directorate. ] 


Season.—The weather conditions have in 
Hence been favourable, for the crop in all the 


a 


Area and yield.—325,100 acres are estimated to 
be under Gram Crop this year compared to 345,500 
acres and 438,300 acres reported respectively in 
the corresponding and in. the final forecast of last 
year. The total outturn of the crop for the State 
as a wholé is estimated at 100,900 tons this year 
compared te 99,800 tons and 152,300 tons report- 
ed respectively in the corresponding and in the 
final forecast of last year. The average yield 
rate per acre of the crop for the State as a whole 
is estimated at 8.45 maunds per acre compared to 
8.09 maunds and 9.46 maunds reported respectively 
in the corresponding and in the final forecast of 
last year. 


ও. N. MUKHERJEE, 


istricts except 24-Parganas, Nadia, Muidnapore 
and Malda. for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 
APPENDIX. 
Gecond Forecast of Gram Crop ef West Bengal for 1055-656, 
Estimated ares under Batimatod outturn Date by which the 
Gram Crop. per acre, sowlng of the 
District. سے 6۔۱‎ eT generally commenced Remarks. 
Average of Laat year y this year and whether 
coding (final Thia year, (final This year, that date was early, 
ve years. __ forecast). orecast), normal or date. 
(4vres.) (Acrea.) (Acrus,) (Maunds.) (Mounds.) 

٠ -Pargal aie ٠ 86, 11°46 10°00 Middle of November, The weather cenditions have not been 

০০9 রি রি রি normal. 0015 for the cultivation and 
growth of the crop. 

9. Nadia .. ee 135,300 150,000 74,800 10°78 7°00 November, normal . The weather conditions have not beon 
favourable. Diversion of hand to 
other crop has been reported, 

$. Murshidabad টি 141,800 114,800 120,200 8°77 9-00 Ditto ee The weather conditions have been 
favuurable for the cultivation and 
growth of tho crop. 

4. Burdwan sa 23,800 27,700 26,400 8°25 8۰ 20 Ditto We Ditto, 

৪ Birbhum os $0,600 82,000 12,660 8°95 11:90 Ditto «e Tho weather conditions have becn 
gencrally favourable. 

6. Bankura as 6,800 8,200 5,800 5°26 8°00 Ditto »» Tho weather conditions have beon 

7 favourable, 

2 Minda e F 8,600 8,200 ৪801 7۰90 Middle of November, The weather conditiona have not 

: টার্ন রে ram normal, gonerally beon favourable. Diversion 
of land to paddy crops has ۵٥۷ 
reported. 

, 1 we ۵ 9,200 8,000 0°48 0°00 October-Novembor, nor- The weather conditions have been falr 

০250 তি mal. or the oultivation and growth of 
the crop, 

9. Howrah we 800 1,100 1,000 7°44 7°00 Ditto 7 Ditto. 

10. Jalpaigur! : 200 100 200 8°00 4:00 November, normal .. The weather conditions have been 
gonerally favourable. 

15, Darjecling ee ee ees ee ee ৬৬ eo 2 eevee 

as - & F 00 8°14 7°00 Novmber, normal . The weather conditions haye not boen 

me ; favourable for the cultivation and‏ 0 وت شور بت 

of the orop. Attack by‏ اد 
n ot peat has been reported.‏ 

13. West Dinajpur .. 10,000 11,400 4,400 4°07 6°00 Ditto vy Tes 

14. Cooch Behar on 800 100 100 8:90 8-00 Ditto The weather conditions have been 
favourable. 

Tota West Bengal .. 427,700 488,300 $25,100 0°46 8°45 


a 2 Ee AT a SS a ES TI 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at Weat Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the SthJuy 10655. 


pogtcred No. C207 No. 332(1) 


Galrittta 


Extraordina 
Published by Authoritv 


THURSDAY, JULY 5, ۶6 


— 
৬ EE অল এ: জজ تجےیوے ہے‎ a a Eg IT I RE ہی۔۔‎ রজত জল 


BrT I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
اثہہ۱/ا‎ the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Reforms 


ORDER 


No. 11796. Ref.—4th July 1956.—In_ exercise 
of the power conferred by sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 2 of the West Bengal Kgargadars Ordinance, 
1956 (West Bengal Ordinguce Nof 111 of 1956), 
the Governor is pleased heteby to mnke the 
following provisign for the removal of difficulties 
that may arise in cafrving out the provisions of 
the suid Ordinance, namely :— 


The iollowing amendments shall be made in 
the Wert Bengal Bargadars Rules, 1950, pub- 
lished with notification No. 3650L.Ref., dated the 
4th April 1950, «as subsequently amended, 
namely :— 


Amendments 
In the said rulea— 
(}) for sub-rule (2) of rule 9, substitute the 
following sub-rule :— 


"(2) An application for copies of an award 
or order made by the Board on 0 
betore the 31:1 day of March 1956. shalt 
be made on plain paper to the ‘officer or 
authority appointed under = sub-se- 
tion (1) of section 18 of the ». West 


1603 


1604 THLE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTHAORDLINARY, ' Parr | 
JULY 5, 1056. 


Bengal Land Retorms Act, 1955 (West 
Bengal Act X of 1956). Such officer 
er authority shal) thereupon furnish 
copies of the * award ‘or. order 
authenticated by him to the applicant 
free of charge.’’; 


(2) for sub-rule (1) 
following su 


rule 12, substitute the 
e: 


eres 


401) On the Gling of an appeal the Appellate 
Officer“shall call for the records of the 
case from the officer or authority 
appointed under sub-section (1) 00 see- 
tion 18 of the West Bengal ۹ء1‎ 
Reforms Act, 1965 (West Bengal 
Act X of 1956), ‘and after giving the 
appellant and the opposite party an 
opportunity of being heard aaa | dis- 
pose of the appeal summarily’’; and 


(3) for rule 13° the following rule shall be 
substituted :— 


“13. Manner of ereoution of an award or 
order.—Any party may apply to the 
oficer or authority uppointed under 
sub-section (1) of section; 18 of the 
West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1955 
(Wert Bengal Act X of 1956), or the 
Appellate Officer for the eecution of 
the awhrd or order made by\the Board 
or the Afpellate Officer, a&§ the case 
may be. Such officer or authority or 
the Appellate Officer shall thereupon 
forward such application forthwith to 
the Collettor, who shall, subject to the 
provisions of section 15, execute it in 
such manner as he thinks 8۰ 


By order of the Governor, 


۱ ۱ S. BANERJEE, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


sn cE RE A i AP রা কিলার 
Printed und published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Benxal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Press Alipore, on the Sth July 1986. 


Registered No. C207 


Calcutta 


No. 333(IVA} 


Extraordinary 
Pfiiblished by Authority 


THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1956 


PART IVA.-~Bills introduced in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly; Reports of Select Committees 
presented or to be presented to that Assembly; and Bills published before introduction in that 


Assembly. 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL. West Bengal Legislative Assembly Procedure Rules, 


Legislative Department. 


the publication of the following Bull, together with 
the Statement of Objects and Reasons which aecom+ 


NOTIFICATION - panies it, in the Calcutta Gazette, the Bill and the 
No. 1661%.—5th July, 1956.—The Governor Statement of Objects and Reasons are accordingly 
having been pleased to order, under rule 48 of the hereby published for general information :— 


Short 
title, 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 2 
of Ben, 
Act VI 
of 1941. 


THE RENCAL FINANCE (SALES TAX) (AMENDMENT) 


BILL, 1956. 


A 
BILL 


to amend the Bengal Finance (Sales Taz) Act, 1941. 


Wuereas it is expedient to amend the Bengal Finance Ben, Act 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941, for the purposes and in the manner na 
hereinaftar appearing ; & 


It is heréby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows: — 


1. This Act may be called the Bengal Finance (Sales 
Tax) (Amendment) Act, 1956. 


2. In section 2 of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 
1941 (hereinafter referred to as:the said Act),— 


(a) for sub-clause (i211) of clause (6), the following sub- 
clause shall be substituted, namely: 


‘(atz) the overhaul or repair of— 


(7) any motor vehicle, 
(2) any sea-going vessel, 
(3) any other vessel propelled by intertial combus- 
tion engine or by any other meehanical means, 
(4) any aircraft, 
(5) afly component of accessory part of any of the 
items mentioned in paragtaphs (J), (3), (3) or 
(4) above;’’; ۱ 
(6) in the proviso to clausg (7), after the word ‘‘register- 
ed’’ the words ‘‘or certified’’ shall be inserted. 


1606 


1606 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 5, 1956 (Part IVA 


The Bengal Finance (Sales Tar) (Amendment) Bill, 1956. 


(Clauses I—J.) 


Amend- 3. After sub-section (4) of section 11 of the said Act, the 
rae ,, following sub-section shall be inserted and be deemed to have 
" always been inserted, namely :— 


(44) Where any proceedings for the reCovery as an 
arrear of land revenue of any “tax or penalty 
remaining unpaid has been commenced under sub- 
section (4) and thé amount of tax or penalty is 
subsequently modified, enhanced or reduced in 
consequenée of any assessment made or order passed 
on appeal, revision or review under section 20, 
the Commissioner ntay in such manner and within 
such period as may be prescribed inform the 
dealer ‘and such authority by whom or under whose 
order the recovery is to be made as may be pre- 
scribed in this behalf and thereupon such proceed- 
ings may be continued as if the amount of tax or 
enalty as so modified, enhanced or reduced had 
een substituted for the tax or penalty which was 
to be recovered under sub-section (4).’’. 


Amend. 4. For clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 25 of the 


t of ie এ 
2020920৪810 Act, the following clause shall be substituted, namely :— 


of any of the particulars referred to in sub-‏ (م)*“ 
section (J‏ 


(৫) for the purpoaes of a prostcution under the Indian Act XLV 
Penal 0086 in respect of any such statement, of 1860. 
return, accounts, document or evidence; or for 
the purposes of a prosecution under this Act, 

(8) in any suit or proceeding in a civil court to which 
the State Government or any person appointed 
under this Act is a party and which দি to 
any matter arising out of any proceeding under 
this Act, : 


(207) to any officer of Government where it is necessary 
to make such disclpgure to him for the purposen 
of this Act; or’’. 


Amend- 5 In the Schedule to the said Act, the following item 
met of shall be omitted, namely :— 


Schedule. 


“16. Dhooties, lungies | When the sale price of a dhooti, lungs or 
and sarees saree does not exceed such amount 
as the State Government may fix 
in respect of dhooties, lungies or 
sarees, as the case may be, by notifi- 
cation in the Official Gazette : 


Provided that the State Government 
may fix different amounts for 
dhooties, lungies or sarees of different 
sizes.’’. 


Part IVA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 5, 1956 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS. 


The object of the Rill.is (1) to remove certain administrative difficulties 
and (2) tg stop certain loopholes tor evasion. 


The reasons are explained in’ the notes on clauses appearing below. 


Notes on Clauses. 


Clause 2. 


Sub-clause (a).—Extends the scope of the present definition of ‘‘contract’’ 
by including river-going vessel and aireraft so that the sale price of goods 
supplied in the execution of a cuntract to construct, overhaul or repdir them 
may be preacribed under section )ا)2‎ 


Sub-clause (b).-—It is a consequeytial amendment. 


Clause 3. 


Recently the High Court of Calcutta has decided in a case that under 
the law, as it is noy, if during the pendency of a certificate case arising out 
of sales tax demand, such demand is in any way modified by a sales” tax 
Appellate or ‘Revisiunal authority, the original certificate proceedings will 
become void and fresh [80018111010 will have to be filed in respect of such 
demand. This will not only make the future certificate procedure very much 
cumbrous but may make a large number of claims time-barred when the time 
for re-filing arises. This provision seeks to make it ‘clear that such fresh 
requigjtion will not be necessagy. 


Clausé 4. 


Information about sales tax assessment cases cannot now be disclosed for 
the purposes of a suit or proceeding in a 611] Court or to any officer of 
Government tar the purposes of this Act. In the absence of such informa- 
tion Law Officers of Government are handicapped in contesting applications 
under article 226 of the (Constitution and in conducting prosecutions. 
Similarly, assessing officers are handicapped for their inability to refer to 
papers of other dtalers for the purpose of crose-checking. The proposed 
amendment seeks to remove these two handicaps. 


Clause de 
The sales tax on textiles was beipg évaded through two loopholes : 


(1) the exemption from registration ‘of dealers importing less than 
Rs.10,000 a year, and 


(2) the exemption from taxation of dhooties, lungi€s and sarees below 
certain price limits. 


Most of the dealers avoided registration by dtranging large imports in 
small consignments in the name of © numper of fictitious or berami dealers. 
Those who were registered avoided taxation by showing fictitiously in their 
books that mest of the sales were of items below the price limits. To stop 
this malpractice it was necessary to withdraw both types of exemption. 
The Legislature has already withdrawn the first exemption by enacting the 
Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) (Secopd Amendment) Act, 1955. Withdrawal 
of the second exemption required assent of the President and the consent of 
the Government of India was not so long available. The consent hag since 
hecome available. This clause seeks 18 withdraw this exemption. 


B. C. ROY, 


Member-in-charge. 
۸۸ھ0۷۸‎ 


The 417 July, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
9. Kk. D. GUPTA, 


Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


১৩০ REE areas جج‎ eames eee eS ee —t نے‎ - 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West, Bengal, 


at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore. on the 5th July, 1956. 


1607 


Registered No. C207 


۲ 


٦ 
fs 
2 খা 


ক শাকির 
লা এ 
a 7 ৮ 
of ال‎ 7 
۳ - 
5 


No. 33411) 


waa 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, JULY 5, 1956 


ہے سس شش Se‏ 


rm, am ae Qe CRS مچی‎ সস سم‎ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 11870L.A.—5th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the State 
Government by notification No. 20/1/55Judl.(1), 
dated the 14th May 1965, issued by the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs 
under clause (1) of article 258 of the Constitution 
of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
Durgapur Steel Project, in the village of Andal, 
jurisdiction list No. 62, thana Ondal, pargana 
Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby notified 
that a piece of land in Block ‘‘M’’ comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 5028 to 6091, 5599 to 
5632, 5669 to 6679, 5681 to 5694, 5700, 
6702 to 5710, 5728 to 6730, 5782 to 5747, 
5760, 6751, 5753 to 6889, 5892, 5894 to 5900, 
6015 to 6017 and parts ot ,cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 5015 to 6018, 5022 to 5027, 9035, 
5040, 5489, 5597, 5598, 6633, 6634, 96৭6, 
5637, 5657 to 6660, 5664, 5665, 
8680, 5695, 5696, 5699, 5701, 571], 5717 to 
5710, 6721, 5722, 5731, 5748, 5749, 67652, 
5890, 6891, 5893 and 0818 and measuring, more 
or Jess, 169 50 acres, is likely to be needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesaid village of Andal. 


This notification 1s made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land, may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, P.O. Durgapur Coke Oven, Durga- 
pur, Burdwan. 

In exercise of the power« conferred by the said 
section rend with the said notification the Gover- 
nor is plenaed ہپ‎ suthoriae the officers for the time 
boing sagaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 


by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable who has 
any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which 
public notice of the substance of this 
notification is given in the locality, file an objec- 
tion in writing before the Collector, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1928 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the Governor is pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shall not apply to the waste or arable portions 
of the land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 11872L.A.—5th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of artiole 208 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
provision of additional yard facilities of the Hira- 
pur Exchange in the villages of Narasamuda and 
Santa Yard at mile 135, Barakar extension of 
Eastern Railway, jurisdiction list Nos. 5 and 28, 
respectively, thana Asansol, pargana Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that three 
pieces of land as described below and altogether 
measuring, more or less, 32.76 acres, are likely to 
be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid villages of 
Narasamuda and Santa: — 

Description of the land 

A piece of land in‘ Block A _ starting from 
chainage 29.43 feet Santa siding in mauza Narasa- 
muda and running generally towards south and 
attached to the Eastern Railway east old boundary 
line, passing through the mauzas Narasamuda and 
Sania and terminating at chainage 37.00 feet Hira- 
ur siding in mauza Santa and being 13.01 foet in 
bo dag and varying in width from 0 foot to 650 
eet, 


Another piece of land in Block B starting from 
chainage 18.10 feet Hiropur siding in mauza Nara- 
samuda and running generally towards south 


1609 


1610 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE QXTRAORDINARY, JULY 5, 1956 


{[Panr I 


attached to the west old boundary line of Napuria -» described below have been requisitioned under sub- 


siding and passing through the mauza Narasamuda 
and Santa and terminating at chainage 5.00 feet 
Napuria siding in mauza Santa, and being 960 
feet in length and varying in width from 0 foot to 
100 feet. 

Another piece of land in Block C starting from 
chuinage 36.00 feet Llirapur siding in mauza Santa 
and running generally towards south, attached to 
the west old boundary line of Hirapur siding and 
terminating at chainage 39.40 feet Hirapur 6 4 
in the same mauza and being 340 feet in lengt 
and varying in width from 250 feet to 320 feet. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Divisional Superintendent, 
Eastern Railway, Asansol. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section read with the said notification, the Gover- 
nor is pleased to authoriee the officers for the time 
being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and surve 
the land and do all other acts required or permittec 
by that section. کے‎ 

Any person interested in so much of the ৪০০৮9 
land as is not waste and arable who has any objec- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may, within thirty 
days after the date on which public notice of the 
1 اک‎ of this notification is given in the locality, 
file an objection in writing before the Collector of 
Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923 read with the 
aforesaid notification, the Governor is pleased to 
direct that the provisions of section 6A of the Act 
shall not apply to the “waste or arable portions of 
the land in this case. 


NOTICES 


Murshidabad.— No. 118661L.A.(P.W.).—6th July 
1956.—Wheresas 0.12 of an acre, more or less, of 
land situated in or near the village of Bharatpur 
described below has been requisitioned under sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the 
person authorised under the said section 8(1) for 
the purpose of providing facilities for irrigation 
and drainage, namely, for staff quarters at Bharat- 
pur (Murshidabad) in connection with Mayurakshi 
Reservoir Project; 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that m 
pursuance of section 4 of the snid Act the Gover- 
nor acquires such land being required for a public 
- purpose as aforesaid. 

This notice is given under the provision of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Birbhum. 


Description of the 8 


Mauza Bharatpur, jurisdiction list No. 68, thana 
Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plot in part—3796. 
Murshidabad.—No. 082 July 


1956.—Whereas 24.66 acres, more or less, of land 
situated in or near the village of Simulia and others 


geotion (1) of section 3 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the 
person authorised under the said section 3(1) for 
the purpose of providing facilities for irrigation 
and drdinage, namely, for excavation of Distribu- 
tary No. 20EX Kopai South Main Canal (chainage 
0 ‘to chainage 195) in connection with the 
Moyuraksh{ Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Governor 
wequires such land being required for a public 
purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provision of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948- (West 
Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Maugza Simulia, jurisdiction list No. 92, thana 
Bharatpur, district Murshidabad., 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1272, 1274, 1286, 
1308, 1804, 13806, 13807, 1808, 1321, 1322, 8929, 
1370, 1871, 1380, 1981, 1382, 1989, 1390, 1498, 1503, 
1504, 1405, 1806, 1807, 1508, 1500, 1510, 151], 
1776, 1638, 1539, 1548, 1546, 1547, 1582, 1652, 
1581, 1585, 1586, 1591, 1593, 1594, 1496, 1597, 
1599, 1613, 1617, 1619, 1620, 1621, 1622, 1630, 
1631, 1655, 1656, 1658 and 1659. 


Mauza Kvera, jurisdiction list No. 94, thana 
Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Madastral survey plots in part—99, 296, 457, 
459, 466, 467, 468, 469, 470, 472, 473, 474, 476, 
476, 477, 535, 439, 640, 545, 544 547, 548, 451, 
552, 653, 3056, 557, 558, 613, 614, 614, 616, 623, 
624, 627, 628, 630, 699, 700, 701, 702, 704, 714, 
715, 748, 749, 752, 753, 766, 767, 758, 769, 1487, 
1488, 1489, 1490, 1491, 1494, 1495, 1496, 1509, 
1610, 1611, 1612, 1516, 1516, 1517, 15198, 1620, 
1621, 1526, 1642, 1676, 1683, 1684, 1685, 1686, 
1687, 1692, 1693, 1698, 170], 1702, 1706, 1703, 
1712, 2425, 2426, 2518 and 2519. 


Mauza Jaulia, jurisdiction list No. 95, thana 
Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—1437, 1558, 
1559, 1560, 156], 1565, 1672, 1568, 1692, 1723 
and 1871. 

Cadastral survey plots “in part—f89, 1045, 
1065, 1162, 1169, 1170, 1172, 1173, 1114, 1175, 
1176, 1177, 1178, 1184, 1185, 1186, 1194, 1195, 
1196, 1197, 1198, 1201, 1206, 1288, 1237, 1238, 
1239, 1240, 1327, 1828, 1380, 1331, 1332, 1334, 
1916, 1361, 1862, 1367, 1964, 1394, 1395, 1396, 
1400, 1408, 1409, 1410, 14238, 1480, 143], 1452, 
1438, 1434, 1436, 1438, 1439, 1440, 1562, 1563, 
1564, 1566, 16567, 1569. 1670, 1662, 1663, 1670, 
1671, 1675, 1676, 1690, 1691, 1695, 1694, 1707, 
1708, 1711, 1718, 1719, 1720, 1724, 17245, 1726, 
1727, 1729, 1730, 1732, 1738, 1734, 17385, 1736, 
1837, 1838, 1863, 1868, 1869. 1870, 1872, 1877, 
1878, 1880, 1885, 1888 and 1948. 


Mauza Jalehuti, jurisdiction list No. 97, thana 
Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—493, 496, 611, 
512, 513, 516, 518, 519, 694, 605, 696, 697, 698, 
80), ۲۵8, 724, T2d, 726, 727, 763, 764, 819, 820, 
821, 823, 824, 887, 891, 896 and 1196, 


By order of the Governor, 


P.M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and «published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government, Press, Alipore on the 5th J সী 1966, 


registered No, C207 No. 33601) 


11011111171 


‘Extraordinary - 
Published by Authority 


, FRIDAY, JULY 6, 1956 


ee 


و 


PART 1-0۴۶ tnd Notifications by the Governor dt West 
Bengal, the “tiigh Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT. 
Constifution and Elections. 
NOTIFICATION. 
No. QO&84A R.—Sth July 1956.—The follow- 


ing 70111081101) iy published for general mforma- 
1101) : سم‎ 


Raj Bhavan, 

Caleutta, 
The 4th duly 1956. 

NOTIFICATLON 
No, 21658. 

The 01075611008 on the advice of the Chief 
Minister has been pleased to make the following 
further unefidment in notification No, 34298., 


1611 


1612 THE CALOUTTA OAZERTE সে EXTRAORDINARY, [Paarl 


dated the 18th June 1952, as subsequently 
amended, namely :— 


Amendment 
In the said notification, 


for item (19) ءء:‎ 6 the following :— 


“Shri, Amulyadhan * Mukhopadhyay to be 
Minister in charge of the Department of 
t 99 


By order of the Governor, 
P. R. SINIIA, 
Seoy. to the ‘Governor of West Bengal. 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


ETRE Ta A I EEL ELIDA ডোর লারা سو‎ OT Riis Minas سو‎ 
Printed ond published by the Superintendent, Govt. ۰ا7‎ "Wont 
Bengal, at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 6th July 1956. 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority’ 


FRIDAY, JULY 6, 1056 


PART J~—Orders dnd Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


DECLARATION 


Burdwan.—No, 11914L.A.—6th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
11610 under the Jand*® Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), in relation ‘to the acquisitioA of land 
for the purposes of the Union have been entrust- 
ed to the State Government by natification 
No. 20/1/55-Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 196), 
issued by the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Home Affairs under clause (1) of article 
958 of the Constitution of India; 


1613 


1614 THE CALCUTTA GAZEITE EXTRAORDINARY, [ Part] 
JULY 6, 1956. 


And whereas dhe (tovernor is Satisfied 4 
land is needed for a public purpose, being a 
purpose of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur 
Steel Project in the villave of Andal, jurisdic, 
tion list No. 62) thana Ondal, pargana Sheragarh 
district Burdwan, 26 is hereby declared that, a 
niece of land in Block “M” qompristng cadastéi 
survey plot Nos. 602% to "031, 5599 ما‎ 66৭৭ 
4669 to 5679, 5681 to 5694, 5700, 6702 to 
6710, 57238 10 5730, 6782 -ta 5747, 5761, 5753 
to 6774, 6776 to ہ6806‎ 5808 to 6855, 5857 to 
68১0, 6892, 5895 to 5899, 6016 to 0011 and 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nog. 6016 to 6018, 
5022 to 6027, 6082, 5489, 539%, 0639 to 6634, 
636, 5637, 8657 to 6660, 6664, 6666, F668, 5696, 
§696, 6699, 5701, 6711, 6717 to 5719, 721, 
6731, 6748, 5749, 5762, 5891, 6893 and 6018, and 
measuring, more, or less, 1)7.41 acres, is required 
within the, aforesdid willuge 8۶ Andal; 

This dvelaration is made, ynder the provisions 
of keftian 6 of thes Land Acquisitions Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with ‘the anid notification, to all 
whem ft may concern. | 
/ A plan’ of the land may he inspected in thr 
office of tho Special 14700 Acyuisition 04 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Admmistrator, 
‘Durgapur Steel Project, 17071 office Durgapur 
Poke Oven, Burdwan. 


By order of the Ubvernor, 
۲ M. DATTA, 
Pry. acy. to the Gout. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West 8924 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 6th July 1966, 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 
eee ee 
SATURDAY, JULY 7, 1956 


RT IJ-~Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.—No, 11940L.A.—6th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the (fovernor that land is 
hkely ١۶ be needed for a public turpose, not 
heing a purpose of the Union, namely,-for Tower 
1886 No, 268A of Kalipahari-Burdwau section 
132 ×۷۰ Transmission Line in connection with 
the promotion and operation of schemes for the 
generation, transmission and distribution 01 
electric energy jin the village of Darbanpur, 


161.) 


1616. THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Past ॥ 
: JULY 7, 1956 


.:سفکتے۔_ے...سجسیحیکسِتےۓ: ٭ژ ‏ ژکژ ۹۹‏ ٌ.۔_.٤[٥ء.‏ ہج a‏ 


jurisdiction list No. 106, thana (0181) )ا:8‎ 
Burdwap,"it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising part of cadastral survey plot Nos. 0 
and 1061 and measuring, more-or less, .0206 of 
an acre fs-likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
wblic purpose at the, expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation, within thg aforesaid village 


of Darbarpur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all’whow it may 
concern, | ۱ 


A plan of the land may be inspdécted in the 
11009 of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred "by the 
aforesaid ক the Governor is plensed t 
cer 1 


authorise the officers fbr the 41706 being engag 
in the undertaking, with fheir servants a 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all pther acts required or permitted by tha 
section. 


In exercise of the” npowets vonferred by section 
17(4) of the Tand Acquisition Act, I of 1894, on 
amended hy Act XXXVIII of 1928, the Governor 
19 pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this cage. 


By order of the Governor, 


P.M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


বিডি ees 


Te tea 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt, Ptg., West Berg 
وہ‎ Weat Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, op the 7th July 6۰ 


Registered Noe. 0207 


Calrutta 


No. 33801) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


+ gr 


TUESDAY JULY 10, 1956. 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGA.. 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 11996L.A.—1l0th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
৪ purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 218C, 219B and 220A of Kalipahari-Burdwan 
Section 182 K. V. Transmission line in connection 
with the promotion and operation of schemes for the 
generation, transmission and distribution of 
electric energy in the villages of Khanpara and 
Kondaipur, jurisdiction list Nos. 40 and 4], 
respectively, thana 02151, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby notified that pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plots as detailed below and 
altogether measuring, more or less, .1058 of an 
acre, are likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesaid villages 
of Khanpara and Kondaipur. 


1617 


DISTRICT BURDWAN 
Thana Calsi 


Village Khanpara, jurisdiction list No. 40, 
Cadastral survey plots in part—28, 36 and 153. 
Village Kondaipur, jurisdiction list No. 41. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—145 and 147. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in th» 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


Tn exercise of the powers conferred by the atore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, 
to enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that saction. 


1618 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 10, 1956 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1304, us 
amended by Act XXXVITI of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 12000L.A.—1Uth July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 1s 
likely to be needed for a public purpuse, not being 
0, purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 287A, 238A, 239B and 240A of Kalipahari- 
Burdwan 132 K. V. Transmission line in connec- 
tion with the promotion and operation of schemes 
for the generation, transmission and distribution 
of electric energy for the Damodar Valley 
Corporation in the village of Paraj, jurisdiction 
list No. 48, thana Galsi, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby notified that pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 3820, 3521, 
6134, 6324, 6617, 6624, 6625 and 6661 and 
altogether measuring, more or less, .0985 of an 
acre are likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the expense of the Damodar Valley 
Corporation within the afgresaid village of Paraj. 


This notification is made, under the provigians 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894,:to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector. 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, 
to enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that éection. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVITI of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


[Parr 1 


Burdwan.—No. 2004L.A.—l0th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, narfiely, tor Tower Base 
Nos. 256A and 257A of Kalipahari-Burdwan Sec- 
tion 132 .کا‎ V. Transmission line in connection 
with thes promotion and operation of tho schemes 
for the peneration, transmission and distribution 
of electric energy in the village of Haripur, 
jurisdiction list No. 102, thana Galsi, district 
Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces of land 
comprisiug parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 72 
and 167 and altogether measuring, more or less, 
.0412 of an acre are likely to be needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
‘Damodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
village of Haripur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


An exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased tq, authorise 
the officers for the time being یوسوم‎ in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, 
to enter upon and survey the 18770 and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by sectian 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, nas 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this cose. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bongal. 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 10th July 1956. 


Registered No. C207 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, JULY 10, 1956 


PART IA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory 
Notifications of the Election Commission, India, and other Election 
Notifications published for general information. Orders and 
Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette 
of India” are only republished. 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi-2, the 22nd June 1956 
THE REGISTRATION OF NEWSPAPERS (CENTRAL) RULES, 1956 


8.8.0. 1519.—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 20-A of 
the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867 (25 of 1867), the Central 
Government herehy mukes the following rules nambly :-— 


1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be culled the 
Registration of Newspapers (Central) Rules, 1956. ° 


(2) They shall come into force on the Ist day of July, 1996. 


9, Definitions.—In thease rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 
(a) ‘Act’? means the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867; 
(0) “Form” means a Form ¢pecified in the Schedule to these rules; 
(c) ‘Publisher’? means the publisher of a newspaper. 


3. Form of declaration.—Hvery declaration madé under section o of 
the Act shall be in Form I and the person making the declaration shall 
give full and true particulars therein. 


1619 


1620 THE CAL. GAZ. 102017% JULY 10, 1966 ]11+ LA 
_ SE eel 


4, Transmission of copies of declaration to the’ Press Registrar:-—. 
copy of every declaration made under section 5, 8 az 8A of the Act before 
a Magistrate, duly attested by lis official seal, 90801] be forwarded by the 
Magistrate to the Press Registrur by registerdd pogt. 


5. Delivery of copies of newspaper to the Press Registrar.—(1) Kvery 
publisher shall» within 48 hours of thé publication of an issue of his neys- 
paper, send to the Press Registrar one copy of the issue by post or by « 
messenger : 


Provided that where uny newspaper publishes morg than one edition 
under the same declaration and the کت‎ selling price charged for, or the 
number of pages contained in, an issue of any such edition 1s different from 
an issue of any other edition, one copy of the issue of each such edition 
shall also in like manner be sent to the Press Registrar. 


(2) For the purposes of sub-rule (1)— 


(a) copies of the issues of newspapet’s published in Hindi, Urdu or 

nglish and of newspapers published in two Janguages, one of 

which is Hindi, Urdu or English, shall be sent to the Jress 
Registrar in New Delhi; 


(b) copies of the issues of newspapers published in any of the/regional 
languages specified in column I below shall be sent to thle Officer 
in charge of the Regional Office of the Press Information, Bureau, 
Ministry of Information und Broadcaséing, Goverrfyent df Tndia, 
at the place specified in the corresponding enfty in column 1 
and the officer shall take delivery of such newspaper on behalt 
of the Press Registrar :— 


e 


I 11 7 
Punjabi ... dullundur 
Bengali 7 
Oriya Calcutta 
Assamese 
Tamil 
Telugu } Madras 
Malayalam we) Brangkulam 
Marathi 
Gujarati ) Bambay 
Knannada Bangalore 


(c) copies of the issues of newspapers published in nny other Janguage 
shall be sent to the Press Regigtrar in New Delhi. 


6. Annual Statement.—(1) Every publisher shall, in respect ot his 
newspaper or each of IM» newspapers, furnish to the Press Registrar an 
annual statement relating to 0801 calendar year in Form II 00711118118 the 
particulars specified tHerein, so as,to reach the Press Registrar on or 
before the last day of February of the following year, 


Part LA | TUM CAL. GAZ. বো, JULY 10, 1956 1621 


Nore.—The stulement to be submitted on or before the امھ(‎ day ot 


February 1957 need relate only to ¢) | 
aie ee নিন রিল মান 


(2) Whenever there is 1 change in the retail selling price of a news- 


paper as furnished in any statement, the publisher shall, within 48 hours 
of such change, send intimation theryof to dhe Press Registrar. 


a Maintenance of the Register.x—(1) The Press Registrar shall main- 
(011৮0 Register of Newspapers in Form III, 


(2) The pages of the Register shall he numbered consecutively and 
eniries In respect of & newspaper shall start trom a fresh page. When 
particulars enumerated in Form I have been entered in the Register in 
yespert of a newspaper, the Press Registrar shall allot ×۰ registration 
aunber to that newspaper. Initial entries in the Register and subsequent 
changes, 11 any, shall be duly authenticated under the signature of the 
Press Registrar. 


(9) The Press Registrar shally in respect of every newspaper, cause 
relevant entries to be made in the Register and before making any entry 
therein, he may make such verification of the statements furnished to him 
by the newspaper as be may consider necessary. 


8. Particulars to be published in every newspaper.—The publisher 
shall publish in eyery issue of bis newspaper the retail selling price of each 
copy, or, when there is no such selling price, shall publish in an appropriate 
place that it ٭ز‎ for free digtribution. The publisher shall also publish in 
the first issue after the last day of February of each year the particulars 
specified in Form iv. 


9, Furnishing of extracts from the Register.—The Press Registrar 
shall, on an application made to him in writing and on payment of ao fee 
f rupee one in respect of each newspaper, furnish to the applicant 83:90 
bon the Register duly certified by him. 


10. Cortificate of registration.—(1) Where a publisher makes a 
declaration before a Magistrate, the Press Registrar shall, as soon as 
practicable, after receipt of the copy of the declaration, issue to the 
publisher a certificate of registration in Form V 


(2) On receipt of information furnished by the publisher of a newspaper 
and upon allotting, under rule 7(2) a registration number to that newspaper, 
the Press Registrar may also issue to the publisher a certificate ol 
registration in Form V. : 


11. Annual Report.—The Press Registrar shall submit to the Central 
(foverunmené on or before ۵أ(‎ in April of efich year, an annual report 
containing informatioy and s istics about the Press جا‎ India, and in 
partiewlar, circulation trenfs in different categorjes of newspapers and the 
trends in the’direction of common ownership of more than one newspaper: 


۹ মাঃ 


Provided that the annual report to be submitted on or betore the 30th 
April 1957 may relate only to,the period from the Ist Tuly 1956 to the 31st 
Decembér 1956. 


[Part TA 


1956 


ATRY., JULY 10, 


1 
এ 


THE CAL. GAZ 


1622 


‘efqeoijdds jou si ۶0۸0(0 4NO JANIS, 


02978 


| _________  oarmvuitig 


سس یشیش 


>1010مرہح1 
or} ee জিরা দা aga. jo 0০০০০ 951০০ 00 oniy,‏ لسسود8 SI‏ }0 


শিট lll শী ীঁীী ৪৪৩০০ 
এরা ডে01391 
lll mene ৩৩ -* rs دا‎ ক ৪1 9,3৬0 
মি FS لے‎ ee ee ee ssoIppy 
সপ সাপ সপে পপ. টি © لے‎ ae ee 2-2 ARI BUOIFBN, 
SUIBN নি. 
55০ 
007ھ‎ 
“= “৯০ ہ ںو‎ 6, 1oUuBIIGqng 
٠٭‎ Jodedsmou of} jo coud [77০ 
“ক 80وج‎ aq 07 Bt 

41 فإواد9‎ 2০ চিতা مو‎ নর ey} وا‎ উল کو‎ ৪2 jo 431017৯0739 
ae جہ کو سیت‎ SI W عسہ‎ a setoudus ]/Sauasaw] 
ee sededsmau oy} jo গা], 


30187 


ey 


"g 
"? 
6 
6 
۲ 


‘jorjeq pues کی /دصد چەمصضەمحقد‎ jo 2৪9৭ ey} 04 
me ere Jepunaley 29৯8 sodedsmeu pivs ey} مر‎ 9০9০9 ul sremoaijsed ج9‎ ঢু Ajumajos Op pue—————_——_—_——38._ poyatiqnd puv peyuid eq 
oe era ee peystjqnd, s0————___—___—_—_——_—-w pojuuid oq ০০৬ .۸م...ے ے‎ sodedsmou eq} jo 


omy sag)‏ ع۔) 
I NRUOA‏ 
fo uso‏ 97870821290 
روخ :688 یج 


1623 


EXTRY., JULY 10) 1956 


THE CAL. GAZ. 


Parr [A] 


গু গ ےی‎ শি গগন ھ و‎ ever 2০111 3} jo ১৬১২৮১১১৪০২ Le سب بای‎ eR وو‎ ee 


٢ 


“91৩9 ح٥‎ espe; souyq Aur jo 79০৭. eG} چہ‎ 92৪3 95৪ 9১০9 قبمہہ‎ sIBMaIzIEd وہ‎ 9৪৭৭ ৪২০1০০৮০ Aqoroy ۲۰۰۰۰۲۲۲۲۱ ھت مخ مم‎ তত? ‘7 


-০জনে “A0N 30 «“Ideg প্রা Amp oung Ae pidy ‘rey ‘qoeq ‘ues‏ رہم 


Fae os 394 8 ur 90179970030 sdup jo iequinN "চা 
.لے‎  ‘srededsncu 
موہجود‎ jo yoodsez ہہ‎ onest sad saZed کر‎ soquimu 553৯৬ (9) 
‘siadadsmou Apyoes pure Apyoos-11y4 39ک“‎ -۹ 
‘<rrep jo yoodsei wm yoom sad sated yo ود‎ ateioay (2) ‘OT 
٠ تا‎ 2 ۔ہررعم٤‎ 4 3০ ০০ (9) 
০০7০১200009 পচ 
Surju1id 93974 ৪9৪1 0০০ oy} jo 90009০৩9৪০৩ [00 9241, (D) 6 
<* ws নও ag ssorppy 
ঠা ک1‎ 
90491 ,s1cystyiqng ٤8 
নী স্ব হক 
Be 2” ১০১০১ 
a 7 90৪13 ۳ودزسرعدےہ‎ *L 


ue i গননা 8, JOUPY 9 
°(Aep Aioso paysyqnd jou 2০৮৭ 

৪০1৭0 jo 9৪৪০ oy} ul) 079০1100 eq} jo sRuq/steq (و)‎ 
নি sodedsaou oy} ور‎ 0০0529০71৮0 aq} jo Ayiarpotisg (2) پ۔‎ 
-*paysqnd st zededs.sou eq} yorys ul sesunZuauy/esunsuey "ক 
ue 2 au sodedaaeu oy} 3০ OTT, "£ 
Jodedsaou راہ‎ jo Jaqumu 0017953979৩ “2 
peqsijqnd st Jodedemau 343 ٠د دج‎ Jopun uonjerepeg "7 


| “VW 
টিটি SS SS VV 
¢ ۴ £ 6 T 
ছিন্ন) jo (s)ayep 
"SyIe کوولو‎ qi read of} Jump ‘Aue >0ON 
نر گا‎ jo ید( ۲ء ہر 1 0ت ححجحوہ ےت ڈندڈیر رن‎ surety “$s 
[(1)9 ey ০০511 
It 7৮০ 


[Pare ۸ 


JULY 10, 1956 


XTRY., 


٠ 
ر4‎ 


GA A. ] 


014. 


d 


THT 


1624 


** [7709০ oy3 مر‎ ৭309৩ 1904 900 ueq} 
e10UI ৬১০ دہ‎ sicUuzIEd jo sremnoy 
-red pus ‘pera}sz3amm Jo 79597515894 
81 ۲و‎ 59019ন- “ULI ٭‎ sf JauMoO ہہ‎ JT (F) 
2 97555 ospy (9) 


"2 (20) গুন jo ‘yu90 aed auo وہ‎ ৪৬০০ 
Zurpjoy 23270০7০২7৪ 310 sicu;ied pue 
iededs.4ou oq] دہ مض‎ STENpLampul jo ۰ک‎ 
UaALS aq peou (ےەمرہدیحصد‎ sadedsmeu on} 
jO S1I90MMO Off} JO SogsoIpPpE 69ح‎ এগ (91 ‘Or 


2 ۴ ৪ ۷ھ‎ I ۱ 
8939৯591309 Jo 01797007719 , 
poo[q ‘e#eizear Aq siapjoy [8}de.) jo oreys jo one, ssaIpPpYy OuUrBe NT d1ysigung— 9 
-০এ৪ নও 49150 وہ‎ ০০৪19 291131 ۹ 
ee 98۶۹2 ۵۹ص 0 -:عغص ض صٗ‎ 
ت90 ت02909 تک"‎ ST 4০57009০০7৮ 10 309207৮05 
peseyseqo & 4q ০0875597009 4006) ১৯০০০ 4ou ৪907১ এা Surqerjqnd এও تحبمجرمح‎ 921০০ مر‎ Jequinu efBieas ey} এনে এ১ siodudsmeu jo yoodbol Uleg 
soypny pegients yweyMony چوسوصدع‎ এ 
509071253110107) 
جج یپ ےم ےو جا دح وم ددع ھ دموھہ‎ 53181] jo aAMIBVUBIS 3 ৪ ৮১১০৪ 
٦39۹ pus ০27১০914০সু Aur Jo 9990. وحدہ }0 یہ‎ 93 9০০৪ قبددہ‎ sre[nozed 9৭3 جہھو‎ 931০9) ০০০০০০০০০০০ TI 


৮৯ 4980০ iad ৪০130 Zunes 181০২ "৩ 
°° (৪০৫০০ ০০০ pus ajdures ‘snuog ۵ہ آلہ'‎ 
-xe 54909280 “709৫5105000 Zurpnyour) 
eal} [১০775575810 دم دہ‎ jo Jequinu 289০৯ “FT 
৮ ৯ pjos sardoo jo Joquinu 323030۸۳ 1ج‎ 


ex Asp 71 


یھر ید :در مرورمی 
১ 282 7 রাত‏ 
9 30ہ وذ ودیہ لہ 
مسح٠‏ رہ٠ Ame AjreoxX 9০৫ Avy pidy "এগ‏ چعق: ڈو نہ۹ “eq «AON‏ 1 3099] کر 
APH‏ ۶ 21 


—— EF 


1625 


XTRY., JULY 10, 1956 


۹ 
4 


THis CAL. GAZ, 


Rue LA | 


کان یئ بط اگ jo‏ 8ءء چو - س٣220‏ ع کہ عم Teer ee ee‏ 


291০৭ 08 aspejmouy Lu Jo ہومھو‎ SY} ٭ہ مہ تہ 978 رہ‎ DIALS ہدص[٥ہ جب 3٥د رح‎ 39৭15 ০৪1০০) £৭498 رہ اس سے‎ সদ 4০০০০ ০৩৪ I 


. ود یں بہت‎ oq ০519 01015 Furjow SI می‎ YONS رسکی سم‎ 0019:70009 Jo Uosiod 34} ور‎ 
بورصورمه- رہ ہہ‎ Kawronpy 410430 AUB Ul JO و9تره٥‎ BB Auedmos ay} jo sqoog aya uodn sreedde sepjog AyLMdee JO 791০4 ৯০০০৪ eG} ০৪৭-৬ eae2 Ul[— ALON 


۰ 189178295 20 

‘spuoq jo 20009 ۲101 1‏ سەامر3ول5دہ ہد 

5010-۸0 0د 2০ ZuIpjoy‏ ود 1090“ ৩৪০০ Jo‏ مر 
5০958300059?‏ اص 10430 ۵مہ روگ مرموبع 

-Joy 9৫070997910) ‘alepjoy puog umouy ey, “LI 
me ae کور تی۵‎ 


+ 
০9০০৪ oq pmoys aiqzorjdde 9০৩ surozy (1) 
۶ 


‘sadedsmau 99 jo diye 
-IGTLAO BVATPOOS GsOfasip وہ‎ Stuy ۰ 
eq p[noys 5০13৪025051 رہد کحرمدہوصمر‎ ۳ )٢(۔-هم‎ 


IGILAO YORE JO OIBI[S OY} 11100080 ۹۲ء‎ 
pus diysiouso jo مہ‎ Jayjo چیک‎ (4) 


s 0 s © : “079 “SAT ROOK 
13578], ay} مر‎ Sioquicul اج‎ UBULIIGY,) 
vif} jo ‘ajo 18998994100 pus 90911 
40205591005 JO -A}oINGY ‘AI@II0g aAl} 
-giodo-0,) 45778 ٭‎ st 10};9UIdO0Id ayy JT (1) 


۶ ey 0 993 oy se (q) 
$ ৫ مر‎ (11) ৭ (1) ৪03৪২ Jo (8) ও Ul 0} 
paLigjal srepnoujsed আও pus مت ۱1ک“‎ 
yo03s yutof ৪ Jo WY ہی بت وی‎ 
uu st 2095 Zuiteusul oq} 29197. 
‘juade auiseueu ہ‎ Aq pasvusul si 0 
مرسو چم 0010ی‎ ও BI مصعدد‎ By} JT (HT) 


: 7৪20০ ey} jo “4ua0 sad ওতে) 
এলছুও ৬৫০০] ZuIpjOy ৪০০০০৭৯০৪৭৪ pus 
৪০7০0 5০ ০0৬০৭ otf} Jo 9০0০০ 
pus UBUILIGY,) JO sagsoIpps اح‎ 90 
2u3, pus 200০০ poy oyeald ও 
10 930০ ৩907, 21080 ৪ ৩০7 ৮০৭ 


| PA RF [ A 


CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 10, 1956 


۹ 
4 


11! 


? 
(পি EE, ARE] OO RR Car emi i ee a CS a (س‎ 


1626 


০০ মহ 


* [21090 [#703 ০নু Jo 083০ ০ مر23010 90056 جج۱ ہہ‎ siaplogereus 


30 ssouyzed pu ieodedsmou 2১ USO 97৬৬ S[ENPLARpU! Jo seaIppe pure souren " 


000 ied esd ت3‎ 1৮০২7 

= 0 seidoo مر‎ 1equmu 953৮১ (০) 

ee os 01০৪ serdoo مر‎ soqumu 983৩-১৮ (9) 
a * ০ 7০70 8900০. jo 1equrou 9534৮ (2) 


zeaf eq} Ul 0179০170739 ৪4০ موم ہہ دد مر‎ * 


srodedsmou +01130 3০ 2০০৪ UI ان گن‎ sod 5990 ja 1oquinu efviery (و)‎ 
siaivdsmou Afyoom ا‎ 
এস০৯০ -ও৭ “এস 1q نس‎ jo ہس‎ 0: yoo 390 sated zo ioquinu (؛ئ) چمحمتھلقہ‎ 


07০০1] مر‎ ০০ানে (9) 


রিও ڈراہ اعت 00 آ0‎ 5595] 0090 ae JaNeoos oswoid pus onzy, (vp) - 


ssolppy 
6ھ‎ N 


টা 
রর এছ BAT 
6 اخفیلہتت‎ 


গা ৪,৪০7 °‏ :0 بد 


es (Agp 4০১৪ 
poustand 4 موہ‎ 


sodedsmou oy} yo تیہ[|ربدط(ہہ+‎ 972 Jo 47197১05393 ٭ (ئ)‎ 


رو3 مت ُء ۔قجوتدہ qary Wi‏ ۷ہ et Jodedsmeu‏ سن 2° ০‏ 9 


ُ ০০৬ jo 917 


+01818۸۸311 oy} مر‎ Jaquinu 00733351595 


4: “+ poystqud st sededaaou oy} سورمو‎ sopun sJoquinu ৪০14391০৯00 - 


ems 20g)‏ وں و 
I-Wuo0d‏ 
adndemayy fo 4০/৮৪০]‏ 


58 


"él 


08 


** چروسدہ‎ sroysgng " 


. تا یئ تن 


٦ 
۶ 
لے‎ 


9০ + 


مر A ww‏ بے 


1627 


THE CAL. GAY. EXTRY,, JULY 10, 6 


Part IA] 


নিল 


seysyqud مر‎ amysusy See ee 


“3779৭ pue ospejmouy Aur jo 959৭7 ০৭% 


2০১৪ sremMoizred oy} 38q} ০এ৭৪1৯০০ 7949 (= TT‏ کبعمدہ ওএস‏ 920 وہ 


-yeyideo 19105 oy} مر‎ 409০ Idd ouo ق6‎ aiodk Surpigy ssspjoqoisys 


(৪ amy ৮০5) 
ھ۸‎ ۲105 


"fuonigeag 8০181020291 


ay? 49110 ۸ھ‎ হি 493 চরিত 29481 ay} Ut 109951172০৫ وہ‎ ( ) 4০270097528 ynogp 85015952525 49470 10৬ ৫6 54০২4৫5০2০৫ 249%025 


io 9৬930 [003 390054১90. og} WMO ০ 9192101003৬ 998৯০47077৪ 20 ৪০779 “YG 
a ee es دو‎ oe ee os ee ٠ ت99‎ 
1ئ نین بے‎ 
رک رو ار کرو ا تر ےت‎ নিউ ৩. we oe * » ০ oe aUIeN s.JOVIPA এ 
nS শী সী ee ee oe es ee eo ssoIppYy 
£ = : ee Pa ee en ee se 1]1061019وڈر کل‎ N 
ee? .س‎ ee vs ৯ es °° শুনা 8. zoqsiqng ‘> 
۰70000000922007 کے کے‎ ee ہے‎ হি ات‎ ssoIppy 
FFF এ 72 তে =s ۰ 1یت لے‎ 
+کیسشوپسٹئ یم شس جشئے تہ رر کے رت‎ ae بچجیے بشح‎ oe -- ৯ ٠٠ ۰٠٠ ساس ٭َ‎ ১০ 21281 ي۔‎ 
سس‎ শা শশা শশা টা শশী ক es = سای‎ ٠<. قرو جمصوبمد‎ pq ০591০7০০05০ “3 
___ শর টা .ح8‎ ٠ ৬ 3 کآسممدر چموچمعریممدے‎ “EF 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 10, 1956 [Parr IA 


1628 


"9৭61 4 f GOL eq} uo ৪০ ‘ssolg 2090394.0 [৪7৩ 99۸ 8 
“۲22095 219৩ : ছাত্র quoumruieaos) ‘Quepuequlzedng ভন? 97۲ ۲۲و٥٥‎ 008 peyulig 
+£০9৪ محمد‎ “1۵00 “MH “a 
[03-92/091) AT “ON] 
یریپ‎ ۲07 WHdVdS MAN AO UVULSIDAU ا‎ +9۳۵ * = Sct Re tne haw و تو وکو وو‎ রক ہے‎ ore 
"* uorsornd jo sould ۲ 
00870 81 sonoma om ae soni اعت‎ jo রি ওিওছ০এ নে pup ০০৭ ১ "৪ 


* . ssaIppy 
: —e- °° os os ee ee ক ০ AqpeUONEN £ 
রি লা তরি রা মা ক ا‎ eee کت‎ নি ০1২ و8 - توم‎ 
"000.6 20 ee es + se oe ee ey پا ہے نے‎ 
ee : oo 0> ; ক্যাডার 
- ۰ ০৯ os 5৬ নি ee কচ تسود‎ "% 
9 000000000000 0 ٦ ৯» ৮ ee os wecIppy + 
, — *? ee 7 ee — ১ ee 2 ভু اپ ٹر ئ۲۷۱۹‎ 
nfs ٠ “= عیم کر‎ rie 7 ےہ 1193 ہہ‎ 191185110 "9 
১৪০০৯১৪১০০০ ১ "০ 29050194497 جوہ‎ jo cond peyoy “০ 
শিকল ome aI arm Go 89291 0 8920 پیسس سو مر بچہ قص معوجہەہ ٭ع یہ‎ > 
শা hg nn ৭ poyerqnd sr جو‎ qorqas ul salknSue]/eSensue7 1 -¢ 
—_——$ ee তত ۰ 5 সি چ۰ ,01794187297 01101+ وص یو و‎ 
oo : sodudsmoy oy} jo Ot, ٦ 


"LOSI “IW «HOO jo 00793752592 pus spel حا یہ‎ ৮০০০, ےصح‎ sey ০০1০ ৪০০৬৫০৬৩০1৭ 043 95۶0 এ +০০ 04 SISTEL 
“VIGNI WOd 186১৩ 3۸۲ AO ۹9+0 15 GFLL ‘dO 80170 


وہ 4 ے ‏ موں وو یی 
(Ol জাম og)‏ 
A KUO0d‏ 
2০7০4897298 fo ০০০90‏ 


Registered No, C207 No. 34011) 


Calrutta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, JULY 10, 6 
উস 
PART I—Orders“and Notificatigns by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Goverpment Treasury, efc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPABTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND SUPPLIES 
Food and Supplies 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 6979F.S.—Hth July 1956.—The following notificittion No. .8.B.0.- 
1467 45 ang 6/56, dated the 26th dune 1956, issued by Yhe (oyern- 
ment of India, Ministry ۹۲ 00006 and Jndyjstry and published at 
pages 1533-1535 in the Gazette of India, 12217074174) Part I1, section 3, 
of the 26th June 1966, 18 republished, in the Calcutta Gazette for general 
information. 


By ordef of the Governor, 
-K, N. +041 EE, 
Asstt. Secy.. 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
New Delhi, the 26th June 1956 
: ORDER 

§.R,0, 1457/1DRA/18C /6/56,—Whereas it appears to ‘the Central 
(ioverrmment that for the pubpose of aécyring the equitable distribution and 
availatelityoat fair prices of tement, the supply and distribution of, and 
trade লা] commerce in, cement should be regulated ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the ‘powérs conferred by section 18G of 
the Industries (Development and Regylation) Act, 1951 (LXV of 195%), 
the Central Government hereb#‘makeg the followdnp Qrder, namely :— 

1. Short title, extent and commencement.«—(1) This Order may be 
called the Cemen Contxol Order, 1956. 


1629 


1630 THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 10, 1956 [Part I 
বউ উট রি ene উরি নিল নি রি ইউ nen ee F 


2 Tt extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu aud 
Kashmir, 


(3) It shall came into fgrce on ihe first day of July, 1956. 


2. Definitions.—In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires,— 


(a) “cement” aneans uny* variety of cement manufactured in India, 
und imeludes rapid hardening cement, but does not include 
water-preof cement and white and colouged cement (other than 
grey portland cement).oy any other 88197 of cement which the 
Centra] Government -may, by, notification in the Official Gazette, 
specify’ as‘not béing cement for the purpase of this Order. 


(6) “Corporation” nreans the State Trading Cerporation of India 
(Private). Limited ; | 

(9 “Produver”? meang any person who 0 01906098 cement. 

ا 


Producers to sell cement to Corporation.—(1) Kvery producer shall 
sel]— i ৭ পু 
۴ ال‎ * 


(a) the entire quafitity of cement held in stock bx him on the date of 
cofamencement of this Order’ and 

(৮) the entize quantity of cement which may be pradubed by him 
duriug a period of two years from the ‘date of commencement of 


thie Order ; 


to fhe Corporation, md deliver the same. to auch person’ dr persons as may 
be specified by the Corporstion in this behalf from time to time. 


(2) Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, every prdducer shall 
dispose of cement lying in stock with or produced by him, in ‘accordance 
with the- provisions of sub-clauge (1) and shall not dispose of any cement 
in contravention thereof.” 


4. Cement not to be removed from premises of producer without 
permission.—-(1) No producer shall remove or permit the removal of any 
cement, whether sold or unsold, from any part of his premises to any place 
otitside Ins premises except with the ‘wryjten permission of the Central 
Government or suth other officer as may be specified by it in this behalf. 


(2) Nothing contdined in sub-clause (1) shall apply in respect of any 
cement sold to the Corporation in pursuance of clause 3. 


6. Maintenance and production of ~ books of account, etc., by 
producers.—{1) Every producer shall keep such books, accounjs and records 
relating to the production of cement as the Central Government may 
Fequire. 


۰ (2) Every producer and every person employed by him im connection 
with the production of cement shail, on being required sq,to do either by 
the Central‘ Government or by such authority as may be specified<in this 
behalf .by the Central Government, and within 81901 period as may be 
allowed in this behalf— 


(৫) produce before the Central Governngent or authority such books of 
accoumt or other 19011081765 as may he specified “by the Central 
Governmen{ er authority; and — 

(b) furnish to the 06071 Governmént or authority such returns and 
other ‘information relating, fo his -business as may he ৪80 
specified. 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 10, 1956 1631 
eee 


*¢. Gontrolled prices of cemoent.—(1) The price at which a producer 
may sell cement shall be a» specified in the Schedule: 


Provided that, where under any contract relating tv the sale of sement 
entered into by a producer before the commencement vf this Order the 
producer had agreed to allow a rebate, discount or commission in the price 
of cement payable by the purchaser, the Corporation 91901] be entitled to 
deduct from the price payable m respect of the cement sold to it under 
clause 3 the amount of the rebate, discount or commigsion*in the same 
manner and to the game extent as it could have done if instead of thg person 
mentioned in the contract the Corporation had been a party thereto. 


Esplanation.—The price fixed in the Schédule is ex¢lusive of— 


(9 the — duty payably by the producer in respect of the cemgnt 
produced by him; and 


(77) the cost 6f packing’ or of containers, tf uny. 


The price at which the Corporation ‘may sell cement to’ any person‏ ری 
shall be Rs. 102-8 per ton of packed camént frée on rail destination rajlway‏ 
station : :‏ 


Provided that— 


(2), in a ag of rapid hardening cement thgre- shali be added £ sumr 
of* Rs. 6 per ton or such othér sum as the Central Government 
may fix in this behalf; and 4 


(8) in respect of unslacked cement the price referred جا‎ in this sub- 
clause shall be reduced by that amoaunt which would have 
covered the éost of packing or of containers, if any, if the 
cement had been delivered in a pa&tked condition. 


(3 The price ate which cement may be sold fn a State by a dealer” 
(whether wholesale or retgil) other than the Corporation shall be such as 
may be fixed byethe State Government. 


(4) For the purposes of: this clause’ the Central Government may fix the 
maximum amounta اون‎ in respect of packing or containers, and 
different maxima may be fixed for different kinds of paeking or yonfainers. 


The Schedule 
[See clause 6 (@).] 


The ptice at which each producer may sell cement free on rail ex-works 
is‘the price which has been deigrmined by the Captral Government in respect 
of that produéer, having regard to the recommendations of the Tariff Com- 
mission on th® revision of praces of cement, and to all other relevant 
circumétances,-4Rat is to siy,— 


Name of Producer Price 
(per ton) 
; the 
(1) Messrs. Associrted @emieat’ Companjes ‘Timited, Nop. 121, 

Queen’s Roud, Bembay-L oe cree . 04 8 
(2) Messrs. Rohtas Indystries Famited,. Valmianagar . bd 8 
(8) Messrs. Jaipur Udyog Limited, Sawhi MadKopur .. 57 0 

: a 0 » 4 P 
(4) Mesgrs. Ashokn Cement Limjted, Dalnwianagar .. O08 Bs 


(5) Mesars. Dalmia, Cemgut (Bhafat) "himited, Dalmiaputam 53 8 


1632 THE CAL. GAZ BXTRY., JOLY 10, 1956 [Parr I 
উলটা সজল 


Name of Producer, Pric® 

(per ton). 

Rs. a. 
(6) Messrs. Orissa .Cement Limited, Rajgangpu . of 8 
(7) Messrs. Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited, Dalmia Dadri... 53 8 
(8) Messrs. Shree Digvijay Cement Company Limited, Seeka 58 0 


(9) Messras Sone Valley Portland Cement Company Limited, 


Japla 0 দর 7 00 4 
)10( Messrs. Kalyanpur lime and Cement Works 110.) Banjari 53 8 
(11) Messrs. Andhra Cement (Co. Lid., Vijayawada » لہ‎ 8 
(12) Messrs. Bagalkot Cement Co. Ltd., Bagalkot کہ‎ bf 8 
(13) Messrs. India Cement J.td., Tikajyath, = 58 8 
(14) Messrs. Travancore Cements Ltd., Kottayam 07 8 
(15) Messrs. Mysore Iron & Steel Works, Bhadravati . ob 8 
(16) Messrs. U. P. Government Cement Works. ‘Churk, U.P. ئ)‎ 8 


[(CEM-8(366) /56. | 


N, SUBPRAHMANYAM, 
Jt. Seey. to the Govt. of India. 


® e ? + 
Printad and yublished by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Banga! Government Press, Alipore on the 10th July 6. 


isistered No. C207 No. 341(1} 


Calrutte 


Extraordinary . 
‘Published by Authority 


স্পস্ট ns 
WEDNESDAY, JULY 11, 1056 

| RT J—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 

Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


Political 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 6297P./14R-10/5)—llth July 1956.— 
Whereas the lands deseribed in the schedule below 
were reyuisitioned under sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 29 of the West Tbengal Security Act, 1940 
(West Bengal Act“X1X of 1950); 


And whereas no agreethent can be renched in 


respect of the amount of compensation payable on 
account of such requisition of the said lands; 


1633 


1034 THE CALOUTTA GAZETIE EXTRAORDINARY, [Pam 5 
JULY 11, 1956 


০৬ ৯‏ ہد 


ee তল 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-section (8) of section 29 
ot the West Bengal Secugity Act, 1950 (West 
Bengal Act XIX of 1950), the Gdovernor is pleased 
to appomt Shri D. N. Chakladar, District Judge, 
Jalpaiguri, as an Arbitrator for the determination 
and theeawarding of the amount of such compensa- 
1101), 


The Schedule 


(1) Lands of Shri Inanendra Noth Bhattacharjee 
measuring 1 bigha 15 kathas 2 dhurs, thak No, 1, 
sheet No. 16, cadastral survey plot Nos. 777, 778, 
79 and 80 ات ٭‎ taluk Bara Haldibari,  police- 
station Haldibari, district Cooch Behar. 


(2) Tunds of ¥m. Amiva Prova Debi, wife of 
Shri Jnanendra ‘Nath’ Dhattacharjee, measuring 
10 bighas 14 hauthay 4 dhurs, thak No. 1, ۴۷ 
No. ,لیا‎ *adastral survey plot Nos. 838, 835, 836, 
889, 840, 856 and 871 in taluk Bara 11010110৭20, 
police-stution, Haldiband, district Cooch Behar. 


By order of the Governor, 


8. DUTT-MAZUMDAR, 
Thy, Necy, to the (17111, it West Bengal, 


a 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Benga! 
at Weey Bengal Govt. Prem, Alipore, on the 119) Jnly 1956. 


ay‏ 08 آ0 


y 1 2 af \ اما‎ 

0 7 | ৃ 31, 8 

I | 7 و0‎ 
39 ۹ 

۷ نا 

۱ ۱ 


3 en a Sy 

1 ۶ খা 

3 © ٣ 

॥ : 27 

1 1) é 

8 $ : 4 ; 7 

a ا‎ 3 0 ' » রি 201 29 
aoe Published by Authority * | 

7 > ۴ 7 ۱ is 

7 ٦ ot ۹ é ‘+ |] ١ 4 
3 ; 1 ۱ 81৮৩ ۲ ۰ a ty ? 
1 ১1 ٠ 0 4, 1 রে 8 7 ] 7 ا‎ 0 
سو‎ eee hme وا ۸مد‎ কা কা পা টার্ন *পপী ক ও জা - ॥ * 2 

5 সু] ۱ ۸۷ ۷ 71 ae ees গা کسر‎ না ۰ًٔ  + ER سی‎ ک٦‎ 
1 ১০ . ۳7 1 . ۴٣ 9 ১১ ۵ : 


71 THURSDAY, JULY 12,:1956. 


a ' 


মা রি 


| tioned Extraordinary issues of the “ Calcutta Gazette” were published 


x 


। کت‎ ۱ up to 29th June 1956 .. 


Iesue Order /Notification/ Department. 


No. Declaration No. and date, * টিক 232 lias : 


B12 (1) ০. 2006Cot., dated the 26th Cot and Small-Scale Amendments in the State Aid «1587-1 
1 ۳ June 1956. a Industries. | to Industries ৮ ete রসি 
B13 (1) 


ane 
4১, 


Moa: 1994-1995A.R.,.. dated Home (Constitution and Blec- Governor’s assent to Stat: i ৃ / 
000 the 25th June 1956, tions). to Industries ৭ ",وھ" اخ‎ 
ا‎ ape : ۵ | 1956, and President’s assent to the 
ৃ | | i Tribunals of Criminal Jurisdiction 

۱ * (Amendment) Bill, 1956. 0 0 


(Tq) um, ae tas, dated the 25th Legislative و‎ .« West Bengal Act XVI of 1956 4. | 1853-1554 


3 ডি: ॥. Now 15091; died ۔: سم '٭' وو پا‎ .. West Bengal Act XVIL of 1956 .. 6 
87718 June, 1956. পা ১4 


1 001৮8) ۱ ধু ১৪ 15603, dated the 26 01৮৮০ 20 6ط‎ West Bengal ০ Bodies (Elec. _۔.‎ 1557-1558 
se 0+ Fane 1956, ۱ ae toral Offences and Rodi (Bloc. 0 
৮ ৃ 3 ۱ ۱ ۱ 00958810228) (Amendment) Bill, 1956, 


AT (I)  .. No. 11262L.A. and 4 Land and Land Revenue °.. Acquisition » 007 i 
ا سو‎ tlhe | : سم‎ of lend 7 60 


3৪ ۷۸ ‘No. 1684L., 9 Legislative. .. © 1. The West al Criminal Law . ×86" وقوا‎ × 
eee June 1956, 00 | | Amendment Bill, 1956. ise . 


90011. No. 11442... dated the Laendand Lend Revenue .. Acquisiti Burdwan ‘ 
F ৪ Fume 1960.. 06 ٠ সদা ee 


এ ক Now, 4973-4974P., dated ‘the Home (Political) ہی‎ Directing that the orders of the Sub- 1565-156 
8 ٦ স্ব গার ০1 03 0 ۱ পপি Magistrate, তা Santer | a 
لپ بب‎ ۹ ۹۳ 1118 18:71 11 section 14, Procedure 
ا ھ08‎ ; 1 Code, 1000৮ on 
ا‎ a | ۱ | 198K and. 29th Fe ایوہ‎ 


4 


3 রী... 1956 کت‎ ৃ 
ا‎ August areas 2৮ 
therein. \ 0 


ules, 1068 ‘Tanda ‘under টে 
Act: ape of হা 


2668 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 {Marr 1 
CONTENTS; 
PART I.—Ord রা হরর اش ا‎ 
می جج‎ উনি ہے 600 سس یں س6ا‎ PART IVB.—Bills introduced in tho West 
Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Bengal Legislative Council; Reports of 
Government Treasury, etc. 7 .. 2667—2761 Select Committees prosented or to be 
PART IA.—Orders and notifications of the Coe to that Council; and Bills published 
Government of India, oman سوا او‎ fore introduction in that Council a Nil 
of tho Election Commission, ia, and other yy. 
Election notifications published for general 7 
information. Orders and notifications which আলিকে ১ sy কানা 
have originally been published in the “Gazet 07 
of India” are only republished ». 285—291 The Indian Red Cross Society (Amendment) 
Act, 1956 a os .. 179-8 
PART IB.—Educational Notices 4238—439 ۱ : 
PART VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of 
PART Il.—Advortisemonts, notices .. .. 319+ $25 India; Reports of Seloct Committees presented 
to Parliament; and Bills published before 
PART IJI.—Aots of the West Bengal Logisla- a introduction in Parliament 2 a Nil 
ture ei os oe ৪৬ 
SUPPLEMENT No. 28— 
PART IIIA.—Ordinanoes promulgated by the ہودی سو می جو جس بے‎ 
Governor of West Bengal under the Consti- aA y ; 9৪ রে an 2 ) اط‎ এ 98 
tution of India vet 7 -7 Nil নিন a or the week ending t 8th June 20۸ 
PART IV A.— Bills introduced in the Weat List of Government Promissor এ 
ہو جید‎ y Notes, ٥ام ر‎ in 
Bengal Legislative Assembly: Reporte “i the Custody of the Reserve Bank of India, 
سو کن ا یت‎ সদা پا‎ oe Calcutta, on tho 3lat December 1955 .. 403-717 
[৯৫ before introduction এ Assembly Nil Calcutta Improvement Trust—Notification .. 478 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 


۴ সলাত 


গ্বরাষ্দ্র বিভাগ । 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


সাধারণ শাসন। 


General Administration 
নং ২৬৭১জি,এ। 
No. 26110... 

[নিয়োগ ও বদলা । 
Appointments and Transfers. 
সাহারণ। 

General. 

Bankura.—No. 2569G.A.—2nd July 1956.—The 
Governor has been pleased to appoint 
Shri Pramatha Kumar Chatterjee, Sub-Magistrate 
and Sub-Collector, Bankura, temporarily to have 
charge of the Sadar subdivision of that district 
during the period of absence on leave of 
Shri Subodh Chandra Banerji, Sub-Magistrate and 
Sub-Collector. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. (۰ RAY, Chief Secy. 


নদয়া-বশরভূম IAAL ২২৪/জী,এ।৩এল-১৬।৫৬।--২৯শে oT SAY | 
WN জেলার ERT উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীভোলানাথ মখো- 


সীবীর ART সদরে নব হইলেন 


Nadia-Birbhum. — No. 2248G.A./3L-16/56. — 
9th June 1966.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Bholanath Mukherjee, Deputy Magis- 
‘rate and Deputy Collector, on probation, Nadia, 
0 be a Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector, 
yn probation in the Birbhum district and to post 


him to the headquarters station of that district. 


বীরভূম-কুচাবছার ay ২২৪৯জি,এ।৩এল-১৬।৫৬।-২৯শে দন 
وو‎ বীরভূম جج‎ wan উপ-শাসক ও ٢ তৃপ্তি 


প্রকাশ নন্দে কুচাবহার জেলার সদরে ۳.۳ হইলেন। 


Birbhum-Cooch Behar.—No. 2249G.A. /3L-16 /56. 
_ 209 June 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Lela Tripti Prokash Nanday, Sub- 
Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, 


Treasury, etc. 


Birbhum, to be a Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector in the Couch Behar district and 

٠ post him to the headquarters station of that 
istrict, 


কুচাবহার-২৪-পরগনা।-নং ২২৫০জ,এ।৩এল-১৬।৫৬।--২৯শে জন 
১৯৫৬।-কুচবিহার জেলার উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীসকীত কুমার ۴۹ 
২৪-পরগনা জেলার বাঁসরহাটে নিঘূন্ত হইলেন। 


Cooch Behar-24-Parganas.—No. 2250G.A./3L- 
16/56.—29th June 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to appoint Shri Sukriti Kumar Chanda, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector, Cooch Behar, to 
be a Deputy M 0.0 and Deputy Collector in 
the 24-Parganas district and to post him-to the 
Basirhat subdivision of that district. 


২৪-পরগনা নং ২৫৬৮জ,এ।--১ডি-৩।৫৬।--২য়া জুলাই ۵۱ند‎ 
--২৪-পরগনা জেলার আলপরের উপ-শাসফ ও সমাহর্তা 7> 
ط×‎ Ce জেলার ডায়মণ্ডহারযারে ۹۹ হইলেন। 


24-Parganas. -ے‎ No. 286080.4..111)-8166. — 
2nd July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
transfer Shri Gour Chandra Mallick, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector, Alipore, 4 
Parganas, to the Diamond Harbour subdivision of 
that district. 


810۱ 
Police 
কলিকাতা ।-নং ২৫৬০জি,এ।৩1প-১1৫৬--২৯শে জন ১৯৫৬।- 
পাশ্চমবঙ্চোর চার শাখার উপ-আরক্ষাধ্ক্ষ শ্রীলক্ষমীনারায়ণ মূখার্জ 
কার্যভার গ্রহণের তাঁর হইতে নিজ কর্মের সাঁহত পাশ্চমবঞ্চোর চার 
শাখার বশেষ সহায়ক 1۳۴ হইলেন। 


Calcutta.—No. 2660G.A./3P-1/66.—29th June 
1956.—The Governor is leased to ۰7ء‎ 
Shri Lakshmi Narayan Mukherjee, Deputy 
Superintendent of Police, Intelligence Branch; 
West Bengal, as a Special Assistant, Intelligene 
Branch, West Bengal, in addition to his own 00618 
with effect from the date on which he assume 


charge. 
By order of the Governor, 
গা. GHOSH, Under × 7 


অন্যতম সহ-নগর- 


A. /8P-7/56.—3re July‏ کت ال الو 
Governor pleased to appoint‏ . ٥7ے‏ 50 ۴ 
he ‘Sudhir “Chandra. রড, an Inspector of‏ 
he —Calbeutta Police,’ to act, until further orders,‏ 
an “Assistant ۱ Commissioner of Police, Calcutta,‏ 


vith effect, som the date of his joining the post. 


1777 By order of the Governor, 
ا‎ haan ٠ 5. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


1 ۱ ۷۰ J ۱ নি 1 ৮ ) 

wi ام‎ it تپ‎ mtn 
> 1 ۳۷۔1‎ 08*08 7 1 1 

٠ یم‎ a ۱ নী j 7 ھ۸‎ 


4 11778 نت‎ 
81174555৮7৬, 
General. 


a ২২৫১জ)এ (৩এল-১৮1৫৬ ।--২৯শে 7 ১৯৫৬ ।--অবর উপ- 

5 ও NEST শ্লীনশরেন্দ্র নাথ ٭‎ 90۴ পাঁশ্চমব্গ কৃত্যক নিয়গা- 

rata (১ম খণ্ড) ১৮৪(খ)২) সংখ্যক নিয়মানসারে ৩১শে মে ১৯৫৬ 

WHC ১৯৫১জ,এ, প্রজ্ঞাপনে ANAS Ba ALG ৯২৩শে মে 

৯৯৫৬ তাঁরখ হইতে ১৯শে জুন ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ ک0‎ পুরা গড় বেতনে 
ছাট মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


A. /8L-18/56.—29th June 1956.—‏ .22510 رما 
‘he Governor is pleased to allow Shri Nirendra‏ 1 
Nath Kanungo, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-‏ 
Deputy Collector, leave on average pay for the‏ 
from the 28rd May 1956 to the 19th June‏ 27190 
under rule 184(b)(1i) of the West Bengal‏ .956 
ervice Rules, Part I, in extension of the leave‏ 
ranted to him under the orders contained in this‏ 
epartment letter No. 1951G.A., dated the 3lst‏ 
May: 1956.‏ 


২৪ ৪-পরগনা ।--নং ২৫৭৫জি,এ।৩এল-২৩ 1৫৬।--৩রা জুলাই ৯৯৫৬। 

“পরগনা জেলার বাঁসরহাট মহকুমার সন্দেশখালর অবর উপ-শাসক‏ اچ 

ইটা মণ্ডলাধকারকরূপে নিষ্যন্ত শ্রীরাঁজত, কুমার গাঙ্গুলশীকে 

gure 'নিয়মাব্লীর (৯ম খণ্ড) ৯৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক 'নয়মান্‌সারে 

৯৯শে মে ১৯৫৬ Say হইতে ১লা জুন ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ পর্যন্ত 986 
মঞ্জুর করা হইল. 


| 24-Parganas. — No. | 
004 July 1956.—The Governor was p 
Shri Ranjit Kumar Ganguly, Sub-Deputy Magis- 
ate and Sub-Deputy Collector and Special Circle 
Of ficer, Sandeshkhali, Basirhat,  24-Parganas, 


Q575G..A. [31-23/56. کت‎ 


to the lst June 1956 under rule 10701) of the West 
7 peel | Service موی‎ Pert ا‎ 


0 TAT 
“Police. 


| নং বং ২২১াজএ৬এল-১ 1৫৬ টব জুন ৯৯৫৬ 6 


Be উর Serre 


Superintendent of Police, — 


eased to allow — 


earned leave for the ١ from the 19th May 1956 


er Ar for 
0 the 2196. کت‎ 


‘Howrah, .وک2‎ ' a 80. 0. 100, 00 2 
1956. 1751, ‘Gover or is pleased 6ا‎ allow 
‘Shri Tinkari Das, ۰ By پور اق‎ Additional 
Howrah, earned leave 
for forty-two days. under rule 110) of the All India 
Services (Leave) Rules, 1955, with effect from the 
ihe June 1956 or oy ‘subsequent date of availing 
the CAVE, 6 ٦ 


| ap 0 By, order of the Governor, 
۰ GHOSH, Under کہ‎ 


٠ 11 

Political 
- NOTIFICATION ... ۰7 

নং ৪৯১৮প।৯টি-২৯1৬৫।--২৬শে জুন ৯৯৫৬ ।-_-রাজাপাল সরকারের 
বাংলা অনুবাদক শ্রীপতঞ্জাঁল ভট্রাচার্যকে তাঁহার অবসর গ্রহণের তাঁরখ 
২১শে জুলাই ১৯৫৬ হইতে, 'তাঁন বর্তমানে যে পদে 'নিযুন্ত আছেন সেই 
পদে এক বৎসর চার মাসের জন্য পানরায় নিযুক্ত কারলেন। ইহার মধ্যে 

শেষ চাঁর মাস তিনি ছাঁটিতে থাঁকবেন। ۱ 


No. 4918P. /9T-21 /65.—26th June 1956.—'The 
Governor is pleased to reappoint Shri Patanjali 
Bhattacharjya, Bengali Translator to Government, 
in the same post for a period of one year and four 
months, with effect from the 2180 July 1956, the 
date. on which he is due to retire on super. : 
annuation, the last four months’ being اہ‎ to 
him in lieu of the refused leave. | 


By onder of thes (yovernor, 
S. DUTT-MAZUMDAR, Dy. Secy. 


POLICE DIRECTORATE 


Orders by the Inspector-General of Police 
West Bengal 

No. 5343A.—25th June 1956. —_Nadia-Murshida- 
bad.——Sub-Inspector Phanindra Nath Aich of 
Murshidabad is in vg interest of public service 

appointed to act as , Reserve Office Inspector at 

owrah, vice Shri ftamesh Chandra N ag, Pro- 
bationary Reserve Office Inspector, Howrah, placed 
under suspension, 


50 join immediately. 
1560 STROAR, chin -Genl. 


: শ্াশীাাশী . 


‘Transport _ 


ORDER 


No. 3478W.T.—25th June - 1956.—In exercise oe 
the power conferred by the 97 proviso to sub- 
rule (c) of rule 6 of the Bengal Motor Vehicles 
Rules, 1940, published with notification No. 1930- 
Pl., dated the 2ist September 1940, as sub 


ly amended, the Governor is pleased here 00 7 


exempt from the payment of the fees payable for 
the Test of Competence to drive motor vehicles, 
shes pereons corr amp in the schedule below, | 


৫ 75901790819. 


1 7 ‘Phe. ich Commissioner : hae? ‘th ۶٤ United | 
Kingdom in India at Calcutta and the ‘following 


personnel belonging to the High Commission: 1 60m : 
cerned, namely :— 8 


09). Deputy “High Commissioners, We : oF ٰ | Pout 
(0) Counsellors, — Seid 2788 
8 ال‎ পি 


2670 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Varr I 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 3800W.T.—10th July 1956.—The following 


draft of amendment which, in exercise of the power 
conferred by sub-section Ob and, in particular, by 
clause (za) of sub-section (2), of section 68 of the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (1V of 1939), the 
Governor proposes to make in the Bengal Motor 
Vehicles Rules, 1940, published with notification 
No. 1930P1., dated the 2lst September 1940, at 
pages 2655-2829 of Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 
of the 10th October 1940, as subsequently amended, 
is hereby published, as required by sub-section (1) 
of section 133 of the said Act, for the information 
of persons likely to be affected thereby. 


2. The draft amendment will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 20th July 1956, and 
any objection or suggestion with respect thereto 
which may be received by the undersigned before 
that date shall be considered : 


Draft Amendment 


After rule 67A of the said rules, add the follow- 
ing new rule, namely :— 


“67B. Conveyance of long dastance goods 
trafic by private or public carrters.—Subject to the 
provisions of clause (9) of sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 43 of the Act, the State Government may 
restrict throughout the State or in any area or on 
any route within the State, the conveyance of all 
or any of the following classes of goods, by private 
or public carriers, namely : 


(a) Tea and tea garden stores, 

(b) Cardamom, 

(c) Salt, 

(d) Oil of any kind or variety whatsoever, 
(e) Seed potatoes, and 


(f) Any other goods as may be deemed 
necessary. 


\ 
By order of the Governor, 
J. N. TALUKDAR, Secy. 


DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No 64d3/11-36/56-720th June 1956.—The 
Governor was pleased to grant Shri Sunil Chanra 
Mukhopadhyay, 45881860076 Engineer, under Design 
Division of the Construction Board, earned leave 
for twenty-two days with effect from the 0 
M rth June 1956 in terms of rule 168(1) of 
the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


No. 5343/CB/1L-81/55.—22nd June 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to cancel the orders 
contained in Development Department Notifica- 
tion No. 6471/1L-81 ee dated 10th October 1966, 
regarding grant of leave to Shri A. C. Mukher- 
jee, Assistant Engineer, Construction Board. 


No. 5477/1E-71/55.—25th June 1958.—The 
Governor is pleased to appomt Shri Hirendra 
Kumar Guha Thakurta, son of 91011 K. UL. Guha 
Thakurta, to act temporarily as an Understudy 
Engineer Mite for the Fishing trawlers under the 
Directorate of Fisheries, West Bengal, with effect 
from the date of his joining the post and _ until 
further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
H. DAS GUPTA, Asst. Secy. 


বিচার 1 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
নং ২৬৭ই'জি,এ। 


No. 2672G.A. 
WHT | 
Poweys. 
WATT :جج‎ ২২১৬জ,এ।২পি-৩৭।৫৬।-২৭শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-- 
বর্ধমান জেলার উপ-শাসক শ্রীতর্ধেন্দু শেখর নাগকে প্রথম শ্রেণীর শাসকের 
ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 


Burdwan.—No, 2216G.A. /2P-37/56.—27th June 
1956.—The Governor 1৪ pleased to vest 
Shri Ardhendu Sekhar Nag, Deputy Magistrate, 
Burdwan, with the powers of a Magistrate of the 
First Class. 


নঙীয়া-নং ২২১৯জ,এ।াপ-৩৬।৫৬।--২৭শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-- 
ফৌজদারী দণ্ডপ্রণালশ AISA ১৬৪৫১) ধারায় প্রদত্ত Wawra মহামান্য 
দেশপাল কর্তৃক ari সদরে 'দ্বিতীয় শ্রেণশর ক্ষমতাপ্রাপ্ত উপ-শাসক 
শ্রীসৃখময় গাঞ্গুলশকে উত্ত দণ্ডাবাঁধর চতুর্দশ পারচ্ছেদে বার্ণত কোন 
বিচারের পূর্বে অথবা পরে অনুসন্ধান কালে fate বা স্বীকাত গ্রহণ 
কারবার ক্ষমতা প্রদত্ত হইল। 


Nadia.—No. 2219G.A. /2P-36/ ee June 
1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 164 of the Criminal Proce- 
dure Code, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the Governor is 
pleased to empower Shri Sukhamoy Ganguli, 
Deputy Magistrate ond Magistrate of the Second 
Class, Nadia Sadar, to record any statement or con- 
fession made to him in the course of an investiga- 
tion under Chapter XIV of the said code or at any 
time afterwards before the commencement of the 
enquiry or trial, 


THT AL ২২৫খাজ,এ।ইাপি-৩৯1৫৬।--২৯শে জুন Soy নদশয়া 
জেলার অবেক্ষাধীন উপ-শাসক শ্রীঅশোক গোবিন্দ las তৃতীয় 
শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 


Nadia.—No. 2252G.A. /2P-39/56.—29th June 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri Asoke 
Gobinda Choudhury, Deputy Magistrate on pro- 
bation, Nadia, with the powers of a Magistrate of 
the Third Class. 


বীরভূম ।_নং ২৫৬১ ,5آ‎ ۱:۳۹۵ amt FM say 
.جج‎ জেপাব বর উপ-শাসক শ্রীলালা তৃপ্তি প্রকাশ নন্দেকে ছ্িতীয 
শ্রেণীর শাসকেন্স ক্ষমতা অর্পশ করা হইল। 


Birbhum.—No. 2961 0.4. /2P-41/56.—2nd July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri Lala 
ا‎ Prokash Nanday, Sub-Deputy Magistrate, 
Birbhum, with the powers of a Magistrate of the 
Second Class. : 


By order of the Governor, 


T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


রা 


Judicial 


Appointments and Transfers. 


Burdwan-Calcutta—No.  4039J.—23rd June 
1956.—The Governor is ‘pleased to appoint Shn 
Debabrata Dasa Gupta, Sub-Deputy Magistrate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector, Asansol, Burdwan, 10 
be Private Secretary to the Minister-in-charge of 
the Judicial Department. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. K. HAJARA, Secy. 


Caloutta.—No. 39013.—19th June 1956.—/ 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V al 
1898), the Governor is pleased to appoint Shr 


7 
if 


| الو 


a 
to. 817০ point ‘the » 
be. রাও. 


01 সি of one year 
h June (1 سن‎ 


| 88817. 19th June 1956.—In 
ower conferred by sub-section (2) 
the Foreign Exchange Regulation 
| ‘1947. , the Governor is pleased 
hi Bhusan Sarkar, Magistrate, 

he district of the 24- 


on “any person convicted of an 
| e under the said section. 


3990J.—22nd June 1956.— 

rescind, with effect‏ لی is ont‏ | رہ 

he date oe this notification, Notification 

a the 23rd October 1954, published 

Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of 

mber 1954, in so far as it relates to 

wers of a Magistrate of 

ass in ا‎ istrict of the 24-Parganas 

১3, মার Officer Shri 
uma 


—No. , 39913. 229৫ June 1950. 

1e power conferred by section 14 

minal | ‘Procedure, 1898. (Act V 
1890. to confer u 


1 
031 ee RY 


25 ‘Dep مسر‎ 
the. و‎ June 


کے 0 


(00835183868. اد‎ 
pres of the on 


Rist | Das, Sub- می‎ | 
of Jalp aiguri me سس‎ ig: 


“2672 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Pant 1 


۱ ۳ 


৯৯৯‏ مات تم مت تم مت ےت سے حم تس ےم ٹر تریس سشص سح چچح اچ 'شے۔ ےم ےمسپرسسےتد جح ہہت -ہ ترجہ 


IV of 1944), the Governor is pleased to wppoint 
Shri Debi Proganna Chatterjee, B.A.(Cal.), B. Com. 
(Manchester), f.8.A.A. (London), F.C.A., to be 
the Accountant Member of the Agricultural 
Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal under the said 
Act, for a further period of one year with effect 
from the 23rd June 1996. 


No. 1357F.T.—28rd June 1956.—The (Gov- 
-ernor ia pleased to appoint Shri Narendra Nath 
Guha Thakurta, Inspector of Agricultural 
Incomé-tax, West Bengal, to officiate tempo- 
rarily as Agricultural Income-tax Officer, Grade 
11, West Bengal, with effect from the date on 
0" he assumes charge, until 3lst December 
1956. 


No. 1858F.T.—23rd June 1956.—Shri Pran 
Gopal Joardar who has been acting as Agricul- 
tural Income-tax Ofhcer, Grade II, is reverted 
to the post of Inspector of Agricultural Income- 
tax, West Bengal, with effect from the date on 
which he makes over charge of the former post. 


By order of the Governor, 


DAS GUPTA, Secy.‏ .و 


a 
w 


DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 559Ex.—2lst June 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to post Shri Monilal Chatterjee, Super- 
intendent of Fixcise, Foreign Liquor Jranch, to 
24-Parganos with effect trom the date on which 
he takes over charge, vice Shri Basudev Bala 
appointed to act as Deputy Commissioner of 
Excise. 


This cancels the order contained 11) unotifica- 
tion No. 397Ex., daetd the 14th May 1956, post- 
ing him as Superintendent of Excise, Darjeeling. 


No. 560Ex.—21st June 1956.—The Governor 18 
pleased to re-employ Shri Luke S. Pradhan, retired 
Superintendent of Excise, in the same post for 
five months with effect from the 26th June 1996. 
On re-employment Shri Pradhan is posted ٥ 
Darjeeling. 


No. 580Ex.—26th June 1956.—In cxercise of 
the powers conferred by section 86 of the Bengal 
Excise Act, 1909 (Bengal Act V ot 1909), the 
(teyernor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ments, with effect from the lst May 1956, in the 
rules published with Notification No. 61۰. 
dated the 30th March 1915, as subsequently 
amended by Notification No. 94119.) dated the 
25th April 1956, published in the Calcutta Gazette 


Extraordinary, dated the 80th April 1956, 
namely :— 
Amendments 


1. In item (1) of Group B of 17018 I of 
rule 245 of the suid rules, omit the words 
‘‘exclusive of the shop at Boragachi” 
with the bracket. 


2. In_ item (2) of Group A of Table II of 
rule 245 of the said rules, omit the words 
‘‘nolice-station Uluberia’’? with the 
bracket. 


No, 581Ex.—26th June 1956,—-In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 27 of the Bengal 
Excise Act, 1909 (Bengal Act V_ of 1909), the 

॥ Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ments, with effect from the Ist May 1956, n the 
orders published with Notification No. 5GS.R., 
dated the 380th March 1915, aos subsequently 
amended by Notification No. 842Ex., dated the 
200) April 1956, published in the Caleutta Gazette 
Extraordinary, dated the 80th April 1956, 
namely : سے‎ 


Amendments 


1, Against items (6) and (7) of (9001) B of 
Table II of Order 26 of the enid orders, 
for the two brackets substitute one 

racket. 


2 In item (1) of Group B of Table I of 
Order 26 of the said orders, amit the 


words ‘‘exclusive of the shop at 
Boragachi” with the bracket. 
3. In item (2) of Group A of ble II of 


Order 26 of the said orders\ ۶زس‎ the 
words ‘“‘police-station Uluberia! with the 
bracket. ’ 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, ٠٥ہر‎ 


EXCISE DIRECTORATE 


NOTIFICATION. 
No. 18Kxc.—28 June 1956.—Shri Mohammad 


Haneef, Inspector of Excise, was granted an 
extension of earned leave for forty-five days from 
26th April 1956 to 9th June 1956 under rule 
167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


M. SEN, Commissioner. 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES, 
WEST BENGAL 


NOTFFICATIONS 


No. 5¥C.T,.—27th June 1956.—In pursuance 91 
the provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 27A of the 
Bengtl twales Tax Rules, 1941, it is notified for 
general information that the following 07 
forms have been reported to be lost, gestroyed oF 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whow 
these declaration forms were issued and are invalid 
for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1941, and Bengal Sales Tax 1101۶۸ : سے‎ 


Serial No. of the declaration Namo, address and registration 
formas reported to bo [dst, *certificato, number of the 
destroyed, or stolon. registered doaler to whom 

issued and from whom 109 

destroyed or stolen. 


(1) (2) 


Menara. Anandji Haridas & ٠ 
Ltd., 20 Maharshi Debendr® 
Road, Calcutta, BDII/4824- 


(1) A/l-~337412 


Parr T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2673 


wy i] 


سوا 


No. 56C.T.—27th June 1956.—In pursuance registered dealers together with a description of 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Benga] Finance the goods covered by their registration certificates 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act V1 of are published for general information :— 

1941), the following names and addresses of newly 


ferial Name of the deufer. Addressand chief place Additional No. anddate Goods for use 11) manufacture or Goods for teaalo. 
No. of business. lace of of registration in the execution of contracts. 
usiness , certificate, 
গু 
1 2 8 4 5 6 7 
1 Mahobir Bastralaya .. Sainthia, district Birbhum রি AS/1776A, 0۵ Dhutl, saree, shirtings, r -mad 
16-6-66. garmenta, ‘umbrella. 5০৪ 
2 Dhar & Co. .- §&. P. Market, Chitta- és AS/1777A, (1) Raw materials— Tea and sweetmeate. 
na district. Bur- 15-6-56. Tea, ghee, flour, spices. 
dw (2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 


and accessories. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption frum payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
নদ ey oa of the goods named 

elow : 


($) Tea, cooked food. 
(6) Curd and cold drinks. 


8 Messrs. Tara Hosiery .. 4 Sikdarpara Lane, Cal- a 75 1۸, a Raw materials. Ganji. 
outta, 18-1. 2) Plant, সা spare parte 
and accossories 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax |8 claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
4০ manufacture of the goods named 
below ১. 
(0 Ganji for sale. 
4 Messrs. Hari Knitting 80 Sir Hariram Goenka ee BDIT/2788A, (1) Raw materials ,ئن‎ 
Mills. Street, Calcutta. 16-4-0۰ (2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and 90098801168 
Provided that all goods for which 
ویک‎ exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below :— 
(6) Ganji for sale, ° 
& Mohendra Trading Co .. 8A and B Lower Raw- se BH/2808A wane Paper, board, jute, jute producta. 
0 don Street, Calcutta, 15-4-0. ود‎ ORNS سی ہت‎ 
6 Mckenzis Ltd, -» 19 Lake Temple Road, 7 BH/2809A, tie Bricks, sand, coment, steel, paint, 
Calcutta. 19-6-56. lime, doors, windows, gravel. 
7 Gour Chandra Karmakar 27/8 Ramkamal Street, ৬ BH/2810A, (1) Raw materials. cies 
& 0০, Calcutta. 19-6-56, (2) ا‎ টা spare parta 
and acceaso 


(3) Consumable stores, viz., acid. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for 086 in the actual process of 
00م‎ of the goods hamed 

ow ےس‎ 


($) Gold and silver ornaments 
and utensils. 


8 Anath Bandhu Hazra .. Changrabanda, district ° 
Couch Behar. 


9 Mishra Rice & Saw 10188181811 (Siliguri : 
Mills, Road), Cooch Behar. 


CB/519A, gave bags. 
Oe মন Tobacco leaf and gunny bags 


CB/520A, (1) Raw matarials. مت‎ 
16-۰ (2) Plant, 0 eg spare parts 
and acceasories 


Provided that all goods for which 
exomption from payment of 
sales (8 claimed are Intended 
for use in the السو‎ স্র of 
manufacture of goods named 

ow ےہ‎ 


রং 
| (6) Sized timber and fuel. 


10 Mabamaya Cabinate firm Bangchatra Road, Cooch + 02/5214, (1) Raw materials, Furniture. 
Behar. 16-6-56 (2) টুন সপ sparo parts 
aNd 9 


(3) Consumable atores, ٣۱۶۰, hard- 
ware goods, paint and colour, 


Provided that all goods for which 
শিবা tion from payment of 
aX 18 claimed aro Intended 
ma uso in the actual proceas of 
পদক of the goods named 
ow = 


۱ (t) Furniture. 
1) Shrikrishna Watoh Co. সত Road 09০০1 ve ee ৪৯৪ Watch clock and accesso rics, 


) ne ny OL/2738A (t) Raw matorials. Card-board, paper, thread 
12 Now Bengal সি বর, ui انا ,۰1,06 10۸05۸ بط سر ؟‎ ١ (2) een machinery, spare parts pasting wder and دا‎ 

and accessories cloth and raskin leather. 
Provided that all goods for which 
শিপ lon from payment of 
18 claimed are intended 
سج‎ use in the actual process of 
টি of the gooda named 


Gi) Binding of books. 


18 Hindustan Agency .. পার وه نا‎ Street, aa 94485” er Aton shat واج ما اہ اس‎ 
5 wood and insulation board, 


2074 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Parr I 


৬৬৬০০ 


on Name of the dealer, 


of business 11800 of of ie و سا‎ 
ق118(1(08‎ , certificate 
1 2 8 4 5 
14 Hanumanmal Jain 196 Cross Street, Calcutta ' 00 
(ground floor). 21-6-5 
15 Mesars. 2-2229 Devidas P-12 New Howrah Brid CSIII/2016A, 
& Sons Approach Road, Cal- 16-6-56. 
cutta, 
16 Sri Dadhimati Stores .. 14 Pagoyapatty Street, 08151239488, 
Calcutta (ground floor). 21-4-60. 
17 Hanuman Cloth Stores Siliguri -۰ “ss ۰ 03/688۸, 
16-6-56. 
18 Mesars. Eesence & Glass 66 Ezra Street, Calcutta se ILL /3146A, 
Ware Supply Ltd 19-6-56 
19 Messrs. Ranjan Mica 1 Retail a Road, es ¥HL/3147A, 
Industries. Caleu 19-6-56. 
20 Mesars. Joshi Easing 0 8 বাশ Street, Cal- ee 77 ر۱‎ 
(Private), L 10-6-66. 
21 Messrs. Lahiri & Sons .. 1 পা টস Street, on EL/3149A, 
Calica 19-6-56. 
22 Mesare Profulla Narayan P-14 Mission Row Exten- ae “ELYS1504, 
Hnogineering Co. sion, Caicutta. 19-6-56. 
23 Messrs. Bhawarilal 67 Howrah Road, Banda- aa HW/1706A, 
Binodilal ghat, Salkia, Howrah. 11-86-56. 
24 Mesars. Kalitarra Glass 71/8 جوا‎ Road, HW/1706A, 
Mould Works alkia, Howra 1506 
Private Ltd. 
25 Messrs. Howrah Forging 8/1 Ramkrishna Mandir Calcutta-1 1٢٢/195ت,‎ 
& Trading Co. Path, Howrah. 2552: 
26 Messrs. Nandikeswari 19183 Ramkrishna Mandir an HW/1708A, 
Iron Foundry Lid. ہے‎ Path, P. O. Howrah, 18-6-56, 
Howrah. 
27 Mesars. Engi- 8 Kaltprosad Chakravarty IW/1700A, 
sete Weve (Private) Lane, Kadamtolla, 20-6-56, 
Ltd. Howrah. 
28 Shalimar Steel Works এ Andul Koad, 7 ,ھ11910‎ 
Private Ltd. otanic 2, 20-0-0, 
Howrah. 
20 Himalaya Leather Works Kadamtala, Jalpaiguri. oe پر‎ i 
80 Calcutta Stores .» Basar Road, Nabadwip. oe KR/1710A, 
০৪ Nadla. 20-0-50. 
31 Kunda & Co. .۔‎ 12B Netaji Subhas Road, -۰ LB/2677A, 
Calcutta. 10-0. 


Addressand chief place Additional No.and date (30008 for use in manufacture or 


in the execution of contracts. 


(1) Raw materials 
(2 Bone machinery, spare parts, 


8ء 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from পাল of 
sales tax is claime intended 
for uee in the actual process of 
manufacture of the gvods 

named below :— 

(i) Glass moulds. 


(1) Raw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinery, 
parts and accessories, 


that all goods for which‏ ف0 
exemption from payment of‏ 
tax is claimed are intended‏ 88165 
for use in the actual prucesa of‏ 
manufacturing of the goods‏ 


apare 


pamed below سس‎ 
(6) Iron materials. 
0 ) Raw matorials. ৪৪ 
۲ سن‎ ৮৮৮৭ spare 


arte and 80098892168, 
Provided that ম্যাট goods for ای پا‎ 
سس‎ sg from payment of 
sales tax ia claimed are Intended 
for use in the actual process of 
পা of tho 80005179090 


bel Machinery and sundry 
castings and designs. 


(1) Raw materials, a 

(2) Plant, panel spare 

parts and acceswor! 

Provided that all ker for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax 15 claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
erga of the goods named 

OW ¢ 


(8) ہس‎ ta Mince and laboratory 


cab Bib on se “stop cook, gas 
cock, swan. 
(166) Neck cock. 


{ 3 Raw materials. 
2 bake rg শি 


Provided Te wall سی‎ পা? for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process 
of manufacture of the 7 
named below 

(i) Mechanloal al Jobs and fabri- 
cator of steel structure, 


Raw materials, tanned leather, 
leather sole, rubber sole, ore 
sole, fron nails, brasa nails, 
thread, lace, potrol, wax, ning 
cloth, rovided that all goods 
for ‘which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is clajmed, 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of mauufacture 
of leather ahoes. 


spare 


১৪ 


Goods for 108816. 


7 
Textile plece goods, 


Fine and heavy chemicals. 


Cloth. 


ee cloths, woollen cloth, 

goods, rubbor 80 ods, 
ail اک 0س‎ silk, umbrella, 
buttons, handloom cloth, ready ~ 
made garments, woollen good. 


Glass bottles, corks, caps, brushes, 
ampules and glass tubes, 


Mica. 
Raw rubber. 


Electrical goods and  porcolain 
wares, 


Machine tools, اسر‎ পি 
electrical motors, pares an 
acceasories. 


Ayurvedio medicines. 


Leather shoes, rubber, waterproof 
and canvas shoes, 


Hardware goods, cocoanut oll, 
caustic soda, suda-ash and sodi- 


bicarb. 

bid a Umestone 7 owder, 71 
سس اف ای‎ 17১1) 098, chinaclay 
etonite ال‎ caustic soda, 
soda-ash, leaching powder, zinc, 
chloride, alumintum crric, alumi- 
a sulphate, borax, copper 


hate, liquor ammuoia, 
nun sulphate, 


crystals, 
nium di¢xite, acid ٥ 
acid hydrochloric 18011 sulphuric, 
acid phosphoric, jute mill stores: 
cotton willl atoren, tea garden 
stores, hospital and laboratory 


requisites and papers. 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


2676 


ডি ০০০০০০ আরা 
পতাকা 


fart 11 
ঁ 
ifal Name of the dealer Address and chief place 
0. of business, 
6 
1 z 8 


32 Durga Sundar! Rice Mills Nayabazar, West Dinaj- 
Ltd. pur. 


398 Mesars. New Eastern 19/B/H/0 Canal Weat 
Morchandise. Road, Oaloutta-6. 


4 Messrs. Rakshit 
ers. 


& 108 Bowbazar Street, 
Broth Cal 


cutta. 


86 Mossrs. Avenue Cafe .. 58 Ohittaranjan Avenue, 
Oaloutta. 


86 Messrs. H. C. Chandra 60/2 Rakhal Ghose Lane, 
& Co. Caloutta. 


No. 670.T.—27th 


Serial Name ofthe dealer. Addressandchicfplaceot Ad 
9. business, 0 


1 2 8 


1 Deb Banjan Mukherjee Suri, Ditbhum 7 


لن 


2 )8( Rash Rehary Kesh Durgapur, Burdwan .. 
Madan Mohan Jesh 
or Rameswar Kesh 
hnanda Prosad 0 881). 


8 ہیی‎ Narayan Trading Salnthis, Birbhum .. 


June 1956.—In 


Additional 
lace of 
usiness, 


a 


No. and date 
of registration 


Guods for uso In man facture or 
inthe execution of contracts, 


certificate. 


5 


ME/429A, 
186-40. 


1২ দে 
16-6-66, 


SL/2975A, 
16-00 


,ھ870 
.19-40 


TL/2013A, 
18-0-66. 


1) Raw materials. 
2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and acceasories. 

(5) Consumable stores, .تا‎ 


addy. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
سو من‎ of the goods named 

plow i—~ 


({) Rice. 


spare 


(8) Consumable stores, 
glasy tubmygs, carton 
wooden cases, ox 
bellows, burners, ru 
and rubber sheet.4 

Provided that all woods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed{are Intended 
for use دا‎ the actual proccss 
of manufacture of the goods 
named below سے؛‎ 


(4) Glass ampules, test tubes, 
tablet tubes and laboratory 
glasswares for sale. 


viz., 
boxes, 
en 9৪, 
r tube, 


(1) Raw materials, 

(2) Plant, machincry, spare 
parta and acccssories, 

Provided that all goods for which 
ecemption from payment of 85168 
tax is claimed are intended for 
uso In the act 1 process of 
শা ofthe guods । med 

ow i— 


(i) Ornaments (gold and 
allver). 


0 Raw materials. 

2) Plant, machinery, spare 

¢ parts and acoessories. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exomption froin payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intend- 
ed for use in the actual process 
ot manufacture of the goods 
named below .— 


(6) Tea, cof cocoa and 
cooked food.” 


Raw materials, * 
Plant, machinery, sparo 
arts and accesseries. 

(8) Consuraable stores, viz., bam- 
boo, teak wood, hardware, 
painta and varnishes. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exomption from payment of 
sales tax isclalmed are Intended 
for use in the actual process of 
(ররর the gouds named 

ow سے‎ 


(6) Bamboo ladder. 
($$) Teak wood—Meter board 
boxes. 


(1) 
(2) 


6 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and ,addresses of registered 
ealers whose registrations under the Act were 


4 


ditlonal 
lace of 
business. 


uinended with effect from 


Goods for resale, 


7 


Kerosene oll, mustard oll, castor 
oll کت‎ oll, til ofl, ৮ 
sola, provisions, paper, 0 
betelnuts, 991: string, jute twine, 
tin (0. I. sheets), coal-tar, sagou, 
atrowroot, gur, bamboo mat, 
jute bags, নানি? 86005, ghee, 
vegetable producta, B. 8, soda, 
caustic soda, carbonate of 
ammonia, bleaching powder, 
biscuita, confectionery, chemi- 
cals, mustard sceds, timber, 


ADCO, اود رس‎ শারদ 
surg oods, hosp 9৫010) 
ments, a ae bottlea, wooden 
and velvot 008, 


روب 


Teak wood planks, 


the date noted against 


each of them and in respect of the particulars 


appearing in the different 


columns in the manner 


indicated against such particulars are published 
for general information :— 


No. and date Goods for uso In manufacture 


of rogiatration 


or in the exocution of the 


08۱۰ 001:8۰ 
5 6 
AS/1400A, (A) Asbestos es 
10-12-50. 
سی ,1ھ‎ 
26-0-41, 
۸۹/106 ر۱‎ 10) General merchandiso as 
ا‎ ۱ and when raquired for sale. 


(A) Sploes, cocoanut oil, rones, 
groundnut, catechu (kha- 
yor), tejpatta. 


Date of 
amend- 
ment. 


Goods for re-saleg, 


চা 16-6-56. 


18-6-66. 


১৪৪৪ 


20-6-56, 


2676 THE CAILUTTA GAZELTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr 1 


تن 


Serial Name uf tho dealer. Address and chiuf place Additional No. 8১৫ 8819 Goods for use in nianutacture or 09০৫ for resale. Dato of 
No. af business. ace of of rogistratiun§ تا‎ the oxocutiun of contracts. alnend. 
winess. certificate, ment. 


1 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 


4 Pastur Laboratories Ltd. 2 Cornwallis Street, Oal- -۰ BDI/16¢2A, (8) (1) Raw materials, che- ae 15-64-66. 
08৮69, 12-3-40. mioal, drugs. 

(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parta and 80001580169, 

(3) Consumable stores. 

Provided that all gooda for 
which exemption from 
payment of 89108 tax is 
claimed are intended for 
جا میں‎ the aotual process 
of manufacture of the 
goods named below :— 


(8) Modicines, 

(és) 81, 

(668) Injections and 

(fe) Toilet requirements 
or gale, 


or 

Chemicals, drugs and A, B, 0 
certified by the purchaslug 
dealer to be required for use 
in anv process in the 
manufacture of medicines, 
perfumeries, Injections 
nase toilet requisites tor 
sale. 


৪) A. T. Dev Private 21 Jhamapukur Lane, ৪৪ BDI/1020A, er নন -6-56, 
; “Lid for A. T. Dev Calcutta. 18-$-49, 15-6-56 


(8) Coats of Indian (8) 8 Canal Eaat Road oe 7100۸۰ ৯৭৩৬ نووا‎ 16.6-86. 
Private Ltd. or  Oaloutta, Jor 8/1 Canal 10-۰ 
Coats of India Ltd. East Road, Calcutta. 


7 (8) Senco Jewellers Pri- 106 UpperChitpur Road, Caloutta(1) BDI/132B, (8) (1) Raw materlals—Gold, ei ee 18-6-56. 
vate Ltd. for Senco — Calcutta. 27-11-51, allvor, stones. 
Jewellers td. (2) Plant, machinary, "006 
arts and accessories. 
3) Consumable stores. 
rovided that all goods for 
which exemption 18 claimed 
aro intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the gouds named 
below :—~ 


(¢) Gold and 
(ét) Silver ornaments for 
sale. 


for 
قاہ8‎ at حم‎ and ee 
certifie ® purc 
dealer to 4 স্পা for 
use in any process in the 
manufacture of gold and 
silver ornaments for salo. 


8 Gopinath Dey & Co. .. 27K Simla Road, Cal- te ,ھ7101‎ (5) (1) Kaw materlals—Grey টিন 19-6-66. 
: outta. 28-56-47. drilla, long cloth, buckets, 5 
buttons, thread, woollen 
goods, cotton textiles, 
manila and tissue paper. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
partes and accessories, 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
the payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended to be 
used in the actual process 
of manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 


($) Wearing apparels and 
(it) Envolops for sale, 


of 

Grey ৫11), long cloth, buckle, 
button, thread, woollen 
goods, cotton textiles and 
A, B, © certified by the 
purchasing dealer to be re. 
quired for use In any pro- 
(০1৪ in the manufacture of 
wearing apparels for sale. * 


9 (8) BK. DharPrivate 6 and 7 Fakir Chakra- Calcutta (1) BDI/4B, 7 যর 19-6-66. 
এ Jor .2ھ‎ K. Dhar, varty Lane, Calcutta. 24-09-41 


= 
8৪) & Co. .» 55 ভা 0, 10851891869 Street os BDI/2491 4 (8)(1) Raw materiale—heat- want 19-6-56. 
سس‎ ۶ Calcutta. 24-34. & ing element wires, pyro- 


metera, ingredients, requir- 
ed for the manufacture of 
electric furnaces and 
পানা apparat and 
ingredients an compo- 
nents required for manufac- 
ture of rallway stores. 

(2) Plant, machinery, spare 

505 and accessories. 

(8) Cangumable stores, 

Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of 8108 tax 18 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual proceas. 
of manufacture of goods 
named below :— 


81) 0৬০11%, 

iit) 86810] heating 
apparatys, 

(৮) Rail stores for 

8% 8৪19. 


۲ electric furnaces, 


or 

Heating element wires, pyro- 
meters aud A, B, OC certi- 
fied by the purchasing 
06810. to be required for 
use In any process In the 
manufacture of electrio 
furnaces, ovens and 6180. 
7 heating apparatus for 
8110. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2677 


টি ۹ 


Serial Name of tho (19810, Address .0؟3 8001806081 :01010101809 سك‎ 81১৫ 0866 Goode for use in manufacture or Goods for resale Date of 


No, of business. lace of of registration in the execution of contracts. amend- 
e 00181106098, certilicate. Dent. 


1 £ 3 4 6 8 7 8 


11 ا‎ Debendra Nath Oil 121 Raja Dobendra ree * BD1/736A, (8) (1) Raw materiale—mus- 


for Debendra Narayan Strect, 081. FO. eve 
Nath Sadiukhon. mite. ہپ یت‎ 25-0-41 tard seod with bags, لاہ‎ 


19-6-56, 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts and accessories. 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended for 
1050 ہا‎ the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 

} named below: — 


i? Mustard oll and 
it) 7৭ for sale. 


Mustard sced with bags, oll 
seeds and A, B, C certified 
by the purchasing dealer 
to bo required for use in 
any process In the manu- 
facture of mustard 011 and 
fertilizers for sale. 


12 Mosara. শা Import 204 7518 01701917078, [01011129094, "02 A) Sodium hydrosulphidea, ٭‎ 0-6-5 
Export Co. 8 پا ا‎ লা ‘ Pies 700 2 


18 )8( Messrs. Makhaniall D-15 Jagannath Ghat, T BDIL[/18A, eons 
a & Son (Private) Calcutta. 29182: 
2 for Meaern, Ma- 
81211 Dey & Sona, 
Ltd. 


৬৪৬৪৪ 11-6-56, 


14 Messrs. Biharilal سیب‎ 182 Cotton Btrect, Cal- ٠ মানে লক pace (A) Mabna 011, : palma oli,cloth 165-6-56, 
shankar. outta. 20-4-0. 


polang oil, white oll, mobil 


dhoona. 
16 Mossrs. Muriidhar Brijlal 74 Burtolla Street, Cal- 7 BDIT/11284, naka (A) Gold and abiver coins 15-6-56. 
cutta. 26-4-48. 
16 Messrs. Benares Kala (8S) 74 Burtolla Strect, Cal- 7 73107116794, ٥ ৪৪৪৯ 16-6-56. 
Bhandar. cutta, Sor P-18 Kalakar 10-2-48, 
Street, Calcutta. 
17 Measre. 8. N. Industria) my 402 Or হি Chit pore کو‎ (8) 00 দিনত 19-6-58. 
Corporation. cutta [ 7011/27384, 
in Canning ' Street, or 
Caloutta (000 ۸ 
21-0-65, ° 
18 Messrs. Krishna Trad- 161-1 Harrison Road, es OL/2726A, er (A) 0119, bucketa, 0. I. রি 19-6-56. 
ing Co. Calcutta, Room No. 53. ¥8-5-56, wire nail, hinges, 
inny bags, سد‎ 
cloth, jute twino, old news 
paper, handioom and mill- 
made cloth, woollen and 
hosiery goods, umbrella, 
dry 1 colr products, 
soda, nisada), borax, alum, 
catchu, jira, ajowan, methi, 
cardamom. 
19 ©) Bhagirath Saya 16 Tara Chand Dutta 2 CL/2487A, 00 یٹ‎ 21-0-۰ 
rain for 8 th Street, Calcutta. 28-0-8. 
Agarwal. 
20 (8) Abbas Tea Com- 80 Lower Chitporo Road, 7 0/0۸ ص2‎ Tea and packing materials for 6-ة-20‎ 
pany Private Ltd., for Caloutta. 8-80-41, packing tea. 
Abbas Tea Company, 
Ltd. 
21 Measrs. Sew Chandrai 65 Cotton Street, Calcutta 7٠ CSI/2660A, 5 ar Cotton seeds, umbrella, 16-4-56, 
Murlidhar. 24-12-64, fron rods and bands. 
22 (8 জিত ThePionecr 185 Canning Street, Cal- : CSITI/2511A as Te 10-06-56. 
ading Com ملا‎ (Pri. cutta. 28-0-6۰ 
vate), Ltd., ٹم‎ 8. 
The Pioneer Trading 
Oo., Ltd. : 
28 (8) Messrs. Tho Com- ٥ ClivéM®ow, Calcutta. 7 08100120188, টিন کے‎ 10-0, 
monwealth ۶ ‘ 10-4-64. 
Corporation ( Eee, 
td., for ۴۰ 
Conmmonwealth Tred. 
ing Corporation, Ltd. 
24 WMoesars. Victoria Gold 172 Harrison Road, is 14: (A) Copper aaa 15-4-6, 
Works. Calcutta. 21-4-56 
25 Mossra. Raj Kumar 1 Pageyapatty 8 re CSTV /2276A, হন (A) Aluminium 1089 ۔‎ 16-6-66. 
opidas, Calcutta 22-39-55. 
26 Messrs. Calcutta Marine (8) 180 Harrison Road, ea 50 you ৯৪৯৪ 21-6-56. 
Corporation, Calcutta, for 10 Clive 08119341258, 
Row, 008. or 
09177121898, 
21-9-64. 
27 ngCo. .. Kalimpo ۱ ay 10111۸, مو‎ (0) Base oliman stores, 18-68-66. 
Sarda Trading Kalimpong এ stationery goods. provialogn, 
(A) Imitation stores and 
rolled gald arnaments, (1118 
পি enamel ntenails, 
boot rage 011 cloth , ۵٥۰ 
ted table cloth thermos 
flask, yt powder, vam 
Itpatick, roow and naif 
polish, tooth pasie, key- 
21) pocket diaries, money 
bags, Se ae ھ‎ 
بش‎ Pipe, sane and 
on, nall cutter, foua- 
এটি pen, pencil, scent, 
safety razor, 186৬. 
knife and caskets, 
2% Gangablshan Chanao- alimpong ae as 101۸, রা Sliver coins oe 18-4-0, 
wall,. 18-10-41. 


2678 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr I 
এ Address and Additional No. and date Guods for use in manu- Date of 
Berial Name of the desler. chief place of lace of of রর facture or in the execution Goods for re-sale. amend- 
No. business. usiness. vertificate of contracts. ment, 
1 2 8 4 6 سے‎ 6 7 8 
9 امرس‎ Baghunath- Kalimpong ws es Dy کت ا‎ Silver coins, umbrella 18-6-56, 
i, ہمہ‎ , e 
80 Tozaram Indorsep Kalimpong ٦ ےم اج‎ Umbrella, tarpaulin ». 18-6-56. 
81 Mamchand Dehiram Rangbul (Bonada), Tungshung (8) 07 /804A, “a aa (D) Mowah, soap, clgarettes, 19-06-56. 
Darjeelin (1). mill-made cloth, haud- 
75117), 1002৫ cloth, cardamom, 
8-10-53, پا‎ inter drugs, paper, 
stationery. 
(A) Cloth, chill, umbrella, 
spices, groundnut. 
82 Murlidhar Mandanlall Siliguri 7 03/4, এরর (A) Exerolse books, slates, 19-0-66 
1-10-55. pencils, wares, lan- 
terns, chillies, (٥٥ء٥۰‎ 
batteries, candles, soda 
ash, cocoanut and cocoanut 
ou, kismis, groundnut and 
agarbatti. 
88 (8) M Central 70 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta ‘a EL/1605A, وو عو‎ 16-6-66. 
Motor arts and 16-0-47, 
Acceasories Co. 
(Private), Ltd. 
jor 
Messrs. Oentral Motor 
Parts and Accessories 
bd or 
34 Messrs National 1 and 2 Old Court House ih EL/183B, (1) Raw materials 77 18-0-6, 
Tobacco Co. of Indla, Corner, Calcutta. 18-7-49, (2) Plant, machinery, apare 
Ltd. parts and accessories. 
(8) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claizned 
are intended fur use in the 
actual process of manu- 
সি of the goods named 
7 (¢) Bitumen 11060 heasian 
bags and alkathene hee- 
sian bags. 
85 (8) Messrs. F. Racek and 657 Radhabazar Street, 5 EL/2618A, مہ‎ 0: 20-0-68. 
Co. (Private), Ltd. Calcutta. 17-7-62. 
or 
Messrs. F. Racek and 
.ہ0‎ Ltd. 
36 (8) Messrs. Lilico (Pri- 8 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta as EL/38003A, eose ৪৮৬৪৩ 20-6-56. 
vate), Ltd. 24-4-47, 
or 
Moasrs Lilico Ltd. 
Mesers J.uxminarayan 48 Garstin Place, oe HL/27014, (4 Raw materials নবীন es 21-۰ 
Cotton Mills Ltd. Calcutta. 4-2-68. (2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parta and 89068501188, 
(3) Consumable stores. 
Provided that al) goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is elaimed 
are Intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
below ;— 
+) cloth, 
{{) yarn, 
did) 00 kinds of textiles, 
cotton, cont, fuel, all kinds 
mills sto ہد‎ 
5 سم‎ tee raw materials, 
2 nt, machinery, apare 
ria, nocessories apd con- 
2۳ 
(8) গর pe plumbing 
matertals or fixtures re- 
মাত for construction, fit- 
ting out or ily of any سد‎ 
building certified by 
the purchasing dealer to be 
required for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of cloth, yarn, other kinds 
of textiles for sale. 
88 Messrs. Sun Beam (8) 2 Kumarpara Road, (D)How- (8) 7۷۴۲/17607۸, (D) and (0) মিলল 15-6-56, 
Foundry Co. Lilooah, Howrah, rah. or ॥ 
‘for OSIII/122B, 
185 pear Street, 8-38-48, 
Calout 
80 Messrs. Howrah Machi- 826 HBelilious oad, ae 09 (A) Rope pulley, 07 adop- و و‎ 20-00. 
nery Industries. Howrah. 0-09-55. ters, reducers 
40 (8) Mesars. Bree Lakhi 67 Howrah Road, How- is HW/1874A, yer চুর 20-6-66. 
Balt Works (Private), rah. 26-98-61. 
Ltd. 
Sor 
হা Salt Works 
41 (8) Mesara. ۶ City 76 Pa anoles Road, 7 HW/436A, ams مہم‎ 20-40-0 
Engineering Co. Howrah 22-72, 
(Private), Ltd., 
oT 
Mesara. Howrah ا‎ 
Bngineering Oo., L 
42 Mesers.8.K. Chodhury P._ 0. Alipurduar, 4 রর 9705, oe (A) Powerkero «» 18-6-66. 
and Co. Jalpaiguri. 12-50, 
48 Jasoda Nandan Kundu 67 English Bazar, Malda نون و‎ ge 8৮৪ (A) Toffee, chocolates, and 16-4-0 
and Sons. 6-55. lozenges. 
44 Kartick Chandra Basak 1118) 91 Bazar, Bi 21/48۸, ve (A) Sewing thread and button 16-0-50. 
a 7۔‎ 65 
Moahabir Stores 7 তি (A) Jeera, kalajgera, dhanla, 166-66. 
45 Ir fi Kaliagan), West Dinajpur As ML/419A, ۶ سیا ھی یی ا‎ 


damom, methl, লা, gujrati 
(chhoto elach), bara 61801), 


Part [1 


THE CAWCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


সপ্ত োজার 


rlal 


To. 


47 


۴8 


49 


50 


61 


62 


58 


56 


57 


60 


61 


Name of the dealer. 
usiness. 


2 8 


(8) Sreo Gopal Stores— Kalitala  Balurghat, 
Proprietor ; Sri Kahl- West Dinajpur. 
tluh Chandra Ghosh 
Roy 
Sor 
Sree Gopal Stores. ° 
The Popular Drug Houso, 4 Bhupendra Baau 
Ltd. Avenue, Calcutta. 
(8) Harima Engincer- 69/1 Belgachia Road, 
: Works (Private), Calcutta, 
৪ for 
Harima _ Engineering 
Works, Ltd. 
(8) Mahendra Nath 105 SHelgachia Road, 
Calcutta. 


Sardar and Oo., 
10” 


Mahendra Nath Sardar. 


Keshaw Prasad Kayan یپ‎ 6 Jadulal Mulllok 
8 


and Co. ne, Calcutta, 
e for 
9 Jogamohan Mullick 
Road, Calcutta. 
Messrs. Jalnath and Oo. ۶۰81 Mission Row Exten- 
sion, Calcutta. 
(9) Mcasrs. Profulla 80/2 Baitukhana Road, 
Box 08 568 Calcutta. 


Co. (Private), Ltd. 


for 
Mesars. FProfulla Box 
Manutacturing Co. 


হি (17986691166 and 40 8+٥۷٥ Lane, Calcutta-9 
১৬, 


(8) 6۰ 
Dhur and 
(Private), Ltd., 


or 
Mesers. U. N. Dhur and 
8018, 


(8) Messrs, L. M. Mook- 
erjee and Sons (Pri- 
vate), Ltd., 


or 
Messrs L. M. Mooker- 
jee and Sona, Ltd. 


0. N. 16 Bankim Chatterjee 
Sous Btreet, Calcutta. 


167, Dharmatolla Street, 
Calcutta. 


(9) Messrs. KH. Ghoseand $1 and 20 Mission Row 
Co. (Private), Ltd. Extension, Calcutta, 


or 
ari 13. Ghovw and Ca., 
td. 
ای‎ Lc tegla Ha lea? 
upply rporation 
(Private), Ltd., 


or 
Messra, Railway Supply 
Corporation, Ltd. 


Meesers. All-Bengal 165 College Street, Calcutta 
Teachers’ Association. 


10, Ganesh Chandra 
Avenue, Calcutta, 


(8) Messrs. Kinema 
Talkie 565 
Co. (Private), Ltd., 


or 
Messrs, Kinema Talkie 
امام‎ 00, 


24 Amherst Street, 0৮1. 
0৮6৬, 


(8) Mesars, K. 0. Ghosh 
7 005 (Private), 


eg for 
Messrs, K. ©. Ghosh 
and Oo., Ltd. 


Mesars. Timlr ۶۰‏ 8م 
Works (Private),‏ یر 


20 Collyge Siroct, Cal- 
outta. 


1 Chandney Approach, 
শেপার 


7 for 
Meesers. 11101 Printing 
Works, Ltd. 


lace of 76818088198 


usiness. certificate. 
5 ? 
@ 
es (3۸ 
9-2-51. 
(A)128/1 (5) SH/150B, 
Cornwallis ‘or 
Street, 81/1790, 
060. 20-12-50. 
eu 8H/1379A, 
88:30. 


(A)(1) Bara- 811/1182, 


aa 2-44-1۰ 
1 asirhat, 
= Hasna- 


d 
(4) Hingul- 
gan}. 


ae سی‎ ae 
or 
BDII/2552A, 
18-10-63, 
ee 81/40۰ 
18-9- 62. 


ae ا8‎ 2284A, 
16-8-51. 


BL/2862A, 
11-10-56. 


(8)5L/2108, 
or 

BL/841A. , 
4-8-48, 


A) Cal- 
7 (1). 


(A) Cal- 


81, 
cutta (1), 


7-65-47, 


2 8/2913۸, 
281 60. 


ve 814. 


ve 81./868 
8-10-41. 


a 81/1000۸, 
2 -6-60. 


8/88, 
28-91 ۰ 


ee 80۰ 


(8) Building or 


(A) 
(2) 
8) Consumable atores, 


Adgress and chief placeof Additional No. and date of Goods for use in manufao- 
b ture or in the execution of 


contracta, 


ووبجھ 


برق 


(70) Paper and 
{1) any other raw matertala, 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 


accesaories and con- 
aumable stores 
lumbing 


materials or fixtures re- 
ulred for construction, fit- 
ting out or repair of any 
building: certified by the 
porchasing dealer to be 
required for use in any 
proceas in tho manufacturo 
of books for sale. 
&) Raw materials, 
lant, machincry, spare 
rts and accessories, 


parts 


۱۷۱۸٥۵ that all goods for 
which exemption from 
paymont of sales tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use In the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below:—- 

(8) Books. 


(A) Ammon chloride, 


Goods for rosale. 


con: 
tainers, packing materials, 
alopathic medicine, coal- 
tur, gheo, cerenls and pul- 
ses, “ugar, sugatcandy, 
ر807‎ washing soap, coal, 

, Oll cakes, oll seeds, 
poppy seeds, sta- 


» tobacco, 
astes, tmatcher, asphalt, 
ron welght, salamac, jute 
seeds, rosine, all kinds of 
chemicals, I. 0. I. (India) 
(Private), Ltd., products. 


ee@pe 


Shellac 


Lime 


16-6-56. 


15-6-56. 


“19-0-0. 


19-0-55 


16-6-56. 


16-6-56. 


16-6-56. 


16-6-66, 


18-6-56, 


10-6-56" 


10-60-66, 


20-6-56. 


20-6-56, 


206-56, 


21-86-66. 


2680 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 196 [Tani I 


4 


ست ‏ ۔ سس سعبیمس+ہ|ج_ەہُپسےےؤةے‌ تب ےد লি‏ 


Address and Additional No. and date Goods for use In manu- ॥ Date of 
Serlal Name of the dealer, chict place of lace of of registration faocturo or in the execution Goods for re-sale. amende 
No, business. 0. certificate. of contracts, ment. 
2 2 8 4 5 6 7 8 
62 (8) 1091৭, Rup Mudra 4 New 15051১89201 Lane, 7 8/4, ; Ter ৪:৬8 21-0-0. 
(Private), Ltd, Calcutta. 16-5-52, 
or 
Messrs. Rupa Mudra, 
Ltd. 
68 Messrs. 6 .. ,7ھ‎ 108 8. Hoge Market, =e TL/1966A, save (A) ৪8118, woollen and cotton, 16-06-56, 
alcu ۰ 2 -8-66. piece-goods. 
04 (8) Meassra Arim Metal 82 European Asylum wie TL/1919A, وو دا‎ 10-4-6, 
"(0 (Private), Lane, Calcutta. +۰ 
ap for 
Messra Arim Metal 
10100590198, Ltd. 
65 Messrs, Elcctroplatera 41 Tangra Road, Calcutta ve TL/1868A, (8) (1) Raw materials wa وی‎ 21-0-6, 
and Furulehers 22-83-1050. (2) Plant, machinery, spare 
Syndicate. Parts acceasvrics. 
(3) Consumable stores, viz., 
electroplating chemicals, 
Polisk instruments, 
polishing materials, 
Provided tl.at all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of salos tax is 0 
aro intended for use in the 
actual , process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
Jow -ے:‎ 
Electroplating goods. 
‘oF 
Electroplating chemicals, 
Olishing materials, polish- 
ng instruments and any 
other raw materials, plant, 
machinery, spare par 
and accessories a 000. 
sumable stores, building 
or plumbing materials or 
fixtures, required for 
construction. fitting out or 
repair of any building: 
certified by the purchasing 
dealer to bo required for 
use in any process in the 
manufacture of  electro- 
plating goods for sale. 
66 (8) Mesers. Campb 1l’s 6/1 Sudder Street, 081" 7 TL/1146A, cen ا‎ 21-60. 
88110601578 (Private) 080, 80-7-48, 
eg oF 
Mesars 00 ۵۹ 
Mineral ر.ہ0)‎ Ltd. 
67 Messra Korah Vark' .. (9) 14 Mott Lane, Calcutta lie 212 ene ১৬০৬ 21-8-56. 
or = ٠۰ 
1968. Dharamtclla or 
Strect, Calcutta. 8/2469۸, 
2১-8-5৪, 
Explanatory notes.—Regarding the amend- culars of a registration have been amended :— 
66 9 
ments made, the follewing code letters have been 5 ہت ا‎ 
used to indicate the manner in which the parti- (S) means “Substitute”, 


No. 58C.T.—27th June 1956.—In pursuance the goods covered by their registration certificates 


of the 10105151079 of section 9 of the Bengal whose registrations under the Act were cancelled 


Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI 
of 1941), نام بی‎ names and addresses of with effect from the date noted against each of 


registered dealers together with a description of them are published for general information :— 
Address and Additional No. and date Goods for use In manu- Date of 
Berial Name of the dealer. chief place of place of of registration facture or in the execution Goods for re-sale. oancella- 
No. business. business. certificate. of contracts. tlon. 
1 2 8 4 5 6 7 8 
. 5. ہم‎ 18A Kabir Road, Kall- oa BH /408A ৪৩৪৬ Chemicals, lnseod ojl, 18-6-56 
رجہ تس کت‎ ghat, Calcutta. a 22-0-41: mineral, industrial oil, 


minerals, mineral products 
; and paints, general mer- 
chandiseo aa and when 


required. 
2 Lake Hosicry Mill .. 21 South End Park, 7 BH/82A, Yarn, thread, fabric, cotton, Occasional surplus yarn ., 18-6-56 
Calcutta. 16-2-42, plecegoods, button and 
A, 3B, certified by the 
purchasing dealer to be 
required for use In any 
process in the mapufacture 
of hosiery goods for sale. 
8 Sachinandean Sinha .. Mithapukur, Burdwan - سم 7ہ‎ নিন 'Coal and coke .. ne 20-6-56 
Co, .. 7111 Canning Btrect, we 08171128674, TT Btationory, 10001119011, tolleta, 18-6-56 
১: 04542 এ 80-12-49. শা crokery, provi- 
08, 
68217, ٠ 1156 Row, 0:1:٤ -۰ 00111/25414, (1) Raw materials. Timber, planks, packin 15-6-66 
. এনা যু কিনা ০০৪ 28-0-65 ১ Plant, machinery, spare boxes, nails for resale. 


arts, and accessories. 
sn tac (3) Consumable stores. 

ovided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax 8 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual proconss 
of manufacture of the 
goods named below :— ۰ 
(6) Packing boxes, manure, 


hree- 7 55 ہے‎ Splees and general merchan- 2176-66 
এ سض‎ এ 09 017 +0140 as and when required 
; for re-sale 
آاابا2 مع‎ gamcha, saree, lungi, 18-0 
? Friends Society ৭5 8৭101017016 Road, Howrah ae hela rt tl. & che, پش‎ 24701 ۱ 
otc., handloum and مللانص‎ 
গা made cloth, 
Explanatory notes.—Regarding ‘‘goods for use in (B) Plant, machinery, spare parts, accessories 
manufacture or in the execution of contracts’’ the and consumable atores. ۱ 
following code letters have been used to indicate (C) Building ond Plumbing materials ٢ 


the meanings noted against each :— fixtures required for construction, fiting gut 
(A) Other raw materials, . or repair of any building. 


Part T] 
2 


কাপ 
পাপ 


CORRIGENDUM AND ADDENDUM 
No. 5AC.T.—23rd June 1956.—Substitute ‘4 


Fairlie Place’’, instead of ‘Fairlie Place” under 
column 3 against the serial No. 16 of the noti- 
fication No. 30C.T., dated the 25th May 1965, 
published at page 2251 of the Calcutta Gazette 
(Part I), dated 9th June 1955. * 


Substitute the date 41-9-049 instead of 
“94.10-51’’ below the entry under column 5 
against the serial No. 17 of the abovementioned 
notification, 


Add the following entries against a new serial 
No. 42 of the abovementioned notification, at 
page 2202 :— 


2 8 4 6 6 7 8 
Mill Stores treet, 7-68-42. mpregna- 
a Belting Caloutta. ted heasian. 


A. ©. ROY, Commissioner. 


eae ee 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 6612/M.8C0-3/56. — 29th June 1956. —In 
exercise of the power conferred by section XI of 
the Cooch Behar Town Committee Act of 1903 
(Cooch Behar Act No. IV of 1903), the Governor, 
on the nomination of the Mekliganj Town Com- 
mittee, in the district of Cooch Behar, has heen 
000 to appoint Shri Sukumar Sen Gupta to 

e the Vice-Chairman of the said Town Committee 
for a period of one year with effect from the 1 
April 1956, 


By order of the Governor, 


N. M. BARDHAN, Jt. Secy. 


MEDICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
DEPARTMENT 


Medical 
NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. Med1.5233/11-24/56.—8th July 1956.— 
n pursuance of ৪07০48০6101), (2) of section 1 of 
the Sadar and Subdivisional Hospitals Act, 
1955 (West Bengal Act XX of 1955), the Gov- 
ernor is pleased hereby to appoint the 165th day 
of July 1956 as the date on which the said Act 
Shall] come into force. 


é 
By order of the Governor, 


D. N. CHAKRAVARTI, Secy. 


THE QALUULlaA 54219018110) JULY 12, 1996 2051 


08108/169-11101191016----10,. Medl./4749/Admn. / 
5A-17/56(K W).—19th June 1956.—The Governor 
was pleased to appoint De. Somesh Chandra 00051) 
M.Se., M.B.@al.), F.R.F.P.S. (Glas.), D.T.M. & 
IL. (Kdin,) of the West Bengal Medical and Tlealth 
Service, last posted on swpernumerary duty at the 
Medical College Hospitals, Calcutta, temporarily to 
act until further orders as Additional Civil Sur- 
(991, Midnapore, in the cadre of the West Bengal 
Higher Medical and Health Service (Grade 11) 
with effect from the date on which he jomed the 
post, vice Dr. N. ©. Das Gupta. 


24-Parganas-Darjeeling.—No. Med]. /4751/ 
N.H.S. /20K-6/56.—19th June 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor ia pleased to post Dr. Bhupendra Narayan 
Sinha, M.B. (Cal.), T.D.D. (Wales), of the West 
Bengul Medical and Health Service, Resident 
Medical Officer, Kanchrapara Tuberculosis ous- 
imtal, on supernumerary duty at the Victoria 
Hospital, Darjeeling, with effect from the date 
on which he joins the hospital. 


24.Parganas-West Dinajpur.—No. Medl. /4742/ 
D.H.S. /20K-6/56.—19th June 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to post Jr. (Mra.) Parimal Das, 
M.B., of the West Bengal Medical and Health 
Service, Resident Medical (Officer, Kanchrapara 
Tuberculosis Hospital, on supernumerary duty 
at the Sadar Hospital, Balurghat, with cffect from 
the date on which she joins her duties. 


4 


Murshidabad-Nadia.—No. Medl. /4838/D.H.S. / 
Admn. /2(11C)-97/55.—22nd June 1956.—The 
(Jovernor is pleased to appoint Pr. D. N. Bhatta- 
charjee, at present employed as the Superinten- 
dent, Islampur A. G. Hospital in the district of 
Murshidabad, temporarily to act until further 
orders as Medical Officer-in-charge of the Thana 
Health Centre at Santipur in the district of 
Nadia with effect from the date on which he 
takes over charge, vice Dr. 11. N. Datta, trang 
ferred. This cancels this department Notifica- 
tion No, Med]./1141/D.1.S./2(HC)-97/55, dated 
the 169) February 1956. — 


Calcutta.—No. Medl. /4903 /6L-17 /55.—25rd 
June 1956.—The Governor is pleased to re- 
employ Shri 9. C. Roy, M.A., W.B.C.S. (retired), 
Tor a further period of ten months with effect 
[rom the 8rd June 1956, viz., for the first six 
months as Assistant Secretary ini the Medical and 
Public Health Department and for the last four 
months on leave in lieu of the leave preparatory 
to retirement which was refused to him in the 
public interest, 


2. This  artially modifies this department 
Notification No. Med)./10776/6L-17/55, dated 
the 19th December 1985. 


Caicutta.—No. Medl./4921/D.H.S8. /18-61/56.— 


¥25th June 1956.—The Governor was pleased to 


appoint Dr. Dipti Sen of the West Bengal Medical 
and Health Service, Registrar, Lady Dufferin 
Victoria Hospital, Calcutta, temoprarily, to act, 
until further orders, as Resident Medical Officer, 
in the same institution, with effect {from 28th May 
1956, vice Dr. (Mrs.) Smriti Kana Roy. 


2682 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


اسیو 
اہ 


Calcutta.—No. Medl. /4922/D.H.S./18-91 /66.— 
25th June 1956.—The Governor was pleased ۵٥ 
appoint Dr. Basanti Chakravarty, Semior 
House Surgeon, Lady Dufferin Victoria Iospital, 
Caleutta, to act temporarily, until turther orders, 
مہ‎ an Assistant Surgeon, in the cadre of the West 
Bengal Medical and Health Service, and to post 
her as Registrar in the same institution, with effect 
from 28th May 1956, vice Dr. Dipti Sen 


Calcutta.—No. Medl./4962/D.H.S. /5A-4/56.— 
2th June 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint the following officers temporarily to act, 
until further orders, as Assistant Surgeons in the 
cadre of the West Bengal Medical ond Health 
Service und to allow them to continue in the posts 
as shown against each :— 


(i) Dr. Baidya Nath Chakravarty, M.B.B.S., 
D.G.0., son of Shri Ajit Dandhu 
Chakravarti— House see ع‎ to — the 


Associate Professor of Midwifery, 
Nilratan Sircar Medical College, 
Calcutta. 


(ii) Dr. Sisir Kumar Deb, M.B.B.S., son of 
late Naba Kumar Deb—House Surgeon, 
Seth Sukhlall Karnani Memorial Hiuspital, 
Calcutta. 


(iii) Dr. Amarendra Kamar, B.$c., M.B.B.S., 
son of Dr. Sreepati Kumar—dAssistant 
Surgeon, on supernumerary duty at the 
Medical College Hospitals, Calcutta. 


Calcutta.—No. Medl. /5099 / 28-50 /55.—29th 
June 1956.—The Governor was pleased to grant 
Dr. S. Sen, M.B., D.T.M., last employed as 
Assistant Professor of Protozoology, School of 
Tropical Medicine, Calcutta, earned leave pre- 
pargtory to retirement for the period from ihe Ist 
February 1954 to the 5th April 1954 under rule 
170(b) ot the West Bengal Service Rules (Part 1), 


Midnapore.—No. Medl./5100/D.H.S./Admn./ 
3R-1/56.—29th June 1956.—The Governor 1s 
pleased to appoint Dr. P. R. De, M.B., at 
present employed as the Medical Officer-in-charge 
of the Thana Health Centre at Hijli in the dis- 
trict of Midnapore, temporarily to act until further 
orders as Medical Officer-in-charge of the Thana 
Health Centre at Daspur in the same district 
with effect from the date on which he takes over 
charge, vice Dr. N. R. Mukherjee transferred. 


Midnapore.—No, Medl./5101/1).H.S. /Admni. / 
3R-1/56.—29th June 1996.—The Governor 8 
pleased to appoint Dr. N. BR. Mukherjee, 
M.B.B.S., at present employed as the Medical 
Officer-in-charge of the Thana Health Centre at 
Daspur in the district of Midnapore, temporarily 
to act until further orders as Medical Officer-in- 
charge of the Thana Health Centre at Hijli im the 
same district with effect from the date on which he 
tukes over charge, vice Dr. P. R. De transferred. 


By order of the Governor, 


N.C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


Public Health 


NOTIFICATIONS. 
Jalpaiguri.--No. P.H./2804/2A-24/65.Pt.11.— 


218٦ June 1956.—In exercise of the power con- 
ferred by section 9 of the Prevention of Food 
Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954), read with 
order No. P.11./619/2A-24/56, dated the 20th 7191). 
ruary 1956, made under the proviso to rule 8 of 
the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules, 1956, 
the Governor is pleased hereby to appoint Shri 
A. C. Sanyal, Food Inspector, Jalpaiguri Munici- 
ipality, who has no financial interest in the munu- 
tacture, import or sale of any article of food and 
who possesses the qualifications prescribed by the 
State Government of Bihar for appointment as 
Health Inspector, to be a Food Inspector for 
the purposes of the said Act, and assign to the ৪214 
Food Inapector the local area comprised in the 
Jalpaiguri Municipality within which the gaid 
Food Inspector shall exercise his powers. 


24-Parganas.—No. P.H./2321 /2R-28/56.—22nd 
June 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred 
by sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Epidemic 
Diseases Act, 1897 (III of 1897), the Governor is 
pleased to make the following amendment in the 
temporary regulations for the prevention and 
control of cholera in the municipal area of Basir- 
hat prescribed under the said Act and published 
with Notification No. P.H./ کی نت‎ 56, dated 
the 18th May 1906, at pages 1293 to 1299 of Part 
I of the Calcutta Gazette, Eatraordinary, dated 
the 2156 May 1956, namely :— 


Amendment. 


In the said regulations after regulation 47 the 
following regulation shall be added, namely :— 


“48. No person shall sell or offer for sale or 
keep, store or hawk about for sale any ice, 
ice-cream or uerated water unless the same 
has been manufactured by a firm duly 
licensed under the Calcutta Municipal Act, 
1951 (West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951), 
or the Bengal MunicipalAct, 1932 (Bengal 
Act XV of 1982).” 


Malida.—No. P.H./2322/2R-23/56.—22nd June 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases 
Act, 1897 (III of 1897), the Governor is pleased to 
make the following amendment in the temporary 
regulations for the prevention and contro] of 
cholera in the munievpal area of old Malda 
prescribed under the said Act and published with 
Notification No. P.IL./382/2R-4/56, dated the 2nd 
February 1956, at pages 189 to 196 of Part I of 
the Calcutta Gazette, Hatraordtnary, dated the 
9th Kebruary 1956, namely :— 


Amendment. 


In the said regulations after regulation 47 the 
following regulation shall he added, namely :— 


“48. No person shall 8611 or offer for sale or 
keep, store or hawk about for sale any ice, 
ice-cream or oerated water unless the same 
has been manufactured by a firm duly 
licensed under the Oaleutta Municipal Act, 
1991 (West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951), 
or the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 (Bengal 
Act XV of 1932)”. 


BP ant J] 


Malda.—No. P.H./202d/2R-23 /56.—22nd June 
956.—In exercise of jhe power conferred by 
ub-section (1) of section 2 of the Kpidemic 
senses Act, 1897 (111. of 1897), the Governor 
s pleased to make the following amendment in 
he temporary regulations for the prevention and 
৮0100] of cholera in the municipal area of 
‘nglish Bazar prescribed under the said Act and 
ublished with Notification No, P.H. /213/2R-2/56, 
dated the 16th January 1956 at pages 91 to 97 
بھ‎ Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, Ertraordinary, 

ated the 19th January 1956, namely: — 


Amendment. 


In the said regulations after regulation 47 the 
Ebllowing regulation shall be added, namely :— 


“48, No person shall sell or offer for sale or 
keep, store or hawk about for sale any ice, 
ice-cream or aernted water unless the same 
hus been manufactured by a firm duly 
licensed under the Culcutta বহি Act, 
1951 (West Bengal Act ۸۸۸111 of 1951), 
or the Bengal Municipal Act, 1982 (Bengal 
Act XV of 1932)”, 


No. P.31./2824/2R-23/56.—22nd June 1956. 

In exercise of the power  conterred by 
ub-section (1) of section 2 of the Epidemic 
)Yiseases Act, 1897 (IJ1 of 1897), the Governor 
s pleased to make the following amendment iu 

e temporary regulations for the prevention and 
ontrol of cholera an the municipal areas of 
abadwip, Tamluk, Kalna, Katwa and Howrah 
wrescribed under the said Act and published with 
ون اکا‎ No. 7 dated the 
2th April 1956, at pages 795(i) to 795(0) of Part I 
of the Calcutta Gazette, Eatraordinary, dated the 
18th April 1956, namely سے‎ 


Amendment. 


In, the said regulations after regulation 47 the 
llowing regulation shall be added, namely :— 


“48, No person shall sell or offer for sale or 
keep, store or hawk about for sale any 108, 
ice-cream or aerated water unless the same 
hus heen manufactured by × firm duly 
licensed under the Calcutta Municipal Act. 
1951 (West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951), 
or the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 (Bengal 
Act XV of 1932)”. 


P.H. /2408 /8L-15 /56.—‏ ۷ئ 
wth June 1956.—The Goveinor was pleased to‏ 
‘ant Dr. Sailendra Nath Cnaudhuri, Medical‏ 
ficer, Malaria Control Scheme, Murshidabad‏ 
orth), earned 19959 for thirteen days with effect‏ 
om ird May 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West‏ 
engal Service Rules, Part I.‏ 
This cancels this department notification‏ .2 
He ).H./1713/38L-16/56, dated the llth May‏ 


Calcutta. — No. P.Il./2421/2H-101/55. — ard 
uly 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
hri Surajit Nath Guha, 85.E., son of 
ri Mohendra Nath Guha, temporarily to act, 
atil further orders, as Aasistant Engineer, 
ommunity Development Projects, under the 
Jirectorate of Health Services (Public Health 
ingineering), West Bengal, with effect from the 
uta on which he takes over charge, ‘tice 
hri Pankaj Kumar Chatterjeg, appointed as 
ssistant Engineer, East Circle, 


TIE CARCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2289 


Hooghly.—No. P.H., [2422 /2K-101 /65.—3drd 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Ashoke Bijoy Dutta, B.Tech. (Hons.), 
aon of Shri Amulya Bhushan Dutta, temporarily 
to act, until further orders, ns Assistant Engineer, 
Bansberia Water Supply Scheme, under the 
Directorate of Health Services (Public Health 
Engineering), West Bengal, with effect from the 
date on which he joins the post. 


By order of the Governor, 


N. 0. KAR, Dy. Sety. 


DEPARTMENT OF WORKS AND BUILDINGS 


Establishment 
NOTIFICATION, 

No. 41.—28th June 1956.—Shri Dwurgadas 
Mukherjee, temporary Assistunt Engineer, is 
transferred, in the interest of public service, from 
ihe Balurghat Subdivision of the Jalpaiguri 
Construction J)ivision under the Northern 


Circle and tposted to the charge of the Darjeeling 
Subdivision of the Darjeeling Division under the 
same Circle, until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 


B. K. SINHA, Jt. Secy’ 


DIRECTORATE OF INDUSTRIES 


Orders by the Director of Industries, 
West Bengal 


ORDER 
No. 177.—drd July 1956.—Shri A. 8. Sarkar, 
Assistant Director of Industries (Cottage), West 
Bengal, is allowed earned leave for three weeks 
from 15th June 1956 to 5th July 1956 under 
rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I. 


B. 0. MALJAK, Director. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 3369Lab. /GQ/8A-24/65.—29th June 1966. 
—The Governor is pleased to replace the services 
of Dr. B. K. Bhattacharyya, employed as Judge, 
Industrial Tribunal, at the disposal of the Home 
(General Administration) Department of this Gov- 
ernment with effect from the 10th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. 6. 7. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2684 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 | 


শ্রম ۱ 
LABOUR DIRECTORATE 


কারখানা 1۱ 
Works Committee 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলণ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 
সংখ্যা ১১ডবালউ,স।--২০শে ك5‎ sacyl—sasa সালের বঙ্গীর 
.ہج مم‎ সংক্রান্ত নিয়মাবলশর ২এ নিয়মের (১২) উপ্পানয়ম 67 
হুগলণ জিলায় চন্দননগরে অবস্থিত গোল্দলপাড়া মিলের নবগাঁঠিত কারখানা 
সাঁমাতর সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের অবগাঁতর জনা অন প্রকাশিত হইল :- 


শ্রীমকমণ্ডলী "নর্বাচত সদস্যদের নাম। 
১। শ্রীসন্দর। 
২। শ্রীবীরেন নাথ। 
৩। শ্রীরাজারাম। 
৪1 শ্লীধন্কধার+। 
৫&। 83111۱ 
৬। শ্রীসুনীল 
৭। শ্রী 1۱ 
৮। 1۱ 


৯। শ্রীরাজ বাহাদুর । 


কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদসাদের নাম। 
১। শ্রী ব এল 11 
২। শ্রী পিকে 1۱ 
ot শ্রী fa ta ۱ 
8٠ শ্রী এস প মৃুখোপাধ্যায়। 
&| শ্রী এস ۴ 1 


৬। শ্লী আর mie 


No. 11W.C.—20th June 1956.—In pursuance of 
sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal Industrial 
Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the members 
constituting the Works Committee in the Gondal- 
para Mill, Chandernagore, Hooghly, ate hereby 
published for general information :— 


Names of the members clected by the workmen 
(1) Shri Sundar. 
(2) Shri Biren Nath. 
(3) Shri Rajaram. 
(4) Shri Dhanukdhari, 
(6) Shri Islamuddin. 


[Parr I 
جس ہت‎ পি কেউ تو‎ 
(6) Shri Sunil Chatterjee. 

¢ 
(7) Shri Gree Bhagaban. 
(8) Shri Provash. 
(9) Shri Raj Bahadur, 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 
(1) Shri B. L. Murarka, 
(2) Shri ۰. K. Mukherjee. 
(9) Shri B. B. Ghosh. 
(4) Shri 9. P. Mukherjee. 
(6) Shri S. K. Mukherjee. 
(0) Shn R. Shahi. 


সংখ্যা ৮৭6১)৫৩।৫৬ডবালউ,স।--১১ই war ১৯৫৬।--শ্রম 'অধিকারের 
২৫শে 51۹5 ১৯৫৩, তারিখের ৮৭ডবাঁলউ,স, সংখ্যক প্রজ্ঞাপনের ٥٣ 
সংপাঁরবর্তনে ২৪শে সেপ্টেম্বর ১৯৫৩ তারখের ক্পিকাতা ۶ 
প্রথম খণ্ডের ৩১৬৭ HOT প্রকাশিত মেসার্স বৃন্দাপানি টী এ্টেট, পোষ্ট 
আঁফস বাণারহাট, জলপাইগ্যাঁড় এর কারখানা সামীতর কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার 
মনোনীত সদস্য Tas আর, ম্যাকইনটোস এর নাম বিলোপ করা ۱ 
چب ین‎ কারখানার কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য মিঃ ইয়োমেন 
এর নাম সাধারণের অবগাঁতর জন্য অন্ন প্রকাশিত 11۱ 


No. 87(1)53/56W.C.—ll]th June 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 87W.C., dated 25th August 1963, 
published at page 3167, Part I, of the “Calcutta 
Gazette’, dated 24th September 1953, the name 
of Mr. R. MacIntosh, member nominated by the 
employers as their representative 60 the Works 
Committee in Messrs, Bundapani Tea Estute, post 
office Banarhat, Jalpaiguri, is hereby cancelled 
and in his place the name of Mr. Yeoman is pub- 
lished for general information os member 
nominated by the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা ২৫০৬)৫৪।৫৬ডবলি৬,দি।--৮ই WA ১৯৫৬।- শ্রম আঁধকারের 
ইরা নভেম্বর ১৯৫৪ তাঁরখের ২৫ডবলিউ,সি, সংখ্যক প্রজ্জাপনের 7+ 
সংপরিবর্তনে ২৫শে নভেম্বর ১৯৫৪ তাঁরখের কলিকাতা ۶7 
প্রথম খণ্ডের ৩৬৬৯ TWH ও ১৭ই ফেব্রুয়ার ১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের 8 
ঘোষপত্রে ১২ই opin ১৯৫৫ তারিখের ২৬৫১)৫৪1৫৫ডবালউীন, 
সংখ্যায় প্রকাশিত ٭ئ‎ মোশনারী ম্যানুফেকচারার্স কর্পোরেশন লিঃ, 
foo MPM গার্ডেনরীচ ت۳‎ কলিকাতা এর কারখানা সামাতর 
কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত গদস্োর স্থলে 'নম্নালাথত ہہ‎ 
সাধারণের অবগতির জন্য ST প্রকাঁশত ۱ 


পদের নাম। 
মিকানিফেল ইঞ্জিনিয়ার। 


কাহারজ্থলে। 
প্রডাকসন ۱ 


Part J] 


[শা CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2685 


...2ص سس ت حتھ ھت ٥‏ کسسستح ‏ اس تچ --صسصسصت شہش6جچچکٌہٌس-سصسٹ چس ستککککے۔وستٹےسٹٹچٹچٹککسۃ_ے۔ 


No.  25)6(54/566۲۷ .)٠.--قا(‎ June 
partial modificuiot of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 26W.C., dated 2nd November 
1954, published at page 3669, Part I, of «the 
“Caleutta Gazette’, dated 25th Novethber 1954, 
and notification No. 25(1)64/55W.C., dated 12th 
January 1955, published in the said ‘Calcutta 
Gazette’ on 17th February 1955, the following 
substitution in respect of the members nominated 
by the employers in the Works Committee of 
Messrs. Machinery Manufacturers Corporation, 
Lid., P61 Circular Garden Reach Road, Calcutta, 
is hereby published for genera] information : — 


1956.—In 


Designation lw place of— 


Mechanical Engineer. Production Engineer. 


সংখা ৬৩।২৬)৬২।৫৬ডবাঁলউ,স।--৮ই Gay ১৯৫৬।-শ্রম আধ- 
কারের ২৭শে ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫২ ভাঁরথের ৬৩।২।৫২ডবাঁলউ।ঁস, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞাপনের আধাশক সংপারবর্তনে ১৫ই জানুয়ার ১৯৫৩ তাত্রখের 
কালকাতা ١٢١۰۳ প্রথম খণ্ডের ১৩২ WIM ও ৭ই এ্রীপ্রল ১৯৫৫ 
তাঁরথের Se ঘোষপন্রের ১২ই মার্চ ১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের ৬৩।২৩)৫২।৫%- 
ডবাঁলউ,স, সংখ্যায় প্রকাশিত মেসার্স বাণাড়য়া কটন মিলস কোঃ লিঃ, 
বাওাঁড়য়া, হাওড়া এর কারখানা ASA কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য 
শ্রী বি. জি, কোথারে 5ی‎ নাম বিলোপ করা হইল। তংস্থলে Ss কারখানার 
কর্মনয়োগকর্তার মলোনশত সদস্য A এন, এম, প্রধান এর লাম সাধারণের 
GANGA জন্য অপর প্রকাশত হইল। 

No. 63/2(6)52/56W.C.—8th June 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 68/2/52W.C., dated 27th 
December 1952, published at page 132, Part I, of 
the ‘Calcutta Gazette’, dated 15th January 1953, 
and notificaion No. 63/2(3)52/55W.C., dated 12th 
March 1965, and published in the suid Gazette on 
7th April 1955, the name of Shri B. G. 
Kothare, member nominated by the employers as 
their representative to the Works Committee in 
Messrs. Bowreah Cotton Mills Co., Litd., 
Bowreah, Howrah, is hereby cancelled und in his 
place the name of Shri N. M. Pradhan is published 


for general information as member nominated by 
the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা 9৭৪০)৫৩1৫৬ডবাঁলউ,সি।--১২ই জুন ১৯৫৬।- শ্রম 6)7 
১৫ই Wat ১৯৫৩ তাঁরখের Asus PH, সংখ্যক প্রজ্ঞাপনের 7 
MAPS ১৬ই জুলাই ১৯৫৩ তারিখের কালকাতা ঘোষপত্রের প্রথম 
খণ্ডের ২৩০২ 5خ"‎ ও ৮ই ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের Se ۴۶ 
QE নভেম্বর ১৯৫৫ 517:۹7 ৭৪২)৫৩।৫৫ডবালউ,স, সংখ্যায় প্রকাঁশত 
মেসার্স "নয়া meter SY এগ্টেট, পোম্ট আফিস নাগ্রাকাটা, জলপাইগাড় 
এয় কারখানা সামাতির কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য মিঃ CH, এম, 
Brat] এর নাম বিলোপ করা হইল। তংস্থলে উত্ত কারখানার কর্ম- 
নিয়োগকর্তার মনোনশত সদসা মিঃ জে, বি, তিষ্বত এর নাম সাধারণের 
enter জনা আগ প্রকাশিত ۱ 


No. 74(3)68/56W.C.—12th June 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No, 74W.C., dated 15th June 1943, 
published at page 2302, Part I, of the ‘‘Calcutta 
(fazette’’, dated 16th July 1953, and notification 
No. 74(2)53/55W.C., dated 7th November 1958) 
published in the said Gazette on 8th December 
1965, the name of Mr. J. M. Curnow, member 
nominated by the employers as their representative 
to the Works Committee in Messrs. Nya ১০1০6 Tea 
Kstate, post office Nagrakata, Jalpaiguri, is hereby 
cancelled and in his place the name of Mr. J. B. 
Tebbutt is published for general information as 
member nominated by the employers to the suid 
Committee. 


সংখ্যা ১০৪৫১)৫৩।৫৬ডবালউ,স।--১৪ই জুন sacy lay আঁধ- 
কারের ১৭ই ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫৩ তাঁরখের ১০৪ডবলিউ,স, সংখ্যক প্রজ্ঞাপনের 
আংঁশক সংপারবর্তনে at জানুয়ারি ১১৫৪ তাঁরখের কাঁলকাতা ঘোষ- 
পন্রের প্রথম খণ্ডের ১৪ পৃষ্ঠায় প্রকাশিত মেসার্স আরাতি কটন মিলস fae, 
দাসনগর, হাওড়া এর কারখানা সাঁমাতর করম্শনয়োগকতার WATS সদমা 
শ্রীলক্ষীনারায়ণ গুলুই এর নাম [বিলোপ করা হইল। তংস্থলে oy 
কারখানার কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য শ্রীপারমল দাস এর নাম 
সাধারণের অবগাঁতর জন্য অন্র প্রকাশিত হইল। 


No. 104(1)53/56W.C.—14th June 1956.-—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 104W.C., dated 17th Necember 
1953, published at page 14, Part JT, of the 
“Calcutta Gazette’, dated 7th January 1954, the 
name of Shri Jakshinarayan (folui, member 
nominated by the employers as their representa- 
tive to the Works Committee in Messrs. 47511 
Cotton Mills, Ttd., Dassnagar, Howrah, is hereby 
cancelled and in his place the name of Shri Parimal 
Dass is published for general informotion aus 
member nominated by the employers to the said 
Committee. 


w 


সংখ্যা ২২।৩0৩)৫৫।৫৬ডবাঁলউণীস।-১১ই জুন ১৯৫৬।- শ্রম 
আঁধকারের ৫ই ফেব্রুয়ার ১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের ২২।৩।৫৫ডবালউ,স, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞাপনের আংশিক AMSA ২৪শে ফেব্রুয়ার ১৯৫৫ তারখের 
কাঁলকাতা ঘোষপর়ের প্রথম খন্ডের ৭২৭ TOA ও ২২শে ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫৫ 
তাঁরখের Ge ٥١۶77 ১লা ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫৫ তারিখের ২২।৩১)1৫৫- 
ডবালউ.সি, সংখ্যায় প্রকাঁশত মেসার্স, টিটাগড় জুট ফ্যাক্টরী (২নং নিল), 
টিটাগড়, ২৪-পরগনা এয় কারখানা 7 কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার, মনোনীত 
সদস্য মেসার্স জে, এম, গিলক্রাইন্ট, জে, এডামশন এবং এ, এ, এগো এর 
নাম বিলোপ করা হইল। তংস্থলে چب‎ কারখানার 6) 
মনোনশত সদস্য মেসার্স TH, এ, লো, TG, বোস এবং এ, এল, পৌঁন এর 


নাম সাধারণের অবগাতির জন্য অয প্রকাশিত ۱ 


2080 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[17501 I 


سے ک۱ کے ٛ0  ٛ‏ ا سج 1ج ج-ظ_٣_ٛٛ9ل9,‌ ‏ کت 57757555555 


No = 22/3(8)65/56W.C.—J1th June '956.-- In 
partial modification of the Labour Jiirectorate 
notification No. 22/3/55W.C., dated 5th Mebruary 
1955, published at page 727, Part I, of the 
‘Calcutta Gazette’, dated 24th February 1955, 
and notification No. 22/3(1)/55W.C., dated Ist 
Jecember 1955, published in the said Ce zelte on 
22nd December 1955, the names of Messrs. J. M. 
Gilchrist, J. Adamson and A. A. Eggo, members 
nominated by the employers as their representatives 
to the Works Committee in Messrs. TitagLur Jute 
Factory (No. 2 Mill), Titaghur, 24-Parganas, are 
hereby cancelled and in their places the names of 
Messrs. 0. A. Rollo, D. Bose and A. L. Penny are 
published for general information as members 
nominated by the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা ৩৪1২৫৪)৫৩1৫৬ডবাঁলউ,স।--১৪ই Wea ১৯৫৬।-_ শ্রম আাঁধ- 
কারের ১৫ই এীপ্রল ১৯৫৩ তাঁরখের ৩৪1২।৫৩ডবাঁলউ,স, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞাপনের আংশিক সংপাঁরবর্তনে ৭ই মে ১৯৫৩ তাঁরখের কাঁলকাত। 
ঘোবপন্রেব প্রথম খণ্ডের ১৪২১৯ AVM ও ২২শে মার্চ sacs তারিখের 
৩৪1২২)৫৩।৫৪ডবাঁলউ,ঁস, সংখ্যায় প্রকাশিত মেসার্স বাসন্তী কটন 
মিলস লিঃ, পানিহাটী, ২৪-পরগনা এর কারখানা সাঁমীতর কমীনয়োগ- 
BOM মনোনীত সদস্য ATA জ, এন, wearer’, 14, এস, কেরকার, 
؟‎ গুহঠাকুরতা এবং মিঃ এম, এফ, +۰۴ এর নাম বিলোপ করা ۱ 
তংস্থলে Be কারখানার কমণনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য ACH fee, সি, 
রাম, কে, সান্যাল, এ, কে, সরকার এবং বি, চ্যাটার্জ এর নাম সাধারণের 
অবগতির জন্য অন্ন প্রকাশিত ۱ 


আর, এন, বসব, 


2151-2111117۴ ۱ 


No. 34/2(4)53/56W.C.—14th June 1956,—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 34/2/53W.C., dated 15th April 
1958, published at page 1421, Part I, of the 
“Calcutta Gazette’, dated 7th May 1953, and 
notification No. 34/2(2)538/64W.C., dated 22nd 
March 1954, the names of Sarbashri G. N. 
Mukherjee, B. 9. Kerker, B. Guha Thakurta and 
Mr. M. F. Monk, members nominated by the 
employers as their representatives to the Works 
Committee in Messrs, Basanti Cotton Mills, 151. 
Panihati, 24-Parganas, are hereby cancelled and 
10 their places the names of Sarbashri G. C. Roy, 
K. Sanyal, A. K. Sarkar and B, Chatterjee are 
published for general information as members 
nominated hy the employers to the said Committee. 


R. N. B0SE, 


Labour Commissioner. 


Office of the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, 
West Bengal 


۱ NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 6911..—9th June 1956.—Whereaos I am of 


opinion, as the result of an enquiry held into the 
constitution, working and financial condition of the 
Berhampore Co-operative Stores Ltd. (Registered 
No. 247 of 1919) in the Berhampore subdivision 
of the district of Murshidabad, under sub-section 
(1) of section 84 of the Bengal Co-operative 
Societies Act, XXI of 1940, that the Society 
ought to be wound up. 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power confer- 
red by sub-section (1) of section 89 of the Bengal 
Co-operative Societies Act, 1940 (Bengal Act XXI 
of 1940), | hereby order the winding up of the 
said Society. 


And further, in exercise of the power conferred 
by section 90 of the said Act, I hereby appoint 
the Departmental Officer-in-charge of Liquidated 
Societies, Murshidabad district, to be Liquidator 
of the said Society, 


8. 0. SENGUPTA, Registrar. 


কিস 


No. 699L.—25th June 1956.—Whereas I am 
of opinion, as the result of an enquiry held into 
the constitution, working and financial condi- 
tion of the Bankura Bidi Froducers Oo-operative 
Society, Ltd. (Registered No. 2A of 1944), in 
the Bankura subdivision of the district of 
Bankura, under sub-section (1) of section 84 of 
the Bengal Co-operative Societies Act, 1940, that 
the Society ought to be wound up; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of section 89 of the 
Bengal Co-operative Societies Act, 1940 (Bengal 
Act XXI of 1940), I hereby order the the wind- 
ing up of the said Society. 

And further, in, exercise of the power con- 
ferred by section 90 of the said Act, I hereby 
appoint the Inspector of Co-operative Societies, 
Reconstitution and Dissolution, Bankura, to be 
Liquidator of the said Society. 


K. P. A. MENON, Registrar. 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 
Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATIONS. 
Burdwan,—No. 11838L.A.—6th July 1956.— 


The following agreement is published under sec- 
tion 42 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, for 


general information :— 


MEMORANDUM or AGREEMENT made this 
fifth day of July one thousand nine hundred and 


Part I] 
i 


THE 04 GAZETTE, JULY 6 2687 


২ ০৮০৮৮ 


fity-six لی یی‎ INDIAN 0:80 & 
ACETYLENE CO., PRIVATE LTD., o Company 


(registered under the Indian Companies Act, « 


1913) and having its registered offde at 
48/1 Diamond Harbour Road, Calcutta-27 (herein- 
after called ‘‘the Company’’) of the gne part anp 
THE GOVERNOR or tux STATE or WEST 
BENGAL (hereinafter called “the Governor”) of 
the other part. 


Wuerras for the purpose of the construction of 
‘Factory Buildings, Office and Staff Quarters the 
Company has applied to the Government of West 
Bengal for the acquisition under the provisions of 
the Jand Acquisition Act, 1894, of the piece or 
parcel of land containing 17.76 acres or thereabout 
situate in the villages of Gopalpur and 
Narasamuda, police-station Asansol, in the district 
of Burdwan and more particularly described in the 
schedule hereto and delineated in the plan* 
hereunto annexed. রী 


Anp ‘WHEREAS the said Government of West 
Rengal, being satisfied by an enquiry held under 
section 40 of the said Act that the proposed 
acquisition is needed for the aforesaid purpose and 
that the said work is likely to prove useful to the 
public, has consented to acquire on behalf of the 
Company the piece or parcel of land hereinbefore 


described. 


Anp wurreas the said Government of West 
Bengal has required the Company under the pro- 
visions of section 41 of the abovementioned Act to 
mter into the agreement with the Governor herein- 
২৮67 contained ; 


Now tis INDENTURE WITNESSETH that it is 
nereby agreed and declared as follows :— 


1. On demand the Company shall and will pay 
© the said Government of West Bengal all and 
‘very compensation in respect of the said land 
endered, paid or awarded or to be tendered, paid 
x awarded by the Collector unger the 14000 
Acquisition Act, 1894, or by Court to which a 
‘eference under Part LII of the said Act may be 
nade, or by the Courts to which an appeal from the 
ward of the said Court may be preferred and all 
10818) charges and expenses Of the proceedings 0 
he aforesaid Courts, or otherwise incidental to the 
‘ropused acquisition or payable in respect thereof 
inder the provisions of the said Act. 


®. On demand made by the said Collector the 
bligations of the Company under the last preced- 
ng cluuse not being thereby limited, the Company 
hall and will deposit with the said Collector such 
um or sums of money us in his discretion the said 
ollector may in anticipation estimate to be 
lecessary for the purposes mentioned in the last 
Tecading clause. 


*Not printed but may be inspected in the office 
! the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 


surdwan, 


3. On payment by the Company of all demands 
under the foregoing first clause, or, in the discre- 
tion of the said Government of West Bengal (on 
deposit by the Company of all estimated amounts 
us provided in the second clause), but not before 
posseasion shall have heen taken under the pro- 
visions of the abovementioned Act, the Governor 
shall make over possession of the said land to the 
Company and shall execute and do all such acts 
nnd deeds as may be necessary and proper for 
effectually vesting the same in the Company. 


4. The said land shall be held by the 
Company for the purposes of construction of 
factory buildings, office and staff quarters aa is 
hereinbefore mentioned and without the sanction 
in writing of the said Government of West Bengal 
first had and obtained for no other purpose 
whatsvever. 


5. The said construction of factory buildings, 
office and staff quarters shall be completed (and 
fully equipped in all respects ready for use) 
within three years from the date on which 
possession of the said Jand shall have been given 
to the Company. 


6. Should the eaid factory buildings, office and 
گناہ‎ quarters not be completed (and fully equipped 
in all respects ready for use) within the period 
stated in the last preceding clause or within such 
further period as in its discretion may be pres- 
cribed or allowed by the said Clovernment of West 
Bengal or should the said land at any time there- 
affer cease fur a period of twelve consecutive 
months, to be held and used or cease to be required 
for the purpose or purposes provided for in the 
foregoing fourth clause then and in any such case, 
the said Government may summarily re-enter upon 
and take possession of the said land together with 
all buildings thereon, whether such buildings were 
erected before or after transfer of the land to the 
Company, and thereupon the interest of the 


“Company in the said land and buildings shall 


absolutely ceuse and determine. 


7. On taking such possession the said Govern- 
ment may sell or otherwise deal with the said land 
and buiidings as it may think proper. 


(i) Should the said Government sell the land 
with the buildings the said Government 
after deducting the expenses incurred in 
connection with the said taking of 
possession and with such sale shall pay 
the proceeds to the Company. 


(ii) Should the said (Government decide not to 
rell the land and buildings, the said 
Government shall retain the said land and 
buildings thereon in which case the 
Governor shall repay to the Company the 
market-value دہ‎ on the day of re-eutry of 
nll the buildings erected by the Company 
and all sums received from the Company 


2688 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 f 


| Pani I 


টা হই 


in respect of all and every compensation 
as provided in the foregoing first clause 
(less the statutory allowance of 10 per 
cent, and less any amount received on 
account of trees and buildings which are 
not in existence at the time of resump- 
tion), but will not repay any sums paid 
and received on account of costs, charges 
and expenses. 


(iii) Should the said Government decide to sell 
the buildings only upon such sale, the 
Governor shall, after deducting the 
expenses of taking possession and selling, 
pay the balance of the proceeds of sale to 
the Company together with the sum 
received from the Company in respect of 
the compensation for the land (1698 the 
statutory allowance of 15 per cent. and 
less any amount received from the Com- 
pany on account of trees and buildings 
which are not-in existence at the time of 
resumption), but will not repay any sum 
paid and received on account of costs, 
charges and expenses. 


8. The public shall be entitled to use the said 
construction on the following terms :— 


(a) There will be made available to the public: 
increased facilities for training as well as 
for employment in the factory. 


(b) In making appointments, preference shall 
be given to the permanent residents of 
West Bengal. 


(c) The Company shall provide dwelling houses 
and other amenities for the workers of the 
factory. 


(d) The Company shall continue their existing 
practice of giving every yeor free train- 
ing in welding for six months to four 
graduates and four non-graduates to be 
nominated by the Director of Industries, 
West Bengal, in two groups. 


(e) The Company shall give training to one 
Engineering Apprentice every three years 
and pay him the usual allowances during 
the period of training. 


9. Should any dispute or difference arise touch- 
ing or concerning the subject-matter of this agree- 
ment or any covenant clause or thing herein 
contained the same shall be referred to the said 
Government of West Bengal and the opinion and 
decision of the said Government upon such dispute 
or difference shall be final and conclusive and 
binding on the parties hereto. 


The Schedule above referred to 
ALL 12198 PIECES OR PARCELS OF LAND measur- 
ing, more or less 17.76 acres and comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 341-379, 392 and part 
of cadastral survey plot No, 846 of mauza 


Nurasamuda, jurisdiction litt No. 5 and cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 766-776, 778-781 and 798 ০01 
mauza Gopalpur, jurisdiction list No. 4, police- 
station Asansol, district Burdwan. 


IN WITNESS wWHERKOF The Indian Oxygen & 
Acetylene (Co., Private Ltd., has caused its 
common seal to be affixed and the Governor of the 
State of West Bengul hath hereunto set his land 
and seal the day and year first abovewritten. 


The Common Seal of the 
abovementioned the Indian 
Oxygen & Acetylene Co. 
Private Ltd., waa hereto 

affixed in the presence of Seal, 
A. K. Son and T. R. Shields, 
Directors of the said Com- 
ny, 1 pursuance to the 


Resolution of the Board of A. K. 
Directors, dated llth May و‎ 
1956. عو موی‎ 
T. R, lds, 
Witnese— (Director). 


8. Hodges, 


48/1 Diamond Harbour 
Road, Calcutta-27. 


Signed, sealed and delivered by 
8. Banerjcc, Member, Board 
of Revenue and Secretary 
to the Government of West 
Bengal in the Department 
of Land and Land Revenue 
(ex officio) on behalf of the 
Governor of the State of 
Weat Bengal. 


Witnesa— 
P.M. Datta, Doputy Secre- 
tary, Land and Land 


(~) 
8. Banerjee, Momber, Board 
of Revenue and Secretary 


to the Government ۴ہ‎ 
West Bengal, Land and 


Revenue Department, Land Revenue Department 
Government of Woat (er officio), 
Bengal. 

5-7-1056. 5-7-1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, 


Member, Board of Revenue and Secy. to the 
Govt. of West Bengal (cx ০00০০), 


a= 


Hooghly.—No, 117147.A.—2nd July 1956.— 
Tn exercise of thé powers conferred by section ٦ 
Of the Land Acguisition Act, I of 1894, the 
Goveinor is pleased to withdraw from the 
acquisition of pieces of land comprising cadastral 
survey plots as detailed below and measuring, 
more or less, U8 acre out of 9.57 ucres, which 
was included in the area declared for acquisition 
under declaration No. 5076L.A., dated 15th 
March 1965, published at page 1250, Part [, of 
the Calcutta Gazette of the 24th idem, in respect 
of the land required by the Damodar ۵ 
Corporation from chainage 696.50 to chain- 
age 636.80 for Dakatin Khal in the villages of 
Bagbari and others, in the district of Hooghly. 


Schedule 


District Hooghly, police-station  Tarakeswar 
village Sardarpur, jurisdiction list No. 45. - 


Cadastral survey plots in part—35, 45 «nd 46 


By order of the Governor, 


S.N. MITRA, 


Special Officer and Dy. Secy. to the 
Govt, of West Bengal (ea ০1710) 


Part JT] 


94-Parganas.—No. 115941..A.—29th June 1956. 
—Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I ff 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notificataon No. 20/1/ 
hhdJudl.(1), dated 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (i) of urticle 258 of the Con- 
stitution of India; 


And whereus it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed, for a pubhe purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely for Con- 
struction of a post office building at Kamarhati, 
in the village of Ariadaha-Kamuarhati, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 1, thana SBaranagar, pargana 
Calcutta, district 24-arganas, it is hereby noti- 
fied that a piece of land comprising portion of 
cadastral plot No. 4, and measuring, more or 
less, 0.0991 of an acré is likely to be needed for 
the afvresaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesaid village of Ariadaha-Kamar- 
hati. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the 9010. notification to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Alipore, 24-Parganas. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the said section read with the said 
notification, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the ofticers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, 
may, within thirty days ufter the date on which 
public notice of the substance of this notification 
18 given in the locality file an objection in writ- 
ing before the Collector of 24-Parganas, 


Burdwan.—No, 11900L.A.—6th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for con- 
struction of buildings for oxygen and dissolved 
acetylene manufacturing plant and for providing 
quarters and other amenities to the staff in the 
Villages of Gopalpur and Nurasamuda, jurisdic- 
tion list Nos. 4 and 6, respectively, thana Asansol, 
pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
Notified that two pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 766 to 776, 778 to 81 
and 783 of mauza Gopalpur and cadastral survey 
Plot Nog, 041 to 379 and 392 and parts of cadastral 


survey plot No. 846 of mauza Narasamuda 


THE QALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 2689 


and measuring, more or less 17.76 acres, are 
likely to be needed tor the aforesaid public pur- 
pose at the expense of the Indian Oxygen 
and Acetylene Co. Private .۸01ا‎ within the afore- 
said villages of Gopalpur and Narasamuda. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inapected in the 
oflice of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Managing 
Tirector, the Indian Oxygen and Acetylene (Co. 
Private Ltd., 48/1 Dsamond ITlarbour Road, 
Calcutta-27. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section, the Governor is pleased to 
outhorise the officers for the time fheing engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 


do all other acts required or permitted by that 


section. 

Any person interested in so + much 
of the above Jand as is 17000 waste 
or arable, who has any objection to the 


acquisition thereof, may, within thirty days 
after the date on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the power conferred by sec- 
tion 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, ] of 
1894, as amended by Act XXXVITI of 1923, the 
Governor is pleased to direct that the provisions 
of section 5A of the Act shall not apply to the 
waste or arable portion of the land in this case. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


ERRATA 


Hooghly.—No. 116581..A.—2nd July 1956.— 
In the notification No. 127861L..A., dated 4th July 
1956, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition 
Act T of 1894, published at pages 1001 and 1002, 
Part I, of the Calcutta Gazette, Ertraordinary, of 
the same date, in respect of the acquisition of land 
required by the Damodar Valley Corporation for 
the excavation of Distributary K/1 from chain- 
age 98.00 to chuinage 147.30, in connection with 
the Damodar Flood Control Project in the district 
of Hooghly— 


Read “chainage 102.75 to chainage 152.05" in 
place of “chainage 98.00 ما‎ chamnage 
147.30” in lines 6 and 6, 


2690 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Varr I 
> 


ie সু ade a eae 


a alee ھا‎ এম হজ 


Burdwan.—No. 11704].A.—2nd July 1956.— 
In notification No, 7690T..A., dated 17th April 
1953, under section 4 of the Vand Acquisition 
Act I of 1894, published ot pages 655 and 656, 
Part I, of the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, of 
the 17th idem, read with erratum No, 16170L.A., 
dated the 17th August 1953, published اج‎ 
pages 2857 and 2858, Part I, of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 3rd September 1953, in respect ot 
the acquisition of land required by the Jamodar 
Valley Corporation for the Left Bank Main Canal 
from chainage 418 to chainage 640, in connection 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
district of Burdwan— 


Read “170.65 acres” for 170.16 acres’’ in 
lines 15 and 16, 


By order of the Governor, 


S. N. MITRA, 


Special Officer and Dy. Sery. to the 
(fovt. of West Bengal (er officin). 


লজ 


NOTICE 


Midnapore. — No. 11294L.A.(?.W.). — 25th 
June 1956.—Whereas 0.33 acre, more or less, of 
land situate in or near the village of Meghada- 
nagar, described below, have been requisitioned 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Weat 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
1948, by the person authorised under the said sec- 
tion 3(1) for the purpose of providing facilities for 
irrigation and drainage, namely, tor the inner 
channel of the Meghadanagar Sluice; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act, the Glovetnor 
acquires such land, being required for 1 public 
purpose as aforesaitl. 


This notice is given under the provisions of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (Weat 
Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected 1m the office 
of the Collector, Midnapore. 


Description of the land 


Msuza Meghadanagar, jurisdiction list No. 92, 
police-station Panskura, district Midnapore. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—214 and 215. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—202, 203, 204, 
205, 206, 207, 212, 213 and 216. 


DECLARATIONS 


Cooch Behar. — No. 11440L.A.(P.W.). — 26th 
June 1956.—Whereas the (tovernor is satisfied 
that land is needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the counstruc- 
tion of the Mainaguri-Changrabandha Road at 
Kamat Changrabandha and Nagar Changrahandha 
in taluk Kamat Changrabandha, sheet No. 3, thak 
No. 141, pargana Mekhliganj, zilla Cooch Behar, 
it is hereby declared that a piece 01 land compris- 
ing cadastral plot No, 1771 and measuring, more 
or less, 0.07 of an acre, ia needed for the atoresnid 
public purpose at the publie expense within the 
aisle, taluk Kamit Changrabandha, sheet 

io. 2. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Deputy Commissioner of Cooch Behar. 


Midnapore.—No. 11698L.A (P.W.).—2nd [7 
1956.— Wherens the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, not being a pur- 
pose of the Union, টিনা for the Digha ا‎ 
ment Project in the villages of  Paschim 
Gadadharpur, Khadalgobra and Bhagi Baharam- 
pur, jurisdiction list Nos. 78, 86 and 79, 
respectively, thana Ramnagar, pargana Birkul, 
district Midnapore, it is hereby declared that a 
piece of land comprising cadastral plots as des- 
eribed below and measuring, more or less, 1,82 
acres, 14 needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
at the qmublie expense within the aforesaid villages 
of Paschim Gadadharpur, Khadalgobra and Dhagi 
Baharampur. 


This declaration is made, under the provision 
of section 6 of Act 1 of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. A plan of the land may be inspected 
in the office of the Collector, Midnapore. 


Description of the land 
DISTRICT MIDNAPORE 


Thana Ramnagar 
Village Paschim Gadadharpur, jurisdiction list 
No. 78. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—2428, 2371 ond 
2372. 


Cadastral survey plot in part—2373. 


Village Khadalgobra, jurisdiction list No. 86. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—1322, 1749 and 


the 


Village Bhagi ১7 jurisdiction 6 
79. 


0, 


Cadastral survey plots in full—181 and 191. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


ERRATA. 


Hooghly.—No. 116601.A.—2nd July 1956.— 
In the declaration, No. 127881,.A., dated 4th July 
1955, under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act 
T of 1894, published at page 2719, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette of the 14th idem, in respect of 
land required by the Damodar Valley Corporation 
for excavation of Distributary K/1 from chain- 
age 98.00 to chainage 147.30, in connection with 
the Damodar Flood Control Project in the district 
of Hooghly— 


Read “chainage 102.75 to chainage 152.06” in 
place of ‘“‘chainage 98.00 to chainage 
147.30” in line 5. 


Hooghly.—No. 1)702L.A.—2nd July 1956.— 
In the declaration No. 162521..A., dated 27th 
October 1954, published at page 1608, Part I of 
the Caleutta Gazette, Eatraordinary of the same 
date, in respect of land required by the Damodar 
Valley Corporation for Tributary Cut No. 2 from 
chainage 231.36 to chainage 251.35 and from 
chainage 303.85 10 chainage 319.00, in connection 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
district of Hooghly— 


Read the figure 6.21" im place of the figure 
24" in line 14, 


Parr [] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 -2691 


-০৮্্শ্শ্ললল্ল্লললললক্ী))ল)ুউঁটটর্ল কক 


r 


Burdwan.—No, 11706L.A.—2nd July 1956.— 
Tn declaration No, 22128L.A., dated the 7th 
November 1953, under section 6 of the land 
Acquisition Act I of 1894, published at page 3762, 
Part I, of the Calcutta Gazette of the 19th idemy 
real with erratum No. 25541, A., dated 11th 
February 1955, published at page 595, Part I of 
the Calcutta Gazette of the 11711) idem, in Teapect 
of the acquisition of the land required جا‎ the 
Damodar Valley Corporation for Left Bank Main 
Canal from chainage 418 to chainage 540, in con- 
nection with the Damodar Flood Control Project 
in the district of Burdwan— 


Read ‘10.45 acres’’ for 
line 14. 


"16.94 acres’ in 


By order of the Governor, 


8. N. MITRA, 


Special Officer and Dy. Secy. to the 
(fovt, of West Rengal (ez officio). 


hearse: 


Land Reforms 


ORDERS. 


Murshidabad.—No.  108841..Ref.—19th June 
1956.— Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Bimalapada Ghosh Hazra and Shrimati Gouri 
Bala Ghosh Hazra, village Panchthupi, post office 
Panchthupi, district Murshidabad, under  sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal 
Kstates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
I of 1954), for recovery by the State Government 
of all sums recoverable by them under the provi- 
sions of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by them as intermediaries in the 
district of Murshidabad; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad.—No. 108861..Ref.—19th June 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Hironmoyee Ghosh Moulik and Shrimati 
Sitarani Ghosh Moulik under sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 
Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by them under the provisjons of section 
8 of the sa'd Act in reapect of all interests held 
hy them as intermediames in the district of 


Murshidabad; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by aub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the snid 
application. 


Hooghly.—No. 108881).Ref.—19th June 1956.— 

hereas an application has been made by Shri 
Jogendra Mohan Singha, zomfidar, Panchgara, 
district Hooghly, under sub-section (1) of section 
9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 
1969 (West Bongal Act I of 1954), for recovery 
the State Clovernment of all sums recoverable 
۲۴ him under the provisions of section 8 of the 
8810 Act in respect of all interests held by him as 
an intermediary in the district of Hooghly; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferrad hy aub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, dhe Governor is pleased to grant the said 
8000 1, 


Murshidabad-Birbhum.—No. 10890L.Ref.—19th 
June 1996.—Whoereas an application hag been 
made by Shri Subodh Krishna Ghosh Moulik and 
Shri Nirmal Krishna Ghosh Moulik under  sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 
1954), for recovery by the State Government of 
all sums recoverable by them under the provisions 
of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by them as intermediaries in the 
distriets of Murshidabad and Birbhum; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Burdwan.—No. 109101..Ref.—19th June 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Munindra Nath Biswas and others under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal 
Kstaies Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
I of 1954), for recovery by the State Government of 
all sums recoverable by them under the provisions 
of section 8 of the said Act in respect of ail 
interests held by them as intermediaries in the 
district of Burdwan; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Hooghly.—No. 10916L..Ref.—19th June 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Barendra Mohan Sen, on behalf of Shri Shri 
Lakhmi Narayan Jiu Thakur under sub-section 
(1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 
1954), for recovery by the State Government of 
all sums recoverable by him under the provisions 
of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by him as un intermediary in the 
district of Hooghly; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Calcutta.—No. 11126L.Ref.—22nd June 1956.— 
Whereus an application has been made by Kumar 
Bimal Chandra Sinha and others of 59 Barrack- 
pore Trunk Road, Calcutta-2, under sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
fion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act T of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by them under the provisions of sec- 
tion 8 of the said Act in reapect of all interests 
held by them as executrices to the estate of Jate 
Kumar Amaresh Chandra Sinha in West Bengal; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred hy sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Birbhum. —No. 11164]..Ref.—22nd June 6. 
—Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Satyendra Nath Mukherjee, post office Sangra, 
police-station Sainthia, district Birbhum, under 
sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal 
Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
I of 1944), for recoverv by the State Govern- 
ment of all sums recoverable by him under the 
provisiona of section 8 of the said Act in respect 
of all interests held by him as an intermediary 
in the district of Kirbhum; 


Now, therefore, in exertisé*of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of settion 9 of the snid 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application, 


2692 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


Burdwan.-—No. 111667,.Ref.—22nd June 6۰ 
—Whereas an application has been made by Shr 
Gobindalal Mandey, Kazirhat, post office Lakurdi, 
district Burdwan, under sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the West Bengal Hstates Acquisition 
مھ‎ 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1994), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of ھ٥‎ 
tion 8 of the said Act in respect of all interests 
held by him as an intermediary in the district 
of Birbhum; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the (tovernor 68 Slee! to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum-Malda.—No. 11168L.Ref. 
—22nd June 1956.—Whereas an application has 
been made by Kumar Chandra Singh Dwudhoria, 
Azimganj House, 7 Camac Street, Calcutta, under 
sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West Benga: 
Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
T of 1954), for recovery by the State Government 
of all sums recoverable by him under the _provi- 
sions of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by him as an intermediary in the 
districts of Murshidabad, Birbhum and Malda; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sul-section (2) of section 9 of the suid 
Act, the (Ciovernor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Burdwan.—No, 111701..Ref.—22nd June 1956. 
—Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Devprasanna Mukherjee of Burdwan under sub- 
section (1) of section 8 of the West Hengal 
Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
1 of 1954), for recovery by the State Government 
of all sums recoverable by him under the provi- 
sions of section 8 of the said Act in respect of ull 
interests held by him as am intermediary in the 
district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, iri” exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to yrant the said 
application. 


Burdwan-Hooghly.—No. ‘11172. Ref. — 22nd 
June 1956.—Whereas an application has been 
made by Shri Prokash Chandra Ghosh and others 


of 178C Upper Circular Road, Calcutta-4, 
under sub-section (1) of section 9 
of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 


Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable جا‎ them under the provisions of 
section 8 of the said Act in respect of all interests 
held by them us intermediary in the districts of 
Burdwan and Tlooghly; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application, 


Murshidabad-Burdwan.—No. 111741. Ref.— 
22700 June 1956.—Whereas an application has 
been made by Shri Bejoyendu Narayan Roy of 
Jejo, post office Kandi, district Murshidabad, 
under swh-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by him under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act in res- 
pect of al] interests held by him as an _ inter- 
mediary in the districts of Murshidabad and 
Burdwan ; -۰ 


Now, therefore, in cise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the 4tovernor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


[Parr I 
এ 


Burdwan.—No, 119681,.1301.--2011 June 1956. 
—Whereas an application lag been made by 
Maharajkumar Somendra Chandra Nandy and 
others of 802 Upper Circular Road, Calcutta, under 
sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal states Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act TI of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by them under the provisions of 
section 8 of tne said Act in respect of all interests 
held by them 98 intermediaries in the district of 
Burdwan; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Midnapore,—No. 11860L.Ref.—26th June 1956. 
—Whereas an application has heen made by 
Shrimati Nirmala Bala Dutta and two other co- 
sharers under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery ما‎ the 
State Government of all sums recovergble by 
them under the provisions of section ৪ of the 
said Act in respect of all interests held hy them 
us intermediaries in the district of Midnalpore; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is plensed to grant the said 
application, 


Bankura.—No,. 11444L.Ref.—27th June 1956. 
—-Whereas un application has been made by 
Shri Debi Prosad Pandey of village and post 
office Nepura, district Midnapore, under 501৮ 
section (ا)‎ of section 9 of the West Bengal 
Kastates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
1 of 1954), for recovery by the State Government 
of all sums recoverable by him under the provi- 
sions of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by him os an intermediary in the 
district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grunt the said 
application. 


Bankura.—No. 114521. Ref.—27th June 1956. 
—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Kshetra Nath Banerjee, Beliatore P.O., 
district Bankura, under sub-section (1) of  sec- 
tion 9 of the West Bengal LKstates Acquisition 
Act, 192৭ (West Bengal Act 1 of 1904), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of 8৪০- 
tion 8 of the said Act in respect of al] interests 
held by him us an intermediary in the district of 
Bankura ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (8) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant ihe said 
application. 


Bankura.—No. 114541. Ref.—27th June 1966. 
—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Sibani Devi, C/o Kshetra Nath Banerjee, 
Beliatore P.O., district Bankura, under sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal 8 
Acquisition Act, 1853 (West Bengal Act I. of 
1954), for recovery by the State Government of 
all sums recoverable by her under the provisious 
of section 8 of the said Act in respect of 4 
interests held by her as an intermediary in the 
district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred hy sub-section (2) of acction 9 of the aaid 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Part I] 


THE GAIXUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2693 


a a ae ma نم سی‎ - 


Bankura.---No. 114561. 1১017217160) June 1956. 
_ Whereas an 00 has been made by 
Shri Benoy Krishna*Roy, Beliutore ٣۰, O., district 
Bankura under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Kstates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act IT of 1954), for recovery by the Stdte 
(Jovernment of all sums recoverable by him under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act in 
respect of all interests held by him as لت‎ inter- 
mediary in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


Land Development 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Nadia.—No. 10754L.Dev.—16th June 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
into {he State of West Bengal on account 01 
circuinstances beyond their control in the village 
of Magurkhali, jurisdiction list No. 158, police- 
station Ranaghat, district Nadia, it is hereby 
notified that for the above purpose a piece of Jand 
comprising parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 40, 
42, 43 and 43/1007, ond measuring, more or less, 
0.74 of an acre, is likely to be required within the 
aforesaid village of Magurkhali, jurisdiction list 
No. 158. 


This notifieaton is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal 
Act XXT of 1948), to all whom 16 may concern. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is plensed to authorise 
the Collector, Nadia, and the Refugee Rehabilita- 
tion Commissioner, West Bengal, for the t'me 
being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
officers, servanta and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the land and do all other acts required or 
permitied by that section, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, Nadia. 


24-Parganas.—No. 107561,.Dev.—16th June 
1956.—Wherens it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public کو یو‎ 
viz., for the ৪6111610671. of immigrants, who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on account 
of circumstances beyond their control in the 
village of Pathuria, jurisdiction list No. 8, police- 
station Bongaon, district 24-Porganas, it is hereby 
notified that for the above purpose a piece of lund 
comprising cadastral survey plot No. 1442, and 
measuring, more or less, 0.43 of an acre, is likely 
to be required within the aforesaid village of 
Pathuria. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal J.and Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal 
Act XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
Said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the Collectar, 24-Parganas, and the Refugee 
Rehabilitation Commissioner, West Bengal, for 
the time being engaged in the undertuking, with 
their officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon 
and survey the land, and do all other acts required 
or permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspetced in the office 
of the Collector, 24-8۰ 


Nadia.—No. 108261.Dev.—18th June 1956.— 
Wherens it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the villages 
of Bhaduri, jurisdiction list No. 2, Mahisdanga, 
jurisdiction list No, 3, Taberpur, jurisdiction list 
No. 4, Birnagar, jurisdiction list No, 19, Baraset, 
jurisdiction list No. 28, police-station Ranaghat, 
and villages Boalia, jurisdiction list No. 68 and 
Nidhkur, jurisdiction list No. 69, police-station 
Santipur, district Nadia, it is hereby notified that 
for the above purpose pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. described in the schedule 
below and altogether measuring, more or less, 
1,020.09 acres, are-likely to be required within the 
aforesaid villages of Bhaduri, Mahisdanga, 
Taherpur, Baraset, Birnagar, Boalio and Nidhkur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal J.and Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Benga] Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


Tn exercise of the powers conferred by the ufore- 
said section, the (fovernor 1s pleased to authorise 
the Collector, Nadia, and the Refugee Rehabilita- 
tion Commissioner, West Bengal, for the time be- 
ing engaged in the undertaking, with their officers, 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, Nadia. 


The Schedule 


Village Bhaduri.—Cadastral survey plot Noa, 929 
to 981, 100], 1002, 1020 to 1027, 1010 to 
1084, 1065 to 1072, 1076, 1086 to 1106, 
1108, 1109, 1113, 1256, 1284 to 1286, 1327 
to 1850, 1366 to 1371, 1873 to 1886, 0 
to 1394, 1401 to 1414, 1416 to 1421, 1424 
to 1428, 1436 to 1439, 1447, 1457 to 1460, 
1464, 1465, 1474 to 1477, 1479 to 1484, 
1488, 1546, 1584 to 1686, 1590 to 1595 and 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1372 and 1387. 


Village Mahisdanga.—Cadastral survey plots 
Nos. 6, 8, 9, 11, 17, 18, 20, 21, 24,. 26, 
37 to 40, 43, 59 to Gl, 66, 72, 73. 75 to 
83, 85, 92, 94 to 98, 100, 102 to 104, 106 
to 121, 174 to 182, 184 to 195, 226 to 
230, 242 to 258, 260 to 265, 332, 333, 
99] to 359, 363, 381, 387, 901 to 903, 906, 
907, 909, 912, 917, 921, 9384 to 097, 941, 
946, 951 to 955, 969, 980 to 982, 1011 to 
1015, 1023 to 1025, 1028 to 1032, 1034 to 
1046, 1048 to 1056, 1070, 1071, 1078, 1090, 
1093 io 1096, 1109, 1117, 1121 to 1128, 
1126, 1156, 1166, 1180, 1184, 1185, 1200 to 
1204, 1211, 1218, 12156 to 1218, 1225 to 
1226, 1280, 1234, 1249 to 1258, 1418, 1414, 
1416, 1490 to 1433, 1486, 1438 to 1440 
1457, 1458, 1463, and parts of C.S. plots 
Nos, 99, 101, 105, 183, 1167, 1179, 1181, 
hats 1214, 1228, 1229, 1281 and 1285 to 


Villuge Boalia.—C.S. plot Nos. 1850 to 1358, 
1355, 1367, 1368, 1360, 1869, 1371, 1482, 
1884, 1391 to 1395, 1899, 1400 to 1408, 
1424 to 1428, 1480 to 1486, 1445, 1446, 
1448, 1461, 14653, 1464, 1467, 1470 ‘to 1474, 
1477, 1480 to 1484, 1486, 1487, 10002, 
1580) to 1685, 1587, 15389, 1542 to 1544, 
1657 and 1558 and parts of CS. plot Nos. 1429, 
1447, 1466, 1468, 1469, 1478, 1479, 1485 
and 1560. 


Village Nidhkur.—C.8.splot Nos. 927 to 940, 
948 to 980, 883 to 1008, 1010 to 1018, 
1020 to 1035, 1115, 1116, 1211 and 1220 and 
parts of 0.8. plots Nos. 981) 982, 1009 and 1019. 


2694 1'111 CAIOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 
———— হত 
نت‎ 


পণ পলি উর উড 


ছি লহ শপ ee 


Ee 


Village Taherpur.—C.S. plot Nos. 488 to 498, 
604, 400, 616 to 639, 639, 1152, 1179, 
11٦0. 1192 to 1195, 1197, 1199 to 02, 
1204 to 1211, 1218, 1214, 1217, 1219, 1220, 
1220 نا‎ 1228, 1280 to 1240, 12438 to 1251, 
1268, 1271 to 1278, 1275, 1870 to 1379, 
1383, 1384, 1887 to 13891, 1894, 1397, 1398, 
1401 to 1406, 1409 to 1419, 1421, 1422, 
1424 to 1462, 1464, 1468, 1416, 1482, 1499 
to 1508, 1510 to 1617, 1520, 19515 1949, 
1625, 1527, 15382 to 15385, 1689 to ০697, 
1639 to 1774 and 1779 to 1821. 


Village Birnagar.—C.&. plot Nos. 28, 67, 68, 
70 to 78, 106 to 110, 114 to 185, 147 to 
156, 281 to 288, 277, 278, 287, 304 to 
310, 318 to 828, 330, 831 and 337 to 1 
and parts of (3.3. pot Nos. 157 and 283, 


Village Baraset.—-C.S. plot Nos. 549 and 251. 


Howrah.—No. 108281..Dev.—18th June 1956,-—. 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the villages 
of Balarampota, jurisdiction hat No. 109 ond 
Dasbhaga, jurisdiction list No, 104, police-station 
Tluberia, district Howrah, it is hereby notified 
that for the above purpose pieces of land compris- 
ing cadastral survey plot Nos; 562, 718, 775 and 
part of cadastral survey plot No. 521 of village 
Ralarampota, and cadastral survey plot Nos. 9 
850, and part of cadastral survey plot No. 847 o 
village Dasbhaga and altogether measuring, more 
or less, 0.78 of an acre, are likely to be required 
within the aforesaid villages of Balarampota and 
Dasbhaga. 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 1 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the Collector, Howrah, and the Refugee Rehatilita- 
tion Commissioner, West Bengal, for the time be- 
ing engaged in the undertaking, with their officers, 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts, required or 
permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, Howrah. 


Hooghly.—No. 10830L.Dev.—18th June 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal, on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Mahesh, jurisdiction list No. 16) police-station 
Serampore, district Hooghly, it is hereby notified 
that for the ubove purpose a piece of land compris- 
ing cadastral survey plots Nos. 2889, 2391, 2393, 
2398 to 2406, 2409 to 2411, 2414, 2619, 
2542 to 2546, 2551 to 2657, 2662, 2563, and parts 
of cadastral survey plota Nos. 2388, 2390, 2394, 
2415, 2558 to 2561] and 2564, and measuring, more 
or less, 24.932 acres, is likely to be required within 
the aforesaid village of Mahesh. 


This notification 18 made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal J.and Develonment 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXT 
of 1948), 10 all whom it may concern, 


[In exercine of the powers conferred by the atore- 
anid section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the (Collector, Hooghly, and the Refugee 
Rehabilitation Cemmissioner, West Bengal, for 
the time heing engaged in the undertaking, with 
their officers, servants and workmen, م)‎ enter upon 
and survey the land and dg all other acts required 
or permitted hy that nectifn. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the offic 
of the Collector, Hooghly, এ 


[Fant I 


24.Parganas.—No. = 112241,. Dev. —2drd Juno 
1956.—W hezeas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed 161 a public purpose, 
viz., for the settlement ot immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on 
account of circumstances beyond their control in 
the village of Natagarh, jurisdiction list No. 15, 
pelice-station Khardaha, district 24-Parganas, it 
is hereby notified that for the ubove ‘purpose a 
pases of land comprising cadastral survey plots 

os. 459, 460, 466, 467, 470, 490, 491, 492, 494, 
495, 502 to 504, 506 to 510, 615, 517, 629, 1666, 
1667, 1678, 1679 and parts of cadastral survey plots 
Nos. 496, 501, 505 and 514 of village Natagarh 
and measuring, more or less, 16.38 acres, is likely 
to be required within the aforesaid village of 
Natagarh. 

This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4701 the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


Im exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
snid section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the Collector, 24-Varganas, and the Refugee 
Rehabilitation Commissioner, West Bengal,} for 
the time being engaged in the undertaking, \with 
their officers, servants and workmen, to enter (pon 
and survey the land and do all other acts required 
or permitted hy that section. ا‎ 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
(00106 of the Collector, 234-8018. 


24-Parganas. — No. 11226],.Dev. — 23rd June 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the (tovernor “that 
land is likely to be needed for a public ور ید‎ 
viz., for the settlement of immigrants, who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on sccount 
of circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Satgachhi, jurisdiction list No. 20,  police- 
station Jum-Dum, district 24-Parganas, it 1s 
hereby notified that for the above purpose ۸ piece 
of land comprising cadastral survey plots Nos. 148) 
and 1486 and measuring, more or less, 0.2850 ecre, 
is likely to be required within the aforesaid village 
of Satgachhi. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


Tn exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the Collector, 24-Parganas,.and the Refugee 
Rehabilitation Commissioner, West Bengal, for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the land and do all other acts required or 
permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


Birbhum.—No. 113461..Dev.—26th June 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., 
for the settlement of immigrants, who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on account 
of circumstances beyond their control in the 
village of Byaspur, jurisdiction list No. 218, 
police-station Sainthia, district Birbhum, it is 
hereby notified that for the above ان‎ 8 ۴'۴ 
of land comprising cadastral survey plots Nos. |, 
51, 262, 265, 267, 268, 269, 27h, 276, 278, 
288, 289, 293, 300, 3801, 302, 308, 304, 011, 
316, 4563, 454, 465 and 456 and seasuring, 
more or 1688, 65.41 acres, is likely to he required 
within the aforesaid village of Byaspur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (Wert Bengal Act 1 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern, 


Part 1 


গজ 

In exercise of the power conferred by the ufute- 
anid section, the Governor is pleased to طئ‎ ۵٥أ(‎ 
{he Collector, Birbhum, and the Refugeg 
Rehabilitation Commissioner, West Bengal,,for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the Jand and do all other acts required or 
permitted by that section. ° 


A plan of the land may be inspected in tne office 
ot the Collector, Birbhum. 


DECLARATIONS 


24-Parganas. — No. 112281 .Dev. — 28rd June 
1956.—Whereas 1٦ appears to the Governor that 
land is needed tor a public purpose, wamely, for 
the setilement of immigrants, who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the gillage 
of Gobindapur, jurisdiction list No. 38, police- 
station Tollygunge, district 24-Parganas, it is 
hereby declared that for the above purpose a piece 
of land comprising cadastral survey plots Nos. 117, 
118 to 122, 124, 127 to 133, 135 to 141, 148, 149, 
151 and 158 and parts of cadastral survey plots 
Nos. 114, 128, 184, 142, 147, 152, 154, 196 and 
197 measuring, more or less, 3.755 acres, is 
required within the aforesaid village of 
বউ ا‎ 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the First land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta. 


24-Parganas. — No. 11230L.Dev. — 28rd June 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is needed for a public purpose, namely, for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
into the State of Weat Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of. Kustia, jurisdiction list No. 14, police-station 
Tollygunge, district 24-Parganas, it 1s hereby 
declared that for the above purpose a piece of land 
comprising cadastral survey plots Nos. 729, 1009, 
1208, 1211, 1212, 1802, 1304, 1805, 1398 and 1400 
and parts of cadastral survey plots Nos. 728, 730, 
781, 1308, 1806 and 1899 and measuring, more or 
Jess, 10.78 acres, is required within the «aforesaid 
village of 7 


This declaration is made, under the | 10518160705 
‘af weetion 6 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act ۱ 
۶ہ‎ 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta. 
ক 


24-Parganas. — No. 11205151065, — 23rd June 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is needed for a public purpose, namely, for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
1110 «the State of West Bengal on arcount of 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Kalidaha, jurisdiction -list No, 23, police-station 
Dum Dum, acon 24-Parganas, it is hereby 
declared that for the above purpose a piece of Jand 
comprising cadastral survey plots Nos, 128, 129, 
131 and 133 and measuring, more or Jess, .8456 of 
Un acre, is required within the aforesaid villuge of 


6۴10. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Laud Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 2696 


24-Parganas. — No. 11+31(001,.1)8ঘ, — 20 June 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is needed for-a public purpose, namely, for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
info the State of West Bengal on account of 
circumstances heyond their control in the villages 
of Gobindapur and Sanpamirzanagar, jurisdiction 
lists Nos, 9 and 11, respectively, police-station 
Muhestala, district 24-Parganas, it is hereby 
declared that for the above purpose a piece of land 
comprising cadastral survey plots Nos. 93, 132, 254, 
257 to 259, 261 to 268, 272 to 274, 276, 
279, 328 and 4848 and parts of cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 91, 92, 125, 129, 181, 138, 145, 
146 and 147 of village Gobindapur and cadastral 
survey plots Nos. 165 to 179, 185, 869 and 892 of 
village Sanpamirzanagar and measuring, more or 
leas, 10.56 acres, is required within the aforesaid 
villages of Gobindapur and Sanpamirzanagar. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Iand Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (Wést Bengal Act VXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of 24-Parganas. 


By order of the Governor, 
1১. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 
Requisition 
NOTIFICATION 

Midnapore.—No. 11312Reqn.—25th June 1956. 
—Whereas the premises specified in the schedule 
below were requisitiomed under sub-section (1) 
of section 3 of the West Bengal Premises Requisi- 
tion and Control (Temporary 17051910788) Act, 
1947; 

And wherens no agreement can be reached in 
respect of the amount of monthly rent com- 
pensation payable on account of such  requiei- 
tion of the said premises; 


Now, therefore, in exgreise of the power con- 
ferred by clause (b) of sufv-section (1) of section 
11 of the said Act, the (tovernor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Subodh Kumar Neogi, District and 
Sessions Judge, Midnapore, as an Arbitrator for 
the determination of the amount of such com- 


Pensation, 
The Schedule 


[10198 owned by Shri Shyama Charan Sen and 
Shri Benoyendra Nath Sen on plot Nos. 258 and 
259, mauza Monoharchak, khatian No. 189, police- 
station (02001) district Midnapore. 


Ly order of the Covernor, 
.اط‎ M. SAMANTA, Asst. Secy. 


Evacuee Property Administration 
NOTIFICATION 


24-Parganas-Calcutta.No. 11478E.P.A.—27th 
June 1966.—In exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-sertion (1) of section 14 of the West 
Bengal WMvacuee Property Act, 1951 (West 
Bengal Act V of 1951), the Evacuee Property 
Management Committee for West Bengal is here- 
hy pleased, with the approval of the State Govern- 
ment, to appoint Shri S. N. Dag Gupta, Deputy 
(olleetor retired) and Subdivisional Land Reforms 
Qfficer T1), Alipore, to assist the Committee in the 
exercise or discharge of its powers, duties and 
functions under the said Act within the district 
of 24-Pargunas as well as within Calcutta 8ম 
defined in section 3 of the Calcutta Police Act, 
1866, including the suburbs of Calcutta as 
defined by, notification under section 1 of the 
Caleutta Suburban Police Act, 1866, 


By order of the Committee, 


S. ভি. BANERJEE, 
یمم‎ to the Evacuee Property Management 
Committee for West Bengal. 


2696 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Agriculture 
NOTIFICATION. 

No. 6973Agri.—25th June 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to grant Shri D. Basu, Statistical Officer, 
Directorate of Agriculture, extraordinary leave 
up to 818 December 1956 under rule 174(i)(a) of 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, in extension 
of the leave sanctioned in this department Noti- 
fication No. 12344Apgri., dated 29th December 
1955, 


By order of the Governor, 
P. C. GOPH, Dy. Secy. 


Forests 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 5416For.—l7th May 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by section 4 of the Indian 
Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), the Governor is 
pleased to declare that it has been decided to con- 
stitute as reserved tvurest, to be called Junput 
Reserved Forest, the~ lands measuring, 880.11 
actes situated in mauzas Mankaraiput, jurisdiction 
list No. 569, Shyamraybuar-Jalpai, jurisdiction list 
No. 570, Biramput, jurisdiction list No. 583, 
Purbachechuraput, jurisdiction list No. 985, 
Dakshinkadua, jurisdiction list No. 586, Kadua- 
Mokundapur, jurisdiction list No, 618, Gopalpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 619, Bhogpur, jurisdiction 
list No. 624 and Kaluraybar, jurisdiction list 
No., 631 of police-station Contai, in the Contai 
subdivision of the district of Midnapore and within 
the boundaries described in the schedule below :— 


Schedule 


Group I. 
Mauzn Mankaraiput, jurisdigtion list No. 569. Acquired 
(vide Declaration No. 26996L.Dev., dated 19th Decombor 
1953). 


8. 8. plot No. Area in 
acres. 
90(p) 56 -16 
Total ii 56 -16 


Boundartes. 


North-—(. 8. plot Nos. 107, 27, 28, 32, 33, 48 94 and 49/89 
and mauza Sharacpur, jurisdiction list No. 567. 


East—C. 8. plot No. 89 and mauza Shyamraybar-Jalpai, 
jurisdiction list No. 570. 


South—Part of C, 8S. plot No. 90. 
West-——Mauza Sharadpur, jurisdiction list No. 567. 


Group ١ا‎ 


19152 Shymraybar-Jalpai, jurisdiction list No. 570 .Acquired 
(vide Declaration No. 2028 L.Dev., dated 3186 January 1953). 


C. 8. plot No. Area in 
acres, 
19 1-46 
20 5ء‎ 
21 ১ 
চিল 
401 28 
72 281 
78 17 -96 
74 21-06 | 
78 3°01 
75(p) 106 -31 
—— وڈ دو‎ 
Total ৬৪ 158 ‘16 
25 


THK CATOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Parr I 


Mauza Riramput, juriadiction 1041 No. 683-— 


(৫) Acquired (vide Declaration No. 5134 .ہا‎ Dev., dated 7th 
,April 1954). 


C!S. plot No. Aroa in 
acros, 
399 (p) 80 
447 (p) 1-05 
Total - 9:75 


(০) Acquired (vide Declaration No. 2028L.Dev., dated 3lst 
January 1953). 
Newchar A, its arca boing ٠ 11-60 
acres. 


(c) Transferred from Khasmahal Department (vide No. 4165- 
L.R., dated 12th March 1953. 


Description Area in 
Acres. 
C. 8. plot No. 481/527 210 
Transferred newchar i 69 -67 
Total of (a) (6) and (c) 4 2 


তাই 
¢ 


Boundaries. 


North—C. 8. plot Nos. 18, 22, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, 63 and 71 of 
mauza Shyamraybar-Jalpai, and C. 8. plot Nos. 398, 
399/525, 428, 430, 446, 448, 449, 451 part and 481 of 
mauza Biramput. 


East—Mela ground. 


South—Part of 0. 8. plot No. 75 of mauza Shyamraybar- 
Jalpai and Bay of Bengal. 


West—Mauza Mankaraiput. 


Group ا‎ 
Mauza Girampur, jurisdiction list No. 583 — 


(a) Acquired (vide Declaration No. §134 L.Dev., dated 7th 
April 1954). 


C. 8. plot Ne. Area in 
acres. 
486 0-12 
487 0 29 
488 10 -58 
488/522 100 
Total Tae 21-40 


(b) Acquired (vido Declaration No. 2028 L. Dev., dated 218 
January 1953). রঃ 


New char 135 ite area being. . 14-00 acres 
Total of (a) and (9) - 35 -49 
Bouw.darica, 


North—C. 8. plot ‘No. 485 of mauza Birampur. 


East—An unnumbered plot to the west of mauza Purbache- 
churaput. 


South—DBay of Isengal. 
West—Mela ground. 


Group IV. 


Mauza Purbachechuraput, jurisdiction list No. 585. Acquired 
(vide Declaration No. 6134 .ہا‎ Dev., dated Tth April 10964). 


)7. 8. plot No, Area in 
۰. 
185 7:37 
186 88 
18? 90:20 
Total ৮ ৪» "51 60 


Part 1] 
) 


ہے ص یس شس 


Mauza Dakshin Kaduf. Aoquired (vide Declaration No. 
No. 2028L.Dev., dated 9186 January 1953). 


C. 8. plot No. Area inn 
acres. 
523 48 
4 1-36 
525 1 -28 
526 1-25 
527 1-85 
528 3 30 
529 14 
0 1-37 
531 جو‎ 
532 1 
533 10 
534 63 
535 136 
536 61 
537 ] -37 
538 70 
680 65 
640 1-29 
541 1-28 
643 1.8? 
544 1 -30 
545 ] -26 
546 82 
647 13 -82 
648 4-60 
540 5-01 
550 1-17 
551 3:83 
552 1-39 
553 “49 
557 03 
558 16 -66 
562 4°57 
664 4-43 
677 04 
578 2:01 
579 1 30 
Now char (c) 214 3 
Total 7 348 1 
Mauza Kadua-Mukundapnr, jurisdiction [hat No. 618. 


Acquired (vide Declaration No, 31641.1230۳۰, dated 16th Febru- 
ury 10653). ۱ 


0.8. plot No. Arena in 
acres, 

904) *82 
911 18-00 
925 “32 
26 00 
: 908(p) *14 
001(p) 24 
886 24 
New char 44-09 
men pHi ee 
Total ৪» 13:67 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2697 


সাপ 


Mauza Gopalpur juriedeition list No. 619. Acquired (vide 
Declaration No. 2009615199৮ dated 19th Decomber 1953). 


C. 8. plot No. Aroa in 
acres, 
439(p) 5-45 
Total 5-45 


চে 


Boundaries. 


North—C. 8S. plot No. 184 of mauza Purbathechuraput. 
0. 5. plot No. 522 of mauza Dakainnkadua. C. S, 
plota Nos. 927, 896 007, 909, 908(p), 90I(p), 899, 892, 
891, 886, 885(p), 884(p), 882(p) and 881 of mauza Kadua- 
Mukundapur, 438(p) of mauza Gopalpur, 


East—C. 8. plota Nos. 438 and 439 part of mauza Gopalpur. 


South—Part of C. 8S. plot No. 439 of mauza’' Gopalpur and 
Bay of Bengal. 


West—An unnumbered plot of mauza Purbachechuraput. 


Group V 


Mauza Bhogpur, jurisdiction list No. 624 and Kaluraybar 
juriadiction list No. 631. Acquiged (vido Declaration No. 
2000 L.Dev., dated 19th December 1963), 


C. 8. plot No. Area in 
acres. 
199(p) 6 05 (Mauza 
Bhogpur) 
20(p) 8۰32 (mauza 
Kaluraybur). 
Total و‎ 7 
19087507508, 


North—C. 8. plot No. 196 part of mauza Bhogpur and C. 8. 
plot No. 27 part of mauza Kaluraybar. 


East—C. 8. plot Nos. 26 and 25 of mauza Kaluraybar. 


South—C. 8. plot No. 199 part of mauza Bhogpur and C. 8. 
plot No. 20 part of mauza Kaluraybar. 


West—C. 8. plot No. 198 of mauzsa Bhogpur. 


Group ۱ 


Mauza Kaluraybar, jurisdiction list No. 631. Acquired (vide 
Declaration No. 269961..Dev., dated 19th December 1953). 


C. 9. plot No. 20(p) ita area being 3 ۰68 acres. 


Boundaries. 
North—C. 8. plot No. 26 of mauza Kalurayabar. 
East—C. 8, plot No. 19 of the same mauzu. 
South—C. 8. plot No. 20 of the same mauza. 
West—C. 8. plot Nos. 26 and 20 of the same mauza. 


Group Vil 


Mauza Kaluraybar, jurisdiction list No. 631. Acquired (vide 
Declaration No. 26906L.Dov., 48,69৫ 10th December 1953). 


Part of C. 8. plot No. 7, comprising an area of 20-50 acros. 


۰ Boundarvea. 
North—C. 8. plot Nos. 19, 13 12, and 8 and 4 of mauza 
Kalurayabar. 
Bast—-Part of C. ও. plot No. 6 of mauza Kalurayabar. 
South—Part of 0, S. plot No. 7, of mauza Kaluraybar. 


West— Parts of ٥. S. plots Nos. 19 and 7 of mauza Kaluray- 
bar. 


2. In exercise of the power conferred by 
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the 
Indian Forest Act, 1927 (AVI of 1927), the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to appoint the Collector, Midna- 
pore, to enquire into and determine the existence, 
pature and extent of any rights alleged to exist 
in favour of any person in or over any land com- 
prised within the limits specified above, and to 
deal with the same as provided in Chapter 11 of 
the said Act, 


3. In exercise of the power conferred Oy, 800- 
tion 17 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI 01 
1927), the Governor is pleased to appoint the 
Commissioner of the Presidency Division to hear 
appeals from the orders passed by the Forest 
Settlement Officer under section 11, section 12, 
section 13 or section 16 of the said Act. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, Secy. 


2698 THE 04140017014 GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Varr 1 
ata পণ FLOSS | Name of service. Mothod of 1-1 কা for 
mont. direct recruitment. 
Tanks Improvement সর 2 3 
Desirable. 
01 Experience in one or 
NOTIFICATION. more of the fol- 


CHT I جے‎ ৬৭৭৬পঃসঃ।+-২০শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-মোদনশপব 
জেলায় পৃঙ্কবিণণ সংস্কার আধকারক শ্রীআনল কান্ত লাঁহড়ীকে পাশ্চম- 
বঞ্গ Bors 'নিয়মাবলীব (ST খন্ড) ১৬৮০১) সংখ্যক 'নিয়মানুসারে ১১ই 
এপ্রল ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে ৯ই মে ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ পর্যন্ত আ্জত ছাট 
TAA করা ۱ 

এই 'বভাগের ২৮শেৈ মে ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখের ৫৭৮১নং প্রজ্ঞাপন এতদ্বারা 
বাঁতল ۱ 

রাজ্যপালের আদেশানসারে, 
সরেল্দ্রনাথ ব্যানার্জ, 
ণ সহ 1۱ 

Midnapore.—No. 6776T.I.—20th June 1956.— 
Shri Anil Kanta Lahiri, Tanks Improvement 
Officer, Midnapore, is allowed earned leave fon 
the period from 11th April 1956 to 9th May 1946, 


both days inclusive, under rule 168(i) of the 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


This cancels this department 
No. 5781, dated 28th May 1966. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. N. BANERJEA, Asst. Secy 


notification 


DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES 
Fisheries 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 480Fish.—5Sth June 1956.—In exercise of 
the pqwer conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution of “India, the Governor is 
pleased to make, in supersession of the existing 
rules, the following rules regulating the recruit- 
ment to the West Bengal Subordinate Fisheries 


Service, Class I, under the MJhrectorate of 
Fisheries, (dovernment of West Hengal, 
namely :— 


The West Bengal Subordinate Fisheries Service, 
Class I—Recruitment Rules, 


1. Appointing Authority —The Director of 
Fisheries, Weat Bengal, shall be the appointing 
authority. 


2. Method of Recruitment and Qualifications, 
—The method of recruitment to and the qualifica- 
tions for the West Bengal Subordinate Hisheries 
Service, Class I, shall be as detailed in’ the 
corresponding column of the table below :— 


TABLE 


Name of service. Mothod of recruit. Qualifications for 


ment. direct recruitment. 
1 2 3 
Weat Bengal (i) By direct recruit- (A) Age not amore 
Subordinate ment or than 30 years, re- 
Fisheries Ser- laxableup to 35 


yoars for a specially 


190, Claas I. 
quahtied candidate. 


(৮) By promotion (B) For Extension 
from the Subordi- Branch— 
nate Fisheries 
Service, Claas II, Essential. 


provided that not 

more than one A degree in Science 

third of the vacan- of a recognised 

cies shall be filled University, ١0۰ 

up by promotion. ferably with Zoo- 
logy or Chomistry 
aw one of the sub- 
jects in the degree 
ہہ‎ or a degree 
in KBishery Techno- 


logy. 


lowing : 

(a) Fish production 
m Inland Fish. 
eries, or Marine 
Fisheries, or Ea- 
tuarino $F isherios. 

(ob) Marketing of 
Fish 


ish. 
(c) Collection of 
statistical data. 
For Research and 
Technological Bra- 
nch. 
Essential. 

A Master’s oor an 
Honours dogreo of 
@ recognised Uni- 
veraity in Science 
Qn Zoology, Che- 
mustry, Physics or 
any other sybject 
depending on! the 
duties of the poat); 
or # degree\ im 
Fishery g Techno- 
logy. ۱ 

Desirable. 
be 


Experience in one 

more of tho follow, 

ing :— 

(৫) Processing and 
Preservation of 
Fish 


Or, 


(b) Water and Soil 
Analysis. 


3. Special conditions.—A candidate selected 
by direct recruitment shall, except when he has 
already satisfactorily completed × course of train- 
ing in an [Inland Visheries Training Centre of the 
Government of India, or any other organisation 
approved by the State Government, be deputed 
tor undergoing a course of traming tor a period 
not exceeding one year either oat the Fisheries 
Training Ceutres organised by -the Government of 
India or at such station or stations us may be 
decided by the Director of Fisheries, West 
Bengal. The candidate shall get oa stipend of 
Rs. 75 per mensem during the period of his train- 
ing, but if any tuition iees and other charges 
become payable to the authorities of the training 
centres during the course of “his training, such 
tuition fees and charges shall be borne by the 
Government. The candidate shall be appointed 
on probation to the West Bengal Subordinute 
Fisheries Service, Class T, on satisfactory comple- 
tion of the course of training. 


By order of the Governor, 
৪ N. DAS, Secy. 


বাস্তৃহারা, AT ও MTA TAT বিভাগ । 


REFUGEE RELIEF AND REHABILITATION 
DEPARTMENT 


APR | 
Establishment 


প্রজ্ঞাপন 
NOTIFICATION 
সংখ্যা YYCERG I—RAM জুন ১৯৫৬।- সমবায় 211151116 6 
চন্দ্র BLAIS পশ্চিমবঙ্গ কৃতাক নিয়মাবলীর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৮৫১) সংখ্যক 
[নয়মানূযায়শ ইংরাজশী ৭ই জুল ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ হইতে ১৪ই জুন ১৯৫৬ 
তারিখ পর্যন্ত রাজ্যপালের আদেশানুসারে 'চাকংসাক্ষেত্রে aes ছাট 
TAA করা হইল। 
রাজ্যপালের আদেশান;সারে, 
কে, ار ری‎ 
উপ-সাঁচব। 


Part I] 


নল‏ ہے 

No. 28595৮৮৮21৮ June 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to allow ehri Samarendra Chandra 
Chowdhury, Special Officer, Co-operatives, Refugee 
Relief and Rehabilitation Directorate, earned 
leave, on medical certificate, with effect from <٥ 
June 1956 to 14th June 1956, under rulee 1681) 
of West Bengal Service Rules, Part T. 


te আপ‏ دیو ہھے- سو!' 


By order of the Governor, 


CHAKRABARTY, Dy. Secy.‏ .کا 


ferent 11۱ 
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 


শিক্ষা। 


Education 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলণ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 


২৪-পরগনা।-নং ৬৬৯২শিক্ষা।৪এ-৬।৫৬।-২০শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-- 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ BUSA বাণীপুর স্নাতকোত্তর 68 ۴۹ 
কলেজের “শক্ষা'র উপাধ্যায় ল্লীতারাপদ ভৌমিক উচ্চপদে fare হওয়ায় 
এ পদে ও এ Fors শ্লীমতা সুনন্দা সরকার, 'ডপ-ইন-এডুকেশন (লন্ডন), 
এম)এ,ইন-এডুকেশন (কলিঃ)কে ১৯৫৬ সালের গ্রীক্মাবকাশ Ges কলেজ 
খুলিবার তারিখ হইতে অথবা পরবর্তী যোগদানের তাঁরথ হইতে পুনরাদেশ 
পর্য্ত অস্থাঁয়ভাবে নিয়োগ করা হইল। 


24-Parganas,—No, 6692 dn. /4A-6/56.—20th 
June 1956.—Shrimati Sunanda Sarkar, Dip.-in- 
Education (londoif), M.A.-in-Edu¢ation (Cal- 
eutta), is appointed to act as Lecturer 
in Education, Post-Graduate Basic Train- 
ing College, Banipur, in the West Bengal Junior 
Educational Service, with effect from the date of 
the reopening of the College after the Summer 
Vacation in 1956 or any subsequent date on which 
she joins, vice Shri Turapada Bhowmick promoted 
and until further orders, 


২৪-পরগনা-মোদনশপর IAL ৬৬৯৩াশক্ষা।9এ-৬1৫৬।-২০শে Ta 
১৯৫৬।--পশ্চিমবঙ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ কৃতাক EE ও অধুনা TA 
স্নাতকোত্তর বৃনিয়াদশ শিক্ষণ কলেজের 'শিক্ষার مب‎ উপাধ্যায় শ্রীমতী 
সূপ্রভা বন্দ্যোপাধ্যায়, fa, বি.টি)কে ঝাড়গ্রাম বানয়াদী শিক্ষণ 7 
.مآ‎ ও শিশ্-মনোবিকাশের উপাধ্যায় পদে যোগদানের ٤> 
হইতে বদাল করা ۱ 


রাজ্যপালের আদেশানহসারে, 
ভি, এম, সেন, 
সাঁচব। 


24-Parganas-Midnapore.—No, 6693Kdn. /4A-6/ 
56.—20th June 1956 —Shrimati Suprova -Banerjee, 
B.A.. B.T., of the West Bengal Junior Educa- 
tional Service, now officiating Lecturer in‘ Educa- 
tion, Post-Graduate Basic Training College, Bani- 
pur, is transferred as [Lecturer in Child Psycho- 
logy and Child Developfient, Basic Training 
College, Jhargram, with effect from the date on 
which she joins there. 


Calcutta,x—No. 6707100 /4A-104/55.—20th June 
1956.—Mr. Eduardo Sacriste is appointed to act af 
Professor of Town and Regional Planning, Benga! 
Engineering College, in the West Bengal جج‎ 
Service with effect from the date on which he joins 
the post, | 


Calcutta.—No. G793Kdn. /14A-72/56.222nd 
June 1956.—Shri ধরার Roy, B.Sc. 
(Hong.), Ist Class — (Glasgow), 1۰ھ‎ 
(10018), Professor anid Head of the Department 
of Applied Mechanics, Bengal Ungineering 
College, ia appointed ty be the 1 rincipal of the 
College in the West engal General Service on 
contract with 61671 from thg 16th May 6 


(afternoon) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


Ren আপ aE STE سو‎ es 
PSS ar সস 


2699 


পা তি‏ دا 


Calcutta,—No. 6850 dn. /2P-102 /56,.—25th 
June 1956.—Shri Tarun Chandra Chatterjee, 1520, 
D.7T.R.P., officiating Jecturer in Town = an: 
Regional Planning, Bengal Engineering College, 
in the West Bengal General Service, is ayspointed 
substantively in that post and in that service with 
effect from the 3lst January 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. M. SEN, Seey. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
WEST BENGAL 
NOTIFICATION 

No. 5802P.8.C.—4th July 1956.-~The results of 
the Kirst Tlalf-Yearly Professional Examination 
of officers of the Irrigation and Waterways 
Department, Government of West Bengal, held 


on the 30th May 1956 are published for general 
information-— 


Name. Sub jects in Still liable in or com- 
which passed. plotely passed. > 
Sourindramohan Deb, Paper II (Written) Passed com pletely. 
Assistant $Execu- and Oral Test. 


tive Engineer, 


P. N. GHOSH, Aast. Secy.. 


Office of the Accountant-General, West Bengal 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Subject :—Correction in the Treasury Rules. 


No. T.M./564.—28th June 1956.—All جاسم دنا‎ 
Officers of the Government of India and 011. 
Treasury and Sub-Treasury Officers in Wert 
Bengal are hereby informed of the following 
correction made in the Central Government Com- 
pilation of the Treasury Rules, Volume IJ (Firat 
dition, Reprint) : 


Page 130—Form T.R. 22.—dAdd the followng 
after the words, “shown in the office copy” at the 
end of certificate No. 5 in this form: 


“and that the emoluments drawn are accord- 
ing to the relevant rules and orders.” 


2. Pending revision of the establishment pay 
bill form, certificate No. 6 thereof should be 
amplified to the above effect in manuscript. 


Vide Correction Slip No. 106 to C.T.R., 
Volume IT). 


P. KHANNA, Dy. Accountant-General.‏ .ہل( 


نی می سم 


Subject :—Statements of remission of revenue and 
abandonment of claims to revenue sanctioned 
during the year 1955-56. 


No. T.M./4565.—2nd July 1956.—Atteution of 
the Heads of Departments (both of the Union 
diovernment and of the State Government) under 
the audit control of this office is invited to para- 
graph 37 of the General Financial Rules, Volume 
1] (in case of affairs of the Union সা 
and iq rule 43 of the West Bengal Financia 
Rules, “Volume 1 (in case of affairs of the State 
(Jovernment), under which the statements 010+ 
tioned therein were due to reach this office by the 
frat week of June 1956. Aa, however, the atate- 
ments with necessary particulars have not been 
received in many cases even up till now, the 
[1690৭ of Departments conecrned are requested 
to furnish the same without any fur- 
ther delay. If a Department haa no 
ease relative to the year « 1905-56 9 to 
report to*Audit, the Jlead ot that Department 
may send o ‘‘Nil’” statement without any delay. 


8. L. BHALLA, Sr. Dy. Accountant-General. 


2700 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Vani 1 


Dee SEY UR 00000001 ۔- پجسمو تھے مس وس کے‎ — bad 
চা এট ০.০ পতি শত 


সোরফ ۱ 
SHERLFF’S OFFICE 
২৬শে অন্ন ১৯৫৬। 


এতদ্বারা সর্বসাধারণকে জানান যাইতেছে যে, আগামী ১৯৬৬ ۹:1 
২৩শে জুলাই, সোমবার aT ১০-৩০ [মানি হইতে যে পর্যন্ত আদালতের 
কার শেষ না হয় ততদিন aoe As পশ্চিমবঙ্গের অধীন ALA 75 
ফৌজদারশ বিচার নিষ্পত্তা জন্য কলিকাতা হাইকোর্টের আপন আদালত 
গৃহে ১৯৫৬ .الم‎ চতুর্থ দায়রা বিচার বিভাগীয় আদালত বাঁসবে 
এবং এতদ্বারা আরও প্রচার ধরা যায় যে, যে সকল Bis কোন কয়েদীর 
face ফৌজদারণ অভিযোগ কাঁরবেন তাঁহারা যেন Ge সময়ে Oe স্থানে 
উপস্থিত থাকেন। 

(ডাঃ) এল, এন, সেন, 


সৌরফ। 


The 26th June 1956. 


Notice is hereby given that the Fourth Criminal 
Gessiona of the year 1956 of the High Court at 
‘nleu(ta in West Bengal for the town of Calcutta 

“vill be held at the Court House on Monday, the 
2910 day of July next, at 10-30 o’clock in the fore- 
noon, and thenceforward from day to day until ihe 
anid sessions be over. And it :ا‎ hereby proclaim- 
ged that all persons who are to prosecpte any of 
the prisoners to he brought wp for trial at the 
said sessions he present~ then and there to 
prosecute. 


(Dr.) ৪. N. SEN, Sheriff. 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTICE 


Appellate Side 


Leave. 


Hooghly.—Ne., 4046A.—25th June 1956.—~Shri 
Ranendra Nath Datta, Subordinate Judge and 
Assistant Sessions Judge of Ifvoghly, is allowed 
earned leave under rule 171(a) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, for six days from the 1111) 
to the 16th June 1956. 


Powers. 


Burdwan.Birbhum-Midnapore. — No. 4176A. — 
29th June 1956.—The Munsifs named in the 
schedule below are vested with the powers of a 
Judge of a Court of Small Causes for the tral 
of suits cognizable by such a Court up to the value 
and within the local limits noted against each :— 


: Schedule ٠ 
Name. Valuo. Local limits. 
Ra. 


1. Shri Bhabesh Chandra 100 Katwa Muneifi. 
Chakrabatti, Munsif, undor 
orders of transfer to Katwa 
(Burdwan). 


2. Shri Pratap Kumar Ghosh, 60 Bolpur Munsifi. 
Munsif, under orders 


of transfer to Bolpur * 
(Birbhum). 7 
8. ×ط8‎ Nani Gopal = Chau- 50 Dunton Munsifi. 


dhuri, Muneif, under orders 
of transfer to Danton 
(Midnapore). 


Burdwan.—No. 4181A.—2&h June 1956. -Shr: 
Bhubesh Chandra Chakrabatti, Munsit, under 
orders of tranefer to Watwa in the district of 
Isurdwan, is vested wilh powers to exercise final 
juri:diction im the trial of suif4 for ae recovery 
of rent under section 163(b) of * thé Bengal 
Tenaney Act, VEEP of 1886. 


SEN, Rezistrar.‏ .© .کا 


ویسصومکسروجپچگمسہہ RED TR OR আপ em er SRN a A RT CE AEE‏ مہے ہا 
ED‏ ”لد পপ ET‏ و نے 00৯ আই‏ رضح 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF 
DIVISIONS 


Burdwan Drvision—Chinsura 


No, L313M.—26th June 1956.—In accordance 
with section 60 of the Bengal Mumieipal Act, 1932 
(Bengal Act XV_ of 1932), it is hereby notified 
jor general information that the Commissioners of 
the Belpur Municipality in the district of Birbhum 
at a special meeting held on 6th June 1900 duly 
elected Shri Tarapnda Roy as Vice-Chairman ot 
the Municipality in place of Shri Radha Krishna 
Singha resigned, 


No. 13819M.—26th June 1956.—In accordance 
with section 50 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1982 
(Bengal Act XV of 1932), it is hereby notified 
tor generrl information that the newly-elected 
Commissioners of the Suri Municipality in the 
district of Birbhum at a meeting held on 3ist May 
1956 duly elected the following gentlemen as the 
Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, respectively, 01 
the Municipality :— 


(1) Shri Debendra Kumar Mukherji+Chair- 
man, 


(2) Shri Debranjan Mukherji—Vice-Chairman. 


No. 1872J.G.—26th June 1956.— Shri Aswint 
Kumer Dutta, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector, Jhaurgram in the district of 
Midnapore, is allowed Jeave on average pay for 
01042) days from 23rd June 1956 to Tih July 1956 
under rule 184(b)(ii) of West Bengul Service 
Rules, Part I, with permission to affix Sunday 
8th July 1956 to the leave. 


9. K. MITTER, 
for Commissioner. 


Presidency Division—Calcutta 


No. 689J.—3rd July 1956.—It is hereby noti- 
fied for general infomation that, In exercise of 
the ,owers conferred by rule 699 of the Bengal 
Jail Code, Volume J, ] do hereby cancel the 
appointment of Maulvi Abu Serajul Rahaman us 
an honorary religious teacher of the Diamond 
Harbour Sub-Jail in the district of 24-Parganas 
made with this office notification No. 10443 . 
dated 7th November 1955. 


No. 690J.—drd July 1956.—It is hereby noti- 
fied for general information that, in exercise of 
the powers 00781611680. by rule 698 of the Bengal 
Jail Code, Volume I, I appoint Shri Kazi Renz- 
uddin to be hennrary religious teacher tor impart- 
ing morygl instructions to the Muhammadan 
prisoners in the Diamond Harbour Sub-Jail صا‎ 
the district of 24-Parganas for a period of two 
years with effect from the date of this notifica- 
tion. 116 should also conduct the Jumma 
prayer tor Muhammaden prisoners. 


K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MACISTRATE OF 
* NADIA 


ORDER 


Dated 27th June 1956. 


চাও if has been brought to my notice that 
na Jargo-scale movement of rice and paddy from 
Indian Union to places outside is being attempted 
across the border areas of this district of Nadia 
and whereas other measures to prevent the same 
have proved 10701010058 and whereas in my opimon 
١ا‎ 1১ necessyfy for maintaining the supply of rice 
and paddy whieh are essential to the life of the 
community to prevent the said movement, J, Shri 
M. C. Mukherjee, Distnet Magistrate, Nadia, In 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1946 2701 


پمممسممووکدوا|دٛسمسموسسوپے 
০৯ ০ এত ০ I ct ES ST TET‏ — 


exercise of the powers conferred on me by order 
No. 6218P/545/50, dated 19th September 1950, 
issued by the Government of West Bengal, Home 
(Political) Department, do hereby order under 
sub-section (1) of section 20 of the West Bengt 
Security Act, 1950, that no person shall anove or 
dransport or cause to be moved or transported or 
offer for movement or transport by rail, road or 
water any rice or paddy to any place within a 
distance of one mile from the border of the Nadia 
district along Mast Pakistan excepting under and 
in accordance with a permit issued in this behalf 
by the Cirele Officers within their respective 
jurisdictions. 

Provided that nothing in this order shall apply 
10 any movement of foodgrains by a person resid- 
ing within the prohibited area for his bona fide 
personal consumption up to one maung at a time. 


This order will remain in force for a period of 
three months with effect from 30th June 1956. 


(tiven under my hand and Seal this 27th day 
of June 1956, 


M. 0. MUKIRIEK, District Magistrate. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR, 24-PARCANAS 


Notice under Act XXX of 1952 
Dated Alipore, the 29th June 1956. 


Whereas notices under the provision to sub- 
section (1) of section 7 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 
(No. XXX of 1952), was issued by the Central 
Government to Shri Bhushan Ch. Bhattacharjee 
and others being the owners of the said properties 
calling upon them to show cause within — the 
period specified therein why the said properties 
should not be acquired; 


And whereas the cuuses shown against the said 
notices have been considered ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers of sub- 
section (1) of section 7 of the said Act, the Central 
Government having been sutisfied that it is neces- 
sary so to do, do hereby acquire the said 1)0- 
perties, 


8 8606 


‘adastral survey plot No. 7200 and_ portions 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 6433, 7121, 
7122, 7168 to 7172, 7181, 7182, 7189, 
7186, 7195, 7197 to 7199, 7201 and 7206 
to 7212 of mauza Ramuagar, jurisdiction 
list No. 97, police-station Baruipur, dis- 
trict 24-Parganaa, measuring 12.4 7 acres 
more or less. 


ILLEGIBLE, for Collector. 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, 
1.B., C.LD., West Bengal 


No. B.3/56.—26th June 1956.—€6.1,D., West 
Bengal.—Shri Rabindra Nath Banarji, [napector 
of Police, (.1.D., West Bengal, proceeded on 
iwenty-one days’ earned leave, with effect from 9th 
June 1956, p.m. 


U. MUKHARJI, Dy. Lugpr.-Genl. 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, 
Central Range 


No, 8650. — 19th June 1956. — Murshidabad- 
C.R.P., Sealdah.—The following transfers and 
postings are ordered temporarily in the interest of 
public service ہس‎ " 


(1) Shri Brojendra Nath Sikdar, Court 
যাতে Murshidabad, to the G.R.P., 
Sealdah, to fill one of the posts sanc- 
tioned in Government order (0. 
P3P-14/56, dated 11/16th April 1996. ٭‎ 


(2) Shri Lakshmi Kanta Chakrabatti, officiat- 
ing Inspector, G.R.P., Sealdah, to 
Murshidabad, rice No. 1. 


No, 1 to move first. 


No, 8791.—26th June 1956.—24-Parganas-Nadija. 
—Shri Deb Kumar Basu Thakur, Inspector, 
24-Purgaunas, under orders of transfer to Nadia, 
is granted fourteen days’ earned leave under rule 
167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, 
in extension, 


M. A. H. MASWOOD, Dy.-Iupr.-Genl. 


Presidency Division—Jalpaiguri 


No. 18451R.G.—2nd July 1956.—Shri Ram 
Prasod Chakravarti, Sub-Deputy Collector and 
Circle Officer, Kaliaganj, West Dinajpur, 13 
giauted earned leave for twenty days under rule 
16711) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, 
with effect from 16th April 1956. 


K. C .BASAK, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MACISTRATE, MALDA 


NOTIFICATION. 


No, 3103G.—26th June 1956.—This office notification No. 21680. dated 
Oth June 1956, is amended as below in respect of the price of soft coke tor 


Old Malda and Samshi:— 


District, Area. Type of 
coal, 
Mulda Old Malda Soft coke .. 
Malda Samshi .» Ditto 


Existing Proportionate Rovised 
price per increase in rate per 
maund Railway maund 
exclusive freight exclusive 
of sales autoneanna of sales tax 
tax. per rupoe. (ox-rotailor’s 
depot). 
Ita. a. Ra. &. Ra. a. 
1 14 0 1 1 15 
* 
1 14 0 1 ] 017 


9. 0. BASU, 
District Magistrate. 


2702 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 


[Varr I 


SSS LL 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, 
Northern Range 

No, 8340—21st June 1956.—Malda.—Shri 
Tribeni Singh, Armed Inspector, Mulda, is 
granted three months’ leave on average pay, un 
medical grounds in extension of the leave already 
eae to him under rule 184(b)(ii) of the Weat 
Jengal Service Rules, Part T, published in noti- 
fication No. 7148, duted 186 December 1955, of 
the Calcutta Gazette, dated 22nd December 195d. 


P. K. BASU, Dy. Inspr.-Genl. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. A/c.22686C.T. /2%/151/55-56.—19th June 
1966.—Shri 0. S. Dhusia, Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Refund Circle, Calcutta, is allowed, under 
the Revised Lenve Rules, 1933, earned leave for 
thirty-eight days with effect from 12th April 1956 
to 19th May 1956 with permission to affix Sunday, 
the 20th May 1956, to the leave. 


Tt is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post from 
Which he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances;- 


No. 9 eee — 23rd June 
966.—Shri R. M. Deb, Income-tax Officer, 
Special Survey Circle V1, Calcutta, is allowed, 
under the Revised [eave Rules, 1933, earned 
lea¥e for twenty-seven days with effect from 25th 
May 1956 to 20th June 1956 with permission to 
prefix holiday, the 24th May 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer is likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


Tt is further certified. that the officer would have 
continued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 
Officer, Class IT, but for his proceeding on above 
earned leave. 


No. A/e.28708C.T. {21/133 /55-56.—21st June 

1956.—Shn J. M. Das, Additional Income-tax 
Officer, 24-Parganas, Calcutta, is allowed, under 
the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned leave for 
forty-one days with effect from 4th June 1956 to 
14th July 1956 with permission to prefix and affix 
Sundays, the drd June 1956 and 15th July 1956, 
respectively, to the leave. 
It is certified that the officer is likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTA, 


ORDERS 

No, 19193848001.) 21404155796. — 25th June 
1956.—Shri 1), (8. Chawla, I.R.S., 4th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District IT(1), Calcutta, is, 
with effect from 8th June 1956 and in addition 
to his own duties, appointed to hold the charges 
of the Ist and 6th Additional Tncome-tax Officer 
of the same district during the absence on leave 
of Shri K. S. Viswanathan, , ۰ 


2. ہ0‎ return from leave, Shri K. ۹. Viswa- 
nathan, I.R.8., Income-tax Officer, will be re- 
posted as Ist and 6th Additional Inconte-tax (ffi- 
cer, District ,(ا)1]‎ Caleutta, relieving Shri D. BR. 
Chawla, T.R.S., 4th Additional Income-tax Offi- 
cer, of these additional charges, 


No, M/28844C.T. /21-105/54-55. — 250) June 
1956.—Shri N. 0. Auddy, 381 Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District VA, Calcutta, is, with effect 
from 21st June 1956 and in addition to his own 
duties, appointed to hold the charge of the 2nd 
Additional Income-tax Officer of the same district 
during the absence on leave of Shri R. 1১. Dobe. 


On return from leave, Shri R. P. Dobe, Income- 
tax Officer, will be re-poated na 2nd Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District VA, Calcutta, reliev- 
ing Shri N. 0. Auddy, 8rd Additional Income-tax 
Officer, of this additional charge. 


No. A/Cs.28858C.'T. /211/ 188/55-56.—25th June 
1956.—In supersession of this office order 
No. A নি 24/188/55-56. dated 19th 
June 1956, Shri R. Kapur, Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District IV(2), Calcutta, is allowed, under 
the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned leave for 
forty-five days with effect from 7th May 1956 to 
20th June 1956 with permission to prefix Sunday, 
the Gth May 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that tho officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the poyt from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post cprrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


No, A/c.24142C.T. /2F/13/53-54.—26th \ June 
1956.—In supersession of this office ‘order 
No. 19879(a)C.T./2E/113/AC/53-54, dated 7th 
June 1956, Mr. A. B. M. Saleh, Income-tax Offi- 
cer, Special Circle II, Calcutta, is allowed, under 
the Revised Leave Rules, 1988, earned leave for 
twenty-four days with effect from 15th May 1956 
to 7th June 1956. 


It is certified that the officer was likely, to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


No. 11 — 26th June 
1956.—Shri (8. N. Bose, Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Companies District 11, Calcutta, is allow- 
ed, under the Revised Jieave Rules, 19:33, earned 
leave for thirty days with effect from 1st June 
1956 to 30th June 1956 with permission to affix 
Sunday, the lst July 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer is likely to 
return, ou the expiry of his leave, to the post from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


S. P. JAIN, )0 1×۰ 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX (CENTRAL), CALCUTTA’ 


ORDERS * 


No. A.3465/C.T.C. /2K-3] /65-56. — 26th June 
1956.—Shni L. Dayal, Income-tax Officer, Central 
Circle IV, Calcutta, is granted under Funda- 
mental Rule 81(b)(ii) leave on avernge pay for 
twenty-nine days with effect from the 4rd July 
1946 to 8lst July 1956. 


2 Shri A. Baksi, Income-tax Officer, Central 
Circle I}, Caleutta, will hold charge of the 
Income-tax Officer, Central Circle [V, Calcutta, in 
addition to his own, vice Shri Dayal granted leave. 


0. [tis certified that on the expiry of his leave, 
Shri Dayal is likely to return to the post from 
which he proceeds on leave or to be posted to a 
post carrying similar rates of pay and allowances. 


No, A.3457/C.T.C. /2E-31 (55-56. — 27th June 
1956.—My order No. 1712A/(.T.C. /2-31 /55-56, 
dated the 14th May 1956, granting leave for one 
month to Shri .ا‎ Dayal, Tneome-tay Officer, 
Central Circle TV, Caleutta, with effect from the 
218৮ May 1946 is hereby cancelled, 


V. 8, K. D. NADAR, Commissioner. 


PART | | LHK CALCUTTA GAZHTIE, JULY 145 1990 1) 


— সপ es ০০০৮ EY دوھہیسب‎ eee শী 


=e 


oes এ بمس‎ 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


(58) No. 7655E.P.A., dated 11th March 5۰ 
(59) No. 7657E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


۰ lla সা (60) No. 7659E.P.A., dated 11th March 1965. 
PROPERTY ACT, 1951, ۸۶یُٰٰ٘")‎ (61) No. 7661E.P.A., dated 118 March 1955. 
NOTICES. (62) No. 7663E.P.A., dated 11th March 1985. 
(1) No. 6181E.P.A., dated 7th March 5۰ (63) No. 7665E.P.A., dated 111) Maren 1958. 
(2) No. 6183E.P.A., dated 7th Marth 1955. (64) No. 7667E.P.A., dated 1161) March 1955. 
(3) No. 6185E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. (65) No. 7669E.P.A., dated ط110‎ March 1958. 
(4) No. 6187E.P.A., dated 7th March 1965. (66) No. 7671E.P.A., dated 11th March 1055. 
(5) No. 6189E.P.A., datod 7th March 1955. (67) No. 7673K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
(6) No. 6191E.P.A., dated 7th March 1055. (68) No. 7676E.P.A., dated 1101) March 1965. 
(7) No. 6193E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. (69) No. 7677E.P.A., dated 1161) March 19565. 
(8) No. 6195E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. (70) No. 7679E.P.A., dated 1161) March 19565. 
(9) No. 6197E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955, (71) No. 7681E.P.A., dated 111) March 1955. 
(10) No. 6199E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. (72) No. 7683E.P.A., dated 110) March 1966. 
(11) No. 7521E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (73) No. 7685E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
(12) No. 7623E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. (74) No. 7687E.P.A., dated 116 March 1955. 
(13) No. 7525K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (75) No. 7689E.P.A., dated 11th June 195. 
(14) No. 7527E.P.A., dated 11th March 1965. (76) No. 7691K.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. 
(15) No. 7529K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (77) No. 7693E.P.A., dated lth March 1955. 
(16) No. 7531E.P.A., dated 116) March 1955. (78) No. 7695E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
(17) No. 75633E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (79) No. 7697E.P.A., dated Ith March 1955. 
(18) No. 7635K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (80) No. 7699E.P.A., dated 116 March 1956. 
(19) No. 7637E.P.A., dated ط110‎ March 1955. (81) No. 7701E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. 
(20) No. 7539E.P.A., dated 11th Murch 1955. 747 وو امیس اوس‎ 
(21) No. T5641 E.P.A,, dated llth March 1955. (83) No. T705E.P.A., dated llth March 19565. 
(22) No. 7543E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. ০8584 ভা سا‎ 
(23) No. 7545B.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (85) No. 7709E.P.A., dated 1107 March 1956. 
(24) No. 7547E.P.A., +0 8 
(25) No. 7549E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955, (87) No. 7713E.P.A., dated 11 March 1955. 
(26) No. 7551E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (88) No. 7715E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 
(27) No. 7553E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. ee 2 
(28) No. 7555E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. سو‎ 
(99) No. 7557H.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. (91) No. 11001E.P.A., dated 2156 March 1955, 
(30) No. 7559E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (92) No. 11008E.P.4., dated 2195 March 1008. 
(31) No. 7561E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. (93) No. 11002E.P.A., dated 2Ist March 1956. 
(32) No. 7563E.P.A., dated 11th March 19585. (94) No. 11007E.P.A., dated 2188 March 1955. 
(33) No. 7565E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (95) No. 11009E.P.A., dated 2190 March 1855. 
(34) No. 7667E.P.A., dated 11th March 1966. (96) No. IO1IE.P.A., dated 2195 March 1955. 
(35) No. 7560E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. bl ot ave امہ ماس وید چا‎ 
36) No. 7869E.P.A., dated 11th March 1065۰. ; pores ٠ 
st No. سو‎ dated 11th March 5۰ 8 ورس‎ 79, 
(38) No. 7615E.P.A., dated 1th March 1955. (100) No. 11019E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(30) No. 7617E.P.A., dated 11th Murch 1966, (101) No. 11021E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(40) No. 7619E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (102) No. 11023E.P.A., dated 2186 March 5۰ 
(41) No. 7621E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (103) No. 11025E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(42) No. 7623E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (104) No, 11037E.-A., dated 21st March 1055. 
(43) No, 7625E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 10515177678 88 
(44) No. 7627E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (106) No. 11031 E.P.A., dated 21st March 19565. 
(45) No. 7620K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (107) No. 11033E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
(46) No. 7631E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (108) No. 11035E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
(47) No. 7633E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (109) No. 11849771১47) dated 2186 March 5۰ 
(48) No, 7635K.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. (110) No. L861E.P.A., dated 21st March 1965. 
(49) No. 7637E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. (111) No. 11863F.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(50) No. 7630E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (112) No. 11855E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(51) No. 7641E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. (113) No. 11857E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(2) No, 7643E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (114) No. 11869E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(53) No. 76451.P.A., dated 11th March 1055. (115) No. 11861K.P.A., dated 21st March 1056. 
(64) No, 7647E.P.A., dated 11th مود‎ sui (116) No. 11863B.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
ڈ‎ ۱ ? 
on সপ লস্ট পর ie weak ote (117) No. 12221E.P.A., dated 2lst March 1955. 
(57) No, 7603E,P.A., dated 11th March 1955. (118) No, 12223E,P,A., dated 2155 March 1055, 


2104 


THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 


[Vani 1 


(119) No. 
(120) No. 
(121) No. 
(122) No. 
(123) No. 
(124) No. 
(125) No. 
(126) No. 
(127) No. 
(128) No. 
(129) No. 
(130) No. 
(131) No. 
(132) No. 
(199) No. 
(134) No. 
(135) No. 
(136) No. 
(137) No. 
(138) No. 
(139) No. 
(140) No. 
(141) No. 
(142) No. 
(143) No. 
(144) No. 
(145) No. 
(146) No. 
(147) No. 
(148) No. 
(149) "No. 
(150) No. 
(151) No. 
(152) No. 
(153) No. 
(154) No. 
(155) No. 
(166) No. 
(157) No. 
(158) No. 
(159) No. 
(160) No. 
(161) No. 
(162) No. 
(163) No. 
(164) No. 
(165) No. 
(166) No. 
(167) No. 
(168) No. 
(169) No. 
(170) No. 
(171) No. 
(172) No. 
(173) No. 
(174) No. 
(175) No. 
(176) No. 
(177) No. 
(178) No. 
(179) No. 
(180) No. 
(181) No. 


12297E.P.A., dated 2186 March 19565. 


12200.7۸, dated 2lst Rarch 1955. 


12301E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12303E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
6379E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955, 
6381E.P.A., dated 7th March 19585. 
6383E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6385E.P.A., dated 7th March 1965. 
6387E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6389E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6391E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6393E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6395E.P.A., dated 7th March 19585. 
6397E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6399E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6401E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6403E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6405E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6407E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6409E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6411E.P.A., dated 7th March 19565. 
6413E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 
6415E.P.A., dated 7th March 1928. 
12225E.P.A.; dated 218৮ March 1955. 
12227E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12229E.P.A., dated 2156 March 1955. 


12231E.P.A.,.edated 21st March 1955. 
12233E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 
12235E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12237E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1956. 


12239E.P.A., dated 2196 March 1955. 


12241E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12243E.P.A., dated 219৮ Mareh 1955. 


12245E.P.A;:; dated 2196 March 1955. 
12247E.P.A., dated 2196 March 1955. 
12249E.P.A., dated 2qst March 1955. 
14451E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


12253E.P.A., dated 21st March 9155. 


12255E.P.A., dated 218৮ March 1955. 
12257E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12259E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
12261E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
12263E.L.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


12265E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
12267E.P.A., dated 2186 March 19565. 


12269E.P.A., dated 2168٦ March 1955. 
12271E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
12275E.P.A., dated 2180 March 1955. 
12277E.P.A., dated 2156 March 1955. 


12279E.L.A., dated 218 March 19565. 


12281E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1956. 
12283E.P.A., dated 218٦ March 1956. 
12285E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12287E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12289E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
12291E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12203E.P.A., dated 21st March 19565. 
12295E.P.A., dated 2186 March 19565. 
12305E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
12307E.P.A., dated 21st March 19৮5, 
12309E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955, 
12311E.L.A,, dated 2196 March 1955, 
12313E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


(182) No. 12315E.P.A., dated 218: March 1955. 
(183) No. 12317E.P.A., dated 2ist March 1955. 
(184) No. 12319E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 
(185) No. 12363E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 
(186) Nb. 12365E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
(187) No. 12367E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(188) No. 123@3E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(189) No. 12371E.P.A., dated 21st March 1956. 
(190) No. 12373E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
(191) No. 12375E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(192) No. 12377E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 
(193) No. 12379E.P.A., dated 2196 March 19565. 


Notice is hereby given that the evacuee property / 
properties @escribed in the scheduled below has/have 
vested in the Evacuce Property Management Com- 
mittes for West Bengal under sub-section (4) of section 
17 of the West Bengal Evacuec Property Act, 1951 
(West Bengal Act V of 1951):— 


(1) No. 6181E.P.A., dated 7th March 19§5. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagan}, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 202, Plot No. 723, 
Owner—Shri Madin Mullick. 


(2) No. 6183E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955: 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 114, Plot No. 822, 
Owner—Shri Bhul Chand Mondal. 


(3) No. 6185K.P.A., daked 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 77, Plot No. 955, 
Owners—Shri Maherali and others. 


(4) No. 6187E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 86, Plot No. 7065, 
Owners—Shri Hakim Mondal and others. ° 


(5) No. 6189E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 50, Plot No. 706, 
Ownerse—Shri Hakim and others. 


(6) No. 6191E.P.A., dated 7th March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 202, Plot No. 893, 
Owners—Shri Handu and others. 


(7) No. 6193E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. I, No. 21, Khatian No. 48, Plot No. 880, 
Owners—Shri Patu and others. 


(8) No. 6195E.P.A., dated 6th March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kaya, 
J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 79, Plot No. 1007, 


Owners—Shri Takibat Sardar an others. 


(9) No. 6197E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kaya, 
J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 79. Plot No. 1007, Owners— 
Shri Takibat Sardar and othors. 


(10) No. 6199E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kaya, 
J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 146, Plot Nos. 36, 37, Owners 
—Shri Hadaraddin Biswas and others. 


Parr T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


2706 


١إ‎ aaa a سس سشسسسطہہڈوچوچچےچ‎ 


(11) No. 7521E.P.A., dated 1161) March 1955. 


Districh Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Maura 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 320, Plot No. 
1730, Owner—Shri Chaimaddin Hualsana. 


9 
(12) No. 7528E.P.A., dated 110) March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 49. Plot No. 375, 
Owner—Shri Chiraddin Mandal. 


(13) No. 7525E.P.A., dated 110) March 1958. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 105, Plot No. 373, 
Owner—Shri Sahadali Biswas. 


(14) No. 7527E.P.A., dated 11th Mareh 1956. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 41, Plot No. 403, 
Owner—Shri Abjal Hossain. 


(15) No. 7529K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, ۵۶ 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 105, Plot No. 372, 
Ownor—Shri Shadali Bigwas. 


(16) No. 7531E.P.A., dated 110) March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Katimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. 14. No. 143, Khatian No. 8, Plot No. 1938, 
Owner—Shri Chaimiddin Halsana, 


(17) No. 7533E.P.A., dated 1161) March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 153, Khatinn No. رڈ‎ Plot No. 
1995, Owner—Shri Chaimaddin Halsana. 


(18) No. 7535E.P.A., dated 1161) March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 320, Plot No. 
1736, Owner—Shri Chaimaddin Halsana. 


(19) No. 7537E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 61, Plot No. 
1739, Owner—Shri Chaimaddin Halsana. 


(20) No. 7539E.P.A., dated 11th March 1960. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 381, Plot No. 
1111, Owner—Shri Abdul Gafur 99৮৯, 


(21) No. 75641E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Kotwali, 718 05৪, 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 498, Plot No. 
2166, Owner—Shri Dalai Shekh. 


(22) No. 7543E.P.A., dated 116 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Subar- 
nubehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 1336, Plot No. 671, 
Owner—Shri Chabahan Sheak. 


(23) No. 7545E.P.A., dated 11th March 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 8 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 426, Plot No. 
2200, Owner—Shri Khatu Mondal. 


(24) No. 7547E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955+ 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza ~ 


Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatiun No, 69, Plot No. 727, 
Qwner—Shri Bachiruddin Mondal, 


(25) No. 7549E.P.A., dated 116 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 560, Plot 
No. 2172, Owner—Shri Bakul Bowara. 


(26) No. 7551E.P.A., dated lth March 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 775, Plot No. 
2626, Owner—Shri Ebrahim Biswas. 


(27) No. 7553E.P.A., dated 11th March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 263, Plot No. 1856, 
Owners—Shri Bhadu and others. 


(28) No. 7555E.P.A., dated llth March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 367, Plot No. 
3162, Owner—Shri Ebrahim Biswas. 


(29) No. 7557E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabchair, J. L. No. 54; Khatian No. 1322, Plot 
No. 670, Owner—Shri Ashiruddin Shoak. 


(30) No. 7559E.P.A., dated 11th March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 891, Plot 
No. 3278, Owners—Shri Nur Muhammad and others. 


(31) No. 7561E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauze 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 128, Plot No. 483, 
Owners—Shri Maher Abu Mandal and others. 


(32) No. 7563E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 105, Plot No. 373, 
Owner—Shri Sadali Biswas. 


(33) No. 7565E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 105, Plot No. 355, 
Owner—Shri Sahdali. 


(34) No. 7567E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 61, Plot No. 19, 
Owner—Shri Khokai Biswas. 


(35) No. 7569E.P.A., dated 110 March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 7, Plot No. 66, 
Owners—Shri Abu Hossen Mandal and others. 


(36) No. 7869E.P.A., dated 1160 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Falbari, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 61, Plot No. 1815, 
Owners—Shri Akbar and others. 


(37) No. 7613E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 129, Plot No. 153, 
QOwnors —Shri Abbash Mondal and others. 


(38) No. 7615E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 76, Plot No. 1182, 
Owner—Shri Meher Ali Mondal., 


2106 


THE CAISUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Tarr I 


সস oO. 


(39) No. 7617E.P.A., dated 116 March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 140, Plot No. 255, 
Owner—Shri Tacher Mondal. 


(40) No. 7619E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 172, Plot No. 248, 
Owner—Shri Meher Ali Sardar. 


(41) No. 7621E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 498, Plot No. 
2088, Owners—Shri Dalai Sheak and others. 


(42) No. 7623E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 1366, Plot 

No.559, Owner—Shri Sariwat Sheak. : 


(43) No. 7625E.P.A., dated 11th Maroh 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 1368, Plot 
No. 205, Owner—Shri Shopa Sheak. 


(44) No. 7627E P.A.;datad 1185 March 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabchair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 642, Plot No. 
3337, Owners—Shri Huramat Ali Mandal and others. 


(45) No. 7629K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 589, Plot 
No. 2116, Owners—Shri Moyjaddin Mondal and others. 


(46) No. 7631E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 
District Nadia, Poliee-station Kotwail, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 1011, Plot 
No. 2120, Owner—Shri Barauddin. 


(47) No. 7633E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Subar- 
nabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 1526, Plots Nos. 
2254, 2255, Owners—Shri Kanai Mandal and others. 


(48) No. 7635E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 

Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 1011, Plot 
No, 2127, Owner—Shri Badaruddin. 


(49) No. 7637E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Kamarhati, J. L. No. 16, Khatian No. 87, Plot No. 1035, 
Owner—Shrimati Gidari Bibi. 


(60) No. 7639E.P.A., dated 1160 March 1955, 
District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 812, Plot No. 
4480, Owner—Shri Abdul Gaful Shaikh. 


(51) No. 7641K.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 212, Plot No, 
1332, Owner—Shri Abdul Gafur Sheikh. 


(52) No. 7643E.P.A., dated 11th March 1055, 
District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121 Khatian No. 161, Plot No, 
1829, Owner—Shri Kalachand Mystrey, 


(94) No. 7645E.P.A., dated 1101) March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-statidn Kotwali, Mauza 
Purba-bhatjangla, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No, 272, 
Plot No. 433, Owner—Shri Khajer Ahamed Biswas. 


(54) No. 7647E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Purba-bhatjangla, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 272, 
Plot No. 572, Owner—Shri Khajer Ahamod Biswas. 


(55) No. 7649E.P.A., dated 710) March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Purba-bhatJangla, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 272, 
Plot No. 775, Owner—Shri Khajer Ahamed Biswas. 


(56) No. %651E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Purba-bhatJangla, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 272, 
Plot No. 315, Owner—Shri Khajer Ahamed Biswas. 


(57) No. 7653E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Naldah, J. L. No. 99, Khatian ‘No. 705, Plot No. 8441, 
Ownor—Shri Faraj Ali Shaikh. 


(68) No. 7655E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Uttar-Tajpur, J. L. No. 154, Khatian No. 169, Plot No. 
296, Owner—Shri Rafizuddin Mandal. 


(59) No. 7657E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Naldah, J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 705, Plot No. 1437, 
Owner—Shri Faraj Ali Mondal. 


(60) No. 7659E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 753. Plot 
No. 2790, Owner—Shri Chakimuddin Shoikh. 


(61) No. 7661E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza Anan- 
dapur, J. L. No. 143. 


Khatian N ০. Plot No. 
753 2823 
703 : 2826 


Owner—Shri Chakimuddin Shoikh. 


(62) No. 7663E.P.A., dated 110) March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Avandapur, J. L. No. 148, Khatian No, 272, Plot 
No. 2844, Owner—Shri Abdul Gofur Sheikn. 


(63) No. 7665K.P.A., dated 11th March 1055. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 242, Plot 
No, 4555, Owner—Shri Abdul Gofur Sheikh, 


(64) No, 7667E,P,A., dated 1108 March 1965, 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Anandapur, J. L. No. 143, Khatian No. 381, Plot 
No. 1287, Owner-—Shri Abdul Gofur Sheikh. 


Pang T] 


سس ےمم 


(65) No. 7669E.P.A., dated 11:3 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauzp 


Anandapur, J. 1. No. 143. 


Khatian No. Plot No. 
703 2396 
753 2397 


Owner-—Shri Chakimuddin Sheikh. 


(68) No. 7671E.P.A., dated 11) March 19568. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 645, 
Plot No. 2150, Owners—Shri Meshi Mondal and others. 


(67) No. 7673E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 129, Plot 
No. 13, Owner—Shri Ajaher Ali Biswas. 


(68) No. 7675E.P.A., dated 11th March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnugunj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 129, Plot No.10, 
Owner@—Shri Insan Biswas and others. 


(69) No. 7677E.P.A., dated 1107) March 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj Mauza 
Shakdsh, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 129, Plot No. 10, 
Owners—Shri 11800) Biswas and others. 


(70) No. 7679E.P.A., dated 1161) March 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mavza 
Shakdan,J.L.No. 21,Khatian No. 138, Plot No. 370, 
Ownor—Shri Jahar Mandal. 


(71) No. 7681E.P.A., dated 1161) March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauze 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 105, Plot No 383, 
Ownor—Shri Abu Hoasain. 


(72) No. 7683 E.P.A., dated 11606 March 1956. 


Distriit Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Maura 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 498, Plot 


No. 2165, Ownor—Shri Dolai Shekh. 


(73) No. 7685E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 1014, 


Plot No. 2090, Owners—Shri Mayzaddin and others. 


۲ 


(74) No. 7687E.P.A., datod 1161) March 1955 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Suburnabehair, J. L. 1০. 54, Khatian No. 429, 
Plot No. 2167, Owner—Shrimati Naitan Bibi. 


(75) No. 7680E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Maura 
Subarnabohair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 567, 
Plot No. 2330, Owner—Shri Mehar Shvikh. 


é 
(76) No. 7691E.P.A., datod 1161 March 19656. 
District Nadia, Polico-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Nibarnabehair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 677, 
Plot No. 2123, Owner—Shri Ayachhin Mandal. 


(77) No. 7603E.P.A., dated 11th March 19656. 

District Nadia, Polico-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Subarnabehuir, J. ہلآ‎ No. 64, Khatian No. 582, 
Plot No. 2333, Ownors—Shri Mayzuddin Mandal 
and others, 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 S707 
(78) No. 7605E.P.A., dated 1161) March 1956. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mausza 
Subarnubohair, J. L. No. 54, Khatian No. 645, 
Plot No. 2150, Owonrs—Shri Meshi Mandal and 
others. 
(79) No. 7697E.P.A., dated llth March 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-atation Kotwaili, 
Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 
Plot No. 


Mauza 
54, Khatian No. 497, 
2027, Owner—Shri Deljean Sheikh. 


(80) No. 7699E.P.A., dated 1165 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Kotwali, 
Subarnabohair, J. L. No. 


Mauza 
54, Khatian No. 923. 


Plot No. 2037, Ownors—Shri Manoraddin Baidya and 

others. 

(81) No. 7701E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 


Subarnabehair, J. L. No. 64, Khatian No. 1040, 
Plot No. 2074, Ownor-—Shri Shabur Sheikh. 


(82) No. 7703E.P.A., dated 11+14 March 19565, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbari, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 61, Plot No. 
1815, Owners—Shri Akbar and others. 


(83) No. 7705E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 653, Khatian No. 365, Plot No. 
1592, Owner—Shri Bhadu Mondal. 


(84) No. 7707E.P.A., dated 11th March 1055. 


District Narlia, Police-station Krishuaganj, Mauza 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 200, Plot 
No. 1588, Owner—Shri Fatik Mondal. 


(85) No. 7709E.P.A., dated 1101) March 1925. 


District Nadia, Police-station 70091755080], Mauza 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 851, Plot 
No. 1581, Owners—Shri Hazari Mondal and others. 


(86) No. 7711E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 01805 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 102, Plot No. 
1807, Owners—Shri Huzurali and othors. 


(87) No. 7713E.P.A., dated llth March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Maura 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 777, Plot 
No. 1630, Owners—Shri Hazari Molla and others. 


(88) No. 7716E.P.A., dated 11th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbaria, J. L. No. 53. 


Khatian No. Plot No. 
215 1813 
593 1862 


Ownore—Shri Bhadu and othors. 


(89 )No. 7717E.P.A., davod llth March 10665. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbari, J. I. No. 53, Khatian No. 263, Plot No, 
1856, Ownors--Shri Bhadu and others. 


(90) No. 7719E.P.A., dated Ith March 1955. 

District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbari, J. 1, No. 53, Khatian No. 173, Plot No. 
1560, Ownors—Shri Akbar Mondal and others. 


2708 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Vane 1 


SS‏ شڈ رر تے۔۔ 


(91) No. 1l1001E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. .ا‎ No. 121, Khatian No. 619, 
Plot No. 350, Owner—Shri Nurbox Mondal. 


(92) No. 11003E.P.A., dated 2156 March 1955. 


» dDistrict Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
বকা J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 927, 
Plot No. 1547, Owner—Shri Nurbox Mondal. 


(93) No. 11005E.P.A., dated 2186 March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 108, 
Plot No. 238, Owner—Shri Khedu Mondal. 


11007E.P.A., dated 21st March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 108, 
Plot No. 241/0, Owner—Shri Khedu Mondal. 


(94) No. 


(95) No. LIOO9E.P.A., datod 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 1091, 
Plot No. 27610, Owner—Shri Nurbox Mondal. 


11011 .P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 14911, 
Plot No. 1482/1, Owner—Shri Nurbox Mondal. 


(96) No. 


11013E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Maura 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 114, 
Plot No. 300, Owner—Shri Khedu Mondal. 


(97) No. 


(98) No. 11016E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 108, 
Plot No. 189, Owner—Shri Khedu Mondal. 


(99) No. lIOI7E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Kechuadanga, J. L. No. 121, Khatian No. 114, 
Plot No 336, Owner—Shri Khedu Mondal. 


(100) No. 11019E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 206, Plot 
No. 963, Owners—Shrimati Hamidan Bibi and others. 


(101) No. 11021E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 115, Plot 
No. 632, Owner—Shri Idu Halsana. 


(102) No. 11023E.P.A., dated 21st March 19655. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 41, Plot 
No. 647, Owners—Shri Sonai Mondal] and others. 


(103) No. 11025E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 50, Plot 
No. 630, Ownors—Shri Hakim Mondul and othors. 


(104) No. 11027E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1855. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 48, Plot No. 
1005, Owners—Shri Kekat and others. 


(105) No. 11029E.P.A., dated 2lst March 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj 

۱ : ganj, 4 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 50, Plot 
No, 630, Owners—Shri Hakim Mondal and others. 


(106) No. 1I031E.P.A., dated 2156 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, M 
; 1, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 188, Plot No. 
1148, Owner—Shri Bhul Chand Mondal. 


(107) No. 11033E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 104, Plot 
No. 633, Qwnors—Sbri Eajaher and others. 


(108) No. 11035E.P.A., dated 2108 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdaha, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 116, Plot 
No. 632, Owners—Shri Iduhalsana and others. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj,\ Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 228, t No. 
3998, Area-40, Owner—Shri Mandari. 


(109) No. 11849F.P.A., dated 21st سا‎ 


(110) No. 11851E.P.A., dated 21st March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Joygnata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 
2735, ۸۲6۸۰98, Owner—Shri Panju. 


(111) No. 11853E.P.A., dated 92186 March 58۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Jayghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 173, Plot No. 
2744, Area -59, Owner—Shri Khokay Mondal. 


(112) No. 11855E.P.A., dated 215 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Jayghata, J. 44 No. 8, Khatian No. 230, Plot No. 
No. 3717, Area ۰94 Owner—Shri Banatali Baidy. 


(113) No. 11857E.P.A., dated 2let March 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station, Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 31, Plot No. 
2716/40287 Area ۰09, Owner—Shri Keramat. 


(114) No. 11859E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955, 


District Nadia: Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Jayghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 31, Plot 
No. 2715, Area 1-00, Owner—Shri Keramat. 


(115) No. 11861E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police‘station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Jayghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 619, Plot 
No. 3466, Area ۰44, Owner—Shri Saiuddin Biswas. 


(116) No. 11863E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Jayghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 236, Plot 
No. 3359, Area -16, Owner—Shri Rashik Mir. 


(117) No. 12221E.P.A., dated 2189 March 1956. 

District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Chandrakhali, J. L. No. 149, Khatian No. 60, Plot No. 
295, Area ۰۹42, Owner—Shri Hajarat Ali Mandal. 


(118) No. 12223E.P.A., dated 21st March 1001 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Fulbari, J. L. No. 53, Khatian No. 95, Plot No. 1620, 
Owner—Shri Basis Mandal. 


1111] THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 709 


টি... ne INV Reena 


সপ‏ سے ہا 


٠ 
(119) No. 12297E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat) 


Mauza Chakandhara, J. L. No. 31. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
137 713 4-50 
194 799 33 

90/2 196 50 
35 197 34 
35 198 30 
6] 199/475 17 
140 476 ٠۰60 
133 499 «20 
179 661 *82 

"186 370 80 
185 461 1-16 
135 473 "3 
102 746 1-00 
100 807 33 
117 593 -66 
135 499 +49 


Owner—Shri Moti Mondal. 


(120) No. 12290E.P.A., dated 2196 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 


Mauza Chakandhara, J. L. No. 311. 


Khatian No. Plot No. 4108, 
9012 247 2.00 
9012 247 2°00 

31 170 70 
81 200 69 
81 203 1-33 
177 243 1-00 
177 208 50 
157 158 1-00 
48 555 1:00 
50 662 40 
50 660 66 
50 55) 66 
31 200 50 
1/3 600 40 
36 199 17 
142 206 -20 
138 681 ১20 
142 207 ১90 
35 198 “17 
90/2 196 -50 
3] 200 0ء‎ 
35 197 “17 
105 221 -49 
30 261 66 
3] 518 0ء‎ 


Owner—Shiri Kalamuddin Mondal, 


(121) No. 1230] E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Polico-station Balurghat 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
356 1702 -10 
356 1703 14 
408 1740 05 
408 1741 ১08 
408 1742 -16 
408 1753 -19 
408 1754 22 
408 1756 98ء‎ 
408 1706 20 
391 1767 28 
232 1840 * 233 
233 1844 -37 
236 1934 :7 
130 262 28 


Owner—Shri Baksha Mondal. 


(122) No. 12303E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Dhaul, J. L. No. 103, Khatian No. 17, Plot No. 
123, Area 1-25, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mandal. 


(123) No. 6379E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Sabra Shyampur, J. L. No. 309. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
40 535 ٠.0 
16 224 1-66 


Owner—Shri Afiruddin. 


(124) No. 6381E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat 
Mauza Dhakinagar, J. L. No. 313. 


28 67 -66 

11 7 °33 

44 15 1-00, 
Owner—Shri Jahiruddin. 


(125) No. 6383E.P.A., dated 7th March 19565. 


District West Dinajpur, Police- station Balurghat, 
Mauza Sabra Shyampur, J. L. No. 309. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
115 692 1-00 

161 617 ٠4 

33 721 «26 

31 1130 33 

94 80 1:00 


Owner—Shri Abdul Mondal. 


2710 THE CAIXUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


(126) No. 6385E.P.A, dated 7th March 1955, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Sabra Shyampur, J. 8০ No. 309. 


Khatian No. Plot Mo. Area, 
70 524 2°33 
133 500 $3 
33 720 66 


Owner—Shri Tasi Mondal. 


(127) No. 6387E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Sabra Shyampur, J. L. No. 309, Chak-Raina 88. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
113 573 33 

69 96 1-33 

101 510 50 

50 115 78 


Owner—Shri Tasiruddin. —~ - 


(128) No. 6389E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Dhakinnagar, J. L. No. 313. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
22 50 83 
44 110 66 
28 67 33 
30 125 33 


Owner—Shri Shyamser Mondal. 


(129) No. 6391E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat 
Mauza Dhakinnzgar, J. L. No. 313. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
38 119 33 
4 86 06ء‎ 
44 15 ۰٥6 


Owner—Shri Jahira Mondal. 


(130) No. 6393E.P.A., dated 7th March 19565. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 
Sabra Shyampur, J. L. No. 309. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

33 720 66 
27 1129 33 
42 506 1-00 

5 34 1-24 
44 608 60 
113 671 1-00 
121 658 ১236 


Qwner—Shri Bahar Mondal. 


[Parr I 


(131) No. 6395E.P.A., dated 7th March 1050, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza, 
«Sabra Shyampur, J. L. No. 309. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
101 « 264 ১৮0 
37 55 1-38 


Qwner—Shri Sayod Ali Mondal. 


(132) No. 6397E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza, 
Majdia, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No, 175, Plots Nos. 304, 
1528, Owner—Shri Taju Mondal. 


(133) No. 6309E.P.A., dated 7th March 19565. 


[08106 Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, ,Mauza 
Majdia, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 274, Plot No, 336: 
Owners—Shri Mojaher Mondal and others. 


(134) No. 6401E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955\ 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Majdia, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 105, Plot No, 376, 
Owners—Shri Amodhali Mondal and others. 


(135) No. 6403E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Majdia, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 181, Plot No. 956, 
Owners—Shri Mohar Mondal. 


(196) No. 64058.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Majdia, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 52, Plot No. 717, 
Owner—Shri Bhalai Mondal. 


(137) No. 6407E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Chak Andhara, J. L. No. 811. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Aroa. 

135 450 * 3 

0 788 ১20 

35 199 | 17 

179 633 16 

61 475 ১৪০ 

123 492 * 82 

°33 سس 31 

143 205 ১03 

34 203 09 

34 204 °33 

14 144 “50 

31 201 40 

31 2 ৯06 

Owner—Shri Saha Mondal. 


(188) No. 6409E.P.A., datede 7th March 1900. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Chinghispur, J. L. No. 397, Khatian No. 70, Plot 
No, 443, Arca 5 Owner—Shyi Salimuddin Mondal. 


Part I] 


(139) No. 6411E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 
Chinghispur, J. L. No. 397, 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
16 1504 437 
18 1504 48ء‎ 
18 1498 *3$ 
Owner—Shri Masir Fakir, 


(140) No. 6413E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat; 
Mauza Chinghispur, J. L. No. 397. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
97 437 25 
144 439 ۹ء‎ 
144 444 1-37 


Owner—Shri mati Bibijan. 


(141) No. 6415E.P.A., dated 7th March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-rtation Balurghat. 


Mauze. J. L. No. وس وی‎ Plot No. Area. 
০, 
Chinghispur تس‎ 397 » 216 1448 35 
397 216 1384 49 
397 44 1350 “99 
397 206 1397 1-12 
297 205 1432 03 
Malancha we 144 117 597 -90 


Owner—Shri Hossain Ali Monsal. 


(142) No. 12225E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Gobindpur, J. L. No. 101, Khatian No. 1], Plot 
No. 16, Area ١44, Owner—Shri Jamir Boxa Mondal. 


(143) No. 12227E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Chamta, J. L. No. 100. 


Khatiun No. Plot No. Area. 
۲ 14 রর *49 
۲ 72 “79 
Owner—Shri Eman Ali Mondal. 


(144) No. 122290K.P.., dated 2186 March 1966. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station 
J.L.No. Khatian Plot No. 49, 


Balurghat, 


Mauza. 


No. ৪ 
Trikul و‎ 16 59 447 "69 
59 448 94 
Shabra Shyampur 309 163 527 166 
101 364 ٠:6 
7 386 
Owner—Shri Tachiruddin Mondal. 


(145) No. 12231E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Mamna, J. L. No. 98. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
31 5 13 
31 99 22 
Owner—Shrimati Joymoni Bibi. 


(146) No. 12233E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Kudran, J. L. No. 96, Khatian No. 15, Plot No. 
890, Area ۰56, Owner—Shrimati Kabiran Bibi. 


THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 2111 


পাস 


(147) No. 12235E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dina jpur, Polico-station Balurghat. 


Mauza. J.L. Khatian Plot 419, 
No. No. No. 
Chamta ne 100 4 138 68 
Chak Harina . 88 66 60 66 
Owner—Shri Achiruddin. 


(148) No. 12237E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurgh 
Mauza Gobindapur, J. L. No. 101, اس‎ 


Khatian No, Plot No. Area. 
36 49 3-85 
49 35 


Owner—Shrimati Maydhan Bibi. 


(149) No. 12239E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955, 
District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 


Mauza Gangasagar, J. 1 No. 93 Khatian No. 56, Pl 
»U. 4০ No. 93, . 00, 1105 
No. 12, Area ‘62, Owner—Shri Chabaluddin Sha Mondal. 


(160) No. 12241E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area, 
154 266 *48 

424 207 ٠.4 

1ء 272 230 


Owner—Shri Aziz Mandal. 


(151) No. 12243E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Bal hat 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. acne 


Khatian No, Plot,No. Area, 
20 255 -07 
20 256 -09 
140 259 21 
229 263 -16 
154 265 48 
Owner—Shri Dasir Mandol. 


(152) No. 12245E.P.A., dated 21st March 1986. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
eMauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
60 385 42 
228 389 48 
230 390 ১20 
Ownor—Shri Madar Mandol. 


(153) No. 12247E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 
Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
376 1570 “99 
196 621 38 
276 589 $2 
274 507 13 
141 192 62 
141 198 1 
140 675 *30 


Owner—Shri Sagar Mandol. 


2712 


(154) No. 12249E.P.A., dated 219) March 1955. 
District West Dinajpur, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 (Parr I 
eee e_oOoO lll ll ee, 


Police-stution Balurghat, 


Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
97 2581 “12 

97 2589 -20 

104 2596 33 

228 2546 33 

154 2498 25 

154 2595 48 

228 2044 8 

154 2498 "15 


Owner—Shri Insan Mandal. 


(155) No. 12251E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station 


Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
168 2343 28 
84 2206 49 
26 2338 °37 
26 2339 09ء‎ 
20 2326 592 
909 2348 1 -00 


Owner—Shri Madan Mandol. 


Balurghat, 


¢ 
(159) No. 12259E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955, 


District West Dinajpur, Pdlice-station Balurghag,. 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


» Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

08 1921 تا 

8ءء 1932 236 

6ء 2036 283 

233 , 2088 17 

408 2080 15 

2ء 2082 408 

48 369 ٠.0 

8ء 406 280 

16 467 1 

Owner—Shri Chitu Mondal. 


(160) No. 12261E.P.A., dated 318+ March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat,. 
Mauza Kismath Ramkrishnapur, J. L. No. 398, Khatian 
a Bh, Plot No. 504, Area -50, Owner—Shri Amin 

ondal. 


(161) No. 12263E.P.A., dated 219 March 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390, Khatian No. 11%, Plot 
No. 23, Area 1-41, Owner—Shri Garibulla Mondal. 


(162) No. 12265E.P.A., dated 218٦ March 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Kismath Ramkrishnapur, J. L. No. 398. 


(156) No. 12258E.P.A., dated 81 March 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-staiotn Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
24 98 *42 
60 2379 43 
268 480 4] 
268 481 3 


Owner—Shri Shejabali Mandol. 


(157) No. 12255E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, 


Police-station Balurghat, 


Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
60 2366 “14 
60 2367 19 
60 2363 “12 
27 421 0ء‎ 
27 424 -61 
Owner—Shri Meherbox Mandol. 


(168) No. 12257E.P.A., dated 21৪৮ Mareh 1955. 
District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghet, 


Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
359 2175 ১26 
363 2219 26 
140 2254 0ء‎ 
370 2257 “19 
201 604 “19 
370 2268 12 
370 2259 16 

44 461 -28 
16 452 “809 
16 453 34 
201 606 13 


Owner—Shri Kahir Fakir. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
27 357 35 
11 355 ৭28 
40 374 0 
38 453 26 
97 452 67 
40 374 *৪৮ 


Owner—Shri Ashauddin Mondal. 


(163) No. 12267E.P.A., dated 21st Maroh 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Chinghispur, J. L. No. 397, Khatian No. 40, Plot 
No. 668, Area 24, Owner—Shri Anser Mondal. 


(164) No. 12269E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No- Area. 
63 1912 ll 
408 1767 2 
408 1760 14 
140 378 48 
140 379 4 
230 381 46 
92 10 ০৪0 
120 © 1299 09 
228 2582 ১৪6 
280 608 “44 
230 407 24 
Owner—Shri Maziruddin Mondal. দা 


(165) No. 12271E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Dolice-station Balurghat» 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

356 1795 +20 

356 1892 0 

886 1898 -20 

260 1896 “28 

850 1897 $1 
Owner—Shri Mohan Mondal. 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


2713 


(166) No. 12275K.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Weat Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Badmuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
66 211 +86 
66 234 9 


Owner—Shri Amaraddin Sarker. 


(167) No. 12277E.P.A., dated 2ist March 1955. 


District West Dianjpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Badmuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
65 235 71 
80 231 -72 


Owner—Shri Chhaleemaddin Sircar. 


(168) No. 12279E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinnjpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Badmuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82, Khatian No. 
57, Plot No. 223, Area "72, Owner—Shri Fulmahammad. 


(169) No. 12281E.P.A,, dated 6 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-statio Balurghat, 
Mauza Krishnanagore, J. No. 77, Khatian No. 31, 
Plot No. 274, Area 2۰72, Owner—Shri Gamiruddin 


Mandal. 


(170) No. 12283E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Dhaul, J. L. No. 103, Khatian No. 70, Plot No. 
124, Area 1°15, Owner—Shri Mahhammad Mandal. 


(171) No, 12285E.P.A., dated 2let March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Dhaul, J. L. No. 103. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Aroa. 
71 125 1 
12 129 6 
70 118 1-11 


Owner—Shri Hochan Mandal. 


(172) No. 12287E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 
Khatian No. Plot No. ‘ Area. 
70 2370 “19 
44 2476 05 
44 2486 10 
44 2538 46 
299 405 8ء‎ 
209 486 23 
299 498 28 
130 499 “ll 


Owner—Shri Kachar Mondal. 


(173) No. 12289E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Ptilice-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. 
856 1788 8 
356 1789 “20 
16 1813 7 
232 1842 “10 
232 1883 “28 
Owner—Shri Esab. 


(174) No. 12291K.P.A., dated 318৮ March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

20 17138 43 
306 1719 "09 

20 1722 07 
356 1786 20 
356 1787 ১20 

32 1810 20 
232 1838 24 
232 1839 10 
236 1933 “21 


Owner—Shri Faiz Mondal. 


(175) No. 12293E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No.. Plot No. Area. 
44 2470 19 
26 686 56 
86 408 84 


Owner—Shri Khamra Mondal. 


(176) No. 12296E.P.A., dated 3186 March 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Durgapur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

2ء 1736 398 

20 1915 39 

31 1916 03 

15 2015 20 
12 2016 230 
07 2666 232 
05 2667 232 
12 2669 250 
1ء 246 231 
0ء 248 231 


Owner—Shri Bhalsha Mondal. 


(177) No. 12305E.P.A., dated 3lst March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 890, 
Owners—Shri Lalmahammad and others. 


(178) No. 12307E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 195, Plot No. 1091, 
Owners—Shri Fazul Karim and others, 


(179) No. 12309E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Naldah, 
J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 1153, Plot No. 2660, Area 
* 1441-19-33) Owner—Shri Nazir Ahmed. 


(180) No. 12311E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Naldah, 
J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 1052, Plot No. 25642, Area 
-20, Ownors—Shrimati Joynabannesa Bibi and others. 


(181) No. 12313E.P.A., dated 2185 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Naldah, 
J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 1052, Plot No. 2569, Area 
1-26, Owner—Shri Joynabanechha Bibi. 


(182) No. 12315E.P.A., dated 21st March 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Chandrakhali, J. L. No. 149, Khatian No. 60, Plot No. 
399, Area -15, Owner—Shri Hajarat Ali Mandal. 


2714 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Parr I 


উস 22 کت[‎ 1 রত তত : স্পা Ronee 


(183) No. 12317E.P.A., dated 2185 March 1055. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Chandrakhali, J. L. No. 149, Khatian No. 60, Plot No. 
362, Area 54, Owner—Shri Hajarat Ali Mandal. 


(184) No. 12319E.P.A., dated 2196 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Chandrakhali, J. L. No. 149, Khatian No, 60, Plot No. 
310, Area -66, Owners—Shri Hajarat Ali mandal and 
others. 


(185) No. 12363E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 115, Plot No. 812, 
Owners—Shri Idu and othres. 


(186) No. 12365E.P.A., dated 21st March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 1743, 
Area 1-60, Owner—Shri Ebrahim. 


(187) No. 12367E.P.A:;, datéd 2155 March 1956, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 24, Plot No. 3276, 
Area -71, Owner—Shri Juman Ali Mandal. 


(188) No. 12369E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza Durga- 
pur, J. L. No. 390. 


Khatian No. Plo No. Area. 

284 510 09 
356 0107 06 
274 560 10 
402 1704 8 

20 1721 09 

20 1723 1] 
356 1793 06 
356 1794 10 

Owner—Shri Dilwar Mandal. 


(189) No. 12371E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 128, Plot No. 797, 


Qwner—Shri Meher Ali Mondal. 


(190) No. 12373E.P.A., dated 2196 March 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Shakdah, J. L. No. 21, Khatian No. 128, Plot No. 797, 
Owner—Shri Meher Ali Mandal. 


(191) No. 12375E.P.A., dated 218 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No, 8, Khatian No. 46, Plot No. 2266, 
Area -20, Owner—Shri Sher Ali. 


(092) No. 12377E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagunj, Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 119, Plot No, 1765, 
Area -26, Owner—fhri Golam. 


(193) No. 12370E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1956. 


District, Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Joyghata, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 609, Plot No. 1483, 
Area -41, Owner—Shri Abdul Gafur. 


Public Notices. under sub-section (2) of section 17 of 
the West Bengal Evacuee Property Act, 1951. 


NOTICES. 
(1) No. 12381E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 
(2) No. 12383E.P.A., dated 21st March 1955. 


Notice is‘ hereby given that the Evacuee Property 
Management Committee for West Bengal constituted 
under sub-section (1) of section 11 of the West Bengal 
Evacuee Property Act,°1961 (West Bengal Act V of 
1951), propose to take charge of the evacuee property 
described in the Schedule below under the provisions 
of clause (a)/(b)/(c) of sub-section (1) of sectioh 17 of 
the said Act. 


Any person interested in the property who hab any 
objection to the taking charge of the property by the 
Committee may file objection in writing before the Gom- 
mittee at its office at Writers’ Buildings within 30th 
June 1955. 


Schedule. 
(1) No 12381E.P.A., dated 2186 March 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Madhu- 
pur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 102, Plot No. 996, Area 
১12) Owner—Shri Jalil Mandal. 


(2) No. 12383E.P.A., dated 2196 March 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Madhu. 
pur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 102, Plot No. 1076, 
Area ۰48, Owner—Shri Jalil Mandal. ۰ 


Evacuee Property Administration 


NOTICE. 


No. 12273E.P.A.—2lst March 1955.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (5) of section 17 of 
the West Bengal Evacuee Property Act, 1951 (West 
Bengal Act V of 1951), read with section 22 of the Bengal 
Gencral Clauses Act, 1899 (Bengal Act I of 1899), the 
Evacuee Property Management Committee for West 
Bengal are pleased to rescind the Notice No. 2776 
E.P.A., dated the 8th February 1953, published at 
page 2016, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 
18th June 1953, in which it was declared that the eva- 
cuee properties described in the schedule below had 
vested in the Evacuee Property Management Com- 
mittee for West Bengal under sub-section (4) of section 
17 of the said Act سے‎ 


Schedule. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Basdhara, J. L. No. 50, Khatian No. 43, Plot No. 
195, Area ‘57, Owner—Shri Kina Mondal. 


By order of the Evacuee Property 
Management Committee for West 
Bengal, 


J. N. MOOKHERJEE, 
Secretary to the Committee. 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 1, 1956 2715 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 
ORDER 


No. 2747Dis./D/101L-82/56.—22nd June 1906.—Whereas under the 
(10956171061) of West Bengal, Labour Department, (order No. 1474Dis./D/ 
10L-181/54, dated the 2nd April 1950, the industrial dispute between the 
Vijoy Engineering Co, Private Ltd., 66/1 Dewnagazee Road, Bally, 
Howroh, and their workers represented by Belur Iron & Steel Workers 
Union, 80 Dewnagazee Road, Bally, Howrah, regarding the matters .peci- 
fied in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Third 
Industrial Tribunal; " 


And whereas the said Third Industrial Tribunal has submitted 00 the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial — Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is _ pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto, 


مہ 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between the Vijoy Engineering Co. 
Private Ltd., 66/1 Dewnagazee Road, Bally, Howrah, and their workers 
represented by Belur Iron & Steel Workers’ Union, 80 Dewnagazee 
Road, Bally, Howrah. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Snar J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


For the workmen: Shri Abani Mukherji. 


For the تح‎ Shri 1. K. Singh of Engineering Association of 
India, Shri B. B. Patel, Manager of the- ا‎ and Shri B. M. 
Dave, an Officer of the Company. 


AWARD 


By onder No. 1474D.s./D/101L-181/54, dated the 2nd April 1955, the 
Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, reterred under 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the industrial dispute 
between the Vijoy Engineering Co. Private Ltd., 66/1 Dewnagazee Road, 
Bally, Howrah, and their workers represented by Belur Iron & Steel 
Wotkers’ Union, 80 Dewnagazee Road, Bafly, Howrah, regarding thé 
nrattors specified in the schedule, to the Third Industrial ‘'ribunal consti- 
tuted under section 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by notification 
No. 992Dis./D/12L-5/52, dated the 23rd February 1953, for adjudication. 

2. Atter usual summons the parties entered appearance and filed their 
written siatements. The pleadings were completed on 25th November 
1956. The parties were therenfter directed to file list of documents and to 


complete tathir. Then after adjournments the case was fixed on 11 
June 1956, 


2716 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 
سپت‎ rrr rr Rl 
3. The matters of dispute as stated in the schedule to the orde¥ ot 


reference are as follows :— 


(1) Pay. 
(2) Leave. 


(3) Retrenchment of 49 workers mentioned in the attached list. 


(4) Bonus. 


(5) If the suspension of Chittaranjan Das is justified and to 
relief in the way of reinstytement and/or compensation lhe 


Prafullya Kumar Dey. 
Gadadhar Gayan. 
Chandi Choran Das. 
Sunil Kumar Gupta. 
Ram Prosad Singh. 
Nitai Chand Ghosh. 
Moni Mohan Patra. 
Sudhir Jana. 

Gaydhar Das. 

Santosh Charon Nag. 
Ram Raj Kounhar. 
Sadhon Ghosh. 
Monoranjan Ghosh. 
Krishna Mohan Manna. 
Panchanan Manna. 
Balchandra B. Venkundra. 
Radha Raman Betal. 

Ram Birich Thakur. 
Biswanath Das. 
Amarendra Nath Audhok. 
Hrishikesh Mondal. 

Ajit Kumar Ghosh. 

Ram Asis Mistri. 

Mihir Kumar Ghosh. 
Monindra Nath Dev. 


entitled. 

List of retrenched workers, 
1. Bhajan Gopal Banerjee. 20, 
2. Ajit Kumar Samonta. 26. 
3. Ashutosh Roy. its 
4. Roton Sawala. 28. 
5. Nitai Jana. 29. 
6. Subodh Biswas. 30. 
7. Modon Das. 91. 
8. Aswini Karmakar. 82. 
9. Biswanath Karmakar. 93. 
10. Monindra Chandra Dey. 84. 
1]. Ram Sewak Roy. 99. 
12. Lalji Konhar. 36. 
18. Prahlad Patla Singh. 37. 
l4. Shyamlal Das. 38. 
ld. Mahabir Singh. 3). 
10. Sumi Roton Nag. 40. 
17, VLakhi Kanta Bug. ধু], 
18. Kashi Nath Naskar. 42, 
19. Panchanan Sardar. 43. 
20. Ram Jatan Singh. 44, 
21. Punnanonda Soin. 45. 
22. B, Bairagee Reddy. 46. 
23. Ram Nihor. 47. 
24. Haradhon Santra. 48. 
49, 
DECISION 


Issues 1 to 5 are taken up together. 


Qn 111) June 1956 the parties filed a joint petition of compromise 
relating to the issues and prayed for an award in terms thereof. 
۲ therefore, make my award relating to 

The petition of compromise 


are fair and reasonable. 


issues in terms of the petition of compromise. 


together with the terms of settlement is made part of the award. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


J. MAITRA, JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 


Judge. Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


The 12th June 1986. 


[Part I 


The tagms 


Pazt I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2717 


کسسس جس مک مہو سم سدسچوووسم سس س٦سسےجحہےؤحے٢وججمھجہجہھ‏ ھ‫ٛشسحےمسم سے سج ہ٣‏ اچچ سس ش٤ش ০‏ سے 
ANNEXURE‏ 


BerorE Suzi J. পয, MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


In the matter of an industrial 018- 
pute, 
: Between 


Messrs. Vijoy Engineering Co., 
Private Ltd., 66/1 Dewnagazee Road, 
Bally, Howrah, 


And 


Their workmen represented ty 
Belur Iron & Steel Workers’ Union, 
80 Dewnagazee Road, Bally, Howrah. 
Vide Government order No. 1474- 
Dis./D/10L-181/54 of 2nd April 
1955.) 


The humble petition of the parties 
Most REsPECTFULLY SHEWETH :— ° 


1. That parties have come to an amicable settlement. 


9 ‘That the terms of settlement are embodied in the Annexure A 
attached. 

3. That in view of the above, the parties do not want to proceed with 
‘the case. 


Under the circumstances it is prayed that your honour will please make 
an award in the line of agreement. 


And for this act of kindness the parties shall ever pray. 


ABANI 011 
for Belur Iron & Steel Workers’ Union. B. M. DAVE, 
for Messrs. Vijoy Engineering Co., 
The llth June 1956. Private Ltd., 
R. K. SINGH, 
for Engineering Association of India. 
J. N. MAITRA,: 
Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


ANNEXURE A 
TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 
BETWEEN 
THE VIJOY ENGINEERING CO., PRIVATE LTD., 
AND 


THEIR WORKERS REPRESENTED BY 
BELUR IRON & STEEL WORKERS’ UNION. 


1.—Minimum Scale of Wages 


It is agreed that the minimum wage of unskilled workers will be 
i ৫০3 per day. 


: The semi-skilled workers will be given a flat increment of annas 2 per 
ay. 


2718 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Part I 


ہے شس تسپ 


With regard to two skilled workers, the Management agrees to grant 
suitable increments at their discretion. 


2.—Leave 


The Management agrees to grant nine festival holidays. The nine 
festival holidays will include two National holidays, i.e., the 26th ٦ 
and 15th August. Qut of the remaining seven holidays three will be 
selected by the Management and four by the workers. 


3.—etrenchment of 49 workers 


(a) The retrenchment of 19 workers as per list enclosed will stand. 
They have already tuken retrenchment compensation and as such they will 
have no further claims on the Company. In case of any future vacancies 
preterence will be given to those persons, 


(8) The following three retrencked workers will be paid as و‎ special 
case a lump sum of four months’ wages in full and final settlement of their 
claims and they shall forfeit their claim for re-employment in future سے‎ 


(1) Bhajan Gopal Banerjee. 
(2) Ashutosh Roy. 
(3) Netai Chandra Ghosh. 


(c) The rest of the 27 workers have already been taken 0 service. 
There is, therefore, no dispute on their account. But out of these 27 
workers those who have not taken the retrenchment compensation will be 
treated as on leave without pay for the period of unemployment, and 11761 
service will be treated as continuous. Others who accepted the compen- 
sation, should be treated as re-employed. 


4,.—Bonus 


Having regard to the financial position of the Company the Union does 
not press its claim for bonus for the past years. ‘he Management on their 
part assure the Union that they will review the financial position to consider 
the question of paying bonus during the Pujas. 


5.—Dismissal 


(a) Chittaranjan Das.—His dismissal will stand. He will get one- 
fourth wages for the period of unemployment from the date of suspension, 
i.e., 8th September 1954 to the date of the agreement. 


(b) Ajit Kumar Samonta.—He will be treated as dismissed from 8th 
January 1956. The petitions under section 33 and 094 will be withdrawn. 
He will get one-fourth of the wages for the period from 8th January 1956 
go the date of agreement. 


(c) Birendra Nath Adhikari.—His dismissal will stand. He will get 
one-fourth of the wages from the date of dismissal, i.e., 14th December 
1905 tg the date of agreement. 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2719 


পপ 
6.—Date of Implemention 

The agreement with regard to item No. 1 will be in force from the 181 

April 1956. The payment will be made within 15 days of the agreement. 


ABANI MUKHERJI, 
Belur Iron & Steel Workers’ Union. 


B, B. PATEL, Manager. 
Messrs. Vijoy Engineering Works. 


R. K. SINGH, 


The 111) June 1956. Engineering Association of 1۱:۰ 


List showing the names of 19 workers out of total number of 49 retrenched 


workers. 
1. Subodh Biswas Mistry, Pan making. 
2. Madan Das Mistry, Pan making. 
8. Aswini Karmakar Helper, Pan making. 
4. Biswanath Karinakar Mistry, Pan making. 
5. Monindra Chandra Das Helper, Pan making. 
6. Ram Sewak Roy Helper, Pan making. 
7. Shyamlal Das Helper, Pan making. 
8. Mahabir Singh Helper, Pan making. 
0. Sunil Raton Nag Fitter, M/Shop. 
10. 13. Bairagee Reddy Hammer-man, Smithy. 
11. Gadadhar Gayan Turner, M/Shop. 
12. Ram Raj Konhar ... Helper. 
13. Sadhan Ghosh ae Core-maker, Foundary. 
14. Radha Raman Betal Turner, M /Shop. 
16. Biswanath Das Moulder. 
16. Amarendra Nath Audhok Helper. 
17. Hrishikesh Mondal Moulder, 
18. Ram Asis 5 Blacksmith. 
19. Monindra Nath Dev Moulder. 


J. N. MAITRA, 


Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


Ere) SE 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8.7. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2720 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Pant I 
TS mr A NT ee 
ORDER 


No. 2748Dis./D/15L-7/56.—22nd June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 5055Dis./D/ 
¥5],-15/55, dated the 138th October 1955, read with its Corrigendum 
No. 1831Dis. /D/ اوہ‎ dated the 5th May 1956, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. N. K. 11001196198) Ltd., at present carrying on business 
under the name and style of Gopiram Rajendra Kumar at 15 Sir Hariram 
Goenka Street, Calcutta, and one of their employees, Shri Radheshyam, 
represented by the Hindusthan Drivers’ Union, 5/1 Russell Street, Calcutta, 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule to the said order, dated 
a October 1955, was referred 107 adjudication to the First Industrial 

ribunal; 


And whereas the said First Industria] Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. N. K. Industries, 
Lid., at present carrying on business under the name and style of 
Gopiram Rajendra Kumar, 15 Sir Hariram Coenka Street, Calcutta, 
and one of their employees, Shri Radheshyam, represented by 1016 
Hindusthan Drivers’ Union, 5/1 Russell Street, Calcutta. 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Suri .لا‎ C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retd.), Judge, First Industrial 


Tribunal. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 50d5Dis./D/15L-15/55, dated 13th October 1955, and Corri- 
gendum No. ۰ 78۰ 8 /10L-7/56, dated 5th May 1956, referred, under 
sections 1 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), ihe 
industrial dispute between Messrs. N. K. Industries, Ltd., at present 
carrying on business under the name and style of Gopiram Rajendra Kumar, 
15 Sir Hariram Goenka Street, Calcutta, and one of their employees, 
Shri Radheshyam, represented by the Hindusthan Drivers’ Union, 4/1 
Russell Street, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified in the following 
schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. 


Schedule 


Is the dismissal of Shri Radheshyam justified ? 
To what relief is he entitled ? 


Notices were issued on both parties. The Company refused the ‘otice 
and did not appear before the Tribunal. The Union filed written  state- 
ment on 14th December 1955. The case was heard ex parte in the absence 
of the Company. Shri T. B. Pakhrin, Secretary, and Shri M. A. Quraishi 
appeared for the workman. 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2721 


es সত 


‘Phe issue that arises for decision in this case is the same as that men- 
tioned in the order of reference and is as follows :— 


Issue 
Is the dismissal of Shri Radheshyam justifies ? 
To what relief is he entitled? 


AWARD 
Decisions 


The written statement of the worker shows that Shri Radheshyam was 
appointed by the Company as a Driver in June 1949 on a total emolument 
of Rs. 95 per month, and that the Driver served the Company faithfully 
for over four years. The plug of the car which Shri Radheshyam used to 
drive developed some mechanical trouble due to weak compression engine, 
and the workman brought the defect to the notice of the employer for 
necessary repair, hut the employer did not take any action to repair the 
defect. On 10th July 1954, Radheshyam reminded the employer about the 
defect, but the employer got annoyed and dismissed him with 172706018৮6 
effect without any notice and without any compensation. The Union, 
therefore, prays that the dismissal of Shri Radheshyam was unjustifiable 
and he should be reinstated with continuity of service and should be اہر‎ 
back wages for the period of forced unemployment commencing from the 
date of his dismissal being 10th July 1954 to the date of reinstatement. 


P.W. 1 Shri Radheshyam deposed and proved the statements made in 
the written statement filed by the Union. He states that the plug of the 
car which he used to drive developed some mechanical trouble and he 
brought the defect to the notice of the employer for repairs, but the 
employer did not take any step. On 10th July 1954, he reminded the 
employer, on which the latter took away the key of the car from the 
Driver and then discharged him. Shri Radheshyam prayed for reinstate- 
ment and emoluments for the period of non-employment. On the evidence 
on record, it appears that the dismissal of Shri Radheshyam was not 
justified. He should, therefore, be reinstated to his own job at his old 
pay of Rs. 95 per month. Shri Radheshyam was discharged on 10th July 
1954, and the order of reference is dated 13th October 1955. It appears 
to me that it will not be proper to allow back wages for the entire period 
of unemployment from 10th July 1954, aa the reference was made more 
than o year after the date of the discharge. In the circumstances, 14 18 
awarded that Shri Radheshyam should be paid by the Company full wages 
for four months by way of compensation for the period of non-employment. 
Shri Radheshyam should be reinstated within one month from the date on 
which this award comes into operation. The period of non-employment 
will = considered to be special leave on emoluments as are allowed in this 
award. 


M. 0. BANERJI, 


Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 13th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2722 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr T 


بی س٣‏ سن سس سیت سچ ‏ شش ہچ شش ٹٹشژش شش ‪‫ ج4 ٹ سس سس سو و ۔سبت ‏ سس۔ئے 
ORDER‏ 


No. 2775Dis. /D/ aoa gg a ing June 1956.—Wherenas under the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No, 04191)15.11)1111- 
37/55, dated the 17th November 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Mesars. Khemchand Rajkumar, 33 Netaji Subhas Road, Caleutta-1, and 
their workmen represented by Shri Rajani Mukherji, Vice-President, Hind 
Maddoor Sabha, 189-B Rash Rehari Avenue, Calcutta-29, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to 
“the Second Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal; 


And whereas during the pendenry of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal, a joint complaint in writing was filed by (1) Fouzder and (2) 
Noor Mia, two workers of the said Company, against the said Company, 
before the said Tribunal alleging that the said Company had discharged 
the said two workers concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cuted upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Gov- 
ernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance df the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Thaputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by (1) Fouzder and (2) Noor Mia, workmen of Messrs. 
Khemchand Rajkumar, represented by Calcutta Port Commissioners’ 
سا‎ 3 Joy Krishna Paul Road, Calcutta-23, against the aforesaid 
ompany,. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT ; 
Suri G. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances: 


For the employees; Shri A. ৮ Roy. 


For the Company: Shri K. K. Kapani, Industrial Relations Adviser, and 
Shri T. K. Jagdish, Labour Adviser. 


The Government of West Bengal, Jabour Department, by order 
No. 8419Dis./D/11L-137/55, dated 17th November 1955, referred the 
original dispute existing between Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar, 35 Netaji 
Subhas Road, Calcutta-1, and their workmen represented by Shri Rajani 
Mukherjee, Vice-President, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, 189B Rash Behari 
Avenue, Calcutta-29, regarding the matters specified in the schedule to this 
Tribunal for adjudication. The award of the Tribunal in 1espeet of the pro- 
ceeding was made‘on 22nd April 1956 and the award has heen published 
in the Calcutta Gazette, dated April 26, 1956. 


AWARD 


During the pendency of the original dispute, the present complaint, 
dated 9th February 1956, purporting to be under section 394 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act was filed on 20th February 1956 by these two workers on 
the allegation that while the original dispute was pending before this 


Part I} THE CALCUTTA GAZETTR, JULY 12, 1956 2723 
ee —_____________—_____———_ ممسممسستسست ک س۰6 شش‎ 
Tr8unal, the Opposite Party, in contravention of the provisions of section 
49 of the Industrial Disputes Act, retrenched them unlawfully. 


The Opposite Pifrty has raised a preliminary objection regarding 
maintainability of the complaint. It is urged by the Opposite Vaity— 
Company that the petitioners were never under ity employment, aud as such 
they could have no cause of grievance against the present Company, which 


alone was concerned with the original order of reference. 


JT have heard the learned representative on both sides at length, and have 
considezed the evidence—both oral and documentary as furnished, 


Now let me turn to the order of reference of the main case. The relevant 
portion of the reference was in the following terms :— 


‘Whereas an industrial dispute exists between Messrs. Khemchand 
Rajkumar, 33 Netaji Subhas Road, Caleutta-1, and their workmen 
represented by Shri Rajani Mukherjee, Vice-President, Hind 
Mazdoor Sabha, 19913 Rash Behari Avenue, Caleutta-29, regarding 
the matters specified in the schedule, and whereas it 1৭5 expedient 
that the said dispute should he referred to an Industrial Tribunal 


constituted under section 7 ofthe Industrial Disputes Act ........... 
vise yee veee the Governor is pleased hereby to refer the said 
dispute to the Second Industrial Tribunal.............ccccecee میتی‎ 


for adjudication.’’ 


The plain language of the order of reference df the above industrial 
dispute for adjudication shows that the dispute arose between Messrs. 
Khemehand Rajkumer oy. the one hand and their workmen on the other. 
So. it 1৭ apparent that the subject-matter of the di pute was between that 
Jompany and its employees, and that no employee in other concerns could 
he aftected by the award that would be passed in the above dispute. From 
the description of the parties to the dispute on whom the award in the 
dispute could be binding and from the nature of the subject-matter of the 
dispute, 14 seems that the result was likely to concern none else except the 
workmen of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar. This was also the argument 
that was put forward by the learned representative on behalf of the Company. 
He has further argued that these two petitioners were never in the employ- 
ment of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar, and as such they were not entitled 
to present the application under section 38A of the Act, because they were 
not concerned in the original order of reference. But it is the positive case 
of the petitioners that they were employed under Messrs. Khemchand Raj- 
kumar. It 1৭ not their case that they worked under Messrs. Steel Rolling 
Mills of Bengal Ltd. The petitioners have also deposed at the time of 
hearing that thev used to work under Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar. They 
did not assert that they were under the employment of Messrs. Steel Rolling 
Mills of Bengal Ltd. It may be said in this connection that even if they 
were employed under Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal JAd. stil] they 
were not entifled to make such a complaint under section 33A, firstly 
hecause Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal 1540. were no parties to the 
original order of reference. Some of the proprietors of Messrs. Khemchand 
Rajkumar might also be the proprietors of Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of 
Bengal Ltd. But this fact does not and cannot necessarily mean that 
Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal Itd. could be deemed to be a party 
also to the original reference. I am mindful of the fact that in the srhedule 
to the original order of reference, there is mention of scales of pay for 
clerks of all the three concerns (vide No. 6 of the schedule). An attempt 
wad naturally made by the learned representative appearing on behalf of 
the petitioners to interprete that Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal J.id. was one 


724 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr I 


ot the three concerns of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar, and as such it shuld 
he deemed to be a party in the original order of reference. But I am not 
disposed to accept such interpretation. The three concerns as referred ما‎ in 
the order of reference mean, in my opinion, two yards of Messrs. Khemchand 
Rajkumar—one at Paharpore and the other at Salimar and the Head (ffice 
at 38 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. This will also he evident from the 
complaint of the petitioners themselves, in which mention is also made of 
Paharpore and Salimar. Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal 1۸504. is a 
separate legal entity, and it is a Limited Company. That being so, it 
rannot be regurded as an allied concern of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar. 


Now the main point for consideration is, whether these two petitioners 
were really in the employment of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar. The 
petitioners have no doubt deposed that they were employees of Messrs. 
Khemchand Rajkumar, but their evidence, if carefully considered and 
scrutinised, clearly points to the direction that they never worked under 
Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar. Exhibits A, A(1), B and B(1), which are 
the extracts of wage sheets for certain periods, go to prove beyond doubt 
that these two petitioners were employed by the persons who were entrusted 
with the building construction of Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal 144. 
Both of the petitioners have admittéd their thumb impressions in the said 
wage sheets. This fact is also strengthened by what has transpired from 
the evidence of the petitioners themselves. Both of them were constrained 
to say that they worked as masons for some days, and thereafter they 
worked as Sardars for employing labourers. Furthermore, the petitioner— 
Fouzder Sahu (P.W. 2)—has admitted in his cross-examination that Messrs. 
Khemehand Rajkumar has got 0 factory, in which iron rods and such other 
things are manufactured. In view of this admission by one of \the 
wtitioners there could be no chance or possibility of these two petitioners 
ا‎ employed as masons and Sardars for employing labourers in Mesars. 
Khemehand Rajkumar. Fvidently, there was and could be no scope for 
8001) kind of work in the factory of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar, regard 
being had to what has heen stated above. My conclusion, therefore, is 
that there was no relationship of ‘‘employer and employee’ between the 
petitioners and Messrs. Khemchand pie, etal That being so, the present 
applieation is not maintainable, 


Another fact is worth mentioning. It appears from the materials that 
the main dispute that was referred to this Tribunal, was amicably settled 
between the parties on 29th March 1956. The terms of settlement welt 
embodied in an agreement. A copy of that agreement is to be found in the 
award (Ext. 1) which was ihe in the Calcutta Gazette on April 26, 
1900 and this agreement formed part of the award. In that agreement 
10 1 paragraph 3, it is clearly stated that at the time, all pending disputes 
were amicably settled, and that there were no other disputes of any other 
workmen, and no such issue would be entertained. This agreement was signed 
not only on behalf of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar, but also by Shri Rajani 
Mukherjee, Vice-President of the Union, on behalf of the workmen. That 
agreement has now culminated in an award, (010 the same date, another 
agreement was arrived at also between Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal 
lid. and their workmen represented by Shri Rajani Mukherjee, Vice- 
President of the Union. A copy of this agreement has been produced on 
behalf of the Opposite Party and it is Ext. 2. In this agreement, it is 
specifically mentioned that this agreement settled all the disputes pending 
till date. In the circumstances, it must be held that al] pending disputes 
bteween Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal Ltd. and their employees 
were settled and closed. Assuming for argument’s sake that the petitioners 
were either in the employment of Messrs. Khemchand Rajkumar or in the 


partI] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2725 


empyoyment of Messrs. Steel Rolling Mills of Bengal Ltd. they in view of 
the agreements mentioned above cannot be permitted to reopen the matter 
aun, Fe their discharge by way of retrenchment. Hence, in any view 
of the matter, they afe precluded from maintaining the present application 
ander section 33A of the Act. 


The result 1s that the application be rejected. 
Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 18th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. ٥. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 27¢76Dis. / D/11L-167 সাদ “June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1356Dis. / D/ 
11L-268/55, dated the 3rd April 1956, the industrial dispute betwen 
Messrs. The East Asiatic Co. (India), Ltd., Calcutta Branch, F2 Clive 
Buildings, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, and their employees represented 
by the East Asiatic Co. (India) Calcutta Employees’ Union, F2 Clive 
Buildings, Calcutta, was referred for adjudication to the First Industrial 
Tribunal, West Bengal. 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was filed by Shri Chira Ranjan Das, an 
employee of the said Company, against the said Company before the said 
Tribunal alleging that the said Company had discharged the said employee 
concerned in such dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 994 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 4 of 1947), the said Tribunal bas 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto, 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Chira Ranjan Das, against Messrs. East Asiatic 
Co. (India), Ltd. 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 

Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retd.), Judge, First Industrial 
Tribunal. 

For the Complainant: Shri P. C. Borooah, Counsel. 


For the Company: Shri P. Ghosh, Advocate, Shri K. .ىا‎ Chatterji, 
Pleader, of Messrs. Orr, Dignam & Co., Solicitors, and Mr. F, Sommers, 
Joint Manager of the Company. 


2726 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 (Part I 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, 7ص‎ 
order No. 3419Dis./D/111-268/55, dated 28th July. 1955, referred the 
industrial dispute between Messrs. Kast Asiatic Co. (India), Ltd., Caleutta 
Branch, F2 Clive Buildings, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta and their 
employees represented by the East Asintic Co. (India) Calcutta Employees’ 
Union, F2 Clive Buildings, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified ৪ 
u schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award in respect of that 
proceeding was made by the Tribunal on 28th Muay 0۰ 


On 29th September 1955, Shri Chiva Ranjan Das applied under section 
33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), stating that he 
was a workman under the Opposite Party Company in the capacity of a 
Salesman in the category of 475 Grade Clerk being employed thereto 
with effect from 12th April 1948 and presently enjoying a_ salary of 
Rs. 403-4 per month including dearness allowance. It is stated that he 
was a party to the industrial dispute pending before this Tribunal under 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, Reference No. 8419Dis. / 
J) /11L-268/55, dated 28th July 1956. The petitioner is a permanent 
employee of the Opposite Party. He was elected to the Executive Com- 
mittee of the East Asiatic Co. (India), Ltd. Calcutta Employees’ Union. 
It is further stated that while the original dispute was pending before the 
Tribunal, the applicant was handed over o letter, dated 15th September 
1955, discharging him with effect from 30th September 1955 and declaring 
him a non-workman. The Opposite Party has contravened the provisions 
of section 33, clauses (a) and (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, by 
categorising him as a non-workman without taking permission of | the 
Tribunal and without following the procedure 1881 down in section 20] of 
the Act. The petitioner, therefore, prays that he should be reinstated \and 
awarded such compensation as will be considered appropriate. 


The Company, in its written statement, states as follows :— 


The petition is not maintainable, as there has not been any contraven- 
tion of section 33 of the Act. The petitioner is not a workman within the 
meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act. The petitioner was employed in 
the Opposite Party Company with effect from 12th April 1948, and that 
his present salary is Rs. 408-4. The petitioner was appointed as a Sales- 
man and was never put in any grade meant for clerical staff. As the 
petitioner was employed on salary basis. he was fitted in a certain pay 
scale. The mode of remunerating the Salesman in the Opposite Party 
Company varied from Salesman to Salesman. The petitioner was 4 
permanent employee of the Company prior to the termination of his service. 
The petitioner was never treated as a clerk. The nature of the work 
performed by the petitioner was neither clerical nor manual so as to render 
him a workman. The work of the petitioner mainly was to approuch the 
various dealers in machinery and push sales of the products in which the 
Company was dealing. The petitioner was engaged as a Machinery Sales- 
man. Since 1953, there has been a very considerable decline in the import 
und sales of machinery due to various reasons, which has 78511010901 the 
scope of business to a great extent and consequently the Company has heen 
incurring heavy losses. As a result of this aa decline of business ond 
in profit, the Opposite Party ona very careful consideration of all the 
circumstances were of the opinion that there was no chance of any improve- 
ment in business and that the petitioner was surplus to the requiremenf. 
The Opposite Party, therefare, terminated the services of the petitioner. 
The termination of service of the petitioner was bona fide and was fully 
justified und the present petition is misconceived. The petition under 
section 994. should be rejected. 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2727 


¢ 

On the date of hearing on 13th June 1956, both the parties were present 
and the case was partly heard, After the case was partly heard, both the 
parties came to an 21101091016 settlement and filed a petition of compromise 
embodying therein the terms of settlement. This petition appears as 
Appendix A to this award. On a consideration of¢the terms of this compro- 
mise petition, 11 appears to me that they are reasonable and should be 
accepted. J, therefore, accept the comprémise petition and award in 
accordance with the terms thereof. The compromise petition shall form a 
part of this award. 

M. 0. BANERJT, 


Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 16th June 1956. 


APPENDIX A 
BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
Sur M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman, 


In the matter of an application 
under section 338A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, 


And 


In the matter of Shri Chira Ranjan 
as w. Petitioner, 
Versus 


Messrs. East Asiatic Co., (India), 
Lid. 6 Opposite Party. 


Terms of Settlement 


(1) The Company, Opposite Party, agrees to pay six months’ salary 
plus dearness allowance, etc., at Rs. 403-4 per month plus the sum _ of 
Rs. 100 (one hundred only) in full and final settlement of all the claims 
and dues to the petitioner, Shri C. R. Das, against the Company who chall 
have no further claim or dues whatsoever against the Company. 


(2) This payment will be made within fortnight from date. 


(3) The petitioner’s services with the Company will be deemed to 11959 
been terminated on and from Ist November 1955, 


Total amount comes to Rs. 2,519-8. 
CHIRA RANJAN DAS. 
F. SOMMERS, 
Dated Caleutia, the 18th June 1956, 
M. C. BANERJI, 


Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 16th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2728 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr I 
ORDER 

No. 2780Dis./D/111-109(A)/55—23rd June 1956,—whereas under the 
(Jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6124Dis./D/ 
111,-109(A)/55, dated the 28th December 1955, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Calcutta Tanneries (1944) 1۸+4. factory at Kankinarah, 
24-Parganas, with Head Office at 14 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, and 
one of their employees Shri Nanda Gopal Chakrabarty, P. 0. Narayanpur, 
Padmapukur Road, Rathtala, 24-Parganas, regarding the matters specified 
in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Fourth Indus- 
trial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Fourth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus- 
trian) Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Calcutta Tanneries 
(1944) Ltd., factory at Kankinarah, 24-Parganas, Head Office at 14 
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, and one of their employees Shri Nanda 
Copal Chakrabarty, P. 0. Narayanpur, Padmapukur Road, Rathtala, 
24-Parganas, referred under Government Order No. 6124Dis./D/11L- 
108(A) / 55, dated the 28th December 1955 (Case No. ۷۱۱۱۰۹ of 1956) 


BEFORE THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
51181 8. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 
For the employee: Shri Nanda Gopal Chakravarty himself. 
For the Company: Shri নি. G. Khaitan, Director of the Company. 


By Government Order No. 6124Dis./1)/11].-109(A)/55, dated 28th 
December 1955, the aforesaid dispute was referred to this Tribunal for 
adjudication. The issue framed hy the Government was the same as the 
issue framed by this Tribunal and it was as follows:— 


To what relief Shri Nanda Gopal Chakrabarty is entitled as a result 
of his termination of service by the Company? 


Notice of the aforesaid dispute was served on both parties. The work- 
man filed his written statement on 27th February 1956 and the Compapv 
filed its written statement on 7th March 1956, 


The case for the employee in his written statement is that he had been in 
employ of the company’s factory at Kankinarah, 24-Parganas, from Ist 
September 1952 to loth April 1954 as an Assorter at a salary of Rs. 150 per 
month, that on 12th April 1954 the Director of the Company informed 
Shri Nanda Gopal Chakraharty by a letter stating that his services were no 
longer required from 13th April 1954, that the petitioner submits that the 
action of the Company by terminating his services from the said factory is 
illegal, unfair and amounts to clear unfair labour practice, that in the 
ciicumstances the employee prays for an Award directing the Company to 
pay the petitioner notice pay, leave pay and compensation for retrencliment 
and other reliefs. 

The Company, on the other hand, in its written statement contended 
that due to abnormal trade depression in this industry the Manugement 
decided to close down the factory early in October 1953 and issued a notice 


Parr T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 2729 


an 


10 this effect to all staff and workers of the factory on 3lst October 1963 
terminating their services as and when their individual responsibilities are 
finished, that all the workers and staff received their dues as usual, that on 
12th April 1954 it was observed that the works in the applicant’s department 
was completed and = aceordingly he was fjnally notified on the 
date and was offered his dues up to date, but he refused to accept it 
without assigning any reason that the Company agrees to pay to the 
applicant his dues up to 12th April 1954, that the allegations made in the 
applicant’s written statement are false, that the Company acted legally 
accoiding to exigency of circumstances and denies all charges, that in the 
circumstances, the Company submits that the prayer for notice pay, leave 
pay and compensation for retrenchment and other reliefs be rejected. 


AWARD 


It has heen proved by 0.P.W. 1 that due to trade depression the Com- 
pany has been suffering loss to the total extent of 14 lakh and consequently 
the business had to be closed down and the entire staff retrenched. 1 
therefore, in the circumstances hold that the retrenchment was bona fide 
and for good and sufficient reason. AM the workers have already left with 
retrenchment compensation. Qnly this worker did not accept his dues un- 
leas he was paid notice pay, leave pay and compensation. He has, however, 
subsequently settled up his dues with the Company and has granted a full 
discharge receipt on getting Rs.290 on the heads mentioned in Ext. A. 
T hold that Ext. A is true and it gives the Company full discharge and the 
worker cannot reopen the claim over again. I, therefore, hold that there 
wil] be a ‘‘no-dispute’’? Award in this case. 


8. 0. MUKHERJT, 


Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 14th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER. 


No. 2843Dis./D/18L-5/55.—29th June 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6823Dis. /D /13T- 
5/56, dated the 9th December 1955, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Lokmanya Press, 94/3 Lower Chitpur Road, Calcutta, and their employees 
represented by Press Employees’ Association, 249B Bowbazar Street, Cal- 
cutta, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred 
for adjudication to the Fourth Industrial Tribunal; 


_Aud whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal, a complaint was filed before it against the said company by Shri 
Redananda Thakur and 40 other workmen of the said Company alleging 
that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said workmen, 
the conditions of service applicable to them immediately before the cvom- 
mencement of the said proceedings; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 94 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
اہ‎ upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Govern- 
ment ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


2730 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Part I 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 83A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Bedananda Thakur and 40 others represented 
by. the Press Employees’ Association of 249B Bowhazar Street, Cal- 
cutta, im connection with | an industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Lokmanya Press of 94/3 Lower Chitpore Road, Calcutta, and their work- 
men represented by the Presa Employees’ Association of 239B Bow- 
bazar Street, Calcutta, referred under Government Order No, 5823Dis.- 
/D/13L-5/55, dated 9th December 1955 (case No. 65 of 1956) 


BEFORE THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Sur1 5. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Judge, Fourth Industnal Tribundt. 
For the Union: Shri Indu BhusaneSarkar. 


For the Company: Shri Kshama Shankar Dwivedi. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application was 
filed by Shri Bedananda Thakur and 40 others on the allegation that the 
petitioners are permanent workmen of 14010181008, Press, that after the said 
reference, ae 9th December 1955, the Management pot furious and lost 
the balance of mind and all at once stopped the payment of wages 18 the 
workmen for the month of December 1955 which was due'in Juhuary 1956, 
that for reasons best known to themselves the Management with an ulterior 
motive made payment for the month of December 1955 in February 1956 
“but again withheld the payment of wages to the workmen for the moriths 
of January and February 1956 up to date, that hy delaying and withholding 
payment of wages for the aforesaid months the Management altered the 
service condition of the workmen and thus coerced and punished the workmen 
concerned, that the petitioners submit that the Management has contravened 
the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 
that in the-circumstances the petitioners pray for an Award directing the 
employers to pay the petitioners their earned wages, allowances and other 
91041)11167 all at once. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the Opposite 
Party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application is not maintainable دہ‎ it has been signed hy 34 workers 
instead of 41 workers inasmuch as the application is not in conformity with 
the rule prescribed for applications under section 8134) that the Company 
has heen suffering from financial handicaps for the Jast four years and 
could not maintain regularity in payment of wages to the workers, that 
pavment of wages has never been withheld but due to financial stringency 
it was irregular from before the Order of Reference and also thereafter and 
such irregular payment did not involve any element of punishment, that 
the Opposite Party denies that irregular payment of wages amounts to any 
ulteration in the condition of service inasmuch as it depends on the financia! 
rondition of the Opposite Party and this condition of irregular payment 
having been existing from before the Order of Reference, there has been no 
alteration thereafter, that the Opposite Party denies that the irregular 


Parr T] TH CALCUTTA GAZETTE, TULY 12, 1956 2731 
۱ Ment of wages wis due to any alterier motive, that the Opposite Party 
bis not contravened section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the 


Opposite Party submits that the application is misconcéived and should he 
dismissed with costs. 


The only point for decision t— 


Whether the application in the present’ form is tenable. 


AWARD 


Since only aggrieved را‎ cau apply under section 9384. of the Indus- 
trial Dispubeg Act, the present petition is tenable only with regard to 34 
mwisons who have signed the petition. With regard to others, there is no 
evidence that they have éfther signed or authorised the Secretary to file the 
application or to conduct their cases on their behalf. So with regard to 
others, there is no case. Besides, wages, etc., and their payment on the 
expiry of the month are terms of service rather than conditions of service. 
So, nan-phyment of monthly wages by itself is not a breach in the condition 
of service and as such complaint for stitch non-payment cannot he ad¥anced 
under section 388A of the Industrial Disputes Act and, therefore, the 
application in ‘the present form is not tenable. 


ا٦‎ wag however stated in the application under section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act that the act of the Company amounted to victimisa- 
tion of workers only to sabotage their Union activities but on this point 
there is absolutely no evidence which can be acted on in the Court of Justice. 
P.W. 1, the ২ witness examined for the Union, did not venture to say 
so in hia orpl statement before the Tribunal and that circumstances do not 
support the existence of such a motive behind the non-payment. The 
Company admitted that due to financial stringency they had been irregular 
in payment to their staff and they had, for the same reason, to pay the wages 
for the month of December 1955 in February 1956 and that for January 1956 
in March 1966. Tt is clear from the Award published in the ‘‘Calcutta 
Gazette’, dated 4th June 1958, that the pecuniary condition of the Company 
was not at all sound and this ultimately led to the retrenchment of the staff. 
Besides, the alleged default in the payment of wages is not confined to 
only the Union workers and there is no evidence that the Uhion workers 
were singled out from other members of the staff for meeting out this punish- 
inent. So I hold that Union has failed to prove that the non-payment was 
due to any ulterior motive. That being so, the petitioners have no case on 
merits for mere non-payment without any ulterior motive does not make 
{he non-payment a breach in the condition of service. So, on merits algo 
petitioners have no case. 


8. 11, 
Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 14th June 1966. 


By order of the Gevernor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2732 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JOLY 12, 1956 [Parr J 
৯ ১০০০৯০৯৯১১০ awe 
ORDER 1 


No. 2813Dise/D/14L-6/56—26th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Governngat of West Bengal, Labour Department, ordér No. 3511Dis./) 
141,-2/53, dated the [7th September 1953, read with its Addendum 
No. 8652)is./D/14L-2/54 dated the 2lst september 1953, the industrial 
dispute between the Howrah Mynicipality, Howrah, and its workmen 
represented by (1) Howrah Municipal Employees’ Assocation, Municipal 
(01108, Howrah, (2) Howrah Municipal Karmachari Sangha,” Municipal 
Office, Howrah, (3) Howrah Jalkal Karmachar) Sangha, Dey Ghat Lane, 
Serumpore, Hooghly, (4) Howrah ‘Municipal Free Primary School 
Teachers’ Association, 10] Rajballav Saha Lane, Ramkristopore, Howrah, 
(5) Howrah Jalkal Mazdoor Umon, P.Q. Serampore, Hooghly, and (6) 
Howrah Municipal Workers’ Union, 101/84 Brindaban Mullick Lane 
Kadamtala, Howrah, was referred for adjudication to the First Industrial 
Tribunal ; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing wus made by the General Secretury, 
Howrah Municipal Employees’ Association, before the said “Tribunal, 
against the said Municipality, alleging that the said Municipailty had 
altered, to the prejudice of the workmen, the conditions of service applicahle 
to them immediately before the commencement of the said proceedings; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 904 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV ot 1947), the said Trikunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(yovernment; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industriel Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Goverior is শিপ 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Howrah Municipal Employees’ Association. 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 


Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge, (Retd.), Judge, First Industrial 
Tribunal. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. তা Crete! Se dated 17th September 1953, read with 
Addendum No. d882Dis./D/14R-2/53, dated 21st September 1953, 
referred the industrial dispute between Howrah Municipality, Howrah, 
and its workmen represented by some Unions to this Tribunal for 
adjudication. The award of the Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was 
published in the ‘‘Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary,’’ dated 10th July 1954. 


On 5th May 1964 the General Secretary of the Howrah Municipal 
Employees’ Association filed a complaint stating as follows :— 


The usual working hours of the employees were fixed from 10-80 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. with a recess of half an hour, and the employees used to get 10 
minutes’ time after 10-30 a.m. and they used to be marked late present 
after 10-40 a.m. One 68৮8 leave used to he forfeited for three be ot 
auch late attendance in 2» month. This privilege was a-part of the condi- 
tion of sefvice of the employees which they had been enjoying. During 
the pendency of this Tribunal proceedings, the Municipality curtailed this 


Parr T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 2733 


a লিস্ট 


privilege and the granting of extra time of 10 minutes after 10-30 a.m. 
has been stopped by & circular order of ,the Administrator, Towrah 
Municipality, dated 8186 April 1954. The ‘Municipality: has thus contre- 
vened the provisions of section 83 of the Industriat Disputes Apt, inasmuch 
as it passed such ‘an order without the permigsion of the Tribunal. 
The petitionors, therefore, pray that the Tribunal would be pleased io 
direct the said Municipality not to curtail the privileges of the employees 
and to mainéain status quo. 


Notices were served on the Municipality and it appeared and filed & 
written stutement, in which it state, as follows :— 


Lhe Municipality denies that there has been any change of service 
conditions since the disyutes between the Howrah Municipal Employees’ 
Association and other Unions were referred to the Tribunal. The circular 
referred to only 808১] that the employees should attend punctually at 
10-30 a.m., which was the time for office to sit for a long time. The 
Municipality or for matter of that, any employer has always the right lo 
enforce the prevailing hour of attendance and departure, and it is absolutely 
in their discretition to take action aguinst any employee for nan-adherence 
or to overlook it for any period generglly, or in case of any employee for 
sufficient reason. 


On the date of hearing on 12th June 1956, neither party appeured. 
The complaint under section 338A was filed by the Union and not by the 
aggrieved employees. The complaint was, therefore, incompetent. It 
does not appear also that there is any existing dispute between the parties. 
It is, therefore, awarded that the application under section 338A be rejected. 


M. C. ة1‎ 
i Judge, First Industrial Tribunal, 
The 13th June 1996, 


By order of the Governor, 


D. ٥. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 2789Dis./D/101-100/56.—25th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 695Dis./D/ 
10L-2/64, dated the 18th February 1954, read with the Corrigendum 
No. 2313Dis./D/101-£/54, dated the 4th May 1954, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Dhur Tin Factory, 10] Akshoy Kumar Mukherjee Road, 
Calcutta, and their workers represented by Dhur Tin Factory Workers’ 
Union, 1 Joy Bhattacharyya Lane, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified 
in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Fourth ludus- 
trial Tribunal; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the 8ھ‎ 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made hetore the said Tribunal by 
Shri Subal Chandra Jas and 64 other workers of the said company against 
the said Company, alleging that the said Company had punished the said 
worketa concerned in auch dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 994. of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal ۵8ط‎ 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(10৮০1711761): 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 1947(XIV of 1947), the Governor id pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


2734 THM CALCUTTA GAZETTH, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr 1 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Subal Chandra Das and 64 others against 
Messrs. Dhur Tin Factory of 101 Akshoy Kumar Mukherjee Road, 
Calcutta-36, in connection with an industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Dhur Tin Factory and their workmen referred under Government Order 
No. 695Dis., dated 13th February 1954 (case No. 116 of 1954). 


BEFORE THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT : 
Suri 8. C. MUKHERJI, Dustrict Judge, Judye, Fourth Industrial 


Tribunal. 
For the Union: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharji. 
For the Company: Shn 1). K. Sanyal, Advocate. 


While the atoresaid dispute wus pending, the present application under 
section 034 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, was filed by Shr; Subal 
Chandra Das and 64 others on the allegation that they are employees of 
Dhur Tin Factory, that they used to be allowed a holiday for the Dasahara 
festival since the last few years, that this year also they enjoyed the same 
holiday on 116) June 1954, that the petitioners on coming to the factory 
on 12th June 1954, found the gates of the factory closed and police-pickets 
posted, that they had been retused ontry since that time, that under the 
circumstances the petitioners pray that their employers may kindly be 
directed to allow them to resume work immediately and pay them wages 
for the period they may remain idle. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the Opposite 
Party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the petitioners had no right to be allowed a holiday for the Dasahara 
festival nor they had ever enjoyed such a holiday as a matter of right, that 
whenever a holiday would be granted the Opposite Party would as a 
matter of right decide prior to the date of the holiday whether the same 
would be granted and would issue previous notice of such holidays if 
decided upon by it, that no holiday was declared by the Opposite Party 
for the 11th of June 1954 nor were the workmen entitled to enjoy the said 
date as a holiday, that on 116) day of June 1954 the workmen resorted to 
an illegal and wholly unjustified strike and threatened the Management 
with violence and to cause mischief to the factory and did not work although 
they came to the factory in the morning, that immediately thereupon the 
Opposite Party informed in writing the Officer-in-charge, Baranagore 
police-station, about the illegal strike and the threatening of violence and 
mischief given by the workmen, that on 12th June 1954 the Opposite Party 
handed over to the workmen charge-sheets for their misconduct of the 11th 
June 1954 whereupon they refused to accept the said charge-sheets and also 
to attend to their duties thus resorting to another illegal strike, that the 
Opposite Party never refused entrance to workmen, that the workmen con- 
tinued the illegal strike til] the 16th of June 1954 and thereafter joined 
their duties on and from the 17th day of June 1094) that the Opposite 
Party states that the application is not maintainable in law, that the 
Opposite Parfy states that the workmen having resumed their work on and 
from the 17th June 1954 the praver in this respect is wholly mala fide and 
the petitioners having indulged in illegal strike are not entitled to any 
wages for the period of the said strike, that the Company submits that in 
the circumstances the application is wholly mala fide, harassing and frivo- 
lous and should be dismissed, 


pant 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2735 


Phe first point: raised by the Union that they have been improperly 
locked out by the Company cannot form the subject-matter of a complaint 
under section ddA, for ea aie is not a change in the cyndition of service. 
Just as a strike is a fundamental right in the hand of a worker to enforce 
his claim against the employer, so lock-out is a fyndamenta] weapon in the 
hand of the employer. So, 1 hold that a complaint under section JSA is not 
enable on the allegation that the workers lave been illegally locked out. 
So the only other point that remains for consideration is whether the 
‘ompany 1s justified in refusing to grant holiday on 118) June 1954. If 
not, what relief can the employees get. 


AWARD 


The certified standing order has been proved by the Company which 
contains direction as regards leave and holidays of the workers and clerks 
and also as to manner of publication of holidays. 1 am satisfied from the 
evidence that the standing order was duly certified after service of notice 
to the parties including Engineering Workers’ Federation, Bengal. In 
fact Engineering Workers’ Federation wrote this letter Ext. 3 acknowledg- 
ing receipt of a copy of the standing order. This certified stunding order 
is, therefore, binding on the parties. 


The Company’s case is that in accordance with the standing order they 
had been publishing a list of the annual holidays in the notice board at the 
beginning of each year (vide Ext, D series) and in 1954 a similar notice 
Ext. C was also published notifying the holidays. 1), W. 1 did not venture 
to say that there were fabricated documents. On the contrary, P. W. 1 
admitted that such notices were published by the Company but he denied 
that any such notice was published in 1954. O.P.W. 1 also proved that after 
publication of the notice, the Company grants holidays according to its 
terms and makes note thereof in the Attendance Register. Exhibit D shows 
that in 1954 the Attendance Register contained the note regarding holidays 
so declared by Ext. C. Actually for 1954 the Company did not grant holiday 
on the Dasahara day but granted holiday on some other day in lieu of it. 
If the employees were aggrieved on account of the fact that no holiday was 
declared on Dasahara day they ought to have moved the Company at once 
after the notice Ext. C waa published in the notice board. They were 
absolutely unjustified in taking the law in their hands and absenting them- 
selves on the llth of June 1954. That the Company has right to settle the 
days on which holidays are to be declared is clear from the fact that all 
that the standing order enjoins is hat the Company will have to publish 
the list of such holidays and it imposes no other reservation of their right. 
P,. W. 1 himself also practically admitted this when it admitted that the 
Company puts up such notices each year. They never said that the workers 
had any hand in the selection of the days or in fixing the number of days 
‘to be observed as holidays. So in consideration of all the circumstances 
T hold that the Company is justified in refusing to give a holiday on the 
Dasahara day afd the workers are not entitled to any relief on that score. 


8. C. MOKHERJI, 
Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 14th June 1956, 


Ry order of the Governor, 


D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2736 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 (Pant I 


ORDER 


No. 2905Dis. /49/114.-119/56.—4th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
(tovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. ,4427Dis. /D/ 
111-202/54, dated the 20th September 1954 read with #s corrigenda 
Nos. 49311)15.11)| 11142051174) dated the 27th October 1954 and 1497Dis./. 
1)/111.-82/55, dated the 11th April 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Karam Chand Thapper‘and Brothers, Ttd., 6 Royal Exchange 
Place, Calcutta-1 and their associate companies referred to in Schedule JI 
to the said order, dated the 20th September 1954, as amended, on the one 
hand and their workmen represented by Karam Chand Thapper & Brothers 
[+۰ ০০: Association, 25 Ananda Khan Lane, 08100110850) on the 
other, regarding the matters specified in the Schedule I to the said order, 
dated 20th September 1954, as amended, was referred for adjudication to 
the Fourth Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint was filed before it against the said Company by 
Shri Shiva Pada Bhattacharjee, a workman of the said Company, alleging 
re the said Company had discharged the said workman concerned in such 

ispute ; র 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of এ 
[00809] Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 18 pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


\ 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act filed by Shri Shivapada Bhattacharji, 6 Nafar Das Road, 
Calcutta-34, in connection with an industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers, Ltd., and their workmen 
represented by Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers Ltd. Employees’ 
Association referred under Covernment order No. 4427Dis./D/11L- 
2021 54) dated 20th September 1954 (Case No. 29 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suet S.C. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 


For the 7nion: Shri Satindranath Roy Chowdhury, Secretary of Karam 
Chand Thaper & Brothers Ltd. Employees’ Asanciation. 


For the Company: Shri S. ٣. Saha, Law Officer of the Company. 


While the aforesuil dispute was pending, the present application under sec- 
tion 338A of the Industrial] সু রা Act was filed by Shri Shivapada Bhatta- 
charji on the allegation that during the pendency of the said Tribunal the 
opposite party without taking any permission from the Tribunal has 
terminated the service of the petitioner by a notiee, dated 29th December 
1954, that the said action of the opposile party is a contravention of section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the action of the opposite party 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2737 


was Alegal, unjustified and capricious, that immediately atter his retrench- 
ment one man has been appointed as a clerk, that under the circumstances 
{he petitioner prays for reinstatement and full wages for the period of 
forced “unemployment and other relief. 


‘ 

Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
purty, the Company filed its written statemeut contending that the petitioner 
was not a workman concerned in the adjudication proceedings pending under 
(fovernment order of reference, dated 2Uth September 1954, that in view of 
the above fact the application under section J3A is not maintainable and 
as such should be dismissed, that even on merits there is no substance in 
the application as the appointment was purely on a temporary basis ter- 
minable without notice, that in the circumstances the Company submjts that 
the application fails on merits and as such it should be dismissed. 


The only points for decision are— 
(1) Whether the petition is tenable. 


(2) bit the petitioner is entitled to reinstatement and/or any other 
relief. 


AWARD 


Point 1.—The order of reference referred to in the petition of com- 
plaint was regarding the following issues: 


(1) 1195 the revision of the old scales of pay of typists and steno- 
graphers by the management adversely affected the old entrants? 
What should be their scales of pay? 


(2) What should be the wages of Shri Kedar Nath Ahir? 


The petitioner, who 1s a clerk in the Head Office and is neither a steno- 
erapher nor a typist, 1s obviously a person who is not in any way concerned 
in the above issue. Although the dispute was between Karam Chand 
Thapar & Brothers, Ltd. and their workmen represented by Karam Chand 
Thapar & Brothers Ltd. Employees’ Association, my award in that case will 
not affect this workman in any way. I, therefore, hold that he is not a 
person concerned in the dispute and therefore he has n6 locus stand to 
apply under section J3A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


Point 2.—Qn merits also it is found and the petitioner admitted that he 
signed and received the letter of appointment, Ext. A. He cannot be 
believed when he later tried to say that it was handed over to him in an 
envelope meaning thereby that he could not look to the contents. But the 
letter, Ext. A, contained his signature with the word ‘accepted’. So he 
cunnot be allowed to back out. Besides O.P.W. ۱, Company’s first assistant, 
proves that his appojintsnent was under Ext, A and was a temporary appéint- 
ment as stated therein. He was appointed to clear up some of arrears in 
respect of posting, some despatch of records and he worked as such. Here 
also he tried to invent a different story that he wus appointed in South 
India Department but he was forced to admit later on that he was appointed 
in Coal Sales Department as stated by O.P.W. 1. So no reliance can be 
placed on the prevaricating statements of O.P.W. 1. 


There is a clear provision in Ext. A that the service should be of a tem- 
porary nature for six months only and it further stipulates that the Com- 
pany has right to terminate his services during this period of six months 
without giving him any notice during the course of this period of six months, 
obviously if the purpose for which he was appointed is finished even before 


2738 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr ] 
وک سک‎ Se کت ھت ےس سا ھت‎ owe US EE Se 


expiry of ৪1৯ months. This has happened in this case. 0,1৮0, 1 sayé that 
the arrears which he had to make up hud been made good within six months 
and consequently Company was perfectly within its rights to discharge him 


without notice on that ground and the worker has no right,"to seas for 
wages after that (1953 K.L.J, page 62). 


Hence on merits also the petitioner has no case and he is not entitled to 
any relief. 
ও. 0. MUKHERJI, 
48006» Fourth Industrgl, Trobunal. 


The ا14‎ June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. ۶۴ MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


pat 1) MIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1960 2730 


یت 0سس س‪ سس س‪سمسسس সপ‏ 
LABOUR DIRECTORATE‏ 


90185011617 PRICE INDEX NUMBERS FOR WORKING CLASSES 
FOR’.THE DISTRICTS OF MIDNAPORE-BANKURA, NADIA- 
MURSHIDABAD, MALDA-WEST DINAJPUR, AND BIRBHUM. 


In connection with implementation of the Mintmum Wages Act, 
necessity has been felt for the preparation ,of Consumer Price Index 
Numbers for Working Classes for the different districts of West Bengal, 
hacause minimum wages enforced in the industries like Rice Mills, Oil 
Mills, Public Motor Transport, Buildings and Road Construction, etc., 
are in most cases linked with Consumer Price Index Numbers. The 
economy of Calcutta, and those of the districts are quite dissimilar and 
the দা পাশ Price Index Number prepared for Calcutta is not strictly 
‘applicable to the outlying districts. Separate series of auch Index Numbers 
have, therefore, been found to be necessary. 


In pursuance to the above principle, the following series of Consumer 
Price Index Numbers have been prepared :— 


(1) Maidnapore-Bankura,~ (2) Nudin-Murshidabad, (3) Malda-West 
Dinajpur and (4) Birbhum. ৪ 


The districts of Midnapur and Bankura, Nadia and Murshidubad and 
Malda and West Dinajpur have been taken together for preparing 
Consumer Price Index Numbers because of their geographical contiguity 
and economic homogeniety. The different Advisory Committees formed 1n 
connection with fixation of minimum wages in different industries have 
8150 recommended same rates for these pairs of districts. 


Base.—The period from January to December 1951 has been taken to 
be the base for these indices, because during that year a family budget 
survey was conducted in the above districts amongst the workers covered 
by the Minimum Wages Act, 1948. 


The annual average retail prices have been taken to be the basic quota- 
tions for the purpose of the indices. The annual averages have been 
001১1) in order to eliminate the effect of seasonal fluctuation in retail prices. 


The following centres have been selected as outlets for different series 
of Index Numbers: — 


Series of Index Numbors. Outlet. 
1. Midnapore-Bankura ve .» (1) Midnapore town. 
(2) Jhargram. 
(3) Bankura town. 
(4) Bishnupur 
2, Nadia-Murshidahad »» (1) Krishnanagar. 
(2) Berhampore. 
3. Malda-Wost Dinajpur_.. .» (1) Malda town (English Bazar). 
(2) Balurghat. 
4. Birbhum - 7 ...ےم‎ (1) Bolpur. 
(2) Saimthia. 
(3) Dubrajpur. 


N.B.—Kharagpur has not been selected, because the Working Classes 
in Kharagpur are most employed at Railway Workshops at Kharagpur and 
their composition and economic conditions differ materially from rest cf 
the Working Class families belonging to other parts of the two districts. 
Moreover, the Labour Bureau, Government of India, is preparing a 
separate Index series for Kharagpur. 


2740 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Pant I 


Price-collecting agents have been appointed in each of the?‘ above 
markets, and they collect retail prices once every week in the prescribed 
price schedules which indicate the commodity with their grades, varieties 
and units from two representative shops in each of the above markets, 
under the supervision of a Gazetted Officer. The price quotations reported 
by the agents are carefully scrutinised at the Head Office betore using 
them for tabulation and construction of the Index Numbers. 


Coverage (items covered and their weights).—Attempt has been made 
to include in the Index Numbers as many as possible of those representa- 
tive items on which consumption expenditure has been reported 1 the 
standard budgets and which tend to show characteristic price behaviours 
The items selected on this principle, for the different series of Index 
Numbers have been classified into five main groups, viz.,-(I) food, (TI) 
fuel and lighting, (III) clothing and footwear, (IV) house rent and (V). 
miscellaneous. 

The items included in the above main groups have been shown in 
Appendix II together with the weights worked out from the standard 
budgets as revealed in the family budget surveys held in 1951, with 
certain adjustments described below. 

In Appendix I may be found summaries of the items included in main 
classes together with percentages of expenditure of items 11008810901 to total 
expenditures on the group and also to total expenditures in the budget. 

It has not been possible to include in the Index seried' al® the items 
entering into the standard budgets, because either the base year prices ure 
not available, or the items are not priceable. Total weight thus lost hus 
been adjusted by adding the weights of the excluded items to those priced 
which have more or less a similar price movement as those of the excluded 
items. This procedure has been recommended by the Internatipnal 
Conference of Labour Statisticians in 1947 and has been adopted in prepura- 
tions of these indices. 

Certain items like, tomato, fowl, pork, etc., which do not appear to he 
common items of expenditure have been dropped and also in the case of 
items like ‘‘Other pulses’, ‘‘Other vegetables’, ‘Other fuel and other 
lighting’, which are not priceable, their weights have been distributed 
amongst the individual items of the same group in proportion to the 
weights of these items. 

n the clothing group, in view of the large number of grades, varieties 
and sizes of stitched garments used by the working class people, materials 
used for making these garments have been accepted for compilation of 
Index Numbers as price-fluctuation of ready-made garments are highly 
co-related with the materials from which they are made. Thus, shirting 
is taken to represent shirts, coating to represent coats, drill for trousers, 
longcloth for pyjamas, blouses and frocks have been retained as such 2৪ 
the base year price of printed cloth are not available. 


Averaging.—Simple price-relutives of each of the varieties of each of 
the constituent items are worked out in the first instance and 
then simple averages of these price-relatives ore calculated ا٥‎ 
obtain the average price fluctuation of the items over the base period. 
They were then multiplied by their respective weights and summuated. 
Group indexes were thus found out. These group indexes have been 
allotted their respective group weights as found in the Family Budzet 
Enquiry and the weighted average of the group indexes constitute the 
Consumer Price Indexes for the particular area. The figures have heen 
calculated for each of the months from January 1952 to March 1956 whiclt 
۲۰۹ mentioned in Appendix ITI. 

S. N. CHATTERJEE, 
Dy. Labour Commissioner 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2741 
APPENDIX I 
Midnapore-Bankura 
Group. No. of Percentage of Percentage of 


items. 62879150705 to expenditure on 
total expenditure items accepted 


in the group. to tota 
expenditure in 
the budget 

1, Food 7 ৪ "ও 22 90 -54 69:92 
2. Fuel and lighting 7٦ as 4 9] 3 7 92 
3. Clothing and footwear “a 7 10 001 861 
4, Miscellancous ১ 11 064 1126 
5. House rent se 7 1 100 -00 1 -58 

48 86:78 867৪. 

Nadia-Murshidabad 
1, Food), «4 7 ' 23 006 03:54 
2. Fuel and lighting 7 ar 5 08 -28 7-45 
3. Clothing and footwear a a 12 92 -89 6 -53 
4. Miscellaneous... oe ও 13 66:64 8,৪89 
&. House rent নি a a 1 000 1-73 
54 8814 88 4 
Malda-West Dinajpur 
1, Food ve 7 -۰ 24 89 4 58 5 
2. Fuel and lighting -۰ রি 5 97:44 10 -26 
$. Clothing and footwear 7 7 12 90 8 61 
4. Miscellaneous... -۰ si 11 67 1 9:67 
§. House rent 7 7 7 1 100 -00 21 
53 87 0 87 -80 
Birbhum 

1. Food oe = 7 21 021 644 
2. Fuel and lighting oe 7 5 100 -00 6:86 
8. Clothing and footwear 7 - 11 88:86 5-58 
4. Miacollancous.. 7 7 11 76.26 13 -04 
5. House rent ‘3 7 ٠ 4 100 -00 2 -00 


2742 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Part I 


APPENDIX II 


items included in Consumer Price Index series together with their weights 


TABLE No. 1 
Midnapore-Bankura 
Group. Group ltems. Original Adjusted 
weight. weight. weight 
within 
group. 
Food is a 66:16 1. Rice a on 86 -06 6018 
2. Atta 7 - 00 0:89 
8. Arhar : -7 01 05 
4, Moong 7 0 -63 1 -05 
5, Kalai 5 7 ০.70৬ 1-17 
6. Masur 80 « 2°17 
7, Potato 7۰ 7 21 3 6 
8, Brinjal 7 i 1106 1 : 
9, Onion 7 0°71 1-18 
10, Fish ae a. 2 6 7 
11. Mutton i 7 1:67 2°79 
12. Egg 0-16 07 
18. Milk 17٦ 892 
14. Ghee 7 ns 0-04 0-07 
16. Tea (Country) = 0-43 02 
16. Tea (Ready) .. ৬ ৪ ] -65 2 0 
1٦. Sugar - és 0 -98 ] -64 
18. Molasses ٠ 7 0:86 9:98 
19. Salt we 7 00 08 
20. 68 ۰ is 0-86 1 -44 
21, Holdi : 050. 0:83 


22. Mustard oil .. es 3 81 6 36 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2743‏ سم 
৯‏ 
Group. Group Items. Original Adjusted‏ 
weight, weight. weight‏ 
within‏ 
group.‏ 
Fuel and lighting -7 8:34 23. Firewood . fl 3°75 49:21‏ 
Coal ar 2 +20 28 7‏ .24 
Kerosene oil .. 1-12 14-70‏ .25 
7:22 5ا05 7 Match‏ .26 
Clothing 7 7:04 27. Dhoti 3 1 -58 24 +65‏ 
Shirting ws 1-11 17 +32‏ .28 
Drill 7۰ না 0 -52 81‏ .29 
Saree 14810 َْ 4‏ .30 
ٴ4 0.0 ۰ Blouses ٠‏ .31 
Frock - -7 0 -23 359‏ ,82 
Vest 7 i 0-10 1:86‏ .33 
Gamcha 0 "0.9 6:93‏ .34 
Bed sheet... es 0 4 0:62‏ .35 
Shoe and sandal - 0 :34 5 -30‏ .36 
Miscellaneous oe 16-88 37. Pan and supari 7[ 1 -93 17 -16‏ 
Tobacco ns ٦ 9:69 6°13‏ .38 
Biri oe 190 9‏ .39 
Cocoanut oil .. - 0 2 8 8‏ ,40 
Barbar 7 7 0-73 6 -49‏ .41 
T. soap ee - 0:14 14‏ .42 
Liquor ee ۱ 2.66 227‏ ,43 
Washing soap oe 0-72 6 -40‏ ,44 
Travelling .. ae Q -34 3 02‏ .45 
Amusement 0 -62 61‏ .46 
Education .. aie 0-71 6-31‏ .47 
Howe rent 7 1-58 48, House rent 7 1-58 ۰‏ 


2744 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr I 


TABLE No. 2 
Maida-West 1۲ 
Group. Group Items. Original Adjusted 
weight. weight. weight 
within 
group. 
Food : 0502-1 Rive : 11109 0, 
2. Attd 7 = 0-60 12 
3. Chattoo o 7 005 0-09 
4. Arhar 0-52 08 
5. Moong 7 7 07 008 
6. Kalai 0-80 1 +36 
7, Chana 0-06 0:19 
8. Masur ae 17 2 0 
9. Potato ۱ 1085 $ 
10, Brinjal : . 0:68 18 
11. Onion : 0.7] 1:98 
12. Fish a 7 89 6.07 
18. Mutton oe 0-35 09 
14. Eggs 0:09 0-15 
15. Milk 5 1 64 2۰61 
16. Ghee ۰ 010 006 
17. Tea (Country) 7 006 049 
18. Tea (Ready) .. 7 1-10 1-86 
19, Sugar ۰ 7 09 1-69 
20, Gur es ie 0-42 0°72 
21. Salt a -۰ 008 6 
22. 008 7 oe 092 18 
23. Haldi a 7 07 097 


24. Mustard oil দু 4-39 7 5 


Pat I} THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1926 2745 


a aa eared‏ >سسں->نےم ہ٤6‏ ہے 


Group. Group Items, Original Adjusted 
weight, weight. weight 
within 
group. 
7 and lighting 7 10°53 25, Coal 7 7 00 5 
26, Firewood a ۰ 7°27 70 -88 
27. Cowdung cake 7 0-85 8 0 
28. Kerosene oil .. و‎ 18 110 
29, Matches ০, 1 0°56 5-51 
Clothing 7-۰ 7 710 30. Dhuti ۰ 7 1 -30 205 
31, Shirting 7 7۰ 117 829 
32. Coating oe ৪ 0 7 114 
33. Drill -7 7 07 8 7 
34, Lungi a 7 0:13 2 3 
35. Saree 7 - 1 -56 24 2 
36. Blouses - 0-53 ৪:28 
37. Frocks -۰ -7 00 809 
38. Ganji ৮4 7٦ 06 2 7 
89. Bed sheet *, ٠ 005 0 0 
40. Gamcha ox - 0-31 4-76 
41. Shoe and sandal ۰ 0:36 6:66 
Miscellaneous wa 14:24 42, Pan and supsri 7 1 -09 1] +27 
43, Tobacco... نم‎ 0°78 753 
44, Biri a ৪% 284 29:42 
45. Hair oil is 0 87 6:99 
46. Barbar oe we 0°77 7 04 
47, T, soap - as 0:29 2:08 
48, Washing soap ٠ 04 6 -60 
49. Dhobi ۰ -۰ 06 1-70 
60. Liquor 7 ae ] -44 14:84 
5]. Travelling  .. -۰ 0:24 2 +45 
52. Amusement ৪ 0 -60 6-18 


House rent & ৬ ৪ ৪ 21 peeve 21 eo. 


2746 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Part 1 
TABLE No. 3 
Birbhum 
Group, & Group Items. Original Adjusted 
weight, weight. weight 
within 
group. 
Food 69-26 1. Rice 41°77 602 
2. Atta ٦ রি 0:26 041 
8. ۸٣ - 0:14 0 +22 
4, Moong -7 -7 0:31 08 
5. Kalai [۰1 204 
6. Masur , 2 4 88 
7. Potato : 2 -81 4 
8. Brinjal - 092 4 
9, 0 ٠ 0:88 37 
10, Fish নী 2 -68 7 lis 
11. Mutton 0-71 1-11 
12. Iggs 7 7 022 04 
13.. Milk 7 7 10 28 
14. Tea (Country) ‘ 0 44 0 -69 
15. Tea (Ready) as 9:89 199 
16. Sugar es 0-49 0-76 
17. Gur ৮ ৪ ٠ 06 14 
18. Salt 7 0:62 0:97 
19. Chillies is 7۳ 04 17 
20. Haldi sa 0:64 04 
21. Mustard oil 3:91 10 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2747 


دح سس ےر سے یسرم مو امس مس سم جس شمومممسھیجوسلوجھازعوعوپومسمكذعسسعسسک!مسسمے a‏ و سے 


Group. Group Ttems. Original Adjusted 
weight. weight. weight 
within 
group. 
Fuel and lighting ১, 5-36 22. Coal 7 “a 0-90 7679 
23. ৩০০ 7 os 2 0 52 24 
24. Cowdung cake 7 0.7 10:68 
25. سس‎ oil -. 067 19:60 
26. Matches i's 7 0:42 7.84 
Clothing oe - 6:28 27. Dhbuti -7 is ] -34 24:01 
28. Lungi a 7 0:09 11 
29. Saree 7 - 1-75 31 +36 
30. Blouses - oP 01 5 -56 
31, Frocks ae 7 0-12 2 65 
32. 06105 ae - 005 0 -90 
33, Gamcha wa 3 08 800 
34, Shoe and sandal 7 0 9 81 
85. Shirting 7 - 0-73 13 -08 
36. Coating ae os 0:05 0:96 
37. Drill 7 <n 047 8 2 
Miscellaneous oF 17-10 38. Pan and supari ae 0:83 6:86 
39. Tobacco 7 7 11 9.28 
40. Biri ie - 28 [71۷ 
41. Hair oil i ٠ 0 1 68 
42. Barbar se - 009 3-76 
43. T. soap os & 0:04 0:31 
44. Washing soap এ 06 409 
45. Liquor রি re 6-19 47-47 
46. Ganja oe . 0-05 038 
47, Travelling 2 7 0.12 0-82 
48. Amusement .. oe 01 2.38 


House rent ১, 2 9.00 49. House rent... a 2-00 


2748 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Part 1 


TABLE No. 4 
Nadia-Murshidabad 
Group. Group Items. Original Adjusted 
ابص(‎ weight. weight 
within 
group. 
Food 7 7 70°32 1. 0 7 4৮ 40 -03 01 
2. Atta 1 -02 1 -60 
3. 01180 7 5 0006 0:09 
4, Arhar - ae 0 -46 0°72 
5. Moong : 0:62 0.88 
6. 19191 0:77 11 
7. Chana 7 0:17 07 
8. Masur ۱ 7 141 22 
9. Potato 2-15 8.8 
10. 9179 ۱ 0-96 1-51 
11. Onion 0:72 1:13 
12, Fish : ۱ 3°37 60 
13. Mutton sa 7 ار‎ 1-0 
.4ا‎ Egg 7 ১012 09 
15. Milk i i 2 03 0 
16. Tea (Country) 7 0:42 0-68 
17, Tea (Ready) .. -۰ 11 208 
18. Sugar ٠ 8 0-81 1 +27 
19. Gur es ৬ ॥ 009 098 
20. Salt -7 -7 09 0-6] 
21. Chillies - ae 006 11 
22. 108 2 ১৮ ০04 0-74 


28, Mustard oil .. -7 3-48 ৪:4৪ 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 2749 

Croup. Group Items, Original Adjusted 

weight. weight. weight 

within 

group. 

fuel and lighting 7:68 24. Coal 1:60 21 8 
25. Firowood 8 0 46:85 

26. Cowdung cake 0 -66 8 0 

27. Kerosene oil 1 -22 07 

28. Matches 048 6-44 

Clothing 7-03 29. Dhuti 16 [0 
80. Lungi 097 0ئ‎ 

31. Saree : ] -55 29:74 

82. Blouse 0:86 5 +36 

33. Frock ‘ 00 0 

34. Vest i ; 0:82 4-90 

35. Bed sheet ৪ 0:09 188 

86. Shoe and sandal 044 6:74 

87. Shirting is 1-18 17 -30 

38. Coating ak 007 ] -07 

89. Drill 047 7 +20 

40. Gamcha ১ ৮৪ 0.28 4-29 

Miscellaneous و‎ 13:34 41 Pan and supari টি 1-18 7 
42. Tobacco : ٠ 00 2 656 

43. Biri ৮ 28 29 2 

44. Hair oil cs 0-85 9 -56 

45. Barbar ৪ 074 8 2 

46. ٣٦۰ soap . 0°10 1°18 

47. Washing soap 7 0-80 9 -00 

48, Dhobi ৪৪ ৮ 0:08 00 

49. Liquor : 0:84 9:45 

60. Opium 7 0:09 1-01 

61. Travelling 7 : 0-34 $ -83 

52, Amusoment 0-73 8 1 

63. Education 0-36 4-05 

House rent re 1-73 84. Houserent.. 1 +73 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr I 


2750 


Esse £4 £3} Sel eee 
ec ee eee eee eee 
Eee eee 


‘ee 
eae eee 
Eel ee eee ees 


96 


99 


$6 


*10q 
آ09“‎ 


96 


89 


96 


*এ৪৭ 


56 


OL 


¥6 


-10q 


16 


GL 


86 


وود* 
“28:০1 -0700 -0597093 "রীতা‏ 


8860৫050188 085 ৪91 نا1(‎ 55 808 5955513 3089508) 500 49818188908) 9319৫ 48888158800 


16 


ol 


96 


901 


16 


5 


¥6 


TOT 


“Ame 


501 


564 


6 


اسسشپ 


"| “ON 32 


রিনি 
۴6 06 68 
آ00 آ00 آ00‎ 
SOT ۶01 IOI 
SL SL BL 
ড় ¥6 ۴6 
06 88 98 
"AB শান چرجدنہ*.‎ 
1ئ‎ 
"O0I—IG6L ٭:‎ sveh ৯৪0০ 


‘TTT 0٣۳ 


16 o6 

007 007 

£0£ 01 

68 ৪৪ 

2) £6 

06 نل 
*Are‏ 


$8 -OT 


۴05 


3ئ 


91-99 


“niqey “Arenuvep “4421044 


و0901 


 *‏ ٌ1ہمو37)::1 


° کت ھی ھ وت نین 


]:۵٭ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 0 


part I] 


2 وسمہسسی کے کہہے ے‎ ১8 شش تج‎  _ 0ے م_‎ a neg ee a SESS EEE a = . 


বররন হাতের সরল ermine a 2 ہے سے سے ہی جوچھو وجار‎ ESE eee ee وسویسہیسوچٰہجچجے‎ 


5৪ Ls 68 
007 آ00 آ00‎ 
99 16 {6 
9 19 9 
¥6 6 66 
18 28 16 
"2 “৪9৭ اپ‎ 
0৪০০ 


16 


“104 
-UIBAON -০790 -wozdeg ۷ء‎ 


“Ame 


نت 


"চু 


st 
001 آ00‎ 
L6 96 

¥9 £9 

96 £6 

£8 98 
এ 


86 86 L6 
9 39 99 
16 16 ৪6 
¥6 FOI 90T 
"490 "104 “۹ 


6 


601 


ই. 009০০ +-MIGAON -০$০0 ۱ء ووفرمص-۔‎ 


eit 


اسان 


901 


101 


“ACW 


রাও 


১৩১১ 


পার 


“Horsey 


L8 18 
001 0017 
£6 96 
9 وو‎ 
06 16 
98 2 
এ 


-nigeyq "রা ہ۶‎ 


০০০৭০৪০) 


° ]70ہ ہو 

৪0০090119০5 FL * 
37۲11010 * 
2301185۲ pus feng * 


eo তি poo ডু 


ا 


60600100000 


* ہ810 quel‏ 
و سپہئ ائپییئین 

21۲101010 ٠ 
57721 pus jong * 


*- poog * 


4৪2৪] 


[Pant 1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


2752 


ée 88 68 00-001. * peuiquiog 

001 001 001 897 টি as qguezesnoyHl "ও 

ر و یئ اہین یر *" °° 88-91 £6 £6 £6 

99 9 9 ۴۰ si of مرا سیت‎ *£ 

901 8 و۶ ا38‎ 23131:۲1 pus jong ত 

as 98 L8 91:99 °° ০৪ ** poog ‘I 

"£8 تر ١ر ا‎ ١ 
تحدہ]!"‎ -niqeg ٠گ‎ 
“1 
Ew রর উওর নিল শি ভি িউউউউ উনি ———— পারাটা লি উজ سپ جرح‎ টিটি 
88 68 ee ৪৪ 6৪ 88 cg 28 18 38 8 78 00-001 °° 0901100 
001 آ00 00 آ00 001 001 001 007 آ00 ہو0‎ 001 001 89 টা ٠ quer 6:0 
16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 06 26 26 16 ৪৪:91 °° °° —- SNOSTRTOIST FT 
৪৪ 19 29 €9 £9 9 89 89 £9 €9 69 £9 = ٦ و‎ 8010 
i 

L6 ¥6 #6 ۴6 ۴0 ۴6 6 £6 26 16 7 6 os if 501451 pus feng 
68 16 16 68 06 88 وج‎ 08 6L 08 8 88 91:99 °°" ٠ °° poo 
"290 ادس اپ‎ ঞঞ্ন ۸ نر‎ 


* تر‎ 
ک0م۔-‎ 059০৮ وەقرمت-۔ رججہ-‎ “ডা -Amp ওতো "এ چتّىتىی۔-‎ ‘yorwpy -niqegq ‘Arenuve 


61 


مر ا مہ A‏ ہے 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


part I] 


০০১টি ০০০০৬ 


০ নে এ নিট সি eel eee eee 
ae Cee St ee 


08 66 L6 6 
آ00 آ00 آ00‎ 007 
۶6 v6 £6 56 
cL 2 SL 8L 
601 801 7 لگ‎ 6017 
5 06 L6 | ৪6 


“৪০ ৪৪৭ 9 “39 


-UIGIE@G] -WIOAON -০%০0 -we}deg 


¥6 


OFT 


6 


“185۲1301۷7 


L6 


٤8 


880৬৪ 95744] 9‏ 74 59887 498 ٰیر30 3011 جٌر .وع" 


66 


"8 


দানি 
5৪ £6 ॥ 
001 OO! 001 
86 66 001 
89 28 989 
21 81 (01 
LS ৪৪ Lg 
এগ “ছাএ "সস 
"S961 


"OOF = 267 4004 - 200g 


انا 205۲8- ایز 189 5810 "900৫1‏ 


৪ মগ & 


‘I 7 3)0 


TOT 


ool 


¥6 


‘Are 6 6‘Arenuvp 8۸ب“‎ 
-niqe 


98 


Il 


001 


00001 


اوت 


OI-L 


€9 1 


69-29 


pourquray 


quel esnoyy ٭‎ 


ھن می ان یں 


3111010 " 


গে pus jong " 


٠٠ poog * 


“50387 7ু 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Parr 1 


2754 


পর পা pee es eS সালা আপনে‏ سػصى সস আস সপ উস‏ سے سس 
৪9 IL EL PL OL GL GL SL £& 6 GL bL 00-001 ~° ০৪008)‏ 
quer 0910‏ 3 ۲1986" آ00 007 آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00" آ00 001 007 
6৪ 6৪ ০ £8 98 68 06 06 06 68 06 06 ٣] *” 92009911০57‏ 
OL 27 91 27 IL 69 7 OL Ol-h °° Bart 019‏ ر3 IL‏ ۶1 27 

06 06 96 2 601 6 £6 ۶01 col €01 96 L6 8:۰01 -" garjqsy اص‎ jong ٭‎ 
09 9 £9 £9 69 89 89 99 £9 29 69 99 689-499 = ** poo 
0۹د“‎ ১০ "290 ‘loquie? ysngny ‘Ame ات‎ “এস ‘Tudw i ‘qorepo ‘Areni ‘Are 4۹ ز١‎ 

"9০০7 "০০1 -০9০০ -deg -qoqg -nuse 

"61 
LL 6L 5৪ 68 68 06 98 cs €8 GL 9L 9L 00-00I ~~ ০০০70 
007 001 آ00‎ 901 001 oor آ00 آ00 آ00 00۰ !00 آ00‎ ওত au ০০ ৭ کک‎ 
06. 16 16 €6 16 £6 66 66 56 66 66 66 124 8. سے ايیین نے‎ * 
6৪ 85 PL 94 LL LL GL 94. GL SL OL SL 0. as دوہ یی شس‎ 
oI olt 28 981 eit 11 It FIT 01 61 91 FIT 9۰0؟‎ 1 77٦ 20113 pus jen * 
89 tL QL 3৪ 98 L8 18 6L €L 89 99 99 69-899 ~° pooy ۲ 
*10q, "এন “এ9ণ] 'এগুন 29280 ‘Ame “9 “এগ "০ -qorepp এপার ‘Are 4۹ ٭-‎ 1 

"হানে [*‏ آزر0]9- 2097499- حجموہ- پرہەہہت- -ছা০০০ছ‏ 


"61 


NOW‏ کہم 


2755 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


pany || 


PL 6 €L 
آ00 آ00‎ 
BL 18 
98 5৪ 
L8 88 
OL 99 
‘qoispy ٠5490 
نے‎ 
Ca — 5 ররর চে ০ omega 
LL 19 8L SL 6L LL @ ا‎ 
ee | وسچسےےج‎ ০০ উল oe ছি 8৯৮ 
00. 001 0901 001 آ00‎ ০01 ৪01 
6 08 18 8 18 68 64 
OL 99 99 وا‎ Lo 99 89 
0 00+7 آ60‎ OTT eel ا3‎ Lol 
FL LL SL ol SL 69 g9 
9۹د“ امس‎ “+09 “13g 
چچرمہدں- کچوددی۔‎ -০২০০ 5০799 qmany ‘Ag ‘sung 


017 

2: 

2 

OI-L 

£9-O1 

99ء 

7513 ۸ 
OL Lo 
001 00£ 
£8 18 
OL 69 
41 66 
89 LQ 

judy -qoreyy 


۲۰۱10000 
1ئ que1‏ 
COST TT‏ | ن زان ئا تن 
20111010 
pus jon‏ 131ھ 
poo,‏ 
ا 
00:00 99 8و0" 
6:৮4‏ | آ0 001 
او 18 18 
OIL‏ 69 89 
4+9۱ 6 06 
Lg Lg 39°99‏ 
٢ں‏ با £18“ اک پک 
সাই‏ ا نی نلچ 


৯১‏ فص جم ہہ کہ 


6300 


quel ہ1‎ 


৪৮৮০০0119০5) 


20010 


20+1211 pus ع1908‎ - 


৮০০৩ کہ‎ 


৮৪091] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1906 | 1১41 | 


2766 


£6 


99 


£6 


96 


الین 


“৪০০ 


6 £6 66 
99 GL €L 
56 6 18 


0181 [01 66 


'ওও৭ 39 


-WIeAONT ০২90 -03979০3 


eu 


66 


চিত 


96 


انام 


01 


"এন  -رھەھتچ‎ “Ane 


پت 


£6 


OL 


“ABW 


LL 


66 


7 


6561 


نوہاہ تا 


16 


é8 


66 


“yore yy 


001 71461 ৮০০4 ২ ong 


£6 


66 


ور 
-niqe7q‏ 


L6 


“Are 
-nuse 


3৪৪2 88860‏ 63188 26680 ززت لا ۵۹۸ 58815891897 5555510 


288 OM 3192 


It XIGNAdd Vv 


89 


ول 


98:69 


1894 


۲09010000 


quel osnoyy ٠ 


* ا2010 


jeng °‏ تاج ق2011 


۲ ০০ 


“হি 8€৮ ॥ 


Part I] 


1963 


July. August. tember. 


June. 


May. 


Feb- 
۔‎  Yuary. March. April. 


Janu- 
ary 


Weight. 
e 69-26 


Ttems. 


یح 
এ ৩১‏ 


ped 
ہے‎ 
اس‎ 


৬ 
youd 
জজ 


123 


128 


1. Food 


95 


93 


2. Fuel and light.1g 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


نگ 
ما 


3. Clothmg 


ও 


এ 
oe 


گا 
Ga‏ 


92 


- 17-10 


4. Miscellaneous 


100 


2-00 


5. House rent 


Combined 


iu 
By ৪ 
এ 
"ge 8 
৫" 
১৫ ৪ 
28 
ا‎ 
ہے‎ 
৮১ 5 
8 
সি 

g 3 
cs 
2 > 
a 8 
5 
a & 
2 

ও টসে 
60 
a 


Janu 
ary. 
9 


Weight. 
69-26 


Items. 
Food 


85 


2. fuel and lighting 


6-28 


Clothing 


72 


$ 


৪ 17-18 


4. Miscellancous 


100 


100 


100 


2-00 


5. House rent 


Combined 


کے تس کسی ۱۹ے کٹا এজি, (কাচ ee‏ 
আআ‏ 
سے 


চি 

= 96 98 16 00-008 °° ০০৭০০ 

ےت ہہ 

017 آ00 آ00‎ 00°3 a ডি 097و‎ 980০7 ٠ي‎ 

201 col SOI 0-1 রর 1 90০০ [19০]থ “৮ 

পে ৪9 99 LO 82-9 = = 230:910 ٠ع‎ 

০২ 16 98 98 9و9‎ 5 Sunysy 000 صور‎ َ °Z 

L6 98 16 93°69 ae = ০০০৭"‏ بۓ 

{> 

- ১৮১11 “Areniqeg ‘Arenuse “44313 A وی و‎ 

2 sel 

68 

[২ 

= টিটি + সস তত ইউ pe ieee oes Gamers Be oe ee fey ie, ees 

2 3 آ00 آ00‎ 66 86 96 06 68 L8 68 68 16 00 00 °° puniqmay 

pes fees PE‏ سمحسو+ےمککس۔ এজ) = ae Gamat: oe 8055 লুল ০ ০০‏ بھوو تم یکاسے حصمد نوا আসেনি‏ اسم 

2 

cane *‏ +ہتاو 7 00°% آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00 آ00 001 آ00 01 آ00 آ00 آ00 سے 

<d C 

তে 801 20 ZOT £01 801 801 2۱ 801 01ء‎ FOI FOT FOI Ol-LT ০, SNOUT OVET YE 

= ¥9 99 এ 9 19 99 99 99 !9 L9 Lo 9 82-9 7 80910 

শপ 7: 88 89 98 88 L8 16 06 06 *8 20 gs اکا‎ 3 5:5: 0০৭ jong - 
6 POI «801 201 I0I L6 68 Lg cg Ls Ls 06 98:69 °° poog 
ات ۳ ا اس اس اس‎ “Are *Aiv 

5 ৪০৪0. گرمدد۔-‎ -০790 -udeg “ynEny “dine "9০৮ এগ] پچورحمب۔' پتسب۔‎ -nageg =-nuwe “74310. 0৮৮ 

হস 81 


6 + © ہم مہ 


2759 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


Part 1] 


Lol lll 801 LIT 101 L6 007 col 00-001 ** 09010000‏ 66 96 36 وج 

* چرہہ- سو 7 اھ آ00 001 001 007 ?00 آ00 001 001 01ء oor OOT‏ 017 
۱ 

و gnoeuByoor,‏ مد دو رو تی آ00 66 66 آ00 66 18 96 26 96 16 16 96 

SL 6L 08 18 989 68 L8 98 86 ৪0: 5 7 201111010‏ ل6 SL‏ ىا 

88 68 06 [01 10! 901 a6 ৪৪ 86 96 [01 66 ৪8০4, রি 2901(3: 00 jong * 

لے 
° یہ مآ = ** rast 26 L6 501 01 StI "1 817 cot 86 101 GOT Ze-OL‏ 
"AIG‏ ت2 3ء“ پود- ایس الم 
ا ,30289" -009০9 “০০০৯০ ০190 -jdeg 4yemngny ‘Aine -ounr ‘ABW qudy "এড -niqey “nuep‏ 
"soe‏ 


09] "1267 440d * 9807 
ঢিতড 91883 88-5165 14 
SOSSUID 881%18917) 308 59%1881888 85981 93141 81 4 
AION 3198721 


111 2 0 


[Part] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


2760 


£6 


L6 


-mejdeg -yenany 112 


۹7 


1۲ 


€L 


SL 


"AIG 
‘(alee 4 -Nigqey -nussr 


00-0017 *" 


8, 


ve - EI 
£0°L 
৪9 -4 
GE -OL 


* (0: 44 


0000۲1 ٠ 


8 
9ئ 
ط803 
.89 


65 08 ° 


"27579.8% 


peuiq m0) 


এ °‏ 1> یتو 


‘+ 8209051199৪ * 


201150 
Suga pue peng " 
5 pooj 


১:০4 


901010 


quay ہ٥٥‎ * 


و ١ژ‏ نکی °° 


23011610 


2011811 pue 190 * 


poo,y 


ای 


ہک بے © ہج بےم 


a তত ০১ یہ‎ ৬৩ 


201 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


۸7 1[ 


61. SL tL 00007 09010000 
007 آ00‎ 001 ELF quel 9৪০] 9 
16 16 16 ۶1 200101 1د ت0‎ ۴ 
GL SL GL 804 230130]( "৪ 
08 88 06 :175ھ رین‎ pus neq ٠ي‎ 
91. OL 69 SE -OL ss pooy “চু 
‘qareyy ‘Areniqeg “Arenuee ای نے یں‎ 48097] 
۰ . 1 
LL 6L 08 6L 08 SL LL QL PL GL PL tL 00-001 pauiquiag 
سے سے‎ নি সা ৭ শশা ——— بس ہہت سے سے‎ 25 8 
آ00‎ 007 _ OOT آ00 007 007 001 901 آ00 آ00‎ 001 001 ELT quer osnoyyT 
16 16 ۶6 £6 ۔+‎ চি 6 96 96 96 96 $6 96 vE-SI * 811031101100911۴ 
37 2 FL FL PL 2 FL rE 8 PL ol SL £0-L 9811110 
£6 68 6 98 ¥6 06 98 9 #8 Ls €8 €8 891 ق2019‎ pus jeng * 
SL OL 9 SL 9L ا ا3‎ OL 89 69 89 69 28:08 pooy " 
۱ ۱ کک‎ 
مض‎ নী আও “0390 -maideg sngny ممھ-‎ ‘eung “Ae ody چرەىدہ۔‎ and ০ ৮০০০ رچوںںء-‎ 
8961 


ف ‏ جح 


Registered No. C207 


0 082۲1۲ 


THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1956 


PART ¥A—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 


and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL, OF 
: “ INDIA, CALCUTTA 


(1) Appeal No, Cal.-37 of 1953 


Titagarh Paper Mills, Ltd. (No. 1) ... Appellant, 
versus 
Paper Mills Employees’ Union, Titagarh ... Respondent. 


(2) Appeal No, 08٠-40 of 1953 


Workmen of Messrs. Titagarh Paper Mill No. 1 
as represented by the Paper Mulls Employees’ 
Union, 24-Parganas ave . Appellant, 

versus 


Titagarh Paper Mills, Lid. (No. 1), Titagarh ... Respdndent. 


In the matter of appeals against the award of Shri M. 6. Banerjee, Judge, 
industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, made on 13th March 1953 in respect 
of an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 19th December 1953. 


PRESENT: 


MR. M. N. GAN, President. 
MR. V. N. DIKSHITULU, 17461:66. 


APPEARANCES! 


For the Company: * Mr, K. B. Basu, Bar.-at-Law, with Shri J. .کا‎ Ghose, 
Advocate and Shri K. L. Chatterjee of Messrs. Orr, Dignam & Co., 
instructed by Shri 8. Ghose, Officer of the Company. 


For the Union: Shri Nirén De, Bar.-at-Law, assisted by Mr. D. L. Sen 
Gupta, Advocate. = 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry Paper. 


DECISION 


1 These two appéals are preferred ogainst one and the same award of 
the First Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, dated 13th March 1958, and 
published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 9thwApril 1953, under the order 
of the Government of West Bengal No 1084Dis./D/11L-56/58, dated Ist 
April 1958, one by the Management of Titaghur Paper Mills Co., Ltd. (No. 1 
Mill), and the other by thei: workmen represented by the Paper Mills 


286 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Tarr TA 


صسوعپچپستتتحبتبتیت س1چ سس ےت سشجشبم‌ٴ‌۹_ةہب ۸4‏ ّْٔ۔ع۔رژٹ ‏ جب ژ ژچژںسسسپسبہہبسسووس۰اتسہےس۔بییپیسییےچجبڑبھھممٹڑسکس٢وٌسکصسھوووھسجت--ب-×وہ Fe‏ 


| 


Employees’ Union, Titaghur. This the appellants in each appeal are the 
respondents in the other, Therefoxg, it will be convenient to deal with the 
two appeals together. 


2. The industrial dispute referred for adjudication to the Lower 
Tribunal was about the questions (a) whether the dismissal of 11 of the 
workmen of the Company by an order of the Manager, dated 23rd September 
1950, was justified and (b) whether the said 11 workmen were entitled to 
reinstatement and/or compensation. 


3. The undisputed facts are as follows:— 


In 1947, 1948 and 1949 the Company paid one month’s basic wage to 
each of the workers as advance before Durga 1৮110 recoverable in easy 
monthly instalments. By an award published in the Calcutta Gazette, 
dated lst December 1949, the workmen became entitled to production 
bonus. On 12th September 1950, the Company gave notice that the said 
production bonus would be paid to the workmen before Durga Puja but 
not the advance as was paid in previous years. The workmen got 
dissatisfied. 


4, On 19th September 1950, the incidents which led to the dismissal of 
11 workmen took place. The management’s version of the incidents 8 
as follows :— 


In the morning a large crowd of workmen gathered in front of the 
Manager’s office and clamoured that the Manager should have a talk 
with them. The Manuger expressed willingness to talk to a small 
delegation but not to the large crowd. The crowd gradually dispersed. 
The Manager and the Cost Accountant were proceeding from the office 
towards their houses, at about 1 p.m., to take lunch. While Hey were 
passing through the machine house, a large crowd of workmen led by 
the 11 dismissed workmen suddenly surrounded them and informed 
them that they would not be allowed to leave the place till their 
demands were conceded and barred their way so that the officers had to 
remain on the spot surrounded by the workmen till police, who were 
sent for, arrived by about 4-30 p.m., after which they were able to 
sroceed to their houses. On 20th September 1958 charge-sheets under 

tanding Orders ات‎ and 19(b)(5) were issued calling for explana- 
tion and enquiry was held on 23rd September 1950 after due notice and 
the orders of dismissal were passed on the same day, by the Manager. 


5. The police prosecuted the 11 workmen for offences under sections 
149 and 342 of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of the incident, dated 
19th September 1950, between 1 and 4-30 p.m., but the workmen were 
discharged by the Magistrate. 


6. The version of the workmen is that they in a batch merely 
approached the Manager in connection with payment of Puja advance which 
was delayed and that the Manager refused to talk to them and that after 
8 hours or so the police were sent for and false prosecution was launched 
and that after the men were discharged by the Magistrate, the Company 
refused to take them back into service and that this is a case of victimisation 
and unfair labour practice. 


7. Qn the materials placed before it, the Lower Tribunal came to the 
conclusion (i) that the version of the management was substantially correct 
as to the incident between 1 and 4-30 on 19th September 1950, (11) that 
the 11 dismissed men took active part in the incident and thus committed 
the offences of insubordination and disobedience under Standing Orders 
19(b)(5) and 19(b)(3), (151) that the requirements of natural justice were 
ام‎ complied with in the proceedings held by the Management culminating 
in the dismissal order and (iv) that there was no victimisation or unfair 
labour practice in taking disciplinary action against the men. The lower 
Tribunal next turned 1ta mind to the question of punishment and came 
to the conclusion that, in view of the fact that the men were misguided and 
did not use violence and that the Manager passed the order of dismissal 
in violation of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, during the 
pendency of conciliation proceedings, these 11 men should be discharged 
under Standing Order 18 on payment of 7 days’ wages in lieu of notice 
and on payment &1 gratuity at 15 days’ basic pay for each completed year 
of service subject ٠ a minimum of 3 months’ basic pay, within one month 
after the date on which the award came into operation. The workmen in 
their appeal challenged the ndings on the ments and the award approving 
disciplinary action and glaimed reinstatement. The Company in their 
appeal challenged the #®ard by which the lower ‘Tribunal substituted 
discharge accompanied by payment of a weck's wages in lieu of notice and 
gratuity, under Standing Order 18, for dismissal. * 


First turning our attention to the appeal hy the workmen it is 
conceded that it will not be maintainable unless if involves some substantial 
question of law within thesaneaning of section 7(1)(a) of the Industrial 
Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950. The learned Counsel for the 
workmen formulated the following four points as the substantial questions 
of law involved, vaz., (i) on the same set of facts (1,088. workmen were 


کو ے 


Part TA] 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


287 


১১ 


prosecuted before a competenf criminal court and were discharged. 
Therefore, the Industrial Triburjal should not come to a different conclusion 
and should not substitute its different decision. (ii) The facts alleged by 
the Company and found to be true by the lower Tribunal, amount to a 
strike though short-lived. between 1 p.m. to 4-30 p.m. Therefore, Standing 
Orders have no application to those workmen who took part in the strike and 
hence they cannot be punished under Standing Orders 19(b)(3) and 
19(b)(6). (৫10) Acgording to the Company’s case the Manager was perso- 
nally involved in the incident and therefore he was a direct witness. He 
subsequently played the role of prosecutor and judge in framing charges, 
holding enquiry and deciding the case against the workmen and inflicting 
the punishment of dismissal. This combination of witness, prosecutor and 
judge in one person is opposed to law. (iv) The lower, Tribunal found the 
workmen guilty of the offence of ‘‘insubordination and disobedience of 
lawful and reasonable order of the superior’, but the charge framed by the 
Manager in the charge-sheet on the basis of which he dismissed these 
workmen does not contain the charge of the offence as found by the lower 
Tribunal. Thus thé lower Tribunal upheld disciplinary action taken by 
the Manager against the workmen on a charge which was not levelled 
against them by the Manager and against which they had no opportunity 
to defend themselves. 


9. In our opinion, point No. (i) raises no substantial question of ۰ 
To start with, the learned Counsel for the workmen conceded that he could 
not contend that the decision of the criminal court operated as res judicata. 
If so, nothing stands in the way of the Industrial Tribunal’s examining the 
evidence and facts and arriving at its own conclusion. This proposition 
receives support from the decision reported in 1952 II L.L., p. 36 
(Indian Copper Corporation Ltd. vs. Tripati). On such examination the 
Tribunal may come to the same conclusion as that arrived at by the 
criminal court or to a different conclusion. The point as formulated reads 
as if a substantial question of law will be involved only if the Industrial 
Tribunal comes to a conclusion different from the one arrived at by the 
criminal court. If there should be any bar, it should be against a second 
examination of the facts and evidence and not against arriving at a conclu- 
sion, one way. If it is a matter of mere advisability or otherwise of the 
Industrial Tribunal coming to a conclusion different from the conclusion 
arrived at by the criminal court, no question of law at all will be involved. 
There is no question of the Industrial Tribunal substituting its decision for 
the decision of the criminal court. Whatever the conclusion of the 
Industrial Tribunal may be the order of discharge passed by the 
Magistrate stands good. The fields of operation of the two Tribunals are 
different. The criminal court’s function is to punish people for acts which 
amount to offences against society, though a private individual might be the 
immediate victim. The function of the Industrial Tribunal in this case is 
only to uphold or set aside the disciplinary action taken by the management 
of a private concern against its own workmen who are alleged to have 
misconducted themselves in their behaviour towards a superior officer. 
Such conduct of the workmen may not amount to an offence under the 
Indian Penal Code but may be misconduct sufficient to deserve disciplinary 
action. Hence if the Industrial Tribunal upholds the disciplinary action 
taken by the Manager, it is, in no sense, a substitution for the decision of 
the criminal court. The two can exist independently of each other. 


10. According to the learned Counsel for the workmen, point No. ا‎ 
is of great general importance affecting all workmen in the industrial field. 
It may be so, but in our opinion that is not a test to determine whether the 
point raised is a substantial question of law. A substantial question of law 
will remain to be such even 11 a decision on it is going to affect one or two 
individuals. A point which does not raise a question of law or raises a 
question of law which is not substantial otherwise, cannot become a sub- 
stantial question of law for the reason that a decision thereon will affect a 
large number of people. 


11. Without deciding, we shall assume, for purposes of this point, 
that there was a strike by the workmen from 1 p.m. to 4-30 p.m. on 19th 
September 1950. The question is whether the Standing Orders cease to 
have operation, in the sense that none of the workmen who took part in the 
strike can be dealt with undér the Standing @rders for any misconduct 
defined and made punishable by the Standing Orders. The learned Counsel 
for the workmen ۹1۹4 not draw our attention to any provision of law or prece- 
dent on the strength of which Standing Orders ‘cease to have operation by 
virtue of a strike. Tet us see if there is any principle which can support 
the contention. Standing Orders are framed by the management in 
exercise of statutory powers under the Industrial Employment (Standing 
Orders) Act, 1946, and are submitted to the certifying authority constituted 
under the styye Act. That authority, after giving notice to the workmen 
and after heating them and the management, arrives at a decision whether 
or nol, the Standing Orders submitted to if comply with the provisions of 
the Act and the model Standing Orders as far as possible. He certifies the 
Standing Orders only if and when they satisfy the requirements of the Act, 
if necessary by suitable alterations. An appeal lies against such decision. 
Once ghey are certified the Standing Orders come into operation within the 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


time prescribed by section 7 of the Act and become the terms of employment 
and contract of service between the management and the workmen. If the 
workmen are dissatisfied with the Standing Orders or any of them on the 
ground that they are unfair or unjust, an Industrial Dispute arises under 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Then the Standing Orders may be 
subjected to alteration or addition or modification as may be adjudicated 
upon by an Industrial Tribunal. Terms of employment and conditions of 
service are normally matters of bilateral contract. The Industrial Employ- 
ment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, has evolved an alternative statutory 
method of bringing into existence terms of employment and conditions of 
service in establishments of a certain size. Though Standing Orders are not 
the result of a bilateral contract, the characteristics of a bilateral] contract 
are not altogether absent, because the management are the authors thereof 
and the workmen have a say in the matter and can take steps before duly 
constituted authorities to alter them. Such being the case there can be no 
principle known to law underlying the proposition advanced before us that 
Standing Orders cease to be applicable to workmen who go on atrike by a 
unilateral decision. 


12. The whole basis for the contention raised on behalf of the work- 
men is that a strike is now recognised as lawful though it is a deliberate 
breach of contract of service and that therefore the terms of that contract 
in the shape of Standing Orders can no more be of any application to the 
strikers. A strike is recognised as lawful only to the extent of the cessation 
of work or refusal to continue to work though in breach of contract of 
service. Therefore, it is easy to understand a proposition that the cessa- 
tion of work or refusal ما‎ work cannot be punished os amounting to disobe- 
dience and if there is a Standing Order which makes cessation of work or 
refusal to work punishable, it will remain in suspension or abeyance during 
the strike. But to say. that Standing Orders as a whole cease to have 
operation on the commencement of a strike is not understandable. 


In our case there is a Standing Order providing for punishment for theft 
or damage to machinery. The argument, if accepted, will result in the 
proposition that if the strikers steal goods or damage machinery re a 
siete: no action under the Standing Orders can be taken. The absurdity 
of such a position 1s self-evident. There is nothing in law which deprives 
the statutory Standing Orders of all operations during a strike by the 
workmen. The Standing Orders remain in full operation irrespective of a 
strike but for the fact that the mere cessation of work or refusal to work 
cannot he dealt with as misconduct under the Standing Orders. If thereby 
acts of insubordination or disobedience of lawful orders otherwise than by 
mere cessation of work, the same can be dealt with under the Standing 
Orders, causing disturbance is no part of a strike. It is outside the lawful 
scope of a strike, though in practice disturbance accompany strikes. If 
disturbance was caused by the strikers on the mill premises, they can be 
dealt with under the Standing Orders. Whether there has been such 
causing disturbance or insubordination or disobedience, is a question of fact. 
We are of opinion that there is no substantial question of law involved in 
this appeal in consequence of the workmen having been dealt with under the 
Standing Orders for acts alleged to have been perpetrated during the 
incident in question, even if it amounts to a strike. 


13. Next coming to point (211) we have first to seé that Standing 
Order 19 provides that the Manager is the only authority who can dismiss 
an operative. Therefore, the Manager could not delegate the duty to some 
one else. As the Manager himself is alleged to be the vietim of the acts 
of the workmen, if the Manager deputed a subordinate to hold the enquiry, 
it is likely to be attached as hypocrisy on the ground that a subordinate 
cannot be expected to give a finding against the evidence of the Manager. 
It is inconceivable for the Manager to appoint an outsider for holding a 
disciplinary enquiry. Therefore, in this case, the Manager examined 
witnesses to the occurrence and tested the evidence with his own ‘personal 
knowledge. That was the best that could be done under the circumstances. 


14. Supposing for a moment that the fact that the Manager who was 
himself witness to the incident held the enquiry, makes the enquiry and 
findings and punishment unlawful, the consequence should not be to set 
aside the punishment infliged by the Manager, simply for that reason. As 
the matter has come up before an independent Tribunal, the correct course 
is for the Tribunal to satisfy itself on the materials placed before it by 
both sides, whether the punishment should be allowed to stand or not, on 
merits. In other words the Tribunal should do what it is expected to do, 
if there was no enquiry at all or jf the enquiry did not satisfy the require- 
ments of natural justice. This case cannot be worse than o case in which 
no charges are framed and no enquiry is held but punishment is awarded. 
In this case, though the lower Tribunal found as a matter of fact, that the 
enquiry satisfied the requirements of a natura] justice, “it thoroughly 
examined the facts and merits as disclosed in the voluminots evidence adduc- 
ed by both sides including the oral evidence of the Manager and then arrived 
at ita own conclusion. Hence no substantial question of law arises in this 
appeal, from the fact that the Manager who was a witness to the incident, 
held the enquiry. 


[Tart IA 


Part IA] ‘THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 289 


مسےوسس تحص ...تح ٍْھٍْ_س.س ےوک :سس ت'ُ '-۔ . ے ت ...یس سے صس>_کتت__[_-۔.-ت-س-ح-ستت- تیبرت : سہ"۳“ص“: ک a‏ 


15. Next coming to point (ii) iff is true that the clause ‘‘insubordination 
and disobedience of lawful and resonable order of the superior’ is not 
found in the charge-sheets. The ‘uctual wording of the charge-sheets is 
“‘whereas on 19th September 1950, you along with others wrongfully 
restrained and confined the undersigned against their will thus 
causing disturbance in the® Mill, you are required to show cause by 
2180 September 1950, why disciplinary action should not be taken against 
you under 19(b)(8) and ای‎ of Standing Orders’’. Henge we have to 
see whether, on the facts of this case, the lower Tribunal allowed the 
management to justify a punishment inflicted on the basis of one charge by 
proving a different charge to meet which the workmen had no opportunity. 
There could be absolutely no difficulty for the workmen who were charged 
to understand that the charges related to the incidents on 19th September 
1950 as the date was mentioned in the charge-sheets. According to the 
case of the workmen also, the Manager, on 19th September 1950 remained 
amidst the workmen for about 3 hours, till the police arrived, though he 
refused to talk to them on their demands. Therefore, when they were 
charged with having regtrained and confined the Manager against his will 
and were called upon to show cause why disciplinary action should not be 
taken under Standing Orders 19(b)(5) which describes the misconduct of 
wilful insubordination and disobedience, the only reasonable way of under- 
standing the charge is that the workmen were being charged with insubor- 
dination and disobedience by having wrongfully restrained and confined the 
Manager against his will. Whether wrongful confinement and restraint 
can amount to insubordination and disobedience or not is a different matter 
and it depends on the facts. If the Manager was wrongfully restrained or 
confined with a view to make him concede the demands of the workmen 
relating to the 1476 advance or production bonus or both, it should be the 
height of insubordination. All that is inconsistent with or opposed to 
subordination must be insubordination. Demands can be made by work- 
men on the Manager consistently with their subordinate position. If 
demands are made on the Manager coupled with the threat that he shall 
not be allowed to leave the place where the demands are made till he conceded 
them, it is just a reversal of their respective positions, the workmen 
assuming to themselves a position of authority mail reducing the Manager 
to the position of obedience on pain of being subjected to physical incon- 
venience, and amounts to an act of gross insubordination. Whether such 
facts are proved or not is quite a different matter. At this stage we are 
merely trying to making it clear that, on the facts of this case, it is impos- 
sible to conclude that the lower Tribunal] allowed the management to justify 
the punishment on the footing of a charge which was not levelled against 
the workmen and to defend against which they had no opportunity. 


16. We hold that the appeal of the workmen does not involve any 
substantial question of law and hence that it is not maintainable. 


17. Out of the eleven dismissed workmen one Ramesh Gupta alias 
Rameshwar Gupta did not wish to press his appeal before this Tribunal as 
he was satisfied with the award which gave him compensation and he stated 
that he did not want reinstatement. At the same time the management 
stated that they would not press their appeal in respect of compensation so 
far as the said workman was concerned. These statements were recorded 


by this Tribunal in an order, dated 10th June 1904. 


18. At the time of the hearing of these appeals the learned Counsel 
for the Mills produced a letter received by Messrs. Orr, Dignam & Co., 
Solicitors, 29 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, purporting to have been 
signed by an Advocate called Shri Biswanath Ash, stating that on behalf 
of the workman Sarubani Chatterjee, he moved this Tribunal on 4th 
April 1965 for permission to withdraw the Appeal No. Cal.-40 of 1953 and 
that orders were passed striking out the name of the said workman from 
the appeal. No such application ang order are traced in the records. The 
Counsel for the workmen denied that the said workman withdrew his appeal. 
Hence his appeal was heard on the supposition that it was not withdrawn. 
In the result Appeal No. Cal.-40 of 1953 preferred by the workmen is 
dismissed. No costs. 


19. Next we come to the appeal preferred by the management of the 
Mills. The Company inflicted the punishment of dismissal for misconduct 
falling under Standing Orders 19(b)(3) and 19(b)(5) which 1s authorised by 
Standing Order 19(b). The lower Tribunal found that miscond under 
Standing Order বাতি! and 19(b)(5) was proved and that the Company 
was entitled to take disciplinary action, but that the punishment should be 
revised because, (1) the workmen used no violence, (2) the workmen were 
misguided and (3) the Company contravened the provisions of section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as conciliation proceedings between the 
parties were pending on 29107. September 1950, and that the order of 
dismissal should not stand and then passed the award under appeal directing 
that the workmen shoyld be discharged under section 18 of the Standing 
Orders and that they sBould be paid 7 days’ wages in lieu of notice. Next 
the lower Tribunal procecded to grant the workmen gratuity at the rate of 
17 days’ basic pay for each completed year of service subject to a minimum 
of 3 months’ basic pay. The contention of the Company is that Standing 


290 


THE CAIXUTTA GAZETTH, JULY 12, 1956 


Order 18 does not at all apply to this cas}: where misconduct is accepted by 
the lower Tribunal as proved justifying(disciplinary action and that the 
workmen are not entitled to notice or wages in lieu of notice or gratuity. 
In so far as the contention relates to the applicability of Standing Order 
18, 1 involves a substantia] question of law within the meaning of section 
7(1)(a) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 10950, viz., 
interpretation of the Standing Orders us was held by this Tribunal] in the 
decision reported in 1953, 1] L.L.d., page 822 (Cawnpore Textiles, Ltd.). 
The award of a week’s wages in lieu of notice is based on Standing Order 
18 only. So far as gratuity is concernd it is not based on any Standing 
Order 18 only. So far as gratuity is concerned it is not based on any 
Order. Hence it can only be gratuity on discharge in which case it falls 
under section 7(1)(b)(v) of the said Act. Hence this appeal is main- 
tainable, in so far as it 1s against the award of gratuity. 


20. The word ‘‘discharge’’ used by the lower Tribunal is not used in 
Standing Order 18 at all. The words “dispense with’? are used in it and 
the title is ‘‘termination of employment’”’. Hence the lower Tribunal must 
be taken to have used the word ‘‘discharge’’ to convey the meaning of 
nothing more and nothing less than termination of employment عم‎ a 
measure of punishment. Dismissal also is nothing more and nothing less 
than termination of employment as a measure of punishment. Thus 
termination of the employment of the workmen as a measure of punishment 
hus been approved by the Jower Tribunal. Standing Order 19 is specially 
provided for terminating employment as a punishment for severul items of 
misconduct of workmen enumerated therein. Standing Order 18 provides 
for termination of employment by either party and unrelated to the conduct 
of the opposite side. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the idea 
underlying the framing of two separate Standing Orders, viz., 18 and 19, 
one for punishment and the other for mere termination unrelated to the 
conduct of the workmen must be that Standing Order 19 should be exclu- 
sively resorted to when punishing workmen and that Standing Order 18 
should be resorted to if the employment of workmen is to be terminated 
otherwise than as a measure of punishment. 


21. Standing Order 18 provides for a week’s notice or wages in lieu 
of notice whereas Standing Order 19 does not provide for notice or wages 
in lieu of notice. This is the obvious reason why the lower Tribunal 
substituted Standing Order 18 for Standing Order 19. We can understand 
the justice in giving notice or wages in heu of notice in the case of ter- 
mination of employment otherwise than by way of punishment because 
neither party should be taken by surprise and a party must be compen- 
sated if tuken by surprise and thus inconvenienced. But in the case of 
termination by way of punishment which is brought on the workmen by 
their own misconduct; there can be no principle of law or equity which should 
require notice of termination or wages in lieu of notice. That is why 
Standing Order 19 does not provide for notice or wages in lieu of notice. 
We are clearly of opinion that Standing Order 18 does not apply at all to 
termination of employment of workmen as a measure of punishment for any 
of the items of misconduct described in Standing Order 19(b). 


22. The award of gratuity is not supported by Standing Order 18 or 
any other Standing Order. If the award is of gratuity in the strict sense 
of the expression, viz., a variety of retiral benefit, the lower Tribunal had 
no jurisdiction to award it because there was no reference by the Govern- 
ment of any Industrial Dispute’ about gratuity between the parties nor is it 
an ijncrdental matter. If what the lower ‘Tribunal awarded is mere 
compensation for loss of employment, there can be no justification for 
granting compensation to workmen who are guilty of misconduct and who 
deserved termination of employment as a punishment as was held in the 
decision of this Tribunal reported in 1952 II L.L.J., page 648 (Punjab 
National Bank, Ltd., vs. Their workmen). Compensation for loss of 
einployment can be awarded only if teymination of employment by the 
Company is found to be unjust though reinstatement is found unsuitable 
and not in a case like ours where termination of employment is upheld but 
only under a name (discharge) different from the name used by the 
Company, viz., dismisyal. — 


23. The lower Pribunal wag free to choose a lower form of punishment 
to be inflicted on the workmen than that inflicted by the Company if it 
was so minded and if there be any extenuating circumstances. But to 
direct thag’ompany to pay compensation to the workmen for loss of employ- 
men isgfar from choosing a lesser form of punishment. It is in effect, 
ات‎ the Company for terminating the employment of the workmen, 

hile fading oie the workmen ےت‎ the termination. Even the lower 
form of punishment must make the guilty persons alone suffer or lose and 
must not make an innocent party to the proceedings share the suffering 
or loss caused to the guilty persons in consequence of the punishment, 
গা a Magistrate sentenced af accused person to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000 
and then asked the complginint to pay Rs. 500 out of it to the accused 
to meee the burden of the aecused bearable, it will not differ from the case 
on hand. 


4. Phe Tribunal below relied on 3 circumstances for its award, viz., 
(1) that the workmen did net use violence. (2) that they were misguided, 


| Fanr (۸ 


Part IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


201 


1 
পপ 


Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in flismissing these workmen on 23rd 
September 1950. We are not able ti seo how the fact that the workmen 
did not use personal violence to the Manager is an extenuating circumstance. 
[1 personal violence was used besides depriving the Manager of his lunch 
in time by preventing him from going to his home for 3 hours or more, 
they would have deserved punishment at the hands of a criminal court also. 
The absence of personal violence is no circumstance which cgn minimise 
the gravity of the midstonduct. 11 the workmen were misguided they 
misguided themselves and nobody else misguided them. Hence this also 
18 no extenuating circumstance and does not minimise the gravity of the 
misconduct. 


(3) that the Company contravened i provisions of section 33 of the 


25. We are in agreement with the finding of the lower Tribunal that 
conciliation proceedings were pending between the parties on 2910 
September 1950) and that the Manager contravened the provisions of section 
43 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in ordering dismissal of the workmen 
on 28rd September 1950 without the permission of the conciliation officer. But 
we fail to see how this contravention of section 33 by the Manager on 23rd 
September 1950 could be an extenuating circumstance or could have the 
effect of minimising the gravity of the misconduct of the workmen which 
took place on 19th September 1950. The two are absolutely independent 
of each other and wil] have independent consequences. Thus we find that 
none of the circumstances mentioned by the lower Tribunal is an extenuating 
circumstance which can minimise the gravity of the misconduct, 


26. Hence we hold that the award of gratuity to the workmen ordered 
by the lower Tribunal cannot be supported in any view. We are of opinion 
that nothing Jess than outright dismissal will satisfy the requirements of 
this case. But as the Manager should not have passed the orders of dis- 
missal on 25rd September 1959) the orders should be given effect to only from 
a date on which the orders could have been passed without contravening 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes’ Act, 1947, 


27. Appeal No. Cal.-37 of 1953 preferred by the Company is allowed 
except 58 against Ramesh Gupta alias Rameshwar Gupta. We set aside the 
order of discharge on payment of one week’s wages in lieu of notice and 
gratuity passed by the lower Tribunal on the other 10 workmen, and in its 
place we order that the punishment of dismissal inflicted by the Manager 
shall stand but that it shall take effect from the date on which conciliation 
proceedings found by the lower Tribunal to be pending on 23rd September 
1950 must be deemed to have concluded under section 20 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. No costs. 


|. N. GAN, President. 
19-12-55, 


VY. N. DIKSHITULU, Member. 
19-12-55. 


Registered No. C207 


Oalrutte 


(9211 


THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA 


Results of the M.A. and M.8c. Examinations, 1955 


ORDERS" BY THE VICE-CHANCELLOR AND 
SYNDICATE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to 
assed the M.A. and M.Sc. 


Sonate House, the 4th February 1956 
have 


held in 


Examinations 


ber @955. 
oven 23 a 


16 
18 


ma NO cS 


M.A. EXAMINATION, 1055 
(Arranged in order of merit) 


English 
FIRST CLASS 


Chattopadhyay, Biswanath (Group A), University 


student, Presidency College ¢Untversity Prise- 
man). 

SECOND CLASS 
Sarma, Upondianath (Group 23),  non-collegiate 


ptudent. ۱ ۱ 

Q'Donnell, Annie Louise (Group A), non-collegiate 
student. - 

Sarmay Kamaleswar (Group A), University College 
of Arts. 

0 Krishna (Group A), University College of 


1৮৪. 
Bhattacharyya, Debiprasad (Group <A), non-colle- 
giate student. : 
(Group A), 


Dasgupta, Ansupati 
student. : ۱ 
Mukhopadhyay, Madhusudan {Group A), University 

College of Arts. টার 
Abraham, Shanti (Group B), University College of 
rt 


non-collegiate 


Arta. 

Bhattacharyya, Pranballabh (Group A), University 
College of Arts. ٠ 

আরা Ynigdha (Group A), University College of 


রি ৃ 
Sengu stn, irmalkumar (Group B), non-collegiate 
۲۲: ۱ ۱ 
ناما‎ Daynnidhi (Group A), University College of 
rt 


7 

Bandyopadhyay, Ranendranoath (Group A), non- 
collegiate student. 

Basu, Kalyanchandra (Group A), 
student. 

Maitra, Lila (Group A), non-collegiate student. 

Ghosh, Krishna (Group A), non-collegiate student. 

Ghosh, Maya (Group A), University College of Arts. 
iundyopadhyay, Munojkumar (Group A), non-eolle- 
8186 student. 

Patnaik, Radhacharan (Group B), University Col- 
1809 of Arts. 

Nurul fTussein Haxarika “(Group <A), non-collegiate 
student. 


non-collegiate 


THIRD CLASS 
Ghosh, Bijankrishna (Group A), 


atudent, 

Gopal Krishna (Group A), non-collegiate student. 
Guha, Manju (Group B), non-collegiate student. 
Sengupta, Parimal [8০ A). non-collegiate studont. 


7 Srikumar (Group A), University College of 
rt 


non-collegiate 


নি. 

Abdul Rahman (Group A), non-collegiate student. 

4 National (Group A), Univorsity College of 
rts 


Chakrabarti, Amitabha (Group A), University Col- 
lege of Arta. 


10 


12 
13 


24 


20 


Basu, Indira (Group A), non-collegiate student, 
Bagchi, Purabi (Group A), University College of 


Arts. 
Roy, Somendralal (Group A), University College of 


8. 
Sarkar, Chitra (Group A), University student, 
Presidency College. 
مقر‎ Raicharan (Group A), University College of 
rts. : 
Kundu, Narayanchandra (Group A), University 
College of Arts. 
Sen, Gauri oe B), University Colloge of Arts. 
Ganesh Upadhyay (Group A), non-collegiate student. 
Bhaumik, Bibhutibhushan (Group A), 
giate student. 
Chattopadhyay, Manotosh (Group A), non-collegiate 
student. 
Ghosh, Bimalendu (Group A), non-collegiate student. 
Gupta, Malina (Group A), Ilniversity College of 
t 


non-colle- 


rts. 

Kapildeo Tewary (Group A), non-collogiate student. 

K. Raghupathi Naidu (Group A), non-collegiate 
student. 

Chakrabarti, Sureschandra (Group A), University 
Colleve of Arts. , 

Rasu, Rajatkumar (Group A), University College of 
Art 


8. 
Bhattacharyya, Subodhchandra (Group $B), امھ‎ 
vollegiate student. মরার 
Maitra, Sukumar (Group A), University College of 


Arts. 
Pushja Mehta (Group <A), University College of 


Arts. 
Bhattacharyya, Manikchandra (Group A), 
collegiate student. 


Bhattacharyya, Haridas (Group A), University Col- 


non- 


lege of Arta. 
Mandal, Birendranath (Group A), non-collegiate 
student, 
Sanskrit 


FIRST CLASS 


Bhattacharyya, Jharna (Group D), University Col- 
lege of Arts (University Gold Medalist). 

Bhattacharyya, Pramathanath (Group E), University 
College of Arta (University Silver Modalist). 

Bhattacharyya, Jimutbahan (Group E), Univorsity 
College of Arts. 


SECOND CLASS 


Ray, Ramala (Group D), University College of Arts. 
Son, Usharani (Group D), University College of 


Arts. 

Bhattacharyya, Sankarnath (Group E), non-colle- 
giate student. 

Bandyopadh ay Nandita (Group K), University 
College of Arts. 

Bakéi, Aparajita (Mrs»Ghosh) (Group A), University 
College of Arts. 


© 
এ Saktiprasad (Group I), University College of 
rts. 
Sen, 8۰۵٥ہ‎ কল! A), University College of Arts. 
Bhatpacharyya, Lakshmijiban (Group F), University 
(0879 of Arts. 
Shay ented Gita (Mra. Mukhopadhyay) ریخ‎ 
A), University Cellepe of Arts. 


Bhattacharyya, Binsykrishna 

. min হার “ ۱ 

Sen, Chitrabhanu جحہ67)‎ )(۰ non-collegiate stuaant. 

Mitra, Pritt (Group E), University College of Arta. 

safer Sunanda (Group A), Umiversity Qallegn of 
rta 


(Group A), 21080471127 


Ghosh, Nirmalchandra (Group T), Universtiy غ٣‎ ۴ 
Scottish Church Collegey : ٠ : 


424 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 {Farr TB 
খর বা SSS ane a লস = ৬ 
THIRD CLASS ۱ 60 Ray, Santinath, non-collegiato student. 
1 Sarma, Jogeswar (Group Q), 0 00 student. اتا‎ Chattopadhyay, Suni, non-colleyiate student. 
2 Basu, Anjali (Group A), University College of Arts. Raychaudhun, Sissrchandra, non-collegiate student. 
3 Bhattacharyya, Narahari (Group E), non-collegiate 03 Bhattacharyya, Biswunath, University student, 
student. Scottish Church College. 
Pali U4 যা Pratima, جس کسی‎ লি শা 
¢ . ۰ 4 
FIRST CLASS Je, Jnanranjan, Don-Co ewiate student. 
: 1 Sarkar, Pranati, non-collegiate student, 
ارہ‎ 7 17 (Group A}; University College 67 Chaudhuri, Birendrakumar, non-collegiate student. 
0 রিতা 89 ‘ 68 Gungopadhyay, Nitikusum, University College of 
SECOND CLASS _ Arty» ۱ 
۹ 0 7 -collegiate Ray, Kuladaprasad, University College of Arts. 
দান রিল ৮5৮ Sen, Tapati, II (Regn. No. 15376 of 1947-48), 
2 Chakrabarti, Pratibha (Group B), University College University Collego ol Arts. 
of Arts. 71 Datta, Mayaranm, University College of Arts. 
۸۳۵۵۱۵۱ Mukhopad yay» Arati, University College of Arts. 
SECOND OLASS a বানা oe ly, see سو کی ا‎ 
۱ 5 ৪ allik, ১8188 6195 Colle ts. 
Sk. Alimuddin Ahined (Group A), University College Henguiia, Mrabiun, nomcollegiate atu sear 
of Arts. : 76 Ukil, Tapati, University College ot Arts. 
Persian 77 Das, Rubindranath, non-collegiate student. 
FIRST CLASS Ray, Sasankasekhar, University College ot Arts. 
1 Kulsoom Jalil (Group D), non-collegiate student ; 
(University Gold Medalist) 
2 Uhoudhury Mushtaque Hasan (Group D) 1 non- THIRD CLASS 
তিক ০৮১৫৪ (রম Silver پوس‎ 1 Bhattacharyya, Hirendrakumar, non-collegiate 
French student. 
; 2 Chaudhuri, Kanak, University College of Arts, 
FIRST CLASS 3 Bhattacharsss, AjBnath, University College of Arts. 
Jinepal, Sant Singh (Group A), University College ag, Arati, University College of Arts. 
; ae Ph ৮ he স্ব রি রি 5 Mukhopadhyay, Nepulchandra, University College of 
Bengall Sen, A parna, non-collegiate student. 
SECOND CLASS রি উদ দা 0 ۲۹٦۹ئ‎ student. 
: : 7 yhaudhuri, Nibarkumar, University (188৩ 01 Arte. 
1 تھی‎ চিএ, University student, Presi Ba biG. Umé, Univers uty College ot یر‎ 
; 7 . ngupta, Namita, University College of Arts. 
7 ০৮4 adhyay, Ranajitkumar, University College of 11 Chattopadhyay » Sephali (Mrs. re tine | Uni- 
rr এ اتی‎ /011989 of Arts. 
পে মি রি দলা উনার ‘ab کت‎ Datta, Lakshminarayan, University College of Arts. 
5 Basu, Taracharan, non-collegiate student اس بی‎ ay, hagendranath, নাঃ 2 উদ 
২ টু r دی‎ : udent. ۱ 
6 শা 2 Nripendranarayan, non-collegiate Ghosh, Hasirani, University Oollege of Arts. 
7 'Majum اس‎ 877, non-sollegiata ubndent. 15 উল, تس‎ (Mrs. Sengupta), University Col- 
8 Ghosh, Suktibrata, University College of Arts. een es کے‎ 
9 Basu, Manju, University College of Arts. iswas, Jayantika, University College of Arta. 
10 Busu, Beauty, non-collegiate student. Das, Dhirendranath, non-collegiate studont, 
Datta, Saktipada, University College of Arts. 19 Dee ডি من‎ ee von 
12 রা বা ibeskumar, University College of Goswami, Aso lal, sede যান student. 
1 ? , . . en Inapanl, non-collegiate student, 
13 ননদ ’ আনল সপ مس کا‎ 0 7 22 Bhattacharyya,’ Ramdas, non-collegiate student. 
yea 12 ٠ নর عو‎ (Mrs. Bhadia), University College 
Sen, Sunanda, University College -of Arts. 11 রর Nirmalananda, non-collegiat 
; . ۱ -c 6 student, 
16 পবা Sudhansukumar, non-collegiate 25 Bagchi, Chitra, University College of ne 
Bhattacharyya, Anilchandra, non-collegiate student. mt 0 0 ae ৮ ا‎ পা ھ0‎ 
Bhattacharyya, Panchanan, non-collegiate student. 2 Jana. Henintak الہ‎ ۱ ۱ 
19 Datta, Amarendranath, University College of Arts. ina, Hemuntakumar, non-collegiate student, 
) Sung.’ ا0 اراتا لس مس اک‎ (01 of Arta. 29 Mitra, Amaleskumur, non-collegiate student. 
Sinha, Gopalchandra, non-collegiate student. a Meo ا‎ 25 student. 
22 Bhattacharyya, Arati, University College of Arts. 82 Datt a an 7 ee es foo 18000, 
Sengupta Natendranaih non-collegiate student দল دوجو‎ meee 
বিল Tandy. বক of ৪৮ : 33 Biswas, Bijaymadhab, non-collegiato student. 
95 Sengupta, Gita, non-co oats student. _ 55 ا كت‎ টি eh ae student. 
26 Raychaudhuri, Sipra, University শট of Arts. 36 Chaydburi, Gita, 11 
a اس‎ শি کی‎ 77 College aii ا‎ 87 Mohammad 0۰: سا مت‎ student. 
ee a yay, nubaran, niversity ene 9 = লতা الاو‎ ০47 কন ۹ھ‎ student. 
Z এ : ٠ : asn, Sandhya, University College of Arta. 
29, Mulhopaahray, Pushpite, University College of Arts. 4). Ghai, Badhonananda, পবন এন 
31 Sinharay, Haridas, non-collegiate student. 42 M, ٠ جو مسا ری‎ College of. Arts. 
32 Ghosh, Nihar, non-collegiate student 43 ar nena رہ‎ ee non-coll atudent. 
Ghoshal, Sumita, University College of Arts. 44 Mukho aT in iris University College of Arts. 
34 Gupta, Sudhansusekhar, non-collegiate student 4 Mukhopadhyay, Surapati, non-collogiate student. 
SR Wak. وو عو ای ہیں رہ‎ ٠ 45 Bharati, Srimankrishna, non-collegiate student. 
36 Sen, Qkha Uniecraity College of Arts pain, Salven. son শর 
37 ই ہیوک‎ Dipa লি re student ঠা ia ee ہد ممیت ہیس سی سیت‎ 
: رج‎ : 2, ‘ e i 4 
a fie alec ملا‎ 5 iad ae ساس‎ Mitra, Suryyanarayan, non-collegiate student, 
Mukhopadh রর ae টান lata লা 49 Shaikh Abdul Kader, non-collegiate student. 
Presidency College. ঃ ٢ے‎ ’ 50 "۷" গত ۱ non-collegiate student. 
Pal, Ramprasad, non-collegiate student. 52 Pal, Saghanchandra 7 student 
42 Chakraharti, Rakhalchandra, non-collegiate student. Pal. Sambhunath. non-colleci a ০ 
De, Adhirkumar, University Coll f Art ও li 1 مس ما وا وا وی‎ 73১০ 
4311 পলি দি 02 Aste, -7 54 Chakrabarti, Satrughna, non-collegiate student. 
45 Lahiri. Ka tech dra y Lone 1 ol و‎ জা Nod Dandapat, Amulyaratan, University College of Arts. 
و سار رح تا‎ পরী او ا‎ er Malem 
. টু ; ۰ : an ۸ء٤8‎ 4 
Awami, Lila (Mrs. “Chaudhuri), non-collogiate = colloginta “student. 0 0 
nt, 10۷۸۸۰۱ Nandagopal, non-colleginte studont. 
48 না سای سد‎ তে সু 59 Bhattacharyya, Santi, non-colleginte oe 
Stok Cais দে gg, দ্র eet 
% 3 : " . : > 40101000 171 ۔‎ -. 
৮] যা Jniversity studdlit, Presi- : 0 et جج‎ pee : = می پوت‎ 
060 : asu, Susmita ra. Sanyal), non-collegiato student. 
7 ا کات 7 اش‎ of saat Chattopadhyay, Sukamar, non-collegiate student. 
1B সব চা non-co wali student. 64 Bhattacharyya, Phanibhushan, non-collegiate student. 
Sunyal ছাপ ‘ee as کت‎ রি کت سو تس‎ ae 
Sanyal, রি Pr! ‘ anna, Katneswar, non-collegiate ۸080 
» টু ور‎ হল ae oe 2 رن تی‎ পানি stolons, 
: a ; : ۱ as, Sudha, non-collegiate ھ٤‎ 
58 Bhattacharyya, Baruna, University student, Presi- Kar, Rawkrishna, nati aallopiate atudent. 


; dency College. 
Chattaraj, Sanatkumar, non-collegiate student. 


Mitra, Sankarprasad, ig, arse atudent, 
Sepgupta, Syamalranjan, Univorsity College of Arts. 


Parr 1B] THM CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 426 


eng,‏ عم یھر পপ পম উহ সপ Ce UT EET pi iD‏ - نے পপ সাপ ee et ee eee‏ ےی আশ লি এ eee আসি শি পপ সত সস‏ ہد 
এ শপ বদন সস‏ ےے- تک ریہ تد ہس উস সপ সপ সী oF 4 SE পপ i হত‏ | سے স্মার্ট স্হান Sens at‏ 


BS سر‎ 


QO 0৮৯ ৩৩ 


سم ৩০‏ مو ہی ৩১‏ 


Mordern Indian Language—Hindi 
SECOND CLASS 


Ram Neti Vishwakarma, University College of Arts, 
Mitra, Saraswati (Mrs. Sarkar), University College 
of Arts. 

Hiralal Maheswari, non-collegiate student. 

Vimla Devi, University College of Arts. 

Kumar Agarwalla, University College of‏ کر" 

rts. 
Ramanand Tiwari, non-collogiate student. 


THIRD CLASS 


Hardeo Tiwari, University জন? of Arta. 


Ramnath পালা University Colloge of Arts. 


Sawalia Behari Sharan, non-collegiate student. 
Kunti Devi, University Cullege of Arts. 

Kaushal Kishor Pandeyu, University College of Arts. 
Shew Bhagwan Goenka, non-collegiate student. 


Modern indian Language—Urdu 
FIRST CLASS 
Md. Khalil Abbas Siddiqui, non-codleginte student 
(University Gold Medalist), 
SECOND CLASS 
Iqbal Jehan Begum, non-collegiate student, 
Md. Akhtar Husain, non-collegiate student. 
Modern indian Language—Urlya 
SECOND CLASS 
Nayak, Ketaki, non-collegiate student. 
Das, Nareschandra, non-collegiate student. 
Comparative Philology 
FIRST CLASS 


Biswas, Sukumar (Group A), non-colleginte student 
(University Gold Medalist). 


Philosophy 
FIRST CLASS 
Mukhopadhyuy, sar University College of Arts 
(University Gold Medalist). | 
Bhattacharyya, Bharati, University College of Arts 
(University Silver Medalist). 
Gupta, Namita, non-collegiate student. 


SECOND CLASS 
Ghosh, Dipali, University College of Arts. 


০০-২ ০১ a ০০ NS سم‎ 


Ghatak, Jibankumar, University Colluge of Arts. 

Bandyopadhyay, Aswinikumar, non-colleyiate 
student, 

Sil, Parbatikumari, University College of Arts. 

Chattopadhyay, Lina, University College of Arts. 

Gangopadhyay, Kshama, non-collegiate student. 

Chaudhuri, Sadhankumar, non-collegiate student. 

Gauri, University student, Scottish Church‏ ا 

eye. 

sr ee Madhuri (Mrs. Chaudhuri), non-collegiate 
student. 

Guha, Bharati, University College of Arta. 

De, Rani non-collegiate student. 

Maitra, Naresnath, non-collegiate student. 

Chattopadhyay, Dipti, University College of Arta. 


History 
FIRST CLASS 


Sengupta, Nitiskumar, University student, Presi- 
any College (University Gold Medalist), 

Chaudburi, Binaybhushan, রিস্ক College of Arts 
(University Silver Medalist). 


SECOND CLASS 


Sengupta, Kalyankumar, University student, Presi- 
dency College. 

Chattopadhyay, Pratimia, University student, Presi- 
dency ear 

Deb, Reba, University student, Presidency College. 

Gupta, ০587 non-colleginte student, . 

Gupta, Dhireschandra, University student, Presi- 
ency ah is 

De, Gopiballabh, University College of Arts. 

Chaudhuri, Ira, University College of Arts. 

Das, Binodsankar, University student, Presidency 


ege. 
ا کا‎ Jyotiprasad, University College of 


rts. 

Chakrabarti, Amita, non-collegiate student. 

De, Bhupatibhushan, University College of Arts. 

Sen, Jaharlal, University College of Arts. 

Mitra, Hithika, University College of Arts. 

a Shyam Pandey, University student, Presidency 
ollege. 

টি Prasad, University student, Presidency Col- 
98. 

Basu, Sankarprasad, University College of Arts. 

Datta, Amalkumar, University College of Arts. 

রদ: Prabhuram, University student, Presidency 
ollege. 


2 Bagchi, Parbati, University Colloge of Arts. 19 Datta, Arati, University College of Arts. 
8 Sarkar, Mira, University College of Arts. 20 Ghosh, Jayanti, non-collegiate student. 
4 Bhattacharyya, Karuna, University College of Arta. Ray, Basudeb, University student, Presidency Col- 
6 Ghosh, BHarati, University College of Arts. lege. 
6 Chandra, Uma, University College of Arts. 22 Kar, Purnendukumar, University College of Arts. 
7 Mitra, Anima, University College of Arts. 23 Ray, Hirankomar, Universit College of Arts. 
Sen, Sharna, niversity student, Presidency College. 24 27 Rarindranath, University College of 
8. 


Y Sen, Pratiina, University College of Arts. 


10 Das, Pijushkanti, University College of Arts. 25 Sen, Anjali, University College of Arts. 


11 Nath, Renu, University College of Arts. 26 Bandyopadhyay, Sunilkumar, University Collego of 
12 Chakrabarti, Krishnakamal, University College of Arts. 

Arts. 27 Chakrabarti, Mrinalkanti, University College of 
13 Guha, Samarendra, University College of Arts. Arts. : ۱ . 
14 Bandyopadhyay, Ramchundra, non-collogiate student. 28 Basu, Prabirkumar, University College of Arts. 
15 Chattopadhyay, Narayanchandra, —non-collegiate Ghosh, Sujata, University College of Arts. 


student. 30 Dasgupta, Jharna, non-collegiate student. 
16 Lahiri, Anadikumar, University College of Arts. Kundu, Panchugopal, University College of Arta. 


17 Chaudhuri, Indrahati, University exe of Arts. 32 Chakrabarti, Asokkumar, University College of Arts, 
18 Bandyopadhyay, Reba (Mrs. Mukhopadhyny), Uni- 33° Kar, Radhagobinds, non-collegiate student. 
versity College of Arts. 34 Ray Snigdha, University College of Arts. 
19 Pal, Dipa, University College of Arts. 35 Bokter Hossain, University College of Arts. 
20 Saha, Satyendranurayan, Univerkity College of Arts. 46 Chaudhuri, Tinkari, University College of Arta. 
21 Mitra, Gaurangaprasad, University College of Arts. Maulik, Parimalchandra, non-collegiate student. 
Som, اس‎ University College of Arts. : Mukhopadhyay, Namita, University College of Arts. 
23 Bhattacharyya, Sobha, University College of Arts. 0 Basu, Sunilkumar, University College of Arts. 
24 Bandyopadhyay, Amitabha, niversity student, 40 Chakrabarti, Harinath, non-collegiate student. 
Scotush Church College. Sen, Gita, non-collegiate student. 
25 Basu, Malina, University College of Arts. 42 Sen, Purabi, non-co legiate کے‎ 
Bhakta, Ranajitkumar, University College of Arta. 43 Ghosh, Biswanath, University Collego of Arta. 
27 “Bhattacharyya, Pratima, University College of Arts. 44 Chakrabarti, Rasankasekhar, non-collegiate student. 
Chattopadhyay, Praphullakumar, niversity College Ghosh, Sarojkusum, University College of Arts. 
of Arts. 46 Maitra, Dipali, University College of Arts. 
29 Sengupta, Bandana, University College of Arts, 47 Datta, Ajitkumar, University College of Arta. 
30 Chakrabarti, Arati, University College of Arta. 48 Tandyopadhyay, Pulinbihari, University College of 
81 Basu, Manjusri ضا‎ Sarkar), University student, Arts. 7 ; | 
Presidency College. ‘ 49 Chaudhuri, Khagendrabijay, non-collegiate student. 
32 7 Krisbnapriti, University College of Arta. 50 Gangopadhyay, Sudhansu, University College of Arts. 
93 Basu, Tapeswar, University College of Arts, ৬ 
Bhadra, Mina, 11101 College of Arts. ৮ THIRD CLASS 
35 Das, Rama, University College of Arts. 1 Mukhopadhyay, Adityajyoti, non-colleginte student. 
ٹلا‎ Chaudhtti, Subalchandra, non-collegmte student. 2 Mandal, Kshudiram, University College of Arts. 
3 Ghosh, Jogamaya, non-collegiate student. 
THIRD CLASS 4 Chaudhuri, Balsilal, non-collegiate student. 
1 Chaudhuri, Pankajkumar, non-collegiate student. 6 Guhabiswaa, Sudhirkumar, non-cullegiate student. 
2 Das, Chhabi, University College of Arts. 01177) Gitarani, non-collegiate student, 
3 Das, Mira (Mrs. Basu), University College of Arta. 7 Ray, Gayatri, University College pf Arts. 
Karan, Rabindranath, nono سا‎ student. Neu, Sagarika, University College of Arts. 
ھ۶" کس‎ "٦ Co so of aes ae 17 গান ই non-collegiate student 
annigrahi, Chundrabhushan, non-collegiate student. Makgabarti, Sachipati, Universi ; 
i ro dar, Relarani, , non-colleziate رسک‎ 27 7ٰ লি » Sachipati, University student, City Col- 
arkar, Hirendranarayan, nom-collegiate student. Datta, Kolinarayan, ivers; سے‎ 
9 De, Sandhya, University College of Arta. 1% Das, Pritikana, aves cee [নি 
10 Pal, Jharna, University College of Arts, 1 Ghosh, Kalyankumar, non-collegiate student 
11 Ghowh, Santi, University College of Arts. 14 Gangopadhyay, Sabita, University Colloge of Arta. 


426 


ভি 
Te পরে 


16 


17 
18 
19 
১) 


22 


oS ws = 


১ ০0১২ ০১ তা ৯ 


10 


- co Ww = 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 
লিলি rn sy 


Ghoshal, Jagadischandra, University College of Arta. 

Mandal, Bhupalprasad, non-collegiate student. 

Jana, Prabhatkusum, University College gf Arts. 

Do, Satyaprasanna, non-collegiate student. 

Mukhopadhyay, Jugnath, non-collegiate student. 

Busu, Manisha, University College of Arts. 

Das, Asutosh, non-collegiate student. 

Das, Vhanaballabh, non-ollegiate student. 

Lahiri, Santoshkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Adhikari, Arindam, University student, Presidency 
College. ۱ 

Ghosh, Saraswati, University College of Arts. 

Jalua, Kesabchandra, non-collegiate student. 

Thomas, P. C., non-collegiate stndent. 

Chakrabarti, Bimalkanti, non-colloginte student. 

Guptu, Nilima, non-collegiate student. 

Sengupta, Annapurna, non-collegiate student. 

Varghese, K. M., non-collegiate student. 

Cahill, Michael, non-collegiate student. 

Chakrabarti, Kalyankumar, University College of 
Arts. 

Abdus Salam, University College of Arts. 

Param Hans Mishra, non-collegiate student. 

Sen, Sureswar, University College of Arta. 

Pal, Jayasri, non-collegiate student. 

Chattopadhyay, Sandhya, University College of Arts. 

Pa), Rama, University College of Arts. 

Misra, Maoheswar, University College of Arts. 

Mukhopadhvay, Subrata, University Oollege of Arts. 

Sarkar, Jharna, University College of ۸۶۰۰ 

Datta, Mamata, University College of Arts. 

Ghosh, Chhaya (Mrs. Guha), non-collegiate student. 

রিভার Gaurisankar, University College of 

rts. 5 

Khan, Saurindrakumar, non-collegiate student. 

Maulik, Rebarani, non-collegiate student. 

Yogambigai Kanakasabuai, non-collegiate student. 


Ancient Indian History and Culture ~~ 


FIRST CLASS 


Chakrabarti, Adhirkumar, University College of 
Arts (University Prizeman). 


SECOND CLASS 


Mukhopadhyay, Anathnath, University College of 


5. 
Bhattacharyya, Sanatkumar, University student, 
Presidency College. 
Mukhopadhyay, Aparna (Mrs. Bandyopadhyay), non- 
collegiate student, ২. 
Bhaduri, Sunanda, University College of Arts. 
Bhattacharyya, Priti, University College of Arts. 
Ruy, Arati, University College‘of Arts. 
Bhattacharyya, Tiipti, University College of Arts. 
Sanyal, Swadhinkumar, University CoHege of Arts. 
Do, Mira, University College of Arts. 


Chaudhuri, Rathindramohan, University College of 


Arts. 
Pal, Mrinulkanti, University College of Arts. 
Pal, Mullukchandra, non-collegiate student. 
Basu, Gita, University College of Arts. 
Sanyal, Taraknath, University College of Arts. 


THIRD CLASS 


Haldar, Renuka, University Collego of Arts. 
Pramanik, Sarojranjan, University College of Arts. 
Basu Sahita, non-collegiate student. 

Das, Jadupati, University College of Arts. 

Sinha, Satyacharan, non-collegiate student. 
Raychaudhuri, Pratima, University College of Arts. 
Bhattacharyya, Gauri, University College of Arts. 
Sengupta, Amita, University College of Arts. 
Sengupta, Lakshmanchandra, non-collegiate student. 
Randyopadhyay, Jagannath, non-collegiate student. 
Sudershan Kapur, niversity Cyllege of Arts. 
Guha, Manika, University College of Arts. 

Ray, Basanti, University College of Arts. 

Gupta, Debidas, non-collegiate student. 

Batpati, Raghunath, non-collegiate student. 

Mitra, Gargi, non-collegiate student. 

Rudra, Rama, non-colleyiate student. 

Ghosh, Namita, non-collegiate student, 

Nag, Triptikana, University College of Arta. 

Thee Aswinikumar, non-collegiate student. 
Mukhopadhyay, Paritosh, non-collegiate student. 
Mallikehaudhuri, Nirmalkanti, non-collegiate student. 
Manna, Bhabanisankar, University College of Arps. 


istamio History and Culture 


FIRST CLASS 


Mohamed Quamruddin (Group E), University Col- 
lege of Arts (University Gold Medalist). 


SECOND CLASS 


“Muslim (Group Fd, University College‏ سا وی 
ot Arts, . is সু‏ 
Purnima (Group D), University,.College of‏ 6 مو 
rts.‏ 
Mukhopadhyay, Arunkumar (Group D)y non-colle-‏ 
giate student.‏ 
Karchaudhun, Amalendubikas‏ 


(Group D), ‘nomeol- 
legiate eatudent. 


۱ 1 


2 


[larr 1B 


THIRD CLASS 
me onal Hoque (Group 1D), University College of 


1৮৪, 
0ہ‎ Naficy (Group EK), University College of 
5. 
۱ 0٥٦08۰ 
FIRST CLASS 


Sengupta, Jatikumar, University students, Presi- 
dency over (University Gold Medalist). 

Chakrabarti, Sukhamay, University student, Presi- 
dency College (University silver Medalist). 

Ray, Tarasankar, University College of Arts, 


SECOND CLASS 
pan Nabendu, University student, Cresidenery Col- 


ege. 
Banwari Lal Hansaria, University College of Arts. 
Sen, Amitabha, University College of Arts. 
Mitra, Asisikumar, University (০119 of Arts. 
Majumdar, Pinakiranjan, University College of Arta. 
Ghosh, Rathindrakumar, University College of Arts. 
Gu te Kanenkmuar, University student, Presidency 
ollege. 
Dasgupta, Kallol, University College of Arts. 
Ray, Subrata, University College of Arts. 
Sen, Suhaschandra, non-colleyiate student. 
Dasgupta, Samir University College of Arts. 
সি Sudhinkumar, University College of 
r 


৪, 
Mandal, Kartikchandra, University College of Arts. 
Mukhopadhyay, Binayendunarayan, University Col- 

lege of Arts. 
Guharay, Debkumar, University Colleze of Arts. 
Chattopadhyay, Pratulchandra, non-collegiate student. 
Ray, Ganendranarayan, University students Scottish 
Church College. 
Barua, Praphullagobinda, University student, Presi- 
dency lege. 
Lahiri, Ranajitkumar, non-collegiate student. 
Shalini. Deva Rav Kundajyi, University College of 


Arts. 
Acharyya, Saktipada, non-collegiate student. 
বি hanigopal, non-collegiate student. 
Sengupta, Bimalendu, non-collegiate student. 
gay ৬ Haranath, University College of 
8 


Lahiri, Ranajitkanta, University College of Arte. 
Bhattacharyya, Basana, University College of Arts. 
Acharyya, ٠ amaprasad, University College of Arts. 
Sen, Ena, University College of Arts. 
Dhaneshwar Jha, University College of Arts. 
Chakrabarti, Asokkumar, University student, Presi- 
dency College. 
Basuray, বশ non-collegiate student. 
Sanyal, Nisithkamal, University College of Arts. 
এয ا‎ he Sudhir, non-collegiate student. 
Ray, Seba, University College of Arts, 
Chakrabarti, Dalimkumar, non-colleginte student. 
Ghosh, Sadhana, University College of Arts. 
Haldar, Niranjankumar, University College of Arts. 


THIRD CLASS 


Das, Narayandas, non-collegiate student. 
Das, Prantoshranjan. University College of Arts. 
Mukhopadhyay, Sanatkuniar, non-collegiate student. 
Bijai Bahadur Singh, non-colleginte student. 
Sarkar, Dilpkumar, University College of Arts. 
Majumdar, Manjari, University College of Arts. 
Chanda, Chittaranjan, non-collegiate 707۰ء‎ 
Lahiri, Saurendranath, University College of Arta. 
Chattopadhyay, Susilkumar, non-collesiate studont. 
Gangopadhyay, Rathindranath, University College 
of Arts. how 
Sen, Sikha, University College of Arts. 
Benimadhab Tiwari, non-collegiate student. 


Bandyopadhyay, Somendrakumar, nen-collegiate 
student, 

Bhattacharyya, Barinérakumar, University College 
of Arts. 


Raychaudhuri, Ranabir, University College of Arts 
Ganga Ram Sharma, non-collegiate student. 
Mahanta, Narendranath, non-colleginte student. 
سرن‎ 81081121708) University College of Arts. 
Pal, Kanailal University College of Arts. 
Raychaudhuri, ‘Sukomal, University College of Arta. 
Mukhopadhyay, Nirmalchanira, non-tollegiate 
student. 
০ Chhaya (Mrs. Datta), University College of 
a 


8. 
Bhattacharyya, Haridas, non-collegiate student. 
Mukhopadhyay, Phanindranath, non-collegiate 
student. 
Nath, 
Arts. 
Bandyopadhyay, Kamales, non-tolleriate student. 
Datta, Subhendusekhar, University College of Arts. 
Chattopadhyay, Amulyaratan, non-colleginte student. 


Political Science 
SECOND CLASS 


Lakshmanchandra, University College of 


] এ sta, Jyotirindra, University 0011000 of Arts. 


ay, Jayantakumar, University College of Arts. 


3, Brajmohan Agrawal, University College of Arts, 


parr IB] 
ہے‎ সু 


= ws Wr 


Bandyopadhyay, Anathnath, non-tollegiate student. 

Bhattacharyya, Sisirkanti, University College of 
Arts. 

Ghosh, Balaikrishna, non-collegiate student. 

Ghosh, Birendranath, non-collegiate student. 

Guha, Anilranjan, University (০115 e of Arts. 

Kanhaya Lal Kochar, University College of Arts. 

Gupta, Ajyaykumar, University College of Arts. 

Ghosh, Saralkumar, University College of Arts. 

Bandyopadhyay, Paritosh, University College of 


Arts. ۱ 
Ray, Sipra, University College of Arts. 
Basu, Amalkumar, University College of Arts. 
Ghosh, Saileschandra, non-collegiate student. 
Roop Krishna Anand, University Colloge of Arts. 
Datta, Biswanath, University College of Arts. 
Sarkar, Dilipkumar, University College of Arta. 
Narayanswami Viswanathan, non-collegiate student. 
Basu, Asimkumar, non-collegiate student. 
Amirudh Choube, University College of:Arts. 
Mohammad Sadique, University College of Arts. 
Datta, Nakshnatrabhushan, non-collegiate student. 
Pal, Sibeschandra, University College of Arts. 
Ghosh, Hani, Wniversity College of Arts. 
Haldar, Sankarprasad, University Colloge of Arts. 
Chandra Sekhar Jha, non-collegiate atudent. 


‘ Saren, 1 University College of Arts. 


2০৮ antoshkuinar, University College 
of Arts. 

M. M. Pareed Pillay, University College of Arts. 
Saha, Chittaranjan, University College of Arts. 
Dhar, Samarendramohan, University College of Arts. 
Guha, Benutosh, non-collegiate student. 


Raychaudhuri, Paritoshkumar, University College of 


Arts. 
Bhaduri, Susilchandra, non-collegiato student. 
De, Susilkumar, non-collegiate student. 
Chattopadhyay, Dilipkanti, non-collegiate student. 
Sengupta, Timirharan, University College of Arts. 
Khaund, Manikchandra, University College of Arts. 
Hui, Tapati, University College of Arts. 


THIRD CLASS 


Bhattacharyya, Kedarnath, non-collegiate student. 

Ghosh, Rabindramohan, University College of Arts. 

Datta, Bibha, University College of Arts. 

Manorama Anand, University College of Arts. 

Samanta, Arati, University College of Arta. 

Ghosh, Amulendu, non-collegiate student. 

Konar, Narayanchandra, University Colloge of Arta. 

Mitra, Manaskumar, University College of Arts. 

Bandyopadhyay, کی‎ laa non-collegiate student. 

Bandyopadhyay, rakaschandra, non-collegiate 
student. 

Samajpati, Kartikchandra, non-collegiate student. 

Bera, Sasadhar, non-collegiate student. 

Jogda Nand Pandey. University College of Arts. 

Sarkar, Amalondn, non-collegiate student, 

Bhattacharyya, Haripada, non-collegiate student. 

Jana, Sipra, University College of Arts. 

Sengupta. Anima, University College of Arts. 

এ وم ان‎ Hemangachandra, University College 
of Arts. 

Ray. Prasantakumar, non-collegiate student. 

Guha, Malabika, University College of Arts. 

Upadhyay Mihirkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Subhnsh Chandra Sapra, non-collegiate student. 

Bhaumik, Kalipada, University College of Arta. 

Gangopadhyay, Sibamay, University College of Arts. 

Smha. Nandnadulal, non-collegiate student. 

Sen, Chhava, University College of Arts. 

1 Kniyani, University College of 

rt 


8۰ 

Majumdar, ৮7 University College of Arts. 

টা Milly, University Colloge of Arts. 

De, Bhupendrakumar, University College of Arts. 

Md ۲١1:٠۸ Aji, University College of Arts. 

Datta, Prabhanjan, University College of Arts. 

Sen, Dipti, University College of Arts. 

দি i, Ramenduhikas, University College of 
rts. 

Bandyopadhyay, Bagalaprasanna, University College 


or Arts. 
Kanjilal, Nilima (Mrs.- Chattopadhyay), University 
College of Arts. 
Ghosh, Sisirkumar University College of Arts, 
Bandyopadhyay, Gauri, University College of Arts. 
Jas, Bisweswar, non-collegiate student.  ° 
Hari Prasad Giri, University College of Arts. 
Nog, 6)۰ non-cpllegiate. student. 
Sengupta, Rama, non-collegiate student. 
Bandyopadhyay, 0 non-collegiate student. 
শা Kumar Agarwal, University student, City 
01106. 


Commerce 
SECOND CLASS 
Phul Chand, University student, City College. 
Ghosh, Pratipkumar, University College of Com- 


merce, ۱ : 
Satvendra Prasanna Ainha Dangi, Univorsity College 
of Commerce. 
Chakraharii, Asokkumar, 
Commerce, 


University College - of 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


43 


45 


427 


_— 
আচ Ur রি UE সা, এজি بعد‎ oe 


rene 


Guhathakurta, Aimalendu, University College of 
Commerce. 

B. Ramprasad, University College of Commerce, 

Brahmachhr, Manindranath, niversity College of 
Commerce. 


Basu, Samarendranath, University Collega of Com- 
merce. 

Basu, Haranidhi, non-collegiate student. 

K. Achutha Menon, University College of Commerce. 

Sen, Arunkumar University College of Commerce. 

Satya Narain Srivastava, University College of 

08. ۱ ۱ 

Chakrabarti, Amritalal, University College of Com- 
merce, ! 

Basu, Chittaranjan, Umiversity College of Commerce. 

Datta, Abhyit, non-collegiate student. 

Dattagupta, Jayanta, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Chaudhuri, 
Commerce. 

Maulik, Sarojkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Bandyopadhyay, Kumalchandra, University student, 
City College. : 

Basu, Suhasthandra, University student, City Col- 


Ranajitkumar, University College of 


ات 
Raychaudhuri, Ajaykumar, University College of‏ 
Commerce.‏ 
Mukhopadhyay, Saktiranjan, non-collegiate student.‏ 
Majumdar, Taraknath, University College of Com-‏ 


merce, 

Mukhopadhyay, Sibapada, University College of 
Commerce, 5 
Gangopadhyay, Lalmohan, University College of 
Commerce. 


Ghosh, Ranendranath, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Jagadish Narayan Sharma, 
۰ھ‎ 

Ray, Malatibhushan, non-colleginte student. 

Sarkar, Chittaranjan, non-collegiate student. 

Bhaumik, Jyotiprasad, non-collegiate student. 

Shiva Shankar Chowdhury, University College of 
Commerce. 

Chattopadhyay, Kumares, non-collegiate student. 

Ghosh, Ginjakanta, non-collegiate student, 

Chakrabarti, Manindrachandia, University College 
of Commerce. 

Sarkar, Kalyankumar, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Ray, Paresnath, University College of Commerce. 

Chakrabarti, Debkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Chakrabarti, Umapada, University College of Com- 
merce, 

Chaudhuri, Phanindranath, University College of 
Commerce. 

Bandyopadhyay, Samir, University College of Com- 

merce. 


De, Banamali, non-collegiate student. 
Mukhopadhyay, Sambhusampad, University College 
of Commerce. 


University Collego of 


Biroswarprasad, non-collegiate‏ ال نام میں 
student.‏ 
Bhaumik, Nareschandra, University College of‏ 
Commerce,‏ 


Bhattacharyya, Jagadindunarayan, University Col- 

“ lege of Commerce. 

Shyam Sundar Dujari, non-collegiate student. 

Pramanik, Madhusudan, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Datta, Santinaravan, non-collegiate student. 

Maiumdar, Sachindranath, University Colleze of 
Commerce. 

Mukhopadhyay, Ramnarayan, non-collaglate student. 

Chiranjib Jha, University College of Commerce. 

Chakrabarti, Kesabranjan, University College of 
Commoree. 

Basu, Kumares, non-collegiate student. 

Das, Asitranjan, non-collegiate student. 

Ram Karan Tiwari, University student, City Col- 
89. 

Basu, Arnab, University College of Commerce. 

Chattopadhyay, Bibekananda, University College of 
Commerce. 

Mandal, Lakshminarayan, 
Commerce, 

Ray, Tarapada, University College of Commerce. 

Chakrabarti, Satyacharan, University College of 
Commerce. 

Dag, Santiranjan, University College of Commerce. 

Detthabildar, Anilchandra, University Oollege of 
Commerce. 

Bhattacharyya, Manahendra, non-collegiate student. 

Datta, Dipakkumar, University College of Commeroe. 

Girdharilal Sanganeria, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Mukhopadhyay, Saradindu, 
Commerce. ۰ 

Brahmachari, Dwijendralal, (9 

Datta, Sukumar, Uyiversity College of Commerce. 

Bandyopadhyay, Kalidas, University College of Com- 


University College of 


University College of 


merce. 
Chaudhuri, Parimalchandra, University College of 
: یو‎ 0007 ۱ 

ahiri, ۸70۸416110, University College of Commerce, 
9০) Sudbansukumar, non-callegiate student, 


73 
74 


76 


78 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JOLY 12, 1996 


Se‏ ہہ ہس 
সস আত‏ 


Chel, Prahladchandra, non-collegiate student. 

Bandyopadhyay, Jibankrishna, University College of 
Commerce. 

Datta, Hirendranath, 
merce. 

Bardhan, Amitnkumar, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Das, Ratankumar, University College of Commerce. 

Chattopadhyay, Sasankasekhar, University College of 
Commerce. 


University College of Com- 


THIRD CLASS 


Barpujari, Bhupendranath, non-collegiate student. 

Durga Sahaya, non-collegiate student. 

Goswaini, amalakanta, non-collegiate student. 

Biswas, Sanatkumar, University College of Commerce. 

Ghosh, Debdas, non-collegiate student. 

Mukhopadhyay, Guruprasad, University 
City College. ۱ 

Thakur Prasad Singh, University College of Com- 


student, 


merce, ۱ ۱ ۱ 
Ghatak, Rathindrakumar, University student, City 


ollege. 
Ratanial Pareek, University College of Commerce, 
Chakrabarti, Nareskumar, non-collegiate student. 
Ghosh, Chittaranjan, non-collegiate student. 
Ray, Binaybhushan, University College of Commerce. 
Chattopadhyay, Amitabha, University College of 
Commerce. 
Acharyya, Himansu, 
merce. 
Sen, Niranjan, University student, City College. 
Ghosh, দশা non-collegiate student. 
Bhaumik, Kanailal, University College 
merce. 
Sen, Asokranjan, University College of Commerce. 
Bandyopadhyay, Saibalkanti, University student, 
یئ‎ College. ۱ ۱ 
K. Madhava Warrier, University Ootlege of Com- 


University College of Com- 


of Com- 


merce. 

Mukhopadhyay, Umaprasanna, non-collegiate student. 

Aich, Bibhutibhushan, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Bandyopadhyny, Krishnadas, University College of 
Commerce. 

Dassarma, Narayanchandra, non-collegiate student. 

Hajra, Flridaynath, University College of Commerce. 

Kundu, Jugalkrishna, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Bandyopadhyay, 
Commerce. : 

Guha, Chunilal, non-collegiate student. 

Sadhu, Janendranath, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Bandyopadhyay, Ajitkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Gangopadhvay, Binaykamal, University College of 
Commerce. 

Khasnabis, Pritipurna, University College of Com- 


merce. 

Sarkar, Abadhut, University College of Commerce. 
Sinha, Mrityunjay, University College of Commerce. 
Sinha, Pae *atinath, non-collegiate student. 


Balaidas, University College of 


Bhattacharyy., Santoshkumar, non-collegiate 
student. 

Biswas, Samirkumar, University College of Com- 
merce. 


Das, Hridayranjan, non-collegiate student. 

Nath, Adinath, non-collegiate student. 

Saharay, Harekrishna, non-collegiate student. 

Lakshman Prasad, non-collegiate student. 

Misra, Rajendranath, non-collegiate student. 

Gangadas Vyas, University Co one of Commerce. 

Basu, Biswanath, University College of Commerce, 

Pal, Madanmohan, University College of Commerce. 

Datta, Chittaranjan, non-collegiate student. 

Datta, Udaysankur, University College of Commérce. 

Mitra, Asishkumar, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Ghosh, Sauransumohan, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Krishan Chander Sharma, 
Commerce. 

Md. Atiullah, University College of Commerce. 

Ramchandra Venkitasubramanyan, University Col- 
lege of Commerce. 

Deb, Pijushkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Das, Sudhamay, non-collegiate student. 

Kamla Kant Pande, non-collegiate student. 

Kar. Baniprasad, University College of Commerce. 

Mukhopadhyay, Panchanan, non-collegiate student. 

Bandyopadhyay, Paresnath, University College of 
Commerce. 


University College of 


‘Mathew. P. M., University College of Commerce. 


Bhattacharyya, Ranajitknmar, University Oollege of 
Commerce. 

Dasgupta. Ralendrasankar, non-collegiate student. 

Datta, Kanailal. University College of Commerce. 

Basumallik, Debkumar, University College of Com- 
merre, 

Datta, Hemendranath non-collegiate student. 

Kundn, Ajitkumar, non-collegiate student. 

Maitra, Prahirkumar, non-collegiate student. 

De, Annadaprasad, University ৪41: of Commerce. 

i 


Bhattacharyya, Bhupendranath, University College 
of Commerce. 


(00 


72 


00 


98 


110 
112 


M.A. 


me & tS لم‎ 


a oO ےك‎ ০৩ Wwe 


[Parr 1 


আপ পিল উস ৯০:50 শা পর ক সস ইউস পর 
০৮ ہس | سج شش رگج‎ 


Bhattacharyya, Ajitkumar, University College of 
Commerce. : 

Dhar, Anilkumar, non-collegiate student, 

Sarkar, Pranabananda, University College of Com- 
merce, 

Dasgupta, Manoranjan, University College of 092). 
merce. 

Yalamanchili Venkateswara Rao, University College 
of Commerce. 

Bandyopadhyay, 
of Commerce. 

Shyam Narayan, non-collegiate student. 
aa, Manoranjan, University College of Commerce, 

Bandyopadhyay, Samirranjun, non-collegiate student. 

Ide, Samirendranath, non-collegiate student. 

0929 Ranajitnarayan, University student, City 
sollege. 

Dharchaudhuri, Niharranjan, University College of 
Commerce. 

Pal, Batakrishna, University College of Commerce. 

Ray, Arunkumar, University College of Commerce. 

Gupta, Parthasarathi, University College of Com- 


Murarimohan, University College 


merce, 

Mukhopadhyay, Gurupada, University student, City 
Collage, 

Hora, Bijaykrishna, non-collegiate student. 

Shiv Kumar Sharma, University College of’ Com- 
merce, 

Tribhuon Dubey, University College of Commerce. 

M. M. Kundunny enon, University College of 
Commerce. 

Sarkar, Birbalchandra, non-collegiate student. 

Chattopadhyay, Tapaskumar, University College ot 
Commerce. — 

Dasgupta, Pranabkumar, University College of Com- 
merce. 

Ray, Makhantlal, non-collegiate student. 

Sanyal, Tapendrakumar, non-collegiate student. 

Sinhamahapatra, Sudhirchandra, University Oollege 
of Commerce. 

Bhattacharyya, Achalkumar, 
Commerce. 

Das, Chintaharan, non-collegiate student. 

Das, Samarendranath, University Collego of Com- 
merce. 

Guharay, Manischandra, non-collegiate student. 

Purshottam Dass, University College of Commerco. 

Saha, Pratapchandra, University College of Com- 


University College of 


merce, 
Adhikari, Sudhirchandra, non-collegiate student. 
Bhattacharyya, Sibsankar, non-collegiato student. 
Basu, Narayanchandra, University ollege of Com- 
merce. 
Chaudhuri, Nirmalchandra, University College of 
Commerce. 


Mukhopadhyay, Patitpaban, non-collegiate student. 
Gangopadhyay, Sukumarranjan, non-collegiate 

student. 
Mukhopadhyay, اس ا‎ gat non-collegiate student. 
Chakrabarti, Nanigopal, non-collegiate student. 
Ghosh, Barindrakumar, non-collegiate student. 
Pal, Sujitkumar, University College of Commerce. 
Raychaudhuri, Amalendu, non-collegiate student. 
Ghoshal, Umapada, University College of Commerce. 
Sen, Prasantakumar, non-collegiate student. 


AND M&0. EXAMINATIONS, NOVEMBER 1955 


(Arranged in order of merit) 
A—Denotes Arts 
Sc—Denotes Science 


Pure ۲٤6 
FIRST 8 
Deb, Rekba (Se), University student, Presidency 
College (University Gold Medalist). 
Kar, Bharatkumar (Sc), University College of 
Science (University Silver Medalist). 
Mukhopadhyay, Manjula (Sc), University College of 


Science. 
(Sc), University College of 


Mandal, 
Science. 
SECOND 8 
Ghosh, Amitabha (A), University College of শিগ91706. 


Bhakta, Harekrishna (Sc), University Oollege of 
Science. 

Das, Narayanchandra (8c), 
Science. 

Bindinganavale Kriahu&a JTyongar (8c), University 
College of Science. # 

Mandal, Nirmalkumar (90), "University College of 
00 ۰ 

Mukhopadhyay, Asoknath (Sc), University College 
of Science, 

Pal, Manindranath (8c), University College of 
Science. 

Sil, Santoshkumar (90), 

De, Hrishikes (Re), University College of Soi 
e, Hrishikes (Sc), Universi ‘ollege of Science. 

Ghosh, Sukumar (Sc). University College of 8٥٠۰ 

Maitra, Tares (Se), University College of Science, 

Guha, Jadunath (Sc), University College of Science. 

si lia a (Sc), University College of 


Ramjiban 


University College of 


University College of 


Parr 1B] 


THE © TT 
CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


429 


SS নর ইউর سم‎ 

14 era Pulinhi , رھ سے جک کچھ یت‎ -০২০-০ 

15 ای‎ inbihari (Ss), University College of 6 9 7 

» On, ছু 0 ngupta, P 

16 Pal, | হি নি student 7 ct রর (Sc), University College 

7 مو و‎ , Untversity College of 8 ا‎ ۰ : 1 University College of Sci : 

1919 1 Sei man Choudhur 8 Science ’ 0 0 (Sc) Uni 9 Science, 

18 ae la y (Sc), University Col- 9 Bes. Amalku এ versity College of 
= 9 . ad a 

a Science, anath (8c), University College of 10 দা mar (Sc), University College of 

. ar, Syam 9 a, Anjali (A Tai 
20 ‘Mukhoy yamaprasad (Se ۴ : 11 Saha ৃ ), Universit, 
| re of Res দা iate student. রী 9 ۶ 0 (Sc), Correa of Science. 
21 Ghattovadiony. 1 Sc),° University Col- 12 Sen, Su lac ee ۱ iversity student, 
of Science. y, Tapendra (Sc), University College ee ید ا £ ۶ء002‎ tee) উড না ید پر‎ 
2 ۲ ٦ 7 : 7 
রি ۱ THIRD CLASS Sen, ھ0‎ , University College 

2 andal, Sisirkumar (Sc Science. (Se), University C 

Ghosh, ‘Krishna (3 (Sc), non-collegiate stud TH ollege of 

দা نا سم‎ So Aleta iat of Avion Mitra, 00981] ne ا‎ 

۶ ۰ ۰ 18٤ : وک‎ 
4 দাশ Dalal mar (Sc), University (1) مم‎ ndra (Sc), University College of 
5 M see of Science. alchandra (Sc), University Co (2) Submitted tr entitled, Plant C 
ohnminad Sohorab y 1. (3) Submitted resis entitled, ‘Plant ytogenetica’’. 

6 Modak, Bt (a), চর লয় ed_ thesis entitled, iBtudies one the Phy 
পু, agbatkumar এ vernalization of ৪ xperiment on V on the Physio- 
cience, (Sc), U n of Summe on Vernalizat 

7 Sanyal, Dipak (Se), Uni ), University College of আত XV" ٦ and Winter variety 

Sen, Santi niversity C. ۱ ےا‎ . ies on Physi 
9 Adak, ا‎ ol Gea (Se) 1 দন Poteet ere Science. Pca 989 ھ٦‎ thesis entitled, ‘Physi ysiology of 
তন? r (Sc), University College = ions of Rice Plant’? ysiology of Rice XIV 
acnaryya, Bish 

nucharan (Se), University Col- FIRS? CLA‏ سیت مس ہا رر 

Science. yay, Samiran (Se), Universi 1 Datta, Kalyani CLASS 

12 Ghoshal, Nitai ity College of (Uni lyani (A), Universi 

is Sate, Nitaidas (Sc) 9 niversity Gold Medali ersity College of Sci 

saat Narayanchandra ঃ রাস 56191) 00۰١ ra, 175 বি 
00102, ۱ Sc), University College - Science f Jniversity تا‎ 7 College of 
ST CLASS 2 3 , University Colle 

1 Mitra, Milonkumar (So টিটি ukhopadiyay, Prabhatkumar (Se), Univeral 
cience (University G University © 3 ٦ و‎ Sc), University Col 

2 Bandyopadhyay یہ‎ 7 Gold Medalist) y College of ay) Rama (Mrs. Chakr ٦ 

Science (Unix aridag (Sc) Universit 4 ৫ lege of Science rabarti) (A), Universi 
3 নান গালা evel Medalist). y College of سے‎ >rasad Sharda (A), Uni ersity 
cience. a (A), Universit 8 Miia ao , University Colle 
٠ . ge of 
4 Sarkar, Taparkumar (8c) ০7 ৪ 1৮185) দুদু Gat ۱ 
* ’ 081 ٠ , Universi 1610 

5 Bagchi, Madhabe hand University College of : Re وج سد‎ 27 ন্ট College af লন 
cience ‘handra (Sc), Universi 8 Sarkar S » University Coll 

6 Das, Nara র্‌ ersity College of Sarkar, Subhransuk ollege of 

se ee yancbandra (Sc), Universi Science. umar (Sc), University Coll 

7 Acharyya, ; : versity College of Gangopadhyay y College of 
ryya, Sudbirch 9 8 yay, Oukarnath (A ‘ 

(A), University Coll‏ ,08709 47725 اوہ 

8 Ba ahi K $ versity College of Sengupta, Karti ۷ 986 of 
‘hi, Kesab و‎ ikchand 

: 089০০, 81501780018, (Sc), University College of 1] 7) وت‎ i ra (Sc), University College 
و‎ ubi » mandhya ٦ রর 

10 ا‎ irkumar (Se), University College of 18 লে th اش‎ রন سن‎ 
Oo, Subh ۰ 0 کے‎ ana ‘ 1 

Science. ashchandra (Sc), University Colle 13 crea ; (Sc), University College of 

1 Kanrar, Sibura ee 14 Mishra Prati ©), University College 

2 Pal, Mrinalkants Se), University College of Sci 15 M سا‎ A), University Coll 

ও Mukhopa i (he), University College 0 16 Bhattach, yay, Kamal (S:), University Colloge اہ‎ 

u opadhyay Trinti 0 Bhattacharyya 8 ollege of 

سو سمش یو سو 02 76 i ae et‏ 

5 রন (৯2), University College تا‎ irkumar (Se), Universi 

pe 9 enchanan’ (A), ‘non-collegiat 18 Baksi, Pranabkumar ( টির 

attopadhyay, | “Collegiate Science. ar (Se), Universi 

۱ ৪০৪? রি নি apada (Sc), University Col a Haldar, “Kshetramohan (৪০) ےت‎ 

ngupta, Ind : নি cience, c), Uni নর 

8 Majumdar ranarayan (Sc), University Coll 20 Das, Minika (A), Universi ٭“‎ پ۶٤‎ 

9 ajumdar, Mina (S ; ege of 21 Mukhopadhya A niversity College of Sci 

۲ nuttopadh yay, 17758 College of Scion =e Sabi ii Gite 1 8) (A), non-c Se এ 
Chattopndby (Se), University College of (11 187:416)1 টার Gallene 6 ২০০৩০ 
: i - vc nce. 
জি ay, almohan (8c), non-collogiat 20 Chakrabarti, (A). University 9155৫ حر‎ 

1 Pal Pimalk THIRD (LASS giate 96 Hhe ےت‎ (Sc), University College 

(Sc), Universit Science, ushan (8c), Universit‏ ود 

ঘা Reet, Beaks ity College of 27 Mitra, Sujitkuma y College of 

i کپ‎ jaykrishna (Sc), University Coll Science. r (Sc), University College of 

বিডি 2 | ege of 1 Bandy THIRD CLASS 0‏ تسس 
University College of Un ৬0 Jyotsna (Mrs, G‏ ,) .616110 
a‏ ۰ 5 581 
Botany ; a wnt রিনি 908) ০০৪৮০৪০০০৪০‏ 
۰ 0 ۱ 
me ' : ? niveral‏ : : 
._,م ‏ ‪ ص00 Mukhopatiay ie 87775 A‏ 2 
College of », 8 ndranath (2) nthropology‏ 
a‏ . 8 : 7 7 ‘ 
এ না ররর রা‏ 
sity লগ গর (Group 3) (S :‏ ےت University College of‏ » 

1 Char hur; SECOND CLASS রর یی‎ 0 পি পিক নিত c), Univer- 
idhuri, Taritgobinda (9 দি দিনকে 2 

مھ سی ۵۹۵ 9 ۷گ ",۶+" রত‏ 8981 2 

‘ ۱ : 0 ) ea: و‎ 4 

7) ۹ মানা مد گید‎ College of Science 4 বাদ টা ee cup A) (Se), University 

iho رر‎ ۶ rishna (4) (80), Univers নিচ akalyan (Group A) (Se), University 0 

Colle TAT Upendrachandra (Sc) J ukhopadhyay, Sakark y Col- 

5 نی‎ ak ue বান Sc), University ۹ 5 College of সা (Group A) (8c), Uni 
(6) (8c), University Colle ےت‎ Anima. (Group A) (8 = تشم‎ 

ge of ence, Se), University College 


Science. 


Dasgupta, Pra 
এ পপ 


430 


لم NW‏ & سے 


০১ ہت‎ m ৪০ bo پا‎ 


0০ 


. (4) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 0 


eed Re US রী পি তি সস EET TY TR‏ کہہے 
পর ৯ ad‏ 


THIRD CLASS 


Ghosh, Ramendra (Group B) (Sc), University Col- 
lege of Science. 00 

1১. Kostan Roy (Group B) (Se), University College 
of Science. 

Dhar, Dilipkumar (Group B) (A), 
lege of Science. : 

Chakrabarti, Kartikchandra (Group A) (Sc), Uni- 
versity College of Science. 


University Col- 


Geography 


FIRST CLASS 


Ray, Bharati (Group B) (A), University College of 
Science کر‎ Gold Medalist). . 

Nath, Dehbaprasad (1) (Sc), University student, 
Presidency College (University Silver Medalist). 

Sen, Prabhatkumar (2) (Sc), University student, 
Presidency College. 


SECOND CLASS 
Sinha, Sulekha (3) (A), University College of 


Science. ছি ۱ 
Sen, Sabita (4) (Se), University student, Presidency 


ع٠۰ ا‎ 
Biswas, Minati (Group B) (A), University College 
of Science. 
De, Sobha (Gruup B) (A), 
Science, 
Sarkar, Sureschandra (Group A) (Sc), 
College of Science. 
Baral, Charan (5) (A), 
Science. 
Mandal, Arahinda (Group A) (Sc), University Col- 
lege of Science. __ 
Bhattacharyya, Rabindranath (Group <A) (Sc), 
University College of Science. 
Ghosh, Dwijendranath (Group A) (Se), University 
College of Science. , ere 
Mukhopadhyay, Samita (Group B) (A), University 
College of Science. AOE 

Sardar, Manjira (Group B) (A), University College 
of Science. 

Gop, Raymohan (Group <A) (A), 
student. ۱ ۱ 

Ram Narain Pandey (Group B) (A), University Col- 
lege of Science. ۱ 

Sengupta, Aparna (Group B) (A), University Col- 
lege of Science. 

Basu, Kalidasi (Group B) (A), University College 
of Science. , ۱ 

Debi, Diptimayi (Group B) (A), University College 
of Science. ۱ 

Chaudhuri, Rathindranath (Group A) (Sc), Univer- 
sity College of Science. 

Shco Murat Singh (Group B), (4) University Col- 
lege of Science. 


THIRD CLASS 


Chakrabarti, Santoshkumar (Group B) (Sc), Uni- 
versity College of Science. 
Submitted thesis entitled, 


University College of 
University 


University College 01 


non-collegiate 


‘‘Regional Geography of 
ation 


Nowgong district with special reference to popu 
{2) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘The Geographical basis 

of Colonisation in the Andamans’’. 
(3) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘Geography of tea with 


special reference to Darjeelin 


district’’. 


(4) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘The Agricultural Geo- 


graphy of 24-Parganas excluding Bangaon subdivision"’. 
: (5) Sul. mitted thesis enfitled, ‘“‘The forest Geography of 
rissa’’. a 


৩১ হও তাতে «ay Ar MS ৪৩ ৮ 


fed need 


Education 


FIRST CLASS 
Ghosh, Arunkumar (A), University College of Arts 
(University Gold Medalist). ۱ 
Datta, Gauri (A), University College of Arts (Uni- 
versity Silver Medalist). 


SECONT) CLASS 


Ray, Madanmohan (Sc), University College of Arts. 
দুদ, Mrinalini (Sc), University College of 


7 
Guha, Sunila (A), University College of Arts. 
Bardhan, Asimkumar (A), University College of 


Arts. 
Indra Bhasin (A), University College of Arts. 
000 Dipika (A), University College of 


rta. 
Sanyal, Amiyaballabh (A), University College of 


7 

Sarkar, Sunanda (A), Univerajty College of Arts. 

Bagchi, Bijaya (A), cen College of Arts, 

Sen, Arati (A), University College of Arts, 

815 Minu (A), University Colloge of 
rt 


লি 
Basu, Asoka (Sc), University College of Arts. 
118), Kalvani (A), University College of ید‎ 
Dasgnpta, Purnima (A), University Collego of নি, 
77 Hiranprabha (A), University College of 
ri4 
Bera, Bandana (A), University College of Arta. 
Chaudhuri, Arati (A), University College of Arts, 


শট ee 


Gr 4৬ 


[art 1B 


22 Se eee (ھ۔...---.ے..-.-..--..‎ ae tea تہ‎ পথ 


THIRD CLASS 
Meroe, Kartikchandra (A), University College of 
rts, 


M.80. EXAMINATION, NOVEMBER 1985 
(Arranged in order of merit) 


Physics 
FIRST CLASS 


Mukhopadhyay, কা University College of 
Science (University Gold Medahst). 

Ray, Haripada, University College ot Science (Uni- 
verisity Gold Medalist). 
hosh, Binayak, University College 
(University Silver Medalist). 

Saha, Jaygopal, University College of Science. 

Pan, Nityaranjan, University College of Science. 

Sen, Dilip, University student, Presidency College. 


SECOND CLASS 


Das, Anadijiban, University College of Science. 

Goswami, Anilkumar, University College of Science. 

Chattopadhyay, Smritinarayan, University College 
of Science. 

Md. Abdul Quader, University College of Scienoe, 

Ghosh, Bholunath, University student, Prosidency 
College. 

সান Suryyakanta, University student, Presidency 
Jollege. 

Biswas, Jyotirmay, University 
College. 

Sen, Kshaunischandra, 
dency College. 

Ghosh, سم‎ পপ University student, Presidency 


of Science 


student, Presidency 


University student, Presi- 


College. 
Pal, Jyotsnamay, University student, Presidency 
College. 
Mitra, Nripendranuth, University student, Presi- 


dency College. 

Sinha, Asokkumar, University College of Science. 

Ghosh, Purnendranath University student, Presi- 
dency College. 

Acharyya, Samarendranath, University College of 
Science. 


Saikia, Bhobendranath, University student, Presi- 


dency College. 
ر0‎ Sephalika, University student, Presidency 
ollege. 
Saha, Himansukumar, University student, Preni- 


dency College. 
را‎ Tultul, University student, Presidency Col- 
ego. 
Guha, Ajana, University College of Science. 
Ray, Mihirkumar, University College of Science. 
৪ Samirchandra, University student, Presidency 
ollege. 
Basu, Balailal, University student, Presidency Col- 


ege. 

Ray, Dhirajkumar, University student, Presidency 

ege, 

Bhattacharyya, Pulak, University 
dency College. _ 

Chattopadhyay, Amiyakumar, University College of 
Science. 

Bhattacharyya, 
Science. 

Bandyopadhyay, Sukumar, University College of 
Science. oe 

Ghosh, Nripeschandra, University student, Presi- 
dency College, 

Chattopadhya,;, Jaydeh, University student, Presi- 
dency College. 

Bandyopadhyay, Salilkumar, 
Presidency College. 


student, Presi- 


Niranjan, University College of 


University student, 


Chattopadhyay, Renuka, University student, 
Presidency College.. 
THIRD+CLASS 
Bhattacharyya, Subodhkumar, University student, 
Presidency College. 
Das, Dhirajymohan, University student, Prosidency 
College. 


Ghosh, Amiyaprasad, University College of Science. 

Ray, Uma, University College of Science. 

sie Sunilkumar, University student, Presidency 
ollege. 

Chattopadhyay, Sifjib, nor-collegiate student. 


Chemistry 
FIRAT OLASS 


Uttam Tall Rajbhandary, University student, Presi- 


dency College (University Gold Medalist). 
Majumdar, Nilima, University College of Science 
: 09, 7 جانا ا‎ 7 tT ۱ 
ay, Dolly, University College of مھ‎ niver- 
sity Silver Medaliat).. ‘ 819" ( 
Seha, tHarendrakumar, University Oollege of Science. 
Sen, ماس‎ University student, Presidency 
10. 


i 
- Pat, Medinikanta, University Colleye of Science, 


Bandyopadhyay, Nilima, University student, Preaie 
dency College, 


parr 1B] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 431 


a Ta a gS a ag Ne To جچیےکو چس‎ পা A A سے ہہ‎ a Rn a LE a oS a En aed 


۶ 
8 Gu Santikumar, University student, Prosidency 
ollege. 
' 9 Adityachaudhuri, Narayanchandra, University Col- 
lege of Science. oo 
10 Talukdar, Pabitrakumar, University student, Presi- 
dency College. 


SECOND CLASS ٠ 


Saha, Kunal, University student, Presidency College. 

Bhattacharyya, Ramprasad, University student, 
Presidency College. 3 

Bhattacharyya, Rama, University College of Science. 

Bandyopadhyay, Sibaprasad, University College of 
Science. 

Das, Amalendu, University College of Science. 

Rakshit, Bimalcharan, University student, Presi- 
dency oe a 

Deb, Santoshkumar, University student, Presidency 
College. 

Basuray, Subirranjan, University College of Science. 

Sen, Sujata, University College of Science. 

Bandyopadhyay, Dilipkumar, University student, 
Presidency College. 

Lodh, Hemendrakisor, University student, Preni- 
dency College. 

12 Sengupta, Niharranjan, University student, Presi- 

dency College. 

13 Ray, Santibhushan, University College of Science. 

14 Ghosh, Ajitkumar, University College of Science. 

15 Mallik, Kanailal, University student, Presidency Col- 


نر تہ 


০০ ২০ 00 nt ৩১০৭ eo 


জ 


ege. 

16 Bhattacharyya, Pushparani, University student, 
Presidency College. 

17 Kundu, Kirankumar, University student, Presidency 
College. 

18 cai Jyotirmay, University student, Presidency Col- 


ege. 
19 Guha, Kiranchandra, non-collegiate student. 
20 Sharma, Maheswar, University College of Science. 


Physiology 


FIRST CLASS 


1 Bandyopadhyay, Maya (1), University student, Pre- 
sidency College (University Prizeman). 

De, Prasantakumar, University College of Science 
(University Prizeman). 


SECOND CLASS 


1 Singaram Soobramanian Naidoo, University College 
of Science, : 
2 Ray, Anima (2), University student, Presidency 
llege 


BS 


0 : 

3 Mukhopadhyay, Ranjitkumar, University College of 
Science. 

4 Ray, Dilip (3), University College of Science. 

5 Gupta, Jayanti (Mrs. Sengupta), University College 
of Science. . 

6 Sahu, Gadadhar, University College of Science. 

? Ghosh, Rajendramohan (4), University College of 
Science. 

8 Mitra, Chitralekha, University College of Science. 

9 Goswami, Ajitkumar, University College of Science. 

0 Ray, Biswaranjan, University College of Science. 


THIRD CLASS 


1 Kole, Biswanath, University College of Science. 
2 Ghosh, Dilipkumar, University College of Science. 
hosh, Jharna, University College of Science. . 

(1) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘Studies on the Vitamine 

2 Vitamine B6 and Inositol contents of ungerminated 
and geminated pulses’’. 

(2) Submitted thesis entitled, “Studies on the essential 
Amino Acid composition and avaijability of Amino Acids in 
Pulses and Rice’. 

_(3) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘Effects of Alloxan on 

18826 Einzymes—Studies in Vivo’’. +0 

(4) Submitted thesis entitled, “Study on the excitability 
and contractibility of different types of muscles by snake 
“enoms and electrolytes’. 


Geology 


FIRST CLASS 


1 Datta, Asokkumar, University College of Science 
(University Gold Medalist). 

2 Basu, Mihirkumar (1), University student, Presi- 

1 dency College (University Silver Medalist). 

۵ Biswas, Sanjihkumer (2)» টি student, Presi- 
dency College. 

4 Ghosh, Subrata (3), University student, Presidency 
College, ; : 

Chandra, Prasadkumar (4), University atudent,‏ ت5 

۱ Presidency College. 

6 Chakrabartj, Priyasankar (5), University student, 
Presidency College. 

7 Mitra, Parthanarathi, University College of Science. 

۲٢ Guha, Dilipkumar, University student, Presidency 
Collego. 

9 Chakrabarti, Kanailal (8), 
Presidency College. 


University student, 


SECOND CLASS 


1 Chakrabarti, Arunansu (7), University student, 
Presidency College. 

2 Nag, Panchanan, University College of Science. 

3 Das, Ajaysankar, University College of Science. 

4 Ray, Asit, University College of Science. 


(1) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘Petrology of the area 
around Champua, Keonjhar, Orissa’. 

(2) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘A study of Metamor- 
phism around Rilli Valley, Darjeeling district’’. 

(3) Submitted thesis entitled, “The Geology, Structure 
and Ore Deposits of Zawar, Rajasthan’’. 

(4) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘Anorthosite and related 
rocks around Rambha, Ganjam district’. 

(5) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘Study of metamorphic 
rocks around Ranihandh and Rautara, Bankura district 
with a note on mineralisation”’. 

(6) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘The Geolo around 
Radampahar area, Mayurbhanj district, Orissa with special 
reference to Iron QOres’’. 

(7) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘The Geology of the area 


around Jojuhatu with special reference to its economic 
10501070081), 


Zoology and Comparative Anatomy 


FIRST CLASS 


1 Ghosh, Taranarayan (1), University College of 
Science (University Prizeman), 

2 Gorai, Ajitkumar, University College of Science 
(University Silver Medalist). 

3 Chattopadhyay, Amiyakumar, University College of 


Science. 
Bhattacharyya, Basudeb, University College of 
Science. 
6 Bandyopadhyay, Amalchandra, University College of 
Science. 


SECOND 8٤98 


BEIM, Amiyakanti (2), University College of 
clence. : 

Datta, Rakhahari, University College of Science. 
Bandyopadhyay, Barundeb (3), University College of 


Science. 
Ghosh, Sanjib, University College of Science. 
Das, Nareschandra (4), University College of Science. 
Das, Subhashchandra, University College of Science. 
Nas, Narerwar, University College of Science. 
Mandal, Gopalchandra, University College of Science. 
Daschaudhuri, Purnachandra, University College of 
Science, 
10 Datta, Nareschandra, University College of Science. 


CO سم‎ 


BDDBDyAArmp 


(1) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘Location of chromosome 
breaks induced by X-rays in the Spermatocytes of the 
grasshopper, Gesonula Punctifrons’’. 

(2) Submitted thesis entitled. ‘Some aspects of the ana- 
tomy of the Tenebrioides mauritanicus (Linn). 

(Coleoptera: Polyphaga: Diversicornia: Trogositidae.)”’ 

(3) Submitted thesis entitled, on the anatomy of the 
termite ‘“‘Odontotermes redemanni (Wasmann)’’. 

(4) Submitted thesis entitled, ‘‘On the Biology and 
Anatomy of the mouth parts alimentary and reproductive 
systems of Hispa armigera oliver family Chrysomelidae 


ord. Coleoptera’. 


Statistics 


FIRST CLASS 


1 Bhattacharyya, Bibhutibhnushan, University College 
of Science (University Gold Medalist). 

Ravelrandhuri, Dwijendrakumar, University student, 
Presidency College (University Silver Medalist). 


to 


SECOND CLASS : 


1 Malakar, Chittaranjan, University College of 
Science. 

2 Dattaray, Sachchidananda, University College of 
Seience. 07 

3 Dattaray, Bijankumar, University College of 
Science. 

4 Bhattacharyya, Ajitkumar, University College of 
Science, 


Datta, Manoranjan, University College of Science. 


THIRD CLASS 
Chaudhuri, Subimal, University College of Science. 


N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations, 


432 


The following candidates are declared to have passed in the Board Examination 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


re 2د‎ 
(০ 


nase 


WEST BENGAL MADRASAH EDUCATION BOARD 


Calcutta, the 13th June 1956 


of High Madrasah held in March-April 1956 :— 


Roll No. 


Namo of candidate, 


Akra High Madrasah 


Md. Anisuddin : 
Md. Younus Ali Khan 
Md. Musa Molla 


Furtura High Madrasdh 


Mohammad Nowsher Ali 
Khondker Mohammad Gholam Vehia 


Hooghly Madrasah 


Muhammad Shafique 
Muhammad Haqeeq 
Muhammad Ataullah 

Ali Ahmed Ansari ey 
Mohammad Matiur Rahman .. 
Muhammad Israil 

Muhammad Omar Ali 

Shaikh Muhammad Hafizur Rahman 
Muhammad Ataheruddin 
Muhammad Altafuddin 

Abdul Ali 

Muhammad Abdur Razzaq 
Muhammad Abdul Hannan 
Muhammad Abdul Wajed 
Shaikh Muhammad Ashraf Ali 
Muhammad Yeasin Ali : 
Muhammad Idris 

Muhammad Abu Baker 
Muhammad Waijuddin 


Pandua High Madrasah 


Khandokar Barhan Ahmad 
Mohammad Shamser Ali 7 
Khandokar Mir Jan Ali 
Muhammad Nebber Ali 

Abdul Quader ine oe 
Abdul Alim 

Shaikh Muhammad ‘Sanaullah — 
Abul Quasim oe ae 


Kulgoria High Madrasah 


Muhammad Abdul Mannan 
Abdul Mannan 
Muhammad Zillur Rahman ., 
Muhammad Matiur Rahman . 
Abu Torab Mondal 

Shaikh Abdul Hamid 


Bhabta High Madrasah 


Muhammad Ezaruddin 8 
Muhammad Mohbub-U! Hag 
Abdullahil Kafi.. ۱ 
Muhammad Zillur Rahman 
Abdul Hannan .. 

Muhammad Mikail 

Muhammad Abdul Baqui 
Muhammad Ismail 

Shaikh Muhaminad Israfil 


রি ¢*Muhammad Mosihur Rahman | 


Division. Position. 


2 ٠ TI 


[Farr 1B 


Parr IB] 


Mur 95 
Mur. 96 
Mur, 97 


Mur. 100 


Mur. 113 


Cal. 20 
Cal, 22 
Cal. 23 
Chin. 77 
Chin, 78 
Chin, 79 
Mur, 116 
Mur, 117 


N.B.—The undernoted candidates have secured distinction in the subject 


THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, 


JULY 12, 1956 


Jangipur High Madrasah 


Muhammad Musa 
Abdul Majid Sheikh 
Muhammad Nurul Haq 


Lalgola High Madrasah 
Muhammad Abdul Mannan 


Manickchak High Madrasah 
Muhammad Azizul Haque 


Private 


Gazi Md Abul Kalam 
Musammat Hazera Khatun 
Mohammad Bin Abu Salma 
Ahmed Hossain 

Md. Aiyub 

Muhammad Khalilullah 
Muhammad Abu Sayed 
Muhammad Moslem Ali 


noted against their roll Nos.— 


The following candidates are declared to have passed in the Board Examination 


Roll Chin, No, 24 ٦ 
Roll Mur. No. 83 
Roll Chin, No. 75 
Roll Mur. No. 85 


Roll Chin. No. 33 Mathematics (Addl.). 


of Alim held in March-April 1956 :— 


Roll No. 


Name of candidate, 
Calcutta Madrasah 


Abul Qasem Bashir Ahmed 
Ahmed Ah : 

Md. ۸001 

Quazi Jama) Ahmed 

Md. Kamaluddin 

Md. Mohiuddin Ahmed 
Md. Amjad Ali 

Md. Sharfuddin 


Mollah Zahiruddin Ahmed __.. oe 
Md. Ikramul Haque ‘A oe 
Syed Md. Nisar Hossain es os 
Md. Abdul Bari .. کت‎ - 
Md. Yameen Ali .. és 
Md. Azizur Rahman - و‎ 
Md. Irfan Ali P 7 
Abul Qasem Md. Abdur Razzaque os 
Md. Abdus Salam 5 7 
Md. Hossain 7 7 7 
Mir Abul Kalam .. : i 


Md. Harunur Rashid Mallick 
Md. Herasatullah ' 
Md. Moinuddin ,, 

Md. Qamruddin Ahmed 

Md. Ihsanullah 


e 


Akra Senior Madrasah 


Nazir Ahmed : ; 

Shoikh Md. Abdul Khalequo ٦ 

Md, Fazullah : 7۰٦ 

Md. Alamgir 

Md. Ismail 

Md. Hazarat Ali 

Md, Zainul Abedin : 
Md. Rajab Ali... a ‘ 


} Mathematics (Comp.),. 


11 
11 
IT 


11 


11 


| ae and Mathematics (Addl.). 


Division, 


Position. 


3rd 


4383 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


Furfura Senior Madrasah 


Cal. 43 Omer Ahmed a oe পু III 

Cal. 44 Md. Abdus Sattar ig ae IIT 

Cal. 45 Md. Daud Ali : = 111 

Cal. 46 Abu Kalid Md. Jamiluddin Siddiqui 7 II 
Private 

Cal. 48 Hafiz Ali Hossain و‎ a II 

Cal. 49 Md. Nurul Islam .. 7۰ 7 111 


The following candidates are declared to have passed in the Board Examination 
of Fazil held in March-April 1956 তে? 


Roll No. Name of candidate. Division. Position. 
Calcutta Madrasah 
Cal. 1 Md. Abdul Hafiz Khan oe es I* 2nd 
Cal. 2 Sayyed Abul Barakat ee ae I 
Cal. 3 Md. Zainul Abedin rae ei I 
Cal. 4 Md. Mansur Alam Mazhari se I 3rd. 
Cal. 5 Md. Abdur Rashid ٦ oy II 
Cal. 7 Md. Abdul Basir یی‎ me II 
Cal. 8 Abul Faz] Md Hussain ie an II 
Cal. 9 Md. Usman Ghani 7 II 
Cal. 10 Abul Qasem Din Mohammed . 7٠ 1 
Cal. 12 Sheikh Md. Abul Quasem : 7 I 
Cal. 13 Md. Khoda Baksh 7 5 ٭1‎ lat, 
Cal. 14 Md. Azizur Rahman ue 7 1 
Akra Senior 8 
Cal. 15 Syed Mukarram Ali re II 
Cal. 16 Md. Rafiquddin .. ৪: 7 11 
Cal. 17 Md. Ehsanul Haque 2 7 1 
Cal. 19 Md. Habibullah .. 7 7 11 
Cal, 1 Md. Sekandar Ali 7 রি II 
ہے‎ Furfura Senior Madrasah 
Cal. 22 Md. Muzammelul Haque I 
Cal. 23 Khondkar Md. Motiur سکم‎ 7 1 
Cal. 4 Muslimuddin 7 2 7 1 
Private 
Cal. 25 ہ٣‎ Md. Matiur Rahman 7 1 


ز٢. م7 ور‎ undernoted candidates have secured distinction in the groups men- 
fioned against their Roll Nos. سے‎ ‘ 


Roll Cal. Nos. 1 and 13 ہے‎ Hadith and Tafsir. 


The following candidates are declared to have passed in the Board Examination 
of Mumtazul Muhaddethin held in March-April 1956 শে 


Roll No. Name of candidate. Division. Position. 
Calcutta Madrasah 

Cal. 1 Md. Musawar Ali bf ٦ Il ۰ 
Cal. 3 .. Md. Rahatullah.. ae me Il Ist. 
Cal. 4 Md. Maula Baksh .. oe es 11 

Cal. 7 .. Hafiz Abdur Rab a5 me 11 ond. 
al. 8 _. Md. Abdul Wahed ay 7 11 

Cal. 9 .. Md. Abdul Hakin 7 7 11 

Cal. 10 Zahuruddin Lashkar = ar 11 

Cal. 11 .. Md Shuaybur Rahman নর - 11 

Cal. 12 ., Md. Abul Quasim .. oe re II 


8. AHMED, Registrar, 
West Bengal Madrasah Education Board. 


(Farr 1B 


০০০ চা i sine مد ڑھ‎ এ 
সস ۔‎ ০টি 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


es مرو‎ 


EN RES‏ ےس سج بیج 
ee‏ = = —— ےه ——— ee (উর‏ سے مسچسیو 


GOENKA COLLEGE OF COMMERCE AND BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION, CALOUTTA 


Results of the Government Commercial Course Final Examination, 1956 


Dated Caloutta, the 13th June 1956. 


The following candidates are declared to have passed the Final Examination, 1956, and the 
success in the Optional subject or subjects offered by some of thom has been noted against their 
names :—~ 


(Letters “B. K."’ indicate that the candidate has secured at lonat 80 per cent. marks in 


Book-keoping.) 
CLASS I. 
(In order of merit.) 
Name of the candidate. Optional subjects. 
O. Venkata Rao ». {Shorthand 100 words per minute. 
Typewriting 55 words per minute. 
Amal Kumar Ghosal .. Typewriting 45 words per minute. 
Ajoy Kumar Ghosh (B. K.). 
CLASS II. 


(In order of Roll numbers.) 


Amitava Sen .. Typowriting 30 words per minute. 
Ajoy Kumar Bhadra. 

Amarendra Chandra Banorjee. 

Ashutosh Basak .. Typewriting 30 words per minute. 


Arun Bhattacharyya. 

Aloke Nath Chakravarty. 
Asoke Sen. 

Bhalendu 0۰ 

Bhaskar Samanta. 

Binay Chandra Bhadra. 
Dinanath Prasad. 

Dilip Kumar Chattopadhyaya. 
Deb Kumar Gupta 

Dilip Kumar Sett. 

Dilip Kumar Banerjee. 
Debabrata Das. 

Jagadish Kumar Chawla. 
Kalipada Sadhukhan. 

Kumud Ranjan Goswami. .. Typewriting 40 words per minute. 
Mati Lal Roy. 

Nirmalendu Chakravorty. 
Prosanto Kumar Chatterjeo. 
Pronobesh Chattopadhyay. 
Promode Ranjan Chowdhury. 
Panchu Gopal Mukherjee. 
Ramnath Jharkhandi. 
Ranganath Gupta »» Typewriting 30 words por minute. 
Ragindra Nath Bhattacharjoe. 
Sabitri Deb Chatterjee. 

8. Karrar Hussain. 

Santosh Kumar Sen Gupta. 
Shaik Golam Mostafa Jamadar. 
Sunil Kumar Das. 

Sudhir Kumar Basak. 
Sachindranath Bharracharjee. 
Samir Kumar Chatterjeo. 
Sachindranath Das. 

Tushar Kanti Sen Gupta. 
Tapas Kanti Talukdar. 


Results of the Government Commercial Course SpecialJExamination, 1956 


N.B.—"Class I’’ indicates that the candidates have obtained at least 70 per cent. of the ] marks 
in Advanced Book-keeping and Accountancy and Shorthand and at least 60 per cent. of 
marks in Juniot Book-keeping and Accountancy. 


Lotter against the name of a candidate indicates that he has obtained not less than 80 per cent. 
of the full marks in the particular subject for which it stands. 


(“Jr. BK”’ indicates Junior Book-keeping and Accountancy.) 


Advanced Book-keeping and Accountancy 


CLASS IT. 
? 
(In ordor of Roll numbers.) 
Namo. Institution. 
77 Suffee Commercial Colle 
V. Srinivasan ٠ lege. 
Himansusekhar Mukhopadhyay -@ George Telegraph Training Institute. 
Probirendranath Ghosh - Private. 
Benoy Bhusan Das Ditto. 
Mrinal Kanti Bhattacharjee .. Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration. 

Tarak Nath Dutta 2 Ditto. 
Abhoy Charan Pal <7 Ditto. 


439 


436 


————— ee ee 
—— ھےسمخاصس ےچ‎ 


172 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 [Lanr 1 


eS EE -০ ee — eee‏ چےووو سس ٠مف‏ ییست سمسسچچوسارموکےیوے عو گا 
ےہ ہے es‏ سس ےتا ae ec‏ می چکھوں۔ ere‏ 


Junior Book-keeping and Accountancy 


CLASS I 


(In order of merit ) 


Namo 


Deba Prasad Chanda (Jr. B K.) 
Ajay Kumar Ghosh (Jr B K.) 
Krishna Kumar Sarma (Jr. B.K.) 

V. Srinivasan (Jr B.K.) 

Naresh Chandra Gupta (Jr. B K.) 
Benoy Bhusan Das (Jr, B.K.) 
Santosh Kumar Banerjee (Jr 13৯) 


Bolo Ram Paul 

Sushil Kumar Dey 

Pranab Kumar Chattopadhyay 
Amal Kishore Bhattacharjee 
رہ رط‎ Narayan Dutta 
Dinabandhu Dutta 


Institution 


~- Privat». 
Central Commeroual College. 
.. Steno Coach. 
.. Suffee Commercial College 
-.» Lake Commercial Oollege. 
.. Private 
Goenka College of Commorce and Business 
0172ھ‎ 
Commercial Coaching Institute. 
.. Central Commorcial College 
.. Private. 
.- International College of Commerce. 
. Central Commercial College. 
Goenka College of Commorce and Business 
Admunustration, 


CLASS II. 


(In order of Roll numbers ) 


Murari Mohan Adhikari 


Commercial Coaching Institute 


Humangshu Sekhar Bhanja Choudhury Ditto. 


Jogendra Chandra Pal 
Narayan Datta Joshi 
Anath Nath Banerjee 

Dilip Kumar Sinha 
Kishorimohan Ghosh 
Sitansunath Bhattacharyya 
Sunit Kumar Patra 


United Commercial Instituto. 
.¢ International College of Commerce. 
nee Ditto 
.- Institute of Commorce. 
.. Private. 
oy Ditto. 
Goenka College of Commorce and Business 
Administration 


Byomkesh Mukhopadhyay Ditto. 
Shorthand. 

140 words per minute. 
CLASS II, 


Amal Kanta Pan 


Bally Institute of Commerce. 


100 words por minute. 


CLASS I. 


Jyotirmoy Maitra 

Ajit Kumar Chakraborty 
Krishna Gopal Ray 
Jyotirindra Nath Karmakar 


-- Nathat) Chamber of Commerce. 

-. Globe Commercial Instituto. 

Salkia Commercial College 

George Telegraph Training Institute, 


Umaprasanna Bnattacharyya 2 Ditto. 
Nita: Chand Karmakar 7 Ditto. 
Probodh Kumar Sarkar . Steno Coach. 
Sankar Prosad Ghosh Goenka Collego of Commerce and Business 
Admunistration. 
Shyam Kishore Mitra Ditto, 
Shyamapada Ganguli Premier Commercial College. 
CLASS IT, 
Shoumendra Nath Biswas »» Steno Coach. 
Haradhan Chattopadhyay = Ditto 
Sujal Kumar Mukhopadhyay -. Bally Institute of Commerce 
Reba Sen Gupta -. Commercial Institute, Nathati 
Haraprasad Ghosh -. Central Commercial College 
Bhawan Charan De 7 Ditto 
Amuyamoy Banerjee George Telegraph Tramuing Institute. 
Nagar Subramania Parthsarath Privato 


Hari Gopal Chakrabarti 


Biman Gangopadhyay 
Sum] Kumar Mitra 
Sukdeb Halder 
Niranjan Kumar Sen 


Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Admiunistratton 
-. Bally Institute of Commerco, 
.. City College, Commerce Department, 
-- George Telegiaph Traming Institute 
Steno Ooach. 


80 words per minute. 


Sukumar Ray 

Heradhan Chattapadhyay 
Reba Sen Gupta 

Nilratan Chakrabarti 
Haraprasad Ghosh 


CASS I. 


Steno Coadh. 
Ditto. 


Commercial tied st Nathati. 
Park Commercial Institute, 
Central Commercial College. 


ee 


Parr IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


437 


ees, ضر‎ =" s 
——— ্্্্্ল্ল্লল্লশলাললল্্লালললল্ল্ীললল্শীরশীললা ee ہے سے یی‎ ০০০২০ এ ০৯ 


CLASS II. 
Roll No. Name. Institution. 
9 Saroj Kumar Ray ». Steno Coach. 
14 Sujal Kumar Mukhopadhyay *১ Bally Institute of Commorce. 
18 Sitel Kumar Ghosh .» Commercial) Institute, Naihati. 
20 Sheikh Nazar Ali 5 Ditto. 
24 Dilip Kumar Basu .» Commercial Coaching Institute. 
25 Murari Mohan Dan. .. Maharaja Cossimbazar Commercial Institute. 
83 Rabindranath Ray -. C & M Commorcial College. 
35 Debicharan Datta .- Globe Commercial Institute. 
44 Bhawani Charan De .» Central Commorcial Colloge. 
70 Prabhat Kumar Mitra .- United Commercial Institute, Kanchrapara. 
82 Kalidas Ray Ideal Commercial Institute. 
86 Sunit Kumar Ghosh George Telegraph Training Institute. 
91 Amiyamoy Banorjoe Ditto. 
99 Sisir Kumar Pal .- Kidderpore Inatitute of Commerce. 
106 Mahimaranjen Das .. Private. 
106 Nagar Subramania Parthsarathi .. Ditto. 
109 Hari Gopal Chakrabarti .. Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
গু Administration. 
111 Sadhana Debi .. Georgo Instituto of Commerce and Telegraphy 
(Cooch Behar). 
112 Rabindranath Chattopadhyay Nityanands Commercial School, Barrackpore. 
Typewriting 
70 words per minute. 
11 Jyotish Chandra Acharya .. Salkia Commercial College. 
20 Jadumani Mukherjee ۔‎ . Bally Institute of Commerce. 
60 words per minute. 
67 Jyotirmoy Maitra Naihati Chamber of Commerce. 
63 Rashbihari Chattopadhyay Globe Commercial Institute. 
78 Tapan Kumar Biswas .. Premier Commercial College. 
80 Moni Mohan Dutta City College, Commerce Deptt. 
104 Gouranga Chandra Bandopadhyay Popular Institute of Commerce. 
158 Ashoke Kumar Seal .» International College of Commorce. 
167 Tarun Kanti Chatterjee .. George Commercial College. 
172 Rajendra Prasad .. National Techno Commercial Institute. 
1173 Rameshwar Prasad ue Ditto. 
223 Chitta Ranjan Karmakar .- Steno Coach. 
226 Biraj Bhusan Chatterjee -. Prof. Dey’s School of Commerce. 
234 K. Krishna Rao .. Private. 
55 words per minute. 
72 Arun Kumar Mukhopadhyay .. Premier Commorcial College. 
101 Nitai Chand Dutta .. Progressive Commercial College. 
127 Tarapada Ghosal Netaji Subhas Chandra Commorcial College. 
152 Dinesh Chandra Paul .. United Commercial Institute. 
160 Himatlal Nyalchand Mehta .. International College of Commerce. 
178 Purna Chandra Chakravarty ». Ideal Commercial Institute. 
196 Krishna Mohan Saha .. Kiddorpore Institute of Commerce. 
230 Mahimaranjan Das .. Private. 
60 words per minute. 
12 Prosante Kumar Chatterjoe .. Salkia Commercial College. 
22 Sudhanan Chakrabarty Roy’s Commercial School. 
37 Patit Paban Mukhopadhyay .» Commercial Coaching Institute. 
45 Sukomal Chandra Das ». Commorcial and Tolograph Training College. 
53 Niranjan Biswas ve Ditto, 
61 Sunil Kumar Saha .. C& M Commercial Collego. 
65 Sitaram Ghosh .. Globe Commorcial Institute. 
75 Paritosh Sen Gupta . N & B Commercial College. 
91 Chittaranjan Nath .. Central Commeroial College. 
96 Birendra Nath Datta .. Premier Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Chandernagore. 
98 Arun Kumar Datta ». Progressive Commercial College. 
106 Nidhi Ram Mondal .. Popular Institute of Commerce. 
181 Durga Prosad Sinha .. George Telegraph Training Institute. 
205 Dilip Kumar Basu .» Kidderpore Institute of Commeroe. 
208 Subodh Kumar Mukhorjee . Ditto. 
231 Sobha Rani Guha Thakurta .. Private. 
238 Ajoy Kumar De -. Goenka College of Commerce and Business 
Administration, 
243 Panchygopal Chattopadhyay 7 Ditto. 
46 words per minute. 
14 Santi Kumar Palit Salkia Commercial College. 
23 Gita Basu Roy's Commercial ৪০ 
25 Subodh Kumar Chatterjee Commercial Inatitute, Naihati. 
39 Kamalendu Ghosh . Park Commerocial Institute. 
43 Sk. Rafique Hossain om Ditto. 
47 Prabir Kumar Guha .. Commercial and Telegraph Training College. 
62 Niharranjan Das ve Ditto. 
60 Sephali Das .. OC, & M. Commercial College. 
62 Gobardhone Mukherjee .. Globe Commercial Institute. 
68 Parimal Kumar Ghosh Ditto. 
83 .کر‎ 8. Subramanian .. Lake Commercial College. 
92 Sudarsan Dalal .. Central Commercial College. £& 
134 Shyamal Kanti Chakrabarty .. Premier Telograph and Commercial College, 
Serampore, 
154 Jogendra Chandra Pal .. United Commercial Institute. 
168 Shib Prasad Mukherjee . George Commercial College. 
174 Santosh Kumar Das . Ideal Commercial Institute. 
184 Uma Prasad Chakrabarti » ++ Roy's Commercial School. 
192 Gouranga Chakraborty رد‎ Premier Commercial Institute, Ranaghat. 
2604 Subhas Kumar Monda! -» Kidderpore Inatitute of Commerce. 
916 Radharaman 86 -- Hooghly Shorthand and Telegraph School. 
233 Venkata Lakshmana Vara Prasada Private. 
Sarma Behara. 
945 Jnanondra Nath Biswas ৪৪ 


Publio Commercial Institute, Kristinagoro. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


[Fart IB 


& 


Institution. 


40 words por minute. 


Sukumar Deb 

Jyotsna Mallick 

Ranjit Kumar Koley 

Ajit Kumar Santra 
Chiranjib Banerjee 

Shaikh Nazar Ali 

Akhil Kumar Mitra 

Dipak Bhaduri 

Mohinder Paul 

Chinta Haran Daa 

Rakhal Chandra Sen 
Gorachand Sinha Chowdhuri 
Achyut Kumar Bandyopadhyay 
Ajit Kumar Chakraborti 
Jiban Kumar Sinha 

M. K. Sundaram 

Sadhana Mukhopadhyay 
Dhirendra Nath Kundu 


Madan Mohan Choudhuri 
Monica Mazumdar 

Gopal Chandra Ghosh 

Asit Kumar Choudhuri 

Amal Kanti Chatterjce 

Hira Lal Roy 

N. Rama Subramanian 
Sailendranath Bandyopadhyay 
Paresh Nath Chatterjee 
Sanatan Maji 

Ujjal Kanti Das 
Jageshwar Singh 

Arun Kumar Bose 

Sisir Kumar Pal 

Dipti Sinha , 
Tripurana Venkat Rao 
Hashi Das Gupta 

Miss Mandira Sen Gupta 


oon = 


35 words 


Utpala Gangopadhyay 
Biswanath Bandyopadhyay 
Dilip Kumar Basu 
Karunamoy Dutta 

Dulal Chandra Raha 

Gour Chandra Chakraborty 
Prakash Chand Jain 
Uddiyavar Bhaskara Rao 
V. Naratarajan 

T. G. Viswanathan 

Nanda Lal Dutta ے‎ 


Paresh Chandra Bhattacharya 
Parimal Kumar Sarkar 
Aghore Chandra Koy 
Ramakanta Das 

Biswa Ranjan Sen Gupta 
Debabrate Chakrabarty 
Gopinath Bandyopadhyay 


Sunil Kumar Choudhury 
Madhu Sudan Daw 
Tarapada Khanra 

Asit Sen Gupta 

Bipul Kumar Bhattacharyya 
Parimal Chandra Das 
Md. Mazaffar Hassan 
Harekrishna Majumder 
Amal Kumar Sen Gupta 
Pasupati Laskar 
Niranjan Nandy 
Pashupati Dutta 

Dulal Kanti Moharer 
Ram Prasad Mondal 
Biswa Nath Mitra 
Pradip Kumar Ghosh 
Biswa Bijoy Ghosh 


Steno. Coach. 
Salkia Commercial College. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Roy’s Commercial School. 
Commercial Institute, Naihati. 
Institute of Commerce. 
Park Commercial Instituto. 
Ditto. 
سا و‎ and Telograph Training College. 
itto. 
Naihati Chamber of Commerce, 
C. & M. Commercial College. 
Globe Commercial Instituto. 
City College, Commerce Department. 
Lake Commercial College. 
Ditto. 
Premier Telegrapn and Commercial College, 
Chandernagoro. 
Popular Institute of Commerce. 
Stenographers’ Corner. 
Ditto. 
Master Tailor College of Commerce, 
United Commercial Inatit ute. 
Ditto. 
International College of Cominerce. 
Central Commercial Institute, 
National Techno Commercial Institute, 
Ditto. 
Ideal Commercial Inatitute. 
Kidderpore Inatitate of Commerce. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Steno. Coach. 
Private. 
Steno. Coach. 
Ditto. 


per minute, 


Steno. Coach. 
Salkia Commercial College. 
Commercial Coaching Institute. 
Commercial and Telegraph Training College. 
Ditto. 
Naihati Cham ber of Commerce, 
City College, Commerce Department. 
Lake Commeroial College. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Premier Telegraph and Commercial College, 
Chandornagore. 
Ditto. 
Progressive Commercial College. 
Popular Institute of Commorve. 
Stenographers’ Corner. . 
Netaji Subhas Chandra Commercial College, 
Ditto. 
Premier Telegraph and Commercial Colloge, 
Soram pore. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Master Tailor College of Commerce. 
College of Commerce and Technology. 
Central Commercial Inatitute, 
Ditto. 
Suffoe Commercial Colldge. 
George Telegraph Training Institute, 
Bowbazar Commercial College. 
Premier Commercial Institute, Ranaghat. 
Institute of Commerce. 
Grey Commercial Institute. 
George Telegraph Training Instituto. 
Ditto. 
Steno. Coach. 
Ditto. 
Public Commercial Institute, Krishnagar, 


Results of the Government Commercial Course Final Examination, 1956 


The following candidates have passed in Typewriting only. They are entitled to obtain 
certificate in Typewriting ے:‎ 


Roll No. 


15 
22 
34 
38 
61 


Chitta Manjan Roy 
Dipak Kumar Ghosh 
Mir Abdul Wahid 
Naresh Chandre Sarkhol 
Radha Krishna Ghosh 
Ranjit Kumar Das 


90001880505 Paul Chowdhury 


Typewriting 


Name of the candidate. 


Spoed. 
.. 380 words por minute. 


35 words per minute, 
40 words per minute. 
30 words per minute, 
.. 388 words per minute, 
35 7 per minute, 


.- 50 words per minute, 


07 


IB] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


The following candidates have passed in Junior eee and Accountancy only. They 
are entitled to obtain a certificate in Junior Book-keeping and Accountancy:— 


Junior Book-keeping and Accountancy 
Roll No, Name of the candidates, 

3 Amulya Kumar Dutta. 
18 Chitta Ranjan Roy. 
22 Dipak Kumer Ghoth, 
28 Debokee Prasad Bose. 
89 Nirmal Chandra Nag. 
51 Radha Krishna Ghosh. 
52 Ranjit Kumar Das. 
55 Sukumar Paul Chowdhury. 
62 Susanta Kumar Bandyopadhyay. 
65 Shyamal Kumar Sen, 

The following students have failed only in one subject which is noted against their names, 


They are, therefore, eligible to appear as casual students in the Government Commercial Course 
Final Examination, 1957 :— 


Lists of casual students 
Roll No. Name of the candidate. Subject in which fajled. 
15 Chitta Ranjan Roy .. English. 
51 Radha Krishna Ghosh »» English. 
65 Shyamal Kumar Sen »» Economics. 


۶ 0, GHOSH, 


Principal and ex officio Secretary, জল 
Body, Goenka College of Commerce 
Business Administration. 


439 


Registered No. C207 


68211 


THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1956 
—— : ই 


PART IIl—Advertisements, Notices 


Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, oetc., in the 
“Calcutta Cazette’’ (Part 01), 


1, Manusoripts should be properly edited and complete in iteelf. 


2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type- 
written below the signature. 


3. Manuscripts Intended for advertisement In the next Issue of ‘Calcutta Gazette’’ shall be received by Publiloation 
sales Office at New Seoretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Caloutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at Wead Office 


‘at Alipore up to 12 noon on Monday. 
4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the Manuscripts. 


§. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING 
(PUBLICATION BRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


The Press shall not be held responsible for delay In publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 
instructions detalied above. ; 


LICENSING BOARD, WEST BENGAL. ٦ Name of candidates, Passed in classwa, 
Culoutta, the 7th June 1956. 68, Mnahabir Roy ٠ پر‎ ee ivonly, 
Examination tor Permits to Electrical Workmen held in Calcutta 57, *Kamal Ray ۷آ 7 و‎ and vill, 
in April 1956. 68. Prabhat Ranjan Goswami os ~» iii and lv. 
THE following candidates were declared to have qualified 60. Balaram Singh = ۴ ۳ الصہ‎ 


the معملہ‎ or classes of wiring work montioned against cach 


mod holow سے‎ 00, Phani 10181154871 Majumder ٦ مرا رئی.ڈڈ.‎ 
ball مہ0‎ নাতি بس‎ 61, Pankaj Kumar Roy Choudhury .. H(A. C, only) a 
No, 62. Kumud Ranjan Nandi “me «. iv only. 
3. "Raghubat 9081) .. ** +» Vi only. 65. Ramkripal Singh .. 7 . ivonly, 
.؟‎ Raja Rom 39018 ہت‎ si ** কা তামার 66. Jagadish Chandra Chakraborty .. «> lvonly, 
9. Ratan Mondal ۰ ay *.  vienly. 67. *Susnato Kumar Samanto 7 . Wionly, 
10. * Niranjan Kumar Halder es on ۶ 14 60. Subhendu Kumar Biswas 7 ۱۷ 01103, 
1۸." Raladherdha ٠ سی‎ 72. Md. 18ط‎ ٠ 7 .. iv and vi. 
16, *Puresh Chandra Dus a ১5. Vionly. 74. Sanat Kumar Sanyal 2 .. tvonly, 
18. hola Nath Bhaw  .. ee ০5 70. *}ulal Chaudra Guchalt 7 vs Vill only, 
10. Nirmalendu Dutta Gupta a iv 4015, 76. Subimal Ghosh ve ٠ .. ۱۷ only, 
28, Bonvy Bhugan Roy .. 7 ۱۷ 0801. 77, Sewpujan Shaw Ks oe .. | 92018, 
24. Sniloah Chandra Das 7 .. ٣ 0১1১, 78, *Sannyasl 10188]  .. 7 »» ivouly, 
26. *Prahalad Tapadar .. as +» Voaly. 70. °Sk. Marjahau ve ee ee (৬ only. 
26. 73008 Krishna (٣ a .. iv only, 80. *Md. Rabamat Ali... 7 .. | only, 
27, *Bishnupada Majumdar রর .. 10২15, 8৫. Sk. Noor Ali T الا .. و‎ only. 
80. *Schawan Roy 7 7 .. للا‎ (8. ©. only) and vy. 86. Md. Rahul Armwoon .. 7 »» Ivonly. 
81, "Sayed ۵ ۳ he ১৯ Vonly, 87, *Anl! Chandra Bhowmick ws “৯ ivand v. 
32. “Ratan Kumar Ghose - .. ivonly. 90. Auukul Das = ا‎ .» dv only. 
88. Abdul Rauf Sarkar .. 7 ill and %, 01. Kamalosh Bhattacharyya ss -. Iv only. 
80. *Mohan Singh 7 5 .. Iv only, M4. *Batya Prakash Gupta os »+ Ail, tv and ٢ام‎ 
88. *Subrata Chowdhury 7 . Vianly. 97, Narayan Chandra Daa হু ve lv only, 
89, *Kumud Ranjan Chakraborty .. ilt (D. 0 only). টং সিজন سس‎ ৯ ae ই رازہ‎ 
40. *Sanath Kumar Ghosh a il (A. ©. only). 100. Ardhendu Sekhar MukherJeo .. .» ivand vi, 
41. *1inesh Chandra Roy Choudhury vi only. - Paresh Ohandra !ی۵۳۰۵‎ oe .» 8 (০) only 
43. Pranesh Chandra Bagehi 7 »» ۷ا۱‎ 0015, 103. Bikash Chandra 11041 ٠ .. Ma) and Kd), 
44. Basu Mistry 7 ॥ 0, 104. *Benoy 1)10008900 Ghosh Dastidar @.. i(b) only. 
105- Bisha Ranjan Addack 7 ۰ (ھ)ا‎ only. 


48. 10100 Prasad 01000791092 ** 1 only. 


[Parr 1 


Dee ee 
LICENSING BOARD, WEST BENGAL. 


Fxamination for permits to Electrical 
Asansol in April 1956. 


Calcutta, tho 7th Juno, 1056. 
Workmen held at 


_ THE following candidates were declared to have qualified 
in tho class of classes of wiring work mentioned against each 
named below :— 


Roll 
No. 


Name of candidates. 


*Kartick Kumar Mukherjee 


Dulal Mukherjee ait 


. Abdul Hamid ۳ 


810) Kumar Mazumdar 
*Sudhangeu Kumar Roy 


» Ohandra Sen a 
. Phatick Chandra Roy 


*Qopalchandra Pal .. 
Kiron Banerjeo 7 


. Aswini Kumar Mondal 


*Kalipada Tewari .. 


. Bhuneswar Shah _.. 


*Raghunath Sinha .. 


*Himangsu Sekhar Kabhi 
Binda Singh ee 
Santosh Kumar Ghosh 


Guru Brahma Mukherjeo 
Krishna Gopal Majoe 


Sallendra Nath Chatterjeo‏ ۔ 
Ram Bikash Ganguly‏ ۔ 

. Jatindra Nath Saha.. 

. Shyamapada Maji .. 


Suit Das 

*Nani Gopal Sarkar 
Subodh Ranjan Ghosh 
Basudev Chattorjeo ,. 


. Amalendu Kumar Lahiri 


Krishna Chandra Das 
¢Sukumar Chakraborty 
*Debldas Mazumdar 


320 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 

Name of candidates Pasacd 10 classes.‏ تی 
Satyabrata Nos, os s+ 1060) only.‏ .107 
Ram Sagar Sarma ٠ .« {(d) only.‏ .111 
*Bonoy Kumar Chatterjoc bs «» Ia) only.‏ ,118 
Taripada Das ai - -» 108) and 100),‏ .116 
*Ranjit Roy ٦ vs «s 4(b) only.‏ .118 
only.‏ (ج)ا. 7 Surendra Nath Mondal‏ .121 
Bakhal Chandra Pandit ve .» S(a) only.‏ .131 
Sushil Kumar Das .. oF ১৯108) only.‏ ,132 
Tarani Kumar Kar .. ۰ .. (a) only,‏ ,184 
Manmatho Nath Dey “> «» (a) only.‏ .148 
Ram Dular Roy és ne es (a) only.‏ .155 
Sk.Md.Ishaque.. - .. Kb) only.‏ .166 
Nirma) Kumar Mondal es »» 109) only,‏ .158 
Sudhan Chandra Pramanick : 109) only.‏ .160 
Prabhat Kumar Roy ve ১৯:10) only.‏ .160 

161. Birondra Nath Sirear -: »5. 108) and .(ا)!‎ 
162. Prafulla Kumar Malty = .» Ka) only. 
170. *Manick Lal Das ১৭ ee «» fionly. 
174. Santosh Kumar Jana as ~» f(b) only. 
175. Nima! Kumar Chowdhury রা ৮ 168) only. 
176, Chunilal 98107 ** ee «- {(a) only. 
196. Santosh Kumar Pore) oe ৭* 100) only, 
100. Bimal Chandra Chanak “is »- 108) only. 
102. KanalLall Dutta .. - .» (8ا)ا‎ only. 
108. Sujit Kumar 89) ہے‎ ০ ১০100) only. 
201. *Kaenai Lal Pal os oe . ہہ لا‎ 
206. DBasudeb Ghose 7 - . (ھ)ا‎ only. 
207. Panchu Gopal Sett .. a .. 4a) and i(b). 
209. Anil Chandra Sardar ‘a et 108) only, 
211. *Naresh Chandra Makhal ۰ ০5:10) only. 
212. *Badre Alam 7 ae ..» only. 
217. 18195181701) Mahato .. a4 . Ka) only. 
218, Asoke Kumar Chakraborty “a ». 0 only. 


*Candidates hold Workman’s Permit. 


The symbols used to denote the class of wiring work aro 
explained below :— 


Por voltage not exceedsng “Medium DPreasure’’ (Indian 
Electricity Ivules, 1937). 


($) Wiring of buildings (for lights, fans and smal! motors)— 


(a) Cleat, wood casing and capping systems, employing 
wires and cables other than papor insulated cables. 


(8) Metal sheathed, tough rubber and conduit systems 
(also any other system as pormitted under tho Indian 
Electricity Act, 1910, and Indian Electricity Rules, 
1937), using wires and cables other than paper imsu- 
lated cables. 


(8) Motor wiring (including goncrators), in conduit or lead 
shoathed with wires and cables other than papor insulated 
cables. 


(84) Motor wiring with paper insulated cablos (laying and 
jointing). 

(58) Overhead line workgwith cable connections other than 
paper insulated cables. 


(v) Paper insulated cable connections (jointing). 

For “Figh Pressure" voltages (Indian Electricity Rules, 1987). 
(vt) Overhead linos only. 
(vit) Overhead lines with papor insulated cable connections. 
(6181) Paper insulajed cable (laying and jointing). 


B. B. DEY, Recy. 


*Hiralall Singh 

*Ajit Kumar Chatterjec 
Sudhir Kumar Baury 
Gushaipada Bancrjoe 
Gubinda as a 
Bijoy Kumar Roy 
Biswoswar Sarkar 
Bamapada Das Gupta 


. Sudhakar Saha 
*Pabitra Kumar Das Gupta 


Amal Kumar 0:00٥ 
Satyabrata Mukherjee 
*Hongshidhar Ghosh 
*Maogaram Mondal 
*Binoy Kumar Banerjco 


. Pranabesh Banerjee .. 


*Abdul Haque i 
Naku! Prasad Mondal 
*Surendra Nath Sahoo 
*Syed Azimur Rahman 
Bhabani Prosad Ghosh 
Baldya Nath 70 
Naren ChatterJoo .. 
*Madan Mohan Mitra 
Ramesh Chandra Deb Nath 
Ganesh Chandra Sarkar 
*Khudiram Sen Gupta 
91510 Kumar Mitra ১, 


. Badal Chaadra Ghosh 


Passed 1۱۰۷۰ 


100) only. 

iv only, 

lv only. 

iv only. 

ili and ۰ 

|| (1), C. only). 

۲ only. 

iv only. 

{(a) only. 

i(a), 1(b), 11, i and ٣۰ 
ill (a. 0. only) and 


iv only. 
,نا‎ 111 (A. 0. only) and 
7 


vi and vil, 

iv only. 

111 (A. 0, only) iv and 
ড়, 


111 (A. C. only), fv and 


(A. 0. only),‏ الا 
iv only,‏ 
Ka) and i(b).‏ 
v only.‏ 
iv 6,‏ 
i(b) ond ill,‏ 
iit, iv and ৬,‏ 
only.‏ ۲ 
i(b), 111 and ۰‏ 
iv and v.‏ 
only,‏ ۷ 
iit and v.‏ 
only,‏ )%(1 
V only.‏ 
i(a) only.‏ 
Vv only.‏ 
only.‏ ۴ 
and {(b).‏ )108 
and {(b).‏ (۵)! 
f(a) and {(b).‏ 
.00010 111 
and 10),‏ )108 
fil (A. 0. only).‏ 
v only.‏ 
only,‏ ۳ 
and v.‏ 18 
۰ ۲ 
only.‏ )108 
il (A. 0. only) and Ive‏ 
only,‏ 11 
il (4. 0, only) and tv.‏ 
iv only.‏ 
only.‏ ۷ا and‏ )109 ,)108 
(A. 0, only) and ۰‏ 111 
only.‏ )108 
ly only,‏ 
v only.‏ 
and 100),‏ )10 
Iu, lv and v,‏ 
iv only.‏ 
{(b) and |.‏ 


۷ only, 


Pagt IT] 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


821 


মিটি 


Koll 
No. 


119. 
120. 


Name of candidates. 


*Gyan Ranjan Chattorjee 

Bimal Dasa 7 রর 
Subhash Chandra Chatterjoo 
Kodareawar Bhattacharjec 


. Jatindra Mohan Roy Choudhury 


*Dhirendra Chandra Das Gupta.. 


. Amlya Bikash Chowdhury 1 
. *Kazi Makbuol 01 


Manindra Nath Gupta 
Sukumar Chatterjeo 


. Anath Kumar Roy .. 
. Moher Singh 
. Dwarika Roy 


‘Tara Das Paul 
*Anil Baran Chatterjee 
*Madan Mohan Roy 


. Ranjan Kumar Roy Choudhury,. 
. Ajit Kumar Roy 
. Ozagar Singh in +s 


Brahmamoy Bancrjeo 
*Sasndhar Roy তে 
Parimal Mukherjoo .. 


. Amiya Nath Roy 
, dkahaya Kumar Sarkar 


Mrinal Kanti Chakraborty 


. Satya Narayan Mitra 
. Rabindra Nath Bhowmick 


*Dhirendra Nath Bancrjec টন 
*Rampada Thakur .. a 


. Badal Krishna 0 

. Madhukar Wasudeoorao Tak 

. Dharanidhar Bhandary ve 
۔‎ Sundor Lal Tangri .. - 
. Dhircndra Nath Chatterjco eh 
. Ashis Das Gupta... 7 
. Dhananjoy Mukherjeo 

. Kishari Mohan Chakravarti ws 
. Sushil Kumar Boso Majumder .. 


*Rajoshwar Singh 
*Angad Upadhyaya .. 


*Candidates hold Workman’s Pormit. 


The symbols used to donote the class of wiring work are 
explained below سے‎ 


Passed in classes. 


v only. 
১০ Vonly. 
> Sifand v. 
. للا‎ Ss 0. only), iv and 


108) and 10), 
vill only. 
i(a) only. 

v only, 

۷ only. 


5০108), 100) and 11 (D. C. 
ouly). 


»» i(a) only. 
18) and i(b). 
{(a), 10)) and ۰ 
«» Vonly. 
v only. 
$ only. 
111 (A. C. only) and v. 
-- (05) and 109), 
». fvonly. 
111 and v. 
»» 108) and if. 
i(a), ili and v. 
«. Mand v. 
10), ا(‎ (A. 0, only) 
and ۰ 
i(b) only. 
i(a), 100) and 11. 
!ا‎ and .الا‎ 
109) and .(ا)!‎ 
+ 10) only. 
i(b) and If. 
-« {(n) only. 
{(a) and 100), 
{(b), 111 and v. 
181 and v. 
iv only. 
10), {(b) and 1. 
v only. 
109) only. 
ii only. 
fi only. 


For voltage not exceeding “Medium Y’reesure’’ (Indian 
Electricty Hules, 1937). 


) Wiring of buildings (for lights, fans and small motora)— 


(a) Cleat, wood casing and capping systome, 


omploying 


wires and cablos other than paper insulated cables. 


® 14 
(৮) Metal sheathed, tough rubber and conduit systems 
(also any other system as pormitted under the Indian 
Electricity Act, 1910, and Indian Eloctricty Rules, 
1937), using wires and cables other than paper wsu- 


lated cables. - 


(8) Motor wiring (including generators), in conduit or load 
sheathed with wires and cables other than paper insulated 


cablo, 


(sii) Motor wiring with papor insulated cables (laying and 
jointing). 
(iv) Ovorhoad lino work with cablo connoctions other than 
paper ineulatod cablos. 


(৮) Papor insulated cable connoctions (jointing). 


For “ High Preassure’’ voltages (Indian klectrictty Mules, 1937). 


(8) Ovorhead lines only. 


(vid) Overhoad lines with payor insulated cable connections. 


(৮4) Paper inmulatod cablo (laying and jointing). 


13, ,لا‎ DEY, Secy. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION. 


In the matter of Companies Act, 1956 
And 


tn the matter of Debesh Mukherjee & Co., Ltd., having 
a registered offive at No. 8, Hidaram Banerjee Lane, 
0 ۰ 


NOTICE is hereby given that a potition for winding-up 
of the abovenamed Company by the High Court at 
Caleutta was presented to the said Court on 28th May 
1956 by Jagat Chandra Datta akas J. C. Datta, a creditor 
of the said Company, and that the said petition is directed 
to be heard before the Court on the 23rd day of July 1056 
and any ereditor or contributory of the said Company 
desirous of opposing an order for winding-up of the said 
Company under the above Act, should sppear at the time 
of hearing by himself or his Attorney or Advocate for that 
purpose and u copy of the petition will be furnished to any 
ereditor or contributory of the said Company requiring 
the same by the undersigned on payment of prescribed 
charges for ihe sume, 


P. C. BASU, 
Attorney for the petitioner. 


Dated this 2nd day of July 1960, 


Note.—Rule 58 provides that any person who intends to 
appear at the hearing of the said petition must serve on 
or send by post to the abovenamad, notice in writing of 
his intention so to do. The notice must state the name 
and address of the person or, if a firm, the name and 
address of the firm and must be served or, if posted, must 
he sent by 1009৬ in sufficient time to reach the abovenamed 
not later than two clear days before the 23rd day of July 


1956. 
(544—1) 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 27 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 
posts from Indian citizens and persons migrated from 
Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in India. 
or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 
French possessions in India. Upper age-limits relaxable 
by 5 years for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
candidates and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
Pakistan and non-jiberated arcas of Jammu and Kashmir. 
No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and 
will in no case be relaxed bevond three years. Particulars 
and application forms from Secretary, Union Public 
Service Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. 
Requests for forms must اع و‎ name of post and should 
be accompanied by self-addressed unstamped envelope for 
each post at least of size 9"x4” indicating thereon name 
ot post for which formar are required. Closing date for 
receipt of application with treasury receipt or Crossed 
Indian Postal Order for Rs. 7-8 (Re. 1-14 for Scheduled 
Castes and Tribes), 4th August 1956 (18th August 1956 
for applicants from abroad). Commission may remit 
genuinely indigent and bonw» fide displaced persons’ fee. 
Separate application with separate fee required for each 
post. Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper if form 
not available and deposit fee with local Indian ۰ 
If required, candidates must appear for personal interview. 


1, One Lady Medical Officer for Reorientation Training 
Centre at Singur, Ministry of WHealth.—Temporary for 
three years in first instance. Pay:—Its. 375.—25—500— 
75. B.~-30—650--E. B.—30--800. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age:— 
Between 30 and 40 years. Relaxable for Government 
servants. Qualifications—-Essential:—(1) Medical ۶ 
included in one of Schedules to Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1933. (ii) Diploma in Maternity and Child Welfaro. 
Qualifications 17018881719 at Commission's discretion in caso 
of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


2. Four Directors, Smail Industries Service Institute, 
Rajkot (Saurashtra), Patna, Hyderabad and Trivandrum, 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry.—Posts temporary hut 
likely to continue. Other things being equal, preference 
given to Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidates. Pay:— 
Rs. 1,000—50—1,400. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualitied and experienged candidwtes. Age:-—Preferably 
nhove 35 years. Quallfi¢ations—Essential:—(i) At least 
Second Class Degree in Mechanical Knginooring of recog- 
nised University or uivalent qualification. (ii) Ahaut 
10 yonrs’ experience in Government Department and/or 
Kngineermng firm of repute, including about 4 years of 
“Workshop experience” in responsible position. Qualifica- 
tious relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of 
candidates otherwise woll-qualified. 


3. One Statisticlan (Urban Practice Field) in Maternal 
and Child Health Department, All-India Institute of 
Hygiene and Public Health, Galcutta, under Ministry of 
Health.—l’ost بی ابس‎ 4 but likely to continue. Post 
reserved for Scheduled Tribes candidate, failing that for 


322 


Scheduled Castes candidate, failing that too post may be 
regarded as unreserved. Pay:—Rs. 375—25—500—E.B.— 
30—650-—E. B.—30—800. Private practice including 
lwboratory and consultant practice prohibited, Hiyher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:— Between 30 and 40 years. Relaxable for Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications—Essential:—(i) Master's 
or equivalent Honours Degree in Statistics, or in Mathe- 
matics with statistics as special subject. (it) Research and 
‘Training experience in Statistics, Or Training in recognised 
Stutistical Institute. Qualifications relaxable at Com- 
mission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwiso well- 
qualitiod. 


4. One Research Statistician, Indian Council of Agri- 
cultural Research, Ministry of Food and Agricuiture.— 
Post tamporary but likely to continue indefinitely, Pay:— 
Rs. 350—350—380—380—30-—500—E, BB. —770—40 —850. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. If person selected is already in Government 
service he will be entitled to draw at his option his grade 
pay plus deputation allowance not exceeding 20 per cent. 
of the grade pay. Agé:—Below 40 years. Relaxable for 
Government servants. Qualifications—Essentiali~(1) (a) 
At least Second Class Master’s or equivalent Honours 
degree in Statistics of recognised University, or (b) at 
loast. Second Class Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree 
in Mathematics of recognised University with about ono 
year’s post-graduate training in Statistics in recognired 
Institution. (i1) Training in Statistical methods applied 
to animal husbandry, or experience of Statistical work on 
animal husbandry problems. Qualifications relaxable at 
Commission's discretion in case of candidates otherwise 
well-qualified, 


5! One Senior Scientific Officer in Technical Centre of 
01৬11 Aviation Department, Ministry of Communioations.— 
Post permanent but appointment will be made on tempo- 
rary basis in lien vacancy for present. Post reserved for 
Scheduled Castes candidate if such suitable candidate 
mvatlable, otherwise treated unreserved. Pay:—KHs. 
40—1,000— 1,000— 1,060— 1,050— 1,100— 1,100— 1,160. 
Pay of Government servant if selected will be fixed accord- 
ing to rules. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate, Age:—[ielow 40 years. Relaxable 
for Government = servants. Quailfications—Essential:— 
(1) Degree in Engineering of recognised University, or 
Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree in Physics or 
Mathematics or First Class Bachelor’s Degree in Physics 
or Mathematics of recognised University. (ii) About 
3 years’ experience (including research) on Aircraft design 
or manufacture. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


6. One Assistant Research Offioer (Statistics), Central 
kniand Fisheries Research Station, Calcutta, under Ministry 
of Food and Agricuiture.—Post temporary-but likely to 
‘continne mdefinitely. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes / 
Tribes candidate if such suitable candidate available, other- 
wise treated unreserved. Pay:—Rs. 275—-25—500—K.B.— 
30--650-—30—800. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age:—Below 30 vears. 
Relaxabie for Government servants. Qualificatlons— 
Essential:—(i) Master's or equivalent Honours Degree in 
Statistics. or Mathematics/Economics/Commerce with 
Statistics as subject, of recognised University. (ii) Some 
experience of commodity survey and sampling techniques, 
Qualtfieations relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 
of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


7. One Assistant Director for Industrial Extension 
Centre at Roorkee for Mathematical, Drawing and Survey 
instruments, Small Industries Service Institute, under 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry.—Post temporary but 
hikely to continue. Other things bemg equal, preference 
to Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate. Pay:—Rsa. 350— 
450-—380—380—J0—590—E. 10৮৮170-40- 850, Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:—ficlow 35 years. Relaxable for Government servants. 
Qualifications—Essentials—(1) Degree in  Mechanicad 
Kngineering (or equivalent qualification), or in Science of 
recognised University. (ii) About 3 years’ (5 years’ for 
graduates in Science) practical experience in manufacture 
of mathematical, drawing and survey instruments in 
responsible position in firm of repute. Qualifications 
relaxahle at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwixe well-qualified. 


8. One Director of Storage and Inspection, Office of 
Director-General of Food, Ministry of Food and Agricul- 
ture. - Post temporary but likely to be made permanent. 
Other things being equal, preference to Scheduled Castes / 
Tribes candidate. Pay:—-Rs. 1,000—50—1,300—60—1 ,600. 
Thyher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:—Between 35 and 50 years. Relaxable 
for Government’ servants. Qualifications— Essential :— 
(11 Master’s er equivalent Honours Degree in Zoology with 
Kntomolugy as subject, of recognised University, or 
equivalent qualification. (ij) Adequate knowledga of 
classification ntid grading of foodgrains, their sampling and 
analysis. (iii) About 5 years’ practical experience in 
maintenance of quality of large stocks of foodgrains 
(including storage and inspection) in responsible position 
under Government or ا‎ commercial concern of repute. 
Qualifications relaxable at Commission's discretion ih case 
vf candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


THE CAICUPTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


(Pan, II 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 26 


APPLICATIONS are invited to fill a vacancy in the post 
of an Assistant Translator in the lower grade in the 
Hindi and Urdu Section of the office of the Bengali 
Translator to the Government of West Bengal. Appoint- 
ment will he made on a temporary basis in the first instance 
with chance of being eventually made permanent, 


The recruitinent will be made on the resulta of a com- 
petitive examination consisting of two papers, viz., (i) 
translation from Knglish into Hindi or Urdu and vice versa 
(candidates having knowledge of 1১011) Himdi and Urdu will 
he preterred); and (ii) general knowledge. 


2. Pay.—Rs. 125—4—205—5—.295 per month plus usual 
allowances. 


3. Qualifications. — 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of Indian. 


(ii) ۸ Bachelor’s degree in Arts of a recognised 
University. 


(iii) Age not exceeding 25 years on the Ist July 6. 


_ Note.—The age-limit applies to all candidates, whother 
in Government service or not. 


4. Concession in age.—(i) The age-limit is relaxahle by 
5 years for candidatos belonging to Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes and by 3 years for displaced persons 
from Pakistan, 


Note.—(a) A displaced person claiming age coftcession 
must furnish with his/her application satisfactory evidence 
that he/she is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
6.g., reiugee registration card or a certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Membor of Parliament or State 
Legislature in original (with an attested copy thereof), 


(b) A member of a Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes 
claiming ago concession must furnish with his/her applica- 
tion a certificate in original (with an attested copy thereof) 
from a gazetied officer, or a Member of Parliament or 
Stato Legislature belonging to the Scheduled Castes or 
Scheduled Tribes, specifying the particular caste or tribe 
to which he/she claims to belong. 


(ii) The age-limit is also relaxable for non-Muslim 
Government servants in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and wero working 
under the sovernment of East Hengal after partition but 
have since formally resigned their service under that 
Government and have como over to India as rofugee. 


(iii) A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his/her activities in connection with the country’s 
struggle fur independence, not being convicted of an 
offence indicating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a 
concession in respect of the maximum age limit. The 
concession granted will be oqual to the exact period of 
detention, imprisonment, internment or externment suffered 
up to a maximum of four years. ۸ candidate who claims 
the concession for relaxation of the age-limit should 
submit along with his/her application a certificate in 
original (with an attested copy thereof) from a Member 
of the Central or State Leyislature or an affidavit in 
original (with an attested copy thereof) filed before a 
First Class Stipendiary Magistrate by a reaponsible person, 
ae to the period of detention, ete., suffered by the 
candidate, 


(iv) Tho upper age-limit for candidates from Chander- 
nagore who have received their education in Chandernagore 
through the medium of French is relaxable by 4 years. A 
candidate claiming the above concession will he required 
to produce a certificate from the head of the institution or 
institutions countersigned, either by the District Magis- 
trate,, Hooghly, or the Director of Public 17861706107) 
West Bengal, that he is a permanent resident of Chander- 
nvgore und that he had his entire education or most of 
it in the institution or institutions through the medium 
of French, 


In no other casos can the age-limit be relaxed. 


5. Particulars and certificates required.—Kvery candi- 
date shall attach to his/her w»pplication the following 
certificates :— 


(i) Original diploma of graduation (with an attested 
copy thereof). 


(1) Original School Final (or oquivalent) Certificate 
with an-attested copy thereof. 


+ 


PART 11] 


Note.—Candidates whose age is not indicated in the 
School Final (or equivalent) Certificate must submit:— 


A certificate in original (with an attested copy thereof), 
from the Hendmaster/Headmistress of the School which 
he/she lust attended showi his/her exact age as 
recorded in the school register failing which the following 
evidence of age may be considered by the Commission:— 


(a) An affidavit regarding his/her age in original (with 
wn attested copy thereof), sworn by his/her father 
or mother or some other person in a position to 
know by having been present or beard of his/her 
birth at the time of occurrence. 


(b) A certificate regarding his/her age, in original (with 
an attested copy thereof), from a Member of the 
Central or a State Legislature or a gazetted officer 
who must have known the candidate and hia/her 
family, indicating clearly the evidence on the 
basis of which he/she satisfied himself/herself on 
the point. 


G. Applications.—A candidate must submit the applica- 
tion in the prescribed form copies of whjch may _ bo 
obtained from. the office of the Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), Alipore, 
Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a stamped eself- 
addressed large envelope. 


The last date for receiving applications is the 6th 
August 6. 


7. Fees.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions 0 fee of Rs. 5 by سا‎ order crossed and endorsed 
to the Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal, 
or a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury in West 
Bengal or the Reserve Bank of India, Calcutta, under 
1090 = "“'XXXVI—Miscellaneons—Receipts of the Public 
Service ommirsion, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., will not be accepted. 


No olaim for a refund of the fee will be ontortained nor 
will it beheld in reserve for any other examination. 


8. Remission of fees.—The Commission may remit 
genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ fee. 


Note.—A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
by Note (a) under item 4(i) above, a certificate in onginal 
(with an attested copy thereof) from a District Officer 
or a gazetted officer or a Member of the Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he/she is not in a position 
to pay the prescribed fee. 


9. Restriction regarding Government servants.—Applica- 
tions from candidates who are in temporary or permanent 
employment under any Government, a local or statutory 
body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in India will ho 
rejected unless they are submitted through the appointing 
authority of their posta or service. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 2nd July 1956. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE AT 
HOWRAH 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 8 OF 1956 


TAKE notice that an application has been presented 
before this Court by the Debtor, Suklal*Show, Proprietor 
of Firm, Ram Govinda Show, resfding at 73 Bellilious 
Road, district Howrah, for being adjudged on insolvent. 
The application has been admit and fixed on 28th July 
1956 for hearing. 


U. GUPTA, 
. District Judge. 


Dated the 3rd July 1966, 
(549—1) 


NOTICE TO CREDITORS OF THE DATE OF HEARING 
OF AN INSOLVENCY PETITION 


In the Court of the District Judge of Murshidabad at 
Berhampur (West Bengal) 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 2 OF 1956 


WHEREAS Shri Abul Kashem, son of Shri Abdul Mohid, 
of Dheka, police-station Barwan, district Murshidebad, 
debtor-petitioner, has applied to this Court by a. petition, 
dated 25th May 1956, for being adjudged an insolvent 
this is to give tho creditors notice that the Court has fixe 
the 11th day of August 1956 for hearing of the aforesaid 
petition and the examination of the debtors. 


P. C. PAL, 
District Judge. 


ly 1956, 
Dated Berhampur, the 4th July (850—1) 


THE CAIOUTTA GAZETTE, 


JULY 12, 1956 32s 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 2 OF 1956 


Kayum Khon of Sitarampur, police-station Kulti, 


petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has regis- 
tered that application and fixed 2lst July 1956 for the 
hearing thereof, 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge, 


Dated Asansol, the 27th June 1956. 
(537—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE 8UB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 4 OF 1956 


Ram Golam Mistri, son of Jate Monohar Mistri, of Lower 
Chelidanga, police-station Asansol, district Burdwan, 
potitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
been adjudged an insolvent by an order of the Court, 
dated Yth May 1956, passed in the case and that he may 
apply for his discharge within two years. 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the 28th June 1966. : 
(538—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 5 OF 1954 


A, کا‎ Kmght, Locomotive Driver, Eastern Railway, 
residing at 59 Loco Quarters, Asansol, petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner who 
wan adjudged insolvent by an order of the Court, da 
16th April 1955, passed in the case has applied for final 
discharge und the Court has fixed 28th July 1956 for the 
hearing of the application. 


A. N. OHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the 6th July 1956. 
(548—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 17 OF 1955 


Nepal Chandra Banerjee of Nabaghanti, police-station 
Burnpur, district Burdwan, petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
been adjudged an insolvent by an order vf the Court, dated 
Qiet April 1956, passed in the case and that he may 
apply for hig discharge within two years. 


A. N, CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the 26th June 1956. 
a sans 1 کٹ‎ 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 22 OF 1955 


Rasul alias Rosul Mio of Jhingri Maholla, Asansol, district 
Burdwan, petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
been adjudged an insolvent by an order of the Court, dated 
5th May 1956, passed in the case and that he may apply 
jor hig discharge within two years. 


A. N, CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge, 


Dated Asansol, the 26th June 1956, 
(540—~}) 


824 THE 04140774042) JULY 12, 1956 


[Parr 1 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Caleutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and an applica- 
tion for payment of their valuo has been received from the 
person/party whose names are shown against the 
numbers. Any other person/party who consider(s) him- 
selt/themsclves as having a right to them are warned to 
communicate at once with the undorsigned:— 


Register Notos No. Value. Name and address of the 
No. applicant. 


Rea. 


.D.312/55-56 B/6-187178 100 Shri Ranchhoddas Vithal- 
9 | daa, Merchant, 16 Dad 
Seth Agiary Lane, Kal- 


badevi Road, Bombay 2, 


W.D.313/55-56 H/3-868713 100 Shri Suba Singh, village 
(Non-Hindi). Parsa, post 90006 Nau- 
batpur, district Patna, 


W.D.314/55-56 H/3-735678 100 Shri Abdul Aziz, T. No. 
( 


Non-H indi). 207504 Clerk, Labour 
2 Department, Tisco, Jam- 
ahed pore. 


8. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 
20th June 1956. 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of tho following notes of tho Calcutta ofiloe of 
issue are stated to have boon destroyed and applications for 
‘payment of thoir value have been rocoived from the person/ 

y whose namos aro shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himeelf/thomselves as having 
a right to thom is/aro warned to communicate at once with the 
the undersigned :— 


Rogister No. Notes No. Valuo. Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Rs. 

W.D.310/55-56 ..  H/8-210774 100 Shri Gour Mohan 
(Hindi). Dhur, 69 Mono- 
hardass ১৮০০৮, 

Calcutta. 
W.D.311/55-56 .. H/16-134379 100 #kri Anu Majhi, vil- 
(Hind). lago Chandiram- 
pur, post office 
Birohi, district 

Nadia, 


5. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of Indias, Issue Dupartmént, Caloutta, tho 14th 
June 1956, 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and applica- 
0108 for payment of their value have been received from the 
person/ party whose names are shown against the numbers. 
Any other person/party who consider(s) himself /them- 
selves as having a right to them is/are warned to com- 
Municate at once with the undersigned :— 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant, 
Re. 

W.D. 8316/56-56 A/88-440264 100 Shri زم‎ Kumar Jain, 
71-71 Kacha Bagh, Chandni 

(Hindi). Chowk, Delhi, 
W.D. 316/56-656 H/7-910993 100 Shri Akula  Chinna 
(Non-Hindi). Venkatramiah Chetty, 
Shroff Merchant, 

Cuddapah, 

W.D. 317/55-56 و‎ 100 Shri Raj Kumar Jain, 
(Hindi), Kacha Bagh, Chandni 

Chowk, Delhi. 


শি. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issuo Department, Calcutta, the 
22nd June 1956. 


MAHABIR PRASAD CHOUDHURY, ULL.B., intehds to 
be onrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(492—4) 


1, MUKULPRAKAS BANDYOPADHYAY, ULL.B., in- 
tend to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(493—4) 


1, SUKUL PROSAD, L1L.B., intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the High Court at Caloutta. 
(502—4) 


JITENDRA NATH SANYAL, M.A., LL.B., Attorney- 
at-Law, intonds to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, 


Calcutta. 
(518—4) 


I, ANANTA MOHAN GUPTA, B.L., Pleader, intend to 
be onrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


এ (614- 4) 


I, SIPRA GAYAN, LUL.B., intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 
(615—4) 


DINANATH SHARMA, M.A., LL.B.. intends te be 
enrolled as an Advocate im the Calcutta High Court. 


(521—4) 


SUNIL KUMAR MITRA, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 


(533—4) 


I, SWADESRANJAN SARKAR, B.L., Pleader, intend 
to be enrolled os an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(645—4) 

ATUL KUMAR BORAT, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Caleutta. 

(546—4) 


NOTICE is hereby given that SUDHIR KUMAR DEY 
MULLICK, Attorney-at-Law, intends ما‎ be admitted as an 
Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta, 

(551-4) 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 


Notice 


A BRANCH of the Bank was opened at Suri, on the 
4th June 1956, under the charge of Shri N. C. Chatterjee, 
Staff Assistant. 


The following appointments on the Bank’s staff are 
hereby notihed:— 


Shri P. C. Roy Chowdhury, Staff Assistant, to act as 
Accountant, Netaji Subhas Road Branch, Caleutta, 
as from the 10th April 1956, vice Shri FG. Basak. 


Shri N. C,' Banerjee to be Head Assistant, Accounts 
Department, Caleutta Local Head Office, ay from the 
19th June 1956, vice Shri A. B. Majumdar. 


Shri A. B. Majumdar to be Second Assistant, Accoutits 
Department, Calcutta Local Head Office,,as from 
the 19th June 1956, vice Shri R. L. Magon. 

© 


Shri K. S. Basu to be Superintendent, Securitios 
Department, Caleutta Local Head 01600) as from 
the 8rd July 1956, vice Shri T, .ا(‎ Krishnaswami. 


Shri Bimalendra Nath Shattacherjee, clerk, held 
temporary charge of Bolpur Pay Office (under 
Burdwan Branch) from the 8th to the 14th May 
1956 inclusive, vice Shri J. D. Sharma, 


Shri B. N. Bhattacherjee, clerk, held temporary charge 
of Sainthia Pay Office (under Burdwan Branch) from 
the 17th to the 23rd May 1956 inclusive, vice Shri 
8. K. Chowdhury. 


Shri K. M. Roy, clerk, held temporary charge of Jadayv- 
pur College Pay Office (under Ballygungo Branch) 
from the 26th to the 318 May 1956 inclusive, vice 
Shri 8. K. Bosu. 

By order 
8. GUPTA, 
Secretary and Troasurer. 

Dated Calcutta, the 6th July 1966, 

(686-1) 


PART TI] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 926 


ee I at ai Shae EE ete ee ae Fy Ge ee eee a =‏ یچچ ہچ eg aa re ee‏ جج سح سس 


» IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 
AND 


in THE MATTER OF SREE 8۸۷۱ PICTURES, LTD., 
HAVING ITS REGISTERED OFFICE AT NO. 77/1, 
HARRISON ROAD, CALCUTTA. 


NOTICE 13 hereby given that a petition for the winding- 
up of the abovenamed sal etl by the High Court at 
Calcutta was on the 19th day of June 1956 presented to 
the said Court by Messrs. Indraloke Studios Private 1460. 
n creditor of the said Company and that tho said petition 
ور‎ directed to be heard before the Court pn the 6th day 
of August 1956; and any creditor or contributory of the 
said QGompany desirous of opposing an order for the 
winding-up of the said Company under the above Act 
should appear at the time of the hearing by himself or his 
Attorney or Advocate for that purpose; and a copy of the 
petition will be furnished to any creditor or contributory 
of the said Company requiring the same, by the wunder- 
signed, on payment 01 the prescribed charge for the same. 


শা. BANERJI & CO., 
Attorneys for the petitioner 
Indraloke Studios Brivate Ltd., 
8 Old Post Office Street, 


Calcutta. 
Dated the Srd July 1056. 


Noto.—Rule 58 provides that any poraon who intends to 
appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve on 
or sond by post to the abovenamed, notice in writing of 
his intention so to do. The notice must state the name 
and address of the person or, if a firm, the name and 
address of the firm, and must he served or, if posted, must 
be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the abovenamed 
not later than two clear days before the 6th August 1956. 


(547—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1913, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF LAXMI MATCH, LTD. (IN 
LIQUIDATION) 


CREDITORS’ VOLUNTARY WINDING UP 


NOTICE is hereby given that the Adjourned Genoral 
Meoting of the Share-holders and the adjourned meeting of 
the Creditors of the Company shall be held at the office 
of the Liquidator on Saturday, tho 21st July 1966, at 1 p.m. 
and 2 p.m., respectively, to lay before the meetings an 
account of his acts and dealings ond of the conduct of the 
winding up during the preceding year and a statement in 
the prescribed form containing the prescribed particulars 
with respect to the position of the winding up. 


B. 8. KOTHARI, 
Liquidator. 
7 Hastings Street, Calcutta. 


Dated the 9th July 1950. 


Note.—Particularly to tho Creditors Shri Pannalal 
Singhwmna, Shri Girdharj Lal Agrawalla and Janaki Prasad 
Shroff, who havo not submitted their addresses in India 
and Noormahamad Rahimuddin whose address is not known 
to the Liquidator, 


(552-1) 


FISHERIES AND INDUSTRIES, LTD. 
160 BOWBAZAR STREET, CALCUTTA 


NOTICE igs hereby given of special resolution passod in 
General Meoting on 24th April 1956 that the Company for 
want of funds be voluntarily wound up. 


নি. .کا‎ SAHA, Liquidator. 
23/۸ Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. 


Dated the 4th July 1956. 
(541—1) 


TO ALL CONCERNS 


11111 RAMESITWAR PRASAD BHAGAT, B.Com.. 
1১14 15.) AC.A., son of Shri Jogeshwar Bhagat, of village 
Kkdara, police-stntion Colgong, district Bhagalpur, now 
residing at 70 Cotton Streut, Caleutta-7, in an affidavit 
sworn hetore thd Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta, on 0 


June 1956, has expressed his desire to be known as Ramesh. 
1 


war Prasad Jaiswal hencetorward. 


BAIDYA NATH SINGH, Advocate. 
(542—1) 


The 30th June 1956. 


NOTICE 


IN THE MATTER OF SHAREHOLDER'S VOLUNTARY 
LIQUIDATION OF GUELDNER ENGINES 
(DIESEL) CO. (INDIA), LTD. 


AT an Extraordinary General Meeting of the abovenamed 
Company duly convened and held at the Registered Offico 
of the Company at 9A Dalhousie Square Kast, Calcutta, 
on the 25th June 1956, the following Resolution was duly 
passed as Special Resolution:— 


‘Whereas negotiations with Principals in Germany for 
manufacturing Diesel Engines, the only object with which 
the Cumpany was floated fell through; 


And whereas it has become unnecessary to continue the" 
business of the Company: It 18 Resolved— 


‘That the Company be wound up voluntarily and that 
Mr. S. ہا‎ Vohra be appointed Liquidator for the 
purpose of winding up and distributing the ougets 
of the Company’.”’ 


GUELDNER ENGINES (DIESEL) 00. (INDIA), LTD. 
9۸ Dalhousie Square East. 
Calcutta, the 28th June 1956. 
(5643—1) 


GOVERNMENT OF (INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Roading Rooms and the Lending Section at 13601590019 hnve 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1953. The 
revised working hours are specified below:— 


Reading Rooms— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 
Sundays and holidayea—10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 


Lending Section— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—l0 a.m. to 5 p.m 
Sundays and holidays—l0 a.m. to 1-90 p.m. 


The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, bow- 


ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
yoar:— 


(1) Republic Day, (ii) Independence Day and (iti) 
سب‎ 8771৫170118 Birth Day. 


Porsons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which 1s a free lending Library open tw 
any one residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security’ in cash is essential. 


B. 8. ۰ 
Librarian. 
Belvedere, Calcutta-27, the 6th March 1954. 


begistered No. C207 


۱ THURSIAY, FULY 12, 1956 
سس سے سے ہپہچ-‌عًٍٹتٹژتژثتکعکسسکسہ‌ِِؤھسیےیعچۓبہہٌّچٹچٹٹ  تژ-سہس---ھھجچو٘سچچوبسپكۃىیہ٭ے-ے۔۔۔‎ 
PART Y—Acts of the Parliament of India assented to hy the President 
and Ordinances promulgated by the President 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


Ministry of Caw 


The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the 
President on the 2186 May, 1996 and is hereby published for 
general information : -ے‎ 


AGT NO, XXII OF 1956 
THE INDIAN RED CROSS SQCIETY (AMENDMENT) 
ACT, 1956. 


[2156 May, 1956. ] 
An Act further to amend the می‎ 165৫ Cross Society Act, 
1920. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows :— : 


1. This Act may be called the Indian Red Cross Society Short title. 
(Amendment) Act, 1956, 


2. Sub-sectior' (9) of section 1 of the Indian Red Cross Amend- 
poof 1920, Society Act, 1920 (hereinafter referred to as the principal ment of 


Act), shall be omitted. © section 1. 
3. In section 5 of the principal Act,— Amend- 
ment of 

section 5. 


(6) for the words ‘‘shal], within six months from the 
commencement of this Act and subject. to the con- 
dition of previous publication,, make rules for the 
management, control’, the wards ‘‘may, subject, 
to the condition of previous publication, make 
rules for the munagement, functions, control” 
shall be substituted ; 


(b) in clause (6)১ the word “‘anc 


shall be omitted ;, 


'' occurring at the end 


139 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12,.1956 


[Part V 


সস —————— ےںجس_ٔىسىےے‎ 


Amend- 
ment of 
eection ৪, 


Amend- 
ment of 
pectson 9 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 21, 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 12. 


Insertion 
of new 
section 13, 


Transfer of 
rty to 
Palistan. 


(c) after clause (e), the-following clause shall be inserted, 
namely :— 

“(eé) the powers exercisnblé by the Managing Body in 

supervising the activities of Branth Committees ;’’. 


4, In section 8 of the, principal Act,— 
(৫) in sub-section (A),-« 
(i) the words “or in any part of Pakistan’’ shall be 
emitted ; 
(৮) after the expression ‘‘clause (a) of section 7’’, the 
expression ‘‘and section 13” shall be mserted ;.’ 


(b) in sub-section (2),— 
(t) the words ‘‘or Pakistan’? occurring in both -the 
places shall be omitted; 


(it) for the words ‘‘third column’’, the words ۸0 
column’’ shall be substituted: 


(c) in sub-section (4), the words ‘‘or any part tof 
Pakistan’? shall be omitted. 


5. ‘In section 9 of the principal Act, after the words ‘‘or 
body’? where they occur for the first time, the words “‘whether 
constituted in India or in any other country’’ shall be ingerted. 


6. In section 11 of the principal Act, the expression “for 
which the corpus or income of the property vested in it under 
clause (9) of section 6 may be applied under the provisions of 
section 7’’ shall be omitted. 


7. In section 12 01 the principal Act, after the expression 
‘rules made under section 2. the words ‘‘and the powers of 
supervision exercisable by the Managing Body thereunder’ 
shall be inserted. 


8 After section 12 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be inserted, namely :— 


“13. (1) notwithstanding anything contained in this 
Act, the Managing Body may, from out of the 
funds specified in column 1 of the Third Schedule, 
transfer to the Fakistan Red Cross Society the 
amounts specified in that Schedule as being the 
share of the Pakistan Red Cross Society which 
that Society has agreed to receive for being applied 
to the purposes for which they were held by the 
Society. 

(2) Upon the transfer of such amounts to the Pakistan 
Red Cross Society under sub-section (7), the 
Society shall be freed and discharged from all 
obligations imposed upon it by or under this Act 
as in force before the commencement of the Indian 
Red Cross Society (Amendment) Act, 1956, or 
under any trust or other document in respect of 
anything to be done in Pakistan or in any part 
thereof.’’. 


Part V] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 181 
————————————————————— ee 
9. -For the a thé principal Act, the following Substitu- 
Schedule shal] be fubstituted, namely :— টিপ 
for the 
oxisti 
Schedules. 


THE FIRST SOHEDULE 


(See section 7) 
Ubjects to which the funds uf the Society may be applred 


(1¥ Aid to the sick and wounded members of the Armed 
Forces of the Union in accordance with the terms 
and spirit of the Geneva Conventions of 12th 
August, 1949 and discharge of other obligations 
devolving upon the*Society under the Conventions 
as the recognised auxiliary of the Armed Forces 
Medical Services. 


(2)«Aid to the demobilised sick and wounded members of 
۱ the Armed Forces of the Union. 


(3) Maternity and Child Weltare. 
(4) Junior Red Cross, 
(6) Nursing and ambulance work. 


(9) Provision of relief for the mitigation of suffering 
caused by epidemics, earthquakes, famines, floods 
and other disasters, whether in India or outside. 


|) The establishment and maintenance of peace among 
all nations in accordance with the decisions of the 
International Red Cross Organisation. 


rl 


(8) Work parties to provide comforts and necessary gar- 
ments, etc., for hospitals and health institutions. 


(9) 'The expenses of management of the Society and its 
branches and afhliated societies and bodies. 


41) ‘The representation of the Society on or at Inter- 
national or other Committees formed for further- 
ing objects similar to those af the Society. 


(Lt) The improvement of health, prevention of disease 
۱ and mitigation of suffering and such other cognate 
objects as may be apptoved by the Society from 

lime to time. 


189 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 [Parr ۲ 
س0 7 -[جمئ]ۓ>ے.ے.]-؛ںب.+۷0/] |]6“ںۃ۹ ٭۷۳۷ی۷َٔ,666۹+پ]‎ 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
(See section 8) 


Statement showing the approximate percentage of the clasm 
of the States to the income of the property vested in the 


Society under*elause (b) of section 0 


Approximate peroen- 
tage of clamm on the 
Name of States. es স্ A ra خسم‎ 
under clause (5) of 
section, 6, 
PART A STATES 
Andhra 8-18 
Assam $ 1 49 
Bihar... 6:88 
Bombay 7 ৮ 1049 
Madhya Pradesh 7 5-98 
Madras 3 % 53 
Orissa ٠۰٠ ae , ۱ 2°02 
‘Punjab * 0 8 
Uttar Pradesh ٠ ; pa 23-69 
West Bengal ٠ ۰٠ 5 1 
PART B STATES 
Hydetabad © - ও ۱ ' 4-78 
Jammu and Kashmir ٠ ۰ 1-35 
Madhya Bharat * 5 os 5 4°43 
Mysore .. ৫ ৪ on 000 
ئ‎ and Fast Punjab States Union ৪ es 2.৮ 
Rajasthan ee ٠ 5-26 
Saurashtra ee ee . 8-93 
Travancore-Cochin te ১2 
PART C হক দিও 
Ajmer ٠ہ‎ ve oe 84 
Bhopal ٠ ٠ ৪৪ 43 
Coorg .. os ee 14 
Delhi... 7 ve ৪ 681 
Himacha! Pradesh ee bs -7 6 
Tripura on ee re 7 200 
Vindhya Pradesh .. ‘a -7 7 এটা 
100 -00 


» 


সি ১ ১ ১১১১১ 


pap) THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 189 
THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
(See section 13) 


Statement showing the share of Pakistan Red Cross Society 
in the funds specified in column 1 
ররর مو --+سمححجمسحصحصج--بعحتتحصععددیپک‪‫_ک‫دت‫و‌ُیچپپپپپپچپہوبو-حسع-د-س-سجوسعو.-ت--فسوجبتوصدت.-حصدصجت‎ 
Balance payable 


Amount advanced to Pakistan Rod 
Name of*the Fund from which transfer ShargofPualostan (09 Pakistan Red Cross Society 


28 to be made, Red Cross Cross Society  4n recurities at 
Society agon = tp to 81-12-52 ০০৪৮ and cush 
30-68-48, as agreed upon. 
1 9 3 4 


RN সপ পপ 
Rs. a. 09, Re. & p. Rs, مھ‎ p. 


Indian Red Croes Society -. 41,74,208 6 8 4,04,348 13 65 37608.868 8 10 
Indian Fé@rces’ Medical After-Core Fund, 181,232 14 0 1,30,000 0 ©  3,61,232 14 @ 


Lady Chylmgford All-India Matemity 91,225 0 0 8,186.13 0 83088 ৪ 0 
and Child” Welfare Bureau—Army 


Child Welfare Fund. 
Veggoria Memorial Beholarahips Fund ,. 1۱,88,060 4 0 18,395 8 O 1,865,273 12 0 
Total .. +. 49,380,335 8 3  5,60,031 2 5 43,69,404 5 10 
Add—Amount duo from Assam Red Cross Branch .. 7 7 36,351 0 0 
4405,1606 5 10 
Deduot— Amount due from West Punjab Branch of the Pakisten Red Cross 5,543 0 0 
Net amount payable to Pakistan Red Cross Society 7 700200۴ 570 


Add--Interest eared on the securities in the share of the Pakietan Red Cross 

Society from 1-7-48 to tho date of transfor after udjusting intereet on 

8 amount due from the West Punjab Branch of tho Pakistan Red 
0060, 


1+ ب ب۶‎ 2 0َََ٘٣٤ ۶۶ 
K. Y. BHANDARKAR, Secy. 


Registered No. C207 No. 28 of 1956 


*THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1956 


| 


CONTENTS: 


Pages. 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West 
Bengal for the week ending the 28th 
June 1956 ea ae ea 401—402 


List of Government Promissory Notes, ete., in 
the Custody of the Reserve Bank of India, 


Calcutta, on the dlst December 1955 .. 403-477 
Calcutta Improvement Trust—Notification .. 478 
SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 


Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 
Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 28th June 1956. 


Summary.—During the weck under report thore was rainfall in thirty-five subdivisions. The weather conditions were unfavour- 
able in twelve subdivisions. Transplantation of Aman and Aus continuing in some subdivisions. The condition of the standing crop 
was on the whole fair. 


The fodder was reported to be insufficient in eighteon subdivisions and cettle-diseaso was reported from six subdivisions. 
The wages of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight during the week under report. 


Total The minfmum 
rainfall oe of coarse Character of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder Cattle. Labour waure 
Districts and during rice in seers per weatherandits agricultural opera- seed, ifany. thestanding condition. disease. without food, 
subdivisions. the rupee. 6 on the 64008, crops 
week, eo" standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous outéarn). 
week week. 
1 2 86) 5৪) 4 6 6 ۲ 0 10 
24-Parganas. 
9 800 2 2 Favourable .. Cultivation Sufficient .. Fair .. Insufficient No report Rs. 1-8. 
নি progreasing. 
Diamond Harbour 0°45 115/16 115/16 Not goods. ا‎ seed in Scarce . Do ডি Ditto .. Dito .. Ba. 1-8 
Barrackporo e¢ ৪৪ 8 1/16 2 1/16 ta e@ as ae ee se ae 
206 ٠ “79 2 2 Yavourable .. রস রি trans- Insufficiont Not good .. Insufficiont No report .. Ra. 1-12, high. 
0101411014 
۔اسد کم‎ 
٠ 2 Ditto .. Cultivation Sufficient .. es Ditto .. Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 
Basirhat ۰ 3 41 115/16 پا سم‎ 
এ uf blo Seed bed Ditto e ee Ditto ee Ditto ve Ra. 2-0 h . 
Bongaon 7 1-40 2 2 Unfavoura preparation . high 
continued. 
Nadla. 
Sadar 1 96 1 14/16 2 18110 Favourable যায Fair Sufficient Reported Re. 2-0, high. 
opera 
continued. 
Ranaghat »> 118010 116/10 Ditto Weedin: Sufficient Do. Ditto No report Ra. 1-8 
suspended 
Murthidabad. 
Sadar 212 115/16.116/16 Not good Khatiff in &ufficiont Fair Ruffictent No report Re. 2.8, norma. 
progress. 
Favourable . Aman = sow) Ditto Do. & Ditto Ditto Ra, 1-4, 
Lalbagh 64 1 76 116/16 2 8৮011) mewn oe ink 
continued. 
٠ 1 Land re ۴ Ditto ee Do. ৪৪ Insufficient Ditto ve Ra, 1-4, 
Kandi 7۰ 1:00 2 1/16 2 2/16 07700017818 ار کا اس‎ 
Jangipur , 1:80 118/10 114/16 Favourable .. Seed bed Ditto .. Do. .. Ditto .. Ditto .. Bs. 1-4, normal. 
/ preparation 
continued 
Burdwan. 
Sadar یی‎ Qe@d 16/18 115/40 Favourable ., پت تی‎ 8000۱08۰ .. ক Insufficient ve Ra. 1-12, normal, 
suspended 
Asansol Ae 27 2 010 2 0 agen enen ৬৯৩৬৪ es an -۰ 7 
: Favourable .. Land prepara- Sufficient ,. Fair .. Sufficient No ٠ ; 
Katwa _. 0°60 114/10 2 ‘on নি | report Rs. 18 
Kalna এ 0°61 114/10 1 14/16 Ditto es Weeding  pro- Nitto .. Do. oe Ditto .. Ditto .. Ba. bd, 


gressing. 


102 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JDLY 12, 1956 
سمل‎ =. পা 
an mt ie po gece Ct ter of 9 d progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodd 086৮6. Labou 
5 oe coarse jaracter age and ]) er a r wages 
Districtaapa =—s during Hoe im seers per weather and its agricultural opera- secd,ifany. thestanding condition. disease. without fond. 
subdivisions. the rupee, effect on the tions. orope 
week eo otanding crops. (estimated 
This Previous outturn). 
week. week. 
i z 8(a) 8৫৮) 4 & $ ۲ ৪ 9 10 
Birbhum. 
Sadar ve 1°13 116/16 116/16 Favourable .. ‘Trans রি Sufficient .. Fair .۰٠ Unsuffoient Reported .. Bs, 1-8, normal, 
continued. 
Rampurhat ہہ‎ 0-86 114/16 116/16 Unfavourable মল ts Scarce ‘ot Do. ‘.. 88 No roport .. Ra. 1-6, 
man 
continued. , 
Bankura. 
Sadar 7 1-86 2 2/16 2 2/16 Favourable .. Land pre ৪৬ -7 Sufficient .. Reported ., Ra. 18 
tion continued. 
Vishnupur 7 0:81 2 1/16 2 1/16 Cloudy ee Ploughing and 90581019800 .. Fair aa Ditto .. No report .. Ra. 1-4. 
manuring ০00. 
tinued, 
Midnapore. 
Sadar (North) .. os ছু 2 1/16 aa ۰ Sufficient .. Fair م‎ .. Sufficient .. No report ,. Rs, 1-8. 
Sadar (South) .. x پا‎ 2 1/16 “a oe ee ‘a os a ٠ 
Contal ae 0:22 2 115/16 Cloudy ee 7 wa mes Insufficiont Reported .. 7 
Tamluk 8 1۰47 115/16 2 Favourable .. Seed bed under . os Ditto .. No report .. Ra, 1-12, high. 
preparation. 
Uhatal ۰ 1-06 116/16 2 Ditto +i ই sang এ রর কর Ditto .. Ditto .. Ba. 1-8. 
Jhargram ৬৪ ہے‎ 8 1/16 2 2/16 ee ee -۰ ee ee 7 টা 
Hooghly. 
5835 os oe 118/16 113/16 Favourable .. Land prepara- ٠ os Insuiticiont No report .. Ks. 1-10. 
tion completed. 
8868 ‘a 1-72 112/16 6 Ditto , Weeding iu, Not good .. Sufficient .. Ditto .. Re. 1-10, 
greeeing. 
Arambagh a 0-96 115/16 115/16 Ditto নি سو سے‎ Sufficient .. Fair ৮৪ Ditto .. Reported .. Rae. 1-0, high 
2 ٠. 
Chandernagore «» 212/16 113/16 Ditto -- Aman seed bed Ditto .. Not good . Dit .. No report .. Rs. 1-10. 
preparation 
continued 
76188. 
Badar rr 5 116/16 115/16 Unfavourable ae Suficiont .. Not good .. Sufficient .. Noreport .. Ra. 1-8, 
beria -7۰ ae 115/16 0 Ditto . Pre fon of Soarce oe Ditto .. Insufficient Ditto .. Re, 1-4, 
i ۱ Anan seed bed 
going on. 
Jalpaiguri. 
Sadar oe 15-23 114/16 N.R. Cloudy 7 oe - রে Insufficient No report .. Ba. 20. 
Alipurduar : *, 7°98 118/16 6 ae =e wi oe Ditto ہہ‎ Ditto .. Re, 20. 
Darjeeling. 
Sadar 7 و‎ 110/16 111106 011 Intercultural 85861086108 .. Fair ৮০901601006 .. No report .. Ba. 20. 
operation 17) 
maize  conti- 
00160. 
Kurseong -» 16°40 112/16 112/16 ও 7 of Ditto .. Do. as Ditto .. Ditto .. ملا‎ 20 
8 
vegetable P 
continued, 
Siliguri oe 18:94 115/16 2 Favourable. শপ of Ditto .. Do. ** Insufficient Ditto .. Bs. 2-0, 
n 
bed continued পদ 
Kalirpong .. 890 115/16 116/16 Ditto Millet মা Ditto .. Do. .. Sufficient ., Dito .. Ba, 20, high, 
10 
و بد‎ +n 4°04 118/16 114/16 Favourable .. n _trans- Sufficient .. Fair ». Sufficient .. No report .. Ra, 1-2, 
ate 
و‎ k. 
, 
West Dina)pur. 
Badar “a 8°15 114/16 116/16 Favourable .. ھی‎ bop a Bufficlent ., Fatr Sufficient .. Reported .. Rs, 1-10, normal. 
Aman  guing ; 
on. 
Raiganj <7 4°05 113/16 116/16 Ditto we 2 Dito «২ Do. ‘a Ditto No report .. Bs. 2-0. 
Gooch Behar. 
Sadar os -7 114/16 6 ss on oe ৪৪ iis an 2 
Dinuhata ہے‎ 10°76 118/16 114/16 Favourable .. 7৮৩ Sufficient .. Fair .. Sufficient .. No report .. Re, 1-12, high. 
Taan ٭‎ ۵ 
ing continued 
Pe os 12/16 Ditto »» 8008 cro Ditto ٹہ‎ Do. aa Ditto .. Ditto .. Ra, 2-8, high, 
Mathabhanga 112/16 112/ » high 
rain. 
Meekliganj eu ou 1 15/ 16 2 Ditto ee Preparation of Ditto ee oe £ ৬ ee Rs, 1-13, 
Aman land 
continued. 
Tuffangun} ..« ee 114/16 114/16 Unfavourable pomp planta- Insufficient Not good .. Insufficient No report .. Ra. 2-0, 
Dg on. 


N سم‎ 0 report. 


ও. N. MUKHERJEE, 


Calcutta, the 4th July 1956. for Director of Agriculture, West Hengal. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


সা (وسے سوسیے--۔٠×"کک ےہ‎ জপ 


ee | পপি سے‎ 
aes মস De ey ہے سےے سے‎ সি محمد‎ ৩৪ ১৪৯ کر‎ এস জি এদিন 


— ewe ہے‎ সমস - 
[সি ea افج[‎ 


ee hae 


403 


List of Government Promissory Notes, etc., in the Custody of the Reserve Bank of 
India, Calcutta, on the 3lst December 1955 


CONTENTS 


WEST BENGAL. 


The following list of Govornment Promissory Notes, etc., in the custody 
ofthe Reserve Bank of India, Calcutta, on the 81st December 1955, deposited 
under paragraphs 101 and 108 of the Government Securities Manual, 3rd 
Maition, by 0151) Officers in West Bengal, ia published for the information of 
officers concerned, Any discrepancy in the list should be brought to notice 


promptly سر‎ 
INDEX. 
Name of the Admlnistrator, Item No, 
BANKURA. 7 
Head Master, Zilla Bohool .. oF 7 ee 1-8 
Magistrate oe os eo ৮৪ oe 8-4 
BIRBHUM, 
Qivil Surgeon, Birbhum and Honorary Secretary, Victoria Memorial 
Scholarship Fund ৬০ ee os ee & 
Vollector and 01 Surgeon es oe ee 6 
Magistrate oe oe ৪৬ we ve 711 
80015181078) Officer, Rampurhat oo ee ee 12 
BURDWARN. 
Chairman, Burdwan Municipality ee ee oe 18-16 
Uhairman, District Board .. -۰ ae we 18-35 
Collector ৬ ee ৬৬ ৯৬ oe 88-40 
District Inspector of Schools ee bes oes 42 
District Magi atrate ৬৬ ৮৩ ee es 86-87 
Secretary, Burdwan Municipal High School os ae 17 
Subordinate Judge a ক wa রা 41 
CALCUTTA. 
Administrator-General and Official Trustee, Weat Bengal ... 58-56, 1858 
Assistant Director of Public Instruction, Bengal ... 5৩৬ 180-39 
Assistant Director of Public Instruction for Muhammadan 
es Bongal ans vee ese vee 60-63 
Assistan tary, Government of West Bengal, Home 
(Publicity) ار سی پا‎ চক oes vas 1854 
রে এ of وو‎ 0০১০ ۲ کت‎ caste, on 
Chairman, Christian Bunal Board... oe an 64 
Chief Electrical Inspector, ০৪৮ Bengal ۰ one 1873 
Chief Engineer, Public Health Department, Bengal - 1857 
Chief Engineer, Public Health Engincering, West Bengal _... 1855 
Chief Inspector for Women’s Education ane -۰ 182 
Chief Inspector, Secondary 10000086101, Weet Bengal 4১৪ 43-52 
Chief Judge, Court of Small Causes... ace ee 186-00, 1858 
Chief Prosidency Magistrate ina 7 wee 184-856 6 
Collector ৪৪৪ oes 555 veo .ہہ‎ 111-16, 1859 
Collector of Excise کت 7 حم‎ 7 168-78 
Commissioner of Excise, West Bongal ... 88৪ নর 117-19 
IMnilssioner of Police... wie oes 7 10 
স্পা 
puty Commissioner of Police, Headquarters... ov 369-71 
Deputy Director of Industrics (Training), West Bengal me 183 
2৮1 nes 1ا‎ of 7755 مھ ۔ مس سو ما‎ 
Director of Administration and Accounts of Transportation, - 
Government of Weat Dengal wen wee eat 556 
Director of Cinchona, West Rengal ہی‎ 8 7 188 
Director of Hoalth Services, West 73084 = we = 21-20 
Director of Industries, Woat Bongal ہے‎ - i 1860 
Director Land Rooords and Murvoys, Allpore یہ‎ 7 175 
Director of Movoments, Civil Supplies, Bengal... oe 1962 
Director of Public Health, Bengal ৮৮ see ous 1861 
69 


Director of Public Instruction, Bengal me a 


INDE X. 
Namo of the Administrator. 4 ৬ Item Noe. 
0۸10۸۷7۲ A—cond. 
Director of Public Instruction, West Bengal see yen 140-45 
০৮৮8 Rationing = پوسیشت‎ cum سے‎ es 72-75, 1808 
Director, School of Tropical Medicine ie ae 348-97 
Director, West Bengal Fire Services ... 27 ۸_ے مہ‎ ۵٥ 
Executive Enginecr, Bagjola Drainage Division ... eos 1897 
, Executive Engineer, B. E. College, Construction Division... 167,1879 
Executive Engineer, Calcutta Construction Divigion নি ons 1885 
Executive Engineer, Calcutta Electrical Division ... eve 1864 
Executive Engincer, Canals Diyision ... ina aaa 146-49 
Executive Enginecr, City Division _... ese vn 1868 
Bxecutive Enginecr, East Circle, Public Health Engineering ... 1880 
Executive Engineer Howrah Construction Division’ = 1804 
Executive Engineer, Kalyani Building Division ... - 10 
Executive Engineer, Kalyani Diviaion ae diate coe 1882 
Executive Enginoer, Kanchrapara Dévelopment Arca Division 407 
Exeoutive Engineer, North Calcutta Division Ken “6 1865 
Executive Engineer, Suburban Division (W & B.) Department 1895 
Exccutive Engineer, Weat Circle, Public Health Engineering ... 1889 
Executive Engineer, Weatern Electrical Division ... sey 1866 
Garrison Enginver, Calcutta Division ... met ea 1892 
Headmaster, Hare School ... ৮৪৯ مہ‎ eos 160-55 
Headmaster, Hindu School new any one 157-66 
Headmistress, Sakhawat Memorial High School for Girls 25 156 
Inspector of Anglo-Indian Schools, West Bengal ... -۰ 179 
Inspector-General of Police, West Bengal ৪৪৪ eee 174 
Inspector-General of Prisons, Bengal __.. hey «ne 176-78 
Inspector-Genoral of Prisons, Weat Bengal aad asa 1867 
Inspector of Schools, Prealdency Division এ ons 180-81 
Joint Secretary, Government of West Bengal, Department of 
Food, Relief and Supplies (Food Branch) eee 722110, 7 
০০০০০০০১০৩২ 
Labour Commissioner, Government of West Bengal sie 1881 
Lady Principal, Bethune College ean +i এক 191-97 
Manager, Government Quinine Salo Depot one aan 1888 
Managing Director, West Bongal Financial Corporation one we 
Medical Superintendent, Lady Dufferin Victorian Hospital  .۔.۔‎ 1886 
Municipal Magistrate one oda wee ৪৪৪ 108 
Official Assignoe 7 aon ave دوہ‎ 199-208 
Official Recelver, High Court ax ave aoe 218-70, 1868 
President, Calcutta Improvement Tribunal ow om 550-1062 
President and Secretary, Stuam Boiler Commission, Bengal ... 271 
Principal, Bengal Vetorinary College ... 55৪ eae 272 
Principal, Calcutta Madrassa xs sen iat 273-38 
Prinoipal, David Hare Training Oollege wg ” aad 288 
Principal, Goenka College of Commorce and Business Adwéinistra- 
tion টা ae awe one 289 
Principal, Government College of Art and Craft... 405 
Principal, Lady Brabourne Collego —... owe 7 287 
Principal, Medical College ... و‎ vr Pe 200-319 
Pyinolpal, Nilratan Sircar Medical Collega 7 7٦ 489-95 
Principal, Presidency College ans لم‎ ৮১৪ 324-42 
Prinoipal, Sanskrit College eee one wee $43-66 
Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Departmont ... রর 820-28 
Registrar, Calcutta University “ny ves ৮৪৪ 867 
Secretary, Bongal Christian Family Ponsion Fund 7 868, 1871 
Seoretary, Board of Revenue is vee oy 1878 
নন of ee وت‎ Socloty for Prevention “si ০ এ 
Animals কক “xs 422 
Scoretary, Government of Bengal, Department of Ciyi] 091 $00-404,1876 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


INDEX, 


Name of the Administrator. 


HOWRAH. 


08811711681) District Board 


Collector 


Head Master, Howrah Zilla Schou} 


Magtatrate oe 


eae oes een aoe 


Magistrate and Prealdent, Literary Association 


Principal, Bengal Engtneering College, Sibpur 


Subdiviaional Officer, Uluberia 


Surgeon-Superintendent, Howrah Genera] Hospital, Howrah . 


Tru Nd ٦ 
و سا‎ the re N. Basu Knylish Schuol Fund, ue Magistrate, 


۸۱۰ 


Commissioner, Rajshahi 1) 
bee শামা کک‎ i : 7 পি Ivision, and Surgeon-General ৮101 


Deputy Commissioner 


MALDA, 
Collector ৬৪৩ 6৪৪ eae eee eee 
MIDNAPORE. 
Ohalrman, District Board... ese ee vee 
Oollector pon eos one aoe ee 
Executive Engineer, East Midnapore Division... evs 
Magistrate ose eee ese eee نذا‎ 


President, Maternity and Children Hospital,‏ وہ سس جج 


¢e ৬৫৪ ee eee oe 


President, Governing Body of Midnapore College ... دہ‎ 


President, Managing Committee of 21110877015 Collegiate School 


Subdivisional Officer, Contal ene ৬৩৬ oe 


Subdiviaional Officer, Ghatal ove eee ৬৪৪ 


Tuberculosis Association, P. De District‏ امام سام متا 


MURSHIDABAD. 


= 
= 
J 
e 
اب‎ 
a 


Chairman, Berhampore Municipality ہہ‎ 


Chairman, District Board... ৪৬৪ রঃ 7 

Chairman, Jangipur Municipality aes ৪৪৪ وو‎ 

Collgctar a eee pea avo ৪৪৪ TT) 

District [098 ade ane oe হজ ۰ 
- 

eee eee ese 26‏ را د سح 

President, Board of Trustees, Kriahnath Colluge .. = 


Secretary, Hospital Vommittoo, erhampore, O/o Olvil Surgeon 


404 
ee aT a NSO SES en 
INDEX. 
Name of the Administrator, {tem No, 
Secretary, Government of Bengal, Finance Department es. 481-82, 1869 
Secretary, Government of Bengal, Judicial 70007625906 483-85 
Secretary, Government of Bongal, Judicial and Legislative 
Department eee ese eae ang 487 
Secretary, Government of Bengal, Revenue Department ای‎ 57 
Secretary, Government of Weat ian Agriculture and Co- 
operation Department ... 2 “ae 7 204 
Beore Government of Weat Bengal, Commeroe and Industries 
مم بس‎ Gea ov6 rYy | eee 416-21 
Becretary, Government of West Bongal, Finance Department 
(Au dit) ৮৯৪ aes een pes 918 
De t 
ا تو ساسا 0 ا یج‎ এ 206-11 
Secretary, Government of West Bengal, Judicial Department 486 
Secretary, Hindu Family Annuity Fund, Lid... نہ‎ 160, 0 
59681, State Soldiers’, 98108” and Airmen’s Board Bee 1887 
Secretary, Vangiya Sanskrita Sikha Parishad... Pee 872-87 
Becretary, West Bengal Legislative Assembly _.... ove 1891 
sige gg and Senlor Accounts Officer, Damodar Valley Corpora- ise 
ace Gee Ove gee ean 
Sheriff of Calcutta ৬৪৪ eee eee Cry) 68 1874 
Shipping Master eee aes eee ৪৬৬ 4838 
State Commandant, West Bengal 81008] Volunteer Force 
Directorate ese aoe eee ane 1806 
Superintendent, Governor's Estates, West Bengal re 1899 
Superintendent, Medical College Hoapitals a .. 507-45, 1872 
8 tendent, Medical College Hospitals and Seth Sukhlall 
“9-20 Memorial Hospital تھ‎ bee eee eee 646 
Superintendent, Mental Observation Ward, Bhowanipore ___... 548 
Superintendent, Nilratan Sircar Medical College Hospitals... 496-506 
8 tendent, Seth Sukhiall Karnani Memorial 
نب 0 اسر‎ ৬৪৪ ese een 640-55, 1884 
91187788089, 
Commissioner, Chittagong سید‎ ase Surgeon-General with 
the Government of Bengal oe ee 409 
DARJEELING. 
Chairman, Darjeeling Municipality ےس‎ রর সি 410 
Deputy Commissioner ae os ae ae 411 
President, Lewis Jublice Sanatorium Committee .. ii 412-15 
Secretary, Lewis Jubilee Sanatorium .. টার on 1875 
HOOGHLY. 
Chairman, Bhadreswar Municipality ہس‎ = is 557-58 
Ohairman, Champdani Municipality ০৭ ws es 1063-66 
Chairman, District Board, Hooghly .. be - 1067-89 
Ohairman, Hooghly-Chinsura Municipality “3 ae 1090-04 
Chairman, Kotrung 7+17 oe os ৬৪ 547 
Ohairman, Koanagar Municipality ee ee 5০ 1095-97 
01%11 Surgeon, Serampore .. oe وھ‎ me 1098 
Collector, Hooghly ৪৬ ae ae «+ 1099-1110 
CoDector, Hooghly, and Inspector of Schools, Burdwan Division 1141 
Commissioner, burdwin Division ee “ - 14 
District Judge, Hooghly ae ee ee ৬৬ 1115-19 
Loeal Agent oe ee ee -۰ nee 1120-21 
Magistrate ese see aes eee eee 1122-329 
Magistrate and Chairman, Dufferin Committes ০, 1180 
Managing Committee, Konnagar Government 4450 H. E. School 1131 
Mutwali, Hooghly Imambara ৪৪৫ aie a 1199 
Princizal, Hooghly Mobsin College nee ave রর 1183-40 
Becrotary, Imambara Hoapita) Advisory Cummittee, Chinsurat, 1141 
Bub-Judge, 8:0 Court mee بی‎ ৪৪৪ eae 1160 
8০০ udge eee wah aa me 7 1149 


Subdivisional Officer, Serampore wae 


1142-48 


Becretary, Managing 00000166605 Borhampuro Dispensary نم‎ 


Item No. 


1151-75 


1176-70 


1180-81 


1162-85 


1186 


1187-89 


1190 


1112-18 


119] 


1102 


1193-94 


1195-1218 


1219-26 
1228 


1280-82 


1227 


1238-86 
1237-41 
1242-48 


1244 


1280 


1245-44 
1247-48 

1249 
1260-52 
1253-69 


1260-72 
1273-76 
1277-70 


1281 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


INDEX. 


Name of the Administrator, 


NADIA. 


00081770805 Birnagar Municipality - 
0٦1٥50, District Board... was 
Ghalrman, Ranaghat Municipality ee 
Chairman, Santipur Municipality a 
Collector ove 5৪৪ ant 
District Inspector of Schools, Nadia... 
District Judge ہس‎ ees ৮৯ 
District Magistrate oes - 
لوم 1ڑ‎ Master, Krishnagar Collegiate School 
Principal, Krishnagar Oollege ১৪৪ 
Principal, Kishnagar College and Collector 


24-PARGANAS. 

Additional District Judge .. ৪৪ 
80101010108) 101801166 Judge, 2nd Excra Court 
Obairman, Baravegar Municipality oe 
Chairman, Barulpur Municipality ae 
Chairman, Bagirhat 71 - 
Chairman, District Board ... ৯৯৪ 
Chairman, Garden Reach Munk ٣: 
Obalrman, Naihat! 27 7 11 নি 
Obalrman, Rajpur Municipality ‘as 


Item No. 


1282 
1288-85 
1286 
1287 
1288 
1280-02 
1208 
1207-09 
1204-06 
1300-42 


1848 


1470-71 
1472 
1849-52 
1868 
1355 
1863-67 
1356-61 
1362 
1869 


INDEX. 
Name ef the Administrator. 
24-PARQANA$—contd, 
Civil Surgeon ২, 24 oon 
Oollector eae زرل‎ eos 
Collector and Diatrict Judge “a 
Collector, Wards Department wen 


Oullector and Superintendent, Politica) Pensions 


District Delegate “ai ৪ 
District Magistrate oe ve 
District Judge... one os 
District and Sessions Judge oe 


lst Additional Sub-Judge, 24-Parganas 

Head Master, Barrackpore Government School 
Head Master, Baruipur H K. School... 
Hoad Master, Barasat Government School 
Head Master, Guvernment High School, Tak! 
Magistrate one eee ৬৩ 
Becond Additional District Judge eee 
Secretary, Anglo-Sanskrit School, Harinav! 


Secretary, Zoological Gardens, Alipore ... 


Special Land Acquisition Judge ons 
Bub-Judge, lat Court ee ee 
Sub-Judge, 5th Court ১৪৪ vos 
Subordinate Judge, 4th Court ove 


Snb-Judge, 6th Court we ee 


405 


Item No. 


1844 


17-6 


1807 
1408 
1409-11 
1194-06 
1368 
1412-68 


1469 
1476-77 


1479 


1864 


1478 
1488 


1489 


1497-1852 


1490 
1491 
1492-08 


1478-75 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


406 


000 


00002 


002 


00৫1 


004 


fooysg تر رھ‎ 17৯ 


ZT‏ چودچووہی؟! uvaping‏ چ 20158۰-10 3005(8 pang‏ سے 
ozs‏ 
od Ot‏ ** ریمع pang PSY‏ = 
os‏ 1 
۴و Seq “N° “~~ onid ٠‏ سم نی بس 
৪ §‏ 07 لے 3৬১০০‏ ہار رز یک এ‏ 
“aBaping 18 1۲85 esog‏ 
4০ *£41;ed po‏ ت٭7 ہ1د٭ دہ ০০০ م٣9۲ jo‏ 
০৪৯০৪ etysysequd ০০] 0৮০০৭ “এজ gt‏ سم ید 
soe ১1১11: “wysindwey‏ 
aun 4iesuedsig 3sqindueg ‘12009 feuoiyajpqng 32‏ 
dpyurvjoqog soyivy *** oid "1‏ = 
9911103" ?000 
fiwuedsiq লগা) 1308 ০৯ ANI or‏ 
eve "৪9720‏ 
HIG 6‏ _ ٭٭ “MOD [ভয়ে 0৯০ হজের‏ 
aes‏ 
چ8 95871 ese‏ یئ 62317 ese eee‏ 
vee £ 50075 ٣80:7 lrepanssiey‏ 


we 31৪ چرہ٭ھ-‎ এগ °* 20৭28 ‘au Ete 


es ? ‘pong ‘unqang ০০০৪৪ 


® 
E 191০ 080801: 5358 110 00 5০7০0 & 


vee “7 চে ہر0 0ی26 وودتد(0نگ'‎ তে 
۰ SOP, [Vous وخ 00385598“ 8 ؤ[8]:0093٭‎ 


“চে 12091 30৭ 
we poom aor 6۰8 


old ক‏ ٭٭ usy iw”‏ ج0 00بت 20(7810]مر 
ক ০০০৫1)8 jujsequpajg ۰ wnyqueq'nendieg ¢‏ ۱ 
@ 
oes‏ 
1d z‏ *** چ٭× 3917 ce PUN [Vourey,‏ 
vee স্টার 1৩০০] 07‏ 
এ‏ تروع ‘sews‏ چرچ UNTO ueqnyg ‘jooqog‏ ۲9۵10111075 
چو۔ 
16-00 
UsoORyl “41198 81 (09101‏ 
4৯০0 JO‏ ٠ہ‏ ىہ 3৬৬৭ ০০৬,‏ 2191 ٭ ৪০৪‏ 


“On 
00 PUN; 20 0083৯0 OG} مر‎ OMEN 2092] oy JO 901  ححمو‎ 


407 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


০ 


£ 


3 $33 


203 oma و رہ ورہدہ اہ‎ LTRS 
ج05 رہ57‎ ০০4 4০ Spedqey 
AqMICTONDG ৪.১৪০7০ qeqpeunuadg 


pang puading (0০5 01105 
Pang تا 00161010 .9150 ر۷0‎ 0 


۱۵036 (3ا۔ 


padi‏ ؟ 


°° یں ت ভে curey)‏ 7 901 
°° 64770958191 یں با راو pung‏ 


“puny 


dyyarsoyog mang ”روح‎ 0৮০ ** 


“potty drys 
SELON, sofsoqyHpE এভঘএ 8 
“puny [32 


"5231368 183.44 « 0052 পর 
owe <pusy এগ [যয Krepuaceg iojsodeay ۵ز‎ 
‘ata ping *sj00qog 


Dang INI 9901810 FFT OPUTN Jo 


*5267 
JO SFI ON WME BUY ও ৪০০০ 


“ou ‘oofioqqnn uty” fuvyd "গর 


“pang 
এও ٭ ٢ہ د( ہ0٣ 0إ‎ 78٥ے‎ 
PUN] 2,537] 1860 5 


۲1106 
"۵61907006 IVSeVVAPIA )18 891 
“pung এ 50915 01 
শুভ) رر‎ wg انل‎ 


‘pong Arssuedagq aquired) 


prog 2d [PsfawyAAVYyD auapmg ٭وکعددعوہ*‎ PING 


میعو 


20729 


07 
onid 


Uta 
‘aspar 6 1۶0 686 


rd 
ord 


avaping ৩০৪১০) 


oF 


puny مت‎ Aresusdsiq mdipnn ৮০ nid 
puny তাত 1۴ا3۴ ع73ا۲۳۳۰‎ °° 001 
تک‎ 9:0301) +1 ٦10718جچ‎ *** oid 

“puny 0 7 
9৭57157803০ اب این‎ Te نات و‎ 
puny 8237, ا۶ت ۲ )08203991 1ک‎ *** 0" 
৪৪000 18 ۸2988053085101 20598 ×× ord 
2ک‎ 09030510۲ জনও *** 01 
یں‎ ও], এও  ئئاائ سواہ رز‎ oud 

*mndqiwnydos 1۰ Ares 

শপ জণভ]াওঘঘ) ڈ5 صوتھ‎ 
۹ WL Ne sway ٭‎ 07710 
pung 29073, fiesuedsiq Ipuyy ٥ onid 

“pound 
Way divusedsq এ ছিটা ** 0 
pang Jeniy [তেন গাও fe” oid 
PUD, IIL ی‎ 45৪০৬ °° "07 

نے 
গুহ‏ ٭٭٭ JIeasavy‏ :٥د۸۲‏ ت1 
puny fivsuedsiq welzivy ৭০৯ "000‏ 

“4108 
ی0 لت-‎ আনছেন.) weiseqy *** 07 
41esuodetq mdieumy ٠٭٭‎ onid 

MIT [৩৩৪৩ 


"ava ping 


ٹا نا 


ین 


45 


oa 8 8 


8 8 S 


ঈ‏ ڈ5 8 ؿ er‏ و 


9 ت‫ ردعحت* سی مور دو [দাওনা aindivuary ‘piwog‏ وو مأد- 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


408 


“10907, 


a 


৮০ 
17 


“590 8 


Tyg একতা yqpag *" FG‏ ((ددٹککم 
pu ** oni‏ چرعوں fog‏ 
“OPTSED‏ 
quejsjey ‘req ট্রয়) ony ** ovid‏ 
ভাট ‘wary‏ ; 


“Ro  یوجودورجرعری‎ pay 
"OD ৬৫৮ چو عسجودد‎ 192৩০] FujaoynwyY 39 


see puny [seq ioquiy *** 01 

৮৯১৫১ چرمیئت:جحہط'‎ 

today ০৬০], 2৫০৭] “#903 

Pua 2900. ۲۶۳۷٣٢ ۱5۶ 58, Jo ১2০ ৫৮22)‏ ہہ 
০3715‏ میں v9 pung jaqjareqg vuysyy‏ 
"puny‏ 

WIL YIVS(ey چم نترب‎ *** Conia 
eee pung ۶وہ‎ 9819৩0 *** 0-031 
pung 708 "8৯ তে *** 611 

৬3০০ 1৬71৩০7 ৪৯৫৪৮: 

714 Weqry ‘se; 

-89 0 Pivog 


“°° [577৫8০1৫9৫৮ 5০3০৬ 73০1 4909018০300 90019100020 


: دہ رو٭-‎ ‘pawog 
0 7০৬০০151508. Uwe) (Wing دو٭دص تک و٥ جو‎ 
وجب ہر لہ[ با“‎ ৪০৩৪ 
201]001708,ہ‎ UsUN HV ০৩৬৪ ** IG 
“diysiqoqog 
0 ٠,9]] ا808‎ 0৪৯ *** Ostia 
*** 000 diqswoyog pnuqep ** 001 


yea 
وت‎ ٤ পেজ uspew 
ج8]87 2لا“‎ এত wopwn0ysuy 
(মুগ PE jG) 1485-1-41 ت٠‎ 


"০২ ছি ১০০০০০২ = ‘uoR 


৮৯৯০০ POXLZ Puy ujequig -904595] oqng Jo ২4৯০0 


: ‘mop 
pang 01৪99 WN مر وچ ممجرہ‎ 41588 


2003۸ ان آ0‎ ١ je 
* pang 50430 aujwmay (৪০০, 0900,1302) শু; وہ‎ Limaloeg 


جو مببزددررت2 TWINS‏ 


০ ১ ہے‎ ০০ “°° aNd 
“SBS 65 
"eetlsqAN I چو‎ wipdayjws *** Od 
“SUIS 23013070 
47554 8৭.) iuquvysiey *** ০770 
১০১৬৫ 


[91১0‏ نے سوا ہیس 
0۳]ک وید رفی- 0تاح یتح WEN 3০0‏ 2211950193 


“Ios ঠা 


“PIS 2155৬ 95011. 12593-0101 woqu مم حود وہ‎ 0 


০০ ৮৪০) JO 50824 8) Jo ”چم بمٗردوہچرہ وی چرووںہ‎ YT JO EL 


9“ 
ঠ৪‏ 
وو 
و 
۶۲9 
لت 


CN 
১০০] 


409 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


eucoap 


یرہ ریب 


গুহা ৪ 


بن ننیوف 


উপ হি‏ دہ 


০০ 


esesceo 


er |‏ چو 
৭8967‏ 0-07 
2০ ? تی٣ % ৪‏ 3۲ 


و وحم 


ےو ھ ھ 


ہہ ٢٢ھ‏ 


eeoenane 


ssactes 


sesses 


ভক্তি 


ےچ و ےج 


eetene? 


و٭ھ ہ 


peepee 


চি 


eetese 


ভগ ক 


> Teves 


১০০০ 


৩৪৪৬৬ 


”ہوم وہ 


جت 


مب 


ھ ےھ 


50715304500 301+7, ۴۶۲۰ may  "٭‎ NG 111 


"Of 80109], F yodsuely 5৬ * HG Lol 
ce 3ج0‎ 10090371 peace * ond ৪07 
০০০৬, پوزہ+ع<چ- پر‎ - ond 90 
*৮ ×چو رو وم‎ শু چر و-‎ * ond vet 
٭ ٭ ہ۲ 1نا 5055 وی‎ MiG Sot 
ے۴‎ 9৬টি ModsuBIL yeuquig ٭‎ 01 807 
৪৯০৫27০০1৯0 یہی جج ور‎ ٦ ond Tot 
ঢ0া2ক০৫১০০ $১০৫৪০ড3], مر(‎ " 6 "801 
মি a "OO Pra * Cid a 
٠ے‎ oosusyg 15019 usfiy پکوبہ-‎ * ০৫70 a 
~~ 49595 podsuviyl ورد ہر‎ * ১৫৫1 i“ 
> জরিপ 9210 ل9‎ 
"0D و‎ 4yoquiqeyy * 05470 96 
5020282010113 05 1ئ‎ ¥6 
"* "OO % AACN seoqn “Ag ٭-‎ 0 ১১৫ 
টি ০৪০৭0 "সর "৪138 " nnd 56 
Asussy نین‎ ond 16 
seo OS * Cid 08 
০ oid * 68 
"OD F sug * ond 9ع‎ 
dynquiqegg dowmose ۱ 9970 4s 
“00 - whey Xr * ৮১১৪৫ وو‎ 
ییووہ * " حہج٭ەآصر٭! ہل-سصمألمتر وہ ے‎ ৪ 
০৮ আ্মুসুও 0755 ‘WO ٭چوزہ- جددہ‎ # od وو‎ 
Dow ৪৩০০০, pezy رب‎ ٠۰ ond 6وج‎ 
ومووی9ہ-‎ InoqeT ক ر90 0دو‎ 
moa, 95900. ঢা «S/R “ 01 38 
409 009010ت٭‎ mug ~*~ og 18 
DNs 90ا‎ 5903 515 +1 oe 
یں‎ 90 7 md ‘HV ord 6 
০0 % 408 “জু প্থু ٦1 SL 


چچودیدد- ۱ 
ওএস] “**‏ یتے 19ہ “সর‏ 85018" 


آرودگیود" 


OF রি 
“ঠা ودتدرجدہ'‎ & 


$ 
wh 


7৪৪০৪ جج وومدہ*‎ [SUV ayy [8০৭ 39১4৯ ‘JOWAIKI ৪৫ 
দু 


"PRY یا90 ۲81190ز‎ এ 


3099 ہو‎ 7821240] 
TOs وہ‎ 35900 IO 


"ON 


৩০ [ছা‏ ور روہ Jo ৩০০৪ 5029439্ঘত টে‏ روہ Uosied‏ ہ2 punj‏ ہہ 


জজ 


۰ 
চি ০৯০০ ৯ চাপ ০-9১ ই, 2 
= مھ‎ 


সপ pete 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


মি ০০০০০ 
nD ea aaa As ERS کم ووسوو۔‎ × 


410 


oo7'st 

০0০৪: 

ন্‌ چو‎ 
ا‎ 9-1 
০৬, 


ro পুজা তু, .یو‎ আছ) FANG گ0 جو‎ StI 

Prasroyes এঘপেওয়র [5001 *" OF ১৪ 

7ھ" “কাব হু) ৮০০১৪‏ تو 
ay 2‏ عگردوئ “pung‏ 

eurutg Hit 1۲230010 ONG ort 
“puny تہ رن و‎ ০১৪ ہے‎ 

Wig, آغخرومە۔‎ [wed WM og OTN rt 

“pany ২7070 “[esusey 78244 * 

গার [wows 0101٣ [31505 চাকু ۲٥١8ےک‎ jo 1 "0٤ 

=< [০০7৭ ievelg seipuy lis ٦ mand 6st 

Me] HOSEL, ہي رھ رس‎ ~*~ od + St 

১11১০১৫১১০১ ১৫১৭ 

০৫০৪0 Ivuny wey 0 L&I‏ جو 

ار 601 Teper JOU‏ ہیں 

ات 0 সপ‏ راف ال 

eoqur yey ٭‎ 60:00 ২51৩৭ ~~ Hd vst 
“pang 3318 7 

mpeye 372৮0 100 0605৩ ع۱‎ :.. Id est 

= "1০০৯৪ 2(تتمسد‎ ٦ 013 للخ‎ 

- [epee 1ء 0000ء‎ oid 1st 

“puny ওর ‘{eBueq ‘uo1nonneay 

fepoulsR 1 সপ از ا‎ সহ Jo ০৭০৬ ۲ 7 Ott 

নল ك5‎ 5 8115... ONG 6st 

iii 0ء‎ 9,1৬৩ 0) ov sel 
puny ০7০০ 8205 7 

yO আহা پ3٭::]8]] بت‎ " oid ৮৫ 

111 ১০1, 8২৮৭ ٭‎ Od Ost 
*MNJO} TUS ۰ ل*‎ 7 রে 

“I ‘Kf peq % JO 90৬00 * Olid cst 

** 0ح‎ WIN PPH 93৯০ sg ٭‎ Ovid EI 

eee এ৬৫93-৯5039 “VY bsusoq ٭‎ e ond ے٢‎ 

৮‏ (0101:0400000د3) 
cet‏ 67 ٭  wpusy) qwyqy‏ دہ 


۱ قدر*‎ say ‘eBueql 8৯ *৪৯১৭.১০৩ 
oImg ‘Gad হুড wpusye সু৬ yo 205 ٢ 


১১1৫৫, 
“2৯০০০ PUNT Koy og 9০1০৭ JO ১৫০৭৪ মেক্ী PFT 


“‘gIopOWIFUOD “py 


‘su0g 1=pUus 385 fFvusy few ٭‎ ০970 آ1"‎ 
"লু “OD و‎ Mat) ٦ اف‎ 14 ert 
1 الاجا برر یج‎ 

‘PIT ی رحدتجتۃ: رجہ‎ wane “Wry مز‎ sJeucweyaME) LIT 

ort‏ 617 ٭- 3000 s seqreg‏ داوج 
“FOPUd |‏ 

durjg ৩9130 “yy wjuweng ٭‎ OnkKl ett 
“sansvaly “Amyp 

nog) soy iJeuny vipuamg *** 1d ett 

"* ھتہ جاوومجادد‎ 0৪০7৪ : ٭‎ 0 ett 
“3370 “200٥ 

dawg  ‘Weyey> ٭۔٭ چرجتعچیئ‎ oid Bir 

Ie ۳ھک(‎ ‘soap wef 570১০ Jo 5080) 1٤ 

eee 3(1008508231تھ‎ 891 ele 0771 ri} § 4 


পপি 
‘“(qoueIg ৮০০৪), ৯৬ 
pus pin ‘poor 9 
quauljivdad سن زی‎ 
1وج‎ “op Avaedoy Suoduey jo نمدضملامو‎ ‘Are}2I00g 1 


“quan ৪1 1890070] 
"17 316৩8 sos یس‎ ہ٠‎ 4১850 10 ‘on 
WO PUDJ JO UOHad 943 JO ৩008) 08338750100 ৬৯ JO ওয়েছ ا" ں چ8‎ 


এ‏ ا 
0)0 


ah fet: 001 
| 00 (171 
| PAN 3 01 


1 ا‎ ae 
ا‎ 
2 ۸ 1144 


7 
1017 
fice 1 
WN, بش‎ ts) 
8 
৮51১4 
0 
ا‎ 
ن10‎ 


' 
৭1 
0٦ 
9 


2 


i 1 


0 itt te 


0 8 
00 و 0 
7" 1 
0 0 


419 


SUPPLEMENT TO TITE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


000°TO'IT 
"00.0 ھ٤‎ 
00094 


000°80'9S 
00062 


006 ‘FF এক 


0. ھ٣‎ 


“8961 “00 ۱۷9303 1৯918. “109৩ 


Jad ح‎ jo poug 8০1762৬গ0 ٠٭‎ Od Ite 
"Sool 2০ jesuaq 199.4 
“309০ Jad ¢ JO puny Buus ~ ‘ 0117 om 
"$961 0৮০ ভন 9 
33 $ JO prog Woy : Ong 602 
"961 USC] دی 3ئ‎ 1979.4 
৮709০ Jad ₹ JO pung 2010815 - onid 805 
09957 ৯৫০৫ ০৮135 ~*~ 07170 LOE 
] 0ے“‎ "g ہر‎ 
دجمتوؤ+-‎ Jad Eo jo pung وڑکاانڑھھ‎ ٠+ “Aud 902 
“30902245020 "€555098) 
رن و ہج عو :پا روز‎ ০58৯] 3834, ০ 
jad & مز‎ puny 50195729৩৫0 جا سپ ا سد‎ 002 


SnpyeqseRR ৯2077728458 ‘|eSusq 89‏ 7ح“ 


10110۳ 00 “PT yuvg pay JO 209 0003940 78 "٤ 

Hla) ‘esaug 279 wipusedyy ٠٭‎ 033 £06 
‘ae fopdma 

0গ07৯৯০0 ‘faqng بەقھء‎ ++ 601 203 
"g ‘ON 6ءء‎ 

02[ 0117 ’°° ]80903098980 )70200039801 کچ90 
“٦8003٣7‏ 01“ 

22023 %0020.:৯৯,92) 80905079৯4৮ ٠٠٠ ۱ئ‎ [11০4 

“ভাগ্নে یہک‎ 0092835943০ 7 


915000۳۲ PUNY sarosoy 599৯5 «VANE چوورووجہ'‎ [5750..,667 


no 
Tesous) IBY C_osy 0 پر تقرعوتعجد'‎ পি S61 


dygarepoqog ۶۶2884014 **" OIE £61 
"৮ pung fog amg trejnuTys ۱۸ 60116 967 
paag epg ء۱۴۹١‎ ween ٠٠ ODE ات‎ 
ঘর): $07৬১০৪) jo 

eqgeytg sity Causes [05 *"* OIC +817 
puadig >0 visiqecuy *** 01 ৪97 

"pung পা) 4 
ns ong MGT Ug) عو نس نپ‎ Ost 287 


উস “৪৪০১0 

এ wnqweg sunqieg ভগঞল্যত apey 61 
ےو ای تس‎ suqsyy jTysag °°’ 037 آ06‎ 
JAG 255 00050 টাচ آ8" ک0‎ 


52০‏ ر+زدعجوہ- 
‘aspur eA «ast‏ مسر হেত jo‏ پیر٭دجدہع FL]‏ چ ৩০‏ 


7038 ST 4830701 
"Preyq জন و مع‎ WOga ود وہ‎ 36 “ON 
BO PUD JO 0098৩ ayy مر‎ SUEY 9 JOFETISIUTUIPY উর 50 suey 1০৪ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1958 


414 


٠ 004 ٠ ٠ ٠ soy بعد چرمبدں‎ "- od oF 
00০ ee ee on ee ee ৬৯ ক oe 009০ ৬৬ سے‎ ۱ ও 2007, “যাও এও 3৯০৫] °° 0 یق‎ 
000 se ea ea ee es ee ee ee 11181 2s “se iad alg ০০৫০৫ (4 اپاینیٹجن‎ rea 01 بن‎ 
008 ١ ٠ ٠ 002 ڈوو‎ ৩5৩৬৮ ۲01107 ০10 হত 
2500010 500ا ہے‎ 
N 
8০৫৯0) 9৩০7 Wea 
00$ - “٠ ee nes oot id ee ee “তেনে. “83 jag وہہ‎ ‘Wg ٭‎ ০550 1S 
٤” 4 ae L 
007 &e € see aaa eee een eee 00722 eve ۹ی00‎ 00065 eee eae ase হাজত ভাজ "2a این ا!‎ ৫500 “aig 4 01 OFS 
"Qsug Jeeqy চে 
OfV UN OFT 7 
oos*s “ 7 7 ~ 009৪ سن چرمیاومسویہ. .ضر چوروردد ید‎ 655 
’ 17 
090 £ 5 : = 5 000% ছি ج-‎ 05০০৪ ہہ‎ Hug ج-‎ আচ onid و‎ 
"০9 یور‎ 
0০৪4৫ se 7 o06'L2 اہ نف‎ “s2 ০0 “YO چرودجہ‎ ord یذ‎ 
te eq Be 
000's = 2 = 000°s ¥ MeN وسووہ‎ “sd یہ‎ [eT 9৪, ০৯২৫ vies 
O06 StF ج201 و00 مج‎ as 00۸09 ewe 006‘s2‘9 ৬৬৩ ese 0 ٣ 86৬03799৬57 জি oud 955 
০0০০১৬৩-) خر‎ -۶ 0/۳ [ভওিডেজতু 
004 ee see eee Bee ৪৪৬ ees tee eee ৬৬৩ 004 ane: 75 عچد‎ ৩৩৪০3০৩0100 1ی اپ‎ na 01310 ০ 
Jo হঠাত SON হছে ৩১085 
سد *** 00009*5 ۲۲ ت0۱۴‎ de o0z‘t 00055 *** = = بت‎ sins = 20رہ بت‎ “চু ۰> “82 ڈور‎ 3+ “Wg ٭‎ 03411 $83 
ivi} ee eee Pee see eee eee ہج‎ eee eo 00118 eee ene ese ec لابا‎ “93 ed 3060 eee ond 5ج‎ 
بالات‎ Bley বি 
008'2+ 0০09 00৪ وموں‎ ies 006 ۵ ss a oos't se 0007 00৪65 না پروی‎ SEL eR ۰چر“‎ onid 18% 
000‘! ae eee ہیں‎ eve ees eee waco aes ae 000۲٤ eee ہہ"‎ ese ed ۲ ow Ty ত্র ed 0380406 eee چ0‎ 065 
005 ee wee eee eee ৬৬৩ بی‎ ৩৬৩ eae ves ee ia 2১০৮ 009 > ৮১০ .سو‎ oe 95310 کہ‎ 
000 es eoe eee eee eee eee poe eee es 0009 pee ene ৬৬৩ - "H "24 1220 نی٦‎ ১১১০৩] age Od 8688 
« oe eee * ৭৯৫ চর pe IN aim 
004 ۲ es ৯০৬ ace eee ees ہج‎ oe ০00৫" eee ৪৬৬ ৬৪ ৮9৪45 30ہ دو‎ 1১6০1111501 কও 0" La 
7 ۲ ۱ ار یا می‎ 9 
OOT ৬৮৩ eee ene ৮৬৬ ean ase oe 001 eee eee =e وج۔ )ئ0‎ 0 "3a VII ae ovid "089 
qpoqng “sa 10,31 dour eg 
00S ee wee ৩৬০ eee eee pee 9৬৪ ene ৪৮৩ 002 میں‎ ese oa O48} کہ‎ ) 509, ০০৮৪৪ ا:نڈائنری‎ =e 071g 6و‎ 
002 ee oon eee eee ہج‎ ees wee ৪৪ eee 0032's ieee is = باب‎ tg “a “sa 006 93 ৮৮৪ ০5510 $63 
« ae ooo eee eee fod ٠ 
090 £ 1 7 রি = = 00০19 7 = - eT سا‎ ‘sa 490. [ছু ATER ** 016 بات‎ 
00801 ہیں‎ oe ene eee eee wee eee 00901 een eee دہج‎ "dd ) 8 "23 [seq ۲510018 ee ond gas 
003 sen oes eee ee ae eee ৪৩৬ ove ৬৬৩ 008 eee ons টির 9 40 [এজ 07 08860 ক 
دہ“ ہے‎ (08019 আম +0 “KK "৩ ৪৩০ چ‎ 
908 9 006 7 5০ 3 جو'وو0‎ 7 "0,٤ CTEM(VAQSA "এ ৮596 ۱ مز‎ 1691 "ON 5108 °° 0-7 Ost 
ee ডিও hod 
و00‎ pee me eee ea eee ৬ ee 00s eee oes গজ [১৪1 5010111017 01۴ 8,0040;duI 7 eas ي0‎ 8٤ 
چن0‎ pes ar ans eee ee ৬০৬ eve eee one ee eee aan 008 4ppyv “Cd اما ۷ھ 6چ‎ ))0 aoe Hid Sis 
000 ee ee ee es @s ee es es ee 000‘s ee 2s হি و‎ (tous) 202000 چرچ 01885[ رر‎ OIC Ltt 
ر00‎ ee aes 8৪৪ eee ৪৪৩ eee ous se oes wep ose 004 aes 801১2 (reyuny) +** 0780 ors 
۹ eee ees ৪৩ ‘eg 
OOF OL ৮৪৪ eve ৪৫৬ ee eee ee OOF ‘oT eee ہج‎ see "৫5108 "pa jse¥q 97 prog eve 3d gig 
(000০৫ en ee ee ee কও se ee ee te نیت 6 = و0009‎ (তাস) رر را‎ ১১1১ 5 6 টি oid $18 
"5393০ 
٠ ove swe pus agyg remy equy "৪ “3500 0 
600 8 ase age ade see en eee ee 000৪ ee soe ‘ea (১১০১৯) নি 1560:8 কস; Hs 126 ئ١ .2جو دور>‎ [১5118 8 
০1 
$1158, 
ee ia ৪2 ‘esueq ২৪০৬ 
00008 eee vas 009 one - ace = 00s'28 eve eee ove ** "IIL ‘Sou Mey +سرکہ‎ fg مر‎ 80900039800 ।43৬595১89 «STE 
a: “eu ار چہ- اع‎ “ee my: ایج ان چو۔ چو‎ a: | an | لنخے‎ 
وع‎ 171 8961 “02-0961 “206! "8967 (41 “৯9৫ “PGT "11 آھووسوو*‎ “L6°068T 0و۹‎ 0199001] ٠ 
و90“ 3 ف99]*‎ 2০ ৪9996 ₹ 0907 وو 7و اینب‎ | wey ن09 وت ۳7وہ 7907 0ہ‎ “Plog Flue ৪৪০1৬ بر اد‎ 0} 2০০৩0 0 On 
-ueqeg “a ا‎ 8 & %F % 32 بج‎ 3 ٤ سی خر‎ 6৪ ویو‎ 5:٤ Uo PUR) 20 ০59৫ og} Jo ourEY 170ک اوہ‎ ওএঘ?) JO ৩৩৩০) [398 


415 
5 


88 8 28 


.: ইট ৪ 8 


JULY 12, 1956 


হন © 312. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


‘pang 


DoAbog redo 709 ViOMog ond 
033 
ওজন ৩০৫, ٠,12 ও 
“HyVY تام‎ Spurqiqug ٠٠ Hd 
‘azpig 2০৫5. 8,79072 
5۲050-0198۲ ع٤ کر 0ات‎ Vperqiqeg ~°* 0 
‘org এঞ্ঞা 9, inpeyeg 
VK وو سس کو پا ید وس‎ 23১৫ 
[4০৩5৬ Iwao * Id 
ری‎ 8০৫ #,copeyeg 
زی انج ۲ نن‎ muyez নর ٦ 
"Lg 10۵٥ 8,5191 
چوو ےھ یی با گا ا بی رھ 3 ا ضس اسر‎ ০1770 
"apd اس و‎ 
290017 ‘say pesg ٭ راخ‎ wud 
و لگا پیک‎ 
تا‎ 0 WHEW ۲000۳ ও ٠> +6 
دہ‎ 10[1١ظ0‎ vivieyeR  ٠٭‎ গো 
“mapig wodry 
kyapog)«=AIVINY YT ” 30ہ‎ ** 00 
ارامہ یرد‎ ৯০৮ সরল ٠ سی‎ 
“dyqs ا اس‎ 
رڈپزیں یب اید ارس ا ولضرز ای انت‎ sud 


diqsmmjoqog  * TWD ‘aBatjoy 43‏ جح" 
£I0UpI924 WSoG ×8 ০০৪ নি‏ 
“WOO 2010 01979 4?‏ 
ا گے پیل 0৮79 “2998 9G) pas‏ :رانچ puny Soyedsu]‏ 


-sanooDy 
৪7835099950  Paosey 6 
SUCH ‘sa [ভে 65109 wweq ٠٭‎ 0 
وہمکوہ‎ “O’r 5৩ 55৫50 "0 2০ 011 
۲9900 ٤|٤ 7 
ع60878۔‎ ‘sa 190 8190100۵0 0 
হাত SOR ٭ وص‎ onid 
“Bjpuy مر 9558 رہ‎ 
£7972100g °94 ওত - yates ون‎ 071 
usg'N'N یىی کومہ' ہد‎  ٭‎ Onn 
“SIV ৩০০৩০) 
‘AV ‘oyun GQ sayy 
بر راز ہے‎ vay ০0 
ہمہ‎ f “A দি. 
9085], TUN 300০৮ 95 نی‎ 
رسود‎ I 
ے سد مد وررردں‎ “HN wpe * od 
"med [০০৬37 ‘oy ‘soy 
নস تاتھ‎ 8 — oma 
وص‎ ۳ ৬ (VOR Twavypr” ” انی‎ 
[জপ 00د‎ “os Haq ٣٢ ینوہ ۶ع‎ ond 
wed দু لاب نا‎ 
وا بریں‎ DH “YT Seamer 90 
& 
X Sipuy ‘sa [পভ “Ht. 0 
‘Sug UtEnqY 
“nga “a ات °° پت لیو تو یا‎ 
জর Us ae 
VAIN ‘et WE " ‘sipuareny ond 
*si0ngPm0q) 
[eT ৯৩ 73৬0 wey prey onid 
5روو-‎ "৪৩ 9৪০0 
sapeys” Cosy [ey ভাজম জাভহঞ্চুয ٭-‎ Id 
"mud “N 
BIDUANYG 8 peed, আত onid 
-درجوم٥‎ Pus এহসান 
৮০৫ Uvpivuve وو‎ ۲ PS Us -. 01 
el ep ۔‎ পি 
+80701 ‘ss تچ“ 0 چرہجئ] تہ‎ ** 07510 
ویمسود“-‎ ۹ 
ہ8000‎ ‘sd jeseq [ম্যান ٭‎ atid 


_ HO FP Teyg uvgoR হছে 
نب‎ PIT “og چپ‎ যা WISN 


We a nit cath anus. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


416 


puna 


3০৫৮0 ×× NS ~*~" ORIG tte‏ وو مہ یی 
oor't‏ 
*ABoqoqyed‏ 
০০৯ (ت٤ج Bf 1597 syuwyg *** FG ste‏ 
00৫‏ 
“puny [05]‏ 
tre‏ 0 ہے eee fepzomlaye 9974], Gog এ "যু‏ 
006 009 
Fld ore‏ ٭ eee ৯ = [জা] GIO‏ 
eos ee 00৯‏ 
"pang‏ 
বরা ses VHowey জা et wor iq ** ond 60s‏ 
0۳ 01 اد ১১১1১16১170‏ عوعئن“ ےن ہے seo 009 ۰7 5 চিনি ee‏ 
as 100 গাও এ ভাঙছে ** 0-1 208‏ آ00 এ‏ 
aw 004 “puny 1০7‏ 
گ0 itl “Ig *** ০‏ نال [৪০‏ مد ا ৮৫৪ oe ase‏ 
at 00s ‘pung‏ 
ese veo dyqavjoqoc [গজ ছ350029]হ ٠٦ 0 sos‏ 
00৪ -7 vais dyyarejogsg 9১০০) ** 03910 FOL‏ 7 
or 008°?‏ 
see ove ۰ٗ Hg ৬০০০০ °° 015 20.‏ ۳ 
woe 0067‏ 
اک pung 92] 98597 139 3 OIG‏ یچ ace aes‏ 
oid 10ِ‏ *** ےو وب ہوح١دہ রি ০০০ es ৫09া০ঘ০৪‏ 002 
‘pung [sowie‏ 0089 2 
006 06 وی و یں Wen‏ تین ৮০ wes ose‏ 
a 008‏ 
son ০ কল ag qamquypg_ *** 03310 663.‏ 
ee 0077 "aad‏ 
چوع 98417 *** eo ove soe 9৪ feyuounpjee, MVE 0 0 ‘Id‏ 
٠ 00৪8 "গল 0০0 17‏ 7 
ডা aoe Spe Jealig ৬7০০৪] “iq *** onid 89৪‏ 7 
006 
و 1ئ শি”‏ ید“ es ee one eve nee ۵77 0 ৪১১101১1021‏ 
ছু‏ 
০০181 262‏ ٭٭ টি ae oe vee eee PUT [00০] এতে jauojag‏ 
00 
ہج oud‏ *** ری نج پو و خی 7 roe 2 নি sae ৯৬৬‏ 
111913018" 
جج রি ee ne 100 eg ھ٣۰ আএ070 wsung *** ond‏ 
রি ee 07 “68 :‏ 
oe ৬ ৮৬ eee on quepnig 59450 Lwyeg 2 এত *** OHIG 36g‏ 
ئ۲ ٤ ae ee see oan pong ৩৫12 [90058 [৬] vpuway *** Id‏ 
سیسات 000 oot‏ 
এ 96‏ چرمم رد ve ese oes 2: ৫179৬1০7591 1۶1 mpqy ০5৩00‏ 7 7 
one ove 00g‏ 
931855]80" : 
seo‏ _یدورترورحعأومتا : 
soO7JeUIWO;) jo‏ 0008 - :یلا پنریڈالنو ری 
os ৮৬ ৬৬৬ ave oolg healt | GINA vey ) 0000 ‘redpujig 668‏ 
॥ 3701)‏ 9009 
Suyu‏ 00ڑ[39و٭ 
چوہ aN pL ‘Tedyoutag‏ تر ےا on one TeHows‏ میم on 009 os‏ 
‘pung "Sr ROTEL) ‘odor‏ - 
ve 7 5 en ee Rd [Houle AON 5০০8 9030০৬584০০ পৃ Loz‏ 
۰ لا کن“ چہ* va TH‏ 


1094 Of [وووندھح‎ 
21 ووع-‎ “90-9061 প্রি با0"‎ pIvdeq 9৪৩৫৩, ৪১০৫ OF 3০010 IC ‘on 
০9৫৩4 ا نم‎ wis ৫ 2.0 متا 50900186 0907-8 جن‎ 900) 20 00839] eq مر‎ ভা 4099710100707 811 Jo وەٹری چز٭واد‎ 
awl ٤ڈ‎ 01 


417 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA CAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


(সাজ ھو۔‎ ES ET TLE ভার লস নি EE AE RE IEEE: ২5 چو ےدک‎ ক جھیسمیے۔ودحےسے ڑچ‎ 


000s 0 
00৫7 0০0৯1 
00097 si 
00922 0058 
008 রী 
009 — 

009 
006 = 1 
003 = oa 
00৮ টি eat 
009 Bee ٭‎ 
اف کر ار‎ ps 
009. 3 
0001 = i 
000°8 

وی 008 

0001 کن‎ 
0০০" 2 3 
07 

0০0 

009 দি 
00৪ 5 
00% eae 

00s 5 سد‎ 


015 


۶ جا پممت0ذ90و 0[ج- 
ond 69‏ '٭ moun "870 wpuqd TC “٤‏ 
4০1৭ 11৮৫‏ ره 7ہج" 
Avuepysazg ৮ oud 899‏ 3390110۰ 0د۲900161 
-৫11585105‏ 
০2971) Lvuepjeerg *** 0775 Les‏ ںید چو 
“pang 7‏ 
49৬5 9591100 20172 *** oid ose‏ 
“Wap‏ 
365 07310 *** ہڈتد 1)3 eWIQIT 1097318۷۷ ‘TSG‏ 
Od ree‏ سسرو رو نہر رھ pung‏ ون 
[Spe SIO পঠিত ০0৬70 ٠ ONG ere‏ °° 
fasuK‏ ے92۲" 
offen: s{eiemes ~~" 0 ace‏ چروم:؛ ৪০‏ 
“pung‏ 
qm Aue peqeg efuny ** 01 Tee‏ 
“sd [eHow‏ 
০10 ose‏ ٭٭ ভর ভা) ify‏ 
٠ ua ose‏ 46 6010وی 79৫‏ ہی co‏ 
“pang‏ 
8 3٤وہ‏ °° msyome~_ আঃ)‏ یبد 
056ج 
০5715 Lee‏ ٭ 9000 plop 53918 ভএ‏ جرد 
Ovid 925‏ ٭ [০0001004197‏ جچمدرد وگ jo‏ 00ع 
عووصعچعصوج بل“ 
wg jaeyT 2070 Tea °° 08510 928‏ 
“pund “23091৩058৭1‏ 
গাও [vows 871516 0৩ ৮100 foueppeerg ‘jedpuya ৪৪‏ 
جج Od‏ +٭ ** গযব‏ ع[060< ٤‏ یم“ ‘oD pus‏ 
“sue‏ 
anody “Eni; pang uvgg *** ond sce‏ 
"III AadsUl ০1০০৪‏ 
Less‏ 06 *** رو =‘“lqsqvg এছ‏ ہ3010 
390ص9 ; 
igen‏ 30ک 3030۹" 
eujsodng dfoy wipusyy ৪০:01 SUED SOOO jedpuig 028‏ 
“জু,‏ 
এ pas +80003 ক‏ 9500 ئ00 
"এ, এ “= OK ots‏ 9۲۳ح “qd Uj] [eps‏ 
“pong‏ 
WIL (spe হতে ভাজ °°’ ০1১৪ sts‏ 
4০77‏ نپ WRIL‏ پ5 
éq30aurqvyy awe etyjady *** 016 LTe‏ 
০০11৪ PuTllsyag “ IHG ote‏ چ(506] me‏ 
ودب رہوعبت *puag‏ 
٥٤,91071 Aopreqg 378 *° ond gis‏ پ 82000537[ 
“pang‏ 
قوج یہدوہ وہ repo scuuep ATI‏ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


418 


‘pun 


see qnly, ২০৪8 sit 023৩ x ove ০২15 soe 
7 pung $50/0,29050-509 -٭‎ ০8710 909 
“+ পাথ৯০০১৪৪ ০০৩৭1991359 ** ০3710 = 
“4۲116 
ہه٭ ج09 ا1ا ئ۶ ۱ئ‎ "00٤ fee 
۲6ہ“‎ PUT 
Jo} epuedng [জয় ভ্হলএ-স = ئ00‎ soe 
ت وارت لا ظخ‎ 474 sag 
wosey و ین رن 1 :ئ۴‎ ORIG 19¢ 
سد‎ PUNE وا نارق‎ UIQ) IVAN “৭ ond 095 
স্তর ৬০০1, 150 [যন : ٠٠۴ 01 6s 
eee ۴ [গত ৪১৪১১, | ceo 033d eos 
“pang [Sour 
QUO MST 1০৫০9 puvyiwyiany) °° nud ا‎ 
“۲186 
1175 ج9 تہ‎ ٠060085 ۲٢٢7۷8 *** 95710 ose 
9৩03 3০011৭৯0 vivreqey *** اٹ‎ cst 
“4111:3810 জর 
ح0٤‎ azjig 55051৭350 eferequy *** od 85৮ 
শ৪০750705ঠস 21303, 
انس ال‎ ueaping আাৃভএভমৃভট্ *** vd ১৬ এ 
سرن الج‎ pus diysrosejoly 
910৯৯ ৪310 BspusgD qeqpey “ oid 59৮. 
০: 
200 ওঠা 55০] 1007৭ ৪এ২০নৃ সু *** ০721 1s 
pang 1005 eipusSor °* RHC ose 
2০০0০৫71598 0011706 081010 [jee **. ১০181 CHE 
<۲ 77 
eh3g 99 ١,۱۱٥۷۹ چرڑہ‎ LISTEN °° OF ete 
"ওহ 
emqur 9,95০, ivamy wey ০** 98310 ج۲‎ 
"এ 08৬৬ 
ভা] Wpawy 9৮470 "** 97715 OTe 
dyqerejoung [100 *** ৮৬1১৪ ore 
15০ 199] 00075 feng *** ارت‎ HE 
“1۱16 00ص"‎ 
BA را ت9ا‎ ০৭৭ ومبزدله‎ 713 505৪ ےج" چببرسدرل٭'‎ 
one pang 1515085৩] 930(5 ۶۳تا‎ ng *** 01210 Ste 
"98910 
5009010975 09 001200 ৪. ড1007০8 *** 0-5 te 
"8ZHd ]٥ئم چروںە‎ 30৬১ ০৪3০1 


০৭0 আও VY 31৪ ৮০০ 4০09দ৬3 2৫1৩0৩ন7 Of 


۱ "3099 ঠা 9002090] 
Pied ০৫ ০০০৬ Toys 08 2৯০০ 20 گا‎ 
GO 09 30 309০ of) Jo curs pr 1OWENSTEPAPY omy 50 سد‎ ক 


419 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


mMiweaarr‏ وے 


ode آ00‎ ٠ 
aes 00৪ e 
e OOF ee 
ee 003 wee 
eee 00 ese 
وع‎ ০৪ 00071 
7 نت‎ 0007 
00044 00059 রা 
0001 0008 
= 003°9 = 
0008 
00858 
006‘T 
000" 
7 094 
00949 
0087 eg 
এ 001 
7 008 
এ 00$ 
009 2 
0088 
eee 008’ Tt ese 
پوت‎ 0008 000°6T 
01 2 ™ 
00007 0004৮ 00989 
00৭-898 
ase 00৫7 eee 
wa چج۔‎ a: | 


0-0061 WOT KE OFA TOT “০ 96৪ “৮0557 ۲۵۰۳ KS 


৬০৩ lg ج‎ ۲309 হাতে "9৩ 061 وو‎ 
নি 8:11) “Ag ANT $6% 
وہ‎ % tH ے ي-‎ “ ON سے‎ 
PT "8 سیت سم‎ 
৮০ 3117 9417৮36০-00 “00120 +* OKI হা 
puny 1০97৫ ০৬০০ (জাত 0 tes 
01 wood ۸۲3019 যাগ femg RNG 068 
0015 وہ 8ھ‎ puna qUstLac pug eon یھو"‎ Onn 688 
‘pund {aetLaopd” stopp “71270 “০ 
০৬ 1 مر‎ (০০5১9 59309150 مز آتہ؟ا دح‎ (০০০9 3০922 sss 
مو0‎ [ভাগে 0606ھ‎ 
ক ما لہننسشر یی‎ Tepes ایب‎ iva 28ء] انت‎ 
= یدعس‎ wuyereyqivy, Aowusy “" OKT eae 
নি “PON, 17 
৮ wud ا پا یر‎ চলন “tid ٭وو‎ 
"pang ووستادہ9‎ 
one eee OQ uvengg 12359 pedofueg **" ond vee 
“pong Amypmek) ۳ جس‎ 
coe - ہ50‎ ৫০0 2ھ مد‎ = nud ses 
eve see ane ٠. চা 2৩9০৬১০০০ رز مہ۴۲۲ وو‎ ٠٭‎ শি یرووو‎ 285 
"puny Tsu 
ase ag پ نی اوت ہے‎ ভগ) wqon “ONE تنا‎ 
‘puny ۹5307۸ ع00‎ 
০ نف‎ 3 (SOULS দয) wyyeuurw_ 45 ۰“ ০১৫1 0 
“pang 
eve eee eee eee ঢা ১৪০০ یووجحتصبتد تس سوچ‎ see aoe 07 1২ 
ق تلاح"‎ 39] &,0 
eee নি 2 ic a7 1০০০০: veuysy teas * ON BLS 
"pund ss} ۳ [035 রর 
eee রর eve vse Pas sefieqyawy 8০৮০ *" 0۳ £28 
*pung ও 
000°S "১০0 [৬৬এসছন, Ieaseasg ٭‎ ১১:88 928 
পয ustiaopry msg - 
1520903 118 wUsyoR হণ ~~ er یووم‎ 858 
‘puny مسلاجلاو‎ 
রী 000° “OY دوخ 4 چجھرے ررہ>جوعہ)‎ ১১ ozs 
ا نم کا‎ 
٦ ডন 409 Ueferey 500702209 ieuny ** oan 0 و‎ 
সে) “WWE دای ننوا‎ তো 
- a * pang হজে or ‘watg wigan, 4757১9৩৪54৪ 
ese مم‎ রস শে ۲48.830۶50010 Jo puny 007902 wr HINT TLs 
৬৬ ose oes sii এ یکا‎ wopueg "** (AA ols 
جع حصر(٭-‎ “IH “PH ০৩ 
ses ann one vee یج‎ PV BdeiZojemsayD jo Uo MeO) £$ 69 
pang wopueg Ayres 
001০৪ 1 0 جمرتج۔.۔ ھفہ-_  لے ے ث|١ےنےنےنےنےنےنےنے نے ھ_‎ তেনে “Areyaioog 898 
مب اد1‎ * এ ইছওডে & 
we ج۵۸۵۰۳۵0۸۳گ5 ۔‎ আসন) ৬০৭6 HQ عو چجج7ہجحصہ'“ رجرعدھری٭ہ‎ 
nx: § چج۔ چو‎ 


“OW 


GVOT KES “SO-EDGI GWOT %8 ‘19-8961 Teo‏ ےموج 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


সস 


শুক =e3 Cnid Sir‏ انا ریت oos‘s ese eve ese ese Aresuadisig চাও তেও‏ حصہ 
‘puny 20155‏ 
00০৮ ese ese 00029 eee ese ete ۱ eer "000০ 9৩এএ 2970 5৬০ eae eee re Cire g a4‏ 
“puny (০৯‏ 
হে Sty‏ ---<ھ ٭ ‏ ف۰۰ ۰۰ 0د GnyEyasg‏ ود ون رو رون 07 ১‏ 7 0009 
eve eas 27 ae "puny 00110035 991$0003০ আযাব‏ 00889 


পি UmMypeyUss ৯০1৭01 MOT ০০08 গ৬০ ‘sueprag sf 


20133] 


Suypsefreq "ভে ‘rouorssyurmiog Ajndag হাক‏ 71اقتمدت۹50 pung‏ سس 0000৪ 7 টা‏ نت 
“£aypedpo‏ 
Suyeofreq “জা OF‏ و دث با و سیق ہے نا والہئ رن টা 2 গর sg "০‏ 00 ہم 


ہٍ DP‏ ععسقصدو 


00082 00052 "10০93 چرجمڑمع‎ 80039911 SucHeyWD جہمت مہہ‎ 60 
* وو-‎ 09391100 0 
00051 ئ] 7907 ۱مھ ند0 ود“‎ *** আগে ریو ومچزددو(0<“‎ 
انداانا‎ 
[এ اس سو‎ "ও 
17خ00‎ sary কহ 
‘ -dopasaq i eredummoury 
ae 002 ٥ تی‎ cee See چچاوو دہ 1ئ ایک 0000:0 0190040178100 00" مہ ہہ‎ 0۴ 
"7750150 “000 
10) [ভাতা jesueq 
রি 0, 17 کت وت نت‎ 000‘00'Sz oe aes WOM “TOPO چڑ٭٭تہ3‎ 908 
ارس دیس جح‎ 
. و‎ WV Fo 
00901 80آ‎ 4198 ভএটেরেজদু) QuyPeR ০0 350৯0039400 ‘edpug 20 
a ৫] eee 158۳ 3 8 Id 
~ 4 0009 = sa ae aia ہے‎ কনে 
00007 = Cee রি چتمت-' وع .۴ وت‎ 80۵0] ‘sem *** “we 0938 6a} 
“Seng uvengg” ۲6 
ক *puey سیب‎ A 4335৬ 
000 OT SIqVyD Viprey) fc simeyR ٠+ ws Nd ابنات‎ 
0096 0089 ai ০0 چع+ چز* 9 و‎ ** *** গা Tot 
7 ০৪০ 00০0৪ ase | see “ee = GMaptslyl تام‎ 503 “esse, *** **- ONG 00% 
راپیلا نے‎ 
‘eonddnag 0 3০ 9590 
8 see ese بلب‎ see eee e aus "জিতু سس سس یش‎ 
و000‎ oie SUA CTY Saye ewes "৬০1 04) وہ‎  یریبدتجەچ‎ 668 
“99902 
(qomerg sorddng) فدہ‎ ف٥‎ 
নু ০ 
eos ese eve eee eee 0609 গজ 2 জাজ 0ت ددإدہ*‎ MEN AVIVL yswursaon مکڑکاو و0یفرںادک'‎ ۴۶ 89$ 
چو چو چو ای‎ মু چو‎ my: § VE 


چو۔ 

"£06 وو(‎ 8] 183381 
ore a wore 8967 *৫ Tt موچ‎ কি 1 118116 جو‎ 07 133 £0 “ON 
5901 8 09071 298 0961 THOT 8 و ور ن‎ KP "GOD %৪ 8967 ৪৬০ Ke لن و وو 8988 و این‎ ৪০৩৮৭ woered eu? Fo corey নি رر مم +ت ری‎ ক 8 


421 


SUPPLEMENT TO TITE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 


900 WqByUOOR ** “* og Les 

50৯10 sysaayE *** 1111 جو‎ 

وچ “OMT‏ -٠٠٠ى٠‏ پک 0ہ 01001:0ا8٭ 

“ “PY چرکررورومتہ‎ 20৪ چک‎ *" ٠٠ ری یرون[‎ 
٦ 90075 aougenyey ۰ یوین‎ stp 
83010 ৪৬৯৫0 * oid ریت‎ 

803010 472০0 “0 رکا‎ 

weed pu” 6ھ‎ 0৮ 

5 গাও, Waerg ”* 0577 جوم‎ 

a WIA 30340 ০770 StF 
09070 UMOL) ond Ley 

۴110 186 ০8910 98৮ 

55070 £9০৪  ~ Nd ctr 

আদি CANTY 05313 ۴ 

oud 88৮‏ ۳ ر(8090 

0300 [এব ONG جج‎ 

ডা) ৪৬00 "66 جج‎ 

Wan) sasvamg ٠٭‎ ০2300 0 

تد٥‎ (YVR my ٠+ we গেছে 62৮ 

“PIT জল “bh GR sie 4১৫1 این‎ 
9013010 8ہ‎ - 01 LaF 

১১০০০১৪4০11 ond 92৮ 

Sch‏ وت °° روز رجوجتد٭ 

جم 0 6 023010 


4 
ا او ےو ںن ظز )وووں رانا یع 
5038 می 30097" 
,75988 4510 092510ا٭" 
of aramey Ex গর‏ بج Jeafspuvyy peesig jeg‏ }40 


চে ey 
সস ST Ped سار‎ BRIS 943 مر‎ 9১০৪ جچج‎ 


مت Bemeng’g ٠٭ ٠ ORE‏ و 00" ٭- 
جج0 "০‏ *" واسش لیو سن ند 
٠ ১:41 গুড়ে‏ پچروەسهع ج- ৪৪৪‏ ٭ جہ- 
রি রি "আত ete‏ 0 
LiF‏ یووم °" تید سی pmg yo yun0oo8 wor‏ 


op aorsarmog‏ ریرحت 
و ee +51368 Yoo গছ 299. 5০.‏ 
OTF‏ £3893298 ہہ J Pung 2৬০৪০ 15590500390: ay‏ 


"3038 জ্য رہ رصہو‎ 
وٹ‎ 03 OQ ০ 


ae “¢ 
390 998 pun Uceied ay} jo লিট وو 0د‎ ous পানিকে 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


422 


"39703 اوت ن9م جو‎ 
sas sie 02 ۶ সী “RD ‘souspsy [১5০ ey دکعہ:؛۔ ہر‎ [০১43 ৩০ 
oor । بت‎ নার qUNODDY টোন salosoy ناوزدتدعر‎ «JO 90302038010 58995 جوع‎ 


eee es eee ۱ 
‘orot rs pany uve sumed esse“ "OF 5৪? 
কি 1 ورک ورو-‎ ১০২৩০ 
ese ace ৪৪ ace cos ৪৯৩ শরিয়া 
00588 00S puny 006 08807 ওত 07 435565০5 ٤ج۶‎ 
008 مہ‎ oot ove 002 see 007 "BIT 49867) UopeIod109 ০০5০৪ "৮" “one 0৪% 
پت ا یت ت۸‎ 00 হক سور نید یڑ ئن یں جج مم‎ “ee ONT یل‎ 
ens Con oe ene ee 008 بس مج‎ "PII “সত হাহা টিসি vee OFFI ৪৬৮ 
Bee ee vee ese ese 00৪ ese اج ود‎ 6:1900 জাহান کے‎ 7 OIG ۴ے‎ 
aoe 7 ৮ ase oo 00০ ০০০ PNAC “PFT یھ صہ'‎ ০৩৩ “od ۶و‎ 
ae ee eee eee 000°2 a9 eee one ic 800291100 pose 1 ees) - OUI ৪৮ 
ees eve eee eee oy ০09৩ «ee one cot ہے‎ “PII ‘ear 1و‎ 9016 5 me می اٹ‎ 
cee ase és0 ees ا سم ضا‎ mi i 
0008 son 000" z eee “DIT ‘sappsedoig وا یئن گت‎ ss) یچوژزئی‎ "82 
ae s eee eee see 000s wee eee ۰ 9090 ٦9017 وت‎ ate ے4 ت01‎ 
পি sea و‎ eee এ ا ا‎ শে 
009 tee ome ہے‎ ‘suql " ভঙ্গুর یحم مح۶:٭.‎ "** ove ONE Tat 
00৫ eee ese 009 see see = (٭ئی' ان‎ ভাজ 09 গন 017 ১) 
see see ٭وھ‎ ope 008" اطم مہ‎ রর টা 
oe tr ae wee “গে ےج رو جوم‎ WHA یہ, مہ‎ ۰ “= ox ۴ 
ریف‎ eee see وہ موم"‎ সপ 2 রে 8 
0007 7 ۰ ক HOA এভন Jo 103 5 پت ئن ہے‎ 
eve eve 000'T oee ose زاب‎ চি ০০০৬) Fre 6117 £07 
ae oce owe oor? eee see aoe 909010 wager yy ase =a) Od جوع‎ 
۱ 7 2 রর سے وا نیچ پاپ یں ری‎ 
ones : و0009‎ ০ ৬ 1 ০** ফা oat 
oe eee eee see Base bey at 
002° eos oe ao “DFE Pues aks g ONG روچ‎ 
eee ee oe soe ese eve 8a ار‎ 08] 8 মিহির =— 
; ۰ ০০০% যাক ond cor 
0005 ভাটের OY “MT ‘mag WY ۰۰+ “"  073Id 29৮ 
5 . -٠::513070( WEI) puw 9৩3 
000 F وو کے‎ IO] ۶0171 د18“‎ ٥0ا08‎ , ogee کت‎ vee نے‎ 7۲ tor 
007 এ ভি Tee “PT “(HOW waseaay ٠٭‎ “ss OVE 09৮ 
টিন ese 0০০০ ٠0130.00 ডে টি *** “* OIG 69৮ 
মি 009°T اناد جا‎ ae ot = لیر لو رت بت‎ *** 141 est 
بے‎ eee eee eee 000‘e ese Ste eee 8019010 ভেঙে see 05 0, ٢ 
ہہ‎ ons ees ১৪০ 00০৭ oe ove ০ ساسا مار یں سے‎ 2 *** ০20 9st 
ave one wee oot cee ید سا موجہ جم" سے‎ সস ০ ONG qc 
ese eo ৪৬৩ 0008 eee see 33701٤ মা “mi *‘puequerq a পরি €791 5 tot 
৬৬ ৪ 000% eee ove 98001391010 1ؤ‎ eee wee 08310 sav 
i سم وو‎ oe eee 803010 wededny ** *** Ona oa? 
5 ৬৩৪ eee eve see 0091 ace ses noe 800190010 60 یج‎ vee - tgs 
নর ese eee ৬৬৩ veo 000's aoe উদিত aco 833393110 wag * ) 0 1 ایا‎ 
2 see eas eos ace 000 موہ‎ sae یڈ‎ sno 1 5407 گ,0 این‎ Ott 
পক ')201( 9271 quam 
qeday 9৩৩০% নু -ےء-‎ 
ove ৪৬৪ ese sve & e age مد‎ ৯০ রঃ وو‎ 
آ00‎ ۰ ne Utena) مہ۲۳۵‎ ay oy Armeineg inde ۳۴ 
ای چو رع ا ار چج* ہو چو.‎ ; 


“On‏ 7 و 
JO ও (51299‏ جوہ ٭مسرقڈ>ریعرمر sures‏ مر so nosed oq}‏ رعەم TROT 9১৪ 46691. two 9৪‏ مو0-جو NES BOTAN KES "00991. TCL KP "976 ৪০০০) Ge‏ ہہ 9۸۰101 GWOT SES‏ 8 ۲90 89-0061‘ 


423 


1956 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 


da 


نکیل و نے اج “PFT‏ 
puv ۲۵0390 ۲97303 see‏ ۰50140110 
کا 


609 

৩১৫৮: 
30799416000 “YSOUA) IVUINY wun : نے یئ و‎ suzpazenedag £09 
ا0رک‎ বত آ00 ٭‎ 909 

“puny song 

wayyy ৬০ ٭ص‎ ভাগের *** 0721 909 
2০5290০02৩7 09৪ Giwusagg °° od نلم‎ 
00۲و‎ ৯১০ ON ** “Nd £03 
00 PUA A’d *” 0 209 
pony ওজন سنہ ےن تع‎ OIG 10s 
pang 175/0١ [0০039মূস্ ٠٠ 07 009 
puny ০৩০৪৬, rey [5৫00 *** 0310 جج‎ 
ے000‎ 007710008 seoding [8790 *** od 007 
(000 50 ‘“Bijeleg "তু ٠٭ اڈلنث‎ 86৮ 


جھو ‘TH [ভাজার ভাজা ‘yaspua;qedng‏ رت 


Avqsprwaoy Apey oid ৫৫৮‏ ہا 
07م ond‏ ٭٭ ید ودمرہ) عصبر تح 
onic ৪6৮‏ ٭- Tepousy ০০০০৬‏ یح ۰ 
‘pong dqmuapng &‏ 
6۶ج ond‏ ٭٭ پیوس aig এ www‏ 
وى7ہ×- ‘etd‏ 
ond 16%‏ ٭٭ ریب اہ mpryeg wpupg‏ مر 
جم masueg wey yey ٠ ond‏ صاع 


“Pang [লও 57000 ০8৮70) TPIT 
وت ید ۷وہ تھے 10800[ چڑدہ--‎ UWENIN ‘Tpu 69৮ 


22:090 ‘af 010 (50777585 50010 "ওগো Fudd جع‎ 


دوچرو- 
oct! ea‏ و کرو tie‏ ہس 
টিভি‏ 


স170750 “টো 

[চাও jo 70700০9 صاع‎ 

wey puspaiq peuywpuQ ٠ yd cud 
ہہ 0٭53و(27-‎ ওযা 9য় 

Two | 80 ٤000٣ par ৭ yp yeu 


৮০০‏ ہے ھ 9১০০৩০১০১০০ জেল‏ و یں 


oo‏ 7 25591 چہ تی 
fo 4‏ 
OF 22০০০ 7‏ ھت পু আল SOUS reg ao‏ 


ই ۂ‎ 2 i 
a 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


424 


[গন া।5 Wes Woepusz 
۱ “7১909 woeSimg دعچوو وج‎ = 
এছ) THO £ H 9৯০০০ 
০০৪৪ 7 سس‎ ٠۳۴۲۰۴۶۸ 1050 BU [০০ ৩০৫০০ وجو‎ 
فت0ا00ا3 ی۲58٢ رت پت ابا‎ 0051 91৫৮০] sy ** زج کف ایی‎ 
6 ات‎ Walpey 
آ۲ آ00‎ tee 007০ ৪1301 4০১২৪ wv جوف ?98976 ** ہ۶‎ 
1১৫০৬ 411091156 £15%1511, 
00011 “Caltg لصا‎ “ting [ "ওতে ** 03310 67৪ 
“‘pung کے‎ 
Sn 000°1 کت وت‎ “GPtaiveg ptssig ysalng "1090 °°. جج ا‎ 
0008 ifs ٦ 10301 0055ح 0د‎ ৪,305 ٠ od tr 
one = "00 ٭--‎ 180 গতি ৫০০০ ٠ ond ors 
“pung 
000‘0S شسسبقو پا نت یت و‎ Sond ... OKI وع"‎ 
0062 5ً نے‎ ক ওযা € چر ٭ ےے‎ ORIG وجج‎ 
ee 009°21 ee 00s 2 ৩৪৩ ۱٣١ ৪? 0980 = 0" 9ج‎ 
0067 si a (20;98u0D) bag gai یف‎ ৫ اکا‎ 8৬০ 
a coe چرہید- چون‎ ‘osog il a 2 دو‎ OIG وع‎ 
sesoding [Wate ژکرمہا‌ررئ)‎ 
000°69 0০৮41 008‘s+ 00008 چر٭متھ: دہ‎ HK CSI *** 06 ۲6ں‎ 
eae 000৪ ee ese ebe pang | ৫১৩1১, 5۲0 see NIG ess 
“puny 
হি 006‘z ج8٭ت08((۲80 تج جح‎  ہقمزرمر‎  ئتمجچوچ‎ ** 0 8-89 
زا‎ 00, 1 cn 00? 0154: ০৮1) feoypayg  -٭‎ 01 ا‎ 
0007 = *** 40001 MOPUY 31 یں‎ টা 06 oss 
009 ডল "ঞ১০৮ এন uvapmg efervgey *** NG 629 
eae wee 001 see Han, 41vgeq ey ** HAUG Sé6¢ 
0007 vee st و‎ puny Susy ری انت یہ‎ *** 0 9 
টা 0004 puny Wad yuoumBNeqy *** 011 935 
چروعردر*‎ 
eee eeu آ00"‎ [খা زی یں ا۶ا 50ات۲“‎ bee OMI وچ‎ 
006 7 تچ‎ : pany nq 00৬৭0 Aor سو‎ 0 #39 
007 ٦ ** qavulmopuy ৪,77০ انی *** جح“ و‎ ce 
হি 008 ৬ ٠ ৩1৬৬0 Wg =o OIG 239 
cm 0099 sig 1000120008 UosBpoy ** Wd চুতও 
b 001 ২০90০৬০স্০ UWB "৪0 *** Id 069 
مت ٭نتگک"‎ 
000°S = ٦ چو کہ‎ Ul Pe neog oyry 1৫00 ٠٭٭ الات‎ 619 
ا ںا‎ 
یا‎ 0007 oT aopug 93085, [ey jedop -~ 04 819 
25 006 রা 00৬ ৬43০০০)-০০ ক ৫৯০০৪৫৪ "0 sy ** 0-0 219 
6 eee “pang won 
- 00698 0098 یمام‎ টো ৪৪০৫০ موعوبع‎ *** ০৪310 "819 
دع‎ 00008 one oe ee :رائ چرموٹارمی‎ ee ০10 ۰آ"‎ 
۱0وت‎ 
2 000% BReOPes ANAK 9415839৫0০0) 05 ری‎ 
25 00592 a وچ‎ PUNY ৪০৪০) [সওজ *** ০5910 sig 
000٦1 ee oe ٠ "FI SNH VOL ৫010 ** sid ناف‎ 
Sie eee ہیں ہج‎ 01g > Bu u ees TI@ 
iia "Jed oaq~1e8 7و0‎ শপ সপ فو‎ 
ہے‎ কাজ = "017 1085৬) ت٥ج‎ wipusdnyg *** od ats 
: 092833000 پرمسٹرپوو؛'‎ aeqopt 
eee cog ove 00% ৪৪০71) eipusyy) myqueg ৬০০০৮ 0৩০৪১ 0১05 603 
ve وو چو چت-‎ 
فصو 57 3008" الرر5‎ 
“0-07 পচে 01931 718180 9৫০7৬ سبڑا0ل5ا‎ 08 49১/0 ۵ “On 
807 "GOO آھوو-وء۔‎ 


* 01 GO puny ০ ০৪৩০] ওনঙ 9 پر٭ت:ہ‎ 3০9৭গাতাসও) ey) JO CUTER, 1513৪ 
০৪ utoy نو 0907 8ت‎ 


426 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


000‘T 
008. 
ڈو ا‎ 
7 "02-0061 
Ss Uso] %F 


00 


07 


oot 


"216০ 92 ‘oN ‘og os Ovid 
‘°° QI6T مر‎ 9581 “on "og oid 
-۰ 9609০ جی٤ چرہ-‎ og oud 
** 161و‎ 0691 “ON og ৮ ond 

- 9615০ Stooge شی‎ over 
٭٭‎ 9169০ 19০৯ -og ond 
"" جو م7 61و‎ ‘ON “oq oni 
"* 963০9 چرہ-‎ ‘og oma 
٠ یرمع مر مو‎ ০. oni 
০০৮ ae 
--- مر اع‎ ZBI oN "০ 09১0 
11212 og চা 
৮ পত১০ و‎ ‘ON ‘og oni 
“* ع6٤‎ 5০9০৮ এ oni 
~* مع مز ۲6و‎ ‘ON ‘og ng 
*** 9873০ چرہ- و‎ “Og ra ond 
*** 675০ وہ‎ ON ‘Og ‘ 01 
vee ع6٤ مر‎ 2৮০ تس يچ*‎ 0 
*** 6۲]ج‎ PO ۳٣ ON ‘OG a 9390 
“" یع‎ SON “OM 7 od 
“ve - FIGI OS ON ‘od ik 01 

PIGT دن‎ ON WED LID داد‎ টি 
ঠাস ... 


চে 


গঞ্জ UVGOR [FT 


can [Asy শত wsedomyg‏ ہے 


ping 77053 Un ১:৮১ 


UO‏ بد مظان یی ا نپ راع 


‘jemdso ‘Tene 


الپ تھا نیز 


“uapaajjupedng ০০০4389 


mao “০010০ 
WOM vs128GO 


“09০0০77৮258‏ چرس 


“Apes 


"09 ہہ‎ 2৪৩ 
হট ےہ‎ 2০90 3০ 


70ت“ 


puny JO ০০৬৩০ SY) JO دجتعاجمد یراد‎ ہ6٣‎ ayy چر۰”صصہہ مر‎ ১৪ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


426 


07٢ ور‎ 0017007 Tyg 
002৮৪ ۰ 008 ہیں‎ = anf —Od6I 0ز‎ 815 “ON ‘od ০০৪ ০০০৪৪ যেও 
্ রি 00৪৮7 اعت‎ 30 * 0567 0083 OM “OC یت‎ 061 079 
00০5: টির হর °° OS6T JO FIZ “ON "od 27 0-0 606 
00 = =n 2 “---“ چوں‎ ٤ JO BST “OR "od iil ی0‎ ৪806 
“ad হাডও৩]৮- 
007 - sue aon 026 JO FE "ON “od ane ০১১৪1 206 
کی‎ 005 — 5 "°° O86T مز‎ 25০ “od as ৮০০1৫ 906 
si 009 সিসি کے‎ “۶ GIGT JOSIE ON “od و‎ 331d 09ج‎ 
৫ 009 9 = “*" 6161 مز‎ ٤ع‎ ON "0g ৫ Hild | 81 
: “°C ০৮ 
০065 wes eee oes ہہ‎ ooo ریف نید‎ “ON وو‎ oid 809 
শা ০ এ سی‎ 
00৮৮ eee eee eos eee eee 618 jo 608 “ON od eee IG 209 
004৪7 00৫ = 7 ** 61767 50 206 یرہ"‎ “od دو‎ OWI 109 
009-6% 9 = = ze "২6167 70 168 ‘ON ‘od = 3ه‎ 009 
হর 008 i = بب‎ wen "°° BI6T JO G61 “ON ‘og oe CHIT 66S 
৪৪৬ 00:05 ees aeo ee ee eee ء۰‎ jo ¥SI ০ "od aoe 081 86s 
*৪89739 
pus তেন یئپ‎ 
00s een eee ees een —6I6l jo Itt “ON "og ০1181 46S 
00 9471 eis *** 6161 J0 96 "ON "Od 7 031d 965 
00৮9 ios *** 676 جع مز‎ “ON পণ্যে গা و6‎ 
0089 ০০৭ 00৭9 لے‎ 7৮ *** 61659 55 ON ‘od ice 0ٔ. yes 
009 243 0089 টং *** ۲61م‎ JO 868 “ON ‘od 0+35 ১] 
151و *** وت اوت را‎ JO OOT “ON ‘od ০1710 وو‎ 
٢ গে fayforeg 
"00,۴ ৮ cee —SI6I J° OST “ON “od ১১০৪ 169 
0089 ors = ** SIGT 8০ SIT ‘on od ০০308 06S 
003 *** ST6T JO FOT “ON od OIC وھ‎ 
009 ٭٭‎ ৪6771০719৩8 “od 05510 885 
toe ০০৪ শা 816110 19 ON = ‘og ০২1 os 
- 0069 "** 81861 JO 2 ‘oN og ০5310 9و‎ 
000'ss “* 816]110 ¢ “ON od لنٹ‎ 989 
- ere 007 *** 6750 981 يہ دہ“‎ "0 ves 
5 00৮৪ eee ৪৬৬ رر‎ 21600 71 ‘ON og دوج‎ ১৭ Sez 
000°¢ ٠ُ ™ LIGT 59 OFT "ON od ک چو سی‎ ses 
ہف ار س۱9‎ 902009৬০0৩০ 
00 “““ LTOT JOIST ON یح - تہ‎ স্যর morn pe পপ 1৪৭ 
"৪086 sree *OL-0061 967 
96৪ و‎ 000 5০896 7.۰.۱ "চান 2৮২০৭ ৪৪০ hermit, اہ سس‎ 
لد 71 بت‎ 0 0 
নি 968 598901 8 usoy 9৪ Pun J0 00899৫ ও? শিং 00৬1 کپ ھا‎ ow oy) Jo ও وم‎ 


427 


॥ 1 11 7] 171 4 4 3 


7 ٤ إ٤‎ 


£ :!؟ : ١إ‏ اا1 !١1ا۱ ٢:‏ $3 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


1 Sy PEP ۱٥: : ۱ ۹9 


*৫10$050 ওএস ٠تی‎ 


- - موو-۔-‎ ۲ 19 16 OR 0 "এ. یو‎ ٠ ০80. لف‎ 
or 19 °° 8267 5০94 ‘OM গে "টে ** eniad 199 
৮০ - °° ₹5৩7 5969০ ০৪৬0 رد‎ °° ond ہب‎ 
= ৪ ** ৪261 709819৬0310 ** oid 69 
a 2 سے‎ ৪567 JOIST ‘OM 9৪৪0 ار سے مر‎ 6 ove 
im = °* Se6T JOOS ‘ON CED’ EL ‘I'D * ১০১১৪ Lv 
rage °° 8587 مز‎ COT ON جد‎ "হটে ** oud ৪৪ 
me sis °° 8৪261506901 WED "টি * او انت‎ "99 
রঃ ہے‎ °° 8261 JOLT 5৮ 9980 ع٤‎ ** 073K we 
- ৮ ** مع‎ 50 908 ‘ON یح و“ وہہ‎ ** ond نت‎ 
* 0008ی‎ WIN ۔-۔پرویجھوی‎ 
a یرہ 808 40 8267 سے‎ গঞ্জ) یق‎ ঢু টে ** 9710 89 
7 س‫‎ °* ৪6750 206 "ON اٹ °° ۰ء ره‎ 9 
~ = ** ওত POISSON کی 0٭د‎ °° ১০১৫৫ one 
ক ০ °° 55615095509 জে “LTO 00 $39 
ہس‎ চা ** 5557 JO 985 ON وھ‎ টে °° oid wee 
7 me °° S361 5০655 ON ওক TIO ** oid Lee 
“ o ** 1۴و 76 0۲ع‎ ON کے 0ھ‎ ٤ئ‎ ** ad یئ‎ 
হি = ** 8261 8০ SST ON CEQ EEO ** مو لوہ‎ 
= si ** 561 مر‎ OFT ‘ON وھ‎ >> '0ে "0 989 
= = ** ৪৪875০92198 VQ ZED °° od et 
بح‎ - * 8567 5০ وع‎ "ON MED ১50 °* "0 Ese 
টা - - وق‎ ০ وو‎ ON یع جصد‎ ** ৬১,4৫৫ ১] 
بج‎ ٠+ وو 59 وع‎ ON ایت °° و زدی' ود‎ one 
mr 00 »* seer 59 وہ چرہ' جع‎ হে ٭‎ আগতে নিও 
5 = °° 2615০ FT ‘ON MUO ৮120 °° 985 وو‎ 
0097ی‎ 97810 Lopp کی‎ 
JO mopia چو نان با راو لئے وا‎ 
- es [867 5০ 987 “ON WH ٤ی‎ °° 011 9 
ہب8‎ (8৮5 
5 সা می‎ FO OST ‘ON OPE ٠“ وےچو 55110 °° 0 ع*‎ 
“seq লগ্নি. 
جم‎ = Test 5০ OST “ON ওঞজটে "ও, I‘O ™* ১০১৪৫ om 
peasant) p এত 
II ‘ON গজ Stepy— 
= = 726 JO OBI ON টে “LID °° 016 9 
“ یم‎ ** PEEL 00991 ‘ON BQ ১20 °° oid $30 
- এ ** IZ6TJOLSL ON ০৪0,270 °° ০ 9ے‎ 
۲ژ 0ر مجح °° ہم‎ ON ٭:‎ LID ** “nd 129 
on = ** [86150 ge ON 9৪৬0 "270 °° 06 089 
. = ** [25992 ON WWD ر1٦9‎ °° 07710 619 
= ** 1361 وو مر‎ 'ON WUD LID ° 01 89 
ঢা "১126750850৯ BVO LID * 0 219 
“ ** TZSETIOLE ON WO ১0 * oid 919 
oot ** ٤ئ61 ع09‎ ON গল্0-এ, "0 * 310 219 
si ** مر معع‎ ٤ ی0 وہ ٭ یرہ“‎ * 7710 ۶ 
- ni ** [56119 820৯ BOL IO ** 03310 ৪79 
TeUNG Uy, 1080134077 
ee ** 02670০90160) BBQ LID 0 ‘quepreazrg ٤ 
“ea গম 
و 39و‎ 9901030} 
“Pied সঞ্নঞ্ ০৪০৬ وہ موہ‎ 3৪০0 20 ON 
“29-8961 “26-0681 GO pully 50 009590 O73 JOemUN کر وہ ۳ ج07:عضہ9ہ:‎ ওত 3৩৪ 
ہووں‎ 928 ayo] 998 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


428 


৩৫৯) 


“Wed چیاےویج‎ 3৪৪৩০ 
—GE6T 8০ SOT “ON ۷0ہ‎ “L  > ۵ 


ائیں ہر জা‏ اپ ین لیر 


“ON OFED “ZL 0‏ $6 ٥0ز‏ ]ہےو۔۔۔ 
3 جچالضصی “চু‏ 
তু, 0‏ نہ —GS6T JO ৪ “ON‏ 


"seq 0350 
স্টিভ 5০9 98 “ON 9০ بد“‎ 9 


“০ “ভাত ০০০৪০ 
موو۔‎ JO وو‎ ‘ON ৬৪৩ "এ و‎ 


** ৪561 J0 وو‎ ‘ON 0٭د‎ ১70 
250110 OST ON 9০5০0 70 


° دوہ وہ ہر ےے ON‏ ہر ور ہے 


20 و JO 83 “ON‏ 8590 ہہ 
Beg [3জণভাহ ০৩‏ 


86850 61008 ০৪৩0 رق‎ ۰ ٦ 


"Ped 37 


৮৩750 67 "ON MOOT IO ° 


*s00)m1 ‘neq 1000577 Lofng 


—O361 5০ 507 ০ PEO 20 ٠٦ 


*** 9567 50 ZOE ‘ON BBD * 0۵ 
*** 9561 50 001 “ON 9৪৬০ “ET “IO 


*** وچو‎ 0 8 °ON ওঞভ0 LID ٠ 
eae 926 jo 98 "On 68830 گل"‎ "I "O eee 
. 0261 JO 99 "ON یق“ 0ء‎ *** 


"eq Bequpal— 


** 20" ری EQ‏ یرہ“ 59 JO‏ موہ 


৮০৫1‏ لن یو تنش ریمخ 


۲۰۰٠‏ چ' ند چرہ' 9 مز آھوو۔۔ 
*“ و ری ہت J0 44০8‏ 9261 ٠ہ‏ 
S361 JO 79 ON MODE টে ٠‏ ** 


‘Tad Julfwqued 


"এ. টে *:‏ وہہ “ON‏ 5985 5201 ےم 


“> 92611092 “ON ৩০৪০ "এ, و‎ ** 


‘eq sleqafereg 


—$66T 3096 “ON 9০৬0 এ, [0 ** 


‘Wwe juyfareg 


—S36I JO 84 "০. 9৪0 0, ٤و‎ *** 
*** مع‎ 5০ 04 ‘ON 9৪৪0 "এ, *] "0 ** 


** 956 JO 09 ON وہہ"‎ ۵ 


3و" 
oureyy‏ 30 کو وی 00 10 GO চ‏ 


Or 39880 ৫০ 
সনদ গে 


429 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


it 1 3 


0۲ 


رات 


ٌ 


হু 


(৪৮1০3‏ 90۲ھ(“ 


—IS6l JO 89 “ON MEQ وو ی*‎ 


“ed [svpujogg 


—IS6rzo ۲9 “ON گا" 0ہ‎ I 3 os 


ودو ہصرم “09৪‏ 


7৮561 JO 09 ‘ON ج۰ 0۰د‎ ۲۰ ۰ 


ایز پا(لیرے 


0567 70 6۴۶ “ON OHIO ي-‎ - ٠< ٭‎ 


“09৪ ۲0720706 


٭ یع ری وج٭ود ٦۶ “ON‏ 0٤6ع]۔۔‏ 


500157 “Bog [যাগ ود‎ 


---চ56 90 OF "ON ANODE IO " 


۰-۲0٤0 OF "ON 9) "2," টে ٭٭‎ 


"eq Yeqnpuy 


1867 59 68 “ON WUD - হু." ' 0 "" 


"oq Ise pepo" 


71587 30 ST “ON دہ‎ “LID ٭٭‎ 


* ور بد ویر‎ গল য় Spry 


1667 3০ OF “oN ০১ “ETO سر‎ 
096170 997 “OM ০৪৪0 ETO * 
0867০ 81 ON ০0 "এ, I'D ٭‎ 

*** 08৫চ5০ SELON ০এভ০ * "0 ۰ 


“190 HY ہو٤۳‎ 


—OG6I JO SEI ON 80 E I'D ° 


ایرسیدںپا نیا "We‏ 


—~OS6T Jo 6٥٥ ON MBO হু, ین‎ ٠٭‎ 


তে [এজ 


70৪6৮ JO BIT "ON ۳۰۰کچ“ نہ‎ 
eon 0660 800 "ON 5৪0 লি নি "I ۵ Be 


এ ১111 


ON ০৪) "এ, "2 *‏ 86 مر 0867-- 
وو جن نو ری ہس 
** 0" ح- تد 0৯ ON‏ مر OST‏ *** 
۰ء 0٭٭ LE OR‏ مرع ومچرں' -٭×< 


چچوریمجہ چدہ٭ب ‘eq‏ 


—OS6E FO 98 “ON গড এ و ء'‎ ٠ 


08615072০ 9۱80 “9‏ ے٭٭ 
ON জজ “এ, ۹(‏ 99 مزح موع ‏ -- 


* ے 2৪ “ON জট",‏ 63610 جس 
۰۰ء “ON 9৪৪০‏ 2و 70 وچم sre ৮‏ 


موچوعو* 

pus হজ) وبتوچیی.‎ sousg 
—6361 Jo و‎ “OM OND “L و‎ 
“* یم‎ J $9 “ON ٥ 0 
*** 636130 99 ‘OS ٭٭‎ >> 
"66159 ۶9 “ON ONE 0 

“৪390০ 

pus 8080ء چپ‎ 
৫5৪3০ 19 “OM وہہ‎ “ছু "0 

০৭ বু ০০ 


6567 JO جج‎ ON CMPD “এ, ٠۰ 


HUH‏ ہنروا 
و “OM 9৪0 "০‏ جع 5০‏ موہ ۔ 


GEST JOP ON BED * “T°O‏ ے٭ 


+11 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


430) 


008 ese ae “s0U yur 0৯০50 ئت‎ 


008 টির = টন = oe — Feat ور‎ SI ON MBO এ ঢু টে ™ 0370 5968 
008 ee ese “5)۲ ۲۴۵ 1৫9 
008 eee ove مم‎ ৬০৩ eae مع‎ JO اع‎ ON 990 LID ٭٭‎ 0 Gal 
9 ۴ = کہ 1 مر‎ Geog s و :رہ‎ 
02'S ০045 oe = - owe ০ স্পট JO ۲٤ “OX ও) “ডু "ঢু "টে »* ০571 wel 
2 aA “seq fuoK 1০ 
ع+وون ا یت‎ eo eve ৪৬৩ on = স্প্টচিটিয جج‎ LI ON PSO LED ৮৭ tid ১১ 
0075 7 = ۳ ove oe 9০৪ eon oe = 58150 % 6ہ ٭- وی دہ یرہ‎ Ze: 
= 2 “Ped Vit ا:پزریرین‎ 
000s جم‎ 000°s مب مو‎ eee বার مر وچ‎ 86 ON PMOL I'D ٭٭‎ Id Oss 
01 می ہے‎ ao سم‎ ove One's one one *** ور 1 جوج‎ 18 ০ গজ LID ™ ا انی‎ ٤+ 
ے0‎ om ons موم جم‎ ese 008 ooo oe صود‎ Stel و مر‎ 02 ৪৪৩০0 ০ رو0‎ "5 
٠ ْوچھدرمو‎ (0 HEN expttag 
00g و دو‎ om eve ove چون‎ ove - স্পিড ئ مر‎ ON CFO CL یج‎ ৮০ اللمنن‎ atl 
آ00‎ তি a نت‎ টি 006৭ ois ۲ sie ** 88৪9০ LEON ہو اث زی‎ 016 ঠিক 
00? = = 006‘? ove oa owe we صر 5857 ہب بت‎ 2 ON EOL I'D ™ "0 i 
006৪ wes میم‎ 0069 ee مم‎ wee موم‎ ooo سد‎ FEST PUGS ON و‎ ET’ ** ০5100 VEL 
a “230۲ sasequofig 
00৫৮ oe oe میں‎ ose وی00‎ we oe —[Set 50 05 “ON رھ‎ LID *** 00 7 ess. 
ومن‎ we on 000 owe woe on “ oa = یو سر نو زین‎ *** 1 ১০ 
008. سد‎ aes ose سے‎ - 008. 7 vai ve 18875014108 980 ET" ٠٠ 0 Ws 
00৪ sos 00৪ টি ove ০ - os  ISST OST ON نہ‎ ETO ٭‎ oid 984 
000 وو‎ oo *sOUTU 159৪ fuyseqng 
مم و مو0‎ wee roe ace مز ۲96۲ موہ‎ 098 ‘ON ৩৩৬০ এ '  ؿ ٭٭‎ 0 $৬ 
: "20171105 9৪ 8 
00৪ ie 0088 و‎ - ove one = 567০ 62 ON ও", TO oid ৪14 
ee الخ‎ “deg JUlsEtAg 
000 IT 000 one ows oon - مم‎ ۔-:0٤‎ 70 2 ON 9৪50 رق‎ 0 ٠٠٠٦ ০৭510 4 
2 *200[00 ج58"‎ ] মূ 
]آ00 ۲ئ00‎ হন کی‎ চা one = —IS6T JO OL “ON Of8D کل‎ পু. 7 )0 91 
7 0015 ج39“‎ 777 
جچ"ہوں‎ oor‘s مو‎ eee ees 69৪ دوہ‎ —=IS6T FO 94 ‘ON 30 مل"‎ টি وہ‎ = 07410 পা 
7 شس ینک ذخا سو 98] چو"‎ 
002 T 002 £ ہہ موم‎ ees vee [9 ~—ISet 5০ ₹ ‘on eeu - 3 ۲ت۔ جح"‎ 900৬) قتدززت۹‎ Pll 
ری چو‎ ea গু ry গর "eH ‘eH ‘wa 
موچ 04 94-0261" ون وصووع*‎ 1 ৩৪ 
"0L-006T ۲ “ore! "90-8061 *“ 1ن9 1 1094 8ئ‎ 
06۔ 1ہ(‎ %৪ آ و آوچ 7وج‎ CVO] ہوں‎ aw] 8 “pled 79৫৩৭ 8801 08০0, ০৭ 3৬900. 40 ید‎ 
বেশ %F % 33 শ্য০টে ৪ WO PEN) ৩২) 08390 ہہ‎ 89 ওত 089751016۳ 24? JO গত پر‎ 


Et 


431 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


0-29 


eee ৪661 JO SOT "ON 9৪৬0 ق*‎ 
°° 9661. 70 ۲0٤ “OK 00880 ر3‎ 
860و" ے‎ 06 “ON OFED’ ET 
vee SECT JO ۲6 “ON ০৪৬0] 


ee 26 8০ $8 (OR 2৪0 ZT 


ے' OR 2FBD‏ 89 مز وع "°° 


T’d 
০ 


7 و‎ ee 


1d ° 
ے۰‎ GEST JO 9و‎ “OM BERD °T I'D 


21 পটে pe 


9 


ooq 


‘I ue) ee 


“ee "86٤٤0 و‎ ON 690 “TZ 

৪৬৬ ১২৭] je 6F oy ریف‎ a 2 I و‎ se 

** 2861 JO OF “ON 9৪50 TI’ ٠ 
"۴9977002 

—SE6T JO 625 “ON 38ND ہے“‎ 0 


“ee 99659 91 “ON 95৩০ رق‎ 


*** GS6T JO SI ON SFR) নু, 


0 
0 


٠9‏ 1“ ری“ ۵0 JO ٦٤ “ON‏ 6۲یج 


این ائیز۰ع 8 eq‏ 


—SS6I 30 6 ON 9৪৬0 رق‎ 


** 5565০ OFT “ON SPEND TIO ° 


ও 


juouvng‏ ی090 


—FE6T 70 STI “ON 920 “L “IO 


ایا یو نا “SURIGG ডট‏ 


JO 897 OR ওত ' 3‏ ووعچ- 


197008" 
ویو یلوپ سس اہی 


501 5৭ 89 ON ও) আহ 0 


শে [0০05৬২৮ رگپرنی رھ‎ 


PEST مز‎ 09 “ON ০৬০ এ, و‎ 


6] 5০ 09 ‘ON ০৪৬০ -0,-70 


FEST JO OF 0০৪50 এ, 00 


“* $661 JOSE ‘ON 9880 یت‎ 0 
8৪51 8০75 “ON ۶۱ھ‎ “TID 


“I'D‏ ۰ 80۷و OF “ON‏ 30 6ے 


FEGT IO LZ ০ WED سکرو و‎ 


PEST 2 کو“ و‎ ৩১50 


OUT WORE SEH 


—F6T مز‎ ST “ON 8ہ‎ এ, 


"Fee roo کر‎ 
—FE6T JO st “ON 9:۶] "তু, 


Po 


07110 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUITA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


8391130 PUv 90070 [vw] 11027۴ 


4:08 


005 oor's نت‎ wis —SE6I JO EET “ON ۰ء تچ وہ‎ * 984 
“৪ ۲٥1ہ‎ mon 
009 0095 انتا‎ i 9667 9০ 19. ON গজ) "এ IO * ০২21৫. 84 
= . ‘EC 8308702 وت“‎ . 
007 ٠ "007 ; 9867 JOIST “ON ٥980 "0," 0 * onid 9894 
00٦ ےن‎ 0০0৮% eee 11811 ous ese ove 9887 jo Ist ‘ox 9৪0 گا"‎ I “9 ; oid 92? 
"eq 2551: 
00962 ese nee ৪ 00955 না Pr —9S6I JO ۶۲ہ‎ ON 9৪01] 0 ۰ 0 8 
00669 টিপ aoe 006'9 one ee ese ese om 9৫81 jo SPT ‘ON ase রন I হটে "bon ০20 تھع'‎ 
back ie 00147 on sad eve “* 9861 چو مر‎ “ON د٥‎ "0 "6 روچ‎ 
00۸) eee 6৬ ove ooo*st coe see ৬৬৬ آ0‎ jo 167 "OW ৩৪৪০ رک"‎ 21 "9 ৬৬৩ ০3410 7৪ 
oor vor a 00? = "** 9861 JO OST "ON ৯৪50 * ۰ ° ALI OBZ 
0% eee eco 008 এ ০ *** 961 JO IZT “ON 99৪0 EL I'D * ০5510 6L2 
00888 ت7‎ 20 0909 0085 রা ০ *** 9667 JO ۶۲٢ “ON رہہ‎ 20 °° ০8510 BLL 
চিন وی 7 2 ہی چو'وون‎ ٦ 0و ٭٭٭‎ 59 ৪9৯60 چ*“ * ی*‎ ** 01 Lee 
0+771 ৬৪৪ eee eee ean 07 کے‎ = *** OSET JOTIT ON ٥: ے* (0٭‎ TD ° "06 944 
0085৪ eve ase ہے‎ a 00925 ক 2: سد‎ 98681300102. 9৪৪0 "এ," بیع‎ *** ৪91 944 
5 "We ٣۱۴۲۲۱۵9۹ “tg 
0006 a = 06 a * —S661 JO 16 ON 9৪৪0 "এ, [টে *** 10 ری‎ 
"0 01 1 i 7 0 01 রি - *** 95689 66 ON (٭ 9د‎ ET" ** 65910 8 
15৮৫ 11108708410 
002 nen eee ০ 005 ae = —S66t 59 6 ON OBO ETT "0 ٭٭‎ OUT "4 
009৫9 ০ রঃ 90999 = = ×× 986০ 89 °ON ভে "0 ° ০৪২10 144 
ake ‘Wed Tayfores نو‎ 
0008 ove sei a 0005 8 9867 JO LT ON ود پریں‎ "0 “* od O28 
000 وت‎ ۳ 000°2 om = "8866 FO TON CMD “EID * ০২10 694 
08921 0095 2 006°ST ‘5 و و سا‎ SST ON omD "Zr سا‎ 6 SOL 
006 ٦ 006 4 i om i 95675966708 ×0 ح*‎ yg ٠ 01 202 
"۲5713104 809007৯805৫ 
004 bes vee مج‎ me 002 es نو‎ 7 2۶۵۲10 FET ON (رموووھ وج جج٠ ۶0ہ‎ = quapmedd 99 
ای یع رع‎ ‘wa چو ای‎ "aH چی*‎ or 
“L961 *GL-0L61 0-01 ৪) 
87 অণু ا یسنہ بیدا‎ "86687 pares 
۱ 2961 و9 یه می‎ "00 uso] Xe F 0৮০] 6 “PICT Jreqon esoqm এজ 5 سی‎ 0 10 “ON 
sein و ایا‎ UO pun) 30 00839 9 ee Le বা 
“৬০7 “৪9৭০ 9৮87 U2 مز‎ 901] 3০৪৩ در ووہ تہ‎ ৬05) [epee 


40৭ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


5 "mor ডা 206 35১6] ج83‎ ৪5 


oos's = 7 রি = i ৮৪৮৭ 2 —1861 JO 991 ‘ON ٥٥0 ৫. 1 ۰۰ ৮ ond 
7095 ০ রি ere x 099 7 و‎ 7 টা *** 15860 79 SELON سے جج ک* (٭٭٭‎ ০5210 
ومن‎ রা sa 2 = 5 ০০৪৯ 7 ৪ ** 2۸170 151 ON 5۱80 و ی*‎ পা onid 


"red ریپریں وو‎ “we—zest 


0099 ٦ 5 ৯ 7 اس‎ "009 ٦ = ০ 601 “ON OOH “2 E°D "৮ ০20 
von Pee piel eee “18g | ৮৫২৫ তি eee : 
“maty, OO” 
5 au or mor ispomeg sqPty 138 Lg 
007 রর یر‎ = = 0097 8 ৮৮8৪1 JO OL “ON CED L‘I'O °°’ 00 
a 
07 ve حم‎ - ue oo 90৪০ - ree *** £861 5০ 69 “OM COND 110 ٠ nud 
0 09 ese ete ees ہب‎ eee 000 sa eve ser 4667 jo وو‎ "Oy ৪৪০ "7 7 "9 = ٠ 91 1 
oor oo ad one ve: oo oor সস ove ৮2857 جع مر‎ ON وہ‎ ٠ ٭‎ onia 
007۴ ৯৬৬ جوم"‎ vee eee wae 097 = ee ۶ج 0 مع‎ ON জ৬0 ০], 0 ۰ onid 
a 
بد وو ہر تباین‎ ruyfosey 
0০০ ৬ vee ~ یا‎ 000 = 22 —iS6l 7৩ 9৪ “ON چیہ‎ ঘুম ٤۰09 ٠۰ 9৯15 
, seq ل پپیریو‎ : 
7 7 سے‎ sos ove - 008 ove vee —eef مر‎ Zo ON ৯৪৬০ LID ৮৮ ০20 
শুতে 
ate পিন eee dvjop اید‎ wed ۱80 dvjon গু Bae 

0٤ one o— শত eee voe’s —LSGT JO ZS “ON ও TIO ات‎ 
00067 as ১০৬ ৯০ eos 0০6০0 ہی‎ জজ = یم‎ 4661 50160112550 2৮20 ০ oid 
006 ee - ০ see ont oors = = .ہہ‎ 2961 5০ SI “ON CEN Z ID * 0-1 


ea eee‏ ایشا as ses ‘eed‏ جھے 
07 رز চি om ee CUt জিনিস - ۲ yo 661 on ase L I‏ آ0 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


434 


008'0F ৪৮৬ ase ang چ‎ vee ace 00105 موم ٭‎ ۰۰ SEBL 30 ZY OR, 52৬0 L 31 ۵ 
002 জিত ہہ ہے‎ 00 eo ove eee steal jo ج٤‎ "oN e885 01 a শটে ae 
آ00‎ "peru [ওভার 10 
کچ سف دود‎ eee 002 seo ase Stel jo ৪2 “ON 90و‎ 7 "I و‎ se: 
رہ ٥وت ج۹۵9‎ 
008 f eee oe eee ees ods 004 سیب‎ তে ہے‎ 4 yo 6 “ON ০০০] “i I و‎ 
“£0 Weg 07272709 
00০1 دجھ‎ ৬৬৬ শঞগ ese ےوں0 مو"‎ ٤ see aoe —SS6I JO F “ON ৪5৪০ ‘LI ঢু 
000۴7 eee ese see eee ues 07٢ eee دوج‎ eee 5861 jo 9928 “ON ase) = শু শটে ৬ 
00220 ০০০ ose coe ০০০ oe 00829 ove - *** LEGT 8০895 “ON 9550 4১] 0 ** 
00785 een vee ese sve یب‎ 00182 eee تی‎ = 8867 jo 5952 “OX ere) 0 ‘I 0 
006:8$ eve eee eer eee see 00658 ose ۰ ৪০3 4867 jo 6ج‎ “ON یں‎ Ps 2۱ ‘a E 
01 چس + و‎ pe a 0017 7 7 ٭٭‎ 861 JO 855 “ON ০৪জট “L “IO 
007 ee eee ese ee 00৯6৯7 ees ose ss *** £861 JO 8S “ON ০১০০৪] 0 
002 ہیں‎ ৪ owe وچھ‎ eee ০0৮ eee ove *** 2261 JO OSS “ON 0 و 1 *ٴ‎ oo 
00s’ ts ose ove seo eve eee 00878 oon eee een 86 jo 623 “ON ٦00 "L I 4) ee 
00৩7 سب بب 7ن0 سب مو" مو‎ wee 0০ me 8567 yo 6 "ON مل نہ‎ ‘I ۵0 
“৪397070 
pus dog 5০৩৬০ 99:7 
آ00‎ on ose ee oes eee Oot Goo eon 1ئ-‎ jo 906 “ON 8900 “L I "9 
"Freq jujsawmeng 
"00 eee Se eee وضو آ00" لئ وجھ‎ eee —J$6I jo 902 ‘ON eB گل"‎ 1 ۵9 
শর ہبتر‎ 
002 ose wae seo ove بب‎ : 008 ae نس‎ -]1 jo 003 on 09830 “LE I ۵٥ 
001 ee ہم‎ ons sve = 00897 سو‎ 7 ٠ LE6T JO LOT “ON গজ ٥ 
0019 রি = 7 = ৪ 00719 রি ae °° LE6T JO ۶٢ “ON 95৬0 “ء٠‎ 
“Berg ئا ند‎ 9এভনি “Mg 
নিলে - 7 - mes on ০০০৪ ome ne 2861 50097 “ON OED “LTO ** 
7 "20017 ‘seq waysY teqre 
(72 ৬৬৬ 00% ৮০০ io ৬৯৯ ove oe - 26۲10 29۲ “ON ভিজ) "ছু," 0 
7 ~fouyur ‘seq ৪1১। 
002 ৬ 005 ৬৩ ہے موم"‎ one = 9غ ۶6۲10 -م‎ ۲ “ON ৯০৬০ "LI ‘DO 
چ8‎ ‘a چو‎ সম rz wa শু کڈ“ اع‎ 
7 
"LO6T 90861 00967 "2967 ০ 
و۹دج*‎ 0০ 0৮০] Use] ১১৫ ! “TOY 


5 T °L6-968T "৮৬৪৭ 1979 9৪০, 
THOL ৮9590 5০৪ 5০৪ b A Kis 508 0٭ا 5 این‎ %g 0০ puny مد‎ ৪০৪০ oy) JO 90৪)  دصزاترکدجسمچ” ہہ‎ JO ওর [7399 


406 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTR, JULY 12, 196৫ 


۰ 6৪61 9০ جو‎ “ON ০৪৩0 "0 


“۰6801 0ڑ‎ 868 “ON ০৪0 EIQ * 


۰-۰ 6867 JO FE “ONT O8%) ؟‎ ۷ 


“* G86T 30 LT "ON OPED “YZ, “IT'D 


"“* 686T JO 2٤ “ON و ےح' رہہ‎ 


ভগ 6881 jo I ‘ON 9৪৬০ gi এ a | ণ্টে ee 


** ۲۰ء“ و٭۱ہ یرہ“ جج 30 ৪৪৩1.‏ *** 


aes ص1۰‎ jo ৪622 “ON 80 ر5"‎ I و‎ oe 


eae وا پر‎ jo STZ “On WO "এ, "I و9‎ ee 


*** BE6T JO ۶ “ON 0980 ئ*‎ 


-- ৪৪৪7 مر‎ 905 "ON ০৪500, >٥ 


* 00“ 0٭ دہ “ON‏ 205 مر S861‏ °°" 


*** S661 JO 661 "ON 980 ETO * 


٦٠۰۰۷ء2“‏ ۸:80 S861 JO FOL ON‏ ٭- 


*” S861 مر‎ ءء٤‎ ON 9৪0 "এ, 0 ** 


JO 6ST “ON ۱:80 "এ, “IO *‏ وع ٭-- 


ove 886170 SOT ON 0 “LEO ° 


ہو پک وہ پر یں ےہ نو رز ان و 


** ۹0* بد“ GOI “ON 9৪0‏ مر S86T‏ -٭- 


০৪0 "20 **‏ یرہ“ 001 ور معع °° 


see SEGT JO ZL “ON 3980 “ “3 se 


হজে চান Wervs 


--8৪6চ وو مر‎ “ON BED EID * 


ee‏ 39 آ۹ گی "ON এরি‏ وع S86I goa‏ برب 


০১০০২ میہ_‎ 


Pig হুর হু dad ad 3 


3 
8 


sebagai: 


i 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 


430 


OOF 


آ00 


90৮65 


“wa 


"2961 BOT 8 


0 7 


یی 


اٹ 


‘wa 


“OL-O96E 7۴ 


0097 


“7H 


967 
[م-‎ to) 8 


00% ৪ 
= ۱ 
000(٤ 
000°T soe موہ‎ 
آ00‎ 
٭ھ فی‎ 
0098 ০৬ 
0 
86965 
& 
چو" چو‎ ea 
"3961 luvoT 5 “৪9৪96 ৪৬০ 8 "46-9681 0۲ 8 


+۰ مر 0ئ0‎ 19০ ‘OC 


টি 50 LEON OT‏ ٭٭٭ 


- تاز چون‎ St oN (‘Od 


POR ‘oN “Od‏ 0۴۲ ٭٭ 


“* 6801 P6IT‘ON “od 


“stq Jeumy 710০0 
“6361 0ڑ‎ ৮6 ON “Og 


‘eq نات نچ‎ 
02610 $6 9 ‘Og 


৮৩ 
688170 99 ہزرہ"‎ ‘og 

وو رر 
০5 ‘og‏ ج0 مر 01ئ6 ---“ 


“* چرہ- وہ مز آ68‎ ‘og 


"6861৩০89০৮6 ‘og 


°° 6861 JO Lb “ON আটে ‘Zz, ও 


۲۲۶ 18ز‎ ০৪০০৬ 


WO PUDj 30 Ustad وید‎ JO 938 


9570 


mf 
রঙ 


৬7710 


04710 


ONG 


oni 


-yeunqulL 1312 


"8 


£938 


asonlary 33076) 70৬০7৮ 9৪ 


“2059 af ]دو‎ 


zo ‘ON 
mo. 0 0 সেজে) [398 


20122107010070۷ ও) مز‎ ০ 


437 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 6 


002°61 


000°S 


008৩6 


0098 


00001 


ین- ৮6159 BE OM‏ ےے+ 


+ 


ہو وو“ 
mvay pow ৮‏ 
‘oy = ‘og‏ و —It6I JO‏ 


WOLJOz ‘oN "০ 


are tn OF জা 
—OF6T مز‎ ISI "ON 


“OX 0d‏ 997 90 0" بب 


1001670 مہ ار تیج 
"0g‏ * وو 39 —OF6GI‏ 


‘Ped Weg کی سپ‎ ‘wg 
—OF6I JO 681 “ON “od 


“°° 0639 SET “ow "0d 


ئی انہب ٹا :زا ائیں جم 
স্প্টা6 JO SSI “ON ‘od‏ 


৪,111, دیو رسس نا‎ 
—OFG6GI JO 657 “ON “জে 


*** OF6T JO OSE “OT 0d 


“TFN 


wuednay £ .‏ .ور PUY‏ 7۰۲ا 


—OFOT JO FIL “ON “od 
°* =OF6T JO FIT "ON od 
“° ]6ئ0‎ JO SIT “ON ‘od 


a ir ہس‎ a 
(Pet چرں- 601 کر‎ 


“wed feredmg 
067 ১০ GOL یرہ‎ “ed 


““* 0৯7 JO 68 “ON ‘od 


“*  OFGT JO FE “ONT “od 


* 067 JO وع‎ ‘On ‘od 


OF 


195৪ 


618 


9৪ 


028 


STPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


438 


000° 


0000৮ 


005 


8و0 


00761 


000°T 


00987 


004 


00091 


"01 


“জিতে, Ivan Y Jig তি‏ مھ“ 


= —Gt6I 3০ 4g°ON SVL তু 0 ٭‎ 


™ ن٦۲"‏ رک' ن8 JOOS “ON‏ 6ج = 


LID =‏ 3٭ا 0“ 296130907 ০»‏ وت 


»* جو مر :وچ‎ ON 95৬০ EIN ٠ 


টি 


sac - چو مز یچ‎ UN OOP LTO ٭٭‎ 
~~ °* 26730 8 ON 99৬0 TLIO *** 


۶ث LI‏ 90 2008 مر یح ےہ .0087 


“arg‏ ہت نیا یں و 


১ ری یرہ‎ ON PQ TE ور بت‎ 


0095 *** [16030 99 “ON ০৪৬0০, *0 * 


THOT JO SP پر‎ টে LITO ** 


doe ‘tq 10h اس‎ 
--]۶۵6۲ 0 86 ON 9৪50 "এ, 1 0 ** 


“* 6139 98 "ON ৪৪0 *এ, "দু "0 ** 


= چھی ے-‎ JO Sg “ON 2809 “L ۵ 


١چ‎ 


০০ id 
0907۲ 498 ام‎ 1181190 99০০ . 


: 


: 


7 


Id 


07 


*‘TeUngHY, ان نا نی‎ 
“۰ WD) +20901993৩ 


8891501 ]8 198 
0 "۰ں وم39 وہ ظ ]امت 


569 


88৪ 


UO puny JO 005390 ভ Jo 2০1 নিলি: ০ 


439 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTH, JULY 12, 1956 


000°T 


॥ 


§ 8 و اوت 


°° PFET JO ج6‎ “ON “od 


IO L “ON ‘od‏ نین 


°° ৪৮67359277০ fod 


“SOYA 5 mapa 
—€t61 JO ٦01 “OX 


S461 JO 68 “ON “od 
۶٤٤ مر‎ 2٤ ON "od. 
“padeieg চওওকস 08৬1 Tens] 


ON ‘od‏ و مج وو 
49009“ 
ا یں FUNTH ayn,‏ 
—SI6T JO ZL “OK ‘oa *‏ 
fo ‘OM -od‏ مر آوجع ٠‏ 
ARITA‏ اسنا জার‏ سج 


—ST6T JO 6ج‎ “CN 


5675০ 13 °ON "og 
سس‎ “AO"Y WISN Ciposihog 
ی[چے‎ ZT ON “od 


400৩‏ پر9 409* تصجمد” 
সী ৮০ তা ০ ‘od‏ 


“200107 Br ag or ; 


চিট? JO SI “ON 


“ON “od‏ 6 مز جع ے 
wed ۶۲9008 ot‏ 
—St6T JO 12 “ON‏ 


শুতে 100101673 
یج‎ JO 29 “ON ‘od 


বুজতে আদ on 
—€E¥61 JO ig “OX 


= ‘soujur আনি sean ens ‘ye — 


é 


রঃ 


95780 


KUNG 


0 


5 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


440 


00997 


গু 


‘TS0L 


01 


10101542594 ey 568 


BOT 8‏ 00یو“ 


00৪ 
00297 
000°T 
00S "9 
00295 
0055 
0" 
یا‎ s 
00697 
0098 
00 
0, 7 نے‎ 
یع یع‎ 


*OL-0061 0 KP 


008 টি = 
"07 = 7 
"0 7 مت‎ রি 
آ00‎ — 
0079 = 
00408 নি 
002 Ces 
3 

ۓ 00 

‘va‏ چو چو 


"৪৪ UveT ومد‎ 298 "s8er ۲ 2 آھوو-وچ‎ uvol 8 


"ea 


*১6-9691 ৪৬০7 ৭6৪ 


০, 
95 JO 8 “ON "od 


9761 3০ এ “ON "od 


101700820 سس ا‎ ag Pp 


০৩০7 ۲۲800۳ “ag‏ ےل 
কা JO ۶ “ON "od‏ - 


‘Bed ved پر0 ق03 0ا‎ “Wg 
—CT6I JO ৪5 “ON ‘o"d 
uans “Ug ج3‎ 

Fuypueyy ٦ 
—cret JO 61 ‘ON “od 


19 ہی تی و ون ہا سس 
JO 6] “Od‏ آوجھ۔ 


9৮ 50 LT “ON “og 


suIVsyg “Wg 79‏ 10[۲رو- 
JO OT “ON “og‏ چھچھ۔ے 


** পা JO ST “ON 2০৫1 


SHY WES) ms 
স্স্টটিতা JO হত ‘ON 


JHV Wye مەر‎ 
وج‎ JO 33 “ON “26ND 


“Ped یش اث‎ 
—gt6T JO FT “ON ‘og 
ے۰‎ GRGT JO ST CON “Og 
ےہ‎ 973০ OF “ON “og 
SP6T JO 8 “ON “Og 
963০ ۶ ‘ON “od 

o‘p 
“od 

TP‏ پر 

7٦‏ مل“ 


ও 11811320 9016 


aaa وی‎ 
GO 3ا5 509130 50 50ع‎ JO তার  <۵0998]0707۵ oy} JO کر نہ‎ 


955 


পু 8 38 


44] 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


"0 


<۰ ق+ع‎ JO یع‎ “OK 


৪ 


“*" ع٤0]‎ JO چع‎ ‘ON 


£ 


““" SPOE JO OF "ON 


& এ 


““* SFEL JO SF چرم‎ 


“ag‏ جو برا و ار 
—S¥6GI JO 88 “OK‏ 


vee مر ا6ج‎ GE ON 


ag 


ت- وم دت۶۷۰] Byes‏ 
“OK‏ جج 39 পয‏ - 


০ 


প্রি ত্র & & A নর ث‎ 


"১ 867 JO 78 08 


“"" BEL 3080 


--- ۓ مر ]8ع‎ ON 


8161 و مز‎ “ON 


280100 1F “ON 


** LFGT JO چو‎ “ON 


JO ۶6 “ON‏ ۶6ےے 


& 


** ৯639 OG “ON 


& 


۰ آھور‎ JO TT ON 


5 


2۴6110 8 “ON 


& £ 


“ON‏ و JO‏ آ56 

"seq jUNgSAVIfeH "0৪ در‎ 
—LF6L JO ক ‘ON “od 
a 

‘uuqquypes fourekeg 79 
آمیر۔۔‎ jo F ‘om ০৫ 
We ک۹‎ ی90۳٤‎ “Wg م-‎ 
چھور۔۔۔‎ JO ₹ ‘ON يق‎ 
*** 96 JO Ze “ON গে 


** 6 JO 8S “ON “od 


"eq ۲3۶186 ٠تو .ر٭‎ 
وو‎ JO 67] ‘ON ‘od 


"Bt [09285 “0৪ 9 
৪67 3০ 97 ‘ON "0d 


79 نوا شبین و "ped‏ 


٭ "০ 2560 "ছুটি‏ 1ء 3০‏ ام6 و-- 


oid 


oid 


L¥6 


8&6 


£86 


CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


۹ 
و4 


۹ 


SUPPLEMENT 10 THI 


442 


01 2 ০ ৮ 


** 9 JOST “ON MELT ٭‎ O79 686 
- (Gr ১ ৬০ 0867 مر‎ কহ ON CR LID ٭-‎ Od ৪৯৮6 
এ *প্র0 00] ,0د 718 و‎ 
تھ۔] تنس رتو تھا انا ۶ین‎ 
0071 ie ۰ ا‎ we —0S61 JO SE ON ۵٥ LILO ~° oid £36 
‘UEqqNgpEs ভজন গুযভও০ PP 
00 1 ee سے ہے‎ = 0681 JO ZI ON 990 "1 "হটে *° 0 936 
009 ৪ ই - 0৫9 کر‎ 8 “oq ** omnia ৭৪6 
00৮8 ** 0287 ج مر‎ ‘ON OED "20 ** 0840 6 
৬ 40g چ-‎ Tepe “Pp 
0060৪ ۰ 0867 مر‎ ‘OK WHOL IQ °° ک0‎ Sse 
eq ۵7ت‎ ৮০ 
sia 0080s 5 = si 096 3০ درو رای نو‎ -* 0 £56 
007 7 এ °° وع 30 وع‎ ON 9৪50 “EIQ °° ০20 186. 
0026 2 = "" 6673০ 28 ON 9৪৬0 LID °° 0016 096 
009 ee @ ee ee 6F6L مر‎ CR “ON 68D 2 ee چ0‎ 626 
ae 0088 = 25 ٠ 6ع‎ 50 89 ON 9৪0 ج۰ :ت۰‎ *** Nd 826 
0016 ষ ee ee 617 jo CL “ON 98 “lL 7 9 ee 01 6 
002 ee ee গু ee 6۴61 JO S¢ "ON S8BD ١کہ‎ I “টে ea 0 06 
0009 2 2 ০০৪ = "* 6F6T JO 19 ON 9850 "টে ** 07310 96 
sie 0012 * 7 سو‎ এ ** 6৪7 30 ۶ع‎ “ON 96৬0 “EL “FQ ** id ا می‎ 
: 7৯০৭0 :پاپ‎ Nypnig "1০ 
% ~ 007 ۳ on স্পা JO ۴ ON 95৬৩ Ly °° ০330 686 
008 پت‎ ٠٠ 66109 68 “ON ০৪৬0 و- رح‎ ** ০571 846 
009. . সা °° 6٥0270 ۶8 “ON SEBO LTD °° ond 1£6 
০0০62 ৬ °° 6F6TJO BZ ON 95৬0 رک‎ '0 "* 07310 046 
মগ = 0068's اق‎ 2 °° GOT JOST ON وت . سا‎ onid 696 
“S100 چ‎ 
MAC WRN 00০১৭ প9 = 
004 a سا‎ 5 =* —6¥6I JO SL ON ০৪], ابو‎ ** ond $96 
00৫% 5 جو موثأ‎ pax জি "6৪73০ آ9‎ ON 9৪৬0 ٠حج رکوہ ** وچ‎ 296 
006৭৮ * ٠ 7 °° 686১০ ০2২95503০70 ** 01 996 
تا بی لھا دیج‎ "৩ 
ےت 0" و‎ ৮ —6t6T JO 9 ON MEQ ٠ج یع‎ ** od ৫96 
7 ৯৩৪৫ یع :با اک رنو یی‎ 
2 00152 on و‎ —6t6I JO 9 ‘ON 9) "তু "হটে *** رکوہ‎ 5 726 
9009৬ 0370707 
009৪ os si و‎ রঃ ننس‎ FOF ON 868) “Z "0 অন | তা, - 996 
ا‎ ‘wa چو چو:‎ wa ar: 
"ট্রে ٠-7 0-017 “967 "099 গা 79948)01 
৪ آ0‎ 4 UOT 0০] 0907 20D "০89 “LO-O6FT “PIG 31 ر و موہ‎ 900 40 ‘OK 
8 تے‎ 2০৪ نک لا سن‎ usoyT Kt ات‎ eee 


BO pan) Jo 50620 oy} Jo نم0 ت7 جیرم رہ چروردہ‎ O47 JOeTEN [398 


: 1৭২ 1 

7 0 wy 0 দা 7 ঠা) 
Wy 0 0۷ মা 0 
11 0 ue 
17711 0 1 0 
if 0 ا‎ 


tt / ee 


۲ 
ts‏ ا 
0031 و ا 
7 


GE 
ai ; a 
7 ۴ A 
07 ا‎ 7 Pe oh ) 0 1 یا‎ tl 1٭ 2 3 اہ‎ 
00 i 000 09 20 0 0 a 71117 ৃ 31 র্‌ 2 17 Ae ٢ 
LEO ۶َ ۹۶٣٦ ee 


۹۷ 
ey 
0-۵ 


0 


na 00 ; [21781 / 0‏ ا 
Wi 41113‏ ا 19171 اک 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAILCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


‘wa 


"টে 09 se0k oF 6 


me 006828 
00৮" 
007৮8 
0095 রি 
8 
00958 8৪ 
0069 “ 
02 2 
: 4 

009৪7 ese 
0029 
00 Zt es e 

= 000'06 : 

چو چو Ta, Ta‏ چج- 

67ج 9061“ "L061 UvOT “$L-0L61‏ 2961" 
عإِيٰڑ چر' ک۰ 280 چ: وج و uwy 968 spuog‏ 17 ,2998 ۲۴93006 8 907 


00-05 


“*" #G6T JO TS “OW "od 


1০ 65০ وع‎ “ON “od 


“Fed treg qpoqy “as 
"P—PS6I مز‎ OS ON لا‎ 


“ee کہ 2 30 یع‎ ‘od 
**১ جج‎ JO FO ON “od 
۰ ৪৫63০ CE ON “od 
"ওজন YUN sey 0109 
2001 Jay 50 দহ) sv pus 
5 10} IQeq ۲1868 VTeuley 9 
7596 Jo 18 OX ‘od 
“paswaoop چو رعجور'‎ [VT 56 
]معرزجدء وہ )34 330382 مر‎ 7  ) 
[জানের 00৬ [91 ১১৫ ٦ 
یو جرعودٴ‎ Wen একক jo ھ٦‎ 
০৪০৪ JO FE “ON 


—SSs6I JO ٤ج‎ “ON ‘od 
বাস ভর, Dif WIEN 


*** 8967 JO 03 “ON "od 
ے۰‎ $C6T JO LT ON "od 


6 srenoford 7 ‘Pp 
_ 8৪০6 مر‎ SI ‘ON 


اخ سس ابق پر ا ہر 
01০ ‘od‏ مر چووع_ 

“৪৯১1৪, 

-_-৪390$0 paw 7796116 ٦۹۰777 
مز ۲ قوع۔۔‎ ٠ پرہ‎ ‘od 


MAVTL ۱٢۲ ۲1۶7000 138 Ug 
—t961 JO OL “OK ০ 


০০১০৯ قد‎ 


5967 70 & ‘ON ‘od 


vee MACUL ۲۲ 3001000 1358 8 
—6S6T JO وج‎ ‘ON ‘od 


oud 


95710 


১৫১১৭ দি a 


—ZS6I JO وع‎ “ON "Og 
“ee 81وج‎ JO OF “ON ‘od 
ese , jo cy} “ON ‘od 


2961. JO ع٤‎ “ON <8: ن٭‎ “LTO 


“PLAY JTeyeq ০৪৬০৬, 
GO PUN] 10 0084০ ০0 30 ও 


পা” ১095 ভা 4901090] 
হাও০৬, وہ‎ 8০০00 0 
20187705101070۷ ওহ? JO ০০৪৩) 


SFOT 


হাওা 


08 


486? 


"ON 
[15 


449 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


"9৮67 سد‎ “000 965 "26-9681 090 YE 


ww 6 4tHadsIq 6 afquyzwag ٭٭‎ 61 


B10q38‏ اب رتو 
-seqY jo পক vq}‏ 


203 یہام‎ youll soq ‘yay ‘gq ** 025] 
11111: 
میں‎ | Atasuadsigy দিস : 
০ pung peg emasayg ٭‎ 017 
ping چرچومیع 1825<00810ۂ‎ *** 0 
25179585175 L109 
“লব ০1৭51190754 *** Od 
৬১৫০১ Fe Aree 
“Usd 310857278510 feysspusyg ٠ 011 
پائسیز ٹچ‎ 11 Indgapnseg ٭و‎ an 
“Uap 67102976089 چردرہزدہتدد‎ *** NG 
“puna Area 
“Usd بر٭”دورد‎ md qspneeg aa nid 
pa Aivsusdag رو و سو‎ 0 
"CHER 00قجحءی- اس نزو‎ 
“UGH حعحیمحد رورںیسرببرہ‎ "ডলে مسجرہدو‎ ۶1:4 
وا رز لئ رر‎ 
Auspduieyy مر‎ puny 49৯3৪" ٦0 
کی ار‎ নি 
“PRM 94) 9০ pang 4৯00 0 
2 ٦1٤1813050۴ 
720000810 jo puny ٭ ستجّسولہ‎ 06 


Ayyedjajuny auupdarey) fuspd are 21900071810 


*** 9967 چرو- چو مر‎ og ৮ onid 
-- آچوع‎ JO جج‎ oN ام‎ 5 0315 
"১9987 مر‎ 18 “OK "od = oid 
“" ৪9150 ع‎ ‘ON ~ ‘oq , “* وہ‎ 

9961 JO 9-9০% ‘od : 0611 

9961 JO I “oy “og 01 

(50172) “53710 [ype 

*" S61 JO LIT “ON "od ০717 
“* 61ج‎ JO LIT “ON "od 07710 
وع“‎ JO OTT “on ‘od O31 
"** FST JO BIT چرہ-‎ ‘od 3K 
مر 06ع ٭*‎ 28 “ON ‘od ٦ Ord 
"CEI وو مر‎ “ON ‘od 0 
কয یں رم وج پر‎ ound 


THEMEOH ج9۲‎ Ug  ‘[TUNgGIIE 183203۸623 
—HSEL FO 8ج‎ ON 250,770 -Wl چ٭زدھ٘وب٭‎ ০009০ 


“9U98 ছা 1892940] 


: JTeq2q 25০৬, WCY 02 ০৩0 20 ‘ 
m0 puny مس‎ soared bas پچردہ کو‎ 202290০7330 پردصاد‎ ০৪ 


MENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


٦ 
4 


SUPPL] 


446 


"00 1 
ای‎ ‘Va 
*SL-OL61 
oe xe 
"d's ٤8 


"0L°000T 


Tt tae | 


00 


“pang 2800, 
491০০98 BONHwWwupy AUNT 


*a10dtBJ3aC 
‘wyideoH হা, ۱٤۴ puny 


এড aye 3201 گاج“ ]مٴ‎ * 


“ywaH 3011:1188 (yey 


-4[qQZo00y jo کا اتا [۶13ازان‎ * 
٠+811 সাবার ہرہہ۲[50‎ ° 
pang yal [নন 11501105۳ ٛ ٭٭‎ 


Pehl | 


9১ "‏ 05ط VE‏ ۲5۷[ا9د]مدی 


001 ۸.دو- 


Hey] usuig *‏ ۶وی یں 
aks YReUIsiy ae *‏ 


ارم ار اچچ ا ںآ pung‏ 5 


(WUT aarg‏ عدومم- 
UBYANpYS  eprvyAame Jo‏ 


6ٔ 


Ud 


oid 
011 
০571 


৫1381 


Cyd 


01و 


1 


কা 
90৮ 
ait 


Tort 


0-17 


41 YBooH ৯৯৭119০০660 


eiodwwleg ‘Geoking Jal) آ6‎ 


PIUVUIUTEU Sy) 008 103٥7-۸00٥ * 


1یا اشئقی ائین 90710 ০০৪৪৭‏ 


* 08 
رنع۔برہب:×: ین قلدہ-‎ = JequIEYY 
مم٣‎ ۲:0۴ নগর সর 


pong <eamg * 


عہیدود' 


230115911010 ‘seq پزمرهتوں‎ aot ° 


7ھ ۹4310 


৪15১ ভয়ও *‏ چردجچبدداجد“" 


“senduus ‘foc 


Seppwsci1g JO ০০৪০০ - 


804 
আহ.) 


এড 08৬1 -‏ 2 ى٠‏ یلیگ 


"78018 18 3077 
9104100827ھ‎ PAF 7158, )1018 


19০০ 111197 WEN eipusmgEg * 


“٦٢۶۱103۳ “০০5০5 
১0111, ٥١00ا ح(‎ sJndauedug 


uy pung !کہ‎ bay [57062 yreug * 


"এডগার 31087:13 
e jo ওতে ও 


49] JUOWACPUY ৯.1980800 "Dg * 


"20980119147 18 (yesusdsig 


ہ٥‎ ۷(إ4۷۳١09 ٭‎ JO ৯১২৪৪২৪3০1৮] * 


“SIVYQIVIGY We Ae 
৬৮511 د٥ تن(‎ pisog 


* 8 ہ۶ 1اتھ jo‏ 28806 00150 


“pang 1571 জঢায় 


121۲11115 মু so aaeuajaqyupyy * 


*Aresuadaiq [হ্যা 


jo SIUBUIITIUR *‏ 90110 ور 


pap 


98 £35909%া] ٭‎ ٥ہ‎ 3دا٥۶اتو(وڑپ‎ ٠ 


pung (৮21২1 [হাহা * 


Aresnaisig 27,1০১: ۰٠ 


1 یت کی "Taree‏ 


** پر ہو:١‏ تہ 50 ۹٥د‏ 810078110 


"PION JIVUZQ یر اتوہ‎ 
we puny 3০ وو وراں قزدتعہ0‎ শাহ 


92385 


*4(Q300H 
৮১৬১৯, 2১11৮101088 
4562380007 یں نا رل8‎ 


eea এ Lit 
Pung Aremadsiq >8 ج01٭0‎ "০৩০০৭ 7ءء بوجصدو‎ 


"0৩৪ ভা] 8৪৩ 


3৩৪0৮ WOYA وہ‎ 3৬000 6 
5005-551070 o43 JO 90০৬] 


4801 
9608 


9507 
60۲ 


447 


MENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


4 


এ 


SUPPL} 


oot 


000‘t 


00৮ 


00৮12 


0085 


0099 


002 


mg 


اج 


"sy 


71۲ 
-ہ‎ KE 


607 


نات 


oot 


0011% 


oo TS 


005-9 


"626০1 “OM ও0-4 ×۳٣ ۱۰٠ mie 


نئان 


و 8615০ FLOM WD GE DY wn nud‏ مہ 


۳ يہ If “Og‏ مر تمکعھ کے 
۴+ 1ہ J0 OF “OR‏ 261م کی 


চির £261 3° 89 ০ম 4920 68 PY 


soe ০5750 Litt 


ace omnia 9 


8179০274০8০ ez [٣۳‏ ٭٭۔ 


اناو یسل لئے کا 
17 ؤ00-.ڑومر “>1<00 pang Joey ٣:٠۸7 Teaping আটে‏ 
চা‏ 31ہ = quimcoy‏ 49390[ ٹم -— 
4 4 
اب ap ০০,‏ 


“puna 
wide [29090 | quaoy 
+ 


“puny 101, 
1০2 ভে) ہیں‎ 


PE ee ung تاد‎ 00) 07۰۴ ٥٥٥ 


8200752727 ০০ 


ais 0 0 
7 OTIC 6811 
০০৮ onid SOTT 
“en ۲30ر‎ F “104081109 2 TT 


“quae ہُوەمصدو ہہ‎ 
GOYA 0} 3০০৪) 2০ 
705751010707 2g? JO 9২৩ reid 


SUPPLEMENT TO TITE CALCUTTA 


448 


GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


a 


"9/0261 8٥801 RBs 


৫ 


"9861. WOT %FZ 


080 


ای 


we 


vow‏ مد TIOT HS _.. pup‏ ومو-مز- 


-- pong ৫07০3570799 wpuyuwg " 


-* )9,972 لہاان نا 


“dings 
uspnyg تہ‎ [715 


“pong }WoULMOpUsT 


fv উস) এও ~~ 


‘puny [euowls জা 


[ভর pus 90 اد۲877‎ 7٢ ** 


“pany 


~~ متا تتادھتا 008(0 We‏ 


pung 


PPA PPS uweyoRW poy -" 


puny [ডাক ০৯৪ ےرامہ‎ [8০0 


اھ دس یی را سان بانچ puny‏ °° 


AMT 0-01 
০০ 61 
OI 801 
OFT Zeit 
OFFI رو‎ 
01 gett 
977 Fett 


“£1qB00 


507ا ۲1000 20}3* 
091 چوہقرج جد ٭س۰- گل ر7× دت×د“ PUNT [710৯০] GuAyNG‏ 


بن (০০৭১৪ ছ-ছেএএছ31‏ ایت رن 


“pang 


emg ucedmogL amang ag ** 


pang ses 3519 ওভ 9৬৪ ** 
এাঘ25০759 wuyepyequayy *" 
ت(ہ۷0]‎ ۳ refevau0oy ** 


গেছ] voy ٭‎ 


"৮০০39 


wT ৪8300) 790টি °° 


“20186110 yerequr 
zo 209589০1054 pee সপ 


—Ppungy  atinopag چرتجدرن‎ °° 


pung 200g wimsuyy;) 


“PSY JTVGeq oye مه‎ 


সে] HepuosenA ۰‏ ترجہ 


০7 و‎ 
وت یہروہ‎ 
0 £310 
01036 817 
Od Sort 
01 wart 
01 81 


۲ چردقبعو جہ' ئزممھیء 


18:18 ک0 


8০০ 40 پآ"‎ ৭010 
ہت پا با تل‎ 1 


“ক 1‏ 
رہد 39200 وہ .0 [0وددہعڑ 


oy} 30 9০৪) (০০৪‏ ×0 تہجترمرتارجمد ‏ چروسو مر ڑا 


449 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


روویبرہ رد ‘Aseetedsid‏ 


0008 ; ii mdqey 50 3০৪৫০ *" , OIE Ur 
$ 118903916 কপ 7 
ত JO 99060911] ভ৫৪ পির 
00002 ھ0000 و ہہ عو‎ 0007 aig OLMOOUT.L Pry) onid "0 
لا‎ 
سیت لب 007 رب سچھ‎ “০৭০৪ 150790 CwisyD ا‎ 7 00 "0 
Ss o0o'ss soe oe سم پت ھا مس )9 ا۔‎ oid 811 
91075375900 Bury ও] کو‎ 
وھو‎ cee eee -mopug sepsucyg) কাছেও *** ৮০118] 491 


10৮: 
نک و‎ 0520206100 পণঞ্ 
Be 359 )02ائئاودہ‎ 075001 4০] کاچ‎ 


0,9 = 0005 = سی نز ہے‎ uvuvyousg --- ০100 99 
"puny 2 ওযা &,0[ এগ 
0 ove o- دہ‎ en onid 911 
وی‎ ban Sato wey 11 
3 وو‎ at : o و‎ 
| nc مک مہا نال‎ er 
oe 1 1 ee ۶ * 
000 و‎ 008 ¥ 008 © i pial | Ossry ৮০১৫8 Sore 
00০1 পে শি frend 17 
১ 1৮০৯৬, 59 
00৪84 লগা یں‎ fon itd a It 
40¢)npin آ‎ 
0007 Bd سن ساب 80148110 ب1‎ od tee ne 
see oe - qeasy °"* ۹ 0917 
“rndysure y ia 
ای تی‎ pec aoe : 
eos ৩৬৩ 4 cee eco চা ১১০1৭) RTP Ipusy wa ave 
"rnd ا‎ 4% এএ এছ 8 0 সিন 
00511 اہ یں‎ a سس‎ 0 
- 54ھ‎ 
008 02 : “লী পা puy کو وہ‎ 81 
ae ৪ oe @ jO ৩০0৪70751 oy foy 
re wile 000'z! ০৮০ eee کر و8ر یہ9108‎ juvtamopuy **" enid 29101 
: ee *৯ MA গারজ্ঞাএডড0 ০8৩৮0 
000 6 sige چا‎ ভা) 0755 نین رر اق تر‎ ৫৪195) *** نیس‎ "891 
" ۱9ک‎ 7٣ 
jo wuvaqnuyem 103 soy 
eee 000's مر 09011 وریہ‎ wUsdIMOpu” *°* 07 ٤ 
. “SITeqINs) 
০০০ یو ںون‎ = ye 0 Mrwsuadyiqgd  ہروعرسوچ‎ ٠٭‎ Ont ۶17 
cos 0001 پر راس ھا سو تھ بری نمی‎ °° 037 ৪97 
“pan ৯৩৩০) : 
006"% 00৫48 2190030516 چلررصحب وع ئن‎ ٦ md sett 
“জু FAHD ৯7250 "৬০ 
os -- 00051 20] 30252 0100 6تت‎ OD VY چمعوتع'‎ PWG ‘UMD 7ء‎ 
ae , “C161 JO চি: 
7 مم‎ 009 SE “ON زقثت ق ہے یس ین نس نت ےی ر٭ە‎ 
ات‎ 
Ze وو ; 0021 6ت‎ “ON ০0 Ul ٭٭ وردت٭تق کر 30۳ر‎ AQSOOR ‘eBpur-qng 6711 
- si 000'F mee nil عصدەمہ٭ من ۴تإمہ‎  ٭‎ 06 811 
مہ‎ nee 00S سے‎ wae “* ঞ PURZ IVP ت8‎ 000110 QMS ٭‎ OFT Ltt 
دہئ یر پان‎ 
06078 oes ooo پچ‎ pew 19০5৬ “wane 7 পচতে 9777 
Puen ee ooo سد‎ 2: wall لئنننزی سو یج ور یی ھا رن پور‎ 911 
“011193 030076 2017 চা 
তি oie چون‎ aes ৮৬৬ -UlUPey pus 80د‎ eipavqg *** 0 উচু 
ooo me 000 ee i. ia pung 2০0 چیسےے‎ ** 073 81 
- 20 00৪ 7 ivy pos 2৮৮ ০০০ RUOTmAIPa بت‎ 811 
“۲8570۶10710 چود33ک‎ 71000 
40910 rezydecty 
a 00L TI “e «—pung جرمھا رو‎ 29100000 9 yerequrvuy 4rm212-2 FIT 
ا‎ ‘we a ra ایج‎ ‘wa 
و"‎ 092 × 4820.20) 01 
0870 চু ۲۷3ر بعد رع* الین‎ 98004 0 UIC 02 WOH 30 20021 N 


سو سو ا ماھت وہ 


JULY 12, 1956 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA OAZUTTH, 


450 


90852 چو‎ 7 oa 00682 vi ** pony رو ری نچ‎ SIENG Uso mM *- 0 1ئ‎ 


7 8420ھ 0500 2500 ag‏ ند ر8 الہ [তাক‏ و oi sh‏ 003 25 * 009 


: ‘puny 1০০১২ -uoadmg চে “ডা 
006۴ 2 006 7 ৫৫ ** 15190 ০৪551 [এটা [ভর = ‘IuomsyuM0Q 567 


“‘pung (0০795 ‘pang pop, নঙ্গাতিহান 


0087 Ares’ I a রি নি 7 2772ا‎ useq পা হনে জি হু 3G} JO ৯০০7৪070, 1877 
“Pung : 1ءء ہژمسصب۔‎ 
005 009 ডে رچعتہ اهت‎ ০৪৬৬০ IDO ۲۴۸۵405585 ٤ 
مو0‎ 3 00৭ و‎ ais চা 7 puny ۲۷00073 ভর +- 67 اقلت‎ 
OOF ee 00? ee e@ ee e@ puny [Some 29758 رب‎ Ong "8 9 71 
এ "quiaoy 
. “pung diqyuepnjg ত্য "৯৪9০0 یھ‎ 
00491 sf 004 OT ۰ بج إتتة8ر٭  رتپ ۲ھ چمحد پٹ کت‎ "এতে [edueg ‘fediug LgIt 
"qulsoH 
: و07“‎ 09۳ এজন্যে 
000 £ 2 007 a ৪০ و‎ si 0110002۳ Areiayry ‘jUepelg pues ওজন ۴ 
“puny 
0007 5 =e Aa: = 000‘T ০০] 9৩139735010  ہ٭0-.چ٭‎ ۱٘ ** OFT 8911 
2036ا"‎ 8 : ~ 
005 = ns =a 008 sia ely 7390 8800 wien *" 017 ৪77 
002 پا‎ 55 003 7 [ডা 2৯০72 ভন) tuysiy CT” OLE ات‎ 
و00‎ ee ee ove 0036 ee ee SIGIQF] ওসি ~~ (elaoy ۵7830رک“‎ 1 
“pang 
074 ah 5 008 jy ais [2০০ 287708 0۶۴ات تک‎ ৪4১0৮ *" 0 "81 
১৮৬ ৯০১11: 
006 4 008 67 ৮ নি puny sz [ও Feu ang ywaoH = ‘Jose ০ OBIT 
১ 
00৭ ne 00s as we 2۳ 9৩700 “সত پرد|ھرہ٭‎ weg ** ৫1188 677 
+٣3-261 JO 6S “ON ৩৪৬০ Uy 
008 am 006 ee oe se ۲737111701108110 [এটি] °° ۱ئ‎ 97 
رت یت‎ 
ও০7০০২০৫ এট] viqoq he 
OOT ee آ00‎ es ee se UCN puy 830 8 H se OVIC Lzit 


00g ee 00 ee oe ee 5 puny 7৮50, 77018 wing ٠ ond 9৫1. 


“‘Uploguy ye Aresuodsiq 
‘ وق لیئر رباب‎ হা 


“Sree 
“Tadd 95780) Bary 3৬ 
RIV ۱1۱80008۶ 0 ۶ئ بدھ‎ 


0098 ৮, 009 ٠ ٠ ۶ ا٦ت‎  دج‎ এ৭ ‘pung چم‎ -* ond ء٢‎ 
ودئمں 1810810ہ‎ van H ‘precd 
۳ 1 منےن۔‎ 
00০৪ রি 000's 7 * = چارہ ودنا(‎ ures ی200۳‎ ۵01 ২১০৪ 2972281 ر٭٭جہس*ہ'‎ SLIT 
ا‎ a "a a va ‘va 


সদ 9 4 
[৮7০ “0961 1 و‎ -]013 Avyeq 9৪০7৬ wo 9০৯ وہ سو مہ‎ IO ১0 ON 
0 س.سدوسمین‎ “ever 0ت۵“‎ HE "৪7067 050 KE "S$9-8961 ৪৮০] ৭6৪ “26-0081 ৪০7 8 PED 20 Uosied yy Jo وچچھر نرعوسعچمد  چرویدہ‎ ওহ) ور‎ AEN «WY 


451 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


৩ 


00 & 0০066 

0068 006৩ 
ےو۔‎ ra 

کا ہیں ৩১০০৩‏ 


চা 


می ٭ 


easese 


ہویم 


ہ ہہ هھ 


eteess 


eseeee 


مر بب 


و و ھا کھ 


ود ہ !ےھ 


وہ ویج 


وہ ٭٭ 


ہبداود ھت 


5৪০৪৪ 


ودھھ٭چھ 


2৬টি ডাক 


৮ ৬৬তঞ 


‘ “HR 100173 
এত ০৬০ WEN سب‎ 


৯79৬ আন 197৭ “Og 
ریزپ‎ 
‘peag 2 نلاس‎ g 


٭ ےدہ٭پ” می 
٭ |seq jueiwey‏ 570 


“Pung 3۸0903051 


৮০০৮৮০০০০৮১ ٭..‎ 


"185011587 


শন ۰ص٤‎  uoqueq ٭..‎ 


“pang 1 41801 
49৫00 parog ویوہ‎ শি 


۳۰۰۰" وورود SpUQoD‏ ت258 ۳۴۷۲۷58 


onid 2221‏ ہہ 
me ০770 52‏ 


onia 3۷ 
TeHoms yy رر‎ এল a onid List 
সঞ্জু) 8 5 মর wen 0331 927 
Pung Aivsdadag کرجوہ ٭٭  ومبجہر‎ 81 
পাম্প চি یں‎ 
pung Aivsuadgg wag °° গো ৪127, 
و تد‎ কি ans onda 882 
এল] ০10৬1) আতর Ont হাহা 
Aresuadsq ০থঘাওগ্যণে qreyo, ond "01 
~ Pung জলা শত و لہس‎ 0316 601 
“puny ود‎ 
ای نل یس ڈگ دہ رین‎ ০17 gest 
“puny 
dyysrqoqog بجی‎ epee, Ovid LOZ 
pwoyg ০০১১৯, | سیر‎ ond 90ST 
০০০৩ Arwvuada روھگ‎ oma om 
drestedaq جیوءتببہد‎ vreqday গো چ٤‎ 
07107017 ع5‎ wou Cig 07 
“puny Alvsuodug 
تچ‎ vom = Indusypregop On 2051 
Pung eg ০০ট ٭-‎ 011 10st 
৬35৯0 وی سس سز کل پا ہیں‎ oid 0027 
٠ *pung 
Aresuadsq pivog ০01) wiqaq ٠ oid 66 
পপ - عرووہ‎ তয় 
pung چچمہەم 95 4د۰ت‎ ٠+ একার 4671 
ও্যাস১০এ pus کی0‎ এতে সা a انت‎ 9677 


“i708 
-Gadiig ۲د‎ (7۷۳70 indusazvqg 


JO sureagr‏ ٢ھ‏ مس اکا 


“alodvuprpy 
“‘DIVOH ১১১৪1 UVC) 7 


402 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


ہو وہ دھ 


eeeean 


Oo. ج-‎ ০৪৪৬৬ 
1 
5৪55৬ 001 
০ 0028 
رر ریب‎ 0909 
৩৩৪৬৪৬৩ 60017 
00069 ৮০ 
ک٭اھ‎ 9 006 
va یح‎ a 
99-S06T *L6 
wee] 8 امت‎ 


*** چر٭٭دہحبد ےد ہبہ SH‏ 


Srestodsiq از ایی دقھ‎ [শি 
“pang 410008-327 588 


০915০ چرہ‎ ০৪9০৩এপ্ানটেত ٠ 


dIysIEpOYIS 4৭1০] 
“TuNYOoR چردوع‎ 


‘aofreqIeyeqd 237৫ Vapuamy ** 


ور ور ہا a Argstiadsjq‏ 
705 یت تبرووتے 230 عدہفوا* 
jfJULIg‏ 8010050981 کدد 1990۲ 


۸4098008101 ج18[000‎ ٠ 


قد|أوور گ٠‏ 
aq}‏ نہ0( جبر9ود সা‏ 


jo pung asefouupucueanq £ 
رف‎ [9০9 ঢোখগযু eee 


“Tepe 


٭ wy wou wy‏ 0ہ 
see see [তায হেওল এস ave‏ 
وت پا ا نوز ں سس 


ایی 
১৪০৭ 83910 ۳‏ (ذ۵2007] 


azodwupy**‏ 00 د3ہ 00ح 


یدانب راج 


630 peso 37ت‎ *** 
[9০০ 23510 pesolg ٭ دب[‎ 


“drqs 
“wp, fury weretypoy 
“pang 3০11০ 


210717000 eyez sodeupmg *** 


| এ ১০০১০ ৫, ০০ রা 


*&এএ ডা ওত 


"গা পাণথজাাওভঘ0 ০৩০৩০ *** 
puny [৫1০0 (weg ٭‎ 


Pung [জগত jo viey 


ای نز یرس دا بی نید 


“এছ 
7000 ওত ہ‎ 51073390719 


200 = Cyeiwuempuedy ** 


“PUNY ৪০30] ارت‎ 


৪এাটেহাহ ভা 0٦9790 ٥ ہہ‎ 


চ৬ডভালেন০ چر‎ 1099300 7 
1৫০৮, ১৫4৬ এ 


৪৩11‏ 8-۔ 


0360 ج۹٭)تھگطط“ 2ع‎ ٢ 


016 81 


"Psqepraan 
শক্ত লে তাজ LET 
onid 91 

“peqeprys 

oe ০৬11১115৫11 
ও হাতও প্রভা তা?) 287 

; “auod suprg 327 
5৮০৮০ 5و0خرز05ت]‎ 6 2 
3 0 Cher 

এসএ 7000 
13300 Teuopeyaypqug হা 


0 7 Test 
07 "040-81 
07 ২৪ 
0. ۱ئ‎ 
پچر 1×0 متد“‎ 
0٭د و13م0]'‎ 
wodeapay  ہدوہ‎ ر0٥‎ 
20:800 چ7ہ‎ ‘juaprag 1۔‎ 
ک0‎ 9627 
0722 و و‎ 
04 best 


“azodeuprc 
9০11০] wodgupixK jo 
001ھ‎ 8৩70390%0 ‘yuapreary Essel 
od S861 
0791 Test 
کہ‎ 0951 


6281 َرقرہ ردہ وہ' sIodvuprA‏ 


‘coma ০1০১৭ 41১1 

ا ا بب এও তোঠঃতর‏ 79 
الپ رق پپسسیسبا 

0301 روگ pus‏ ۲0ح3 

PUY ser Leet‏ ینہ۳ مھ تاؤ! 


45:3 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1958 


7589+ * چرمی بچوووح- ریئزیوا نر 
wsoduvyleg “90411‏ ی8۔ +৪0৭1 120 3০0] দশা নত‏ 


তায “۲50693706‏ رمیں۔ ৮ soq UyereusipucBor ভাতে‏ 0 90115 رد یی 
arodeu ‘pa “4d‏ 
“a Hd. of‏ رب aoe‏ ,6 0 
9৮০1792১090, "0 1 “ya “4০০৪‏ فلنن نلزند 00091 17091 
"মা 08‏ 
os ٦ vs ০ ০০ ٠ ond‏ 
کہ one's = or ** glodulvqieg ۲١1کہ ispeg ٠‏ 
پر لیئر رانا 
781[ رہ 00353 
5৪971‏ 1000136۰ تہ“ 010 এ উজার‏ ‘ 
ve 40-X uutwex ৬0094556 -mag [sydsopy ‘418321008‏ 00009 
een mid‏ :ئا aoe 0009 1 eee eae ese ৫0792510128 UVqIOT‏ 
৮৩৩ 0001 = at *** 199907 ০৪7০: aaodueqreg *** aNd‏ 
ا ای *** ee 003 = ane ra pony [spo ofzusqowpe‏ 
পা‏ 
“98০‏ 
.ےت شس ہے آموہ- ০৪1০০ aodureqieg‏ 0[۲۲8آو8 ٠۰۰‏ 5و 000৮1 ae‏ 
1০০93 75517 ৪,7০5 8‏ 
ae one Bl pang [09 :0018004 “** 0‏ 009 
رالہزینںٹ.ٹ 
saodwuvysegq তা‏ ر01٭تررئبہ ۰ 
০5750‏ ٭٭ Pres, OSG Ofer! ROUTE ও‏ ویج رید وی 'ووں see wee‏ 
“puny ৫87‏ 
OK‏ ٭ Mad [0া3, Wid jaeq‏ ع91011358]۔- ote 000 লী কির‏ 
peyepryamip °° oid‏ 10ر یں “an‏ مہ von 0009 ews‏ 
“pun 7 [eps 0০775800190‏ 
00 ٭٠٠‏ ۲ر 3ت]٭ 00s an 5 OOD sequr 2১১11৯‏ 
اوار نے পো‏ 
onia‏ فو سس نت 7ھ“ 7 রি‏ 0082 
“pubs‏ 
হস) 5৬ 0936‏ ادا ارم eee eee 84 da‏ 008 
036 و و سح 316“ 7০০০৪‏ 006 2 000 
WIN eyjeyy "* VAI‏ کڑکررزادتإدہ 19০7‏ کی eee ove 0০061 wen‏ 
ee ace nd‏ ج35 ت97060] out see 000's een eee eve pung‏ 
fey ae “vo এ WWD Ipuyy *** ANC‏ ے os‘‏ 
‘puny 19043, Ves‏ 
pe ae [9975 ٗ, ۳0 wWoduwyiIeg "" 0‏ 0082 
Pequpssin py 03ers ou‏ روس iid al‏ ون 9 si es‏ 08( 
JO 97৮৪ sya +" 011‏ 93وا 00٥۴ 0001 হু ঢা‏ 
٣ PEK jo‏ 512990 
07 لپلنتی رتا راو 05 }34 تنب 
٣3۲0 J‏ 
fey rr বশ‏ 
8 
[৮০০0 ০৭৬২ এছ] 18০2 wang ০7515‏ ر0 
ہ۶ عو JO‏ 9061 
ep ut ভাট FIV ভাগ ৯৬‏ 
Ai pesg ropenh JY 208 754৪৫ 0111‏ £ 000 7 
“FUER Sepesuey Jo ৩357‏ 
‘tyes iffey ٠٠ OIG‏ جب سوہ jo‏ ود پت নম‏ 0007 
JOSE 1‏ 3۰۳و *₹6৪1 JO ٣‏ 
od‏ ++ یهت ٣3٢ ভাতে‏ 00د 99- এ 00776 a ree‏ عم 


580:7 75ک) - 


হন 91ہ‎ 5০79) ۴۲6۲ مز‎ রর 9۹ع"‎ 
یں‎ 0018 = রি 179 1901101 0 ری‎ ON ں وویردوع صوقہ“ چُرست ببرحہ۔ جو‎ 
= 0081S se ven 5۲80یہ‎ jo নিউ স্ব quoy, ٭‎ 093167 
-۲0587> 58 ৩০৩ : 
چو‎ 008 2 হন QdeiZgel ٭‎ jo ٭-- چرو صود:تت‎ ~PRQUPTUSIN] 3০২৯০1০) 
“ra | چو چو۔‎ “a 
“9036 8] 1اوتدعو‎ 
>7 4-7 “opel "৪০৪০7 “£6-9AR* "গেজ হাহ لہا‎ ০০০7৬ uO TOYA 028 212007 10 30103 
usoy 86৭ ৬০০ SF ০] ৪০০ KF টেনে 8۴ wee] 8 Pun JO 009320 944 Jo یہ‎ eS]UFWUPV 203 JO guren 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


454 


‘Pony ر۶٣‎ 
CB শি Mew ঘঙ্গন্0ে چ٭ چر۔‎ 0 4081 
we mw ee ۸2۸2 ۹ اسسسجسہلمسچ‪چگ۰گر۱ءءییہریءیوی٦‎ ۃ٣‎ ۱ 866 Hq 0غلم٥ٌجج٭×چ‎ pus 8 OFF tT 9087 
০০০০০০11000 ৯৮৩৯০৮ ane ০০০০০৪ ০ সের Tepe وجسڈوو‎ oid GOST 
দর ০0৪ এন শট PUN [wpe weregy uyquirg Oi 907 
ہس 00 وم‎ রকি ~ puny [WOU 5০৭%81৬ু oid 80৪7 
fees a tae 004 جرمصعجور کیہ جو ہی‎ apa 02070 عجووہ ع-‎ cost 
“pung 
তন i 007 پوت نفد‎ UL গত [50588 0 0 Tost 
ادس لھا یر‎ আযান ৩৪০০0 
তিন 001 ences seeone WEN SGmpasqed jo JUsMaopuy جحربە ہگ‎ ‘Tedmunmg 00871 
*JOOQIg ,8516 ۳٣٥23870۴ 
JO S178 زہ‎ Sajid বিশ 20 
Peewee چٹ رپ‎ G08 ৬৪৬৪৩ Geoees «ung 185031] [0২09] ভে ۶ eon ould 6631 
yooueg پ-‎ ‘A ۴+ چہت٭3٭‎ 
۲08 ০ سے‎ Suypreae سے‎ 
লন 009 ৮০৮ puny NI], 7ھ ع۳۲-06003]‎ 07 0-7 
“puny نین‎ 
ہیف‎ ے٤‎ ے٥٥‎ ৩৩০০০০ গন ৯০০০০ ৯ کچ‎ 00৬০০ BUN VS “হাত ৬3195 wussiq 262 
ران رب‎ “puny 
eneces 008 : [ন্ট wg ت٥َ‎ অভাব *** oid ان‎ 
pang مت یچ‎ 
نیت‎ ee ৮০৬৩৩ eos [5০০৩০ OEM OufBquINg *** "0 17ج‎ 
হয “pung 8-41৮/, হী رو اپ ریا با مت‎ 
চিতল oor رر‎ ‘ Hd ں رے اھ ھا لزرزں ر ا :اد یدید‎ peo zt 
٢ sss wo eos ০০৯০৯ ma ss 990۲ ০02০ *** ভ্যান “98০4 wim 5687 
Wi ১ :9ۃ 1111,1111 141-11"۹ه1ه1هب401هه1هههههه1ە4ە‎ = pong emg ¢204ey, ** انت‎ 36ST 
سوشتاہ‎ me a 00 ৪ পপ ওত 99 pung 0 چڑہ ڑونگڈا‎ aed 57005 eee ১1018 [6271 
ae 905 PUNY তার 34107 আগতে **. ی١ آ0‎ 
"চাহ N الما‎ 
مم‎ wee سس ہی‎ 90৫ OJ ہہت‎ ۶۳۴ Upuig 1০0 jo 2-019 1 PLY 6৪1 
ہ12‎ JO ৩০7 
2৮7৭1477775 کر‎ 009 arte sx 9০৮ 004010 10} ودہ‎ 1১350 HVE 732308777 “ভাট 5০3০০7০0897 
তাজ ۴ در‎ doaydn oy} 
2০০৩ 11100000000 ৩৩৩৩৩000000 চেল کہیوو! 495 مع ٤ے لے ا‎ uouresimg ٭ںح‎ “SPU ‘Ae Tedjo 
7৮2 000 ہیں‎ Med ۱587670۰۲ Aq uonsuog রাহা এত “UWULWO) 1 
89892989 ee ee ereees نی 1:16 8ھ‎ 
০০৯৯৯ 008 ০০৯৪ pung ۸5055181 eqqeyeyg "তান কতজন চাহ) 9621 
“STRURT 38 ۱الت‎ 
مم‎ ete gaa 997 WUD Supumg jo souvusyurey, **. ond 1 
اس کچ‎ 
ہے ےجو -ۃ ١١ےے ...ےت 407وو9جتظھ‎ x he 5 
؛؛++++؛؛++ةةة++++++++++++++++++++1 1ہل‎ سس٣‎ 909 760৩ ০০১1৯ 8 jo JU ¥UsOTE RY ena oid ۶-۶-23 
ভাতে FO صروریوور‎ 
OO mmm کے‎ 2 = চা pang N 
eee ee 000 ۲ andunyny 2 ০ لا‎ ‘pivog 911 ری رھ‎ gest 
Beeeme 2 2 ہے‎ germ ¢ N Bk 
000'T হাতে] 0د‎ গাজর IeBeutig 090) 5৪ 
va ০.1 VE ta wa 
: ووںو-‎ gy 7902030} 
9161 02-0061 “গা ٦ ۴191 رح‎ 7 Two 2 ৩০৫৬৩ | “ON 
صں‎ ৪৪ 0ت 50907 و تد‎ Ks nwt te 0د‎ 8 Pan سا انام‎ 90 তে جا سان سڈ‎ oq} JO ওত ০৮3 


aE EE A و پ‎ I EA I PIT PLE ہی می‎ IE ITT LE AT 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


سھسے 


PURE ety £০ জেরার তাও fone SR: sret‏ ہد ০০০০০‏ ہے کت 


00011111۹۰000 و‎ ৪6784 ০০০০ جع ہت‎ ০৪০০০ এখনও ond vst 
eecere sss oe ececce وا یبد‎ wig Uppumeey وو‎ oid Teer 
“puny 927 (vqpenyieq) 
eesees 6و 8دوچج‎ ong 0م‎ 7 চিত 4mqy] 20g) rd ۶397 1(6 سے‎ 02590] Over 
বি ৩, ھو‎ ttt an fepen Avy 809 ywuerpasqg *** onid 61 
দি... জি دم سویڈ چون‎ (Psy ینوی چردەمب:ئ‎ oud 817 
pang PIV .Saepayg (éreu 
wees 0 60৮2 serene টা ০৪8৯০) ০৪০90 روہ 5وت3‎ oid £951 
“Pang زی نہر ناو‎ 
و وجوم ۱۹۹۸۸۷َ)َْ وص 2ھ‎ ০ ক eq sakoumotr § yusreysyy ০০০১1 9551 
pang 
রত ৪0৭ ৮৯৮৮৯ ৪৮০০০ 7০০৫19 [ome 3] "টে و‎ ond 2651 
কা ১৭ 0038 سمل‎ ٣9٥2رو‎ 1০১০ 1111 ontid vEett 
oe 10000 70 6042 সস موی‎ peng وجکسدەہ وحرْقدمع‎ (চাল ,-- oma eest 
০০৩৩৩ 0 emt 0088 ای وین‎ pung pusdnsg etd “সর "থু 607 2851 
a ** pand ০০০৫15810০0 predeuig +++ کے0‎ Test 
= raat core لحم‎ sestee Pang pusine Ey ور‎ oid 081 
و موہ بو8دچھ‎ 003s 019م 5715 سو چا‎ CIS A "0۳٢ fag 92 Pi rtrd 6ST 
Mee  ۔۔ڈ سی .۔ ۔ ' ؤ_..‎ কু ہت‎ ইল ** pang সেও ‘pqOom رہہ‎ "”" onid eset 
wee ase gig, gm جقفقفے.۔۔_.._.۔ےے۰۱.۔۔.۔ ۔‎ - pung puadng ۲٢ iaiwaq ~~ وو‎ LEST 
0945 ১০৭ ৯, sis 
002 সস بت اس سر‎ উই 
'ہ م ہ9111 17ر‎  ٌ ری مد 6024 209 اہہ‪ٛ‫ ‫ ۰‫ ے  ۔_۰_‎ pas চুসে) rd . یم‎ 061 9 
21558 9048 serene ০০ peqpnoy) چر٭ىتء کہ‎ ০0 81 
٠ ۰۰۰۰۰: ۱۰2 22خ3خ‪3ڈ7‪7ھھ,/٥‎ aa 6068 خرن ں توب ہد‎ ৮০ সা oMiqg ৮2৪1 
+1 এ 9০৫ ۴ڑ 0بد .ہہ 88 ند‎ [5৫০9 ০ 0وہ‎ 29267 
+985 act سید‎ pang Ieper ০০০৭ Tey 87ء 07 ایام لیڈ‎ 
শিব 002000 aa a a -6ےء6ےے-ے ے ے‎ 6-5 pang ا رن اتا‎ easy e on 
908 “pun ع٠۴‎ sis 1 
۰ وجع .0 31پ,1111111311111‎ ৮০০০৮০ ا:تڈاشات ای ۔ا ید‎ soy ১১০১১০০7581 ০0547 0881 
7010111,1110101  1111101131111111111331 ০৮ pung نے اھ‎ MANU ۔‎ - 
پرمچوح جج جوو‎ 0011 601 
yee ag سب سی جوں‎ mprqeg ید‎ reyquiEg” ایر‎ ond "81 
৮ ٹین‎ ০৪৬০৪ ক pany Pen 0315 07 1ظ‎ 
99 ٘۹990+++++++++++++++++++++++ +11: 111111111 1,11,311 :ا :۰٠٠٠ی ےر ٹٹٹٹ..0110101111۰۰۰‎ [ডগা اسشساتا ابچ‎ 0 
009 مسج جس‎ 9161 
Ree 004 70 ا یرھب یی ا رر شا یں[ سس‎ 08510 STEéI 
eecene 00০07 ডগ ড ৩৬ ১2৫11 eee pung [তা rayqowW ৮৮৫১০, eee 3وہ‎ FIST 
উজ ك٣‎ ١اا گ09" نر رز ''٠'٠٠٠٠٠٠٠٠٠٠٠۰٠٠۰٠۰۰۰س۱ قٹٹن:ہ مکتتت مم سہ 1 آآ‎ ভতগ ننررز ف‎ ১১১০১১1১৭১২ Wey a41700770D pul গঞ্জ 0917 597 
ھھھمچھ‎  }=— ৩উশভজন্জ 609৫ aecgne ৩৪৪৩৬ puny ۲3 0907073۳ ا‎ ‘a ecu ond ZTE 
IPM We 20715 
০০ ০০৭ 2ت سیت‎ ০১ چرجوجسٔوکر‎ * 6 2১11 
mooy ١۱٠ہم‎ eee 
78 কক ০৮ ৮২০০০ (Arwasya9)) a8afjop رہ دٗ‌ھور‎ oni 01 
“150 981 
angers Mad لت تھا‎ Omid 0667 
জগত 00000000000 জ্ওককত 000 31 4 x! 
لہ‎ sm oo جات ہہ‎ Tepe SA TEN ওএস کرد ہق‎ প্রান 9087 
TH اع‎ 7a ‘Va ta 


“2095 ہہ‎ 49070;T1 
নি ‘i 7 T “246 “pied 7۲۳۳۲30 soya co woqe 03 4৬০0 JO 1078 ‘on 
woot S42 wore se? weary") ا یت وو ہووج- نگ‎ ৮ t Puny Jo 2০গএজত oq} JO eurey সরাতে مد‎ JO omen 2 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 06 


456 


607. 


00 


9007 


002 


= me) 
নূর 8০ aod 8৪ 


"এন ایپ‎ 


ےو 


মূলা‏ اب 
FIT‏ چرد٭ج چرہ مد“ coded‏ پرہیقعسوع۔ آ Mey ০৯‏ 


یلیل لس پس یب ینا পথটি‏ اسنا 
وع نجرد জ্ঞোলছধ্ছ wo, ০৬০৫0 "ছু alodmmieg‏ 


'আ0৪3৭ 

Wo) “৪০ ওএস 91১০০ “৯৯ onid "827 
>.ر-‎ ہ٢۴‎ 

7981 61 *** 1۳ ا نظالنت “৪৮০০৭‏ 

4yyyedpjuny, 25 ٠ oI 07 


:ت30 گے“ প্রভা 7-৮2‏ 
তনু) 6৪‏ ید ا سی سا یں وت 


اترك 


7و" 016 *** eau‏ رمع ج٭××دإدد ےیمبدہ 
“diqsj}aepmg‏ 

oT ০০৩৮7 WV Bneqy *** 0 867 
‘Tepe وہ کیچو٭ورجامہ‎ 

-qis 006 sofmuyg seq adig ** CO جو‎ 


:3 
وو مرح‎ সপ 
ঢা গত ج٭×إدہ‎ suq widig چوجوسر‎ “9৬ بیع‎ ٤, 


Aresuadng 92358 swuetivg-+g وسقممه-‎ TAL) ۲ 


457 


তে 


SELES চাই 2 সস ০১০০১ موک‎ GL ہج‎ GIES ETE EL ES ICE” কা 


A উর সপ ied Ae পপ সস ০2০ NS GE ৩ ES Ye Sey শি Es eae! 


ae ee nn on সজল 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 19656 


০১ 
0 হা তা ও পপ আর জো 


aS 


চারা 
আপ পাত 


“Fepjoyy uo 


"18 ০ 85و ٭‎ ong *** ong. 84৪7 
খাজনা 78۴07 ۳٦4 **” یرووہ‎ 8٢تب‎ 
رئا‎ 
رہ چجورہ‎ ۸0888007 
৮০ ۶وہ‎ 9508 ** ০5270 128 
id bed ie’ 4 


HVE, pun svagg ppeq “" swauBreq-¥Z 4৩০০৮7০0 0491 


~weuvSsug-75 8 
pang 9৬০ چرصسزح۔- چرہمتجدبڈئ‎ mdfeyq usuuqD ٢ 


"wD yRATS ET 


গত یئ رھ رر‎ 20} সেন স্ডভহ355-1-72 
Wig pus ىہ‎ 9০৮ پریمججعر“ ۲ع‎ PIRI 5967 
“‘sBUVBrEd-7z ‘prvog 
UIC 24} مر‎ puny yuapjaorg * ১ LOST 
শসা جب‎ JO 90০91 [তাও 
og) 0} 457৫4) dupquyp jo 08 ond 996 
‘puny (res 
ا ا‎ ভা wy ৩০০৪ O731C ৮১১1 
Aresusdsiq 4 oid POST 
پ نل نس نع‎ 
35 এছ গান) ‘preg per رج جسہت>ه؛‎ 9921 
চর mpsqeg শভজিওব-চত 7ٹ‎ | 
ওয়াট উঠতে SpE جم‎ ADR ডন ںیپجدھ“‎ 2961 
Died ہمت(“‎ pees qyeys ٭٭٭‎ NG Tos! 
“ Deg رہ تب وھ‎ একনি, peig *** 016 "0 
مر ورمبت وجعمم‎ ,‌.8 oid 6957 
-5093000 
“00 ভাটি =—s_« CaP sid ارت‎ 
50192201000 ۷00۲ہک‎ "টে 1৪ Hid LSet 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


458 


لیے تا 


৮৩৬৩৬৩ 008 sdcces O8T 5چ13۔‎ “উন, প্রতি 0× 0 ٭٭ چچوہ‎ 
০০০০১ § 
Jo قحمومدرودہ‎ Jos yea ۲210ء‎ 
wees — یہ‎ ৮৩০০৪ ool ০০০৯০ শক ফণা pus peg ٤79108110 yen; * 


“TI ‘ON 32 0554 এন 
-ave Japan 3৩5৩০ 9০০ 

venues O02 ৮৮০৩ ০৪ কব ৯৬০৬৬ ہد‎ paw ند۲‎ erpueyy 2৮5 °° 
“৪৪৩0০ 72০059123৯8 
‘Guys پچرمچو!‎ হাহ puy 

OO 01075 1111001 ৬7০] wey *‏ 1ھ ھی 

e 

০০০০৪০ sss ww (0৮৪ ہمد‎ ০৮৪ djgargogos াঞপহ كٌ(]]9]]تم,‎ ~*~ 
“puny ৫1097070015 ০235 20 اچ‎ 

00487... مع‎ 24549 -puey আগত 00م‎ 0 TH ٠ 
92]د-‎ MIO 97589 JO 1051093 

Senses =... বহর jj -  ‘e@oee. 003 eveses رہ گتہ۔ محمد‎ 7০0 ج9‎ ওযু Wg °° 


“PYI 
eee —— mip mi ০০৪ ৭০৩০০ ند‎ “oy epmyy “95১5৮ Faweuwy_ ** 


"৪০স্শম 
ماس ہیں نیل‎ A0Y 
৮০ 2.ت٭ سن سے-_-“ہ ''_' ا6ے‎ FUP ০০৪ 9ق آد‎ ‘Tug * 


آڑورتدوامید- 

০৪০৩৯৮০০৩০0 ৩৩৭৬ 000'8 veces ০৮৬৯০ ৪8010594706 ۹۲ ডি ba چا‎ 
ریم‎ 938382 JO زم قیمووٌحجبوہ‎ 

چو نی یو CS BGs 000's re রর “DIT “OOD আহা ০704‏ جم 


০০০০০০11110 ৯০৯০৯০00000 ٣۶ذ‎ 09৪ ৪৮০৮৮৩ یی‎ *** "DAT “OO শা ০981 ٭ چرذغ1ہ:‎ 


, (১৮5) چم رچدد'*‎ 
০৬০০০৩০ ew এক 001 ৬০০৩৬৬ ج03( ]1119053 ری رد‎ MVS YY ivpey ** 


"pang digs 
سس‎ tts tte 00০0 سید‎ scenes -juepnig Calg faag ئ چزیادہ:‎ *" 


12% گ(51]8 pues‏ ک3 ৪৬৮৩৬ eee ৪০০30 puv‏ ہہ 091 رر لی 00৫‏ ووووہ٭ 


0 چرمز0دد* 
0د70 WIEN‏ جم -21292g‏ 
ود۹ 03 sy)‏ عدبسرہ yo‏ 

wee we ac 0S ae ৩৯৯ AMYPAMOYD +2008 تظئتادتاجت‎ ** 


F "WO}}92101d 339789 10J 
سو‎ ee ee ss we ' 00৮ ٢۲ ১০০০৩ 1 ভভভ৪৬৬ 8 IST fered ا١‎ Us 7 وم ںی ین‎ 


এ তাত 
ovens ০৬৪৩৪ یں‎ 00০08 ٤ه‎ ceases jeowmsR 410৬0 nypurqeBer *** 


eecees ۹ 5৪৪৩৬ 0042 ৩৪ ৪৪৪৩ ا ری‎ 09170 x Vv Jopun 111311112937 ہ هو‎ 
12و‎ 7  -- 78 009 ০৯০০৯ ০০০০০৪ .ت58( صلا]‎ VM YSeIIG Upuy * 


"TI ‘ON 
95559 50458 18929109۲ ‘soa8 
CFT ھ'‎ 


008 
চা al ON, پ ھت‎ 
wee re 


“ape 203) 85990 007১০%০৬৫  . 
ا نا لی نیف 207 رت‎ ১০০৬০০৬১৫০১): wee 


০ ee 


: "০397920 34.8390 
৩৯৪৬৬৩ "0 اپ‎ ‘PII ہجو'‎ wus widuy avs 


চা 006 Peeves ৪৪৪৬৬ stease 2 ٤ wae pang 121131 ند88‎ 1 1+ ve 


Pesebe  8eBeee 


"L961 “04-006 2 1 "9 “90-8061 *“LB-OORT PIG ভন ৮৮০৬, uO [কি 3৬০০০ Jo 40552 
০০ سد‎ we 8 P 


uso] 420301 BE 


us0yT ء و‎ pun) JO Vosied 343 jo ও -Stfpy ০৭9 Jo ও [795 


۳۸۸7۵2 


“0 + 

0 ۲ pe 
1 1 of 7 00 001 uy ا ا‎ ۱ 2 1০ ای‎ f 0 ; 20741 
৮১1 


(1১০ 
2.۷۷۷ 1 
5 i 

0 00 ۳ 

: ا 


1 
ا 
00 


৮৮1৮ 
01 7 1 
1 آ0‎ 4 
17۴۲‪أ“ء۵۸۵// ك۳‎ 
و‎ 
0 


17174 
ا 8 71( 


115 
১৮ 0 


111), JULY 12, 1956 


ee ০ ضا‎ ২৮ সিসি ےا‎ 


٦ 


A GAZ} 


vr 


ح 


MENT TO THE CALCU 


۹ 
7 


১111১1১1,] 


400 


“সভা oy} JO 5০৭ 


OFFT‏ موہ :چو زعصد ON‏ وو Prem a ৪০9৫7 yp‏ 7 ++ؤ.-جم- 11113111111:0011؛ ۰۰۹ ب.و ‏ ے۱ و 
ould ert‏ * چموے ہیر ‘ON ০৪0‏ ڈرو مر ese tnt OFGL‏ .تک 00 শশা 10000 পপি‏ 00119 
EST ‘ON জজ বা 2০ *-- ond SEPL‏ مر 96 assess nec a ০00) =e সপন‏ سس لیے 000.9 
7ء হা DY *- oma‏ لد OFT ON‏ مر 0+9 0 , ە+ + + + + + ০07 শি 00000 শিপ 00 1918. 00০7‏ 
oma 95৮7‏ ٭-- oor, tt tam ana 901 mee এর 9619০ TOT “ON 95৬ গাও VY‏ 
পি 00000 পতি 000 পপি 00000 تت٦ 00০ tee 9৮01. 3০ 96 ON APO TIA WY ۰ oma cert‏ 90 
০৪0 AT WY“ owd দন‏ چرہ- و 96790 ose ttt anne nant 00৫ ees সস‏ 
SFI ‘OX ০৬0 AT YY *** onid SEPT‏ مر وو co ০শোা twas‏ 
-০ ROTA 3০ **" ona --‏ ہر مر moo tt nang na তত একতা‏ 
er |e‏ 2ص eee‏ سس রী re‏ 1:1 
ج- کرد 1۴۰ر ON আজণে‏ وو مر nn কও‏ 7 سیف শপ teen‏ کت کی 
১৭ গা 6৫‏ چم ور OE‏ یرہ جع مر جوجع ০ পি 00000 পিন 0 ۰۰... 90৭ wens aa‏ 
سے এর জগ 11000000000 পির নি লাল যা‏ سس পিপি 0 পি‏ ےر শি‏ 967 
oma 1381‏ ,** چمو 6$ ৪5 ON ০৪৬০ “পু‏ مر ৪৮6‏ یت +++۔- , +-9+++09 سس পি‏ ےر سم ا 0০৪7 শি‏ 
JO 6 “ON ০৪৬0 TTTA PY ۰ ong "7‏ 6ج ০০০৪ ‘él ০, 9005 wnt‏ 
JO 005 “ON ০০৬১ 101 WV ٠٠ ond seri‏ 1۶61 07۶ +)کءە"ە" শশা 00999 re‏ ...ےر ০0088 শা‏ مل چوکھرں 
TTA WY --* ound "۲‏ 2٭د 0৪5০ OST ON‏ 6ه 9وصہصہ+ە+ب ٣٦٦٠٦٠٠ ۹-۹١٤ nce ose‏ ۰-9 ”- ں 0111111۱ 
oud earl‏ ث۰ 00৮8 ৯৮৪০০ হি 067 © SIT ON OSH) TTA BY‏ کت ...تب ۰۰۰۸۸۸۸۱۱١٠٢٠٢٠٠ পিপি‏ ویٗ. .ث. :5۹ک ,1,1 1+:001 
٠ ond eel‏ چدر حور ON ০৪50‏ وہ Oe শশাশ ০০০ পতি 100000000 পশিত 000000000 শত ৪ উহ আজও 065০‏ 
TTIA WY -*. oni rett‏ (.د ০০০7 শা 0000 annge nana 0۱۹/۷۱۱۱9۱9۱ ۹91 00000000000 ৯০০৯০ 0৫ ৩০ OL ON‏ 
×جیں শি tte nang me OOF হিসি pet 6567 JO 821 ON আজ) ۲11 093۴۳ ٠٠ ond‏ مم 
INIA WY ٠ث‎ onia 61‏ (٭<د FLL ON‏ مز 6801 oe tt neat aan গর ae‏ 
81 و .+- সেখ PY‏ ںہ JO RS'ON‏ 6861 30+ ہب 0191 1+ ,-10101,111:: ۔ ٭٘× دک ۰ د-.-- শি‏ 1,1,11 
٤ءء‏ ج- -* 3১৮‏ ہیر wo whe. তে ৪8679০081০৯ OF‏ ۰۰۶۰۶۹۶ کٹپ-ی گ٠۰ শা 0 শি‏ 0 
ON ০৬) 11+ WY *- oid টাকা‏ 62 8801(0 ملف ١‏ لے ص উপরি... টি ০ ١‏ ×× یم 
کے مس টিনার‏ 8 1 ۰۲ :ی۹8 9 ھ 3 
اه ধন Lt:‏ ٭ 0 | bd‏ کڈ 8" | 


“quae يہ‎ 9092030] 
3780/90 ‘a's’ L 12967. 9৮০ -9-0587 8807 08۲-ین“‎ ৪৬০প ین نوز زج‎ ৩০০ پ پا 7جوہ+-وع-‎ 32 Met] وج۴‎ ০০০৬ 0০৫7৬, وہ‎ NYO 4০ ox 
res 94 0৪], % ts % ٤ 8 ¥ avo] uo puny to ucsiad জ 30 aMeN ZOVETISUTUIPY 24) 3০ ০৩০) [HB 


401 


SUPPLEMENT 10 গান CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


002% মির 
০০0৫ +০০০০৬ 1 eww ہی ...11 0ب رر‎ 
008 5৩৪৩৪ লক (mk 2৯৩৬৬ مہہ‎ শুন لے‎ শ্শহগিকিত 
০০৫৩৪ ৬৬৩৭ গিিউিডজজ 00001 یر رر ی و جج‎ 
00002 ৪৪৩০০৬৩ড লন www we we ৮৪৬৬ 
ہیں‎  ল ল  ক০০০০% ৬৯৩৪5 2৯১০৬ ০০4০ esonun eeunce 
(001 0011111111100011, —<i—ststsssswewe testes بین اٹگڈٹٹکٹٹ.ں.۔.۔ ...و‎ 
000: ٰب-ببں +2 طتط: ۱۱۱۹۹۸ َفَ۱ََََٗٗ9َ9َفففبفہَ0‪ً۰ہ۰ہہہہننہہاابیممممممممممملمسلف اچ قڈقٌژڈاقمققاُڈٹ‎ twee twee we 
000% ০০০০৩৪৮৮৩৩৩ 0,  ,01011 1 یٹ سیر -صصسن111‎ 
meee 
009 ecoveet—(i—i‘“a‘( Ol weet مُینیندڈگٹٹٹٹٹ .می ...-<..-..+ ہب‎ ORL 
008'T ad 
00452 coceeet—(—i—i‘“<“<a ww pee we wwe ORR 
০৪৩৬৩ লন 77 mee Oe 008 eeeese দক 
0012 0010111,1111111, গতি چو ...سس‎ ৬৫৬ এও 
0086 eecese ٹڈٹٹٹٹٹ. 0٘2 ...1011ةة,,0++++++++++‎ wets سوو وی .یی مخینینٹگ۔ڈٹ.-۔‎ 
0901+ میں .مر ...ھ2 11ەەهەببهة‎ 000 ৪৪ نر یی‎ 
0111111113111111 1 707000911. یو ٹکٹ رر رر جج‎ (034 
৪৩৩০৩ ক 11-99939۹۸۰۰۰۰. we জষজিতিকিওি 11] evsese soouse 
২৩০৩৩৪০৪৩৩৩ 1: em ৯৯০৩৩ 00009 ےھ ودھ دہ ہ ٭٭‎ 
acateea لنررتں ۴ 009 چو موی‎ চা بی ری نا میں‎ 
00০0৭ 0910111,0000000 ল ল  ৬৩২৩০০ ৮৩৩৭৮ wetter یوید‎ 
ওএ৩ওঞও 1 ভগ woe ভিউ্জগ 00৯৩ epacas ٭ و‎ 
নিন  ._ ۰.۰. ن ئچیچحققڈا۔ '۔.,.۔.۰‎  ۔.۔.۰.۰ے.۔۔۰۔۰۔١۔.ےےےم.د۔م‎ weeme@  ۔۔.۔.۔.۔.۔۔_.,_,_, _.__۔‎  5ڈ39٭*٭>ھج‎ 002৮ eenses 
eretce———tt— mmm RD oos ‘ett eusero 
লি 00৫ 5৫488 ہہ‎  ً  ٭‎ 
হতককগজ আগত 7 شعقمافھ‎ OD 0062 ০ ہہ ےھ‎ 
انام‎ ০০০ 11848 epoesse ے دہ مہ و دج‎ 
008 peeeee 7 জজ 8 eee و8وجھ۔‎ i  — পিক জজ 
oH ra ea at: 7H انچ نے‎ 
وحتحوتیچو-‎ ۰: 
‘a و‎ 2 717٢ "OL ٤ 81 5৪9০7 £6-968T 
weak bts ts WoT ee uvoT ci 82 ০১৩০ / ۵۰ "GX %E usoy %S ভে 9০8 


গত‏ وبڈرجومروسں وہ رجدولامد)“ 
٠٠ Oa‏ 10۳ر জিভ‏ یرہ 9 T°‏ 


۱۳۳م 8(1616 ۳ت۶ (তা)‏ 


91710 ٭٠ TITA PY‏ ج٭ JO G8 ‘ON‏ ووجإ|‌- 
“(s0uyua)‏ 
এসে‏ اسيا egg‏ ید سے 
OMIT‏ *** چدو 1۵ہ 65০ ০৬‏ 50 961 
ON ০০ সুয়ে PY °° 0‏ ئ0 مز ۲9٥٢‏ 
جو ھے (তাত)‏ 
جح ۳ “OTD QW Vipusasig‏ 
PY ’” ond‏ ۸رر ০ GIS ON ০৪৪১‏ 8967 - 
TIA Py ** 07‏ وہہ FOL ON‏ 50 8561 
۲7م“ 
ک0 چیہ ا —8S6I JO FL “ON পভ) iia‏ 
গা‏ 1 0ر 1 ننڈیینر جع 
“Os vee) apace ০ MIC‏ عو “Sel JO‏ 
5০ সনি‏ رججروبں 40m "U)‏ 
প্রস্ততি ০ম Wey এ 0 7‏ 
01 ٭٠‏ چووی رر ج9 O69 ON‏ 61وج 
চুক‏ ڑ تتاط۶ لد (امد)' 
Dy **" 07‏ رہ ند —IS6I 3০ 068 ON‏ 
(i007) seq এসে ওগো‏ 
WY 011‏ ,7رر ‘ON WED‏ 063 م7 —IS6I‏ 
FE] IEW ০৪‏ (ہرەدمد)" 
গে‏ ٭٭ PY‏ رر ON 9৪‏ 062 مز 71967 
~(s1007Ul) seq‏ 
‘ayosy ০.‏ ۳ ہمچرہ "এশা Wy pus‏ 
—IS6I JO 062 “ON 8 TITA PV OIC‏ 
ON ৯৮৬0 TA Wy +” Od‏ 23 مز 967[ 
eee‏ : این 30000 “msg‏ 
ITT A ase ONG‏ دہ ON‏ مج —OS6l 3০‏ 
ua‏ ' 8ہ "meq IeEpang‏ 
“ON 208) OTA ক ON‏ مج مر —O96T‏ 
ےرچوہ OC”‏ و- 2728 ০1‏ جع مز 0981 
6۶٥۲ JO S92 “ON WEQITIAWDY ~~ 016‏ 
FO 0৮5 ON আজ 0+4 DY 011‏ ]86 
0+ ٭٠٭ ON এজ 1۸ RY‏ ?69 مز ۶8۲ء6 
a ond‏ بی [যা‏ نے 6৮630 9 “OX‏ + 
"jour 2০৮১১: 11181 7‏ 
ON ED NIA PY 011‏ وو JO‏ 861 -- 
‘ON আজি TA PY ٠" ০770‏ جع ৪5730‏ 
NIA 59৮ 01‏ و٭.د ON‏ 902 مز ৪67‏ 
یتجوہ PY‏ 74ہ تہ SFG 5০ SIL “ON‏ 
٠ OKI‏ دو SGI PS ON আটে ٢٢9‏ 
2۴٢ 3০ SST OK 9৪৬ হায়? ~~ Od‏ 


ا ON MQ NTA PY‏ مع مز ۶۹۲ء2 
PHM‏ م208 3০ 880 WU) XIXXX PY জু‏ ۶1ر 


ہہرصعصو کہ “ঠা‏ 


"PR درب میں 0ل ےد ا9ہ‎ 92 ৩০00 wD 
pany 20 2০৭ ০2 کو‎ Sarex: JOUELSTATUIPY 3G} JO suTeN چس‎ 


JULY 12, 1956 


CALCUTTA GAZETTR, 


A] 


ر 


SUPPLEMENT TO TH] 


462 


a سیپ ۔‎ 11110101010 নিছক 11110101010 ক 00Z'T ہے‎ awe see pung [ওযু sping " ০0৩ EStt 


= 
¢ “puny 
eeeepme  — ভগতজভ 009 ئا سیت ہہ وے ہج کک ےہ ےچ‎ ১1১০৭ مت ٣ئ ٤ة یت‎ 6016 RFI 
۱ ie 
@eersene © @mempee —  —  @meutee gg = پیچھیوچجچژ‎ ercege o0e'F | مہ‎ ৬৬৬০৬ চা 9110 ۲00736 1317 208 ججو گ00‎ 
“puny [ছোলার Prop 
@eesen = @m@e@eee —  — — eemppe j= 1 ء ۸65 ہہ‎  > 0--._ت_‎ eoesse OOF eseces 001" s,mdes زا‎ Lea a vg sIpueyy ace 01 وچ‎ 
۲001056 1 
ZH برسچٹٹ'ۂ)‎ 2 pug 
গুঞঞঞওঞগ 77777 peepee 770 জগত পক te zevesé "0'0. ہے ہد‎ গুড دہ‎ 39503 508৬) ۲0۴7 oases onid ۲ہع‎ 
ও৩ডগকভ 1۱۷و‎ ٥ ١ 4 سس سسسر۔۔-----+-.--. ...020101011111111 11111111111111 --.-.‌ٹ"۳"۴+,1۰111111313111,,,1,1,11111,1ر4111‎ ۹ enaese 00০7 ক pang TUIO FE quoysy ene SUUBBIEI-$zZ ں وی ا‎ হে 
10০5 “A “H 
-QQUNMLIBAOS) WBE, Joy puny 
eerepe i = ep sees جویددہ٭ دہ ہ موہ ج وچ ہو یہ‎ (00০: ھ٤ ٭وہہ‎ ۱ ecerse Ammupnoew + Tew 1۲0000 eae ০5২ ٤ ٤ 
শালি ¢ 
‘pong dys Te = oows ঘর 
8৩৩ 77710 OO mw © গগওজডন 77100000005 eee 006৮ یدن پا لا یں نا(ا]: مال ننےے و ٭ وہہ ٭  -> ہد‎ ان١‎ ۹1131011130 “এন্ড Pen OSFI 
a ৪১:১৪) 6১২৩ 
“০০৫ 130007300 
ری‎ 0 mmm mmm 7 গুঙঞওভডজ  ল 77 Oe! 003 egseee গুওগ ছড়ি eas aid 019 Lip 3% ee ٠*۲ ১০১৪৮৮১৬৪১২ ৮০১১০) po GLFI 
۹ pee ees کو رلاکس تا‎ OP BOE 
٠ ty ہے‎  @peese j= গুভভগগঞ্চ 002 @eseee = |. p@2te8 jo ৫ “ON 2900 YIXxyyY সা pwd ۲۳00۳٣ pug ৫87 
مم رر ری رر ...بد ریز ننس‎  ল ল 1 C0 رز‎ 77 Ct. ہر ےر‎ 5555 000 ০ ٭ ہہ دہ*‎ oon 0961 jo 0 ‘OX ‘od eos 0 241 
مین رب مب‎ চে peocese 0 ০০৫ بی ہپس‎ 
i s ১ ےہ‎ 0 ٥ ان 58ےے‎ ۶۴6٤10 SE “ON 1189 MIL ‘espnr-qus 187081100২৬ :.۲ 
"(9330 Puy 
| ১৫ ہر یر و‎ (ey “mg ‘ea Usg 
eesses 2 2 2 2 2 0 0 0 ল ল ল ল ল 1: ww we سسسسی,ھ-....-011111 00080 ْ سس یی ۰ ت‎ 0009 ৪৩৩৩ ডক ৬৩ ১৬৭৫ jTemoucg)—!F61 jo St'OK ws ene 91110 27 
۹ 
| -খ্শে 
eee ' SHON WHAT eypul—zZoet 
পি 000 I Ch C0 i 0 kk | a, CT | ee كث8‎ joa o ON 060 1نننت۴۱ 1 ےن ایآ‎ ose 0 FLEET 
“PIT 
ডা সন ۔‎ আজ 00000 حص 0000 ہہ‎ বাসস 007-7 سیر‎ 
পারা ৮৮৮৮৮০৮০2৮০ وی چیپی'' یشی :۹۸ پت‎ ٠یہ‎ JO TON ৬0 8ندہ ز0ہ‎ ৯৩০] সহ ۹۲80 179 ‘aspnr-qng 5 
i *sBuusieg-tz “3200 
رر ری‎ = wwe gem 40 ٣١۰٠۰: 111118 1,111 55255 1118 eseces eeccece ese 0610০ جع‎ "ON ‘8 "L ১৫৮৫1 pug ‘ONG 82٤ 
4? 
“a 
চি 00092 eerone لیر یی بسرلیں ٥ھ ہیں‎ ৪৪5৪৩ —§cé6T jo Ot “ON اہ‎ এপ ay eee چرووہ‎ | 843 4 
ভজন mw we me OC « و دہ٭‎ eendte eee یھ شس سیوا‎ 
we 0092 09679 ع‎ ০1৪ ZL ت٭دبدو ۶ 5ه‎ [ছয০100 94 
۰۱۰۸۸1۸11 ,, "۶گ‎ ۱۹ ۹ “١١٥۹۹٥١٥٠٥٢٥۹2 ۰ جس‎ PY ے+-ی۰۱ٛ”بقحصمطت>-“ 1۳اید‎ 
CO ے‎ ল یوو دو نے ےےل مھ ےے‎ 0108) T ری‎ 5৪৩০৮ ৩৩ eee رر ین سن‎ eppey لس بے‎ ডা ٥ মে 81 6967 
a: | ا‎ গু ای ا‎ ৫: ‘TE a: | 
+671 “ae ۲ “9646 7 "0-1 9671 041و‎ 1 *£6-0681 ۲۲۶٢ 9 ولیہ یں جا‎ “ON 
ad OTs 0001 & IZ 8 10 
0007 “dN ٤2 reok Or S48 090198 ueeT %৪ ۶ UOT وپ‎ ০0৭১৪ مو‎ > WROTE আচ وس تماد‎ «symp omy ےس سان‎ 


407 


০ ০০ RI a ns ہس شش‎ 


MENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


4 
7 


صصح وی رس چرسری سم یو سیپوس و پسی سے مسر ےد ہہ دمح یت উড ১০৮, তম ও‏ ۔جہجمضمیجو a ০০ পি‏ 


111 


এ রত এরপর 
পপ سس سس‎ 


ae 


002 سیت ر٥0 8 یہت‎ 02 সা 6061৩ ور‎ ‘oN ‘og 

60071 % @e ae esanee ہہ جد:: ھ‎ )١( پچ‎ aaa ا و‎ CO6E 39 18 "ON "Og 0711 91 
OG tt wwe et ٠٠١ ۵۷۸۹. تا سی‎ an تر‎ 9061 JO I “oy "od Oud cost 
বি  ے‎ tm معحعفو ا‎ ৬৩৪৪৩ 00৮৭ ti (esis ৮৮০) হি SCOT ۶٢ 001 "oN "od 0.2 ۶ 
,,/م,+/+.+- ۔-ەهٰ'ٰ'' 9ی ف۰‎ ৮৬ 9077] وع مر یج ے- چس مع نے‎ “ON «og ond cost 
00Z ৯০০০৯০৪৬৩৩৩ ৯৬৪৬ত OOS 77 seeser লা تق‎ ۴0601 5০ چرد- و‎ ‘og 01 sost 
ومن‎ were ames 1 wae ہے‎ 0095 8061 3০ LOZ "ON ‘om od 01 
076৫2 ৪৬ ৩৬০৬ eeesee eecese পিক 00 ওত G0s‘cz — 1 0 CCUG “OK “od 5 01475 00ST 
00€*IT mee i রা. পল 00৮17 টি 96170 05 “ON ‘og = 011 |, ১০০৪৫ 
602 ৩০০০৩ 2 = ———— ws we 002 eee = হিল 207 59 89 “ON ‘od on ONG এট 

ری ہک و پیننهہ 81036 "Aa‏ ۱ 

77285257777 7ٹ‎ উর 0 শপ مر وووےمح۔ ہے‎ LON 0ل‎ 'ছ শু  ہمورھدچپ ےیوم'‎ prvedg ۴۲ 
0094 0092 tt tana anne ne و مز 8961 *** سید‎ "ON وہ‎ ‘Be PY ٠+ “6 ناب‎ 
1 171-01۰ 1-11۹۸ -. صت۲۱۹‎ OOF یٹیٹٹٹ‎ sea - وس‎ ** ০6710 30 ON ک0 *** دو چو“ و٭<‎ carl 

‘seuvdreg-+Z‏ اید“ 
1 رزنتادےۓع “OK BBD 65 PY ‘AAO Pwd‏ 0۲ع JO‏ 2867 *"* سید OOUS tet aes wees 9057... শপ ৮:‏ 
tet 111111-88 9999۹٦ 00867 তা ٠ 9761 5০65 “ON IMS পান, °° OFFI £672‏ ٣۔٣‏ 
VINOD‏ رو بی بی ۶ "HROD 8, a3par-qng‏ مود ‘ 
FOF ON IME CHIL ঘা "তান sieuipioqng ۲1‏ آوجو مر 006'T পল‏ ہی مد ا ا 90677 
نے 
০৫,৮০৫‏ 
sa 0] sep উওজ- “10‏ 15ت ہہ 2 ۶ 
tne 00৪৫ ই ক 1-1۶61 JOSS ON WMS MAUL Ns 2281 syeurpzoqng 76৮7‏ مم শতশত‏ لے ےم 
“৮0‏ یو سس بیع 61 a‏ 
০৬০0০০০25 0677‏ موہ“ So 252 “ON OED ‘XIXNXY PV Wl‏ مس ০০০৭7 শি َ ٣١٥٢٢٢١٦٢٦+ amet ote 09০77]‏ 
کو آوعج- 
এ -rtq-+2 ভিওএ ‘suap‏ 
ERI‏ چوستدب5گ:ک' PERBOHOOZ "এস [eFojooZ‏ بدا সি wate tate 008'9 coves a‏ 0 0089 
رن رن 
چوبامتع' we 1৬ভতওতজান‏ 
(‘Arejalosg ৪7‏ = ۳ت ئاہکع ہار Wey wpawyy Hig‏ وت0٭7ل- حمودمہ = 009 580 ٤,۸‏ تٰ"ٰ1 101111 
২1 as 8H a | we wa wa‏ 


“S96T এ 
পথ, Woo] ود۲930‎ 2898৯ 9 F “SL-0L61 WoT % 8 “OL-0861 ০ % ক “9t6T ৬০০] "০০ 9০ $ +29-5967 wos & “Z46-9681T Geol % & puny Jo ucered oq} مر‎ surey -ج٢7]‎ 6٣۲3۳7 JO ওত و8‎ 


CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


+ 
4 


NT TO THE 


নি 
4 


۸)1 


404 


aes رو‎ cs en ae SIGL JO 16 “OR ৮২0 Wo = কক 


07م 
od‏ ** ع- چ- EQ‏ یرہ" পার "8165০ হক‏ و 006 7 ٦‏ 002 
6ہ" ٭٭ ৩০০0 "তু‏ یرم مع ٤۲0‏ سب 7 00% = রি‏ 008 
ond‏ ٭٭ ঘা ৮০20০ AO WT‏ ۔- - রা 00৪8 ৪‏ ۴ ; 0088 
"ভু *** oid‏ دی ہن রী TIGL JO FL‏ 7 9و0 - ون 7 00919 
ایت ٭٭ ৩5৬0 VT‏ یرہ" آع مر یں مہ = ac 006 dass‏ زین 00s ae‏ 
ond‏ ٭ 00৮1 ut ee 7 0۲ এ ক *** 0161. 5০ 99% ON MEQ 'ঘ শু‏ 
nd‏ ٭ cS = 00609 6 aa “- 061 5069 “OK ০5৬0" "শু‏ - 00609 
YT“ 36‏ 90 ان ٠ x 002°8 7 si “* 0161 JO‏ ند o's‏ 
রা‏ ** - پ ود নি ৪ one ৪৪ ۳ ** 0161 70088 ‘ON‏ 7 
“ON ONO “VT oid‏ 098 0670 یز = وم0 7 = = 009 
"যু *+** oid‏ ن٭دہ 086700945০8‏ = 0 = 008 وت oce ٦‏ 
او 00৮ ee ٠ -** ০0 a me “* 06170 995 ON SVQ *Y “T°‏ 
“ON 99৬0" "যু *** oid‏ و مر یرون > si‏ وت 001 انت 7 ses‏ 07 
ON BBQ ¥ “T° ond‏ 772 01600 مہ রি 99 007 ore or‏ 00 
نت ٭٭٭  “OX MUO “VT‏ 98 061(0 مہ ai ss‏ 0098 یا 2 کت نل ا 
oud‏ *** چ- چ٠ 5০6৪ “OX MB‏ 0067 مم = on 0086৫ i‏ 7 2 05 
ond‏ ص ON ০২0 YT‏ چو ریئم مہ و one “ne = এ 009 রঃ‏ 
তত 93710‏ ج- پ- ۴ ON‏ 1811 606110 * ہم 0০০7 ove 6001 we‏ 
g061 JO 6601 “OX ০৭৪0 “۳ ٠: ** ٦ 0‏ ٭- = تا 011" 7 “ 01 

ond‏ چپ “ON ওল‏ دو مر 6061 *“ = نس 05" 2 0 = یں 
JO 132 “OX 90 “WT *** oid‏ 6061 سے রি = 007 - “oo‏ 2 000 
প* 606 55 829 “CN ০5৪৩ VY T° od‏ نون ss 7 006 re‏ 008 
ond‏ ٭ :جج JO 86 ‘ON ABBY‏ 061" سد a 7 vos 09৪ tes‏ 
"VT od‏ 0د “ON‏ 895 مر  gO6T‏ *“ ۔- i 43 me 00818 ٠‏ 0068 

টিউন کے صا‎ 
7 : : - sont ia উন নী 
٦۰ ٠ oe 00৪ ৮৯০ woe - 80670 45 “ON ৩০৬0 ہچ پ-‎ 6 
দা ۱ oe = 07৫ রে “ee ہہ‎ =—=s-« $06 وع مر‎ “ON ند‎ 7 “T ا ےبد ا‎ 
لاو‎ oy ہو چو‎ গু چو چ٭‎ 
| Wess ; এ “00961 "9৮67 : : لاٹ زرل ہے‎ 
ক ms এ و‎ 2 ০০, eo Se চাট ইন সিবিএ Om 


460 


NT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JILY 12, 1956 


۹ 
এ 


SUPPLEM 1, 


a ae লগত مم‎ 
পপি 


eee eee ee — ere পপ ক چھ ھک ہسسصحٗد:‎ OR er نے‎ 
= এ = পম পপ OS ee ০৮০০ ee সস 


Ff ao. 
৯০ اھ وۃ اھ‎ 


ہس 


— 


৩০০‏ سے پر ےہ 


een 


* و- چ و8٭ہ JOGTI ON‏ 8161 ء“ 
শু +‏ چ- 5০ 80 ON OD‏ قجوہے 
VT *‏ وعوہ FF ON‏ 816170 
SIGT JO 6٤ ON 90 “T°‏ 


—tIGI JO OG “ON 95) ۴ 


eco 


"* 1)آچج‎ JO 628 “OK وھ‎ ° 


8161 JO GUE ON SPE VY "T ° 


BIGI 106 FFI OK WB VT * 


BIGI [0 91 “ON EDV “পু " 
*** 6170ا‎ 297 ON و 9ہ‎ YY ٭٭‎ 
LIGI JO OFE "ON ০550 چ-‎ ۰ 
LIGT 30 OST “ON 2950 ৮ "পু * 
2161 70 24 ود تہ“‎ শা 
216170 OG “ON 90 ‘YT * 
LIGI 39 6۶ ON VQ ٭‎ ٠ 
161 JOT ‘ON و٭:٭‎ ‘YY * 
9161 JO SG ০৯ MBO WT " 
مر او‎ SSI “ON BBQ YT *** 
9161270 991 “ON ০৪০0 چ٭‎ “T° 
9561 JO PEL “ON ০৪৬0 “WT " 
SI6I مڑ‎ 95 °ON چ٭ ن98‎ “পু ۰ 
21605০065০8 VO VT “ 
9161170 وم‎ “ON OHEQ چ-‎ "তু * 
PIGE JO 9 “ON ںن٭٭٭‎ "স্ব “T° 
PIGI [0 99 ‘ON نود‎ VT * 
DIGI 76 99 ON 9D VT ~ 


VIGE JO IG “ON 28D স্ব “T 


8۶161170 8621 ON 8990 VY “IT ٭‎ 
S861 مز‎ LOT ON ভি) VT * 
16110 ZL OK 3980۰۳ পু 


2161 Jo 8چ‎ “OK 9550 VT " 


"pee vuINdenUy “Gig To 


SIGT 30 OF “ON SESH *V “T 


SIGE JO 19 ON 5550 ٢ 
*»* 610ج‎ 918 “ON COEF “T ° 


ZIGT JO OFS “OK 20 VT * 


I نے‎ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


466 


ies ۲ 0049 a ; ۔- میں‎ হে مر‎ ٤ئ‎ "গু ও ۰۷۲ 7ا 609 116+ ”* ں۰‎ 
000°¢ مہہ‎ 0০00" oe ہے‎ *** [26150 006 “ON ওত "ভা শু *”* الات‎ SOOT 
003 iid 006 5 জজ * مر میں‎ 985 "ON ORD “YT ٭‎ ০7 2097 
001 = oot - سا‎ = 1361 JO چور‎ ON জজ "শু oid 9097 
1۸٥9ی‎ ত035358 
001 001 Sad ° ooo —IZ61 ہز‎ £06 “ON 9৪৬০ “ভা “IT °° od ৮০৬3৫ 
oor eq ত005358 3 
হু - 0০০0 টিক টি —IS6I JO ۲0٤ “ON ৩৪0 “VY ٤ ০7২ +1 
oe 006 2 یچ .مہ جج‎ JO 002 “ON থে )ہک‎ ۰۰ 01 Scot 
000°! - oe 000 - soe مہ‎ Iz61 JOTI ON چ- ںوہ‎ “তু *** oud ات‎ 
ee a পি) টি ٭ر 1261 ہہ‎ ع1٤‎ oN ওড0 সপ্ন *** 096 1001 
002 ৮ ৮৬৪ 00৮" eee wars: 6ئ ہے‎ ۲ 3০ 96 “ON 9৪৬০“ “পু ٭٭٭‎ od 0001 
٤ ০৪০ [ET এ এছ 
pie 8 نی وت 00 ا‎ —Iz6I 3৩6৪8 “CN و٭ وہ‎ °Y “IT ٭‎ AN 661 
0017 مب‎ "016 = one »* 12613009 ON چ- جح وہ‎ "যু  ٭‎ ১০11 S6ST 
الو‎ 2 it = 0 رت‎ 286135০1901 نوّاوہ‎ শত ٠+ 031d 96৪7 
008 72 7 টি 078৮2 — 5 1561 5028 “ON ری۱گڈود‎ ভু °° ااا ےئ‎ c6st 
008 F —< ons مہ جس‎ [5813০ 06 ON چ- چ- یہ‎ "* oud fost 
00 a ০০০ آ00‎ uae “- 026130812 °ON BBD °V"T ٠ nud 8651 
رٹ‎ é - ont مر میں - عم‎ 605 “ON OFEQ "WT *** od لات‎ 
006 agi 26 হা ٭-‎ O661 مر‎ SSI "ON چ* و٭٭د‎ যু ٠+ 0. ₹69% 
008 ৮৬ ane ৮০ > 0261 5০ 67 ON ০৫০0 “লু *** ond 01 
oor مم ہہ‎ 00" one one »** 0561 JO ۶۲ ON ٭.- ج۰۳ وہ‎ vd 601 
00F 8 00৮৪ — * 026 JO 0۲ع‎ “ON یگوہ‎ “VT *** 01 را رد‎ 
“000 
7 7 7 چر 0وضئ ')1 تہ قرع‎ 
09's = ones = or ** —OS61 O68 ON WED WT ** 1ئ انث‎ 
00! eee se0 eee آ00‎ eee مچھ‎ eee "0 jo £৪8 "ON weg 4 ms 3 eee OIG 9291 
(01 ৬৬৬ ove ৬৩৪ 001 ہوم‎ ene eee OS61jJO 9 "ON CABO چ٭* چک‎ °° ANG sesi 
"006 مب‎ roe ere 00৪8 ete ove ene 0287 jo 9$ “On aug "¥ یپ‎ ١ ene OTIC ৮১১০] ৪ 
00 2۶ 2 ০ 00৪ 9 এ دمہ‎ 1615০ 3۴ “ON یگوہ‎ YT ٠ NING 5৪ 
002 ٠ | ee 004 ৪ 21 -- موہ‎ JO ৪ “ON ০9৬০ “WY “ET °° 9820. 5897 
08 = = শি 008 مز ہس 3 اوت‎ 515 “ON دی‎ "যু ++ 6ہ‎ চ৪এ। 
۱ : اسر تو یو نر سب‎ 
QOT FT "01 161و 8 ا‎ 3০ 965 “ON 99৬০ پ+‎ "লু *** ond 01 
4 
' : জে ]1:88 7559 
002 آ0‎ গু 008) nee bai —¢éI6lI 20 923 “ON ae) “Vv کے ا‎ 0٦1. 6497 
পঞঞগ২০ MP ری نبا قرق دای‎ 
آ00" آ00‎ হি দি 091ھ‎ jo 198 ‘ON کے‎ Fg i: es 01 RL 
000° ০০ -arvarg [১০০ বা 
Ge wen ہت‎ 00042 রী + —GIGI 4০ IS ON EQ چہ چپ‎ *** 4 vid 489 
آ00‎ 7 "00ّ er اچچ‎ ৮৮816 3০ 58 ON چ٭ ن٭وہ‎ “যু *** 0-011 5697 
001 টি N01 = ۲60ج ہہ جس‎ SEI “ON چہ٭ چ وچوہ‎ *** “ld 988৯ 
006 ও এ one os حم‎ “se ق‎ ۲6۲0 LOT “ON ۳۶ہ‎ 2 yt ond 4201 
006" ae موج‎ "00×07 see Fee ose 6167 jo آ6‎ “ON 83 “Vv ا‎ nee گ0‎ খা এ) | 
ناپ یع ہے نر نزتررع سا ای ں اتاج ہے۱‎ 
و مد‎ 00g 8 চে —GI6GI JO ZT ON 9৪৬০ “YT چد55ڑواب8ہےء‎ Sart 1ئ۲‎ 1٢ 
“OU bat oy Le: | aa: | ry “wa 
: j : ৮67 “209৪ 8} 7+7 ্ 
وین 0-0917 1ة - کر نت‎ “POY 210০ زاب‎ UO 53500. ০ 39৪৩ م تح‎ ৪০ 2০০১ “ON 
18107 -ueqad * و9‎ ভগ্ন 8০0 7ئ“ ۲وج"‎ Pan) 10 5093০ ayy Jo چرھوںہ‎ জাগো) aya jo কে ))16 
808 59 58 ৪০ 9০৪ wey BS 


467 


বি ane SE 4 ৩8:১০ ৬2 TS Say EES i GPS‏ لا 


aman) ED ওই এ eames ets ০০ ee পলি 


T TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


4 


چم 


SUPPLEMI 


“9808 478 pj ی3وضنارن‎ হু 


—SZ61 JO 9۲ع‎ “OK 2৪৪0  چ‎ “T° 


"wed ওজর aponqy 
স্পিরিট 19 691 ON ED ৮ “T 


Pils seq হঃওএগওওড়া‏ ایت 
٭ EQ “পু‏ 6879 مز —G661‏ 


*** প861 50 FET ON 0 ‘VT °° 


*** 82617906108 BQ ¥ ٣ * 
°°? 626 5৩ ع۲٤ ك0“‎ SEO °F YT ٭‎ 
*"* 82671. JO LOI “OX 2৪50 “WT ° 


£361 19663 OK MUD VT °° 


256110 058 ON 9৬0 - T° 
“89794515510 ٦30(0110۳ 1D 


৮4561 JO FIZ “ON ও ছু ٭٭‎ 


226817০2810 898807۳ পু °° 
45675017670 895৮0 ভা اہ بھ‎ 


موودی“ 
ن pae 99900 [গ্লু আগর‏ 


5০510708650 ™‏ م"ع-۔۔ 


"১956705০87০ BOY TT ہہ‎ 


9597 J0 98 ON 9৮৪0 ۹١ “IT * 
SZ6T JOLT ON 38207۳ T° 


tZ6T J0 69 “ON 9980 ٢ 


JO 006 ON পচ ডু”‏ $261 ٭ 


° $367 JO 6۴۴۲ “ON 88D “VE * 


وو بوم و JO GOT “ON SHED‏ ]626 ہس 


* وو‎ 021۲ 5১০59 
৮০১১৪০৯২৫৮৪ ٤ 
—SZ6I JO FS “ON اہروںی‎ 


-g19q)0 9 
sflsqynR easy 68 


“ON 2৪৪) “WV “T *‏ وع 30 مع 


“PRBUNIS "GD জঘন্য 


"5861 JO وہ‎ “ON ৩৪50 ٭ “ ے۔‎ 


গা چو مر‎ ON ও) "ছু" 


52630 STON BEND যু وت‎ 


261 JO I “ON 9950 ۳ ٤ 


*** مر می‎ 6৫2 “ON ج٭د‎ VT * 
*** 2261 مر‎ 62 “OK আজ) “VT * 
vs 6130 SEG “ON ০৪৬ ‘YZ * 


** 82639 ]۴٤ “ON ن90‎ VT ۰ 


°° 2263০ OFS “ON 2900 লু 


* چ٠‏ ۳۳ 2267306582০ 95৮0‏ ے 
“T oe‏ ا کا ر89 ৪62 "ON‏ 30 1ج ous‏ 
٭ ‏ چ- چ- FER ON জট‏ مر 2661 °" 


- ح- ود JO £63 “ON‏ مجع 


* چ- ۳" ON MEQ‏ 011 مر جج ےم 


শত হত مر‎ হা ০ ও “ভা ہے چہ‎ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


468 


ہج 


nat cea EERSTE ETO 


tee ee শপ 


oe ere ee তাস he Spree GE nen, 
০০০ 


পপ ৯ পপ | আস্পশিপসট স্পা সাপ | উপ শা | ভি শি স্পেল লাস শী শী শশী পিপাসা শাসিত সপ লক‏ چیٰ 


oon Gey ھا‎ হারাই ee سسوہ‎ 
لے‎ 


ee ee i nts 


oor’s ar = کی‎ 
002 we ons 
006 -. هو‎ 
آ00‎ নী Ou? = 
OOF vind 
007 Ont 
00¢ 7 = 
002 ste 
001 7 7 
00 ات‎ Oot os 
001 oot ৪৬৩ ৯ 
آ00‎ ০ 
8001 الا‎ 
آ00‎ ডঃ ا آ00‎ 
007 آ00‎ 
آ00‎ oot 
002 pi 
۲ئ00‎ রা : 
001 001 
00% রড এ ৪ 
002 ٦ কত 
0093 রি موہ‎ ৪৬ 
eu ‘eq چو ہو"‎ 
"4-7 0 
ain 5007 04 
157০4, ome oq] شع‎ ৮1 
zx چ‎ iad > 


002 


002 


و ذجرجہ پک عر BPH‏ 


—GE6I مر‎ 969 “ON BED -۷ ج-‎ * 


৯০০0 ৩৪0৩5.) ৩০0 


(9550 98৩ ‘ON ৪৬৩ "VY  * 


0৫9‏ نیزم 


—OE6I JO 8৩৪ ON EDV পু *” 


“QuygyH رہ تہ‎ suing 


0861 مر‎ 978 “ON 95৬ ۰ “I ° 


বাত Vien wipaasen 


0661 JO Stg “Ox جٗہہ‎ ۳۷٣ * 


1506 Beg 400৩5 


05৮1 JO CFE “ON ود‎ “VT * 


4১৫৮৮. 
৪048 ۶ ےہ1 رت‎ "28715 


وو “ON জট‏ 285 ئنتہ 


‘sefssuegq wrpungg সাত) 


"66130 FFE “ON ০৫০ "ঢু ** 


056 1JOFES “ON 9880 ۰۳ “I 


91806 ٣ 


--0861 JO 818 OX ০৪৬০ “লু ** 


শএগএ ঘট চেঞ্জ 


—OS6I JO 866 "ON 3980۰۷۷ “2 * 


‘Std 12 
—OE6T JO 98S ‘ON BBD “৮ "পু 


০৬৬ (4 [wy AVY 


—0661 39 S83 “ON 8550 چ-‎ "পু ** 


৯৮448100111 


—OS6I JO وج‎ ০২ رووہ‎ YT * 


ATER‏ 0" شس بج 


৮086 3০ 08 ‘oN 9৪৪ ‘YT ** 


*- 6561 3০ 139 oN 9৪৬৩ "শু = 


““ 8567 3° 210 ‘ON ৪৪0 ہچ‎ 


“" G86T JO 168 ON 0 وہ پ‎ 


Unfry‏ یس نخ 


—G66[ jo THE OK وووو‎ Wy ** 


٭ ০ ৯5৬0‏ 2 6861170 
پر :8 07+ڑٹا] 19۷۶)۲. 


see 


-8201 J0 91ء‎ “oN omen “yy ہم‎ 


روہ ج٠‏ پچ 990 “ONT‏ 7 0[ 807+ 


0197 75০৭ ৯৪০৬, مو‎ 
puny a0 Wood ও৭7 JO ০০৩] 


06 


صجکہ' جع- ج:-ی3ڑہوہ؟" 
یراو سے ھ یم ا 


!اوەتوٛ رء "ames‏ 


cote 
-06 


FBO 10 21 
ayy jo ভেতর 


469 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


سس ae os‏ می بے ہی فوشاممسی وبصضودئے شش رہہتھ و چٹ cee উহ SET‏ 
جج ہجو শা ০০১ ee ১০‏ ہے 


و 2388 


“232470 
pas SPH Wey siycqH 
স্চ96 9১028 ‘on 96৪ -y چ٭‎ 2 


81 মাত? 
স্্প[66চ JO এক ‘ox اھ سی نگ‎ = 


“ee 
—Ie6l 3০ Sf Ox ome کا‎ 


থপ Yponiolg 
—Ig6t JO £1 "ox ০৪৬৩ Wd ~ 
“OSC Mhyjsusy wig 
—GEGT JO 4৪ ‘ON چسچو‎ cy ‘7 ٭ہ.‎ 
“8131739 ¢ pu 
৪৯0০০] yey আকার 
স্$8567 JO FE Uk SEQ “ছা শু ++ 


8861 JO GF ON 989 "চুপ ০ 
“aq 095 54170957410 
SEG) JO EFL UN ১250 ۷ হু 
8667 JO یرہ" وع‎ WED -¥ - * 
886110 EL “oN ٠ن‎ VT " 
8861 [0 67 ‘ON aw "পু * 
"199 کی ین نار و‎ 0৪৪ 
—St61 JO IL “OR ر٭<‎ “Fy ٠ 
وہ یج جر یں جو نیت‎ 
626110 6ك‎ 1701-9020۰۹۳ ۲۰. 
48615971908 3880 ভা “۲ ۰ 
28615০15914 95) পু * 
“S10Q30 و تام‎ BIPATY UWE 
4OP—LECT 10 8 یرہ"‎ হটে ۳ "T ٭‎ 
‘PIT OD puwy چرہ وید‎ 
৮256 JO £ ‘ON O24) ےپ‎ “I *° 
৯৪৮ 599 ON BED VT * 
“۱0891 PK DO 
9৪6 JO 19 “ON چو‎ “VY "I " 
986110 9 ON 2৪6) VT * 


95613০2605২ WW VT * 
“seq 1307 
নি ٢] “ox 358) “¥Y “T ٭٭‎ 
“WEULMGG seq CVs 
—vE6T 30 § “OK HED চট “IT * 
৪9530 
pase aefisueq je, ০৩৩৭ 
76561 59 SEI ON কিল °F ছু ۰ 
"S19G30 
pus ৩৯০০ QIK 30৯, 
75867 10 Fel “ON WED ۳ چ‎ ৮ 


অভ]‏ وجمں- 

—ZE61 J0 OF “ON ৩৪৩0 VI - 
"TRUER ۹758 

—ZE6T JO OF “OK aD “VT ° 
396ر ڑود“‎ Ivan হও 

781. JO 993 ‘OK BBD “VT * 
92720 


pus Ivpity ভিত) 2০5 
—If6I JO FOZ “ON আত “V ج-‎ 


০০১০৯) 


MENT TO THE CALCUITA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


এ 
‘, 


SUPPLI 


wi 


470 


eae 


“ওহ 09ج‎ 128 
“ও “evo wpury) یڑ ولا.‎ 


76867 JO SRI “CX تع دہ‎ VT * 


“AMENITY pur Joins 
“OXY 5200৬) ۴ؤ تروتورہ‎ 


—GEGi JO 2৭ CY ۓ-‎ 


"0175 
প্র এছ আন্না fotta 
78৪67 JO LET “oN aneQ ভ “TJ 


39065 1 


-)861 JO OSI “oN 9৪50 چ-‎ "নু ° 


6661 99 8291 “ON 950 "ভা ٠ج‎ 


6561 JO SOT ‘ON জি رز‎ 
“ araqyo § 

009 tq ০১০৭ 1930037 

—GE6T JO SST “oN ৮550 ٠ٍ غۓ‎ 


06ت ۲550 1980 


-68061 JO OFT “ON 9০৬ "ড় چ٭‎ * 


৪:১২ 
১৮৫১ Iqvq 1١08013 وک‎ 
০০709893394 “0 مجہادية*‎ 
£ pues seq ن 8ر‎ 90019 


88৪7 JO RET “OK OY ٠ 


سیر 


—C86I JO S81 “ON ہو ور سو‎ * 


اہر ورین وی JO SEI‏ 6567 


“stog )18117 


“85910 
৪. pus 1500০] 090) 


6867 89 95] “ON 950) ٠۳ “T° 


"হোম‏ یزاس 


686 ر٣‎ Gel “ON پ- وہ‎ শু ٠ 


“sou (01838, 


666৮ JO Goi ‘uN ৩৪৪) جح پ‎ * 
6861 8০৪17019550 پ-‎ « 
666 JO SOL ‘oN ৩০0 -y শা * 


‘THyeg Avy 
ডর 000010 6২৬] وو ہو جو کر‎ 
ON وو د>۔'ٴ 75و ذ1(ميهە وہ‎ 
pus وید‎ wpury> Ieypeoig 


—6E6I 5০ 69 "ON aan چپ‎ yy * 


716 Ley 
WEN تہ‎ oC] ور‎ 93359 
0G} وہ‎ SIORNIOXY '৪9030 
pas ABH elpusyy swupyc 


৮8867 JO এ "ON 95.) 'y T° 


9867 JO ٤٢ oN 9৪৬0 چہ چ‎ * 


۲ ) 7 
৪567 JO SHI ‘On چپ نوہ‎ শা 


0০8 ودپباڈبر‎ eso مح‎ 
puny 10 DORA 214 10 angen 


০7313 


07710 


0 7 


09310 
ond 


17.۴ ج۲+- 9302370" 
7ا 00۱11850۳ 


"9098 رج‎ 9605950) 
তর 04 JR0WH 10 109839 
“١01075۷ Og JO 9০৫৩ 


52025 


471 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA: GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


"01 


0085 


اتبریزیبا 
Asoo‏ 8ن8 SAV‏ 


—OF61 jo 01 ‘ON 9990 چپ‎ খু ese 


مرو“ 
pus amg wayyy 1‏ 


—OF6T JO 98 “OM 9৪0 چ-‎ “*T * 


190 77۴۳ 


٭٭ چ۔ চা‏ یو یرہ —OF6T 8০2‏ 


“PUT [1075 ৩৭৯০9, 


0৪7 (6 وع‎ ‘QN 2৪50 "ক "শু °° 


“seq পড75408 


076 5০ 89 “ON জু) "৮ “T ٠ 


৬‏ 158 نس ےن را 


--0301 29:99 “ON BIE جع“ چ-‎ * 


“td ABQuiD 


—OF6I 5089 “ON 9৪50 *Y “J ** 


ین 07 پ5+۰50]“ 


—OF6I JO وع‎ “ON 90 “V ۰ع‎ 


1500০761768 away 


—OF6T 10 یرہ" وع‎ ০৪৬০ "বা “TT ٭٭‎ 


"+0 
pus ০০৪ 37১00 ۳۴ 
—OF6T JO 09 “OX 8B) চু "I 


م٦6‎ 70 وج‎ “ON وچدہ‎  - * 


او ہن 


و رن یں رر | ১1১১)‏ 0 


»0€7 JO جع‎ ‘ON 9৪0 "চা ٭٭٭ چ۔‎ 


ہجچجویع* 
1ؤ ایی Amypnog) ছে‏ ہی 


07 19 SF “ON 890) “FY “IT ” 


৮৭ 0675০950৮9৪ পু 


51575“ 
رر نال نے زور ار PUY‏ 49200 


—OF6T JO 85 “OR BFR ছা T * 


٤0306 380 0090 y 
—OF6T 0ز‎ Le “OX BBD ۳ “T 


“লন 
pus ەمت٭ ئ٭ک‎ ٥ر‎ এ ন038 


—GE6I JO ৪65 “ON 9৩0 CF তু > 


6667 89 FSI "ON یہ‎ ৮ ١ 


"S900 
pay seq WEN 030۳ص‎ 


8567 JO £461 “ON 9৪50 VT ” 


“IVpIFH ভাজা (esa 


—G686I 9০ S6I ON 9৬0 چ٭‎ “"T ~ 


616 


047 


627 


6 


MENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1966 


টি, 
ر‎ 


SUPPL! 


472 


৪৪৫৯৩ 
PUY ৩৪০১, UWA 3০২7৭) 


পা ond 9‏ چ۔ چ۔ وو ‘ON‏ یہ 3০‏ و 
لیا رز “৪৫৩ PUB 8০ “GD‏ 
997 اتی °* —d¥6él 30 ٢٤٢ O89 SK) “WY "I‏ 
ভাঙল Wires‏ لی 
থয] 997‏ ٭٭٭ এ —3tél JO 0۴ “ON টা ছা শু‏ 
TWPUER_ Curry ৪1০‏ 
ار 017 ™° چ- : an —8f6T JO তা ‘ON FED‏ 
JO OF "ON  ہ٭ر “ছা "ET * 0 SOLE‏ 276 
پچ ৮০/৮৮/৮০৭5 ১2451‏ 
8987 60 ٭ —TIt6I JO OSE “ON ও) “VY "ET‏ 
اسسلخ داوف ا 
টড —T6I JO SSS “ON CEQ “WV “TJ °° OF 19‏ 
"Wy ۶8307‏ 
৭ ond OOLT‏ ی۔- ডঃ —If6l JO 2৪ “ON OFEQ "চা‏ 
11:10-5۲ 10301 302 
5০ 588 “ON BBY "T° OFT "60682‏ 6-- او 
٦1ء JIM‏ 86 وو- ৪‏ 
Of} 7750] USeeol “pK 10‏ 
“ON ০৭০ "TY °° 60 ১১০‏ 5906 تر 6 
এজএছ 774৭!‏ ضا سن اہی 
1ئ 01 ** ON WHY "IT‏ 96ع ওত‏ ]ن٦‏ 
শু] safoarepMy‏ 
9981 03 ٭٠. স্কট JO 0" “ON ০৪ "চা “FT‏ 
1سش وو 1৭৩0‏ 
OFIG 1‏ ٭٭٭ JO O61 “ON 9৬২) “চা "J‏ 16 572 
4300180 َ‫ 
২7000 1315 39819৩৩ 81০0‏ 
id SLT‏ ٭٭ چ- ےچ JO OPT “ON 95৮0‏ 1861" 
81340“ 
pues এজাজ খাত apy‏ 
"ছা “TJ 011 "821‏ نہ —Ifal JO 60 “OX‏ 
yy ** 631d 8-81‏ و٭وہ ت856'0 1۲161170 ۶ 
T° 95৭1 চা‏ چ٭ وہ “ON‏ 66 06119 2 ید 
‘sep, pus 91‏ 
“sy 19208] = Iwuny “Jor‏ 
"0৭316 2701] 211 50৬৭৪]‏ 
হু 2 95731 ৩৭৫‏ چ وہہ স্প্যাচু JO 9০ ON‏ 
*&০ু Wee wpaed‏ 
67 95910 ٭٭٠‏ چ- چ٠ nae -}8S—TT6I JO ٢ “OX aeug‏ 
"৪এ৪৭3৩ [গছ :‏ 
ACY 07504708198‏ .99250 
৪৮৫‏ 71041 °° چ- چ- -২5--৮6 JO ০0) 95৮টি‏ 
ا وج و "5০8‏ 
“AWS—ITGL JOT “ON 95৬0 ١پ‎ “yo 9510 2‏ 
ایینخزفیئغ 
نون 07710 10S “CK 9৪0 sy “yO‏ 6( 0161- 
199d ভানু‏ 
اون "পু *** 031d‏ پٹ —OF6T JO SEI “ON osm‏ 
31515“ 
“বস্তু 9৩০৪৪]. iwurhy noe‏ 
“Pd US 4881) 2185৬‏ 
21 010 ہہ —O16! JO Stl ‘OK ০৪৮) % "পু‏ = 
৮৬০০২‏ 5 
55385১৩৭৪10) 31১00 ney‏ 
—OFGI 30 STL ON চে “EY "যু ৭" ০1 1‏ = 
19০00 wpavyD যত]‏ (2350(7)* 
ond 8*1‏ ہہ "লু‏ ےپ JO EFL “ON 9৮‏ 1٤۲6ن--‏ 
“৩8701‏ ×۶ - ےو دا 3“ [wy] [ue‏ 57۲ باددہدہ- 
ane —Ot6T JO SEI cow 980 ~ পু woTNSTMboY jue] (1০০৫9 141‏ 
چو" 
39997 جو لف ںو 00 26-0481" 
20 1500 وہ ٠ ٦۶۹ 380:14 ০‏ کرو 
200৬: ] 7٤‏ ہز 6۷ اش سس اکا PCP] 10 00839 9817 Jo জয়া‏ 00 £ 3ہو 


473 


_ ~ 
= 


CALCUTTA GAZHTTE, JULY 12, 1956 


٦ 
7 


81: TO 1۱ 


সপ‏ رےرتچت 
سے مو سے ۔چجچھووچویے-- بے 


1 200000>٭ ج۰ £409“ 


* چ> چ- 9550 “ON‏ آ9] 669০‏ 


[weusy)y “1D‏ را 


~6F6T JO 90 ‘OK আজও OT টি 
"0) ٣ 


pus গুণে হও ৪4059.63%৯ 


স্পিড 49 SE ‘ON UH) ডা ٭٭‎ 


#4930 
pus [50০58 175 9514 


—BSI6I 50 LE ‘ON چ- وسوو‎ শু ٭٭‎ 


্ 639940 


VE “OR OW YI **‏ مز 01ھ 


“৪০ 
Om} PUS ای تب او یی‎ 


۔۔وج68٤‎ JO OF “ON یہ وہ یع‎ °° 


وو یب یناو “bie‏ 
ج٠‏ پ٠‏ و وہ JO GIT OK‏ £86» 


14501 11908323 “dg 


26790 202 “OX gE ٭ ےہ آپ‎ 
(00) 9৮ 2০ 14 ON দিত) و- پ-‎ " 
۲61 ۶ا مز‎ ON جم‎ পু * 


[UBY 501৪ 15‏ ون" 


600) 2667 JO SE “ON 9৩0 “শু ** 


“৪5270 
pus rea ৩০) 97م‎ [0 


(00) 261 JO 2৪ یرہ“‎ ০ ۔- چ‎ * 


৬৬৫৯1, হি ৮০৩০ শি 


puv 
—‘d 0) 2861 ১০1৪০ پ- ری‎ "ঢু * 


"কঃদ০0 GBT 3৯4০০০15০00 وم‎ 


(৩ 10) 4857 ৩০16 OK ০৯৪0 শু ٭٭‎ 
৮১৪] +۷٣ “ON IBD "Vv স্যু oe 


"গু “GD SUIS 10 


—Lt61 JO 01 ON نے‎ “yf 
9۶6 ۲ JO Sz ON چ- پ- ر٭ھ‎ +* 
9۶61 5০05 "ON OFEQ WT °° 
9617 JO 01 ‘ON ০9৬০ چ*‎ "পু *- 

এক. و مز‎ ‘OK ০৬০ ٭٭ چ چ‎ 
9867 JO F ‘ON 90 “YT ٭٭‎ 
96۲ JO € “OK aveg cy "ঢু ٭٭٭'‎ 
01ج‎ JO 49 یرہ"‎ প্র و چ‎ 


٦بزالی‏ تر لاق سے 
apa) গজ একি,‏ 


সভা 5০ GE ON 9 "চা ٭٭ غع٭×‎ 


| ৮৫4০) ১৫ 
975৩ epuwaeNy এগেঘাছে। jo 
আঙগ0/ড০৪ = jer ঢা], 


—SF6I 5008 “ON ود‎ ড় ي-‎ ٠ 


*s0UD Vid وق‎ 


—G6t6I JO 2 OX BHD ‘VY “I ** 


"৪19 pue 07ک‎ জ্যান্ত ء٤‎ 


—@¥6T JO G2 OK EQ YY শু ” 


es HB aipuvsaiagd 


সপ্ত, JO TL “ON ওত) "ঘি “J ** 


ভজন Vive “Wg‏ ۹خ 


—Gt6I JO SE “ON BE ‘Y “ET ° 


ك0(۳([] ০‏ 1999110]جہ- 


ھ89011 57569 0۲91* 


৮১১৫1 
01 


راز 8ز پر گیٹ نز رج 
]و ৮ শু 308215708০৮ সেভ wads‏ ر٭٭< স্কেচ JOTL ON‏ 


GF 3939071‏ 036و 
Woya 02 4৬০৪৪) Jo‏ 
51395[ اہ eure 200820856107050۴ ay} JO‏ 30 ریت 1ء0 39 WO pubs‏ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


474 


00s * নী = “wIpaTyy WV Sees 19 


006 9 we —6I6L ISI “ON WEDQ'V “I” ofa Test 
7 7 9 0 
on রি 001 ٠ - مر جورم‎ Ic ON (۴ - ٢ 1 St 
00৮7 وی‎ 6s es 00১৮6 85 ee 061 po 69 "ON 38h) শা ا‎ we آ0‎ 667 
>2 75 :ہتپ‎ jo متمیسمہ‎ "0 
و:ےون‎ = 0০৪০9 রী রি -0888৩77 Ox OE) YT ۰ 16 ie 
310 چپ‎ 
inne 22 a صومم!‎ TEN ভঘ3০০০৩৭ 1 
সি ٴ0 نت‎ ০৪ وچ ور ور‎ OX জজ) YT * 8116 ater 
q3 وب‎ PHO “TO 
٤ 1 es ee ۰ 
init Le a 009৫ 796৮ وع مر‎ ON وھد‎ পশু *+ 016 991 
4 ٠ ee ee سے‎ 7 ag CVq انا‎ 30 
چون‎ ٤ 08 7 oe es —§S61 সিং ON BD ا ئ °° ۳ظ“‎ 9, 
ئم:+- وو‎ 0) 
7 7 گر بی ن انہارسژ ات‎ 
0902 002 te oe :جم‎ JO وچ‎ ON 9৪৬) “VI ** 0 22 
“37039 کی سا‎ 
we -٦ ; ভ ০0৩৭৬ [ভন ~ 
002 ® 002 ae on 0৫6 JO یع‎ "ON 3 yy ও onid sist 
০০ oe ‘pre ٦(۹ 09082 7 9 
ons 00g ০ ** مر رووں۔۔‎ ৪ ON 9৪ "পু ٭.‎ onia SIST 
7 me 7 "QO "۲١ زو-ی:)--چتەوتەن0٭‎ 
001 Oot ** ٠ 6৮6 JO 19 ON ORD VT ٭-‎ ond LIST 
009 ee ee ae - ندائرر ں رو یں غ‎ 1 নও 
009 টি কর —0S61 JO ও یرہ‎ 9550 "যু °° 0" 081. 
pwumny পথ এগ ০ ۱ 
ee an ڑ3‎ e + 
oot রি 007 এ ee 6761০ وج‎ ON WHO “YT °° 16وہ‎ 0 
7 = “PS ۲٣۲٢٠۳٣٣٣٣ ت‎ 
= ক্র 001 রি "> +:৫0:০) 096T Jog “ON وہ‎ “VT *" ond لسن‎ 
]جو‎ 
Out ০ 7 wd = ورووں۔‎ 20 TIEN FIPUIGIT 0 
00. es —6t6T JO 19 ON 9৪50 ‘VY “IT ٭‎ ANd LO8T 
5 7 : : ৫৬] BN عمجدکچی‎ 19 
007 روید‎ 00: on ee —0S6I 3০ SON ہے‎ -া পু ** 0 9081 
ان‎ ee ee ee es “O° FUVIVG Sy 0 
00F oe —6t6I JOS ‘ON OB YT ** od 5087 
آ00‎ ee ee a “409 30110110 এজন وج‎ 
oot 5 6 JO LON چہ چ رود‎ ** 00“ ১11 
& 
ee ie oe تیر یو ا نبہ‎ Ve 1D 
آ00‎ oot °- ٠ -095চ JO SON ৩ چپ‎ °° oid 80৪1 
7 5 75 = 19°C [11০৩৪ و‎ 
008 00৪ ٠ "661 JO ৪০1২ ae) “YT ** od 81 
a 7 নর [জ্ঞান [গাভওজ "10 
oot 007 “e ٠ جووں۔‎ Jo § OK one -y یب‎ ৯৯ onid TORT 
বিজ rae 29 “seq WVAQeeypeY 10 
ج0‎ 00766 ee “ 161م‎ 308 “ON 9৪5০ ‘WY "টু ১" ০2110 00৪1 
z 1 
ee ৬০ 7 * পচতে 994০00দ02 £* - 
آ00‎ 00 = i —6¥61 JO I ‘ON ا وہس‎ 0 Gif 
7 ۷56 تہ رك‎ 0 রাত ৪১১, 
iin 006 —Orel Jo T ‘ON oom) 0 পু سے شت‎ Tens ال‎ 
es § "Su va چو‎ tH "8H > § 
9৮67 3 
9-7 وبا‎ on eee = pou ؟ہ 8085" ٭چر‎ 990703 T] oN 
01m ناج‎ Yeq ৬৬০৭৯ 0٥ض وہ‎ 9০0০ ৩০ ے‎ 
*۲9(07 থর 298 ٤ ১8099 Jed ۴ ae ৪০ Jed 8ع‎ ٦130 100 § ৩০ pany 10 Woszed O43 Jo aUTEY 07 جہ‎ 30 ও [rg 


a‏ ےل 
১611১‏ 


20 ۱ 
30000 


4 


102৮3: 
14). ) 
| | ২২ ۸۷۸۸۷ +۹ AM 
لا‎ 1 vig A 8111.)14১1 , ۹ 11 1 
\ 00 7] ) 0٦ Ve : ra 2 : 
۱ : > a 7111.4 (৮ ry). 
7 13710128701 1177) 4 
Any 11091511 060ر‎ 


১110) 


91 
17741, 
/ 


ay eA 
۸۷ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


476 


000৫7 
0093 


FY ۔‎ 0 04468 ٠ 


0009 


کو سی 


989 20ي‎ 
٢ "৫৩৭৪ স্পা Ke 

٠-11٠ ¥ রর 
Pd eT وروں ڈو‎ -০০৭০0 وی‎ 


ea (04 ৬ 


489107 


: 


ادن 
৪‏ کچ تھ یبس رسس 


1-: 2281ھ 


8 
کت 


گ7 
we'Zs*t‏ 
00g‘T‏ 

009 )چان‎ 
00949 ০০০৪৮ ০০৪ 0০0৮9 
او ای‎ oy ای ات‎ "eu 
1 *1070061 1 
“00 "02-0961 71 00৮8 
৮ uwy% > % 8 25940 


oul 


a: 


“wa 


“eu “wa 


1 -۶عي۴* 9۶98۲1 ٭٘۲ً۱ ووج! 


প্রভু 8099 Jed §¢ 


“IVONAS 84 


পু 


% ৪ 


069 


21৮78‏ بج )33 تث دہ 


اعت م8 
৯০৬৬ 3051 SERIE 00‏ 


MPa Hy sFa[[0H پا از‎ “20০199929৫58 


‘puag‏ مہرد ٭ 
یش یت ا تا হেল‏ کے۸115 009003 


FH‏ إدمووہ- 


وودتندودصت* 4youay পাসের ০0‏ مصصح' وک 


: سن‎ 92900 
ওত ۱۷2099 jo ۹0301023-080 «43139 


"8 7760 “8৮০০ YFP 4৯৯০০ [৪০0০ 
eBucgq 3004 ‘sums Jo [9096)-5099197 


“SHUTS ‘TOTAL 


یں ا روز یر جک رر ػ5 تد 


--۰-: فر مرھد‎ 55900 YWON ৩০০টি ২০০৩৩ 


“UOTART 


"(NOHO «BNE 45০০৪৪৪০গর 9০০৩ 


Wop 4310 “০০৪০০ aapynsexg 
[৬8৩০৪ ‘sayjddog 11410 ‘squawmes0R ju 0د۶0‎ 
15০এ “IniveH onqng 3০ ৬০০০ 


728. 


81 


لف 


1887 


0-7 


5967 
Seer 
LOST 


9987 
9981 


الس 
6৮৪7‏ 
5997 


(1 


”کمچ بنمجمد Jo‏ ججدہ“ yom‏ دہ 


85503180 Jo 10790900 
VIINIVH ০৪৪09 0 [15009 Jo 35000 ‘eBpar PT) 


‘ “ERNIE ۹ 
wWouylEdsd 531৬9 BQug ‘1eeUssUy pert) 


WINIVH “SVN Iv}_ £১৪019০23 AW 


لع زدڈوتہ- 
MIO‏ ری بج تق وھ یں ذریں زر Wom,‏ 


(قہووزج1وّی) 1٥0 “5৫৬0‏ م وو 


“* ৪0০০ ۲۵۶008 369.44 JO رہمفو؛‎ -০০3098 "WV 


ای 


"[eBusq 3528 
‘COMDIL رت۷‎ 0-9 ۲۰۰۳۰۰ ۰-7 


“LAPART‏ یسب 


Hoe 
mg 
(Hye. 
4 
sy ‘ey sy 
গু 003 u 
“aN wT 
০ 6 “Ss 


%s 


“PRY 


on 


71۷۷۵۹ 390 در‎ ৩০ 200955 551:5۲ ভ১)০ জগ (Hes 


“9961 ۱۹0۵۰۸۵6 ISIE 9৪) BO “81731۴5 “51981 89 0008 ٥۸2090۷ ৪৪) Aq “560153 pag “۶ زا5 نا‎ 597190555 1082:04865 ৪7 ز٥‎ (5)801 এ৪5/$5558 480৮0 1056538 1580216 مر 11510 84850 !تا‎ JUNESOR مع‎ ২০1১, 


471 


*(*Bygo) 3০৪৬২৪২ 
‘IVd এ এ 
৭০961 ‘ssquusd ay 1575 11ھ 1ھ‎ 
07ہ'‎ jo UNG ৩৪০৪৩ 
a cae ene 092'I ace eee see eee one coe ose ove ave ese sen ۲023036 789 “83519 ৪,700338.01) ‘yuepuajuyzadng 6887 
2000ی‎ 389.4 


Jo WeuaAOH (৮০৫৮ ' 0۲ا صھرت جح‎ pay ও775910) 32010015 
JO sOHA)-wasconnguysyg pus 2700(6 مز‎ ৩০০০1 


wyofseg '3৩০াওতার 9/192০০৯ LEST‏ 270 307ئ5 রি “*  900'ST se = = se ই “ 2955৮ (750190 “OMA‏ و রর “sy on aie mae‏ آ00 


“72050 *97410}007KCT 


00458 - eco wae: 00۶ wee ea ace 0097 ৯৬৩ ose ase zee ese «ee seo pes 20.204 59910010 01و8 21039 ۶3۳۳1815000 چو وعو 03] 1ئ نلیا‎ 


7320و- 
৮.১] ৪‏ و ری ا ئا ase 0092 ace ese oon see eve ses ese ove ee eae “yaemngredag (q 2 " 88) 502111 09 ০:11‏ 00 


098৭4 000 Ree eee 003‘8t PY tv} 0904 een eos وھ‎ eee 99৭0৭ aoe see ave چرو م3ق حجۓ“ وی 00779055507 بے 1تاحطت* رو زا یف وہ وھ‎ "21 xy FOST 


‘ sce ace eee ove ৮৬৩ ৩৬৩ ہہ‎ লিলি 0 91 , ٠ رط اررھ‎ 
ود رپا رش را‎ sea sae eee ase 00658 0 ڈ 81 0د 43]]8۸ک‎ [৯০] টস ema 9ع‎ 


0:۶۰92 7٦ “i cos 003 se OLT'T "0098 = 000"8 90? a بت‎ 2 ۲ a ; DOAN یہت جو سی اس نیک‎ 29৪1 


"0008 و‎ টা وخ‎ ৪ রা ote وت یم‎ as 0 ar ° থে سای ا‎ peBueg ںی یا ہے جا‎ 16RT 


00007 i রি 7 vee ase one wee “৮6000 টি one a 2 = ns = 2 ٭-‎ GORA Supping yowtyey “ چچحجمدمجبدد کزوولرہەحدد×‎ 0উপা 


1৪০০৪ 


00٥٥+ bee ৬৩৬ eee ove وہ‎ ool eee 1118 ace seve 000°Z8 ase ooo ose vee ৪৬৬ 193.04 ‘Buplsuysug “Hd “51310 183 چجرددصجمد چڑںھر0جود“‎ 6ERT 


0893 ace eee eve ace pes aes von aoe eee pee ہہ‎ (esueq 236ھ‎ ‘suoyouL) پ9‎ ٣٤ Seat 


00065 wae وہہ‎ eae See see 000'6S eee ese ete وج‎ eee vue ope eee ہہ ہ۔٭‎ oss prog رر نی‎ pus 48310175559 * S33IPjog 2908 دوھک"‎ 20 3 g 1 


005" ace see eee eee ova ৮৬৩ ees ece eee eee -7 آ00‎ টি {3 {deo 214013214 0٦ Apey ‘yaepuaj;nadng Tope 1ر‎ 


00068 00068 mag een 00049 eee 0209 eae eae مم‎ 000 00086 eos one ave oes eae 5০8 “19۷۲ 01০04752800 1ئ نایب گا ان ارب‎ Sec 8৪৪1 


ese ese ose وہہ‎ ese oop t € ریم‎ 
dso [vou و و قدمرسرمسوجمسرک و- 9" ےار‎ rect 


7 5 ود‎ পি 90500533509 “ওঠার ৪9০ 

0 a 5 a Re -7 ক eee ৪ = a a 7 2 7 MoMA [আজ 2مد“‎ ০5০০০ چھوچ‎ 

a 7 7 রঃ re 7-۰ রর a -7 ہیں جس‎ নিও ee ۰ [3০০5 om ومدتوسمدجد' وہ صعدمدر مر‎ MOGET EET 
শেন 369.4 JO ২9য39৯০) 


0008 awe see ئ000 دہ‎ 000'F coe دوہ‎ 0007 eee ove o0o*se coe coe see eos see ০১1১০০1১০১৫ آ(115‎ DUR | “21937 Pi. A “+01307 چجمووہدد‎ 09৪7 


“SHARD 08০4৭ 411: حیومتد‎ 


00888 908৮8 vee ase aes eee ہ ہہ‎ ene কাজ seo ese eve ave 2e8 ری‎ zeus pees 1৬৫৪] 00773002500 کے - ]33د‎ শপ € # 1 چچرودوجبدہ‎ 85৪ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


009° aee see ese eas see ses see ese can vee see ۲530386 ‘mMUsAsy JO pivog عوجدسد روک“‎ 821 
وب عدی)‎ poo) sayddng چموں' چڑدتچیوجر٭ە مع‎ 


02 کروی quam ভিসি) Rouse‏ مر 7 gees‏ ہہ" سی 

000৫৫ ৮ - এ aus ৬০ oe sae 000'sz - ক wwe we nse 7 mo ٠ خر ٹر‎ 90৯05 23ک“‎ jo مذدتةمممر‎ -4357০৩০০৪ و رو‎ 

0٦ --* ٠ ve -** = QOL FL ad = cs = os sad = ই = ae i Saypeafreq ‘unyepurg ওও مس ع ص‎ ‘kreyaweg 9281 
wu 7H SY oH چو۔ چو‎ 3H wu ‘<a چر-‎ শু co vy wu +H নু 3H ا‎ 


১১11৯, 
হ رر‎ "dad 
089৩7 27৩6 ‘—O9-CCOT ৬০৮ 9667 ৮৩১৬১৪3৪০ “SG-EGEi “41-0:56 1  ৪9-9967 ئ٢‎ 951 887 وعہ دق (دٹریروگرد-‎  +5915581750 
হও Uwe] 11807 ہے 831186 11907۲ اع‎ ae 17007 uvoy uvoyT এগ JIN eri ১০০০4 এও মু সিন ভি "£6-VARI “pry "ON 
THY رق‎ ৩০ ডট by > % ty ৭০ ٭‎ % 3 [5০7 تع‎ % শত st % ও % ع‎ % ٤ج‎ v fe 29h) 3884 Gf ৪ دک شند الم سب‎ (ভব OYUN GO 2057 5717 ۶ sy ور‎ ওহ ہے عح‎ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 12, 1956 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 


Caleutta, the 23rd June 1956. 
Notice under section 63(2) of Bengal Act V of 
1911 


Proposed Pubbe Street. No. I] (Supplementary 
[From Alignment No, 11 (Revised) to Sal Lane} 
Notice is hereby given under section 63(2) of 
Rengal Act V of 1911, ag amended hy West Rengal 
Act XXXTI of 1955, that the Board of Trustees for 
the inuprovement of Calcutta have prepared a plan 
of the proposed puble street in Ward No. 48 of 
the Calcutta Municipality, known as Alignment 
No. II (Supplementary) [Proposed Public Street 
from Alignment No. II (Revised) to Sil Lane. ] 


The plan provides for opening & 60 teet wide 
street from the projected gyratory ot Alignment 
No. II (Revised) to the Railway culvert near the 
junction of Sil Lane and lottery Road. 
The proposed Public Street will pass through 
the following Municipal holdings :— 
Convent Lane—4. 
Kamardanga Road—3R/1 and 3R/2. 
Pottery Road—13/1B, 32/1A, 82/1B, 92). 
B2F, 32/1/1B, 33/1, 338A, 9913, 43C, 
83D, 34, 34/1B, 84/10, 84111), 241 115, 
34/1F, سک‎ 301), 36, 36/1, 37, 7 
38, 38/1, 49/1۸, 39/1B, 389A, 39B, ۰ 
400, 40D, 41, 47 and 48. 

Sil Lane—lA, 22 and 28. 


The plan of the proposed Public Street and the 
ما ا‎ of land through which the proposed 
Public Street will pass, may be inspected at the 
office of the Trust, 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1, on weekdays hetween the hours ot 
1] am. and 3 p.m., Saturdays 11 a.m. anid 
12-30 p.m. 


Copies of the Notice may be obtained on pay- 
ment of ہ‎ fee of annas 2 per copy and of the plan 
at annas 8 per copy. 


Objections to the said plan may be submitted 
on or befere the 28th September 1956, 


S. K. GUPTA, Chairman. 
Calcutts Improvement Trust 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government ee West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 12th uly 1966. 


Registered No. C207 | Ne. 342(1) 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


I re‏ 0تت 


THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1956 


স্পা 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No, "2778Dis. [1 /151-14/55.—23rd June 1956.—Whereas under the 
\dovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2417Dis./D/ 
15L-14/55, dated the Ist June 1950, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Lakshmi Oil Mills, 11 Shib Takur Jane, Calcutta-7, and their workinen 

presented by Union of 011 Mill Workers, 283/1/1A Upper Circular Road, 
8 regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was 
rf -rred for adjudication to the First Industrial Tribunal; 


Aud whereas the said First Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
‘Igdtstyal Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), tne Governor 1s pleased 
hereby to publish the said award 08 shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in tho matter of an industrial Dispute between Messrs. Lakshmi 011 Mills, 
11 Shib Thakur Lane, Calcutta-7, and their workmen represented by 


Union of Oi) Mill Workers, 233/1/1A Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta-4. 


BEKORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suar M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retd.), Judge, First Lndustrial 
Tribunal. 


The (Jovernment of West Bengal, in the Labour ])epartment, by order 
No, 2417Dis./D/15L-14/55, dated Ist June 1955, referred, under sections 


1635 


1636 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 [Parr I 


7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of ات‎ the indus- 
trial dispute between Messrs, Lakshmi Oil Mills, 11 Shib Thakur Late, 
Calcutta-7, and their workmen represented by Union of Oil Mill Wozkers, 
দি {1A Upper Circular Road, Calcutta-4, regarding the matters specified 
in the following schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. 


Schedule 


(1) Rate of wages of different categories of workers. 
(2) Service condition. 

(3) Provident Fund and Gratuity. 

(4) Bonus. 


Notices were issued on both parties, who appeured and 0 qitten 
statements setting forth their respective cases. 


The Union, in its written statement, states as follows:— 


The Union was formed in May 1954. The Union submitted o charter 
of demands as mentioned in Appendix A on {8th January 1955. The 
charter of demands comprises of ten items of demands. Four of the items 
have been referred for adjudication in the order of reference. ‘The details 
of the claims of the Union in regard to the issucs referred for adjudicaton 
will be considered at the time of the decision of the issues. 


The Company, in its written statement, states as follows :—* 


The Company has suffered immeasurable financial set-back during recent 
years and the export of one of its products, linseed oil, has dwindled to a 
very negligible quantity due to keen competition tm 11১9 
international market. As a consequence of the curtailment of export, 
the volume of work in the oil mills of the Company has been much reduced, 
resulting in loss to the Company in trade and profit. In the field of 
mustard oil even, there is heavy competition in the market and the position. 
is daily deteriorating. The Company at one time thought of drastic 1educ- 
tion of their lahour torce commensurate with the requirements but finally 
retained all the workers in service on the representation of the West 
Bengal Qil Mills Workers’ Union and also for the purpose of avoiding any 
industrial unrest and affording maximum accommodation to the workmen. 
The contending Union is advancing unreasonable demands which are 11610 
out before the workmen as their real grievances without any reference to 
the actual condition of the industry. The reply of the Company in regard 
to the issues mentioned in the order of reference will be considered at the 
decision of the issues. 


The appearances for the parties were as follows :— 
For the Unwn: Shri S. K. Ganguli, Secretary. 


For the Company: Shri M. Saha, Advocate, and Shri H. L. Roy, Pleader, 
assisted by Shri H. K. Ghosh, an Officer of the Company. 


The issues framed for the decision of this case are the same as those 
mentioned in the order of reference and are as follows’ :— 


(1) Rate of Wages of different categories of workers. 
(2) Service condition. 

(3) Provident Fund and Gratuity. 

(4) Bonus. 


part 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1637 


AWARD 
Decisions 


issue No. 1,—Rate of wages of different categories of workors,—The 
[nion states in its written statement that in the year 1952 the ghanimen 
were getting Rs. 91 per month for six pressings in 8 hours but that there- 
atter they have been executing seven pressings during the same period 
without any increase of wage. The Union, therefore, claims for increase 
of the existing wage of all the workers by 25 per cent. The Company 
states that it is fully ا‎ 6 to the last award made in 1952 in respect of 
workers who have been broadly classified into two categories, skilled and 
nneakilled, in the mills. The ghanimen (skilled) and coolies (unskilled) of 
the Lakshmi 0011 Mills are the two categories of workers, who are paid 
(07111181115 on the basis of consolidnted monthly wages inclusive of dearness 
allowance at the following rates :— 


(i) (thanimen (skilled)—Rs. 91 per month. 
(it) Coolies (unskilled)—Rs. 57-8 per month. 


[1 is stated that the industry has no capacity to pay more to the workers. 
These wages as paid by the Company to ee above two categories of 
workers exceed the wages fixed 05 minimum wages for the oil mills in 
West Bengal by the State (lovernment. The minimum wages as fixed by 
the Government are Rs. 50 inclusive of dearness allowance per month for 
unskilled labourers and Rs. 76 inclusive of dearness ullowance for skilled 
labourers. The claim of increase of 25 per cent. in the existing rates of 
wages is Wholly unjustified and should be rejected. 


۲.٢٦ ۰ 1 Shri Tarapada Banerji, P.W. 2 Shri Babulal and P.W. 3 Shri 
Mal Chand Gossain were examined for th: Union. O,P.W. 1 Shri Pham 
Bhusan Basu was examined for the Company. P.W 1 states that the 
ghanies of this Company are of 20 seers, and the ghanimen used to have 
six pressings 1p a 8-hour day till the date of the award of the Tribunal 
over, this mill and other 0 published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
20th March 1942, and that after the date of this award, the Company 
1esorted to seven pressings a day, as it was authorised in this award. The 
ghanimen used to get Rs. 91 per month while doing six pressings in a day 
of 8 hours and when the pressings were made seven in the day, even then 
the wage was Rs, 91 per month and not more. It is stated that as a result 
of the increase of the number of pressings in a day from six to seven, the 
workload has increased. In cross-examination, this witness states that 
the ghanimen worked for 8 hours in a day without any recess. He was 
not aware if there was any protests for not granting half an hour’s tiffin 
recess in accordance with the terms of the Tribunal award. The witners 
also states that the workers did not inform the Factory Inspector about this 
grievance, The evidendce of P.W. 2 and P.W. 3 does not relate to the 
issue in question. O.P.W. 1 states in his evidence that the Company is 
paying more than what has been provided for in the last award. 


The'award of the Fourth Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, on the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Lakshmi Oi] Mills and five other mills and their 
workmen, published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 20th March 1952, 
dealt in one of its issues about fixation of a normal standard limiting the 
maximum number of pressings and the number of ghanies to be attended 
to by a worker in the course of a day. The Government of West Bengal, 
ا‎ the Department of Labour, by notification No. J121Lab., dated 
Sth January 1950, appointed a Committee to held enquiries and to advise 
the“(iovernment in fixing minimum wages in respect of employment 10 
the oil mills in West Bengal. The report of this Committee was sent to 


1638 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 {Parr ] 
পু NN TE A aT 


the Government on 12th December 1951, and by notification No. 14867,907). 
dated 7th March 1951 (Caloutta Gazette, dated 16th March 1951), the 
Government was pleased to fix the minimum rates of wages payable to 
employees employed in the oil mills in the State of West Bengal, as speci- 
fied in the schedule annexed thereto. In accordance with that ঠা 
minimum rates of basic wages and dearness allowance payable to the 
employees of oil mills in Calcutta and Howrah so long as the cost of living 
index was 350 with 1939 as 100 were fixed as follows :— 


Daily rate. Weokly rate. Monthly rate, 

Rs. a. p. Rs. &, p. Rs. a. p. 

I. Unskilled— ? রি ۰ْ 
(a) Basico wage... ৪ ও 1 0 0০ 6 0 0۵ 26 0 9 

(8) Dearness allowan . OM 9 5 8 6 2% 09 0 

Total 1 14 9 ll B 6 5 09 06 

I. Semi-skilled— 

(a) Basico wage... 1 3 9 7 6 0 32 9 0 

(6) Dearness allowance 9 14 9 § 8 6 24460 ৪ 

Total 2 2 6 12 14 6 56 09 0০ 

গা, Sskilled— 

(a) Basic wage... - 2 0 9 12 0 9 2ت‎ 9 90 

(b) Dearness allowance ےم‎ © 0 14 9 5 8 6 24 0 9 

Total 2 14 98۵ 17 8 6 76 0 0 


By notification No. 4163Lab., dated 4th July 1951 (vide Calcutta Gazette, 
dated 12th July 1951), the Government of West Bengal, in the Depart. 
ment of Labour, fixed for the employees in the oil mills in the State of 
West Bengal, the hours of work constituting u normal working day, the 
period of interval for rest, the day for weekly rest, und the rate of over. 
time in a schedule to the notification, Fight working hours including an 
interval of rest for half an hour was ordered to constitute a normal working 
day and six such days in a week provided that all or any section of 
employees-in any 01] mill may be required by the employer to work up to 
Dine hours in any day subject to the weekly limit of 48 hours, It was 
further ordered that work in any 01] mill, which is a factory within the 
meaning of the Factories Act, 1948 (LX UT of 1948), shall be subject to 
the condition Inid down in Chapters VI and VII of the Factories Act, 
1948. Sunday is the day for weekly reat and for work beyond normal 
working hours the employees are to be paid at double the ordinary rate, 
in accordance with the provisions of section 59 of the Factories Act, 1948. 
The wward, dated Ist March 1952, between Lakshmi 0011 Mulls and _ five 
other mills and their workmen directed that the normal wage is 10 be 
received by a ghaniman for 11 pressings of 2 line of 12 ghanies, ench gham 
having a capacity of 10 seers seeds and of seven pressings of a line of 
12 ghanies, each ghani having a capacity of 20 seers seeds. It was further 
awarded that if the pressings were less on account of want of raw materials 
or any other reason, the wage received by the workmen would not suffer on 
that account, and that if the pressings in the 8-hour day were more than 
the standards mentioned above, the ghanimen would receive an extra wage 
of 4 annas 3 pies for every extra pressing of 12 ghanies, each ghanz having 
a capacity of 10 seers, and an extra wage of 6 annas 6 pies for every 
pressing of a line of 12 ghantes, each 9175 having a capacity of 0 
seeds. It is also mentioned in this award that in the Lakshmi Oil Mill 
where a ghani had the capacity of 20 seers seeds the average number of 
pressings made by the ghanimen per day in July, August and September 
were 54. The Union, therefore, claimed that inasmuch as there were 
only six pressings per day in this mil] before the date of the award above: 
mentioned and the number of pressings were increased to seven after the 


paut 1} THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1639 


date of that award, there was an intensification of the workload on the 
ghanimen und, therefore, there should be a rise in the wage. It is, how- 
ever, clear that whereas the minimum wage of the skilled worker, i.e.. the 
ghaniman, was Rs. 76 by the notification under the minimum Wages 
Act, the wage for 0 ghaniman in this Company was Rs. 91 per month. 
The minunum wage for an unskilled worker was fixed by the notification 
to be Rts. 50 per month, while this Company paid him Rs. 57 per month. 
The workmen of this Company were, therefore, in receipt of monthly 
wages Which were more than the minimum notified wages. The workmen 
and the Company are both bound by*the award, dated 20th March 1962, 
which fixed the normal standard limiting the maximum number of press 
ings and the number of ghanies to be attended to by the worker in the 
course of the day. The workers are, therefore, bound to execute seven 
pressings Of a 20-seer ghani during a normal day of 8 hours, although they 
were doing fewer number of pressing before the date of the last award. In 
view of the fact, however, that the Company has heen already paying 
much more than the notified wages, I do not consider that the claim for 
increase of wage is justified and this issue is accordingly answered. 


issue No. 2.—Service Condition.—Tht Union states on this issue as 
follows :— 

(a) The workers are working overtime, but are not getting double rate 
of wage as per Factory Act, 1648 

(4) Considerable number of workers are laid off and these laid-off 
workers are not paid the lay-off compensation in accordance with the Act. 
Regular workers are laid off and new and casual workers are recruited to 
carry on the work of production. No attendance register is maintained 
duying the lay-off period and no notice for joining duty is issued to indivi- 
dual workers. The Company is endeavouring to drive out the laid-off 
workers and replace them by new hands. It is, therefore, prayed that the 
workers working for less than six months may be given compensation for 
involuntary unemployment, and the workers working for more than six 
months may be made permanent. 


(c) As the workers’ incomes are very low, they cannot afford to pay 
house rent and are compelled to live in inhuman condition in the unhealthy 
bustees. The workers of Messrs. Bhagat Oi] Mil] are getting the benefit 
: free —— Suitable free quarters should be given to the workers of 
this mill. 


)0( The workers working in the night shift are to pay more attention 
and energy in order to accomplish their jobs. They should be allowed 
special allowance. 


The Company, in its written statement, states as follows :— 


(2) The Company does not permit any overtime work, save and except 
in extreme cases of absolute necessity only. The workers are paid overtime 
wages under the provisions of the Factories Act whenever they have to 
work overtime. 


(b) The statements made by the Union with reference to lay-off 
are denied. There has not been a single case of lay-off in this 
Company. ‘This is a baseless and malicious allegation against the Com- 
pany. Even in face of adverse circumstances affecting trade, the Company 
19৭ never taken recourse to involuntary unemployment of workers. The 
70100. has misconstrued the automatic termination of service of casual 
workers whose employments become indispensable at times of shipments as 
well as of speady despatches and unloadings. With reference to Union's 
allegations regarding recruitment of casual workers, the Company states 
that to handle shipments and loadings and unloadings of consignments, 


1640 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 [Parr ] 


ক 


sometimes workers linve to be taken casually when it becomes imperatively 
necessary in cases of emergency but cbeir employments automatical 
terminate on the completion of the specific or particular jobs for which 
they are appointed. 


(c) Free quarters: With reterence to the Union's demand for free 
quarters or house rent in lieu thereof, the Company states that it is heyond 
its 01077100181 capacity tu provide tree quarters or grant ront in Its exchange 
to the workmen. The Company is a very small unit, both سا‎ financial 
capacity and size. Tt does 1)0 merit any comparison with Messrs. Bhagat 
Qil Mills. Building of houses for ‘accommodating workmen in a city like 
Calcutta by the Company is financially আধ 


The workers have to work in the night shift by rotation‏ لم 
as ond and when their turn comes. The Union’s demand for‏ 
special allowance to the workers of the night shift is unjustified on the‏ 
plea that they have to pay more attention and energy. The Company,‏ 
therefore, opposed the Red for special allowance.‏ 


P.W. 1 Shri Tarapada Banerji states in his examination-in-chief that 
there was overtime work in 1955, In cross-examination, he says that the 
workers had overtime work at least more than once every month on 
Sundays, that they were paid single wages previously, but on the last 
accasion, the Company paid them double wages, and after that the (on- 
pany did not call them for overtime work. This payment of double wages 
was made about two months ago. He also states that the workers informed 
the Factory Inspector about this non-payment of double wages for over. 
time work. O.P.W. 1 Shri Phani Bhusan Basu states that the Company 
does not work overtime since May or June 199) and payment for over- 
time work is always made in double wages. The Inspector of Factories 
inspected the Company’s hooks after a complaint by the Union over this 
inatter, The Inspector of Factories after being satisfied signed on ۶ 
Company’s books. Exhibit A is the overtime wage register, and Exhibit 
B is the payment register. Exhibit B shows the signature of the Inspector 
of Factories on 9th June 1954. The plea of the Union that the Company 
did not pay double wages under the Factories Act for overtime work does 
not appenr to be justified. 


The plea of the Union that permanent workers were laid off and casual 
workers recruited to continue the work of production and by this method 
the Company endeavours to drive out the old workers and replace them 
by new hands has not heen justified in evidence. Tt appeara that no case 
of lay-off of a permanent worker has been proved in evidence. At the 
time of the argument, the learned spokesman for the Union named some 
casual workers whose services had been terminated after some time. There 
ean be uo doubt that casual workers and temporary workers have to face 
termination of their jobs after the completion of the job or after the 
expiry of the period for which they were emnlovyed. This is not a case of 
lay-off or involuntary unemployment of a permanent worker requiring pay: 
ment of compensation under the Act. The plea that the Company 
haphazardly laid off workers to drive ont the old workers and replace them 
by new hands is unworthy of support. There is no substance In this 
contention. 


The Union praved for suitable free quarters. It was urged that 
Mesars. Bhagat Oil Mills in Caleutta were granting the benefit of free 
quarters to their workmen. It is in evidence that Messrs. Bhagat 01) 
Mills is the biggest unit in the industry and emplovs more than four times 
the number of workmen in the present Company. The provision fot 


house rent is made in caloulating the cost of living on which the minimum 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 06 1641 


wages u8 mentioned above were fixed by the Minimum Wages Advisory 
Committee. Normally, it is not the function of the Management to 
provide accommodation tor its employees, although the principle is subject 
to qualification in certain cases where the Company sets up an establish- 
meut in ৮ rural area (wde the case of penis. Cement Companies, 1953 
L.A.C., 677 at page 683). In the Jute Textile Mills in West Bengal or in 
the Textile Mills in Bombay, no separate house rent is paid and house rent 
is ordinarily considered to be an item which must be borne by the employees. 
The claim for free quarters or for house rent in lieu thereof is not worthy 
of support and is rejected, ; 


The Union claims for special allowance for the night shift workers 
on the ground that the workers working in night shift are to pay more 
energy and attention in order to accomplish their job. In the present 
case, the Company works the factory in three shifts of 8 hours each, and 
all the workers have to work in night shifts by rotation. In these cir- 
cumstances, the claim for additional allowance for the workers who work 
in the night shift is not justified. It has been decided in the case of Fire- 
stone Tyre & Rubber Co, of India Ltd,, reported in 1953 L.A.C., 509, at 
7986 211) that it is a common feature in all industries where there are 
three shifts that some of the workmen should have to work at night and 
in such cases the wage structure assumes that the workmen should be 
required to do night shifts in turn. The learned Tribunal decided that 
when 1 19 not suggested that any of the workmen is not permanent 
night shift worker, no special allowance should be given for work in the 
night shift. This decision was given following the decision of the same 
(0011 in the case of the Fertiliser and Chemicals Travancore Ltd., 
Alwave ]1951)11( 15150. ا‎ These decisions have been approved by 
“3 Full Bench of the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribun@l of India in 

essrs. Asbestos Cement Ltd., reported in 1954 L.A.C., 1 at 4. It 18, 
therefore, clear that the claim for special allowance for the night shift 
workers 18 incompetent. This claim 1s, therefore, rejected. 


Issue No. 3.—Provident Fund and Cratuity.—The Union prayed for 
introduction of Provident Fund scheme in the industry. It also prayed 
for gratuity on the basis of one month’s wages for every year of service. 
The Company states that in view of ita financial condition, it is incapable 
of introducing any Provident Fund or Gratuity scheme. At the time of 
the hearing, the Company filed the Ext. E, o letter from the Government to 
the Manager of the Lakshmi Oil Mills, stating that the Employees Provi- 
dent Fund Act, 1952, is going to he extended to the workers of the present 
Company. The learned advocate for the Company informed me that the 
Provident Fund scheme under the Employees’ Provident Fund Act, 1922, 
is very shortly going to be introduced in this Company. That being so, I 
do রি consider that any award on this question should be made by this 
Tribunal. 


1 do not consider that an additional retiring benefit in the form of a 
gratuity scheme should be introduced over and above the Provident Fund, 
which is going to be introduced by the Government soon. The claim 19 
uaworthy of support and is rejected. 


issue NO. 4.—Bonus.--The Union states that previously workers were 
getting bonus equivalent to two months’ wages annually but that the 
Company has reduced the same to one month’s wage in spite of sound 
financial position. The Tnion, therefore, claimed two months’ wages as 
honus for the year 1955. The Company states in its written statement that 
the Management has made so long erz-gratia payment of one month's basic 


1642 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 12, 1966 [Parr 1 


Oh oes tell Qe ee, :‏ » سم 


wages as bonus without any reference to profit or loss on the representa. 
tion of the West Bengal Oil Mill Workers’ Union. The er-yratea pay- 
ment of one month’s basic wages as bonus was made on 0, clear understand. 
ing that it will never be cited as a precedent for customary or Puja bonus. 
The Union’s exorbitant demands for bonus are unwarranted and unjustifi- 
0118, Even by the application of the formula enunciated by the Full 
Bench of the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribunal of India in the Mill. 
owners’ case, no bonus would be payable, as there would be no availahle 
surplus. 41 the time of the evidence, O.P.W. 1 Shri Pham Bhusan Bone 
stated that bonus was given for one ‘month’s wage in 1952-54, 195-54 and 
1954-55 as er-gratia payment and thal no payment was made in 1947-48, 
1948-49 ond 1949-50. In 1950-51 some of the employees were paid bonus 
and no bonus was paid in 1951-52. In 1947-48, however, an Independence 
Bonus for 15 days’ wages was paid. The Assessment Orders of the Income. 
tax Officer, Exts. C, C(1) and C(2) for the years of assessment 1949-60, 
1950-51 and 1951-52 show loss. The Assessment Orders of the subsequent 
years have not been received by the Company. The Company stated that it 
auffered loss also in 1952-53, 1953-54 and 1954-55. The claim 15 for bonus 
on the trading profits of the year 1954-55. At the time of the hearing, the 
parties came to an amicable settlement at my suggestion on this issue and 
it was agreed that the Company would make an er-gratia payment of one 
month’s wage to all permanent workers in lieu of their claim for bonus 
for the year 1955, and that this ez-gratta payment of one month’s wage 
will be restricted to those who received similar payments in the year 1954, 
and that this payment should not be treated as a precedent in future. This 
petition is Appendix A to this award. The agreement in Appendix A 
appears to be reasonable and I, therefore, award in accordance with — the 
terms thereof. _This issue is accordingly answered. Appendix A shall form 
a part of this 4ward. 


M. C. BANERJI, 
Judge, 
First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 15th June 1956. 
APPENDIX A 
BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


In the matter of Government 
Order No. 2417/D/15L-14-66, dated 
Ist June 1955 

And 


In the matter of an industrial 
dispute 
Between 


Messrs. Luxmi 01] Mills 
And 


Their workmen represented by the 


Union of Oil Mill Workers. 


The joint and humble petition of 
the Luxmi Oi Mills and their 
workmen represented by the above 
Union, 


Par? I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1643 


এপস 
Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH ; 


That at the suggestion of the learned Tribunal the parties to the dispute 
have come to a settlement with regard to issue No. 4 ‘‘Bonusg’”’ to the follow- 
ing effect. 


That the Company Luxmi Oil Mills will make an er-gratia payment of 
one mouth’s wages to ail permaneut workers of the Company in lieu of 
their clniinn for bonus for 1955 and this er-gratia payment of one month’s 
wages will be restricted only to those who received similar payment in the 
year 1954. This puyment 5 not he treated as precedent in future. So 
it is prayed that the Tribunal may be pleased to record this settlement 
against the claim of bonus for 1955. 


And for this petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray. 


SUSHI GANGULI, 
Secretary, Union of 011 Mill Workers. 


The {th June 1956. 
H. N. GHOSH, 
for Lakshmi Oil-Mills. 


H. L. ROY, 
Pleader. 


M. C. BANERJI, 
Judge, 


First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 15th June, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
1), 5. P. MOKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No, 2790Dis. /D/10L-100/56.—25th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 695Dis./D/! 
10L-2/54, dated the 13th February 1954, read with its Corrigendum 
No. 2313Dis./D/10L-2/54, dated the 4th May 1954, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Dhar Tin Factory, 101 Akshoy Kumar Mukherjee Road, 
Calcutta, and their workers represented by Dhur Tin Factory Workers’ 
Union, 1 Joy Bhattacharyya Lane, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified 
in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Fourth 
Industrial ‘Tribunal ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made before the said Tribunal by 
Shri Jhagru Jeswara, a worker of the said Company, against the said 
Company, alleging that the said Company had punished the said worker 
concerned in such dispute; 


1644 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 سن‎ 1 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its 7 to the State 
(Jovernment; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Jhagru Jeswara against Messrs. Dhur Tin 
Factory of 101 Akshoy Kumar Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-36, in 060. 
tion with an industrial dispute between Messrs. Dhur Tin Factory and 
their workman referred under Covernment order No. 695Dis., dated 
13th February 1954 (case No. 80 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST 71, 


PRESENT: 
Sori ১. C. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Judge, Fourth Industrial 


Tribunal. 


For the workman: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharji. 
For the Company: Shri P. K. Sanyal, Advocate. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section-33A ‘of the Industrial Disputes Act was filed by Shri Jhagru 
Jeswara stating that he was a permanent employee of Messrs. Dhur Tin 
Factory, that he had been dismissed on 4th May 1954, that there was no 
charge-sheet against the petitioner, that under the circumstances 1119 
petitioner prays that an award may be passed directing the employers 00 
reinstate him with full compensation for the period of idleness. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the ) 608 
Party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the worker Jhagru Jeswara remained absent without leave for more than 
six months since 25th May 1953, that the workman hy his such long 
absence without leave lost all lien on his service and his place was duly 
filled in, that there was no justification whatsoever for his long absence, 
that the service of the said workman was terminated by his own action, 
that im the circumstances the Opposite Party submits that the application 
as such is not maintainable both in law and in equity and should be (11৯- 
missed as merely harassing and speculative, 


The only point which arises for decision is: 


Whether Jhagru was in the employ of the Company and was disniissed 
on 4th May 1954? What relief, if any, can he get? 


AWARD 


The case of the Union is based on Ext. D. It shows that in ceurse of 
conciliation before Miss R. Dutta, Labour Officer, West Bengal, on (۵ 
March 1954, it was agreed hy the parties that “Shagru Jeawara will be 


Part [] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1645 


reinatuted in service from 2nd Baisakh 1861 B.S. und the period of hin 
absence would be treated as leave without pay’’. The Union’s case 14 that 
after this order Jhagru was reappointed and he worked till 4th May 1954 
when he was again dismissed. সিন দা after that on 10th May 1954 
Union complained about it to the same Labour Officer Miss R. Dutta and 
they pushed the matter over there for some time but when the attempt 
for a settlement proved abortive they applied for a copy of the proceedings 
on lat June 1954 and the Labour Officer forwarded the copy of the proceed- 
ings by Ext. D in first part of August 1954 and on getting this copy the 
Union filed this complaint on behalf of the worker on 26th August 1954 
and hence this delay has been properly explained. 


Much was made by the learned Advocate for the Company regarding 
the letter Ext. C, dated 11th June 1954, in which the Labour Officer wanted 
to know the decision of the Company regarding the matter of reinstatement 
of Jhagru and from it the learned Advocate argued that this document 
shows that the conciliation was still going on, therefore, Ext. D is 
apparently a faked document. I have considered the matter in the light 
of the circumstances of the case but I am unable to subscribe to this 
interpretation on the language of the document. The document read in 
the above context obviously shows that the Labour Officer only wanted to 
know what was the reaction of the Company regarding complaint of the 
Union made to her by Ext. 6, dated 10th May 1954. In my opinion she 
referred to the joint discussion made on 27th May 1954 simply to remind the 
Company regarding the agreement, dated 30th May 1954, and she wanted 
to know if the Company wants to drag on with the matter any further or 
if they were minded to have the differences squared up even now. But 
obviously the reaction on the Company heing unfavourable she was forced 
to issue out the copy of the proceedings to the parties and to ask the [inion 
to take legal steps which the Union had done by making a timely petition 
before this Tribunal. Of course, the Company in its turn immediately 
denied the agreement but this was only consistent with the attitude which 
the Company has shown towards the workman. 


From the evidence it seems to me that the Company had deliberately 
stooped low even to fabricate evidence in order to suppress altogether the 
fact that Jhagru had worked again in the Company for some days after 
2nd of Baisakh 1956. They have not taken his hazira with the permanent 
workers of the firm in Ext. B and they even now tried to hold him out to 
he a temporary worker by writing the word ‘“‘temporary’’ on the hazira 
book here and there. But unfortunately they had to admit later on that 
when Jhagru went on 16856 he was a permanent worker. So, in terms ot 
xt. 1) he was to he reinstated as a permanent worker the period of his 
ubsence being regarded as leave without pay. But the Company designedly 
kept note of his attendance with the other temporary workers. Here ہ٥‎ 
for fear of detection Company at first held out that it had no other 
hazira hook except Ext. B but later it was forced to admit that haziras of 
temporary men like carpenters or mistries are not entered in Ext. B but for 
them notes of hazira are kept in a separate book and wage payments are 
made by vouchers. But all these documents have been withheld. 
O.P.W.s have deliberately perjured to support a new and concocted case. 
But ?.W.s have proved that Jhagru went home on leave for 14 months 
without pay on account of his wife’s death. They have also proved the 
fact that he came hack within one month after that but he was denied his 
post whereupon he complained to the Labour Officer that during concilta- 
tion it was agreed as in Ext. D and in terms of the agreement the man 


1646 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 [Parr ] 


re সপ dp tinherrenremanrmncr AE 


actually worked during the period 2nd Baisakh til] 21st Baisukh when he 
was again discharged, that during this period his hazra was kept in 
separate hook with the temporary workers like carpenters and _ painters 
and his wages were paid on vouchers, that to suppress the real fact all 
these documents have been suppressed by the Company. As already stated 
0.P.W.’s have denied these stories but they are belied by the circum- 
stances and the probabilities of the case. Their evidence stands _ seltf- 
condemned as during cross-examination they had to admit that workers 
occasionully go home on leave without pay and 0.P.W. 2 even admitted 
that he accompanied the proprietor to‘ the Labour Commisisoner’s  (ftice 
on un occasion when there was a talk of compromise conceruing the isaue 
of Jhagru Jeswara but no proceeding was drawn up and placed before them 
for signature. But these are only half-truths and basing on these state- 
ments it 18 impossible to say that Ext. D is a faked document. 


_I, therefore, hold Jhagru was reappointed and subsequently discharged 
with the object of victimising him. He is, therefore, entitled to the 
reinstatement with back pay and I award accordingly. 


S. 0. MUKHERJI, 


Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 18th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 2842Dis./D/10L-26/55.—29th June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 5524Dis./D/ 
10L-45/53, dated the 26th November 1954, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. G. T. R. Co., Ltd., 37 Dum Dum Road, Calcutta-30, and their 
workmen represented by G. T. R. Workers’ Union, 1 Joy Hhattacharjee 
Lane, Calcutta-d, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
was referred for adjudication to the Third Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal, a complaint was filed before it against the said Company by 
Shri Raghunath Prosad and another workman of the said Company alleg- 
ing that the said Company had discharged the said two workmen concerned 
in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Govern- 
ment; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


Part 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1647 
পাস স্পা 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, as amended by Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, filed by Shri Raghunath Prosad and 
Shri Rambali Ahir against Messrs. C. T. R. Co. Private, Ltd., in 
connection with Covernment Order No. 5524Dis./D/10L-45/53, dated 
26th November 1954. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 
Suri J. N. MAITRA, Judye, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


Miscellaneous case No. 36 of 1956 under section 33A of the industrial 
Disputes Act. 


Shri Raghunath Prosud and Shri Rambali Ahir, 1 Joy 
Bhattacharjee Lane, Calcutta ۰2 
0ءء"‎ ٤ 


Messrs. G. T. R. Co. Private Ltd., 37 Dum Dum Road, 
Calcutta-30 রঃ ae 


Petitioners, 


Opposite Party. 


For the Petitioners: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharya. 
Kor the Opposite Party: Shn N. M. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


AWARD 


This is a complaint under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
by Shri Raghunath Prosad and Shri Rumbali Ahir. They alleged that 
although they were permanent workers in the Opposite Party Company, 
the, were discharged during the pendency of adjudication proceedings 
without permission. They, accordingly prayed for reinstatement as also 
payment of compensation for the period of unemployment. 


The Opposite Party Company opposed the application. It was stated 
that the application under section 338A was not maintainable. The Opposite 
Party denied that petitioner Shri Raghunath Prosad was an employee of 
the Company and pleaded that he was the personal driver of Shri D. Sinha, 
who happened to the Director of the Company; that petitioner Raghu- 
nath Prosad used to be paid his wages by Shri D. Sinha and not by the 
Opposite Party Company; that Shri D. Sinha disposed of his car and ۹ 
such services of Shri Raghunath Prosad were no longer required by him 
and that his due salary wus sent by said Shri D. Sinha by money order 
but Shri Raghunath Prosad refused to accept the same with mala fide 
intention, 


Regarding the petitioner Shri Rambali Ahir, the Opposite Party plead- 
০1 that he was a cooly employed purely on casual and temporary basis as 
and when required on “no work no pay” basis; that he (Shri Rambali Ahir) 
occasionally worked on casual and temporary basis for some time in 1954 
and 1966 and that the Opposite Party aid not discharge him. It was said 
that he was not available after he had last left Company’s work. 


1648 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 [Part 1 


The Opposite Party accordingly submitted that the complaint should 
be rejected. 


Decision 


Petitioner Shri Raghunath Prosad (P.W. 1) is a driver. He claimed 
to have joined service in the Opposite Party Compuny as a drive: m 
September 190১ and to have been discharged in August 1955. There is, 
however, no document or any other witness to support his case. The 
attendance register of the Opposite Party Company, Ext. C, on the con- 
trary shows thut P.W. 1 Shri Raghunath Prosad did not work in the 
Company during the period. 1.۴١۷. 1-Shri Raghunath Prosad admitted 
in his deposition that his name was not entered in the attendance register 
of the Opposite Party Company. In cross-examination }’.W. 1 said that 
he could not say whether in the wage-sheets in which the Company used 
to pay wages to the employees his name appeared. Exhibit D is the pay 
register in respect of monthly paid employees covering the period in which 
۲۰۷٢۷۰ ۱ claimed to have served. The said register, too, shows that he was 
never paid wages by the Company. The other wage registers, Exts. B and 
Bl, for payment of wages to the workers of the i are for the years 
1954 and 1955, Itkewise do not show payment by the Company to him. 
These therefore support Company’s case that P.W. 1 was not an employee 
of the Opposite Party Company. 


Though denied in examination-in-chief, Shri Raghunath Prosad had to 
adimit in cross-examination that Shri D. Sinha, Director of the Company, 
owned an old car. He further admitted that the said car was sold away 
2/°$ months before he was discharged and that the money order coupon 
shown to him was refused by him. LExhibit A is the said money order 
coupon. ا٢٢‎ was, however, sent by Shri D. Sinha to Shri Raghunath 
Prosad remitting his salary of Rs. 100 tor the month of July 195 less the 
money order commission of Rs, 1-14. It was stated therein that as hia car 
was sold ,ہد‎ services of Shri Raghunath Prosad were no longer required 
apd that as he was not taking his salary, though repeatedly asked to do so, 
it had to be sent by money order post less the money order commission. 
The said money order was sent long before the complaint under section : ۸ 
was filed. The allegations in the money order coupon that Shri Raghu- 
nath Prosad was in service under Shri J). Sinha and that he was being 
paid by him as revealed therein cannot be lightly brushed aside. From 
the evidence and circumstances, I believe the case of the Opposite Party 
Company that Shri Raghunath Prosad was in the employ of Shn 0). 
Sinha, Director of the Company, and not in the Opposite Party Company. 


No doubt the evidence disclosed that the petitioner Shri Raghunath 
Prosad did occasionally drive the van belonging to the Company but this 
fact cannot make him « employee of the Company. It appears that while 
holding employment under the Director, Shri D. Sinha, he did so casually 
on the contract basis with the tacit consent of his employer for earning 
extra money. Had Shri Raghunath Prosad been directly in the employ of 
the Company, his name would have been entered in the attendance register 
as well as in the wage register, and the money order would not have been 
sent by Shri D. Sinha. The allegation of Shri Raghunath ۲۶۱۸۵۹ that 
the Management became displeased with him as he joined the Union, as 
he was selected as witness of the Union in 0 case, 08 he demanded provi- 
dent fund and as he instituted a case for overtime, is afterthought and 
unreliable. The employment, it appears, was terminated as Shri D. Sinha 
had sold away his car in July 1955. Ramapati Dutta, it appears, ۸ not 


part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1649 


a 7777585855555277---7--্প 
Opposite Party’s driver but of Shri Bhattacharya, the Engineer of the 
Cofipany. Complaint of Shri Raghunath Prosad is accordingly held to 
he without any foundation. 


The other petitioner Shri Rambali Ahir did not appear before the 
Tribunal to support his complaint. P.W. 1 Shri Raghunath Prosad, who 
deposed on his behalf, had to admit that he met Shri Rambali Ahir for 
the last time 2/3 months ago when Shri Rambali Ahir disclosed that he 
would not come to the Tribunal as he was not quite well. It would thus. 
appear that Shri Rambali Ahir was not at all serious about his complaint. 
The evidence of D.W. 1, Dhirendra Chandra Dutta, on the contrary, 
reveala that Shri Rambali Ahir wag a temporary cooly who used to be 
employed only for a term of three months at a time and that when hie. 
last term for three months expired in June or July 1955, his employment 
ceased. His evidence further discloses that as Shri Rambali Ahir did not 
thereafter turn up no question of pag him did arise. As he was ৪, 
temporary workman appointed for a fixed term, it 1s obvious that his 
employment ceased automatically on expiry of the fixed term and thus 
section 33 was not attracted. A casual and temporary worker appointed 
for a given time ceases to be a workman after the period is run out (vide 
1954 L..A.C., 329). Thus in his case, too, there was no contravention of 
section 33 of the Act. 


The petition under section 38۸ must therefore fail. 


It is awarded accordingly. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
J. MAITRA, 
Judge, 


JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 
Judge, 


Third Industrial Tribunal. 
The 14th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. گی وم‎ Sn /11L-63 ا‎ Frente June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4045Dis./D/ 
111.-53/55, dated the 31st August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, Proprietors, Messrs. B. N. 
11188 & Co., Ltd., Norton Buildings, 1 & 2 Old Court House Corner, 
Gulcutta-1, and their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, Bansberia, Hooghly, regarding the matters specified in the 
کل‎ thereto was বাসি] for adjudication to the Second Industrial 
ribunal ; 


1650 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1966 [Panr J 


ই ES a TT Ne aN eee TES 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal, a complaint’ was filed before it against the said Company 
Asraf Ali, an employee of the said Company, alleging that the ৪510 
Company had discharged the said employee concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the 727 conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(rovernment ;: 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Tudustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is plensed hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industiral Disputea 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by Asraf Ali, an employee of Empire Bone Mills, 
represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, post office 
Bansberia, district Hooghly, against the Empire Bone Mills, post 
office Bansberia, district Hooghly (case No. 59 of 1956 under 
section 338), 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
58۲:۶٢۲ 0. 1১. MUKHERJEK, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 


Appearances: 


For the Company: Shri 8. Manna, Bar.-at-Law, with Mr. Ezra, Solicitor 
of Messrs. Victor Moses & Co., Solicitors. 


For the employee: Shri J. Pandey, Advocate. 


The Government of West Bengal, Jwbour Department, by order 
No, 4046Dis./D/111,-53/55, dated 31st August 1955, referred the original 
dispute existing between Empire Bone Mills, post office Bansberia, district 
Hooghly, und their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mulls 07 
Union, post office Bansberia, district Hooghly, regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award ot 
the Sribunal in respect of the proceedings was made on 17th March ا‎ 
und the award has since been published in the Calcutta Gazette. 


AWARD 


During the pendency of the original dispute, the present complaint 
purporting to be under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 41 
was filed before this Tribunal on 19th March 1956 by the employee Asraf 
Ali on the allegation that while the origina] dispute was pending before 
this Tribunal, the Opposite Party, Empire Bone Mills, in contravention of 
the provisions of section 33 of the Act, dismissed him summarily with effect 


[7৮1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 6 1651 


‘trom 27th February 1956 without taking permission from the Tribunal. 
the said order of dismissal has been characterised as unjustified and illegal. 
[815 alleged that the petitioner was victimised, simply because he happened 
to be a member 01 the Mmpire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union. So, reinstate- 
nent with back wages was claimed by the petitioner. 


The Opposite Party denied that there was any contravention by the 
Company of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It stated 
that on 24th February 1956 at about 11-10 a.m. while the Company’s 
Munager, Mr. 21. N. Ray, was going to his bungalow from the Mill’s 
(0009) a crowd of over 30 workmen bégan throwing stones and_ 10110100869 
and shoes at him, and that the present petitioner was one of those workmen. 
As a result of the above incident, the said Munager decided to dismiss the 
petitioner summarily, and by a letter, dated 27th February 1956, he 
unformed the petitioner accordingly. 


Admittedly the original dispute was pending before this Tribunal at 
the relevant time. Exhibit 1 is the letter that was issued by the Manager 
to the petitioner. It is dated 27th February 1956. This letter goes to 
show unmistakably that the petitioner was summarily dismissed from 27th 
February 1906. As the original dispute was pending before this Tribunal 
at the time, the Company had no right to dismiss the petitioner in this 
fushion, without the ily permission of the Tribunal. But obviously, 
no such permission of the Tribunal was taken before dismissing the _peti- 
tioner. So, there can be no manner of doubt that section 93 of the Act 
was contravened. My attention was drawn to the fact on behalf of the 
(ompany that in this letter (xt. 1), it is also stated at the end that 
pending decision from the Tribunal, the petitioner would remain suspended. 
ites on this, Mr. Manna, learned Counsel on behalf of the Company, 
hus argued before me that the petitioner was not actually dismissed, but 
he was kept under suspension 9ٍ8 permission from the Tribunal, and 
that this suspension was made by way of security measure. I must say 
straightway that 1 am unable to agree with Mr. Manna on this point, on 
a perusal of the letter itself (Ext. 1). The language used in that letter is 
that the petitioner is summarily dismissed from 27th February 1956. In 
the face of such clear and unequivocal expression, 1t cannot be held by any 
stretch of imagination that the petitioner was not actually dismissed, but 
was kept under suspension as a security measure pending decision from 
the Tribunal. In my view, the words ‘pending decision from the 
Tribunal you will remain suspended forthwith” as used in the aforesaid 
letter at the end, were put deliberately by the Manager with a view to avoid 
the application of section 33 of the Act. It is not capable of any other 
explanation or interpretation. The Tribunal, therefore, comes to the 
vonclusion that there was contravention of section 33 of the Act in the 
present case. So, the application under section 33A is competent. 


It is now well settled that where section 33 has been contravened, the 
Tribunal must enquire into the merita of the discharge or dismissal on a 
complaint being made under section 33A. As the complaint has to he 
investigated by the Tribunal, as if it were a dispute referred to or pending 
before it, the scope of investigation on the merits must exactly be the 
same where the subject-matter of the challenged discharge or dismissal had 
been the subject-mater of an independent reference under section 10 of 
the Act. The merita of the impugned dismissal are, therefore, to be 
considered by the Tribunal. This leads me necessarily to enter into the 
ا( ہہ‎ of the dismissal of the petitioner. The main charge as could be 
gathered from the letter of dismissal sent to the petitioner on 27th February 
1956 (vide Ext. 1), was that on 24th February 1956 at about 11-10 a.m. 
in front of the main gate of the mill, the petitioner along with other 


1662 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 [Parr 1 


workers threw brickbats at the Manager, and abused him in filthy languages. 
Such a charge against a worker, if established us true, is indeed ao serious 
misconduct, which justifies summary dismissal. But the question 38 
whether the aforesaid charge is true, and has been substantiated by the 
materials on record. The petitioner himself has denied the charge levelled 
ngainst him. He has deposed before this Tribunal that he did not, along 
with others, throw brickbats at the Manager on 24th February 1956 at 
about 11-10 a.m. in front of the main gate of the mill, nor did he abuse 
him in filthy languages. He has stated that at that time, he was not in 
front of the main gate, but he was inside the mill taking his meal in the 
canteen. Shri H. N. Ray, the Manager, Shri নি. K. Mukherjee, Assistant 
Maintenance Engineer, Shri Padam Bahadur, a darwan of the mills, and 
Persia, a coolie sardar of the mills, have been examined on behalf of the 
Opposite Party to prove the alleged incident. 0 P. W. 1 Shri 1. 
Ray, the Manager, has no doubt spoken about the incident. He has also 
stated that the present petitioner was involved in that incident, and took 
:؛١‎ leading part. He has further said that he saw the present petitioner 
amongst the persons who shouted slogans and abused him im filthy 
languages, and that he was also one of the workers who threw brickbats 
and shoes at him. O. P. W. 2 Shri*S. .کا‎ Mukherjee, Assistant Maintenance 
Engineer, has also corroborated the Manager. 0. 1১ W. 3, Shri Padam 
Bahadur, darwan and 0, 1১, W. 4, Persia, a 00019 sardar, have also 
leposed in the same tone. But the point 15 whether the evidence of all 
these witnesses can be accepted, in view of what has transpired from the 
documentary evidence. Shri H. N. Ray, Manager, has admitted in 0018 
cross-exumination that he sent a letter to the se Officer about this 
incident, and he has proved a copy of that letter, which is Ext. A. It 
is interesting to note that in this letter, which is addressed to the Officer. 
in-Charge, Magra police-station, by a person no other than the Manager 
himself, no mention is made of the name of the present petitioner. This 
letter was written on the very date of the incident, that is, on 24th 
February 1956 by the Manager himself. It has transpired from his 
evidence that the petitioner took a leading part in the incident. If that 
was 80, how could the Manager omit to mention his name in the letter 
written to the Officer-in-Charge, Magra police-station, regarding the 
incident. It cannot be believed readily that the name of the petitioner 
escaped through inadvertence. According to him, the petitioner took a 
leading part in the incident. So, 16 was not likely for the Manager that 
he should forget so easily to mention his name in the report written to the 
police. This is 9 circumstance which points to the direction that the 
present petitioner did not take part in the alleged incident, if it at all 
took place on 24th February 1906 at 11-10 a.m. in front of the mill gate. 
This also fits in with the version of the petitioner that on that date at 
11-10 a.m. he was taking his meal in the canteen inside the mill. There 
is another document. It is also the Company's document, which makes 
the whole version of the incident doubtful. This document is Ext. B, 
and it is the charge-sheet which was served on the petitioner on 24th 
February 1956, that is on the date of the alleged incident. In this charge- 
sheet, it is specifically stated that the petitioner was found out of his post 
at 10-30 a.m. and that he was still sitting idle at 12-30 p.m. instead of 
doing the job allotted to him. The incident, for which the petitioner was 
summarily dismissed, is alleged to have taken place at 11-10 a.m. on 241 

February 1956. But it is curious that nowhere in this charge-sheet 
served on the petitioner on 24th February 1956, a whisper was made regard- 
ing this incident, although in the said charge-sheet what the petitioner did 
til] 12-30 p.m. was recorded. Had the incident as alleged really taken 
place on that date, at 11-10 a.m. under the circumstances as alleged, it 


would have been surely mentioned in the charge-sheet given to the 


Pan? T] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1653 


ہے مچوعسجچوججج×سسححچپوًہہس٭چجدو۔ سڈ سو وعوسشس2شق-اششححجدشست[-تش-:-._.--ت...-۔ضغخڈچی — i a a a‏ 


wditioner, because he is suid to have taken ao leading part in_ that 
incident. So, after giving my careful consideration to the entire evidence, 
facts and 1701180888, i am of the view that the charge, for which the 
jetitioner has been summarily dismissed, has not been substantiated ٣ 
proved beyond reasonable doubt. 


In view of what hag transpired from the documents, the oral evidence 
08 adduced on behalf of the Opposite Party, cannot be believed. The 
witnesses, who have corroborated the Manager, are all employees of the 
vills. It is but natural that they should come to box at the bidding of 
ie Manageioent in order to oblige it. So, no reliance can be اس‎ 
رر‎ their oral testimony. The evidence of the Manager is also unworthy of 
7601) in the face of what has transpired from .ہداعا‎ A and B. There is 
withing in writing to show that on 22nd and 23rd February 1956 the 
petitioner was found sitting idle during the working period, or that any 
warning was given to him. The Manager has said, no doubt, that the 
petitioner was verbally warned for this in his presence by the Supervisors, 
M:. Josef and Shri Rishi Mitra. But none of those Supervisors has 
been examined in this case. JI wonder how was it possible for the Manage- 
ment to be present on every occasion, when such verbal warnings were 
given by the Supervisors. As regards the charge-sheet that was served 
on the petitioner on 24th February 1986, it appears that the petitioner 
guve some explanation. There is nothing to show what action was 
taken thereafter by the Management. It seems that no action was taken, 
011] the lapses of the petitioner, if any, were condoned. The language 
ot the reply to that charge-sheet might be considered to be objectionable, 
but the petitioner denies his signature in reply to the charge-sheet. So, 
it is doubtful, whether the language as used in that reply to the charge- 
sheet, was really used by him. At any rate, for the alleged objectionable 
hnguage in reply to the charge-sheet, the petitioner did not merit 
summary dismissal. The Tribunal, therefore, comes to the conclusion 
that the dismissal of the petitioner was wrongful and unjustified. It 
seems that the Mianagement was actuated by a spirit of victimisation. As 
the petitioner happened to be a member of the Empire Bone Mills 
Mazdoor Union, the Management wanted to get rid of him. The order 
uf dismissal of the petitioner cannot, therefore, be upheld. In my view, 
this is a fit case in which reinstatement should be ordered. 


Ii 18 ھ3‎ ordered that the petitioner be reinstated in his post. 
He shall report himself to the Management within 15 days from the 
date of publication of this award in the Calcutta Gazette He shall also 
get back wayes for the entire period from the date of his dismissal 011] 
reinstatement within the period as mentioned above. Be it further 
noted that the period of forced unemployment should not be regarded as 
break in his service for the purposes of benefits, to which he may be 
oo an employee of the Company. This is the award of the 
Tribunal. 


In the result, the application succeeds. 
Iictated and corrected by me. 


G. P, MUKHERJER, 
Judge. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, 
Second Industrial Trobunal. 


The 2156 June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D, 9. P. MUKITERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


1664 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 [Parr ] 


ORDER 


No. 2846Dizs. | ০ June 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No, 4668138. |۰ 
111,207 /55, dated the 24th September 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Khimjee Hunsraj, 166 Tower Chitpur Road, Calcutta, and their 
workmen represented by Federation of Mercantile Employees’ Union, 
23/A Netaji Subhas Road (top floor), Calcutta, regarding the matter, 
specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the 
Second Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Nar Bahadur, a work. 
man of the said Company, against the said Company, alleging that the said 
Company had punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudieated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(Government: 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 1s plensed 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto, 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33۸ of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunai) 
Act, 1950, filed by Nar Bahadur, an employee of Messrs.. Khimjes 
Hunsraj, 9 Hungerford Street, Calcutta, against the aforesaid Company 
carrying on business at 165 Lower Chitpore Road, Calcutta. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT ; 
Shri G. P. Mukherjee, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 


Appearances : 
For the employee: Shri Sunil Dhar, Advocate, 


For the Company: Shri 9.0. Sen, Advocate, and 
Shri 8. (0. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


The Government of West Bengal, Labour Dpeartment, by order 
No. 4669Dis./D/11]-207/55, dated 24th September 1955, referred the 
criginal dispute existing between Messrs. Khimjee Hunsraj, 165 Lower 
Chitpore Road, Calcutta, and their workmen represented hy the Federation 
of Mercantile Employees’ Union, 20/۸ Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-l, 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule to this Tribunal for adjudica- 
tion, The award of the Tribunal in respect of the proceeding was maie on 
سا‎ March 1956 and the award has since been published in the Calcutta 
razette. 


Pant 1] THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 1654(a) 


lS —————————————————————e سس سک‎ 
‪۱ ۵ 


During the pendency of the original “dispute, the present complaint 
purporting to-he under section 38A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
was filed before this Tribunal on 10th February 1956 by the employee, 
Shri Nar Bahadur, on the allegation that while the original dispute was 
pending before this Tribunal, the Opposite Party Messrs. Khimjee Hunsraj, 
in contravention of the provisions of section 33 of the Act, dismissed him 
without taking permission from the Tribunal. The said order of dismissal 
hos been characterised as unjustified and illegal. So, reinstatement with 
hack wages was claimed by the petitioner. 


The Opposite Party has admitted that the petitioner was employed as a 
Motor Car Driver under the Company, but he was mainly employed for the 
personal service of the partner of the firm. The Opposite Party has further 
admitted that the petitioner was dismissed during the pendency of the 
original dispute before this Tribunal. But it wanted to say that it was 
under the impression that the petitioner being regularly employed for 
dumextic purpose and for personal use of the partner of the firm at 20 Theatre 
Road, Calcutta, was not concerned in the original dispute. Regarding 
11871018901) the Opposite Party assertedethat the order of dismissal of the 
petitioner was justified and proper in the circumstances, inasmuch as he 
was found on 4th December 1955 attempting to open the steel almirah in 
the room occupied by one of the partners named Shri V. J. Suratya alias 
Muljee Babu, during his temporary absence from that room in the afternoon. 
He was charge-sheeted for this misconduct, and an enquiry was held in 
which the petitioner was present, and statements of witnesses were also 
secorded in his presence. As a result of this enquiry, the charge levelled 

ainst him was proved, and accordingly he was dismissed from service 

ith effect from 16th December 1955. 


Tt appears from the evidence that the petitioner was employed as a 
Motor Car Driver in Messrs. Khimjee Hunsraj and that his salary was paid 
hy that Company. So, there can be no manner of doubt that he was an 
employee of Messrs. Khimjee Hunsraj. The fact that he used to reside at 
the house of the partners at 20 Theatre Road, Calcutta, and was solely 
employed for domestic purpose and for personal use of the partners of the 
firm, did not matter much to his being called an employee of the firm— 
Messrs. Khimjee Hunsraj. Admittedly, he being a workman of Messrs. 
Khimjee Hunsraj, was dismissed during the pendency of the original dispute 
16109 this Tribunal. So, undoubtedly there was violation of section 89 of 
the Act. Thus the Tribunal feels no hesitation in holding that in this case 
section 33 has been contravened. Where section 33 has heen contravened, 
the Tribunal must enquire into the merits of the discharge or dismissal on 
a complaint being made under section 88۸ of the Act. Each such com- 
plaint has to he investigated by the Tribunal as if ‘it were a dispute referred 
fo or pending before 16/, The scope of the investigation on the merits 
must he exactly the same, where the subject-matter of the challenged 
discharge or dismissal had heen the subject matter of an independent 
reference under section 10 of the Act. The principles laid down in the 
Buckingham & Karnatie Mills Co. os. its workmen [1981 11.7. (ii), 314] 
would equally apply, and the Tribunals would not be entitled to substitute 
their own judgments for the judgments of the Management except in four 
enses, namely, (1) where there was want of bona fides on the part of the 
Management, (2) in the case of victimisation or unfair labour practice or 
violation of the principles of natural justice. (8) or where there was basic 
error of facts, and (4) or a perverse finding by the Management on the 
materials, which it had before it at the time of the enquiry. 


1654(b) THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 (Parr ] 


Bearing the above principles in mind, let me now proceed to investigate 
the merits of the petitioner’s dismissal. The charge oY allegation against 
the petitioner is that on 4th December 1956 “he went into the room of 
Shri V. J. Suraiya alias Muljee Babu at 20 Theatre Road during his 
temporary absence, and attempted to open the steel almirah situated therein 
with the key, which the said partner inadvertently 161, behind. Tt appears 
that the said partner made preliminary enquiry from the persons, who saw 
the applicant trying to open the almirah, and finding that a prima facie case 
had been made out, issued the charge-sheet to the petitioner. 4 copy of 
the said charge-sheet has been proved in thia case, and it is Ext. C, dated 
211) December 1955. It 1s clear from that charge-sheet that the petitioner 
was charged with attempting to commit theft from the residence of the 
partner Shri V. J. Suraiya at 20 Theatre Road, Calcutta, on 4th December 
1955 at about 4 p.m., and that this fact was detected by the cook, Shi; 
Bhirulal, who saw him trying to open the steel almirah with the bunch ‘of 
keys. The petitioner has admitted in his evidence that he received such 
charge-sheet. Extracts C(1) is the reply sent by the petitioner. It is dated 
6th December 1955. In this letter, he no doubt denied the allegation made 
against him. Thereafter an enquiry was held on 14th December 1955 into 
the charge at 3 p.m., and this enquiry was conducted in the office hy Shri 
V. J. Suraiya. The petitioner has admitted in his cross-examination that 
he got a letter informing him that an enquiry would be held on 14th Decem- 
her 1955, where he was required to be present with his witnesses. He has 
further admitted that the enquiry was duly held on 14th December 1956 in 
the office at 3 p.m. and in that enquiry, witnesses were examined, and their 
statements recorded. He has also said that his statement too was taken down. 
Exhibit A is the proceedings of the said enquiry. So, it cannot be said 
that there was any violation of the principles of natural justice. The 
petitioner was asked to give his explanation, and an enquiry was held fn 
his presence. The statements of witnesses recorded at the time of enquiry 
have also been produced before this Tribunal. Shri V. J. Suraiya and Shri 
Bhirulal, the cook, who found the petitioner attempting to open the atecl 
olmirah with the key inside the room of Shri Suraiya, have deposed before 
this Tribunal. Their evidence cannot be lightly brushed aside or dis- 
helieved. There is no reason as to why they would depose falsely. No 
motive could be suggested or proved as to why this petitioner could be 
implicated falsely. So, the Tribunal comes to the conclusion that the 
Management in dismissing the petitioner had acted bona fide. The finding 
of the Management on the materials, which it had before it at the time of 
enquiry, cannot be said to be perverse. Nor the matter can he brought 
within the second or third exception in Buckingham & Karnatic Mills’ ০৯৭6. 
So, the order of dismissal of the petitioner was perfectly justified, and the 
Management could take such a possible view on the materials before it. 
It is evident that the petitioner concerned ia afflicted with strong criminal 
propensity. He had attempted to open the steel almirah, and if he was not 
discovered in the act at the psychological moment hy the cook, he would 
have succeeded in helping himself to the valuable contents, if any. It is 
indeed unsafe to employ a man, who could do such a daring act. Therefore, 


the Management was perfectly justified in getting rid of him. It has 
transpired from the evidence that an information was lodged at the thana 
regarding the incident. This document has not been called for in this case. 
Naturally, the learned lawyer for the petitioner has commented much on 
this fact. But I may say straightway that nothing turns on the fact that 
the information lodged at the thana was not called for. The incident has 
been proved to demonstration by the materials already on the record. 


THE 041৮ GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 12, 1956 16540)‏ پا Par?‏ 
سس سے .ب٦٦۹٦‏ ک‫ سے گے لے _ے سے ag‏ 


The result.is thet the petitroner is not entitled to get any relief. The 
application 1f’accordingly rejected. 


Nictated ‘and chrrewed by me. 
G. 1১. MUKTNERJIEE. 
(1. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, 
Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 1811 June 1966. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


০০০০ ১১১১ 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at, Wgst Hengal Government Press, Alipore on the 12th July 1956. 


Registered No. C207 


Galrutta 


No. 84301) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


রকি 5 বত 
a. قح" عیجوسے پت ھا‎ 


— 
[০ 


শাসিত Some مس‎ 


THURSDAY JULY 12, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 


Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 12152L.A.—l2th July 1950.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
purposes of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/66- 
Judt.(J), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Lome 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land ig likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being & purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
Township in connection with the Durgapur Steel 
Project in the village of Benachiti, jurisdiction list 
No. 67, thana Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, district 
Burdwan, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
in Block 1131? comprising cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 7 to 34, 39 to 72, 74 to 147, 149 to 159, 256 
to 298, 701, 703 to 706, 720, 721, 731, 735, 741, 
749 and 740 und parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 2 to 4, 6, 30, 3১, 73, 148, 162 to 164, 255, 
259, 702 and 726, and measuring, more or lesa, 
(42,31 acres, is likely to be needed for the afore- 
said publig purpose at the public expense within 
the aforesaid village of Benachiti. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
ol section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 


read with the auid notification to all whom it mav 
concern. : 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

urdwan, as well us in that of the Administrator, 
Durgupur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise 01 the powers conferred by the suid 
section read with the said notification the Gover- 
hor is pleased to authorise the officers for the’ time 
eng engaged in the undertaking, with their 
Servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitied 
by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
and as is not waste or arable who has any objec- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may, within thirty 
1978 utter the dute on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Voliector of Burdwan. | 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the Governor is pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shall not. apply to the waste or arable portions 
of the land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 12164L.A.—12th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
iment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
purposes of the Union have been entrusted to the 
Stute Government by notification No. 20/1 /55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1969) issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of I{ome 
Affairs under clause (1) o1 article 258 ot the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
lund مت‎ likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, framely, for the 
Township in connection with کی سنا‎ Stee! 
Project in the village of Benachiti, jurisdiction 
115৮ No, 67, thana Paridpur, pargana Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that ١ piece 
of land in Block ‘*F’’ comprising cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 5, 36, 37, 165 to 170, 177 to 244, 260 
ty 263, 324 to 337, 363 to 388, 640 to 642, G44 
to 647, 650, 698, 722 to 728, 727 to 730, 734, 
736, 738, 742 to 744 and 74ti and parts of cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 2 to 4, 6, 35, 38, 73, 148, 162 to 
164, 171, 174, 255, 259, $61, 384, 385, 572, 637, 
(38, 639, 643, 648, 649, 652, 697, 702, 726 and 
747, and measuring, more or less, 222.59 ucres 
is likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense within the afore- 
said village of Benachiti. 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
reud with the said notification to all whom it muy 


rleoncern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
ufice of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that ot the Administrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section read with the said notification the Gover- 
nor is pleased to authorise the officers for the time 
being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 

Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable who has خلہ ےجو‎ ' 
tion to the acquisition thereof. ہے‎ 


1656 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE FXTRAORDINARY, JULY 12, 1956 


[Parr ] 


ےلہپ یبىیتیتیتیىی‌ژ پٹتٹژژ_تٹ سس SooaoaoaoaoaoaEoEoaooeoEIEaEaEaaaa»BRh99»”999AyE——EEE—E—>—-yyEyyEyEyyEyyyyyyeEeEeES6Qq0“"hleESSES‏ 


اب 


days after the date on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in the 
loculity, file an objection in writing ‘before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, as 
amended by Act, XX XVIII of 1923 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the (tovernor ts pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shall not apply to the waste or arable portions 
ot the land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 12156]..A.—12th July 1996.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894° (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India مد‎ the Ministry of Ilome 
Affairs under clause (1) 91 article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 

And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Unicn, namely, for the 
Township in connection with the Durgapur Steel 
Project in the village of Bhiringi, jurisdictivn list 
No. 68, thana Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, district 
Burdwan, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
in Block ‘‘D’’ comprising cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 1434 to 1440, 1442 to 1466, 1474, 1477 to 
1483, 1489 to 1492, 1494 two 1497, 2109 and 2111 
to 2116 and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 1433, 1441, 1467, 1468, 1470 to 1473, 1475, 
1476, 1484, 1485, 1488, 1499, 1498 to 1500, 2108 
and 2110, and measuring, more or less, 102.67 
ucres, is likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village of Bhiringi. 

This notificafion is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification to all whom it may 
concern. ۳ 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
00108 of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 

In exercise oi the powers conferred by the said 
section read with the ghid notification the Gover- 
nor is pleased to authorise the officers for the time 
being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 


Any person interested in su much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable who has any objec- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may, within thirty 
days atter the date on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers cunterred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII 01 1923 und read witb 
the aforesaid notification the Governor is pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shull not apply to the waste or arable portions 
of the land in this case. 


DECLARATION 

Burdwan.—No,. 12160L.A.—]2th July 19560, 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in rejation to the acquisition of land tor the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/66- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 


Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
٠۶ India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose being a purpose ot 
the Union, namely, for the provision of additional 
yard facilities at the Hirapur exchange yard ut 
mile 135 Barakar Extension of Eastern Railway, 
in the villages of Narasamuda and Santa, jurisdic- 
tion list Nos. 5 and 28, respectively, thana Asansol, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby declared that pieces 
of land as described below, and altogether 
measuring, more or less, 27.10 acres, are needed 
for the aforesaid public purpose at the public 
expense within the aforesaid villages of Narasa- 
muda and Santa: 

Block A 


A piece of land starting from chainage 29.43 
eet Santa siding in mauza Narasamuda and 
running generally towards south and 
attuched to the east old boundary line of 
Santa siding and terminating at chainage 
30.90 feet Santa siding in the same mauza 
and 147 feet in length and varying in width 
from 0 foot to 65 feet, another piece of land 
starting from chainage 30.90 feet of the 
same siding and running generally towards 
the same direction attached to the east old 
boundary line of the Santa siding in mauza 
Narasamuda and terminating at 35.64 teet 
Santa siding in the same mauza and being 
474 feet in length and varying in width from 
() foot to 250 feet, and another piece of land 
starting from chainage 35.64 feet Santa 
siding in mauza Narasamuda and running 
generally towards the south and attached to 
the east old boundary line of the Hirapur 
siding and passing through the mauzus 
Narasamuda and Santa and terminating st 
chainage 37.00 MHirapur siding tn mauza 
Santa and being 36.80 feet in A ont and 
varying in width from 0 toot to 090 feet 


Block B 


A piece of land starting from chainage 18.10 
Hirapur siding in mauza Narastmuda.and 
running generally towards south, attathed 
to the west old boundary line of Ujrapur 
siding and terminating at chaimage 20.40 
Hlirapur siding in the same mauza and being 
230 feet in length and varying in width trom 
0 foot to 90 feet, and another piece of land 
sturting from chainage 20.40 feet Hirapur 
siding and running generally towame 4he 
same direction in mauza Narasamuda and 
attached to the west old boundary. line of 
Napuria siding and passing through the 
mauzas Narasamuda and Santa and _ termi- 
nating at chainage 5.00 Napuria siding in 
mauza Santa and being 720 feet ‘in length 
and varying in width from 0 foot to 180 feet. 


Biock C 


A piece of land starting from chuingye ۵ 
feet Hirapur siding in mauza Santa and 
running generally towards south and attach- 
ed to the west old boundary line of Hirapur 
siding and terminating at chainuge 39.40 
feet of the said siding in the same mauza 
and being 340 feet in length and varying 
in width from 250 feet to 320 feet. 

This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 
of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern. 

A سار‎ of the land may be inspected in the office 
ot the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Divisional Superintendent, 
Eastern Railway, Asansol. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengul. 


“tikhed by the Buperintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
Government Press, Alipore on the 12th July 1956. 


“Na. 344(1)"‏ و 


7 7: 
[Ss 
_ ey 


d a, 
7 4 a ur a : 
٦ ie میں‎ ِ 
کہ‎ ॥ 7 t 17. i ۱ 0 i 
| 
1 ہچ‎ 7 ry 
€ দির 
| 2 ۱ aa 


ہے » 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, JULY 13, 1956 


BART J-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES. 


Food and Supplies 


ORDER 


No. T140F.S.—L3th July 1956-1868 exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the 15998116151 Commodities Act, 
1958 (X of 1955), read with clause (c) of sub- 
section (2) of the said section and the order 
No. 18C1(4)/55/I, dated the 10th June 1956, of 
the Government of India in the Ministry. of 
Production notified at pages 1068 and 1069 of 
the Gazette of India, dated the 18th June 1950, 
Part II, section 3, and in partial modification 01 


1657 


1688 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Parr] 
JULY 18, 1958. 


a Va 
the Government of West Bengal order No. 1۰ 
I'.8., dated the 7th April 1906, the Governor is 
pleased te direct thai with effect from the date 
of মা of this order in the Calcutta Gazette 
the price at which Soft Coke may be sold ھا‎ 
the town ৮01 Calcutta aa defined in section 3 01 
the Caleutta Police Act, 1866, and the suburhs 
of Calcutta as defined by notification under 
section 1 of the Calcutta Suburban Police Act, 
1866, shall not exceed in the case pf sale ex- 
Railway Depot Rs. 1-9 per muund exclusive of 
sales tax, and in any other case Ka, 1-14-9 per 
muund exclusive of sales tax, 


By order of the Governor, 
8. K. GUPTA, 
Jt. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


১১0‏ مھ 
Printed and published by the Superintendent Govt. Ptg., West Bengal,‏ 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 13th July 1066‏ 


istered No. 207 


2 
1 

I 
٦ 


00,008 


1 7 ےڈ ے٦‏ 
1 سے کے اد 7 

: 3 
] 

1 mye 
০৮, 

রি 5 


=. 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


০ প্র ھھسسععہ‎ 408,০৮৮ eee পনর oro llamas দি کا‎ elie ہے‎ লিসা পিরিতের nes er, Si সু হস ہے‎ a eae 
ninety, SA ee SIS I SS ররর এর ৫০০১৮ ےد‎ | ce, hei ent ete [রা iim: 


FREDAY JULY 13, 1956 


FART I-O:ders’ and Notifications by the Governor of Weer 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.—-No. 12364).A.—lLéth July 1956.—In 
exercise Of the powers conferred by section ~— 
of the Vinnd Acquisition Act, I of 1894, the 
Governor * is pleased ہا‎ withdraw from the 
acquisilidh of the entire prea of .91 of an acre of 
1010, cov red by declaration No. 164821.4..১ dated 
the 26th August 1965, published at page 1415, 
Part 1 01 the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, of 
the 27th, idem, and required by the Damodar 


LAFQ 


1600 THE CALCUITA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Pag 1 
JULY 13, 1956 


ae oe, 


Vylley Corporation for the excavation of 
Distributury L6drom chainage م41‎ chamage 119.6, 


0 connection with the Damodar Flood (Control 
Project imthe district of Burdwan. 


By order of the (tovernor, 
S. N. MITRA, 


Special Officer and Dy. Secy. ta the 
Govt. of West Beagal “ex 01105), 


5522 
Printed and published by the Superintendent. Govt Pie. Weat Bengal 
at West Bengal Govt. Preas, Alipore, on the 18th July 1950, 


Registered No. C207 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1956. 


PART fA4—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory 
Notifications of the Election Commission, India, and other Election 
Notifications published for general information. Orders and 
Netifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette 
of dndia” are only republished. 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


Ministry of Home Affairs 


NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi-2, the 12th June 1956. 


No. 20/8/56Pub.1.—In pursuance of the Explanation to section 25 af. 
the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (XXVI of 1881), the Cent:al Goverp-- 
ment hereby declares that Monday, the 28rd day of July 1956, shall be 
a public holiday throughout India in commemoration of the centennial anni- 
versary of the [দশ of Shri Bal Gangadhar Tilak. 


FATEH SINGH, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of India. 


ہے ےس تبیہ سے 
and চির by the Superintendent, Government Printi‏ ۲۶۱۱۱ 


ng. West Bengal, 
,at West Bongal Government Press, Alipore on the 14th July 


1956. 
1661 


wr | 
Listered No. C207 Py / No. 347(1) 


Ai 
ئٰ‎ ۲ 
7, 


4 
The 
2 


ae 
! 


Salrutta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 16, 1956 
হিল্লা 
LRT 1~Orders and Notifications by the 00561000৮01 Wes 
Bengal, the sligh Court, Government Treasury, ت6‎ 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST SENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE, 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.—No, 124761,.A.—l4th July 1966.— 
Whereas # appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 380A and 381A of Burdwan-Belmuri Section 
132 k. V. Pransmission Line in connection with 
the promotion and operation of schemes for the 
generation, transmission and distribution of elec- 
tric energy in the village of Durgabati, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 90, thana Burdwan, district 
Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces of land 
comprising parts of codastral survey plot Nos. 307 


1663 


1664 THE CALCUTTA GAZETT: EXTRAURDINARY, [Part 
JULY 16, 1956 


11101 388, and allogether measuring, more or lesy 
0412 of an aere are likely to be needed tor th 
aforesaid public purpose at the expense of  t] 
Damodar Valley Corporation, within the aforesat 
village of Durgabati. 


This notification is made, under the provisions of 
section 4 of Act ۱ of 1894, to all whom it may con ' 
cern. 


A plan of the land may be mspected im the 
atfice of the Special Land Acquisition Collector. 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
uforesaid section the (105811)01 fs pleased to . 
wuthorise the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and work- 
men, to enter upon and survey the laud and do 
all other acts required or permitted by that sec- 
{ioa. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, ۱ of 1894, as, 
amended by Act YXXVITT of 1923, the Covernor 
is pleared to direct that the provisions of section 
5۸ of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


By order of the (rovernoar, 
1. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Gort. of West Benga!. 


eee 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Pty, ۵ 
Bengal, at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 16th July 6 


No. 348(1) 


Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 16, 1956 


eee‏ ہد ene‏ سج 
— سے 


Mu  قح‎ 


I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West‏ ا 
Rengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc.‏ 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL‏ 
HOME DEPARTMENT‏ 
Political‏ 
RESOLUTION No. 54782 {110-3 /56‏ 
Calcutta, the 1011 July 1956.‏ 


Read resolution No. 3662P., dated-the 18th May 
1956, appointing 0 Committee to examine the 
question of cow slaughter in all its aspects, 
with particular reference to ihe special con- 
ditions prevailing in tbe State. 


Resolved that the said Committee be named us 
The Cow Preservation Conumittee’’, 


1665 


1666 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [ Paz: 
JULY 16, 1956. 


nc racemes Srna 


Orverep that the above resolution be published 
in the Calcutta Gazette and copies thereot be 
circulated to the Chairman and other members of 
the Committee for information. 

S. N. RAY, 


Chief Secy, to the Govt. of West Bengal 


Printed and publshed by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West eed 


at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 16th July 19656 


Rezistered No. C207 


0)0 


No. 34901) 


* Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 16, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTICES 


Murshidabad.—No. 12562L.A.(?.W.).—16th 
July 1966.—Whereas 4.73 acres, more or less, of 
land situate in or near the villages of Salar and 
Harinya, described below, have been requisitioned 
under sub-section (1) of section 93 of the West 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948, by the person authorised under the 
said section 301), for the Bar سو‎ of providing 
favilities for irrigation and drainage, namely, for 
excavatwn of J)istributary No. 23 Ex, Kopai 
outh Main Canal in connection with Mayurakshi 
Reservoit Project ; 


Now, therefore, nvtice ig hereby given that in 
pursugges of section 4 of the said Act, the 
Govertior acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as oforesaid, 


This notice is given under the provisions of sub- 
section (la) af section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requigitign and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern, 


Ye وك‎ ۱ 
A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
or the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Mauza Salar, jurisdiction list No. 102, police- 
station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—6515, 5517, 
6618, 5635, 5636, 6641, 5642 and 6644. 


Mauza Harinya, jurisdiction list No. 101, police- 
station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—286 and 328. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—285, 288, 281), 

291, 292, 289, 327, 320, 333, 884) * 896. 
338, 344, 345, 348, 349, 860, 361, 362, 
, 861, 862, 394, 990, 397, 399, 
400, 402, 403, 404, 406, 407, 408, 413, 
417, 418, 424 425, 429, 480, 431, 48: 
434, 440, 441, 442, 443, 468 and 502. 


Burdwan.—No. 126641..A.(P.W.).—l6th July 
1956.—Whereas 15.615 acres, more or less, of 
land situated in or near the villages of Kandra 
and three others described below have been 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of 
the West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisi- 
tion) Act, 1948, by the person authorised under 
the said section 3(1) for the purpose of providing 
facilities for irrigation and drainage, namely, tor 
construction of Distributary No. 16 Ex. Kopui 
South Main Canal in connection with Mayurakshi 
Reservoir Froject; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of thg said Act, the Governor 
acquires such land being required for a public 
purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provision of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 14۹ 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may con- 
cern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Ofticer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Mauza Kandra, jurisdiction list No. 36, police- 
station Ketugram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—998, 1000, 1003, 
1004, 1023, 1025, 1026, 1027, 1054, 1086, L088, 
1096, 1097, 1100, 1107, 1115, 1116, 1117)" 118, 
1124, 1125, 1126, 1127, 1680, 1681, 1685, 
1686, 1687, 1693, 1694, 1698, 1699, 1700, 1701, 
1702, 1705, 1729, 1731, 2161, 2206, 2207, 2208, 
220১, 2218, 2232, 2238, 2239, 2241, 2243, 2244, 
224), 2249, 2250, 2252, 2263, 2254, 2205, 2256, 
2272, 2278, 2279, 2280, 2910 and 8741. 


Mauza Amguria, jurisdiction list No. 30, police- 
station Ketugram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plot in full—7784. 


. Cadastral survey plots in part—7749, 9 
1755, 7160, 7761, 1777, ۵8 17160, 7781, 7783, 
7785, 7788, 7790 and 7799. 


1667 


1668 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 16, 1956 


{Part ] 


৯২ 


Mauza Sripur, jurisdiction list No. 35, police- 
piation Ketugram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1138, 1139, 1140, 
1141, 1142, 1148, 1144, 1268, 1269, 1270, 1271, 
1296, 1805, 1306, 13807, 1809, 1311, 1318, 1814, 
1315, 1316, 1818, 1319, 1416, 1446, 1447, 1449 and 
2327, 

Mauza Ujalpur, jurisdiction list No. 31, police- 
station Ketugram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plot in part—1367. 
Burdwan.—No. 12566L.4.(P.W.).—J6th July 


1956.—Whereas 7.15 acres, more or less, of land 
situate in or near the village of Baharan described 
below have been requisitioned under sub-section 
(1) of section 3 of the West Bengal Land (Requi- 
sition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the person 
authorised under the said section 3(1) for the pur- 
pose of providing facilities for irrigation and 
drainage, namely, for excavation of Distributary 
No. 23 Ex. Kopai South Main Canal in connection 
with Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gover- 
nor acquires such land being required for a public 
purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land: 
"0" and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 

engal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Birbhum. 


Description of the land 
Mauza Baharan, jurisdiction list No. 98, police- 
station Ketugram, district Burdwan. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—434 and 623. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—321, 322, 323, 
324, 333, 354, 336, 337, 888, 343, 344, 347, 348, 
871, 412, 413, 414, 415, 416, 428, 429, 433, 435, 


510, 512, 614, 515, 519, 520, 521, 522, 560, 661, 
564, 567, 568, 570, 571, 612, 615, 616, 618, oy 
622, 624, 661, 662, 663, 664, 9051, 9097, 91 

9101 and 9102, 


By order of the Governor, 
P, M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printad and published by the Superintendent, Government ee West Bengal, 
7 


at West Bengal Government Press, 


Alipore on the 16th 1056. 


No. 35018) 


(bazrtte 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


ہے << = 
مو وسسمہہدہے۔ আজ‏ 


TUESDAY, JULY 17, 1956 


nae 


BART I-—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 
Education 
NOTIFICATION 

No. 7587 Edn. /8B-39/56.—17th July 1956.— 

pursuance wf — sub-sections (4) and (3) 
wection 36 of the West Bengal Secondary 
dication Aci, 1950 (West Bengal Act 
“XXV11 of 1950), the (Governor is _ pleased 
hereby to sanction and publish in the Cal- 
cutta Gazette, the following Regulations which 
have been made in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (6) of section 4 of the Weat 
Bengal Secondary Education (Temporary Provi- 
sions) Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act XXAIT of 1954), 
دم‎ with clauses (d) (5) and (A) of sub-section 
W@W), and clause (6) of sub-section (3) of section 36 
of the West Bengal Secondary Education § Aet, 
1950, by the Administrator, namely :— 


Regulations providing for the holding and con- 
trolling of a Compartmental School Final 
Examination to the School Final Examination 
ہ٤‎ the Board of Secondary Education, West 
Bengal, held in March 1956 and the prescrip- 
tion of fees payable and conditions to be ful- 
filled by candidates for presenting themselves 
for such Compartmental School Final 
Examination, 


۱ In these Regulations, unless there is uany- 
thing repugnant in the subject or context— 


“The ‘‘Board’’ means the Board of Secondary 
Education, established under the West Bengal 


1669 


1670 THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE EATRAORDINARY, ([Paurtr] 
JULY 17, 1056. 


সপ... 


Secondary Education Act, 1950 (West Bengal Act 
XXXVII of 1950). 


2. The Board may, at ils d#seretion, hold صس‎ 
Compartmental School Final Examination four the 
candidates who were unsuccessful at the S@hool 
Final Kxamination held in March 1966. 


3. The Compartmental School Final h:xamina- 
tion shall be held at such places and on such date 
ভরাট and during such hours as the Board may 

ecide. 


کت 

4. A candidate who at the School Final E¥ami- 
nation of the Board held in March 1956 had 00 
in only one of the compulsory subjects, but had 
obtained at least the minimum aggregate marhs 
which are required to be obtained for passing the 
examination, that is to say, 288 marks in the com- 
pulsory anbjects including the one in which the 
candidate had so failed, may, if the cundidate so 
elects, be permitted to appear on payment of ; 
fee of Rs. 10 at the Compartmental School Find 
ixamination which may be held under Régulation 
2, only in the subject in which the candidate had 
so failed : 


Provided that if in this Compartmental chi 
Final Examination the candidate obtai pa 
marks in the subject in which the candidate ha 
so failed the candidate shall be declared to have 
assed the School Final Examination but shall not 
placed in any division: 


Provided further that if in this Compartmental 
School Final Examination the candidate fails to 
pass in the subject in which he or she appeared, 
the candidate shall be required to take, in whole 
uny later examination for which he or sh2 may 
be eligible. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. M. SEN, 
Secy. to the Gort. of West Be&Ryal. 


উট 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal 
at Weat Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 17th July 1956. 


Registered No, C207 


(11111 


No. 35101) 


Extraordinary 


ae 1 whe emp ০০০০০ 


Published by Authority 


‘TUESDAY JULY 17, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


EPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


DECLARATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 12620L.A.—l7th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central ))0 1 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the State 
Government by notification No. 20/1/55Judl.(1), 
dated the 14th May 1905) issued by the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs 
under clause (1) of article 258 of the Constitution 
of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for the Township in connec- 
tion with the Durgapur Steel Project in the vil- 
lage of Bhiringi, jurisdiction list No. 68, thana 
Faridpur, pargaua Shergarh, district Burdwan, 11 
ia hereby declared that some pieces of land in 
Block “D” comprising cadastra] survey plot 


Nos. 1434 to 1440, 1442 to 1466, 1474, 1477 to 
1483, 1489 to 1492, 1494 to 1497, 2109 and 1 
to 2116 and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 1433, 1441, 1467, 1468, 1470, 1471, 1473, 
1475, 1476, 1484, 1485, 1488, 1498 to 1500- and 
2110 and measuring, more or lesa, 100.20 acres, 
are needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
ora expense within the aforegpid vilfige of 
hiring!. 


This declaration is made, under the providip 
uf section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, ঃ 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, گیا‎ 


whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in Me office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administratgy, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No,. 12622L.A.—l7th July 1956,— 
Whereas the functions of the Central (overn- 
ment under the and Acquisition Act, 198 (5 of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land 7 
{he purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/5b- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 


101] 


1672 - THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 17, 1956 


[Parr I 


Se 7 ۱ 


Government of” India in the দা of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied thats 
land ig needed for a public ‘purpose, being a 
pyrpose of the Union, namely, for the Townshif? 
in connection with the Durgapur Steel Project 
in the village of Benachiti, jurisdiction list 
No. 67, thgma Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, dis- 
trict Burdwan, it is hereby declured that some 
pieces,of land in Block “I” comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 96, 165 to 170, 177 to 243, 
245 to 269) 408, 325 to 337, 363 to 383, 640 
to 642, 644 to 647, 650, 698, 723, 725, 727 to 
729 #736, 188, 742 to 744 and 746 and parta of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 2 to 4, 6, 35, 38, 
148, 163, 164, 171, 174, 269, 361, 384, 386, 
572, 638, 639, 643, 648, 649, 652, 697, 702, T26 
and 747, and measuring, more or less, 209.66 
acres, are needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
at the public expense within the aforesaid village 
of Benachiti. 


This ই is made, under the provisions 
of secti of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 7 , Yead with the said notification, to 
al-whom it’ may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 


office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, ag well as in that of the Administrator, 


Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, district 
Burdwap: 
Qurdwan.—Mo. 126241.A.—l7th July 1956. 


be Whereas the functions of the Central 
@oyernment under the Land Acquisition Act, 
مھ‎ )1 of 1894), in relation to the acquisition of 


land for the purposes of the Union have been 
entrusted to thé State Government by  notifica- 
tion No. 20/1/5dJud).(I), dated the 14th May 
1955, issued by the Governmentw»of India in the 
Ministry of ITome Affairs under clause (1) of 
article 258 of the Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for the Township in connection 
with the Durgapur Steel Project in the village 
of Benachiti, jurisdiction list No. 67, thana 
Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, 
it is hereby declared that some pieces of lund in 
Block “B’’ comprising cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 7, 8, 10, 11, 19 to 38, 39 to 58, 60 to 71, 
74 to 89, 85 to 91, 95 to 101, 103 to 106, 110, 
112, 116 to 147, 149, 150, 152, 154, 257, 258, 
101, 706, 721, 791) 735, 741 and 749 and parts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 2 to 4, 6, 35, 38, 
148, 163, 164, 259, 702 and 726, and measuring, 
more or less, 626.84 acres are needed for the 
aforesaid publit purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesaid village of Benachiti. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acguisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notificatiogg to 
all whom ih may concern. 


A plan of the land may he inspected in the 
office of the Special Tand Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


(এগার তত্র 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 17th July 1956, 


Registered No. C207. 


02 


No. 352)1( 


wana aa 
Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, JULY 17, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 12638L.A.—17th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 

ses of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
tate Government by notification No. 20/1/65- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land ig likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
Durgapur Steel Project, in the village of 
Jagurband, jurisdiction list No, 62, thana 
Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it 
is hereby notified that a piece of land in Block 
“L’’ comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 9 to 
12, 18 to 24, 130, 199, 134, 187 to 160 
154 to 166, 387, 341, 344 and 3456 and 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. ہت‎ 6, 8, 13 
to 16, 26 to 27, 34, 124, 127, 129, 131, 
132, 135, 136, 161 to 153, 167 to 169, 
186, 187, 189, 190, 194, 195, 336, 339, ৪840, 
342, 343, 346 to 350 and 426) and measur- 
Ing, more or less, 382.67 acres, is likely to be 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
00 expense within the aforesaid village of 
agurband. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Tand Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
8٥و‎ well os in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, read with the said notification, the 
Governor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 


time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and surve 
the land and do all other acts required or permit 
by that section. » % 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable, who“has any 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 
of the টার হি of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by ৪৪০- 
tion 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894 
as amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, and read 
with the aforesaid notification, the vernor 18 
pleased to direct that the provisions of section 5A 
of the Act shall not apply to the waste or arable 
portions of the land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 12640L.A.—l7th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union, have been entrusted 
to the State Government by notification 
No. 20/1/55Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, 
issued by the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Hfome Affairs under clause (1) of article 268 
of the Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being & purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
ier ae Steel Project, in the village of Gopal- 
math, jurisdiction list No. 654, thana 0704১], 
pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it ia hereby 
notified that a piece of land in Block ‘H”’ 
comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 869, 870, 
959 and 1001 to 1003 and parts of cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 863 to 868, 960 to 962, 
986 to 991, 997 to 1000, 1004 to 1006, 
1018, 1014, 1021 and 1025, and measuring 
more or less, 11.26 acres, is likely to be needed 
for the aforesaid public purpose at the public 
expense within the বদন lage of Gopalmath. 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Tand Acquisition Act, 1894, 


read with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern. 


1673 


1674 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 17, 1956 


[Pane I 


সু 


لی 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, read with the said notification, the 
Gtovernor is pleased to authorise the officers for 
the time being engaged in the undertaking, with 
their servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the land and do all other acts required or 
permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable, who has any 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 


Printed and published by the Superin 


of the substance of this notificaion is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894 
as amended by Act XXXVIIT of 1923, and read 
with the aforesaid notification, the Governor 1s 
pleased to direct that the provisions of section 5A 
of the Act shall not apply to the waste or arable 
portions of the land in this case. 


By order of the Governor, 
P, M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


ent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 


at West Hengal Government Press, Alipore, on the 17th July 1956. 


Byistered Noa. C207 


Qalriartta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, JULY 18, 1956 


ART {—Orders and Notifications by the Governor oc! Went 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
DECLARATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 12698L.A.—18th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894+},, in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been’ entrusted 
٦ں‎ the State Government by notification No. 20/ 
1/55J udl.(1), dated the 14th May 1956, issued by 
the Government of India in the ۸8181 of 
Home Affairs under clause (1) of article 208 of 
the Constitution of India: 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that 
land is ueeded for » public purpose, being a 
purpose of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur 
Steel Project in the village of Jagurband, juris- 
diction het No. 62, thuna Faridpur, pargana Sher- 
garh, district Burdwan, it is hereby declared 
hat pieces of Jand in Block “L’’ comprising 
vadastral survey plot Nos. 9 to 12, 18 to 21, 
134, 139, 155 to 166, 337, 344, 345 and parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 5, 13 to 16, 25 to 27, 
$4, 124, 127, 135, 152, 153, 167 to 169, 186, 
187. 189, 190, 194, 336, 339, 340, 4343, 346 to 
390 and 4245 and altogether measuring, more or 
less, 22.78 acres, are needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village of Jagurband. 


16748 


56749 4617 CALCUTTA GAZETIE EXTRAORDINARY, (Parrg 
JULY 18, 6 
This declaration is made, ander the previsions 
of section € of the Laud Aequisition Act, 1 
(l of 1894), read with the said notification, to 71] 
whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be imspected 1n_ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the 48১61100171) 18601, 
Durgapur Stecl Eroject, Durgapur, Burdwan, 


Burdwan.—No. 12700L.A.—I8th July 1956. 
Whereas the functions of the Central CGovern- 
ment under the Lund Acquisition Act, 1894 (T of 
1894+), in relation to the aequisition of land — for 
the purposes of the Union ar been entrusted 
10 the State Government by notificution No, 20; 
1/657udl.d7), dated the 14th May 1955, isaued 
by the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Hlome Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor مر‎ satisfied that 
land is needed’ for a public purpose, being a 
purpose of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur 
Steel Project in the village of Gopalmath, juris- 
diction list No. 54, thana QOndal, pargana Sher. 
wath, district Burdwan, it is hereby = declared 
that pieces of land in Block ‘“H’’ comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 869, 870, 959 001 
1001 to 1003) and purts of cadastral survey lot 
Nos. 863 to 868, 960 to 962, 986 to 989, 991, 
997 to 1000, 1004 to 1006, 1014 and 1028, and’ 
altogether imeasuring, more or less, 9.67 202৮5, 
are needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid village of 
Gopalmath. 


This declaration 1s made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1§94 
(1 of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom 1 may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the go: Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well aa in that of the 11م‎ 1--85۰. 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


By order of the Governor 


YP. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Gort. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., Wel 
Bengal. at Weat Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 18th July 1956. 


Registered No. C207 No. 29 of 1956 


080:3 Gazette 


Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1956 


Ee نے‎ 


The undermentioned Extraordinary issues of the “Calcutta Gazette” were published 


up to 7th July 1956 
Isane Order /Notification/ Department. Subject. Pages, 
No, Declaration No. and date. 
897 (1) ee Commissioner of Polica, Enforcing section 144, Criminal Proce- 1591-1592 
Calcutta. dure Code, from Ist July 1956 until 
further orders in the area described , 
۰ therein. 
828 (IVA) No. 1615L., datetl the 2nd Legislative oe .. The West Bengal Premises Tenancy 1568-4 
July 1956. (Amendment) Bill, 1956. 
820 (IVA) No. 1616L., dated the 2nd Ditto ee -- The Caloutta University (Amendment) 1595-1506 
July 1956. Bill, 1956. 
330 (I) No. 11656L.A., dated the 2nd Land and Land Revenue .. Withdrawing from acquisition of land 1597 
July 1956. declared for acquisition in Hooghly 
district. 
3$1 (I) No. 5727M. /2C-14/56, dated Local Self-Government -+ Rules made under Bengal Act V of 1911 1599-1601 
the 2nd July 1956. for regulating elections under clause 
(৫) of section 4)1( of the said Act. 
332 (2) No. 11796L. Ref., dated the Land and Land Revenue -» Amendments in the West Bengal Barga- 1603-1604 
4th July 1956. dars Rules, 1950. 
333 (IVA) No. 1661L., dated the 5th Legislative oe -» The Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) (Amend- 1605-1607 
July 1956. ment) Bill, 1966. 
$34 (5) No. 11870L.A. and 2 others, Land and Land Revenue *১ Acquisition of land in Burdwan and ٹف1609.1۵‎ 
dated the 5th July 1956, Murshidabad districta. 
and No. 11866L.A, (P.W.), 
dated the 6th July 1956. 
335 (I) No. 2084A.R., dated the 5th Home (Constitution and Elec. Further amendment in the notification 161]-1612 
July 1966. tions). “No, 34298., dated the 13th June 1952. 
336 (I) No. l1914L.A., dated the Land and Land Revenue .- Acquisition of land in Burdwan district 1613-1614 
6th July 1966. 
337 (I) No. 11940L.A., dated the 6th Ditto $ ও -. Acquisition of land in Burdwan district 1615-1616 


- July 6. 


PART I.—Orders and notifications by the 
Governor of West Bengal, the High Oourt, 


PART IVB,—Bills introduced in the West 


Bengal 14351956155 Reporta of 


Council; 


Government Treasury, ٥٥۰ - . 2763—2881 Select Committees p না ni to be 
PART IA. ers and notifications of the mami to that Council; and Bills pub 
Government of “India, Statutory notifications fore introduction in that Council ہد‎ শা 
of the Election Commission, India, and other ae li 
Election notifications published for general রা رر‎ রি সেটি rare ক 
information. Orders and notifications which mulgated by tho Presidont— 
have originally been published in the “Gazette ا وس‎ 
of India” are only republished ~» 293-299 st এ Income-tax (Amendment) Act, oe 
PART IB.— ae ..  441—442 is ig 7 ie 
সরি Sees i PART VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of 
PART I].—Advertisoments, notices .. .» 827-836 India; Reporta of eget স্ব re 
to Parliament; an publi ore 
5 ok ie ve The Factories (Amendment) Bill, 1956, with 
مصدصمما00--.111۸ کا‎ promulgated by the Statement of Objects and Reasons oe 121~122 
vernor of West Bengal under the Conasti- 
iene و‎ 8 Na SUPPLEMENT No. 29-- 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of Weet 
PART IVA.—-Bills introduced in the Weat Be for the week ending the Sth July 
Legislative Assembly £ Reporte ۰. 195 ee eo. oe ee 479——<480 
Ser চি সুদে ওল سد خر‎ oe pub- Caloutta Improvement Trust—Notices oe 481 
ished before introduction in that Assembly Nil Corporation of Caloutta—Corrigendum is 481 


2164 THE CALCUTTA 04.21011, JULY 19, 1966 


{Paut J 


ہے پت جچجج جج جج شچ ললঙ ee‏ شڈ شش شش س_ شس شش سی شی شششترر _ شس 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


জ্বরাম্ধী 11 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


সাধারণ শাসন। 


General Administration 
নং ২৭১২জি,এ। 
No. 2712G.A. 
[নিয়োগ 1۱ 
Appointments and Transfers 
সাধারণ। 


General 


২৬৩০জ,এ। ৮পি-২৮২। ৫৬।--৬ই জুলাই‏ سم اجب[ 
১৯৫৬।-_বর্ধমান জেলার উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীবমলরঞ্জন চক্রবর্তী‏ 
হইলেন।‏ یہ[ বাঁকুড়া জেলার বিফংপ্‌রে‏ 


Burdwan - Bankura. — No. 29803.4.| 
8P-282/56. — 6th July 1966. — The 
Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Bimal 
Ranjan Chakrabarti, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, Burdwan, to be a Deputy Magis- 
trate and Deputy Collector in the Bankura district 
and to post him to the Vishnupur eubdivision of 


that district. : 


বাঁকুড়া-নর্ধমান।_নং ২৬৩১জ,এ। ৮প-২৮২। ৫৬।--৬ই জুলাই 
১৯৫৬।-বাঁকুড়া জেলার বিফুপুরের জবর শাসক ও সমাহ্র্তা 3۰ 
কুমার মুখোপাধ্যায় বর্ধমান জেলার সদরে Tae হইলেন। 


Bankura-Burdwan.—No. 2631G.A. /8P-282/56. 
—6th July 1956.—The Governor ig pleased to 
dMpoint Shri Subodh Kumar Mukharji, Sub- Magis- 
trate and Sub-Collector, Vishnupur, Bankura, 

a Sub-Magistrate and Sub- 
Collector in the Burdwan district and to post him 
to the headquarters station of that district. 


বর্ঘমান-২৪-পয্সগনা।_নং ২৬৩তাঁজ,এ। ৮াঁপ-২৮৬২। ৫৬।-৬ই জুলাই 
১৯৫৬।-_বর্ধমান জেলার আসানসোলের অবর শাসক ও সমাহর্তা 
مق‎ wheat ২৪-পর়গনা জেলার সমরে fre হইলেন। 
۱ 


Burdwan-24-Parganas.— No. 2633G.A. { 8P-282 | 
56.—6th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Chunilal Chaudhuri, Sub-Magistrate 
and Sub-Collector, Asansol, Burdwan, to be a Sub- 
Magistrate and Sub-Collector, in the 24-Parganas 
district and to post him to the headquarters 
station of that district. 


অুর্শিদাবাদ-ই ৪-পরগলা ।-_নং ২৬৩৪াজ,এ। ৬নপি-২৮২। ৫৬।--৬ই 
জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-মার্শিদাবাদ জেলার লালবাগের অবর শাসক ও সমাহ্র্তা 
ST EN মজুমদার ২৪-পরগনা জেলার বারাকপূরে fa 


হইলেন। 


Murshidabad - 24778188185. — No. 26940... 1 
8P-282/56.—6th July 1966.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint Shri Kumar Gurukram 
Mazumdar, Sub-Magistrate and Sub-Collector, 
Lalbagh, Murshidabad, to be a Sub-Magistrate and 
Sub-Collector in the 24-Parganas district and to 


ost him to the Barrackpore subdivision of that 
istrict, 


২৪-পরগনা-র্শিদাষা । নং ২৬৩৫জ,এ। ৮প-২৮২। ৫৬।--৬ই 
জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-২৪-পরগনা জেলার বারাকপুরের অবর শাসক ও 
সমাহর্তা শ্রীবফুপদ মুখোপাধ্যায় মার্শদাবাহছ জেলার লালবাগে ay 
হইলেন। 


24-Parganas - Murshidabad. — No. 26360... 1 
8P-282/56.—6th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint Shri Bishnupada Mukherjee, 
Sub-Magistrate and Sub-Collector, Barrackpore, 
24-Parganas, to be a Sub-Magistrate and Sub- 
Collector in the Murshidabad district and to post 
him to the Lalbagh subdivision of that district. 


বর্ধমান।-নং ২৬৩এাঁজ,এ। 8এস-১৮। ৫৫1--৬ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-- 
অবকাশতোগণী অবর উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীকারটীকুমার মুখোপাধ্যায় 
বর্ধমান we আসানসোলে face اہب‎ 


Burdwan.—No. 2637G.A./4S-18/55.—6th July 
1966.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Kiriti Kumar Mukherjee, Sub-Deputy Magis- 
trate and Sub-Deputy Collector, on leave, to be a 
Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector 
in the Burdwan district and to post him to the 
Asansol subdivision of that district, 


বর্ধসান-ছাওড়া। নং ২৬৩৮জ,এ। ৪এস-১৮। ৫৫1--৬ই went 
১৯১৫৬ ।-বর্ধমান ہ03‎ আসানসোলের অবেক্ষাধীন উপ-শাসক ও 
সমাহর্তা শ্রীধীরেল্দ্রমোহন ঘোষ হাওড়া জেলার সদরে few হইলেন। 


Burdwan-Howrah.—No. 2638G.A./48-18/55.— 
6th July 1966.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Dhirendra Mohan Ghosh, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deput Collector, on 
probation, Asansol, Burdwan, to be a 
Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector, on pro- 
bation, in the Howrah district and to post him to 
the headquarters station of that district. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Seoy. 


اد سح 


Wie 
Leave 
51111۹ ۱ 

General 


কলিকাতা। নং ২৬৫৬জি,এ। ৬এল-১২। ৫৬।--১০ই জুলাই ٤۱ 
_পশ্চিমবশা sere নিয়মাবলশর ১৮৪(খ)(২) নিয়ম অনৃসারে স্বরাণী 
বিভাগের সহ-কর্মসচিব শ্লীপ্রভাসচল্দ্র fas ২৫এ আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ 
হইতে গড় বেতনে চার মাসের ٹل‎ মঞ্জুর করা হই্ল। 


Calcutta.—No. 2656G.A./6L-12/56.—10th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Provash Chandra Mitra, Assistant Secretary, 
Home Department, leave on average pay, for four 
months, with effect from the 25th August 1956 
under rule 184(b)(ii) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


ae 


২৪-পরগনা।-নং ২৫৭৪জি,এ। ৩এল-২১। ৫৬।-৩রা TAME ১৯৫৬। 
--২৪-পরগনা জেলার অবর উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্লীঅমূলাচল্দ্র সর্বন্্রকে 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গ Worse নিয়মাবলশর (oT খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখাক নিয়মান:সারে 
sok OA ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে উনিশ দিনের ies ছুটি মঞ্জর 
করা হইল। 


24-Parganas.—No. 2574G.A. /381-21/56.—ard 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Amulya Chandra Sarbajna, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, Sealdah, 
24-Parganaos, earned leave for nineteen days, with 
effect from the 116) June 1956, under rule 16701) 
of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


part ]] THE CAIQUITA GAZEITE, JULY 19, 1956 2768 


নং ২৬৫০জি,এ। ৪এস-৫০। ৫৫।--১০ই জৃলাই ১৯৫৬।-অবর উপ- 
শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীক্ষিতীন্দ্রন্দ্র ঘোষালকে পাঁশ্চমবঙ্গা gore নিয়মা- 
বলশর (oT খণ্ড) ১৬৭৯) ধারা অনুসারে খরা মার্চ ১৯৫৬ তারখ 
হইতে ১লা «Siem ১৯৫৬ তারখ wee alee ছুটি দেওয়া 
হইয়াছিল। 


No. 26600.4../49-60/06.--46)0) July 1966.—The 
Governor was pleased to allow Shri Kshitindra 
Chandra Ghosal, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector, earned lenve for the period from 
the 2nd March 1956 to the Ist April 1956, under 
rule 107(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I. 


বাকুড়া।_নং ২৬৬০জি,এ। ৬এল-১৬। ৫৬।--১০ই জুলাই voce i— 
বাঁকুড়া জেলার অবর শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীসবোধচন্দ্র ব্যানার্জকে 
প্চমবঞ্গা FOS 'নিয়মাধলীর (১ম رم‎ ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক 7 
٢ WA ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে ২০এ জুন ১৯৫৬৯ তারিখ পর্যন্ত 
আর্জত ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


Bankura.—No. 2660G.A. /6L-16/56.—10th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Subodh Chandra Banerjee, Sub-Magistrate 
and Sub-Collector, Bankura, earned leave for the 

eriod from the 8th June 1956 to the 20th June 
966, under rule 16101) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


আরকা। 
Police 


কাঁলকাভা+-নং ২৬১৬জ,এ। ৫এল-১০-৫৬। ৫ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-- 
কলিকাতার সহ-নগরপাল aE বর্ধনকে ১১ই জুন ১৯৫৬ 
হইতে একমানের ছাট মজুর করিয়া এই বিভাগের sek জুন ১৯৫৬ 
তারিখের ২১১০জি,এ, নং প্রজ্ঞাপনে যে আদেশ প্রদত্ত হইয়াছিল তাহা 
বিলোপ করা হইল। 


Caloutta.—No. 2616G.A./6L-10/56.—Sth July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel the 
orders contained in this department notification 
No. 2110G.A., dated the 16th June 1956, allowing 
Shri Nihar Kumar Bardhan, Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Police, Calcutta, leave for one month, 
with effect from the 116) June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


qa ast 


Defence 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 1044H.D./6L-35/55.—2nd July 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to allow Shri R. N. 
Bhaduri, Administrative Officer, West Bengal 
National Volunteer Force, earned leave for 
twenty-two days with effect from the urd Decem- 
ber 1955 under rule 168(i) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, on his return from deputa- 
lion to the Infantry School, MHOW. 


By order of the Governor, 


I. 8. SURITA, 


State Defence Co-ordination Officer and 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Jails 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 1G191T.J./1E-1/8/55.—lith Jume 1956.— 

ie Governor is pleased to extend the term of 
re-employment of Shri Probodh Kumar Majum- 
ar, retired Sub-Magistrate and Sub-Collector, to 
© post of Assistant Inspector-General of 
Prisons, West Bengal, on the existing terms for 
৪ further period of three months with effect from 
the 6th June 1956. 


_ No. 1776H.J.—27th June 1966.—The Governor 
is pleased to appoint Shri Apurba Kumar Muiira, 
Superintendent, Burdwan District J ail, as Deputy 
Superintendent, Dum Dum Central Jail, on pro- 
bation for one year, with effect from 2nd June 
1955. Shri Maitra will, until further orders, 
continue to hold his present appointment. 


No. 1792H.J./38-10/55.—29th June 1956.—The 
overnor is pleased to appoint Dr. S. C. 
Mazumder, Civil Surgeon, Burdwan, to act, until 
further orders, as a Special Officer under the 
Prisons Directorate, West Bengal, Dr, Magumder 
will be attached to the Dum Dum Central Jail. 


By order of the Governor, 


J. C. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


لی جم مس 


Police 
NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 2339Pl./F2A-58/55.—25th June 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by section 2 
of the Bengal Public Gambling Act, 1867 
(Bengal Act II of 1867), hereinafter referred to 
as the said Act, the Governor is pleased to 
extend sections 1 to 9 (both inclusive) and sections 
11, 11A, 12, 15 and 16 of the said Act to the 
Mouzas mentioned in the table below, within the 
Moyna police-station, in the Tamluk subdivi- 
sion of the Midnapore district :— 


Table. 
Name pf Mouza. Jurisdiction 

hist No. 
1. Arangkiarana ... 200 
2. Izmalichak ... 6 
3. Gobradan we 206 
4. Bakcha ... 09 
§. Khidirpur ... 8 


০. 2341P]./P2A-48/52.—25th June 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by clause (@) 
of sub-section (2) of section 27 of the Benga 
Suppression of Immoral Traffic Act, 1933 (Bengal 
Act VI of 1988), the Governor is pleased to 
make, after previous publication, as required by 
sub-section (1) of the said section, the following 
rule, namely :— 


The fee for the inspection by the public of the 
register of houses, rooms and places in the 
Hooghly-Chinsura, Serampur, Bhadreawar and 
Uttarpara Municipalities and also in the mouzas 
within the Tarakeswar and Chanditala police- 
stations in the district of Hooghly, in respect of 
which an order has been made under section 6 
of the Bengal Suppression of Immoral Traffic 
Act, 1933 (Bengal Act VI of 1933), maintained by 
the Superintendent of Police, Hooghly, under 
sub-section (7) of the said section, shall be Rs. 2. 


Howrah.—No. 2365911. /F2A-27/55.—26th June 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sec- 
tion 2 of the Bengal Public Gambling Act, 1967 
(Bengal Act IT of 1867), the Governor is pleased 
to extend all the sections of the said Act (except 
section 13 which already applies) to the following 
mougas within the Bagnan police-station in the 


2766 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


[Part I 


ee 


Uluberia subdivision of the Howrah district, 
namely :— 


Jurisdiction list No. of 


Name of mauza. police-station Bagnan. 


1. Gopa)pur 2 41 
2. Khadinin as 59 
3. Chandrapur - 58 
4. B&gndn 7 60 
.۰ت5‎ Hijlak 7 61 
6. Tepur 08881) es 62 
7. Durllabhpur ee 63 
8. Rasti oe 78 
9. Khalor oe 74 
10. Mahadebpur oe 75 
11. Sitalpur 7 76 
12. R&nchandrapur ve 77 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, Secy. 


০০ 


No. 2435P1./P13F-22/55.—29th June 1966.— 

he Governor is pleased to re-employ Shri 
Haridas Ganguli, a retired Assistant Chemical 
Examiner, 8৪ an Assistant Chemical . Examiner 
of the Forensic Science Laboratory, West Bengal, 
for a period of one year with effect from the lst 
June 1956. 

By order of the Governor, 


I. B. SURITA, Dy. Secy. 


DEVELOPMENT (ROADS) DEPARTMENT 


Establishment 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 37D. /E.—20th June 1966.—The services of 
Shri D. N. Mukherjee, temporary Assistant 
Engineer, Rampurhat subdivision, were replaced 
at the disposal of the Works and Buildings Depart- 


ment, with effect from the afternoon of April 23, 
1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


B. MUKHERJEE, Addl. Asst. Secy. 


JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
J 11 e } 


Appointments and Transfers. 


24-Parganas.— No. 4210J.—29th June 1956.— 
Shri H. N Mukherjee, temporary Magistrate, 
Alypore, is appointed as the Superintendent of 
the office of the Administrator-General and Official 
Trustee, West Bengal, for a period of six months 
with effect from the date of his joining. 


By order of the Governor, 
A, K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


SES 


Calcutta—No. 4235J.—2nd July 1956.—The 
(Governor is pleased to extend the term of appoint- 
ment of Shri B. K. Ghosal, temporary Accounts 
Officer in the Sheriff’s Office, Calcutta, 10 
in this department notifications Nos. 7106J., 
29363., 1099. 3665J., 7597J., 32413. and 7788J., 
dated the 18th December 1952, 8th May 1953, 13th 
November 1953, 4th June 1954, 7th December 
1954, 2nd June 1955 and 14th December 1956, 
respectively, by a further period till the 86 
December 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
| K. HAJARA, Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Caicutta.—No. 4221J.—2nd July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by section 18 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 
1898), the (#overnor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Jehangir Kabir to be a Presidency Magis- 
trate in Calcutta for a period of one year, with 
effect from the 16th July 1956 and empower him 
to sit singly gs 0 Presidency Magistrate. 


M idnapore.—N 0 Py 4264) ১৫0) July 1966 ےم‎ 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(2) of section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law 
Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 (Weat 
Hengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor is 
pleased to distribute to the Midnapore Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4632J., 
aated the 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of 
the said Act, the following case involving an 
oifence specified in the schedule to the said Act, 
to be tried by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State rersus Gouranga Maity, Postman 
of Jhargram post-office, son of Jiban Maity, 
of Radhanagar, police-station Jhargram, 
district Midnapore, under section 409, 
Indian Penal Code (Jhargram F.S. case 
No. 7, dated the 1161) May 1956). 


Bankura.—No. 4256J.—4th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(2) of section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal 
Law Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 
(West Bengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor 28 
pleased to distribute to the Bankura Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4692.) 
dated the 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of 
the said Act, the following case involving an 
affence specified in the schedule to the said Act, 
٠ہ‎ be tried by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State versus Sashi Sekhar Sarker, Branch 
Post Master, Bakulia ‘post-office, son of late 
Bholanath Sarkar, of Gopalnagar, police- 
station Saltora, district Bankura, under 
section 409, Indian Penal Code. 


No. 42038J.—2nd July 1956.—In exercise of the 
power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 4 of 
the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal 
Act XXI of 1949), the Governor is pleased to 
distribute to the West Bengal Second Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4632J., 
dated 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of the 
said Act, the following case involving offences 
specified in the schedule to the said Act, to be 
tried by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State versus (1) Kishori Mohan Das, 
President, Union Board No. VII 
(Sayasthanagar Union Board), son of late 
Ram Chandra Das, of Gandharbapur, 
police-station Baduria, district 24-Parganas, 
under section 409, I.P.C., and (2) Jatindra 
Nath Mondal, son of late Kanai 141 Mondal, 
of Gandharbapur, police-station Baduria, 
district 24-Parganas, under sections 4091 
109, I.P.C. 


No. 4206J.—2nd July 1956.—In exercise of the 
power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 4 of 
the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Benyal 
Act XXI of 1949), the Governor is pleased to 
distribute to the West Bengal Second Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4692., 
dated 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of the 
said Act, the following case involving an offence 


pari! ] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2767 


০ 


specified in the schedule to the said Act, to be 
fried by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State versus Hrishikesh Chowdhury, son of 
late Harendru Nath Chowdhury, of 44/1 
Bowbazar Street, Calcutta, urmder  ser- 
tion 165A, I.P.C. 


INo. 4208J.—2nd July 1956.—JIn exercise of the 
power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 4 of 
the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1949), the Governor is pleased to distribute to 
the West Bengal Second Special Court constituted 
by notification No. 4632J., dated 22nd°August 
1962, under section 2 of the said Act, the follow- 
ing case Involving offences specified in the 
سے‎ to the ৪010 Act, to be tried by the said 
Special Court : — 


The State versus (1) Pravash Ranjan Goswami, 
son of late Gorachand (Goswami, of 1۸ 


(irey 68৮৪৮) Calcutta, and village 
Bhalsar, police-station Kuatwa, district 
Burdwan, under sections  1202B/420, 


1.P.C., (2) Kamal Ghosh, a clerk of the 
office of the Iron and Steel Controller, 
Calcutta, son of late Khitish Ch. Ghosh, of 
108 Jatin Mitra Lane, Calcutta, under 
sections 120B/420 and 409, I.P.C., (8) 
Bankim Ch. Maity, a peon of the office of 
the Iron and 861 Controller, Calcutta, son 
of late Jiban Ch. Maity, of 0 Ramdhan 
Khan Lane, Calcutta, and village Kumarava, 
police-station Mahisadal, district Midnapore, 
under sections 120B/420, I.P.C., and (4) 
Tara Prasanna Saha, son of late Madan 
Mohan Saha, of 27 Sovabazar Street, 
Caleutta, and village Kajarasi, police- 
station Tangail, district Mymensingh, 
under section 120B/420, I.P.C. 


By order of the (tovernor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


co RD 


Registration 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Cooch Behar,—No. 538Regn.—bdth July 1950, 
In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(1) of section 7 of the Indian Registration Act, 
1908 (XVI of 1908), the Governor is pleased to 
sanction the retention for a further period from 
Ist July 1060 to 28th February 1957 of the 
10006 of the Joint Sub-Registrur of Mekliganj at 
Haldibari in the district of Cooch Behar, the 
fontiinance of which was Inst sanctioned under 
this department notification No. 116Regn., dated 
the 8th February 1956. 


Cooch Behar.—No. 5389Regu.—fith July 6۰ 
—Tn exercise of the power conferred by section 
6 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (XVI of 
1908, the Governor is pleased to appoint for o 
further period from Ist July 19506 to 28th Feb- 
luary 1957 the Circle Officer of Haldibari_ in 
the district of Cooch Behar to be جم‎ officio Sub- 

gistrar of Mekligani at Heldibari whose 
Mpointment ag such wns last sanctioned under 
this department notification No. 117Regn., dated 
the 81] February 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


A. K. DAS, Dy, Seoy. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
Taxation 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 1412F.T.—29th June 1956.—The Governor 
ig poeta to place the services of Shri Krishna- 
hallay Fal Choudhuri, Permanent Commissioner 
of Commercial Taxes, West Bengal, and now 
appointed as Special Officer and ex officio Deputy 
Secretary, Finance Department, Government of 
West Bengal, at the disposal of the Government 
of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of 
Kiconomic Affairs, with effect from the date on 
which he is relieved of his present duties. 


By order of the Governor, 
R. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


EXCISE DIRECTORATE 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 19Kxc.—12th July 1956.—Shri Sibnarayan 
Ganguly, Inspector of Excise, on probation, 
Calcutta, is transferred to the district of Jalpaiguri 
and posted to Sadar Range. 


This cancels the orders of transfer of Sri Radha- 
shyam Surkar, Inspector of Excise, Calcutta, to 
the district of Jalpaiguri issued with notification 
No. 72Exc., dated 22nd March 1956. 


No. 20K xe.—12th July 1956.—Shri Niharendra 
Kumar Bose, Inspector of Excise, is granted a 
further extension of leave as follows :— 


(1) Leave on private affairs for twenty-four 
days from 6th June 1956 to 29th June 
1956 under rule ow of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, and 


(ii) Extraordinary leave for sixteen days from 
d0th June 1956 to 15th July 1956 under 
rule 174(1)(a) end, 


M. SEN, Commissioner. 


পশ্চিমবঞ্গ বাণিজ্যকর আঁধকার। 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES, 
WEST BENGAL 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলণ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 

নং ৭৭৫১৯িট।--২৯এ GA ১৯৫৬।-লায়ম্দ রেঞ্জ কার্ধভারের 
বাঁপজ্যকর আধকারিক (২য় পর্যায়) শ্রীবজনকুমার جہن‎ পাশ্চমবস্গ 
কৃত্ক নিয়মাবলীর (১ম TG) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক 'নয়মান্সারে 290 
মার্চ ১৯৫৬ হইতে ২৯এ মার্চ ১৯৫৬ পর্যষ্ত 'তনাঁদনের আর্জত ছি 
মজুর করা ۹۱ء‎ 

No. 7759C.T.—29th June 1956.—Shri Bijan 
Kumar Som, Commercial Tax Officer, Grade LI, 
Lyons Range Charge, was granted earned leave 
for three days from 27th March 1956 to 29th 


Mareh 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


মং ৭৭৬৩ সিট مد‎ জুন ১৯৫৬।--বিডন স্মীট, ۳ ২ 
কার্যভার়ের বাণিজাকর আধিকারিক (২য় পর্যায়) اڈ‎ সাহাকে 
পাশ্চমবঞ্গ pore নিয়মাবলশর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখক 33 


৬ই জন ১৯৫৬ হইতে ৪ঠা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ ware Sater দিনের ates 
ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইয়াছে। 
অশোকচন্লু WH, 
মহাধাক্ষ। : 

No. 77680.T.—29th June 1956.—Shri Sushil 
Kumar Saha, Commercial Tax Officer, Grade II, 
Beadon Street District II Charge, has heen grant- 
ed earned leave for twenty-nine days from tth 


June 1966 to 4th July 1906 under rule 167(1i) 
of the West Bengal Service Rules, Fart 1. 


Serial 


No. 


60C.T.—Sth July 1966,—In 


of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 


(Sales 18) Act, 
the following names and addresses 


Name of tho dealer. Address and chief place 
No. of business. 


i 2 3 


Mossrx. Dev 


art da 21 vd al Lane, 
Rutir Private Lt 


Calcutta 


82114 Gora Chand Bose 


18815, Metoo. Traders .. 
. سس‎ oad, Calcutta. 


Ramcharitra 76 Ambherat 
Calcutta-9, 


8 Mesars. Street, 


88078 & Bros. 


Gangs Plywood Manu- 36 Dent Mission Road, 
: fenturing Co, Ltd. Calcutta. 


6 Gahanalays 150 Rash Behar! Avenue, 
Calcutta. 
aa 
6 Park Auto Service .» 56/1 Gariahat Road, 
Calcutta. 


9 Bharat Tar & Chemical 8 Kulia Tangra 4th Lane, 
Works, Calcutta. 


8 Pran Ballavy Ghosh ,. Cooch Behar’ 13859, 
Cooch 59088 


Road, 


9 N. 0. Paul ~ لا‎ ae 


10 Mcesrs. Mangilal Duli- 46 Strand Road, Calcutta 
chiind. 


113A Monohardas Street, 


1 Rameswar Mondal 
1 = Calcutta. 


12 Jitendra Nath Paw) .. 118 سرت سس‎ Chowk, 


ta. 


18 Radha Krishan Agarwalla 1188 Monohardas Stroet 
(ist floor), Calcutta. 


14 Malchand Ratanial سا ا‎ Road, Cal- 


16 Meesrs. United Aut 20 3 : 
می وید ایک‎ Mangoe Lane, Calcutta 6&1 Ganesh 


ursuance 


1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
of new 7 


Additional No. and date 
place of 04 registration 


usiness, 


ডি 


ae 


Chandra 
Avenue, 
Calcutta. 


certificate. 
5 


BDI/ নি 
23-6- 


BDI/2670A, 
25-6-56. 


BDI/2671A, 
26-6-56. 


BH /28114, 
22-0-0. 


BH/2812A, 
26-6-56. 


BH /2818A, 
26-6-54. 


BH /2814A, 
28-0-0. 


(0/۸۸, 
22-0-0. 


CR/524A, 
28-6-56. 


0610۸, 
26-0-00. 


0 6 
2০66. = 
06۸, 
26-0, 


CBIV/2847A, 
25-6-06. * 


৯ 


CSIV/2348A, 
20-6-56, ৬ 


0 288/ ا ظ 
,220 


= a OO 2) 


are 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


11181 


registered dealers together with 0 description of 
the 


goods covered by their registration certificates 


published for generul 


Goods for use 11) manufheture or 
in the execution of con- 


tracts. 
٠ 
6 
(1) Raw materlale—Lead Pek 
mochinery, 79 
moulds, tin sheets, tin اس‎ 


abd gunny and other Ingredicuta. 
(2) aye ئا سد‎ spare parts 
and 08۰ 
নী সু stores, 
ed that all goods fur which 
excmption from payment of 
sales tax is clainyd are futended 
in the actual process of inanu- 
ساٹ‎ ure of the goods named 


(1 Lend see Seal 
(61) Nil es wiro for sale. 


(1) Raw materials. 
(2) Piant, machinery, spare parts 
d 800০880416৭ 


an 
(8) Consumable i viz., ت۹‎ 
tle, sylicate, boric, copper sul- 


pha te. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are Intended 
for use In the actual procesa of 
nen gi eb of the goods 
named below :— 

8 Tea cheat 
¢) Commerc board. 


1 Raw matorials. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories, 
3) Consumable stores 
vided that all gooda for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax la claimed are intended 
for use in the 00109] process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 


(4) Gold and silver ornaments. 


উড 


(1) ited materials. 

(2) Plant, machinery, 90876 parts 
and accessories 

(3) Consumable ‘stores, viz., coal, 
caustic soda. 

Provided that all govds for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
গার রগ of the goods named 

ow سس‎ 
(f) Tar ofls, rond-tar, pitch, 
phenyle, royal blue, coal-tar, 


1 Raw materials. 
2 اس سس سر نا‎ hinery, spare ٦ 
es. 


2 নি atores, viz., 

rovided that all goods for ام‎ 
exomption from paymont of 
89195 tax is claimed are intended 
for wie in the actual process of 
Taanufacture of the 900৫8 
named below :-— 
($) Swoetmeat, nimki, singara 

and tva. 


oaee 


86 ٭ھ* 


information :— 


Goods for resale. 


7 


Tooke, paper, typer, ink, globes, 
naps, book binding and printing 
materials. 


Iron and fron scrap. 


fittings, linings, 


paper‏ ساس بے 


nings 


E. P. N. 8. goods. 


Motor 0115, tyres, tubes, batteries, 


motor parte and 8১906880110, 
dusters, pollahing materials, 
cotton waste, distilled water, 
acid, tools, inustrumenta for 
autumoblles, 

Coal-tar, coal-pitch, পপ 
road-tar, bitumen, af 


napthalyne, tar oil, creoso a 


Cycle, cycle rickshaw, lampware, 
stoves, torches, cycle parts, 
oyole rickshaw parts, lampware 
parts and batteries. 


Handloom cloth, mill-made 00011 
ald yarn. 


Hardware, galvantsing and {ron 
wares, nettings, copper, brass 
waros, crows, patent nally, bolts. 
nuts and rivet. 


Galvanised screw, roofing bolte and 
nuts, 11108, hurdware gout 
hinges, 1101) woorl screw, pane 
pin and yas washers, iron 
wire, brass wire, saws, 


Textiles and pleco guuds, 
Huoalery goads, cloth, yarn. 


Motor parw 5100 accessories. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2769 


eee: 


FR AP EPCRA কর শে? SR শা یہ مجر‎ me افو‎ re আত ہیدہ‎ i রক্ত ea eI 


سج تح 


ewe کب‎ 


Serial Name of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for use in manufacture or Goods for resale. 
No. of "8۰ place of ۶ہ‎ registration in the execution of con- 
اہ سا‎ oortificate, tracta. 
1 2 8 4 6 6 7 
16 Mensre, Bengal Hesence 7 Ezra Streot, Calcutta 71/161 cer Kasence, esse ,لا‎ 
hepa سوا 7 کت‎ | nee oll, perfume and 
¢ 
17 Mosare. N. Pate) & Sons Room No. 85, first floor, EHL/3152A, eae Cast iron wares. 
14/2 Old Chins Bazar 23-6-56. 
Street, Calcutta. 
18 21608٠. Jay Ja agit 20 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta ax EL/3163A, aoe accessories, 
biles Co. Private Lid 8 2 6-66. 05557 ٥ 
19 Mesers. Probhat Timber “fond, PARAM ED a Bw س5ت‎ (1) Raw materials. 
Agencica. Shalimar, 56. soa Plant, machinery, spare parta 
Howrah nd accessories 
Provided that all goods for which 
00ٍ from paymont of 
sales tax سا‎ claimed are Intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below سس‎ 
(6) Planks and fuels. 
201 231 قعہ‎ ۶۰۰۰ Milan Kumar Das 128 G. ٣. Road (North), ie 11۳۲/1712۸, 0 Kaw materials, 01 
Salkia, Howrah. 22-6-56. 2) Plant, maciinery, spare parte 
and accessories 
Provided that الع‎ gouds for which 
নিল ihe from, payment of 
x is claimed are intended 
i ساس‎ in the actual process of 
71000099001 of the goods 
named below :— 
i) 3 Jute mill machine parts, 
(Hi) 12 8 Pins, checse head screw, 
)؛6٤(‎ M. 8. Hex head. 
21 Moners, Dass Manufac- 7/1/1 Banaras Road, Sal- -۰ HW/1718A4, (1) Raw materials ا‎ 
turing Works, kia, Howrah. 22-6-56. (2) Plant, এ spare parte 
and accessorie 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below سس‎ 
(¢) Brass notches for umbrellas, 
22 Mesura. Chakraborty 119 Salkia School Road, “a HW/1714A, নি Ham boo, aal posts, bamboo ۱ 
Brothers. Salkia, Howrah. 23-6-56. pantiles, ei ‘sal sien پی‎ 
28 Universal 18 Munshi 79881010011 ee HW/1715A, (1) Raw 08866118515 চিন 
এত টি ই Works. Lano, Howrah. 25-6-56, (2) Plant পপ spare parts 
and accessories 
Provided that all goods for which 
ee tion from payment of 
is claimed are Intended 
“=P use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the gvods 
named below :— 
(4) Strainer and perforated 
brass sheets. 
24 71988. Jnanendra Nath Oodlabari, P.O. Mana- se 3/141۸. Raw materialsa—Timber, 80018 and Logs and 808061180,. 
Adhikary, bari, Jalpaiguri. 25-6-56. implements. 
Provided that all goods for gg 
exemption from pa t of 
88188 is claimed a intended 
for use in the actual process of 
টির ha a of sized r. 
25 Messrs. 8 N. Bose Oodlabari, P. O. Mana- ws JP/1482A, Raw materiale—Timber, 00159 and Logs and acantllugs. 
bari, Jalpaiguri. 26-6-56. mploments, 
vided that all goods for which 
কপ ion from payment of 
eales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual proocas of 
manufacture of gawn timber 
and logs. 
26 Messrs. M. Sarkar & Templo Strect, Jal rl as JP/1488A, Raw materials—gold. .. Gold ornaments, 
Brothers. si یا‎ Provided that all goods eS ا‎ 
sas Fy tion from paym of 
os tax ما‎ claimed are শি 
چم‎ use in actual proces 
manufacture of gold পপ 
27 Kartick Chandra Saha ,. Kandi, Namoo Kandi, ٠ دو 7/1711۸ ک7‎ Cement, 
2۸ ۰ 28-60-56. 
28 Sudhir Ku Choudh Ranaghat, Bha A, ۰ KR/1712A, ঈসা Coal. 
re ০৮ 1:99 98-6-66. 
29 Ganesh Bhandar 9 Ralgunj, Hatkhola, 7 ML/440A, রকম Sugar, cocoannt olf, soda ash, 
est Dinajpur. 23-6-66. sugarcandy, mustard 017, salt, 
kerosene ail, রন cigarette, 
match, Wash 
soap, tollet soap, OM onl 
শী না শা پو اسیو‎ 
groundnut oil, sujee, a aur 
and all kinds of dal. = 
80 Nepal Chandra Das .. 1/0 English Bazar Street. নি ML/441A, দর اسر سی‎ cloth—Dhutl, sari, 
1 teres. : 26-6-56 নি کم و‎ 
2, I 
۹ ا‎ clot jute fanned, 1 " 
Handloom-made—eari, ei 
sari, Bhagalpuri i tes ۵ 
81 Abdul Rohman Mia ., Sahabanchak 7 ML/442A, sees Kerosene oll, mustard oll, ph 
* bad, 0 Malte 27-6-56. gur, sugar, chhos, 118) 
marich, matches, bidi, ہے‎ মি ১০ 
— ,, coonanut oll, oil, مسب 6ن‎ 
পৃ کعا‎ ghee, শিস রহ 
88 1). 9. Snuff Co. Ltd. .. 74 Jeasora Round, Patipne 70/1662۸ Raw materials, ate 
kur, Caloutta-87. 18-60. i 57ئ' ,ػ8‎ spare parte 
لاہ‎ (015878811৩0 stores 
Provided that all goods for which 
ک2‎ from payment of 
ralos is ا‎ plea par are intended 
for uso in the actual of 


manufacture of the goods 
named below س‎ 


(8) Snuff. 


2770 


No. 61¢0.T.—fSth July 1966.—In 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finauce 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers whose registrations under the Act ৬০ 


Berial Name of the dealer. Addressand chief place of Additional 
No. bukiness, ‘lace of registration 
UNI TERE, certificate. 
1 2 8 4 5 
1 Shiv Store .. Burnpur, Burdwan AS/1605A, 
21-4-55, 
2 (8) Mewars. Shree 46 Uppor Chitpur Road, ৯৪ MDI/1714A4, 
amala Stores Calcutta. 10-8-49, 
Private Ltd., fur 
Shree Kamala Stores 
Ltd. 

8 (3) Agarwal Hardware 167 Chittaranjan Avenue, a9 BD1/1586A, 
Works Private Ltd., Calcutta. 22-82-49, 
Jor Agarwal Hard- 
ware Works, Ltd. 

4 Messrs. General Trad- (8) 96 Narkeldanga Main (৪) 
mg Company. ad, Calcutta, for BD1/2660A, 

5 Bentick Street, or 
Calcutta. EL/2234A, 
21-18-50. 
6 (8) The East India 161 Chittaranjan Avenue, 2 BDI/404A, 
ubbér Works Calcutta. 24-09-41. 
Private Ltd, for 
The East India 
Bubber Works Ltd. 

6 7 Timber 44/1 Canal East Road, 7 BDI1/2548A, 
Works. Calcutta-11 ٠ 5 1 8-4-5 

Mesers. Jindal (India) 18111 Harrison Road, = 01/2844۰‏ ؟ 
Ltd. Calcutta. 6-65-62.‏ 

8 Messrs. National Suw 46 Strand Road, 7 0631/29232۸, 
and Plywood Works. Calcutta. 4 9.6-62. 

9 Mesars. 10651) 21041 (9) 16 Pageyapatty Street 7 (৪ 

2 810 و عم‎ Calcutta, C81/2608A, 
or 4 Sukhial Jahery ০ 

Lane, Calcutta. BDII/2190A, 
80- ۶ 0. 

10 Messr. Nirmal Kumar (5) 16 Pageyapatty Street, ‘ (8) 

Lipendra 77 Calcutta, for 14 Abhoy 01811269108, 
Sirkar Lane, Calcutta. or 
OSIV/22024, 
17-38-64, 

11 2040. Banwarilal 76 Cotton Street, Calcutta (1) 906 
Girdharilal. Calcutta. 1-6-56. 

12 Messrs. Brijlal@ Sony 76 Cotton Street, Cal- Calcutta (1) ONI/215B, 

cutte. 9-০-৪৫. 

13 Mesara. Saligram 7 Sambhu Mullick Lano, - CAT/2607A, 
Laxminarayan. Calcutta. 18-2-66. 

14 Mesars.N. Das & Bons (8) 88 Netaji Subhas (৪) 
Le Boad, Calcutta, for 0811/1763 

Bulpara, Barisha, 24- or 
Parganas. ۶۱/۵8, 
28-90-49. 

15 (8) Messrs. A.“K. 10 Jackson Lane, CRITI/190LA, 
Choudhury & Co., for Caicutta, 20-9-50, 
Messrs. 8 bon ۰ 
Nundy & Co. 

16 (8) Messrs. Seatco (8) 135 Canning Street, -» (8) CSIIT/2617A, 
(India) Private Ltd. Caleutta, for 10 Old or 
for Messrs. Seateo Post Office treet, EL/1795A, 
(india) Ltd. عاونا‎ ا٤٤۰‎ 16-3-9. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


pursuance 


Raw materials.‏ )1( سی 


ao 


No. and date of Goods for use in manufacture 


or in the exeoutlur of tho 
contracts, 


e@eprea 


fF 


(A) (1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts and accessor 
(83) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the 80048 named 
below :-—- 
{) Pipes, 
i) Pipe fittings, 
it) Nate and bolita. 


৪5৪2৪ 
vee 


اف 


ant, tnachinery, spare 
parts and accessories, 


(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all guods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax ھا‎ 
claimed are intended for 


089 in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 
(4) Washers, cast iron, 
fittings, bolts, nuts 
Jor 
Iron rod and sheets, 
hardware. 
and 


(1) Any other raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts, accessnrica and 
consumable stores. 

(8 ding or plumbing 

rials, or fixtures, ۰ 
ulred for construction, fit- 
mut or سس ا‎ = any 

© 


bul ding certified th 
purchosing deakr fo be 
required for use in any 


process in the manufacture 
of washer, cast iron, fitting, 
bolt, nut, for sale. 


[Part ۲ 


শা 


Gooda for rosale, 


7 
سی بنا ہیں‎ washing soap, cns- 
et, wool, patent medicine, 


eos 


(A) Tea cheat, battens, wood 
wool, cane wool, packing 
straw and saw dust, 


(A) Resin, casein and eld 
hard ner, 


eevee 


(A) Mill-made cloth 
(A) Mill-made cloth 7: 


(A) Aluminium utensils, ۸۳۶۵ 
paper and hardware go 718. 


amended with 6161 from the date noted against 
each of them and im respect of the particulars 
appearing in the different columns in the manner 
indicated against such particulars are published 
for geueral info! mation سے‎ 


Date of 
amend- 
mont. 


23-0-56 


26-6-56 


27-6-0 


12-0 


22-0-0 


22-6-56 


28-6-0 


27-0-06 
00۔27 
سد 


6۔7 2 


22-0-0 


23-6-60 


23-0-56 


Part I] 


পাপ‏ - اج 


90018] Name of the dealer. 
No. 


1 2 

17 (8) Messts, Gencral 
ndustrial গে 
Supplying 
(Privaie), لاڈ‎ on 
০888 Gono 
کس‎ Stores 
upplying 0. 
Lt. 


18 Messrs. Shoth Brothers 
19 8, Hanutmal 
Harakhchand. 


20 Messrs. Sukhdeodas 
Sewnath. 


¢1 (9 Messrs. Ediaiun 
lectric and En- 


Ineering 
Private, 
or Mesets. Ediaion 
مم‎ & Engineer- 
ing Co., Ltd td. 


22 BilashraiSrikishen ., 


28 Kishorilal] Olihabil- 
088৪, 


24 Banwarilal Ghania- 
shyamdas. 


26 Omprokash Kailash 
Chandra. 


26 )8( سا‎ রি 
ا‎ Oo., দিসে 
Private, Ltd., for 
শা ue ۰ 
ional nera 
73 (India) 

87 Meer. P 
এট ইলা বি 


26 Bhatjangla Brick Field 


29 (8) Francis Klein & 
Co. (Private) Ltd. 


‘or 
Francis Kletn & Oo., 
Ltd., 
80 (8) Fancy 01888 Co. 
(Priva کک‎ Ltd. 
Tho National Glass Oo. 


81 تہ ا‎ Phoenix Tea 


82 এপ নিশো Chemical 


Works, 
88 (9) Rash Behari Sen 
(1897) gies Ltd. 

Rash Behari | 
کی‎ 891) )1897( 
84 (8) Nahalohand Laloo- 
chand Private, Ltd. 


Nahalchand Laloo- 
chand, L 


86 Th ۱ 
ای‎ Trading Oo 


80 Gourangal Oollieries, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


Address and chief place of gs erga No. and dato of Goods for use صا‎ manufacture 


10১৪৪, 


1387 Sue Street, 
Calcutta 


P-7 Old Ohinn Basar 
Btreet, Calcutta. 


2 Rejawoodmunt Street, 


(8) 7 শুনা treot, 
0১০. 
নন টপ Calcutta. 


6 Oross Street, Calcutta 


Kalimpong 

Kalimpong in 
Darjeeling ak 
Biliguri ee 


7 Wellesly Place, 
Caloutta. 


Lal Birpara, Jalpaiguri. .. 


Post office and vi 
Bhatjangla, Rade 


1 20۲6| Exchange Place, 
Calcutta. ii 


co of registration 


usiness. cortificate, 
4 5 
wh CBITI/1580A, 
28-4-40, 
ar CSIII/23833A, 
2-09-53. 


5৩ 08771126908, 
17-83-56. 

oe 8) 

و 

0 1 ایا 


ve OSIV/1010A, 
6-12-49. 


aa 


( No 8 (৪ 
5 শা DJ/141B, 

. Mintri for 
সি 03, 
Kalimpong (1) 25-4-51, 
চাল 
সুদ DJ/808A, 
18-12-53. 


٠ EL/620A, 
16-10-41. 
ee af hr ai 
18-10-55. 
se KR/1 602A, 
7-2-56, 


we LB/1857A, 


$1-1-50. 
187 Old Chinabazar লং LB/1160A, 
Strect, Calcutta. 27-8-46. 
8) 12B Netaji Subhas ۰ 8 
€ اہ‎ 0099 
‘or or 
167 Old ء1‎ ৪৮. 08171195998, 
eet, Caloutta. 21-3-0. 
21A 08901 Street, 1778/2644 
Caloutts, 74: 
100/191 Old (0781170858৫ LR/121B, 
Street, Calcutta. 25-10-48. 
7 Bwallow Lane, Calcutta oe ic a 
étaji Sub, ea (8 
اگ‎ ক টি 0117 
for 
x adh Basar 71/1868۸ 
۶ est Cale . 20-4, 


Calcutta,‏ ال وت 


Radha Basar‏ .21/88۔ 
চাদর, Oalourte.‏ 


৮ LR 263A 
মু 


or in the excoution of 
contracts, 


৪6৪৪ 


رر رب 


৬‏ بر ےب 


eeen 


eee8 


ture of bricks, tiles, শা পর 
and bats. 


Goods for resale, 
7 
(A) Logs. ৪৪৮৪৪ 
(A) Cotton canvas ۰ 
(A) ceo سید‎ 
and jute 
Hand operated shearing 
machine. 
(A) Umbrella .. - 
(4 Cloth, 
A) Cotton, woollen and silken 
h, handloom ০০৮, 


Sy snuff, cement,‏ سے 
,81161001108 


(A) Blankota.. oe 


(D) Cigarettes, salt, biscuits, 
matches. 
(A) Confectionery, 


she battery, 
poppys 
পানে سر سڈ جس‎ 


and brasa sheets,‏ و ا 


sheet, tar- 
paulin, ال‎ সন fittings, 


dor, rubber 
ne uminium ahee' 


aints, pipea and fittings, 
পাও and strings. 


برریر 


ابر تیر 


(0) General merchandise as 


and when required and ০0: 


lified by the purchasing 
۸ 4 uired 


seen Male for 
A) Eveready batteries of all 
এ বদলান 


সন ds kinds, torches and 
سان‎ hurricane Janterna 
and spare parts, stoves of 
all kinds nud spare 
an 


and spare سس‎ at 
,ہہ‎ all kinda of wicks, 
therm. ask of all kinds. 


Tarra 


eaecen 


رر ری 


20-0-64 
20-4-06 


22-0-0 


250-0 


0-0 لال 


22-4-0 


28-4-0 


25-6-66 


22-6-56 


16-0-0 


16-06 


18-0-0 


22-0-00 


20-0-0 


19-4-0 


10-6-56 


10-06-56 


2772 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1968 


— Name of the dealer. Address and chiof place of ক No. and date of Goods for use In manufacture 


buslncas. 


1 9 3 
87 Soman! Bros. Ltd. .. 214A Canning Street, 
Caloutta. 
88 Rajkumar (India) 88 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Private, Ltd. Calcutta. 


39 Hom Bteel Ro 88 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Mike Lea. si Calcutta. 


40 (3) Alexander (Pri- 26 Strand Road, Cal- 
vate), Ltd. cutta. 


or 
Alexander L 


onal Bear Co. (8) India Exchange Buil- 
1 ae is gps سی‎ . 25/29, Royal Ex- 
change lace, Exten.. 
تا‎ 


or 
1A Vansittart Row, Cal- 
cutta. 


. Cak 
42 সুতি ea Cotton سوچ رہ‎ Range 


or 
4 Bankshal Street, Cal 
outta. 


45 03, Prosad & Co we 2 Ciiveghat Street, Cal- 
outta. 


4 ৪) Chemical Agente 2610 Swallow Lane, Cal- 
: ۵5 te, Ltd. cutta. 
lor 
Chemical te, Ltd. 
45 The Ghusick and ৪) 18 Tr Bubhas 
کے‎ ea ৫ 


Musita (3011151558৯ L 
21 سسشیدچ‎ 886৮, 


118110688, 


4 


regiatration 


certificate. 
5 


14181886048, 
15-10-41. 


LR/2667A, 
27-4-56. 


LR/2508A, 
30-83-54. 


LR/688A, 
24-90-41. 


51918, 


‘or 
EL/1 ‘ 
28-8-40. 


(B) 
123/208, 


یں 
.27-90-41 


R/2660 
و‎ 


LRE/960A, 
2৪4৪, 


یی 
من 


or ip the oxecution of the 
contracts, 


(A) (1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts and accessories. 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods = for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of nyanufac- 
ture of the goods named 
bolow سے‎ 

٦ Tea chests components, 
dt) Tea cheats. 


(8) (1) Raw materials 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parla and accessorics. 


(8) Consumable stores. %15., 
ooke and oval. 


Provided that all yoods for 
which exemption from 04১১ 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use ln tho 
actual of manufac- 
turo the goods named 
below !-— 


(6) مسر‎ = 12020 and 


iron, shel and A, B, C. 
certified by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
use in any process in the 
manufacture of channela 
and rion and 5069) goods, 


[Parr [ 


Goods for resale. 


(A) Cemont 


(A) রা” hair, cotton, 


ber, leather and ٢۰٢ 
belts, Lbrushea: paint and 
industrial, 10108, রানে and 
riveta, cocks and valves: 
Bib cocks, atop cocks, tank 
cocks, locking cocks, ‘wheel 
valves, aluice valves, poeta 
valves, stuam cock, gauge 
cock, gland cook, ete, atru- 
otural engiuecring tipping 
wagon, coal tubs, ts, 
an i galanin pre !ما“‎ 


cart, road roller, etc, clec- . 


: )1 018 bulbs, 
| Semele cables, (Insulators, 


coreg fire fighting equip- 
monts: inatantaneous hose 


pipe 7 h nozzle, howe 


71 and ا فلا‎ 
nesia (boiler compound), 
mechanical rubber g ; 
rubber buffers, ,(ظ1ا‎ 
diaphgraima, insertion, 
rubber মাপ ۳۰ را سا‎ 
, Fubber tyre wh 
and casters, tea leaf teolley, 
etc., ull) (steam, 


reassure সি : 86001 
nk: sani goods a 

fittings: tafpeulina all kinds, 
toola ond tmplements (tea 
meh eis a স্পা 
ra nk and perfor 

শো and wire producta: 
brass, copper, مع‎ aud 
alvanised, tea ohents: all 

nis 00070881088, 


(4) Pinding cloth, M. 8. 


ate shafting: brass رھ‎ 
bronze rods, hose pl pipe. 


Ty 


Dute of 
aniend- 


ment. 


6-6-56 


22-6-56 


28-0-50 


95-60-66 


85.0-00 


87-6-56 


part I] THE CAILUTTA GAZETTH, JULY 19, 1966 21 


6 


পেরি লি ES সি হি 


gerisl Nameoofthedealor, Address and chief place Additional 0. 8114 0৮8 Goods for use in manufac- Goods for reaale, Date of 
Ko. of business, 1০৫ of of registratlun tule or in the execution of amend- 
uslness, certificate, contracts. ment, 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 

46 Remrekha Dhanraj Alho, ۶۰ 0, Muchla, 7 ML/426A, os on A) Country-made ropes, sutli 23-6-56 

Prosad. Malda, 24-4-0. ۱ 45 T, dyestaff, جع ہہ‎ 
,ول مم‎ tea, gunny bags, 
barley, old paper, রশ শি 
stationery goods and kirana 
goods, 
47 Chakraborty Tobacco Hat Road, Malda .s (A) Kutub- (৪) বুল 27-6-56 
Stores. و‎ par. Malda ML/21B, 
1). or 
ML/82A, 
0-2-0, 
48 Meghraj Sitaram .. Barabazar, 08101060010 .. ‘ MN/1297A, nee All kinds of woollen chaddars §22-6-56 
23-65-58. (wrappers), genji, yarding 
cloths, umbrella and um- 
brella cloths, woollen shirt- 
ing, printing, coatings. 
blankets, silken cloths an 
ready made piece-goods. 
49 (8) Mosars. Shoreham Calcutta Airport, Dum 7۰ PG/1719A, ee er 20-0-6 
۱ passenger Requisite Dum. 21904 
Stall, 
or 
Messra Pansanger Re- 
quisite Stall. 
60 The Popular Drug 4 Bhupendra Bose Ave- 128/1Cor- SIT/150B, (D) Drugs, medicine and A,B (A) Food products, oxygen 28-6-56 
Tiouse, Ltd. nus, Calcutta. nwallis 20-12-60, certified by the purchasing gas, surgical instruments, 
Rtreet, dealer to be requited for tollet products, rubber, 
Calcutta. uso In any process in the goods, viz., 106 bag, hot 
manufacture of serving of water bag, rubber tubes 
prescription for sale. for medicinal wse, 00108 
7৮" 
(70) Provision stores, sta- 
tlonery guods. 
\61 Krishna Pada Kumar (8) 16/2 Ramkanta Bose as (8) 2 ee 25-6-56 
& Oo. Ltd. Street, সি 8H/2445A, 
or or 
80 Lower circular Road, TL/1824A, 
Caloutta. 80-1-3. 
62 (5) Suchitra Textile 20/0 Banamali Sarkar ক ৪8771166694, ا ری‎ 28-5-56 
Works نک‎ 8৮ Street, Calcutta. 27-20. 
8۵٤8 Textile 
Worka Ltd. 
5S (8) Ramensons Pri- P-08 B.K. Pal Avenue, i 8H /2377A, می دی‎ 22-0-0 
vate Ltd., Caloutta. 8-4-5658, 
ow 
Ramensons Ltd, 
54 (9) Naba Bharati Drug 107 Grey Strect Calcutta. 128 Corn. 8H/188B, wean "22-7 27-8-56 
۳۲ Stores Private wallis 22-38-54. 
td. Atreet, 
سر ئ020‎ rie Calcutta. 
(600 انل‎ ন্ট . 
& Stores Ltd. 
65 (9) Atul Chandra Pal 67/41 Strand Road, Cal- et aa ee Sime 27-0-66 
Tarint Charan Dey cutta. 6-১-4৪, 
Private, وت‎ 
Atul Chandra Pal 
Tarini Charan Dey, 
Ltd 
66 (6) Tho ap = 708 Sovabazar Strect, 7 ئ۸ نک‎ রর শি 28-6-56 
Houiery Mills - Calcutta, 8-12-51, 
vato Ltd., 
The Em ۳ Hoalery 
Mills, Ltd. 
67 (8) Kishor’ Mohan 458 #£=Adhya_ Sradhya 3 817/204۸, وہ دہ‎ 23-0-06 
he & Co. Private, Ghat Road, Calcutta. 20-10-55, 
op for 
Kishor! Mohan Dhar 
& Oo. Ltd. 
08 (5) Dholanath Paul & Son Arambagh, Hooghly .. টি মা: বদি ۰ 15-0-6 
or -4-52. 
Bholanath Paul. 
09 (%) The Assam Indus- 17/A Hara Kumar Tagore ٤ TL/1984A, 2 ہہ‎ 28-0-06 
tries (Private) Ltd., quare, Oalcutta. 6-12-55. 
‘or 
The Assam Industries, 
Ltd. 
Explanatory notes.—Regarding the amend- culars of a registration have been amended:— 
: A) means “Add’’ 
20 : এ 11 ۱ : ; 

ents made, the following Code letters have bee (1)) means. “Delete”. 

. ۰ ۰ 6 bd q a ® ۲ 
used to indicate the manner in which the parti- (S) nieans “Substitute”. 

No. 62C.T.—5th July 1956.—In pursuance covered by their registration certificates whose 
: io Tax) Act os ot (Ber ا‎ রা রা registrations under the Act were cancelled with 
Haleg ax ct, enga 0 0 ’ , 1 : 

১ Pec ie date no ainst each them 
the following names and addresses of registered eBect ou ০) ted 27 of 
dealers together with a description ot the goods aie published for general information :— 

8018) Numoofthedealer. Address and chief place Additional No.anddate Goods for nso inmanufac- Goods for resale. Date of 
No, of business, place of of এ ture or In the execution of cancella- 
0۰ certificate, vontracts. tion. 

1 2 8 4 5 6 7 A 

1 K.P. Bose Lib es Mahendra Goasain = 13107118104 (1) Raw materials, paper .. Booka ae ~»  25-6-56, 

Calcutta. 29-90-41, (2) Plant, machinery, spare‏ سس وت 


parts and ৪0০09901108, 
rovided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax ts 
Claimoad are intended for use 
In the actual proecss 0? 
manufkoture of the goode 
named below سس‎ 
(8) Books for sale. 


2774 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr] 


Serial Name of the doaler. Address and chief place Additional No.anddate Goods for use inmanufac- Goods for resale. 
No. of Duainess. pan of of registration ture or in the oxevutlon of উন 
usiness, certificate. contracts, tion, 
1 2 8 4 6 6 7 8 
2 Oafe Mverost -» 136A Hash Behari Ave- oe BH/2247A, Hotel requisites, oilman Cafe, aerated water, drinks, 26-6-56 
nue, Oalcutta. 12-90-61. stores, tea, coffee, ghee biscuits, pastries and sweets, : 


and A, 1) certified by the 
purchas ng dealer to be 

or use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of cocked fdou, drinks and 
eweeta for sale. 


8 Hari Nandi and 85 Ashutosn 32 6 ক 028 (1) Raw materials .. <All kinds of piece goods 23- 
= ig Boad, Calcutta. 151১ (cloth). | “5 ‘ চি, 
(2) Plant machinery, spare 
parte and accessories. 


(8) Consumable sotes, viz.— 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
Claimed are intendod for use 
in the actual process 
manufacture the goods 
naned below :— 


exe (4) Shirta , pants, coata, 
wuoh other tailoring 
goods. 


4 Dimabandhu Khan .. Nutanganj, Burdwan 5 3ظ‎ 7/774۸ cout Sploes, atta, ghee, ropes, vege- 22-6-৮৫. 
23-6 -50. table products, taxable oil, 
Pulses, eather d, poppy 
seeds, ছাট ga, emp 
tin ۰, ile, 
broc 1095 fuller ০ 
leaf tea. 
6 এশা & سس‎ Haldibarl, district Cooch 7 OB/420A, کہ‎ Coal, salt sugar, matches, tea 20-0-60 
and Co. Behar. a এ 22-65-53. and mustard oil, 
6 81658. Panchanan Karfa 157 Netaji Subhas Road, ae 0817/17814, শিশির All kinds of non-ferrous 22-6-56, 
Calcutta. 17-11-49. metals, metal alloy and مہ‎ 
mictal utenslis, tron. 
7 Mesars.S8aflen Bhar& 14/2 Old Chinabazar a 21/789۸, Tailoring requisites .. Clothing and cloth, shoes, 22.0-50 
Bros. Street, Calcutta. 12-11-41. uniform, accessories, alu- 


torches, 10678 La ae 
18899 lanterns, galv 
drums and mugs. 
8 Messrs. LaduramChote- 668 GrandTrunk Rood, -۰ HW /123A, pre Indiagw grocery materials, 22-0-00 
lal. Howrah. 26-09-41. including olls, sugar, cereals 
and pulses. 
0 Shri Madhab Chandra Washabari, P.O. Pillan- - JP/1118A, Cut-trees and logs and A and Bamboo and thatch. 276.56. 
Goswanui. shat, district Jalpalgtri. 17-8-51. B certified by the purchaaing 
dealer to bo required for 
use in any process the "' 
manufacuture of fire-wood 
for sale. ۹ 
10 Sib Chandra Roy Sinha Nabadwip, Burasibdtola, ae EKR/422A, সিল Rice, atta, flour, ৪০ sugar, 28-0-0, 
Nadia. 12-14. mug, cholla, musuri, ma 
khusari arhar, musta 
oll, ৪৪1, rape ofl, wheat, 
187), molasses, vll-cake, ghee, 
paddy. 
Co. 2 سیت‎ outta. hers : ohandise a8 and when 
required for resale. 
12 Messrs. Radheshyam Jarulpur, 24-Parganas 7 PG/1874A Sugar, vegetable ghee and Khat, mori, murki «e 168-06: 
Mistanna Bhandaor, 7 bit ° 1 B certified by the pur- 
chasing dealer to be re- 
quired for use in apy pto- 
ceasin the manufacture of 
“swoetmeats’’ for 8510. 
18 Messrs. Renuka Hosl 24 ۲۶٢ط‎ Ro Buad, au 0/155 Yarn and A, B certified by Hostlery goods, cloth - + 59-86-56. 
; از‎ Caleutts-83. os 21755; the purchasing dealer to be 
required for ave In any 
proceassinthe manufacture 
of “hosiery 615০5” for sale, 
Meesra. Rejoy Stores Konnagore, 0 - জী BP/771A, এন Matches, 10171, country-made 9178-56, 
٦ فو بت اك‎ 22 rope 8 0, ۷ء"‎ 
gonds, biscuit, tea, lozenges, 
ucket, pan, soap, soda 
water, 
16 Meners, Adarsha Dutta Arambagh, Hooghly 7 SP/615A, Goki and A, Ti certified for use এ §1-8-56. 
8-5-47. jo any process In the manu- 
১08 শিব 01 gold and ٣ 
ornamenta. 
16 Sidheawerl Hhandar .. G. T. Road, Rishta, Hoo- es SP/489A, کو‎ 101)1711, sart, piere صمع‎ [٤ ১১ 01-00: 
ghly. 7-1-48, 
66. 
17 Ja ta Krishnonagore Jangipara, Hooghly .. oe SP/465A, 022 Hardloom cloth گنا ےب‎ 
maine 0.٤ Crs = 15-65-47, 
nperative 8 wiety, 
.4ء1‎ 
لے 5 9ك‎ চি 1 8 
Erplanatory notes.—Regarding “goods for use in (B) Plant, machinery, spare parts, 85009880216 
manvfactnre or in the execution of contracts’ the and 00080791016 stores. 090 
following Code letters have been used to indicate (C) Building or plumbing materials 9 
the meanings noted against each :— fixtures required for construction, fitting 


(A) Other raw materials. out or repair of any building. 


Part 41 
-+-5:87্ট্ স্টল 


No. 63C.T.—6th July 1956.—In pursuance of 
the provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 27A of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, it is notified for 
general information that the following declara- 
tion forms have teen reported to be lost, destroy- 
ed or atolen from the custody of the dealers to 
whom these declaration forms were issued and are 
invalid for the purpose of the Bengal Finance 
না Tax) Act, 1941, and Bengal Sales Tax 
Rules :— 


Serial No. of the doclaration Name, address and registration 
forme reported to be lost, — certificate No. of the regiatered 
destroyed or stolon. dealer to whom issued and 

from whom lost, destroyed 
or stolen. 


(1) (2)° 


]. A/3-447358 to A/3-447359 Indian Aluminium Co., Ltd., 
31 Chowringhee Road, Cal- 
cutta. BH/245B. 


9, 4816-131984 to A/5-132000 Messrs. Darjeeling Tea Chin- 
chona Association, Ltd., 
4 Fairlie Place, Calcutta. 
LR/793A. 


9. A{3-973544 to A/3-973585 Mossrs. Pashok Tea Co., Ltd., 
4 Fairlie Place, Calcutta, 
1,4. 


4, 81460792096 to A/4-072080 Mesers. Pahr. mish Tea Asso- 
ciation, Ltd., 4 Fairlie Place, 
Calcutta. 18179۸. 


§. A/4-697818 to A/4-697833 Messrs. New Tarai Association, 
Ltd., 4 Fairlie Place, Calcutta, 
LH/796A. 


6. A/1-662760 to A/1-562754 71995, Hindusthan Jute Dealers 
Private, Ltd., 5 Clive Row, 
Calcutta. LR/2244A. 


7, ۸-80 -» Messrs. Popular Pharmacy, 
Puratuli, Malda. ML/293A. 


A. C. ROY, Commissioner. 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 


CORRIGENDUM 


No, 5829/M.2C-14/56.—6th July 1956.—In 
notification No. 6727/M.2C-14/56, dated the 2nd 
July 1956, published in the extraordinary issue of 
the Calcutta Gazette, Part I, of the 810 July 1956, 
for the word ‘‘of’’ occurring in the fourth line of 
rule 1 of the Schedule substitute a ‘‘comma’’. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDIJAN, Jt. Secy. 


MEDICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
DEPARTMENT 


Medical 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Murshidabad.—No. Medl./5193/D.1I.S. /5A-17/ 
90.) July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
reemploy Dr. 8. [. Chaudhuri in the post of 
Civil Surgeon, Murshidabad, in the cadre of 
the West Bengul Higher Medical and Health 
Service (rade [1) held by him prior 60 retire- 
ment for a period of six months with effect from 


the 10th May 1956, 
Calcutta.—No. Medl./5230/D.I1.S. / IN-25 /56.— 


Mth July 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to grant Shri Nityananda Sarma, M.A, 
of the West Bengal General Service, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2775 


Secretary, Seth Sukhlall Karnani Memo- 
rial Hospital, Cualeutta, earned leave for 
sixty days with effert from Ist May 1956 under 
rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules 
(Part 1) in extension of the leave already grant- 
ed to him in notification No. Med]. /2326/D.H.S. / 
IN-37/56, dated 28th March 1956. 


Calcutta.—No. Med]. /5231/D.H.S./1N- 


25 /66.—bHth July 1966.—The Governor 
was pleased to appoint Shri Lakshmi 
Kanta Panda, Head (Clerk, Seth Sukhlall 
Karnani Memorial Hospital, Calcutta, tem- 


porurily to act as Secretary of the same inetitu- 
tion in the West Bengal General Service for the 
iperiod from 2nd April 1956 to 29th June 1956, 
vice Shri N. Sarma, granted leave. 


By order of the Governor 


N. C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


Public Health 


NOTIFICATION 


Darjeeling.—No. P.H. [2476 / H-19/55.—5th 
Tuly 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoimt 
Dr. Tarini Prasad Chatterjea, B.Sc., M.B.BS., 
[).1১.11- son of late B. K. Chatterjea, as a Sub- 
divisional Health Officer in the West Bengal 
Medical and Health Service on probation and to 
post him to the Kurseong subdivision in the dis- 
trict of Darjeeling with effect from the date on 
which he joins the post. 


This cancels this department 
a P.H./1776/H-19/65, dated the 
56. 


notification 


15th May 


By order of the Governor 
N. ©. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


MEDICAL COUNCIL OF INDIA ELECTION 
Office of the West Bengal Medical Council 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 2032-C.—llth July 1956.—In _ pur- 
suance of paragraph (2) of the orders regulating 
election of a member, under clause (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1983 (Act XXVIT of 1933), it 2৪ 
hereby notified for general information that the 
undermentioned gentlemen have heen 7۶ 
nominated for the election announced in Govern- 
ment of West Bengal, Medical and Public Health 
Department (Medical), notification No, Medl.952 
8M-5/55, dated the 9th February 1956;— 


(1) Dr. Abodh Kumar Sinha. 
(2) Dr. Prabodh Kumar Guha. 
(3) Dr. Prasanta Kumur Ghosh. 


11. GANGULI, 
Returning Oflicer. 


সেচ ও জলপথ বিভাগ । 
IRRIGATION AND WATERWAYS 
DEPARTMENT 
লংস্থা। 
Establishment 
প্রজাপনাহলণ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 
নং ৭৪আই.ই।--২৮এ জুন ১৯৫৬।--পাঁশ্চমবঞ্গা Bors fawaranty 
প্রথম খন্ডের ১৬৮৫৯) ধারানুসারে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ নদশী গবেষণাগারের 
আঁধকর্তা 51575 এন, কে, বসুকে ১৯৫৬ সালের ১লা সেপ্টেম্বর হইতে 
Tor দিনের আর্জত ছুটি মজুর ٭‎ ۱ 
রাজাপালের আদেশানৃসার়ে, 
۴, জেন, 
সাঁচব। 


2776 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


[Part] 


92ش جح غم م ج تم جم مس يشتے-ے-م حر سم سج جج جس مج رت عجحہ পারাপার a‏ 


No. 74].10. 28th June 1956.-—The Governor is 
pleased to allow Dr. N. K. Bose, Director, River 
Research Institute, West Bengal, eurned leave 


for thirty days wilh effect from the Ist September 
1956 under rule 168(i) of the West Bengal Service 


Rules, Part ٠ 


No, 75.—rd July 1966.—The Governor is 
pleased to sanction the following until further 
orders سے‎ 


(1) The creation of a temporary Irrigation 
sulxlivision to be designated as the Sila- 
bati subdivision under the Bankura 
Irrigation Division of the Kangsabati 


Cirele with headquarters at Bankura, dis- 


trict Bankura, with effect from the actual 
date of creation. 


(ii) The shifting of the headquarters— 


(a) of the temporary Kangsabati Circle of the 
Irrigation and Waterways Directorate 
from Suri, district Birbhum, ٥ 
Bankura, district Bankura, 


(b) of the temporary Kangsahati Project TDivi- 
sion of the Kangsabati Circle from 
Calcutta to Bankura, district Bankura, 
and 


(c) of the Kangsabati Mechanical subdivision 
No. I under the Kangsabati Mechani- 
cal Division of the Kangsabati Circle, 
Suri, district Birbhum, to Bankura, 
district Bankura, with effect from the 
uctual date of their shifting. 

(iii) The renaming of the temporary Kangsa- 
bati Project Division of the Kangsabati 
Circle as the Kangsabati Left Bank 
Division with effect from the date of this 
notification. 


No. 80.—6th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint the following persons as tempo- 
rary Asgistant Engineers under the Directorate of 
Irrigation and Waterways for a period of three 
months with effect from the dates on which they 
join their appointments : — 

(1) Shri Murari Mohan Mukherjee, B.E., son of 
late Shyama Mohan Mukherjee. 

(2) Shri Sunil Chandra Nandi, 13.1. 
Shri Panchu Gopal Nandi. 

(3) Shri Prodyot Kumar Das, B.Sc., B.E., son 
of Shri Sachindra Nath Das. 


(4) Shri Nirod Kanta Bhakta, B.E., 
late Rajendra Chandra Bhakta. 


son 01 


son of 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, Secy. 


No. 76.—3rd July 1956.—The Governor was 
pleased to extend the period of appointment, on 
Contract, of Shri Priya Krishna Bhattacharyya, 
B.Sc. (Engg.-Banaras), as a temporaty Hixecutive 
Engineer under the Irrigation and Waterways 
Department, Government of West Bengal, for a 
further period of three years with effect from the 
16th April 1956. 


No. 77.—3rd July 1956.—Shri Pravat Kumar 
De, officiating Executive Engineer, Investigation 
Division No. II, under the North Bengal Circle, 
ia transferred in the interest of public service 
and appointed to act as Additional Executive 
Engineer, Designs Division under the Greater 
Calcutta Drainage Cirele, until further orders 
tice Shri Nirode Kumar (thosh appointed to act as 
Superintending Engineer, (treater Calcutta 
Diainage (Circle. 


No, 78.—8rd July 1956.—Shri Sushil Kumar 
Dasgupta, officiating Executive Kngineer, | nvesti- 
gation Division No. 111 under the North Bengal 
Circle, is appointed to hold charge of the Investi- 
gation Division No. 11 under that Circle in 0001. 
tion to his own duties until further orders vice 
Shri Pravat Kumar De, officiating Executive 
Kngineer, transterred. 


No. 79.—3rd July 1956.—The Governor was 
pleased to sanction the abolition of the Kadisala 
subdivision under the Mayurakshi South Canals 
Division with effect from the Ist March 0 
(forenoon). 


No 81.—6th July 1956.—Shri Kanak Bhushan 
Banerjee, officiating Executive Engineer, Bagjola 
Drainage Division under the Greater Calcutta 
Drainage Circle, is appointed to hold charge of the 
Designs Division under that Circle in addition to 
his own duties until further orders vice Shri 
Kamala Kanta Pramanik, officiating Executive 
Engineer, transferred. 


Ry order of the Governor, 


B. K. ADHIKARI, Dy. Secy. 


No. 70A.—18th June 1956.—The orders 1680 
in this department notification No. 100, dated the 
19th November 1955, in so far as they relate to 
the appointment of Shri Asok Basu, B.E., us a 
temporary Assistant Kngineer in the Directorate 
ot Irrigation and Waterways are hereby cancelled. 


By order of the Governor, 
J. C. TALAPATRA, Dy. Secy. 


DIRECTORATE OF IRRIGATION 
AND WATERWAYS 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 58C.1.E.—l4th June 1956.— Shn Sukhada 
Kanta Koy, temporary Assistant Engineer, Sub- 
divisional Officer, Lohapur (Irrigation) Subdivision 
of the Muayurakshi Irrigation Division, was posted 
to hold charge of the Mayurakshi North Bank Sub- 
division No. I of the same Division in addition to 
his own duties with effect from 25th November 
1955, atternoon, until further orders. 


No. 610.1.E.—26th June 1956.—Shri Biswanath 
Pal, temporary Assistant Engineer attached to the 
Drawing Branch of this Directorate, was granted 
earned leave for eight days with effect from ط۵‎ 
February 1956 under rule 168(i) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


No. G3C.1.E. — 29th June 1966. — Shri 
Bishnupada Naru, temporary Assistant [ngineer 
(Mech.), Subdivisional Officer, Mechanical and 
Klectrical Subdivision No. TIT, is {transferred ۷ 
{he interest of public service and posted to hold 
charge of the Kangsabati Mechanical Subdivision 
No. I under Kangsabati Mechanical Division 1111 
further orders. 


No. G40.L6.—29th June 1956.—Shri Chandi 
Charan Mallik, D.h., ]) 7 Assistant 
Engineer, is posted to the Drawing Branch of this 
office until further orders. 


part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTHI, JULY 19, 1956 4111 


০০০০7৮৮৮-৮----------:০৮৮৮৮২-ংল-২7৮757757555577557585557575555়)ব-্্গ‏ ٹژ۔سسسسجسے_ے_ 


No. 65C.1.E.—29th June 1956.—The following 
wmporary Assistant Engineer’ are posted to the 
Jivisions noted against their Tespective 8 
1011] further orders :— 

(1) Shri Subodh Chandra Kar, 3.E.—Kangsa- 

bati Design Division under Kangsabati 


Circle. 

(2) Shri Amarjit Dutt, B.E.—Kangsabati 
Design Division under Kangsabati 
Circle. 


(3) Shri Shilananda Adhikari, B.Se., B.E.— 
Damodar Canal Division under Western 
ر٠۰‎ 

(4) Shri Nirmal Kumar Sinha, B.E.—Cooch 
Behar Construction Division under North 
Bengal Circle. 

(5) Shri Saurendra Nath Sarkar, B.Sc., B.E.— 
Mayurakshi Headquarters Division under 
Mayurakshi Canal Circle. 

(6) Shri Bibhuti Bhusan Bhowmick, 13,105 
West Sunderbans Division under Eastern 


Circle. 

Shri. Budal Kumar Jas (iupta—West‏ رپ 
Midnapore J)ivision under Western‏ 
Circle.‏ 


I. B. DE, Chief Engineer. 


COTTAGE AND SMALL-SCALE 
INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 
No. ا موا ا5ا‎ জান July 1956.— 


The Governor ia pleased to appoint Shri Manilal 
Banerjee, B.A., Regional National Savings 
01067, Ministry of Finance, Government of 
India, to act as Officer on Special Duty (Hand- 
looms) under the Directorate of Industries, West 
engal, temporarily for a period wp to 31st July 
1956 with effect from the date on which he takes 
over charge, 


By order of the Governor, 
A. MITRA, Secy. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 
RESOLUTION No. 2986Dis. /D/5B-7/56. 
Calcutta, the 11th July 1956. 


The Governor is pleased to constitute with the 
widermentioned personnel u Regional Allocation 
Committee, which will be responsible for the allot- 
ment of tenements built under the Industrial 
Housing—Shyamnagar Scheme :— 

(1) Subdivisional Officer, Barrackpore—Chair- 

man. 

(2) Kxeoutive Engineer, Housing Construction 

Division No. 1, Anderson House, Alipore 
—BSecretary. 


(3) Inspector of Factories, 
Member. 


(4) Shri Monoranjan (thosal, Manager, Shri 


Barrackpore— 


Annapurna Cotton Mills 14077 Shyam- 
nagaur—M ember. 
(5) Dr. (Mrs.) Maitreyee Bose, M..A., 3 


Gangadhar Banerjee Lune—Member. 

(6) Shri Phanindra Nath Mukherjee, M.L.A., 
Mina Cinema Buildings, Panihati— 
Member. 


2 The functions of the Committee will be— 


(1) to convene meetings of the Committee at a 
place and time to be fixed in consultation 
with the Chairman and submit the appli- 
cations received in response to the adver- 
tisement for letting out the tenements 
issued by the Department of Housing of 
this Government. The Committee will 
consider the individual applications and 
draw up a list of candidates to whom the 
tencments, in their opinion, may be 
allotted. The list should be drawn up in 
order of preference and the number of 
candidates included in the list should be 
26 per cent. in exeess of the total number 
of tenements available for allotment. 


(11) In making the selection the Committee 
should take into consideration the follow- 
Ing factors as also such other factors as 
they consider necessary— 


(a) the size of the tamily of the candidate. 
(b) Monthly wages of the person. 


(c) Distance of the factory in which he works 
from the quarters to be allotted. 


(d) Recommendation of the employer. 


(iii) The proceedings of the meetings of the 
Committee together with the 46 
mentioned above and all the applications 
will thereafter be submitted by the 
Secretary to the Department of Housing 
of this Government. 


Allotment of tenements to individual workers 
will then be made by the Department of Housing 
on the basis of the recommendations of the Com- 
mittee. Government reserve the right to override 
the recommendations of the Committee in any 
individual case. 


Order. 


OrvereED that the above Resolution be published 
in the Calcutta Gazette, and copies thereof be 
forwarded to the Chairman and members of the 
Committee. 


OrneEreD also that a copy of the Resolution be 
forwarded to other departments of this Govern- 
ment and the Directorate of Housing. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Seoy. 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 3495Lab. /G/3A-43/55.—6th July 1956.— 


In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(1: of section 13 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952), the Governor 1s 
pleased to appoint Shri D. Chakraborty to be 
Inspector for the whole of the State of West 
Bengal for the purposes of the said Act and of any 
scheme framed thereunder, in relation to factories 
other thin those engaged in o controlled industry 
or in an industry connected with a mine or an oil- 
field, with effect from the 16th April 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
[). S. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2778 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


eGR ৯ TS 
متس تی‎ 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Calcutta.—No. 117101,.A.—2nd July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 1s 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for opening out 
the GU ft. alignment joining Harish Mukherjee 
Road with Kah Temple Road in ward No. 66 (old 
No. 29) of the Caleulta Municipality in the ety 
of Calcutta, it is hereby notified that five pieces 
of land as described in Blocks I to V below, and 
altogether measuring, more or less, 0.5806 of an 
acre, are likely to be meeded for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the expense of the Corporation 
of Caleutta, within the aforesaid ward No. 66 (old 
No. 23), of the Calcutta Municipality in the city 
of Calcutta: سے‎ 


Block I—Premises Nos. 18, 18/1 and portion of 
19, Mahim Halder Street and portions of premises 
Nos. 27A and 27B, Kalidas Patitundi Lane, 
bounded on the— 

North—-By the Corporation acquired land and 

Kalidas Patitundi Lane, 

Kast—By the remainnig portions of premises 
Nos. 2773, 27A, Kalidas Patitundi Lane and 
19, Mahim [Halder Street, 

South—By Mahim Halder Street, 


West— By Kalidag Patitundi Lane. 


Block II]—Premises No. 26, Halderpara Road 
and portions of premises Nos, 26/1, 27/13, 27, 
27118, Halderpara Road and Nos. 38/2, 9941 
201, 39C and 38, Mahim Halder Street, bounded 
on the— 

North—By Mahim Halder Street, 

East—By the remaining portions of premises 
Nos. 38, 39A, 3973, 9000 and 38/2, Mahim 
Halder Street and 27/1A, 27 and 2/1, 
Halderpara Road and premises No. 27/5, 
Halderpara Road, 

South—By Halderpara Road, 

West—By the remaining portion of preimisea 
No. 29/1, Halderpara Road and premises 
Nos. 25/1/8, 25/1/1, Walderpara Rond 
nnd the Corporation acquired land, 


Block 1]1—Portion of premises No. 19, Halder- 
para Ruad, bounded on the— 
North, East and South—By the Corporation 
acquired land, 


Weat—By the remaining portion of premises 
No. 19, Halderpara Road. 


Block TV—Premises Nos. 39/1 and 42, Mahim 
Halder. Street and portion of premises No. 42/1, 
Mahim Halder Street, bounded on the— 

North—By Mahim Halder Street, 

East and South—By the Corporation acquired 
land and premises No, 43B, Mahim Halder 
Street, 

West—By premises Nos. 438. 40 and the 
remaining portion of 42/1, Mahim Halder 


Street. 


Block V—Portion of premises No. 15, Kalidas 
Patitundi Lane, hounded on the— 
North, East and South—By the Corporation 
acquired land, 


West—By the remaining portion of premtses 
No. 165, Kalidas Patitund: Lane. 


This notification is made, under the* provisions 


of section 4 of Act T of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


| Par? ] 


সাজার 
سوچ ےج حححمجد‎ 


Dee ES, 


A plan of the Jand may be inspected in the flice 
of the Serond Land Acquisition Collector at 
No. 5, Bankshall Street, Culeutta, 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore. 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking; with their servants and workmen, 0 
enter upon and survey the land and do all othe; 
ucts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person mterested in the ahove land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which publi 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Second Land Acquisition Collector, at 
No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


Midnapore.—No, 117121,.A.(P.W.).—2nd July 
1956. Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
not being a purpose of the Union, namely, for silt 
clearance of Dunia Khal (Section from dalpni, 
Part I, to Muradpur) in the villages of Jalpuai, 
Part T, Mangalchar, Chakpatna, Tentulbari, Ray- 
pur, Chiranjibpur, Dibakarpur, Nankarchak, 
Habichak, Muradpur, jurisdiction list Nos. 111, 
114, 113, 120, 112, 122, 104, = 103, 
102 and 198, respectively, thana Nandi- 
gram, pargana Mahisadal,_ district Midna- 
pore, it 1s hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising cadastral] plots as detailed below aud 
measuring, more or less, 105.00 acres, is likely to 
be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid villages ot 
Jalpai, Part I, Mangalchar, Chakpatna, Tentul- 
hari, Raypur, Chiranjibpur, Dibakarpur, Nankar- 
chak, Habichak, Muradpur. 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, Midnapore. 


In exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorive 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, ٥۸ 
euter upon and survey the land and do all othe 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereef, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which publi 
notice of ihe substance of this notification 78 1151) 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector. 


DISTRICT MIDNAPORE 
Thana Nandigram 


Village Jalpai, Port ,ا‎ jurisdiction list No. 111 


Cadastral survey plots in full—1429, 1485, 1609, 
1646, 1539, 1540 and 1541. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—8h2, 853, 896, 
902, 903, 904, 912, 915, 916, 917, 918, 919, 927, 
935, 934, 935, 936, 937, 1377, 1390, 1991, 1998, 
1409, 1420, 1421, 1426, 1427, 1430, 1452, 1478, 
1470), 1482, 1486 and 1538. 


Village Mangalchar, jurisdiction list No, 114. 


Cadastral survey plots in full--1, 70, 162, 160, 
16%, 164 and 165, 


‘Indastral survey plots in part—2, 3, 4, 8, 9: 
11, 13, 16, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 3h, 36, 38. 
39, 68, 69, 71, 72, 7h, 79, 106, 107, 153, 164, 158, 
159, 161, 162, 166, 101, 1192, 1194 and 1199, 


Village Chokpatna, jurisdiction list No. 115. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—19, 20, 211, 215 
285, 287, 288, 300, 346, 347, 350, 409, 464, 467, 
469, 470 and 471. 


Part 1] 1'111: CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2779 

ee 
(‘adastial survey plots in part—t1L, 15, 18, 21, 1468, 1465, 1466, 1467, 1469, 1470, 1471, 1621, 
12h, 126, 127, 208, 209, 210, 213, 214, 215, 216, 152, 1628, 1629, 1630, ,ا151‎ 1538, 1534, 1535, 
08], 232, 238, 245, 246, 287, 318, 242, 243, 246, 21830, 2140, 2220, 2224, 2222, 2225, 2226, 2228, 
১4, 250, 251, 286, 280, 290, 201, 292, 203, 294, 2230, 22K, 2202, 2485) 2263, L264, 22605, 2268, 
995, 296, 297, 299, 309, 310, 211, 825, 348, 349, 2260, 2270, 2276, 2277, 2878, 2279, 2280, 2281, 
351, 362, 358, 362, 364, 383, 384, 386, 387, 388, 2283, 2284, 2285, 2288, 2201, 2292, 2203, 2290, 
10), 409, 410, 411, 426, 427, 428, 429, 490, 436, 2296, 2207, 2208, 2299, 2438, 2647, 2550, 1۰ 
439, 455, 456, 458, 462, 465, 466, 468, 478, 29603, 2563, 2564, 2565, 2666, 2567, 2572 and 2573. 


438, و2‎ ঠ 

489, 490 and 491. 
Village Tentulbari, jurisdiction list No. 120. 
(adastral survey plots in full--1, 2 and 6534, 


Cadastral survey plots in part—3, 4, 7, U4, 
115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 124, 126, 151, 
132, 133, 180, 182, 184 and 185. 


Village Raypur, jurisdiction list No 112. 


Cadastral survey plots in jull—1006, 1062, 1063 
and 1064. ° 


Cadastral survey plots in part—886, 889, 0(۰ 
891, 892, 898 899, 904, 905, 909, 916, 917, 922, 
928, 926, 927, 928, 932, 937, 938, 939, 967, 963, 
909, 970, 971, 974, 0991, 992, 994, 994, 997, 998, 
1001, 1002, 1003, 1005, 1007, 1008, 1010, 1011, 
1012, 1013, 1014, 1015, 1018, 1024, 1025, 1028, 
1030, 1031, 1082, 1038, 1084, 1085, 1052 and 105-5. 


Village Chiranjibpur, jurisdiction list No. 122. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—209, 266, 267, 
208) 269, 211, 272, 274, 362, 363, 364, 427 and 
4, 


Cadastral survey plots in part—92, 93১ 100, 101, 
102, 106, 107, 108, 114, 178, 174, 175, 184, 185, 
189, 260, 261, 262, 2638, 264, 265, 274, 275, 279, 
280, 281, 284, 292, 298, 299, 302, 360, 361, 364, 
384, 392, 393, 394, 406, 407, 408, 426, 428, 429, 
448, 439, 440, 442, 443, 444, 445 and 446. 


Village Dibakarpur, jurisdiction list No. 104. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—1092, 1226, 1251, 
1797, 1823, 1824, 1825 and 2193. 


Cadastral 1068, 


1091, 


1207, 


1429, 
1711, 
1802, 
1817, 
1842, 
1881, 
1968, 
1979, 


survey plots in part—1066, 


1094, 1096, 1202, 
, 1226, 1229, 


, 1972, 
2026 and 219 


2, 1203, 


1686, 
1794, 
1805, 1807, 
1826, 
1846, 
1890, 
1973, 
5. 


1204, 


1205, 
1272, 
1689, 
1798, 
1817, 
1839, 
1879, 
1953. 
1976, 


Village Nankarchak, jurisdiction list No. 103. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—684 and 585. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—243, 408, 409, 
423, 477, 478, 579, 582, 583, 586, 587, 588, 589, 
598, 0060, 607, 654 and 674. 
Village Habichak, jurisdiction list No. 102. 
19, survey. plots in full—1088, 1111 and 


Cadastral survey plots in part—603, 675, 676, 


677, 678, 679, 688, 689, 696, 1 
1066, 1078, 1079, 1082, 
1090, 1093, 1102, 1103, 
1110, 1118, 1114, 1121, 


065, 
108), 
1109, 
1177, 


480, 481, 482, 526, 526, 527, 


1117 and 1179, 


Village Muradpur, jurisdiction list No. 128. 
Cadastral survey plots in full-—66, 400, 401, 


061, 
1085, 
1104; 
11:22, 


1062, 


1064, 


1086, 1087, 


1106, 
1172, 


1107, 
1173, 


1468, 2223, 2224, 


200 2970, 2571, 2574, 2674, 2576, 2477, 7 8, 
4001, 2608 and 2611. 


,25 ,10 ,9 ,6 )مم survey plots in‏ ۳01 0001ی 
TI,‏ ,70 ,69 ,68 ,67 ,65 ,64 ,56 ,52 ,29 ,28 ,27 ,6“ 


1২, 82, 83, 84, 8h, 366, 3871, 872. 876, 877, 8, 
899, 402, 403, 404, 406, 407, 408, 409, 422, 428, 
424, 495, 426, 427, 460, 471, 472, 47:1, 475, 476, 
477, 478, 479, 483, ANZ, S28, S82, ABH, ART, SAS, 
875, 576, 577, 1280, 1290, 1291, 1292, 1296, 1315, 


Hooghly.—No. 11784L.A.—-3rd July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for au public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, uamely, tor the hostel 
building of the Hooghly Women’s College in the 
village of Kulhanda, jurisdiction jist No. 18, 
thana Chinsurah, pargena  Arsha, district 
Hooghly, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising cadastral plot Nos, 1014 and 1015 and 
portion of cadastral plot No. 1018, and measur- 
ing, more or less, ().3877 acres, 15 likely to be 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose, partly at 
the public expense and partly at the expense of. 
the শিট Women’s ا‎ within the afore- 
said village of Kulihanda. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Land Acquisition Collector, Hooghly. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
snid section, the (iovernor is pleased to authorise 
the officera for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workinen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Hooghly. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 11744L.A.(P.W.).—Jrd 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel 
the notice No. 33927,.A.(P.W.), dated the 28th 
April 1949, under section 4(1) of the West Bengal 
Tand (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act IT of 1948), published at page 
758, Part I of the “Calcutta Gaszette” of the 5th 
May 1949, in respect of the proposed acquisition 
of more or less 9.70 acres of land for the purpose 
of providing facilities for transport and com- 
munication, namely, for the construction 01 
0 to 0 miles of the Balurghat-Kumarganj Road 
in the villages of Dakshin-Chakbhabani, juris- 
diction list No. 106, Dakra, jurisdiction 1281 
No. 105, Bara-Raghunathpur, jurisdiction list 
No. 189, IIajipur, jurisdiction list No. 140, 
Mahinagar, jurisdiction list No. 160, Varanpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 151, Atoir, jurisdiction 
list No. 162, Baidyapur, jurisdiction list No. 178 
and Pollapara, jurisdiction list No. 179, 10116 
station Balurghat, district West Dinajpur. 


Hooghly.—No. 119160.A.—6th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purpose of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government py notificntion No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated 4th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of Article 258 of the 


Yonatitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose 
heing a purpose of the Union, namely, for con- 
version of Hind Motor Halt Flag Station in thg, 
villages of Kotrang and Bhadrakali, jurisdiction 
list Noa. 8 and 9, respectively, thana Uttarpnra, 
district ITeoghly, it is hereby notified that a 


2780 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


س-د سج ت-جححج ٤ے‏ ج সস পা ———————E———————‏ 


district Hooghly, it is hereby notified that a piece 
of land comprising cadastral survey’ plot Nos. 7 
and 1140 and parts of cadastral survey اما‎ 
Nos. 363, 448, 449, 450, 451, 505, 506, 604, 
702, 1138, 1134, 1135, 1136, 1198, 1139, 1141, 
1142, 1148 and 1144 of village Kotrang and parts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 441, 442 and 701 ১ 
village Bhadrakali and measuring, more or 
less, 7.61 acres, is likely to be needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesuid villages of Kotrang and 
Bhadrakali. 


This notification ig made, under the provi- 
sions of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1894, read with the said notification, to all whom 
it may concern. 


A plan of the lund may be inspected 2] the 
0706 of the Land Acquisition Collector, Hooghly. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, rend with the said notification, the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen to enter upon and 
survey the land and do all other acts required 
or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the 
above land as is not waste or arable who has 
any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of the notification is 
given in the locality, file an objection in writing 
before the Collector of Hooghly. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, J of 1894, 
us amended by Act XXXVIII of 1928, the Gov- 
ernor is pleased {o direct that the provisions of 
section 5A of the Act shall not apply to the waste 
and arable portion of land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No., 12060L.A.—11th July 1956.— 
To exercise of the powera conferred hy section 
48(1) of the Land Acquisition Act I, of 1894, the 
Governor is pleased to withdraw from the acqui- 
sition of pieces of land measuring more or less .73 
of gn acre und comprising cadustral survey plots 
as detailed below out of 3.95 acres of land, covered 
by declaration No. 224701,.A. dated 18th Novem- 
ber 1955, published at pages 4795-4796, Part 1 
of the Caleutta Gazette of the 181 December 1955, 
and required by the Damodar Valley Corporation 
for the purpose of excavation of Distributary 
of Durgapur Branch Canal صا‎ connertion 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
district of Burdwan :— 


DISTRICT BURDWAN. 
Police-station Ausgram, 
Village Chandradwip, jurisdiction list No. 124. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—84, 105, 108, 
and 109. 


ERRATA 
Bankura,—No. 117400.A.(P.W.).—3rd 7٤ 
1956.—In line 9 of notification No, 5094- 


1.A.(P.W.), dated the 6th April 1954, under 
section 491) of the Land Acquisition Act I of 
1894, published at mage 1218, Part I of the 
“Caleutin Gazette” of the 22nd idem. relating 
to the diversion of a cxnal in connection with the 


Chenchuria-Simlapal Road in the district of 
Bankura; 


Read "2,22 acres’ for “2.80 acres”. 


٦ 


Burdwan.—No. 120561..A.—1lth July 1900. 
In notification No. 224681..A., dated 0176 
1461) November 1955, under section 4 of the Land 
Acquisition Act 1, of 1894, published at page 
2142(b), Part I of the Calcutta Cazctte, Hwtro- 
atdtnary of the 19th idem in respect of the acqu- 
sition of land required by the Damodar Valley 
Corporation for Distributary A of Durgapur 
Branch Canal in connection with the Damodar 
Flood Control Project in the district of Burdwan— 


Read “Chainage 5 to rhainage 25” im place of 
“Chainage 0.5 to chaiage 25” iu line ا‎ 


Burdwan.—No. 12092],.A.—llth July 1956— 
In notification No. 190681,A., dated — the 
2131) September 1955, undor section 4 of the Land 
Acquisition Act I, of 1894, published at page 
1678, Part I of the Caleutta Gazette, 27217007411 
nary of the same date in respet of the , 0 939 
of land required by the Damodar Valley Corpora- 
tion for the excavation of Distributary 1۱ 
from chainage 205 to chainage 260 in connection 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
district of Burdwan— 


Read. “1.76 acres’' for ‘1.80 acres” in line 12, 


Read “1781, 1782, 1784" in place of “1791 to 
1734” in line 20. 


NOTICES. 


Birbhum.—No. 116961.A.—2nd July 1096. 
Whereas 1.12 acres, more or less, of land situate 
in or near the village of Fatepur described below 
have been requisitioned under sub-section (1) of 
section 8 of the West Bengal Land (Requisition 
and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the person 
authorised under the said section 3(1) for 11৫ 
purpose of maintaining swpplies and services 
essential to the life of the community, namely, for 
the construction of office and staff quarters of the 
West Bengal State Electricity Board, 


Now, therefore, notcie is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provision of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal! 
Tand (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Beneal Act IT of 1948), to all whom ]1 


may concern, 


A plan of the land may he inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Birbhum. 


oo 


Description of the land 


Thana Mayureswar 


Village Fatepur, jurisdiction list No. 26 


Cadastral survey plot No. 1689 and parts of, 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 1684, 1686, 1688, 
1690 and 1691. 


Birbhum.—No. 11700L.A.—2nd July 1956.— 
Whereas 0.70 of an acre, more or less, of land situ- 
ate in or near the village of Makrampur described 
in or near the village of Makrampur deacrbed 
below has been requisitioned under sub-section 
(1) of section 3 of the West Bengal Land (Requisl- 
tiom) Act, 1948, by the person authorised under 
the said section 3(1) for the purpose of maintain- 
ing supplies and services essentin] to the life of 
the community, namely for installation of a If. T. 
electrical sub-station at Bolpur; 


Now, therefore, notice js hereby given that i 
pursuance of section 4 of the suid Act, the QGov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for 0 
public purpose aa sforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Lan‘ 


[101 1] 


a ER WET প্র 
س کے کش سے سے ہج ےو 6سیڑس_ژسسسے‎ 


۳ 


(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Hengal Act IL of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
afiwe 01 the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land 
DISTRICT BIRBHUM. 


Thana Bolpur 
Village Makrampur, jurisdiction list No. 97, 
Part of cadastral survey plot No. 629. 


Maida. —No lI708.A.—2nd July 1956.— 

Whereas 0.211 acre, more or less, of land situate 
ia or near the village of Pirojpur described below, 
hay been requisitioned under sub-section (1) of 
ونم‎ 8 of the West Bengal Land (Requisition 
and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the person author- 
1১৫ aie the suid section J(1) for the purpose of 
providing. facilities for transport and communi- 
cation, namely, for the construction of a link 
rout at Singatala; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that im 
puysuance of section 4 of the said Act, the Gov- 
erhor acquires such land being required for a 
pullic punpose as aforesaid, 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (1a) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
land (Requisition und Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act 11 of 1948), to all whom it 
may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special T.aud Acquisition Officer, 
Malda. 


Description of land 
Mousa Pirejepur, jurisdiction list No. 69, police- 
station نس‎ Basar, district ۸۰ 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1017, 
1040 and 1060. 


1045, 


Murshidabad.—No. LI746L.A.(2.W.).—3rd 
July 1956.—Whereas 6.28 acres, more or less, of 
land situate in or near the villages of Salinda 
and Kandra described below have been امج‎ 
tioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948, by the person authorised under the said 
section 3(1) for the purpose of providing tacalities 
for transport and communication, namely, for 
the construction of  Bharatpur-Salar village 
Road, mile No, 6. 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
Pursuance of section 4 of the said Act, the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
publie purpose as aforesaid, 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 ef the West Bengal 
Tand (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(Wost Pengal Act TT of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land way be inspected in the 


of the Land Acquisition Officer. Murshida-‏ پر 
ad,‏ 


Description of the land 


Mauza Salinda, jurisdiction list No, 122, police- 
station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 
Cadastral survey plot in full-—4733. 
Cadnstral survey plots in part—4065, 4222, 
13১), $299, 4227, 4901۸, 47, ,4ملاا‎ 4204, 4274, 
1276, $277, 4281, 4285, 4286, 4287, 4288, 
4289, 4209, 4300, 4201 and 4308. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 27181 


পলা পিল আত পাত‏ حتف سو سسلی 
শি‏ 


Mauza Kandra, jurisdiction list No. 114, puolice- 
station Bharatpur, district SMurshidabad. 


full—814, 1665, 


Cadastral survey 
1608 and 3436. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—768, 790, 791, 
792, 79%, 800, 801) 802, 805, 804, 805, 810, 811, 
$16, 813, 815, 80, 851, 832, 833, 842, 843, 853, 
856, 857, 858, $59, 864, 864, 976, ۷۲۲, 978, ر9‎ 
980, 1056, 1067, 1058, 1059, 1060, 1061, 1062, 
1075, 1367, 1871, 1873, 1374, 1875, 1554, 1656, 
1657, 1558, 1560, 1604, 1606, 1007, 1609, 1696, 
L700 and 1704. 


plota in 


Midnapore.—No. 11748L.A.(P.W.).—3rd July 
1956.—Whereas 3.84 acres, more or less, of land 
situate in or near the village of Amlasuli des- 
cribed below have been requisitioned under sub- 
section (1) of section :) of the West Beugal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the 
person 90000119901 under the said section 3(1) Tor 
{he purpose of providing facilities for irrigation 
and drainage, nanely, for the extension of Right 
Bank Canal of Aulia Reservoir Scheme at 
Garbetta. 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given in 
pursuance of section 4 of the suid Act, the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sul-section (19) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition ard Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it 


may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the’ 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Midnapore. 


Description of the land 


Village Amlasuli, jurisdiction list No. 179, 
police-station Garbetta, district Midnapore. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1276, 1277, 
910, 418, 419, 1296. 1297, 411, 412, 415, 416, 
417, 407, 432, 433, 652, 465, 464, 640, 34, 410, 
653, 426, 431, 649, 657, 429. 430, 450, 451, 
626, 452, 455, 456, 457, 458, 406, 32, 459, 463, 
655, 651, 625 and 443, 


DECLARATIONS, 


24-Parganas.— No. 117321.A.—3rd July 1956. 
—Whereos the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Jiand Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the murposes of the Union have heen entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No, 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
{jJovernment of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (i) of article 258 of the Con- 
stitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the purpose connected 
with the Defence of India in the village of Atpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 16, thana Jagaddal, pargana 
Saidpur, district 24-Parganas, i is hereby 
declared that a piece of land comprising portion of 
cadastral plot No. 1110 and measuring, more or 
less, 2.54 acres, is needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense with the aforesaid 
village of Atpur. 


This declnration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Art, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, 10) 
all whom it may concern, 


A omlan of the land may he inapected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Alipore, 24-Parganas, as well as in the office of 
the Tands Hiring and Disposal Services, Kasten 
Command, 1 Sterndale Rond, Alipore, Caleutta-27. 


2782 THE 04150017114 GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


Bankura.—No. 117661..A.(P.W.).—8rd July 
1956.—Whiereas the (tovernor is satisfied that 
bupplementary land is needed for a public purpose, 
not being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 
the construction of the main canal in connection 
with the Berai Irrigation Scheme, it is hereby 
declared that for the above purpose, pieces of 
land altogether measuring, more or less, 0.88 of 
an acre and comprising cadastral plots as detail- 
ed below are needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense im the district of 
Bankura :— 


DISTRICT BANKURA 


Kushte, 
No. 186. 


Cadastral plots in part—557, 579, 580, 581, 808. 


Thana Onda, village jurisdiction list 


Thana Onda, village Khamarbere, jurisdiction list 
N ¢ 


0. 227, 
Cadastral plot in part—2883. 
Thana Onda, villaye Damodarbati, jurisdiction 
list No. 228. 
Cadastral plots in part—271, 735, 737, 767, 
769, ۰ 
Thana Onda, village Puncha, 
No. 239. 
Cadastral plot in part—1004. 


jurisdiction 1191 


ere سا‎ 


Thana Onda, village Chhinpur, jurisdiction 6٤ 
No. 243. 


Cadastral plots in part—447, 572, 575, 577, 578, 
151. 


Thana Onda, village Mauchura, jurisdiction list 
No. 242 


Cadastral plot in part—962. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. i 


A plan of the laud may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of Bankura. 


Burdwan,—No. 11942L.A.—6th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for « public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base No. 268A 
of Kalipahari-Burdwan section 132 K.V. Trans- 
mission line in connection with the promotion 
and operation of schemes for the generation, 
tranBmission and distribution of electric energy 
in the village of Darbarpur, jurisdiction 1181 
No. 105, thana Galsi, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby declared that a piece of land comprising 
part of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1059 and 1061 
and measuring more or less, .0206 of an acre, is 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation within 
the aforesaid village of Darbarpur. 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerdls as it may he necessary to dig or 
carry away, or use in the construction of the 
work for the purpose of which the land is being 
acquired, are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act T of 1894, and section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIIT of 1885, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the Jand may he inapected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition «Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project. Burdwan. 


[Parr J 


সদ 
کول سیون‎ 


Burdwan,—No. 11998L.A.—1l0th July 10869... 
Whereas the Governor is satistied that land is 
heeded for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos, 8) 
19013 and 220A of Kalipahari-Burdwan section 139 
K. ¥, ‘Transmission Line in connection with ihe 
promotion and operation of scheme for the gene. 
ration, transmission and distribution ot  electriy 
enargy, in the villages of Khanpara and Kondai. 
pur, Jurisdiction list Nos. 48 and 41, respectively, 
thana Galsi, district Burdwan, it is hereby declar. 
ed that pieces of land comprising cadastral survey 
plots a8 detailed below, and altogether measuring, 
more or less, .1058 of an acre are needed for the 
uforesaid public purpose ut the expense of 116 
Dumodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
villages of Khanpara and Kondaipur:— 


DISTRICT BURDWAN 


Police-station Calsi. 
Village Khanpara, jurisdiction list No. 40. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—28, 36 and 153. 


Villuge Kondaipur, jurisdiction list No. 4] 
Cadastral survey plots in part—145, 147. 


Mines of coal, jron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerals as 16 may he necessary to dig or 
carry away, or use in the construction of 106 
work for the purpose of which the land is being 
acquired, are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act 1, of 1894, und section 3, 0198 
(1), Act XVITI of 1885, to all whom it may 
concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected 12) the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No. 12002L.A.—10th July 1956.— 
Whereas the (tovernor is satisfied that land is 
needed for u public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Buse No. 237A, 
238A, 239B and 240A of Kalipahari-Burdwan 132 
K. ۷۰ Transmission Line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of schemes for the gene- 
ration, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy, in the village of Paraj, jurisdiction (۰۷ 
No. 48, thana (talsi, district Burdwan, it is here- 
hy declared that pieces of land comprising parts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 9620, 3521, 4 
6324, 6617, 6624, 6625, and 6651, and altogether 
measuring, more or less, .0985 of an acre are 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation with- 
in the aforesaid village of Puraj. 


Mines vf coal, iron-stone, slate or uvther minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerals as it may be necessary to dig of 
carry away, or use in the construction of the 
work for the purpose of which the land ia being 
acquired, are not needed. 


‘This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act IT of 1894, and section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 1885. to all whom 10 may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No, 120061,.A.—10th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land if 
needed for a public purpose not being a purpow 
of the (nion, namely, for Tower Base Nos, 4۸ 
and 257۸ of Kalipahari-Burdwan section 13° 
K. V. Transmission Line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of the schemes for {he 
generation, tranamission and — distribution af 
electric energy, in the village of Haripur, 1 ۵۳۶۳ 
tetion list No. 102, thana Gulai, district 


part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 6 2783 


ہِس“ب_ہ-- سسسس٭تعع ...۳ .-_. ۰ .س۴ سس سسسسمسمممتت-٥ے-ٹ‏ بج کڑک-:‫‪۳س۳جاح ‏ پٹ -ٹ‫سچتع گ کت ک‫ SS‏ 


jurdwan, it is hereby declared that pieces of land 
comprising parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 2 
and 167 and altogether measuring, more or 1688 
(412 of an acre are needed for the aforesaid 
wublic purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesnid village of 
[[azipur. 


Mines of coul, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the Jand, except only such parts 01 the mines 
and minerals as it may be necessary to dig or 
ery away, or use in the construction of the 
work for the purpose of which the land is being 
ecquired, are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I, of 1894, and section 3, clause 
(i), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom iW may 


voncern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


ERRATA. 


durdwan—-No. LITIGL.A—2nd July 1966, 
In declaration No. 68221,..A., dated the 25th 
March 1955, published at page 149, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette of the 7th April 1955 in reapect 
of the acquisition of Jand for excavation of 
Distributary 1/1۸ from chainage 269 to chainage 
836 in connection with Damodar Flood Control 
Project in the villages of Briddapara and 
Atcharia, jurisdiction list Nos. 54 and 88, res- 
pectively, thana Kalna, district Hurdwan, as 
subsequently modified by Mrratum No. 211261.A., 
dated 20th October 1955, published at page 4518, 
a a the Caleutta Gazette of the 10th Novem- 

1 195 So 


Delete the figures “1387” and “1391” in line 


2(), 


Delete the figure ‘1393’ and read the figures 
“1394 to 1396" in line 21. 


Delete the figures “2866” and “2872” and read 
the figures ‘2870, 2871, 2873 to 2875” in 
line 26. 


Delete the figures 2891) and ‘2894’? and 
read the figures “2890, 2892, 289, 2890, 
2896” in line 27. 


Delete the figure “2980" and read the figures 
2979" and “2981” in line 28. 


Delete the word “{o’* and the figure “137’’ and 
read the figure “156” in line 31. 


11768L.A.(P.W.).—3rd = July 
1956.—In declaration No. 173261..A4.(P.W.), 
dated the 17th November 1954, under section 
6 of the Land Acquisition Act T of 1894, pub- 
lished at mage 38774, Part } of the Calcutta Gazette 
o the 2nd Vecember 1954, in respect of the 
acquisition of supplementary land required for 
he construction of the Main Canal 10٦ connec- 
1101) with the Berai Irrigation Scheme, im the 
district of Bankura— 


Bankura,a—No. 


Read “565” for “AG5" against cadastral plots 
in part under “thana Onda, village Kushte, 


jurtadiation ligt No. 11401), 


Burdwan.—No. 12058L.A.—llth July 1956.— 
In declaration No. 22470L.A., dated 18th Novem- 
her 1955, under section 6 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act I, of 1894, published at pages 4795-4796, 
Part I of the Calcutta (sazette of the lst Decem- 
ber 1955, in respect of the acquisition of land 
required by the Vamodar Valley Corporation for 
Distributary A of Durgapur নি Canal in 
connection with the Wamodar Flood Control Pro- 
ject, in the district of Burdwan— 


Ktead “‘chainage 6 to chainage 25” in place of 
“‘chainage 0.5 to chainage 2b” in linea 5-6. 


By order of the Governor, 


۲۳ M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Land Reforms 


ORDERS. 


24-Parganas.—No. 114901..Ref.—28th June. 
1946.—Whereas an application has beeen made 
hy Shri Pulin Behari Dinda, 41১01009017, 
Midnapore, under suwh-section (1) of section 9 of 
the West Benga] Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the 
Stute Government of all sums recoverable by 
him under the provisions of section 8 of the said 
Act in respect of all interests held by him as an 
intermediary in the district of 24-Parganas; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
terred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


24-Parganas,—_No. 11492L.Ref.—28th June 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made 
by Shri Panchu Gopal Mukherjee, village Kachra, 
police-station Khanakul, post office Thakurani, 
district Hooghly, under sub-section (1) of section 
of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 
1535 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery 
by the State Government of all sums recoverable 
by him under the provisions of section 8 of the 
suid Act in respect of all interests held by him as 
an intermediary in the district of 24-Par- 
gunas; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
terred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application, 


No. 117841..Ref.—4th July 1956.—In exercise 
of the mower conferred by section 3 of the West 
Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 
1948 (West Bengal Act X XI of 1948), read with 
sub-rule (1) of rule 3 of the West Rengal Land 
Development and Planning Rules, 1848, the 
(Jovernor is pleased to make the following umend- 
ment in notifiention No. 2568L.Ref., dated the 
9nd March 1951, appointing the Land Planning 
Committee, as subsequently amended, namely :— 


Amendment 


In the said notification, for the words ‘Assist- 
ant Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, 
Land and Land Revenue Department, who shall 
Ibe the Secretary of the Committee’, after the 
wime of Shri Jitendra Nath Mukherjee in item 


11, substitute the following :— 


“Special (00682 and (er officto) Deputy Secre- 
tary, Tand and Land Revenue Department. 
who shall be the Secretary of the Com- 
mittee’. 


2784 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


Bankura——No. 11688]..Ref.—2nd July 1956.— 
Whereas un application has been made by Shri 
Narendra Nath Mohapatra of village Supur, 
post office Khatra, district Bankura, under  sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act ۲ of 
1954), for recovery by State Government of all 
sums recoverable by him under the provisions 
of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by him as an intermediary in the 
district, of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. BANERJEF, Sery. 


Land Development 


NOTIFICATION, 


Nadia.—No, 11738L.Dev.—3rd July 196.—In 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of 
the West Bengal Land Development and Planning 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act X XT of 1948), read 
with sul-section (1) of section 48 of the land 
Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act I of 1894)7the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to withdraw from the acquisition 
of pieces of land described in the schedule helow 
ineasuring, more or less, 4.85 out of 27.67 acres 
which were included in the declaration, No. 5060- 
1..Dev., dated the 12th March 1953, under 
section 6 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), published at mages 1018-1019, Part I of 
the “Calcutta Gazette”, dated the 2nd April 1953. 


Schedule 


Mauza Kulia, jurisdiction list No. 83, police- 
station Chakdah, cadastral surveyplot Nos, 647 
and 548 and part of cadastral survey plot No. 1361. 


Mauza Katagunj, jurisdiction list No. 74, 
wolice-station Chakdaha. cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 112 and 438. 


Mauza Dakshin Bhowanipore, jurisdiction list 
No. 69, police-station Chakdah, part of cadastral 
survey plot No, 1220. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Forests 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 6940For.—23rd June 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by section 29 of the Indian 
Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), the Governor is 
pleased hereby to make, with effect from the 20th 
October 1955, the following amendments in nott§- 
cation No, 222For,, dated the 5th January 1943, 
published at pages 32-33 of Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 14th January 1943, namely :— 


Amendments 
In the said notification— 


٦. for the words and figures “16 plots of land 
comprising a total area of 173803 21681?) 
aubstitute the words and figures ۱4 9۵٥ 


of land comprising a total area of 146.57 
acres’’,; 


5 
II omit the following words and figures, 
namely :— 


+(7) Plot No. 1106) area 8.13 acres.—Bounded 
on the north by plots Nos. 420 and 42}, 
on the south by plots Nos. 347, 449 and 
344, on the east by plot No. 385 proposed 
approach road ا‎ plot No. 386 and on 
the west by plots Nos. 345, 846 and pro. 
posed approach road. 


(2) Plot No. F(b) area 18.33 acres.—Bounded 
yn the north by plots Nos, 415, 416 and 
417, on the south by plots Nos. 427, 426 
und 423, on the east by proposed approach 
road and plot No. 412 and on the west 
by plots Nos. 435, 436, 437 and 438”, 


By order of the Governor, 
R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy 


Isa 8٥٦ ও MATa বিভাগ। 


REFUGEE RELIEF AND REHABILITATION 
DEPARTMENT 


APR | 
Establishment 


18.1 
NOTIFICATIONS. 


No, 8992195৮৮9৮) July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to appoint Shri Sudhir Ranjan Gupta 
temporarily as Administrator, Refugee Township 
at Gayeshpur in the district of Nadia, with effect 
from the date on which he assumes charge of the 
post until further ordera, vice Shri B. R. Ghosh, 
transferred. 


No. 8997Estt.—Sth July 1956.—Shri B. R 
Ghosh, Administrator, Refugee Township, Gayesh- 
pur, in the district of Nadia, is transferred ٥ 
such to Khoshhashmohalla-Hamidpur Refugee 
Township in the same district with effect from 
ts date on which he joins there until further 
orders. 


নং ৯০২৫এস্ট।--৬ই HAM ১৯৫৬।-বাস্তৃহারা প্রাণ ও 7 
বিভাগের wala একান্ত সচিব শ্রীমতী বাণশ পাল চৌধূরশকে 4 
yore নিয়মাবলর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭২) সংখ্যক নিয়মান্যায়শ ইংরেজি 
২৩এ জুন ১৯৫৬ Tay হইতে ৭ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ ۳ 
পনের faa 'চাঁকংসাপত বলে utes ছুটি sec করা হইল। 


রাজাপালের আদেশানুসারে, 
cw, পি, চক্ুবর্তী, 
উপ-সাঁচিব। 


No, 9025Kstt.—6th July 1956.—The Governor 
14 pleased to allow Sm. Bani Pal Choudhury, 
Private Secretary io the Minister, Refugee Relie 
and Rehabilitation Department, earned leave fot 
fifteen days with effect from 24rd June 1956 10 
7th July 1956 on medical certificate under rule 
1G7(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Fart ۰ 


By order of the Governor, 


K. CHAKRABARTY, Dy. 9০০5, 


part I) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2785 


০০০০ 


শিক্ষা বিভাগ । 
EDUCATION DEPARTMEN11 


শিক্ষা | 


Education 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলণ। 
NOTIFICATIONS. 
কালকাতা-হগখজশী।-নং ৭০তাশক্ষা।9এ-১২২1৫৫।-_ইরা জুলাই 
১১৫৬।-_ হুগলী মহসীন কলেজের পশ্চিমবঞ্গ উত্তর 'শক্ষণ কৃত্যকের 
(পুরুষ বিভাগ) অধ্যক্ষ ডক্টর অক্ষয় কুমার ঘোষাল প্রাক অবসরকালীন ছাট 
রওয়ায় এ পদে ও এ FOF কাঁলকাতা প্রোসডেন্সশ কলেজের howe 
শিক্ষণ কৃত্যফের (পুরুষ বিভাগ) ইতিহাসের সহ-অধ্যাপক শ্রীআব্দূল ওহাব 
ہہ‎ এম এ, বি-লিট্‌ (অক্সন)কে ২রা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারিখ অথবা 
পরবর্তী যোগদানের তারিখ হইতে পুনরাদেশ পর্যন্ত অস্থায়িভাবে নিয়োগ 


করা ۱ 


Calcutta-Hooghly.—No. 7083Edn./4A-122/55. 
008 July 1956.—Shri Abdul Wohab Mahmood, 
.لا‎ Blatt. (Oxon.), Assistant Professor 01 
History, Presidency College, Calcutta, in the 
West Bengal Educational Service (Men’s Branch) 
is appointed to act as Principal, Hooghly Mohsin 
College, in the West Bengal Senior Educational 
Service (Men's Branch) with effect from the 2nd 
July 1956 or any subsequent date on which he 
assumes the duties of the higher post there ٥ع‎ 
Dr. Akshoy Kumar (thoaal on leave preparatory 
to retirement and until further orders. 


কলিকাতা ے٦٢‎ ৬৯৭৮শিক্ষা।৪এ-১৮৮।৫৫।--২৮শে জুন ১৯৫৬।-- 
কাঁলকাতা লেডশ جح‎ কলেজের পাশ্চিমবঞ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের (মাহলা 
বিভাগ) বাংলায় উপাধ্যায় 37ہ‎ (Awl) সতী ঘোষ উচ্চপদে নিষৃস্ত হওবায় 
& পদে ও 2 কৃতাকে Ces (শ্রীমতী) প্রভাময়শ am, এম এ, 'ড-ফল 
(FINE ১৯৫৬ <۷ ASIN অন্তে কলেজ খ্াঁলবার তাঁরখ হইতে 
অর্থবা পরবর্তী যোগদানের তারিখ হইতে পৃনরাদেশ HAMS অদ্থাঁয়ভাবে 
নিয়োগ করা হইল। 


Calcutta.—No. 6978Edn. /4A-188 /55.—28th 
June 1956.—Dr. (Shrimati) JTrobhamoyee Roy, 
M.A., 1).Phil. (Cal), is appointed to act as 
lecturer im Bengali, Lady না College, 
Culeutta, in the Weat Bengal Junior Educational 
Service (Women’s Branch) with effect from the 
date of the reopening of the College after its 
summer vacation in 1956 or any subsequent date 
on which she joins rice Dr. (Shrimati) Sati Ghosh 
Promoted and until further orders. 


Calcutta.Dehra Dun.—No. 6846EKdn. /2P-299/ 
0.—26th June 1956.—The services of Shri 
Amulya Narayan Dutta, Associate Lecturer 10 
Mathematics, Bengal Engineering College, in the 
West Bengal General Service, are placed ut the 
disposal of the Government of Tait Ministry 
of Natural Resources and Scientific Research, 
with effeet from the date on which he is relieved 
1 his duties at the Bengal Engineering College 
Or appointment aa a temporary Geophysicist 
‘unior) in the Oil and Natural Gias Directorate, 

hra Dun. 


Darjeeling. —No. 6937 Kdn./4A-81 /56.—27th 
June 1956.—Shri Surva Bikram Gewali, 3B.A., 
বা) Inte officiating Tleadmaster, Darjeeling 
(fovernment High School, is re-employed {to act 
% District Social Edueation Officer, Darjeeling, 
1) 100 West Bengal Educational Service 7۷۶٥ 
ranch), for n period of one year with effect from 
the 30th April 1956 and until further orders. 


Hooghly-Calcutta.—No.  6907Kdn. /4A-9/56.— 
2ith June 1956.—Shri Vev Kumar Koy Chow- 
dhury, officiating Lecturer in Art and Craft, 
Government Training College, Hooghly, in the 
West Bengal Junior Educational Service (Men’s 
Branch), is appointed substantively as Lecturer in 
Fine Art and Indian Painting, Government 
College of Art and Craft, Calcutta, in the same 
service with effect from the date on which he 
joins بس‎ vice Shri Basanta Kumar Ganguly 
retired, 


By order of the (iovernor, 
D. M. SEN, Secy. 


Office of the Accountant-General, 
West Bengal 


CORRIGENDUM 


Calcutta, the 4th July 1956. 


The following changes may please be made in 
item (1) of the corrections to the Central Govern- 
ment Compilation of the Treasury Rules, Volume 
{T (First Edition, Reprint), as circulated under 
this office notification No. T.M./559, dated 29th 
May 1956 (published on page 2192 of Part 1 of 
the Caleutta Gazette, dated 140 June 1956) :— 


(1) In item (a) substitute the words “Columns 
9 and 14” for the words “columns 8 and 


14”, 
(2) Delete item (b). 
[ Vide Government of India, Ministry of Finance 
(Department of Economie Affairs) Corrigendwir 


No. F.9(12)-B.1/56, dated 19th June 1956. | 
L. P. KHANNA, Dy. Accountant-General 


সোরফ আফগ। 
SHERIFF'S OFFICE 


২৬শে WA ১৯৫৬। 


এতদ্বারা সর্বসাধারণকে জানান যাইতেছে যে, আগামী ১৯৫৬ Cera 

২৩শে জুলাই, সোমবার বেলা ১০-৩০ মিনিট হইতে যে পর্যন্ত আদালতের 
কার্য শেষ না হয় ততাঁদন প্রতাহ সূবে পশ্চিমবঙ্গের অধীন ATA 7 
۰۰۹م‎ বিচার fam জন্য কাঁজকাতা হাইকোটের আপন আদালত 
গৃহে ১৯৫৬ Woes চতুর্থ দায়রা Taba 'বভাগীয় আদালত বাঁসবে 
এবং এতম্বারা আরও প্রচার করা যায় যে, যে সকল Ale কোন sata 
[বিরূদ্ধে ফৌজদারশ আঁভযোগ কাঁরবেন তাহারা بج‎ Se সময়ে SE স্থানে 
ہق‎ থাফেন। 


(ডোঃ) এস, এন, সেন, 
সেরিফ। 


The 26th June 1956. 


Notice is hereby given that the Fourth Criminal 
Sessions of the year 1956 of the High Court at 
Calcutta in West Bengal for the town of Calcutta 
will be held at the Court House on Monday, the 
23rd day of July next, at 10-80 o’rlock in the fore- 
noon, and thenceforward from day to day until the 
said sessions be over. And it is hereby proclaim- 
ed that all persons who are to prosecute any of 
the prisoners to be brought wp for trial at the 
anid sessions be present then and there to 
prosecute. 


(Dr.) 5. N. SEN, Sherif. 


2786 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTICE 


Appellate Side 


Appointments and Transfers. 


Hooghly-Howrah.—No. 6504A.—6th July 1956. 
~—Shri Amiya Prasad J)as, lately officiating Sub- 
ordinate Judge of Hooghly, is appointed on rever- 
sion to be a Munsif of Howrah (Sadar), 106 Shri 
Pijuskanti Acharyya Chaudhury. 


6509A.—6th July 1956.—Shri 
Pijuskanti Acharyya Chowdhury, probationary 
Munsif sitting in court at Howrah (Sadar), is 
reposted at 6 same station for completing his 
training. 


Howrah.—No. 


Leave 


Birbhum.—No,. 4218A.—2nd July 1956.—Shri 
Manindra Nath Halder, probationary Munsif, lately 
sitting in Court at Bolpur in the district of 
Birbhum, is allowed leave on medical certificate 
under rule 173(1) and rule 17909) read with Note 
(2) thereunder, of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Fart I, for the period from the 24th June 1946 
to the 22nd September 1956 in extension of the 
leave granted to him under the orders of the 5th 
June 1956. 


K. C. SEN, Registrar. 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF 


DIVISIONS 
Burdwan )ivision—Chinsura 
No. 1410M.—7th July 1956.—It 78 hereby noti- 
fiel for general information that in accordance 
with the instructions contained in Government 
mernorandum No. 1541(5)M., dated 27th April 
1945, the Advisory Committee of the provincialised 
Subdivisional Hospital at Jhargram in the district 
of Midnapore is reconstituted with the tollowing 


members with effect from the date of the notifica- 
tion :— 5 


(1) Subdivisional Officer, Jhargram—President. 


(2) Subdivisional Medical Officer, Jhargram— 
Secretary. 


(3) Subdivisional Munsif, Jhargram—Membhber. 


(4) Subdivisional Health Officer, Jhargram— 
Member. 


(5) Circle Inspector of Folice, Jhargram— 
Member. 


(6) Head Mistress, Rani Kenode Manjari Gov- 
ernment High School for Girls, Jhargram 
Member. 


(7) Shri Mahendra Nath Mahata, M.I..A., 
Chairman, istrict Board, Midnapore— 
Member. 


(8) Shri Tarakeswar Chatterjee, 
Jhargrain Raj Eatate—Member. 


Manager, 


(9) Shri R. Bose, Head Master—K. K. Institu- 
tion, Jhargram—Member, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


Sr ren‏ ووےےؿےػےسچیسشسیسبسکٹڑسٹیےتےتت-تے 


{Paur ] 


% 

No. 1416M.—9th July 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by section 420(1) ot the 
Bengal Municipal Act (Bengal Act XV of 1932), 
which has been delegated to the Commissionerg 
of Divisions by Government notification No. 4394 | 
M.1M-109/55, dated 18th May 1956, I hereby 
extend the provisious of that section in respect of 
all the trades or businesses mentioned therein ںا‎ 
Baidyabati Municipality in the district 91 
Hooghly. 


No. 1386M.—4th July 1956,.—It is hereby noti. 
fied for general information that under rule 20(b 
of the Rules for the Manayement of Hospitals Ae 
Dispensaries in Bengal, the Managing Committee 
of the Mahesh-Rishra Dispensary in the district 
of Hooghly is reconstituted with the following 
members :— 


Names of the members 


(1) The Subdivisional Officer, 


(er officio). 


(2) The Subdiyisional Medical Officer, Seram- 
pore (ez officio), 


(3) The Medical Officer, 
pensary (6৫. officio), 


(4) Shri Nirmal Chandra Mukherjee. 
(5) Shri Panchu Gopal Nag. 

(6) Shri Ram Charan Ghosh. 

(7) Dr. Gupaldas Nag. 

(8) Shri Ananda Tal Chowdhury. 

(9) Shri Monomohon Lahiri. 

(10) Shri Dinendra Nath Bhattacharyya. 
(11) Shri Dhirendru Nath Laha. 
(12) Shri Prem Sankar Chakrabartty,. 


Serampore 


Mohesh-Rishra ])18- 


No. 1997).G.—7th July 1956.—In accordance 
with the provisions of rule 56(2) of Chapter 1V of 
the Bengal Jail Code, Volume I, Seventh Edition, 
1 hereby appoint Shri Satindra Prosad Ukil to be 
a non-vificial visitor of Chandernagore Sub-Jail in 
the district of Hooghly for a period of two years 
with effect from the date of this notification. 


No. 1988J.G.—7th July 1956.—In accordance 
with the provisions of rule 46(i) of Chapter 1V of 
the mange! Jail Code, Volume I, Seventh 1501 
tion, ] hereby appoint Shri Amulya Charan Dal. 
M.L.A., to be a non-official visitur of the (thaval 
Sub-Jail in the district of Midnapore for a period 
of one year with effect from the date of this 1۷۰ 
fication. 


B. SARKAR, Commissioner. 


epee 


No. 19427.G.—3rd July 1956.-—Shri Sailendra 
Nath Samaddar, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector (on probation) and Circle Officer, 
Gangajalghati in the district of Bankura, was 
allowed earned leave for twenty-one days from 
4th June 1956 to 24th June 1956 under rule 
167(11) of West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


No. 1991.1.0.—6th July 1956.—Shri Santosh 
Kumar (tanguli, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-D -puty Collector and Circle Officer, Chandra- 
kona, in the (thatal subdivision of the district ol 
Midnapore, was ullowed earned leave for fourteen 
davs from 3rd June 1956 to 16th June 1956 under 
tule IA7(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules. 
Part ,ا‎ in extension of the leave sanctioned with 
this office notifiention No. 150510. dated 
1151 May 1956. 


8. K. MITTER, for Commissioner: 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2787 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MAGISTRATE, MIDNAPORE. 


No. 9681J.G.—8th May 1956.—It ia hereby notified for general information that in the Union Board of the 
district of Midnapore specified in column 1 of the table below, the persons named in column 2 of the said table against 
each such union board have been duly elected to be the members of that Union Board from the respective wards 
specified against them, under the provisions of the laws :— 


The table. 


Name and No. of the union 
board, police-station and subdi- 
: vision. 
Barakeudi union board No. VI, Ward No. II—Shri Bankim Chandra Saw in Under section 6(2) of the Village 
police-station Salboni, Sadar 0109 scat remained vacant at the time of Self-Government Act, 1919 
(North) subdivision general election for want of qualified candi- (Act V of 1919). 


Name of persons and wards from which 


The provisions of law under 
elected. 


which elected. 


dates. 
Banpura union board No. VII, Ward No. I—Shri Nirad Baran Bhattacherjee, Ditto. 
police-station Midnapore,Sadar صا‎ the seat remained vacant at tho time 
(North) subdivision. of general election for want of qualified 
candidates. 
8. K. GHOSE, 
Additional District Magistrate. 
FORM “H’! Presidency Division—Calcutta 
; No, 7383.—llth July 1956.—It is hereby noti- 
NOTICE fied for general information that, in exercise of 


Burdwan, the 26th June 1956 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed, was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate, No. 7771..A., dated 12th 
September 1942, with effect from 10th Scptember 
1942, until further order of the Central Govern- 
ment; 


And whereas the Central Government — have 
lecided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conterred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisition- 
ing and Acquisition of Immovable 11002 Act, 
1962 (No. XXX of 1952), I, Shr A. K. Sen, 
LA.S., District Magistrate, being competent 
authority under the said Act, have specified 
Shri Rupendra Nath Mitra and others as the 
persons to whom possession of the said property 
shall be given ; 


And whereas the said Shri Rupendra Nath Mitra 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 
ie person empowered to accept delivery on their 
ehalf, 


Now, therefore, in exercine of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Mayis- 
trate, do hereby deolare that the said property i8 
released from requisition. 


Schedule 


Mauza Ondal, jurisdiction list No. 42,  police- 
station Ondal, district ٠۰ 


Cudastral survey plot No. Ares. 
3062 480 
9067 ১3] 
3066 84 


Names of the owners—-Rupendra Nath Mitra 
Gnd Ramendra Nath Mitra, son of Amarersh 
itra, 16 Beadon Street, Calcutta. 


A. K. SEN, Collector, Burdwan. 


the powers conferred by rule ا‎ of the Bengal 
Juil Code, 1937, Volume I, 7th Edition, as 
amended, I appoint the following gentlemen and 
lady to be non-official visitors of the Alipore 
Central Jail in the district of 24-Parganas for a 
period of two years with effect from the date of 
this notification :— 


(1) Dr. H. N. Mukherjee. 
(2) Shri B. Sen. 
(3) Mrs. Asoka Gupta. 


No. 739J.—Llith July 1956.—It is hereby noti- 
fied for general information that, in exercise of the 
powers conferred by rule 56(2) of the Bengal Jail 
Code, 1937, Volume I, 7th Edition as amended, I, 
with the prior approval of Government, appoint 
the following gentlemen to be non-official visitora 
of the Alipore (entral Juil in the district of 
24-Parganas for a period of two years with effect 
from the date of this notification :— 


(1) Shri D. J. Cohen. 

(2) Shri Mrityunjoy Prasad Roy Chowdhury. 
(3) Rotarian G. Basu. 

(4) Shri Satyendra Narayan Mukherjee. 

(5) Shri Hari Kumar Chakravarty. 

(6) Shri Khagendra Nath Nascar. 


No. 1299M.—6th July 1956.—It is hereby noti- 
fied under section 50 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 
1932 (Bengal Act XV of 1982), that Shri Baidya- 
nath Basu and Shri Debi Lal Saha have been 
duly elected Chairman and Vice-Chairman, res- 
pectively, of the Tittagarh Municipality in the 
district of the 24-Parganas. 


No. 1874R.G.—6th July 1956.—Shri Punya 
Yada Mutsuddi, Sub-Deputy Collector and 
Circle Officer, South Basirhat, 24-Parganas, 1a 
granted earned leave for fifteen days under rule 
10101) of West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, 
from 2lst April 1956 in extension of the leave 
sunctioned in this office notification No. 1023R.G., 
dated 16th May 1956. 


K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


2788 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1966 


| Paw] | 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF NADIA 


Special Land Acquisition Branch 


CANCELLATION NOTIFICATION 

Whereas by a notification published at page 
5042, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 
15th December 1955, I required all persons 
interested in the waste lands specified therein to 
show cause within the prescribed time why the 
waste lands should not be requisitioned ; 

And whereas after considering all such petitions 
and after making further enquiry, I am satistied 
that the waste lands as mentioned in the schedule 
below should not be requisitioned: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred on me under sub-section (3) of section 4 of 
the Waste Lands (Requisitioning ond Utilisation) 
Aci, 1952, I hereby cancel the aforesaid notifica- 
tion relating to the plots mentioned in the schedule 
below :— 


The Schedule 


Cadastral survey plot Nos. in full—708, 712, 
713, 949, 1169, 1229, 2008, 2128, 21:17, 
2198, 2147, 2148, 2207, 2208, 2215, 2216, 
2217, 2218, 2224, 2225, 2226, 2227, 222%, 

2231, 2232, 22384, 2242, 2248, 2244, 

295, 2296, 2800, 2301, 2302, 2305, 

2809, 2318,- 2326, 2931) 2344, 2345, 2348, 

2364, 2432, 2483, 2469, 2470, 2503, 2504, 

2506, 2506, 2557, 2564, 2697, 2698, 2699, 

2700, 2738, 2887 and part of cadastral sur- 

vey plot Nos. 996, 2088, 2213 and of mauza 

Bhatpara, jurisdiction list No. 88, police- 

station Tehatta, district Nadia, measuring, 

more or less, 26.20 acres of land. 


M. C. MUKHERJEE, Collector. 


Presidency Division—Jalpeiguri 


No. 951J3.—4th July 1956.—Under the provision 
of rule 56(2) of the Bengal Jail Code, Volume I, 
I, with the previous approval of Government, 
appoint Shri Theodar Manaen to be a non-official 
visitor of the Darjeeling District Jail for a 
period of two years with effect from the date of 
this notification. 


No. 957J3.—4th July 1956.—Under the _provi- 
sion of rule 46(2) of the Bengal Jail Code, Volume 
I, I, with the previous approval of Government, 
hereby appoint Dr. Anilendra Nath Dey, M.B., to 
be a non-official visitor of the Malda Sub-Jail for 
a period of two years with effect from the date of 
this notification. 


No. 1881R.G.—6th July 1956.—The orders 
contained in this office notification No. 1254R.G., 
dated 20th June 1956, transferring Shri Naresh 
Chandra Ray Chaudhury, Sub-Deputy Magistrate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector, Siliguri, Darjeeling, 
to the Cooch Behar district are hereby cancelled. 


K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. A 71545, /55-56.—27th June 
1956.—Shri 07 R. atwardhan, Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District VI, Calcutta, is allow- 
ed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned 
leave for thirty-four days with effect from 14th 
sie 1956 to 16th June 1956 with perniission to 
etl holiday the 12th May 1956 and Sunday the 


13th May 1956 and affix § 
Mise does eee سو مت می وی‎ 


০৯ 


It is certified that the officer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leuve, to the post from which 
he proceeded on Jenve or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


No. 1/252700.T. /2E/1 /56-57.—29th June 1956 
—The services of Shri A. R. Kurlekar, I.B.S., 
Tneome-tax Officer, Grade I, who has been trans- 
ferred to this charge under Central Board of 
Revenue Order F. No. 57/1/56-Admn.VI, dated 
the 4th June 1956, are placed at the disposal of 
Yommissioner of Tneome-tax, Calcutta. 


No. 607, 85271 June 
1956.—Shn ۰ angdi, Income-tax Officer, 
Special Survey Circle VII, Calcutta, is, with 
effect from the afternoon of 23rd June 1956 and in 
addition to his own duties, appointed to hold the 
charge of the 2nd Additional Income-tax Officer 
of the same Circle during the absence on leave of 
Shri V. Ramehandran. 


2. Qn return from leave, Shri V. Ramchandran 
Tncome-tax Officer, will he re-posted as 2nd 4001. 
tional Income-tax ()fficer, Special Survey Circle 
VII, Calcutta, relieving Shri D. Wangdi, Income- 
tax Officer, of this additional charge. 


No. وو‎ ae {/70/AC/56-56.—8rd এম! 
1956.—Shri B. C. Mitra, Income-tax 085+٥٥ 
Foreign Section, Calcutta, is allowed, under the 
Revised Jieave Rules, 1933, earned leave 10 
twenty-five days with effect from 4th June 1956 
to 28th June 1956. 


It is certified that the ofticer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
siinilar rates of allowances. 


No. A/Cs.24907C.T. /25 / 267 /55-56.—27th June 
1956.—In continuation of this office order 
No. A /e.2555(d)C.T. /2E/ 257 /55-56, dated 7th 
Apri] 1956, Shri বি T. Tirumalachari, formerly 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District I, Calcutta 
(now Assistant Commissioner of JIncome-tax), 18 
allowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, 
extension of earned leave for ten days with effect 
from 2nd May 1956 to llth May 1956 with per- 
mission to affix holiday, the 12th May 1966, and 
Sunday, the 13th May 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post 
from which he proceeded on leave or to a post 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


No. A/Cx.25269(c)C.T. /2h/144/56-56. — 1 
June 1956.—Mr. (+. A. James, Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District I1(2), Calcutta, is allowed, 
under the Revised Twave Rules, 1933, earned 
leave for fifteen days with effect from 13th June 
1956 to 27th June 1956, 


It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post 
from which he proceeded on leave or to a post 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


No. ۸ /€s.26269(d)C.T. i [36 /56-57.—28th 
June 1956.—Shri K. J. Mukherjee, Additions 
Income-tax (Officer, Howrah, Calcutta, is allowed, 
under the Revised Teave Rules, 1933, earned 
leave for twenty days with effect from 18th ۴۶ 
1946 to 2nd July 6۰, 


It is certified that the officer is likely ٥ 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the, post 
from which he proceeded on leave or to a pos 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


]1 ۷چ 


উল 


No. A/Cs.26566C.T. /2H/142/55-56.—20th June 
1956.—Shri A, B, Srivastava, Additional Income- 
yx Officer, 24-Parganas, Calcutta, is allowed, 
under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned 
18০৪ for twenty-five days with effect from 14th 
Yay 1956 to 7th June 1956 with permission to 
prefix holiday, the 12th May 1956, and Sunday, 
the 199) May 1956, to the leave. ' 


It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post 
from Which he proceeded on leave or to a post 
wrrying similar rates of allowances. 


It is further certified that the officer would have 
soutinued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 
(00601) Cluss 11, but for his proceeding on above 
earned leuve. 


No, A/Cs.26067C.T. /2E/44/AC/56-57.—29th 
June 1956.—Shri A. K. Bhattacharyya, Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, District IITA, Calcutta, 
is wllowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, 
eamed leave for twenty-one days with effect from 
16th June 1956 to 6th July 1956 


It is certified that the officer is likely to 
returm, on the expiry of his leave, to the post 
from which he proceeded on lenve or to a post 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


lt is further certified that the officer would have 
contmued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 
01108 Class 11, but for his proceeding on above 
earned leave. 


No. 26668C.T. /215/35/AC/56-57.—29th June 
1956.—Shri B. শি. Nadkarni, Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Jncome-tax, Range V, Calcutta, 
is allowed, under the ktevised Leave Rules, 1933, 
earned leave for eleven days with effect from 2nd 
April 1956 to 12th April 1956 with permission to 
prefix Sunday, the Ist April 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post 
from which he proceeded on leave or to a post 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


No. = A/Cs.27331C.T. [2K /22/56-57.—3rd July 
1966.—Shri Ranbir Prasad, Additional Income- 
lax Officer, Companies District I, Calcutta, is 
allowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1993, 
eurmed = leave for twenty-seven days with ۷ء‎ 
from 4th June 1966 to 30th June 1956 with per- 
mission to prefix and affix Sundays, the 3rd June 
7 and Ist July 1956, respectively, to the 
eave, 


It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post 
from which he proceeded on leave or to a post 
Carrying similar rates of allowances. 


No, 5 /249090.T. {214-96 /56-56.—27th June 
1966.—Shri J. M. Bhatia, 7th Additional Incoms- 
fix Officer, ou-companies (lncome-tax«oum- 
0০৮৭ Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, is, with 
fect. from the afternoon of 9h June 1966 and in 
addition to his own duties, appointed to hold the 
"urges of the 2nd and 3rd Additional Income-tax 
18. of the same district during the absence on 


five of Shrigl. R. Thiruvengadam, 1.۰ 


m from leave, Shri T. اط‎ 
I.R.S., Income-tax Officer, will 
nd and 8۳۸ Additional Income- 
n-companies (Income-tax-cum- 
3089 Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, relieviug 
“ort J. M. Bhatia, Tih Additional Income-tax 
0 leer, of these addtional charges. 


C reeposted as 
کا‎ Officer, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


2189 


লারা ৩ 


No. 19/301400,1,1814/1 |06-67.--08॥ July 6۰ 
—Shri ظط م‎ Chowdhury, ist Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Special Survey Circle ۷۱1. Calcutta, 
is, With immediate effect and until] further orders, 
transferred aud posted as jrd Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Special Survey Circle VI, Calcutta. 


The charge of the lst Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Special Survey Circle VII, will, until 
further orders, be held by Shri D. Wamgdi, 
lucome-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle VII, 11 
addition to lis own duties. 


No. k/80520C.T, /2E/1/56-57.—6th July 1996. 
4) exercise of the powers conferred under section 
009) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, 1 here- 
by direct that Shri M. C. Mech, Income-tax 
Officer, Class II, shall perform all the functions 
of un Income-tax Officer under the said Act in 
respect of such persons or classes of persons or of 
such incomes or classes of income or in respect of 
suGh areas as muy be allocated to him from time 
to time. 


The services of Shri M. C. Mech, Income-tax 
Officer, are placed at the disposal of the Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax, Calcutta, with immediate 
effect, 


Nou. K/§0621/C.T./2E/1/66-57.—6th July 1956. 
.ا‎ exercise of the powers conferred under 
section 5(5) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, 
1 hereby direct that Shri Aloke Banerji, Income- 
tux Officer, Class 115 shall perform all the func- 
tions of an Income-tax Officer under the said Act 
in respect of such persons or classes of persons or 
of such incomes or classes of income or in respect 
of such areas as may be allocated to him from 
time to time. 


The Services of Shri Aloke Banerji, Income- 
tux (fiver, are placed at the disposal of the 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Calcutta, with 
Immediate effect. 


No. A/Cs.80670(b)C.T. /2E/97/54-55. — ٤ا‎ 
July 1956.—Shri A. N. Mehrotra, I.8.5., 
A.1.T.0. C-1, Caleutta, is allowed, under the 
Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned leave for 
thirteen days with effect from 18th June 1956 to 
4000) June 1966 with permission to prefix and 
uffix Sundays, the 17th June 1956 and Isat July 
1956, respectively, to the leave. 


It is certified that the Officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave to the post from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post ‘carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTA, 


ORDERS 


No. 241410.T./2E/40/AC/56-57.—26th June 
1956.—Shri G. M. Kulkarni, Income-tax Officer, 
Heudquarters, Calcutta, is allowed, under the 
Revised Teave Rules, 1933, earned leave for 
seventeen days with effect from 7th June 1956 to 
23rd June 1956 with permission to afix Sunday the 
24th June 1956 to the leave. 


Tt is certified that the officer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


2190 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


Seen ০১০৯ 

No. 1 /26488C.'. (2/1 /56-57.— 29th Tune 1956. 
—Shri A. .لا‎ Kurlekar, LR.S.,  Lncome-tax 
Offiver, Grade 1, whose services have been placed 
at my disposal by the Commissioner of Income- 
tux, West Bengal, 01006] his order No. E/25270- 
C.1./2K-1/56-57, dated the 29th June 1956, is, 
with eect from the date he reports for duty in 
this charge, posted as Income-tax Officer, District 
TIT(2), Caleutta, vice Shri Hargovind, JI.R.S., 
transferred to the charge of the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Uttar Pradesh, under Central Board 
of Revenue Order F. No. 57/1/56-Admn.VI, 
dated the 90৮ May 6۰ 


Qn relief by Shri Kurlekar, Shri Hargovind 
should report for duty as Income-tax Officer, 
District I(1), Kanpur, 


No.  B/2h602C.T./2E/41/56-57—2%h June 
1956.—Shn D. C. Dutta, 116) Additional 
Inecome-tax Officer, Ihstrict V, Calcutta, is, with 
effect from the afternoon of 23rd June 1956 and 
in addition to his own duties, appointed to hold 
the charge of the 10th Additional IJncome-tax 
Officer of the same district during the absence 
on Jeave of Shri K. K. Dadlani. 


2. On return from leave, Shri K. K. Dadlani, 
Income-tax Officer, will be re-posted-ns 10th 
Additional Income-tax Officer, District V, 
Calcutta, relieving Shri D. C. Dutta, 11th Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, of this additional 
charge, 


No. E/27071C.T. /2E-1/56-57.—8rd July 1956. 
—(Qn return from leave Shri Kulamani Rath, 
I.R.S., Income-tax Officer, is posted as 2nd 
Additional Income-tax Officer, District IV(2), 
moe Shri Rabendra Kapur, I.R.S., transferred 
to the charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Tyelhi, under Central Board of Revenue Order 
7۶. No. 57/1/56-Ad.VI, dated 30th May 1956. 


Qn relief by Shri Kulamani Rath, Shri 
Rabendra Kapur should report for duty to the 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi. 


No. 27092C.T. /2E-1/56-57.—3rd July 1956.— 
On return from leave Shri Bhagyadhar Das, 
Income-tax Officer, is posted as 5th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District ad vice Shri 
P. Krishnamurthi, I:R.8., transferred to the 
charge of the Commissioner of Income-tax, 
Mysore, under Central Board of Revenue Order 
F. No. Q7/1/56.Ad.VI, dated 30th May 1996, 


On relief by Shri Bhagyadhar Das, Shri 
P. Krishnamurthi should report for duty as 5th 
Additional Income-tax Officer, Urban Circle, 
Bangalore. 


No. 16/29735C.T. /2E-1/56-57.—5th July 1956. 
—Shri .کا‎ K. Mazumdar, J.B.8., 8th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District II, is, 
with effect from the 9th July 1956, posted as 6th 
Additional Income-tax Officer of the same dis- 
trict vice Shri G. R. Raghavan, 1.۰ 


With effect from the said date the charge of 
the 8th Additional Invome-tax (fficer, Companies 
District IT, is merged with that of 6th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District TI. 


[14701 


পু 


SS SE PST Et LO আপার... ০০০) 


mn 


Ou being relieved by Shri K. K. Mazumday, 
Shi (1. 10. Raghavan, 6th Additional Income. 
tux Officer, is posted as 2nd Additional Tueome. 
tax Utheer, Companies District II, relieving Shr 
T. Bellan, 1.31.3, Ist Additional Income-tax 
Officer, of the same district of this additional 


charge, 
€ 


No, A/c. 26269(6)C.T. /2E/44/54-55.—26th June 
1956.—Shri ۰ Chidambaram, Additional Income. 
tax Officer, Companies District II, Calcutta, 19 
allowed, under the Revised J.eave Rules, 1933, 
earned leave for thirty days, with effect from 18th 
June 1956 to 17th July 1956, with permission to 
prefix Sunday, the 17th June 19656, to the leave, 


It is certified that the officer ig likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post front whirh 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


No. A/es.26473C.T. Me ee { 64-55.—2nd July 
1956.—Shri K. ۰ th, I.R.8., Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District I(2), “Calcutta, is 
allowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, 
earned leave for twenty days, with effect trom 
18th June 1956 to 7th July 1966, with permission 
to prefix Sunday, the 17th June 1956 and affix 
Sunday, the 8th July 1966, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer is likely to return. 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or ما‎ a post carrying اہ‎ 
rates of allowances. 


No. A/C24908C.T. /2E/250/AC/55-56, — 27th 
June 1956.—In continuation of this office order 
No. 19898(a)C.T./2E/250/AC/55-66, dated the 
7th June 1956, Shri M. 8. Datta, Income-tax 
Officer, District IV(3), Calcutta, is allowed, under 
the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, extension ot 
earned Jeave for fourteen days with effect from the 
“4th June 1956 to 7th July 1956, with permission 
to affix Sunday, the 8th July 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that the Officer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances, 


No. E/30518C.T./2E/1/56-57.—6th July 1956. 
—Shri M. ۰. Mech, Income-tax Officer, Class IT, 
whose services have been placed at my disposal by 
the Commissioner of Income-tax, West —Bengy), 
1s, with immediate effect posted as 5th Additionu! 
Tncome-tax Officer, District II(1), Calcutta, vice 
Shri K. S. Narayanswami, I.2.S., transferred to 
the vharge of the Commissioner of Income-tay. 
Madras, under Central Board of Revenue orde" 
F, No, 57/1/56-Ad.V1, dated the 30th May 1956. 


Qn relief by Shri M. C. Mech, Shr 
.کا‎ 8. Narayanswami should report for duty 85 
Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle, 
Madhburat. 


No. F/30519C.T./2E/1/56-57.—6th July 1966. 
—Shri Aloke Banerji whose services have beet! 
ا‎ at my disposal by the Commissioner of 
ncome-tux, West Bengal, is, with immediate 
effect, posted as 6th Additional Ineome-13s 
Officer, District-IT(1), Calcutta, relieving Shr 
K. S. Viswanathan, Ist Additional Income-tax 
Officer, of this additional charge. 


ও. 1১, JAIN, Commissioner. 


marl] THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2791 
SSS ্লললা্্্্্্্ললল্া্াশ্া্ান্ললল্ল্শ্ললল লাক”) 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No. 2845Dis./D/11L-53/55.—29th June 1956.—Whereas ynder the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4045Dis./D/ 
11L-43/65, dated the ddst August 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, Proprietors, Messrs. B. N. 
Elias & Co., Itd., Norton Buildings, 1 & 2 Old Court House Corner, 
Calcutta-1, and their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, Bansberia, Hooghly, regarding the matters specified in fhe schedule 
thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial Tnbunal ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings befere the said Tribunal 
a complaint wus filed before it against the said Company by Shri Golam 
Hossain, » workman of the said Company, alleging that the said Company 
had altered, to the prejudice of the said workman, the conditions of service 
applicable to him immediately before the commencement of the said 
proceedings ; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the. 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal had adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(Jovernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the suid award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33۸ of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by one Colam Hossain, a workman of Empire Bone 
Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, 89175198718) Hooghly, against Messrs. B. N. Elias & Co., Ltd., 
Proprietors, Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, in connection with 
an industrial dispute between Empire Bone Mills and their workmen 
_represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, post office Bansberia 

“Yistrict Hooghly, referred under Covernment Order No. 4045Dis./D 
1 i /55, dated 31st August 1955 (case No. 60 of 1956 under section 
3378), 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: 
টিনা G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
Appearances, 


For the employee: Shri M. M. Saha, Advocate, with Kazi Mohammed Ali, 
President, Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union. 


For the Company: Shri 8. Manna, Bur.-at-Law, with Mr. E. D. Ezra, 
Solicitor of Messrs. Victor Moses & Co., Solicitors. 


AWARD 


The present application under séction 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, was filed by one Golam Hossain, a workman of the Empire Bone Mills, 
on the allegation that he wag suspended for three days (that is from 11th 
January 1966 to 18th January 1956) by way of punishment during the 
pendency of thé aforesaid dispute before this Tribunal. I.eave of the Tribunal 
was not taken as provided under section 33 of the Act. Accordingly, payment 
of full wages for those three days was claimed. 

The Opposite Party denied having contravened the provisions of section 


33 of the Act. 


2792 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Pant I 


পল ক্ল্যাশ শল্য 
তে 

This day-was fixed for hearing of the matter. But instead of proceeding 
with the case, the petitioner has filed an application to the effect that the 
case has been amicably settled between the parties out of Court, and that 
in the cirgumstances, 7 did not like to proceed with the matter further. 
Accordingly, the petitioner prayed for a ‘'no-dispute’’ award. Perused the 
petition, and heard the learned representatives on ‘both sides. I accept the 
petition, and make a ‘‘no-dispute’’ award in terms of the petition filed by 
the workman concerned, which will form part of this award a8 Annexure. 


Dictated and corrected by ime, 


G. 1১. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


The 2156 June 1966. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAI, TRIBUNAL, GOVERNMENT OF 
WEST BENGAL 
In the matter of industrial dispute under 
order of reference No. 4045 Dis. 


Between 
Messrs. Empire Bone Mills and their 
workmen 
And 


In the matter of an application under 
section $3A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


Golam Hossain ... ... Applicant, 
VErSUs 


B. N. Ehas & Co., 140.) Proprietors, 


Empire Bone Mills. 
Humble petition of the applicant in the above matter, 
MoOsT RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


(1) That today, the 218٦ June 1956, has been fixed for hearing of the 
above case. 


‘ (2) That the cause has been amicably settled between the parties out of 
ourt. 


(3) That the applicant craves your honour’s leave not to proceed with the 
matter further. 


Under the circumstances, your honour may graciously be pleased to pass 
a “no-dispute’ award, and pasg such other or further order as your honour 
may deem fit and proper. 


And for this, the petitioner shall pray. 
C. KESAVAN, 


Assistant Secretary, 
Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


L. T. I. of Golam Hossain. 


The 21:1 June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 5. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


par I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2793 


ORDER 


No. 28652Dis./D/ جو سس‎ July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Departmont, order No. 3700Dis. ; D/ 
}0L-7/53, dated the 5th October 1953, read with its corrigendum 
No. 1219Dis./D/111-16/04, dated the 24th March 1954, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Bengal Immunity Research Institute, 39/B Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta, and their employees, represented by Bengal 
Immunity Sramik Union, 38 Gopal Lal Thakur Road, Barranugore, Calcutta- 
90, regarding the matters specified in the schedule to the said order, dated the 
hth October 1909, read with the said corrigendum, dated the 24th March 
1954, was referred to the First Industrial Tribunal for adjudication: 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was received from Shri Parimnal Bhatta- 
charjee, an employee of the said Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Lid., 
Baranagore, Calcutta-d6, before the said Tribunal against the said Company 
alleging that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said 


employee, the conditions of service applicable to him immediately before 
the commencement of the said proceedings; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 


adjudicated upon the suid complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, 10. pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industria] Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Parimal Bhattacharjee, an employee of Messrs. 
Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagar, Calcutta-36. 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAI, 
PRESENT: 
Set M. C. BANERJEE, //strict Judge (Retared), Judge, First Industrial 


Tribunal. 
For the complainant: Shri Suprabhat Mukherji, Pleader. 


For the employer: Shri 8. C. Sen, Advocate, and Shri 8. K. Dhar 
Chowdhury, Pleader. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
No. 3700Dis./D/10L-7/53, dated 5th October 1958, referred, under sections 
Tand 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Bengal Immunity 00.) Ltd., Baranagore, 
Calcutta-36, and their workmen to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award 
of the Tribunal on this dispute was made on 17th November 1954 and was 
published in the Calcutta Gazette on 16th December 1954. 


On 24th December 1964 Shri Parimal Bhattacharjee, an employee of the 
Company, filed a complaint under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, stating that the Company unlawfully denied him the bonus which fell 
due and which was a condition of service. It is stated that the Company 
terved a charge-sheet on the petitioner on 806) April 1954, and the Director- 


9794 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr I 


২ স্লিপ 
Manager passed orders that the petitioner was guilty of insubordinafon, 
and so he was warned and it was ordered that no bonus would be given to 
him. The petitioner, therefore, prays for an order directing the Company 
to pay him the bonus which has been withheld. 


The Company, in its written statement, states that the payment of 
bonus to the employees of this Company is not a condition of service, thut 
it is an ez-gratia payment made in consideration of efficiency and good 
work, It is stated that the Company has followed the following principle 
in making this eg-yratia payment :— 

(a) Bonus is paid to an individual workman at the absolute discretion 
of the Management in consideration of his work and efliciency. 


(b) Before payment of any honus, the Management scrutinises the 
service records and the reports of the Department-in-charge in 
respect of each of the workmen and then decides whether the 
workman concerned deserves to be paid or not and, in pursuance 
of the said decision, pays the same. 


Following the above principle, the Company paid bonus in May 1954 to the 
applicant at the rate of one month’s basic pay. In September 1954, the 
Company on considering his records and the reports of the Department-in- 
charge decided not to pay him bonus at that time. The applicant is not 
entitled to get any bonus, or the bonus in question as of right and aa a 
condition of service. Consequently, non-payment of bonus to the applicant 
is not a contravention of section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act, In 
the circumstances, the application should be dismissed. 


The points that arise for decision in this case are as follows :— 


Points 
= (1) Is the application under section 984 of the Act maintainable? 
(2) Is the applicant entitled to any relief in this case? 


DECISIONS 


Point No. 1.—The question for decision is if the application under 
section 934 is maintainable. It is the contravention by the employer of 
section 33 of the Act that gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the 
workmen to approach and move the Tribunal and this contravention is the 
condition precedent to the exercise by the ‘Tribunal concerned of the 
additional jurisdiction and powers conferred on it by section 88۸ (de the 
decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Automobile 
Products of India, Ltd., reported in 1955 14.4..0., 211). The question, there- 
fore, is if the Company in not paying the bonus in September 1954 to the 
petitioner violated section 33 of the Act. 


(0.1. 1 Shri Nihar Bindu Guha deposed on behalf of the Company. 
Documents Exts. A series and Ext. B were marked for the Company. No 
evidence was adduced for the applicant. It appears from the evidence of 
0.۲۰٢۲۲۰ 1 that the Company pays bonus usually three times in the financial 
year—once in May, again in September and again in the following January. 
The financial year of the Company is from May to the following April. 
On each of the three occasions, bonus corresponding to one month’s hasic 
wage is paid to the employees. The witness states that one out of the 
three bonuses is paid to all employees without exception, but the other two 
bonuses are paid according to efficiency of work of the individual employees 
and their conduct. In the case of the applicant, Parimal Bhattachagjee, he 
was given the bonus for May and January but was not allowed the bonus 


part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2705 


for September, on account of some adverse remarks about his work, which 
yas found to be justified on enyuiry. It is also stated that payment of 
none of these three bonuses is a condition of service for the workmen but it 
18 Customary 1n the Company to give at least one of these three bonuses, 
wndependent of the quality of work. 


There is nothing on record to show that the payment of bonus is a 
condition of service of the employees. ١0.۰۷۷۰ 1 in his cross-examination 
alates that 25 per cent. of the nett profit of every year 1s earmarked for 
payment as bonus to the employees and Ext. B shows the amount of bonus 
paid in the years 1952-53, 1953-54 and 1954-65 and also the profits during 
these years. O.P.W. 1 also states that Parimal Bhattacharjee was not 
deprived of the bonus in September 1954 by way of punishment. There 
1৪) therefore, nothing on record to show that it is a condition of service for 
the employees to get all the three bonuses. All that the witness states 
ig that it 1s customary for the Company to give only one out of the three 
bonuses in the year to all employees, independent of the quality of his 
work. In the present case, the applicant was given the bonus in May 1954 
and January 1955. He was deprived of only one bonus out of the three, 
1.6.) the bonus paid in September 1954. I do not find that the pay- 
ment of bonus in Septemher 1954 was a condition of service of tke 
applicant, Parimal Bhattacharjee. That being so, it cannot be claimed 
that the Company altered to the prejudice of the workman concerned 
condition of service applicable to him immediately before the commence- 
ment of the proceedings. Again, it also appears that in order to attract 
the operation of clause (a) of section 33 of the Act, the alteration of the 
condition of service should be in regard to a body of workmen and not an 
individual workman. This view has been held in the case of Hindusthan 
Development Corporation, reported in 1951(I) L.LJ., 37, by a State 
Tribunal of Calcutta. In any case, it appears that the fact that the 
applicant was not given the bonus in Séptember 1954 does not attract the 
operation of section 33(a) of the Act. 


It was also argued by the learned spokesman for the petitioner that uon- 
payment of honus in September 1954 to the petitioner was a punishment 
to him and was a conduct which was hit by section 33(b) of the Act. In 
view of the evidence of 0.P.W. 1 that one of the three bonuses is paid 
to all workmen and the other two bonuses are paid according to efficiency 
of work and conduct of the individual employees non-payment of one out of 
three bonuses after an enquiry on an adverse report by the departmental 
head cannot be considered to be a punishment that could attract the 
operation of section 8900) of the Act. In view of these circumstances, 
١۲ 18 decided that the conduct of the Company in not giving the applicant 
bonus in September 1954, was not a violation of section 33 of the Act and 
the present application under section 33A of the Act was not, therefore, 
competent. 


Point No. 2.—Even if the application under section 383A of the Act 
was competent, it would appear from the facts of the case and the evidence 
on record that the application of the petitioner cannot succeed on merits. 
Ext. A(4) is a report by the departmental head under whom the applicant 
worked, stating that the petitioner refused to work in the Distilled Water 
Section, as he was ordered by hia immediate superior. Ext. A(3) is the 
charge-sheet served on the petitioner for this alleged misconduct. Ext. A(2) 
is the explanation of the petitioner. Here he states that he only wanted 
to know what work he was to do in the 10190111901 Water Section, as he was 
afraid that he might otherwise cause damage to the interest of the Company, 


2796 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr [ 


and that he was prepared to work there even now. Ext. A is the state. 
ment of Shri A. K. Chowdhury, the departmental head and the petitioner 
to the enquiring officer, O.P. 1. In this statement to the enquiring 
officer, the petitioner states that he wanted to know the reasons for his 
transfer to the Distilled Water Section and the cause of his objection to 
work there was that the place was very hot. The explanation, Ext. A(2) 
to the charge-sheet, does not disclose this ground of objection. Ext. A is 
the report of the enquiring officer and the order of the Director-Manager 
appears at the back of the charge-sheet. It shows that the petitioner wag 
guilty of insubordination and disobejience. He was warned. 1٦ was also 
ordered that he should not be given the next bonus. This order was made 
on the 26th of May 1954. There is no evidence on record to justify the 
conclusion that the report, Ext. A(4), against the petitioner or the enquiry 
following it and the order of the Directur-Manager after the enquiry was 
not buna fide. It is, therefore, clear that the petitioner, Parimul Bhatta- 
charjee, was not given the bonus in September 1954 as a result of adverse 
report against him, which was found to be justified on a detailed enquiry 
in which the petitioner was examined and was given an opportunity of 
defending himself. As is was a rule for the Company to grant only one 
out of three bonuses to all employees, independent of the quality of their 
work, and to allow the order two bonuses in consideration of the efficiency 
and conduct of the workmen concerned, the Company was justified im 
refusing the bonus to the petitioner in September 1954, after the enquiry 
on his conduct, as reported in Ext. A(4). The petitioner is uot entitled 
to any relief even on merits. This point is accordingly answered. 


In the result, it is ordered that the application under section 33A of the 
Act be rejected and it is awarded accordingly. 


M. 0. BANERJI, 
Judge, First lndustrial Tribunal. 
The 214 June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 28o38Dis./D/11L-29 গল July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3700Dis./D/ 
10L-7/53, dated the Sth October 1953, read with its corrigendum 
No. 1219Dis./D/11L-16/54, dated the 24th March 1904, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
(09105818590) and Bengal Immunity Research Institute, 39/B Lower Circular 
Road, Calcutta, and their employees represented by Bengal Immunity 
Sramik Union, 33 Gopal Lal Thakur Road, Baranagore, Calcutta-36, regard- 
ing the matters specified in the schedule to the said order, dated the dth 
October 1953, read with the said corrigendum, dated the 24th March 1904, 
was referred to the First Industrial Tribunal for adjudication; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the suid 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was received from Shri Arun Lal Burman, 
an employee of the said Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
Calcutta-36, before the said Tribunal against the said সিরা alleging 
that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said employee. 
the conditions of service applicable to him immediately before the commence- 
ment of the said proceedings; 


part IT] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE,. JULY 19, 1956 2797 
J 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33۸ of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Arun Lal Burman, an employee of Messrs. 
Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagar, Caicutta-36, 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGALI 


PRESENT : 
Suri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Judge, First Industrial 


Tribunal. 


AWARD 

The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 3700Dis./D/100L-7/58, dated "5th October 1958, referred, under 
section 7 and 10 of the Tndustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute hetween Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
Valeutta-26, and their workmen to this Tribunal] for adjudication. The 
award of the Trmbunal on this dispute was made on 17th November 1954 
aud wag published in the Calcutta Gazette on 16th December 1964. 


Shri Arun Tal Burman, one of the workmen in the employment of the 
Company, applied on 26th July 1954, stating that the Company 010 uot 
pay iim bonus and increment due on last May. It is stated that he was 
warned and deprived of honus by an order, dated Ist April 1974, which was 
received on 24th June 1904. It is atated that this action of the Company 
was illegal and that the Company by such conduct contravened section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act. The applicant, therefore, prays for an 
order directing the Company to pay him the bonus and increment of salary. 


The Company, in its written statement, states that the application under 
section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act filed by the applicant was not 
maintainable, as it did not disclose any contravention of section 88 of the 
Act. It also states that the payment of bonus is not a condition of service, 
that it is an er-gratia payment made in consideration of efficiency and good 
work, The Company paid bonuses in October 1958 and January 1954 to 
the applicant at the rate of one month’s basic pay. In May 1954, the 
Company, on considering his records and the reports of the Department- 
m-charge, decided not to pay him the third bonus. The application under 
section 338A of the Act filed by the petitioner was not competent also on 
merits and should be rejected. 


At the time of the hearing of the case on 15th June 1956, the applicant, 
Arun Lal Burman, did not appear. Shri 8. C. Sen, Advocate, and Shri 
S. .کا‎ Dhar Chowdhury, Pleader, appeared for the Company. The case 
was, therefore, heard in the absence of the petitioner. It appears that 
there was no outstanding dispute between the petitioner Shri Arun Lal 
Burman and the Company and it is awarded accordingly. 

M. C. BANERJI, 
۱ Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
lhe 22nd June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
). S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2798 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr 1 


ee — کچھ‎ SS چچجچھھججکیتیتچچ و‎ 
ORDER 


No. 288Q@Dis./D/11L-164/55.—3rd July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government .of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 492Dis./)D | 
11L-428/54, dated the 4th February 1955, read with its corrigendum 
No. 3962Dis./D/11L-164/55, dated the 24th August 1955, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Kanehialal Lohia, 112 Chiltaranjan Avenue, 
Caleutta-7, and their senior mate Shri Subha Singh, C/o Messrs. Kanebiala! 
Lohia, on the one hand, and two of their workmen, namely, Ram Charan 
and Basanta, represented by Cossipore Jute Press Workers’ Union, 1 Joy 
Bhattacharjee Lane, Calcutta-2, on the other, regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Third 
Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Third Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is_ pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs, Kanehialal Lohia 
(Bankers & Merchants), 112 Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta, and their 
senior mate Shri Subha Singh, C/o Khanehialal Lohia, on the one hand, 
and two of their workmen, namely, Ram Charan and Basanta, represent- 
ed by Cossipore Jute Press Workers’ Union, 1 Joy Bhattacharjee Lane, 
Calcutta-2, on the other. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA 


PRESENT : 
Suri J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


Fur the workmen: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharya. 
For the Company: Shri N. K. Mukherjee, Advocate, and senior mate. 


AWARD 


1. By order No. 492Dis./D/111.-428/54, dated the 4th February 1955, 
read with subsequent corrigendum No. 3962Dis./D/ eran bre dated the 
24th August 195), the Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Depart- 
ment, referred under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the 
industrial dispute hetween Messrs. Kanehialal JTohia (Bankers & 
Merchants), 112 Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta, and their senior mate 
Shri Subha Singh, C/o Kanehialal Lohia, on the one hand, and two of their 
workmen, namely, Ram Charan and Basanta, represented by Oossipore 
Jute Press Workers’ Union, 1 Joy Bhattacharjee Lane, Calcutta-2, on the 
other, regarding the matters specified in the schedule, to the Third 
Industrial Tribunal constituted under section 7 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, by notification No. 592Dis./D/120-5/52, dated the 23rd February 
1953, for adjudication. 

2. After usual summons the parties entered appearance and filed their 
written statements. The pleadings were completed on 28th November 
1955. The parties were thereafter directed {o file list of documents. Then 
after adjournments hearing of the dispute was concluded on 25th 7 
1956. 


3. The matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of 
reference is as follows: 
(1) Is the discharge of Ram Charan and Basanta justified? What 
relief are they entitled ? 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2799 
ee جس جس “ہو‎ وسسسسد٤صمممہمم‎ 
DECISION 


Shri Ram Charan and Shri Basanta were admittedly Khatawalas or 
Khatawala Mates in Messrs. Kanehialal Lohia. It was been, contended on 
{heir behalf that they were employees of the said Kanebialal Lohia and 
were discharged by them, whereas 1 has been contended on behalf of the 
latter that they were merely contractors who used to do work of assorting 
with the help of their own men paid on the basis of outturn of their work. 


In support of their case Cossipore Jute Press Workers’ Union (hereafter 
called the ‘‘Union’’) on behalf of the workmen has examined only P.W. ] 
Shri Ram Charan Dus while Messrs. Kanehialal Jiohia has examined its 
senior mate, D.W. 2 Shri Subha Singh, the Sarkar, D.W. 3 Shri Lakshmi 
Narayan, Khatawala, D.W. 4 Shri Kamdhar Singh and Manager, D.W. 9 
Shri Sitaram Sharma besides a formal witness in the Bench Clerk of the 
Qourt of Authority under the Payment of Wages Act, D.W. 1 Shri Durga 
Prasad Mandal and filing the documents, Exts. A to E. 


Messrs. Kuanehialal Lohia (hereafter called the ‘‘baler’’) carries among 
others the business of a jute baler. As such jute baler it purchases raw 
jutes from the markets and stacks thém in the godown situated in the 
premises of ‘Messrs. Lohia Jute Press, Lid., at 28 Barrackpore Trunk Road. 
The jute baler engages men for assorting raw jute according to the quality 
and then for pressing it into pucca bales in a jute press as also for extract- 
ing jute fibre from the jute sticks. For these two kinds of work payments 
unre made on the basis of output at fixed rates—Hs, 2-8 for each pucca bale 
and a different rate for extracting jute fibre from the jute sticks. 


‘These different items of work are done by the Khatawalas or Khatawala 
Mates through their own men whose number generally varies from 2 to 6. 
These men form a gang under the leadership of the Khatawala who happens 
to be the seniormost in the party (vide P.W. 1). 


Khatawala and Khatawala Mates, it appears, are interchangeable terms, 
for P.W. 1 Shri Ram Charan Das styled himself as simply Khatawala in his 
deposition before the Court of Authority under the Payment of Wages Act 
(Ext. A), and as Khatawala Mate before this Tribunal. The men who 
work under a Khatawala Mate are called Jachandars. The number of 
Jachandars in a gang under a Khatawala varies generally between 2 and 6. 
The number varies according to the requirement of work. If the work is 
heavy the number of men is more and if the amount of work is 1688 the 
number of men engaged is also less (vide P.W. 1). 


Formerly 3/4 years ago there were 60 to 70 Khatawalas in Messrs. 
Kanehiala] Lohia. The number of Khatawalas has come down since then 
and at the date of deposition the number has been 15 to 16 (wde D.W. 2). 


Besides Khatawalas and Jachandars as aforesaid, the jute baler has 
permanent monthly paid staff in his employ. P.W. 1 Shri Ram Charan 
Das admitted that the senior mate, D.W. 2 Shri Subha Singh, second mate 
and third mate under him and the Sarkar, D.W. 3 are such permanent 
staff. They are admittedly monthly paid employees of the baler. The 
senior mate (D.W. 2) and his two subordinate mates supervise and check 
the work of the Khatawalas and Jachandars after raw jute is sorted out and 
made into kutcha bale and before it is pressed into pucca bale. While a 
Khatawala supervises the work of Jachandars under him and teaches and 
guides them in the matter of sorting the jute up to the stage of making 
kutcha bale. The Sarkar (D.W. 3), on the other hand, keeps account 
regarding the quantity of pucca bales as produced by each of the Khata- 

alas and enters them in the khatas of the baler and simultaneously in the 


2800 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr 1 
== —————— 288 88588 
hatchittas said 06. be kept in the custody of Khatawalas. From the 
accounts so maintained the Khatawalas used to be formerly paid fortmyhtly 


and for some’ time past weekly. In this way the operation of jute baling 
18 carried on. 


According to the Union, Shri Ram Charan and Shri Basanta were 
workmen of Kanehialal Lohia and were discharged or dismissed as they 
protested against deductions from their remuneration by the employer 
Jt was said by Shri Ram Charan that the employer used to deduct one anna 
for pinjrapole, one anna per rupee ax profit and two annas per head for 
mate subscription out of the fixed rate of Rs. 2-8 payable to them for each 
pucca bale. ‘The employer’s men denied the allegations and stated that 
Shii Ram Charan and Shri Bayanta were not at all employees of Kanehialal 
Lohia but their contractors and that they left as the work of jute baling 
came down considerably leaving no scope for sufficient earnings. 


In the case of Cooke & Kelvey, 140.) and their employees reported in 
1955 L.L.J., Vol. II, page 582, the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India 
considered the test to determine whether a person is an independent 
contractor or an employee. It has been laid down therein as follows: 


‘Under section 2(5) of the Industrial Disputes Act, a workman 
must be an employee in the industry to do skilled or unskilled work 
for hire or reward, and the work might be manual or clerical. The 
designation together with the nature of the work done should be 
considered in ascertaining if a person is a workman or not. 


A servant is a person subject to the command of his master as to 
the manner in which he shall do his work. The independent contractor 
in one who undertakes to produce a given result but in the actual 
execution of work he is not under the control and order of the othe: 
party. In the case of an employee falling within the definition it is 
the person who is engaged to perform certain services on whom 
emphasis is laid while in the case of a contractor emphasis is not on 
his engagement but only on the work to be executed and _ performed 
by him according to the requirements or specifications. While in the 
case of the former personal service becomes essential, in the case of the 
latter the personal service becomes a secondary matter.’’ 


In Salmond’s Law of Torts, 11th edition, at pages 98 and 99, the 
distinction between a contract of service and contract for services 1: 
summarized : 


“What then is the test of this distinction between a servant and an 
independent contractor? The test is the existence of a right of control 
over the agent in respect of the manner in which his work is to be 
done. A servant is an agent who works under the supervision 90৫ 
direction of his employer; an independent contractor 1s one who 
ic his own master. A servant is a person engaged to obey 
his employer’s orders from time to time; an independent contractor 18 
a person engaged to do certain work; but to exercise his own discre- 
tion as to the mode and time of doing it—he is bound by his contract, 
but not by his employer’s orders. 


This may be put in another way by drawing a distinction between 
one employed under a contract of service (a servant) and one empfoyed 
under contract for services (an independent contractor). The distinc- 
tion between a contract for services and a contract of services can be 


Part J] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2801 


summarised in this way: In the one case the master can order or 
require what is to be done; while in the other case he cannot only 
order»er require what is to be done but how itself it shal] be done.’’ 


(01১67 marks of a contract of service are:— 
**(1) the master’s power of selection of his servant, 
(119 the payment of wages or other remuneration, 
(ii1)* the master’s right of suspension or dismissal.’’ 


In collins v. Ilertfordshire County Council (1947 1 K.B. 598), 
Hilbery, J., discussed this question at pages 614 and 616. At page 616 
is the observation: 


‘‘The proper test is whether or not the higher had had authority to 
control the manner of execution of the Act in question.”’ 


In this case there is no direct documentary evidence in support ot 
either of the conflicting versions. The question whether Shri Ram Charan 
and Shri Basanta were employees or contractors is, therefore, to be decided 
having regard to the test as laid down above and the attending circum- 
stances, such as entire picture of thefr engagement, method of work, 
conduct during work, mode of payment, etc. 


The outstanding feature is that the jute baling industry has no 
regularity of work. The requirements of a jute baler are guided hy duily 
jute markets and upon the orders as are received. So a Khatawala who 
18 tto execute certain work through Jachandars on the basis of fixed rate 
cart have necessarily no regularity in the work. A Khatawala is neither 
a daily-rated nor a monthly-rated worker: the more he can produce the 
11019 he can earn. When the work is completed and the assorted jute 1s 
preased into a pucca bale he is entitled to get remunerations at fixed rate 
and not before that. The number of Jachandars under him 1s never fixed 
but varies according to requirements. According to P.W. 1, Shri Ram 
Charan Das, it varies from 2 to 6 while according to the employer’s men, 
it varies from 2 to 10. Thus the number of Jachandars under a Khata- 
wala varies according to requirements and necessity. This system ot 
work, it is obvious, 1s more বা to be executed on the basis of contract 
than by means of permanent staff. 


Regarding remuneration, it appears that it is payable exclusively to the 
Khatawalas and not to the Jachandars under him. The baler pays the 
Khatawala calculated at fixed rate per bale according to quality on the 
total bales pressed from the jute sorted out by the Khatawala and_ the 
Jachandars under him. The register regarding payment of wages shows 
payment of total dues to the Khatawalas only on the basis of output of 
pucca bales by the gang comprising the Khatawala and the Jachandars 
under him. P.W. 1 admitted in his deposition in the Court of Authority 
under the Payment of Wages Act that he used to receive the whole amount 
as were due under his thumb impression (vtde Ext. A). Before this 
Tribunal, too, P.W. 1 admitted having affixed his thumb impression in the 
register of payment of wages in acknowledgment of payment of entire 
amount due. His allegation that after such thumb impression the employer 
was distributing the said amount to him and the Jachandars 18 ea hg 
Had the employer been under obligation to pay the stipulated amount both 
to the Khatawalas and the Jachandars under them, not only the names of 
the Khatawalas but also the names of the Jachandars under them would 
have been noted in the register of payment of wages by way of obtaining 
to, go from all of them. The fact that only the names of the Khata- 
walas are mentioned in the said register and acquittance is obtained from 


2802 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Part ] 


=a a ESL a a ১ এছ e- 
them goes to show that the baler had and has obligation ip pay the 
stipulated amount only to the Khatawalas and to none else. Had the 
amount been not so exclusively payable to the Khatawalas, the Khatawalas 
would not have complained about the alleged illegal and unauthorised 
deductions from the fixed rate and brought case No. 210 of 1954 in the 
Court of Authority under the Payment of Wages Act for recovery of such 
wages as were said to have been illegally deducted. P.W. 1 admitted in 
cross-examination that all the 29 Khatawalas including himself made the 
application in the Court of Authority under the Payment of Wages Act 
regarding such illegal deductions from their dues. The fact that only the 
Khatawalas and not the Jachandars along with them brought the case 
leaves no room for doubt that the amount on the basis of output was and 
is payable by the baler exclusively to the Khatawalas. I believe that the 
hatchittas are kept in the custody of Khatawalas showing the number of 
pucca bales as are produced by them. 


Regarding appointment, discharge and control, I prefer to accept the 
evidence that it is the Khatawala who appoints his Jachandars and who 
teaches and guides them (Jachandars) in their work of sorting os _ being 
more natural and probable. Had it heen otherwise, the baler would have 
made payment to the Jachandars as well. The evidence and circumstances 
as already referred to, however, leave no room for doubt that the 
Jachandars are paid hy the Khatawala and that the jute baler has no 
obligation or connection whatever in the matter of payment to them. | 
also believe that it is the Khatawalas who grant leave to the Jachandars 
and not the baler or his men. The fact that in case of going on leave they 
do not admittedly get pay shows that they are not also employees. 


Regarding working hours, P.W. 1 said that they were to work formerly 
from 6 in the morning to 9 in the night and after intervention of the 
Factory Inspector the hours of work were reduced to 8 hours a day. He 
also said that whether there was work or not they were required to atten 
the godown daily. From the evidence and circumstances I am unable to 
accept his version as fully correct. When a Khatawala is entitled to ne 
paid at fixed rates on completion of certain works, it 18 obvious that the 
baler can have no control over the time taken by him to complete the work 
which the Khatawala undertook to do for the specified remuneration. In 
the circumstances neither the Khatawalas nor the Jachandars under them 
were under any obligation to attend on any particular day or any particular 
hour. No doubt the attendance register is being maintained for some time 
past for the Khatawalas and the Jachandars by the men of the jute baler, 
but from this it cannot be said that the Khatawalas are workmen. lt 
rather appears that it is so as the godown in which the operation of jute 
baling is carried on is situated within the precincts of the jute press 
which is_a factory within the meaning of the Factories Act having been 
operated by electric current and having more than 20 men working there. 
As it is a factory the hours of work for men working in the baling 
operation in the godown situated in the compound of the jute press canuot 
but be regulated under the Factories Act. From this, it cannot be said 
that the Khatawala is a workman or that the baler has authority to control 
the manner of execution of work. Even during those hours the Khatawalas 
und the Jachandars appear to be their own master and can work in the 
manner as they please. The baler, it appears, is under no obligation to 
provide work to a Khatawala on any given day. These, I think, are only 
consistent with the position of contractors. The mere fact that the work 
is done within the godown and it is of late regulated by the hours of-work 
us prescribed for a factory would not show that the baler has coutrol over 
the time of the workers. The time spent on the work of sorting, 1 


part I] THE CALCUTPA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2808 


ممسسس۳سمپم٤عمدمسجدہ>‏ دہ جککیچھجد و পু পাতিল‏ 


appears, is uot at the disposal of or under the orders of the baler. , The 
fact that no overtime is admissible or payable to the Khatawalug’ and 
Jachandarg under him would also support this. Thus a Khatawala, in my 
opinion, 1188 his own time and cannot be 9810 to be bound to work tor fixed 
hours. So, from the evidence and circumstances I am unable to find that 
relation of employer and employee existed between Messrs. Kanehialal 
Lohia firm on one hand and Shri Ram Charan and Shri Basanta 07) the 
other. I rather believe that Shri Ram Charan and Shri Basanta were 
contractors. It is, therefore, obvious that the Tribunal cannot give any 
relief to them. 


Regarding charge of victimisation, P.W. 1 Shri Ram Charan stated in 
rross-examination that there were altogether 29 Khatawalas in Kanehialal 
Lohia firm at the time and that all of them were members of the Union. 
Why out of the said 29 Khatawalas only Shri Ram Charan and Shri Basanta 
were singled out for victimisation has not been satistactorily explained. 
Regarding Shri Basanta, nothing was said, while regarding Shri Ram 
(Sharan, it was said that Kanehialal Lohia had usked him to leave the 
Union and as he did not oblige he was driven out. The explanation is 
unconvincing. ‘The evidence, on the contrary, points that there was dearth 
of work for the Khatawalas. P.W. 1 admitted that before partition of the 
country in 1947 the work of jute baling was very heavy and that since the 
partition the work has been going down gradually. The evidence shows 
that the number of Khatawalas has come down to 16/17. It is, therefore, 
not unlikely that Shri Ram Charan and Shri Busanta had themselves left 
finding no prospect of sufficient earnings any longer. 


I award accordingly. 


Wictated and corrected by me. 


J. MAITRA, 
Judge. 
The 21st June 1956. 
JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 
Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 
1), 8S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 2903Dis./D/4L-11(B) /56.—4th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4386Dis./D/ 
4L-6(D)/55, dated the 14th September 1955, read with its corrigendum 
No. 5645Dis./D/4L-6(D) /55, dated 26th November 1950, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. India General Navigation and Railway Co., Ltd., 
44 Garden Reach Road—Managing Agents: Messrs. Kilburn & Co., 1400.) 
Fairlie House, Calcutta, and their employees at MRajabagan Dockyard, 
represented by Dock Engineering Mazdoor Sabha of B-109 Garden Reach 
Road, Calcutta-24, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
was referred to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal for adjudication ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was filed by Shri Lalit Mohan Patra and eight other 
workmen of the said Company against the said Company, alleging that the 
said Company had punished the said workmen concerned in such dispute; 


2804 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr 1 


And whereus in exercise of the powers conferred by section ও 
: of thi 3A of 1 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1041 (XIV of 1947), the toe Tribunal ٦ 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 

٠ ' of ih 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is Smee 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate 
Tribunal) Act, 1950, filed by Shri Lalit Mohon Patra and eight others, 
workmen of Messrs. India Ceneral Navigation and Railway Co., Ltd., 
44 Carden Reach Road, Calcutta-24, represented by Dock Engineering 
Mazdoor Sabha, B-109 Carden Reach Road, Calcutta-24, against the 
aforesaid Company (case No. 426/33A of 1955). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 
Sart SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sixth Industrial Tribunal. 


The original reference out of which this case has arisen was made under 
ا‎ order No. ب1(/41-6)1((/55/.ہ7ا[4386‎ dated 14th September 
0 t7e 


This is an application under section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
by nine employees of Messrs. India General Navigation and Railway Co., 
Ltd., who have been placed under suspension without permission of the 
Tribunal during the pendency of a reference proceeding. 


The Company submitted written statement that section 88 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act was not infringed and that the suspension order 
was in harmony with the Standing Orders. 


It so happens that since the commencement of this proceeding the 
suspension order has heen withdrawn and the workers have been allowed 
to return to duty. A petition for permission to withdraw the application 
under section 383A has been filed by two of the workers. The rest of the 
workers did not appear to press the application. In the circumstances the 
Tribunal 18 competent to hold that there is no subsisting dispute. A “no 


dispute’? award 1৪ accordingly passed. 


8. SENGUPTA, 
Judge, Sizth Industrial Tribunal. 


The 2ith June 1956. 
By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


part I] THE CAIOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2805‏ 
بر رر و و رد رر نت 


ORDER 


No. 2904Dis./D/4L-11(B) /66.—4#th Jul 
7 1956.— 

BoD) 165 রি West en Labour foe ic he Poor Dy 
; এ (1 ১ 7 ated the 14th September 1905, read with 0 রি ও ] 
9, 6645Dis./D/41.-6(D)/55, dated 26th November 1955, the i x 
dispute between Messrs. India General Navigation and Railwa 0০ তায 
44 Garden Reach Road—Managing Agents: Messrs. Kilburn % 8 Ltd., 
Fuirhe House, Calcutta, and their employees at Rajabagan Dock ٦ 
sata by Dock Engineering Mazdoor Sabha of B-109 পাশ leach 
Road, Calcutta-24, regarding the matters specified in the schedule th ere 
was referred to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal for adjudication : کک‎ 


And whereas during the 1 | 
01110 _ pendency of proceedings bef 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made রি Sk. Noor Bux By ০ 
سی ا‎ of the re Company against the said Company, alleging 
کت‎ aid Company had punished the said workmen concerned in such 

And whereas in exercise of the 

۱ ١ powers conferred by section 0০4 

Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said beg 
ndjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; : 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of 

a Posie , th 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 18 oul 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 

in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by Sk. Noor Bux and seven others, workmen of 
Messrs. India General Navigation and Railway Co., Ltd., 44, Garden 
Reach Road, Calcutta-24, represented by Dook Engineering Mazdoor 
Sabha, B-109 Carden Reach Road, Calcutta-24, against the aforesaid 
Company (case No. 67 /33۸ of 1956). 

NEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 
PRESENT : 
وو‎ SATLESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sixth Industrial Tribunal. 

The original reference out of which this present complaint under section 
934 of the Industrial Disputes Act has arisen was made under Government 
order No. 4386Dia. | D/4L-6(D) /59, dated the 14th September 1909. 

This is an application under section 838A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act by eight employees of Messrs. India General Navigation and Railway 
Co., Lid., who have been placed under suspension. 

‘he Company filed written statement justifying the suspension which 
according to it was in accordance with the certifed Standing Orders. 
According to the Company section 33 was not contravened. 


The suspension order has been withdrawn and the employees have been 
taken back. They filed 8 petition accordingly for permission to withdraw 
the application under section সি ig accordingly granted. 
h ‘cation is allowed to be withdrawn. 

The application 18 ও. SENGUPTA. 


Judge, 15217 Industrial Tribunal. 
The 27th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
p. 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


2806 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr ] 
ہے‎ a Ay 
ORDER 


"No. 2942Dis./D/11L-297/55.—6th uly 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 388dDis./D/ 
11L-297 {55, dated the 22nd August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messaray Steel & Allied Products Ltd., Temple Chambers, 6 Old Post Office 
Street, Calcutta-1, and their employee Shri Jatindra Nath Rey, 8/74 Bejoy- 
garh Colony, Calcutta-32, represented by himself regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Third 
Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Third Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the sald industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Steel & Allied 
Products Ltd., Temple Chambers, 6, Old Post Office Street, Calcutta-1, 
and their employee Shri Jatindra Nath Roy, 8/74 Bejoygarh Colony, 
Calcutta-32, represented by himself. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALOUTTA. 


PRESENT : 
Suri J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


For the employee: The employee in person and Shri Chitta Ranjan [8۰ 


For the Company: Shri Sunil Chandra Dhar, Pleader, with Shri Debendra 
Nath Das, Pleader. 


AWARD 


1. By order No. 3885Dis./D/11L-297/55, dated the 22nd August 1909, 
the Governor of West Bengal, in the labour Department, referred under 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputea Act, 1947, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Steel & Allied Products, Ltd., Temple Chambers, 6 Old 
Post Office Street, Calcutta-1, and their employee Shri Jatindra Nath Roy, 
8/74 Bojoygarh Colony, Calcutta-32, represented by himself, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule, to the Third Industrial Tribunal 
constituted under section 7 of the Jndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, by 
notification No. 592Dis./D/12L-5/52, dated the 28rd February 19538, for 
adjudication. 

9 tSfter usual summons the parties entered appearance and filed their 
written statements. The pleadings were completed on 18th November 
1955. The parties were thereafter directed to file list of documents. Then 
the employer-Company filed additional written statement on 5th April 1906 
raising preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of the reference. 
The workman filed counter-statement to the same on 9th April 1956. Then 
after adjournments, the matter was heard on 7th June 1906. 


3. The matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of 


reference is as follows: — 
Whether termination of services of Shri Jatindra Nath Roy was 
justifiedP What relief is he entitled to? 


Part V] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2807 


DECISION 


Shri Jatindra Nath Roy was admittedly in the employ of Messrs. Steel 
& Allied Products Ltd. (hereafter culled the Company). The Heag (01909 
of the Company is situated at 6 Old 1১98৮ Uffice Street, while the workshop 
at 2/1 Hossais Sha Road, Kidderpore. Shri Jatindra Nath Roy admittedly 
jomed as o clerk in the workshop of the Company on lst March 1954 on a 
salary of Rs. 75 per month and subsequently got two increments when his 
pulary rose to Its. 115 per month. 119 was admittedly discharged by ao 
notice, dated 20th January 1955 (Exts. 1 und la), trom that date without 
assigning any reason. Upon such ¢ermination of employment the present 
dispute arose. 


The Company by an additional written statement filed on 65th April 
1956 took preliminary objection that the diypute referred to was not an 
industrial dispute but an individual dispute and as such the reference was 
bad in law. It was, on the other hand, contended on behalf of Shri Jatindra 
Nath Roy that the individual dispute like the present one would come 
within the meaning of the ‘‘industria? dispute’’ ug defined in the Act and 
thus the reference was competent. Reliance in this respect was placed on 
the decision of the Full Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case 
of Swadeshi Cotton Mills Company, Ltd., versus Shri Ram Baran reported 
in 1953, L.A.C., 189. 


It is not disputed that the workmen in the employ of the Company 
either in the 1190 Office or in its workshop had no Union for long even 
after termination of employment of Shri Jatindra Nath Roy. According 
lo P.W. 2 Shri Sunil Chandra Sarkar, a» Union of the name of Steel & Allied 
Products Ltd. Employees’ Congress was formed only 8 or 9 months after 
the discharge of Shri Jatindra Nath Roy. Shri Jatindra Nath Roy was 
discharged on 20th January 1955. So the Union, according to P.W. 2, was 
established some time in October or November 1955. The reference was, 
however, made by the Government long before—on 22nd August 1955. It is, 
therefore, obvious that the Union did not and could not have taken up his 
cause up to the date of reference. The evidence does not show that the 
workmen in the employ of the Company took up his cause either. 
According to the workman P.W. 1 Shri Jatindra Nath Roy, after termina- 
tion of his employment it was he who moved the Labour Directorate and 
none else. He also admitted that the employees of the Company did not 
make any demand in writing about his reinstatement up till now. It is, 
therefore, an individual dispute pure and simple which was ut no time prior 
to the reference espoused by the workmen in the employ of the Company or 
by any Union. The evidence of Shri Jatindra Nath Roy (P.W. 1) that 
the employees made verbal demand for his reinstatement before the 
Managing Director and the Works Manager before the Puja of 1955 (i.e., 
October 1966) is afterthought and unreliable. P.W. 2 Shri Sunil Chandra 
Sarkar, who claims to he the Assistant Secretary of the Union, admitted 
that they did not intervene on behalf of the workman at the time. His 
subsequent evidence that on application was made by the Union to the 
Labour Directorate for reinstatement of Shri Jatindra Nath Roy runs 
counter to the evidence of P.W. 1 and is not borne out by the records of 
conciliation proceedings and is apparently untrue. After the reference the 
workman himself filed his written statement. Only during hearing the 


2808 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 = [Parr I 


Assistant Secretary of the Union, P.W. 2 Shri Suml Chandra Sarkar, had 
been examined to say that the Union supports his cause. But his words 
of mouth would. not turn it into a collective dispute. Apart from a vague 
allegation that the workmen approached the management to roinstuate 
Shri Jatindra Nath Roy, bis additional written statement filed in reply to 
preliminary objection does not even contain a claim that the Union supports 
his cause. The case ay made out therein of his having ventilated the 
grievances of co-workers and acted in the interest of the workmen in the 
employ of the Company would not constitute a collective dispute. The 
dispute as referred to is pure and simple an individual dispute and it 
appears that it was at no time either ‘before or after the reference taken 
up by the workmen of the Company or any Union. 


Now the question is whether an individual dispute like the present one 
can be said to come within the language of the definition of ‘‘industrial 
dispute’ in section 2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It has, of 
course, been so held by the Full Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal 
in the case already referred to, but then, on behalf of the Company, 
reliance has been placed on the two decisions of the Calcutta High Court 
reported, respectively, in 55 C.W.N., 256 and 57 C.W.N.,, 169, wherein 
it was held that an individual dispute was not an industrial dispute as 
defined in the Act. It was also pointed out to me that the Madras High 
Court as also the High Court at Patna had similarly held regarding the 
question (vide A.I.1. 1951, Madras, 616 and 1..1..J. 1954, Volume II, 21). 
As the decisions are not uniform, the question arises which is to be followed 
by the Stute Tribunal. Under article 227 of the Constitution, every 
টা in the State is subject to the judicial supervision of the State High 
Court. It being so, it is obvious that the law laid down by the High 
Court is the law as far as that State is concerned and every Tribunal in 
that State is bound to accept that law. His Lordship Chagla, C.J., of 
Bombay’ High Court also so observed in the case between Gambhirji 
Odharji and Labour Appellate Tribunal of India and others reported in 
1965 L.L.J., Volume II, page 202. In the circumstances following the 
decisions of the Calcutta High Court, T find that the dispute as it 1s, is not 
an industrial dispute and as such the reference is incompetent. The 
preliminary objection must therefore succeed. The Tribunal cannot, 
therefore, give any relief to the workman Shri Jatindra Nath Roy. 


Had it been otherwise, I would have found that the termination of 
employment of the workman without assiguing any reason was not justified. 
According to the written statement of the Company, the said Shri Jatindra 
Nath Roy was appointed in a post on probation for one year on lst March 
1954. سن‎ to both sides, the said Shri Jatindra Nath Roy had served 
at the date of termination of employment for about a year. The Company, 
according to both sides, has no standing orders. As per Model Standing 
Orders, a probationer is a workman who is provisionally employed to fill a 
permanent vacancy in a post and has not completed three months’ service 
therein. In the circumstances when the workmen had completed more than 
three months’ service, he censed to be a probationer and must be deemed 
to have been permanent and the Company had no right to discharge him 
in the way aa it did. He could not have heen treated as a temporary work- 
man either as it was not alleged or proved that he was engaged for work 
which was of an essentially temporary nature likely to be finished within 
a limited period. The Company’s case during hearing that he was surplus 
and as such was discharged cannot be sustained as the evidence of the 


Past 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2809 


Company's witness, D.W. 1 Shri Santosh Kumar Sen Gupta, shows -that 
after the dischayge of Shri Jntindra Nath Roy another clerk was appointed 
in the workshop. As, however, the preliminary objection succeeds, no 
relief can be afforded to the workman. 


It 1s awarded accordingly. 
Jictated and corrected by me. 


J. MAITRA, JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 
Judge. Judge, Third Industrial Tribunol. 


The 26th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
1). S. 1১, MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 2934Dis./1)/141,-6/55.—6th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 5541Dis./D/ 
1416/55, dated the 24th November 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Hooghly-Chinsurah Municipality, Muficipal Office, Hooghly, 8100 their 
workmen répresented by Hooghly-Chinsurah Municipal Employees’ 
Association, Municipal Office, Hooghly, regarding the matters specified in 
nie طر‎ thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial 
ribunal ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint was filed before it against the said Municipality by 
Shy Gobinda Kinkar Dutta ond three other employees of the said Munici- 
pality alleging that the Municipality had discharged the said workmen 
conterned in such dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
)0 71 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure heretu. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section ھ33‎ of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by (1) Shri Cobinda Kinkar Dutta, (2) Shri Murali- 
dhar Palit, (3) Shri Lakshmi Narayan Modak and (4) Shri Amiya 
Kumar Majumdar, employees of Hooghly-Chinsurah Municipality, 
against the said Municipality, Municipal Office, Hooghly. 

BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 

PRESENT: 
Snr G. P. MUKHERJER, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal, 
Appearances : 

For the employees: Shri Biswanath Ash, Advocate. 

For the Mumcipality : Dr. Kamal Krishna Seal, Commissioner, Hooghly- 
Chinsurah Municipality. 
The original reference, out of which this complaint arises, was made to 

this Tribunal under Government order No, 6541Dis./D/141.-6/55, dated 

24th November 1956. 


2810 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr I 
= 


AWARD 


The contention of the employees is that they put in over 18 months’ 
continuous, satisfactory and effictent service in their respective capacities 
under this Municipality, but they were discharged with effect from 12th 
February 1956 by the Municipal authorities, without taking express 
permission in writing from the Tribunal, before which the main case was 
then pending. 


The Municipality, that is the opposite party, contended that the 
applicants were purely temporary employees, and as such no permission of 
the Tribunal under section 33 of the Act was necessary for discharging 
them. The Municipality has further stated that it did not require any 
longer the services of these employees, and accordingly terminated their 
services with effect from 12th February 1956 with one month’s notice. 
It may be stated in this connection that the Municipality filed a supple- 
mentary written statement at the time of hearing raising some legal 
objection as to the maintainability of the present complaint. 


1 shall disposo of the legal objection first. It is contended by the 
Municipality that notice on the Municipal Commissioners by ٥۹ 
complainants under section 68901) of the Bengal Municipal Act should 
have been served hefore filing the present complaint under section 33A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act before the Tribunal. Section 535 of the Bengal 
Municipal Act, 1932, says that no suit or other legal proceedings shall he 
brought against the Commissioner of any Municipality for any 801 
purporting to be done under that Act, or any rule or by-law made there- 
under until expiration of one month next after notice in writing has been 
delivered or left at the office of such Commissioners. In my view, no such 
notice, as contemplated in section 535 was required for the present case, 
because the present case can neither strictly be deemed to be a suit nor 
other legal proceedings brought against the Commissioners of Hooghly- 
Chinsurah Municipality within the meaning of sectior 535 of the Bengal 
Municipal Act. The Act complained of in the present case, originated 
during the pendency of the main dispute before this Tribunal, in respect 
of which a reference waa already made by the Government for adjudication. 
So, the present application cannot be deemed to be a suit or independent 
legal proceedings—it is rather an offshoot of the original dispute. Further- 
more, J am not aware of any authority, in which it has been held that 
section 535 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932, applies also to industrial 
disputes between the Municipalities and their workmen, referred to the 
Tribunals by the Goverument for adjudication. So, section 535 of the 
Bengal Municipal Act can have no application to the present case. Section 
548(2) of the Bengal Municipal Act mentioned also in the supplementary 
written statement of the Municipality, does not obviously apply in the 
present case. Accordingly, the legal objection as raised in the supple- 
mentary written statement is overruled. 


Next point that is urged on behalf of the opposite party is that these 
employees, who have been discharged, happened to be temporary hands 
and they were not permanent employees of the Municipality. So, 1t was 
argued that the question of obtaining permission from the Tribunal under 
section 33 of the Act did not and could not arise. I may say straightway 
that there is no substance or merit in this argument. Section 33 can have 
no application where temporary emplovees are entertained for a specific 
purpose or for a specific period. In such an event, their employment comes 
to an end on the conclusion of that purpose or of that period. It cannot 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2811‏ ۷۱ کترہ 


০ 77525555555 
pe denied that the appointment ‘of tentporary hands terminates when that 
riod is over and when that work is ftnished. Such termination is 
nutomatic more or Jess. In such a case, of dourse, no permission of the 
Tribunal is necessary. In the instant cuse, if the employees when enter- 
tained had been told that their services were for the temporary period for 
specific work or purpose, then their employments would cease, when that 
eriod 18 reached, or that purpose and the job are accomplished. But I do 
not find sufficient evidence on the record in the present case to justify the 
yiew that the employees knew that they were being entertained for a 
temporary perod for specific purpose and job. There is no such evidence 
وم‎ to the object or the period of their’employment. They were no doubt 
taken In a8 temporary clerks, but it is proved that they continued in their 
services for more than 18 months, and they got also increments. In the 
circumstances, they could not be discharged without the permission of the 
Tribunal, Admittedly, at the time when they were discharged, the main 
dispute was pending before this Tribunal. Yet no permission of the 
fribunal was taken while discharging them. In my view, prior permission 
1 the Tribunal was necessary, even though these employees happened to 
he temporary hands. I may say in this connection that section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act is not confined to permanent employees only—it 
applies to all workmen. So, the termination of services of these four 
petitioners without the permission of this Tribunal, was contravention of 
section 99. In the circumstances, the Tribunal holds that the present 
application under section 88۸ is competent. If any authority is needed for 
such ty view, 1 would refer to the decisions reported in 1954 1.1.4. (i), 809 
ind 1963 L.L.J. (ii), 882. 


It ia. now well settled that where section 33 has been contravened, the 
Tribunal mut enquire into the merits of the discharge or dismissal on ao 
complaint being made-under section 33A. As the complaint has to be 
investigated by the Tribunal, as if it were a dispute referrd to or pending 
hefore it, the scope of investigation on the merits must exactly he the same 
where the subject matter of the challenged discharge or dismissal had 
heen the subject matter of an independent reference under section 10 of 
the Act. The merits of the impugned discharge are, therefore, to be 
considered by the Tribunal. This leads me necessarily to enter into the 
merits of the discharge of the petitioners. Of the four employees, Shri 
Muralidhar Palit, though he signed the petition of complaint under section 
۵۸۸ did not appear hefore the Tribunal at the time of hearing to depose. 
The lawyer and also the Secretary of the Union said that they had no 
instruction on his behalf. The other three employees did not say anything 
material regarding Shri Palit. In the circumstances, the Tribunal refrains 
from adjudicating upon his case, which ia kept open. Regarding the other 
three petitioners—Shri Gobinda Kinkar Dutta, Shri Amiya Kumar 
Majumdar and Shri Lakshmi Narayan Modak—they have all deposed before 
this Tribunal. It appears from the evidence that Shri Gobinda Kainkar 
Dutta was appointed as a clerk in the Tax Department of the Hooghly- 
Chinsurah Municipality on 3lst March 1954 and worked till 11th February 
1956, and the other two clerks, that 1s Shri Amiya Kumar Majumdar and 
Shri Lakshmi Narayan Modak joined their appointment in the said 
Municipality on 2nd June 1954 and worked till 11th February 1956. They 
got increments in course of their employment. There 1s nothing to show 
that they were found inefficient, or their work was _ unsatisfactory. 
PW. 2 Shri Amiya Kumar Majumdar has deposed that four persons were 


2812 THE CALCUTTA UAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 = [Parr ] 


taken in by the Municipality after their diacharge, and they were appointed 
on 29th March 1956. So, it eannot be believed that the services of thegg 
three employees had to be terminatgd for faucity of work, and this state. 
nent of Shri Amiya Kumar “Majewhdar stood unchallenged and 
uncontradicted. The Municipality has adduced no evidence to show that 
since the discharge of these three employees, they did not take new clerkg. 
O.P.W. 1 Shri Nitya Gopal Bose, Accountant, who deposed on behalf of 
the opposite party, has not said a word about -% in his evidence. Sp» 
it appears that the Municipality could not satisfy the Tribunal as to the 
real reason why the three employees mentioned abdWe were discharged fron 
12th February 1956, although they jsut in about two years service under the 
Municipality. The very fact that new hands were taken in immediately 
after the discharge of these three employees, indicates that they were not 
really discharged for paucity or want of work for them in the Municipality, 
but they were discharged with some ulterior motive. For reasons best 
known to the Municipality, the authorities wanted to getrid of them. The 
fact remains that though the appointments of these three employees were 
temporary, their appointments were for an indefinite period, and __ the 
employees continued in their service for a pretty Jong time. Therefore, the 
Municipality could not take shelter behind the plea that their appoint. 
ments automatically came to an end without any action on its part. So, 
the order of discharge in respect of these three employees should he set 
aside, because they were discharged without the permission of the Tribunal 
and also without good reasons. The application, therefore, succeeds ৪0 
far as it relates to these three employees. 


Accordingly, it is ordered that these three employees—Shnri Gobinda 
Kinkar Dutta, Shri Lakshmi Narayan Modak and Shri Amiya Kumar 
Majumdar—be reinstated in their former posts or in posts equivalent 
thereto carrying similar pay and other emoluments within 15 days from 
the date of publication of this award in the Calcutta Gazette. Shri 
Lakshmi Narayan Modak and Shri Amivya Kumar Majumdar shall get back 
pay and dearness allowance at the rates last drawn for the entire period 
from the date of their discharge till reinstatement. As regards Shri 
Gobinda Kinkar Dutta, he will get such back pay and dearness allowance 
for the period from the date of his discharge till 4th May 1956, because it 
appears from his evidence that he has been working in the School Board 
in a leave vacancy since 5th May 1956. The payments as directed above 
should be made also within the period mentioned above. 


No adjudication is made regarding the complaint of Shri Muralidhar 
Palit for the reasons stated already. Huis case is kept open. 


This is the award of the Tribunal. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJED, G. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. Judye, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
23-6-1956. 


The 23rd June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9, P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy 


part V] THE CAILUTTA GAZETTH, JULY 19, 1956 2813 


শে‏ لد 


(00017 


No. 209201016. /7)/151.-16/56.—6th July 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
pument of West Bengal sabour,Jepattment, order No. 2780))18. / 1) /161- 
16/54, dated the 3lst May 1994, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
jyncori Sadhu Khan and Sons,: 242/8, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta-4, 
and their workmen represented hy Tincori Oi] Mill Mazdoor Congress, 9 
Raja Raj Krishna Street, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified in the 
schedule thereto was ref¢rred for adjudication to the Fourth Industrial 
Tribunal ; 


And wherens during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tri- 
bunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Gouri Kurmi and 15 other 
workmen of the said Company against the said Company, alleging that the 
said Company had punished the said workmen concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
{adustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Govern- 
ment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
00118) the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an application under section 3GA of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Couri Kurmi and 15 others against Messrs. 
Tincori Sadhukhan and Sons, 242/3 Upper Circular Road, Calcutta, in 
connection with an industrial dispute between Messrs. Tincori Sadhu- 
khan and Sons and their workmen ropresented by Tincori Oil Mill 
Mazdoor Congress, 206 Cornwallis Street (room No. 18), Calcutta, 
referred under Government order No, 2780Dis. /'D /15L-16 /54, dated 1 
May 1954 (case No. 26 of 1955). 


REFORE THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAT, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAT, 


PRESENT: 
Smet 8. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal, 


For the Union: Shri Parima] Das, President, Tincori Oi] Mill Mazdoor 
Congress. 


For the Company: None. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
sttion 88۸ of the Tndustrial Disputes Act was filed by Shri Gour: Kurmi 


2814 11114 CALCUTTA GAZETYE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr | 


und -16 others on the allegation that they were permanent workmen ‘Under 
Messrs. Tincori Sadhukhan and Sons, that they were working as dhaing 
coolies or assistant ghanimen, that while the above dispute was pendiy 

the Company dismissed the applicants with effect from 16th December 1954 
by way of punishment without taking previous permission from the Tribung| 
under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that ip addition to conta. 
vention of section 33 of the Industrial )isputes Act, the opposite party 
has acted mala fide and arbitrarily aud the charges levelled against the 
applicants prior to dismissal were false and designed to get rid of them by 
hook or crook without least regard for truth or justice, that the applicant, 
submit that the Company dismissed-the petitioners by way of victimisatiyy 
and unfair Jabour practice, that in the circumstances the petitioners pra 
for immediate reinstatement with full wages and continuity of service and 
other reliefs. 


Notice of the uforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application filed by the applicants contains various allegations which 
are elther baseless or imcorrect or distortion of facts, that the Company 
admits that the applicants were dismissed with effect from 16th December 
1954 for gross misconduct in systematically flouting the lawful order of the 
Company, deliberately absenting themselves under a concerted plun as and 
when they pleased and staging illegal strikes, that by a notice, dated 2311 
February 1954, the opposite party was compelled to lay off some workers, 
that immediately some demonstrations were made by petitioners along with 
other workers but nothing untoward happened, that thereafter the opposite 
party by a notice, dated 27th February 1954, asked the laid-off workers ty 
join their duties with effect from 27th February 1954 and 28th February 
1954, but unfortunately not only laid-off workers but some, other 
workers who were not ان۸(‎ off including some of the petitioners, 
disobeyed-- that order ond remained absent, that in June 1954 the 
cpposite party secured some urgent orders for execution whereof it became 
necessary to start a third shift by recruiting some additional casual worker, 
that the Company failing to recruit the new hands, made an arrangement 
ما‎ run three shifts by dividing the permanent workers into three proups and 
allotting one group to the third shift by a notice dated 28th June 1954, but 
all the workmen including some of the petitioners who were allotted to the 
third shift refused to work ond remained absent, that the Company issued 
charge-sheeta to them, that they submitted their explanations which were 
apparently false, that the opposite party warned the workers, that in August, 
1954, the Company laid off some workers, but when asked the said worker 
10 join their duties they did not join, that the opposite party warned the 
workers, that on 16th November 1954 again the company laid off some 
workers, but when the Company directed the workers to join their duties 
somé’on 28th November 1954 and some on 29th November 1954, they did not 
join, so they charge-sheeted them, that the workers submitted their expla- 
nation on 80th November 1954 and thereupon the opposite party enquired 
inte the matter and found the petitioners guilty and in the circumstances, 
in the interest of its business and maintenance of discipline in the mill, the 
opposite party had no other alternative than to dismiss the workers which 
they did by their letter, dated 16th December 1954. 


AWARD 


On 10th May 1956 the petitioners filed an application for withdrawing 
their case under section 994 of the Industrial Disputes Act. I have 


met 1] THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 6 2816 


ongdered their petition fot withdrdwal of the case und I allow their prayer 
and 88 the case has been withdrawn 1 make & ‘‘no dispute” award in this 
vase. Lhe petition for withdrawal of the case will form a part of this 
qward, 


Ss. 0. MUKHERJI, 


a 7 Judge, Fourth Industrial Tribunal. 
The t une 8 ٠ 


ANNEXURE 


REFURE SHRI S. C. MUKHERJI, DISTRICT JUDGE, JUDGE, 
FOURTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, GOVERNMENT OF WEST 
BENGAL, CALCUTTA. 


In the matter of Government order 
No. 2780Dis./D/15L-16/54, dated 8۷ 


May 1964 
And 
دا‎ the matter of an application under 
section 3A of Industrial Disputes Act 
And 
In the matter of Gouri Kurmi and 16 
others .. Applicants, 
versus 


Messrs. Tincori Sadhukhan and Sons 
Opposite party. 
Petition on behalf of the applicants. 
MOST RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


As the case of applicants has been referred to Third Industrial Tribunal 
along with other issues (vide Government order No. 1525Dis. /D/151.-3/565, 
dated 7th April 1954), the applicants desire to withdraw the application 
under section 338A of Industrial Disputes Act, placed before Your Honour. 


It is prayed that Your Honour would be kind enough to pass order 
accordingly. For this act of kindness the applicants will remain ever 
erateful. 


0 behalf of the applicants. 
PARIMAL DAS, 
President, 


Tincori Oil Mill Mazdoor Congress 
he 3rd May 1956, 


Calcutta. 

(1) GOURI 1 11۰+ 

(2) BISHUNATH KAHAR. 
(3) BHUBAN SADHUKHAN. 
(4) BHAROSE ۷ ۰ 
(6) GANESH KOHAR. 

(6) SORJO PASHI 


2816 THE GALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Pari | 


জল 
এগার আহ 


(7) DALSINGAR 17077۰ 

(8) RAM DAS. 

(9) BRITTANT] KEWAT. 

(10) RAMPROSAD TEL. 

(11) JHAGRU KOHAR. 

(12) BALDEO AHIR. 

(13) AUDHNARAYAN GORAI. 
(14) JAGANNATH 0۰+ 

(15) MAHAMMAD SIAJUDDIN 


(16) SEBAK KOIRI. 
٠. 0. MUKHERJI, 


Judge, Fourth Industral Tribunai. 
The 25th June 1956. 


order of the (tovernor,‏ ڑا 
১. P. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy‏ .)1 


CORRIGENDA 


No, 2973Dis./D/111-84/56.—10th July 1956.—In the seeond line from 
the top of the second paragraph under the heading ‘Issue Nos. 1 980 2 
of the order of reference, dated 13th May 10957, at page 2454 in Part 4 of 
the Calcutta Gazette, dated fist June 1010, of the award published im the 
said Gazette on pages 2449-2460 under Government of West Bengal, Labouw 
Department, order No, 2462Dis./1)/111,.-84/55, dated 5th June 1946, for 
the word ‘“‘peak’’ read “‘pink’’. 

2. In the seventh and forty-third lines respectively from the top under 
the same heading of the said award at page 2456 of the said Gazette, for 
the words “engrained’”’ and ‘‘closed’’ read “‘ingrained’’ and “close"’ 
respectively. 

3. In the third line from the top under the same heading of the said 
award, at page 2457 of the said Gazette, for the word ‘‘overtimes’’ read 
“overtures’ . 


4. In the fifteenth line from the top under the same heading of the said 
award, at page 2467 of the said Gazette, omit the word ‘‘that’’ after the 
word ‘‘yastify’’. 

6. In the sixteenth line from the top under the same heading of the said 
award, at page 2457 of the said (tazette, omit the words “was justified?’ 
after the name “Hriday Prokash (thosh’’. 


6. In the ninth line from the top under the heading ‘‘Issue No. °%. 
Reference, dated 8th June 1955", of the said award, at page 2458 of the 
anid Gazette, for the word “of”? substetute “within”. 


7. In the eleventh line from the top under the heading ‘Issue No. 1” 
of the aaid award, at page 2460 of the said Gazette, for the word 15768701660 
read “‘resulted in’’. 
By order of the Governor, 


D. 8. P. MUKHERJEK, Jt. Secy. 


PaRt 9 THE CAILCUTTA 08/1521]15, JULY 6 2817 
58৯ ্ল্শল্লললললললীল 
DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND SUPPLIES 


(Food and Supplies) 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 6786F.8.—30th June 1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the Governor 
| pleased to make the following rules to regulate the pay of the staff in 
the Food, Relief and Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department, viz. :— 


RULES 


1, With effect from 186 April 1956, every member of the staff in the 
Food, Relief and Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department who holds a 
post specified in column 2 of the annexed Schedule shall draw pay in the 
revised scule shown in column 4 thereof: 


Provided that if he was in service in the department on dist March 
1966 and has been continuing in the départment since then he may, at 
hie option— 


(৫) draw pay in the revised scale, with effect from the day following 
the date of increment, if any, falling due after the Jlst March 
1956 in the present pay of the post held by him on the 3lst 
March 1956, or 


(by) retain the present pay in the post held by him on 818۲ March 
1956 as well as in the post or posts to which he has been or may 
hereafter be promoted or transferred within Food, Relief and 
Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department. 


3. (a) The option under proviso (a) or (8) to rule 1 shall be exercised 
in writing tbh— 


(1) the Head of office, in the case of non-Gazetted Government 
servants; and e 


(1) Accountant-General of West Bengal, in the case of Gazetted 
Government servants; 


within 30 days of the publication of these rules in the Offciul 
Gazette. A person on leave at the time of publication of these rules may 


ও his option within 30 days of the date of his return from such 
eave. 


(b) The option exercised under this rule shall be final and cannot be 
modified at any subsequent date. 


8. The initial pay of a person who is liable to draw pay in the revised 
scal® shall be fixed as follows:— 


(৫) Where the aggregate of the present pay and the ad-interim 
increases in pay as admissible on 3lst March 1956 is less than 
the minimum of the revised scale, the initial pay shall be fixed 
at such minimum. 


(5) Where the aggregate of the present pay and the ad-interim 
Increases in pny as admissible on 918 March 1956 is equal to 
or higher than the maximum of the revised acale, the initial 
pay shall be fixed at such maximum and in the latter case, 
the difference shall be treated os personal pay. 


2818 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr T 
০55৮ - = Se ——= 


(০) In other cases, ut the stage which is equal 10 the aggregate of 
the present pay and the ad-interlm inqeases admissible to nim 
on 3lst March 1956 or if there be no such stage, at the stage next 
below that pay, plus personal pay equal to the difference. 
and in either case the period during which the present pay 
was drawn may be counted for increment in the sume stage op 
if the pay was intermediary between two stages, in the سا‎ 
stage of the time-scale. 


Exzplanation.—Persons to whom sub-rule (6) of this rule applies and 
who have completed more than one yeur’s service on same pay 
at ad-hoc rate on 818٢ March 1956 shall be entitled to one 
increment from Ist April 1956 as only one increment can be 
earned at a stage in a time-scale, irrespective of the number 
of years of service rendered on the same pay at ad-hoc rates, 
Similarly, such a person who draws pay in a time-scale and 
has rendered 12 months’ service or more on same pay on 8lst 
March 1956 shall be entitled to draw one increment in the 
revised scale, with effect from Ist April 1956. 


4. A person exercising option under provision (a) to rule ] shall 
retain his present pay and the ad-interim increases in pay till the date 
immediately preceding the date on which he becomes subject to the revised 
scale of pay. Where the option is exercised under provision (0) to rule |, 
ad-interim increases in pay, 11 any admissible to him, shall be drawp till 
the date of the increment, if any টি?) due after 318۲ March 1956 in the 
post held by him on 8lst March 1956. Thereafter they shal] be treated 
88 personal pay to be absorbed in future increments. 


5. No member of the staff who draws pay in the revised scalés shall 
be entitled to draw the ad-interim increases in pay but shall continue to 
sc the dearness and other allowances as admissible under the existing 
orders. 


6. For the purpose of these rules— 
(৫) ‘‘Present pay’’ in relation to any post means— 


(i) pay on time-scale mentioned in column 3 of the annexed 
Schedule, as admissible to the incumbent of such 1081 
immediately before Ist April 1956; and 


(tt) the ad-hoc rate of pay as indicated in column 3(a) of the 
annexed Schedule, subject to refixation, if any, allowed to 
the incumbent of such post pror to lst April 1956 in terms 
of Government of Bengal, Department of Civil Supplies. 
Financial Adviser’s Office Memo, No. 2681F.A., dated ۵ 
4th September 1946. 


(b) ‘‘Ad-interim increases in pay’’ means the temporary increases 1D 
pay sanctioned under— 


(0 Government of Bengal, Chief Minister’s Department 
(Establishment Branch) Memo. Nos. 1474Kstbts./S/5R-66 
46, dated the 6th May 1946, 1917Estbts./S/5R/22A /4/, 
dated the 9th July 1947. 


(16) Government of Bengal, Department of Civil Supplies Memo. 
No. 10857D.C.8., dated the 9th July 1947. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2819 
শি আর 
7. Nothing in these rules shall apply to— 


(a2) Persons who left the department on transfer or otherwise on or 
before 3let May 1966. 
(b) Re-employed Officers. 
(c) Part-time employees. 
(৫) Officers appointed on contract. 
(e) Officers who draw honorarium for their services. 
(f) Government servants on deputation from other departments draw- 
ing pay— ۰ 
)( in the scales admissible to them in their parent offices, or 
(৮) in ae of the West Bengal Services (Revision of Pay) Rules, 


ہے ہک تہ ےہ ہش وج شش ےس এ eS EPS‏ عم 
LS EE EE OP eS es Sey ES‏ ہہ مس ہہس ہم سے سے dee‏ ےجرد রস‏ 


— 


8. Unless otherwise provided in these rules, West Bengal Service 
tules, Part I, will apply in respect of all the matters dealt with in those 
rules. 


9. All cases of doubt or any other case, which is not covered by those 
rules, shall be referred to thia department for specific orders of Govern- 
ment. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. K. GUPTA, Jt. Secy. 


[ee 


SCHEDULE | 
(Present and Revised Scales of pay in successive stages of twelve months’ sorvice) 


Present pay. 
Serial Numo of 8۵ Revised scale of 
No. Scale. Ad-hoc rates pay. 
excluding ad- 
interim pay. 
1 2 3 302) d 
Re. Rs. a. 
1 |Deputy Controller of | 500—30—800 
11177087809, plus special 
pay of Ra. 100. 
1A | Deputy Controller _ of 7 760 0 
Rationing. 
2 | Assistant Controller of | 400—20—600 
Finance, 
8 | Assistant Director (Move- es 575 0 
ment). Rs, 2560-20-0 
4 | Works Manager, Transpor- oe 565 0 —25—750. 
tation. 
& | Asmstant Director (Consumer oe 450 0 Efficiency bar 
Goods), 425 0 after 10th and 
6 | Asmatant Regional Controller oe 550 0 18th stages. 
of Procurement. 375 0 | 
7 | Special Officer (Rationing). . ee 525 0 
6689 0 
8 Rationing Officer, 01888 ٤ .. ee 425 0 
9 | Subdivisional Controller of ae 400 0 
Food and Supplies, 


Class I, 


2820 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, +1956 [Parr ] 


Serial Name of post. Revised scale of 
No. Scale. Ad-hoc rates pay. 
excluding ad- 
inter)m pay. 
1 2 3 902) 4 
Ra Ra. a 
10 | Special Officer (Railwa -۰ 475 0 Rs, 450—15—600, 
Claims) and Stock ٥۰ 
fication Officer. 
6 Assistant Manager re Ks 470 0 Ra, 450—15—600, 
i2 | Assistant Director (Statis- 7 $30 0 
tics). 
13 | Assistant Director (Con- 7 250 0 
sumor (30009), 
14 | Assistant ۵6۴م‎ ও 330 0 
Officer (Gov ornment 
Stores). 
15 | Subdivisional Controller of - 250 0 
Food and Supplies, 300 0 
Class IT. 375 0 
315 0 
360 0 
(including 
special pay). 
16 | Deputy Aagsistant Regional ٦ 300 0 
Controllor of Procure- 
» mont. 
16A | Special Officer (Inspection) an 315 9 
17 | Rationing Officers, Class 1 sis 300 0 
18 | Technical Officer 7 400 0 Rs. 200—10—420 
—15—450. 
19 | Technical Officer hs 7 8560 0 
Efficioncy bar 
20 | Tochnical Officor .. | 300—25—400 - after 1008 and 
18th stages. 
21 | Recoipt and Despatch { 400 0 
Officor. 350 0 
22 | Special Officer (Accounts), ° ৪৯ 
Transportation. 
93 | Officer-in-Charge, Govern- 5 400 0 
ment 100৫ Depot. 
94 Officer-in-Charge, Govorn- 5 350 9 
ment Food Depot 
25 | Building Superintendent .. 7 $50 ৪ 
26 | Assistant Engineer ٠ is 850 0 
27 | Motor Transport Officer... oe 300 0 
28 | Assistant Controller of -۰ 800 0 
Rationing. 
29 | Supervisor (Inspection 7 899 0 
irectorate). 
30 | Chief Inspector os 7 250 0 
31 { Permit Officer 7 -7 250 0 


*Present incumbent of the post draws pay in the scale of Rs. 270-2012-850 plus & রা 
pay of Ra. 50 for holding the post in addition to his duties as Assistant Chief Accounting Officer. 


Part I] 


সপ 


রশ 


Serial Name of post. 
No. 


32 | Deputy Chief Inspoctor .. 


93 | Inspestor Assessor ne 

34 | Chiof Samplor ae 

96 | Special Assistant (Consumer 
Goods), 

36 | Liaison Supervisor ۰ 

37 | Personne! Manager 7 

ag | Assistant Supervisor 7 


99 | Technical Assistant (Storage) 
314 Superintondent, Grade I 


40 Inspector ,. ee 
4] | Junior Assessor ye 


41۸ Assistant Personnel Mana- 


ger. 

42 Sampler ae oa 

43 | Technical Assistant 
(Storage). 

44 | Car Examiner 

45 | Area Foreman i 


46 | Night Foreman 
47 | Store Keeper (Inspection) 


48 | Officer-in-Charge (Forms 
and Stationory). 


49 | Statistical Assistant 


(Rationing). 

50 | Statistical Assistant (Statis- 
tics). 

51 | Statistical Assistant (Pro- 


curement). 


52 | Assistant Store Keoper 
(Transportation). 


Scale. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2821 


Prosont pay. 


Ad-hoc "۵ Revised scale of 
excluding ad- pay. 
interim pay. 
3(a) 4 
Ra. a 
150 0 
175 0 
200 0 
200 0 
200 0 
200 0 Rs, 125—5—240 
200 0 Efficiency bar 
after 12th 
200 0 stago. 
300 
(consolidated), 
200 0 
200 0 
125 0 
Rs. 100—4—180 
—5—200. 
Efficioncy bar 
after 12th stage. 
160 0 
250 0০ 
(consolidated). 


2822 


সপ সস সব স্ জ 


60 


61 


63 


64 


65 


66 


67 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 10, 1956 


Name of post. 


Sub-Inspeotor 
Local Auditor 7 
Supervisor (Rationing) 


Despatch Rider (Transpor- 
tation), 


Assistant Store Kooper 
(Rationing). 


Night Watchman (Trans- 
portation). 


Inspector (Enquiry) 
Commercial Accountant .. 


Head Accountant (99০01. 
০8186), 


Chief Accountant (Govern- 
ment Stores). 


Treasurer (Secretariat) 


Accountant (Secretariat) 


Assistant Accountant 


(Secretariat), 


Assistant Treasurer (Secre- 
tariat). 


Superintendent (Controller 
of Finance). 


[Parr | 


(৩০১০০০২০৯০8 পর میچے۔--‎ ০ 
সপ হা صا کا‎ যা eee! পরা oe -> 


57555১০০১০৬ 


Present pay. 
Rovised acalo of 
30910, Ad-hoc rates pay. 
excluding ad- 
interim pay. 
8 3(a) 4 
১৯২54 4 
Re. Ra, a. 
is 75 0 
Rs. 80—4—160—- 
5—180, 
Efficiency bar 
after 12th ৪৪06, 
8৪ 177 1 
(consolidated), 
a 92 0 
2560-20-0 oe Ra. 300—10—400, 
270—20/2—350 ৪ এ Rs. 300—10—400, 
oe 350 9 Rs. 300—10—400. 
250—10—260— ٠ Ra. 276-10-5. 
20/2—300. 
130—15/2—-160 Ra, 2560-5-0, 
—20/2—200 
plus a special N. B.—Special pay 
pay at 10 per in the prerent 
cent. acale shall be 
deemed to be a 
part of the pay 
for the purpose 
of fixing the 
initial pay in the 
revised 80810, 
180—15/2—160 ee Rs, 200-——5—250. 
—20/2—200. 
130—15 /2—160 7 Rs, 200—5—250. 
—20/2—200. 
150—15/2—180 oe Rs. 150—4—230— 
—20/2—300 —§—250 plus 8 
plus a special special pay of 
pay of Ra. 40. Ra. 40. 
Efficiency bar after 


12th stage. 


wer 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZEITE, JULY 19, 1966 2823 
রি <= a Sheed oe ee ں سے سر .سے ج۸2 مس‎ a تح تہ سس تس‎ 
Prosent pay, 
serial Name of post. Scale, Ad-hoc rates Itevised ৪0819 of 
No. excluding ad- pay. 
interim pay. 
] 2 8 3(a) * 4 
টিক 
Ra. Res. a. 
68 | Accountant (Controller of | 150—15/2—180 oe 
Finance). — 20 /2—800. 
Rs. 150—4—230 
09 | Senior Accountant (Trans- | 150—15/2—180 oe —5—250. 
portation). —20/2—300. 
Efficiency bar 
70 | Junior Accountant (Trans- 7 200 9 after 12th stage. 
portation). 
71 | Accountant (Procurement) ৪ ৬ 200 0 
72 | Office Superintendent... 
: Ra. 150-10-0. 
oe 150 0 Efficiency bar 
73 | Superintondent (Grade IT) after 12th stage. 
74 | Head Assistant ** | 116—20/2—215 Rs. 150—6—210 
—- 25 /2-—290 plus a special pay 
—20/2—350 of Rs. 40 per 
plus a apecial month 
pay of Ra. 40 
per month. 
75 | Gharge Assistant ১» | 115—20/2—215 7 Rs. 150—6—210 
——25 /2—-290 plus a special pay 
—20/2—350 of Rs. 25 per 
plus @ special month. 
pay of Ra. 25 
per month. 
76 | Upper Division Assistant... | 115—20/2—-215 * 
—25 /2—290 
(4) 8۰ —20/2—350. 
(8) Sugar Section. 
(t4#) Consumer Goods. 
ve 12۱58۲1611. 
(4) Procurement and 
Supply. 
(৮8) Transportation. 
(vit) Controller of Finance, 
(৮৪28) Storage. 
(tz) Inspection. 
(2) Construction. 
(xt) Special Officer (In- Re. 150—6—210. 
spection). 
764 | Tracer (Controller of es oe 
Financo). 
17 a i Division Assistant | 110—20/2—130 ee 
(Inspection). —§ /2—140— 
15 /2—-156. 
18 | Upper Division Assistant es 150 0 
(Controller of Finance). 
79 | Upper Division Assistant -۰ 120 0 
(Transportation). 155 0 


2824 
ze | 7 ee ee 
Serial Name of post. 
No. 
1 2 
80 | Head Clork (Rationing) .. 
81 | Head Clerk (Rationing) .. 
82 | Upper Division Clerk 
(Rationing). 
88 |] Accountant (Rationing) .. 
894 | 4441) Grade Clerk (Trans- 
portation). 
84 | Accountant (Rationing) .. 
86 | Stenographer— 
(+) Rationing و‎ 
(88) Procurement and 
Supply/Controller of 
Finance. 
(871) Transportation/ 
Storage. 
86 | Chief Cashier .. 
¢ 
87 | Cashier (Controller of 
Finance). 
88 | Assistant Accountant 
(Secretariat). 
88A | Assistant Accountant 
(Secretariat). 
89 | Assistant Accountant 
(Secretariat). 
90 | Assistant Cashier (Seore- 
tariat). 
91 | Upper Division Clerks 
(District) — 
(t) Distribution. 
(46) Storage. 
(484) Procurement and 


Supply @ 


THE CATOUTTA ('NZETTE, 


Se Ee 


Present puy. 
Scale. Ad-hoc rates 
oxgluding ad- 
interim pay. 
3 3(a) 
Ra. Ra. a. 
—15/2—115 
—20/2—175. 
0 100 9 
80—85-—5 /2— 
120. 
110—10/2—-130 os 
—6 /2—140— 
5 /2—156, 
a 100 0 
ہے‎ 125 0 
150 ০ 
80—10/2—120 oe 
—15/2—240. 
5 ৪ 150 0 
80—5 /2—105— 
10/2—156, 
oe 150 0 
‘ 150 0 
60—5 /2—70— . 
6/2—130. 
60—5 /2—70— ٠ 
6/2—130 plus 
& special pay 
of 10 per cent, 
৮ ৪ 90 0 
oe 100 0 
80—85—5 /2— ee 
120. 


JULY 19, 


1956 [Parr | 


SS SEE 


aa Allg 


Revised acalo of 
pay. 


» 160-60 


150—6—210, 
130—5—180, 
130—5—180, 


1390-5-0 


130—5—140, 


Rs. 100—4— 189 
—§—200). 


Efficiency bar 
after 12th stage, 


Rs. 80—4—160—5 
—180. 


Rs. 80—4—160—5 
--- 880, 


in the present 
acale shall be 
deemed to be a 
part of the pay 
for the purpose 
of fixing initial 
pay in the revised 
scale. 


Rs. 80-——4—160—4 
— 180. 


Rs. 80—4—160—5 
—-180. 


Rs. 110—4—150. 


টি সিট উস 000 ১১ 


Parr Ij THE 0۸177۸ GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2828 
ছল ্্্ল্ল্্গা ল্্্্্ঙ্্জঈ 
۱ Present pay. 
Serial Nagne of post. 99910, Ad-hoc rates | Revised scale of 
0. oxcluding ad- pay. 
interim pay. 


105 


106 


107 


108 


Nazir (Rationing) 7 


Accountant (Storage) .. 


Assistant Inspecting 
Accountant. 
Nazir (Secretariat) Ka 


Chief Permit Clerk (Ration- 
ing). 


Cashier (Rationing) 
Cashier (Rationing) us 
Cashier (Transportation) .. 


Cashier (Storage) র 


Cashier (Rationing) i 


Assistant Cashier (Ration- 
ing). 


Lower Division Assistant 
(Calcutta). 

Corrospondence Clerk (Con- 
sumer Goods). 

“B*’ Grado Clork (Trans- 
portation), 


Comptomoeter Operator— 
(t) Transportation. 


(#¢) Controller of Finance. 
(444) Rationing and Distri- 


bution. 
Statistical Typist -۰ 
Statistical Clerk-oum- 
Typist— 
($) Secretariat oe 


(%) Statistics 
(88) Consumer Goods *, 
Programme Clerk-cum- 
Typist. 


80—85—5 /2— 
120. 


60—5 /2—70— 
6 /2—130. 


60—5 /2—70— 
6 /2—130. 


60—5 /2—70— 
6 /2—130. 


45—5 حم اتد‎ 
3/2—90 plus & 
“fia pay of 


8(a) 


Ra. 68 aaa 
cial pay of 
Ra. 20, 


Efficiency 


‘ 


Re. 110—4—150. 


[১৪ 110—4—150. 


Rs. 70-—3—]18— 


—4—150. 
Efficiency bar 
after 12th stage. 


Ra. 70—8—118— 


4—150. 


bar 
aftor 12th stage. 


pay on the pre- 
sent scale shall 
be deemed to be 
a part of pay 
for the purpose 
of fixing initial 
pay صا‎ the 


revised soale. 
a 


2826 
—_—— - স্পস্প 
Serial Name_of post 
2 
1 2ً 


109 | Computor— 


(8) Rationing and Distri- 
bution. 
41) Statistics, 
(st¢) Consumer Goods 
(8৮) Procurement and 


Supply. 


110 | Lower Division Clerk 7 


($) Rationing and Distri- 
bution. 
(৮৫) Procurement and 
Supply. 
(82) Storage. 
(8৮) Transportation. 
(v) Zonal Offices. 
(vf) Barrackpore and 
Hooghly Ration- 


ing. 
111 | Typist ٠ 7 
($) Rationing and Distri- 
bution. 
(86) Consumer Goods. 
(41) Procurement and 
Supply. 


(tv) Transportation. 
(v) Controller of Finance. 
(vi) Storage. 
(vit) Inspection. 
(wits) Special Officer (In- 
spection). 
(tz) Special Officer (Con- 
struction). 


112 | Typist 7 


(4) Rationing and Distri- 
bution, 


(%) Storage. 


113 | Typist—Consumer Goods 
114 | Typist— 


(¢) Procufement and 
Supply (Mofuasil). 
(4) Consumer Goods. 
(441) Rationing and Distri- 
bution. 


115 | Despatcher (Rationing) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


۰ - ز_ .1 Can‏ کی پر شی Sa‏ 


Present pay. 
90810, Ad-hoc rates 
excluding ad- 
interim pay. 
. 8 3(a) 
Ra. Ra, a. 
: 80 0 
35—5 /2—40— 60 0 
4 /2—68—3 /2 
—§80. ‘ 
| 
۱ 
3 /2—90. : 
۱ 
35—5 /2—40— 
4 /2—68—3 2 
—80. 
45—5 /2—70 
45 0 
45—65 /2—75— 
3 /2—90. 


[Parr T 


ee ee ae ہو _ ےچ‎ 


Revised scale of 
pay. 


Rs. 70—3—118— 
رای‎ 


Efficiency bar 
after 12th stage. 


Rs. 65—3—118— 
4—130. 


Efficiency bar 
after 12th stage. 


119 


120 
12] 
122, 
128! 
1241 


125 
126 
127 


128 
129 


130 


pant I] 
Serial Name of post. 
No. 
] 2 
টিটি 
116 | Junior Accountant (Pro- 


curement and Supply). 


Nazir (Procurement and 
Supply). 


Nazir (Rationing) 


Telephone Operator 


Mechanic (Transportation) 
Boring Machine Man 
Blackemith ., 

Mechanic (Transportation) 


Mechanic (Storage) as 


\Driver 7 রে 
Drivor 7 
Fittor a+ 7 


Weighment Clerk (Storage) 


Compounder (Transporta- 
tion), 


Poddar and Cash Sarkar— 


(8) Rationing 
(4) Transportation 


(tt¢) Controller of Finance 


Assistant Pay Clerk (Secre- 
tariat Accounts). 


Collecting Sarkar ۰ 


Mochanic (Transportation) 


Assistant Electrician 


+ 


সপ 7 = 


Present pay. 


Scale, 


40—2/2—80 . 
40—2/2—50 . 


40—2/2—50 . 


Ad-hoc rates 
excluding ad- 
interim pay. 


3(a) 


eo 


Ra. a. 


60 


60 


133 


0 
(consolidated). 


0 


০১ ০০ ০ — ক 


ت 


৩৮০ oo ৫ 


oo نہ‎ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 6 2827 


Rovised scale of 


| 
| 
| 


pay. 


Rs. 55-—3—118— 
4—130. 


Efficiency bar 
aftor 12th stage, 


Rs. 90—4—130. 


Ra. 70-79-7105, 


Ra, 65-—]—-58— 
2—100. 

Efficiency bar 
after 12th stago. 


Ra. 50—1/68—2 
—80. 


Efficiency bar 
after 12th stago. 


2828 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 = [Parr ] 
সস সস ৯৯২ 
Prosont pay. ۲ 
Serial Name of post, Revised acale of 
No. Ad-hoc rates pay. 
excluding ad- 
interim pay. 
] 2 3(a) 4 
ہے وسمسویسہپسووست-:وسچححہد دسح‎ ٠ 
Rs. a 
135 | Assistant Carpenter 45 0 
136 | Tinsmith 55 0 
137 | Assistant Tinsmith ‘ 35 0 
Rs. 50—1—68—.2 
139 | Assistant Blacksmith ; 35 0 Efficiency bar 
after 12th stage, 
140 | Tailor = 50 0 
141 | Assistant Tyroman ٠ 386 0 
142 | Viceman ٠ 400 
143 | Record Supplier : ৪৪ Ra, 35—1/2—40 ~ 
Efficiency har.after 
12th stage. 
144 | Mevhanic Cleaner : 30 0 Rs. 30—-l1—35—2 
4, 
145 | Duftry oe 7 15 0 Rs. 30—1/2—85— 
] 
146 Sukani ee ee 26 0 Rs. 35—]—40—2 
' —50. 
147 | Picker a 30 0 Rs. 30—) /2—35— 
1—45, 
148 | Laskar 7 18 0 
149 | Orderly Peon ৮৪ |] 
13—1 /5—17 
Office Peon .. - 
150 | Peon, Darwan, Night Guard, 13 0 
Mazdoora, ete. 
161 | Mazdoor 
رف‎ 12 0 
Chowkidar Rs. 20—!] /4—325. 
152 | Sweeper ۱ : 12 0 
153 | Chowkidar 20 0 
154 | Night Guard .. - 18 0 
155 | Mazdoor ۰ 40 0 
(consolidated). 
156 | Ex-Soldier 7 50 0 Rs. 3৮---1---40--8 
(consolidated). —50. 
(consolidated), —50, 


pari I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 2829 


APPENDIX 1 


Model Forme for exercising option under Notification No. 6786F.8., dated 
the 30th dune 1956 


FORM I 


ilu be used by a person to whom clause (a) under proviso to rule 1 of 
Notification No. 0780%.8.১ dated 380th June 1956, applies. ] 


চি 83578745755 weeeeey holding the post of 
سس ہت‎ রন হরর রাযজ্রা দ্র নর রা 7 +/ك‎ 9-70 
تا‎ the: টি / Directorate 08575758555 544888555৯5 وم بجی رومیت سومی ہب‎ ۱ 
do, hereby, elect to come under the revised scales promulgated with the 
Government of West Bengal, Food, Relief and Supplies (Food and 
Supplies) Department, Notification No. 6786F.S., dated 30th June 1956, 
الام مات‎ LEONI سوہ سب‎ নর , م0(‎ day following the date 
of my increment falling due after the 3lst March 1956, in the present pay 
of the post held by me on the 3lst March 1956. 


2. The option hereby exercised is final and will not be modified at any 
subsequent date. 


(Stgnature.) 


2830 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr [1 
সা SS TTS a al 


APPENDIX 1 


FORM 1 


[To be used by a person to whom clause (b) under proviso to rule | of 


Notification No. 6786F.S., dated 80th June 1956, applies. ] 


রা جح ےت ہہ‎ ভার রর , holding the post of 
inthe: 5066 176 হাত 10777585155 
do, hereby, elect to remain on the present pays in force prior td the 
promulgation of the revised scales under (Government of West Bengal, 
Food, Relief and Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department Notification 
No. 6/86F.S., dated 30th June 1956, until I cease to be in the employ of 
the Food, Relief and Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department, 1.9.) in 
the post held by me on 8186 March 1956 as well as in the post or posts to 
which I have been or may hereafter be promoted or transferred within the 
Food, Relief and Supplies (Food and Supplies) Department. 


2. The option hereby exercised is final and will not be modified at any 
subsequent date. 


(Signature.) 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 6 2831 
রিল 


APPENDIX ۷ 


Form of Initial Pay Statement (vide Notification No. 6786F.8., dated 
30th June 1956) 


(1) Department ی۳ب/71ت‎ 0000007 +09999 


2) Name and designation of the Government servant whose pay is proposed 
টির 52755 4 


(5) Scale of pay or fixed pay of the present 1008৮,.,,,,০,১১১১১০১১০০০০০৯০১০৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪০ ৯৬ 


Pas, ud-interim pay, special pay, etc. (to be shown separately) on 31st 
March 1956 or other crucial date...............ccssesees یریپ تی‎ 


(6) Date from which pay as per item (4) is being drawn.............sscecsee oe 
16) Revised scale in which pay is proposed to be fixed.........cccsecscescseveees 


1) Revised pay as proposed (personal pay, if any, to be shown separately) 


(8) Date from which the revised pay will apply 


(9) Date of next increment 


Signature and designation of the Head of the Office. 


_ سیا‎ No. C207 


THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1956 


مد [রেস‏ 
ممسرم 


Part 1A—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
amd Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF INDIA, 
CALCUTTA 


Appeal No. Cal.-16 of 1955 


Shri Prakash Chandra Chanda, one of the employees of 
Messrs. Bengal Potteries, Ltd., 15 Paymental Garden 
Lane, Calcutta-15 ... Appellant. 


000٤ 


Messrs. Bengal Potteries Ltd., Calcutta-15 w. Respondents. 


in the matter of an appeal against the award of the Second Industrial 
Tribunal, West Bengal, dated 13th December 1954 (published ۱٢ the 
Calcutta Cazette of 30th December 1954—p. 4248). 


Dated, the 29th March 1950 | 
PRESENT: 
Suet کا‎ . SIDDIKI, President. 
Suri E. KRISHNAMURTHI, Member. 


Appearances : 


For the Appellant: Shri VD. Iu. Sen Gupta, Advocate, with Shri H. ہا‎ 
Roy, Pleader. 


For the Respondents: Shri S. C. Sen, Advocate, with Shn K. JD. Sen, 
[14৮0০] Officer of the Company, 


State: West Tengal. 
Andustry; Engineering. 


Tribunal,, West Bengal, dated the I3th December 1954. The issue that 


This appeal is a against the decision of the Second Industrial 
dicatjon Was: 
‘Whether dis 


15521 of Shri Prokash Chandra Chanda was juatified P 
What reat 


was referred tor .ad} 
: he is entitled ۰۶ 


2. The 18075] Wrbunal has found that the employee in question waa 
guilty of misggyduet nd that his dismissal from service is justified, und 
that Je is nef entitled to any relief, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


ee سر‎ wee Ce سے‎ সপ 


০০০০০ 
পপ পাত 


8 ‘Phe contention on behalf of the appellant is that the finding of 
the lower Tribunal cannot be supported, and that the decision 1s wrong. 
It is important to note that no uppeal lies against an order of dismissal 
for misconduct unless there is a substantial question of law under section 
7(1) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950. It is 
however argued that there is a substantial question of law because 6 
dismissal is thoroughly arbitrary and summary, that no opportunity was 
given to the appellant to vindicate himself, und that the dismissal is 
opposed to the principles of natural justice. The second ground urged is 
that in any case the punishment that has been awarded is too severe. 


4, In the first place, taking the contention that the dismissal is 
opposed to the principles of natural justice, reference may be made to 
Ex. A which purports to be the charge-sheet and also the order of 018- 
missal. It is alleged therein that the appellant drew the wages illegally 
of tour workers with the help of the thumb impression of other workers, 
and that moreover ‘‘some workers who were in (General Manager's 
Bungalow on a Sunday in the month of January 1948, did not receive their 
payme..t by the same Babu, though the cash had been handed over to him’’. 
The order of dismissal states, that there is a breach of trust against the 
workers, and that the Company as per Standing Order No. 18(1)(a) 
terminated the services of Shri 1১, (0. Chanda from loth March 1948, 


5. The contention on behalf of the appellant is that he was ill from 
small-pox, that he returned from leave on 16th March 1958, and that then 
he was served with Ex. A and was made to sign it. It is argued that 
there was no opportunity given to hin to defend himself, and that without 
enquiry the summary dismissal cannot be supported. Of course, if Ex. A 
al stood by itself that would amount to arbitrary conduct on the part 
of the Management. However, it is well recognized that in such circeum- 
stances the Management is at liberty to establish the truth of the charge 
against a workman in an enquiry before the Industrial Tribunal. The 
Manugement have sought to prove the charge against the employee before 
the lower Tribunal by adducing evidence. The lower Tribunal had the 
evidence of Shankar and Sohara, two workmen and also of the Works 
Manager Dutta, and the Security Othcer Narayan Singh. On behalf of 
the Management Shri Shankar Nayak deposed, that in January 1948 he 
went on leave, und that he returned from leave and asked tor his arrear 
.دہج‎ when he was told by the then pay clerk that he had already received 
wages by putting thumb mark on the pay sheet. Then he went to Prakash 
Babu who told him that he had received the wages und that he would pay 
him the amount on a subsequent date. Later Prakash Bahu paid the 
amount and at that time Prakash Babu was on leave. The witness says 
that the Manager took his thumb impression on a blank paper, and that 
this was compared with another thumb impression trom the wage sheet. 
Sohara, P.W. 2, deposed that he did not get wages, and that on his coming 
back trom leave Prakash Babu and Sarkar Babu told him that the wages 
lying deposited in the office would be paid on the 28th. But he did aot 
get the wages on that date. He filed an application to the Manager, that 
is Kx. C. He got his wages after he filed the upplication. Narayan Singh, 
the Security Officer, sent the confidential report, Ex. D, dated 15th March 
1948, to the Works Manager, after the workers came to him on the 10th 
or 12th March 1948 and complained that they were not getting their un- 
claimed wages. Budhan and Sohara gave him the reports (1938, © and C/1). 
On consulting weekly pay sheets he learnt that thumb impressions appeared 
against their names showing puyment of wages. During the course of this 
enquiry he came to know that Prakash Babu had also drawn the wages of 
Shankar and the latter told him that Prakash Babu had paid his wages 
from his house. In the presence of the Works Manager the reports were 
shown to Prakash Babu, and the latter replied that generally wages werv 
drawn for the convemence of the workers. :ہ1‎ cross-examination Shri 
Narayan Singh deposed thaf Prakash Babu was the head of the General 
Department when he was in service. / 11৬ adm.tted that during his enquiry 
he did not look into any record, ا‎ the attendance register and the 
pay sheets. Shri Narayan Singh denied the suggestion in cross-examina- 
tion that the complaints in the case had been brought up against Prakash 
Babu for the purpose of this case. Shri Dutta, the Works Manaar-- 
deposed to the fact of his submitting the report Ex. F «v0 fhe General 
Manager. When the witness questioned Prakash abu regarding the 
allegations made by the workman, the latter replied qhat he had drawn the 
wages to avoid delay in inaking payment of unclaimed wages to the absent 
workmen and that he had no bad intention. ‘Shrj Dutta explains that pav 
disbursing clerks had no authority to withdraw wages 3 حم‎ false thumh 
impression and that it is illegal. He further states tha¥ = Prakash Babu 
admitted the allegation, but said that what he had done was done with che 
best of motives. Prakash Babu also fell at the General Manager’s feet 
and asked for his forgiveness. Shri Dutta mentions that he believed the 


৮7 ০ made by the workmen concerned in the matter of-which he had 
proof. 


) ۹ 
٦ 


৯০ 


Parr TA] 
اپ‎ 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 6 


০৯ সস 


6. The learned judge had evidence before him which he accepted ani 
helieved, and on the basis of this evidence he came to the conclusion that 
there were satistuctory grounds for the dismissal. The evidence on 
behalf of the Mannpement has been believed and it has been held that 1 
1s suthcient to support the charge of misconduct. The question of sufticiency 
or insufficiency of evidence 1s not a question ot .۳نا‎ Whether this 
Tribunal would have come to the same conclusion on the evidence on 
record 1s an entirely a different matter. The evidence of the Management's 
witnesses has been accepted as true, and it has been held that it is sutt- 
cient to support the charge of misconduct aguinst the worker. Our atten- 
tion has not been drawn to any circumstances calling for interference with 
the said finding. There is no question of Jaw involved in this appeal, ind 
we are unable to hold that the decision of the learned Tribunal is un- 
acceptable for any reason. 

¢. The seeond point urged is that the punishment that has been 
uwarded 0৭ too severe in the circumstances. It can by no means be held 
that the termination of service of the workman in view of the offence with 
which he was charged is* out of all proportion in the circumstances of the 
case. We dechne to accept this argument. 

8. There are no gorunds for interference with the decision of the 
lower Tribunal. The appeal is accordingly dismissed. No order as_ to 
costs. 


K. SIDDIKI, President. 
(7. KRISHNAMURTHI, Member. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF INDIA, 
CALCUTTA, 


Appeal No. Cal.-3 of 1955. 


The workmen of 81 88718, G. C. Bysack & Co., represented by Shri Hara Lal 
Chakraborty ... Appellant. 


versus 
Messrs. G. C. Bysack & Co., Calcutta ... Respondent. 


in the matter of an appeal against the award of the Third Industrial 
Tribunal, West Bengal, dated the 17th November 1954, published in 
the Calcutta Gazette of 2nd December 1954 (p. 3821). 


Dated the 4th April 1956. 


PRESFNT: 


Sur S. B. SINGH, President, 
Surr K. 0. GUPTA, Member. 


é 


Appearances : 


For the Appellants: Shri Parimal Das, President of the Union. 
For the Company: Shri N. 1). Manna, Bar.-at-Law. 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry: Engineering. 
DECISION 


This is an appeul trom an award of the Third Industrial Tribunal, West 
Bengal. The issue reterred to the Tribunal by Order No. 2671Dis./D/111- 
129/54, dated the 25th May 1954, was ‘“‘whether the workmen are entitled 
to have any bonus tor the year 1953۲ What should be the amount thereof?’ 


2. The learned Tribunal rejected the claim. Hence this appeal by 
the workmen. 

3. At the hearing of the appeal, an application was moved on behalf 
of the Company tor adjournment on the ground that Shr: Manna, Bar.-at-Law, 
engaged for the Company had to go out of Calcutta and would not 
return before the 8th April 1956 and that the Managing LTurtner was 
indisposed. We rejected the application. 

4. The workimen’s representative argued thot bonus for the year 1925: 
was payable as customary Puja bonus which had become a condition of their 
service. ‘he Company has been in existence for 80 to 90 years. It has 
paia bonus only m two years. During the year 1949, it paid Puja 00705 
equal to seven days’ wages while in the year 1950, it paid Puja bonus equal 
to nine daya’ wages. No honus was paid either prior to 1949 or in [1 
and 1952. It was not even claimed in the years 1951 and 1952, though it 
hud been paid in the two previous years. 


5. Appellanf’s:case is that in 1951 and 1952, there was no Union and, 
therefore, no demand could be made. Conceding only for the sake of argu- 
ment that aheence of a Umon may be a 8990 reason for the workmen’s 
inubility to, make or press a demand for bonus, still for a claim to Puja 


296 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 (Parr TA 
٢ 
সা پت لس ٹج چچجچچچجچ جس سج جچت تس ےت چس -سجچیسسسےٌ.یسپشکسیسبیپیٹتٹ بب--ے-‎ ০০০০ 


bonus as a condition of service it has to be shown that it has been paid durmy 
17111) good number of years from which a custom may reasonably be 
widersed. The number of years may differ according to the facts of each 
مت‎ it is not the workmen’s case that bonus was a condition of service 
as uo result of any agreement. They asked the Tribunal to infer it from 
the employer’s conduct of paying it during the years 1940 and 1950, which 
wie said to be years of loss. Non-payment 01 Puja bonus during 1951 and 
1952 mdicates that the employer did not like to continue the practice 
stated by him in 1949. Even assuming that the Company paid Jdurga 
Puja bonus in spite of losses in 1949 and 1940, can it be said in this case 
that bonus had been paid during a sufficiently large number of years, in 
order to lead to the inference that it had hecome a condition of service? 
We answer the question in the negative. 


Next, it was agued alternatively that the Company had not proved‏ ۔نا 
any loss in the year 1953 and therefore, bonus should be ordered to be paid‏ 
to the workmen as ordinary bonus. The Company filed audited balance-‏ 
sheet. Workmen’s prayer was allowed by the Tribunal for inspection of‏ 
the audited accounts. It has been urged before us for the workmen that‏ 
the Company did not give inspection of its accounts. If so, then a com-‏ 
plaint should have been made in writing to the Tribunal. We cannot‏ 
accept the workmen’s case that an oral complaint was made to the Tribunal.‏ 
On the other hand, the gentleman who submitted today the application for‏ 
adjournment on behalf of the Company, produced before us a copy of letter‏ 
addressed to the workmen’s representative, that the Company’s accounts‏ 
were open for inspection and nobody was turning up. Acknowledgment which‏ 
had been obtained from the workmen’s representative was also produced‏ 
to prove that the letter had been received by him. The signature on the‏ 
acknowledgment was admitted before us by the workmen’s representutive‏ 
It is clear from this that the workmen did not like to avail of the opportu-‏ 
nity of examining the Company’s accounts. From the balance-sheet we are‏ 
satisfied that the Company suffered loss during the year in question.‏ 
Therefore, no bonus can be granted to the workmen. The appeal is, there-‏ 
fore, rejected. No order as to costs.‏ 

S. B. SINGH, President. 


K. 0. GUPTA, Member. 
IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF INDIA, 


CALCUTTA 
Appeal No. Cal. 244 of 1954 
Balgopal Das Iron & Steel Mazdoor Union ... Appellant, 
وت‎ VETSUS 
Balgopal Das Iron & Steel Co., ۰ .. Respondent. 


In the matter of an appeal against the award of Shri M. N. Gan, Judge, 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, made on 26th July 1954, in respect ot 
an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 11th May 1956. 
PRESENT: 
Surt 5. B. SINGH, President. 
Siri V. N. DIKSHITULU, 21621711057, 


Appearances : 
For the Appellant: Shri Patit Paban Pathak, Officer of the Union. 
For the Respondent: Shri M. Mazumdar, Factory Manager, 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry: Kngineering. 


DECISION 


This appeal is preferred against the award of the Second Industrial 
Tribunal, West Bengal, dated 26th July 1954 and published in the 
Caleutta Gazette, dated 19th August 1954, under the orders of the Govern- 
ment of West Bengal No. 3809])is, /D/10L-162/54, dated 31d August 1954, 
by which retrenchment of 95 workmen, dated Jdth May 1953 and lay. cft 
of some other workmen in two batches on Ist June 1903 and Ist July 1903 
made by the Company were found to be justified. At the time of hearing 
of the appeal the appellant gave up the appeal in so far as it ghallenged 
the finding of the lower Tribunal in respect of the lay off and confined fhe 
arguments only against the finding in respect of the retrenghment. 


2. ‘The lower Tribunal examined in detail the finanojal and trading 
position of the Company as disclosed in the oral evidence of the Manager 
and in the documentary evidence produced by the Company and came to 
the conclusion that there was general decline in the business and fall in 
the production of this Company which manufactures to orders vil containers 
and drums and supphes them to dealers in oil and vegetable ghee aud that 
there was nominal profit of Rs. 47 in the year 1902 and وط‎ 1088 of 


[art TA] 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


کس ہے ے جح ہم مس ہے موہ ٹمکسکجسوسوسبسسجے سس cr ললঙ‏ 


Rs. 74,325 in 1953 and that production fell heavily by May 1953 and that 
there was dearth of orders. There is no evidence on the side of the 
appellant to meet the oral and documentary evidence offered by the 
Company. The curious argument advanced by the appellant is that no 
evidence was adduced because the burden of proof was on the Company. 
But the Company adduced evidence to discharge its burden and the effent 
of that evidence will stand unless تی‎ by counter-evidence. The 
learned representative of the appellant had practically nothing mote 10 
suy against the above finding of the lower Tribunal. 


3. The learned representative of the appellant submitted that im 
making the retrenchment, the Company was actuated by ulterior motives 
und that his case stands or falls by 1 and submitted that the Union came 
into existance on 10th December 1952, submitted its charter of demands 
on 3rd March 1953, a joint meeting was convened by the Labour Comnnis- 
sioner on 5th May 1958 and that the retrenchment took place on 911 May 
1953 and the meeting did not take place and that the Manager brought 
about the retrenchment without notice and without the previous sanction 
of the Directors of the Cempany and that these facts show that the 
retrenchment was not bona fide and was made to punish the workmen for 
having formed a Union and put torward demands, 


4. If the decline in business and fall in production and lack of profit 
in 1952 and loss in 1953 be not true, the above facts urged by the 
appellant may be useful to show that the Company might be actuated ۷ 
ulterior motives. But in view of the unchallenged proof of that decline 
in business, and fall in production due to dearth of orders, and loss, it can 
only be concluded that there was un unfortunate coincidence of the bad 
days on which the Company fell and the time chosen by the Union to ۶ 
forward its charter of demands. So far as the lack of previous sunction 
of the Directors is concerned, we cannot see liow it affects the nghis اہ‎ 
the workmen one way or the other. So fur as workers are concerned 
subsequent approval of the retrenchment is as fateful to them as a previous 
sanction for retrenchinent. Hence there cun be no_ difference Mateo 
previous sanction and subsequent approval in so tar &9 bona fides of the 
Company are concerned. We are not able to find that the Company was 
actuated by ulterior motives in eftecting the retrenchment. 


§. It is satisfactorily proved by documentary evidence that all the 
retrenched men were temporary hands with o short service of about turee 
months. Still the Company voluntarily paid four days’ wages 28 
retrenchment compensation and workmen willingly received the same and 
passed receipts. The lower Tribunal ordered 15 days wages in lieu of 
notice to be paid to the retrenched workmen, but the Company has not 
chosen to appeal. These circuinstances also indicate the bona fides of the 
workmen. 

6. We are in entire agreement with the lower Tribunal in holding 
that the retrenchment was necessitated by bona fide trade reasons, the 
business having been on the decline und loss having been suffered. There 
has been no challenge in this appeal on the number of men retrenched or 
selection of particular persons for retrenchment, Originally 60 persons 
were proposed to be retrenched but five persons were cut out from that 
list. The remaining strength of the establishment has remained constunt 
from May 1958 till now showing that the retrenchment could nov be 
excessive. Under these circumstances ithe lower Tribunal was _ perfectly 
correct in not awarding reinstatement or more compensation tu the 
retrenched men. Hence this appeal is dismissed. We award no costs 1.8 
the appeal is on behalf of retrenched and unemployed workmen. 


S. B. SINGH, President. 
V. N. DIKSHITULU, Member. 


IN THE HONOURABLE DORA لان تا‎ TRIBUNAL OF INDIA, 


UTTA 
Appeal No. Cal.-203 of 1954 
Gulf O11 Workers’ Union, Calcutta ... Appellant, 
ig VETSUSs 
Messrs. Gulf Oil (India), Ltd., Calcutta we dtespondent. 


In the matter of an appeal against the award of Shri M. .ا‎ Chakravartti, 
Judge, Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, made on 2nd June 1954 in 
respect of an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 27th January 1956. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. M. N. GAN, President. 
Mr. V. N. DIKSHITULU, Aember. 
Appearances : 
Kor the Appellant: Shri J. Pandey, Officer of the Union. 
For the Respondent: Shri 8S. .کا‎ Mullick, Solicitor, Sanderson & Morgan, 
Calcutta. 

State: West Bengal 
Industry : 


DECISION 


This appeal is preferred by the workmen of Messrs. Gulf Oil (India), 
Ltd. (to be hereinafter referred to as the Company), represented by Gult 
Oil Workers’ Union, Calcutta (to be hereinafter referred to us the Union) 
against the award of the Sixth Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, dated 
Od June 1954, and published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 191 July 1954, 
under the orders of the Government of West Bengal, No. 3048))is./D/5)- 
11/54, dated 19th June 1994, Two issues were referred to the lower 
Tribunal for adjudication, viz., (1) bonus, (2) whether the Compauy was 
justified in terminating the services of Shri T. C. Mehta. What relief 1s 
i entitled to? Both the issues are subject matter of this appeal and will 
be dealt with one after the other in the above order. 


2. fssue No. 1.—The workmen claimed one month’s wages 7৭ bonus 
for the years 1951 and 1952 in addition to one month’s wages paid as Puja 
bonus in each of the said two years voluntarily by the Company. The 
lower Tribunal rejected the claim for 1901 on the ground that it was 
belated having been made only towards the end of 1902 and rejected the 
claim for bonus for 1952 on the ground that the Company suffered huge loss 
in that year. It is conceded that in the year 1902 there was loss. Hence, 
there can be no valid claim for bonus by way of participation in the 
prosperity of the concern in that year. In 1951, there was a net profit 01 
Rs, 63,609 for a period of 14 months according to the balance-sheet. 
Hence, for 12 months the proportionate profit should be Rs. 56,022. Tasn- 
tion thereon comes to Rs. 23,684 as shown in the memorunduim of caleulation 
filed by the Company before this Tribunal. Sia per cent. return on nine 
lakhs of rupees which is the paid-up capital of the Calcutta branch of the 
Company to which the present dispute relates, comes to Ks. 64,000. 10591) 
without taking into account any other pnor charges, there will he no 
aviuulable surplus left over according to the Full Bench formula of the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal. Hence, there can be no valid cluim for bonus 
by way of participation in the prosperity of the concern in 1951 also, even 
if the cluim be held not belated as held by the lower Tribunal. 


۹. Obviously for above reason, the appellant’s learned representative 
before this Tribunal urged that the claim to bonus in this case is not by 
way of profit sharing but that it has been a condition of service of the 
workmen of this Company to be paid bonus represented by two months’ 
Wages per annum and that half of it is payable in September before Pujas 
and the other half in April irrespective of profit or loss. This is a clear 
atter-thought and a variation of the Union’s case. In paragraph 10 of the 
written statement of the Union filed betore the lower Tribunal, it was 
urged that one month’s wages were paid as bonus at the time of Puja and 
another month’s wages were paid as bonus out of profit every year and that 
in 1951 and 1952, no bonus out of profit was paid. Lower down in the 
same paragraph it was mentioned that bonus was u part of the wage and 
mere a condition of service than extra paymeut in consideration of profit 
vecruable, This statement reads like enunciation of the theory of the 
Union upon which the bonus has been granted in the past and does 701 
read as a statement of fact that bonus of two months’ wages was 10010 
irrespective of profit or loss. In any event, there is no evidence of —pav- 
ment of bonus in April consisting of one month’s wages in any year in which 
the Company suffered loss. Admittedly, the amount of bonus paid in 
April was not uniformly one month’s wages. There is no dispute now about 
bonus payable before Pujas in 195] and 1952, For these reasons, we hold 
that the Union has not made out a condition of service that honus of ০৪ 
month's wages should be paid irrespective of profit or loss in April of 
Abt | year. Hence, the claim to bonus as now advanced by the Union is 
hereby rejected, in agreement with the lower Tribunal, though for slightly 
different reasons. 


_ 4. Issue No. 2.—The services of Shri T. C. Mehta who was entertained 
in service on 1061) December 1948 were terminated with effect from 14 
November 1951. The lower Tribunal found that the termination was 
unjustified and awarded compensation of four months’ basic pay of Rs. 100 
and dearness allowance of Rs. 100. The Company has not preferred any 
appeal. The Union only appealed and contends that Shri T. C. Mehta 
should have been reinstated and that his claim to Rs. 27,490 under various 
heads detailed in the written statement should have been allowed. 


® As Industrial Tribunal, unlike a Court of law governed by the law 
of master and servant, has jurisdiction to reinstate a = workman whose 
services ure terminated without justification; but, it does not mean — that 
in all such cases reinstatement should be ordered. The object of Industrtal 
adjudication in to settle disputes in such a manner as to bring about or 
restore peace and harmony مز‎ the employer and employee — relatiens. 
Whether reinstatement is conducive to such a purpose or not depends oa 
the facts of cach case. THlence, it should be a matter of discretion to be 
exercised by the Industrial ‘Tribunal judicially with reference to the facts 
and circumstances of each case. This is the law as laid down by the 
Calcutta High Court in 1955 11 L.L.J. 214 (Bank of India vs, Labour 


298 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Part TA 
এলাচ مجح سے‎ ্)্শ্লশশ্গট 58897859৯৯৪. 


nant TA] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JOLY 19, 1956 209 
এল শল্য 


Appellate Tribunal of India & Ors.). If the decision is so exercised, the 
Appellute Tribunal should be reluctant to interfere with the way in which 
the «discretion is exercised by the trial Tribunal. Therefore, the point is 
whether the lower Tribunal has exercised the discretion judicially and not 
arbitrarily or perversely. In this case the Company proved to the satis- 
faction of the lower Tribunal that Shri T. ©. Mehta played a dirty trick 
in trying ما‎ prove and in relying upon a document, dated 12th May 1950 
said to have been executed by Mr. Hempson at Calcutta whereas سا‎ fact 
Mr. Hempson was at Bombay on that day. Such being the case the 
Company can no more he expected to repose confidence in Shri Mehta ond 
Shri Mehta also may not be happy in service with the Company, _ if 
reinstated. In view of this circumstance, the lower Tribunal held 0171 
compensation was the proper relief in this case and not reinstatement. We 
have no hesitation in saying that the lower Tribunal has correctly exercised 
its judicial discretion and no interference with it is called for. Shri Mehta 
served the Company only for a little over three years. The award of four 
months’ basic allowance as compensation, if at all, errs on the generoua 
side. The other claims advanced on behalf of Shri Mehta are amounts 
alleged to he due to him Gnder the terms and conditions of his service while 
he was in employment. Such claims have not been referred to the lower 
Tribunal for adjudication. Only relief arising out of the termination 01 
his service, it found 10 be unjustifiable, has been referred to the lower 
Tribunal. Proper forms of relief in such a case are reinstatement or, in 
the alternative, compensation for loss of employment. Claims to money 
alleged ہا‎ be due under terms of employment while in employment cannot 
participate in the characteristics of compensation for loss of employment 
as they should be due irrespective of the termination or retention § in 
service. Hence, none of the several claims advanced can come under the 
category of compensation for loss of employment nor can they be considered 
as incidental thereto. Hence, the Union cannot successfully urge in these 
proceedings such of the cluims of Shri Mehta os have not been awarded by 
the lower Tribunal. 


In the result, the appeal is dismissed. No costs. 


M. N. GAN, President. 
V.N. DIKSHITULU, Member. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE noon of the 4th June 1956, during the period of 
DIVISION) Shri M. L. €. D’Souza’s absence on leave. 
New Delhi, the 8th June 1956. کا‎ . ঘি. MUKHERJEE, Under fecy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


IncOME-“1LAX KS 1ARLISUMENTS 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 


No. 68.—Shri J. M. Bhatia, now working as New Delhi-2, the 19th May 1996. 


OER کر("‎ Clasa TT, af ا‎ charge of NOTIFICATION. 

ominissioner of Ineome-tax, est Bengal, is پر ہوا‎ : : r 
appointed as Income-tax Officer, Class 11, in a 1 রানা wg a Ae টিনা তি 

quasi-permanent capacity, with effect from the Ist erred by sub-section (2) of section 4 : 
July 61 section (1) of section 23 of the Prevention of Food 
৮১৮ Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954), the Central 
Government, after consultation with the Central 
New Delhi, the 30th May 1956. Committee for Food Standards, hereby makes the 


; following further amendment to the Prevention 
No. 66.—Shri G. Misra, Appellate Assistant of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955, the same 


ommssioner of Income-tax, ‘“H” Range, having been previously published as required hy 
alcutta, was granted an extension of leave on sub-section (1) of section 23 of the «aid Act, 
average pay for nine days with effect from the namely :— 

4200 Apiil 1956 to 30th April 1956, in continua- Amendment. 

hon of the leave granted to him in this Minis- 

try’s notification Nos. 19 and 25-Income-tax For sub-rule (3) of rule 1 of the said Rules, 
Kstabl‘ghments, dated the 5th March 1956 and the following sub-rule shall be substituted, 
l4th April 1956, respectively. namely :— 


, “(3) The rules other than those contained in 
He resumed charge of that Range, after the Part I1l—Appendix سور مال کرو‎ 


expiry of leave, on the Ist Muv 1956, relieving 

Shri V. Uopinathan, Appellate Assistant Commis- ا کت‎ ee ve ae " 2 ie hee 
ও ৪6৭৪ 7 \, ‘ বি raha 2 

7771, publication in the Official Gazette, the 


addity 2 : 
“ditional charge. rules contained in Part JTII---Appendix 


না 11৮1) A.12—Margarine, ছা রি 
Thi r 070 into force on the first day of June 6 
New 11708 Toth dane سا‎ and the rules contained in Part ৬] and 
No. 80.-—Shri নি. N. Sastri, Appcllate Assistant Part VII shall come into foree on the 
না of Tncome-tax, batt Range, first day of October 1956”, 
leutta, has been appointed as Appellate Assist- ee 
ant Commissioner, “C’”? Range, Calcutta, in addi- (No. P.F.A./¥F 14-35 /561".H. | 


tion to hig own duties, with effect from the alter- J. .الا‎ SAKSENA, Dy. Secy. 


pegistered No. C207 


Calriutta 


16. 


THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 
DIRECTORATE OF BOILERS, WEST BENGAL 


The following candidates are declared to have¥passed the BoilerJAttendant Examination 
under the Bengal Boiler Attendant Rules, 1940, held by the Board of Examiners on the 12th 
and 13th June 1956 and have been awarded Certificates of Competency as under :— 


On 12th June 19656. 


Second Clase Certificate of Competency. 


Name. 


Ram Dutt 00001 

Syam Sunder 7 
Laskar Shoikh ee 
Ananta Kumar Biswas 
Nur Ali ee 
Ramjatan Prosad_.. 
Dina Nath Choudhuri 
Murari Mohan Koley 
Bhuban Mohan Bhowal 
Aksed Sheikh 7 
Serajul Haque 


Mohammed Mea os 


Sunil Ch. Saha sa 
Rabati Mohan Bose .. 
Sk. Imaman ei 


Purnendu Bikash Sen 


Address. 


C/o. Titaghur Paper Mill, No. 1 Mill, P. O. Titagbur, 
24-Parganas. 

O/o. Kulti Works, Power House, P. O. Kulti, 
Burdwan. 


Village Tejnagar, P. O. Plassey, P. 8. Kahgunj, 
Nadia. 

Village Tejnagar, ۶۰ 0. Plassey, P. 8. Kahgunj, 
Nadia. 


C/o. Shree Hunuman Jute Mills, 76J.N. Mukherjee 
Road, Ghusury, Howrah. 

C/o. Burdwan Electric Supply, Fraser Avenue, 
Burdwan, 


C/o. Sree Bajrang Rice Mill, P. 0, Maynaguri, 
Jalpaiguri. 


C/o. G. B. Paul, Thermal Power Station, P. ,0ا‎ 
Chowdwar, Cuttack. 


C/o. M. & 9. M. Rly. Talchar Colly, P. O. Dara 
Colly, district Dhenkanal, Orissa. 


Village Plassey, Natunpara, P. O. Plassey, district 
Nadia. 


O/o. Jote\Janaki Khas Colliery, P. O. Toposi, dis- 
trict Burdwan. 

C/o. Parasea Colly, P. 0. Kajoregrar, district 

Burdwan. 

19/10/1B Higher Road, ۶۰ O. Tangra, Caleutta-15. 

C/o. ٣٢۰ Harley & Co., 5 Dehi Serampore Road, 
Entally, Calcutta, 

C/o, Standard Vacuum Oil Co., P. O. Budge Budge, 
24-Parganas, 


C/o. Gouripur Electric Supply Co., P. O. Garifa, 
24-Parganas, 


The following candidates are declared to havo তি the Boiler Attendant Examination 


under the Bengal Boiler Attendant Rules, 1940, hel 


by the Board of Examiners on tho 12th 


and 13th Juno 1960 and have been awarded Certificates of Competency as under ;— 


Serial 
No. 
۴ 


On 13th June 1966. 


First Claas Certificates of Competency. 


Name. 
Nageshwar Dubey .. 


Sudhir Mukherjee 


Kamruddin Ahmed 


Kater Chand ee 


Address. 

€/o. Thermal Power Station, P. O. Chowdwar, 
Cuttack. 

C/o. Murari Mohan Biswas, A. P. Debi 


Titaghur, 24-Parganas. 


C/o. Southerny Generating Station, 28 Garden 
Reach Road, Caloutta-24., 


Boiler’Chargeman, New Power House Project, 
Gorakhpur, 


Road, 


58. C. ROY, Chairman, 
Board of Examiners. 


442 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 (Parr 11 


RESULTS OF THE GOVERNMENT COMMERCIAL COURSE SPECIAL 
EXAMINATION, 1956 


Modern English 


In continuation of this office notification, dated 13th June 1956, the following 
candidates are declared to have passed the Government Commercial Course Special 
Examination, 1956, in Modern English. 


CLASS 1 
(In order of Roll Numbers.) 
Roll Name. Institution. 
No. 
1. Dinabandhu Dutta 7 +» Goenka College of Commerce 
and Business Administration, 
Calcutta. 
2. Jyotindra Nath Mustaphi.. oe Ditto. 
P. C. GHOSH, 
Dated the 3rd July 1956. Hx officio Secretary, 


Governing Body, 
Goenka College of Commerce and 
Business Administration, Calcutta. 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL 
NOTIFICATION No. Syl 60 
Calcutta, the 28th June 1956] 
Submission of books for the School Final Examination, 1959 
In continuation of this office notification No. Syl/14/56, dated the 21st March 1956, 


it is notified that the pago limits of books on subjects in which this limit was 
not indicated in the respective syllabuses will be as montioned below :— 


Subjects. Pages. 
1. Arithmetic 7 تک‎ .. About 0 
2, Algebra en 7 یی یئ‎ এ 
Upper limit up to 
3. Geometry -7 7 er 28 250 pages. 
4. Additional Mathematics 7 রা রর 
5, Business Method and Correspondence .. 2000 
6. Book-Keeping ٦ 7 جج‎ Ste. এ 
7 Shorthand and Typewriting .. “~~ woo 
8. Commercial Geography a 2 
9. Mechanics কী = +» ہر و‎ 10001001110 101086- 
tions. 
10. Pisciculture YT 7 +9 25 Ditto. 
11. Animal Husbandry including Poultry وو ,مم‎ Ditto. 
Farming. 
12. Elementary Rural Economics a ee 
13. Physics and Chemistry ne -- 200-10 Excluding illustra- 
tions. 
14. Music .. ৮ 2 .۔.‎ 140+10 ا٣ت‎ ٥ةندچ‎ illustra- 
tions. 
15. Sewing and Needlecraft et .. 2600-0 Ditto. 


By order of the Adiministrator, 
D. P. RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


Registered No. C207 


Calritta 


وےچےوچچمسجم۹لو A‏ حطس শপ মীলাদ‏ ہے ہے কপ সত স্পেস শিপ‏ تھے مم ہے سے 
০৫‏ یہد ee জল‏ سے سے ee‏ = حم ہے eee‏ موہ ٠ সপ আপ‏ 


স্পা সা س‎ eee 


THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1956 


(61211 


a Oe oe apn উই 
وم ہیلا رر نے‎ জপ مس ہس‎ শা لے‎ - সত 


PART IJ—Advertisements, Notices 


710০8000076 regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc., in the 
‘‘Calcutta Cazette’ (Part 68), 


1, Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 
®, Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type- 


written below the signature. 


3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement In the next tssue of ‘Calcutta Gazette’ shall be recelved by Publication 
8888 07108 at New Secretariat Bulldings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at Wead Office 


at Alipore up to 12 noon on Monday. 


4. All 00815 shall be pald in advance and deposited along with the Manuscripts. 


5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, 
WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE., 


(PUBLIGATION BRANCH), 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING 


The Press shall not be held responsible for delay In publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 


instructions detailed above. 


RE A ey A رہ‎ ee) 
ESS: 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORIGINAL CIVIL, JURISDICTION 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1856, 
And 


In thea matter of Bangur Land Development Corporation 
Limited 


NOIICE is hereby given that by an order, dated the 
th June 1956, His Lordship the Hon’ble Mr. Justice 
S 18. Das Gupta has directed for holding of mecting ot 
the ordinary sharcholders in the abovenamed Company for 
the purpose ot considering, and if thought fit, approving, 
with or without modification, the scheme of arrangemeut 
Proposed to he made between the abovenamed Company 
and Amalgamated Development Limited of No. 14, 1 
Subha, Road, Calcutta, and Caleutta Company Limited of 
No. 8, livons Range, Caleutta. The said meeting will be 
held on Monday, the 13th day ot August 1956, at No. 14, 
Netuy) Subhas Road, Calcutta, at 12 noon at which place 
and tine all the aforesaid shareholders are requested to 
attend. A copy of the said schemo of arrangement can 
be seen at the office of Measrs. Khaitan & Co,, attornoys 
for the said Company. at No. 18, Old Post Office Street, 
lalcuttw, and also at the registered office of the Company. 


The shareholders may attend and vote in person or by 
froxy, provided that-all proxies are d@posited at the regis- 
tered office af the Company at No. 14, Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta, not Jater than বুলি hours before the time fixed tor 
ding the said moeting. 


The proxies may he file] in the forms as provided for 
by Retion 176(6) of the Companies Act, 1956. 

A shareholder 14 entitled to appoint one or moro proxies 

altend and vote instead of himself, and that a profy 
1৭1 not be a shareholder of the Company and shall bo 
fatitled to vote for or against the resolution. 

The Court has appointed Mr. P. K. Paul, Rarrister-at- 
lav. to he Chaiiman of the said meeting. The above- 
Mentioned schemes will be subject to the subsequent 
®pproval of the Court. 


Dated the 12th day of July 1956. 
For Bangur Land 19959101109: 
Corporation Limited. 


BENIGOPAL BANGUR, 
Djrector. 


(577—1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION 


in the matter of the 00111811888 Act, 1968) 
And 
In the matter of Caloutta Company Ltd. 


NOTICE is hereby given that hy an order, dated the 
19th June 1956, His Lordship the [Hon'ble Ar. Justice 
S. RK. Das Gupta has directed for holding meeting of the 
ordinary shareholders in the abovenamed Company for the 
purpose of considering, and if thonght fit, approving, with 
or withont modification, the seheme of arrangement و رج‎ 
posed to be made betwoen the ahovenamed Company and 
Amalgamated Development Limited and Bangur Land 
Development Corporation Limited both of No. 14. Netaji 
Subhas 10151, Caleutta. The said meeting will be held on 
Thursday, the 16th day of August 1956, at No. 8, Lyons 
Range, Calcutta, at 12 noon at which place and time all 
the aforcsuid shareholders are requested to attend. A 
copy of tho said scheme of arrangement can he seen at 
the offve of Messrs. Khaitan & Co., attorneys for the said 
Company, at No. 1B. Old Post Office Street, Caleutta, and 
also at the registered office of the Company. 


The shareholders may attend and vote in porson or hy 
proxy, provided that all proxies are deposited at the 
registered office of the Company at No. 8, Lyons Range, 
Calcutta, not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for 
holding the said meeting. 

The proxies may be filed in the forms as provided for hy 
section 176(6) of the Companies Act, 1956. 

A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more 
proxies to attend and vote instead of himself, and that ٭‎ 

roxy need not be u shareholder of the Company and shall 
be entitled to vote for or against the resolution. 


The Court has appointed Mr. P. .کا‎ Paul, Barrister-at- 
Law, to be Chairman of the said mecting. The above- 
mentioned scheme will be subject to the subsequent 
approval of the Court. 


Dated the 12th day of July 1956. 


For Calcutta Company Limited, 
NARSINGDAS BANGUR, 
Director. 


(578—1) 


938 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JOLY 19, 1956 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


ORIGINAL CIVIL JORISDICTION 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1958) 
And 
In the matter of Amalgamated Development Limited 


NOTICE is hereby piven that by an order, dated the 
19th June 1956, His Lordship the Hon’ble Mr. Justice 
এ. R. Das Gupta has directed separate meetings of (1) the 
preference shareholders, und (2) the ordinary shareholders 
in the abovenamed Company for the purpose of consider- 
ing, and if thought fit, approving, with or without modi- 
fication, the scheme of arrangement proposed to be made 
between the abovenamed Company and Bangur_ land 
Development Corporation Limited of No. 14, Netaji Subhas 
Road, Calcutta, and Caleutta Company Limited of No. &, 
Lyons Range, Calcutta. The said meetings will be held 
on Tuesday, the 14th day of August 1956, at No. 14, 
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, as regerds the meeting of 
the said preference shareholders at 10 a.m. and as regarda 
the meeting of the said ordinary shareholders at 12 noon 
at which place and respective times all the #foresaid ehare 
holders are requested to attend. A copy of the said 
scheme of arrangement can be seen at the office of Messrs. 
Khaitan & Co., attorneys for the Company, at No. 11) 
Old Post Office Street, Calcutta, and also ot the registered 
office of the Company. 


The preference and ordinary shereholders may attend and 
vote in person or by proxy at such meetings respectively 
provided that all proxies are deposited at the registered 
office of the Company at No. 14, Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta, not later thun 48 hours before the tines fixed 
for holding the said meetings respectively. 


The proxies may be filed in the forms as provided for 
by section 176(6) of the Companies Act, 1956. 


A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more 
proxies to attend and vote instead of himself, and that a 
proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company and shall 
be entitled to vote for or against the resolution. 


The Court has sppointed Mr. P. K. Paul, Barrister-at 
Law, to be Chairman of the said several meetings 
respectively. ‘The abovementioned scheme will be subject 
to the subsequent approval of the Court, 


Dated the 12th day of July 1956. 


For Amalgamated Devef6pment Limited. 
BALBHADRADAS BANGUK, 
Director. 
(576—1) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA. 


ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION. 


Matter No. 183 of 1956. 


in the matter of indian Companies Aot, 
and 
in the matter of Messrs. All-india Sugar Mills Limited. 


NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for winding of 
the abovenamed Company by the High Court at Calcutta 
was on 23rd day 01 May 1956 presented to the said Court 
by Messrs. 8S. Vahiri & Co. of No, 12/2, Clive Row in the 
town of Calcutta and that the said petition is directed to 
be heard before the Court on Tuesday, the 28th day of 
August 1956, and any creditor or contributory of the said 
Company desirous of opposing an order for winding up the 
said Vompany under the above Act shall appear at the time 
of hearing by himself or of his attorney or advocate for 
that purpose and a copy of the Petition will be furnished 
to any creditor or contributory of the smd (Company 
requiring the same, by the undersigned, on payment of tho 
prescribed charges for the same. 


Dated this 9th day of July 1956. 


S.N. MUKHERJIE & CO., 
Attorneys for the petitioner 
Messrs. S. Lahiri & Co. 


Note.—Rule 58 provides that any person who intends 
to appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve 
on or send by post to the abovenamed, notice in writing 
of his intention so to do. The notice must state the name 
and address of the person or if a firm, the name and 
address of the firm, und must be served or if posted 
must he sent by post in nufficient time to reach the above- 
named not Jater than two clear days before the 28th day 
of August 1956. 

(565—1) 


| Parry{l 


সপ পা 


— 


— ie ee 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 28 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 
pusis trem Indian citizens and persons migrated trom 
Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in Indiy 
or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 
rrench possessions in India. Upper age-limits relaxablo 
by 5 yours for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled = Trihes 
candidates and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir, 
No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and 
will in no case be relaxed beyond three years. Particulars 
and application forms from Secretary, Union Publy 
Service Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. 
Requests for forms must specify name of post and should 
be accompanied by self-addressed unstamped onvelope for 
each post at least of size 9” x4” indicating thereon name 
of post for which torms are required. Closing date for 
receipt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
indian Postal Order for Rs. 7-8 an 1-14 for Scheduled 
Castes and T'ribes), 11th August 1956 (25th August 1956 
for applicants from abroad). Commission may remit 
genuinely indigent und bona fide displaced persons’ fee, 
Separate application with scparate fee required for each 
post. Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper if form 
not available and deposit fee with নিন Indian Kmbassy, 
if required, candidates must personal 


appear, for 
interview, 


1. One Research Officer In Office of the Commissioner 
for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, New Delhi, 
Ministry of Home Affairs.—Post temporary, but likely to 
continue indefinitely. Other things being equal, preference 
to Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate. Pay:i—Rs. 350—95 
—500—30-—800. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidute. Age:—Below 30 988. 
Relaxable for Government ٠۰ Qualifications— 
Essential:—(i) At least Second Class Master’s Degree in 
Anthropology of recognised University. (ii) (a) Advanced 
training in Social or Cultural Anthropology, or (ا)ۂ‎ 
Practical experience or experience of research work in the 
field of Anthropology. Qualifications relaxable at Com- 
mission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise well- 
qualified. 


2. Six Overseers in the Government of India Presses, 
Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply.—Posts temporary 
but likely to continue. Three posts reserved for Scheduled 
Castes candidates and one for Scheduled Tribes candidate 
it such suitable candidates available; otherwise all posts 
treated wi unreserved. Pay:—(a) For direct recruits: 
Rs. 245—15—440—20—500. (b) For persons in continuous 
employ since loth July 1981: Ra. 250—25—550. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candt- 
dates. Age:—lIsetween 25 and 35 years. Relaxable for 
Government servants up to the age of 45. Qualifications— 
Essential:—(i) Matriculation or equivalent. (ii) Certi- 
10৮৮ or Diploma in Printing and allied trades from recog- 
nised technica) institution in India or abroad, or Certi- 
ficate as Qualified Apprentice from Government of India 
Press. (111) About three years’ practical experieace (of 
which at least two years should be in supervisory capacity) 
in Government Press or big امت‎ Printing concern 
in various branches of Printing Trade, e.z., Mechanical 
Composition, Bindery and Warehouse, Machine Printing, 
etc. Or full four years apprenticeship in Government of 
dndia Press. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well qualified. 


3. One Teohniocal Assistant, Grade |, Wireless Pianning 
and Co-ordination Branoh, Ministry of Communioations.— 
Post temporary but likely to be retained on permanent 
basis eventually. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes 
candidate, but if مہ‎ such suitable candidate available post 
treated as unreserved. Pay:—Rez. 250৮157408১ 
20-—400--E.B. -25—500. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Age:—Between 30 
and 25 yoars. No age restrictions In the case of perma: 
nent Government servants. Qualifications—Essential:— 
(1) Degree ot recognised University in Tele-communication 
Kngineering or Equivalent; or Degree of recognise 
University in Electrical Engineoring, with Radio Com- 
murication as special subject, or equivalent; or Master's or 
equivalent Honours Degree of recognised University it 
Science with Wireless as special subject; ur Degree 0 
recognised University in Science with Physics and Mathe- 
Matics with ahout one year’s experience in the technical 
wing of large Radio organisation or training institution 
for graduate and/or post-graduate studies in ٥١ 
communications, 


4, One Senior Statistical Officer in the Civil Aviation 
Department, Ministry of Communications,—Post 0۰ 
rary. Pay:—Ra, 600-—40—1,000—1,000—1 ,050—1,050— 
1,100—1,100—1,150. Higher initial pay to ج"ھم‎ 7 
qualified and experienced cundidate. Agei—Between 28 
and 40 years. Relaxable for Government servants. 
Qualifioations—Essential :—(i) Master’s Deyree In 
Statistics, or Master’s Degree in Mathematica or Kconomics, 


pang IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 829 


سح سسسحاص > سس شس سج ے رسس سے 


witht “UStutistics” as one of the special subjects. | (ii) About 
ave years’ experience In. rospousible capacity im Govern- 
ment departinent, or private establishment of repute in 
the collection, compilation and analysis of ৭6810150108] ta. 

0-08 relaxwble at Commission × discretion 180 ٥ 
at candidates otherwise well qualified. 


5. One Assistant Information Officer (Urdu), Press 
information Bureau, Ministry of information and Broad- 
casting. 1১০৮০ temporary but likely to continue. Pre- 
(009) will be given to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes 
candidates, Candidates selocted for interview ma be 
required to sit for written test, details of which will be 
notified in due course. ۶ 1--18۰ 350—25—500—H.B.—30 
_§20. Jligher initial pay to specially qualified and 
exporienced candidates. Agei—Letween 25 and 35 years. 
Relaxable for Government servants holding Journalistic 
posts. Qualifications—Essentlali—(i) Degree of recognised 
University. (it) About three yoars’ Journalistic experience 
in newspaper or news-agency of standing and/or experience 
ot pubheity and public relations work in Publicity Organisa- 
tion of standing. (ui) Proficiency in Urdu Journalism as 
evidenced by publications in Urdu newspapers or’ high class 
periodicals, Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion in cane of candidates otherwise well qualified. 


, Two Radio Officors in the Civil Aviation Training 
Centre, Allahabad, under Ministry of Communications.— 
Post, temporary but likely to continue. First vacancy is 
eserved for Scheduled Castes candidate and the second for 
chaduled Tribes candidate; if suitable candidates from 
hese communities aro not available, posts will be treated 
4 unreserved. Pay:s—Rs, 275—2 —E. B.—30—620. 
Nigher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidates. Age:—Between 21 and 35 years. Relaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifioations—Essential:i— 
(1) Matriculation or equivalent. (ii) Must hold Current 
fight Radio Operator’s licence ixsued by the Director- 
General of Civil Aviation, or First Class Radio-Telegraph 
QOperator’s Certificate issued or velidated for Automobile 
seh by the Ministry of Communications, Government 
of India. 


7. One Assistant Education Officer (Youth Welfare 
Bulletin), Ministry of Education.—Post temporary but 
likely to continue. Pay:—Ra, 360— 350—380—380--—30— 
690. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidate. Age:—Below 45 years. Relaxable for 
Government servants. মন বসব 
Second Class Degree of recognised University. (ii 
Adequate experience jin writing. (ii) About three years’ 
experience of Physical education, games and sports, and 
Youth Welfare activities. Qualifications relaxable at Com- 
cenit discretion in case of candidates otherwise well 
qualified. 


8. One Interpreter-oum-Transiator (Tibetan) ا٦‎ the 
Ministry of External Affairs.—Post temporary but likely 
to continue indefinitely. Preference to Scheduled Castes / 
Scheduled Tribes candidates. Pay:—Rs. 250—10—300—15 
- -450—25 / 2--500. Free furnished accommodation, toreign 
allowances and medical concessions, etc., will be admissible 
when the candidate serves abroad. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. Age:— 
Between 25 and 35 years. Relaxable for Government 
servants. Qualifications—Essential:—(i) Matriculation or 
equivalent. (i1) Knowledge of Hindi and Tibetan. 


One Assistant Examiner of Patents in the Office of‏ .؟ 
the Controller of Patents and Designs, Caloutta, Ministry‏ 
of Commerce and iIndustry.—Post permanent. Post‏ 
reserved tor Scheduled Tribes candidate, failing that for‏ 
Scheduled Castes candidate. If, however, no such suitable‏ 
candidate available, post will be treated as unreserved.‏ 
Pay:—Ix. —— 200—-10-300—K,  B.—156—4560—25 /2—500.‏ 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced‏ 
candidate. Agei—Hetween 22 and 28 years. elaxable‏ 
for Government servants. ualifications— Eseential:—‏ 


Degree or Diploma in Civil Engineermg of recognised 
Niversity. 


INDIAN NAVY EXAMINATION 


THE Union Public Service Commission will hold an 
emination at Allahabad, Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, 
mmu, Ludhiana, Madras and Shillong some time in 
pfcember 1956 for selection of Special Entry Cadets for the 
ndian Navy, Age-ilmits:—Candidates must have been 
orn not earher than 2nd January 1938 and not later than 
nt Jenuary 1940. These age-limits can in no case be 
relaxed. Intermediate or equivalent, Applications from 
andidates who have appeared or intend to appear at 
htermediate or equivalent examination acceptable provi- 
ود‎ Application forms and full particulars obtainable 
یت‎ Secretary, Union Public Service Commission, Dholpur 
ouse, New Delhi, by remitting Re. 1 by Money Order or 
on cash payment at the counter. Candidates must clearly 
wate on Money Order coupons “Indian Navy Examination, 
Soember 1956’ and also give thelr name and full postal 
Address in blook fetters. Postel Orders or cheques or 
(ধা notes will not be accepted in 11901 of Money 
rders. Application forms and connected ag are also 
Obtainable free trom the nearest Naval Office. Only 
Unmarried male candidates oan apply for admission to this 
examination. Completed sapplivationa must reach Union 
Public Service Commission by 8th September 1956 (22nd 
btember 1956 for candidates abroad), 


সপ = we টি শীল eee‏ سیر সপ ee‏ ہے পপ‏ ہسےم حب سہ 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 28 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent pust of 
Assistant Professor ot Philosophy wm the West Bengal 


Educational Service (Men’s ranch). Women are 
considered unsuitable. 
(1) Qualiftioations.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(i1) A first class Master’s degree; 
Or, 


۸ second class Master’s degree with first class 
Honours in the Bachelor’s degree; 


Or, 


A Doctorate degree with first class Honours’ or 
second clays Master's degree of an Indian 
University, 1 Philosophy; 


Or, 
Equivalent foreign qualifications. 


(iii) Two yoars’ teaching experience in a college in 
Philosophy, relaxable in the case of candidates 
possessing exceptionally high academic qualifica- 
tions, or having done significant research work. 


Desirable 


(1) ای‎ জি: for carrying on research work in the case 
of candidates who do not possess a Doctorate 
degree. 


(it) Good power of expression in Bengali—written and 
spoken, 


Age not more than 35 years on Ist August 1956 relax- 
able in case of candidates possessing exceptionally high 
qualifications. Age-limit not applicable to persons serving 
in the Education Department, Government of West 
Bengal. ‘The upper age-limit is relaxable by five years for 
Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced 
persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided NHengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Beir’ and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 waa 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper aye-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 260—20—650—25—750 
‘r month plus usual allowances. The question of الس‎ 
igher initial pwy may be considered in excoptional cases. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed {orm which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (round 
floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally. or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postaye affixed to it. Cywndidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘‘Caleutta Gazette” of the Ist September 
1955, provided the hlanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 9%h August 1956. 


(4) Partioulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one veer prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testitying to thoir private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a 196 of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or tho Reserve Bank of India 
under tho head “XXX VI—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal ordera, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and i بر‎ payable to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, Weat Bengal’. No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


330 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 6 | Pang 1 


mere হল ee SCRE Oe ھے‎ SS Se سے‎ a PCPS TT ES CE سے‎ 
a 


Candidates in’ Government service should make = sure 
before 0119১11111১ fee that their apphecations will be 
forwarded by their suyenor officers. Im no case will the 
fey paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide cisplaved persons trom Pakistan. 


Note, (01) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is ھ‎ bana fide igtaced person from Pakistan, 
o.g., refugee registration card or a certificate from a 
yeectied officur or u Member of Parliument or State 
Legishiture, m orginal. 


(ii) ۸ meanber of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Schedtled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular custe or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(111) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (1) above, o certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee.’’ 


(6) Address.--Cundidates should give their presont 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support 01 their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontancons recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 7 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or scatutory Body (¢.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appomting suthority of their posts or service. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Puhlic Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 11th July 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 20 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a post of Executive 
Ingineer, Northern Salt Lake Area Reclamation Project 
Division under the Construction Board, West Bengal. The 
appointment will be made on contract for two years. 


(1) Qualifications :— 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part IT of the 
{‘onstitution of India. 


(ii) Fither (a) A degree in Architecture, 
(b) Diploma 11) Town Planning; 

_ oO 
(ii) (a) .\ degree in Civil Engineering, 
(b) Diplomes in Town Planning, 


(c) Two years’ éxperience in Design work in Town 
Planning Schemes. 


Age not more than 50 years on 1st August 1956. The 
upper age-limit is relaxable by five years for Scheduled 
Castes /{ Tribes, 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 
under the Governtaent of Mast Bengal after partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detamed, imprisonel, interned or externed on account of 
his activifies in eannection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not bomg convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession in respoct 
of the upper age-lmit. The concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externinent suffered up to a maximum of 
four years. 


(2) Pay:—The scale of pay is Rs, 500—30—680—40— 
1,200 plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application,— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available {rum the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover 
the postage’ affixed to it, Candidates who are unahle to 


ap A aa 
Oe ee | ০০০ OD کت‎ উস শা পা rc 


obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply ہہ‎ any 
similar typed (not handwritten) lorm showing oxactly the 
wording and spacing ot tho پر ین‎ form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the Ist September 1955, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting, 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the Mth Auguat 1056. 


(4) ৮৪101041915 and oertificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience texether with certificates wrilten not 
more than one year priory to the date of their applications, 
from responsibie persons, testitying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee. Candidates inust oncloxe with their applica. 
tions a jee of Rs. 5 (ior cach catagory of posts) in the 
form of a 16007117৮50 chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Reserve Lank of India under the head “2۶۶33۲1 
Miscellaneous—Recoipts of the Public Service Commission 
West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu o 
tieasury clfstans are not accepted. Postal orders, however 
may be awepted trom candidates. They should be cross 
und imade payable to ‘'The Secretary, Public Service 
Connuasion, West Bengal’. No application will hg 
pode ged unless accompanied with the requisite applica- 
tion Ter, 


Candidates in| Governmont service should make sure 
holure depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. ne no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—'‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence that, 
hoe is » bona fide dixplaced person from Pakistan, e g. 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


Gii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a cortificate in original from m gazetted officer 
or # Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that be is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.”’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing. ~Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons ot 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded, 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in—permanenat 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporgtion) m 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


শি. C. CHOWDHURE, Sceretary. 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 16th July 1956, 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 
Advertisement No. 27(a) ’ 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a post of Lecturer in 
Metallurgy at the Bengal Kngmeering College in the West 
Bengal General Service. Women are unsuitable for the 
post. The post is tomporary at present but likely to be 
made permanent. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part IT of the 
Constitution of India. 
(11) A good degrea in Metallurgy. 
(111) Threa years’ industrial and/or research experiences: 


Desirable 


(i) Post-graduate degree and research training. 
(11) Teaching experience. 

(11) Ability and willingness to carry out rescarch. 
(iv) Good power of expression in Bengali. 


part 111] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 33] 


হাটি 


Age should ordinarily be below 30 but not less than 
جو‎ years on che lst August 1956, relaxable in the case of 
a candidate possessing exceptionally high qualifications 
and for a person serving in the KEdneation Department, 
West Bengel 


Upper age-limit relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled 
(‘astes / Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced persons 
from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for oa non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
onginally opted to serve in Kast Bengal after partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has como over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
hus activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence জে ای‎ 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to » concession in respect 
of upper age-limit. Tho concession granted will be equal 
to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, intern- 
nent or oxternment suffered up to a maximum of four 
years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 800—25—600 per 
month plus the usual dearness allowance. The selected 
candidate will be entitled to quarters within the college 
compound subject to payment of 10 per cent, of 
emoluments. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Appheations are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
দশ West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
oor), Alipore, Calceutta-27, personally or on asonding a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
uiable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “‘Caleutta Gazette” of the 18٦ September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 1185 August 1956. 


(4) Partioulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(6) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted সপন জি 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of 17018 
under the heal “XXX VI—Miscellancous—Receipts of the 
Publie Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders 
cheques, ete., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accented, 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
Thev should he crossed and made payable to “The 
বা 8 টা Commission, West Bengal’’. No 
‘ation will be considered u ] | 
সি d unless accompanied with the 


Candidates in Government service should m 

ake وہ‎ 
hefare denositing fee that their anplications will The 
warded bv their superior officers. In no case will the 
ee 10810 with the application be refunded. 


The Commission mav remit fee in cas 1 
0 9 of genuinel 
Indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. & 


Note.—(i) A displaced person claimi j 

ATO) ng age concession 

ee pain with his application satisfactory evidence 

: at he is a bona fide disrlaced person from Pakistan 

লা paces تن لد‎ eure or a certificate from a 
cer or 1 i 

না নী ember of Parliament or State 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Sche 

ode dul 

ie claiming age concession must furnish with Ke 

7 کہ‎ a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 

না ner of Parliament or State Legislature helonging 

কা cheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifving the 
cular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


ee 4 displaced person seeking remission of the 

ah sh aia fee must furnish ৮1 the evidence required 
ee ote (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
গম Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 

: lament or State Leyislature to show that he is not in 
powition {o pay the prescribed fee.” 


1 Address,.—Candidates : shanvld 51৮6 their present 
change, کے‎ তা cominunicate at once any subsequent 


role Canvassing. -Any attempt on the part of candidates 

ie ist support of their applications through کرت‎ of 
a tence or officials of Government will disqualify them 

her appointment. 7468 recommendation fram 

th Sons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
*m will be disregarded 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary einployment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their poste or service, 


৪. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Publie Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 13th July 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 27(b) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Special Officer (Co-operatives) in the Refugees Relief and 


Rehabilitation Directorate. 


(1) Qualifoations.— 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(71) A degree, preferably in Commerce or Economics of 
a recognised University. 


(81) Ability to run cottage and smali-scale industries on 
co-operative basis. 


(iv) Knowledge of Bengali—written and spoken. 


Age not below 30 years on Ist August 1956, relaxable 
for candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


(2) Pay.—The post carres a fixed pay of Rs. 350 per 
month plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of 88005110381011, 
Applications are to be made on the srescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House ( round 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending 4 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
wublished in the ‘Calcutta Gazette’? of the 1st September 
Tons, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must he addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 11th August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—C‘andidates 
should {urmsh evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
nore than one yeer prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
charactér. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVJ—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, ٥٥٥۴ہ‎ in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may he accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and ma یپ‎ to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their a plications will ‘be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of চি 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must turmsh with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Schqduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature helonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to whieh he claims to belong. 


(iii) ۸ذ‎ diaplaced person seeking remission of the 
anplication foo muat furnish hesides the evidence required 
rnder Note (1) ahove. a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parhament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee,’ 


892 THE CAJAUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 [Parr 11 


এ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing..—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support ot their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded, 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they aro submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


এ. C. CHOWDHTRI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengul. 


Alipore, the 13th July 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 27(0) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for four temporary gazetted 
posts of Rehabilitation Officer under the lefugee Relief 
and Rehabilitation Department. 


(1) Qualifications.— 


(1) Citizenship of India as defined in Part 11 of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) A degree of a recognised Universjty. —~ 


(iii) Experience of Social work, preferably of handling 
displaced persons. 


(iv) Sound health, good physique, active habits and free 
from organic defects or bodily infirmity. 


(v) Age between 25 and 36 years on Ist August 1956, 
relaxable for a person in Government service. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled 
Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced persons 
from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal“8fter partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that 
Government and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who hefore the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle tor 
independence, not being convicted for an offence indicat- 
ing moral turpitude, shall he entitfed to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The posts. Garry a fixed pay of Rs. 205 per 
month plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instruotions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
wilh pe available from the office of the Public Service 
Commigasion, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore. Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘Calcutta Gazette” of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled np in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 11th August 6. 


(4) Particulars and oertifioates required.—Candidaten 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one veer prior to the date of their applications, 
from responarble persons, testifying to their private 
character, 


_ (5) Fee.—Candidatea must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Hank of India 
under the head “XXX VI--—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal”. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in Hien of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 


They should be crossed and made payable to “The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. No 
appheation will be considercd unless accompanied with the 
reqiusite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make gure 
before depositing tee that their applications will 06 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
jee paid with the application be ۱6٤۰ 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of wenuinely 
indigent and ‘bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan, 

Note.—‘'(1) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his 080٦ satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan 
9... refugee registration card or a_ certificate from & 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, m original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application. a cortificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribo to which he claims to belong. 


(111) ۸ displaced porson seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
nuder Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officor or a Membor of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position ta pay the prescribed foe.’’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—.\ny wi on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


5. C. CHOWDHURI, Seoretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 13th July 1956. 


TAKI GOVERNMENT INTERMEDIATE COLLEGE, 
P.O. TAK, DISTRICT 24-PARGANAS 


IN a healthy place on the river Ichchamati. Pleasant 
rural atmosphere. Opportunity for undisturbed study 11 
the শা সদ rural background. Teaches I.4. and ۶۴۰ 
Subjects: English, Bengali (Vernacular), History ؟‎ 
Mathematics, Logic, Civics, Sanskrit, Chemistry, Physics. 
Well equinped Laboratories with Gas Plant. A very 0٥ 
library. Staff of brilliant scholars. Individual attention 
to each student. Very satisfactory University results 
(I.A. 79 per cent. and I.Sc. 88 per cent.). Stipends and 
concessions to deserving students. Refugee stipends also 
available. Hostel: Two-storied spacions buildings with £ 
hig compound. Concession of Rs. 10 (Hostel stipend Re. 
and seat rent Ra. 5) to each boarder. Messing chargé 
moderate. Admission going on. Apply with one anna 
stump for Prospectus and form to B. Ghosh, Principal. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 


RE: MISC. CASE NOQ. 75/47 (ACT ۰ 


In the matter of minors Adel Wahob and 2 others. 


To Sin. Ramisa Khatoon, widow of late Abdul Rahman 
eM of 13, Rosemary Lane, Golabari, distri 
owrah, 


YOU are hereby directed to show cause by 23rd July 
1056 ageinst sour removal for non-submission of accounts 
and inventory, 


U. GUPTA, 
District Judge: 


Part IL] 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 6 OF 1956 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Kshetra Mohan 
[lazra, son ot late Mahendra Nath Hazra, of Mankundu, 
police-station [hadreswar, district Hooghly, has apes to 
this Court on the 22nd June 1966 for beimg adjudged an 
مر‎ ۷۵۵۳۴۰ The 20th day of August 1956 has been fixed 
for hearing thereof. 


N, .ا‎ SHOME, District Judge. 


Dated Chinsurah, the 6th July 1956. 
(559—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT VUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 7 OF 1956 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Annada Prosad Para- 
manick, son of late Harish Chandra Paramanick, of 
95841701101) police-station Chinsurah, district Hooghly has 
applied to this Court on the 3rd day of July 1956 for 
heing adjudged an insolvent. The 20th day of August 

\ 1956 has been fixed for hearing thereof. 
N, L. SHOME, District Judge. 
Dated Chinsurah, the Gth July 1956. 


(560—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 7 OF 1956 
Chinmoy De of 13/19 Haron Lane, Calcutta-292—debtor. 


To Sadhan Kumar Bhattacherjee of 50R Gorcha Road, 
Ballygunge, Calcutta, and another—creditors. 


ON the 2nd day of July 1956 it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
6th day of August 1956 and that the said applicant do 
attend to he examined by this Court on that date. 


M. M. BHATTACHARYA, 


District Judge. 
Alipore, the 7th July 1956. 


(573—1) 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provinolal Insolvency 801) V of 1020) 


IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL DISTRICT 
JUDGE AT MIDNAPORE 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 6 OF 1955. 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated the 2nd June 1955 
4vainst Shri Jagannath Hens, son of late Bepin Behari 

ens, a resident of Haldinala, pargana Bagri, post office 
and police-station Garhbeta, district Midnapore, and on the 
application of the dehtor himself and on reading the 
application and herring the pleaders for the debtor and 
creditor No. 1, it is ordered that the debtor be. and the 
9810 debtor ig hereby adjudged insolvent. 


Tt is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within one year from this date. 


Dated this 28th day of June 1956. 


8. K. ROY, 
Addl. District Judge. 
Dated Midnapore, the 3rd July 1956. 


(571—1) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 3139 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


YNSOLVENCY CASE NO. 30 OF 1956 


Somari Bustara of Sweeper Line of Hukum Chand Jute 
Mills, police-station Naihati, 24-Parganas, debtor. 


To Sarwan Singh of Halisahar Kona, police-station Bijpur, 
4-Paryanas, and three others, 


ON the 29th day of June 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
8rd day of August 1956, and that the said applicant do 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


S. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


Alipore, the 10th July 1956 
(553—1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 32 OF 1956 


Karuna Kumar Sarkar of Budge Budge, Kayala Sarak, 
police-atation Budge Budge, 24-Parganas, debtor. 


To Gourmohan Saha of Charial Bazar, police-station 
Budge Budge, 24-Parganas, and three others, creditors. 


ON the 6th day of July 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant he heard on the 
3rd day of August 1956, and that the said applicant do 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


S. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


Alipore, the 10th July 1956. 
(554—1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 33 OF 1956 


Harendra Nath Ray of Bara Roypur, 1 Budge 
এ Budge, 24-Parganas, debtor. 


To Ram Lal Das of Jikurbera, police-station Bishnupur, 
district 24-Pargenas, and four others, creditors. 


ON the 29th day of June 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
srd day of August 1956, and that the said applicant do 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date, 


S. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 
Alipore, the 10th July 1956. 
es) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 38 OF 1956 


Prafulla Kumar Chatterjee of 29/0 Nakuleswar Bhatta- 
charjee Lane, police-station Bhowanipur, Calcutta, 
debtor. 


To Phanibhusan Mukerjee of Basina, police-station Rajar- 
hat-Bishnupur, 24-Parganas, and another, creditor. 


ON the 10th day of July 1966, it was ordered that the 
mattor of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
10th day of August 1956, and that the said applicant do 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


S.\P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


Alipore, the 10th July 1956. 
(656—1) 


“৮34 THE CAIAUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


[Parr Ty 


৯.২... Ste 


IN THE COURT OF THE ADDITIONAL SUB-JUDGE, 
BHAGALPUR 


MONKY EXECUTION CASE NO. 18 OF 1955 


State Bank of India, decree-holder, 
versus 
Duttlal Mahansaria and others, judgment-debtors. 


To Duttlal Mahansaria, son of Mannalal Mahansaria, 
Ramkumar Mahansaria, son of Dnttlal Mahansana, 
রি Oil Mills, Nalheti, district Birbhum, West 
engal. 


WHEREAS the abovenamed decree-holdera have applied 
for the oxecution of decree for recovery of Rs. 20,526-1-6, 
besides interest and cost. 


Notice is hereby given under order 21, rule 22, 0. P. 
Code, requiring you to show cause on 30th July 1956 as 
to why the execution case should not proceed. In default 
of your appearance, ex parte order will be passed. 


Dated the 16th June 1956. 


H. P. SINHA, 
1st Addl, Sub-Judge. 
(6741) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 3 OF 1956 


Dargeahi Mia, son of late Lakhan Mia, residing at Petana, 
police-station Kulti, Chowki Asansol, district Burdwan, 
petitioner. 


IT in hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has 
registered that application and fixed 4th August 1956 for 
the hearing thereof. 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the llth July 1956 
(558—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 4 OF 1966 


Mahammad Fazil, son of Forman Alahi, residing at 
Puranahat, police-station Hirapur, district Burdwan, 
petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has 
registered that application and fixed 4th August 1956 for 
the hearing thereof. 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the lith-July 1956 
\(657—1) 


PUBLIC NOTICE 


DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL SAVINGS, 
WEST BENGAL 


IT is notified for general information that appointments 
of the following persons as Authorised Agents under the 
General Agency System by the Chief Presidency Magistrate, 
Calcutta, for the sale of National Savings Certificates and 
National Plan Certificates have been cancelled and they are 
no longer vested with authority in this behalf:— 


National Savings Certificates 


(1) Shri Dinesh Chandra Sen, C.A. No. WBP 000897, 
19/1 Dover Road, P.O. Ballygunge, Calcutta-19. 


(2) Shri Mrnotosh শা, C.A. No. WEP 000847, 
1729/6 Lower Circular Road, Caleutta-14. 


National Pian Certificates 


Shri Dinesh Chandra Sen, C.A. No. 8 12813, 19/1 Dover 
Road, Ballygunge, Calcutta-19. 
M. N. SAMADAR, 
Regional National Savings Officer, 


West Bengal. 
Dated the 6th July 1956. 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and applica. 
tions for payment of their value have been received from the 
person/party whose names are shown against the numbers 
Any other person/party who consider(s) himself | ৮0060. 
velves 2 having o right to them is/are warned to oom. 
municate at once with the undersigned:— 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
: the applicant, 


Re, 


W.D. 315/55-56 A/88-440254 100 Shri Raj Kumar Jain 


H/11-939321 Kacha Bagh, Chandn; 
(Hindi). Chowk, Delhi. 
W.D. 816/556-506 H/7-910093 100 Shri Akula’ Chinna 
Non-Hindi). Venkatramiah Chetty, 
Shroff Merchant 
Cuddapah 


W.D. 4817/55-56 H/11-266596 100 Shri 138] Kumar Jain, 
(Hindi), Kacha Bagh, Chandni 
Chowk, Delhi. 


S. K. SARKAR, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 
22nd June 1956. 


I, SUKUL PROSAD, LUL.B., intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 
(502—4) 


JITENDRA NATH SANYAL, M.A., LL.B., Attorney. 
at-Law, intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, 


Calcutta. 
(613—4) 


I, ANANTA MOHAN GUPTA, B.L., Pleader, intend to 
be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(514—4) 


I, SIPRA GAYAN, LL.B.. intend to be enrolled as an 
Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 
(515—4) 


DINANATH SHARMA, M.A., T...B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the Calentta High Court. 


(521-4) 


SUNIL KUMAR MITRA, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 


(633—4) 


I, SWADESRANJAN SARKAR, B.L., Pleader, intend 
to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(545—4) 


ATUL KUMAR BORAL, Solicitor, intends to he 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 


(546—4) 


NOTICE is hereby given that SUDHIR KUMAR DEY 
MULLICK, Attorney-at-Law,- intends to be admitted as 22 
Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta, (561-4) 


KESHAB CHANDRA GHOSE, M.A.. LL.B., intends to 


be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. . 
(569—4) 


SHRI PRADYOT KUMAR BASU, B.1., intends to 0 
enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 
(570--4) 


Part IT} 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 335 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


Notifieation No. 248 


IT is hereby notified under the provisions of sub- 
section (1) of section 107 of the Calcutta Port Act, 1890 
(Bengal Act IIL of 1890), that the following further alter- 
ations In the Schedule of Charges contained in notification 
No. 190, dated the 2nd February 1946, to take effect from 
the lst August 1956, have beon approved by the Central 
Government, namely :— 


In the said Schedule—In the following Sections— 


(a) gees 6—Landing and shipping charges on heavy 
ifts. 


(b) Section 13—Petroleum and Palm 01]. 
Clause (3). 
(c) Section 31. 
Clause (1A)—Crane and Derrick charges. 
d) Appendix 1 
Schedule A ৮ toll. 
Clause (3) 


for the words ‘‘a Chamber holiday’? and ‘Chamber 
holidays” substitute the words “any day declared 
by the Commissioners as a public holiday’’. 


By order of the Commissioners, 
۶ C, MITTER, 
Secrotary. 
The 1401) July 1956. 


(579—1) 


“FORM NO. Vil 


PUBLIC NOTICE OF DISSOLUTION 


NOTICE is hereby given that the partnership heretofore 
subsisting between The Bombay Company (Private) Ltd. 
Shaw Wallace & Co., Ltd., Plummer Bros. & Co., Bengal 
Timber Trading Co., Ltd., Gillanders Arbuthnot & Cu., 
Ltd., Gladstone Lyall Co., Ltd., and Bird & Co. Private 
Ltd., under Supplemental وو‎ Deed, dated 15th 
November 1949, and carrying on business at Calcutta 
under the style of The Bengal Timber Association and 
و‎ at Calcutta in the Register of Firms on 4 
February 1947 being No. 15046 of 1947, has been dissolved 
as from the 30th day of June 1956. 


Dated the 2nd July 1956. 


Per Pro: The Bombay Company (Private) Ltd. 
G. V. NATH, 
Branch Manager. 
Secretarios: The Bengal Timber Association.” 


(572—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1086, 


AND 


IN THE MATTER OF ৪. B. INDUSTRIES LIMITED 
CIN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 


; PLEASE take notice that the Final General Meeting of 
he Company will be held at the Liquidator’s: Office on 
onday, August 20, 1956, at 5-15 p.m., to lay before the 
Meeting an account of the winding up showing how the 
same has been conducted and property of the Company 
sposed of and to consider and pass a Special Resolution 
Fr; out disposal of the Company’s books and papors and 
98৪ of the Liquidator on dissolution of the Company. 


B. C. CHATTERJEE, 
Liquidator, 


12/B Netaji Subhas Road, Ground Floor, Caleutta-1, the 
18th July 1956, 


(575—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1913-36, 


AND 


IN THE MATTER OF BRITISH INDIA INVESTMENTS 
PRIVATE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION). 


NOTICE is hereby given pursuant to section 2081 of 
the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913, that a General 
Meeting of the members of the abovenamed Company will 
be held on Friday, the 7th September 1956, at 10-30 a.m. 
wt 134 Clive Buildings, Calcutta, when the Liquidators will 
lay before the meeting an account of their acts and deal- 
ings and of the conduct of the winding up during the year 
from 30th June 1955 to 20th June 1956 and a statement in 
the prescribed form containing the prescribed particuiars 
with respect to the position of the liquidation. 


F. M. HILL, 
for Self and Co-Liquidators. 


Calcutta, the 3rd July 1956. 
(562—~1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1013-36, 


AND 


IN THE MATTER OF INDIAN SECURITIES PRIVATE 
LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION). 


NOTICE is hereby given pursuant to section 208D of 
the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913, that a General 
Meeting of the members of the abovenamed Company will 
be held on Friday, the 7th September 1956, at 10 a.m. 
at B4 Clive Buildings, Calcutta, when the Liquidators will 
lay before the meeting an account of their acts and deal- 
ings and of the conduct of the winding up during the year 
from 30th June 1955 to 29th June 1956 and a statement 
in the prescribed form containing the prescribed particulars 
with respect to the position of the liquidation. 


ঢা. M. HILL, 
for Self and Co-Liquidators. 


Calcutta, the 3rd July 1956. 
(563—1) 


SUNDAR FABRICS LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION) 


To the Shareholders. 


NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting of the share- 
holders of the Company will be held on 27th day of August 
1956, at 4 p.m. at 20 Tarachand Dutt Street, Calcutta, 
for the purpose of laying the Accounts before the share- 
holders and giving explanations thereof. 


for SUNDAR FABRICS LTD. 
(in liquidation). 
M. P, SHARMA, 
Liquidator. 


94/4 Lower Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 
(564—1) 


LOST 


THE Government Promissory Note No. CA041225 of the 
3 per cent. loan of 1963-65 for Rs. 500 originally standing 
in the name of N. .تا‎ Kanga, the proprictor by whom it 
was never endorsed to ony other person, having been lost 
notice is hereby given that payment of the above note and 
the interest thereupon have been stopped at the Pubhe 
Debt Office, Reserve Bank of India, Calcutta, and that 
application is about to be made for the issue of duplicate 
in favour of the proprietor. The public are cautioned 
against purchasing or otherwise dealing with the ahove- 
mentioned security. 


Signature of the advertiser—N. E. Kanga. 


Residence—29 Ezra Street, Calcutta-l. 
(568—3) 


336 THE CAIXUTTA GAZKTTE, JULY 19, 1956 


[Parr TI 


LOST RECEIPT 


A RECEIPT numbered I1/01952, dated 2nd February 
1956, and granted by the Reserve Bank of India, Pubueo 
Debt Office, Calcutta, on submission of the undermentioned 
Government Promissory Note. Notice of loss has been 

iven to the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt Office, 

alcutta, and the undersigned 18 about to apply for 
surrender of the security:— 


0. P. Note No, Loan. Amount, 


Rs. 
8 per cent., 500 
1570-76. 
Name of the holder—Shambhu Das Set. 
Residence—3 Abhoy Ghosh Lane, Calcutta-4. 


Holder’s name. 


CA 035022 Shambhu Das Set. 


(566—1) 


LOST RECEIPT. 


A RECEIPT numbered 11/03853, dated 11th April 1956, 
and granted by the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt 
Office, Calcutta, on submission of the undermentioned 
Treasury Savings Deposit Certificate. Notice of loss has 
bean given to the Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt 
Office, Calcutta, and the undersigned is about to apply for 
surrender of the security: — 


T. 8. D. C. No. Loan. Amount, Holder's name. 
Re. 
CA 005919 4 cent., 10,000 Sabitri Ghosh. 
e ® D. 0. 


م۰ 


Name of the holder—Sabitri Ghosh. 


Residence—63/2A Mirzapur Street, Calcutta-9. 
(567—1) 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 

IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Belvedere have 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1053. The 
revised working hours are specified below:— 

Reading Rooms.- 
Week days (including Saturdaya)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 
Sundays and holidays—1l0 a.m. to 6 p.m. 

Lending Section— 
Week days (inoluding Saturdays)}—l0 a.m. to 5 p.m 
Sundays and holidaye—l0 a.m. to 1-90 p.m. 


The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, how. 
ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
year:— 


(1) Republic Day, (ii) Independence Day and (iii) 
Mahatma andhi'’s Bi Day. 


Pereons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lendiag Library open 9) 
any one residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security in cash is essential 


B. ৪. KESAVAN, 
Librarian 


Belvedere, Calcutta-27, the 6th March 1964. 


Registered No. C207 


Calriutta 


THURSDAY, JOLY 19, 1946 


PART V—Acts of the Parliament of India assented tu by the President 
and Ordinances promulgated by the President 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA 


Ministry of Law 


The following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 2nd June 1956 and is hereby published 
for general information :— 


ACT NO. XXVI OF 1956. 
THE INDIAN ا مو‎ (AMENDMENT) ACT, 


[end June, 1956. | 


An Act further to amend the Indian Income-tar .\ct, 1922. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of 
the Republic of India as follows: — 


1. This Act may be called the Indian Ineome-tay ghort title, 
(Amendment) Act, 1956. 


2. In sub-section (7A) of section 5 of the Indian Amend. 
Income-tax Act, 1922, the following E.rplanation shall be, 0 of 
and shull be, deemed always to have been, inserted at the Schon 5 


Act IT of 
the end, namely :— 1922, 


“Earplanation.—In this sub-section, ‘case’ in relation 
to any person whose name is specified in the order 
of transfer means all proceedings under this Act 
in respect of any year which may be pending on 
the date of the transfer, and includes all proceed- 
ings under this Act which may be commenced 
after the date of the transfer in respect of any 
year.’’. 


K. Y. BHANDARKAR, Seev 


peistered No. C207 


THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1956 


PART VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of India; Reports of Select 
Committees presented to Parliament; and Bills published before 
introduction in Parliament. 


کا 


LOK SABHA 


The following Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha 
on 4th May 1956:— 


Brut No. 16 or 1956 
A Bill further to amend the Factories Act, 1948 


Br it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of 
the Republic of India as follows:— 


1. (1) This Act may be called the Factories (Amend- 
ment) Act, 19 


(2) It shall come into force at once. 


2. In section 5] of the Factories Act, 1948 (herein- 
ufter referred to as the principal Act), for the words 
“forty-vight hours” the words “forty-four hours’’ shall be 
substituted. 


3. In section 54 of the 10110011081 Act, for the words 
“nine hours” the words “eight hours” shall be substituted. 


i A In sub-section (1) of section 59 of the principal 
ct,— 


(1) for the words “nine hours’’ the words “eight hours’’ 
shall be substituted; and 


(at) for the words ‘‘forty-eight hours’ the words “‘forty- 
four hours” shall be substituted. 


Short title 
and 
commoence- 
ment, 


Amend - 
mont of 
ecction 51. 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 54, 


Amend.- 
ment of 
section 59, 


122 


THE, CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND 7٤8 


In most of the advanced countries, the hours of work 
for industrial workers have been reduced from 48 hours to 
44 Hours and even less, The workers in thoy countries are 
now demanding a 40-hour week. This demand arises 
primarily becatse of the intensification of work that has 
recently. Jeen introduced in almost all industries causing 
excessive exertion. 


This Amendment to the Factories Act, 1948, seeks to 
reduce the hours of work from 48 hours to 44 hours a week 
in all factories. 


New Dest: 
The 16th February, 1966. 


T. 0. VITAL ر0‎ 


M. N. KAUL, 


Secy. 


[Par Vy 


Registered No. C207 No. 29 of 1956 
۴ THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1056 .. 
CONTENTS: 
4 ve 7 سد‎ 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West 
Bengal for the week ending the ط568‎ 
July 1956 7 - eo 479—480 
Calcutta Improvement Trust—Notioes 7۰ 481 
Corporation of Calcutta—Corrigendum 5 481 
= an 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., tor the week ending the Sth July 1956. 


Summary.— During tho week under report there was rainfall in thirty-six subdivisions. The weather conditions were unfa- 
vourable in twelve subdivisions. Transplantation of Aman continuing in some subdiviaens. The condition of the standing crop was 
on the whole fair. ding 

The fodder reported to be insufficient in eighteen subdivisions and cattle-disease was reported from three subdivisions. 


The wages of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight during the week under report. 
Total The minfmam 


ruinfall oo of coarse Obaracter of Stage and progressof Socareity of Prospecta of Fodder Cattle. 
فا نس ا اس السا تل بد ہے‎ wed, ifanj. ات تو رہ رت نے‎ Rod 
subdivisions. the rupec. effect on the tions. crops 
week, 9=———-——— standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous og নর ,, cuttura). 
week: week. ৬৪ 
1 2 8৪) 8৮৮) 4° 6 $ و‎ 8 8 1 19 

24-Parganas. 

Badar noe 1 -66 2 2 Favourablo .. ere oe Fair .» Insufficient No report »» Re. 1-4, 

Diamond Harbour... 2 1 16/16 save sooo 1 ee os 7 . e204 

Barrackpur ০০ «es 2 1/16 2 1/16 Unfavourable Cultivation al- Scarce «+ Fair »» Insufficient No report .. Ba, 8. 
most suspen- 
ded. 

sy ‘ able .. Aman __ trans- Do. »» Not 7 a 2‏ تا 

arasot 105 2 2 Favour পরী good Ditto Ditto .. Ra, 1-12, high, 
commonced. 

Basirhat .ہ.‎ 1:18 115/16 115/16 Ditto | .. Seed bed pre- Nil 7 7 Ditto .. Ditto .. Bs 18, 

ation con- 
ued, 
Bongson =. 1:06 118/168 Dito .. Ditto .. Do .. Fair  ., Ditto .. Reported .. Bs 2 high 
Nadla. . ve 
Sadar ee 0-78 114/16 114/16 Favourable .. নি Nil .. Fair .. Sufficient .. Reported ., Be. 1-19, high. 
7 continued. 


Ravaghat es 045 115/16 116/16 Ditto «» Weeding opera- Do, -» Do «+ Insufficient No report .°" Bs, 1-8, 
tion continued. 


Murshidabad. 
Sadar ++ 218 116/16 116/16 Unfavourable Weeding ৩ of ۷ .. Not good ., Sufficient *.. No report . পা Rs. 1-8, normal, 
nued, 
Lalbagh ++ 0-45 116/16 116/16 Favourable .. Transplantation Do. .. Falr -. Ditto .. Ditto ., Re. 1-6, 
8 
Kandi موم‎ 2 1116 2 1/16 Ditto .. Ditto Do. .. Do ২, Insufficient Ditto .. Ba, 1-8, 
Jangipur ee Nil 118/16 118/16 Ditto .. Geed bed propa- Do. Do. .. Sufficient .. Ditto .: Re. 1-8, normal. 
ration oconti- 
nued. 
Burdwan. 
Sadar ےہ‎ 0189 1158/106 115/16 Favourable .. Transplantation Nil .. Fatt .. Insufficient No report .. Res. 1-18 nor. 
Asanso] 7 8-48 2 8/16 9 8/16 Ditto ٤ নত Da, = Do. «. Sufficiont .. Ditto ৮ Re. 1-8, 
Katwa بی‎ 0-20 114/16 1164/16 Unfavourable Ploughingham- Do, .. Do, .. Ditto ., Ditto .. Ra ور‎ 
ser ]رپ‎ 
Kalna 090ب‎ 114/16 114/16 Favourable ., Amen i وس‎ Do. . Do .. Ditto .. Ditto .. Raid, 


480 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUI.Y 19, 19856 


পাস 


Total The minimum 
rainfa)] price of coarse Character of Stage and progress of ক” of Prospects of Fodder Cattle. Labour wages 
Districta and during fice in seers per weatherand!ts agricultural opera- seed, ifany. thestanding condition. disease. without food, 
subdivisions. the 0. effect on the tions. . crops ۱ 
week, grt standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous outtarn). 
week, week. 
1 2 806) 8(b) 4 5 6 ۲ 8 2 10 
Birbhum. 
7 08 6 Favourable .. Aman and Aus Nil ১৬ Fair .» Jusuffcient No report .. Re. 1-8, : 
ghadar 0 116/16 115/16 Favo ‘tel es po normal 
tion going on. 
BRampurhat oe 1 “BO 1 14/ 16 1 14/ 16 Ditto oe Aman transplan- Do. ৪৪ Do. ee Sufficient ee Ditto ee Ra. 1-7, normal. 
tation started. 
Bankura. 
Sadar Pr 1°54 2 2/16 2 2/16 Favourable .. Oultivation of Nil ~» Fair -. Sufficient .. No report .. Rs.1-8, normal. 
paddy going 
on. 
Vishnupur oe 0-06 2 1/16 2 1/16 Unfavourable Manuring of Do. ee Do. we Ditto .. Ditto .. Be. 1-4, normal, 
Kbariff contl- 
10060, 
81185887976, 
Sadar (North) .. 200 2 2 ae Transplantation Nil ہم‎ Fair ৭ .. Sufficient .. No report .. Ks. 1-8. 

( ) int “8 
Sadar (South) ee ee 2 2 5৪৩ eeee ee ee ee vese 
Contal Se 2°68 2 1/16 2 Cloudy oe cove ee ee Insufficient Reported ee ৩৪৪৩ 
Tamluk oe 8۰04 1156/16 116/16 Unfavourable Seed bed prepa- Insufficient ٤ Ditto .. Noreport .. Res. 1-12, high. 

ration conti- 
nued, 
Ghatal ےہ‎ 1°76 2 115/16 Cloudy .. Seed bed prepa- Bleak ৬৩ ve Ditto .. Ditto ., Ba, 1-8, low. 
ration pro- 
greasing. : 
Jhargram ee 1°74 2 1/16 2 1/16 Bad ee ৪৩৩৩ ee ee 860 با‎ oe Ditto ee Re, 1-4, normal, 
81668۰ ۲ 
Sadar ee 1:06 112/136 118/16 Favourable .. এ Sufficient .. Fair Insufficient No report .. Re. 1-10, 
man 
started. 
Serampur eo 2۰05 119/186 112/16 Unfavourable Aman seed bed Ditto .. Not good .. Sufficient ., Ditto .. Rs. 1-10. 
in progress. 
Arambagh ৬৬ 1°76 115/16 116/16 Favourable .. Ditto ‘a Ditto .. Fair ss Ditto ,. Ditto .. Be. 1, bigh. 
Chandannagar ee 1 12/16 112/16 eevee پر ریب‎ ee ae oe ee eeee 
Hewrah. 
Sadar eo ee 1 15/16 1 15/16 enee رید‎ জর 7 ae ee ৬৪৪৩ 
181১1 -۰ এ 116/16 1186/16 Bad .-- Aman seed bed Insufficient Bad .- Insufficient No report .. غا‎ 1-14, 
in progress. 
Sadar ee 1°40 114/16 114/16 Oloudy ee ৪৩৬৪৩ ee ee Insufficient No report .. Rs. 2, 
Alipurduar ہم‎ 6-20 118/16 1138/16 oven Aman __ trans- ee ৩৬ Ditto... Ditto .. Res. ৫, 
plantation 
: continued. 
Darjeeling. ৬ 
Sadar ee «eo 110/16 110/16 Cloudy ৬৬ সস Sufficicnt .. Fair .. Sufficient No report ., Rs. 2 ٭‎ 
operation 
nice conti- 
nued. 
K.urscong oe 6°64 118/16 112/16 Wet 7 78৮৮9961208 88 of Ditto Do. Ditto Ditto .. Re. 8. 
vegetable and 
maize conti- 
nued 
Siliguri ৬৪ 6-00 2 15126 Favourable ee Aman anod§ibod Ditto ° Do. ee Insufficient Ditto ee Rs. 2 a 
preparation 
: continued. 
hy Kallinpong 7 1°20 6 16 Ditto ee سر‎ Ditto ee Do. ১৬ Sufficient .. Ditto ...ےم‎ Ba, 2, high. 
۵ 
begun. a 
Maida ee 0:07 1138/16 1138/16 Favourable ৬৪ ee aa aon Sufficient .. Fair »» Sufficient .. No report ¢- Ba, 1-2. 
man 
going on. 
West 7. 7 $s 
Badar ee 37 মস. 114116 Favourable ০১ Woeding of Sufficient .. Fair. .. Sufficient No report Rs, 1-10, 
jute and Aus i 
going on, ; 
Raigan} ہے‎ 2:02 N.R, 118/16 oases Transplantation Ditto . Do. .. Ditto ., Ditto ., Ras. 2 
of Aman 
Gooch Behar. 
Seder co oe 86 6 ore sen 7 2 7 ‘ss ee 
Dinhata ৪৪ 1-18 118/16 118/16 Favourable .. Aus harvesting Sufficiont .. Fair Sufficient No report .. Bs. 1-8. 
continuing. 
Matbabhanga .. oe 118/16 112/16 Ditto ہے‎ Jute and Aus Ditto Do. pe Ditto... Ditto .. Re, 2-8. 
paddy partly 
Mekliganj oe ae 116/36 115/16 Ditto ». Preparation of Ditto 7 00, ٠٠٠ 86 Ditto .. Re. 1-12. 
Aman land 
going on. 
Tufangan) rr eo 11416 114/16 Ditto «. Harvesting of Ditto 7 Do. .. 8ufficlent .. Ditto .. Ra, 2, 
Aus going on. 
N.B.-No report. 
S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
Calcutta, the 12th July 1956, for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE 08150010704 ‘GAZETTE, JULY 19, 1956 481 


eS EES ESE EEE EE ee‏ سس ڑاھے 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 
ےہ‎ Men 
“Walcutta, the 23rd June 1986. 
Notjce under section 63(2) of Bengal Act V of 
1911 


Propose Public Street No. II (Supplementary. 
[From ignanent,No. 11 (Revised) to Sil Lune] 
Notige fA*ereby given under section 63(2) of 
Bengal Act V of 1911, as amended by West Bengal 
Act XX XI Tot 1955, that the Board of Trustees for 
the inftprovement of Calcutta have prepared 4 plan 
ot the’ Proposed public street in Ward No. 48 of 
the Caleutta Municipality, known as Alignment 
۳٣ : (Supplementary) | Proposed Public Street 
from Alignment No. II (Revised) to Sil Lane. ] 
The ph” provides for opening a 60 feet wide 
street from the projected gyratory of Alignment 
No. II (Revised) to the Railway culvert near the 
ymction of Sil Lane and Fottery Road. 
The ipropésed Public Street will pass through 
the following Municipal holdings :— 
GongentgJ.ane—4. 


Kamardanga Road—3R/1 and 3R/2. 


Pottery Road—13/1B, 32/14, 82118, 829, 
82, , 8+ 83111 834, 388, 330. 
337), 34) 34/1B, 34/10, 34/1D, 34/1F, 
یں‎ 3481 168, 36, 36/1, 37, 87/1, 
38, 38/1, 39/1A, 39/1B, 394, 8رظ298‎ 80 
40C, 40D,"41, 47 and 48. 


Sil Lane—lA, 22 and 23, 


The plan 01 the proposed 
particulars of land throug 
Public Street will pass, may be gnepected at the 
office of the Trust, 10 Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta-1, on weekdays between the hours ot 
1ا‎ a.m. and 3 p.m., Saturdgys 11 a.m 91011 
12-30 p.m. 


Copies of the Notice may be obtined on pas- 
ment of a fee of annas 2 per egpy and of the plan 
at annas 8 per copy. 


Objections to the said plan may 
on or before the 28th September 1951 


ublic Street ang the 
which 8 fed 


submitted 


5. K. GUPTA, Chairman. 
Calcutta Improvement Trust 


NOTICE 
Calcutta, the 1111) July 1956. 


Notice is hereby given under section 7(4) of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act, 1911, as amended, that the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry 
have, as required under section 16 of the Calcutta Improvement Act, 
elected Mr. A. C. T. Blease of the Calcutta Tramways Co., Ltd., 4 70 
Row Extension, Calcutta, as their representative on the Board of Trustees 
fo. the Improvement of Calcutta, in the vacancy caused by resignation of 
Mr. A. Smith with effect from 15th July 1956 for the residue of his term 
which was due to expire on 10th July 1958. 


S. K. GUPTA, Chairman. 


CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA 
CORRIGENDUM 
Calcutta, the 11) July 19656. 


It is notified tor general information that the last paragraph, viz., 
‘‘Apny person having any objection to the proposed rules should send, the 
same to the Secretary, Corporation of Calcutta, on or before the 3rd October, 
19638, after which date the proposed rules will be proceeded with further” 
appearing on page 882 of the Supplement to the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 
15th September 1955, was inserted and printed in the said notification by 
mistake and that the said paragraph should be deemed as deleted 


B K. SEN, Commissioner. 


Prioted and جج یں‎ by the Superintendent, Goyernment ৮1582, West Bengal, ۱ 


at West Bengal Goggrnment Press, Alipore on the Ih July 1956 


No. 7 (Er "Na. 353(1)‏ ۳۰۸ 1را “ا 
Che কিছ / : বা‏ 
৪ ) পি‏ 


/ 
pa’ 
ঠা 


(08111110 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY JULY 19 ۶۴ 
سے سے‎ eee mr ےب‎ SES 
BART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Gevernment Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
LOCAL SELF-COVERNMENT DEPARTMENT 
Local Self-Government 
NOTIFICATION 


২) 6219/M.1M-102/55.—17th July 1956.—It 
1১ hereb¢ notified under section 50 of the Bengal 
Munictpal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 1932), 
that the following persons have been duly elected 
0 Commissioners of the Kanchrapara Municipality 
I the district of 24-Parganas at the genera! 
election held on the 5th یس‎ 1056 :— 


Ward No. I 
Siri Benoy Mukut Roy. 


1675 


1676 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, = [Pane] 
JULY 19, 1956. 


রন সারার wee আত | ئ2‎ জজ সারার সর 


Ward No, 1 
Shiri Nani Gopal Sen. 


Ward No. 1 
Shri Beyoy Basanta Nandy. 
Shri Jagadish Chandra Das. 
Shri Amulya )۰ 
Shr Achyuta Lal Bagehi. 
Shri Monoranjan Sett. 
Shri Sailendra Nath Naha. 


Ward No. IV 
Shri Sudarsan Dubey. 


By order otf the (tovernor, 
N. M. 04: 
Jt. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal 


৩ 


Printed and published by the Superintendent Govt. Ptg., Weet Rn 
at West Bonga! Govt. Presa, Alipore, on the 19th July 198 


Registered ‘No, C207 রি No. 28401) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


nT 
FRIDAY, JULY 20, 1956 


০১০০০ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the 
High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
Public Health 


NOTIFICATION 
No, BLT. /2647/2R-37/56.—18th July 1956.—Whereas the Governor is 
batished that the municipal area of Ranaghat is threatened with an out- 
break of cholera; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (11] of 1897), the (dovernor 
is pleased to prescribe the following temporary regulations for the preven- 
tion and control of cholera, and for the medical inspection, isolation, 
observation and surveillance of persons suffering from, or suspected of 
being infected with, cholera in the said municipal area for a period of 
three months : — 


TEMPORARY REGULATIONS FOR THE PREVENTION AND 
CONTROL OF CHOLERA. 


1. In these regulations, unless there 28 anything repugnant in the 
subject or context— 


(৫) ‘‘Health Officer’? means the Health Officer of the municipality; 


(b) “Sanitary Inspector’? means a Sanitary Inspector appointed by the 
municipality ; 


(c) ‘Suspected cholera” means any disease accompanied by vomiting 
and diarrhoea; 


(d) ‘‘Patient’’ means a person suffering from or suspected to be suffering 
from cholera; 


(6) ‘Medical practitioner’? means any person practising the medical 
profession. 


1677 


1678 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JUPY 20, 1996 [Parr ] 


2. Whenever any land is held jointly by two or more persons, whether 
as owners or occupiers of that land, such persons shall be held jomtly and 
severally liable for carrying 6ut any measure ordered in o notice under these 
regulations, and the names of any ome or more of such joint-holders may he 
entered upon such notice at the discretion of the Health Officer or a Sanitar 
Inspector and the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector shall not be bound 
to enter the names of all the joint-holdera in the notice. 


Notices. 


38. If in any case the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector considers 
that the issue of a notice under these regulations is likely to lead te such 
an amount of delay as might facilitate the spread of cholera he may forth- 
with take such steps as he may think fit for carrying out the work, and shal! 
thereafter, as soon as possible, issue a notice on the person concerned stating 
the reason why such work has been carried out. 


4, If any measure which the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector has, 
by a notice issued under these regulations, required to be carried out 
he not carried out to his satisfaction within the time stated in the notice, 
the Health Officer or a Sanitary Jnspector shall be entitled to carry out 
the measure. 


Costs and compensation. 


5. (1) All expenses incurred in carrying out any work in pursuance of 
un order issued under these regulations shall be paid by the municipality 
except in any case where the order directs a person to carry out any work in 
relation to property in his possession, in which case the expenses shall be 
puid by that person: 


Provided that where the conditions, which led the Health Officer or a 
Sanitary Inspector to pass such an order, are not attributable to any act or 
default of the persons in possession of the property, the municipality may 
pay to such person the whole or a part of the expenses incurred by him in 
carrying out the order. 


(2) The municipality may recover all expenses incurred by the Health 
Officer or a Sanitary Inspector in carrying out the measure under regulation 
4 from the person or persons to whom the notice was originally issued. 


0. The municipality shall pay adequate compensation to any person who 
hos sustained substantial loss or damage by reason of anything done under 
these regulations: 


Provided that no person shall receive any compensation for anything 
done, or suffered under these regulations, if he has failed to carry out an 
order “issued under these regulations within the time specified in the order 
and to the satisfaction of the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector. 


Location of disease. 


7. When a case of cholera or suspected cholera occurs in a house, the 
nearest male relative in attendance upon the patient, or in the absence of 
auy such relative the occupier of the house, or if the occupier be the patient. 
some male inmate of the house shall, within twenty-four hours of the onset 
of the disease, give information regarding the ovcurrence of such case eithe 
personally or in writing to the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector. 


0৮111] 7 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 20, 1956 1679 
س‎ 


een 

® (1) If intormation has not already been given under regulation 7, the 
medical practitioner culled im to attend*upon any case of*cholera shall forth- 
with give notice of the case by special messenger to the Health Officer or a 
“anitary Inspector and ihe cost of such messenger in each case shall be 
defrayed by the municipality. 


(2) The Doctor-in-charge of a hospital ur a dispensary within the 
‘municipality shall forthwith give notice of any case of cholera brought to 
such hospital or dispensary for treatment to the Health Officer or a Sanitary 
Inspector by a special messenger and the cost of such messenger in each 
case shall be defrayed by the municipality. 


9. Registrars of births and deaths shall supply to the Health Officer or 
a Sanitary Inspector auch periodical returns of cases of cholera as he may 
trom -time to time call upon them to furnish. 


10. The Health Officer or o Sanitary Inspector may examine any 
person who is, or suspected to be, suffering from cholera or who, in his 
opinion, may be infected with or likely to spread cholera. 


Isolation of patients and evacuation of houses, etc, 


11. When the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector considers 
that the isolation of any patient is a precaution necessary for the protection 
of the neighbouring population, he shall order the patient to observe 
isolation and may order the nearest relative in attendance on the patient, or 
the occupier of the house in which the patient is staying to arrange for the 
\solation of the patient in such a manner and for such a time as may be 
approved by the Health Officer or the Sanitary Inspector. 


He 81701] not direct the patient to be removed from the house unless it is 
m his opinion impossible to make proper arrangements for his isolation 
therein. 


12, The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may order that 
১100 person, who has in his opinion been exposed to infection from cholera, 
shall take such drugs in such quantities as may be specified by the Health 
(Officer or 0 Sanitary Inspector or shall submit himself to anti-cholera 
inoculation within a time to be specified in the order. 


13. No person shall enter any place wherein a patient is isolated under 
نا ات‎ 11 without the permission of the Health Officer or a Sanitary 
007. | 1 


14. The municipality shall provide free of charge suitable places, with 
nevessary attendants, medicine, diet nnd other necessaries for persons 
isolated under regulation 11: provided that a private individual may 
provide places certified by the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector as 
heing fit for the purpose of such isolation. 


16. If it is not possible for the Municipal Commissioners to provide 
suitable places with necessary attendants, diet and other necessaries for 
isolation of the patient or if satisfactory arrangement for such isolation is 
not also possible in the house where the patient is staying, the patient shall 
he aent, under proper sanitary precautions, to the hospital within or outside 
the nearest municipality where there is suitable arrangement for isolation. 


16. No person, who is or has been suffering from cholera shal] have 
the place where he has been ataving until he har received from the Health 
Officer or a Sanitary Tospector written permission to do so. 


1680 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 20, 1956 [Parg 1 


سم PS‏ تب 


17. The Health Officer or 0 Sanitary Inspector may require any 
person to allow to be curried out by such agency, and within such time ag 
may be specified in the order, such measures for the disinfection or evacua- 
tion of any premises in the occupation of such persons or for the disinfec. 
tion or destruction of any of his personal effects, as the said officer or 
inspector may consider necessary. 


18. The Health Officer or oa Sanitary Inspector may direct the 
owner or occupier of any premises to cause to be inoculated with anti-cholerg 
vaccine within o time specified in the order any person residing on such 
uremises and under the control of such owner or occupier if the Health 
Officer or a Sanitary Inspector is of opinion that such person has been 
exposed to infection from cholera. 


19. The Health Officer or ao Sanitary Inspector may forbid any 
person who has been a patient or who hus, to his knowledge, been in contuct 
with a patient to act as vendor of any article for such period as may be 
specified in the order. 


20. No person shall carry or permit to be carried in a public conveyance 
n patient except in the case where a patient is carried with proper 
precautions to a hospital. 


21. No person shall sell any article which has been in contact with a 
patient until it has been disinfected to the satisfaction of the Health 
Officer or a Sanitary Inspector. 


22. No person shall expose in any street, shop, bazar, or any public 
place any clothing, bedding or other article which has been in contact with 
n patient or shall cause or suffer such articles to be carried in any public 
conveyance. but nothing in this regulation shall apply to a person who 
transmits with proper precautions against spreading the disease any such 
article for the purpose of having the same disinfected. 


23. No person shall carry or permit to be carried in a public conveyance 
the dead body of any person who has died of cholera without the previous 
written permission of the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector and 
without taking proper precautions against spreading the said disease. 


Water-supply. 


24. (1) When the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector is of 
opinion that the water in any well, tank, pool or other possible source of 
water-supply is contaminated or is likely to be contaminated, he may at 
once-take such steps as he deems necessary to close such well, tank, pool or 
other source of water-supply, or may require the owner or occupier of Jand 
upon which such well, tank, pool or source of water-supply is situated, to 
take steps to close the same to the satisfaction of the Health Officer 
or the Sanitary Inspector as the case may be, within such time as may be 
specified in the order. 


(2) The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may require such 
owner or occupier to keep during such a period as shall e specified 
in the order any well, tank, pool or other sources of water-supply closed 
under paragraph (1) of this regulation. 


Ezplanation.—In this regulation, ہا“‎ close’ includes the placing of 
watchman to prevent access to the well, tank, pool or other sources of water: 


supply. 


paat I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 20, 1956 1681 
a a aa a ag چرچ‎ 

25. When the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector is of opinion 
that the water in any well, tank, pool or source of water-supply is cOn- 
taminated he may disinfect it or order 168 owner or occupier to disinfect it 


with such disinfectants us he may specify in such quantities and at such 
times a8 he may think fit. 


06. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit persons 
from entering into or using for drinking, bathing, or any other purpose, 
during such period as may be specified in the order, the water in any well, 
(2100) pool or other possible source of water-supply, which, in his opinion, 1s 
contaminated or likely to be contaminated. 


27. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may, by an order pub- 
lished at such places as he may think fit, set apart any well, tank, part 
of a river, stream or channel not being private property, or being private 
property with the consent of the owner, for the supply of water for drinking 
or culinary purposes and may prohibit therein or within a distance therefrom 
to be stated in the order all bathing, washing of clothes or animals, or other 
acts calculated to pollute the water; and may similarly set apart any well, 
tank, part of a river, stream or channel for the purpose of bathing or for the 
purpose of washing animals or clothes or for any other purpose connected 
with the health and cleanliness of the people using such water-supply. 


28. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit 
persons from easing themselves, or throwing, depositing or discharging any 
rubbish, sewage, or offensive matter, into اپ‎ well, tank, pool or other 
source of water-supply, which is used by the public, or within such a distance 
aia such well, tank, pool or source of water-supply as he may fix. 


Conservancy and sewage disposal. 


29. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may (1) prohibit the 
committal or continuance of any nuisance, or (2) require the person causing 
any nuisance or the person occupying the premises on which any nuisance 
exists to remove such nuisance. 


Ezplanatton.—In this regulation ‘‘nuisance’’ means anything which in 
the opinion of the Health Officer or Sanitary Inepector is likely to spread 
or to cause the outbreak of cholera. 


30. Whenever the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector is satisfied 
that the condition of any privy, urinal, drain, sewer, or cesspool is such 
as to cause risk of spreading cholera to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood 
he may order the occupier of the land in which such privy, urinal, drain, 
sewer or cesspool is situated to disinfect, or to allow an officer of the 
municipality to disinfect, the same with such disinfectants in such 
quantities and at such time as the said officer or inspector shall think fit. 


81. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may for the 
prevention of the outbreak or spread of cholera order the owner or occupier 
of any land to repair or make efficient to the satisfaction of that officer or 
inspector any drain, sewer, privy, urinal or cesspool which is situated upon 
such land or to remove any such drain, sewer, privy, or urinal or close any 


such cesspool within such time as may be fixed by the said officer or 
(nspector. 


Miscellaneous, 
82. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may during the 


prevalence of any outbreak of cholera order that any market, shop or other 
public place shall remain closed for such time as may afpear to him to be 


1682 THE CAL. GAZ. থা, JULY 20, 1956 [Pary, | 


১ ہے‎ কর রায়ান ais oy 


necessury and may forbid the holding of any fair, mela, or other gathering 
to which people from surrounding places commonly or periodically resort. 


33. The Health Officer or @Sanitary Inspector may require the 
owner or occupier of any land to clear and remove within the period specified 
in the order, any vegetation upon such land the existence of which in the 
opinion of the said officer or inspector conduces to the committing ot 
nitisances upon such land. 


34, The Health Officer or ao Sanitary Inspector may issue general 
orders that by a specified date certain sanitary precautions of oa simple 
nature such as lime-washing of houses, clearing of latrines or the removal 
of filth or rubbish shall be carried out to his satisfaction. 


30. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit persons 
from retaining or selling clothes taken from the bodies of persons who have 
died of cholera and may cause any such clothes to be destroyed. 


36. No person shall, without the written permission of the Health 
লা or a Sanitary Inspector, dispose of any corpse except by burning or 
07181, 


37. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may approve burning 
or burial grounds, and may by order direct either generally or specially in 
respect to any specified aren, that corpses shall not be burned or buried at 
places other than those so approved by him. 


88. Any person burning or causing to be burnt any corpse shall cause 
the same to be completely reduced to ashes, and shall likewise cause the 
clothes or other articles brought with such corpse to be reduced to ashes. 


39. he Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may direct that no 
person shall bury or cause to be buried any corpse which in the opinion of 
the Health Officer, is likely to spread cholera in a grave not constructed of 
masonry and less than six feet deep. 


40. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may order that no dome 
or other servant of the municipality employed for the disposal of corpses 
shall withdraw from his duties without the permission of the Health Officer 
or a Sanitary Inspector unless such dome or other servant of the munici- 
pality has given notice in writing not 1698 than one month previously of his 
intention so to withdraw. 


41. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may through ت:‎ person 
authorised by such officer or inspector in that behalf seize and dispose of 
any corpse, which in the opinion of the said officer or inspector, is infected 
with or is likely to spread cholera, unless the relatives or friends of the 
deceased person satisfy him that they are prepared and able to dispose of t¢ 
corpse in a manner which will prevent the spread of cholera. 


42. (1) The Health Officer or Sanitary Inspector may require 0110 
person who appears to he acquainted with facts in connection with any 
ease of cholera or suspected cholera to attend before him at a time to be 
stated in the order and at any place not more than one mile from the place 
where such person resides or is staying when the order ig issued, and such 
person shal] appear as so required. 


(2) When the person summoned to appear under paragraph (1) is 2 
female, who, by the custom of the country, does not appear in public suitable 
precaution shal] he taken to respect the said custom. 


part I] 11115 CAL. GAZ. 15118 JULY 20, 46 1683 


_— ০ সপ Se lee eet ee পন 


SS SS سكسُ سس‎ ——S == 

#43. (1) The Health Officer or a Sunitary Inspector may examine orally 
any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances 
of & case Of cholera or suspected cholera. ৪ 


میں ہے مت ہہ ےا 


(2) When the person to be examined under paragraph (1) is a female 
who, by the custom of the countiy does nes appear in কে the officer shall 
(916 her statement under such conditions as shall admit of due respect te 
ihe said custom. 


(3) Such person shall be bound to answer all questions relating to such 
case put to him or her by such officer, othér than questions the answers to 
which would have a tendency to expose him or her to any crmminal charge. 


44. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may, with such 
assistants (if any), as he thinks fit, enter upon any land, or after two hours’ 
00006 In writing, into any premises or ظط‎ used fur human habitation 
nt any time between sunrise and sunset for the purpose of carrying out any 
measure or making any enquiries authorised by these regulations. 


45. The crew of any inland steam vessel or boat which plies in any 
vanal or river and other persons residing on such vessel or boat shall be 
subject to these regulations. 


46. All inoculations under these regulations shall he performed 
gratuitously. 


47, (t) Orders issued by the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector 
under these regulations shall be in writing. 


(vi) The officer oe such orders shall cause copies of them to be served 
এ any persons named in them. 


(12) The nearest relative of a patient or the occupier of the house in 
which the patient is staying shall, if a copy of the order under regulation 
(ا‎ has been served upon him, give to the nearest Sanitary Inspector or to his 
office, immediate notice of any disobedience of the order by the patient. 


48. No person shall sell or offer for sale or keep, store or hawk about 
for sale any ice, icecream or aerated water unless the same has heen manu- 
factured by a firm duly licensed under the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1 
(West Bengal Act XXXII of 1951), or the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 
(Bengal Act XV of 1932). 

By order of the (tovernor, 


N. 0. KAR, 
Dy Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printod and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal. 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on tho 20th July, 1956. 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, JULY 21. 1956 
Pe = SS Ta 
PART J--Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 
Political 


00 ٤ 


No, 66071”./:18/866. — 20th July 1956. — In 
exercise ol the power conferred by sub-section (2) 
of section 7 of the West Bengal Security Act, 1950 
(West Bengal Act XIX of 1950), the Governor is 
pleased to make the following amendment to the 
Giovernment of West Bengal, Home (Political) 
Department order No, 991P., dated the ۹۹ 
February 1955, published at page 111 of Part I of 


1685 


1686 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 


JULY 21, 1956. [Parr I 


০ সু 
the Calcutta Gazette, Frtraordinary, 17৮6২, the 4th 
February 1955, namely: — 


Amendment 


In the Schedule to the said order, in the entries 
in column 3 under the heading ‘‘Persons authorised 
to grant permits” after entry 5, add the following 
entry, namely :— 


“6. The Security Officer.” 


By order of the Governgr, 
S. DUTT-MAZUMDAR, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


রিপা লা রি ডি وج و سد‎ এর তব ০ রন 
Printed and published by the Superintendent Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 2186 July 1956. 


Registered "7 No. 356(1) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, JOLY 21, 1956 


ee আর ee a و-ھووەمےستوح۔‎ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LAND AND LAND REVENUE DEPARTMENT 
Land Reforms 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 12884L.Ref.—2Ist July 1956.—The following draft of an amend- 
ment which, in exercise of the power conferred by section 69 of the Weat 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 1 of 1954), the 
Governor proposes to make in the West Bengal Ketates Acquisition Rules, 
1954, as subyequently amended, is hereby published, as required by sub- 
880 সা of the said section, for the information of persons likely to be 
৪৬, thereby. 


ট 2, Notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into considera- 
(দি on or after the 318 July 1956 und any objection or suggestion with 
18819 thereto which may be received by the undersigned before that date 
shall be considered. 


Draft Amendment 
After rule 15 of the said rules mnsert ihe following rule, namely :— 


“Manner of determining land revenue and rent in respect of part of 
an estate falling outside Calcutta.—15A. For the purpose of sub- 
clause (1) of clause (>) of sub-section (1) of section 16, the land 
revenue or rent payable by an intermediary during the previous 
agricultural year in respect of the portion lying outside Calcutta 
of an estate comprising Calcutta shall be fixed at an amount bear- 
ing to the total revenue or rent payable in respect of the entire 


1687 


THE CAL. GAZ.-EXTHY., JULY 21, 1956 [Parr J, 


1688 
75,5৮০ 


estate rg "th said year the same spfoportion as the annual 
‘assets of such portion bears to total annual assets of the estate: 


Provided that the Revenue"Officer may, if he thimks fit in any case, fix 
such land revenue or ‘rent in the same proportign' of ‘the total 
revenue or rent payuble for the entire estate og the atea of such 


portion bears to the total area of, such estate.” 


By order of the Goverpor, 
S. BANERJEE, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


ই 
ublished by the Superintendent, Government ging. West Bengal, 
lat July 1956 


Printad and 
est Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 2 


at 


» ১16, 86701) 


4 1 & 


ray 
t 
1 


کی 
uf‏ ্ | 
1 
/ 
ووے_- 


vO 
| ۱ 
™~ 2 
رب‎ 
ACY ; 


Lxtraordinary 
Published by Authority 


সমস‏ ہے pee‏ ہے 


স্পা সপ পা 


دسا 


SATURDAY, JULY 21, 0 


T I-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
ILAND AND LAND REVENUE DEPARTMENT 

Land Acquisition 

NOTIFICATION 
Burdwan.—No. '12826L.A.—21lst July 1956.— 
11 (iovernor 18 pleased to cancel so much of the 
utitiation No 82121, A., dated the 3lat May 
95% Winder section 4 of the Land Atcquisition 
it, f of 1894, published at page 803(c), Part I 
| the’Waleutta Gazette, Extraordinary of the 
ly idem, as relates to pieces of land 
mprising cadastral survey plots ag detailed 


elov and measuring, more or leas, 34 of an 
re out of the total area of 694 acres of land 


1689 


1090 11153500074 GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, | (Pas¥ 
JULY 21, 1958. 


52 SSS 
notiged for 9০৫01191801) for the Damodar Valle 
Corporation for High} Bank Canal of Bhaluka 
frem chainage 365.80 ta chainage 395 in conner- 
tion with the Damodar Flood Contral Project in 
the district of Burdwan : 


DISTRICT BURDWAN.- 
Thana Kalina 
Village Isabpur, jurisdiction list No, 67. 


sadastral survey plota in part—757 and 8:11) 


By order of thé Coveryor 
P.M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West 11۸,۷۱ 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., Weat 100 
at Weat Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 218৮ July 1956. 


Registered ) C207 No. 35508) 


2 ex : 1 ۹ 
۴ 1اأد×عیوط)/‎ | এ ۱ 
کل ان‎ yt 
& ৭ লা শর ue = 7 و‎ a 
era mt جرط4‎ Rt: 
Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


Galrittta 


= ই سای‎ 


TUESDAY, JULY 24, 1956 


RT J—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
nengul, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.—No. 12854L.A.—2lst July 1956.— 
héreas the functions of the Central Uovern- 
ient under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 ) of 
894), insrelation to the acquisition of land for 
he purposes of (19 nion have been 
ntrusted to the State Government by notifica- 
ion No, 20/1/55-Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 


And whereas it appears to Governor that land 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, being 
purpose of the Union, namely, fur the town- 
Ip in ঢা with the Durgapur Steel Pro- 
t in the village of Bhiringi, jurisdiction 
t No. 68, thana Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, 
trict Burdwan, it is hereby notified that a 
ce*of land in Block “05 comprising cadastral 
vey plot Nos. 1486, 1487 and 2766 and parts 
‘cudastral survey plot Nos. 1472, 1484, 1485 
1488, ond measuring, more or less, 16.97 
es, 18 likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
ءا‎ purpose at the public expense within the 
egaid village of Bhiringi. 


1691 


1692 THE CALCUTTA GAZEITE EXTRAORDINARY, (2 হু 
JULY 24, 1956. 


This notification 1s made, under the ok HE 


of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom it 
may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well us in that of the Admnustro- 
tor, Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, 
Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
said section, read with the said _ notification 
the Governor is pleased to authorise the officers 
for the time being engaged in the undertuking, 
with their servants and workmen, to enter upon 
and survey the land and do all other acts 
required or permitied by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable, who has any abjec- * 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may within thirty 
days after the date on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in _ the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 
as amended by Act XXXVIII of 1927 and read 
with the aforesaid notification the Governér is 
pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
HA of the Act shall not apply to the waste or 
arable portions of the land in this case. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. ta the Govt. of West Bengal. 


—a—— = 


সি 0১১0 
Printed und 17361558050 by the Superintendent, Govt. 37064, Weat [39758 
at Wes: Bengal Govt. Press, Alipors, on the 24th July 6 


Registered No. C207 No. 359 (1) 


ء0 


Extraortlinary 
Published by Authority 


PO aa aa!‏ ہے۔۔( سی শিলা তাপ‏ جب ج 


TUESDAY, JULY 24, 1056 


PARI I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the 
High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No. 90421)58./1)111,-22/66.--16118 July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3893Dis./1)/ 
3/-10/54) dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537Dis. / 
))/7L-47 /54, dated the 2181 July 1954, and its corrigendum No, 4130))is./D/ 
7L-47/64, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 218৮ July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Iudustriel Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
کت‎ (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri 8. C. Mukherji, District Judge, as 

ember; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Nagendra Nath Das, a workman 
of Bharat Jute Mills, Ltd., Kadamtala, Howrah, before the said Tribunal 
against the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished the 
suid workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Tisputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adju- 
dicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award te the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial J)isputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


1693 


1604 TH CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 (Paar 1 
A ee আপ 
ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Nagendra Nath Das in connection with 60۷٥۶۲۰ 
ment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order No. 1988Dis. /D/ 
7L-48(A) /53, 2329Dis. /D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis, /D /3A-10/54, 3537Dis. | 
D /7L-47/54 and 4130Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
Bengal including Bharat Jute Mills and their workmen (case No. 218 
of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL’ TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: 
Suri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Suri 8. C. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Nagendra Nath Das, himself. 
For the Jute Mell: Shri Haradhan Khara, Assistant Labour Officer. 


AWARD 


The (tovernment of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
No. 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th Apri] 1954, order No. 2329Dis. / 1) 
7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3838938Dis. 7 [3A-10/54, dated 12th 
July 1954, order No, 3037 Dis. /1)/7L-47/54, dated 9186 July 1954, and order 
No. کت‎ 1)111/-47154, dated 26th August 1954, referred, under sections 
7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the industria] 
dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen regarding some 
matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award 
of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 6th October 1935. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 9:34 of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 218 of 1955, was 
filed by Shri Nagendra Nath Das on the allegation that he was an employee 
of the opposite party and he used to work as a sardar of the Mixing Depart- 
ment of the Mill, that on 2nd April 1954 the petitioner received a serious 
injury on his left hand in course of his duty for which he had to remain 
absent with the permission of the opposite party for his treatment, that 
the petitioner's left hand has been permanently injured and useless, that 
as it was nmpossible for the petitioner to work, the petitioner approached the 
Company and asked for the payment of gratuity, ات‎ wages due, 
Provident Fund money credited on both accounts and also for the leave 
wagey due, that the opposite party refused to pay the legal dues to the 
petitioner, that the opposite party oe contravened the provisions of section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Act by refusing to pay off the normal benefits 
during the pendency of the Tribunal and without taking permission from 
the Tribunal, that in the circumstances the petitioner prays for an award 
directing the Company to pay the petitioner the earned wages due for 19 
days, the leave wages due for the statutory period, Provident Fund mone\ 
including the employer’s contribution, gratuity at the rate of 15 days’ 
pay for each year of service for service of 14 years. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the petitioner was a line sardar in the Webbing Department and not in the 
Mixing Department, that the opposite party admits the accident but denies 


THK CAL. GAZ EXTRY., বায] 24, 1956 1605‏ رت 
eres‏ سے سو سے کس ہک 2টি‏ بسسے 


[180%71165 altogether as the maiter is pending for adjudication before the 
Court of the Commissioner for Workmen’s Compensation, West Bengal, 
that the petitioner waa offered all his dues but he refused to accept the same 
aud wanted to see the decision regarding his claim before the Commissioner 
tor Workmen's Compensation, West Bengal, that he was duly advised and 
gay supplied with the requisite form No, 19 by the opposite party to apply 
+, the Provident Fund Commissioner, that he is not entitled to any gratuity 
by way of compensation since he enjoyed the Provident Fund benefit and 
he has already applied for such compensation before the Commissioner for 
Workmen’s Compensation, West Bengal, that he has not served the 
Company for 14 years the date of his appointment being 7th August 
1949, that in view of the facts the opposite purty never refused to pay him 
jis legal dues and on the contrary advanced him a sum of Ra, 210 which 
still remains unadjusted, that in the circumstances the petition 19 not main- 
tainable and the opposite party prays that the petition be rejected. 


eee ert mee er سہے‎ 


DECISTON 


We had not to enter into the merits of this case as the petitioner on 5th 
June 1956 filed a petition praying for permission to withdraw his petition 
for complaint under section 33A of the fndustrial Disputes Act. We have 
read and considered the petition and we grant the petitioner permission to 
withdraw his complaint as prayed for. The petition for withdrawal will 
form a part of this award. As the petition of complaint under section 37۸ 
is withdrawn, there will be a ‘‘no dispute’? award in this case. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


ANNEXURE 
BEFORE THE JUTE TRIBUNAL OF WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT ; 
Suri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge. 
Smut 8. C, MUKIERJI, District Judge. 


Re.—Industrial Dispute under ser- 
tion 388A of the Industrial 1)15- 
putes Act, 1947, 


The joint petition of Employer Com- 
pany, Bharat Jute Mills and the 
employee Nagendra Nath Jas, 
sardar of the Webbing J)epart- 
ment of Bharat Jute Mills, Das- 
nagar, Ilowrah, 

Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH : 


d 


1. That the above industrial dispute is settled amicably between the 
parties on the following terms :— 


(a) That the petitioner will be paid earned wages for 16 days and leave 
wages totalling in all Rs. 88-10-6 pies (Rupees eighty-eight 
alnas ten and six pies only) in full and final settlement of all 
claims raised in the application under section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 


1696 ۲117(7 CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 (Pant 1 


(b) That there is no further industrial dispute between the parties. 
(c) That the above application be disposed of in the above terms. 


(d) That an award be made in terms of this petition which will form 
a part of the award. 


For the Company: 
HARADHAN KHARA, 
Assistant Labour Officer for Bharat Jute Mill, ,ا‎ 
0-6-56. 
NAGENDRA NATH DAS. 
For the applicant Nagendra Nath Das. 
Dated Calcutta, the bth day of the June 1956. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3648Dis./D/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3393Dis./D/ 
8A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 95971)15.11)| 
7L-47/54, dated the 21st July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. /J)/ 
71,-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 2186 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
Judge (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri 8. C. Mukherji, District Judge, as 


Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Jagadish Prosad, a workman of 
Bhutoria Jute Mill, P.O. Salkia, Howrah, before the said Tribunal 
against the said Company alleging that the said Company had discharged 
the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal] has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government: 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor ia pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


part T] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1697 


سلس سد سے eee‏ 2 0ا ات 
ANNEXURE‏ 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Jagadish Prosad in connection with Government 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos, 1988Dis. /D/7L- 
48(A)}/53, 2329Dis, /D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis. /D/ 
7۰47/54, and 4130Dis, /D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
Bengal including Messrs. Bhutoria Jute Mills and their workmen (case 
No, 221 of 1955), 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Suri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Suz 9. C. MUKHERJI, strict Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Supravat Mukherji. 
For the Jute Mull: Shri P. R. Mukherji, Pleader. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
0. 1988Dis. /D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329Dis. /D/ 
2 184, dated 6th May 1964) order No. 99991)15.11)194-10154, dated 12th 
uly 1954, order No. 3587Dis. /T)/7L-47/54, dated 2186 July 1954, and order 
No. 4130Dis. /D/71.-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referred, under sections 
7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen regarding some 
matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award 
of this Tribunal in respect of this proceedings was published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 6th October 195d. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 38A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 221 of 1955, was filed 
by the petitioner Shri Jagadish Prosad on the allegation that he was 
appointed as an electric mistry under Messrs. Bhutoria Jute Mills for about 
two years on a monthly pay of Rs. 125 per month, that the petitioner had to 
do overtime duty up to 16 hours a day almost regularly, that the applicant 
went on making representation to the management for payment of his dues 
for working extra hours and also for giving his leave wages, etc., that all the 
appeals of the applicant ended with a result of his illegal discharge from 
service, that on 23rd of February 1955, the petitioner applied to the 
Company that he was unable to work for more than 8 hours a day, that on 
24th April 1955 the petitioner was verbally told that his services were no 
say required without showing any reason, that the matter was brought 
to the notice of the Assistant Labour Commissioner, Howrah, with a prayer 
that the Company should reinstate him to his previous post and also to ask 
the Company to pay up all his dues, that the Conciliation Officer in the office 
of the Assistant Lahour Commissioner advised the petitioner to apply to the 
Tribunal and as there was no chance of any amicable settlement with the 
Company, that in the circumstances the petitioner prays fer asking the 


1698 TH CAT. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1946 [1১৬ ] 


এস রে সত শত জজ জা لے تل 3 تہ ملا‎ — 
Power ees gy تھوہ ود ں سے‎ 


Company to show the reasons for his illegal discharge against the provisions 
of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act ond 9180 prays for direc ing 
the Company to pay him three months’ pay in lieu of notice, one month's 
leave salary, 23 days’ wages dues, double wages for three months and six 
days, leave pay for 15 days, sick leave for 15 days and other reliefs. 


Notice of the aforesaid compluint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement on Ist Wecember 955 
stating that the opposite party denies each and every allegation in the 
written statement filed by the said worker except those that are specifically 
admitted, that the work of the petitioner was never entirely satisfactory nor 
had he to do any overtime duty up to 16 hours almost regularly, that the 
worker for reasons best known to him was not attending the factory since 
26th April 1955 without any leave or any intimation to the management, 
that his sudden absence on 25th April 1955 caused a preat setback when the 
Mill was started half an hour late aie the scheduled time and the Company 
in consequence had to undergo heavy loss in production due to the sudden 
absence without notice, that 1t was i found at the time that the petitioner 
had taken out some pins of the main switch board of the line with clear 
intention to damage the property of the Mills and he never turned up since 
then, that the management never issued any discharge order on this worker 
and it must be presumed that he had voluntarily left the service of the 
Company and as such he is entitled to no relief, that regarding his claim 
as embodied in his petition the management denies that he is entitled to 
any such relief except his due wages for 23 days, that in the circumstances 
the Company submits that the application of the petitioner be rejected. 


DECISION 


At the time of hearing, both parties came to a compromise and filed a 
joint petition of compromise. We perused the joint petition of compromise. 
The-terms are fair and legal. We accept the petition of compromise and 
make our award in terms thereof. The petition of compromise will form a 


part of this award. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 
S. C. MUKHERJI, Member, 
ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL OF WEST BENGAL, 
JUTE TRIBUNAL. 


Re.— Industrial Dispute of Messrs. 
Bhutria Jute Mill 


And 


In the matter of an application under 
section 994 by Jagadish Prosad. 


The humble joint petition of the Com- 
pany abovenamed and the worker 
most respectfully 


The 25th June 1956. 


SHEWETH : 


That the above industrial dispute under section 934 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act has been fully and finally settled on payment of Ra. 426 
(rupees four hundred and twenty-five) only which is being paid fo the work- 
man opposite party (Jagadish Prosad). 


per 7] 11115 CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 24, 1906 1699 
a i a রিট রা এটি নটি টির রি রিনি টি নিউটন রর 


@hat the Tribunal may be pleased to pass an award and thir petition will 
form a part of the award. 


0. 5. TEWARY, 


For Bhutoria Jute Mills 
(Labour Officer), 


15-6-56. 


PUSHPITA RANJAN MUKHERJI,‏ تھسة 
Lawyer of the Company,‏ 


15-6-56. 
Sart SUPRABHAT MUKHERJI, 


For the workinan. 


JAGADISH PROSAD. 
Dated, Calcutta, Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, 
The 15th June 1956. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 
8. 0. MUKHERJI, Member. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. 0, MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3044Dis./D/71L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
eroment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No, 3993Dis./D/3A- 
10104, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537Dis./D/ 
(147/04, dated the 2lat July 1954, and its corrigendum No 4130Dis./D/ 
7۱۰41 / 54 dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jule Mills mentioned in the 
hst attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1944, read with the 
sald addendum, dated the 2181 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
nig [০ as Chairman, and Shri 9,700 Mukherji, District Judge, 
as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Dinabandhu Paul, a 
workman of Tudlow Jute (o., Titd., 2.0, Chakasi, Changail, Howrah, 
before the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said 
Company had dismissed the said workman concerned in such dispute ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 


জন upon the said complaint and submiited its award to the State Govern- 
Ment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
lerehy to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


1700 THE CAL. GAZ EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1111 ॥ 


ওটি এর টিএসপি সা --ہ‎ ৯ ভিউ সাজি det ae চা = জা - a= ط×‎ of Guat رش‎ দত 
ee 20 eee eee রশ তে [০১১১১ ই 0ِ 0 80 : 


a 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Dinabandhu Paul, in connection with Covernment 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour order Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48. 
(A)/53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3398Dis./D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis.,D/ 
7L-47 /54, and 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 2151 July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
ا‎ including Ludlow Jute Mills and their workmen (case No. 272 
of 1955), 


PRESENT £ 


M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman.‏ ة8 
Suri 8S. C. MUKHERJI, Dustrict Judge, Member.‏ 


For the workman; Shri Biswanath Ash, Advocate. 
For the Jute Mall: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988Dis./D/71L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, 0108: 
No. 2829Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3398Dis./D/ 
3A-10/54, dated 12th July 1954, order No. 35387Dis./D/TL-47/54, dated 
21st July 1954 and order No, 4130Dis. /D /7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
referred under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV 
of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their 
workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal 
tor adjudication. he award of this Tribunal in respect of this procveed- 
ing was-published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th Octoher 1955, 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 272 of 1955 was 
filed by Dinabandhu Paul on the allegation that he is a permanent workman 
of 14 years’ continuous satisfactory service, that on 15th September 1955 he 
was charge-sheeted by the management for joining an illegal strike along 
with others on 24th August 1955, that he submitted his explanation on 
16th September 1955 denying the charges, that he was suspended from 
15th September 1955, that the alleged enquiry held on 20th September 
1955 was stage managed, that the petitioner was not allowed to defend ۰ 
self or to cross-examine the witnesses but was forced to sign the final order 
of dismissal hy persons of rank and position whose names the petitioner 
is at this stage unable to disclose for fear of dire consequence, that the 
complainant accordingly prays for reinstatement and compensation for the 
period of his 10760 unemployment. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement contending that the appli- 
cation under section 33A filed by Shri Dinabandhu Paul is misconceived 
and not maintainable in Jaw as the Company has not, in any way, violate 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the Company has already 
filed an application under section 99 on 28th September 1955 seeking per- 
mission of the Tribunal to dismiss him, that he was suspended pending 
permission of the Tribunal, that in the circumstances the Company prays 
that the application under section 33A filed by the complainant should be 
rejected on the preliminary point of law. 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1701 
সস 
DECISION 

We had not to enter into the merits of this case as the petitioner filed 
qa petition praying for permission to withdraw his petition for complaint 
under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act. We have read and con- 
sidered the petition and we grant the petitioner permission to withdraw 
his complaint as prayed for. The petition for withdrawal] will form a part 
of this award. As the petition of complaint under section 33A is with- 
drawn, there will be no dispute award in this case. 


M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman, 
.ة5‎ )۸. (3111111112011711, Member. 
The 26th June 1966. 


BEFORE THE JUTE TEXTILE INDUSTRIAL, TRIBUNAL, WEST 
BENGAL. 


In the matter of an application under 
section ddA 01 the Industrial Disputes 
Act Shri Jjinmabandhu Paul (S.M.41) 
Misty Quarters, 1/9-10, Ludlow Jute 
Mill, P.O. Chengail, district Howrah 


Complainant, 
VETSUS 


Messrs. [10010 Jute Co, Ltd., P.O. 
Chengail, district Howrah 


Opposte Party. 
The humble petition of the applicant 
workman abovenamed, 
MosT RESPECTFULLY SHEWETII: 


1, That he does not want to proceed with his complaint under section 
89) now pending before this learned Tribunal, as he has already filed an 
application under section 28 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act before the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta. 


2. That, in the above circumstances, the applicant humbly prays that 
Your Honour would be pleased to treat ihe application as withdrawn and 
pass orders accordingly. 


And for this act of kindness, as in duty bound, your humble petitioner 
shall ever pray. 


DINA BANDHU PAUL. 
M. C. BANERJT, Chatrman. 


Calcutta, May %, 6 
S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 


The 25th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MATTRA, Dy. Secy. 


1702 11111 CAT. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1966 [Parr 1 


ene এ 


ORDER 

No. 8045Das. /1)/71.-22/56.—1th July 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Labour Depaitment, order No. 3393)i./D/dA- 
10104) dated the lzth July 1954, 2600 with 115 addendum No. 3h87Dis./D/ 
7L-47/54, dated the 2lst July 1954, und its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. /T)/ 
71-47 |64, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West HKengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
suid addendum, dated the 2181 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by tho Unions and I[*edera- 
tions mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred 
for adjudication to an Tndusirial Tribural with Shri M. (. Banerji, District 
নিজ (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri 8. C. Mukherji, District Judge, as 
Member ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before tle said 
Tribunal a complaint in wriling was made by Shr Pundeo Singh, a work- 
man of Gagalbhai Jute Mills 11001.) Sijiberia, P.O. Uluberia, Howrah, 
before the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said 
Company had punished the said workmen concerned in such dispule; 


And wheteas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 388A of the 
Indusirial Tisputes Act, 1947 (XIV ot 1947), the said ‘Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(tovernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the Governor is pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Pundeo Singh in connection with Covernment 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48- 
(A)/53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis./D/ 
7L-47/54, and 4130Dis, /D /7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954, 1261 July 1954, 2151 July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respec- 
tively, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in 
West Bengal including Messrs, Cagalbhai Jute Mills Co., Ltd., and 
their workmen (case No. 15 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAN. 


PRESENT: 
.لا :8تت"‎ 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Suri 8. 0. MUKHERJT, District Judge, Member. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of V.ahour, by 
order No. 1988])is. /D/71-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2829- 
Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 33895Dis./D/8A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1964, order No. 3537Dis. /D/71-47/54, dated 21st July 1954, 
and 4130Dis./1D/71-47/64, dated 26th August 1954, referred, under sec- 
tions 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the 
industrial disputes between 101 specified jute Mills and their workmen 
regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was 
vublished in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1965. 


pant 1] THK CAL. 6۸۸. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1708 


ea RL RT سحدسویت‎ 

While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present upplication under‏ پ 
১101) SIA of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 15 of 1955, was‏ 
fled by Shri Pundeo Singh on the allegation that he had been working in‏ 
the said Mill as a durwan for about last 7 years, that the charge-sheet, was‏ 
served on the petitioner on the allegation that the petitioner‏ 
was found = sleeping while on duty, that neither any proper‏ 
enquiry was held nor the petitioner was given any hearing in person‏ 
vor any opportunity was given to the petitioner to prove his innocence, that‏ 
the petitioner was suspended before the employers filed any application for‏ 
permission before the Tribunal under section 83 of the Industrial Disputes‏ 
Act to dismiss lim, that the suspension and/or dismissal of the petitioner‏ 
was illegal and ultra vires, that the motive behind this victimisation is that‏ 
the petitioner retused to pay the usual bribe 00 Mr. ٢. 11. Pathankar, the‏ 
durwan-in-clrarge who is in the habit of accepting the same regularly from‏ 
the durwan for a long time, that as such the petitioner should be reinstated‏ 
to hia previous post, that the petitioner is also entitled to get full compensa-‏ 
tion for the period kept out of employment, that in the circumstances the‏ 
petitioner prays that the employers should he directed to reinstate him to‏ 
his previous post and 10 pay full compensation for the period he was kept‏ 
out of employment.‏ 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having heen served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement on Jrd March 1955 contend- 
ing that the application of the complainant Pundeo Singh is not maintain- 
uble as 1 does not reveal any violation of section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, that an application under section 33 of the Industrial J)isputes 
Act seeking permission of the Honourable Tribunal for the dismissal of 
Pundeo Singh has already been filed by the Company, that the application 
of the complainant contains various vague, misleading and false allegations, 
that the complainant was found sleeping on duty by the departmental-in- 
charge at 11-45 p.m. on 20th December 1954 and between 12-30 a.m. to 
12-45 a.m. on 21st December 1954, that as a serious theft of mill properties 
had occurred on the preceding night a warning had been issued to all 
durwans to be vigilant, that the complainant’s serious negligence of duty 
constituted a misconduct and a charge-sheet was issued to him on 218 
December 1954, calling upon him to explain his conduct, that after receiving 
his explanation, o full enquiry was held, that as a result of the enquiry 
the Manager found that Pundeo Singh was guilty of gross negligence of 
duty and accordingly decided that he should be dismissed but would remain 
suspended pending permission of the Tribunal, that in the circumstances 
the complainant is not entitled to reinstatement and/or any compensation as 
claimed by him and the the application of the complainant should be 
rejected on the preliminary point of law and/or on merits. 


NECISION 


Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of 
service for failure to apply under section 33 for permission of this Tribunal 
has heen filed, it has now been proved by the employers that actually this is 
not the case. In fact they applied under section 88 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused the 
applications under section 83 and under section 33A of the Industrial 

isputes Act and we find that the petition under section 88 covers the 
ground which forms the subject matter of the complaint under section ۸ 
of the Tndustrial Disputes Act and which has since been struck off as the 


a became functus officio after one month of the publication of the 
ard, 


1704 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr 1 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of رکا ون‎ 
Products of India Ltd. (1955 1[:.1۰,[., Vol. I, page 346) that it is the con- 
travention by the employer of the provision of section 88 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act or section 23 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which gives rise 
to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and move the 
respertive authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and powers 
conferred on it by the section. The authority referred to in the section 
is a Court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly he strictly confined 
to the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it by the Act 
which constituted it. 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission of 
the Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the 
petition of complaint under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act is not 
maintainable and we award accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3048Dis. /D/71.-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the (ov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Lahour Department, order No. 87991)15,11)134- 
10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 8h387Dis./D/ 
71.-47/54, dated the 2186 July 1964, and its corrigendum No. 4180Dis./7)/ 
71.-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal hetween the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 21st July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. ©. Banerji, District 
৮ (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri §. C. Mukherji, District Judge, as 

ember; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Umed Ali, Dandi, a workman of 
Angus Jute Works, P. 0. Angus, Tlooghly, hefore the said Tribunal 
against the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished 
the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 38۸ of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in purauance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


Part 1] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1705 


SSS পলিপ‏ ,سے ےس ہے ہہ سے سے 
ANNEXURE‏ 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Umed Ali, Dandi, in connection with Covernment 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order No. 1988Dis. /.D/7L- 
48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No, 2328Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 
6th May 1954, order No. 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, dated 12th July 1954, 
order No. 3537Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 21st July 1954 and order 
No, 4130Dis. /D /7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referring certain 
industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal including 
Angus Jute Works and their workmen (Case No. 96 of 1955) and in 
the matter of an application yinder section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, filed by Umed Ali, Dandi, in connection with 
Government of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order No. 1988Dis, 
/D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th Apri! 1954, order No. 2329Dis. /D /7L-47/54, 
dated 611 May 1954, order No. 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, dated 12th July 
1954, order No. 3537Dis. /D /7L.47/54, dated 21st July 1954 and order 
No. 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referring certain 
industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal including 
Angus Jute Works and their workmen (Case No, 275 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL ‘TRIBUNAL WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: 
Surt M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Surt 8. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman; Shri Rajani Mukherji. 


For the Jute Mill: Shri R. .ا‎ Moitra of Indian Jute Mills’ Association 
with Mr. Jack. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988])is./1)/71-48(A)/63, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329 
is. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3437])is./1)/71.-47/54, dated 21st July 
1954 and order No. 41380Dis./D/71-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, re- 
ferred, under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV 
of 1947), the industrial disputes between 101 specified Jute Mills and their 
workmen regarding some matters apecified in a schedule to this Tribunal 
for adjudication. The Award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding 
war published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, one application under section 
383A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 96 of 1955 waa filed by the 
petitioner (med Ali, Dandi, stating that he was charge-sheeted on the 14th 
March 1965, that the Angus Co., I.td., representative of the owners of 
Angus Jute Mill Co. is bound to comply with the standing orders certified 
for the Angus Jute Mill on 28th December 1948 but Mr. Grieve has now new 
conditions of service, in force, which ore alterations of the conditions of 
service, that the petitioner submitted an explanation in time on 15th March 
1944 but no further enquiry has been made, that under the circumstances it is 
prayed that the charge-sheet and the warning notice be kindly cancelled 
and declared as out of Court and in contravention of the standing orders 
In force since 28th December 1948, that the so-called rules and regulations, 
,ءا‎ having never heen certified be declared as not current and never in 


1706 THK CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1986 [1১571 1 


force, that the Labour Officer, the Chief Labour Officer and the represe¥. 
tative of the Managing Ageuts who have not once but always adamantly 
and persistently contravened and altered the conditions of employment he 
properly dealt with. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served the Oompany 
filed its written statement stating that the application under section 33vA 
is not maintainable in law as no violation of section 33 has been made, that 
the service condition of the River Transport Staff which have incorporated 
the provisions of the Standing Orders applicable in case of Jute Mill workers, 
have been in force since the ھا ا‎ of 1958, that in any event, therefore, 
these service conditions have existed before the Omnibus Tribunal was 
constituted in April 1954 and no alteration in the conditions of service has 
taken place during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal, 
that in the circumstances the Company submits that the said application 
be rejected. 


While the aforesaid dispute wus pending, the other application under 
section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act was filed by the petitioner Umed 
Ali in case No. 275 of 1955 on the allegation that he was a Dandi employed 
as permanent workman in boat No. 10 of ساد‎ Jute Works, that during 
tie pendency of the adjudication proceedings before the Tribunal the peti- 
tioner was suspended by the Company until permission from the Tribunal 
to dismiss him was obtained, that the employers contravened clause (b) of 
section 83 of the Industrial Disputes Act as amended, that in the circums- 
tances the petitioner prays that no amount should be deducted on account 
of this wrongful punishment and the costs and other relief which will be 
deemed proper by the Tribunal be awarded. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application under section 338A is misconceived and not maintainable in 
law as the Company has not, in any way, violated section 38 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, that the Company has already filed an application under 
section 33 on llth July 1955 aa পি permission of the Trmbunal to dismiss 
the workman concerned, that pending such permission he was suspended, 
that the Company prays that the application under section 338A filed by the 
complainant should be rejected on the preliminary point of law. 


For the sake of convenience of decision these two cases are taken up 
together and hence this Award will govern both the cases. 


DECISION 


Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of 
service for failure. to apply under section 33 for permission of this Tribunal 
has been filed, it has now been proved by the employers that actually this 
ig not the case. In fact they applied under section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused the two 
applications under section 33 and under section 3A of the Industrial 
Tisputes Act and we find that the petition under section 88 covers the 
cround which forms the subject matter of the complaint under section 37۸ 
of the Industrial Disputes Act in each case and which has since been struck 
off as the Tribunal became functus officio after one month of the publication 


of the Award. 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automohile 
Products of India Ltd. (1955 1. 154. J. Vol. I, page 346) that it is the con- 
travention by the employer of the provision of section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act or section 23 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which gives 
rise to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and move 


771 THE CAL, GAZ EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1707 
eee 


{# respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and powers 
conferred on it by the section, The authority referred to i the section 
» a Court of Tamited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly confined 
ig the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it by the 
Act which constituted it. 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission of 
dhe Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the petition 
of complaint under section 538A of the Industrial Disputes Act in 9801) 
of these cases Nos. 96 of 1956 and 275 of 1955, 18 not maintainable and we 


award accordingly. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 
8. C. MUKHERJIT, Alemher. 


The 26th June 1956. 


By order of the (tovernor, 
N. ©. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 30491 is/1)/ 71-22 /56.—16th 117 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Iabour Department, order No. 3393Dis./D/SA- 
10/4, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3487Dis. /1D/- 
71,.-47/54, dated the 21st July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130)is./D/- 
71,-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954 read with the 
said addendum, dated the 2181; July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1994, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
ame (Retired) as Chairman and Shri 9.0. Mukherji, District Judge, as 
Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made hy Shri Achutanandan Shai and Shri Radhu 
Rov, workmen of Luxmi Jute Mills Jitd., 184 Belliaghata Road, VP. 0. 
13611011012) 24-Parganas, before the said Tribunal against the said Company 
alleging that the said Company had punished the said workmen concerned 
in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 38A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 


cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Govern- 
ment; 


_ Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Tndus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Achutanandan Shai and Shri Radhu Roy in 
connection with Covernment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, 
order Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48(A)/53, 2329Dis. /D /7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /- 
D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis./D/7L-47/54 and 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 
7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 12th July 1954, 2151 July 1954 and 26th 
August 1954, respectively referring certain industrial disputes between 
101 Jute Mills in West Bengal including Luxmi Jute Mills Ltd. and 
their workmen (Case No. 97 of 1955), 


1708 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Pant ॥ 


' BEPORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT: 
Siri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chatrman. 
Sur 8. C. MUKHERJT, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Joy Gopal Adhikari, Branch Secretary. 
For the Jute Mill: Shri R. L. Moitra of I. J. M. A. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Tabour, by order 
No. 1988])is. /)/71-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329Dis./D/- 
71-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No, 8598Dis./D/3A-10/54, dated 12th 
July 1954, order No. 3587Dis./D/71-47/54, dated 21st July 1954 and 
4130Dis./D/71L.-47/54, dated 26th August 1964, referred, under sections 7 
and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen regarding some 
matters specified in a Schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The Award 
of this Tribunal in respect of this preceeding was published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 6th October 1956. 

While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 97/55 was filed hy 
the two workmen Shri Achutanandan Shai and Shri Radhu Roy complaining 
that the petitioners are permanent workers of the Beaming Department of 
the Mill, that on 28rd February 1955 the petitioners were charge-sheeted 
and suspended by the management on the ground of had work and were 
asked to submit their explanation, that the petitioners submitted their 
explanation, that since then the management has not given the petitioners 
any letter and they are stil] now allowed to work, that this action is a viola- 
tion of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the petitioners 
have put in 18 years of service, that in the circumstances the petitioners 
pray for reinstatement with consequential relief. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application under section 383A filed by Radhu Roy and Achutanandan 
Shai is not maintainable in law, that the Company has not violated section 
7:01 the Industrial Disputes Act, that on 23rd February 1955 the two 
workmen, Radhu Roy and Achutanandan Shai were served with 
charge-sheets for bad work on account of their negligence, that the workmen 
concerned were suspended pending permission of the Tribunal to dismiss 
them and the Company’s decision was duly notified to them, that the 
Company was fully justified in taking action against them for repetition 
of had work due to thir negligence, that the Company’s action was bona 
fide and legal, that in the circumstances the Company submits that the 
petitioners are neither entitled to reinstatement nor any relief and_ the 
application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act may be 
rejected. 


DECISION 


Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of 
service for failure to apply under section 35 for permission of this Tribunal 
has heen filed, it has now been proved hy the emplovers that actually 
this is not the ease. In fact they applied under section 33 of 4he Tndus- 
trial Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused 
the two applications under section 33 and under section 33A_ of the 


part I] ۸ CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1709 
এত 


Disputes Act and we find that the petition under sertion 33‏ انتا اہ 
covers the ground which forms the subject matter of the complaint under‏ 
section coA of the Industrial Disputes Act and which has since been struck‏ 
off as the Tribunal became functus officio after one month of the publication‏ 
of the Award.‏ 


It hus now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India Ltd. (1956 J..1..J., Vol. I, page 346) that it is the 
(01085611102) by the employer of the provision of section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act or section 23 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which 
gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and 
move the respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and 
powers conferred on 1 by the section. The authority referred to in the 
section 18 & Court of Tamited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly 
eopfined to the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it 
by the Act which constituted it. 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission 
of the Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the 
petition of complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act is 
not maintainable and we award accordignly. 


M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman. 
8. 0. MUKHERJI, Member. 


The 256th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER. 


No 000Dis. /0/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under ط٥‎ 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department order No. 3393Dis./D/ 
8A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537Dis. | 
D/7L-47/54, dated the 2lst July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / 
0/11-47 /54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in 
the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said addendum, dated the 218 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
26th August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and 
Federations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were 
referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M 
Banerji, District Judge (Retired), as Chairman and Shri তি, C. Mukherji, 
Ihstrict Judge, as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri کت‎ a workman of 
Lansdowne Jute Mill, Dakhindari, P. 0۰ وم مر‎ 24-Parganas, hefore 
the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said Company 
had punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 894 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 


cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (KIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


1710 THH CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 (Parr | 
رر تر رت گشست‎ 
ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by the worker Rojan in connection with Government 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988Dis. /D/7L. 
48(A)/53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis.;D 3A-10/54, 3537Dis,, 
D /7L-47/54 and 0 1 -47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
Bengal including the Lansdowne Jute Mill and their workmen (cage 
No. 182 of 1955), 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT: 
Suri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Sura ٠. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri 8. 0). Das Gupta, Advocate. 
For the Jute Mill: Shr R. ہا‎ Moitra of I.J.M.A. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A)/653, dated 7th April 1954, order 
No. 2829Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3893Dis./D/ 
8A-10/54, dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3537Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 
2181 July 1954 and order No. 41380Dis. /D/71-47/54, dated 26th August 1944, 
referred under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Jisputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and 
their workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this 
Tribunal for adjudication. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this 
proceeding was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1956. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 8.8 of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 182 of 1955 was 
filed by the worker Rojan stating that he has put in 30 years’ service instead 
of 10 years as stated by the Company, that the allegation made hy the 
opposite party in the petition under section 33 is baseless ‘and without any 
valid ground, that the strike referred to by the opposite party was legal 
and not illegal as maintained by the opposite party as the issue on which 
the strike was called by the worker, rests on the variation of working period 
and the pay payable by the opposite party for the increase in working hours, 
that the petitioner prays for reinstatement with compensation, and wages 
for the period of strike and gratuity. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement on 19th October 1955 stating 
that the application of the complainant is misconceived and not maintainable 
in law as the Company has not, in any way, violated Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, that on 12th July 1954 workers of the Mill resorted 
to an illegal stay-in-strike at about 7 a.m. as a protest against the schedule 
of working hours proposed by the management for 45-hour weeks, that 
Rojan was one of the persons who threw stones at the Durwans at about 
11 p.m., that a charge-sheet was issued to Rojan on 13th July 1955, that 
on receipt of his explanation an enquiry was held and it was found that Rojan 
was guilty of the charges, that the workman concerned was _ suspende 
pending permission of the Tribunal to dismiss him, that in the circumstances 


part 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 L711 


حص-صُحْے ُ6 چس تمس شسٹ ٹ ______—__——_ 


the Company submits that the complainant Rojan is not entitled to rein- 
statement and/or any ("۷ and it further submits that the claim 
tor payment of wages for the period of illegal strike and/or gratuity is alga 
untenable. 
DECISION. 

Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of ser- 
vice for failure to apply under section 33 for permission of this Tribunal 
has been filed, it has now been proved by the employers that actually this 
ig not the case. In fact they applied under section 33 of the Industrial 
Jisputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused the two 
applications under section 33 and under section d3A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and we find that the petitibn under section 33 covers the ground 
which forms the subject matter of the complaint under section 394 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and which has since been struck off as the Tribunal 
hecame fumctus oficto after one month of the publication of the Award. 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India Ltd. (1955 L.LJ., Vol. I, page 346) that it is the 
contravention by the employer of the provision of section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act or section 23 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which 
gives rise to a cause of action in favoursof the workman to approach and 
move the respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and 
powers conferred on it by the section. The authority referred to in the 
Section is a Court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly 
contined to the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it by 
the Act which constituted it, 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission of 
the Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the petition 
bf complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act is not main- 
fainable and we award accerdingly. 

M. ۸ BANERJI, 


Chairman. 


S. 0. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 2th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3061Dis./1D)/7L-22/66.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
overnment of West Bengal, Labour Department order No. 01 
A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537Dis. | 
)1111-41154, dated the 218٦ July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / 
/7L-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
ute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in 
he list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
he said addendum, dated the 218 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
bth August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and 
ederations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were 
60781 for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. 
anerji, District Judge (Retired) as Chairman and Shri S. C. Mukherji, 
istrict Judge, as member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
f complaint in writing was made by Shri Manindra Nath Chakraborty, a 
orkman of Union Jute Mill, North, 12 Convent Lane, Entally, 24-Parganas, 


1712 THH CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr | 


before ihe said Tribunal] against the said Company alleging that the ‘said 
Yompany had punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudj. 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
ما‎ publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disnutes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Manindra Nath Chakravarti in connection with 
Covernment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1983. 
Dis. /D /7L-48(A) /53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Djs. /D /3A-10/54, 
3537Dis. /D /7L-47 /54 and 4130Dis. ] D /7L-47 /54, dated 7th April 1954, 
6th May 1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, 
respectively, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute 
Mills in West Bengal including Union North Jute Mill and their work 
men (case No, 183 of 1955), 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT: 
Surt M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Suri 8. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judye, Member. 


For the workman: Shri M. N. Chakravarti himself. 


For the Jute Mill: Shri R. Ju. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills’ Association 
- with Shri A. Das, Deputy Chief Labour Officer. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988Dis./D / 7L-48(A)/538, dated 7th April 1954, 010৫. 
No. 2329Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 99931)18.11)] 
3A-10/54, dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3537Dis./1D/7L-47/54, dated 
215 July 1954 and order No. 4130Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
referred under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and 
their workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this 
Tribunal for adjudication. The Award of this Tribunal in respect of this 
proceeding was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1928. 


— While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 183 of 1955 was 
filed by the petitioner Shri Manindra Nath Chakravarti alleging that the 
petitioner is a permanent workman and employed as a Clerk in the Labour 
Office, that he has put in over 6 years’ continuous service, that op 28th July 
1955 he was given a charge-sheet by the Company under rule 14(c)(iv) of 
the Standing Orders for misconduct, that the petitioner submitted his 
explanation but the management after enquiry found him guilty of the 
charge, that on Ist August 1955 the Company informed the petitioner that 
he should be dismissed but until permission of the Tribunal has been obtained 
he will continue to be suspended, that the Company has contravened the 
provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that in the circum- 
stances the petitioner prays for reinstatement with continuity of service a2 
full compensation for the period of unemployment. 


part T] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1713 


গু of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
arty, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the complainant joined service on Ist January 1949 and ‘was a permanent 
clerk in the Labour Office, that on 28th July 1955 at 9-20 a.m. he was 
caught by Mr. Johnston and Mr. Nicoll on the other side of the bridge near 
the new railway quarters refunding money which was taken as bribe from 
several workers on the assurance of making them permanent, that Shri Manin- 
dranath Chakravarti was then served with a charge-sheet on 28th July 1955, 
that on receipt of his explanation to the charges a full enquiry was held 
and it was found that Shri Manindranath Chakravarti was guilty of mis- 
conduct, that the workman concerned was suspended pending permission of 
the Tribunal to dismiss him and the Company applied under section 33 for 
such permission, that the Company refterates that there has been no viola- 
tion of the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as the 
petitioner was suspended pending permission of the Tribunal to dismiss him, 
that in the circumstances, the petitioner is not entitled to reinstatement 
and/or any compensation, that the Company prays that the application 
under section 383A should be rejected. 


DECISION 


$ 

Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of 
service for failure to apply under section 33 for permission of this Tribunal 
has been filed, it has now been proved by the employers that actually this 
is not the case. In fact they applied under section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused the two 
applications under section 33 and under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and we find that the petition under section 33 covers the 
ground which forms the subject-matter of the complaint under section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act and which has since been struck off as the 
Tribunal became functus officio after one month of the publication of the 
Award, 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India 1101. (1955 L.L.J., Vol. I, page 346) that it is the contra- 
vention by the employer of the provision of section 33 of the Industrial 
Inisputes Act or section 23 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which gives rise 
to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and move the 
respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and powers con- 
ferred on it by the section. The authority referred to in the section is a 
Court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly confined to 
the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it by the Act 
which constituted it. 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission of 
the Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the petition 
of complaint under section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act is not main- 
tainable and we award accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 26th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


1714 THI CAT. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 (Pary | 
বস তা শপ সস পাস সস 


ORDER 


No, 8052Dis./1)/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department order No. 3398Dis./D/ 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th J uly 1954, read with its addendum No, 3537Dis, : 
1) /7L-47/54, dated the 2181 July 1954, and its corrigendum No, 4130Dia. | 
1) /7LA7/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in 
the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said addendum, dated the 2186 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
26th August 1964, and their workmen represented by the Unions and 
TIederations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were 
reforred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. 
Banerji, District Judge (Retired) as Chairman and Shri 8. C. Mukherji, 
District Judge, as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri (touri Shankar Roy, a 
workman of Fort Gloster North Mill, Nalpur, P. O. Fort Gloster, Howrah, 
before the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said 
Company had punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 

( 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(fovernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased herehy 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Gouri Shankar Roy in connection with Covern- 
ment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988Dis. /D/ 
7L-48(A) /53, 2329Dis. /D /7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, 3537Dis. ' 
D /7L-47/54 and 4130Dis. /D /7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, ا61‎ May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 2151 July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
Bengal including Fort Closter North Mills and their workmen (case 
No. 369 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAT, 


PRESENT: 
Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
বিনা 9. C. MUKTERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Khagen Adhikari. 
For the Jute Mill: Mies P. Mitra of Indian Jute Mills’ Association. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of J.abour, by 
order No. 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, _ order 
No. 2829Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3393))is./D/ 
3A-10/54, dated 12th July 1954, order No, 3637Dis. /T)/71.-47/54, dated 
21st July 1954 and order No. 4130Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 26th Auguat 1954, 


parr I] THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 24, 6 1715 


refggred under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
ا‎ of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and 
their workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this 
Tribunal for adjudication. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this 
proceeding was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 5۰ 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 38A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 369 of 1965, was 
fled by Shri Gouri Shankar Roy on the allegation that he was a permanent 
workman having about 6 years of service, that the opposite party has kept 
the petitioner without work since 27th December 1954, that the opposite 
party filed an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act 
seeking permission to retrench the petitioner before the Tribunal, that the 
petitioner submits that there was no reason for the Company to bring up 
an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the 
petitioner feels that the Company has contravened section 33 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act by keeping the petitioner out of work without wages and 
as such the petitioner prays for relief under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, that under the circumstances the petitioner prays for an 
award directing the opposite party to reinstate the petitioner with full 
compensation for the period of forced unemployment. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application under section 33A filed by Shri Gouri Shankar Roy is mis- 
conceived and not maintainable in law as the Company has not violated 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the Company has already 
filed an application under section 33 on 13th December 1954 seeking permis- 
sion of the Tribunal to retrench the workman concerned, that the application 
under section 33A filed by the said workman contains various vague, mis- 
leading and incorrect allegations and the Company denies the same, that 
the Company prays that the application under section 33A filed by the 
complainant should be rejected on the preliminary point of law. 


DECISION 


Although a petition of complaint under section 33A alleging violation 
of condition of service for failure te apply under section 33 for permission 
of this Tribunal has been filed, it has now been proved by the employers that 
actually this is not the case. In fact they applied under section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused 
the application under section 38 and under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and we find that the petition under section 33 covers the 
ground which forms the subject-matter of the complaint under section ۸ 
of the Industrial Disputes Act and which has since been struck off as the 
tee became functus oficto after one month of the publication of the 

ward, 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Treducts of India Ltd. (1955 L.L.J., Vol. I, page 346) that it is the contra- 
vention hy the employer of the provisian of section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act or section 29 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which gives rise 
to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and move the 
respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and powers 
conferred on it by the section. The Authority referred to in the section is 
a Court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly confined to 
the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it by the Act 
which constituted it. 


1716 171] CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1906 [Panr 1 


In the present case it being proved that u petition seeking permissiow of 
the Tribunal was actually filed on the self-same grounds, we hold that the 
petition of complaint under section J3A of the Industrial Disputes Act 18 
not maintainable and we award accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman, 
C. 


S. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 29th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3084Dis./D/111.-29/55.—17th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3700Dis./D/ 
10L-7 /53, dated the 5th October 1953, read with its corrigendum No. 1219. 
Dis./D/111-16/54, dated the 24th March 1954, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Bengale Immunity Co., Ltd., Boranagore, Calcutta-d6 and 
Bengal Immunity Hesearch Institnte, 39/B Lower Circular Road, Calcutta 
and their employees represented by Bengal Immunity Sramik Union, 33 
Gopal Lal Thakur Road, Baranagore, Calcutta-36, regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule to the said order, dated the 5th October 1958, read 
with the said corrigendum, dated the 24th March 1954, was referred to the 
First Industrial Tribunal for adjudication; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings, before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Manmohan Dutta, an 
employee of the said Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
Calcutta-36, before the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging 
that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said employee, 
the conditions of service applicable to him immediately before the com- 
mencement of the said proceedings; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudicat- 
ed upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Govern- 
ment; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Manmohan Dutta, an employee of Messrs. 
Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagar, Calcutta-36. 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST 211:00۰ 


PRESENT : 


Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Judge, First Industrial 
Tribunal. 


For the complainant: Shri Suprabhat Mukherji, Pleader. 


For the employer: Shri §. C. Sen, Advocate, and Shri S. K. Dhar 
Chowdhury, Pleader. 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1717 
পার্ট 


AWARD 


The Government of West HKengal, in the Department of Jabour, by 
order No. 3700Dis./D/10L-7/53, dated 5th October 1969, referred, under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
Calcutta-d6 and their workmen to this Tribunal for adjudication. The 
award of the Tribunal on this dispute was made on 17th November 1954 
and was published in the Calcutta Gazette on 16th December 1954. | 


On 24th December 1954 Shri Monmohan Dutta, a workman in the 
employment of the Company, filed a complaint under section 833A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, complaining as follows :— 


The Company unlawfully denied bonus to him, which was a condition of 
service of the petitioner. The Company served a charge-sheet, dated 24th 
May 1954 on the petitioner, and the Director-Manager passed orders that 
the petitioner was guilty of attempt at sabotage, and he was warned and 
bonus was denied to him. This action of the Company amounted to a 
punishment and/or change of service condition, and since it was effected 
without prior permission of the Tribunal, it has come under the mischief 
of section 33 of the Industrial Disputess Act. The Tribunal should, therefore, 
order the Company to pay bonus to the petitioner which has been withheld. 


The Company, in its written statement, states as follows: 


The application under section 383A of the Act is not maintainable, in- 
as much as, it does not disclose any contravention of section 33 of the Act. 
The payment of bonus-is not a condition of service. It is an ex gratia pay- 
meut made in consideration of efficiency and good work. Bonus is paid to 
an individual workman at the absolute discretion of the Management in 
consideration of his work and efficiency. Before payment of any bonus, the 
Management scrutinises the service records and the reports of the Depart- 
ment-in-chaurge in respect of each of the workmen and then decides whether 
the workman concerned should be paid any bonous or not, and in pursuance 
of the said decision, the bonus ia paid or withheld. The Company paid 
bonus to the petitioner in May 1954 at the rate of one month’s basic pay. 
In September 1954, the Company, on considering his records and the reports 
of the T)epartment-in-charge, decided not to pay him bonus. The non- 
payment of bonus to the applicant is not a contravention of section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 


The points that arise for decision in the case are as follows: — 


(1) Is the application under section 838۸ of the Act maintainable? 
(2) Is the applicant entitled to any relief in this case? 


DECISIONS 


Point No. 1.—The question for decision is if the application under 
section 838۸ is maintainable. It is the contravention by the employer 01 
section 33 of the Act that gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the 
workmen to approach and move the Tribunal and this contravention is the 
condition precedent to the exercise by the Tribunal concerned of the 
additional jurisdiction and powers conferred on it by section 38۸ (vide the 

ecision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the case of Automobile 

Products of India, J.td., reported in 1955 L.A.C., 211). The question, 
therefore, is if the Commpany in not paying the bonus in September 1954, 
to the petitioner violated section 33 of the Act. 


1718 THH CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Paur 1 


QO. 1১, W. 1 Shri Nihar Bindu Guha deposed on behalf of the Company, 
Documents Ext. A series and Ext. B were marked for the Company. No 
evidence was adduced for the applicant. 16 appears from the evidence of 
QO. 1), W. 1 that the Company puys bonus usually three times in the 
finaucial year—once in May, aguin in September and again in the 
following January. The financial year of the Company is trom May to the 
following April. On each of the three occasions, bonus corresponding to 
one month’s basic wage is paid to the employces. ‘the witness states that 
one out of the three bonuses is paid to all employees without exception, 
but the other two bonuses are paid according to efficiency of work of the 
individual employees and their conduct. In the case of the applicant, 
Manmohan Dutta, he was given the bonus for May 1954 and January 1956, 
but was not allowed the bonus for September 1954, on account of sume 
adverse remarks about his work, which was found to be justified on enquiry, 
It is also stated that the payment of none of these three bonuses is a 
condition of service for the workmen, but it is customary in the Company 
to 80 atleast one of these three bonuses, independent of the quality of 
work. 


There is nothing on record to show that the payment of bonus 28 a 
condition of service of the employeys. O.P.W. 1 in his cross-examination 
states that 25 per cent. of the nett profit of every year is earmarked for 
payment as bonus to the employees, and Ext. B shows the amount of bonus 
paid in the year 1952-53, 1968-54 and 1954-55 and also the profits during 
these years. O.P.W. 1 also states that Manmohan Dutta was not deprived 
of the bonus in September 1954 by way of punishment. There is nothing 
on record to show that it is a condition of service for the employees to 
get all the three bonuses. 41] that the witness states’is that it is customary 
for the Company to give only one out of the three bonuses in the year, 
independent of the quality of his work. In the present case, the applicant 
was given the bonus in May 1954, and January 1955. He was deprived 
of the 1১078 paid in September 1954 I do not find that the payment 
of bonus in September 1954 was a condition of service of the applicant, 
Manmohan Jutta. That being so, it cannot be claimed that the Company 
altered to the prejudice of the workman concerned condition of service 
applicable to him immediately before the commencement of the proceedings. 
Again, it also appears that in order to attract the operation of 
clause (a) of section 88 of the Act, the alteration of the condi- 
tion of service should be in regard to a body of workmen and not an 
individual workman. This view has been held in the case of Hindusthan 
Development Corporation, reported in 1951(1) L.I..J., 37, by a State 
Tribunal of Calcutta. In any case, it appears that the fact that the 
applicant was not given the bonus in September 1954, does not attract the 
operation of section 33A of the Act. 


Tf was also argued by the learned spokesman for the petitioner that 
non-payment of bonus in September 1954 to the petitioner was a punish- 
ment to him and was a conduct which was hit by section 33(b) of the Act. 
In view of the evidence of 0.P.W. 1 that one of the three bonuses is paid 
to all workmen and the other two bonuses are paid according to efficiency of 
work and conduct of the individual employees non-payment of one out of 
three bonuses after an enquiry on an adverse report by the departmental 
head cannot be considered to be a punishment that could attract ۶ 
operation of section 33(b) of the Act. In view of these circumstances, 11 
is decided that the conduct of the Company in not giving the applicant 
bonus in September 1954, was not a violation of section 33 of the Act, and 
the present application under section 894 of the Act was not, therefore, 
competent. 


part I] IK CAL, GAZ EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1719‏ 
یٹ یس سید سم بحو یج سے سس تس یسید ےھ ور سے ستر ریس جس انت سید اچس جسسے مت سے سم سے وس سس احسسئطت س سم بیس سجشو یج سجج رر سے سے چس on‏ 


q Point No. 2,—Iiven if the application under section ddA of the Act was 
competent, it would appear from the facts of the case and the evidence on 
record that the application of the petitioner cannot succeed on merits. 
Ext. A(4) is the report by the departmental head under whom the appli- 
cant worked, stating that the petitioner was guilty of negligence in his 
work causing damage to the Company. Ext. A(3) is the charge-sheet 
gerved on the petitioner for this alleged misconduct. Ext. A(2) is the 
explanation of the petitioner. He denied the charge against him and stated 
that there was a conspiracy against him to implicate him in a false charge. 
Ext. A(1) shows the statement of witnesses, as well as the statement of the 
petitioner, taken by the enquiring officer, 0. P. W. 1. Ext. A ig the 
report of the enquiring officer. ‘le enquiring officer dealt with the 
evidence available in the enquiry and decided that the petitioner inten- 
tionally and with the bad motive to cause loss to the Company removed the 
cotton plugs from the mouths of the flasks containing valuable medicines 
and that this was a clear aitempt at sabotage. It appears to me that the 
conclusion arrived at by the enquiring officer 1s a possible view on the 
evidence before it. The Tribunal should, therefore, accept the judgment 
of the Management. The order of the Jirector-Manager appears at the 
hack of the charge-sheet and the petitioner was warned and it was ordered 
that he should not be paid the next benus. It is, therefore, clear that the 
petitioner, Manmohan Dutta, was not given the bonus in September 1954, 
as a result of an adverse report against him, which was found to be justified 
on a detailed enquiry, in which the petitioner was examined and was given 
an opportunity of defending himself. The Company was Justified in refus- 
ing bonus to the petitioner in September 1954, and the petitioner is not 
entitled to any relief even on merits This point is accordingly answered. 


In the result, it is ordered that the application under section 33A of 
the Act be rejected and it is uwarded accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJT, 


Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 25th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3085Dis./D/11L-29/55.—17th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 5۰ ٦ | 
10L-7/58, dated the 5th October 1958, read with its corrigendum 
No. 1219Nis,/D/11L-16/54, dated the 24th March 1954, the industrial 
dispute hetween Messrs. Bengal Immunity Oo., Ltd., Baranagors, 
Caleutta-86 and Bengal Immunity Research Institute, 39/B Lower Circular 
Road, Calcutta ae their employees represented by Bengal Immunity 
Sramik Union, 383 Gopal Jal Thakur Road, Baranagore, Calcutta-d6, 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule to the said Order, dated 
the 5th October 1953, read with the said corrigendum, dated the 24th March 
1954, was referred to the First Industrial Tribunal for adjudication; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Jitendra Nath Biswas, 
an employee of the said Messrs. Rengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
Calcutta-86, before the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging 


1720 ۲77 CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 (Parr | 


that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said employep 
the conditions of service applicable to him immedintely before the com- 
mencement of the said proceedings; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the suid Tribunal hag 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Jitendra Nath Biswas, an employee of Messrs. 
Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagar, Calcutta-36. 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suni M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Judge, First Industrial 


Tribunal. 


For the Complainant: Shri Suprabhat Mukherji, Pleader. 
For the Employer: Shri 8. C. Sen, and Shri 8. K. Dhar Chowdhury, 


Pleader. 
AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
Order No. 3700Dis. /D/10.-7/53, dated the 5th October 1953, referred, under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, 
Calcutta-d6 and their workmen to this Tribunal for adjudication. ‘I'he 
award of the Tribunal on this dispute was made on 17th November 1954 and 
was published in the Calcutta Gazette on 16th December 1954. 


On 24th December 1954, Shri Jitendra Nath Biswas, a workman in the 
employment of the Company, applied under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, stating as follows: Bonus is a condition of service of the 
workmen in this Company, and this bonus was denied by the Company. 
The Company served a charge-sheet, dated the 17th August 1954, against 
the petitioner and the Director-Manager passed an order that the petitioner 
was guilty of disobedience and he was warned and bonus was denied to 
him. The action of the Company, as mentioned above, amounts to 4 
punishment and a change of service condition of the workmen, and as it 
was effected without prior permission of the Tribunal, it has come under 
the mischief of section 99 of the Act. The petitioner, therefore, prays 
that the Tribunal should order the Company to pay him the bonus which 
has been withheld. 


The Company, in its written statement, states us follows: 


The application under section 383A of the Act filed by the applicant 1s 
not maintainable inasmuch as it does not disclose any contravention ০1 
section 33 of the Act. The payment of bonus is not a condition of service 
It is an ex gratia payment made in consideration of efficiency and good 
work. The bonus is paid to the individual workman at the absolute 
discretion of the Management in consideration of his work and efficiency. 
Before payment of bonus, the Management scrutinises the service records 
and the reports of the Department-in-charge in respect of each of the work- 
men and then decides whether the workman concerned deserves to be paid 


part J] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1721 
০০০৮-০৮-৮০ 
ض‎ not and in pursuance of such decision, the Company paid bonus to the 
applicant in May, 1954, at the rate of one month's basic pay. In September 
1954, the Company considering the record of the petitioner and the reports 
of the Department-in-charge decided not to pay him bonus. The applicant 
18 not entitled to get this bonus and the petition under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act should be rejected. 


The points that arise for decision in this case are as follows: 


POINTS 
(1) Is the petition under section 994 of the Act maintainable? 
(2) Is the petitioner entitled to any relief, as prayed for? 


DECISION 


Point No. 1.—The question for decision is if the application under 
section 894 is maintainable. It is the contravention by the employer of 
section 33 of the Act that gives rise to a cause of action in favour ot the 
workmen to approach and move the Tribunal and this contravention is the 
condition precedent to the exercise by the Tribunal concerned of the 
additional jurisdiction and powers conferred on it by section 33A (vide 
the decision of the Hon’ble Suprente Court of India in the case of 
Automobile Products of India, Ltd., reported in 1955 L.A.C., 211). The 
question, therefore, is 1f the Company in not paying the bonus in September 
1934, to the petitioner violated section 33 of the Act. 


O.P.W. 1 Shri Nihar Bindu Guha deposed on behalf of the Company. 
Documents, Ext. A series were marked for the Company. No evidence 
was adduced for the applicant. I1t appears from the evidence of 0.P.W, 1 
that the Company pays bonus usuully three times in the financial] year — 
once in May, again in September and again in the following January. The 
fnancial year of the Company is from May to the following April. 
The witness states that the applicant, Jiten Biswas, was given the bonus 
tor May 1954 and January 1955, but was not allowed the bonus for 
September 1954, on account of some adverse remarks about his work, 
which was found justified on enquiry. It is also stated that the payment 
of none of these three bonuses was a condition of service. The witness also 
states that Jiten Biswas was not deprived of the bonus in September by 
way of punishment. I do not find that the payment of bonus in September 
1954 was a condition of service of the applicant, Jiten Biswas. That being 
su, it cannot be claimed that the Company ultered to the prejudice 
of the workman concerned condition of service applicable to him 
immediately before the commencement of the proceedings. It appears, 
therefore, that the fact that the applicant was not given the bonus in 
September 1954 does not attract the operation of section 33(a) of the Act. 
It was also argued by the learned spokesman for the petitioner that non- 
payment of bonus in September 1954 was a punishment and was a conduct 
which was hit by section 33(b) of the Act. In view of the fact that Jiten 
Hiswas was given two bonuses in May and January and was not given the 
bonus in September 1954, because as the witness states, he did not 
deserve it by his work, it cannot be claimed that in view of these 
circumstances, it is decided that the conduct of the Company in not giving 
the applicant the bonus in September 1954 was not a contravention of 
section 33 of the Act and the present application under section 33A of the 
Act was not, therefore, competent. 


Point No. 2.—Even if the application under section 33A of the Act was 
competent, it would appear from the facts of the case and the evidence 
on record that the application of the petitioner cannot succeed on merits. 


1729 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr | 
a pe ساس ممسُمؤج“جوسٗجٗسجھمسیایمسسموووٗجسأسسمجمژسجراسموسڈیسممسمسووٗوججوکرومسصوممسمأسوٗوسسٗسسومؤوٗوجسو٘جڈسموٗہمسواّہپیموصوممموسُووژٗسسمأجفوکگکسسفجسمموسیٗأ‌پسمسم‎  مسمیمومممفکفسوٗوسمووسسمسجوسمجمساجومسادوسجومسممہ55۷9۳ص(رمیتت(حعتتمص-(ظجسا٘م[ص(.ص.ض..93‎ 


Ext. 409) is the charge-sheet served on the petitioner on the ground ٢ 
an alleged misconduct on his part. The description of the charge shows 
that Jiten Biswas stopped doing any work since 8-830 a.m. in the morning 
on 17th August 1954 in spite of repeated requests from the supervisor and 
the departmental head, and that this was a conduct amounting to wilful 
insubordination and disobedience. Ext. A(2) is the explanation of the 
etitioner. 0, A(1) shows the statement of Jiten Biswas, Jogesh 
SJhowmick and A. کا‎ Chowdhury, M.Sc., the latter being the departmental] 
head. After making the enquiry, O.P.W. 1, who was the enquiriug 
officer, submitted the report, Ext. A, to the Dhirector-Manager. He 
reported that Jiten Biswas was allotted the duty to distribute heamogen 
phials from the fillers table to the packers table, but he refused tu do the 
work without showing any reason. During the enquiry, he stated before 
the enquiring officer that he was unable to carry the phials, as directed, 
owing to physical unfitness. O.P.W. 1, concluded on an enquiry that 
Jiten Biswas was quite fit to work and carry the heamogen phials as 
directed and that he was guilty of wilful disobedience. The Director- 
Manager, in consideration of the matter, warned the petitioner and ordered 
that no next bonus would be given to him. ‘There is nothing on record to 
justify the conclusion that the charge-sheet against the petitioner, or tho 
enquiry following it and the order’ of the Director-Manager after the 
rag were not bona fide. It 1s, therefore, clear that the petitioner, 
Jiten Biswas, was not given the bonus in September 1954, as a result ot 
an adverse report against him, which was found to be justified on a 
detailed enquiry in which the petitioner was examined and was given 
opportunity to defend himself. The Company, therefore, was justified in 
refusing the bonus in September, 1954, after the enquiry into his conduct. 
The petitioner is not entitled to any relief even on merits. This point is 
accordingly answered. 


In the result, it is ordered that the application under section 383A of the 
Act Be rejected and it is awarded accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJI, 
Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 28rd June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3086Dis./D/11L-29/55.—17th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Govefnment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 87001)15.1 
D/10L-7/53, dated 5th October 1953, read with its corrigendum No. 1219- 
Dis. /D/111-16/54, dated @4th March 1954, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagore, Calcutta-26, 
and Bengal Immunity Research পাস 3917 Lower Circular Road, 
Calcutta, and their employees represented by Bengal Immunity Sramik 
Union, 33 Gopal al Thakur Road, Baranagore, Calcutta-36, regarding 
the matters specified in the schedule to the said order, dated 5th October 
1953, read with the said corrigendum, dated 24th March 1954 was 
referred to the First Industrial Tribunal for adjudication ; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the 8810 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Parimal Bhadra = snd 
13 others, employees of the said Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., ۰ 


part [| THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1723 
شش یچچ .چچشهسگپ‪یعسسٹٹمڑیسسٹڑھچ'وپهھههھہے‎ lee 
Hgnanagore, Calcutta-36, before the said Tribunal against the said 
Company, alleging that the said Company had altered, to the prejudice 


of the said employees, the conditions of service applicable to them 
‘mmediately before the commencement of the said proceedings; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A_ of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of { he 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Parimal Bhadra and 13 other employees of 
Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd., Baranagar, Calcutta-36 (case 
No. 107 of 1954 under section 33A). 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRFESENT* 
Sunt M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (76626), Judge, First Industrial 


Tribunal. 


For the complainants: Shri Suprabhat Mukherji, Pleader. 


For the employer: Shri §. C. Sen, Advocate, and Shri ডি K. Dhar 
Chowdhury, Pleader. 


AWARD. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 38700Dis./D/10L-7/53, dated 5th October 1953, referred, under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), 
the industrial dispute between Messrs. Bengal Immunity Co., .6اا‎ 
Baranagore, Calcutta-36, and their workmen to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The award of the Tribunal on this dispute was made on _ 17th 
November 1954 and was published in the Calcutta Gazette on 16th 
Devember 1954. 


Qn 23rd June 1954 Shri Parimal Bhadra and 18 other employees of 
the company, filed n complaint under section 383A of the Industrial 
Jisputes, Act stating that the Company unlawfully denied them bonus, 
which was a condition of service. It is stated that the 14 employees 
have not been paid bonus, which was due to them in May 1954. The 
petitioners, therefore, pray for an order directing the Company to pay 
the bonus which has been withheld. 


The Company, in its written stutement, states that the application under 
section 338A of the Act filed by the applicants is not maintainable, 
Masmuch as it does not disclose any contravention of section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. It is also stated that the payment of bonus is 
not a condition of service and that it 1g an er gratia payment made im 
consideration of efficiency and good work. Three bonuses of varying 
Amounts are given in a year at the absolute discretion of the Management. 
It is stated that before payment of each bonus, the Management 
scrutinises the service records and the reports of the Department-in- 
charge in respect of each 01 the workmen and then decides whether the 
workmen concerned deserves to be paid or not and in pursuance vf the 
suid decision pays the same. ‘Following the above principle, the 
Company paid bonuses in October 1953, and January 1954, to the 


1724 THN CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr 1 
লস সপ সস ০ ০১৯৯ aie 


14 persans at the rate of one month’s basic pay. In May 1954, tae 
Company on considering their records and the reports of the Department. 
in-charge, decided not to puy them the third bonus. The workers in 
question are not entitled to get any bonus or the third bonus in question 
as of right and as a condition of service, and the application should bp 
dismissed with costs. 


The points that arise for decision in this case ure as follows :— 


Points 
(1) Is the application under section 383A of the Act maintainable? 
(2) Are the applicants entitled to any relief in this case? 


DECISIONS. 


Point No. 1.—The question for decision is if the application under 
section 338A 19 maintainable. It is the contravention by the employer 
of section 83 of the Act that gives rise to a cause of action in favour of 
the workmen to approach and move the Tribunal, and this contravention 
is the condition precedent to the exercise by the Tribunal concerned of 
the additional jurisdiction and powers conferred on it by section ۸ 
(vide the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case 
of Automobile Products of India bid., reported in 1955 J..A.C., 211). 
The question, therefore, is if the Company, in not paying the bonus in 
May 1954, to the petitioners, violated section 33 of the Act. 


O. P. W. 1 Shri Nihar Bindu Guha, deposed on behalf of the 
Company. Documents Exts. A series to N series were marked for the 
Company. Affidavit, Ext. 1, was marked for the applicants. 1 appeurs 
trom the evidence of O. P. W. 1 that the Company ear-marked 25 per 
cent. of the net profit for the payment of bonus in the year in question 
us in other years, and bonus is paid up to three months’ basic wages 
payable respectively in May, September and January next. The 
financial-~ear of the Company is from May to the following April. On 
euch of the three occasions, bonus corresponding to one month’s 1)2810 
wage is paid to the employees. The witness states that one out of (119 
three bonuses is paid to all employees without exception, but the other 
two bonuses are paid according to efficiency of work of the individual 
employees and their conduct. In the case of the applicants, VParimal 
Bhadra and 18 others, they were paid bonus for September 1954 and 
January 1955, but were not paid the bonus for May 1954, on account of 
adverse remarks about their work from the departments. There was an 
enquiry over each report and they were all warned by way of punishment. 
The petitioners were not also given the bonus for May 1954. Nxt. A 
series to N series are the papers relating to the enquiry against these 
14 persons. It is also stated that the payment of none of these three 
bonuses in the year is a condition of service for the workmen, although 
it mf customary for the Company to give at least one of these three 
bonuses, independent of the quality of work. O. P. W. 1 also states that 
{he petitioners were not deprived of bonus in May 1964, by way of 
punishment. There‘is nothing on record to show that it was a condition 
of service for the employees to get all the three bonuses. 


Ext. A is an affidavit sworn by Shri N. B. Guha _ before the Hon’b't 
Labour Appellate Tribunal of India at Calcutta, in connection with the 
case of Amritalal Bhadra and the Company. In this affidavit, 
Q, P. W. 1, Shri Nihar Bindu Guha, states that bonus is not a condition 
of the service of the workmen employed in the Company, that tue 
Company pays bonus as an ez gratia payment in consideration 61 
efficiency und good work, and the principle followed in making such 
payments is as follows. 


part T] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 2, 1966 1725 


"বাতা hee, bee এ و‎ 


gu) Thiee bonuses of varying amounts are given ina year at the 
absolute discretion 01 the Management. ‘The first one is usually paid 
1) May in each year, and this is puid to every one of them. The sevond 
and the third bonuses sre usually paid in each year in October ond in 
January following respectively. Before payment of the second and the 
third bonuses, Management scrutinises the service records and reports of 
the Department-in-charge in respect of each of the workmen and then 
decides whether the workman concerned deserves to be paid or not ihe 
honus in question. In each occasion when the Management decides ihat 
the workmun concerned should not be paid the bonus in question, he is 
informed beforehand of the reasons for such non-payment of bonus and 
he is also given opportunity to make representation to the Direvtor- 
Manager for his consideration, and the decision made by the Tirector- 
Monager is final in this matter. 


(b) The amount to be paid as bonus is decided by the Management in 
each year on the basis of 25 per cent. of the net profit of the preceding 
vear and is paid to the workman concerned on the principles mentioned 
above. It has always been treated as an er gratia payment and not 3 2 
condition of service. 


In view of statement of the affidavit, it is clear that the payment of 
bonus for the May instalinent, 1.e., the rst bonus of the year, is a condi- 
tion of service for the workmen, and the act of the Company im depriving 
the workmen of this bonus may also be considered to be a sort of punish- 
ment, 11 is, therefore, clear that the Company, in not paying the bonus 
for May 1954 to the petitioners, violated section 33 of the Act und = the 
present application under section 383A is, therefore, competent. 


Point No. 2.—Fven if the application under section 383A is competent, 
the Tribunal has to adjudicate upon the complaint as if it were a dispute 
eterred to or pending before it and decide on the merits of the act and 
the order of the employer (ride decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of 
India in the case of Automobile Products of India Ltd., reported im 
1955 L.A.C., 211). The claim of the employer that in the case of every 
one of the 14 employees petitioners, there was an adverse report by the 
Department-in-charge, which was followed by an enquiry, and that on 
the results of the enquiry each of these petitioners was warned and 
deprived of the bonus has to be considered on merits. The case cf 
the individual employees will be considered below: 


(1) Partmal Bhadra and (2) Pasupati Bhattacharjee.—The charge- 
sheet on Parimal Bhadra is Ext. B(1) and that on Pasupati BKhattacharjce 
is Nxt. A(4). Both these employees were implicated in the same incident. 
A large phial of haemogen was sent to the despatch stock without putting 
the batch number on the body of the carton. This was a serious violavon 
of the Drug Rules and a major misdemeanour according to the rules cf 
the Company. Varimal Bhadra was the first checker of the phial and 
Pasupati Bhattacharjee was the final checker of the phial. They were 
charge-sheeted with the offence of negligent work in this manner. Both 
of them stated in explanation that they did not commit any error, they 
had complete confidence in their own work and that this complaint had 
heen brought against them because they were a member of: the Labour 

nion. Rangalal Bhowmick, a packer, was examined. Shri A. .ظط‎ 
Chowdhury, the Department-in-charge, was also examined. Parimal 
hadra and Pasupati Bhattacharjee were also examined by the enquiring 
oficer, Shri N. B. Guha, 0. P. W. 1, they refused to sign on their state- 
ments, Exts. A(1) and A(2) are the statements of the witnesses ۱ the 
two employees. Ext. A is the report of the enquiring officer, O.P.W. } 
Shri N. B. Guha. On a consideration of the evidence on record and 


1726 THN CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr | 
a পাকা 


the circumstances of the case, the enquiring officer found them guiltya of 
the charge, and the Director-Manager accepted this report and ای‎ 
each of them by a final warning. It was also ordered that they would not 
get the next bonus. The order was passed on 14th May 1954, 


(3) Shri Suraj Muchi.—Ext. C(6) is the charge-sheet given to Sura 
Muchi. Ext. C(4) is his explanation to the charge-sheet. .دبا‎ (1), 
€(2) and 004) are the depositions of the witnesses aud the emplovree 
concerned and Ext. 0 is the report of the enquiring officer, Shri N. ہز(‎ 
Guha, 0. P. W. 1. The employee is a sweeper. There was a chare of 
having broken three phials of Potassium Alum Chloride and 008 phial 
of Fm A জজ Chloride, causing loss to the Company THe was also charged 
of having kept the phial of Calcium Chloride concealed in the waste 
materials and sweepings. In Ext. C(4) the workman denied the charge 
and stated that Dilip Ganguli asked Suraj Muchi to 1011) the Workers’ 
Union, and to sign a paper of the Union and pay subscription for the 
(Union. It was alleged that this false charge was levelled against 07 
only to force him to join the Workers’ Union. The evidence of Shri A. K. 
showdhury, Department-in-charge, and Shri Dilip Kumar Ganguli_ were 
taken in support of the charge-sheet against the workman. Dilip Ganguli 
denied that he ever asked Sura} Muchi to sign any paper of Workers’ 
Union or ask for subscription, as‘ alleged by Suraj Muchi. Suraj Muchi 
was also examined. He refused to sign on the statement. On a consi- 
dleration of the evidence on record and the circumstances of the case, the 
enquiring officer, Shri N. B. Guha, O. P. W. 1, concluded that Suraj 
Muchi was guilty of the charge against him and reported accordingly ٥ 
the Thirector-Manager. The Director-Manager accepted the report of the 
enquiring officer and warned the employee and ordered that the next 
bonus should not be paid to him. 


(4) Shri Kalipada Das.—Ext. D(4) 1s the charge-sheet given to 
Kalipada Das. Ext. D(3) is his explanation to the charge-sheet, 
Ext. 1002) tsa statement of Kalipada Das at the enquiry and 1৮, 1001) 
is a statement of Priya Ranjan Roy, witness. Ext. J) is the report of the 
enquiring officer, Shri N. B. Guha, O.P.W. 1. Kalipada Das was 
charged of having broken the wooden piece of one of the oil ghanies at 
Nowapara. He was warned by Shri ۶. R. Roy and Shri 8. Guha. He was 
charged with having broken the wooden pieces of two more ghanies on 
28th January 1954, resulting in total deadlock in the work of the 
ghames, causing loss to the Company. He was also charged with 
having committed bad maintenance of the ghanies and _ 01619391168 
putting unusual pressure and not taking proper care and caution even on 
warning. He denied the charge in his explanation, Ext. 009), 
Ext. 1)(1) is the evidence of Shri Priya Ranjan Roy, in which he siated 
that Kalipada Das was careless in his work and did not follow his instrur- 
tions. Ext. D. is the report of the enquiring officer, Shri N. B. Guha, 
€). P. W. 1, in which on a consideration of the evidence on record and 
the circumstances of the case, he concluded that Kalipada Das did ins 
work very carelessly and maintained ghanies very badly and did not 
take any caution regarding the wooden pins of the ghaniex. The 
Tirector-Manager accepted this report of the enquiring officer and 
۷ص(‎ the employee and ordered that no next bonus should be paid to 

im. 


(6) Shri Benode Behari De.—Ext. E(4) is the charge-sheet against 
this employee, and Ext. E(5) is his explanation to the charge-sheet. 
Ext. E(3) is the evidence of two witnesses, Ext. E(1) is the statement of 
Benode Behari Das and Ext. E(2) is a report of Shri A. N. Bose, 
Department-in-charge about the explanation to the charge-sheet given by 


2] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1727 


16016 Behari De. Benode Behari De was charged with having refused 
to carry out the allotted duty of staying on lift duty til] the end of the 
meeting of the Immunity Scientific Association held on 30th April 1964 
at ىا لا سر‎ also stated in the charge-sheet that he 1efused to magn 
the notice and that his conduct amounted to disobedience of duty. 
Ext. E(6) is the order of Shri A. N. Bose asking Shri B. B. De to stay 
on duty at the lift from 5 p.m. till the end of the meeting. He was to 
run the lift and look to the electric work. The notice shows on endorse- 
ment that Benode Behari De refused to sign on the notice or accept از‎ 
and that he stated that he had engagement. In his explanation to the 
charge-sheet, Benode Behari De stated that he committed no offenre in 
not accepting the duty as offered to him and that the charge-sheet was 
8৪ a result of the conspiracy. In the report, Ext. EK, the enquiring 
oficer, Shri N. B. Guha, 0. P. W. 1, states that the evidence on rerord 
and the circumstances of the case prove that Shri Benode Behari Je 
deliberately disobseyed the order of the Superintendent. The Wireetor- 
Manager accepted this report and ordered that mo next bonus should be 
given to him, 


(6) Jan Muhammad.—Ext. F(6) is the charge-sheet against Jan 
Muhommad. He was charged to the effact that on 25th March 1954 at 
12 noon, he used abusive words towards Shri Anil Ghosh, a_ fellow 
worker, and threatened to assault him, that Shri Sukharanjan Das iried 0٥ 
stop him from behaving im such a way particularly خی‎ ‘VOrKINg 
hours, but he did not pay any heed to his request. This disorderly 
behaviour amounted to a major misdemeanour. In Ext. 706) the 
employee states that the charge against him is false. Exts. F(1), 1 (2), 
ঢ3) and F(4) are statements of witnesses and the employee سر‎ question 
at the enquiry. Ext. F is the report of the enquiring officer, Shri N. ئن(‎ 
Guba, O. 1১. W. 1. The enquiring officer found on a consideration cf 
the evidence at the enquiry that Jan Muhammed was guilty of using 
filthy language to Shri Anil Ghosh during working hours. The Director- 
Manager accepted this report and warned Jan Muhammad and_ ordered 
that he should not be given the next bonus. 


(1) Shri Sarju Ram and (14) Shri Ram Naresh.—Both Ram Naresh 
and Sarju Ram were found absent from duty on 4th April 1954 at 
11-30 a.m, and both of them were found sleeping inside the grass storing 
shed. They were then aroused from sleep and asked to explain their 
conduct. They did not resume their duty till 1 p.m. As a result of the 
above negligence of duty and sleeping during working hours, the horses 
were not supplied with dringing water till 12 noon. Ext. G@(6) 18৪ the 
churge-sheet on Ram Naresh and Ext. H is the charge-sheet on Sarju 
Ram. Both of them gave the same explanation and stated that ihe 
charge was false as a result of conspiracy, as they were members of the 
Sramik Union. Ext. G(1) is a statement of Sarju Ram and Ram ۸ 6518 
at the enquiry. Ext. G(2) and F(3) are the evidences of two witnesses 
examined at the enquiry. Ext. G is the report of the enquiring نا(‎ 
Shr: N. B. Guha, O. P, W. 1. The enquiring officer, on a considerstion 
of the evidence at the enquiry, decided that both Ram Naresh and Sarju 
Ram were guilty of sleeping during working hours and neglecting = their 
duties by not supplying drinking water to the horses in time. The 
Director-Manager accepted the report of the enquiring officer and warned 
= two employees and ordered that no next bonus should be given to 

1011], 


(8) Shri Jitendra Nath Ganguli.—Ext. 1(3) is the charge-sheet 
against this employee. He was charged to the effect that on 9th March 
1954, he was given the duty of making one 3-way stop-cock of stainless 


1728 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr ! 


oe, 


steel as per sainple but that he did not make it as per sample and "hy 
negligence caused heavy loss to the Company, and also dislocation 01 
work. Foxt. 1(2) 1s his explanation 10 the charge-sheet. Ile admits {het 
in doing the work, he committed an error. যত 1(1) (۶ the statement 
of witnesses at the enquiry, and Iixt. I is the report of the enquiring 
officer, Shri N. B. Guha, O. P. W. 1.) The enquiring officer states that 
the explanation of Shri Ganguli was not acceptable, a he was doing 
this work for the last three years. The Director-Manager accepted the 
report of the enquiring officer and decided that Shr Jitendra Nath 
Ganguli was pia ক of gross negligence of duty and causing loss to the 
Company. He was warned and it was ordered that he would not get the 
next bonus. 


(9) Shri Bireswar Das.—Ext. J(5) is the charge-sheet against 1018 
employee. The charge was to the effect that on Srd February 1954 he 
was advised by Shri M. V. Ruma, Supervisor to muke 8 pieces of 20 inches 
diameter light covers of aluminium, and that instead of cutting ihe 
aluminium sheets to the above size, he cut them into much smaller sive, 
making them absolutely useless for the purpose. He was charged of 
having caused loss to the Company and having deliberately disobeyed 
the Supervisor's instructions. 1035, J(4) is the explanation of Bireswar 
Das. He states that the defect in the work was caused by defect of 
instructions of the Supervisor. Ext. J(1) is the statement of Rireswar 
Dus at the enquiry and Ext. J(2) and J(3) are the evidence of the 
witnesses at the enquiry. Ext. J is the report of the enquiring officer 
Shri N. B. Guha, 0. 1১, W. 1. On a consideration of the evidenre at tie 
enquiry, the enquiring officer concluded that Shri Bireswar Jas did 1116 
work very carelessly and negligently. The Director-Manager accepted 
the report of the enquiring officer and wained the employee and ordered 
that no next bonus should be paid to him, 


(10). Shee Haran Chandra Deb.—¥ixt. K(6) is the charge-sheet served 
on Haran Chandra Jeb. The charge was to the effe-t that he packed 
100 phials of a certain medicine. On checking it, it was found that one 
phial was of less weight. On opening the carton in the presence of 
Haran Chandra Deb, it was found that the ا‎ was empty and contained 
no solution at all. This was a serious negligence of duty and was an 
attempt at doing harm to the Company by making it lable to censure 
by the medical profession and the Drug Control Authorities. The 
medicine was Adrenaline Chloride 1: 1000 (Batch No. 696—Control 
No. 10731). Ext. K(5) is the explanation of Haran Chandra Deb to 
the charge-sheet. He denied that he packed the empty phial, as alleged. 
Exts. K(2), K(3) and K(4) are the depositions of witnesses examined at 
the enquiry, and Ext. K(1) is the statement of Haran (Chandra Deb at 
the enquiry. In this statement, Haran Chandra Jeb refused to give an 
answer-to the questions put by the enquiring officer. 1501, K 1s the report 
of the enquiring officer, Shri N. B. Guha, 0. P. W. 1. On a_ conaider- 
tion of the evidence adduced at the enquiry, the enquiring 01,১৫1 
concluded that Shri Haran Chandra Deb placed the empty phial in the 
carton and removed the phial with the solution with some motive and 
thought that in such a big lot this would not be detected. He therefore, 
found Haran Chandra Deb guilty of the offence with which he was 
charged. The Director-Manager accepted the report and warned ۷ 
and ordered that no next bonus should be paid to him, 


(11) Shri Sontosh Kumar De.—Ext. 1504) is the charge-sheet served 
on Sontosh Kumar Jie. The charge was that on 17th March 1954 and 0 
March 1954, he packed Adrenaline Chloride (1:1000), 10 c.c. (Orali— 
Batch No. 697. The total number of phials packed by him was 109, 


part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1729 
eT a ee 


Chgeker Shri Sudhir Kumar Ghosh considered one phial ٥ be lighter 
in weight than other phials. He reported this to the Departmental 
Supervisor. The carton was opened in the presence of Sontosh Kumar 
je when the phial was found empty. Putting on empty phial in a 
carton 19 a major misdemeanour, for which the Company would ۵ 
suftered loss of goodwill and prosecution by Drug Control Authorities. 
He was asked to explain his misconduct. 11200. 141) is his explaugtion 
to the charge-sheet. He denied the charge and alleged that the charge 
wag as a result of conspiracy against him, as he was an active member of 
the labour Union. Exts. L(1) and L(2) shows the statement of 438 
مسوم‎ in the enquiry. Sontosh Kumar De was also exainined at 
the enquiry. Ext. L is the report of the enquiring officer, Shri N. 08, 
Guha, who stated that on a consider#ion of the evidence adduced and 
the facts and circumstances of the case, it had been proved that Son.osh 
Kumar De put an empty phial in the carton as a substitute for the phial 
ot medicine, which was either lost or broken. The Director-Manager 
accepted the report of the enquiring officer, Shri N. B. Guha, 0.P.W. 1, 
and warned Sontosh Kumar De and ordered that no next bonus should 
be paid to him. 


(12) حیلم‎ Shyamapada Ghosh.—Ext. M(5) is the charge-sheet against 
Shvamapada Ghosh. The charge against him was that on 12th Februarv 
1904, he was given the duty of filing one press machine part. 176 broke 
the machine part due to carelessness, causing Joss to the Company. 
Ext M4) is his explanation to the charge-sheet. He denied the charge. 
Exts. M(1), M(2) and M(3) are the statements of the witnesses recorded by 
the enquiring officer, Shri N. B. Guha, O.P.W 1۱ Shyamapada (31081) 
wat 0150 examined. 15৮ M is the report of the enquiring officer. He 
contludes in consideration of the evidence on es. that Shyampada 
(shosh broke the machine part due to carelessness and instead of informiug 
the supervisory officer about the matter, he kept the broken machine part 
concealed and for want of the part the machine remained idle for some 
time. The J)irector-Manager accepted the report of the enquiring officer 
and warned Shyamapada (Ghosh and ordered that no next bonus should 
be paid to him. 


(13) Shrt Probhat Chandra Naha.—Yxt. N(6) is the report of one 
Subodh Ranjan Chatterji about the conduct of Probhat Naha, and 
Ext. N(5) is the charge-sheet served upon Probhat Noha. The charge is 
that on 16th March 1944, he instructed Shri Subodh Ranjan Chaterji 
to stamp 200 × 10 cc phial labels for Adrenaline Chloride (Oral)—Bate 
No. 697. Accordingly, he stamped 209 labels with batch number 69%. 
On the next day, 1.e., on 17th March 1954, Probhat Naha altered numbér 
209 to 109. So, 100 Tabels with batch number 697 stamped on them were 
in excess. This action speaks of carelessness of o very serious order, 
causing loss to the Company’s property, and loss of wage of an 6٥ 
for useless stamping anil of offering scope of misuse of the a ir 
lahels for non-genuine products. Ext. N(4) is the explanation of Probhat 
Noha to the charge-sheet. He stated that it was by mistake that he 
asked 209 labels to be stamped imstead of 109 and stated that the 
allegations against him in the charge-sheet were not correct. Exts. Ni)), 
آ0‎ and N(3) are the statements of the witnesses examined in the 
enquiry. Probhat Naha was also examined. The enquiring 0110৮] 
Shri N. 73. Guha, 0. P. W. 1, concluded, ona consideration of the 
evidence at the enquiry, that Probhat Naha did his duties caraleasly, 
causing loss of so many labels and labour of stampers. The Director- 

anager accepted the report of the enquiring officer and warned Probhat 
Naha and ordered that he should not be paid the next bonus. 


1730 THR CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 (Parr | 


Qn a consideration of the matter, it appears to me that in every .۰ک‎ 
the Company served charge-sheets on the employee concerned and |,ع‎ 
him an opportunity of explaining his conduct. Thereafter the Company 
held a detailed enquiry in which witnesses were examined in the preseng, 
of the employee concerned, and it appears that in every vase, the dicisigy 
of the Munagement was a possible view of the matter on the evidence 
before it. ‘‘In such a case, the Tribunal should refraim from substitucng 
its own judgment for the judgment of the Management, of 11) sigh 
matters the Tribunal does not act like a court of appeal but rather y, , 
supervisory body exercising what would ordinanly he regardsd نو‎ 
powers of revision for correction of basic errors which go to the rwt of 
the matter and of perverse findings.’’ I do not consider that in ihe 
decision of the Management in relation to the charges against the 
employees mentioned above, there was want of bona fides, or there wag 
any case of victimisation or unfair labour practice, or violation (4 the 
principles of natural justice, or there was basic error of facts im any 
case, or there has been a perverse finding on the materials in any 19৮, 
It is, therefore, decided that the decision of the Management in relatioy 
to the charges against the employees mentioned above should 11171] 
oO) the case of Buckingham & Carnatic Ltd., reported in 1982 L.A.C., 
490). 

The 14 employees mentioned above are not, therefore, entitled 1) 10 
the next bonus, as ordered by the J)irector-Manager. It has been stated 
above that in the affidavit, Ext. 1, O.P.W. 1 Shri N. B. Guha admitted 
that the bonus payable in May 18 usually paid to every one of the 
en:ployees without any consideration, aa. that the other {wo bonuses, i.e., 
those that are payable in October (or اسنا ےت‎ and January following 
are paid in consideration of the quality of work and conduct of the 
individual employees. It is, therefore, clear thut all the employees are 
entitled to get the bonus in May, but the other two bonuses, 1.e., those 
payable in September or October and January following, are to be paid 
in consideration of the quality of work and the conduct of the employees. 
In the present cases, all the 14 employees were deprived of the bonus 
payable in May 1954, by the order of the Director-Manager as ٭<‎ result 
of enquiries on the conduct of the employees. It was argued by the 
learned spokesman for the employees that the Company was bound to 
puy them the bonus in May 1954. That is correct. <All the employees, 
however, got both the other two bonuses, 1.6.) those which were ور"‎ ٥ 
in September and January following. The employees should have been 
deprived of one bonus, 1.e., the bonus in September 1954, instead of the 
bonus in May 1954, in view of the order of the Director-Manager in a 
result of the enquiries on the charge-sheets against them. The Company 
instead of paying the bonus in May and depriving the 14 emplovees of 
the bonus in September, deprived them of the bonus payable in May, 
1954, and paid them the other two bonuses in the year. I do not .« nsuler 
that in these circumstances, any loss has been caused to the employees 
on account of their having been derpived of the bonus in May 11). 
The evidence on record suggests that all the bonuses were of the sume 
amount. In view of these circumstances, it is clear that the petitioner- 
employees are not entitled to any relief in thia case. The petition ٣ 
section 33A of the Act is rejetced. 

M. C. BANERJI, 


Judge, First Industrial Tribwal. 
The 2nd July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


N. €. MAITRA, 1(۲ ۶۰ 


part I] THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1731 


এ ORDER 


No. 3184Di1s./1/110-53/65.—20th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Tiabour Department, order No. 4046Dis./D/ 
68/55 dated the dist August 1955, the Industrial dispute between 
Messrs. empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, proprietors, Messrs. 
1105 & Co., Ltd., Norton Buildings, 1 and 2 Old Court House Corner, 
Calcutta-1, and their workmen represented hy Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, Bansberia, Hooghly, regarding the matters specified in the schedule 
thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal, a complaint was filed before, 1t against the said Company by Shri 
Pasupati (those and twelve others employees of {he said Company alleging 
that the said Company had discharged the said employees concerned in 50018 
dispute ; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
{Industrial Disputes’ Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(Jovernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the, provisions of section 17 of the 
[udustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (ATV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
(0 publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE. 


in the matter of three complaints under section 33A of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate 

\ Tribunal) Act, 1950, filed by 13 workers, viz., (1) Shri Pashupati 

Chosh, (2) Md. Hussain, (3) Natha, (4) Copal Dass, (5) Rasul Mia, 

(6) Raja Ram, (7) Abdul Halim, (8) Md, Ali Khan (case No, 48 of 

1956), (9) Canga Bishnu, 010) Asgar, (11) Md. Ayub, (12) Colam 

Hossain (case No. 57 of 1956), and (13) Shri Jagar Nath (case No. 8 

of 1956), represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, P.O. 

Bansberia, district Hooghly, against Empire Bone Mills, P.O. 
Bansberia, district Hooghly. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST 1۰+ 


PRESENT : 
Suri G. 4১, MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


A ppeatances : 
For the employees—Shri J. Pandey, Advocate. 
For the Company—Mr. S. D. Mauna, Bar.-at-Law. 


The orginal reference, out of which these cases have arisen, was made 
under Government order No. 4045Dis,/D/11L-58/55, dated 31st Auguat 
1907, The award of the Tribunal in respect of the original reference was 
made on 17th March 1956, and the award has since been published in the 
Calcutta Gazette. 

AWARD 


The present complaints purporting to be under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, were filed before this Tribunal by the 6ء‎ 
complainants on the allegation that while the original dispute was pending 
before this Tribunal, the opposite party—Empuire Bone Mille—in contraven- 
1100 of the provisions of section 38 of the Act dismissed them summarily 
with effect from 27th February 1956 without taking permission from the 


1732 THH CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Panr | 


Tribunal. The said order of dismissal hus been characterised as Uj WH. 
fied and illegal. It is alleged that the petitioners were victimised, simply 
because they happened to be members of the Empire Bone Mills Mazdoo; 
Union. So, reinstatement with back wages was claimed by the petitioners 


The opposite party denied that there was any contravention by the 
Company of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Tt stated that 
on 24th February 1956 at about 11-10 a.m. while the Company’s Manager 
Mr. H. N. Ray was going to his bungalow from the Mill Office, a crow, 
of over 30 workmen began throwing stones and brickbats and shoes at him 
and that the present petitioners were the persons who were in that crowd 
As a result of the above incident, the said Mannger decided to dismiss th, 
petitioners summaiily, and by lettets, dated 27th February 1956, he 
infcrmed the petitioners accordingly. 


These three cases were taken up together for hearing at the instance of 
the parties and also for the sake of convenience, as the-evidence in all the 
cases is the same. : 


Admittedly, the original dispute was pending before this Tribunal at 
the relevant time. Ext. A-series are the [লও issucd hy the Manager to 
the petitioners, and they are dated 27th February 1956. These letters وج‎ 
to show unmistakably that these petitioners were summerily dismissed from 
27th February 1956. As the original dispute was pending before this 
Tribunal at the time, the Company had no right to dismiss the petitioners 
in this fashion without the express permission of the Tribunal, because such 
dismissal constituted punishment. But obviously, no such permission of 
the Tribunal was taken before dismissing the petitioners. So, there can be 
no manner of doubt that section 33 of the Act was contravened. Mr 
Manna, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Company invited my 
attention to the fact that in those lettera (Ext. A-series), it is also atated 
at the end that pending decision from the Tribunal, the petitioners would 
remuin OE A Relying on this, Mr. Manna has argued before me that 
the petitioners were not actually dismissed, but they were kept under sus 
pension pending permission from the Tribunal, and that such suspension 
was made by way of security measure. I may say straightway, on و‎ 
perusal of the letters (Ext. A-series), that I am unable to agree with 
Mr. Manna on this point. The language used in those letters is that the 
petitioners were summarily dismissed from 27th February 1956. ہ1‎ the 
face of such clear and unequivocal expression, it cannot be held by any 
stretch of imagination that the petitioners were not actually dismissed, but 
were kept under suspension as a security measure pending derision from 
the Tribunal. In my view, the words “pending decision from the Tribunal 
you will remain suspended forthwith’’ as used in the aforesaid letters at 
the end, were put deliberately by the Manager with a view to avoid appli- 
cation of section 33 of the Act. It is not capable of any other explanation 
or interpretation. There can be no manner of doubt that what had _ heen 
done by the Management in these cases was virtually dismissal in the garb 
of suspension, avowedly to skip over the ban imposed under section 3 
The Tribunal, therefore, comes to the conclusion that there was clear co- 
travention of section 33 of the Act in the present three cases. So, the 
present applications under section 333A are competent. 


It is now well-settled that where section 33 has been contravened, the 
Tribunal must enquire into the merits of the discharge or disrmiasal on 4 
complaint being made under section 383A. As the complaint has to be 
investigated hy the Tribunal. as if it were a dispute referred to, or pending 
before it, the scope of investigation on the merits must be exaoily the ۸6 
where the subject-matter of the challenged discharge or dismissal had heen 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 6 1733‏ ا 


ss ST 
রা subject-matter of an independent Teference under section 10 of the 
act. The merits of the impugned dismissal are, therefore, to be considered 
hy the Tribunal. In these cases, unother fact emerges, which needs consi- 
deration also. The petitioners were summarily dismissed, and the Manage- 
ment before dismissing them did not give them any charge-sheet, or hold 
any enquiry. So, a grievance was made on behalf of the petitioners that 
they were wrongfully dismissed by the Management without any enquiry 
into the alleged charge made against them, which is against the principles 
of natural justice. 11 has been laid down in a series of cases that where 
‘he rule of natural justice is not followed, the Tribunal is to go into the 
merits and to critically examine the propriety of the Management’s order 
of 01151701450] or discharge. Though the principle of natuial justice does 
demand enquiry against a worker before disciplinary action is taken against 
him, such principle would reduce itself to a mere technicality, if the charge 
is (lear, and the facts constituting the charge are known to the worker, and 
do not admit of being explained away by him. The fact that no charge- 
sheet was delivered or no regular enquiry was held by the Management, 1৭ 
of no consequence in this case. Necessary evidence has been tendered before 
the Tribunal. JT may observe that the petitioners do not appear to have 
been prejudiced in any way for want of any charge-sheet or for not holding 
any regular enquiry against them, befare their dismissal. In view of what 
has been stated above, it becomes necessary for the Tribunal to enter into 
the merits of the dismisaul of the petitioners. The main charge, as could 
he gathered from the letters of dismissal sent to the petitioners on 27th Ieb- 
ruary 1956 (wide Ext. A-series) was that on 24th February 1956 at about 
11-10 am, in front of the main gate of the Mill, the present petititoners 
dlong wilh other workers threw brick-bats at the Manager, and abused him 
1 filthy languages. Such a charge against a worker, if established, 08 true, 
A indeed a grave misconduct, which might justify summary dismissal in the 
interests of discipline and smooth working of the Mill. But the question 
is whether the aforesaid charge is true, and has been substantiated hy the 
materials on record, One of the petitioners Shri Pashupati Ghosh (P.W. 1) 
nas deposed on behalf of the workers, and he has denied the charge levelled 
against them. He has deposed before Tribunal that they did not along 
with others threw brick-bats at the Manager on 24th February 1956 at 
about 11-10 a.m., while the Manager was going to his bungalow from the 
Mill Office, nor did they abuse him in filthy languages. On behalf of the 
Company, Mr. 11. N. Ray, Manager, Shri S. K. Mukherjee, Assistant 
Maintenanee Engineer, Shri Padam Bahadur, a darwan of the Mill. and 
Persia, a Coolie Sardar of the Mill, have been examined te prove the alleged 
incident. O.P.W. 1 Mr. H. N. Ray has spoken about the incident. He 
has deposed clearly and unequivocally that the present petitioners took 
part im that incident. He has further said that he saw the present peti- 
tioners amongst the persons, who were throwing brick-bais and shoes at 
lim. 116০ stated that he could identify these petitioners, as he knew them 
by name and face, Before this Tribunal. he also identified most of them. 
He xppears to be a respectable ond responsible person. He holds also 
foreign degrees. It cannot he believed for a moment that a man of his 
st tus and position would depose falsely, nor can it be conceived thai he 
would concoct a false story against these workers in order to 6 
them. TI had the opportunity of seeing this witness in box and hearing his 
evidence. T must say that I was impressed by his evidence. He deposed 
In a very straight-forward manner. In the circumstances, I hold that his 
evidence bears the stamp of truth. Accordingly, the Tribunal accepts his 
evidence regarding the incident that took place on 24th February 1956 at 
11-10 a.m. The Tribunal is convinced from his evidence that these workers 
along with others threw brick-bats and shoes at him and also abused him in 
filthy languages, while he was going to his bungalow from the Mill Office. 


1734 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Pant | 


: Dae ہچ‎ aay a ee برک کت ہے دہ‎ a cae ae ہے سے رہہ ہے کے ہہ کیہ مہہ ہے‎ ee rere 
This Manager is corroborated by his Assistant Mainienance Engineer, Si} 
S. K. Mukherjee, Shri Padam Bahadur, a darwan of the Mill, and 10০17 
a coolie sardur of the Mill. Their evidence, if considered as a whole 
points to the clear direction that these petitioners along with others were 
found throwing brick-hats and shoes on 24th February 1956 at 11-10 ৪.৮) 
at the Manager, while the latter was going to his bungallow from the 111] 
Office. The evidence of these witnesses cannot be lightly brushed aside oy 
thrown over-board, simply because they are still in the service of the Com. 
pany. That the present petitioners had some dissatisfaction and grulge 
against the Management before the incident, 1s evident from the 10100911813 
placed before the Tribunal by the Company. These petitioners got severa| 
charge-sheets from the Management shortly before the incident. Naturally 
they were seething with indignation. Accordingly, they were lovking out 
for an opportunity to take vengeance on the Manager, and they got such 
an opportunity on 24th February 1956 at about 11-10 a.m., while the 
Manager was going to his bungallow from the Mill Office. So, after giving 
my careful and anxious consideration to the entire evidence, facts and 
circumstances, T am of the view that the incident took place on 24th Feb. 
ruary 1956 at 11-10 a.m. while the Manager was going to his bungalow from 
the Mill Office, and precisely under the circumstances as alleged, and 11101 
the present petitioners took part in that incident. Hence, there can be no 
manner of doubt that these petitioners being the workers behaved in a dis- 
orderly manner, and their conduct was subversive of discipline. What they 
did clearly amounted to grave misconduct. So, the Tribunal feels no doubt 
or hesitation in saying that the action of the Management war justified, not. 
withstanding the absence of charge-sheet or proper enquiry into the matter. 
No Management can afford to tolerate such insubordination, insolence and 
vross nusconduct on the part of the workers. This sort of misconduct and 
insubordination undermines discipline, and the gravity of such action رر‎ 
not be under-rated. The view taken by the Management 11) dismis-ing 
these pelitioners, was a possible view on the materinis before it. The 
punishment was commensurate with the offence. So, no intereference with 
the decision of the Management is called for. The Tribunal, theretore, 
holds that these petitioners have heen rightly dismissed and none of thew 
is entitled to uny relief. Jt 1s also a salutary principle of law and equity 
that in case of grave misconduct, a worker could be summarily dismissed, 
particularly when such workers insult and try to assault a Manager in this 
fashion. In such cases, the Management would be amply justified ىا‎ 
forthwith dismissing such impertinent and insubordinate workers. ‘The 
Tribunal is unable to believe that that these workers were victimised, 
simply because they happened (9 be members of the Empire Bone Mills 

Mazdoor Union. 


The result is that the applications filed by these petitioners under section 
9348 are rejected. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
G. P. MOKHERJEE 
Judge. 


29-6-1956. 
G. P, MOKHERJEER, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 29th June 1956. 


By order of the (sovernor, 
N.C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


part 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1725 


کس سرن یس کٹ دہشت سے تھے سال تحت جج چس سس جس পিস‏ . 
ORDER‏ 


No. 3185Dis./D/11L-63/55.—20th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of Wost Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4045Dis. /D/ 
111-53 / 55, dated the dlst August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, Proprietors, Messrs. B. N. 
Elias & Co., Litd., Norton Buildings, 1 & 2 Old Court House Corner, Calcutta- 
] and their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, 
Bansberia, Hooghly, regardiug the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal ; 


And whereas during the pendency of ا سا‎ before the said Tribunal, 
complaint was filed before it against the said Company by Ganga Bishnu 
and three other employees of the said Company alleging that the said 
Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said employees the conditions of 
service applicable to them immediately before the commencement of the 
said proceedings ; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tmbunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 


to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 
ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
\ Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
| Act, 1950, filed by (1) Ganga Bishnu, (2) Aziz, (3) Asgar Ali and (4) 

Md, Ayub, workmen of Empire Bone Mills, Bansberia, Hooghly, 
represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, Bansberia, Hooghly, 
against Messrs. B. N. Elias and Co., Ltd., proprietor, Empire Bone Mills, 
Bansberia, Hooghly, in connection with an industrial dispute between 
Empire Bone Mills and their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mills 
Mazdoor Union, P.O. Bansberia, district Hooghly, referred under Cov- 
ernment order No, 4045Dis. /D /11L-53/55, dated 31st August 1955 (case 
No. 47 of 1956, under Section 338), 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suri .“ا‎ P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances: . 
For the employees: Shri Madan Mohan Saha, Advocate, with Shri D. N. 
Trivedi, Joint Secretary, Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union. 


for the Company: Shri §. Manna, Bar.-at-Law, with Mr. E. D. Ezra, 
Solicitor of Messrs. Victor Moses & Co., Solicitors. 


AWARD 


The present complaint under section 838A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, was filed by the above 4 workmen of Empire Bone Mills on the 
allegation that they were suspended for 4 days from 11th January 1956 by 
way of oo اہ‎ during the pendency of the aforesaid dispute before this 

nounal. Leave of the Tribunal was not taken, as provided under section 


1736 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr | 
eee 
33 of the Act. Accordingly, payment of full wages for those 4 days ٣ 
claimed.’ 


The Opposite Party denied having contravened the provisions of sectiyy 
33 of the Act. 

This day was fixed for hearing of the matter. But instead of proceediy 
with the case, the petitioners have filed an application to the effect tha} 
they have no claim or dispute against the Company for suspension referred 
to above. In the circumstances, they prayed for permission to withdraw 
the application filed under section 33A of the Act. 


Perused the petition and heard the learned representatives on both 81068. 
I accept the petition. 199৮6 as prayed for is given to the petitioners. The 
application is allowed to be withdrawn, and the case is disposed of 
accordingly. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
udge, 
23-6-56. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 23rd June 1956. 
ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAI, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


In the matter of an industrial dispute 
Between 
Messrs. Empire Bone Mills, Bans. 
beria Hooghly 
And 


Their workmen 
And 


In the matter of an application 
under section 984 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act. 

(1) Ganga Bishnu, 
(2) Asgar, 

(3) Md. Ayub, 

(4) Aziz, 

C/o Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, Bansberia, Hooghly. 
Humble petition of the applicants in 

the above matter 


MOST RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


1. That the above matter has been fixed for hearing today. 


2. That in the above matter, we have no claim and/or dispute against 
ا‎ Company for suspension from 1143 to 13th January 
1955. 


3. That the petitioners, therefore, crave your honours leave to with- 
draw the above application, 


part 1] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1946 1737 


In the circumstances aforesaid, it 1s prayed that your honour may gra- 
61091) be pleased to dispose of this matter as per terms of this application. 


And for this act of kindness, the petitioners shall ever pray. 


(1) (Ilegible). Filed by 

(2) (Tllegible). 1). N. TRIVEDI, 

(3) Aziz. Joint Secretary, 

(4) ٢.2.1. of Asgar Ali, Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, 
23-6-56. 


Dated 23rd June 1956. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 


The 23rd June, 1956. N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 38186Dis./D/111.-53/55.—20th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Govarnment of West Bengal, Lubour Department, order No. 4045Dis./D/ 
11L-§8/55, dated the 3lst August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messts. Empire Bone Mills, Bansheria, Hooghly, proprietors, Messrs. B. N. 
Elias & Co,, Ltd., Norton Buildings, 1 and 2 Old Court House Corner, 
Calcutta-1, and their workmen represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor 
Union, Bansberia, Hooghly, regarding the matters specified in the schedule 
thueto, was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint was filed before it against the said Company by 
Shri Sakaldip, a workman of the said Company, alleging that the said 
Company had discharged, the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adju- 
dicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 


Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
:ا‎ publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto, 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by Sakaldip, a worker of the Empire Bone Mills, 
88116106118, represented by Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union, P.O. 
Bansberia, district Hooghly, against Empire Bone Mills, P.O. Bansberia, 
district Hooghly. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


}’RESENT ; 
Sarr G. 8٦ MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industral Tribunal. 


1738 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY @, 1966 {Parr | 


Appearances: 
For the employee: Shri J. Pandey, Advocate. 


For the Company: Shri 10১, P. Ginwalla, Bar.-at-Law with Mr. E. D. Ezra, 
Solicitor of Messrs. Victor Moses, Solicitors. 


The original reference, out of which this case has arisen, was made under 
Government order No. 4045Dis./1)/11L-53/55, dated 915৮ August 1955 
The award of the Tribunal in respect of the original reference was made op 
17৮) March 1956, and the award has since been published in the Caleuttg 
0266০, 


AWARD 


The present complaint purporting to be under section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, was filed before this Tribunal by the above 
complainant on the allegation that while the original dispute was pending 
before this Tribunal, the opposite party—Empire Bone Mills—in contravep. 
tion of the provisions of section 33 of the Act dismissed him from service from 
10th March 1956 without taking permission from the Tribunal. The 8816 
order of dismissal has been characterised as unjustified and illegal. It is 
alleged that the petitioner was so victimised, simply because he happened to 
be a member of the Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union. So reinstatement 
with back wages was claimed by the petitioner. 


The opposite party denied that there was any contravention of section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. It stated that on 9th March 1956, 
at about 11-50 p.m. before the expiry of the second shift of the workers at 
the Empire Bone Mills, the petitioner wrongfully assaulted one Kedar 
Bhattacharjee, an employee of the Mills working in the Godown Department. 
The said assault was committed in presence of Mr. Nat Amroon, the 
Supervisor, who personally prevented the petitioner from committing further 
assault and further breach of discipline. For this misconduct on the part of 
the petitioner, a charge-sheet was issued to him on 10th March 1956, and on 
ط118‎ March 1956, the petitioner submitted his explanation, in which he 
admitted the assault. The petitioner was suspended on and from 10th March 
1956 pending enquiry. Thereafter, an enquiry was held on 12th March 1956 
by Mr. S. Mukherjee, an officer of the Company. (Qn enquiry, it was found 
and proved that the petitioner was guilty of wrongful assault. Consequently, 
the Management decided to dismiss the petitioner subject to the permission 
of the Tribunal heing obtained. 


The first question for consideration is whether there has been contraven- 
tion of section 33 by the Management. Admittedly, the original dispute 
was pending before this Tribunal at the relevant time. Annexure “‘C”’ of 
the written statement of the Company is the copy of the letter issued by 
the Manager to the present petitioner, and it is dated 13th March 1956. 
The petitioner has also filed a copy of this letter as Annexure to his applica 
tion. This letter goes to show clearly that the petitioner was dismissed 
from the service of the Company from 10th March 1956, as the charge against 
him for the incident, which is alleged to have taken place on 9th March 
1956, was duly proved as a result of the enquiry held on 12th March 1956. 
There can be no manner of doubt that such dismissal was a punishment. 
As the original dispute was pending before this Tribunal at the time, the 
Company had no right to dismiss the petitioner in this way without the 
express permission of the Tribunal. But obviously, no such permission of 
the Tribunal was taken before dismissing the petitioner. So, I am of the 
view that section 33 of the Act was contravened. Mr. Ginwalla, learned 


I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1739‏ ىیہ 


CS سوسحم‎ AR a A aa a 

vnnsel appearing on behalf of the Company, invited my attention to the 
‘ait that i the said letter it 1s also atated at the end that pending decision 
om the Tribunal, the petitioner would remain suspended. Relying on this, 
‘ir, Ginwalla has argued before me that the petitioner was not actually 
vigmissed, but he was kept under suspension pending permission from the 
Tribunal, and that such suspension was made by way of security measure. 
[ may say straightway that on a perusal of the letter with care, I om 
ماما‎ to agree with Mr. Ginwalla on this point. The language used in the 
aid letter is that the petitioner was dismissed from the service of the 
Nompany on and from 10th March 1956. In the face of such clear and 
inequivocal expression, it cannot be held by any stretch of imagination 
hat the petitioner was not actually dismissed, but was kept under suspension 
as n security measure pending decision from the Tribunal. In my view, the 
words ‘pending decision from the Tribunal you will remain suspended”’ as 
used in the aforesaid letter at the end, were deliberately put by the Manager 
و‎ order to avoid application of section 33 of the Act. It 1s not capable of 
any other explanation or interpretation. What Management did in this 
ease was nothing, but dismissal] in the garb of suspension, with a view to 
akip over the bar or ban imposed under section 33. The Tribunal, therefore, 
comes to the conclusion that there was clear contravention of section 33 of 
the Act in this case. So, the present application under section 33A 1s 
competent. 


It is now well settled that where section 33 has been contravened, the 
Tribunal must enquire into the merits of the discharge or dismissal on a 
complaint being made under section 094১. As the complaint has got to be 
investigated by the Tribunal, as if it were a dispute referred to or pending 
before it, the scope of investigation on the merits must be exactly the same, 
where the subject-matter of the challenged discharge or dismissal had been 
the subject-matter of an independent reference under section 10 of the Act. 
The merits of the impugned dismissal are, therefore, to be considered by the 
Tribunal. This necessarily leads the Tribunal to go into the merits and 
to critically examine the propriety of the Management’s order of dismissal 
or discharge of the petitioner. In this case, the principles of natural justice 
were not violated. A charge-sheet was delivered to the petitioner for the 
incident on 10th March 1956, and the petitioner was also given an oppor- 
tunity to explain his position. The petitioner did offer explanation. This 
will be evident from Ext. A. The petitioner has also admitted before this 
Tribunal that he got charge-sheet, and he submitted his explanation. From 
the explanation, 1t appears that the petitioner admitted that he assaulted 
Shri Kedar Bhattacharjee inside the Mill premises on 9th March 1956 at 
11-50 p.m. and that he also used his slipper on him. He wanted to say, 
however, that he abused and assaulted Shri Kedar Bhattacharjee in this 
way, simply because he lost his temper. It appears from the materials 
placed before this Tribunal that even after this explanation, a regular 
enquiry was held by the Management in presence of the petitioner, and 
that in that enquiry witnesses were examined. So, it cannot be said that 
in the present case there was any violation of the principles of natural 
justice. Before this Tribunal, the petitioner made a grievance that he was 
not allowed to examine his witnesses in the enquiry. But this cannot be 
believed, in view of what has transpired from the report of the Enquiring 
Officer (Ext. B) and also from his evidence. The report of the Enquiring 
Officer shows that Md. [88016 and Md. Rafique were examined on behalf 
of the petitioner Sakaldip. O.P.W. 2 Shri 9. K. Mukherjee is the Officer, 
who held that enquiry. He has deposed on oath that the petitioner 
Sakaldip examined two witnesses, who were Md. Isaque and Md. Rafique. 


1740 THY CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1966. [Parr] 


سے RT A ee rw‏ سس 


Tt is interesting to note in this connection that the petitioner himself he. 
stated before this Tribunal that he does not remember the names of person, 
whom he wanted to examine as his witnesses in the enquiry. This indicate 
that the version of the petitioner that he was not allowed to examune witni ہیں‎ 
in the enquiry, 1s not worthy of credit. J{ cannot be believed 601 a INOment 
that the Enquiring Officer, who is the Assistant Maintenance Enginee, 
would depose falsely and incorporate in his report something which did uo 
represent the actual state of things. 


Now I shall enter into the merits of the case. The charge against th, 
petitioner, as could be gathered, was that on 9th March 1956 at 11-50 p.m. 
he mishandled with the help of a slipper a worker, Shri Kedar Bhattacharjee 
inside the Mill. As stated already, the petitioner admitted the incident 
while giving his explanation to the charge-sheet on 11th March 1956. By 
before this Tribunal he had the temerity of saying that he did not assay 
Shri Kedar Bhattacharjee on 9th March 1956 at about 11-50 p.m. In viey 
of his unequivocal admission in his explanation, it is now idle and tutile 
for him to say before the Tribunal that he did not assault Shri Keda, 
Bhattacharjee on 9th March 1956 at about 11-50 p.m. Such denial ور‎ 
meaningless, and cannot be believed in view of his previous statement, and 
also in the face of the evidence adduced on behalf of the Company. (8 
appears that the charge-sheet against the petitioner for the incident of 00 
March 1956 was issued by Mr. Nat Amroon, who was at that time workin, 
as Overseer of the Kmpire Bone Mills at Bansberia. He was an eye-witness 
to the inrident. He has deposed before this Tribunal at O.P.W. 1, Ile 
has said that on 9th March 1956 while he was in the B shift from 3-0 p.m, 
to 12 o’clock midnight, he at about 11-50 p.m. heard a noise outside the 
office where he was at that time, and came out. He saw the petitioner and 
Shri Kedar Bhattacharjee, another employee engaged in struggle. This 
petitioner had his arm round the neck of Kedar, and in his right hand he 
had a slipper with which he was beating Kedar at random. Mr. Amroon 
has further stated that he at once proceeded to the spot, and succeeded m 
separating them. He hus deposed also that the incident took place in«de 
the Mill compound a few yards off from the office. The Tribunal 108 
considered the evidence of Mr. Nat Amroon. His evidence bears the stamp 
of truth. He deposed before the Tribunal in a straight-forward manner 
So, the Tribunal accepts his evidence in its entirety. That this petitioner 
assaulted Shri Kedar Bhattacharjee, another employee, inside the Mull 
during the working hours, is amply proved by the evidence of Mr. Amnoon 
and also from the other materials on record. The Tribunal is unable to 
hold that the petitioner has been falsely implicated or that the action of 
the Management was influenced by mala fides. The circumstances do not 
show that any attempt was made on the part of the Management to victimuse 
him fax his being a member of the Empire Bone Mills Mazdoor Union 50, 
the petitioner was found nightly guilty of misconduct by the Management, 
because his conduct was subversive of discipline. What he did, clearly 
amounted to misconduct. So, the Tribunal feels no doubt or hesitation im 
saying that the action of the Management was justified. No Management 
can afford to tolerate such gross misconduct on the part of a worker inside 
the Mill during working hours. An employer is certainly concerned with 
the peace and good order in the factory or Mill, and any act on the part of 
the worker having tendency or effect to disturb peace and good order should 
be regarded as subversive of discipline. The act complained ot had 
undoubtedly material bearing on the smooth and efficient working of the 
concern, and had a direct connection with the contentment or ء۷٥‎ 
the men at work. That being so, the Tribunal feels no hesitation in holding 


part I] THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1741 


aca 
ft the Management was perfectly justified in dismissing the petitioner. 
Jo, 0 interference with the decision of the Management is called for. 
Hence, the petitioner is not entitled to any relief. 


The result is that the present application under section 338A is rejected. 


Mictated and corrected by me, 


(0. P. MUKHERJEE, (3. ১, MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


The 4th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No, 8194Dis./1)/101.-56/56.—21st July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Iepartment order No. 4411 کی‎ 
123/56, dated the 3lat January 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Babeock & Wilcox of India, 110.) 4 Bankshall Street, Calcutta-1, 
and their employees represented by Babcock & Wilcox Employees’ Union, 
934 Netaji Subhas Road (Top Floor), Calcutta-l1, regarding the matters 
spevified in the schedule thereto wag referred for adjudication to the Second 
Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has subinitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
tv publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Babcock 
& Wilcox of India, Ltd., 4 Bankshall Street, Calcutta-1, and their 
employees represented by Babcock & Wilcox Employees’ Union, 238 
Netaji Subhas Road (Top Floor), Caicutta-1. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAT, 
PRESENT: 
গানে G. ۶, MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : 


For the employees: Shri Ywijendra Ta) Sen Gupta, Advocate. 

For the Company: Shri J. N. Chatterjee, Labour Adviser, Tndian Engi- 
neering Association. 
By Government order No. 4241is./D/100-123/55, dated 919 January 


1956, the aforesaid dispute was referred to this Tribunal for adjudication 
regarding the matters mentioned in the schedule. 


1742 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 [Parr | 
সহ 


The issues contained in the schedule to the Order of Reference stand a 
follows :— 


(1) Grades and scales of pay. 


(2) Whether the existing privilege leave facilities are adequate. وا[‎ 
what extent these should be modified? How far this leave should 
be allowed to be wecumulated P 


(3) Gratuity. 
(4) Tiffin allowance. 
(9) Medical 8 


AWARD 


Babcock & Wilcox of India, 160. (hereinafter called the Company), is و‎ 
Private Limited Company, which was registered in India on July Ist, 47 
Prior to that, the business was carried on in India by a Branch Office of 
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, London, from 1906. It does no manutacturing, 
It imports boilers, economisers, stukers, superheaters, coal conveyors, cranes, 
etc., and also spare parta of those articles, It erects also new boilers, and 
repairs and dismantles old boilers, and also dismantles chimneys, and 
paints and re-paints new and old chimueys. This Compan ہی‎ কা about 
60 clerks at its office at 4 Bankshall Street, Caleutta, and 7 clerks at its 
godown at Hide Road to do 011০6 work of the Company. 


Babcock & Wilcox Employees’ Union (hereinafter called the Union) 
submitted a charter of demands on 16th September 1955 for framing fair 
scale of pay for different categories of staft with provisions of adjustments 
and increments, for introduction of. tiffin allowance, medital facilities, 
gratuity, ete..und also for improvement of the terms of leave. Attempts ot 
conciliation were made through the Labour Directorate, but nothing could 
be achieved due to adamant attitude of the Company. At last, the dispute 
was referred to the Tribunal for udjudication by the (government. According 
to the Union, there are no fixed scales and grades of pay for the clerical staff 
in this Company, The Company grants only 14 days’ privilege leave with 
full pay in a year, but no accumulation of the same is allowed. The 
retiral benefit available in the Company is also inadequate, there being a 
Provident Fund with 74 per cent. contribution on total wages since 1956, 
which was 74 per cent. on the basic pay in the period from 1948 to 1954, and 
5 per cent. of the basic pay up to 1947. The Provident Fund was only 
introduced in the year 1934, and before this, there was only a Pension 
Scheme in which 5 per cent. of the worker’s basic pay was deponited from 
their monthly pay. There is no system of gratuity in the Company, The 
Company does not grant any tiffin allowance, and the tiffin allowed consists 
only of 2 cups of tea and 2 pieces of biscuits in a day, and the employees 
have got to take their tea standing, as there is no tiffin room. No medical 
facilities are also given to the emplovees or their dependants. Accordingly, 
the Wnion has claimed scales of pay as follows: — 


Special Grade—above Rs. 350 per month. 
A Grade—Rs. 180—156—270—20—50. 
B Grade—Rs. 100—10—180. 


Qne month’s privilege leave with full wages in a year accumulative for 
3 years was 18180 demanded. The Union has further claimed one month's 
pay as gratuity for each year of service in the Company in all cases of 


part 1] THR CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1743 


ann 

tirement excepting cases of dismissal involving pecuniary losses to the 
Company. Re. 1 per head per working day as tiffin allowance haa also 
مم‎ claimed. As regards medical facilities, the Union’s demand 18 that 
the employees and their dependants should be allowed free medical advice, 
free medicine, etc., and free medica] diet, all expenses in hospitals, if 
jecessary, Or in the alternative one month's wages in a year as medical 
allowance. 


The Compuny says that there are no fixed scales and gradeg of pay in 
the Company, but the remunerations paid to the employees are reviewed 
each year, and increments are given to deserving cases in consideration of 
‘heir merits and efficiency. Dearneys allowance is paid to the employees by 
the Company on Bengal Chamber of Commerce scale, The Company further 
states that 14 days’ privilege leave per year with full pay 18 allowed to all 
permanent staff. Regarding gratuity, the Company submits that the existing 
16119] benefit by nay of Provident Fund is adequate, and that in view of the 
cxisting benefits and the Company’s financial position, the Company is not 
in a position to undertake any other long-term commitments by way of 
gratuity. Regarding tiffin allowance, the Compuny’s version 18 that it has 
no available space in the office buildings, where arrangement for service of 
ten that is allowed to the employees, can be made. The Company supplies 
tea in the morning, and tea with biscuits in the afternoon on every working 
day free of charge at the desks of the employees. The Company has no 
arrangements for medical aid for the clerical staff. Only European officers 
ure allowed free medical attention, because such medical attention is a 
condition Of their service being recruited from United Kingdom. Finally, 
the Company has contended that the terms and conditions of service of the 
Company are fair and reasonable, and compare favourably with other 
conterns, The demands of the Union has been characterised as extravagant 
nnd unjustified. It also pleaded that in view of its present financial posi- 
tion, which is unsatisfactory and unstable, and having regard to the 
uncertainty of its business, the Company is not in a position to meet these 
fantastic and extravagant demands put forward by the Union. 


At the very outset, I want to dispose of a point. The Company in its 
written statement has stated that the clerks employed in their pr, a at 
Hide Road are not concerned with the present reference under adjudication. 
But accordingly to the Union, the clerks employed at Hide Road are also 
covered by the present reference. In my opinion, the present reference 
applies to all clerks—both at the Head Office at 4 Bankshall Street, Calcutta, 
and at the godown at Hide Road, Calcutta. It may be stated in this con- 
nection that the learned representative appearing on behalf of ths Company 
hay fairly conceded at the time of hearing that the 7 clerks employed at 
the Hide Road establishment of the Company are also covered by this 
order of reference. 


Issue NO. 1.—Grades and scales : pay.—The Company has no 80199 
or grades of pay for the clerical staff, but it allows increments to individual 
employees at its discretion. From the charts filed by both the parties, it 
appears that increments are given to the employees by the Company. The 
Union demanded introduction of grades and pay-scales with provisions for 
automatic annual increments. The Company 2 opposed such introduction 
of scales and grades of pay for its employees at present mainly on two 
grounds. Firstly, it is contended by the Company thot the salary, that is 
heing paid to all the employees is quite decent and handsome, and that 


1744 THH CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 {Paur | 


increments are also given each year to the deserving employees in سس‎ 
ration of their merits and efficiency. In addition to their pay and salary‘ 
they are getting dearness allowance according to the Bengal Chamber of 
Commerce scule, which is a generous and lavish one, The second ground 
put forward on behalt of the Company is that, regard being had to its 
nature of business, and in view of is financial position which has been 
gradually deteriorating year by year, it waa not in a position to introduce 
grades und scales of pay for the present. Both parties have filed chartg. 
In the chart filed by the Union, the dearness allowance that each employee 
gets is not mentioned. But in the chart filed by the Company, basic salary 
and dearness allowance are shown separately. In that chart also, the total 
emoluments that each employee gets has also been shown. On a perusal 
of the charts, it 18 manifestly clear that the total emoluments of each 
employee are reasonable and adequate. It further appears from those 
charts that increments from time to time are given by the Company to itg 
employees. The minimum total emoluments of an employee are not below 
Rs. 172-3. This cannot by any means be said to be inadequate or low ag to 
justify any increase, regard being had to the length of service. The total] 
emoluments paid to the employees of this Company are indeed decent and 
handsome, and compare favourably with similar concerns in the locality. 
The Company has produced balance-sheets for the years from 1951 to 1955 
(Ext. B-series). It appears from these balance-sheets that the financial 
position of the Company has been gradually deteriorating year by year, 
The net profit in the year 196] was Rs. 2,08,325, but it came down to 
Rs. 2,056,578 in 1962. In 1953, it reached Rs. 1,64,489 and in 1954 it stood 
at Rs. 1,59,867. But in the year 1955, the net profit came down to a 
considerable extent, and it was Rs. 22,248 only. Those net profits were 
excluding the taxes paid hy the Company for those years. From the 
evidence of Mr. K. J. Holt (O. P. W. 1), who is Assistant Secretary of the 
Company we get the taxes paid hy the Company in the years from 1951 to 
1954, which are as followa:— 


Year. Taxes paid. 
Rs. 
1961 1 aa ... 1,238,978 
1952 - রী .ےم‎ 8,694 
1953 ve a w. 69,537 
1964 7 er .. 63,186 


No tax has yet been assessed for the year 1955, but the fact remains that 
in the year 1955, there has been abnormal fall in the net profits of the 
Company. The balance-sheets produced are audited by Messrs. Tovelock 
& Lewes, Chartered Accountants, a reputed firm. Though some comments 
were made by the learned representative on behalf of the Union on these 
balance-sheets, I must say that he could not show me anything tangible, 
as a result of which these balance-sheets could be deemed to be incorrect. 
So, regard being had to the financial position of the Company, which has 
been gradually deteriorating, I am ot the view that this is not an opportune 
time for introduction of grades and scales of pay for the employees. In the 
case of Messrs. Union Drug Company, Ltd. versus their workmen reported 
in 1953 ہا‎ A. C. 714, it has 22 held by their Lordships ‘‘Before incremental 
scales can be imposed by adjudication, it is essential to see whether the 
employer would be able to bear its burden. The financial condition of the 
Company must be such as to Jead to the condition that it would be able to 
pay increments year by year for an appreciable number of years, for wage 


1745 


19 not propose to introduce grades and pay-seales at the present time, 
the employees would do well to co-operate with the Company for some 
me more, With a view to improve its condition and to renew their claims 
hereatter. Another reason, which makes me unable to concede to the 
‘nron’s demand for introduction of grades and pay-scales at the present 
me, 18 that the total emoluments, which are being paid to the clerks, do 
10 at any rate fall short ot the minimum, The total emoluments of the 
lerka of this Company are not only fair and adequate, but are substantially 
par with the prevailing rates and consistent with the concept of fair 
minimum کا‎ I am mindful of the fact that in the Mercantile Tribunal 
(ward and also in the Bengal Chamber of Commerce scheme, grades and 
08199 of pay for the clerical staff were introduced. But it must be remem- 
ered that the award of the Mercantile Tribunal or the scheme of Bengal 
‘hamber of Commerce in 81] respects related to big firms, and was unsui- 
able for a concern like the present one, which does no manufacturing, but 
mports 011] certain goods from abroad, The nature of its business 7৪ also 
yeculiar, and on account of competition there is also risk for this Company 
oosing much of ita business. learned representative appearing on behalf of 
the Union has argued much on the question of balanced diet, in order to 
yonvince the Tribunal that in this concern the total emoluments for the 
lowest paid employees consisting of their busic wages and deurness allowance, 
dhat is their pay packet, were inadequate and unfair. But TI must say that 
] was not impressed in this respect by his argument. He could not convince 
me that the total emoluments be the lowest paid workmen in this Company 
jn any case fell below the minimum, and compared unfavourably with the 
wage rates paid to other employees in other industries. After all, the 
elementary requirements of an employee are the same, whether he is work- 
ing in the Jute or an Isngineering Industry. The Union has failed also to 
establish that the majority of the employees are rotting. From the charts 
filed, it appears that many of the employees are getting increments and 
decent salary within a reasonable period of time. In al] literatures on the 
subject of balanced and satisfactory diet, the authorities tried to lay down 
certain principles only, which they considered to be ideal or satisfactory 
for a certain class of people. The primary difficulty about the realisation 
of that ideal is that there igs no enough such protective foods available for 
all of us, nor they are within the competence of al] to have them. The 
truth about it is that there is no enough such food to go round for every 
body in the country. Another contention urged by the learned represen- 
tative appearing on behalf of the Union is that the cost of living has gone 
up, Rise in the averaye cost of living index, eVen if it be accepted to be 
a0, does not justify any increment in the scale of pay or any fixation of scale 
and grades of pay. A rise in the cost of living index prima facie supports 
a case for revision of dearness allowance, But in the present case, the 
dearnesa allowance which is given to the employees, is indeed very generous 
and lavish, aa auch allowance is given according to the Bengal Chamber 
of Commerce Scheme. So, considering the matter in all its bearings, I 
do not find my way to introduce grades and scales of pay for the clerical 
staff of the Company at present. This issue is decided accordingly. 


Issue No. 2.—Whether the eaisting privilege leave facilities are ade- 
quate. To what extent these should be modified? How far this leave should 
Le allowed to be aceumulated?—This Company at present grants 14 days’ 


1746 TH CAL. GAZ, WXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 {Pari J 
سا سس کی‎ লুল) লীলা লালা শিপ 
privilege leave with 1011 pay in a year to the permanent clerical statl syn 
no accumulation of this leave is generally allowed. But the demand of the 
Union is that there should be one ae privilege leave with full wages 
In a year cumulative for three years, After giving my anxious and carety| 
consideration to the matter, I am of the view that the privilege leave, ay 
allowed at present by the Company, 1s inadequate, and 14 needs modification, 
ا‎ think, 1t will be tair if 21 days’ privilege leave with full pay in a year 
is rranted to each clerk cumulative up to 42 days. It 1s accordingly awarded. 
‘Lhis issue 1s decided thus. 


Issue No, 3.—Gretuty.—The Union has demanded one month’s pay as 


gratuity tor each year of service in, the Company. This is resisted by the 
(Gmpuny on the tollowing grounds :— 


(a) That the Company has a Provident Fund scheme in operation, which 
ig considered to be fair and adequate as the ratiral benefit; 


(b) that the double retiral benefits by way of both Provident Fund 
and graduity, are not prevalent in a Commercial Establishment 
of similar nature; and 


(c) that gratuity, being a long-term commitment, the Company's 
financial position and the uncertainty of its business do not allow 
it to undertake any such long-term commitment. 


I quite agree that pratuity is a long-term commitment. It is not correct 
that double retiral benefits by way of both Provident Fund and gratuity are 
uot prevalent in Commercial Estublishments. There are lots of decisions, 
where such double retiral benefits were given by the Tribunals. But the 
question 18 whether any scheme or provision for gratuity in this Company 
should be -made tor the clerical staft. Admittedly, there is Provident Fund 
scheme for the clerical staff in this Company. The current rate of contri- 
bution to the Provident Fund 1s 71 per cent. on basic pay and dearneas 
allowance on either side. This rate of contribution was started from Ist 
January 1956. Prior to that, the contribution was at the rate of 74 per cent 
on the basic pay only on either side, and it continued from Ist January 1948 
Before that, the rate of contribution to the Provident Fund wag 5 per cent. 
on either side on the basic pay, and this scheme continued from January 
1934 to 3lst December 1947. Prior to 1933, there was no scheme for 
Provident Fund in this Company, but there was a Pension Scheme known as 
‘Babcock Staft Pension Fund’’, in which both the employees and_ the 
employer contributed. But with the introduction of the Provident Fund 
scheme, the contributions made by the employer and the employees under 
the Pension scheme, were transferred to the scheme of Provident Fund 
including“interest. Thus, it is evident that the Provident Fund scheme was 
only introduced in this Company from January 1934, and in the Pension 
scheme that was introduced in 1929, only 5 per cent. of the workmen’s 
basic pay was deposited by deducting from their monthly pay. Naturally, 
the clerks who have rendered long service in this Company and who will 
have to retire soon, will not be much benefited by the amount available to 
them under the Provident Fund scheme. The clerks, who joined this 
Company after 1934, will get benefits of the Provident Fund scheme that 
was introduced in the year 1934. They will no doubt get sufficient money 
from their Provident Fund to fall back upon in their old age on retirement, 
hut such will not be the case with the clerks, who joined this Company 
before 1954. Accordingly, I direcct that only the members of the clerical 
staff, who joined the Company’s service prior to the introduction of the 


p xt 1[ THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 24, 1956 1747 
55455555554 
1%,810616 Fund, shall be পা benefit of gratuity at the rate of 15 days’ 
hasic wages for each completed year of service, subject to a maximum of 
10 months’ wages between the period of their joining and the date, when the 
Provident Fund scheme was introduced. Such gratuity would not be 
payable to them for the period after the introduction of the Provident Fuud 
scheme. So to be precise, ۱1 provide gratuity of those employees for the 
uncovered period only, This benefit 01 gratuity will not extend to other 
clerical staif, as the retiral benefit by way of Provident Fund scheme, which 
ig in operation in this Company, is considered to be fair and adequate for 
them. I hope, the Company will not grudge to pay, in spite of its present 
jnuncial position, such gratuity as directed ubove to the clerical staff, whose 
number perhaps will be very small. This issue is answered accordingly. 


issue NO. 4.—/2fin allowance.—The Union claims Re. 1 per head per 
working day as tiffin allowance for the clerical staff. It is resisted by the 
Company. It is contended that the tiffin allowance is not a condition of 
service, and that the tiffin allowance is a mere concession, for which there 
cannot be ahy compulsion. At present, the Company does not grant any 
tifin allowance, but 2 cups of tea nnd 2 pieces of eae in a day are 
served free of cost to the clerical staff on every working day at their deaks, 
in the absence of any space for tiffin room in the office buildings. In my 
view, the existing arrangement for tiffin will continue. J do not think that 
the Company should be asked to pay any tiffin allowance to the clerical 
8101. The Tribunal interferes in the matter of tiffin in two cases, viz., ۷ 
if the ouncern is located at a place where tiffin cannot be had or procurec 
and (11) where the salary of the staff is such as it does not permit them to 
spend for tiffin, But in the present case, both the elements are absent. The 
08100 of the Company is located near about Dulhousie Square, where there 
are 8) any restaurants and tea stalls. The sulary paid to the clerical staff 
is not such as cannot permit them buying their tiffin out of it. Accordingly, 
the claim of the Union on this score is turned down. 


Issue No. 5.—Afedical facilities.—Admittedly, the Company has no 
arrangements for medical aid to the clerical staff. The demand of the Union 
18 that the employees and their dependants should be allowed free medical aid, 
free medicine and free medical diet, or in the alternative, one mouth’s wages 
in the year ag medical allowance. In my view, the demand of the Union 
appears to be rather unreasonable. 1 have given my due consideration to 
this matter. The employees must share with the 0 equally in enjoying 
medical benefits. The employer may rightly refuse to contribute for the 
special advantage, unless it be proved that the income of the employee 
is less than the national income per capita. It is, therefore, against the 
principles of social justice that the persons entering any Company, shall 
get any preferential treatment. In the present case, the income of the 
employees ia not less than the national income per camta. It is evident 
that the employees get decent and handsome emoluments from the Com- 
pany. That being so, they like other citizens of the State, can spend money 
out of their ھ0‎ for their own ‘medical treatment and also for the 
treatment of their family and dependants. In my view arrangement for 
free medical treatment is a» matter for the State, and no individual employer 
can be compelled to undertake this. The State may take contributions from 
the individual employer. Furthermore, the Employees’ State Insurance 
Scheme is very soon goins to cover the clerical staff of this Company in such 
matters, So, 1 refrain from giving any direction to the Company regarding 
medical facilities. This issue is disposed of thus. 


1748 THM CAL. GAZ. EXTRY.,. JULY 24, 1966 [Pay 1 


সস স্পা 


This is the award of the Tribunal. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKIVERJEE, Judge. 
“~~  98.6-56. 
GU. P. MUKHERIEK, 


۱ Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 28th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Seip 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal 
at West Kengal Government Press, Alipore on the 24th July 1956, 


pegistered No. 7 No. 56011) 


0)0 8 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


"WEDNESDAY, JULY 95, 1956 
ey Ce موا‎ 
PART I-Orders and Notifications by the Governor ot Wert 
Mengal, the 12180 Court, Government Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTICE 
Birbhum.—No. 130841,.A.(P.W.).—25th July 


۱9۸0-۷ ۱۵ع‎ 22.02 acres, more or Jess, of land 
‘Situated in or near the villages of Belhari and 
mother, described below, have been requisitioned 
under Pib-section (1) 01 section 8 of the West 
Benggl#fund (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
1948, by the person authorised under the said sec- 
tion 901) for the purpose of providing facilities for 
irrigation and drainage, namely, for construction 
of Barrage across the river Kopai in connection 
with the Mayurakshi Reservoir Project: 


1749 


1750 THR 0۸1017774 GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [৯৬] 
JULY 25, 1956 
পপ সস 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the suid Act, the 
(Jovernor acquires. such land being required for و‎ 
public purpose as aforesaid. 

This notice, is given under the provisions of ath. 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acqyisition) Act, 1948 (West: 
Bengal Act IT of 1948), to all whom it 171) 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special and Acquisition Collector, 

Birbhum.‏ ۔. 
Description of the land‏ 
Mauza Belhari, jurisdiction list No. 229, polices.‏ 
station Dubrajpur.‏ 


Cadastral survey plots in full—76, 349, 2], 
353, 365, 358, 349, 360, 361, 32, 366, 
$67, 3870, 8۲1, 372, 373, 9374, 397, 399, 
400, 401, 402, 403, 404, 405, 406, 407, 
408, 3898 and 489. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—75, 389 and 409. 
Mauza Kanchannagore, jurisdiction list No. 234, 
police-station Dubrajpur. 

Cadastral survey plots in full—201 and 200. 


By order of the Govgrnor, 
P. M. DATTA; 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West BDAgal. 


a ‌ ومہمسمہے کسججچومم‫سجمسسم"کوُجویممسیپیو‫ججووجہٗ‎ 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. ৮৮2১ Woes 
Bengal, at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 25th July 1956. 


Resistered No. C207 


0 


No. 361(1) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 1956 


শপ ces سے مہ سی سط‎ Fw ree 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NUTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 13072L.A.—25th July 1956.— 
Whereas it uppears to the Governor that Jand is 
likely to be necded for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Bave 
Nos. 184) 19A and 204 of Burdwan-Belmuri sec- 
tion 182 K. V. ‘Transmission Line, in connection 
with the promotion and operation of schemes for 
generation, trunsmission and distribution of 
electric energy in the village of Kantia, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 95, thaua Burdwan, district Burdwan, 
1818 hereby notified that pieces of land comprisin 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 16, 302 anc 
1025, and altogether measuring, more or 1988, 
618 of an acre, are likely to be needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
Village of Kantia: 


This notification is made, under the provisions 


of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan 01 the land may be inspected in the office 
ofthe Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
814 section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
188 officers for the time being engaged in the 
80৩01811117, with their servants and workmen, to 
پان‎ upon and gurvey the land and do all other 
809 required or ee by that section. 


h exercise of the Ypowers conferred by sec- 


tion 17/4) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, . 


qf amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the 
of ror is pleased to direct that the provisions 
case on 5A, of the Act shall not apply to thig 


wriftwan.—No, 130761.A.—26th July 1956.— 


রি, ا1‎ appears to the Governor that land is 
৪ ৫5 09 be needed for a public purpose, not being 
0 of the Union, namely, for Tower Buse 
tion eee 224 and 23A of Burdwan-Belmuri sec- 
i i K. V. Transmission Line, in connection 
vener 1 Promotion and operation of achemes for 
ner ৪0010) transmission and distribution of electric 
tion 1 In the village of Syamsundarpur, jurisdic- 
lst No, 94, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, 


17061 


it is hereby notified that pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadustral survey plot Nos. 6, 11, 651, 298 
und 405, and altogether measuring, more or less, 
.0618 of an acre, are likely to be needed for the 
aforesuid public purpose at the expense of the 
JJamodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
village of Syamsundarpur ; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the atore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased {o authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


ln exercise of the powers conferred by ৪৪০- 
tion 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 
us amended by Act XXXVIII of 1928, the 
Giovernor is pleased to direct that the provisions 
of section 04 of the Act shall not apply to this 
0886, 


Burdwan.—No,. 13080L.A.—2oth July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that lund is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos, 253A, 254A and 255A of Kalipahari-Burd wan 
section 132 K. V. Transmission Line, in connection 
with the promotion and operation of schemes for 
the generation, transmission and distribution of 
electric energy in the village of Rampur, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 80, thana (58181) district Burdwan, it 
is hereby notified that pieces of land compris 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 2266, 2297 ا‎ 
2405, and altogether measuring, more or less, 
.0618 of an acre, are likely to be needed for the 
uforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
village of Rumpur; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Pies: Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


1752 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 25, 1956 


سبفسمی سے صدیپے تم( 


+0 ۲ 


In exercise of thé powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the otficers for {he tinft being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts requiled or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by ৪০৪০- 
tion 17(4) of the Lund Acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, 
as amended by Act AXXVIIT of 1923, the 
Governor is pleased to direct that the provisions 
of section 5A of the Act shall not apply to this 
case. 


Burdwan.—No. 131100.A.—25th July 1956.— 
Whereas if appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed tor a public purpose, not being 

a purpose of the Union, numely, tor Tower Base 
Nos. a1, 2A, 438A and 44A of Burdwan-Belmuri 
section TJ2 K.V. Transmission line in connection 
with the promotion and operation of schemes 07 
generation, transmission and distribution of elec- 
tric energy 1m the village of Putunda, jurisdiction 
list No. 154, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, 
it is hereby notified that pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadastial survey plot Nos. 1357, 1359, 
1699, 1906, 1905, 2097 and 2120 and altogether 
measuring, more or less, .0985 of an ucre, ure 
likely to be needed for the aforesaid publie- pur- 
pose at the expense of the Damodar Valley Uor- 
poration within the atoresaid villuge of Putunda. 


This notification 1s made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act 1 of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Speeil 11১4 ا‎ Chea Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


~~ da exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
sail section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
€amended by Act XXXVITI of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that ihe provisions of section 
64 of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


DECLARATION 


Burdwan.—No. 13086L.A.—25th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the uequisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Governmént by notification No, 20/1/55- 
Judi), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Munistry of Home 
Affairs ander clause (1) of article 268 of the Con- 
stitution of India; 


[Parr 1 


_ And* wherens fhe Gévernor is satisfied that 
land is needed for ‘a publie purpose, being a pur- 
pose of the Union, namely, torethe Township in 
connection with the Durgapur Steel Project in 
the village of Bhiringi, jurisdiction list No. 68, 
thana Faridpur, pargano Shergarh, district Burd- 
wan, it is hereby declared that two pieces of land 
in Block “C”’ comprising cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 1486 and 1487 and paris of cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 1484, 1485 and 1488, and meaMuring, 
more or less, 16.49 acres, are needed for the afore- 
suid public টি at the public expense within 
the aforesaid village of Bhiringi. * 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Laud Acquisition At, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be uspected in the 0109 
of the Special Land Acquisition Odicer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


By order of the Governor, 
1১, M. DATTA, 
Dy, Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


(০১ 


Land Development 
NOTIFICATION 
24-Parganas. — No. 129841. Dev. — 24th July 
1956.—-I[n exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 8 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XX] 
of 1948), read with sub-section (1) of secton 48 
of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act ] of 1894), 
the Governor is pleased to withdraw from the 
acquisition of 12.74 acres of 1800 comprising 
দি survey plot Nos. 287, 289 to 310, 963, 
364, 366 to 372, ৩79 to 384, 630, 632 to GAT, 041 
to 645, 1119 and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 288, 314, 315, 361, 462, 365, 644 and 1092 
of village Ukhilapaikpara, police-station Sonar- 
pur, district 24-Parganas, out of the total area of 
126.55 acres of Jand of village Ukhilapaikpara 
which was included in the জানে ডা No. الال‎ 
[.1)65,)১ dated the 25th April 1950, under section 
6 read with section 7 of the West Bengal Land 
Development and Planning Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at page 648, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 27th 
April 1950, in respect of acquisition of land 1 
the villages of Kumarkhali and Ukhilapaikpara, 
jurisdiction list Nos. 48 and 56, respectively, 11 
gaua Medamalla, police-station Sonarpur, #strict 
24-Parganas, for the settlement of immigrants 
who have migrated into the State 01 West Benga 
on account of circumstances beyond their control 
und for the creation ot better living condition,. 


By order of the (rovernor, 
.ط‎ Mi DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal: 


i 


eae A cE PE SS 0 SAPP a i SES PS IE IEF TIT I STS 
Prigted and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 25th July 1956, 


Registered No. G207 


Calritta 


Published by Authority 


No. 30 of 1956 


THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1956 


The undermentioned Extraordinary issues of the “Calcutta Gazette” were published 


Issue No. 


83817۳ 


88908) 


34001) 


341(I) 


8820) 


84300) 


540) 


845 (1) 


34808) 


84700) 


Order /Notification /Declara- 
tion No. and date. 


No. 11996L.A. and 2 others, 
dated the 10th July 1956. 


No. 8.7.0. 1519, dated the 
22nd June 1956. 


No. 6979F.8., dated the 10th 
July 1956. 


No. 5297P./14R-10/51, dated 
the llth July 1956. 


No. 2778Dis./D/15I.-14/55, 
dated the 28rd June 1956 ; 
No.2790Dis./D/10L-100/56, 
dated the 25th June 1056; 
and No. 2842Dis./D/10L- 
26/55, and 2 others, dated 
the 29th June 1956. 


No. 12152L.A. and 3 others, 
dated the 12thJuly 1956. 


No. 7140F.8., dated the 13th 
July 1956. 


No. 1230541,A., dated the 
18th July 6۰ 


No. 20/8/56Pub/I, dated the 
12th June 1956, 


Ne. 12476L.A., dated.the 14th 
July 8۰ 


up to 14th July 1956 
Department, Subject. 
Land and Land Revenue ডি Acquisition of land in Burdwan 


Ministry of Information 
Broadoasting, 


Food, Relief and Supplies 


Home (Political) ے‎ 


Labour - 


Land and Land Revenue 


Food, Relief and Supplies 


Land and Land Revenue 


Ministry of Hame Affairs 


Land and Mead Buvenue 


and 


district. 


The Registration of News Cen- 
tral) Rules, 1956. 0 


2a 


Republishing the Cement 

rder, 1956, aa originally published 

by the Government of ia in the 

Gazette of India, Hxtraordinary, 
dated the 26th June 1956. 


Control 


Appointing Shri D. N. Chaklade, 
District Judge, Jalpaiguri, as an 
Arbitrator for the determination ard 
awarding of the amount of compen- 
sation for requisitioned land, des- 
cribed therein. ‘ 


Awards in respect ofindustrial disputes 
between Messre. Lakshmi Oil Mi 
and their workmen ; Messrs. Dhur 
Tin Factory and Shri Jhagru 
Jeswara ; Mesars. G.T. R. 00, Ltd. 
and Shri Raghunath Prasad and 
another; Empire Bone Mills and 
Shri Asraf Ali; and Messrs. Khem- 
jee Hunsraj and Shri Nar Bahadur. 


Acquisition of land in Burdwan dis- 
trict. 


Fixing the price of soft coke, desckibeg 
therein. 3 


Withdrawing from apquisition of land 
declared for acquisition in Bur- 
dwan district. 


Declaring Monday, tho 23rd July 1956, 
as a public holiday under Act ٦ 
of 1881 in commemoration of the 
و‎ পর annive of the 

birthday of Shri ar 

Tilak. 


٦ 


Acquisition of land (920 840, district 


Pages. 


1617-1618 


1610-1628 


1629-1632 


1633-1634 


1635-1654(o) 


1655-1656 


1657-1658 


1659-1660 


1661 


1663-1684 


» Governt 
:اھ‎ ++ 2 
8 


A.—Ordinances promulgated by the | ee Ns 7ھ(‎ i 
۳٣ ‘India, র্‌ 4৮ * 0 wil ve 1518 , 7 ٹیا ا‎ ۱ of سشیہ‎ ০০০ West 
اع 3 ہتث ہو ای یکل‎ for 1955-56 0 71 
ogislative Assembly + of Third Final Forecast of Winter. Rice Crop 7 
7 ود خر‎ 40 এ a 2 West Bengal for 105-76 17 48 
tov that Asser 8 pub- 010 
before introduction’ in that Assembly Nil ee পা Snr 0181 Woet 4 
—Bills - 70 in the West 0 এ ا‎ 
Legislative Council; Reporte — of .. » APPENDIX— _ 
to thes اشن‎ and Bills ما‎ কিক | ‘Descriptive Catalogue of Books for the: quarter | ۱ 
Introduction in that Council 0. ending June, 1953 es 171 رو‎ a 
RT J—Orders and Notifications by the ০ of West Bengal, the High Court, 
waged 1বভাগ। 24.Parganas-Burdwan,—N 0. 2702G.A. [SP-282). 
56.—16th July,1956.—The Governor is. pleaged to 
HOME DEPARTMENT appoint Shit” Amal Krishna Gupta, ty 


General Administration © 
ক নং ২৭৭৫জি,এ। 
Nov 2775G.A. 
793۰1 ও বদলশী। 
Appointments and Transfers. 
, সাধারণ ١ 
১ পাঁরিঠাট 


we coe ।৮াঁপ-২৮২1৫৬।--৯৬ই 85718 <۱ 
241 জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারখের ২৫৬ ৮জি,এ, নং 'বজ্ঞাপ্ততে 


* | 


ganas, — No. 2700G.A. puget aes 

ly 1956.—The Governor is pleased 9۵ 
6 orders contained in” ag department 
tion No. 2568G.A., dated the 2nd July 
ransferring: Shri Gour ‘Chandra Mallick, 


and Deputy Collector, Alipore,‏ حم 
anas, to the Diamond Harbour Subdivision‏ 7 


district, 020 1718 
rR, -২৭০টাজএ চপ, -২৮২।৫৬ pet জুলাই 
| অবর শাসক ও تج‎ 


| ২৪-পরগনা নং ২৭০৩াজ,এ।৬পি- -২৮২1৫৬।--১৬ই জুলাই ৯ 


5 حم‎ ৯৯৫৬ > তারের ২৬৩ইাজএ Loe 


Magistrate and Deputy Collector, Alipore, 84. ar, 
ganas, to. be a کس‎ Magistrate and De [8171 

Collector in the Burdwan district and to post. a 
to the Asansol subdivision of that district. 


--২৪-পরগনা জেলার শিয়ালদহের উপ-শাসক ও. سس 0ود‎ 
ভট্রাচার্য پر‎ জেলার ডায়মণ্ডহারবারে نس‎ হইলেন। ae 


24-Parganas.— No. 27090. A. [8P-282 /56.- 
July 1956, —The Governor is pleased to ‘tra 

. Shn Satyaranjan Bhattacharj “Depu 3 
" trate and Deputy Collector, Sealdah, 24% 
to the Diamond Harbour এ سن‎ 
district. 


_২৪-পরগনা।-নং ২৭০৪জি,এ।ঠাঁপ-২৮২ ley sek "78 ard 
--২৪-পরগনা জেলার ডায়মণ্ডহারবারের অবর উপ-শাসক اتیل ۔‎ 
3-۹ কুমার ঘোষ উত্ত জেলার সদরে حم‎ হইলেন ٭‎ 


کم | 2704G..A.‏ جو 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased‏ 
Shri Sushil Kumar «Ghosh, Sub-Depu‏ 


trate and — Sub- 
Harbour, P4-Parganas, 
of that district. 


11. : me ۱ 


eputy — Collector, 1 
2 to the 98৫81 uarters 


‘ 9৪ 


۱ ae ۱ 0 এ strict 
071). K ‘Sen, 1 7 8 ‫َ fio ooch ۱ iB h: না. হী ঠা | he Dist 
1 2 order. ‘of the Governor, Note 62) ve 03 
রা کت‎ inajpur, وہ و‎ 
0 টি N. RAY, Chief ১৩৩, 7 (8) Shri Maharaja দি post office 
৮1711511111 ammunition eed ge West Dinajpur, : ও 
+২5-পরগনগা। নং ২৬৭৮াজ,এপি-৯১1৫৬ ।-১৩ই, জুলাই ৯৯৫৬। (4) Wet রি post ‘off ১ 
) _বারাকপারাদ্ধিত আরক্ষা 'শক্ষায়তনের শিক্ষানবীশ . یش‎ 00 
= oh JN কির sees রব হইতে বলদ Gere) SAG Sarat Chandra جو‎ 
র উপ-আরক্ষাধাঙ্ষ fare وو‎ 0 "2 


in of whom the members ۵ء مد‎ ig ate 
রি. Wo: 26784. ٭‎ /3P- 1156. 71960070006) are hereby’ ؛‎ 4 under 


۱ 0 
6.-71]19, Governor is pleased to post Shri of clause (1) of rule 19 of the W 
a Nath Roy, probationary — Deputy . National Volunteer Force ‘Rules, 1949. 


Superintendent of Police, under training at the Th bets hereb 
(791৬ Training College, Barrackpore, to the head- up ai the 815 "Marck এ রগ i. 
| quarters station of the 24-Parganas “district with ° 0 7411 
খাঁ +" 9 the date on which he assumes charge. By anlar of ae: ০৪ سے‎ 
0 in eit) | | | 00'۱۵ MAZUMDER, Asst. 
7৮8). | উড 17817 
General. 009 ٰ Jails ++ ۱ 
নাং ২৬৭৩াঁজ,এ(৬এল-১৩ 1৫৬ এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬1. NOTIFICATION: ° 1171 ৰা; 
۲۶۹ অবর শাসক ও সমাহত শ্রীবাীরেন্্র নাথ বস্‌কে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ No. 1914H.J.—ldth July 1956, —The Gases 
| কতক নিয়মাবলশর (৯ম খণ্ড) ৯৬৭২) সংখ্যক 7 :88د‎ মে 18 pleased to confirm Shri Apurba Kumar Mai ei ri 
১৯৫৬ তারখ হইতে وس‎ দিনের اد‎ ছটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। Superintendent, Burdwan Distriet*Jail, ay Depr 0 
| uperintendent, Dum Dum (Cen ھتاہ‎ J ail, with, 
Maida. -No. 26790. A./6L-13/56.—12th 7815 effect from the 2nd June 18999, ص‎ 9 07 


~The Governor was pleased to allow Shri 0, 
سی‎ Nath Basu, Sub-Magistrate and ۵۹8 
Collector, Malda, earned leave for twenty-five 
10181» ith effect’ from. the ‘14th May 1956 under 
1017) of the West Bengal Service. Rules, 


By order of the Goma tae 
ا سی‎ Cs ১: Dy. ১6৮. 


080 0 8 ا٢ا‎ --৯২ই. জুলাই ১৯৫৬ I~ 
উপ-শাসক ও সমাহতণ 2167 মজ.মদারকে 


4+ ۳5 'নয়মাবলীর (৯ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক Tasca No. 5914/1114: 
১/ই জন ১৯৫৬ তারখ হইতে play দিনের আজতি 8 8:3 ernor was pleased to pie Se ne ‘ 
ag س0‎ | | . Mukherjee, temporary ا‎ E 


- the Construction B 
an,—No. 80740. A. {21-24 0 56.—12th July © without pay for the pec. from 12th | 


তি ডি ]0)৩. Governor is pleased to allow 9111 1955 to 2 wxation of | 
تا‎ Majumdar, Deputy Magistrate and 04 the West Bengal Service Rules, Part: 
0ئ‎ 07৮৮ Kalna, Burdwan, tM 7 11:71:11 | 

' twenty-four days. with effect from the 18th 
1 1956 under rule کل‎ 2 the West ei 
Service Rules, Pere tr ۳ | 


extraor inary . 


2836 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY <0, 4৯০০ 


| Par. ] 


No. 38D.E.—2%h Junt 1956,—Shry ৭৬818) 
Kumar Roy, temporary Agsistant Engineér in 
charge of Tamluk Construction Subdivision under 
the Midnapore Construction Division, was allow- 
ed earned leave for a period- of nineteen days from 
288 April 1956-to llth May 1956 (both days 
inedgisive) undér rule 10802) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


R. C. ROY, Chief Engineer. 


বিচার বিভাগ । 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 


নং ২৭৭৬জ,এ। 


No. 2776G.A. 
WITT | 


Powers. 


নং ২৬৮৩জি,এ1৫স-৪৮1।৫৬।--১৪ই জুলাই sacy নিম্নালাঁখত 
আঁধকারকগণতক উপ-সমাহতার ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল s— 


{ 


(>) A fa, এস, রাঘবন, আই,এ,এস। 


(২) শ্রী টি, ঘোষ, আই,এ,এস। 


No. 2683G.A./5C-48/56.—14th July 1956.—The 
Governor is pleased to vest the officers named 
below with the powers of a Deputy Collector :— 


(1) Shri B. S. Raghavan, 1,4৯9, 
(2) Shri ® Ghosh, I.A.8. 


By order of the Governor, 
9, N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


Judicial 


Appointments and Transfers. 


No. 4499J.—13th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint Shri Krishna Kumar Mitra, 
Subordinate Judge, to be Assistant Sessions Judge 
of the district of Hooghly. 


No. 4500J.—13th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint Shri Kshetra Mohan Das, offi- 
ciating Subordinate Judge, to be Assistant 
Sessigms Judge of the district of Midnapore. 


No. 4501J.—13th July 1956.—The Governor 1s 
وس‎ to appoint Shri Bibhutosh Banerji, officiat- 
ing Subordinate Judge, to be Assistant Sessions 
Judge of the district of 24-Parganss. 


Powers 


Darjeeling.—No 4319J.—5th July 1956.—In 
execrise of the powers conferred by section 14 and 
"the proviso to section 357 of the Code of Criminal] 
Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the Governor 18 
pleased— 


۹ 
(a) to confer upon Shri Chhimi Tenduf La, the 
owers of a Magistrate of the first class, 
in the di#trict of Darjeeling for a period of 
one year with effect from 18th July 1956 i# 
respect of such cases as may be made over 
to him within the limits of the Sadar sub- 
division of the said district, dnd 


(b) ta, direct him to take dowff ‘évidence i 
ا‎ language. ৮ 


24-Parganas.—No. 4456J.—12th July 1850 
In exercise of the powers conferted by section 14 
and the proviso to section 357 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the 
Governor is pleased— 


(a) to confer upon Shri Krishna Kishore Jas 
the powers of a Magistrate of the first 01883) 
in the district of the 24-Parganay, for و‎ 
period of one year with effect from the 
date of this Notification, in respect of 
such cases as may be made over to him 
within the limits of the Sadar subdivision 
of the said district, and 


(b) to direct him to take down evidence in the 
English language. 


24-Parganas.— No. 4457J.—12th July ৯9১6 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14. 
and the proviso to section 357 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the 
Governor is pleased— 


(a) to confer upon Shri Bejoy Basanta Nandy 
the powers of a Magistrate of the #econd 
class, in the district of the 24-Parganas, 
for a period of six months with efte@t 
from the 16th July 1956, in respect of 
such cases as may be made over to Inm 
within the limits of the Barrackpore sub- 
division of the said district, and 


(b) to direct him to take down evidence in. the 
english language. 


Midnapore.—No. 4469J.—13th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 
and the proviso to section 357 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), she 
(Jovernor is pleased— 


(a) to confer upon Shri Chowdhury Aparna 
Kinkar Pal the powers of a Magistrate of 
the second class, in the district of Midna- 
pore, for a period of one year from the 
date of this notification, in respect of 
such cases as may he made over to bim 
within the limits of the Sadar subdivision 
of the said district, and 


(b) to direct him to take down evidence in the 
English language. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 43773.—10th July 1956.—The Governor 36 
pleased to notify that the following further amend- 
ment shall be made in this department notification 
No. 6790J., dated the 5th December 1952, 2 
subsequently amended, relating to the establish- 
ment of the Advisory Committee under clause ٥ 
the Transfer Agreement set forth M the First 
Schedule to the Calcutta Tramways Act, 198] 
(West Bengal Act XXV of 1961), namely:— 


Amendment 


For “(4) Mr. A. Smith", Traffic "Manog®, 
Calcutta Tramways Co., Ltd., substitute 6a Mr 
R. W. Turnbull, Establishment Officers Ca 009 


Tramways (o., 141٠. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS,,Dy. Sev: 


78 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETIE, JULY 26, 1966 2837 


লি ১ 2৯ 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 4707J., dated the 24th July 1956.—In exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 17 of the Mahajati Sadan 
Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XVI of 1949), the Governor is 
pleased to make the following rules ;— 


Rules 
Short 1. These rules may be called the Mahajati Sadan Rules, 
title. 1956. 
ار‎ 2. In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in 


the subject or context,— 


(1) ‘‘Chairman’’ means the Chairman of the Board; 
(2) ‘‘form’’ means a form appended to these rules; 
(3) ‘Secretary’? means the Secretary to the Board; 
(4) ‘‘section’’ means a section of the Act; and 

(5) ‘‘the Act’? means the Mahajati Sadan Act, 1949. 


Trustees. 3 (1) The Board shall be constituted by the State 
Government by notification in the Calcutta Gazette and shall 
consist of eleven trustees, of whom— 


(a) four shall be ez-oficio trustees, namely :— 


(2) the Speaker, West Bengal Legislative Assembly, 
(87) the Mayor of Calcutta, 
(at) the Sheriff of Calcutta, 

(1%) the Vice-Chancellor of the Calcutta University, and 


(b) seven shall be appointed by the State Government. 


(2)(a) A trustee, other than an er-oficio trustee, shall, 
unless he resigns or is removed from office earlier, hold office 
for five years from the date of his appointment and shall be 
eligible for reappointment: 


Provided that on the expiration of the term of office of 
such a trustee, he shall continue to act as a trustee until his 
successor is appointed und the appointment is notified in the 
Calcutta Gazette. 


(b) An ez-oficig trustee shall hold office as’such trustee 
so long as he holds the office by virtue of which he is such 
trustee. 


(3) If a trustee, other than an es-oficio trustee, gives 
notice in writing to the Board that he desires to resign his 
office, the Board shall cause such notice to be recorded in its 
proceedings and he shall thereupon cease to be a trustee. 


Removal 4. ‘he State Government may, by notification in the 
of Calcutta Gazette, remove from office any trustee, other than 
Trustec®. an روس‎ ×٦ trustee, who— 


(a) is convicted of any offence invol-:ng moral turpitude; 
or 


(b) is declared an insolvent; or 


(c) wilfully commits any breach of the duties or obliga- 
tions of his office or wilfully violates any of the 
provisions of the Act or persistently acta in a 
manner prejudicial to the interests of the Board 
or the objects and purposes of the Act; or 


(d) has, without the permission of the Board, been absent 
from all meetings of the Board for a continuous 
period of at least one year; or 


(e) has directly or indirectly any interest in any con- 
tract with the Board by which he may derive any 
benefit or financial gain without fully disclosing 
‘9 the Board his interest in such contract; or 


(f) refuses or becomes unfit or incapable to act as a 
trustee 


2838 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Filling 5. (7) When a trustee other than an ez-oficio trustee 
পাপা vacates his office, due to expiry of his term or dies or resigns 
office ofa OF 1s removed from office, the State Government shall, within 
trustee, three months from the date of his vacating his office or death 

or resignation or removal, appoint by notification in the 


Calcutta Gazette a successor in his place. 


(2) When a trustee dies, or resigns, or is removed 
from office before the expiry of his term of office, his successor 
shall hold office for the unexpired portion of the term. 


Mootings. 6. The minimum number of meetings to be held by the 
Board in any year shall be four and at least one meeting 
shall be held every three months. 


oe 7. (1) The trustees shall, at a meeting held within one 
Board. month of the constitution of the Board, elect one from amongst 
themselves as the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman 


shall hold office till the expiry of his term as a trustee: 


Provided that the Chairman may at any time resign his 
office as Chairman by a letter in writing oddressed to the 
Board. 


(2) In the case of a vacancy in the office of the Chairman, 
a new Chairman shall be elected at a meeting of the Board 
held within one month of the occurrence of the vacancy. 


(3) 18۶ the Board fails to elect a Chairman according to 
these rules, the State Government shall within one month of 
the expiry of the period mentioned in sub-rule (Z) or sub- 
rule (2) appoint one of the trustees as the Chairman. 


(4) The Chairman shall preside over the meetings of the 
Board and in case of his absence from any particular meet- 
ing, the trustees present shall elect one from amongst them- 
selves to preside over the meeting. 


(5) The office of the Chairman shall be honorary. 


দা of 8. (7) Every matter which requires decision of the 
سا‎ Board ৪1199 considered either at a meeting of the Board 
af ihe or, if the Chairman so directs, by circulation of the neces- 
trustees. sary papers for opinion to every trustee who is present in 


India at the time: 


Provided that any trustee may request that the matter may 
be considered at a meeting of the Board and thereupon the 
Chairman may, and if the request is made by three or more 
trustees shall, direct that it is to be so considered. 


(2) All questions in a meeting of the Board shall be 

decided by a majority of votes. In case of equality of votes 

~the Chairman or the trustee presiding at the meeting shall 
have a casting vote. 


(3) Every matter circulated to the trustees for opinion 
under sub-rule (7) shall, unless the Chairman in pursuance 
of the proviso to that sub-rule directs it to be considered at 
a meeting, be decided in accordance with the opinion of the 
majority of the trustees, recording opinion within the time 
allowed for 14. 


The Board may, by a resolution passed at a meet-‏ )1( ,9 وا سیسات 

2 ing duly convened on a fortnight’s notice, appoint a Managing 

and other Committee or such other Committee or Committees as it 

Commit- thinks fit, for such period as it considers necessary, and may 

tees. from time to time delegate to such Committee or Committees 
such of ita powers as it may deem expedient, and may 
similarly revoke such appointment and may vary, modify or 
revoke the powers so delegated : 


Provided that a Managing Committee appointed under 
this rule shall consist of such number of members selected 
by the Board from amongst the trustees and the donors 
as may be determined by the Board. 


(2) The Board may from time to time give directions to 
the Managing Committee or any other Committee regarding 
the exercise of any powers delegated to it. 


[Parr ] 


Part I] 


THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


2839 


১৩ 


Accounts 


and audit. 


10. The Board shall be responsible to the State Govern- 
ment for the proper maintenance and management of the 
Mahajati Sadan and the Mahajati Sadan Fund. 


11. The Board shall use the Mahajati Sadan and its 
equipments for the purposes set out in the Second Schedule 
to the Act and objects connected therewith subject to such 
terms and conditions as may be approved of by the State 
Government. 


12. (Z) The Board shal) keep clear and correct account 
of all receipts into and disbursements out of the Mahajati 
Sadan Fund. 


(2) The Secretary to the Board shall be responsible for-— 


(a) 1 item of receipt into and expenditure out of the 
ahajati Sadan Fund, 


(৮) the custody of all articles of stock and stores vested 
in ا‎ oard and all issues and receipts thereof, 
an 


(c) maintaining records of all properties vested in the 
Board including lands, buildings, and investments. 


(3) All the account books and registers of the Board shall 
be bound and paged before being brought into use and all 
entries therein shall be made in English. All such books and 
registers shall be kept in the office of the Board and shall not 
be removed therefrom. 


(4) All corrections and alterations in accounts shall be 
neatly made in ink and attested by the initials of the Secre- 
tary. All corrections and alterations in vouchers shall be 
attested by the payee. No erasure shall be permitted in 
any account register, statement, voucher or book. Every 
سا‎ on the payment side of the cash book except in respect 
of charges not exceeding Rs.20, shall be supported by 
vouchers which shall be kept in a guard file and numbered 
consecutively in order of payment in each year. 


(5) As soon as any loss of money, stock or stores by 
embezzlement, theft or otherwise is discovered, the fact shall 
he reported by the Secretary to the Chairman. The Secretary 
shall with all possible despatch submit a further and com- 
plete report after full enquiry showing the total extent of 
the loss, the manner in which it occurred, and the steps taken 
to recover the amount or article lost and to punish those 
responsible for the loss. The Chairman shall submit the 
report to the State Government. 


(6) The amount of loss hy embezzlenrent, theft or other- 
wise shal] not be written off from the accounts without the 
sanction of the Board, provided that when the amount of 
losa exceeds Rs. 500 the sanction of the State Government 
shall also be necessary for writing it off. 


(7) The Board in consultation with the State Government 
shall decide upon the number and forms of account books to 
be maintained by the Secretary for the purpose of keeping 
accounts of the Moahajati Sadan Fund. The Secretary shall 
maintain a cash book in such form as may be prescribed by 
the State Government. At the end of each day the Secre- 
tary shal] verify the cash in hand and shall cause a memo- 
randum to be recorded showing the total expenditure and 
the bulance in hand, in cash and in the bank. 


(8) The Secretary shall prepare the annual accounts of 
the Mahajati Sadan Fund for every financial year beginning 
on the Ist day of April as 805১৮ as possible after the 6) 
March following in Form A. He shall also prepare a 
balance sheet showing the asseta and liabilities of the Fund 
at the end ofthe year. 

(9) The annual accounts of the Mahajati Sadan Fund 
shall be examined and audited by an auditor appointed by 
the State Government. The cost of audit shall te paid out 
of the Fund. 

(10) The auditor shall send copies of his report to the 
Chairman and the State Government. The State Government 
shall examine the report and may call for the explanation 
of any person concerned in regard to any matter therein, and 
shal] pass such orders on the report as it thinks fit. 

(77) An abstract of the annual accounts together with 
the auditor’s certificate thereon shall be published in the 
Calcutta Gazette for general information. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Authorities 
empowered 
to receive 
on behalf 
of the 
Mahajati 
Sadan 
Fund 

and to 


disburse 
therefrom. 


13. (4) A budget estimate in Form B showing the 
probable receipts and expenditure under all heads during the 
ensuing financial year beginning on the 18৮ day of April, 
shall be prepared by the Secretary, and submitted to the 
Board for approval at a meeting to be held not later than the 
16) January. A copy of such budget estimate as approved 
by the Board shall be forwarded to the State Government 
by the 15th February. 


(2) No expenditure shall be undertaken without the sanc- 
tion of the Board and no new schemes shall be included in 
ute 0 unless they have been duly sanctioned by the 

0873, 


(9) The Secretary shall show in the budget opening and 
closing estimated balances. He shall also show in the 
budget an allotment sufficient to meet the cost of audit as 
determined by the State Government. He shall provide in 
the budget estimate for a closing balance of not less than 
three months’ normal expenditure. 


(4) The Secretary shall prepare a revised budget estimate 
for the year current and shall submit it to the Board with 
the budget estimate for the ensuing year at a meeting to he 
held not later than the 15th January and the foregoing rules 
shall apply to the revised budget estimate. 


(5) The State Government may sanction the budget 
estimates as they stand or subject to such modifications as it 
may deem necessary. 


(6) The Chairman shall have power to sanction within 
the financial year reappropriation from one minor head to 
another under the same major head provided that the reappro- 
priation does not involve undertaking any new recurring 
habihty. All other reappropriations shall require the sanc- 
tion of the State Government. 


(7) No expnditure not provided for in the budget shall 
be incurred without finding the ways and means for incurring 
such expenditure and without the previous sanction of the 
State Government. 


14. (1) The Secretary shall receive all monies paid into 
the Mahajati Sadan Fund and grant a receipt therefor, pro- 
vided that whea-the amount is in excess of Rs.500, the receipt 
shall be signed by the Secretary as well as the Chairman. 
Receipt book in machine numbered form shall invariably 
be used for giving such receipts and these books shall be kept 
under lock and key in the personal custody of the Secretary. 
Counterfoils of used receipt books shall also be kept in his 
personal custody. 


(2) All sums received into the Mahajati Sadan Fund shall, 
not la‘er than the following working day, be paid in full جا‎ 
the Secretary into the Mahajati Sadan Fund Account wit 
the State Bank of India after duly accounting for the same 
in the account books of the Mahajati Sadan and he shall be 
responsible for the custody of such sums until payment 
into the Mahajati Sadan Fund Account. The Secretary may 
retain in his custody a sum not exceeding 118.2600 for meet- 
ing contingent expenditure. As often as necessary, the 
shortage in the amount consequent on expenditure may be 
recouped by withdrawing money from the Mahajati Sadan 
Fund Account. 


(3) Payments from the Mahajati Sadan Fund shall be 
moade— 


(a) by cheque or 
(6b) in cash, when the amount does npt exceed Ra,20, or 


when authorised by the Board thuugh the amount 
exceeds Ra.20. 


(4) When any payment is made by cheque, the cheque 
shall be drawn on the current account of the Mahajati Sadan 
Fund with the State Bank of India signed by the Chairman, 
after the pay order on the bill has been signed by two 
trustees and duly countersigned the Secretary as laid 
down in sub-section (£) of section 4 of the Act. 


(5) Every bill or other claim for payment from the 
Mahajati Sadan Fund shall be checked and examined by the 
Head Clerk of the Board’s office who, after ascertaining if it 
is correct and in order, shall submit it to the Secretary for 


Appoint- 
ment, 


remunere- 


tion, 6*0 ر‎ 
of officers 
and 
servants 
of the 
Buard. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


orders. If payment of the bill or claim so submitted is to 
be made, an order for pa ment shall be endorsed upon it. 
The order for payment shall be as follows :— 


“1১8 Rupees only (Rs. )”? the 
amount being written in words as well as in figures, 
and shall be signed by two trustees and counter- 
signed by the Secretary. 


(6) The Clerk-in-charge shall also note on it the classifica- 
tion of the charges according to the heads shown in the 
budget or in such greater detail as may be necessary for entry 
in the cash book after payment. 


(7) If the bill is to be paid in cash, the Secretary shall 
make an endorsement to that effect and sign the pay order 
on the bill and make it over to the Clerk-in-charge for pay- 
ment. The Clerk-in-charge shall, after the payment, stamp 
the vouchers with the words ‘‘Paid in cash’’ conspicuously. 
The amounts paid in cash shall be entered daily in the cash 
book from the sub-vouchers relating thereto and the entries 
signed by the Secretary. 


(8) Kvery payment from the Mahajati Sadan Fund shall 
be supported by a voucher in a proper form duly signed and 
receinted by the payee himself or his authorised agent and 
stamped, if necessary. 


(9) Payments ما‎ illiterate persons shall be attested by a 
competent witness in addition to the paying officer. When 
the payee signs in vernacular, the amount acknowledged 
shall be noted by him in the same vernacular. 


(40) The cash book shall be written up and balanced daily 
and the cash balance shall be verified by the مار‎ at the 
end of each day. At the end of each month the Chairman 
shall verify the cash book and record a signed and dated 
vertificate to that effect. Before recording the certificate he 
shall satisfy himself, by comparing the Bank’s receipt or the 
Pass Book with the entries in the cash book, that the 
amounts have actually been credited into the bank. ae 
erasure or overwriting of an entry once made in the cas 
book is strictly prohibited. If any correction be necessary, 
the incorrect entry shall be cancelled neatly in red ink, and 
the correct entry inserted. Each such correction, or any 
interpolation deemed necessary, shall be authenticated by 
the Secretary setting his dated initials against each. 


15. (1) The Board may appoint, with the previous 
approval of the State Government, a Secretary, and such 
other officers and servants in addition to the Secretary as may 
be necessary for the proper and efficient management of the 
Mahajati Sadan, its properties and fund. 


(2) The Board shall, with the approval of . State 
Government, lay down the qualifications, remuneration, and 
terms and conditions of service of the Secretary and other 
officers and employees of the Board. 


(3) The Hoard shall advertise the post of the Secretary 
in the Calcutta Gazette and select a candidate for appoint- 
ment after considering the applications received in response 
to such advertisement, provided that the Board may in the 
case of casual vacancy appoint witb the concurrence of the 
State Government any person to temporarily hold the office 
of the Secretary pending the appuvintment of a permanent 
Secretary. 


(4) All persons appointed by the Board shall be on proba- 
{ion for two years from the date of their appointment: 


Provided that for any particular pore or class of posts the 
Board may reduce the period of probation to one year. 


(5) The pay of any person in the service of the State 
(jovernment, when transferred for employment under the 
Board, shall be fixed by the State Government in accord- 
ance with the rules governing the conditions of his service 
under the State Government. 


2841 


2842 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Parr] 


সপ 


(6) The Board may for good and sufficient reason dismiss 
or remove from office the Secretary and any other officer or 
servant of the Board: 


Provided that the sanction of the State Government shall 
۳ কু for the dismissal or removal from office by the 
Soard of— 


(2) the Secretary, or 


(82) any other employee of the Board who is a Govern- 
ment servant, 


(7) In matters of leave, discipline and appeal, the 
employees of the Board shall be governed by the rules 


applicable (0 Government servants of corresponding grades. 


\8) In respect of control over the Board’s office and the 
grant of leave and awarding of minor punishments to the 
Board’s employees, the executive powers of the Board shall 
be exercised by the Chairman of the Board. 


Ezplanation—ln this sub-rule ‘‘minor punishments’ 
means— 


(t) censure, 
(it) withholding of increment of pay, and 
(58) suspension. 


(9) As soon as an order of suspension is passed against a 
(tovernment servant employed under the Board a report shall 
be submitted to the State Government. 


(10) The pay and the allowances of any officer or servant 
of the Board appointed to officiate in any post under the 
Board shall be regulated by the rules in force from time to 
time regulating the pay and allowances of Government 
servants officiating in posts in connection with the affairs of 
the State. 


16. If any difficulty or doubt arises in relation to any 
matter রব to the purposes of the Act but not covered 
by these 71108, then the State Government shall be com- 
petent to issue such directions, not inconsistent with the 
purposes of the Act, as ‘gi a to it to be necessary or 
expedient for removing such difficulty or doubt. 


prt 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 


FORM A 
[See Rule 12(8).] 


Annual account for the yoar 


Expendi- 
Reoeipts ture 
(major Budget | Previous | Year of (major | Budget | Previous | Year of 
and minor | estimate. | year's | account and | estimate. | year's account 
heads of actuals. | (actuals), | minor actuals, | (actuals). 
budget). heads of 
budget). 


১ fl lca aeons ig DEINE ০:55 || (ভিজা লাজ | TE | KTS | ররর I 


284) 


2844 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Heads of Receipts. 


A.—Ordinary Receipta— 
I. Contributione— 


($) State Government— 


Arrear 7 os 
Current ৪৪ 
(8) Corporation of Caloutta— 
Current oe 7 
Interest on investments 7 on 
Other items Pe 7 
Total A.—Ordinary Receipts ee os 
B.—Debt, deposits and advances— 
(a) Loans رف رف‎ 
(b) Sale-proceeds of investments 
(c) Deposits 
(d) Advances oe 
(e) Realisation of sinking fund for repayment 
of loans ৮৬ -۰ 
Total B.—Debt, deposits and advances ৪ 
Total Receipte ee ریف‎ 
Opening balance রর “x 


Grand Total 7 7 


FORM 
[966 Rule 


Budget 


Actuals of the preceding | estimate 
three years. of the 


{Pant 1 


pss 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 384) 
পে লাউ 


B(1) 


1301).] 


Form 


Actuals of the first 


ৃ Revised estimate Budget estimato 
i gee بث‎ of the current year. for the next year. 
Explanatory 
remarks. 
Previous | Current বাঃ Passed by | Pro Passed by 
year. year, y Govern- y Govern- 
Board. ment, Board, ment, 


8 9 10 11 12 


2846 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Parr] 


a ES a re گکگکگیےپژ.تیتبپج ؾ‎ ٤ےکسِس×‎ 


Heads of Expenditure. 


A.—Ordinary Expenditure— 


1. Pay of officere— 


Leave salary oe a ws 
2. Pay of establishment— 
($) Clerks ee ws oe 
(ss) Servants ne ve oe 
(888) Temporary establishment ae 
(sv) Leave salary, .. _- ৪ <a 


Allowances, honoraria, eto.—‏ و 
Travelling allowance 7‏ )$( 
(4s) Dearneas allowance 7 a‏ 
House-rent and other allowances‏ )4%( 


4. Contingencies— 


(a) Consolidated rate as ee 
(9) Telephone charges 7 7٦ 
(6) Eleotric charges oe ee 
(d) Postage and Telegram .. es 
(6) Stationery on 7 os 
(f) Printing and Forms 
ا‎ Ae ol the Maia fatiicaday 
(7) Fees for audit of Mahajati Sadan Fund 
accounts ve ee ee 
($) Miscellaneous .. oe ee 
5. Payment of interest on loans ৬৪ ্ ٠ 
Total A.—Ordinary Expenditure be 5 


B.—Debt, deposite and ৫৮০" ہہ‎ — 


(a) Investments ۰ oe oe 
(9) Repaynhent of loans ms oe 
(c) Refund of deposite as ৮৬ 
(৫) Advances দি 7 
(6) Payrnents to sinking fund .. ৩ 


Total B.—Debt, deposits and advances 
Tota] Expenditure রর oe ay 
Closing Balance es 7 


Grand Total 


جج ٭.ْ٭ ٣9 @aanes চা‏ ص و۶ 


FORM 
[466 Rule 
Budget 


Actuals of the preceding 
three years, 


Passed by the Board at their meeting held on the...... ০2775225578 om 
Sanction of Government communicated with thoir letter No. » dated 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


B(2) 
13(1).] 
Form 
Actuals of the first এ ৃ : 
: Rovised estimate Budget estimate 
= 7 of the for the current year. for the next year. 
Explanatory 
: Proposed | Passed by | Proposed | Passed b سیت‎ 
Previous ০০৯ by ৩ be চি 
een 7 Board. ment. Board. ment. 
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
Re. Ra. Ra. Ra. Ra. Rea. 
১৯ আস 
اس‎ a 
2 ০. 
* 7 2 


٭ م٭ ی“٭ ؿق ؿ ض یؿٌ 8۴ ك٭ ە>. ؿٌ ةق+ھ و٭م> وو مےّ درو وو و و وو و رو وہ 


Secretary. 


and submitted to Government with their letter No. » dated 


By order of the Governor, 


K. 5۰ HAJARA, 


Reavy ta thea flavt af Waat Ranaas 


2847 


2848 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Part I 
> 

RESOLUTION No. 4288J. (ii) in item No. ‘(bh)’, under the heading 

‘aleutta, the 6th July 1956. ‘Police’, for the entry in the column 


The Governor is pleased to decide that the Law 
Revision Committee appointed by the State Govern- 
ment in 1962 for revision of West Benga! Laws be 
redesignated as the State Law Commission to con- 
sist of the following existing members, namely :— 


(1) Sir Arthur Trevor Harries, ex-Chief Justice, 
Caleutta High Court—Chairman. 


(2) Shri M. N. Ghose, Barrister-at-Law. 


2. ShriS. K. Maitra, Assistant Secretary, 
Legislative Department, will act as Secretary to 
the State Law Commission. 


3. The functions of the State Law Commission 
will be— 


(a) to examine all Acts, Rules and Regulations 
affecting West Bengal except Central Acts 
relating to matters in the concurrent list 
and to suggest such amendments as may 
be found necessary to bring them into 
conformity with the Constitution, 10 
remove the difficulties experienced by the 
Administrative Departments concerned in 
udministering the Acts, and to eliminate 
the defects pointed out by judicial deci- 
sions; and چا‎ 

(9) to deal with such departmental requisitions 
of the Administrative Departments in con- 
nection with legislation matters as may be 
referred to it by the Judicial Department 
and to undertake any other allied func- 
tions which may be entrusted to it by the 
State Government in the Judicial Depart- 


ment. 
Order 


OrnEren that the resolution be published in the 
Calcutta Gazette and that a copy thereof be for- 
warded to the members of the State Law Commis- 
sion. کی‎ 

2. ORvERED also that a copy of the resolution 
be forwarded to all departments of Government 
and the Accountant-General, West Bengal, for 
information. 

By order of the Governor, 


K. K. HAJARA, Secy. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
Audit 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 3116F./F/4A-23/56.—18th July 1956.— 
Shri G. D. Goswami, I.A.8., is appointed to be 
 Damity Secretary, Finance Department, with effect 
from “ad July Ivob (forenoon). _ 
By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. SEN GUPTA, Jt. Secy. 


No. 3057F/F1R-18(17)/56.—10th July 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by the proviso 
to article 309 of the Constitution of India read 
with paragraph 19 of the Adaptation of Laws 
Order, 1950, the Governor is pleased to make the 
following amendments in the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part 11 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
rules), namely :— 

Amendments 


In Appendix No. 15 of the said rules— 

(i) in item No. ‘(g)’’, under the heading 
‘Police’, for the entry in the column 
under the heading ‘“‘Particulars’’, عر٤ار‎ 
stitute the following, namely :— 


“Tryvelling allowance at transfer rates sub- 
ject to the condition that they actually 
remove their families to and from 
Calcutta and draw house rent while 
residing there’? and 


under the heading ‘Particulars’, sub- 
stitute the following, namely :— 


‘Travelling allowance under ordinary rules’’, 


This order shall be deemed to have effect and to 
ee always had effect on and from the 17th May 
1094. 


By order of the Governor, 


B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


Taxation: 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 1439F.T.—4th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to allow the following retired officers, now 
temporarily re-employed as Agricultural Income- 
tax Officers, to continue to act as such officers for a 
further period noted against each :— 


(1) Shri Sukumar Mukherjee—From 1st July 
1956 to 17th May 1987. 


(2) Shri Nibaran Ch. Chakravarty—From 
18 July 1956 to 18th May 1957. 


(3) Shri Ganga Charan Sen—From lst July 
1956 to 20th May 1957. 


(4) Shri Aswini Kumar Bhowmik—From 24th 
September 1956 to 23rd September 1957. 


(5) Shri Prafulla Ch. Das—From 24th Septem- 
ber 1956 to 23rd September 1957. 


(6) Shri Surendra Nath Sen Gupta—From 15th 
September 1956 to 14th September 1957. 


(7) Shri Radhashyam Das—From 186 July 1956 
to 918 August 1966. 


(8) Shri Himangshu Sekhar Majumder—From 
20th September 1956 to 14 Octohex 4856. 


/ 


? 


No. 1454F.T.—5th July 1906.-111)6 Governor is 
pleased to allow Shri Birendra Nath Gupta, Com- 
mercial ‘T'ax Officer, Grade I, leave on average pay 
for three months twenty-five days with effect from 
the 15th June 1956 to the 9th October 1956 under 
ms 3لت ا"‎ of the West Bengal Service Rules, 

art ۰ 


No. 1457F.T.—5th July 1956.—The Governor 18 
leased to post Shri Sekarash Biswas, Commercia 
ax Officer, Grade II, Beadon Street District 1 
Charge, Calcutta, to Canning Street District JV 
Charge, Calcutta, with effect from the date ٥ 
which he assumes charge. 


No. 1458F.T.—-bth July 1956.—The Governor 
iy pleased to post Shri Sunil Krishna Basu, Com- 
mercial Tax Officer, Grade JI, Taltala Charge; 
Calcutta, to Colotolla Charge, Calcutta, with effect 
from the date on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1459F.T.—5th July 1956.—The Governor 
pleased to post Shri S. M. A. Mirza, Commercis 
Tax Officer, Bhawanipur Charge, Calcutta, 1 
Esplanade Charge, Calcutta, with effect from the 
date on which he assumes charge, 


a 


ob to টাল یہ می دم‎ 


۱ 0 
১4 
/ 1 0 ۹ 
a> i 
Rik iis eal 
11 ۲ / 
0 
1 
44 ‘ 
518 


| ۰. রর 0-2 و‎ Importers /Mills Selling Agents/Com- For new licence .. 
eal 81 00000898010 Agente. ৃ شا‎ renewal ১, i 
1 | ۱ | dt in 02 27 


1181 7 - Substitute the following. namely :— | ْ ৃ | 0 ا‎ ٦ 7 চর 0 ۰ 


Mills Selling Agents... .« , Bor new licence ٦ 409. ae 7 ঁ nee :‏ لکیہ سوہ 


রং 2 101 ১১১৭1৪41171 ডি ae 0۸۵٣ 
982100000018810)) Agents ., -. For new licence .. 100 i نت‎ ne টা 
107 ‘ | | For renewal ৮7177185177 নট ۵ 0 
ٰ 193 Importers, other than Mill’s Selling For new licence .. 75 : ২ is 8 


Agents and Commission Agents, For renewal ae ao. 


57871818585 মারো: * 81 ০1844 য় for the heading “ Group of licence required : 
٦ مہ‎ A(1)/A(2)/A(3)/A(4)/A(6)/ B/C] /4 ১ substitute the ১০ namnely ; im 


“ Group of licence required : Group 411491491441451 B1/B2/B3/O/D/ 8”, "۵ 


7 7 ' ۹ ۱ ۓ‎ & 4 7 ٰ ۲ ۸ Ai 
(94%11778 oa oe নি yt eet 11৮8) 1৮). بل ؤ3(‎ ॥ ۱ ۰ 
1 018 9 1 i ۵ 7 : } 4 , - 


‘No. 14601. ‘T.—5th J uly 1956. The (78 শা No. 14648, ۳ 5. 7 uly 
leased to ae Shri و‎ Das Gupta, Commer- _ oe to post Shri گا‎ 
! Tax Officer, Howrah Charge, Ca cutta, to 24- تمنت‎ Tax Officer, Grade হা 
081০08/9) with effect. from the 2 Bengal, Calcutta, to de I, Cen sal : 


ile on hid 2 aesumies'charge, ۱ سے‎ wh 7 09160088 with effect from — 


৭17 alr Diya ৬/) 09 ٦ 1 4 
t+ by 1), 00 fie ۹ Wt vy wh ra 1 ny 9 ip ha ۳ .: AY ty ১ না ۸۷۴) 


‘Yo, ےرم‎ : July 1956.—The Governor is 
18৪1 + ار‎ Shri Sat a ey ens Paul, Commer- 1 
11, Bl awanipur " Charge, سوہ‎ ia topes 


ict এক) ৩0 from the tice 


1181 


11147 1517 
ان 
کو 1 

4 ا‎ et رر‎ J 


2880 THE CALCUTTA 08215108450 10112 26, 1966 


[Parr | 


SS 595.) و نس وو و ویووڑوْووبے-ے-وپ- -آ*-7ص۔سسسکک  کگس“س”۷سےجحج‌ِج‎ 
Statistical Bureau, to act temporarily as Assistant 


Superintendent, Agricultural Statistics Branch of 
the Bureau, at Jhargram, with effect from the 
Ist July 1956 from which date Shri Jogendra 
Chandra Sarkar shall revert to his former post of 
Supervisor. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


EXCISE DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 608Ex.—5th July 1956.—The Governor 1s 
pleased to allow Shri Amiyanath Majumdar, Per- 
sonal Assistant to the Commissioner of Excise, 
West Bengal, earned leave for seventy days from 
the Ist August 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part 1. 


No. 609Ex.—5th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to allow Shri Ranjit Kumar Biswas, 
Superintendent of Excise, Malda, earned leave for 
fifteen days from the 24th June 1956 under rule 
167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I, and in continuation leave on private affairs 
for two months under rule 172(a), West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, in extension of the leave 
already granted to him. 


No. 610Ex.—65th July 1956.—In exercise of the 
power conferred by clause (b) of sub-section (2) of 
section 7 of the Bengal Excise Act, 1909 (Bengal 
Act V of 1909), the Governor is pleased to direct 
that the following amendment shall be made in 
notification No. 805Ex., dated the 30th August 
1960) as subsequently amended, published at 
pages 1613-1622 of the Calcutta Gazette, Extra- 
ordinary, dated the 17th September 1955, appoint- 
ing members of the Excise Licensing Boards in all 
fhe districts and areas of the State :— 


Amendment. 


In the entries against ‘‘Darjeeling’’, in item 
No. 11, unde: the sub-heading ‘‘Non-official 
Members’’, for ‘“‘Shri George Mahbert, 
M.L.A., Post Office Siliguri, Darjeeling’’, 
read “‘Shri Narbahadur Gurung, M.L.A., 
Kamal Kutir, Kalimpong, Darjeeling’’. 


No. 617Ex.—6th July 1956.—Shri G. D. 
Goswami, I.A.8., Deputy Secretary, Finance 
Department, is appointed to be Ex-officio Deputy 
Secretary to the Gtovernment of West Bengal in 
the Excise Department with effect from the 200 
July 1956, until further orders. 


Ry order of the Governor, 


B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


EXCISE DIRECTORATE 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 21Exe.—13th July 1956.—Shri Kanai Lal 
Pramanik, Inspector of Excise, Hooghly, is trans- 
ferred to Calcutta. 


No. 22Exe.—Ilith July 1956.—Shri_ Prati, 
Kumar J)as, Inspector of Excise, Calcutta, 18 
transferred to the district of Hooghly and posted 
to the Arambagh Range. 


No. 28iixc.—16th July 1956.—Shri Sukumar; 
De, Inspector of Excise, E.1.B., is granted earned 
leave for sixty-one days under rule 167(ii) of the 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, with eifect 
from 23rd June 1956. 


M. SEN, Commissioner. 


পশ্চিমবঙ্গ বাঁণজ্যকর আঁধকার। 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES 
WEST BENGAL 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলশী। 
NOTIFICATIONS 


নং ৮০৫১সি,ট।-৬ই Wane ১১৫৬।- এসপ্লানেড কার্ধভারের 
বাণিজ্যকর আঁধকারিক (২য় পর্যায়) শ্রীসৃনীল রঞ্জন সরকারকে ہوم‎ 
কৃতাক নিয়মাবলশীর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭২) সংখ্যক নিয়মানসারে ১১ই জল 
১৯৫৬ হইতে ২৯শে জুন ১৯৫৬ পর্যন্ত উনিশ দিনের alee ef 
মঞ্জুর করা ئ۲8۶1‎ ۱ 


অশোক FH রায়, 
মহাধাক্ষ। 


No. 8051C.T.—6th July 1956.—Shri Sunil 
Runjan Sarkar, Commercial Tax Officer, Grade II, 
Ksaplanade Charge, was granted earned leave for 
nineteen days from llth June 1956 to 29th June 
1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


No. 67C0.T.—12th July 1956.—In pursuance of 
the provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 27A_ of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules 1941, it ia notified for 
general information that the following declaration 
forms have been reported to be lost, destroyed or 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whom 
these declaration forms were issued and are 1D- 
valid for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Sales 
Tax) Act, 1941, and Bengal Sales Tax Rules: — 


Serial No. of the declaration Name, address and registration 
forms reported to be lost, certificate No. of the rogié 
destroyod or stolen. tored dealer to whom issue 

and from whom lost, ٥۹ 

troyed or stolen. 


(1) (2) 


Messrs. Sen's Autumobiles 140 
2۶ Panditiya Road, Caloutta. 
BH/1730A. 


1. A/4-405328  , 


2. A/4-658337 Messrs. India Paper Pulp Co. 
Ltd., 8, Clive নি Calcutta. 


CSIIT/748A. 


3. A/1-568271 to A/1-568275 Messrs. Tractor Spares & 0. 
2 Clivo Ghat Street, Caloutts 
LR/2408A. 


Morera. Dey'’s Medical Store 
(Private) Ltd,, 6/2B, Lindsay 
Stzect, Calcutta, T'L/13784- 


4. A/1-754004 


No. and date of Goods for use in manufacture or in 


the execution of contracts. 


(1) Raw materials—Coal, sand. 
(2) Plant, machinery spare 0৯০৮৪ 
and 80058802168. 


(3) ¢ onsumable etores. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
ee of the goods pamed 

elow :— 


(5) Bricks, brick bate. 


(44) Soorkey and brick 
ballast. 


(1) Raw matertals. 


2) Plant, ৪১ 5 parts 
€ and 80988901165 টিসি 


(3) Consumable stores, viz., coal, 
straw. 


Provided that al) goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax ما‎ claimed are intendsad 
for use in the actual process of 


manufacture of the goods named 


below :-—— 
Bricks for sale. 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Piant, machinery, spare parts 
and 90099801169. 


(8) Consumable stores, viz., coal 
and fire-wood. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are 1 8 
for use in the actual process of 
নি of the goods named 

ow: er 


Sweets. 


۹+ ود 


seus 


Provided that all goods for which 


Part I] THE CAIXUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 
No. 64C.T.—12th July 1956.—In pursuance 
of the p বা of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following mnnmes and addresses of newly 
serial Name of the dealer. |§Addresaand chief placeof Additional 
No. 10081170685. lace of registration 
usinesa, certificate. 
2 5 4 6 
1 Garal Brothors ہہ‎ Budha Road, Asansol, er AS ate 
Burdwan. 8.2. 
@ Jankidas Pradipkumar 10007510101 Birbhum .. oe 82717. 
Standard Trading 60 Narkeldanga North 7 BDI/2672A, 
: aa a ۶ Road, Caloutta. 29-6-1956. 
88888. Steol Craft Agen- 20 Maharshi Debendra oe BDIT/2740A, 
: 7 : Road, Calcutta. 27-4-6. 
Deokal Singh .. Ohetla Rallway Siding, at BH/2815A, 
চি سو‎ Plot No. 7, Caleutte: 3-7-1056. 
6 United Bricks Manufac- Jotrdm, Burdwan ৪ ০৮৮: 
turéra and Contractor. 4-7-66. 
. H. ing Co. .ےہ‎ 20/1A Eden Hospital 7 CL/2734A, 
০০০০৪ Calcutta. . 27-6-56. 
irdharilal .. 0 Cross Street, <i CSII/3328A, 
8 Nathmal Girdharila مو ام ا‎ 
9M . Ratilal Kapadia 89 Cross Street (2nd ns 08 ر۸‎ 
& Co. floor), Calcutta. 2-7-66. 
0 Mosars. tan Sew- P-0 Pageyaputty Street, ms 081۷/8604. 
۱ ratan. aves 0018 ১2059 37-66. 
ll M . Bengal Assam Harrison Road (lat a CSIV/2351A, 
ce ie gy rs Calcutta. 8-7-56. 
ا18‎ Debiram Nandji Prasad © Kalimpong و و‎ 5 gy 
18 Rameswardas Gopiram = Bliliguri ০, me 7 7ط‎ [7 
14 Kamalale .. Siligur 7 04ت‎ 
تا‎ 5 7 4-7-5 
15 Mesarg, Super Watch Co. 6 Radha Bazar Street. - ای‎ 
Caloutta. 
16 Messrs. Gama Deyton & 142/5 Radha Bazar Street, EL/3155A, 
Co. 7 Ca lo utta. ae 8-7 0-۔-‎ 
17 ملا‎ 8 0. Ghosal .. 13838170885 Lane, &4-Parga- HW/126B, 
تی‎ 9888 Howrah, uaa ii). -7-56. 
18 Be) 7 ne MN/1301A, 
টপিক ۱ Banskurl Mojla, Dankura 2 


exemption from payment of 
80198 tax 18 claimed are intended 
rocess of 
৪ framed 


low سس‎ 

Lubricating oll, kerosone and 
busket for raising 
from colliery for sale. 


for use in the actual 
raising coal of the 


Mill made and 


2861 


registered dealers together with n description of 
the goods covered by their registration certificates 
are published for general information :— 


Goods for re-sale, 


7 


Brick, brick bate, soorkey. 


Poppy seeds, gy te irs, ر7‎ 
8184 و‎ una, k ৪ 
mustard oll, neti iy sugar, 
turmeric, betelnuts 


Hides and skins. 

M. ৪. کسی‎ M. 8. angles, R. ৪, 
iene. R &. channels, alvanined 
pial n and corruga shects 
lack plain corrugated sheote, 
and sheet cuttings. 


Coke and coal. 


Bricks. 


Industrial rubber goods, asbeatos 
goods and plastic goods. 


Pleoe-govds. 

Textile goods. 
Mill-made dhuti, aari, chaddar, 
سے‎ এটা 


accessor! 
Orange, tea, ginger and tomato. 


and cables and 


স্ব بل اد ند س8‎ 
rod, flat iron, 0০৮ and 

seth‏ سی ۲ a jute‏ اط 

ma بد نس‎ Ms pan, G. 1. 

buckots, trical پا‎ painta, 
varnishes, linseed oil, turpenrine 
oll, votton rope, cotton 4 
sand paper, wrench, file, b 
wire and fence 
weighta, ulin tools, wigh- 
ing materials, scale, 11196 black 


handloom oa 
woollen cloth, allken cloth and 
hoalery goods. 


Watches, and thelr parta. 


Watches, — time-pioce and 


parta thereo 
Sheets, plate, joists, angles, chan- 
nel, rounds, ot moulding, 


Duss. سا‎ moulds, 0. I, acrap, 
, ©. 1. machinery parts, 
plg کہ‎ 18, 0 . pans. 


ویو ٭ 


2882 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Pari ] 


——————————————————————————————————————————————>S>—E>E>o—> —>————— 


Serial Name of the dealor. 


No. Nace of 


11851170988, 


business. 


1 2 $ 


19 Messra Maheshwari Mince. 2 prices ا‎ Road, 


ral Industries. Calou 


20 Ashok§Tradcrs 


2 rm 80 Place, 


Ganosh Chandra ٦ 
Avenue, Calcutta. 


76 Bowbazar Street, 
alcutta. 


2] Messrs. Choke! Brothers 66 


(Private) Ltd. 


৫ Eureka 
inting Works, 


(Private) Lt, 


17 Contra Avenue, 


Caloutta. 


16A Ramkanai Adhika- ee 
zy Lane, Calcutta. 


ار 


28 Mesars. P. A. 48103180168 


Rally 
of 
ting 


6 Shyam Charan De en 


Btu- 
25 Mesers The Dacca det (91605 


denta Library. 


. Sankar T ng 20 #£Benilatola Lane, 5 
26 — avkar Trading ৬ 


Paludhy Chatter- 21 Wellington Street,‏ .سوہ 
oo. ১ Calcutta.‏ 2 = 


No. 


of the provisions of 


۰ hief place of Additional 
ام‎ Name of the dealer. Address Tear وف‎ p دم‎ 
usinoess. 
1 2 4 
1 (8) Mahurilal Madania!l SBurnpur, district Burd- -۰ 
ما کر‎ Mobart- wan. 
2 (8) Messrs. Kalpataru. 226 Lagmari Road, Cal- oe 
vate Ltd., for Kal- cutta. 
pataru Ltd, 
৪) Messrs. Laurry & Co. 2618 Canal Circular Road, on 
(Private Ltd., ۶۸/۶ Calcutta. 
urry & 0০, Ltd. 


65C.T.—12th July 1956.—In 6ر‎ 
section 9 of the Bengal Finauce 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers whose registrations under the Act were 


Address and chief place of Additional No. and dateof Goods for use in manufacture or in 


registration the execution of contracts. 


cortiticate, 
6 


BH/2446A, (1) Raw matorials, 
29-6 66. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 


and accesso: 


(8) Consumable stores, viz,, mine- 
rals in crudo, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemnption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
0700 of the goods named 

OW سے‎ 


10071880181 mineral clays 
for sale. 


LR/2684A, bean 
8-7-6566. 

8L/2078A, "9 
25-0-66. 

(1) Raw matorials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 


8L/2070A, 
25-6-56. 


(8) Consumable stores, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
gales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
টা of the goods namcd 

elow :— 


Printed matter and 
blocks, 


8L/2080A, ee 
۔‎ 26-6-56. 


(1) Raw materials. 


BL/2082A, 
260. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax 15 claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 

ow کس‎ 


Printed matters 
(1) Raw materials. 


8/883, 
20-00. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories. 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intondod 
for use in the actual process of 
aan ufacturo of the goods named 

elow سس‎ 


Books. 
(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
oxemption from 204 of 
wales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
open of the goods named 

ow سے‎ 


SL/2984A, 
-6-56 ٠ 


Account books. 


81/2085۸, 
28-6-56. 


amended with effect from 


appearing in the different 


No. and date Goods for use in manufacture 
of regiatration or in the oxecution of the 
certificates. con 


AS/0654A, 
0-11-1048, 


004 
31-56-60. 


BDI/1702A, 


6-12-1049. 


Goods for 6۰ ۲ 


7 


Industrial minerals, ۹۷۱ 
sand and clays, pty bags, 


Tea and hardware. 


Photo-clne and process materials, 


Provisions and stores for ships, 


Chalke, maps, black-boards, pencils 
and a YS 


Stationery. 


Hardware, fron rods, jolsta, 98১০৫ 
tos sheets, angles. 


the date noted against 


each of them and in respect of the particulars 


columns in the 07 


indicated against such particulars are publishe 
for general information :— 


Date of 
۵۳ 
mont. 


Goods for resale 


eese 


90-0-56. 


2-0 


pe 11 


Name of the dealer. 


ba 


Ki. 


॥ সন Pree 26 D. L, Roy Street, 081. 
0 


td., for Kalika Preas 


॥ Messrs. Bisweswarlal & 


"| 


Messrs. India 8৪000‏ ؛ 
Agency.‏ 


. Express 
: جن‎ (78 


§ (8) Messrs. § Beharilal 
iprosad Exports 
Importe (Private) Ltd. 


for Mesars. Beharilal 
Beniprosad porta 
Importe Ltd. 


0 Hazarimall Chunilal .. 


0 8880) & Oo. ee 


1 Balebhoy Abedali 5, 


2 (8) The Behar Miscella- 


॥ ©) Ba Ram m Kumar Shiv- 
& Sons Pri- 


a um i for Ram 
Kumar Bhivehandral 
& Som, Ltd 


1 Ramawatar Rajkumar 


1b Seth Trading Co. ee 


1 বাথ Hiralal & Oo. .. 
|۳ 12060 Harakchand 


18 Muchand Hiralal 


THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Address arid chief place of ا‎ tlm ze and dato Goods for use in manufacture 


1150088۰ 
8 


MUA, 


(8) 187 Cotton Street, 
Calcutta for 12, Bans- 
tolla Gally, Caloutta. 


186 Cotton Street, 081 
cutta. 


Pro- 6 Kanulal Lane, Calcutta 


(8) 144 Cotton Street 
Calcutta for 16 Pagaya- 
putty Street, Calcutta. 


Baxirhat, district Cooch 
Behar. 


(8) 87616 Bowbazar 


Street, Calcutta for 
77 Chi ttaranjan Ave- 
nue, Caloutta. 

61 Canning Street, Cal- 
outta. 

249 Bowbagar Atreet, Cal- 
cutta. 

9111 Krishna 


ehari 
en Street, ARTE oi 


161/1 Harrison Road, 
alcutta. 


160 Cross Street, Calcutta 


86/1 Armenian ৪৮০৪৮, 
Jaloutta. 

26/1 Armenian Street, 
Oalcutta. 

35 Armenian Street, 
Calcutta. 


usiness. 


4 


27-06-66. 


27-86-66, 


27-0-0. 


27-6-56. 


2-7-0. 


22-0-0. 


23-0-0. 


20-0. 


20-0-60. 


22-6-56. 


25-6-56, 


25-0-54, 


Goods for resale. 
tration or in the execution of the 
certificates. contract. 
6 6 7 
oe (8) (1) Raw materinle—Pa টানি 
24-90-41, printing ink, type, blocks 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parta and শিপন 1 7 
(3) Consumable stores, 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sale tax ia claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture the goods named 
below ے:‎ 
Printed matters for 
8819. 
fil 
» print: 
Peper. and 7 رگ‎ 808:7 
by the purchasing dealer 
ae be required یگ‎ use in 
any process in the manu- 
facture of printing matters 
for sale. 
BDII 714A, eee ees0 
یوک‎ 
BDII/2614A, se (A) Gold, , allver, readymade 
5-2-55. garmenta 
made cloth, handloom cloth, 
woollen و‎ and anes ০০, paper 
bags and 
BDIT/2588A, amie (A) Glucose és 
17-8-54. 
৪) ৪555 وھ‎ 
৪০848, 
08 /2576A, 
14-83-55, 
OB/61A, ee0ee (D) Cloth, ১816৫ d, cement 
1-8-61. and iron : 
ees. ৪৪৩৩ وو واہ‎ 
18-7-55. 
CL/2008A, وو یاہ‎ Hemp producta. 
0-41. 
OL/ 8 ৪৪৪৪ درب‎ 
28-0-1. 
OL 161B, ৩৪৪৬ تر ری‎ 
ا‎ ; 
d 
CL/2644A, وو‎ (A) Drill and punching ma- 2-7-86. 
81-4-66. chine, kirlosker machine, 
window glasses, hessian 
moot pel Gay tage aad desiel 
engin braas, 
oa নন তি: وو‎ yarn, 
16-38-56. uttons, caustic soda, 
safety pins, toilet powder, 
woollen سیت‎ chinese blue 
and utlra- blue 
ion geo صد‎ Ripe و‎ thread 
and pruss tash, 
sewing blades. sis 
0811/4864, وو[‎ (D) General merchandise as 
24-90-41. and when required. 
ae Pr (D) General merchandise as 
28-09-41. ena when required for re= 
CSII/1602A, عو‎ (00) General merchandise as 
80-10-45. a when required for 


sas یں سی‎ ক 


৪ ol 
tishi oll, weighta an 
balances, sonapatti, glu- 
cose, lactosol, peuri for 
buildi pur 


dyes (for painting Dbuild- 
dhunia ig 
turpaulina, sandal wood 
hing, ae سی‎ wroot, 
soda-bicarb, kabab  chini, 


bac kari 
(ahells), kasis kiasmiaa, 
white 011, tikur, candl 
heasslan bags, #26 
raising floor joan, manakka, 


fron hinges, abir ira, 
foolscap paper, শাল না 


ur), পলাশ salt, دا‎ ۱ 
paper oontalner onga), 
gum, postadana, 


2854 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr 
Serial Name of the doalor, Address and chief placeof Additional No. and date Goods for use صا‎ manutacture Goods for resale. Date 
No. business. of of registration or in the execution of the amend. 

usiness. certificates. contract ment, 
1 2 8 4 6 6 7 8 
19 Gour Gobinda Stores... 11 Amratollg Stree wt 08751275654, weve A) Soap stone, powder, 28-6. 
রি Calcutta. = 18-2£-49, fe fire bricks, “fire ay, 54 
اہنت‎ iron ine ma- 
chines and parte. 
20 Mesars. Sewram Sushil 61 07088 Street, Calcutta 7 081۷/28414, نے‎ (A) Hessian and gunny bags. 4-7-50 
Kumar. 0-6-56. এ 
21 (9) Mesars. General Sup- 82 Cross Street, Calcutta দূ 047 ne وی‎ 6-7-56 
plies Private Lid. 18-6-55 : 
‘or Messers. Gencral 
upplies Ltd. 
23 ৭:70 Brothers 81187 as 7 7 ক noon (A) Typewriter machine ,, 37-86, 
28 Messrs. Associated 20 Mangoe Lane, Calouttea (A) 68, 8) 27 کم‎ 2 
40998801108 Ltd. Ganesh 2.7 8-06 
Chandra or 
Avenue, EL/1806A, 
Calcutta. 20-7-40. 
24 (8) Messrs. দির, Fy 28/24 Radha Darjecling EL/183B, (8) (1) Raw materials ৮৪০৪ 2,৮৩6 
Co. Street, Calcutta “a 17-6-62. : 
Goumtee fea 0 "Ltd. 661৫ boat 0 Office Street, (2) Plant, machinery, spare 
Calcu parts and acoesso: 
(8) Consumablo srores. 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
paymont of salos ie 
claimed are intended for use 
in the actual proceas of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below:— 
Tea. 
Sor 
Machineries, implementa, tea 
chesta, fertilisera, coal, fuel 
machines and kinds of of 
tea garden stores 
implements, 
And 
(1) Any other raw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
ہہ ساس تد‎ con- 
sumable stores. 
(8) Building or plumbin 
materia. سا ا کے‎ = 
016৫ سر یا پش‎ 
ال‎ টি or repair of any 
Certified oy the purchasin 
dealer to be ulred for 
in any process in the পরা 
facture of Tea for sale. 
Messrs. Senapati ےن‎ Belilious Road, HW-17A ৩৬৬৪ ৪৪৮ 4-0 
ella re (Private), owrah, es 26-09-41 
Jor 8 ti 
enapa 
Brothers., Ltd- 
26 Messre. Sree Durga 150 লন, Subhas Road, we HW-1223A, ৪৪৪৩ 0. I. ball beari রাড elt 4-7-56, 
Machinery Works. گا‎ : 20-32-00. shaft color, M. 8. 
کرس‎ screws, 
27 Messrs. New Asiatic 11 Watkins Lane, Howrah Calcutta-1 (8) RN ও (D) “Oo” cane 7-56. 
Hosiery Works. an 
~1510A, 
12-1-50, 
Mesars. Ranjit Tea Co. (8) 848 Netaji Subhas as HW-118B, rr নর &-7-56, 
5 Howrah, 22-2-2, 
221 Netaji Bubhas Road, 
20 — Sarkar Gupta & 154 Mahendra Bhatta- ie HW-1665A men 9ہ‎ 4-7-56. 
ا و‎ 1500 oherjee Road, Howrah. 6-10- 
Meaara. Sarkar Gupta 
& Co., Ltd. 
8 Measra. Nandikeah- গার Hier پوس راید‎ HW-1708A, ৪৬৩৪ eave 6-7-56. 
টা a Iron Foundry تہ‎ Pyro" سن‎ ۰9 
ہہ شی‎ How. 
or 
Messrs. Nandikeshwarl 
Iron Foundry, Ltd. 
Measars. Bholaram Jalpaiguri Town 7 ee JP-65A, sen এন সদা woollen and ۔ۂ5‎ 
81 দশ তিনি | 20-9-41, silken , umbrella and 
readymade garments. 
৪ Messrs. N. L.Sharma Oodlabari, post-office ea JP-1062A, ৪৪6৪৪ 25৪৪ ھ22‎ 
2০০ 4 Sons, Manabari, Jalpaiguri. 18-65-61. 
Jor 
Indoria Timber Worka, 
89 Messrs. Rameswarlal Hajganj, Jalpaiguri .. Hatkhola- JP-70B, ey jane 5-7-60. 
Brahmanand. Rajgan}, 4-2-50. 
Jalpaiguri. 
A) Din- z 
office ‘and 
district 
Jalpaiguri. 
84 Hazi Aniruddin Shaikh Jangipur, Gafurpur, ৬৪ ER-578A, inne (D) Markin chintz, dhuti, 8-1-0 
00818109090. 1 10-11-45. যা khadder, ৪0171, 
uD 


: ০ ales coat- 


ing and ne 
goods, b 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 289) 


یتسس سس سس سے ےج سے میسو ج ےیور سے سس سے ےے سس رس ےج مرح رے جس سرت سم سس سسجت مسج سم سس سے سے ج :دس جج سے سس کس ےسب جس سے سے کات س١سج‏ وی سمش سسجت سے سے লস‏ 


serial Name of the dealer, وت‎ and chief pluceuf ھ1٤٤‎ No. and date Goods for use In manufacture 30008 for resale. Date of 
No. مد .08ا‎ of of registration or in the execution of the amend- 
usiness. certificates. contract. mont. 
1 2 ۵ 4 5 6 7 8 
ہو‎ Haz! Mohd. Idris . Ghafurpur, post-office ae KR-1106A, eee (A) Hoslery goods and ready- 8-7-56. 
Jangipur, Murshidabad. 16-8-50. made garmenta. 
86 Kundu & Oo, .. 12B Netaji Subhas Road, ik LR-2677A, eve (A) Casein, dextrine and Iron 28-6-66. 
Calcutta. 16-6-66. materials. 
ہو‎ (8) Zeedonial Industries 20 Strand Road, Calcutta an LR-2606A, heme কতক 20-6-56. 
(India) তি Ltd., 20-7-66. 
Zeedontal Industries 
(India), ىآ‎ 
$8 Benson & Oo. ve و‎ re de ons Bange, Caloutta 72 LR-2868A, ০৩৪৪ (A) M. 8. round oe 20-6-56, 
t floor) 12-12-52. 
$9 National Engineering 20 سا‎ Subhas Road, ee LR-26765A, cove a ا‎ for boiler, belting 2%0-6-56, 
Syndicate. .. Calcutta. 12-0-0. 1 kinds), packing Sine 


la bol nuta, 
and "electric ma 


89 (8) Gd. B. Ghosh & Co. 24 Strand Road, Caloutta ee LRB-1780A, ৪6৪৬ গজ ও ৪.7-86, 
(Private), Ltd, 8-8-4909. 
G. B. گ0‎ & Co., Ltd. 
41 (8) Hardware & Mill 90 শালী Bxchange Place, a LRB-1010A, eee ৪৩৪৩ 8-7-66. 
oe (Private), Calcutta. 20-6-50. 
for 
Hardware & Mill 
8১০৩৪ Ltd. 
42 (8) Mashinerles 23 Strand Road, Oaloutta as LR-2232A, ۰ ৬৪৩ eens .778ھ‎ 
۱ ores اڈ‎ uta. 18-8-52, 
266 & Stores, 
Ltd. 
48 (8) 8০০6৮ & Saxby Obartered Bank Build- টি 14007188658, টিটি ھ8‎ 6-72.56, 
(Private), Ltd., ings, Oaloutta. 27-0-1۰. 
Boott bs Saxby, Ltd. 
88 (8) G. K. Mitter & Co, ৪) 14 Netaji Subhas Pe LR-24914A, ones wax 67-56, 
®) or ‘ Road, 186 ےا‎ Calcutta, 11-8-51. 2 
ও. K. Mitter. 
Couritarcial Buildings, 
Icutta. 
46 م6‎ “Jhabarmal Daru- Vishnupur, Bankura .. ee ও eene ہہ‎ 8786. 
۰ Daruka, 
Prop.: J habormall 
Daruka.’’ 
46 (8) ৪. K. ا‎ i Co. 6 Manmatha  Bhatta- থা /10868, eee ৪৪৪৬ 8-7-56, 
(Private), L cherjee Street, x“ 27-1-4. 1 : / 
Oaleutta. 
8. K. Mitra & ات‎ Ltd. 
4? 08) Baldeoram Sali- 61 Strand Road, Caloutta ee oe 2140A, ৪55৬ ৪৪৪৬ 8-7-56. 
gram (Private), Ltd. 11-52, 
or 
Baldeoran Saligram, 
Led. 
@ (8) 7১. 0. Ghosh & Co. 19B Rani Branoh Road, - 8171/24424۸, sane ৪৩৪৬ 9.7-66. 
(Pri rate), Ltd., Caloutta. 12-6-6, 
P. 0, Ghosh & Oo., Ltd. ৬ 
49 The Popular Drug 4 Bhupendra ee Ave- sa Corn- 8H/1560B, (A) QQ) Raw materials se onus 8-7-56, 
House, Ltd. nue, Calcutta wallis 16-4-0 (2) Plant, machinery, spare 
Street. parts and accessories. 
(3) Conaumabie stores, viz., 
drugs, medicines, 
Provided that for which 
exemption from payment 
of sales tax is claimed are 
intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ت‎ of the goods named 
OW سے‎ 
৪) Serving of prescription 
€ ne sale. 
ن۷ا‎ Mesers. Panda Brothers 7 Chittaranjan Avenue, sii SL/2117A, টি (0) Condensed milk 6. 
(Private), Ltd. 0. 46865, 38-0-56. 
tL Messrs. Radice & Oo, 7 OChittaranjan Avenue, as SL/2844A, rey (A) M. 8. flats a d 25-6-56, 
(India), Ltd. Caloutta. 26-4-6. corrugated ted sheets ০8 : 
 Mesars. Jyoti Motor P30 Mission Row Eixten- (D) Cal (8)S8L/2077A, esas ৮৪ 28-0 
Stores, sion, Caloutta-1, outta-l. or 
8L/105B, 
4-8-47. rf 
63 وہ‎ : Mercantile (8) 1 Cee سو‎ 7 )8( 81/2981۸, ৪৪৩ jens 85-6-56, 
enc uglicate. are, aloutta, 
22 sr ieee TL/1902A, 
714 772 Road, 16-4-64. 
Caloutta. 
4 (8) Barus کی‎ 128A Dharamtolla Street, ০০ 8/۸, avee onan 26-6-56. 
(Private), L Calcutta. 27۶9-41, 
0৮ 
86881, 
Lia Barua Bakery, 
68 (8) Movers, Barna Art 128A Dharamtolla Street, .. 8L/1866A, pa mone 26-6-56. 
Press (Private), Ltd., Calcutta. 81-1-0, 
Messrs.” Berua A 
Press, Ltd, 7 
۹ا‎ (8) ও, 9696188৩ 71 Ganesh | Chandra 7 BL37204, 2 ol 26-6-B6. 
نی‎ (Private), Avenue, ٥81۰۱ ۰ا‎ 1-8-54, 
Moura on Indu 
a ৪৮ 
6s, Ltd. 7 
67 (৪) Megs 
are. Gossaln & 7/1 Grant Lane, Calcutta * S8L/2287A, ৬০৬ cose 26-6- $6. 
ye ہی‎ (Private), ‘ 14 ٠ : 


Mears’ G Gossain & Co, 


2800 


Aerial 
No, 


61 


64 


65 (8) 


Explanatory notes.—Regarding 


Nauie of the dealor. 


(8) Messrs. Fine Walk 
0 Ltd., 
‘or 


Messrs. Fine Walk. 


Messrs. Luxmi Soap 


Factory. 


Mesars. Meghani Motors 


Messrs. Gluconate, Ltd. 


(8) Mosars. M. C. Sarkar 
& Sons (Private), 


ری 


jor 


Mesars. M. 0. Sarkar & 
Sona, Ltd 


rot 68818. Mondal 
শন & Oo. (Pri- 


go 
Messrs. Mondal Brothers 
& Co., Ltd. 


8) Banshidhar Agar- 
۱ wal a & Co. (Private), 


Banshidhar A wala 
& Co., Ltd. وی‎ 


Messrs. Colgate Pal- 
molive (India) (Pri- 
سو‎ Me 


essrs. Colgate Pal- 
molive (India), Ltd. 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Addrous and chief place of اعوم 0م‎ No. and dato 010৫8 for use in manufacture Goods for resale. Date of 
business. lace of of registration or in the execution of the amend. 
usiness. certificates. contract. ment 
8 4 ٦ ۵ 7 8 
182 Dharamtolla Street, re 8/4, خی ا‎ ٠ 
Calcutta. 5-38-61. +2 
207/1 Upper Circular Road, ‘ 8/2681, یو‎ (A) Fine and heavy chemicals 27-0-66 
Calcutta. 10-48. 
8) 21 Prince Street, SL 21678, eves ৪৪৩৬ শর 
۱ Caloutta, ss 18 PL. سوا‎ 
or 
pst Mission Row Exten- 
sion, Oalcutta. 
(9) 70A Princep Street, de 8/6164۰. নিস 
Caloutta, 27-09-41. 27-6-56, 
Jor 
185 Princep Street, 
Calcutta. 
14 Colle 8 116, Cal. ee 8L/208A, ৬৬৪৬৪ ৬৬৪৬৬ e 
caren : 26-90-41, oe 
6418 Colle 8 mare, ee ت8‎ 978, ৪৪৪৪ eee e 
7 Calcutta 7 ۹ ا‎ এ مد‎ 
Bichallipatti, Chander- as SP/1018A aves waa 66, 
বস Hooghly. 14088: এ i 
76 Lower Oircular Road, TL/1566A, ৬৬৪৩ ৪৬৪৬ 2-7-66, 
Calcutta, wi 31-83-47, 
the amend- culars of a registration have been amended :— 


ments made, the following Code letters have been 
used to indicate the manner in which the parti- 


No. 66C.T.—12th July 1956.—In pursuance of 
the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and 
dealers together with a description of the 


Seria! 
No. 


i 


2 Popular Supply Stores 22B Badridas Temple 


Name of the dealer. 


B. Banerjeo & Co. .. 


Address and chief place 
of business. 


Assanaol, district 
Bardwan. 


Street, Calcutta. 


addreases of registered 


gand ۹ 


encanta ۹8‏ یم 
نے سی 


8৫801601071 No. and date 


মি of of registration 
uslness certificate. 
4 6 
৬৬ ,44ھ‎ 
وا‎ 
টি وا‎ 


(A) means “Add’’, 
(D) means “Delete’’. 
(S) means “Substitute’’, 


covered by their registration certificates whose 
registrations under the 
effect from the date noted against each of them 
ate published for general information :— 


Act were cancelled with 


Goods for use in manufac- 


ture or صا‎ the execution 


of con 


Goods for resale, Date of 
cancel- 
a” ॥ lation 
7 8 
001 and timber and এপ 47-56 
merchandise as and when 
required. 
Confeotionery, সন ০] 
provisions, toll tollet ৪০০৫৪, 
acids, gg’ নিস, fine 
chemicals, ciectrical goods, 


apparatus,‏ سو بري22۵) 


hardware 
cle bottles and ছে, 
infi اط‎ insecticide, 
‘oun hosiery, 
soap and 0... 


part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2857 


a |‏ سے 


Additional No. and dato Goods for use in manufac- 


eis Name of the dealer, Address and chief place aceof of registration ture or In the execution Goods for resale. Date of 

Wo. of 01881116588. usiness. certificate. of contracta, cancel- 

lation. 

2 8 4 6 6 7 8 
Measrs Sheoprasad 0/1 Ramkumar-Rakhit a BDII/2288A, myn Gunnics, hossian, other jute 4-7-6060 
Liladhur. Lana, Calcutta. 20-4-51. products and sugar. 

4 Chandramati Dasi and Katwa, district Burdwan 7 BN/85A, এন All sorts of 21৭৩ goods made 8-7-56 

others. 24-09-41. by mill and handloom, all 


sorts of textile goods, all 
sorts of woollen goods, ৪118 
goods and artificial allk 
. سی‎ garments and 

are mado of hosiery 
goods, umbrella, 911 cloth, 
rubber cloth, stationery 


goods, 01892596668 
tobacoo. 
§ Export Import Trad- 654A Zakaria Streot, ৪৪ OL/2494A, rer General merchandise 8৪ and 28-0-0 
ing Co., Ltd. Oaloutta. 4-4۰. when required and certified 
by the purchasing dealer 
for resale. 
t Bengal Soctety 87/2 College Street, ee OL/786A, সির Stationery, 51677٣۰ perfumo- 5-7-56 
: বা & Hoslery (152 9-41. ry, tranks, suitcases, oilman 
Stores, Ltd. 8 end general ter- 
chandise as and when 
certified by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
۱ : resalo, piece goods. 
1 
Ranglal 94 Lowor Chitpur Road, ক CSI/2864A, came Textiles ar ik 20-0-6 
٠ کب سس‎ ae Calcutta. 15-5-658., 
RamchanGra Abir 87 Armenian Street, ক 08171122688, see Manihari goods, plastic pow- 27-6-56 
: শপ و‎ Calcutta. 29-0-00, der an سس‎ toiletries 
and stationery goods, alumi- 
blum wares, 6 throad, 
provisions, hair 0118 and 
cocoanut oils, enamel 
products and crockeries. 
6 Messrs. Jalan apd 180 #£=Harrison Road, ৬৬ 081۷/18154۸۰, re Piece goods and paper, tea 2-7-56 
Jalan. Calcutta. 19-7-50. waste, toa. 
10 Messrs. Indo Tea Co. 42 Stand Boad, Oal- ov CSIV/1350A, بی‎ Tea and general merchandise 5-7-56 
outta. 81-1-47. as and when required for 
resale. 
ll Mesars Kunjabala P.O. Krantihat, Jalpaiguri. oe JP/1124A, ১৩৪৩ Tobacco leaves a 2-7-56 
Biswas. 4-0-61. 
18 Messrs Kanalyalal 2.0-۰ Krantihat, Jalpaiguri. ee 38/178۸, হর Cloth, stationery, aalt, cereals, ہن‎ 
Ghisalal. . 2 8-10-41. pulses, birt, cigarettes, si 
match, gur, sugar hard- 
ware, apices (kirana), 
07ت‎ (provision), flour, 
rosene, cocoanut oil, 
agricultural implements 
tobacco leaves, mustard 
seeds and tea. 
13 Messrs Rahut Eetate Jalpaiguri town. os JP/228A Wood, ropes, s fron Firewood, wood of all kinds 2-7-56 
Trading Department 21528 এ chai A, 02০5) for : 
“B”, manufacture of logs, 
lanks, scantlings, sleepers 
for sale. 3 
14 Mesars dalal Jalpaiguri town. 5 10194, Biri leaves,” biri tobacco, Biri 0 2-7-56 
“ao 7 11-12-51, therad and A and B for 
manufacture of biri for 
sale. 
9 Messrs Kall Saha Kechuadanga, Sikarpur, ae ER/1478A, ee Spices, mustard 011, cocoanut 6-7-56 
2 Nadia. ٠ ۲ 4-12-61, oil, molasses, salt, ropes, 
tobacco, tea, 1 09, 
betel-nutsa, soap, anda, 
enamel utensils, brags 
utensils, atationery, hard- 
ware, paper, thread. 
1 Manshankar & 00,  .,. 205 Old  OChinabazar oe LB/1284A, even Glass wares, enamel wares, 4-7-56 
Street, Calcutta. 14-38-46. aluminium wares, ৩0০ 
keries and potrol lamp 
parts. 
1 Tractor 80808 & Co. 2 Clive Ghat Street, ae 1034, ঝর ও Tractor, sapre parts and 5-7-56 
Calcutta. 26-56-53. implementa of machineries, 
mine stores, beltings, engi- 
nes, hardware materials, 
8 لیے‎ Bikrampur 188 09119819518 Road, এর BL/2281A, ine Bamboo, darma, mat and 56۔8۔27‎ 
Mulibash Karsalaya, Calcutta. 17-11-54. babmoo made miaterials, 
waterproof paper, galva- 
nised wires, nails, ropes, 
wooden planks. 
0 ×ز‎ 
‘rs, Bengal Society 85/1 Lower Clroular ws TL/1561A, ےه‎ Millemado oloth ee 2-7-56 
و‎ : 8০৬৭, Caloutta. 28-6-51. 
سس‎ notes.—Regarding و[۱ہج''‎ for use in (B) Plant, machinery, spare parts, accessories 
1 Wacture or in the execution of contyacts’’ the and consumable stores. 
০ 108. code letters have bees used tq .8د‎ (0) Building or Planning materials or fixtures 
Meanings noted against 69013 ~ required for construction, fitting out or 
er raw materials, repair of any building. 


A, 0. BOY, Commissioner, 


2858 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Parr T 


w 


a ee 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 5871/M.1M-30/55.—1l0th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (3) 
of section 67A of the Kengal Municipal Act, 1982 
(Bengal Act XV of 1982), the Governor is pleased 
to make the following amendment in the CGovern- 
ment of West Bengal, Local Self-Government 
Department notification No. 437/M.1M-d0/55, 
dated the 14th January 1956 (hereinafter referred 
to as the said notification), namely :— 


Amendment 


In paragraph 2 of the said notification, in lines 
12 to 14, for the words, figures and brackets “by 
sections 129, 130, 186, 140, 141, 142, 164, 155 
except sub-section (3), 156, 157, 159, 160, 161, 
162 and 163 of the said Act”? substitate the words, 
figures and brackets ‘‘hy clauses (i), (11) and (ili) 
of sub-section (2) of section, 69 and by sections 93, 
112, 129, 130, 161, 136, 188, 140, 141, 142, 
154, 155 except sub-section (3), 156, 157, 159, 
160, 161, 162, 163, 178 and 189 of the said Act 
and the power of the said Commissioners to grant 
leave to their officera and servants under the rules 
framed by them in exercise of the power con- 
ferred on them by section 75 of the said Act”. 


No. 5931/M.1M-60/55.—10th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by the proviso to 
sub-section (1) of section 46 of the Bengal Muni- 
cipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 1932), the 
Governor is pleased to extend the period of thirty 
days by a period of six months for the purpose of 
election of Chairman by the Commissioners of the 
Hooghly-Chinsurah Municipality, in the district 
of Hooghly, elected at the general election held on 
the 11th March 1956. 


wy No. 6958/M.3R-28/56.—11th July 1960,-18 


exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) 
of section 312 of the Bengn] Municipal Act, 1939 
(Bengal Act XV of 1932), the Governor is pleased 
to declare that Schedule VI to the said Act shal] 
he in force in the Uttarpara Muniripality in th 
digtrict of Hooghly. 


$ No. 99891 81.:7-28106.--1168 July 1,[۔.10956‎ 
xercise of the power conferred hy sub-section (2) 
of section 312 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1939 
(Bengal Act XV of 1932), the Governor is pleased 
to extend the provisions of section 315, section: 
317 to $27 and section 329 of the said Act to the 
Uttarpara Municipality in the district of ITooghly, 


_ No, 6041/M.1M-142/55.—18th July 1996. 
is hereby notified under section 50 of the Benga 
Municipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 193%) 
that the following persons have been duly elected 
us Commissioners of the Khardah Municipality جز‎ 
the district of 24-Parganas at the general electior 
held on the 25th March 1956 :— 


Ward No. 1 
Shri Sushil Kumar Bandopadhay. 


Shri Gopal Chandra Bandyopadhyay. 

Shri Robindra Nath Mukhopadhya. 
Ward No, 2 

Shri Sridhar Bandyopadhyay. 

Shri Tarapada Ray. 

Shri Ajit al Mukhopadhay, 
Ward No. 3 

Shri Sriskisor Goswami. 

Shri Sunil Kumar Bandopadhyay. 
Ward No. 4 


Shri Amar Kumar Dewan. 


No. 6328M.2M-4/55.—20th July 1956.—In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Local Authorities Loans Act, 
1914 (IX of 1914), the Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 


ment in the Local Authorities Loans Rules, 1915, 


published with the 


(tovernment of India notification No. 1020A, dated the 10th November 1914, 


namely:— - 


Amendment. 


After rule 9 of the said rules, imsert the following rule, namely :— 


“9A. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the State 
Government may grant loan to a local authority on such terms 
and conditions und in accordance with such procedure, as it may 
deem fit, consistent with the provisions of the Act if it is satia- 
fied that the loan is required for the carrying out of any works 
referred to in clause (1) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
Act, which, in its opinion, are necessary in any area where there 
has been heavy concentration of displaced persons from East 
Pakistan, within the local limits, and subject to the control, 


of such local authority. 


Ezplanation.—In this rule, a “displaced person’? means a person, who 
was ordinarily resident in the territories now comprised in Kast 


Pakistan, but who, on account of civil 


disturbances or on 


account of the partition of India, has migrated— 


(a) in the case of persons migrating from the district of Noakhali 
or the district of Tipperah, now forming part of East Pakistan, 
on or after the lst October 1946, and 


(b) in the case of persons migratin 


from any other area in Kast 


Pakistan, on or after the lst June 1947, 


to the territories now included in the Union of India, with the intention of 
taking up permanent residence within such territories.” 


Part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


2869 


সপে লস এ উজ طعہ‎ প্রহসন ০ ৯ میم ڑھوے‎ 


Midnapore.—No. 65808/M.3R-14/56.—5th July 1956.—Whereas the 
provisions of Schedule VI to the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 (Bengal Act 
XV of 1932), have not been extended under section 312 of the said Act to 
the Ghatal Municipality in the district of Midnapore; 


And whereas the Commissioners of the said শি having heen 
so required by the State Government, have made the following by laws 
under sub-section (1) of section 328 of the said Act; 


Aud whereas the Commissioners of the said municipality have applied 
to the State Government for the confirmation of the said by-laws under 
section 506 of the said Act; 


And whereas— 


(a) a notice of the intention to apply for such confirmation of the said 
by-laws has been duly given one month before the making of the 
application for confirmation ag required by clause (1) of sub- 
section (2) of section 506 of the said Act, and 


(b) for one month before making of the application a copy of the said 
by-laws has been kept at the office of the Commissioners of the 
said municipality and has been open during office hours thereat 
to the inspection of the inhabitants of the said municipality, 
without fee, as required by clause (11) of sub-section (2) of 
section 506 of the said Act; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by section 506 of the 
anid Act, the Governor is pleased to confirm the following by-laws, namely :— 


BY-LAWS 


By-laws framed for the control of the erection of buildings and material 
alterations and additions to buildings within the Chatal Municipality as 
required by the Covernor of West Bengal under order No. 1030/M 3R- 
17/54, dated 8th February 1955, issued in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 328 of the Bengal Municipal 
Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV of 1932), 


1. Particulars to accompany application of erecting or re-erecting a 
masonry building.—Every person who intends to erect or re-erect a masonry 
building shall forward to the Chairman an application with a plan and 
specification of the building and a site plan of the land on which he pro- 
poses to make the erection or re-erection. In the said application he shall 
give a description of the building and its dimensions, and shall indicate the 
position of the site, the number assigned to it in the assessment book, its 
dimensions and such other particulars as may be required by the 
Commissioners. 


2. Floor of building used for manufacture and storage of articles for 
human consumption.—The floor of every masonry building intended to be 
used for the manufacture or storage of articles for human consumption shall 
be constructed of some impermeable materia] approved by the Commissioners, 


8. Building over muntctpal drain.—A masonry building shall امھ‎ 
extend over any municipal drain. 


4, Level of foor.—The lowest floor of every masonry building erected 
or re-erected from the ground shall be constructed at such level as will 
admit of the construction of a drain sufficient for the effectual drainage of 
the building, and placed at such level as will admit of the drainage heing 
led into an existing or projected municipal drain. 


5. Foundation.—Except with the sanction of the Commissioners, the 
foundation of a masonry building shall rest on natural ground. 


6. Plinth.—The plinth of a masonry building shall be at least two feet 
above the level of the centre of the nearest street; provided that the plinth 
of stables and cow-sheds need not be more than one foot above such level. 


٠٣. Walls in butlding exceeding one storey in height.—(1) If a masonry 
building exceeds one storey in height— 


(a) no part of any wall, other than a cornice or a moulding, shall over 
hang any part of a wall underneath it; and 


(b) every wall shall be of such thickness as the Commissioners may 
consider necessary to ensure safety, regard being had to the 
height of the building, the materials of which it is constructed 
a the purpose for which it is intended. 


(2) Nothing contained in sub-rule (1) shall prevent the erection of a 
second storey upon an existing masonry building, the walls of which are 
certified by the Commissioners as being able to bear the load proposed to 
be put upon them. 


2860 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


8. Interior courtyards and open spaces to be raised.—Every interior 
courtyard and every open space shall be raised at least one foot above the 
level of the centre of the nearest street so as to admit of easy drainage. 


9. Herght.—No masonry building exceeding fifty feet in height shall 
be erected without the special permission of the Commissioners. 


10. Stte-plan.—The site-plan sent to the Chairman under rule 1 shall 
be drawn to a scale of not less than one-fiftieth of an inch to a foot, shal] be 
sent in duplicate and shall show:— 

(a) the boundaries of the site and of any contiguous land belonging to 
the owner thereof; 

(0) the position, form and dimensions of privies, urinals, drains, cess- 
pools, stables, cattle-sheds, cow-sheds, wells and other appur- 
tenances of the building; 

(c) the space which it is proposed to leave about the building to secure 
the free circulation of air, the admission of light and access for 
scavengering purposes; and 

(৫) such particulars as may be required by the Commissioners, 


11. Building plan.—The plan of the building (and the elevations and 
sections, whenever necessary), sent to the Commissioners under rule 1, shall 
be neatly and accurately drawn to a scale of not less than one-eighth of an 
inch to a foot shall be sent in duplicate and shall show— 

(a) the depth and width of the foundation of the building; 

(b) the level of the lowest floor of the building; and 

(c) the level of all courtyards and open spaces in the building or 
premises and the plinth level of the building with reference to 
the level of the centre of the nearest street, 


12. Specifications.—The specifications sent to the Chairman with any 
such plan shall comprise full information as to the following particulars :— 
(8) the manner in which roof and house drainage and the surface 
drainage of the land will be disposed of; 
(iz) the means of access to service privies that will be available to 
acavengers; 


(£2) the means of ingress and egress if the building is intended to he used 
as a dwelling house for two or more families or as a place for 
carrying on any trade or business in which more than 20 peuple 
may be employed, or as a place of public resort; and 


(tv) such other particulars as may be required by the Commissioners, 


13. Signature of plans, elevations and sections.—The plan, elevations 
and sections referred to in rules 10 and 11 shall be signed clearly and in a 
prominent place by the ower of the وھ‎ or if he ig illiterate, by any 
other person authorised by him to sign in his behalf, in which case they 
shall be marked with the owner’s thumb impression. 


14. Chairman to sign approved plans.—The Chairman shall sign all 
passed plans in token of the approval of the Commissioners. 


16. Restriction on 21৮71500601 of certain rules.—Rules 1, 10, 11, 12, 19 
and 14 shall not-be applied in the case of any alteration of, or addition to, 
a masonry building, unless one or more of the following works is under- 
taken, namely سے‎ 


(a) the construction of a roof or an external or party-wall ; 


(b) any repairs to the building which involve the reconstruction of a 
masonry wall after the same has been entirely or in a great part 
demolished ; 


(c) the closing of any door or window in an external wall; 
(0) the construction or removal of an internal wall or partition ; 


(6) any other alteration of the internal arrangements of a building 
which affects its courtyard or courtyards, or its drainage, venti- 
lation or sanitary arrangements or which affects its security ; 


(f) the addition of any building, room, outhouse or other structure ; 

(9) the roofing of any space adjoining a wall or building; and 

(h) the alteration of a building for the purpose of effecting a partition. 

16. The penalty for the infringement of any of the by-law Nos. 2 to 
9 shall be— 

(a) a fine not exceeding Rs. 60, and 


(b) in the case of a continuing infringement, a و‎ fine not exceedin 
Ra. 56 for each day after written notice of the offence is serve 


by the Commissioners, 


[Parr 1 


part I) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2861 


——————e————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 


No. 5940-L.8.-G.-4P-1 /56.—11th July 1956.—In pursuance of section 6 of the Cattle Trespass Act, 1871 (I of 1871), the Governor 
ور‎ pleaaod to appoint the persons Mentioned in column 3 of the achedule heroto to be pound-keopers for the pounds 1n tho distnot of 


(oooh 13019 and for the poriods respectively mentioned im columns 2 and 4 of that schedule : 


SCHEDULE 
80791 Name of pound. Name and address of pound-keeper Period of appointment. 
No. for 1956-57. 
1 এ 3 4 
Sadar Subdivision 
1 Dhumpur سے‎ -» Md. Abdul Mia, son of late Chemru Mie, village Ist April 1856 to 91986 March 1957. 
Barapak. 
2 Mowamari we «» Md. Hossain, son of late ا مل‎ Sandua Mia, village Ditto. 
Chhoto Atharakotsa. 
3 Dowanhat ee -« Gaur Chandra Bamk, son of late Nanglu Bhusan Ditto. 
Banik. 
4 Pundibari oe es Jamed Al: Khan, son of late Amirali Khan, village Ditto. 
Kalarayarkut.. 
6 Daneswar ve .. Baikary Dubey, son of late Ganu Dubey, village Ditto. 
.0۰ھ‎ 
6 Choto Nalengibari.. **০ Md. Ajabuddin Sarkar, son of late Mantajuddin Sar- Ditto. 
kar, village Chhotonalangibari. 
1 Baldibati ৬৪ .. Pagla Das, eon of late Sundra Hari Das, village Ditto. 
\ Chapagur1. 
8 Kantamari oe - Jagiruddin Mia, son of late Naziruddin Mia village Ditto. 
Hastabudkasaldanga. 
9 Rashidanga - .. Meheruddin Mia, son of Aimuddin Mia, village Bara Ditto. 
Elajan. 
10 Chilkihat $s .» Akbarali Pramanik, son of late Achharuddm Pramank Ditto. 
11 Kholta ** we .. Chitta Ranjan Reha, son of late Bharat Chandra Raha, Ditto 
village Kholta. 
12 Khapaidanga ax .. Sushil Chandra Ray, son of late Kalicharan Ray, Ditto. 
village Khapaidanga. 
18 Rakhalmeri ak .. Sutuddin Mia, son of late Asharu Mia, village Sibpur Ditto. 
Rakhalmar1. 
14 Smghimari Pachunirpar . Md. Mahiuddin Mia, son of late Dhopra Mua, village Ditto. 
Singhiman: Pachunirpar. 
10 Mahishbathan -7 . Abdulkuddus, son of late Kashimuddin Ahmed, Ditto. 
village Panusala. 
16 Ambart ০১ 7 Alladin Mia, son of late Khedesa Mis, villagg Ambari Ditto. 
17 Layakerhat 5 .. Nisamuddin Mia, son of late Samsul Hazi, village Ditto. 
Sibpur. 
18 Khanja Fuleswari .. Md. Fazlay Rahaman, son of late Sadi Mahammad, Ditto. 
village Rashidanga, Part II. 
۱8 Doderhat ۳ ۰. Rahimuddin Mia, son of late Rabibulla Mia, village Ditto. 
Doderhat. 
2) Tapurhat 7 ۔‎ Md. Hamf ٠ me ক ৮৬ Ditto. 
Dinhata Subdivision 
! Vhowdhurir Hat oe Akbarali Bepari of Jaigirbalabari ve .. Ist April 1956 to 3let March 1957, 
2 Gobrasara as OQsmangan: Mua, Kharyadakurhat oe oe 100, 
؟‎ Gosanimari . Kesharuddin Bepan, Bhitarkamta a 7 Ditto. 
4 Sahebganj : .. Jahiruddin Bepari, Sahebgan) ৪ 7 Ditto. 
5 Shoulmari . Abdul Ali Bopari, Shoulmari .. ৮৪ we Ditto. 
8 Sitai me a .. Akbarali Mea and othtrs, Sita: Bandar .. 7 Ditto. 
7 Adabari .. -7 Mahesh Chandra Patawan, Kishamat Adaban a Ditto. 
8 Gitaldaha Boyzar Rahaman and othors, Gitaldaha .. ee Ditto. 
9 Kurala .سط‎ ন্‌ . Kismat Ali Beparn, Karala_.. oe oe Ditto. 
10 Shewti 1 - Md. Badaruddin Mia, Sowt: II -۰ নি Ditto. 
11 Jas idharla .. Abdulsattar Mia, Daribash ৭০ <a wa Ditto. 
12 Barthar .. 5 ۰. صنكلاق مصسطعہ‎ Sheikh, Barthar ae ee Ditto. 
18 Dragram-CGobrasara 7 Baharuddin Bepar, Nandina .. oe os Ditto. 
14 Lhotaguri e .» Mangal Dubey, Bhetagur.. 5 ৪ ee Ditto. 


2862 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Name of pound. 
2 

Borodanga oe 
Kawrai .. oe 
Matalerhat এ 
Bairagirhat a 
Dighaltari -٦۰ 
Panaguri ٠ oe 
Kuchni II ee 
Kalmati .. ٤ 
Mallirhat .. = 
Barosoulmari os 
Tharaikhana ee 
Salmara 7 
Pakihaga oe 
Balarhat .. oe 
Ichhaganj সা 
Giladanga ws 
Pekihaga a 
Shibpur .. oe 
Ghoksadanga 7 
Retherdanga ‘> 
Singijani 

Rangamati ae 
Nishigan; ve 
New Changrabandha 
Akrarhat 7 
Moronga রি 
Kheti we 7 
Bakehirhat 7 
Kashiabari : * 
Baraibari ee 
Falturhat 7 
Joresimuli a. 
Buraburi Shiberhat .. 
Gopalerhat 

Sitalkhuchi 

Dhallerpar 

Amtala .. ae 
Garkhola 7 
Nalgram .. ক 
Sangerbari ee 
Sarbeswur Joyduar .. 
Gatamari - 
[1108 ہ.‎ oe 
Dhalaguri aa 


Gour liairagir Hat... 
Tokafanda 
Jatemari we 


Name and address of pound-keeper 
for 1956-57. 
3 
Abdur Rahaman, Boradanga .. i 


Sri Krishna Singh, Bhetaguri Bandar... 
Nachimuddin Bepari, Nagar Shyamsingh 


Moslamuddin Sarkar, Baranachina 7 
Lalit Barman, Dighaltari 

- Moslemuddin Putwari, Andaram Singimari 
Sri Krishna Singh, Bhotaguri ve 
Md. Hanifuddin Sarkar, Kuchni II - 
Saritulla Mia, Dashiarchhara .. a 
Chhaman Ali Sheikh, Low Chapra - 
Mantazuddin, Chhota Natabari 7 
Kapildeo Dubey, Barasoulmari 
Md. Badaruddin Mia, Shewti I ui 
Rambilash Chowdhury, Salmara -7 
4১051580417 04555100019 ہ.‎ হর 


Mathabhanga Subdivision 


Sadananda Ray, Nelangibari .. on 
Dai Barman, Asokbari কর 7 
Harendra Karman, Giladanga 7 
Della Mia, Pakibaga ee 7 
Sirajuddin Ahmed, Fhibpur .. 7 


Sanguram Sohani, Ghoksadanga Bandar .. 
Afsarali Mia, Abag Ratanpur .. a 


Ggni Mia, Singijani 


Umarali Mia, Dowaguri দঃ os 
Amirali Mia, Kodalkheti i" ও 
Jatindra Nath Karman, Barosoulmari 

Heyal Mia, Sildanga 7 7 


Jalaluddin Mia, Rangapani Balashi 7 
Krishna Kanta Roy, Keyet of Kheti 
Chalbhola Barman, Nabinerdola oe 
Khijendra Barman, Kaashiabari 
Kedaruddin Bastadar, Angerkata Paradubi 
Sanguram Chowdhury, Ghoksadanga ae 
Lalit Mandal, Joresimuli ee an 
Subedar Progad, Panigram .ہے‎ oe 
Rem Nagina Singh, Gopalpur 

Karimbakas Mia, Golonahati .. 

Khybar Ali Mia, Abuarpathar 


Aramuddin Mia, Baramaricha ٠7 


Paresh Chandra Deb Nath & others, Baragodaikhora 


Fairnuddin Mia, Nalgram + 7 
Benoy Bhusan Ray, Sangerbari ee 
Kedar Hossain Mia, Rajaram Joyduar.. 
Saharuddin Mia, Golenshati .. ws 
Probhat Barman, Fulbari 25 

Bangru Mia, Dhalaguri ৯৪ ৬ 
Dhora Chowdhury, Gopalganj 7 


Muktaruddin Mia, Souderbash 
Khokaram Harman, Jatamari ve 


[Parr ] 


Poriod of appointment, 


4 


lat April 1956 to 9186 March 1057, 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


Ist April 1956 ৮০ 3let March 571 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto, 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


Ditto. 


TR ASD RR সু সা উস 


eon (লারা سب جب‎ লি পাপা 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDHAN, Jt. Secy. 


2863 


Sorial Name of pound. Nate and address of pound-keeper Period of appointment. 
for 1966-57. 
] 2 3 
Tufanganj Subdivision 
1 Natabari .. oa Sri Solemali Mia, Natabari.. lat April 1956 to 3186 Maroh 1957. 
2 Maruyanj Sri Mukdoo Singh, Fulbari ہے‎ Ditto. 
3 Chikliguri ti Sri Sarju Chowdhury, Dhalpal Ditto. 
4 DBalabhut 7 Sri Samaruddin Vepari, Krishnapur Ditto. 
6 Singimari 7 Sri Janak Singh, Singimnari.. Ditto. 
6 Chilakbana <a Sri Subuddim Mia, Chilkhana Ditto. 
" Salbari.. 7 Sri Kanai Chowdhury, Dhalpal Ditto. 
8 Dhadial .. = Sri Kalimuddin Bepari, Dwipappar Ditto. 
| Mahiskhuchi 7 Sri Francawar Barman, Mahiekhuchi Ditto. 
10 Debagram 7 Sri Sabdal Bepari, امعصةاڈ‎ ১, Ditto. 
10 Baxirhat .. Sri Sambhu Chowdhury, Raxirhat Ditto. 
: Balarampur <x Sri Joysree Chowdhury, Fulbari Ditto, 
32 Nasiran Denti Kheti .. Sri Janak Singh, Singimari .. Ditto. 
14 Falimari .. ye Sri Kartic Chowdhury, Falimari Ditto. 
15 Jhaukuthi 4 Sci Mohan Chowdhury, Singimari Ditto. 
16 Santoshpur وخ‎ Sri Abdul Jabbar, Santoshpur Ditto. 
17 Rasik Bil 7 Bri Mohan Chowdhury, Singimari Ditto. 
18 Bilsi He 7 Sri Sambhu Chowdhury, Bilsi Ditto. 
19 Kaljanirpar ee Sri Sumaruddin Bepari, Krishnapur Litto. 
20 Krshnapur = Sri Sumaruddin Bepari, Krishnapur Ditto. 
21 Whelakoba ٠ .. Sri Gouri Sankar Chowdhuri, Balarampur Ghat ee Datto. 
22 Gopelerkuthi = Sri Sumaruddin Bepari, Krishnapuc ve 1% Ditto. 
23 Aisani Chitralia oe «> 8m Kartic Chowdhury, Falimari - a Ditto. 
Mekligan] Subdivision 
1 Changrabandha ٠ Rambachan Shaha ٠ lat April 1956 to 31st March 1957. 
2 Ranirhat .. 7 Sailendra Mohan Ghosh ৮৪ Ditto. 
3 Kuchlibari ae Gazitulla Mahammad 7 Ditto. 
4 85795101815 ve Fousdar Prosad Saha es Ditto. 
5 Jharingheoswar ae Aniiruddin 7 7 Ditto. 
6 Sarohati .. 7 Bhabendra Nath Barman ve Ditto. 
7 Dangarhat Dadhiram Saha... we Ditto. 
8 Dhulia_.. 7 Sailendra Mohan Ghose i Ditto. 
8 Tista Nadir, Payasti Bhabendra Nath Barman 7 Ditto. 
10 Kotbhajni 7 Reyazuddin Mahammad ۰٠ Ditto. 
11 Kajaldighi 7 Balaram Ray ৪ ৩ ee Ditto. 
12 Buxigan] .. es Kachimuddin Sarkar and others Ditto. 
13 Dewanganj - Sahajuddin Sarkar ws Ditto. 
14 Dahalakhagrabari.. Mafizuddin Mahaininad ne Ditto. 
15 Duilchata = Bachiruddin Sarkar বৃ Ditto. 
16 Hemkumari - Jitondra Nath Ray = Ditto. 
17 Jharsingheswar Fari .. Aftabali Muhammad ٠ Ditto. 
18 Nijnarof Fari Dadhiram Saha .. - Ditto. 
1) Payasthi Fari 7 Jitendra Nath Kay ٦ Ditto. 


2864 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 6 


[Parr ] 


MEDICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
DEPARTMENT 


Medical 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Midnapore.—No. Med]. /5287 / Admn. / Medl. / 
Katt. /1A-6/56.—10th July 1966.—The Governor 
is pleased to grant Dr. Anil Kumar Koleh, M.B., 
]).1+.11.) T.D.D.(Cal.), of the West Bengal Medical 
and Health Service, Resident Medical Officer, 
M. R. Bangur T.B. Sanatorium, Digri, district 
(Midnapore, earned leave for 15 (fifteen) days with 
effect from the 17th June 1906 or any subsequent 
date from which the leave is availed of, under 
ae 2 of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
‘Part ۰ 


Caicutta.—No. 18601. 5295/D.H.S. /1S-120 /56.— 
10th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to grant 
Ir. Saurindra Mohan Chakravorty, M.B., D.G.O., 
۶ہ‎ the West Bengal Medical and Health Service, 
last employed 04 Registrar, Midwifery Depart- 
ment, Nilratan Sircar Medical College Hospital, 
Calcutta, extraordinary leave for a further period 
from the Ist May 1956 up to the 81۵۲ July 1956 
under rule 174(1)(a) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Vart I, in extension of the leave pranted to 
him under notification No. Medl. { 930/D.H.S. /15- 
143/55, dated the 8th February 19956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


যাহ 


Public Health 


i NOTIFICATION. 
No. P.11./2410/2A-24/55.—29th June 1996.— 


In exercise of the power conferred نا‎ section 9 
of the Prevention of Food Adulteration7Act, 1954 
(37 of 1954), read with rule 8 of the Prevention 
of Food Adulteration Rules, 1955, the Governor, 
is pleased hereby to appoint the persons specified 
in column 1 of the schedule below, who have no 
financial interest in the manufacture, import or 
sale of any article of food and who possess the 
qualifications specified against each in column 2 
of the said schedule, to be Food Inspectors for 
the purposes of the said Act, and assign to such 
Food Inspectors the Jocal areas specified in the 
corresponding entries in eolumn 3 of the said 
schedule within which such 1000. Iuspectors uhall 
exercise their powers : — 


The Schedule 


Persons. Qualifications. Local areas. 
(2) (2) (3) 
Shri Anath Nath Poassesses qualifications The area 


prescribed by the comprised in 
Inspector, District Government of West the Dainhat 
Board of Burdwan, Bengal for appoint- Municipal- 
Katwa Hoalth Cir- Ment as Sanitary ity. 


Mukherjee, Sanitary 


cle. Inapector. 

Shri 8. N. Guha Roy, Ditto The area 
Sanitary Inspector, comprised in 
Uttarpara Municipe- the Uttar- 
lity. para Muni- 

cipality. 
Bankura.—No. PH. /2539/31,-23/56.—10th 


July 1956.—The Governor was pleased to grant Dr. 
Tejendra Nath Guha Roy, M.B., D.T.M., Medica! 
Officer, Gouripur Leprosy Colony, Bankura, earned 
leave for fourteen days from the 9181 January 1946 
to the 13th February 1956 under rule 168(1) of 
the West Bengal Service Rules, Part J. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF WORKS AND BUILDINGS 
Establishment 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 42.—14th July 1956.—Shri Tulsi Madhah 
Das, Assistant Engineer on probation, is confirmed 
on; the expiry of the period of his probation, in his 
appointment in the West Bengal Engineering 
Service, with effect from the 2lst N দীন চি 1955, 


No. 43.—14th July 1956.—The Governor ig 
pleased to appoint the following temporary 
Mechanical Assistant Engineers, the names being 
indicated in order of seniority, who are now on 
deputation to the Development (1008) Depart- 
ment, substantively to the posts of Mechanical 
Assistant Engineer in the Mechanical Division, on 
probation for two years, in the West Bengal 
মা Service, with effect trom the 13th March 


(1) Shri Prodyot Kumar Sen. 
(2) Shri Jibananda Ghosh. 


2. On substantive appointment, the officers will 
continue to remain on deputation to the Develop- 
ment (Roads) Department, until further orders. 


No. 44.—14th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint the persons named below as 
temporary Assistant Engineers under the Depart- 
ment of Works and Buildings, with effect from the 
dates on which they join the appointments, and 
until further orders ;: — 


(1) Shri Rabindra Kumar 
Shri Susil Kumar Sett. 

(2) Shri Ajit Kumar Banerjee, B.E., son of 
Shri Amar Nath Banerjee. 


(8) Shri Bidhu Bhusan Shome, B.E., son of 
Shri Bhupendra Chandra Shome, 


(4) Shri Narayan Chandra Basak, B.E., son of 
Shri Hari Lal Basak, 


Sett, B.E., son of 


2. Until further orders, Shri Rabindra Kumar 
Sett, is posted us Technical Assistant to the 
Superintending Engineer, Presidency Circle, 
Shri Ajit Kumur Banerjee is posted to the Design 
Office of the Chief Engineer (Works and Build- 
ings), Shri Bidhu Bhusan Shome to the Barrack- 
pore Construction Subdivision of the North 
Calcutta Division under the Presidency Circle and 
Shri Narayan Chandra Basak is posted under the 
Northern Circle. 


No. 46.--14 July 1966.—Shri Bhut Nath 
Chatterjee, temporary Assistant Engineer, 18 
transferred, in the interest of public service, from 
the office of the Superintending Engineer, 
Presidency Circle, and posted to the charge of the 
City North and East Area Subdivision of the City 
1 under the Presidency Circle, until further 
orders. 


No. 46.—14th July 1956.—Shri Jagannath 
Mitra, temporary Assistant Engineer, ig 8۰+ 
ferred, in the interest of the public service, from 
the Design Office of the Chief Engineer, and posted 
to the charge of Nulratan Sircar Hospital Sub- 
division of the Suburban J)ivision under the 
Presidency Circle, until further orders. 


No. 47.—14th July 1966.—Shri Debaprosad 
Mukherjee, temporary Assistant Engineer, 8 
transferred, in the interest of public service, from 
the Nilratan Sircar [lospital Subdivision of the 
Suburban Division under the Presidency Circle 
and posted to the charge of the Asansol Sub- 
division of the Burdwan Division under the 
Central Circle, until further orders. 


pant 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2866 


পপ স্পেশাল 


No, 48.—16th July 1966.—Shri Sudhindra 
80197 14818) Executive Knogineer, City Division 
nde the Presidency Circle, was granted earned 
pave for seven days from 18th June 1956 to 19th 
june 1966 (both doys inclusive) under rule 167(ii), 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, in continuation 
ofthe leave granted to- him in this department 
80119696101) No, 38, dated 19th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. K. SINHA, Jt. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION AND 
WATERWAYS 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 82.—18th July 1956.—Shri Durga Mohan 
Mukherjee, officiating Executive Engineer, Cooch 
Behar Construction Division under the North 
Bengal Circle, was appointed to hold charge of the 
temporary Investigation Division, No. IV under 
hat Circle for the period from the 18th October 
1955 (fgrenoon) to the 19th December 1955 (fore- 
noon) In addition to his own duties. 


By order of the Governor, 
RB. K. ADHIKARI, Dy. Secy. 


IRRIGATION AND WATERWAYS 
DIRECTORATE 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 59C.I.E.—1]8th June 1956.—Shri A. K. 
Ghose, temporary Assistant Engineer-Sub- 
divisional Officer, Mechanical and Electrical Sub- 
division No. FV under the Mechanical and 
Klectrical Division, was appointed to hold charge 
of the Mechanical and Electrical Subdivision 
No. II under the said Division with effect from 
bth May 1956, afternoon, in addition to his own 
duties, until further orders, vice Shri B. K. Mitra, 
Awistant Engineer, on contract, transferred. 


No. 62C.1.E. — 25th June 1966. — 
‘hn .1ا‎ Sthanpati, temporary Assistant Engineer- 
Rubdivisional Officer, Jalpaiguri Irrigation Sub- 
division under the Jalpaiguri Irrigation Division, 
Was appointed to act as a বিনা Officer, 
alpaiguri Irrigation Division, in addition to his 
own duties, with effect from 3lst May 1956, after- 
noon, until further orders, mice Shri .لا‎ ۰ 

ukherjee, temporary Assistant Engineer, 
| resigned, 


I. B DE, Chief Engineer. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 3061 Dis. {D/121-8/66.— 16th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Seventh Industrial Tribunal was 
00081016607 under notification No. 1888Dis./D/ 
17154, dated the 29th April 1955, consisting of 
oe member only, namely, Dr. B. K. Bhattacharya, 
strict Judge: 


whereas the services of the said Dr. B. K‏ اص 
have been placed at the disposal of‏ کر سس 
Government of India;‏ * 


f Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
i bias hy sub-section (1), read with sub-section (2) 

kection 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
V of 1947), and with section 21 of the (feneral 
104৮৭ Aci, 1897 (X of 1897), and in partial 
Modification of the aforesaid order, the Governor 
11711187110 reconstitute the said Industrial 
nal consinting of ope member only, for 
10000170001 industrial disputes in accordance 


with the provisions of the former Act, and to 
appoint Shri Brojendra Lal Sarkar, District 
Judge, an independent person, as such member in 
place ot the said Dr. B. K. Bhattacharya, 


By order of the Governor, 
D. §. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


No. 3594Lab. /G/3A-24/56.—16th July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri ظط‎ L. 
Sarkar, lately District and Sessions Judge, 
Tripura, to be a Judge, Industrial Tribunal, until 
further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


শ্রম 1۱ 
LABOUR DIRECTORATE 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলশী। 
NOTIBICATIONS 
কারখানা 1۱ 
Works Committee 
সংখ্যা ১২ডবলিউস।-২৫শে জুন ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের wert 


শিষ্পাবিরোধ সংক্রান্ত 'নিয়মাবলীর ইএ নিয়মের (১২) উপনিয়ম অন্যায়শ 
২৪-পরগনা জিলায় আগড়পাড়ায় অবাস্থত মেসার্স টেক্সটাইল মোসনারশ 
করপোরেশন লিঃ বেয়েলার Weal) এর নবগঠিত কারখানা সামিতির 
সদসাদের নাম।পদ সাধারণের অবগাঁতর জন্য ح-ت‎ প্রকাশিত হইল ور‎ 


শ্রামকমণ্ডলশ নির্বাচিত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। শ্রীসত্যনারায়ণ ١ 

২। শ্রীবশ্বনাথ। 

ol শ্রীআবদুল স্টার। 

8١ 83871۱ 

&। 37۶7 ۱ 

৬। 8۱ 
কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনশত সদস্যদের ۱ 


১। এ্যাঁসম্টাল্ট ওয়ার্কস ম্যানেজার। 
২। এ্যাসিম্টাল্ট সেলস আঁফসার। 
Ol ফোরজিং সপ ফোরম্যান। 

৪। লেবার অফিসার। 

١۱ মেন্ট,ইন-চার্জ। 

৬। মারাঁকং সপ ফোরম্যান। 


No. 12W.C,.—25th June 1956.—In pursuance 
of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal lndus- 
trial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names/ designations 
of the members constituting the Works Coinmittee 
in Messrs. Textile Machinery Corporation 18۰ 
(Boiler Factory), Agarpara, 24-Parganas, are 
hereby published for genera] information ;— 
Names of the members elected by the workmen. 

(1) Shri Satya Narain Sha. 
(2) Shri Biswanath. 

(3) Shri Abdul Star. 

(4) Shri Ramaggaya. 

(5) Shri Satyendra Saha. 

(6) Shri Shankar. 

Designations of the members 
nominated by the employers. 

(1) Assistant Works Manager, 

(2) Assistant Sales Officer. 

(9) Forging Shop Voreman 

(4) Labour Officer, 

(7) Maint.-inscharge 

(G) Marking Shop Foreman, 


2866 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Parr 1 


সস CA Sk ےک‎ 


সংখ্যা ৬।৩৫১)৫৫1৬৬ডবালউ,স।--১৪ই জুন ১৯৯৫৬।--শ্রম আধ- 
ফারের ১৫ই জানুয়ারী ১৯৫৫ তারিখের ৬।৩।৫৫ডবলিউ,স, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞাপনের আংশক সংপাঁরবর্তনে sok ফেব্রুয়ারী ১৯৫৫ তারখের 
PITTS ঘোষপন়ের প্রথম খন্ডের ৪৮৬ AA প্রকাঁশত মেসার্স মেঘনা 
মিলস কোঃ ؟‎ জগম্দল, ২৪-পরগনা এর কারখানা সাঁমাতির কর্মানয়োগ- 
কর্তার মনোনধত সদস্য মেসার্স ٭٭ت‎ ম্যাকে, এইচ, ডৌভিডসন, জে, 
TEA, আর, কারাগিল এবং আর, এল, ম্যাকইনটোস, এর নাম বলোপ 
করা হইল। তংস্থলে Cy কারখানার কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য 
মেসার্স জি, গিলেস্শি, আর, এন, সিং, জে, fu, ডানকান, এ, স্কট এবং 
ড, প্রসাদ এর নাম সাধারণের অবশগাঁতির জন্য অন্ন প্রকাশিত ۱ 

No. 6/8(1)65/56W.C.—l4th June 1960-10 
partial modification of the Labour 6 
notification No. 6/3/55W.C., dated 15th January 
1955, published at page 486, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette, dated 10th February 1955, the 
names of Messrs. W. Mackay, H. Davidson, 
J. Fisher, R. Cargill and R. ہا‎ MelJIntosh, 
members nominated by the employers as_ their 
representatives to the Works Committee in 
Messrs. Megno Mills Co., Itd., Jagatdal, 
24-Parganas, are hereby cancelled and in_ their 
places names of Messrs. G. Gillespie, R. N. 
Singh, J. I). Duncan, A, Scott and 1). 86 


are published for general information as members 
nominated by the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা ২১।৩।৫৬ডবলিউ,স।-২৫শে জন ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
বঙ্গশয় শিল্পাবরোধ সংক্রান্ত নিরমাবলীর 20 নিয়মের (১২) 8 
অনুযায়ী কালকাতার SEA টেংরা রোডে অবাস্থত মেসার্স বেঞ্গল পটারজ 


ধলামটেড এর নবগাঠিত কারখানা সাঁমাঁতির সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের অবগাতর 
জনা অন্ন প্রকাশিত হইল ۲ 


শ্রামকমণ্ডলণ 'নর্বাচত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। শ্রীসৃদর্শন শুকুল। 
২। শ্রীলক্ষীধর মহাল্ভী। 
৩। Sar, ۱ 

৪) ےھ‎ fart 

&। শ্লীরামদেও ۱ 
৬। শ্রীআবৃল কাসেম। 

৭। Arta 6 ۱١ 
৮। শ্রীরামবাচন ×ات‎ 
৯। শ্রী শ্রীরাম শুকুল। 


কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্যদের নাম। 

৯। শ্রী'জি কে ভগত। 

২। শ্রী এ এন ۱ 

ot শ্রীলাভ ۱ 

৪। শ্রীহোসিয়ার 1۱ 

&। AY ce পি far 

৬। اڈ‎ এম এসরায়' 

۹۱ 8 বি ۱ 

৮। শ্রীরাজেন ۱ 

৯। শ্রীহরবন্স Pre ۱(جڑ)‎ 


No. 21/3/56W.C.—25th June 1956.—In  pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of 
the members constituting the Works Committee 
in Messrs. Bengal Potteries Ltd., 45, Tangra 


Road, Calcuttu-15, are hereby published po; 
general information :— 


Names of the members 
elected by the workmen. 
(1) Shri Sudarsan Sukul. 
(2) Shri Laxmidhar Mahanti. 
(3) Shri Radhu Das, 
(4) Shri Jugal Sing. 
(5) Shri Ramdeo Ahir. 
(6) Shri Abul Kashem. 
(7) Shri Pabitra Kumar Chakravarty. 
(8) Shri Ram Bachan Chowdhury. 
(9) Shri Sree Ram Sukul. 


Names of the members 
nominated by the employers. 


(1) Shri G, K. Bhagat. 

(2) Shri A. N. Dutt. 

(3) Shri Labh Singh. 

(4) Shri Hosier Singh. 

(6) Shri K. P. Sinha. 

(6) Shri M. S. Roy. 

(7) Shri B. Bose. 

(8) Shri Rajen Paul. 

(9) Shri Harbans Singh (Kiln). 


AY ২৩।৩(৬)৫৫।৫৬ডবালিউাস।-২৫শে জুন ১৯৫৬।- শ্রম 
আধিকারের ৫ই ফেব্রুয়ারী ১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের ২৩।৩।৫৫ডবনিউ,ঁস, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞাপনের আধাশক সংপাঁরবর্তনে ২৪শে ফেব্রুয়ারী ১৯৫৫ তারিখের 
কাঁলকাতা ঘোষপন্রলের প্রথম খণ্ডের ৭২৭ পৃষ্ঠায় ও ২৯শে সেপ্টেম্বর 
১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের Cs ঘোষপন্রের ইরা সেপ্টেম্বর ১৯১৫৫ তাঁরখের 
২৫।৩(৩)।৫৫ডবিউ,পি, সংখ্যায় প্রকাঁশত মেসার্স চৌভয়ট মিলস ۳٢ 
লিঃ, বজবজ, ২৪-পরগনা এর কারখানা সাঁমাতির কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনগত 
সদস্য মিঃ পি, স্মিথ এর নাম বিলোপ করা হইল। তংস্থলে Ce কারখানার 
কর্মীনয়োগ্রকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য fas এইচ, কুণণী এর নাম সাধারণের 
অবগাঁতর জন্য অন্ন প্রকাশিত হইল। 


No. 23/6)55/56W.C.—25th June 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 23/3/55W.C., dated 65th Febru- 
ary 1955, published at page 727, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette, dated 24th February 1955, and 
notification No, 26/38/(3)45W.C., dated 2nd 
September 1955, published 11) the _ said 
Gazette on 29th September 1955, the name 0 
Mr. VP. Smith, member nominated’ by _ the 
employers og their representative to the Werks 
Committee in Messrs. Cheviot Mills Co., Ltd.. 
Budge Budge, 24-Parganas, is hereby cancelled 
and in his place name of Mr. .ل1‎ Cooney 38 
published for general information as member 
nominated by the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা QV (CGUAAS AT—AAoy. GT ১৯৫৬ ।--১৯৪৭ নালের 
বঙ্গীয় শল্পাঁবরোধ wears 'নিয়মাবলশর 20 নিয়মের (১২) উপনিয়ম 
অলুযারী ২৪-পরগনা THT বজবজে یڑب‎ মেসার্স বার্মা শেল অয়েল 
স্টোরেজ এযান্ড 'ডাস্রীবউাটং কোং অব হণ্ডিয়া লিঃ, বজবজ ۴ 
এয় নবগঠিত কারখানা সাঁমাতর সদস্যদের নাম ।পদ সাধারণের অবগাঁতির জন্য 


55 প্রকাশিত হইল £-- 
শ্রীমকমণ্ডলণ নির্বাচিত সদসাদের নাম। 

১। শ্ীবাচুলাল 1۱ 

২। শ্্রীদ্রমরবর 51۱ 

৩। শ্রীআবদুূল রসিদ। 

8۱ শ্লীসয়াজূল হক। 

at শ্লীমেহের আলি। 

ت١‎ 37۱ 

۹۱۰ ۱ 

vi শ্লীসমীরণ শেখর و١‎ 


Part 1] 


4 কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্যদের পদ। 
১। ইনস্টলেশন মযানেজার। 

21 নিনিয়র ۱ 

Ol লেবার ওয়েলফেয়ার ۱ 

gi ওয়াকসিপ হাঞ্জনীয়ার। 

۱ anced ইন চাজ অব মেনটেনেল্স। 

৬। আফিস সপারিল্টেন্ডেন্ট। 


No. 22/2/56W.C.—22nd June 1956.—In_ pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules 1947, the sree pends 
nation of the members constituting the |Works 
Committee in Messrs. Burmah Shell Oil Storage 
& Distributing Co., ltd, (Budge Budge Installa- 
tion), Budge Budge, 24-Parganas, are hereby 
published for general information :— 


Names of the members 
elected by the workmen. 

(1) Shri Bachulal Senapati. 

Shri Bhramarbar Mahanti.‏ رق 

(3) Shri Abdul Rashid. 

(4) Shri Sirajul Haque. 

(5) Shri Meher Ali. 

(0) Shiai Surjonath. 

(7) Shri Sukbasilal. 

(8) Shri Sumiran Sekhar Dutta. 


Designations of the members 
nominated by the employers. 


(1) Installation Manager. 

(2) Senior Mugineer. 

(3) Labour Welfare Superintendent. 
(4) Workshop 15500177662, 

(5) Aasistant-in-charge of Maintenance, 
(6) Office Superintendent. 


সংখ্যা VOW (GUUS TA I—AvOT জুন ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
বঙ্গীয় ہجام‎ সংক্রান্ত নিয়মাবলখর ২এ নিয়মের (১২) উপানয়ম 
অনুষায়ী হুগলখ 1۶۱١ বংসবাঁটিতে অবস্থিত মেসার্স এমপায়ার বোন 
মিলস এর নবগঠিত কারখানা Alster সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের অবগাঁতর 
জন্য 6ج‎ প্রকাশিত হইল £ 


শ্রীমিকমণ্ডলশ নিব্শাচত সদসাদের নাম। 


<١ 8)۱ 

:١ 8715 কুমার 1۱ 
٠٢ ۶۰۷۰ھ‎ ۱ 

8١ শ্রীশৈলেন ۱ 

&1 শ্রীতেজেন্্র চোধুরশী। 


কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্মদের ۱ 
>! শ্রী এইচ এন রায়। 
২। শ্রী এস 1 
৩। শ্ীসকুমার মুখোপাধ্যায় 
8١۱ শ্রীহৃষিকেশ ١ : 
Ol মিঃ এফ ۱ء‎ 


আর, এন, বস, 
প্রম-মহাধাক্ষ। 


No. 23/2/56W.0.—26th Tune 1956. হা pur- 
Stance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Indusivial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of 

“ member, constituting the Works Committee 

essrs, Empire Bone Mills, Bansbati, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2867 


Hooghly, are hereby 
information :— 


Names of the members 
elected by the workmen. 


(1) Shri Gurumurty, 

(2) Shri Ajit Kumar Ghosh. 
(4) Shri Nepal Nandy. | 

(4) Shri Sailen Datta. 

(5) Shri ‘Tejendra Chowdhury. 


published fo. general 


Names of the members 
nominated by the employers. 


(1) Shri H. N. Roy. 

(2) Shri 9. Mukherjee. 

(9) Shri Sumumar Mukherjee. 
(4) Shri Hrishi Kesh Mittra. 
(5) Mr. (". Joseph. 


R. N. BOSE, Labour Commissioner. 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 


WORKING CLASS FOR ASANSOL- 
RANIGUNJ AREA FOR THE MONTH OF 
MAY 1956 
Base: Year 1951=100 
Grou Weigh May 
ps. তিনি, ۱ . | 1986. 
Food .. ee 64°77 95 
Fuel and Lighting .. 4:01 94 
Clothing ۰ 7-30 84 
Miacellaneous or 21-46 108 
House Rend ৪ 2-46 100 
General Index ‘ 100-00 77 97 


The Consumer Price Index Number has gone up 
by 2 points to 97 during May 1956 from 95 during 
the previous month. The rise is due mainly to 
increase in the prices of rice, dal, chhola, mustard 
oil, ghee, fish, vegetable, firewood and almost all 
varieties of clothing articles. 


S. N. CHATTERJEE, 


Dy. Labour Commissioner. 


FINANCE (Taxn.) 


Directorate of Textiles 


NOTIFICATION 

No. 8316/TX/L/2PL1/56.—18th July 1956.— 
In exercise of the powers conferred on me چا‎ 
the second proviso to paragraph 1! of the West 
Bengal Cotton Cloth and Yarn 00000] Order, 
1948, and in continuation of this office notifica- 
tion No, 5089/TX/L/2P-1/56, dated 16th May 
1956, I hereby extend up to 29th September 
1956 the period of validity of all Textile Licences 
issued and renewed under the said 011 for 
1955-56 provided that application for renewal in 
the Calcutta area, which will not be filed before 
élet August 1956, will be accepted only if the 
default is for sufficient reasons and unavoidable 
cuuse and the application is accompanied with 
renewal fee aoa prescribed in Schedule T of the 
ہہ‎ order, together with an extra fee equal to 


25 per cent. of the renewal fees, in non-judicial 
stamps, 


This notification shall he deemed to have taken 
effect from the Ist August 1956. 


8. K, BOSE, Director of Textiles. 


2868 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Panr I 
EPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND Murshidabad-Birbhum-Nadia.—No. 1920301... 
REVENUE 1081 July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 

2 Bhupesh plea Banik, Settle- 

ment Kanungo, now employed on Revisional 

Land Revenue Settlement Operation in the districts of M চিন 
NOTIFICATIONS bad and Birbhum, as Revenue Officer, for the pur- 

Malda-West Dinajpur.—No. 117901,.R.—4th poses of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 


July 1956.—The Governor 1s pleased to appoint 
the following Settlement Kanungos now attached 
to Malda-West Dinajpur Revisional Settlement 
Operation as Revenue Officers for the purposes of 
the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
West Bengal Act T of 1954), with the additional 
designation of Assistant Settlement Officer for the 
purposes of the revision of the record-of-rights 
under chapter V of the said Act, in respect of the 
districts of Malda and West Dinajpur: 


1) Shri Khogendra Nath Ghosh. 

2) Shri Bijoy Kumar Das. 

3) Shri Narayan Chandra Sarkar. 

4) Shri Jibendra Nath Banerjee. 

(6) Shri Nitish Chandra Chakraborty. 
(6) Shri Rabindra Chandra Bhowal, 
ا‎ Shri Saradindu Sarkar, 

8) Shri Salil Kumar Banerjee. 


24-Parganas.—No. 117921L..R.—4th July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint the following 
Settlement Kanungos now attached to 24-Pargunas 
Revisional Settlement Operation as Revenue Oth- 
cers for the purpose of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), 
with the additional designation of Assistant Settle- 
ment Officers for the purposes of the revision of the 
record-of-rights under Chapter V of the said Act in 
respect of the district of 24-Parganas: 


(1) Shri Jahar Lal Bose. 
(2) Shri Phakir Chandra Sinha. 


24-Parganas.—No. 117941..R.—4th July 1956. 
—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 45 
of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act I of 1954), the Governor is 
pleased to specially empower the Revenue Officer 
named below to make corrections in the record-of- 
rights prepared in respect of the lands in the dis- 
trict of 24-Parganas in accordance with and sub- 
ject to the provisions of the said section: 

Shri Atul Kuma Das Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 

Gupta. Sub-Deputy Collector (on pro- 
bation) and Assistant Settle- 
ment Officer, 24-Parganas. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum-Nadia.—_ No. = 12026L.R. 
—l0th July 1956.—In exercisé of the power con- 
ferred by section 4 of the Bengal Survey Act, 1875 
(Act V of 1875), the Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Prabodh Ranjan Choudhury, Special Revenue 
Qtticer, Grade II, attached to Murshidabad- 
Birbhum Kevisional Settlement Operation, to be 
Assistant Superintendent of Surveys for the pur- 
pose of carrying out the survey of the lands of 
district of Nadia in addition to the districts of 
Murshidabad and Birbhum as_ already notified 
under notification No. 4902L.R., dated the 14100 
March 1956. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum-Nadia.—No. 12028L.K. 
—l0th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Prabodh Ranjan Choudhury, Special 
Revenue Officer, Grade JI, now employed as 
Assistant Settlement Officer, Murshidabad-Birbhum 
Revisional Settlement Qperation, as Revenue 
Officer for the purposes of the West Bengal 
istates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act | 
of 1944), with the additional designation of 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purposes of 
revision of record-of-rights under Chapter V of the 
said Act, in respect of the district of Nadja in 
addition to the districts of Murahidabad 0100 
Birbhum as already notified under notification 
No, 4903L.R., dated the 12th March 1956. 


1968 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), im respect of 
the district of Nadia in addition to the districts 
of Murshidabad ond Birbhum aa already notified 
under notification No. 414014.5.১ dated the 27th 
February 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


ডে 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 11878L.A.(P.W.).—bth July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel the notice 
No. 12950L.A.(P.W.), dated the 6th July 19665, 
under section 4(la) of the West [Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (Weast 
Bengal Act II of 1948), published at page 2717, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 14th July 
1955, in respect of the proposed acquisition of 
more or less 12.43 acres of land for the purpose of 
providing facilities for transport and Communica- 
tion, namely, for the construction of Saptagram- 
Tiibeni-Guptipara-Kalna-Nubadwip-Katwa Road 
(section from Kalna to Nahadwip, mile No. 12), in 
the villages of Champahati, chak Rahatpur and 
Srirampur, jurisdiction list Nos. 1386, 187 and 188, 
respectively, police-station Purbasthali, district 
Burdwan. 


24-Parganas.—No. 11880L.A.—dth July 1956.— 
The (Jovernor is pleased to cancel the notification 
No. 141861,.A., dated the 16th December 1950, 
under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 
1894, published at page 2592, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 28th December 1950 in respect of 
the proposed acquisition of 1.51 acres of Land for 
the diversion of Basirhat-Swarupnagar Road, 10th 
mile, in the village of Banglani, jurisdiction 
list No. 38, thana Swarupnagar, pargana Sarfara)- 
pur, district 24-Parganas. 


24-Parganas-—No. 118821..A.(P.W.).—5th July 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be ie for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
construction of godown with stock-yard, cooly shed 
and rest houses on the 136) Mile of the Barashat 
Basirhat Road, in the village of Deulia, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 68, thana Deganga, pargana 
Balanda, district 24-Parganas, it 1s hereby notified 
that a piece of land comprising cadastral plot 
Nos. 1407 and 1408 and measuring, more or less, 
2.57 acres, is likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village Deulia. 

This notification is made, under the provisions of 
section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Alipore, 
24-Parganas. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise the 
officers for the time being engaged in the under- 
taking, with their servants and) workmen, to enter 
upon and survey the land and do all other acts 
required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who has 
nny objection to the acquisition thereof may within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in fhe 
locality, file an objection in writing before ihe 
(‘ollector of 24-Parganas, Land Acquisition Depart 
ment, 1ؤ‎ ۰ 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2869 


সম 


Midnapore.—No.11950L.A.—9th July 1956.— 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section রি 
of the Land Acquisition Act I of 1894, the 
(lovernor 18 1 to withdraw from the acquisi- 
tion of 0.81 of an acre of land, comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 65 and 66 out of the total area 
of 0.99 of an acre of land, covered by declaration 
No. 17700L.A., dated 13th September 1955, pub- 
lished at page 3847, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 
of the 29th September 1955, and required for the 
construction of Forest Beat Office and quarters in 
the village of Ruparghagra, jurisdiction 46 
No. 18, police-station Garbeta, district Midnapore. 


Calcutta.—No. 11968L.A.—10th July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to cancel notification 
No. 10242L.A., dated the 29th May 1953, under 
section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 
published at page 1892, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 1161) June 1953, in respect of the 
proposed. 17 of 0.8182 of an acre of land 
at premises No. 11/7, Hazi Zakaria Lane, for the 
Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department for 
the construction of residential quarters for the dis- 
placed persons from East Bengal who are at 
present employed in and around Calcutta in ward 
No. 14 of the Calcutta Municipality in the city of 
0018۰. 


Cooch Behar.—No. 11970L.A.—10th July 1956. 
—Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
purposes of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
(Iovernment of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for ৪. public .حسم‎ 
pose, being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 
establishing Check Post at Changrabandha in 
taluk Changrabandha Bundar, thak No. 164, 
sheet No. 1, pargana Mekliganj, police-station 
Mekliganj, district Cooch Behar it is hereby 
notified that pieces of land altogether measur- 
ing, more or less, 0.20 of an acre, and comprising 
radastral plot Nos. 68 and 69, are iikely to be 
ueeded for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expese within the aforesaid taluk of 
Changrabandha Bundar. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
tead with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern, ۱ 


A plan of the land La be inspected in the office 

of the Superintendent 01 Police, Cooch Behar, as 

i as in that of the Deputy Commissioner, Cooch 
char, 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, real with the said notification, the 
‘overnor ig plansed to authorise the officers for the 
time heing engaged in the undertaking, with their 
‘ervants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 

۱۶ land and do all other acts required or permitted 
۲ that section. 


۱ 7ھ‎ Person interested in the above land, who 
a8 any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 


within thirty days after the date on which pubhio - 


in 16 of the substance of this notification is given 
the locality, file an objection in writing before 
© Deputy Commissioner of Conch Behar, 


wrurdwan,—No. 119723,.A.—10th July 1956.— 
: ees the functions of the Central Government 
er the Tand Acquisition Act, 1894 (TI of 1894), 
ie relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
বাঁকা of the Union have been entrusted to the 
Mag Government by notification No. 20/1 /55- 
udl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Svernment of India in the Ministry of Lome 


Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for an 
assisted siding to serve selected Searsol Colliery 
and Sree Amritnagar Colliery in the village of 
Nimcha, jurisdiction list No. 16, thana Raniganj, 
pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that a piece of land starting from vhain- 
age 1.78 feet from 123rd mile post of the Eastern 
Railway main line, corresponding to chainage 2.20 
feet of the proposed siding, which originated from 
3.92 feet of mile 123 and running generally 
towards the south-eastern direction attached to the 
southern boundary line of the Eastern Railway up 
to chainage 4.80 feet of the new alignment and 
running generally towards the same direction 
mah the village Nimcha and terminating at 
chainage 7.20 feet being 600 feet in length and 
varying in width from 55 feet to 165 feet, and 
measuring, more or less, 1.176 acres, is ‘ikely 10 
be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid village of 
Nimcha. 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Divisional Superintendent, 
Eastern Railway, Asansol. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, read with the said notification, the 
Governor is pleased to authorise the officers for 
the time being engaged in the undertaking, with 
their servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the land and do all other acts required or 
permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector, Burdwan. 


Howrah.—No. 11974L.A.—l0th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in, slation to the acquisition of land for 
the PU lan off the Union have been entrusted to 
the S4ype (01197101616 by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Jud d the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
0 Gaicutta.f India, in the Ministry of Home 

Wherens t} Clause (1) of article 258 of the 
. oustitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Tnion, namely, for Goods 
Yard of the Eastern Railway in wari No. IT of 
the Howrah Municipality in the district of 
Howrah, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising portions of municipal holding Nos. 29, 
28/1, 23/2, 28/8, 28/4, 28/5, 23/6, 23/7, 23/8 
and 23/9 of Mahi Nath Pore) Lane, and portions 
of municipal holding Nos. 40, 40A, 40/1, 40/2, 
40/3, 40/4, 40/5, 40/6, 40/7, 40/8 and 41 of 
Benaras Road, and altogether measuring, more or 
less, .32 of an acre, bounded on the— 

North—By the remaining portion of holding 
No. 23 of Mahi Nath Porel Lane, 


Kast—By the dearer portion of holding 
No. 29 of Mahi Nath Porel Lane and by the 
remaining portions of holding Nos. 40 and 
41 of Benaras Road, 

West—RBy Eastern Railway land, 

South—By the lands of Benaras Road, 

is likely to be needed for the aforesaid public pur- 


pose at the public expense within the aforesaid 
ward No. II of the Howrah Municipality. 


2870 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of Howrah. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
rection, read with the said notification, the 
GJovernor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Howrab. 


Howrah.—No. 11978]..A.—JO0th July 1956.— 
The (Governor is pleased to sanction the sale of 
the land described below, by the Howrah-Amta 
Light Railway Company, Limited, to parties whom 
the Railway may desire. 


Description of the land. 

(1) A piece of land having municipal holding 
No. 10, N. arasingha Datta Road, Howrah, acquired 
under declaration No. 20, dated the 17th 
February 1896, and bounded on the— 


North--By municipal holding Nos, 8 and 9, 
Narasingha Datta Road, 

Fast—By Narasingha Datta Road, 7 

South—By Narasingha Datta Road, 

West—By existing municipal road and 
municipal land. 


(2) A piece of land between the municipal land 
and road acquired under declaration No. 93, dated 
the 27th July 1896, and bounded on the— 


North—By existing municipal rvad and 
municipal land, 

East—By municipal land, 

South—By existing municipal road and 
municipal land, 

West—By existing municipal road. 


24-Parganas.—No. 12012L.A.(P.W.).—10th July 
1956.—The (tovernor is pleased to cancel so much 
of the notification No. 201921..A.(P.W.), dated the 
10th November 1952, under section 4 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published at page 3619, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 20th idem, as 
relates to a piece of land measuring, more or less, 
0.03 of un acre, and comprising part -6f qadastral 
survey plot No. 1853, of vilage Gamnespur, juris- 
diction Jist No. 11, in thana Kakdwip, ott © 
total area of 1.47 acres notified for: 00001811012 
for the construction of the YhamorP°® Harhou;- 
Kakdwip Road at the 27th mile, ٢ Acetgs ip 
Kakdwip canal in the district 62079 24-Parganas/ 

Hooghly.—No. 120547, A.—1ith July 1956.—In 
exercise of the poyerg conferred by section 48(1) 
۳۰۳۰۶ Tend AGuisition Act, I of 1894, the 
(Jovernor is pleased to withdraw from the acquisi- 
tion of the entire area of land declared under sec- 
tion 6 of the said Act, for acquisition, in 
declaration No. 12368]..A., dated 18th July 1952, 
published at puge 2466, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 3lst idem, for the purpose of 
extension of the Rifle Range in the village of 
Kulihunda, jurisdiction list No. 18, thana 
Chinsura, pargana Arsha, district Hooghly. 


Howrali—No. 12076L.A.—1l1th July 1956.—The 
Governor ig pleased to cancel the notification 
No. 46501..A., dated the Gth June 1949, under sec- 
tion 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 
published at page 987, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 16th June 1949, in respect of the 
proposed acquisition of 0.1037 of an acre of land 
for the Howrah Municipality for construction of a 
building for a Free Primary School in the village 
of Santragachi, jurisdictjon list No, 1, in the dis- 
trict of Howrah. 


| Varr | 


} 

Burdwan.—No. 12100]J.A.—llth July 1956. 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pu. 
poses of the Union, have been entrusted 10 “he 
State Government by notificetion No. ای‎ 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India, in the Ministry ot UWome 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that lan) 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for remodelling 
of Ondal Station Yard in connection with the 
Sevond Five-Year Plan, in the village of 
Shrirampur, jurisdiction list No. 56, thana Ondal, 
Pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that a piece of land starting from chain. 
age 4,995 feet in mile 114 of Eastern Railway 
Main Tine and running generally towards West 
being attached to the old north boundary line of 
the same line, passing through the village of 
Shrirampur and terminating at chainage 1,685 
feet in mile 115 of the same line and in same 
village varying in width from .0 foot to 230 feet 
and being 1,0841 feet in length, and measuring, 
more or less, 6.18 acres, is likely to be needed for 
the aforesaid না purpose at the public expense 
within the village of Shrirampur. 


This notification is made, under the provision 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, read 
with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of Divisional Engineer No. TI, 
Kastern Railway, Asansol. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, read with the said notification, 'the 
Governor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking with ther 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
Jand as is not waste and arable, who has an 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after .he date on which public ‘notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in the 
lovality, file 91) objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan 


_In_ exercise of the powers conferred by ىا‎ 
tion 17(4)' of.the Land Acquisition Act, L of 1894 
aa ainended by Act XXXVUI of 1928, and read 
with the aforesaid notification, the Governor 14 
pleased to direct that the provisions of section 54 
of the Act shall not apply to the waste or arable 
portions of the land in this case. 


Hooghly.—No. 126701..A.—16th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 1 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for'the Industria 
Tfousing Project, in the village of Rughia, june 
diction list No. 27, thana Serampore, distri! 
Hooghly, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising cadastral plot Nos. 3514, 3614, 9916) 


3517, 3518, 3519, 3520, 3521, 8522, 272) 
3524, 3626, 8526, 3527, 3428, 3529, 9711 
3431, 3582, 8683, 9634, 9536, 8536, 0 
8638, 3639, 3640, 3541, 3704, 370h, 00 
3707, 3708, 3709, 4061, 4068, 4064, 400 


and 4066, and measuring, more or less, 6.7] acre 
is Jikely to be needed for the aforesaid public pul 
pose at the public expense within the aforesd 
village of Rishra; 

This notification is made, under the provisioM 
of section 4 of Act I, of 1894, to all whom it m4 
concern. 


A plan of the 1010 may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 11001 


part I] 


SS সপ 


7 exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engeged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Hooghly. 


ERRATA 


Hooghly.—No. 126881..A.—18th July 1956.— 
ln notification No, 2222L.A., dated 8th February 
1955, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1 of 1894, published at page 158, Part ] of the 
Calcutta Gazette, Ewtraordinary of the same date 
in respoct of acquisition of Jand required by the 
Damodar Valley Corporation tor Duistributary 
۲٢٢ trom chainage 86.80 to chainage 1832.01 im 
the district of Hooghly— 


Read “7.42 acres” for “7.42 acres” in line 14. 


Birbhum.—No. = 120727..A.(P.W.).—IJ 1th July 
1956.—In notice No. 16178L.A.(P?.W.), dated 
26th October 1954, under section 4(la) of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acyuisition) 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act IT of 1948), published 
at page 3531, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 
1111) November 1954, in respect of acquisition of 
land tor the purpose of providing facilities for 
irrigation and drainage, namely, for Distributary 
No. 3/B of Dwarka-Brahmani Branch Canal, in 
connection with Mayurakshi Reservoir Project in 
the village of Brahmani and 2 others under police- 
station Rampurhat, district Birbhum— 


Read the word ‘“‘Benegram’’ for the word 
“Bonagram” in line 43. 


Birbhum.—No. 1207414807১, ت00"‎ July 
1956.—In notice No. 224341.A4¢P.W.), dated 
18th November 1955, under section 4(la) of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act IT of 1948), pub- 
lished at pages 2141-2142, Part I of the Calcuttu 
Gazette, Ewtraordinary, of the 18th November 
1997, in respect of the acquisition of land for the 
)urpose of providing facilities for irrigation and 
drainage, namely, for Minor No. 2, Distributary 
No. 4EX. Kopai South Main Canal, in connection 
with the Mayurakshi Reservoir Project in the 
villages of Papuri, jurisdiction list No. 62, police- 
Atation Nanoor, and others, district Birbhum— 


(1) Read the figure ‘12249 بر‎ between the 
figures “2241”? and 12291?) in line 48. 


(2) Delete the figure “2249? in line 60. 


(3) Read the figure ‘'2116” for the 
**1216" in line 69. 


(4) Read the figure “1 
“443” in line 12%. 


(5) Delete the figure 541°’ in line 128. 


DECLARATIONS 


10111078188 ০. 119761,.A.(P.W.),—l0th 7۲ 
ie ».—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
: hes for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
Meche Union, namely, for the construction of, the 
a Mda-Tamluk Road (section from the 2nd mile 
Wohi Shahara to Mahishda), in the village of 
109010,, jurisdiction list No, 71, thana Tamluk, 
Sita Midnapore, it is herehy- declared that a 
ہیں‎ of land comprising part of cadastral plot 
ie ~140, and measuring, more or less, 0.01 of an 

at‏ س0" needed for the aforesaid public‏ 3( ؟ 
Mone Hic expense within the aforesaid village of‏ 
Usha,‏ 

This declaration is made, under the provisions 


i ‘tion 6, Act I, of 1894. to all whom it may 
0230670 


figure 


after the figure 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2871 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of Midnapore. 


Bankura.—No. 119921..A.—10th July 1956.— 
Whereas the (tovernor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for raising Matchwood 
plantation in the villages of Mejia and Telenda, 
jurisdiction list Nos. 37 and 60, respectively, 
thana Mejia, parganoa Vishnupur, — district 
Bankura, it is hereby declared that pieces of Jand 
comprising cadastral plot Nos. 271, 278, 275, 276, 
277, 280, 281, 282, 283, 284, 285, 286, 598, 663, 
664, 666. and 667 of village Mejia and cadastral 
survey plot No. 1 of village Telenda, ١٥۸۹4۹ al- 
together measuring, more or less, 315.97 acres, 
are needed for the aforesaid publie purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid villages of 
Mejia and Telenda. 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other ininerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion of 
the land, except only such parts of the mines and 
minerals, as it may be necessary to dig or carry 
away, or use in the construction of the work for 
the purpose of which the land is being acquired, 
are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I, of 1894, and section 3, 
clause (1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom it may 


coneern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Tuand Acquisition Collector, 
Bankura. 


24-Parganas. — No. 120081..A.(P.W.),:-— 10th 
July 1956 —Whereas the Governor ig satisfied 
that extra lund is needed for a pubile purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
construction of the Jiamond Harbour-Kakdwip 
Road at the 27th Mile up to the Kakdwip canal in 
the village of Gdnespur, jurisdiction list No. 11, 
thana Kahdwip, district 24-Parganas, it is hereby 
declared that pieces of land comprising part of 
cadastral plot Nos. 1871, 1868, 1867, 1866, 1865, 
1857, 1863, 1874 and altogether measuring, more 
or less, 0.58 of an acre, are needed for the afore- 
4810 public purpose at the public expense within 
the aforesaid village of Ganespur. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act T of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of the 24-Parganas, 


Caicutta.—No. 12096L.A.—J1lth July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, (1 of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of Jand for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
১101 (rovernment by notification No. 20/1/65- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
(fovernmnent of India, in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
18 needed for a public purpose, being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for the construction of a Post 
Office building at New Alipore, in ward No, 72 
of the Caleutta | Municipality in’ the city of 
Caleutta, it is hereby declared that a piece of land 
comprising plot Nos. 626 and 526A of premises 
No. 231A, Jhamond Tlarbour Road, Block No. M, 
New Alipore ond measuring, more or less, 0.1807 
of an acre, bounded on the— 


North-- By plot Nos. 626 and 524A, 
[7041 By plot No. 527, 
South and West—By 30 feet road. 
is needed for the aforesuid public purpose at the 


public expense within the aforesaid ward No. 72 


of the Caleutta Municipality in the city of 
Calcutta. | ۱ 


2812 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Parr ] 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I 
of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom 10 may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, 
at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


Calcutta.—No. 12098L.A.—llth July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India, in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of artacle 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for the construction of a 
building for Tollygunge Post Office, in ward 
No. 65 of the Calcutta Municipality in the city of 
Calcutta, 1t is hereby declared that a piece of land 
comprising premises No. 50G, Russa Road and 
portion of premises No. 50H, Russa Road, and 
measuring, more or less, 0.1507 of an acre hounded 
on the— 


North—By common passage, = 

East—By Calcutta Improvement Trust 
acyuired land and the remaining portion of 
premises No. 50H, Russa Road, 


South—By premises No. 50A, Russa Road, 
West--By premises No. 49A, Russa Road, 


is needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid ward No. 65 
of the Calcutta Municipality, in the 
Calcutta. 


This declarnion is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I 
of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern. 


city of 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, 
at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


Burdwan.—No. 12478L.A.—1l4th July 1956.— 
Whereag the (Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not heing a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. 30A 
and 31A of Burdwan-Belmuri Section 182 K. Y. 
Transmission J,ine, in connection with the promo- 
tion and operation of schemes for the generation, 
transmission and distribution of electric energy, 
in the village of Durgabati, jurisdiction list No. 90, 
thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
declared that pieces of land comprising parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 307 and 338, and 
altogether measuring, more or less, .0412 of an 
acre, are needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
at the expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation 
within the aforesaid village of Durgabati. 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals, 
lving under the land or any particular portion of 
the land, except only such parts of the mines and 
minerals as it may be necessary to dig or carry 
away, or use in the construction of the work for 
the purpose of which the land is being acquired, 
are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, and section 3, 
clause (1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom it may 


roncern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the offire 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


ERRATA. 


24-Parganas. — No. 12010L.A.(P.W.). — 10th 
July 1966.—In declaration No. 3682L.A.(P.W.), 
dated the 2lst February 1953, under section 6 of 
the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published ut 
page 649, Part I, of the Calcutta Gacette, of the 
5th March 1968, in respect of the acquisition of 
extra land required for the construction of the 
Diamond Harbour-Kakdwip Road at the 27th mile 
up to the Kakdwip Canal, in the district of the 
24-Parganas, following changes will occur— 


Read ‘0.86 of an acre” for “1.20 acres” in 


line 9 
Thana Kakdwip, village Ganespur, jurisdiction 
list No. 11. 
Delete “1866, 1863” against cadastral plots in 


part. 


Hooghly. No. 126901.A.—18th July 1956.— 
In declaration No. 2224L.A., dated 8th February 
1956, under section 6 of the Land Acquisition 4১০, 
T of 1894, published at page 590, Part I of ihe 
Calcutta Gazette of the 17th idem in reSpect of 
acquisition of land required by tho Damodar 
Valley Corporation for Distributary N/3  frem 
chainage 86.80 to chainage 1382.30 in the District 
of Hooghly— 


Read ‘6.12 acres” for “5.02 acres” in line 14. 


Hooghly. —No. 12720L.A.—18th July 1956.— 
In the declaration No, 8712L.A., dated 11th June 
1954, under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
] of 1894, published at page 1949, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette of the 17th idem in respect of 
the acquisition of land required by the Damodar 
Valley Corporation for the excavation of 11561 
[19870 from chainage 704.50 to chainage 0 
in the District of Hooghly— 


Read the figure ‘3026” for the figure 3025” 
in line 21. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Land Reforms 


ORDERS 


Bankura.—No. 116861..Ref.—2nd July 1966.— 
Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Harihar Mukharjee, Shri  Harikinkar Mukherjé 
und Shrimati Ushakali Debya of Hattola, Bankura, 
under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (Weeat 
Bengal Act I, of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all suma recoverable by them under 
the নান of section 8 of the said Act in respect 
of all interests held by them as intermediaries 1m 
the district of Bankura. 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by_sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Midnapore-Bankura.—No. 11690L.Ref. — 2nd 
July 1956.— Whereas an application has been made 
by Shri Bibbuti Bhusan Pandey of village and 
post office Nepura, district Midnapore, under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), 
for recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of section 8 
of the said Act in respect of all interests held by 
him as an intermediary in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the sal 
Act. the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


WAY ৯ 
018 


ints 7 
7 


من[ 
Wem 1‏ 0 
و 

॥ VA‏ ٭ 
از OS Je ae টি‏ 
tS‏ ا ںا 1০১১২)‏ 
0 0 ا ॥‏ ,857 ا 


۰ 
ٹیر i ৮‏ کی ا 
وق 5+ 11৬,‏ 7 


0 MoT: 0 
7 : پا‎ 


0۵ 


ee 2 
7 


es 


11017117778) 
0 ۷ 
MK 


اس 


110 
SECON 
ur reco} 
ecoveral 111 
ion সাদ 70৫ me 
trict of M 73 


0 


t, the '‏ 
ppheatio us Wa‏ 
وربور ۰۰۰ 0۱۸۷وروی مک یضر را مہ 

৪1478548804 Magee yeu mere 


oo petovery: by the “tate: Grover 
recoverable by them under the. 
d 


In re 
1 lint 
in the distriet: 0 
by sub-section 


0 


1১৯৪) 
کا‎ 


| ০০০৮০ 
175 
081,821 


287 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Vari | 
N 


Midnapore.—-No. 119081,.Ref.—6th July 1956.— 
ড$ 011১3 anu application has been made by 
Shri Achintya Nath Sasmal, under sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State (Gdovernment of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of sec- 
tion 8 of the said Act, in respect of all interests 
held by him as an intermediary in the district of 
Midnapore ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Hooghly.—No. 119801,.Ref.—l0th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Amala Debi, Zemindar, Kumar Manson, 
Makalpur, Hooghly, under sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 9 of the West Bengal Kstates Acquisition Act, 
1963 (West Bengal Act, I of 1954), tor recovery 
by the State Government of all sums recoverable 
hy her under the provisions of section 8 of the said 
Act, 1n respect of all interests held by her as an 
intermediary in the district of Hooghly; 


Now, therefore, in erercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the. said 
Act. the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
upplication. পু 


West Dinajpur.—No. 1109821,.0861.-10% July 
1956.- Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Ramesh Chandra Bhattacherjee of Balurghat, 
West Dinajpur, under sub-section (1) of section 9 
of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act, I of 1954), for recovery by the 
State Government of all sums recoverable by him 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by him as an inter- 
mediary in the district of West Dinajpur ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
applieation. 


By order of the (tovernor, 


S. BANERJEE, ০৮. 


রড 


Howrah.—No. 11820L.Ref.—4th July 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by clause (a) of 
sub-section 39 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), the 
(fovernor 13 pleased, for carrying out the purpose 
of the said Act, to make this order directing that a 
record-of-rights be prepared by a Revenue Officer 
in respect of the areas included in police-stations 
Malipanchghora, Golabari, Bantra, Howrah and 
Sibpore in the district of Howrah constituted under 
Wome (Police) Department notification Nos. 600- 
101. dated the 17th February 1918 and 90IP1., 
dated the Loth March 1925, in accordance with the 
provisions of Chapter V of the said Act and the 
rules made in this behalf by the State Government. 


By order of the Governor, 
P.M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 
Murshidahad.—No. 119441..Ref.—7th 7٣ 


1956.—In exercixe of the power conferred by 
clause (d) of section 2 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act T of 
1944), the Governor is plensed to appoint Shri 
A. K. Dutt, T.A.S8, Additional Tistrict Magis- 
trate, Murshidabad, to discharge all the functions 
of a Collector ander the said Act within the dis- 
trict of Murshidahad. 


Murshidabad.—No. 119461,.Ref.—7th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Shr 
A. K. Dutt, LA.8., Additional District Magis. 
trate, Murshidabad, as Revenue Ofhcer for the 
purposes of the West Bengal Mstutes Acquisition 
Act 195% (West Bengal Act ] of 1964), ٘ز‎ res 
pect of the district of Murshidabad. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 125841..Ref.—l7th July 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub. 
section (2) of section 20 of the West Bengal Land 
Reforms Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), 
the Governor is pleased to make the followin 
amendment to the notification No. J0101..Ref,. 
dated the llth April 1956, published ৪1 
pages 795(19) to 795(28), Part ]٤ of the Calcutta 
(fazette, Ertraordinary, dated the 18th April 1950 
namely :— 

Amendment 


In column 1 of the Schedule to the said notifica. 
tion under the heading ‘District West Dinajpur" 
substitute (i) ‘Agricultural Extension (fhcer, 
Raiganj” for “Agricultural Inspector, Raiganj”, 
(11) ‘‘Agricultural Kxtension Officer, Jlemtabad” 
for ‘Agricultural Inspector, Hemtabad”’ and (iii) 
“Agricultural Extension Officer, Kaliaganj’’ for 
“Agricultural Inspector, Kaliagany’’. 


2. This notification shall be deemed to ۵ 
effect and to have always had effect on and trom 
the 18th day of April 1956. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 12586]..Ref.—17th July 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 18 of the West Beugal Land 
Reforma Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), 
the Gfovernor is pleased to make the following 
amendment to the notification No. YOO8L.Ref., 
dated the 1111) April 1956, published at 
pages 795(10) to 795(19), Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette, Evrtraordinary, dated the 18th April 
1956, namely :— 


Amendment 


In column 1 of the Schedule to the said notifiea- 
tion under the heading ‘istrict West Dinajpur” 
substitute (i) “‘Agricultural Extension Officer, 
Raiganj” for “Agricultural Inspector, Raigan]”’, 
(ii) ‘‘Agricultural Extension Officer, 66 707” 
for ‘‘Agricultural Inspector, Hemtabad” and 00) 
‘Agricultural Extension Officer, Kalinganj” for 
“Agricultural Inspector, Kuliaganj’’. 


2. This notification shall be deemed to ۶ 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 1956. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 125887..Ref.—17th July 
1956.—In exercise ot the power conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 17 of the West Bengal Land 
Reforms Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
amendment to the notification No, ۲0061.1٠ 
dated the 11th April 1956, published ut 
pages 795(1) to 795(10), Part T of the Calcutta 
Gazette, Etravrdinary, dated the 18th April 1956, 
namely :— 


Amendment 


In column 1 of the Schedule to the said notifiea- 
tion under the heading ‘‘District West Dinajput 
substitute (i) “Agricultural Extension Officer, 
Raiganj” for “Agricultural Inspector, Raigan) | 
(ii) “Agricultural Extension Officer, Hemtabad 
for “‘Agricultwal Tuspector, Hemtabad” and 1 
“Agricultural Extension Officer, Kaliaganj’’ fe 
“Agricultural Inspector, Kaliaganj’’. 


2. This notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 


the 18th day of April 1966. 


By order of the Governor, 
9. BANERJEE, Setv 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 87.) 
— ল্ল্ল্ল227875272.8..ু..7..এ 82 as 
Howrah.—No. 1i8Q2L.Ref.—4th July 1956.— 24-Parganas.--No. = 120341, Dev.—l0th [كل‎ 


In esercise of the power conferred by the first pro- 
viso to paragraph 1 of Schedule B to the West 
Bengal Mstates Acquisition Rules, 1954, the 
Governor is pleased hereby to give permission for 
amalgamating the following steps with each other, 
being steps referred to in items (111) and (iv) of the 
8010 paragraph, in preparing, in pursuance of the 
Government of West Bengal, Land and land 
Revenue Department order No. 11820L.Ref., dated 
the 4th July 1956, the records-of-rights under the 
West Bengal states Acquisition Act, 1953, in res- 
pect of certain areas of the district of Tlowrah as 
specified in the said order, namely :— 


Steps. 


(i) Preliminary record-writing (or Khanapur’) ; 
and 
(ii) Local explanation (or Bujharat), 


By order of the Governor, 
77. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Land Development 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Malda.—No. 12022L.Dev.—l0th July 1090. 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so much of 
notification No. 11108-L.Dev., dated the 14th 
June 1995, under section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land Development and Planning Act, 1948 (Weat 
Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at pages 
9571-2572, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
the 80th June 1955, as relates to a piece of land 
comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 227,233, 
234 and 2:47, measuring, more or less, 1.62 acres 
mt respect of acquisition of land in the village 
of Bachamari, jurisdiction list No. 104, police- 
station Malda, district Malda, for the settlement 
of immigrants who have migrated Into the State 
of West Bengal on account of 128 
کا‎ yond their control. 


Birbhum.—No. 12032L.Dev.—]0th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears io the Gtovernor that land_jy.. 
\kely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., for 
the statement of immigrants who have migrated 
ite the State of West Bengal on account of eir- 
cumstances beyond their control in the village of 
Kurumsaba, jurisdiction list No. 158,  police- 
station Saithia, district Birbhum, it is hereby 
notified that for the above purpose pieces of lund 
comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 176, 111, 


178, 184, 186, 193, 194, 196, 196, 197, 198, 
199, 200, 211, 606, 724, 775, 776, 77, 809, 
818, 820, 881, 828, 1503, 1604, 1505, 1509, 


1544, 1560, 1570, 1h71, 1572, 1573, 1574, 1575, 
1576, 1682, 1584, 1587, 1588, 1589, 1590, 1629, 
1049, 1658, 1659, 1660, 1662, 1663, 1664, 1665, 
1666, 1675, 1680, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1685, 
1089, 1690, 1741, 1742, 1748, 1746, 1901, 1902, 
1903, 1920, 1986, 1937, 2217, 2674, 2776, 3306, 
8808, 3309 and altogether measuring, more or less, 
89.29 neres are likely to be required within. the 
uforesaid village of Kurumsaha. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
Of section 4 of the Weat Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
Kuid section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the Collector, Birbhum, and the Refugee Rehabi- 
itution Cominissione:, West Bengal, for the time 
cing engagod in the undertaking. with their 
Officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the Jand and do all other acts required or 
Permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
000 of the Collector, Birbhum. 


1956.—TLhe Governor is pleased to cancel so muc 
of the notification No. 154041,,.Dev., dated the 
12th August 1955, under section 4 of the West 
Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 
1948 (West Bengal Act AXI of 1948), published 
at page 6278, Part | of the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
the 25th August 1955, us relates to acquisition of 
purt of cadastral survey plot No. 38789 of village 
Sukehar, measuring, .20 of an acre of land in the 
village of Sukcehar, jur sdiction list No. 9, polive- 
station Khardah, district 24-Parganas. 


24-Parganas.—No, = 12992], Dev.—17th == July 
1956.—W hereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely io he needed for a public yurpose, 
viz., tor the settlement of immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on recount 
of circumstance: beyond their contro] in the 
villaves of Dhelua, jurisdiction list No. 43 
Tentulbaria, jurisdiction list No. 44 and alia, 
jurisdiction list No. 46, molice-station Sonarpur 
aud Chukgaria, jurisdiction list No. 26, police- 
stution Tollygunge, disiriot 24-lurpanas, it 1s 
hereby notified that for the above purpose pieces 
of land comprising cadastral survey splot Nos, s82 
to 341, 374, 370 to 382 and 387 to 390 of 
village Dhelua, cadastral survey plot Nos. 157, 
to 176, 178 to 227, 229, 240, 283 to 239, 21 to 
245, 265, 1060 and 1075 of village Tentulbaria, 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 417 to 419, 421 to 426, 
431 to 449, 456 to 460, 779 to 783 and 785 to 7٦ 
of village PBalia and cadastral survey plot 
Nor. 180, 185, 186, 190 to 207, 209, 213 to 217, 
219 to 225 and parts of cadastral survey splot 
Nos. 218 and 230 of village Chakgaria and 
altogether measuring, more or less, 84.84 ucres 
are likely to be required within the aforesaid 
villages of Dhelua, Tentulbaria, Balia and Chak- 
garia. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
51 of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the power conferred hy the 
aforesaid section the Governor is pleased ۵٥ 
authorise the Collector, 24-Pargunas, and Refugee 
Rehabilifation Commissioner, West Bengal, tor 
the time being engaged in the undertaking, with 
their officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon 
and survey the land and do all other acts required 
or permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, 24-Parganas, 


. By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Requisition 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 11474Regn.—27th June, 1906.—Whereas 
the property specified in the schedule helow was 
requisitioned for a public purpose, being a pur- 
pose of the Union under section 5 of the Requisi- 
tioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property 
Act, 19652 (XXX of 1942); 

And whereas no agreement fixing the amount 
of compensation payable for such requisition can 
he reached 5 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power 901)- 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 
8 of thy Requisitioning and Acquisition of 
Tmmovabie Property Act, 19652 (XXX of 1952), 
read with the Government of India, Ministry of 
Works, Housing and Supply, notification 
No. 1608-KIT/53 (১,1৮0, 904), dated the 9th May, 
1943, the Governor 14 pleased to appoint Shri 
(7. S. Chatterjee, Additional District aud Sessions 


2876 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 ene 1 
2 পিউ পা he eS وسنے۔‎ পর পা 


Judge, 24-Pargavas, who is qualified for appuint- 
ment ag a 18486 of a High Court, as au Arbitra- 
tor for determining the amount of compensation 
referred to iu the said scction in respect of tlhe 
said property. 

The Schedule. 


Premises No. 66, Uppor Cir- Shri Abdul Majid, 66 Upper 


cular Road (‘ground and Circular Road, Calcutta. 


lst floors of the main build- 
ing), Calcutta. 


No. 11980Reqn.—G6th July 1956.—Whereas the 
premisey specified in the schedule below, were 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of 
the West Bengal Premises Requisition and Control 
(Temporary Provisions) Act, 1947; 

And whereas no agreement can be reached, in 
respect of the amount of the monthly compensa- 
tion payable on account of such requisition vt the 
said premises; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by 0188 (0) of sub-section (1) of section 11] 
of the said Act, the Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri N. 0. Chakravarti, Additional District and 
sessions Judge, 24-Parganas, as an Arbitrator for 
the determination 8 the amount of such 
compensaion. 

whe Schedula 

Premises No. 9, Lansdowne Lane (portion of the 
ground floor consisting of two bed rvoins, hall, 
bath-cum-privy and kitchen, etc.), Calcutta— 
Shrimati Bimala Banerjee, 5 Lansdowne Laue, 
Calcutta-26 (owner). 


By order of the Governor, 
R. M. SAMANTA, Asst. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Agriculture 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 7345Agri.—4th July 1956.—The term of 
the Governing Body of the State College of Agri- 
culture constituted in notification No, 10204- 
Agri, dated the 14th October 1953, having expired 
on the 50th June 1956, the Governor 18 pleased 10 
reconstitute it with the following persons :— 


(1) Dr. J. N. Mukherji, D.Se., F.N.I.. 
Administrator, West. Bengal Board of 
Secondery Education and Scientific 
Adviser to the (tovernment of West 
Bengal—President. 

(2) District Magistrate, 24-Parganas (er officio) 
—Vice-President. 

(9). Joint Director of Agriculture (General), 
West Bengal (ex 01019). 

(4) Miss Mira Datta Gupta, M.A., J.P., 
M.1.A., Vice-Principal, Surendra Nath 
Jollege. 

(5) Dr. B. C, Guha, D.Se., F.N.T., Head of 
the Department of Applied Chemistry, 
Calcutta University. 

(6) Shri Arun Kumar Mukherji, Bar-at-Law, 
1.0.3. (Retd.), 

(7) Shri নি. M. Fazlur Rahman, ...تا‎ M.1.A., 
Vice-President, Distriet School Board, 
Nadia. 

(8) Shri ظط‎ N. Sarker, Retired Director of 
Agriculture, Bihar. 

(9) Dr. P. K. Sen, M.Se., Ph.D. <{ondon), 
D.I.C., Khaira Professor of Agriculture, 
Calcutta University. 

(10) Dr. T. Sen, Dr. Ing. (Munich), A.M.M.E. 
(ডি বাদি, 0,105. (000), 

Jadavpur University. 


Rector, 


(11) Dr. J. ©. Sen Gupta, M.Sc. (Cal.), Dr. 
Phil. Nat, (Heidelberg), Chief Botanist, 
Botunical Survey. of India. 

(12) Dr. نا ہلا‎ Sikka, “B.Sc. (Ag.). PhD. 
(Glasgow), Assoc. I1.).1., Milk Commis- 
sioner, West Bengal. 

(13) and (14) Two elected representatives of 
the teaching staff of the College. 

(15) Frincipal of the College (ex officio)— 
Secretary. 

The elected representative of the teaching staff 
wi] hold office for one year, while the other 
members will hold office for three years with 
chect ہا‎ the Ist July 1956, 


No. 7602Apri.—12th July 1956.—The Governor 
having been pleased to allow Dr. M. A. 
Krishnaswaimi, Bacterivlogist, Central Livestock 
Research-cum-Breeding Station, Haringhata, to 
withdraw his resignation, the Agriculture, Animal 
Husbandry and Forests Department notification 
No. 6188, dated the Gth June 1956, is hereby 
cancelled. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, Secy. 


ہی یی 


Miscellaneous 


NOTITICATION 


No. 7615Mise.—12th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to grant Shri Nihar Chandra Chokra- 
varti, Officer on Special Duty and ev officio Deputy 
Secretary m the Agriculture, Animal Husbandry 
and Forests Department and Deputy Secretary, 
Fisheries Department of the Government of West 
Bengal, leuve on average pay for five days from the 
10th July 1956 to the 1461) July 1906, under rule 
18401)) (51) of the West Bengal Service Rules. 
Part I. 

By order of the Governor, 


R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATION 
Co-operation 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No, 2459Co-op. /8A-25/56.—17th duly 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by section 140 
of the Bengal (Co-operative Societies Act, 1940 
(Bengal Act XXI of 1940), the Governor টি 
pleased to make, after previous publication 8 
required by sub-section (J) of the said section, the 
following amendment in the Bengal Co-operative 
Societies Rules, 1942, as subsequently amended 
(hereinafter referred to as the said rules), 

namely سے ؛‎ 
Amendments 
After clause (b) of sub-rule (Z) of rule 2 of 


the said rules, insert the following clauses, 
namely :— 
“(6b) ‘Deputy Registrar of Co-operative 


Sucieties’ means the person appointed by 
that designation by the State (Jovernment 
to assist the Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies ; 

(bbb) ‘Assistant Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies’ means the person appointed by 
that designation hy the State (rovern- 
ment to nasist the Registrar of (o- 
operative Societies ; 

(bbbb) ‘District Auditor of Co-operative 
Societies’ means the person appointed 
by that designation by the State Glovert- 
ment to assist the Registrar of Co- 
operative Societies.” 


By order of the Governor, 
A. MITRA, Secy. 


Part 11 


শি পপ আজ tt‏ سس کت 


ERRATUM 


490Co-op.—6th July 1956.—In this depart- 
oh বত No. 2188Co-op., dated the 4th 
Pai 1956, published at page 2107 of the Calcuttu 
Gazette, Part I, dated 7th June 1956, for ‘‘under 
date of publication of these rules substitute the 
following” read “under notification No. 1689Co- 
0]. dated the 4th A'pril 1956, namely’’; and for 
৪30 days” read “thirty days”. 


By order of the Governor, 


M. A. GANI, Dy. Secy. 


শিক্ষা বিভাগ । 
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 


[শিক্ষা । 


Education 


প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলখ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Calcutta,— No. 7153Edn. /4A-20/66.—5th July 
1966.—Shri Debabrata Mukherjee, M.A., 18 
appointed to act until further orders as Associate 
Lecturer in English, Bengal Engineering College, 
in the West Bengal General Service with effect 
from the date on which he joins the post. 


মোঁদনশপর جے‎ ৭২২১াশিক্ষা।৪এ-১০২।৫৬।--৫ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।- 

777. রাজ কলেজের পাশচমবঙ্গা অবর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের (AA ভাগ) 
অর্থীবদ্যার উপাধ্যায় শ্রীরাখালদাস দত্ত পদত্যাগ করায় এ পদে ও এ 
aoe শ্রীবকাশকালশ বসু, এম,একে ৪ঠা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ অথবা 
পরবর্তী যোগদানের তাঁরখ হইতে পুনরাদেশ .حم‎ >5 
নিয়াগ করা হইল। 


Midnapore.—No. 7221Edn. /4A-102/56.—b5th 
July 1966.—Shri Bikash Kali Bose 1s appointed 
to act as Lecturer in Economics, Jhargram Raj 
College, in the West Bengal Junior Educa- 
tional Service (Men’s Branch) with effect from 
the 4th July 1956 or any subsequent date on which 
he joins the duties of the post there mice Shri 
te Das Dutta, resigued or until further 
orders, 


ফালকাতা-নাঁদক্সা।_নং ৭২৪২াশিক্ষা। ৪এ-৮। ৫৫-৫৬1--১০ই জুলাই 
১১৫৬।-_কাঁলকাতা প্রোসডোল্স কলেজের পাঁশ্চমবঙ্গ শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের 
(aa বিভাগ) প্রাণীবদ্যার অস্থায়শী সহ-অধ্যাপক শ্রীতারাচাঁদ নন্দী, 
এম O-PS এ পদে ও এ কৃতাকে WOM. মে ১৯৫৬ Silay হইতে 
۶7 'নয়োগ করা হইল; কিন্তু তান পুনরাদেশ প্যন্তি FRAT 
কলেছে তাঁহার বর্তমান পদে কার্য করিবেন। 

রাজ্যপালের আদেশান,সারে, 

ভি, এস, সেন, | 
সাঁচব। 


Calcutta-Nadia.—No.  7242Edn. /4A-8/55-56.— 


Oth July 1956.—Shri Tarachand Nandi, M.Sc., . 


officiating Assistant Professor of Zoology 
Tesidency College, Calcutta, in the West Bengal 
ucational Service (Men’s Branch), is appointed 


su stantively to that post and in that service with 


ect from the 29th May 1956; but he will conti- 
65 to work in his ep post at the Krishnagar 
. lege until further orders. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2877 


CORRIGENDUM 


No. 728Edn. /9P-136/55.—10th July 1956.— 
Under the-heading ‘“West Dinajpur” of notifica- 
tion No. 1986Edn., dated the 23rd February 1956, 
as published on page 893 of the Calcutta নি 
dated the 15th March 21950, regarding appointment 
of District Social Education Officer— 


For ‘‘Pranab Bhattacharyya’’ please read 
‘Pranab Kumar Bhattacharyya”’. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. M. SEN, Secy. 


Office of the Accountant-General, West Bengal 


NOTIFICATION 


Subject :—Small Savings Scheme—Lodging of 
National Savings Certificates in 019 068. 
suries. 


No. TM/566.—6th July 1956.—It has been 
decided by the National Savings Commissioner 
that there is no objection to an authorised agent 
depositing National Savings Certificates in the 
treasury in case of the death of the investor in 
the intervening period of collection of the amount 
and delivery of certificates. In such cases, the 
entry to be made by the Treasury Officer in the 
space provided on the reverse of the authorised 
agents’ official receipt book for the purchaser's 
receipt will be to the following effect :— 


“The purchaser feing dead, certified that the 
certificate has been duly lodged for safe 
custody at this treasury.” 


All Treasury and Sub-treasury Officers in West 
Bengal are requested to note the above instructions. 


P. KHANNA, Dy. Accountant-General.‏ .لا 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTICE 


Appellate Side 
Leave. 


Birbhum.—No. 4405A.—13th July 1956.—The 
orders contained in the Court’s notification 
No. 6387A., dated the 12th June 1956, allowing 
She" 480981) Chandra Chakrabartti, lately Munsif 
of solpur in the district of Birbhum, eurned leave 
under rule 171(a) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I, for thirteen days from the 2nd to 
the 14th July 1956, are hereby cancelled. 


No. 4458G.—16th July 1956.—The Hon'ble the 
Chief Justice has been pleased to grant Shri 
Tarapada Mookerji, B.A., First Assistant Regis- 
trar, High Court, Appellate Side, Calcutta, leave 
preparatory to retirement, on average pay, uuder 
1149 82(b) of the Fundamental Rules read with 
rule 81(b)(ii) ibid, for four months from the lst 
November 1956 to the 28th February 1967. 


K. 0. SEN, Registrar. 


2878 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr ] 


SS তি রা 


No. 4471G.—17th July 1956.—The following amendments which have 
been made by the High Court at Calcutta in the “Rules of the High 
Court, Appellate Side, 1986 (Seventh Edition)’’, are published for general 


information :— 
۰ Amendments 
I. Page 25, Chapter V, Proviso to Rule 2(f) (as inserted by Slip 


No. 1)— 
For the words ‘‘file’’ and ‘‘filed’’ in lines 10 and 11 substitute the words 


make’’ and ‘‘made’’, respectively. 


II. Page 25, Chapter V, Rule 2(h) (as inserted by Slip No. 276)— 


At the end of the clause add the following :— 


“Any omission to make this note shal] be forthwith reported to the 
Registrar for orders.’ 


III. Page 25, Chapter V— 


After the ‘“‘Note” to Rule 2 insert the following as Rule 2A:— 


‘2A. In ihe case of First and Second Appeals from decrees in 
which the note given in the memorandum of appeal by the 
filing Advocate under clause (h) of Rule 2 of this Chapter, 
সী that the number of respondents to the appeal who did 
not appear in the lower court 1s five or more, নি minor 
or lunatic respondents, the office shall put up the same on 
the Lawazima List of the Registrar immediately or as soon 
as possible after the registration of the First Appeal, or after 
the admission of the Second Appeal under Order 41, Rule 11 
of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908, as the case may be, with 
the necessary office note, so that the Registrar may, in exercise 
of his powers under Rule 2(26) of Chapter II of these Rules. 
ass suo motu the order under Order 41, Rule 14(3) of the 
Givil Procedure Code in the presence of the Advocate for the 
appellant, for dispensing with service of notice of appeal on 
the respondents who had not appeared in the court below.” 


K. C. SEN, 
Registrar. 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF DIVISIONS 
Burdwan Division—Chinsura 
OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MACISTRATE, BIRBHUM. 
NOTIFICATION. 
No. 6410J.G.—6th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information that in the union board of the distri 
of Birbhum specified in column 1 of the table below the person named in column 2 of the said table has been duly 


elected to be a member of that union board from the wards specified against him under the provisions of the ٦7 
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the table :— 


Name of union board, police-station | Name of personand ward from which Elected and provisions of law 


and subdivision. elected. under which elected. 
{ 
1 2 3 
Mahadari union board, Labpur police. Ward No. 11I—Shri Santiram Mondal Under provision of section 13 ہ‎ 
station, Sadar subdivision. of Bheria (vice Bhupati Bhusan the Village Self-Governmen! 
Mandal, deceased). Act, 1919 (Act V of 1919). 
Bara Kalikapur union board, Nanoor Ward No. I1I—Shri Panchanan Ghose Ditto. 
police-station, Sadar subdivision. of Mohanpur (vice Kali Kinkar 


Samanta, deceased). 


ILLEGIBLE, 
for District Magistrate. 


০০০ 


No. 20673.G.—14th July 1956.—Shri Amulya placed at the disposal of, Government, Home 
oe 19 Sub-Deputy دی سی از‎ (Defence) Department. 

ub-Deputy Collector, Howrah Sadar, is posted to ০1 7 ah ۶ mublic 
the Uluberia subdivision in the district of Howrah চি 0 ۱ 


for employment as Circle Officer, Amta, in place 7 
of Shri S. B. Banerjee whose services have been B. SARKAR, Commissionet- 


Part J] 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MAGISTRATE OF 
HOOCHLY 


NOTIFICATION 


Under rule 108) of the Rules for the Consti- 
tution of the Governing 11 of the Government 
High Schools (page 198 of the Bengal Education 
Code, 1931) Shri Sanker Prosad Mukherjee 
Jamindar, Uttarpara (belonging to the family o 
late Raj Kissen Mukherjee, donor), is appointed 
as a representative of parents and guardians of 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2879 


pupils to hold office as a member of the Managing 
Committee of Uttarpara Government High 
School, district Hooghly, from the date of 
publication of this notification in the Calcutta 
Gazette, up to 3lst March 1957 in the vacanc 

caused by the death of Shri Mohendra Nath 
Mukherjee, who was appointed under the notifica- 
tion published in the Calcutta Gazette on 18৮ April 
1954 (page 1008, Part I). 


S. M. BHATTACHARYA, 
District Magistrate. 


FORM “HH”. 
NOTICE. 
Burdwan, the Ist July 1956. 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate No. 777L.A., dated 12th 
September 1942, with effect from 12th September 
1942 until further order of the Central Govern- 
ment; 

And whereas, the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 

And whereas, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the 


Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable 
Property Act, 1952 (No. XXX of 1952), I, 
Shri A. K. Sen, I1.A.8., District Magistrate, 
being competent authority under the said Act 
have specified Shrimati Hembala Devi and 
others as the persons to whom possession of the 
said property shall be given; 

And whereas, the said Shrimati Hembala Devi 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 
other person empowered to accept delivery on 
their behalf; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers cont 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. .کا‎ Sen, I.A.8S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property 18 
released from requisition. 


Schedule. 


Serial Name of mauza. 
No, survey 
plot No. 
1 Dubchururia, jurisdiction list No. 55, police- 960 
station Ondal, district Burdwan. 122 


Cadastral Area. 


Name of owners. 


1-51 Hembala Devi, wife of Durgagati Roy of Jagurband. 


Ramsankar Hazra, son of Ramkinkar Hazraof Kajona,‏ 22ء 
Shambhu Nath Hazra, son of Rameswar Hazra,‏ 
Basanta Kumar Mukherjee, son of Trailakya Mu-‏ 
kherjee of Bhiringee, Balaram Chatterjeo, son of‏ 
Gour Sundar Chatterjee of Kuldiha, Harihar Nayek,‏ 
Kashinath, Babapada Nayek, 8008 of late Rajani‏ 
Kanta Nayek of Dubchururia, Shyamapada Pande,‏ 
son of Gour Sundar Pande.‏ 


FORM “H”. 
NOTICE. 
Burdwan, the lst July 1956. 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
ereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate No. 141D.1., dated 29th 
July 1943, with effect from Ist April 1943 until 
urther order of the Central Government; 

And whereas, the Central Government have 
decided that the said property, shall be released 
Tom requisition ; 

And whereas, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the 
Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable 


Property Act, 1952 rae XXX of 19652), I, 
Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Magistrate, 
being competent authority. under the said Act 
have specified Shri Rebati Raman Dey and 
others as the persons to whom possession of the 
said property shall be given; 


And whereas, the said Shri Rebati Raman Dey 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 
other person empowered to accept delivery on 
their behalf; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the pewers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property 18 
released from requisition. 


Schedule. 
Cadastral 
Serial Namo of mauza. survey Area, Namo of owners, 
No, plot 
No. 
1 Ondal, jurisdiction No. 62, police-station 150 -38 Rebati Raman Dey, son of Rameswar Dey. 
Ondal, district Burdwan. 

2 Ditto - ٦ ا‎ 3080 1-54 Krishna Mondasonl, of unknown of Dignala. 

3 Ditto টন 72 3242 0৮5 Dwizendra Mondal, son of Upendra Mondal of Dignala. 

4 Ditte 185 -17 Sashi Bhusan Layek, son of Madhab Oh. Layek of 

ঃ Bhadur. 


199 


+22 


2880 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Part 1 


AI ১০০০০ তল شش چس‎ IPT جس ےی شف‎ TEETER TE ১ এস 
সপ teagan nee anenpranrpeenaeone = cere ae a PSA GS sh ae سے‎ 


FORM “H”, 


NOTICE. 
Burdwan, the lst July 1956. 


Whereasthe property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate No. 182D.I., dated 29th 
July 1943, with effect from February 1943 until 
further order of the Central Government; 


And whereas, the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be “released 
from requisition; 


And whereas, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the 


Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable 
Property Act, 1952 ee XXX of 1952), I, 
Shn A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Magistrate, 
being competent authority under the said Act 
have specified Shri aradhan Hazra and 
others as the persons to whom possession of the 
said property shall be given; 

And whereas, the said Shri Tfaradhon Tlazra 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 


other person empowered to accept delivery on 
their behalf; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Mugis. 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Schedule. 
Serial Name of mauza. Cadastral Area, Name of owners. 
No. survey 
plot No. 
1 Dakshinkhanda, jurisdiction list No. 6, 5555 -53 Haradhan Hazra, son of Haridas ۰ 
police-station Ondal, district Burdwan, 5556 30 
5650 92ء‎ 
2 Ditto oe ee 5557 923 Gosta Behari Chatterjee, son of Tinkari Chatterjeo, 
8 Ditto 7 ne 4993 -24 Sushila Bala Debi, wife of Narendra Nath Banerjee. 
Sr Fire 


می و FORM‏ 


NOTICE. 
Burdwan, the 3rd July 1956. 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate No. 134D.I., dated 29th 
July 1943, with effect from 1st April 1943 until 
further order of the Central Governmett; 


And whereas, the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the 


Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable 
Property Act, 1952 ee XXX of 1952), I, 
Shn <A. K. Sen, 1۸.۵. District Magistrate, 
being competent authority under the said Act 
have specified Shri Kshudiram Dey and 
others as the persons to whom possession of the 
said property shall be given; 

And whereas, the said Shri Kshudiram Dey 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 
sree pene empowered to accept delivery on their 

ehalf; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
‘Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property 15 
released from requisition. 


Schedule. 
Serial Name of mauza. Cadastral Area, Name of owners. - 
No, , _ survey 
plot No. 
1 Bhadur, jurisdiction list No. 42, police-station 894 -06 Kashudiram Dey, Sitaram Dey, sons of Kunja Behar! 
Ondal. 896 ১৪] Dey, 
1102 1-20 
2 Ditto oe ٠ oe 900 :14 Badal Ch. Roy, son of Jagannath Ray. 
Ditto oe os oe 909 -23 Keshudiram Dey, son of Fakir Ch. Dey. 
972 “10 
913 ء۳٦‎ 
4 Ditto a pa 1102 1-20 Heri Charan Dey, son of Suryya Narayan Dey. 
Pr) Ditto oe ee oe 1080 1:30 Lalita Dasi, wife of Radha Gobinda Das, Madan Mobar 
1089 30 Das, Kalipade Das, sons of Fulkishan Dag, Mukunde 
1092 1:74 Das, Murali Das, sons of Narayan Daas. 
6 Ditto 7 7 দু 109? -67 Chapala Tala Dasi, wife of Ram Sankar Dey 
Monohar Dey, Gour Ch. Dey. 
7 Ditto রর এ ee 1105 88 Fela Ram Mondal and others. 
1108 21 
1113 -40 
111 1-12 
8 Ditto 7 ie pe 749 +23 Kalipada Nandi, son of Ashutosh Nandi of 73700081980 
pur, district Bankura. 
9 Ditto “ 7 و‎ 1062 -08 Ram 10018] Hajra, son of Rampada Hajra of 10810: 
10 Ditto na -7 7 813 -10 Kali Ram Kundu, son of Gobardhan Kundu. 


A. KE. SEN, Collector. 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 2881 


ee  _ یپبیےےییمممیمیمب-۔۔۔۔ے۔‎ 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, 


Western Range 
No. §290.—28th June 1956.—Birbhum-D.E.B., 
Howrah-Burdwan,—Shri Dwarika Prasad Singha 
[nspector, Birbhum, now temporarily attached io 
1779, Howrah, is, in the interest of the public 
wervice, temporarily transferred to Burdwan, vice 
shri Probodh Chandra Nag, Inspector, Burdwan. 
proceeding on leave, 
[0 move at once. 
purdwan.—Shri  VProbodh § Chandra Nag, 
Inspector, Burdwan, is grauted ninety days’ earn- 
ed leave under rule 101(11) of the Weat Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, with eftect from the date 
of availing himself of the same. 


Birbhum. Shri YPwarika ۳۴٥۸۵۹ Singha, 
Inspector, Birbhum, now on temporary transfer 
io 1).10.13., Howrah, 1s granted three days’ leave 


00 average pay under rule 184(b)(ii) of the West 
Bengal Servicco Rules, Part I, in extension of the 
leave granted in notification No. 4699, dated 
%h June 1956, published in the Calcutta Gazette, 
dated the 2lst June 1956. 


Howrah.—Shri Sudhir Chandra  Banarji, 
(098021১0100 Reserve Office Inspector, Howrah, is 
granted seven days’ leave on half average pay on 
medical certificate under rule 173(1) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part [, in extension of the 
leave granted fo him in_ notification No. 4486, 
dated 3lst May 1956, published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, duted 218 June 1956. 


No. 5630.—5th July 1956.—D.1.B., Serampore 
(Hooghly).—Shri Kshetra Mohan Mubharji, offi- 
cating Inspector, District Iutelligence Branch, 
Serampore (Hooghly), now on leave, is granted 
thirty days’ leave on half average pay on miedical 
certificate under rule 173(1) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, in extension of the leave 
already granted to bim in notification No. 3974, 
dated 1161) May 1966, published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 24th May 1956. 


9. M. GHOSH, Dy. Inspr.-Genl. 


Presidency Division—Calcutta 
No. 1335M .—17th July 1956.—It is 
herehy notified under section 650 01 the 


Bengal Municipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 
1932), that Shri Krishna Sekhar Bose and Shri 
Nilkantha Mukherjee were duly elected Chairman 
and Vice-Chairman, respectively, of the Birnagar 
Municipality in the district of Nadia on 26th 


June 1966. 
K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR, NADIA 
Draft Cancollation Notification 


The 7th July, 1956 


Whereas by notification published at page 3361, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the Ist 
September 1955, I required all persons interested 
in the waste lands specified therein to show cause 
within the prescribed time, why the waste lands 
should not be requisitioned ; 


And whereas after considering all euch petitions 
me after making further enquiry, I am satisfied 

at the waste lands shown below, mentioned in 

৪ aforesaid should not be 
Tequisitioned : 

t Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
erred on me under sub-section (3) of section 4 of 
9 Waste Lands Requisitioning and Utilisation 

01968, I hereby cancel partly the aforesai 
دہ ذاہ٥ ا‎ in so far as it relates to entire 
25880] survey plot Nos. 26, 27, 156, 187, 611, 
and 1082, and part of cadastral survey plot 

11 24, 109, 118, 126, 179, 324, 602, 1093 and 
2 of mauza Routhhati, jurisdiction list No, 57, 
Tg Station Karimpur, distiict Nadia, measuring 


(8 acres, 
M. C. MUKHERJEE, Collector. 


notification, 


Central Range  : 


No. 4076.—10th July 1956.—Nadia-C. R. P., 
Sealdah - Malda.-—(1) Sub-Inspector, Bhupati 
Bhushan (thosh of Nadia is, in the interest 91 
public service, temporarily transferred to G. R. P., 
Sealdah, and appotuted to act ay ay Jpspectpr in 
the said district with effect frou the date he takes 
over charge, vice Shri Mrinal Kanti Lay, Iuspec- 
tor, G. R. P., Sealdah, promated ta act as Deputy 
Superintendent of Police, Malda. 


(2) Sub-Inspector Binay Kumar Banarji of 
Nadia is temporarily appointed to aét as Inspector 
in the D. E. B., of the said district with effect 
from the date he takes over the charge in one of 
the posts sanctioned in G.O. No. 719/ACK/1E- 
9/56, dated 2nd March 19.6. 


M. A. H. MASWOUD, Dy. Inspr.-Genl. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMSSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. /80671C.T. /210-54/55-56.—Tih July 1956. 
—Shri A. K. Sarkar,.1.R.8., Ist Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Distriet 1 2) Calcutta, is, 
with effect from the afternoon of 27th J une 1956 
und in addition to his own duties, appointed to 
hold the charge of the Income-tax (Officer of the 
yame district during the absence on leave uf Shri 
Narinder Singh, 1.1, | 

Qn return from leave, Shri Narinder, Singh, 
1.R.S., Income-tax Officer, will be re-posted as 
Charge Income-tax Officer, istrict 11 (2); Calcutta, 
relieving Shri A. K. Sarkaty I.R.8.) 14 Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, of this additional 
charge. 


No. I/32481C.T. /2E/2/56-57.—14th July 1956. 
—The services of the undermentioned officers 
attached to the office of the Commissioner of 
Tucome-tax, West Bengal, are placed at the dis- 
posal of the Commissioner of Income-tax, Calcutta, 
with immediate effect. 


url Mohendra Chandra Das, 
Officer, Class IT. 


Shri Premballav Sen, Income-tax Officer, Class 


Income-tax, 


Shri Sachidananda Lahiri, Income-tax Officer, 
Class II 


Shri Ajit Kumar Sen, Income-tax Officer, 
Class II 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTA: 


ORDERS 


No. E/27071C.T. /2E-80/55-56.—3rd July 1956. 
—Shri S. N. Mukherjee, Ist Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District IV(3), Calcutta, is, with 029 
from the afternoon of the 26th June 1956 and m 
addition to his own duties, cathe to hold the 
charge of the 4th Additional Income-tax Officer 
of the same district during the absence on leave 
of Shri J..C. Mendiratha, 1.۰ 

2. On return from leave, Shri J.C. Mendiratha, 
I.R.S., Income-tax Officer, will be re-posted as 4th 
Additional Income-tax Officer, District 1V(3), 
Calcutta, relieving Shri S. N. Mukherjee, Ist 
Additional Income-tax Officer, of this additional 
charge. 


2882 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


No. A/C€.81387C.T. /2E/105/54-65.—llth July 
1956.—Shri R. P. Dobe, Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District V-A, Calcutta, is allowed, under 
the Revised Leave Rules, 1999, earned leave for 
fifteen days with effect from 2186 June 1956 to 
Sth July 1966. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the most 
from which he proceeded on leave or to a ٥٥ 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


Tt is further certified that the officer would have 
continued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 
Officer, Class II, but for his proceeding on above 
earned leave. 


8. P. JAIN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX (CENTRAL), CALCUTTA 


ORDERS. 
No. A-3897/C.T.C. /2E-10/55-56.—9th July 1956. 


—Shri A. B. Prasad, Income-tax Officer, Central 
Circle XV, Calcutta, is granted earned leave for 
a further period of seven days with effect from 
the 3rd June 1956 to 9th June 1956 with permis- 
sion to sufix Sunday, the 10th June 1956, in con- 
tinuation of the leave already granted in this 
office order No. 1607/C.T.C. /2E-10/55-56, dated 
the 7th May 1956. 


2, Shri 5. N. Mathur, Income-tax Officer, 
Central Circle XVII, Calcutta, will hold charge 


[Parr } 


Calcutta, in addition to his own vice Shri A, B 
Prasad, on leave. 
3. It is certified that on the expiry of hj, 


leave Shri Prasad will return to the post troy 
which he proceeded on leave. 


of the Income-tax Officer, Central Circle Xy. 


No, <A-42210.T.C./2K-3/56-57.—16th July 
1956.—Shri A. K. Bose, puty Director gf 
Inspection (Investigation), who has heen tran. 
ferred to this charge from the office of the 
Director of Inspection (Investigation), Noy 
Delhi, by the Central Board of Revenue, in they 
order }'-No, 27/14/58-Adm. VI, dated 3rd May 
1966, 18) with effect from the 2nd July 1060 
(forenoon) appointed to hold charge of the Ing. 
pecting Assistant Commissioner of Income-tay, 
Range-II (Central), Calcutta, relieving Shri মু 
Srinivasan, Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 0 
Income-tax, Range-III (Central), of the addi. 
tional charge of Range-II (Central), Calcutta, 
held by him. 


No. 4296C.T.C. /2E-1/56-57,—18th নথ) 
1956.—Shri A. Nundy, Income-tax — Officer, 
Central Circle XVIII, Calcutta, was granted 
earned leave for fourteen days with effect from 
the 13th June 1956 to 26th June 1956 in continna. 
tion of the leave already granted in this 01006 
order No. 2815AC.T.C. /2H-1/56-57, dated 7th 
June 1956. 


2. Shri A. Nundy has been reported as Income 
tax Officer, Central Circle XVIII, Calcutta, 
with effect from the forenoon of 27th June 1956 
relieving Shri R. 8. Gahlot, Income-tax Officer, 
Central Circle XII, Calcutta, of the additional 
charge held by him. 


V. 59. K. D. NADAR, 0687 


Pant I] THI CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2883 


রি AND LAND (46) No. 20561E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(47) No. 20563E.P.A., dated 20th April 1955. 
UBL NOTION 17 OF TH Fae oe @) (48) No, 20565E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
EVACUEE PROPERTY ACT, 1951. (49) No. 20567E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
NOTICES. (50) No. 20569E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 
(1) No. 20449E.P.A., dated 22nd April 6۰ (61) No. 20571E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(2) No. 20451E.P.A., dated 2554 April 1955. (62) No. 20573E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
رم‎ No. 20453E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (6৭) No. 20575E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
(4) No. 20455E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (54) No. 20577E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(5) No. 20457E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1966. (65) No. 20579E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
(6) No. 20459E.P.A., dated 25700 April 1955. (56) No. 20581E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(7) No. 20461E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (57) No. 20583E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(8) No. 20468E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (98) No, 20585E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(9) No. 20487E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (59) No. 20587E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(10) No. 20489E.P.A., dated 2৫00 April 1955. (60) No. 20589E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(11) No. 20491E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (61) No, 20591E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
(12) Na. 90493E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (62) No. 20593E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955.: 
(13) No. 20495E.P.A., dated 2énd April 1966. (63) No. 20595E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(14) No. 20497E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (64) No. 20597E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
15) No. 20499E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (65) No. 20599E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
(16) No. 20H01E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (66) No. 20601E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(11) No. 20508E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1966. (67) No. 20603E.P.A., dated 29th April 19655. 
(18) No. 20505E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (68) No. 20605E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(19) No. 20507K.P.A., dated 22nd April 1956. (69) No. <O607E.P.A., dated 29th April 1958. 
20) No. 20509E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (70) No. 20609E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
1) No. 20511E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (71) No. 20611E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 
26) No, 20513E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (72) No. 20613E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(23) No, 20515E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (73) No. £0615E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(24) No. 20A17E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1959. (14) No. 20617E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
(95) No. 20519E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1986. (75) No. 20619E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 
2) No. 20621E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1956. (76) No. Q0621E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
27) No. 20528E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (77) No. 20623E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
28) No. 20525E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (78) No. 20625K.P.A., dated 29th April 1990. 
29) No. 20527E.P.A., dated £2nd April 1969. (79) No. 20627E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
30) No. 20529E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (80) No. 20629E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
81) No. 20531E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1956. (81) No. 20631E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


(82) No. 20633E.P.A., dated 29th April 195d. 
(89) No. 20635E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
(84) No. 20637E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 
(85) No. 20689E.P.A., dated 29th Apri] 1969. 
(86) No. 20641E.P.A., dated 29th April 6۰ 


(0) No. 20543E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (87) No. 20643E.P.A., dated 29th se ola 1955. 
(38) No, 20546E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (88) No. COG45E.P.A., dated 29th 0ھ‎ 1985. 
99) No, 20547E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. (80) No. 20647E.P.A., dated 29th جم‎ 1956. 
48) No. 905497... dated 29th April 1956. (90) No. 20G49E.P.A., dated 29th April 1995. 


| } dated 29th April 1999, 
41) No. 20: 296) April 1955. (91) No. 20651E.P.A., 
رہام سی‎ eS ..ھ.06۵۹7.7ہ‎ dated 2010) April 1955. 


(3%) No. 20533E.P.A., dated 22nd April 19565. 
33) No. 20535E.P.A., duted 22nd April 1955. 
84) No. 20537E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1950. 
(35) No. 20539K.P.A., dated 22nd April 1956. 
(86) No. SU541E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1956. 


42) No. 20553E.P.A., dated 20th April 1955. (92) No. ৃ 
43) No. 20555K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. (93) No. রি ae on و‎ 
44) No. 205A7E.P.A., 101:900 April 1955. (94) No. 20657E.P.A., dated 290) pri | ۱ 
45) No, 90550E.P.A., dated 391 h April ۰+ (95) No. 9NG6SYE.P.A., dated 29th April 1959. 


2884 


(96) No. 
(97) No. 
(98) No. 
(99) No. 
(100) No. 
(101) No. 


(102) No. 
(103) No. 


(104) No. 
(105) No. 
(106) No. 
(107) No. 
(108) No. 
(109) No. 
(110) No. 
(111) No. 
(112) No. 
(1138) No. 
(114) No. 
(115) No. 
(116) No. 
(117) No. 
(118) No. 
(119) No. 
(120) No. 
(121) No. 


(122) No. 


(128) No. 
(124) No. 
(125) No. 
(126) No. 
(127) No. 
4128) No. 
(129) No. 
(130) No. 


(131) No. 


(192) No. 
(133) No. 
(134) No. 
(135) No. 
136) No. 
(187) No. 
(138) No. 
(139) No. 


(143) No. 


144) No. 20917E.P.A., 


(145) No. 
(146) No. 
(147) Ne. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


——— eee سپ مچ سک ہھ سح ہت سس جم‎ 
709251.[7 ,۸ے‎ dated 29th April 1955. 
20927E.P.A., dated 5901) April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1920. 


20663E.P.A., dated 
2GGSE.P.A., dated 
Q0667K.P.A., dated 


2Q06G1K.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 
29th April 1955. 
29th April 1955. 
69th April 1955. 


20669E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
90671E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


90673E.P.A., dated 29th April 1998. 
20675E.P.A., dated 29th April 3969. 


S0G77E.P.A., dated 29th April 1968. 
90679E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
20681E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
20683E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
20685E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
20687E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
20689E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
COGDLE.P.A., dated 29th April 1950. 


20693E.P.A., dated 29th April 
90695E.P.A., dated 29th April 


1955. 
1955. 


O0697E.P.A., dated 29th Aprit 1956. 


20699E.P.A., dated 29th April 
SOT0IE.P.A., dated 29th April 
90703E.P.A., dated 29th April 
S0T05E.P.A., dated 29th April 
2Q0707E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20709E.P.A., dated 29th April 
207111. .۸.., dated 29th April 
20713E.P.A., dated 29th April 
2Q0715E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20877E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20879E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20881E.P.A., dated 29th April 
290883E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20885E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20887E.P.A., dated 29th April 
20889E.P.A., dated 29th April] 


1955. 
1955. 
1990. 
1059. 
1965. 
1955. 
1955. 
1959. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
195A, 
1956. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 


20891 E.P.A., dated 29th April 1990. 


90898E.P.A., dated £9th April 1955. 
20895E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
20897K.P.A,, dated 19th April 1955, 
20899E.P.A., dated 29th April 5۰ 


HYOLE.P.A., dated 29th April 
20903E.P.A., dated 29th April 
290905K.P.A., dated 29th April 


1955. 
1955. 
1955. 


20907E.P.A., Dated 29th April 1955 
140) No.20909E.P.A., dated 29th April 1950. 
'141) No. 20911K.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
(142) No. 20V13E.P.A., dated 29th April 1950. 


20015E.P.A., 


20919K.P.A., 
ZO921E.P.A., 
20923K.P.A., 


dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1954. 
dated 29th April ۰ 
dated 29th April 1955. 


(148) No. 
(149) No. 


(150) No. 


(151) No. 
(152) No. 


(153) No. 
(154) No. 
(155) No. 
(156) No. 
(157) No. 
(158) No. 
(159) No. 
(160) No. 
(161) No. 
(162) No. 
(163) No. 
(164) No. 
(165) No. 
(166) No. 
(167) No. 
(168) No. 
(169) No. 
(170) No. 
(171) No. 
(172) No. 
(173) No. 
(174) No. 
(175) No. 
(176) No. 


(177) 
(178) 
(179) 
(180) 
(181) 
(182) 
(18-3) 
(184) 
(185) 
(186) 
(187) 
(188) 
(189) 
(190) 
(191) 
(192) 
(19:3) 
(194) No. 
(195) No. 
(196) No. 
(197) No. 


(198) No. 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No, 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 

No. 
No. 


No. 
No. 


No. 


20029E.P.A., 
20081E.P.A., 
£0033K.P.A., 
20935K.P.A., 
20937K.P.A., 
20989K.P.A., 
20941E.P.A., 
20943E.P.A., 
20945E.P.A., 
20947E.P.A., 
20949E.P.A., 
20951E.P.A., 
20953E.P.A., 
20955E.P.A., 
20957E.P.A., 
20959E.P.A., 
20961E.P.A., 
20963E.P.A., 
20965E.P.A., 
CO967E.P.A., 
20969E.P.A., 
20971E.P.A., 
20973E.P.A,, 
S0975E.P.A., 
2Q0977E.P.A., 
20979E.P.A., 
20981E.P.A., 
20983E.P.A., 
20985E.P.A., 
SNO87E.P.A., 
20989E.P.A., 
20991 E.P.A., 
20998E.P.A., 
20995E.P.A., 
20997E.P.A., 
90999E.P.A., 
21001E.P.A., 
21003E.P.A., 
21005E.P.A., 
21007E.P.A., 
21009E.P.A., 


21011E.P.A., 
21013E.P.A., 


91015E.P.A., 
21017E.P.A., 
21019E.P.A., 
92102111. 
21023E,P.A., 


21۰ 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


dated 
dated 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


dated 


Q9th 
2941) 
29th 
2011) 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
<9th 
29th 


[Parr [ 


April 1056. 
April 1955, 
April 1065 
April 1955, 
April 19655. 
April 1955, 
April 1966, 
April 1955, 
April 1955. 
April 19565, 
April 1955, 
April 1956. 
April 195d. 
April 1956. 
April 1956. 
April 1956. 
1955, 


29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 


1955. 
1955, 
1996 

1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1985. 
199, 
1956. 


29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 

29th 
29th 


29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 


29th 


April 195). 
April 19% 
April 1956 
April 1955 
April 1945 
April 1959. 
April 1989. 
April 1959. 
April 1959. 
April 1950. 
April 195d. 
April 1966. 
April 8۰ 
April 1958. 
April 1959. 
April 1959. 
April 1929. 
April 1959. 
April 1956. 
April 1950. 
April 195 | 
April 1095 | 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


2885 


2 রি রি 


(199) 
(200) 
(201) 
(202) 
(203) 
(504) 
(208) No. 
(206) No. 
(207) No. 


, Q10S7E.P.A., dated 
۔‎ 21029E.P.A., dated 
| Q1031E.P.A., dated 
. 21083K.P.A., dated 
۔‎ 21035E.P.A., dated 
| 2Q1037TE.P.A., dated 


21089E.P.A., dated 


29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 
29th 


April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 


1955. 
1955. 
1985. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
195d. 


91041 E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
91043E.P.A., dated 29th April 1969. 


(208) No, 21045E.P.A., dated 29th April 
(209) No. 21047E.P.A., dated 29th April 
(210) No. 21049E.P.A., dated 29th April 
(211) No. 21051E.P.A., dated 29th April 
(212) No. 21053K.P.A., dated 29th April 


(213) No. 
(214) No. 
(218) No. 
(216) No. 
(217) No. 
(218) No. 
(219) No. 
(220) No. 
(221) No. 
(222) 


(23]) 
(232) 
(238) 
(234) 
(235) 
(236) 
(237) No. 
(238) No. 
(239) No. 
(240) No. 
(241) No. 
(242) No. 
(243) No, 
(244) No, 
(245) No. 
(246) No, 
(247) No. 
(248) No. 
(249) No. 


21065E.P.A., 


2106519.1১.4..১ dated 
91057E.P.A., dated 
21059E.P.A., dated 
210G1E.P.A., dated 
21068E.P.A., dated 
dated 
91067E.P.A., dated 
21069E.P.A., dated 
Q1071E.P.A., dated 


. 21073E.P.A., dated 
. R1O75E.P.A., dated 
. 21077E.P.A., dated 
. 21079E.P.A., ۹۹ 
۔‎ 21081E.P.A., dated 
. 21088E.P.A., dated 
۔‎ 21085E.P.A., dated 
, 21087E.P.A., dated 
. 21089E.P.A., dated 
. 21091E.P.A., dated 
. 210938E P.A., dated 


21095E.P.A., dated 


, Q1097E.P.A., dated 
, Z1099E.P.A., dated 
, 2QHOLE.P.A., dated 


29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th Apnil 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 
29th April 


1956. 
1955. 
1956. 
1956. 
1959. 
19665. 
1929. 
1955. 
1929. 


1955. 


1959. 


1955. 
1955. 
1929. 
1999. 
1969. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1956. 
1956. 
1990. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1995. 


Z1103E.P.A., dated 29th April 1950. 


Q1105E.P.A., dated- 29th April 1955. 
QNO7E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


21109K.P.A., dated 29h April 1958. 
21111E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
Q21118E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
21115E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
P11I7E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
Q1119E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
Q1121E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


a 


91123K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


21195E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
91127E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 


(250) No. 
(261) No. 
(252) No. 
(293) No. 
(254) No. 
(296) No. 
(256) No. 
(257) ۰ 
(258) No. 
(559) No. 
(260) No. 
(261) No. 
(262) No. 
(213) No. 
(264) No. 
(265) No. 
(266) No. 
(267) No. 
(268) No. 
(269) No. 
(270) No. 
(271) No. 
(27%) No. 
(273) No. 
(274) No. 
(275) No. 
(276) No. 
277) No. 


21120E.P.A., 
21131K.P.A., 
21133E.P.A., 
Q1135E.P.A., 
Q1137E.P.A., 
921183911... 
Q1141E.P.A., 
21143E.P.A., 
Q1145K.P.A,, 
Q1147E.P.A., 
21149E.P.A., 
21151E.P.A., 
21153E.P.A., 
QU155E.P.A., 
Q1157E.P.A., 
Q1159E.P.A., 
21161E.P.A., 
21163E.P.A., 
21165E.P.A., 
Q11G7E.P.A., 
21169E.P.A., 
Q1IT1E.P.A., 
21173E.P.A., 
Q1175E.P.A., 
Q1177E.P.A., 
21179E.P.A., 
21181E.P.A., 
21183E.P.A., 
(278) No. 21185E.P.A., 
(279) No. 21187E.P.A., 
(280) No. 21189E.P.A., 
(281) No. 21191E.P.A., 
(£82) No. 21193E.P.A., 
(283) No. 21195E.P.A., 
(284) No. 21197E.P.A., 
(285) No. 21199E.P.A., 


dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 296) April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April ۰ 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th Apri) 1956. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1926, 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th Apirl 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 19565. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955, 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955, 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 
dated 29th April 1955. 


Notice is hereby given that the Evacuee Pro- 
perty Management Committee for West Bengal 
constituted under sub-section (1) of section 11 of 
the West Bengal Evacuee Property Act, 1951 
(West Bengal Act V of 1951), propose to take 
charge of the evacuee property described in 
the Schedule below under the provisions of 
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 17 of the 
said Act. 


Any person interested in the property who has 
any objection to the taking charge of the property 
by the Committee may file objection in writing 
before the Committee at its office at Writers’ 
Buildings within 29th June 1956. 


The Schedule. 


(1) No. 20449E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1996. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 237, plot 
No. 1037, Ares .89, Owner—Shri Kabir Mandol. 


(2) No. 20451E.P.A., dated 0 April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. LL. No. 19, Khatian No, 182, Plot 
No, 431, Area .56, Owner—Shri Meher Mandol. 


(3) No. 20453E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1958. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. £387, Plot 
No. 368, Area 1.46, Owner—Shri Kabir Mandol. 


2886 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1056 


[Parr ] 


a 


(4) No. 20455K.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-stution Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No, 19, Khatian No. 287, Plot 
No. 373, Area 1.60, Owner—Shri Kabir Mandol. 


(6) No. 20457E.P.A., dated 22nd April 6۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 142, Plot 
No. 981, Area .28, Owner—Shri Nurman Sheikh. 


(6) No, 20459E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. ملا‎ No. 19, Khatian No. 83, Plot 
No. 1041, Area .96, Owner—Shri Abjal Mandol. 


(7) No. 20461E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. LL. No. 19, Khatian No. 182, Plot 
No. 33, Area .56, Owners—Shri Farng Mandol. 


(8) No. 20468E.P.A., dated 22nd April 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mayza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 286, Plot 
No. 432) Area .62, Owner—Shri Aberali Mandol. 


(9) No. 20487E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. 15. No. 37, Khatian No. 1388, Plot 
No. 1548, Aren .20, Owner—Shri Atebar Rahman 


Biswas. 


(10) No. 20489E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. 14. No. 37, Khatian No. 806, Plot 
No. 1696, Area .21, Owner—Shri Md. Kakil 


Biswas. 


(11) No. 20491E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. 14. No. 37, Khatian No. 1096, Plot 
No. 2166, Area .21, Owner—Shri Sottar Biswas. 


(12) No. 20493E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


istrict Nadia, VPolice-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37, Khatian No. 289, Plot 
No, 2228, Area .14, Owner—Shri Abdul Jobbar. 


(13) No. 20495E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37, Khatian No. 1411, Plot 
No. 2380, Area .35, Owner—Shri Dinu Biswas. 


(14) No. 20497E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1945. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. 15 No. 37, Khatian No. 909, Plot 
No. 1341, Area .46, Owner—Shri Pipal Biswas. 


(15) No, 20499E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. .ا‎ No. 37, Khatian No. 1250, Plot 
No. 1618, Area .23, Owner—Shri Chhipat Shaikh. 


(16) No. 20501E.P.A., dated 22nd April 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. শা, No. 37, Khatian No. 1578, Plot 
দার idee Area .40, Owner—Shri Elahibox 

elkh. 


(17) No. 20503E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. ہا‎ No. 37, Khatian No. 806, Plot 
No. 1342, Area .44, Owner—Shri Md. Kakil 


Biswas. 


(18) No. 20505E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauzy 
Natipota, J. L. No. 91, Khatian No. 928, Plot 
বা Area .55, Owner—Shri Chhorman 
Ona 5 


(19) No. 20507E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. .ہا‎ No. 37, Khatian No. 1708, Plot 
اد‎ 3133, Area .26, Owner—Shri Nurul Haque 

iswas. 


(20) No. 20509E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. LL. No. 37, Khatian No. 1624, Plot 
No. 3382, Area .26, Owner—Shri Sarat Shaikh, 


(21) No. 20511E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37, Khatian No. 1684, Plot 
No. 3764, Area .39, Owner—Shri Khoka Mandal, 


(22) No. 20618E.P.A., dated 22nd April 196565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, 04 
Natipota, J. 14. No. 37, Khatian No. 2025, Plot 
ساد‎ ETE, Area .44, Owner—Shri Md. Hari 
ف00‎ 4۰ ) 


(23) No, 20515E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955, 


])istrict Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37. 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
791 2456 71 
791 1351 32 
11 164] 34 


Owner—Shrimati Anma Bibi. 


(24) No. 20517E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1969. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Jaipur, J. I. No. 39, Khatian No. 651, 
Plet No. 2390, Area .35, Qwner—Shri  Ahadali 
Mondal. 


(25) No. 20519E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Khaspur, J. L. No. 33, Khatian No. 155, Plot 
No. 1612, Area 1.11, Owners—Shri Nachharaddin 
Mondal and others. 


(26) No. £0521E.P.A., dated 22nd Apri] 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Jaipur, J. L. No. 39, Khatian No. 797, 
Plot No. 2411, Area .50, Owner-—-Shri (39111 


Biswas, 


(27) No. 20523E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Huanskhali, 
Mauza Jaipur, J. L. No. 39, Khatian No. 941, 
Plot No. 2350, Area .32, Owner—Shri Piar 
Mondal. 


(28) No. 20525E.P.A., datad 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanshhali, 
Maura Jaipur, J. L. No. 89, Khatian No. 863, 
বান, 2386, Area 1.07, Owner—Shri Nazar Al 

.دہ 


part 1] 
...سے‎ 
(29) No. 2065272. ۸۸ dated 2220. April 1955. 
District. Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 


Haspukuria, J. ہلا‎ No. 35, Khatian No. 168, Plot 
No. 2180, Area .29, Owner—Shri Unher Mondal. 


(30) No. 20529H.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. Is No. (85, Khatian No. 562, 
Plot No. 2400, Area .60, Owner—Shri Munsar 


Molla. 


(31) No. 20531E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, 7028 
Haspukuria, J. L. No. 35, Khatian No. 390, Plot 
No.2346, Area .14, Owner—Shri Khoka Mallik. 


(85) No. 20533E.P.A., dated 22nd April 19665. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehotta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. 14 No. 35, Khatian No. 163, Plot 
No. 2135, Area .32, Owner—Shri Unher Mondal. 


(38) No. 20535E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. L. No. 35, Khatian No. 471, Plot 
No. 2342, Area .16, Owner—Shri Behari Shaik. 


(84) No. 20537E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. L. No. 35, Khatian No. 390, Plot 
No. 2341) Area .21, Owner—Shri Napal Mallick. 


(36) No. 20539E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. L. No. 36, Khatiun No. 603, Plot 
No. 2335, Area .54, Owner--Shri Ramjan Mair. 


(36) No. £0541E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1999. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. L. No. 35, Khatian No. 581, Plot 
ee Area .29, Owner—Shri Meher Ali 
01910, 


(9) No. 20648E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
daspukuria, J. L. No. 35, Khatian No. 372, Plot 
Yo. 2368, Area .30, Owner—Shri Nimu Molla. 


(98) No. 20545E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1996. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
laspukuria, J. J. No, 36, Khatian No. 696, Plot 
lo. 2246, Area .17, Owner—Shri Himber Sheik. 


(39) No. 20547E.P.A., dated 22nd April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station* Tehatta, Mauza 
Sspukuria, J. 14. No. 35, Khatian No. 82, Plot 
0. 2203, Area .389, Owner—Shri Ananda Shaik. 


(41) No. S0549E.P.A., dated 29{h April 1955. 


District oN adia, olice-station Hanskhah, 
টার Noapukuria, J. 1. No. 41, Khatian No. 5, 


sb No. 246, Area .44, Owner—Shrimati Julno 


(41) No, 20551E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
1০) Noapukuria, J. 1১, No. 41, Khatian No. 22, 


rt 0. 1) Area 1.24, Owner—Shrimati Huazari 
1, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


2887 


(42) No. 20553E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, TPolice-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Noapukuria, J. 14. No. 41, Khatian No. 9, 
Plot No, 2, Area .67, Owner—Shri Fatik Mondal. 


(43) No. 20555E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 20, 
Plot No. 177, Area .48, QOwner—Shri Bechu 
Mondal. 


(44) No. 20557E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Noapukuria, J. Iu. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 185, Area .14, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi. 


(45) No. 20559E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. .ا1‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 179, Plot 
No. 1723, Area .15, Owner—Shri Md. Nintia 
Mondal. 


(46) No. 20561E.P.A., dated 29th April 1986. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 


Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 171, Plot 
No. 1748, Area .16, Owner—Shri Kesmat Mondal. 


(47) No. 20563E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Noakhali, J. lL. No. 41, Khatian No. 9, Plot No. 
5, Area 20.98, Owner—Shri انام"(‎ ١ Mandol. 


(48) No. 20565E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia,  Volice-station Hanskhali, 
Nodpukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 19, Plot 
No. 338, Area .61, Owner—Shri Bechu Mondal. 


(49) No. 20567E.P.A., dated 29th April 1996. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhah, 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 13, Plot 
No. 34, Area .61, Owner—Shri Bechu Mandal. 


(50) No. 20569E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


Iistrict Nadia,  Volice-station Hanskhali, 
Noapukuria, J. 14. No. 41, Khatian No, 19, Plot 
No. 35, Area .66, Owner—Shri Bechu Mandal. 


(51) No. 20571E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


])istrict Nadia,  Police-station | _Hanskhali, 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 1538, Area .25, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi. 


(52) No. 20573E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 6, Plat 
No. 10, Area 1.42, Owner—Shri Nilmoni Mandal. 


(63) No. 20576E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia,  Police-station _ Hanskhali, 
ধন J. l.. No. 41, Khatian No. 13, Plot 
No. 12, Area .43, Owner—Shri Bechu Mandal. 


(54) No. 20577E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. 1), No. 41, Khatian No. 9, Plot 
No. 89, Area .74, Owner—Shri Fatik Mandal. 


2888 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


(55) No. 20579E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanuskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 26, Plot 
No. 240, Area 1.59, Owner—Shri Fatik Chandra 
Mandal. 


(56) No. 20581E.P.A., dated 29th April 1055. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. 1. No. 41, Khatian No. 9, Plot 
No. 241, Area 1.06, Owner—Shri Fatik Mandal. 


(57) No. 20583E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mausa 
Nosapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 24, Plot 
No. 14, Area .80, Owner—Shri Fatik Mandal. 


(68) No. 20585E.P.A., dated 29th April 195d. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 20, Plot 
No. 25, Area .07, Owner—Shri Meherali, 


(69) No. 20587E.P.A., dated 29th April 6۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 9, Plot 
No. 91, Area 1.20, Qwner—Shri Fatik Mandal. 


(60) No. 20589E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 202, Area .22, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi. 


(61) No. 20591E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noupukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
‘No. 203, Area .11, Owners—Srimati ‘Hajari Bibi 
and others. 


(62) No. 20593E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 6, Plot 
No. 209, Area .25, Owner—Shri Nilmani Mal. 


(63) No. 20595E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 19, Plot 
No. 210, Area .23, Owner—Shri Manik Mal. 


(64) No. 20697E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. .ہا‎ No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 211, Area .11, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi. 


(65) No. 20599E.P.A., dated 29th April 1945. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. .ا‎ No. 41, Khatian No, 22, Plot 
No. 219) Area .08, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi. 


(66) No. 20601E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. [7 No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 213, Area .07, Owner—Srimati Hajari 1۰. 


(67) No. 20603E.P.A., dated 29th April 1969. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Noapukuria, J. 1707 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No, 214, Area .08, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi. 


[Parr | 


ee ey ee a te ہے۔‎ 
) 


(68) No. 20605E.P.A., dated 291) April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 0908 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Pig 
No. 2165, Area .1], Owner—Shrimati Hajan Bibi 


(69) No. 20607E.P.A., dated 20th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanakhali, 71827 
Noapukuria, J. 14. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, 7১101 
No. 216, Area .30, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibj 


(70) No, 20609E.P.A., dated 29th April 1905. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
oapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 217, Area .18, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Jibj. 


(71) No. 20611E,P.A., dated 29th April 1966, 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauzg 
Noapukuria, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 22, Plot 
No. 218, Area .14, Owner—Shrimati Hajari Bibi, 


(72) No. 20613H.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 1 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 585/587, 
Plot No. 2089, Area 1.31, Owners—Shri Sabadat 
Sekh and Harat Molla. 


(73) No. c0GI6E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatinn No. 121, Plot 
No. 1660, Area .18, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal. 


(74) No. 20617E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Muauza 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatian No. 261, Plot 
No. 1741, Area .39, QOwner—Shri Md. Bahar 
Mandal. 


(75) No. 20619E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatian No, 478, Plot 
ee 137, Area .84, Owner—Shrimati 32 

ibi. 


(76) No. 20621E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauzo 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatian No. 121, Plot No. 
172, Area .17, Owner—Shri lbrahim Mondal. 


(17) No. 20623E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, VPolice-station Kotwali, Maus 
Hatisala, J. .ا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 184, Plot 
No. 1532, Area .08, Owner—Shri Kalu Mondal. 


(78) No. 206Z5E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mau 
Hatisala, J. 14. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
239, Area .21, Owner—Shri Kesmat Mondal. 


(79) No. 20627E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mau@ 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
174, Area .46, Owner—Shri Kesmat Mondal. 


(80) No. 20629E.P.A., dated 29th April 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanakhali, a 
Khamar Simulia, J. .ما‎ No. 40, Khatian, پک‎ 
63, Plot No. 1106, Area .18. Owner—Shrima 
Jamiran Bibi, 


Part و‎ 


ST TU 


০০৯ শি جم‎ 


(81) No. 20G31E.P.A., dated 29th April 19096. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Smthin, J. 1. No. 40, Khatian No. 
68, Plot No. 2662, Area .41, ( wner—Shri Kalu 


Molla. 


82 No. 20G33E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhah, Mauza 
Khamar Saithia, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 
974, Plot No. 282, Area .13, Owner— Shri Sabjan 
Malita. 


(93) No. 20686E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hunskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Saithia, J. I. No. 40, Khutiun No. 
189, Plot No. 284, Area .31, Owner—Shri Felan 
Mandal. 


(84) No. 20637E.P.A., dated 29th April 195d. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Saithia, J. نا‎ No. 40, Khatian No. 
09, Plot No. 315, Area .39, Owner—Shri Kalu 
Molla, 


(85) No. 20689E.P.A., dated 29th April 1958. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. I. No. 40, Khatian No. 
69, Plot No. 275, Area .08, Owner—Shri Kalu 
Molla. 


(86) No. 20641E.P.A., dated 29th April 1968. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 

Khamar Simulia, J. 14. No. 40, Khataan No. 
نات‎ No. 2829, Area .18, Owner—Shri Kalu 
olla. 


(87) No. 20643K.P.A., dated 29th April 1958. 


Thistriot Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. ہلا‎ No. 40, Khatian ٥٠ 
245, Plot No. 2388, Area .55, Owner—Shri Viku 
Mondal, 


(88) No. £0645E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar, J. LL. No. 40, Khatian No. 


4 Plot No, 276 | 791, Aren 36 Owner—Shri Kalu 
olla. 


(89) No. 20647E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 


District Nadia, Police station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. ملا‎ No. 40, Khatian No. 
রি ae No. 275 /790, Area .18, Owner—Nhri Kalu 


(80) No. 20G49E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
: amar Simulia, J. 1. No.740, Khatian No. 
81 No. 238, Area .18, Owner—Shri Kalu 


Olla 


91) No. 20651K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza‏ وس 
snd Simulia, J. I. No. 40, Khatian No.‏ 
No. 235, Area .14, Owner—Shri Kalu‏ سد لا 


92) No. 20653E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


Mauza‏ 11ا 118104 Nadia, Police-station‏ تہ 
amar Simulia, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No.‏ 


Daf پا‎ No. 2686, Area 94. Owner —Shri Gham 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JOLY 26, 1956 2889 


— ees, 


(93) No. 20G00K.P.A., dated 29th Apri] 1955. 


District 2 Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
۴)] 17٤٣7 سو‎ J. ly. No. 40, Khation No. 
30, Plot No. 1115, Area 1.03, Uwner—Shri Enat 
Mondal. 


(94) No. 20657E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskholi, Mauza 
Khamur Simulia, J. ہا‎ No. 40, Khatian No. 
a سے‎ No. 275, Area .40, Owner—fhri Kalu 

olla. 


(95) No. 20659E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. lL. No. 40, Khatian No, 
68, Plot No. 2345, Area 444 তিল], Owner— 
Shri Kalu Molla. 


(96) No. 20661E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


])istrict Nadin, Poliee-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 
এ No. 2387, Area .18, Owner—Shri Kalu 

olla. 


(97) No. 20663E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 
a شس‎ No. 2588, Area .)9, Owner—Shri Kalu 

olla 


(98) No. 20665E.P.A., duted 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-atation Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. I. No. 40, Khatian No. 
ny 7 No. 2828, Area .59, Owner—Shri Kalu 

olla 


(99) No. 20667E.P.A., dated <9th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. .ا‎ No. 40, Khatian No. 
টা No. 2830, Area .12, Owner—Shri Kalu 

olla. 


(100) No. 20669E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Maugza 
Khamar Simulia, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 
31, Plot No. 1118, Area 1.03, Owner—Shri 
Karim Sheikh. 


(101) No. 20671E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hauskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. ہا‎ No. 40, Khatian No. 
182, Plot No. 1496, Areu 22. Owner—Shri 
Panchu Mondal. 


(102) No. 20673E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhah, Mauza 
Khamar Simulian, J. 15. No. 40, Khatian No. 
155, Plot No. 1535, Area .838, Owner—Shri Sepa 
Tarahder. 


(103) No. 20675E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. 14 No. 40, Khatian No. 
79, Plot No. 22638, Area 1.22, Owner—Shri 
Juadu Sheikh. 


(104) No. 20677E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanshhali, Mauza 
Khamar Simulia, J. ہا‎ No. 40, Khatian No. 
432, Plot No. 2217, Area .404.62=1.02, Owner 
~Shri Mahammad Tarafder. 


2890) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


(105) No. 20679E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Satgachi, J. ],. No. 89, Khatian No. 70, Plot No. 
٦ Area .60, Owners—Shri 00007 Ali and 
others. 


(106) No. 20681E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
Palitpara, J. .ا‎ No. 25, Khatian No. 124, Plot 
No. 486, Area 1.%9, Owner—Shri Mati Mondol. 


(107) No. 20683E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
Palitpara, J. L. No. 25, Khatian No. 786, Plot 
No. 16, Area .80, Owner—Shri Raba Mondal. 


(108) No. 20685E.P.A., dated 29th April 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mause 
Palitpara, J. L. No. 25, Khatian No. 962, Plot 
No. 58, Area .91, Owner—Shri Pachu Mondal. 


(109) No. 20687E.P.A., dated 29th April 1969. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
Palitpara, J. L. No. 25, Khatian No. 8389, Plot 
No. 64, Area .81, Owner—Shrimati Bashi Bibi. 


(110) No. 20689E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
Palitpara, J. L. No. 25, Khatian No. 163, Plot 
No. 194, Area .70, Owner—Shrimati Harani Bibi. 


(111) No. 2£0691E.P.A., dated 29th April 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
palitpara, J. L. No. 25, Khatian No. 284, Plot 
No. 195, Area .56, Owner—Shri Iman Shek. 


(112) No. 20698E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
Palitpara, J. L. No. 25, Khatian No. 180, Plot 
No. 306, Area .30, Owner—Shri Md. 101 
Mondal. 


(118) No. 2UG95E.P.A., dated 29th April 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ranaghat, Mauza 
Palitpara, J. LL. No. 25, Khatian No. 931, Plot 
No. 307, Area .36, Owner—Shri Md. تا]‎ Mondal. 


(114) No. 20697E.P.A., 88060 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia Police-station Chakdaha, Mauza 
Taimipur, J. L. No. 44, Khatian No. 49, Plot 
No. 123, Area .42, Owner—Shri Maher Sardar. 


(116) No. 20699E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia Police-station Chakdaha, Mauza 
Joykrishnapur, J. L. No. 31, Khatian No. 7, Plot 
No. 628, Area 1.22, Owner—Shri Mokliv Mandal. 


(116) No. 20701E.P.A., dated 29th Apri] 1956. 


District Nadia Police-station Chakdaha, Mauza 
Joykrishnapur, J. L. No. 31, Khatian No. 548, 
Plot No. 627, Area .11, Owner—Shri Chamin Sk. 


(117) No. 20703E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
District Nadia Police-station Chakdaba, Mauza 


Danicha, J. 1s. No. 11, Khatian No. 20, Plot No. 
774, Area .98, Gwner—Shri Hazari Mandal. 


(Pari T 


২ আয 
(118) No. :3070)1).1১.4. dated 29th April 1955, 


Inistrict Nadia, Polce-station Chakduha, Mauza 
Danicha, J. L. No. 11, Khatian No. 420, Plot 
No. 793, Area .32, Owner—Shri Pancha Sk. 


(119) No. 20707E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chakdaha, Mauza 
Danicha, J. L. No. 11, Khatian No. 210, Plot No. 
796, Area .21, Owner—Shri Ratan Mandal. 


(120) No. 20709E.P.A., dated 29th Apri] 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
1138 127 96 
954 231 1.34 
83 1286 20 


Owner—Shri Nachhab Saha Fakir. 


(121) No. 20711E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. 14. No. 37 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
1138 200 1.37 
652 1302 1.15 
321 1971 34 


Owner—Shri Nachhab Ssha Fakir. 


(122) No. 20713E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37, Khatian No. 1417, Plot 
یہ اد‎ Area .48, Owner—Shri Nachhab Saha 

akir. 


(129) No. 20715E.P.A., dated 29th April 1920. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 821, Plot 
No. 2840, Area 1.02, Owner—Shri Kuran Saha 
Fakir. 


(124) No. 20877E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. I. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
844, Area .41, Owner—Shri Md. Kesmat Mondal. 


(125) No. 20879E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
Police-station Kotwali, Mauze 


81, Khatian No. 261, Plot 
Bahar 


District Nadia, 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 
No. 815, Area .48, Owner—Shri Md. 


Mondal. 
(126) No. 90881 01.1১.4.১ dated 29th April 1960, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. £68, Plot 
No. 842, Area .54, Owner—Shri Md. Bhanu 


Mondal. 


(127) No. 20883E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, TVolice-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 268, 1106 
No. 876, Area .14, Owner—Shri Md. Bhanu 


Mandal. 


PaRT I] 


(138) No. 20885E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-stution Kotwali, Mauza 


Hatisala, J. 15. No. 81. 


Khatian No- Plot No. Area. 
551 879 .59 
485 825 1.40 
399 849 29 
106 847 -92 


Qwner—Shri Ebrahim Mondal. 


(129) No. 20887E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 345, Plot 
No. 874, Area .70, Owner—Shri Md. Musa Karim 
Mondol. 


(130) No. 20889E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Naudia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 14. No. 81, Khatian No. 121, Plot 
No. 846, Area .45, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal. 


(131) No. 20891K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District ‘Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. ہا‎ No. 81, Khatian No, 347, Plot 
No. 761, Area .64, Ownersa—Shrimati Elachi Bibi 
and others. 


(192) No. 20893H.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Ju. No. 81, Khatian No. 469, Plot 
No. 763, Area 1.21, Owner—Shrimati Elachi Bibi. 


(183) No. 20895E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 305, Plot 
se ek Area .81, Owner—Shri Md. Rahaman 

0۰ 


(184) No. 20897E.P.A,, dated 19th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Iu. No. 81, Khatian No. 202, Plot 
পি Area .19, Owner—Shm Md. Panchu 
0+ 


(185) No. 20899E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
atisala, J. Iu. No. 81, Khatian No. 40, Plot No. 
111, Area .09, Owner—Shri Md. Atat Mondal. 


(136) No. 20901K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
atisala, J. 1, No. 81, Khatian No. 202, Plot 
No. 114, Area .34, Owner—Shri Panchu Mondal. 


(187) No. 20908E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-statiun Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 202, Plot 
No, 116) Area .82, Owner—Shri Panchu Mondal. 


(198) No. 20905E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
atisala, J. .ا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 262, Plot 


a 128, Area .97, Owner—Shri Md. Hakim 
00008]. 


(189) No. 20907E.P.A., Dated 29th April 6 


Distrieg Nadin, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
২0118 ॥। را ,لا‎ No. 81, Khation No. 282, Plot 
(0৭, Area 21, Owner--Shri Fakir Chand 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2891 


(1%)) No.20909E.P.A., dated 29th 87900119685 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81. ; 


Khatlan No. Plot No. Area. 
370 384 /2092 ১28 
373 384 3.1 


Owner—Shrimati Negaran Bibi. 


(141) No. 20911E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 202, Plot No. 
298, Area .59, Owner—Shri Md. Panchu Mandal. 


(142) No. 20913E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 433, Plot 
No. 386, Area .58, Owner—Shri Md. Bilatali 
Bhur Bhuria. 


(143) No. 20915E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hativala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. £02, Plot 
No. 385, Area .64, Owner—Shri Md. Panchu 
Mandal. 


(144) No. 20917E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 19029 
Rajibpur, J. L. No, 19, Khatian No. 160, Plot 
No. 849, Area .83, Owner—Shri Fakir Chand 
Halsana. 


(145) No. 20919E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. Now 19, Khatian No. 243, Plot 
No. 478, Area .98, Owner—Shri Kadamali 
Mandol. 


(146) No. 20921E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. I. No. 19, Khatian No. 84, Plot 
No. 472, Area .25, Owner—Shri Pijiraddin 
Mandol. 


رو 


(147) No. 20923E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 187, Plot 
No. 853, Area .75, Owner—Shri Majhar Halsana. 


(148) No. 20925E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 94, Plot 
No. 497, Area .25, Owner—Shri Jerman Mandol. 


(149) No. 20927E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, 1১০17০৪৪০৮০], Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 149, Plot 
No. 362, Area .28, Owner—Shri Bakul Sekh. 


(150) No. 20929H.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Ranavanda, J. L. No. 24, Khatian No. 4, Plot No. 
2342, Area 1.72, Owner—Shri Tamijuddin 
Mandal. 


(151) No. 20981E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mausa 
Ranavanda, J. .ا‎ No, 24, Khatian No. 25, Plot 
No. 1227, Area .27, Owner—Shri Tamijaddin 
Mandal, 


2892 THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


(152) No. 20933E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mouza 
Ranavanda, J. L. No. 24, Khatian No. 190, Plot 
No. 758, Area .81, Owner—Shri Md. Ahad 
Mandal. 


(153) No. 209385E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Ranavanda, J. 1. No. 24, Khatian No. 39, Plot 
No. 2368, Area .64, Owner—Shri Ahad Mandal. 


(164) No. 20987E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauga 
Ranavanda, J. 15. No. 24, Khatian No, 87, Plot 
No. 2232, Area 2.36, Owner—Shri Ahad Mandal. 


(155) No. 20939E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Natipota, J. L. No. 37, Khatian No. 83, Plot No. 
968, Area .49, Owner—Shri Iusab Saha. 


(156) No. 20941E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Volice-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. 1. No. 19, Khatian No. 244, Plot 
No. 1168) Area .78, Owner—Shri Aberali 


Mandal. 


(167) No. 20943K.P.A., dated 29th April 1958. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 218, Plot 
No. 1443, Area .58, Owner—Shri Saharali Mandal. 


(158) No. 20941E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 237, Plot 
No. 1421, Area .37, Owner—Shri Kabir Mandal. 


(159) No. 20947E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. I. No. 19, Khatian No. 4, Plot 
No. 1124, Area .68, Owner—Shri Bholai Saddar. 


(160) No. 20949E.P.A., dated 29th April 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehaita, Mnuza 
Haspukuria, J. I. No. 35, Khatian No. 265, Plot 
No. 2671, Area .15, Owner—Shri Ayu Shaik. 


(161) No. 20961E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza 
Haspukuria, J. L. No. 35, Khatian No. 562, Plot 
No. 2261, Area .70, Owner—Shri Munzar Molla. 


(162) No. 20953E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 199, Plot 
No. 896, Area 1.83, Owner— Shri Imam Alli 
Mandol. 


(163) No. 20955E.P.A., dated 29th April 195d. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 114, Plot 
No. 611, Area .41, Owner—Shri Jobabali Biswas. 


(164) No. 20957E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 19, Khatian No. 86, Plot 
No. 1064, Area .23, Owner—Shri Chepat Mondal. 


[Pane ] 


a 
(165) No. 20959E.P.A., dated £9th April 1945, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, M 
Rajibpur, J. L. No. 62, Khatian No. 30, Pe 
No. 380, Area .28, Owner—Shri Md. Bhuag 
Sardar. 1 


(166) No. 20961E.P.A., dated 290) April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, May, 
Raipukur, J. 1. No. 52, Khatian No. 19, Plot Ne 
879, Area 2.28, Owner—Shri Md. Tmanali Sheik. 


(167) No. 209683E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mi 
Raipukur, J. L. No. 52, Khatian No. 266, Plot 
0 362, Area 1.32, Owner—Shri Md. Chhamir. 
addin. 


(168) No. 20965E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali 
Raipukur, J. 15 No. 62 ০০ 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
275 350 95 
276 360 33 


Owners—Shbri Md. Jamir Shek and others. 


(169) No. .09G7E.P.A., dated 29th April 1658. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Maura 
Ruipukur, J. L. No. 52, Khatian No. 525, Plot 
No. 351, Area 1.58, Owner—Shri Md. Hasen Sekh. 


(170) No. 20969E.P.A., dated 29th April 1996, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Ruipukur, J. L. No. 62, Khatian No. 377, Plot 
No. 244, Area 1.10, Qwner—Shri Md. Baul] Mondal. 


(171) No. 20971E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Raipukur, J. I. No. 52, Khatian No. 274, Plot 
ae Area 90, Owner—Shri Md. Jaharaddin 

ekh. 


(172) No. 20973E.P.A,, dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Raipukur, J. I. No. 62, Khatian No. 235, Plot 
ا‎ Area .98, Owner—Shri Md. Kepat 
ekh. 


(173) No. £0975E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Ruipukur, J. Iu. No. 54, Khatian No. 499, ۲ 
No. 238, Area .90, Owner—Shri Md. Saheb Shek. 


(174) No. 20977E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Ruipukur, J. L. No. 52, Khation No, 187, Plot 
ke 236, Area .98, Owners—Shri Abdul and 
others. 


(175) No. 20979E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauz® 
Ruipukur, J. L. No. 52, Khatian No. 267, Plot 
No. 285, Area .86, Owners—Shri Md. Sader Sekh 


and others. 


(176) No. 20981E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, Maw 
Ruipukur, J. 1. No. 52, Khatian No. 202) Plot 
No. 234, Area .49, Owner—Shri Md. (10180) 


Mandal, 


Part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 220% 


—————eeeeEeEeeeee—————————=—=_=_=_{_————————————E———————— ص.-..-.-.-.-‎ 


177) No. 20988E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadin, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Ruipukur, J. 15. No. 62, Khatian No. 274, Plot 
No, 231, Area .31, Owner—Md. Jaharaddin Sekh. 


(178) No. 20985E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, Mauza 
Ruipukur, J. 15 No. 52, Khatian No. 202, Plot 
No. 228, Area 1.22, Owner—Shri Md. LEktayar 


Sekh. 


(179) No. 20987E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. نا‎ No. 57, Khatian No. 282, Plot 
No. 741, Area .93, Owner—Shri Md. Asiraddin 


Mistry. 


(180) No. 20989H.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. 11. No. 57, Khatinan No. 232, Plot 
No. 766, Area .75, Owner—Shri Md. Siraj Sekh. 


(181) No. 20991K.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. I. No. 57, Khatian No. 3, Plot 
No. 765, Area 39, Owner—Shri Md. Hudi Bihi. 


(182) No. 209938E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Matza 
Amghata, J. .ا‎ No. 57, Khatian No. 104, Plot 
No. 764, Area .75, Owner—Shri Md. Saigal Sekh. 


(183) No. 20995E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. .ا‎ No. 57, Khatinan No. 69, Plot 
No. 758, Area .30, Owner—Shri Eusuf Sekh. 


(184) No. 20997K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. LL. No. 57%, Khatian No. 316, Plot 
No. 740, Area .57, Owner—Shri Md. Afsar 
0٥5887. 


(185) No, 20999K.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. T,. No. 57, Khatian No. 248, Plot 


No. ا‎ Area 1.04, Owner—Shri Md. Moharaddin 
andol. 


(186) No. 21001E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
mghata, J. 1 No, 57 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
218 845 .0 
463 846 .45 


Owner—Shri Esahaque Sekh. 


(187) No. 21003E.P.A., dated 29th April 1925. 


a District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
1101118) J. ।, No. 567, Khatian No. 308, Plot 
Mo. fer Area ,84, Owner—Shri Md, Gopal 


(188) No, 210U5K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
/mghata, J. L. No. 67. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
179 §22 1.30 
179 , 580 re: 
179 518 68 
179 1051 ol 


Owners—Shri Munshi Sekh and others. 


(189) No. 21007E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 14. No. 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
338/339 1720 82 
340 1558 27 
399 1515 -16 


Owner—Shri Md. Ibrahim Mandol. 


(190) No. 21009E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. I. No. 91. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area, 
106 1680 18 
399 1701 36 


Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal. 


(191) No. 21011E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 1 0 
Hatisala, J. I. No. 81, Khatian No. 305, Plot 
No. 792, Area .61, Owner—Shri Rahaman 
Mondal, 


(192) No. 210]3E.P.A., dated 29th April 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatian No. 94, Plot No. 
813, Area 1.01, Owner—Shri Asgor Mondol 


(193) No. 21016E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisalu, J. L. No. 81, Khation No. 261, Plot 
No. 2107, Area .78, Owner—Shrni Md. Bahar 
Mondol. 


(194) No. 21017E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Volice-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Iu. No. 81, Khatian No. 200, Plot No. 
770, Area .33, Owner—Shri Md. Jahuruddin 
Mondol. 


(195) No. 21019K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwah, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Tu. No. 81, Khatian No. 509, Plot No. 
6, Area .36, Owner—Shri Md. Atal Mondal. 


(196) No. 21021E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 8+0 
0ا‎ le, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 510, Plot 
No. 8, Area .28, Owner—Shri Md. ۸17 Mondol. 


(197) No. 21023E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955 


District Nadia, VPolice-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisnta, J. Yu. No, 81, Bhatian No. 411, Pilot 
No. 40, Area 13, Owner—Shri Md, Panchu 
Mondol. 


2894 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


ere ےو‎ 


[Parr ] 


(198) No, 21026E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. ہا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 460, Plot 
No. 31, Area .41, Owner—Shri Md. Kismat 


Mondol. 


(199) No. 210c7K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 1.. No. 81, Khatian No. 498, Plot No. 
37, Area .28, Owner—Shri Md. Isoraddin Dhabak. 


(200) No. 21029E.P.A., dated 29th April 1995. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 494, Plot 
No. 38, Area .20, Owner—Shri Belatali Mondol. 


(201) No. 21031E.P.A., dated 29th April 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area, 
202 43 14 
202 42 12 


Owner—Shri Md. Panchu Mondol. 
(202) No. 21033E.P.A., dated 29th April 1968. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. I.. No. 81, Khatian No. 494, Plot 
No. 863, Area .24, Owner—Shri Belatali Mondol. 


(203) No. 21085E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-atation Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. Tu. No. 57, Khatian No. 479, Plot 
No. 707, Area .91, Ofner—Shri Rahaman Mistry. 


(<04) No. 21037E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. .ا‎ No. 57, Khatian No. 431, Plot 
No. 428, Area 1.82, QOwner—Shri Md. Maksed 
Ostagar. 


(205) No. 21039E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. L. No. 57, Khatian No. 417, Plot 
No. 496, Area 1.72, Owner—Shri Ali Sekh. 


(206) No. 21041E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-atation Kotwali, ٥ 
Amghata, J. L. No. 57 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
35 377 30 
32 377/610 .70 


Ownersa—Shrimati Galitannessa Bibi and others. 


(207) No. 21043E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. I. No. 57, Khatian No. 108, Plot 
No. 708, Area .40, Owners—Shri Md. Esheraddin 
Sekh and others. 


(208) No. 21045E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81. 


Khatian No, Plot No, Area, 
81 275 18 
81 274 oO) 


Owner—Shri Md. Ahadali Mandal, 


(209) No, 210471.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
11010058100) J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 385, Plot 
No, ১08, Area .61, Owner—Shri Md. Jusan 
Mondal. 


(210) No. 21049K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 1. No. ,اھ‎ Khatian No. 483, Plot 
No. 266, Area .26, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mandal. 


(211) No. 21051E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No, 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
202 282 49 
902 281 14 


Owner—Shri Md. Panchu Mandal. 
(212) No, 21058E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. I. No. 81, Khatian No. 494, Plot 
No. 252, Area .44, Owner—Shri Bilatali Mondal. 


(213) No. 21055F.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 33, Plot 
No. 261, Area 1.79, Owner—Shri Asgar Mandal. 


(514) No. 21057E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
202 410 13 
202 409 14 


Owner—Shri Md. Panchu Mondal. 


(216) No. 21059E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. LL. No. 81, Khatian No. 121, Plot 
No. 414, Area .31, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal. 


(216) No. 21061E.P.A., dated 29th April 1969. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Ju. No. 81, Khatian No. 117, Plot No. 
415, Area .36, Owner—Shri Hajarat Molla. 


(217) No, 21068E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 48 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
416, Area .20, Owner—Shri Md. Kesaum Mondal. 


(218) No. 21065E.P.A., dated 29th April 1989. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
411, Area .76, Owner—Shri Md. Kesmat Mondal. 


(219) No. 21067E.P.A., dated 2911) April 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian Na. 271, Plot 
No. 40%, Area .34, Owner—Shrimati Nirada Bibi. 


(220) No. 21069E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 1). No. 81, Khatian No, 271, Plot No. 
397, Area .31, Owner—Shri Md, Musa Karim 
Mondal, 


part 1[ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 2896 
a 


(221) No. 91071E.P.A., dated 29th April 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 14 No. 8], Khatian No. 106, Plot No. 
394, Aren .18, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal. 


(222) No. 210738E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
995, Area .41, Owner—Shri Md. Kesmat Mondal. 


(223) No. 21076E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. .ا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. £76, Plot 
No. 393, Area .89, Owner—Shri Rabbani Mondal. 


(224) No. 21077E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Vatisala, J. 1. No. 81, Khatian No. 282, Plot 
No. 392, Area .31, Owner—Shri Md. Fakir Chand 


Mondal, 


(225) No. 21079E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Iu. No. 81, Khatian No. 148, Plot No. 
391, Area .62, Owner—Shri Md. Kesmat Mondal. 


(226) No. 21081E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 340, Plot 
No. 990, Area 1.15, Owner—Shri Ibrahim 30 ۰ 


(227) No. £1083E.1’.A., dated 29th April 19656. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 179, Plot 
i سے‎ Area .17, Owner—Shri Md. Kinu 

ondal. 


(828) No. 21085E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
atisala, J. ]/. No. 81, Khatian No. 217, Plot 
No. 382, Area .18, Owner—Shri Rabbani Mondal. 


(229) No. 21087E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


Nadia, Volice-station Kotwali, Mauza‏ امام 
J. lL. No. 79, Khatian No. 37, Plot‏ ,9005 
Area .26, Owner—Shri Ijjat Mandal.‏ ,99 .0 


(30) No. 21089E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
akchapra, J. L. No. 79 


Khatian No, Plot No. Area. 
10 84 07 
10 89 10 
10 129 17 


Owners—Shri Md. Mali Mandal and others. 


91) No. 21001E.P.A., dated 29th ‘April 1907 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
‘akchapra, ور‎ No. 79, Khatian No. 9, Plot 


' “58, Aren 1.82, Owner—Shri Easin Mandal. 


(232) No. 21093E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Chakchapra, J. L. No. 79 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
15 104 .46 
32 105 ১80 


Ownoer—Shri Md. Tusta Sha. 
(233) No. 21095E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Jeolgari, J. L. No. 80, Khatian No. 82, Plot No. 
a) Area .18, Owners—Shri Ayasha Khatun and 
others. 


(234) No. 21097E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Jeolyari, J. L. No. 80, Khatian No. 43, Plot 
No. 66/120, Area .39, Owner—Shri Md. Syidali 
Mandal. 


(235) No. £1099E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Chakchapra, J. L. No. 79 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
10 81 19 
10 88 07 
10 90 .09 
10 04. 69 
10 95 ১64 
10 96 ১80 
58 29 167 


Owners—Shri Mali Mandal and others. 


(236) No. 21101E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ke wali, Mauza 
Chakchapra, J. Iu. No. 79. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
4 17 1.76 
4 87 1.38 


Owner—Shri Ajim Mandal. 


(237) No. 21103E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
8 30 2.02 
10 8 26 


Chakchapra J. L. No. 79. 
Owner—Shri Ali Mandal. 


(298) No. 21105E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Chakchapra, J. L. No. 79, Khatian No. 37, Plot 
No. 101, Area .61, ‘ Owners—Shri Md. 13386 
Mandal and others. 


(239) No. 21107E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Chakchapra, J. L. No. 79, Khatian No. 46, Plot 
No. 98, 4790 .29, Owners—Shri Md. Fakirchand 
Mandal and others. 


(240) No. 21109E.P.A., dated 29h Apri] 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Chakcehapra, J. 1. No. 79, Khatian No. 121, Plot 
No. 144, Area .47, Owners—Shri Alip Mandal 
and ohers. 


সপ حم‎ পয পপ 


(241) No. 21111E.P.A., dated 29th April 1999. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 


Chakchaprao, J. L. No. 79. 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
7 152 1.86 
7 213 .98 


Owners—Shri Md. Latif Mandal and others. 


(242) No. 21118E.P.A., dated 29th April 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Amghata, J. L. No. 57, Khatian No. 66, Plot No. 
337, Area .15, Owner—Shri Md. Osman Sekh. 


(249) No. 21116E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. IL. No. 81, Khatian No. 494, Plot 
No. £56, Area .26, Owner—Shri Md. Bilat 


Mandal. 
(244) No. 21117E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 61, Khatian No. 271, Plot No. 
289, Area .30, Owner—Shri Md. Musakarim 


Mandal. 


(245) No. 21119E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 40, Plot 
No. 296, Area .99, Owner—Shri Md. Atal Mandal. 


(246) No. 21121E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-stution Kotwali, Mauza 


Hatisala, J. I. No. 81. سے‎ 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

494 295 17 

494 294 19 


Owner—Shri Md. Belatali Mandal. 


(247) No. 21123K.P.A., dated 29th April 196১. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 610, Plot No. 
af Area .12, Owners—Md. Ahad Mondol and 
others. 


(248) No. 21126E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 135, Plot 
No. 1689, Area .87, Owner—Shri Md. 4 
Mondal. 


(249) No. 21127E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 202, Plot 
No. 276, Area .18, Owner—Shri Md. Panchu 
Mondal. 


(250) No. 21129E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-atation Kotwali, Mauza 
Watisala, J. L. No. 81 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
516 1634 16 
331 1383 2.41 


Owners—Shri Md. Hasaraddin Dhabak and 


others. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1936 


]۲۸ 1 


(281) No. 21131E.P.A., dated <9th April 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. J. No. 81, Khatian No. 568, Plot 
No. 1657, Area .26, QOwner—Shri Rabbanj 
Mondal. 


(262) No. 21133E.P.A., dated 29th April 19565, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauzy 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 294, Plot 
sha 1699, Area .14, Owner—Shri Md. Hajarat 

olla. 


(258) No. 21135E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956, 


District Nadia, Volice-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. I.. No. 81, Khatian No. 243, Plot 
ae 1695, Area .15, Owner—Shri Md. Panchkari 
১১6১404), 


(254) No. 21137K.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 74 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 277, Plot 
ا‎ 1650, Area ,22) Owner—Shrimati Saharjan 

101. 


(255) No. 21139E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 232, Plot 
پوت کان‎ Area .43, Owner—Shri Fakir Chand 

ondol. 


(266) No. 21141E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Ilatisala, J. LL. No. 81, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 
1915, Area .14, Owner—Shri Nijam Mondal. 


(257) No. 21148E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. .ا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 146, Plot 
জি Area .30, Owner—Shri Ibrahim 

ondol. 


(258) No. 21145E.P.A., dated 29th April 1985. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 14. No. 81, Khatian No. 121, Plot 
No. 1555, Area .56, Owner—Shri Ebrahim 
Mondol. 


(269) No. 21147E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Iu. No. 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
467 1910 80 
466 1911] ১34. 


Owner—Md. Gorsa Chand Khan. 


(260) No. 21149E.P.A., dated 29th April 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 28 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 247, Plot 
No. 1916, Area .14, Owner—Md. Ningtin 9610) 


(261) No. 21151E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, کو‎ 


Hatisola, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 179, lot 
No. 1661) Area .11, Owner—Md. Kinu Mondol. 


Part T] 


ও পপ تسس‎ পা 


(262) No, 21168E.P.A., dated 29th Apirl 10992, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mausza 
Hatisala, J. IL. No. 81, Khatian No. 340, Plot 
No. 1568, Area .27, Owner—Shri lbrahim Mond: )]. 


(863) No. 21155E.7. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 

Hatisala, J. Ju. ‘No 81, Khatian No. 662, Plot 
No. 2078, Area 1 47, Owner—Md. Panchu 
Mandal. 


A., dated 29th April 1926. 


(264) No. 2U57E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. .ہا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 268, Plot 
No. 1504, Area .49, Owner—Shri Bhanu Mondol. 


(265) No. 2)159K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. ىا‎ "No. 81, Khation No. 179, Plot 
No. 1901, Area .19, Owner—Md. Kinu Mondol. 


(266) No. 21161E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, সিস্ট Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 14. No. 81, Khatian No. 8:38, Plot 
ae 2089, Area 1.89, Owner—Shri Seikh Harip 
ondo 


(267) No. 21168E.P.A., dated 29th April ۰ 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 


Hatisala, J. L. No. 81 


Khatian No. Plot No. Arca. 
139 1651 .50 
139 1652 53 
351 1703 19 


Owners—Shrimati Elachi Bibi and others. 


(268) No. 21165E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. Plot 
AY ‘ 1698, Area .25, Owner—Shri Ibrahim 
ondol. 


(269) No. 21167E.P.A., dated 29th Apri] 1955. 


District Nadia, pees Hanskhali, Muuza 
Khamar-Simulia, J. Iu No. 40, Khatian No. 124, 


Plot No. 2689, 8ھ‎ 30), Owner—Shri Ghami 
afadar. 


(270) No, 21169K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District N adia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khomar-Simulia, J. I. No. 40, Khatian No. 246, 
Wa 2637, Area ,14, Owner—Shri Viku 


Q7l) No. Q1I71E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


019৩1 Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mausa 
hamar-Simulia, J. l. No. 40, Khatian No. 6, 


Plot No. 2675, ‘Area wz, Owner—Shri Panchu 
Mallick. 


678 No, 21173K.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


K District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
pamar-Simulia, | J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 68, 
uct, 0. 198/786, Area .30, Owner—Shri Kalu 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2897 


(273) No. 21175E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Khamar-Simulia, J. L. No. 40, Khatian ‘No. él, 
Plot No. 90, Area 40, Owner—Shri Karan Shekh. 


(274) No. 21177E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 14. No. 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
123 1721 ১46 
300 1722 36 


Qwner—Shri Md. Abdul Mandal. 
(275) No. 21179E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. .ہا‎ No. 81, Khatian No. 217, Plot 
ae 1908, Area .36, Owner—Shrimati Saharjan 
102, 

Owner—Shri Md. Fakir Chand Mandal. 


(276) No. 21181E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
232 177 .09 
232 230 14 


Owner—Shri Md. Fakir Chand Mandal. 


(277) No 21183E.P.A., dated 29th April 1966. 


District Nadia, টিকার Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. I. "No. 81, Khatian No. 84, Plot 
No. 260, Area 1.24, Owner—Shri Md. Ijjat 
Mandal. 


(278) No. 21185E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, ہیں‎ Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. ىا‎ No 81. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
328 1949 38 
328 1238 1.07 


Owner—Shri Md. Harip Mandal. 
(279) No. 21187E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Policestation Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 268, ۷ 
No. 1587, Area ٢ Owner—Shri Md. "Bhanu 
Mandal. 


(280) No. 21189E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
219 1139 34 
340 1407 07 


Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mandal. 


(281) No. 21191E.1.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. Iu. No. 81 


Khatian No. Plot Mo. 1 Area. 
494 1786 43 
404 1716 24 


Owner—Shri Bilat Ali Mandal. 


2898 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


e 


(282) No. 21198E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. 4. No. 81 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
183 1913 .29 
117 175 15 


Owner—Shri Md. Hajarat Molla. 


(283) No. 21195E.P.A., dated 29th April 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-stution Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. LL. No. 81, Khatian No. 277, Plot 
aoe 1912, Area .25, Owner—Shrimati Saharjan 

ibi. 


[Parr ] 


7 


পিই উল. 


(284) No. 21197E.P.A., dated 29th April 1956. 


J)istrict Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian No. 276, Plot 
No, 1536, Area .28, Owner—Shri Md. Rabbani 
Mandal. 


(285) No. 21199E.P.A., dated 29th April 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Hatisala, J. J. No. 81, Khatinn No. 286, Plot 
No. 1201) Area .06 Owner—Shri Md. Panchkari 
Sekh. 

By order of the 
Evacuee Property Management Committee 
for West Bengal, 


J. N. MOOKHERJEE, 
Secretary to the Committee. 


কপ THE 04140701114 GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 2899 


চলল 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No. 2979Dis. / D /11L-406/65.—10th July 1956,—Whereas under the Gov- 
cnment of West Bengal, Iabour Department, order No, 5832Dis. /1)/111- 
406/55 dated the 10th December 1955, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Ta annath Prosad Khettry & Sons, 20 Umesh Dutta Lane, Calcutta-6, and 
۱ : of their employees, Shri"Narayan Chandra Paridya, C/o Shri Sankar K. 
Paridya 69 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1, regarding the matters ৪ ecified 
in the achedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Third Industrial 
Tribuaal ; 

And whereas the said Third Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the State 
Government its award on the said industrial dispute ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby to 
publish the said award as shown 1) the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Jagannath Prosad 
Khettry & Sons, 20 Umesh Dutta Lane, Calcutta-6, and one of their 
employees, Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya, C/o Shri Sankar K. Paridya, 
59 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA. 


PRESENT : 
Sori J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industrial Trebunal. 


For the employee: The employee in person. 
For the Company: Shri N. C. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


AWARD 


٠١ By order No. 5832Dis. /D/11L-406/55, dated the 10th December 1955, 
the Government of West Bengal in the Labour Department, referred under 
section 10 of the Industrial Tnsputes Act, 1947, the industrial dispute 
between Messers. Jaganuath Prosad Khettry & Sons, 20 Umesh Dutta Lane, 
Calcutta-6, and one of their employees, Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya, C/o 
Shri Sankar .کا‎ Paridya, 59 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1, regarding the 
matter specified in the schedule, to the Third Industrial Tribunal consti- 
tited under section 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by notification 
No, 592Dis./D/121-5/52, dated the 28rd February 1953, for adjudication. 


8 After usual summons the parties entered appearance and filed their 
written statements. The pleadings were completed on 21st February 1956. 
[he parties were thereafter directed to file list of documents. The dispute 
wa: then heard on 28th June, 1956. 


3. The matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of 
reference is as follows: — 


To what amount of compensation is Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya 
entitled for dismissal from service? 


DECISION 


٠ Mesars. Jagannath Prosad Khettry & Sons (hereafter called the ‘“employ- 
]ঃ ) are dealers of rickshaw parts. They have a shop at 20 Umesh J)utta 
‘ane, Calcutta, in which they have about 14 employees. Shri Rajendra 


2900 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Darr 1 


a SS 
Prosad Khettry, the eldest son of Shri Jagannath Prosad Khettry, manages 
the business. 


The employee Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya was a general assistant in 
the said shop on a pay of Rs. 65 per month. His work was mainly to pack 
up the articles and to book them in the railway station. According to the 
employee Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya, he was discharged on and from 
29nd January, 1965, while according to the employer he had left service on 
that day as the employer could not agree to give him advance up to Rs, 500. 


Before entering into the merits, let me first deal with the preliminary 
objection taken by the employer regarding maintainability of the reference. 
1t was contended on behalf of the employer that the dispute was an indivi- 
dual dispute and would not come within the language of the definition of 
৫1170081710] dispute’ in section 2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and as such the reference was incompetent. 1 agree that it is so. In the 
‘resent case, none of the workmen in the employ of Messers. Jagannath 
مسا‎ Khettry & Sons or any Union took up cause of Shri Narayan Chandra 
Paridya either leading to or after the present reference. So the dispute as 
referred to is purely an individual dispute which has never been taken up 
by any other workmen or Union. No doubt in the case of Swadeshi Cotton 
Mills Co., Ltd., versus Shri Ram Baran reported in 1953 1..A.C., 189, the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal held that an individual dispute like the present 
one would come within the meaning of the ‘‘industrial dispute’’ as defined 
in the Act, but on the other hand the Calcutta High Court held in the cases 
reported in 55 C.W.N., 256 and 57 C.W.N., 169 that an individual dispute 
was not an industrial dispute as defined in the Act. As the decisions are 
not uniform, the question arises which 1s to be followed by the State Tribu- 
nal. Under Article 227 of the Constitution, every Tribunal in the State در‎ 
subject to the judicial supervision of the State High Court. It being ৪০, 
it is obvious that the law laid down by the High Court is the law as far as 
that State 1s concerned and every Tribunal in the State is bound to accept 
the same. His Lordship Chagla 0. J. of Bombay High Court also so held 
in the case between Gambhirji Odharji and Labour Appellate Tribunal of 
India and others reported in 1955 L.L.J., Volume II, page 202. In the 
circumstances following the decisions of the Calcutta High Court, I find 
that the dispute raised in the present case is not an industrial dispute and as 
such the reference 1s incompetent. 


In view of the above findings no decision is necessary on merits. Had 
it, however, been necessary, I would have also found against the workman 
The case as made out by the employee Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya in his 
written statement of claim is as follows. On 22nd January 1955 when the 
workman approached Shri Rajendra Prasad Khettry for leave of one month 
to go home in connection with his marriage and for an advance of Rs. 600 
for the purpose to be recoverable from his salary in instalments, said Shri 
Rajendra Stoel Khettry told him that under مھ‎ circumstances 
they would give him leave far less advance of Rs. 500, and when the workman 
insisted for the same, he turned him out from the shop with threats of heat- 
ing. Before so doing the employer made him to sign the salary book for 
his outstanding duse of Rs. 9-10-6 but eventually refused to pay him the 
amount. His employment was thus terminated wrongfully. The workman 
accordingly سا‎ for payment of gratuity for 8 months at the rate of Re 
65 per month for his 8 years’ service under the employer as also 3 months’ 
pay in lien of notice besides arrears of salary of Rs. 9-10-6 up to- the 
date of termination of employment. 


parr رآ‎ THE CAJLUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 6 2901 


020 that he had himself quitted the service in the circumstances as 


below : 

Qn 22nd January 1955 when the workman prayed for leave and an 
advance of Rs. 500, Shri Rajendra Prosad Khettry said that he had no ob- 
jection to his going home for a month but he would not be able to pay him 
Its, 600 as advance as the condition of business was not good and as auch 
huge sum was never advanced to any of the employees at any time. But 
the employee would not listen to this. He became angry and quarrelled 
wiih the employers and said that if Rs. 500 were not paid to him as advance 
he would not continue his service under the firm any longer and he 
demanded that his up to date dues of salary should at once be paid. There- 
upon his up to date dues amounting to Rs. 9-10-6 were paid to him forth- 
with for which he made an endorsement on the salary book and signed his 
name. Thereafter the workman told Shri Rajendra Prasad Khettry that he 
would not work in their firm any more and went away without leaving 
any address of the place he was going to. After this the workman never 
came back to the shop. As the workman left his service of his own accord, 
no question of payment of gratuity or compensation did arise. 


In support of his case the workman Shri Narayan Chandra Paridya has 
alone deposed. He is P.W.1. The employer, on the other hand, has 
exumined Shri Rajendra Prasad Khettry hesides proving documents 
Exts. A to J). 


Qn giving careful consideration to the evidence and circumstances, T 
accept employer’s version of the case, which is more probable and natural. 
Qn 22nd January 1965 the workman, according to both sides, approached 
Shri: Rajendra Prosad Khettry for leave for one month as also for an 
advance of Rs. 600 in connection with his marriage. The case of the 
workman that Shri Rajendra Prosad Khettry flatly refused to 156 leave and 
also the advance has been given direct 116 by the workman himself in his 
deposition before this Tribunal. He admitted that Shri Rajendra Prosad 
Khettry granted him the leave prayed for and also agreed to give him an 
advance up to Rs. 100. In his written application before the Labour Direc- 
(01916, 1/%1.4, the workman also so admitted. So the allegation that the 
employer hecame angry because he wanted leave and advance cannot stand. 
On the contrary, it appears that there was cause for the workman to be dis- 
satisfied as Shri Rajendra Prasad Khettry could not agree to give him 
advance beyond Rs. 100. Jn the circumstances, it was more natural that 
the workman flared up and said that he would no Jonger serve if Rs. 500 
were not paid to him as advance. The demand for payment of up to date 
dues also points more in favour of workman's expressing unwillingness to 
continue service under the firm any longer. The workman admittedly made 
endorsement and signed in the salary hook (Ext.C) acknowledging receipt 
of the outstanding dues of Rs. 9-10-6 till then. His allegation that he did 
not receive the said sum is unreliable. If the employer could have agreed 
to give him an advance up to Rs. 100, it is not natural and probable that 
such employer after taking signed acknowledgment would refuse to pay a 
paltry sum of Rs. 9-10-6 which was outstanding till then. The emplover’s 
ease that on their unwillingnesa to grant him an advance of Rs, 500 the 
workman hecame angry and said that he would no longer work and accord- 
ingly he demanded payment of his dues till then is more natural and 
probable. From the evidence, I believe that the workman received his 
outstanding dues of Rs. 9-10-6 till then. IT also believe that after having 
reveived the snid amount he left the job and did not come back. It appears 
that the workman was offered re-employment during conciliation proceed- 
ings by the employer but he refused to accept. Before this Tribunal, too, 


2902 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parry 


the workman expressed his unwillingness to rejoin. These would SU Wort’ 
that he had left the employment lumself. After having done so, it ;, 
obvious, the workman cannot claim either gratuity or notice pay. 

So both in law and on merits, Shri Narayan Chandra Varidya is entitle 
to no relief. 


I award accordingly. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
J. MAITRA, 
Judge. 
JITENDRA NATH MAITRA 
Judge, Third Industrial Trib 
The 29th June 1956. . ۱ 000 


By order of the Governor, 
1), 5. ۲٢ MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3082/ Dis. /D/111.-220/56.—17th July 1956 —Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 20111)15.1])] 
111,29169) dated the 14th June 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Gouri Knitting Factory, 352 G.T. Road, Salkia, Howrah, and one 
of their employees Shri Sachindra Nath Sen Sarma of 4/13 Rashmoni 
Bagan Koad, Beleghata, Calcutta, was referred for adjudication to the Sixth 
Industrial Tribunal ; 

And whereas, on appeal filed by the said Messrs. Gouri Knitting Factory 
against the award made by the said Tribunal on the aforesaid industrial 
disputes the Labour Ap ellate Tribunal sent back the case on remand for 
hearing the said Jower Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal heard the case and 
submitted to the State Government its award on the aaid industrial 
dispute : 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 

In the matter of an Industrial Dispute existing between Messrs. 00811 
Knitting Factory, 352 6.٦٦ Road, Salkia, Howrah, and thoir employee 
Shri Sachindra Nath Sen Sarma of 19 Rashmoni Bagan Road, 
Beleghata, Calcutta (case No. VII1I-186/ 1955.) 

BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 

NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDING, CALCUTTA. 
PRESENT : 
Suri SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sicth Industrial Tribunal. 


This reference made by the Government of West Bengal by order 
No. 2671Dis. /D/11L-220/55, dated Calcutta, the 14th June 1955, relates 
to the dismissal of Shri Sachindra Nath Sen Sarma by Messrs. Gour 
Knitting Factory. 

The issues for adjudication are as follows:— ۱ 

(1) Whether the dismissal of Shri Sachindra Nath Sen Sanna  ل‎ 

justified ? 


(2) What relief including reinstatement is he entitled to? 


গান 0۸040017۳7۸ GAZETTE, JULY 26, 6 2903‏ ہا ہیں 


AWARD 


The case coming up for hearing the parties intimated that they hav 
composed their ‘differences and a settlement has been reached. There is 
no longer any subsisting dispute for adjudication.- A مک‎ dispute’ award 
9 accordingly made. The petition of compromise will be an annexure to 


the same. 
S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge, Sitth Industrial Tribunal. 


ANNEXURE 
BEFORE TIE SIXTH INDUSTRIAT, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
In the matter of Order of 


Reference No. 2671 ))is./D/111.- 
220/05, dated the 14th June 1969. 


The 28th June 1956. 


And 
In the matter of an industrial 
dispute 
Between 
Messrs, Gouri Knitting Factory 
And 


Their workmen, Shri Sachindra 
Nath Sen Sarma. 
The humble petition of the parties 
in the above matter 
MosT RESPECTFULLY SHEWFTH: 


1. That the case has been fixed for hearing today, the 27th June 1956. 


2. That the case has been amicably settled between the parties out- 
side the Tribunal. 


8. That there is no longer any industria] dispute exists between the 
parties. 


4. That the petition may he treated os a part of the award. 


Under the circumstances your Honour may graciously be pleased to pass 
a “no dispute’ award and any other or further order your Honour may 


deem fit and proper. 
For the Employee: 
SACHINDRA NATH SEN SARMA, 
27-6-56. 
Identified by me. 
M. SATIA. Advocate. 
27-6-56. 
For the Employer: 
B, AGARWALA, 


Manager. 
Dated Calcutta, the 27th June 1956. 
S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Sitth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 28th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


2904 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr | 


SS SS ten 
ORDER 


No. 3037Dis. / D/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the Gover. 
ment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3893Dis./D/3A-10 154, 
dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 96971)15.11)1111-411 04, 
dated the 218 July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130))is. /1)/ 71-47 104, 
dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute Textil, 
Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the lig 
attached with the 9010 order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the ৪810 
addendum, dated the 218৮ July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 0 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred fo, 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. 0. Banerjee, District 
Judge (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri 5. C. Mukherjee, District Judge, 
as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribuna] 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Abdul Meah and seven others, 
workmen of Union Jute Co., Ltd. (North), 12 Convent Lane, Entally, 
24-Parganas, before the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging 
that the said Company had punished the said workmen concerned in such 
dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 994. of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, filed by Abdul Meah and seven others in connec 
tion with Covernment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order 
Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48(A)/53, 2029015. /D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D/3A- 
10/54, 3537Dis. /D /7L-47/54 and 4130Dis. /D /7L-47/54, dated 7th April 
1954, 6th May 1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 
1954, respectively, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 
Jute Mills in West Bengal including Union Jute Co., Ltd. (North), 
and their workmen (case No. 16 of 1955). 


PRESENT: 
Surat M. C. BANERJI, Destrict Judge (Hetired), Chairman. 
Suet 5. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 
For the workmen: Shri Joy Gopal Adhikary, Branch Secretary, Bengal 
Chatkal Mazdoor Union. 
For the Jute Mill: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A)/58, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 8 
Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3898Dis. /D/3A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3537)is. / D/7L-47/54, dated 21st July 1954, 
and order No. 41901)15.11)111,-47154, dated 26th August 1954, referred, 
under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947). 


part 1] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2005 


ee کل ھچ چچتٹبتچجھچجججچکچ‎ 
t industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen 
খনির some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was 

published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the জু application 
under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act was fi ed by Abdul Meah 
aud seven others in case No. 16 of 1955, on the allegation that they were 
ermanent workers of the Union Jute Co., Ltd. (North), that from 18th 
October 1954 the petitioners were laid-off by the management, that the 
petitioners have neither been discharged, dismissed or retrenched nor 
given any charge-sheet by the management, that this action of the 
management is not at all bona fide, that in the circumstances the peti- 
tioners pray for reinstatement and consequential reliefs. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
arty, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application submitted by the complainants is not maintainable in law 
as it does not disclose any violation of the provisions of section 33 by the 
Company, that all the complainants were working in the Mill as budlis 
and were not permanent employees as alleged, that the question of laying- 
off the complainants from 18th October 1954, as alleged, does not arise as 
they were hudit workers, that the Company submits that the application of 
the complainants is not maintainable and they are not entitled to reinstate- 
ment and/or any reliefs, that in the circumstances the Company further 
submits that the application under section 383A should be rejected on the 
preliminary point of law and on merits. 


DECISION 


We had not to enter into the merits of thia case as the petitioners filed 
two petitions praying for permission to withdraw their petition for com- 
plaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. We have 
considered the petitions and we grant the petitioners permission to 
withdraw their complaint as prayed for. Both the petitions for 
withdraw will form a part of this award. As the petition of complaint 
under section 33A is withdrawn, there will be a ‘‘no dispute’? award in 


this case. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chatrman. 


শি. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


ANNEXURE 
BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 1954 


In the matter of an industrial dispute 
between Jute Textile Industries 
in West Bengal 

And 
Their workmen 
And 

In the matter of Government order 
No. 1988 Dis. / 1) /7L-48(A) /53, 
dated 7th April 19564 

And 

In the matter of an application of the 
following workmen of the Union 
Jute Co., Ltd., North Mill, 12 
Convent Lane, Calcutta-15. 


2906 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [ Part 1 


০০০০০০০ রাও‏ متے 


The humble petition of the cop. 
plainants is as follows: 


1. The complainants are not permanent workers of the Company as 
has been stated in their application. 


2. The complainants have been paid in all their dues including leave 
wages up to date and Rs, 25 to each as ordered, 


3. In the circumstances, the complainants have no dispute with the 
Company and pray that their application under section 338A may be treated 
as withdrawn. 


(1) L.T.J. of Habib. 
(2) I.T.I. of Abdul Meah. 
M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman. 


১.0, MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA. 


In the matter of the industrial disputes 
(referred under the (tovernment 
of West Bengal, Labour Depart- 
ment, order No, 1988Dis./D/7L- 
48(A)/538, dated 7th April 1954, 
and subsequent order No, 3393- 
Dis. /D/8A-10/54, dated the 12th 
July, 1954) 


Between 
Union North Jute Mills 
And 
Their workmen 
And 
In the matter of an application under 
section 338A of the Industrial 


Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 
1947), 


Jhury T.34, Baldeo ۲.53, Gayaram 
T.1863, Suleman T.1025, Cha- 
mary T.266 and others—Com- 
plainants, 

versus 


Union North Jute Mill. 


The humble petition of the com- 
plainants is as follows :— 


1. The complainants are not permanent workers of the Company ৪9৪ 
stated in their application. 


2. The complainants have been paid all their dues including leave 
wages to date. 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2907‏ “۰ میرم 


০০০ 
In the circumstances, the complainants have no dispute with the 
Company and pray that their application under section 388A may be treated 
as withdrawn. 
Signature of complainants: 
(1) L.T.1. of Jhury T.34. 
(2) 1.7.1. of Baldeo ۰ 
..]7.1. of Gayaram T.1363. 
(4) ٠.7.1. of Suleman. 
: 


I. of Chamary. 
. of Baldeo T.73. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


শি. 4. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 2th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
(۲۰. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3038Dis./D/7TL-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, labour Department, order No. 3393)is./)/ 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537 Dis. / 
D/7L-47/54, dated the Zlst July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / 
10111৮47124) dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned 
in the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said addendum, dated the 2ist July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
26th Auguet 1954, und their workmen represented by the Unions and 
Federations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were 
referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri 
M. C. Banerjee, District Judge (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri 
8. 0. Mukherjee, District Judge, as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Gobin, a workman of 
Kinnison Jute Mills, P.O. Titaghur, 24-Parganas, before the said Tribunal 
against the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished 
the said workman coucerned in ai dispute ; 


And whereas in exercise of the power conferred by section 383A of the 
IndustrialeDisputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government: 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Cobin against Messrs. Kinnison Juté ٥ 
Ltd. in connection with Covernment of West Bengal, Department of 
Labour, order Nos. 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A) /53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 
3393Dis, /D /3A-10/54, 3537Dis. /D /7L-47/54, and 4130Dis. 1 D /7L-47 / 54, 
dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 
26th August 1954, respectively, referring certain industrial disputes 
between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal including Messrs. Kinnison Jute 
Mills and their workmen, 


2908 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr ] 
——oOeeeeeee ই 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT : 

Suri |. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman, 
:8ت5‎ ১. C. MUKHERJI, District Judye, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Gobin, himself, 


For the Jute Mill: Miss P. Mitra of Indian Jute Mills’ Association. 
AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour by order 
No. 1988Dis./D/71.-48(A)/53, dated 701) April 1954, order No. 24: 911s, | 
D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1964, order No. 3393)is./D/SA-10/54, dated 
1261) July 1954, order No. 3587Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 21st July 1954, and 
order No, 4130Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referred, under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen 
regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi. 
cation, The,award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was 
published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 195d. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in case No. 119 of 1955 
was filed by Shri Gobin on the allegation that he was a permanent sardar 
in the preparing department of the Mill, that the applicant applied for 
leave to go home and the Company granted him leave from 17th January 
1955 to 13th March 1955 including 14 days’ leave with full wages, that the 
applicant fell sick at bis home and found himself unable to resume his 
normal duty in time, so he applied by registered post for leave on 
2lst February 1955 for eight weeks’ sick leave, that the applicant did not 
rerelve any reply from the Company, that all on a sudden the applicant 
received a letter from the Company on 13th April 1955 that the Company 
has suspended him, that the petitioner came to Titagarh on 16th April 
1955 with medical certificate and reported to the Manager that he had 
applied for leave by registered post and he is innucent, that the Coin pany 
without serving any charge-sheet and without taking the reply or written 
statement of the applicant has taken wrong action against the petitioner, 
that the Company's action in suspending the petitioner was clearly in con- 
travention of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act and was illegal, 
that the forced unemployment of the petitioner in the way of suspicion is 
unjust and without any offence on the part of Gobin, that under the cir- 
cumstances the petitioner Gobin submits that he is entitled to reinstate- 
ment, full wages for the period of forced suspension, and continuity of 
service. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application of the complainant is not maintainable and there has been 
no violation of the provisions of section 33 hy the Company, that an appli 
cation under section 33 has already been filed before the Tribunal seeking 

ermission for his dismissal, that the petitioner was granted 57 days’ leave 

17th January 1955 as he wanted to go home, but on 19th February‏ سو 
he asked for an extension of 2 months’ leave on the ground that bis‏ 1955 
wife was sick, that as the petitioner had already been given sufficient leave‏ 
the Company rejected his application for extension of leave and informe‏ 
him by a letter, dated 10th March 1955, that on 14th March 1956 the‏ 
petitioner failed to resume his duties and gave no further intimation, that‏ 
on 28th March 1954 a letter was sent to the petitioner by the Company‏ 
asking him to show cause for his absence without leave for more than‏ 


part 1] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2909‏ 
ص>بىبڑژیای6سسسعس٤“سپہپپؤمسستچعستیی‏ اٹ تس کٹ ٹ چٹ وڈٹ سس سسسے 

৪) that the Company decided to dismiss him and informed him hy a 
letter, duted 5th April 1955, that the Company denies that the petitioner 
at any time produced a medical certificate in support of his alleged illness, 
that the suspension of the workman pending permission of the Tribunal, 
does not contravene the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, that in these circumstances his suspension pending’ the Tribunal’s 
ermission to dismiss him was fully justified, that the eine submits 
jhat the complainant is not entitled to reinstatement and/or compensation 
or other relief, that in these circumstances the application of the com- 
plainant should be rejected. 


DECISION. 


We had not to enter into the merits of this case us the petitioner on 
2180 June 1956 filed a petition praying for permission to withdraw his 
petition for complaint under section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act. We 
have read and considered the petition and we grant the petitioner permis- 
sion to withdraw his complaint as prayed for. The petition for withdrawal 
will form a part of this award. As the petition of complaint under section 
38۸ is withdrawn there will be a ‘‘no dispute” award in this case. 


M. C. BANIERJI, 


Chairman. 


8. 0. MUKHERJI, 


Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 
ANNEXURE 


Before the Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, Calcutta, constituted undor 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, amended by the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Labour Tribunal) Act, 1950, order No, 1988Dis./D/7L-48 
یئ‎ রা নি subsequent order No. 3393Dis. /3/3A-10/54, dated 12th 

uly 1954, 
In the matter of industrial disputes 


Between 
Kinnison Jute Mills Co., 160.) 
Titagarh. 
And 
Their workmen 
And 


ln the matter of an_ application 
under section 33A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, for 
contravention of section 38 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


And 
Govin, Rec. No. HG/100, Titagarh, 
24-Parganas ... Applicant, 
versus 


Messrs. Kinnison Jute Mill Co., 
Titd., Titagarh .. Opposite Party. 


Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH : 


1, That the applicant and the opposite party referred tv above made a 
compromise im the above case. 


2910 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr J 


2. That as a result of the above compromise the applicant has tenderey 
his resignation from the service of the opposite party. 


In the circumstances the applicant hereby applies for withdrawal of 
his case from the Industrial Tribunal under section 8٥ے‎ of the Industria] 
رر٦‎ রি 1947, which may kindly be accepted and the case be treated 
as closed. 


(ovin Rec. No. RB/100. 


(L.T 1. of Govin.) 
Filed by 


J. B. Singh, 


Secretary, Kinnison Jute Mill 
Employees’ Union, Titagarh. 


Dated 9th June 1956. 
M. 0. BANERJT, 


Chairman. 


8. C. 81701717101) 
Member. 
The 2217 June 1956 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3035Dis./D/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department order No. 3393Dis. /D/3A- 
10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537Dis. /D/ 
7L-47 /54, dated the 2156 July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4180Dis. /D/ 
71-47 /64, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 218٦ July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
udjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
shag eae as Chairman, and Shri নি. C. Mukherji, District Judge, 
as Member; 


And whergas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal, 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Junkun Bhor and two others, 
workmen of Auckland Jute Mill, P.O. Jagatdal, 24-Parganas, before the 
said Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said Company 
had punished the said workmen concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


part 11 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2911 
এ 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industriat 
Disputes Act, 1947, filed by Shri Jhunkun Bhor and two others in 
connection with Government of West Bengal, Department of Labour, 
order Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48(A) /53, 2329Dis. /D /7L-47/54, 3393Dis. 
D /3A-10/54, 3537Dis./D/7L-47/54 and 4130Ris./D/7L-47/54, dat 
7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 
26th August 1954, respectively, referring certain industrial disputes 
between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal including Messrs. Auckland 
Jute Mill and their workmen (case No. 402 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 


Suet M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (retired), Chairman. 
ھتتة‎ 9. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workmen: Shri Nikhil Roy, Advocate. 
For the Jute Mill: Miss P. Mitra of Indian Jute Mills’ Association. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour by 
order No. 1988Dis. /D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 7954, order No. 2329- 
Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated Oth May 1954, order No. 3398Dis./D/3A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3537D1s./D/7L-47/54, dated 21st July 
1954, and order No. 41360Dis./D/70-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
referred, under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills 
and their workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this 
Tribunal for adjudication. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this 
proceeding was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application 
under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 402 of 1955, 
was filed by Jhunkun Bhor and two others on the allegation that the 
petitioners have served the Company for long eight years, that Shri Bibhuti 
Bhusan Chatterji, bead issue clerk had some urgent necessity of money 
for his daughter’s marriage and as such requested the petitioners to make 
some immediate arrangement of money, further romising to pay the 
money on the next date, that realising the urgency, ۳ petitioners on their 
own risk took loan of Rs. 300 from mahajan on terms of high interest and 
ay the head clerk, that the head clerk failed to pay on the next date, 
ut promised to pay on the date of receiving the salary, that the peti- 
tioners on 2nd May 1955 after closing hours requested the head clerk out- 
side the Mill premises to return the money but the head clerk denied 
everything and there was altercation, that the head clerk made a false 
teport to the Manager against the petitioners but the Manager issued a 
false charge-sheets and suspended the petitioners in violation of the 
standing orders and for this a criminal case was started against the head 
clerk, that the order of suspension is illegal, that the petitioners have 
been thrown out of employment, that under the circumstances the 
petitioners pray that the Tribunal may be pleased to pass an award for 
reinstatement with compensation for the period of unemployment. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 


2912 THE CAIXCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Panr [ 


the application filed by the petitioners is misconceived and not 10181706610. 
able in law as the Company has not violated section 33 of the Industria 
Disputes Act, that the Company has already filed separate application under 
section 33 on 17th May 1955 seeking permission of the Tribunal to dismiag 
the workmen concerned, that the application under section 838A filed by 
the said workmen contains various vague, misleading and incorrect allegy. 
tions and the Compuny denies the same, that the ss ey prays that the 
application under section 383A filed by the complainants should be 
rejected on the preliminary point of law. 


DECISION 


Although a petition of complaint under section 33A alleging violation 
of condition of service for failure to apply under section 33 for permission 
of the Tribunal has been filed, it has now been found by the employers 
that actually this was not the case. They have in fact applied under 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal]. 
We have perused the three applications under section 33 and under section 
83۸ of the Industrial Disputes Act and we find that the petition under 
section 33 covers the ground which forms the subject matter of the com. 
plaint under section 394. of the Industria) Disputes Act and which has since 
been unfortunately struck off as this Tribunal became functus 017০০ after 
one month of the publication of the award. 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India, Ltd. (1955 1515 1৮01. I, page 346), that it is the 
contravention by the employer of the provision of section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act or section 23 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which 
gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the workmen to approach and 
move the respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and 
powers conterred on it by the section. The authority referred to in the 
section is a Court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly 
confined to the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it 
by the Act which constituted it. 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking pemnission 
of the Tribunal was actually filed on the self-same ground, we hold that 
the petition of complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
is not maintamable and we award accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 29th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N.C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 380d86Dis./D/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
(tovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No, 3393Dis. /D/ 
$A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537Dis. / 
D/ 71-47 /54, dated the 21st July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis./ 
D/71.-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned 
in the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read 
with the said addendum, dated the 218۲۴ July 1954, and corrigendum, 
dated the 26th August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions 


part [1 THE 04140010704 GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2913 


সি রর ee 
and Federations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, 
wre veferred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. 
Banerji, District Judge (retired), ود‎ Chairman, and Shr 6১0, Mukherji, 
\jistrict Judge, as Member ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before thé said Tribunal 
, complaint in writing was nade by Shri Bharat Singh, a workman of 
Kbardah Jute Mill, P.O. Titaghur, 24-Parganas, before the said Tribunal 
agaiust the said Company alleging that the said Company had dismissed 
tho said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) ; the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award 10 the State 
Government ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award us shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Bharat Singh in connection with Covernment 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988Dis./D/7L- 
48(A) /53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, 3537 / Dis. /D/ 
7L-47/54 and 4130Dis, /D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954) 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respec- 
tively, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in 
West Bengal including Khardah Jute Mill and their workmen (case 
No. 178 of 1954), 


BETORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Suri M. 07. BANERJI, District Judge (retircd), Chairman. 
১৪] ٠. C. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Bharat Singh, himself, 


For the Jute Aldll; Shri R. .ہا‎ Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association 
with Shri 9. Roy, Labour Officer. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988Dis. /D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329- 
Dis (1) /71-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No, 3893Dis. /1)/38A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3637Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 21st July 
1994, and pee No. 41390Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
telured under sections 7 and 10 of the Industria] ])isputes Act, 1947 (XIV 
of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their 
workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal 
for adjudication. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding 
was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 394 of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 178 of 1954, was 
filed by Shri Bharat Singh on the allegation that he was a permanent 
workman in the Watch and Ward Department of the Khardah Jute Mills, 
that the petitioner was charge-sheeted on 7th July 1954 for alleged negli- 
gence of duty on Ist July 1954 at 4-30 p.m. inasmuch as he allowed another 


2914 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr] 


durwan who was off from duty to enter the Mill Mistry Shop of No, 
Mill, that the petitioner replied to the charge-sheet on 8th July 1954%, 
which he denied the charge as he was not on duty at the gate of the No, ] 
Mill Mistry Shop at 4-J30 p.m. as alleged in the charge-sheet, that ap 
enquiry was announced to be held on the 13th July at 3-30 p.m. but the 
Manager met the petitioner when none else was present and no evidence 
or cross-examination was made and the petitioner also was not asked 10 
bring with him any witness of his own, that on 16th July 1954 the petitione; 
was dismissed from service with effect from Ist July without any permis. 
sion of the Tribunal and still now the Company has not filed any petition 
under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act seeking permission of the 
Tribunal to dismiss the petitioner, that the dismissal is wrongful and 
illegal and the Company has contravened section 33 of the Industria) 
Disputes Act by dismissing the petitioner without the permission of the 
‘Tribunal, that the charge against the petitioner to abate another durwan 
to steal the valuable property of the Company is also not supported by 
facts because the incident happened at the Mill Mistry Shop of No. 1 Mii] 
at 4-30 p.m. on Ist July 1954, that the petitioner has served the Mill for 
long three years without any fine or warning or without any spot in the 
record of service, that in the circumstances the petitioner prays that the 
Tribunal may be pleased to order reinstatement of the petitioner with 
wages for the period of his forced unemployment, 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement contending that the 
application filed by the complainant is misconceived and not maintainable 
in law, that the Company has already filed an application under section 33 
of the Industria] Disputes Act, that the petition of the complainant contains 
various incorrect and misleading allegations, that the Company submits 
that on Ist July 1954 at about 4-30 p.m. while Bharat Singh was on duty 
at the Mill Mistry Shop he opened with dishonest intentions the gate of 
the said shop to let another durwan Chatra Pal who was off duty at the 
time of entering the Mill Mistry Shop and steal valuable property of the 
Company, that the said theft was committed with the knowledge and 
connivance of Bharat Singh, that consequently Bharat Singh was served 
with a charge-sheet on 7th July 1954, that after full enquiry into the 
charges against Bharat Singh the Company informed him by a letter, 
dated 16th July 1954, of the decision of the management that he should be 
dismissed but that until the permission of the Tribunal for such dismissal 
had been obtained he would continue to be suspended, that the Company 
in suspending the complainant pending the permission of the Tribunal to 
dismiss does not contravene the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, that in the circumstances the Company reiterates that the 
application under section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act filed by 
Bharat Simgh is not maintainable and he is not entitled to reinstatement or 
any compensation, that the Company prays that the application under 
section 394 filed by the petitioner should be rejected on the preliminary 
point of law and/or on its merits. 


DECISION 


We had not to enter into the merits of this case as the Company on 
18th June 1956 filed a petition submitted by the workman praying for 
permission to withdraw his petition for complaint under section 33A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act admitting therein that he has tendered 
resignation and has taken his full dues from that Company and has given 
full discharge from its liabilities and that he has no dispute subristing 
against the Company. The Company also filed a receipt for payments made 


pant I] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2915 


to the workman as his dues. We have read and considered the petition and 
rant the petitioner permission to withdraw from the complaint as 
اہ‎ for. The petition for withdrawal and also the receipt for payment 
of hiy dues will form parts of this award. As the petition of complaint 
under section 33A is withdrawn on the above terms, there will be a ‘‘no 


M. 0. BANERJI, Chatrman. 
S. C. MOKHERJ1, Member. 
ANNEXURE 


BEFORE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGALI. 
In the matter of an Industrial Dispute 


The 2th June 1906. 


Between 
ext. A The یس‎ ute Mills 
BA. An 
° me : Their workmen 
18-6-56. And 


In the matter of Government of West 
Bengal, Labour Department, order 
No. 1988Dis. / D/7L-48A/53, dated 
the 7th April 1954 and eubse- 
quent order No. 3393-Dis. /D/3A- 
10/54, dated he 12th July 1954 


n 
In the matter of an application under 
section 383A of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947, filed by 
Bharat Singh 
against 
The Khardah Jute Mills. 


The humble petition of Bharat Singh, 
petitioner hereto. 
Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 

1. That the সু between your petitioner and the Company has 
been amicably settled and that your petitioner has tendered his resignation 
to the Company which has been accepted. 

2. That the Company has made payment of your petitioner’s all dues 
and your petitioner has accepted the same in full and final settlement of 
all his ۰ 

3. Your petitioner has no longer any dispute with the Company and 
prays Your Honour to allow him to withdraw the above application under 
section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

It is therefore prayed that Your Honour may be graciously pleased to 
allow your petitioner to withdraw the said application under section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


And your petitioner as in duty bound, shall ever pray. 


Calcutta, dated 11th June 1956. 
Countersigned by: 
BHARAT SINGH. 
M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman. 


7 8. 06. MOKHERJI, Member. 
he 25th June 1956. 


2016 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr | 


ee ene লি 
ANNEXURE 
Ext. B. 
M. C. BANERJT, 
Chairman. 
18-6-56. 


I do hereby declare that آ‎ have received from the Khardah Jute Mills 
Employees Provident Fund the sum of Ra. 228-04 (Rupees Two hundred 
and twenty-eight annas five and ples three only) being my lrovident 
Fund dues in full. 


I do further declare that I have no further claims either with the 
Khardah Co., Ltd., or with the Khardah Jute Mills Provident Fund. 


BHARAT SINGH. 
Witness: 


ILLEGIBLE, 


7-6-56. 
M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, 11/61/1067, 
The 25th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. 6 


7 ORDER 


No. 3039Dis. /D/71.-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the Goy- 
ernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. O893))is./D/3A- 
10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No, 34387Dinx./D/- 
71.-47/54, dated the 2ist July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis /T)’- 
71,-47/64, dated the 26th August 19654, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
snid addendum, dated the 218٦ July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
Judge (Retired), as Chairman and Shri 8. C. Mukherji, District Judge as 
Member; 

And whereas during the pendency of preceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Golam Hossain Sardar, a workman 
of Delta Jute Mill, P.O. Sankrail, Howrah, before the said Tribunal against 
the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished the 4017 
workman concerned in such dispute: 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 38A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
رت‎ upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Govern- 
ment; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Tidu 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor ia pleased hereby ٥ 
publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


[88111 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2917 
—————————————————EE—————————————————— کت‎ 
ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Golam Hossain Sardar against Delta Jute Mill 
in connection with Covernment order Nos, 1988Dis. /D /7L-48(A) /53, 
2329015.1 0 /7L-47 154) 33531015.1 D /3A-10/54, 3537Dis, /D '7L-47 /54, and 
৪1041301015, D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 12th July 
1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, referring 
certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal 
including Messrs. Delta Jute Mill and their workmen (case No. 162 of 


1955). 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT: 


Sprit M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (retired), Chatrman. 
Sunt S. C. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
No 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329Dis. /D/- 
71-47/64, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54 dated 12th 
111 1954, order No. 8607Dis. /D/71-47/54, dated 21st July 1954 and order 
No 4180Dis. /D/73.-47/54, dated 26th August 1964) referred, under sections 7 
and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute hetween 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen regurding some 
matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award 
ot this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 6th October 1956. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 838A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 162 of 1955 was filed 
by Shri (30187) Hossain Sardar on the allegation that he had been working 
naa weaver in the said Mall since 17th April 1945 without any break, that 
the petitioner was charge-sheeted on 4th May 1955 for allowing an 
unauthorised person to operate the loom at 3 p.m. on 4th May 1955 and tor 
hatitual neglect of work, that the petitioner was suspended forthwith, that 
the petitioner explained the actual position in reply, that the petitioner was 
not at all aware if any outsider had been working in his place, that the 
second allegation is not maintainable as no specific instance of negligence 
hus heen produced by the Company, that the allegations are purely 
mix onceived, vague, Indefinite and untrue, that by suspending the petitioner 
without permission of the Tribunal during its pendency, the opposite party 
has :ontravened section &3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that in the 
circumstances the petitioner prays for reinstatement with full compensation 
10 the period he has been kept out of employment. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the Company, 
the opposite party filed its written statement on 14th September 1955 stating 
that the petition under section 38۸ of the Industrial Disputes Act filed by 
Golam Hossain Sardar is misconceived and is not maintainable in law وو‎ the 

ompany has not, in any way, violated section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, that the Company has alrendy filed an application under sertion 33 
feeking permission of the Tribunal to dismiss the said workman, that the 
ear of the workman contains various vague, misleading and false 
megations which the Company denies, that on 4th May 1955 at 3 p.m. 


2918 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr ] 
SSS A ET সশা সল্্্ 
Golam Hossain was found absent from his work without permission entrist. 
ing an unauthorised person to work on his loom, that as the workman’s action 
umounted to misconduct, he was served with a charge-sheet, that the work. 
man was thereafter suspended pending permission of the Tribunal to dismiss 
him and the Company applied under section 38 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act for such permission, that the Company reiterates that there has been no 
contravention of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act that the Company 
in the circumstances submits that the application should be rejected on the 
preliminary point of law and also on the merits of the case. 


DECISION 


We had not to enter into the merits of this case as the petitioner رو‎ 
16th May 1956 and 13th June 1966 filed two petitions praying for permission 
to withdraw his petition for complaint under section 338A of the Industria) 
Dispute Act. We have read and considered the petition and we grant the 
petitioner permission to withdraw his complaint as prayed for. The petitions 
for withdrawal will form a part of this award. As the petition of complaint 
under section 33A is withdrawn, there will be a “no dispute’? award ip 


this case. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 
8. 0. MUKHERJI, Member, 
The 25th June 1966. 
ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE JUTE INDUSTRIAI, TRIBUNAL, GOVERNMENT OF 
WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT; 
Surr M. 0. BANERJI, Judge, Chatrman. 
Suet 9. 0. MUKHERJI, Judge, Member. 


In the matter of Industrial Dispute 
Between 
Golam Hossain Sardar ... 17668650176. 
And 
Messrs. Delta Jute Mill 


15 Opposite Party. 
In the matter of "۳ '‌ under 
0 934 of the Industrial Disputes 
ct. 
This petition of your humble peti- 
tioner, Golam Hossain Sardar, 


MoST RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


1. That your petitioner filed an application under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act before your Honour about o year ago. 


2. That it has been rather impossible for your petitioner to wait for 
such a long time without any hope of its speedy llc 


o. That your petitioner could have won this case, if it would have beet 
heard, but unfortunately due to inordinate delay in the disposal of the above 
application, your petitioner has no other alternative but to withdraw bi 
above application in order to enable your petitioner to realise his Provident 
Fund money, etc. 


part I] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2019 


herefore your petitioner prays that Your Honour will be pleased to 
F = your petitioner to withdraw the above application under section ۸ 
of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


And your petitioner as in duty bound shall ever pray. 
GOLAM HOSSAIN SARDAR. 


M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 
S. 0. MUKHERJI, Member. 


Dated the 15th May 1956. 


The 26th June 1956. 
ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE JUTE TEXTILE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAI, WEST 
BENGAL. 


PRESENT : 
Suri M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman. 
Surt ৪. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 


In the matter of an application 
under section 338A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. 


Golam Hossain Sardar, sacking 
weaver No. 493, E/B No. 2877, 
village Gandharbapur, P. O. Hirapur, 
via Fort Gloster, Howrah 

Complainant, 
VErsUS 

The Delta Jute Mills Co., Ltd., P.O. 

Manikpore, Howrah 
ve Opposite Party. 


The humble petition of the com- 


plainant workman abovenamed, 
11080 RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


That he has tendered resignation and does not intend to pursue this‏ .ا 
complaint,‏ 


_&. That, in the circumstances, he craves Your Honour’s indulgence to 
withdraw the complaint and prays that Your Honour would be pleased to 
treat the same as withdrawn and pass orders accordingly, permitting the 
Company to discharge the petitioner. 


And for this act of kindness, as in duty bound, your petitioner shall over 
pray. 


GOLAM HOSSAIN SARDAR. 


M. 0. BANERJI, Chairman. 
S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 


Dated the 13th June 1966. 


The 25th June 1966. 


By order of the Governor, 
N.C. MAITRA Dy. Secy. 


2920 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr] 
ee 
ORDER 


No. 3040Dis./D/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3393Dis. رڑ/‎ 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3037 Dis, | 
D/7L-47 /54, dated the 2181 July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4180Dis,; 
TD /7L-47/54, dated the 26th Avgust 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 2191 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Fedemations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, District 
جات‎ (retired), as Chairman, and Shri 8. 06. Mukherji, District Judge, as 

ember; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings hefore the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Ramrachcha Pandey, g 
workman of Shamnagar North Jute Mill, P.O. Bhadreswar, Hooghly, before 
the said Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said Company 
had punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Ramrachcha Pandey in connection with Government 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988015.1 017. 
48(A)/53, 2329Dis. D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, 3537Dis. / D /7L- 
47/54 and 4130Dis./D,/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, Gth May 1954, 
12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
Bengal including Samnagore North Mills and their workmen (Case 
No, 172 of 1955), 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suri M. 0. BANERJI, istrict Judge (retired), Chairman. 
Sort 8. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri Ramrachcha Pandey, himself. 


For the Jute Mill: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association. 


part 1] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2921 


লি লস সত 
AWARD 

The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
xy, 1988Dis. /D/7TL-48 (A) /58, dated 7th April 1954, order No, 2829Dis. / D 
71471 164, dated 6th May 1954, order No, 39997)18. it {$A-10/54, dated 12t 

jy 1954, order No. 3037 Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 21st July 1954, and order 
No. 4 (80Dis. /D/71.-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referred, under sections 
“and 10 of the Industria! Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute between 10} specified Jute Mills and their workmen regarding some 
matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award 
of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was published in the Calcutta 
Gacette, dated 6th October 1956, 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 172 of 1955 was filed 
by the workman Shri Ramrachcha Pandey on the allegation that he was a 
srmanent workman, employed as a durwan in the Watch and Ward 
Department of the Mill, that on 4th July 1955 the petitioner was given a 
charge-sheet alleging that at approximately 9 a.m. on 2nd July 1955, he 
along with four others snatched away from Moinuddin, retired dandi of 
cargo boat No. 20, a sum of 183. 244 which had heen paid to him as his 
retiral dues, and that the amount was returned to the rightful owner on 
the intervention of the Senior Labour Officer of the Company, that the 
petitioner submitted his explanation on 811) July 1955, that the opposite 
party put him under suspension from 4th July 1909 till the permission to 
dismiss him was obtained from the Tribunal, that in the circumstances the 
petitioner prays for reinstatement with compensation for the period of 
forced unemployment. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application under section 33A 18 misconceived and not maintainable in 
law as the Company has not in any way violated section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, that the Company has already filed an application under 
section 33 on 18th July 1955 seeking permission of the Tribunal to dismiss 
the workman concerned, that pending such permission he was suspended, 
that in the circumstances the Company prays that the application under 
جو‎ ge filed by the complainant should be rejected on the preliminary 
pont of law. 


DECISION 


We had not to enter into the merits of the case as the petitioner on 30th 
‘April 1956 filed a petition praying for permission to withdraw his petition 
‘for complaint under section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act. We have 
jconsidered the petition and we grant the petitioner permission to withdraw 
‘his complaint as prayed for. The petition for withdrawal will form a part 
101 this award. As the petition of complaint under section 88۸ is withdrawn 
‘there will be a ‘‘no dispute’? award in this case. 


M. C, BANERJI, Chatrman. 


8. ١. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


2922 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Part ] 


আসা 


ANNEXURE 
Filed by Biswanath Ash, Advocate. 


BEFORE THE JUTE TEXTILE INDUSTRIES TRIBUNAL, ۲7 
BENGAL, SHRI M. C. BANERJI, AND SHRIS. C. MUKHERJEE, 


MEMBER. 
In the matter of an application unde 
section 383A of the Industria] 
Disputes Act, 1947. 


Shri Ramrachcha Pandey, durwan, 
Token No. 26, C/o Fouder Pap. 
dey, Maniknagar, near Bhadres. 
war High School, P.O. Bhadres. 
war, district Hooghly, Applicant, 


Versus 


Samnuggur North Mills, P.O. Badres. 
war, district Hooghly, Opposite 
Party. 


The humble petition of the applicant 
abovenamed, 


Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


1. That the applicant has made a complaint under section 23 of the 
Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act before the Hon’ble Labour 
Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta, and he is also contesting the opposite party’s 
application under section 22 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, before the same Hon’ble Tribunal. 


2. That the aforesaid two applications came up for hearing hefore the 
said Hon’ble Tribunal on 26th April 1956, and have been adjourned to 8rd 


May 1956. 


3. That in pursuance of an undertaking given to the said Hon’ble 
Tribunal that the applicant would withdraw his application under section 
334. now pending before this learned Tribunal, the applicant hereby submits 
that he dves not press the application and prays that this learned Tribunal 
would be pleased to treat the same as withdrawn and puss orders 
accordingly. 


And for this act of kindness, the applicant, as in duty bound, shall ever 
pray. 


Calcutta, the 30th April 1956, 


RAMRACHCHA PANDEY. 


M. 0. BANERJI, Chatrman. 


S. C. MUKHERJI, Member 
The 25th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy 


part1] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2993 


ORDER 


“No. 3046Dis./D/7L-22/56.—l16th July 1956.—Whereag under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 33893Dis./D/ 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 35387Dis/ 
})/7L-47 /54, dated the 21st July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / 
D/7L-47 / 54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mulls metioned 
in the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said addendum, dated the 218 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
2011) August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions aud 
Federations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1964, wore 
referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, 
Distritt Judge (retired), as Chairman, and Shri 8. C. Mukherji, 1)1517100 
Judge, »8 Member; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Ramjan, a workman of Lansdowne 
Jute Mill, Dakhindari, P.O. Belgachia, 24-Parganas, before the said 
Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said Company lad 
punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 338A otf the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Ramjan in connection with Covernment of West 
Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48(A) /53, 
2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis. /D /7L-47 '554, 
and 4130Dis, /D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 12th 
July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, referring 
certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal 
including Messrs. Lansdowne Jute Mills and their wormen (case No. 89. 
of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT; 

Sunt M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (retired), Chairman. 

Suri ٠. C. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


For the workman: Shri S. C. Das Gupta, Advocate. 
For the Jute Mill: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
order No. 1988Dis. /D/7L-48(A) /53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329- 
Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3398Dis./D/3A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3537Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 2156 July 
1954, and order No. 4180Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
referred, under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 


2924 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Part | 


(XIV of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills aud 
their workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to tly 
Tribunal for adjudication. The award of this Tribunal in respoct of this 
proceeding was published in the Calcutta Gazette, duted Gth October 1955. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 383A was filed by the complainant Ramjan stating that he 1s im service 
under the Company for about 80 years without any fault, that there was a 
strike of the workers on account of some dispute between the Company and 
the workers regarding working hours, and this was followed by a lock-out 
declared by the Management, that thereafter on 12th July 1954 during 
lock-out the Company got some workers arrested from inside the Mill 
premises, that though the petitioner was quite innocent of the matter of 
strike, he was arrested by the police on mere suspicion and was sent to jail 
at Dum Dum and Barrackpore, that the Company has filed a petition under 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act on incorrect and false grounds, 
that in the circumstances the petitioner prays for an order of the Tribunal 
to allow him to continue in service pending decision of the application under 
section J3 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement on 26th April 1955 statin, 
that the application of the complainant Ramjan contains various 1160711 
and misleading allegations, that on 12th July 1954 at about 7 a.m. workers 
of almost all the departments resorted to an illegal stay-in strike. that those 
workers who resorted to violence and lawlessness were arrested by the 
police, that Ramjan was also arrested on 12th July 1954 for indulging in 
similar activities, that a charge-sheet was issued to him and after enquiry 
he was found guilty of charges which amounted to misconduct and he was 
suspended pending the permission from the Tribunal for his dismissal, that 
in the circumstances the opposite party submits that the application of the 
complainant Ramjan under section 994 should be rejected. 


DECISION 


Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of 
service for failure to apply under section 33 for permission of this Tribunai 
has been filed, it has now heen proved by the employers that actually this 
is not the case. In fact they applied under section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused the two 
applications under section 33 and under section 338A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and we find that the petition under section 88 covers the 
ground which forms the subject matter of the complaint under section 334 
of the Indestrial Disputes Act and which has since been struck off as the 
oo became functus oficto after one month of the publication of the 
award. 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India Ltd. (1955 L.I..J., Vol. I, page 346) that it is the 
contravention by the employer of the provision of section 88 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act or section 28 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which gives 1186 
to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and move the 
respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and powers 
conferred on it by the section. The authority referred to in the section 
is a court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be strictly conftned 
to the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on it by the Act 
which constituted it. 


part 11 THE 04140010014 GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2925 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission 
ot the Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the 
ition of complaint under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act is Lut 


maintainable aud we award accordingly. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


5. © MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 2th June 1996. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy 


ORDER 


No. 3041) Dis. /D/71.-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department order No. 3393Dis. /D/ 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3587Dis. | 
D/7L-47 /54, dated the 21st July 1904, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / D/ 
147/564, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 21st July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 26th 
August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federations 
mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred for 
adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shr .لا‎ C. Banerji, District 
Judge (Retired), as Chairman, and Shn 8. C. Mukherji, District Judge, 
as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri [18 Bhusan Chatterjee, a workman 
of Auckland Jute Mill, P.O. Jagatdal, 24-Parganas, before the said Tribunal 
aguinst the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished the 
said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Hari Bhusan Chatterjee in connection with 
Covernment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order Nos. 1988- 
Dis,/D/7L-48(A)/53,  2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, 
$537Dis. /D/7L-47/54 and 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 
6th May 1954, 12th July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, 
referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in West 
Bengal including Auckland Jute Mills and their workmen (case 
No. 192 of 1955), 

PRESENT: 


Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Suri 9. 0. MUKHERJI, District Judge, Member. 


2926 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Pant 1 


For the workman: Shni Nikhil Roy, Advocate. 
For the Jute Mill: Mr. Craven with Mr. A. Das. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
No. 1988Dis. /D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329Dis. /1); 
7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 8۰ 1০ /98-101 04, dated 121 
July 1954, order No, 3587Dis. /D/7L-47 /54, dated 21st July 1954, and order 
No. ঘা 7L-47 /54, dated 26th August 1954, referred under sections 
7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their workmen regarding some 
matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication. The award 
of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the present application under 
section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act was filed by Shri Hari Bhusan 
Chatterji in case No. 192 of 1955 on the allegation that he is a permanent 
workman of Messrs. Auckland Jute Co., Ltd., and had been working as time. 
keeper in the C.W. Shop Department of the Mill for more than 35 years 
with uniform good record of service, that the management with an ulterior 
motive most wrongfully issued a charge-sheet to the petitioner on 17th 
June 1955, that on 20th June 1955, the management informed the petitioner 
that after full enquiry their decision is that he should be dismissed but 
until the permission of the Tribunal has been obtained he wil) continue to 
be suspended, that the management has contravened the provisions of section 
93 of the Industrial Disputes Act, that the suspension of the petitioner 
pending permission of the Tribunal for dismissal is wholly mala fide, unjust, 
unfair and illegal, that in the circumstances he prays for reinstatement with 
all his wages and allowances for the period of his unemployment. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement in which it contended that 
the application under section 33A filed by Shri Hari Bhusan Chatterji is 
misconceived and not maintainable in law, that the Company had already 
filed an application seeking permission of the Tribunal to dismiss Shri Hari 
Bhusan Chatterji, that Shri Hari Bhusan Chatterji had fabricated wage 
tickets in the name of persons who were not employed in the department 
concerned and thereby involved considerable loss to the Company, and on 
111) May 1955 a charge-sheet was given to him, that on receipt of his 
explanation and after full enquiry he was found guilty of misconduct 
under the Standing Orders, that the Company has not violated section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, that the Company submits that the 01811 of 
the petitiener is untenable and the workman is neither entitled to reinstate- 
پت‎ ong any wages for the period of suspension and/or any relief as claimed 
y him, 


DECISIONS 


At the time of hearing, both parties came to a compromise and filed 8 
joint petition of compromise. We perused the joint petition of compromise. 
The terms are fair and legal. We accept the petition of compromise and 
make our award in terms thereof. The petition of compromise will form 4 


part of this award. | 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairmen. 


8. 0. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 25th June 1956. 


perl] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 2927 


RN IE aT ITS a a a SET Ag‏ ا i‏ ”ےچس کت 


ANNEXURE 


BEFORE THE JUTE TEXTILE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 
WEST BENGAL, 


In the matter of an application under 
section 994 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, Hari Bhusan 
Chatterjee, Applicant, 

versus 

Messrs, Auckland Jute Mill Co., Ltd., 

Opposite Party. 


The humble petition of the applicant 
abovenamed 
Moat RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH : 


1. That the above matter has been amicably settled between the parties 
on the following terms. 
2. That the applicant resigns from service with immediate effect. 


3. That the applicant will be paid retiring gratuity and Provident Fund 
(both sides contribution) as per rules applicable to Jute Mills. The above 
payment shall be made within the week ending with 19th May 1956. 


4, That the period of suspension from 17th June 1955 will be treated as 
leave without pay. 


The humble petitioner prays that Your Honour would be pleased to 
make an award accordingly. 


And for this act of kindness your petitioner as in duty bound shall ever 
pray. 
Calcutta, the 9th May 1966. 
HARI BHUSAN CHATTERJEE. 


Agreed. 
L. A. CRAVEN, 
Chief Labour Officer, 
-0-96. 
M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 


8. 0. MUKHERJI, Member. 
The 26th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
N.C. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3047Dis./D/7L-22/56.—16th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3393Dis./D/ 
8A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 30937 Dis. / 
10111471164), dated the 2186 July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / 
N/71,-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial dispute in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned 
in the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said addendum, dated the 2186 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
২60) August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and 


2928 THE CAILCUPTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 | Parr | 


Federations mentioned in the said order, dated the 126 July 1904, wey, 
referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Ml. C. Banern, 
District Judge (Retired), us Chairman, and Shri 8, C. Mukherji, 41 
Judge, as Member; 

And whereas during the pendancy of proceedings befure the ২10 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Suleman, a workman of 
Angus Jute Mill, Bhadreswar, P.O. Angus, Hooghly, before the said 
Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said Company had 
punished the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conterred by section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tmbunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is _plensed 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Suleman in connection with Covernment order 
Nos. 1988Dis. /D /7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, 0, 
7L-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, dated 12th July 
1954, 3537Dis./D /7L-47 /54, dated 21st July 1954 and 4130Dis./D,7L- 
47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referring certain industrial disputes 
between 101 Jute Mills in West Bengal including Messrs. Angus Jute 
Mill and their workmen (case No. 92 of 1955) and in the matter of an 
application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 7, 0 
by Suleman in connection with Covernment order Nos. 1988Dis./D 
7L-48(A) /53, dated 7th April 1954, 2329Dis./D/7L-47'54, dated 6th 
May 1954, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, dated 18th July 1954, 10 
747 '54, dated 21st July 1954 and 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th 
August 1954, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute 
Mills in West Bengal including Messrs. Angus Jute Works and their 
workmen (case No. 365 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT : 
Surr M. C. BANERJI, 1)15180 Judge (Retired), Chairman. 
Suri S. C. MUKHERJI, Dastnet Judge, Member. 
For the Workman: Shri Rajani Mukherji. 
For the Jute Mali: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills’ Association 
with Mr. Jacks. 
AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, hv 
order No. 1988Dis. /D/71.-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2949, 
Dis. /D/71-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3891(8. ৮ 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3587Dis. /D/7L-47/54, 08090: 2186 July 
1954 and order No. 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
referred under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV 
of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their 
workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal 
for adjudication. The Award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding 
was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


pati] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 2929 
a پمسسسسحچےہمہسشسچمحسسحسحسحسسشپٹٹشسہہچچجچ'جسج شس شش‎ সস এস 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, one application under section 
111 of the Industrial Disputes Act in case No. 92 of 1955 was filed by the 
petitioner Suleman stating that 18th March 1954 was fixed for hearing of 
the matter, and it was Adjéurned to Ist April 1955 tor non-appeazance of the 
opposile party, that during the hearing the representative of the petitioner 
showed soine papers and submitted something in English which the petitioner 
could not understand, that after rending out the charge-sheet Mr. Khan told 
the petitioner that he was really charge-sheeted, that the charge-sheet which 
ig under some chapter, some clause of some conditions which had never 
heen certified by the Certifying Officer, that the charge-sheet is dated 9ch 
August 1954 and the employee’s explanation of the charge is also dated Yth 
August 1954, that the petitioner was not given any time at all to explain 
in writing, that under the circumstances this petition under clause (a) of 
section 33 of the Act be please read with the petition under clause (b) of 
section 33 of the Act filed on 16th August 1954 which has been thoroughly 
exploded and the so-called charge-sheet be cancelled and stringent action is 
prayed for costs and other reliefs. 


Notice of the aforesaid application having been served on the opposite 
party, the company filed its written statement stating that the application 
under section 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act is not maintuinable in 
law as no violation of section 39 of the Industrial Disputes Act has been 
made by the Company, that the Company submits that the petitioner wlio 
19 an employee of the Augus Co. is under the direct control and discipline اہ‎ 
the Head Office and that the Angus Company through its Managing Agents 
and not the Manager of the Angus Jute Works are the proper employers 
of the above Workman, and that as such, the Manager, Angus Jute Works, 
hag no locus standi in the matter, that the Company submits that the 
complaint of the petitioner relates to the warning issued by the Company 
on 13th August 1954 after a charge-sheet was issued to him for habitual 
absence and insubordination, that the service conditions framed 10 the 
Company for River Transport Staff incorporate the provisions of the Stand- 
ing Orders applicable in the case of jute mill workers, that in the cir- 
cumstancea the Company submits that the application of the petition be 
rejected and the petitioner 18 not entitled to any cost or relief as claimed. 


While the aforesaid dispute was pending, the other appheation under 
section 88۸ of the Industrial Disputes Act was filed by the petitioner 
Suleman, Dandi, in case No. 365 of 1955 stating that he was a Dandi 
employed as permanent workman in boat No. 5 of ‘Angus Jute Works, that 
the Manager, Angus Jute Works, is the employer who represents the Angus 
Jute Works, the employers, that during the pendency of the adjudication 
proceedings before the Tribunal, the petitioner had been suspended by way 
of harsh punishment without giving the petitioner any scope to produce 
evidence to defend himself, that no amount should be deducted on account 
of this wrongful punishment, that in the circumstances the petitioner prays 
that the cost and other reliefs which the Tribunal deems fit and proper 
should be awarded. 


Notice of the aforesaid complaint having been served on the opposite 
party, the Company filed its written statement on 30th November 1955 
stating that the application under section 338A filed by Suleman, Dandi, 
contains various vague, misleading and incorrect allegations, that ihe 
ompany submits that it has already filed an application under section 33 
9 12th October 1955 seeking permission to dismiss the workman concerned 
and pending such permission he was suspended, that in the circumstances 


2930 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr 1 


ihe company prays “that the application under section 8304 filed by phe 
ক should be rejected on “the preliminary point of law and dy 
merits. 


For the sake of convenience ‘of decision these two cases are taken up 
together and hence this Award will govern both the cases. 


DECISION 


Although a petition of complaint alleging violation of condition of 
service for failure to apply under section 33 for permission of this Tribunal 
has been filed, it has now been proved by the employers that actually this 
is not the case. In fact they applied under section 33 of the Industria] 
Disputes Act for permission of the Tribunal. We have perused the two 
applications under section 33 and under section 388A of the Industria] 
Disputes Act and we find that the petition under section 383 covers the 
ground which forms the subject-matter of the complaint under section ৭) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act in each case and which has since heen struok 
off as the Tribunal became functus officio after one month of the publication 
of the Award. 


It has now been held by the Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India Ltd. (1955 L.L.J., Vol. I, page 346) that it 18 the 
contravention of the employer of the provision of section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act or section 28 of the Appellate Tribunal Act which 
gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the workman to approach and 
move the respective authority concerned of the additional jurisdiction and 
power conferred on it by the section. The authority referred to in the 
section is a Court of Limited Jurisdiction and must accordingly be stgictly 
confined to the exercise of functions and powers actually conferred on itwby 
the Act which constituted it. 


In the present case it being proved that a petition seeking permission 
of the Tribunal was actually on the self-same grounds, we hold that the 
petition of complaint under section 894. of the Industrial Disputes Act in 
each of these cases Nos. 92 of 1955 and 365 of 1955 is not maintainable and 


we award accordingly. 

M. C. BANERJI, Chairman. 
The 26th June 1966. 

S. C. MUKHERJI, Member. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


0 01217 


THURSDAY, JULY 26, 6 


PART 1A—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
নতম India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 


and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF 
INDIA, CALCUTTA 


Appeal No. Cal,-162 of 1955 
Shri Sreeman Chandra Bose 7 oe .. Appellant, 
VETSUS 


Messrs. Calcutta Jute Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Calcutta ... Hespondent. 


In the matter of an appeal against the award of Shri M. C. Banerjee, 
Judge, Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, made on 27th May 1955, in 
respect of an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 19th May 1955. 


PRESENT : 


হয A. T. DAS GUPTA, President. 
Suri §. B. SINGH, Member. 


Appearances : 


For the 4: : (1) Shri D. L. Sen Gupta, Advocate, with (2) Shri 
H. L. Roy, Pleader, and (3) Shri M. Saha, Advocate. 
For the Respondent; Shri S. C., Sen, Advocate. 


State : West Bengal. 
Industry : Jute. 


DECISION 


This appeal is against an award of ihe First Industrial Tribunal, West 
Bengal, dated 27th May 1955, and published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
24th June 1955. By order No. 2869 Dis./D);7L-15/54, dated 4th June 1954, 


two issues were referred to the Tribunal— 


* (1) Whether the Company was justified in terminating the services 
of Shri Sreeman Chandra Basu on grounds of superannuation? 


(2) What relief Shri Basu is entitled to? 


Issue No. 1 was decided against Shri Basu. Hence this appeal by him. 


Shri Basu, a cashier in the Respondent 7 was retired by order, 
dated 380th November 1958, with effect from Ist December 1958, on the 
رد‎ of having reached the age of superannuation with an offer to get 

is dues per Jute Award. He denied having reached that age and 
imputed bad faith to the Company. When he demanded his pay and other 
dues, Company made a deduction of Rs. 2,932-0-6 from his dues. Con- 
ciliation failing, this reference was made. He denied Company’s claim 
for outstandings against him. The Adjudicator found against him on this 
matter as ell and awarded him only the balance, after calculating his 
gratuity uccording to the provisions of Chapter VA of Industrial Disputes 
Act and deducting therefrom the amount due to the Company. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Regarding the rule of retirement, the workmen’s Union whose 
registered office is in the appellant’s house, served a charter of demands on 
the Company on 29th January 1953, one of the demands being that ‘“‘a 
man shall retire after completing 55 years of age and in exceptional cases 
where parties agree extension may be granted’’. Company says it accepted 
this demand. Appellant’s contention 1s that the Company did not accept 
any of the demands, never intimated to the Union its acceptance of any 
demand and that it could not accept one demand out of many, some of 
which were inter-related to the matter of retirement, e.g., rate of gratuity. 
The Adjudicator has believed the Company’s case that it had accepted 
this demand of the Union, as the junior section of the employees was getting 
restore. This is a finding of fact and there being evidence in support of 
it, it cannot be disturbed in appeal. 


As to the appellant’s age, a statement marked A showing the age of 
different employees, was enclosed with the said charter of demands, in 
which the appellant’s age was shown as 54 years, on Ist December 1952. 
The Company got the ages of different employees ascertained. In a slip 
Ext. E, 1897 is given as the year of appellant’s birth and this entry is 
initialled by him. Appellant denied this initial. Shri Panchanan Chanda, 
O.P.W. 1, assistant cashier proved this initial. The Adjudicator believed 
him. Appellant was cashier. Shri Chanda was assistant cashier. He 
knew appellant’s initial. We find no reason to disagree with the learned 
Adjudicator. Born in 1897, the appellant was over 55 on Ist December 
1963. He was rightly retired. 


Regarding deductions from the amount due to the appellant, he pleaded 
in paragraphs 32 and 33 of his claim statement that being cashier he had 
to maintain suspence cash account of sundry payments and receipts and 
this account need not have appeared in the original cash book and had to 
be kept in kutcha cash book. The Company purchased several shares in 
different companies in the appellant’s name all of which are not known to 
him and Shri Dayaram Babu used to pay Rs. 50 per month in the 
appellant’s name from his own funds for reasons best known to him. As 
a faithful servant he has done many things in the interest of the Company 
details of which shall be furnished at the time of hearing, these being 
business secrets. Company replied that these allegations are distortions of 
facts and on checking accounts a balance of Rs. 3,315-0-6 was found against 
him. Though he had admitted his guilt, still due to his long service, the 
management allow him to pay Rs. 50 per month from his salary. A 
further sum of Rs. 1,017 was lying to his debit in the Company’s books. 
Out of this total of Rs. 4,300 and odd he paid Rs. 1,400 leaving a balance 
of Rs. 2,932-0-6 against him. In his examination-in-chief the appellant 
did not say a word relating to their matter. In cross-examination, he 
denied that he had defalcated any money, but admitted signing the 
vouchers which fasten Tiability on him. Shri Panchanan Chanda deposed 
to the balance outstanding against the appellant and the alleged under- 
standing against the appellant that the appellant would pay 
Rs. 50 per month out of his monthly salary. He denied in cross- 
examination that this money was not taken by the appellant and 
was kept for the Company’s business. The Company tendered in evi- 
dence the vouchers signed by the appellant. The Adjudicator believed 
Company’s case. In appeal, Shri D. L. Sen Gupta argued for the appel- 
lant that Shri Daya Ram Poddar purchased shares in the appellant’s name 
to avoid payment of income-tax and when appellant was assessed to tax on 
that account, he approached Shri Daya Ram Poddar who teld him that he 
(Poddar) weuld pay the amount of income-tax. This explanation was 
neither given in these words in the claim statement nor in the appellant’s 
statement nor was it put to Shri Chanda, 0.P.W. 1. Therefore, it can- 
not be accepted in appeal, when there is no evidence in support of it. 
Shri D. L. Sen Gupta argued that Shri Poddar must have entered the 
witness box and denied this version of the appellant. But it was not put 
forth by the appellant in his pleadings or سا ا‎ therefore, Shri Poddar 
need pat have appeared in evidence. We uphold this part of the award 
as well. 


Lastly, it was contended, that it is a case of victimization and unfair 
discremination due to trade Union activities of the appellant, as imme- 
diately after the formation of the Union the Secretary was discharged and 
then the appellant, as the office of the Union is undoubtedly in the appel- 
lant’s house and others who have exceeded the aforesaid age of super- 
annuation are still in the service of the Company. The Secretary’s age was 
68. The appellant had exceeded 55. It is true that there are others still 
in service who are over 55. The Company’s reply is that it is retiring 
them as permitted by the requirements of the business. Those others are 
৪190 in key positions. All work cannot be disturbed at once. These expla- 
nations are reasonable. There is no force in this contention as well. 


ORDER. 
The appeal is dismissed. No order as to costs. 


A. DAS GUPTA, 
President. 


S. B. SINGH, 
Member. 


The 19th May 6. 


[Parr 1۸ 


Part IA] THE CALCUITA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 303 


হা দস”??? 
IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF 
INDIA, CALCUTTA 


Appeal No. Cal-234 of 1955 


The Calcutta Clinical Research Association Mazdoor Union, 
Calcutta ন্‌ ٦ 7 .ےم‎ Appellants, 


000٤9 


Messrs. Calcutta Clinical Research Association, 1+49. 
Calcutta or oe 0 ... Respondents. 


In the matter of an appeal against the award of Shri J. N, Moitra, Judge, 
Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, made on 2nd September 1955, in 
respect of an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 7th May 1956. 


PRESEN’: 


Sarr A. DAS GUPTA, President. 
Suri 5. B. SINGH, Member. 


Appearances: 


For the Appellants: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharjee. 
For the Respondents: Shri S. B. Roy, Law Officer. 


State : West Bengal. 
Industry : Miscellaneous. 


DECISION 


This appeal is directed against an award of the Third Industrial 
Tribunal, West Bengal, dated 2nd September 1955, and published in the’ 
£ andl Gazette, dated September 29, 1955. The only issue referred to the 

ribunal was :— 


“Introduction of grades and scales.’’ 


In view of the precarious financial condition of the Company and the 
nature of the Industry, the learned Adjudicator did not consider proper 
to introduce grades cnd scales, but in view of the fact that bonus paid in 
the past had ceased and the rate of Puja bonus had been reduced since the 
award of Shri Palit, he awarded a general increment of Rs. 3 per month 
in the basic pay of all the 51 workmen concerned with this dispule. Being 
disatisfied with the award the workmen have preferred this appeal. Only 
two grounds have been taken in the Memorandum of grounds of appeal: 


(1) That the learned Judge erred in disallowing retrospective effect 
in respect of increments. 


(2) He did not suggest any grade or scale. 


The Company,*as its name suggests, manufactures medicinal preparations 
and injections which are very vital for all common people. Its invested 
capital is less than 1.50 lakhs. It runs on a small scale. Since 1948-49, it 
paid dividend at 6 per cent. in the first {wo years, none in 1950-51 and 
1954-55 and 3 per cent. between in 1951-52, 1952-53, 1953-64. It paid 
bonus amounting to Rs. 14,752 in 1948-49, none in the following three 
years and a little over Rs. 3,000 in each of the last three years ending 
with 1954-55. Its balance sheet, profit and loss account are duly audited. 
Tt is clear that its financial conditioa is not very sound. There is a reason 
for it. During war-time, being afraid of bombing it opened branches out- 
side which had to be closed down resulting in loss to the Company. 


The workmen’s contention is that it is paying high salaries, commis- 
sion and bonus to its high paid employees at top men. But the work 1s of 
such a technical nature that only highly skilled persons can do substantial 
work in it. Other workmen can shy work according to their directions. 
It is, therefore, not surprising that high emoluments are paid to its to 
employees. It is further urged that some of the employees are employe 
unnecessarily, e.g.,, a Law Officr in such ao small concern and some of the 
highly paid employees are relatives of the Directors of the Company. 
There is no such evidence on record. We reject this contention. 


When once it is established that financial position of the Company is 
not sound, the learned Adjudicator was fully justified in refusing to fix 
grades and time-scale. Besides this grades can be fixed when categories of 
workmen can be fairly ascertained. That may be possible only in those 
industries which are well established, the number of which are not many. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 6 


In an industry like the present one, this is not possible and wages can be 
fixed only having regurd to efficiency and experience of the workers. No 
doubt some of the 51 workmen are of the commonly known categories, e.g., 
sweeper, typist clerk, durwan, etc., ete. Annexure A to the Company's writteu 
statement is a list of ull the 51 workmen. It indicates the occupation of 
each and payments made to each of them. It was conceded on behalf of 
the appellants that the employees whose basic pay exceeds Rs. 150 are not 
concerned in this appeal. We have examined the basic wage and dearness 
allowance of each of these employees. We think that in view of the 
financial condition of the Company the wages of none except three are 
below the minimum and if we add Rs. 3 as awarded by the Tribunal, that 
will be quite fair in view of the financial condition of the concern. The 
existing wage of none of the employees is below Rs. 30 and now it has 
pene Rs. 33 for the lowest paid workmen. The three employees are as 
ollows : 


(1) Mir Errudat Hossain, duftary and despatch clerk. His existing 
basic pay Rs. 45 and dearness allowance Rs. 30. We fix his basic pay at 
Rs. 55, because a duftary’s job is somewhat inferior to that of a werk 


(2) D. Bose, clerk, gets Rs. 30 basic wage. No clerk in Calcutta gets 
less than Rs. 60 as basic wage. The Company must pay the minimum basic 
wage at least. Similarly is the case of (3) K. Chatterjee, a despatch clerk 


[Part TA 


| a ES লেকে aS aaa SS aA a Tp Sa A ت۔۔۔۔۔بسصج ےس ..ْ ‌..۔۔ہ.].ں.ںں تپ ہ‌ب‎ 


whose basic pay is Rs. 39. We fix the basic pay of these two clerks at 


Rs. 60 


The wage of all the other employees is satisfactory ufter addition of 


Rs. 3 as awarded by the learned Adjudicator. 


The increase of Rs. 3 shall 


not apply to the case of the above three persons. 


Regarding the اود سان‎ for giving restrospective effect to the award, we 


think the learned Tri 


unal rightly exercised its discretion in refusing to 


ive restrospective effect in view of the financial condition of the concern. 


٦ 


Errudat Hossain shall be Rs. 55, 


he appeal is allowed only to the extent that the basic wage of Shri 
of Shri D. Bose Rs. 60 and Shri 


K. Chatterjee Rs. 60, from the date the award of the learned Adjudicator 
became enforceable. The Company to pay Rs. 15 costs of the appeal to the 


appellants. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE 
DIVISION). 


New Delhi, the 25th June 1956. 
NOTIFICATIONS 


INCOME-TAX JSSTABLISHMENTS 
& ۳ . এ 


No. 92.—Shri 9. V. Deva, Income-tax Officer, 
Class I, Grade I (West Bengal), has been appoint- 
ed to officiate as Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, with effect from the afternoon of 
1161) May 1956 and until further orders. He took 
over charge as Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, “D’’ Range, Calcutta, with effect 
from the same date, relieving Shri K. Jagan- 
nathan, Appellate Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, ‘‘G’’ Range, Calcutta, of the addi- 
tional charge. 


K. N. MUKHERJEE, Under Secy. 


a a: 


New Delhi, the 20th June 1956. 


No. 66.~—In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule 
(1) of rute 2 of the Appellate Tribunal Rules, 
1946. the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri Jagannathan, Income-tax 

cer, as Authorised Representative from the 
18th June 1956 to appear, plead and act for any 
Income-tax authority who is a party to any pro- 


ceedings before the Income-tax Appellate 
Tribunal, 


P. N, DAS GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


A. DAS GUPTA, 
President. 


S. B. SINGH, 


Member. 


New Delhi, the 27th June 1956 


HEANQUARTERS ESTABLISHMENT 


No. 62.—Shri N. 5. Jagannathan, Income-tax 
Officer, Class II, Calcutta, is posted as Junior 
Authorised Representative attached to the Income- 
tax Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta, with effect 


from the 18th June 1956, forenoon, and until 
further orders. 
No. 63.—Shri H. P. Mukherjee, Income-tax 


Officer, relinquished, charge of the post of Junior 
Authorised Representative, Income-tax Appellate 
Tribunal, Calcutta, on the forenoon of 18th June 


1956. 
SAROOP SINGH, Under Secy. 


تھ مس یں 


New Delhi, the 218 June 1956 
CORRIGENDUM 


No. 87.—In this Ministry’s notification No. 60- 
Income-tax Establishments, dated the llth May 
1956, against S. Nos. ** and 48 for the 
words * * * and ‘Central (Calcutta)’”’ the follow- 
ing shall be substituted, respectively, viz.:— 
* * ٭‎ and ‘West Bengal’. 


New Delhi, the 5th July 1956. 


No. 107.—On transfer from Delhi, Shri S. K. 
Ganguli has been posted ag Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Range I, Calcutta, 
with effect from the 15th June 1956 relieving Shr 
S. N. Roy, Inspecting Assistant Commissioner 0 
Income-tax, Range VI, Calcutta, of the ৪0017 
tional charge. 


K. N. MUKHERJEE, Under ٥۶۰ 


Registerea No. C207 


COVERNMENT COLLECE OF ART AND 36. 
CRAFT 

Results of the Diploma Examination held in 38. 

April/May, 1956. رر‎ 


Calrutta 0 ri 


پا 


۲ 117۷ 


THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


Calcutta, the 10th July 1956 


The following are the names of succeasiul 


candidates arranged m order of merit: 


82, 
83. 


1 
Name of student. Class. 2. 
FINE ART DEPARTMENT 3. 
Kanak Mukherji یں‎ এ sg 
Bimal Kumar Kar oe | 2 
Satyendra Nath Poddar I 7. 
Santosh Kumari Rohatgi eee | 1 
Sakti Prasad Roy Burman দা! 9. 
Dipali Chanda +0 | 10. 
Nimai Ch. Das “ig EE ; 
Sunil Kr. Nandy 02111 2 
Bijoy Kumar Roy ee uk 13. 
Kalyan Kumar Bose . II ] 4. 
Apan Kumar Bandopadhya TI ۱ 
15. 
Sukumar Das گا ہی‎ 16 
Bhotoo Pradhan +1018 ۱ 
Bindu Bhusan Paul ا ت‎ 8 
Ranadhir Dhali گلا ےی‎ 19. 
Gopal Sanyal ge. cub 20. 
Abdul Kadir ... ا‎ 
Robindra Nath Chatterjee a শা 2. 
Jitendra Nath Das « 2 
Santosh Kumar Roy Chowdhury .., II 9 রি 
Biswanath Das ae OF. 
Samir Rai Choudhuri ae 0 28 
Sudhir Kumar Sarkar ar oe 2. 
Cassim Mahpara . 1 ; 
Gurudas Roy 207 
Atindra Nath Mitra mee 7 
Mohit Kumar Singha ৪ 1۰. 
Pradyot Kumar Roy ae one 2. 
Gokul Kishore Roy ee J. 
Bimal Ch, Sinha 11 4. 
Bikash Sen Gupta ٦ 5. 
Kamal Rani Guha ৪ آ3‎ 6. 
Mintu Dutta w «CTT ۰ 
Amalendu Chakraborty ~y If 8. 
Madhuri Das jo, Jif 9 


Basanti Dutta Gupta 
Amal Krishna Dastider 
Jogesh Ch. Mitra 
Sunanda Guha Niyogi 


APPLIED ART DEPARTMENT 


Pratap Chandra Deb 
Ganesh Chandra Haloi 
Sankar Nandy 

Pabitra Kumar Roy 

Asit Kr. Mukherjee 
Ranjit Kr. Nandan 

Samir Sarkar 

Bimal Kr. Sen Gupta 
Animesh Sen Gupta 
Nitin Sarkar 

Jatinath Saha 

Niranjan Taratfdar 
Kantimoy Roy 

Samir Kumar Chakravarty 
Asim Kumar Das 

Priya Gopal Banik 
Animesh Kumar Sen Gupta 
Dilip Kumar Ganguly 
Sudhendu Ganguli 
Krishna Ranjan Barma 
Bireswar Banerjee 

Sushil Kr. Sarkar 
Shyamal Sen 

Sudhindra Mohan Banerjee 
Chitra Datta 

Gopi Mohan Dhara 


Monoranjan Das 


INDIAN PAINTING DEPARTMENT 


Rikash Chandra Das 

Ila Roy Chowdhury 
Gour Gopal Banerjee 
Geeta Das Lala 

Arati Roy 

Satyendra Nath Ganguly 
Pranab Mukerji 


Hriday Ranjan Bhattacharya 


Niranjan Karmakar 


444 


SCULPTURE AND MODELLING 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 
সস one 


1. Sarbari Roy Chowdhury 


2, Madhab Chandra Bhattacharjee 


8 Bipin Behari Goswami 


4, Vishwa Raj Mehra 


5. Uma Siddhanta 


CRAFT DEPARTMENT 


1. Anita Gupta 


কিস 


TEACHERSHIP (FINE ART) 


Shibendra Narayan Banerjee 
2. Gour Gopal Banerji 


Results of the Craft Certificate Examination held 


in April/May 1956 


The following are the names of the successful 


candidates arranged in order of merit: 


ee سر‎ 


Name of the student. 


Division. 


POTTERY AND MOULDING - 


Minati Roy 
Mukul Ghosh 
Anjali Biswas 


Ashim K. Ghosh 


Soci ox 


WOOD WORK 


Haran Chandra Ghose 
Krishna Ghoshal 
Sombhu Ch. Nandy 


1 1. 
I 2. 
1 3. 
1 4. 
11 B. 

6. 
I 8. 
10. 
II 11. 
11 
13. 
]. 
2. 
4. 
B. 
1 
II 1. 
II 2. 
I 3. 
4. 
I 6. 
I 
I 


Kalyani Chakravorty 


Sarbani Ghose 
Nandita Sen 
Ina Dutta 


Amarendra lal Chowdhury 


[4810 Chakravorty 
Dattatray V. Morey 
Santi Nag Das 
Ashima Das Gupta 
Gita Basu 

Basanti Sen Gupta 
Bulu Sen 
Arundhati Bhaduri 


WEAVING 


Banalata Banerji 
Monica Shome 
Ranjita Dutta 
Bandana Roy 
Madhu Suden Nag 


LEATHER WORK 


Sabita Mukherjee 


Reba Roy Chowdhury 


Jharna Roy 
Minakshi Roy 
Sipra Roy 
Bhanu Mehta 


[Parr Ip 


BATIK, PRINTING AND DYEING 


রা 


I 

11 
گلا جت 
پ1 ৮৪৮:‏ 


৪. SEN, Principal (Offg.). 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL. 
NOTICE. 
Calcutta, the 16th July 1956. 


Errata regarding the results of the School Final Bramination, 1952, held by the Board of Secondary Education, West Bengal, aa published 


in the Calcutta Gazette of the 21st May 1953. 


Page. 


145 
146 
145 


146 
152 
160 
187 


264 
268 


Roll No, 


Barrack P-19 as 


Barui-50 


Barui 67-93 (Name of the School) 


Barui 79 ٠ 


Bhat-192 ee 


Bhow K-68 ee 


Cal J-271 
Cal X 61 
Hug-193 
Hug FP-10 
Naba-239 
Nai 238 
Ser-101 
Tam-69 


০ 


For (incorrect). Read (correct). 
1-12-84 oe 1-9-36 
» Jyotindra....... ٠ .ےے‎ Jyotirindra,....... 
Chandanpukur Durgapur K. 0. Durgapur K. C. High School. 
High School. 
ree Naskar ৪০652 
11 Feb. 36 21 Nov. 37 
2-0-8 ےے‎ 6-06 
بئ““‎ Chandra...... co seeees 
0-8 90-8-۰. 
9 Jany. 36 »» 12 Sept. 37 
. Namita Ray -« Namite Ray (Mrs. Basu) 
27-11-33 22-3-36 
Paltan...... Prabir 
8-10-38 27-7 
জজ Chandra...... oe فا ووق‎ 


By order of the Administrator, 
20, 7. RAYCHAUDHURI, 


Part 


IB} 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 28, 1986 


cr ্্ি 
BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL. 


NOTICE. 


Calcutta, the 16th July 1956. 


446 


Errata regarding the reaulte of the School Pinal Rzamination, 1953, held by the Board of Secondary Education, West Bengal, as published 


in the Caloutta Gazette of the 20th May 1964. 


Page. 


132 
140 
140 
142 


142 


86] 
0১ 
176 
178 


189 


208 
213 
214 
221 


226 


Roll No. 


Agar 142 
Bank 133 
Bank 147 
Bank 839 


Bank 656-673 


Basir 511 
Bhow Q-40 
Bhow FK 111 
Bhow FR-46 
Cal B-159 
Cal D-4 

Cal PE-181 
Cal N-249 
Cal R-68 
Cal R-183 
Cal V-06 
Cal ZA-152 
Cal 56 
Cal ZM-68 
Cal ZM-247 
Cal FE-118 


Cal F 68 


- গজ. Dar-23 


234 
235 
239 
248 
255 
258 
263 
264 
2760 
279 


286 


Diam-39 
Diam -364 
Garia-30 
Hug FP-55 
Kamar 187 
Kandi P-9 
Kri 315 
Kri 393 
Naba F-43 
Ram 172 


Ser 3 


(Name of tho School) 


For (incorrect), 


(No dato of birth) নী 
(No date of birth) 7 
Anadinath....,... ৮৪ 
22 Feb. 36 ws 


Dhulia Ramkumar Mrinmoyee 


Read (correct). 


17 Jany. 35 


31 Deo. 35 


22 Feb 38 


Dhulai Ramkumar Mrinmoyee 


Vidyamandir, Vidyamandir, 

(No date of birth) -- 6 Jany. 36 

10 Mar. 36 -» 20 Nov. 36 

Rama Mukherjoo .. Rama Mukherjeo (Mrs. Datta) 
20 Apr. 36 * ** 6 May 38 

12 Mar, 5 ‘4. 12 Mar, 37 

8 Oct. 35 i -- 8 Oct. 36 

21 Nov. 32 -« 21 Nov. 33 

11 Feb. 35 : -- 380 Dec. 35 

29 Feb. 35 .. 2 Fob. 35 

27 Dec. 40 *৬ 28 Aug. 37 

Ranjit........ es Ranajit......,. 

5 Sep. 33 .. 6& Sop. 36 

2 Jany. 37 ee 1 Jany. 40 

Tripty...seoss .ےہ‎ Samar........ 

8 May 32 .. 8 May. 36 

Anima Khan -» Amina Khan 

Geeta. . ১,০০১, ee Gites «৯ ০.০ ০.৬. 

19 May 36 .. 6 Jany. 39 

29 Fob. 39 .. 1 Mar. 39 
Domureshwar.. sss... + wukamal,.... ۱ 
Kamala Kanti,,...... .. Kamala Kanta........ 
4 Mar. 1 ১০ 1 May. 35 
10 Feb, 35 .ےم‎ 26 Oct. 37 
1 Nov. 26 .. 1 Nov. 1906 
23 Jany. 38 -. 23 Jany. 35 
1 July 36 -» 1 Juno 38 
Puspa Guhe -» Pushpa Guha (Mra, Majumdar), 
20 May 36 ** 16 May 36 
Kananbala Bhakta »» Kenanbala Bhakta (Mra. Daa), 

By Ordor of the Administrator, 


D. <۰ RAYCHAUDHURI, 
60۰ 


446 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 {Parr Ik 
a 
BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENQAL. 
NOTICE. 


Caloutta, the 16th July 1956. 


Errata regarding the results of the School Final Examination, 1954, held by the Board of Secondary Hducation, West Bengal, as published 
in the Calcutta Gazette of the 8rd March 1955. 


Page. Roll No. For (inoorrect). Read (correct). 
72 Belon 22 ee ms - .مے‎ 1 Feb. 36 -. 1 Feb. 8 
12 Belon 1 7 রি 7 .. 2 May 7 .. 12 May 7 
74 Rang 656 oe oe eve »০ 8 Deo. 35 -- 18 Deo. 35 
74 Rang P-21 ee ee ee .ےہ‎ Charanji........ .» COharanjit........ 
74 Rang 1 ee ee ee ee Nagooram........ -. Nagooran.....,.. 
78 Coo FP-8 i we ee eo. Sebita ........ .» Sobika..... ase 
84 Mal 316 oe ee as -- 80 Nov, 35 -. 25 Nov. 37 
86 Bhag 78 ৪৬ ee ee ہج‎ eo + eee. Bhattacharjee 
91 Cont 557 = ee os = 28 Feb. 38 .ےے‎ 23 Feb. 8 
94 Kharag 69 ae * ০ oe ee 3 Apr. 7 -» 19 Apr. 87 
94 Kharag 166 es oe مم ہے لم‎ 16 Jany. 40 .. 16 June 0 
96 Tam-159 ee ee ee -» Amalendu...... -- Amalendra........ 
98 Tam-628 ee ee -+ ےہ‎ wees AGO. wanes os ০০৯০০০05800 ০ ৭ ০, 
100 Birb 45 we oe 2° -. 20 Mar, 34 -» 4 Deo. 38 
111 Bur 445 we es es .ےے‎ Kirti...... -» Kiriti........ 
111 Bur 602 ee ee ee -- 16 Jany. 86 »* 16 June 36 
112 Bur 801 as ee ee .ےے‎ 1 Deo. 34 «» 1 Deo. 35 
114 Bur FP-38 7 a a" -- Aparna Mandal -- Aparna Mandal (Mrs, Ghosh). 
114 Bur P-203 ৯৬ ×9 টিকে oe eee. Second os veces Lhird 
114 Bur P-204 ee ee 7 oo ০০০০০ হাতে 1. 
114 Bur P-264 +s oe -7 .. Sashadhar,...... .. Madhusudan,......, 
115 Asan-96 “x ০. -- 28 Nov, 36 -. 20 Nov. 36 
116 Asan F-5 ae oe ৯৬ .ے بے 59ا13 مم ٴ‎ Bindu........ 
117 Asan ۵8 oe 5 ৬ oe ہے‎ evans ۔افظط‎ oe coves ROY 
117 Asan FP-22 on 7 ৬ -. Usha Rani Paul .. Usha Rani Paul (Mrs. Kar). 
118 Kul FP-8 ہے مھہ‎ এও 7 . 22 Feb. 5 .ے‎ 22 Feb. 36 
118 Mem 66-68 (Name of the School) ০৪ .ہے‎ Satgachi..... ৪ ৪৭ *০ Satgachia........ 
118 Mem-134 ٠ ee ee .ےم‎ 10 Jany. 38 -- 10 Jany, 8 
118 Mem-150 ہے‎ = re «: 31 June 38 .. 30 June 38 
1188198৯88৮ রর » 18 July 38 .. 18 July 6 
125 Kat P-30 ٠ oe ee os Kamal.......% -» Kamala........ 
125 Kat P-46 ee ee ee -» 16 Feb, 38 1 Feb. 38 
126 Nai 118 s 7 ০০08261808০ ص......‎ .. Rathish........ 
130 Bank 586-599 (Name of the School) ** .. Dhulia....... ‘ »« Dhulai........ 
131 Bank 977 ae oe ae -» 81 Apr. 37. .. 80 Apr. 7 
138 Bishnu 79 و‎ nee 7 -. 31 Nov. 84 -- 90 Nov. 34 
135 Mid 277 ১৮ oe 5০ .. 6 May 40 .ےم‎ 15 Nov. 39 
138 Aram 146 5০ ee ٠ oe ০০৯০০ ০0 مہ‎ ০০০০০০99000 
139 Basir 29 oe ৮৪ ae ** | July. 33. .. 7 Jany. 37 
141 Basir 6 = aa 7 .» Chhabi Mitra «+ Obhabi Mitra (Mra. Basu). 
142 Kri-3 ae ক oe .ے.‎ Ranjit......+. .. Ranajit........ 
1483 Kri 169 ks ৪ om .. Utpal Kumar Sen .» Utpal Sen 


144 Kri 366 ee oe wi 7 وا‎ Kanti Paramanik, 30 Oot. Tapan Kanti Pramanik, 30 Oct. 


PART IB] 
—— See ————————————————————— ےکس‎ 


+ 


Pago. 


148 


180 


184 


195 


197 
202 


223 
225 


227 


Roll No. 


Rana 239 
Rana 289 
Rana 300 
Rana F-41 
Santi 128 
Bhat 143 
Bhat 148 
Bhate275 
Chander F-75 
Taki-86 
Sing-30 
Sing-204 

Sing P-23 
Sing P-29 
Harrack PB-90 
Sodo-247 
Hab-36 
Budgo 109 
Budge P-10 
Budge P-27 
Diam 339 
Kamar 130 
Imph 06 
Andul 22 
010-8 

How 393 
How B-84 
How PE-19 
How FA-51 
South B-38 
South B-148 
South 0-178 
South D-20 
South D-32 
South D.224 
South G-74 
South H-168 
South H-191 
South R-7 
South PV-10 
South W-126 
South ZA-129 
South FA-23 
South FA-66 
South 89 
Cent FA-9 
Cent FK-66 
North FB-11 
North ۵٤ 
North FPH-50 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


For (incorrect). 


Mani Mohon Das, 31 Sept. 36 


1 Jany. 36 


Ranjit......0. 
5 Juny. 39 


Sham Sundar........ 


evs. Chandra 
(No date of birth) 
16 Jany. 35. 

11 Juno 39 
Mohan........ 


16 Jany. 36 

28 Deo. 42 
Gauri....-.e- 
Pathiok....... 
Mallque 
Sitangusi......+. 


Harasanker......30 May 36... 


Chandranjit Sing 
Rahaman.......> 


Gothabehari........ 


(No date of birth) 
20 Oct. 36 

1 Sept. 34 
Astami....c.es, 
Samarajit........ 
6 Jany. 09 

25 Jany. 36 

81 Nov. 39 
Samarajit........ 
(No date of birth) 
80 June 37. 


109৮0010090 ০ * * ৯ ৯০ ৪৪ 


1 July 84 
16 Apr. 36 
29 Dec. 37 
80 Deo. 34 
Ira Sen 

1 Mar. 38 


41888508808 * « * ৬ ০০৯5 


» ৪ ০ ৯ ৯5015৯11108 
25 Oct. 88 
ooeee Agrawal 
& Apr. 6 
Anima‘Sardar 


ee 


Read (correct), 


447 


Mani Mohan Das, 21 Sept. 36. 


11 Jany. 36 
Ranjib........ 
5 Jany. 99. 


Shyam Sundar...... ae 


Ambika...... ٤ 


Anita Gupta (Mrs. Sengupta) 


.»+..-Chanda 
12 Feb. 39 

1 May. 37 

11 Jany. 39 


ose+.-Malequo. 
Sitangsu........ 


Harasankar....13 May 36. 


Chandrajit Singh 
Rahman. 


Gosthabehari...«.... 


28 Nov. 37 

20 Oot. 37 

18 Sept. 37 
Manju...-ese- 
بے ا088 دھ8‎ 
5 Feb. 39 
Sukhendu......+. 
26 Jany. 37 

22 Jany. 39 


2 Feb. 34 
2 Apr. 39 


Ramaprosad.....-> 


1 July 39 

18 Apr. 36 

29 Jany. 39 
80 Deo. 39 
Ina Sen. 

1 Mar. 39 
Alaknanda.....++. 
০ * ees» Mullick. 
25 Oct. 39 
oss.» Agrwal 
15 Apr. 35 


Anima Sardar (Mrs. Das) 


448 


252 


252 


253 
256 
259 
263 
265 
265 


Roil No. 


North A-102 
North G-237 
North H-90 
North M-82 
North Q-11 
North Q-2386 
North R-150 


North R-150 


North 8-245 
North T-14 
North PT-73 
Cent B-358 
Cent 7 
Cent G-119 
Cent G-217 
Cent PG-55 
Cent 06 
Cent H-112 
Cent J-37 
Cent PJ-8 
Cent PJ-10 
Oent L-64 
Cent 09 
Cent PL-67 
Cent M-19 
Cent M-298 
Cent PM-2 
Cent Q-211 
Cent V-164 
Barisa 118 
Barisa 0 


South 2910-55 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


ee ee 
ee ee 
ee ee 
ریب مھ‎ 
ees e 
se رف‎ 
ee ee 
oo ee 
=~ ee 
رص رم‎ 
eo oe 
ae oe 
ee ee 
نی‎ ove 
on کچھ‎ 
یسو‎ ee 
ee ee 
ee ee 
ee ee 
৬৬ ee 
ee ۰ ee 
ee ee 
ee ee 
e ae 
ee ee 
eo ee 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL. 


For (incorrect). 


17 Jany. 38 
Ranendra......e- 
» ৬৯০০৯৬৪16১৬, wos ee 
٠.٠٠٠٠ Khotry 

Mritunjoy.....++. 


20 Jany. 86 
(Blank) 


160 Asbutosh Basak 12 Jany. 
Thi 


Radheysham......ce 
28 Juno ۰ 
Sukhesh. . 
28 Apr. 39 , 
10 Sept. 48 

1 Aug. 82 


...٠..[38 0۸ 
1 Aug. 36. 
Athor, بعد‎ 
15 Aug. 35. 
০৮ ০ ০০ Jilan 

» ৯ ৯ 5.০ ০]ব 0000000855০ ০০০ 
Magbul.....+.- 

» ৯ ০ ০১১৪] Sharma 
Ranjit.......- 

০ ৯০০ ৯ ০৩088 

Third. 

» ৪০ ee  DUKAK, 8ٹ‎ 

14 Sep. 35 

8 July 409 , 

(No date of birth) 

30 Sep. 34 ,. 


Malayendra......++ 


NOTICE. 
Calcutta, the 16th July 1956. 


[Parr IB 


Read (correct). 


28 Sep. 35 
Ramondra......2.0s 
* ৬ ৭ ০০০]38010%, ১, ১১, 


Mrityunjoy.... 
20 June 36 


160 Ashutosh Basak, 12 Jany 
38, Third. 


(whole line to be deleted). 


oepa 


Radheyshyam........ 
28 June 39 
Sukesh........ 

28 Apr. 37 

10 Sep. 38 

1 Aug. 37 

৩ ০ ০ ০ Barman 

1 Aug. 26 

Ather... 
14 Apr. 38 
০০ ০» Jilani 


০০ ৯ ০ খু 0100000918০ بے‎ 
Magqbul........ 

৭ ০ ৯ ০৯০0 Sharma 
Ranajit.....+0+ 
০০০০৯০32892 
Second 

» ৪ ৪ ও 5 513000765৭০ ৯০০ 
6,990. 35 

7 Jany. 37 

4 Sep. 38 

30 Sep. 36 


10518928000 ০ ০ * * ০০০০ 
By ordor of the Administrator, 


19. P, RAYCHAUDHOURI, 
Secretary. 


Errata regarding the results of the School Final Examination (Compartmental) held in the month of September 1954 by the Board f 
Secondary Education, West Bengal, as published tn the Calcutta Gazette of the 2nd June 1965. 


Page. 
446 
447 
449 


Roll No. 


Cent C (Comp) 361 
Kharg (Comp) 37 


North A(Comp) 102 oe 


Bili (Comp) 124 
Cent B (Comp) 121 


For (incorrect). 
24 Sep. 80 
29 Feb. 8 
৯ ৩ ৩ ০ ০ Chander 
* ৯৮ ০০১00888018, 
70760010005 ءء٠‎ 
Mira Guha Burman 


৬৬ 


Read (correct). 
24 Sep. 96, 
1 Mar. 38. 
৮০০০০০0০500 
oeoe-» Mundra. 
Mrityunjoy...-sse. 
Mira Guha Burman (Mra. Paul) 


By order of the Administrator, 


D. ۶. RAYCHAUDHUBRI, 
xe Seoretary. 


past IB] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 449 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL. 
NOTICE. 
Caloutta, the 16th July 1956. 


Errata regarding the results of the Special School Final Hxamination held in the month of December 1054, by the Board of Secondary 
Education, West Bengal, as published in the Caloutta Gazette of the 22nd September 1955. 


Page. Roll No. For (incorrect). Read (correct). 
544 Jal P(SP) 2 নি -۰ ও .. (Blank) .. Jal P(SP) 2 Samarendra Prasad 
Biswas, 9 Nov. 33, Third. 
666 Kat (SP) 96 7 ce a .. Haradhon Sadhu -» Haradhon Garai. 
561 Ser FP(SP) 17 .. জা .. Chhaya Ganguly ». Chhaya Gangul 
(Mrs. Chakraborty). 
562 Baras (SP)-124 .. ৪৬ ٠ 8 Jany. 42 »৯ 6 Mar. 37 
664 Ber F(SP) 11 : - .ے‎ 16 Nov. 86 -» 15 Nov. 87 
567 Cent (SP) 24 7 a 5৪ ےے‎ oe... Saha ১০. eee ANA. 
692 Cent (SP) D-38 .. és a .. Chittananda Paul »» Chittaranjan Paul. 
595 Cent FP(SP)B8 .. ee & & .. 28 Feb. 88 .. 6 Jany. 37 
598 North P(SP) A-74.. as on -» 26 Jany. 37 .. 26 Jany. 28. 
By order of the Administrator, 
D. ۶۰ RAYCHAUDHURI, 


Secretary. 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL 


NOTICE. 
Caloutta, the 16th July, 6۰, 


Errata regarding the resulta of the School Final Examination, 1955, held by the Board of Secondary Kducation, West Bengal, as 
published in the Caloutta Gazette of the 17th May, 1966. 


Page. Roll No. For (incorrect). Read (correct). 
285 Rani 57 “a 7 রর -» 80 June 43 -. 10 May 38 
316 North D-192  :, os i ** 30 Nov. 39 -. 22 Aug. 37 
331 Cent K-94 we - es -. 29 Aug. 35 .. 26 Aug. 40 
By order of the Administrator, 


D. P. RAYCHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


Registered No. C207 


sash. 


; 


aS 
৬ 


4 


eee 
woe ص0‎  -0 


۷818 (68211 


۰ 
» ۔‎ oe 
৬ 


سح 


: THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1956 


PART II—Advertisements, Notices 
Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, 
‘‘Caicutta Cazette’® (Part 10). 
1, Manusoripte sheuld be properly edited and complete in iteeif. 
2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper, The name of the signatory should be type 


Notices, etc., in the 


written below the signature. 


$. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of ‘‘Calcutta Gazette’’ shall be received by Pubiloation 
Sales OMce at New Seoretariat Bulldings, 1 Hastings Street, Caloutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at Head Office 


at ۸۱۵٣٣۵ up to 12 noon on Monday. 


6. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the Manuscripts. 


5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, 
WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


for delay in publication ef any advertisement due to the non-observance 61 the 


(PUBLICATION BRANCH), 
The Press shall not be held responsible 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION 


in the matter of Companies Act, | of 1956, 
And 
Of Aeronautical Services, Ltd. 


NOTICE is hereby given that on the 9th day of July 
1956 a petition has been presented to the abovenamed 
Court for an order confirming the alteration of the provi- 
sions of the Memorandum of Association with respect to 
the objects of the abovenamed وہہ پت‎ resolved on by a 
ا‎ resolution passed at an Extraordinary Cencral 
না held on the 10th day of May 1966 in the following 

rms: 


“Resolved that the Memorandum of Association of tho 
Company be amended to include the following as (1)(#) in 
the Memorandum: 


To manufacture, repair, overhaul, recondition, modify, 
reclass and deal in internal combustion engines of 
all types, jet engines, turbines, propellers, their 
components and accessories, motor boats, launches 
motor cycles, autocycles, scooters, automobiles and 
other vessels wnd vehicles driven hy electricity or 
mechanical or atomic power, small tools including 
tools driven by electric power, hand tools, power 
driven pumps, and generally to carry on the trade 
or business of engineers, founders, 
machinists and manufacturers.’’ 


00,108 said petition will be heard by His Lordship the 
07019 Mr. ধরা P. B. 11015778101 taking Company 
es et the Court House, Calcutta, on Monday, the 
0 h day of August 1956 and any person interested in the 
Wie as whether as creditor or as shareholder or other- 
thee and desirous of opposing the making of an order for 
the ‘onfirmation of the said alteration should appear at 
Ad, time of the hearing in person or by his Attorney or 
re for the purpose and a copy of the said petition 
furnished to any such person requiring the same 


by ও undersigned on payment of the prescribed charges 
or the same, 


Dated the 16th day of July 1966. 


PRATAP CHANDRA CHUNDER, 
Attorney for the Company abovenamed. 


8 Old Pont Office Street, Calcutta. 
(589—1) 


amitha,. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, IN 
INSOLVENCY 


NOTICE OF ADJUDICATION ORDER NO. 19 OF 1956. 


ite. Kashinath Paul, service holder, at present residing at 
No. 16/23, Surendra Banerjee Road, and lately resi 
at No. 20/4, Surendra Banerjee Road in the town o 
Calcutta and working for gain at No. ঢা, 35/36, New 
Market in Calcutta, aforesaid, ex parte the debtor. 


Ajit Kumar De, debtor’s solicitor. 


ON the 5th day of July 1956, an order was made by the 
High Court at Calcutta, in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
wijnudying the abovenamed as an insolvent, 


Note.—All debts due to the estate should be paid to me. 


M. M. CHAKRABARTY, Official Assignee. 
Dated this 20th day of July 1956. 


IN THE MATTER OF INDUSTRIAL AND PROVIDENT 
INSURANCE (INDIA) LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION.) 


MEETING of the Creditors and Contributories of the 
abovenamed Company will be held at the office of the under- 
signed at No, 6, Council House Street, Calcutta, on 
Friday, the 24th August 1956, at 1 p.m., to discuss the 
accounts and dealings in the winding up proceedings. 


35. M. CHAKRABARTY, 
Official Receiver, High Court, 
Officia] Liquidator. 


IN THE MATTER OF WORKERS’ PROVIDENT 
INSURANCE LTD. (IN LIQUIDATION.) 


MEETING of the Creditors and Contributories of the 
nhovenamed Society will be held at the office of the under- 
ugned at No. 6, Council House Street, Calcutta, on 
riday, the 24th August 1956, at 3 p.m., to discuss the 
accounts and dealings in the winding up proceedings. 


M. M. CHAKRABARTY 
Official Receiver, High Court, 
Official Liquidator. 


3338 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 20 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 
posts from Indian citizens and persons muigr from 
Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in India 
or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 
French possessions in India. Upper age-lmits, relaxable 
by five years tor Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
candidates and up to 45 سسو‎ for displaced pereons from 
Pakiston and non-hberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 
No relaxation for others, save m exceptional cases and 
will in no case be relaxed beyond three years Particulars 
and application forms from Secretary, Umon Public Service 
Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. Requests for 
forms must specify name of post and should be accom- 
panied by selt-addressed unstamped envelope for each post 
at least of size 9" ×4“ indicating thereon name of post for 
which forms are required. Closing date for sige ما‎ of 
applications with treasury receipt or Crossed Indian Postal 
Order for Rs. 7-8 (Re. 1-14 for Scheduled Castes and 
Tribes), 18th August 1956 (let September 1956 for 
applicants from abroad). Commission may remit 
genuinely indigent and bone fide displaced persons’ fee. 
Separate application with separate fee required for each 
7৮ Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper if 
orm not available and deposit fee with local Indian 
Embassy. It required, candidates must appear for personal 
interview. 


1. One Research Investigator, Grade تا ما‎ the 
Directorate of Economics and Statistics, under the Ministry 
of Food and Agrioulture.—Post temporary but 10515 to 
continue and to be retained on permanent basis eventuality. 
Preference will be given to Scheduled Castes /Scheduled 
Tnbes candidates. Pay:—Rs. 250—10—300—15—450—25 / 
2500. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:—Below 30 years, Relaxable 
fer Government servants. Qualificatlons—Essential:— 
Second Class Honours or Master's Degree in Economics or 
Mathematics or Statistics or Commerce of recognised 
University, or equivalent. 


9. One Regional Assistant Commissioner for Soheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the region of Punjab, 
Pepsu, Uttar Pradesh, Dethi and Himachal Pradesh, under 
the Ministry of Home Affairs.—Post রি তন but hkely 
to continue indefinitely Scheduled Castes /Scheduled 
Tribes candidates preferred. Pay:—Rs. 600—40—1,000— 
1,000—1,050—1,050—1,100—1,100—1,150. Higher, initial 
pay to specially qualiied and experienced candidate. Age: 
—Below 35 years. Relaxable for Government servants and 
8০০18) workers. Qualifications—Essential:—(1) Degree of 
recognised University. (u) Adequate experience in promot- 
ing the welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, 
Backward Classes and ex-Crimial Tribes » with proot 
thereof. (ni) Intumate knowledge of the problems of 
Backward Classes (particularly Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Trmbes) mm Punjab, Pepsu, Uttar Pradesh 
Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. (1v) Working knowledge of 
Urdu, Hind: and Punjabi. 


8. One Hindi Transjator in the Ministry of External 
Affairs.—Post temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. 
Preference will be given to Scheduled Castes /Scheduled 
Tmbes candidates, Pay:—Rs. 250—10—300—15—450 
Free furmshed accommodation, foreign allowance and 
medical concessions, etc., will be admissible, in addition, 
dunng service abroad Higher imitial pay to specially 
quahhed and expenenced candidate Age:—Below 30 
years Qualifications—Essential:—(1) At least Second 
Ciass Master’s Degree in Hind: of recognised University. 
(u) Adequate knowledge of editing and proof-reading. 


4. Qne Assistant Anthropologist in the Department of 
Anthropology, Ministry of Education.—Post temporary but 
18515 to continue. Post reserved for Scheduled Castes | 
Bcheduled Tribes candidates, but if no such suitable candi- 
date available post treated as unreserved. Pay:— 
Rea. 275—25—500—30—650—E 9, ‘ Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:—ielow 45 years. Relaxable for Government servants. 
Qualifioations—Essential:—(1) At least Second Class 
Master’s Degree in Anthropology of recognised University, 
with Physical Anthropology as special subject. (28) 
Minimum of one year’s research experience صر‎ Physical 
Anthropology. Qualifications relaxable at Commussion’s 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 
Note:—The selected candidate must be able to bear the 
rigours of camp life among aboriginal tribes and possess 
ability to establish rapport with hostile people. 


5. One Sales Officer for Ordnance Factories Organisa- 
tion, Ministry of Defenos.—Post temporary but hkely to 
continue. Applications may be considered also for any 
likely vacancy im an analogous post of more or less the 
same grade Payi—Ra 1,000—50—1,400. Hagher imitial 
pay to spemally qualified and experienced candidate. Age: 
Between 35 and 45 years. Permanent Government 


[Parr I] 
۸ 


servants not eligible, as this post is non-pensionable 
Qualifications—Essential:—(1) Degree in Commerce 0 
Economics of recognised University (2) About five years’ 
expenence as Sales Expert in business house ہ٤‎ standing 
(12) Knowledge of Indian market conditions, preterably as 
applicable to sale of Scientific stores, leather goods and 
Engimeering products. Qualifications relaxable at Com- 
mission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise well. 
qualited 


6 Two Leoturers in Mechanical Engineering, College of 
Military Engineering, Kirkee, under the Ministry of 
Defence.—losts temporary but hkely to become perma 
nent. Appoimtment will be on contract for five years 
Pay:—Rs  275—25—500—E. b.—30—650—E B —30—8() 
The scale of pay 1s likely to be revised Higher muitial pay 
to specially qualihed and experienced candidates Agei— 

ow years Relaxable for Government servants, 
Qualifioations—Essentiali—(1) At least Second Class Degree 
im Mechanical Engincering or equivalent qualification (21) 
About three years’ practical experience including some 
teaching experience Qualihcations relaxable at Commuis- 
s10n’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise well- 
qualified, 


7. One Cost Aoocountant, Central Water and Power 
Commission, Ministry of irrigation and Power.—Post 
temporary but likely to continue indefimtely. Other things 
being equal, preference given to Scheduled Castes/Tmber 
candidate. ayi—Rs, را‎ 1,600 Higher د۱1‎ 
pay, to specially qualified and experienced candidate Age: 
—Below 45 years Relaxable for Government servants. 
Qualifications—Essentlali—(i1) Fellow Membership of the 
Institute of Cost and Works Accountants, London or 
Calcutta, having passed the final examination held by 
either ot these Institutes. (18) About 10 years’ experience 
of cost accounting in enygineemng and/or mduastral 
concerns, Qualifications relaxable at Commussion’s discre- 
tion 21) Case of candidates otherwise well-qualified 


8. One Costing Engineer, Central Water and Power 
Commission, Ministry of irrigation and Power.—Post 
temporary but hkely to continue indefinitely. Other 
things being equal, preference given to Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes candidate Pay:—Rs  1,300—60—1,600—100— 
1,800. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experi- 
enced candidate. Age:—Below 45 years Relaxable for 
Government servants. Qualifications—Essential:—t) 
Degree in Civil Engineering of recognised University or 
equivalent qualification. (1) Adequate experience of cost 
accountancy in responsible position on engineering works 
and about 8 years’ practical experience ag Civil Engineer 
in execution of works with mechanical equipment for 
earthwork and concrete. Qualihcations relaxable at Com- 
eae discretion in case of candidates otherwise well- 
qualifie 


و 


NATIONAL DEFENCE ACADEMY EXAMINATION 


THE Union Public Service Commission will hold a com- 
bined Army, Navy and Air Force Examimation at Allahabad; 
Bombay, Calcutta Delm, Jammu, Ludhiana, Madras, 
Nagpur, Patna and Shillong some time in December 1956 
for selection of candidates for admission to the National 
Detence Academ Age-limitsi—Candidates must have 
been born not earher than 2nd January 1940 and not later 
than 151 July 1042. These age-limits can in no case be 
relaxed. Qualifications:—Matnculation or equivalent 
Applications from candidates, who have appeared or intend 
to appear at Matriculation or equivalent examination 
acceptable provisionally. Application forms and full partl- 
culars obtainable from Secretary, Umion Public Service 
Commission, Dholpur House, New Delhi, by remitting 
Re. ] by Money Order or on cash payment at the counter 
Candidates must clearly state on Money Order coupons 
‘‘National Defensa Academy Examination, December 1956" 
and also 81৬৪ their name and full postal address in blook 
letters, Postal orders or cheques or currency notes will 
not be accepted im lieu of money orders Application forms 
and connected papers are also obtainable free from the 
nearest Recruiting Office, Military Sub-Area Headquarters 
or National Cadet Corps Unit Only unmarried male 
Candidates can apply for admission to this examination. 
Completed applications must reach Umon Public Service 
Commission by 15th September 1956 (20th September 1056 
for candidates abroad), 


CORRIGENDUM 


One Assistant Education Officer (Technical), Ministry of 
Education.—In partial modification of the Commussion 4 
advertisement No 20 (item 10) which sppeared on the 
19th May 1956, it is notified for general information that 
the age mentioned therein should be read as ‘Below 
years’ instead of “Below 35 years’’, Other conditions 
remain unchanged (‘losing date for receipt of applications 
extended to 4th August 1966, 


PaRt [1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JUIY 26, 1966 339 


৯১ ০১ نٹ‎ 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisoment No. 30 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Development Officer, Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation 
Directorate, West Bengal. 


{Ifications.— 
১8 Essential 


(1) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


vi) A good Honours or # good Master's degree. 


(011) Five years’ administrative experience in a Govern- 
ment Dopartment or a Commercial concern in 
responsible positions. 


(iv) Knowledge of Bengali—written and spoken. 


Desirable 


(i) Acquaintance with the various activities of the 
State Government for rehabilitation of displaced 
persons. 


(ii) Experience in running co-operative societies. 


Age ardinarily not above 45 years on lst August 1956, 
relaxable for candidates otherwise well-qualified. The 
upper age-limit is relaxable by five years for Scheduled 


Castes /'Tribes. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bongal after partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
inant and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years, 


(2) Pay.—Rs. 700 (fixed) plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage aflixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette” of the 18٦ September 
955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting, 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 17th August 1956. 


(4) Partioulars and oertifioates required.—Candidates 
thould furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
Previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
ہد‎ 0০৪০০271005 persons, testifying to their private 

aracter, 


(5) Fee,—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
one w» fee of Rs. 5 (for each category of ports) in the 
orm of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury 
or the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXVI— 
\scellanequs—Receipts of the Public Ser-ice Commission 
880 Bengal’. Money ordors, cheques, etc., in lieu of 
sreasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, how- 
وم‎ may be accepted from candidates. They should be 
پیش‎ ond made payable to “The Secretary, Publie 
7ت‎ বসল? রর 
consider unless accompanied wit isi 
application کڈ‎ comp ith the requisite 


in Government service should make eure‏ ۱ سس 
Shee, depositing fee that their হা will be‏ 
by their superior officers. no case will the‏ 21090 
Paid with the application be refunded.‏ 


The Commission ma i i 
ا‎ | y remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent ond bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


me") A سیت و‎ person claiming age (01109788101 
bay furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
ag 6 18 a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
mat prafugee registration card or a certificate from uo 
لیس‎ officer or a Member of Parliament or State 


est Bengal’’. No application will, 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(ui) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish hesides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee.’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will! disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. O. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Benyal. 


Alhipore, the 20th July 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 31 


APPLICATIONS are invited from male candidates for a 
stipendiary studentship current for 1956-59 for the West 
Bengal Senior Forest Service. 


(1) Qualifications.— 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part 11 of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) (a) An M.§8c.degree not lower than second class in 
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Botany, 
Zoology, Geology or Agriculture; or ھ‎ B.Sc. 
(Honours) degree not lower than second class or 
its equivalent in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, 
Botany, Zoology, Geology or Agriculture; or 


(b) qualifications from a foreign University accepted by 
the State Government as equivalent to the above. 


(iii) Knowledge of Mathematics up to the I.Sc. Standard. 
(iv) Age between 19 and 23 years on the lst April 1956. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years, 


۰ Candidates must be of sound health, good physique 
and active habits, free from organic defects or bodily 
infirmity and capable of hard touring. 


(8) No person will be eligible for appointment who has 
endeavoured to enlist for his candidature the support of 
persons of influence or of officials of Government. 
Spontaneous recommendations from persons interested in 
or otherwise known to the candidates will be disregarded. 


(4) Applications are to be mado on the prescribed _form 
which will be available from the office of the Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House 
(ground floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on 
sending a large self-addressed envelope, with stamps 
sufficient to cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates 
who are unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form 
may apply on any similar typed (mot handwritten) form 
showing exactly the wording and spacing of the sample 
form published in the ‘Calcutta Qazette” of the Ist 
September 1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the 
candidates’ own handwriting. 


(5) Candidates must enclose with their applications a 
fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from a 
Government treasury or the Reserve Bank of India under 
the head ‘‘XXXVI-—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders, 
cheques, ete., in lien of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and meade payable to_ the 
‘Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. 


340 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


{Pant 1 


eee eee Se 


Candidates should give their present address and should 
communicate at once any subsequent change of address. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their লা will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit genuinely indigent and bona 
fide displaced persons’ fee. 


Note.—A displaced person seeking remission of the 
rescribed fee should forward along with his application 
is Refugee Registration Card (in original) or a cortificate 
in original from a Gazetted Officer or a Member of the 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee, 


The lications must be addressed to the Secrotary 
and shou 4 reach him not later than the 14th August 1956. 
Each candidate must furnish the following certificates as 
well as a declaration whether or not he has at any time 
been pronounced unfit for Government employment on 
medical grounds:— ۱ 


(1) A certificate of age (copy of Matriculation Certi- 
ficate duly attested by a Magistrate or other 
responsible person). 


(2) Two elenar certificates preferably from responsible 
members of educational institutions that the candi- 
date is of good moral character, and that he has 
not taken an active part in an association of a 
character subversive of law and order nor has he 
come under its {nfluence so far as to be guilty of 
acts of indiscipline 


(3) A certificate testifying to the educational qualifica- 
tions, 


(6) From the applications received the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, will make a preliminary selec- 
tion. The candidate so selected will be required to 
undergo a medical examination by a Medical Board amd to 
obtain a certificate of fitness. 


(7) The final selection of candidates for deputation to 
the Indian Forest College, Dehra Dun, for a three years’ 
course to obtain the Diploma in Forestry will be made by 
the State Government. The selected candidate will he 
required to execute an agreement and security hond, 
prescribed by Government, binding himself to work 
diligently while at the College and to serve Government 
for not less than five years after passing from the College 
and in default to refund all money expended by the State 
Government on his training. 


(8) The candidate finally selectad will be required to 
join the Indian Forest College, Dehra Dun, by the 1st 
October 1956. 


(9) The selected candidate will be 80591) an outright 
grant of Rs. 300 and camp and kitchen equipment will be 
supplied at the cost of Government. While at the College 
he will be granted a monthly stipend of Ra. 150. The 
amount of stipend is reducible at the discretion of the 
State Govornment in the event of the report of his work 
at the College not being satisfactory. 


(10) According to College rules all necessary equip- 
ments must be obtained from the College contractors or 
as the Principal may direct. It is estimated that an 
initial expenditure of Ra. 1,050 to Rs. 1,300 according to 
whether a bicycle and personal equipment are bought by 
the student or not, will be incurred and the student must 
take this amount with Mim to Dehra Dun in addition to 
the caution money of Rs. 100. On his failure to do no, 
the student may he denied admission into the College by 
the Principal. 


(11) The selected stipendia student will have to 
undergo three years’ course of studies at the Indian 
Forest College, Dehra Dun, and will be appointed on 
probation to the Went Bengal Senior Forest Service in the 
scale of pay of Ra. 350—30—680—40—1,200 (E.R. after 
10th and 18th stages) on successful completion of three 
years’ course of studies and securing the Aasociateship of 
the Indian Forest College, unless Government decide 
meanwhile that appointment to the service may be made 
on satisfactory completion of the first two years’ course 
of studies and securing a preliminary certificate of the 
Indian Forest College, in which case stipendiary student 
مہ‎ appointed will be required to complete the third year 
of studies and to obtain the Associateship of the College 
within the first year of probation, failing which he will be 
liable to be discharged from service, 


(12) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
and temporary employment under any Government, a 
local or statutory body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corpora. 
tion) in India will be rejected unless they are submitted 
through the appointing authority of their posts or service, 


S. 6. CHOWDHOURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 215৮ July 1956. 


মস 
IN THE COURT OF THE 18T MUNSIF, SAMASTIPUR 


MONEY SUIT NO. 266 OF 1955 


The Rameshwara Jute Mills Ltd., situate at Muktapur, 
hee-station Warisnagar, post office and subdivision 
Samastipur, district Darbhanga, through Mr. R. 
Birla, the Manager of the Rameshwara Jute Mills 
Ltd., Muktapur, subdivision Samastipur, district 
Darbhanga, Mihar, petitioner, 


versus 


Shree P. K. Mukherjee, son of unknown, Bengali by 
caste, resident of mauza Haldarpara, Chandranagore, 
West Bengal, at present Supervisor of the Gan 8B 
Manufacturing Co., Lid., post office Bansberia, distnet 
Hooghly (West Bengal), defendant. 


Notice under order 5, rules 1 and 6 of the 01৬11 Procedure 
Code against the sald Shri P. K. Mukherjee, son of 
unknown, Bengali by caste, resident of mauza Haldar- 
para, Chandranagore, West Sengail, at present 
Supervisor of the Ganges Manufacturing Co., Ltd., 
Bansberia post office, district Hooghly (West Bengal). 


WHEREAS the abovenamed petitioner has filed the 
abovementioned Money Suit for realisation of Rs. 900 
مسر‎ nine hundred) principal and Rs. 74-8 interest 
total being Rs, 974-8 in the said Court, the date for settle- 
ment for issue has been fixed. 


So you are hereby informed to appear in person or 
through a pleader ×ط‎ the said date and file written state- 
ment if any and contest the suit, failing which the suit 
will be heard ex parte in your absence on 27th July 1956. 


BADRI NATH PATHAK, 80081, 
(680—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 6 OF 1946 


Kadipada Dutt, son of late Khudi Ram Dutt, of Kalikapur, 
Narsamuda, police-station Asansol, district Burdwan, 
petitioner. 


IT 1s hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an msolvent. The Court has regis- 
tered that application and fixed 11th August 1956 for the 
hearing thereof. 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the 14th July 1956. 
(585—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE 2ND MUNSIF AT 
DARBHANGA 


EXECUTION CASE NO. 188 OF 1955 


Shri Jadunandayd Singh, son of Shri Raghunath Singh, 
deceased, resident of Ganipur Tarauni, pargana 
Pachhim Bhigo, police-station Sadar, district Dar- 
bhanga, ১ batter 


versus 
Shri Jhunelal Sahu and others, judgment-debtors. 


Notice to Peter Micheal Dauson, son of Mr. Sydney Dausan, 
at present Grant Street, Calcutta. 


TAKE notice that decree-holder in the abovementioned 
wxecution case has ا‎ for execution of the decree 
passed against you and others in Title Suit No, 115 of 1948 
of this Court. You are therefore called upon to show 
cause by 27th day of July 1956, why the execution case 
should not proceed tailing which the execution case shel! 
proceed ex-parte. 


Given under my hand and the seal of this Court, this 
(100 day of June 1966. 


M. PRASAD, Muneif. 
(586—~1) 


parr IT] THH CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 341 


সি eT al eee ہے سس‎ 
THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA. 


gale notice under sections 118 and 119 of the ae پاپ ریم‎ of 1890, and sections 55 and 66 of the Indian Railways 
ct, ۵ : 


NOTICE is ×۷امعط‎ givon undor sections 118 and 119 of the Calcutta Port Act, IIT of 1890, and sections 55 and 66 of the Indian 
Railways Act, IX of 1800, that the undermontioned goods if not removed on or before tho 181 Scptember 1956 on payment 
of all chargos due will bo sold by public auction on the 3rd and 4th Septomber 1956 at 9-30 a.m. at Kantapukur, K. P. Docks, K. G. 
Docks und outlying sidings :— 


Quantity and description. Particulais. Consignee, Whero lying. 
4 Gunny peckod bundles Unloaded at Lambdu Shed K.F. on 17-60-52 Consignes D.C.0.8., old BNR, Kantapukur, 
M/MTJ/191/3C. Ex C. P. Van No, BN 16703 booked under K.D.C. 
Inv. No. 1/11838/80 of 5-6-52 Ex MTJ to 
K. P. Docks. 


One Wagon 9/0 slack coul Unloaded at Chetla Siding on 13-6-53 Ex Sender Messrs. Alkura Colliery, Chetla Siding. 
Wagon No. EI31177 booked under Sitaram. Consigneo Jagdam Piosad 
pur to Chetla Siding Inv. No. 2/423513 of Singh, AKRA, P. W. D. 
9-6-53, Brickfield, P.O. Bartola, 
district 24-Parganas. 


One Wagon M/Ore .. Unloaded at Lybian Depot on 26-4-51 Ex rer Lybian Depot. 
Wagon No. BN 24034 and lying unconnected. 
One Wagon M/Ore .. Unloaded at Lybian Depot on 1-5-5) Ex Wagon ee Ditto. 
No. EI 33844 and lying unconnocted. 
Unc Wagon M/Ore .- Unloaded at Lybian Depot on 17-5-51 Ex Wagon err Ditto. 
‘ No. El 71089 and lying unconnected. : 
‘ 
One Bale Heap .» Unloaded at B.K.P.D. on 24-6-53 Ex Wagon বির B.K.P.D. 


No. GIP25419 booked under Inv. No. 3/43401 
of 30-3-53 Ex Seoni to K. P. Docks. 


\ 
! Bags sugar .- Unloaded at A.K.P.D. on 25-9-53 Ex C, P. Van وو‎ Kantapukur A.L.H. 
No. 41415 and lymg unconnected. 
مہ(‎ Wagon Coal .. Unloaded at Chetla Siding on 2-6-54 Ex Wagon Sender K. K. Colley. Chetla Siding. 
No, 15100090717 booked under Katrasgarh to Consignee Messrs. Mahaluami 
Chetla Siding Inv. No. 51/534703 of 27-5-54. Coal Agency. 
مھ(‎ Bag Turmeric M/RJY Unloaded from G. R. C. Van No. 133135602 on ১৪: Kantapukur. 
2/8 KF, 21-56-083 and lying unconnected. 
) Cases M/SGUT 923/34 Unloaded at A shed, K.P.D., on 10-12-52 Ex ক: Ditto. 
JRGT. C. P. Van No. 17147595 and lying unconnected. 
9 Bundles Shooks M/PTK Pathankot to K. P. Docks, Inv. No. 14/116191 Sendor The Rubber Co. (India) Ditto. 
14/8C, of 12-9-51. Reed. Ex Wagon No. GIP4660 Ltd. 
at A.K.P.D. on 6-10-51 and lying undisposed Consignec Messrs. Lever Broa, 
of. (India) Ltd., 4 Lyons Range, 
Calcutta. 
119 Bags gram M/SGRA Unloaded at K.F. on 20-10-54 Ex Wagon No. ree Ditto. 
957/201 TZPE. WK376588 and lying unconnected. 
276 empty iron drum M/- Unloaded at T shed, Kantapukur, from Wagon rer Ditto. 
TATA 0. No. 8R24005 on 18-2-54 and lying undisposed 
of, 
! Bales hemp .. Unloaded at B shod, K.P.D. Ex Wagon No. re B. K. P. D. 
BB34647 on 16-4-03 and lying unconnected. 
ا‎ Bale jute .» Unloaded at 2 K.G.D. Ex Wagon No. GIP6595 ines Ditto. 
on 27-10-50 and lying unconnected. 
One wagon K /ore .« Unloaded at Oudh North on 26-3-54 Ex- Mossra. Ram Bahadur Thakur Oudh North, 


wagon No. ER 45128 booked under Inv. & Co., 135 Canning Street, 
No. 16/581407 of 12-3-64 Ex-Kandra_ to Calcutta, 


P. Docks.‏ کا 

113 Bags oilcake .. Unloaded from wagon No. WR 60911 on 18-9-53 8ے‎ Kantapukur, 
at Kantapukur and lying unconnected. 

2 Empty drums .. Unloaded from wagon No. ER 6465 at AK.P.D... ۱ 0 A. K. P. D. 
on 26-12-53 and lying 9৮৮ 

> 

: Empty drums .. Unloaded from wagon No. BB 4900 at A.K.P.D. 2 Ditto. 
on 12-1-54 and lying unconnected. 

7 

1 Bag coment .. Unloaded from wagon No. 45542 at B. K. P. D. ৪8 .کا .ا‎ ۶۰ Dz. 
on 20-3-53 and lying unconnected. 

/ Bags linsood .. Unloaded at K. F. on 16-11-52 Ex.-C. P. R. P. রনী Kantapukur. 

12 BXR Van No. 8527607 and lying unconncoted. 
541 


6 
KF 


742 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 [Parr [] 
Quantity and Desoription, Particulars, Consignee, Where lyingy’ 
One bag sugar, one bag Reoeived from C. P. Van No. SR 20380 at 5/7 2 5ا٦‎ K. P. D. 
empty ny and a lint. shed, K. P. 3), on 15-4-64 and Tying uncon- 
M/-PNC/73/2 KF. nected, 
3 Bage cement M/44/3C Unloaded at A. K. P, D. Ex-wagon No. ER ee Kantapukur চুক, P, 4, 


68861 on 24-1-63 and lying unconnected. 


One case M/-CP 862-1/ Lying unconnected and undisposed of since vas 
JNK bearing privato 20-10-49. 
mark “ The anager, 
Associated Cement Co., 
Ltd., Chaibasa Cement 


Works.” 
One wagon stone chips .. Unloaded at Lybian Depot Ex-wagon No. BN "0 
24353 on 18-10-53 and lying unconnected. 
10 Bags white powder- Unloaded at 5/7, K.P. D. Ex-C. P. Van No. 8528 


like substance M/- UNA. BN 33396 on 14-5-51 and lying unconnected. 


470 Bags cement 


Bezwada to K. P. Docks (N. P. siding). Inv. Sender Messrs. Andhra Cement 


No. 25/400390 of 29-56-53. Unloaded from Co., Ltd. 


wagon No. BN 30421T/8 from SR 20605 and Consignee—Selves, C/o Mesars. 
lying undisposed of sine 27-6-53. A. L. Mukherjee & Co, 


7 Cases paper M/-JAM/7C Unloaded at 5/7, K. P. D., from C. P. Van No. 


ER 90585 on 26-4-54 and lying unconnected. 


1 Piece log .. Unloaded from wagon No. SR 22051 at 3, 0.7۷.7. er 
on 21-1-55 and lying unconnected. 
6 Crates M/- 861, 36 Iron Unloaded at A. K. P. D. on 20-10-49 Ex-wagon coe 


kages M/- 862, 12 No. EI 6616 and lying unconnected. 
Fron packages M/- 860, 
and | package M/-nil. 


3 Bags gum M/- G-3-BZB Received at Cal. Jetties from C. P./R. P. Van re 


One Bale hemp (burst) 


No. 16767 on 28-8-54 and lying unconnected. 


Unloaded at 5/7 K.P. D. on 11-6-54 from 0. P. ere 


M/- BKOE/956/36/CED. Van No. CR 22463 and lying unconnected. 


One wagon stone 


One cas» M/-Supdt., E. Rly., Unloaded at A. K. P. D.on 17-12-53 Ex G.R.C. 


Kidderpore PWO 1/1. 


454 Bags red-oxide 


900 bags bran 


One wagon I /ore 


One wagon stone 


Daltonganj to K. P. D. Inv. No. 39/880016 of Messrs. H. K. Das M. Lall 
18-7-68. Unloaded from wagon No. 7 P 16 Kalakar Street, Calcutta. 


01914 on 31-8-63,. T/S from wagon No. 
KN 26477, 


Van No. EI. 67768 and lying unconnected. 


Hospet to Chetla Sdg. Inv. No. 1/025735 of Sender Messrs. Grogga Sid- 
2-3-53. Unloaded on 20-3-53 from wagon daramiah & Sons, 
Nos. BB 32069 and BB 8088. T/S from Merchants & Aommn Agents, 
wagon Nos. SR 12401/231 and SR 1899 /223, Sandur Bellary district). 


and lying undisposed of. Consignee Self. 


-» Unloaded from wagon Nos. CR 15934, SR Sender Allahabad Milling Co., 
Ltd 


24008, and 0 R 26042 at K.F, on 2-9-55, 3-0-56 ٠ 

and 6-4-65 booked under Inv. No. 8/35670 of Consignee Self. 
25-8-55 Ex Allahabad Milling Siding to K. জনা, 

and lying undisposed of. 


Barajamda to K.P. Docks. Inv. No. 4961/ Consignes 0108৪, 
26062 of 4-8-52. Unloaded Ex wagon No. Iron & Steel 


GIP13687 on 13-8-52. Stephen House, 4 Dalhousie 


Square, Caloutta. 


Sender R. G. Pasori. 


.» Unloaded Ex wagon No. G I P36897 on 21-5-63 ante 


and lying unconnected. পু 


One wagon stone -. Unloaded Ex wagon No. EI69887 on 5-2-54 and snes 
lying unconnocted. 
One wagon I /ore -» Unloaded Ex wagon No. 06 ০ 5-2-54 এল 


One wagon K /ore 


One wagon I/ore 


Ono wagon M/ore 


One wagon M /ore 


2 


and lying unconnected. 


.» Unloaded Ex wagon No. SR02281 on 7-5-54 vee 


and lying unconnected. 


- Unloaded Ex wagon No. CR8597 on 28-65-54 and TT 
lying unconnected. 


+ Unloaded Ex wagon No. 11138201 on 30-5-54 می‎ 
and lying unconnected. 


.- Unloaded Ex wagon No. 19192529 on 23-7-54 cree 


and lying unconnected. 


Kantapukur G shed, 


Lybian Depot. 
K, F., G shed. 


B. K. P. D. 


6/7 کا‎ P. D. 
3K. G.D., 8080৮. 


yard. 


এ G. and 
K. P. A. 


Kantakupur, L. M 
D. shed, 
5/7 20, P. D. 


Oudh North. 


Kantapukur, K.P.A. 


K.F./G. 


K.F./LMD & GMA. 


Oudh North. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Part IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


343 


eee es 


14008896765 and description. Particulars. 


Qne wagon gravel ». Unloaded Ex wagon No, ER23006 on 7-8-564 


and lying unconnectod. 


Ono wagon stono bouldor Unloaded Ex wagon No. EP48070 on 14-9-54 


and lying unconnected. 


One wagon C/ore Unloaded from wagon No. 117711221 on 16-10-54 


and lying unconnected. 


One wagon stone boulder Unloaded from wagon No. 811115671 on 8-12-54 


and lying unconnected. 


Unloaded from wagon No. NR66736 on 3-12-54 
and lying unconnected. 


One wagon gravel 


Unloaded from wagon No. 7۸1505 on 24-1-55 
and lying unconnected. 


One wagon gravol -٦ 


One wagon stone Unloaded from wagon No. ER/BN31100n 26 4 55 


and lying unconnected. 


Unloaded from wagon No. ER. 24242 on 27-5-55 
and lying unconnected. 


One wagon (/ore 


Unloaded from wagon No. NR41675 on 8-6-55 
and lying unconnected. 


Ono wagon stone chips .. 


One wagon I/ore -» Unloaded from wagon No. ER21616 on 16-6-55 
and lying unconnected. 
Six bags bran -- Unloaded 1n excess from wagon No. 7162 


on 69655. Booked under Inv. No, 14/ 
368427 of 28-8-65 Ex Ludhiana to K. ۰ 
Docks and lying undisposed of. 


Unloaded in excess from wagon No GIP27634 
on 14-4 52 booked under Inv. No. 5/983826 
of 6 4-562 Ex Hapur to K. P Docks and lying 


undisposed of, 


Inv No 2/730100 of 2955 Ex. Katthar to 
Kantapukur, 


11 bags C bones 


959 Bags wheat bran 


One iron tank .. Booked under Inv. No. 12/352945 of 16-2-55 
Ex. Bareilly to K.P.D. Unloaded from wagon 


No, ER 22629 on 7-3-55. 


Unloaded at K F. from C.P. Van No. El 70035 
on 8-0-54 Ex Samastipur and lying un- 
connected 


2 Bags sugar 


A quantity of shovels, etc., Unloaded at A K.P.D. on 19-3-51 from wagon 


15 scrap. No. GIP 9709 Ex. Kult: and lying uncon- 
nected. 
One crate machinery. Lymg unconnected .. oe ee 
M/- KKA / SPIVR 
4283/M/M, Box No. 3/3. 
8 Bundles rope Ditto oe oe ৮ ০ 
One drum scrap iron Ditto ٠ we ae 


Unloaded in ompty condition from foreign 
wagons -bearing various garden marks and 
10 8 


487 Empty chests of tea 


4 Bales gunnies oe 

3 Empty cylinders of which 
2 without caps. 

1 Bag sulphur 7 

8 Baga soda ০ 


1 Bag white powder. . 


Lymg unconnected .. 


from wagon No. NW 24638 booked under 
Inv. No. 1/60156 of 5.4-50 Ex Chakuha to 


K. P. Dooks and lying undispoecd of. 


৮ orushod myra- KRoceived in excess at 2, G R.J., on 11-4-50 
ams, 


Unloaded from wagon No. NW 24638 at 2, 
GRJ., on 11-4-50 booked under Inv No. 
1/50155 of 6-4-50 Ex Ohakulia to K. P. 
Docks. 


Bug 


crushed myra- 
bolams, 


Consignee. Where lying. 


eens Oudh North. 
৪৫ ॥ Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto, 
Ditto. 


save Ditto 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Aum Ditto. 


৪58 Ditto. 


“vee K.P.A., Kantapukur. 


G shed, Kantapukur.‏ وو 


Sender Messrs Gopi 01 Milla KPA and ALB. 
Consignee Self, Kantapukur, 


Sender Meears A. L. Sud 
Consignee Self. 


Oudh North. 


K.F., L.M.D. 


ee Kantepukur, K.P.A. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


Ditto. 


one Ditto. 


৮ shed, K.F. 


2 Ditto. 


Mpsers Overseas Trading Co., 
22 Swallow Lance, Calcutta. 


Ditto. 


344 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


9১৯ RATES (২০৯ EGRESS SS a A EI A ইলম 


[Part 1] 


Sale notice under sections 118 and 119 of the Calcutta Port Act, ۱۱۱ of 1890. 


Notico is also hereby given under sections 118 and 119 of the Caleutta Port Act, 111 of 1800, that the undermentioned goods 
if not removed on or before the Ist Soptember 1956 on payment of al] charges due will be sold by public auction on tho 3rd and 
4th September 1956 at 9-30 a. m. at Kantapukur and K. P. Docks :— 


Quantity and Particulars. 


description. 


5 Bales Aloe fibre 


Consignee. Where lying. 


Received at 2, K.P.D., Ex Cart on 23-10-51 for Messis. QOnkar Mall Bhartia, 23, K.P.D. 
shipmont but shut out by 5/8 C/O Bristol 
and 8/8 C/O Durham and thon removed to 


8 Royal Exchange Place, 
Calcutta. 


11, K.P.D., where also shut out by 6 


Matharan. 


61 Drums linseed 011 .. 


by her lying undisposed of. 


110 Pieces sockets 


Received Ex Cart at 12, K.P.D., on 2-5-52 for Mesers. B. D. Goel & Sons, A.K.P.D., 
shipmont per 8/8 Ikauna but being shut out 


18 Netaji Subhas Road, Cal- 
eutta, 


Received at 8, K.P.D., for shipment por 8/8 Messrs, Landing and Shipping Kantapulhur. 
Pachumba, Voy. November 1951 and shut 
out by her and lying undisposed of. 


Agency, 36 Strand Koad, 
Calcutta-1, 


3 Cases 131,109 M/- BAQD Roceived by gate for shipmont per 5/6 Fultola, Messrs, India Waterproofing Lambda Shed, K.F, 


1 ۱ 
سیت یت‎ lying 00988160599 of. 


12 Bags mica 
her lying undisposed of. 


1 B bolts and nuts 


M/- CMBP, Bombay. pe دو‎ por 8/8 Jalamani Voy. June 4 
an 


Voy. March 1954, but shut out by her and 


and Dyeing Works, 60/2 
Dharamtola Street, Calcutta. 


Recoived at 9, K.P.D., on 14-9-51 for shipment Messrs. Daga Shipping Agonts, K.P.A., K.F. 
per 8/S Chandpara but being shut out by 


Ltd., 8 Cunning Street, Cal- 
cutta. 


Received at 2, K.P.D., by gate on 1-6-54 for Messrs. J. C. Banorjoe & Sons, K.K. F. 


Custom House, Calcutta. 


shut out by her and lying undisposed of. 


A quantity of broken Salvaged cargo of 8/8 Sangola 
asbestos sheets. লা 


Dated Calcutta, the 26th July 1956. 


.. Moassrs. 9৮০6] Bros. & Co., Lid., K.F. 
Clive Buildings, Netaji Subhas 
Koad, Calcutta-1, 


L. M, HOGAN, 
Traffic Manager, 
Caloutta Port Commissioners. 


(680—1) 


নি ৯ eee penn اس سک‎ ah a ee جرد ہیی میں تچ ند‎ ee ee ee ee تر‎ ৮ 


IN THE MATTER OF THE BLUE PRINT PUBLISHERS 
LTO. 


AT oa Extraordinary General Meeting of the above- 
named Company duly convened and held at 5 Syamananda 
Road, Caleutta-25, on 14th July 1956 the followirg resolu- 
tions were passed as special resolutions: 

1) “That in view of the present situation of the Com- 
a and im the interest of the Share-holders and of all 
concerned the affairs of the Company be wound up 


voluntarily.’ 7 0 
9) “That Shri Asoke Kumar Sen Gupta, M.A., B. 

cone of 5 Syamananda Road, Calcutta-25, he appointed 

Liquidator at a fixed remuneration of Rs. 200 only. 


J. K. SEN GUPTA, 
Chairman. 


(581—1) 


nr 


IN THE MATTER OF INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 1956, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF LAKSHMI AGENTS PRIVATE 
LIMITED (IN LIQUIDATION) 


NOTICE is hereby given that at an Extraordinary 
General Meeting of the sahovenamed دی اک‎ duly 
convened and held at 243 Upper Chitpore Road, Calcutta, 
on Wednesday, the 27th June 1956, the following resolu- 
tions were passed as special resolutions: 

‘That the Company be wound up voluntarily as a 
members’ voluntary winding up and that Shri 8. 
Kothari, ۸.7.1... (Lond.), Chartered Accountant, of 
Grosvenor House, 21 Old Court House Street, Calcutta, he 
and is hereby appointed the Liquidator of the Company 
for the purpose of such winding up on the usual Chartered 
Accountants’ scale of fees for a voluntary winding up. 


“That the Liquidator of the winding up be authorised to 
distribute to the contmbureries any part of or whole of 
the assets of the Company im specie or in kind and to 
exercise all or any of the powers given hy clauses (i) to 
(iv) of sub-section (2) of section 457 of the Companies Act, 


1956.”’ 


Dated 20th July 6۰ 


For Lakshmi Agents Private Limited 
(In Liquidation) 
9. 8. KOTHARI, 
Liquidator. 


Grosvenor House, 21 Old Court House 80906, Calcutta-1, 
dated 2nd July 1956. 
(584—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF STANDARD PRODUCTS, LTD. 
CIN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 


NOTICE is hereby given to all the Share-holders that 
the Final General Moeting of the abovenamed Company 
will be held at 5 p.m. on the 29th day of August 1956, at 
No. 67, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road, Cwlcutta, when the 
Liquidator will lay before the meeting the account of the 
winding up showing how the winding up has been conduct- 
ed and the property of the Company has been disposed of 
and for dissolution of the said Company. 


Dated this 17th day of July 1966. 
T. M. SEN, 
Liquidator. 


(582—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF STANDARD PRODUCTS, LTD. 
CIN VOLUNTARY LIQUIDATION) 


NOTICE is hereby given to all the Creditors of the 
ahovenamed Company that the Final General Meeting of 
the said Company will be held at 3 p.m. on the 20th day 
of August 1956, at No. 67, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road, 
Calcutta, when the Liquidator will lay before tho meeting 
the account of the winding up showing how the winding 
up has been conducted and the property of the Company 
has heen disposed of and for dissolution of the said 
Company. 


Dated this 17th day of July 1956. 
T. M. SEN, 


Liquidator. 
(583-—1) 


LOST 


', w% Government Promissory Note No, CA041225 of the 
3 for cent. Joan of 1963-65 for Rs. 500 originally standiug 
in the name of N. E, Kanga, the proprietor by whom it 
was never endorsed to ony other person, having been lost 
notice is hereby given that payment of the ahove note and 
tho interest thereupon have been stopped at the 0 
Debt Office, Reserve Bank of India, Calonita, and thut 
application 14 about to bo made for the issno of duplicate 
in favour of the proprietor. The public are cautione 
against purchasing or otherwise dealing with the above 
mentioned security. 


Signature of the advertiser—N. I. Kanga. 


Ressdence—-29 Ezra Street, Calcutta-1. 
(§68—3} 


Part IT] 


SUNIL KUMAR MITRA, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Oourt at Calcutta. 


(533—4) 


I, SWADESRANJAN SARKAR, B.L., Pleader, intend 
to he enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(645—4) 


ATUL KUMAR BORAL, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 


(546—4 


ww 


NOTICE is hereby given that SUDHIR KUMAR DEY 
MULLICK, Attorney-ot-Law, intends to be admitted as an 
Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. (6514) 


KESHAB CHANDRA GHOSE, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. (500-4) 


SHRI PRADYOT KUMAR BASU, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(570—4) 


I, ABANI BHUSON GHOSAL, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advacate of the High Court at Calcutta. 


(587—4) 


MAHADEBDAS CHATTERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


(588—4) 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1958 346 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Caleutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and an application 
for payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbera. Any 
othor person/party who consider(s) himeelf/themsclves ag 
having a right to them are warned to communicate at once 


with the undersigned 4 
Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address 
of the applicant. 
W.D. 3/56-57 H/5-330668 100 Shri Tej Karan 
(Hindi). Bothra, 46/1 Strand 
Road, 06:7۰ 
W.D. 4/56-57 6 842 100 Shri Saligram 
(non-Hindi). Pandey, O/o. Sm. 
Brojo Bala Dassi, 
1/0-1 100 89/2 Ram 10181 
(Hindi). Sarkar Street, 
Calcutta. 
H /0-981458 100 
(Hindi), : 
8۔7/6‎ 100 
(Hindi). 
W.D. 6/50-57 H/3-826240 100 Shri M. Pandey, 
(non-Hindi). Directorate of 
Merine _Engineer- 


Caloutta- 2 7 ۰ 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 17th 
July 1956. 


946 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


[Parr 11 


১ সস 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and an appliestion 
for payment of their value has been received from the person} 
party whose names aro shown agninst the numbers. Any 
othor person/party who oonsider(s) himself/themselves ৪৪ 
having a right to them are warned to communicate at once 
with the undorsigned :— 


Register No. 


Name and address 
of the applicant. 


Notes No. Value. 


Rs. 


100 Shri V. N. Pandeya, 
Supervisor, Allaha- 
bad City ۰٥۰ 
Allahabad. 


W.D, 1/86-57 ٘ "۹ 7 


W.D. 2/58-67 1-61 100 Shri CGhans Ram, 
(non-Hindi). C/o. Shri Kishan 
Lall Parihar, Inside 
Jalori Gate, Jodh- 
pur. 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 17th 
July 1956. 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Belvedere have 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1058. The 
revised working hours are specified below:— 


Reading Rooms— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 
Sundays and holidaye—l0 a.m. to 6 p.m, 

Lending Section— 
Week days (including Saturdays)}—1l0 a.m. to 5 p.m 
Sundays and holidays—10 a.m. to 1-90 p.m. 


The Reading Rooma and the Lending Section wilt, how- 
bibl remain entirely closed on the following days af the 


(1) Republic D ti) Independence Day and 
i ahatins 223 Bi Day. i (it 
Persons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open w 
any one residing in any part of the jan Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security in cash is essential. 


B. 8. KESAVAN, 


Belvedere, Calcutta-27, the 6th March 19654. : 


172215/6166 No. C207 


۴ Gazette 


ty 


THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1956 


and Ordinances promulgated by the President 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Law 


The following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 26th May 1956 and is hereby published 
for general information :— 


ACT NO. XXIV OF 1956. 


THE PARLIAMENTARY PROCEEDINCS (PROTECTION 
OF PUBLICATION) ACT, 1956. 


[26th May, 1956] 


An Act to protect the publication of reports of proceedings 
of Parhament. 


Br it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows :— 


1. (1) This Act may be called the Parliamentary Pro- 
ceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1956. 

(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of 
Jammu and Kashmir. 


2. In this Act, ‘‘newspaper’’ means any printed 
periodical work containing public news or comments on 
public news, and includes a news-agency supplying material 
for publication in a newspaper. 


3. (1) Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), 
no person shall be liable to any proceedings, civil or criminal 
in any court in respect of the publication in a newspaper of 
a substantially true report of any proceedings of either 
House of Parliament, unless the publication is proved to 
have been made with malice. 

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed as 
protecting the publication of any matter, the publication of 
which ig not for the public good. 


4. This Act shall apply in relation to reports or matters 
broadcast by means of wireless telegraphy as part of any 
programme or service provided by means of a broadcasting 
station situate within the territories to which this Act 
extends as it applies in relation to reports or matters published 
ھ1‎ & Dewspaper. 


K. স্ব. BHANDARKAR, Secy. 


PART V—Acts of the Parliament of India assented to by the President 


Bhort title 
and extent. 


Definition. 


Publica. 
tion of 
reports of 
Parlia- 
mentary 
roceed- 


a‏ سد 


Act also to 


Registered No. C207 No. 30 of 1956 


Calrutta Gazette 


THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1956 


CONTENTS: 
سی‎ First F of Tobacco Crops of W se 
eekly Weather and Crop Report of West orecast obacco Crops est 
¥ ee Mie Seok نت‎ aha کور‎ Bengal for 1955-56. 8 187-8 
July 1956 as a4 ~« 483—~484 Third Final Forecast of Winter Rive Crop of 
Seoond Forecast of Spring Oilseed رس‎ of Weat. First Forecast of Winter Potato "7 of Weat 
Bengal for 1955. 56 ee ٠ ee 485—486 Bengal for 1985-56 ee e ee 491 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 12th July 1866. 


Summary.— During the week under report there was rainfall in thirty-five subdivisions. The weather conditions were unfavourable 
in ape ০ Transplantation of Aman continuing in some subdivisions. The condition of the standing crop was on the 
whole fair. 


The fodder reported to be insufficient in seventeen subdivisions and cattle disease was roported from six subdivisions. 
The wages of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two only during the week under report. 


Total The minimum 
rainfall of coarse Oharacter of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder 0৬৮৩০ Labour w 
Distetote and during fice in seers per weatherandite agricultural opera- seed, ifany. thestanding condition, 4118, without food. 
subdivisions. the rapee, effect on the tions. crops 
wek, ১২1৭ crops. (estimated 
This Previous outéurn). 
wee week. 
i 3 806) 50৪) 4 6 6 ۶ 8 9 10 
ع24-۴2۲‎ ۵۵۵. 
Sadar oe 0-81 115/16 2 Favourable .. Oultivation Nil .» ۲ . Insufficient No report .. Re. 1-3. 
progressing. 
Diamond Harbour... 2 2 er vues - 7 . 
Barrackpur .ہج‎ io <2 2 1/16 Unfavourable Cultivation al- Scarce .. Fair . Insufficient No report .. Re. 2. 
most suspend- 
ed, 
Baraset - 4:48 2 2 Favourable .. Aman __ trans Ditto .. Not good ** Ditto... Ditto ., Ba. 1-12, high. 
lantation con- 
inued. 
Basirhat wih 4°54 115/16 6 Ditto .. Seed-bed و جح‎ 7 Ditto My Ditto ১০ Ra. 1-8. 
paration pro- 
gresulng. 
Bongaon ae 1:67 115/16 1165/16 Ditto ws امام سس‎ 7 Fair 7 Ditto .. Reported .. Ra. 2, high. 
con ৪ 
Nadia. 
Bader .. 0:57 114/16 114/16 Favourable ., গ্রিন 7 Fair . Sufficlent .. No report .. Re. 1-12. 
Ranaghat -» 1:68 114/16 115/16 Ditto .. Intercultural ৩০৪০০ 99 । . Dite .. Ditto .. -Bs 1-8, 
sin 0010. 
۹ ued. 
Murehidabad. 
Sadar 1:98 114/116 115/16 Unfavourable ৪০৫! of 7 Not good .. Sufficient .. No report .. Re. 1-8, normal 
Khari n 
progress. 
Lalbagh ৬ 0:75 116/16 116/16 Favourable .. Aman transplan- Nil ». Falr a4 Ditto 7 Ditto .. 88 1-4, sormal. 
tation conti- 
nuing 
Kel 1. «OBO 2 1116 21/6 Ditto .. Ditto  .. NN .. Do ,. Insufficient Ditto .. Re. 1-8, sormal. 
Yeugipur, .. gee মি «118/16 016০ .. Ditto . Nu .. Do.  .. Sufficient .. Ditto .. Be. 1-8, normal. 
Burdwan. 
Badar n transplane Nil .. Falr .. 5 a Ra. 1-12, normal, 
-٦ 2۰0 115/16 115/16 Favourable .. و ا ا ہما‎ 
8 
Asansol ee ea 8 2/16 2 8/16 ھ٥‎ চিত টা ‘= শি রি 0 
بسک‎ . Ploughing for Nil .. Fatt .. Sufficient .. No report .. Rs, 1-8. 
٠ 1090 115/10 114/16 Favourable .. Ploughing | lor 
Kalng 7 146 08 1 18116 Ditto ہب‎ Weed and Nil ۰ Do. oe Ditto .. Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 


manuring con- 
tinued. 


484 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALUUTTA 0৯414441155 JULY 26, 1956 


| 


Total The minimum 
_ rainfall ee of coarse Character of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder t 
Districts ana during rice in seers per weathcrandits agricultural opera- sced,ifany. thestanding condition, وب اکا سم ا‎ 
oro 


subdivisions. the rupee. effect on the tions. ps 
week. co" standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous outtarn). 
week, week. 
1 2 80৪) 3(d) 4 ৪ 6 ? 8 9 10 
Birbhum. 
Sadar +8 214 116/16 115/16 Favourable .. Trans tati Nil ۰٠ a I 2 
/ ا‎ avo سو جس ا ا‎ on neufficient Reported .. Rs, 1-8, normal, 
Rampurhat.. 1:02 114/16 114/16 Ditto ae Ditto os ND o» Bair -. Sufficient ., - Re. 1-6, 
Bankura. 
Sadar .. 8-06 2 1/16 2 2/16 Favourablo .. ‘Transplantation Nil .. Falr .» bufficlent .. Roported .. عط‎ 1-8, 
progressing. 
Vishnupur *৭ 2-66 2 1/16 2 1/16 Ditto «» Ditto »» Nil e» Do, »» Ditto .. Noreport .. Re. 1-4, normal, 
Midnapere. 
Sadar (North) .. a 2 2 Favourable .» Transplantation Nil .. Falr ٠.٠ Bufficlent .. ws Ra. 1-8, 
= ke তে progressing. 
Sadar (South) ae ৫ 2 2 0 pees ee ৪৬ ee es ৪৪5৪৪ 
Contai »» 41:61 2 2 1/16 Cloudy vt aman is <a Insufficient Reported. 
Tamluk es 6:56 2 116/16 Unfavourable Growth of seed- Insufficient o8 Ditto .. N me . i 
/ 2 0 report Rs. 1-12, ea 
duc to rains. : 
Ghatal 7 1902 2 Favourable .. Land being ae Bleak 5 Ditto .. Ditto .. RBs. 1-8, ion 
prepared. 
Jhargram ne 4:04 2 1/162 1/16 Ditto -۰ কন as ne Sufficient ০০১ Ditto .. Re. 1-4, normal, 
Hooghly. 
Sadar a 0-30 112/16 112/16 Favourable ., Transplantation an Fair -» Insufficient No report .. Ba. 1-10. 
of Aman cunti- 
nued. 
Serampur 7 8۰04 112/16 112/16 Unfavourable 1800 and seed- জী Not good .. Sufficient .. Ditto .. Ra. 1-10. 
tion progress. 
ing. 
Arambagh 7 1:00 115/16 115/16 Favourable .. Preparation of Sufficluent ., Falr a Ditto... Ditto .. Be. 1, high. 
seed-bed conti- 
5 
Chandernagore me 1.12/16 1412/16 Unfavourable Weeding ham- Ditto .. Not good .. Ditto... Ditto .. Ha. 110. 
Hewrah. 
Sadar ৪ ও ee 1 15/16 1 15/16 eeee ৬৪৪৬৬ ee ae oe ৪ ৬ ৪৬৬৪৬ 
Uluberia a cn 115/16 115/16 Unfavourable বাশি বে Insufficient Fair »» Insufficicnt No report . Ka. 1-14. 
under prepara- 
ton. ۲ 
Jalpaiguri. 7 ۴ 
৪৬০ 
Sadar .. 881 114/16 114/16 Beasonable .. ee 7 Insufficient (×١ ×۱ .. ما‎ 2. 
+ oe 
Alipurduar *, 6:36 114/16 113/16 dean Transplantation ne ক oa Reported .. Rs. 2. 
of Aman oconti- 
nued. 
Darjeeling. 
88084 8 ৮৪ 110/16 110/16 Cloudy .. Transplantation Sufficient .. Fatr .. Sufficient .. No report .. Ru, 2. 
of Aman conti- 
nu 
ک1‎ 11930۱8 5 42 112/16 118/16 Wet .. Harvesting of Ditto... Do. -۰ Dito ০, Dito .. Es. 2 
ই, 0 summer, ۷۴۰ 
. table conti- 
nued. 
Siliguri ۔۔‎ 1188] 2 2 Favourable .. Transplantation Ditto... Do. .کا‎ Ditto ہہ‎ Ditto .. Rs. 2 
of Aman conti- 
nued, 
Kalimpong 0°60 115/16 ۵ Ditto .» Millet &trans- Ditto... Do. au Ditto... Ditto .. Re &, high. 
plantation be- 
gun, 
Malda 0:09 118/16 118/16 Unfavourable Transplantation Sufficient .. 7 . Insufficient No report .. Hs. 1-2. 
دیس‎ for 
insumoijent rain. 
West ۶٠: 
Sadar 15 114/16 N.B. Favourable fleed-bed prepa- Sufficient .. Fair ., Bufficient .. Reported .. Rs. 1-10. 
ration oonti- 
nued. 
0 06 118/16 ই... ines Trausplantation Ditto. Do. .» Ditto . No report ., Bs. 2, normal. 
Raigun / 7 plan a po 
106৫. 
98968 Behar. 
Sadar রা Re 116/16 1 14/16 er চি -۰ -7 7 7 کرت‎ 
Dinhata 4-65 N.R. 118/16 Seasonable .. Aus harvesting * 
continuing. 
Mathabhangs .. 7 113/16 118/16 Favourablc Caltivation _ Sufficient .. Fair .. Sufficient .. Noreport .. Bs. 1-8, high. 
damage 7 
heavy shower. 
Mekligan} ٦ .» 115/16 1158/16 Ditto »» Aman land Ditto... Do. .» InsuMcient Ditto .. Ras, 1-12. 
repara 
ae سس‎ 
Tufangan} és wa 114/16 114/16 Unfavourable Aman lanta- Ditto .. Do. .- Sufficient .. Ditto ॥ 2..9 3 
tlon cuntined. 
N.B.—No report. 


S. N, MUKHERJEE, 
Calcutta, the 20th July 1956. for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA 


GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 486 


2 জলজ ল্া্্ালললললল্ হরর 


DIRECTORATE OF ACRICULTURE, WEST 


BENCAL., 
Calcutta, the 2nd April 1956. 


Second Forecast of Spring Oilseed Crops of West 
Bengal for 1955-56. 


[Note.—Except for Darjeeling district the figures 
under Jiinseed, Rape and Mustard for last 
year have been taken from last year’s final 
forecast based on the results of sample survey 
and crop cutting experiments conducted by 
the State Statistical Bureau, West Bengal. 
Last year’s figures under heading “other oil- 
seeds (excluding til)” the figures for Darjee- 
ling district for last year and all the figures 
for this year are based on the reports received 
aa ری‎ staff of the Directorate of Agricul- 
ture. 


Season.—The weather conditions have been 
generally favourable in all the districts of Weat 
Bengal except Midnapore, Hooghly and Howrah. 


Area and yield,—The total area under Spring 
Oilseed Crops (except Sesamum for which separate 
forecasts\ are published) is estimated at 247,200 
acres thik year compared to 256,400 acres and 
300,600 acres reported respectively in the corres- 
ponding and in the final forecast of last year. 


The average yield rate per acre of different 
ring oilseed crops for the State as a whole is 
estimated at 4.41 maunds this year compared to 
4.70 maunds and 4.08 maunds reported respectively 
in the corresponding and in the final forecast of 
last year. 


Linseed.—46,400 acres are estimated to be under 
Linseed Crop this year compared to 49,600 acres 
ond 80,200 acres reported respectively in the 
corresponding ‘and in the final forecast of last 
year. The average yield rate mer acre of Linseed 
Crop this year for the State us a whole is estimated 
at 4.19 maunds this year compared to 4.16 maunds 
and 2.81 maunds_ reported respectively in the 
corresponding and in the final forecast of last year. 


Rape and Mustard,—186,900 acres are estimated 
to be under Rape and Mustard this year com- 
pared to 188,700 acres and 205,100 acres reported 
respectively in the corresponding and in the final 
forecast of last year. The average yield rate per 
acre of Rape and Mustard seed for the State is 
estimated at 4.39 maunds compared to 4.79 maunda 
and 4.56 maunds reported respectively in the 
corresponding and in the final forecast of last 
year. 


Other oilseeds (except til).—13,900 ৪0769 are 
estimated to be under “other oilseeds’? this year 
compared to 18,100 acres and 15,300 acres report- 
ed respectively in the corresponding and in the final 
forecast of last year. The average yield rate per 
acre of “other oilseeds” for the State as a whole 
is estimated at 5.42 maunds this year compared to 
5.26 maunds and 4.34 maunds reported respec- 
tively in the corresponding and in the fina] fore- 
cast of last year. 


9. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


qe eee 


Second Ferecast ef Spring Ollsced 61969 of West Bengal for 1955-58. 


timated area under spring Eatimated outturn, Date by which the 
2 ale ৩৫৪ (Area.) (Maunds.) harves of لت س۷‎ 
Disteicte. Names of the crops : a ۳ marks. 
spring ollsceds, Average Last Last comm: eat 
of preced- ear This ৪ This ear and w 2 
ing five (Final.) year, ( -) year. that date was early, 
years. (Acres). normal or late. 
(Acres.) (Aerea.) 
٠ a Middle February, The weather conditions 
তি চনত ক ea = "۰ চি ا کل کا کہ‎ 
Rape and mustard 6,100 4,100 2,400 4°40 5-00 
Other 01186605 (except til) 4,000 800 600 4:00 4°00 
Total 0,200 6,200 8,000 7 ‘a 
۰ ۰ J . The weather oondit 
Nadia .. Linseed ., .. 16,000 8,800 5,000 9°80 6-00 Lest week of January, ‘The weather oondltjons 
satisfactory. Diversion 
of area to other crops 
Rape and mustard 18,000 21,000 7,500 4°72 5°20 has been reported. 
Other ollseeds (except til) 300 200 4°50 
ممیفضایاکففرصحمتیسہ(۳ی(((م[500دحاایےےسصفف0امموکاوسمباواٗسمجوسوسئوٗ‌سسولاج“مسمٌ"م٭سمم”م“ِسػ٭مُِِةۂ(سسعےعٛوسحسوًسم سے‎ 
Total 82,200 42,900 12,600 
Murshidabad ہے‎ Linseed... 88,500 89,700 80,000 2°80 4:00 February, normal ‘ a দি: মং 
Rape and mustard 19,500 21,000 21,000 5°88 4:00 
Other oilseeds (except ti!) 1,000 900 900 5:00 5:60 
মি ১১১১১ 
Total 64,000 61,600 60,900 
۰ ٠ . The weather conditions 
Burdwan .. Linseed .. 7 600 1,100 موم‎ 850 First partof February, The weather | co 
Rape and mustard 8,400 4,700 2,000 4°40 4:50 
Other olleeeds (except til) 400 400 200 8:00 8:00 
শক পাপ 
Total 4,400 6,200 8,500 
٠ - 1 Tho weather conditions 
Birbbum ۔‎ Linseed .. 2,600 7,800 400 2°98 5°40 سی‎ 759 he ve been generally 
Rape and mustard 1,600 1,800 600 4°40 8-60 80 
Other 01185505 (except til) 100 100 100 4°00 5-00 
یی‎ CE وا صممسممممص: مج ے ہے سے‎ 
Total 4,800 8,700 1,100 oe ee 
٠ ۰ ডি weather conditions 
نی‎ . 4 8,000 1,800 $00 2°04 4:50 February, norma 22, পি রা 
[০7০ asd mustard ** 8,400 8,800 1,500 4°40 4°60 favourabis. 
Other otlseagis (except til) 9,800 9,500 9,600 4°00 6:00 
= ১১ ১ 0১ 
Total eo 34,700 15,190 14,800 ee ee 


486 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


Ketimated ares under spring سا یں‎ 0. Date by which the 


Oilaeeda (Area.,) (Maundy ) harvesting of the 
Diatriota, Names of the جس‎ nm nr ee শী ~ crops [.۸. 71 18. 

spring oilseeds. Average Last Last commenced 81 
of preced- 98. This pear This year and whether 
ing five سا‎ year. (Final) years. that date was early, 

years. Acres.) norninl or late. 

(Acres.) (Acres.) 
Midnapore ., +» Linseed... ۰ 900 1,500 800 0:79 6°00 2006 nor The weather ovunditions 


have not been satisfac. 
Rape and mustard oe 9,800 8,600 5,600 3:04 4°00 tory. 


Other oilseeds (except til) 2,300 2,500 2,500 5:60 7°60 


Total s 18,000 12,600 8,400 me ve 
Hooghly ae -. Linseed... me 6 re re we so January-Kobruary, The weather conditlons 
normal. have not been favour- 
Rape and mustard =. 2,300 $,200 1,700 4°40 4 ৮) able, 
Other oilsceds (except til) 900 600 -۰ 5°00 
Total ie 3,200 3,800 1,700 a ii 
Howrah . .» Linseed ہہ‎ ac 800 500 200 2°75 2°75 January-February, The woather conditions 
normal, have not been favour- 
Rape and mustard sy. 500 800 $00 4°40 5°00 able. 
Other ollseeds (except til) 1,000 800 aa 5:00 এ 
Total oe 1,800 1,600 600 ee oe 
Jalpaiguri ہہ‎ ee Linseed... as 100 = ox a6 mae January, vormal .. 110৩ =oweather = cunditions 
7 have been favourable 
Rapeand mustard .. 80,400 28,800 27,000 4 69 4 26 
Other oilseeds (except til) a নর a ae ae 
Total ৬৬ 80,500 28,300 27,000 ee se 
Darjeeling .. ». Linseed .. ও + ৪৪ -۰ -۰ January, normal ., The weather conditions 
have beon favourable. 
Rape and musrard ০, 8,400 1,900 2,400 1°78 4°00 
Other ollseeds (except til) 100 ae ei 7 নি 
Total -۰ 3,500 1,900 2,400 7 7 
ws 
Malds .. Linseed ہہ‎ < 8,400 8,700 700 2:42 8:00 January, normal .. The weather conditions 
have on the whole beon 
Rape and mustard *, $8,100 28,300 17,400 4°69 5:00 favourable, ‘ 
Other ollseeds (except til) 100 as 100 ee 8-00 
১ OTR GE I ct i A a aN I 55৯৩৯ EB OE 
Total ৬৪ 86,600 $2,000 18,200 os و‎ 
West Dinajpur «. Linseed .. ne 700 2,600 100 2°75 8:00 October, normal .. The weather conditions 
have been fair. 
Rape and mustard ৪৪ 52,200 40,100 61,600 4:40 4°00 
Other oilseed (except til) es ee ae ee ৬৬ 
Total .. 62,000 42,700 61,700 ۰ ۰7 
Gooch Behar . Linseed .. oe ae ee oe oe ৬৬ End of Jan , nor- The weather conditions 
০07 have been favour 
Rape and mustard ہ.‎ 83,700 $8,000 35,000 4°10 5:00 able. 
Other olleeeds (except til) ee রি ea he 
Total ei 38,700 88,000 85,000 a. on 
Total West Bengal .سے‎ Linneed ہہ‎ 7 63,100 80,200 46,400 21 4°10 


Rapeand mustard .. 212,400 205,100 186,909 4°56 4°39 
Other ollsceds (except til) 19,600 15,300 18,900 4°34 5:42 


Total oe 205,000 300,600 £47,200 4 08 4°41 


SUPPLEMENT TO 11179 CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 487 
چجچچ ]سپشعپیٹیٹىی ٍییٹٹٹ ٹ ٹسسڈڑوسسسسیسے‎ arr ee 


DIRECTORATE OF ACRICULTURE, 
BENCAL, 


Calcutta, the 25th January 6۰. 


WEST 


First Forecast of Tobacco Crop of West Bengal for 
1955-56, 


Season.—The weather conditions have been 
fuvoyrable in all the districts of West Bengal 
except Qooch Behar. Loss of some Tobacco 
growing areas ما‎ last year’s flood has been report- 
ed from West Dinajpur district. 


Area,—The total area under Tobacco in _ this 
State has been estimated at 36,600 acres this year 
compared to 36,500 acres and 39,600 acres report- 
ed respectively in‘ the corresponding and in the 
final forecast of last year. 


I. 715009647৮0 Rusticw.—21,500 acres are eati- 
mated to be under Nicotiana Rustica variety of 
Tobacco this year compared to 23,000 acres and 
25,800 acres reported respectively in the corre, 
sponding and in the final forecast of last year. 


Il. Nrcotrana Tabacum.—(a) Virginia type of 
Nicotiana Tabacum—The area under Virginia 
type of Nicotiana Tabacum ig estimated to be 
100 acres this year compared to 100 acres report- 
ed respectively im the corresponding and in the 
final forecast of last year. (b) Uther types of 
Nicoliana Tabacum—15,000 acres are estimuted to 
be under other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 
variety this year compared to 13,400 acres and 
۱۶,1۹۷۱ acres reported respectively in the corre- 
spouding and in the final forecast of last year. 


S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Iirector of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


First Forecast of Tobacco Crop of West Bengal for 1955-56. 


١ 
District. Varieties, 


1. Nicotiana Rustica 
2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum we oe 
Grand Total 


24-Parganad 


Nadia .ےم‎ 1. Nicotiana Rustica a a oe 
2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum ae 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum 
Grand Total 


Murshidabad ےم‎ 1. Nicotiana Rustica 
2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum at 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tebacum 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum ٠ 
Grand Total ee 
Burdwan os 1, Nicotiana Rustica এক 7 -۰ 


2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum 
Grand Total 


Birbhum -- ملا‎ Nicotiana Rustica oe ۰ টি 
2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 


(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum ৬৪ 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum 
Grand Total 
Bankura .. 1, Micotians Rustica a 7 
2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum és 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum as 
Total Nicotlana Tabacum 
Grand Total দত 
Midnapore -» 1. Nicotiana Rustica oe ee oe 


2. Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia tyne of Nicotiana 161 8] 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum a 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum) = == +e at 
GrandjTotal 7 


100 100 
- on October-November, nor- The weather conditions have 
mal. been fair. 


és ‘6 November, normal. 
100 100 
100 100 


Area in acres Date by which the sow- 
ing of the ray! generally 
Last This commenced this year Remarks 
سط‎ year and whether that date 
(final was early, normal or 
t). lato. 
4 6 6 
200 100 
es November-December, The weather conditions have on 
the whole been favourable. 
400 500 
400 500 
600 600 


October-November, Tho weather conditions have 
normal. been fair. 


The weather conditions have on 
the whole been fair. 


November, normal The weather oonditions have 
been falr. 


100 100 
100 100 J 
100 100 
100 100 


November, normal . The weather conditions have 


been favourable, 
100 100 
100 100 J 
200 200 
100 100 


. of November, nor The weather conditiona have 
۱ mal, on the whole been fair 


100 200 
100 200 
800 800 


488 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


হল _ےجِ‌‌,۔_۔۔۔تت_۔ممپ۱ى_٭”ىى_٭_جحچ[حچ_میی>بہیمی_۳_ت..۔.۔۔وسڈوےوےوممیو۔۔۔عممم_م|یممیےےے‎ 


District. 
1 
Hooghly te 
Howrah ٠ 
Jalpaiguri 7 
Darjeeling ৬৪ 
Malda oe 


Weat Dinajpur ey 


Cooch Behar a 


Total West Bengal .. 


1 


ea 
7 


1 


চে 


1 


Sel 
a 


1. 
2. 


Varieties. 


Nicotiana Rustica 

Nicotiana Tabacum— 

(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) 41] other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum as 
Grand Total 
Nicotiana Rustica i ক 


Nicotiana Tabacum— 
(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum - 
Grand Total 
Nicotiana Rustica aa ve 
Nicotiana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum” 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum ws 
Grand Total 
॥ 
Nicotiana Rustica ৪৪ cm 
Nicotiana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) All other typos of Nicotlana Tabacum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum <s 
os 
Grand Total 
Nicotiana Rustica =e a 
Nicotiana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotlana Tabacum 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum و‎ 
Grand Total 
Nicotiana Rustica -۰ aw 
Nicotlana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) AN other types of Nicotiana Tabaoum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum সা 
Grand Total 
Nicotiana Rustica ie 7 
Nicotiana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 


Total Nicotiana Tabacum as 
Grand Total 
Nicotiana Rustica as ee 
Nicotiana Tabacum— 


(a) Virginia type of Nicotiana Tabacum 
(b) All other types of Nicotiana Tabacum 
Total Nicotiana Tabacum 7 


Grand Total 


ee 


ee 


یہی 


Area iD acres. Date by which the sow- 
ing of the crop gencrally 
Last This commenced this year Rewarks, 
tt year. and whether that date 
(final was early, normal or 
forecast). late. 
8 4 5 6 
ae ٠ October-November, nor- The weather conditions havo 
mal. n fair. = 
200 200 
200 200 J 
200 200 
8,800 2,000 
ie 5 lst week of November, The weather conditions have 
normal, been favourable. It is report- 
2,800 8800 ed that transplantation is 
still in progress. 
2,300 2,300 
6,100 5,200 
و کم‎ Novempber-December, The weather oonditions have 
late. on the whole been fair. 
100 100 
100 100 
100 100 
800 900 
om os November, normal .. The weather conditions have 
been favourable, 
800 200 ] 
800 200 
1,100 1,100 ae 
200 200 
100 100 End of October, normal The weather conditions have of 
the whole been falr. 
700 600 | 
800 700 J 
1,000 900 
18,400 17,000 
as کرک‎ ember-Desember, The weather conditions have 
17 not been favourable at the 
10,600 10,000 sowing time. 
10,600 10,000 
29,000 27,000 
23,800 21,500 
100 100 
15,700 15,000 
15,800 15,100 


80,600 86,600 
que Ea 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA 


اجسحص‫ص--س- - -ٔ-ّْ EL ET‏ تس 
স্পা -‏ سے 


“y 
DIRECTORATE OF ACRICULTURE, WEST 
BENCAL, 


Calcutta, the 3181 February 1956. 


Third and Final Forecast of Winter Rice Crop of 
West Bengal for 1955-56. 


[Note.—The figures of «acreage and yield of 
Winter Rice for both last year and this year 
except for those of Darjeeling district and 
acreage figure of Birbhum district as shown 
in this forecast are based on the results of 
sample surveys and crop cutting experiments 
conducted by the State Statistical Bureau, 
West Bengal. As the sample survey is not 
carried out in the hilly subdivisions of Darjee- 
ling district, the figures of this district for 
both last year and this year and acreage 
estimate of Birbhum district for this year 
have heen estimated by this Directorate based 
on the reports furnished by the extension 
staff. ] 


Season.— The weather conditions have been 
generally favourable for the cultivation of Winter 


১১১১১১১১১১১ ০০ 00پ‎ 07 
ew 


GAZETTE, JOLY 26, 1956 489 


دیس 


সপ نچک‎ ee td 


Rice crop in all the districts except Hooghly, 
Jlowrah, where drought continued for a long time, 
Heavy rainfall which caused flood in northern 
arts of West Bengal has delayed transplantation 
particularly in West Danajpur district. The sub- 
sequent weather was also fair for the growth of 
the crop in all the districts except Hooghly, Dar- 
jeeling, Jalpaiguri, Malda,’ West Dinajpur and 
Cooch Behar, 


Area and yield,—8,816,6(4) acres have been eati- 
mated to be under Winter Rice this year as 
ngvinst 8,644,200 accres of last year. 


The total production of cleaned rice for the 
“tate as a whole is estimated at 3,718,800 tons 
this year compared to 3,341,600 tons of last year. 


The average yield of cleaned rice per acre for 
the State as a whole is estimated at 11.48 maunds 
this year as against 10.64 maunds of last year. 


S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


APPENDIX 


Third and final Forecast of Winter Rice 


Districts, Estimated area under Wintor 
Rice. 


ane eae. ee rice). 
Avorage of ant his سم‎ 
রি ing year yoar Last This Last 
five (Acres.) (Acres.) year year year 
years. (Maunds.) (Maunds.) (Approxi- 
(Acres.) mate) 


in tons 
of 2,240 
108, 


per acre (cleaned 


i-Parganas = .. 1,368,700 11:82 


۱ 


Fadia - 


1.303,000 0 491,000 


211,500 233,600 254,200 9-08 86,600 


Murshidabad ., 488,200 620,700 023,000 12-63 10°40 241,600 


Burdwan . 1,026,900 1,019,400 1,026,500 14-10 14°46 628,000 


Birbuum . 604,500 676,000  707,400° 13:23 14°19 329,000 


Bankura -. 700,600 682,800 728,100 11°07 12°07 277,500 


Midnapore . 1,989,000 1,885,800 1,945,600 10-02 698,900 


Estimated outturn Estimated production 
of Aman Rice 
(cleaned rice). 

co 


Crop of West Bengal for 1955-56. 


Date by which the 
harvesting of the cro 
generally commenced this 
year and whether that 

This date was carly, normal or 

year Inte. 
পা 


Remarka, 


Last week of November, 
normal. 


The weather conditions have been 
favourable for the cultivation 
and growth of the crop. 


The weather conditions have in 
general been favourable. Cases 
regarding attack of insect pests 
were reported. Floods caused 
slight damages. 


The weather conditions have been 
falr. Floods affected the crop 
in cortain areas. 


Increase {n area and yield rate is 
due to favourable weather coniil- 
tion both at the time of cultiva- 
tion and growth of the crop. 


Ditto ee 


199,800 ist week of November, 


nor ٠ 


545,30 Ist week of December, 


normal. 


368,800 Last week of November, 


normal. 
Decembér, normal oF 


The weather conditions have in 
general been favourable. 

322,900 Increase in area and yield rate 
ia due to favourable woather 
condition, 


The weather conditions have been 
favourable for the cultivation 
and growth of the crop. 


780,500 November, normal ٠ 


Hooghly 


Howrah 


Jalpaiguri 


Darjeoling 


Maida 


Wet Dinajpur 


0০০08 Hehar 


-» 426,800 


«» 220,600 


»৯ 897,909 


oe 68,800 


«» 260,800 


608,000 


~» 828,000 


411,800 


204,900 


891,800 


70,900 


241,800 


610,000 


369,900 


214,800 


438,100 


78,700 


266,600 


615,500 


828,000 


Total Weat Bengal 8,659,100 8,844,200 6 
এ পরার রাঃ TN Ser 


ne a ac an سے سکس‎ i SE A ii 
*Estimated by this Directorate of Agriculture. 


10°88 


11°11 


15°81 


8:67 


10:64 


9-40 


10°64 


1285 


10°99 


10°07 


0:75 


8:27 


0°01 


41-48 98,341,600 37,18,800 


187,100 


81,500 


150,900 


39,900 


77,000 


199,800 


104,900 


167,800 


86,500 


160,200 


26,400 


81,500 


166,600 


108,000 


December-January, normal 


Ditto ee 


The weather conditions have not 
been favourable. Decrease in 
are aand yield rate is due to 
continuous drought. 


The weather conditions have not 
been favourable for the cultiva- 


tion and growth of the crop. 


November-December normal The weather conditions have been 


Middle of November... 


November, normal 8 


December-January, normal 


December, normal کر‎ 


favourable for the cultivation of 
crop but subsequent weather 
was not favourable for the 
growth of the crop. 


The woather conditions have been 
favourable for the cultivation of 
the اسم‎ Decrease 51010 rate 
ig duo to funfavourable weather 
conditions. 


The weather conditions have been 
on the whole favourable. Flood 
water submorged the crop in 
শিপন places and affected the 
ae rate to some extent. 

mage of el pest attack 

has been reported. . 


The weathor conditions have not 

been favourable. Heavy rainfall 
which ca ood affected the 
transplantation as woll as the 
growth of the “ele Da of 
crop Be flood has also 
repur to some oxtont. 


The weather conditions have on 
the whole been falr, 
in yield rate is due to drough 
at the flowering stage. 
by flood has been reported. 


490 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1956 


APPENDIX Ii 


Abstract statement of the estimated acreage and outturn of Winter Rice Crop of West Bengal for 1955-56. 


Area in (000) acres. Percentage by which Yicld in (000) tons. 
rc Col. (2) exceeds (+) oF ہم‎ 
Btate, Of current Ofprevious Average of leas than (—) Ofourrent Of previous Average of 
year’ crop years’ crop. পন ery year’s crop. year’s crop. سر‎ 
ve years. 001. (8). Col. (4). 
1 2 8 4 § 6 7 8 ] 
West Bengal ae 8,816 8,644 8,089 +8 +۵ 5119 8,888 $,634 


Raintall Statement for 1956. 


Districts. September, October. November. 


স্পা পেস্ট শপে পাপী 
Actual, Normal. Actual. Normal. Actual. Normal. 


4-Parganss ২, 7 7 305 9-95 14:86 4:48 3-26 
Nadia 7 7: 7 2:72 7:06 4:38 4:24 1-48 
Murshidabad =, 7 5-41 9-14 ৪.9? 84 1-42 
Wost Dinsjpur .. - 1. 2048 11-98 3-87 5-20 1-25 
Jalpaiguri 7 7 ees) eee) ory 2-88 5:508 এ]! 

Darjeeling me ১৯191951767 1-67 5:18 Nil 

Malda 7 7 7 8-02 11:82 249 4:35 0-69 
Cooch Behar... 4 7 8.6? (n) 0:20 (n) Nil 

Burdwan os = 7 7 80 ৪.0? 80 151 
Birbhum - 7 - 5-56 9-37 21 8-40 9°29 
Bankura 7 7 4:71 7°87 8-46 3:12 1-47 
Midnapore 7 রী 7 889 8-51 9-43 30 8-68 
Hooghly = 7 7 6-54 8-42 5-07 3-84 1-41 
Howrah 7 7 7 81 9-01 8-38 4:39 2-58 


(a) Data not received. 
(n) Not ascertained. 


0:81 
0.98 
0:65 
0:37 
0-49 
0:85 
0-45 
(n) 
0:86 
0°47 
0:6৮ 
0:87 
0:69 
0-60 


Percentage by which 
Col. (7) exceeds (+) or 


leas than (—~), 


ve years, Column (8), Oolumn (9), 


10 11 
+11 8 +2 84 
December. 
“Actual. Normal. 
Nil 0-18 
Nil 0-1] 
Nil 0-16 
Nil 0-08 
Nil 0:17 
0:38 0-27 
Nil 0-07 
(৪) (n) 
Nil 0-19 
Nil 0-10 
Nil 0-11 
Nil 0-16 
Nil 0-25 
Nil 0-19 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, JULY 26, 1966 49] 


DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE, WEST 
BENCAL. 


Calcutta, the 20th January 1956. 


First Forecast of Winter Potato of West Bgngal 
for 1955.56. 


| Note.—The figures of last year except that of 
Darjeeling district shown in this forecast, 
have been taken from the last year’s final 
forecast of Potato based on the results of 
sample survey conducted by the State Statisti- 
cal Bureau, West Bengal. The estimates for 
this year and that of Darjeeling district for 
last year and this year have been based on the 


reports received from the staff of the Direc- 
torate of Agriculture, West Bengal. ] 

Season.—The weather conditions have in 
রা: been favourable in all the districts of 

est Hengal for the cultivation of the crop except 
West Dinajpur. 

Area.—107,300 acres are estimated to be under 
Winter 1১01860 this year compared to 111,700 
acres and 100,900 acres reported respectively in 
the corresponding and in the final forecast of last 


year. 
S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


First Forecast of Winter Potato of West Bengal for 1955-56. 


Estimated area under Winter Potato. Magee by which the sowing of 
সা 


crop generally commenced 


lento 
Districts. Average of Last year, Thisyear. _ this year and whether that Remarks. 
preceding date was early, normal or late. 
five ۵۰ 
(Acres.) (Acroas.) ( Acres.) 
1. 24-Parganas 6 4,900 6,200 6,000 Middle of November, normal The weather conditions have on the whole been fair, 
2. Nadia on 1,300 1,000 1,900 Ditto ও .. The weather conditions have been favourable, 
8. Murshidabad we 6,200 4,600 7,000 November, normal .یی‎ The weather conditions have been favourable for the 
cultivation of the crop. 
4. Burdwan .. "A 16,000 19,100 14,800 Middle of October, normal .. The weather conditions have been favourable. Sowing 
is still in progress. 
5. Birbhum .. a 9,000 8,700 7,000 November, normal *০ The weather conditions have been favourable for the 
cultivation of the crop, 
6. Bankura ** a 8,600 8,000 5,200 Ditto ee .. The weather conditions have been favourable. It ts 
reported that irrigation facilities have been provided 
m tanks and bunds. 
7. Midnapore .. ce 10,800 9,400 10,100 rer er 
8. Hooghly... re 28,500 29,600 29,800 October-November .« The weather conditions have been favourable. Diver- 
sion of other crops to Potato crops has been reported. 
0. Howrah... 7 2,800 8,000 8,000 November, normal .. The weather conditions have on the whole been fair. 
10. Jalpaiguri .. 7 3,700 5,000 6,000 October, normal ,. .. The weather conditions have been favourable. 
11. Darjeeling .. کک‎ 1,500 1,400 1,200 November, normal و‎ Ditto. 
12. Malda - ۰ 1,000 1,400 2,200 Ditto ৪৬ sa 22 0 conditions have on the whole been favour- 
able. 
18. West Dinajpur -۰ 4,700 5,000 4,400 October-November, normal .. The weather conditions have not been favourable for 
the cultivation of tho crop. 
14. Cooch Behar ‘in 3,800 4,500 7,000 Ditto ৪8 ~~ conditions have on the whole been favour- 
able. 
Total Weat Bengal ৪৪ 07,200 100,900 107,800 


i d published by the Superintende 
সি os West Bengal bovercinent Press, 


nt, Government ا‎ West Bengal, 
Alipore on the 26thJuly 1955. 


Ragistered No. C207 


APPENDIX TO THE 


Gazette 


THURSDAY, JOLY 26, 1956 


পিপি 


সা 


ے۔ — 


Descriptive Catalogue of Books and Publications registered in the State of West Bengal 
during the quarter ending the 30th June, 1953 


UNI-LINGUAL BOOKS. 


Assamese— Biography 


1. মোৰ সত্য অন্যেষণৰ কাহিনী- মহান্বাগাঙ্কীৰ আত্মজীবণী-_ 


Mor Satya Anveganar Kéhini. Mahatma Gandhir 
tmajivani. An Account ofmy Search for Truth. 
Autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi. An Assamose 
rnndering of tho Autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi in 
Gujrati.]) Translatod by Amiya Kumar Das. Puges 
22+696. Published by Tirthanath Sharma, Gandhi 
Sahitya Parishad, Gauhati. [24th June, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16170. 4th oaition. (T.). Rupeos. 6. 


Devaprasad Mitra, Elm Press, 63 Beadon Street, 
Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 
_(drd edition not received. 2nd odition noticed 
inontry No. 1 at page | of the Catalogue for the quartor 
nding December, 1940. ] 


2. 55ا۹‎ ৰমাবাইৰ ate জীৰন চৰিত-_ 

[Pandité Ramabiir Atma Jivan Carit. Autobio- 
graphy of Pandita Ramabai. An Assamoso transla- 
ton of a work ontitled “The Lifo of Pandita Ramabai 
৪৪ 1010 by herself” showing how Ramabai, a girl of an 
orthodox Hindu family of Mangalore, ultimately found 
peaco in Christianity.] Translated by Dr. and Mrs. 
W. E. Witter. Pages 64. Published by M. J. Tuait, 
Council of Baptist Churchos in Assam, Gauhati, Assam. 
1053. [21st April, 1953.} Demy 8vo. Ist edition. 
[Uustrated. 6 annas. 


G. ©. Ray, Navana Printing Works, Ltd., 7 
Ganesh Chundor Avenue, Calcutta. - 2,000 copies. 


(lst edition noticed in entry No. 2 at page 2 of the 
Catalogue for tho quartor ending March, 1923.) 


Assamese—Drama 


3. Mathura Nath Deka—arte— 
ہوم مغ‎ The 9029, A collection of seven 
ort plays mostly based on historical and social topics. ] 
88০৯ 2441, Publishud by B. N. Doka, Gana Sahitya 
814৪ Bhavan, Karaia, Kamrup, Assam. [0th June, 
953] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 8 amnas. 


083৯৪1৮0800 Mitra, Elm Pross, 63 Boadon Stroot, 
01668, 1,000 copies. 


Assameso—Fiction. 


4. Abir—afsyg—a— 

[Agnidagdha—-2. Fire-burnt—2. Sequel to the former 
part, narrating fwther sufferings in the heroine’s 
unhappy life due to shocks received at the tragic ond of 
some of her dear ones.] Pages 1+102. Published 
by B. C. Barapujari, Visvavani, Jorhat, Assam. 
1962. [18৮ June, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist 
aditicn. Rupee 1-10 annaa. 


Dovaprasad Mitra, Elm Press, 63 Boadon Street, 
Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


{Previous part noticed in entry No. 43 at pago 4 of 
the Catalogus for the quarter onding June, 1952.] 


Educational— 
5. Praphulla 13898 গ্রীচ দেশৰ সাধু-_ 


(070 Degar Sadhu. Storios of Greece. Contains a 
number of traditional stories of ancient Greece for child- 
ren.}] Pages 1+68 Published by Bibhubhusan 
Chaudhuri, Sahitya Mandir, Shillong, Assam. 1963. 
(20th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16000, 3rd_ edition. 
Rupee ۰ 


Saurendra Mitra, Bodhi Press, 5 Sankar Ghosh Lane, 
Calcutta. 3,300 copies. 


[2nd edition noticed in entry No. 5 at page 2 
of tho Cataloguo for the quarter ending Juno, 1852, 


Assamese—Language. 
Kducational— 


6. Mathura Nath Doka—aifr سوہ‎ 


[Adi Puthi. An Assameso Primor.] Pages 37. Published 
by Khyatimal Deka, Karara, Assam. 1953. [11th March, 
i963.) Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


Tirtha Nath Pal, Nabajiban Press, 66 Grey Street, 
Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


7. পর্দীপ--. 
[Pradip. An Assamoso reader containing prose and 
poetry piects.] Compiled by Dandinath Kalita. Pages 
44-166. Published by Bhabiram Kalita, B. R. Kalita 
and Co., Tejpur, Assam. 1053. [23rd April, 1953,] 
Double Crown 16mo. 13th edition. IUustrated. Rupee 
1-8 annas. 

Atul Chandra Chakravarti, Bharat Mihir Press, 85 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 4,100 copies. 


Assamese—Language—concld. 
Educational—concld, 
8. সাহিত্য মুক্তাবলী-_. 


[Sahitya Muktavalf. A book on literature for the 
students.) Edited by Dandinath Kalita. Pagos 84-186. 
Published by Bhabiram Kalita, Tezpur, Assam. 
[23rd April, 1953.) Double Crown 16050, 6th edition. 
Rupeo 1-10 annas. 

Atul Chandra Chakravarti, Bharat Mihir Press, 
85 Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 2,100 copies. 


9. Satyanath Barua—weq ব্যাকৰণ-_ 
[৮৪৮৪] Vyakaran. An Assamese grammar.] Pages 
12+-312. Published by Jnananath Borah, 2 Earle 
Road, Gauhati, Assam. 1953. [9th April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 13th edition. Rupees 3. 

Atul Chandra Chakravarti, Bharat Mihir Press, 85 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


Assamese—--Mathematics. 


Educational— 

10. Gopal Chandra 73870৪৮ গণনা শিক্ষা 
[Ganana-Siksd. Intended for young students.]. Pages 
46. Published by the author, Gauhati, Assam. [6th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 5 
annas. 

Samarendra Bhusan Mullick, 16 Homendra Sen 
Street, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


11. Saifuddin Ahmad—re গণিত | প্রথষ তাগ-__ 
[Sahaj Ganit. Pratham Bhig. A book on arithmotic 
intended for the students of class IV.] Pages 166. 
Published by Gopal Chandra Barua, Barua Agency, 
Gauhati. [8th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16720. 
lst edition. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


8. ×ظ‎ Mullick, Bani Press, 16 Hemondra Son Street, 
Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


12. Santiram Das, (B.Sc., B.T.)—te গণিত | দ্বিতীয় ভাগ-_ 
[010 Ganit. Dvitiya Bhag. An Assamese arithmetic for 
use in Classes If and ITT.] Pages 6+190. Published 
by Devadas Kakati, Phulukutir, Bihabari, Gauhati, 
Assam. (29th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16280. 
8th edition. Rupoe 1-4 annas. 

Atul Chandra Chakravarti, Bharat Mihir Presa, 85 
Upper Circular Road, Caleutta. 10,100 copies. 


Assamese— Medicine. 


13. Ratna Rajkhora, (M.D.)—w7sp রোগৰ পৃতিৰোধ-- 


[Yaksmérogar Pratirodh. Prevention of Phthisis. A 
treatise on the prevention of phthisis and its treatmont 
according to Humoopathy.] Pages 4+136. Published 
by the author, Hahnemann Hospital, Kama: bandhali. 
(20th June, 1953.) Double Crown I6mo. 186 edition. 
Rupees 3-8 ۰ 


Devayprasad Mitra, Elm Piess, 63 Beadon 9৮701, 
Calcutta. 2,000 copier. 


Assamese—Miscellaneous. 


14. কনষ্টেবল ম্যানুয়ালস-_ 


[Kanstebal Myanuyal. Constable Manual. An Assa- 
mese version of an English hand-book of the namo 
mentioned in tho title written by Major Chamney 
containing instructions, directions, etc., that are of 
immense help to constables in the performance of 
their day-to-day official duties.] Compiled by শি. K. 
Lahiri, revised by Ka: Bahadur J. N. Ray, I. P., and 
translated by Pramadacharan Banerjoo, M. A., B.T., 
Kaviratna. Pages 6+218. Published by Parthakumar 
Lahiri, 4A Wellington Square, Calcutta. [28th April, 
1953.} Double Crown 16mo. Ist eaition. (T.) Jllus- 
trated. Rupees 3. 


Brajendrakishor Sen, Modern India Pross, 7 Welling- 
ton Square, Calcutta. 2,200 copios. 


TI—1083 
Assamese—Miscellaneous—conéd, 


16. ate মোহিনী sy— 


[Raj Mohini Mantra. Superb Enchanting Charm 
Apparently contains a number of mystic formulas tc 
be used as charms for differont purposes.| Compiled by 
1১10৮ Ojha (late). Pages 47. Published by سا‎ 
Goswami, Satra Pathi Bharala Dhalar Sata, Assam 
1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [l0th June, 1953.) Doubk 


Crown 16700. Ist edition. 12 annas, 
Deva Prasad Mitra, Klm Press, 63 Beadon Streot 
Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


Assamese. --Poetry. 


16. Binanda Chandra Barua—tuyfa— 


[Sankha-Dhvani. Blowing of Conch-shell. Contains 
poems on miscellancous topics.] Pages 9+122. Pub- 
lished by Radha Prasad Barua, Banti Sahitya Mandir, 
Mariyani, Assam. [14th June, 1953.] Double Crown 
1601. 3rd edition. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Devaprasad Mitra, Elm Press, 63 Boadon Street, 
Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


[Previous edition not recoived.] 


v 


Assamese— Religion. 


17. Atulchandra Hajarika, (M.A., B.L., B.T.)— 


কাব্যকাহিনী-_ 

[Kavya-K&hini. Mythological Stories. Contains five 
short instructive mythological  storivs, apparently 
intended for children.] Pages 2-1-9, Published 
by Bibhubhushan Chaudhuri, Asamiya Sahitya Mandir, 
Gauhati, Shillong. 1953 A.D. [29th April, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Jllustrated. Rupee 
1-12 annas. 


Saurondranath Mitra, Bodhi Press, 6 Sankar Ghosh 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


18. Barua and Barua—wefta বামায়ণ--- 


[Akanira Ramayana. The Ramayana for children. 
Contains in prose tho story of the Ramayana.) Pagos 
138. Published by Bibhubhushan Chaudhuri, Asa- 
miya Sahitya Mancir, Shillong, Assam. 1053. [4th 
June, 1953.] Doublo Crown I6mo. 186 edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Saurondra Nath Mitra, Bodhi Press, 5 Sunkar Ghosh 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Bengali— Agriculture. 


19. পশ্চিমবর্গ প্রাদেশিক ہجو کپچ‎ খাদশ | afer 


খসড়া পরশ্তাব__ 
[0৮4০7 Banga Pradesik Kreak Sammelan—D)vidsd 
Adhivegan—Khasda Prastav. West Bengal Provincial 
Peasants’ Conference. Twelfth Session. Draft Pro- 
posal. Contains the draft proposal adopted by the 
conferenco in its seasion hold at Bagnan, Howrah, during 
May, 1953. Criticises the Government's food policy; 
Five-Year Plan, Zamindary Abolition Bill, 900, and 
dwellson various economic problema of the poasants, 
as also on tho necessity of thoir united demand for ? 
change of Government policy which is aaid to be dott 
mental to the interests of tho people and to be holpfu 
to capitalist monopoly.] Pagos 29. Published by 
Jnan Chakravaiti for Wost Bongal Provincial Poasan 
Assembly, 1 British Indian Strovt, Calcutta. [16 
June, 1953.] Demy 8vo. Ist ) +۰. 


Sunil Kundagrami, Ganasakti Printers, 33 Alimuddin 
Lane, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


10--”1953 


Bengall—Arts and Crafts. 


20. Bimal Kumar Datta, (M.A.)—ortte শিল্প (আঁদিপব্ধ)--* 


[Bharat.Silps. (Adi Parvva). Indian Art. (15 
Chapter). Dwells mainly on the development of Indian 
art of sculpture through different ages. Also con- 
tains illustrative photographs.) Pages 2+56+0. 
Published by Arun Kumar Munshi, Indian Publicity 
Society, 21 Balaram Ghosh Strect, Caloutta. [28th 
March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupees 4. 


Kalidas Munshi, Puran Press, 21 
Street, Caleutta. 1,100 copies. 


Balaram Ghosh 


Bengali—Astronomy and Astrology. 


21. — WEE ۶۲۷ ۹9۵ কোং লিঃ ১৩৬০ সালের পঞ্জিকা 
[Batakrsna Pal End. Kom رانا‎ 1360 58161910105, 
Batakrishna Pal and Co. Ltd. Almanac for 1360 B.S. 
A Bengali almanac for the year 1360 8.8. or 1953-54 


A.D.) Pages 112+399+4+5+-5. Published by Lal 
Bihari De, 3 Kashi Mitra Ghat Street, Caloutta. 
(24th March, 1953.] Double Demy 32mo. Ist edi- 


tion. 


Sudhir Kumar Das Gupta, Kamala Printing Works, 
3 Kashi Mitra Ghat Street, Calcutta. 10,000 copies. 


22., Harish yhandra Bhattacharyya, (Sastri) 

সামুদিক রাত 

[Sémudrik-ratna. Gem of Palmistry. A book on 
palmistry said to be based mostly on the oriental system 
of palmistry.] Pages 4+9+200. Published by the 
author, 141-16 Rusaa Road, Calcutta. 1358 sal or 
1951-52. A.D. [80th April, 1952.) 9°x44". Ist 
edition. Illustrated. Rupees 5. 


Paramananda Sinha Ray, Sri Kali Press, 67 Sitaram 
Ghosh Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


23. were হাক Afar) ১৩৬০--- 


[Mahendra Haph-Pafijiké 1360 The Mahendra Half 
Almanac for 1360 BS. or 1953-54 A.D. A_ short 
almanac for the Bengali year 1360 sal.] Pages 106. 
Published hy Tarapada Das, 116 Upper Chitpur Road, 
Calcutta. [22nd March, 1953.] 44°*5*. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 1 anna 6 pies. 


Prankrishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45 Masjid Bari Street, 
Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


24. Yamini Kanta Dev Goswami—aay¢ ভাগ্য পরীক্ষা 


[Avyartha Bhigya-Pariksé. Unfailing Test of Fortune. 
A pamphlet in fortune-telling, with chart and set 
questions with answers. Also contains direction for 
preserving health.}] Pages 3416. Published by the 
author, 4A Sahanagar Road, Kalighat, Calcutta. 
{4th March, 1953.] Double Crown I[6mo. 2nd edition. 
6 annas. 


Jyotirmay Chatterjec, Indra Directory Press, P. M. 
Bagchi and Co., Ltd., 38A Masjidbari Street, Calcutta. 
2,200 copies. 


flat edition not received. | 


Educational— 


25. Himansu Prakas Ray— 49 ciaete— 


[Galpe Saurajagat. An introduction to astronomy and 
astrology through atories about the sun and other stars 
and planeta, their respective size, particular distinguish- 
ing marks, distance from the earth, ete, Intended for 
Studentsa of classes V and VI.| Pages 5+3- 96. Pub- 
lished by the author, 206/1K Cornwallis Street, Cal- 
Cutta. 1963 A.D. [28th March. 1953.] Double 
Crown lémo. 2ndedition. Jllustrated. Rupec 1. 


Debendra Nath Bag, Brahma Mission Press, 21] 
Cornwallis Street, Culcutta. 1,000 copios. 


Bongall—Blography. 


26. Ahsanullah, (M.A.)}—2e7ty রবি হজরত যোহাশ্বদ--. 


{Ichlim Ravi Hajrat Mohimmad. Hazrat Moham- 
mad, the light of Islam. Contains biographical sketch 
of Prophet Mohammad showing miscellaneous trends 
therein.| Pages 128. Published by the printer, 
Knayat Nagar, P. O. Chandi, via Behala, 24-Parganas. 
[15th February, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist 
edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Rafiqul Hasan, “Koran Prachar’’ Press, 9 Meleod 
Strect, Calcutta, 2,200 copies. 


27, ----ঁইছ্লাষ রবি হজরত যোহাপ্মদ__ 


[Ichlim. Ravi Hajrat Mohammad. Hajrat Mohammad, 
the sun of Islam. Contains life-sketch of Prophet 
Mohammad.] Pages 128. Published by the printer, 
Enayat Nagar, P. O. Chandi, 24-Parganas. [15th 
February, 1953. Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Rafiqul Hasan, ‘Koran Prachar’’ Press, 9 Mcleod 
Street, Calcutta, 2,200 copies. 


28. Amiya Nath Sanyal— {eq অতলে--- 


[Smrtir Atale. Deep into the Memory. The book con- 
tains three articles in which the author records from his 
memory the extraordinary features of some eminent 


Indian singers, such as Moujuddin, Faij Kha 
and Kale Kha, and_ their proficiency in 
different branches of Indian classical songs 
which the author claims to have known due 


to his personal acquaintance with them.] Pages 
5+204. Published by Gaurisankar Bhattacherji, 10 
Shyama Charan Dey Street, Calcutta. 1359 88] or 
1952-53 A.D. [20th April, 1953.] Double Demy 16700. 
Ist edition. Rupees 4-8 annas. 


Mihir Kumar Mukherji, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


29. Binoy Kumar Gangopadhyaya—attieq ۶ج‎ 


[Maikel Madhusidan. Name ofa well-known Bengali 
writer. Contains biography of Michael Madhusudan.] 
Pages 48. Published by B. Dhar & Sons, Ltd., 
Ashutosh Library, 5 Bankim Chatterjee Strect, Cal- 
cutta. [4th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Revised edition. 2nd (reprint). 5 annas. 


P. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 Collego Square, 
Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


30. Brajendra Nath Banerjee— অধরলাস সেন, 


ক্ষেত্রপাল BETSY, যোগেশ্রনাথ চট্টোপাধ্যায় 

(Adharlal Sen, 15089615081] Chakravarti, Yogendranath 
Cattopadhyiiya. Contains lives of three Bengalee 
authors with illustrations from their works.] Pages 35. 
Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1 Upper 
Cireular Road, Calcutta. 1358 sal or 1951-52 A.D. 
[2176 February, 1952.] 7×5”. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 6&7 Indra 
Biswas Road, Caloutta. 750 copies. 


31. Brajendra Nath Banerjee— gf মুখোপাধ্যায়, 
ঠাকুরদা মুখোপাধ্যায-- 
[Bhuvan Candra Mukhopaidhyaya, Thikurdéis Mukho- 
pidhyaya. Names. Contains lives of Bhuban Chand- 
dra 11110107160 and Thakurdus Mukherjee with special 
reference to their literary contributions towards Bengali 
literature together with tho lists of their respective 
literary publications.] Pages 48. Published by Sanat 
Kumar uate, 243/1 Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 
1357 sal or, 1950-51 A.D. [24th October, 1951.] 
7° 5". Ist edition. Rupee ۰ 


Sajanikanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 67 Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


Bengali—Blography—contd. 


32. Brajendra Nath Banerjee _চতুষ্পাঠীর যুগে বিদৃঘী 
বঙ্গমহিলা, কষলাকান্ত বিব্যাপক্জার, লিপিতত্ব বিশারদ 
[08/6081)81) Yuge ৮1003 Bangamahilaé, Kamalikanta 
Vidyalankar, Lipitattvavisirad. Learned women of 
Bongal of the age of Chatuspathi (11019) and Kamala- 
kanta Vidyalankar, the expert in paleography. Con- 
tains lives of 3 learned women of Bengal of the age of 
Chatuspathi (705) and of one Kamala Kania Vidya- 
lankar, a well known expert in paleography.] Pages 26. 
Published by Sanat Kumar Cupta, 243/1 Upper Circular 
Road, Caloutta. 1358 581 or 1951-52 A.D. [23rd March, 
1952.) 7১66, Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 750 copics. 


33. —————-.._ দাযোদর যুখেপাধ্যায়, বিদ্যানন্প উমেশচন্ত্র বটব্যালঃ 
বিদ্যালক্কার শ্ীপচন্দ sata 
[Damodar Mukhopidhyadya, Vidyananda Umesécandra 
Vatavyal, ৮1095170058 Sriscandra Majumdar. Con- 
tains lives of 3 literary men of Bengal together with 
the lista of their respective literary publications.] 
Pages 48. Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 1357 sil or 1950-51 
A.D. [6th November, زا195‎ 27১65 Ist edition. 
Rupee 1. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


34. দীনেশচন্দ্র সেন। 141117 গনেশ দেউ্কব-__- 
[1)11764 Candra Sen, Sakharfim 08004 Deuskar. Tho 
names. Short life sketches of two eminent persons with 
the special mention of their valuable contributions 
towards Bengali literature.}] Pages 48+2+2. Published 
by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1 Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. 1358 ৪৪1 or 1951-52 A.D. [25th March, 
1952.) 7৯৮”, Ist edition. Rupee 1. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Caloutta. 750 copies. শাম 


35. গিরিশচন্দ্র سچآج‎ 


[Giris Candra Basu. A name. A short biographical 
sketch of Giris Chandra Bose, the foundor of Vangavashi 
College, with special reference to his literary contribu- 
tion towards Bengali literature.] Pages 43. Pub- 
lished by Sanat Kumar Gupta, Vangiya Sahitya 
Parisad, 243/1 Upper Circular Road. Calcutta. 1358 
sal or 1951-52 A.D. [13th May, 1952.) 7665, Ist 
edition. Rupee ۰ 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


36. ————.._ ললিতষকাব বঙ্দোপাধ্যা-_ 


[Lalit Kumar Vandyopaédhyaya. A name. A short 
biographical sketch of Lalit Kumar Banerjee together 
with a list of his literary publications.] Pages 32. 
Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1 Upper Cir- 
cular Road, Caleutta. 1358 sal or 1951-52 A.D. 
[10th December, 1952.) 77১55, Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


37, তি প্রযীর। নাগ, নিনপম। দেবী-- 


[Pramila Nig, Nirupama Devi. Short life sketches of 
Pramila Nag and Nirupama Devi, the two literary 
women together with few specimens of Pramila’s 
রি worka.| Pages 35. Published by Sanat 

umar Gupta, 243/1 Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 
1359sélor 1952-63A.D. [2nd January, 1953. 7 76, 
let edition. 8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Caluctta. 750 copies. 


TI—1958 
Bengali—Blography—conid, 


38. Brajendra Nath 80/091186--শিশিবক্যার ےلچن‎ 


(Sisir Kumar Ghos. A name. Contains a short sketch 
of his life together with the tribute in writing paid to his 
memory by honourable Tilak.] Pages 76. Published 
by Sanat Kumar Gupta. Bangiya Sahitya Parisad. 
1358 sil or 1961-52 A.D. [16th January, 1852. 7 7°x* 5", 
Ist edition. Rupee I, 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra Biswas 
Road, Belgachiya , Calcutta. 750 copies. 


39. ————. and Sajanikanta Das— 

ক।পটেন জেমূস Burts, ফেলিক্সা কেরী- 

[Kyapten Jems ہاحتروبخة‎ Feliks- Keri, The names. 
Contains short life sketches of two scholarly European 
persons who aro said to have been famous for their 
benevolent activities for Bengali people together with 
a brief account of their contribution towards Bengali 
literature.] Pages 57. Published by Sanat Kumar 
Gupta, 243/1 Upper Circular Road, Caloutta. 1358 sal 
or 1951-52 A.D. [15th March, 1952.) 767 ۷ 
edition. Rupee l. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


40. Dinesh Chandra Bhattacharjee—ayttt সেন, 
কবিরঞ্জন-_ 


[Ramprasad Sen, Kavirafijan. A name. Contains short 
biographical sketch of Ramprosad Sen, the well known 
Bengali 1১০৮ and devotee of goddess Kali together with 
illustrations from his works.] Pages 63. Published by 
Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1 Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. 1358 ৪81 or 1951-52 A.D. [30th June, 
1952.] 7“ .'٭5×‎ 186 edition. Rupee 1. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 67 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


41. Durgamohun Mukherjee—qgye সাথে পাঞ্জা 


[Mrtyur Séthe Paija. At Grip with Death. Contains 
short life sketches of 7 eminent scientists of different 
countries with special mention of their valuable con- 
tributions towards the development of medical science. 
Intended for juvenile readers.] Pages 89. Published 
by Suresh Chandra Dhar, 93/3/1 Baitakkhana Road, 
Calcutta. 1359 551 or 1952-53 A.D. [20th June, 1953.) 
Double crown 16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupee 
1-4 annas. 


Madhusudan Nag, Brindaban Dhar Printing House, 
93/3/1, Baitakkhana Road, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


42. Mrinal Sen—stf aortatfaa— 


[Carli. Cyaplin. Charlie Chaplin. Contains a short life 
of the outstanding figure in the American film world, 
and gives an account of the development of his art with 
reference to the more important film plays produced 
by him.] Pages 2-+145+8 plates. Published by 
Sailen Sen, Satabdi, 1-3A Paramahansa Dev Koad, 


Calcutta. 1360 sal or 1953-54 A.D. [8th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Jllustrated. ۵۴ 
2-8 annas. 


Abani Mohan Pal Chaudhuri, Jatiya Mudran, 77 
Dharmatala Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


43. নিগ্রো। বৈজ্ঞানিক ডক্টর ge ওয়াশংটন কাভা র-.. 
[Nigro Vaijninik Daktar Jarj 05841110621) Karbhar. 
Purports to be a Bengali translation of an abridged 
version of the original English work entitled “Dr. George 
Washington Carver’? dealing with the biography of & 
Nigro scientist of that name.] Abridged by Shirley 
Graham and George .نا‎ Lipscomb. Pages 146. Pub- 
lished by না) Sarker, 1۱4 Bankim Chatterjee Street, 


Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53A.D. [30th April, 
1953.] Double Crown 1680. Ist edition. (T.) 8 
annas. 


Gauri Sankar Ray Chowdhuri, Basusri Press, 80/6 
Grey Street, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


[1953 
Bengali—Biography—concld. 


44. Sanjay Ray—fayat যোগেশ চ্যাটাজী--- 

{Viplavi Yoges Cyatarji. Jogesh Chatterjee, the 
Revolutionist. A short life sketch of Jogesh Chatterjee, 
famous for his patriotic zeal and revolutionary acti- 
vities against British regimne.] Pages 1-+-28. Published 
by Amar Chowdhuri, 37 Hipon Street, Calcutta. 
1359 sil or, 1952-53 A.D. [12th April, 1953.] Double 
Crown J]6mo. Istedition. 2 annas. 


Debabrata Ruy, Kranti Press, 37 Ripon Street, 
Calcutta. 3,000 copies. 


45. Satyaprasad Sen Gupta—uater নদীব Sha— 
(Abhan Nadir Tire. On the bank of the river Avon. 
A short biography of William Shakespeare, the 
renowned dramatist of England. Throws light also on 
the development of his art and the circumstances under 
which some of his important works were written.] 
Pages 2+75. Published by the printer, 5 Sankar 
Ghosh Lane, Calcutta. 1360 sal or 1953-54 A.D. 
[6th June, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-4 annas. 

Sautendra Mitra, M.A., Bodhi Press, 5 Sankar Ghosh 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 

\ 


46. Turasankar Banerjee—fafta— 
[(Vicitra, Variogated. Contains reminiscences of some 
of his mysterious experiences which seemed to make 
him conscious of some peculiar and unexplorablo 
aspects of human psychology.] Page 118. Published 
by Gopaldas Majumdar, D. M. Library, 42 Cornwallis 
Street, Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [14th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 
Rupees 2. 

Ajit Mohan Gupta, Bharat Phototype Studio, 72-1 
College Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Bengali—Civics. 
Educational— 


47, Banerjee, A. C.—mcga গঠন-- 
[888৩7 Gathan. A book on Civics for the candidates 
for School Final Examination.} Pages 8-+104. Pub- 
lished by A. R. Mukherjee, 2 College Square, Calcutta. 
[25th April, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Revised 
edition. 14 annas. 

P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 10,200 copies. 


Bengali—Drama. 


48, Brajendra Kumar De, (M.A., B.T.)—aPt سی‎ 


[10887 Putra. Son of a female slave. A_ historical 
drama about Chandra Gupta Maurya who became 
king of Mayadha after dethroning king Nanda.] Pages 
2+190. Published by Amarendra Nath Das, 82 
Ahiritola Street, Calcutta. 1360 sal or 1953-54 A.D. 
[4th May, 1953.) Double Crown 16720. Ist edition. 
Rupees %. . 

Sagar Chandra Samanta, Tara Art Press , 82 Ahiritola 
Street, Culoutta. 2,000 copies. 


49. Brajendra Kumar De, (M.A., 3.1) লীশাবসান-_ 


[Lilivayin. End of the sport. A mythological drama 
depicting the destruction of the Yadu dynasty at the 
end of the Dvapara Age in consequence of a curso as 
Oarrated in the Mahabharata.] Pages 2+198. Pub- 
lished by Kanailal Sil, Diamond Library, 105 Upper 
Chitpur Road, Caleutta, 1359 sal or 1952-63 A.D. 
24th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16750, 2nd edition. 
Rupees 2. 


0. M, Ghosh, Chandra Mohan Printing Works, 14 
Nanda Lal Mallick Lane, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 

[18 edition noticed in 7 No. 53 at page 6 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ee June, 1930, 


Bengali—Drama—concid. 


50. Manmatha Ray—s-ap® নাটক-_ 


(Jivantai Natak. Life itself is a drama. A 
neglected wife of an actor of a threatre, joins the same 
theatre where her husband works, iu order to show her 
husband that a modern wife is no longer prepared to be 
treated like a slave and that she 600 has self-respect: and 
can live independently. When her husband remon- 
strates with her for her leaving her home, she points 
out to him her desire to live as a co-worker with him 
whereupon her husband comes to his senses and the 
two are reunited.) Pages 2+107+1. Published by 
printer, 203-1-1 Cornwallis Street, Culcut.a. 1952, 
[10th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Gobindapada Bhattacharyya, Bharatvarsha Printing 
Works, 203-1-1 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 
copies. 


51. Sachin Sen ৫০১৮৯--পথের দাবী- _ 


[Pather Davi. Right of way. A dramatised version 
of Sarat Chandra Chatterjee’s well-known work of that 
name, containing a story of the secret activities of the 
leader of a band of anarchists who gives expression to 
violent anti-British and anti-European sentiments and 
disdaining small reforms of society and administration 
wants to bring about a total subversion of the existing 
order of things.} Pages 7+120. Published by the 
printer 203-1-1 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. [lst 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupees 2. 


Govindapada Bhattacharyya, Bharatvarsha Printing 
Works, 203-1-1 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 
copies. 


52. Upendra Nath Ganguli—sia5 মঙ্গল--. 


[Bharat-Mangal. Auspicious India. A short drama 
for young people inspiring them with high ideals of life 
in the light of India’s new 80508 of independence. 
Also contains notations for the songs occurring in the 
drama.] Pages 70. Published by the printer, 57 
Indra Biswas Road, Belgatchia, Calcutta. 1358 sal or 
1951-52 A.D. [6th June, 1952.] Double Crown 16mo. 
18৮ edition. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Subal Chandra Banerjee, Saniranjan Press, 7 
Indra Biswas Road, Belgatchia, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Bengali—Fiction. 


53. আনন নঠ-_ 
[Anandamath. The Monastery of Bliss. An abridged 
edition of the well-known work of that name by 
Bankim Chandra Chatterjee.] Pages 1+-88. Published 
by Brindaban Dhar and Sons, Ltd, 5 Bankim 
Chatterjoo Strect, Calcutta. 1359 sil or 1952-53 AD. 
[2nd May, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. 2nd edition. Rupee |. 


Pares Nath Banerjee, Sr: Nara Sinha Press, 5 College 
Square , Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


54. Asalata Sinha—fecat পরে 


[Viyer Pare. After marriage. Story about a girl 
of a rich family who after her marriage with the young 
man of her choice becumes fed up with hfe under the 
atruined circumstances of her husband but soon 
modifies herself according to her husband's views when 
he gets a high position befitting her rich parentage. } 
Published by Subodh Chandra Majumdar, 24 Jhama- 
pukur Lane, Calcutta. 1953. [8th Muay, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16709. 80 edition (sic.). 


38. 0. Majumdar, Dev Press, 24 Jhamapukur Lane, 
Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


[18৮ edition noticed in entry No. 48 at page 5 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending December, 1950.] 


Bengall—Fictlon—contd. 


55. Asapurna Devi—afy পরীক্ষা 


[Agni-parikei. Fire-test. Story of a couple’s happy 
reunion showing how a girl of an aristocratic family, 
after being accidentally married in her childhood to the 
young grandson of a village zamindar, has to cut off all 
connections with her husband in submission to her 
aristocratic and overbearing mother who wants to 
marry her again. After many years a suitable young- 
man is found and when her mother insists on her engaye- 
ment she flies away to her grandmother in Benares 
in order to avoid him who is gradually attracting her 
in spite of her efforts to uphold the ideals of a Hindu 
wife. Later on it comes to light that the youngman 
is none but her husband who wanted to examine her in 
incognito before claiming her as his wife, and the two 
are happily reunited.] Pages 200. Published by 
Prafulla Kumar Basu, P. K. Basu and Co., Calcutta-31. 
1359 sil or 1952-53 A.D. [28th March, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupecs 3-8 annas. 


Prabodh Kumar Sinha, Mahananda Printing House, 
7 Schalch Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


56. Bankim Chandra Chattarji—ta কুগুলা-_ 


[Kapal-Kundal4. Name of a work. An unabridged 
edition of the author’s well-known work of the title.] 
Pages 8+142. Published by Bijay Ratna Basak, 

C. 0. Basak and Sons, 127 Masjid Bari Street, Calcutta. 
(29th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 


Rupees 2. 


Sudhir Chandra Ray, Basak Printing Works, 127 
Masjid Bari Street, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


57. Baren Basu—aztatze— 


[Mahaniyak. Great Leader. Story of the experiences 
of a clerk during his detention under police custody 
‘for seven days on his being suspected tobe a commu- 
امت‎ Pages 196. Published by Naren Mallik, Sadharan 
Publishers, 7 West Row, Calcutta. 1360 ৪] or 1953- 
54 A.D. [2nd May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


Prabodh Kumar Sinha, Mahananda Printing House, 
7 Schalch Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


58. Bibhuti Bhusan 710100)611090 সরস سوہ‎ 


[Saras Galpa. Pleasant stories. Contains a 
number of short humorous  stories.] Pages 17531 
Published by Bhanu Ray, 10 Shyama (77270 ne Street, 
Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D 129th April, 1953.) 


Lu, 6ا‎ Demy 16mo. 186 editior” Rupees را‎ ees 
3 ے ہف‎ : A" 
ماک یر چا ددم‎ hor yee, Prabhu Press, 30 Corn- 
wallis Street, ei a eon 1,100 copics. 


59. Birendra Kumar Gupta—gfa কোন দলে-- 


{Tumi Kon Dale? To which party do you belong? 
Contains a number of short storics intended for children, 
the firat of which lends its title to the book.] Pages 81. 
Published by Brindaban Dhar & Sons, Ltd., 5 Bankim 
Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1359 881 or 1952-53 A.D. 
[20th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 4th edition. 
IMlustrated. Rupee 1. 


Paresh Nath Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 Bang 
kim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


[ 3rd edition not received. 2nd edition noticed in entry 
No. 101 at page 8 of the Catalogue for the quarter 
ending June, 1945.] 


TI— 1953 
Bengall—Fiction—conid. 


60. Damodar Mukhopadhyay—watq নঙ্দিনী-- 


LNawab-Nandini. The Nawab’s Daughter. An_ his. 
torical novel the story being written in continuation to 
the story depicted in Bankim Chandra’s well-known 
creation “Durgoshnandini”. In this fiction some 
female characters of ‘“‘Durgeshnandini’’ have been 
further glorified and the historical period has been 
longthened to the final defeat of the Pathans by the 
Mughals.] Payes 128. Published by Subodh Chandra 
Majumdar, Dev-Sahitya Kutir, 22/62 Jhamapukur 
Lane, Calcutta. [22nd May, 1953.) Doublo Crown 
16 mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupee ]. 


S. 6. Majumdar, Dev-Press, 24 Jhamapukur Lano, 
Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


61. ডেসপারেট cafe— 
[Despiret 1011. Desparate Lady. A detective story.) 
Edited by Saurendra Mohan Mukherjee. Pages 162. 
Published by Subodh Chandra Majumdar, Dev-Sahitya 
Kutir, 22/5B Jhamapukur Lane, Calcutta. 1360 sil 
or 1953-54 A.D. [lst June, 1953.] 22“ ×32“ 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


S. C. Majumdar, Dev Press, 24 Jhamapukur Lane, 
Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


62. দেবী চৌধুরাণী-_ 


[Devi Caudhurini. An abridged version of Bankim 
Chandra Chatterjee’s well-known novel of that name.] 
Edited by Dhirendra Lal Dhar. Pages 102. Published 
by Prahlad Kumar Pramanik, 9 Shyama Charan De 
Street, Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [22nd 
March, 1953.] Double Crown 16700. Ist 91610]. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-12 annas. 


Tirtha Nath Paul, Navajiban Press, 
Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


63. ডোরিয়ান গ্রের ছবি-_ 
[Doriyin Grer Chavi. Picture of Dorian Gray. A 
Bengali rendering of the famous work of that name by 
Oscar Wilde, which was once considered in sume 
quarters as the author’s masterpieco reflecting his 
attitude towards the then social conditions, and con- 
taining taunting criticism of reckless life in high 
circles,] Translated by Bhabani Mukherjee. Pages 
296. Published by Sunil Das Gupta, Nava Bharati, 
5 Shyama Charan De Street, Calcutta. 1953. [16th 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. (1). 
Rupees 4-8 annas. 

Praphulla Kumar Basy. Printing House, 1285 
Vivekananda Ragi, Valcutta. 2,200 copies. 


66 Grey Street, 


৮৮ 1h pe 

64. দুর্গেশনলিনী--- 
[Durgednandini. The Daughter of the Chicftain of 
the Fort. An abridged version of Bankim Chandra 
Chatterjce’s wol!-known novel of that name.] Pages 116. 
Published by Brindaban Dhar and Sons, Ltd., 6 Bankim 
Chatterjce Street, Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53 AD. 
{18th March, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee ۰ 

Paresh Nath Banerjeo, Sri Narasingha Press, 6 Ban- 
kim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


65. Falguni 117101107100- সন্ধ্যারাগ-- 
[Sandhya Rag. The Evening Colours. A 0981 ও 
of a youngman of some promise who due to کم‎ 
poverty of the family undergoes much hardship 80 
soon dies of T.B. But the girl whom he loved remain 
ignorant of this catastrophe, resolves to lead & virgin 
life and takes up the ideal of serving the auffering 
humanity as her life’s mission.] Pages 14267. Pu 
lished by Sashindra Nath Ray, 99۸ Tarak 0000 
Road, Calcutta. 1369 sal or 1962-53 A.D. [? 
March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupees 4-8 annas. 

Gaur Chandra Paul, New Mahamaya Press, 65] 
College Street, Calcutta, 2,000 copies. 


[া--19638 
Bengali—Fictlon—conid. 


(Galpa Samkalan. Culling of Storios, A collection of 
ninco short stories written by throe writers, viz., 
Sukanta Kumar Haldar, Pranab Roy and Prabhas Basu. 
The stories portray different forms of sex urge as 
found in young, grown-up and old people, and attempt 
to show the evils of illicit love, free mixing, dissutis- 
fied as well as suppressed sex urge, self abuse, misuse 
of science in sexual matters, etc. eto.] Pages 143. 
Published by Sukanta Haldar, for Nara Nari Publishing 
Concern, 26/1 Sasi Bhushan De Street, Caloutta. 1948. 
(30th August, 1948.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-12 annas. 


Kali Sankar Bagchi, India Directory Press, 38A 
Masjid Bari Street, Calcutta. 1,100 cupies. 


67. Harinarayan Chattarji—s7ea— 


[Upakul. Coast. Story of a Burmeso girl who, in her 
disguat of cultured society due to her experience of 
two youngmen one of whom is considered to have 
behaved towards her insincerely and the other in- 
decently, takes a fancy for eccentric unsocial man 
deeply interested in the study of plant life.) Pages 163. 
Published by Bhanu Ray, Mitra and Ghosh, 10 Shyama 
Charan De Street, Calcutta. [28th May, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 2-12 annas. 


Phani Bhushan Hazra, Gupta Press, 37-7 Beniatola 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


68. Jatindra Nath 1318৬/9৪-_ _বিনোদিরীর ডায়েরী-_ 


(Binodinir Dayer!. Binodini'’s Diary. A story in 
which a woman, the onlv daughter of a selfish landlord, 
relates her life-history throughout all the ৪69০৪ of 
which she has been misunderstood and wronged, her 
physical beauty has been praised and exploited but her 
expectation given the least valuc.] Pages 344. Pub- 
lished by Brajondra Nath Biswas, 020 Hari Ghosh 
Street, Caloutta-6. 1953. (15th April, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 4. 


Gouri Sankar Roy Chowdhury, Basusrce Press, 
8016 Grey 3৮০০৮, Culcuttu. 1,100 copies. 


69. Jnanendra Mohan Bauarji—=atati— 


[Apalip. Travesty. Story showing how obsorvance 
of overstrict orthodoxy ruins the life of a Hindu girl 
who is unable to marry her lover for social reasons, 
later on has a slip for which she is put in a “home” for 
sheltering fallen girls, and ultimately gets deranged.] 
Pages 299. Published by Sunil Kumar Banerjee, M.A., 
24 Gopal Bancrjeo Street, Caloutta. [Ist April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition, Rupees 4. 


Subodh Chandra Mandal, Kalpana Press, Ltd. 
9 Shibnarain Das Lane, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


10. কপালকৃগুলা-_ 
[Kapil Kundala. The name of tho heroine of a story 
۲ Bankim Chandra. Well-known story of that name 
by Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, abridged for childron.] 
ited by Brindaban Dhar and Sons, Ltd., Calcutta. 


1953, [6th May, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Ist 
edition, 


PN. Banerjec, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 Bankim 
(Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


71. Khagondranath Mitra—efeeta @xca— 


(Aphrikar Jafigale, In the forosta of Africa. A story 
+1 4dventurgy for children containing descriptions 
the birds and beasts living in tho forosts of 
fries. Said to have heen originally published in the 
'gazine entitled “Sishu-Suthi’’.] Pages 104, Published 


Bengali—Fictlon—conid. 


by B. Dhar and Sons, Ltd., Ashutosh Library, 
5 Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. [7th May, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 13th edition. JUustrated. 
Rupee 1-4 annas. 


1১. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 College Square, 
Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


{12th edition noticed in entry No. 54 at page 6 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter onding September, 1950.] 


72. মা--্যাক্সিযম গোকী দ্বিতীয় ভাগ--- 


[Ma—Myaksim Gorki Dvitiya Bhiyg. Mothor ہا‎ 
Maxim Gorky. Part 11. A Bengali translation of the 
novel of that name throwing ٭‎ sidelight on the revo- 
lutionary movement in Tsarist Russia.) Translated 
by Nripendra Krishna Chatterjee. Pages 24-254. 
Published by Ashutosh Ghose, 11 College Square, 
Calcutta. 1359 sil or 1952-53 A.D. [16th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 6th edition. (T) . Rupeos 2-12 
annas, 


Khriode Chandra Paul, New Saraswati Press, 17 
Bhim Ghose Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


[3rd edition noticed in entry No. 94 at pago 8 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1945.] 


73. Manab Banarji, Nandadulal Ghosh, Himadri 
Sekhar Basu, and Asim Bhattacharyya—tta কলষ--- 


[08 Kalam. Four Pens. A collection of short stories 
written by the four writers.) Pages 4+119. Pub- 
lished by Prabodh Kumar Ghosh, 8-9 Russa Road, 
Calcutta. 1359 8৪] or 1952-53 A.D. [3rd April, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupves 2. 


Nirmalendu Roy Chaudhury, Roy Chaudhury 
Printing Home, 1 Huzuri Mal Lane, Calcutta. 500 
copies. 


74. Manilal Banorji—afraia surat প্রথম ভাগ-_ 


[Manilal Granthivall. Pratham Bhig. Works of 
Manilal. Yol. I. This volume contains stories 
entitled ‘‘Aparajiti’’, ‘“Mahiyasi’,  ‘Rajkany&”, 


“SutkeSer Upikhyin’’, “Narir-Rip”’ and ‘“Gokhro”’ and 
an article ontitled “Kiaégidhime Saratcandra’’.] Pages 
340. Published by the printer, Basumati Sihitya 
Mandir, 166 Bowbazar Street, Calcutta. [15thJune, 
1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


Sasibhusan Datta, Basumati Press, 166 Bowbazar 
Streot, Calcutta. 2,600 copies. 


75. নুপেন্রক,ঝের yetaq— 


[Nrpendra Krgner Granthivali. Works of Nripendra 
Krishna Chatterjee. Contains Bengali rendering of a few 
well-known works by foreign anuthors, viz., “Kruotzer 
Sonata’’ by Tolstoy under tho title لا“‎ yuger Abhisup”’, 
“Batoyala’’ by Renno Maran under the title “Erao 
Manus”, “Le Silence de la Mar’’ by Verakars under 
the title “Katha Kao’’, ‘Mother’? by Maxim Gorky 
under the title “Ma’’, “Karl and Anna’’ by Herr Leo- 
nard Frank under the same title, together with another 
work entitled “Cakra O Cakranta’’ which gives more 
or less an account of the struggle for supremacy between 
Trotsky and Stalin ending with the former's death.] 
Pages 358. Published by the printer, Basumati Sahitya 
Mandir, 166 Bowbazar Strect, Calcutta. 1959 sal or 
1952-53 A.D. {20th April, 1953.) Royal 8vo. Ist 
edition. (T.). Rupees 3. 


Sasi Bhusan Datta, Basumati Proas, 166 Bowbazar 
Stroot, Caloutta, 2,500 copies, 


Bengali—Fietion—conid. 


76. পিংনাশিয়া-_- 
[Pinosiyi. Bengali rendering of the story book, 
Pinnochio ( Translated by Amiya Kumar Chakrahorty- 
Pages 80. Published by Namita Chakraborty, 24B 
Lake Road, Calcutta. [16th May, 1953.] Double 
Foolscap 8৮০. Ist edition. IUustrated. Rupev 1-8 annas. 


P. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 Bankim 
Chatterjee Strect, Caloutta. 2,200 copies. 


77. Prabhat Kumar Mukharjee—yete sara মুখো- 


পাধায়েব crs سچقا؟‎ 

[Prabhat Kumar Mukhopidhydyer Sregtha Galpa. 
Best Stories of Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee. Contains 
fifteen short stories together with an introduction by 
the editor discussing the merits of the stories and the 
literary art of the writer as revealed in them.] Edited 
by Prof. Jagadish Bhattacharyya. Payes 22+5-+288. 
Published by Sachindra Nath Mukherjee, Bengal 
Publishers, 14 Bankim Chatterjee Strect, Calcutta. 
1360 881 or 1953-54 A.D. [13th April, 1953] Royal 
12170. Ist edition. Rupees 5. 


Mihir Kumar Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


78. Prabodh Kumar Sanyal—goy— সিডি 
[Tuccha. Insignificant. A realistic story about the 
chequered and sorrowful life of a boy of a decaying 
family.] Pages 176. Published by Bhanu Roy, Mitra 
and Ghosh, 10 Shama Charan De Street, Calcutta. 
1360 sal or 1953-54. A.D. [6th May, 1953.) Double Crown 
16200. Ist edition. Rupees 3-8 annas. 


Prabhat Chandra Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, Ltd., 
§ Chintamani Das Lane, Caloutta. 2,200 copios. 


79. Pramatha Nath Bishi—saq fra— 

[Calan-Bil. Name of a lake. The third and conclud- 
ing volume of a story narrated in a series. named 
Joré-Dighir-Caudhuri Puribar. This volume depicts 
activities and ultimate death of a ruined and dispos- 
sessed zamindar who chooses to take up his abode at 
“Chalan-Bil’’, a vast stretch of inland water in Bengal, 
between the districts of Rajshahi and Fabna, once 
very notorious for its bandits and outlaws, where in an 
attempt to avenge his enemy he tries to infuse into his 
little motherless son, a spirit of retaliation and at 
the same time endeavours to combat the outlaw menace 
by reclaiming the watery waste so that it might be 
turned into a place of residence of peaceful persons. ] 
Pages 14275. Published by Gouri Sankar Bhatta- 
cherjee, 10 Syama Charan De Street, Calcutta. [6th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo 2nd __ 91610, 
Rupees 4-8 annas. 


Prafulla Kumar Bose, The Printing House, 124B 
Vivekananda Road, Calcutta. 300 copies. 


[lat edition noticed in entry No. 107 at page 11 of the 
catalogue for the quarter ending September, 1949.) 


80. Pramode Kuma: Chattorjoo— অতীত স্বপন-_ 


(Atit Svapan. Past Dream. Stories ubout social and 
political life and activities of the Koyal family of 
Mauryya dynasty during the reign of Chandragupta, 
based on historical ovents, depicting Chanakya as the 
cuntral figure singly guiding all political, social and even 
personal affairs that concern the well being efficient 
administration and prestige of the State. 01084785088 
unqualified statesmanship, his sharp and accurate 
realisation of sucial affairs, big or small, bring overyhody 
under his moral subjugation and everybody including 
the king is scen working as ho is wanted to work by the 
overwhelming intellect of Chanakya who apywars to be 
the guiding force behind all the glory and high degree 
of civilisation that the reign of Ohandragupta may 


TI—1953. 


Bengall—Fiction—contd. 


claim]. Pages 4+267. Published by Pralhad Kumar 
Pramanik, 9 Shyama Charan De Stroot, Caloutta-12. 
Baisékh 1360 881. (10th April, 1953]. Double Domy 
16mo. Ist odition. 11116775182. Rupuos 5. 


Prabhat Chandra Roy, Sri Gouranga Press Ltd., 
5 Chintamoni Das Lane, Caleutia-9. 1,100 cops, 


81. “Pra No Bi.” —z2agy রাম etre 


[11917801961 Rim Phasudo. Highminded Ram _ tho 
strangler. A satirical story hinting at tho so-called 
prosent conditions of the society alleged to be rampant 
with debocing tendencics like grovd, fraud, insincerity, 
hypocrisy, selfishness, etc., in every sphero of life, a 
picture of which is depicted to have been forsven about 
one hundred and fifty years ago under magic influnoe, 
by an intelligent and learned Brahmin who at firat gained 
much notoriety as an arch-strangler and then when 
conditions of the country changed under British rule, 
chose the growing city of Calcutta as the oontre of his 
nefarious activities and designed to vitiate every sphere 
of socioty by subtle and intelligent meana.] Pages 105. 
Published by Bhanu Roy, Mitra and Ghosh, 10 Shyama 
Charan Do Street, Caleutta. [9th April, 1953.) Double 
Crown 16mo. 18 edition. Rupovs 2-4. 


Upendra Nath Roy, Mirbahar Press, 37A College Row, 
Calcutta, 1,100 copies. 


82. Praphulla Kumar Sarkar—a2as}— 


[Bhrasta-lagna. One who has missed tho auspicious 
moment. Story of a youngman who in his urge for 
serving his country, leaves his newly marriod beautiful 
wifo and thereafter lives a life of privation for long years 
braving all sorts of sufferings. Once, however, he seoms 
to lose aolf-contro] when he gets attracted by the 
ravishing hoauty of the wife of one of his co-worker but 
is saved from tho slip and is united with his long neglected 
wife. Incidentally also gives an idea of tho sorrows and 
disappointmonts of the revolutionarios due to the 
problems and difficulties in thoir path.] Pages 1+186. 
Published by Surosh Chandra Majumdar, 5 Chintamani 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 1359 881 or 1952-53 A.D. [6th 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 1620. 2nd_ edition. 
Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Prabhat Chandra Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 140, 
5 Chintamani Das Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copios. 


[18৮ edition not received.] 


83. Premendra 11107 -তুন খবর-_ 


[Natun Khabar. New Information. Story about 4 
paper of the above title, run with avowed principle of 
championing the causo of tho poor and the suffering 
masses. The paper once falls in the danger of bemg 
bought over by a rich financier and shrewed businvssman 
but oscapes the disaster through timoly activities of 8 
woll-wishors.] Pages 153. Published by Prasanta 
Kumar Sinha, Book Emporium, Ltd., 22-1 Cornwallis 
Struet, Calcutta. 1350 sil or 1952-53 A.D. [15th 
April, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. 2nd _ odition. 
Rupees 2-8 48۰ 


Prafulla Kumar Basu, Printing House, 124C Viveka- 
nanda Ruad, Caloutta. 1,100 copios. 


[Ist edition noticed in entry No. 60 at page 6 of 
the Catalogue for the quartor onding March, 1948.] 


{f-— 1053, 
Bongall Pletlén—conid. 


س۔ہیوں ہا )19019 .84 


[Asamlagna. Incoherent. A story of psychological 
struggle showing how a dissatisfied and much agitated 
wife of an I.C.S. Officer accidentally meets at an evening 
party, an old friend of her husband, takes him in hor 
confidence and tries to find relief by relating to him hor 
sufferings due to the apparent negloct of her husband who 
sooms to have bocome an enigma to her for his morbid 
mentality as also for his inexplicable dislike for his 
environment. She is not aware how much upset his mind 
has hecome due to the vicious and corrupt atmosphere 
prevailing among Government officials and Ministry and 
is also not aware that he feols prick of conscience in 
holding service under new Government and that he has 
been shocked at the manner in which his father much 
rogarded for his uprightness, gives up his high idoals 
under sheer pressure of changed conditions. Sho also 
relates her suspicion about her husband’s connection 
with another woman as he has been staying out for 
longer hours in the night, and asks his listener to help her 
in dotecting the soducer. Their joint offort, howovor, 
brings them a pleasant surprise when they find the 
truant husband in deep meditations in a templo as he 
has recontly been trying to find solace in spiritual 
ondeavours.] Pagos 190. Publishod by Sachindia Nath 
Mukherjoe, Bengal Publishors, 14, Bankim Chatterjee 
Street, Calcutta. 1359 ৪81 or 1952-53 A.D. [8th April, 
1953.) Double Crown 16710. 6 edition. 
Rupees 3-8 annas. 


Prabhat Chandra Ray, Sri Gauranga Press, Ltd., 
5, Chintamani Das Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


85. Sadhana Mitra—ererg}— 


(Jayajayanti. Name of a musical tune. Contains six 
short stories, the last of which lends its title to the book.] 
Pages 1+117. Published by Supriya Sarkar, for M. C. 
Sarkar and Sons, 14, Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 
[lst May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 18۵ edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Kunda Bhushan Bhaduri, Parichay Pross, 8B, Dina- 
bandhu Lano, Caloutta. 500 copies. 


86. Santosh Kumar Ghosh—étraatb— 


[Cinemati. China clay. Contains a number of short 
stories the firat of which lends its title to the book.) 
Pages 162. Published by Gauri Sankar Bhattacharyya. 
Mitralaya, 10, Shama Charan De Street, Calcutta. 
(27th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 
Rupeos 3. 


Prabodh Kumar Sinha, Mahananda Printing House, 
7, Schaleh Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


87. Sarvvahara—ar পশ- 


[Narir Prasna. Woman’s Question. A girl of a rich 
family who hates marriage and is un onergetic workor 
of a female association strivirg for establishment of 
women’s rights, ultimately marrios an oducated person 
desirous of living a single life and devoted to social 
Service. Incidontaly containg discussion on probloma 
relating to women.}] Pagos 148. Publishod by Printers 
and Publishers, Press and Literature, Ltd., 8, Old Post 
Offics Street, Caloutta, [14th April 1953.] Double Crown 
100. 1st edition. Rupeos 3-8 annas. 


K. Chowdhury, Press and Literature, Ltd., 8, Old 
Post Office Street Calcutta. 1,00 copies 


88 Sasadhar Datta—gwa মোহন__ 
(Durjay Mohan. Unoon querable Mohan. A story about 
® activities of a detective Mohan by name.] Pages 
164. Published by tho Printer, Sisir Publishing House, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. [Ist April, 1953] 
Uble Crown 16mo. lat edition. Rupees 2. 


Nisir Kutinar Mitra, B.A., Sisir Kumar Mitra, 22.1, 
Mwallis Stroot, Caloutta. 1,100 copies. 


Bongall Fletion—contd. 


89. Sasadhar 2)8/৮৮-- মোহন ও মানরসিংহ--. 


{Mohan 0 Mansinha. Mohan and Mansinha. A detecti- 
ve story about the activities of Mohan, a detective.] 
Pages 184, Published by Sisir Kumar Mitra, B.A., 
Sisr Publishing House, 22-1, Cornwallis Street, Cal- 
cutta. [20th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16100. 
Int odition. Rupees 2. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, 3.A., Sisir Printing Works, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


000 ——. যোহন ও وا‎ 
[Mohan 0 21968101778, Mohan and tho ghost. A story 
about the activities of a detective named Mohan.] 
Pages 150. Published by the printer, Sisir Publishing 
House, 22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. (28th March, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Istedition. Rupees 2. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, B.A., Suir Printing Works, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


91, টান আত Ta কবলে CAE 
[Mrta Dasyur Kavale Mohan. Moban in the grip of a 
dead robbor. A dotoctivo story about tho activities of 
the detective Mohan.] Pages 144. Published by 
Sisir Kumar, Mitra, B.A., Sisir Publishing House, 22-1, 
Cornwallis Streot, Calcutta. (31st March, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupecs 2. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, B.A., Sisir Printing Works, 22-1, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


92. ————._ ##tfo— 

[Pragati. Progress. Shows how the sons and daughters 
of a rich Bengali businessman ultimately realise the 
folly of their vain and sonsless imitation of the 
so-called progressive manners of the West in their 
contempt for the ideals of their own society, when they 
come to grief.] Pages 179. Published by the printer, 
Sisir Publishing House, 22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 
[21st March. 1953.] Double Crown 1009. Ist edition. 
Rupees 3. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, B.A., Sisir Printing Works, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


93. ————. স্বপন বিলার পৰ — 


(Svapan Milir Parva. The Svapan and Milar Episode. 
A detective story.] Pages 144. Published by the 
printer, 22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. [28th March 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Istedition. Rupees 2. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra B.A., Sisir Printing Works, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


94. Sourindra Mohan Mukherjeo—aq_ বিপুব-_. 


[Vadhii Viplab. Bride’s distress. A detective story 
showing how an English girl is freed from a chargvo of 
murder, obtains a divorce from her weak-minded hus- 
band and marries hor lover.] Pages 128. Published 
by the printer, 22-1, Cornwallis Stroot, Caloutta. [19th 
March, 1953.] Doublo Crown 16mo. 18۵ edition. 
Rupee 1-12 annas. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, B.A., Sisir Printing Works, 
22-1, Cornwallis Streot, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


95. Sisir Kumar Mitra (B.A.)}—#*m— 


(Bephas. Indecont. A numbor of short stories the 
first of which lends its title to the book.] Pages 24-136. 
Published by tho printer, Sisir Publishing House, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Caloutta. [16th March, 1953.] 
Double Crown .ہ16‎ Ist edition. Rupeo 1-12 annas. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, B.A., Sisir Printing Works, 
22-1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


10 
Bengali Fletion—contd, 


96. Subodh Chandra Majumdar—az ও বাহির- _. 


[41067 O Bahir. Interior and Exterior. Story of tho 
sufferings of a promising boy with an introspectivo 
mind, who shows an indomitable spirit in fighting for 
his country’s independeno in the face of all oppression, 
insult and imprisonment which hinder his education.] 
Pages 128. Publishod by Kalidas Ghosh, ‘Jijnasa’’ 
133A Rashbehari Avenue, Calcutta. 1359 sal or 
1952-53 A.D. [6th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupees 2. 

Santiranjan De, Shri Lachmi Press, 56-3 Nimtala 
Ghat Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


97. Sudhindra Nath Raha—tren দি এপ স্যান-__ 


{Tarjan Thi Ep Myan. Tarzan The Ape Man. An 
adventurous story of a foreign novel told in simple 
Bengali for children.] Published by Subodh Chandra 
Majumdar, 24 Jhamapukur Lane, Calcutta. 1953. 
{25th June, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 


S. 0. Majumdar, Dov Press, 24, Jaamapukur Lane, 
Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


98. Sudhi Ranjan Mukherji—a® رج‎ ভৃষি-_ 
(Ei Martya Bhimi. This Mundane Earth. A_ novel.] 
Published by Supriya Sarkar, 1953. [18th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 


Praphulla Kumar Bose, The Printing House, 1248, 
Vivekananda Road, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


99. Sumatha Nath Ghosh—frtcsz ডাক--- 


(Diganter Dak. Call of the horizon. Story of the 
unhappy lifo of a Bengali girl, who in her disgust of 
her loving husband of ای‎ moans for his inability to 
give hor the comforts of high life, trios to divort herself 
in the company of other men and thus ultimately finds 
herself in such an awkward situation that she tries to 
comm suicide in shame. Timely medical help pre- 
vents her death and she lives to see that her husband 
has gone mad due to the shock he has received from 
her inconsiderate activities.} Pages 178. Published 
by Haraihan Chandra, Bimala Ranjan Prakasan, 
45 Kali Dutt Streot, Calcutta. [20th April, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 2-8 annas, 


Upendra Nath Ray, Mirbahar Press, 37A, College 
Row, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


100. Swapan [01007 অরিশ্পমের আবিভাব-__ 
[Arindamer Abirbhiv. Advent of Arindam. A 
detective story.} Pages 115. Published by Lakshmi 
Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper Chitpur Road, 
Calcutta. 1359 لق‎ or 1952-53 A.D. [28th February, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupee 
1-8 annas. 

Purna Chandra De, Lakshmi Printing Works, 370, 
Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


101. ہم سس‎ দিশ্রিজরী অরিন্দম 
(Digvijayi Arindam. Arindam the conqueror of all tho 
quarters. A detective story.] Pages 126. Published 
by Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370 Upper Chitpur 
Road, Calcutta. 1360 sal or 1953-54 A.D. [16th 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 

Purna Chandra De, Lakshmi Printing Works, 370, 
Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


102, —————.._ গভীর রাতের কানা 
[09070 Rater Kanna. Weeping in the dead of night. 
A detective story.] Pages 47. Published by Ramnath 
Das, 82, Ahiritola Strect, Calcutta. [156 May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo, Ist edition. 6 annas. 

Sagar Chandra Samanta, Tara Art Press, 82, Ahiritola 
Street, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


TX 1059, 
Bengall Fletlen—conéd, 


103. Swapan Kumar— জালিয়াতের ক1রসা্জী-_. 


[Jaliyéter Karsaji. Trick of the Counterfeiter. A 
detective story.] Pages 48. Published by Ramnath 
Das, 82, Ahiritola Street, Calcutta. [lst May, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16mo, Ist edition, 6 annas. 


Sagar Chandra Samanta, Tara Art Press, 82 Ahiritola 
Street, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


104. Tarapada Raha—cathera جج‎ 


(Chotader Grim. Grim for children. A Collection of 
a few stories intended for children.] Pages 32. Pub. 
lished by Brindaban Dhar and Sons, Ltd. 5, Bankim 
Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1359 88] or 1952-53 A.D. 
{2lst March, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. 3rd edition, 
IUustrated. 8 annas. 


Sri Narasinha Press, 5, Bankim Chatterjee Street, 
Calcutta. 1,000 copics. 


[1st edition noticed in the entry No. 148 at page 14 
of the catalogue for the quarter ending September, 1949.) 


105. Tara Sankar Banerji—etcatty নিকেতন-_- 


[Arogya-Niketan. House of cure. Depicts the life of 
a village Kaviraj who once much respected as a medical, 
man of rare merits, calmly watches how the advancing 
medical science of the modern age slowly and inevitably 
displaces his own Ayurvedic system of medicine.] 
Pages 406. Published by Sachindra Nath Mukherjee, 
Bengal Publishers, 14, Bankim Chatterjee Street, 
Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [13th April, 1953.] 
Imperial 16mo. Ist edition. Rupes 6. 


Ajit Mohan Datta, Bharat Phototype Studio, 72-1, 
College Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


106. Upendranath Maitreya—reonj— 


[Raktapadma. Red Lotus, A love story in which & 
young man of puritan ideas leaves homo in fear of his 
much respected elder brother who wanted to get him 
married but falls in love with a girl abroad and finally 
marries her with the help of the same elder brother at 
a time when he felt himself frustrated by not being able 
to materialise the matrimonial relation.] Pages 12-128. 
Published by Nupur Maitreya, 4/3, Madan Dutta Lane, 
Bowbazar. 1359 ৪81 or 1952-53 A.D. [14th May, 1963.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


Debendranath Bag, Brahmo Mission Press, 211, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,000 dopies. 


Educational— 


107. Benoy Kumar Gangopadhyaya—cetbeva আলাদিন__ 


[Cotader Aladin. Contains the well-known story 
Aladdin and the Lamp for the students of class 11.) 
Pages 36. Published by Brindaban Dhar and Sons, 
Ltd., 5, Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. [26th 
March, 1969.] Imperial 16mo. 3rd 06916101) 
Iliustrated. 8 annas, 


P. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 Bankim 
Chatterji Street, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


108. ———-._ ছোটদের আলিবাবা. 


[Cotador-Alibab&. Contains the story of Alibaba ond 
the forty thieves. Intended for the students of class 11. 
Free from compound letters.} Pages 32. Published by 
Brindaban Dhar and Sons, Ltd., 5, College Square, Cal- 
cutta. [26th May, 1963.) Imperial I6mo. 40 
edition. Illustrated. ৪ annas. 


P. N. Banerjee, Sri Narsinha Press, 6, College Street, 
Calcutta, 2,000 copies. 


{I~ 1958, 
Bengali fetlen~-concld. 


Rducational—coneld. 
109. Promghanananda, 98101 রামকৃষের গল্প-. 


(Ramktener Galpa. Contains a number of stories intend- 
ed as a supplementary Reader for class V of H. E. 
& M. E. Schools.) Pages 124+84. Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8C Ramanath Mazumder 
Street, Calcutta. 1359 ৪81 or 1052-53 A.D. [13th 
March, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. 6th _ edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mahendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


110. রাজপুত ও মারাঠা-_ 


[Rajput O Marathi. The Rajputs and the Marathas’ 
An abridged version of well-known works of Ramesh 
Chandra Dutta, entitled Maharastra Jiban Sandhya and 
Rajput Jiban Pravat. Intended au a rapid reader for 
classes VII and VIII of High Schools.] Pages 8+ 96. 
Published by Dwijendra Nath Dhar, 15 Bankim 
Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1350 ৪51 or 1952-453 A.D. 
(11th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mahendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 6,500 copies. 


Bengali—Games and Sports. 


111. লক্ষী রেসিং গাইড-_ 
[Lakgmi Resim 0810. Lakshmi Racing Guide. Cal- 
cutta Spring Meeting. Sixth Day. Saturday. 7th 
March, 1953. Contains race tips.) Pages 13. Pub- 
lished by A. P. Agarwalla, 370 Upper Chitpur Road, 
Calcutta. [7th March, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 186 edition. 
6 annas. 


P. C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, 
Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


112, ہے‎ Summer Meeting. First Day. 
Wednesday. llth March, 1953. Pages 27. [Lith 


March, 1953.) Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 6 annas. 


P.C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 650 copies. 


113. لے‎ Second Day. Saturday. 14th 
March, 1953. «Pages 28. [14th March, 1953.] Demy 
18050. Ist edition. 6 antias. 


P. C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


114. . Third Day. Saturday, 218৮ 
March, 1953. Pagos 32. [2196 March, 1953.]- Demy 
16700, Ist edition. 6 annas. 


P.C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Caloutta. 500 copies. 


115. Fourth Day. Saturday, 28th 
March, 1953. Pages 32. [28th March, 1953.) Demy 
l6mo. Ist edition. 6 annas. - 


PC. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


Bengali—Geography. 
Edneational— 


16, Sudhir Knumar Ghose (M.A.\—ortte পরিচয়-- 
[Bhigol Paricay, Geography intended for students of 
a V.] Pages 44140. Publishod by Dwijendra Nath 

har, 15 Bankim Chatterjee Strect, Calcutta. 1952-53 
odits [2nd March, 1953.| Doublo Crown 16mo. 2nd 

Rupee 1-4 annas.‏ 61ن 


yor besh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 1 
ohendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 16,500 copies. 


ii 


engall—Geagraphy—coneld, 


117. Upendra Nath Ray, (M.A,, B.T.) and Surendra 
Kumar Chakravorty, (134১০. শভারত ও Greq— 


[Bharat O Bhiimandal. A Geography intended for the 
students of classes VII to X.] Pages 21241211374, 
Published by Jatindra Nath Ray, Eastern Publishers 
Syndicate, Ltd., 8C, Ramanath Mazumdar Streot, 
Calcutta. 1952 A.D. [7th March, 1953.] 2232”. 
25th edition. Illustrated. Rupees 4. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 1 
Mohendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 13,500 copies. 


Bengali—Health and Hygiene. 


118. Amiya Jiban Mukherji—f. বি. থেকে সারবার سوہ‎ 


(Ti .1ط‎ Theke Sarbar Par. After being cured of Tuber- 
culosis. Discusses problems which a person just cured] 
of tuberculosis is likely to face in his future life parti- 
cularly in respect of his economic conditions and 
family as well as social relations, and shows how with 
proper precaution and with the sympathetic co-opera- 
tion of his family and society, he may again become 
an earning and useful member of the society by taking 
up @ suitable occupation without the possibility of a 
relapse.] Pages 10+104. Published by Sukanta 
Kumar Haldar, Nara Nari Publishing concern, 26-1, 
Sasi Bhushan De Street, Calcutta. 1357 sil or 1950-51 
A.D. [10th Phalgun, 1357 B.8.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupees 2. 


Kali Sankar Bagchi, India Directory Press, 38A, 
Masjid Bari Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Educational— 


119, Jitendra Chandra Mukherjee (M.Sc.) and Mrinal 
Kanti Mukherjee (M.B.)—=atwy বিজ্ঞানের #¢}— 


[Svasthya-Vijfiiner Kathé. Hygiene intended for 
upils of class VITI.] Pages 75. Published by S. 
anorjee, 1/1/1C, College Square, Calcutta. 1952-53 
A.D. [5th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. ا8‎ 
edition. Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallick, Bani Presa, 16 
Hemendra Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,200 copies. 


120. Kalicharan Choudhury (8103. শরীর ও স্বাশ্বা-_ 


Sarir O Svasthya. Part I. A book on health and 
fhygiene. Intended for the students of class IT accord- 
ing to Basic Training syllabur.} Pages 51. Published 
by Sourindra Nath Chandra, Student Library, Khagra, 
Murshidabad. [9th June, 1953.} Double Crown 16mo. 
lst edition. Illustrated. 10 annas. 


Madhusudan Nag, Brindabon Dhar Printing House, 
93/3/1, Baitakkhana Road, Calcutta. 3,300 copics. 


121. ————.._ শরীর ও স্বাস্থ 


Sarir O 95880708. Part II. A book on health and 
hygiene. Intended for the students of claases 111 and 
IV according to Basico Training syllabus.] Pager 67. 
Published by Sourindra Nath Chandra, 5)۷ 
Library, Khagra, Murshidabad. [15th June, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. JWustrated 14 annas. 
Madhusudan Nag, Brindaban Dhar Printing House, 
93/3/1, Baithakkhana Road, Calcutta. 3,300 copies. 


122. Ramesh Chandra Ray, Dr. (L.M.S.) and Radha 
Raman Ray Dr. (M.B.)—aibecrta হাইঘীন-_ 
[Myatriculesan Haijin. Intended for the studenta of 
School Final Examination.}] Pages 383. Published by 
Bholanath Ray, 203/1, Harrison Road, Calcutta. 
(17th April, 1953.) Imperial size, Mth edition. 
Illustrated. Rupecs 3-12 annas. 


Ghour Chandra Paul, New Mahamaya Pross, 65/7 
College Street, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


ip 
Bongall—Health and Hyglene—coneld., 


Educational— 


123. Santosh Kumar: Mukherjee—taaq শ্বাস্বা frarr— 


[Saral Svasthya Vijfian. A book on Health and 
Hygiene, Intended for Secondary Schools.) Pages 4-++ 
87. Published by A. R. Mukherjee, 2, College Square, 
Calcutta. (18th April, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. 
Revised edition. Illustrated. 12 annas. 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 5,200 copies. 


Bengali—History. 


124. Bhupendra Nath 0৮০৮০ ج٣.‎ রাজনীতিক 
ইতিহাস-_. 
[Aprakaésita Rajnitik Itihis. Unpublished Political 
History. Gives an account of the activities of the 
Indian revolutionaries in different foreign countries 
during and after the Ist war, for freeing India from the 
British Rule. Also contains a few appendices giving 
further information about revolutionaries and their 
activities in Bengal, Northern and Western India, 
Bihar, America, Russia, ete. The book is also said 
to be a sequel to or second volume of the author’s earlier 
work entitled ‘“‘Bharater Dvitiya Svadhinata San- 

m].’’ Pages 9+353. Published by Mritytnjay 

ha, Navabharat Publishers, 153-1, Radha Bazar 
Street, Calcutta. 1953. [25th April, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. New edition. Rupees 4-8 annas. 


Paramananda Sinha Ray, Srikali Press, 67, Sitaram 
Ghosh Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


125. Birendra Kumar Basu, [{M.A., 1.0.8. (Retired).} 
--প্রাচীন ইতিহাস পরিচয়-_ 


[Pracin 1008৭ Paricay. Introduction to ancient his- 
tory. Said to contain articles covering ancient history 
of Egypt, Greece, Asia Minor and Persia. Also contains 
translation of the writings of Homer and Euripedes and 
a few ancient maps.] Pages 3+114. Published by 
Sures Chandra Das, M.A., General Printers and 
Publishers, Ltd., 119, Dharmatala Street, Calcutta. 
1360 sal or 1953-54 A.D. [15th June, 1953.] Demy 
8vo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupees 3. 


Sures Chandra Das, M.A., Abinas Press, 119, Dhar- 
matala Street, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


126. Brajendra Nath Baneriee—etata ain— 


(Jahan Ara. A Name. Gives an historical account of 
Jahanara, the eldest daughter of Shajahan, who by 
virtue of her superior qualities achieved distinction in 
the palace and incidentally describes the story of civil 
war among the sons of Shajahan for the possession of 
the throne.] Pages 14110. Published by Ranjan 
Kumar Das, 57, Indra Biswas Road, Calcutta. 1358 
sil or 1951-52 A.D. [2190 September, 1952. [1 7° x5’. 
3rd edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


[2nd edition noticed in entry No. 104 at page 10 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending September 1926.] 


127. Brajendranath Banerjee—caitta পাঠান 


(Mogal Pathan. The Mughals and the Pathans. Con- 
tains a number of stories based upon the historical 
episodes about the Mughals and the Pathans in India. 
Designed for the juvenile readers.) Pages 6-+-1-+-130. 
Published by Ranjan Kumar Das, 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 1358 ৪5] or 1951-52 A.D. [10th 
September, 1952. [1 7১6, Ist edition. Jlustrated. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


1. 1088, 
Bongall—History—voncld, 


128, Tapan Mohan Chattarji—statft سج‎ 


[Palasir Yuddha. Battle of Plassey. An account of 
the battle of Plassey and the circumstances which led 
to it.) Incidentally dwells on the rise of the British 
power in India, the ground development of Calcutta 
as also the social and economic effects of the English 
victory at Plassey on Bengal.] Pages 14196. Pub. 
lished by Saurendra Nath Basu, Navana, 47, Ganes 
Chandra Avenue, Caloutta. 1953. [16th April, 1953.) 
Demy 8vo. Ist edition. Jilustrated. Rupees 4. 


Gopal Chandra Ray, Navana Printing Works, Ltd., 
47, Ganes Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. 2,100 copies. 


Educational— 


129. Jyotiprabha Das 9010৮ কিশোর ইতিহাস--- 


[Kiéor Itihas. Early history of India from the days 
of primitive society down to the reign of Husen Sah 
in Bengal. Intended for the pupils of class IV.] Pages 
1+-1+109. Published by Khiti Nath Chatterjee, The 
City Book Company, 15, Bankim Chatterjee Strect, 
Calcutta. (14th March, 1953.] 1/16th of 22” x32", 
Ist edition. Jllustruted. Rupee 1-4 annas. 

Upendra Nath Ray, Mirbahar Press, 37A, College 
Row, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


130. Jyotish Chandra 7১৪0- পাথবিক ইতিহাস-_ 


[Prithamik Itihis, History of India from the days of 
Babar, the first Mughal Emperor down to the partition 
of India in 1947.] Pages 17104. Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8C, Ramanath Majumder 
Street, Calcutta. [16th March, 1953.] 22” x 82ؤ‎ 
16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. 14 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, .کا‎ P. Basu Printing Works, 1], 
Mohendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 7,500 copics. 


131. Surya Kumar 1381)9716০ আমাদের ইতিহাস-_ 


[Amdder Itihis. Contains a fow historical events of 
[0018] Pages 64. Published by tho author, Banerjce 
Publisher, Agarpara, 24-Parganas. [28th May, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. JIJuUustrated. 12 
87788, 


Madhusudhan Nag, Brindaban Dhar Printing House, 
93/3/1, Baithakhana Road, Calcutta-9. , 4,200 copics. 


Bengali— Language. 
132. Balendra Nath Tagore—acrm গৃশ্থাবলী-_- 


[Balendra Granthaibalf. Works of Balendra Nath 
Tagore.” Contains miszcellanewus poems, stories and 
essays on different topics by the author which are 
claimed to have been previously published in periodicals 
at different times.] Edited by Brajendra ۴ 
and Sajani Kanta Das. Pages 13+615. Published 
by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1, Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. 1359 sil or 1952-53 A.D. [Ist March, 1953.] 
10’x 73”. Ist edition. Jllustrated. Rupees 12- 
annas. 

Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indré 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


133. Rabindra Nath Tagoro—*tota সাহিত্য ۱ 
(Pracin Sahitya. Ancient Literature. Contains oritical 
essays on certain ancient works. ] ae 95. 7৪) 
lished by Pulin Behari Sen, 6/3, Dwaraka Nath Thakur 
Lane, Calcutta. 1369 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [20th May, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo, Reprint (3rd). Rupe? 
1-4 annas. 

Debendra Nath Bag, Brahma Mission Press, 211, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 3,100 copies. 

[18৮ edition noticed in entry No. 162 at page 19 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending September 1034৭ 


[1--19639, 
Bengali—Language—conid. 


1 
[1001086101)81--- 


134. রামমোহন গুম্থাবলী (৭ম খণ্-_গোঁড়ীয় ব্যাকরণ)-- 
(Rammohon  Granthivali. (7ma Khanda—Gaudiya 
Vyikaran. The works of Rammohan, (Part ৮1177 
Bengali Grammar). Purports to be a Bengali version 
of Raja Rammohan Roy's original English work on 
Bengali grammar. The Bengali rendering is said to 
have been done by the Raja himeelf.] Edited by Brajen- 
dra Nath Banarji and Sajani Kanta Das. Pages 74. Pub- 
lished by Sanatkumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya-Parishat, 
Caloutta. 1359 sil or 1952-53 A.D. [2186 August, 
1052. [ 107 × 6%". Ist edition. Rupee 1-12 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


135. Bankim Chandra Chakravarti—#% paa— 


{Katha Cayan. A Bengali reader in prose and verse 
intended for pupils of classes II and III.] Pages 48. 
Published by Pashupati Chatterjee, 98/2, Upper Cir- 
cular Road, Calcutta. 1952-53A.D. [15th March, 
1953.) 5“ × 7". Ist edition. 10 annas. 


Prankrishna Paul, Shashi Press, 45, Masjid Bar! 
Street, Calcutta. 1,200 copies. 


136. Bankim Chandra 000900591৮1 কথ! চয়ন-_ 


(Katha-Cayan. A Bengali primer for classes IT and III, 
in accordance with the basic training syllabus.) Pages 
2+48. Published by Pasupati Chatterjee, Pasupati 
Book Depot, 98-2, Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. [10th 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 10 annas. 


Pran Krishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45, Masjid Bari 
Street, Calcutta, 1,200 copies. 


137. Bibhuti Chowdhury—ts সংকলন বোধিনী--- 


[Pitha Samkalan-Vodhinil. A help book for the 
candidates of School Final Examination.] Pages 550+ 
67. Published by Dhirendra Mohan Ray, 217, Corn- 
wallis Street, Calcutta. (15th April, 1953.) Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 3-8 annas. 


Surya Narayan Bhattacharjee, Tapasi Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


138. ছোটদের yea ভাগ-_ 
(Chotader 00181031788. A Bengali primer intended 
for beginners.) Edited by Dhirendra Lal Dhar. 
Pages 54. Published by Brindaban Dhar and Sons, 
Lid., 5, Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1952-53 
A.D. [8rd March, 1953.] Double Foolscap 3th. 
6th edition. Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Paresh Nath Banerjee, Sri Nara Sinha Press, 5, 
Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


139, De, A. O.—Bengali Made Easy for 1954.— 


[A help-book intended for candidates for School Final 
Examination.) Pages 2+154+128. Published by 
the author and A. Raichoudhuri, 99A, Surendra Nath 
Banorjee Road, Calcutta. 1962-53 A.D. [20th April, 
1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 3 


8S. B. Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra Sen Street, 
Calcutta. 4,000 copies. : 


140. Manila] Banarji—a থেকে ভাল-_ 


(Manda Theke .حلقحاظ‎ Good from Evil. Contains 
short life sketches of a few eminent personages of India 
and abroad who developed outstanding qualities and 

he famous in later life although they showed littlo 
90189 in their childhood.] Pages 37-80. Published 
7 Sumatha Nath Ghosh, Mitra and Ghosh, 10, Shama 
105 rin De Street, Calcutta. 1969. [22nd February 
14 at Double Crown 16mo. 4th edition. Illustrated. 

8৪, 


Upendra Nath Ray, Mirbahar Press, 37A, College 
¥, Calcutta, 1,100 copies. 


[30 edition not-received.] 


13 
Bengall—Language—conid. 


Educational— 


141, Notes on পাঠ সন্ধলন। School Final Bengali 
Selections (1955). 


[Intended for School Final candidates for 1955.] Pages 
532. Published by Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8০, 
Ramanath Mazumdar Streot, Caloutta. [14th March, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist cdition, Rupees 
3-8 annas, 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 18,500 copies. 


142. Radhashyam Bagchi—fte রচনা. 


(Sisu Racand. An elementary Bengali grammar and 
composition intended for classes 111 and IV.] Pages, 
4-++-133. Published by Sourendra Nath Chandra, Khagra, 
Murshidabad. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [2nd June, 
1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. 
Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Madhusudan Nag, Brindaban Dhar Printing House, 
93/3/1, Baithakhana Road, Calcutta. 3,300 copies. 


143. Ramesh Chandra De and Aruna De (B.A.)}— 


বুলবুল প্রথম তাগ--- 

(Bul Bul. Part I. A Bengali primer in prose and verse 
intended for beginners.] Pages 32. Published by 
Aruna De, 38/2/1, Ramtanu Bose Lane, Calcutta 
[8rd April, 1953.] Double Crown ৪৮০, 2nd edition. 
Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Debendra Nath Bag, Brahma Mission Pross, 211, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


144, Sarat Kumar Ray and Ashoke Nath Bhatta- 
charjee, Sastri—aq— 


[Arghya. A Bengali reader in prose and verse intended 
for pupils of class VII.} Pages 4+124. Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8C, Ramanath Mazumdar 
Street, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D, [13th March, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 8th edition. Illustrated. Rupoo 
۶ 


Tridibesh Basu, K.P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Goswami Lano, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


145. Upendra Nath 10৮5 আদশ সঙ্গত সুধ। দ্বিতীয় ভাগ-_ 


[Adaréa Sandarbha Sudha. Part .لا‎ A_ Bengali 
reader in prose and pvetry intended for students of 
classes VI and VII.] Pages 27106. Published by 
Abanindra Nath Das, 256A, Biswas Nursery Lane, 
Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. ([l4th-May, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. 19th edition. IJlustrated. 13 annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemondra 
Sen Street, Caloutta. 5,000 copies. 


146. -_--- আদর্শ atte an প্রথম Stt— 

[Adaréa Suniti Sudha. Part I. A Bongali reader in 
prose and verse intended for students of classes IIT and 
IV.] Pages 2+80. Published by Abanindra Nath Das 
for Upendra Nath Das and Sons, 2613, Biswas Nursery 
Lane, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. [13th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 13th edition. JUustrated. 10 
annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


14 
Bengall—Language—concld. 


Educational— 
147, Upendra Nath Das—cath খুকুর নীতিসুধা-_- 


[10008 Khukur Niti Sudhé. A Bongali reader in prose 
and poetry intended for pupils of class II.] Pages 1+-38. 
Published by Abanindra Nath Das, 25A, Biswas Nursery 
Lane, Calcutta. [13th May, 19631. [1 Double Foolscap 
80. 4th edition. Jllustruted. 12 annas. 

Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


148. নব নীতি সুধা । চতুর্থ ভাগ-_ 


(Naba Niti 98008, Part IV. A Bengali reader in 
rose and poetry intended for the students of classes 
V and V.] Pages 2+164. Published by Abanindra 
Nath Das for Upendra Nath Das and Sons. (22nd May, 
1953.] Imperial 16790. 16th edition. llustrated. 
Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


149. ——. ہچ‎ tS 9۸۱ চতুর্থ ভাগ-_ 


[(Nitan Suniti Sudhé. Part IV. A Bengali reade? 
in prose and poetry intended for pupils of class IV of 
Secondary schools and Madrassahs in Assam.] Pages 
2+112. Published by Abanindra Nath Das for Upendra 
Nath Das and Sons. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [19th 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 16100. 2nd __ edition. 
Illustrated. 14 annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 15, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


150. wag সাহিত্য ۱ ۹٣ ভাগ-_ 


(Saral Sahitya Sudha. Part I. A Bengali reader 
in prose and Bey intended for the pupils of class V 
of H. E. and M. E. Schools.] Pages 4+1-++80. Pub- 
lished by Abanindra Nath Das for Upendra Nath Das 
and Sons. 1369 sal or 1952-53 A.D, ([20t# May, 1953.] 
Imperial 16mo. 5th edition. Illustrated. 11 annas, 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


161. . [Part II. Intended for the pupils 
of class V1 of H. E. and M. E. Schools.] Pages 4+2-+4 
100. [16th May, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. 5th edition. 
IUustrated. 14 annas. 

Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 13,000.copies. 


152, সরস সাহিত্য AN, ATI ভাগ-_ 


[Sara] Sahitya Sudha. Part I. A Bengali reader in 
prose and poctrv intended for students of class V of 
H. E. and M. E. Schools and class VI of schools in 
Orissa.] Pages 6480. Published by Abanindra Nath 
Das, 25A, Biswas Nursery Lane, Calcutta. [3rd June, 
19583. [ Double Crown 16mo. 6th edition. Illustrated. 
11 annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


153. স্থনীতি সুধা, চতুধ Stt— 


[80101 Sudha. Part IV. A Bengali reader in prose 
and verse intended for pupils of classes ITI and IV,] 
Pages 2+1+4-128. Published by Abanindra Nath Das, 
1 Biswas Nursery Lane, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. 
[19th May, 1953.] Imperial 
Illustrated. Rupee 1. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


1600 5th edition, 


TI—1953, 
Bengali—Mathematics. 


Educational— 


164. Dova Prasad Ghose—fty গণিত পৃথম ভাগ-_. 


[9188 Ganit. Part 1. Arithmetic intended for class 1] 
Pages 4-+60. Published by Jitendra Nath Mukherjeo, 
80, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. 1350 ৪] 
or 1952-53 A.D. [13th March, 1953.] Double Crown 
lémo. 14th edition. JUustrated. 10 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 1], 
Mohendra Goswami Lane, Calcutta. 3,300 copies. 


155. Gopal Chandra Ghose and Bibhuti Bhusan 
11815081- নবীন জ্যামিতি 


[Navin Jyaémiti. Geometry intended for pupils 
of class VI.] Pages 2190. Published by Paran 
Chandra Mondal. 64, Harrison Road, Calcutta, [12th 
May, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo,. Ist edition. 41119. 
trated. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Khirode Chandra Pan, New Saraswati Press, 16, 
Bhim Ghose Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


156. Madhusudan 1)6৮._-বুনিয়াদী ধারাপাত--- 


[Vuniyidl Dharipét. A Bengali arithmetical table 
for class I of primary schools.] Pages 58. Published 
by Nirod Chandra Majumder, 65, Cornwallis Street, 
Calcutta. [25th June, 1953.] 1/16 mo. 22” x 30’. 
Ist edition. JWustrated. 5 annas. 


Nirod Chandra Majumder, B. P. M.’s Press, 22/5, 
Jhamapukur Lane, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


157. Rajani Kanta Ghoso.—#fae 4 বেশ 


[Ganit PrabeS. Arithmetic intended for class 
II.} Pages 1+80. Published by Biman Kumar 
Chatterjee, 23, Wellington Street, Calcutta. 1952-53 
A.D. [28th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16110, 
Ist edition. 14 annas. 


Gaur Chandra Paul, New Mahamaya Press, 65/7, 
College Street, Calcutta. 3,000 copies. 


Bengali—Medicine. 


158. Amiya Jiban Mukherjoe—crah যখন টি, বি-_ 


(Rogtaé Yakhan Ti Bi. When the disease T. B. 
A treatise on tuberculosis dwelling on various topic 
relating to the disease, e.g., the causes of its infection 
and spread, treatment especially the sanatorioum 
method, nursing, diet, preventive measures, ماہ‎ ( 
Published by Sukanta Kumar Haldar, Calcutta. 1903. 
[28th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16700. 2nd edition. 


Haripada Patra, Sutyanarayan Press, 160, Masjidbari 
Strect, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


[18৮ edition noticed in entry No. 437 at page 49 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1951.] 


159. Rudrendra Kumar 1৮1 শারীরবৃত্ত-_ 


[Sarirvrtta. Physiology. Structure of the body, 
different organisms and systems of the body and 0001 
respective functions have been dealt with precisely 
Pages 14657. Published by Pulin Behari Se™ 
Biswabharati, 6/3, Dwarakanath Thakur Lane, Cal 
cutta. 1359 ৪8]. [20th March, 1953.] Double Crowt 
16700. Ist edition. Illustrated. 8 Annas. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukhopadhyay, Santiniketan Pre8, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 2,100 copies. 


Ii—1953. 
Bengall—Miscellaneous. 


160. Ajayendu Narayan Ray.—a)— 


(M&. Mother. Ashort biographical sketch of author's 
mother, Gouri Dovi, incidentally throwing light on 
various aspects of life in Jemo Raj family.] Pages 68+- 
14. Published by Rabindra Nath Mazumdar, Bor- 
hampur. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A.D. [13th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. 

Rabindra Nath Majumdar, Bundhab Press, Murshi- 
dabad. 500 copies. 


161. আমাদের লেখা--- 


(Amador 10108. Our Writings. Contains some 
sketches and writings in prose and verse contributed 
by boys and girls of Path Bhavan, Santiniketan.] 
Edited by Amiya Kumar Sen. Pages 56. Pub- 
lished by Kshitish Roy, Santiniketan. 1 Li Baiéakh, 
1360 sil. [13th April, 1953.] Ist edition. Jlluwastrated. 
Rupee ۰ 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjeo, 


Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketon, Birbhum. 550 copies. 


162. Brajendra Nath Banerjee—ara সাময়িক--পত্র 
দ্বিতীয় ¢o— 
[38718 S&mayik-Patra-Dvitiya Khanda. Bengali 


periodicals. Part II. This part gives brief infor- 
mation about various Bengali periodicals issued in 
Bengal during the poriod from April, 1868 to 1900 (or 
12756-1307 B.S.). Also contains an appendix giving 
information of certain periodicals in languages other 
than Bengali, issued during the period concerned and 
another appendix containing an alphabetical list of 
the periodicals mentioned in the work.] Pages 1-+108. 
Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, Bangiya Sahitya 
Parishat, 243-1, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. [1359 
৪8] or 1952-53 A.D. [Ashadh, 1359 B.8.] Royal 8vo. 
2nd edition (enlarged). Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 


Biswas Road, Calcutta. 487 copies. 
[186 edition not-received.] 


163. চিঠিপত্রে মমাঅচিত্র--দ্বিতীয় ¢o— 


[Cithi-patre Samiaj-Citra—Dvitiya Khanda. Social 
picture in correspondence. Part II. Contains in all 
632 old documenta of which 450 have been reproduced 
from the Visva Bharati Collection and the remaining 
182 have been reproduced from different outside sources, 
The documents appear to throw light on the social, 
educational, religious conditions as also on business 
economic, legal and other affairs of old Bengal. Also 
contains an appendix and a glossary.) Edited by 
Panchanan Mandal, M.A. Published by the printer, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 1359 s&l or 1952-63 A.D. 
ae May, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rupeos 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjec,- Santiniketan Presa, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 600 copies. 


164. এ gota সাহিতা-_ 


[E Yuger Sahitya. Litorsture of this ago, A list of 
publications of the National Book Agency, Ltd, to- 
eether with the namos of the authors and prices of the 
Publications .] Pages 16, Publishod by Suron Datta, 
ational Book Agency, Ltd., 12, Bankim Chatterjee 
Street, Caloutta. [Int May, 1953.] Double Crown 
Sino, Ist edition. 


Bunil Kundagrami, Ganasakti Pross, 33, Alimuddin 
ne, Caloutta, 5,000 copies.] 


15 
Bengali— Miscelianeous—conid. 
165. Ghani, 0.—yfeeafa— 


|Pratidhvani, Echo. A number of Satirical articles 
with different hoadings, grouped toygother with apparent 
intention of croating a rational outluok towards — the 
teachings of Islium.] Paves 4742. Published by 
Lutfullah, Katagarh Burdwan. [7th April, 1953৭ 
Double Crown 16mo 186 edition. 


Prabhat Chandra Roy, Sri Gauranga Press, Ltd,. 
5, Chintamani Das Lane, Caloutta. 1,000 copies. 


166. Haripada Korani—.tetsta— 


(Sa-Jahan. (Emporor) Sahjahan. A ° colloction of 
short articles written in appreciation of literary ability 
of poet Rabindranath Tagore as manifested in some 
of his novols and pooms togethor with a pocmn entitled 
“Rajkanya’’ at the 0100] Pages 48. Published by 
Rameswar De, Chandornugore. [15th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16000. 186 edition. 


Prabhatchandra Roy, Sri Gauranga Pros 14, 
5, Chintamani Das Lane, Calcutta. 200 cupics. 


167. Jogesh Chandra 
পথে 1— 
[Kon Pathe? On which Path? Contains eight ossays 
discussing social and educational topics, formerly 
published in different Bongali periodicals.) Pages 
2+185. Published by the printer, for Gurudas Chatterjee 
and Sons, 203/1/1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 
[20th April, 1963.] Double Crown 16116. 186 edition. 


Ray, Vidyanidhi—cety 


Rupoes 2-8 annas. 

Gobinda Pada Bhattacharyya, Bharatvarsha Prin- 
ting Works, 203/1/1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 
1,100 copios, 


168. Kalapencha.—.+mi4 চার নক্‌ শা. 


[10818176987 048, Tho sketchos of Black 0%], 
Contains a number of short stories depicting mainly 
the various aspects of life in Calcutta, in a satirical 
fashion.] Pages 64226. Published by Saktikumar 
Bhaduri, 24/2, Mohanbagan Row, Calcutta. 1357 ail 
or, 1950-51 A.D. [17th December, 1951.] 9°x5}". 
Ist edition Illustrated. Rupoos 5. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Pross, 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Caloutta. 1,150 copies. 


160, কেন আহি atata attics ভানবালি-- 


{Kena Ami Amar Svimiko Bhilavasi. Why do I 
love my husband. A collection of articlos submitted 
by various women for a competition on tho subject, 
giving reasons as to why they love their husbands.] 
Edited by Nirendra Gupta and Sm. Bani Haldar. 
Pages 8+0. Published by Sukanta Haldar, Nara- 
Nari Publishing Concern, 26-1, Sasibhushan De Stroot, 


(1096৮, 1368 sil or 1951-52A.D., [4th Vaisakh, 
1369 B.S.] Imperial I6mo. 2nd edition. Rupoos 
2-8 alnas. 


Kali Sankar Bagchi, India Directory Press, 38-A, 
Maajid Bari Street, Caloutta, 2,200 copies. 


[Ist edition not-received.] 


16 
Bengali—Miscelianeous—conid. 


170. নববর্থ--- 


{[Navavarsa. New Year. A collection of stories, pooms, 
dramatic-sketches, essays, 96০.) penned by different 
Bengali writers.] Edited by Hari Ganguli. Pages 
24-148. Published by the Editor, 19, Nur Mahaminad 
Lane, Calcutta. [7th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8৮০, 
Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Satyaprasanna Dutta, Purvasa, Ltd., P13, Ganesh 
Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. 500 copios. 


171 নির্দেশ (পথম We )— 


(Nirdeé (Pratham Khanda). Direction (Part I). Con- 
tains a few moral instructions given by Sri Sri Balak 
Brahmachari, a religious person of noto.] Compiled 
and edited by Ajit Bhattacharyya and Santi Das 
Majumdar. Pagos 3+1+24. Published by Joges 
Chandra Biswas, Sangraha-tattva Publishers, 46, Bhu- 
pendra Basu Avenue, Calcutta. 1360 Sal or 1953-54 
A.D. [30th May, 1953.] Crown 16710. Ist edition, 


Rupee ٠ 
Deva Prasad Mitra Elm Press, 63, Boadon Street, 
Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


172. প'চকড়ি বশোপাধ্যায়ের রচনাবনী ( দ্বিতীয় খণ্ড) 


[Pickadi Bandyopaidhyayer 20785%]7 (Dvitiya 
Khanda). Writings of Panchkadi Banerji—(Part If). A 
collection of some of the articles written by the well- 
known Bongali writer Panchkari Banerji (1866- 
1923 A.D.) reprinted from different Bengali periodicals. ] 
Edited by Brajendra Nath Banerji and Sajanikanta Das, 
Pages 3424-402. Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 
Bangiya Sahitya Parishad, 243/1, Upper Circular 
Road, Calcutta. 1358 Sal or 1951-62 A.D. [20th 
August, 1951.] 10°x6}". Ist edition. Rupees 6. 


Sajanikanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Belgatchia, Calcutta. 750 copics. 


(Part I noticed in entry No. 163 at page 1৮5 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending June, 1951.] 


173. Rajnarain Bose—™ কাল আর এ কাল-_ 


(Se kal ar E kal. The past and the presont. A 
recorded version of a speech delivered before the 
National Council in which the author deals with 
various aspects of social and religious life of Bongali 
people and seeks to show how with the advent of 
English culture the whole structure of our society has 
undergone a great change.] Edited by Brajendra 
Nath Banerjee and Sajani Kanta Das. Pages 8+ 96. 
Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 243/1, Upper Cir- 
cular Road, Calcutta. 1357 Sal or 1950-51A.D. 
[28th September, 1951.] 71১৫6”, Ist (Parisad) odition. 


Rupee 1. 
Sajanikanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 67, Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


[2nd edition noticed in entry No. 285 ut 
page 22 of the Cataloguo for the quarter ending Sep- 
tember, 1879.] 


174. বর্থবাণী-_- 


[Varsavani. Message of the year. Contains a collec- 
tion of stories, essays, pooms, etc., penned by different 
Bengali writers.) Edited by Begum Jahan Ara Khan. 
Pages 278. Published by A. Choudhury, 9B, Lord 
Sinha Road, Calcutta. [20th Sept., 1952.) Double 
Crown 8vo. Ist edition. IJilustrated. Rupees 3. 


5. P. Datta, Purvasa Ltd., P13, Ganesh Chandra 
Avenuo, Calcutta. 1,100 copies, 


TI— 1958, 


Bengali—Miscellaneous—concid, 
Educational— 
175, Charu) Chandra Choudhury—atqa বিজ্ঞান | 


দ্বিতীয় ভাগ--. 


[Jiian 51010, 10510981558, (Part IJ.) Intended for 

the students of Class ৮.] Puges 6+96+10. Published 

by D. C. Bose, 10, College Square, Calcutta. [7th April, 

Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 111%560/60.‏ ےر 
annas,‏ 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5, Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


170 আ্ানবার কথা. 


[81187 Kathé. Contains 12100086170 and useful in. 
formation for students of classes IJI-VJI.] Compiled 
by Pasupati Chatterjoo, Kavya-vinod. Pagos 474 
Published by Sisir Kumar Chatterjee, Pasupati Book 
Depot, 98/2, Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. [7th 
2 1953.] Double Crown 16190. 8th edition. Rupes 


Pran Krishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45, Masjid Bari Street, 
Caloutta. 2,200 copies. 


177. Pasupati Chattorji—fis পত্র দালিল-_ 


[Cithi-patra-Dalil. Contains instruction for writing 
letters and documents. Intended for students of classes 
11 and II.) Pages 62. Published by Sisir Kumar 
Chatterjee, Pasupati Book Depot, 98/2, Upper Chitpur 
Road, Calcutta. [10th May, 1953.) Double Crown 
16700, 5th edition. 10 8121), 


Pran Krishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45, Masjid Bari Street, 
Calcutta. 1,250 copies. 


178. জানবার কথা-_. 


[80587 Kathé. A book of Goneral Knowledge 164۰ 
ed for the pupils of classes 111, IV, Vand VI.] Pages 
80. Published by Sisir Kumar Chatterjee, 98/2, 
Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. [26th March, 1969] 
5’x 7". Ist edition, Rupee 1. 


Pran Krishna Pal, Sashi Press, 45, Masjid Bari 
Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies, 


179. qm সঙ্গীত স্বরলিপি । দ্বিতীয় te— 


[Brahma-Sangit-Svaralipi. Dvitiya Khanda. Notations 
of songs about Brahma (Supreme-being), Part II. Con- 
tains a number of songs with their notations.] Edi 
by Ramesh Chandra Banerjee. Pages 57. Published 
by Nanibhusan Dasgupta, 210/6, Cornwallis Street, 
Calcutta. [29th March, 1953.) Double Crown 8vo. 
Ist edition. Rupecs 2. 

Debendranath Bag, The Brahmo Mission Press, 211, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


(Part I noticed in ontry No. 401 at page 34 of the 
Catalogue fur the quarter ending September, 1952.) 


TI—-1953. 
Bengall—Musie—concld. 


180. Rajani Kanta Sen—a7}-— 


[Vani. Message, Contains a number of songs on 
miscellaneous topics.] Pages 6-+111. Published by 
the printer, for Gurudas 00790601199 und Sons, 203/1/1, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952-53A D. 
(26th April, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. 27th edi- 
tion. Rupees 2, 


Govindapada Bhattacharyya, Bharatvarsha Print- 
ing Works, 203/1/1, Cornwallis Stroet, Calcutta. 
1,100 copies, 


[2nd edition noticed in entry No. 488 at page 15 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending June, 1906.] 


181. Rajeswar Mitra—atata সঙ্গীত (প্রাচীন যুগ). 


(Bamlar Sangit (Pracin Yug). Music of Bengal (An- 
cient age). Tries to present a history of the vocal and 
instrumental music of ancient Bengal, through dis- 
cussion of the different forms of music and musical 
instruments considered to have been prevalent in 
Bengal in ancient times.] Pages 3+118+2. Published 
by Tamas Banerji, 6-A, Shamacharan De Street, 
Caloutta. [10th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
lst edition. JUlustrated. Rupees 3. 


Mihir Kumar Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2, Nyaya- 
18609 Lane, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


182. Ramen Chaudhury—cottry te4— 


[Bhorer Bakul. Bakul flower of dawn. Songs of 
different tunes with musical notations.) Pages 62. 
Published by Mihir Kumar Mukherjee, 3, Malanga Lane, 
Calcutta-1. 1953. [16th May, 1953.] Double Crown 
8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 2. 


Anil Kumar Ray, Art Union Printing Works, 80/15, 
Grey Street, Cal-6. 1,100 copies. 


183. Sudipta Kumar Bhattacharyya—retra— 


(Sangitayan. The Way to Music. A collection of 
songs with their notations. Intended for children.] 
Pages 2+24. Published by Aruna Devi, Sangitayan 
Prakasani, 19A, Jamir Lane, Buallygunge, Calcutta. 
[6th May, 1953.] Doublo Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Devendranath Shil, Sreekrishna Printing Works, 
2), Grey Street, Calcutta, 1,000 copies. 


184. ্বয়বিতান অষ্টবিংশ খণ্ড-.. 


ই Astaviméa Khanda. The elaboration 
tune. Part 28. Miscellaneous songs of Rabindra 
ath Tagore with notations.) Edited by Rabindré 

দা Tagore. Pages 48+Cover. Published by Pulin 
att Sen, Visva-Bharati, 6/3, Dwarkanath Tagore 

at Caloutta. (20th March, 1953.] Double Crown 

ও Ist edition, Rupees 2. 


opal Chandra Roy, Navana Printing Works, 47, 
9 Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. 200 copies. 


Pan part noticed in entry No. 181 at page 18 of the 
989৪ for the quarter ending September 1952.) 


17 
Bengali—Philosophy. 


185. Jyotischandra Banerji—art ۴۳۳ জন লক--- 


[Darsanik Jan Lak. John Locke, the Philosopher. 
Gives a synopsis of the philosophical, political and 
educational views of John Locke, the British philogo- 
pher, together with criticism and a short biographical 
account. With a foreword by Atul Chandra Gupta.] 
Pages 15+78. Published by Amiyaranjan Mukhariji, 
2, College Square, Calcutta. 1360 Sal or 1953-54 A.D, 
(18th May, 1863. [ Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Prabhat Chandra Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, Ltd., 
5, Chintamani Das Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies, 


186. Rames Das, (8১:০1) শিশু پچ‎ 


(Sisu-Man. Child-Mind. A treatise on child-psy- 
chology.] Pages 3+4-+111. Published by Jnanendra 
Prasad Sinha, M.A., 44-0۸, Hazra Road, Calcutta. 1952. 
{18th April, 1952.] 7x5’. Ist edition. Rupees 2-4 
annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Belgachhia, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


Bengali—Poetry. 


187. Amarkumar 1096৮ যুজিপথের গান-_ 


(Muktipather Gan. Songs of Way to Freedom. A 
collection of patriotic poems commemorating historical 
national upsurges_in India at different times and eulo- 
gising some distinguished Indian patriots.] Pages 14-+- 
1+43. Published by Barendra Nath Ghosh, Barendra 
Library, 204, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. (27th March, 
1953.} Double Crown 16700, Reprint. Rupee 1-8 
annas. 


Devendra Nath Bag, Brahmo Mission Press, 211, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 6500 copies. 


[Previous impression not received.] 


188. বুদ্ধদেব جج‎ শ্রেষ্ঠ কবিতা-_ 


Budhadev Basur Srestha Kabité Best Poems of 
budhadeb Bose. A compilation of miscellaneous 
poems from Budhadeb Bose’s different poetical publi- 
cations.] Edited by Buddhadeb Bose. Pages 135. 
Published by Saurendra Nath Bose, 47, Ganesh Chandra 
Avenue, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or, 1952-63 A.D. [26th 
March, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 5. 
Gopal Chandra Ray, Navana Printing Works, 47, 
Ganesh Chandra Avenue, Caloutta. 1,100 copies. 


189. Muhammad Khodadad Hossain, (Dr.)—Mcwa 
سی ین‎ 
(Sajher-Sindur. Vermilion of the evening (Sky). 
Contains poems on miscellaneous topics.] Pages 76. 
Published by Nripendra Krishna Banerjee, Khagra, 
Saidabad, Murshidabad. 1359 Saél of 1952-53 A.D. 
(18th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 18 edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Jitendra Nath Banerjee, Prativa Printing Works 
Khagra, Murshidabad. 1,000 copies. 


18 
Bengali—Poetry—concid. 


190. Pabitra Kumar 80161৮ আলো হাসা 


{Alo-Chiiyé. Light and Shadow. A oollection of 
miscellaneous poems.] Pages 1+40 Published by 
Arun Kumar Mitra, 110B, Durga Charan Doctor Road, 
Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952-53 A.D. [20th April, 
1953. [1 Demy 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 2. 

Gaurisankar Ray Chowdhury, Basusri Press, 80/6, 
Grey Street, Calcutta. 400 copies. 


"191. Rabindra Nath Tagore—cam— 


[Kheyé. Ferry. Contains a number of lyric poems.] 
Pages 158. Published by Pulin Bihari Sen, ۵٥ 
Bharati, 6/3, Dwarakanath Tagore Lane, Calcutta, 
1359 981 or 1952-53 A.D. [2nd April, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Reprint edition. Rupees 2. 


Surya Narayan Bhattacharyya, Tapasi Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 4,100 copies. 


[Previous edition noticed in entry No. 176 at page 14 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending June, 1942.} 


192. Rangalal 139116116--পদি[নী উপাধ্যান--- 


[10801771101 Upikhyin. The Story of Padmini. A 
poetical work in epic form narrating the. historical 
story of Alauddin Khilji’s invasion of Rajasthan to 
win over Padmini and 8140 the incident of her ultimate 
suicide to escape dishonour in the hands of invadors.] 
Edited by Brajendra Nath Banerjee and Sajani Kanta 
Das. Pages 124. Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 
243/1, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 1357 Sal or 
1950-51 A. D. [lst October, 1951.) 78 Ist 
edition. Rupee ۰ 

Sajanikanta Das, Saniranjan Press; 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Caloutta, 750 copies. 


193. Sajani Kanta Das—cr یچچ و‎ — 


[815৮ 0 Chanda. Thought and Rhythm. Contains 
short poems on topics connected with various parts of 
the world. Also contains stanzas in each of which the 
author attempts to display the charactcristic style of a 
separate distinguished poet but at the same time the 
sense of each centres round a particular selected portion 
of Michael Madhusudan Dutta’s well-known poem 
entitled ‘“Meghnadbadh Kavya’’.] Pages 1496. Pub- 
lished by the printer, 57, Indra Biswas Road, Calcutta. 
1359 Sal or 1952-53 A.D. [8rd February, 1969], 
9” x54". Ist edition. Rupecs 2-8 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 550 copies, 


194. Sanjay Bhattacharyya—qeyq ও cya— 


[Aprem O Prem. Non-Love and Love. Contains 
"ase on miscellancous topics.] Pages 30. Published 
oe Satya Prasanna Datta, Purvasa, Ltd., P-13, Ganesh 
andra Avenue, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952-53 A.D. 
[6th May, 1953.] Demy 8vo. 2nd edition. Rupee 1. 
Sanjay Bhattacharyya, Purvasa, Ltd., P-13, Ganesh 
Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. 250 copies. 
[18৮ edition not received.] 


Bengali —Political Science. 


195. wey, মাতি ও শাল তিঅ'র উপদলীয় চক্রাস্ত-_ 


[Adre Marti O Sarl [187 Upadaliya Cakrinta. Frao- 
tiona] conspiracy of Andre Marti and Sarl Tinor. 
A translation from the central organ of the French 
Communist Party on the charges levelled against two 
of the French Communist leaders of the names leading 


11-8۰ 


Bengall—Political Solence—conid. 

to their expulsion from the Party in 1962.] Pages 44. 
46. Published by Ramen Sen, 64, Lower Circular 
Road. 1953. [14th June, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo, 
Ist edition. (T). 5 annas. 


Sunil Kundugrami, Ganasakti Printers, 33, Alimud. 
din Street, Calcutta-16. 2,200 copies. 


106. Haripada Bhattacharyya—aiaty 3118 সমসা।-- 


[Asim Udvastu Samasy&. Refugee problem of Assam. 
Discusses the problem of refugees in Assam. Criticises 
Government’s policy towards the refugees in Assam 
and points out certain defects which are said to 
have rendered all activities towards rehabilitation of 
the refugees a failure.} Pages 43. Published by the 
author, Secretary, Nikhil Assam Asray Prarthi Samiti, 
Rail Bazar, Pandu, Assam. 1953. [4th May, 2969] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 4 81083, 


Abani Ranjan Barua, Barua Art Press, 123A, Dhar. 
matala Street, Calcutta. 4,000 copies. 


197. Makhan Pal—cme বিপুবী লযাজবাদের ভূমিক1- 


[Bharate Viplavi Samaéjvider Bhimiké. Introduction 
to Revolutionary Socialism in India. Presents a history 
of the growth and activities of the Revolutionery Socia- 
list Party of India and attempts to establish the supe- 
riority of the Party over the Indian National Congress 
Party on the one hand and so-called Leftist parties 
like the Communist Party of India, etc., on the other by 
way of critical analysis of their ideals, activities, etc.] 
Pages 80. Published by Amar Chaudhuri, Kranti Pub- 
lishers, 37, Ripon Street, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952. 
53 A.D. [12th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Devavrata Ray, Kranti Press, 37, Ripon Street, 
Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


198. মে দিধপের ডাক--১৯৫৩ সাল. 


[Me Divaser Da&k. Call of May day. & booklet, 
containing an address to the mass, deals with the prob- 
lems of labourers. A copy of 6116 resolu- 
tion passed at Viena in the sitting of the execu- 
tive committee of World Trade Union Federation 18 
also appended with it.] Pages 23. Published by 
Manoranjan Ray, 249, Bowbazar Street, Calcutta. 
1952-53A.D. [15th May, 1955.] Demy 16mo. 186 
edition. 1 anna. 


Sunil Kundagrami, Ganasakti Printers, Calcutta. 
3,500 copies. 


199. Priya Kumar Goswami—at বিংশ শতাব্দী-_ 


[Ei Viméa Sativdi. This Twentieth century. Con- 
tains a number of short essays mainly on political 
matters written on the backgrownd of the last Great 
War. The author attempts to point out the causes of 
clashes between different western powers, viz., England, 
Germany, Italy, France, America,etc., as regards colonial 

ssession in Asia and also shows how they are not 
being able to have a smooth sailing against the এ 

litical consciousness of the Asiatic people. Intend 
or juvenile readers.] Pages 8+112. Published by 
Brindaban Dhar & Sons, Lid., 5, Bankim Chatter] 
Street, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952-53 A.D. [? 
March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 3rd_ editio2- 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-12 annas. 


Paresh Nath Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5, Bankim 
Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


[Ist edition noticed in entry No. 242 at page 20 4 
the catalogue for quarter ending December, 1948.] 


Ii—1953. 
Bengall—Political Sclence—concid. 


200. Tarapada Lahiri, (M.A., B.L.)—efantt! দখল বিলের 
গলদ কোথায় ? 


(Jamidiri Dakhal Biler Galad Kothai? Wherein 
lies the error of the Zamindari Abolition Bill? A ori- 
ticism of the امہ‎ trying to show that zamindars have 
got no proprietary right over land under their posses- 
sion and to point out that in passing the Act, Govern- 
ment have neglected the rights of cultivators who have 
always suffered and will have to suffer also under the 
new system although the zamindars who are shown to 
have no legal right to get any compensation on aboli- 
tion of zamindari system will be paid lavishly. Also 
asks the cultivators to press for suitable modification 
of the Act in their favour.] Pages 48. Published by 
Amar Chowdhuri, Kranti Publishers, 37, Ripon Street, 
Calcutta. [4th June, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. 4 annas. 


Ramesh Chakravarti, Kranti Press. 37, Ripon Street, 
Calcutta. 1,900 copies. 


Bengall—Religion. 


201. Abhedananda, Svami—etta4— 


(Jagaran. A waking. Deals with the causes of 
alleged backwardness of India and attempts 
to inspire men, women and youths with the lofty ideals 
of its regeneration through purity of practice.] Pages 
43. Published by the author, Sarengabad, 24-Parga- 
nas. 1359 981 or 1952-53 A.D. [10th April, 1953.] 
Double Foolscap 16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. 
6 annas. 


Kishori Mohan Mondal, Nabagauranga Press, 104, 
Amherst Street, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


202. Asimananda, Svami, Saraswati—rra 53}— 


[Saral Candi. The simple Chandi. Story of “the 
Chandi’, told in simple Bengali. A publication of 
Sri Sri Bijay Krishna Asram, of Ramchandrapur, 
Manbhum.}] Pages 7+37. Published by Lalit Mohan 
Bhattacharyya, 8-1M, Hazra Lane, Calcutta. 1360 Sal 
or 1963-54 A.D. [22nd May, 1953.] Double Foolscap 
16mo, 3rd edition. Rupee ]. 


Sajlendra Nath Guha Ray, Sree Saraswati Press, Ltd., 
82, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 2,100 copies. 


[Previous edition not received.] 


203. if ও সমাজ-_ 


(Dharma O Sam&j. Religion and Society. A Bengali 
‘ranslation of Tomson George's writings entitled “An 
~S8ay on Religion’’ dealing with religion as a changing 
idea that changos with the change of productive forces 
Ol society and as an instrument of exploitation in the 
hands of the ruling class.] Translated by Haripada 

atterji, Pages 62. Published by Suren Dutta, 
12, Bankim Chaterji St., Cal-12, 1953. [lst May, 


1058, Double Crown 16100. Ist edition (2). 6 
81100, 


Sunil Kundagrami, Ganasakti Press, 33, Alimuddin 
:ا‎ Cal-16, 2,200 copies. 


19 
Bengali—Roeligion—contd. 


204. Dinesh Chandra Bhattacharyya, (Gitaratna)— 
শীশ্রীললিত। সধি__ 


(Sri Sri Lalit&é 9801. Name of vaishnav devotes, 
An account of the early life of the late Vaishnav devotee 
Lalita Sakhi, who was formerly known as Gopal 
Krishna Bhattacharyya given by the author the 
younger brother of the devotee. Throws light on his 
spiritual development and unattachment to world! 
life and also on the circumstances under which he loft 
home for his extraordinary Sadhana as a female 
devotee.] Pages 12+176. Published by Nimai Chan- 
dra Bhattacharya, Masile ‘“Bhakti-Niketan”’, Andul- 
Mauri, Howrah. 1359 ৪8] or 1952-53 A.D. [27th 
August, 1952.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
INustrated. Rupees 2. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Belgatchia, Caloutta. 1,100 copies. 


205. Kuladananda 
তৃতীয় খণ্ড-- 


[Srt Sri Sadgurusanga. Trtiya Khanda. Association 
with the Revered Preceptor. Part III. The author's 
diary for the year 1298 Sal recording incidents in the 
life of his spiritual guide Bijaykrishna Goswami and 
his instructions to disciples.) Pages 4+260. Pub- 
lished by Biswanath Banerjee, Thakurbari, Puri. 1350 
Sal or 1952-53 AD. [2nd April, 1953.] Double 
foolscap 8vo. 5th edition. Illustrated. Rupees 4. 


Press, 30, 


Brahmachari— 


শীশীসদৃগডরুসল | 


Suryanarayan Bhattacharya, Tapasi 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies, 


[Previous edition not received.] 


206. Kulada Ranjan 2" পুরাণের গ্প-- 


(Purdéner Galpa. Stories from the Puranas. A collec. 
tion of stories from the Puranas, intended for juvenile 
readers.} Pages 2138. Published by A. Mukherjee, 
2, College Square, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952-53 A.D, 
[19th May, 1958. [ Double Crown 16mo. 2nd _ edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Suryya Narayan Bhattacharyya, Tapasi Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 3,200 copies. 


{Ist edition not received.] 


207. Lalbehari Ray Chowdhury, 
নিষেদন-_- 


[Amar Nivedan. My humble offer. A short life sketch 
of the author and discussions on the presont weak- 
nesses of the Brahma oult with suggestions for amelio- 
ration of such weaknesses. Intended for readers in- 
terested in Brahma ideology.] Pages 28-74-4178. 
Published by the author, 54/3, Hazra Road, Calcutta, 
1953. [29th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist 
edition. Rupees 2. 


Debendra Nath Bag, Brahmo Mission Presa, 211, 
Cornwallis Street, Caloutta-6. 500 copies. 


(B.L.)— আমার 


20 
Bengall—-Religion—conid, 


208. Radhanath Ray Chaudhuri— 
(যনসামল)-- 


[78310050057 (Manasimangal). The poetical work 
on the story of Padma (Manasa) or the auspicious 
poem about (the snake-goddess) Manasa. A poem on 
the mythological account of the birth of the snake- 
goddess Manasa and the popular story connected with 
the introduction of her worship with which is inter- 
woven the story of a devoted girl named Behula 
who by the power of her chastity had her dead hus- 
band (who had been bitten by a snake) restored to 
life.} Pages 12+1+4259. Published by Subodchan- 
dra Majumdar, Dev Sahitya Kutir, 22-5B, Jhamapukur 
Lane, Calcutta. (6th June, 1953.) 22“ 29°—}. 3rd 
edition. Illustrated. Rupees 3. 


8. 0. Majumdar, Dev Press, 24, Jhamapukur Lane, 
Caloutta 3,000 copies. 


[2nd edition noticed in entry No. 305 at page 32 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending september, 
1933.] 


یئز 


200 টাটা ۱۱۷3155 4181۴5 ৫ষখণ্ড-_ 


[Rammohan-Granthévali-5ma Khanda. Works of 
Rammohan. Part V. Some religous and philosophi- 
cal discussions of Raja Rammohan Ray made in reply 
to some questions. The writings were wished to be 
published in ‘“‘Samachar Darpan’’ in the name of Siba 
Prasad Sarma.) Edited by Brajendra Nath Bandyopa- 
dhyay and Sajani Kanta Das. Pages 38. Published 
by Sanat Kumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya-Parisat. 
Sravan, 1358 Sal. [23rd June, 1853: 1 10°x6}". Ist 
edition. Rupee l. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra Biswas 
Road, Belgachia, Cal-37. 450 copies. 


210. Satis Chandra Chakrabarti—ef meta মধুচক্র- 


[00500985085 Madhucakra. Beehive of Religious 
Practice. A book on the Brahma religious cult dealing 
with the ways of individual practice to raise oneself to 
a real devotee and the relation of an individual with 
the society he lives in.] Pages 44198. Published by 
Nani Bhusan Das Gupta, 210/6 Cornwallis Street, 
Calcutta. Magh 1359 Sal. [27th March, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 2. 


Devendra Nath Bag, Brahmo Mission Press; 211, 
Cornwallis Street. Calcutta. 500 copies. 


211. Satis Chandra Chakrabarti—-aracts আহ্বান-_. 


[Navayuger Ahvin. A collection of twelve religious 
discourses written from time to time. Apparently 
intended for people of Brahmo Samaj.] Pages 1+ 163. 
Published by Nani Bhushan Dasgupta, 210-6, Corn- 
wallis Street, Calcutta. 1359 981 or, 1952-53 A.D. 
(29th March, 1953. [ Double Crown 16100. Reprint 
edition. Rupees 2. 


Debendra Nath Bag, Brahmo Misson Press, 211 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


212. ۹7ئ۲(‎ ভাগবত-_ 


Sricaitanyabhagavat. Poem based on the mytho- 
ogical account of Srichaitanya, the God 17708710569] 
Compiled by Dwarikanath Dalal from the writings of 
Brindabandas Thakur. Pages 2+ 166. Published by 


Bengali—Religion—concld. 


Dwarikanath Dalal, Harinam Prachar Samiti, 5, Nim- 
tollaghat Street, Cal-6. 1359 Sal or, 1952-53 A.D.. (llth 
May, 1953.] Double Demy 16mo. Ist edition. Ru. 
pee 1-6 8۰ 


Santi Ranjan De, Sri Lachmi Press, 56/3, Nimtolla 
Ghat Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


213. শীম কথ দ্বিতীয় খণ্ড. 


(Srima-Kathi. Dvitiya Khanda. Topics about Srima 
(Mahendra Gupta). Part II. Contains an account of 
the life and teachings of Mahendra Gupta (known also 
as Master Mahasay), a great devoteo of Thakur Sri 
Ramkrishna Paramhansa of Dakshineswar. Contents 
of the book owe their origin to the diaries kept by the 
editor, and relate to the periods from 5th August, 
1924 to the 24th November, 1925 and from 116) June, 
1929 to llth July, 1929.] Edited by Swami Jagan- 
nathananda. Pages 3+6-+275. Published by Anil 
Kumar Gupta, 13/2, Guru Prasad Chaudhuri Lane, 
Calcutta. [9th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. lst 
edition. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Kishori Mohan Mandal, Nava Gauranga Press, 
104, Amherst Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


(Previous part noticed in entry No. 392 at page 29 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1942.] 


214. ঠাকুর রামক,ফের নামষোপদৈশ-_ 


hikur Ramakraner Namopades. Teachings of Tha- 

ur Ramkrishna in respect of the Name of the Supreme 
Being). A collection of a few teachings of Sri Rama- 
krishna in respect of devotion to God.] Compiled by 
Dwarikanath Dalal. Pages 16. Published by the 
Compiler, Harinam Prachar Samiti, 5, Nimtala Ghat 
Street, Calcutta. [18th May, 1953.] Double Crown 
26029, Ist edition. 2 annas. 


Santi Ranjan De, Sri Lachmi Press, 56/3 Nimtala 
Ghat Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


215. Trailokya Nath Chakravarti—atwy পথে প্রথম খণ্ড. 


[Yajan-pathe. Pratham Khanda. In the path of 
performing sacrifice. Part I. Gives an account of the 
author’s coming into contact with the Sri Sri Thakur 
Anukul Chandra, the well-known religious preacher of 
Pabna and founder of a religions organisation known 
as ‘“Satsang”’, his initiation and his subsequent acti- 
vities of preaching the message of his preceptor under 
his direction for about 25 years from 1327 to 1352 B.S. 
Incidentally gives an idea of the activities of the organi- 
sation.] Pages 7+8+128. Published by Kshitis 
Chandra Ray Das. 1953. [10th May, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. JlUustrated. Rupee 1-8 
annas. 


Mrinal Kanti Sen Gupta, Mahajati Printing Works, 
38, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


216. বীয়েল্রবাণী, শী (প্রথম ¢o)— 


(Virendra-Vanl, Sri (Pratham Khanda). Message of 
Sri Virendra’ Part I. A collection of the teachings and 
some superhuman feats of Sri Virendra also known 44 
Balak Brahmachari, a saintly character.] Compiled and 
edited by Ajit Bhattacharyya, Santidas Majumdar and 
Barindra Kumar Ghosh. Pages 1+20+358. Fub- 
lished by Jogesh Chandra Biswas, Sangrah-tattve 
Publishers, 46, Bhupendra Basu Avenue, Caloutte. 
(28th May, 1953.] Double Demy 16000. 176 edition. 
Rupees 5-8 annas. 


Deva Prasad§Mitra, Elm Press, 63, Beadon Streeb 
Calcutta. 2,200 copeis. 


[I—1953. 
Bengali—S8cience. 


217. Charu Chandra Bhattacharyya—fa ۳۲ উপাদান-+ 


[Viéver Up&din. Constituents of the Universe. Con- 
tains articles on scientific topics e.g. atom, electron, 
proton, energy, electricity etc. etc.) Pages 1-+-48. 
Published by Pulin Bihari Sen, Visva Bharati, 6/3, 
Dwarakanath Tagore Lane, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or, 
1952-53 A.D. [20th March, 1953.] Double Crown 
16700, 2nd reprint edition. Jlustrated. 8 annas. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan Press; 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 2,100 copies. 


[Previous edition noticed in entry No. 324 at page 26 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending June, 1945.) 


Educational— 
218. Charu Chandra Chowdhuri—aita বিজ্ঞান, 182(7 ভাগ 


[Jhan-Vijfian. Part II. Science intended for pupils 
of class VI.} Pages 24184. Published by Dinesh 
Chandra Basu, 10, College Square, Calcutta. 1952- 
§3 A.D. [6th May, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. Ist edi- 
tion. Jllustrated. 10 annas. 

Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16 Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


219. Charu Chandra 0180%৫1,00- প্রাথমিক বিজ্ঞান-_ 


[Préthamik Vijfién. A book of elementary science 
intended for the pupils of Classes VII and VIII in 
Assam.] Pages 1884-10. Published by Dinesh Chandra 
Basu. Modern Book Agency, 10, College Square, 
Calcutta. 1359 Sal or, 1952-53 A.D. [8th April, 1953.) 
22' x 32’. 16 mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupee 1-10 
8۰ 


Prabhat Chandra Ray, Sri Gouranga Press Ltd, ق‎ 
Chintamani Das Lane, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


220. Kani Lal Mukherjee—frata *fasa, প্রথম سخ إچ‎ 


[11787 Paricay. Part 1. A Science reader, intended 
for students of Class VI.] Pages 4+-79. Published by 
Rajanikanta Das, 15, College Square, Calcutta. 1952- 
53 A.D. [186. May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. Illustrated. 10 annas. 


NSamarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16 Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 7,250 copies. 


221, Manoranjan Datta, Dr.—fratcay পথে, দ্বিতীয় ভাগ 


[Vijfigner Pathe. Part II. Intended for students of 
Claas VI.) Pages 4+74. Published by Dhirendra 
Nath Ghose, 30, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 1959- 
88A.D. [8th May, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. 2nd edition 
Iustrated. 10 annas. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16 Hemendra 
Sen Street, Caloutta. 7,200 copies. 


222, টান বিজ্ঞানের পথে, চতুর্থ ভাগ-- 


[Vijianer Pathe. Part IV. A Science reader intended 
for studenta of Claas VIII of Weat Bengal Secondary 

ucation Board.] Pages 1+84. Published by 
Dhirendra Nath Ghose, 30, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 
1952.53 A.D. [9th May, 1953.] Imperial 16mo. 2nd 
edition. 11188470460. 12 annaa. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Pross, 16 Hemen- 


dra Sen Street, Calcutta. 8,100 copies. 


223. Sachi Prasad Roy Chowdhuri—frata ۔۔ جو‎ 


(Vijtan Mafijari, A book in gencral science for the 
pudents of class VII.] Pages 8+77. Published by 
‘tesh Nath Ray, 18B, Shyama Charan De Street, 
نس‎ [18th April, 1953. [ Double Crown 16mo 
iVised edition. Jlustrated. 12 annas. 


la: C. Roy, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
9, Calcutta, 10,200 copies. 


21 
Bengali—8cience—concid. 


224. Tara Chand Nandi, [M.8c., (Botany and 
Biology)|—yafs পাঠ দ্বিতীয় ভাগ-. 


[Prakrti Path. Part II. A book of Scienco on Botany 
and Biology intended for pupils of Class VII.) Pages 
4+78. Published by Jatindra Nath Sen, 14, Bankim 
Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. (2nd May, 
1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. IUustrated., 
12 annaa. 


Samarendra Bhusan Mallik, Bani Press, 16, Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 12,200 copies. 


Bengali—Sociology. 


225 দেশ বিদেশের যৌন বোধ--- 


[Des-Videser Yauna-bodh. Sex-instinct in different 
countries. Deals wih sexual topics, including sexual 
perversities, unequal matches, effects of sexual excesses, 
960. etc., said to be written by a lady doctor.] Pages 
78. Published by the printer, Sisir Publishing House, 
22/1, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. (September, 1944] 
Double Crown, 16mo. 3rd edition. Rupee 1. 


Sisir Kumar Mitra, Sisir Printing Press, 22-1 Cornwallis 
Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copios. 


[Second edition noticed in entry No. 277 at page 22 


7 of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1944.] 


226. কোকশাস্ত্র-. 


(Kokaéastra. The Kokasastra. Bengali rendering of 
an authoritative sanskrit work of the 13th century, 
on sexology entitled Ratitrahasyam (also known as 
Kokasastra) attributed to Kakkoka or Koka Pandit.] 
Translated by Dr. 8. B. Pal, M.D., Pages 1+ 100. 
Published by the printer, Sasibhushan Pal and Son, 
45, Masjidbari Street, Calcutta. 1953. [5th May, 
1953.] Double Crown 16000, Ist edition. (T.) 
Illustrated. Rupee 1. 


Pran Krishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45 Masjidbari Street, 
Calcutta. 500 copies. 


Bengali—Travel. 


227. Bett রেলওয়ে সুবারবন টাইম টেবল | হাওড়। frott— 


(Istérn Reloye Suvarvan Taim Tebal. 78০0৮ Vibhag. 
Eastern Railway Suburban Time Table. Howrah 
Division. In force from 16th April, 1953.) Pages 
154. Published by K. B. Mathur, General Manager, 
E. Rly., Calcutta. [21st April, 1953.] Royal 16mo. 
lst edition. 2 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, E. Rly. Press, 
Caloutta. 22,000 copies. 


228. یوم‎ রেলওয়ে সুবারবন টাইম টেবল। শিয়ালদহ বিভাগ 


[757 Reloye Suvarvan Taim [9১91908108৮ 
1 নি Railway Suburban Time Table. 
Sealduh Division. In force from 16th April, 1953.] 
Pages 111. Published by K. B. Mathur, General 
Manager, E. Rly., Calcutta. [10th April, 1953 Royal 
16mo. lst edition. 2 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, E. Rly. 
Press, Calcutta. 20,000 copies. 


22 
Bengali—Travel—concid. 


229. Jayanta 738119119৪-__ শ্রীশীকেদারনাথ ও বদরীনাথ-_. 


(Sri Sri Kedaérnéth O Vadrindth. Famous places of 
Hindu pilgrimage. Contains a recorded version of a 
story of a travel delineated by a traveller who is 
said to have been on a pilgrimage to Kedarnath and 
Vadrinath.] Pages 1+140. Published by Satya- 
narayan Bhattacherjee, 18B, Shyama Charan De 
Street, Calcutta. 1359 881 or 1952-53 A.D. [10th 
April, 1953.] Demy 8৮০. Ist edition. IJlustrated. 
Rupees 3. 


Gaurisankar Ray Chowdhury, Baausri Press, 80/6, 
Grey Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


230. পূব রেলপথ সময় "۳۳٣۱۱ ১৬ই এপ্রিল ১৯৫৩ হইতে-_ 


[0:৮৮ Rolpath Samay Taliké. 16i Epril 1953 haite. 
Eastern Railway Time Table. From 16th April, 1953.] 
Pages 176. Published by K. B. Mathur, General 
Manager, Eastern Railway, Calcutta. [15th May, 
1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, E. Rly. Press, Calcutta. 4,000 copies. 


Educational— 
231. Sanjib Chandra Chattarjee—*tatcat 


(Pailamau, a district in Bihar. Contains author’s 
woll-known story of travel of the name mentioned 
in the title together with annotations. Intended for 
candidates for schvol Final Examination.] Edited by 
Panchanan Chakravarty. Pages 26+62. Published 
by Dhirendra Mohan Ray, 217, Cornwallis Street, 
Calcutta. 1359 881 or, 1952-53 A.D. [29th April, 
1953.] Double Demy 16mo. 2nd cdition. Rupee 1-4 
annas. 


Ram Krishna Bhattacharjee, Prabhu Press, 30 Corn- 
wallis Stroet, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


English—Biography. 


232. Brajendranath Seal—Rammohun Roy, The 
Universal Man. [Contains two addresses—the first 
said to have been delivered at the Death Anniversary 
of Rammohun Roy held at Bangalore on the 27th 
September, 1924 and the second at the Rammohun 
Roy Centenary celebrations at Calcutta on the 6 
December, 1933. The addresses deal with Raja's 
life, erudition, catholicity of outlook, zeal in effecting 
reforms in different fields, etc.] Pages 40. Published 
by Jyotirindranath Das, for Sadharan Brahmo Samaj, 
211, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. [2nd April, 1953.] 
Demy 8vo. Keprint. 


Debendranath Bag, Brahmo Mission Press, 211 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[Previous impression not received.] 


233. Diwan Chand Sharma—Makers of To-day— 
{Contains biographies of eminent men and women 
of the world.] Pages 216. Published by Macmillan & 
Co., Ltd., 294 Bowbazar Strect, Calcutta. [28th May, 
1953.] Crown 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 2. 


B. Page, The 1.8.8.D. Preas, 95B, Chittaranjan 
Avenue, Calcutta. 1১000 copies. 


234. Haridas Mukherjee—Benoy Kumar Sarkar— 
[Contains life-history of Benoy Kumar Sarkar with 
reference to his services to Bengali literature and 
his contribution to world culture. With a foreword 
by Dr. Radha Kumud Mookerjee, M.P., M.A., Ph.D., 
D.Litt.) Pages 76+XIII. Published by Kalidas 


11-18. 
English—-Biography—concid. 


Mukherjee, Siksha-Tirtha Karyalaya, 9/2, Fern Place, 
Calcutta-19. [26th March, 1953.} Double Crown 
l@mo. Ist edition. Rs. 2. 


[Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120/2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


235. Iqbal Singh—Ardent Pilgrim, The—[Provides 
a biography of Iqbal and traces the growth and develop. 
ment of his social, political and philosophical ideas 
as revealed through his poetry and his writings in 
prose.}] Pages 10+246+2. Published by Orient 
Longmans Ltd., 17, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta. 
[8th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition, 
Rupees 6-8 annas. 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5, Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,500 copies. 


236. Vivekananda Swami—My Life and Mission— 
(A short lecture said to have been delivered by the 
author to the Shakespeare Club of Pasadena, California 
on January 27, 1900 A.D. dealing with his own life 
including his inner struggle and sorrow and also his 
plan for the uplift of India.] Pages 6+47. Published 
by Swami Yogeshwarananda, Advaita Ashrama, Maya- 
vati, Almora, Himalayas. [15th April, 1953.] Double 
foolscap 16mo. 3rd impression. 10 annas. 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


[Previous impression noticed in entry No. 339 at 
age 28 of the Catalogue for the quarter ending 
চি 1945.] 


English—Commerce. 


237. Calcutta Stock Exchange Official Year Book, 
1953, The.—{Issued by the Committee of The Calcutta 
Stock Exchange Association Limited.] Compiled and 
edited by A. K. Sur. Pages 469. Published by D. 
Chakraverty, M.A., B.L., 7 Lyons 6, Calcutta. 
[7th May, 1953.] Royal 8vo. 17th edition. Illustrated. 
Rupees 12-8 annas. 


N. N. Ghosh, B.A., Mossrs. Lal Chand & Sons, 
Printers, 76, Lower Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,000 
copies. 


238. Ghosh, B. B., [Ph.D., (Econ. Landon.)}- 
Businoss Organisation.—[A catechism on the principles 
and practice of modern business organisation.] “Page 
8+732. Published by A. Mukherjee, 2, College Square 
Calcutta. (8th May, 1953.] Double Demy—I16mo. 
Eighth (revised) edition. Rupees 12. 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Dss 
Lane, Calcutta. 4,200 copies. 


239. Indian Chamber of Commerce, Calcutta. Annual 
Report of the Committee for the year 1952. Pages 141. 
Published by the Secretary, Indian Chamber of Com 
merce, 23-B, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. [188 
April, 1953.] Royal 8৮০, Ist edition. 


K. C. Bose, The Binani Printers Ltd., 38 Strand| 
Road, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


240. Presidential Address of Sir Bijo ০০৫ 
Singh Roy at The 27th Annual General Meeting ° 
The Indian Chamber of Commerce, Calcutta held # 
Friday, the 24th April, 1953 at 4 p.m. Pages 1 
Published by The Secretary, Indian Chamber | “4 
Commerce, 23 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. [22 | 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. | 


K. C. Bose, The Binani Printers Lid., 38 strand 
Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


পা 1963, 


English—Economics. 


241, Soviet Labour—[A comparative study of 
existing labour conditions in Soviet Russia, India, 
Brituin and the U.S.A. with 4 diagrams and 11 statiati- 
cal tables.} Pages 54. Published by Employers’ Associa- 
tion, 15 Park Street, Calcutta. {15th June, 1953.) 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 12 annas. 


K. C. Bose, Binani Printers, Ltd., 38 Stand Road, 
Calcutta. 600 copies. 


English—Education. 


242. College of Engineering and Technology, Bengal. 
Prospectus. Session 1953-54. Pages 144. Published 
by P.C. Vasu Malik, Registrar, National Council of 
Education, Bengal, P. 0. Jadavpur College, Calcutta 32. 
[16th April, 1953.] Double Demy, 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


248. Institution of Engineers (India), The.—[Con- 
tains Bye-laws of the Institution.] Pages 33. Pub- 
lished by ۶۰ P. Adalji, for the Institution of Engineers 
(India), 8 Gokhale Road, Calcutta. (25th May, 1953.) 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rs. 5 (for non-members), 


K. Ci Bose, Binam Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand Road; 
Calcutta-1. 5,000 copies. 


244. Kala-Bhavan—{A prospectus of Kala-Bhavana 
(College of Fine Arts and Crafts) under the 
Visva-Bharati University.] Pages 16. Published by 
the Printer, Santiniketan Pross, Santiniketan, ۷۷ رادم‎ 
Bengal. [2186 May, 1953.] Royal 8vo. lst edition. 
Rupee 1. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, 


Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, West Bengal. 


1,100 copies. 


245. Patha Bhavana—(Contains a prospectus of 
“Patha-Bhavana’’ or the School run_ under the 
Visva-Bharati University with miscellaneous informa- 
tion of the University.] Pages 16. Published by the 
Printer, Santiniketan, West Bengal. [10th February, 
1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, 


Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, West Bengal, 


1,100 copies. 


246. Siksha-Bhavana—{Contains a prospectus of 
Siksha-Bhavana or the College Section of the Visva- 
Bharati University with other information of the 
Institution.) Pages 16. Published by the Printer, 
Santiniketan, West Bongal. [15th February, 1953.] 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rupee 1. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, West Bengal. 1,100 copies. 


247. Vinaya Bhavana—[Propectus of Vinaya 
Bhavana or the College of Teaching leading to the 
egree of Bachelor of Teaching with other informa- 
tion of the Visva-Bharati University.] Pages 16. Pub- 
lished by the printer, Santiniketan, West Bengal 
(20th March, 1953.] Royol 8৮০. Ist edition Rupee 1. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan Press, 
tmiketan, West Bengal. 1,100 copies. 


English—Engineering. 


48, Answers to Questions set for Electrical Super- 
Visors’ Examinations.—(Part I, set by the Licensing 
td, West Bedgal.] Pages 50, Published by J. N. 


23 


English—Engineering—concld. 


Mukherji, Indian Associated Publishing Co., 160.) 
8-C Ramanath Majumdar Street, Calcutta. [4th April, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. JUlwustrated. 
Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mohendra Goasain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


249. Answers to Questions set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examinations. [Part III, set by the Licensing 
Board, West Bengal.}] Pages 38. Published by J. খে. 
Mukherjee, Indian Associated Publishing Co., Ltd., 
8-0 Ramanath Majumdar Street, Calcutta. (31st 
March, 1963.] Double Crown 16000, Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupees. 2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


250. Answers to Questions set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examinations. [Part IV, set by the Licensing 
Board, West Bengal.] Pages 62, Published by J. N. 
Mukherjee, Indian Associated Publishing Co., Ltd., 
8-C Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. [6th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16050. 186 edition. 
IUustrated. Rupees 2-8 annas, 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


251. Answers to Questions set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examinations. {Parts II and XI, set by the 
Licensing Board, West Bengal.] Pages 52. Published 
by J. N. Mukherji, Indian Associated Publishing Co., 
Ltd., 8-C Ramanath Majumdar Street, Calcutta. 
[4th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


252. Procter, E., M.C., B.Sc., Eng. (Hons.) (Lond.), 
A.M.I.C.E.—Determination of the Permissible Speeds 
on Curves, The. [Technical Paper No. 299 containi 
statements and opinions about the subject. iad 
from the office of the Railway Board, India.] Pages 39. 
Published by the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, 
Delhi. [16th March, 1953.) Royal 8vo. Reprinted 
edition. Iuustrated. Rupees 2. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, 
Railway, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


Eastern 


253. Technical 2 No. 328. Pretressed Concret 
Railway Girder. Spans including the Report on 
Test Span Contributed by Central Standards Office 
for Railways. [Issued from the office of the Railway 
Board.] Pages 42. Published by the Director, Civil 
Engineering, Railway Board, New Delhi. [14th June, 
1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rupee 1-4 annas. 

H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 750 copies. 


English—Games and 6ports. 


954. All India Racing Record (Summer Edition), 
52-583—[A complete record of 734 races run at important 
centres in India with miscellaneous information.) 
Pages 476. Published by M. N. Neogy, 36 Sooterkin 
Street, Calcutta. [25th May 1953.] Double foolscap 
16790, Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street 
Calcutta. 500 copies. 


English_—_Games and Sports—conid. 


255. Official Race Card of the Royal Caloutta 
Turf Club, The Calcutta Summer Meeting, Third 
Day, Saturday, 2186 March, 1953. [Contains race- 
news.] Pages 116. Published by E. R. Kinderdine, 
11 Russell Street, Calcutta. (20th March, 1953.] 
Demy .ہ1606‎ Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin 
Street, Calcutta. 309 copies. 


256. —————Fourth Day, Saturday, 28th March, 
1953. Pages 120. [27th March, 1953.) Demy 16mo. 
lst edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36, Sooterkin Street 
Calcutta. 319 copies. 


257. Programme of the Tollygunge Club Gymkhana 
Races. Spring Meeting, First Day, Saturday, 4th 
April, 1953. Pages 20. Published by W. ও. Pool, 
24 Park Street, Calcutta. (3rd April, 1953.) Demy 
06000. Ist edition. 8 annas. 

J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 190 copies. 


268. —————Second Day, Saturday, 110) April, 
1953. Pages 24. [10th April, 1953.) Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. 8 annas. : 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 190 copies. 


259. —————Third Day, Saturday, 18th April, 
1953. Pages 27. [17th April, 1953. [ Demy 16mo, 
lat edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 191 copies. 


260. —————fourth Day, Saturday, 25th April, 
1953. Pages 32. (24th April, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
lst edition. 8 annas. = 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 167 copies. 


261. —————Fifth Day, Saturday, 2nd May, 1953. 
Pages 36. [186 May, 1953.) Demy 16mo. 1st edition. 
8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 163 copies. 


262. ————Sixth Day, Saturday, 9th May, 1962. 
Pages 40. [8th May, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 186 edition. 
8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 180 copies. 


263. Racer, The—Tollygunge Spring Meeting. First 
Day, Saturday, 4th April, 1953. Pages 36. Published 
by the Printer, 36 Sooterkin Street, Caloutta. (2nd 
April, 1953.] Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Caloutta. 1,803 copies. 


264. —————Second Day, Saturday, 1168 April, 
1963. Pages 20. [9th April, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 1,705 copies. 


265. ————-Third Day, Saturday, 18th April, 
1953. Pages 24. [16th April, 1963] Demy 16mo. 
lst edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
cutta. 1,903 copies. 


TI— 1953. 
English—Games and Sports—conid. 


266. Racer, The Tollygung Spring Meeting, Fourth 
Day, Saturday, 25th April, 1953. Pages 28. [23rd 
April, 1953] Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 1,506 copies. 


267, —————Fifth Day, Saturday, 2nd May, 1953. 
Pages 32. [30th April, 1953.] Demy 16700. Ist 
edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 1,606 copies. 


268. ————Sixth Day, Saturday, 9th May, 1953. 
Pages 36. [7th May, 1953.) Demy 16mo. 18٤6 edition. 
4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 1,506 copies. 


269. —————Calcutta Summer Meeting, Third Day, 
Saturday, 2196 March, 1953. Pages 36. Published 
by the Printer, 36 Sooterkin Street, Calcutta. [19th 
March, 1953.] Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 4,206 copies. 


270. —————Fourth Day, Saturday, 28th March, 
1953. Pages 36. (26th March, 1953.) Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. 4 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 3,903 copies. 


271. Racing Calendar, The. No. I—[A fortnightly 
racing journal.] Pages 26. Published by Messrs. 
Thacker Spink & Co. (1933), Ltd., for the Royal Calcutta 
Turf Club, 3 Esplanade Hast, Calcutta. 2nd April, 
1953. [3rd April, 1963.] Demy Folio. Ist edition. 
Rupee ۰ 

J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


272. —————. No. 2. Pages 12. 16th April, 
1953. [16th April, 1953.) Demy Folio. Ist edition. 


Rupee 1. 
J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


273. —————. No. 3. Pages 6. 30th April, 1953. 
[30th April, 1953.) Demy folio. Ilstedition. Rupee 4 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


274, ————. No. 4. Pages 6. ط118‎ May, 1953. 
[13th May, 1953.] Demy folio. lst edition. Rupee 1. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Pross, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


275. ہہ‎ No.5. Pages 6. 28th May, 1953. 
[28th May, 1953.] Demy folio. 1st edition. Rupee I. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


113. 
English—Games and Sports—conid. 


276. Racing Calendar, The. No. 6. Pages 6. 
lith June, 1963. [11618 May, 1953.] Demy folio. Ist 
edition. Rupee ۰ 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street» 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


277. Racing Guide—Calcutta Summer Mocting, 
Third Day, Saturday, 2lst March, 1953. Pages 76. 
Published by M. N. Neogy, 36 Sooterkin Stroot, Calcutta. 
[20th March, 1953.] Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Svoterkin Streot, 
Calcutta. 5,701 copies. 


278. ————. Fourth Day, Saturday, 28th March, 
1953. Pages 76. [27th March, 1953.] Demy lomo. 
Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Lid. 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


279. শট Tollygunge Spring Meeting. First 
Day, Saturday, 4th April, 1953. Pages 76. [3rd April, 
19863. [ Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 3,202 copies. 


280. —————. Second Day, Saturday, ط118‎ April, 
1963. Pages 76. [10th April, 1953.] Demy 16000۰ 
lst edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 3,004 copies. 


281. —————. Third Day, Saturday, 18th April, 
1953. Pages 76. [17th April, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 3,004 copies. 


282. —————-. Fourth Day, Saturday, 25th April, 
1953. Pages 76. [24th April, ۱۹۵63. Demy 16290, 
Ist edition, 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 2,804 copies. 


283. ————~. Fifth Day, Saturday, 2nd May, 1953. 
Pages 76. [lst May, 1953.) Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Noogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 2,803 copies. 


284. ———_—. Sixth Day, Saturday, 9th May, 
1953. Pages 76. [8th May, 1953.) Demy 16mo. lst 
edition. 8 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 2,806 copies. 


285. Racing Guide (Special Edition) —Calcutta Sum- 
mer Meoting, Third Day, Saturday, 2156 March, 1953. 
Pages 136. Published by M. N. Neogy, 36 Sooterkin 
Street, Caloutta. [20th March, 1963]. ۰ Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupee 1. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Svoterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 256 copies. 


286. ——~———. Fourth Day, Saturday, 28th March, 
1958. Pages 140. [27th March, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
lst edition. Rupee 1. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 1,010 copies. 


25 
English—Qames and Sports—conid. 


287. Racing Guide, The. Tollygunge Spring 
Meeting, Fist Day, Saturday, 4th April, 1953. 
Pages 2. [8rd April, 1953.] Domy 16mo. 18 
edition. Rupee 1. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Culoutta. 50 copies. 


«88. ————. Second Day, Saturday, 11th April, 
1953. Pages 92. [10th April, 1953.] Domy 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupee ]. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 63 copies. 


289. ——-———. Third Day, Saturday, 18th April, 
1953. Pages 96. [17th April, 1953.] Demy 16100, 
Ist edition. Rupee ۰ 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 64 copies. 


290. —————. Fourth Day, Saturday, 25th April, 
1953. Pages 100. [24th April, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupee ۰ 


J.N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Caloutta. 52 copies. 


201. ——_———. Fifth Day, Saturday, 2nd May, 
1953. Pages 104. [186 May, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 6 
edition. Rupee I. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 52 copies. 


292. —————. Sixth Day, Saturday, Sth May, 
1953. Pages 106. [8th May, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupee 1. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 5] copies. 


293. R. 0. T. C. Racing Calendar, 1952-53, The 


(Vol. LXV)—{Contains record of racing taken place in 


important centres of India in 1952-53.] Compiled by 
Messrs. Thacker Spink & Co., Ltd., for the Royal 
Calcutta Turf Club. Pages 550. Published by Thacker 
Spink & Co., for the Royal Calcutta Turf Club, 3 
Esplanade East, Calcutta. [26th May, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 5. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 150 copies. 


294. Turf Handicap (Fonn & Cos’). Calcutta Races, 
Summer Meeting, ThirdDay, Saturday, 2156 March, 1953... 
Pages 2. Published by M. N. Neogy, 9 Neogy Pukur 
Lane, Calcutta. [18th March, 1953.] Foolscap folio. 
Ist edition. 2 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sootorkin Street, 
Calcutta. 1,980 copies. 


205. . Fourth Day, Saturday, 28th March, 
1953. Pages 2. [25th March, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 
Ist edition. 2 annas. 


J. N. Noogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin 9৮৩9৮, 
Calcutta. 1,850 copies. 


206. Tollygunge Races, Spring Meeting. First Day, 
Saturday 4th April, 1953. Pagos 2. [Ist April, 1953, 
Foolscap Folio. Ist edition. 2 annas. ۱ 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Pross, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 800 copies. 


26 


Engiish—Games and 8ports—concld. 


297. Tollygunge Races, Spring Meetings, Second 
Day, Saturday, 11th April, 1953. Pages 2. [8th April, 
1953.[ Foolscap Folio. Ist edition. 2 annas. 


J. N. 1০9৫9, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Caloutta. 705 ০01)198. 


208. —————. Third Day, Saturday, 18th April, 
1953. Pages 2. (15th April, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 
Ist edition. 2 annas. ۱ 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 603 copies. 


299. .سے‎ Fourth Day, Saturday, 25th April, 
1953. Pages 2. [22nd April, 1953.] Foolspcap Folio. 
Ist edition. 2 annas. 


J. N. Noogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 706 copies. 


300. ————.. Fifth Day, Saturday, 2nd May, 
1953. Pages 2. [29th April, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 
186 edition. 2 annas. 


J. N. Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 607 copies. 


301. ————. Sixth Day, Saturday, 9th May, 
1953. Pages 2. [6th May, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 
Ist edition. 2 annas. 


J. N, Neogy, Molin Press, Ltd., 36 Sooterkin Street, 
Calcutta. 602 copies. 


English—History. 


302. Elphinstone, M., E. B. Céwoll, W. W. Hunter, 
J. Talboys Whoeelor—Ancient India.—[This volume 
comprises a collection of eleven articles on difterent 
aspects of ancient history of India.] Pages 175. Pub- 
lished by Susil Gupta, 35 Chittaranjan Avenue, Cal- 
0৮৮৪, [12th April, 1953.] Royal 16mo. Ist edition. 


B. N. Bose, Bose press, 30 Brojo Mitra Lane, Cal- 
eutta. 1,200 copies. 


303. History of-—India, The. Akbar (Badauni)— 
(Contains English translation of the original 
Persian work, Akbar, by Badauni containing the history 
of the last part of Akbar’s reign.] Edited by Prof. 
John Dowson. Pages 8+160. Published by 5. Gupta, 
for Susil Gupta (India), Lid. 35, Central Avenue, 
Calcutta. [2186 April, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. 
2ud edition. (T). Rupoes 2. 


M. Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna Lane, 
Calcutta. 1,200 copies. 


[18 edition not received.] 


304. History of India, The—Akabr Nama of Shaik 
Abul-Fazl—-[Comprises English rendering of three 
articles on the roign of Akbar the first of which lends 
its title to the book.] Edited by Prof. John Dowson. 
Pages 8+156. Published by 8. Gupta, Susil Gupta 
(India), Ltd., 35 Central Avenue, Calcutta. [25th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 2nd _ edition. 
Rupees 2. 


M. Mukherjee, Temple Press, Nyayaratna Lane, Cal- 
cutta. 1,200 copies. 


[18৮ edition not received.) 


11-3. 


6€1161168---11186070--০0161৫. 


305. History of India, The. Tabakat-i-Akbari of 
Nizamuddin Ahmad, Bakshi. Part J.—[Steps of Akbar 
(The great Moghul Emperor) of Nizamuddin Ahmad, 
Bakshi. Contains English translation of Tabakati- 
Akbari originally written in Persian by Nizamuddin 
Ahmad, Bakshi, containing the fist part of the history of 
of Akbar’s reign.] Edited by Prof. John Dowson. 
Pages 8+174+-2. Published by 8. Gupta for Susil 
Gupta (India), Ltd., 35 Central Avonue, Calcutta. 
[4th May, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo. Second edi- 
tion, (T). Rupees 2. 


M. Mukherjeo, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna Lane, 
Calcutta. 1,200 copies. 


[186 edition not received.] 


306. ——————-. Part II. [Covering the part of 
the reign of Akbar from 13th to 38th year.] Pagos 
8-+-165+1. [llth May, 1058. [ Double Crown 16mo. 
2nd edition. (07), Rupees 2. 


M. Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna Lane, 
Calcutta. 1,200 copies. 


[186 edition not reccived.] 


307. History of India, The—Tuzak-i-Babari or 
Wakiyat-i-Akbari.—[Contains English edition of Tuzak- 
i-Babari containing articles said to have been repririted 
from Vols. [Vand V of the original edition and doaling 
with the reigns of Babar and Humayun.] Edited by 
Prof. John Dowson. Pages 8+168. Published by S. 
Gupta for Susil Gupta (India) Ltd., 35 Central Avenuo, 
Calcutta. [17th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
2nd edition, (T). Rupees 2. 


M. Mukherjoe, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna Lane, 
Calcutta. 1,200 copios. 


[1st edition not received.) 


308. Lal, R. R. (M.A.)—Bodh-Gaya: Past and 
Present.—[A briof description of Bodh-Gaya 00011 
briefly on the life of Gautama Bodha with specia 
reforonce to the Mahabodhi-Temple.] Pages 16. Pub- 
lishod by the Dopartment of Publications, Bihar. [21st 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. /Uustrated. 
Rupee 1. 


K. C. Bose, The Binani Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand 
Road, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


English—Industry. 


309. Achiovemonts of Private Enterprise in 1947- 
52.—[A survey of tho progress of old and new private 
onterprisos of India made during 1947-52 with emphasis 
on tho need of developing the indastrios furthor to 
develop the country’s economy to its full staturo.] 
Pages 16. Published by Employers’ Association, 15 
Park Street, Calcutta. [5th June, 1953.] Demy 4to. 
Ist edition. Rupee ۰ 


K. 0, Bose, Binan) Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand Road, 
Calcutta. 3,500 copies. 


310. Srivasan, K. 8. (M.A., MSe.)—A Shore 
Guide to tho Industrial Section Gallorios of the Indian 
Museum. [Contains miscollaneous information of the 
Industrial Section, Indian Museum, Calcutta.] Pages 19. 
Published by the Trustees, Indian Museum, Calcutta. 
[18th April, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Istedition. /Iustrated. 
10 annas. 


K. C. Bose, The Binani Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand Road 
Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


11-۰ 
English—Language. 


Educational— 


311. Banerjoa, P. C.—Goldon Book of Pros 
and Poetry, The, Part TV—{An Inglish reader in prose 
and vorse intended for the pupils of class ৬11 of High 
English Schools.) Payos 81120, Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, for Eastern Publishers’ 
Sundicate, Ltd., 8-C, Ramanath Mazumder Street, 
Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 1952-53A.D. [11th April,1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 15thedition. Illustrated. Rupee 
1-4 annas. 


Tridibosh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohondra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,500 copies. 


312. Banerjoa, P. C.—Golden Book of Prose & 
Poctry, Part V, Tho—{An English reader in prose and 
pootry intended for the students of class VITI of High 
English Schools.] Pages 64 134. Publishod by Jitendra 
Nath Mukhorjeo for Eastorn Publishers’ Syndicate, Ltd., 
8-C, Ramanath Mazumder Stroet, Calcutta. 1359 Sal or 
1952-58A.D. [31st March, 1953.] Doublo Crown 
160. 13th edition. Illustrated. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mobondra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copios. 


313. Ghosh & Chakrabartti, Profs.—Notes on School 
Final English.—[Poetical Selections. For the candi- 
dates for 1955.] General Editor: Prof. J. N.Chakra- 
bartti, M.A. Pagos 192. Published by Balai Lal Sen, 
Sen Brothers & Co., 15 Colloge Square, Calcutta. 
[10th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16200. 2nd edition. 
Rupees 3. 


Kshirode Chandra Pan, New Saraswati Press, 17, 
Bhim Ghose Lano, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


314. Golden Book of Prose and Poetry, The.— 
[Part IV. Intended for the students of class VII of 
High English Schools.] Compiled by P. C. Banerjoa. 
Pages 128. Published by Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 
for Eastern Publishers’ Syndicate, Ltd. 8-C, Ramanath 
Mazumdar Strect, Calcutta. [6th March, 1963.] 22” x 
32”. 14th edition. Illustrated. Kupee 1-4 annaa. 


Tridibosh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 
11 Mohondra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 4,460 copies. 


816. Guba, P.K., (M.A.)—Simple English Grammar 
—[A Grammar intended for pupils of classes VIT ۵ 
VIIT in West Bongal and Assam.] Pages .9۔8‎ 
Published by Brindaban Dhar & Sons, Ltd., 5 College 
Square, Calcutta. (27th April, 1953.] Double Crown 
16770. 28th Reprint (Revised edition). Rupoes 2-4 
eannas. 


P. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5 Collego Square, 
Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


316. Gulliver’s Travols—|{Tho well known story of 
Gulliver's Travel of Jonathan Swift describing 
Gulliver’s voyage to Lilliput with circumstances 
Gulliver faced thoré at. Abridged by Bimal Bihari 
Banorjee, M.A. (Cal.), B.Lit. (Oxon), An English Reador 
for the candidates of §. |, Examination of 1955.] Pages 
96. Published by Bimal Bihari Banerjee, 4/1/2B, 
Radhaprasad Lane, Caleutta. [15th May, 1953.] Crown 
8vo, 2nd edition. llustrated. Rupee 1:=4 annas. 


P. C. Chatterjee, Modern Art Pross, Calcutta. 21,000 
copies, 


317. Our School Final English Notes (1954, 1955)— 
[Due Part.] Pages 16. Publishod by N. C. Mukherjee, 
for Messrs. Son, Ray & Co., Ltd., Book Sellers & Pub- 
lishers, 15 College Square, Calcutta. [4th April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 

D. Mitra, Son Press, Ltd., 6 Shibnarain Das Lane, 
Calcutta. 15,000 copios. 


27 
E nglish—Language—concld. 


Educational— 


318. Roy & Mukherjoo, Profs.—Holps to the Study 
of Bernard Shaw's Arms & The Man.—{A holp book 
for students.) Pages 116. Published by Bipin Chandra 
Mukhorjoe, 27/2 Cornwallis Struct, Calcutta. [20th 
April, 1963.] Double Crown 16mo. 910 odition. 
Rupees 2. 


B. N. Bose, Bose Press, 30 Brojo Nath Mitra Lane, 
Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


319. Stevonson, R. L.—Troasuro lsland—{Rapid- 
Reader for the candidates of School Final Examination 
for 1965.] Pages 8+176. Publishod by Amalendu 
Banorjec, 2 College Square, Calcutta. (23rd April, 
1953.) 22°x21"—l16mo. Second edition. Uustrated. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


۶ C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 7,200 copies. 


320. Sukumar Banerjee—Practical English Grammar 
& Composition.—[For classes VII to X.] Pages 344. 
Published by Jitendra Nath Ray for Eastern Publishers’ 
Syndicate, Ltd., 8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, 
Calcutta-9. [8th March, 1953.] 22°32” Size. 7th 
edition. Rupees 3-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, B.A., Tho K. P. Basu Printing 
Works, 11 Mohendra Gossair Lane, Calcutta. 17,500 
copies. 


English—Law. 


321. Pal, R. B., (8.4 LL.D.)—lIntornational 
Military Tribunal for the East.—(Contains full text 
of the dissentient judgmont of Justice Radha ۹ 
Pal (the author of the book) of India in the case of the 
United Statos of America and other alliod powers 
versus Araki Sadao and others, commonly called the 
Tokyo War Crimes Trial, tried by the International 
Military Tribunal for the Far East at Tokvo after the 
World War II. With pictures of the loarned judges 
constituting the Tribunal, the accused persons, the 
Court room at Tokyo, some of the svenes at the trial 
and of Hiroshima and Nagasaki after thoir destruction 
by Atum bombs.] Pages 244+-704-+-(55 Pictures.) Pub- 
lished by R. N. Sanyal, 1/1A College Square, Calcutta. 
[9th May, 1953.}] Rayal ৪8৮০, Ist edition. 10758170466. 
Rupees 40, 


P. C. Ray, Sri Gouranga Pross, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


322. Sengupta, S., (M.A., G.D.A., A.L.C.W.A., F.C.A.) 
—Audit Caso Laws.—([Contains a number of 
Case Laws as decided upon.] Pages 64. Published by 
Prof. Lokaranjan Dasgupta, on bohalf of Publication 
Section, City College, Commerce Dopartment, 13 
Mirzapur Street, Calcutta-12. [16th May, 1963.) 
Demy 8vo. Ist edition. Kupess 2-8 annas. 


Dobondra Nath Bag, The Brahmo Mission Press, 211, 
Cornwallis Stroet, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


323. West Bongal Act VI of 1953. The Calcutta 
Thika Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1953.—[Contains 
rovisions of the act as passed by the West Bengal 
0511 Pages 4. Published by Sushil Kumar 
Mukherjee, 82, Nawab Sultan Alam Road, Tollygunge, 
Calcutta. (20th April, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 


Krishna Lal Banorjee, South Calcutta Job Printors, 
4 Raja Basanta Roy Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copion, 


28 


Engilsh—Mathematics. 


Educationa]— 


324, Das, B.C., (M.Sc.) and B.N. Mukherjee, (M.A.)— 
Differential Caleulus—{A text-book on Differential 
Calculus designed to assist students preparing for B. A. 
and B.Sc. Examinations.] Pages 16+382. Published 
by Upendra Nath Dhur, for U. N. Dhur & Sons, 64. 
15, Bankim Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. 1952-53A.D. 
(6th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 3rd edition. 
Rupees 6-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, B.A., The K. P. Basu Printing 
Works, 11 Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 3,300 
copies. 


325. Jadav Chandra Chakravarti, (M.A.)}—Arith- 
motic.—[Intended for students of Schools and Colleges.] 
Pages 24+2+3431524164432. Published by A. 0. 
Chakravarti. 1952-53A.D. [8th June, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. 19th edition. Rupees 4-8 annas. 


Atul Chandra Chakravarti, Bharat Mihir Press, 85 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 15,000 copies. 


326. Kalipada Basu, (M.A.)—Algebra Made Easy— 
[Indended for candidates for the Matriculation Exa- 
mination.] Pages 16+-608. Published by J. K. Basu 
and T. Basu, 11 Mohendra Gossain.Lane, Calcutta. 
1952-53A.D. [14th March, 1953.) 22? x32"—l6mo. 
55th edition. Illustrated. Rupees 6. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 
11 Mohendra Gossain Lane, Caloutta. 10,500 copies. 


327. Kar, K. C., (D.Sc.)—Statistical Mechanics 
(Principles and Applications.)\—[Deals in two parts 
with the principles of classical, quantum and wave 
Statistics and the কা of classical and quantum 
Statistics to problems in Physics and Chomistry. 
IUustrated by eighty tables and curves.,] Pages 550. 
Published by A. C. Dasgupta, C/o Das Gupta & Co., Ltd., 
54-3 College Street, Calcutta. [5th March, 1953.] 


Tridibesh Basu, B.A., The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 
11 Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


English—Medicine. - 


Educational— 


328 Haraprasanna Bhattacharyya—Hand Book of 
Medical Parasitology—{‘‘With 7 plates (1 coloured) and 
30 illustrations.’’ Intended for students and practi- 
tioners.} Pages XIV+2-+160. Published by Ranu- 
Bhattacharyya, N. K. D. Library, 11, Krishnaram 
Bose Street, Calcutta. [15th April, 1953.] Double Demy 
16700. Ist edition. JUustrated. Rupees 8. 


M. K. Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2, Nyayaratna Lane, 
Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


English—Miscellaneous. 


329. Ali India Women's Conference Association.— 
{Contains presidential address delivered by Srimati 
Renuka Ray on the occasion of Silver Jubilee Session 
(1953) held at Poona on the 2nd May, 1953.] Edited by 
Mrs. Renuka Ray. Pages 16. Published by Srimati K. 
Kuppuswamy, All India Women’s Conference, Bom- 
bay. [28th April, 1953.) Double Demy 16mo. lst 
edition. 

P. C. Ray, Shri Gouranga Press, 5, Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


330. Annual Report for the period of June 1952-— 
12th May, 1953. (The Indian Journalista Association.) 
—(Contains report ‘of activities of the Association toge- 
ther with the roll of members.] Compiled by Seoretary, 


English—Miscellaneoust—conid. 


D. N. Das Gupta. Pages 2+30. Published by the 
Compiler, 249 بط‎ Bowbazar Street, Calcutta. [2lat 
02 Double Domy 16mo. Ist edition. Julua. 
trated. 


P. 0. Ray, Shri Gouranga Press, Ltd., 5 Chintamani 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


331. Geoffrey Tyson—Bengal Chamber of Com- 
merce & Industry, 1853-1953. A Centenary survey. 
Pages 220. Published by the printer, for the Bengal 
Chamber of Commerce & Industry, The Statesman, Ltd., 
Calcutta. [12th March, 1953.] Demy 8vo. 18 edi- 
tion. Illustrated. Rupees 10. 


D. A. Lakin, Bengal Chamber of Commerce and 
Industry, The Statesman, Ltd., Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


332. Indian Insurance Companies Association, Cal- 
cutta. Report of the Committee for the period ended 
3lst December, 1952. Pages 21. Published by the 
Secretary, Indian Insurance Companies Association, 
23B, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. [13th March, 1953.] 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 


K. C. Bose, Binani Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand Road, 
Calcutta. 200 copies. 


333. Institution of Engineers (India), The. [Con- 
tains regulations of the Council of Institution of Engi- 
neers (India).] Pages 14. Published by P. P. Adalja, 
B.E., M.R. San. I., M.I.E., 8 Gokhale Road, Calcutta, 
[5th May, 1953.] Royal8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 3. 

K. C. Bose, Binani Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand Road, 
Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


334. Investors India Year-Book 1953, The. ([Con- 
tains useful information about business world interesting 
to investors.] Compiled by Place, Sidons and Gough. 
Pages 74-++379. Published by Orient Longmans, Ltd. 
17, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta. (23rd April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 8vo. 39th edition. Rupees 20. 


S. N. Guha Ray, Sree Saraswaty Press, Ltd., 32, 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,000 cipies. 


335. Lahiri, 8. K.—Calcutta Police Hand Book 
Part I{1.—{For Examination for promotion of A. 9,1৮০ 
S.1.] Pages 63. Published by the author,, Law Book 
Society, 4A, Wellington Square, Calcutta. [28th April 
1953.] Double Crown 16090, Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


Brojendra Kishore Sen, Modern India Press, 7 
Wellington Square, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


336. New Year Book 1953, The—[A collection of 
political, economic, educational, social and various other 
information.) Edited by P.C. Sarker. Pages 38+332. 
Published by 7১, C. Sarker, 1/C, College Square, Calcutta. 
1952-53 A.D. [12th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupees 3-4 annas. 


P. C. Ray, Shri Gouranga Press, Ltd., 5 Chintamani 
Das Lane, Caleutta. 2,200 copies. 


337, Presidential Address of Shri N. M. Medora at 
the 17th Annual General Meeting of The Indian In- 
surance Companies Association held on Thursday, the 
9th April, 1953. [With miscellaneous information 
concerning the companies.] Pages 7. Published by the 
Secretary, Indian Insurance Companies Association, 
23, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. [lst April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 8vo. 186 edition. 


K. 0, Bose, Binani Printers, Ltd., 38 Strand Road, 
Calcutta-1. 200 copies. 


II— 1963. 
English—Miscellaneous—concld. 


338. Rabindranath Tagore—Religion of an Artist, 
The—[A study of the author’s mode of life, philosophy of 
religion, taste of poetry and art of music.] Pages 6-7۰ 
Published by ۶. B. Sen, 6/3, Dwarkanath Tagore Lane, 
Calcutta. [98th April, 1953.] Double Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupee ۰ 


P. 0. Ray, Shri Gouranga Press, 5 Chintamani Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 2,100 copies. 


339. Satis Chandra Mukherjee and The Dawn 
Magazine (1897-1913)—[{Contains the history of the 
Magazine with special reference to Satis Ch. Mukher- 
jee’s contribution to it.] Edited by Haridas Mukherjee. 
Pages 12. Published by Uma Mukherjee, Siksha- 
tirtha Karyalaya, 9/2, Fern Place, Calcutta-19. 
[24th April, 1952.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


P. C. Ray, Shri Gouranga Press, Ltd., 5, Chintamani 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 200 copies. 


340 Sarker, বি. C.—Hindustan Year-Book, 1953.— 
[A collection of political, economic, educational, social 
and various otherinformation.] Pages 20 +615. Pub- 
lished by S. Sarker, 14 Bankim Chatterjee Street, Cal- 
cutta. [18th April, 1953.) Double Crown l6mo. 21st 
edition. Rupees 4. 


B. N. Bose, Bose Press, 30, Brojo Mitra Lane, Cal- 
outta. 20,000 copies. 


{Previous issue noticed in entry No. 345 at page 26 
of the Catalogue for quarter ending March 1952.) 


341. Thacker’s Indian Directory of India and Pa- 
kistan 1951-53—[With miscellaneous information 
about India and Pakistan.] Pages 1683. Published by 
the printer, Thackers Press and 10179001199, Ltd., 6, 
Bentick Street, Calcutta. [22nd May, 1953.] Crown 
4to. 90th edition. Jllustrated. Rupees 45. 


H. Augustin, Superintendent, Thacker’s Press & 
Directories Ltd., 6, Bentick Street, Calcutta. 1,500 
copies. 


[Previous edition not received.] 


English—Philosophy. 


342. Cherlotte Manning—Story of Indian Philoso- 
phy, The—[Deals with the philosophy of the Upanishads 
and the six systems of Indian philusophy with a 
sketch on the teachings of the Bhagavad 
Gita.] Pages 120. Published by 8. Gupta, for Susil 
Gupta (India), Ltd., Caloutta. 35, Chittaranjan Avenue, 


Calcutta. [3196 March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
lst edition. Rupees 3. 
B. K. Sen, Modern India Press, 7, Wellington Square 
Calcutta, 1,100 copies. ۱ 
Educational— 


343. Kalidas Bhattacharyya, (M.A., Ph.D.)— Alter- 
Native Standpoints in Philosophy—[‘An enquiry into the 
Fundamental of Philosophy’’.]| Pages 366. Published 
by the author, Das Gupta & Co., 64-3, College Street, 

cutta. [27th April, 1953.] Demy 8vo. 186 edition. 
Rupees 10-8 annas. 


Kulidas Bhattacharyya, Serampore Press, Patiha- 
hantala Lane, Seramporo, Hooghly. 500 copies, 


29 
English—Philosophy—concld. 


344, Kalidas Sen, (M.A., B.L.)—Elements of Logio 
(Inductive), The—[A text-book on Inductive Logio 
designed to assist students preparing for the Interme. 
diate Examination.] Pages 14+338. Published by 
P. Sen, 20/1, Padda Pukur Road, Calcutta. 1952-53 
A.D. [15th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 7th 
edition. Rupees 4. 


M. K. Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna Lane, 
Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


English-—Political Science. 


345. Roy, M. N.—Reason, Romanticism and Revo- 
lution. Vol 1.—[Said to present ‘‘a revolutionary social 
philosophy’’ and to be “an attempt to rescue rationa- 
lism and ethics from the devastating consequences of 
scepticism’’, A critical study of different trends of 
thought movements in Europe conditioned by religion, 
acience and social and political events from time to time 
since the earliest time in order to show how human 
mind has struggled for the triumph of rationalism.) 
Pages 3+-307. Published by Sibnarayan Ray on 
behalf of Renaissance Publishers, Ltd., 15, Bankim 
Chatterjee Street, Calcutta. [18th April, 1953.] Royal 
8vo. Ilstedition. Rupees 10-8 annas. 


B. N. Bose, Bose Press, 30 Brojo Mitter Lane, Calcutta. 
2,200 copies. 


English—Religion. 


346. Sen, A. C., [M.A., L.L.B. (Cal.), Ph.D. (Ham- 
burg.)|—[Elements of Jainism. Contains a brief, 
critical and lucid account of some of the features of the 
history, teachings and literature of the Jainas.] Pages 
86. Published by Bani Munshi, Indian Publicity 
Society, 21, Balaram Ghosh Street, Calcutta. [24th 
June, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition. 
Rupees 5. 


Kalidas Munshi, Pooran Press, 21 Balaram Ghosh 
Street, Calcutta. 300 copies. 


347. Teachings of Swami Vivekananda—{ Collec- 


, tion of teachings of the Swami] Edited by Swami 


Yogeshwarananda. Pages 270. Published by the 
editor, Advaita Ashrama, Mayavati, Almora, Hima- 
layas. (24th April, 1953.) Royal 16mo, 2nd 
edition. Rupees 3. 


B. N. Bose, The Bose Press, 30 Brojo Mitter Lane, 
Caloutta. 3,300 copies. 


[lst edition noticed in entry No. 397 at page 30 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending September, 1948.] 


English—Sclenee. 
Educational— 


348. Bhattacharya, B. and G. Bhattacharya— 
Elements of Physics—- [For Medical  students.] 
Pages 232. Published by Upendranath Dhur, U. N. 
Dhur and Sons, Ltd., 15, Bankim Chatterjee Street, 
Calcutta. [15th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
2nd edition. Illustrated. Rupees 5. 


Tridibesh Basu, B.A., K. P. Basu Printing Works, 
11 Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 1,250 copies. 


349. Ghosh, K. P.—Laboratory Hand Book of 
Physics— [Intended for B.Sc. students.) Pages 264. 
Published by the printer, 5, Sankar Ghosh Lane, Cal- 
outta. [23rd April, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. 6 
edition. Illustrated. Rupees 7-8 annas. 


Sauren Mitra, The Bodhi Press, 5, Sankar Ghosh 
Lane, Calcutta, 1,100 copies. 


English—8cience—concid. 


350. Guide to Zoology, A— [For B. Sc. Pass 
atudents.] Pages 256. Published by Jogendra Nath 
Sen, 208-2G, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. [4th April, 
1953.] Imperial 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 8. 

G. 0. Paul, New Mahamaya Press, 63-7, College 
Street, Calcutta and RK. K. Pan, Lakshmi Saraswati 
Press, 209, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta-6. 1,200 copies. 


English—Travel. 


351. Eastern Railway Time Table—[From 16th 
April, 1953.] Edited by K. B. Mathur. Pages 167. 
Published by the editor, Eastern Railway, Calcutta. 
[10th April, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 6 annas. 

H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway, Calcutta. 20,000 copies. 


$52. Eastern Railway Time Table. —-[In force from 
16th April, 1953.] Edited by K. B. Mathur. Pages 
128. Published by the editor, Eastern Railway, 
Calcutta, [10th April, 1953.] Royal 8vo. 186 edi- 
tion. 4 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern Rail- 
way, Calcutta. 55,000 copies. 


— 


353. Eastern Railway Suburban Time Table. How- 
rah Section.—[Pocket time table in force from 16th 
April, 1953.] Pages 44. Published by K. B. Mathur, 
General Manager, Eastern Railway, Calcutta. [10th 
April, 1953.] Royal 16mo. Ist edition, 2 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 24,000 copies. 


354. Eastern Railway Suburban Time Table. Seal- 
dah Section— [Pocket time table in force from the 
16th April, 1953.] Published by K. B. Mathur, General 
Manager, Eastern Railway, Caléutta. [J0th April, 
1953. [ Royal 16mo. Ist edition. 2 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Caloutta. 24,000 copies. 


355. Newman’s Indian Bradshaw. No. 1,047. 
April 1953—[A guide for railway and airway travellers 
in India, Pakistan and Ceylon, containing time and fare 
tables of all railways, steam navigation companies, all 
air and motor seryices to hill and health resorts.] Pages 
40+312. Published by the printer, Great Eastern 
Hotel, 3, Old Court House Street, Calcutta. [4th May, 
1953.) 8” x6". Ist edition. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


W. Newman and Co., Ltd., Great Eastern Hotel, 
8, Old Court House Street, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


356. Newman's Indian Bradshaw No. 1,048. May, 
1063. [A guide for railway and airway travellers 
in India, Pakistan and Ceylon, containing time and fare 
tables of all railways, steam navigation companies, all 
air and motor services to hill and health resorts.) Pages 
40+-312. Published by the printer, 3, Old Court House 
Street, Caloutta. [20th May, 1953.] 9x6". Ist 
edition. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


W. Newman and Co., Ltd., Great Eastern Hotel, 
3, Old Court House Street, Calcutta. 4,200 copies. 


357. Newman’s Indian Bradshaw No. 1,049. June, 
1953.— [A guide for railway and airway travellers in 
India, Pakistan and Ceylon containing time and fare 
tables of all railways, steam navigation companies, air 


TI—1953. 
Engiish—_Travel—concid. 


services, and motor services to hill and health resorts.] 
Pages 404-312. Published by the printer, Groat Eastorn 
Hotel, 3, Old Court House Street, Caloutta. [10th 
June, 1953.) 8“ ×۹۶ Int edition. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


W. Newman and Co., Ltd., Great Eastern Hotel, 3, 
Old Court House Street, Calcutta. 4,000 copies. 


Hindi—Games and Sports. 


358. ۴چ‎ tft ee — 


[Iakgmi Resim Gaid. Lakshmi Racing Guide. 
Calcutta Spring Meeting. Sixth Day. Saturday. 7th 
March, 1953. Contains race tips.] Pages 24. Pub- 
lished by A. P. Agarwalla, 370, Upper Chitpur Road, 
Calcutta. [7th March, 1953.] Demy 1600. Ist 
edition. 6 annas. 


P. C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 350 copies. 


359. ——-—. Summer Meeting. First Day. Wed- 
nesday. llth March, 1953. Pages 16. [llth March, 
1953.] Demy 8vo. Ist edition. 6 annas, 


P. C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 300 copies. 


360. . Second Day. Saturday. 14th 
March, 1953. Pages 20. [14th March, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 6 annas. 


P. 0. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, 
Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 300 copies. 


361, . Third Day. Saturday. 21st March, 
1953. Pages 24. [2186 March, 1958. [ Demy 16mo. 
18٦ edition. 6 annas. 


P. C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, Ltd., 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 300 copies. 


362. . Fourth Day. Saturday. 28th March, 
1953. Pages 24. [28th March, 1953.] Demy 16mo. 
Ist edition. 6 annas. 


P. C. Dey, Lakshmi Printing Works, 370, Upper 
Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 400 copies. 


Hindi—Poetry. 


86১, ٣۳۷۲۲ লালা 'পী- 


[Gavarji Mata, §ri. Mother Gaurja. Contains a 
number of devotional songs in honour of the (00088 
Parvati.] Pages 1+9%. Published by Brij Gopal 
Rathi, Secretary, Nibutalla Sporting Club, 14-1-1 
Sovaram Bysack Street, Calcutta, 2,010 Samvat. 
[20th March, 1953.] Double Crown 32mo. Ist 
edition. 

K. C. Bose, Binani Printers, Ltd., 38, Strand Road, 
Calcutta. 3,000 copies. 


Hindi—Travel. 


364. ga tea aaa আাতিন্া-_- 


[Pirva Relwe Samay Taliki. Eostern Railway 
Time Table. To be in force from 16th April, 1953 
Pages 230. Published by K. B. Mathur, General 
Manager, Eastern Railway, Calcutta. [15th May, 1953.) 
Royal 8vo. Ist odition. 4 annus. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Suporintendent, E. I. Railway 
Press, Calcutta. 4,500 copies. 


11-3. 
Nepall—Language. 


Educational— 
365. Parasmani Pradhan 


Pradhan—aqret atiger aftaa, teat লা 


[Nepali Sahitya Paricaya. Part II. A Nepali reader 
in prose and verse intended for students of class VIII.) 
Pages 4+142. Published by McMillan and Company 
Ltd., 204, Bowbazar Street, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. 
[18th April, 1953.] Crown 8vo. Ist edition. Jllus- 
trated. RKupeo 1-12 annas. 


B. Page, I. 8. 8. D. Press, 95B, Chittaranjan Avenue, 
Calcutta. 3,000 copies. 


and Nagendramani 


Sanskrit— Religion. 


366. শ্রীমণ ভাগবত গীতা-_ 


[Srimadbhigavat 61:8. The Srimadbhagavata Gita. 
Contains the text of the famous religious work of that 
title.} Edited by Dwarikanath Dalal. Pages 204. 
Published by the editor, Harinam Prachar Samiti, 
5, Nimtala Ghat Street, Caloutta. [8th May, 1953.] 
95১32”. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Santi Ranjan De, Sri Lachhmi Press, 56-3, Nimtala 
Ghat Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Tibetan—Language. 


Educational— 
367. Tharchin, ٥.5 qv দু 1ا0 اہ ق۹‎ 5a Fx হই 
args cage | 


(“Bad Skad Kyi Sgrog Dpe Gnyis-pa Yonten Nyer 
Hphe! Shes Bya-ba Bshags So.” A “Tibetan Second 
Book.’’] Pages 4+4+86. Published by the printer, 
Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri. 19653. [lst March, 1953.) 
Double Crown 16110, Ist edition. Hlustrated. 
Rupee 1-12 annas. 


G. Tharchin, Tibet Mirror Press, Kalimpong, Jal- 
paiguri. 1,000 copies. 


BI-LINGUAL BOOKS. 


Arabic and Bengalil—Religion 


368. Abdur Rahman—atem cates তওহীদ বা ওয়াজ جم‎ 


(পথম ভাগ)-- 


[Bangla Khotva taohid va 008] 8085 (Pratham 
Bhig.) Bengali sermon on Oneness of God or learning 
or preaching (Part I). Contains short hadith 
(Traditional sayings of Prophet Mohammad) in Arabi, 
short paragraphs from the Holy Koran, sermons, etc., 
on prayer, fasting, pilgrimage, etc., for the observance 
of the Muslims.] Pages 100. Published by the author, 
Achra, P. O. Amrita Kunda, Murshidabad. (20th 
February, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Rafiqul Hasan, Koran Prachar Press, 9, McLeod 
Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


369, Ahmed Ali—ryqntz সঃ এর (۹1۹ر6۱۹۹‎ ও মুজির পথ-_ 


(Rasulullah (9৮.) er bhavigyadvani 0 Muktir Path. 
Prophet's prophecy and way of salvation. Dwels 
on the foretellings of Prophet Mohammad with quota- 
tions from the Holy Koran. Also touches upon the 
character of the friends and devotees of the Prophet 
and the succeeding Caliphs. Reference is also made 
to the violation of Islamio rules of conduct with parti- 
cular mention of the undesirable advancement and 


31 
Arabic and Bengali—Religion—concid. 


freedom of women-folk in violation of Islamic teachings.] 
Pages 124. Published by Md. Nuruzzaman, 7A, 
Congress Exhibition Road, Calcutta. [8th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16100, lst edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Md. Rafiqul Hasan, Koran Prachar Press, 9, 
McLeod Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


370. Ruhul 41011) নাষাজ শিক্ষা — 


[Némij 81855, Teaching of Namaz. Contains 
instructions on Namaz in its various forms. Also dis- 
cusses other matters closely connected with it.] Pages 
168. Published by Syeeda Khatoon, Basirhat, 24-Par- 
anas. [186 May, 1953.] Demy 8৮০. 69) edition. 
upees 2. 
Mohammad Rafiqul Hasan, Koran Prachar Prensa, 
9, McLeod Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


311. Ismail, A. S. M., 8993- দীনিয়াত শিক্ষা-_ 


[Diniyat-Siksa. Religious _ teaching. Contains 
instructions of the religion of Islam. Intended for the 
studonts of 01888 V of East Pakistan.] Pages 98. 
Published by Jiban Babu, Mohan Library, Faridpur. 
(10th December, 1953.) Double Crown 16mo, Ist 
edition. 14 annas., 


Md. Rafiqui Hasan, Koran Prachar Press, 9, 
McLeod Street, Caloutta. 2,200 copies. 


372. Mohammad Idris—cetrata ও দীনিয়াত শিক্ষ।--- 


[Koran O Diniyat Sike&. The Holy Koran and re- 
ligious teachings. Intended for the students of class 
V of the schools of East Pakistan.] Pages 86. Pub- 
lished by the author, Dawakhana Press, Feni, Noa- 
khali, East Pakitsan. [10th December, 1052. [ Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupee 1 


Md. Rafiqul Hasan, Koran Prachar Preas, 9, 
McLeod Street, Caloutta. 2,200 copies, 


Assamese and Bengali—Languago. 


373. Sudhansu. Mohan 
সাহিতা-_- 


[Asamiyé Sahitya. Assamese Literature. An essay 
on the history of development of Assamese literature 
given in six marked periods. ‘“ Viswa-Vidya Sangraha '' 
series.} Pages 4+62. Published by Pulin Behari 
Sen, Viswa Bharati, 6/8, Dwarakanath Thakur Lane, 
Calcutta. Phalgun 1359 ৪81. [llth April, 1953] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Prabhat Chandra Roy, Sri Gouranga Press, Ltd., 5, 
Chintamani Das Lane, Calcutta. 3,100 copies. 


[81105 010801)0858 -অসমীয়। 


Assamese and Engiish—Mathematics. 


Educational— 


374. Kalipada Bose Prof., (0.4. সহজ বীজগণিত . 


[Sahaj Vijganit. An algebra intended for studenta of 
classes VII to X.}] Translated by Dianuddin Ahammad 
and Bhabesh Chandra Mukherjee. Pages 16444. 
Published by Jitendra Kumar Bose and Tridibesh Bose, 
11, Mahendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. 
(16th March, 1963.) 22১32, 16700. 7th edition. 
(T.) Rupees 4. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mahendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 7,500 copies. 


32 


Assamese and Sanskrit—Language. 


Educational— 


375. Notes on Matric Sanskrit Selections (In 
Assamese)—[Poetry (Complete) for 1955.) Pages 130. 
Published by B. N. Dutta Barooah, B.L., Lawyers 
Book Stall, Gauhati, Assam. [20th April, 19521 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 2. 


Tirtha Nath Paul, 66, Grey Street, Calcutta. 4,000 
copies. 


Bengali and English—Engineering. 


Educational— 


376. Answers to Questions Set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examination. Part I. [A help book for the 
candidates of Electrical Supervisors’ Examinations. ] 
Pages 4+-55. Published by Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 
8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. [lst April, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Jllustrated. 
Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


377. Answers to Questions Set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examination. Part III. [A help book for the 
candidates of Electrical Supervisors* Examination.] 
Pages 4+43. Published by Jitendranath Mukherjee, 
8-0, Ramanath Majumdar Street, Caloutta. [3rd March, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. lwustrated. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


378. Answers to Questions Set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examinations, Part IV. [A help book for 
the candidates of Electrical Supervisors’ Examinations. ] 
oy Ms 4+73. Published by Jitendranath Mukherjee, 
8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. [4th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16700. Ist edition. 410. 
lustrated. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P, Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


379. Answers to Questions set for Electrical Super- 
visors’ Examinations. Parts I] and XI. [A help book 
for the candidates of Electrical Superivsors’ Examina- 
tion.] Pages 4+63. Published by Jitendra Nath 
Mukherjee, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. 
[2nd April, 1953.] Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupees 
2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mahendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


Bengali and English—Language. 


Educational— 


380. Asutosh Dev—A Complete Key to Modern 
English Primer. Pages 78. Published by the author, 
22/58, Jhamapookur Lane, Calcutta. [8th April, 1953.) 
goth 207 ×30“ 7 Ist edition. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


N. 0. Mazumdar, B. P. M.’s Press, 22/5B, Jhamapoo- 
kur Lane, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


381. —— . A Complete Key to Nalanda 
Readers Primer. Pages 87. Published by the author, 
22/68, Jhamapooker Lane, Calcutta. 1952 A.D. [25th 
April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 18৮ edition. 
Rupee 1. 


K. P. Nath, Nath Brothers Printing Works, 6, Chalda 
Bagan Lane, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


TI—1953. 


Bengali and English—Language—conid. 
Educational— 


382. Asutosh Dev—A Key to My Karly Life. 
Pages 1+1+256. Published by A. T. Dev, Ltd., 22/5B, 
Jhamapooker Lane, Caloutta-9. 1952-53 A.D. [10৮ 
June, 1953.] 20°x30’—l16mo. Ist edition, Rupee 
1-8 annas. 


N. C. Mazumdar, B.P. M’s Press, 22/5B, Jnamapooker 
Lane, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


383.. —. Notes on Gulliver’s Travels. 
[A help-book on “A Voyage to Lilliput’’.] Pages 188. 
Published by the Author, 22/5B, Jhamakpooker, Lane, 
Calcutta. [19th May, 1953.] ~,th 20’x30". 1৪6 
edition. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


N. 0. Mazumdar, B. P. M.’s Press, 22/5B, Jhama- 
pooker Lane, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


384, Banerjee, P. C., Prof. (M.A., B.L.)—Practical 
Matriculation Translation—[Intended for students of 
classos VII to X.] Pages 10+112. Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar 
Street, Calcutta. 1952 A.D. [llth April, 1953] 
22” x 32”—16mo. 12th edition. Rupees 3-12 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 4,400 copies. 


385. —. A First Step to School Final 
Translation. [Intended for the students of Classes 
VII and VIII of High English schools.) Pages 
8+176. Published by Jayanta Basu. 8-C, Ramanath 
Mazumdar Street, Caloutta. 1359 sal or 1952-53 A. D. 
[9th March, 1953.] 227 ×32“. Ist edition. Rupec 1-8 
annas. 


Tribidesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Caloutta. 4,500 copies. 


386. ہب ہہ‎ A First Step to School Final 
Translation—[Intended for students of classes VII 
and VIII.] Pages 8+176. Published by Jayanta 
Basu, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Caloutta. 
1952 A.D. [28th March, 1958. [ 22”x32’—16mo. 
2nd edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


387. Due part to Notes on Intermediate Poetical 
Selections for 1954.—[A help book for candidates of 
Intermediate Examination.] Edited by” Prof. رت‎ 
Banerjec (M.A.). Pages 153 to 272. Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar 
Street, Calcutta. [27th March, 1953.] Double Crown 
16mo. Ist edition. 


Tridebesh Basu, 11, Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 
10,500 copies. 


388. Due Part II to Notes on School Final Selections 
from English Prose for 1954. [A help-book for the 
candidates of School Final Examination]. Edited by 
Prof. M. Sen, M.A. Pages 288-470. Published by 
N. 0. Mukherjee for Messrs, Sen, Ray & Co., Ltd., 15, 
College Square, Calcutta. [8th May, 1953.] Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 


D. Mitra, Sen Press, Ltd., 6, Shibnarain Das Lane, 
Calcutta. 26,000 copies. 


389. Ghosh & Chakrabartti, Profs. Notes on School 
Final English Prose and Verse. [Proso for 1955.] 
Pages 320. Published by Bali Lal Sen, 15, College 
Square, Calcutta. [12th May, 1953.) Double Crown 
16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 3-8 annas. 


Khirode Chandra Pan, New Saraswati Provs, 17, Bhim 
Ghose Lane, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


TI— 1953. 


Bengali and English—Language—conid. 


Educational— 


390. Jiban Krishna Maity—Picture Word Book-— 
[An English Word Book intended for pupils of classes 
V to VIL.) Pages 2+137. Published by Kali Krishna 
Hazra, Barbaria, Midnapur. 1359 sal or 1952-53 
A.D. [9th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16100. 3rd 
edition. Illustrated. Rupee 1. 


U. N. Ray, Mirbahar Press, 37A, College Row, Cal- 
cutta. 4,400 copies. 


391. Krishna Kinkar Saha—Boys’ Primer. Part I. 
—[{An English Primer for beginners.) Pages 1+ 28. 
Published by the author, Jangipur. [19th February, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition, Illustrated. 
6 annas. 


Krishna Kinkar Saha, Bandhu Press, Jangipur. 
5,00 copies. 


392. Notes on Great Lives—[A help-book.] Pages 
1+87. Published by Malaya Kumar Das, 46, B. 8. 
Road, Behala. [7th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
lat edition. Rupee 1-4 annas, 


M. K. Mondal, Nabagouranga Pross, 104, Amherst 
Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


393. Notes on School Final English Selections 
Prose, 1955. [A help-book for the candidates of School 
Final Examination.} Edited by 8. Banerjee, Prof., 
M.A. Pages 1+326. Published by Jitendra Nath 
Mukherjee, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Caloutta. 
[16th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edition 
Rupees 3-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 22,500 copies. 


394. Notes on School Final English Seloctions Verse 
(1955). [A help-book for candidates for the School Final 
Examination.) Edited by Prof. S. Banerjee, M. A. 
Pages 1+280. Published by Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 
B.A., 8-C, Ramanath Mazumder Street, Calcutta. 
{18th March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 186 edi- 
tion. Rupees 3. 


Tridibesh Basu, B.A., The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 
11, Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 22,500 copies. 


305. Notes on Tales from Arabian Nights. [A 
help-book for the candidates of School Final Examina- 
tion.] Edited by 8. Banerjee, Prof., M.A. Pages 160. 
Published by Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8-C, Ramanath 
Mazumder Street, Calcutta. 1052 A.D. [llth April, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupee 1-8 
ئ٣‎ 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 7,500 copies. 


396. Sen and Banerjee, Profs.—Helps To The Study 
of Treasure Island—{A help-book on Troasure Island]. 
Pages 84. Published by N. Mukherjee, 2, College 
Square, Calcutta. [30th May, 1953.] Double Crown 
16mo, 196 edition. 12  annas. 


S. B. Mallik, Bani Press, 16 Hemondra Sen Street, 
Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


397, Srikumar Banerjeo, (M.A., Ph.D.)—A First 
Step to School Final Grammar. [Intended for pupils 
of classes VII and VIII.] Pages 4+2+178. Pub- 
lished by Jayanta Basu, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumder 
Street, Calcutta, [13th March, 1053, 1 22“ ×82“. Ist 
9010100. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calaytta, 6,608 popies. 


33 


Bengali and English—Language—conid. 
Educational— 


398. Srikumar Banerjee (M.A., Ph.D.) A First Step 
To School Final Grammar. [Intended for pupils of 
classes VII and VILI.] Pages 6+178. Published by 
Jayanta Basu, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumder Street, 
Calcutta. 1952 A.D. [3rd April, 1953.) 29৮22 
16mo. 2nd edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 5,500 copies. 


Bengali and English—Mathematics. 


Educational— 


399. Basu, K. P. and D. P. Ghose—atgfts জ্যামিতি-- 
اوہ‎ ¢e— 


[801570010 58001610875 Ist-4th. A Book of 
Geometry intended for the pupils of classes VII to X.] 
Pages 9+372. Published by Jitendra Kumar Basu, 
B.A., and Tridibesh Basu, B.A., 11, Mohendra Gossain 
Lane, Calcutta. [14th March, 1953.] Double Crown 
16710. 24th edition. Jlustrated. Rupees 3. 


Tridibesh Basu, B.A., The K. P, Basu Printing Works, 
11, Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta, 15,500 copies. 


400. Jadab Chandra Chakravarty, (8.4) পবেশিক 


বীজগণিত-_- 


{Pravesiké Vijganit. An algebra intended for pupils 
of classes VII to X.] Pages 2+2+560+48-+-16. 
Published by Atul Chandra Chakraverty, 85, Uppor 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1359 sal or, 1952-53 A.D. 
{27th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 13th edi- 
tion. Rupees 4. 


Atul Chandra Chakraverty, Bharat Mihir Jantra, 85, 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


401. Kalipada Basu, Prof., (11.4.)- সহ বীজগপিত-_- 


- (Sahaj Vijganit. Algebra intended for students of 


classes VII to X.] Pages 16+544. Published by 
Jitendra Kumar Basu and Tridibesh Basu, 11, Mohendra 
Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. [10th March, 
1953.) 22” ×82“ 2186 edition. Rupees 4. 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 15,500 copies. 


402. Mushfikurh Rahaman—etgfre পাটীগপিত-_ 


[Adhunik Patiganit. A book of mathematics intended 
for students of classes VII to X.} Pages 16+-608+-56. 
Published by Alhajja Abul Fazal Mohammad . Isla- 
mia Library, Calcutta and Dacca. 1359 s&l or 1952-53 
A.D. [6th April, 1953.) Imperial 16mo. 2nd edition. 
Illustrated. Rupees 5. 


Tirtha Nath Paul, Nabajiban Press, 66, Grey Street, 
Calcutta. 10,500 copies. 


403. Phani Bhusan 110089119০0 জ্যামিতি প্রবেশিকা 
[Jyimiti—Pravesiké. Parts I-IV. A book on Geo- 
motry, intended for the candidates of School Final 
Examination.] Pages 373. Published by P. C. Ghose, 
Caloutta-31. [12th May, 1953.] Double Crown 1émo. 
Ist edition. Jllustrated. Rupees ও. 


Khirode Chandra Pan, New Saraswaty Press, 17, 
Bhim Ghosh Lane, Calcutta-6, 3,300 copies, 


34 
Bengall and English —Miscellaneous. 


404, Bimal Chandra Ray Mahashay—Land of My 
Sires—{A brief history of The Mahshay Family of 
Bahurda, a little village of West Bengal.) Pages 46. 
Published by the author, Arar Bazar, Balasore. [15th 
April, 1953.] Demy 8vo. 1st edition. 


D. N. Bag, Barbmo Mission Press, 211, Cornwallis 
Street, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


405. ট্টাঙার্ড ভ্যাক'যাম এয়প্রয়িজ ইউনিয়ন বাঘিক সম্মেলন ১৩ই জুন 
১৯৫৩ 


[9(90810 131)/8100787) emplayij iuniyan ٣ة‎ 
Sammelan. 13th June, 1953. Annual Meeting of 
Standard Vacuum Employees’ Union of June 13, 1953. 
Report of the General editor on the demand of the 
Union in respect of bonus facilities, formation of an 
independent Trade Union, reinstatement of the re- 
trenched employees, etc., etc.] Atin Sadhu, General 
Editor, Pages 10. Published by the Goneral editor, 
158, Muktaram Babu Strect, Caloutta. [13th June, 
1953.] Demy 8vo. 15৮ edition. 


Sunil Kundugrami, Janashakti Printers, 33, Ali- 
muddin Street, Caloutta, 1,500 copies” 


Bengali and English—Poetry. 


Educational— 


406. Enoch Arden (with Notes)—[A help-book on 
Lord Tennyson’s “Enoch Arden ۔ًز''‎ Edited by Prof. 
S. Banerjee, M.A. Pages 184145. Published by 
Jitendra Nath Mukherjee, 8-C, Ramanath Mazumder 
Street, Calcutta. 1952-53 A.D. [16th March, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist editiog, Rupee 1-14 annas, 


Tridibesh Basu, The K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gussain Lane, Calcutta. 7,500 copies. 


Bengali and English—Science. 


Educational— 
407. Pratu) Chandra Rakshit, (Ph.D.)—atafre রসায়ন 
বিজোন-_ 


[71801155711 Rasiyan Vijfiin. A book of Chemistry 
intended for students.] Pages 13+530+267. Pub- 
lished by Amiya Ranjan Mukherjee, 2, College Square, 
Caloutta. 1952-53 A.D). [16th April, 10953. [ Double 
Demy 16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupees 8. 


Mihir Kumar Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2, Nyayaratna 
Lane, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


Bengali and English- Sociology. 


408. রামযোহন গ্রশ্বাবলী, ৩য় খণ্ড 


[Rammohan-Granthabali-3ya Khanda. Works ০01 
Rummohan Part 3. Some discussions by way of 
questions and answers on sahamaran system (courting 
voluntary death of widows in the funeral pyres of their 
husbands) prevailing in Hindu society with an editorial 
annexed to introduce the subject.] Edited by Bra- 
jendra Nath Bandyopadhyay and Sajani Kanta Das. 
Pages 61. Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, Bangiya 
Sahitya Parisat. Sravan 1359 sal. [2186 October, 
1962.) 10” x64". Ist edition. Rupee 1-12 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta-37. 500 copies. 


TI—1953 
Bengali and Prakrit—Archaeology. 


409. Amulya Chandra Sen [Dr., M.A., B.L., Ph.D. 
(Hamburg.J—aetts লিপি-- 


[Asok-lipi. Inscriptions of Asoke. A study on the 
rock and pillar edicts as well as cave inscriptions 
atributed to the King Asoke and found at different 
places of India. Deals with the scripts, spirit and 
teachings of the inscriptions as well as the art of sculpture 
noticeable in this connection. Also gives the Pra- 
krit readings and Bengali translation of the inscriptions. ] 
Pages 2+168. Published by Miss Bani Munsi, Indian 
Publicity Society, 21, Bularam Ghosh Street, Caloutta. 
1953. [18৮ April, 1953.] Domy 8vo. Ist edition, 
Ilustrated. 550 copies. 


Kalidas Munsi, Puran Press, 2], Balaram Ghosh 
Street, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


Bengali and Sanskrit —Astronomy and Astrology. 


410. হরগোধী ste ys পিক, সন ১৩৬০ সাঁল--- 


{Hara-Gouri Gairhasthya Panjiki San 1360 Sal. Hara 
Gauri Domestic Almanac. 1360 B.S. A_ Bengali 
almanac for the year 1360 (58) or 1963-54 A. D. 
together with miscellaneous information.) Pages 356. 
Published by the printer, 57/2, Keshab Chandra Sen 
Street, Calcutta. (6th April, 1953.] Double Demy 
16mo. Ist edition. IJllustrated. Rupee 1. 


Aswini Kumar Das, Indu Printing Works, 57/2, 
Keshab Sen Street, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


411. নবগুহ পঞ্জিকা, সন ১৩৬০ MA— 


[Nava Graha Pafijiké, San 1360 Sal. Nava Graha 
Almanac, the year 1360 B.S. A Bengali almanac 
for the year 1360 (981) or 1953-54 A.D. with miscella- 
neous information.] Pages 298+16. Published by 
Bhabendranarayan Bhattacharjee, 16, Kashi Mitra Ghat 
Street, Calcutta. [30th March, 1953.] Double Demy 
16mo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupee 1-4 annas. 


Sudhir Kumar Das Gupta, Kamala Printing Works, 
3, Kashi Mitra Ghat Street, Calcutta. 40,000 copies. 


412, পি, এষ, বাকচির নতুন ডাইরেক্টরী পঞ্জিকা, সন ১৩৬০ নাল-_ 


[Pi. Em. Bakcir Natun Dairektari Paijjiké, San 1360 
sil. P. M. Bagchi’s New Directory Almanac for the 
year 1360 B.8. A Bengali almanac for the year 1360 
(981) or 1953-54 A.D. together with miscellaneous 
information.] Pages 22 +315. Published by Jyotirmoy 
Chatterjee, 19, Gulu Ostagar Lane, Calcutta. [2nd 
March, 1953.] Double Demy 16mo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-14 annas. 


Jyotirmoy Chatterjeo, India Directory Press, 384, 
Maszidbari Street, Calcutta. 110,000 copies. 


Bengali and Sanskrit—Miscollaneous. 


413. অদ্ভুত গুগুবিদ্যা সার-__ 


[Adbhut Gupta-vidya Sar. Essence of the wonderful 
secret knowledge. A collection of mantras (mystic 
formulae) believed to be efficacious in the treatmont 
of a few diseases, snake-bites, etc., as also in warding 
off various evil influences, attracting persons, ০6০ 
Compiled by Prankrishna Pal. Pages 68-1582. Pub- 
lished by Krishna Chandra Pal and Madan Gopal Pal, 
115, Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 1359 sal or 1952- 
53 A.D. [16th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo- 
Ist edition, Rupee 1-8 annas. 

Prankrishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45, Masjidbari Street, 
Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


II—1953. 
Bengali and Sanskrit—Miscellaneous—conc/d. 


414, কামাখ্য। তরসার__ 


[70871810778 Tantra Sar. The Essence of the Tantras said 
to have originated at Kamakhya. Contains a number of 
doggerel verses, a recitation of which accompained 
by certain prescribed actions is said to be able to 
produce miraculous effects as regards oure of diseases, 
destruction of enemies, driving away of evil spirits, eto.] 
Compiled by Prankrishna Pal, Tantrikacharyya. Pages 
1+4+144. Published by Krishnachandra Gupta and 
Madan Gopal Gupta, 115 Upper Chitpur Road, Calcutta. 
[16th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 18٦ edition. 
Rupee ۰ 


Prankrishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45 Masjidbari Street, 
Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Bengali and Sanskrit—Philosophy. 


415. Dineschandra Bhattacharyya—atrtta সারস্বত 
অবদান | পৃথম ভাগ | বঙ্গে নবান্যায়চচর্চা__ 


[Bangalir S&rasvat Avadin. Pratham Bhiag. Bange 
Navyanydyacarceé. Literary contributions of the 
Bengalees. Part I. Cultivation of Navyanyaya in 
Bengal, This part. contains researches showing names, 
family-history, erudition, works, etc., of Bengali scholars 
in Sanskrit of the past particularly those who were 
Naiydyikas of repute.] Pages 41-27-2324. Published 
by Sanatkumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya-Parishat, 
243-1 Upper Circular Road, Caloutta. 1358 Sal or 
1951-52 A.D. [29th May, 1952.) 10’x7}". Ist 
edition. Rupees 10. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Belgachhia, Calcutta. 


416. Pulinbihari Halder, (M.A.)—tzatficea চক্ষে গীতা ॥ 


পথম খণ্ড (TI পৃকাশ)--- 


[Vaijfidniker Cakge Gité, Pratham Khanda. Marmmir- 
tha Prakisé. The Gita in the eyes of Scienists. Part I. 
Revelation of the Essence. Discusses by way of 
conversution some fundamental tenets of the Gita 
and purports to say that Involution and Evolution 
are its main theme. Also attempts to expound the 
meaning of the Gayatrs and point out its relation 
with the teachings of the Gita.] Pages 64117. Pub- 
lished by the printer, 11 Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta. 
[28th May, 1953.] Double Foolecap 8vo. 1st edition. 
2,000 copies. 


Krishna Dhone Singha, Model Printing Works, 
11, Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


417. রামমোহন গ্রস্থাবলী। ১ম খণ্ড 


[Riémmohan 07815019558]. lma Khanda. The Works 
of Rammohan (Roy). Part I. This part contains the 
following viz., “Vedanta Grantha’’“ Vedantasar’’, 
*‘ Bhattacaryyer Sahit Vicar (i.c., Discourses with Bhat- 
tacharyya), Talabkar Upanishat, Isopanishat, Katho- 
panishat, Mandukyopanishat and Mundakopanishat, 
with Bengali translations.] Edited by Brajendranath 
Banarji and Sajanikanta Das. Pages 272. Published 
by Sanatkumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya-Parishat, 
Caloutta. 1358 981 or 1961-52 A.D. [Sth October, 
1951.] 10°63". 18৮ edition. Rupees 4-8 annas. 


রা Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra Biswas 
Road, Belgachhia, Calcutta. 450 copies. 


418. রামমোহন গ্রস্থাবলী ۱ ২য় te— 


[Rimmohan Granthavall. 298, Khanda. Tho Works 
of Rammohan. Part JI. This part contains discourses 

on some religio-philosophical topics between 
Rammohan and _ different contemporary scholars. 
ngali translations have been given in addition to the 
Original Sanskrit.) Edited by Brajendranath Banerji 
800 Sajanikanta Das. Pages 103. Published by 


35 
Bengali and Sanskrit—Philosophy—concld. 


Sanat Kumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya-Parishat, Cal- 
cutta, [29th July, 1952.) 10°x6}". 196 edition. 
Rupees 2. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


Bengali and Sanskrit—Religion. 


419. Bhupendranath 5٥7 آ۵‎ অভ্যাসযোগ-_ 


[Abhy&és-Yog. Concentration of the Mind through 
Practice. A collection of discourses on elementary 
principles of Hindu religious practice.) Edited by 
Arun Kumar Mukherjiand Sudhir Kumar Chakravarti. 
Pages 6+1-+ 317. Published by Arun Kumar Mukherji 
for Gurudhan Trust Estate, 4-1 Asu Biswas Road, 
Calcutta. 1360 Sal or 1953-54 A.D. [4th May, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. 3rd edition. Rupees 3. 


Mihir Kumar Mukherji, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 
[2nd edition not received Ist edition noticed in entry 
No. 93 at page 70 of the Catalogue for the quarter 
ending June, 1912.} 


420. ————. দিনচব্যা 


[Dinacaryyé. Due Observance of Daily Ceremonies. 
Deals with the daily seoular and religious duties of a 
Hindu and cites various hymns to gods and goddesses 
together with Bengali translation. Also contains a 
few devotional songs.} Edited by Arun Kumar 
Mukherji and Sudhir Kumar Chakravarti. Pages 11+ 
199. Published by Arun Kumar Mukherji for Gurudhan 
Trust Estate, 4-1 Asu Biswas Road, Calcutta. 1360 
98] or 1953-64 A.D. [15th April, 1953.] Double 
Crown I6mo. 6th edition. Rupee 1-12 annas, 


Mihir Kumar Mukherji, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna 
Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


(3rd and 4th editions not received 2nd edition noticed 
in entry No. 31 at page 98 of the Catalogue for the 
quarter ending March, 1912.) 


421. Binodbihari Bandyopadhyay and _  Pranati 
Sanyal—hy ভাগবত পরিচয় ও আলোচনা-__ 


(Srimadbhagavat Paricay 0 Alocan&i. The Srimad- 
bhagavat. Acquaintance and Discussions, J)eals in a 
connected way with the story and teachings of the 
Srimadbhagavat touching on different Skandhas and 
citing important Slokas by way of illustration. Also 
contains an introduction.] Pages 5+8+3+648. Pub- 
lished by Pranati Sannyal, B.A., 6 Kalicharan Seth 
Lane, Dum Dum, Calcutta-30. [2nd April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. Rupees 6. 


Gaur Chandra Pal, New Mahamays Press, 65-7 
College Street, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


422. Narottam Das Thakur, Sri Sri— forte 


চল্দিক।__ 

(Sri Sri Prem-Bhakti Candrikéa. Moonlight of Love 
and Devotion. A book on Vaishnav religion, expound- 
ing the cult of devotion.] Revised by Haridas Goswami, 
M.A., B.T. Pages 230. Published by Nagendra 
Kumar Ray, ‘“Anandaniketan’’, 3 Vaishnav Seth Street, 
Calcutta. 1359 881 or 1952-53 A.D. [17th April, 
1953.) Double Crown 160٠. 2nd edition. Rupees 
2-8 annas. 


Suresh Chandra Das, M.A., Abinash Press, 119, 
Dharmatala Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


[Ist edition noticed in entry No. 197 at page 88 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending December 1913.] 


96 
Bengall and Sanskrit—Religlon—concld. 


423. রামমোহন গৃগ্বাবলী। at te— 


[R&émmohan Granthivali—4tha Khanda. Tho Works 
of Rammohan—Part IV. This part contains Raja 
Rammohan Roy’s interpretation of the Gayatri, his 
translation of Sankaracharyya’s work entitled ‘‘Atma- 
naitmavivek’’ together with the text, devotional songs 
composed by him and his dissertations on miscellaneous 
religious topics.} Edited by Brajendranath Banerji 
and Sajanikanta Das. Pages 79. Published by Sanat 
Kumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya-Parishat, Calcutta. 
[28th September, 1052. [1 10৮6”, Ist edition. Rupee 
1-12 annas. 


Ranjan Kumar Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[Part III not received.) 


424. শ্রীযদ্‌ ভগবদ্‌ fho— 


[Srimadbhagavadgitéa. The Gita. Contains the toxt 
of the Gita together with Benyali translation and 
annotation by the Editor.] Edited by Lakshmi- 
narayan Chatarji, M.A., Vedasastri, etc. Pages 20+2. 
Published by the Editor, 45/2D, Rani Harshamukhi 
Road, P.O. Cossipore, Calcutta-2. [Ist April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 


Birendranath De, B.So., The Eastern Type Foundry 
and Oriental Printing Works, Ltd., 18 Brindaban Basak 
Street, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


425. Sukhamay Bhattacharya, (Sastri, Saptatirtha)— 
wat ftou— 


[Tantra-paricay. Acquaintance with the Tantras. 
Deals with the fundamentals of the Tantras citing 
quotations from different Tantrik works of importance. [ 
Pages 6+-1+97. Published by the pfinter, Santiniketan 
Press, Santiniketan, Birbhum. 1359 Sal or 1952-53 A.D. 
[25th March, 1953.] Demy 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 
2. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherji, Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 500 copies. 


426. Sukhatmananda—ster পুজা 


(Bhakter Piji. A Devotee’s Worship. A collection of 
a few hymns etlogizing different gods and goddesses, 
Sri Ramkrishna, Sarada Devi, etc., together with some 
religious instructions.] Pages 35. Published by the 
author, Sri Ramkrishna Sarada Math, Vill. Kusadanga, 
P.O. Bakulia Gram, Dt. Burdwan. [20th April, 1953.] 
41১৫5” 1/16th demy. Ist edition. 6 annas. 

Mrinalkanti Sen Gupta, Mahajati Printing Works, 
38, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


Bengali and Sanskrit— Sociology. 


427. কাষবিজ্ঞান ٭‎ সচিত্র রতিশাস্ত্র__ 


[18717511181 Va 99010 Ratiéistra. The Science of 
Erotica or Illustrated Sexology. Quotes Sanskrit texts 
on the subject mentioned in the title and gives their 
versified translation in Bengali as well as their essence 
in Bengali prose.} Translated by Pandit Sasibhushan 
Kaviratna and revised and enlarged by Pandit Kartik 
Chandra Vyakarantirtha, Pages 2+4+168. Pub- 
lished by the printer, 45 Masjidbari Street, Calcutta. 
20th March, 1953.) 5“ ×۶“. Ist odition. Illustrated. 
[Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Prankrishna Pal, Sasi Press, 45 Masjidbari Street, 
Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


II—1953. 
English and Hindli—Mathematics. 


Educational— 


428. Kalipada Bose [Prof., (M.A.)]—eee নীঅমাগিন--- 


[98181 Vijganit. An algebra intended for students of 
classes VII to X.] Translated by Jatindra Nath Sen. 
Pages 14+522+16. Published by J. K. Basu, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Caloutta. 1952-53 A.D. 
[13th March, 1953.) 22“ ×32“. 10th edition. (T.) 


Rupoces 4. 


Tridibesh Basu, .کا‎ P. Basu Printing Works, 1 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 20,500 copies. 


English and Nepali—Mathematics. 


Educational— 

429, অক্পমজিল-_ 

[Ankaganit. A Nepali version of Jadav Chandra 
Chakravarti’s work on arithmetic.] Revised and 


enlarged by Praphulla Chandra Chakrabarti, M.A., 
B.L., and Atul Chandra Chakravarti, B.Sc. Pages 
1+4+4+4+658 +78+32. Published by Atul Chandra 
Chakravarti, Sanyal and Company, 85, Upper Circular 
Road, Calcutta. [llth June, 1953.) Double Crown 
16mo. 2nd edition. (T.) Illustrated. Rupees 5. 


Atul Chandra Chakravarti, Bharat Mihir Press, 85 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


English and Oriya—Miscellaneous. 


430. Kunjabehari Das—Study of Orissan Folk-lore, 
A.—[Deals with folk-tales, folk-songs, prover)s, 
gods and goddesses, operas, vows, eto., current among 
the Oriyas, citing illustrations and giving their transla- 
tions into English with a foreward by Dr. P. 0. Bagchi.] 
Pages 84183. Published by the printer, Santiniketan 
Press, Santiniketan, Birbhum. [20th March, 1953 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 6. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum, 600 copies. 


English and Perslan—History. 


431. Memoirs of Jehangir—[The -posthumous 
papers of the late Sir H. M. Elliot. Contains sevon 
articles dealing with the history of the reign of Jahangir 
and an appendix containing the toxt of the Institutes of 
Jahangir and comments thereon.) Edited by Prof. 
John Dowson. Pages 8+256. Published by 9. Gupta, 
35 Central Avenue, Calcutta. [30th April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 16mo. Second edition. (T.) Rupees 2. 


M. Mukherjee, Temple Press, 2 Nyayaratna Jane, 
Calcutta, 1,200 copies, 


English and Sanskrit—Religion. 


432. Visva-Bharati Annals. Vol. V.—[A collection 
of two Buddhist religio-philosophical works, viz., (8) 
Abhidharmamrta of Ghogaka, translated into Sanskrit 
from the original Chinese and (4) Sammstiyanikaya 
Sastra in English, together with detailed introduction on 
each of them.] Edited by P. C. Bagchi, M.A., Dr 
Es Letters (Paris), F.A.S.B. Pages 4+8+4+242. Pub- 
lished by the Printer, Santiniketan Pross, Santiniketan, 
Birbhum. {20th May, 1953.) Royal 8vo. 186 edition. 
Rupees 12. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan 7۲۶۶۶, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 500 copies, 


ji—1953. 
TRI-LINGUAL BOOKS. 


Arabic, Bongali and English—Religion. 


433. Abul Hossain Nomani, Khondkar—vwvfentca ঈমান 
ব। শাস্তির আহবান--" 


[Daoyite Iman va Sintir ahvan. Invitation of faith or 
Call of peace. Discusses a number of matters con- 
cerning tho religion of Islam like the existence of only 
ono God. Works of Prophet Mahammad in correcting 
the ignorant Arabians for bringing them into the fold 
of the religion, etc. Also contains passages from the 
holy Koran, the holy Geeta and other books and sayings 
of the great men of different religions for the correction 
of human conduct and enlightenment of human mind. 
Pages 72. Published by the author, Kaya, Gaighata, 
24-Parganas. [5th May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. 12 annas. 


Rafiqul Hasan, Koran Prachar Press, 9 McLeod 
Street, Calcutta. 2,200 copies. 


434. Mojaffar Hosain, Syed, (B.A., B.T.)—cty ۱ 


দ্বিতীয় t9q—- 


[Ses-Vani. Dvitiya Khanda. Last message. Part II. 
Discusses the teachings of Islam in order to point out 
the evil effects of ‘Kufr (i.e. Materialism) and ‘Sherak’ 
(i.e.,  “Pseudo-Spiritualism’’) which have been 
denounced in the Koran and to show how far the teach- 
ings of the Koran aim at fostering the spirit of unity, 
equality and fellow-foeling in human beings for the 
peace and prosperity of the entire human society of the 
world irrespective of all differences of religion, nation- 
ality, etc., etc.] Pages 2+88. Published by the author, 
7A Circus Market Place, Park Circus, Calcutta. 1953. 
{26th March, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Mohammad Rafique Hasan, Koran Prachar Press, 9 
McLeod Street, Caloutta. 2,200 copies. 


[Part 1 noticed in entry No. 421 at page 37 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending September 1952.) 


Bengali, English and Hindi—Language. 


435. Ghosh, 9. K., (B.A.)—frete শব্দ বোধ__ 


[Tribhisi §abda-bodh. Knowledge of words in 
three languages. A word-book containing English and 
Hindi equivalents of Bengali words.] Pages 1+ 60. 
Published by Anil Kumar Ray, Kuroudini Pustakalay, 
247-2 Maniktala Main Road, Calcutta. [30th January, 
1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 12 annas. 

Upendra Nath Ray, Mirbahar Press, 37A, College 
Row, Calcutta. 3,300 copies. 


Bengali, English and Sanskrit—History. 


436. Girindrasekhar Basu—att yrrt— 


[Puran-Praveé. Introduction to the Puranas. Dis- 
cusses the historical basis of the incidents, etc., described 
in the Puranas.] Pages 18+306. Published by Sanat 
Kumar Gupta, Bangiya-Sahitya Parishat, 243-1 Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. [28th October, 1951.] 
10"x 74". 2nd edition. Rupees 6. 


Sajanikanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57 Indra Biswas 
ad, Belgachhia, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


[1st edition noticed in entry No. 715 at page 65 of tho 
Catalogue for the quarter ending December, 1934.] 


37 


Bengali, English and Sanskrit—Language. 
Educational— 


437. Bijoy Krishna Kavaya-tirtha, Kaviratna—1- 
cA — 


[Laghu-Kaumudi. A book of Sanskrit grammar and 
composition. Intended for the students of classes 
VIT and VIII.) Pages 210. Published by Jitendranath 
Mukherjee, Indian Associated Publishing Co., Ltd., 8-C, 
Ramanath Mazumdar Strect, Calcutta. [17th March, 
1909.] Double Crown 16mo. 9th edition. Rupees 
2-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 1 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 3,300 copies. 


438. 13. M. Mukherjee and R. Vidya-bhusan— 


Matriculation Sanskrit grammar and composition — 
[Intended for the students of classes VII to X.] 
Pages 494. Published by Dwijendranath Dhur, B.L., 
U.N. Dhur & Sons, Ltd., 15 College Square, Calcutta. 
(17th March, 1953.] 22”x32*. 3rd edition. Rupees 
3-8 annas. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mohendra Goxssain Lane, Calcutta. 494 copies. 


439. De, A. C., (B.A.)—Sanskrit Made Easy— 


[Intended for the Matric candidates appearing in 1954.] 
Pages 54+34+16+4123. Published by the author, 16, 
Hemendra Sen Street, Calcutta. [9th April, 1953.] 
Double Crown [6mo. 1954 edition. Rupees 2-8 annas. 


শি. B. Mallik, Bani Press, 16 Hemendra Sen Streot, 
Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


440. Due part to Notes ০01৮-সংস্কৃত-পাঠ-মাল। পণ্যাংশ 


(1955)— 

[A help book for the candidates for School Final Exami- 
nation, 1955.] General Editor: Prof. 3. Banerjee, M.A. 
Pages 246. Published by Jitendranath Mukherjee,8-C 


‘Ramanath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. [8th April, 


1953.] Double Crown 16mo, Edition for 1955. 


Tridibosh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 23,500 copies. 


441. Notes ০0%/--শংস্কৃত পাঠ ,ا816‎ পদ্যাংশ, 1955— 


[Notes on Samskrita-Path-mila—Padyimsa—1955. Con 
tains notes on School Final Sanskrit poetry selections for 
the year 1955.] Edited by Prof. S. Banerjee, M.A. 
Pages ۱1+234. Published by Jitendranath Mukherjee, 
B.A., 8-C Ramanath Majumdar Street, Calcutta. [17th 
March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 


Rupees 2. 
Tridibesh Basu, B.A., K. P. Basu Printing Works, 11, 
Mohendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 23,500 copies 


442. Notes ০%-সংস্কৃত পাঠ মাল।, পর্যাংশ (1955)— 


[Poetry Selections. Intended as help book for the 
candidates of School Final Examination.) General 
Editor : Prof. S. Banerjee, M.A. Pagea 120. Pub- 
lished by Jitendranath Mukherjee, B.A,, 8-C, Rama- 
nath Mazumdar Street, Calcutta. [16th March, 1955.] 
Double Crown .ح16‎ Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


Tridibesh Basu, K. P. Basu Printing Works, ,ا‎ 
Mohendra Gossain ane, Calcutta. 23,500 copies. 


88 
Bengali, English and Sanskrit—Philosophy. 


443. Hirendranath Datta, (M.A., B.L., Vedanta- 
₹৪৮)৪)--উপনিঘদ্‌ জড় ও জীবতত্ব-_ 


[Upanisad Jad 0 Jivatattva. The Upanishads. Truths 
about Matter and Life, Deals, quoting copiously from 
different Upanishads and writings of experts in the 
field, with the origin and method of creation, relation 
between matter and life, evolution of life, relation bet- 
ween the individual soul and the Supreme Being, 
immortality of the soul, the theory of rebirth, the state 
of a Jivanmukta, etc.] Pages 10+566. Published by 
Kanakendranath Datta, 139B, Cornwallis Strect, Cal- 
cutta. [2186 March, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 
Ist edition. Rupees 5. 


Tridivesh Basu, B.A., K. P. Basu Printing Works, 
1], Mahendra Gossain Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


Bengali, Prakrit and Sanskrit—Language. 


444. বৌদ্ধ গান ও দোহ।-- 


[Bauddha-Gin 0 Doh&. Buddhist songs and Dohas 
(couplets). Oontains four works in Bengali one thou- 
sand years old, namely “Caryicarya Viniscaya’”’ 
“Dohakoga”’ attributed to Sarojavajra, 10010810889? 
attributed to Kahnapad, and “D&ékarnava’’, together 
with their commentaries in Sanskrit and also with 
other readings and Bengali Exposition regarding the 
first-mentioned work. Also contains an appendix 
giving a glossary of old Bengali words used in the text 
with their meanings in modern Bengali and also an 
introduction by the editor.] Edited by Mahamahopa- 
dhyaya Hara Prasad Sastri, M.A., C.1.E. Pages 1-+ 
36-+-202+1 plate. Published by Sanat Kumar Gupta, 
Bangiya-Sahitya-Parisat, 243-1 Upper Circular Road, 
Caloutta. 1358 sil or 1951-52 A.D. [21st October, 
1051.) 10’x 74". 2nd edition. Illustrated. Rupees 
5. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Belgatchia, Calcutta. 450 copies. 


[1st edition noticed in entry No. 1 at page 97 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending September, 
1916.) 


MULTI-LINQUAL BOOKS. 
Bengali, Pali, Prakrit and Sanskrit—Religion. 


445. Prabodh Chandra Bagchi—care ধমর্ম ও সাহিত্য-_- 


([Bauddha-Dharma 0 Sahitya. Buddhist religion and 
Literature. Contains discussion on Buddhist literature, 
basic principles of Buddhism and different branches of 
Buddhist religion, viz, Hinayana, Mahayana and 
vajrayana, together with an appendix on the popularity 
of Buddhism as revealed in Buddhist literature in Pali, 
Tibetan, Chinese, Nepalese, Mongolian and in few other 
languages of Middle-Asia as 8150 on the importance of 
the well known religious work “Dharmmapada’’.] 
Pages 1+66. Published by Pulin Bihari Sen, Visva- 
bharati, 46-3 Dwarkanath Tagore Lane, Calcutta. 
1359 55] or 1952-53 A.D. [8th April, 1953.) Double 
Crown 16mo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


Prabhat Chandra Ray, Sri Gouranga Press, 5 Chinta- 
mani Das Lane, Calcutta. 3,100 copies. 


UNI-LINGUAL PERIODICALS. 
Bengali Periodicai—History. 


446. ইতিহাস-_ 
[Itihis. History. 3rd Year. No. 3. A quarterly 
magazine of the Bangiya Itihas Parisad, dealing with 
historical topica.] Edited by Rames Chandra Majum- 
dar and Narendra Krishna Sinha. Pages 1+145—216. 


11-829 
Bengali Periodical History—concld. 


Published by the Printer for Bangiya Itihas Parishad, 2 
College Square, Calcutta. Phalgun, 1359 sal to Vaisakh 
1360 sil or February-May, 1053 A.D. [30th May, 
1953.] Royal 8vo. 186 edition. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Narendra Krishna Sinha, Vani Press, 16 Hemendra 
Sen Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[No. 2 noticed in entry No. 475 at page 37 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


Bengall Periodical—Miscellanoous. 


447. ভার়তবর্ঘ-. 


[Bhiratvarga. India. 40th year. Part II. No. 4. 
A Bengali monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous 
topics.] Edited by Phanindra Nath Mukherjee and 
Sailen Kumar Chatterjee. Pages 83+37. Published 
by the Printer, 203-1-1 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 
Chaitra, 1359 sal or March-April, 1953. [Ist April, 1953. ] 
Double Crown 8vo. Istedition. Illustrated. 10 ص٭‎ 9۰ 


Govindapada Bhattacharyya, Bharatvarsha Printing 
Works, 203-1-1 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 7,000 
copies. 


No. 3 noticed in entry No. 480 at page 37 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1959 


448. No. 5. Pages 83+ 09 
1360 sal or April-May, 
Double Crown 8vo. 
annas. 


Vaisakh 
1963. (25th April, 1953.) 
Ist edition. Jilustrated. 10 


Govindapada Bhattacharyya, Bharatvarsha Printing 
Works, 203-]-1 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 7,000 
copies. 


449. গন্ধবণিক-_- 


[Gandhavanik. Spice-Merchant. Vol. 33. No. 6. 
A monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous topios. ] 
Edited by Manindra Nath De, M.A. Pages 26. Pub- 
lished by the printer, Gandhabanik Patra Publishing 
Society, 21 Rajendra Deb Road, Calcutta. Jaistha, 
1360 sal or April-May, 1953. (10৮৮ June, 1953.] 
Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


Sadhandhan Nag, Nag Art Pross, 67/1/1 Harrison 
Road, Calcutta. 1,000 cepies. 


[No. 4 not received.] 


450. روچ‎ সাহিত্য-- 

[Katha Sahitya. Story Literature. 4th year, No. 6. 
A monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous topics. } 
Edited by Sumatha Nath Ghosh and Gauri Sankar 
Bhattacharyya. Pages 59+-7. Published by the 
Printer, 8B, Dinabandhu Lane, Calcutta. Chaitra, 
1359 sal or March-April, 1953. [8rd April, 1953.] 
Demy 8vo. Ist edition. 6 annas. 


Kunda Bhusan Bhaduri, Parichaya Pross, 8B Dina- 
bandhu Lane, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


[No. 5 noticed in entry No. 485 at page 37 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


451. ————. No. 7. Pages 64+8. Baisakh, 
1360 sal or April-May, 1953. [3rd May, 1953.) Demy 
8vo. Ist edition. 6 annas. 


Kunda Bhusan Bhaduri, Parichaya Pross, 8B, Dina- 
bandhu Lane, Caleutta, 1,100 copies. 


TI— 1953. 
Bengali Perlodicals—Miscellaneous—conid. 


452. লিপিফা-_- 


(Lipiké. Letter. A magazine of Kunjabihari Institn- 
tion, Ukhra. Spring Number, with miscellaneous 
topics.] Edited by Phani Bhusan Bakshi, M.A. 
Pages 44. Published by the printer, Birbhum United 
Press, Ltd., P. 0. Dubrajpur, Birbhum. 1359 sal or 
1953 A.D. [25th April, 1953.) Foolscap 4to. 
Ist edition. 


Sunil Kumar Mukherjee, Birbhum United Press, Ltd., 
P. O. Dubrajpur, Birbhum. 575 copies. 


[Previous number not received.] 


453. যাসিক বস্ুষতী-- 


[Masik Basumati. The. monthly Basnmati (The 
Earth). 318 8 Year. Part JI, No. 6. A monthly 
magazine desling with miscellancous topics.] Edited 
by Prantosh Ghatak. Pagos 897-1052. Published by 
the printer, 166, Bowhazar Street, Caloutta. Chaitra 
1359 s&l or March-April, 1953. [20th April, 1953.) 
Double Crown 8vo. Istedition. Jilustrated. Rupee. 

Sashibhushan Datta, Basumati Press, 166, Bowbazar 
Street, Calcutta. 20,000 copies. 


[No. 5 noticed inentry No. 489 atpage 38 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


494, .۔-سس‎ 32nd year. Part I. No. I. Pages 
1-184-+-48, Vaisakh, 1360 or April-May, 1953. (20th 
May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. lst edition. Illustrated. 
Rupeo 1. 


Sushibhushan Datta, Basumati Press, 166, Bowbazar 
Street, Calcutta. 20,000 copics. 


455, —————. No. 2. Pages 185-352+448. Jyasitha 
1360 s&l or May-June, 1953. [22nd June, 1953.) 
Double Crown 8vo. Istedition. Illustrated. Rupeo 1, 


Sashibhushan Datta, Basumati Pross, 166, Bowbazar 
Street, Calcutta. 20,000 copies. 


456. মৌচাক-_- 


[33rd year. No. 12. Maucék. Bee-hive. A monthly 
magazine dealing with miscellancous subjects.] Edited 
by Sudhir Chandra Sarkar. Pages 46. Published by 
S. C. Sarkar & Sons, Ltd., 14, Bankim Chatterjeo Street, 
Calcutta. Chantra 1359 sil or March-April, 1953. [31st 
March, 1953.] Double Foolscap 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 6 annas. 


Brojendra Krishna Sen, Modern India Press, 7 
Wellington Square, Calcutta. 1,800 copies. 


(No. 11, noticed in entry No. 492 at page 38 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


457. . 2400 year. No. I. Pages 62. Baisakh 
1360 sal or রা 1953. [28th April, 19563. 
Double Foolscap 8vo. Ist edition. 11148470460. 6 Annas. 


Brojendra Krishna Sen, Modern India Pross, 7, 
Wellington Square, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


48. নদীয়ার কথা — 


[1৮1750-105018, Talk about Nadia. 186 year. No. I. 
weekly magazine dealing with miscellaneous aspects of 
the District of Nadia, West Bengal.] Edited by Tarak 
Das Banerjeo Pages 4. Published by the printer, 
ishnagore, Nadia. Monday, January, 1953. [26th 
January, 1053.) 11718? x 84" size. Ist edition 6 pice. 


Upananda Banerjee, Nadia Printing Works, Krishna- 
gore, Nudia. 1,000 copies. 


39 
Bengall Perlodicals—Miscellaneous—-conid. 


459. পতাকা 


[Pataka. Flag. Ist year. No.3. A quarterly maga- 
zine dealing with miscellaneous topics.] Edited by 
Chirakumar Pal. Pages 1+41—62. Publighed by 
tho printer, 8-2-1B, Mominpur Road, Calcutta. 1360 
৪8] or 1953-54 A.D. [14th April, 1953.) Demy 8vo. 
186 edition. 3 annas. 


Chirakumar Pal, New Bengal Printers, 142E, Russa 
Road, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[No. 2 noticed in entry No. 493 at page 38 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


400. পাঠশালা 
(Pathgala. Sohool. 16th year. No. 6. A monthly 
magazine dealing with miscellaneous topics.) Edited 
by Narendra Dev. Page 197-236. Published by tho 
printer, 30, Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. Falgoon, 1359 
.ظط‎ 8. or February-March, 1953. [14th March, 1953.] 
Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 7 annas. 


Ram Krishna Bhattacharyya, Prabhu Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 400 copies. 


[No. 5 noticed in entry No. 495 at page 38 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


461. ————~. No.7, Pages 40. Chaitra, 1359 
B. 8. or March-April, 1953. [2nd April, 1953.] “Double 
Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 7 annas. 


Ram Krishna Bhattacharyya, Prabhu Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Strect, Calcutta. 400 copies. 


, 


462. ——--——~-. No. 8. Pages 30.  Baisakh, 
1360 B.S. or April-May, 1953. [24th April, 1953.] 
Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 7 annas. 


Ram Krishna Bhattacharyya, Prabhu Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Strect, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


463. ——_——-. No. 9. Pages 35. Jyaistha, 
1360 B.S, or May-June, 1953. [18th May, 1953..] 
Double Crown 8vo, Ist edition. 7 annas. 


Ram Krishna Bhattacharyya, Prabhu Press, 30, 
Cornwallis Street, Calcutta. 400 copies. 


484. প্রবাসী-_ 


[Pravas'. Sojourner. Vol. 652. Part II. No. 6. A 
monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous topics.] 
Edited by Kedarnath Chatterjee, Pages 641.768. 
Published by the printer, 120-2, Upper Circular Road, 
Caloutta. Chaitra, 1359 sal or Maroh-April, 1953. 
{15th March, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. lat edition. 
Illustrated. Rupec 1. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


[No. 5 noticed in entry No. 498 at page 38 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


465. ——-——. Vaisakh. Vol. 53. Part 1 
No. 1. Pages 128. Vaisakh, 1360 sal or April-May, 1953. 
(14th April, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta, 5,000 copies, 


40 
Bongali Perlodicats—Miscellarieous—conid. 


466. পুবাসী--- 


[Pravasi Sojourner Vol. 53. Part 1. No. 2.] Pages 128. 
Jyaistha, 1360 85] or May-June 1953. [15th May, 
1953.] Double Crown 8٣. Ist edition. Illustrated. 
Rupoe 1. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 5,000 copies. 


407. সাধনা 


(Sadhana. A magziane of Sriram High English School. 
Wintor 18৭16, 1952 with miscellaneous topics.] Edited 
by Sri Sankar Bhattacharyya and _ others. 
Pages 42. Published by Chhakari Majumdar, Head 
Master, Sriram .لا‎ E. School, Abinashpur, Birbhum. 
[8rd April, 1963. [ 10774 186 edition. 


শি. R. Sen, Truth Press, 3, Nandan Road, Calcutta. 
300 copios. 


408. সাহিত্য পরিঘৎ পত্রিকা_. 


[Sahitya—Parigat-Patriké. Journal of the litera 
association known as Bangiya-Sahitya Parishat. Vol. 
58. Nox. 1 and 2. A quarterly magazine dealing with 
literary topics.] Edited by Dinesh Chandra Bhatta- 
charjee. Pages 36. Published by Satiat Kumar Gupta, 
Bangiysa Sahitya Parisad Mandir, 243/1, Upper Circular 
Road, Caloutta. 1368 sil or 1951-52. [1st October, 
1951.) 10১61”. Ist edition. 12 annas. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 800 copies. 
{Previous issue not received.] 


469, . Nos. 3 and 4. Pages 82. 1358 
B. 8. or 1951-52. A.D. [Ist April, 1952.] 107 × 63". lst 
edition. 12 annas. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra 
Biswas Road, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


470. ——-———. Volume 59. Nos. 1 and 2. 
Pages 45. 1359 B.S. or 1952-53. A.D. [18th October, 
1952.] 107 x64”. 186 edition. 12 annas. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


471, ——_———. Nos. 3 and 4. Pages 82. 1359 
B. 8. or 1952-53 [8rd February, 1953.) 10১61”, Ist 
edition. 12 annas. 


Sajani Kanta Das, Saniranjan Press, 57, Indra Biswas 
Road, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


472. ftn— 
(Sikha. Flame. 3rd year. No. 3. A magazine of 
Rastriya Balika Bidyayatan with miscellaneous topics.} 
Edited by Sadhana Neogi. Pages 23. Published by the 
editor, Krishnagar. [llth May, 1953.) Double Crown 
8vo. lst edition. 


Sailendra Govardhan Brahmachari, Bhagabat Press, 
Krishnagar, Nadia. 275 copies. 


[No. 2 not received.] 


473. শিগুসাধী-_. 


[916 Sathi. Child’s Companion. 318 year. No. 12, 
For Children.] Edited by Ashutosh Dhar, Pages 68. 
Published by the printer, 5, College Square, Calcutta, 


11--1953. 
Bengali Periodicale—Miscellanoous-—conid. 
Chaitra, 1359 sal. 


1953.] Double 
6 4118৭, 


March-April, 1953. 
Foolscap. 


[14th Murch, 
186 edition, 21774514161. 


1১. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Pross, 5, Collego Square‘ 
Calcutta. 6,000 copies. 


[No. 11 noticod in entry No. 508 at page 38 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


474, 82nd year. No. 1. [For Children.] 
Edited by Ashutosh Dhar. Pages 72. Published by 
the printer, 5, Colloge Square, Calcutta. Baisakh, 
1360 B.S. or April-May, 1953. [13th April, 1953.) 
Double Foolscap 8vo. lst edition. linstrated. 6 annas. 


P. N. Banorjoo, Sri Narasinha Press, 6, College 
Square, Calcutta. 6,600 copies. 
[Previous numbor noticed in entry No. at page 


of the Catalogue for the quarter ending ل‎ 


———. No. 2. 
or May-June, 1953. 
lst edition, 


Pages 68. Jyaistha, 1360 
[14th May, 1953.] Double 
Ilusirated. 6 annas, 


P. N. Banerjee, Sri Narasinha Press, 5, Colloge Square, 
Caloutta. 5,600 copies. 


475. 
B.S. 
Foolscap 8vo. 


476. শু কতারা-_- 


[Suktara, Venus. (Morning Star). Sixth yoar. No. 3, 
A monthly magazine for children.] Pages 80. Pub- 
lished by Subodh Chandra Majumdar, 22/5B, Jhama- 
pukur Lano, Calcutta. Vaisakh, 1360 B.S. or April- 
May, 1953. [14th April, 1953.) $th 17°x27". 186 
edition. Illustrated. 6 8. 


S. C. Mazumdar, Dev Press, 24, Jhamapukur Lane, 
Calcutta. 8,000 copies. 


{No. 2 noticed in entry No. 506 at page 39 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953. | 


477, ——-——~. No. 4. Pages 88. Jyaistha, 
1360 B.S. or May-June, 1953. [15th May, 1953.) 4th 
17" x 27," lst edition. Jllustrated. 6 anyas. 


8. 0. Mazumdar, Dev Press, 24, Juamapukur Lane, 
Calcutta. 8,000 copies. 


478. — —. No. 5. Pages 88. Asadh, 1360 
or June-July, 1953. [11th June, 1953.) 4th 17" 27". 
Ist edition. Jilwstrated. 6 90795. 


S. 0. Mazumdar, Dev Press, 24, Jhamapukur Lane, 
Calcutta. 8,000 copies. 


410. স্বাস্থ্য সমাচার”. 


[Svasthya Samacir. Tlealth Nows. 42nd yoar. No. I. 
A monthly magazine with information regarding health, 
industry, cultivation, education, ete.,cte.} 0 by 
Kartick Chandra Basu. Pagos 20. Published by the 
printer, 45, Amherst Street, Calcutta, Baisakh, 1360 
৪8] or April-May, 1953. [27th May, 1953.] Doublo 
Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 4 annas. 


Saroje Kumar Bose, Prubasi Press, 120/2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copics. 


[Previous issue not received.] 


Ti— 1953. 
سپ‎ Bengali Periodicals—Miscellaneous—concld. 


480. বিচিত্র বঙ্গ... 


[10168 Banga. Variegated Bengal. Ist year. No. 10. 
Deals with literature, cinema and sports.] Edited by 
Murari Mohan Chatterjee. Pages 84. Published by 
the printer, 6, Bentick Street, Caloutta. Baisakh, 
1360 or April-May, 1953. [15th May, 1953.) Demy 
8vo. Istedition. Illustrated. Rupees 4 yearly. 


Paresh Chatterjee, Modern Art Press, 6, Bentiok 
Strect, Calouttu. 510 copies. 


[No. 9. Not rcceived.] 


481. বিশ্যবাণী-- 


[Viévaé Vani. World message. Fifteenth year. No. 2. 
A monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous topics.] 
Edited by Swami Sadananda and Swami Vedananda. 
Pages 48. Published by Brahmachari Basanta Kumar, 
19B, Raja Raj Krishna Stroet, Calcutta. Chaitra, 
1359 B.S. or March-April, 1953. [4th April, 1953.) 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J.C. Ghose, 141, Vivekananda Road, Caloutta. 
copies. 


[No. 1 noticed in entry No. 509 at page 39 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


1,150 


482. مہہ‎ No. 3. Pages 48-+-16. Baisakh, 
1360 sal or April-May 1953. [4th May, 1953.] Royal 
8vo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


J. ©. Ghose, 141, Vivekananda Road, Calcuttaé 
1,360 copies. 


483. — . No. 4. Pages 4816. Jyaistha, 
1360 sal or May-June, 1953. [lst June, 1953.] Royal 
8vo. Istedition. 8 annas. 

J. C. Ghose, 141, Vivekananda Road, Calcutta. 
1,360 copies. 


Bengali Periodicals—Science 


484. জ্ঞান ও বিজ্ঞান-_. 
[Jfian 0 Vijian. 6th yoar. No. 3. A monthly 
Magazine dealing with svientific topics.] Edited by 
Gopal Chandra Bhattacharjeo. Pages 63. Published 
by the printer, 93, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 
[1৪৮ April, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Debondranath Biswas, Gupta Press, 93, Upper Circular 
Road, Calcutta. 1,100 copies. 


[No. 2 noticod in entry No. 515 at page 40 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


485 —————, No. 4. Pages 63. April, 1953, 
[4th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Debondranath Biswas, Gupta Pross, 93, Upper Circular 
Road, Calcutta. 1,100 copies, 


486 —__—_.. No. 5. Pages 
[2nd June, 1953.} Double Crown 8vo. 
ustrated. 12 annas. 


Debendranuth Biswas, 93, Uppor Circular Road, 
Calcutta, ],100 copies 


53. May, 1963. 
18৮ edition, 


41 
English Periodicals—Arts and ٥ 


487. Art and Photography—Vol. IV. No. I. 
{A quarterly magazine on art and photography.] 
Edited by B. K. Sanyal and K. L. Chowdhury. Pages 
34. Published by B.K. Sanyal, Photogaphic Association 
of Bengal, 18/5B, Dover Lane, Calcutta. January, 
1953. (28th April, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. 18% 
edition. Illustrated. 8 annas. 


Baliram Krishna Dhote, Bharat Lithographing Co., 
98/4, Surendranath Banorjoe Road, Calcutta. 1,000 


copies. 


English Periodicals—Commerce 


488. Eastern Railway Weekly Stores Bulletin. 
Vol. VII. No. II. [Issued weekly. Edited by K. B. 
Mathur. Pages 31. Published by the editor, Eastern 
Railway. 14th March, 1953. [14th March, 1953.] 
Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 8annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 565 copies. 


[No. 10. noticed in entry No. 525 at page 40 of 
the Cataloguo for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


489. ————. No. 12. Pages 16. 2186 March. 
1953. [2156 March, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 565 copies. 


490. ————-. No. 13. Pages 24. 28th March, 
1953. [28th March, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 

H.P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern Rail- 
way Press, Calcutta. 570 copies. 


491. —————. No. 14. Pages 35. 4th April, 1953. 
[4th April, 1953. [ Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 580 copies. 


492. —————. No. 15. Pages 35. llth April, 
1953. [llth April, 1953.] Royal 8৮০. Ist edition 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 580 copies. 


493. ————. No. 16. Pagos 24. 18th April, 
1953. (20th April, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Suporintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 580 copies. 


494. —————. No. 17. Pages 19. 25th April, 
1953. (25th April, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 

H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 610 copies. 


495. ————. No. 18. Pages 15. 2nd May, 
1953. [2nd May, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 

H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Pross, Calcutta. 610 copies. 


496. —————. No. 19. Pages 15. Oth May, 
1953. [9th May, 1953.) Royal 8vo, Ist edition. 
8 annas. 

H. P. Maitra, Printing Suporintendent, Eastern 
Railway Pross, Caloutta, 610 copies, 


English Periodicals—Commerce—conid. 


497. Eastern Railway Weekly Stores Bulletin. 
Vol. VIl. No. 20. Pages 16. 16th May, 1953, 
(16th May, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist 001৮0, 
8 annas 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Suporintendont, Kastorn 
Railway Pross, Calcutta. 610 copies. 


498. ——_———. No. 21. Pagos 16. 23rd May, 
1953. [23rd May, 1953.) Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 615 cupios. 


409. .ہے‎ No. 22. Pages 28. 30th May, 
1953. [29th May, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist ‘edition. 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 360 copies. 


500. .سے‎ No. 23. Pages 35. 6th June, 
1953. (6th June, 1953.) Royal 8vo. Ist edition. 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintentient, Eastern 
Railway Pross, Calcutta. 615 copies. 


501. ——. No. 24. 
1953. [13th Juno, 1953.] 
8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern 
Railway Press, Calcutta. 610 copies. 


Pages 28. 
Royal 8vo. 


13th June, 
180 edition. 


502. Place, Siddons & Gough. Share Market 
Report. No. 1825. Edited by R. G. Edwards. 
Pagos 12. Published by the editer for Messrs. Place, 
Siddons & Gough, 6, Lyons Rango, Calcutta. 
Calcutta, 2nd March, 1953. [4th March, 1953.] Demy 
410 Ist oditon. 


N. N. Ghosh, B.A., Lal Chand & Sons, 76, Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta, 1,350 copies. 


[No. 1824 noticed in ontry No. 537 at page 41 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter onding March, 1953. 


503, ———. No. 1826. Pagos 13. Calcutta, 
19th March 1953. [2186 March, 1953.] Demy 4 to 
Ist edition. 


N. N. Ghosh, B.A., Lal Chand & Sons, 76, Lowor 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,350 copies. 


504. —————. No. 1827. Pages 14. Calcutta, 
Ist April, 1953. [8rd April, 1953.) Demy 4to Ist 
edition. 

N. N. Ghosh, B.A., Lal Chand & Sons, 76, Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,350 copies. 


505. ————. No. 1828. Pages 12. Calcutta, 
16th April, 1953. [18th April, 1953.) Demy 4to Ist 
edition. 


N. N. Ghosh, B.A., Lal Chand & Sons, 76, Lowor 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,350 copivs. 


506. —————-. No. 1829. Pages 13 Calcutta, 30th 
April, 1953. [2nd May, 1953.) Demy 4to Ist edition. 


N. N. Ghosh, .ظط‎ A. Lal Chand & Sons, 76, Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,350 copies. 


English Periodicals—Commeree—conid. 


507. Place, Siddons & Gough. Share Market 
Roport. No. 1830. Edited by R. G. Edwards, 
Pages 13. Published by the editor for Messrs Place, 
Siddons & Gough, 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta. Calcutta. 
14th May, 1953. [16th May, 1953.] Demy 4to Ist 
edition. 


N. N. Ghosh, Lal Chand & Sons, 76, Lower Ciroular 
Road, Calcutta. 1,350 copies. 


English Periodicals—Engineering 


508. Engineering News of India. Vol. IV. No. 11. 
(A survoy of ongineoring and allied industries and thoir 
labour problems.] fPagos 64. Publishod by the printer 
Engineering Association of India, 35, Stephen 
House, Calcutta. Fobruary, 1953. [80th March, 1953.] 
Demy 4to. Istedition. Illustrated. Rupvo 1-8 annas. 


D. K. Sinha, Publicity Officor, Star Printing Works, 
31, Shibnarain Das Lane, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


[No. 10 noticed in entry No. 540 at page 41 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


509. —————. No. 12. Pages 76. March, 1953.] 
(29th April, 1953.) Demy 4 ৮০ Ist edition. 7/11/۶۰ 
Rupee 1-8 annas. 


D. K. Sinha, Publicity Officer, Star Printing Works, 
31, Shibnarain Das Lane, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


510. ————. Vol. V. No.1. Pages 78. April, 
1953. [23rd May, 1953.] Demy 4to. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


. D. K. Sinha, Publicity Officer, Star Printing Works, 
31, Shibnarain Das Lane, Calcutta. 800 copies. 


English Periodicals—Industry 


511. Indian Cycle & Motor Journal, The. Vol. 
LXXI1, No. 9. [Publisbed monthly.] Edited by 
S. K. Son. Pages 8. Published by tho printer, 120-2, 
Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. Fobruary, 1953. 
(18th April, 1953.] Doublo Crown 16mo. Ist udition. 
3 annas. 


N. C. Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


[No. 8 noticed in entry No. 548 at page 41 of the 
Catalogue for the quartor onding March, 1953.] 


612. —————. No. 10. Pagos 8. March, 1953. 
[ist May, 1953.] Double Crown 16mo. Ist odition. 
3 annas. 


N. C. Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper Circular Road. 
Calcutta. 1,000 copios. 


513. Indian Pulp and Papor, Vol. VII. No. 9. 
[Articles dwelling upon pulp and paper industries.] 
Edited by S. C. Laharry. Pages 46. Published by the 
printer, 1A, Vansittart Row, Calcutta. May, 1953. 
[23rd March, 1953.] Demy 4to Ist edition. Illus- 
trated, Rupoes 2. 


D. K. Jha, Star Printing Works, 30, Shibnarain Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 350 copies. 


[No. 8 notified in ontry No. 562 at page 41 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


614. ہہ ےہ‎ No. 10. Pagos 48. April, 1953. 
[27th April, 1953.) Demy 4to Ist edition, Jllus- 
trated. Rupvos 2. 


D. K. Jha, Star Printing Works, 30, Shibnarain Das 
Lane, Calcutta. 350 00118, 


JI—1953. 
English Periodicale—industry—concid. 


515. Indian Pulp and Paper, Vol. VII. No. 11. 
[Articles dwellmg upon pulp and paper industries.] 
Edited by S.C. Laharry. Pages 48. Published by the 
printer, 1A, Vansittart Row, Calcutta. May, 1953. 
[28th May, 1953.] Demy 4to Istodition. Illustrated. 
Rupoes 2. 


D. K. Jha, Star Printing Works, 30, Shibnarain Das 
Lano, Calcutta. 350 copies. 


English Periodicals—Mathematics 


516. Sankbya. The Indian Journal of Statistics. 
Volume 12, Parts 1&2. Edited by P. 0. Mahalanabis, 
Pages 204. Published by the editor, Statistical Pub- 
lishing Society, 204/1B, B. T. Road, Calcutta-35. 
December, 1952. [21st April, 1953.] Demy 4to Ist 
edition. Kupovs 10. 


Kalipada Mukherjee, Eka Press, 204/1, Barrackpore 
Trunk Road, Calcutta-35. 1,000 ovpies. 


[Previous issue not received.] 


English Periodicals—Medicine 


517. Indian Journal of Medical Rvsearch, The, 
Vol. XL, No. 4. [Published under the authority of 
the Indian Council of Medical Rosearch.] Edited by 
M. L. Ahuja, M.B.,Ch. B., M. D., D. P. H. Pages 
471—605. Publishod by Thacker Spink, & Co. (1933) 
Ltd., 3, Esplanade East, Calcutta. October, 1952. 
[19th May, 1953.] Donble Crown 8vo. 186 edition. 
IWusirated. Rupees 6-8 annas. 


H. Augustm, Thaeker’s Pross and Directorios, Ltd., 
6, Bentinck Street, Calcutta. 700 copies. 


[No.3. noticedinentry No. 558 at page 42 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


518. Indian Journal of Podiatrics. Vol. XX. No. 77. 
[Official organ of the Indian Pediatric Society. Pub- 
lished bi-monthly.) Edited by K. 0. Chaudhuri 
Pages 52. Published by the editor, 56/2, Creok Row, 
Calcutta. January, 1953. طا15]‎ May, 1953.] Royal 
8vo. lat edition. Jllustrated. Annual subscription 
Rupwoos 12. 


P. 0. Chatterjee, Modern Art Press, 6, Bentinck 
Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[০০ 76 not received.} 


519. —————. No. 78. Pagos 58. March, 1953. 
(15th June, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Istedition. [Tlustrated. 
Annual subscription Rupoos 12. 


P. 06. Chatterjoo, Modern Art Press, 6, Bentinck 
Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


520. Indian Medical Gazette, Tho. Vol. LXXXVII, 
No. 11. {A rocord of medicine, surgery, public hoalth 
and medical news, Indian and Kurojwah.} Edited by 
8.D. 9. Greval. Pages 485—-553. Published by the prin- 
ter, Thackor’s Press and 10100697098 Ltd., 6, Bontinok 
9706৮, Caloutta. Novembor, 1952. [30th April, 1903] 
Double Demy 8vo. lst edition, Jllustrated. Rupee 
1-8 annas. 


H. Augustin, Thacker’s Press and Directories Ltd., 
6, Bontinch Stroot, Calcutta. 3,200 copies, 


[No. 10 noticed in ontry No. 557 at page 42 of the 
Catalogue for {ho quarter onding. March, 1953) 


43 


English Periodicals—Medicine—concld. 


521. Indian Medical Gazette, The. Vol. LXXXVII. 
No. 12. Pages 555—600. December, 1952. [22nd 
May, 1953.] Double Demy 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupee 1-8 annas. 


Augustin, Thacker’s Press and Directorics, Ltd.,‏ .لا 
Bentinck Street, Calcutta. 3,300 copies.‏ ,6 


522. Indian Medical Record—Volume LXXII. 
No. 12. [Monthly journal of public health, tropical 
medicine and surgery, etc., devoted to the interest of 
the medica] profession in the East.] Edited by Santosh 
Kumar Mukherjee. Pages 40. Published by the 
printer, 14, Puran Chand Nahar Avenue, Calcutta-13. 
Calcutta, December, 1952. (23rd February, 1953.) 
Demy 4to. Ist edition. Rupees 7-8 80188, 
annual subscription. 


8S. ©. Mookerjee, Metropolitan Printing Works, 
175, Bowbazar, Street, Calcutta. 500 copics. 


529. ————-~——. Vol. 1۸۸111. No. 1. Pages 44. 
Calcutta, January, 1953. [25th April, 1953.] Demy 
4to. Ist odition. Rs. 7-8 annas, anual subscription. 


S. C. Mookerjee, Metropolitan Printing Works, 
175, Bowbazar Street, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


§24. ———---. No. 2. Pages 44. Caloutta, 
February, 1953. (2nd May, 1953.] Demy 4 نا‎ Ist 
edition. Rupees 7-8 annas, annual subscription. 


S. C. Mookerjee, Metropolitan crinting Works, 
175, Buwbazar Strect, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


§25. ——-—. No. 3. Pages 44. Culcutta, 
March, 1963. [15th May, 1963.) Demy 4to Ist 
edition. Rupees 7-8 annas, annual subscription. 


8. C. Mookerjee, Metropolitan Printing Works, 
175, Bowbazar Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


526. International Medical Abstracts and Reviews 
Vol. 13, No.5. [The Indian Journal of General Practice. 
Published montnly.) Edited by Jyoti Dhar. Pages 
118—140. Published by the editor 119, Dharamtolla 
Street, Calcutta. May, 1953. Double Crown .ں8۷‎ 
Ast edition. 


Jyoti Dhar, General Printers and Publishers Ltd., 
(Abinas Press), 119, Dharamtolla Street, Calcutta. 


English Periodicals——Miscellaneous 


527. b. I. News. No. 10. [A Journal of the 
British Indian Steam Navigation Co., Ltd., with 
miscellaneous topics.}] Edited by G. Douglas. Pages 
101. Published by Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co., Ltd., 
16, Strand Road, Calcutta. April, 1953. [30th April, 
1969.] 93° 7}". 1st edition. JUustrated. 


Norman A. Ellis, Baptist Mission Press, 41A, Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 2,300 copies. 


[No. 9 noticed in entry No. 562, at page 45 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending December, 1952.] 


528. Bulletin of the National Institute of Sciences 
of India. No. 2. [Proceedings of ‘The Symposium on 
Scientific Utilization of Coal in India.] Tages 140. 
Published by the National Institute of Sciences of 
India, Mathura Road, New Delhi. March, 1963. 
[8th May, 1953.) 93°x7}" size. Ist edition. IJlus- 
trated. سا‎ 6-14 annas. 


Norman A. Ellis, Baptist Mission Press, 41A, Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[No. 1 noticed in entry No. 603 at page 45 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter onding March, 1953.] 


English Perlodicals—Misceallaneous—conid. 


629. Bulletin of The Ramkrishna Mission Inatitute 
of Culture. Vol. 1V. No. 5. [Dealing with miscel- 
laneous topics.) Edited by Swami Nityaswarupa- 
nanda. Pages 32+4. Published by the editor, 
111, Russa Road, Calcutta. May, 1953. [2lst May, 
1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 6 annas. 


P.C. Chatterjee, Modern Art Press, 6, Bentinck 
Street, Calcutta. 1,600 copies. 


(No. 4. Not received.] 


530. Calcutta Municipal Gazette, The. Vol. LVII, 
No. 21. [Official Organ of the Corporation of Calcutta. 
Published weekly.) Edited by Santosh Kumar 
Chatterjee. Pages 495—522. Published by the printer, 
5, Surendranath Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 28th March, 
1953. [4th April, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 1st edition. 
Illustrated. 2 annas. 


K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath‏ ۶ط 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies.‏ 


[No. 20 noticed in entry No. 575 at page 43 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


531. —————. No. 22. Pages 520-550 April 
11, 1953. [14th April, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 1st 
edition. Jilustrated. 2 annas. 


YP. .کا‎ Mitra, Corporation Tress, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Koad, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


532. ————. No. 23. Pages 551—578. April 
18, 1953. [21st April, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. let 
edition. Illustrated. 2 annas. 


P. .کا‎ Mitra. Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


ws 


533. টি No. 24. Pages 5798—602. April 
25, 1963. (5th April, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. Ist 
edition. Jllustrated. 2 annas. 


۲ K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


534. —. Vol. 170۷1۱11, No. 1. Pages 1—24. 
May 2, 1953. [5th May, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. ٤ 
edition. IJNustrated. _2 annas. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


535. --سسد‎ No. 2. Pages 25—48. May 9, 
1953. [13th May, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 1st edition. 
Illustrated. 2 annas. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


536. ——_———._ No. 
1953. [2186 May, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 
Illustrated, 2 8. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Kuad, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


3. Pages 49—72. May 16, 
Ist edition. 


537. —————-. No. 4. Pages 74—06. May 23, 
1953. [26th May, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 1st edition. 
Illustrated. 2 annas. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
0787০ Road, Calcutta. 900 copies, 


1105 


11-13. 
English 85715016818-_18155611819008-_00710. 


538. Calcutta Municipal Gazette, The. Vol. ٠ 
No. 5. Pages 97—116. May 30, 1953. [2nd June, 
1953.] Foolacap Folio. Ist edition.  [llustrated. 
2 annas. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


539. --—-——. No. 6. Pages 117—140. June 6, 
1953. [6th June, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. 186 edition. 
Illustrated. 2 annas. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjec Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


§40. ————. No.7. Pages 141—164. June 13, 
1963. (17th June, 1953.] Foolscap Folio. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 2 annas. 


P. K. Mitra, Corporation Press, 5, Surendranath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta. 900 copies. 


5641. Eastern Railway Magazine. Vol. II. No. 2. 
[A monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous topics.) 
Edited by Srinivas Sarma, Kt., C.1.E. Pages 104. 
Published by the editor, 17, Netaji Subhas Road, 
Calcutta. February, 1953. [80th April, 1953. 
Medium 4to. Ist edition. Jllustrated. 8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern Rly., 
17, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


[Previous No. noticed in entry No. 579 at page 43 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


542. ——_———. No. 3. Pages 96. March, 1953. 
[16th May, 1953.] Medium 4to. Ist edition. Illua- 
trated. 8 annas. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern Rly., 
17, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


543. ————-. No. 4. Pages 96. April, 1953 
(7th June, 1953.] Medium 4to. Ist edition. Jllustrated 
8 annas. ses 


H. P. Maitra, Printing টা Eastern Rly., 
17, Netaji Subhas Road. Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


544. ——_——-. Centenary Special Supplement 
(1853—1953). Pages 324. [14th April, 1953.] Medium 
4to Ist edition. Jllustrated. Rupees 5. 


H. P. Maitra, Printing Superintendent, Eastern Rly., 
17, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


545. Indian Non-Ferrous Metal Manufacturers’ 
Association. [Contains presidential Speech of Mr. 
G. L. Gabriel at the Sixth Annual Gencral Meeting held 
at Bombay, on 31st January, 1953, [ Pages 9. Pub- 
lished by the Secretary, Indian Non-Ferrous Metals 
Manufacturers’ Association, 23B, Netaji Subhas Koad, 
Calcutta-1. (27th March, 1953.] Royal 8vo. Ist 
edition. 

K. 0. Bose, Binani Printers, Ltd., 38, Strand Road, 
Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[Previous issue not received.] 


Ti—-1953. 
। 81181) Perlodicals—Misoollaneous—conéd. 


646. Jute Bulletin. Vol. 15, No. 11. [Issued by 
The Indian Central Jute Committee every month.] 
Pages 70. Published by the Printer, 4, Hastings 
Street, Calcutta. February, 1953. [27th March, 1953. ] 
Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. Jllustrated. 8 annas. 


M. C. Mukherjee, Star Printing Works, 30, Shibnarain 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 525 copies. 


[No. 10 not received.] 


547. سس‎ No. 12. Pages 60. March, 1953. 
(17th April, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 8 annas. 


M. C. Mukherjee, Star Printing Works, 30, Shibnarain 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 550 copies. 


548. ————. Vol. 16. No. I. April, 1953. 
[18th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 8 annas. 


M. C. Mukherjee, Star Printing Works, 30, Shibnarain 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 600 copies. 


549. Letters, The. Nos. 6 and 7. [A _ social, 
cultural, cosmopolitan quarterly publication. Organ 
of the International Friends’ Correspondence Club.] 
Edited by Sudhir Kumar Roy. Pages 40. Published 
by the printer, Maldah, West Bengal. January & 
April, 1953. [27th April, 1953.) Demy 8vo. Ist 
edition. Yearly subscription. Rupees 3. 


Anisur Rahman, RKahmania Press, Maldah, West 
Bengal. 1,000 copies. 


[No. 5 not received.] 


550. Martin Burn House Magazine, The. Vol. XXI. 
No. I. [Spring (1953) issue.] Edited by A. G. Gidley. 
Pages 108. Published by Martin Burn Ltd., 12, Mission 
Row, Calcutta. [22nd May, 1953.] 11}"x8}’—Size. 
Ist edition. Illustrated. 


1), A. Lakin, Statesman Press, Calcutta. 2,000 copies. 


[Previous issue not received.] 


551. Modern Review, The. Vol. LX X XXIII, No. 4. 
Whole No. 556. [Amonthly review and miscellany.] 
Euited by Kedarnath Chatterjee. 19695 84 (254—336), 
Published by the printer, 120/2, Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. April, 1953. {2nd April, 1953.) Double 
Crown 8vo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupee 1. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120/2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 7,300 copies. 


[Previous issue noticed in entry No. 583 at page 43 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


552, لے‎ No.5. Whole No. 557. Pages 84 
(337--420). May, 1953. [2nd May, 1953.] Double 
Crown 8vo. Ist edition. JUustrated. Rupee 1. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Preas, 120 /2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 7,300 copies. 


553. —————-. No. 6. Whole No. 558. Pages 84 
(421504). June, 1053. [lst May, 1953.) Double 
wn 8vo. Ist edition. Jllustrated. Rupee 1. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120/2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 7,300 copies. 


45 
English Periodicals—-Miscellansous—concid. 


554. Unity. Vol. II, No. 2. [Journal of the Tea 
Planters’ Society., The South Indian Planters’ Society 
and the Cachar Tea Planters’ Association.] Edited by 
W. H. Hudson. Pages 52. Published by the Tea 
Planters’ Society, Ghatia T. E., Nagrakata, P.O. & 
district Jalpaiguri. April, 1953. [6th May, 1953] 
Double Medium 8vo. 18٤ edition. 


D. A. Lakin, Statesman Press, Calcutta. 950 copies. 


555. Visva-Bharati News. Vol. XXI. No.9. [An 
organ of the Visva-Bharati (The Santiniketan Universi- 
ty) dealing with miscellaneous subjects.] Edited by 
Kshitis Roy. Pages 93—108. Published by the 
না Santiniketan, Birbhum. March, 1953. {22nd 

arch, 1953.] Double Crown 8৮০, 186 edition. 
4 annas, 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 2,000 copies. 


[No. 8 noticed in entry No. 590 at page 44 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


656. —————. No. 10. Pages 109—124. April, 
1953. [28th April, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. lst 
edition. 4 annas. 


Prabhat Kumar Mukherjee, Santiniketan Press, 
Santiniketan, Birbhum. 2,000 copies. 


English Periodicals—Religion 


557. Magazine, The. Parish News. 9th year. Ist 
April, 1953. [A monthly magazine dealing with Chris- 
tian religion.] Edited by Revd. C. A. Vrithoff. Pagis 
8. Published by the editor, 51, Ekbalpore Road, 
Kidderpore, Calcutta. [lst April, 1963. [ Crown Folio, 
Ist edition. 2 annas. 


B. Page, The J. 9. S. D. Press, 95B, Chittaranjan 
Avenue, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 
a 


558. ————. Ist May, 1953. Pages 8. [2ud 
May, 1953.] Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 2 annas 


B. Page, The I. 8. 8. D. Press, 95B, Chittaranjan 
Avenue, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


559. 18৮ June, 1953. Pages8. [30th May, 
1953.) Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 2 annas. 


B. Page, The I. 8. S. D. Press, 95B, Chittaranjan 
Avenue, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


560. Prabuddha Bharata—Vol. LVIII. No. 6. [A 
magazine discussing religious topics of national and 
international interests.] Edited by Swami Vanda- 
nananda, Pages 60. Published by Swami Jogeshwara- 
nanda, 4, Wellington Lano, Calcutta. June, 1953. 
[8rd June, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. 18 edition. 


8 annas. 
P. C. Chatterjee, Modern Art Press, 6, Bentick Street, 
Calcutta. 3,200 copies. 


(No. 5 not received.] 


46 
English Periodicate—Science 


561. Industrial & News Edition of the Journal of 
the Indian Chemical Society. Vol. XV. No.4. 1952. 
Edited by G. Banerjee. Pages 189—220. Published 
by the editor, Indian Chemical Society. [2nd June, 
1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. Rupees 3. 


S. B. Mallick, 16 Hemendra Sen Street, Calcutta. 
1,150 copies. 


562. Journal of The Bengal Natural History 
Society, Vol. XXVI. No. I. Issued monthly. Edited 
by 5. Thomas Satyamurti, M.A., F.Z.S. Pages 62. 
Published by the editor, Natural History Museum, 
Darjecling. April, 1953. [20th April, 1953.) Royal 
8vo. Ist edition. Illustrated. Rupees 3-4 annas. 


T. P. Ghosh, 30, Shibnarain Das Lane, Calcutta. 
215 copies. 


[Previous No. not received.) 


663. Journal of The Science Club. Vol. VI, No. 4. 
(Quarterly Journal of Science Club dealing with scienti- 
fic topics.] Edited by U. P. Basu. Pages 58. Pub- 
lished by Sailendra Kumar Guha, Science Club, 110, 
9. N. Banerjee Road, Calcutta. March-May, 1953. 
(6th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Rupee ۰ 


Baliram Kisan Dhote, Bharat Lithographing Co., 
98/4, Surendranath Banerejee Road, Calcutta. 400 
copies. 


[No. 3 not received.] 


564. Proceedings of The National Institute of Sciences 
of India. Vol. XIX. No. 2. Edited by J. M. Sen. 
Pages 88. Published by the National Institute of 
Sciences of India, Mathura Road, New Delhi. March- 
April, 1953. [l5th May, 1953.] 93°x7}"—+size. 4٤ 
edition. Illustrated. Rupees 16-4 annas. 


Norman A. Ellis, Baptist Mission Press, 41A, Lower 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,000 copies. 


[No. 1 noticed in entry No. 603 at page 45 of the 
Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


565. Proceedings of The Zoological Society of Bengal. 
Volume 6. Number I. [A study of the Urinogenital 
system of Salientia (By J. L. Bhaduri, Department of 
of Zoology, University of Calcutta, with 
twenty-eight text-fixures and seventeen plates.) 
Published bi-annually.] Edited by G. K. Chakraverty. 
Pages 120. Published by the Zoological Society of 
Bengal, 35, Ballygunge Circular Road, Calcutta. March, 
1965. (18th May, 1953.) Crown 4to Ist edition. 
Illustrated. Rupees 10. 


Kalidas Munshi, The Pooran Press, 21 Balaram Ghose 
Street, Calcutta. 500 copies. 


[Previous No. noticed in entry No. 604 at page 45 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


566. Science and Culture. Vol. 18. No. 8 [A 
Monthly fournal of natural and cultural sciences.] 
Edited by 1). M. Bose and others. Pages 52. Published 
by Hemendra Nath Saha, Assistant Secretary, on behalf 
of the Indian Science News Association, 92, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. February, 1953. [12th 
February, 1953.] Imperial 8vo. Ist edition. Rupee 
۶ 


Kalipada Mukherjee, Eka Press, 204/1, B. T. Road, 
Alambazar, 24-Parganas. 1,250 copies. 


[No. 7 noticed in entry No. 618 at page 45 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.) 


English Periodicals —Sclence—concid 


567. Science and Culture. Vol. 18. No. 9. Paes 
50. March, 1953. [13th March, 1953.] Imperial 
8vo. Ist edition. Rupee ], 


Kalipada Mukherjee, Eka Press, 204/1, B. T. Road, 
Alambazar, 24-Parganas, 1,250 copies. 


568. —————. No. 10. Pages 60. April, 1953. 
(7th April, 1953.] Imperial Svo. Ist edition. 
Rupee 1. 


Kalipada Mukherjee, Eka Press, 20411, B. T, Road, 
Alambazar, 24-Parganas. 1,250 copies. 


Hindi Perlodicals—Miscellaneous 


569. fants মাহম-__ 
[৬1851 Bharat. Greater India. Vol. 51. No. l. A 
monthly magazine dealing with miscellaneous subjects. ] 
Edited by Sriram Sarma. Pages 1—72. Published 
by the printer, 120-2, Upper Circular Road, Calcutta. 
January, 1953. [9th March, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. 
Ist edition. Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabaxi Press, 120-2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,550 copies. 


[Previous issue noticed in entry No. 
of the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 


613 at page 45 
1953.] 


570. —————. No.2. Pages 73—144. February 
1953. [12th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8৬০. Ist 
edition. Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper 
Circular Road. Calcutta. 1,500 copies. 


571, ہلسلس‎ No. 3. Pages 145—216. March, 
1953. (29th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist 
edition. Illustrated. 12 annas. 


Nibaran Chandra Das, Prabasi Press, 120-2, Upper 
Circular Road, Calcutta. 1,500 copies. 


to 


BI-LINGUAL PERIODICALS 
Bengali and English Periodicale—Miscellaneous 


572. Birbhum Zilla School Magazine, Tho. [2nd 
year. With miscellaneous topics.] Edited by Satyaran- 
jan Chatterjee, Pages 52. Published by the printer 
Suri, Birbhum. April, 1963. [16th April, 1963) 
Crown 4to. Ist edition. 


8. N. Mukherjee, Mahesh Press, Suri, Birbhum. 420 
eopies. 


573. sweats fey একাওডমী পত্রিকা-_. 
(Krignakumar Hindu Ekademi Patrika. Krishnakumar 
Hindu Academy Magazine. Ist year. No. I. Contains 
topics of academical interest.) Edited by Khanendra- 
nath Chattopadhyaya. Pages 90. Published by the 
editor, Motijheel, Caloutta-28. March, 1953. [20th 
eal 1953.] Double Crown .م8‎ Ist edition. 
annas. 


এর نس‎ Bose, Joynarayan Press, 11D, 40001 
Lane, Caloutta. 1,500 copies. 


agall and English Perlodicals—Miscellaneous—concld. 


5 
674, Nebadwip Hindu School Magazine. Vol. XII, 
No. 1. [Deals with miscellaneous topics .] Pages 32. 
Published by Jaharlal Sarkar, Nabadwip Hindu School, 
Nabadwip, 1952-53. [18th April, 1953.) Double 
Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 


Jitendra Dutta, Kanti Press, Nabadwip (Cover and 
English portion) and Madhab Chatterjee, Town Press, 
Nabadwip (Bengali portion). 600 copies. 


[Previous issue not received.] 


575. Vidyasagar College Magazine. Volume VI 
No. I. 1953. Edited by Arun Kumar Sen and others 
Pages 65. Published by the printer, Suri, Birbhum, 
[29th April, 1953.] Crown 4to Ist edition. 


Vidyasaran Sinha, B.A., Bharati Press, Suri, 
Birbhum, 850 copies. 


[Previous issue not received.) 


576. যাত্রী- 

[Yatri. Traveller. 29th year. Nos, 7 and 8 (together). 
A monthly magazine of The Provincial Boy Scouts 
Asrociation, West Bengal, dealing with miscellaneous 
subjects.] Edited by Saroj Kumar Ghosh. Pages 14. 
Published by Saroj Ghosh., M.B.E., 5, Government Place 
North, Calcutta. Paus-Magh, 1359 sal or January- 
February, 1953. [8th April, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. 
186 edition. Illustrated. 3 annaa. 


Phani Bhusan Hazra, Gupta Press, 37/7, Beniatola 
Lane, Calcutta. 375 copies. 


[No. 6 noticed in entry No. 618 at page 46 of the 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1959] 


677. II. . Nos. Sand 10 (together). Pages 20. 
Falgoon and Chaitra, 1359 ৪81 or March-April, 1953. 
[28th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo. Ist edition. 
Illustrated. 3 annas. 


Phani Bhusan Hazra, Gupta Press, 37/7, Beniatolla, 
Lane, Calcutta. 375 copies. 


47 
Bengali and Hindi Poriodicals—Miscellaneous 


578. উদর. 
[Uday. Rising. Rabindra Anniversary Number. 6 
year. No. J. Contains miscellancous topics.] Edited 
by Subhas Chandra Ghosh. Pages 66. Published by 
Ananta Gopal Shaha, Baharal, P. 0. Ratua, Maldah. 
8th May, 1953. [8th May, 1953.] Double Crown 8vo, 
Ist edition. 


Phani Bhusan Sinha, Hrishikesh Press, Vill. Baharal, 
P. O. Ratua, district Malda. 230 copies. 


English and Hind! Perlodicals—-Engineering 


579. Journal of The Institution of Engineering 
(India)—Volume 33. Number 3. [With miscellaneous 
information.] Edited by P. P. Adaljia, B.E. Pages 
150. Published by the editor, The Institute of Engin- 
ہہ‎ (India), 8 Gokhale Road, Calcutta. March, 1953. 
(27th May, 1953.] Royal 8০. Istedition. IUustrated. 
Rupees 6. 


D. A. Lakin, The Statesman Press, Calcutta. 
9,800 copies. 


[No. 2 noticed in entry No. 619 at page 46 of 
the Catalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953.] 


English and Pall Poriodicals—Miscellanoous 


580. Indo-Asian Culture, The. Vol. I, No. 4. [Quar- 
terly periodical on miscellaneous topics connected with 
Indo-Asian Culture.] Edited by Dr. A. 0, Sen, M.A., 
LL.B. (Cal.), Ph.D. (Hamburg). Pages 94. Published 
by the Secretary, Indian Council for Cultural Relations, 
Hyderabad House, New Delhi—l. April, 1953. [30th 
April, 1953. [ Royal 8vo. Ist edition. Illusirated. 
Rupee I, 


Kalidas Munshi, Pooran Press, 21, Balaram Ghosh 
Street, Calcutta. 1,300 copies. 


(No. 3 noticed in entry No. 621 at page 46 of the 
Oatalogue for the quarter ending March, 1953, 


48 


ending the 30th June, 1953, consists of the following :— 


No. Language. 


GE 


UNI-LINGUAL BOOKS. 


1 | Assamese oe 
2 | Bengali সা 
3 | English a 
4 | Hindi 

5 | Nepali - 
6 | Sanskrit -۰ 
7 ۱ Tibetan oe 


Total Uni-linguals .. 


BI-LINQUAL BOOKS. 


= 


Arabie and Bengali .. 
Assamese and Bengali 
Assamese and English 
Assamese and Sanskrit 
Bengali and English .. 
Bengali and Prakrit .. 
Bengali and Sanskrit .. 
English and Hindi ٠ 
English and Nepali __s.. 
English and Oriya 


৫০ avs aks 


—= টন 
~ «SS 


English and Persian... 
English and Sanskrit .. 


Total Bi-lingual .. 


مس 
to‏ 


Calcutta, the lst May, 1956. 


Books. 
Non- | Educa- 
educa- | tional. 


সা 


Total, 


TT—1858, 
The Descriptive Catalogue of Books and Publications registered in the State of West Bengal during the aum 


2: এজ 


Total. 


Bookg, 
No. 

Language. Non- | ل٠۸‎ 
educa- | tional. 
tional 

[| অতি 
TRI-LINGUAL BOOKS. 
1 | Arabio, Pengali and Eng - 2 “3 
1181), 
2 | Bengali, English and Hindi 1 গা 
3] Bengali, English and 2 6 
Sanskrit. 
471 Bengeh, Prakrit and 1 ঠা 
Sanskrit, 
Total Tri-linguala .. 6 6 
QUADRI-LINGUAL 
BOOKS. 
1 | Bengali, Pali, Prakrit and ] ٦ 
Sanskrit. 
Total Quadri-linguals 1 ve 
Total Rooks wa 324 191 
UNI-LINGUAL ۲۱0۰ 
01058, 
1 Bengali de 41 ee 
2 | English = 82 
8 Hindi ee 3 ee 


m 62 DB سج‎ 


Total uni-lingual periodicals 126 = 


Bi-LINQUAL PERIODI- 

Bengali and English .. 6 - 

Bengali and Hindi ٠ 1 

English and Hindi ] ٠ 

English and Pali 7 1 a 

Total Bi-lingual periodicals 9. Cae 
Total periodicals রান ee 


ee ere 


Grand Total of bocka, ٠۰ 459 121 


P. C. LAHIRL, 


580 


Registrar of Publications, West Bengal, and Keeper of the 
Catalogue of Books under section 18 of Act XXV of 1867, 


Registered No. C207 No. 362(1) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, JULY 26, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LOCAL SELF.COVERNMENT DEPARTMENT 
Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 6492/M.20-20/56.—26th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conterred by clause (6) of 
sub-section (7) of section 4 of the Calcutta 
Improvement Act, 1911 (Bengal Act V of 1911), 
the Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Yusuf 
Mirza to be a member of the Board of Trustees 
for the Invyprovement of Calcutta with effect from 
the 28th July 1956. 
By order of the Governor, 
ও. M. MURSHED, 
Special Officer and Joint Secretary 
to the Government of West Bengal. 


Vrinted and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at Weet Rengal Govt. Press, Alipore, an the 26th July 1056. 


1753 


Registered No. C207 এ .No. 36301) 


Calrutta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, JULY 806 


ae ee: olen 22, 
i Ss | eee Spee, 


سم 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of ঢা ৬৪1 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 
Land Acquisition 
م۸(‎ 

Birbhum.—No. 15166L.A.(P.W.).—26th July 
1956.—Whereas 11.47 acres, more or > less, ot land 
situated im or near the villages of Kanduri aud 
iwo others described below have been requisitioned 
under gub-section (1) of section 3 of the West 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 4১01) 
1948, by the person authorised under the ৪1] 
section 3(1) for the purpose of providing facilities 
fur irrigation and drainage, namely, for  sub- 
merged area of the inlet-cum-escape at chainage 
461.00 of Dwarka Brahmani Main Canal in con- 
nection with the Mayurakshi Reservoir Project ; 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
purguance of section 4 of the said Act the (tov- 
cernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


1155 


1766 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Parr] 
JULY 26, 1956, 


সপ স্পা 


This notice is givengunder the proMsion of 0 
section (4a) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisitw#and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (Weat 
Bengal Ref dl of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. ۰ 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of thé Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Birbhum, «as well as in that of the 15390111156 
ingineer, Muayurakshi North Canals Division, 
Ranypurhat, Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Mauza Kanduri, jurisdiction list No, 22, police- 
station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 

Cadastral survey plots in full—318, 319, 720, 
321, 822, 123, 324, 325 and 34h. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—817, 326, 427, 
129, 331, 332, 335, 3834, 388, 339, 340, 341, 42, 
443, 346, 347, 348, 449 and 89৭. 

Mauza Bhatina, jurisdiction liet No. 19,  police- 
station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 

Cadastral survey plots in full—9h1, 992, 957, 
9110, 2171, 2172, 2175, 2174, 2175, 2176 and 2177. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—950, 965, 856 
and 998. 


Mauza Radipur, jurisdiction list No. 21, police- 
station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plot in part—2269. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Benyal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent Govt. Ptg., West Bong: 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 26th July 1056. 


Registered No. C207 No. 364({1A) 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


= 8a @ eee 
বারা. 


FRIDAY, JULY 27, 1956 


PART TA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of 
India, Statutory Notifications of the Election Commissivn. 
India, and other Election Notifications published fer 
general information. Orders and Notifications which have 
originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are 
only republished. 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 


New Delhi-2, dated the 22nd June 1956 


NOTIFICATION 


S.R.O. 1413-A.—In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Press 
and Registration of Books (Amendment) Act, 1955 
(55 of 1955), the Central Government hereby 
appoints the lst day of July 1956, as the date on 
which the said Act shall come into force. 


R. K. GOVII, 
Under Secretary. 


. ee 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Preas, Alipore, on the 27th July 1956. 


1767 


Registered 7 No. 365 (1) 


= 3 
st 
0:٢۲٢٢ I 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, JULY 27, 195 


PART [-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the ط111‎ Court, Government Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 230382A.R.—27th July 1956.—The following 
notification hy the Secretary to the Governor of 
West Bengal is hereby published for general 
information :— 
‘NOTIFICATION 
No. 25018.—27th July 1956.~—The President has 
asseuted to the West Bengal Premises Tenancy 
(Amendment) 13111) 1956. 
1১, R. SINHA, 


Secretary to the Governor,” 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 
٤ 


۲ inte aie দর by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bongal, 


West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 27th July 1956. 
1759 


Registered No. C207 No. 366(I11) 


Calrutta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, JULY 27, 1956 


PART III—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 


Legislative Department 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 1797L.—27th July, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legislature, having 
been assenied to by the President, is hereby published tor general information :— 


West Bengal Act XVIII of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL PREMISES TENANCY 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956. 


[Passed by the West Bengal Legislature. ] 


{Assent of the President waa first published in the Caloutta Gazette, 
Extraordinary, of the 27th July, 1850. 


An Aot te amend the West ا‎ Premises Tenancy Act, 
56. 


om 


WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the West Bengal wet 2৩০, 
Premises Tenancy Act, 1956, for the purposes and in the Act XII of 
manner hereinafter appearing; 1956. 


It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows :— 


Short title. 1. This Act may be called the West Bengal Premises 
Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1966. 


Amend- 2. In sub-section (2) of section 16 of the West Bengal 

mentof Premises Tenancy Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the 

section 16 8810 Act), for the words ‘‘within three months’’ the words 

Ben, Act Within six months” shall be substituted and be deemed 
always to have been substituted. 


. 3. In section 26 of the said Act,— 
of 


mont - te 31 717 
ion 26. a) in sub-section (2), after the words ‘‘a Registrar 
a ئا‎ the words “or a Deputy Registrar’ shall be 
inserted and be deemed always to have been 

inserted ; 


(b) in sub-section (4), after the words “a Registrar’ 
the words “or a Deputy Registrar’ shall be 
inserted and be deemed always to have been 
inserted. 


1761 


1762 THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 27, 1956 [ Pamr ITE! 
—e——Ex—yx—E—>y سس جس ٗ سے سے سے سے سے سے ے_و ےھچ وسےے ڑم چچ-ے‎ 
The West Bengal Premises Tenancy (Amendment) 

Act; 1956. 


(Sections 4, 3.) 


Amend- 4. In section 38 of the said Act, after the words ‘‘under 
ہہت‎ the provisions of this Act’’ the words ‘‘or an order passed 
* on মা” revision or review therefrom” shall be ineerted 

and be deemed always to have been inserted. 


Substitu- § For section 40 of the said Act, the following section 
tion of rt shall be substituted and be deemed always to have been 
section Yor substituted, namely :— 


section دنا‎ 
“Repeal and 40. (1) The West Bengal Premises west Ben. 
oe Rent Control (Temporary Provisions) Act, Act XVII 
1950 (in this section referred to as the of 1950. 
said Act), is hereby repealed. 


(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the said Act:— 


(a) any লারা pending on the 3lst day of March, 
1956, may be continued, or, 


(b) any proceeding or remedy in respect of any right, 
privilege, obligation, liability, penally, forfei- 
ture or punishment under the sual Act and relat- 
ing to the period before such repeal may be 
instituted, 


as if the said Act had been in force: 


Provided that for any of the purposes aforesaid, a 
Controller, an Additional Controller or a Deputy 
Controller appointed under this Act shall be 
deemed to be a Controller, an Additional Con- 
troller or a Deputy Controller appointed under 
the said Act, 


Ezplanation.—In this section ‘proceeding’ includes 
any suit, appeal, review or revision, application 
for execution, or any other proceeding whatso- 
ever under the said Act. 


(3) In computing the period of limitation for the insti- 
tution of any ere under the said Act, the period 
beginning with the 3lst day of March, 1956 and ending with 
the 30th day after the commencement of the West Bengal 
Premises ডি (Amendment) Act, 1956, shall be 


excluded.’’, 


By order of the Governor, 


S. K. D. GUPTA, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printi West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore, on the 27th July, 1956, 


Registered Na. C207 Ne, 367(1A) 


Calrittta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


میس سے 
ےر وھ OTOL EE TIED‏ عو ہیں ےکا DE IE‏ ہے چومسیسوچے٤مووےومموسعُودحجیکےلوومسووجے>سسودکوممووچیووسوےدوسوموپ|جسرڈاپسےہصوسٗوٗجپووسکب1جد‏ موی I ET‏ ے نے EA A‏ 


SATURDAY, JULY 28, 0 


PART IA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory 
Notifications of the Election Commission, India, and other Election 
Notifications published for general information. Orders and 
Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette 
of India” are only republished. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
NOTIFICATION 


New Delhi, the 7th July 1956 
THE CITIZENSHIP RULES, 1966 


§.R.0. 1574,.—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the 
Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following rules, namely :-— 


Part [—PRELIMINARY 


1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the 
Citizenship Rules, 1956. 


(2) They shall come into force at once. 


2. Definitions.—In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,— 
(a) the ‘‘Act’’ means the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955); 


(b) ‘‘Collector’’? means in the Presidency-town of Bombay, Calcutta 
or Madras, the Collector thereof, and elsewhere the chief officer- 
in-charge of the revenue-administration of a district, and includes 
such other officer as the Central Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint to perform the functions of the 
Collector under these Rules in respect of any area; 


1763 


1764 BHE GAL. GAZ. EXTRY?. JULY 28, 1956 [Parr LA 


(৫) @Form” means a fo¥hi in ہ8‎ 81٥ I; 
(0) ‘“‘Schgdule’’ means &, Schedule to these Rules; 


(e) “59০07517527 means the Secretary or a Joint Secretary té the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Ilome Affairs; 


(1) ‘‘séetion’’ means a section of the Act. 


Part []—Crrizensuip’ or InpIa By REGISTRATION 


3. Form of application for registration under Section 5(1)(a).—(1) 
An application for registration as a citizen of India made under section 


6(1)(a) shall be in Form I. 


(2) The oath of allegiance given at the end of the Form shall je 
affirmed (or sworn), subscribed and attested before making the application. 


4. Form of application for registration under Section 5(1)(c).—(1) 
An application by a woman for registration as a citizen of India made 
under section 5(1)(c) shall be in Form IT and shall be accompanied by 
documentary evidence to show that the applicant has renounced or lost the 
citizenship of her country in accordance with the law in force therein or 
by an undertaking in writing that she will renounce that citizenship in 
the event of her application being sanctioned. 


(2) The oath of allegiance given at the end of the Form shall be affirmed 
(or sworn), subscribed and attested before making the application. 


(3) An application under sub-rule (1) shall not lie unless for one year 
immediately before the date of application, the applicant— 
(a) hag resided in India; or 
(b) has been in the service of a Government in India. 


Explanation.—In computing the period of one year, broken periods of 
residence and service under clauses (a) and (b) may be taken into account. 


5. Form of application for registration under section 5(1)(d).—An 
application for the registration of a mmor child of a citizen of India as a 
citizen thereof made under section 5(1)(d) shall be in Form IIT and shall 
include the following particulars, that 1s to say— 

(a) a statement whether the applicant is a parent or guardian of the 
child, and, if he is a guardian, how he became a guardian; 

(b) a statement showing that each of the parents of the child is, or, if 
deceased, was at the time of death, a citizen of India; 


(c) a stutement of the reasons for which it is desired that the child 
should be registered as a citizen of India. | 


6. Form of application for registration under section 5(4),—An appli- 
cation for the registration of a minor child as a citizen of India made under 
section 5(4) shall be in Form 1V and shall include the particulars specified 
in clauses da) and (c) of rule 5. 


7. Authority to which application is to be made.—An application for 
registration shall be made to the Collector within whose jurisdiction the 
applicant is ordinarily resident. 


8. Authority to register as citizens.-The authority to register a person 
as 2 citizen of India under section 5(1)(a) or section 6(1)(d) shall be the 
Collector, and in any other case under these Rules, the Central Government. 


Part JA] THE (415. (AZ, EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1765 
le ee = 


9. Collector to make inquiries before registration.—The Collector shall, 
before registering a person under section 5(1)(a), satisfy himself that the 
person— 

(a) is of Indian origin and has been actually resident in India for 
six months immediately preceding the date of application; 


(b) has close connections in India; 
(c) has an intention to make India his permanent home; 


(d) has signed the oath of allegiance as prescribed in the form of 
application; 


(6) 18 of good character and is otherwise a fit and proper person to be 
registered as a citizen of India. 


10. Cortificate of registration to be granted to persons registered.—(1) 
Every person who is registered as a citizen of India under section 5(1) (a) 
or section 5(1)(d) shall be issued a certificate of registration in Form ۰ 


(2) Every person who is registered as a citizen of India under section 
6(1)(c) or section 5(4)° shall be issued a certificate of registration in Form 
VI 


(3) When ao certificate of citizenship is issued under sub-rule (1) or 
sub-rule (2), a duplicate copy thereof shall be prepared and preserved 101 
record by the issuing authority. 


11. Register of persons registered under section 5(1)(a), to be kept 
by each Collector.—There shall be kept by each Collector— 


(a) a register containing the names of persons registered as citizens 
of India under section 5(1)(a), in Form VIJI-—PART I: 


(b) a register contuining the names of minor children registered as 
citizens of India under section 5(1)(d), in Form VITI—PART I; 


(c) a register containing the names of persons whose applications for 
registration as citizens of India under section 5(1)(a) have been 
rejected in Form VIJ—Part II; 


(d) a register containing the names of the minor children whose 
applications for registration as citizens of India under section 
601) (0) have been rejected, in Form VIII—PART II. 


12. Register of persons registered under sections 5(1)(c) and 5(4).— 
There shall be kept by the Central Government in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs :— 


(a) a register containing the names of the women registered as 
citizens of India under section 5(1)(c) in Form IX; 


(b) a register containing the names of the children registered as 
citizens of India under section 5(4) in Form X. 


13. Manner of making entries in register.—All entries made in the 
registers kept under rule 11 and rule 12 shall be numbered consecutively, 
and each entry shall relate to one person only. 


14. Copies of entries in register to be sent quarterly to Home Ministry. 
—Before the last day of April, July, October, and January of each year, the 
Collector shall transmit to the Secretary, in Form XI, a copy each of all the 
entries made during the three months ending with March, June, September 
or December, as the case may be, in registers kept by him and such copy 
shall be certified by that authority to be correct under his hand and seal. 


1766 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Par 1 [A 
سے‎ : 


15. Matntenance of register and connected papers.—(1) Livery entry 
made in the régister kept under rule 11 and rule 12, shall be authenticated 
after a person is registered as a citizen of India. 


(2) The registers and all papers connected with every application shall 
be preserved for permanent record. 


16. Action to be taken when application for registration under section 
5(1)(a) or 5(1)(d) is refused.— When an application for regisiration under 
section (1) (a) or section 5(1)(d) 1s refused, the registering authority 
shall without delay inform the applicant of the order passed by it on the 
application. 


Part [JI—NATURALISATION AND RESUMPTION OF INDIAN CITIZENSHIP 


17. Form of application for naturalisation.—(1) An application for a 
certificate of naturalisation shall be made to the Secretary in Form 7۰ 


(2) Such application shall be accompanied by— 


(i) duly stamped affidavits from the applicant and two respectable 
Indian citizens testifying to the character of the applicant and 
the correctness of the statements made in the application; and 


(ii) a certificate to the effect that the applicant has an adequate 
knowledge of one of the languages specified in the Wighth 
Schedule to the Constitution. 


18. Form of certificate of naturalisation.—(1) A certificate of naturalisa- 
tion shall be in Form XIIT and shall be signed by the Secretary. 


(2) There shall be kept by the Central Government in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs a register in Form XIV containing the names of persons to 
whom certificates of naturalisation are granted under this rule. 


19. Oath of allegiance for purpose of naturalisation.—(1) The oath of 
allegiance required by section 6(2) to be taken by a person to whom a 
certificate of naturalisation 18 granted shall be subscribed and attested in 
Form XIII and as so subseribed and attested shall be endorsed on the 
certificate of naturaliyation to which it relates. 


(2) The oath of allegiance required as aforesaid shall be taken within 
one calendar month of the date of the certificate of naturalisation to which 
it relates, or within such extended time as the authority which granted the 
certificate may permit, and if the 0011) is not taken within the said time, 
the certificate shall have no effect: 


Provided that permission shall not he deemed to have been given under 
this sub-rule unless a statement to that effect is endorsed on the certificate 
and signed by a person authorised by rule 18 to sign a certificate of 
naturalisation. 


(3) The 08৮) of allegiance required as aforesaid shall he registered by 
such person and in such place as the authority which grants the certificate 
may direct. 


(4) When the oath of allegiance is registered in accordance with any 
direction given under sub-rule (3), the authority which registers it shall 
cause a copy of the oath and of the certificate of naturalisation to which it 
relates to be sent to the Secretary. 


20. Declaration of intention to resume Indian citizenship.—(1) A 
declaration of intention to resume citizenship under the proviso to 
section 8(2) shall be in Form XV, and the oath of allegiance in that Form 
shall be duly subscribed and attested. 


Part IA] THE চান GAZ. EXTRY., নোট 28990 শা 


BL জপ কি SI, 


(2) Kivery such declaration shall be reyistered in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs of the Government of 1. 


(3) No such declaration shall be registered unless the declarant has 
tuken the oath of allegiance given at the end of the Form. 


(4) There shall be kept by the Central Government in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs a register in Form XVI containing the names of persons whose 
declaration of intention to resume Indian citizenship are registered under 
this rule. 


Part IV—RENvDNCIATION ann Deprivation or Citizensuiv oF INpIA 


21. Declaration of renunciation of citizenship.—(1) A declaration of 
renunciation of citizenship of [ndia made under section 8(1) shall be in 
Form XVII, and shall state— 


(a) under what provisions of law the applicant is an Indian citizen; 


(b) the circumstances in which the applicant is also a foreign citizen or 
national. 


(2) The declaration shall be registered in the Ministry of Home Affairs 
of the Government of India. 


(3) There shall be kept by the Central Government in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs a register in Form XVIII containing the names of persons 
0060ی‎ of intention to renounce citizenship are registered under 

is ۰ 


22. WMotice of proposed deprivation of citizenship.—(1) When it is 
proposed to make an order under section 10 depriving a person of his 
citizenship of India, notice under sub-section (4) of that section shall be 
given— 

(a) in a case where that person’s whereabouts are known, by causing 
the notice to he delivered to him personally or by sending it to 
him by post; 


(b) im a case where that person's whereabouts are not known, by 
sending it to his last known address. 


(2) Where the Central Government has given notice as aforesaid and 
the person to whom it is given has the right on making application therefor 
to have his case referred to a Committee of Inquiry under section 10(5), the 
application shall be made— | 


(a) 1f that person is in India at the time when the notice is given to 
him, within three months from ihe giving of the notice: 


(b) in any other case, within such time not being less than three 
months from the giving of the notice, as the Central Government 
may determine: 


Provided that the Central Government may in special circumstances at 
সস time extend the time within which the application may be 
made. 


(3) Any notice given in accordance with the provisions of this rule 
shall, in a case in which the person to whom it is given has the right, on 
making application therefor, to have his case referred to a Committee of 
Inquiry under section 10(5), include a statement of the time within which 
such application must be made. 


23. Order depriving a person of Indian citizenship to be published.— 
An order depriving a citizen of India of the citizenship of India shall he 
published in the Gazette of India. 


1768 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 {Part TA 


24. Cancellation of certificate of naturalisation in case of deprivation of 
citizenship.—(1) Where an order has been made depriving a pemon 
naturalised in India of his citizenship of India, the person so deprived or 
any other person in possession of the relevant certificate of naturalisation 
shall, 11 required by notice in writing given by the Central Government, 
deliver up the said certificate to such person and within such time as may 
be specified in the notice. 


(2) (a) If the said certificate is so delivered, it shal] be cancelled. 


(b) If the said certificate is not so delivered, the Central Government 
shall direct that it shall be treated as cancelled. but without prejudice to 
any action which may be taken under sub-rule (38). 


(3) If any person fails to comply with any notice given under sub- 
rule (1), he shal] be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand 
rupees. 


25. Committee to follow procedure in Schedule ۱۱ in holding inquiry.— 
A Committee of Inquiry appointed under section 10 shall, while holding the 
inquiry under sub-section (6) of that section, follow the procedure laid 
down 11) Schedule II. 


Parr V—SurrlEMENTAL 


26. Variations in form of application or declaration.— Where a person 
wishes to make an application or declaration under any of these Rules and 
the form referred to in the rule is, in the opinion of the Central Government 
or other authority to whom the application is to be sent for registration, 
unsuitable to the particular case, the Centra] Government or that other 
authority, as the case may be, may authorise the application or declaration 
being made in some other form. 


27. Certificate of citizenship in case of doubt.—A certificate of 
citizenship in case of doubt issued under section 18 shall be in Form VI and 
shall be signed by the Secretary. 


28. Persons before whom application or declaration may be made or by 
whom oath of allegiance may be administered.—An application or declara- 
tion made in accordance with these Rules shall not be accepted or 
registered und the oath of allegiance required by section 5(2) or section 6(2) 
shall be of no effect unless it is signed in the presence of or administered 
by one of the following persons :— 


(i) In India— 

The Collector, Deputy Commissioner, District Magistrate or any other 
person for the time being authorised by law, in the place where 
the applicant, declarant, or deponent is, to administer an oath 
for any judicial or other legal purposes ; 


(11) Elsewhere— 


any Consular officer as defined in rule 2(d) of the Citizens (Regiatra- 
tion at Indian Consulates) Rules, 1956: 


Provided that if the applicant, declarant or deponent is serving in India 
in the naval, military or air forces of the Union the application 
or declaration may be signed in the presence of, or the oath 
administered, by any officer holding a commission in any of these 


forces. 


29. Certification of documents.—A document may be certified to be a 
true copy of a document by means of a statement in writing to that effect 
signed by any of the persons before whom the application or declaration 
may be made or by whom the oath of allegiance may be administered. 


Parr TA] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1769 


. Authority to determine acquisition of citizenship of another country. 
—fi) 11 any question arises as 10 whether, when or how any person has 
acquired the citizenship of another country, the authority to determine such 
question shall, for the purposes of section 9(2), be the Central Government. 


(2) The Central Government shall in determining any such question 
have due regard to the rules of evidence specified in Schedule III. 


31. Fees.—(1) The fees specified in Schedule IV shall be levied and 
collected in respect of the matters referred to in that Schedule: 


Provided that no fee shall be levied and collected in respect of any of the 
said matters from a person of Indian origin who makes an application under 


section 5(1)(a) or section 5(1)(d). 


(2) Of the fee payable in respect of the grant of a certificate of natura- 
lisation, a sum of Rs. 15 shall be payable on the submission of the 
application for a certificate and shal] in no circumstances be refunded and 
the a shall be payable on the receipt of the decision to grant a 
certificate. 


ScHEDULE I 


[See rule 2(c)] 


This form when completed should be forwarded in duplicate to the local 
registering authority (of the place where the applicant is residing). 


Form 1 


(See rule 3) 
Citizensuir Act, 1955, Section 5(1)(a) 


Application for registration as a cttizen of India under section 5(1)(a) of the’ 
Act made by a person of Indian origin. 


Part I 


1. I, A-B of এ insert address of applicant showing village or town, 
Police Station, and name of the State] am of full age and capacity and was 
born at (with Tehsil, District, and Province or State) on 


2. My father’s full name 18 | আ08,,১,.১০০১১০০,০০০০০০০০, مت‎ eee দা eee 
and he was born at.............. যার হারার erecta ere سی‎ 0809008990 
3. My mother’s full name 1s/was.............. নার ব্যান and she 
WAS born تل 91 ٗمی؟ّ۹ّ٘۹ھ۹"و  ےت دی تمس یی ہی اتا‎ re 


4. I am single/married/a widower/a widow/divorced/from my wife/ 
husband. 


5. My wife’s/husband’s full name 18/۷۴88 یئا‎ ৮7 


6. My age on the date of the application is....... کہ ہے س0‎ 


1770 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Part 1A 
a a جی .:::ْےتپچت‫و---____---ت_-تےس-,تت تع‎ 
7. Marks of identification :— 


8 
8. (a) 1 am ordinarily resident in India and have been so resident for 
the six months immediately preceding the date of application: 


[Here state the addresses at which the applicant was ordinarily resident 
during the past six months, with dates in each case. ] 


(b) I am in the service of a Government in India: 


সপ stute the name and the department in which the applicant is 
employed, whether the Department forms part of the Government of India, 
or a State Government, the capacity in which the applicant is employed and 
the date of his or her পলা 


9. Profession or occupation other than Government service: 


Here state details regarding designation, name and address of 
employer, station of posting, etc. | 


10. Passport particulars, if any:— 


1 Number. 
b) Place and date of issue. 
c) Name of issuing authority. 


Il. Particulars of visa, if any, held by the applicant :— 


(৫) Number and date of visa. 

(4) Place of issue. 

(c) Name of issuing authority. 

(d) Period of authorised residence 
specified in the visa. 

(e) If extended, please quote authority. 


12. Description of immovable property and/or business interests in 
India : — 


Brief description of property/ At present in posses- 
business interests. sion of, 


_ 18. Details of family members who are staying in India with the 
applicant : سے‎ 


Relation- 


Present address. ship. 


PART JA] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 ITIT 


14. Details of members of family 161 in a country other than India. 


sch Name Present Address Relationship Age 
0. 


557 ree Ra টস ০১৯০-৯১-55 ০0080১০০১০০ (| রে SUR AAA A pe AA a LAER NATO eS NN আরো জিলা) (| UR RR RN IE RS IY 


Part 1 
15. (a) Profession or occupation while residing in Pakistan. 
(6) Whether applicant is/was in employment under the Central or any 


Provincial or State Government of Pakistan, if so, the capacity in which 
he/she/is/was employed. 


16. Whether the applicant at any time applied for the grant of an 
long term visa for India for permanent resettlement in India, if so, wit 
what result. 


17. Whether the applicant was, at the time of partition residing in 
territory now included in Pakistan or India (Give full address). 


If the latter, state 


(2) the date of migrating from India; 


(9) the circumstances in which applicant left India for Pakistan. 


18. Place(s) of residence in India prior to migration. 


From To Place of residence and address 


(a) 


1772 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 {Parr TA 


19. Description of immovable property and/or business interests ৪ 
Pakistan owned or acquired by or allotted to applicant or to any se 
with whom he haa joint property or partnership or who is his employee or 
agent for purposes of ownership of allotment. 


Brief description of property / 
Place business interest At present in possession of 


20. Whether the property shown in item 12 or 19 has been treated as 
evacuee property. 


21. Whether the applicant has at any time been convicted for contra- 
vention of Passport/Permit Regulations or any other offence. If so, full 
details to be piven. 


22. Civil or criminal proceedings pendiug against applicant in (1) India 
and (2) Pakistan [Full details to be given]. 


Parr IIT 


23. I have/have not previously renounced or been deprived of the 
Citizenship of India. 


[1f the applicant has renounced his or her Indian Citizenship, here state 
the date-on which the declaration of renunciation was made; or if he or she 
has been deprived of his or her citizenship, state the date on which and the 
authority by whom, the order of deprivation was made. ] 


24. I have/have not previously applied for registration as a citizen of 
India and the application has not been rejected. 


95. Names and full addresses of two references in India to whom the 
applicant is well known. 
(1) 
(2) 


26. I declare that my intention is to make India my permanent home; 
and I hereby apply to be registered as a citizen of India. 


“I, A-B do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing particulars 
stated in this application are true, and I make this solemn declaration 
conscientiously believing the same to be true. 


গিরি? 5858 
Made and subscribed this......... ররর ররর 071775155 
en Lee arene ee eer Terr سی‎ 19.....sscccsceeeee 81016 me. 
۳۷۹7ی ٰ0ٌ“'>َصً۶ٌٌٔ یو‎ 


*Designation......... 7758 


Part TA] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1773 


I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian Citizen otherwise 
fan by naturalisation; that I am a householder; and that I am not the 


I vouch‏ 701+ ٭70ه2ەٰ2 0 0 )۱۷۰۰ی 
for the correctness of the statements made 1)ড......,১০০০,০১৮০১০১০০৪০০০০০৪০০১৪০১৪‏ 
ed‏ رتا 7 :7 , :19۷:1۰۰ کا ا ابی 
9.07 

1, 0 


Name (in BLOCK LETTERS) 


Full postal address.............06 می‎ 


A Del | ح7 0ك ي20" 0 - - --- "“ ە' سس لسر تی‎ do 

solemnly affirm (or swear) that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the 

Constitution of India as by law established, and that I will faithfully observe 
the laws of India and fulfil my duties as a citizen of India. 


نس تی مہ سس ارس س ১1:71 এত‏ 

Affrmed/Sworn and subscribed ہ+سہہ٭٭٭ہ!, 8اا‎ ree re 2 

5228 61 apes 0/۰" 
before me. 

হল 

*Designation......... “09990 


“Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule 28 of the 
Citizenship Rules, 1956, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of 
allegiance is made or taken. 


Form II 
(See rule 4) 
0171725717 Act, 1955—Srcrion 5(1) (c). 


Applwation for registration as a citizen of India under section 5(1)(c) of 
oe Act made by a woman who is/has been married to a citizen of 
a. 


1. I, A-B of [here insert address of applicant] was born at.............. 
۰۷۷۷۸۷۷۷۷۷۷۷۷۷۸۲ ٥ص‎ 

2. My father’s full mame 19|193.,,...,১১১০০০০১০০০১৪১৪ پٹ یی ٠ص یت“‎ 
AU He WR DONT AT cae, ভে سی سی سس‎ ত্র لہ‎ 

9, ] was married تی4 قهھ‎ ররর 11 Ee মহা রন وت مت‎ 


to C-D [here insert full name of husband] of/late of [here insert 
husband’s address, or last address if he 1s deceased. | 


وت ی۶ ٦‏ +ف+پ ‏ پٰٹیپپ‪ٹٹ أف ‏ ظ )۷۱ ۳ھ 

5. My husband’s father’s full name is/was...........sccscscsseserses and he 
was born مس 5ا8‎ 55585 27577577752 

6. My marrioge is still 81110518611)/1)89 terminated by reason of......... a 


@eeehoeaeseTeeseeeeonveaen setesceggsae leectenngese 


[If the marriage is not subsisting, state whether it was terminated by 
the husband’s death or by divorce]. 


109৯ 1 801,570 00142 £0, 1990 {MARL IA‏ ۲۶77ح ہے دجو 


7. My husband is/was a citizen of India by reason of the fact that 


{Here state the grounds on which it is claimed that the applicants 

husband is or was a citizen of India]. = 

8. I have resided in India or been in the service of a Government in 
India or partly the one and partly the other, throughout the 
period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of 
application. 


From To Address and/or details of 


: service under Government 
Details of residence date date in India 


9. I have renounced/lost the citizenship of my country in accordance 
with the law therein in force in that behalf. 


{Here list ‘a documents attached to prove the fact of such renuncia- 
tion |. 


10. I undertake that I will renounce the citizenship of my country in 
the event of my application being sanctioned. 


11. 1 have contracted the following other marriages :— 


{Here state place and date of marriage and name and nationality or 
citizenship of husband in each case]. 


42. I have he not previously renounced or been deprived of the citi- 
zenship of India. 


[If the applicant has renounced her Indian citizenship, here state the 
date on which the declaration of renunciation was made; and 11 
she has been deprived of her citizenship, state the date on which 
and the authority by whom, the order of deprivation was made]. 


18. I hereby apply to be registered as a citizen of India. 


14. I, A-B, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing parti- 
culars stated in this application are true, and I make this solemn 
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true. 


تسس ری سسیملمسما سی 6ال 517007 7 

Made and subscribed this ..... 5 85775275475 OF 
کیہ‎ ১,০০০১০০০০০০০০০]9,,,১,১081018 Me. 

Pe PAL ۱۱. 6> 

*Tesignation......... ane রানা দির 


*Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule 28 of the 
Citizenship Rules, 1956, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of 
allegiance 1s made or taken. 


Part IA] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1775 
লিল্লাহি আতপ 
{, the undersigned, hereby state thut 1 am an Indian Citizen otherwise 
than by naturalination; that I am a householder; and that I am not the 


solicitor ۰ی۹۱‎ 22 IT vouch for the correct- 
(۰۰۱۷ 9  ءب ب‎  - گ- - 7/پ>/.  - ب‎ - - 9 27 cor 
in her application for مین یی‎ 87772 
یٰ1‎ 71 +۷ ee 
Name (in BLOCK LETTERS)............ 
Full postal address......... scccsesesscsesees 
11টি রান নর 


Oath of allegiance 


I, A-B, do solemnly affirm (or swear) that I will bear true faith and 
allegiance to the Constitution of India as by Jaw established, and that I will 
faithfully observe the laws of India and fulfil my duties as a citizen of India. 


কাবা ররর রা রাত‏ تس تی سیر گت ات ھتہ 
day of‏ من بین 0১102055101‏ 
before me.‏ ,......19 کے টি রি‏ 
مس سید سس سی Kaas‏ سی PST PTA PUNE‏ 
*Designation......... রিনার 1‏ 


*Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule 28 of the 
Citizenship Rules, 1956, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of 
allegiance is made or taken. 


This form when completed should he forwarded tn triplicate to the Chief 
Secretary to the Government of the State tn which the applicant 1s resident. 


Form III 
(See rule 5) 


CrrizensHip Act, 1955-—Srcrion 5(1)(d) 
Application for the registration of a minor child 


1. Full name of the minor child. 


(in BLOCK LETTERS) i. 00 00 ۱ 


If he/she has been known by an- 
other name, enter that name 
here. TERTETELETERTSETTT LE و‎ ড ৬ 1১ ৬ ৭৪৪ ৭55৪8৪৪৪৪৬৪ ৩৩7৪৩ 


1776 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Pari ۸ 
Se ee ee پچجچپوعثڈششسسویشسسچ جعچشججرجچد ےچ شی سج تو یہی‎ 


Present address. ہفم‎ (۵ 0 077-7 


Place and date of birth. م1‎ 0+ 


2. Father’s full name 


(in BLOCK ا با ا‎ 73 তে 5১০ sesteeeas 


Mother’s full name 


(in BLOCK LETTERS) চি ১০, ১555 


“Grounds on which applicant’s 
parents claim Indian Citizen- 
000۷۰۰۰۰۰۰۰۰۰9 


3. Minor’s period of residence in India— 


SN ce Ng es eM eg Ca a na Ee ee a mm, eae 


With whom residing ] *f0™ Pid Address 


سچ ہے ہے ہت 


চি ৯0 


Application 
87:11 وھ ضس یب‎ 
Signature of applicant. 


I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian Citizen otherwise 
than by naturalisation; that I am a householder; und that I am not the 


৪11711577-55867707727575575552777822558288 I vouch for the 
correctness of the statements made  00.,..১,১১০১০০০০০০৪০০০০০, in his application 
سو یہی یس سس رک یئ جس سی تہ‎ 
TATE ئھ080‎ ۱ 
ف0۰‎ 9 7 
Name (in BLOCK LETTERS)............ 
Full postal address........ 1 2 


ور ور و رر رہ...2 ৭০৪৪৪৪০৪৪৪০ ৪৪৪৪৩৪৫ওর৪৪৮৪৪৪৪৪৩৫৪ ৪৪৪৩৪ ৫রউ‏ 


Part IA] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1777 


: Declaration 


I, A-B, do solemnly and sincerely declare thet the foregoing particulars 
stated in the application are true and I make this solemn declaration con- 
scientiously believing the same to be true. 


]۰۰۹و 
ঠা‏ 
تی" رر Made and subscribed (61018. ,., ১১০১০০০০০০5 ৪5৪০০৪০৪৪০০,‏ 
before me.‏ , 19 20 -ُ ,0 
চ8ছা127085,5588578485888-545482555,‏ 
ہے 6810851013(] ٣‏ 


*If a citizen of India by registration or naturalisation, please refer to the 
number and date of the certificate of registration ur naturalisation as the 
case may be. 


+The designation of the officer signing should be written here in his hand. 


This form when completed should be forwarded in triplicate to the Chief 
Secretary to the Government of the state 1n which the applicant 2৩ resident. 


Form ٢ 
[See rule 6] 
CirizEnsnir Act, 1955—Srcrion 5(4) 


Application for the registration of a minor child 


1. Full name of the minor child in 

country of origin 

ogee aoa)‏ مسجوتثت BOURGET ৮255,‏ رت 
If he/she has been known by an-‏ 
other name, enter that name‏ 


"۸ 9ص0صس9ىصی۷۷َ‎ ৪ ৬ 


11, ইন্য تمس‎ দ্যা ররর রজার রাবারের سو‎ নার 
0দ1তি]3777555445448977586/84415775521 নত مم یسوی جو مو‎ 
Pine ud ate Ob سم سسین مال اد تسس متا ات۷‎ 45152575275 
Nationality or citizenship at 

70 9 9 ., مس سرب مم یم لو سن یس چوس চির‏ 
ডি 277‏ “ء۱۰۰۷۷۰۱ Present nationality if different‏ 


If stateless, say how nationality 
we LOW cis پمیر رص صھی‌ٗمصضس‎ নন کے کت‎ 


1778 THE CAT. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1050 [Parr TA 


2, Father’s full name in his country 
of origin - 
(in BLOCK LETTERS) و سی سس سے‎ 
Nationality or citizenship ٹیبییٹبیٗ یی می سی‎ 


پیوس ینف نیت سھادهہ Country of‏ 


Mother’s full name in her country 
of origin 
(in BLOCK 087১5)... csesssessesssssetecsansennoeseeneteeensteenaees 


Nationality or 01612678111): +১158555258256558 55552৫5৯55৪ ৯5২55১৪৪০০৪০৪১৮০, 


سیف سس ہے کت Country of origin‏ 


9 Particulars of residence with 
.ہ۱۱‎  5৮হ৪১০৪০১১৫৪৪৪৪৪৪৪ کے‎ +00 7ٍ রর 


From To 
(a) India date date 


ac 


Years Months 


টিটিনিরি রিয়ার নী সি 
(9) Other countries. 
ee ee 


মিনিট ODA Ye 


The minor’s intentions with regard to future residence if this application is 
granted, are as follows :— 


4, Approximate date of any previous 
application for naturalisation or 
registration, ٹوو میرف‎ 0+118 


Reference number, | 10070: 555555555555555555885552৮৮৮৮5৪56০৮5৮852৮5৯৮১২১১০৪৪৪৭৪০৭৭ ১ 


Part 1A] 


5. 


6. 


7. 


8. 


Particulars of any change of 


nationality or of citizenship Nationality or citizenship 
acqui 


since birth. 


Reasons for and the manner 
of change of nationality or 
citizenship. 


Details of all gegen of 
any kind (01511 or criminal) Nature 
taken against the minor in 

Court of law 7 


Tho minor’s knowledge of a 
principal Indian language (to 
be mentioned) is slight/fair 
good/excellent .. 7 


Reasons for which the appli- 
eant desires to acquire Citizen- 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1779 


ship of [71010 ** 7 


Names and particulars of near 
relations in India 


বি 9 ود‎ 


Relationship Age 


1780 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Part [A 


সস ১২২২২০২১১১১ ৯৯ 


APPLICATION 


(Complete either (a) or (6) or (c) or (d) of this portion of application 
and cress out whichever sections are Inappropriate.) 


The manor child 


the minor child to whom the foregoing particulars relate, hereby 
apply for registration as a citizen of India and attach the consent 
of my parent/guardian to this application. 


The parent who ts cttizen of India 


27222 مو سس‎ "0+0 : 
am a citizen of India and a parent 01,,,,০০১০১০০৪০১৪০১ ১১১০০০৪৭১০১ ০০১ ১৪০০, 
to whom the foregoing particulars relate. I hereby apply on 
lbehalf of my child for his/her registration os a citizen of India. 


The parent who ts not a citizen of India 


Peay 121707777577877757177728 27272 সিট 
‘to whom the foregoing particulars relate and am a national/ 
۰ٰ ب 0ي‎ 1097 and I hereby apply 
ه3‎ 70 for his/her registration as a citizen 


‘of- inca. 
The guardian 
1582 0×۷" 0 0 277 07 ںا‎ 


am the (sole) natural/appointed guardian مئ67۱۲‎ 
to whom the foregoing particulars relate, who has no living 
parent /whose parent or parents are living and resident 1n............ 
090-29 I am duly authorised by the Court or by the minor 
child’s father (or mother in the event of his death) whose consent 
is attached, and I hereby apply on behalf of..............cscccceceees 
for his/her registration as a citizen of India. 


The reasons for ۷۷00 000 CT TT 


eeseeeBenpeceaeosueevnaepetreeneegeseaevne @ 56665৪65655 525 655655866586585565259662%686866865652668853568660656285818556865%565 85৭56 5 


Signature of applicant. 


Declaration 


I do solemnly and sincerely declare that the particulars stated in this 
application are true and I undertake to inform the Secretary immediately, 
if, before the registration now applied for is effected the particulars given 
above require amendment, in consequence of any change in (a) my circum- 
stances: (b) the circumstances of the minor child, and I make this solemn 
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true. 


Singnature of applicant.........sgeecesers 


Minor child/Parent/Guardian. 


Part LA] THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1781 


Made and subscribed this 


O00 ا‎ নত eT nan een ee em |! "۳۷"“٘۶سپی9۶۷ ہے‎ 90 


a 


Signature and deisgnation of the 
officer authorised under rule 28 
of the Citizenship Rules, 1966, before 
whom the registration, declaration 
or oath of allegiance is made or 
taken. 


1, the undersigned, hereby state that I am a householder and an Indian 
citizen otherwise than by naturalisation. I am not the solicitor or agent of 
টা and I vouch for his/her good character 
and loyalty. 


I support this application from personal knowledge of and intimate 


acquaitance with the applicant for.............ceseeee years. 
১8৭1, مہ کرو سس صا ا‎ 
18715772557 19 
Name (IN BLOCK LETTERS)............... 
Full postal address..............006 


2. I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am a householder and an 
Indian citizen otherwise than by naturaliwation. I am not the solicitor or 


I vouch for his/her good‏ 800. سس baa‏ ساس سر تہ اہ روہ 
character and loyalty. I support this application from personal knowledge‏ 
of and intimate acquaintance with the applicant:four.......... sss. years.‏ 
رامسم یس تا اهت 
ব্রা 19‏ سس LALO Gee‏ 
Name (IN BLOCK LETTERS)............‏ 
Full postal address..........ssssescecseves‏ 
Form V‏ 


(See rule 10) 
Certificate of Registration 


Name of registering authority 


place 


This is to certify that the person whose particulars are given below has 
heen registered by me as a citizen of India under the provisions of section 


B(1) (a)/(d) of the Citizenship Act, 1955, 


1. Name 
2. Name of father/mother or 
husband. 


3. Place of birth 


1782 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Pari TA 


4, Age 
5. Present address 
6. Special peculiarities and 
identification marks. 
7. Occupation 
Signature 


Noa of registering authority. 


Signature/thumb impression of the 
grantee made in the presence of the 
issuing authority. 


Date and place of issue. 


Form VI 
[ See rules 10(2) and 27 ] 
CrrizmpnsHip Act, 1955 


Cortified Ghat: تم‎ 5555র58855855755558855 کر حیرص میس کت تر سم‎ 
whose particulars and photograph are furnished below, has prima, facte satiafied 
the conditions laid down in the Constitution of India and is accordingly, 

Citizenship Act, 1955 
recognised as a citizen of India. 


Particulars. 
AGG sy 9 090 Name and Surname 
(in Block letters)......... ৪৪44 নী ۶ 
রা 27277557758 Date oh 20757575774255845552 5558 
21817 8০০৮5552584 rere rr Nationality of origin........... ৪28 وی‎ 
رود درس وی ای ڈا تل‎ Surname and forenames of father 
(in Block letters)...........00. د رت‎ 
Special peculiarities and Occupation or profession.......... یں‎ 0> 
identification marks........ 
Present residence in India........... وت‎ 
PHOTOGRAPH 
Signature of the grantee made 
in the presence of the issu- 
ing authority ......seessseuee ve 


Signature and designation of the 
Date and place of issue. issuing authority. 


1783 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 


Part [A] 


, ‘uoneordde ue ہم دہ‎ ure#e oy ہر‎ ‘uosied eq ممصوجیڈۃۂ‎ 07 ojqissod eq pmmoys 9 
pesefer st 007897030 ue coug ہر مممددوتث-‎ 970 emqny ও جو‎ Furqoeyo ০9০০০ 07 porreyep £1709500709 eq 01০৭৪ UUMOO ٠(۸ ২900০, sOLIIUGs 


6 78 9 9 7 $ g I 
(09৭০০1৪0৪০৭ وہ‎ 70۲ UT Vipul 0 
تہ]0مو0 نان منرت‎ %091099 999070 ۹ "ON 
Ayam 80085939757) jo 9 مم ہدوہ‎ 0098 qos” 119160397 ۰7ھ‎ jo 6 eUrUU 8,107}8,7 ১১৪১৯ 5595 
8514802101311 mog ی0‎ 
ও ৪ কও ৪ ےج‎ গু ےو‎ 471507709 801397৭19০7 ০০০০০০০০০০০ তি 
[ (০) emma وہہ‎ ] 
Il Lavd—IIA Waog 


"@9B8OQ17I00 00779319189 og} Ul JoqUIMU جہ‎ WILK 00০994০০ pmoygs ও979789এ ভান UI ‘ON 97998 01 
مسومتەع ہہ"‎ oq pP[NOYE o780gI7ZJe0 oy) Zurusis uosiced oy} Jo ssarppe eq} ۱م‎ তত مر ٭ 0780917100‘ ج6‎ 

ULIO} C4} WI SI GoUepIAG وہ‎ US AA “ArBsSOV0U JI 591১ 92297 B 2৩ 20 رہدٌ3جح7وجعوہ‎ ০ porejyop AjjucIoyNs oq pMmoys دمرصص۲‎ siz} JopuN ৪9707 ৬ 
a a eee Eee 


6 8 L 9 g ۴ ت3‎ 4 I 
(00155375789 
Joy এএযান97৬ ১১১০১ UT 
oy} Surpreser 21059720994 075۳ eprezno 
peonpoid 9০900 07353758782 9891১00 72989 خ۸‎ ০১০১ ۹و1‎ ‘ON 
-LA@ JO এছ) ০9০10 81 19190600304 7 jo کی‎ eUIBU ৪,০72] ১৬১১ [৯৮৬২২ 
S_IVUIOY + 
ভগ্ন ৪ গ্রীক بے‎ ও جح‎ গঠিত 58 نا‎ ডু ডি قؿ‎ 49০30 3012005180, হরি کرت او وا تو وو و سی‎ ftom eg رر و‎ a 


] آر(ہ)‎ ena ০99 | 


I Lavqg—IIA Wag 


THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Part IA 


1784 


-uorjtarpdde ue ددد‎ 3 uTeSe oy بر‎ “uvsied جوہ‎ Ajyyuep! 09 o[qissod oq pmogs 


4 ‘poyoefer st uotyeoydds ue 99009 9 *Arespe00U ہر‎ ‘yup GINyNy ও 29 201106۵ 110رہ‎ ০% ০791) قصوواد ہ۸‎ oq P[Coys UUMjOD গু Jepun 9০৭৩৭ , 


L 9 9 ড় € é I 
a ae re re a ee ee oe ee ne ےہ ےج کے‎ 
(poqoefer دہ‎ svy 
uo1qBodde 1 
Aq uosver Jorg) ۱ “ON 
8711911210 » 0০19০০91৪3০ eq seoIppe eyuSsel سرت 9,497 تہ ٣ز ور تی‎ [9599 


.. سس‎  |€&55 লি শি শশী শী পি ীা্ীশীশিীাটী 
“papatas 24999 savy %০2%08 (p)(7)¢ ০7996 
sopun 8508104190694 sof 2102) ০05 دپترودوں“‎ sousus fo suoyposyddn fo 49198697006 ‘LOY 8310 
[ (P)IT 90 99 | ‫َ 


Il ওরা ۶٢0٥ 


৪7৩০ঘ59০ 0০9379059এ وہ‎ UT +00700 oy} وت‎ 00০9894709০ pmoys 297559৩এ 5ہ‎ Ul “ON 181IEg-——"aLON 
‘e104 7959%09 eq Plhoys ০7০7%০০ oY} ZuruZis suocsied oy} JO sseIppe oy} PUL تہ‎ OT} ٭ دمسوبو مصوک‎ Jo 
چرم‎ GY} UI st مدرم دہ‎ oY} USY AA ہر 0ئ دلگ'‎ ‘oJEpP আহঃ) ও 9 7০০৭০ ০7৭17 OF 00 A[quewyyNsS og P[nogs 0700۷ 5107 JOpUN 9৪৯৬7» 
gig Se ee ee re 
L 9 9 ۴ ت‎ 6 1 
ےو م_یے‎ ee a ee তি রি 57555455555 


آەد 01755787895( 


۸110181198 7717 
2:0630 
peonpoid eoue 
-ptae jo ainzeu) 07754757994 ‘ON 
27148 011941 ے‎ jo ৪৬0 وتوں ا ہگ :با شی ات‎ jo 0+7, eUIBU ৪,এ০ নম eurU Ny ۳ 


শা 6 ররর 
(7)07)2 ৮/০৫/০০৪ sapun suazino upspuy sv 20949251594 854171194০4 fo 4as16o77 —QC6I ‘JOY dIHSNAZLLID 
] (0)77 ems زی‎ 
I 571-1114 1808 


1786, 


Part [A] 


THE 014. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 


a ne 


001%991100 jo 
ر۰ ک بریں‎ 
পা a ee 5 ےو رہ 1رہ سنہ لیخت‎ a বস : pps 5 কহ 
03 07793791494 jo ssolppe ০ sossaippe ت0‎ ١ 
58ہو‎ 0200٥ وودرمدم من ا‎ ' এ aed pus cured AT 00 ہیی‎ [NJ موہ‎ pus مز 8ہ‎ 9০251 ]]٢ج‎ 9৮০5 


و ‌‌وںچےچ ید --چچحس جج جج سس سس سس سم i‏ 
০৫০০০ sapun suszipo uDspuy sD pasaqerbes sours fo 42jst6ayy‏ و(چ) 


[(q) ZI نرہ‎ ০০5] 
+20, 1 


re 
قہ۸د‎ ۹ 
وہ‎ poysrumny 
مخ 09و‎ 
Axreyusmnoso0p 
o7 
eoualejoyy 
0৩007903৩99 SI 
اذ رص رس‎ yr 


3900307 ا 91100 9 000 


Piya 31 80 Jo و سس‎ 

لزا 0 rye}‏ ژ0 7فظ ۲۱ 

"qA0K) ۔ تمہ‎ eau টি seq pueqeny jo ٤۹ کے‎ ve : 
چیم‎ ২০৭] 917১ ٭ وہ‎ quvoljdde i$ ssoippe 8ا0‎ 97919 jo 93০ 91 oN 

8 ٔ ر٢۲‏ ه٥‏ مڑ puvesyg  uoyedns0Q‏ چرصدبہ 0700ھ چچڑ٭حتوم [OW‏ دنت 2911991۹ ای سشابجےے ری نت ایند اش 


201.200 صعص 'ًََ مد ہپھوو۔۔ 423916077 fo‏ 15 ہممصاوی 1০949985594‏ تد unipuy‏ 92/928169 
[(৪) 1 9105 283‏ 
,80× تج 


1786 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Part 1۸ 


Form XI 
(See rule 14) 


fast of persons who have been registered as citizens of India under section 
5(1)(a)(d) of the Citizenship Act, 1955, during the quarter ending on the 


۱۰۴۶/8017۸ day of March|/September| June | December  10,,০,,,,,০৮০০৮০০০০০০০০৪৮০০০৭ 
Serial Name *Father’s/Mother’s or Age 
No. husband’s name 


*Enter s/o or d/o before father’s or mother’s name and w/o before 
husband’s name. 
. Norr.—Each return should indicate clearly full particulars of the registering 
authority and place of registration. 


This form when completed should be forwarded in triplicate to the Chief 
Secretary to the Government of the State in which the applicant is resideut 
together with a fee of Rs. 15 (by Treasury chalan) payable on submission 
af an application. 


Form XII 
Part I 
[See rule 17(1)] 
Citizenship Act, 1955—Secrion 6(1) 


Application by a person for a certificate of naturalisatyon. 


1. Full name of applicant in country 

of origin. (IN. BLOCK 

181 7 ۱.9 ا ا او او 
৪১০৪৪১৪১০১২৪০১৩,‏ مٗمو‌“ٗ ہمممصصمصمس یتہب If now commonly known Dy‏ 
another name, enter such 1081116 |........ccccccccscvcccseccrsese senccsecctscenes‏ 
হা 90 ٣٣١٠.7761‏ 
Private address 257527575772-5575581‏ 
ার কার্রা রা ব্রার +70‏ 81117171 
 5555555255 0 0 ৪85৬82555৫৪‏ ں ‏ ں ںں ٣ء‏ 17708777688 
নার‏ -- -_-_[[ژَ._.,.فب-ف-ف 70000 کک5 ۹۹ 6ىَ2 
রব রাহা বারা রর র্র্যারা ররর‏ 15117111171 

Present nationality if different —.........cccccececscescsecesese esuaceuseveesens 


State if single, married, widower, 
Widow ٣۲١۲١۱۲۱۰۱۱ ٢۹ پ-پ_ . یییییییٹپییی.ٹ.- :1 7 یسییْہکہکک,ا,:اا۰,1اے- ,وج‎ 


2. Father’s full name in country of 
origin (1 BLOUR 61111617151 রানা রমরমা রূক বারাবার্ররর ররর ররর! 


67821 00585111111. یبرم تہ ٗی سی‎ 
Present nationality (if dead, give 
nationality at time ۶, // 07 টান seit 


Part IA] 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 


1787 


J 


Mother’s full name in country of 


origin (IN BLOCK LETTERS)....c:.cccccccscsssssscesscenseesceescesseess রি 


Present address (if living) 
Present nationality (if dead 
give nationality at time of 


death) 


38. Whether the applicant is a subject 


or citizen of any country whee 
an Indian citizen 13 
prevented by law or practice of 
that country from becoming a 
subject or citizen of that 
country by naturalisation 


4, Principal languages of India 


known and extent of knowledge 
thereof with evidence 


85. Statement regarding residence. 


Details of such 
residence and/or From To 


(a) I have resided in India or 
been in the service of a 
Government in India 
or partly one end 
partly the other, 
throughout the period 
of 12 monthis 
immediately preceding 
the date of this appli- 
cation 

(6) During the seven years 
immediately preceding 
the said period of 
twelve months, I have 
either resided in ص11‎ 
or been in the service 
of a Government in 
India or partly the 
one and partly ‘he 
other, for periods 
amounting in the 
aggregate to not less 
than 4 years. 


service, date. date. 


۳“ ھ ٭ ٭ ىق .۔ؿ۔ ٭ ٭ 6“ +*٭ ٤ؿ‏ 6“ “؟ٴ×٭ وو ؿٴ ٭٭. ٭ ١)٭‏ م١‏ ×“٭ ؿ ٤8 ٤8‏ ٤ؿ‏ ء8 وع ہج 8ە٭وءوۃو4+٭وہ٥+وہم‏ 


Address and/or 

details of service 

under a Govern- 
ment in India. 


Yoar. 


Months. 


1788 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Parr ۸ 


If this application is granted, 
my ittention as to future 
residence (and/or service under 
a Government in India) is us 
FOUN WEE 0 যার কা যারা রা হযরত 


6. Reasons for which applicant 
wishes to acquire Indian 
Citizenship 555৪5০০5৪০০ cers "009 


1. Approximate date of any previous 
۶ء۰۰۶‎ 60 


8. I have renounced the citizenship 
of my country in accordance 
with the law therein in force 


in that behaif تو ےت‎ SERRE oa 


[Here list the documents 
attached to prove the fact of 


১1110911311 রি 7 
9. If original name has been altered, 

give particulars ভারা erent রর রর cee amine erat 

Date ٢٣ 812..47577445787551 


Give particulars of any other 
name(s) used for private pur- 
PORCH 15722247555 84575257725 


Give particulars of any other 
name(s) used for trading or 
_business purposes বার্ন نے تب تح‎ রাত ee eae 


10. If nationality has changed since 
birth give circumstances of 
টিচার... 7 ae epee ea eee re 


If now of no nationality give 
circumatances in which the 
previous nationality was lost ,*১০,০০০০১১০১০৪২৪৪৪৪০৪১৪৪০৪৪০০৪৪০৪৪৪০৪৪৪৪৪৪০৪৪৪০৭০৯ 


Give details with dates of 
foreign countries visited during 
periods of residence shown in 
item 9 


Give details of al? proceedings‏ .+ڑ 
of any kind (civil or criminal)‏ 
taken against you in Courts of‏ 


law. 

12. 1066 of atiy com- Date of being Date of dis- 
position made adjudicated charge from 
with creditors bankrupt bankruptcy 

13. If married, give date and place Date Place 


72 


Parr IA] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1789 


Husband’s or wife’s full name Nationality. 
before marriage (IN BLOCK 
1١ 2۸ kad وج‎ 1 3 4 Re CO RO eae YT ee a nN ee 


If hushand or wife is dead, Date Place 
give ۷ٰ٣ 70س0-صص‎ 


If marriage dissolved give date Date Place 
07705 77772475778 


14. 03159 particulars of legitimate children 


Full nume of each Date of Place. Where now resident. 
child. birth. 


16. If a woman who was an Indian 
citizen previous to her marriage, 
whether her husband has died 
or whether her marriage has 
57755157১42 4458 جو‎ 


ও ৪৩95৩৩৪৪৪৫৩ ৪ ৪৪৪৪৩৪৪5৪৪৪ ৪৪ ৪৪৪৩৪৪০৪৪৪৪ جج‎ ৪৪৩৪৪৪৫৪৪৪৪ ৪৫৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪ ৪৪ ৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪ ৪5 ৪৪9৪3862588 ٥ج ٭ 8 جو وق‎ 


16. Names and addresses of at least 
two persons whose certificates 
as to character of applicant have 
been attached to the applica- 
tion. یی امنیس یت‎ ee 


17. I, the undersigned, to whom the foregoing particulars relate, hereby 
apply to the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs for the grant of a certificate of naturalisation by the 
Central Government. 


Station 71727727578, 
Date 


Affidavit to accompany the application for a certificate of naturalisation 
under the Citizenship Act, 1955. 


In the matter of the application...........ccsccer 9,707 under the 
Cubimemabp Avot. W005. Viiae বর রতন বার : 
BOGE سی جس اوت‎ 2247 PORTING و نار ہت سس تی اق‎ 


make oath and say 


do solemnly and sincerely affirm 
that the statements contained in my application hereunto annexed are true 
to the best of my knowledge and belief. 

If, at any time before a certificate is issued to me, the accuracy of any 
of the foregoing particulars is affected by an alteration in circumstances, 
I undertake to inform the Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Home Affairs in writing forthwith. 

سج جمسس ھی یت تی 7۱53010100۶82 Station‏ 
Date‏ 


1799 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Part IA 


This declaration must not be made before a person who is the solicitots 
or agent of the applicant. 


Cuution.—Section 17 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, provides that “Any 
person who, for the purpose of procuring anything to be done 
or not to be done under this Act, knowingly makes any repre- 
sentation which is false in a material particular shall be punish- 
able with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 81x 
months, or with fine, or with both.” 


Certificate of Character 


I, the undersigned, hereby state that 1 am an Indian citizen otherwise 
than by naturalisation; that I am a householder; and that I am not the 


50176116۴ :02 مس سی روس سس سس ا0 ف2ت‎ whose application 
for naturalisation, IJ am prepared to support from personal knowledge of, 
and intimate acquaintance with, the applicant سی ص10‎ years. 1 


can vouch for his/her good character and loyalty. 


Date 7১:1৭ صا سے‎ যারা রর ত্রান 
Name (IN BLOCK 87১15 5), রো 
Pull posta): :8017888.,...৮০.5০455৮। 85 25888888288843585884288 


৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪ ৪৪৪৪ ৪৩৪৪৪০৪৪৪৪৪ ৪৪৪ ৪৪৩ ৪৫3958498৯৪ 


I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen otherwise 
than by naturalisation; that I am a householder; and that I am not the 


aeons cranes whose application for‏ مھ یھر جس کسر AiR MONG OL‏ مات 
naturalisation, I am prepared to support from personal knowledge of, and‏ 
intimate acquaitance with, the applicant 10.55০5০55০5০ ০০৪০ ৪৪৪৮৪৪৯৪৯৪ ৪০০৩৭ years. I‏ 


ean vouch for his/her good character and loyalty. 


1 000097 ۷ب بں ں۹ 1یا‎ ও 
Name (IN BLOCK LATTERS)........... یہ‎ 
قظالاھة امافتتر آ75‎ উন রাহা দ্রুর্রারার রা ব্রার 


eeesretepeseaetsF eset nopensenaeges ৪৪০৪৪ ৪ ৪ ও 


Copies of two issues (in triplicate) of a newspaper or newspapers circu- 
lating in the district in which the applicant resides, each containing (clearly 
marked) an advertisement in the following form should accompany the 
application. 


“Notice is hereby given یویب بی نی ا8ط‎ 57775 
is applying to the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs for naturalisation, and that any person who knows any reason 
why naturalisation should not be granted should send a written signed 
statement of the facts to the said Secretary.” 


Part IA] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1966 1791 


Form XIII 
(See rule 18) 
CrtizeEnsHip Act, 65 
Certificate of Naturalisation 


Whereas A-B has applied for a certificate of naturalisation, alleging 
with respect to himself (herself) the particulars set out below, and has 
satisfied the Government that the condition laid down in the abovementioned 
Act for the grant of naturalisation are fulfilled in the said A-B’s case. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the powers conferred by the said Act, 
the Government hereby grants to the said A-B this certificate of naturalli- 
sation, and declares that, upon taking the oath of allegiance within the 
time and in the manner required by the rules made in that behalf he/she 
shall, subject to the provisions of the said Act, be entitled to all political 
and other rights, powers and privileges, and be subject to all obligations, 
duties and liabilities to which an Indian citizen is entitled or subject, and 
have to all intents and purposes the status of an Indian citizen. 


In witness whereof I have hereto subscribed my name this day of 


Signed 
Secretary 
Joint Secretary 


to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Home Affairs. 
Partaculars 


TEL be SEL SEE لھک تی یت‎ Cae ee রা বে en cen ween বার্ন রা র্যা 
Address..........+. Speen raider sake tesecq ease bee Re vice ররর en ones cea ener 70 
Profession OF 0٥٥٥1010801011۰1: নক যন مسر‎ 
28777558557 
81752277255 کو مسشُو تم‎ 
RUNG, 0000180 سس ہوممب مسجم جٌٗممٌصی وص مس تی گان‎ 
Namie ue. wite Or iis bad سس‎ নর হারা مم سو وی می پممسمسمیو‎ : 
۱ً) 99پ 1 1+ 0 +ًکٰف۷‎ ِ 000 


Oath of allegiance 
را‎ A-B, do solemnly affirm (or swear) that I will bear true faith and alle- 
giance to the Constitution of India as by law established, and that I will 


মি observe the laws of India and fulfil my duties as a citizen of 
ndia. 


21571775705 57255574477 

১০2) and subscribed this........................day of 19 , before‏ | 05ص۸ 
me.‏ 

مس اہی ভূর রা ong‏ سے 066 ا ن0 2<" 


وہ سس مسج یرہ سی تھا ااترتت(ا* 
*Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule 28 of the‏ 


Citizenship Rules, 1956, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of 
alJegiance is made or taken. 


[Part TA 


JULY 28, 1956 


EXTRY., 


GAZ. 


THE CAI. 


1792 


8 1 ai 0 6 8 & 9 g ۴ |) 3 I 
“017 "O4BOGIHS) 
-eoyjdde jo onsst چہآتەد-‎  “4A0r 97৩৭9 
5০ 5791910109০ pues مہ‎ jo جم‎ oy} ০ دیو‎ 9 "০০০4০ 1۹ 
Surprea.ioy ocouvizeye  -stuig ‘Arey 2099 pus ‘sjuared /ojim jo ‘aopia "40579001790 jo oyep دح یا‎ ‘ss01Ippe pus ‘ON 
"‘BHIVUIOY مو‎ jo 0 -947999 مر ٭ہ مرقصسوع  ح ہو9‎ ৪9520 چیہ .ہہ‎ ‘JomoplaA snolAcig [0 ৪০৪1৭ ۳9ہ‎ [Ry [91399 
چم ھروچہ‎ jo Fue, /3595০93 و۸‎ eqwoyiqseo س٥ی‎ >8 چتمرد٭روہ‎ 
3৪82 ০% 3০ ৪০৫ 2০ چورومرعوجزم-‎ jd ০ ০9ড্যন্থ 
8897094930০? ৪৭0 ০% BV 
১০ یپ‎ 


sounbayy fo ৮4220 Pun uoMosipsngoy fo ০০3০০০4০০4০ 19381693 
096] ‘LOY dIHSNGZLLIQ 
[(8)6 ear ০০5'] 
AIX ۴8ً 


Part IA] THE CAL. GAZ, BXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 1793 


This form when completed should be forwarded in triplicate to the C hief 
0 to the Government of the State in which the applicant ts resident. 


Form XV 
(See rule 20) 


CrTrzEnsuHIp AcT, 1955—Srcrion 8 


Declaration of intention to resume Indian Citizenship under section 8(2) of the 
Act made by a person who has ceased to be an Indian citizen on the loss 
of Indian citizenship by his father in accordance with the provisions of 
section 8(1) of the 4 ct, 


1. I, A-B, of [here insert address of declarant] was born 86۱+ 
SUCH ReeeHregseoececoneneese حدم ح688 د+ووٛ(ہی قوج رر رر‎ on وو و+و٭وہوجوہوورووجہجم‎ REPRE EEUU 45৪5385558৬ 
2. My father’s full name is/was..,.........068 + টিটি ہے ےس‎ 


3. I ceased to be an Indian citizen by virtue of sub-section (1) of section 
8 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, om......ccccccsecseeees by reason of the fact that 


[Here state the cause whereby the declarant’s father and the declarant 
ceased to be Indian citizens, the year and date in which they ceased to 
Indian citizens and all other relevant information. ] 


4. If I had not so ceased to be an Indian citizen, I should now be an 
Indian citizen by reason of the fact that 


[Here state the grounds on which the declarant claims that he or she 
would have been such a citizen. [ 


5. I hereby declare my intention to resume Indian citizenship and apply 
to the Central Government to register this declaration. 


I, A-B, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing particulars 
stated in this declaration are true, and ] make this solemn declaration cons- 
clentiously believing the same to be true. 


চিট CUNO en ycnys suvuk semen eycenvqun cues sa 


155 ere en) 


J, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen otherwise 
than by naturalization; that I am a house-holder and that I am not the 


8011110 ,7ھ و‎ +509 .+e L vouch for the correct- 
ness of the statements made ا0٣٣۱!‎ না নর 
,کا ا لاو وی‎ 0 
22:55 7555555577255524557 

14 এনা তরল سے‎ 
Name (21) 131,0035. 1405), ...,.১১,১১১১১০১০০১০০১০৭, 


1704 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 ]۲۸۶ ۸ 
৯ সস 
Oath of allegiance 

I, A-B, do solemnly affirm (or swear) that I will bear true faith and 
allégiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, and that I will 


es fully observe the laws of India and fulfil my duties as a citizen of 
ndia. 


Stonature...cessceevaes يك‎ 


Designation ئب۱‎ নন 
Affirmed /Sworn and subscribed this سی‎ day of 19 , before me. 
WSIPNACUIE ...১১০০০,০০০১, রদ রে pares 
#Designation «৭ ৭১১১০১০১০০৭ রে 
77076021078 
Full wame.. ٛ> 0 ےد مین مرا ہی سو ےت‎ 
77227752777 
Profession or 0000])9861010,,,১৮১ ০০১০১০০০৪০০ | کے‎ 


Place and date of 00ت 0 9ی ۱و‎ 
۰۰,",.,۷"۳ ٘ 0كئمس0كی8۳‎ 
Single, married, ...: nen ee নান Or | و رر‎ a 


Name of wife or husband.....,......0ccccccecsceecccnees ৮০০০৪ سیر قد‎ ০ রন 


Names and nationalities of parents ...১০০১০০১০০০০০৪০০৪১০১৪০৪৪৪৪ ৪ ৪৪০৪১৪১১৪৪৪১৪০১ tae 


Names and particulars of mimor children, if any......sc.cccsecossvceccsuseveseesaees 
eee eer eeesmeeutheresteeeeseee® ৪৫৪ ও و‎ eee ৪৪৩৪৪ 8٢ ৪৪র৪৪৪৪৪৪৩০৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪১৪৭৪৪৪ C8 FS eeeraeenesenreeree® جس‎ ও ৬ 


এ এ 


ee 

*Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule 28 of the 
Citizenship Rules, 1956, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of 
allegiance is made or taken. 


৪৪990 JO MOpLa 8جو وو-‎ 
i ‘syuered حود رم جوۃہ‎ "্নখণ uoMned 
গিরি joscuru jo چو‎ ০9797 7০90 ود‎ 488994101০8 “ON 
ج118 این یر‎ “SUOHSN Pav ost 8079595০ [চে جودڑ٭تہلاو‎ jo ouwu [ [398 


۹9986 “LOY وہسعتحعدس×علعتة‎ 
ج0(ع)]‎ opr ০9] 
TAX ৪০ 


1796 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Part IA 


TT سہسِیسی_س__س پچ کإِ-‎ 
This form when completed should be forwarded in triplicate to the Chief 


Secretary to the Government of the State in which the applicant ہو‎ 
resident. 
Form XVII 
[See rule 21(1)] 
CiT1zENsHIP Act, 1955, 950৭0 8 


Declaratun of renunciation of citazenship under section 8 of the Act 
e by a citizen of India who 1s also a_ citizen or national of another 


country. - 

1. I, A-B, of [here insert address of declarant] am of full capacity and 
rfid OI 8: سس‎ cee eee eon سے‎ SE RaCA Oe রাতে ররারি ভ্রাতা nae ee 
74525 

2. I have/have not been married. 

8. ] am a citizen/national 01,,,০,১৮০০১২০০১০৪০০৪০০৩৪৪৪০৪১৪০১, under the law of 


that country. 
4. I hereby renounce my citizenship of India. 


I, A-B, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the foregoing particulars 
stated in this declaration are true, and I make this solemn declaration con- 
scientiously believing the same to be true. 


২5111170114 ۷۱۹۲۹ 

Made and subscribed this...........cccsccesssececevees (77757277227 
2330ء‎ , before me. 

سم یہ سس سس سک کت کات ت5“ 

:8 سس 


*Signature and designation of the officer authorised under rule 28 of the 
Citizenship Rules, 1956, before whom the registration, declaration or oath of 
allegiance is made or taken. 


POL OSMON IE ORI PAGO উর n ts oes লরি مس رسس مس‎ রানার রা 
Pisce 550-0316 Of ری کھت مس سسجت می سیئر ساس مس سس تا ا ھڑتا‎ 
۲5۰0130 051110 دس رت سس ریت انس کہ رسس سرت‎ : 
গিয়ার 7012772757452554785755777777577574428 
Nemecnt waite of Wuehann নিন্হ ব্রা দি রন্রান্ন্লা রর রা রারানরযাদিলা ররর eran een 


৪৪৪6599৪৪2%58$৪৫%7889569$5595৪০৪৪৪৫এ৪৩৪৪৪৫৪৪৪ ৪৪৪৪৪৪৪০৪০৪ ৪ ৪৪ ডর ےرڈ‎ 986৪665৪568 88$৪৪৪৪৪৫৪৪৪৪৪৬৪৪৪ ৪৫৪৪৩৪৪৪৪৪৪ রও ত 


I, the undersigned, hereby state that I am an Indian citizen otherwise 
than by naturalisation ; that I am householder; and that I am not the solicitor 
ر٠ 77877777720رک رون‎ 


I vouch for the correctness of the statements made by............... 0 নান 
Pile eee বা و اس ہد می سشہ ہب بت‎ in his application 
٠٠ ۳کی9‎ 
۰"  ٰص-‎ 
هه6: ,۱ رپ ا‎ 
Name (in Block صسبببئیییی|]+[|۱۰۷۱ًْ/,,(1686678‎ 
Full postal address................. مت ےت‎ 


1797 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 


Part IA] 


۲00۹7 17 رت‎ ۵ “9702 
s1ounuel “ত্য 93০0 001 
jo 0083 euloyH jo jo Aso سر ہے رع‎ ০০5১০ ০৪1 ۲97 
ا سب اس کس وی اس دو جو-‎ JO ضفماچحمھ‎ -ed ا زا۵ را‎ 
اق‎ 50০ 00০35 "ge 9%07০./:45%  ہوعم .اص‎ 4594501014 ৭৪0৪৩ ۹نوکا" حمورود۔‎ -010000 “ssoIppe 
36990] 04 ‘elepso وہ‎ -e10eg Aq 80174 ‘ems 3০ soureu jo এব jo up Jo 0019 pus 2031০ “ON 


“এসএ 00০ 9308 _ 99০০এ৩০  আ০1%৩5911৮ ৪০গা ‘POLE [াচগ্র “SUCHEN ঢল چ رہہ‎ "০ کر‎ oursu یمج‎ 12৯9 
ররর রর 


dsysuazino upspuy fo uosrounuas fo 94০20421999 fo 499০০ 
0067 “LOY dIHSNEZLLIO 
111۸7 Na0g 


1798 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 28, 1956 [Pant ۸ 


- omy 


SR ee ৫.০ ےو ست۔ ید جوووھ‎ 7০. ود ہو‎ ce এ ৮ ee RS ooh] | | | লাশ» he ee 


SCHEDULE I] 
(See rule 25) 


1. (1) When the Central Government refers the cage of a citizen of 
India to a Committee of Inquiry under sub-section (3) of section 10 (which 
relates to deprivation of راو‎ of India}, the Committee of Inquiry 
(in this Schedule referred to as “the Committee’) shall before holding the 
inquiry, cause notice to be given to the person to whom the inquiry relates, 
atuting the time and the pluce where it will be held and the natuze thereof 
and informing him that ۳ will be entitled to be present and/or to be 
represented by counsel or solicitor, or if the Committee think fit, by sane 
other person approved by them. 


(2) A notice under this rule may be given, 


(a2) in a case where the address of the person concerned is known, by 
causing the notice to be delivered to him personally or by 
sending it to him at the addresa by post; 


(6) in a case where that person’s address is nut known, by sending it 
to his last known address and in such manner, if any, da the 
Chairman of the Committee shall consider fit. 


3) A notice as aforesaid shall be given such time (not being leas fhan 
30 days) before the holding of the inquiry as the Chairman of the Committee 
shall consider reasonably necessary. 


2. A notice under paragraph 1 may require the person concerned 
answer it in writing and to furnish in writing to the Comittee an: 
information which they consider material, to be verified in such manner 
as they may require. 


.. ہے‎ (1) The Committee shall have all the powers of a Civil Court for 
the purpose of taking evidence on oath, enforcing the attendance of 
witnesses, issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses, and 
compelling the production of documents. 


(2) The Committee shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for all the 
(কলেরা of section 195 and Chapter XXV of the Code of Criminal 
rocedure, 1898 (V of 1898). 


4. The Committee may act upon any information which is available 
whether or not such information is given on oath or would be admissible as 
evidence in a court. 


5. The Committee may invite any Government department or Ministry 
of the Government of India which appears to them to be interested to 
appoint a person to represent the department or Ministry at the inquiry. 


6. (1) The Committee may act notwithstanding uny vacancy in their 
number, and the quorum of the Committee shall be two. 


(2) The Committee may delegate one or more of their members to 
inquire into any কিমা med matter relating to the inquiry, and the member 
er members so delegated shall, for this purpose, have all the powers of the 
Committee under sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 3. 


_ 1% The Committee may postpone or adjourn the inquiry from time to 
6, 


Part JA]. THE CAL. GAZ. 52008 JULY 28, 1956 1799 


সস সস সস ১৯৯  ٹٹجی‎ 


_8. The Committee muy allow or refuse to allow the public or any 
wértion thereof to be present during the whole or any part of the mquiry. 


9. Subject tu the foregoiug paragraphs, the procedure at the inquiry 
shall be such us the Committee may determine. 


SCHEDULE If] 
[| See rule 3003) | 


» 1. Where it appears to the Central Glovernment that a citizen of India 
has voluntarily uequired the citizenship of any other country, it may 
require him to prove within such period as may be fixed by it in this 
behalf, that he has not voluntarily acquired the citizenship of that cuuntry; 
and the burden of proving that he has not so acquired such citizenship 


shall be on him. 


2. For the purpose of determining «any question relating ) tho 
uequisition by an Indian citizen of the citizenship of any other country, 
the Central Government may make such reference as it thinks fit in 
reapect of that question or of any matter relating thereto, to its Limbasay 
in that country or to the Government of that country and act on any report 
or information received in pursuance of such reference, 


3. The fact that a citizen of India has obtained on any date a passport 
from the Government of any other country shall be conclusive proof of his 
having voluntarily acquired the citezenship of that country before that date. 


4. In determining whether « citizen of India has or has not voluntarily 
acquired the citizenship of any other country, the Central Government may 
take the following circumstances into consideration, namely :— 


(a) whether the person has migrated to that country with the intention 
of making 1t his permanent home; 


(6) whether he has in fact taken up permanent residence in that 
country; and 


(c) any other circumstances relevant to the purpose. 


۳ 


0. Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 4, a citizen of 
সি shall be deemed to have voluntarily acquired the citizenship of 
-*akistan— 


(a) if he has migrated to Pakistan with the intention of making it his 
permanent home; or 


(9) 1f he has obtained any certificate of domicile in Pakistan or 
declared himself to be a citizen of Pakistan or of Pakistan 
domicile; or ‘ 


(c) 1f he has applied for and obtained, a right, title or interest in 
evacuee property in Pakistan; or 


(0) 11 he has obtained a temporary permit for entry into India from 
. Pakistan. 


188 THE CAL. GAZA. EATRY., 1۷1١ 28, 0 [Pari LA 


Seana ۸۲ھ‎ --For the purpose of clause (a) of this paragraph, 2<: 
shall not be deemed to have migrated to-Pahistan with a view to making’ 
that country his permanent home— 


(i) Tf he has left for 10101 West Pakistan with « “no , objection 
certificate’ and has returned to Indja under auch permit for 
permanent return or resettlement as may have been 13510 by or 
under the authority of any law in force in India or of. the 
Government of India, or 

(11) if having left Tndia at any time between the Ist February, 1950 
and the 15th October, 1942, for a place in Wert Pakistart, he has 
returned to India with a repatriation certificate issued by of. 
under the authority of any و‎ m force in India of of 16 
Government of India. 


SCHEDULE IV 
[See rule 31(1)] 
Table of Fees 


০ ৪ 


ee আপ শপ eee ee জর omens oy od 


Amount 
Matter in which fee is to be taken of 188. 
Rupees 
Registration as a citizen under section 4 of the Citizenship Act, 
962 of :— 
(1) Alien woman—o(1)(c) . oo 0 0 
__ (ts) Minor child—5(1)(d) . 10 0.0 
(it) Any other minor—5(4) . 90 U 0 
Grant of certificate of naturalisation ... WO 0 0 
Graut of a certificate of citizenship in case of doubt wo §=629 9 
Witnessing the signing of an 2 5 or declaration men- 
tioned in Rule 18 of these rules : 812 0 
Administering the oath of allegiance 
Registration of a declaration of intention to resume Indian 
ritizenship or of renunciation of Citizenship . wb 0 0 
Supplying a certified true copy of any notice. certificate, order, 
declaration, or entry given, granted or made by or under the 
Citivenship Act, 1955 . 0 0 0 


Supplying a certified true copy of a certificate of natuzalisution 15 0) 0 


[No. 2/46-11 
A. V, PAT, ۹٦ 


Printad and yublished by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West ادجوؤلا‎ 


at Wear آاد۱۱۸۱(۶‎ Covernment Press, Alipore on the 28th July 1956 


Registered No. C207 


a 
২১ 
= $9: 7 2 
২) ৯৬১ 74৮/28/1 
و‎ ৮ اہی‎ 7” 
ٰ 2, بانج‎ 
۰ٰ : 
৫0481111118 ۱ 
w ' 
م‎ 


extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1956 


PART IA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory 
Notifications of the Election Commission, India, and other Election 
Notifications published for general information. Orders and 
Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette 
of India” are only republished. 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


Ministry of Production 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 8th June 1950 

১.1.0). 1242/Kss. Com(5).—In exercise of the powers conterred by 
section 5 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1900 (No. 10 of 1985), the 
Central Government hereby directs that the powers conferred on it by 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act to provide for the matters 
specified in sub-section (2) thereof shall, in relution to salt, which is an 
item of foodstuff under sub-clause (v) of clause (a) of section 2, be exercis- 
able also by any State Government, subject to the condition that— 

(a) betore making any order relating to any matter specified in clauses 
(a), (c), (d) and (f) of sub-section (2) of section 3, the State 
Government shall obtain the concurrence of the Central 
Government; 

(b) no order made in exercise of the atoresaid powers shall have eftect 
so as to prohibit or restrict the eaport from any place 11) the 
State to any place outside Indiu, of galt. 


(No. 9/1/55-Fy.1L. ] 


A. NANU, 
Dy. Secy. to the Government of India, 


4 


ہے 


a a ছি 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bongal. 
at West Iengal Government Press, Alipore on the 28th July 1956. 


1801 


Registered No. C207 No. 38901) 


Calrutta 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SUNDAY, JULY 29, 1966 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the 
High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR 


ORDER 

No. 3136Dis. /D/11L-381 /55.—18th July 1956-—Whereas under the 
(jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6931Dis./D/ 
11L-381/55, dated the 19th December 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Marwari Relief Society, Rasayansala Branch, Lillooah, Howrah, and 
their workmen represented by Jtasayansala (Chemical Industry) Mazdoor 
Union, 48 Dharamtolla Street (Ist floor), Calcutta, regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the 
Segond Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State (tovernment its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the (Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 
In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Marwari Relief 
Society, Rasayansala Branch, Lillooah, Howrah, and their workmen 
represented by Rasayansala (Chemical Industry) Mazdoor Union, 
48 Dharamtolla Street (ist floor), Calcutta. 
BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: 
ہویب‎ G. P. MUKHERJER, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 
Appearances : ; 
Mor the employees: Shri Shankar Roy Chowdhury, Secretary, 
Rasayansala (Chemical Industry) Mazdoor Union. 
For the Society: Shri B. 1. Dutta, Secretary, Marwari Relief Society 
(Rasayansala Department). 


1803 


1804 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 29, 1956 {Parr | 


By order No. 5931Dis./1/11L-381/55, dated 19th December 1955, the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, referred the above 
dispute to this Tribunal for adjudication regarding the matters specified in 
the schedule. 


Schedule 


(1) Pay and dearness allowance. 

(2) House allowance. 

(3) Leave. 

(4) Bonus. 

(5) Retiring benefits. 

(6) If the present scheme of leave for three months by rotation to 
nine workers is justified, and to what relief they are entitled. 

(7) if the suspension and dismissal of Jamuna Pandey is justified, and 
par relief by way of reinstatement and/or compensation he is 
entitled. 


AWARD 


It is not necessary for me to enter into the facts of this dispute, as 
the parties have amicably settled the same, and have filed a joint petition 
of compromise this day. The terms of settlement are embodied in the 
said joint petition of compromise. Perused the petition of compromise. 
The terms appear to be fair and reasonable, and as such they are given 
effect to. Accordingly, an award is passed in terms of the petition 01 
compromise, which be made part of the award as Annexure A. 


0. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. Second [ndustrial Tribunal. 
The 29th June 1956. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge. 
20-6-0. 


ANNEXURE A 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. WEST BENGAL 
Soa G. 1১. MUKHERJEE, Judge. 


the matter of West Bengal Covernment order No. 5931Dis. /D /11L-381 /‏ ما 
dated 19th December 1955, and in the matter of 011 industrial‏ ,55 
dispute between Marwari Relief Society, Rasayansala Department,‏ 
Calcutta (to be hereinafter known as the Company), and their workmen‏ 
represented by Rasayansala (Chemical Industries) Mazdoor Union,‏ 
Dharmatolia Street, Calcutta (to be hereinafter known 85 the‏ 48 
Union).‏ 


The humble petition of compromise for both the Company and_ the 
Union most respectfully sheweth— a 


(1) That after proper negotiation between the Secretary of the 881 
Company, Shri Bajrangalal 75880 and the Secretary of the said Union 


Part J) THE OAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 29, 1966 1805 
چستجے‎ পাশাপাশি 

১1) Shankar Roy Chowdhury, the 10110%11)6 terms of settlement have been 
jointly agreed : 


(2) Classification.—That clerical] and subordinate staff shall be classified 
as follows :— 
(a) Permanent and 
(b) Temporary. 
A permanent employee is one who has been appointed on a permanent 
basis. A temporary employee 18 one who has been engaged for work which 
is of an essentially temporary nature likely to be finished within limited 


period and 8180 includes an employee who has been appointed on probation 
and, has not .been confirmed as. permanent. 


All appoigtments, unless specifically mentioned, will be for 0 proba- 
tionary period for six months or more and wil] be considered as temporary. 
On the expiry of six months, the Management will consider each case for 
confirmation and, if found suitable, the employee will be confirmed and 
made permanent. Otherwise, he will be discharged or his probation period 
muy be further extended. The Management has the right to discharge an 
employee at any time during his probation period on a notice of 24 houra 
or pay in lied of notice. The Management will maintain a register of 
service of permanent employees showing their names, dates of appointment 
and the scale of pay. 7 


(9) T'ransfer.—Services of all employees are liable to be transferred from 
one section to another or from one department or branch to another after 
considering the question of granting extra facilities which might be 
thought justified by the Management. 


(4) Leave, etc.—That leave and holidays will be granted as under :— 


(a) Clerk, Darwan, Peon and Sweeper— 
(1) Casual leave—15 days in a year with pay. 
(ii) Sick leave—15 days in a year with pay. 

(111) Privilege leave—One month with pay in a yeur. 
(iv) Festival leave—12 days. 


(v) Sundays. 


(b) Workers— 
(i) Sick leave—15 days in a year with half pay. 
(ii) Privilege leave (statutory leave) —15 days in a year. 
(111) Casual leave—7 days in a year with pay. 
(iv) Festival leave—1l2 days. 
(v) Sundays. 
(6) Procedure of discharge.—That except in cases of misdemeanours, 


the employment of a permanent employee cannot be terminated except by 
proper notice. 


1806 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 29, 1966 [Parr I 
Pee rer ee ero rer ভা ও te وڈ‎ ee re 


(6) General increment.—The following increment list sanctioned for 
workers will come into force from March 1956 and to the rest from April 
1956 :-— 


Increment List of Rasayansala 


Namo. Designation, Clarsifica- Present  Incre- Total, 
tion. salary. mont. 


Jiwanlal Misra .. Manager -۰: a 300 0 ove oe 
Gobind Mantri .. Fy. Managor is oe 200 0 ৬৪ - 
Jagannath Sharma .. Accountant ee ৩ 2609 0 = — 
Surajmal Sharma ..- Accountant eve = 200 0 on as 
Fatechand Sharma ». Cashier .. “A’’ Grade 125 0 5 0 1380 0 
Lalita Pd, Singh .. Aosountant and Do, ee 95 0 10 0 105 9 
Store-keeper. 
Hanimen Pd, Sharma .. Purchaser  .. Do. ہے‎ 1500 wm 150 0 
Jagdish Pd, Joshi .. General Assistant Do. ০০ 110 0 ت5‎ 0 115 9 
Sankate Pd. Sribastava Type and File .. Do. ow 100 9 & 9 105 0 
Ramaagar Tewar! .. Order and Bill .. Do. us 105 9 5 0 110 0 


Kailash Pd. Singh .. Order, ete. .. “B’’ Grade 60 0 15 0 75 0 


Jagnarayan Ojha .. Assistant Kaviraj Kavira} سے‎ 85 0 25 0 110 0 
Dhanraj Nathany .. Store-keeper .. “A’ Grade 130 0 ت5‎ 0 186 0 
Ramseuresh Tewari .. Leave .. “B’’ Grade 60 0 5 0 65 0 
Ramdeo Singh .. In-charge . Do ** 62 8 & 8 68 0 
Narbadeshwar Ojha* .. Booking Clerk .. Do. مہ‎ 60 0 5 0 65 0 
Nahta (K.C. Nahta) .. Sales Supervisor .. oe 125 0 ) As they are getting 
: commissions, 80 
D, N. Kabra .. Canvasser -7 7 100 0 no increment is 
ws recommended, 
Jogendra Singh .. Canvaasser ae 7 100 9 
Bhuneswar Jha .. Canvaasser -۰ ৬ 100 0 
Kapil Prosad .. Head Durwan ১, ۰٦ 60 9 -٦۰2 60 9 
Nageswarlal .. Durwan re 7 55 0 & 9 60 ০ 
Ayodhya Singh .. Durwan és ee 50 0 4 0 54 0 
Ram Ekbal .» Durwan oe i 50 9 4 0 54 9 
Ram Bahadur .. Bearer i a 50 0 4 0 54 0 


৯‏ سے سے ے سے “ےس سے 
*Narbadeshwar Ojhe (Booking Clerk) has sanction of Ra. 5 allowance per morith with voucher,‏ 


Part 1 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 29, 1956 


1807 


১৯‏ ہت 


Name, 


Radhe Mohan 


Kashi 


Kishun Mistry ٠۰ 


Bhuneswer 

Keshab 

Bajrangji 

Patroo ৪ on 
Sitaram -7 ٠ 
Sukhi Shaw 

Gorak Singh و‎ 
Mahendra .. = 
Abudh Behari 

Harilel Roy 


Ba Chamisra 


Banwari Ram ee 


Garib Ram .. 
Genpat 
Jairam 


Matadin -٦ 


Rameswer Bari ve 


Hari Bansha Singh 
Mehesh Ram 

Tilangi 

Gama Ahir .. ٠ 
Kripanand Misra 
Biswanath Hajam 
Rajpati Ahir -۰ 


Ram Brich .. 


Dosignation. 


Bearer 7 
Sweeper 

Mechanic 
Carpenter 

Bhati 

Oil 

Asab 

Pal Packing .. 
Ras Basam 

Label packing 


Labour =i 


Classifica- 


tion, 


Present Incre- Total, 
salary. ment. 

Re. a. Ra, a. Ra, ৬, 
49 0 5 9 54 9 
50 9 oe 50 ৪9 
83 0 2 0 86 0 
60 0 -۰ 69 9 
66 ৪ 2 8 68 0 
65 8 2 8 68 0 
58 9 $ 0 61 0 
5B 9 3 0 61 0 
5B 0 7 0 65 0 
53 ও 3 0 56 0 
63 0 $ 0 56 ۵ 
53 9 8 ও 56 ও 
53 0 8 0 56 0 
50 0 6 0 56 0 
50 0 6 0 56 0 
55 0) Of these four men, 

the two persons 

55 091 whofwill work at 

thela will be given 

85 9 allowarice of Ra, 5. 
55 0 
50 ۵ 4 0 54 0 
50 0 4 9 54 0 
50 9 4 0 54 ۵ص‎ 
50 0 4 0 64 9 
60 0 4 0 54 9 
60 0 4 0 54 0 
50 0 4 0 54 0 
50 ৪ 4 0 54 9 
50 0 4 0 54 ۵ 


1808 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 29, 1956 (Parr J 


PS 
Name. Designation. Classifiva- Present Incre- Total. 
tion, salary, ment, 

Ra, a. Rs, a. Rs. ৬, 

Jagat Ram .. ٦ er Ordinay .. 50 0 4 0 54 ۵ 
Lab. 

Dhaneswar Shaw i er Do. 50 0 4 0 54 0 
Jamuna Pandey یھ‎ ও وہ وہ‎ Do. | رف 0 وق‎ 50 0 
Jyotish Tewari 7 رہ‎ Do, .. 45 0 & 0 ৮) ৪ 
Sudorahan .. ae pian 1(0. ہہ‎ 45 0 5 0 60 0 
Bihari Ahir .. ٠ ant Do. .. 45 0 5 0 50 0 
Kalicharan .. - Seen Do. .. 45 0 5 0 50 0 
Mahatma Singh 7 re Do. *৪ 45 0 & 0 6) 9 
Biswanath No, 2 es 5 Do. .. 45 0 5 0 50 0 


(7) Grades.—That besides this, the followmg grade or grades will be 
introduced from now on :— 


(1) Ordinary labour—Rs. 60—1 }—.6§8-12. 
(2) Skilled labour—Rs. 565—1/8—77-8. 
(3) Mechanical labour—Rs. 70—2—100. 
(4) Clerical staff— 
Grade ‘‘A’’—Rs, 100—4—160. 
Grade ‘“‘B’’—Rs. 60—3—105. 
(6) Durwan, Bearers and Sweepers—Ks. 50—1}—68-12. 
(6) Kaviraj (¥n-charge, Manufacturing Section)—KRs. 100—4—160. 
No grade is recommended for people getting over Rs. 160. Although 


grades are being created, it is clearly understood that the yearly increment 
is subject to attendance, good behaviour, etc. 


(8) Free Quarters.—That the Company will allow its workmen to use 
their quarters at Lillooah without any charge. This facility is not 
transferable as long as it is not rented out. 


(9) Rotation System.—That the rotation has been discontinued. 


(10) Dismissal of J, Pandey.-That Jamuna Pandey will be allowed 
ما‎ work in the factory as before without any compensation and his 
continuity of the service will be maintained treating the period from the 
date of suspension to the date of reinstatement as being leave without any 


pay. 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., JULY 29, 1956 1809 
i مسصسدسپسًہجؤ و ِٗ‌ ڑسسسویس>->-ے٭ےًص×ىًىِسسسو+بم+صجح-ص‫ٌٔپ×ٗٔسصمصم٢+5+۰+بجىعذمسسوسسس سکس سس وس سج ڑ‎ 

(11) General.—That all other facilities as are granted to the employces 
now will be continued. As regards the items which could not be agreed 
upon, and as such not included in this agreement, both parties will be 
governed by existing law and practice. 


ber Prayer.—That the Company and the Union pray that these terma 
of settlement be recorded and an award be made on the terms stated 
hereinbefore and to pass such other order or orders og may be deemed ا‎ 
and proper. 


And for this act of kindness your petitioners, as in duty bound, will 
ever pray. 


Dated 28th June 1956. 


For the Union— 
SHANKAR ROY CHOWDHURY, 
Secretary, 
Rasayansala বস Industry) Mazdoor Union, 
48, Dharmatolla Street (1st floor), 
Calcutta. 
For the Company— 
B. L. LATH, 
: Secretary, 
Marwari Relief Society 
(Rasayansala Department), 
391 Upper Chitpur Road, 
Calcutta. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, ক Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. MAITRA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


সিট 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Preas, Alipore, on the 29th July 1956. 


Registered No. 0287” NO. 31011) 


9۶۱ 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 30, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Government Treasury. etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 


Public Health 
NOTIFICATION. 


No. P.H. 2769/2R-39/56.—28th July 1956.—Whercas the Governor is 
aatistied that the municipal area of Berhampore is threatened with an out- 
break of smallpox; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powor conferred by section 2 of the 
Epidemic Diseases Aci, 1897 (IIT ot 1897), the Governor is pleased to 
prescribe the following temporary regulations for the prevention and control 
of smallpox, and for the medical inspection, isvlation, observation and 
surveillance of persons suffering from or suspected of being infected with 
smallpox in the said municipality for a period of three months :— 


Temporary Regulations for the Prevention and Control of Smallpox. 


1. In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the 
subject or context :— 

(a) 79810) Officer” means the Health Officer of the municipality ; 

(b) “Sanitary Inspector” means a Sanitary Inspector appointed by 
the municipality ; 

(c) “Smallpox” means any disease accompanied by an eruption or 
vesicles or pustules; 

(d) “Patient” means o person suffering from or suspected to be suffer- 
ing from smallpox; 

(e) “Medical practitioner” means any person practising the medical 
profession. 


181] 


1812 THE CAL. GAZ, MATRY., JULY JO, 1996 [11501 1 


Notices. 


2. If in any case the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector conswers 
that the issue of a notice under these regulations is likely to lead to such an 
amount of delay as might facilitate the spread of smallpox, he may torth- 
with take such steps as he may think fit for carrying out the work and shall 
thereafter as soon as possible, issue a notice on the person concerned stating 
the reason why such work hus been carried out. 


8. If any measure which the Health (tlicer or « Sanitary Inspector 
has, by a notice issued under these regulations required to be carried out, 
be not carried out to his satisfaction within the time stated in the notice 
the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector shall be entitled to carry out 
the measure, 


Cost and compensation. 


4. (1) All expenses incurred in carrying out any work in pursuance of 
an order issued under these regulations shall he paid by the municipalit: 
except in any case where the order directs a person to carry out any we = 
in relation to property in his possession, in which case the expenses shu 
be paid by such person: 


Provided that where the conditions, which led the Health Officer or a 
Sanitary Inspector to pass such an order, are not attributable to any act 
or default of the person in possession of the property, the municipality 
may pay to such person the whole or a part of the expenses incurred by 
him in carrying out the order. 


(2) The municipality may recover al] expenses incurred by the Health 
Officer or a Sanitary Inspector in carrying out the measure under regula- 
tion 3 from the person or persons to whom the notice was originally issued. 


6. The municipality shall pay adequate compensation to any person 
who has sustained substantial loss or damage by reason of anything done 
under these regulations: 


Provided that no person shall receive any compensation for anything 
done or suffered under these regulations, if he has failed to carry out an 
order, issued under these regulations within the time specified in the order 
and to the satisfaction of the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector. 


Location of disease. 


0. When a case of smallpox occurs in a house, the nearest male rela- 
tive in attendance upon the patient, or in the absence of any such relative 
the occupier of the house, or if the occupier be the patient, the senior 
male inmate of the house other than patient of the house shall within 
twenty-four hours of the onset of the disease, give information regarding 
the occurrence of such case either personally or in writing to the nearest 
Sanitery Inspector. When the inmates of the house are all females the 
medical attendant or the senior male inmate of the nearest house shall 
give the required information. 


7. (1) Every medical practitioner called in to attend upon any case of 
smallpox shall forthwith give notice of the case by a special messenger 
to the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector and the cost of_such messenger 
in each case shall he defrayed by the municipality. 


Pane 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EX'TRY., JULY 30, 1956 1813‏ 
سس سس سے سس سر سے ھا سے سے سے سے سے سے سس سس سح بے سس سس سے سے ےس سس ৯৯ সস SS eS SR‏ 


(2) The Doctor-in-charge of a hospitul or a dispensary within the 
wunicipality shall forthwith give notice of any case of smallpox brought 
tu such hospital or dispensary for treatment to a Sunitary Inspector or td 
the Health Officer by « special messenger and the cost of such messenger 
in each case shall be defrayed by the municipality. 


8. Registrars of births and deaths shall supply to the Health Officer or 
a Sanitary Inspector such periodical returus of case of smallpox as he 
may from time to time call upon them to furnish. 


9. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may examine any person 
who is or suspected to bo, suffering f1om smallpox or who, in his opinion, 
miy be infected with or likely to spread smallpox. 


isolation of patients, 


10. When the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector considers that the 
Yolation of any patient is a precaution necessary for the protection of the 
neighbouring population, he shall order the patient to observe isolation 
md may order the nearest relative in attendance on the patient, or the 
aecupier of the house in which the patient is staying to arrange for the 
iwolation of the patient in such a manner and for such a time as may be 
approved by the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector. 


[9 shall not direct the ۱ yatient to be removed from the house unless 
it is, in his opinion, impossible to make proper arrangements for his isola- 
tion therein, 


11. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may order that any 
person who has been in contact with a person found to be suffering from 
smallpox, shall be segregated for a period not exceeding a fortnight in a 
manner and in a place to be approved by the Ilealth Officer or a Sanitary 
Inspector. 


12. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may order that any 
person who has been in contact with a person found to be suffering 170] 
small-pox shall be vaccinated or re-vaccinated within a time to be specified 
in the order. 


13. No person shall enter any place wherein a patient is isolated under 
৮0701111010 10 without the permission of the Health Officer or a Sanitary 
Inspector. 


14. When a patient has been removed from a house for isolation under 
reguiation 10, the municipality shall provide for him force of charge a 
suitable place, with necessary attendants, diet, etc. 


1h. No person, who is or has been suffering from smallpox, shall 
leave the place where he has been staying until he has received from the 
Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector written permission to do so. 


16. No person while suffering from evident symptoms of smallpox 
or in the convalescent state of the disease with scaba of pocks on من(‎ 
body shall expose himself in any street, road, public place, shop, bazar 
or any place used in common by persons, other than members of the 
family or household to which such infected person belongs or shall move 
চা one to place unless he is proceeding to a hospital for admission and 
reatment,. 


1814 THE CAL. GAZ. UXTRY., JULY 30, 1956 [Part 1 


17. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may, during the pre- 
valence of any outbreak of smallpox, order that any bazar, shop or other 
public place shall remain closed for such time as may uppear to be neces- 
sury and may forbid the holding of any fair, mela or other guthering to 
which people from several villages commonly or periodically resort. 


Miscellaneous. 


18. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may require any person 
to allow to be carried out by such agency and within such time as may be 
specified in the order, such measures for the disinfection of any premises 
in the occupation of such person or for the disinfection or destruction of 
any of. his personal effects, as the said officer or inspector may consider 
necessary. 


19. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may direct the ov 
or occupier of any premises to take steps to have vaccinated or re-vaccina 
within a time to be specified in the order any person residing on such pr 
mises and under the control of such owner or occupier if the Health Officer’ 
or a Sanitary Inspector is of opinion that such person has been in contact 
with anyone suffering from smallpox. 


20. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may forbid any person 
who has been a patient or who has to his knowledge been in contact wit 
a patient to act as vendor of any article for such period as may be রি 
in the order. 


_ 21. No person shall sell any article which’ has been in contact with a 
‘patient until it has been disinfected to the satisfaction of the Health Officer 
ar a Sanitary Inspector. 


92. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may issue general orders 
that by a specified date certain sanitary precautions of & simple nature, 
such as lime-washing of house, clearing of latrines or the removal of -filth 
or rubbish shall be carried out to his satisfaction. 


93, The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit persons 
from retaining or selling clothes taken from the bodies of persons who have 
died of smallpox and may cause any such clothes to be destroyed. 


24. No person shall carry & permit to be carried in a public convey: 
ance a patient except in the case where a patient is carried to a hospital 
with the following precautions against spreading the disease, namely :— 


(i) that he is so well covered that the discharge and scabs from the 
lesions do not come directly into touch with the body of the 
conveyance; 


(ii) that he is taken to the 5ر‎ direct and the conveyance does not 
halt at any other place for transacting any business; and 


\iii) that excepting one or two attendants for the patient no other 
person is carried in the conveyance at the same_time. 


25, No person shall expose in any street, shop, bazar or any public 
place any clothing, bedding or other article which has been in contact with 
a patient or shall cause o suffer such articles to be carried in any public 


Part 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 30, 1956 1815 


conveyance, but nothing in this regulation shall apply ما‎ a.person who 
transmits any such article for the purpose of having the same disinfected 
with the followimg precautions ugainst spreading the disease :— 


(i) the article is so well covered with a cloth soaked in strong solution 
of formalin (1 in 400), lysol (1 in 500), 1401 (1 in 500), or of 
saponified cresol (1 in 160), that it does not come directly into 
touch with the body of the conveyance; 


(21) the article 15 taken to the disjnfecting station direct and the con- 
veyance does not halt ut any other place for transacting any 
business: and 


(ili) excepting one attendant for the purpose of taking the infected 
articles to the disinfecting station no other person is carried in 
the conveyance. 


26. Every conveyance in which a patient or a dead body of a person 

.o has died of smallpox or any article that has been in contact with a 
watient is carried shall be disinfected hefore it is used again. The dis- 
ivfection will be effected :— 


(1) in the case of a conveyance carrying a patient to hospital, by the 
authorities of the hospital before such conveyance leaves the 
hospital ; 


(11) in the case of a conveyance carrying any clothing, bedding or 
other articles of a patient to the disinfecting station, by the 
authorities of such station; and 


(iii) in the case of a conveyance carrying a dead body to the burrial- or 
cremation ground, by the owner of the conveyance himself and 
such owner shall effect the disinfection with a strong solution 
of formalin (1 in 400), lysol (1 in 500), izol (1 in 500) or of 
saponified cresol (1 in 160). 


27. No person shall carry or permit to be carried in a public convey- 
ance the dead body of any person who has died of smallpox without the 
previous written permission of the Health Officer, or a Sanitary Inspector 
and without taking the following precautions against spreading the said 
disease :— 


(i) the dead body is so well covered with a cloth soaked in a strong 
solution of formalin (1 in 400), lysol (1 in 600), izol (1 in 500), 
or of saponified cresol (1 in 160) that the discharge and scabs 
from the lesions do not come directly into touch with the body 
of the conveyance; 


(ii) the dead body is taken to the burial or cremation ground direct 
and the conveyance does not halt at any other place for 
transacting any business; and 


(iii) excepting attendants for the dead body no other person is carried 
in the conveyance at the same time. 


28. No person shall, without the written permission of the Health 
Otticer, dispose of any corpse except by burning or burial. 


29. The Health Officer or a Sanitary کر‎ may approve burning 
or burial grounds and may by order direct either generally or specially in 
respect to any specified area, that _corpsea shall not be burned or buried at 
places other than those so approved by him. 


1816 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., JULY 30, 1956 [Part ] 


a te  بسسرج٘‫ومحکموہس امہوسپووسٗججہس‎ 


0. Any person burning or causmg to be burnt any corpse shall cause 
the aame to be completely reduced ہا‎ ashes, and shall likewise cause the 
clolhes or other urticles brought with such corpse to be reduced to ashes. 


3], The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may direct that no 
person shall bury or cause to be buried any corpse, which in the opinion 
01 the Health Officer, is likely to spread smallpox, in a grave not con- 
structed of masonry of less than 6 feet deep. 


de. ‘The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may order, that no 
dome or other servant of the municppality employed for the disposal of 
corpses Shall withdraw from his duties without the permission of the Health 
Uthcer or a Sanitary Inspector unless such dome or other servant of the 
municipality has given notice in writing not less than one month previously 
of his imtention so to withdraw. 


é3. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may through any 1 
son authorised by such officer or inspector in that behalf seize and 9ئ(‎ 
of any corpse which in the opinion of the suid officer or inspector is infected 
with or is likely to spread smallpox, unless the relatives or friends of the 
deceased person satisfy him that they are prepared and able to dispose of 
the corpse in a manner which will prevent the spread of smallpox. 


34. (1) The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may require any 
person who appears to be acquainted with facts in connection with any case 
or suspected case of smallpox to attend before him at a time to be stated 
in the order and at any place not more than one mile from the place where 
such person resides or 1s staying when the order is issued, and such person 
stall appear as so required. 


(2) When the person summoned to appear under paragraph (1) is a 
female who, by the custom of the country, does not appear in public, suit- 
able precaution shall be taken to respect the said custom. 


30. (1) The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may examine orally 
any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances 
of a case or suspected case of smallpox. 


(2) When the person to be examined under paragraph (1) is a female 
who, by the custom of the country, does not appear in public, the office: 
shall take her statement under such conditions as shall admit of due respect 
te-the said custom. 


(3) Such person shall be bound to answer all questions relating to such 
case put to him or her by such officer, other than questions the answers 
to which would have a tendency ما‎ expose him or her to ony criminat 
charge, 


36. The Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may, with such assistant 
(if any), as he thinks fit, enter upon any land or after two hours’ notice 
in writing, into any premises or building used for human habitation at 
any time between sunrise and sunset for the purpose of carrying out any 
measure or making any enquiries authorised by these regulations. 


37. The crew of any inland steam vessel or hont which plies in any 
canal or river and other persons residing on such vessel or boat shall be 
subject to these regulations. 


Parr 1] THI CAL. GAZ. 10111) 101100১1100 1817 


38. (1) All vaccinations under these regulations shall be performed 
gatuitously provided they be done (a) at such public vaccination stations 
as may be opened by the municipality or (b) by house to house visits in the 
vase of such females as are by the custom of the country unuble to attend 
ut public vaccination stations and ure too poor to pay fees. 


(2) Porsons desirous of being vaccinated in their own houses other than 
those specially exempted under sub-regulation (1) shall pay a fee of two 
unnas for each vaccination for which they shall get y printed receipt; 
provided that the total amount of fees payable for any number of opera- 
tions performed in one family ut the same house and at the same time shall 
not exceed annas eight: 


Provided also, the municipal commissioners at a meeting may, by a 
resolution, direct vaccination of persons in their own houses to be carried 
out free of charges. 


39. (1) Orders issued by the Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector 
der these regulations shall be in writing. 


11) The officer issuing such orders shall cause copies of them to be 
ved upon any person named in them. 


(i111) The nearest relative of a patient or the occupier of the house in 
which the patient is staying shall, if a copy of the order under regulation 
10 has been served upon him, give to a Sanitary Inspector or to the Health 
00116] immediate notice of any disobedience of the order by the patient. 


By order of the Governor, 


N. 0. KAR, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, Weat Beayul, 
at Weat Bengal Government Press, Alipore, on the 30th July 956. 


Registered No. C207 No, 33108) 


oat 
১৮) 


3 


7 
= 
-3) 
4 


2 
৪ 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


তক ee و‎ 


MONDAY, JULY 30, 1956 


রি. 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 2847A.R.—S0th July 1956.—The following 
notification by the Secretary to the Governor of 
West Bengal is hereby published for yeneral 
information :— 
“NOTIFICATION 


No. 25268.—28th July 1956.—The Governor 
9 ۶۹ءء),‎ to the West Bengal Bargadars Bill, 
vv, 


P. R. SINHA, 


Secretary to the Governor.”’ 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Be 
at Wess Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, om the 30th July 1056. 


1819 


Registered No. C207 No. 372(!11) 


00 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 30, 1956 


PART IlI—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 1809L.—30th July, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legislature, having 
been assented to by the Governor, 1s hereby published for general information : 


West Bengal Act XIX of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL BARGADARS ACT, 1956. 
[Passed by the West Bengal Leguslature. | 


[Assent of the Governor was first published in the Calcutta Gazetle, 
Extraordsnary, of the 30th July, 1956.) 


An Act to make provisions for awards and orders made before 
ee 22 day of March, 1956, by Bhag Chas Conciliation 
oards. 


Wuereas it is expedient to make provisions for awards 
and orders made before the 3lst day of March, 1956, صا‎ 
hag Chas Conciliation Boards under the ۷۵۹۷ Bengal West Ben. 
Bargadars Act, 1950; og of 
It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows: — 


Short 1. (7) This Act may be called the West Bengal 

title and 19072762275 Act, 1956. 

commence- 

ment. (2) It shall come into torce immediately on the West West Ben, 
Bengal Bargadars Ordinance, 1956, cdasing to operate. er گے ہی‎ 


Provisions 2, (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the West West Ben. 
relating to Henyal Land Reforms Act, 1995, or in any notification issued پاب‎ of 


পিল or thereunder: where, under the West Benga] Bargadars Act, i 


made 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act),— 
eee (a) (5) any appeal or any application for revision, or 
1966. (ii) any application for review before an Appellate 


cer, OF, 
(52) any application for execution of an award or order, 
was pending immediately before the 319৮ day of 
March, 1956, such appeal or application for mvision or 


application for review or appligation for execution 
atl be continued, 


1821 


8828 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, JULY 30, 1956 


eT Ha] 


Savings. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press,” Alipore, on the 30th July, 1986. 


The West Bengal BARGADARS Act, 19.56, 
سن‎ 3.) 


(b) any award or order was made before the’ dst 
day of March, 1966, by a Bhag Chas Concilration 
Board, an appeal shall lie against such award or 

۰ order and such award or order, or an award or 
order on an appeal] therefrom or an award or order 


passed on review may be executed, 


‘as if the said Act and the rules and the notifications issued 

ahd the appointments made thereunder had continued in 
force: 

Provided that in computing the period for filing an appeal, 
the time beginning with the 3lst day of March, 1966, and 
ending with the 30th day after the commencement of the 
West Bengal Bargadars Ordinance, 1956, shall be excluded : 


Provided further that where an order was made by a 
Bhag Chas Conciliation Board before the 9186 day of March, 
1956, terminating the cultivation of any land by a bargadar 
and such order is after that date reversed on appeal or on 
application for review by an Appellate Officer, the bargadar 
may, notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (3) of 
section 12 of the suid Act, apply to such Appellate Officer for 
an order directing immediate restoration to cultivation of the 
land by the Qargudar; no such order shall be made unless 
such Appellate Officer has given the owner of the land and 
any person other than the burgadar, who may have grown 
any crop on the lund an opportunity of being heard and unless 
the baryadar pays such sum or its equivalent in paddy to the 
person who may have grown any crop on the land, as the 
Appellate Officer thinks to be the fair and reasonable cost of 
growing such crop. 


(2) The State Government may, by order published from 
time to time in the Oficul Gazette, provide for the removal 01 
any difficulty that may arise in carrying out the provisions 
of this Act. Such order may provide for the amendment 
or rescission of the rules and the notifications issued includ- 
oe 7 relating to appointments made under the 
said Act. 


3. Anything continued, any order or award made, any 
ee ip execution taken or anything whatsoever 
one under the West Bengal 77477007758 Ordinance, 1956, 
shall upon the said Ordinance ceasing to operate, be deemed 
to have been continued, tuken or done under this Act as if 
this Act had come into force on the 22nd day of June, 1956. 


RG! ER CAEN ہصحصوساردا ت‎ 


By order of the Governor, 


8. K. D. GUPTA, 


Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


[Parr 1 


Registered No. C207 No. 97318) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 30, 1956 


Ut ART 10:95 and Notifications by the Governor ot Went 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 
Education 


NOTIFICATION 


Ne 8018Kdn. /8B-57/54.—30th July 1956.—In 
exereise of the power conferred by section 3 of 
the West Bengal Secondary Kducation (Temporary 
Provisions) Act, 1954 (West Bengal Aot XXII 
of 1954), read with section 9 of the said Act, the 
(tovernor is pleased further to extend the period 
during which the supersession order published by 


1823 


1824 THE CALCUTLA GAZETTE EXTRAUKDINARY, [Parr] 
SULY 30, 1086 
SS یخچخچہہیں‎ ৮ SS a 
notification Nu. . s609Idu:, dated the” 12th May 
1954, under the West Bengal Secondary. ۰ 
lion (Temporary Provisions) Ordinance, 194 
(West Bengal Ordinance 111,901 19549, shall be in 
force, up 1 sist Ootoher ۰ 


By order of the Governor, 
1), M. SEN 
Secy. ۰ا‎ the Govt. of West Bangal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Pty.. West 
Bengal, at Weat Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 30th July 1956. 


Rea.stered No. C207 No. 37401) 


ees) পপ রা 
Calrutia JAN ®azetiv =} 
৬১০৪৩ ৮. ws 

এ ক্রি‏ ور ہج 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, JULY 30, 1956 


PART 4—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Wes! 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.—No. 13482L.A.—30th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judt.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by 
the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed, for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, 
for the Durgapur Steel Project in the 
village of Waria, jurisdiction list No. 64, 
idhana Faridpur, pargana  Shergarh, district 
Rurdwan, it is hereby notified that two pieces 
of Jand in Block “EK” comprising cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 1, 6 to 16, 758 to 760, 762 to 788, 
790 to 806, 810 to 814, 819 to 825, 829, 8:0, 
837 10 845, 943 to 946, 957, 958, 998 and parts 
of eadastral survey plot Nos. 2 to 5, 18, 20, 56 
to 7h7, 761, 789, 807 to 809, 815, 818, 86, 
২১৪, 831, 834 to 836, 846 and 847 and measuring, 


1825 


1880 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [9৬৮ I 
JULY 30, 6 


سے سے سس سے پمسہوےسمسم سے یں سسمپژیلوسسمدحسپسپچٗےہ a‏ 


more or less, 78.76 acres, are likely to be netted 
for the aforesaid public purpose at the public 
expense within the aforesaid village of Waria. 


This nottfication is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land -Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom ‘t mav 
concern, 


A plan of the land muy be inspected mn the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Purdwan, as well as in that of the Adminis¢tator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conterred bythe said 
section read with the said notification the (ov- 
ernor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and swr¥ey 
the land and do all other acta required or per- 
mitted by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the whove 
Jand as is not waste or arable, who has any ubjec- 
fion to the acquisition thereof, may, within thity 
days after the date on which public notice of the 
substunce of this notification is given in the 
locality, file on objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred hy section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIT1 of 1928 and fend 
with the aforesaid notification, the Goveraor is 
pleased to direct that the provisions of section 5A 
of the Act shall not apply to the waste or arable 
portions of the land in this case. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, 
Dy, Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


১১০০০৬০3৯৫০ উস উনি as Tc ec rita EE 
Pruated and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 30th July 1056. 


Registered No. C207 No. 375; 1) 


1 
I 


Caleutta ج۸۸۷(‎ Gazette - 


wir 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, JULY 31, 1956 


PART JI—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Weer 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


Constitution and Elections 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 2370A.R.—3lst July 1956.—The following 
notification by the Secretary to the Governor of 
West Bengal is hereby published for general 
information :— 

“NOTIFICATION 


No. 26398.—30th July 1956.—The Governor 
bas assented to the West Bengal Taxes on Entrv 
of Goods in Local Areas (Amendment) Bill, 1956. 


P. R. SINHA, 


Secretary to the Governor.”’ 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


টি ৯৯৯৫ 
binted and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Preas, Alipore, on the 2186 July 1956. 


1827 


٢ egistered No. C207 


02 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


চা 


TUESDAY, JULY 31, 1986 


PART IlI—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 
Legislative Department 
NOTIFICATION 


)11( 376 .ملا 


No. 1816L.—slst July, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legislature, having been 


assented to by the Governor, is hereby published for general information :— 


West Bengal Act XX of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL TAXES ON ENTRY OF COODS IN 
LOCAL AREAS (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956. 


[Passed by the West Bengal Legislature. | 


[ Assent of the Governor was firat published in the Caleutta Gazette, 7۰ل‎ 
ordinary, of the 3lst July, 1956.) 


An Act to amend the West Benyal Tazes on Entry of Goods 
in Local Areas Act, 1965. 


WHEREAS it 1s expedient to amend the West Bengal 
Taxes on Entry of Goods in Local Areas Act, 1965 for the 
purposes and in the manner hereinafter appearing; 

It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows: — 


Weat Ben. 
Act XXVI 
of 1955. 


Short title 1. (1) This Act may be called the West Bengal Taxes 
পিক on Entry of Goods in Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 1956. 
(2) It shall come into force immediately on the West West Ben 
Bengal Taxes on Entry of Goods in Local Areas (Amend- tt as 
ment) Ordinance, 1956, ceasing to operate. ; 
Amend- 2. In the Explanation to the Schedule to the West 
ment of Bengal Taxea on Kntry 01 Goods in Local Areas Act, 1955, 
নিলা for the words “In this schedule, in culculating the weight, 
West Ben, the weight of packing materials and containers shall be 
Act XXVI included”, the following words shail be substituted, 
of 1965. namely — 
“For purposes of this Schedule, where guvods are con- 
,tained in packing materials or containers, there 
shall be deducted such weight us may be 
prescribed, on account of the packing materials or 
containers, frum the gross weight of the ,oods”. 
Continu- 3. Any action taken, anything whatsoever done under 
ance. the West Bengal Taxes on Entry of Goods in Local Areas پ6‎ 


Act, 1986 as amended by the West Bengal Taxes on Entry 
of Goods in 14008] Areas (Amendment) Ordinance, 1956, 
shall be deemed to have been taken or done under the said 
Act as amended by this Act as if this Act had come into 
force on the 218٦ day of April, 1956. 


of 1955. 


Weat Ben. 
Ord. IT of 
1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. K. D. GUPTA, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printad and published ×ط‎ the Superintendent, Government Printing, 
at West lieugal Go¥ernment Press, Alipore on the 3186 July, | 


1829 


West Bengat, 
956. 


Registered No. C207 


Calrutta 


Nor 3771) 


6 hee tte 
০৮০ 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL. 
Finance Department. 
Taxation. 
NOTIFICATIONS. 

No. 1658-F.T. 


Calcutta, the Ist August 1956. 


WueEreas the Governor is of opinion that it 
would be in the public interest that the commodi- 
ties mentioned below, being commodities liable to 
taxution under the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), should be taxed 
under the West Bengal Sales Tax Act, 1954 (West 
Bengal Act IV of 1954); 


Now, THEREFORE, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by section 25 of the West Bengal Sales 
Tax Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act IV of 1954), the 
Governor is pleased hereby to specify such com- 
modities under that section— 


The commodities referred to above: 


(1) ‘“Drug’’ as defined in clause (b) of section 
3 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 
1940). 


(2) ‘Patent or proprietary medicine’ as defined 
in clause (d) of section 3 of the Drugs Act, 
1940 (XXITI of 1940). 


(3) “Surgical dressing’’ which expression shall 
include gauze, lint, and cotton wool, which 
have been sterilised and conform to the 
accepted standards of the medical profes- 
sion, 


আজও‏ مدوججپود ےد 


No. 1659-F.T. 


Calcutta, the Ist August 1966. 


In exercise of the power conferred by clause (6) 
of sub-rule (z) of rule 14 of the West Bengal Sales 
Tax Rules, 1954, the Governor is pleased to specify 
a quantity worth Rs.50 as the quantity for the 
purposes of the said clause in the case of the follow- 
ing commodities, namely :— 


(1) ‘‘Drug’’ as defined in clause (0) of, section 
ا‎ Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 
0). 


(2) ‘Patent or proprietary medicine’’ as defined 
in clause (d) of section 3 of the Drugs Act, 
1940 (XXIIT of 1940). 


(3) ‘Surgical dressing’? which expression shall 
include gauze, lint, and,cotton wool, which 
have been sterilised and conform to the 
accepted standards of the medical profes- 
sion, 


By order of the Governor, 


B. DAS GUPTA, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed “and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing West Bengal, 
* at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore, on*the lst August 195৫. 


183] 


Registered Ne. C207 


Calrittta 


No. 378(!). 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST I, 1956. 


ے ee‏ تصسص-س سجچج-ژجہچج ‏ پچ eee‏ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Political 


ORDER 


No. 3843P.—3lst July 1956.—Whereas the 
Governor considers it necessary and expedient in 
the public interest that special precautions should 
be taken to prevent the ent of unauthorised 
persons into the places described in the schedule 
below, hereinafter referred to as the said places; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the pow rs 
conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 6 
of the West Bengal Security Act, 1950 (West 
Bengal Act XIX of 1950), the Governor is 
pleased hereby— 


(a) to declare each of the said places to be a 
protected place, and 


(b) to authorise each of the following persons. 
that is to say,— 


(1) General Manager, Calcutta Telephones, 


(it) Deputy General Manager, Calcutta Tvle- 
phone District, 


(222) Superintending Engineer, Calcutta Tele- 
phone District, 


(iv) Deputy General Manager, Calcutta 
Automatisation, 
(v) Assistant General Manager, Calcutta 


Telephone District, 


(৮2) Personal Assistant (Engineering), Cal- 
cutta Telephone District, 


(vii) Persona] Assistant (Engineering), Cal- 
cutta Automatisation, 
(viii) Divisional Engineer, Telegraphs, Cal- 
cutta Automatisation, 
(iz) Executive Engineers, Calcutta Tele- 
phone District, 


to grant the permission referred to in sub-section 
(2) of the said section in respect of any one or 
more of the said places. 


1833 


1834 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST I, 1956 [Part I 
পু পু 
The Schedule 


Names of the places. Particulars of the pluces with their boundanies. 


1. “55° Baghbazar Exchange, 33-J Raja Naba North—Old Mayor’s Court Road, 
Krishna Street, Calcutta. South—Piemisey Nos. 43215, 84K, 338F and 332, 
Raja Naba Kissen Street, 
Kast—Commion passage. 
West—Comimon passage. 


(Within Ward No. 1 of Calcutta.) 


3 


East Exchange, 58 Raja Dinendra Street, North—Premises Nos. 58/1/A und 58/1/B, Raja‏ ”ق۹5“ 
Calcutta. Pinendra Street.‏ 
South—Harinath De Road.‏ 
premises No. Block A,‏ 7ت East—New (.I.T.‏ 
containing suite Nos. 1 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 19 and‏ 
and suite Nos. 3, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15 and‏ 14 
(two-buildings) and nie old C.1.T. barrack‏ 16 
at 10-C ‘Ward Institute.‏ 
West—Raja Dinendra Street.‏ 


(Within Ward No. 4 of Calcutta.) 
3.7 9662 Ovsstpore Exchange, 68178 Barrackpore North—Public Drain. 
Trunk Road, Calcutta. South—Nilmoney De Street. 
East—Calcutta Corporation Staff Quarters at 58/8 


Barrackpore Trunk Road. 
(West—Barrackpore Trunk Road. 


(Within Ward No. 31 of Calcutta.) 
4. -“47? Kalighat Exchange, 47 Ramesh Mitra North—Bakul Bagan Road. 


Road, Calcutta. South—Ramesh Mhtra Road. 
Fast—Piemises Nos. 55 and 57, Ramesh Mitra 


Road. 
West—Bakul Hagen Road. 
(Within Ward No, 22 of Calcutta.) 


Ezplanation.—In this schedule “Calceutta’? and “Ward’’ have the same meaning as in the 
Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act XXXIITI of 1961). 


By order of the Governor, 


8. DUTT-MAZUMDAR, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and سج‎ by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the Ist August, 1956. 


Registered No. C207 No. 97901). 


Calrutta ۱ Gazette 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
Department of Health 


Public Health 


NOTIFICATION 
Bankura.—No. P.II./2802/2R-38/56.—30th July 1956.—Whereas the 


Governor ia satisfted that the district of Bankura is threatened with an 
outbreak of cholera; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by section 2 of the 
Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (III of 1897), the Governor is pleased to 
prescribe the following temporary regulations for the prevention and control 
of cholera, and for the medical inspection, isolation, observation and 
surveillance of persons suffering from, or suspected of being infected with, 
cholera in the said district for a period of three months سے‎ 


TEMPORARY REGULATIONS FOR THE PREVENTION AND 
CONTROL OF CHOLERA. 


1. In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the 
subject or context— 


(a) ‘‘District Health Officer” means the Health Officer of the district 
appointed by the district board under sub-section 5 of section 91 
of the ‘va Local Self-Government Act of 1885 (Bengal Act ITI 
of 1885); 


(b) ‘‘Sanitary Inspector’? means a Sanitary Inspector appointed by the 
district board under sub-section (3) of section 91 of the Bengal 
Loca] Self-Government Act of 1885: 


(c) ‘‘Board’”’ means a district board constituted under the Bengal Local 
Self-Government Act of 1880; 


1835 


1836 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Parr I 

পি সা স্্পেেিইরিি টি স 

(৫) “Union Board’? means a union board constituted under the Bengal 
Villuge Self-Government Act, 1919 (Bengal Act V of 1919); 


(e) “Suspected cholera’? means any disease accompanied by vomiting 
and diarrhoea ; 


(/) “Patient” means a person suffering from or suspected to be suffering 
from cholera; 


(g) ‘‘Medical practitioner” means any person practising the medical 
profession. 


2. Whenever any land is held jointly by two or more persons, whether 
as owners or occupiers of that land, such persons shall be held jointly and 
severally liable for carrying out any measure ordered in u notice under 
these regulations, and the names of any one or more of such joint-holders 
may be entered upon such notice at the discretion of the District Health 
Officer and the District Health Officer shal] not be bound to enter the 8 
of all the joint-holders in the notice. 


Notices. 


3. If in any case the District Health Officer considers that the issue of 
a notice under these resrulations is likely ما‎ lead to such an amount of delay 
as might facilitate the spread of cholera he may forthwith take such step as 
he may think fit for carrying out the work, and shall thereafter, as soon as 
possible, issue a notice on the person concerned stating the reason why such 
work has been carried out. 


4. If any measure which the District Health Officer has, by a notice 
issued under these regulations, required to be carried out, be not carried 
out to his satisfaction within the time stated in the notice, the District 
Health Officer shall be entitled to carry out the measure. 


Costs and compensation. 


6. (1) All expenses incurred in carrying out any work in pursuance of 
any order issued under these regulations shall be paid by the board except 
in any case where the order directs a person to carry out any work in 
relation to property in his possession, in which case the expenses shall be 


paid by that person: 


Provided that where the conditions, which led the District Health 
Officer to pass auch an order, are not attributable to any act or default of 
the persons in possession of the property, the board may pay to such person 
the-whole or a part of the expenses incurred by him in carrying out the 
order. 


(2) The board may recover all expenses incurred by the District Health 
officer in carrying out the measure under regulation 4 from the person or 
persons to whom the notice was originally issued. 


6. The Board shall pay adequate compensation to any person who has 
sustained substantial loss or damage by reason of anything done under these 
regulations : 


Provided that no person shall receive any compensation for anything 
done, or suffered under these regulations, if he has failed to carry out an 
order issued under these regulations within the time specified in the order 
and to the satisfaction of the District Health Officer. 


1১12 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1837 
Se ee .سس سے سس6 6حمصحمجحمجمچپک سپ سس سس ِء‎ 
Location of disease. 


7. When a case of cholera or suspected cholera occurs in a house, the 
nearest male relative in attendance upon the patient, or in the absence of 
any such relative the occupier of the house, or if the occupier be the patient, 
some male inmate of the house shall, within twenty-four hours of the onset 
of the disease, give information regarding the occurrence of such case 
either personally or in writing or by means of chaukidar or other village 
watchman to the nearest Sanitary Inspector. 


8. (1) If information 1198 not already been given under regulation 7, 
the medical practitioner called in to attend upon any case of cholera shall 
forthwith give notice of the case by special messenger ما‎ the nearest 
Sanitary Inspector or rural লি? officer and by post to the District 
Health Officer and the cost of such messenger in each case shall be 
defrayed by the board. 


(2) The Doctor-in-charge of a hospital or a dispensary within the district 
sha]l forthwith give notice of any case of cholera brought to such hospital 
or dispensary for treatment to the nearest Sanitary Inspector by a specinl 
messenger and to the District Health Officer by post and the cost of sach 
messenger in each case shall be defrayed by the board. 


9, Presidents of union boards in union board areas and thana officers in 
non-union board areas shall supply to the District Health Officer such 
periodical returns of cases of cholera as he may from time to time call 
upon them to furnish. 


10. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may examine 
any person who is, or suspected to be, suffering from cholera or who, in his 
opinion, may be infected with or likely to spread cholera. 


Isolation of patients and evacuation of houses, etc. 


11. When the District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector considers 
that the isolation of any patient is a precaution necessary for the protection 
of the neighbouring population, he shall order the patient to observe 
isolation and may order the nearest relative in attendance on the patient, or 
the occupier of the house in which the patient is staying to arrange for the 
isolation of the patient in such a manner and for such a time as may be 
upproved by the District Health Officer or the Sanitary Inspector. 


He shall not direct the patient to be removed from the house unless it is 
in his opinion impossible to make proper arrangements for his isolation 
therein. 

12. The District Health Officer or a وت‎ Inspector may order that 
any person, who has in his opinion been exposed to infection from cholera, 
shall take such drugs in such quantities as may be specified by the District 
Health Officer, or Sanitary Inspector or shall submit himself to anti- 
cholera inoculation within a time to be specified in the order. 


13. No person shall enter any place wherein a patient is isolated under 
revulation 1] without the permission of the District Health.Officer or a 


Sanitary Inspector. 

14. The board shall provide free of charge suitable places, with neces- 
enrv attendance, medicine, diet and other necessaries for persons isolated 
under regulation 11: provided that a private individual may provide places 
certified by the District ILealth Officer as being fit for the purpose of such 


isolation. 


1838 THE CAL. GAZ, FXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Part I 
সম 


15. If it is not possible for the board to provide suitable places with 
necessary attendants, diet and other necessaries for isolation ot the patient 
or if satisfactory arrangement ior such isolation is not also possible in the 
house where the patient is staying, the patient shall be sent, under proper 
sanitary precautions, to the nearest hospital where there is suitable arrange- 
ment for isolation. 


16. No person, who is or has been su‘tering frum cholera, shall leave 
the place where he has been staying until he has received from the District 
Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector written permission to do so. 


17. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary 11787060601 may require 
any person to allow to be carried out by such agency, and within such 
time as may be specified in the order, such measures for the disinfection 
or evacuation of any premises in the occupation of such person or for the 
disinfection or destruction of any of his personal effects, as the said officer or 
inspector may consider necessary. 


18. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may direct the 
owner or occupier of any premises to cause to be inoculated with anti- 
cholern vaccine within a time specified in the order any person residing on 
such premises and under the control of such owner or occupier if the 
District Health Officer or Sanitary Inspector is of opinion that such person 
has been exposed to infection from ee 


19, The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may forbid eny 
person who has been a patient or who has, to his knowledge, been in contact 
with a patient to act as vendor of any article for such period us may be 
specified in the order. 


20. No person shall carry or permit to be carried in a public conveyance 
a patient except in the case where a patient is carried with proper 
precautions to a hospital. 


21. No person shall sell any article which has been in contact with a 
শা until it has been disinfected to the satisfaction of the District 
ealth Officer or a Sanitary Inspector. 


22. No person shall expose in any street, shop, bazar, or any public 
place any clothing, bedding or other article which has been in contact with 
a patient or ar cause or suffer such articles to be carried in any public 
conveyance but nothing in this regulation shall apply to a person who 
transmits with proper precautions against spreading the disease any such 
article for the purpose of having the same disinfected. 


23. No person shall carry or permit to be carried in a public con- 
veyance the dead body of any person who has died of cholera without the 
previous written permission of the District Health Officer or Sanitary 
Inspector and without taking proper precautions against spreading the said 
disease. 


Water-supply. 


24. (1) When the District Health Officer or o Sanitary Inspector is of 
opinion that the water in any well, tank, pool or other possible source of 
water-supply is contaminated or is likely to be contaminated, he may at 
once take such steps as he deems necessary to close such well, tank, pool or 
other source of water-supply, or may require the owner or occupier of land 
upon which such well, tank, pool or other source of water-supply_is situated, 
to take steps to close the same to the satisfaction of the District Health 
Officer or the Sanitary Inspector, as the case may be, within such time as 
may be specified in the order, 


Paxt 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1839 


(2) The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may require such 
owner or occupier to keep closed during such a period as shall be specified 
in the order any well, tank, pool or other sources of water-supply closed 
under paragraph (1) of this regulation. 


Explanation.—In this regulation, ‘‘to close’ includes the placing of 
22٤ to prevent access to the well, tank, pool or other source of water- 
supply. 


26. When the District Tealth Officer or a Sanitary Inspector is of 
opinion that the water in well, tank, pool or source of water-supply 
is contaminated he may disinfect it or order its owner or occupier to 
disinfect it with such disinfectants as he may specify in such quantities and 
at such times as he may think fit. 


26. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit 
persons from entering into or using for drinking, bathing, or any other 
purpose, during such period as may be specified in the order, the water in 
any well, tank, pool or other possible source of water-supply, which, in his 
opinion, ig contaminated or likely to be contaminated. 


27. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may, by an 
order published at such places as he may think fit, set apart any well, tank, 
part of a river, stream or channel not being private property, or being 
private property with the consent of the owner, for the supply of water 
for drinking or culinary purposes and may prohibit therein or within a 
distance therefrom to be stated in the order all bathing, washing of 
clothes or animals, or other acts calculated to pollute the water; and may 
similarly set apart any well, tank, part of a river, stream or channel] for the 
purpose of bathing or for the purpose of washing animals or clothes or for 
any other purpose connected with the health and cleanliness of the people 
using such water-supply. 


28. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit 
persons from easing themselves, or throwing, depositing or discharging any 
rubbish, sewage, or offensive matter, into any well, tank, pool or other 
source of water-supply, which is used by the public, or within such a 
distance from such well, tank, pool or source of water-supply as he 
may fix. 


Conservancy and sewage disposal, 


29, The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may (1) prohibit 
the committal or continuance of any nuisance, or (2) require the person 
causing any nuisance or the person occupying the premises on which any 
nuisance exists to remove such nuisance. 


Ezplanation.—In this regulation ‘‘nuisance’’ means anything which سد‎ 
the opinion of the District Health Officer or Sanitary Inspector 1s likely to 
spread or to cause the outbreak of cholera. 


1840 THK CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Pant I 


30. Whenever the District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector is 
satisfied that the condition of any privy, urinal, drain, sewer or 06880! 
is such as to cause risk of spreading cholera to the inhabitants of the 
neighbourhood he may order the occupier of the land in which such privy, 
urinal, drain, sewer or cesspool is situated to disinfect, or to allow an 
officer of the Board to disinfect, the same with such disinfectants in such 
quantities and at such time as the said officer or inspector shall think fit. 


31. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may for the 
prevention of the outbreak or spread of cholera, order the owner oF 
occupier of any land to repair or make efficient to the satisfaction of that 
officer or inspector any drain, sewer, privy, urinal or cesspool] which is 
situated upon such land * or to remove any such drain, sewer, privy, oF 
urinal or close any such cesspool within such time as may be fixed by the 
said officer or inspector. 


Miscellaneous. 


32. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may during the 
prevalence of any outbreak of cholera order that any market, shop or other 
public place shall remain closed for such time as may appear to him to be 
necessary and may forbid the holding of any fair, mela, or other gathering 
to which people from several villages commonly or periodically resort. 


33. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may require the 
owner or occupier of any land to clear and remove within the period specified 
in the order, any vegetation upon such land the existence of which in the 
opinion of the said officer or inspector conduces to the committing of 
nuisances upon such land, 


34. The District Health Officer or o Sanitary Inspector may issue 
general orders that by a specified date certain sanitary precautions of a 
simple nature such as, lime-washing of houses, clearing of Jatrines or the 
removal of filth or rubbish shall be carried out to his satisfaction. 


35. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may prohibit 
persons from retaining or selling clothes taken from the bodies of persons 
who have died of cholera and may cause any such clothes to be destroyed. 


36. No person shall, without the written permission of the District 
Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector, dispose of any corpse except hy 
burning or burial. 


87 The District Health Officer may approve burning or burial grounds, 
and may by order direct either aire ag or specially in respect to any 
specified area, that corpses shall not be burned or buried at places other 


than those so approved by him. 


38, Any person burning or causing to be burnt any corpse shall cause 
the same to be completely reduced to ashes, and shall likewise cause the 
clothes or other articles brought with such corpse to be reduced to ashes. 


39. The District Health Officer may direct that no person shall bury or 
cause to be buried any corpse which, in the opinion of the District Health 
Officer, is likely to spread cholera in a grave not constructed of masonry 
and less than six feet deep. 


Part 1] THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1841 


আবাল 


০০০ اجما‎ 7 প্র ہوا چوس و‎ ০৭ ২৩ এজন. مجوواکسیےٹے‎ pea (উর এলি ہہت سے‎ Sar আত পা ہے 0 ےد‎ ie 


* 

40. The District Tealth Officer may order that no dome or other servant 
of the board employed for the disposal of corpse shall withdraw fiom hia 
duties without the permission of the District Health Officer unless such 
dome or other servant of the board has given notice 11) writing not 1985 
than one month previously of his intention so to withdraw. 


41. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may through 
any person authorised by such officer or inspector in that behalt seize aud 
dispose of any corpse, which, in the opinion of the said officer or inspector, 
is Infected with or 19 likely to spread cholera, unless the relatives or friends 
of the deceased person satisfy him that they are prepared and able to dispose 
of the corpse in a manner which will prevent the spread of cholera. 


42, (1) The District Health Officer or Sanitary Inspector may require 
any person who appears to be acquainted with facts in connection with any 
case of cholera or suspected cholera to attend before him at u time to be 
stated in the order and at any place not more than one mile from the place 
where such person resides or is staying when the order is issued, and such 
person shall appear as so required. 


(2) When the سی‎ summoned to appear under paragraph (1) is a 
female, who, by the custom of the country, does not appear in public 
suitable precaution shall be taken to respect the said custom. 


43. (1) The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may 
examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted with the facts 
and circumstances of a case of cholera or suspected cholera. 


(2) When the person to be examined under paragraph (1) is a female 
who, by the custom of the country, does not appear in public, the officer shall 
take her statemont under such conditions as shall না of due respect t» 
the said custom. 


(3) Such person shall be bound to answer all questions relating to such 
case put to him or her by such officer, other than questions the answers to 
which would have a tendency to expose him or her to any criminal charge. 


44. The District Health Officer or a Sanitary Inspector may, with such 
assistants (if any), us he thinks fit, enter upon any land, or after two houra’ 
notice in writing, into any premises or buildings used for human habitation 
at any time between sunrise and sunset for the purpose of carrying out any 
measure of making any enquiries authorised by these regulations. 


45. The crew of any inland steam vessel or boat which plies in any 
canal or river or other persons residing on such vessel or boat shall be 


subject to these regulations. 


46. All inoculations under these regulations shall be performed 
gratuitously. 


1848 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Parr f 
০২ پوےوسٌسہوسعوسوسسسیسےیذر.ےے.-نس..-و۔ےبمسیچ3ووب‎ 


47, (1) Orders issued by the District Health Officer or a Sanitary 
Inspector under these regulations shall be in writing. 


(8৫) The offiter issuing such orders shall cause copies of them to be 
served upon ahy persons named in them. 


(iu) The nearest relative of a patient or the dccupier of the house in 
which the patient is staying shall, if a copy of the order under regulation 
I] has been served upon him, give to the nearest Sanitary Inspector or to 
his office, immediate notice of any disobedience of the order by the patient. 


By order of the Governor, 


N. C. KAR, 
Dy Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


এ রি 45 
Priuted and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the Ist August 1956, 


Published by Authority 


9 iy ‘ ’ ۸ 0 


১৮০15 ie ৬৯০ ہج ےر‎ IE AE RL مد رر‎ 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1956. 


৯০৯০: بد‎ পাপা লাগা سد لیا‎ REEL ye আচ সিসি এ পাপী MeL I ERENT ENE می‎ ৭1 পা ندم طید۔ مدکی‎ 


Treasury, ete. 4 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


7 


EPARTMENT OF LAND 910 LAND Burdwan,—No. 136001. হী ৬ 
REVENUE | | Whereas the functions of the Oentr 
: ات‎ “erg 5078 a et : 
৪ 0 in relation to the acquisition of | 
Land Acquisition poses of the Vite کڈ‎ : 
IC a overnment by noti 
"۷۳۰ ٣۷۷۷پی‎ 14th ay | 


- 24-Parganas.—No. 13546L.A.—lst August 1956. Government of রা 
—Wihereas it appears to the Governor that land is Affairs under clause 
like to. be needed for a public purpose, not being Constitution of India; : 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the construc- 17 | 
tion of buildings for expansion of educational, And whereas it appears ٠ the 
culjmral and other welfare activities of the . is likely to be needed for a pu 
Ramkrishna Mission in the village of Ukhilapaik- a purpose of the Union, namely 
para, jurisdiction list No. 56, fi Sonarpur, Steel Project in the village of B 
Pargana Maidanmal, district 24-Par anas, it is tion list No, 68, thana  Fari 
hereby notified ০, piece of land comprising Shergarh, district. Burdwan, it is 
“ty lot Nos, 287-311, 363, 364, 366-385, 630- that apiece of land in Block ۳ 
7 "641-643, 1092 and 1119 and portion of cadastral survey plot Nos. 7 to 839 
tadastral survey plot Nos. 312-316, 361, 362, 365 1877 to 1881, 1955, 208% to 2086 
and 644, and measuring, more or less, 15.31 acres, 2759, 2761, 2773 to. 2814 and . 
aah ig likely to be needed for the aforesaid public pur- Survey plot No. 786, and n 
pose at the expense of the Ramkrishna iain 919, 21 acres, is likely to 
ith iggy he aforesaid village of Ukhilapaikpara; . said public purpose at th 


; : the at 
Th 8 notification | is made, under the provisions 1 7 
section feof Act 1 91 1894, to all whom it may ৭: is | - | 2 


‘may be inspected in 0 می‎ 
টিনার «Off per, Alipore, 


me plan 2 the land may 0 &. ۱ 
of the Special Land Acquisition 
a8 teal Pr ۲ اس اہ‎ the 


en 


We 


۹ 1 1S yh x : ‘a ٦ : ae 4 | 
৮০ و‎ 7097 মা 


“survey plot Nos. 2210. 
ng, more or jess, 
to be needed for the © 


 the.expense of the 
within the aforesaid — 


0 : 
ৰা 7 | ۸ 


চা ডা.‏ سام 
it bole টন tion is made, under the ;‏ ৃ سا a‏ 5 ۱ 

of the Land Acquisition Act,‏ 6 0 ۰ء" 
Sipe with the said eben, 0‏ ۰ 


1 


0 ۱ 


i an Special tank 8০২ 


well as in that ne Actin 7‏ مو 


a‏ 5 ا 
ee‏ 


8 


2 


Registered No. C207 No. 381(V1) 


PART 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1956 


VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of India; Reports of Select 


Committees presented to Parliament; and Bills published before 
introduction in Parliament. 


8 of 1950, 


LOK SABHA 


The following Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 
18৮1 April 1966 :— 


*Bitt No. 90 oF 1956 


a Bill to provide for the reorgamsation of the States of India 
and for matters connected therewith, 


BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows : 


PART I 
PRELIMINARY 


1, This Act may be called the States Reorganisation Short title. 
Act, 1956. 


2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— Dofini. 
(৫) “appointed day” means the Ist day of October, "°™* 
1956 ; 


(b) “article’’ means ax article of the Constitution ; 


(c) ‘‘assembly constituency”, “‘council constituency’? and 


‘‘parliamentary constituency” have the same 
meaning as in the Representation of the People 
Act, 1950; 


*The President has, in pursuance of article 3 and olauses (1) and (3) of 
article 117 of the Constitution of India, recommended to Lok Sabha the 
introduction and consideraticn of the Bill. The Bill was published in the 
Gazette, dated the 18th April, 1956. 


1846 


1846 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY. AUG. 1, 1956 [Part VI 


TR TT ০০ সা সস 


7 


(d) ‘‘cgrresponding new State” means, in relation to the 
existing State of Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, 
Punjab or Rajasthan, the new State with the 
same uame, and in relation to the existing State 
of Travancore-Cochin, the new State of herala,; 


(৫) “corresponding State” means, in relation to the new 
State of Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, Punjab or 
Rajasthan, the existing State with the same name, 
in. relation to the new States of Gujarat or 
Maharashtra, the existing State of Bombay, and 
in relation to the new State of Kerala, the exist- 
ing State of Travancore-Cocliin ; 


(f) “Election Commission’? means the Election Commis- 
sion appointed by the President under article 
ঃ 
(7) ‘existing State’ means a State specified in the First 
Schedule to the Constitution at the commence- 
ment of this Act; 


(h) “Jaw” includes any enactment, ordinance, regula- 
tion, order, bye-law, rule, scheme, notification or 
other instrument having the force of law in the 
whole or in any part of the territory of India; 


(৫) ‘new State’? means a State formed by the provisions 
of Part IT; 


(j) “notified order’? means an order published in the 
Official Gazette; 


(k) “population ratio”, in relation to the successor 
States of an existing State means such ratio ۹ 
the Central Government may hy notified order 
specify to be the ratio in which the population of 
that existing State as ascertained at the last 
census is distributed territorially among the 
several successor States by virtue of the provisions 


of Part II; 


(1) “prescribed’’? means prescribed by rules made under 
this Act; 


(m) ‘‘principal successor State’’ means— 


(i) in relation to the existing State of Madhya 
Pradesh, Madras or Rajasthan, the State with 
the same name; and 


(12) in relation to the existing States of Bombay, 
Hyderabad, Madhya Bharat and Travancore- 
Cochin, the States of Maharashtra, Andhra- 
Telangana, Madhya Pradesh and _ Kerala, 
respectively: 


(n) “৪1007 member” in relation to either House of 
Parliument or of the Legislature of a State means 
a person who immediately before the appointed 
day is a member of that House; 


(o) “successor State’, in relation to an existing State, 
means any State to which the whole or any part 


Pant VT] THK CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


of the territories of that existing State is trans- 
ferred by the provisions of Part II, and 
includes— 


(1) 1) relation to the দালান) State of Madras, alsn 
that State as territorially altered by the said 
provisions; and 


(77) in relation to the existing State of Bombay or 
Madras a part of whose territories becomes a 
Union territory, also the Union; 


(p) “transferred territory’? means any territory trans- 
ferred from an existing State to another existing 
State or to a new State by the provisions of Part 


(q) ‘“‘treasury’’ includes a sub-treasury; and 


(7) any reference to o district, tuluk, tehsil or other 
territorial division of a Stute shall be construed 
as a reference to the area comprised within that 
territorial division on the Ist day of March, 1956. 


PART II 
TERRITORIAL CHANGES AND FORMATION OF NEW STATES 


3. (1) As from the appointed day, there shall be added 
to the State of Andhra the territories comprised in— 
(6) the districts of Hyderabad, Medak, Nizamabad, 
Adilabad, Karimnagar, Warangal, Khammam, 
Nalgonda and Mahbubnagar; 


(6) Alampur and Gadwal taluks of Ruichur district; 


(c) oe and Tandur taluks of Gulbarga district; 
an 


(৫) Narayankhed and Zahirabad taluks of Bidar district; 


and thereujon the said territories shall cease to form part 
of the existing State of Hyderabad and the State of Andhra 
shall be known as the State of Andhra-Telangana. 


(4) The territories referred to in clauses (6) and (c) of 
sub-section (7) shall be included in, and become part of, 
Mahbubnagar district and the territories referred to in clause 
(৫) of sub-section (7) shall be included in, and become part 
of, Medak district, in the State of Andhra-Telangana. 


4. As from the appointed day, there shall be added to 
the State of Madras the territories comprised 01) the 
Agastheeswaram, Thovala, Kalkulam and Vilavancode taluks 
of Trivandrum district and the Shencottah taluk (excluding 
Puliyara Hall pakuthy) of Quilon district; and thereupon 
the said territories— 

(a) shall cease to form part of the existing State of 
Travancore-Cochin, and 


(/)) shall be included in, and become part of, Tirunelveli 
district in the State of Madras. 


Transfer of 


Hyderabad 
to Andhra 
and ualtera- 
tion of 
name. 


1848 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Part VI 


Formation 5, (/) As from the appointed day, there shall be formed 
শি a new State to be known us the State of Kerala comprising 
the following territories, namely :— 


(a) the territories of the existing State of Travancore- 
Cochin, excluding the territories transferred to 
the State of Madras by section 4; and 


(b) the territories comprised in— 


(১ Malabar district, excluding the islands of Lacca- 
dive and Minicoy, and 

(it) Kasaragod taluk of South Kanara district; and 
thereupon the said territories shall cease to 
form part of the States of Travancore-Cochin 
and Sade respectively. 


(4) The territories specified in clause (4) of sub-section 
(4) shall form a separate district to be known as Malabar 
district in the State of Kerala. 


Lacoadive, 6. As from the appointed day, the Laccadive Minicoy 
me and Amindivi Islands shall cease to form part of the State of 
Amindivi Madras and shall become a Union territory. 

Islands. 


Formation 7. (4) As from the appointed day, there shall be formed 
পা a new State to be known aos the State of Mysore comprising 
State. the following territories, namely :— 


(a) the territories of the existing State of Mysore: 


(9) Belgaum district except Chandgad taluka and Bija- 
yur, Dharwar and Kanara districts, in the exist- 
ing State of Bombay ; 


(c) Gulbarga district except Kodangal and Tandur 
taluks, Raichur district except Alampur and 
Gadwal taluks, and Bidar, Bhalki, Humnabad 
and Santpur (Aurad) taluks of Bidar district, in 
the existing State of Hyderabad; 


(2) South Kanara district except Kasaragod taluk and 
Amindivi Islands, and Kollegal taluk of Coimba- 
tore district, in the State of Madras; and 


(6) the territories of the existing State of Coorg; 


and thereupon the said territories shall cease to form part of 
the said existing States of Mysore, Bombay, Hyderabad, 
Madras and Coorg, respectively. 


(2) The territories comprised in the existing State of 
Coorg shall form o separate district to be known as Coor 
district, the said taluks of Bidar, Bhalki, Humnabad an 
Santpur (Aurad) shall be included in, and become part of, 
Gulbarga district, and the said Kollegal taluk shall be 
included in, and become part of, Mandya district, in the new 
State of Mysore. 


Bombay. 8. As from the appointed day, the territory comprised 
[1]--- 
(a) Greater Bombay district, 


(b) Borivali taluka of Thana district, except the villages 
of Bhayandar, Dongri, Ghod Bunder, Kashi, 
Maroshi, Mire, Rai Murdhe and Uttan, and 


Part VI} THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1849 


(c) the villages of Kopari, Mulund, Nahur and Turmbhe 
in Thana taluka of Thana district, 


shall cease to form part of the existing State of Bombay, and 
shall become a Union territory. 


9, (/)As from the appointed day, 11970" shall be formed 
n new State to be known as the State of Maharashtra com- 
prising the following territories, namely :— 
(a) Thano district except the portions specified in 
clauses (6) and (c) of section 8, West Khandesh, 
Kast Khandesh, Nasik, Dangs, Ahmednagar, 
Sholapur, South Satara, North Satara, Kolhapur, 
Ratnagiri, Kolaba and Poona districts, and 
Chandgad taluka of Belgaum district, in the 
existing State of Bombay; 
(b) Osmanabad, Bhir, Aurangabad, Parbhani, and 
Nanded districts nnd Ahmadpur, Nilanga and 
Udgir taluks of Bidar district, in the existing 
State of IWyderabad; and 
(c) Buldana, Akola, Amravati, Yeotmal, Wardha, 
Nagpur, Bhandara and Chanda districts in the 
existing State of Madhya Pradesh; 


und thereupon the said territories shall cease to form part 
0 the existing States of Bombay, Hyderabad and Madhya 
Pradesh, respectively. 


(2) The said Chandgad taluka shall be included in, and 
hecome part of, Kolhapur district, and the said Ahmadpur, 
Nilanga and Udgir taluka shall be included in, and hecome 
part of, Osmanabad district, in the State of Maharashtra. 


10. (/) As from the appointed day, there shall he 
formed a new State to be known as the State of Gujarat’ com- 
prising the following territories, namely :— 

(a) Banaskantha district except Abu Road taluka, and 
Amreli, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad, 
Kaira, Panchmahals, Baroda, Broach and Surat 
districts, in the existing State of Bombay ; 

(b) the territories of the existing State of Saurashtra ; 
and 

(c) the territories of the existing State of Kutch; 


and thereupon the said territories shall cease to form part 
of the existing States of Bombay, Saurashtra and Kutch, 


respectively. 

(2) The territory comprised in the existing State of 
Kutch shall form a separate district to be known as Kutch 
district. 


11, (1) As from the appointed day, there shall be form- 
ed a new State to be known as the State of Madhya Pradesh 
comprising the following territories, namely : — 

(a) the territories of the existing State of Madhya 
Pradesh, except the districts mentioned in clause 
(c) of sub-section (/) of section 9; 


ormation 
{ Mahara- 
shtra State. 


Formation 
of Gujarat 
State. 


THE CAT. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


[Parr VI 


2 nee 


Formation 
of a new 
Rajasthan 
State. 


Formatiofi 
of a now 
Punjab 
State. 


Saving 
powers of 
State Gov- 
ernment. 


(b) the territories of the existing State of Madhya 
Bharat, except Sunel tappa of Bhanpura tahsil 
of Mandsaur district; 


(c) Sironj subdivision of Kotab district in the existing 
State of Rajasthan; 


(৫) the territories of the existing State of Bhopal; and 


(6) the territories of the existing State of Vindhya 
Pradesh ; 


aud thereupon the said territories shall cease to form part of 
the existing States of Madhya Pradesh, Madhya Bharat, 
Rajasthan, Bhopal and Vindhya Pradesh, respectively. 


(¢) The said Sironj subdivision shall be included in, and 
sage part of, Bhilsa district in the new State of Madhya 
radesh. 


12. (4) As from the appointed day, there shall be formed 
a new State to be known as the State of Rajasthan compris- 
ing the following territories, namely :— 


(a) the territories of the existing State of Rajasthan, 
except Sironj subdivision of Kotah district: 


(5) the territories of the existing State of Ajmer: 


(6) Abu Road taluka of Banaskantha district in the 
existing State of Bombay; and 


(0) Sunel tappa of Bhenpura tahsil of Mandsaur district 
in the existing State of Madhya Bharat; 


and thereupon the said territories shall cease to form part 
of the said States of Rajasthan, Ajmer, Bombay and 
Madhya Bharat, respectively. 


(4) The territories comprised in the existing State of 
Ajmer shall form a separate district to be known as Ajmer 
district, and the territories referred to in clauses (c) and (d) 
of sub-section (1) shall be included in, and become part of, 
Sirohi and Jhalawar districts, respectively, in the new State 
of Rajasthan. 


13. As from the appointed day, there shall be formed a 
new State to be known as the State of Punjab comprising 
the following territories, namely : — 


(৫) the territories of the existing State of Punjab; and 


(b) the territories of the existing State of Patiala and 
East Punjab States Union; 


and thereupon the said territories shall cegse to form part 
of the said existing States of Punjab and Patiala and Hast 
Punjab States Union, respectively. 


14. Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Part 
shall be deemed to affect the power of a State Government 
to alter after the appointed day the name, extent and boun- 
daries of any district or division in the State. 


Part VI] THE CAL. GAZ. BXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


PART ITI 
ZONES AND ZONAL COUNCILS 


15. As from the appointed day, there shall be a Zonal 
Council for each of the following five zones, namely :— 

(a) the Northern Zone, comprising the States of Punjab, 

Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir and _ the 

Union territories of Delhi and Himachal Pradesh: 


(b) the Central Zone, comprising the States of Uttar 
Pradesh and Madhya Rradesh ; 


(c) the Eastern Zone, comprising the States of Bihar, 
West Bengal, Orissa and Assam, and the Union 
territories of Manipur and Tripura; 

(৫) the Western Zone, comprising the States of Maha- 
rashtra and Gujarat and the Union territory of 
Bombay; and 

(6) the Southern Zone, comprising the States of Andhra- 
Telangana, Madras, Mysore and Kerala. 


16, (Z) The Zonal Council for each zone shall consist of 
the following members, namely :— 

(2) a Union Minister to be nominated by the President; 

(b) the Chief Minister of each of the States included 
in the zone and two other Ministers of each such 
State to be nominated by the Governor; 

(c) where any Union territory is included in the sone, 
one member from each such territory to be noml- 
nated by the President; 

(d) in the case of the Eastern Zone, the person for the 
time being holding the office of the Adviser to the 
Governor of Assam for Tribal Areas. 


(2) The Union Minister nominated under Clause (a) of 
sub-section (1) to a Zonal Council shall be its Chairman. 
(3) The Chief Ministers of the States included in each 
zone shall act as Vice-Chairman of the Zonal Council for 
that zone by rotation, each holding office for a period of one 
year at a time. 
(4) The Zonal Council for each zone shall have the follow- 
ing persons as Advisers to assist the Council in the perfor- 
mance of its duties, namely :— 
(a2) ohe person nominated by the Planning Commission; 
(4) the persons for the time being holding the offices of 
Chief Secretaries in the States included in the 
zohe, and 

(c) the persons for the time heing holding the offices 
of Development Commissioners in the States 
included in the zone. 


(5) 11519 Adviser to a Zonal Council shall have the right 
to take part in the discussions of the Council or of any Com- 
mittee thereof of which he may be named a member but shall 
not have a right to vote at a meeting of the Council or of any 
such Comnuittee. 


1851 


19885101181. 
ment of 
Zonal 
Councils. 


Composi- 
tion of the 
Councils, 


1852 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Pant VI 


৯০০০০০০০৮৮০ 
সস 


Meetings of 17, (1) Each Zona) Council shall meet at such time as 

the Coun- the Vhairman of the Council may appoint in this behalf and 

oil. shall, subject to the other provisions of this section, observe 
such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of business 
at its meetings as it may, with the approval of the (Central 
Government, lay down from time to time. 


(2) The Zonal Council for each zone shall, unless other- 
wise determined by it, meet in the States included in that 
zone by rotation. 


(3) The Chairman or in his absence the Vice-Chairman 
or in the absence of both the Chairman and the Vice-Chair- 
man, any other Member chosen by the members present from 
amongst themselves shall preside at a meeting of the Council. 


(4) Al] questions ut a meeting of a Zonal Council shall be 
decided by a majority of votes of the Members present and 
in the case of an equality of votes the Chairman or, in his 
nbsence any other person presiding shall have a second or 
casting vote. 


(5) The proceedings of every meeting of a Zonal Council 
shall be forwarded to the Central Government and also to 
each State Government concerned, 


Power to 18, (1) A Zonal Council may from time to time by reso- 
appoint = lution passed at a meeting appoint Committees of its members 

- and Advisers for performing such functions as may be 
specified in the resolution and may associate with any such 
Committee, such Ministers either for the Union or for the 
States and such officers serving either in connection with the 
affairs of the Union or of the States as may be nominated 
in that behalf by the Council, 


(6) A person associated with a Committee of a Zonal 
Council under sub-section (1) shall have the right to take 
part in the discussions of the Committee, but shall not have 
a right to vote at a meeting thereof. 


(3) A Committee appointed under sub-section (7) shall 
observe such rules of procedure in regard to transaction of 
business at its meetings as the Zonal Council may, with the 
approval of the Central (tovernment, lay down from time to 
time. 


Staff of the 19, (4) Each Zonal Council] shall have ao secretarial staff 
Council. consisting of a Secretary, a Joint Secretary and such other 
officers as the Chairman may consider necessary to appoint. 


(2) The Chief Secretaries of the States represented in 
such Counci] shall each be the Secretary of the Council by 
rotation and hold office for a period of one year at a time. 


(3) The Joint Secretary of the Council shall be chosen 
from amongst officers not in the service of any of the States 
represented in the Council and shall be appointed bythe 
Chairmau. 


Office of 20. (1) The office of the Zonal Council for each zone shal) 
the Council. be lucated at such place within the zone as may be determined 
by the Council. 


Part 1 


——— 


THE 0417৯ GAZ. UXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


(4) The administrative expenses of the said office, includ- 
ing the salaries and allowances payable to or in respect of 
mombers of the secretarial staff of the Council other than the 
Secretary, shall be borne by the Central Government out of 
monies provided by Parliament for the purpose. 


21, (Z) Each Zonal Council shall be an advisory body 
and may discuss any matter in which some or all] of the States 
represented in that Council, or the Union and one or more 
of the States represented in that Council, have a common 
interest and advise the Central Government and the Govern- 
ment of each State concerned 04 to the action to be taken 
on any such matter. 


(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality 
of the provisions of sub-section (1), a Zonal Council may 
discuss, and make recommendations with regard to,— 


(a) any matter connected with, or arising out of, the 
reorganisation of the States under this Act, such 


as border disputes, linguistic minorities and inter- 
State transport; 


(6) any matter concerning economic planning; and 


(c) all matters of common interest and benefit to the 
people in the field of socia] planning. 


PART IV 
REPRESENTATION IN THE LEGISLATURES 


The Council of States 


22, (7) Such six of the eleven sitting members represent- 
ing the State of Hyderabad os the Chairman shall by order 
specify shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed to have 
been duly elected to fill six of the eighteen seats allotted to 
the State of Andhra-Telangana. 


(2) Such six of the seventeen sitting members represent- 
ing the State of Bombay as the Chairman shall by order 
specify and the five sitting members representing the States 
of Saurashtra and Kutch shall, as from the appointed day, 
be deemed to have been duly elected to fill the eleven seats 
allotted to the State of Gujarat. ~ 


(3) The six sitting members representing the State of 
Travancore-Cochin and such one of the eighteen sitting 
members representing the State of Madras as the Chairman 
shall by order specify shall, as from the appointed day, be 
deemed to have been duly elected to fill seven of the nine 
seats allotted to the State of Kerala. 


(4) The eleven sitting members representing the States of 
Bhopal, Madhya Bharat and Vindhya Pradesh and such fivo 
of the twelve sitting members representing the State of 
Madhya Pradesh aos the Chairman shall by order specify 
shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed to have been 
duly elected to fill the sixteen seats allotted to the new 
State of Madhya Pradesh. 


1853 


Functions 
of the 
Council, 


Allocation 
of sitting 
members 1n 
the Council 
of States. 


1854 


Bye-elec- 
Lions to fill 
Vacancies. 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


]۲۸۸۶ VI 


“ছা সন پا ا۷د وچ‎ me ৪1৮) 


(5) Such seven of the twelve sitting members representing 
the State of Madhya Pradesh, such seven of the seventeen 
sitting members representing the State of Bombay, and auch 
three of the eleven sitting members representing the State of 
Hyderabad, as the Chairman shall by order specify shall, as 
from the appointed day, be deemed to have been duly elected 
to fill the seventeen seats nilotted to the State of Maharashtra. 


(6) The six sitting members representing the State of 
Mysore, and such two of the seventeen sitting members re- 
presenting the State of Bombay, and such two of the eleven 
sitting members representing the State of Hyderabad, as the 
Chairman shall by order specify shall, as from the appointed 
day, be deemed to have been duly elected to fill ten of the 
twelve seats allotted to the new State of Mysore. 


(7) The eleven sitting members representing the existing 
States of Punjab and Patiala and Kast Punjab States Union 
shull, as from the appointed day, be deemed to have been 
duly elected to fill the eleven seats allotted to the new State 
of Punjab, 


(8) The nine sitting members representing the State of 
Rajasthan and the sittinyy member representing the States of 
Ajmer and Coorg shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed 
to have been duly elected to fill the ten seats allotted to the 
new State of Rajasthan. 


- (9 Such two of the seventeen sitting members representing 

the State of Bombay as the Chairman shall by order specify 
shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed to have been 
duly elected to fill two of the three seats allotted to the 
Union territory of Hombay. 


(70) The sitting member representing the State of Delhi 
shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed to have been 
duly elected to fill one of the two seats allotted to the Union 
territory of Delhi. 


(11) The sitting member representing the State of 
Himachal Pradesh shall, as from the appointed day, be 
deemed to have been duly elected to fill the seat allotted to 
the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh. 


(14) The sitting member representing the States of Mani- 
pur and Tripura shall, as from the appointed day, be 
deemed to have been duly elected to fill the seat allotted to 
the Union territory of Tripura, 


(13) In this section, ‘‘Chairman” means the Chairman of 
the Council of States. 


23, As soon as may he after the appointed day, hye-_ 


elections shall be held to fill the vacancies existing on the 
appointed day in the seats allotted to the States of Assam, 
Bihar, Keralu, Mysore, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West 
Bengal and to the Union territories of Bombay, Delhi and 
Manipur. 


Part VI] 


THE CAL. GAZ. KXATRY., ATG. 1, 1956 


1855 


nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn রাশির 


43 of 1950. 


24. In order that, as nearly ag may be, one-third of the 
members may retire on the 2nd day of April, 1958, and on 
the expiration of every second year thereafter, the President 
shall, after consultation with the Election Commission, make 
by order such provisions as he thinks fit in regard to the 
terms of office 01 the members elected under section 23 und 
such modifications us he thinks fit in the terms of office of 
any of the sitting members. 


The House of the People 


25. Nothing in Part IJ shall be deemed to affect the 
constitution or duration of the existing House of the People 
or the extent of the constituency of any sitting member of 
that House. 


The Legislative Assemblies 


26. (1) Where by virtue of the provisions of Part IT the 
whole area of any Assembly constituency in an existing State 
is transferred to any other existing State or becomes part of 
a new State, — 


(৫) that area shall, ag from the appointed day, be 
deemed to form a constituency provided by law for 
the purpose of elections to the Legislative 
Assembly of such other existing State or of such 
new State, as the 0088 may be: and 


(b) the sitting member representing that constituency 
shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed to 
have been elected to the said Legislative Assembly 
by that constituency and shall cease to be a 
member of the Legislative Assembly of which he 
was a member immediately before that day. 


(4) The provisions of the First Schedule shall apply in 
relation to the sitting members representing the Assembly 
coustituencies specified therein, parts of which are by virtue 
of the provisions of Part II transferred from an existing 
State to another existing State or to a new State. 


(3) The members of the electoral college for Kutch consti- 
tuted under section 27A of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1950 shall, as soon as may be after the commencement of 
this Act elect five persons from among themselves in accor- 
dance with the system of proportional representation by 
means of the single transferable vote and in such manner as 
may be prescribed; and the persons so elected shall, as from 
the appointed day, be deemed to have heen elected to the 
Legislative Assembly of Gujarat by a constituency compris- 
ing the whole of Kutch district. 


(4) The sitting members nominated under article 333 to 
represent the Anglo-Indian community in the Legislative 
Assemblies of Madhya Pradesh, Mvsore and Travancore- 
Cochin shall, as from the appointed day, cease to be members 
of those Assemblies and shall be deemed to have been nomi- 
nated under the said article by the respective Governors to 
the Legislative Assemblies of the corresponding new States. 


Term of 
fflee of 


9 


members. 


Provision 
as to 
existing 
House. 


Changes in 
com posi- 
tion and 
allocation 
of sitting 
members. 


1856 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


Special 27. When a general election is next held in the State of 
তা Andhra-Telangana for electing members to the House of the 
ا‎ গতি People, elections shall also be held to fil] the seats ullotted to 
Andbra- the Assembly constituencies into which the transferred 
Telangana territory in that State is divided in the order referred to in 
مت‎ sub-section (2) of section 44, as if those seats had become 
my vacant; and as from the date appointed under the Represen- 
tation of the People Act, 1951 as the date before which the 
said elections shall be completed, all the persons who, having 
been sitting members of the Legislative Assembly of Hvdera- 
bad, become on the appointed day members of the Legislative 
Assembly of Andhra-Telangana under sub-section (1) or sub- 
section (4) of section 26 of this Act shall cease to be such 

members 


Turation 28. (1) The period of five years referred to in clause (1) 

of Legula- of article 172 shall,— 

tive Assem- 

blies. (a) in the case of the Legislative Assembly of each new 
State except Kerala, as constituted by the provi- 
sions of section 26, be deemed to have commenced 
on the date on which it actually commenced in 
the case of the Jegislative Assembly of the cor- 
responding State; and 


(0) in the case of the Legislative Assembly of Kerala, 
he deemed to have commenced on the date on 
which it actually commenced in the case of the 
Legislative Assembly of Madras. 


(2) The changes in the composition of the Legislative 
Assemblies of Andhra-Telangana and Madras whether under 
section 26 or under section 27, shal] not affect their durations 
as provided in Clause (1) of article 172. 


Speakers 29. (1) The persons who immediately before the 

and Deputy appointed day are the Speakers and the Deputy Speakers of 

Speakers. the Legislative Assemblies of the existing States of Travan- 
core-Cochin, Mysore, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and 
Punjab shall, as from that day, be deemed to have been 
chosen under article 178 ag the Speakers and Deputy 
Speakers, respectively, of the Legislative Assemblies of the 
orresponding new States. 


(2) The persons who, immediately before the appointed 
day, are the Speakers of the Legislative Assemblies of the 
existing States of Bombay and Saurashtra shall, as from that 
day, be deemed to have been chosen under article 178 as the 
Speakers of the Legislative Assemblies of Maharashtra and 
Gtujarat, respectively. 


Rules of 30. Until rules are made under clause (1) of article 208 
procedure. by the Lewislative Assembly of a new State, the rules as to 


procedure and conduct of business in force immediately_ 


before the appointed day with respect to the legislative 
Assembly of the corresponding State shal] have effect in 
relation to the Jegislative Assembly of the new State subject 
to such modifications and adaptations as may be made therein 
by the Speaker. 


{ Part VI 


48 of 1951. 


Part VI] TIE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1950 1857 


f 


The Leyislutive Councils 


31 (7) As from such date as the President may by order Madhya 
appoint, there shall be a Legislative Council for the new State Pradesh 


of Madhya Pradesh. ea 


4) In the said Council there shall be 72 seats of which— 


(a) the numbers to be filled by persons elected by the 
eloctorates referred to in sub-clauses (৫), (b) and 
(c) of clause (3) of article 171 shall be 24, 6 and 6 
respectively ; 


(b) the number to be filled hy persons elected by the 
members of the Legislalive Assembly in accord- 
ance with the provisions of sub-Clause (d) of the 
said clause shall be 24; and 


(c) the number to be filled by persons nominated by the 
(tovernor in accordance with the provisions of sub- 
clause (6) of that clause shall be 12, 


(3) As soon as may be after the commencement of this 
Act, the President, after consultation with the Election Com- 
mission, shall by order determine— 


(a) the constituencies into which the said new State 
shall be divided for the purpose of elections to the 
Council under each of the sub-clauses (a), (b) and 
(c) of clause (3) of article 171; 


(9) the extent of each constituency; and 


(c) the number of seats allotted to each constituency. 


(4) As soon as may be after the appointed day, steps shall 
be taken to constitute the said Council in accordance with 
the provisions of this section and the provisions of the Repre- 

43 of 1960. sentation of the People Act, 1950 and the Representation of 
43 of 1961, the People Act, 1951: 


Provided that the election reterred to in clause (8) of sub- 
section (2) shall be held only after the general election to 
the Legislative Assembly of the new State of Madhya Pradesh 
has been held. 


32. (1) In the Legislative Council] of Madras, as from the Madras 
appointed day, there shal] be 48 seats of which— on 
00ا‎ 


(a) the numbers to be filled by persons elected hy the 
electorates referred to in sub-clauses (a), (By and 
(c) of clause (3) of article 171 shall be 16, 4 and 4 
respectively ; 


(b) the number to be filled by persons elected by the 
members of the Legislative Assembly in accord- 
ance with the provisions of sub-clause (d) of the 
8010] clause shall be 16, and 


(c) the number to be filled by persons nominated by 
the Governor in accordance with the provisions of 
sub-clause (e) of that clause shall be 8. 


1858 TILE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Part V] 


সি 


(4) As fiom the appointed day, the Delimitation of 
Council Constituencies (Madras) Order, 1951 shal] have effect 
subject to the modifications directed by the Second Schedule, 
and in the said Order,— 


(a) any reference to the State of Madras shall be constru- 
ed us including the territory added to that State b 
section 4 and as excluding the territory which 
ceases to be part of that State by virtue of sec- 
tion 5, section 6 or section 7; 


(6) any reference to Tirunelveli district shall be constru- 
ed as including the territory added to that district 
by section 4; and 


(c) any reference to Coimbatore district shall be con- 
strued as excluding Kollegal taluk. 


(3) The two sitting members of the said Council represent- 
ing the West Coast (Local Authorities) Constituency and such 
two of the six sitting members representing the Madras 
(Graduates) Constituency, and such two of the eighteen sitting 
members elected by the members of the Legislative Assembly, 
as the Chairman of the said Council shall by order specify 
سا‎ রি the appointed day, cease to be members of the said 

ouncil. 


(4) If, immediately before the appointed day, the total 
number of sitting members nominated by the Governor is 
nine, buch one of them as the Governor shall by order specify 
مت‎ ٠ the appointed day, cease to be a member of the said 

ouncil, 


(9) Save as provided by sub-section (3), every sitting 
member of the said Council representing a Council constitu- 
ency the extent of which is altered by virtue of sub- 
section (2) shall, as from the appointed day, be deemed to 
have been elected to the said Council by that constituency as 
৪0 altered. 


(6) As soon as may be after the appointed day, bye-elec- 
tions shall be held in all the local authorities constituencies 
to fill the vacancies existing on that day in the said Council. 


(7) In order that, as nearly as may be, one-third of the 
members of the said Council may retire on the 20th April 
1958, and on the expiration of every second year thereafter, 
the Governor shall, after consultation with the Election 
(Commission, make by order such provisions as he thinks fit 
in reyard to the terms of office of the members elected under 
sub-section (6) and such modifications as he thinks fit in the 
terms of office of any of the sitting members. 


Mysore _ 33, (4) As from the appointed day there shall be a 
Legislative [Legislative Council for the new State of Mysore. 


Council. 

(2) Until the said Council has been reconstituted 17 
accordance with the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4) of 
this section and summoned to meet for the first time the said 
Council shall consist of— 


(a) all the sitting members of the Legislative Council of 
the existing State of Mysore, and 


Part VI] THK CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1859 


(6) 29 members to represent the territories spevified in 
clauses (b), (¢), (৫) and (e) of sub-section (7) of 
section 7 who shall be chosen in such manner as 
may be prescribed. 


(J) After such reconstitution as aforesaid, there shall be 
60 seats in the said Council of which— 


(2) the numbers to be filled by persons elected by the 
electorates referred to in sub-clauses (a), (b) and 
(c) of clause (3) of article 171 shall be 20, 5 and 6 
respectively ; 


(6) the number to be filled by persons elected by the mem- 
bers of the Legislative Assembly in accordance 
with the provisions of sub-clause (d) of the said 
clause shall be 20; and 


(c) the number to be filled by persons nominated by the 
Governor in accordance with the provisions of 
sub-clause (6) of that clause shall be 10, 


(4) The provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 31 
shall apply in relation to the said Council as they apply in 
relation to the Legislative Council for the new State of 
Madhya Pradesh. 


34. (1) As from the appointed day there shall be a Legis- Punjab Le- 


lative Council for the new State of Punjab. chars اد‎ 
.  Counzil. 
(2) Until the said Council has been reconstituted in 42221 


accordance with the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4) uf 
this section and of any other law for the time being in force 
and has been summoned to meet for the first time, the said 
Council shall consist of— 


(7) all the sitting members of the Legislative Council of 
the existing State of Punjab, 


(8) eleven persons to be elected in such manner as may 
be prescribed by the members of the Legislative 
Assembly of the existing State of Patiala and 
Kast Punjab States Union from amongst persons 
who are not members of that Assembly. 


(3) After such reconstitution as aforesaid, there shall be 
48 seats in the said Council of which— 


(2) the numbers to be filled by persons elected by the 
electorates referred to in sub-clauses (a), (b) and 
(c) of clause (J) of article 171 shall be 16, 4 and 
4 respectively; 


(6) the number to be filled by persons کر‎ by the 
members of the Legislative Assembly in accord- 
ance with the provisions of sub-clause (d) of the 
said clause shall be 16; and 


(c) the number to he filled by persons nominated by the 
Governor in accordance with the provisions of sub- 
clause (e) of that clause shall be 8 


(¢) The provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 31 
shall apply in relation to the said Council as they apply in 
relation to the Legislative Council for the new State of 
Madhya Pradesh, 


mblies, 


Modifica- 
tion of the 
Scheduled 
05855 and 
Scheduled 
Tribes 
Orders. 


Determina- 
tion of po- 
pulation of 
Scheduled 


Castes 
Scheduled 
Tribes. 


Constitu- 
tion of 
Delimita- 
tion Com- 
mission, 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


35. The persons who immediately before the appointed 
day are the Chairmen and Deputy Chairmen of the Legis- 
lative Councils of the existing States of Mysore and Punjab 
shall, as from that day, be deemed to have been chosen under 
article 182 as the Chairmen and Deputy Chairmen, respec- 
St of the Legislative Councils of the corresponding new 
States. 


36. Until rules are made under clause (/) of article 8 
by the Legislative Council of the new State of Mysore or 
Punjab, the rules as to procedure and conduct of business 1n 
force immediately before the appointed day with respect to 
the Legislative Council of the corresponding State shall have 
effect in relation to the Legislative Council of the new State 
subject to such modifications and adaptations as may be made 
therein by the Chairman. 


Delimitation of Constituencies 


37. The number of seats in the House of the People 
allotted to each of the States (including the States which on 
the appointed day become Union territories) and the number 
of sents assigned to the Legislative Assembly of each State 
other than Jammu and Kashmir by order of the Delimitation 
Commission under the Delimitation Commission Act, 1952 
(hereinafter in this part referred to as ‘‘the former Commis- 
8101, and ‘“‘the former Act’’, respectively) shall be modified 
as shown in the Third Schedule. 


38. As soon as may be after the commencement of this 
Act, the President shall by order make such modifications in 
the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, the Constitu- 
tion (Scheduled Castes) (Part C States) Order, 1951, the 
Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 and the Consti- 
tution (Scheduled Tribes) (Part C States) Order, 1951, as he 
thinks fit having regard to the territorial changes and forma- 
tion of new States under the provisions of Part ۰ 


39. (1) After the said Orders have been so modified, the 
population as at the last census of the Scheduled Castes and of 
the Scheduled Tribes in each State and in each Union terri- 


and tory (including in relation to Assam, the population of the 
4 b 
0 


Scheduled Tribes in that State excluding the tribal areas, 
and the population in each autonomous district thereof) 
shal] be ascertained or estimated by the census authority in 
such manner as may be prescribed and shall be notified by 
that authority in the Gazette of India. 


(2) The population figures so notified shall be taken to be 
the relevant population figures as ascertained at the last 
census and shall supersede any figures previously published. 


40. (1) As soon as may be after the commencement of 
this Act, the Central Government shall constitute a Commis- 
sion to be called the Delimitation Commission which shall 
consist of three members as follows:— 


(a) two members each of whom shall be a person who ر8(‎ 
or has been, a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a 
High Court, to be appointed by the Central 
Government; and 


[Pant VI 
ہے‎ 


18 of 1952. 


Pant ৬] | 


THE CAL. 082,101 AUG. 1, 1956 


(0) the Chief Election Commissioner, 62 (77070, 


(2) The Central Government shall nominate one of the 
members appointed under:clause (a) of sub-section (4) to be 
the Chairman of the Commission. 


41. It shall be the duty of the Commission— 


(৫) to determine on the basis of the population figures 
notified under section 39 the number of seats, 1f 
any, to be reserved for the Scheduled Custes and 
the Scheduled Tribes of each State in the House of 
the People and in the Legislative Assembly of the 
State, having regard to the relevant provisions of 
the Constitution and of this Act; 


(6) to determine the parliamentary and assembly consti- 
tuencies into which each new State shall be divid- 
ed, the extent of, and the number of seats to be 
allotted to each such constituency, and the number 
of seats, if any, to be reserved for the Scheduled 
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes of the State in 
each such constituency; and 


(c) to revise or cancel any of the orders of the former 
Commission made under section 8 of the former 
Act so as to provide, having regard to the provi- 
sions of the Constitution und of this Act, for a 
proper delimnitution of all parliamentary consti- 
tuencies, including those comprised in the Union 
territories, and of all assembly constituencies. 


42. (2) For the purpose of assisting the Commission in 
the performance of its functions under clause (b) of section 41, 
the Commission shall associate with itself in respect of each 
new State such five persons as the Central Government shall 
by order specify, being persons— 


(a) who were associate members nominated under 
section 5 of the former Act and are members 
either of the House of the People or of a State 
Legislative Assembly, or 


(b) who are members of the Legislative Assembly of 
Patiala and East Punjab States Union or of 
Travancore-Cochin. 


(2) None of the associate members shall have a right to 
vote or to sign any decision of the Commission. 


43. If, owing to death or resignation, the office of the 
Chairman or of a member or of an associate member falls 
vacant, it shall be filled a3 9001] as may be practicable by the 
Central Government in accordance with the provisions of 
section 40 or, as the case may be, of section 42. 


44, (1) The provisions of section 7 of the former Act 
shall apply in relation to the Commission as it applied in 
relation to the former Commission; and in determining the 
matters referred to in clauses (0) and (০) of section 41, the 
Commission shal] have regard to the provisions contained in 
cluuses (a) to (6) of sub-section @2) of section 8 of the former 
Act. 


1861 


Duties of 
the Com- 
mission. 


Associate 
members. 


Casual 
vacancies, 


Procedure 
as to deli- 
mitation. 


1862 


High 
Courta for 
the new 
States. 


Abolition 
of certain 
courts. 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 6 


pt جو‎ 


(2) After determining all the matters referred to in sec- 
tion 41, the Commission shall prepure an order, to be known as 
the Delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constitu- 
encies Order, 1956, and send authenticated copies thereof to 
the Central Government and to each of the State Govern- 
ments; and thereupon, that Order shall supersede all the 
orders made by the former Commission and have the full 
force of law and shall not be called in question in any court. 


(3) As soon as may be after the said Order is received by 
the Central Government or a State Government, it shall be 
laid before the House of the People or, as the case may be, 
the Legislative Assembly of the State. 


(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (J), the re- 
adjustment of the representation of the several constituencies 
in the House of the People or in the Legislative Assembly of 
a State and the delimitation of those constituencies provided 
for in the said Order shall apply in relation to every election 
to the House of the People or to the Legislative Assembly of 
a State, as the case may be, held after the appointed day, 
and shall so apply in supersession of the provisions contained 
in any other law. 


(5) Nothing in this section shal] affect the representation 
in the House of the People or in the Legislative Assembly of 
a State until the dissolution of the House or the Assembly, as 
the case may be, existing or brought into existence on the 
appointed day. 


(6) At any time within six months of the date of the said 
Order, any printing mistake found therein and any other 
error arising therein from an accidental slip or omission may 
be corrected by the Chief Election Commissioner by order 
published in the Gazette of India. 


PART V 
নাও Courts 


45. (1) The High Court at Bombay shall, as from the 
appointed day, be deemed to be the High Court for the States 
of Gujarat and Maharashtra and for the Union territory of 
Bombay. 


(2) The High Courts exercising immediately before the 
appointed day jurisdiction in relation to the existing States 
of Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, Punjab, Rajasthan and Travan- 
core-Cochin shall, as from the appomted day, be deemed to 
be the High Courts for the corresponding new States. 


46. (J) As from the appointed day, the High Courts of 
Hyderabad, Madhya Bharat, Patiala and East Punjab States 
Union and Saurashtra and the Courts of the Judicial Commis- 
sioners for Ajmer, Bhopal, Kutch ond Vindhya Pradesh shall 
cease to function and are hereby abolished. 


(2) Nothing in sub-section (Z) shall prejudice or affect the 
continued operation of any notice served, injunction issued, 
direction given or proceedings taken before the appointed day 
by any of the courts abolished by that sub-section under the 
powers then conferred upon that court. 


[Part VI 


pari VI] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 186: 


47, The High Court for a new State shall have, in res- Juriadic- 
pect of the territories for the time being included in that new on of 
State, all such original, appellate and other jurisdiction as, 
under the law 11) force immediately before the appointed day, new 
is exercisable in respect of the said territories or any part of States. 
the said territories by any 11161) Court or Judicial Commis- 
sioner's Court for an existing State. 


48. (J) The High Court for a new State shall have the Power to 
like powers to approve, admit, enrol, remove and suspend enrol advo- 
advocates and atturneys, and to make rules with respect to ০৪6০৪, ৮০, 
advorates and attorneys as are, under the law in force imme- 
diately before the appointed day, exercisable by the High 
Court for the corresponding State. 


(2) The right of audience in the 11101) Court for a new 
State shall be regulated in accordance with the like prin- 
ciples as, immediately before the appointed day, are in force 
with respect to the right of audience in the High Court for 
the corresponding State: 


Provided that, subject to any rule made or direction given 
by the High Court for a new State in exercise of the power 
conferred by this section, any person who, immediately 
before the appointed day, is an advocate entitled to practise, 
or an attorney entitled to act in any such IJagh Court or 
Judicial Commissioner’s Court as may be specified in this 
behalf by the Chief Justice of the High Court for the new 
State, shall be recognised as an advocate or an attorney 
entitled to practise or to act, as the case may be, in the Hig 
Court for the new State. 


49. Subject to the provisions of this Part, the law in Practice 
force immediately before the appointed day with respect 10 on proce- 
practice and procedure in the High Court for the টা ve 
ing State shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in 
relation to the High Court for a new State, and accordingly, 
the High Court for the new State shall have all such powers 
to make rules and orders with respect to practice and proce- 
dure as are, immediately before the appointed day, exercis- 
able by the High Court for the corresponding State: 


Provided that any rules or orders which are in force imme- 
diately before the appointed day with respect to practice and 
procedure in the High Court for the corresponding State 
shall, until varied or revoked by rules or orders made by the 
High Court for a new State, apply with the necessary modi- 
fications in relation to practice and procedure in the High 
Court for the new State as if made by that Court. 


50, The law in force immediately before the appointed Custody 
day with respect to the custody of the seal of the High Court of the اوہ‎ 
for the corresponding State shall, with the necessary modifica- ae 
tions, apply with respect to the custody of the seal of the court. 
Hich Court for a new State. 


51. The law in force immediately hefore the appointed Form of 
day with respect to the form of writs and other processes used, ক and 
issued or awarded by the High Court for the corresponding জা 
State shall, with the necessary modifications, apply with res- 
pect to the form of writs and other processes used, issued or 
awarded by the High Court for a new State. 


1864 11116 CAL. GAZ, EXTRY.: AUG. 1, 1956 [Parr VI 
পল eee নিল eee 
Powors of 52. The law in force immediately before the appointed 
Judges. = day relating to the powers of the Chief Justice, single Judges 

und division courts of the 11101) Court for the corresponding 

State and with respect to matters ancillary to the exercise ot 

those powers shall, with the necessary modifications, apply in 

relation to the High Court for a new State. 


Seat of §3. The High Court for a new State and the judges and 
the High = division courts thereof shall sit at such place or places as the 
Court. Chief Justice may, with the approval of the Governor, 
appoint. 

Procedure 54, The law in force immediately before the appointed 
as to day relating to appeals to the Supreme Court from the [Tigh 
۵و"‎ Court for the corresponding State and the judges and division 
Suprome Courts thereof shall, with the necessary modifications, apply 
Court. in relation to the 11101) Court for a new State. 

Transfer 55. (1) Except as hereinafter provided, the High Court 
of proceed. at Nagpur (which on the appointed day becomes the High 
সঃ Court for the new State of Madhya Pradesh and is referred 


eh to in this Act as the High Court of Madhya Pradesh) shall, 
Court. as from that day, have no jurisdiction in respect of the terri- 
tory transferred from the existing State of Madhya Pradesh 


to the State of Maharashtra. 


. (2) Such proceedings pending in the Jligh Court at 
Nagpur or the High Court of Hyderabad immediately before 
the appomted day as are certified by the Chief Justice of that 
High Court; having regard to the place of accrual of the 
cause of action and other circumstances, to be proceedings 
which ought to be heard and decided by the High Court at 
Bombay as the High Court for the new State of Maharashtra 
shall, as soon as may be after such certification, be transferred 
to the High Court at Bombay. 


(J) All proceedings pending in the High Court of Sau- 
rashtru or in the Court of the Judicial Commissioner for 
Kutch immediately before the appointed day shall stand 
transferred to the High Court at Se و‎ as the High Court 
for the new State of Gujarat. 


(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (Z) 
and (2), but save as hereinafter provided, the High Court of 
Madhya Pradesh shall have, and the 11161) Court at Bombay 
shall not have, jurisdiction to entertain, hear or dispose of 
appeals, applications for leave to appeal to the Supreme 
Court, applications for review und other proceedings, where 
any such proceedings seek any relief in respect of any orders 
মাও by the High Court at Nagpur before the appointed 

ay: 


Provided that if after any such proceedings have —been 
entertained by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh it appears 
to the Chief Justice of that High Court that they ought to be 
transferred to the 1111) Court at Bombay, he shall order that 
they shall be so transferred, and such proceedings shall there- 
upon be transferred accordingly. 


pars VI] 


THK CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1865 


(5) Any order made before the appointed day by any court 
referred to in sub-section (4) or sub-section (3) in any proceed- 
ings transferred to the High Court at Bombay by virtue of 
a اکر‎ (2) or sub-section (3) shall for all purposes have 
effect, not only as an order of that court, but also as an order 
of the High Court at Bombay; and any order made by the 
High Court of Madhya Pradesh in any proceedings with res- 
pect to which {hat court retains jurisdiction by virtue of sub- 
section (4) shall for all purposes have effect, not only as an 
order of that High Court, but also as an order of the High 
Jourt ot Bombay. 


56. (1) As from the appointed day the jurisdiction of the 
High Court for the State of Kerala (referred to in this Act as 
the High Court of Kerala) shall extend to the Union territory 
of the Taccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands. 


(2) Except as hereinafter provided, the 11161) Court at 
Madras shall, as from the appointed day, have no jurisdiction 
in respect of the said Union territory or in respect of any 
رت‎ (01)8161160 from the State of Madras to the State of 

erala. 


(3) Such proceedings pending in the High Court at 
Madras immediately before the appointed day as are certified 
by the Chief Justice of that High Court, having regard to 
the place of accrual of the cause of action and other circum- 
stances, to be proceedings which ought to be heard and decided 
by the Tigh Court of Keats shal], as soon as may be after 
such certification, be transferred to the High Court of Kerala. 


(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (4) 
and (2), but suve as hereinafter provided, the High Court at 
Madras shall have, and the High Court of Kerala shall not 
have, jurisdiction to entertain, hear or dispose of appeals, 
applications for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, appli- 
cations for review and other proceedings, where any such 
proceedings seek any relief in respect of any order passed by 
the High Court at Madras before the appointed day: 


Provided that if after any such proceedings have been 
entertained by the High Court at Madras it appears to the 
Chief Justice of that High Court that they ought to be trans- 
ferred to the High Court of Kerala, he shall order that they 
shall be so transferred, and such proceedings shall thereupon 
be transferred accordingly. 


(5) Any order made by the High Court at Madras— 


(a) before the appointed day in any proceedings trans- 
ferred to the High Court of Kerala by virtue of 
sub-section (3); or 


(6) in any proceedings with respect to which the High 
Court at Madras retains jurisdiction by virtue of 
sub-section (4), 


shall for all purposes have effect, not only as an order of 
the High Court at Madras, but also as an order made by the 
1701) Court of Kerala. 


Extension 
of jurisdic. 
tion of, and 
transfer of 
proceed. 
Ings to, 
Kerala 
High 
Court. 


1866 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Parr VI 
পল ২ ০০৯৯৯ 


Transfer of 57. (7) As from the appointed day, the High Court of 
proceed- = Rajasthan shall have no jurisdiction in respect of the terri- 


mg to tory transferred from tho existing State of Rajasthan to the 
Madhya 

Pradesh new State of Madhya Pradesh. 

পো (2) Such proceedings pending in the High Court of 


Yajasthun immediately before the appointed day as are 
certified hy the Chief Justice of that High Court, having 
regurd to the place of accrual of the cause of action and other 
circumstances, to be proceedings which ought to be heard 
and decided by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh shall, os 
soon as may be after such certification, he transferred to the 
High Court of Madhya Pradesh. 


(3) All proceedings pending in the High Court of 
Madhya Bharat or in the Court of the Judicial Commis- 
sioner for Bhopal or in the Court of the Judicial Commis- 
sioner for Vindhya Pradesh, immediately before the 
appointed day, shall stand transferred to the High Court 
of Madhya Pradesh. 


(4) Any order made before the appointed day by any 
court referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) shall 
for all purposes have effect not only as an order of that Court 
but also as un order of the Tigh Court of Madhya Pradesh. 


Transfer of 58, (1) Except as hereinafter provided, neither the High 

proceed- Court at Bombay nor the High Court at Madras shall, as 

from the appointed day, have jurisdiction in respect of any 

High territory transferred from the existing State of Bombay or 

Court. — State of Madras, as the case may a to the new State of 
8010. 


2) Such proceedings pending in the High Court of 
ITyderabad or the High Court at Bombay or Das imme- 
diately before the appointed day, as are certified by the 
Chief Justice of that High Court, having regard to the place 
of accrual of the cause of action and other circumstances, to 
be proceedings which ought to be heard and decided by the 
High Court a the new State of Mysore (referred to in this 
Act as the High Court of Mysore) shall, as soon as may he 
after such certification, be transferred to the High Court of 
Mysore. 


(3) Notwithstanding anything contained 17; sub-sec- 
tions (7) and (2) but save as hereinafter provided, the High 
Court at Bombay or, as the case may be, the High Court at 
Madras shall have, and the 11181) Court of Mysore shall not 
have, jurisdiction to entertain, hear or dispose of appeals, 
applications for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, 
applications for review and other proceedings, where any 
such proceedings seek any relief in respect of any order 
passed by the High Court at Bombay or Madras before the 
appointed day: 


Provided that if after any such proceedings have been 
entertained by the High Court at Bombay or Madras it 
appears to the Chief Justice of that Iligh Court that they 
ought to be transferred to the High Court of Mysore, he 
shall order that they shal] be so transferred and such 
proceedings shall thereupon be transferred accordingly... 


Parr 1 


THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1867 


(4) Any order made by the Iligh Court of Hyderabad 
before the appointed day in uny proceedings transferred to 
the High Court of Mysore by virtue of sub-section (2) shall, 
for ull purposes, have effect not only as an order of the 
High Court of Ilyderabad, but also as an order made by 
the High Court of Mysore. 


(5) Any order made by the High Court at Bombay or 
Madras— 


(a) before the appointed day in any proceedings 
transferred to the High Court of Mysore by 
virtue of sub-section (2), or 


(b) in any পাপ with 7a to which the 11181) 
Court at Bombay o: Madras retains jurisdiction 
by virtue of sub-section (3). 


shall, for all purposes, have effect not only as an order of 
the High Court at Bombay or Madras, but also as an order 
of the High Court of Mysore. 


59. (4) All proceedings pending in the High Court of 
Patiala and East Punjab States Union immediately before 
the appointed day shall stand transferred to the High 
Court for the new State of Punjab (referred to in this Act 
as the. High Court of Punjab). 


2) Any order made before the appointed day by the 
High Court of Patiala and Kast Punjab States Union shall 
for all purposes have effect, not only as an order of that 
Court, but also as an order made by the High Court of 
Punjab. 


Transfer of 


proceedings 
to Punjab 
High Court 


60. (7) As from the appointed day, the High Court at qransfer of 


চি 


Bombay shall have no jurisdiction in respect of the terri- 
tory transferred from the existing State of Bombay, to the 
new State of Rajasthan. 


(2) Such proceedings pending in the High Court at 
Bombay or the High Court of Madhya Bharat immediately 
before the seen day us are certified by the Chief 
Justice of that High Court, having regard to the place of 
accrual of the 0৮180 of action and other circumstances, 0 
be proceedings which ought to be heard and decided by 
the High Court for the new State of Rajasthan (referred to 
in this Act as the High Court of Rajasthan) shall, as soon 
as may be after auch certification, be transferred to the 
High Court of Rajasthan. 


é 


(3) All proceedings pending in the Court of the Judicial 
Commissioner for Ajmer immediately before the appointed 
day shall stand transferred to the High Court of Rajasthan. 


(4) Any order made before the appointed day by any 
Court referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) in 
any proceedings transferred to the High Court of Rajasthan 
by virtue of sub-section (2) or sub-section (2) shall, for all 
purposes, have effect not only as an order of that Court, but 
also as an order of the High Court of Rajasthan. 


0 

to Rajas- 
than High 
Court. 


LBS 1116 CAG. GAA. BATH, ACG. ہا‎ Dob {PART VI 


জজ ہے‎ পরার :-مسسسمٗسستبی‎ Pe [রানার 
এস? নল া১০ রিও sm Ep RE GE FFE EL EL eA CD 


Seer eterna:‏ مت 


کہ وہىععععت: 


এ G1. (4) As trom the appointed day, the jurisdiction of‏ کے 
ded the High Court of the existing State of Andhra shall extend‏ 7 
that State‏ نا to Andhra, tO the whole of the territories transferred‏ 


from the existing State of Llyderabad. 


4) Such proceedings pending in the High Court of 
Hyderabad immediately before the appointed day as are 
certified by the Chief Justice of that H igh Court, having 
Hk to the place of accrual of the cuuse of action and 
other circumstances, to be proceedings which ought to be 
heard and decided by the High Court of Andhra- 
Telangana shall, as soon as may be atter such certification, 
be transferred to the High Court of Andhra. 


(3) Any order made by the High Court of Hyderabad 
before the appointed day in any proceedings transterred to 
the High Court of Andhra by virtue of sub-section (2) shall, 
for all purposes, have effect not only us an order of the 
Tigh Court of Hyderabad but also as 01) order made by 
the High Court of Andhra-Telanganu, 


High Court 62. (2) Iixcept as hereinafter provided— 
for the 


areas (a) the jurisdiction of the High Court at Madras 

added to shall, as trom the appointed day, extend to the 

Madras. whole of the territories transferred to the State 
of নী from the State of Travancore-Cochin; 
and » 


(9) the High Court of Kerala shall, as from that day, 
have no jurisdiction in respect of the said 
transferred territories. 


(2) Such proceedings pending ir the High Court of 
Travanore-Cochin immediately before the appointed day as 
are certified before that day by the Chief Justice of that 
High Court or after that day by the Chief Justive of the 
High Court of Kerala, having regard to the place of 
accrua) of the cause of action and other circumstances to be 
proceedings which ought to be heard and decided by the 
High Court at Madras shall, as soon as may be after such 
certification, be transferred to the High Court at Madras. 


(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sec- 
tions (7) and (2), but save as hereinafter provided, the High 
Court of Kerala shal] have, and the High Court at Madras 
shall not have, jurisdiction to entertain, hear ar dispose of 
appeals, applications for leave to appeal to the Supreme 
Court, applications for review and other proceedings where 
any such proceedings seek any relief in respect of any order 
passed by the High Court of Travancore-Cochin before the 
appointed day: 


Provided that if, after any such proceedings have been 
entertained by the High Court of Kerala, it appears io the 
Chief Justice of that High Court that they ought 10 he 
transferred to the Fligh Court at Madras, he shall order 
that they shall be so transferred, and such proceedings shall 
thereupon be transferred accordingly. 


Part ۱ 
হল 


THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1) 


ee‏ — کو رر 


1956 


(4) Anv order made— 


(a) hy the High Court ot Travancore-Cochin before the 
appointed day in any proceedings transferred, to 
the High Court at Madras by virtue of ৪1) 
section (2); or 


(b) by the High Court of Kerala in 
with respect to which that High Court 
jurisdiction by virtue of sub-section (3), 


uny proceedings 
retains 


shall, for all purposes, have effect, not only as an order of 
the High Court of Tranvancore-Cochin or the High Court of 
Kerala, as the case may be, but also us an order made by 
the High Court at Madras, 


63, Any pesron who immediately before the appointed 
day 13 an advocate entitled to practise, or an attorney 
entitied to act, In the High Court for an existing State and 
was authorised to appear or to act in any proceedings 
transferred from that High Court to any other High Court 


under any of the foregoing provisions of this Part shall have # 


the right to appear or to act, as the case may be, in the 
other High Court in relation te those proceedings. 


64, 


(a) proceedings shall be deemed to be pending in a 
court until that court has disposed of all issues 
hetween the parties, including any issues with 
respect to the taxation of the costs of the pro- 
ceedings and shall include appeals, applications 
for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court, appli- 
cations for review, petitions for revision and 
petitions for writs; 


For the purposes of sections 55 to 62,— 


(0) references to a High Court shall be construed as 
including references to a Judge or division court 
thereof, and references to an order made by a 
court or a judge shall be construed as including 
references to a sentence, judgment or decree 
passed or made by that court or judge. 


65. Nothing in this Vart shall affect the application 
to the High Court for a new Stute of any provisions of the 
Constitution, and this Part shall have effect subject to any 
provision that may be made on or after the appointed day 
with respect to that High Court by any Legislature 0] 
other authority having power to make 8001) provision. 


PART VI 
AUTHORISATION OF EXPENDITURE 


Or 


66. In the case of every new State, the (Governor 
time 


Rajpramukh of the corresponding State may 91 any 
before the appointed day authorise such expenditure from 
the Consolidated Fund of the new State as he deems 
necessary for a period of not more than three months begin- 
ning with the appointed day pending the sanction of such 
expenditure by the Legislature of the new State. 


1869 


ح وت بت جس وہ ہے اش ہش ہہ ہیں 
دی کے سس ہہ رر 


Interpreta- 
tion, 


Savings. 


Authorisa- 
tion of 03, 
penditure 
pending 
renction by 
18۰ 
urea of 
new States. 


1870 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Part VI 
rer সস سسسےسچو‎ 
Appropria- 6۵15٠ مھ‎ from the appointed day, any Act passed by the 
تر‎ 7 Legislature of the State of Andhra or Madras before that 
y day tor the appropriation of uny money out of the consoli- 
turein dated fund of the State to mect any expenditure in respect 
transferred of any part of the finuncial year 1956-57 shall huve effect 
জাগার also in relation to the transferred territory in that State, 
ting 000 it shall be lawful for the State Government to spend 
Appropria- 17٣ amount in such transferred territory out of the amount 
tion Acts. uuthorised by such Act to be expended for any service in 
that State. 


Reports 68. (1) Where the whole or any part of the territory of 

ee an existing State 108 been transferred to another 

accounts of @Xisting State or to a new State hy the provisions of 

certain 1১07 11, the reports of the Comptroller and Auditor- 

States. General of India referred to in clause (2) of article 151 
relating to the accounts of that existing State in respect 
of any period prior to the appointed day, shall be submitted 
to the Governor of such State or of each of such States as 
the President may by order specify and the Governor shall 
thereupon cause them to be laid before the Legislature of 
that State. 


(2) The President may by order— 


(a) declare any expenditure incurred out of the Conso- 
lidated Fund of Bombay, Madhya Pradesh or 
Punjab or of any Part B or Part C State on any 
service during the financial year 1955-56 or any 
earlier financial year in excess of the amount 
granted for that service and for that year as 
disclosed in the reports referred to in  sub-sec- 
tion (1) to have been duly authorised, and 


(9) provide for any action to be taken on any matter 
arising oul of the said reports. 


Allowances 69, The allowances and privileges of the Governor of 


217 each new State shall, until provision in that behalf is made 
وس‎ by Parliament by law under clause (8) of article 158, be 


of new such as the President may, by order, determine. 
States. 
Distribu- 70. Section 3 of the Union Duties of Excise (Distribu- 


Hee of 6100) Act, 19583 and paragraphs 3 and 5 of the Constitution 3 of 1983. 
95:56, (Distribution of Revenues) Order, 1953 shall, in respect of 
the financial year 1956-57, have eflect in the modified form 
set out in the Fourth Schedule. 


PART VIT 


APPORTIONMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF CERTAIN Part 
A ann Part B Statrs 


Application 71. The provisions of this Part shall apply in relation 

of Part to the apportionment of the assets and _ liabilities imame- 
diately before the appointed day of every Part A or Part B 
State the whole or any part of whose territories is trans- 
ferred to another State or becomes a Wnion territory by 
virtue of the provisions of Part IJ; and the expression 
“existing State” shall accordingly be construed to mean 
any such Part A State or Part B State. 


Part VI] THE OAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 187} 


So تسچ سپ سچچے تج کچ سو کے ے“ۓ سے ےچ کچ‎  چہس‎ 
72. (7) Subject (0 the other provisions of this Part, all Land and 
land and all stores, articles and other goods belonging to an ৪০০০৪. 
existing State shall pass to the successor State in which 
they are situated. 


(2) Any unissued stores of any class in an_ existing 
State fail pass to the successor State, or if there be two or 
more successor States, shall be divided between them in pro- 
portion to the total indents for stores of that class made in 
the period of three years ending with the 8186 day of March 
1956, for the territories of the existing State included 
respectively in each of those successor States: 


Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to 
stores 11810 for specific purposes, such as use or 0+00 
in particular institutions, workshops or undertakings or دہ‎ 
particular works under construction. 


(3) In this section, the expression ‘‘land’”’ includes 
immovable property of every kind and any rights in or 
over such property, and the expression ‘‘goods’’ does not 
include coins, bank notes and currency notes. 


73. The total of the cash balances in 01] treasuries of papi A 
an existing State and the credit balances of that State یسوی‎ 
with the Reserve Bank of India immediately before the 
appointed day shall pass to the successor State, or, if there 
be two or more successor States, be divided between them 


according to the population ratio: 


Provided that for the purpose of such division, there 
shall be no transfer of cash balances from any treasury to 
any other treasury and the apportionment shall be effected 
by adjusting the credit balances of the successor States in 
the books of the Reserve Bank of India on the appointed 


day : 


Provided further that if any successor State has no 
account with the Reserve Bank of India, the adjustment 
shall be made in such manner as the Central Government 
may by order direct. 


74, The right to recover arrears of taxes (including Arrears of 
land revenue) shall belong to the successor State in which the taxes. 
taxed property is situate or in which the aren where the 
taxed transactions took place is included. 


75. (1) The right to recover any loans, or advances Right to 
made before the appointed day by an existing State to any Tecover 
local body, society, agriculturist or other person in an area 00ھ"‎ 
within that State shall belong to the successor State in “°° 
which that aren is included. 


(2) The right to recover any loans or advances made 
before the appointed day by an existing State to any person 
or institution outside that State shull belong to the 
successor State or, if there be two or more successor States, 
to such one of them as the Central Government may by 
order specify: 


1872 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY.. AUG. 1, 1956 [Parr VI 


Provided that where × successor State has been 80 
specified, any gum recovered in respect of any such loan or 
advance shull be divided between all the successor States 
according to the population ratio. 


Credits in 76. The investments in the eash balance investments 
م0‎ account, the famine relief fund and the general fund of an 


existing State and the sume at the credit of an existing 
State in the central road fund shall pass 10 the 8:0٣ 
State or, 1f there be two or more successor States, be 
divided between them according to the population ratio. 


Assets and “7, (2) The assets and liabilities relating to any com- 


liabiliti . ৃ | et 

of পাস mercial or industrial undertaking of an existing State shull 
under. pa to the successor State in which the undertaking is 
takinge. ocated. 


(2) Where a depreciation reserve fund is maintained by 
an existing State for any commercial or industrial wunder- 
taking, the securities held in respect of investments made 
from that fund shall pass to the successor State in which 
the undertaking 1s located, 


Public 78. (7) The public debt of each of the existing States 

debt. of Bombay and Hyderabad attributable to loans raised by 
the issue of (dovernment securities and outstanding with 
the public immediately before the 30th day of September, 
1956, shall as from that day be the debt of the Union, and 
immediately on such rb Se of the debt, the Central 
Government shall be deemed to have made a loan 10 that 
State of on amount equal to the debt so transferred on the 
same terms in regard to interest and repayment as are 
applicable to the loans مہ‎ raised by that State. 


(2) The public debt of any other existing State attribut- 
able to loans raised by the issue of Government securities 
and outstanding with the public immediately before the 
appointed day shall, as from that day, be the debt of the 
successor State or, 11 there be two or more successor States, 
be the debt of such one of them as the (‘entral Government 
may, by order, specify; and in the latter case,— 


(a) the other successor States shall be lable to pay to 
the successor States so specified their shures of 
the sums due from time to time for the servicing 
and repayment of the debt; and 


(6) for the purpose of determining the said shares, the 
debt shall be deemed to be divided between the 
successor States as if it were a debt referred to 
in sub-section (4), 


(3) The public debt of an existing State attributable to 
loans taken from the Central Government, the Leserve 
Bank of India or any other Bank «before the appointed 
day, including in the case of Bombay or Hyderabad the 
loan deemed to have been made by the Centra] (rovernment 
under sub-section (7), shall pass to the successor State, or 
if there be two or more successor States, be divided between 
thein in proportion to the total expenditure on all capital 


Panr 1) 


THE CAL. GAZ. UXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1873 


$8 of 4. 


pete ieee eee | 


works aud other capital outlays incurred up to the 
appointed day in the territories of the existing State 
included respectively in each of those successor States: 


Provided that for the purposes of such division, only 
expenditure on assets for which capital accounts have been 
kept shall be taken into account. 


(4) Where 0, sinking fund is maintained by an existing 
Stute for the repayment uf any loan raised by it, the 
securities 11610 in respect of investments made trom that 
fund shal] puss to the successor State or, 11 there be two or 
more successor States, be divided between them in the same 
proportion as the public debt referred to in sub-section (3). 


(6) In this section, the expression ‘iovernment 
security’? means a security created and issued by a State 
Government for the purpose of raising a public Joan and 
having any of the forms specified in, or prescribed under, 
clause (4) of section 2 of the Public Debt Act, 1944. 


79. Civil deposits and local fund deposits with an 
existing State shall pass to the successur State in whose 
area the deposits have been made and the lability to pay 
them shall fall on that State. 


80. The liability of an existing State in respect of the 
provident fund account of a Government servant in service 
on the appointed day shall, as from that day, be the 
liubiilty ot the succesors State to which that Government 
servant is permanently allotted. 


81. The liability of the existing States in respect of 
pensions shall pass to, or be apportioned between, the 
successor States in accordance with the provisions contained 


in the 116) Schedule. 


82. (1) Where before the appointed day an _ existing 
State has made any contract in the exercise of its executive 
power for any purposes of the State, that contract shall be 
deemed to have been made in the exercise of the executive 
power— 


(a) 11 there be only one successor State,—of that 
State; 


(b) if there be two or more successor States and the 
purposes of the contract are, as from the 
appointed day, exclusively purposes of any one 
of them,—of that State; and 


é 
(c) if there be two or more successor States and _ the 
purposes of the contract are, as from that day, 
not exclusively purposes of any one of them,— 
of the principal successor State : 


Provided that in any such case as is referred to in 
clause (c), the initial allocation of rights and liabilities 
made by this sub-section shall be subject to such financial 
adjustment as may be agreed upon between all the successor 
States concerned, or in default of such agreement, 8৪ the 
Central Government may by order direct. 


De 8. 


Provident 
funds. 


Pensions. 


Contracts. 


1874 THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Part VI 
en a a Ee ت تس سسکپہہپہپبی یٹس یٹ‎ سث٠۰یٍِتسستسححع‎ 


(2) For the purposes of this section, there shall be deem- 
ed to be included in the habilities which have acerued 7 
may accrue under any contract— 


(a) any lability to satisfy an order or award made by 
any court or other tribunal in proceedings relat- 
ing to the contract; and 


(b) any liability in respect of expenses incurred in or 
In connection with any such proceedings. 


(3) This section shall have effect subject to the other 
rovisions of this Part relating to the apportionment of 
19101176098 in respect of loans, guarantees and other financial 
obligations; and bank balances and securities shall notwith- 
standing that they partake of the nature of contractual 
rights, be dealt with under those provisions. 


Liability in 83. Where, immediately before the appointed day, an 
respect of existing State is subject to any liability in respect of an 
actionable actionable wrong other than breach of contract, that liabi- 
552 lity shall— 
(৫) if there be only one successor State, be 8 liability 
of that State; 


(b) if there be two or more successor States ond the 
cause of action arose wholly within the terri- 
tories which as from that day are the territories 
of one of them, be a liability of that successor 
State; and 


(c) in any other case, be initially a liability of the 
principal successor State, but subject to such 
financial adjustment as may be agreed upon 
between all the successor States concerned, or 
in default of such agreement, as the Central 
Government may by order direct. 


Liabilityas 84. Where, immediately before the appointed day, an 
guarantor existing State is liable as guarantor in respect of any 


of sae liability of a registered co-operative society, that liability 
বনি of the existing State shall— 


(৫) if there be only one successor State, be a _ liability 
» of that State; and 


(b) if there be two or more successor States and the 
area of the society’s operations is limited to the 
territories which as from that day are the 
territories of one of them, be a liability of that 
successor State. 


টিজার 85. If any item in suspenee is ultimately found to 

guspenee. atfect an asset or liability of the nature referred to in any 
of the foregoing provisions of this Part, it shall be dealt 
with in accordance with that provision. 


Residuary 86. The benefit or burden of any assets or liabilities of 
provision. an existing State not dealt with in the foregoing provisions 
of this Part shall— 


(a) if there be only one successor State, pass to that 
State; and 


Part 1 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1875 


SESE ————&—£—=—=E==[=_—_—- 


(b) if there be two or more successor States, he divided 
between them in such manner as they may agree 
before the 18 day of October, 1957, or in default 
of such agreement, be apportioned between them 
in such manner as the Central Government may 
by order direct. 


87. Where by virtue of any ot the provisions of this 
Part, any of the successor States becomes entitled to any 
টির or obtains any benefits or becomes subject to any 
lability, and the Central Government is of opinion, on a 
reference made within a period of three years 17010) the 
appointed day by any State that it is just and equitable 
that that property or those benefits should be  trunsferred 
to or shared with, one or more of the other successor States, 
or that a contribution towards that liability should be made 
by one or more of the other successor States, the said 
property or benefits shall be allocated in such manner, or 
the other successor State or States shal] make to the State 
primarily subject to the liability such contribution in 
respect thereof, as the Central Government may, after con- 
sultation with the State Governments concerned by order 
determine. 


88. All sums payable by the Union to any State or by 
any State to any other State or to the Union by virtue of 
the provisions of this Part shall be charged on the Conso- 
lidated Fund of India or, as the case may be, the Consoli- 
dated Fund of the State by which such sums are payable. 


PART VIII 


APPORTIONMENT OF CERTAIN ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF TIIE 
UNION 


89. In this Part,— 

(a) “existing State’ means any of the existing Part C 
States of Ajmer, Bhopal, Coorg, Kutch and 
Vindhya Pradesh; 

(6) ‘Union og sel mean the purposes of Government 


relatable to any of the matters mentioned in the 
Union List, 


90. Subject to the other provisions of this Part— 

(৫) such of the assets of the Union within an existing 
State as are immediately before the appointed 
day held by the Union for purposes of the 
governance of that State shall, as from that day, 
pass to the successor State, unless the purposes 


for which the assets are so held are Union 
purposes; and ۱ 7 : 
(b) all liabilities of the Union arising out of, or in 


relation to, the governance of an existing State 
shall, as from the appointed day, be liabilities 
of the successor State, unless the liabilities are 
relatable to a Union purpose. 


91, The right to recover arrears of any tax (including 
land revenue) due in an existing State, being a tax 
enumerated in the State List, shall pass to the successor 
State. 


Power of 
the Central 
Govern. 
ment to 
order allo- 
cation or 
adjustment 
in certain 
08804, 


Definitions. 


Passing of 
certain 
asseta and 
liabilities 
of the 
Union to 
successor 
States. 


taxes, 


1876 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY.. AUG. 1, 1956 Parr VI 


তা পচ می‎ 


Loans and 92. The right to recover any loans or advances made 

advances. before the appointed day to any local body, society, agri- 
culturist or other person in an existing Stute shall belong 
to the successur State unless the loan or advance was made 
in connection with a Union purpose. 


Debts due 93. Any debt of an existing State attributable to any 

to Central joan given by the Central Government on or after the Ist 

Govern- ڈول‎ of Apnil, 1954, and outstanding immediately before the 

নিউ appointed day shall be a debt due by the successor State 10 
the (Central Government. 


Provident 94. The liabulty of the Union in respect of the provi- 

Fund. dent fund account of a Government servant serving imnmie- 
diately before the uppointed day in an existing State under 
the administrative control of the J.ieutenant4stovernor or 
Chief Commissioner thereof shall, as from that day, be the 
liability of the successor State: 


Provided that the Central Government shall transfer to 
the successor State funds equal to the liability of the Union 
as on the appointed day. 


Pensions. 95. Where a Government servant under the adininistia- 
tive control of the Lieutenant-Governor or Chief Commis- 
sioner of an existing State has, before the appointed day, 
retired or proceeded on leave preparatory to retirement, any 
outstanding claim in respect of his pension shall be settled 
by the successor State; but the liability in respect of the 
pension sanctioned to any such Government servant, whether 
before or after the appointed day, shall be the liability of 
the Union. 


Contracts. 96. (1) Any contract made before the appointed day by 
the Union in the exercise of its executive power for purposes 
of the governance of an existing State shall, as from that 
day, be deemed to have been made in the exercise of the 
executive power of the successor State, unless the purposes 
of the contract are Union purposes; and all rights aud 
liabilities which have accrued or may accrue under any such 
contract shall, to the extent to wines they would have been 
rights and liabilities of the Union if this Act had not been 
passed, be rights and liabilities of the successor State. 


(2) The provisions of sub-sections (2) and (J) of section 
82 shall apply in relation to any such contract as they apply 
in relation to a contract to which sub-section (1) of that 
section applies. 


PART IX 


PROVISIONS AS TO CERTAIN CORPORATIONS AND INTER-STATE 
AGREEMENTS AND ARRANGEMENTS 


Provisions 97. (4) As from the appointed day, the Financial Cor- 
astocer- porations constituted under the State Financial Corpura- 
রি tions Act, 1951, for the existing States of Bombay, Hyders- 68 of 1981 
cial 
Corpora. bad, Saurashtra and Travancore-Cochin shall be deemed to be 
tions, the Financial Corporations constituted under the said Act 
for the States of Maharashtra, Andhra-Telangana, Gujarat 


and Kerala respectively. 


Part YI] 


Tits CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1877 


2 of 1934. 


©) The State of Maharashtra shall be liable to pay to each 
of the new States of Mysore, Gujarat and Rajasthan and to 
the Central Government on account of its share of the paid- 
up capital of the Financial Corporation for the existing 
State of Bombay such amount os the Central Government 
may by order determine. 


(3) The State of Andhra-Telangana shal] be liable to pay 
to each of the new States of Mysore and Maharashtra on 
account of its share of the paid-up capital of the Financial 
Corporation for the existing State of Hyderabad such 
amount as the Central Government may by order determine. 


(4) The State of Kerala shall be liable to pay to the State 
of Madras on account of its share of the paid-up capital 
of the Financial Corporation for the existing State of 
Travancore-Cochin such amount as the Central Government 
may by order determine. 


88. (7) As from the appointed day, the Madras Indus- 
trial Investment Corporation constituted for the exiatin 
State of Madras shall be deemed to have been constitute 


for that State with its area as altered by the provisions of 
Part ۰ 


(2) The State of Madras shall be liable to pay to each of 
the new States of Kerala and Mysore on account of its shere 
of the paid-up capital of the said Corporation such amuunt 
as the Central Government may by order determine. 


99. With effect from the appointed day, the following 
amendments 817০1] be made in the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934, namely :— 

(7) in section 20,— 

(a) the words and letter “Government of Part A States’ 
shall be omitted; 


(9) for the words ‘‘their accounts respectively’, the 
words ‘‘its account’’ shall substituted; 


(6) for the words ‘‘their exchange’, the words ‘‘its ex- 
change’’ shall be substituted; 


(৫) after the words ‘‘public debt’’, the words “01 the 
Union”’ ৪1911 be inserted; 
(2) in section 21,— 
(a) in sub-section (J),— 
(1) the words ‘‘and the State Governments’’ wherever 
they occur, shall be omitted; 


(17) for the word “their”, at both places where it occurs, 
the word ‘‘its’’ shall be substituted; 

(1) in the proviso, the words ‘‘or any State Govern- 
ment”’ shall be omitted, and for the word “‘they”’, 
the word ‘‘it’’ shall be substituted ; 


(b) in sub-section (2), the words ‘‘and each State Gov- 
ernment’’ shall be omitted; 


Provisions 
as to the 


Amend. 
ment 

of Act 2 of 
1934. 


1878 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [ভা VI 


Provision 
as to cer- 
tain State 
Electricity 
Boards and 
apportion- 
ment of 
their assets 
and liabili- 
ties. 


(c) for sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be 
substituted, namely :— 


‘‘(4) Any agreement made under this section shall be 
laid, as 8001) as may be after it is made, before 
Parliament.’’; and 


(৫) sub-section (5) shall be omitted; 


(3) in sub-section (Z) of section 21-A, the word and 
letter ‘‘Part B’’ shall be omitted: 


(4) after section 21-A, the following section shall be 
inserted, namely :— 


“21-B. (7) Any agreement made under section 21 or 
section 21-۸ between the Bank and the Government of a 
State specified in the Z-zplanation below and in force 
immediately before the Ist day of October, 1956, shall, as 
from that day, have effect as if it were an agreement nade 
on that day under section 21-A between the Bank and the 


Government of the corresponding State, subject to such modi- 0০ 


fications, if any, being of a character not affecting the 
eneral operation of the agreement, as may be agreed upon 
تا‎ the Bank and the Government of the corresponding 
State, or in default of such agreement, as may be made 
therein by order of the Central Government. 


Ezplanation.—In this sub-section ‘‘corresponding State” 
means,— 


(a) in relation to the agreement between the Bank and 
the State of Bombay, the State of Maharashtra; 


(6) in relation to the agreement between the Bank und 
any other Part A State as it existed before the lst day of 
October, 1956, the State with the same name; and 


(c) in relation to the agreement between the Bank and 
the Part B State of Mysore, Saurashtra or Travancore- 
Cochin as it existed before the Ist day of October, 1956, 
the State of Mysore, Gujarat or Kerala respectively. 


(2) Any agreement made under section 21-4 between the 
Bank and the Government of the Part B State of Hyderabad 
or Madhya Bharat shall be deemed to have terminated on 
the 380th day of September, 1956.১,, 


100. (1) The State Electricity Board constituted under 
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, for any of the existing 
States of Bombay, Madhya Pradesh and 98019811670, shall as 
from the appointed day continue to function in those areas 
in respect of which it was functioning immediately before 
that day, subject to the provisions of this section and to such 
directions as may from time to time be issued by the Central 
Government. 


(2) Any directions issued by the Central Government 
under sub-section (1) in respect of any such Board shall in- 
clude a direction that the said Act shall in its application 
to that Board have effect subject to such exceptions and modi- 
fications as the Central Government thinks fit. 


States bo. 
fore the lat 
to 


1956. 


54 of 194: 


Part VI] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1879 
সস 


(3) A State Electricity Board continued under sub-section 
(1) shall cease to function as from, and shall be deemed to 
be dissolved on, the lst day of October, 1957, or such earlier 
date as the Central Government may by order appoint; and 
upon such dissolution, its assets and liabilities shall,— 


(a) in the case of the Board for Saurashtra, pass to the 
State of Gujarat, and 


(b) in the case of the Board for the existing State of Bom- 
bay or Madhya Pradesh, be apportioned between the 
successor States in such manner as may be agreed 47901) 
between them, or if no agreement is reached, in such 
manner as the Central Government may by order determine. 


(4) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section 
shall be construed as preventing the Government of any of 
the successor States to the existing States of Bombay, 
Madhya Pradesh and Saurashtra from constituting at any 
time after the appointed day a State Electricity Board for 
that successor State under the provisions of the said Act; 
and if such a Board is so constituted before the dissolution 
of a Board continued under sub-section (1) and functioning 
in any part of that successor State,— 


(৫) provision may be made by order of the Central (rov- 
ernment enabling the new Board to take over from the exist- 
ing Board all or any of its undertakings, assets and liabilities 
in that State, and 


(9) upon the dissolution of the existing Board, any assets 
and liabilities which would otherwise have passed to the 
successor State by or under the provisions of sub-section (J) 
shall pass to the new Board instead of to the successor State. 


101. If it appears to the Central Government that the 
arrangement in regard to the generation or supply of electric 
power or the supply of water for any area has been or is 
likely to be modified to the disadvantage of that area by 
reason of the fact that it has been transferred by the provi- 
sions of Part II from the State controlling the power stations 
and other installations for the generation and supply of ১001) 
power, or the catchment area reservoirs and other works for 
the supply of water, as the case may be, the Central Govern- 
ment may give such directions as it deems proper to the 
State Government or other authority concerned for the main- 
tenance, so far as practicable, of the previous arrangement. 


102, (Z) Any agreement or arrangement entered into 
between the Central Government and one or more existing 
States or between two or more existing States relating to— 


(a) the administration, maintenance and operation of 
any project executed before the appointed day, or 


(6) the distribution of benefits, such as, the right to 
receive and utilise water or electric power, to be 
derived as a result of the execution of such 
project, 

which was subsisting immediately before the appointed day 
shall continue in force, subject to such adaptations and modi- 
fications, 11 any (being of a character not affecting the 


regard to 
শিব 
and supply 
of এ? 
power and 
supply of 
water. 


irrigation 
power or 
multi- 
purpose 
projects. 


1880 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 6 [Ranr VI 
উপ পপ 
encral operation of the agreement or arrangement) as may 
4 agreed upon between the Central Government and the 
successor State concerned or between the successor Stutes 
concerned, as the case may be, by the Ist day of April, 1957, 
or, if no agreement is reached by the said date, as may be 
made therein by order of the Central Government. 


(2) Where a project concerning one or more of the exist- 
ing States affected by the provisions of Part II has been 
taken in hand, but not completed, or has been accepted by 
the Government of India for inclusion in the Second Five- 
Year Plan before the appointed day, neither the scope of the 
project nor the provisions relating to its administration, 
Maintenance or operation or to the distribution of benefits 
to be derived from it shall be varied,— 


(9) in the case where a single successor State is concerned 
with the project after the appointed day, except 
with the previous approval of the Central Govern- 
ment, and 


(b) in the case where two or more successor States are 
concerned with the project after that day, except 
by agreement between those successor States, or 
if no agreement is reached, except in such manner 
as the Central Government may by order direct, 


and the Central Government may from time to time g:ve 
such directions as may appear to it to be necessary for the 
due completion of the project and for its administration, 
maintenance and operation thereafter. 


(3) In this section, the expression ‘‘project’’ means a 
project for the promotion of irrigation, water supply or 
drainage or for the development of electric power or for the 
regulation or development of any inter-State river or river 
valley. 


Provisions 103. (Z) The road transport corporation established | 
asto the under the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950, for the 64 of 1960 
নন existing State of Bombay shall, as from the appointed day, 
Transport COntinue to function and operate in those areas in respect of 
Corpora. which it was functioning and operating immediately before 
tion. that day, subject to the provisions of sub-section 0 and to 

such directions as may from time to time be issued by the 

Central Government: 


Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be 
construed as preventing any of the successor States to the 
existing State of Bombay from establishing a road transport 
corporation under the said Act for the whole or any part 
of its territories after the appointed day. 


(2) Any directions issued by the Central Government 
under sub-section (Z) in respect of the said corporation 51,811 
include a direction that the said Act shall in its application 
to that corporation have effect subject to such exceptions and 
modifications as may be specified in the direction. 


(3) The road transport corporation continued under sub- 
section (1) shall cease to function and shall be deemed to be 
dissolved on the lst day of October, 1957, or such earlier date 
as the Central Government may by order appoint. 


part VI] 


৯০ - 
পাচার 


& of 1939. 


THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1946 


(4) On such dissolution the assets and liabilities of the 
said operation shall be apportioned between the successor 
States in such manner ae in such proportion as the Central 
Government may by order determine. 


104. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 
63 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, a permit granted by the 
State or a Regional Transport Authority in an existing 
State, the whole or any part of the territories of which 1s 
transferred to another existing State or to a new State ghall, 


if such permit was, immediately before the appointed day, i 


valid and effective in any area in the territories so transferred, 
be deemed to continue to be valid and effective in that crea 
after that day subject to the provisions of that Act as for 
the time being in force in that area; and it shall not be 
necessary for any such permit to be countersigned by any 
other State or Regional Transport Authority for the purpose 
of validating it for use in such transferred territories: 


Provided that the Central Government may, after cun- 
sultation with the Stute Government or Governments con- 
cerned, add to, amend or vary the conditions attached to the 
permit by the Authority by which the permit was granted. 


(2) No tolls, entrance fees or other charges of a like 
nature shall be levied after the appointed day in respect of 
any transport vehicle for its operations in any transferred 
territory under any such permit, if such vehicle was, 
immmediately before that day, exempt from the payment 
of any such toll, entrance fees or other charges for its 
operations beyond the boundaries of the State in which such 
permit was granted: 


Provided that the Central Government may, after con- 
sultation with the State Government or (tovernments con- 
cerned, authorise the levy of any such toll, entrance fees or 
other churges, as the case may be. 


105. The Central Government may, in respect of the 
institutions of the categories specified in the Sixth Schedule 
located in a new State or in the State of Andhra-Telangana 
or Madras, direct that such facilities shall be provided to the 
Government ond the people of one or more adjoining States 
for such period and upon such terms and conditions as way 
he agreed upon between the State Governments concerned 
before the 3lst day of December, 1956, or, if no agreement 
is reached by the said date, as may he fixed by order of the 
Central Giovernment. 


PART X 
PROVISIONS AS TO SERVICES 


106. (1) In this section, the expression ‘‘State cadre’’— 


(a) in relation to the Indian Administrative Service, has 
the meaning assigned to it in the Indian Administrative 
Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, and 


_ (b) in relation to the Indian Police Service, has the mean- 
8ت‎ 0 to it in the Indian Police Service (Cadre) Rules, 
04. 


1881 


aoe eae 


Tom porary 
provisions 
as to the 
continue 


00. 
ance of 
facilities in 
certain 
State insti. 
tutions. 


Provisions 
rolating to 
All-India 
Services, 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 {Part 1‏ 1882 
ےسےسعجسجسژبے ےس سس سسسسجصجسجححح عطےہشع۔سمس مسسس‌‌س-- سس بل a‏ 


)8( As from the appointed day, there shall be constituted 
for each of the new States a State cadre of the Indian 
Administrative Service and a State cadre of the Indian 
Police Service. 


(3) The initia] strength and composition of each of the 
said cadres shall be such as the Central Government may be 
order determine before the appointed day. 


(4) The cadres of each of the said services for the ٤۰ 
ing States of Bombay, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab aud 
Vindhya Pradesh and for the existing Part B States shall, 
as from the appointed day, cease to exist, and the mempera 
of each of the said services borne on those cadres shall be 
allocated to the State cadres of the same service for the other 
existing States or for the new States in such manner and 
with اللہ‎ from such date or dates as the Central Govern- 
ment may by order specify. 


(5) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the 
operation after the appointed day of the All-India Services 
Act, 1951, or the rules made thereunder in relation to the 61 of 1981. 
State cadres of the said services constituted under sub-section 
(2) and in relation to the members of those services borne 
on the said cadres. 


Provisions 107. (1) Every person who immediately before the 
relating to দল day 1s serving in counection with the affairs of 
রা Ser- the Union under the administrative control of the Lieutenant- 


(iovernor or Chief Commissioner in any of the existing 
States of Ajmer,” Bhopal, Coorg, Kutch and Vindhya 
Pradesh, or is serving in connection with the affairs of any 
of the existing States of Mysore, Punjab, Putiala and Rast 
Punjab States Union and Saurashtra shall, as from that day, 
be deemed to have been allotted to serve in connection with 
the affairs of the successor State to that existing State. 


(4) Every person who immediately before the appointed 
day 18 serving in connection with the affairs of an existing 
State part of whose territories is transferred to another State 
by the provisions of Part II shall, as from that day, pro- 
visionally continue to serve in connection with the affairs 
of the principal successor State to that existing State, unless 
he is required by general or special order of the Central 
Government to serve provisionally in connection with the 
affairs of any other successor State. 


(3) As soon as may be after the appointed day, the 
Central Government shall, by general or special order, 
determine the successor State to which every person referred 
to in sub-section (2) shall be finally allotted for service und 
the date with effect from which such allotment shall 110 
effect or be deemed to have taken effect. 


(৫) Every person who is finally allotted under the pro- 
visions of sub-section (3) to a successor State shall, if he is 
not already serving therein be made available for serving in 
that successor State from such date as may be agreed apon 
between the Governments concerned, and in default of such 
agreement, as may be determined by the Central Govern- 
ment. 


part VI] 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1883 


লিজ RE 


(5) The Central Government muy by order establish one 
or more Advisory Committees for the purpose of assisting it 
in regard to— 


(a) the determination of the final allotment of persous 
under the provisions of sub-section (J); 


(6) the proper integration of the services and their divi- 
sion among the States of Andhra-Telangana and Madras and 
the new States; and 


(c) the ensuring of fair and equitable treatment to ৪1) 
persons affected by the provisions of this section and the 
proper consideration of any representations made by snch 
persons. 


(6) The foregoing provisions of this section shall not 
upply in relation to any person to whom the provisions of 
section 106 apply. 


(7) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect after the 
appointed day the operation of the provisions of Chapter [ of 
Part XIV of the Constitution in relation to the determination 
of the conditions of service of persons serving in connection 
with the affairs of the Union or any State: 


Provided that the conditions of service applicable 
immediately before the appointed day to the case of any 
person who is required under this section to serve, as from 
that day, in connection with the affairs of any State shall 
not be varied to his disadvantage except with the previous 
approval of the Central Government. 


108, (1) Every person who immediately before the 
appointment day is holding or discharging the হা of any 
post or office in connection with the affairs of the Union or 
of an existing State in any area which on that day falls 
within another existing State or a new State or in a Union 
territory shall, except where under the provisions of this 
Act or any other law for the time being in force such post 
or office ceases to exist on that day, continue to hold the 
same or a corresponding post or office in the other existing 
State or new State or Union territory in which such area 1s 
included on that day, and shall be deemed as from that day 
to have been duly appointed to such post or office by the 
Government of, or other appropriate authority in, such 
State, or by the Central Government or other appropriate 
authority in such Union territory, as the case may be. 


(2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent a 
competent authority, after the appointed day, from passing 
in relation to any such person any order affecting his conti- 
nuance jn such post or office. 


108. The Central Government may at any time before or 
after the appointed day give such directions to any State as 
may appear to it to be necessary for the purpose of giving 
effect to the foregoing provisions of this Part. 


Provisions 
as to conti- 
nuance of 
officers in 
the same or 
correspond- 
ing poste. 


Power of 
Central 
vern- 
ment to 
give ۰ 
tions, 


1884 TITE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1946 [Part VI 
সিল 


Provisions 110. (1) The Public Service Commissions for the exist- 

as to Stato ing Statea of Mysore,, Punjab, Rajasthan and Travancore- 

diy a Cochin shal], as from the appointed day, be deemed to he 

missions, the Public Service Commissions for the corresponding new 
States. 


(2) As from the appointed day, the Public Service Com- 
missions for the existing States of Bombay, Hyderabad, 
Madhva Bharat, Madhya Pradesh, Patiala and Kast Punjab 
States Union and Saurashtra shall cease to exist. 


(3) Every person holding office immediately before the 
appointed day as chairman or other member of any of the 
Commissions mentioned in sub-section (2) shall become a 
member, and if so specified, also the chairman, of such one 
of the Public Service Commissions constituted for the States 
of Andhra-Telangana, (Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maha- 
rashtra, Punjab and Mysore as the President shall by order 
specify. 

(4) Every person who becomes a member of a Public 
Service Commission on the appointed day under sub-section 
(1) or sub-section (3) shall, subject to the proviso to clause 
(2) of article 316, hold office or continue to hold office until 
the expiration of his term of office as determined under the 
Tacha applicable to him immediately before the appointed 

ay. 
PART XI 
LEGAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 


Territorial 111. The provisions of Part II shall not be deemed to 

extent of have effected any change in the territories to which any law 

laws. in force immediately ا‎ the appointed day extends or 
applies, and territorial references in any such law to an 
existing State shall, until otherwise provided by a competent 
Legislature or other competent authority, be construed as 
meaning the territories within that State immediately 
before the appointed day. 


Power to 112. For the purpose of facilitating the application of 

adapt laws. any law in relation to any of the States or Union territories 
formed or territorially altered by the provisions of Part IL, 
the appropriate Government may, before the expiration of 
one year from the appointed day, by order make such 
adaptations and modifications of the law, whether by way of 
repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient, and 
thereupon every such law shall have effect subject to the 
adaptations and modifications so made until altered, 
repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other 
competent authority. 


Explanation.—In this section, the expression ‘‘appro- 
priate Government’’ means— 


(a) as respects any law relating to a matter enumerated 
in the Union List, the Central Government; and 
(5) وہ‎ respects any other law,— 


(1) in nn to a State, the State Government, 
an 


(1) in its application to a Union territory, the Central 
Government. 


Part VI} THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1885 
4 


পপ ce লে রা REA এল ॥ এ LC در .وہر کیا‎ AR ag PP جب کے‎ oe ee ہے و‎ পা 


113, Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient Power to 
provision has heen made under section 112 for the adapta- 55 
tion of a law made before the appointed day, any court, ۰۰ 
tribunal or authority required or empowered to enforce such 

law may, for the purpose of facilitating its application in 
relation to any State or Union territory formed or territo- 

rially altered by the provisions of Part II, construe the law 

with such alterations not affecting the substance as may be 
necessary or proper to adapt it to the matter before the court, 
tribunal or authority. 


114. The Central Government, as respects any Union Power to 
territory, and the State Government as respects any new name au- 
State or any transferred territory, may by notification in the 7ت‎ 
Official Gazette, specify the authority, officer or person who, eyerciang 
as from the appointed day, shall be competent to exercise statutory 
such functions exercisable under any law in force on that funotions. 
day as may be mentioned in that notification and such law 
shall have effect accordingly, 


115, Where immediately before the appointed day, the Legal pro- 
Union or an existing State is a party to any legal proceed- ceedings. 
ings with respect to any property, rights or liabilities 
subject to apportionment under this Act, the successor State 
which succeeds te, or acquires a share in, that property or 
those rights or liabilities by virtue of any provision of this 
Act shall be deemed to be substituted for the Union or the 
existing State as a party to those proceedings, or added as a 
party thereto, as the case may be, and the proceedings may 
continue accordingly. 


116. (J) Every proceeding pending immediately before Provisions 
the appointed day before a court (other than a High Court), مہ‎ to cer- 
tribunal, authority or officer— tain pend- 

ing pro- 

(a) in any area which on that day 18118 within a State 0 
shall, if it is a proceeding relating exclusively to any part 
of the territories which as,from that day are the territories 
of another State or become Union territory, stand transferred 
to the corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer in 
the other State or the Union territory, as the case may be; 
and 


(5) in any area which on that day falls within any Union 
territory shall, if it is a proceeding relating exclusively to 
any part of the territories which as from that day are the 
territories of a State, stand transferred to the corresponding 
court, tribunal, authority or officer in that State. 


(2) If any question arises as to whether any proceeding 
should stand transferred under sub-section (J), it shall be 
referred for the decision of the Chief Justice of the High 
Court having jurisdiction in respect of the area in which the 
court, tribunal, authority or officer before which or whom 
such proceeding is pending on the appointed day, is func- 
tioning and the decision of such Chief Justice shall be final. 


1886 


পাশ TS 


Declaration 
of certain 
ancient 
monuments 
etc., in Part 
0 States to 
be of na- 
tional im- 
portance. 


Effect of 
the provi- 
gions of the 
Act incon. 
sistent with 
other laws. 
Power to 


remove 
difficulties. 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY.. AUG. 1, 1956 


(3) In this section— 
(a) ‘‘proceeding’’ includes any suit, case or appeal; and 


(b) “corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer’’ 
in relation to a State or Union territory means— 


(i) the court, tribunal, authority or officer in which or 
before whom the proceeding would have lain if 
the proceeding had been instituted after the 
appointed day, or 


(it) in case of doubt, such court, tribunal, authority or 
officer in the Union territory or in the State as 
may be determined before the appointed day by 
the President or, as the case may be, by the 
Governor of the corresponding State, and after 
the appointed day by the President or, as the case 
may be, by the Governor of that State, to be the 
corresponding court, tribunal, authority or officer. 


117. (1) All ancient and historical monuments in Part 
C States which, before the lst day of April, 1956, have either 
been declared by the Central Government to be protected 
monuments within the meaning of the Ancient Monuments 
Preservation Act, 1904, or which have been taken possession 
of by the Central Government as protected monuments are 
hereby declared to be ancient and historical monuments of 
national importance. 


(2) All archaeological sites and remains in Part C States 
which, before the Ist day of April, 1956, have either been 
declared by the Central Government to be protected areas or 
which have been taken possession of by the Central Gov- 
ernment as protected areas are কি ক declared to be 
archaeological sites and remains of national importance. 


(3) With effect from the appointed day, the following 
amendments shall be made in the Ancient and Historical 
Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Declara- 
tion of National Importance) Act, 1951, namely :— 


(a) in the long title, the words and letters ‘‘in Part A 
States and Part B States’ shall be omitted; and 


(b) in the Schedule, in item I of Part I and item I of 
Part II, for the words and letters ‘‘in Part A States and 
Part B States which, before the commencement of this Act’’ 
the words and figures ‘‘which, before the lst day of April, 
1956” shall be substituted. 


118. The provisions of this Act shall have effect not- 
withstanding onything inconsistent therewith contained in 
any other law. 


119. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provi- 
sions of this Act, the President may by order do anything 
not inconsistent with such provisions which appear to him 
to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the 
difficulty. 


[Pant 1 


7 of 1904. 


71 of 1951. 


Pant VI] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 6 1887 


120. (1) The Central Government may, by notification Power to 
in the Official Gazette, make rules to give effect to the pro- rake rules. 
visions of this Act. 


(2) All rules made under this section shall be laid before 
both Houses of Parliament as soon as may be after they 


are ۰ 
121. (7) The Government of Part C States Act, 1951, Repeal of 
is repealed with effect from the appointed day. rani of 


0 The said repeal shall not affect any laws made by the 
Legislature of a Part 0 State by virtue of any power con- 
ferred on that Legislature by the Act so repealed, and all 
such laws in force immediately before the appointed day 
shall continue in force, subject to such adaptations and 
modifications as may be made therein under section 112, 
until altered, stain, রী or amended by a competent Legis- 
lature or other competent authority. 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
{See section 26(2)] 


Every sitting member representing a constituency 
specified in the first column of the Table below in the Legis- 
lative Assembly of the existing State specified against it 
in the second column shall, as from the appointed day, be 
deemed to have heen elected to the Legislative Assembly of 
the State specified against that constituency in the third 
column and cease to be a member of the إم سو‎ Assembly 
of which he was a member immediately before that day. 


TABLE 
Name of Constituency. Existing State. State to which 
transferred. 
(1) (2) (3) 
1. Palanpur-Abu- Bombay .. -« Gujarat. 
Vadagem-Danta. 
2. Thana .. Bombay *০ ee Maharashtra. 
8. Chandgad .. Bombay .. «>» Maharashtra. 
4. Halsur ». Hyderabad .. Maharashtra. 
5. Udgir .. Hyderabad .. Maharashtra. 
6. Kodangal .. Hyderabad .. Andhra-Telangana. 
7. Tendur-Seram .. Hyderabad .. Mysore. 
8. Bhanpura .. Madhye Bharat .. Madhya Pradesh. 
9. Chevvayur -. Medras ,. »» Kerala. 
10. Panemangalore .. Madras .. .. Mysoro. 
11. Shencotta ». Travanoore-Cochin Madras. 
12. Punalur .. Travancore-Cochin Kerala. 


18. Pathanapuram .. Travancore-Cochin .. Kerala. 


1888 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY,, AUG. 1, 1956 


[Part VI 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
[See section 32(2) | 
Mopirications In THE DeximiratTion or Counc, 
CONSTITUENCIES (MADRAS) OnpDER, 1961 


In the Table— 

(a) for the entry relating to the Madras ((iraduates) 
Constituency, substitute: — 

‘Madras (Graduates) Entire State 4’’; 

(b) for the entry in the second column relating to the 
Madras (Teachers) Constituency, substitute ‘“‘Emtire State”’ 

(c) in the third ae for the figure “911 wherever it 
occurs, substitute ‘'4’’; 


(৫) omit the entry clits to the West Coast (Local 
Authorities) Constituency. 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
(See section 37) 


ALLOCATION OF SEATS IN THE 1000৩ oF THE PEOPLE AND 
ASSIGNMENT OF SEaTs TO STATE LFGISLATIVE ASSEMBLIES 


The number of seats in the House of the People to be 
aHetted to each of the States and Union territories and the 
number of seats to be assigned to the Legislative Assembly 
of each State other than Jammu and Kashmir shall be as 
shown in the following Table: — 


TABLE 

Number of seate Number of seats 

States. in the House of in the Legisla- 

the People. tive Assembly. 
1. Andhra-Telangana 7 43 301 
2. Assam.. or os 12 108 
3. Bihar .. a 7 55 330 
4. Gujarat সর i 22 64 
5. Kerala os ১৪ 18 128 
6. Madhya Pradesh * ar 36 288 
7. Madras oe 7 41 205 
8. Maharashtra 7 و‎ 40 20 
9. Mysore a 7 26 182 
10. Orissa .. - 7 20 149 
11. Punjab ্ oe 22 154 
12. Rajasthan i es 22 176 
13. Uttar Pradesh... i 86 430 
14. West Bengal ms és 34 238 


15. Jammu and Kashmir one 6 


Part VI] 


eS রী রি 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


Union Terrstortes, 
Bombay 
Delhi .. 
Himachal Pradesh 
Manipur 


Tripura 


THE FOURTH SCHEDULE 
(See section 70) 


I. Mopir1ep FORM OF SECTION 3 oF THE UNION 


Number of seats 


in the House of 


the People. 


ewp 65 ৮৯ শষ 


Numbor of 89908 
in the Logislative 
Assembly. 


DUTIES 


or Exctse (Disrrisviion) Act, 1953 


(7) During the first half of the financial 
mencing on the Ist day of April, 1956, there shall be paid 
out of the Consolidated Fund of India to each of the States 
specified in column 1 of the Table below such percentage of 
the distributable Union duties of excise as 1s set out against 
it in column 2: 


Andhra 

Assam & ৪ 
Bihar 

Bombay 
Hyderabad 
Madhya Bharat 
Madhya Pradesh 
Madras 

Mysoro 


Orissa 


TABLE 


Patisla and East Punjab States Union 


Punjab 
Rajasthan 


Saurashtra 


Travancore-Cochin 


Uttar Pradesh 
Weat Bengal .. 


ear com- 


Percentage. 
6:92 
21 

60- 11 
37- 10 
39 5 
209 
63 
00 
ك2 
42 
00- 1 
66 3 
]4-4 


1889 


সপ সপ 


Distnbu- 
tion of a 
art of the 
nion du- 
ties of ex- 
cise among 
the States. 


1890 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


[Part VI 


A nner | 


(2) During the second half of the said financial year, 
there shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India 
to each of the States specified in column 1 of the Table 
below such percentage of the distributable Union duties of 
excise as is set out against it in column 2 and such addi- 
tional percentage, if any, of the said duties as is set out 
against it in column 3 


TABLE 
State. Percentage. Additional 
percentages. 
Andhra-Telangana *, = 9 -03 
Assam sg, os এ 2 +61 
1১1 ہ.‎ -7 11 -60 
Gujarat... ے0‎ = 87 1-19 
Kerala, 7 ক 19 2 +42 
Madhya Pradesh .. 7 65 
Madras ., ay ৪৪ 8 9 0:26 
Maharashtra -: =F 8 87 
Mysoro .. - 281 24 
Orissa. 7 42 
Punjab... 7 bs 4-66 
Rajasthan oe oe 4-40 
Uttar Pradesh 7 oe 1828 
West Bengal a ও 7.16 


II. Moptrrep FORM OF PARAGRAPHS 3 AND 6 OF THE 
Constitution (DisTRIsvTION or ReEvENuBS) OxveEr, 1963 


8. (1) For the purposes of clause (2) of article 270, the 
proceeds attributable to Part C States for the first half, 
and to Union territories for the second half, of the financial 
year commencing on the Ist day of April, 1956 shall be taken 
to be 23 per cent. and 2 per cent., respectively, of 60 much 
of the net proceeds of taxes on income for the half year as 
does not represent the net proceeds of taxes payable in respect 
of Union emoluments. 


(2) The percentage of the net proceeds of taxés on 
income, except in so far as those proceeds represent proceeds 
attributable to Part C States or to taxes payable in respect 
of Union emoluments, which is to be assigned to Part A 
States and Part B States (other than the State of Jammu 
and Kashmir) under clause (2) of article 270 in the first 
half of the said financial year shall be 66 per cent.; and 


Part VI] 


THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1891 


year shall be 55 per cent. ; 


State. 
Andhra 
Assam 
Bihar 
Bombay 
Hyderabad 
Madhya Bharat 
Madhya Pradosh 
Madras 
Mysore 
Orissa as 7 ও 
Patiala and East Punjab States Union 
Punjab 
Rajasthan ১৭ 7 
Saurashtra 
Travancore-Cochin 
Uttar Pradesh oe as 
West Bengal .. 


State. Percentage. 
Andhra-Telangana § 9 
Assam sis 7 ٠ 2°26 
Bihar -۰ a 7 9°75 
Gujarat 6:02 
Kerala 1 +38 
Madhya Pradesh 5 +14 
Madras .. 7°79 
Maharashtra 11 -85 
Mysore 3°77 
Orissa sis ss 8:80 
Punjab 4-00 
Rajasthan & ৪ ٠ 381 
Uttar Pradesh 1676 
Weat Bengal ٠ ve 1] +25 


the total amount to be so assigned shall be distributed among 
the said States as follows :— 


Percentage. 


5-49 
226 
9.76 
87:50 
40 
15 
5م 
06 9 
25 
8:59 
0°75 
3°25 
50+ 3 
00- 1 
0 2 
16:76 
25- 11 


(3) The percentage of the net proceeds of the taxes on 
income, except in so far as those proceeds represent proceeds 
attributable to Union territories or the taxes payable in 
respect of Union emoluments which is to be assigned to 
States (other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir) under 
clause (2) of article 270 in the second half of the said financial 
and the total amount to be so 
assigned shall be distributed among the said States as 
follows :— 


Additional 
percentage. 


1892 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 ] "خ7‎ VI 
০১১১১ nearer 
(4) For the purposes of this paragraph, the net proceeds 
of taxes on income for each half of the said financial year 
shall be deemed to be one-half of the net proceeds of such 
taxes for that year. 


5. (1) In accordance with the provisions of clause (2) 
of article 275, there shall be charged on the Consolidated 
Fund of India— 


_ (a) in the first half of the said financial year, as grants- 
in-nid of the revenues of each of the States specified Sie, 
the sum specified against it: 


(1) For general purposes— 


Assam a. -. 50 lakha of rupees. 
Mysore a .. 20 lakhs of rupees. 
Orissa 7 .. 87۰65 lakhs of rupees. 
Punjab 7 .. 62۰6 lakhs of rupees. 
Saurashtra i .. 20 lakhs of rupees. 
Travancore-Cu hin -. 22°65 lakhs of rupees. 
West Bengal .. »» 40 lakhs of rupees. 


(৫1) For the expansion of primary education— 


Bihar ۰7 .. 4] 5 lakhs of .968م‎ 
Hyderabad ٠ ». 20 lakhs of rupees. 
Madhya Bharat .. 9 lakhs of rupees. 
Madhya Pradesh .. 25 lakhs of rupees. 
(07188 »» 16 lakhs of rupees. 


Patiala and East Punjeb 4:5 Iakhe of rupecs. 
States Union. 
Punjab 7 .. 44 lakhs of rupees. 


Rajasthan as .» 20 lakhs of rupees. 


(b) in the second half of the said financial year, as grante- 
in-aid of the revenues of each of the States specified below, 
the sum specified against it: 


(2) For general purposes— 


Assam ee ۰. 60 lakhs of rupees. 
Mysore ٠ .. 20 lakhs of rupees, 
Orissa = .. 817۰-5 lakhs of rupees. 
Punjab 7 .. 62-50 lakhs of rupees 
Gujarat 7 .. 20 lakhs of rupees. 
Kerala ne .- 20-32 lakhs of rupees, 
Madras 7 .. 2°18 lakhs of rupees, 


Wost Bongal .. .. 40 lakhs of rupees. 


Parr VI] 


of 1953. 


THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 


1893 


(it) For the expansion of primary education— 


Bihar ee .ےم‎ 41°50 lakhs of rupees. 
Andhra-Telangana .. 11-55 lakhs of rupees. 
Mysore ৬৪ «. 2°89 lakhs of rupoes. 

Maharashtra si. ». 14°52 lakhs of rupees. 
Madhya Pradesh .ےم‎ 26-17 lakhs of rupees. 
Orissa Fe .. 16-00 lakhs of rupees. 
Punjab টি -. 18-50 lakhs of rupees. 
Rajasthan 7 .. 19۰47 lakha of rupees. 


(2) There shall also be charged on the Consolidated 
Fund of India— 


(৫) in the first half of the said financial year, as grants- 
in-aid of each of the States of Mysore, Saurashtra and 
Travancore-Cochin, the sum by which the total of the 
amounts payable to that State under sub-paragraph (2) of 
paragraph 3 of this Order and under sub-section (Z) of 
section 9 of the Union Duties of Excise (Distribution) Act, 
1953 falls short of 172-5 lakhs of rupees, 187۰5 lakhs of 
rupees and 140 lakhs of rupees, respectively; and 


(b) in the second half of the said financial year, as 
grants-in-aid of each of the States of Mysore, Gujarat, 
Kerala and Madras, the sum by which the total of the 
amounts payable to that State as additional percentages 
under sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 3 of this Order and 
under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the said Act falls short 
of ۱۲2۰6 Jakhs of rupees, 137-5 lakhs of rupees, 126-45 lakhs 
of rupees and 13-56 lakhs of rupees, respectively. 


(3) Any sum or sums payable under this paragraph shall 
be in addition to any sum or sums payable to the States 
under each of the provisos to clause (1) of article 2765. 


THE FIFTH SCHEDULE 
(See section 81) 
APPORTIONMENT OF LIABILITY IN RESPECT OF PENSIONS 


1. Subject to the adjustments mentioned in paragraph 3, 
the successor State or each of the successor States shall, in 
respect of pensions granted before the appointed day hy an 
existing State, pay the pensions drawn 1n its treasuries. 


2. Subject to the said adjustments, the liability i in respect 
of pensions of officers serving in connection with the affaira 
of an existing State who retire or proceed on leave prepara- 
tory to retirement before the appointed day, but whose a ea 
for pensions are outstanding immediately before that day, 
shall be the hability of the successor State, or, if there be 
two or more successor States, of such one of them as the 
Central Government may by order specify. 


3. In any case where there are two or more successor 
States, there shall be computed, in respect of the second half 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY.. AUG. 1, 1956 


| Part VI 


of the financial year 1956-57 and in respect of each subse- 
quent financial year, the total payments made in all the 
successor States in respect of the pensions referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 2. That total representing the Jiability 
of the existing State in respect of pensions shal] be appor- 
tioned between the successor States in-the population ratio, 
and any successor State paying more than its ঠা share shal] 
be reimbursed the excess amount by the successor State or 
States paying less. 


4 (1) The lability in respect of the pension of any 
officer serving immediately before the appointed day in con- 
nection with the affairs of an existing State and retiring on 
or after that day, shall be that of the successor State grant- 
ing the pension; but the portion of the pension attributable 
to the service of any a officer before the appointed day 
In connection with the affairs of that existing State shall, 
if there be two or more successor States, be allocated between 
them in the population ratio, and the Government granting 
the pension shall be entitled to receive from each of the 
other successor States its share of this liability. 


(2) If any such officer was serving after the appointed 
day in connection with the affairs of more than one successor 
State, the successor State or States other than the one 
granting the pension shall reimburse to the Government by 
which the pension is granted an amount which bears to the 


portion of the pension attributable to his service after the 


appointed day the same ratio as the period of his qualifying 
service ufter the appointed day under that successor State 
bears to the total qualifying service of such officer after the 
appointed day reckoned for the purposes of pension. 


(3) In reckoning the said total qualifying service, any 
service of such officer before the appointed day in connec- 
tion with the affairs of the Union under the administrative 
control of the Lieutenant Governor or Chief Commissioner 
in any of the existing States of Ajmer, Bhopal, Cvorg, 
Kutch and Vindhya Pradesh shall be added os if the said 
service had been service after the appointed day in connec- 
و‎ with the affairs of the successor State to that existing 

ate. 


9. Any reference in this Schedule to a pension shall be 
construed as including a reference to the commuted value 
of the pension. 


THE SIXTH SCHEDULE 
(See section 105) 


(1) Engineering Colleges and Schools of Technology. 
(2) Medical Colleges. 
(3) Veterinary Colleges. 


(4) Government hospitals providing for special treatment, 
auch as, 


(i) tuberculosis hospitals and sanatoria, 
(11) cancer hospitals, 


Pant ۱ THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1805 
سے سے سے سے‎ | 


(111) radium institutes, 

(iv) mental hospitals, 

(v) leprosy hospitals and sanatorin, and 
(vi) hospitals providing tor Unani or Ayurvedic treatment. 
(5) Research Institutes, such as, 

(1) irrigation research institutes, 

(11) (tovernment analysts’ departments, and 
(111) serum institutes. 
(6) Central Jails. 
(7) Borstal Schools aud Certified Schools. 
(8) Police Training Colleges and Institutes. 
(9) Fire Services Training Schools. 


(10) Hostels for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and 
Backward Classes. 


1596 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 |Paxt VJ 


nn RR SSA See صمجیًٗٔمپیکہکہکیژ‎ 
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


The States of Tudia, as they exist today have been formed largely as a 
result of historical aveidents and cireumstunces, and there has, theretore, 
been a demand jor the reorganisation 01 the component units of the Indian 
Union on a more rational basis, after taking mito account not only the 
growing importance 01 the regional Janyzuages, but also financial, economic, 
and administrative considerations. The States Reorganisation Commission 
was accordingly constituted in December, 1953, to investigate the con- 
ditions of this problem, the bistorical background, the existing situation, 
and all other relevant factors, and to recommend the principles which 
could be considered uppropriate as well og the broad lines on which parti- 
culur States should be reorganized. The Commission reported on Septem- 
ber 30, 1955. The اما‎ contained in the report and the matters 
connected therewith have received attention all over the country and have 
been discussed im Parliament and State legislatures. This Hall seeks to 
give effect to the scheme of reorganisation which has emerged as a result 
of these discussions. 


The main features of the reorganisation proposed are the abolition of 
the existing constitutional distinction between Part A, Part B and Part 
C States, the establishment of two categories for the component units of 
the Union, to be called States and Union territories, and the abolition of 
the institution of the Rajpramukh consequent on the disappearance of the 
Part B States. In this Bill, it is proposed to provide for the transfer of 
the Telaniana area of Hyderabad to Andhra and the renaming of 
the enlarged State, the transfer of certain areas from Travancore-Cochin 
to Madras, the forming of the new States of Kerala, Mysore, Maharashtra 
and (tujarat, the merger of Madhya Bharat, Vindhya Pradesh and Bhopal 
with the Mahakosal area of Madhya Pradesh, the merger of Ajmer with 
Rajasthan and the merger of the Patiala and Kast Punjab States Union 
with Punjab. Bombay, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, and 
the Andaman and Nicobar Islands will become Union territories. The 
Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi islands will also be treated as a Union 
territory. In view of the proposal for the amalgamation of Bihar and 
West Bengal which is under consideration, no provision has been made in 
this Bill for any territorial adjustments between these two States. 


The Bill makes the nevessary supplementa] and incidental provisions 
relating to representation in Parliament and in’ the State legislatures, 
establishment of High Courts, apportionment of assets and liabilities and 
other matters. It also makes provision for the setting up of five Zonal 
Youncils which will be advisory bodies, competent to discuss matters of 
common interest, particularly in the field of economic and social planning. 


As required by the proviso to article 3 of the Constitution, this Bill was 
referred by the President on the 16th March, 1956, to the legislatures of 
the 12 Part A and Part B States affected by the scheme of reorganisation, 
and they were given one month’s time for expressing their views. Except 
in the case of Travancore-Cochin, whose Legislative Assembly has since 
been dissolved by proclamation of the President, the views of the legisla- 
tures of all the other States have been received and will be placed before 
Parliament for its consideration. = 


New :1لا‎ GOVIND BALLABH PANT 
The 14th April, 1966. 


Pare, VI] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1897 


Notes on clauses 


Clause 2, Sub-clause (1).—The ‘‘new’ States ure Kerala, Mysore, 
Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pindesh, Rajasthan and Punjab tormed, 
respectively, under cluuses 5, 7 und 9 to 13 of this Bill in pursuance of 
cliuse (a) of article 3 ot the Constitution. 


Sub-clause (k).—The 9৯1১1688101) “population ratio’ is used only im 
relation to an existing State which has two or more successor States as 
defined in sub-clause (0). Thus, the existing State of Hyderabad will have 
(hree successor Stutes, namely, the States of Andhra-Telangana, Muana- 
rashtra and Mysore. In relation to that existing State, the population 
ratio will be the ratio in which the census population of that State 15 
distributed territorially among those three successor States, or to express it 
in symbols, it will be A:B:C, where A is the census population of the 
territory transferred from Hyderabad to Andhra-Telangana under clause 3, 
]) is the census population of the territory transferred from Hyderabad to 
Muharashtra ol clause 9(1)(b) and © is the census population of the 
territury transferred from Hyderabad to Mysore under clause 7(1)(c), ‘Lhe 
definition requires the Central Government to ascertain, in due course, the 
population ratio in all relevant cases and notify them in the Official Gazette. 


Nub-clause (m).—The expression ‘‘principal successor State’’ is relevant 
only when there are two or more successor States to an existing State. 
These are named in the sub-clause. 


‘lauses 8 to 14.—The territorial] changes proposed in this Part fall into 
three ¢roups. First, there are the transiers of territories from I yderabad 
to Andhra-Telanganu under clause 3 and from Travancore-Cochin ٥ 
Madras under 01088 4. Secondly, there is the formation of seven ‘‘new’’ 
States. ‘Thirdly, two centrally administered areas, namely, Bombay and 
{he Laccadive, Minicoy and Antindivi islands, are formed under clauses 8 
and 6, respectively. All these changes are to take place as from the 
appointed day. 

In sub-clause (2) of each of the clauses 3, 5, 7, 9, $0, IL and 12 and 
in clause 4, provision 1s mude for constituting certain transferred territories 
eter as separate districts or as parts of other specified districts in the 
Siates to which they will stand transferred on the appointed day. This 
is in order to facilitate the making of suitable adminigrativs arrangements 
on and from that duy without a break. Clause 14 expressly saves the power 
uf the State Government to alter thereafter the name, extent and boundaries 
of any district or other territorial division in the State. 


I'he provisions of Part 11 of this Bill have to be read with the 
provisions of clause 2 of the Constitution (Ninth Amendment) Bill, 1956 in 
which article 1 of the Constitution is proposed to be amended and the First 
Schedule to the Constitution is proposed to be completely revised. 


Clauses 15 to £1.—In clause 15, it is proposed to divide the States and 
(nion territories, as reorganised (excluding the Andaman and Nicobar 
islands and the Laccadive, Minmicov and Amindivi islands), into five zones 
and to establish a permanent zonal council for each of them. Clause 16 
provides for the composition of the zonal councils and clauses 17 and 18 
provide broadly for their provedure. Each council will have a permanent 
secretariat located at such place within the zone as the council may deter- 
mine. The functions of a council are indicated in clause 21. 


Clauses 22 to 24.—In clause 3(2) of the Constitution (Ninth Amend- 
ment) Bill, 1956, it is proposed to revise the Fourth Schedule to the Con- 
stitution alloting to each State or Union territory a certain number of seats 


1898 THK CA. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Parr VI 
سے ےس ےس سے سے سب سس سے سس سے سس سز بس‎ a 


in the Council of States. In view of this revision of all allocation of seats, it 
becomes necessary to make detailed provision for the allocation of sitting 
members in the Council of States to the several States and Union territories 
after reorganisation, und this is done in clause 22. In all cases where a selec- 
lion of individual sii{ting members becomes necessary, the Chairman of the 
Council of States is empowered by this clause to muke the selection. 
Because of the increase in the total number of seats in the Council of 
States, a few bye-elections will be necessary to fill the vacancies. Clause 23 
provides for the holding of these bye-elections in due course. 


Clause 25.—As a result of the territorial changes, the constiluencies of 
some of the sitting members in the House of the People will be transferred 
to another State and those of some others will be spread over two States. 
Provision 1s made in clause 25 that this shall not be deemed to affect the 
constitution or duration of the existing House of the People or the extent of 
the constituency of any sitting member of that House. 


Clause 26.—This clause provides for the setting up of an_ interim 
Legislative Assembly for each of the new States and for the necessary 
changes in the composition of the Legislative Assemblies of Andhra and 
Madras which are territorially uffected by the provisions of Part II. Broadly 
speaking, all sitting members of the existing Legislattve Assemblies, 
including those of the Part C States of Ajmer, Bhopal, Coorg and Vindhya 
Pradesh, will bccome members of the Legislative Assomblies of the States 
to which the territory comprised in their present constituencies 38 
transferred either halls or In major part. Since Kutch does not have a 
Legislative Assembly at present, a special provision 18 proposed in sub- 
clause (3) of this clause to the effect that the electoral colleze constituted 
for that State by direct election should choose five persona from among 
themselves to be members of the interim Legislative Assembly of Gujarat. 


Clauses 27 and 28.—Clause 28 fixes the duration of the provisional 
Assemblies of the new States and of the continuing Assemblics of Andhra 
aud Madras. It will be recalled that the existing Assemblies of Travaneore- 
Cochin, PEVSU and Andhra have been recently elected and, in their case, 
the normal period of five years began on 21-3-54, 20-3.54 and 
21-4-55, respectively. In the provisional Assembly of the new State of 
Kerala, there will be considerable disparity between the representation of 
the Travancore-Cochin population and that of the Malabar population. 
Similarly, »n the provisional اوس‎ of the new State of Vunjab, the 
PEPSU region will be over-represented as compared to the present Punjab 
region. It will, therefore, be inappropriate to continue the provisional 
Assemblies of these two new States for the full duration of the existing 
Assemblics of Travancore-Cochin and PEPSU, respectively, and if is 
proposed to equate their duration to that of the existing Assemblies of 
Madras and Punjab, respectively. The position will be different in Andhra- 
Telangana. The representation of the Telangana area in the enlarged 
Legislative Assembly of Andhra will be on the same population basis— 
roughly one representative for one lakh—as the representation of the 
present Andhra area. The number of sitting members of the Hyderabad 
Assembly who will become members of the Andhra Assembly on the 
appointed day will be only a little more than half the number of members of 
the existing Andhra Assembly. Taking all these factors into consideration, 
it is proposed in cause <8(2) that the change in the composition of the 
J.egislative Assembly of Andhra shall] not affect its normal duration of five 
vears from 21-4-55, but a ا‎ provision is made in clause 27 for holding 
a semi-general election in the Telangana area simultaneously with the next 
general election to the House of the People in that area. 


Part VI] THE CAL. GAZ, WXTRY., AUG. 1, 1946 1899 


1 Clause 29.—This provides fur the continuance in office of Speakers and 
Deputy Speakers of Legislative Assemblies as far us possible, in order to 
avoid the necessity of holding elections under article 178 immediately 
after the appointed day and to facilitate the conduct of business in the 
re-constituted Assemblies. 


Clause 31.—It is proposed that the new State of Madhya Pradesh 
which, besides being the largest in area, will be formed by the merger of 
four existing States should have a bi-cumeral legislature an soon 8 
practicable. Provision is accordingly made in this clause for the establish- 
ment of a Legislative Council in this State with effect from such date as 
the President may appoint. This will be shortly after the general election 
of the Legislative Assembly of the State has been completed ৪70 the 
members of that Assembly have in their turn elected the requisite number 
of persons to be members of the Legislative Council. 


Clause 32.—A few minor modifications in the constitution of the Legis- 
Jative Council of Madras are proposed in this clause, mainly on account 
of the territorial changes in that State and incidentally also in order to bring 
it into conformity with clause (3) of article 170 of the Constitution. 


Clauses 38 and 34.—It is proposed that the new State of Mysore should 
have a Jagislative Council from the beginning. Its proper constitution in 
accordance with article 170(8) can be তর only after the general 
election has been held in the State. Provision is accordingly made in 
sub-clause (2) for an interim Legislative Council consisting of all the sitting 
members of the existing Lepislative Council and 29 other members to 
represent the territories which wil] be added to Mysore. These latter mem- 
bers will be chosen before the appointed day in such manner as may be 
prescribed. Sub-clauses (3) and (4) provide for the reconstitution of the 
Council so as to consist of sixty members. Similar provisions are made in 
clause 34 in regard to the Legislative Council of Punjab the position of 
which is similar to that of Mysore. 


Clause 37.—The Commission set up by the Delimitation Commission Act, 
1992, finished its task a few months ago after delimitmg parliamentary and 
assembly constituencies in all the existing States. In view of the territorial 
changes proposed in Part IT of this Bill, the allocation of seats made by 
that Commission has to be revised. Instead of leaving this revision to be 
dune by the new Delimitation Commission, it is propused in cluuse 37 and 
the Third Schedule to fix the number of seats in the House of the People 
to be allotted to each of the reorganised States and Union territories and 
the total number of seats to be assigned to the Legilative Assembly of each 
State. The numbers already allotted or ussigued by the former Commission 
in the case of those existing States which are unaffected by the provisions 
of Part 11 (Assam, Bihar, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal) are 
retained in the Schedule without any change, and only the numbers in 
regard to the other States have been altered. The quota for each State in 
the House of the People has been arrived at by dividing the population of 
the State by the same general average as was adopted by the former Delimi- 
tation Commission (4.e., 732, 983) and hy rounding off to tlte nearest integer. 
For assigning the total number of seats in the various Legislative Assemblies, 
such multiple has been adopted as will preserve the delimitation work already 
done to the greatest extent. 


Clauses 88 and 39.—It will not be practicable to fix in the Bill itself 
the numbers of seats to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes of each State and Union territory in the House of the People and 
in the State Legislutive Assembly, This task has to be done by the Delimi- 
{ation Commission, but before it can do s0, the existing Scheduled Castes 
and Scheduled Tribes Orders made hy the President under articles 841 and 


1900 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AVG. 1, 1956 [Paut VI 


تھی pa RE‏ ہہ 
مپیے ক‏ 


342 and proposed to be amended by a separate Bill will have to be 8ء‎ 
and modified with reference to the reorganisation of States, Clause 8 
id to vest this power of adaptation in the President, Provision is 
made in clause 39 empowering the census authority to ascertain or estimate 
the population of the Scheduled Custes and of the Scheduled Tribes in each 
State and in each Union territory, in such manner os may be prescribed and 
11. notify those population figures in the (fazeite of Indit. After these two 
سا‎ রি have been taken, the Delimitation Commission will arrive at 
the number of scats to he reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes of each State in the House of the People and in the State Legislative 
Assembly. 


_ Clause 40.—This clause provides for the constitution, as soon as this Bill 
is enacted, of a new Delimitation Commission on the same lines as the former 
Commission. 


Clause 41.—This indicates the duties of the Commission. 


Clauses 42, 43 and 44,—Since the re-delimitation of constituencies has to 
he finished within a period of four or five months at the most from the date 
of passing of this Bill, the procedure prescribed for the Commission in these 
cluuses in much shorter than that laid down for the former Commission in 
the Act of 1952, Clause 42 requires the appointment of associate members 
ouly in regard to the seven ‘‘new’’ Stutes, and the number of such members 
for each State is reduced to five. Since in Andhra-Telanyana and Madrasa, 
only some slight readjustment of a few constituencies will be necessary, no 
provision is made for associate members in either of these two States, It 
is proposed that the associate members of the new Commission should as far 
ig possible be selected from those who were associate members of the former 
Delimitation Commission. Clause 44 dispenses with the previous publication 
of the Commission’s proposals and public sittings which were laid down in 
the former Act. 


Clauses 45 and 46.—There are at present 18 [igh Courts, one for each 
Part A State and Part B State, and 7 Judicial Commissioner’s Courts, one 
for each Part C State other than Coorg and Delhi. he reduction in the 
numbersof States necessarily involves the abolition of some of these Hijeh 
Courts and Judicial Commissioner’s Courts and this is provided in clause 
46 of the Bill. In clause 45, it is proposed that the High Court at Bombay 
shall continue to be the ip Court for Gujarat, Maharastra and the Union 
territory of Bombay and that the High Courts now exercising jurisdiction 
in relation to the existing States of Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, Punjab, 
Rajasthan and Travancore-Cochin shall become the High Courts for the 
corresponding new States. After this reorganisation there will be 14 High 
Yourts and 8 Judicial Commissioner’s Courts in India. 


Clauses 47 to 65.—The detailed provisions contained in these clauses 
follow in the main the provisions made in the Andhra State Act, 19538, for 
setting up the new High Court of Andhra. Clauses 47 to 62 contain general 
provisions as regards the jurisdiction and powers of the High Courts for 
the new States. Clause 53 provides that the High Court for a new State 
shall sit at such place or places ay the Chief Justice may, with the approval 
of the Governor, appoint. The existing laws ‘relating to appeals to the 
Supreme Court from the various High Courts are continued in force by 
clause 54. Clauses 55 to 62 provide for the transfer of proceedings from one 
High Court to another on the appointed day as a result of the reorganisation 
of the States and High Courts. Provision is made in clause 63 Tor enabling 
advocates and attorneys already engaged in those proceedings to appear and 
to act in the other High Court in relation to those proceedings 


Clauses 66 and 67.—In order that the administration of a new State may 
be carried on until the State Legislature has sanctioned expenditure from 


Part V1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1901 


সস সস সস | 


th& Consolidated Fund of that State and passed the necessary Appropriation 
Act, provision is‘made in clause 66 for the Governor or Rajpramukh of the 
corresponding State to authorise at any time before the appointed day such 
expenditure for 0 period of three months from the appointed day. In the 
case 01 Andhra and Madras each 01 which will be getting new territory on 
that day, doubts may arise whether the State Apprupriation Acts for the year 
1956-57 authorise the spending of any amount in or for the transfered 
territury. Clause 67 is‘intended to remove any such doubts. 


Clause 68.—Under article 151(2) of the Constitution, the reports of the 
Comptroller and Auditor-General relating to the accounts of a State have 
to be submitted to the Governor or Rajpramukh and then laid before the 
ogislature of the State. Where the territory of an existing State is distri- 
buted between two or more succesyor States, special provision will be necessary 
to determine to which one or more of such States the audit reports should 
be presented. Clause 68 enables the President to decide this question and 
also to take such further action as may be appropriate in the circumstances, 


Clause 69.—This clause enables the President to determine by order the 
allowances and privileges of the Governors of all the new States until 
provision is made by Parliament under article 158(3). 


Clause 70 and the Fourth Schedule.—The distribution among the States 
of a portion of the proceeds of certain Centra] excise duties in accordance 
with the recommendations of the Finance Commission is now regulated by 
the Union Duties of Excise (Distribution) Act, 1953, while the fistribution 
of the divisible pool of income-tax is regulated by the Constitution (Distri- 
bution of Revenues) Order, 1953. Necessary adaptations in section 3 of the 
Act and paragraphs 3 and 6 of the Order are proposed in the Fourth 
Schedule to the Bill. Part B States at present are entitled either to pay- 
ments under the said Act and Order or to the revenue gap grants payable 
under the federal financial integration agreements, whichever is more. In 
order to maintain this scheme for both halves of the financial year 1956-57 
despite the abvlition of the Part B States as such, provision is made in sub- 
paragraph (2) of the revised paragraph 5 of the Order. The additional 
percentages mentioned against certain States in section 3(2) of the Act 

paragraph 3(3) of the Order as set out in the Fourth Schedule represent 
the shares to which each of the States of Gujarat, Kerala, Madras and 
Mysore would be entitled on account of the Part B State territories absorbed 
by them. The provision made in the Fourth Schedule to the Bill will be 
applicable only for the financial year 1956-57. The distribution of revenues 
among the States for subsequent وط‎ will be determined by the Finance 
Commission which has been recently appointed. 


Clauses 71 to 88.—These clauses relate to the apportionment of the assets 
and liabilities of those Part A aud Part B States which are affected by the 
provisions of Part II and follow generally the corresponding provisions of 
the Andhra State Act, 1958. Thus, certain assets like lands and buildings, 
stores, articles and other goods, arrears of taxes and the assets of State under- 
takings, will pass to the successor State in which such assets are physically 
located or with which they are territorially connected—see clauses 72, 74 
and 77. Certain other assets like treasury and bank balances, the right to 
recover external loans and advances and credits in certain funds are to be 
divided between the successor States, where there is more than one, aCcord- 
ing to the ‘“‘population ratio’’—see clauses 78, 75 and 76. 


Provision is made in clause 78 for the apportionment of the public debte 
of the States affected by the provisions of Part 11. The provision is generally 
the same as that made in the Andhra State Act for the division of the 
public debt of Madras between Madras, Mysore and Andhra. In the case 
of the public debts of Bombay and Hyderabad, however, it is proposed in 


1902 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 6 [Parr VI 


Pees ee ee ee - সস ہیک مے‎ Re ও ১০ ee لم ہے‎ 


sub-clause (1) that they shall stand transferred to 006 Central Government 
on the 300 September, 1956, and that the 0600] Government shall be 
deemed to have made a loan to each of these States of an amount equal to 
the public debt so transferred. The object is to ensure that Andhra and 
Maharashtra as the principal successor States of Hyderabad and Bombay, 
respectively, may not be saddled with an exaggerated public debt, which 
may affect their future borrowings, In all other cases, the debt outstanding 
with the public and payable by an existing State will be allocated to a 
specific successor State, the other successor tates, if any, reimbursing the 
one which carries the liability. These reimbursements will be in proportion 
to the total expenditure on all capital works and other capital outlays incurred 
up to the appointed day in the territories of the existing State included, 
respectively, in each of the successors States. 


Rights and liabilities under subsisting contracts and outstanding liabi- 
lities in respect of actionable wrongs are matters of immediate concern to 
the public, Since it ia desirable that the private party should know with 
which successor State he would have to deal after the reorganisation, general 
provisions are made in clauses 82 and 83 for this purpose. Where there 
is more than one successor State to an existing State and the rights or liabi- 
lities in respect of a contract or actionable wrong cannot be logically allocated 
to a particular successor State, it is allocated to the principal successor State 
subject to subsequent financial adjustment between that State and the other 
successor States which may be concerned in the matter. 


The division of assets and liabilities ig bound to be a complicated matter 
and it may well be anticipated that the general provisions made in this 
part will not cover all possible cases fully and satisfactorily. Clause 87 
accordingly vests the Central Government with power to make such adjust- 
ments as may be found just or equitable. It 1s proposed that this power 
should be exercisable by the Central Government only on a reference bein 
made by the aggrieved State within a period of three years from the appointe 
day and only after consultation with 81] the State Governments concerned. 


Clauses 89 to 96.—These clauses deal with the assets of the Union within 
any of the five Part © States which are proposed to be merged in the n 
States and the liabilities of the Union arising out of or in relation to fe 
governance of those Part C States. A general provision is made in clause 
90 that all these assets and liabilities shall pass to the absorbing States unless 
they are relatable to purposes of Government connected with any matter 
mentioned in the Union List. The particular provisions mentioned in 
clauses 91 to 96 follow the pattern of Part VII, but are naturally much 
simpler. Clause 98 refers to the loans given by the Central Government 
to Any of these Part ( States since the Ist April, 1954 for developmental 
purposes and transfers the liability for those debts to the absorbing States. 


Clauses 97 and 98.—There are at present ten corporations established 
under the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 besides an Industrial 
Invesment Corporation constituted some years ago for the State of Madras. 
The territorial changes made by Part II will affect the financial corpora- 
tions of Bombay, Hyderabad, Saurashtra and Travancore-Cochin and the 
Madras Industrial Investment Corporation, Specia] provisions in regard to 
these corporations are accordingly proposed in clauses 97 and 98. The four 
financial corporations will, from the appointed day, be deemed to be the 
financial corporations constituted under the Act of 1951 for the States of 
Maharashtra, Andhra-Telengana, Grujarat and Kerela, respectively. The 
State which takes over the corporation ig made liable to pay to each of the 
other successor States (and in the case of Bombay, also to Central Governs 
ment) on account of its share of the paid-up capital of the corporation, such 
amount as the Central Government may determine. The Madras Industrial 


Pant VI] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 1903 
Fn Ne 


Iuivestment Corporatian will be deemed to have been constituted for the 
State of Madras with its area ag altered by the provisions of Part II, and 
that State will be Hable to pay to each of the new States of Kerala and 
Mysore on account of its share of the paid-up capital such amount as the 
Central Government may determine. 


Clause 99.—Sections 21 and 21-A of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, 
make somewhat different provisions in regard to Part A States and Part B 
States, While under section 21, Part A States have to entrust their bank- 
ing business und the management of their public debt to the Reserve Bank, 
section 21-A leaves Part B States to come to an agreement with the Bank in 
regard to both these matters. This difference which is mainly due to 
historical reasons is, strictly speakinz, not justifiable under the Constitution. 
Agreements under section 21 exist between the Bank and all the Part A 
States, but no agreements have so far heen made under section 21-A between 
the Bank and the Part B States of Rajasthan and Patiala and East Punjab 
States Union. It is accordingly proposed in clause 99 to modify sections 20, 
21 and 21-A so as to bring them into conformity with the Constitution and 
add o new section 21-B preserving all the existing arrangements, Some 
modifications of a more or less formal character will be necessary in these 
ugreements in view of the changed circumstances. It is proposed in the new 
rection 21-B that these modifications will be made by order of the Central 
সন 1ھ‎ if there is no agreement between the Bank and the State con- 
cerned. 


Clause 100.—Thig clause makes transitional provision for the functioning 
of the State Electricity Boards now existing in the States of Bombay, Madhya 
Pradesh and Saurashtra. It enables these Boards to continue to function in 
the same areas as at present, even after the formation of the new States of 
Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya [radesh, for a period of one year, As 
aud when these new States set 0 Electricity Ril under the 17519001085 
(Supply) Act, 1948, the existing Boards will be able to transfer their assets 
und liabilities to the corresponding new Boards and wind up their affairs 
in the regions which will pass to the jurisdiction of the arse Boards, 
Provisions is also made for the contingency of a new State not setting up 
an Electricity Board by the 1st October, 1957, in which case the State 
itself wil] take over its due share of the assets and Jiabilities of the existing 
Board on ita dissolution. 


Clauses 101 to 104.—Clauses 101 and 102 provide for the continuance 
of inter-State agreements and agreements in regard to the generation and 
supply of electric power, the supply of water und the execution of projects 
for the promotion of irrigation, water supply or drainage, the development 
of electric power, etc. The object of clauses 103 and 104 is similarly to 
continue the operation of the Bombay Road Transport Corporation for a 
period of one year from the appointed day and to continue without serious 
disturbance the existing inter-State arrangements in regard to road transport 
permits for motor vehicles. 


Clause 106 and the Sizth Schedule.—Provision is made in this clause 
for the continuance of facilities in certain classes of State institutions, such 
ay engineering Colleges, medical colleges, Government hospitals, research 
institutes and central jails, which are now enjoyed by all areas within the 
existing State. In order that the transfer of territory from one State to 
another might not be allowed to cause serious dislocation, the Central Govern- 
ment is empowered to issue directions to the State Governments 
مہہ‎ for the continuance of such facilities. Agreements will 
no doubt be reached between the State Governments as to the term and condi- 
tious on which facilities in institutons located in transferred territories will 
be continued for the Government and the people of the adjoining States, 


1904 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 1, 1956 [Part VI 
Fr A স্০ুুু শাহ শা স্িস্ি সস ঘা 


Clause 106.—This clause provides for the reconstitttign gf all the Stas 
cadres of the [.A.8. and I.P.8. which are affpcted by States reorganisation. 
It is proposed in sub-clause (4) that the cadres for all Part B States, Bombay, 
Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Vindhya’ Pradesh should be wound up and 
the members borne on those cadres should be allocated to the State cadres 
for the new States or for other existing States by order of the Central 
Government. 

Clause 107.—This contains the transitory provision relating to all other 
State services. Broadly speaking, the scheme is that all persons serving in 
11) those Part B and Part C States which are to be completely merged in 
a new State will be deemed to have been allotted to that new State. Those 
serving in any other existing State which is affected by the reurganisation 
will provisionally continue to serve in the principa: successor State, unless 
they are required by general or special order of the Central Government to 
serve provisivnally in any other successor State. As soon as practicable after 
the appointed day, the hae Ba Government wil] decide upon the final allo- 
cation of all these officers to particular States, Sub-clause (5) of clause 107 
empowers the Centra] Government to set up one or more advisory committees 
for the purposes of assisting it in regard to the determination of the final 
allotment of Government servants, the proper integration of the services 
and the ensuring of fair and equitable treatment to all persons affected by 
the territorial] changes and formation of new States. 

Clause 108.—This clause provides for the continuance of officers in the 
same or corresponding posts on or after the appointed day except where 
under the provisions of the Bill or any other law the posts cease to exist on 
that day, subject to the right of the competent authority, after the appointed 
day, to pass in relation to such officers any order affecting ibeir continuance 
in such posts. 

Clause 109.—This empowers the Central Government to issue directions 
either before or after the appointed day to any State for the purpose of 
giving effect to the provisions of clauses 106 to 108. 

Clause 110,—This clause provides for the establishment of Public Service 
Commissions in al] the new States and for the re-allocation, where necessary, 
of the chairmen and members of all the Commissions now functioning. 

Clauses 111 to 116.—These clauses contain the usual and well understood 
provisions of a legal nature. Clause 11] makes it clear that the territorial 
extent of existing laws and territorial references in those laws will not be 
automatically altered by reason of anything contained in Part IT of this 
Bill. Power to adapt laws is conferred by clause 112 on the Central and 
State Governments to be exercised within a period of one year from the 
appointed day. 

Clause 117.—This is necessitated by the fact that when the five Part 
( States are merged in new States, the avcient and historical monuments 
which have been declared to be protected monuments and the archaeological 
sites and remains which have been declared to be protected areas, will not 
have the status of monuments, sites and remains of national importance, 
although for all practical purposes they are, and deserve to be, treated aa 
such by the Central Government, In order that these monuments, sites and 
remains may continue to be a Union responsibility, it is proposed to make the 
requisite declaration in terms of entry 67 of the Union List and make the 
consequential amendments in the Ancient and Historical Monuments and 
Archaeological Sites and Remains (Declaration of National Importance) 

ct, 1951. 
7 Clause 121.—This provides for the repeal of the Government of Part 
€ States Act, 1951 consequent on the abolition of that category of States. 
Tt is made clear in sub-clause (2) that the repeal of that Act will not affect 
the continuance in force of the laws made by the Legislatures established 
under that Act. 


Pang, VII 11119 OAL GAZ, EXTRY., ATG. 1, 6 1005 
oe چٹ و‎ ০০৬ 
KINANCLAL 11118101841) 


The Bill contemplates thaf five Zonal Councils will be established, The 
wudiministrative expenses inchyding the salaries and allowances payable to or 
in respect of the members of the secretarial staff of each Council (other tiau 
the Secretary) will he borne by the Central Gtovernment out of monies pro- 
vided by Parhament for the purpose, vide clause 20(2). It is anticipated 
that the annual recurring expendture incurred on account of eath Zonal 
Council may be of the order of Rs. 90,000 to Rs. 1,00,000 so that the total 
expenditure on account of all the five Zonal Councils may he estimated at 
between 11৭. 4,50,000 and Res. 5,000,000, 


2. In addition to this annual recurring expenditure, some initial non- 
recurring expenditure may have to be incurred in the first year which may 
be of the order of Its. 17,500. 


3. The estimates of both recmring and non-recurring expenditure at 
this stave are to be regarded as very rough. 


MEMORANDUM REGARDING DELEGATED LEGISLATION 


Clause 120 of the Bil] empowers the Central Government to make rules 
ما‎ give effect to the provisions of the 1311] when enacted. This power 
will be required mainly with reference to clauses 26(3), 33(2) (b) and 34(2) (b) 
for presertbing the manner in which the elections referred in these clauses 
dre to be held and with reference to clause 39(1) for prescribing the manner 
in Which the census authority is to determine the population of the scheduled 
castes and scheduled tribes in the reorganised States and Union territories. 


Clause 112 empowers the Central Government as wel] as the State Gov- 
Prnments to adapt existing laws in order to facilitate their application 1 the 
States and Union territories ufter reorganisation. This power is to be avail- 
able until the expiration of one year from the appointed day. 


The proposed delegation of legislative power is of a normal character. 


11. N. KRAUL, ۰ 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at We:t Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the let August 1956. 


Registered Na C207 No. 382(1A) 


e Bs 
S oc Pe! 
ek ৪০৫, اچ‎ 
۹ us! 
60411111118 | : ie 
رم‎ 7 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 1956 


PART [A-—Orders and Notifications of the Government of 

ndia, Statutory Notifications of the Election Commission, 
Ind th, and other Election Notifications published fer 
g@ticral information. Orders and Notifications which have 
originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are 
only republished. 

٥ COVERNMENT OF INDIA. 
ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
New Delhi, July 27, 1956 
NOTIFICATION 

No. 29/10/56.—In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by the proviso to rule 12 of the 
Representation of the People (Preparation of 
Electoral Rolls) Rules, 1956, the Election Com- 
mission hereby extends up to the 14th August, 1956, 
the period within which claims and_ objections 
under the said rule are to be made, in respect of the 
০৮০7৮] rolls for all the constituencies comprised 
withm the State of West Bengal. 

By order, 
A. KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, 


Secretary to the Election Commission. 


a 2 a een :رت تب جج ژاج تسچ ژ ھ_ھ:'ہ:سہ:تحچےوو--۔-ے۔ج ےتوےےے-:تےت۱۰۰<ھوج×:دو.‎ 
Printed and ة مطصاحاع‎ by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengel, 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the Ist August 6+ 


1907 


1 


ا 


; 


‘Ww ۱ Ra" 
1১১ 0৮০ vai ihe: 


১ Many, ১ ১ এ) sl ۲ a : 01018 3 ۸ . 1 ৃ ۱ سس‎ : ۰ +} 1 } 0 x 5 “het ہن‎ : " ৬ ٠ 4 
711 Tale ا ا کر ا ا ا لا 17071797187 "۴ ۵ق‎ aM مد ا‎ পা 
1 0 A Bhi? 1 پل‎ 0 vi - : 0 ۱ پا‎ মং ۲ i env? : ۱ র্‌ آ۷ ا‎ ‘ i 3 ا16 لا‎ ۰۳۸۵ 1 60 


۱ 
و 


۹ 


90 07 


 ইএ৫৬জি,এ।৫স-১৪ ৫৬ IH 
দণ্ডপ্রণালণীর (৯৮৯৮ Ts 6 


2756- 


anas-Murshidabad-Birbhum.—-No. 
4/56.—21st J uly 1956. —In exercise ev 
s conferred by sub-section (2) of 

F Criminal ۲ sgn ( Act 


70 6 
Ae 


Mens 


aT VI.—Bills inteoduted in “Parliament of" 
; Reports of Select ۲ 
liament; and 


quality) in Calcutta during the came of টা 3 


ہے ۱ | 018 | اویل ا ا 


Collector, Nadia, to be, until further : 
Assistant Magistrate and. Collector, 24-1 
and to have charge of the Baraset Subd 
that district. 


Calcutta——No. 2777G.A.—24th Jul. 1956. 

The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri ۔!)‎ 

| Additional Transport Commissig 

J Additional Secretary, Home Department? 

be, temporarily until further orders, Additic 

Secretary in the Department of Agricul 
Animal Husbandry and ও, 


Calcutta.—No. 27790. A,—24th > July. 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
L.C.8., to be, until further orders, “J 
Commissioner, West Beng al, ‘under th 
eer Department, on the expif 
eave. | 


No. 2807G.A.—26th J uly 1956. The 
is pleased to appoint Shri R. Gupta | 
Transport Commissioner, West Benge 

Secretary in the Home | 


By order of the 


fay 1956.-The Gover 
the orders توم‎ in th 


Bernd hee 


“Shri ও grees 

agi ৬1118 put 
to is. headquarters stat 
district, 


১৪) 


Part 1[ 


THE CALCDTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2. 1966 2933 


جب یی ےی سےس_سیپی''چ'سپپو9ّ._ ک۔۹۱پ9۹کٹ1ٹآٹٹغی88-تے_ٹ- -صسسس_:سك.::.:::0+00سس.+ت-٭.س-س_ پ گی تسووِیسےتستھجچج..ب و ًٍ ہ٣ a‏ 


"0 ٤ 


Police 
নদিজ্া-ই৪-পরগনা।-নং ২৮৩৪জ,এ।৩পি-৪২1৫৬।-২৭এ জুলাই 
১৯৫৬।--নাঁদয়া জেলার রানাঘাট মহকুমার সহ-আরক্ষাধীক্ষক শ্রী পি ٭‎ 
মুখোপাধ্যার,। Mia, কাভার গ্রহণের তাঁরখ হইতে ২৪-পরগনা 
জেলার বারাকপুর মহকুমার আরক্ষা কার্যের ভারপ্রাপ্ত সহ-আরক্ষাধীক্ষক 
سی ہا‎ 


Nadia-24-Parganas.—_No.  2834G.A./8P-42/56. 
—27th July 1966.—The (Governor 1s pleased to 
@ppoint Shri P. G. Mukhopadhyay, I.P.5., Assist- 
ant Superintendent of Police, Ranaghat, Nadia, 
tape Assistant Superintendent of Police, Barrack- 
pom, 24.Parganas, and to have charge of the 
Police work of that subdivision, with effect from 
ملق‎ dute of his joining the post. 


হ,গাল১২৪-পরগনা-নং ২৮৩৫জি,এ।৩পি-৪২।৫৬।--২৭এ জুলাই 
৯৯৯৫৬ “anit জেলার শ্রীরামপুর মহকুমার সহ-আরক্ষাধীক্ষক শ্রী আর 
فی نہ‎ আইনপ,এস, কার্ধভার গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে ২৪-পরগনা 
জেলার বনগাঁ মহকুমার ও এ জেলার বারাসত মহকুমার হাবড়া থানার 
”دو‎ অণ্টলের আরক্ষাকার্যের ভারপ্রাপ্ত সহ-আরক্ষাধণক্ষক 'নিয্ত্ত 
হইলেন। 


Hooghly-24-Parganas.—No. 2835G.A./3P-42 me 
—27th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
oint Shri R. K. Bhattacharyya, I.P.S., Assist- 
an Superintendent of Police, Serampore, 
Rlooghly, to be Assistant Superintendent of Police, 
Bongaon, 24-Parganas, and to have charge of the 
Police work of that subdivision and of the area 
“ugder Habra police-station of Baraset subdivision 
the same district, with effect from the date of 

a joining the post. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


আরক্ষা Pew waned, বায়াকপ্‌র-চারশাখা।-নং ২৭৯৩জি,এ।৩পি-১। 
toy see জুলাই ১৯৫৬ ।-বারাকপুয়স্বিত আরক্ষা শক্ষায়তনের শিক্ষা- 
বাশ Oops শ্রীহেমেন্দ্নাথ রায়কে কার্যভার গ্রহণের তারিখ 
হইতে গাশ্চমবঙ্গোর PP all উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ 'নবৃন্ত করা হইল। 
এতদ্বারা ১৩ই 15پ‎ ১৯৫৬ তারিখের ২৬৭৮জ,এ, নং প্রজ্ঞাপনে প্রদত্ত 
আদেশ পারবার্তত ہا‎ হইল। 


P.T.C., Barrackpore-1.B.—No. 2793G.A. /3P-1/ 
66.—26th July 1956.—In modification of the 
orders condained in this department notification 
No. 2678G.A., dated the 18th July 1956, the 
Governor is pleased to post Shri Hemendra Nath 
Roy, Pé@obationary Deputy Superintendevt of 
Police, under training at the ice Trainiug 
College, Barrackpore, 


24-Pgrganas, to the 
Intelligence Branch, West Bengal, with effect, 


from the date on which he assumes charge. 


By trder of the Goveruor, 
T. GHOSH, Wnder Seoy. 


31 
Leave 


লাধারণ। 


General 
বর্ধসান।-নং ২৭১৪জি,এ।১এল-২৫1৫৬।--১৭ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-- 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গ gore নিয়মাবলশর ১৮৪(খ)২) নিয়ম জনূসাঁরে বর্ধমানের 
জেলা ও দায়রা বিচারক ھ‎ পি এন mips, ১৯৫৬ সালের ak 
یج‎ তাঁরথ হইতে ১লা অক্টোবর তাঁরখ পর্ধল্ত গড় বেতনে ছাট 
TAA করা হইল। 


Burdwan,—No. 2714G.A./ veg a ۵۳ July 
1956.—The Governor has been pleased eto allow 
Shri P. N, Lahiry, District and Sessions Judge, 
Burdwan, leave on average pay for the period 
from the 5th July 1956 to the Ist October 1956 
under rule 184(b)(ii) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum.—No. _2758G.A./ 11-31] 
56(Pt.).—2lst July 1956.—The Goterfior was و‎ 
ed to allow Shri K. R. Das Sarkar, ۸00:80٦] م1‎ 
trict Magistrate, MurshidabadRBirbhum, leave on 
average pay for fourteen days trom the 4th. July 
1956 to the 17th July 1956 under cule 184(b)(ii) 
of the West Bengal Service Rules; ‘Part I. 


নাঁদয়া।_নং ২৭৬০জ,এ।১এল-২৪,৫৬ পী্পডি+-২১এ জাই 
৯৯৫৬।__নাঁদয়া জেলার آ77 ٭‎ জেলাশাসক শ্রী এস আর দাশ, 
আই),এ,এস-কে ১৯৫৫ সালের ات تی‎ oa নিয়মাবলশর ১১৫১) 
সংখ্যক নিয়মানুসারে GST জুন ১৯৫৬ তাঁরথ হইত × জুলাই ئا‎ 
তআঁরখ পর্যন্ত আর্জত ES মঞ্জুর করা tye! یں‎ ST 
জুন ১৯৫৬ তারখের ১৯৬০জ,এ, নং প্রজ্ঞাপন* পারবাতিষ্ হইল। 


Nadia.—No. 218--.):11-24/606[7/.ھ..27600‎ July 
1956.—In modification of the orders contained in 
thig department notification No. 1960G.A., dated 
the Ist June 19056. the Governor was pleased ہو‎ 
alluw Shri S. .لا‎ Daa, I.A.8., Additional District 
Magistrate, Nadia, earned leave for the period 
from the 4th June 1956 to the 2nd July 1956 under 
a 11(1) of the All India Services (Teave) Rules, 


By order of ‘the Governor, 
৪. N. RAY, Chief Stcy. 


atgyt ae ২৭২৯জি,এ।৬এল-১৬।৫১।--১৮ই জূলাই ১৯৫৬৫ 
বাঁকুড়া সদরের অবকাশভোগশী جج‎ শাসক ও Spree 
ব্যানার্জকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ কৃত্ক নিয়মালশর (oT খণ্ড) svat) সংখাক 
নিয়মানুসারে ১২ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ Oia ২৬৬০জি,এ, ہ7‎ 
মঞ্জরশকৃত ছুটির সাহত ২১এ জুন ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে, ৬ই জুলাই 
১৯৫৬ Thay পর্যন্ত আর্জত Eft মজুর sa ٹ١‎ 


Bankura.—No. 2729G.A. /61.-16/56.-—-18th July 
1966.—The Governor was pleased to aflow Shri 
SE we Chandra Banerjee, Sub-Magistrate and 
Sub-Celler(or, Bapkura Sadar (on leave), varned 
leave for the period from the 2lst June 1986 ۸ 
the 6th July 956 under rule 167(ii) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I, igsextension, of the 
leave granted to hivt under the orders contained in 
this department “mofification Wo. 2660G,4., dated 
the 10th July 1966. 


2934 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2১ 1956 


[Pant I 


—————————————————=[x=»_______SSSSS EE خكػكدۂدمصۂمےمےمے_ےً‌ےمسےسےس"_۔_'‎ 


٢ ২৭৫১জি,এ।৩এল-৭1৫৬।--২০এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬।_-অবকাশভোগণ 
waa উপ-শাসক ও: সমাহর্তা শ্রীরবশন্দ্রনাথ Pree whore কৃত্যক 
নিয়মাবলীর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৮৪খে)২) সংখ্যক নিষমান্সারে یح‎ 'আর্চ 
১৯৫৬ Cine ১১৫৪জি,এ, প্রজ্ঞাপনে ×8۹ efor সাহত ৪ঠা 
জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তাঁর হইতে TR মাসের পুরা গড়বেতনে ছুটি মঞ্জুর 
করা হইল। 


No. 2751G.A./3L-7/56.—20th July 1956.—The 
Governor is pleased to allow Shri Rabindra Nath 
Sinha, No. If, SubDeputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector, leave on average pay for two 
months with effect from the 4th July 1956 under 
rule 184(b){11) of the West Bengal মি Rules, 
Yart I, ‘in extension of the leave granted 10 Lim 
under the grders contained in this department 
رت‎ No. 1154G.A., dated the 29th March 


24-Parganas.—No. 2764G.A. {61-17 /56.—2 1st 
July 1956.2-The Governor was pleased to allow 
late Chintaharan Banerjee, Sub-Magistrate and 
Sub-Collector, Alipore, 24-Parganas, earned leave 
for the period from the 14th May 1956 to the 7th 
‘Tune 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Seryive Rules, Part I. 


Burdwan.—No. 2792G.A. /2L-12/56.—25th July 
1956—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Debendra Nath Chowdhury, اوس‎ Magis- 
trate and Deputy Collector, Burdwan, leave on 
average pay for the period from the 4th August 
1956 to the ৯904১ November 1956, under 
سان‎ 895 of -West Bengal Service Rules, 

art ۰ 


No. 2806G.A./3L-23/56.—26th July 1956.— 

e Governor is pleased to allow Shri Ranjit 
Kumar” Gan ay Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector, earned leave for the period 
from the 2nd Juste 1956 to the 16th August 1956 
under 1610) of West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I, extension of the leave granted to him 
under the orders contained in this department 
“7 No. 2575G.A., dated the 3rd July 


জরক্ষা। 
Police 
২৪-পরগনা।-নং ২৭৬৬জ,এ।৫এল-১।৫৬।-_-২১এ জুলাই soe! 

--২৪-পরশনা জেল্মর অস্থায়ী উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ جج تق‎ রায়কে 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গ কৃতাক Spt (১ম খণ্ড) ১৮৪১২) সংখ্যক 
নিযম্যন্সারে ১০ই wT ৯৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে চার মাসের يہ‎ গড় বেতনে 
ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 
» “24-Parganas. — No. 2766G.A./5L-1/56. — 21st 
July 1956,—The%tovernor is pleased to allow Shri 
Satish Chandra Noy, officiating Deputy Superin- 
tendent of Police, 24-Parganns, leave on average 
pay for four months, -with effect from the ]0th 


May 1956 under rule 184(b)(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


প্রচার শাখা। 
Publicity 
প্লজ্ঞাপন। ; 
NOTIFICATION 
নং ৮২৮৯পাব ১৮৮ জুলাই ১৯৫১।-পাশচবঙ্গ সরকারের نے‎ 


€প্রচার) বিভাগের see পহ-প্রচার অধিকতর, প্রীঅমূল্যকুমার মৃখো- 
পাধ্যারকে S68. OA ১৯৫৫ তাঁরথ হইতে” te বিভাগে সহ-প্রচার 


Wit একটি- স্থায়ী ঈদে দুই বংসরকাল অবেক্ষাধীনভাবে নিষান্ত 
করা হইল? 
রাজাপালের আদেশাননসারে, 
TH, কে, রায়, 
অপর 81۱ 


No. 8289Pub.—18th July 1956.—The Governor 
has been pleased to appoint Shri Amulya Kumar 
Mukherjee, a temporary Assistant Director of 
Publicity in the Home (Publicity) Department of 
the Government of West Bengal, substantivel yeto 
& permanent post of Assistant Director ef 
Publicity in the same department on probation 
for a period of two years, with effect from the 15th 
June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
0. K. RAY, Addl. Secy. 


POLICE DIRECTORATE 
Orders by the Inspector-General of Police 


West Bengal 
No. 6172A/A.—17th July 1956.—Burdwan. 
Barrackpore-C.R.P., Howrah-C.R.P., Seaidah- 


24-Parganas.—The following transfers are ordered 
in the interest of public service: — 


(1) Shri Rudrakshya Bhattacharji, Inspector, 
urdwan, now temporarily attach 
to Detective Training School, Barragk- 
ore, to District ا‎ 

3ranch, (Government Railway 1১01108, 
Howrah, temporarily, to fill one of the 
posts of Inspector there, sanctioned 1 
Government order No. 719A.C.E., date 
2nd March 1956. 

(2) Shri Prabodh Chandra Mazumdar, Tnspec- 
tor, Government Ruilway Police, 
Sealdah, now temporarily attached to 
24-Parganas, to Detective Training School, 
Barrackpore, temporarily, vice No. 1. : 


No. (2) to move first and to join immediately. 


11. N. SIRCAR, Ingpr.-Genl. 


Transport 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 4151W.T.—26th July 1956.—In exercise 
of the power conferred by section 44 of the Motor 
Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), the Governor 
is pleased to make the following amendment in 
notification No. 3939W.T., dated the 25th April 
1952, published at page 1296 of Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette, dated the lst May 1952, as 
subsequently amended, namely :— 


Amendment 


In the Table appended to the said notification 
for the words, “Additiona) Transport © Commis- 
sioner, West @engal’’ in column 2 in serial 1, 
substitute the faltowing words, namely :— 


“The Deputy Cominissioner of Police, 
Vehicles Department. Calcutta’’. 


Public 


Sy order of thé Governor, 
J. N. TALOKDAR, Secy. 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


2935 


৮০৯ পপ 


DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 929/1S-123 /55.—31st January 1956,—It is hereby notified for general 
information that the Governor has been pleased to make the following rules 
to regulate the grant of loans to certain institutions under the Low-Income 
Group Housing Scheme, namely,— 


1. In these rules ‘‘Institution’’ means a non-governmental but recognised 
health institution or hospital or educational trust or other charitable insti- 
tution, which are statutory or local bodies corporate or registered under the 
Registration of Societies Act (Act XXI of 1860). 


2. An institution having the necessary developed land for building 
houses is eligible to apply for a loan under the Low-Income Group Housing 
Scheme for the purpose of constructing residential houses for letting them 
out to their employees who do not own a house and whose income does not 
exceed Rs. 6,000 per annum in each case: 


Provided that the institution may also, with the previous approval of 
Government, sell a house, constructed under this Scheme, outright or on a 
hire-purchase basis to an employee of the category mentioned above: 


Provided further that such house may also be let out or sold in the 
aforesaid manner to an employee already owning a house whose income does 
not exceed Rs. 6,000 per annum, if an additional house is required for his 
bona fide residential purpose. 


3. Applications for loans under this scheme should be addressed to the 
Administrative Officer, Housing, Development Department, Calcutta, the 
applications from the institutions outside Calcutta fing submitted through 
the District Officer of the district concerned. The applications should state 
the amount of loan required and the number of years not exceeding twenty- 
five, during which the loan will be repaid. 


4. All applications for the grant of loan under the scheme should 
reach the Development Department or the District Officer concerned on or 
before a date to be specified by the Development Commissioner for each 
year. 


. (a) The institution applying for loan shall have to submit the 
following documents along with its application :— 


(i) a site plan, o building plan and a detailed estimate of cost of the 
proposed building, in duplicate, duly approved by the munici- 
pality, if the land is situated within the jurisdiction of a muni- 
cipality, provided that if the approval of the municipality is not 
received in time, the building plans may be submitted without 
waiting for the receipt of the approved plans, and the approved 
91818 may be submitted when called for by the Administrative 
(08০5, তিল Development Department, Calcutta or the 
District Officer of the district concerned, as the case may be; 


(ii) copies of documents showing the institution’s title to the land on 
which it is proposed to build the house; 


(iii) a declaration from a responsible officer of the institution that the 
said land is free from encumbrances, attachments, liens, lispen- 
dens and is not subject to any right of maintenance and 18 not 
Debutter, Pirotter or Wakf. 


(b) Applications which may be admitted after a preliminary examination 
will be finally sanctioned on the production of— 


(i) the original documents referred to in sub-rule (a) (11); 


(ii) a certificate of searches for 12 years in the Registration offices to 
show that the properties are free from encumbrances and attach- 
ments; and 


(iii) a mortgage bond as in Appendix I to be executed under rule 9. 


6. A house for the construction of which a loan is wanted should at 
least be a two-roomed one and should provide not less than 380 square feet 
and normally not more than 1,200 syuare feet of floor area per unit of 
accommodation. 


7. (1) The loan is limited to 80 per cent. of the actual estimated cost 
of each house or unit of accommodation, inclusive of the cost of land on 
which the honse is proposed to be constructed, subject to a maximum of 
Rs. 2,800 00آ‎ or such unit, the balance being payable by the 
institution concerned. 


(2) Government will have the right not to grant any loan or to grant a 
reduced amount of loan on any application without showing any reason. 


٦ 


2996 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr I 


a rr ST 


(8) Government will also have the right not to grant the second or third 
instalments of the loan as provided for in rule 8 if they find on inspection 
that the construction is not proceeding according to plan and that approved 
building materials are not being used. 


8. The loan will be disbursed by the Accountant-General, West Bengal, 
in Calcutta and by the District Officers in districts in three instalmenta. 
The first instalment representing 20 per cent. of the sanctioned loan will be 
advanced on the application bemg granted by Government. The second 
instalment representing 30 per cent. of the tota] loan will be disbursed when 
the construction has reached the plinth level and the third or last instalment 
representing 60 per cent. of the total Joan will be disbursed when the 
construction has reached the roof level upon the applicant institution 
satisfying the Administrative Officer, Housing, Development Jepartment, 
Calcutta or the District Officer of the district concerned, as the case may be, 
that the amounts previously advanced have been duly and properly spent 
for the purpose for which the same had been advanced. 


9. The institution will have to execute a Mortgage deed in favour of the 
Governor in the form of Appendix I mortgaging the premises together with 
the buildings and structures to be constructed thereon, before the first 
instalment of the loan is disbursed. 


10. The loan will be advanced for a period of twenty-five years or for 
shorter periods as desired by the institution and the same will be recovered 
in equal annual instalments commencing from a date to be fixed by Govern- 
ment immediately after the expiry of one year from the date of payment of 
the last instalment of the loan. 


11. Each instalment of the loan will carry interest from the date on 
which it is advanced at the following rates :— 


Loan repayable within 20 years ... 6 per cent. per annum 
Loan repayable between 21 and 25 years ... 6} per cent. per annum 


A rebate of 1 per cent. will be allowed to those institutions which make 
payment of the annual instalment together with the interest on the outstand- 
ing principal within the date to be fixed by Government under rule 10. 
yin: on the outstanding principal is payable along with the instalment 
of the loan. 


Nothing will prevent an institution to repay the loan earlier than the 
elected period but no change of the rate of interest will be allowed. 


12. The borrower institutions are bound to allow any officer of Govern- 
ment authorised in this behalf to check the construction on the spot at any 
reasonable time and to complete the construction within four months from 
the date of payment of the last instalment of the loan. 


By order of the Governor, 


H. BANERJEE, 


Development Commissioner and 
ex officio sagt to the 
Govt. of West Bengal. 


APPENDIX I 
THIS INDENTURE made this day of One thousand 
nine hundred and fifty BETWEEN a body 
corporate haying its registered office at hereinafter 


referred to as ’’the BORROWER” (which expression shall unless excluded 
by or repugnant to the context be deemed to include its successor or successors 
and assigns) of the ONE PART AND THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE 
OF WEST BENGAL hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the GOVERNOR” (which 
expression shall unless excluded by or repugnant to the context be deemed 
to include his successors in office and assigns) of the OTHER PART. 


WHEREAS THE Borrower is seised and possessed of or is otherwise 
well and sufficiently entitled as absolute proprietor in possession thereof 
to the lands hereditaments and premises hereinafter more particularly 
described in the Schedule hereunder written free from all encumbrances. 


AND WHEREAS the Borrower has applied to the Govennment of West 
Bengal (hereinafter referred to as “the GOVERNMENT’’) for a loan of 
ا ہے ا‎ UTIOON ہے رو سی چی سس‎ ۱ to build house wpon the said 
land hereditaments and premises respectively for letting out the same on 
rent as the residence of such employees of the Borrower having an income 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2937 


সপ সু ৯৯ 


not exceeding Rs. 0000 per annum who have no dwelling house or have a 
dwelling house but the same is not sufficient to accommodate such employee 
and his family or selling such houses to such employees of the Borrower 
in consideration of the payment of the value or price thereof either in cash 
simultaneously with the execution of the Deed of Transfer or on hire- 
purchase agreement on terms and conditions to be settled by the Borrower 
with the approval of the Government and the Government has agreed to 
grant a loan of ی108‎ in instalments to the Borrower on certain 
terins and conditions and on the security as hereinafter provided. 


NOW THIS INDENTURE witnesseth and is hereby agreed that the 


said amount of Its..........0.66 يِءء,/,.‎ 0 1 7 ) so agreed to be advanced 
by the Government to the Borrower shall be advanced in instalments follow- 
ing, that is to say:— : 

(a) 20 per cent. of the Joan, viz., ب188‎ 1:51 কা 


a month before the commencement of the construction of the 
buildings by the Borrower; 


(b) 30 per cent. of the loan, viz., Ra..............- (13019865. ...**.০০০০১০০*০০০০১ ) 
on the construction of the said respective buildings being done 
up to the plinth level after the amount advanced as provided in 
sub-clause (a) hereof has been fully and properly spent for the 
purpose aforesaid ; 


(c) The balance 50 per cent. of the loan, viz., م188‎ 
/,۸,ِئ9٤‎ 6 ) on the construction of the said respective 
buildings reaching the roof level after the amount advanced as 
provided in sub-clause (b) has been fully and properly spent for 
the purpose aforesaid. 


NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in consideration of the 
said sum of Rs........... (Rupees...... 27 ) so paid and agreed to be 
paid in instalments as aforesaid the Borrower doth hereby agree and 
covenant with the Governor as follows :— 


1. That the whole amount of the said Joan shall as advanced from 
time to time be wholly and solely applied by the Borrower for the purpose 
of construction of buildings on the said lands hereditaments and premises 
for letting out the same on rent for residential purposes to the employees of 
the Borrower having an income not exceeding Rs. 6,000 (Rupees six thousand) 
per annum who have no dwelling house or have a dwelling house not sufficient 
to accommodate such employee and his family or for selling the same to 
such employees of the Borrower in consideration of the payment of the 
value or the price thereof either in cash simultaneously with the execution 
of the Deed of Transfer or on hire purchase agreement on terms and condi- 
tions to be settled by the Borrower with the approval of the Government and 
the Borrower shall not use or utilise the said sum of Rs............... for any 
other purpose whatsoever and further that the Borrower shall on being 
called upon by any officer or officers of the Government authorised in that 
behalf produce statements of account and supporting vouchers before such 
officer or officers for his or their satisfaction that the said advance has been 
duly utilised and spent for the said purposes. 


2. That the Borrower shall build the honse(s) after having the site 
plan(s), building plan(s), specifications designs, estimates and lay 
out approved by the Government or any of its officer or 
officers authorised in that behalf and that the Borrower shall 
commence the construction of the said building(s) within «a month 
after receipt of the said first instalment that is to say, 20 
per cent. of the loan so advanced to the Borrower and shall duly and 
properly use and utilise the said sum so advanced in such construction 
কালি one month from the date of the said advance and shall satisfy the 
Administrative Officer, Housing, Development Department, Calcutta or the 
District Officer of the district concerned, as the case may be, of same and 
shall forthwith thereafter apply for and obtain the further 30 per cent. 
of the said loan and on receipt of same shall duly and properly use and 
utilise the said sum so advanced in such construction within two months 
from the date of receipt of same and shall satisfy the said Administrative 
Officer or the District Officer, as the case may be, of same and shall forth- 
with thereafter apply for and obtain the balance 50 per cent. of the loan 
and that the construction of the building(s) shall be completed by the 
Borrower within seven months from the commencement of the construction 
of such building(s) and that the plans shall be so prepared that the building(s) 
to be constructed shall each at least be two roomed and shall provide not 
less than 380 square feet and normally not more than 1,200 square feet of 
floor area per unit of accommodation and the Borrower shall afford every 
facility and liberty to any officer or officers of the (tovernment authorised in 
that behalf for inspecting and verifying the construction of the said 
huilding(s) and the materials used therefor. 


8. That the Borrower shall pay to the Government interest at the rate 
of per cent. per annum on the amount for the time being remaining 
due and owing by the Borrower to the Government PROVIDED HOWEVER 
that if the Borrower shall pay the instalments with interest payable on the 
amount of the loan for the time being due and payable by the Borrower to 


2938 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


Part J 


[882 


the Government duly within the period limited for the payment thereof as 
is hereinafter provided then the Government shall accept interest at the 
rate of per cent. per annum in lieu of interest at the rate of per 
cent. per annum. 


4. That the loan so advanced and agreed to be advanced as aforesaid 
shall be repayable by the Borrower in equal instalments the first of 
such instalments being payable within the date fixed by Government and 
the subsequent instalments in the succeeding years respectively and the 
Borrower shall with the payment of each of such instalments pay to the 
Government the interest payable as aforesaid on the said sum of Rs........... ‘ 
or the amount for the time being remaining due and payable bv the 
Borrower to the Government. 


AND THIS INDENTURE FURTHER WITNESSETH 


that in consideration of the said sum of Ra...........( Rupees... ینتا‎ 
advanced and agreed to be advanced in manner aforesaid the Borrower doth 
hereby grant convey mortgage charge and assign unto the Governor All 
Those lands hereditaments and premises hereinafter more particularly 
described in the Schedule hereunder written Together with the right title 
jwterest claim and demand whatsoever of the Borrower to for and in respect 
of the said property of the Borrower to and unto the Governor absolutely 
and for ever subject to the proviso for redemption hereinafter contained 
TOGETHER WITH the respective building(s) and structures to be 
constructed thereon as aforesaid by the Borrower Provided Always and it is 
hereby agreed that if the Borrower shall pay or cause to be duly paid the 
amount of the said advance namely Res............. in manner herein provided 
to the Government with the interest due and payable thereon and shall pay 
all costs and charges as may be incurred by the Government for the recovery 
of the said sum with the interest due thereon then the Governor shall at 
the request and costs of the Borrower reconvey and release the properties 
hereby mortgaged charged transferred and assigned to the Governor as such 
security as is herein provided in favour of the Borrower or as it shall 
require. 


AND THIS INDENTURE FURTHER WITNESSETH that should the 
Borrower fail and/or neglect to observe, perform and fulfil any of the terms 
and conditions and covenants herein contained then notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary herein contained the amount for the time being advanced or 
the whole of the said sum of Rs............. (Rupees...... »০৬৬০০৯০) or the amount 
for the time being remaining due and owing by the Borrower to the Govern- 
ment, as the case may be, with interest thereon as hereinbefore provided 
shall forthwith become due and payable by the Borrower to the (Government 
and shall be recoverable as a public demand under the Public Demands 
Recovery Act. ۲ 


The Schedule above referred to: 


Note.—Plense insert here the description of the lands of the Borrower 
on which the Buildings are to be constructed. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE Borrower hath hereunto set 
and subscribed its hand and seal the day, month and year first above written. 


THE COMMON SEAL of the Bor- 
rower has been affixed hereto by 
and 
who have also affixed their signature 
hereto in the presence of سے‎ 


ern 


Community Development Projects Tatra বিভাগ । 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
NOTIFICATION নং ২৮৮৬জি,এ। 
No. 2886G.A. 
No. 5782C.D.P.—10th July 1956.—The Governor 22 
is pleased to appoint Shri Aswini Kumar Banerjee, as care 


Block Development Officer, Binpur II National 
Extension Service Block in the district of Midna- 
ore, temporarily to hold charge, in addition to 
ee duties, of the Jhargram and Binpur I Blocks 
in the same district, until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 


8. K. BANERJT, 


Dy. Development Commissioner and 


ez officio Dy. Secy. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 2767G.A. /2P-46/56.—21st 
July 1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 164 of the Criminal Pro- 
cedure Code, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the Governor 
is pleased to empower Shri Sudhindra Kumar 
Chanda. Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Magistrate 
of the Second Class. Raigunj, West Dinajpur, to 
record any statement or confession made to him 
in the course of an investigation under Chapter 
XIV of the said Code or at any time afterwards 
before the commencement of enquiry or trial. 


By order of the Governor, 


৪. N, RAY, Chief Secy, 


Part IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


2939 


oo TTETEeEeeeeeeee rr rrr TEE 


ATS AE ২৭৬৫জ)এ।২পি-৪৪1৫৬।--২১এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
_দার্জীলঙ জেলার অবেক্ষাধীন উপ-শাসক শ্রীসত্যেন্দ্রনারারণ চৌধুরীকে 


দ্বিতীয় শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পশ করা হইল। 
Darjeeling,—No. 


276hG.A. /2P-44/56.—21st 


July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri 
Satyendra Narayan Choudhury, Deputy Magis- 
trate, on probation, Darjeeling, with the powers 


of a Magistrate of the Second Class. 


পশ্চিম দিনাজপ্যর।-নং ২৭৬৮জ)এ।২পি-৪৫1৫৬।--২১এ জুলাই 
১৯৫৬।--পশ্চিম দিনাজপুর জেলার বাপৃরঘাটের অবেক্ষাধশীন উপ-শাসক 
TSA BHAT প্রথম শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 


West Dinajpur.—No. 2768G.A. /2P-45 /56.—21st 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri 
Tarn Pada Bhattacharjee, Deputy Magistrate, on 
probation, Balurghat, West Dinajpur, with the 


powers of a Magistrate of the First Class. 


বর্ধমান।নং RTS জ,এ।২পি-৪৯।৫৬।--২৫এ AWN ১৯৫৬।- 
বর্ধমান সদরের উপ-শাসক শ্রীবমলরঞ্জন চক্রবর্তিকে দশ্ডপ্রণালশ সংহতার 
২৬০ ধারায় বার্ণত অপরাধের বিচার কারবার ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 


Burdwan. — No. 2794G.A. /2P-49/56. — 26th 


Jaly 1956.—The (Governor is 


pleased to vest 


Shri Bimal Ranjan Chakraborty, Deputy Magis- 


trate, Burdwan Sadar, with the 


powers to try 


summarily the offences mentioned in section 260 


of the Code of Criminal Procedure. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


Judicial 
Appointments and Transfers 


Birbhums—No. 4604J.—18th July 1956.—In 


exercise of the power conferred 


the Bengal Village Self-Government Act, 
(Bengal Act V of 1919), the Governor is pleased 
to appoint the following members of the Kapista 


Union Board within the 
Mahommad Bazar in the Sadar 


by section 65 of 


1919 


police-station of 
subdivision of 


the district of Birbhum to be, during their term 
ot office as such members, a union bench within 
the jurisdiction of the said union buard for the 


purposes of that section :— 
(1) Shri Gobinda Chandra Mondal. 
(2) Shri Bhabataran Ghosh. 
(3) Shri Kalipada Brahma, 
(4) Shri Atul Krishna Saha. 
(5) Shri Lala Shyamji Prosad. 


Birbhum.—No. 4605J.—18th 


J uly 1956.—In 


exercise of the pwoer conferred by section 73 of 
the Bengal Village Self-Government Act, 


(Bengal Act V of 1919), the Governor is 
to appoint the following members of the 
nion Board’ within the 
Mahammad Bazar in the Sadar 


K 


1919 
leased 
apista 


police-station of 
subdivision of 


district of Birbhum to be, during their term of 
office as such memebers, a union court within the 
jurisdiction of the said union board for the pur- 


poses of that section :— 
(1) Shri Gobinda Chandra Mondal. 
(2) Shri Bhabataran Ghosh. 
(3) Shri Kalipada Brahma. 
(4) Shri Atul Krishna Saha. 
(5) Shri Lala Shyamji Prosad. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 4518J.—16th July 1956.—In exercise of 
tho power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
£ of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
‘Specinl Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1949), the Governor is pleased to distri- 
Nte to the Jabpaiguri-Darjeeling Special Court 


১0081208690. by notification 


o, 4682J., dated the 


,Ibrahim Road, 


22nd August 1962, under section 2 of the said 
Act, the following cases involving offences speci- 
fied in the schedule to the said Act, to be tried 
hy the said Special Court سے‎ 


Cases 


The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjan 


Guha Thakurta, Nazir, 
Municipality, son of Surendra 
Kyumar وف‎ Thakurta, a4 { 4 
Ibrahim Road,  police-station [Tol 

gunge, district 24-Parganas, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, (2) Nimai 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern [pye- 
writer Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 
Chandra Pal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 
4200/1208, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountant, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra Mallik, 23 Morgan’ Road, 
Darjeeling, under section 420/109, 
চি Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 392A/ 


Darjeeling 


2. The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjan 


Guha Thakurta, Nazir, 
Municypality, son of Surendra 
Kumar (ruha Thakurta, ا‎ 
Ibrahim Road, police-station Tol 

pan e, district 24-Parganas, unden section 
20/1308, Indian Penal Code, (2) Nimai 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern Tpye- 
writer Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 
Chandra Pal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountant, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra Mallik, 23 Morgan Road, 
Darjeeling, under section 420/109, 
ye Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 392B/ 


Darjeeling 


3. The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjau 


Guha Thakurta, Nazir, Darjeeling 
Municypality, gon of Surendra 
Kiumar Guha 


Thakurta, athe 
police-station Tol 

gunge, district 24-Parganas, under section 
42001 12013) Indian Penal Code, (2) Nimai 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern Tpye- 
writer Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 
Chandra Pal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station §Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountant, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra Mallik, 23 Morgan Road, 
Darjeeling, under section 420/100 
পা Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 392C/ 


4. The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjan 


Guha Thakurta, Nazir, Darjeeling 
Municiality, son of Surendra 
Kumar Guha Thakurta, 34 ie 
Tbrahim Road,  police-station Tolly- 


gunge, district 24-Parganas, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, (2) Nimai 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern Tmye- 
writer Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 
Chandra Pal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountant, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra = Mallik, 23 Morgan Road, 
Darjeeling, under section  420/1 


09 
i Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 392D/ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956‏ را1 


SSS RT 


6. The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjan 


Guha Thakurta, Nazir, Darjeeling 
Municipality son of Surendra 
Kumar Guha Thakurta, 34/4 
Ibrahim Road _ police-station ‘Tolly- 


guuge, district 24-Parganas, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, (2) 11010) 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern Tpye- 
writer (Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 


Chandra Fal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 


420/120B, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountant, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra Mallik, 23 Morgan Road, 
Darjeeling, under section 420/109, 
Indian Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 392E/ 
64). 

6. The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjan 
Guha Thakurta, Nazir, Darjeeling 
Municipality son of Surendra 
Kumar Guha Thakurta, 341 4 
Ibrahim Road  police-station Tolly- 
gunge, district 24-Parganas, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, (2) Nimai 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern Tpye- 
writer Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 


Chandra Yal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 


420/120B, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountant, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra Mallik, 23 Morgan Road, 
Darjeeling, under section 420/109, 
اہ‎ Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 37| 
7. The State versus (1) Sudhanshu Ranjan 
ha Thakurta, Nazir, Darjeeling 
Municipality son 0 Surendra 
Kumar Guha Thakurta, 44 { 4 
Ibrahim Road police-station Tolly- 
gunge, district 24-Pargaiias, under section 
420) 120B, Indian Pena] Code, (2) Nimai 
Chandra Pal, Proprietor of Modern Tipve- 
writer (Co., Calcutta, son of Lakshman 
Chandra Pal, of Ramchandra- 
pur, police-station Sankrail, dis- 
trict Howrah, under section 
420/120B, Indian Penal Code, and (3) 
Nitai Chandra Mallik, Accountunt, 
Darjeeling Municipality, son of Abinash 
Chandra Mallik, 23 Morgan Road. 
Darjeeling, under section 420/109, 
سا‎ Penal Code (G.R. Case No. 0. 


West Dinajpur-Malda.—No. 4675J.—24th July 
956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (2) of section 4 of the West Hengal 
Criminal Law Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 
1949 (West Bengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor 
is pleased to distribute to the West Dinajpur- 
Malda Special Court constituted by notification 
No. 4632J., dated the 22nd August 1952, under 
section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
ik said Act, io be tried by the said Special 

—: )07ا 


Case 


The State versus (1) Probodh Chandra Neogi, 
S. B. Clerk of Raiganj Sub-Post Office, son 
of late Chandra Kanta Neogi, and (2) 
Dulu alias Brojo Gopal Das, son of Nitya 
Gopal Das, of Khadimpur, Balurghat—both 
the accused are charged under section 42C, 
Indian Penal Code. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


[Parr I 
Registration 
NOTIFICATIONS 
Malda.—No. 560Regn.—17th July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shr 


i Bejoy 

Kumar Roy, Sub-Registrar of Malda, be 
Joint Sub-Registrar of Malda, in the district of 
Malda, with eftect trom the date on which he 
assumes charge of office. 


No. 567Regn.—20th July 1956.—The over. 
nor is pleased to rescind so much of the orders 
contained in this department notification 
No. 983Regn., dated 14th December 1955, an 
relates to the appointment of Shri Ranjit 
Choudhury, son of Shri Jadab Ch. Choudhury, 
as Sub-Registrar, on probation. 


24-Parganas.—No. 568Regn.—20th July 1956. 
The Governor is pleased to rescind this depart- 
ment notification No. 935 HRegn., dated 14th 
December 1955, appointing Shri Ranjit Chou. 
dhury, Probationary Sub-Registrar, to act as 
Sub-Registrar of 24-Parganas, to be ordinarily 
stationed at the headquarters of the district of 
the 24-Parganas. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 


Audit 


NOTIFICATION 

No. 3145F./F/4A-10/56.—1]8th July 1956.— 
Governor is pleased to extend the term of 8 
ment of Shri Subodh Kumar Ghosh, ১489, 
(Retired), as Member, Application Committee 
under the Finance Department, for the period 
up to 915 August 1956 with effect from lat 
June 1956. 

By order of the Governor, 


DAS GUPTA, Secy.‏ .ظط 


Taxation 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 1578F.T.—21st July 1956.—The Governor | 
18 pleased to allow the চিনির five retired Sub- 
Deputy Collectors and one Deputy Collector, now 
temporarily re-employed as Commercial Tax 
Officers, to continue to act as such offrcers, for ৪ 
further period 7 to 9186 July 1956, with effect 
from the date following the date of expiry of their 
respective present term :—. 
(1) Shri Rajendra Chandra Sen, retired Sub- 
Deputy Collector. 


(2) Shri Ramani Mohan Majumdar, retired 
Sub-Deputy Collector. 


(9) Shri Soroshi Mohan Das Gupta, retired 
Sub-Deputy Collector. 


(4) Shri Kalipada Nayak, retired Sub-Deputy 


Collector. 

(6) Shri S. M. A. Mirza, retired Sub-Deputy 
Collector. 

(6) Shri Monomohan Sarkar, retired Sub- 


Deputy Collector. 


No. 1579F.T.—2]st July 1956.—The Governor 16 
pleased to allow Shri Anubhuti Bhattacharyya, 
retired W.B.C.S., now temporarily re-employed ۸ 
Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, ۵ 
continue to act as such officer for a further period 
up to the 3lst July 1956, with effect from the date 
following the date of expiry of his present term. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


294) 


rc na a লিটল লুল RR OT PB FE‏ جننچچچچ شس سس سے سے ان 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES, 


WEST BENGAL 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 68C.T.—20th July 1956.—In 


Serial Namo of tho dealer. 
No. 


0 


1 2 8 


1 7). 04. ۵6٥ 6B Fakir Haldar Lane, 
Calcutta. 


2 চা) pa Dwarkadas ای‎ eee Avenue, 
۰ cu a 


8 H. E. Chandra’s 
Jewellery & 


Money Garlahat Corporation 
Exchange. 


Market, Calcutta. 


4 L.L. Madhuri Ice-cream 3. N. Mitra Lane, Burd- 
Factory. wan. 


6 Bedding House . B Le. Hati Road, 
Burdwan. 


6 Basanta 


Kumar Riswasingha Road, 
Lakhotis. Cooch ehar. 


7 Agarwal Company -- Biswasingha Road, 
ee Cooch Bohar 


8 Meners. Kailash Nath Rai 68 Monohardas Street, 


Banshidhar Ral, Ltd. Calcutta 
0 Messrs. Lurmi Textiles 201B Harrison Road, 
Calcutta. 


10 Mesara. Ganesh Bhandar 57 Clive Street, Calcutta 


11 Jagadish Prosad 29/1 Armenian &treet, 
mprakash. Caloutta. 
12 Gourishankar Tulsiram.,., at eer Street, 
18 Mesars. 11. Ghosh .. 62 Netaji = 2080, 
Calout 
14 Ramrikhdas Soduram .. Kallmpong or 


15 Messrs. Oriont Cosmetics কি Eerie House, & 
: Dalhousie Square, 
(Private), Ltd و‎ 


৮? Radha Bazar Street,‏ ۔ 
Trad Fi weal‏ یو نس 16 


ursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 


Address and chief place رسس ای‎ 
f business. lace of 
uslness. 


Block No. 0, Stall No. 2, Calcutta-1 


(Sales Tax) Act, 


1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 


the following names and addresses of newly 
registered dealers together with a descryption of 


the goods covered by their 
are published for general 


2 and date Goods for use in manufacture or 


registra- in the execution of contracts. 
tlon __certifi- ۱ 
cate. 
5 6 
BH/2816A, rer 
10-7-56. 
BH /2817A, e@eteeasn 
10-7-66. 
BH/247B,  )1( Baw materials. 
0 (2) Plant, machi 
nt, machinery, s 
and accessories. او ات‎ 
(8) Consumable storea, viz. Nitric 
acid, sulphuric acid. 
Provided that all goods for which 
ope 01 from pay ment of 
18 claimed are পা 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below :— 
(2 Gold and silver ornaments, 
81) Silver money. 
1 (1) Raw materials. 
7-7-56, (2) Plant, ই, spare parts 


and accessories 
(8) লাশ দশ stores, viz., sticks 
for candy, তি "paper, 
compressor 


22 cups, gas 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual proceas of 
ao cla of the goods named 

ow سے‎ 


Tce, ice-cream. 
BN/1160A, a Raw materiala. 
12-7-56. (2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories 
(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is clalm are in- 
tended for use in the actual 
proceas of manufacture of the 
goods named below :-— 


Mosquito curtains, bedding 
requiaites. 


CB/625A, eee 
6- 766. 

07/243, + wens 
10-7-56. 

087 701A, ৪৬৩৪৬ 
کا‎ 

0831/2702۸, esse 
10-7-68. 

wees‏ ,ش086۸ 
.11-0 

6086114, wane 
2- -56, 

OSIT/S880A, ৬৯৪ 
2-7-56. 

CSIV /2352A, ৪৬৩৪ 
11-7-66. 


DJ 18988, 72 Raw materials. 
10-7-56. 2 টস machinery, spare parts 


6৪. 
($) انس سا‎ stores, viz., coal 
and 5. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from ope dating of 
salea tax فا‎ claim are in- 
tended for use in the actual pro- 
0985 of manufacture of the 
goods named belows :— 


¢) Horse-shoe. 
cia) Quilt, 
tv) سال‎ 7 
EL/8156A, ee 
10-7-66. 
ডা seas 
218-17-8. 


registration certificates 
information :— 


Goods for resale. 


7 


Iron and steel, cement کیہ‎ and 
ateol, jolsta, brass rods 


Bricks, atonechi vel, sand 
lime, brickbats. কর 


Stones, tissue paper, cardboard 


box, Olastic 


Cotton, gamcha, m اس راو‎ 
bed siesta, ماس٥ا‎ হর 
61811), long’ cloth, ae 


Tobacco leaves, jute and gunny 
bags. 


General merchandise as and when 
required and certified for resale. 


Gold and sive bullion, Sovereign 
and specie. 


Textiles. 
Al) kinds of spices. 


Mill-made cloth. 
Mill-made cloth. 


All classes of canvas, heesian, jute 
twine, flax twine, brass cyelets, 
ware, gee t, cotton, 


brass ucts, co 
এ, iron বসা — 


and 86661 products, rites‏ ال 

giase-panes, crockery, oot 
Lease mirror, ready-made gar- 
ments, 


Hoop Irons, ol 
কাস সঃ সপ fasteners, 


পি digg سا‎ and 


2942 
Serial Name of the dealer. Address | and ام‎ chief of place Additional 
0. 
7 
1 3 8 4 
17 Messrs. Diamond Art 37۸ Bentinck Street, 1% 
Press. Calcutta. 
ر9‎ 
292 Banaras Road, 0391. 


18 Messrs. Bhargab 10081- 
neering Works. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 
১৯১৯১১৯৯৯৯২ 


gachia, Horah. 


19 Mesars. چس‎ Chemical 19 21017751015] Bahahwaila 


Industries. 


90 Messrs. A. K. Dey & Bros. 


21 Surja Narayan Banwar 


2% Lakhmichand 
cehand. 


23 Raynold and Company 


86 Saha & Co.—Partners 
1) Shyamal Kanti 

(2) Sarashi Bala 
Saha. 


The Raiganj People’s 
= Oo operative Henk, 


26 Messrs. Nash & 00. * 


Amar- 8 লা Subhas Road, 
Calcutta. 


Oo Ball‏ ۔ 
Howrah ৬‏ 
Hriday Krishna‏ ,56 
Banerjee Lane,‏ 
Howrah.‏ 


Buxa Road, Buxaduar, 
Jalpaiguri. 


- 


24 Notaji Subhas Road, 
Calcut 


Imambari Lane, Maida 


Raiganj, West Dinaj- 


pur. 


112A Corowallis Street, 
Calcutta. 


Messrs. Sree Panchavan 264B U Chitpore‏ ہو 
Dey & Sons. Road, Calcutta.‏ 
Mission Row Bue‏ 1۳21 ہے Mesare. Pesfumes‏ $6 
tension, Caicu‏ 


2775 HW-1716 


No. and date 


for use in manufacturo or 


Goo 
of registra- in the execution of contracts. 


tion certifi- 


cate. 
৬ 


EL/8158A, 
12-7-66. 


6-7-68 6, 


HW-1717A, 
10-7-66. 


HW-1718A, 
10-7-66. 


JIP-1484A, 
.56۔7 ج‎ 


LR-2686A, 
6-7-56. 


LR-2686A, 
6-7-56. 


ML-4438A, 
9-7-66. 


ML-444A, 
11-7-66. 


,ھ811-247 
.6-7-56 


SH-2448A, 
11-7-66, 


23222 


ft Raw materials, 

2 ) Bien, machinery, sparo parts 
d accessories. 

(3) ¢ Cansumablo ,1 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is olalm aro in- 
tendod for uso in the actual pro- 
cess of manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 


Printed matters. 


A, 5 Raw materials. 


Plant, 0000677۰ spare 08৮৮ 
and 80998801198 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 


Pump. 


(1) Raw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
es tax is claimed are in- 
tended for use in the actual pro- 
cess of manufacture of the goods 
named belows :— 


Sf stant nilicate. 


Raw materials, timber and im- 
plementa. 


Provided that all goods for which 
ty a from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are eo 
for use সা the actual process 
manufacture of sawn اس‎ 
logs and sleepers. 


eee0 5 


&} ae materials. 


(8) Consumable stores, 5155 
copper, lead and 0102 acid. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
on agregar 2৪ 

or use in actual 
of manufacture of the goods 
named below سس‎ 


Refined i and silver for 


[Pant I 


Goods for resale. 


Paper. 


Squire round, flat joist, angle, tea 
plates, 


Sawn timber. 


Gold, শিক" colr, strings, ropes, لاہ‎ 
seeds, } 


, gunny, jute ا‎ 
jecra, পাস * 0180108, fron & 


steel, 


Hardware stores, slectrical 


and equipments, 
machinery and spares, 
neering tools, 
plant, machinery, 
spare parts, fron and steel 
castings, screws, bolta and nut, 
pig tron, | aluminium. brass, tins, 
সরা lead and antimony, 
bo tubes, lamp, lamp fittings 
and parte, spare parts of mo 
vehicles, Ree and 


and 596], ভি 

চি fic equipments, "equates 
surgical 7 
coir and ০018 ol products, ینم ار‎ 


crookery, glass Ware, 
varnishes, oils, 900 aad 
and heating appliances. 


Coal, 


Handloom cloth, soft coke and 
salt, 


(6) Homeopathic medicine, 
homeopathic books, homeo- 
pathic boxes, corks, sugar of 


(6) Gold, silver and Guineas, 


Essential ofl, 


Parr T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, aUGUST 2) 1956 2943 
Seria Name of tho dealer. Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for use In manufacture or Goods for resale. 
No. of business. place of of  roegistra- in the execution of contracta. 


business. tion  certifi- 


cate. 
1 2 8 4 & 


20 Messrs. Chandra and 1210 Bowbagar Street, ee 8L-2987 
Brothers. Calcutta, 20-6-56. 


8-7-0. 


6 7 


A, 0 Raw materials. ৩৩৪৬ 
2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories 
(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
snlos tax د۱‎ claimed aro intended 
for use in the actual process of 
ae acture of the goods named 

OW سے:‎ 


Ornaments (gold and silver), 


80 Mesars. Paul Company a ao Street, me SL-2088A, 1) Raw materials. Peers 
alcutta. 


2) Plant, machinery, spare parta 
and accessories. 
(8) Consumables stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual) process of 
সু of the goods named 

0۷٢ سے‎ 


Ornamenta (gold and silver), 


31 Measrs. Durga Corpora- 18 Chandne Chowk ৪৬ 8L-2080A, wean Fountaln pens. 


ey (India) Private, Street, Calcutta. 8-7-56. 


32 Moaars. Sterling (India) 85 Chittaranjan Avenue, ee 81-0۵۰, (1) Raw materials. Pee 
Co. Calcutta. 


4-7-56. 


$8 Messrs. 
Skin Corporation. 


(2) Plant, machiery, spare parte 
and accessories. 
(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed aro intended 
for use In the actual process of 
manufacture of the 
below :— 


Iron-plate, Washer. 


International 8 Madan Street, Calcutta an 8-0, নও Raw skins. 
4-77-56.) 


$4 Mesara Hindusthan 1A 8. N. Banerjee Road, ee TL-2015A, 6ہ‎ সিনা filter paper, bromo, thymo! 


esara. 
Industrial Corporation. Calcutta. 10-7-0. 


acid, carboys, pastine, hyflo 
supercol, magsulph, formal de- 
hyde, pigmente, dyes, lubricat- 
ing vil, recorder-charts, Wires 
jars, benzene and — nickel 
formate. 


No. 69C.T.—20th July 1956.—Jn pursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
denlers whose registrations under the Act were 


amended with effect from the date noted against 
each of them and in respect of the particulars 
appearing in the different columns in the manner 
indicated against such particulars are published 
for general information :— 


. Addressand chief 01809 01 Additional No. and date Goods 10. use in manufacture Goods for resale. Date of 
ia و سو سیت سیت‎ business. place of of registration or in the meer of the amend- 
business. cortificates. contract. ment. 
1 2 8 4 5 ° 6 7 8 
1 (8) Bongal Friends 8o- 153 Upper Chitpore Road, ৪ BDI/1507A, ৪:৪০ Tr 6-7-66 . 
clety Private Ltd., for Calcutta. 7-90-48, 
[08৮ Friends Society 
2 (8) Debendra 01] Mille (8) 121 Raja Dinendra তি BDI/736A, ری‎ 220 10-7-50. 
for Debendra Nath Street, Calcutta, for 25-0-1۰ 
011 Mills 121 ہزملا‎ Dobendra a 
Narayan Street, Cal- 
cutta. 
3 (8) Ajanta Plastic Pri- 184A and B Vivekananda a BDI /2484A -7 و‎ 10-7-60. 
vate Ltd., for Ajanta Road, Calcutta. 19-2-4. ৬৯ 
Plaatic. 
4 Messrs. Purushottamdas 20 Mullick Streot, Cal- cs 00 4, (A) Iron 4 .. 11.70 
Tularam cutta. 20-12-1055. oe 
1 tty Streot .. CSI 26984, (D) Hoalery than and A, B. (D) Hostory goods. 11-0. 
کت بط - 73 ا‎ কিল শট পক 22-68-56. certified by the purchasing (A) Cotton textiles. 
[1 ۰ dealer to be roquired for use 
in any process fn the 7۰+ 
facture of “hosiery goods’’ 
for sale. 
6 Messre,Chunilal Dugar 46, Strand Road, Calcutta ut হি ইল : اس نہیں‎ cloth, catechu 11-7-5. 
রী , Oaloutta a 6811/5288۸, spares (A) Gold, allver, sink bare, 8۰7-6 
7 سس ا‎ Indra- 190 08089 4 22-97-58. umbrellas, ates! trunk, 
and. Rajans, wire-ropes, 


2944 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 [Part I 


Serial Name of the dealer. Addrossand chief place of Additional No. and date Goods for uso 11) manufacture Goods for resale. Date of 
No. 10008870988, পা of of registration or in the excoutinn of the amend- 
usiness. certificates. contract. ment. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
8 )D.A.Mehra .. 934Armenain Street, Cal- 7 0811/254۸, وو او‎ (0) Hardware, tron, 86661, .56۔8۰‎ 
outta. 20-01. pipe, crude তা china 
clay, felapar, calcide, soap 
stone powder. 
(A) Steel bars, steel flateand 8.7 
galvanised pipvu. 
dSewmg Thrend (8) 8 Portuguese Church 2 08171199664, 0+ oe 8-7-56. 
ا‎ See Street, Caloutta, for 16-0-2. 
۹ Karbala Md. 8৮৪৩৮, 
Calcutta. 
10 The Malabar OColr 6 Amratolla Lane, Cal- کک ,0811/32104 کن‎ (A) Broom atick, Jute school 6-7-66. 
‘ Supply Co. cutta. 14-3-55. mattings and jute ropes. 
B Singh Karnwat 72 Canning Street, Cal- ae OSIT/1054A, کہ‎ (D) Piece-goods, yarn, optical 5-7-6۰ 
سو کی‎ cutta. 12-56-48. سس‎ fancy goods, per- 
umery goods, graphite, 
lead napthenate. 
(A) Red oxide, dolomite, slate, 6-7-56. 
قد الہ‎ fireclay, bentomite, 
China clay, soap 8000, 
lime stone, asbestos, grna- 
phite, mica, barytes. 
odas Suraj Karan 15 Noormal Lobia Lane, ik 0811/3714 thes (A) Umbrella ribs -. 5-7-6 
سصید اس‎ হাত? Caleusta. 27-8-46. 
18 Mesars. A. J. Shellim & 135 Canning Street, Cal- on 08771116114, rr (A) Shellac, seedlac »» 11-7-56, 
Uo. Private Ltd. outta. 8-5-50, 
esars Jagannath Pro- 189 Canning Street, Cal- Howrah(1) OSIII/169B, نا‎ (D) General merchandise .. 11-7-56. 
= এস Agarwalls. cutta. 10-5-55. (A) Paper, board, statione 
goods, all kinds of boo 
oven ٠ binding materials, steel 
trunk, suit case, round 
nut, steel trunk and ৪1 
case requisites, aint, 
varnish, tinplates, black 
shects, black asheot cutt- 
7 ee ings, rod, bar, angles, 
‘. squares, hardware goods. 
Moesars. Ganga Metal 43 Strand Road, Calcutta জজ CSIV /2108A, enue পতি 11 0 
15 (92 Company 842) 
Private Ltd., for 
Mosars Ganga Metal 
Refining mpany 
Ltd. 
8) Messrs. New Ameri- 170 Harrison Road, Cal- re CSIV/1578A, cine cane 11-7-56. 
885 سا‎ Gold and Watch cutta. 21-12-48. ہے‎ 
Co., for Mesars. New 
American Gold. 
17 8 Dineah- Siliguri = ue DJ/545A, err (A) Groundnut 04866. 
kumar. 28-8-00, 
18 Dungarmall Bnjmohan 5101801 ru সর ant fee (A) (1) Raw materials. وی‎ 9-7-58 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parte and accessorics. 
(8) Consumable stores, vis., 
machine 01) 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use In the actual ماف‎ of 
manufacture of t goods 
named below :— 
Umbrellas. 
{jnath Siliguri ee ee DJ/836A, fies (A) Hardware oo 10-78-6865 
19 Ramjiram Baljna 21562. 
20 (5) Mesars. Harshadray 22 Brabourne Road, (081. eo EL/2079A eace 0ھ‎ 6-7-56. 
Private Ltd., for cutta. 24-4-60. 
Messrs. . 080571 
Ltd. 
M . International 14/2 Old China Bazar -۰ (8) ee (A) G. I. stra 3, I. pin 6-7-56, 
2 اس‎ সু Corpo- 81 Calcutta. EL /236B, bolte, G. I bolte and. nutes, 
rations. or standard wire, stay rods. 
27/30. 
2160-0-5۰, 
7 নি) Moears. Victory Sup- 6010 Chinabazar Strect, ew BL/2132A, err Gree 0۰.70 
2 5 Agency Private Calcutta. 16-7-60. 
Pia . for Victory 
Supply Agency Ltd. 
Messrs. Arun Ghosh ৮ 1 British Indian Street, ae EL/2220A, তি ete 10-7-56. 
= Co. Private Ltd for Calcutta. 2-12-50. 
Mesars. Arun Ghosh 
& Co. 
7-66 
24 (9) Mesers. Rharat 6 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta or EL/297A, sen err 117-0, 
: Ware Housing (Pri- 20-56-55. 
vate) 146৫.) jor Menare. 
Jsharat Ware Housing 
Ltd. 
۰ es L/1866A A) Consumable stores, 12. ver 12-1-60. 
25 21٥۵۶۵۰ Bonar Bros & Co. পা Ai Hare 90০৮, Cal E / 46, * ‘ سس ا‎ surgical dressing, 
° surgical instruments, 
metal container for manu- 
7 facture of first ald box. 
26 (8) Mesers Sankar Iron 62-1 Dr. Abant Dutta ae HW/2161A, ৮০৪০ 10-7-0. 
Engineerin Works Road, Howrah, 26-0-50. 


পু گا‎ 10৮ 
easty নিয়া) Sron 
Knyinecring Works. 


Part I] 


Boral 
No. 


27 


29 


30 


81 


84 


85 


40 


41 


42 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETT 


5, AUGUST 2, 6 


or in the execution of the 
contract. 


6 


(A) (1) Raw materials 


(2) Plant, سس‎ spare 
parte and accessories 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended 102 
use in the actual process 
of manutacture of the 
goods named below سے‎ 


(4) Fane oil glyce- 
ne, 
(it) Refined ant deoduri- 
sed cocoanut oil. 
(A) (1) Raw materials 


(2) Plant, machine 8006 
parts and accesso 0৪. 

Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
Claimed are intended ee 
uee in the actual a 
manufacture of the দিল 
named below :— 


0 Cushion cover. 
qt) Hooda. 


٭ ٭ ےھ 


Name of the dealer. Address and chief place of Additional No. and date Goods for use in manufecture 
business. lace of of rogixtration 
Usiness. certificates. 
2 8 7 6 

NimaiChandra Dhar & Khagra, Murshidabad ., (A) Bol 8 

Shyama Charan Dhar. danga. 8 
KR 9014, 
21-0-8. 

(8) 10178000718 Engineer- 23-24 Strand Road, 081. xs LH/2461A, 

ng Works (Private) cutta. 15-8-52. 
» Jor Dhakuria 

Engincerlog Works, 

Ltd. 

(9) General یں‎ 5 Clive Row, Calcutta .. ee LB /209B, 
Private Ltd., 27-7-50. 
General Dealers L 

(8) Tho سو ہیا‎ 4 Lyons Range, Calcutta a LB/1394A, 
lt Manu- 20-0-47. 
facturing Oo. Private 
Ltd., for The Hindus- 
than Vanaspati Manu- 
facturing Co., Ltd. 

(8) Shreo Sitarain Jute 6 Clive Row, Caloutta 5 ر107‎ 
6870] Agency Pri- 83-8-6. 

. Jor Bhree 
Sitaram Jute Supply 
Agenoy Ltd. 
7 مس‎ Saw 4 011৬8 Ghat Street, 081. 8۴7 LR/1287A, 
Mills Ltd cutta. 28-9-46, 

(8) Manipur Tea Oo. & Royal Exchange Place, ٣ LR/156A, 
Private a Calcutta. -9-41. 

Manipur Tea Co, Ltd. 

Boving & Co., Ltd. .. (8) 21 Netaji Subhas Road, <i LE/21265A, 

Calcutta, C/o Mesars. 13-8-§1. 
৪ Halmer Lawrie & Co. 7 
س۴‎ 
2 Fairlie Place, Calcutta. 
(8) Mohini Bastralaya— KEaliagunj, West Dinajpur -٦٢ ML/418A, 
Partner (1) Shri 27-2-56. 
Sitaram eswart 
2) Shri‘ Bhowrllal 
heswari, 
Jor 

Mohini Bastralaya. 

Moasrs. The Tata Oil 2Saklat Place, Calcutta ae §8L/1678A, 
Mills Co., Ltd., Sales 26-09-41. 
Office. 

87 Mesara. Shishir Indus- 157A Dhoramtolla Street, 8/1777 
tries. Calcutta. 27-8-40. 

(8) Moasrs, Latham 80 Ganesh Chandra Ave- -7 8/27634, 
Abencrombile & Co. nue, Calcutta. 25-11-54. 
Private ১ 

81699. নি Aben- 
crombie & Co., Ltd. 

৪) Messrs. Asia Engine (নি) ۰۱ Bontick Street, - (8) 
এ alin و‎ Stores Calcutta, 81/2901۸ 
er L for for 
Mesars. Asla Ruginecr- P-14 Mission Row KEx- 18111657648 
ing Supply Stores. tonaion, Calcutta. 12-4-48, 

(8) 81668. Chandra & 116/fand 117 Bowbasar (A) (a), চা (৪) 
Sons (Private) Ltd. Street, Calcutta. um (1). 810/220, 

(b) ) Asansol for 
; SL/1770A, 
10-8-49. 
Messrs. Kanwal Motora (8 27 it Btrect, ae (8) 
۱ 7 Calcutta ۲ رو وش‎ 
9 পাচার Lane, 08101) 2۸ل .ھا‎ 

(8) Messrs, Calcutta (8) 21 Bowbaszar Strect, ( 3 
Stores (Private) Ltd., Cal وخ‎ aa A, 

Messrs. 0505 Stores, 156, Radhabazar Strect, mt 1588A, 
Ltd. Oalcutta. 46-4. 


۱۲٥٢۷ notes.—Regarding the amend-‏ ہءا ھ7 
ments made, the fojlowing Code letters have been‏ 
used to indicate the manner in which the parti-‏ 


(A) means “Add’’, 


Goods for rosale. 


(D) General merchandise as 
and when required. 


وہ ہہ 


(1)) means “Delete’. 
(S) means “Substitute”, 


10-7-0 


10-7266, 


10-7-56. 


1071-6, 


1211-7-06, 


11-7-56, 


11-7-0, 


1 1 -7-66, 


20-6-66. 


8-7-56. 


8-7-6566. 


4-7-56. 


4-7-56, 


5-7-56. 


5-00 


culars of a registration have 09978 amended :— 


2946 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETIE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


(Parr 1 


No. 700.T.—2Uth July 1956.—In pursuance of 
the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 


dealers together with a description of the goods 


Serial Name of the dealer. Addreas and chief place 
No. of business. 
1 2 3 
1 Builders Concern .. 68/2 Harish Chatterjoo 
; treet, Calcutta. 
«= Kall Kinkar Chow- Saktigarh, district 
dhury. Burdwan. 
Bastuhara Biri Nripendra Narayan Road, 
: action: পার Behar. 
4 Agarwal Company .. Biswasingha Road, Cooch 
Behar, 
5 Mesaers. Matilal 46 Strand Road, Cal- 
Nemchand. cutta. 
6 Messrs. Bishnupada 130/2 Raja Katra, 
Paul ie Calcutta. 
7 Sarkar Majumdar & 71 Canning Street, 
Co. Calcutta. রা 
8 Messrs. Ratan Storea 137 Canning Street, 
& Agencies Ltd. Calcutta. 
و‎ Sreeram Kundanmall 180 Harrison Road, 
Calcutta. 
Messrs. T.M.Thakore 12 Dalhousie Square 
এ & Co. East, Calcutta. 
. Naraons Cycles 2 Lallbazar Street, 
۰ ভা / Caluctta. 
12 Messrs. New Diamond ھ‎ Lallbazar 89৮০০, 
Presa Ltd. Calcutta. 


18 Bhagirathmal Nath P.O. Rajgan), district 
70১8. Jalpaiguri. 


Additional No. and date of 


place of rogiatration 
0:8. certificate. 
4 6 
oe BH/2488A, 
114-8. 
BN/100ZA, 
0-12-52. 
7 0026 
19-11-52. 
ie CB/82A, 
2 0-52 
aie CSI/264A, 
27-0-41. 
2 0861 9۸, 
28-0-۰. 
و‎ 0811/3272۸, 
20-12-55. 
CS1I1/1172A, 
$-7-46. 
দূর 080 ۸۰ 
27-0-41. 
ae EL/203A, 
20-4-2. 
EL/2848A, 
99-8-4. 
re 21/0۸, 
20-78. 
টি JP/88A, 
“9-41, 


Biri tobacco, 


Pa 


Gols for the use in manu- 
facture or in the execution 
of contracta. 


biri leaves, 
paper, thread, coal, flour 
an (1) any other raw 
materials, (2) plant, machi- 
nery, dpare parts, acces- 
sories «and = = consumablo 
gtores certified by the 
purchasing dealer to be 
required for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of biri for sale. 


eee8 


5৪৬৪৪ 


Non-proprietory medicines, 


pharmaceutical drugs, che- 
micals, rubber goods and 
surgical instruments, casen- 
tial olls, chemicals and 
0105 required for perfumary 
articles and hardware, jute, 
and jute products, ee 
lacquers, thinners (for use 
with paints), shellac, tex- 
পা cotton yarn, = art 
8118, 


Moulding পপ cycle parta 
a 


and accoesoricsa and A, 
3 certified for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of cycle, cycle parts and 
accessories tor sale. 


٣۰ board, ink and other 
inding materials and A, 
B, )0 certified for use in 
any process in the manu- 
facture of printed matters 
and book binding for sale. 


Goods for ۲:۸۵۰ 


Bricks, sand, soorkey, lime, 


stone chips. 

Oilcake, mustard oil, salt, 
dalkalal, molasses, spices, 
cocoanut oll, country 
made ropes, tin, kerosene, 
tobacco, flour, coal. 

Biri ae ee 


General merchandige as and 


when required and certified 
fur reeale. 


Textiles, woollen plece goods, 


fancy plece goods, galla 


8, bullion, kirana goods, 


manihari goods, hardware 
sugar, salt, yarn, jute and 
jute _tabrica, 

tin sheets, ofl 


corrugated 
aceda, 
fruits and vegetable. 


Cigarettes, soaps, matches, 


cigarette paper, cigarette 
tobacco and cigarette 
pipes. 


Patent medicines and drugs 


of all sorts, 60116 soap, 
perfumeries and provision 
stores. 


Goneral mil) stores, belting, 


pickers, leather oods, 
machinery parts, 
gouds, glasaware, motor 
parts, hardware goods. 


Piece goods ae eo 


Surgical appliances, absorbent 


cotton, cotton. 


Cyclo, cycle parts and acces 


009۰, 
Stationery goods we 
Clothes, spices, 1٤1٥661 


cocoanut and mustard olls. 
sugar and su 1 
rb, 


grocery, 
candy, matches and 


soap and betelnut, salt, 
hardware, utenall, old 
and allver, soda, 0) 


oll, groundput. 


7 
covered by their registration certificates whose 
revistrations under the Act were cancelled with 
efiect from the date noted against each of them 
are published for general information :— 


Date of 
cancol- 
lation. 


8 


1 1-7-66. 


12-7-0. 


6-7-56. 


10-7-60. 


6-7-56, 


10-7-0. 


20-0-0, 


12-7-08. 


11-7-60. 


11:7-6, 


11-0۰ 


1 1-97-56. 


6০786, 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2047 


جمس٭تس._.ًحوِ ےو ےو سکے_یطع عٍِچجچھےےھےککےک>إجے-۱۲إجحےحص<بجبے- -ص-٣-[ج[جچ এরা রা‏ 


Serial Name of the dealer. Address 0 chief place of Additional No, and date Goods for use in manufacture Gk 1 1 
No. business. lace of of registration or in the execution of 6106 ০৮০০৪ রে পু 
usiness. certificates. contracts. lation 
1 2 8 4 6 7 8 
14 Krishnagar Public Manmohan Ghose Street, ee ER/647A, Rice, : Pe 
Servants’ Oo-opera- Krishnagar, Nadia. ৫ 46, সক শি দীন ee 5 


tive Stores Ltd. 


16 Annapurna Mistanna Tamlook, Midnapore .. 
Bhandar. 
16 Mesars. Mono Radio 44 Chittaranjan Avenue, 
7 Ltd Calcutta. 


Ezplanatory notes.—Regurding ‘‘goods for use in 
manufacture or in the execution of contracts’ the 
following code letters have been used to indicate 
the meanings noted against each :— 


(A) Other raw materials. 


No. 71C.T.—20th July 1956.—In_ pursuance of 
the provisions of sub-rule (8) of tule 27A of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, it 18 notified for 
general information that the following declaration 
forms have been reported to be lost, destroyed or 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whom 
these declaration forms were issued and are invalid 
for the purpose of the Bengal 6 (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1941, aud Bengal Sales Tax Rules: — 


Sonal No. of the declaration Name, address and rogistra- 
forms reported to be lost, tion certificato number of 


dest r stolen. the registered dealer to 
2 whom issued and from 


whom lost, destroyed or 
stolen. 


(1) (2) 


Messrs. Eaustorn Industrial 
Syndicate, Khagra, Murshi- 
dabad. KR-206A. 


1. A/O-333452 


; “69: d A/1-562712 Huindusthan Jute Dealers Ltd. 
ee 00007000 - 5 Clive Row, Caloutta, 


LR-2244A. 


Mesers. Panchanan Nandy, 
Beltola, Sheoraphully 
Hooghly. SP-712A. 


8 A/0-608395 


CORRIGEN DUM 


No. 76001177260) July (1956.—All entries 
ous aul No. 13 of the notification No. 168C.T., 
dated 6th January 1955, published at page 146 of 
the Caleutta Gazette (Part 1), duted 20th January 


1956, are hereby cancelled. 


A. C. ROY, Commissioner. 


MN /836A, 
0. 7-49, 


gare 
27-09-41. 


1 0186 as and when required. 
Cloth and textile goods. 


(1) Raw materials eo ence 0۔0‎ 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts end accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores, viz., 
sugar, ghee and flour. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of salea tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the g 
named below :— 


€) Sweetmeats. 
88) Nonta. 


Radio componente, valves Radio sots 2-7-56 


ao 
purchasing dealer to bo 


process in the manufacture 
of wireless receivers for 
6. 


(B) Plant, machinery, spare parts. accessories 
and consumable stores. 


(C) Building and 1১101001015 materisis or 
fixtures required for construction, fitting 
out or repair of any building, 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATION 

No. 6873/M.11-34/56.—21]st July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by the Explanation 
to sub-section (1) of section 167 of the Caleutta 
Municipal Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act XXXIIT 
of 1951), the Governor is pleased to declare the 
land and buildings at the premises mentioned in 
the achedule below, as Jand und buildings used hy 
Shree Ramkrishna Mandap Samity, solely tor the 
ipurpose of advancement of an object of  vublic 
utility, namely, as a free public bathing ghut: 


The Schedule 


69/3, Chetla Road, Alipore, 


Premises No. 
Calcutta, 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDIIAN, Jt. Secy. 


MEDICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH 
DEPARTMENT 


Medical 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Midnapore.—No, Med]. /5381/4H-24/56.—13th 
July 1956.—It is notified for the infurmation of 
the general  wqublic. ) ۹ the ventie- 
man named below has donated a sum 
of Rs. 20,000 tor a work of public utilty, 


2948 TITE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr ] 


্ল্্্ল্্্্্ল্ল্ল্শ্স্লা্ন ক‏ ۔۔ے۔_۔مممی سے ےھ 


viz., towards meeting partly the capital cost for 
the establishment of a Thana Henlth Centre at 
Uttar Michagram, police-station Panskura, in the 
district of Midnapore. He has also promised 8 
free gift of 20 bighas of land for the purpose. 
Thanks of Government are hereby publicly con- 
veyed to the donor for his munificence and public 
spirit :— 


Shri Tarak Nath Sinha Roy, village Uttar 
Michagram, 1۳.0. Dehali, district Muidna- 
pore. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. N. CHAKRAVARTI, Secy. 


Calcutta. — No. Medl./5875/CF/1P-42/56.— 
13th July 1956.—The Governor is _pleas- 


ed to grant Dr. Pham SBhusan_ Sur, 
Specialist Anaesthetist and Lecturer in 
Anaesthesia, Medical College and Hospitals, 


Calcutta, earned leave for thirty days with effect 
from the 2nd July 1956 or the date from which 
the leave is actually availed of under file 226(2 
of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part 1. 


Midnapore.—No. Medl./5382/CF/1R-15/55(S). 
—13th July 1956.—The Governor was pleased to 
grant Dr. R. M. Guha Niyogi of the West Bengal 
Medical and Health Service, Assistant Surgeon, 
Subdivisional Hospital, Ghatal, district Midna- 
pore, earned leave for fifty-nine days with effect 
from the 24th October 1955 to the 21st December 
1955 under rule 167(11) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 


This cancels this department notification No. 
Med1.10864/CF/1R-15/58(S), dated the 22nd 
December 1955. 


Calcutta. — No. Medl. /5609/5M-1/56. — 24th 
July 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred b 
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 10, read with 
clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the 
Bengal Medical Act, 1914 (Bengal Act VI of 
1914), the Governor is pleased to nominate 
it.-Genl. D. N. Chakravarti, M.B.B.S. (Luck.), 
D.T.M. & H. (Lond.), D.B. (Lond.), F.N.I., to be 
a member of the West Bengal Medical Council, 
vice Dr. ডি, 0. Das Gupta, resigned. 


Calcutta. — No. Medl./5610/5M-1/56. 24th 
July 1956.—In pursuance of section 7 of the 
Bengal Medical Act, 1914 (Bengal Act VI of 
1914), the Governor is pleased hereby to publish 
the name of Jt.-Genl. D. N. Chakravarti, 
M.B.B.S. (Luek.), D.T.M. & H. (Iond.), D.B. 
(Lond.), F.N.I., who has been duly nominated 
under the provisions of the said Act, to be a 
member of the West Bengal Medical Council, vce 
Dr. B. C. Das Gupta, resigned. 


2. In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (2) of section 10 of the said Act, the 
Governor is pleased hereby to notify the 26th day 
of July 1956 as the date on which the term of office 
of the member mentioned in paragraph 1 above 
shal] commence. 


By order of the Governor, 
N.C, KAR, Dy. Secy. 


Public Health 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Murshidabad-24-Parganas.— No. P.H./2546/1M- 
47/65.—llth July 1956.~—The Governor is pleased 
to transfer Dr. S. N. Choudhuri, M.B., Medical 
Officer, Malariu Control Scheme,  Jangipur, 
Murshidabad, to the post of Medical Officer, 
Malaria Control Scheme, Barrackpore, in the 
district of 24-Parganus, with effect from ihe dute 
on which he takes over charge. 


West. Dinajpur-24-Parganas.—No. P.H./2547/ 
IM-47/55.—1]th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to transfer Dr. D. C. Roy, 
M. B. B. S., Medical Officer, Malaria Con- 
trol Scheme, Balurghat, West Dinajpur, to the 
post of Medical Officer, Malaria Control Scheme, 
Basirhat, in the district of 24-Parganas, with 
effect from the date on which he takes over charge. 


24-Parganas.—No. P.H./2548/1M-47 /55.—J 1th 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to transfer 
Dr. S. K. Banerjee, M.B., Medical Officer, 
Malaria Control Scheme, Alipore, 24-Parganas, to 
the post of Medical Officer, Malaria Control 
Scheme, Diamond Harbour, in the district of 24- 
Parganas, with effect from the date on which he 
takes over charge. 


Midnapore.—No. = PH. /2649/1M-47 /55.—11 th 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to transfer 
Dr, B. C. Sarkar, M. B., Medical Officer, Malaria 
Control Scheme, Midnapore, to the post of 
Medical Officer, Malaria Control Scheme, Kharag- 
pur, in the district of Midnapore, with effect from 
the date on which he takes over charge. 


Howrah-Midnapore.—No. PIT. /2550/1M-47/h5 
—lith July 1956.—The Governor is pleased 0 
transfer Dr. B. N. Bhattacharjee, M.B.BS.. 
Medical Officer, Malaria Control Scheme, Howrah, 
دا‎ the post of Medical Officer, Malaria (Control 
Scheme, Tamluk, in the district of Midnapore, 
with effect from the date on which he takes over 
charge. 


Birbhum-Midnapore.—No. P.H. /2551/1M-47 19১. 


—llth July 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to transfer Dr. 8. C .Chakraborti, M.B.B.S.. 
Medical (fficer, Malaria Control] Scheme, 


Birbhum, to the post of Medical Officer, Malarin 
Coutrol Scheme, Contai, in the district of Midna- 
pore, with effect from the date on which he takes 
over charge, vice Dr, A. K. Saha appoipted as a 
Medical Officer, Thana Health (entre. 


Nadia-24-Parganas.—No. P.H./2552 /1M-47/55 
—llth July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
transfer Dr. B. C. Brahma, M.B., D.P.H., 
Medical Officer, Malaria Control Scheme, ۵۰ 
to the post of Medical Officer, Malaria Control 
Scheme, Baraset, in the district of 24-Parganas, 
with effect from the date on which he takes over 
charge wice Dr R. K. Gupto appointed as a 
Medical Officer, Thana Health Centre. 


iHooghly-24-Parganas.—No. 1۵۸+ | 1 81-471 
55.—l1lth July 1956.—The Covernor is pleased tu 
transfer Dr. 1১, K. Sen, M.B., Medical Ofticer, 
Malaria Control Scheme, Hooghly, to the post of 
Medical (fficer, Malaria Control Scheme, Alipore, 
in the district of 24-Parganas, with effect from the 
date on which he takes over charge, vice Dr 9. K 
Banerjee transferred. 


Malda-Howrah.—No. PTT. /2544/1M 4۔‎ /55.— 
1111) July 1956.—The Governor is pleased $9 
transfer Dr. নি. K. De, M.B.B.S., Medical Officer, 
Malaria Oontrol Scheme, English Bazar, Maldu, to 
the post of Medical (Officer, Malaria Control 
Scheme, Howrah, with effect from the date on 
which he takes over charge, 76৫6 Dr. B. ٢١ 
Bhattacharjee transferred. 


Parr T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2949 


রস 


No. [১.11,1256811 81-4116).--11) July 1996, 
The Governor is pleased to appoint the following 
persons temporarily to act ‘until further orders 
دہ‎ Medical Officers, Malaria Control Scheme under 
the National Malaria Control] Programme,, Weat 
Bengal, with effect from the dates on which they 


take over charge and to post them to Malaria Con- 


trol Wnits with headquarters as stated against 
each :— 
(1) Dr. Jitendra Nath Ghose, M.B.B.S., 


1).T.M. & H., son of late Mukunda Nath 
Ghose—Balurghat, West Dinajpur, vice 
Dr. D. C. Roy transferred. 


(2) Dr. Barid Baran Chatterjee, M.B.B.S., son 
of Shri Panchudhan Chatterjee—Ilooghly, 
vice Dr. 1১, K. Sen transferred. 


(8) Dr. Nirmalendu Das Gupta, M.B.B.S., 
son of Dr. Prafulla Kumar Das (tupta— 
Krishnagar (Nadia), ‘vice Dr. ۔‎ C 
Brahma transferred. 


(4) Dr. Anil Krishna Das, M.B.B.S., son of 

Shri Nibaran Chandra Das—Suri 
(Birbhum), vice Dr. 8. ©. Chakraborti 
transferred. 


(5) Dr. Anil Kumar Mukherjee, M.B.B.S., son 
of Shri Abhoyapado Mukherjee— 
Midnapore, vice Dr. B. C. Sarar_ trans- 
ferred. 


(6) Dr. Sanat Kumar Datta, M.B.B.S., son of 


lute Sarat Chandra  Datta—English 
Bazar (Malda), vice Dr. S. K. De 
transferred, 


(7) Dr. Subimal Kumar Sen, M.B.B.S., son of 
Shri Kamakhya Charan Sen—Kalna 
(Burdwan). 

(8) Dr. Rash Behari Ghosh, M.B.B.S., son of 
of Shri Gostha Behari Ghosh—Jangipur 
(Murshidabad), vice Dr. S. N. Choudhuri 


transferred. 
(9) Dr. Md. Aftabuddin, M.B.B.S., son of 
Shri Md. Alauddin—Cooch Behar, wice 


Dr. N. K. Dutta appointed as a Sub- 
divisional Health Officer. 


Jalpaiguri.—No. P.H./2680 ۱ 1M-58 /56.—17th 

July 1956.—The CUovernor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Gouranga Roy, M.B.B.S., Supervising 
(Medical Officer of Tlealth, Ranaghat Transit 
Centre, temporarily to act until further orders 
as a Subdivisional Health Officer and to post 
him to the Alipurduars subdivision in the district 
of Jalpaiguri with effect from the date on which 
he joing the post. 


By order of the (sovernor, 
N. C, KAR, Dy. Secy. 


IRRIGATION AND WATERWAYS 
DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 121.—26th July 1956.—In exercise of the 
ower conferred by section 5 of the Bengal 
سی‎ Act, 1876 (Bengal Act 111 of 1876), the 
Governor is pleased to declare the Subdivisional 
Officer, Sonamukhi Irrigation Subdivision, is the 
officer by whom and the loca] limits of his juris- 
diction in the district of Bankura, as the local 
limits within which all the powers and duties of 
Canal Officer conferred and imposed by the said 
Act, shall be exercised and performed. 


No. 131—26th July 1956. In exercise of the 
power conferred by section 6 of the Bengal Irriga- 
(101) Act, 1876 (Bengal Act 111 of 1876), the 
Governor is pleased to declare that the water of 
the Bhora Khal with its tributaries lying within 


the district of Bankura from its source near the 
villages Patharmara and Krishnanagar, police- 
station Sonamukhi, to the boundary of the village 
Sanatanpur in both banks under the police-station 
Vishnupur, will be applied for the purposes uf the 
projected ‘‘Bhora Khal [rrigation Scheme’’ after 
the 2nd November 1956. 


By order of the -iovernor, 
.کا‎ SEN, Secy. 


DIRECTORATE OF IRRIGATION 
AND WATERWAYS 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 69C.1.E.—20th July 1956.—The following 
temporary Assistant Engineers are posted to the 
Divisions noted aguinst their respective names 
until further orders :— 


Name. Name of Division. 


(1) Shri Murari Mohan Muk- Canals Division under Eastern 
herjee, B.E., Circle. 
(2) Shri Sunil Chandra Nandi, J alpaiguri Construction Divi- 
B.E. wion under North Bengal 
Circle, 
Kumar Kangsabati Canale Division 
No. I under Kangsabati 
01710, 
(4) 0007 Kanta Bhakta, Ditto. 


B.E. 


(3) Shri Prodyot 
Das, B.8c., B.E. 


1. B. DE, Chief Engineer. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 3276)is./D/38A-9/56.—27th July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Sudhir 
Kumar Bhattacharyya, Labour Officer (Concilia- 
tion), to act as Assistant Labour Commissioner 
(Conciliation) until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES 


Food and Supplies 


NOTIVICATION 
No. T323k.8./FS/TR/1L-1/56. —~— 20th July 
1996.—The Governor is pleased to grant Shri 
Sudhangsu Mohan Nandy, W.B.J.C.8., Officer- 
in-charge, Government Food Depot, Cossipore, 
earned leave tor thirty-two days with effect from 
(011) May 1956 under rule 167(11) of West Bengal 


Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. MITRA, Dy. ১০০, 


او 


DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE (TAXATION) 
Directorate of Textiles 


ORDER 

No. 69/TX/ST.0/4/56.—16th July 1956.—In 
pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 22 of 
the West Bengal Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control 
Order, 1948, as subsequently amended, I hereby 
authorise Shri শি, N. Bose, Administrative Officer, 
and Shri S. Choudhury, Teehnical Officer, 
under the Directorate of Textiles, Department of 
Finance (Taxation), West Bengal, to perform the 
functions under sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (0) 
of paragraph 22 of the said order. 


ও, K. BOSE, 
Director ot ‘Textiles. 


2950 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr ] 
rg eerste cee 
সপ 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Revenue 
NOTIFICATIONS. 


Howrah-Hooghly-Nadia.—No. 121881L..1%.—12th 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Sailendra Kumar Gupta, Kanungo, now 
attacheal to  Howrah-Hooghly-Nadia Revisional 
Settlement Operation as a Revenue (Officer, for 
the purposes of the West Benal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), in 
a tah of the districts of Howrah, Hooghly and 

adia. 


Howrah-Hooghly-Nadia:—No. 12190L.R.— 
12th July 1956.—The Giovernor is pleased to 


appoint Shri Amiya Kumar Das Gupta, Settle- 
ment Kanungo, now attached to Howrah-Hooghly- 
Nadia Revisional Settlement Operation as a 
Revenue Officer, for the purposes of the Weat 
encal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 ‘(West 
Bengal Art I of 1954), with the additional desig- 
nation of Assistant 90111677761) Officer for the 
purposes of the revision of the  record-of-rights 
under Chapter V of the said Act in respect of the 
districts of Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia. 


24-Parganas. — No. 12596L.R. — 17th July 
1956. — The Governor is_ pleased 10 
appoint Shri Sudhirendra Nath Ganguly, 
Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy 
Collector (on probation), in the interest 
of public service, as an Assistant Settlement 
Officer, 24-Parganas Revisional Settlement 
Operation, with effect from the date of joining 
his duties till 28th February 1956. 


24-Parganas.— No. 12597L.R.—l7th July 1956. 
—In exerrise of the power conferred by section 4 
of the Bengal Survey Act, 1875 (Bengal Act V of 
1875), the Governor is pleased to appoint Shi 
Sudhirendra Nath Ganguly, Sub-Deputy Magis- 
trate and Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation), as 
an Assistant Superintendent of Surveys, to per- 
form any duties under the said Act within the 
district of 24-Parganas, 


24-Parganas. -No. 12598]..R.—17th July 6 
—The Governor is pleased to wppoint Shri 
Sudhirendra Nath Ganguly, Sub-Deputy Magie- 
trate and Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation)) 98 
a Revenue Officer for the purpose of the ১৮৪৪1 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), with the additional desig- 
nation of Assistant Settlement Officer for the 
murpose of the revision of the  record-of-rights 
under Chapter V of the said Act in respect of the 
district of 24-Parganas. 


Burdwan-Bankura.—No. 12634L.R.—l7th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
Kshirode Lal Sarkar, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector (temporary), in the tnterest 
of publie service, as an Assistant Settlement 
Officer Burdwan-HBankura Revisional Settlement 
Operation, with effect from the date on which he 
joins hig duties. 


Burdwan-Bankura.—No. 12635L.R.—l7th duly 
1956.—-In exercise of the power conferred ‘hy 
section 4 of the Bengal Survey Act, 1875 (Bengal 
Act V of 1875). the Governor is pleased to 6ء‎ 
Str Kshirode Lal Sarkar, Sub-Deputy Magistrate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector (temporary), wa an 
ati La pele تر‎ of Surveys, to pertorm 
any duties under the said Act withi istric 
of Burdwan and Bankura, ০০০০০ 


Burd.vin-Bankura,—No. 12090141110 July 
1966.--The Governor is pleased to appoint Shi 
Kshirode Jal Sarkar, Sub-Deputy 84858181755 and 
Sub-Deputy Collector (temporary), as a Revenue 
Officer for the punpose of the West Benga] 1068 
Acquisition Act, 1998 (West Bengal Act I of 
1954), with the additional desiynation of Assiat- 
nnt Setilement Officer for the purpose cf the 
revision of the record-of-rights under Chapter V 
of the said Act in respect of the districts of 
surdwan and Bankura. 


Cooch Behar-Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling,—No. 12712- 
L.R.—18th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to appoint Shri Bimal Bhusan Sarkar, Settlement 
Kanungo now attached to Cooch Behar-Jalpaiguri- 
Darjeeling Hevisional Settlement Operation, as a 
Revenue Officer, for the  urposes of the West 
Bengal Mstates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal 
Act I of 1954), in respect of the districts of Cooch 
Behar, Jalpaiguri اس‎ Darjeeling, 


Cooch Behar-Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling.—No. 12714- 
L.R.—18&th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to appoint the following Settlement Kanungos, 
now attached to Cooch Behar-Jalpaiguri-lDarjee- 
ling Revisional Settlement Operation, as Revenue 
Officers. for the purposes of the West Bengal 
Mstates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
I ot 1954), with the additional designation of 
Assistant Settlement Officers for the purposes of 
the revision of the record-of-rights under Chapter 
V of the said Act in respect of the districts of 
Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling :— 


(1) Shri Ranjit Kumar Guha. 
(2) Shri Sachindra Nath Roy, 
(3) Shri Dhiraj Tal Mojumdar, 
(4) Shri Surendra Nath Das. 


ERRATUM 
Cooch Behar-Jalpaiguri-Darjoeling.—No. 12716- 
L.R.—18th July 1956.—In this department 


notification No. 62U00T..R., dated the 28th Match 
1956, published in the Calcutta Gazette relating 
to the appointment of Shti Satyendu Sekhar Sen, 
Kanungo, employed in Cooch Bebar-Jalpaiguri- 
Darjeeling Revisional Settlement Operation as 


Revenue Officer for the pumpose of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 


Bengal Act 1] of 1954), please read Satyendu 
Sekhar Sen for Shri Satyendra Kumar Sen. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, Dy. ১০৮, 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 
Howrah.—No, 124481.A.—l4th July 1956.— 


The following agreement is published under 
section 42 of the Vand Acquisition Act, T of 
1894, for general information :— 


MEMORANDUM or AGREEMENT made this 
116) day of July, one thousand nine hundred 
and fifty-six ARTWLEN THE CALCUTTA 60 
SUPPLY CORPORATION, LIMITED, a Com- 
pany incorporated under the [uglish Companies 
Acts and having its registered office at Victoria 
10718, Vernon Place, Bloomsbury Square in 
Londan, and having a Branch Office at Victoria 
Tlouse, Chowringhee Square, in the city of 
Calcutia (hereinafter called “the Company’’) of 


Part T] 


Sr 


০০ পাস REESE আআ এ 


the one part and سدہ‎ GOVERNOR or পাও STATE 
oF WEST BENGAL (hereinafter called “the 
Governor’) of the other part: 


Wrertas for the purpose of construction of 8 
Tee Off Sub-station in connection with the Com-= 
pany’s Bauria 19190602908 6$01) Scheme for the 
general supply of electrical energy in Bauria 
within police-station Sakrail in the district of 
Hfowrah and in the adjoining licensed areas the 
Company has applied to the Government of West 
Bengal for the acquisition under the 10051810108 
of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, of a piece or 
parcel of land containing 1.21 acres or thereabout 
situate in the village of Sakrailjala in the dis- 
trict of Howrah and more particularly described 
in the Schedule hereto and delineated in the plan* 
herounto annexed; 


AND WHEREAS the said Government of Weat 
Bengal, being satisfied by an enquiry held under 
section 40 of the said Act that the proposed acquisi- 
tion is needed for the aforesaid purpose and that 
the said work is likely to prove useful to the 

ublic, has consented to acquire on behalf of the 
امو‎ the piece or parcel of land hereinbefore 
describe ; 


| AND WHEREAS the said Government of West 

engal bas required the Company under the provi- 
sions of section 41 of the abovementioned Act to 
euter into the Agreement with the Governor herein- 
after contained. 


Now THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that it is 
hereby agreed and declared as follows :— 


1. On demand the Company shall and will pay 
to the said Government of West Bengal all and 
every comgensation in respect of the said land 
tendered, paid or awarded or to 176 tendered, 
paid or awarded by the Collector under the 
Jand Acquisition Act, 1894, or by Court to 
which a reference under Part ITI of the said Act 
may be made, or by the Court or Courts to which 
an appeal from the award of the said Court 
may ‘be preferred and all costs, charges and 
expenses of the proceedings in the aforesaid 
Courts, or otherwise incidental to the ‘proposed 


acquisition or payable in respect thereof under 


the provisions of the said Act. 


2. Qn demand made by the said Collector the 
obligations of the Company under the last preced- 
ing clause not being thereby limited, the Compan 
shall and will deposit with the said Collector suc 
‘sum or sums of money as in his discretion 0ء عط.‎ 

«Collector may in anticipation estimate to be 
necessary for the purpose mentioned in the last 
preceding clause. 


3. On payment by the Company of all demands 


under the foregoing first clause, or, in the dis- 
cretion of the said Government of West Bengal 
,{on deposit by the Company of all estimated 
amounts as provided in the second clause), fut 
not before possession shall have been taken under 
the provisions of the abovementioned Act, the 
Governor shall make ovef possession of the said 
land to the Company and shall execute and do all 
such acts and deeds as may be necessary and 
proper for effectually vesting the same in the 
Company. 


4, The said land shall tbe held by the Company 
for the purpose of such supply of electrical energy 
on is hereinbefore mentioned and without the 
sanction in writing of the Government of Weat 
Bengal first had and obtained for no other ‘pur- 
pose whatsoever. 


5. The said Tee Off Sub-station shall be com- 


pleted and fully equipped in all respects ready 
for use within two yeurs from the date on which 


و ےر eg‏ کر رر رر ہا راک لت 
*Not printed but may be inspected in the office‏ 
of Tand Acquisition Officer, Howrah.‏ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 0 2951 


possession of the said land shall have been given 
to the Company, 


6, Should the Tee Off Sub-station not be com- 
pleted and fully equipped in all respects ready for 
use within the period stated in the last preceding 
clause or within such further qeriod as 11) its 
discretion may be prescribed or allowed by the 
suid Government of West Bengal or should the 
said land at any time therentter cease for a 
period of six consecutive months to be held and used 
ur cease to be required for the purpose or purposes 
provided for in the foregoing fourth clause then 
and in any such case the said Government may 
summarily re-enter upon and take possession of 
the said ee together with all buildings thereon, 
whether such buildings were erected before or 
after transfer of the Land to the Company, und 
thereupon the interest of the Company in the 
said land and fbuildings shall absolutely cease and 
determine, 


7. On taking such possession the said Govern- 
tment may sell or otherwise deal with the said land 
and the buildings as it may think proper. 


(i) Should the said Government sell the land 
with the building the said (30৮- 
ernment after deducting the expenses 
incurred in connection with the anid 
taking of possession and with such sale 
shall pay the proceeds to the Company. 


(ii) Should the said Government decide not to 
sell the land and buildings, the said Gov- 
ernment shall retain the said land and 
buildings thereon in which 0989 the 
Governor shall repay to the Company the 
market value as on the day of re-entry 
of all the buildings erected by the Com- 
pany and all sums received from the 
Company in respect of all and every 
compeusation as provided in the fore- 
going firat clause (less the statutory allow- 
ance of 16 per cent. and less any amount 
received on account of trees and buildings 
which are not in existence at the time of 
resumption), but will not repay any 
sums paid and received on account of 
costs, charges and expenses, 


(iii) Should the said Government decide ٥ 
sell the buildings only upon such ৪810, 
the Governor shall, after deducting the 
expenses of taking possession and selling, 
pay the balance of the proceeds of sale to 
the Company, together with the sum 
received from the Company in respect of 
the compensation for the fand (less the 
statutory allowance of 15 per cent. and 
less any amount received from the Com- 
pany on account of trees and buildings 
which are not in existence at the time 
of resumption), but will not repay any 
sum paid and received on account of 
costs, charges and expenses. 


8. The public shall be entitled to the use of 
the said land on the following terms, that is to say, 
swhject to the provisions of the Indian Electricity 
Act, 1910, and Rules made thereunder or to the 
provisions of any other legislative enactment or 
rules in that behalf for the time being in force, 
the public in the vicinity of the said Tee Off Sub- 
stution, and in the adjoining licensed area shall, 
when the proposed Tee Off Sub-station and worka 
are completed, be entitled to be supphed with 
ات‎ energy from such Sub-station within the 
limits of the power available at such Sub-station 
and -in pursuance of the terms of the electrical 
licence granted to the Company. 


9. Should any dispute or difference arise touch- 
ing or concerning the subject matter of this agree- 
ment or any covenunt clause or thing herein 
contained the sume shall be referred to the اھ‎ 
Government of West Bengal and the opinion and 


2962 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 6 


decision. 01 the said Government wpon such dispute 
or difference shall be final and conclusive and bind- 
ing on the parties hereto. 


The Schedule above referred to 


ALL THA1 piece or parcel of land measuring, 
more or less, 1.21 acre (equivalent to an area of 3 
bighas 13 cottahs 13 chittacks and 30 square feet 
and comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 618 an 
619 of mauza Sakrailjala, jurisdiction list No. 21, 
tana Sakrail, sub-registry Howrah in the district 
of Ifowrah, and butted and bounded on the— 


North—-By a road being cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 888 and 630. 


East—By cadastral survey plot No. 621. 
South—By cadastral survey plot Nos. 613 and 
620. 


West—By cadastral survey plot No. 617. 


IN WITNESSETH whereof the duly constituted 
attorneys of the Company and the Governor of 
the State of West Bengal have hereunto set their 
respective hands and seals the day and year first 


above written. 


sealed and delivered‏ سو 
y Ian Alastair Macpherson‏ 
and David Gwilliam Pugh‏ 
the duly constituted joint‏ 
attornoys of the Calcutta‏ 
Electric Supply Corporation‏ 
Limited for and on behalf‏ 
of the Company in the‏ 
I. A. Macpherson.‏ 


presence of— 


Witness— 


R. M. Sen Gupta, 
Assistant Commercial 
Manager, Victoria House, 
Calcutta. 


Si , sealed and delivered 
y the Member, Board of 
Revenue and Secretary to 
the Government of West 
Ben (ex officio) in the 
Land and Land Revenue 
Department for and on 
behalf of the Governor of 
the State of West Benga! in 
the presence of— 


D. G. Pugh. 


لت 


5 S. Banerjee, Member, Board 
: of Revenue and Secretary 
وس کت‎ পা ا‎ (ex officio) to the Govern. 
না nt. Gov- ment of West Bengal, Land 
: and Land Revenue Depart- 
ernment of West Bengal. طسو‎ 
11-7-3 966. 11-7-19656. 


Cooch Behar.—No. 12454L.A.—l4th July 1956, 
— Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 «I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of lund 
for the purposes of the Union have been entrusted 
to the State Government by notification No. 20/1/ 
55-Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued ly 
the (tovernment of India, in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (c) of section 3 of the said Act, 
read with the said notification, the (Governor 1s 
pleased to appoint Shri Tarapada Talukdar, Sub- 
Deputy Magistrate‘and Sub-Deputy Collector, now 
employed «as Subdivisional Compensation (Officer, 
Cooch 11187 to be the Special Land Acquisition 
Officer, Cooch Behar, to perform in the district 
of Cooch Behar the functions of a Collector under 
the said Act, in relation to the acquisition cf 
land for the purposes of the Uniun. 


{Parr I 


x 


Gooch Behar.—No. 12456L.A.—l4th July 1906. 
—In exervise of the powers conferred by clause 
(c) of section 3 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(L of 1894), the Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Tarapada Talukdar, Sub-Deputy Magistrate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector, now enrployed aa 
Subdivisional Compensation Officer, Cooch Bebar, 
to be the Special Tand Acquisition Officer, Cooch 
Behar, to perform in the district of Cooch Behar 
the functions of a Collector under the said Act, 
in relation to the acquisitiun of lands for public 
purposes (except the purposes of the Union) and 
for Companies. 


Cooch Behar.—No. 12456L.A.—14th July 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by clause 
(a) of sub-section 2 of the West Bengal Jand 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act I] of 1948), the Governor is pleased 
tv specially appoint Shri Tarapada Talukdar, 
Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, 
now employed as the Subdivisional Compensation 
Officer, Cooch Behar, to be the Special Land 
Acquisition Officer, Cooch Behar, to perform the 
functions of a Collector under the said Act in 10৬ 
district of Cooch Behar. 


Burdwan.—No. 12610L.A.—l17th July 1966.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central (rovern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (J of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 10955, issued hy 
the {tovernment of India, in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of Jndia; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (c) of section 3 of the said Act 
read with the said notification, the Governor ib 
pleased to appoint Shri Sudhindra Nath Ray, 
Additional District Magisrtate, Burdwan, to per- 
form in the district of Burdwan the functions ot 
a Collector under the said Act, in relation to 
the acquisition of land for the purposes of thie 
Union. 


Burdwan.—No, 12611L.A.—17th July 10956.— 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) 
of section 3 of the Land Acquisition Act, 4 
(I of 1894), the Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Sudhindra Nath Kay, Additional District 
Magistrate, Burdwan, to perform in the district 
of Burdwan the functions of a Collector under the 
anid Act, in relation to the acquisition of lands 
for public purposes (except the spurposes of the 
Union) and for Companies. 


Burdwan,—No. 126121,..A.—1l7th July 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by clause (a) 
of sub-section 2 of the West Bengal Land (Requisi- 
tion and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West Bengal 
Act IT of 1948), the (tovernor is pleased to 
apecially appoint Shri Sudhindra Nath Ray, 
Additional J)istrict Magistrate, Burdwan, 0٥ 
perform the functions of a Collector under the said 
Act in the district of Burdwan, 


By order of the Governor, 


শি, BANERJEE, 
Member, Board of Revenue, and Secy. 
to the Govt. of West Bengal (62 offcie). 


']'1117( ۵101717۸ GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2969 


SS ——————————e‏ سستتتبتبیتتت ٣سبتجچٹتج ‏ تت ‏ ث۔_00لم'ل'ے مل بے ہے 


Part J] 
Howrah,—No. 12962L.A.(P.W.).—l8th July 
1956.—-The Governor is pleased to cancel 80 


much of the notification No. 19078L.A.(P.W.), 
dated the 380th Octobor 1962, under section 4 of 
the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published 
at mages 3499-4500, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 
of the 13th November 1952, as amended by 
Krratum No, 12358L.A.(2.W.), dated ط180‎ July 
1966, os relates to pieces of land measuring. 
more or less, 0.16 of an acre and comprising 
cadastral plots as detailed below, out of the total 
area of 4.36 acres notified for acquisition for the 
diversion of the Howrah-Kolaghat Road at 


Khalisani and Surikhali in the district of 
Howrah :- 
Thana Uluberia, village Khalisani, jurisdiction list 


No. 96. 
Cadastral plots in part—895, 896. 
Thana Uluberia, village Surikhali, 
list No. 98. 
Cadastral plots in part—1394, 995, 1482. 


jurisdiction 


Murshidabad,—_No. 124461..A.—1l4th July 1956. 
— Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a tpurpose of the Union, namely, for an a »proach 
road to the Maternity Hospital at Berhampur 
in the villuge of Garberhampur, jurisdiction list 
No. 91, thuna Berhampur Town, pargana Kul- 
heria, district Murshidabad it is দা notified 
that pieces of land comprising parts of cadastral 
plot Nos. 345, 346 and 376 and altogether mensur- 
ing, more or legs, .U210 of an acre, are likely to 
be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid village of 
Garberhampur; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom 11 muy 
concern, 


A plan of the land may he inspected in_ the 
office of the Special and Acquisition Officer, 
Murshidabad, 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section, the Governor is pleased ٥ 
authorize the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and work- 
men, to enter upon and survey the land and do 
al] other acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the levality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Murshidabad. 


Midnapore. No. 125441.A.(P.W.).—16th July 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
extra land is likely to be needed for a public pur- 
pose, not being a purpose of the union, namely, for 
the construction of the Mechada-Tamluk Road at 
the 4th mile, it is hereby notified that for the 
above purpose four pieces of land altogether 
measuring, more or less, 1.16 acres, and conypris- 
ing cadastral plots as detailed below, are likely to 
be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense in the district of Midnnpore ; 


District Midnapore 


Thanu Tumluk, village Janubasan, jurisdiction 
list No. 44 
Cadastral plots in part—91, 104, 105, 106, 107, 
108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 118, 265, 266, 267 and 
268. 


This notification ig made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


plan of the land may be inspected in the‏ ۸ھ 
office of the Superintending Engineer, Road I lan-‏ 
ning Circle, at Anderson Tees Alipore, as well‏ 
as in that of the Collector of Midnapore.‏ 


In, exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all cther 
0009 required or permitted by that section. 


Any ہ۶۳۸‎ interested in so much of the above 
land as are not waste or arable, who has any 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in 
the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Midnapore. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
6A of the Act shall not apply to the waate or arable 
portions of the land in this case. 


Nadia.—No. 12628L.A.(F.W.).—l17th July 1946. 
—The Governor is pleased to cancel 80 much of 
the notice No. 138736L.A.(P.W.), dated the 0 
October 1951, under section 4(]) of the West 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
1948 (West Bengal Act IT of 1948), published at 
pages 2807-2808, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 
of the 25th October 1951 read with erratum 
No. 12626L.A.(P.W.), dated 17th July 1956, as 
relates to cadastral survey plot No. 3008 in part, 
measuring more or less, .46 of an acre out of the 
total area of 27.83 acres of land notified for 
acquisition for the purpose of providing facilities 
for transport and commuuication, namely, for the 
construction of Krishnagar-Karimpur-Shikarpur 
Major District Road in the villuge of Betai, juris- 
diction list No. 89, police-station Tehatta, district 
Nadia. 


Midnapore.—No. 126380L.A.(P?.W.).—lith July 
1956.—Wherens it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed, for a public purpose 
not being « purpose of the Union, وکس‎ for 
silt clearance of 17880] khal in connection with 
Dunia Khal Scheme, in the villages of LErasol, 
Rampur and Nandapur, jurisdiction list Nos. !) 
98 and 100, respectively, thana Nandigam, 
pargana, Nandigram, district Midnapore, 11 is 
hereby notified that a piece of land comprising 
cadastral plots as detailed below and measuring, 
more or less, 14.32 acres, is likely to be needed 
for the aforesaid public purpose at the public 
expense within the aforesaid villages of 17801 
Rampur and Nandapur سے‎ 


DISTRICT MIDNAPORE 


Thana Nandigram 
Village Erasol, jurisdiction list No. 90. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1442, 1402, 
1511, 1614, 1515, 1534, 1545, 1586, 1540, 1541. 
1566, 1567, 1568, 1569, 1570, 1574, 16575, 


1613, 1615, 1616, 1617, 1884, 1887, 1889, 1890, 
1903, 1904, 1906, 1906, 1909, 1910, 1914, 1915, 
1916, 1917, 1918, 1920, 1921, 1936, 1987, 
1938, 1969, 1972, 19738, 1974, 1975, 1976, 
2365, 2477, 2478, 2479, 2480, 2481, 2482, 2483, 
2493, 2494, 2625, 28635, 2689, 2640, 2447, 2548, 
2649, 2660. 2551, 2662, 2653, 2664, 2529) 2572, 
2573, 3456, 3478, 3479, 3480, 3481, 3482, 3486 
and 3601. 


Village Rampur, jurisdiction list No, 98. 


Cadastral survey plot in 1011--888. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—875, 876, 887, 
934, 935, 936, 987 and 938. 


2954 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


(Parr I 


হা سد‎ TS ےس سد نے وھ سے سج تس ےجو دح کی ری سط ےط ےس لا‎ Tn RE سد‎ arene 


Village Nandapur, jurisdiction list No. 100. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—3230 and 3235. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—372, 373, 487, 
500, 692, 598, 620, 621, 627, 631, 6382 and 3285. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4, Act I of 1894, to all whom )] 7 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, Midnapore. 


In exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
suid gection the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with there servants and workmen, 
to enter upon and survey the land and do all 
other acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acyuisition thereof, may 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification 29 
given in' the locality, file an objection in writing 
before the Collector, Midnapore. 


ERRATA 

Cooch Behar.—No. 12200L.A.(P.W.) — 12th 
July 1956.—In notification No. 1628L.A.(P.W.), 
dated the Ist February 1954, under. section 4 of 
the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published at 
pages 477-78, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of 
the 18th idem, in respect of the acquisition of 
land tor the construction of the Rajarbat—Matha- 
bhanga Road (section from Salmara to Bamani- 
kura) in the district of Cooch Behar, following 
changes will occur :— 


Read ‘10.76 acres” for ‘‘11.56 ucres’’ in line ۰ 


Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Khattimari, sheet 
No. 2, thak No. 356. 


Delete “22” against cadastral plots in part. 


Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Khattimari sheet 
No. 1, thak No. 356. 
Delete ‘‘79, 244, 294, 297১৮” against cadastral 
plots in part. 


Parganao Mathabhanga, taluk Sildanga, sheet 


No. 2, thak No. 360. 


Delete “71, 75” against cadastral plots in part. 


Mathabhanga, taluk Suildanga, 
No. 1, thak No. 360. 


Delete ‘‘617, 309, 277” against cadastral plots 
in part. 


Pargana sheet 


Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Goyabari, sheet 
No. 2, thak No. 367. 


Delete ‘‘129”’ against cadastral plots in part. 


Howrah.—No. 12358L.A.(P.W.).—I13th July 
1956.—In notification No. 19078L.A.(P.W.), 


dated the 30th October 1952 under section 4 of 
the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, gublished 
at pages 3499-3500, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 
of the 1:11) November 1952, in respect of the 
acquisition of additional land for the diversion of 
the Howrah-Kolaghat Road at Khalisani and 
Surikhali, in the district of Howrah, following 
changes will oceur سے‎ 


Read ‘4.35 acres’’ for “39.94 acres” in lines 8-9. 


list No. 


Delete “1391, 1335, 1387, 990, ۰ against 
cadastral plots in part, 


Thana Uluberia, village Suri Khali, jurisdiction 
98. 


.4.Parganas.—No. 125801,A.—16th July 19656. 
—F vor the lust paragraph of notification No. 8096- 
1./৬,, dated the 26th April 1966, under section 4 
of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published 
at paves 1602-1608, Part I of the (Calcutta 
Gazette of the 10th May 1956, in respect of acquisi- 
tion of 3.05 acres of land required by the District 
Roard, 24-Parganas, for construction of و‎ road 
from Kalyanpur Railway Station to Chandan- 
pukuria High English Sehool in the village of 
Gopalpur, jurisdiction list No. 67, 00৮0 Barui- 
pur, district 24-Darganas, substetute the follow- 
ing :— 


“In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, T of 
1894, as amended by Act XXXVIII of 
192, the Governor is pleased to direct that 
the provisions of section 5A of the Act shall 
not apply in this case. 


The notification No, 4218L.A., dated the 28th 
February 1956, published at page &80, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 16th 
March 1956, is hereby cancelled.”’ 


Burdwan.—No. 127961..A.—20th July 1956.— 
In notification No. 14290L.A., dated 26th July 
1955, under section 4 of the Tand Acquisition 
Act, I of 1894, published at page 1109, Part I of 
the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary of the same 
date in respect of the acquisition of land required 
by the Damodar Valley Corporation for the 
excavation of F.C. of Panagarh Branch 
Canal from chainage 0.80 to chainage 70 in con- 
nection with the Damodar Flood Control Project 
in the district of Burdwan— 


Read. cadastrul survey plot Nos. 4033, 
4035" in place of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. “409৭ to 4035”? in lines 34 and 39. 


Read cadastral survey plot Nos. ‘3900, 9944 
and 404” in place of cadastral survey 
plot Nos. “3900 and 3944” in line 29. 


Hooghly.—No. 13066L.A.—25th July 1956.— 
In notification No. 14926L.A., dated the 6th 
August 1955 under section 4 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, I of 1894, published at page 1177, Part 
آ‎ of the Calcutta Gazette, Eatraordinary of the 
(ith idem in respect of acquisition of land required 
by the Damodar Valley ا سس‎ for Distribu- 
tary D/1 from chainage 845.50 to chainage 855.50: 
in the village of Binagram, jurisdiction )ھ11‎ 
No. 72, police-station Tarakeswar, district. 
Hooghly— 


Read “0.33 of an acre’’ tn place of “0.34 of am 
acre” in line 12 


Jalpaiguri.—No. 12318L.A.(P.W.).—13th July 
1966.—In notice No. 19090L.A.(?.W.), dated the 
28th September 1955, under section 4(la) of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act IT of او‎ pub- 
lished at page 3991, Tart ] of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 6th October 1955, in respect of the 
acquisition of land for the purpose of providing 
facilities for transport and communication, 
namely, for the construction of staff quarters, in 
connection with the construction of Jalpaiguri- 
Silguri Road and Jalpaiguri-Rajganj Road, in 
the district of Jalpaiguri— 


Read ‘‘1.995 acres” for ‘1.716 acres” in line 2. 


Part J] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


2966 


পি 


Birbhum.—No. 12526L.A.(P.W.).—l6th July 
1956.—In notice No. 257461.A.(P.W.), dated 
29th December 1955, under section 4(Ja) of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act II of 1948), pub- 
lished at page 2424, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette, Kztraordimary, of the 30th December 
1955, read with the erratum No. 79180.A.(P.W.), 
dated 23rd April 1956, 177 at page 1603 of 
the Calcutta Gazette of the 10th May 1956, in 
respect of acquisition of land for the purpose of 
providing facilities for irrigation and drainage, 
namely, for the construction of Dwarka Brahmani 
Main Canal, in connection with the Mayurakshi 
Reservoir Project in the villages of Tostikanda 
and others under police-station Rampurhat, dis- 
trict Birbhum— 


Read the figure ‘‘38.15"’ for the figure +07 


in line 2, 
Nadia.—No. 12626L.A.(1.W.).—17th July 
1956.—In notice No. 138786L.A.(P.W.), dated 


ithe 3rd October 1961, under section 4(1) of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948 (West Benyal Act JI of 1948), publish- 
éd at pages 2807-2808, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of the 25th October 1951, in respect of 
the দিলেও of land for the purpose uf pro- 
viding facilities for transport and communication, 
namely, for the construction of Krishnagar- 
Karimpur-Shikarpur Major District Road, in 
village Betai, jurisdiction list No. 89, police- 
station Tehatta, district Nadia, the following 
changes will occur سس‎ 


Read the figures “2863, 4265”? for the figures 
“2833, 6250” against cadastral pie in 
part, in lines 28 and 40, respectively. 


DECLARATIONS. 


Calcutta.—No. 121581..A.—12th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894), 
in relation to the acquisition of land for the pur- 
poses of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by (6۹ 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the Conoti- 
tution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for the construction of a 
Post Office Building at Cossipore, in Ward No, 3 
of the Calcutta Municipality in the city of 
Caleutta, it is hereby declared that a piece of land 
comprising premises Nos. | and 2, Sarbamangala 
Lane, and measuring, more or leas, 0.121 of an 
acre, bounded on the— 


North—By Gun Foundry Road, 
Kast—By 0. C. drain, 


South—By premises Nos. 3/1 and 3, Sarba- 
mangala Lane, 


West—-By Sarbamangala Lane, 


is needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid Ward No. 3 
of the Calcutta Municipality in the city of 
Calcutta. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land eee Act, 1894 (i 
of 1894), read with the suid notification, to cll 
whom jt may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inapected {u the office 


of the Firwt Land Acquisition Collector, Caloutta, 
at No, 6, Bonkshall Stree, (91049, 


Gooch Behar.—No. 121981,.A.(P?.W.) — 12th 
July 1956.—Whereas the Goverfor is satistied 
that land is needed for u public purpose, not be- 
ing a purpose of the Union, namely for the cons- 
truction of the Hajarhat-Mathabhunga Road 
(section from Salmara to Bamanikura), it is here- 
by declared that for the above purpose pieces of 
land altogether measuring, more or less, 0.10 of 
aun acre and comprising cadastral plots as detailed 
below, are needed for the atoresaid public purpose 
کت‎ public expense in the district of 00001) 

ehur. 


DISTRICT COOCH BEHAR 


Pargana Muthabhanga, taluk Khattimari 
No. 2, thak No. 356. 


yadastral plots in part—43, 26. 
Pargana Mathobhanga, taluk Khattimari 
No. 1, thak No. 356. 
Cadastral plots in part—141, 58, 246. 
Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Khattimari 
No. 2, thak No. 360. 
Cadastral plota in part—195, 179. 
Pargana Mathabbanga, taluk Sildanga, 
No. 1, thak No. 360. 
Cadastral plots in part—895, 372. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Deputy Commissioner of Cooch Behar. 


sheet 


sheet 


sheet 


sheet 


Howrah.—No. 12356L.A.(P.W.).—l3th July 
1956.—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that 
additional land is needed for a public purpose, 
not being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 
the diversion of the Howrah-Kolaghat Road at 
Khalisani and Surikhali, it is hereby declared 
that for the above purpose pieces of 18110 altogether 
measuring, more or less, 2.16 acres and comprising 
cadastral plots as detailed below, are needed for 
the aforesaid public purpose at the tpublic expense 
in the district of Howrah: 


District Howrah 
Thana Uluberia, village Khalisani, jurisdiction 


list No. 96. 
Cadastral plot in full—923. 


Cadastral plots in part—919, 902, 904, 898, 
901, 980, 897, 933. 


Thana Uluberia, village Surikhali, jurisdiction 
list No. 98. 


Cadastral plots in full—1388, 1400. 


Cadastral ‘plots in part—1384, 13838, 1387, 1389, 
991, 1401, 1899, 1895, 1896, 1392, 1390. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector of Howrah. 


Howrah.—No. 12528L.A.(P.W.).—l6th July 
1956.—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that 
additional land is needed for a public purpone, 
not being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 
the construction of the Howrah-Kolaghat Road st 
Khalisani, it is hereby declared that for the above 
purpose pieces of land altogether measuring, more 
or less, 0.12 of an acre and comprising cadastral 
plots as detailed below, are required in the district 
of Jlowrah : 


District Howrah 
Thana Uluberia, village Khalisani, jurisliction 
list No. 96. 


Cadastral plots in part-—-3165, 3167, 3136, 3070, 
3130, 9191) 8129, 


2956 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


This declaration ia made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act ] of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of Howrah. 


Burdwan.—No. 13074L.A.—25th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. I8A, 
11۸ and 20A of Burdwan-Belmuri section 1382 
K.V. Transmission line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of schemes for genera- 
tion, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Kantia, jurisdiction list 
No. 95, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby declared that ‘pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 16, 302 and 
1025 and altogether measuring, more or less, 
.0618 of an acre are needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesaid village of 
Kantia. 

Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerals as it may 1) necessary to dig cr 
carry away, or use in the construction of the work 
for the purpose of which the land is being acquired, 
are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the ‘arovisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, and section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVITI of 1885, to all whom it may 
eoncern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Iand Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley liroject, Butdwan. 


Burdwan.—No. 13078L.A.—25th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor 1s satisfied that land 19 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. 21A, 
22A and 23A of Burdwan-Belmuri section 152 
K.V. Transmission line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of schemes for genera- 
tion, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Syamsundarpur, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 94, thana Burdwan, district Buid- 
wan. it 1s hereby declared that pieces of land com- 
prising part of cadastral survey plot Nos. 6, 11, 
551, 298 and 405 and altogether measuring, more 
or less, .0618 of an acre, are needed for the afore- 
said public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesaid village of 
Syamsundarpur. 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slute or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such [98768 of the mines 
and minerals as it may tbe necessary to dig or 
. CaITy away, or use in the construction of the work 
for the purpose of which the land is being acquired, 
are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the ‘provisions 
of section: 6, Act I of 1894, and section 4, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
ofice of the Specie] Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley l’roject, Burdwan. 


Burdwan,—-No, 13082L.A.— 25th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that Jand ia 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. 253A, 
204۸ and 255A of Kalipahari-Burdwan section 2 
K.V. Transmission line in connection with the 
promotion and operntion of schemes for the genera- 
tion, transmission and distributtion of electric 
energy in the village of Rampur, 
jurisdiction list No. 80, — thann (talsi, 


[Parr I 


district Burdwan, it is hereby declared “that 
yueces Of land comprising part of cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 2255, 2297 and 2405 and altogether 
measuring, more of less, .0G18 of an acre, are 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation within 
the aforesaid villuge of Raimpur. 


Mines of coal, iron-sivne, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the imines 
and minerals as it may be necessary to dig or 
carry away, or use in the construction of the work 
for the purpose of which the land is being acquired, 
are not needed, 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, und section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in ‘he 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No. 13112L.A.—25th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a nurpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. 413, 
42A, 434 and 44A of Burdwan-Belmuri section 
1825.۲۰ Transmission line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of schemes for genera- 
tion, transmission, and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Putunda, jurisdiction list 
No. 154, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby declared that pieces of land 00217771812) 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1367, 1359, 
1699, 1906, 1905, 2097 and 2120 and altogether 
measuring, more or less, .0985 of an acre, are 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar ৮ 81167 Corporation within 
the aforesaid village of Putunda, 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerals as it may fe necessary to dig or 
carry away, or use in the construction of the work 
for the purpose of which the land is being acquired, 
are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section, 6, Act I of 1894, and section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
01808 of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Troject, Burdwan. ee 


ERRATA 


Cooch Bohar.—No. 12202L.A.(P.W.),. — 12th 
July 1956.—1lu declaration No. 7020L.A.(P.W.), 
dated the 12th May 1954, under section 6 of the 
land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published ot 
pages 131-52, Part Ll of the Calcutta Gazette of 
the 27th idem, in respect of the acquisition of 
land required for the construction of the Rujarhat- 
Mathabhanga Road (section from Salmara_ to 
Bomanikura), in the district of Cooch Behar, 
following changes will occur,— 


Read “VU.66 acres for 11.46 acres”? in line 8. 
Pargana Mathubhanga, taluk Khattimari sheet 
No. 2, thak No. 356. 

Delete ‘'22’’ against cudastral plots in part. 
Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Khattimari sheet 
No. 1, thak No, 996, 

Delete “79, 244, 294, 297” against cadastral 
plots iu part. 
Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Sildanga, abeet 
No. 2, thak No. 360. 
Delete I, TH”? against endostral plots in part. 


Part [] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2967 
Parganan Mathabhanga, taluk Sildanga, sheet Land Reforms 
No. 1, thak No. 360. 
Delete ‘517, 3809, 277” against cadastral plots ORDERS 


in part, 


Lead “864” for “868”? against cadastral plots 
in part. 


Pargana Mathabhanga, taluk Goyabari, sheet 
No. 2, thak No. 367. 
Delete ‘‘129” against cadastral plots in part. 


Howrah.—No, 123601..A.(P.W.).—13th July 
1956.—In declaration No. 6734L.A.(P.W.), dated 
the 20th March 1958, .under section 6 of the 
land Acquisition Act, J of 1894, spublished at 
page 901, Part [ of the Calcutta Gazette of the 
26th idem, in respect of the acquisition of addi- 
tional land required for the diversion of the 
Howrah-Kolaghat Road at Khalisani and Suri- 
khali in the district of Howrah, following changes 
will occur :— 


Read “2.04 acres’’ for “2.21 acres’ in line 8. 


Thana Uluberia, village Khalisani, jurisdiction 
list No. 96. 
Delete ‘‘901" against cadastral plots in part. 


Thana Uluberia, village Suri Khali, jurisdiction 
hst No. 98. 


Delete “991, 1997) 990, 18386”? against cadastral 
plots in part. 


Burdwan.—No. 12708L.A.—20th July 1956.— 
In declaration No. 142921.A., dated 26th 
July 1099) under section 6 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, I of 1894, published at page 3004, Part 
I of the Caleutta Gazette of the 4th August 19665, 
in respect of the acquisition of 13.84 acres of land 
required by the Damodar Valley Corporation for 
the excavation of P.C. of Panagarh Branch Canal 
from chainage 0.80 to chainage 70 in connection 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
district of Burdwan— 


Head cadastral survey plot Nos. “3900, 3944 
in place of cadastral survey plot Nos. “4083 
to 4035” in line 33. 


Read cadastral survey plot Nos. “3900, 5944 and 
4034’? in place of cadastral survey ا‎ 
Nos. “3900 and 3944” in line 28. 


Burdwan,—No. 12800L.A.—20th July 1956.— 
In declaration No. 11904L.A., dated the 4th 
August 1954, under section 6 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, I of 1894, published at pages 1079 and 
1080, Part I of the নর Gazette, Eatraord- 
nary of the 4th idem in respect of the acquisition 
of land for the excavation of Right Bank Main 
Canal from chainage 2140 to chaimage 2220 in 
connection with the Damodar Flood Control Pro- 
ject in the district of Burdwan— 


/nsert the figure 465 before the figure ‘1341’ 
in line 11 


Hooghly.—No. 13068L.A.—25th July 19560 
In declaration No. 15072T..A., dated the &th 
August 1956, under section 6 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, T of 1894, published at page 3174, Part 
I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 18th idem in 
respect of acquisition of land required. by the 
Pamodar Valley Corporation fér Distributary 1 
from chainage 845.50 to chainage 855.50 in the 
village of Binagram, jurisdiction liat No. 72, 
police-station Tarakeswar, district Tloorhly— 


Read. ‘0.21 of an acre’? in place of "0.22. of 
an acre”? in line ۰ 
By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, Dy. Seey. 


Birbhum,—No. 12136L. HRef.—Illth July 4. 
—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Renuka Panja, Shri Sham ظا‎ ٣ 
Samanta, Shri Subhas Kinkaur Samanta and Shri 
Sarat Kinkar Samanta of Suri, Birbhum, under 
sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal 
Katates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
1 of 1954), for recovery by the State Government 
of all sums recoverable by them under the proyi- 
sions of section 8 of the said Act in respect of all 
interests held by them as intermediaries in the 
district of Birbhum; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


24-Parganas.—No. 12138L.Ref.—llth July 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Nayan Manjari Boral, 8 Hidaram 
Banerjee Lane, Calcutta-12, under sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Ketates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), tor 
recovery by the State Giovernment of all sums 
recoverable by her under the provisions of section 
৪ of the said Act in respect of all interests held 
by her us a sebait of (1) Shri Shri Iswar Ma 
Mangal Chandi, (2) Shri Shri Iswar Narayan 
Mahaprabhu, and (3) Mahadev Jew in_ the 
district of 24-Parganas; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of مھ‎ 8۱ of the raid 
Act, the Governor is pleased tu grant the 0810 
upplication. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum.—No. 126761. Ref.—18th 
July 1956.—Whereas an application has been 
made by Shri Nirmal Kumar Singh Nowlakha, 
“Nowlakha Bhawan’’, P.O. Azimganj, district 
Murshidabad, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of 
the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the 
tate Government of all sums recoverable by him 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by him as an Inter- 
mediary in the districts of Murshidabad and 
Birbhum; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the ৪910 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


24-Parganas.—No. 126781..Ref.—18th July 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Ramhari Bhattacharjee, Shri Adya Charan 
Bhattacharjee and Shri Girija Saran Bhattacharjee 
of 26 Thakurpara Lane, Bhatpara, under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 
1964), for recovery by the State Government of all 
sums recoverable by them under the provisions of 
section 8 of the said Act, in respect of all interests 
held by them as intermediaries in the district of 
the 24-Parganas; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor ig pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Bankura.—No, 127281. Ref.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Priya Nath Nandi, village Sunda, police- 
৪6101) Chakradighi, district Burdwan, under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 
1964), for recovery by the State Government of all 
sums recoverable by him under the provisions of 
section 8 of the said Act, in respect of all interests 


29388 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Part I 


سسےسسسے ے سمم_ “۷ة سس ললঙ a‏ 


held by him as an intermediary in the district of 
Bankura ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 


application. 


Bankura.—No. 12730L.Ref.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by 
Chri Sailendu Bhusan Mahapatra, village Supur, 
P.O. Khatra, district Bankura, under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 
1954), for recovery by the State Government of all 
sums recoverable by him under the provisions of 
section 8 of the جا‎ Act, in respect of all interests 
held by him as an intermediary in the district of 
Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act. the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Burdwan.—No. 12732L.Ref.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made 0 
Shri Satya Prosad Banerjee, Sebait, Ananta De 
Salgram Thakur’s Debottar and Durga Thakurani’s 
Debottar properties under sub-section (1) of | sec- 
tion 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 
Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act ] af او‎ for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of section 8 
of the said Act, in respect of all interests held by 
him as a Sebait of the aforesaid deity in the district 
of Burdwan; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 


ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 


application. 
By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


24-Parganas.—No.  123421..Ref.—l3th July 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (2) of section 27 of the Calcutta Thika 
Tenancy Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act II of 1949), 
the Governor is pleased to appoint each of the 
persons mentioned in the schedule below to hear 
appeals presented under clause (b) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of the said section to the District Judge 


of 24-Parganas. 


The Schedule 


(1) Shri Bireswar Prasad Bakshi, Additional 
District Judge, 24-Parganas. 


(2) Shri Satipada Chatterjee, Subordinate 
Judge, 24-Parganas. 
(3) Shri Santosh Kumar Sen, Subordinate 


Judge, 24-Parganas. 


Howrah.—No, 123461..Ref.—13th July 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by sub-sec- 
tion (2) of section 27 of the Calcutta Thika 
Tenancy Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act II of 1949), 
the (Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Amal 
Kumar Roy, officiating Additional Subordinate 
Judge, Howrah, to heat appeals presented under 
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of the said section to 
the District Judge, Howrah. 


By order of the Governor, 


S, BANERJEE, Secy. 


24-Parganas.—No. 12118L.Ref. — llth July 
1956.—Iln exercise of the power conferred by 
clause (1) of section 2 of the West Bengal Aliena- 
tion of Land (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1024 
(West Bengal Act ¥XXVII of 1954), the 
Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Jogesh 
Chandra Saha, Special Officer, Diamond Harbour, 
to discharge the functions of a Collector under 
the said Act in the Diamond Habrour subdivision 
in the district of 24-Paryanas. 


By order of the Governor, 
1১. M. DATTA, Dy. ۰ 


Land Development 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


24-Parganas.—No.12120-J]..Dev.—1lth July 1956. 
—Whereas it uppears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, viz., 
for the settlement of immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on account 
of circumstances beyond their control in the 
village of Bade Raypur, jurisdiction lst No. 34, 
police-station Tollygunge, district 24-Parganas, it 
is hereby notified that for the nbove purpose pieces 
of land comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 98, 
261 to 265, 279, 302 to 305, 308 to 318, 917 to 319, 
323 and parts of cadastral survey plots Nos, 159, 
160, 162, 271, 272, 280, 281, 285, 286, 288 to 
290, 203, 294, 297 to 299, 314 to 316, and 714 and 
altogether meusuring, more or less, 6.18 acres, 
are likely to be required within the aforesaid 
village of Bade Raypur. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Vlanning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, 
and the Refugee Hehabilitation Commissioner, 
West Bengal, for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their officer, servants and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all other acts required or permitted by that 
section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected 15) the 
office of the First Land Acquisition Collector, 
Calcutta. 


24.Parganas.—No. 12122L.Dev.—llth 7 
1956.—Whereas 1 appears to the (tovernor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
viz., for the settlement of immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on uccount 
of circumstances heyond their control in the 
village of Gar Shyamnagar, jurisdiction — list 
No. 19, police-station Jnagaddal, district 24- 
‘Parganas, 1t is hereby notified that for the above 
muTpose a piece of land comprising cadastral survey 
plots Nos. 103, 109, 110, 111, 112, 118, 114, 18, 
116, 137, 147, 148, 149, 159, 160, 161, 162 
163 and parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 136, 
188, 141, 142, 102 and measuring, more or less, 
27.33 ucres 18 likely to be required within the 
aforesaid village of Gar Shyamnagar. 

This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
auld section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the Collector, 24-Pargonas, and the Refugee 
Rehabilitation Conmnissioner, West Benal, tor the 
dime being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon 
and survey the land and do all other acts required 
or permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


Parr 1] 
20ت تتٌٗٗ!٢ٌ٣ٌيٌپٌ+  2 2 پ9‎ a eee 


Burdwan.—No, 12124L,.Dev.—I1th July 1956. 
—-Whereas 16 appears to the Governor that land is 
likely tu be needed for a public purpose, viz., for 
the settlement of immigrants who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal on account ot 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Bularampur, jurisdiction list No. 81, police- 
stution Ausgram, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that for the above purpose a piece of land 
comprising cadastral survey 08 Nos. 12, 18, 
62 to 65 and 276/293 and party of cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 66, 276 and measuring, more or less, 
110.12 acres is likely to be required within the 
aforesaid village of Balarampur. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the power conterred by the afure- 
said section, the Governor .is pleased to authorise 
the Collector, Burdwan, and the Refugee Rehabi- 
litation Commissioner. West Bengal, tor the time 
being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
officers, servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
907০ the land and do all ohter acts required or 
permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected 


\ in the 
8106 of the Collector, Burdwan. 


24.Parganas.—No. 12126L.Dev.—llth July 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public ‘pag ia 
viz., for the settlement of immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on 
account of circumstances beyond théir control in 
the village of Tizalpukuria, police-station Habra, 
district 24-Parganas, it is hereby notified that 
for the above purpose pieces of land comprising 
cadastral surve 0۷ Nos. 446 to 448, 451, 452, 
454, 456 to 462, 465, 466, 468 to 473, 475, 477, 479 
too 484, 488 to 494, 497 to 507, 511 to 516, 584, 
635, 697 to 643, 645 to 5538, 563 to 566, 682, 
(91, 692, 810 to 816, 883, 857, 830, $40 and parts 
ot cadastral survey plot Nos. 458, 4638, 464, 467, 
474, 476, 478, 484, 485, 487, 495, 496, 508, 533, 
936, 544, 570, 830, 83], 854, 836, 838, 841 and 
843 and altogether measuring, more or less, 24.44 
acres, are likely to be required within the afore- 
paid village of Hizalpukuria. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Art, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section, the Governor is pleased to 
authorise the Collector, 24-Parganas, and the 
Refugee Hehabilitation Commissioner, West 
Bengal, for the time being engaged in the under- 
taking, with their officers, servants and workmen, 
to enter upon and survey the land and do_ all 
other ucts required or permitted by that section. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
ofhee of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


Murshidabad.—No. 12132L.Dev.—llth J ay 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel so much 
of the notification No. 194681..Dev., dated the 23rd 
December 1954, under section 4 of the Weat 
Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at 
page 29, Part T of the Calcutta Gazette of the 
6th January 1955, as relates to pieces of land 
comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 4 to 6, 13 to 
16, 21, 28, 26 to 47, 49, 51, 55 to 98, 298, 299, 
317 to 322, 926 to 329, 424, 426, 442 to 444, 446, 
46/940 86/941, 69/946, 69/947, 91/948, 1354 to 
1972, 1408 to 1414, 1416 te 1427, 1628 to 1597, 
1602 to 1610, 1626 to 1628, 1680 to 1685, 1674 
and part of cadastral aurvey plot No. 1386 in the 
Village of Daulutabad, jurisdiction list No. 129, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


2068 


18১০০ ছি Meth thet yn REA SR IR AE RETIRE 


cadastral survey plot Nos. 2 to 7, 10, 21 to 26, 
61, 32, 46 to 73, 88 to 92, 94 to 99, 114 to 122, 173 
to 1838, 187 to 190, 192 to 196, 198 to 211, 72/216 
in the village of Mukundapur, jurisdiction — list 
No. 180 and cadustral survey plot Nos. 21, 22, 24 
to 33, 77, 78, 81 to 85, 97 to 99, 101, 117 to 119, 
122, 124, 126 to 136, 144 to 153, 174, 201 to 204, 
206 to 211, 219 to 225, 227, 228, 241, 243 to 246, 
268, 280) to 289, 291, 292, 294 to 805, 311 to 313, 


* 848, 861, 980, 382, 384 to 392, 396 to 397, 633 to 


640, 643 to 656, 658 to 660, 662 to 666, 150/871, 
390/873, 663/876 and parts of cadastral survey 
plots Nos. 23, 41, 164) 326, 383, 617, 657 in the 
villuge of Chhutipur, jurisdiction list No. 133 and 
altogether measuring, more or less, 104.2G acres, 
in respect of acquisition of land in the villages of 
Daulatabad, Mukundapur and Chhutipur, police- 
station Berhampore Town, district Ree be. 
for the purpose of settlement of immigrants, who 
have migrated into the State of West Bengal, on 
account of circumstances beyond their control. 


Maida.—No. 12576L.Dev.—1l6th July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so much of 
the notification No. LOL72L..Dev., dated the 30th 
May 1955, under section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land Development aud Planning Act, 1948 (West 
Refgal Act XXI1 of 1948), published at page 
2571, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 
30th June 1955, us relates to a piece of land com- 
prising cadastral survey plot No. 1788 and parts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1230, 1281, 1713, 
1789 to 179] and measuring, more or less, 1.9435 
acres in the yillage of Sarbari, jurisdiction )دنا‎ 
No. 98, police-station Malda, district Malda, in 
respect of acquisition of land in the afvresaid 
village for the purpose of immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on 
account of circumstances beyond their control. 


ERRATUM. 


Murshidabad.—No. = 12180L.Dev.—llth July 
18006.18 line 14 of the notification No. 194681..- 
Dev., dated the 23rd December 1954, under section 
4 of the West Bengal Land Development and 
Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI of 
1948), published at page 29, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette of the Gth January 1955, im 
respect of acquisition of land in the villages of 
Daulatabad, Mukundapur and Chhutipur, jurisdic- 
tion list Nos. 129, 130 and 189, respectively, 
poate Senor Berhampore Town, district Murshida- 
nud, for the purpose of settlement of immigrants, 
who have migrated into the State of West Bengal 
on account of circumstances beyond their control— 

Read “253.59 acres” tn place of ‘'264.95 acrea’’. 


DECLARATIONS 


Malda.—No. 12024L.Dev.—l0th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
needed for a public purpose, namely, for the settle- 
ment of immigrants who have migrated into the 
State of West Bengal on account of circumstances 
beyond their control in the village of Bachamari, 
jurisdiction list No. 104, police-station Malda, 
district Malda, it is hereby declared that for the 
above purpose a piece of land comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 196, 198, 199, 238 to 273, 275 to 
277, 280 to 298, 304 to 320, 324, 327 to 339, 382 
to 999, 425, 440, 444, 446 and 453 and parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 191, 278, 299, 801) 303, 
340, 4993 and 445, and measuring, more or less, 
15.51 acres is required within the aforesaid village 
of Bachamari. 

This declaration is made under the provisions of 
section 6 of the West Bengal Iand Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI of 
1948), to all whom it may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Mulda. 


2960) 


24-Parganas.—No. =12036L.Dev.—l0th July 
1956.— Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is needed for a public purpose, namely, for 
the settlement of immigrants who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Sukchar, jurisdiction list No, 9, police-station 
Khardah, district 24-Parganas, it is hereby 
declured that tor the above purpose a piece of land 
comprising cadastral survey plot Nos. 3776, 3790 
to 3795, 3800 and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 3774, 3777, 3779 and 3808 and measuring, 
more or less, 7.70 acres is required within the 
aforesaid village of Sukchar. 

This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


Murshidabad.—No. 12134L.Dev.—llth July 
1956. — Whereas it appears to the Governor 


that land is needed for a public pur- 
pose, viz., for the settlement of immigrants, 
who have migrated into the State of West 


Bengal, on account of circumstances beyond thpir 
contro] in the villages of Daulatabad, Mukunda- 
pur und Chhutipur, jurisdiction list Nos. 129, 0 
and 188, respectively, police-station Berhampore 
Town, district Murshidabad, it is hereby declared 
that pieces of land comprising cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 1870 to 1884, 1886 to 1407, 1428 to 1509, 
1519 to 1527, 1395/2164, 1520/2181 of village 
Daulatabad, cadastral survey plot Nos. 8, 9, 11 to 
20, 27 ) 30, 33 to 45, 100 to 118, 123 to 172, 191, 
123/1212, 28/214, 88/215 of village Mukundapur 
and cadastral survey plot Nos. 79, 80, 102 to 116, 
120, 121, 128, 125, 187 to 148, 169, 175, 176, 182 
io 200, 205, 212 to 218, 226, 229 to 240, 242, 246 
to 267, 269 to 279, 290, 293, 306 to 310, 314 to 324, 
326 to 388, 357, 359, 362 to 365, G12 to 616, 618 
to 631, 641, 642, 144/870, 241/879, 244/880, 
246/881, 297/882 and parts of cadastral survey 
plots Nos. 28, 154, 265, 325, 388, 617 of village 
(‘hhutipur, and altogether measuring, more or less, 
149.33 acres, ure required within the aforesaid 
villages of Daulatabad, Mukundapur and Chhuti- 
pur. 


This declaration is made under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land-may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, Murshidabad. 


Malda.—No. 125781L.Dev.—l6th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 1s 
needed for a public purpose, namely, for the 
settlement of immigrants who have migrated 
into the State of ৮৬০৭৮ Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Sarbari, jurisdiction list No. 98, police-station 
Malda, district Malda, it is hereby declared that 
for the above purpose a piece of land comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 1227, 1715, 1716, 
1717, 1718, 1720, 1726, 1726, 1727, 1729, 1734, 
1735, 1740, 1741, 1742, 1744 and 1794 and parte 
of cadastral survey 1১108 Nos. 1219 to 1228, 1228, 


1232, 12353, 1713, 1728, 17:8, 1746 
to 1749, 1754 to 1759, 1761, 1763, 1789 
to 1791, 1795 and 1796 and measuring, more or 


less, 6.5393 ucres, ig required within the aforesaid 
village of Sarbari. 

This declaration is made, under the ‘provisions 
of section 6 of West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


۸ plan of the Jand may be inspected in the uffice 
of the Collector, Malda. : = 


1111) CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 


[Parr I 
Sponge ھت _ سو ےہ‎ ann Se a ATO ۷× ےہ‎ 


ERRATUM 


Murshidabad,.—12014L.Dev.—l0th July 1956.— 
In declaration No. 9888].Dev., dated the 4th 
June 1956, under section 6 of the West Bengal 
Land Development und Planning Act, 1948 (Weat 
Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at page 2189, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 14th June 
1956, in respect of acquisition of land for the 
settlement of displaced persons who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal for the circumstances 
beyond their control in the village of Barua, 
jurisdiction list No. 60, police-station Beldanga, 
district Murshidabad— 


Read heading 
Parganas’, 


‘‘Murshidabad”® for ‘'24- 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Requisition 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 12458Reqn.—l4th July 1956.—Whereas 


the premises specified in the schedule below were 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the West Bengal Premises Requisition and 
Control (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1947; 


And whereas no agreement can be reached in 
respect of the amount of compensation payable 
on account of such requisition of the said 
premises ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11 
of the said Act, the Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri N. C. Chakravarti, Additional District and 
Sessions Judge, 24-Parganas, as an Arbitrator for 
the determination of the amount of such 
compensation. 


This cancels notification No, 5808Reqn., dated 
the 26th March 1956: 
THE SCHEDULE 
L.A.R. case No. 17 of 1951-52 


1. Shrimati Nirmala 9816 


Monthly rent for premises 
Ballav, wife of Shri Haren own as Kacharibari 
dra Nath Ballav. Hizalpukuria, Habra. 


2. Shrimati Anila Bala Ballav, 
wife of Bhupendra Nath 
Ballav. 


3. Shrimati Bulu Rani Ballav, 
wife of Tarit Kumar Ballav. 

4. Shrimati Durgs Rani Sawoo, 
wife of Sarat Chandra 
Sawoo—all of 26B 08112 
Street, Shambazar, Cal- 
cutta. 


By order of the Governor, 
R. M. SAMANTA, Asst. Secy. 


DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE 


Orders by the Director of Agriculture, 
West Bengal 


Dated Caleutta, the 27th July 1956. 


Shri Sasadhar J)igar, Assistant Agricultura! 
Chemist, is hereby grunted earned leave on medi- 
cal certificate for twenty-three days for the 
period from 25th May 1956 to 16th June 1956 
under rule 167(i1) of West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I, with permission to prefix and affix holidays 
and Sunday to the leave under West Bengal Service 
Rules 153-156. 


He was likely on the expiry of leave return to 
the station from which he proceeded on leave and 
he actually resumed his duties on 18th June 1956. , 


Hi. K. NANDI, Director 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1986, 2961 


বাস্তৃহারা ভ্রাণ ও ae 1۱ 


REFUGEE RELIEF AND REHABILITATION 
DEPARTMENT 


সংস্থা | 
Establishment 
প্রজ্ঞাপনাবল”ী। 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 922bKstt.—2]st July 1956.—The Governor 

is pleased to appoint the undermentioned persons 
temporarily as Assistant Engineers in the Contract 
Division under the Chief Engineer, Construction 
Board, West Bengal, with effect from the date on 
which they assume charge of their posts, until 
further orders :— 


(1) Shri Sukhendra Nath Roy, 
(2) Shri Sanat Kumar Mukherjee. 


No. 9280 Lstt.—25th July 1956.—Shri Ajitsinha 
Roy, Deputy Controller, Refugee Relief and 
Rehabilitation, Barrackpore, in the district of 24- 
Parganas, is transferred to Nadia (Sadar) and post- 
ed as District Rehabilitation Officer with effect 
from the date on which he joins there until further 
orders vice Shri D. P. Banerjee, Special Officer 
(Rehabilitation) placed under suspension. 


No. 9282Kstt.—25th July 1956.—Shri Mohitosh 
Maitra, District Rehabilitation Officer, Jalpaiguri, 
ia transferred as such to Malda with effect from 
the date on which he joins there until further 
orders vice Shri §. C. Ghosh, placed under 
suspension. 


নং ৯২৯৮এস্ট।_২৬এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-বাস্তুছারা a ও 
পুনর্বাসন প্রাধিকারক (শিক্ষা) 35۱ center মজ্‌মদারকে পশ্চিম- 
বঙ্গ POS নিয়মাবলশর (৯ম খণ্ড) ১৮৪(ব)৫২) সংখ্যক 'নিয়মানৃসারে 
ইং ৬ই জুলাই ৯৯৫৬ তারথ হইতে গড় বেতনে এক মাস দুই দিনের 
ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 

রাজ্যপালের আদেশানসারে, 
কে, চক্রবর্ভী, উপ-সচিব | 


No. 9298Estt.—26th July 1956.—The Goveruor 
is pleased to allow Shrimati Gladys Mazumdar, 
Special Officer, Education, Refugee Relief and 
Rehabilitation Directorate, leave on average pa 
for one month and two days, with effect from 6t 
June 1956, under rule 184(b)(ii) of the ۵)۷ 
Bengal Service 1001989 Part IT. 


No. 9308Estt.—26th July 1956.—The (Governor 
is pleased to appoint Shri D. C. Roy Chowdhury 
temporarily as District Rehabilitation Officer, with 
effect from the date on which he assumes charge of 
the post and to post him at Jalpaiguri, until 
further orders, vtce Shri Mohitosh Maitra, 
transferred. 

No. 9310Estt.—26th July 1966.—The under- 
mentioned Rehabilitation Officers are transferred as 
such to the stations noted against each, with effect 
from the date on which they join there, until 
further orders :— 


27 Shri H. 19, Banerjee—Alipur (08۰ 
2) Shri Parimal Jutta—Barrackpore. 
By order of the Governor, 
K. CHAKRABORTY, Dy. Secy. 
শিক্ষা বিভাগ । 
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 
Calcutta.—-No, 746] Edn. /3S-181/56.—14th July 
1956.—1n uccordance with sub-section (4) of ৪৪০ 
tion 2 of the St. Thomas School Act, 1923 (Bengal 
Act No. XII of 1923), the list of ew officio and 


nominated Governors of the St. Thomas School, 
Calcutta, is pwhlished for information :— 


(1) The Most Revd. the Lord Bishop of 
Caleuttu (ar officiv). 

(2) The Rt. Revd. the Archdeacon of Calcutta 
(ex officto). 

(3) The Master of the Calcutta Trades Asso- 
elation (ex 017০০). 

(4) Mr. S. Petrie, nominated by the Bengal 
Chamber of Commerce. 


(0) Mr. A. N, Thildreth, nominated by the 
Anglo-Indian Association, West Bengul. 


(6) Mr. .للا‎ C. Chippendale, Rector, St. James’ 
School, Calcutta, nominated by the Uovv- 
ernment of West Bengal. 


(7) Mr. F, Wade-Cooper of the General Elec- 
tric Co. of India, nominated by the 
Government of West Bengal. 


(8) Miss Suhashini Biswas, nominated by the 
(iovernment of West Bengal. 


(9) Mr. S. Bell-Hart, nominated by the Vestry 
of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Calcutta. 


(10) Mr. N. Sinclair-Jones, nominated by the 
Vestry of St. John’s Church, Calcutta. 


(11) Mrs. J. Bennett, nominated by the Vestry 
of St. John’s Church, Calcutta. 


(12) The Revd. H. K. Das Gupta, nominated by 
the Vestry of St. Stephen’s Church, 
Kidderpore. 


‘No. 7540Edn. /10R-12/56.—16th July 1956.— 
The following draft of amendments which the 
Governor, in exercise of the power conferred by 
sub-section (1), and in particular by clause (r) of 
sub-section (2), of section 66 of the Bengal (Rural) 
Primary Education Act, 1930 (Bengal Act VII of 
1930), proposes to make in the rules published 
with this department notification No. 41167105. 
dated the Ist November 1945, is published for 
the information of persona likely to be aifected 
thereby, 


2. The draft will he taken into consideration 
after a period of thirty days from the date of its 
publication in the Caleutta Gazette and any 
objection or suggestion with respect thereto, which 
may be received by the undersigned within the said 
period, will be duly considered : 


Draft Amendments 


To sub-rule (1) of rule 7 of the said rules, add 
the following proviso, namely :— 

‘Provided that the Board may, with the appro- 
val of the State Government. sanction, as a 
very special case, an withdrawal of an 
advance exceeding three months’ pay of a 
subscriber, if the reasons for such with- 
drawal and the amount at his credit in the 
Fund, so justify.”’ 


কাঁলকাতা।--নং ৭৫৫১৯শিক্ষা।৪এ-১১২1৫৬।--১৬ই HIME ১৯৫৬। 
_-কাঁলকাতা সংস্কৃত কলেজের পশ্চিমবঙ্গ উত্তর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের (Ly 
বিভাগ) সংস্কৃতের অস্থায়ী অধ্যাপক Cea গোরশনাথ ভট্টাচার্য, এম,এ, 
[লট কোলঃ);কে এ পদে ও এ ۳چ‎ ১২ই afew ১৯৫৬ তারখ 
হইতে স্থাঁয়ভাবে নিয়োগ করা ۱ 


Calcutta.— No. 7551 Edn. /4A-112/56.—16th July 
1956.—Dr. Gourinath Bhattacharyya, M.A. 
N.Tatt. (Cal.), officiating Professor of Sanskrit 
Sanskrit College, Calcutta, in the West Bengal 
Senior Educational Service (Men’s Branch), is 
appointed substantively to that post and in that 
aervice with effect from the 12th Apri] 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. M. SEN, Secy. 


§ 
1ٗ 


2962 


THE GALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION WEST BENGAL 
Results of the First Half-Yearly Departmental Examination of Assistant Magistrates and other officers held in May, 1956. 
NOTIFICATION. 
No. 5901P.8.C.— 6th July 1956.—The undernoted officers have passed in the subjects mentioned in the table below :— 
“٠۳ '' indicates Pass. 
Asterisk indicates distinction. 
(Names have been arranged alphabetically.) 


1.A.8., W.B.0.8. and W.B.J.C.8. Officers. 


Law I Law Il. Accounts, Hindi. Pengali. 
Law Still liable in or 
Til, completely passed. 
Name, Higher. | Lower. 
§ be 38 2 hy সে ty 
Os سا‎ 
2 | 4 ্ 2 i 
aq | এ ট্রি] দি] মর এ 4 
I, A. S. Officers. 
Bhattacharyya, Monomoy و‎ ۰ _* oe P ee ۲ ٠ ee Law II (Higher) 
and Accounta II. 
Ghosh, Tejamoy -۰ ie - - er ৮ oe P -۰ ee ae Passed completely. 
{Mazumdar, Roma ‘4 a 7 3 ۲ 7 P ٢ Pp 7 Hindi (Higher and 
Lower), 
Raghavan, B. 8. a = ٠ | as ee ٠ ee ১ Passed completely. 
Law I “Lew I Accounts. Hindi. 
Law Still liable in or 
Narne. 111. complotely passed. 
Lower. | Higher. | Lower. Paper I. از‎ Higher. | Lower. 
W. B. C. 8. (Hxecutwe) 
Officers. 
ji, Dili - P P P و‎ 5 Law I (Higher), 
Banerji, Dilip Kumar Accounte I and 
and Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 
i Bhusan P টি P Pp 5 os P ۲ Law II (Higher) 
০ and Accounts II. 
i P P os oe ۲ ۶ Law I (Higher), 
11385, Santi Kumar Law 11 (Higher) 
and Law ۰ 
tacharyy é 3 ۲ P P P ۰ es Accounts II and 
নি an سس نج‎ 7 Hind: (Higher and 
Jan. Lower). 
howmi noran} P و‎ P : : ; ۲ Law ILI, ۵8ء۸‎ 
- 0: sc Z II and Hunii 
(Higher). 
akra ° ۲ ۲ ۰ 7 ৯ এ ৮ Law I (11121191), 
এল শহর Law ITI, Accounte 
II and = ناسنھ‎ 
(Higher), 
Chatterjeo, Sum! Kanti .. ee ee ee oe ৪ 2 ٠ ۰ Passed ,اما ماج ہہ‎ 
Choudhuri, Asok Gobinda P P 7 ; P P ‘ Law 11۰ 
Das Gupta, Asit Ranjan. . P P P . 5 و‎ ۲ 5 Law ITI. 


Part |] 


Name. 


W. B. ۹۸. S. (Hxeoutive) 
Officera—Concld, 


609৮৪, Subimal ১৬ 


18084809195, 2২118917167 . ۱ | 


Gautam, 01866 Ranjan 
Ghosh, Tushar Kanti .. 


Ghoshal, ۲٦ ripati ee 


Goswami, Sripati ee 
§Guha Majumder, Chitta 
Ranjan. 


Mukherjee, Bholanath .. 
Mukherji, Barun Kumar 


Ray, Samirendra Nath 


Chaudhuri, Bimal‏ ما1 
Kumar.‏ 


§Roy, Asoke Mohan 7 
§Sarkar, Nirmal Kumar .. 


Sen, Sukumar 
Ren Gupta, Dilip Kumar 
Sinha, Mihirbaran -۰ 


{Sinha Roy Barman, 
Malay Mohan. 


W.B.J.0.8. Officere. 


Ahmed, Kamalnddin مہ‎ 


Banerjee, Dhrubs 
Narayan. 


Banerjee, Sibnath 7 


Banerji, Kanti Ranjan 


Banerji, Parimal Chandra 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


1.A.8., W.B.C.8. and W.B.J.C.8. Officers— Contd, 


Paper | Paper | Higher. | Lower. 
I, 12 


না টি ৩ SS উস 


2963 


Still liable in 
or completely 
paseed. 


Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


Hindi ( Higher). 
Accounts II. 
Law II (Higher), 


Accounte I and II 
and Hindi 


Law II (Higher), 
Accounts I and 
and Hindi 


Passed completely. 
Accounts II and 
Handi (Higher 
and Lower). 


Passed completely. 


Law II, Accounts 
I and II. 


Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher), 
Law III, Accounts 
II and Hindi 
(Higher). 


Passed completely. 


Accounts II. 
Accounte II and 
Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 

Passed completely. 

Ditto. 

Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher), 
Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


Accounts II. 


Lew II (Higher), 


Law III, Accounte 
II and Hindi 
(Higher). 


Law I (Higher and 
Lower), w 1 
(Higher), Law III, 
Accounts I and I, 
Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


Law II (Higher), 

Law ITI, Accounts 
II and Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower). 


Passed completely. 


Law I (Higher and 
Lower), Law II 
(Higher), Law ,11ا‎ 
Accounts II and 
Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


2064 THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


পপ 


{Part I 


7 ضہو0)-۳۰وص0111 ارہ یس 1.A.§., ۷۷۱۰.0. and‏ 


Law I. Law II, Accourits. Hindi. 


Still liable in 
or completely 
passed. 


Name. Law 


Higher. | Lower, | Higher. | Lower. | III. Paper 78 Higher. | Lower. 
i ‘ 


১১০ 


W. B. J. C. 5. Officers— 
Contd, 


6899৩, Suhas Kumar ., 


Basu Rai Chaudhuri, 


Kalijiban. 


Bhattacharyya, Kedar 


Nath. 
Biswas, Juran Chandra 


Biswas, Mani Gopal 


Biswas, Ramesh Chandra 
Bose, Amit Kanti ee 


Brahmachari, Maniklal .. 


Chakrabarti, Panchanan 


Chakravorti, Prabhas 
Chandra. 


Chanda, Mrinal Kanti .. 


Chatterjee, Manatosh 
Chatterjee, Sadhan Lal 


Chattopadhyay, Manas 
Kumar 
87058, Dhruba Kumar .. 


Daa, Heripada, No. II .. 
Das, Kanai Lal &% 


pe 


Passed completely, 


Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher 
and Lower), Law 

I 


(Higher and 
Lower), Acodunts 


Law I eee and 
wer), Law II 
(Higher), Law III, 
Accounts II and 
Hindi (Higher). 


Law 11 (‘Higher and 
Lower), Law III, 
Accounts I and II, 
Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


Passed complotely. 


Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher 
and Lower), Law 
III, Avpcounts I 
and II and Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower). 


Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher 
and Lowor), Law 
III, Accounts I 
and 11 and Hind: 


(Higher). 


Law I (Higher and 
Lower), Law II 
(Higher ant) 
Lower), Law III, 
Accounts I and ۰ 


Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher), 


Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


Accounts TI, 

Law I (Higher), 
Law II age 
and Lower), Law 
III, Actounta 1 
and ہ11‎ Hindi 
(Higher and 


Lower). 


Accounts II, 


Passed completely. 
Hindi (Higher). 


Lew II (H ا‎ 
and Lower), Law 
Il], Accounts I 
and II, and 17 


ees and 
r). 


Part মু] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 6 2905 


Namo. 


W. B. 7۰ 0, S. Officera— 
Contd. 


Das Gupta, Arun Kumar 


Des Gupta, Kalyan 
Kumar, 


§Das Gupta, Tribedi 
Kanta. 


De, Chanchal Kumar .. 


Debnath, Dhirendra. 
Kumar. 


¢Ganguli, Girindra Mohan 


Ganguly, Sudhirendra Nath 


Ghosh, Anil Kumar 


Ghosh, Debabrata 


§Ghosh, Pabitra Kumar .. 


Ghosh, Subodh Kumar .. 


Goswami, Radharaman ,. 


ee 


Guha, Hirendra Nath 


Gupte, Kshirode Bihari 


Mandal, Chintahoren ১০ 


1.۵۰ ۷80. and ۷۷۱,۴۰. Ofticers— Contd. 


Still liable in 


Law 
Higher, | Lower, | Higher.| Lower. | ۰ Paper nape Higher. | Lower. i লা 
I. Ii, 


lee ee ae ee ee ee ee ee ۶۲ Law I (Higher and 
Lower), Law 1 
(Higher and 
Lower), Law III, 
Accounts I and IT, 
and Hindi 
(Higher). 


oe os ۲ ۲ -۰ - টি ae es Law III, Aocounte 
I and MII and 
“Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 


: ee ae oe ও Passed completely. 


her), 
Law II 


P ee ee P ee oe ee ee Law I (Hig 
(Higher 


(Higher). 
ee ae ee ve oe P P ee ae Law I (Higher and 


ee ee P Pp ৬৬ P ৬৩ سو‎ ee Law I (ii her and 
Lower), w III, 
Accounte IT and 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 


P ea P ee Pp ee ee Pp Law I (Higher), 
Law II (Higher), 
Law ITI, Accounts 
II and Hindi 
(Higher). 


7 P ee و‎ P P - os ae Law I (Higher), 
‘ Law [1 (Higher 
and Lower), 
Accounts it, 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 


۳ P ٢ ۲ وج‎ ۲ ae «= ৮৬ Aocounts II and 
Hindi (Higher and 
Lower), 


ee ۲ eo ae ere رب‎ om رک‎ Law I (Higher and 
5 Lower), Law ۰ 


on P Law II (Hi her 
and Lower), Law 
۱ 7 II, Accounte I 
and IT and Hindi 
(Higher), 


29 P ee ee ee Pp ee سے‎ P Law IT (Higher and 
Lower), Law III, 
Accounts II and 
Hindi (Higher). 


p* P P P = ee ৬৪ ae P Law III, Aocounte 
I and II and 
Hindi (Higher). 


কি 7 oe ve و‎ ۲ - es * ৪ Law I (Higher and 
Lower), Law 11 

(Higher and 

৪ Lower), Law III, 

Accounts II and 

Hindi (Higher 


2966 


Name, 


ঢা. B. J. O. 8S. Offtcera— 
Contd. 


Mitra, Sontosah Kumar .. 


Mukerji, Sankarananda .. 
Mukherjee, Sitangshu 
Kumar. 


Mukherjee, Sunil Kumar 


Mukhopadhyay, Nimai 
Charan. 
Ray, Samir Chandra 
Sanat 


Roy Chowdhury, 
Kumar. 


Sahana, Sailendra Nath 


Samadder Choudhury, 
Radhika Ranjan. 


Sarkar, Manindra Kumar 


Sarkar, Phanindra Kumar 
Sen, Bibhuti Bhusan 


Sen, Khagendra Nath .. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 
০০০০০০০২০২৬ 
.ا‎ A. 8 W. B. 6. 6, and W. B. ৫, 0. 8. Officers —(Conid.), 


Law I. 


Higher, 


Lower, 


Law II. 


Higher. 


Lower. 


Law ITI 


oe 


Accounta, 


Paper I {Paper 11.1 Higher. 


۲ * 

٠ ae P 
P ও 

P 

P P 
P 

P ee & 
P ۰ 

P ee P 
P P 7 
رب‎ P ee 
رب‎ P seo 


Hindi, 


Lower, 


[Pant I 


Still liable جا‎ 
or completely 
passed, 


er EE ETS 


Law I ( Higher), 
Law IT (Hi ne 
and Lower), 

II, Accounts 71 


and 


Law I (Higher and 
Lower), Law II 
(Higher and 
Lower), Law III, 
Account 1 and IT, 


Law I (Higher), and 

Law II (Higher 
and Lower), Law 
1115, Accounta II 


and ‘Hindi 
Higher) 
Law II (Higher), 


Law III, Accounts 
11 and Hindi 
and 


Passed completely. 


Law I _ (Higher) 
Law II (Hi ea 
and Lower), 
IIT, Accounts ٦ 
and Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 


Law দি (H one 
Law igher 
and লিভ Law 
111, Accounts 1 
and Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 


Law I (Higher and 
Lower), Law II 
(Higher and 
Lower), Law III, 
08ھ‎ 1 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 


pst I 1 (Higher 
ae টন 
III, Acoounte 1 
and II, Hindi 
(Higher), 

Law I (Hi and 
Lower), লিন Ii, 
Acoounta ITI. 

Hindi (Higher). 


Law I (Hi 
Lower), 
(Higher), Law III, 
Accounts I and IT, 
Hindi (Higher). 


Law (I 
Law II 


her and 


Higher), 
۱ ghey 
wer), 


Law I (Higher), 
Lew II (Higher 
and Lower), Law 
III, Accounta ,لا‎ 
Hindi (Higher). 


Part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1946 ~967 


جح ےج سس 


1.A.8., W.B.C.2. and ۷۷ .6.8.ل۔ تا.‎ Officers—Concld. 


২১২০ জম ee 7 — are. = ৮ সা আর স্পা = el: ME ee ০০ রা rote ہو سے‎ 


Law I, Law II. Accounts, Hindi, 


Still liable 15 
or complotely 
pasard, 


Law )1 
Lower, Paper 1.|Paper 11.۱ Higher. 


Name. 


Higher, | Lower, | Higher. 


PS | eS | es: | SD | eS মা ১ le 


W. B. J.C. ۵, Officers— 
Coneld. 

Sen, Saradindu 7 P Law IT (Higher and 
Lower), Law ITI, 
Accounts I and 
II, Hind: (Higher 
and Lower), 


Sen Gupta, Manindra Nath Passed completely. 


Law III, Aooounts 


Sen Gupta, Sushil Kumar 


Bidhanta, Nripendra Nath P ۲ Law IT (Higher and 
Lowor), Law ITI, 
Accounts I and LI, 


Hind (Higher). 


W. 8. 0. ৪. (Judicial) Officers. 


ieee ee رو گا‎ 7 85 > = - শপ ۔‎ স্পিন سس — = ہو میتی‎ সক পা بیو سس‎ — আপ سے سس‎ = Aone eye ee eet 


Hindi. 
٦ Still Hable in or 
Namwe. Land Laws, | Genoral Law. pale ge ona জগ পিজি passed. 
Higher. Lower. 
EL A سومومسممسسےوسسسہٗیےہمڑمەے‎ 50 পপ 
Bagchi, Satya Prasanna pt P P Passed completely, 
Rules and Orders 
and Hindi 
(Higher). 
Bandyopadhyay, Deb pe ۲ ۲ Land Laws and 
Kumar. Civil Rives and 
Orders. 
Banerjee, Pabitra Kumar .. 7 ۲ p General Law, Civil 
Rules and 
0009. 
Banerjeo, Sachindranath .. pe ne P Land Laws and 
Hind: (Higher). 
Basu, Amarondra Nath pe Land Laws, Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower). 
Biswas, Samir Kumar a P et 5 Land Laws, Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower). 
Chatterjeo, Amal Kumar .. ۲ Land Laws, Civil 
Rules and 
Orders, Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower). 
Ganguli, Sudhanshu Shekhar বীর 7 P Land Lawa, 
General Law, 
Civil Rules and 
Orders, Hindi 
(Higher). 
Ghosh, Prafulla Kumar P P ۲ Land Laws. 
Guha, Sukumar 5 P ws Passed completely. 
H i ‘ pt = 7 Land Laws, Hindi 
ore, Jyotirindra Nath (Higher eee 
Lower), 
K রন pe 7 P Land Laws and 
০০৪০ Hindi (Higher). 
Mukerjee, Mihir 7 ۲ ۲ Pp Land Laws, Civil 
৪ Rules and 
Orders, 
R 7 ۲ i* Land Lava, 
oy, Manabondra Nath 0009 
Samaddar, Chinmoy Pe ۲ ۲ Puased complotely. 


امم 


2968 


I. P. S. ۸۰ 


Basu, Sugate 


Bhattacharya, Chandra 
Nath. 


Bhattacharyya, Rathin- 
dra Nath. 


Kitson, Sidney - 


Mukerjeo, Balendra Nath 


Sen, Dip Kumar oe 


W.B.PS. Officers. 


Barari, Dhirendra Mohan 

Batabyal, Bata Krishna 

Bhattacharyya, Paritosh 
Kumar. 

Chakrabartti, Santosh 
Kumar. 


Chakravarty, Sadananda 


Deb, Rarmkrishna Saran 


Majumdar, Syamal 
Chandra. 

Mondlo, Paul Ajit 

Mukharji, Nabendu 
Sundar. 


Roy, Mrinal Kanti 


Sanyal, Bimal Kanti .. 


Assistant Commisstonera, 
Caleutta /৮01805, 
Banerjee, Nripendra Nath 
Ghosh, Probodh Kumar.. 


Mahalanobis, Jyotish 
Chandra. 


Mukharjee, Sudhamoy .. 


Police Officera under 
Government of Tripura, 


Chakraborty, Ashutosh .. 


Das Gupte, Chittos 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


Police Officers. 
Accounts. 
Law 
I. 
I II. 
P : 
P 7۲ Pp 
Pp 
P 
Pp P : 
re P P 
7 1 P 
: Pp va 
P p* 
we ps 
: P ۲ 
۲ P 
ee P 
e P 
oe Pp 
۵ P 
e Pp 
৪ P ae 
P Pp 


Hindi. 


Higher, | Lower. 


ae 


[Part I 


Bengali, 
Still liable in or 
complotely passed. 
Higher, | Lower. 


5 Criminology anc 
Accounts I and 


IT. 
oe ve Passed completely 
৯৯ Criminology. 


Law I, Crimino. 
logy, Accounts I, 
Bengali (Higher 


and Lower). 
es 7۰ Passed completely. 
oe ১০ Criminology, Ao. 
counts IT. 
as 7 Accounts IT. 
7 ۰ ۲٥۵۵۰٣٢ completely. 
7 7 Ditto, 
رف‎ ee Ditto. 
- 7 Law I and IT, Cri. 


minology, Ac: 
counte I and II, 
Hindi (Higher) 


oe a Passed completely 

se ee Ditto. 

٠ ٠ Criminology. 

ee — Passed complotely 
5 এ Ditto. 

٠ 7 Accounts I, 

۳ -۰ Accounte IT. 
۰۲ Account I. 


aa 7 Accounta I, 


- Accounts II. 


٦ Law I and IT, Cri- 
minology 804 
Accounts IT. 


= Law I and IT, Cri- 
minology, 10701 
(Higher and 
Lower). 


পপ উর পতি اساکیوچوووےڈووومومسسہلہ‎ 


Part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2969 


nA AE Rn EE REE سس شس تس چس سے سج تح سک‎ ১৭ 


Police Officers—Concld. 


Accounts. Hindi. Bengali. 
Name. Law Law Crimi- Still liable in or 


1, II. nology. completely passed. 
I. JI. Higher. | Lower. | Higher. | Lower. 


০ 


۲و٥‎ Officera under Gov- 
ernment of Tripura— 


Coneld. | 
Kapoor, Jagdish Lal ae ee oe ৪ ও ee ae ৪ ৬ oe Cm) P Law I and IT, Cri- 
লা Ben- 
gali (Higher). 
Kochhar, R. C. 7 ne ne 7 নি -۰٦ 7 7 ۶۲ Law I and II, Cri- 
minology, Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower), and 
Bengali (Higher). 
Roy Choudhury, Samaren- es 7 ce P P a me 7 a Law I and II, Cri- 
ra Nath. minology and 
Hindi (Higher). 
Officers of the Irrigation and Waterways Department. 
Accounts. Bengali. 
Name, Law Law Still liable in or 
I It. completely passed. 
1 YI. Higher. Lower. Higher, Lower. 
Aich, Bholanath য় চর oe : ۲ : ৮ : Passed completely. 
Chatterjeo, Tripura oe 7 2 7 as Ps 7 Law ITI. 
Charan. 
Das, Arun Chandra és P - es vx বা, 7۰ es Law IIT. 
Daa Gupta, Ajit Kumar.. 7 7 | 7۰٦ on = om Law I and II. 
Das Gupta, Susil Kumar ee 7 P ই ee 7 ae ১ Passed completely. 
Deb, Saurindramohan .. as 7 ۲ ۳ টি a oe cs Law I and MII, 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 
Mukherjee, Nirendra Nath a -۰ P es an os ۰ ٠ Accounts JI. 
Mukherji, Durga Mohan. . oe os ۲ P on এ oe a ae Passed completely. 
Sheshadri, C. D. oe ee ee se os ৪৯ es P ee Law I and 11 
Siddhanta, Natabar “s ee 7 3 ۲ ve 5 ৭ os - Passed completely, 


Officers of the Works and Bulldings Department. 


(ap ge -- ওভাল PT NI IO LN EE aE TE OS a a a FE I ESE SE ET OR OT a ES F 


Accounts. Hindi. Bengali. 
Name. Still liable in or completely 
0 II. 90909 Lower. 
Banerjea, Ranjit Kumar .. we P - aa 7 Paased completely. 
Chattorjee, Pramada Charan 7 رد‎ ۲ ek ۰٦ ٠ Ditto. 
Ganguli, Arun Chandra... oy ea ۲ we is oe Ditto. 
Officer under Government 
of Tripura. 
Rao, P, Nagaraja کک‎ - és es a P as P Accounts I and II, Hindi 


(Higher) and Bengali 
(Higher). 


Reet 2 এস 


2970) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr I 
یت مم یم کے‎ নি রর লা রি ররর Saas ee ee 
: Excise Officers. 
০৮ ১০ = = 
Accounts. Hindi. 
Nume. Law I Still liable * or completely 
Highor. Lower. ضف‎ 
Barman, Sukumar ৬ o> Hindi (Higher). 
Basu, Niharendra Kumar .. s Pp Law I, Accounts I, Hindi 
(Higher). 
Ganguli, Sib Narayan +7 ক ‘ Law I, Accounts I, Hindi 
(Higher). 
Officers of the Agricuiture Department. 
Accounts. Hindi. 
Still liablo in or completely 
I IT. Higher. Lower. oe 
Banerjeo, Shib Sankar oe as ০) ۲ Passed completely. 
Bhattacharya, Roma 7 টি ۲ P ۲ P Departmental Rules. 
Biswas, Tarit Kanti i oe P ai Hindi (Higher and Lower). 
Chakraborty, Siba Prosad .. 7 oe =f ۲ ۲ Passed لرامامامحصہ‎ 
Chatterjee, Prabodh Kumar 7 we oe ۲ os Ditto. 
Chaudhuri, Sarit Ranjan 7٦ es i ee P P Ditto. 
Das, Gopinath .. ۰ ۶۲ দঃ ۰ ‘ a Accounta I and II, Hindi 
(Higher and Lower). 
Das, Nani Pada .. ৬৪ a ۲ و‎ Passed completely. 
Das Gupta, Nripendu Bikash — °F 7 Ma P P Ditto. 
Dhar, Jitesh Chandra és 7 ۲ P Ditto. 
Dutta, Bhuposh Chandra, .. ۲ -۰ Ditto. 
Dutta, Kironmoy 7 7 “a - ۲ Hindi (Higher). 
Gupta, Mrityunjoy oe ঠক 7 oe P ۲ Passed completely. 
Gupta, Sunil Kanti xe ve em ٠ * ۲ Hindi (Highor). 
Gupte, Suresh Prosad ও P as 7 ۲ P Passed completely. 
Kar, Debesh Krishna es a P oa P P Ditto. _ 
Krishnaswamy, M. A. 2 5 7 ۲ 7 7 Bengali (17761068150 Lower). 
Lahiri, Jyoti Ranjan 7 -7 P P Passed completely. 
Majumdar, Amal Kumar __... 7 en 7 P ۲ Ditto, 
Majumdar, Matilal a sk os P P Ditto. 
Mandal, Ajit Kumar =a ae ee P P Accounts I and II. 
Mandal, Bishnupada 7 P = P ‘ Accounts I, Hind: (Higher 
and Lower). 
Mandal, Lakshmi Narayan .. ۰ ۲ ۲ Pp ۶ Departmental 28198, 
Mitra, Santi Bhusan 7 টি oe te و‎ 7٦ Passed completely, 
Mukheryi, Anil Kumar - P 7 7 و‎ P Accounts IT. 
Mukherjee, Asita Ranjan... 7 7 ns P ۲ Accounts ITI, 
Mukherjee, Kalidas و‎ is 7 on 7 7۲ Passed completely. 
Nag, Jyotirmoy .. - P oe 7 ee P Accounts I and II, Hindi 
(Higher). 
Nath, Bimalendu easy P a وت‎ in oa Accounts I and II, Hindi 
(Higher and Lower). 
Nayak, Sudhir Chandra ‘a ae 7 ۸ P P Departmontal Rules, 


Aocounta I and ITI. 


Part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 297) 


a a a A ETT TT A ০০০০ ০০০৯০ 


Officers of the Agriculture Department—concid. 


a eee ডে 2‏ رد مو 7ج وو وت۔بسوپوتچتت سے রেশ 9 a‏ 


Hindi.‏ .08۰ھ 
Depart -‏ 
Name. mental] Still liable in or com.‏ 
Rules. pletely passed,‏ 
I, II. Higher. Lower.‏ 
Neogi, Arunodaya ৪ P ii ix oa P Accounts I and ITI, Hindi‏ 
(Higher).‏ 
Niyogi, Sachindra Nath = ۲ P ae ay 7 Accounts IT, Hindi (Lligher‏ 
and Lower).‏ 
Paul, Anil Krishna 7 7 7 si 7 Hindi (Higher).‏ 
Paul, Dhiresh Kumar 7 ۰ 7 ৪৪ Fr P Passed completely.‏ 
Paul, Subodh Chandra 7 ۲ P Hindi (Higher).‏ 
Pramanick, Sunity on es P P 7 Hindi (Higher).‏ 
Passed completely.‏ ۲ و ve‏ و Roy, Kanakendra Mohan .. wt‏ 
koy, Parimal Chandra রঃ দু 2 es Pp Accounts IT.‏ 
Rudra, Bani Bhusan : ٠ ۰ P ۲ Passed completely.‏ 
Sarkar, Sukumar 7+ - 7٦ ۳ Pp Ditto.‏ 
Satker, Ganga Dhar 7 -7 P 7 7 র্‌ Accounts II, Hindi (Higher‏ 
and Lower).‏ 
gon' Gupta, Arunjit 7 7 P * Accounts II,‏ 
Sen Gupta, Jyotirmay P : Accounta II, Hindi (Higher).‏ 
Sen Gupta, Tulsidas eS 7 7 - ۲ ۲ Passed completely. |‏ 
Officers of the Forest Department.‏ 
Bengals Still liable in or com-‏ لفصنظ Name, Land | Forest বসাক‏ 
ee ne ee pletely passed.‏ ہہ ہیس er‏ ہہ ہا ماش Laws. | Law. SE od‏ 
Higher. | Lower. | Higher. | Lower.‏ 
Rai Chaudhuri, § Kshirode p* at vs & ea 7 Hindi (Higher),‏ 
Chandra.‏ 
benyal, Sailondra Saran ٤ P 7 es Land Laws, Accounts‏ 
I and II, limdi‏ 
(Higher).‏ 
‘ngh, Bhanu Pratap We we P es -۰ Pp Land Laws, Accounte‏ 
II, Bengah (Higher).‏ . 
Bur, Chandra Mohan -۰ 7 P P 7 রী Accounts I and II.‏ 


ی۔ 


Still liable in or completely 
paased. 


Banerjee, Sachindra Mohan .. Accounts ۰. 


Officer of the Gommerce and Industries Department. 


Accounte. Hindi. Still liable in or completely 
Name. passod. 
1. 11, Higher. Lower, 
আহতের আতা পপ সা 
Banerjeo, Moni 7 7 és P 7 Passed completely. 


+ পা বাটা পাপ পক sweat me লই toes peepee স্তনটা وب‎ 


2972 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr ] 


০০০০ ০০৯০০ ০ 


Officer of the Directorate of 01110110188. 


Hindi. 
Name. Still liable in or completely 


passed, 


Higher, | Lower. 


EEE ES | SEE SIR EES | CE (১ ০ A ee তাপ “৯ 


Dutta, Probodh Ranjan is 


Special Paper, Nepali. 


Officers of the Directorate of Electricity. 


Hindi. Still liable in or complotely 


passed. 
Name. 
Chakrabarty, Rabindra Nath Accounts I, Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 
Roy, Mrinal Kanti oe Paased completely. 


Still liable in or completely 
paasod. 


১১১১১ A A ET EET | SRA ০১১ 


Das Gupta, Anil Chandra 2 
Mukherjec, Subhendu ٤ 


Passed completely. 


Officer of the West Bengal Stationery Office. 


Accounts. Hindi. 
Name. Still liable in or completely 
passed. 


Banerjee, Bimal Bihari és Accounts II, Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 
Accounts. Hindi. 
Name. Law Law Still liable in or 
I it Higher. Lower. pomplately parse 
Ghosh, Hiranmay 7 7 ts ৪ P Accounts 11, Hindi 
(tligher). 
€ 
Roy, Basanta Kumar .. 7 xs Law I and ITI. 


Officers of the Directorate of Factories. 


Accounts, Hindi. 
Name, Law Law Stil liable un or 
I II Lower, | completely passed. 
Chaudhuri, Sailendra 7 7 ন্‌ Accounts I. 
Nath. 
Chaudhuri, Saro) Pp ae aye Aocounts II. 
Govinda. 
Ghosh, Kamal Krishna - Passed completely: 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 29177 


SRE ee CEE DE USAID جنچ‎ CEE cloth ee elem 


Officers of the Directorate of Education. 


Accounts. Hindi. 
Name. چ0‎ Still lable in or completely 
passed, 
I II Higher, Lower. 
Bakshi, Sasthi Das re = 7 ۲ Passed completely. 
Banerjoo, Santimoy a 7 P hs Ki Hindi (Higher and Lower). 
Chakravarti, Arun Prokash .. is রঃ re P , Hindi (Higher). 
Chakravorty, Horamba Kumar P = es 7 Accounts II, Hindi (Ifigher and 
Lower). 
Chatterjee, Satya Ranjan ey aye ae P 7 Passed completely. 
Chatterji, Rarrosh Chandra... 7 P 7 a Ditto. 
Chowdhury, Prafulla Ranjan .. aa ۰ 7 রি P Hindi (Higher). 
Ghosh, Gopal Chandra - টা ee ve آ7‎ Accounte IT, Hindi (Higher). 
Koyal, Jyotish Chandra ۲ 7 রি ۲ Hindi (Higher). 
Majumdar, Kalipada os ৪ ak ۲ 7 Passed completely. 
Modak, Ashalata 7 Pp 7 P Accounts IT, Hindi (Higher). 
Mukerjee, Sisirkana ও me os P P Passed completely. 
Roy, Ramesh Chandra 7 P ۲ oe we Hindi (Higher and Lower). 
Saha, Anil Kumar .. 7 P is ٠ و‎ Accounts II, Hindi (Higher and 
Lower). 
Sen, Suresh Chandra 7 ۰ P রর Hindi (Higher and Lowor). 
Sen Gupta, Mohit Kumar 7 ৬৬ oe P ۲ Passed completely. 
Officers of the Directorate of Commercial Taxes. 
Accounts, Hindi. 
Name, Aocoun | Audit- Mar- Still liable m or 
tancy, | ing. wari, | completely passed, 
I II 
Bagchi, Bireswar Prasad P ‘ ‘a ٤ Law ہا‎ Auditing, 
Accounts I and 
11, Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 
Marwari. 
Basu, Nirmalendu ۲ es Passed completely. 
Bera, Sudhir Chandra ux Law I, Accoun- 
tancy, Auditing, 
Accounts J and 21, 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 
Marwari. 
Chakravarty, Samir ‘ ۲ ws Accountancy, Audi- 
Mohan. ting, Accounts 
ہلا‎ Hindi (Highor 
and Lower), 
Marwari. 
Chakravorti, Kali Mohan ‘ ; re Accountancy, Audi- 
ting, Accounts 
I and II, Marwar). 
j ; 7 Law I and II, 
Chatterjey, A. R. 1 ٠ سے اس‎ 
Auditing, Ao- 
counts I and II, 
Hindi (Higher), 
Marwari. 
/ j ৪৪ P 2 ve Law iL. Acooun- 
Chatterjeo, Satya Prasad اس ات‎ 
Accounts II, 
Hind: = (Iligher), 
Marwari. 
Bh h e P ee ae Law ঘা Accoun- 
Daas, Sudhansu, Bhushan eles ঃ Auditing, 
Accounta II, Hindi 


(Highor and Lo- 
wor), Marwari. 


2974 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, ۵6 


{Pari I 


Law, 
Namo. 
I 

Das Sarma, Narayan... Pp 
Dey, Paritosh 7 ۲ 
Gangopadhyay, Chira P 

Ranjan. 
Ganguli, Benoy Ranjan 
Ghose, Rathindra Pp 

Chandra, 
Ghose, Shome Nath 8 P 
Ghosh, Birnalendu ৫ 
Ghosh, এ yotirmoy es ay 
Mandal, Gour (handra ,. 
Paul, Chandrakanta ee ee 


Paul, Satya Kanjan sw. ۲ 


1১09, Surendra Nath 


Officers of the 


Bengal 
Agricul- 
Name. tural 
Income 
Tax Act 


Officers of the Directorate of Commercial Taxes—concid. 


II 


and Rules. 


Chakravarty, Kamaniya ۲ 
Kumar, 


Das, Ranade Ranjan 7 


Ray, Manomohan 


Som, Naresh Chandra 


১ ne sete er eRe A Fer eee ee SRT f) eos Ra ESS | Ee پإٴ سوہو٘ٗارکےےمدہچویے‎ a | ER ee Se 


of Agricultural income-tax. 


Still hablo in 
or completely 
passed, 


Accountancy, 
Auditing, 
Marwari, 


Accounts I, Hindi 
(Fligher and .صا‎ 
wer), Marwari. 


Hindi (Higher and 
Lower), Marwari. 


Law I, Accoun- 
tancy, Auditing, 
Accounta 11 


Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 
Marwari. 


Law II, Accoun- 
tancy, Auditing, 
Accounts II, Hindi 
(Higher), Marwari. 


Accountanry, 
Auditing, Ao- 
counts I and II, 
Hindi (Higher), 
Marwari. 


Passed completely. 


Law I and II, 
Accountancy, 
Auditing, Ao- 
counts and 1 
Hindi (Higher), 
Marwari. 


Law ہا‎ Accoun- 
tancy, Auditing, 
Accounts 


Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 
Marwari. 

Accounts IT. 

Accountancy, 
Accounts I and IT, 
Hindi ('Higher 
and Lowor), 
Marwari. 


Law II, Accoun.- 
tancy, Auditing, 


Accounts II, 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 
Marwari. 


Still liable in 
or completoly 


passed, 


Goneral Accounts 
and Audit, 
Accounts I and 
11, Hindi (Higher 
and Lower), 


Genera) Accounts 


and Audit, 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 


Passed completely. 


General Accounts 
and Audit, 
Hindi (Jligher). 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2976 


লস পা SA সি সত 


Officers of the Directorate of Co-operation. 


Accounts. Hindi. Still liable in or 


completely passed. 


Co-operation. 


II Higher, Lower. 


Sen Gupta, Jnanankur .. Passed completely. 


Thakur, Manindra Nath Ditto. 


Sub-Registrars. 


Hindi. Still liable in 


Name. or completely 
passed. 


Higher. Lower. 


Banarji, Bimalananda ae Accounts I and II, 
Hindi (Higher 
and Lower). 


Banarji, Shishir Mohan... P ৮৬ Accounts I. 


Chanda, Nripendra Chandra i " FP Accounte ITI, Hindi 


(Higher). 


Chatterjee, Kartic Chandra ay 7 Law I, Accounts I 

۲ and ,1ا‎ Hindi 
(Higher and 
Lower). 


sie P Law I, Procedure, 
Accounte I and 
II, Hindi 
(Higher). 


Das Gupta, Mridul Kumar 


Ghoshal, Amar Nath P 7 Passed completely. 


Law IT, Procedure, 


Gupta, Parimal Chandra .. 
Accounta I a ar 


(Higher and 


Lower). 
Nath, Harendra Kumar .. ۲ ۲ Passed completely. 
Officers of the Directorate of Veterinary Services. 
ھ0٤00‎ Hindi. 
Name. 9621 liable m or completely 
passed. 
I 11 Higher. Lower. 
Banerji, Tara Pada 7 7 ٠ Pp ve Accounta I and ۰. 
Basu, Prabhu Tosh 7 7 P P P Passed completely. 
Bose, Probodh Kumar 7 ۳ “i P Pp Accounts ۰ 
Bose, Promode Kumar 7 + P ۲ Pp Accounts I. 
Choudhury, Bimalendu as 7 و‎ 3 <n Accounts IT. 
Daa, Debendra Nath ٠ 7 ۰ھ‎ P ৮ Passed completely. 
Marwaha, Dev Raj 7 Pp 7 os se Accounts I, Bengali (Higher 
۲ and Lower). 
Mitra, Manindra Chandra ٠ oe 7 P P Accounta I. 


Sen Gupta, Manoranjan - P as 3 ۲ Passed completely. 


2976 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr I 


Officers of the Directorate of Fire Services. 


Departmental 
Acts and 
Name. Rules and Technical 
Administrative Paper, 
Procedure. 
Chatterjee, Subhas Chandra P 
Ghose, Krishna Chandra .. P 
Roy, Prabhateswar = 7 P 


Accounts. 
Still liable in 
or completely 
d. 


এজ DSI ইক 1 তত: বে উর [| 03555 PG RSD AE RTC 30085 | এত SER NY ইক ১0 |) CAR tae I INN RN سے‎ RS 


3 < 7 Technical Paper, 


Accounts I and 
II. 


Passed completely. 


Accounts I, 


Officer of the State Statistical Bureau. 


Official 


Statistics and 
Name. eo Statistical 
Laws | . Surveys. 
and Rules. 


Accounts. 


Still liable in 
or completely 
passed. 


جحجچممش شض ید بد ۹ ہیں es Yl ES | EE‏ 


Roy, Sailendra Kumar * 


Passed completel; 


Officer employed in the Department of Mines. 
নর: OL 7 জহর এনে তেরা SIE তর ররর কানা ওল রনির 
Hindi 


Name. 


Higher. 


Prakash, Chandra 


Still liable in or completely passed. 


Lower. 


P Hindi (Higher). 


§Provisionally in respect of Law, subject to submitting records of cases under rule 8 of Part I, Chapter II-B of the Servicet 


(Training and Examination) Rules, West Bengal. 


tProvisionally in respect of Accounts, subject to submitting treasury training certificates under rule 9 of Part I, Chapter 1 


of the Services (Training and Examination) Rules, West Bengal. 


BOARD OF REVENUE, WEST BENGAL 


“C” Group—Survey and Settlement Branch 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 10070S.&8./611/56.—17th July 1956.— 
The Board is pleased to allow 81011 Shibendra 
Bhusan Das Gupta, Sub-Deputy Collector and 
Assistant Settlement Officer, Cooch Behar, earned 
leave on average pay for thirteen days from the 
4th June 1956 to the 16th June 1956 under rule 
167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Board, 
R. BANERJEE, Secy. 


۶۰ N. GHOSH, 
Assistant Secretary. 


Office of the Accountant-General, West Bengal 


CORRIGENDUM 


Dated Calcutta, the 17th July 1956 


For the words ‘‘Assistant Director of Inspection 
(Income-tax), Collection Branch, Pvonamalle 
High Road, Madras” occurring in this office 
notification No. TM /647, dated 27th February 0 
(published on page 814 of Part I of the Calcutta 

azette, dated 8th March 1956), please read 
‘‘Assistant Director of Inspection (facome-tas), 
کر‎ Branch, Poonamalle igh Road, 
Madras’’. 


L. P. KHANNA, Dy. Accountant-General. 


Part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2977 


یؤفجحيیللحجححج === LL‏ 7ص*صًص“ض“2“*ٌ۱تّے ,×ز<ت عمع”_ںنتى٣ىںن‪‏ ٛ نگ ٣‏ سس .-م:0!ىںسًسسسگسگسپو‌۔-۔‌--۔۔+--+متدععححچچگگپچتسشتجڑجہ_۔_جہ+-ہس_ہڑپہەمیبےے 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTICE 


Appellate Side 


Leave. 


Hooghly.—No. 4682A.—26th July 1956.—Shri 
Ranendra Nath Datta, Subordinate Judge and 
Assistant Sessions Judge of Hooghly, is allowed 
earned leave under rule 17109) of the West 
‘Bengal Service Rules, Part I, for four days from 
the 4th to the 7th July 1956. 


24-Parganas.— No. 4690A.—26th July 1956.— 
Shri Santosh Kumar Ghosh, Subordinate Judge 
and Assistant Sessions Judge of 24-Parganas, 18 
allowed earned leave under rule 171(a) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I, for nine days from 
the 20th to the 28th July 1956. 


K. C. SEN, Registrar. 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF 
DIVISIONS 


Burdwan J)ivision—Chinsura 


No, 879L.8.-G.—18th July 1956.—It is hereby 
notified for general information that, under 
rule 20(b) of the Rules for the Management of 
Charitable Hospitals and Dispensaries in West 
Bengal, the following gentlemen have been 
appointed to be members of the Committee for the 
management of the charitable dispensary ut 
Neamatpur in the district of Burdwan: — 


(1) Dr. Amulya Ratan Acharjya. 

3} Shri Ram Krishna Roy. 
Shri Bimala Prosad Roy. 
Shri Nandalal Goenka. 

Shri Dakshineswar Roy. 


5 
3 Shri Balaram Chakravarty. 


3 
4 
’ Shri Sudhakar Acharjya. 
5 Shri Haridas Mukherjee. 


Dr. Kartic Chandra Chandra, M.B., M.O., 
Neamatpur Charitable Dispensary. 


No. 2114J.G.—24th July 1956.—Shri Haripada 
Biswas, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy 
Collector, on probation, Howrah, is posted to the 
Uluberia subdivision of the same district for 
employment as Circle Officer, Amta. 

2. The posting is made in the interest of public 
service. 

3. This cancels the order contained in this 
office notification No. 2067J.G., dated 14th July 
1956, posting Shri Amulya Ratan Mukherjee, Sub- 
Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deput ollector, 
Howrah, for employment as Circle Officer, Amta. 


B. SARKAR, Commissioner. 


Presidency Division—Calcutts 
No. 1869M.—25th July 1956.—It is hereby 
notified under section 60 of the Bengal Municipal 
Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV of 1932), that Shri 
Biswaranjan Roy, M.B., has een duly elected 
Chairman of the Santipur Municipality in the 
district of Nadia vice Shri Haridas Dey resigned. 


No. 1469R.G.—25th July 1956.—Shri Chanchal 
Kumar Dey, Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation), 
Alipore, 24-Parganas, 18 transferred to the Basir- 
hat subdivision of that district temporarily. 


K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF NADIA. 


DRAFT CANCELLATION NOTIFICATIONS. 


The 7th July 1956. 


Whereas by notification published at page 4807, 
Part I of the Oalcutta Gazette, dated the lst December 
1955, I required all persons interested in the waste 
lands specified therein to show cause within the 
prescribed time, why the waste lands should not be 
requisitioned ; 

And whereas after considering all such petitions 
and after making further enquiry, I am satisfied that 
the waste lands shown below, mentioned in the afore- 
said notification, should not be requisitioned ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
on me under sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Waste 
Lands (Requisitioning and Utilisation) Act, 1952, 
I hereby cancel partly the aforesaid notification in 
ao far as it relates to entire cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 2/1208, 4, 7, 28, 32, 33, 34, 66, 88, 95, 100, 106, 
108, 141, 148, 153, 164, 165, 170, 205/1214, 206, 207, 
208, 209, 210, 233, 236, 239, 241, 242, 243, 244, 249, 
250, 261, 263, 268, 269, 273, 274, 275, 276, 278, 279, 
280, 281, 285, 286, 287, 297, 298, 299, 300, 304, 310, 
312, 317, 318, 319, 321, 322, 323, 345, 371, 372, 373, 
374, 381, 393, 396, 397, 433, 469, 472, 473, 523, 550, 
551, 582, 583, 585, 586, 587, 591, 593, 594, 595, 621 
647, 658, 659, 660, 672, 673, 696, 709, 712, 713, 725’ 
738, 739, 740, 741, 742, 778, 792, 936, 988, 989, 992 
996, 997, 1000, 1050, 1088, 1089, 1094, 1095, 1096, 
1097, 1105, 1166, 1165/1226, 1165/1227, 1176, 1177, 
1178, 1179, 1180, 1195, 1404, 1410, 1411, 1425, 1426, 
1451, 1458, 1459, 1468, 1469, 1476, 1479, 1498, 1616, 
1517, 1520, 1521, 1623, 1628, 1529, 1530, 1535, 1537 
1644, 1551, 1554, 1556, 1571, 1572, 1685, 1587, 1590, 
1691, 1651, 1652, 1653, 1654, 1661, 1662, 1667, 1730, 
1747, 1748, 1750, 1758, 1761, 1803, 1804, 1805, 1806, 
1810, 1811, 1820, 1835, 1836, 1838, 1841, 1844, 1850, 
1875, 1879, 1880 to 1885, 1899, 1902, 1952, 1956, 
1957, 1958, 1959, 1961, 1962, 1965, 1966, 1968, 1970, 
1972, 1975, 1977, 1981 to 1984, 1986 to 1988, 1993, 
1995, 1996, 1997: 1999, 2000, 2014 to 2017, 2019 to 
2023, 2025, 2026, 2030, 2033, 2037 to 2040. 2042, 2044 
to 2047, 2050 to 2057, 2061, 2068, 2064. 2066, 2068, 
2071, 2072, 2075, 2077, 2078, 2079, 2084, 2085 
to 2089, 2091 to 2093, 2095, 2102, 2111/5419, 2114, 
2142, 2143, 2152, 2160, 2171, 2172, 2179, 2181, 2182, 
2184, 2211, 2225, 2226, 2232, 2256, 2581, 2594, 2596, 
2597, 2598, 2601, 2622, 2625, 2666, 2675, 2686, 2695, 
2780, 2789, 2802, 2803, 2871, 2872, 2874, 2875, 2882, 
2886, 2889, 2958, 3101, 3530, 3533 to 3335, 3538, 
3882, 3883, 3885, 3906, 4217 to 4219, 4233, 4263, 
4305, 4314, 4499, 4621, 4622, 4662 to 4665, 4670 to 
4679, 4681 to 4685, 4691, 4693, to 4698, 4702 to 4705, 
4707, 4711, 4712, 4736, 4737 to 4740, 4742, 4748, 
4745, 4748 to 4750, 4753, 4754, 4756, 4657, 4759, 4765, 
4767, 4768, 4772 to 4774, 4776, 4777, 4779, 4781, 4782, 
4784 to 4788, 4790 to 4795, 4798, 4797, 4800 to 4802, 
4804 to 4807, 4814, 4819 to 4821, 4824, 4826, 4828, 4829, 
4833, 4835, 4838, 4839, 4841, 4842, 4844, 4845, 4854, 
4855, 4864, 4870, 4871, 4872, 4873, 4874, 4875, 4876, 
4877, 4892, 4893, 4989, 4997, 4998, 5000, 5001, 5008, 
5009, 6916, 5020, 5021, 5149, 5151 and part of cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 8, 25, 42, 48/121, 139, 140, 150 to 162, 
155, 156, 231, 245, 264, 262, 283, 301 to 303, 325, 338, 
339, 380, 400, 404, 488 to 491, 569, 578, 636, 645, 646, 
663, 754, 756, 764, 773, 777, 873, 940, 1027, 1028, 
1030, 1102, 1124, 1126, 1171, 1198, 1303, 1454, 1455, 
1463, 1518, 1524, 1534, 1543, 1550, 1557, 1568, 1575, 
1577, 1584, 1693, 1611, 1618, 1645, 1649, 1660, 1669, 
1711, 1823, 1839, 1857, 1888, 1890, 1897, 2011, 2112, 
2122, 2183, 2604, 2619, 2620, 2624, 2687, 2778, 2819, 
3540, 4215, 4216, 4288, 4336, 4454, 4455, 4468, 4472, 
4500, 4637, 4686, 4700, 4725, 4732, 4733, 4999, 4741, 
4866, 5015, 5026 and 5150 of mauza Goash, jurisdiction 
list No. 39, Police Station Karimpur, district Nadia, 
measuring 285'72 acres. 


M. 0. MUKHBRJI, Collector, 


2978 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Pant I 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR, NADIA 


Draft Cancellation Notification 


Krishnagar, the 24th July 1956. 


Whereas by a notification, Krishnagar, dated 
the 23rd February 1956, published at page 898, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 15th 
March 1956, I required all persons interested in 
the waste lands specified therein to show cause 
within the prescribed time, why the waste lands 
should not be requisitioned ; 


And whereas, after considering all such peti- 
tions and after making further enquiry, |] am 
satisfied that the waste lands mentioned in the 
atoresaid notification should not be requisitioned ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred on me under sub-section (3) of section 4 of 
the Waste Lands (Requisitioning and Utilisation) 
Act, 1952, I hereby cancel entirely the aforesaid 
notification relating to lands measuring, more or 
less, 19.88 acres of mauza Karamdia, jurisdiction 
od No. 152, police-station Karimpur, district 

adia. 


M. C. MUKHERJI, Collector. 


Presidency Division—Jalpaiguri 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, 
COOCH BEHAR 


ORDER 
Dated, Cooch Behar, the 20th July 1956 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
20 of the West Bengal Security Act, 1950, and 
delegated to me under (Government order 
No, 2170P/380-9/50, dated 11th Avpril 1950, of 
the Home (Political) Department of West Bengal 
under section 39 of the said Act,,J do hereby 
order that the Hat at Ratanpur in Mathabhanga 
subdivision will continue to remain closed as 


ordered on 20th April 1956. 


The aforesaid order shall remain in force for 
three months with effect from 20th July 1956 and 
any person contravening the said order shall be 
punishable according to the provisions of law. 


Given under my hand and seal of the Court, 
this 20th day of July 1956. 


A. K. DUTT, District Magistrate. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. 31768C.T. /2E /54/56-57.—12th July 1956. 
—Shri & Bhattacharyya, 2nd Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District Hooghly, is, with effect from 
27th June 1966 and in addition to his own duties, 
appointed to hold the charge of the 3rd Additional 
Income-tax Officer of the same district during the 
absence on leave of Shri A. K. Sen Gupta. 


2. On return from leave, Shri A. K. Sen Gupta, 
Income-tax Officer, will be re-posted as 3rd Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, District Hooghly 
relieving Shri 9. Bhattacharyya, 2nd Additiona 
Income-tax Officer, of this additional charge. 


No. 931766C.T. /2E/33/AC /55-56.—12th July 
1956.—In continuation of this office order 
No. 205860.T. /2E/33/AC/55-56, dated 9th June 
1966, Shri K. B. L. Nigam, Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Howrah, ‘is allowed, under the Revised 
Leave Rules, 1933, an extension of earned lenve 
for two days with effect from 10) June 1956 to 
llth June 1956, 


It is certified that the officer was likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


It is further certified that the officer would have 
continued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 


Officer, Class II, but for his proceeding on above 
extension earned leave. 


No. _ E/83786C.T./2E/1/56-57.—18th July 
বু) exercise of the powers conferred under 
section 5(5) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, 
I hereby direct that— 
Shri ٥. C. Biswas, Class II Income-tax Officer, 
Shri A. R. Das Gupta, 01888 II Income-tax 


cer, 
Shri S. P. Chaliha, Class II Income-tax 
7800] 
Shri M. Ramaswami, Class II Income-tax 
cer, 
Shri K. B. Narasinham, Class II Income-tax 
Officer, 


shall perform all the functions of an Income-tax 
Officer under the said Act in respect of such 
persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or 
classes of income or in respect of such areas as may 
be allocated to them from time to time. 


০০ 


V. V. SUBRAMANINAN, Commissioner. 


Part 1] 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 


PUBLIC NOTICE UNDER 688-0 
SECTION 17 OF THE WEST BENGAL EVACUEE 


REVENUE 


PROPERTY ACT, 1951 


(1) No. 


NOTICES. 


2961]00E.P.A, dated 8th June 1955. 


(2) No. 26102E.P.A, dated 8th Juno 1955. 


(3) No. 26104E.P.A, dated 8th Juno 1955. 
(4) No. 26106E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
(5) No. 26108E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
(6) No. 26110E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
(7) No. 26112E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
(8) No. 26114E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
(9) No. 26116E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
(10) No. 26118E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. . 
(11) No. 


(12) No. 


(13) No. 
(14) No. 
(15) No. 
(16) No. 
(17) No. 
(18) No. 
(19) No. 
(20) No. 
(21) No. 
(22) No. 
(23) No. 
(24) No. 
(25) No. 
(26) No. 
(27) No. 
(28) No. 
29) No. 
(30) No. 
(31) No. 
(32) No. 
(33) No. 
(34) No. 
(35) No. 
96) No. 
37) No. 
38) No. 
(39) No. 
(40) No. 
(41) No. 


(42) No. 
(43) No. 
(44) No. 
(45) No. 


(6) No, 


26120E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


26122E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26124E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26126E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26128E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
96130E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26132E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
96134E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26136E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26138E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26140E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
96142E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26144E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
96146E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26148E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26150E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26152E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26154E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26156E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26158E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26160K.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26162E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26164E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26166E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26168E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26170E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955, 
26172E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26174E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26176E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26178E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26180K.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


26182E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26184E.P.A., datod 8th June 19565. 
26186E.P.A., dated Sth June 19565. 


26188E.P.A., dated Sth June 19665. 
26190E.P.A., datod Sth June 1956, 


(47) No. 
(48) No. 
(49) No. 
(50) No. 
(51) No. 


(52) No. 
(53) No. 
(54) No. 
(55) No. 
(56) No. 
(57) No. 
(58) No, 
(59) No. 
(60) No. 
(61) No. 
(62) No. 
(63) No. 
(64) No. 
(65) No. 
(66) No. 


(67) No. 
(68) No. 
(69) No. 
(70) No. 
(71) No. 
(72) No. 
(73) No. 
(74) No. 
(76) No. 
(76) No. 
(77) No. 
(78) No. 
(79) No. 
(80) No. 
(81) No. 


(82) No. 


(83) No. 
(84) No. 
(85) No. 
(86) No. 
(87) No. 
(88) No. 
(88) No. 
(90) No. 
(91) No. 
(92) No. 


(93) No. 
(94) No. 
(95) No. 
(96) No. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 


26192E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 
26194E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26196E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
26198E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
29534E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20536E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29538E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565, 
20540E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29542E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29544E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20546E.P.A., dated 26th June 19565, 


29548E.P.A., dated 25th June 1965. 


29550K.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
29552E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 
29554E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20566E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
29558E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29560E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
29562E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29564E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29566E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29568E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29570E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29672E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29574E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20576E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29578E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29580E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 


29582E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956, 


29684E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


29586E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29588E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29750E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20752E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29754E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29756E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 
29758E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29760E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
29762E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20764E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29766E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29768E.P.A., dated 25th Juno 1955. 
20770E.P.A., dated 25th Junc 1955. 
29772E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29774E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29776E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29778E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565, 
29780E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


20782K.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29784E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


2979 


2880 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


০০০০-১৯-৯৯ স্লিম 


(97) No. 29786E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


(98) No. 
(99) No. 


(100) No. 
(101) No. 
(102) No. 
(103) No. 
(104) No. 
(105) No. 
(106) No. 
(107) No. 
(108) No. 
(109) No. 
(110) No. 


(111) No 


(112) No. 


(113) No 
(114) No 
(115) No 


(116) No. 
(117) No. 
(118) No. 


(120) No. 
(121) No. 
(122) No. 
(123) No. 
(124) No. 
(125) No. 


* (126) No 


(127) No. 
(128) No. 
(129) No. 
(130) No. 


(132) No 


(134) No 


(136) No. 
(197) No. 
(138) No. 


(140) No. 
(141) No. 


(142) No. 
(143) No. 


(144) No. 


20788E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29790E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29800E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29802E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 
29804E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29808E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


. 29814E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29838E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29840E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29500E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29502E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29504E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20506E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


(145) No. 29508E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


(146) No 


. 20510E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29792Kh.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29794E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29706E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29798E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


29806E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29810E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29812E.P.A., dated 25th June 1965. 


29816E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
. 20818K.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
. 29820E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 
. 29822E.P.A, dated 25th June 19655. 
29824E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29826E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29828E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
(119) No. 29830E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29832E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29834E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29836E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29842K.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 
. 29844E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29846E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29848E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29850E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29852E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
(131) No. 29854E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
. 20856E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 
(133) No. 29858E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
. 29486E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
(196) No. 29488E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29490E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29492E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29494E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
(139) No. 20496E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
29498E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


(147) No. 
(148) No. 
(149) No. 
(150) No. 
(151) No. 
(152) No. 
(153) No. 
(154) No. 
(155) No. 
(156) No. 
(157) No. 
(158) No. 
(159) No. 
(160) No. 
(161) No. 
(162) No. 


(163) No 


(164) No. 
(165) No. 
(166) No. 
(167) No. 
(188) No. 
(169) No. 
(170) No. 
(171) No. 
(172) No. 
(173) No. 
(174) No. 
(175) No. 
(176) No. 
(177) No. 
(178) No. 
(179) No. 
(180) No. 
(181) No. 
(182) No. 
(183) No. 
(184) No. 
(185) No. 
(186) No. 
(187) No. 
(188) No. 
(189) No. 
(190) No. 
(191) No. 


(192) No. 
(193) No. 
(194) No. 
(195) No. 
(196) No. 


29512E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29514E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29516E.P.A., dated 25th June 1985. 
29518E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 
29520E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29522E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29524E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29526E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29528E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29530K.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29532E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29590E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29592E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29594E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29596E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956, 
29598E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29600E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
29602E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29604E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29606E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
2608E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
Z9610E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29612E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29614E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29616E.P.A., dated 25th Juno 1955. 
29618E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 
29620E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 
29622E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29624E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29626E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29628E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29630E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 
29632E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29634E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29636E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
29638E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29640E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29642E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29644E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29646E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29648E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29650E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29652E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29654E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29656E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


20658E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29660E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
29662E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 
290664E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29666E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


[Parr I 


Part I] 


rrr 


(197) No. 
(198) No. 
(199) No. 
(200) No. 
(201) No. 
(202) No. 
(203) No. 
(204) No. 
(205) No. 
(206) No. 
(207) No. 
(208) No. 
(209) No. 
(210) No. 
(211) No. 
(212) No. 
(213) No. 
(214) No. 
(215) No. 
(216) No. 
(217) No. 
(218) No. 
(219) No. 
(220) No. 


(221) No. 


(222) No. 
(223) No. 
(224) No. 
(225) No. 


(226) No. 
(227) No. 
(228) No. 


(229) No. 
(230) No. 
(231) No. 
(232) No. 
(233) No. 
(234) No. 
(235) No. 
(236) No. 
(237) No. 
(238) No. 
(239) No. 
(240) No. 


(241) No. 
(242) No. 


(243) No. 
(244) No. 
(245) No. 
(246) No. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2981 


ris ہے‎ সস 


20668E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29670E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29672E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20674E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29676E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
29678E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29680E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29682E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29684E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20686E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20688E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
29690E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29692K.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29604E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29696E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29608E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29700E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29702E.P.A., dated 25th June 5۰ 
29704K.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29706E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29708E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29710E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29712E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
29714E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20716E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
20718E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29720E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29722E.P.A., dated 25th Jung 1955. 
29724E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29726E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29728E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29730E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


29732E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29734E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29736E.P.A., duted 25th June 1955. 
29738E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29740H.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29742E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29744E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
29746K.P.A., dated 25th June 1986. 
29748E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
30180E.P.A. dated 25th June 1955. 
30178E.P.A., dated 27th June 1966. 
30176E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


30174E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955, 
30172E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


30170E.P.A., dated 27th June ۰ 
30168E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


30166E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


30164E.P.A., dated 27th June 1945. 
(247) No, 30162H.P.A., dated 27th June 19565, 


(248) No. 30160E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 
(249) No. 30158H.P.A., datel 27th June 1955. 
(250) No. 30156E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 
(251) No. 30154E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 
(252) No. 30152E.P.A., dated 27th June 1965. 
(253) No. 30726E.P.A., dated Ist July 1965. 
(254) No. 30728E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955, 
(255) No. 30730E.P.A., dated Ist July 1905. 
(256) Na. 30732E.P.A., dated lat July 1955. 
(257) No. 30734E.P.A., dated lst July 1955. 
(268) No. 30736E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 
(259) No. 30738E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955, 
(260) No. 30740E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 
(261) No. 30742E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 
(262) No. 30744E.P.A., dated lst July 1955. 
(263) No. 30746E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 
(264) No. 30748E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 
(265) No. 30750E.P.A., dated Ist July 1965. 
(266) No. 30756E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 
(267) No. 30758E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


Notioe is heroby given that the evacuee properties 
described in the schedule below havo vested in the 
Evacuee Property Management Committee for West 
Bengal under sub-section (4) of section 17 of the Wost 
Bongal Evacuse Property Act, 1951 (West Bengal 
Act V of 1951). 


The Schedule. 


(1) No. 26100E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Damo- 
darkhali, J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 99, Plot No. 1349, 
1350, Owners—Sreemati Manu Bibi and othors. 


(2) No. 261028.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


"District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Digri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 137, Plot No. 342, Owners— 
Shri Hubil Mondal and others. 


(3) No. 26104E.P.A.. dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Digri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 130, Plot No. 369 Owners— 
Shri Subjan Mondal and others. 


(4) No. 26106E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Digri’ 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 85, Plot No. 350, Owners— 
Shri Panchu Mondal and others. 


(5) No. 26108E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No, 85, Plot No. 349, Owners— 
Shri Panchu Mondal and others. 


(6) No. 26110E.P.A., dated 8th June 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 1018০, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 42, Plot No. 1420, Owners— 
Shri Warer Ali and others. 


(7) No. 26112E.P.A., dated 8th June 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 141, Plot No, 747, Ownere— 
Shri Hurul Ali and others, 


2982 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr 1 


(8) No. 26114E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 1428, Owners— 
Shri Edris Mondal. 


(9) No. 26116E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 1429, Owners— 
Shri Edris Mondal. 


(10) No. 26118E.P.A., dated 8th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Chapra, Mauza Damo- 
darkhali, J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 65, Plot No. 938, 
Owners—Chhamed Mondal and others. 


(11) No. 26120E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 18, 16, 11, Plot 
No.536, 537, OQwners—Shri Mamtaj Mondal and others. 


(12) No. 26122E.P.A.. dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 18, 16, Plot No. 
538, Owners—Shri Ghar Ali and others. 


(13) No. 26124E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 59, Plot No. 826, 
Owners—thri Behari Mondal. 


(14) No. 26126E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 562, 
Ownerse—Shrimati Nacharan Bibi and others. 


(15) No. 26128E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No.21, Plot No. 496, 
Owners—Shri Nurjan and othors. 


(16) No. 26130E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 24, Plot No. 494, 
Owners—Shri Akshoy Mondal and others. 


(17) No, 26132E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 50, Plot No. 532, 
Owners—Shri Chapat. 


(18) No. 26134E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 29, Plot No. 842, 
Ownere—Shri Amin Mondal. 


(19) No. 26)36E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 534, 
Owner—Shri Ghar Ali. 


(20) No. 26138E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Pulice-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghat, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 503, 
Owners—Shri Naymat and others. 


(21) No. 26140E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
Diatrict Nadia, Potice-station Chapra, Mauza Digri, 


J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 137, Plot No, 767, Ownorg— 
Shri Habil Mondal and others, 


(22) No. 26142E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 399, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossain and others. 


(23) No. 26144E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 399, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossain and others. 


' (24) No. 26146E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 404, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and othors. 


(25) No. 26148K.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 405, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and others. 


(26) No. 26150E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 421, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and othors. 


(27) No. 26152E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri‘ 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 421, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and others. 


(28) No. 26154E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 170, Plot No. 793, Owners— 
Shri Ektara Mondal and others. 


(29) No. 26156E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 139, Plot No. 414, Owners— 
Shri Habil -Mondal and others. 


(30) No. 26158E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 20, Plot No. 417, Qwnors —Shri 
Amin Mondal and others. 


(31) No. 96160E.P.A., dated 8th Juno ۰ 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 20, Plot No. 419, Ownors— 
Shri Amin Mondal and others. 


(32) No. 26162E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 713, 
Owners—Shri Nacharau Bibi and others. 


(33) No. 26164E.P.A., dated 8th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 38, Plot No. 710, 
Owners—Shri Gharali Mondal and others. 


(34) No. 26166E.P.A., dated 8th June 1055. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 29, Plot No. 656, 
Owners—Shri Ebrahim and others. 


(35) No. 26168E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 27, Plot No, 861, 


Owners-——Shri Abadali and othors, 


Part 1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2983 


(36) No. 26170E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 29, Plot No. 656, 
Owners—Shri Abadali and othors. 


(37) No. 26172E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 651, 
OQwnors—Shri Necharan Bibi and others. 


(38) No. 26174E.P.A., dated 8th June 1956, 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 59, Plot No. 712, 
Qwners—Shri Behari Mondal. 


(39) No. 26176E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 34, Plot No. 646, 
Qwners—Shri Kangali Mondal and others. 


(40) No. 26178E.P.A., dated 8th June 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 624, 
Owners—Shri Necharan and othors. 


(41) No. 26180E.P.A., dated 8th June 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 96, Plot No. 343, 
Owners-—Shri Abadali and others. 


(42) No. 26182E.P.A., dated 8th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 840, 
Owners—Shri Nurjan and others. 


(43) No. 26184E.P.A., dated 8th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 419, 
Owners—Shri Nacharan and others. 


(44) No. 26186E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 825, 
Owners—Shri Fakir Chand and others. 


(45) No. 26188E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 13, Plot No. 409, 
Owner—Shri Imanali Mondal. 


(46) No. 26190E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 52, Plot No. 408, 
Owner—Shri Tachin Mondal. 


(47) No. 26192E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 43, Plot No. 563, 
OQwners—Shri Chayade Ali and others. 


(48) No. 26194E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 43, Plot No. 438, 
Owners—Shri Chayad Ali and others. 


(49) No. 26196E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 435, 
Owners—Shri Gahar Ali and othors. 


(50) No. 26198E.P.A., dated 8th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 447, 
Owners—Shri Hazari Mondal and others. 


(51) No, 29534E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 801, Area 
"28, Owner—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(52) No. 29536E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 132, Plot No. 1092, 
Area ۰16, Owner—Shri Astan Haque Mandal. 


(53) No. 29538E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mri- 
gipota, J.L. No. 86, Khatian No. 91, Plot No. 1146, Area 
-20, Owner—Shri Md. Oaresh Mandal. 


(54) No. 20540E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mri- 
gipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian No. 78, Plot No. 95, Area 
۰28, Owner—Shri Md. Oaresh Mandal. 


(55) No. 29542E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mri- 
gipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian No. 10, Plot No. 74, Area 
۰14 Owner—Shrimati Fateman Bibi. 


(86) No. 29543... dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathura- 
pur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 30, Plot No. 240, 
Area ۰56 Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(57) No, 29546E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 261, Plot No, 303, Area 
-25, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(68) No. 2?9548E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955, 


District Nadia Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur J. L. No. 72 Khatian No. 251 Plot No. 260, Area 
۰598, Owner—Shri Md. Akkavh Mandal. 


(59) No. 29550E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mau za Mathu 
rapur , J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 251, Plot No. 249, Area 
-84, Owner—Shri Md. Akkacvh Mandal. 


(60) No. 20552E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu. 
rapur, J. 14 No. 72, Khatian No. 251, Plot No. 1032, Are 
১80, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(61) No. 20654E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polioe-stution Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur, J, L. No. 72, Khatian No. 251, Plot No. 468, 
Area 590, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(62) No. 29556E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 


Distriot Nadia, Polico-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 488, Area 
1-48, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(63) No. 20558E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hizuli, 
J.L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot Nos. 226, 227, Area 
,19ء‎ ۰18, Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas, 


2982 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr I 


ے۔ وےٴ SET‏ وم FOES‏ 


(8) No. 26114E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 1428, Owners— 
Shri Edris Mondal. 


(9) No. 26116E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 1429, Owners— 
Shri Edris Mondal. 


(10) No. 26118E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Damo- 
darkhali, J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 65, Plot No. 938, 
Owners—Chhamed Mondal and others. 


(11) No. 26120E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 18, 16, 11, Plot 
No.536, 537, Owners—Shri Mamtaj Mondal and others. 


(12) No. 26122E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 18, 16, Plot No. 
638, Owners—Shri Ghar Ali and others. 


(13) No. 26124E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 59, Plot No. 826, 
Owners—Shri Behari Mondal. 


(14) No. 26126E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 562, 
Owners—Shrimati Nacharan Bibi and others. 


(15) No. 26128E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata. J. L. No. 7, Khatian No.21, Plot No. 495, 
Owners—Shri Nurjan and others. 


(16) No. 26130E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 24, Plot No. 494, 
Owners—Shri Akshoy Mondal and others. 


(17) No. 26132E.P.A,, dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 50, Plot No. 532, 
Owners—Shri Chaput. 


(18) No. 261345.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 29, Plot No. 842, 
Owners—Shri Amin Mondal. 


(19) No. 26130E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 534, 
Owner—Shri Ghar Ali. 


(20) No. 26138E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghat, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 503, 
Owners—Shri Naymat and ۰ 


(21) No. 26140E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
Diatrict Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Digri, 


J. مل‎ Nu. 87, Khatian No. 137, Plot No, 767 is 
Shri Habil Mondal and others, * 167, Qwners 


(22) No. 26142E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 399, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossain and others. 


(23) No. 26144E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 399, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossain and others. 


‘ (24) No. 26146E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. ہا‎ No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 404, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and others. 


(25) No. 26148E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 405, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and others. 


(26) No. 26150E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 421, Owners— 
Shri Didar Hossen and others. 


(27) No. 26152E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Chapra, Mauza Dogri‘ 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 421, Ownors— 
Shri Didar Hossen and others. 


(28) No. 26154E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 


J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 170, Plot No. 793, OQwners— 
Shri Ektara Mondal and others. 


(29) No. 261656E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 139, Plot No. 414, Owners— 
Shri Habil -Mondal and others. 


(30) No. 26158E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 
J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 20, Plot No. 417, Qwnors —Shri 
Amin Mondal and others. 


(31) No. 26160E.P.A., dated 8th June 1935. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Degri, 

J. L. No. 87, Khatian No. 20, Plot No. 419, Ownors— 
Shri Amin Mondal and others. 


(32) No. 26162E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 713, 
Owners—Shri Nacharau Bibi and others. 


(33) No. 26164E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Polico-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 710, 
Owners—Shri Gharali Mumilal and others. 


(34) No. 26166E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. 14 No. 7, Khatian No. 29, Plot No. 666, 
Owners-—Shri Ebrahim and others. 


(35) No. 26168E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1966 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mausa 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No, 27, Plot No, 861, 
Ownere—Shri Abadali and othors, 


Part I] 
4 


(36) No. 26170E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Maguza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 20, Plot No. 655, 
QOwners-—Shri Abadali and others. 


(37) No. 26172E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 651, 
Owners—Shri Necharan Bibi and others. 


(38) No. 26174E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 59, Plot No. 712, 
Owners—Shri Behari Mondal. 


(39) No. 26176E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 34, Plot No. 646, 
Owners—Shri Kangali Mondal and others. 


(40) No. 26178E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 624, 
Owners—Shri Necharan and othors. 


(41) No. 26180E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 96, Plot No. 343, 
Owners—Shri Abadali and others. 


(42) No. 26182E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 


Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 840, 
Owners—Shri Nurjan and others. 


(43) No. 26184E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kudaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 419, 
Owners—Shri Nacharan and others. 


(44) No. 26186E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 825, 
Owners—Shri Fakir Chand and others. 


(45) No. 26188E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 13, Plot No. 409, 
Owner—Shri Imanali Mondal. 


(46) No. 26190E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 52, Plot No. 408, 
Owner—Shri Tachin Mondal 7 


(47) No. 26192E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 43, Plot No. 563, 
Owners—Shri Chayade Ali and others. 


(48) No. 26194E.P.A., dated 8th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 43, Plot No. 438, 
Owners—Shri Chayad Ali and others. 


(49) No. 26196E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 68 
Kadaghata, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 435, 
Owners—Shri Gahar Ali and othors. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


2983 


(60) No. 26198E.P.A., dated 8th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, Mauza 
~ Kadaghata, J. 1০ No. 7, Khatian No. 64, Plot No. 447, 
Owners—Shri Hazari Mondal and others. 


(51) No. 29534E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 891, Area 
: 28, Ownor—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(52) No. 29536E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 132, Plot No. 1092, 
Area ‘16, Owner—Shri Astan Haque Mandal. 


(53) No. 29538E.P.A., dated 25th June 1958, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mri- 
gipota, J.L. No. 86, Khatian No. 91, Plot No. 1146, Area 
20, Owner—Shri Md. Oaresh Maydal. 


(54) No. 29540E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mri- 
gipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian No. 78, Plot No. 95, Area 
۰28, Owner—Shri Md. Oaresh Mandal. 


(55) No. 29542E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mri- 
gipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian No. 10, Plot No. 74, Area 
-14, Owner—Shrimati Fateman Bibi. 


(56) No. 20544E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathura- 
pur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 30, Plot No. 240, 
Area ১60, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(57) No. 29546E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu. 
rapur J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 251, Plot No. 303, Area 
-25, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(58) No. ?9548E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur J. L. No. 72 Khatian No. 251 Plot No, 260, Area 
-58, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(59) No. 29550E.P.A. , dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polioe-station Chapra, Mau za Mathu 
rapur , J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 251, Plot No. 249, Area 
84) Owner—NShri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(60) No. 20552E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 261, Plot No, 1032, Are 
-80, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(61) No. 29554E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 251, Plot No. 468, 
Area 20, Owner—Sbri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(62) No. 29556E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Mathu- 
rapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 488, Area 
1-48, Owner—Shri Md. Akkach Mandal. 


(63) No, 20558E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Polioe-station Kotwali, Mauza Hizuli, 
J.L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot Nos. 226, 227, Area 
10, -18, Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas. 


2984 


(64) No. 29560E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hizuli, 


J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 381, Area 0 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas. 


(65) No. 29562E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 186, Plot No. 79, 
Area ۰28-+-+ ۰992 .- ۰50 Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal 
and others. 


(66) No. 29564E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 186, Plot No. 80, 
Area ১44, Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal and others. 


(67) No. 29566E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Poljce-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 126, Plot No. 1030, 
Area ۰15, Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal and others. 


(68) No. 29568E.P.A., dated 25th June 55۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 126, Plot No. 175, 
Area * 10, Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal and others. 


(69) No. 29570E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 168, Plot No. 81, Area 
-40, Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal and others. 


(70) No. 29572E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 168, Plot No. 41, 
Area -22+-23=-45, Owners—Shri, Talebali Mondal 


and others. 


(71) No. 29574E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 168, Plot No. 40, 
Area ,39ء‎ Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal and others. 


(72) No. 29576E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 168, Plot No. 39, Area 
*90, Owners—Shri Talebali Mondal and others. 


(73) No. 29578E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 126, Plot No. 67, Area 
117, Owners—Shri Talebali Biswas and others. 


(74) No. 29580E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hizuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Knatian No. 21, Plot No. 224, Area -19, 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossen, Biswas. 


(75) No. 20582E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. 1. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 1169, Area -10, 
Owner—Shri Md. Takkel Mandal. 


(76) No. 20584K.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polico-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 129, Plot No. 1298, Area - 14, 
Owner—Shri Md. Sahadat Mandal. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 


[Parr 1 


(77) No. 29586E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 69, Plot No. 1071, Area ۰ 
Owner—Shri Md. Munsar Ali Mandal. 


(78) No. 29588E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia 
এ. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 40, Plot No. 218, Area -61, 
Owner—Snri Md. Khajer Ahammad Mandal. 


(79) No. 29750E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 192 Plot No. 1079 Area 3] 
Owner—Shri Md. Khajer Ahammad Mondal. 


(80) No, 29752E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 192, Plot No. 1095, Area 07, 
Owner—Shri Md. Khazer Ahammad Mondal. 


(81) No. 29754E.P.A., dated 25th June 195. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hizuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 8, Plot No. 713, Area 48, 
Owner—Shri Abdul Jalil Sarkar. 


(82) No. 29756E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Knatian No. 39, Plot No. 131, Area 
٠ء۰11,‎ Owner—Shri Elai Mandal. 


(83) No. 29758E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Polioe-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 181, Area 
-18-+ -41=-59, Owner—Shri Elai Mandal. 


(84) No. 29760E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Polive-station Kotwali, Mauza Bane. 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 9. 


Plot No. Area, 
639 -10 
640 “+31 
41 


Owner—Shri Eakub Mandal. 


(85) No. 29762E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 9, Plot No. 687, Arca 
38) Owner—Shri Eakub Mandal. 


(86) No. 29764F..P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 9. 


Plot No. Area. 
766 “16 
767 66 
1 
Owner—Shri Eakub Mandal. 


Part 1] 


سس 


(87) No. 29766E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 9. 


Plot No. Area. 
862 °15 

6ء 863 

0ء 


Owner—Shri Eakub Mandal. 


(88) No. 29768E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, এ. 14. No. 104, Khatian No. 9, Plot No. 990, Area 
-19+ -30=-49, Owner—Shri Hakub Mondal. 


(89) No. 29770E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polioce-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
boria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 7, Plot No. 21/1083, 
Area -04, Owner—Shri Eakub Mandal. 


(90) No. 29772E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Purba- 
bhatjangla, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 9, Plot No. 205, 
Area ۰34, Owner—Snri Khajer Ahmed Biswas. 


(91) No. 29774E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Purba- 
bhatjungla, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 
318, Area ۰49, Owner—Snri Md. Khajer Ahmed Biswas. 


(92) No. 29776E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Purba- 
bnatjungla, J. 14 No. 102, Khatian No. 105, Plot No. 
530, Area 54, Owner—Shri Md. Khajer Ahmed Biswas. 


(93) No. 29778E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sal- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 62, Plot No. 595, Area 
°31, Owner—Shri Enat Mondal. 


(94) No, 29780E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 62, Plot No. 272, Area 
“37, Owner—Shri Enat Mondal. 


(95) No. 29782E.P.A., dated 25th June 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 62, Plot No. 731, Area 
33, Owner—Shri Enat Mandal. 


(96) No. 20784E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
gachi, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 62, Plot No. 790, Area 
-08, Owner—Shri Enat Mondal. 


(97) No. 29786E.P.A., dated 26th June 1965. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram. 
nagor, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1627, Area 
+23, Owner—Shri Jan Md. Mandal. 


(98) No. 29788E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagor, J. L. No, 75, Khatian No. 331, Plot No. 1617, 
Area 69, Ownor—Shri Md. Fakir Chand Mondal. 


THK CALOUTTA GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 2, 1956 997? 


(99) No. 29790E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza RKam- 
nagor, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 331, Plot No. 1707, 
Area 1-09, Owner—Shri Md. Fakir Chand Mundal. 


(100) No. 29792E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Polioe-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 331, Plot No. 1450, 
Area ۰36, Owner—Shri Md. Fakir Chand Mondal. 


(101) No. 207941771১4. dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 62, Plot No. 553, Area 
۰18, Owner—Shri Enat Mandal. 


(102) No. 29796E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pani- 
nala, J. L. No. 43, Khatian 210, Plot No. 141, Area 1-31, 
Owner—Shri Md. Ummat Ali Sekh. 


(103) No. 29798E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


Distriot Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bhan- 
derkhola, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 496, Plot No. 530, 
Area -29, Owner—Shri Md. Rahamatulla Mandal. 


(104) No. 29800E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Jahangirpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 9, Plot No. 2601, 
Area ۰843, Owner—Shri Afsar Ali Mandal. 


(105) No. 29802E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Jahan- 
girpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 9, Plo. No. 236, 
Area "23১ Owner—Shri Afsar Ali Mandal. 


(106) No. 29804E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Mukterdaha, J. L. No. 146, Khatian No. 128, Plot 
No. 1245, Area 19, Owner—Shri Mojaher Sheak. 


(107) No. 29806E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Jahan- 
girpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 36, Plot No. 89, 
Area ۰15, Owner—Shri Md. Abdul Karim Mandal. 


(108) No. 29808E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Jahan- 
girpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 36, Plot No. 30, 
Area ۰٠20 Owner—Shri Md. Abdul Karim Mandal. 


(109) No. 29810E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Mukterdaha, J. L. No. 145, Khatian No. 526, Plot No. 
232, Area -64, Owner—Shri Majaher Sheak. 


(110) No. 20812E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Jahan- 
girpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 33, Plot No. 29, 
Area ۰20, Owner—Shri Md. Abdul Karim Mondal. 


(111) No. 29814E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Jahan- 
girpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 36, Plot No. 73, 
Area +15, Owner—Shri Md. Abdul Karim Mandal. 


(112) No. 29816E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Jabangirpur, J. L. No. 130, Khatian No. 40, Plot No. 186, 
Area 1-15, Owner—Shri Ichharaddin Sheak. 


2986 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr ] 


(113) No. 29818E.P.A., dated 25th June 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Jahan- 
girpur, J. L. No. 88, Khatian No. 287, Plot No. 2687, 
Area -51, Owner—Shri Abdul Karim Mandal. 


(114) No. 29820E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 383, Area -28, 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossen Biswas. 


(115) No. 29822E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza- Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 7, Plot No, 777, 
Area -34, Owner—Shri Eakub Mondal. 


(116) No. 29824E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 909, 
Area ۰17, Owner—Shri Elai Mandal. 


(117) No. 29826E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 970, 
Area ۰15, Owner—Shri Elai Mondal. 


(118) No. 29828E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 217, 
Area 128) Owner—Shri Elai Mondal. 


(119) No. 29830E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans, 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 179- 
Area ‘31+ -26, -67, Owner—Shri نما‎ Mondal. 


জিন 


(120) No. 29832E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 1024, 
Ares ۰14, Owner—Shri Elai Mondal. 


(121) No. 20834E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 101, 
Area ۰25, Owner—Shri Fateali Mondal. 


(122) No. 20836E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 119, Plot No. 514 
Area -23, Owner—Shri Rasun Ali Mondal. 


(123) No. 29838E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 731, 
Area ۰26 Owner—Shri Fateali Mondal. 


(124) No. 29840E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 4 
Area ۰28, Owner—Shri_Fateali Mondal. 


(125) No. 29842E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 705, Area 8, 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossen Biswas. 


(126) No. 29844E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza Arab- 
pore, J. L. No. 1321. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
152 768 -70 
152 ۲٣۷۷ 2°17 


Owner—Shri Momin Mondal. 


(127) No. 29846E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpore, J. L. No. 199, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 799, 
Area ۰32, Owner—Shri Momin Mondal. 


(128) No. 29848E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpore, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 107, Plot No. 788, 
Area 1 -62, Owner—Shri Momin Mondal. 


(129) No. 29850E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpore, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 887, 
Area -28, Owner—Shri Momin Mondal. 


(130) No. 29852E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpore, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 879, 
Area ۰83, Owner—Shri Momin Mondal. 


(131) No. 29854E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-Station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpore, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 98, Plot No. 1310, 
Area ۰38, Owner—Shri Momin Mondal. 


(132) No. 29856E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Sundalpur, J. L. No. 129, Khatian No. 1182, Plot 
lan 3726, Area 2:35, Owner—Shri Mukched Ali 

ek. 


(133) No. 29858E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Sundalpur, J. L. No. 129, Khatian No. 1182, Plot 
No. 3926, Area ۰42, Owner—Shri Mukched Ali Sekh. 


(134) No. 29486E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 391, Plot No. 173, 
Area ۱38, Owner—Shri Didar Sardar. 


(135) No. 20488E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpore, J. L. No. 1382, Khatian No. 391, Plot 
No. 171, Area ۰90 Owner—Shri Didar Sardar. 


(136) No. 20490E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 54, Plot No. 1311, 
Area :20, Owner—Shri Gokul Malita. 


(187) No. 29492E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-8Station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 585, Plot No. 873, 
Area ۰49, Owner—Shrimati Malajan Bibi. 


Pant tT] 


গার 


(138) No. 20494E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 585, Plot No. 856, 
Area ৮17) Owner—Shrimati Nalajan Bibi. 
(139) No. 29496H.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 179, Plot No. 717, 
Area :27, Owner—Shrimati Nalajan Bibi. 

(140) No. 29498E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Karimpore, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 28, Plot No. 759, 
Area ‘68, Owner—Shri Alam Sheak. 

(141) No. 29500E.P.A., dated 256th June 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 162, Plot No. 251, 
Area 10, Owner—Shri Panchu Malita. 

(142) No. 29502E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 162, Plot No. 249, 
Area ۰07, Owner—Shri Panchu Malita. 

(143) No. 29504E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian No. 162, Plot No. 247, 
Area °67, Owner—Shri Panchu Malita. 

(144) No. 29506E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Malika, 
J. L. No. 120, Khatian No. 44, Plot No. 469, Area -17, 
Owner—Shri Abdu) Majid Mallik. 

(145) No. 29508E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Sundalpur, J. L. No. 129, Khatian No. 157, Plot No. 
No. 2933, Area 2-03, Owners—Shri Awalad Kha and 
others. 

(146) No. 295]0E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 227, Area ۰16, owner—Shri 
Amir Hossain Biswas. 

(147) No. 29512E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. .ا‎ No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 66, Area ۰ 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas. 

(148) No. 29514E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli» 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 64, Area -34, 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas. 

(149) No. 20516E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 8, Plot No. 460, Area -20, 
Owner—Shri Abdul Jalil Sarkar. 


(150) No. 29518E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 8. 


Plot No. Area. 
452 “41 
453 "18 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2987 
———yeeEeEEEEE—E—E—E—ESEEEEeEE——————————————————— تحصحججٹبتتیتیہے2ی ۔ًٔ‌ْپتتٹت‎ 


454 18 


qa 


‘17 
Owner—Shri Abdul Jalil Sarkar. 


(151) No. 29520E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 76, Plot No. 657, 
Area ۰۵0, Owner—Shri Rajab Mandal. 


(152) No. 29522E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 183, Plot No. 716, 
Area :28, Owner—Shri Harmat Molla. 


(153) No. 29524E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 86, Plot No. 779, 
Area -7= -25= -96, Owner—Shri Hossain Ali Mandal. 


(154) No. 29526E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 39, Plot No. 684, 
Area ۰87 -- ١45-1 ۰32, Owner—Shri Hossain Ali Mandal. 


(155) No. 29528E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 86, Plot No. 205, 
Area 23412275145) Owner—Shri Hossain Ali Mandal. 


(156) No. 29530E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 86, Plot No. 1043, 
Area ‘27, Owner—Shri Hossain Ali Mandal. 


(157) No. 29532E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 978, Area 6 
Shri Amir Hssain Biswas. 


(158) No. 29590E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 


Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 1158, Plot No. 
2923, Area -14, Owner —Shri Budiruddin Mondal. 
a 


(159) No. 29592E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 226, Plot No. 
2338, Area 1:17, Owner—Shri Badiruddin Mondal. 


(160) No. 29594E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rabamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 226, Plot No. 
2924) Area ۰57, Owner—Shri Badiruddin Mondal. 


(161) No. 29596E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 226, Plot No. 
2863, Area 22, Owner—Shri Badiruddin Mondal. 


(162) No. 29508E.P.A., dated 25th June31955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No 271, Plot No. 
2831, Area -24, Owner—Shri Said Ali Molla 


(163) No. 29600E.P.A., dated 25th’JuneJ1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 271, Plot No. 
2816, Area -44, Owner—Shri Said Ali Molla. 


2988 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr ] 


(164) No. 29602E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 201, Plot No. 
2896, Area -53, Owner—Shri Said Ali Molla. 


(165) No. 29604E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 271, Plot No. 
3099, Area -71, Owner—Shri Said Ali Molla. 


(166) No. 29606E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 390, Plot No. 
3550, Area :24, Owner—Shri Ukil Mahammad Biswas. 


(167) No. 29608E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 390, Plot No. 
1041, Area -66, Owner—Shri Ukil Mahammad Biswas. 


(168) No, 29610E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Rahamatpur, J. L. No. 40, Khatian No. 390, Plot No. 
1221, Area "53, Owner—Shri Ukil Mahammad Biswas. 


(169) No. 29612E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Tehatta, Mauza Natna, 
J.L. No. 107, Khatian No. 495, Plot No. 2594, Area ۵ 
Owner—Shri Makaruddin Mondal. 


(170) No. 29614E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Salash, J. L. No. 325. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
120 302 ‘18 
119 275 90 


Owner—Shri Mafizuddin Sarkar. ~ 


(171) No. 29616E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Jantipur, J. L. No. 346. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Arg. 

126 276 1-18 

36- 1 7. ہے 129 

163 280 2 -08 
Owner—Shri Chapa Mandal. 


(172) No. 29618E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 
Dharmapur, J. L. No. 49. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 

36 291 244 

35 295 1 -83 

35 293 ১7 
Owner—Shri Gheru Molla. 


(173) No. 29620E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghats 
Mauza Gopinagar, J. L. No. 80, Khatian No. 16 Plot No 
167, Area -75, Owner—Shri Kasimuddin Mondal. 


(174) No. 20622E.P.A., dated 25th June 190, 
District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 


Baza Kashipur, J. L. No. 53, 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
96 323 2 -66 
97 324 10 
96 323 206 


Owner—Shri Manik Mondal. 


(175) No. 29624E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Bara Kashipur, J. L. No. 53 Khatian No. 95, Plot 
No. 383, Area 1 54) Owner—Shri Maniruddin Mondal. 


(176) No. 20626E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Polioe-station Hili, Mauza 
Jantipur, J. L. No. 346. 


Plot No. Area. 
44] 1 -06 
442 59 


Owner—Shri Uchman Mandal. 


(177) No. 20628E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 53, Plot No. 1092, Area -18 
Owner—Shri Md. Munsarali Mandal. 


(178) No. 29630E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J, L. No. 67, Khatian No. 195, Plot No. 436, Area -20 
Owner—Shri Mahammad Mandal. 


(179) No’ 29632E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 97, Plot No. 354, Area 4 
Owner—Shri Md. Takkel Mandal. 


(180) No. 29634E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 1157, Area -23, 
Owner—Shri Md. Takkel Mandal. 


(181) No. 29636E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 320, Area. ر15‎ 
Owner—Shri Md. Takkel Mandal. 


(182) No. 29638E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hijuli, 
J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 719, Area ر5‎ 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossen Biswas. 


(183) No. 29640E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Bahir- 
gachi, J. L. No. 73, Khatian No. 158, Plot No. 543, 
Area 1-97, Owner—Shri Hajarat Mandal. 


(184) No. 29642E.P.A., dated 25th June 1056. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 318,P lot No. 871, 
Area +61, Owner—Shri Md. Kangali Molla. 


(185) No. 29644E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 331, Plot No. 1626, 
Area ‘39, Owner—Shri Md. Alep Mandal. 


Part 1] 


4 (186) No. 29646E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram. 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 263, Plot No. 458, 
Area ‘72; Owner—Shri Md. Afteruddin Mandal. 


(187) No. 29648E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 318, Plot No. 848, 
Area ‘06, Owner—Shri Md. Kangali Molla. 


(188) No. 29650E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 287, Plot No. 221, 
Area 126) Owner—Shri Md. Mobarak Molla. 


(189) No, 29652E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Clapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 288, Plot No. 217, 
Area ۰43, Owner—Shri Md. Mobarak Molla. 


(190) No. 29654E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 288, Plot No. 261, 
Area 29, Owner—Shri Md. Mobarak Molla. 


(191) No. 29656E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 287, Plot No. 676, 
Area ‘74, Owner—Shri Md. Mobarak Molla. 


(192) No. 29658E.P.A., dated 25th June 1958. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Pati,a 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 1123, Area -19, 
Qwner—Shri Mohd. Takkel Mandal. 


(193) No. 29660E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 1136, Area 13, 
Owner—Shri Mohd. Takkel Mondal. 


(194) No. 29662E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 1324, Area "26, 
Owner—Shri Mohd. Takkel Mandal. 


(195) No. 29664E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 1164, Area -21, 
Qwner—Shri Mohd. Rahim Box Mandal. 


(196) No. 29666E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 1356, Area 16, 
Owner—Shri Rahim Box Mandal. 


(197) No. 20668E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 1221, Area -22, 
Owner—Shri Rahim Box Mandal. 


(198) No. 29670E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 1063, Area :13, 
Owner—Shri Rahim Box Mandal. 


(199) No. 29672E.P.A., dated 25th,June 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, MauzajPatia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 152, Plot No. 1326, Area '39, 
Owner—Shri Rahim Box Mandal. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2989 


(200) No. 29674K.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Patia, 
J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, Plot No. 1166, Area 0 
Owner—Shri Mohd. Takkel Mandal. 


(201) No. 29676E.P.A., dated 25th June 19565. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 288, Plot No. 899, 
Area ۰62, Owner—Shri Md. Mobarak Molla. 


(202) No. 29678E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 288, Plot No. 1031, 
Area ۰30, Owner—Shri Md. Mobarak Molla. 


(203) No. 29680E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 359, 
Area -18, Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mandal. 


(204) No. 29682E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 414, 
Area :25, Owner—Shri Khan Md. Mandal. 


(205) No. 29684E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1556, 
Area ۰32, Owner—Shri Jan Md. Mandal. 


(206) No. 29686E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 02, Plot No. 345, 
Area ‘17, Owner—Shri Jan Md. Mondal. 


(207) No. 29688E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 669, 
Area 0 Owner—Shri_ Jan Md. Mandal. 


(208) No. 29690E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1673, 
Area :33, Owner—Shri Jan Md. Mandal. 


(200) No. 29692E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza BRam- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 615, 
Area ‘37, Owner—Shri Jan Md. Mandal. 


(210) No. 29694E.P.A., dated 25th June ق1955‎ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1028, 
Area :28, Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mandal. 


~ (211) No. 29696E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1027, 
Area ‘92, Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mandal. 


(212) No. 29608E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 40, Area 
:.17, Owner—Shri Jan Mahanimad Mondal. 


(213) No. 29700E.P.A., dated 25th June 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 419, 
Area 14) Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mondal. 


(214) No. 29702E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram. 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1691, 
Area 30, Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mondal. 


2990 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr 1آ‎ 
eee 


(215) No. 29704E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram. 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 216, 
Area ‘11, Owner—Shri Jan. Mahammad Mondal. 


(216) No. 29706E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 852, Area 
-13, Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mondal. 


(217) No. 29708E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar. J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 326, Plot No. 1667, 
Area 78, Owner—Shri Md. Ajir Mandal. 


(218) No, 29710E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Ram- 
nagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian No. 92, Plot No. 1669, Area 
۰31. Owner—Shri Jan Mahammad Mandal. 


(219) No. 29712E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 44, Plot No. 167, Area 
۰10 Owner—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(220) No, 29714E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 62, Plot No. 121, Area 
65, Owner—Shri Enat Mandal. 


(221) No. 29716E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 150, Plot No. 84, Area 
“619 Owner—Shri Nabichaddi Mandal. 


(222) No. 29718E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia. Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 150, Plot No. 13, Area 
-15, Owner—Shri Nabichaddi Mandal. 


کصوتد 


(223) No. 29720E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 150, Plot No. 456, 
Area -44, Owner—Shri Nabichaddi Mandal. 


(224) No. 29722E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 131, Plot No, 224, 
Area ۰32, Owner—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(225) No, 29724E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sate 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 688, Area 
-39, Owner—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(226) No. 29726E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 387, 
Area ۰90, Owner—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(227) No, 29728E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza Sat- 
ghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 131, Plot No. 270, Area 
-59, Owner—Shri Antal Haque Mandal. 


(228) No. 29730E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hiju, 
J. .ا‎ No. 107, Khatian ‘No, 21, Plot No, 722, Area 81) 
Owner—Shri Amir Hossen Biswas. 


(229) No. 29732E.P.A., dated 25th June 1960. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kul. 
gachi, J. L. No. 105, Khatian No. 214, Plot No. 871, 
Area 45, Owner—Shri Hamijuddin Mandal. 


(230) No. 29734E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kul. 
gachi, J. L. No. 105, Khatian No. 111) Plot No. 3734, 
Area 14) Owner—Shri Hamijuddin Mandal. 


(231) No. 29736E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kul- 
gachi, J. L. No. 105, Khatian No. 111, Plot No. 898, 
Area ۰23-- -14=+37, Owner—Shri Hamijuddin Mandal. 


(232) No. 29738E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kul. 
gachi, J. L. No. 105, Khatian No. 111, Plot No. 1019, 
alan 000007 Owner—Shri Hamijuddin 

andal. 


(233) No. 29740E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hi. 
zuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 30, Plot No. 1085, Area 
‘54, Owner—Shri Amin Hossain Biswas. 


)234) 20742E.P.A., dated 25th June 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hi- 
zuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 21, Ptot No. 1044, Area 
-29, Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas. 


(235) No. 20744E.P.A., dated 2th June 1966. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hi- 
zuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 30, Plot No. 1086, Area 
-60, Owner—Shri Amir Hossain Biswas. 


(236) No. 29746E.P.A., dated 25th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Kul- 
gachi, J. L. No. 105, Khatian No. 119, Plot No. 2309, 
Area :29, Owner—Shri Daud Nabi Mandal. 


(237) No. 29748E.P.A., dated 25th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Bans- 
beria, J. L.No. 104, Khatian No. 168 Plot, No. 38, Area 
°57, Owne—Shri Taebali Mandal and others. 


(238) No. 30180E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station ,زان‎ Mauza 
Domrone, J. L. No. 314,. ~ 


Khaeian No. Plot No, Area. 
99 411 [1 
54 42 43 
54 413 67 

9 194 33 
137 197 33 
93 420 1 "32 
127 421 61 
9 429 52 
16 419 18 
98 800 52 
24 494 1-03 
24 493 66 
19 491 24 
l 514 33 
16 274 36 
45 466 ] -22 
10 417 24 
16 418 65 
157 498 45 


Owner—Shri Afimuddin Shaik. 


Part I] 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2901 


جک ھیننتجٹی- ٹر نۓ. ‏ _ _._ے سپ a a‏ 


(499) No. 30178E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Ferusha, J. L. No. 331. 


খাছ 


KhatianNo. Plot No. Area. 

6ء 127 24 

105 128 *28 

64 272 1-00 

93 273 * 94 

20 129 1-09 
Owner—Shri Sadu Mandal. 


(240) No. 30176E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Ferusha, J. L. No.331. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 


109 21 *69 
42 29 1-10 
56 29 “89 

133 30 76 


Owner—Shri Chenu Mandal. 


(241) No. 30174E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955, 


Distmvet West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Fazullapur, J. L. No. 391. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
43 507 “15 
43 137 43ء‎ 
44 399 -60 
43 140 92 
44 151 2-00 
44 401 1-10 
44 391 °65 
44 407 °33 


Owner—Shri Dukha Mandal!. 


(242) No. 30172E.P.A., dated 26th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pur- 
babhatjangala, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 241, Plot No, 
1227, Area -30, Owner—Shri Mohd. Khajer Ahammad 
Biswas. 


(243) No. 30170E.P.A., dated 27th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pur- 
babhatjangala, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 
819, Area -53-+--20=-73, Owner—Shri Mohd. Khajer 
Ahammad Biswas. 


(244) No. 30168E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pur- 
babhatjangala, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 
1233, Area ۰20, Owner—Shri Mohd. Khajer Ahammad 
Biswas. 


(245) No. 30166E.P.A., dated 27th June 1055. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pur- 
babhatjangala, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 
1330, Area -14, Owner—Shri Mohd. Khajer Ahammad 


Biswas. 


(246) No. 30164E.P.A., dated 27th June 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pur- 
babhatjungala, J. L. No, 102, Khatian No. 241, Plot No. 
102/1546, Area "18 Owner— Shri Mohd. Khajer Aham- 


mad Biswas. 


a 
(247) No. 30162E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


Dictrict Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Pur- 
babhatjangala, J. L. No. 102, Khatian No. 262, Plot No. 
397, Area ۰47-+- 297-74, Owner—Shri Mohd. Khajer 
Ahammad Biswas. ; 


(248) No. 30160E.P.A., dated 27th June 1988, 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Mail- 
ka, J. L. No. 190, Khatian No. 44, Plot No, 389, Area 1۰ 
Owner—Shri Abdul Majid Mallick. 


(249) No. 30158E.P.A., dated 27th Juno 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Mail- 
ka, J. L. No. 120, Khatian No. 44, Plot No. 359, Area 
۰18, Owner—Shri Abdul Majid Mallick. 


(250) No. 30150E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-atation Kotwali, Mauza Mail- 
ka, J. L. 120, Khatian No. 44, Plot No. 467, Area - 28, 
Owner—Shri Abdu! Majid Mallick. 


(251) No. 30154E.P.A., dated 27th June 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza Hiju- 
li, J. L. No. 107, Khatian No, 21, Plot No. 718, Area 
°27+°25=°52, Owner—Shri Amir Hossen Biswas. 


(252) No. 30152K.P.A., dated 27th Juné 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kasimpore, Mauza 
Sundalpore, J. L. No. 129, 


Khatian No. Plot No, Area. 
690 3721 “90 
372 3919 0ء‎ 


Owner—Shri Rahim Boxa Mandal. 


(253) No. 30726E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Daksa, J. L. No. 105, Khatian No. 288, Plot 
No. 408, Area ۰18, Owner—Shri Didur Sardar. 


(254) No. 30728E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurgtrat, Mauza 
Badmuluk Kismat J. L. 82. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Are’ 
69 292 3°35 
70 251 75 
70 254 1-43 


Owner—Shri Mohan Mandal. 


(255) No. 30730E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 
Badkismuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82. 


Khatien No. Plot No. Area. 
61 268 04 
61 272 ۲۰ 
61 76 41 
61 76 41 


Owner-—Shrimati Misisan Bibi. 
(256) No. 30732E.P.A., dated 186 July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Polico-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Badmulk Kismat, J. L. No. 82, Khatian No. 55, 
Plot No. 202, Area 1°77, Owner—Shrunati Fazal Bibi. 


2992 


তর 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, Mauza 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr 1 


٦ 
iting uae, ল্যাব সস 
50775500000...) 


(257) No. 30734E.P.A., dated fet July 1900. 


Badmuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82. 


Khatian No. 


8] 
81 
81 
81 


0+ 0 
নি, 273 


32 
85 


Owner—Shrimati Aturan Bibi. 


(258) No. 30736E.P.A., dated Ist July 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Trikul: J. L. No. 76, Khatian No. 153, Plot No. 


Plot No. 


Area. 


445, Area 5-38, Owner—Shri Hafijuddin Sardar. 


(259) No. 30738E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 


Mauza Badmuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82. 


Khatian Ne. Plot No. 
58 7 
58 7 
08 1 
: 58 7 
Owner—Shri Babulal Mandal. 


Area. 


سح 


(260) No. 30740E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dimajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Badmuluk Kismat, J. L. No. 82, Khatian No. 81, 
Plot No. 77, Area ۰۹7, Owner—Shri Hossain Mandal. 


(261) No. 30742E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinujpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Jantipur, J. L. No. 346. 


Khatian No. 


20 
هو ٭ 


Owner—Shri Rahimuddin Mandal. 


Plot No. 


611 
612 
613 
614 
§21 
537 
538 
539 


(262) No, 30744E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


Districl West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Ramjibanpur, J. L. No.38l. 


Khatian No. 


11 
11 
109 


569 
39 
539 


Owner—Shri Dhanbar Mandal, 


Plot No. 


(263) No. 30746E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955, ¥ 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 


Ramjibanpur, J. L. No. 381. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
71 289 $33 
82 50 30 
58 45 49 
78 80 66 
35 352 33 

9 350 66 
77 345 18 
96 54 39 

105 37 18 
10 103 10 
78 24 15 
ane! 30 16 
52 49 66 
71 403 66 


Owner—Shri Chand Mandal. 


(264) No. 30748E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Fazullapur, J. L. No. 391. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area, 
61 9 1-00 
6] 20) 4ء‎ 
6 10] 52 
61 15 3°10 
27 81 1-24 
01 61 75 
34 76 12 
29 135 10 
6॥ 129 15 
61 85 15 
Owner—Shri Ahmod Mandal. 


(265) No. 30750E.P.A., dated lst July 1956. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Hili, Mauza 
Matash, J. L. No. 226. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
77 227 “Il 
77 228 19 
۲۷ 220 26 
77 231 08 
77 7 43 
78 28 39 
78 38 16 
78 39 15 
78 40 07 
78 55 39 
718 60 48 


Owner—Shri Idu Mandal. 


(266) No. 30756E.P.A., dated 196 July 19৮7, 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Chak Briga, J. L. No. 90, Khatian No. 140, 
Plot No. 316, Area ہ۰50‎ Owner—Shri Panchu Shekh. 


(267) No. 30758E.P.A., dated Ist July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Tapan, Mauza 
Kashemunlai, J. L. No. 273, Khatian No. 3, Plot No, 
139, Area -78, Owner—Shri Fakir Mandal. 


By order of the Evacuee Property Management 
Committee, West Bengal, 


J. N. MUKHERJEE, 
Secretary to the Committec. 


2. THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2093 


Sees‏ سے 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No. S088Dis. /1)/11L-90/55.—17th July 1956.— Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 40191)15-11)1 
{11-90/55, dated the 808 August 1950, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Ganges Valley Bone Mall, post office Uttarpara, district Hooghly, 
under the proprietorship of Messrs. 8. Curlender & Co., Calcutta, and their 
workmen represented by the Ganges Valley Bong. Mill and Mygoe Glue 
Factory Workers’ Union, Netaji Subhas Road, Uttarpara, district Hooghly, 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for 
adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal ; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the suid Tribunal 
- complaint in writing was made by eight workmen, namely, (1) Shri 
Paresh Chandra Barui, (2) Shri Makhan Tal Sen, (8) Shri Nikunja Das, 
(4) Shri Sashadhar Shi, (5) Shri Mahadeb, (fi) Shri Narayan Chandra Jana, 
(7) Shri Biswanath Adbikari and (8) Shri Santosh of the said Messrs. Ganges 
Valley Bone Mill, before the said Tribunal, against the said Mill, alleging 
1181 the said Mill had altered, to the prejudice of the said eight workmen, 
the conditions of service applicable to them immediately before the com- 
mencement of the said proceedings; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(Government ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 18۰ 
trial Jisputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby ٥ 
publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by (1) Shri Paresh Chandra Barui, (2) Shri Makhan 
Lal Sen, (3) Shri Nikunja Das, (4) Shri Sashadhar Shi, (5) Mahadeb, 
(6) Shri Narayan Chandra Jana, (7) Shri Biswanath Adhikari and (8) 
Santosh, employees of Ganges Valley Bone Mill against the aforesaid 
Bone Mill (Case No. 432/55, under section 338), 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAI, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: 
Suri G. 1), MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : 
For the employees: Shri Patit Paban Pathak. 
For the Company: Shri N. M. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


The original reference, out of which this complaint under section ۸ 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, has arisen, was made under Govern- 
ment order No. 4013Dis, /1(/111-90/ ہ55‎ dated 30th August 1955. 


AWARD 


This is a complaint under rection 338A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
filed by Shri Paresh Chandra Barui and 7 others. Their case is that during 
the pendency of ihe original reference, the Opposite Party, Ganges Valley 
1076 Mill, Jaid them off without permission of the Tribunal, and as such 
section ۶8 of the Act has been contravened. 


2994 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 {Part 1 
"00 20 

The Opposite Party denied having contravened the provisions 01558011011 
38 of the Act. 1t wanted to say that lay-off was u condition of service with 
the employees including the petitioners. 

It is not necessary for me to enter into the merits of the case, as the 
parties have filed a joint petition of compromise before the Tribuual stating 
thai the lay-off has since been withdrawn by the Opposite Party and that the 
petitioners have no claim whatsvever regarding sins সু against the 
Opposite Party. Accordingly, the parties have prayed that a “no dispute” 
uward be passed in this case. Verused the said joint petition of compromise, 
and heard the leurned lawyer for the Company and also some ot the peti- 
tioners. The terms as contained in the joint petition of compromise are 
given effect to. 

Accordingly, a ‘‘no dispute’ award is made im this ease. The joint 
petition of compromise filed by the parties do form part of the uward as 


Annexure ‘‘A’’. 
G. (۸. MUKHERJER, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


The 5th July 1966. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 
5-7-06. 
ANNEXURE ‘A” 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


In the matter of an application wader 
section (34 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act. 

Subject—Lay-off. 

Paresh Chandra Barui 

and others oe Petitioners. 


Ganges Valley Bone 
Mills ... Opposite Party. 
The humble petition of compromise 
between the Opposite Party Com- 
pany and the petitioners (signa- 
tories to the petition). 
Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH : 

That the lay-off has heen withdrawn against these petitioners (signa- 
tories), and that the parties above have settled the dispute and the signa- 
tories-petitioners have no claim whatsoever in respect of any compensation 
against the Opposite Party. 

It is therefore humbly prayed that the Tribunal will be pleased to pass 
a ‘‘no dispute’? award. 

And for this act of kindness, your petitioners, as in duty bound, shall 
ever pray. 

(ILLEGIBLE), 
Manager, 
Opposite Party Company, 


Ganges Valley Bone Mill, 
Uttarpara. 


panvT] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUUUST 2, 1956 299 


بے مجح 


ee 
(Signatures of the petitioners.) 


(1) PARESH CHANDRA BARUT. (14) B. BANERJEE. 


(2) 111, of Sukhu Mistry, (10) HAR] CHARAN MANDAT.. 
(3) LT. of Hart Charan Das. (16) RAJESWAR MANDAL. 
(4) ۰۱۰٠. of Sashadhar Shi, (11) ASHUTOSH MUKIERJEE, 
(5) PRANAB KUMAR CHATTER- (18) SANTOSH. 
JEE. (19) SANTOSH KUMAR 
(6) KASHINATH 11۰ DUTTA. 
(7) L.T.1. of Shahadeo. (20) L.T.T. of Nani. 
(8) L.T.1. of Myan. এ 1... of Panchu. 
(9) ۱.1.1. of Makhan Lal Sen. 22) ۱.1.1. of Md. Khalil. 
10) 10,111. of Soleman. (23) L.T.1. of Ramji. 
11) R. CM ATTERJ 1518, (24) 1.0.1. of Nikunja. 
(12) 1.1.1. of Bhaglu. (25) ANIT KUMAR MUKHER- 
(13) L.T.1L. of Rakbal Ch, Paul. JEK. 
G. 1১. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 
Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 5th July 1956. 
By order of the Governor, 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 
ORDER 


No, 30891Dis./1D/117,-90/56.—17th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 11 /- 
1111-00/۸۸, dated the 30th August 1955, the industrial dispute hetween 
Mesars. Ganges Valley Bone Mill, post office Uttarpara, district Hooghly, 
under the proprietorship of Messrs. S. Curlender & Co., Calcutta, ond their 
workmen represented by the Ganges Valley Bone Mill and Mvgoe (Glue 
Factory Workers’ Union Netaji Subhas Road, Uttarpara, district Hooghly, 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto, was referred for 
adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings hefore the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by one workman, namely, Shri 
Anil Kumar Chatterjee of the said Messrs. Ganges Valley Bone Mull, before 
the suid Tribunal, against the said Mill, alleging that the said Mill had 
dismissed the said workman concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government : 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE. 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by Shri Ani! Kumar Chatterjee, a workman of Canges 
Valley Bone Mill, 96 N. 8. Road, Uttarpara, Hooghly, represented by 
the Workers’ Union, N. 8. Road, Uttarpara, Hooghly, against the 
aforesaid Bone Mill (Case No. 61 of 1956 under section 33A). 


2096 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 {Part 1 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAI, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
۱ PRESENT: | 
Suri G. 1১. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : 
For the employee: Shri Potit Paban Pathak. 
For the Company: Shri N. M. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


The original reference, out of which this complaint under section 33A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, has arisen, was made to this Tribunal 
لصا‎ Government order No. 4013Dis.//111-90/55, dated 30th August, 
1955. 


AWARD 


This is a complaint under section 83۸ of the Industrial Disputes Act 
filed by Shri Anil Kumar Chatterjee, a workman of Ganges Valley Bone 
Mill. His case is that during the pendency of the original reference, the 
Opposite Party, Ganges Valley Bone Mill, dismissed him on 6th June 19656, 
on a false and baseless charge, without the permission of the Tribunal, and 
as such section 33 of the Act has been contravened. 


The application was contested by the gh ae Valley Bone Mill, the 
Opposite Party. It is urged on its hehalf that the application is not 
maintainable in law. The Opposite Party further wanted to say that the 
Management was quite justified in dismissing the petitioner. 


An objection has been taken on behalf of the Opposite Party that the 
present application under section 33A 1s not competent on the ground that 
this very question was the subject matter of another complaint under 
section o8A, which the petitioner himself did not like to pursue ultimately, 
as a result of which a ‘‘no dispute’? award was made in the case. 
Accordingly, the Opposite Party has contended that the petitioner cannot 
raise نت‎ dispute in respect of the matter, which ended in a ‘‘no 4٠٥٥” 
award. 


In order to appreciate the contention of the Opposite Party on this 
point, I called for the file of the case, in which this particular workman, 
Shri Anil Kumar Chatterjee, made the previous complaint under section 
934 of the Act. It 1s case No. 340 of 1955 under section 33A. I have 
perused the said file, and it appears that this petitioner made similar 
complaint under section 338A in the aforesaid case, as has been done in the 

resent case. The allegation in both the complaints is exactly the same. 
he previous complaint, as the record of the case goes to show, was allowed 
to be withdrawn, as the petitioner filed a petition stating that in pursuance 
of a talk he had with Mr. Pyane, Manager of the Company, he did not like 
to proceed with this complaint under section 33A of the Act. The Tribunal 
acting on this petition allowed the complaint to be withdrawn as prayed 
for, and gave an award accordingly on 6th February 1956. The petition 
filed by the petitioner was made part of the award as Annexure ‘‘A”’. 
The present complaint was filed only a few days after this. So, the 
question is whether the present complaint is maintainable on the same 
facts, in view of the withdrawl of the previous complaint, which culmi- 
nated in an award by this Tribunal. I have given my careful and anxious 


Part T | THE CAIOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 2997 
———— ০ ৯ ২ 
coysideration — to the matter, and I am of the view thut the present 
cumplaint is not maintainable, mm view of what hap ened as regards the 
previous complaint as stated above. J have already observed that the 
allegation as made in this complaint is the same, as was made in the 
previous one. There has been no further cause of action since the previous 
complaint was made by the present petitioner. The grievance of the 
petitioner in the হল complaint was that the Opposite Party 0151019860 
him by a notice dated 6th June 1955 on false and baseless charges of gross 
insubordination, ete., during the pendency of the original reference, and 
without the permission of the Tribunal. Similar is the grievance of the 
petitioner in the present complaint. There is no addition of any new 
cause or grievance in the present complaint. If that be so, I wonder how 
the petitioner can reagitate the same matter, which was finally concluded 
between the parties by the order passed by this Tribunal on 6th February 
1956 on the basis of an application made by this very petitioner to the 
effect that he did not like to proceed with the case. The Tribunal in 
pursuance of that application made an award. That award has the bind- 
ing effect on the parties, and continues to he binding on the parties still. 
The matter involved in the present case, waa the matter directly and 
suhatantially raised in the previous complaint. Admittedly, there has 
heen no further cause of action. That being so, a party cannot be allowed 
10 agitate again before a Tribunal the same cause, nor is it desirable that 
the Tribunal should be vexed twice over the same cause. If such a 
thing 18 allowed to go on, the work of the Tribunal would he stultified. 
The rule of finality should be observed in Industrial Courts in appropriate 
cases, otherwise the harmonious relations between capital and labour may 
be disturbed, and the defeated party may be encouraged to raise the same 
point over and over again in the hope of ultimate success. I am mindful 
of the fact that the rule of res judicata, as understood in Civil Law, does 
not strictly apply to industrial disputes, for in view of the provisions of 
section 18 of the Act, the rule of res judicata if applied to industrial 
disputes, would lead to stagnation and a feeling of frustration, and so 
would create more unrest in the industrial sphere. But the recognition 
of the doctrine of finality of a judgment between the same parties cannot 
be ruled out altogether. even when the matter involved is raised before an 
Industrial Court, if the matter directly and substantially raised and 
adjudicated upon in the previous proceedings be directly and substantially 
in issue in the aubsequent proceedings. My view ia that such o rule of 
finality should, therefore, apply to awards given in respect of industrial 
disputes, when the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the 
prior award continue to remain the same. Even if the provisions of 
section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure cannot in terms apply to the 
industrial disputes, the principle embodied in that section is applicable 
to appropriate cases, If the matter has once been directly raised before 
an Industrial Tribunal and adjudicated upon fairly without fraud or 
collusion, the adjudication must be held to he binding on the parties, if 
the same question is directly ond substantially raised in the subsequent 
proceedings. Even if it be conceded that ordinarily the principle of res 
judicata 1s not strictly applicable to industrial matters, still it will not be 
open to a workman to reagitate a matter, which has already been dealt 
with by the Industrial Tribunal previously in a proceeding, except when 
there is no material change in the circumstances or some other sufficient 
cause. Judged by this test, it can be safely said that such element is 
absent in the present complaint. 


For the reasons stated above, the Tribunal finally holds that the present 
application under section 33A is not maintainable in law. In this view 


of the matter, the Tribunal refrains from entering into the merits of the 
case, which might be kept open. 


2098 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Part 1 


‘The result, therefore, is that the present application under section ڈ0‎ 


of the Act be rejected, | 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 


D-7-06. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 5th July 1966. 


By order of the Covernor, 


N. ©. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3135Dis./1D/111.-59/56.—18th July 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2749Dis. /1)/11I- 
125/55, dated the 17th July 1955, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Bharat Glass Works, Ltd., Belghurria, 24-Parganas and their workmen 
represented by the Bharat Glass Workers’ Union, 7 Dinanath Chatterjee 
Street, post office 13810101718, 24-Parganas, regarding the matters specified in 
সন thereto was referred for adjudication to the First Industrial 
Tribunal; 


And whereas the said First Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its interim award on the said industrial dispute: 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said interim award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Bharat Glass Works, 
Ltd., Belghurria, 24-Parganas, and their workmen represented by the 
Bharat Glass workers’ Union, 7 Dinanath Chatterji Street, post office 
Belghurria, 24-Parganas, referred under C.0. No. 0 /11L-125 '- 
55, dated the 17th June 1955 (case No. ۷۱۱۱۰۱95 of 1954), 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAI. TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT : 

Suri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retd.), Judge, First Industrial 
Tribunal. 

For the Union: Shri Madan Saha, Advocate. 

For the Company: Shri P. K. Sengupta, Advocate. 


INTERIM AWARD. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour. hy 
order No. 2749Dis. /D/11L-125/55, dated the 17th June 1955, referred the 
industrial disputes between Messrs. Bharat Glass Works, Ltd., Belghurria, 
24-Parganas, and their workmen represented by Bharat Glass Workers’ 
Union, 7 Dinanath Chatterji Street, post office Belghurria, 24-Parganas, 


— ‌‌۶ the matters described in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. 


part 1ر‎ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 299? 
————————————————————————————————— عست‎ 


Notices were issued on both parties, who filed written statements 
setting’ forth their respective cases. 


Qn 19th June 1966 the Company filed an application and raised the 
preliminary objection that, inasmuch as, the Company carried on an 
industry in the manufacture or production of glass and ceramics, it was & 
controlled industry within the meaning of the term in the Industries 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (IXV of 1961) and that, there- 
fore, the appropriate Government under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, was the Central Government (the (tovernment of 
India) and not the State Government (the Government of West Bengal). 
li is, therefore, stated that (i) the Order of reference made by the Govern- 
ment of West Bengal is without authority and jurisdiction and is invalid 
and otherwise bad in law. 


(ii) There is no proper, legal or valid reference to this Tribunal. 


(ii) This Tribunal has no jurisdiction to take seisin of matters relating 
to a “scheduled and ০0100011607) industry. 


(iv) This Tribunal should desist or refrain from adjudication of the 
sasues in the achedule mentioned in the order of reference. 


The petitioner Company prays that before proceeding further into the 
adjudication of the case, a decision of the preliminary objections as 
mentioned above should be made. A copy of the petition was served on 
ihe Union and the Union opposed the application. The parties were heard 
at length on 19th June 1956 and 27th June 1956. 


The learned Advocate for the Company pointed out that the present 
Company carried on an industry engaged in the manufacture or production 
of glass and ceramies and that such an industry was covered by item No. 
97 of the first schedule of The Industries (Development and Regulation) 
Act of 1951. Clause (ee) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act was 
inserted by section 32 of the [Industries (Development and Regulation) 
Act of 1951. Under that clause ‘‘a controlled industrv’’ means on industry 
the control of which by the Tnion has been declared by anv Central Act 
to he expedient in the public interest. Section 2 of The Industries 
(Development and Regulation) Act of 1951 declares that it is expedient 
in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the 
industries specified in the First Schedule of the Act. The industry of the 
present Company is, therefore, a controlled industry within the meaning of 
the term in section 2(ee) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The learned 
Advocate, therefore, pressed that, inasmuch as, the industry of the 
Company was a controlled industry, it was the Central Government who 
had the power to contro) the industry in various matters as mentioned in 
the Industries (Development ond Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV of 1951) 
and the State Government did not possess the powers to interfere with this 
industry in any manner. It is urged that the “‘appropriate Government”’ 
in relation to an industrial dispute concerning this Hh oni is, therefore, 
the (entral Government and not the State Government. The learned 
Advocate referred to sections 25, 26, and 307 of the Act LXV of 1951 and 
pointed out that the Central Government had not delegated its powers 
regarding the control of any of the controlled industries mentioned in 
the First Schedule of the Act to the State Government, that the Central 
(fovernment also did not give any direction to the State Government as to 
the carrying into execution in the State of any provisions of this Act or of 


3000 THE CAICTTTA GAZETTE, AUGUSTD 2, 0 | Part | 


el 


any oider or any direction made thereunder or that the Central Govern. 
nent did not exempt the industry of the present company from the 
operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or order, 
made thereunder and that, therefore, the State Government had no 
authority to refer an industrial dispute in relation to this industry to the 
Tribunal aa it had done. Act LXV of 1951 lays down the mode in which 
the control of the scheduled industries is to be exercised by the Central 
Government. These are mentioned in Chapters Tl, ITT, 111۸, and 7 
and IV of the Act. Chapter II relates to the establishment of Central 
Advisory Council and Development Councils, principally to advise the 
Central Government on matters concerning the development and regulation 
of scheduled industries. Chapter IIT relates to regulation of scheduled 
industries, licensing of new industrial undertakings, etc. Chapter IITA 
relates to the direct management or control of industrial undertakings by 
Central Government in certain cases. Chapter ITIB relates to the control ' 
of supply, distribution, price, ete., of certain articles. Chapter IV lays 
down some miscellaneous provisions regarding the powers of inspection 
of scheduled industries, etc., for any person authorised by the Central 
Government in this behalf and other provisions. Section 26 lays down that 
the Central Government may by a notified order direct that any power 
exercisable by it under this Act [other than the power given to it by section 
16 and 18(a)], shall be exercisable by such officer or authority which will 
include in the said expression any Development Council, State Government 
or Officer or Authority subordinate to the Central Government os may be 
specified in the direction. Section 26 lays down that the Central Government 
may give directions to any State Government as to the carrying into 
execution in the State of any of the provisions of this Act or of any order or 
direction made thereunder. Section 201) lavs down that if the Central Gov- 
ernment is of opinion having regard to the smallness of the number of 
workers employed or to the amount invested in any industrial undertaking 
or to the desirability of encouraging small undertaking generally or to the 
stage of development of any scheduled industry that it would not he in the 
public interest to apply all or any of the provisions of this Act thereto, it may 
by notification in the official Gazette exempt, suhject to such conditions as 
1 may think fit to impose, any industrial undertaking or any clasa of 
industrial undertaking or class of scheduled industries as may be specified 
from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or 
order made thereunder. It is, therefore, clear that the delegation of power 
laid down in section 25 or the power to issue directions as mentioned in 
section 26 or the power to exempt in special cases some scheduled industries 
all relate to powers exercisable by the Central Government under this Act in 
regard to the controlled industries. There is nothing in this Act and in the 
definition of the great variety of powers mentioned in varioun section of 
the Act to show that the Central Government has been vested by this Act the 
power to refer industrial disputes concerning any controlled industry to the 
Industrial Tribunal for adjudication. In other words, these variety of 
powers do not make the Central Government the appropriate Government 
for industrial disputes in relation to the scheduled or the controlled indus- 
tries. Section 32 of this Act amends section 2 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act in the definition of the appropriate Government in relation to the 
reference of an industrial dispute to the Tribunal. Section 2(a) has heen ২০ 
amended as to show that an “appropriate Government” means the Central 
Government in relation to an industrial dispute “concerning any such con- 
trolled industry as may be specified in this hehalf by the Central Govern- 
ment’’. In relation to any other dispute, the appropriate Government is 
the State Government. Section 32 also inserts clause (ee) defining what is 
meant by “‘controlled industry”? in section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act 


Part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 3001 


aI EI Cm ARI ge ১১১22৬০১০38 সার এ RE TED +۰۳ نہ وو‎ জি 


t ix, therefore, clear that although the industry carried on by the present 
Company is a controlled industry, in relation to the industrial dispute 
concerning this industry, the Central Government will be the “‘appropriate 
(0০171167067 only if this controlled industry was specified in this behalf by 
the Central (tovernment, and in the absence of such specification, the State 
Government will be the “‘appropriate Government’ in relation to such an 
industrial dispute. There is nothing on record to show, nor 1s it suggested 
by the learned Advocate for the Company that the Central Government has 
ever specified itself to be the “‘appropriate Government’’ in relation to the 
present industry. It is, therefore, abundantly clear that the Central 
(Government is not the appropriate Government in relation to the industrial 
dispute in the present case, and the State Government is the approprtate 
Government in accordance with section 2(a) of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
The reference by the Government of West Bengal of the industrial dispute 
in question is, therefore, competent. 


The learned Advocate for the Company cited the decision of the Hon’ble 
Labour Appellate Tribunal of India in the case of Bhowra Coke Plant, 
reported in 1966(1) L.I.J., 195. In this case it was decided that the 
definition of ‘‘mine” in section 2(j)(vi) of the Mines Act, 1952, included a 
coke plant manufacturing tar and industrial coke from coal purchased from 
outside. It was further decided that such industry is an industrial under- 
taking pertaining to one of the industries included in the First Schedule to 
Industrial Development and Regulation Act, 1951. Hence it being an 
industry carried on under the authority of the Central Government, the 
appropriate Government for the purpose of section 2(a) must be held to he 
the Central Government and not the State in which it is situated. The 
Hon’ble Tribunal decided that the reference made by the Bihar Govern- 
ment in relation to an industrial dispute concerning the Bhowra Coke Plant 
was ultra vires of the Act and, therefore, incompetant, inasmuch as, for 
reasons mentioned above the Central Government was the appropriate (Gov- 
ernment in relation to the industrial dispute in question. The Bhowra Coke 
Plant was considered by the Hon’ble Tribunal to be a Mine under section 
4(})(vi), of the Mines Act, 1952. Under section 2(a) of the Industrial 
Iisputes Act, this decision alone was sufficient to make the Central Govern- 
ment the appropriate Government in relation to the diapute concerning the 
Bhowra Coke Plant. The other decision of the Hon’ble Tribunal that 
hecnuse this industrial undertaking was one in relation to a controlled 
industry, it was an industry carried on under the authority of the Central 
(fovernment and the appropriate Government for the purpose of section 2(a) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act was the Central Government does not appear 
to be at all necessary. With great respect for the decision of the Hon’ble 
Tribunal, it appears to me that hecause an industry is a controlled industry, 
it was not necessarily one which was carried on by or under the authority 
of the Central Government. Jf that were so, the legislature would have 
found it necessary to enact section 32(a) and (b) of the Industries (Develop- 
ment and Regulation) Act, 1951, for amendment of section 2 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act in respect of controlled industries. In the present case, 
the Bharat Glass Works was not an industry which was carried on by or 
under the authority of the Central Government, although it was a controlled 
industry. The Central Government only exercised the power of control as 
mentioned in Act LXV of 1961 and not otherwise. 


It is, therefore, decided that the order of reference made by the West 
Bengal Government as mentioned ahove was with authority and jurisdiction 
of the Government and is valid in all respects. Tt is also decided that the 
reference to this Tribunal of the industrial dispute in question ia lawful and 


3002 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr I 


tees i i سو س‎ উর a tn a ea a ere a ہیں‎ 
(eres tered Se re es و میسو سے‎ lee ee nn oe چو شور‎ TE ee شش شی‎ এ Re ٠ می"‎ 


valid and the Tribunal has jurisdiction to entertain the reference and is 
competent and even obliged to adjudicate on it. The preliminary objection 
raised hy the Company is, therefore, rejected. 


ا ہے بے کت 


M. 0. 4 1+ 


Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 10th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. ٥. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3224Dis./D/10L-8/55.—25th July 1956—Whereas under تا‎ 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2U00Dis./D/ 
101,-8/55, dated the 18th January 1955, the industrial dispute hetween 
Messrs. Knitting Machineries Syndicate (India), Ltd., 4/1 Kulia Tangra 
2nd Lane, Calcutta-15, having their Head Office at 19911] Harrison Roud, 
Calcutta-7, and their workmen represented by themselves, C/o Shri Radhe- 
shyam Dey, 6 Kulia Tangra 4th Tane, Caleutta-15, and five others, regarding 
the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication 
to the First Industrial Tribunal. 


And whereas the said First Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
Siate Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Knitting Machinories 
Syndicate (India), Ltd., 4/1 Kulia Tangra 2nd Lane, Calcutta-15, having 
their Head Office at 19511 Harrison Road, Calcutta-7, and their workmen 
represented by themselves, C/o Shri Radheshyam Dey, 6 Kulia Tangra 
4th Lane, Calcutta-15, and five others (Case No, VIII 33 of 1951-82). 


BEFORE TITE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 


Sari ہلا‎ 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Judge, First Industrial 
Tribunal. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, by order 
No. 200Dis. /D/10L-8/55, dated 18th January 1955, referred, under sections 
7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Knitting Machineries Syndicate (India), Itd., 4/1 
Kulia Tangra 2nd Lane, Calcutta-16, having their Head Office at 19911] 
Harrison Road, Calcutta-7, and their workmen represented hy themselves, 
C/o Shri Radheshyam Dey, 6 Kulia Tangra 4th Lane, Calcutta-15, and five 
others rewarding the matters specified in the following schedule to this 
Tribunal for adjudication. 


Pari [| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 3003 
Schedule 


(1) Whether the refusal of the Company to allow the 54 workers (numes 
given below) to work was justified ? 


(2) What relief are the workers entitled to? 
Names of workers. 
{1) Shri Sankar Kumar Das Gupta. (28) Sm, Renuka. 


(2) Shn Radheshyam Dey. (29) Sm. Manju Dey. 

(3) Shri Sushil Ch. Sarkar. (30) Sm. Anju Ganguly. 
(4) Shri Chittaranjan Sen. (31) Sm. Chanchala Dey. 
(8) Shri Nirmal Kumar Ghosh. (32) Sim. Bijoya Roy. 

€0) Shri Sushil Dey. (33) Sm. Bina Paul. 

(7) Sm. Rekharani Mallick. (34) Sm. Mukla Sarkar. 
(8) Shri Pulin Behari Bhatta- 2 Sm. Kalyani Kar. 

charyya. (36) Sm. Rama Sen Gupta. 


(9) Shri Gouri Shankar Khan. (37) Sm. Krishna Guha. 
10) Shri Khusi Gopal Kundu. (38) Shri Naren Ch. Jas. 


11) Shri Sailen Roy. (39) Shri Nitai Charan Chakravarti. 
(12) Shri Nihar Ranjan Nag. (40) Shri Dulal Mitra. 

(13) Shri Mukunda Lal Das. (41) Shri Narayan Sarkar. 

(14) Shri Amalendu Dey. (42) Shri Sant: Banerjee. 

(15) Shri Basanta Srimani. (43) Shri Biswanath Das. 

(16) Shri Sunil Kumar Sarkar. (44) Shri ‘Taga Saha. 

(17) Shri Nitva Ranjan Das. (45) Shri Sontosh Sardar. 


(18) Shri Paresh Chandra Dhar, (46) Shri Brindabun Mandal. 
(19) Shri Hari Charan Bhattacharya. (47) Shri Ajit Das. 


(20) Shri Panchanan Datta. (48) Shri Taren Das. 

(21) Shri Raj Kumar Das. (49) Shri Sisir Bose. 

(22) Shri Dipen Tas. (60) Shri Haradhone Mullick. 
(23) Shri Paritosh Paul. (91) Shri Kalipada Mullick. 
(24) Shri Ajit Bhattacharjee. (52) Shri Panchanan Dowari. 
(25) Shri Joydev Sarkar. (53) Shri Asit Mondol. 

(26) Shri Partra Kundu. (54) Shri Mahabir Saha. 


(27) Sm. Chhaya Diswas. 


Notices were issued on both the parties. who filed written statements 
setting forth their respective cases. 


The workmen in the written statement state as follows: 


The Company has been in existence for the last two years. It specia- 
lises in the manufacture of a special type of product, and is the only such 
factory in India. On 20th December 1954, the workmen demonstrated 
against low wage and bad service conditions. The Company thereupon 
refused to allow the workmen to enter the factory premises and also with- 
held the payment of wages and other dues. There was a conciliation pro- 
ceeding over the matter of lock-out effected by the Company, and as the 
conciliation proceedings failed to result in a settlement, the reference of 
the dispute was made by the appropriate (Jovernment {o a Tribunal. The 
workmen pray that the Tribunal should direct the Company to reinstate all 
the workmen and grant them further relief as may be deemed fit and 
proper. 

The Company, in its written statement, states as follows: 


The Company started its factory in April 1953, and the financial year is 
from April to March. It is a hosiery needles manufacturing concern. 
Juring the year 1953-54, the Company suffered a huge loss. The Company 
has in its employ about 54 workers, and wages paid to them were fair and 
adequate in consideration of the capacity and status of the Company. lt 
was noticed for some time that the workers of the production departments 


3004 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Part 1 


Te 


were adopting ‘‘go-slow”’ tactics, resulting in loss of production. |The 
workers, however, 11 a concerted manner were making demands for increase 
of wages while indulging in ‘‘go-slow’’ tactics in the matter of production. 
This conduct of the workmen resulted in financial loss to the Company. In 
view of the unfortunate position of the business and continued ‘‘go-slow’’ 
tactics in production, the Company earnestly asked for co-operation of the 
workers to tide over the crisis, but the workers reserted to acts subversive of 
discipline, for which conduct the Management was compelled to close the 
factory and to terminate the services of the workmen. On 20th December 
1954 the workers after attending their work, suddenly staged and commenced 
a atay-in strike without any reason whatsoever und also without any previous 
notice. After staging the stay-in strike, the workers commenced various 
violent activities inside the factory premises and threatened to damage the 
Company’s plants and machineries. Lives of the personnel of the Manage- 
ment were considered unsafe and insecure. In these circumstances, the 
Management closed the factory and dismissed all the workers by letters, 
dated 21st December 1954, and letters were issued to all the workers indi- 
vidually. The workers on receipt of letters terminating their services on 
account of closure of the factory, received their dues including earned wages 
in full and final satisfaction of their claim. ‘The workers have no dispute. 
The Company was compelled to close the factory and to terminate the 
services of the workmen on account of mala fide and unreasonable conduct 
of the workers and also due to their subversive activities. In the cir- 
cumstances as mentioned above, the closure of the factory and the termina- 
tion of the services of the workers are justified. There was no lock-out 
মিলা by the Company. The workmen are not entitled to any relief in 
this case, 


The appearances for the parties were as follows :— 


For the workers: Shri J. Pandey, Vice-President, A.I.D. Shamnagar 
Works, Union. 


For the Company: Shri N. M. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


The issues that fall for decision in this case are the same ag those 
mentioned in the order of reference. 


AWARD 
DECISIONS 


issues Nos. 1 and 2.—P.W. 1 Chitta Ranjan Sen, one of the workers 
concerned, deposed in this case. He says that the factory was started in 
April 1953 and was closed on 20th December 1954. The factory was, 
therefore, in operation for a little over one and a half years. The witness 
states that there were 54 workers in all. The witness filed Ext. 1 showing 
the names of the workers with their monthly wages. The exhibit shows 
the names of 46 workers. The witness states in evidence that he and the 
other workers want some compensation. In cross-examination, the witness 
adm#s that the earned wages of all the workmen were paid by the Company 
and that there was a talk of compromise and the petition, Ext, A, was filed. 
He was one of the signatories to Ext. A. The statement in Ext. A shows 
that the Company had paid the workers their due wages and wages on 
account of leave period due to them and the workers will have no further 
claim against the Company, and there will be a ‘‘no dispute’? award. At 
the time of the hearing of the case, it was stated by the learned spokesman 
for the workers that all the dues were not paid by the Company. The 
petition, Ext. A, was signed by only five of the workmen. It 1s admitted 
that the factory was closed on 20th December 1954. The workmen, therefore, 
could not be employed by the Company any further. Issue No. 1-28) there- 
fore, answered in the affirmative, 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 3005 
পপ লি 


/ the factory was closed, all the workmen lost their jobs. The workmen 
are entitled to some compensation for loss of service. Considering the fact 
that the workmen were in service only for a year and a half and there was 
an amicable settlement of the matter with some of the workmen, it is 
awarded that the Company do pay to all the workmen three weeks’ wages 
by way of compensation for loss of service. Issue No. 2 is accordingly 


rered. 
anawere M. C. BANERJI, 


Judye, First Industnal Tribunal. 
The 13th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Sie Jae‏ بات سے یں 


ORDER 


No. 8225Dis. /T)/10L-321/56.—26th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
(Jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1474Dis. /)/ 
10L-181/54, dated the 2nd April 1955, the industrial dispute between the 
Vijay Engineering 00.) Lid., 66/1 Dewnagazee 1080) Bally, Howrah, and 
their workers represented by Belur lron & Steel Workers’ Union, 0 
Dewnagazee Road, Bally, Howrah, was referred for adjudication to the Third 
Industrial Tribunal for adjudication; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was filed by Shri Ajit Kumar Samanta, one of the 
employees of the said Company, before the said Tribunal against the said 
(‘ompany alleging that the said Company had punished the said employee 
concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(jovernment ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 
1950, filed by Shri Ajit Kumar Samanta against Messrs. Vijay Engi- 
neering Co., Ltd., in connection with Covernment order No. 1474Dis, 
D /10L-181/54, dated 2nd April 1955. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAI, 


PRESENT: 
SHri J. N. MAITRA,, Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal 


Miscellaneous case No. 37 of 1956 under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. 


Shri Ajit Kumar Samanta, 80 Dewnagazee Road, Bally, ‘ 
owrah ... Complainant, 
VETSUS 


Messrs, ‘Vijay Engineering Co., Ltd., 66/1 Dewnagazee 
Road, Bally, Howrah .. Opposite Party. 


706 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr I 
rr rr ১১১ 

For the complainant: Shri Ajit Kumar Samanta, himself, 

For the Opposite Party: Shri .ظز‎ B, Patel, Manager. 


AWARD 


This is a complaint under section 9:34 of the Industrial Disputes Act 
by the workman Shri Ajit Kumar Samanta. The petitioner alleged that 
after he submitted explanation to the charges he was suspended during the 
pendency of the adjudication proceedings without obtaining permission 
from the Tribunal and thus the Opposite party contravened section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. Ilence, the complaint. 


The Opposite party denied having contravened section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and contended that the complaint was not maintainable. 


DECISION 

The parties filed a joint petition of compromise on 26th June 06 
stating that they had settled the dispute outside the Court and did not 
wish to proceed with the case. There was also an application under section 
33 by the Upposite party Company. The parties prayed in the petition of 
compromise that both the petitions under sections 33 and 994 should be 
dismissed. The petition of compromise is accepted and given effect to. 
The complaint under section 338A is accordingly dismissed. It is awarded 
accordingly. The petition of compromise is made a part of the award. 


JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 
Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
J. MAITRA, 
Judge. 


The 4th July 1996. 
ANNEXURE 


BEFORE SHRI J. N. MAITRA, JUDGE, THIRD INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL 


In the matter of an industrial dispute 
Between | 


Messrs. The Vijay Engineering Co., 
Ltd., 66/1 Dewangazee Road, 
Bally, Howrah 


And 


Their workmen represented by Belur 
Iron and Steel Workers’ Union, 
80 Vewangazee Road, Bally, 
Howrah (vide (Government order 
No. 1474))is./D/101.-181/54 اك‎ 
gud April 1955) 


And 


In the matter of application under 
section 34 filed by the Vijay Engi- 
reering Co., 110.) 66/1 Dewan- 
gazee 1020, Bally, Wowrah, and 
the application under section 33A 
filled by Shri Ajit) Kuma 
Samanta, son of late Satish 
Samanta, village Murga Moria, 
P.O. Agunshi, Howrah. 


Part 1[| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 3007 


With reference to the above petition we beg to inform Your Honour that 
we have settled the dispute outside the Court and we do not wish to proceed 
with the case. Under the circumstances we would request Your Honour 
that the petitions under sections 33 and 3dA should be dismissed. 


The Vijay Engineering Co., Ltd. 
B. ظا‎ PATEL, 
Manager. 
R. K. SINGH, 


for Engineering Association of India. 
Dated the 14th June 1956. 


AJIT KUMAR SAMANTA, 
14-6-56. 
J. MAITRA, 
Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. 8. ]১, MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3222Dis./D/131-14/56.—25th July 1956.—Whereas under the Gov- 
erninent of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 5418))is./D/13L- 
48/55, dated the 17th November 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Calcutta Chromotype 19170011020) 1 Gibson Lane, Calcutta-1, and their 
workmen represented by the Press Employees’ Association, 249B Bowbazar 
Street, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was 
reterred for adjudication to the Second Industria] Tribunal ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Mayadhar Bera, workman of the 
said Company, before the said Tribunal, against the said Company, alleging 
that the said Company had suspended the said workman concerned in auch 
dispute ; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (X1V of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Gov- 
ernment: 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 


hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), as amended by the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, filed by a worker Shri Mayadhar Bera, 
32 Sankaritolla Street, Calcutta-14, of Messrs. Chromotype Limited, 1 
Cibson Lane, Calcutta-1, against the said Company in connection with 
an industrial dispute between the said Company and their workers 
referred to this Tribunal under Government order No. 5415Dis./D/ 
13-38 /55 dated the 17th November 1955. (case No. 95 '33A of 1956). 


3008 YHE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Part I 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: 
Surat G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industral Tribunal 


Appearances: 
For the Petitioner: Shn J. N. Chakraborty. 


Por the Opposite Party: Shri N. K. Mookherjee, Advocate. 


This is an application under section 33A of the [Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, filed by the workman Shri Mayadhar Bera on 15th of May 1956. 


It is the contention of the petitioner that while the original reference as 
mentioned above was pending before this Tribunal, the Opposite party, 
Company, charge-sheeted and suspended him on 1161) May 1956 without 
taking permission from the Tribunal and as such the provisions of section 
33 of the Act were contravened. 


The Company denied having contravened the provisions of section 3: 
and pleaded that charge-sheet was issued to the workman on the ground of 
misconduct and pending enquiry into this charge, he was suspended. It 
thus contended that the application under section 388A was not maintainable. 


Having heard Shri N. K. Mookherjee, learned Advocate for the 
Company and also Shri Jatin Chakraborty, Jearned representative who 
appeared on behalf of the worker and on perusal of the record, I am of the 
view that section 33 has not been violated and consequently the application 
under section 338A is not competent. 


The workman concerned admittedly received a charge-sheet on 1110) May 
1956 and pending completion of that enquiry he was suspended. In the 
circumstances the suspension caunot be regarded as punishment. Section 
89 15 attracted only when the suspension is by way of punishment. In the 
present case it is not so. Suspension was made as a security measure pend- 
ing completion of the enquiry. So it cannot be said that section 33 has been 
violated. That being so, the application under section 383A is not maintain- 
able. I award accordingly. 

Dictated and corrected by me. 

G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


The 12th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
1(. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt Secy. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST ۵ 3009 


বা ০০০০২৮৮7772 
ORDER 


No. 3223) is. /D/130.-14/66.—25th July 1956.—-Wherens under the 
(jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 5415)is,/D/ 
13L-38/55, dated the 17th November 1958, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Calcutta Chromotype Limited, 1 Gibsoh Lane, Calcutta-1, and their 
workmen represented by the Press Employees’ Association, 249B Bowbazar 
Street, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was 
referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial Tmbunal; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri Gopal Chandra Das, 
workman of the said Company, before the said Tribunal, against the said 
Company, alleging that the said Company had suspended the said workman 
concerned 111 such dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 383A of the 
Industria] Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 

Now, therefote, im pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), as amended by the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act, filed by a worker Shri Copal Chandra Das, 
143/B Ananda Palit Road, Entally, Calcutta-15, of Messrs. Chromo- 
type Limited, 1 Cibson Lane, Calcutta-1, against the aforesaid Com- 
pany in connexion with an industrial dispute between the said Company 
and their workers referred to this Tribunal under Covernment 
order No. 5415Dis./D /13L /38/55, dated the 17th November 1955 
(case No. 96/33A Of 1956), 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT : 
Snr G. P. MOKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
Appearances : 
For the petitroner: Shri J. N. Chakraborty. 
For the Opponte party: Shri N, BK. Mukherjee, Advocate. 


This is an application under section 38A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, filed by the workman Shri Gopal Chandra Das on 15th of May 1956. 


It 18 the contention of the petitioner that while the original reference 
as mentioned above was pending before this Tribunal, the Opposite party— 
Company, charge-sheeted and suspended him on 1161) May 1956 without 
taking permission from the Tribunal and as such the provisions of section 33 
of the Act were contravened. 


The Company denied having contravened the provisions of section 33 
und pleaded that the charge-sheet was issued to the workman on the ground 
of misconduct and pending enquiry into this charge, he was suspended. 


0 on contended that the application under section 338A was not maintain- 
able. 


Having heard Shri N. K. Mukherjee, learned Advocate for the Com- 
pany, and also Shri Jatin Chakraborty, learned representative who appeared 
on behalf of the worker, and on perusal of the record, I am of the view 


that section 33 has not been violated and consequently the application under 
section 3.4 18 not competent. 


3010 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 [Parr I 


The workman concerned admittedly received a charge-sheet on 1161) May 
1956 and pending completion of that enquiry he was suspended. In ‘the 
circumstances the suspension cannot be regarded as punishment. Section 33 
is attracted only when the suspension 18 by way of punishment. In the 
present case it 18 not so. Suspension was made as a security measure 
fag ee completion of the enquiry. So it cannot be said that section 33 

as been violated. That being so, the application under section 3838۸ is not 
maintainable. 


I award accordingly. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second. Industrial Tribunal. 
The 12th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 14 و‎ ٦ July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 71 
13L-38/55, dated the 218 February 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Calcutta Chromotype Limited, 1 Gibson Lane, Calcutta-1, and 
their employees, Shri G. D. Roy and Shri J. R. Bhattacharjee, represented 
by the Press Employees’ Assoriation, 24917 Bowbazar Street, Calcutta, 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for 
adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted 6) the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown 1n the annexure hereto, 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Calcutta 
Chromotype Limited, 1 Cibson Lane, Calcutta-1, and their employees, 
Shri C. D. Roy and Shri J. R. Bhattacharjee, represented by the Press 
Employees’ Association, 249B Bowhbazar Street, Calcutta. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAI, 


PRESENT: 
_. ভিলা G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


For the employee: Shri H. L. Roy, Pleader. 
For the Company: Shn N. K. Mukherjee, Advocate. 

The above industria] dispute regarding the matter mentioned راز‎ the 
schedule below has been referred to this Tribunal for its adjudication by 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, under order No, 7121))5. | 


D/181-38/55, dated the 218 February 1956. 


Schedule to the order of reference 


Whether the termination of services of Shri G. D. Roy and Shri J. R. 
Bhattacharjee was justified? What relief are they entitled ۶ 


Part 11 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 3011 


سے سے سیہمسمسسچج ججچمسسہسسیں سس سس تسس سے س”تپتےجچمسىپچےم٭سيےمجچت سے جج سج تی٣‏ ڈیڈ رشں سس سس سس سے سس سسستۓ ‏ 
AWARD‏ 


Fa 

The present dispute relates to the termination of services of Shri G. J). 
Roy and Shri J. R. Bhattacharjee who were employed at the relevant time 
in the Calcutta Chromotype Limited as supervisors. Their services were 
terminated with effect from 2nd November 1955. The case of these two 
employees in short is that the alleged termination of their services was 
unjustified and mala fide. So, they claim reinstatement with back wages. 


In reply, the Company has contended that there were sufficient grounds 
for termination of their services. As a result of enquiry held hy the 
management they were found guilty of negligence and inefficiency in the 
discharge of duties. Hence they had to be dismissed. 


A preliminary objection has been raised also on behalf of the Company 
and it is that these two employees who were employed as supervisors were 
not workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and were not, therefore, entitled to any relief under the said Act. 


This leads the Tribunal necessarily to take up the preliminary objection 
first. Obviously this objection touches the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. 
If the two employees who are concerned in the present case are found ٥ 
be not workmen, the dispute under reference ceases to be an _ industrial 
dispute. In such an event the employees cannot get the aid of the Act, 
nor can the Tribunal adjudicate upon the dispute, despite the reference 
mude hy the Government. It has been repeatedly kala. that in deciding 
whether a particular employee is a workman or not, designation does not 
matter and is not of great moment. What is of importance is the nature 
of his duties. The relevant question is whether he performs clerical or 
manual work so as to place him under category of “workman” under the 
Act. The approach should, therefore, be not from the angle of testing 
whether the employee is an officer but from that of examining the duties 
to be performed by the employee and deciding whether they are in the 
main clerical or manual. This is ultimately a question of fact. At hest 
it is one of mixed facts and law. Now let me approach the question froin 
the standpoint of the duties of these two employees. Admittedly they 
are employed as supervisors of two departments of this Company. In_ 9 
connection I am to observe that the question whether an employer is a 
supervisor Or exercises directional or controlling power, supplies a 
negative test of a workman which cannot be conclusive. I shall now 
discuss the duties and responsibilities which have emerged from the 
evidence. Both the employees have examined themselves in this case. 
(m the side of the Company the Managing Director has deposed and some 
documents have been admitted in evidence. ] have সি scrutinised 
the evidence. On the evidence it is clear that these two employees were 
supervisors in two separate departments of the Company and their main 
duties were of supervisory nature. Not only they had to inspect the 
works of the workers but had to see also that the works were done properly 
and according to specification. The evidence further indicates that they 
had to make complaints if the work of any workman employed under them 
was found to be defective. So, on a careful consideration of the materials 
placed before it and bearing in mind the test laid down ina_ series of 
cases, the Tribunal holds that these two employees cannot be considered 
to be workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act. They 
were responsible for supervision and proper administration of the depart- 
ments under their charge. They had under them a set of workers whose 
works they not only supervised but whom they controlled and directed 
also. Certainly they had duties and responsibilities of a much higher 
order than that of a workman. Of course, it has transpired from the 
evidence that in course of supervision and inspection the employee 


3012 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST’, 1956 [Part } 
|. ৯৯ 


Shri G. D. Roy was required to demonstrate to the workers %111)10700. under 
him hew the ‘work was to be executed and that the employer Shri ,۰ 
Bhattacharjee had to mix up somelimes the colours for preparing different 
shades therefrom. ‘The learned lawyer for the employees relying on the 
same has voiced an argument that this clearly showed that these two 
employees had to do also manual work and as such they came within the 
meaning of ‘‘workman”’. But it js extremely difficult to accept this 
argument. It might be that in course of supervision and inspection they 
had to do such work. But it was only part of their duties as supervisors 
to see that the work was properly done and done by the workers 8601 011) 

to specification. JX does not mean that they had to do manual work 
themselves. If im the course of supervision and inspection they had _ 10 
do anything by their own hands by way of testing or demonstrating, ا‎ 
cannot be said to be manual work. It was a part of their duties as 
supervisors. Next it was argued that these employees had to do clerical 
duties also as they had to write requisition repotts for materials and 0১1৭0 
reports of daily outturn and production, etc. It is true no doubt that 
they had to write such reports daily. But in the view of the Tribunal, 
the clerical duties which they performed were insignificant as compared 
with the importance of their works and was only ancillary to their main 
duties as supervisors. Then again, it has transpired from the evidence of 
the Managing Director that for such clerical duties half an hou® was 
required daily. Lastly, it was contended that as these two employees had 
no power to dismiss any worker employed under them, they cannot be 
deemed to be invested with the powers of supervision and control in the 
day-to-day works of the departments in which they were employed. It is 
now well settled that non-conferment of powers to appoint, suspend and 
dismiss any worker does not detract from the supervisory powers the 
employees had over the workers in the departments. If any authority 2১ 
needed for this I may cite the cases reported in 1954(11) L.L.J. 457 nd 
1955(11) L.L.J. 595. The preliminary objection raised on behalf of the 
Company therefore succeeds. 


In- the result the Tribunal comes to the conclusion that these two 
employees concerned cannot be considered to be workmen within the 
meaning of the Act, the nature of their duties in the main being neither 
clerical nor manual. That being so, the present dispute between the 
parties does not fall within the ambit of the expression ‘‘industrial dispute” 
as defined in section 2(k) of the Act. Accordingly the employees concerned 
are not entitled to invoke the aid of the Act nor has the Tribunal jurisdic- 
tion to adjudicate on the issue referred to it, despite the reference made by 
the Government. In this view of the matter, it is not necessary for the 
Tribunal to enter into the merits of the case or to express any opinion 
regarding the termination of services of these two employees. 


This is my award. 


Dretated and corrected by me. 
G. P. MUKHERJEHK, Judge. 
11-7-56. 
G. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 11th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


Calcutta 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PART LA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
républished. 

IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF 
INDIA, CALCUTTA. 


Appeal No. Cal. 122 of 1954 


Messrs Shalimar Wood Products, Howrah ... Appellants, 
versus 
Messrs [59010] Mazdoor Union, Howrah and ors. ... Respondents. 


In the matter of an appeal against the award of Shri J. N. Moitra, Judge, 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, made on 17th March 1954, in respect 
of an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 29th March 1966 
PRESENT: 


Suzr 8. B. SINGH, President. 
Sunt V. যে. DIKSHITULU, Member. 


Appearances: 


For the Appellants: Shri S. C. Sen, Advocate, with Shri Asoke Sen Gupta, 
General Manager of the Company. 


For the Respondents: Shri Ram Sen, Secretary, Katkal Mazdoor Union. 


State: West Bengal. 


Industry: Miscellaneous. 


DECISION 


This is an appeal from on award of the Third Industrial Tribunal, West 
Bengal, dated the 17th March 1954, published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
April 8, 1954. By Government order No. 592Dis./D/12L-5/52, dated the 
23rd February 1953, the following 9 issues were referred for adjudication to 
the Third Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal :— 

(1) To what relief the workers are entitled for the period of their 
unemployment between 26th September 1952 to 9th November 
1962? 


(2) Pay and dearness allowance. 
(3) Leave. 

(4) Permanency. 

(5) Retiring benefits. 

(6) Abolition of contract system. 
(7} Bonus for 1962-63. 


306 


THE CALCUTPA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 


(8) 10 what relief the workers mentioned, in attached list ure entitled 
for their non-employment hy the’ management? 


(9) To what relief the workers are entitled for forced idleness for two 
days in a weekP 


The appeal is by the employers and is directed only against the findings on 
issues Nos. two and eight. Issue No. two was ‘‘pay and dearness allowance’, 
and issue No. eight was ‘‘to what relief the workers mentioned im attached 
list are entitled tor their non-employment by the management’. 


This Company pays consolidated wages to its workers. Prior to the 
dispute the consolidated wage (pay and dearness allowance) of the unskilled 
category of workmen was Rs. 2 per day and that of the skilled category of 
workmen Rs. 2-4 per day. The learned Tribunal increased the rate of each 
category by annas 4. To the cight workmen mentioned in the award out 
of 44 workmen named in the order of reference, the learned Tribunal below 
has granted three months’ consolidated wages as retrenchment compensation. 
The Company has challenged only these parts of the award. Therefore, it 
ig unnecessary to refer to the other issues. 

The first question tor decision is whether the increase of annas 4) in the 
40050110980. wage of each category was justified. The appellant is an 
Engineering concern. The learned Tribunal relied upon the observations ot 
the Central Pay Commission and also on the findings of Major Engineering 
Tribunal. For an unskilled worker in the Engineering Industries in West 
Bengal, a minimum basic wage of Ks. 30 per month or Rs. 1-2-6 per day 
was fixed by Major Engineering Tribunal, while dearness allowance at 
Ks. ۵1 per mensem was fixed by the Second Engineering Tribunal. The 
total wages of an unskilled worker thus came to 118. 61 per month. In a 
month of 26 working days the daily wage would amount to nearly 
Rs. 2-5-3. Against this the learned ‘Tribunal below has fixed the con- 
solidated daily wage of Rs. 2-4 only and certainly it was not wrong in doing 
so. This new wage comes to Rs. 58-8 per month of 26 working days and is 
still Jess by Rs. 2-8 than the minimum wage fixed by the two Tribunals. 
The difference of annas 4 in the rate of unskilled and skilled categories can 
by no means be said to be at all high. These wages are, rather, lower than 
the minimum basic wages payable for the two categories of workmen in the 
industrial concerns generally in the region. 


The only argument advanced by the appellant’s learned lawyer is that 
the cost of living index in 1950, ashen the Second Industrial Tribunal fixed 
the dearness allowance of the unskilled category at Rs. 31 was 350 and now 
it is J10. But, he could not place any material before us to prove that it 
was 80. This dispute as appears irom the order of reference arose in 1952. 
The appellant should have placed before us the cost of living index figures for 
the years 1950, 1952 and ate for year 1954, when this award was made. On 
the material on record before us no case for interference with the award has 


been made out. 


Regarding compensation to the eight retrenched employees who had 
not been taken in by the Company, the only point urged on behalf of the 
employer is that an award of retrenchment compensation at an ad hoc rate 
of three months’ pay to each of the workmen irrespective of the length of 
service of each is against the well recognised principles. The learned Counsel 
concedes that there is no material on record from which the length of 
service of each of these eight workmen could be ascertained. He contended 
himself by simply saying that none of these eight workmen had put in 
more than four years of service. Continuing the Counsel argued that the 
retrenchment in question had taken place prior to the passing of Act No. 43 
of 1953 and that the Act had no application He had to concede that in 
addition to compensation for their past services workmen were entitled to 
some compensation for future unemployment, according to well recognised, 
pringiples of retrenchment compensation. Moreover, added thé Counsel, 
even under the said Act a retrenched workman was only entitled to com- 
peneation relief equivalent to 15 days’ wages for each year of completed 
service. We may at once say that the said Act only recognises the 
principles which governed the grant of retrenchment compensation laid 
down in a number of decisions of this Tribunal ج2‎ to their incorporation 
in the Act, vide 1955, II LLJ. 280, where it has been observed that the 
Act has not fixed a ceiling. In these circumstances, even if we attach any 


,mportance to the oral statement made at the bar on behalf of the employer 


that the length of service of none of the eight workmen was more than four 
years, we are of the opinion that three months’ pay by way of compensation 
for future unemployment is by no means high. And, if length of servicé, 
whatever it be, were taken into account, this amount could not be said to 
be excessive by way of retrenchment compensation which included compen- 


sation for past service along with compensation for " future unemploy- ° 


ment. Tastly, the learned. Congel for the appellant pleaded that the. 
arned lower Tribunal could not’ award the respondents relief-gn ad hoc 
889 1n an arbitrary way’ gs had been doné by it. He was unable to*hatiafy 
us that‘ any injustice or prejudice had been caused te the apptllant. In 


[Parr IA 


Eee 


Part [A] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 307 


777৮-৮২-৮০, EE eee 


these circumstances, we find ae reason to interfere with the award-of the 
ic 


learned Tribunal below, w 


we,gonfirm. The appeal is, therefore, din- 


missed with costs to the Respondent Union which is fixed at Rs. 60. 


Ministry of Natural Resources and Scientific 
Research. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


New Delhi, the 23rd May 1956. 


No. لاس ان‎ 54.—In exercise of the powers 
0 ۲۷۸ ‘by section 5 of the Mines and Minerals 
(R@culation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII 
of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Mineral Conces- 
sion Rules, 1949, namely :— 


Rule 10 of the said rules shall be renumbered 
as sub-rule (1) of that rule and to the sub- 
rule as so renumbered, the following sub- 
rule shall be added, namely :— 


(2) The provisions of rule 6 shall, so far 
us may be, apply to the renewal of a 
certificate of approval’’. 


New Delhi, the 10th February 1956 


No. MITI-152(32) /54.—In exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 5 of the Mines and Minerals 
(Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII of 
1948), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Mineral 
Concession Rules, 1949, namely :— 


Imethe said rules— 


(1) In Schedule I, after item 8, the following 
entry shall be made, namely :— 


To be fixed by negotiation tbetween the 
licensee/lessee and “9. Oil Shale the 
State Government’’. 


(2) The existing item 9 shall be renumbered 
as item ۰+ 

(3) ‘In Schedule JI after class 12 and the 
entries relating thereto, the following 
shall be added, namely :— 


“Class 13. Coal, lignite and oil shale ... 50 tons.” 


(4) In sub-clause (b) of the proviso to clause 
(12)+01 sub-rule (1) of rule 23 and in sub- 
lause (b) of the proviso to clause (213) 
of rule 46, for the words “royalty at the 
rates specified in the First Schedule’ 
wubstitute “royalty in accordance with 
Schedule ۰ 
(5) In clause (iii) of sub-rule (1) of rule 23 and 
in clause (iv) of rule 46, fom the words 
“royalty specified in the First Schedule’ 
substitute “royalty in accordance with 
Schedule I”. . 
(6) Th clause 5 of sub-rule (1) of rule 41, for 
the words ‘‘at+the rate gpecified in the 
First Schedule™ substrigete “in accordance 


with, Schedule ٠ 


R. N& VASUDEVA, 105. Seby. 


S. B. SINGH, President. 
V. N. DIKSHITULU, Member. 


New Delhi, the 30th June 1956 


No. MII-152(27)/55.—In exercise: of the powers 
conferred by section 5 of the Mines and Miner@ls 
(Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIIT of 
1948), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the,Mineral 000 
cession Rules, 1949, namely :— 


In the said rules— 


(1) after clause (v) of sub-rulé (1) of rule 23, 
the following clause shall« be inserted, 
namely :— 


“(v-a) The licensee shall, without delay, 
report to the State Government the 
discovery, in the area comprised in his 
license, of any mineral not specified in 
the license, and shall not undertake 
any prospecting operations in respect of 
such mineral without obtaining per- 
mission of the State Government for 
inclusion! thereof in the license. If 
he fails to apply for such ‘permission 
within three months from the dis- 
covery of the mineral the State Gov- 
ernment may give a license in respect 
of such mineral to any other person.” 


(2) After item (ix) of sub-rule @) of rule 23, 
the following item shall be added, 


namely :— 
(x) Facilities to be given by the licensee for 


working other minerals in the licensed 
urea or adjacent areas’’. 


G. C. JERATH, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th August 1985 


No, MII-169(4) /55.—In exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 5 of the Mines afid Minerals 
(Regulation and Development) Act, (LITT pt 
1948), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Mineral Concession 
Rules, 1949, namely سس‎ 


In class 9 of Schedule II to the said , rules, 
after the word “emery” the+ word “gros- 
sularite’’ shall be inserted. 


M. MALBOTRA, Unde Secy. 


New Delhi, the lst February 1956 


No, MIJ-159(15)/55.—In exercise of 3 "7۵8 
conferred by section 5 of the Midés and 1٤58 
(Regulation and Development) Act, 4948 (LITT of 
1948), the ‘Central Governmént hereby makes the 
following amendment in 'the Mineral Conces- 
sion Rules, 1949, namely :— wes 


In rule 58 of the sid rules, for the words’ 
“Tmperieal Bank of 10197: the words “Stgte 
Bank of Indiat shall be substituted. 

نزلا 


: Cat ERATH, Under Secy. 


108 THE CALCUTTA’ GAZETTE. AUGUST 2. 1956 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE 


DIVISION) 


New Delhixethe 28th June 1966. 
NOTIFICATIONS 


INGOME-TAxX ESTABLISHMEN1S 


No, 96.—In 80095888800 of items 11 to 13 of 
this Munistry notification No. 192-Income-tax 
Establishments, dated the 19th August 1955, and 
also this Ministry notification No. 14-Income-tax 
Establishments, dated the 2nd March 
1956, the undermentioned officers ۵٥ 
been configmed as Assistant Commissioners of 
Ingome-tax with -effect from the dates shown 
agamst their names :— 


Serial Name, Date of confirmation. 
No. 
i ন্ট * * 
5 Shri BeK. Bagchi 18-5-1955 
٠ * * a 
7 Shri K. 4), Banerjee, No. I 18-5-1955 


No. 97.—Shri G. Misra, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner, is confirmed as Assistant Cominis- 
sioher of Income-tax with effect from the 18th 
May 19598 


N. MUKHERJEE, Under Secy.‏ .×ظ 


INCOME-TAx 


New, Delhi, the 17th April 1956. 


No, 31 (55/44/56 I.T.).—In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 5 of 


[Parr TA 


1118, Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), 
jhe Central Government js pleased to appoint— 
(a) : ' ٠ 


(b) Shri §. 0. Jain to be a Commissioner of 
Income-tax with effect from the  fore- 
noon of the 4th day of April 1966. 


B. V. MUNDKUR, Uaider Secy. 


COVERNMENT OF PUNJAB 


Home Department 


NOTIFICATION 
Dated Chandigarh, the 9th July 1956 


No. 2948-PB-56/11382.—Whereas the Govern- 
ment of Punjab is satisfied that the story headad 
‘“Moiselle’’ appearing in the issue of the 1/۸, 
‘Hindi monthly of Khanna, district Ludhiana, for 
the month of January 1956, printed by 
Shri Narendra Dhir at the Kranti Press, Khanna, 
district Ludhiana, and published by him atydhe 
said Kranti Press, Khanna, contains matter which 
is deliberately and maliciously intended to out- 
rage the religious feelings of the Sikh citizens of 
India by insulting their religion and religious 
beliefs and the publication of which is punishable 
under section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code 
(Act XLV of 1860); 


2. Now, therefore, on the abovestated 6 
and in exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 99-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
Act V of 1898), the Government of Punjab hereby 
eclares to be forfeited to Government every copy 
of the said issue of the said Mast and all other 
documents containing copies, reprints and transla- 
es of or extracts from the said issue of the eaid 

astt, 


By order of the Governor of Punjeb, 


R. 7. KAPUR, 
Home Secy. to the Govt. of Putijab. 


Registered No. 0207 


Galrutta 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


OFFICE OF THE PRINCIPAL, SANSKRIT COLLEGE, CALCUTTA 


Caloutta, the 28th June 1956, 


Oorrigenda to the list of awards out of the Endowment Funds administered by the Principal. on the results of the Title 


Examinations of the years 1952 and 1953. 


1952 
The 3nd entry. 
@oll No. Student. Pupil of— Subject, 
.. Niranjan Swarup Brah Pt. Purandas Astatirtha, 15 Mohun. Ny 
22 জবস রর bagan Lane, Caloutta. = 
1٦ substituted by— 
Nav. 33 .. Surendra Chandra Cha- Pt. Jamm: Kanta Tarkatirtha, Govt. Naya (Kha) 
ا٣۰‎ Sanskrit Tol, Navadwip. 
The 4th entry. 


.. Niranjan Swarup Brah. Pt. Purandas Astetirtha, 15 Mohun- Darshan 
2-02 سم‎ : bagan Lane, Calcutta. 


Ie eubstituted by— 


: Arabinde Bhattacharyya Pt. Srijib Nyayatirtha, Bhatpara Sankhya 
پت‎ oe Sanskrit College, Bhatpara, 24. রি 


Parganas 


(Ig the 5th entry the subject should be “Vedanta (GA)"” instead of “Darshan’’, 


The 7th entry, 
.« Niranjan Swarup Brah- Pt. Purandas Astatirtha, 15 Molin. ..Darehan 
ao ee : bagan Lane, (4১০০ 
de 8508658500৮ 


Kavye- Pt. 11৩৭7505581 Tarkaturtha; Sans. Bankhye 
Cal 600 Manindransth ا‎ yatyy, 21 Bhypen Hoy Road, . 
Bohala, 


Stipend 885৫ prize. 
-+ Darbbangs مزا‎ of Re. 19, 


নী Ditto. 
Dewan Kruhna Kanta 
تد یہت‎ 
و‎ veo 
Fund). 
ad Diteo. 


+ Burdwatt Prive of Rs. 40. 


ae Ditto, 


452 


Rell No. 


Cal. 216 


Cal. 229 


Cal. 260 


Oal, 217 


Cal. 216 


Cal. 227 


THE CALUUTTA 42196174145 JULY® 2,, 0ا‎ 


Student. 


Niranjan Swarup Brah- 
machari. 


.. Rabindra Kumar Bhatta. 


charyys. 


.. ‘Ganganarayan Bhatte- 


charyya. 


-» Srmad Bhaktiprakash 
Brahmachari. 


আরা 


.. Niranjan Swarup Brah- 
machari. 


1963 
The 3rd entry. - 


Pupil of — Subject. 


MM. Kalipada Tarkacharya, Sanskrit Darshan 
College, Calcutta. 


Is substituted by— 


Pt. Tridib Ranjan Kabya Vy.-Tarka- Sankhya bee 


tirtha, 43 Maniktala Main Road, Cal- 
cutta. 


The 6th eniry. 


Pt. Bhupendranath Smurititirtha, Smriti“Ga’’ ৬ 


Sanskrit College, Calcutta. 


Ie substituted by— 


MM, Kalipada Tarkacharyya, Sanskrit Sadharan Darshan 
College, Calcutta. 


The 8th entry. 


MM. Kalipada Tarkacharyya, Sanskrit Darshan 
College, Caloutta. 


2 14 substituted by— 


.. Priyansuprabal Upadhyay Pt. Manmathanath Tarkatirtha, Sans- Sankhya 


krit College, Caloutta. 


In the 9th entry subject should be “Nyaya (Gha)” instead of ‘‘Darshan '': 


. ah 


Entry No. 1 to be cancelled. 


ADHYAPAKA VRITTI. 
1962 


ne Entry No. 3. 


Pt. Purandes Astatirtha, 15 Mohunbagan lano, Calcutta—Maharaja Burdwan Prize of Res. 45. 


18 substituted by— 


Pt, Benode Behari Panchatirtha—Maharaja Burdwan Prize of Rs. 45. 


1963. 


Entry No. 4(a) iscancelled and and entry No. 4(b) is renumbered as 4(a). 


[Parr IB 


Stipend and prize. 


Maharaja Burdwan Prize 
of Res, 40, 


Ditto. 


Maharaja Darbhanga 
Prize of Ra. ۰ 


Ditto. 


Dewan Krishna Kanta 
Nandi Stipend of Ra; 7 
(out of Swarnamayee 
Fund). 


Ditto. 


P. C. LAHIRI, Principal. 


Registered No. C207 


Oalrittta 


(68211 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PART II—Advertisements, Notices 
Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, ote., in the 
“Calcutta Cazette’’ (Part ৪8), 
1, Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in itself. 
2, Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type- 


written below the signature. 


3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue ef ‘Calcutta Gazette’ shall be received by Publication 
Sales Office at New Seoretariat Buildings, 1 Hastings Street, Caloutta, up te 11 a.m. on Saturday and at Wead Office 


at Allpore up to 12 noon on Monday. 


4. All costs shall be paid In advance and deposited along with the Manueoripts. 


6. Manusoripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, 
WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


lloation of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 


(PUBLICATION BRANCH), 


The Press shall not be held responsible for delay in 
inetructions 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION 


{n the matter of indian Companies Act, 1966, 
And 
In the matter of Industry Publishers Ltd. 


NOTICE is راہ هطا‎ given that a petition for the winding 
up of the সাধিত Company by the High Court at 
Calcutta wos on the 16th day of July 1956 presented to 
the said Court by Raghunath Dutt & Sons Ltd. of 
No. 32B, Hrahourne یل‎ Calcutta, a creditor of the said 
Company and that the said petition is directed to be 
heard before the Court on the 20th day of August 1956; 
and any creditor or contributory of the said Company 
desirous of opposing an order for winding up of the said 
Cumpany under the above Act should appear at the time 
of hearmg by himself or his Attorney or Advocate for that 
purpose; and a copy of the petition will be furnished to 
any creditor or contributory of the said Company requir- 
ing the samo, by the undersigned, on payment of 
prescribed charges for the sume. 


Dated the 24th day of July 1956. 


AJIT KUMAR DEY, 
Attorney for the petitioner, 
6 Old Post Offica Street, 
Calcutta. 


h 


Note.. -Rulo 57 provides that any person who intends to 
appear on the Dene of the said petition must serve on 
or send by post to the abovenamed notice in writing of 
his intention so to do. The notice must state the namo 
and address of the person, or, if a firm, the name and 
address of tho firm ond must be sorved, or, if posted, 
must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above. 
named not Jater {han two clear days before the 20th day 
01 August 1956, 


4 


(6921) 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 


ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1988 (Act ॥ of 1066), 
4 And 
in the matter of Damodardas Brijmohan Private Ltd. 


NOTICE 1s hereby given that a petition for the winding 
up ot the said Company by the High Court at Calcutta 
was on the 16th day of July 1956 presented to the said 
Court by Messrs. Bhartia Sona Ltd., a creditor of the said 
Company (hereinafter referred to as the petitioner) and 
that the said petition is directed to be heard before the 
Court on the 20৮1) day of August 1956; and any creditor 
or contributory of the said Company desirous of opposing 
an order for the winding up of the said Company under 
the above Act should appear at the time of hearing by 
hiniself or his Attorney or Advocate for that purpose an 
a copy of the eee will be furnished to any creditor or 
contnbutory of the said Company requiring the same, by 
spa undersigned, on payment of the prescribed charge for 

1e same. 


Dated the 24th July 1956. 


KHAITAN & CO., 
Attorneys for the petitioner, 
1B Old Post Office Street, 

Calcutta. 


Note.—Rule 58 provides that any person who intends to 
appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve on 
or send by post to the abovenamed Attorneys, notice in 
writing of his intention so to do. The notice must state 
the name and address of the parson, or, if a firm, the 
name and address of the firm, and must be served, or, if 
posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach 
the abovenamed Attorneya not later than two clear days 
before the 2Qth day of August 1956, 


)021-1) 


348 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1966 


[Part If 


স্পা EE>~=_=_=_L_L_____—_— 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 30 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 
posts from Indian citizens and persons migrated from 
Pakistan with intontion of permanently settling in India 
or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 
French possessions in India. Upper age-limits relaxable 
by 5 years for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
candidates and up to 45 vears for displaced persons from 
Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 
No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and 
will in no case be relaxed boyond three years, Particulars 
and application forms from Secretary, Union Public 
Service Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. 
Requests for forms must specify name of post and should 
be accompanied by self-addressed unstamped envelope for 
each post at least of size 9৯4৮ indicating thereon name 
of post for which forms are required. Closing date for 
receipt of application with treasury receipt or crossed 
Indian Postal Order for Rs. 7-8 (Rs. 1-14 for Schedaled 
Castes and Tribes), 25th August 1956 (8th September 1956 
for applicants from abroad). Commission may remit 
genuinoly indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ fee. 
Separate application with separate fee required for each 
post. Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper if form 
not available and deposit fee with local Indian Embassy. 
If required, candidates must appear for personal interview. 


1. One permanent Director, B.C.G. Vaccine Laboratory, 
Guindy, Ministry of Health.—Other thinge being equal, 
preference given to Scheduled Castes/Trbes candidate. 
Pay:—Hs. 1,150—50—1,550. Private practloe of any kind 
including laboratory and consultant practice not allowed.— 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified ond experienced 
candidate. Age:—Between 35 and 45 years. elaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifications—Essentilal :— 
(i) A medical qualification included in one of the schedules 
to Indian Medical Council Act, 1033. (ii) Post-graduate 
training in Bactoriology. (iii) About 10 years’ experience 
in Laboratory work including about 5 years’ work in 
Bacteriology including research, and about 5 years’ 
administrative experience in responsible position. Qeaali- 
fications relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of 
candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


2. One Lady Lecturer-cum-Warden, Government 
Hamidia College, Bhopal, under the Government of Bhopal. 
—Post temporary at present but likely to become perma- 
nent. Other things being equal, preference may be given 
to Scheduled Caste candidates. Those who applied in 
response to Commission’s advertisement No. 32, 1955, item 
No. 12, need not apply again. Pay:—fRs. 15.460 
20—450. Higher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:—Between 30 and 45 years. 
Relaxable for Government servants. Qualifications— 
Essentilal:—(i) At least Second Class Master’s Degree in 
Hindi or in Enghsh with working knowledge of Hindi. (ii) 
Teaching experience up to degree standard. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


3. Twenty-five Geologists (Junior) in Geological Survey 
of india, Ministry of Natural Resources and Scientific 
Researoh.—Posts temporary but likely to continue. Five 
posta reserved for Scheduled Castes candidates, and three 
for Scheduled Tribes candidates, if such suitable candidates 
available, otherwise all posts treated unreserved. Candi- 
dates who have already applied in response to Commis- 
sion’s advertisement No. 51 which appeared on 10th 
December 1955, need not apply again. Pay:—For direct 
recruits; ls. 350 —350—380--980. 30590 %, B.—30— 
770— ). For persons in continuous Government 
employ since 15th July 1831: Re. 400—50—550—50/2 600 
—90—-700—50 / 2—-750—50—1,200. Pay of persons already 
in Government service will be fixed under the rules. For 
athers, higher initial pay within the scale of Rs. 350-0 
to specially qualified and experienced candidates. Agei— 
Below 35 years. Relaxable for Government servants. 
Qualifications—Essentiati—(i) M.Sc. or equivalent Honours 
Degree in Geology of recognised University or Diploma in 
Geology of Indian School of Mines and Applied Geolagy, 
Dhanbad, (ii) About 5 years’ experience in any branch of 
Geology, including geological field work. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commiassion’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


4. One Junior Scientific Officer (Psychology) in Defence 
Science Organisation, Ministry of Defence.—Post perma- 
nent. Applicants may be considered also for prospective 
vacancies (permanent or temporary) in more or Jess the 
same grade and for analogous posts in the same or other 
Departments. Pay:—-Rs, 275—25—500—E. B.—30—650— 
BK, B.—30—800. Higher initial pay to specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age:— Below ) years. 
Qualifications—Essential:—(i) At least Second “Class 
Master’s or equivalent Honours, Degree in Paychology of 
recognised University. (ii) Minimum experience oF ns 
year in Paychological Laboratory with intimate knowledge 
of setting up, handling and maintenance of psychological 
ےس تج‎ Qualifications relaxable at 08 

18۳6۸0 in care of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


5. One Deputy Development Officer (Metais-F oundries) 
in Development Wing of the Ministry of Commerce and 
industry.—Post temporary, but likely to continue. Other 
things being equal, preference given to Scheduled Castes / 
Tribes candidate. Pay:—Ra. 600—40—1,000—1,000— 
1,050—1 ;Q50—1,100-—1,100—1,150. Higher initial pay to 
specially: qualified and experienced candidate. Age:— 
Below 40 years. Relaxable for Government servants. 
Quatifigations—Essential:—(i) At least Second Class Degree 
in Metallurgy or Mechanical Engineering of recognised 
University or equivalent qualification. (ii) About 5 years’ 
training and experience in ferrous foundries manufacturing 
hght and heavy castings; or Equivalent experience in 
Government Technical Development Departments which 
deal with planning, development and production problems 
of foundry industry. Qualifications relaxable at Commis- 
sion’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise well- 
qualified, 


CORRIGENDUM 


fa) One Deputy Development Officer (Metals-F oundries) 
and (b) One Deputy Development 00087 (Metalse-Non- 
ferrous) in the Development Wing of the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry.—In partial modification of item 
No. 8 of Commission’s advertisement No, 23 which appeared 
on 9th June 1956, it is hereby notified that recruitment to 
one post of Deputy Development Officer (Metals-Non- 
ferrous) only will be made on the basis of that advertise- 
ment, 


INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, KHARAGPUR 


Advertisement No. 7/56 


APPLICATIONS (in duplicate) invited for under- 
mentioned posts from Indian citizens and persons migrated 
from Pakistan with intention of permanently sottling in 
India or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese posses- 
sion in India. Higher initial pay for specially qualified 
and রা candidates. Particulars and application 
forms from Registrar, Indian Institute of Technology, 
Kharagpur. Requests for forms must specify name of post 
and should be accompanied by self-addressed unstamped 
ا‎ at least of size 0৮ ১৫47 indicating thereon name of 
post for which forms are required. Closing date for 


receipt of applications together with Treasury receipt or 
crossed Indian Postal Order for Rs. 7-8 ৪, 1-314 for 
Scheduled Castes and Tribes), mark payable to 


বা Union Public Service Commission at New Delhi 
Post Office, 18th August 1956 (lst September 1956 for 
candidates abroad). nion Public Service Commission may 
remit yenuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ 
fee. (‘andidates abroad may apply on plain paper if forma 
are not available and deposit fee with local Indian Embassy, 
If required, candidates must appear for personal interview. 
Qualifications relaxable in the case of candidates otherwise 
well-qualifiod. Applications should be sent to Registrar, 
Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. Appointment 
can be terminated according to rules. 


(A) Two Assistant Professors.—QOne in Geology (post 
rmanent) and one in (16011759808 (post temporary but 
ikely to be made permanent), 


Pay;—Rs. 
1,100—1,150. 


——_ 


600—40—1,000—1,000—1,050—1,050—1,100— 


Age:—Between 30 and 45 years (50 years for Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes), Age-limits will be strictly 
adhered to save in exceptional circumstances and will in no 
case be relaxed beyond a limit of 3 years. 


Qualifications: — 
Essential 


(i) First Class Master's 


Geophysics. 


Degree in Geology or 

(ii) About 3 years’ experience in Geological mapping 
or Geophysical exploration. 

(iii) About 2 years’ teaching experience. 


(iv) Research experience. 


Desirable 
(1) Doctorate in Geology or Geophysics. 
(ii) Experience in Guiding Research, 
(iii) Experionce in Economic Mineral Investigation. 
(13) One permanent Lecturer in Physics and Meteorology: 


(C) One Leoturer in Chemical Engineering (post tempo- 
rary but likely to be made permanent), 


Pay:i—Rs. = 350-—-350—J80—38()--.) --590--K. 080৮ 
770-—40.--850), 


Part IT) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 849 


.ہس تچ 2۰ھ ستستست.ت-ےسے.۰.ست EEE‏ _ 


176৮9022527. 38 years (43 years for Scheduled 
বিল and Scheduled Tribes) and 45 years for displaced 
ersons from Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu 
rd Kashmir. In the case of Indian employees of the 
Government of Burma discharged owing to constitutional 
changes in that country upper age-limits, may not 
enforced. For others, age-limits will be strictly adhered 
to save in exceptional circumstances and will in no case be 
relaxed beyond a limit of 3 years. 


For (B) Qualifications :— 
Essential 


irst Class Master's Degree or Second Olass 
2 টার, s Degree with octorate in Applied 
Mathematics or Physics or و سن‎ or 
Statistics, with special knowledge of Hydro- 
dynuiicr or Dynamical Meteorology or Physical 


Oceanography. 


(n) Experience of Research and Teaching ope Lg sige 
of Statistics in Analysis of Meteorological data or 
on Dynamical Meteorology. 


Desirable 
(i) Experience of Meteorological and Climatological 
work, 
(in) Experionce of Weather torecasting in India and 
Neighbourhood. 


Qu) Capacity to carry out independent research. 


For (C) Qualifications :— 
Essential 


(i) First Class Degree in Chemical Engineering of 
recognised University or equivalent qualification. 


|) About 3 years’ experience of teachin and research 

৮ in a recognised Institution 01. about 4 yearn’ 
experience im responsible position in industry, 
dealing with utilisation and conversion of fuel. 


0 06 


Specialisation in tuels or petroleum refining. 
Posts declared permanent are pensionable—Probation 
one year. 


For all posts candidates selected for appointment will be 
required شی‎ immediately after selection. 


seep se IA ی۳‎ 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 32(a) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Lecturor in Mathematics in the West Bengal Junior 
Educational Service (Men's Branch). A panel of suitable 
candidates will also bo prepared for future vacancies. 
Women are unsuitable tor tha post. The nolected 
candidates may be posted anywhere in West Bengal 
10018101710 Calcutta. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizensmp of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) ۸ first classy Master’s degree, or a second class 
Master's degree with firat class Honours in the 
Bachelor’s degree, or a Doctorate degree with first 
class Honours or second class Master’s degree, in 
Mathematics of an Indian’ University, or 
equivalent toreign qualifications. 


Desirable 


(i) Good power of expression in Hengali—spoken and 
written 


Age not more than 30 years on Ist August 1956, 
‘elaxahle tor a candidate possessing exceptionally high 
juahfications. ‘I'he upper age-limit is relaxable by 
। years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years 
Or displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 

নিটল লা in undivided Bengal, who had 
nginally opted to serve in Hast Bonga! and was working 
inder the Government of East Bengal after partition but 
185 nince formally resigned his servico under that Govern- 
homt and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence নিশি 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to m concession in 
৬ of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact pcriod of datontion, impmson- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of tour years. 


۱ 
(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Ra. 200—10—420—15—450 
per month plus usual allowances. Higher initial pay may 
be grantod in exceptional cases 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West JHengal, Anderson House (ground 
fleor), Ahpors, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidstes who are 
urablo to obtam copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any sumiar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published im the “Calcutta Gazette’ of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 20th August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persuns, testifying to their private 
character, 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 (for cach category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan trom o Government Treasury 
or the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXV1— 
Miecellaneous—Receipts of the Public Service Commis- 
sion, West Bengal’’. Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu 
of treasury chaluns are not accepted. Postal orders 
however, may be accepted from candidates. They should 
be crossed and made payable to “The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’. No application will 
be considered unlews aecompanied with the requisite 
applivation 169. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before aor fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


_ The Comminsion may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—-''(i) A rape ৭ person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakisten, 
e.g., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
azetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
48119181710) in original. 


(18) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming uge concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in onginal from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Casto or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application tee must furnish bemdes the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a 1218৮ officer or a Member of 
Parluament or State Legislature to show that he is not in a 
position to pay the prescribed foe.”’ 


(8) Address.--Candidates should give their present 
address and should comraumecate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their apphcations through persona of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneons recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known te 
them will bo disregarded. 


(8) Applications trom candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, @ local. 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unloss they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


মি. ৮. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Servico Commission, Wert Bengal, 


Alipore, the 27th July 1956, 


300 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 6 


[Pant 1 


৯৯১৯৯৯১৯০১১ 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 32(b) 


~PLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
fees in Pali in the West Bengal Junior Educational 
Service (Women’s Branch). Men are unsuitable for the 
st. A panel of suitable candidates will also be prepared 
or future vacancies. The selected candidates may be 
posted anywhere in West Bengal including Calcutta. 


tlons.— 
(1) Qualifioations 07 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


ii st class Master’s degree in Pali or a second 

৮ پت کی‎ Master’s degree ES Pali with first class 
Honours in the Bachelor’s degree in Pali or in 
Sanskrit or a Doctorate degree in Pali with firet 
class Honours in Pali or Sanskrit or second class 
Master’s degree in Pali of an Indian University 
or equivalent foreign qualifications. 


Desirable 


Good power of expression in Bengali—spoken and 
written, 


more than 30 years on lst August 1956, relax- 

ue ee a candidate possessing , exceptionally high 

ualifications and for rsons serving in the Education 

Department, West ngal. The upper age-limit is 

relaxuble by five years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and 
up to 45 years for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


T upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
বলিল سس ا‎ 17) undivided Bengal, who ا‎ 
originally opted to serve in East Ben al and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition but 
has since formally resigned her service under that 
Government and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1047 was 
detained, imprisoned, intorned or externed on account of 
her activities in connection with the country’s stru gle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession im 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 


of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay 1s Rs, 200—10—420—15—450 
plua usual allowances. The question of granting higher 
initial pay may he considered in exceptional cases. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of appiication.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of tho Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending & 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly tho wording and spacing of the sample form 
ublished in the “Calcutta Gazette’? of the Ist September 
955. provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 20th August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 6 (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury 
or the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXVI— 
Miscellaneous—-Receipts of the Public Service Commis- 
sion, West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, ١ا٥۰,‎ in heu 
of treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, 
however, may be accepted from candidates. They should 
be crossed and made payable to “The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’. No application will 
be considered unless ‘accompanied with the requisite 
application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depusiting fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘'(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with her শি satisfactory evidence 
that she is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., refugee registration card or u certificate from a 
azetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
egislature, in origfnal. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming ago concession must furnish with her 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or 9, Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which sho claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person secking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliamont or State Legislature to show that she is not in ھ‎ 
position to pay the prescribed fee.” 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications eheough rsons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment, Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates whg are in permanent 
or temporary employment undor any Government, @ local 
or سو‎ Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 27th July 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 32(0) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Associate Lecturer in English, Bengal Engineering College 
in the West Bengal General Service. Women are unsuitable 
for the post. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(1) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) First class Master's degree in English or second 
class Master’a degree with Honours in the subject 
at the B.A. stage. نیت‎ 


(iii) Teaching experience of at least one year. 


(iv) Good power of expression in Bengali. 


Desirable 


(i) Knowledge of present day social problems in Indias 
and the West. 


(1) Experience of editing and producing magazines. 


Age ordinarily below 30 years but not 1988 than 26 years 
on Ist July 1956, relaxable in the case of exceptionally 

ualified candidates and for persons serving in The Educa- 
tion Department, West Bengal. The upper age-limit is 
relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 
45 years for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Governmont servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally i lace to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of Kast Bengal after partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
thent und has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947, was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country's struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude shall be entitled to a concession in reapec 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externmoent suffered up to a maximum ও 
four years. 


Part IT] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 301 


সপ چو ےچ‎ 
رو‎ a 
ری‎ Pay.—The scale of pay is Re, 200—26—850 plus PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 
usual dearness allowance, The selected candidate will ٥۹ 
entitled to quarter within the college compound subject 0997 


to ٦ of 10 per cent. of emolumonts. 
APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— District Inspectresa of Schools in the West ngal 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which Educational Service (Women's Branch). Men are consi- 
will be available from the office of the Public Service dered unsuitable. 

Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, کک‎ er on দান, a (1) Qualifications.— 
a £ it , 7 ۱ . ; 
সস ۳ 0 ات نس ا‎ eal : a (i) Citizenship of India ag defined in Part II of the 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply Constitution of Indis, 
on any fimilar typed (not handwritten) form showing (ii) A good Master’s degree or its equivalent of a 


exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 


mblished in the “Calcutta Gazette’ of the 1st September recognised University in India or abroad. 


195, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ (111) A degree in teaching of an Indian University or 
own handwriting, equivalent foreign qualifications. 
(iv) Three years’ experience of inspection work or in 
The application must be addressed to the Secretary and teaching in a school. 


i h he 20th A t 1956. 
should reach him not later than the و‎ (9) Ability to undertake touring. 


(vi) Familiarity with modern outlook and methods of 


(4) Partloulars and certificates required.—Candidates foal | ti 
should furnish evidence 1 امیس‎ age, و دس راہ‎ pal 8۲۱۷۰۹۰۸ Inspection. 

vjous experience together with certificates written no ۳ : : eer 
Lib than one year prior to the date of their applications, (517 হালের مس سد‎ ane, سروینت‎ 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private (viii) Good power of expression in Bengali—spoken and 
charagter. written. 

ora than, 80 years on Ish Augnst_ 1008, relax‏ ام گی ৪৫৯00 mash enclose with thelr applica‏ ری 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 (for each category of posts) in the high qualifications and for persons serving in the Education‏ 
form of u receipted chalen from a Government, Treasury Department, West Bengal. The upper age-limit is relax-‏ 
or the Reserve Bank of India under the head ‘XXXV1—. able by five years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to‏ 
Mincellaneons—Receipts of the Public Service Commis- 45 years for displaced persons {rom Pakistan.‏ 
ate lieu‏ وط 80 Money orders,‏ ای سن sion, Wost‏ 
f treasury chaluns are not accepted. ostal orders, রা নয or‏ 
fe al (4‏ ا ডি হি‏ ک0 may be accepted from candidates. They should‏ سن 
was workin‏ لہ he crossed and made payable to ‘The Secretary, Public originally opted to serve in East Bengal‏ 
Service Commission, West Bengal’. No application will der th t Bent Bengal after partition. b &‏ 
De‏ مس شی জার 51255 eee‏ ار و be considered unless accompanied with the requisite‏ 

Heation tee has since formally resigned her service under that 
07030 : Government and has come over to India as refugee. 

Yandidates in Government service should make sure A candidate who hefore the 15th August 1947 was 
before depositing fee that their applications will be detained. imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
forwarded x their superior officers. In no case will the je ساس‎ Oe 7٦ کے تک کر‎ 
fee paid with the application be refunded. moral tur itude, shall be entitled to a concession in 


spect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. ages ee or externment suffered up to a maximum 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 250--20—650—25—750 


গাও A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence ver month plus usual dearness and house rent allowances. 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, ৪. question of granting higher initial pay may be 


refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a considered in the case of a candidate specially well-qualified‏ ,.ہ 
gavetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State and experienced.‏ 


Legislature, in original. 
(9) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
(ji) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his Commission. West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
x a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
lo the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 


(iti) ۸ displaced person seeking remission of পা published in the “Calcutta Gazette’’ of the lst September 
کر اینوس کات ھک‎ ae বনী রী পা ্ eae দা the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
اع‎ Offcor or a wanotted ee 7 রর سو‎ of OFT: লিও মাযার 
arliament or State Legislature to show thut he is not in a . 9 

Lig : pphcation must be addressed to the Secretary and 
‘sition to pay the prescribed fee.” should reach him not later than the 20th August 1966. 

(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present (4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
ddress and should communicate at once any subsequent should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
hange of address. previous experience together with certificates written not 

more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 

(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the pert of candidates ت7‎ ১0 ০1005850555 
) anliat support. of their applications through ersons of , 
influence or officials of Government জা] disqualify them (8) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation 7 tions a fee of Rs. & (for each category of posts) in the 
পুন সাত in the candidates or otherwise known to form of a rece:pted chalan from a Government, Treasury 
em will be disregarded. or the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXV1— 


Miscellaneous—Receipts of the Public Service Comunis- 
sion, West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, ete., in heu 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent P 
or temporary employment under any Government, »# local of treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal রা 
or Statutory Body (8..১ 10801100881 ৮8119) Corporation), in however, may be accepted from igs idates, They shoul 
سے‎ will be rejected و‎ they are submitted through ae ایا ہد‎ ota عو‎ না 4 রা 
t inti i i ice, ervic ' Be ; ‘ ie 

© appointing authority of their posts or service bo considered unless accompanied, with the requisite 

application tee. 
8. ০. বাতি Becratery, Candidates in Government service should make eure 
Tnblie Service Commission, West Bengal, before depositing fee that their avulica bans will be 
forwarded by their suporior officers. In no case wil} the 


Alipore, the 27th July 1950, fee paid with the application be refunded, 


362 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


[Parr 11 


২৯ ১ 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—'‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with her application satisfactory evidence 
that she is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from & 
aeetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 

gislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with her 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Membgr of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
perticular caste or tribe to which she claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gaectted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that she is not in a 
position to pay the prescribed fee.”’ 


(6) Address.—(‘andidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any وم‎ on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons intcrested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates wha are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, ھ‎ local 
or শা? Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unleas they are submitted through 
the appointing suthority of their posta or service. 


8. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 28th July 1956. 


wa 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 35(b) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for seven spi dela posts 
of Additional Rehabilitation Officer under e Refugee, 
Relief and Rehabilitation Directorate, West Bengal. Some 
more vacancies are likely to occur in near future, 

The selected candidates will have to furnish a Securit 
Deposit of Its. 500 in cash and Rs. 1,500 in Fidelity Bond. 
If no cash security can be furnished, a Fidelity Bond for 
Rs. 2,000 por be accepted and in that case, the amount 
of Rs. 500 will be realised in 12 monthly instalments from 
the pay of the candidates. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(11) A degree of a recognised University, relaxable up 
ntermediate standard in case of یج‎ specially 
qualified candidate. 


(111) Ability to undertake strenuous outdoor duties, 


(1) Knowledge of relief and rehabilitation work of 
Government of West Bengal. 


(11) Experience of social services. 


Age not more than 40 years on Ist August 1956, relax- 
able in exceptiona) cases. The upper mee ditt is relaxable 
by 5 years for members of Scheduled Castes /Tribes and 
up to 45 years for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit .is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally سک‎ to serve in East Bengal and was working 
کت‎ ts ماش‎ ment of heads Bengal after partition, but 

: ally resigned hig servi 5 
ment and has come over to India Pag ا‎ ০8 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
hia activities in vonnection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession jn 
respect of the upper age-limit. Tha concession granted 
will he equal to the exact poriod of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years, 


(2) Pay.—The posts carry w fixed pay of Rs. 162 per 
month plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of appllcation.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Aliporo, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescrihed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette” of the Ist September 
1955. provided the blafkes are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the দা and 
should reach him not later than the 20th August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates reunited —Cundtlates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character 


(5) Fee.-Candidates must enclose with their applice- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Reservo Bank of India under the head “XXXVI— 
Miscellaneous—Receipts of the Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal”. Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu of 
treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, however 
may be accepted from candidates. They should be crossed 
and made payable to ‘‘The Secretary, Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal’. No application will be considered 
unless accompanied with the requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent, and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—-‘‘(i) A وا ود‎ person claiming age 00ء‎ 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
6.g., refugee registration card or a certificate from a 
razettead officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(ii) ۸ member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying 
the particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iti) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.”’ 


(6) Address.—Candidaten should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candi- 
dates to enlist support of their applications through 
persons of intluence or officials of Government will 
disqualify them tor appointment. Spontaneous recom- 
mendation from persons interested in the candidates ہہ‎ 
otherwise known to them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body ‘ee Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their poste or service, 


নি. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 


Public Sorvico Commission, West Bengal. 
Ahipore the 28th July 1956. 


Part IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 869 


গা স্পা  ৯৮ কা ০ [2(7 3ظ.-0.---.-.[حت.--00.32-.۲ض۳---:......---2.-ت:2تت-‎ 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Examination for reorultment of Typists 
Advertisement No. 36 


A COMPETITIVE examination will be held in Calcutta 
and Jalpaiguri hy the end of October 1956 for recruitment 
of Typists in the West Bengal Secretariat and certain other 
Government offices. Pay—Rs. 55—130 plus compensatory 
allowance at 10 per cent, of the basic pay and usual 
allowances. 


Qualifications. — 


(i) School Final Examination Certificate or equivalent. 
Age below 25 years on Ist February 1956. 
Temporary typists in the Secretariat or other 
offices where recruitment is made on the results 
of the Typists’ Recruitment Examination will be 
eligible if their age on lst February 1956 doer 
not exceed 25 years by more than the period of 
continuous temporary service. Age-limit relaxable 
by five years for candidates belonging to Scheduled 
Castes /Tribes and by three years for a displaced 
person from Pakistan. Age-limit is also relax- 
27019 in some other cases. 


Copies of detailed notice and application form obtainable 
from 18th August from the office of the Commission, 
Anderson House (ground floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, 
personally or on sending a_ self-addressed stam 
envelope. Applications (with two copies of passport size 
hotographe enalosed) to be aubmitted on the proscribed 
بی‎ together with a crossed postal order of Rs. 5 payable 
to ‘Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’ 
or a treasury chalan for Rs. 4 under head ‘“XXXVI— 
Miscellancous—Receipts of Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal.”’ “The Commission may remit genuinely 
indigent bona fide displaced personn’ fee, 


Closing date 715 Auguat 1956. 


নি. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 25th July 1956. 


WEST BENGAL POLICE 


APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates for the 
pests of Sub-inspector of Police in West Bengal Police. 


1. Qualifications.— 


(i) Citizen of Indie as defined in Part TI of the 
Conatitution of India and ordinarily native of or 
domiciled in West Bengal 


(11) Graduate of any recognised University. 


(iii) Age over 21 years but below 25 years on lat 
September 1956. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes candidates below 30 years of age on that 
date are also eligible. 16 Maximum age-limit 
may be relaxed up to 45 vyeara in favour of 
displaced persons trom Pakistan. Displaced 
persons belonging to Scheduled Castes or Tribes 
sholl be entitled to a further relaxation by five 
years over 45 years. 


Minimum Physical Standard 


5’ 4” height, 114 lb. in weight and 31” round the chest 
with @ minimum oxpansion of 2”. 


Those measuring above should have the following 


corresponding weights, viz.:— 


121 jb, for 5’ 5”, 127 lb. for 5% 6”, 1382 tb. for 
5’ 7", 138 Ib. for 5’ 8” and above. 


2. Pay.—The post carries a scale of Ra. 150—4—230—5 
—250 plus usual allowances. 


3. Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applicotion in the prescribed form (which is available from 
the office of any Superintendent of Police in West Bengal) 
accompanied with a receipted treasury chalan of Rs. 5 only 
deposited under the head “XXTIT—Police—Feea, Fines and 

orfeitures’’ should be submitted to the Superintendent of 
Police of the district in West Bengal in which the candidate 
فا‎ resident or domiolied so as to reach him on or before the 
30th August 1956. Candidates residing in Caleutta and in 
Tripura will submit their apphestions to the Superinten- 
dent of Police, 24-Parganas, and the Superintendent of 
Police, Nadia, respectively. Candidates should make sure 
before depositing the foe of Rs. & that they are eligible in 
all respects as the fee is not refundable. 


_ The recruntment will be made after a written test and 
interview by the Selection Board, the details of which will 
be furnished along with the application form. Canvassing 
in any form will disqualify a candidate. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 8 OF 1956 


Hemanta Kumar Mitra of 151/F Raja Dinondra Street, 
Caleutte4, debtor-applicant, 


To Sukumar Mitra of 8 Groy Street, Calcutta, and 
7 06618, creditors. 


ON the 17th day of July 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
20th day of August 1956, and that the said applicant do 
wtiend to be oxamined by this Court on that date. 


M. M. BHATTACHARYA, 
District Judge. 


Alipore, the 25th July 1956. 
(602—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, HOWRAH 
INSOLVENCY CASE NO, 9 OF 1956 


TAKE notice that an application has been presented 
betore this Court by Monsoff, son of late Sukhdin Mia, of 
45 Cowes Ghat Road, police-station Sibpur, district 
Howrah, for being adjudged wn insolvent. 6 applica- 
fen has been admitted and fixed on 13th August 1956 for 

earing. 


U. GUPTA, 
District Judge. 


(607—1) 


Dated Howrah, the 24th July 1956. 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 


INSOLVENCY CASK NO. 6 OF 1962 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Niyati Bhusan Ta, 
son of late Ashutosh Ta. of Tarakeswar, police-station 
Tarakerwar, district Hooghly, has been adjudged insolvent 
by an order of the Court on 27th June 1956 and the 27th 
day of August 1956 has been fixed for framing the 
schedule thereof. 


N. L. SHOME, 
District Judge. 


(603—1) 


Dated Chinsurah, the 16th July 1956, 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 
in the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at Allpore 
TNSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 1 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 6th January 1956, 
filed by Kalipada De of 42 8. K. Deb Road, Patipukur, 
police-station Dum Dum, 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the 
application of the debtor himself arid on reading his 
application and hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the 
debtor be and the said debtor ia hereby adjudged insolvent. 

1٢ 18 further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 25th Decomber 1956 from this date. 


Dated this 25th day of June 1956. 


S. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 
(613—1) 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act. V of 1920.) 
in the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at )۵ 
INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 5 OF 1966 


PURSUANT to سس‎ petition, dated 20th January 1956, 
filed by Noor Mahammad of 89/1/14 Tantibagan Lane, 
police-atation Beniapukur, Calcutta, debtor, and on the 
application of the debtor himself and on reading his 
application and hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the 
debtor he and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 22nd December 1956 from this date. 


Dated this 2nd day of June 1956, 
8. ۲۰ CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 
(614—1), 


364 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 


In the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at ۵9 
INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 7 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a_ petition, dated 27th January 1956, 
filed by Ajit Kumar Dutta of 7 Adhar Ch. Das Lane, 
Ultadanga, 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the ا‎ সপ্র of 
the debtor himaelf and on reading his apphvation and 
hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the debtor be ond 
the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 25th Decomber 1956 from this date. 


Dated this 25th day of June 1956, 


ও. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 
(615—1) 


aT 
ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 


in the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at Allpore 
INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO, 14 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a retition, dated 9th March 1956, filed 
by N. I. Bland of 12/4 Mominpur Road, police-station 
Ekbalpur, 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the application of 
the debtor himself and on reading his application and 
hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the debtor be and 
the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 16th Junuary 1957 from this date, 


Dated this 16th day of July 1956. 


নি. P. CHATTERJEHK, Suh-Judge. 
(616—1) 


رد دج تسس سس جس سورس س تر ےہر سس سس بت ےد سد در سے سے سے টিসি‏ 
ORDER OF ADJUDICATION‏ 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 


in the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at Allpore 
INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 16 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 14th March 1956. filed 
by Sukhu Mathar of Port Commissioner, J. Block No. 48 
m, police-station Garden Reach, 24-Parganas, debtor 
and on the application of the debtor himself and on Tead- 
ing his application and hearing his lawyer, It 8 ordered 
that the debtor he and the said debtor is hereby adjudged 


insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within ط118‎ January 1957 from this date. 


Dated this 11th day of June 1956. 


শি. P. CHATTERJEK, Sub-Judge. 
(617—1) 


টি 0১0১0 TE TE TS ST ساٹ‎ 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 
In the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at Allpore 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 18 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 7th April 1956, filed 
by Himangsu Mohan Sircar of Kulinpara, police-station 
Khardah, district 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the 
application of the debtor himself and on reading his 
application and hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the 
debtor be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 16th January 1957 from this date. 


Dated this 16th day of July 1956. 


শি. P. CHATTERJIEB, Sub-Judge. 
(618—1) 


[Parr II 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 
In the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at Alipore 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 55 OF 1955 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 13th October 1955 
filed by Bikash Kanti Roy Choudhury of 89/1 Gopal La 
Thakur Road, Baranagar, 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the 
application of the debtor himself and on_ rending his 
application ond hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the 
debtor be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 

Tt is further ordered that tho debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 29th December 1956 from this date. 


Dated this 29th day of June 1956, 


S, P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 
(611—1) 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 27 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 
In the 4th Court of the Sub-Judge at Allpore 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 59 OF 1955 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 19th, November 1955, 
filed against D. A. M. Frost, Power Controller, Eastern 
Railway, Sealdah, debtor, and on the application of a 
creditor and on reading his application and hearing his 
lawyer, it is ordered that the debtor be and the said 
debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 8th December 1956 from thia shes, 


Dated this 80) day of June 1956. 


এ. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 
(612—1) 


٠ 


পারার ইত প০০০০ মমিন 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-P ARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 36 OF 1956 


Ramnarain Shaw of 8/2 Gurudas Dutta Garden Lane, 
police-station Maniktola, 24-Parganas,  creditor- 
applicant, 


To C. Baker, Engine Driver, Eastern Railway, Sealdah, 
Calcutta, debtor. 


ON the 20th day of July 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be beard on the 
31st day of August 1956 und that the said applicant de 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


8. P. CHATTERJEK, Sub-Judge. 


Alipore, the 25th July 1966. 
(608—1) 


En ena 


IN THE ۲۲ھ‎ COURT OF THE SUS-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 40 OF 1956 


Nabi Rasul of Jeliapara, Khardah, police-station Khardeh, 
24-Parganas, debtor, 


To Kishor Shaw of Khardah Jute Mill Pucca Line No. 3, 
sale 0 Khardah, 24-Parganas, and 3 others 
creditors. 


ON the 20th day of July 1956 it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
3188 day of August 1956 and that the said applicant ٥ 
attend to ke examined by this Court on that date. 


শি. 1১. CHATTERIJEK, Sub-Judge. 


Alipore, tha 26th July 1956, 
(609—1) 


Part IT) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 365 


(9 ۳۲۱۴ ۴ھ‎ 608৭7 «OF d€6THE§ «€6SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO, 41 OF 1956 


Mahammad Hanif of Haider Road, Titagarh, 24-Parganas, 
debtor, 


To Ram Sakai Singh of A. P. Debi Road, Titagarh, 
24-Parganas, and 6 others, creditors. 


ON the 20th day of July 1956 it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition of the টা be heard on the 
518۲ day of August 1956 and that the said applicant do 
attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


শি. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


1 25th July 1956. 
Alipore, the wy (610-1) 


টি 
IN THE 18T COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF GAYA 


MONEY SUIT NO. 24 OF 1956 


Jbari Ram, plaintiff, 
versus 


Rsi Bahadur Seth Jessa Ram and others, defendants. 


Notice to— 


(1) R. B. Seth Jessa Ram Fatah Chand, father’s name 
not known, Banker and Commissioned Agent, 160 Cross 
Road, Calcutta. (2) Bedi Ram Sharma, father’s name not 
known (3) Permanand, father’s neme not known [ (2) 
and (3) Bankers and Commissioned Agents, 160 Cross 
Street, Calcutta]. (4) Firm Rai Behadur Jessa Ram 
Fateh Chand, a firm carrying on business as Banker and 
Commissioned Agent in the city of Caleutta having for its 
business premires situated at 160 Cross Street, Calcutta, 
and other cities in India. 


WHEREAS the plaintiff has instituted the above suit 
for the recovery of Rs. 8,835- and whereas service in 
the ordinary way could not be effected on you; 


Now, therefore, take notice that 6th August 1956 is the 
date fixed for appearance in the above suit on which date 
you must appear in টির or through authorised agent 
otherwise the suit will proceed ex parte against you. 


Given under my hand and seal of this Court, this the 
Sth day of July 1956. 


K. K. LAL, 
Sub-Judge-in-charge. 


(604—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT AS8ANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 5 OF 1956 


Md. Ishaque, son of late Khuda Bux, of Nechu Dhowrah 
Haws, Khad, police-station Kulti, district Burdwan, 
petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court hae 
registered that anplicesion and fixed 4th August 1956 for 
the hearing thereof. 

A. N. CHAKRABARTI, 


Sub-Judge. 
(605—1) 


২২০১০ 


Dated Asansol, the 20th July 1956. 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 7 OF 1956 


Sain Ditta, son_of late Jhande Khan, of Patiana, police- 
Station Kulti, district Burdwan, petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
Bpplied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has 
registered that বিগ পিক and fixed llth August 1966 for 
the hearing thereof. 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, 
Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the 18th July 1956. (806—1) 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 


Notice 


THE following appointments on the Bank’s staff are 
hereby notified :— 


Shr} 8. K. Chatterji, Staff Assistant, held temporary 
charge of Bhowanipore Branch, Calcutta, from the 
15th June to'the 4th July 1956 inclusive, vice 
Shri A. K, Banerjee. 


Shri P. C. Sen, Staff Assistant, to be Agent, Howrah 
Branch, as from the 27th June 1956, vice Shri 
N. N. Ghosh. 


Shri .ا‎ L. Magon to act as Agent, Park Street Branch, 
Calcutta, as from the 8th July 1956, vice Shri 
শি. Chatterjee (1). 


Shri .کا‎ M. Roy, clerk, held عم‎ charge of Jadav- 
ur University Pay Office Candee Ballygunge 
ranch, Calcutta), from the 19) to the 22n 

June 1956 inclusive, vice Shri তি. K. Bosu. 


By order 
৪. GUPTA, 
Secretary and Treasurer, 


Dated Calcutta, the 24th July 1956. 
(600—1) 


I, SWADESRANJAN SARKAR, B.L., Pleader, intend 
to be enrolled as an Advocate, High Court, Calcutta. 


(545—A4 


ATUL KUMAR BORAL, Solicitor, intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the High Court at Calcutta. 


(546—4 


ہے۔ہ 


NOTICE is hereby given that SUDHIR KUMAR DEY 
MULLICK, Attorney-at-Law, intends to be admitted as an 
Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. (8514) 


KESHAB CHANDRA GHOSE, M.A., LL.B., intends to 
be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Cont. 


ہہ 


I, ABANI BHUSON GHOSAL, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 


(887—4) 


MAHADEBDAS CHATTERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Caloutts. 


(588—4 


ہے 


I, SYAMA CHARAN BANERJI, M.A. LL.B., intend 
to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High ৮৮ ৃ 


DAYA SHANKAR CHATURVEDI, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the Calcytta High Court. 


(631—4) 


I, MANTK CHANDRA RAY CHOUDHURY, LL.B., 
intend to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 


(632—4 


ےہ 


856 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


{Part IT 


aaa rere a ane 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutte office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyod and an application 
for payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as 
having a right to them are warned to communicate at once 
with the undersigned :—~ 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address 
of the applicant. 
W.D. 3/56-57 1/6-8 100 Shri Tej Karan 
(Hindi). Bothra, 46/1 Strand 
Road, Caloutta-7. 
W.D."4/56-57 H/5-968432 100 Shri Saligram 
(non-Hindi). Pandey, C/o. Sm. 
Brojo Bala Daassi, 
H/0-336281 100 39/2 Ram  Dulal 
(Hindi). Sarkar Street, 
Caloutta. 
H /0-981458 100 
(Hindi). 
789 100 
(Hindi). 
W.D. 5/56-57 H/3-826240 100 Shri M. Pandey, 
(non-Hindi). Directorate ০. 
Marine _ Engineer- 
-ing Training, New 
Taratala ৪ 
Caloutta-27. 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reeerve¥Bank of India, Issue Department, Caloutta, the 17th 
July 1956. 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and an application 
for payment of their value has been received from the person / 
party whose names are shown against , the numbers. Any 
other person/party who vconsider(s) himself/themselves as 


having ৪ t to them are warned to communicate at once 
with ersigned :-— 
Regis ٠ Notes No. Value. Name and address 
ا‎ of the applicant. 
Re. 
W.D. 1/56-57 B/72-701817 100 Shri V. N. Pandeya, 
ت8‎ isor, 
City P.O., 


جھہپئے۔ 


W.D. 2/58-57 H/0-213261 100 Shri Ghans Ram, 
(non. Hindi). C/o. Shri Kishan 
Lall Parihar, Inside 
Jalori Gate, Jodh- 
pur. 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Deparment, Calcutta, the 17th 
July 1956. 


ক শী سسےسےتےسسسےےسسے س‫ ے م۸مم صصص‎ 
THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


ummary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the Conr 
8 কলি 151 Meeting held on the 8th April 1956 


the Ist Meeting of the Commissioners held on the 
ou April 1956 the following business was transacted: — 


(1) Formation of Committees.—The Commissioners 
approved the Chairman’s proposals ca the 
formation of: the Finance, Establishment and 
Traffic Committee, the Works and Marine Com- 
mittee and the Land and Stores Committee. 


P. 0. MITTER, 
Becretary. 


The 20th July 1956. 
(601—1) 


THE COMMISSIONERS FOR THE PORT OF CALCUTTA 


Summary of the Minutes of the Proceedings of the 
Commissioners’ 2nd Meeting, held on the 23rd 50111 
1956 


AT the 2nd Meeting of the Commissioners, held on the 
23rd April 1956, the following business was transacted:— 

1. The late Shri ۴۰ Mukherjee, Port Commissioner,— 
The Commissioners placed on record their deep regret on 
the death of Shri P. Mukherjee and their appreciation of 
the services rendered by him as a Port Commissioner. 


2. Floatation of a new loan to repay the 5} per cent. 
1926-56-86 (first) loan of Rs. 1 orore.—It was decided to 
recommend to Government that the sanction required 
under section 22 of the Calcutta Port Act be accorded to 
the floatation of a new loan of Rs. 77 lakhs carrying 
interest at 4 per cent. to be taken up by the Commissioners 
সা, দা the investment of their Revenue Reserve and 
other Funds. 


3. Aocident to the 8.8. ‘‘Jagvijay’.—The Deputy Con- 
servator’s recommendation was approved. 


The Commissioners also sanctioned routine establishment 
proposals and routine proposals relating to execution of 
works, purchase of material, remission of charges, grant 
of leases, etc. 

P. C. MITTER, 
Secretary. 


(629-1) 


The 20th July 1956. 


PUBLIC NOTICE 


Re: Victory Engineering Works 


NOTICE is hereby given that our client Sree Durga 
Prosad Gupta, who had purchased the business carried on 
under the name of Victory Engineering Works at 40 Tangra 
Road, Calcutta, had taken in Sree Gouridutt Bansal and 
Sree I)warka Prosad Agarwal as partners of the said 
business. The said partnership business however was 
subsequently dissolved and Sree Gouridutt Bansal _ retired 
from the said partnership with effect from the 25th 
October 1955 and Sree Dwarka Prosad Agarwal retired 
from the said اس‎ শির: with effect from the 27th 
October 1955. Our client Sree Durga Prosad Gupta is 
hee 8 on the said business as the sole proprietor 

ereof, 


পু. BANERJI & CO., 
Attorneys-at-Law, and 
Attorneys for Sree Durga Prosad Gupta, 
6 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 


Dated the 18th July 1956. 
(628—1) 


ابس 


NOTICE 


To all whom it may 1 


NOTICE is hereby given that my clients Shri Srikrishna 
Basak and Shri Krishna Chandra Basak of Kharagpur, 
district Midnapur, who were partners of Messrs. Acme 
Engineering Works, Kbaragpur, district Midnapur, have 
retired from the said partnership business on ping 
proper notice to other হি on 30th Jaistha 1363 B.S. 
and my said clients shall not be liable for any consequence 
of the said partnership business as they 61৮ “LG longer 
partners. ای‎ 


SANAT KUMAR RAY CHOUDHURY. 
(627—1) 


epee RNP nt ১১১00 


IN THE MATTER OF BLUE PRINT PUBLISHERS 
LIMITED 


NOTICE is hereby given in pursuance of section 516_of 
the Companies Act, 1956, that I, Asoke Kumar Sen 
Gupta, Advocate, of 5 Syamananda Road, Calcutta-25, 
have been appointed Liquidator of the Blue Print Pub- 
lishers Limited, Registered Office, 5 Syamananda Road, 
Calcutta-25, by the Creditors of the Company at a moeting 
of the Creditors of the Company duly convened and helt 
at the Company’s Reyistered Office, on 14th July 1956. 


ASOKE KUMAR SEN GUPTA, 
Dated the 28th day of July 1956. Liquidator. 


(620—1) 


Past IT] 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1956, 
AND 
MATTER OF BHARAT VEGETABLE 
PRODUCTS LIMITED 


NOTICE is hereby eee that a petition for the windi 


in THE 


up of the abovenamed Company by the Calcutta Hi 

Court was on the 5th day of June 1956 presented to the 
said Court by Shiva Bhandar Charitable Society, a creditor 
of the said Company, and that the said petition is directed 
to be heard before the Court on the 27th day of August 
1956; and any creditor of the said Company desirous of 
opposing an order for the winding up of the said Company 
under the above Act should appear at the time of hearing 
by himself or his Attorney or Advocate for that purpose; 
and a copy of the petition will be furnished to any creditor 
‘of the said Company requiring the same, by the under- 
signed, on payment of the prescribed charge for the same. 


P. D. HIMATSINGKA & 00. 
Attorneys for the petitioner, 
6 Old Post Office Street, 


Calcutta. 
Dated 26th July 1956. 


Note.—Rule 58 provides that any person who intends to 
appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve on 
or send by post to he abovenamed, notice in writing of 
his intention so to do. The notice must state the name 
and sere of the person, or, if » firm, the name and 
addres of the firm, and must he served, or, if posted, 
must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above- 
named not later than two clear days before the 27th day 
of August 1956. 


(624—1) 


RE: EASTLAND PROVIDENT INSURANCE CO., LTD. 
(IN LIQUIDATION). 


NOTICE is hereby given that pursuant to section 92017) 
of the Insurance Act, 1938, a meeting of the creditors and 
contributories of the above Company will be held on 21st 
August 1956 at 2-30 p.m. in the office of the undersigned 
to lay before the meeting his acts and dealings and of the 
conduct of the winding-up up to 3lst March 1956. 


M. K. DEB, 
Liquidator. 
8/2 Hastings Street, lst Floor, Calcutta. 


Dated the 218 July 1956. 
(623—1) 


TO WHOM iT MAY CONCERN 


IN terms of the deed of dissolution of partnership regis- 
tered on 25th June 1956 between Shri Raghunathdas Daga 
and Mast. Radhabai as Karta of the undivided Hindu 
amily consisting of herself and her minor son Srinath 
Daga the firm Messrs. Ramla] Hanumandas of 29 Armenian 
Street, Calcutta, and its eister concern Messrs. Hanuman- 
das Ballabhdas of 147 Cotton Street, Calcutta, har been 
dissolved with effect from 23rd June 1956. Power of 
Attorney executed by the said Mst. Radhabai in favour of 
the said Shri Raghunathdas Daga har since been cancelled. 
Books of account of the firms are اوسر و‎ with Shri 
Raghunathdas Daga, who is alone liable an responsible 
for the past, present and future dehts and liabilities of 
both the above firms and is also entitled to the assets of the 
Said firms. Shri Raghunathdas Daga has become the sole 
proprietor of the said firme since 23rd J une 1956. 


RADHABAI, KARTA of H.U.F. 
(Consisting of herself and her minor 
son Srinath Dags), 
89 Shibtollah Street, 
0+1 
۲. ۶۰. LAHIRI, Pleader, 
201 Harrison Road, 
Calcutta-7. 


The 218 July 1956. 
(626—1) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 307 


DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP 


NOTICE is hereby given that the partnership business 
heretofore carried on between the un ersigned under the 
name and style of Blue Star Corporation at No. 2, Royal 
Exchange Place, under Registered Deed of Partnership, 
dated 318 March 1954, has been dissolved with effect from 
12th July 1956. Mannalal Modi and Kamalapati Tewari 
have retired and Ramgopal Modi has become the sole 
owner of the aforesaid business and of its goodwill as from 
13th July 1956. Proper Deed of Dissolution of Partner- 
ship has been duly executed and registered. 


Dated this 20th day of July 1956. 


RAMGOPAL MODI, 
MANNALAL MODI. 
KAMALAPATI TEWARI. 


(625—1) 


টি 
LosT 


THE Government Promissory Note No. CA041225 of the 
3 per cent. loan of 1 for Rs. 500 originally standing 
in the name of N. E, Kanga, the proprietor by whom it 
was never endorsed to any other person, having been lost 
ag 7 و‎ given gre percent of the above note and 

o interest thereupon have n stopped at the ۵٥ 
Debt Office, Reserve Bank of India, ادس می‎ and thut 
application is about to be made for the issue of duplicate 
in favour of the proprietor. The public are cautioned 
against purchasing or otherwise dealing with the above 
mentioned security. 


Signature of the advortiser—N. FE. Kanga. 


Residence—29 Ezra Street, Calcutta-l. 
(5668—3) 


উট 
LOST 


THE Calcutta Municipal Debentures Nos. 1179/80 for 
Rs. 100 each of 3 per cent. Loan of 1938/39 (C4), dated 
Ist June 1938, originally issued in the name of U. N. 
Misra and last endorsed to Provat Kumar Chattopadhyay 
the Proprietor, by whom they were never endorsed to 
any other person, having been lost, notice is hereby given 
that payment of the above honds and the interest thereon, 
have been pope at the office of the State Bank of India, 
Calcutta, and that application is about to be made for 
the issue of duplicates in favour of the Proprietor. The 
public are cautioned against purchasing or otherwise 


_ dealing with the abovementioned debentures. 


Name of Advertiser—Provat Kumar Chattopadhyay. 


Residence—17 Rai Bahadur Road, Calcutta-34. 
(630—1) 


পসরা 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Raivedero have 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1953, 
revised working hours are specified below:— 
Reading Rooma— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Sundays and holidays—10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 


Lending Section— 
Week days (including Saturdays)}—10 a.m. to 5 p.m 
Sundays and holidaye—10 a.m. to 1-30 p.m. 


The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, how- 
ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
yoar:— 

(1) Republic Day, (ii) Independence Day and (iii 
Mahatma andhi’s Bi Day. ا‎ 

Persons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open tw 
any One residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security in cash is essential. 


B. 8. KESAVAN, 
Belvedere, Calcutta-27, the 6th March 1954, 


Registered No. C207 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956. 


PART V—Acts of the Parliament of India assented to hy the President 


20 of 1958. 


and Ordinances promulgated by the President 
COVERNMENT OF INDIA 


Ministry of Law 


The following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 2181: May, 1956, and is hereby published 
for general information :— 


ACT NO. XXIII OF 1956 
THE 7 APPROPRIATION ACT, 
1956. 
[215 May, 1956. ] 
An Act to provide for the withdrawal of certain swms from 


and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of 
Travancore-Coclun for the service of the financial year 


1956-57, 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows :— 


1. This Act may be called the Travancore-Cochin Appro- 
priation Act, 1956. 


2. From and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of 
Travancore-Cochin there may be paid and applied sums not 
exceeding those specified in column 3 of the Sehedule amount- 
ing in the aggregate [inclusive of the sums _ specified in 
column 3 of the Schedule (0 the Travancore-Cochin Appro- 
priation (Vote on Account) Act, 1956] to the sum of forty-one 
crores, eighty-one lakhs and ninety-four thousand rupees 
towards defraying the several charges which will come in 
course of payment during the financial year 1956-57, in 
respect of the services specified in column 2 of the Schedule. 


3. The sums authorised to be paid and applied from and 
out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of’ Travancore- 
Cochin by this Act shall be appropriated for the services and 
purposes expressed in the Schedule in relation to the said 
year. 


Short title. 


With- 
drawal of 
R 


8, 
41,81,94,000 
from and ৮ 
out of the 
Consolida- 
ted Fund 
of the State 
of Travan- 
core-Cochin 
for the 
financial 


year 
1956-57. 


Appro- 
priation. 


190 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


THE SCHEDULE, 


(See sections 2 and 8.) 


Services and purposes. 


Agricultural Income-tax and Sales Tax 


Land Kevenue oe 
Excise ee 7 
Stamps ٠ ve ٠ 
Forest es ٠ 7 
Registration ٠ os = 
Motor Vehicles Acta oe is 
Irrigation  .. ve 
Debt Charges oe 


Heads of States, Ministers and Head- 
quarters Staff. 


State Legislature ee 
Elections ee oe -7 


District Administration and Miscella- 
neous. 


Administration of Justice 

Jails - we 

Police 7 7 ٠ 
Scientific Departments... و‎ 


Education 5, 


Medica] as es 

Publie Health 7 ٠ 
Agriculture .. a i 
Rural Development +s 7 
Veterinary .. es 

Co-operation 7 ৪৪ 
Industries ১৭ os as 


[Parr V 


Sums not exceeding— 


Voted 


Re. 
9,41,600 
43,48,200 
17,44,100 
2980 
94,07,700 
14,71,900 
7,07,300 
18,42,200 


33,01,600 


4,95,500 
22,81,400 
29,77,800 


49,29,200 
9,386,400 
1,12,67,000 
3,71,000 
7,09,27,800 
1,74,14,700 
§2,78,500 
§7,13,900 
58,655,000 
12,34,100 
11,39,000 
1,86,97,700 


Charged on 


the 


by 
Parliament, | Consolidated 


Fund. 


Re. 


90,200 


0 
1,17,89,800 
5,69,800 


24,300 


5,66,500 


2,12,000 


Total. 


Ra. 
9,41,600 
44,38,400 
17,44,100 
2,78,200 
94,07,700 
14,71,900 
7,07,300 
21,62,200 
1,17,89,800 
880 


5,19,800 
22,81,400 
29,77,800 


54,805,700 
9,36,400 
1,12,67,000 
3,71,000 
7۶00 
1,74,14,700 
080 
57,13,900 
58,55,000 
12,34,100 
11,398,900 


#,68,800 | 1,91,66,500 


۸ VI 


[রাজ 


XLI 


ক ০ a 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


2 


Services and purposes, 


Labour and Miscellaneous ٠ 
Civil Works .. 

Electricity .. is 7 
Pensions oe 7 

Stationery and Printing .. 
Miscellaneous 7 
Community Development Projecta .. 
Transport Schemes ae = 


Capital Outlay on Irrigation (Com. 
mercial), 


Capital Outlay on Irrigation (Non- 
mmercial), 


Capital Outlay on Agricultural Im- 
provement. 


Capital Outlay on Industrial Develop- 
ment. 


Capital Outlay on Civil Works 
Capital Outlay on Electricity Schemes 


Capital Account of Other Works out- 
side the Revenue Account. 


Capital Account on Transport Schemes 
outside the Revenue Account. 


Capital Account on State Schemes of 
vernment Trading. 


Loans and Advances bearing Interest 
Public Debt— Repayment 
Total 


ہے وہ -. ینوہ এ ee ae ee‏ | وب es‏ داد শর rg চর.‏ وم ووژٛسٗسجھسے ee‏ یرجھ عچے ہے 7 


191 
8 
Sume not exceeding— 
Total. 
Rs. ۱ 
66,26,700 66,26,700 
200 2,19,000 | 2,81,81,700 
80,098,100 | 87,08,600 | 1,68,06,700 
87,03,000 20,000 | 1 0 
29,48,400 29,48,400 
27,565,300 | ۰ 0 78,55,300 
1,18,13,500 7 1.0 
1,70,36,400 9,659,600 | 1,79,96,000 
51,80,600 ve 51,80,600 
1,03,95,200 ۱ 10,0 
85,200 66,000 1,1,0 
6 0 ۱ 99,97,800 
2,98,19,700 2,93, 19,700 
3,32,96,100 کہ‎ 3,0 
52,79,000 52,798,000 
23,31,600 23,31,600 
56,57,300 56,57,300 
1,75,28, 100 1,40,000 | 1,76,68,100 
7 1,03,62,000 || 0 


37,85,77,400 


3,96,16,600 | 0 


K. Y. BHANDARKAR, Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


| 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 19th July 1956. 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


eekly Weather and Orop 


for 


Bengal 
July 1956 


CONTENTS: 


Report of Weat 
the week ending the 19th 


Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural and 


Animal Husbandry Products (average quality) 
in Caloutta during the month of February 


1966 ۰ 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


493—404 


495—508 


No. 31 of 1956 


Summary.— During the week under report thero was raimfall in thirty-three subdivisions. The weather conditions were unfavourable 
in six subdivisions. Transplantation of Aman continuing in some subdivisions. 


The condition of the standing cro 
oattle-dizease was reported from five su 


انار ای 


was on the whole fair. 


The wages of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight during the week under report. 


rainfall 
poet pt and 89 
= weok. 


i 
24-Parganas. 
Sadar a 


Diamond Harbour 
Barrackpur 


Baraset Pan 
Basirhat 


Nadia, 


Ranaghat 


Murshidabad. 
Sadar 


Jangipur 0 


Burdwan. 
Sadar 


Katwa ۲ 


Kalna es 


3:27 114/16 114/16 


وہ وھ 


Tho fodder_was reported to bo insufficient in thirteen subdivisions and 


"٠ 


Totel The minimum 
gi Sipe Race Oharacter of Stage and progress of Soarclty of Prospects of Fodder Cattle. Labour wags 
oo in seers per weatherandita agricultural opera- seed, ifany. thes condition. disease. without food. 
rupee. effect on the tlons. crops 
standing crops. (estimated 
Thi: Previous outturn). 
weeks week. 
3 Xa) 88) 4 & 6 ۲ 6 9 10 
Kh 2 116/16 Favourable ‘Transplantation No scarcity Falr Insufficient Noreport .. Ra 1-4. 
progressing. 
ea 2 2 ae ee ee ee 
2 2 Favourable Transplantation Scarce Fair Insufficient No report Rs. 2. 
progressing. ৬ 
6 6৪8 2 2 Ditto Ditto Sufficient No good Ditto کر‎ Ditto Rs. 1-12, high 
216 118/16 116/16 Ditto Seed-bed prepa- a 7 Ditto Ditto Ra. 1-8. 
ration pro- 
greusing 
1 15/16 1 16/16 ee ao ae ve ee ee eea 
277 114/16 114/16 Favourable 7 Tutercultural Buficient . Noreport . Rs. 1-12, normal, 
operation ham- 
pering. 
1°66 118/16 114/16 Ditto Weeding inter- Sufficient Fair .. Insufficient Ditte! » Ra. 1-8. 
cultural } ope- 
ration oonti- 
nued, 
1 114/16 114/16 Dr W of Sufficient No good Sufficient No report Rs. 1-12, normal. 
_ ' صا ما‎ 
progress. 
0 11 116/16 115/16 Favourable Land انلسم ید‎ Ditto Fair Ditto Ditto Rs. 1-4, normal. 
tion for Aman 
continued = 
1:40 2 1/16 2 1/16 Ditto .. Transplantation ee Insufficient § Reported Ra, 1-8, normal. 
of Aman ng 
On. 
170 NK N.K. Weeding of jute} Bufficient .. Fair Sufficient Nu report .. Bs 1-8, normal. 
aud Aus contl- 
nued 
; a 11508710168 N port Rs. 1-12 al, 
; Transplansation Sufficient Fair nsufiic: oO re এ, 1-12, norm 
(80 116/16 115/16 Favourable Ls کی مار‎ 
“ted. 
সু 
.. Field ۰ Ditto... ; Sufficient itto .. Rs. 1-8, normal. 
رو‎ £/16 F2 8/16 +60 ৮ নিও وا‎ ۳۲ 
nued, 
P vourable Ploughing stop- + Ditta Fair Dito .. Ra گا‎ 
1:10 115/16 116/16 Unfavou du 6 
ught. 


Districts ana 
subdiviaions. 


1 5 
01111] 
Sadar “a 


Rampurhat.. 


Bankura. 
Sadar 75 


Vishnupur ۰٠ 


Midnapere. 
Sadar (North) . 


8৪৫81 (Bouth) .. 
Contai 

Tamluk es 
Ghatal oe 


Serampur es 
Arambagh ॥ 
Chandornagore 
Hewrah. 
Sadar 
10971 a 


Jalpaiguri. 
Sadar a 


Alipurduar.. 


Darjeeling. 
Sadar oes 


Kurseong a 


91118] 


Kalimpong 


& Weet Dinajpar. 
Sadar 


SUPPLEMENT 110 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956‏ 
SS SS Se:‏ چچچچچ رر ۃے جس ہچ ں_م 6ژ سج شگشے۔۔ج۔ ٹکےںژژ ےش ںےشںےں‌ےںںی- سج 


Total The minimum ও 
rainfall price of coarse Character of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder 
during rice in seers per weather and its ےت پیووتین‎ Qpera- = aced, 18 ۰ھہ‎ the standing condition. 
the rupee. effect on tions. orops 
week. جح‎ ہےصسص١صض--.-۔.-.-٦ہ‎ standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous _ outtarn). 
week. week. ™ 
2 804) 505) 4 6 6 ? 8 
2 01 114/16 116/16 Favourable Transplantation 90087006116 Fair Insufficient 
progressing. 
1:00 214/16 114/16 Ditto Ditto Dito Do. .. Sufficient .. 
2 82 2 1/16 2 1/16 Seasonablo.. চল مہ‎ Sufficient Fair .  Buflicient 
: Progreasing. 
1 78 2 2 1/16 Favourable .. Ditto --» Ditto... Do. — Ditto... 
Slight 2 2 is Transplantation Sufficicnut Fair Sufficient . 
progressing. 
2 1/16 2 ও ৬৬৪৬৬ ٠ ee 
1:55 2 2 Seasonable .. ise Insufficient 
1°18 2 2 Favourable .. vane Insufficient ‘x Ditto 
1-70 2 2 Ditto .. Transplantation Sufficiont .. Bleak Sufficient .. 
of Aman conti- 
nued. 
8 08 2 1/16 2 1/16 Ditto -۰ و : کی‎ Ditto .. 
0 08 112/16 112/16 Favourable .. Transplantation a Fair -. Anpsufficicnt 
of Aman conti- 
nued. 
8 02 112/16 112/16 Unfavourable Ditto es Do 09, 0 .. 
2 84 115/16 116/16 Favourable .. Ditto .. Sufficient .. Do. .. Ditto .. 
1 12/16 142/16 Unfavourable Ditto de Ditto .. Do ۰ Ditto... 
oe 116/16 115/16 ৪5৩৪ eee ee oe se 
ee 115/16 116/16 eeoe eeee ee ae © 
: 114/16 114/36 Seasonable .. Transplantation - Insufficient 
of Aman conti- 
nued. 
1۰481 114/16 114/16 Pere Ditto oe ; Sufficient ہے‎ 
نے‎ 
ক 110/16 110/16 Cloudy . Iotercultural Sufficient .. Fair .. Bufficient .. 
operation in 
maize pro- 
4°42 112/16 112/16 Favourable .. Harvesting of Ditto Do. 7 Ditto es 
summer vege- 
table conti- 
nued. 
1 48 2 2 Ditto .. 8000 of Ditto... Do. 10 ۹) 
Aman 09108 
pre : 
3-00 114/16 115/16 Ditto .. Transplantation Ditw ہہ‎ Do. . Sufficient 
of Millet 
8 75 1138/16 118/16 Unfevourable Aman trans- Scarce .. Fair Sufficiont 
70200 
risk. 
775 থৈ. 114/16 Unfavourable poset কি In Sufficient .. Fair .. Sufficient «, 
seed- going 
on. 
150 W.R. 118/16 cane Transplantation Ditto ‘ Do. as Ditto we 
? of Aman conti- 
nued. 
ap N.RB. 114/16 @eee eee ee 
2-50 114/16 N.B. Seasonable .. Aus harvesting Sufficient .. Fair .- Sufficient. 
continued. 
112/16 1138/16 Favourable .. Transplantation Ditto مہ‎ Do. ; Ditto ,. 
of Aman paddy 
going on. 
7 115/16 {115/16 Unfavourable Preparation of Ditto مہ‎ Do. »০ Insufficient 
Aman land 7 
continucd. 
2114/16 114/16 ৪৪৫ Ainan trans- Ditto... কঃ 81100010180 .. 
lantation con- : 
1006৫, 
N.B.—No Froport. 5s 


Calcutta, the 26th July 1958. 


Cattle. Labous ٣ى‎ 
discase, without 10015 
* 
9 10 
No report Re. 1-8. 
Bas. 1-10, 
Reported . Ra. 1-8, 
No report Ra. 1-4, normal. 
No report Rs. 1-8. 
Roported ee ‘ yj a 
Ditto oe Ra. 1-12, 
No report oa Ba. 1-8, 
Ditto oe Rea. 1-4, normals 
No report . Rs. 1-10 
Ditto ৮৪ Ra, 1-10, 
Ditto ےم‎ Re. 1, high. 
Ditto .. Kes. 1-10. 
No report .. K.. 2. 
Repor ted ee ki. ٠ 
No report .. le 2, 
Ditto Rs. 2. 
Ditto Bs. 2. 
Ditto oo 9, 2, 

No report .. Ite. 1, low 
No report Ra. 1-10 ٣۶۰ 
Ditto .. Ra. 2 low. 
No roport . Hs. le< higt 
Ditto ےہ‎ Re ০8, 
Ditto & ৪ Re. 1-12, 

Ditto » Ra لا‎ 


9. N. MUKHERJEE, 


for Director of Agriculture, West Benga! 


SUPPLEMENT TO THR হাজা নাত GAZETTR, AUGUST 2, 1946 496 


oe ہے‎ 1 সা 


শন * ৮ aoe 


Wholesale Market Prices of Agricultural and 
Animal Husbandry Products (average quality) 
in Calcutta during the month of February 1956 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


496 


৩১০১৩১৩০১০১ oo Ooo 


Qo 


> اھ م6 0 ال‎ 0 ₹ GI سم‎ 0 0 ٢] 0 O GI 0 oO &I 
1-6 ek 6 0 ٭‎ II — 0s It 0 00 ۲ 
৫০0] > 9 &I 0 0 SI سے‎ 0 &I 0০06 ٢ 0 ০ ৪] 

WILZ ا‎ 019 
9 ا‎ 0 F OT 0 سد ے‎ 0 ZI OL 0 8s OT 0 0 OI 
81 9 0 8 OF 0 6 OI — 0 1 0 8 Ol 0 8 OL 

০362 0107 pig 
OT FI 0 8 OT ০ ZI 9৪ সপ 0 ০ 6I 0٣ 0 8 gl 
ZI 92 3 & [2 0 S 8 — 0 8 22 0 F یج‎ 0 F 6ج‎ 
> 6 6 ۲ج 0 81 مغ‎ 02 — 00 15 0 হা 02 0 ء‎ 02 
ZU GI > 0 OL و‎ PFI OI سس‎ 00 LI 0 ZI 91 00 LI 
৪ eI _— 0 0 PI سے‎ 0 ০ FI 0 0 PFI 0 0 PFI 

UIST 19‏ 7ن 
কা 1 0 FI SI 09 LI — 0 8 QI 0 0 8I 0 0 LI‏ 
ZI 91 0 1 0 ء٣1‎ — 0০ 1 0 ZI Ol 0 ZI 9‏ 
০ ZI al‏ 1 0 _ سے ZI ٢۲ ০ ٣1‏ 0 تک 
ZI 9 0 1‏ 0 1 و ০‏ سم 1 ০‏ 97 9 0 — 
ZI OI 0 £ 9. ০ ZI QI‏ 0 - و II 1 ০৪‏ ً0 — 
aI‏ 0 1 0 سس — آ1 ০ ZI QI 09 ZI‏ — 
0৪ LI 09 ZI 1 0 ZI Ol‏ — 1 91 و OI‏ 8 0 سس 
٤ ۲ 0 0 OL - সস 0 0 OL 0 0 ٢‏ 0 سے 
LI 09 LI — 0s LI 0 8 1 0০৪ LI‏ 01 8 سے 
৪ 08 ۲‏ 8 0 سے سس 8s ٢‏ 0 1 0 — 
6I‏ 08 آ6 8 0 ٤1‏ 0 _ آ6 8 0 !6 ৪‏ 0 ہے 
*F 8I‏ 0 آ8 ۴ 0 سم — 1 ۶غ 0 1غ 0 سے 
০ 1 0 0 02 0 0 |6‏ 1 0 91 0 — 
ay | "এ ‘se ‘sy‏ و w sy jd -e ‘sy ied w "গু |" -e -sy | -d sy id‏ ک۶ | ‘ey‏ 


vileg 
:انت‎ 
چوجوہ0تا‎ 


(d "04৬৬০, 
(zvqIq) چر٭جدہ‎ 


** (৯০107015 voordey,) (urqoop) ০59 

রঃ is 1109 
১০) ا‎ 
ae ae ony 
7 (0078 09020794010) 79988 


2 ® ee ee 


7 (qefung 29) yvouq Ay 
(doqg corg eq) (uourut0g) sony, 
** MON—(sj0uTepEg) (993৪০) corny 
°* PIO—(s0urspeg) زوموجەہ)‎ ০০ 
"* sON—(B30urTTeT) (زومەیوەہ)‎ cory 
#9N—(Joqqreursy) (umrpepy) cory 
PIO—{(Zoyqqieursy) (02০7) cony 
"* MON (93510) (0০709) corny 
i PIO—{ v.80 yy) (02007) corny 
و‎ 4১91 (9৪৫07) (ourg) ০০ 
PIO—(resdny) (9) cory 
°° MON ——~(WIUeutessyg) (9০) cory 
** PlO—(Jorrvureseyg ) (90) ০০ 


*sj¥ele9 


৬২৬ 


"۸۹۲00010100 


"৪967 Arensge4 80 رس٥‎ 043 801410) رہ وھردمپوہ‎ (0115778 9554985) 55779) Aupuegsny 158/18৬ pus [81317191495 40 8991380 ejesejou AA 


497 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAIXUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956‏ 
পিস‏ 
ہ ہ ہ ہ ہ ہہ ہہ ہ ہہ ৩০০০০০০০০০৩০০০০৩০০৩৩০৩‏ 
০০‏ ط ہ ہ ہ ٭٭ ہہ ہ 00 ৩৭ ০৯‏ ہ بب =p‏ 55ہو ٭ دہ وہ وہ و مان دو 
ہجو লিন‏ "55888 ویو دو یھو سرت টি‏ 


৩১৩১ ৩১৫১ ৩ ৯৩১ ৩০৩১৩৯১৩১৩৯‏ 6 ب6 ہ ہہ ت ي بن یىی ہ6 ٭ ہہ 6 ہ6 ٦‏ ى تب م ہم 
ہے ON‏ 
٭ہ وع ہ دہ ০৯ ০০‏ دہ ہے رح دہ ہہ HON‏ زع সপ ই‏ 
6৭ 03‏ 05 کی دہ 6ء ن 8১ ৩০১ ৩১‏ ي ৪‏ چی ہم ضر تی ہج 
ہے ہ ہے جچے ہے ہے ہے ہے پے کے وچ یج ہے بے سے 6৭‏ ہے 5-۶٤۴‏ وہہ 


ہ حً ہت ہہ و ح تب تج یىی ت ہہ ےہ 6 6 بن ں تب یب ین بت ہت ہ ت6 9 6 6 ب ০১৫১ ০১ ৩১ ০১ ০০‏ 

جع Pot 08D‏ 0 بی ال 5 63 ot‏ 6 61 6 56 جہ ق ہہ ؛٭- ص সত ৩০১‏ ک 90 82 ১ ৬০ ০১০০ 6 ৩৮‏ وّہ 52 ৫০‏ 
مہ بے (১‏ = مع ہپ ہے وع ہس ہہ بط دص پت 

5828881988825 لس سا ید ہے سا HOERR SAE‏ 


তা‏ ش2222 ٥ے‏ :سن سس|سھ,پھ رش ەج ھ و جج وووچ جےچکچجچ ھإھڈھچےے.۔۔حجسسو وپ -ص- وو س وسادووتتو ‏ چو و رس ججیجی۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔۔_-_  .‏ شڈ 


০১ ৩১৩১‏ ہہ ৩ ৩১ ৩১ ৩১ ৩১‏ تہ ں یں ت ب نے ہہ( وں تن یىی بن ن تہ ن و ت٥‏ ٭ وت ہی ہہ ہہ 

প ০১ ০১ ৫১ و‎ 90 60 ৩১ 00 00 খা ৩১ ০০ ০১ ৩১ جو‎ ৩১৩১ ০০১৩ ৩১৩০ ہہ ےہ‎ ১ ع‎ 60 ৩ 00 ০০ ہ و ہو ہے‎ 
٠ ™ WANA We ہم‎ 

০7০৮১1৮৮৮০৮ 582888858858855 


0ٹ سصسسسیئ۷ئ ئک کپ یئی مت شش ০১১১‏ 


৩৩১৩১৩১৩১৩১ ৩০৩০৩০৩১৩১৩ ০১৩১০৪০‏ ب ৩১ ৩১৩১ ৩০৩১‏ ج ৩১ ৩১৫১ ৩১ ৩১৩১৩১৩১৩০১ ৩১‏ یہی 
ہب يہ دہ ت بصن بر یب نٹ و مو ہك تن ہہ ہت ہ و ১০০৩০৩১৩০৯৩‏ یىی ০০ ০০‏ 6ت 00 90 ت ০০৩১ ৩০ বং 20 ০০‏ ے 
الو 
بر 
لح لح 6৭‏ 
5888881888882859 ٤غ‏ 8288728056 285 65ہ নি‏ 
ওরাই‏ 
eoqooeoeooocoeococoececoecoo eeoocoecoocecocooco‏ 
৩১০০৩‏ ىے٭ مہ 620 ৩১ ৩১ ৩০ ৩ 00 00 বকা ৩১‏ مہ ن ن ن ০১ 3০ ০০ ৩১ ৩১ ০০ ৩‏ 96 00 ت ৩১ 62 বা! 92 9১‏ بی 
ت 1 AN ১১০১ @ kX‏ یىی یہ یىی ہ! تی = 89 لے الس eg me NE BS SS‏ ےس نے اس تاس )سج 
ہم ہم بم بس جم ہم ہم جم ON তথ ON OU 6৭ CN‏ ہم 5 چج سر et‏ ہم ہے - ed eed‏ جم ہے سم بسم ped‏ سم CO‏ ہم a‏ 
৬১১১ cS‏ 
ہج ہہ ৩১০১৩১৩০১৩১ ৩০৩১৩১৩০১৩১ ٥ےہ ০৩১৩১৩১৩০০১ ৩১৩৩১৩১৩১৩১‏ ٭ ৩১৩১৩০৮০১৩১‏ 
৩৩৭৩১‏ ٭ ০০০০‏ ہ ہ ہ ٭ ৯ ০০ 6 ০০ ০‏ 
E 58888883198988:‏ 528288 55× ئ88 دہ 


১১১১৪০০০০০১ ডিসিসি 


Md. 


*Controlled commodity. The pricee represent the rates at which licensed retailers get their supplies from Govermmnent. 


৬৯ —‏ ؤآ 
রর %‏ ےك ا و ٭ ہک و of‏ 
নিলি রী‏ ےم : 7ھ : 
2828৭‏ 8ہ 88ت یتو PN‏ رہ مر وک 
ই 252‏ راس تو 
রি‏ 
کی ند এ‏ بت زیت یہ یح ہی ا می او می 5৪555‏ 
۶ك 8 পানা‏ 
1101 10111 


ae 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


498 


009 oor fo o 07 {0 0 001 সপ 09 0 ০00 fo 0 oor | 0 9 oot | 0 0 ০0 = a (pesye pazpung) ynuypsjog 

09 SI ell [0 O BIT |09 O ۲ — 0 O 1ج0(‎ "SN "SN SN 7 ee ہے‎ (০7890) چموہصو‎ 
[১৫ 00917 146 pug 

মের‏ (8وہ-143معہ) 5 53 IIT 40 0 FOI [O 8 ৪0 —_ 099 ZIT 109 0 601 10 O 60 [0 O FOI‏ مج می 

0 0 O11 [0 0 901 10 ৪ ৪01 ہے‎ 00 SII 10 0 80 |0 09 60? |0 O کن 1م‎ গড রি a 
[১০৫ 0711 0107 PIE 

0 0 80 10 1 0 0 WI — 0 0 OI 0 09 60? 0 09 60 | 0 O 0901 she 4৫ (rddary) چو صو‎ 

0 09 61 0 0 61 0 0 06 — 0 0 & 0 0 02 0 0902 0 0 8I sis hs (pousajou yp) (uno) ০৩ 

0 F & 0 O €&8 0 8 ক? و 0 0 82 090 سم‎ 0 0 & 0 0 02 ‘PA ٠٠ (৮5৪৪০10) (NOR) Pessray 

AL‏ یو ZI 0 0 ٢ 0 0 2 0 ০ 1 5999 ٠ azoddeg‏ 0 0 سے آج ZI 0 O‏ 0 0 آج 0 و 

09009 10 ]جوم مہ — 1 8 19 96 غ‎ 1009 Off | 0 O Off | 0 O 067 see ریا‎ bs seddeg ٤5 

0 0 9ج‎ 0 8 69 0 ZI وو 00 ا 0 0 —_ وج‎ 0 0 Ls و‎ 909 LS এ a 5 (নাল) 10 
0582 7991 446 pug 

0 8 89 0 6 6F 0 0 وو 0 0 هو 09 0 جع 00 — وع‎ 0 0 0৫ ج2‎ ne °° (چڑوجحہدم)‎ 0ম, 

8 ₹ و 09 0 0 09 0 0 09 0 0 — و( 0 0 9 0 0 ےو‎ 0 09 os ca تہ‎ (opozg) Seu, 
P1EZ 0021 001 Pig 

9 ৪ 6 و‎ ক L 090 4% — OO: 0 0 ہل‎ 002 0OoL8 oa si __ (pees (سبوو‎ যান, 

0 F ق‎ 0 O OLE | 0 ZI &6 سے‎ 0 0 0০0 10 0 2৪ 0 0 06 0 0 آ1‎ কা 9 (40) 1 

Oo F SI 0 তা &I 6 8 SI —_ 0 0 OI 0 0 و٢‎ 0 0 9I 0 0 GI کو نو لس‎ (09০৪0) +010 

0 9 &I 0 ZI OI 0 F II পা 0 0 &I 0 0 TI 0 0 Il 0 0 II = 7 টা رق یں ئن‎ 
7462 097 6 pug 

0 ক এ 08 ا‎ 0 8 6 — "SN "SN 9 8 6 এ es ٠ oe, (0৪০0) 0 

0 67 و‎ 0 6 ٢ 0 ٤ 6 — 0 818 0 و9‎ 0 0 OI 0 1 ‘PA | °° (Avquiog) +00 

"saoids 
-d “9g "st ‘d ٠ي‎ ay | ا:7‎ "2 "su ٠۰3 নদ ‘sy ‘d "2 ا‎ ৪1 :سے‎ ob | “d چو‎ "847 ‘d ‘9 "sy 
ce : — P1EZ 021 107 Pig 
৫061] 0961 9939৭ 
وی ینک ا انیٹ‎ Ayo | টা টি শা] 8و‎ ৪৩), 


jo 989594৯৮ ] jo 98939 


“0067 Aaenaqes ارہ‎ 915591081% 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE; AUGUST 2, 1956 


oe 


০০৩০০০৩ 


১০০০৩ শা 
4 


2 272 812 2 
6টি سم‎ ٥9 


سے 

HAA 
ضر سے وم ےج پچ‎ 
سم وج‎ ۴۹ 


০০৩০০৩০৩ 


22 
GRSAAS 


tT: 
= 


SARS 


eooooe 


০৩১০১৩১০০০১ 


کا ہے اج GSS‏ 
চিঠি‏ سم مع 


স্পস্ট 


(Small) 


নু 

এ 
855 
و تے‎ 
ৃ 1۲ 
Rist 
৪282৪ 
aa দি 
11 
MMS Si 


are solo‏ بجکوعوجہ 


23rd. 


322 8 O 


ط17 
9 8 322 


3rd 


322 8 9 


317 8 9 


322 8 9 


322 8 9 


Cloves (Zanziber) 


23rd 


৩৯৩১ ০৯০৮ نب بت‎ 


SOc qomn 
pool 


০ 


৩১০০১০৩০০০৩ 
٭ و ہہ و ت بجی‎ 


را وہ 
وچ ۵۳0 )۲ oO‏ 


67 


৩০৩০ و ہہ‎ ৩১৩১ 
مث‎ ০৩৯ ت ت‎ বত 
لے‎ 


MOO ৮০ ৩৩ 
سم چیم‎ LD 2৩ 5৭ 


৩১০১০৩১৩০৬১ 
ہن‎ ০৯৩০ بت‎ ৩৮৩০ 


ANS is aa 


تب ০‏ وپ و ৩৮‏ تن 


تن و ہ ৩০‏ و بن 4 


রটে 
০ 


Sth 


2nd 


» 


Ajwan (Big) 


ہ تب ت و مت یی 


ت ہہ ৫১‏ تب ৩১‏ 


جج 855 


০৯০১ ০৯ ৩৮ ৩১ ৯১ 
৩০১৩০৩০০৮৩১ 


DO تپ‎ 8০ 5 


i 
Qa DUI 0 1 


inseed (Zeera) (Cleaned) 


Cumminseed (Zeera) (Uncleaned). . 
Black Cummin (Kala Zeera) 


Methiseed 


wan (Small) 


J 


‘AG 
Cumm 


ie Cpe ققةے مق‎ পাই তিশা | শী শি el 


জর রশ এর ররর ee es ররর oe: 


০০৩ 
oo ج‎ 
00 

5 چہ 
تن oo‏ 
ow ©‏ 
~g হ‏ 
|= 

eo ৩ 
ow © 
"ys 
om 


ig 0 90 19 0 9 19 0 9 19 0 9 


Seer 


(Elachi) 


(Mysore). 


pong}. 
Cardamom 


Cardamom (Elachi) (Large) (Kalim- 


Myrobalan (West Bengal) 


2nd 


6 ت‎ 
WN 


ال۔ ہہ 
اسم 


Nutmeg (Jaiphal) (with shell) 


Mace (Jaitri) 


17+5 


ساس 
পর‏ 
oe ٦ ৩১৩‏ 
Ss:‏ 
2م 
& 
ہے y‏ 
B95‏ > 
oes‏ © ہے 
১0‏ اب ج 
ro নু‏ 
শ্রী ০‏ 8 
A,‏ سوہ 
245 کے 
“egy‏ صےحہ ہے a.‏ 
33 
تب + 
Eee‏ 


Potato (Jaunpur) 
Potato (Bihar) 
Sweet Potato 


Sweet Pumpkin 


Country Beans 


N.S.=No Supply. 


500 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 
চর বসে ০ 


] | 
ےو ہ ৩ ৫১‏ ےہ ہ ১৩০০০‏ پ ہہ ہہ جتہہہ তু 7٦ ৩০৩১৩০৩০৩০১‏ 2 
৬ 7 ۱‏ 
৩৭3‏ ہہ ০২‏ ہ ہ ہ ہ ৩০‏ ہ٭> 5's d ৮৮০৯-০১-০৯‏ = 
৬৪ ৬০ ৬১‏ 18 مہ 69 A ৮ 9০ বধ ৮ I‏ مہ ٭ ہ چ OD mt BE‏ ~ 
এ ea‏ | ٭ 
= 
SGeo0o0o00000000mooooqooooo ৩০০৩০০০০৩৩১‏ .2 52 
رم ہ وہ ٭. ٭ تی ہ ০9০ AWAD Hwa‏ ہ و ৭ ০০‏ جہ جہ> ৩১‏ ٭ ہ 0২‏ ٭> is is F 2 ৩‏ 
سم 
٦‏ 
৬১ OS ২৩ ৫ ×× ৫১ ৫০ ২৯‏ تہ مہ ই 60 ৩১ ১৮ ৩১ ৯৯ 6৩‏ مر 82 کہ ৩০‏ کہ ৯০‏ ی ছু 00 0০0 2৩ ০১‏ £ 
رسس pad‏ بسم چج on‏ بسم سم wed‏ ہم چم ٠‏ سوج 
ed‏ < 
০১৩১০০০০৩০৩‏ تب ہہ ہہ ٭پ تب ہ ہہ ہہ ہ ہ ہ ہ ہ ہ ہ 9 ہہ ہہ 71 
bo‏ 
ہ و چہ جہ جہ وپ پ a & ONDDONSWDOWDONDONONBHOWHO‏ 
سم سم سم ہم = = ہے Se Pr]‏ 
صر 16 90 جہ جہ جہ ৩৩ ₹০‏ ہ 8 ১‏ بی - مو ৫১‏ < نت -- ہ ৩১‏ ی ৪০ 6৭‏ دی ےپ لے ৫২‏ ےی 3 
سم سے سم سم = = QQ‏ اصع = Ss 3 N‏ 


١٠٠۹8 ._۱(_١ا11‎ 1 ۰ ۵1۸۹ 2-06۲ 


7 ০০০০০০ ۔ ہہ ہً ہہ ہہ ہہ‎ ০০০০ ০১০০১০৩০৩০০ 
১. 
met পর ৩ ৩০৩০১৩০১০১০১.১০১৩০ ০১৩০০১৩০১৩০ ہ ہ ہ ہہ مہ بج ہ ہ ہ‎ ৩০ ০১ ٭‎ ০০ ৩ ১ 
7 a ৬০. ہے‎ 10 
6 ٥ ہ‎ 3২০০ ৮- ৮৮ ہ ہہ‎ ২২০271০০28৬ ہہ‎ Q ৫০ وہ‎ 6৭ وہ‎ ৪১ ضص‎ 
: بے ہم‎ CO ہے وم‎ om جم سس ےم پم‎ 


§ 7 ৩১০১৩০১৩০১০ ہ!+٭ہہ ہج ہہ ہہ ہہ ہہ ہہ‎ ০০০১৩০১৩০৩৩ 
=| r- : ০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০০২০০০০০ g ০০২ -্০০১৩ 
6 x 7 রি 7 no a 
ہج ہے‎ 2২ ০2৮৮ ও ہ ہہ ےہ2‎ পি ہے ہ وہ ہ ہ ہ - ہ ہ تہ ع ہ‎ €০ে তত وہ جچہ‎ ৪১ SD 
an ہم پر یم ہر ہم ہے ہےم ہم‎ 
7٦ ০০১০১০৩০১৩০ ہہہهہ ہہ ہہ ہہہ ہہ ہہ‎ ৩০০১৩০৩০৩১৩ 
و‎ ০০০০০০৮০০০০০০০০০০০২০৩০০৩৩ ০০ ৫১ ی>٭>‎ ৩১৩০৩ 
ঞ 


8১ ৫১ ১‏ وہ 6২‏ وہ یت ৩2৩০ ৫২2০ ০২৩০‏ ہ ج ہی ہ ف27 ٭ 2২০৮‏ چے و 
لے | لے سو ضس سے GN‏ 


6 ن ہ‎ ৫১ ৩১ ৩১ بن ہ ہ ہ‎ ৩১ ৫৯ ৩১ ٭ ہ‎ (১ (১৩১ بت‎ ৩১৩১৩০৩০১৩১ OO0O0000 
F یہ ہہ ہ ہ  ت 6 دہ ہ ہ ہ ہ ہ ٭ ہ 6 ہ ہ ٭ 6 6 6 6 6 ہ‎ - 66 


3rd 


OSOMWAGEeE لق‎ বাং دہ مک‎ ২১ ہے‎ ৩০ 6 س تق یت‎ ৩০ تہ ہے‎ ৮6২০ HB DWAA 69 ما‎ ৪989 
6৭ پر ہم بسم سم‎ ond نم ہم ہم ہے‎ 


Unit. 


ud (Uchhe) .. 


Cabbage ( Murshidabad) 
Cauliflower (Local) 


Peas 


ae 
: 
) 
Mozambique (Sweet Lime) 


Fruits (Fresh). 


Commodity. 


Potato and Vegetables—concid. 
Chilli 
(Local) 
Orange (Darjee 


Orange (Nagpur) 


Wholesale prices. 
Bittergroud (Karela 
Papaya (Green) 
French Beans (Local 
Tomato (Local) 
Knolkhol (Local) 
Carrot (Punjab) 


Green Plantain 
G 


Bitte 
Peas (U. P.) 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 501 


ও ৩১৩০০০৩০০৩০ ہہ ہ‎ o ہہ ٭‎ ০১৩০১০৩০০০৩ ০০৩০৩ 
بت‎ 63৩ ৫৩ ৫১ ০০ ০৮ ০০ ৩ wae ہہ چ بع ہہ 6 ہے 6 9 ہے ہ‎ ০০ 2২ ٭ ہ‎ 
۔-ح‎ 3 ao ل‎ 
٭ ص ریم‎ 2 9 SRS পল © ج۴ 5ع‎ 62 m8 81295. 
এ ہے ہم ٭‎ CY بسم ہم ہم‎ 
০১০০০০০০০১০ ৩৮ ৩০০ oo نج ت تن نان نین ٴ ت9٥٥ ہے ںی نتم ن‎ 
ہو ے‎ ১০০ ৯ > ০ HO ہ ہپ ہی پ مہ‎ ০০ ہ دہ‎ ০০ ٭ ہ ہ‎ ৩১০০ ہ‎ ٥ہ‎ 
اس سے‎ 
HN اہن چج بے یی چھ بے يقي‎ 
19 010 OS و‎ oo 19 2 Se he 2 সা 22 
m= ہے‎ তি — زس پم‎ 
ن ہی ہ  0 و ہ ً و وی‎ ooo ن ت‎ ৩১ ৩ ৩৩৩১০১৩১০৩০ ০০1 
০১ ہپ و‎ ৯ ব্খা ০০0 ০০ ৩১০০ ৩১ تہ پ پ‎ ৩১০০ ০১ ৩১ ৯ ৩১ ৩১ 90 00 دہ جہ‎ ০০ وہ ہ‎ 
এ QA ay 
مع‎ 8 হু নে 88552525255 ৪১৪৪ 


me রর‏ چچ ae‏ سے و তি সহ রুনু বর হা ররর এ রর সর‏ ہے سس یی اھ ایا 


11111111 IT 111 | 11111 1111 | 1 | | 


@eooooooeo بت ب‌ ثت  ب٥ا ۓ ں ت یت تہ ں تن تن ت ت ہہ‎ 2 ০১ ০৯৩০৯ بن‎ 
০৩০১০১৩১৩০১৩১৩১৩০১ a ج نہ ہ — ہ‎ OOooooo0000 a ین ہہ بن‎ 0 
: e 
geoongen নী ene % ৪৪5 8 88588588255 ঈ ৪৪৪৪ 
om سے ےس وج ہس‎ 
পারার 
ہی‎ ৩১৫১৩১৩১৩৩১ ০০১৩৮ ১ ৩১০ ن ن یىی یو یں بب ہیی‎ Oooo 
‘ سم ~~ بس‎ 
£০৩,১০২৪১০ 2০5 7 SES 88958858822 2255 
بے یم‎ OD بس‎ ome سے‎ 
চি ১১ 
৩১ ৫১ یىی تہ‎ ১৩০৩১ oo ت‎ ৩১ ৬১৩১ ৩ ৩১ ہ وا ں ہے ں‎ ooo تن‎ 
٠ ~~ ا‎ ৮০০ 
ZeOMPNSeRQ “ 23S “ SES 78528285862 ۔‎ SBSH 
om سم‎ GYD =~ = سم‎ 
০০১৩১ ৩১৩১৩১৩০১৩০ ooo ৩১০০৩ ৩ ৩১ ০১৩১৩১৩০৩১১ و" و — بت‎ 
১৩১৩১০০৩১৩৯ ৩১ پر ر‎ ooo 7 ہی‎ ৩১ ۳ ৩১৩১ ০১ نہ‎ ৩১৩১৩১০০৩১০) ہی ہو ہ بے‎ 
7 اص‎ 
Se“"“SS28 =" 24S ٹ‎ SES ৮8225895589825ঞ75 ৬৪5৬০ 
ent سد زس سم وج‎ গজ 
ات‎ Qo 8 লে 238 @ rj ৪ 
a ھ‎ & a t a © a a 8৬ خ3 @ ھی‎ & 8 a , f= 
2 کہ و سا ا ا سک ا‎ » ই ৪2222 হত s 


ay 7 
کے ےرت ۱ 15 کے ری ےہ‎ এ 
ই এ রং ie 2 نے‎ 
teat ia ডি lana ie 
افو‎ 2 Uh Gli eh پٹ‎ 
51 11 1 luda ও 
گرا تا‎ রে SS শু ই AR ۵6 


N. ৪.০ Supply. 


, AUGUST 2, 1956 


| 
44 


MENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE 


۹٦ 
ر1‎ 


SUPPLI 


502 


0 ٤ StI 


eo‏ ے ج 
دم ہت م9 
یمر 

a0 مہ‎ 
1 ৮০ 
سم‎ 


৩৩০০০‏ ے 
مہ টি ০০‏ ےت 
কঃ‏ 
fed‏ 
| | 


d, ৯৩ 
بج‎ 
اس‎ 
~~ 
it~ 
سم‎ 


]آ1 
3017 گ 


ہو وے 
ت وپ و بت 


2, ৬০৩ 


0 8 1 


৬০০ 
কা ت‎ 
t 
6৭ 


9867 
Arsnue |" 


jo 98৪3০ | jo ০8৪০৮ 


“9961 ۸48112083 


ہ ت یىی ےب 


oo 


d ০৩ 


0 1 


হী ت‎ 
re 
Nn 


ہ تہ و ب 
5 


8یدروگو* 
.1۲۲(20[7]کھ 


"৪০7৪ 


oe‏ ہے 


eoo°o 


2) ০৯০০ 


& © تج بت 6 چ جي 


শা 


اون 


دہ چھرو مد )0 Cd‏ 


(অনা) qreuBy ০০ 
(4০050) 9০12) 


۱ 


18ء (zeqrg)‏ (99م) 


. (০971৪) (3৪78) +6 
(সওডঠন) ھ2‎ 


7٤‏ (مررمچہ) 


(৬০১) 11 


৯118 pus YW‏ ینیر لی تب 


(9০7 ئ٠ (ج(‎ (qsery) ک۳ جد‎ 
(011g 17০২7) 7৪0৫ 99০50 
(০০ [Feqoy) 9০77] 

cd (ot ৩০ পু) 3০০৭ 


(77519, ০) ০০০৪ 

** (08194, aary) yong 
(37819 aary) دزدہہ‎ 
(2879 eary) 1০ 


"50180 81659108 


ت بت چ تہ ہ ہہ ٭ ‏ ت ہ تہ ت ہہ و ت ہ ٭ تب ہ یی وہ 
শর শ৩০৩০০৩‏ ٭ و at‏ ب و جم و ب 2 ہ ٭ ৩১ ৩০‏ مھ بت ے ০০৬ লে টি‏ می 
rm tm ~‏ ~ 
sR স 323833‏ “ ووووع ۵8٤‏ § چرھع a‏ 

ت جج ہ — eo‏ ہ و و وپ ہ Ceo eooeeooeoooe‏ 
ت ہ 6ت ہ ےہ ب ہہ 2 a ooo Z Sooeoooseo : ০৩০০০৫‏ 
৪2882‏ 8 جع = ٤ ৪৪৪৪‏ 8م "8 এ‏ 

٭ ہے 6 ب و ہ ه و و جج ہ ৩১০ eocecocoeooo‏ 
৩০০‏ ےت পু‏ ہ ٭ یچ و و ৩১৩৩৮০০৬৩৩০ ৩১০৩০‏ ی al oe@ a‏ 

6১ ۵‏ ود 
g°g “ esgegesee “ eegeR “= 88 = S2gee‏ = 

at met ہے‎ তি ৪৯ ہ جہ‎ 
a er aaa. ae 

a @oooooeooceo Ceooe — و‎ ০৮৩ ০০৩ 
ooo هب بت ٭ ہت بت پچ ت  6 بت‎ 2 ৩১ ৩০ ৩১ ب‎ ও তা eoeoe 
৩ 2৮৪ * جو ہے اع‎ RS ৪৪৩ ° BR ৪228৮ 

হে Skee পতন ০ ঠে* এ ia 

3 93۹۹ھ‎ ۹+3 ٦۷ tee ہے ہے کے‎ hb 

re. inn 8 

gs ৭ 

ا ہے مر کم ৪‏ 

প্র 23 SEER R 

Bow‏ ا a gue , iitig § BF s‏ 8+ یچ 
pom 7 ‘OF = SSS‏ § _- « 

3 2 of চু 8 $ سح ا‎ 

= = as ৯ 289 এ 5 دج دے‎ 8 

প্র ও 8 td শত 2 পি i ভুলি ry‏ ہے 

a وت‎ সহ £ i گج‎ চা হে 

৮ ও soe ০76 ® ৬ ج6 ما ہم‎ @ 8 od بد مل‎ fat Fol 
62০ 8:2 8 8 لیف‎ 5852 
248 ies oe nam ثھ‎ 
ڑا‎ 88171 all a ৮ 
৮5: 
এসএ হরে 2462 $a ماما‎ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTT& GAZETT 


ee ee ৮ ০ 


K, AUGUST 2, 1956 


= আল সপ সক * সীট তত শি শ ے سے‎ পাপন ও সপ ہوووچڑ‎ হজ, ০ 


ہے ً ہي ہہ وہ ہہ ০০০ ৩০০৩৬৩০০৩০০‏ 
৫৯ বধ সতী oO বা © ০০০০2 ow ©2000‏ ہي 1৫ 6৭ ০৯ ৩6 ০0‏ 
mA ৩১‏ 
وہ سج ۶ 5৪338235328‏ جج on‏ 
পা‏ وھ ڈو یج ہے > 
اوجیں__ کس 
০৩০ ৩০০০৩ ৩ ৩ cooce ০০ ৩০০০৩‏ 
oe © ৩৩৩০৩ ৩১‏ بت ي ےج ےہ 6 و ے ت جج بے یہی ০১ ৫৯ &১‏ 
سج 
جج مع ہے ےط 
a & 8520৭15525১ 2৪৪2 ٦ 25925‏ 
OD‏ بج 2২ OD‏ ہے بسم 
ت و ہ ৩৯ ৩৮‏ ب ہے ہ و ےب ہہ ৩১‏ ت ہ٭ ق ے بت جي ہہ تک بب coe‏ 
ت ‏ ت ي ‏ ےج مہ مو ن ৩১‏ بی یب و یىی مہ مہ HOD ৩০‏ تہ ooo‏ 
جم جہ مو 
2৪৪৪৭ BR 25255‏ 29518285828 ج8 S°‏ 
وہ ON‏ 69 یم সপ‏ = 


۸۱ 


1۱ 


N. 8.=Ne. Supply. 


504 


February 1956. 


Wholesale prices. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


tes d, Coowooocooe 20 6 শু শু 
pig | 4 পরত ৩০০ iyi] یق‎ 
oa تہ‎ ৫৭ ৮১৩০ ১০01০ ৫১ 6৭ 6৭ WO rs مه‎ ১১ 
পা 7 اسم اس‎ টি 
4 ce 
ts 6. ১ শে ৩ ৩২ و ٭ پ‎ ৩ ہ‎ ০০৩ শু শু ©2oe7eoo ہ‎ © 
বু g ع ہہ ےس ما‎ সা ৩00৩0 صہ‎ চি ° ০০০০০ 7 
= |, کو ری ید یت سور‎ 6g 
র্‌ 2 
ছি রাজারবাগ? 
1 ہہ و 9ة ہ ہّ  ے ہہ‎ ৩১০১ ہہ ہہ ہہ و یہ لح ا‎ সে 
> , 00 ت بی رف ہے وو‎ ১ یىی‎ 90 তথ ৫৭ ৬১ 60 ہ‎ ৫১ ৫৭ مہ وہ -< ہ‎ ৪ 
2 গত ہم ہم )سم‎ od nnd 
8 
۳۷۷9ء ۃ‎ 83 8 R 8ش 8888882ة‎ 
= ৫ ca 
ro 
| oe 1[ | | ۱ , ۱۹ | 
2) ০৩০০৩০০০০০০ ہہ‎ - ৩ ৩০০০০১০৩০০৩ © 
a 3 ২৩৫9 ৫০ Fe وہ دھ‎ ৯৯ ہہ یہ جہ‎ Ow Ay of ASnIKSH Am 
§ & ১০০১০০০০০০০ শ০৩ শ © ০১৩০০১০৩০৩৩ = 
es ৫১ ০১ ০০ ৩১ বা ১ ৩ 
এ রি نے‎ ০০০০০০৩৩০০৫ ক ৩০ ° ge و‎ 4 wt وت‎ 
ڈ5 ہہ ووعہہہ>‎ ae ويڈ‎ “Rk ججبپیوووے‎ হর 


7 পি ہن ہی‎ ৩১৩১৩১৩১৩০৩ ৩৩ সস © ৩০০১০১০১০১৩ 
02 স্থা 6৭ 2১ 0১ بن‎ 02 55 © @ oi کٹ‎ ৩০১০১ بب لؤ تن‎ © 
اسم‎ Mo ہہ‎ ۵ OS کے دی‎ 0۵ Es Gh 8 5 = 2 pac سن‎ eee ee 


eoooocoocoos 


90 02 সা ১৩১০০৩১০০০০ oo 


7th 


Mustard (Bold other than yellow) .. 


Oll seeds. 


Groundnut (undecorticated) 


Castor 


Cattle Fodder. 


Wheat Bran 
Rice Bran 


Commodity. 
Masur Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 
Khesari Bhuai ae 
Kheeari Bhusi (Chuni Mixed) 
Arhar Bhusi (Chuni mixed) 


Gram Chuni 
Linseed (Small) (Bihar) 


Ti (Sisamum) 


ب ہہ 
ت )00 


جج 


Mustard (Yellow) (U. P.) 


Mustard (Yellow) (Gujrat) 
Rai (U. P.) 


৩১৩১৩১৩০১৩০ 
০০ ০১৮৩১ ০0 ي‎ 


ON ৪৪‏ ہہ چیي 
৮‏ وی ہی 6৭ 5৭‏ 


Lotni (East Punjab) .. 
Toria (East Punjab) .. 
Mahua (Bihar) 


Kajri (M. P.) 


Oth 


505 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


০১ 2১ ت‎ 


Ir ৪ 


6 94 
OI 9 


نت و ৩‏ 


oO তি 
৪০ ৫১ 


চি ঘট 
5 Ig 
929 


Or 9 
éI 2৪ 


éI ৪ 


ooo 


0 
él 


6F 
85 


ہ بج 


بت ৩১‏ ب 


ت بت 


چر on="g‏ ع۸۱00“ 


0 I 
۳'6 


9 


৩‏ بت 


ooo 


জে‏ ہ 


تم 


ک0 
01" 
L‏ ۴ 
WLI‏ 


ooo : 


oo 


O° 


— ৬১ 


৩১৩১৩ 


৩‏ وہ 


"PR 


زنس 5 


(jeBucg 48044) preqenpy 


(9590০ 349044) چر.ہ٭‎ 
(5598. 39044) preysnyy 
(oquzo0fog) 080000صو‎ 


°- (Suvueg) 7200০0০ 
0 LA F 


(95095 78044) poceury 


ST 2, 1956 


1 
a 


CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ۲ 


۹ 
q 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE 


506 


| 
| 


0 0 | 0 21 58ج‎ 
0 ৫0৮92 تم‎ ج٢‎ LZ 
6و ۲ 0 ٭ج چج 0م‎ 
00 8ج‎ 0 ZL 6و‎ 
و‎ কা 8€ 0 ₹62 
09 OI If و‎ 8s I€ 
09 OF IF و‎ FL IE 
0 9 কচ 9 91 &€ 
0 OL 68 09 07 08 
0 0 8৪ 09 5 
8 £€ SE و‎ F LZ 
02 9৪8 Oo ٤6 
غ م‎ 02 10 ক جو‎ 
9৪ 991 10 0 SPI 
0 0 SLI [0 O FSI 
0 O 821 10 1 
0 ZI ৪ [0 8 68 
09 GI ৪৫ |0 8 ৪6 
9 F چو‎ 0 0 OL 
0 0 06 10 09 022 
0 FI OL 0 FI 6 
0 #1 OF 09 FI 09 
09 ۶] 6 0 3 89 
0 © Sst [0 0 6 


“61 9951 
4550.109, 1 Arenue er 
jo 985০৮ | jo e#vioay 


9968 ۸48014033 


OOo © ecoceoeoooso 


৩১৩১৩১০০৩০৩ 


eooqooooo 


*d چ۔‎ "et 


ے ي ٭٭ مہ کن ٥ہ‏ ہے 6٥‏ جت 


0 
0 
۴ 
او‎ 
FI 
2 


85 
06 
85 
25 
OF 
€& 
نت‎ 
LE 
کا6‎ 


66 


86 
2 


TEI 
81 
PFI 
66 
18 
£৪ 


OL 
022 
56 
og 
99 
28 


১98. 8943 
01707 


td‏ "و" 


১ 
নথি 
আত 
ہصس-ے‎ 
রা 
পারার 


eo ৩০ ০১০১৩০৩১৩১৩ بت ت تب‎ 
থকা © تن تیج‎ ৩১০৮ ৩১ ۵ ت تيب‎ 
৮২ 
০০) 


تہ ہ6 مہ ہ ب6 


০১০১৩০৩০১৬১ 
= 
a 
৩১ 
گا‎ 


3 


০০ © eocococecoeoooso 
০০ تب ت و ہت تيب ہہ ہہ‎ 

بن 

6? 


৩১ ৩১ ০১৩৯ ০৯ 


৩১৩১ ین‎ ০১০৩০ 
১৪ 
= 
چہ‎ 
نت‎ 


ہ بب و بي ہہ ہہت eo o‏ 


৩০০১৩০১০১৩৩ 


৩১০১০০৩১০০৩ 


90 ০১ ৩১ 00 ৩ یی ہہ‎ ৩১৩ 
اسم‎ 
oO 


للا 


ب و ب وہ ہ ہہ م)م''ہ CO‏ 


৩৩১৩১৩১৩১৩১ 


٭ جب و ৩১‏ بت جن 


96 
08 
65 
86 
1g 
৪6 
৪৮ 
LE 
66 


০০ ০১ ০১ 00 ৩১ بی‎ ce 


08 


N 


এ 56 
& 86 


pug 
eel 


81 
orl 


Qoooqooeo 
ئک‎ 
نت‎ 


0গা7-5088‏ 0 زرمںدمہ) (5০0০)‏ سر 

7 (1958০) (০০০০5) dutay-uueg 

oe "Tf "0201 

ee ০০ (qu5Iut1)) چرہمر‎ 

** (svuesing-FZ 1 60نہ8‎ TYSeCT) ০70 

ui  (059৭915) (9100৭ ৪০৪) eqns 

(QIPPIAY 0৪৪) ع صوہ‎ 

৮" (oTPPUW ‘yep (وووسر‎ ০2 

"৮. (০৭39) (eIPpyy ৪১০ ]) ০7০ 
*(1andredye (ع‎ 

(65370) (0০101 UuvIpuy) 92754 
"(0০9৭9191078 

عصوہ (رآنامب1ی (eee) ("WIP‏ (چرمس 

(ysuve) (3ম) وہ‎ 


-৪এএ!এ 


٦ ০79৭9 ٠۸۴ رک"‎ 
6 (rysedeg urngqque;_) ০৪17১০৪৪ 
7 (1 “ON—uIsn yy) seppeeg 
= (চান wnyquuy) ٭ہ‎ ৯০158 


ie (sered ۰3 0) avy 089 
bi (unig myeg "নু '9) ০৪] عو‎ 
71 


(rmeyy) "ماد بہ3‎ 
০০০৪৭০], 85 


= রি টু 
সা রঃ yyedysig 
s @ se Wer 
ee ب۲ا لیپرگا ری‎ 1 
"00959 
*30০ 000০ 


50140 915591011 


507 


CAIAUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


٭ 
a‏ 


MENT TO THE 


اف 


1 


SUPPL 


‘TENN Be 8৩1০? 08 JO JOU PUB 5999 رم9 ٭‎ 01. 3০ ৪০৪৪ OF JO 100ھ زمرہ‎ puNvUT 04} yodey 107, 


10008 oN="S'N 


—$<$<— pT Te a oe 


0 F آ6‎ 
0 F 26 
0 9 56 


0 
9 


oo 


৩১০৮ ০৯ تب نہ‎ 


ت و ےی 


১০ ০ ০ ০ ০০০০ 


“SO 
তানি 


০১০৩০৩০০০০১ 
শে 
i 


০৯৩৯‏ بت یی ٭ 
7 


0 
9 
9 


ت ت6 ৩০৩১০৮০১০৯৩‏ 


ب ہہ ت ےج تہ 


=f 00‏ بب ں ت ت ‏ ں نیہن 
সে ©‏ 
te ond‏ 


Wwooo 
rc 


ت ‏ ت ہ 


ت بب ب ৩১ ০৯ ৩৯ ০৯‏ بے 


ب ৫৯‏ پ ہ تن 


€I ¢I 


8 
9 


৩০৩১ ০৯00 02 ৩৮ wo 


ت 00 ےت ت ০০‏ 


১৩০ ০ ےہ‎ ৩০ ০০৩০৩ 


٤ا‎ 
6৪ 


| | 


0 
0 
0 


0 
0 


৩৯৩৯ ৩৯৩‏ ب6 


৩১৩০৩ ০১৩৯ 


০০ ০ ০ 8 ০০০০ 


0 al 
GI GE 
9 ت٤‎ 


0586 


8 6 
৮ ٢ 


PUSS 


0 
0 
0 


0 
0 


৩১৩৯০৯৩১৩৩১ 


৩১০১৩০৯৩৯৩১ 


0 61 
6٤ 6 
9 ٤6 


آ00 


০০৩০ ০ (০৯ ےو جج وہ‎ 
5 


0 0 ٢ 
0 ٭‎ GE 
0 9 8ج‎ 


2701 


9 
ও 


০,‏ بت 


৩১০৯৩০৮৩০৯৩ 


oo fF تج ےی‎ 890089 


8 
۴ 


6 
91 


qs 


৩১৩৯৩১৩০৩০৬ 


Pag 


0 8 2 
0 F QI 


০০১৩০১০১৩০৩ 


৩০১৩০৩০৩০৩০ 


ہت ی یب و ہہ ےہ oo oc‏ 


ت تب تب ৩০‏ ہہ 


تن بی وپ ے نے ৫১‏ ے 


Ooo 


آ98 


96 


: me d "(8) (qeqq) 202) 
i و۶927 7+ ۰ء‎ 


ms (wurpuy) 5৪258 


eu) resng 
০০০৪ 45910 


“81)0988881199518 
ae es deeys 
980 
و‎ ۶0,8 এ) opegng 
রে (০০719৪ ‘yon) 85ہ‎ 
3 -* (1০97195 ‘Arp) aod 
(poqes مھ (حدہک‎ 


ee oe ¢ 


“8185 Pus OpIH 


GUvUt-o8l0 
[97 994০7 
epsug 41g 
2 (Aar2 (ری مہ ٴ‎ 1০০ BY 
iy (০77 “Jaqry,) 100۸۸ APY 


“58901318881 


ىک کت )95097( 

(jeureg) yodeyy, 

** چودہم؛)‎ 5590) (pouty) 103309 

"* (০০ ০০০4৪) (peyeq) 0০ঘ-9 
٠ لئ لپ آ8‎ 

৩৪5৪) (7০০18) dureq-uusg স্তর 
*(poesarp 

00818) (791৭) duray-uueg تح‎ 
“(J ‘ON 9০৪০০) 

(poreq) durey-uuvg সন 

“ON‏ ج)- 


Sucegq) (0০৭) durey-uueg yremsy 
5 | (09935) (95০০7) dursq-uu¥SG 


# ? رہب 


OSG] رس‎ pug গু হও 
189এ 20907019400 [550911 299. ار‎ “550০৭ এ HUNG 909০0039890 “UapuazuLIedNg وہ‎ 4q poysijynd pus (১০313 
সস সাপ 
۱ 
125০5 ৮০৫ ‘buseys0 AY posnynouby fo ০০০৪০ 24০ 9961 YO HE YISS LL 
‘AVY ۰٥ ممجوم ىر‎ ٥0 ع۵ 70آ“‎ 19০7 


০17০5 “WN‏ عہك3رگ 
ae me mae mnie ieee re‏ 


0 0 98 L 6 99 0 وج 0 0 = وج‎ 0 0 +9 0 0 89 0০ ০0০19 a = us SSG) 
483 995 "91 WL 
0 0 6৪ 0 8 92 > 955 0 0 6 0 0 85 0 0 8 0 0 0৪ 00 2 ie oe (নগ্ন) corny peqoreg 
0 0 62 0 0 یو 0 0 9 0 0 یل 0 0 9 8 2 وو‎ 0 0 42 0 0 95 ‘wane ও (erry) corny 09৩০7791এ 
0 0 O61 |0 0 OLT |0 O OLT | 0 O OLE (0 O 0 | 0 O 0 | 0 O Ot jo 09 ont ٠8035 7 اس نید‎ 
م0‎ FIIE |0 8 ج٤8‎ 6 ZI 8 0 0 ৪৪ 0 ٠ ৪৪ 0 0 LE 0 0 Le 0 0 8 032 7 “(uou—adg) poomana 
08 08 109 8 0৪ 6 ٤ج١‎ 0 0 9৪ 0 0 چو‎ 0 0 4৪ 0 0 کو‎ 0 0 8٤ ০৪৩1 ৭0 (১০৩০০০০০৪০০) poomeiy 
09৪ % 0 ٤ ٤ 00 9 00 9 00 9 00 9 00 9 0 0 و‎ 0007 joey [0g 
0 0 وج 0 0| وع‎ 3 ¢ 79 0 0 og 0 0 09 0 0 és 0 0 وع‎ 0 0 3s PR 0 
Ir 
00 8 0 O18 0 ₹ 6 0 ₹ 6 oF 6 9 ₹ 6 0 ۴ 6 oF 6 an 5 ০ 
۱ 10 
96 ৪ 6 £ 6 0 916 ৪ 3 Ol € 3 Ol 0ً 0 ٤6 0 ٤6 ایشا تس سی نرہ دی ریہ لی‎ 
0 FI PI 0 ۶ و٢‎ ₹ PI কা 00 ٢ 0 0 97 0 0 SI 0 0 FI 9৪ SI ‘PAL (সস) ৮00 
2129০ 55658511556188 
d es ‘ey id "9 ‘sy [-d -w ‘sy | -d d ও sy jd "9 ‘sy 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 


৪961 "9961 :‏ 
(رودواکہ ٣‏ ۸۳۷۰۵ ۱ء ہے 


“Aq‏ 0و" 
۲۳0000000 6ھ jo eZvioay | jo 98৮০‏ 


۸488590834 6۲ چو" 


508 


*590180 91559810817 


86015161564 No. C207 No. 38901) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


ee 


حور 


۴۸۱ 1-4)19915 and Notifications by the Governor ct Wex 
Bengal, the,d#igh Gourt, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 
NOTIFICATIONS 


۲. 2404A.R.—2nd August 1966.—The follow- 
ing کا‎ ation by the Secretury to the Governor 
of We Renal id hereby »ublished for general 
information :— 

“Notification No. 25758., dated the 191 
August 1956,—The (rovernor has assented to the 


West Bengal Cement Control (Amendment) Bill, 
196. 


۲. R. SINHA, 
Secretary to the Governor’ 
1909 


1910 THR CALOUTTA'GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, ۱ئ‎ 
AUGUST 2, 1956 
পি ے ےش ےش پگ‎ EO Ty 
No. 240641৮4454 August 1956.—The follow- 
ing notification By the Secretary to the Governor 
of West Bengal is hereby published for general 
10) formations স্পা? 


‘Notification No. 25784. dated, the 181 
August 1956.—~The Governgr has athented to the 
West Bengal Development Corporation 2ھ۸)‎ ۹۱۰ 
ment) -Bill, 1956. 


P R SINHA, 
Secretary to এ 
By order of the Governor 
M. M. BASS, 
Seey. to the Govt. of West Bengal 


Printed and published by the Supermntendent, Govt. Pty, Wi 
Bengal, at West Bengal Govt. Preas, Alipore on the 2nd August 19 


Registered No. C207 Ne. 95841111) 


0), 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PART IlIl—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 
COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 


Legislative Department 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 1829I1.—2nd August, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legislature, having beef 
assented to by the Governor, is hereby published fur general information :— 


West Bengal Act XXII of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956. 


[Passed by the West Bengal Legislature. | 


[Assent of the Governor was firat published in the Caloutta Gazette, L:ztra- 
ordinary, of the 2nd August, 1956.) 


An Act to amend the West Bengal Development Corporatiwn 
Act, 1954.., 


۲۳ 85৪ it is expedient to amend the West Bengal Weet Ben. 
Development Corpuration Act, 1954, for the purposes and Ast XIV 
in the manner hereinafter appearing ; 


It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows :— 


Short title. 1. ‘This Act may be called the West Bengal Develop- 
ment Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1956. 


Insertion 2. After section 4 of the West Bengal Development 
of new seo- Corporation Act, 1954 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Act), the following section shall be inserted, namely: 


Act XIV “Disqualifications 4A. A person shall be disquslitied 
of 1955. for membership. for being chosen as, and for being, a 
member of the Corporation— 


(a) if he is a lunatic or a person of unsound mind, or 
(b) if he has been adjudged insolvent, or 


(০) if he Jas been convicted of an offence involving 
moral turpitude, or 

(d) if he has directly or indirectly any interest 1 a 
subsisting coutruact made with or in any wor 
being done tor, the (‘corporation except as a 
share-holder (other than a Director) in an 
incorporated company, provided that where he 
is a share-holder, he shall disclose to the State 
Government the nature and extent of the shares 
held by him in such company, or 


1911 


1912 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Parr IIT 
eS 
Lhe West Bengal Development চি (Amendment) 
Act, 1956. 


(Section 3.) 


(e) if he has any financial interest in any of the 
schemes undertaken by the Corporation for 
execution, or 

(f) if he is a یم"‎ of Parliament or of any State 
Legislature.” 


Amend. 3. In sub-section (Z) of section 22 of the said Act, for 

ment of the words “‘for the purpose of raising its working capital”? 

scction 22. the words “‘for carrying out the purposes of this Act’’ shall 
he substituted. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. K. D. GUPTA: 
Secy. to the Govt. of West’ Bengal. 


قد 


Printed a سو‎ by the Superintendent, Government Printing, ter ہس‎ 
est آدچدتذا‎ Government Preas, Alipore on the 2nd August, 1 


Registered No. C207 No. 385(111) 


Calrutta (91211 


Extruordinary 
Published by Authority 


পরার 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PART II—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 
COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 
Legislative Department 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 1828]1.—2nd August, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legistature, having 
been assented to by the Governor, is hereby published for general information:-~  — 


West Bengal Act XXI of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL CEMENT CONTROL 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956. 


{Passed by the West Bengal Legislature. | 


{ Assent of the Governor was first published in the Calcutta Gazette, 
Extraordinary, of the 2nd August, 1956. ] 


An Act to amend the West Bengal Cement Co:tral Act, 1948. 

WHEKFaS it is expedient to amend the West Bengal Weet ہت‎ 
Cement Control Act, 1948, for the purposes and in_ the ছি 
manner hereinafter appearing ; : ৯ + 


It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows: — 


Short title, 1, Thos Act may be called the West Bengal Cement 
Control (Amendment) Act, 195i. 


Amend. 2. In section 4 of the West Bengal Cemeut Control Act. 
یڈ سیت‎ op 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), for the words 


Weat Ben, ‘or authority subordinate to the State Government’’ the 
Act XXVI words’, not below the rank of Subdivisional Controller of 
of 1948. Food and Supplies,’’ shall be substituted. 


Omission 3. Section 11 01 the suid Act shall be omitted. 


Amend. 4, In section 13 of the said Act, for the ৮0:18. “No 
section 18, order’, the words “Save as provided in the Constitution of 
India, no order” shall be subatituted. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. Kh: .نا‎ GUPTA, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengul. 


٣ص٤۵‎ and published by the Superinteadent, Government Printing West Bengal. 
at West Bengal Governinent Press Alipore. on the 2nd August, 1956. 


1913 


Registered No..€207 


0)8 


No. 38801)‏ 
ےڈ سے ্ টি‏ 
۱ تر 


7 লী, 
نت ا‎ 7 
ب00 نہ‎ 
بتکہ‎ ٦س‎ 


র্‌ 2০০০ eames 


Gazette 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Goverryment 7 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Hooghly.—No. 13682L.A.—2nd August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so much of Lhe 
notifidation No. 12160L.A., dated 25th June 1955, 
ynder*pection 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I ot 
1804, published at pages 945-946, Part I of the 
“Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary’? of the 27th 
idem, as relates to pieces of land measuring, more 
or less, 17.64 acres und comprising cadastral 
survey plots as detailed below, out of the total 
aren of 38.50 acres of land notified tor acquisition 
for Damodar Valley Corporation for Cut from 
Kunti to Hooghly from chainage 62.00 to 
chafhage 100.00 in connection with the Damodar 
Floog Control Project in the district of Hooghly :— 


* 7 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Bhadreswar 
Village Garji, jurisdiction list No. 6. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—G61), 618, 622, 
(28, 625, 626, 627, 648, 674, 680, 682, 683, 
1285, 1850, 1852 to 1355, 1868 to 1866, 1429, 
1437, 1438, 1440, 1442 and 1443. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—d49, 553, 564, 
009, 611,016, ti 624, 628, 629, 642, 647, 
650, 675,676, 678, 679, 684, 688, 1324, 1331, 
1382, 1346, 1847, 1849, 1361, 1369, 1404, 
1413, 1488 to 1435, 1441, 1446, 1447, 2558, 
2579, 617, 619, 620, 649, 678, 681, 1848, 
1356, 1361, 1362,, 1867, 1405, 1406, 1428, 1432, 
, 1489, 1445 and 3. 


Village Bighati, jurisdiction list No. 14. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—Gl3, 016 and 
1093, » 


& 


Cad ] in part—U1l4, 616, 1092, ' 
dastral survey plots in p ہے ىے‎ cm blished আআ page 2659, Part I of the ‘Calcutta 


1094, 1084, 1091, 1095, 1096 and 1087. 


1915 


Hooghly.—No. 13684L.A.—2nd August 1956.— 
11, Governor is pleased to cancel so mudl#of the 
notification No. 12160L.A., dated the 24th June 
1955, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Aét, 
ا‎ of 1894, published at pages 945-946, Part I of 
the 11641980110 Gazette, Eaxtraordinagy” of the 27th 
idem, as relates to pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plots as detailed bhelow and 
measuring, more or less, 6.26 acres out of 10064৮01021 
area of 38.60 acres of land notified for acquisition 
for the Damodar Valley Corporation for Cut from 
Kunti to Hooghly from chainage 52.00 10 chainage 
100.00 in connection with the Damodg  Flooidl 
Control Project in the district of Hooghly':— 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY ww 
Thana Bhadreswar 
Village Garji, jurisdiction )دنا‎ No. 6. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—dd0, 630, 643, 
646, 657, 662, 668, 672, 677, 6১১, 687, 2689, 
1823, 1335, 1845, 1857, 1859, 1360, 1803, 
137], 1410, 1426, 1427, 617, 619, @@0, 649, 
G73, 681, 1348, 1350, 1361, 1362, 1967, 1408, 
1406, 1428, 1432, 14386, 1439, i44), 14883, 
349, 558, 654, 609, 611, 616, 621, 624, 628, 
629, 642, 647, 650, 675, 676, 678, 679, 684, 
088, 1324, 1331, 1832, 1946, 1483, 1434, 1483, 
1441, 1446, 1447, 2553, 2579, 1847, 1349, 
1351, 1869, 1404 and 1419. 


Village Bighata, jurisdiction hst No. 14. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—G11, 1660, 614, 
616, 1092, 1094, 1084, 1091, 1095, 10% and 1097, 


Hooghly.—No. 13686L.A.—2nd August 1956.— 
fn exercise of the powers conferred by section 48(1) 
of ihe Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, the Gover- 
nor js pleased to withdraw from the 00001810507) of 
yrages of land confiprising cadastral survey plots 
৮1151 1610৬ and measuring, more ur less, 4.35 


No. 121031,4., dated the 25th June 1999, 


of 14.60 acres af lund covercd by 09০11 7-‏ ای 


191 THE CALCUDPA'GAZEYTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 2, 1956 [Pann 1 
۰ ক 8 + : - 


aa 7 টু “fer ۶ A وت‎ af 2 * 
Gazette’ of the 7th July 195% yay) ۶۴ 
Damodar Valley Corporation ster Cut trom تاھد کا‎ 
to Hooghly from ehainsge §2.00- to chainage 100.00 
in connection with the Damodar لہا‎ Control 
Project, im the district’ o& 11600121111 
DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Bhadreswar 
Village Garji, jurisdictaon hst No. 6. 
Cadastral survey. plots in part—§471, 576, 8590, 
597, 603, 1282, 1283, 1290, 1298, 1299, 1302, 
1409, 555, 559, 561, 567, 583, 586, 1288, 1408, 
1412, 1444, 560, 568, 570, 577, S81, 582, 588, 
589, 598, 599, 601, 607, 608, 1286, 1289, 
1300, 1301, 1407, 1411, 1421, 1430 and 1456. 
Village Bighati, jurisdiction list No. 14. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—G18, 621, 622, 
1085, 1088, 612, 617, 620, 1087, 1089 and 1098. 


Hooghly.—No. 13688L.A.—2nd August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so much of the 
notification No. 13520L.A., dated the Ist Septem- 
ber, 1954, ‘under section 4 of the Land Acquisitioa 
Act, ‘I of 1894, published at pages 1205-1254, 
Part 1 at the “Calcutta Gazette, Hatroordinary”’ 
of the %ame date, as relates to pieces of land 
gomprising cadastral survey plots aa 01160 below 
and measuring, more or less, 7.89 ucres out of the 
total area of 25.60 acres of land notified for acquisi- 
tion for the Damodar Valley Corporation for the 
excavation of Kana Damodar from chainage 1383.00 
to chafnage 1438.00 in connection with the Damodar 
EloodGontrol Project in the district of Hooghly :— 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Haripal 
Village Chandbati, jurisdiction list No. 44. 
‘Chdastral survey plots in part—d70 and 5671. 


Village Dipa, jurisdiction list No. 41. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—14), 521, 6523 


Village Kamdebpur, jurisdiction No. 40. 


Cadistral Survey plots in part—58, 60, 328 and 
342. | 


Village Darhatta, jurisdiction list No. 465. 
Cadastral survey plot in part—201. 
4 Thana Jangipara 


Village Chandinagar, jurisdiction list No. 76. 


٣س‎ survey plots in part—l, 18, 287 and 


the 


و ™ ¢ 


* Hodghly.—No. +13690L.A.—2nd August 1966, 
The Governor is pleased to cance] so much of the 
notification No. 18520L.A., dated the lat Septem. 
ber 1954, under section 4 of the land Acquisition 
Act, I of 1894, published at pages 1253-1254, Part 
I of the ‘Calcutta Gazette, Extraorfinary’’ of the 
sume date, as relates to pieces of Tnnd pomprising 
éadastral survey plots as detailed below and 
measuring, more or less, 1.5] acres out of the total 
area of 25.60 acres of land notified for acquisition 
tor the Damodar Valley Corporation for the 
excavation of Kana Damodar from chainage 1383.00 
to chainage 1438.00 in connection with the 
Damodar Flood Control Project in the district of 
Hooghly :— রি 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Haripal 
Village Kamdebpur, jurisdiction list No. 48. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—60, 77, 78, 226, 
322 and 328. 


Village Chandbati, jurisdiction list No, 44. 


Yadastral survey plot in part—670. 


Hooghly.—No. 13692L.A.—2nd August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so rauch of the 
notification No. 13520L.A., dated the Ist Septem- 
ber 1904, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition 
Act, IT of 1894, published at pages 1253-1254, Part 
I of the ‘Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary’’ of ths 
same date, as relates to pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plots as detailed below and 
measuring, more or less, 0.68 of an acre out of the 
total area of 25.60 acres notified for acquisition for 
the Damodar Valley Corporation for the excavation 
of Kana Damodar from chainage 1333.00 to chain- 
age 1438.00 in connection with the Damodar Flood 
Control Project in the district of Hooghly -ے:‎ 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Haripal 
Village Taldaha, jurisdiction list No. 39. 
Cadastral survey plot in full—729. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—731, 739 and 
769. 4 


By order of the Governow 
.۶ط‎ M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 
to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


rar eee EEE OE EN LEE PNT RTE ET ENS ee NT Ee SRS PARE ت مم‎ ae جسسیسجچچ ٹہ یٹ ترجہ ٹیہ ٹس ہے بے‎ 


Vrinted and yublished by the Superintende 
at West Kengal Government Press, 


t, Government Printing, West Bengal, 


Alipom on the 2nd August 1956, 


Registered No. C207 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


مسج س তা a nna‏ سوسےے۔ 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1956‏ 


তা OD OE A i RC ٭جس سجچھ‎ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the 
High Court, Government ‘Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No. 3354Dis. /D/11L-95- { 06.—Ist August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1288Dis./D/ 
11L-96/56, dated the 27th March 1956, the question, mentioned in the said 
order and relating to the interpretation of the award, published under the 
said department order No. 3533Dis./D/11L-291/54, dated the 2nd August 
1955, was referred for decision to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said question: 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ات‎ of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
৮৭৭ to publish the award on the said question as shown in the annexure 
ereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Western 
India Theatres Ltd., C/o Minerva Cinema of 5/1, Chowringhee Place, 
Calcutta, and Messrs. 20th Century Fox Corporation (India) Ltd., of 19 
Chowringhee Road, Calcutta, who have taken over the management 
of the Elite Cinema at 136 Surendra Nath Banerjee Road, Calcutta, 
from Messrs. Western India Theatres Ltd., and the employees of the 
Elite Cinema represented by Bengal Motion Pictures Employees’ Union, 
17-2 Dharamtalla Street, Calcutta-13. 


. And 


In the matter of interpretation of the award under rule 20 of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules. 


1917 


1918 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 2, 1956 [Par ] 
পপ পপর 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENG#AL, 
CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 
Surat SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sizth Industrial Tribunal, 


Appearances : 
For a India Theatres Limited: Shri P. Rk. Mookherjee, M.A., 


For the Union: Shri Suprabhat Mookerjee, instructed by S. Ariff. 
For 20th Century Fox Corporation (India) Litd.: None. 


By order No. 1288Dis./D/11L-95/56, dated Calcutta, the 27th March 
1956, the Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, has referred 
for determination of an issue relating to the monetary relief due to 78 
employees of the Western India Theatres Limited under the award made by 
this Tribunal on reference by order No. 2297Dis./1/11L-291/654, dated 
Calcutta, the 2lst May 1955. 


. The issue is in the following terms : 


What monetary relief are the 78 employees, as per annexed list, 
entitled to in terms of the award published under the Government 
of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3533Dis. /D/11L- 
291/54, dated the 2nd August 1955, made by the Tribunal referred 
to in the said order? 


Staff list of Messrs. Western India Theatres limited (Elite), 186 Surendra 
Nath Banerjee Load, Calcutta. 


ad 
ہے‎ 


. A. Dowling. 

. K. Bagchi. 

. Moniz. 

mi Muncharji. 
. R. Chaman. 
Gomes. 
Biswas, 

. Rozerio. 


Sin Si, gm, 
os tS = 
Nee’ “ee” 
তলত 


শিস to 


. Prasad. 

) Jal Bhasania. 

3) A. M. Roy. 

4) 13. Das Gupta. 
5) Jaffar Ali. 

6) J. Ih. Chandra. 
(17) D. L. Braham. 
~(18) Sultan Ahmed. 


Am pk bee ০ ০০ 
(এ nw ~~, 


(19) Satyen Sen Gupta. 


(20) S. G. Hossain. 
(21) ৪. Ariff, 

(22) Nooruddin. 
(29) 9. N. Shaw. 
(24) E. D. Baptiste. 
(25) G. Costello. 
(26) A. Francies. 
(27) M. Gomes. 
(28) A. Mercodo. 
(99) 'ত. Reporter. 
(30) A. Mannan. 
(31) M. Solaiman. 
(32) E. Hossain. 


N. Chakravorty. 
. K. Bhattacharji. 


(33) J. Spencer. 
(34) Yusoof Mistry. 
35) Bholanath Das. 
36) E. Haque, 
(37) Ram Bharat. 
8 A. Rashid. 

Md. Yusoof. 
41} A. Gani. 


7 A. Jabbar. 
Yeakub. 

(44) 0. 

(45) Kassim ۰ھ‎ 
(46) A. Aziz. 

(47) Baidyanath Das. 
(48) Hari Das. 

(49) Basoo, 

2 Kamboo. 

51) Dibakar. 

(62) Jahur. 

(88) Drijadhan. 

(54) P. Ramchand. 
(55) Imdad Hossain. 
(566) Ramooz Khan. 
(57) Gulab Singh. 
(58) Mangal Bahadur. 
(59) Bhagawan Tiwari, 
(60) A. Sen Gupta, 
(61) Rambisen Singh. 
(62) Mohd, Monir. 
(63) Mohm. Tossain. 
(64) Mohd. 7۰ 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 2, 1956 1919 


পা ক 


(65) Kaloo. (72) Mukha. 
66) Tambi. او‎ Balloo. 
167) Basawan. (74) Mottahar. ےس‎ 
8 Dukhi. (75) ভি Mistry. 
=a کا‎ 
oti Lal. . T. Dass. 
(71) Chotelal. (78) M. A. Khuraigara. 


Briefly stated the facta involved are that Mesars. Western India Theatres 
Limited which was engaged in distribution and exhibition of films transferred 
the management of the Elite Cinema to the 20th Century Fox Corporation 
(India) Limited on Ist June 1954. At the instance of the transferor the 
90th Century دہ"(‎ Corporation (India) Limited engaged the services of 
the employees who has hitherto served Messrs. Western India Theatres 
Limited. While dealing with the issues submitted to this Tribunal arising 
out of the dispute between the employees and the two employers aforesaid 
this Tribunal came to the conclusion that on ground of equity the workers 
should not suffer loss of benefits which they might claim on account of 
their past services rendered to the Western India Theatres Jimited. The 
Tribunal decided that Western India Theatres Limited had an obligation to 
provide them the amenities or reliefs which their services entitled them 
to. The relief in the estimation of the Tribunal was gratuity calculated at 
the rate of 15 days’ basic wages for each year of completed service, subject 
to a maximum of 15 months’ salary. 


Disputes have arisen between the employees and the Western India 
Theatres Limited as to quantum of gratuity. The focal point is the length 
of service. According to the Wnion the period of service réndered before 
the Western India Theatres Limited came into یم‎ must also be com- 
uted, It is necessary to mention here that originally, the business was 
see run by the Western India Theatres Tumited as a private Limited 
Company. it went into voluntary liquidation in 1946. An agreement 
was entered into on the 26th of September 1946 between the Limited Com- 
pany and the Western India Theatres Limited, a Joint Stock Company, 
incorporated under the Indian Companies Act VIT of 1918. By the agree- 
ment which has been produced before me as an Annexure to an affidavit 
aworn on behalf of the Comnpany, the Limited Company transferred its good 
will, assets, and properties and henefita of pending contracts and all hiabi- 
lities to the Joint Stock Company. According te the Union representative 
the employees who were in service under the Jamited Company werd 
entitled to Jook to the transferor Company for the benefits accruing to 
them for service already rendered. The new Company had taken over the 
business with all its liabilities ond obligations towards the employees. 
When this reference was made the dispute was in respect of the claim of 78 
employees. At the hearing the learned Union representative informed the 
Tribunal that at present the claim of 22 employees only as per hst submitted 
with the affidavit sworn require consideration, The Union is prepared to 
accept the amount offered by the Company by way of gratuity for the rest. 
The claim of the 22 employees named in the Union affidavit is کا‎ taken 
up for consideration. To prove their respective contentions regarding the 
length of service the Union and the Company produced their charts showing 
the date of appointment as well as the date of termination. Ext, 1 is the 
Union chart and Ext. 0 is the chart of the Company. The Company did 
not include the period of service, if any, under the Limited Company. 
The Union did not call for the service records or registers to prove beyond 
all shadow of doubt that the particulars supplied in chart Ext. 1 are correct 
in all respects, The evidence of P. W. 1 and P. W. 2 is that the chart 
was prepared on the verbal statements of the employees themselves. No 
Tegisters or authentic documents were drawn upon for preparation of the 
chart, It is very difficult therefore for the Tribunal to accept the chart and 


1920 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 2, 1956 (Paar I 


use it as the basis for computation of the relief due. The Company’s chart 
was prepared with reference to service records lying 1n the Bombay office. 
It is unfortunate that the records themselves were not produced before the 
Tribunal for verification of the chart. As between the Union chart and the 
chart of the Company, the Tribunal is compelled to give preference to. 
the latter since it is allegedly based upon records and registers. The 
Tribunal has no other alternative but to act upon the Company’s chart. 
Regarding the Union agrument that the period of service before the transfer 
to the Joint Stock Company must also come into the equation, the learned 
lawyer for the Company লা that there is nothing to show that the private 
Limited: Company had not satisfied the claims of the employees at the time 
of the transfer. Since the agreement which is annexed to the Company’s 
affidavit shows that the liabilities of the business were taken over by the 
Joint Stock Company and there is nothing in the document that any parti- 
cular liability had been discharged, no conclusion can be drawn that the 
claim of the employees had been settled. 


The Company’s chart shows that of the 22 employees whose case is now 
under consideration as many as 10, viz., P. K. Bacchi Homi Muncharji, 
D. R. Chaman, B. J. Hossain, Baithnath, Drijadhan, Md. Monir, Md. 
Hossain, and Motahar entered service under the Western India Theatres 
Limited in 1948. The transfer had taken place in 1946. Even if they had 
put in service under the private Limited Company they lost the benetits 
of the said period since there was a break and re-employment commenced 
in 1948. One employee, Jal Bhasania by name entered service in 1949. So 
far as he is concerned, the position is the same as he cannot claim the 
earlier period, if any, to be tacked because of the break. Serial numbers 
(11) K. Prasad, (19) A. M. Roy, (17) D. L. Braham, (19) Sultan Ahmed, 
(34) Yusuf Mystry, (95) Bholanath Das and (61) Rambisen Singh, of Ext. C 
also had break of service. They had therefore forfeited the advantage of 
tacking on the service rendered prior to the break. Haridas, Imad Hussain 
and Ramoog Khan are shown 11) the Company’s chart as having entered 
service on 26th September 1946. That is the date on which the agreement 
of transfer of the business was entered into. Since the date of commence- 
ment of service synchronizes with the date of the contract rt is a fair 
inference that they were in the employ of the private Vimited Com- 
pany and were taken over by the transferee Company. With regard to 
these three employees the Tribunal has got to accept the particulars supplied 
by the Union in the chart Ext. 1, inasmuch as the Company has not 
produced earlier records. According to Ext. 1 Hari Dass and Imdad Hussain 
joined in 1939 and had been in service for 14 years six months and 15 years 
five months, respectively. Ramooz Khan joined in 1945 and was in service 
for eight years 10 months. Gratuity due to them must be calculated on the 
basis of these data. As regards the rest the length of service as shown 
in the Company’s chart must prevail. Gratuity will be computed accord- 


ingly. 
Taken at my dictation and corrected by me. 


S. SENGUPTA, S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge. Judge, ১2261 Industrial Tribunal. 


The 2nd July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Hengal Government Press, Alipore on the 2nd اھ‎ 1956. 


Calcutta 


Registered No. C207 


Gazette 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


١ ও 
ي‎ 7 pf ; f 
گرڈ‎ - 


No. 389 [॥] 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1956 


Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 
Jails 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 21388H.J.—4th August 1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section JLA of the Prisoners Act, 1900 (III of 1900), the 
Governor is pleased to empower the Inspector-General of Prisons, ۲ے‎ ۹ 


Bengal, to exercise the powers to release prisoners temporarily under that 
section. 


No. 2139H.J.—4th August 1966.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 310) of the Prisoners Act, 1900 (I11 of 1900), the Governor 18 pleased 
to make the following rules, namely سے‎ 


lI. Definttions.—(1) These rules may be called the West Bengal 
Prisoners (Temporary Release) Rules, 1956. 


(2) They shall come into force at once. 


(3) In those rules— 

(a) ‘““Inspector-General’’? means the Inspector-General of Prisons, West 

engal. 

(b) ‘‘Superintendent”’ means the Superintendent of the jail in which 
the prisoner, whose release under these rules is under considera- 
tion, is confined. 

(c) ‘The 4১0৮7 means the Prisoners Act, 1900 (III of 1900), as in force 
in West Bengal. 


“2. Application for tempurary release.—An application from a prisoner 
for temporary release under section 31A of the Act shall be made in the 
prescribed Form ۱ (Appendis I) in duplicate by the prisoner and submitted 
to the Superintendent. 


3. NSerutiny of application for temporary release. —The Superintendent 
shall personally examine the records of the prisoner making the application 
for temporary release and satisfy 14 that the prisoner is eligible for 
temporary release under sub-sections (7) and (8) of section 814 of the Act. 
He shall 9150 satisfy himself that the conduct of the prisoner has been good. 
11 so satisfied, he shall furnish a certificate to that effect under clause (c) 
of sub-section (2) of section 381A of the Act. 


4. Presumption of good conduct.—A prisoner who has become entitled 
to full ordinary remission under the rules for the time being in force made 
under the Prisons Act, 1894 (TX of 1894), for the twelve months previous 
10 the date of the application for temporary release, shall be deemed to have 
been of good conduct in prison for the purpose of clause (c) of sub-section 


(2) of section 914 of the Act. ٠ 
1923 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 


1924 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 4, 1956 [Parr ا‎ 
লি کے‎ 


6. Reference to the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police 
—If the examination of the records of the prisoner shows that he is 
eligible for temporary release, the Superintendent shall record the fact and 
forward the prisoner’s petition with his remarks, if any, to the District 
Magistrate of the district in which the prisoner was convicted. If the 
prisoner was convicted by a Court in Calcutta, the Superintendent shall send 
the application to the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. The District 
Magistrate shall consult the Superintendent of Police and, if he considers 
necessary, the District Magistrate of the district where the prisoner 
ordinarily resided before conviction or wants to reside during the period of 
temporary release, if granted. The District Magistrate, or the Comumis- 
sioner of Police, Calcutta, as the case may be, shall then forward the peti- 
tion with his report to the Inspector-General under intimation 60 the 
Superintendent stating whether the prisoner can be anted temporary 
release without detriment to public interest and adding his grounds in sup- 
port. If he recommends temporary release of the prisoner he may suggest 
at the same time special restrictions on his movements, 1 deemed necessary. 
He shall also indicate the amount and number of sureties for the bond 
which the prisoner must execute in the prescribed Form II 
(Appendix II) before he is released. He shall also indicate the number of 
days that will be required for the journeys by the shortest practicable route 
to and from the place at which the prisoner proposes to reside during his 
temporary release or if the prisoner proposes to visit more than one place, 
the farthest place from the jail which the prisoner proposes to visit. 


6. Final order by the inspector-General.—lf, on receipt of the report 
of the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, as the 
case may be, the Inspector-General considers that the temporary release of 
the prisoner is undesirable in the ناس‎ interest, he shall intimate his 
decision to the Superintendent who shall inform the prisoner that his appli- 
cation has been rejected. If, on the ofher hand, the Inspector-General con- 
siders that the application can be allowed without detriment to public 
interest, he shall issue an order of temporary release of the prisoner in the 
prescribed Form 111 (Appendix III). While ordering temporary release 
the Inspector-General may impose such conditions, as he may consider 
necessary, including the condition that the prisoner shall, during the period 
of his temporary release, be under the supervision of a Probation Officer. 
He shall send the order to the Superintendent with copies to the District 
Magistrates of the districts wherein the places to be visited by the prisoner 
are located, as also of the district in which the prisoner was convicted. 4 
copy of the same order shall also be sent to the Commissioner of Police, 
Calcutta, 1f the prisoner was convicted by a Court in Calcutta or proposes 
to reside there during his temporary release. 


کدحھیں 


7. Date of release.—On receipt of the order of temporary release, the 
Superintendent shall fix in consultation with the prisoner, the date of his 
temporary release which shall ordinarily be not later than ten days from 
the date of receipt of the order. In the case of a female prisoner, the 
date of her temporary release shall be so fixed as to allow time for her 
transfer to the jail nearest to the place where she intends to reside during 
her temporary release and from which she is to be released. If a prisoner 
in respect of whom a temporary release order has been issued is ill, the 
Superintendent may postpone the date of his temporary release for such 
time as the Medical Officer of the jail considers to be necessary for the 
prisoner's recavery from illness. 


8. Cancellation of the order of temporary release.—If the prisoner 
commits a jail offence other than that pattie by a formal warning 
between the date of application for release and the Jate fixed for his tem- 
an release under rule 7, the Superintendent shall report the fact to 
the Inspector-General who may thereupon cancel the order for temporary 
release. On such cancellation further requests from the prisoner for tem- 
porary release shall not be entertained during a period of six months from 
the date of commission of the offence. 


9. Intvmation of release to the District Magistrate or the Commissioner 
of Police.—When a prisoner is released temporarily, the Superintendent 
shall report to the Inspector-General and the District Magistrate concerned 
or the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, the date of the prisoner’s 
leaving the jail and the due date of his return to jail. 


10. Release Certtficate.—At the time the prisoner leaves the jail, he 
shall be furnished by the Superintendent with a temporary release certificate 
in the prescribed Form IV (Appendix IV), which shall be returned by the 
prisoner on his return to jail. A duplicate copy of the said certificate shall 
be kept in the jail records. 


li. Travelling and subsistence allowance tluring journey.—When ao 
ane is released temporarily under section 31A of the Act, he shall not 
e paid any diet money for the period of his temporary release. If such a 


Past J] , 


wt THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 4, 1956 


prisoner has not got sufficient private cash or wages earned to his credit to 
pay for the journeys from and to the jail, he shall be supplied with— 


(7) a free puss of the lowest class to and from the railway or steamer 
station nearest to the place of his residence on the credit note 
syatem, 


(2) boat hire or bus hire or boat and bus hire, as the case may be, from 
and to the jail if the journey or ah of the journey has to be 
performed by boat or bus or by boat and bus, 


(3) subsistence allowance for the journey from the jail to the residence 
of such prisoner at the rate of twelve annas for every fifteen miles 
or part thereof to be travelled by road, for which no conveyunce 
hire is paid, and 


(4) subsistence allowance at the same rate in respect of every day’s or 
part of duy’s journey by rail, steamer, boat or bus. 


The subsistence allowance mentioned in clauses (3) and (4) above shall not 
be payable where the prisoner’s home is situated within five miles of the 
jail or where the prisoner has private cash or wages amounting to more than 
three rupees to his credit. 


12. Loan of 9৫21 articles.—A prisoner, who has no private clothing and 
bedding and is unable to purchase them, shall be supplied on loan with 
a blanket and unmarked prison clothing. These articles shall be entered in 
his Temporary Release Certificate (Form IV) and shall be brought back 
by the prisoner on his return to jail, 


13. Condition of release to be explained to the prisoner.—RBefore the 
prisoner leaves the jail, the conditions of his release shall be explained to 
him in the presence of the Superintendent. He shall be informed at the 
sume time of the date on which he has to return to jail, that if he fails to 
do so, he can be arrested without a warrant by dny Police Officer and that 
besides being committed to jail to undergo the unexpired period of his 
sentence (the period of temporary release not being counted towards the total 
period of his sentence) he shall be punishable as if he had committed a 
prison offence under the Prisons Act, 1894 (IX of 1894). 


14. Report to local police.x—An order for temporary release under the 
Act shall specify the চি or places which the prisoner shall be allowed 
to visit or where he may reside during the period of temporary release. The 
prisoner shall not be at liberty to visit other places. On arrival at the place 
where he intends to reside, the prisoner shall within twenty-four hours 
inform the Officer-in-charge of the local police-station of the fact of his 
arrival. He shall similarly notify his departure. 


15. Procedure when prisoner does not return.—A prisoner, who does 
not return to the jail before the evening lock-up of the date fixed for his 
return, shall be deemed to have escaped. Intimation of such escape with 
a descriptive roll of the prisoner, his usual address and the addresses of the 
places which he intended to visit during his temporary release and such 
other available information as will facilitate his capture, shall be given by 
the Superintendent immediately to the District Magistrates concerned or the 
Commisaioner of Police, Calcutta, as the case may be, with a copy thereof 
to the Inspector-General. 


16. If the prisoner returns to the jail of his own accord after the date 
fixed for his return, he shall be admitted to the jail and the prisoner’s return 
and the reasons for the delay shall be reported immediately to the 
authorities to whom his escape was notified and to the Inspector-General 
who will give such directions, as he considers necessary, as to how the 
prisoner shall be dealt with. 


17. Release of female prisoners.—When it is intended to release a 
female prisoner temporarily, she shall, in the first instance, be transferred 
10 the jail which is neareat to the place where she intends to reside during 
her temporary release. She shall be released from the jail where she is so 
transferred and she shall return to that jail. The Superintendent of the 
jail from which she is trensferred, shall forthwith intimate to her home 
address or to such relative or friend aa ahe may nominate, the date of her 
release and the jail from which she is to be released. In the event of no 
relative appearing to receive her, and if she be under 25 years of age or 
likely to be led astray, she should be sent to her home in charge of the 
female warder, if there is one attached to the jail, or of 4 respectable 
woman entrusted to escort her. The female escort shall be paid travelling 
allowance as for journeys on tour if she is a Government servant and-if not 
n Government servant, she shall be entitled to actual expenses for the 
journeys from and to the jail. If this escort is not considered necessary, 
ihe prisoner shall be given free pass, conveyance hire and subsistence 
allowance as prescribed in Rule 1. 


1926 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 4, 1956 


FORM | 


Appendix | to the West Bengal Prisoners (Temporary Release) Rules, 
1956 (vide Rule 2). 


APPLICATION FOR TEMPORARY RELEASE 


A To—The Superintendent Jail, 
I (name) ; Prisoner No. 
, beg to apply for temporary release for days under 


the Prisoners (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1955. 


2. During the period of temporary release, if granted, I propose to 
reside at— 


8 فسٗ”حت 


۲۳1158۶ نا ےت 0٭۳‎ রা -. F , district : 


and to visit the following places :— 


38. The following persons may stand sureties for me:— 


77525277852 Occupation. *..১০,০১০১, 
Address— Village / Town , FO, , PS. ; 
district 

2227 

Dated. ..,....... 899و"‎ 

es Stgnature| Left thumb 27227768801, 


B Superintendent’s remarks. 


C Report of the District Magistrate/Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. 


[Panr I 


pant I] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 4, 1956 192? 
eee mgr 


FORM ॥1 


Appendix 18 to the West Bengal Prisoners (Temporary Release) Rules, 
1956 (vide Rule 5). 


BOND FOR GOOD BEHAVIOUR 


Whereas I, (name) 
Prisoner No. , undergoing sentence of 
: রী رو‎ he 
imprisonment in the Jail, 


have applied for temporary release under the Prisoners (West Bengal 
Amendment) Act, 1955, and have been called upon to enter into a bond 
to be of good behaviour to Government and to all the citizens of India, now 
I hereby bind myself to be of good behaviour to Government and to all 
the citizens of India during the period of temporary release, if gtanted to 
me and during the period covered by my journey from and to the jail and to 
observe the conditions of such release; and in case of my making default 


therein, I bind myself to forfeit to the Government the sum of Rupees 


Dated this day of 19 . 


Signature | Left thumb impression. 


Executed before me. 


eee وو و وج پچ ون ہج وا‎ eaters peaaeteo @eeeesGonaethoaatar sé 


Superintendent of Jatl. 


(Where a bond with surety or surettes is to be executed, add)— 
I/We do declare myself /ourselves surety/sureties for the abovenamed 
that he will be of good 
behaviour to Government and to all the citizens of India during the said 
periods and observe the conditions of his release; and in case of his making 
default therein, I/We bind myself/ourselves to forfeit to Government the 


sum of Rupees 


Dated this day of 19 , 


Signatures| Left thumb tunpresstons. 


Executed before me. 


SOD AP qeeeoseasseageaaege asses Bonsge ৬৩৬৪1৪৪৬৯৪৪ ৯৬ 


Superintendent Jail. 


০ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 4, 1956 [Pawed 


eee ne 


FORM ill 


Appendix, ۱۱۱ te the West Bengal Prisoners (Temporary Release) Ryles, 
1956 (vide Rule @). 


ORDER OF TEMPORARY RELEASE 


To—The Superintendent Jail, 
Whereas , Prisoner No. : 
undergoing sentence of imprisonment in the Jail, 


has applied for his/her temporary release ; 


And whereas I, , being the releasing 
authority empowered under sub-section (1) of section 31A of the Prisoners 
Act, 1900, am satisfied that the application can be granted without detri- 
ment to public interest; 


سے 


Now, therefore, I, ا با‎ , hereby authorise 
and require you to release temporarily the said prisoner from custody for 
a period of days exclusive of the time required 
for the journey from and to the jail, subject to the conditions specified 
below سخ‎ 


(1) The prisoner shall be of good behaviour to Government and the 
citizens of India; 


(2) The prisoner shall, during the period of his/her temporary release, 
reside at , PB. , district ; 
He/She may ৪180 during.the said period visit (specify the places, 
if any, the. prisoner مز‎ allowed to visit), and shall not visit any 
other place during the said period; 


(3) On arrival at the place where the prisoner intends to reside, he shall 
within twenty-four hours inform the Officer-in-Charge of the 
local: police-station of the fact of hie arrival. He shall similarly 
notify his departure; 


(4) The prisoner shall, on expiry of the said period, surrender himeelf 
to the Superintendent of the Jail; 


(5) The prisoner shall furnish security as described below before his/her 
release. (Specify the amount and number of sureties.) 


2. Number of days required for the journeys by the shortest route to 
and from the place at which the prisoner proposes to reside or which he/she 
proposes to visit during his/her temporary release. (Insert the period.) 


Dated, Calcutta, the 


CCH H CRO CEES fee ee eetet 95 ৪৮৪৮৫৪৩৫৪৪৬ 55৪৪৪৫৪৩৪ ৪৪৩৪৫ وواوو٭ ذوو“و و‎ 


(Signature). 


ےج ھ> ھْ 


Inspector-General of Prisons, West Bengai. 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 4, 1956 1929 


FORM IV 


Appendix IV to the West Bengal Prisoners (Temporary Roleaso) Rules, 
1956 (vide Rule 10) 


TEMPORARY RELEASE CERTIFICATE. 


1. Name of prisoner Jail. No. 
2. Father’s name 

3. Home address 

4. Prominent marks of indentification 


5. Left thumb impression 


6. Number and date of the Inspector-General of Prisons’ order granting 
temporary release 


7. Date of temporary release 
8. Due date of return to jail 
9. Description of jail articles given on loan 


10. Conditions of release (as in the order of release)— 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(6) 


Dated the : 


(Seal of the jail.) 


eeeeheaesatereseheesee خإوجوجووجووثجء٭؛ثٴٰ ٥ؿ ٭+٭+وو غ یو‎ 895৩8769848 


Supertntendent. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, Secy. 


i and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Be 
ee at Woat Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 4th August 1956. nem, . 


রি bs 
“DNS 2 ان‎ 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1956 
11100000100007 سج جے :چس‎ পা 


۷:٣ j-Orders and Notifications by the Governor ot West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATION 
Hooghly.—No. 13794L.A.—4th August 1956.— 
{he Governor is pleased to cancel so much of the 
notification No, 22594L.A., dated 2lst November 
1955, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act 
701 1894, published at pages 2147 and 2148, Dart 
1 of the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary of the 
same’ date ag relates to pieces of lund measuring, 
more or less, 3.89 acres and coimprising cadastral 
Sut very plots. as detailed below, out of the total 
area of 11.66 acres notified for acquisition for 
Damodar Valley Corporation for Tributory Cut 
to River Ghea from chainage 152.00 to chainage 
1560" in connection with the Damodar Flood 
Control Project in the district of Hooghly :— 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY 


Thana Dhaniakhali 


Village Bhastara, jurisdiction list No. 153. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—1536, 1541, 
۲۸۱8, 1892 and 1976. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1538 to 1540, 
1855, 1610, 1700, 1709, 1726, 1797, 1798, 
1804, 1817 and 2146. 


1931 


1932 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, .{Panr 
AUGUST 4, 1956 


bd‏ رن 


DECLARATION 


Burdwan.—No. 13798L.A.—4th August 1956.— 
Whereas the funetions of the Central Government 
under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/ 
55Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by 
the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs under clause (I) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that 
land is needed for a public purpose, being a pur- 
pose of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur 
Steel Project im the village of Bhiringi, jurisdic. 
tion list No. 68, thana Faridspur, pargana Sher- 
garh, district Burdwan, it 1s hereby declared that 
for the above purpose some pieces of land 11) 
Block “বি comprising cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 787 to 839, 841 to 892, 894 to 926, 92s 
to 1277, 1878 to 1881, 1955, 2088, 2098, 2117 to 
2120, 2122 to 2133, 2135 to 2154, 2158, 2160 
to 2178, 2180 to 2185, 2187 to 2202, 2204 to 
2206, 2208 to 22:34, 22346 to 2269, 2271 to 2327, 
2329 to 2378, 2380 to 2386, 2588, 2390 to 2400, 
2402, 2404 to 2431, 2435 to 2574, 2576 to 
2646, 2648 to 2710, 2712 to 2718, 2720 to 2747, 
2749 to 2757, 2759 and 2773 to 2814, and. measur- 
ing, more or less, 537.85 acres, are needed for 
the aforesaid purpose at the public expense within 
the aforesaid village of Bhiringi. 


This declaration is made, under the, provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, -to 
all whom it may concern. 

A ‘plan of the land may be inspeeted in ‘the 
office of the Special Jand Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrgtor, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


nna aa nn 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptgz., West 
Bengal, at West Bengal Govt. Pres, Alipore, on the 4th August 1956. 


Registered No. C207 


৮1, ۱ 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 6, 1956 


রা 


ART I-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the. High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT.OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTICE 
Birbhum,— No. 13816L.A.(P.W.).—6th .Auguat 


1956.—Whereas 1.35 acres, more or less, of land 
Situated in or near the village of (Moubelin and 
mother described below have beep requisitioned 
Under sub-section (1) of section 3 v€ the West 
engal Land (Requisition and sen, a Act, 
1948, by the person authorised under the said 
ection 3(1) for the purpose of providing facilities 


+ 


+ 


T irrigation and drainage, namely, for road 
‘preaches to road bridge at chainage 324.27 of 
Warka-Brahmani Muin Canal in connection with 


ও Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 
1933 


1994 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Pazr] 
AUGUST 6, 1956 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given thiin 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Govérnor 
acquires such land being required for 9 public 
purpose as aforesaid, 

This notice is given under the provision of sub- 
section (18) of section 4 of the ‘West Bengal Jand 
কন and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 

engal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may con- 
cern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition ()fficer, 
Birbhum, as well as in the office of the Executive 
‘Engineer, Mayurakshi North Canals Division, 
Rampurhat, Birbhum. 


Description of the land 
(Mauza Moubelia, jurisdiction list No. 7, police- 
station Mohammadbazar, district Birbhum. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—1127, 1172 and 
174, 


‘Mauza Ganpur, jurisdiction list No. 18, 6“ 
station Mohammadbazar, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—9, 172, 173 and 
1664. 


By order’ of the Governor, 
P, M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Henge, 
at West Bengal Govt. Presa, Alipore, on the 6th August 1956. 


Registered Na C207 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


_, MONDAY, AUGUST 6, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 


NOTIFICATION 


Ne’ 2444A .R.—6th August 1956.—The follow- 
ng notification by the Secretary to the Governor 
vf West Bengal is hereby published for general 
information : — : 

*“NOTIFICATION 


No.» 2635S.—4th August 1956.—The Governor 
08488861680 to the Calcutta University (Amend- 
ment) Bill, 1956. 


7. R. SINHA, 


Secretary to the Governor.”’ 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and লা by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West 
at Wes: Bengal Govt. Press, Alipors, on the 6th August 1956. 


1935 


Registered No. C207 No. 393 (177) 


81114 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


সপে ক مہ‎ POSTERS ও এই ০ শি 


MONDAY, AUGUST 6, 1956 


PART Il]—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 
Legislative Department 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 1850L.—6th August, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legislature, 
having been assented to by the Governor, is hereby published for general information ;—~ 


West Bengal Act XXIII of 1956 
THE CALCUTTA UNIVERSITY (AMENDMENT) ACT, 


[Passed by the West Bengal Legislature. ] 


{Assent of the Governor was first published in the Calcutta Gasetie, 
Estraordinary, of the 6th August, 1956.) 


An Act to amend the Calcutta University Act, 1951. 


Wuenrkas it is expedient to amend the Calcutta University weet Ben. 
Act, 1961, for the purposes and in the manner hereinafter Act XVI 
appearing ; of 195). 

It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows سے‎ 


Short title 1. (1) This Act may be called the Calcutta University 
and (Amendment) Act, 1956. 
(2) It shall come into force immediately on the Calcutta West Ben. 


University (Amendment) Ordinance, 1956, ceasing to operate. or IV ot 


commence- 
ment. 


Amend. 2. Section 41 of the Calcutta University Act, 1951 (here- 
mentof inafter referred to as the said Act), shal] be renumbered as 
etal ag sub-section (4) of that section and after sub-section (4) of the 
Ben. Act ৪910 section as 80 renumbered, the following sub-sections shall 
XVI of 49 added and shall be deemed always to have been added, 
1961. namely :— 

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section 
(1), the term of office of the members other than 
ez-oficio members of the Senate, the Syndicate 
or the Academic Council as provided in this Act 
shall be held to include any period which may 
elapse between the expiry of the said term and the 
۔‎ date of elections tq the Senate, the Syndicate or 
“the“Academic Conngil, as the. case may be, to fill 

vacancies arising by efflux of time. 


Explanation.~When elections to the Senate, the 
Syndicate or the সা Council are held on‘ 
more than one date, then the last of such dates 
shall be taken to be the ۵۵۲ of elections for 
purposes of this না 4 


1931 


1938 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 6, 1956 “(Pant 1 


———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————_ 


The Calcutta University (4 7৮647752756) Act, 1956. 


9 
aha 


ر۴ RNIN‏ سے سر tH‏ ز وو ane‏ 


ne ے۔‎ ৪ 
(Sections 3, 4.) 

(3) Any member of the Senate, the Syndicate or the 
Academic Council elected or nominated to fill a 
vacancy other than a vacancy arising by cfflux of 
time shall hold office for the unexpired portion of 
the term of office of the member whose seat became 


یہ ای 
Amend- 3. After sub-section 7 of section 62 of the said Act, the‏ 
.mentof, following sub-section shall be inserted and shall be deemed‏ 


section 


Contin- 


52. always to have been inserted, namely :— 


‘‘(4a) Notwithstanding anything elsewhere contained in 
is Act, but subject to the provisions of sub- 
section (2) of section 41, the elected members and 
the nominated members, other than life members, 
of the Senate, the Syndicate and the Academic 
Council constituted under sub-section (3) of this 
section shall hold office for a period of three years 

from the appointed date.’’, 


4 Any action taken or anything whatsoever done under 
the said Act as amended by the Calcutta University (Amend- West Ben. 
ment) Ordinance, 1956, shall, upon the said Ordinance ceasing 
to operate, be deemed to have been taken or done under the 
said Act as amended by this Act as if this Act had commenced 
on the 29th day of June, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


ও. K. D. GUPTA, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at Weet Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 6th August, 1956. 


Regstered No. [207 ۱ No. 39461) 


১৮ 
GCalrutts ۹ 
sf 

শা 
“tenant” 
Extraordinary کے سی‎ 
Published by Authority 
ہے‎ এসসি Ns ncn rn en ےس سے سسحصصصسہسىس۔‎ 


TUBSDAY, AUGUST 7, 1956 
7 ১৮০৯০৯১৩০৩০ ee পক =o 
ART [Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Rengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 
COVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL. 


"DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
Development 


RESOLUTION 
No. 6947/2C-69/56.—7th August 1956.—The 


Governor has been pleased to constitute a Board 
with the following members for the proper settle- 
bent aug implementation of the scheme for brick 
ire at Durgapur: 


manufa 


(1) Shri T. Mitra, Consulting ےد بیدا(‎ and 
Joint Secretary, Wousing Department, 
Government of West Bengal— Member. 


By Shri P. C. Bose, Chief Engineer, DPublec 
Health Engineering, Health Department, 
“Government of West Bengal—Member. 


(9). Shri S. Bandopadhyaya, Chief Engineer, 


5 


Construction Board, Development 
Department, Government of West 
Bengal—M ember. 


(4) Shri N, Biswas, Deputy Director. 
Industries, Government of West Bengal 
এ. — Member. 


(ক Lt.-Col. P.°K. Banerjee, State Command-- 
- ant, National Volunteer Force, Govern- 
ment of West Bengal—Member. 


(6 Shri Purna Chakravarty, President, 
Cottage Industries, Development Board— 
Member. 

1939 


8640 0 06PTHE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, | تھ7] رک لم رای‎ ۱ 
AUGUST 7, 10956. 


a eee 

(7) Shri Rajendra Nath Tutt, 117 
Baithakkhana Road,’ Calcutta— Member. 

(8) Yt.-Gol. ৪. K. Kanjilal, Chief Engineer, 
Durgapur Project—Secretary and 
Convenor. ۱ 

2. The Chairman of the Board will™be selected 
by the members of the Board from amougat 
themselves. 


3. The Board will] for the present be attached 
(0 the Development Department. 


4. The term of office of the Board will be for 
a period of twbd years from the date ۶ہ‎ this 
Resolution: 


Provided that the Government may at 7৮৪ 
discretion dissolve or reconstitute it earlier. 


6 The Board shall frame its own Lules of 
Business. 2. S 
Order 
OrDERED that the Resolution be published in 
the Calcutta Gazette and copies thereof forwarded 
to all members of the Board. 


OrprRED also that a copy of the Resolution be 
forwarded to all departments of Government for 
information. 

By order of the Governor, 


H. BANERJEE, 


Development Commissioner and ex officio 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Benyal. 


Printed and published by the Supemmntenden:, Govt. .., Weat Bengal, 
at Wes Bengal Govt. Preas. Alipore, on the 7th ১196, 


را 


Registered No. C207 : No. 395(1) 


Calcutta (90511 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


"ہس ہس ০০০০০০০০০০১‏ 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal 
the High Court, Government Treasury, etc 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 


Political 
NOTIFICATION No. 6009317. 


Calcutta, the 7th August 1956. 


The Government of West Bengal announce with the utmost profound | 
regret the death of Dr. Harendra Coomar Mukherjee, the Governor df 
West Bengal, at 5-50 p.m. on the 7th August 1956 at Raj Bhavan, 


Calcutta. 


S. N. RAY, 


' Chief Secretary to the Government of West Bengal. 


ty 


ee 


Pot ublished by the @uperintendent, Government Printing, West Bongal 
Printad and pu Bonga! টিন سے‎ Press, ۸6 ‘Dn the mM ا‎ 1956. | 


1941 


No. 35608) 


ip * 
৪৪1 a 
৭১:01:01? 
ass مر‎ । 
2 RE 26471, 


میں اگ یر 
A 7‏ 4 ۳ 
.1 دا ا 0 


۱ Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


——————————— নন 
TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 1956 
ea 
parRT I-—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 

Pengul, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


Political 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 6092P.—/th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 25 of the 
Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (XXVI_ of 
1881), the State Government is pleased to declare 
\ Wednesday, the 8th August 1956, being the day 
of funeral of Dr. Harendra Coomar Mukherjee, 
Goyernor of West Bengal, to be a public holiday 
throughout West Bengal. 


S. N. RAY, 
Chief Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and Published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 7th August 1956. 


1943 


Retistered No. C207 Ne. 396A( I) 


= =f - ۱ 
کے‎ 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 7, 1956 


PART l—~Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Wes: 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.— No. 139741..A.—7th August 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
tient under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I 01 
1894), in releéion to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union ‘have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/ 
sodudl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by 
the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affafrs under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the fonstitution, of India; 


۶ And whereas -it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to یں‎ needed for a public purpose, 
eng ھپ‎ purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
:یشید‎ in connection with the Durgapur Steel 
81৬০, in the village of Chak-Gopaldebpur, 
Wisdiction list No. 45, thana Faridipur, pargana 
lergarh, diatrict Burdwan, it is hereby notified 
at a piece of land in Block 44? comprising 
Cadastral survey plot Nos. 1 to 58, and measur- 
NZ. more or ھ7‎ 3090.08 acres, ওলি likely ০9 be 
heeded for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
Public expense within the aforesaid village of 


Chak-Gopaldebpu ie 
194308 


1948b THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY. LParr ا‎ 
AUGUST 7, 1956. 
টি 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 18%. 
read with the said notification, to all whom _ it 


may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Offtrer. 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgwpur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section read with the said notification the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with 
their servants and workmen, to enter upon and 
survey the land and do all other acts required or 


permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the abov: 
land as is not waste or arable who has any objet- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 
of the substance of this notification is given لها‎ 
the’ locality, file an objection in writing 6٥ 
the Collector of Burdwan. oe 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, a: 
amended hy Act XXXVITI of 1923 and read 
with the aforesaid notification, the Governor 8 
pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to the waste ٢ 
arable portions of the land in thie case. 


আঁ 
By order of the Governor, 
P.M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


সাকির । 
Printed and published by the Buperintendent, Govt. Ptg., Wert a 
at West Bengal Govt. Preas, Alipore, on the 7th August 1000. 


bitcred ‘Na C207 No. 9978) 


٦ 
~ ৯ 


۱ ১ 
17572072170 ৯2৭০৮ 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 8, 1956 


ee‏ راو ہیں ۔ 


RT I-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengtk the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 2457A. R.—8th August, 1956.—The following 
document is published for general information :— 


“Whereas consequent upon the death of Dr, Harendro 
Coumar Mookerjee, it has become necessary to make 
tenporary provision for the discharge of the functions 
of the Governor of West Bengal : 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Article 160 of the Constitution and all the powers 
enabling me in that behalf, I, Rajendra Prasad, 
President of India, hereby appdint Shri Phani Bhusan 
Chakravartti to discharge the functions of the Governor 
of West Bengal until the person permanently appointed 
under Article 155 of the Constitution of India enters 
upon his office. 


1944 


1945 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Pam 
AUGUST 8, 1956 | | 


Given at Rashtrapati Bhavan New Delhi; thi 
Seventh Day of August in the year°‘One Thousand ۵6 
Hundred and Fifty Six in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India. 

RAJENDRA PRASAD, 
President of Indis.”’ 


By order of the Governar, 


8. N. RAY, 
Chief Secy, to the Govt. of West Bengal 


pies 


No. 2458A.R.—8th August, 1956.—Whereds the 
President has been pleased to appoint Shri Phani 
Bhusan Chakravartti temporarily to discharge the 
functions of the Governor of West Bengal in sucpession 
to Dr. Harendro Coomar Mookerjee (deceased). untit 
the person permanently appointed under Articlo ৮2৫ 
the Constitution of India enters upon his offic is 
hereby notified that Shri Phani Bhusan Chakravartti 
has, on the forenoon of this day, taken the prescribed 
oath and entered upon the duties of his office. 


By order of the Governor, 


8. N. RAY, 
Chief Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


a ar earner neem ee 
Printed and Published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Benga 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 8th August 1981. 


۸۵ 


re اخ‎ 114 


3044 *THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST % 1956 (Parr J 
নি টিটি বিটি পা 3 
& 05555755555 ০০ 
CONTENTS: . 
; ۲ Pago. Page, 
PART I.—Orders and notifjeations by ٥ PART IVB.—Bills introduced in Xho West 
Governor of West Bengal, fie High Court, Bengal Legislative Council; Reports of 
Government Tredsury, ote. কও «. 8018-0 Seluot (02080015098 [0000 or to 
রন to that Council; and Hills published 
PART JA.—Ordors and notifications of the fore introduction m that Council 7 Nil 
Government of India, Statutory notifications ; 
ef the Elecvon Commission, India, and other PART V.—Acts of the Parliament of India 
Elvction notifications published for general aweonted to by the Prowdent and Ordinances 
information. Orders and: notifications which promulgated by the Presidont—~ 
havo orginally been published in the “Gaget : 
of India” are only republished .. 809-6 The Representation of the People (Second 
Amendment) Act, 1956 7 ~« 1৮:৮৭ 
PART IB.—Educational Notices 453-44 
۱ ۱ PART ৬17৮7381158 introduced in Parhament of 
PART II.—Advertisements, notices .. 359—37 India; Reporte of Select Committeos presented 
to Parliament; and Bills published before 
PART [II.—Aocts of the West Bengal Legisla- - introduction in Parhamont— 
ture ٠ + ডে বি The Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Bill, 
PART IIIA.-—Ordinanoes promulgated by the 1956, with Statement of Objects and Reasons 123—124 
Governor of West Bengal under tho onsti- 
tution of India ও রি 7 Nil SUPPLEMENT No. 32— 
PART IVA.—Bills introduced in the West Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West 
“Bengal Legislative Assembly: Reports of Bengal for the week ending the 26th July 
Select Committees presented or to om 1956 os oe a ~. 6509—510 
ted to that Assembly; and Bills pub- : : ۱ 
i i before introduction ee that سر اسم‎ Nil Calcutta Corporation—Notification ٠ 511 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
- -— Treasury, etc. 


Taare ۲۱ 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


সাধারণ ATA | 
General Administration 
নং ২৯৫৮জ,এ। 


No. 292807.4.. 
[নয়োগ ও বদলণ। 


Appointrfients and Transfers 
MATa | 
General. 
No. 2868G.A. /47-43 /54.—80th July 1956.— 


e Governor was pleased to place the services of 
Shri Probhakar Das, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, at the disposal of the Govern- 
ment of India, Ministry of Production, for 
appomntment as Town Administrator, Sindri 
Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd., with effect from 
15th July 1953. 


২৪-পরগনা-কুচাবহার جس‎ ২৮৯০জ,এ।১ডি-৩1৫৬।--৩১শে জুলাই 
১৯৫৬ 1-_এই বিভাগের ২৪শে afta ১৯৫৬ তারিখের ১৪৮৪জ,এ, নং 
গবজ্ঞাপ্ততে প্রকাঁশত যে আদেশে ২৪-পরগনা জেলার ডায়মণ্ডহারবারের 
উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীনর্মল কান্তি সাহা কুচাবহার জেলার : 0 
মহকুমার ভারপ্রাপ্ত 'হইয়াছলেন, তাহা বাতিল করা হইল। 


24-Parganns-Cooch Behar.—No. 2890G.A. /1D- 
3/56.—31st Puly 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to cancel the orders contained in this department 
notification No. 1484G.A., dated the 24th April 
1956, appointing Shri Nirmal Kanti Saha, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector, Diamond Har- 
bour, 24-Parganas, to have charge of the Tufan- 
ganj subdivision of the Cooch Behar district. 


1H দিনাজপনুর-কুচবিছার +_নং ২৮৯১জি,এ।১ডি-৩।৫৬ 1 ৩১শে 
জুলাই ১৯৫৬।-_-পাশচম দিনাজপুর জেলার ۵۹:ج‎ উপ-শাসক ও 
wae? Spt ana চক্রবর্তী কুচবিহার জিলার germ মহকুমার 
ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 

West Dinajpur-Coooh Behar.—No. 2891G.A./1D- 


3/56.—3ist July .1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to appoint Shri Sudhi Ranjan Chakravarty, 


Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector, Raiganj, 
West Dinajpur, to have charge of the বনি!) 
subdivision of the Cooch Behar district. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


24-Parganas-Burdwan.—No, 2847(.A./8P-282/ 
56.—28th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Amal Krishna Gupta, Deputy 
Mapistrate and Deputy Collector,  Alipore, 
24-Parganas, to be a Deputy Magistrate and Depury 
Collector in the Nadia district and to pust him ty 
the headquarters station of that district. 


This cancels the orders contained in this depart- 
ment notification No. 2702G.A., dated the 16th 
July 1956, posting him to the Asansol subdivision 
of the Burdwan district. 


Nadia-Burdwan.—No. 2848G.A./8P-282 /56.— 
28th July 1996.—The Governor is pleased to appumn 
Shri Sukhamaya Ganguli, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, on probation, Nadia, to be a 
Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector, on 
probation, in the Burdwan district and to post ساط‎ 
to the Asansol subdivision of that district. 


Murshidabad-Malda.—No. 2859G.A./8P-101/06. 
—30th July 1966.—The Governor is pleased 10 
appoint Shri Sunil Kanti Chatterjee, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector, on probation, 
Murshidabad, to be a Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, on probation, in the Malda 
district and to post him to the headquarter® station 
of that district. 


24-Parganas-Malda.—No. 2860G.A./8P-101/56. 
—30th July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Basanta Kumar Chatterjee, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector, to be a Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector in the 24-Parganas 
district and to post him to the headquarters station 
of that district. 


This cancels the orders contained in this depart- 
ment notificatiy No. 1711G.A., dated the 15th 
May 1956, poating him to the headquarters station 
of the Malda district. 


parr 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3015 


ener] | 


24-Parganas.-—-No. = 2870G.A./4S8-17/56.—30th 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
shri Abhayananda Mukherjee, Magistrate, 19৮ 
Class, Sealdah, to be in addition to his duties, a 
Magistrate of the Ist Class at the headquarters 
station of the 24-Parganas district. 


Presidency Division.—No, 2887G.A./3L-23/ 
90.+-3186 July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
post Shri Ranjit Kumar Ganguly, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, on leave, to 
the Presidency Division. 


By order of the Governor, 


T. 0110511, Under Secy. 


تئیہ 


Leave 


সাধারণ। 


General 
অং ২৮৯৮জ,এ।১এল-২০।৫৬।--২রা 81195۳۵ ১৯৫৬।---এই 8 


‘yok জুন ১৯৫৬ তাঁরথের ২০৭৪জি,এ, সংখাক 'বিজ্ঞাপ্ততে প্রকাশিত 
হটধসাহত বৃত্ত করিয়া শ্রী এস, ভি, কৃষ্ণ, আই,এ,এস,কে, সর্বভারতশয় 
কৃতাক (ছুটি) নিয়মাবলশর ১১৫১) নিয়মানূসারে ২রা জুলাই হইতে ৩১শে 
wm ১৯৫৬ তাঁর wate for দিনের আঁজত ছাট মঞ্জুর করা 
হস! 


No. 2898G.A./11L-20/56.—2nd August 1956.— 
The Governor has been pleased to allow 
Shi 3. V. Krishnan, J.A.S., earned leave for 
thirty days from the 2nd July 1956 to the 3196 
July 1956 under rule 11(1) of the All India Services 


(Leave) Rules, 1955, im extension of 1109 leave 
granted to him in this department notification 


No. 2074G.A., dated the 13th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


SO SRI 


৪-পরগনা।-নং ২৮৮০জি,এ।২এল-১৫1৫৬াঁপটি।--৩১শে জুলাই 


১১৫৬।--২৪-পরগনা জেলার আলপুরের উপ-শাসক ও লমাহর্তা শ্রীগৌর 
Pi মালিককে পশ্চিমবঙ্শা pure 'নিয়মাবলীর (oT খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখাক 
RAAT ২৯শে মে ১৯৫৬ 6۷۷ হইতে sek WA ১৯৫৬ ۴ 
OS আর্জত ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা ۱ 


24-Parganas.—No. 2880G.A./21.-15/56Pt.—3lst 
July 1956.—The Governor was pleased to allow 
Stri Gour Chandra Mallik, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, Alipore, 24-Parganas, earned 
eave for the period from the 29th May 1956 to the 
460. June 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West 
®engal Service Rules, Part I. ٠ 


eT بے‎ ২৯০ণাঁজ,এ।৬এল-১৬1৫৬।--২রা 8۰۳(۳ ১৯৫৬1 
٢٢٢ জেলার সদরের অবকাশভোগশ جج‎ শাসক ও সমাহর্তা 0٤۷ 
টম ج080‎ পশ্চিমবঙ্গ urs নিয়মাবলশর (of খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) 
ঈখাক নিয়মানৃসারে ২১শে জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারিখের ২৭২৯জ,এ, নং 
"۰ মঞ্জুরশকৃত ছাটির view ৭ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ হইতে 
WE জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারিখ ہمہ‎ আর্জত ছাট মজুর করা হইল। 


Bankura, — No. 200703.8.101৮10156. — 2nd 
August 1056.—The Governor was pleased to allow 
Shri Subodh Chandra Qyuerjee, Sub-MWgistrate 
and S$ub-Collector, Bankura Sadar (on leave), 
earned leave for the period from the 1h. July 1956 
to the 18th July 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part IT, in extension 
of the leave granted to him under the orders 
contained in this department notification 
No. 2729G.A., dated the 2181 July 1956. 

মালদহ ।--নং AHS VTS (QGA-20 ن6ا‎ I—-AM_—- WING say سا‎ 
মালদহ জেলার অবেক্ষাধীন উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা Arey কান্তি রায়কে 
পশ্চিমবগ্গা কৃত্যক নিয়মাবলশর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক নিয়মানূসারে 
২৩এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬ olay হইতে ৪ঠা আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ olay পধল্তি 


Maes ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


Malda.—No. 2912G.A. /21,-23/56.—2nd August 
1956.—The Governor has been pleased to allow 
Shri Mrinal Kanti Roy, Deputy Magistrate and, 
Deputy Collector, on probation, Malda, earned 
leave for the period from the 23rd July 1956 to the 
4th August 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part J. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


আরক্ষা। 


Police. 
২৪-পরগনা ۱-٤ ২৮৩৩জি,এ।৫এল-১৩1৫৬।--২৭শে জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
--২৪-পরগনা জেলার বনগাঁ মহকুমার সহা-আরক্ষাধণক্ষক سڈ‎ 
গুপ্ত, আই)প,এস,কে ১৯৯৫৫ সালের সর্বভারতশর সেবা (ছুটি) নিয়মা- 
বলীর ১১৫১) সংখ্যক নিয়মান্‌সারে ২০শে SAE ,১১৯৫৬ অথবা তারপর 
যে তারিখ হইতে তান ছাট ভোগ কারবেন সেই তাঁরখ হইতে নব্বই 
দিনের আঁ্জত ছুটি প্রদত্ত হইল। i 


24-Parganas.—No. 2833G.A./&I.-13/56.—27th 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleas ہا‎ «grant 
Shri Sudhindranath Gupta, I.P.8S., Assistant 


Superintendent of Police, Bongaon, 24-Parganas, 
earned leave for ninety days under rule 11(1) of the 
All India Services (Leave) Rules, 1955, with effect 
from the 20th July 1956, or any subsequent date 
of his availing of the leave, 


By order of the Governor, 


S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


POLICE DIRECTORATE 


Orders by the Inspector-General of Police 
West Bengal 7 


No. 6171A.—17th July 1956.—3rd A. P. Bn., 
West Bengal-Tollygunge-24-Parganas-Hooghly.— 
The following transfers are ordered in the interest 


of public service :— 


(1) Shri Arjun Singh, Armed Inspector, 8rd 
Armed Police Battalion, to Tollvgunge, 
24-Parganas, vice Shri Amardev Sharma, 
retired on superannuation pension. 


(2) Armed Sub-Inspector Raj Kishore Singh of 
Hooghly to 24-Parganas, to act as Armed 
Inspector, vice Shri Janardan Tewary, 
retired on superannuation pension. 


a 


Both to start at once. 


3016 TIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST*9, 1956 


[Parr I 


পি pate oe tee ee eg NN esteem a 2 


No. 6290A.—2lst July 1956.—Nadia-D.E.B., 
24-Parganas-Burdwan.—Shri Durgadas Mukharjl, 
Inspectom, Nadia, now temporarily attached to 
District Enforcement Branch, 24-Parganas, is, 1n 
the interest of public service, temporarily trans- 
ferred to Western Range, to fill one of the posts of 
District Enforcement Branch Inspector in Burdwan 
District Enforcement Branch. 


To join immediately. 


No. 6897A.—26th July  1956.—Bankura- 
24-Parganas.—Sub-Inspector Rabindra Nath 
Banarj: of Bankura, who was superannuated on 
the Ist July 1952, while on leave, is, in terms of 
(9.6). No. 608PI1./P2P-40/54, dated 28th February 
1956, appointed to act as Inspector in the istrict 
Enforcement Branch, 24-Parganas, for the period 
from Ist July 1952 to 30th September 1952, against 
one of the posts of District Enforcement 1101) 
Inspector there, sanctioned in G.O. No. 1309/ 
ACE-106/52, dated 104+85 March 1952, while being 


Shown on deputation to Bankura. 


H. N. SIRCAR, Inspr.-Genl. 


Transport 


ORDER 


No. 4144W.T.—26th July 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased hereby to authorise the Assistant 
Secretary and Assistant State Transport Commis- 
sioner (er officio), Government of West Bengal 
and the Secretary, State Transport Authority, 
West Bengal, to grant copies of public documents 
relating to the Home (Transport) Department and 
to the State Transport Authority, respectively. 


By order of the Governor, 


J. N. TALUKDAR, Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 4266W.T.—3lst July 1956.—The follow- 


ing draft of amendments which, in exercise of 
the powers conferred by sections 21 and 41 of the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), the Gov- 
ernor proposes to make in the Bengal Motor 
Vehicles Rules, 1940, published under notification 
No. 1930P1., dated the 218 September 1940, at 
pages 2655-2829 of Pari I of the Calcutta Gazette 
of the 10th October 1940, as subsequently amend- 
ed, is hereby published, as required by sub-section 
(1) of section 133 of the said Act, for the informa- 
tion of persons likely to be affected thereby. 


2. The draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 12th August 1956 and any objec- 
tion or suggestion with respect thereto which 
may be received by the undersigned before that 
date shall be considered :— 


Draft Amendments 


In sub-rule (a) and in sub-clause (i) of clause 
(2) of sub-rule (c) of rule 7, 


in clause (i) of sub-rule (h) of rule 20, 


in sub-rule (a) and in clause (i) of sub-rule (b) 
of rule 30, and 


in clause (i) of sub-rule (b) of rule 40 of the 
said rules, for the words “Additional Transport 
Commissioner, West Bengal’ "substetute the words 
Transport Commissioner, West Bengal’’. 


No. 4145W.T.—4th August 1956.-—The follow- 
ing draft of a rule which, in exercise of the power 
conferred by sub-section (1), and in particular by 
clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 42 of the 
Bengal Aerial Ropeways Act, 1923 (Bengal Act 
৬11 of 192%), the Governor proposes to make, ia 
hereby published, as required by sub-section (1) 
of the said section, for me information of persons 
likely to be uffected thereby. 


2. The draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 16th August 1956 and any objec- 
fion or suggestion with respect thereto which may 
he received by the undersigned through the 
Deputy Commissioner, Darjeeling, and the Com- 
missioner, Presidency Wivision, before that date 
will be duly considered :— 


Draft Rule. 


I. The maximum and minimum rates which 
the promoters of the aerial ropeway named the 
Bijanbari-Darjeeling ropeway may fix under ৪৪০- 
tion 18 of the Bengal ہے‎ Ropeways Act, 1923 
(Bengal Act VIL of 1923), for the carriage of 
ordinary and bulky goods on the several sections 
of the ropeway shall be as shown in the following 


table :— 
Table. 
Nature of Maximum Minimum 
Sections. rate por rate per 
maund. maund. 


Rs. a. p. Re. a. p. 
(i) Bijanbari-Chongtong .. Ordinary ..0 5 0 0 4 پ0‎ 
Chongtong-Singtom .. Bulky - 0 60 0 8 ০ 


Ordmary ..0 6 0 0 یج‎ ০ 
. Bulky ** 909790 0 6 ০ 


(ii) Bijanbari-Singtom 
Singtom- Darjeeling 
(iii) Chongtong-Darjeeling Ordinary ..0 7 0 0 6 ০ 
Bulky 08 0 07 0 


Ordinary ..0 8 0 0 7 0 
Bulky 090 مہ‎ 8 0 


اسست 


(iv) Bijanbari-Darjecling 


By order of the Governor, 
J. N TALUKDAR, Secy 


DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION, 


No. 6281/11.-42/66.—18th July 1956.—The 
Governor was pleased to grant Shri Parimal 
Chowdhury, Assistant Engineer, Haringhata Sub- 
division No. ] under Haringhata Division of the 
Construction Board, earned leave for fifteen days 
with effect from 1361) June 1956 to 27th June 
1956 in terms of rule 168(1) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Govervor. 
H, DAS GUPTA, Asstt, Secy. 


Part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTR, AUGUST 9, 1956 


DAMODAR VALLEY CORPORATION 


NOTIFICATION 


The Damodar Valley Corporation Service (Conduct) Regulations, 19955, 
ہہ‎ made by the Corporation with the sanction of the Central Government 
under section 60 of the Damodar Valley Corporation Act (Act No. XIV 
of 1948) are hereby reproduced below for general information :— 


THE DAMODAR VALLEY CORPORATION SERVICE (CONDUCT) 
REGULATIONS, 1955 7 


Short title and application.—(1) These regulations may he called‏ .ا 
the Damodar Valley Corporation Service (Conduct) Regulations, 1955.‏ 


(2) Except as otherwise provided by or under these regulations, they 
shall apply to all persons appointed to any post in the Wamodar Valley 
Corporation provided that nothing in these regulations shall apply to any 
({overnment servants who are on foreign service with the Damodar Valley 
Corporation, or to the Secretary or the Financial Adviser of the Corporation. 


2. Definations.—In these regulations, unless the context otherwise 
requires— 


(a) “the Corporation’ means the Damodar Valley Corporation; 


(b) 0 any penn appointed to any post ia the 
orporation, whether borne on the regular or work-charged 
establishment and includes a casual employee; 


(c) ‘‘members of the family’’ in relation to any employee, includes— 


(i) the wife, child or step-child of such employee, whether residing 
with him or not, and in relation to any employee who in a 
ক the husband residing with her and dependent on her, 
an 


(17) any other person related, whether by blood or by marriage 10 
employee or to such employee’s wife or husband, and wholly 
dependent on such employee, but does not include a wife 01 
husband legally separated from the employee, or child or 
rtep-child who is no longer in any way dependent upon him 
٠ er, or of whose custody the employee has been deprived by 
aw. 


3. General.—lLvery employee shall at all times maintain absolute 
integrity and devotion to duty. 


4. Taking part in politics and elections.—{1) No employee shall be a 
member of, or be otherwise associated with, any political party or any 
organisation which takes part in politica nor shall he take part in, 


subscribe in aid of, or assist in any other manner, any political movement 
or activity. 


(2) It shall be the duty of every employee to endeavour to prevent any 
member of his family from taking part in, subscribing in aid of or 
Nasisting in any other manner any movement or activity which is, or tends 
directly or indirectly to be, subversive of the Government as by law 
established and where an employee is unable to prevent a member of 113 
family from taking part in, or subscribing in aid of, or assisting in any 
other manner, any such movement or activity, he shall make a report to 
that effect to the Corporation. 


(3) If any question arises whether any movement or activity falls 
within the scope of this regulation, the decision of the Corporation thereon 
shall be final. 


(4) No employee shall canvass or otherwise interfere or 039 his 
influence in connection with, or take part in, an election to any legislature 
or local authority : 


Provided that— 


(i) an employee qualified to vote at such election may exercise his 
right to vote, but where he does so, he shall give no indication 
of the manner in which he proposes to vote or has voted ; 


(it) an employee shall not be deemed to have contravened عط‎ previ- 
sions of this regulation by reason only that he assists in the 
conduct of an election in the due performance of a duty imposed 
on him by or under any law for the time being in force; 


(iii) the Corporation may permit an employee to offer himself as a 
کو سس‎ for election to a local authority and the sar 80 
permitted shall not be deemed to have contravened the provi- 
sions of this regulation. 


E.rplanation.—The display by an employee on his person, vehicle or 
residence of any electoral symbol shall amount to using his 
influence in connection with an election within the meaning of 
this regulation. 


3017 


3018 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1946 [Parr T 
————————————————————————————————————————————— সদা 


5. Connection with Press or Radio.—(1) No employee shall, except 
with the previous sanction of Corporation, own ohne or 11) part, or 
conduct, or participate in the editing or managing of any newspaper or 
other periodical publication. 


(2) No employee shall, exeept with the previous sanction of ۳۶۴ 
Corporation or any other authority empowered by it in this behalf, or 11) 
the bona fide rian eae of his duties, participate in a radio broadeast جں‎ 
contribute any article or write any letter either anonymously or in his own 
name or in the name of any other person to any newspaper or periodical : 


Provided that no such sanction shall he required if auch ۴ 
or such contribution is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character. 


6. (Criticism of Government and/or Corporation.—No employee — shall, 
in any radio broadcast or in any document published anonymously or in 
his own name or in the name of any other person or in any communication 
to the Press or in any public utterance, make any statement of fuct or 
opinion— | 

(2) which has the effect of an adverse criticism of any current or 
recent policy or action of the Central or a State Government 
or the Corporation; or 


(is) which is capable of embarrrassing the relations between the 
Corporation and the Central Government or a State Government. 


Provided that nothing in this regulation shall apply to any statements 
made or views expressed by an employee in his official capacity 
or in the due performance of the duties assigned to him. 


7. Evidence before Committee or any other authority—(1) Save وو‎ 
provided in clause (3), no Corporation employee shall, except with the 
previous sanction of the Corporation, give evidence in connection with any 
enquiry conducted by any person, Committee or authority. 


(2) Where any sanction has been accorded under clause (1), no 
employee giving such evidence shall criticise the policy or any action of 
the Central or a State Government or the Corporation. 


(3) Nothing in this regulation shal] apply to— 


(a) evidence given at an enquiry before an authority appointed by the 
Government, by Parliament or by a State Legislature; 


(b) evidence given in any judicial enquiry, or 
(০) evidence given at any departmental enquiry ordered by the 
orporation or by authorities subordinate to the Corporation. 


8. Unauthorized communication of wnformation.—No employee shall, 
except in accordance with any general or speeial order of the Corporation 
or in the performance دا‎ good faith of the duties assigned to him, 
communicate directly or indirectly any official document or information to 
any employee or any other person to whom he is not authorized to communi- 
cate such document or information. 


9. Subscruptions.—No employee shall, except with the previous 
sanction of the Corporation or such authority as may be empowered by it 
in this behalf, ask for or accept contributions to, or otherwise associate 
himself with the raising of, any fund in pursuance of any object whatso- 
ever. 


10. Gifts —(1) Save as otherwise provided in this regulation, no 
employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the Corporation, 
accept or permit his wife or any other member of his family to accept from 
any person any gift of more than a trifling value. 


Provided that gifts of a value, reasonable in all circumstances of the 
case, may be accepted from relations and personal friends or presented 0ص‎ 
such persons on occasions such as weddings, anniversaries, funerals and 
religious functions, when the making or receiving of such gifts is im 
conformity with the prevailing religious or social customs; but acceptance 
of such gifts other than those of a trifling value shall bé reported to the 
Corporation and the gifts shall be disposed of را‎ such manner as the 
Corporation may direct. 


Eaplanatum.—For the purpose of this regulation, any trowel, kay or 
other similar articles offered to any employee at the laying of the tounda- 
tion stone or the opening of a public building or any ceremonial function 
shall be deemed to be a gift. 


(2) If a question arises whether any gift is of a trifling value or not or 
where an employee is in any doubt whether a gift offered to him 16 of a 
trifling value or not, a reference shall be made to the Corporation, by such 
employee and the decision of the Corporation thereon shal] be final. 


E-rplanation.—Whether or not a gift should be treated as of a 71 
value shall depend on who the donor is and the circumstances in) which 
the gift is made. A gift exceeding in value 1/20th of the 11791011715 
emoluments of an employee or Rs, 20 (whichever is less) from a person 
who is not his relation or his personal friend shall ordinarily be regarded 
asa gift not of trifling value. Gifts from relatives and personal frends 
up to the value of 1/8th of the monthly emoluments of the employee — or 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGAUST 9, 1956 


3019 


পা TT TT  ٹببببععععع ح<-حح‎ en A 


Its. 60, whichever is lesa, or even up to the value of one-half of such 
emoluments of Rs. 20, whichever is less, on special occasions such 9৪ 


i 0 in the proviso to clause (1) may be regarded as of و‎ trifling 
value. 


(3) Nothing in this regulation shall be deemed to prevent an employee 
from sitting, at the request of any public body, for a portrait, bust or 
statue, not intended for presentation to him. 


ll. Paublie demonstration in honour 7 employee.—No employee shall, 
except with the previous sanction of the Corporation, receive any compli- 
mentary or کوٹ‎ তে nddress or accept any testimonial or attend any 
meeting or entertainment held in hig honour, or in the honour of any 
other Corporation employee: 


Provided that nothing in this regulation shall apply to— 


(7) a farewell entertainment of a substantially private and informal 
character held in honour of un employee on the occasion of his 
retirement or transfer or any person who has recently quitted 
service of the Corporation; or 


(22) the acceptance of simple and inexpensive entertainments arranged 
by public bodies or institutions. 


12. Private trade or employment.—(1) No employee shall, except with 
the previous sanction of the Corporation, engage directly or indirectly in 
any trade or business or undertake any employment: 


Provided that an employee may without such sanction, ١۱1٥ 
honorary work of a social or charitable nature or occasional work of a 
literary, artistic or scientific character, subject to the condition that his 
official duties do not thereby suffer; but he shall not undertake, or shall 
discontinue such work if so directed by the Corporation, 


Erplanation,—Canvassing by an employee in support of the business of 
insurance agency, commission agency und the like owend or managed by his 
wife or any other member of his family shall be deemed to be a breach of this 
regulation. 


_ (2) No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the Corpora- 
tion, take part in the registration, promotion or management of any bank 
or other company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 (I of 
1956), or any other ae for the time being in force: 


Provided that an employee may take part in the registration, promotion 
or Management of a co-operative society registered under the Co-operative 
Societies Act, 1912 (II of 1912), or any other law for the time being in 
force or of a literary, scientific or charitable society registered under the 
کت‎ Registration Act, 1860 (XX1] of 1860), or any corresponding law 
in force. 


13. Investments: Lending and borrowing.—(1) No employee shall 
speculate in any investment. 


(2) No employee shall make, or permit his wife or any member of his 
family to make any investment likely to embarrass or influence him in the 
discharge of his official duties. 


Ewrplanation.—The habitual purchase or sale of securities of a uotorious- 
ly fluctuating value shall be deemed to be speculation ؛‎ investments 
within the meaning of this clause. 


(3) 11 any question arises whether a security or investment is of the 
nature referred to in clause (1) or clause (2), the decision of the Corpora- 
tion thereon shall be final. 


(4) No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the 
Corporation, lend money at interest to any person. 


(9) No employee shall, save in the ordinary course of business 
with a bunk or a firm of standing, borrow money from or otherwise place 
himself under pecuniary obligation to any person wthin the local 28 
of his authority, or any person with whom he is likely to have official 
dealings, nor shall he permit any member of hia family, except with the 
previous sunction of the Corporation, to enter into any such transactions: 


Provided that an employee may accept a purely temporary loan of 
small amount, free of interest, from a personal friend or relative or 
operate a credit account with a bona fide tradesman. 


(60) When an employee is appointed or transferred to a post of such 
nature us to involve nee in the breach of any of the provisions of clause (4) 
or clause (6) he shall forthwith report the cireumstances to the Corporation 
vnd shall thereafter act in uceordance with such orders as may be passed 
by the Corporation. 


14. Insolvency and Habitual indebtedness.—An employee shall so 
manage his private affairs as to avoid habitual indebtedness or insolvency. 
An employee who becomes the subject of a legal proceeding for insolvency 
shall forthwith repert the full facts to the Corporation 


3020 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


16. Movable, immovable and valuable property.~-Nd employee shall, 
except with the previous knowledge of the prescribed authority, acquire or 
dispose of any immovable property by lease, mortgage, purchase, ale, 
gift or otherwise, either in his own name or in the name of any member 
of his family: 


Provided that any such transaction conducted otherwise than threugh 
u regular or reputed dealer shall require the previous sanction of the 
prescribed authority. 


Explanations.—({1) The prescribed authority for the purpose of this 
clause shall be— 
(i) the Corporation in the case of all Grade [ employees; 
(8) Heads of Departments in case of all Grade 11 employces; and 
(৮) Heads of offices, in the case of Grade III employees. 


(2) An employee who enters into any transaction concerning any 
movable property exceeding one thousand rupees in value, whether by way 
of purchase, sale or otherwise, shall forwith report such transaction to the 
prescribed authority : 


Provided that no employee shall enter into any auch transaction 
except with or through a regular or reputed dealer or agent or with the 
previous sanction of the prescribed authority. 


Ezplanation.—For the purpose of this regulation, the expression 
‘movable property” includes inter alia the following property, namely— 


(a) jewellery, insurance policies, shares, securities and debentures ; 
(b) loans advanced by such employee whether secured or not, 


(c) motor cars, motor cycles, horses, or any other means of conveyance; 
an 


(d) refrigerators, radios and radiograms. 


(3) Every Grade I and Grade II employee shall, on first appointment in 
the Corporation and thereafter at intervals of every twelve months, 
submit a return in such form as the Corporation may prescribe in_ this 
behalf, of all immovable property owned, acquired or in erited by him or 
held by him on lease or mortgage, either in bis own name or in the name 
of any member of his family or in the name of any other person. 


=" (4) The Corporation or any মাস empowered by it in this behalf 
may, at any time, by general or specia order require an employee to 
submit, within a period specified in the order a full and complete statement of 
such movable or 1mmovable property held or acquired by him or by any 
member of his family as may be specified in the order. Such statement shall, 
if so required by the Corporation or by the authority so empowered, include 
detuils of the means by which or the source from which, such property 
was acquired. 


16. Vindication of acts and character of Corporation employees.—No 
employee shull, except with the previous sanction ot the Corporation, have 
recourse to any Court or to the Press for the vindication of any official 
act which has been the subject-matter of adverse criticism or an attack of 


defumatory character. 


17. Canvassing of non-official or other outsute influence.—No employee 
shall bring or attempt to bring any political or other outside influence to 
bear upon any superior authority to further his interests in respect of 
matters pertaining to his service under the Corporation. 


18. Bigamous marriages.—No employee who has a wife living shall 
contract another marriage without first obtaining the permission of the 
Corporation, notwthstanding that such subsequent marriage is permissible 
under the personal law for the time being applicable to him. 


19. Interpretation.—lf any question arises relating to the interpreta- 
tion of these regulations, it shall be referred to the Corporation whose 
decision thereon shall be final. 


90, Delegation of powers.—The Corporation may, by general or special 
order, direct that any power exercisable by it or any ead of Department 
under these regulations (except the powers under regulation 19 and this 
regulation), shall subject to auch conditions if any, as may be specified in 
the order, be exercisable also by such officer or authority as may be 
specified in the order. 

21. Repeal and saving.—Any order regulating the conduct of an 
employee in force immediately before the commencement of these 
regulations is hereby repealed. 

By order of the Governor, 


11. BANERJEE. 


Development Commassioner, 


{Pant 1 


Part T] 


THM CALCUTTA GAZETTE, auguST 9, 1956 021 


SSS a gg 


Community Development Projects 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 5980C.D.P.—17th July 1956.—The  Gov- 


607 19 pleased to grant Shri Amal Kumar 
Phani, Assistant Development Commissioner and 
Iix-officio Assistant ۰۰ Secretary, Development 
(Community Development Project) Department, 
earned leave for thirty-one days with effect from 
Ist August 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part 1. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. K. BANERJI, 


Deputy Development Commissioner and 
ex officio Dy. 9605, to the Govt. of 
West Bengal. 


No. 61040.D.P.—20th July 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint the Block Development 
Officers, named below, temporarily to act, in 
addition to their duties, as Block Development 
Officers of the Blocks noted against them during 
the absence on training of the officers of these 
Blocks’: سے‎ 
Sorial 809 of the Block Development 


Name of 
Na. Officer. Block, 


1, Bhri Provash Chandra Banerjee, Block Shyam pur. 
Development Officer, Uluberia. 

2. Shri Dharanidhar Banerjee, Develop- Tamluk. 
ment Officer, Khijri. 

8. Shri Manabendra Nath Banerjee, Block Labpur. 
Development Officer, Sainthia. 

4. Shri Nanda Gopal Saha, Block Deve- Chakdah. 
lopment Officer, Ranaghat. 

6. Shri Gadadhar Charan Neogi, Block Gaighata. 

Development Officer, Bongaon. 


6, Shri Baidya Nath Bhattacherjee, Hanskhali. 
Block Development Officer, Santi- ae 
pur. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. T. BANERJEA, 
Special Officer, 

Community Development Projects and 
Asst. Secy. (ex officio). 


DEVELOPMENT (ROADS) DEPARTMENT 
Establishment 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 41D.E.—26th July 1956.—Shri Sachindra 
lath Gupta, officiating Superintending Engineer, 
loads Development Directorate, is, in the interest 
f public service, transferred from the Road 
onstruction Circle No. I, and posted to the 
harge of Road Planning Circle, with effect from 
he date of hia joining, and until further orders. 


No. 42D. E.—26th July 1956.—Shri Priya 
anjan Dutta, Superintending 19100010691) Roads 
levelopment Directorate, is, in the interest of 
ublic service, transferred from the Road Plan- 
ing Circle و‎ posted to the charge of Road 
onstruction Circle No. I, with effect from the 
ate of his joining, and until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
H. BANERJER, 


Development Commissioner. 


No, 40D.E. 17th July 1956. Shri Narihar 
atterjee, temporary Assistant Kugineer, 
Winagar Construction Subdivision under the 
“Parganas Construction Divisiou, ix appointed 


Lo hold charge of the Basirhat Construction Sub- 
division, under the same Division, in addition to 
his own duties, with effect from the date of his 
taking over charge, and until further orders, vice 
Shri Wimanshu Kumar Bose, temporary Assistant 
15100170601) transferred. 


By order of the Governor, 
13. MUKUERJEER, Addl. Asst. Secy. 


বিচার 1۱ 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
নং ২৯৫১৯ি,এ। 
No, 20500۰ 
WTS 
Powers. 
২৪-পরগনা।-নং ২৮৪২জ,এ1২পি-৪৭1৫৬।--২৮শে জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
--৯৪-পরগনা জেলার বারাকপররেন্স wa শাসক শ্রী fa এস, রাঘবন, 
আই,এ,এস,কে প্রথম শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা Bore করা হইল। 


24-Parganas.—No. 2842G.A./2P-47/56. — 28th 
July 1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri 
B. 9. Raghavan, J.A.8., Joint Magistrate, 
Barrackpore, 24-Pargannos, with the powers of a 
Magistrate of the First Class. 


By order of the Governor, 


: 5. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


BERET EET 


wares নং ২৮৪৪1জ,এ।২পি-৪৮1৫৬1--২৮শে জুলাই سا یداہ‎ 
বশরড়ুম জেলার উপশাসক শ্রীঙ্গোরশ শঙ্কর ব্যানার্জকে wont 76ہ‎ 
২৬০ ধারায় ate অপরাধের বিচার কারবার ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল । 


Birbhum.—No. 2844G.A. /2P-48/56.—28th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri Gour! 
Sankar Banerjee, Deputy Magistrate, Birbhum, 
with the powers to try summarily the offences 
mentioned in section 260 of the Code of Criminal 


Procedure. 


24-Parganas.—No. 2879G.A./2P-51/56. — 4 
July 1956.~-The Governor is pleased to vest Shri 
Biraj Mohan Naha, Sub-Deputy Magistrate, 
Barrackpore, 24-Parganas, with the powers under 
section 190(1)(c) of the Code of Criminal 


Procedure. 


aw ی,٭آ د دج جم‎ 1۹۲۳-6 ٠١٤١ ۱٢-٠٢ জুলাই ১৯৫৬ 
নদশয়া জেলায় রাণাঘাটের অবেক্ষাধীন উপ-শাসক ب23‎ কুমার Gace 
দ্বিতীয় শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 


Nadia.—No. 2862G.A./2P-50/56.—30th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri Sunil 
Kumar Maitra, Deputy Magistrate, on probation, 
Ranaghat, Nadia, with the powers of a Magistrate 
of the Second Claas. 


By order of the Governor, 
YT. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


Judicial 
Appointments and Transfers. 


a—No. 47113.—25th July 1956.—The 
চি is pleased to confirm Shri Prititosh Roy 
with effect from tho Ist May 1956 in the post of 
Special Officer to the Government of West Bengal, 
Judicial Department, to which he was appointed 
by notification No. 6463J., dated the 6th October 
1965. 

By order of the Governor, 


K. চু. HAJARA, Secy. 


3022 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Paar 1 
ই উট শি নিই 
| NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 48141 ,-3011 July 1956.—In exercise ot the powers conferred b 
section 22, sub-section (#4) of section 22A and sub-section (7) of section 21) 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the Governor is 
pleased to make the following rules reluting to the appointment, powers 
and duties of the Justice of the Peace, namely :— 


Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Justice of the Peace Rules, 1956. 


2, (1) The qualifications of the person to be appointed a Justice of the 
Peace shall be as follows: سس‎ 
(£) he should be normally resident in the local area for which he is 
appointed ; 
(8) he should not, before such appointment, be less than 20 years and 
more than 60 years of age; 
(৮28) he should be literate and a person of some education; 


(tv) he should be a person of integrity and of some local standing and 
should be otherwise suitable tor appointment; 


(৮) he should be a person who has not been declared an insolvent, or 
convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the State Gov- 
ernment, renders him unsuitable for such appointment. 


(2) A Justice of the Peace shall have a seal of office to be supplied by 
the State Government. The sea) shall contain the words ‘‘Justice of the 
Peace’ and the name of the local area for which he has been appointed. 
The seal shall be returned by him, when he vacates his office, to such officer 
as may be specified by the State Government. 


(3) Ou his appointment a Justice of the Peace shall be furnished by 
the State Government with a copy of the order of appointment. Such copy 
shall be returned by him, when he vacates his office, to such officer as may 
be specified by the State Government. 


(4) A Justice of the Peace shall not be entitled to any remuneration for 
his services. 


(5) The term of office of a Justice of the Peace, unless terminated 
earlier, shall on first appointment be one year and such term may _ be 
renewed for such period or periods as the State Government deems fit. 


(6) A Justice of the Peace may be removed by the State Government 
from office 11 
(2) he ceases to reside in the local area, or remains absent from that 

area, 10৫ a continuous period of six months without the permission 
of the State Government; or 

(2) he is declared an insolvent or accused of or convicted of an offence 
which, in the opinion of the State Government, renders him unfit 
to be retained in his appointment; or 

(882) his conduct appears to be unsatisfactory or he is found to be other- 
wise unsuitable by the State Government. 


3. (1) A Justice of the Peace may issue a certificate of identity to any 
person residing in the local area if he knows the latter personally or 1s 
otherwise satisfied as to his identity. 


(2) Such certificate of identity shall show the name of the holder, his 
father’s name, his place of residence and address, his profession or occupa- 
tion and any other particulars which may be necessary for the purpose for 
which the certificate is issued. There shall be affixed to the certificate a 
passport-size photograph of the holder. It shall be signed by the Justice 
of the Peace issuing it and shall bear the seal of his office. 


4. (1) When an origina] document is brought before a Justice of the 
Peace by a person residing within his local area for verification or attesta- 
tion either in respect of the particulars contained therein or in respect of 
the signature of the executant, the Justice of the Peace may, after such 
enquiry, if any, a8 may be necessary, endorse the verification or attestation 
on the document and affix his signature and seal thereto. 


(2) When a copy of such a document requires verification or attestation, 
the Justice of the Peace may, after comparing the copy with the original, 
endorse the verification or attestation on such copy and affix his signature 
and seal thereto. 


6. (1) In the case of an incident involving breach of the peace or of 
the commission of an offence in the local area, the Justice of the Peace 
shal 

(2) visit the place of occurrence immediately on receipt of informa- 
tion; 

(1) record the statement of the eye-witness and others having 
knowledge of the incident or of the commission of the offience, 
noting their names and addresses; 


Part 1[ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 9048 


পপ inant Aeeacaenstata aaeaaer ace mrenSN RASS TSSTATENE TOT CeIO OT SCAT ROT ES PS Tse STO ta ٹک کک.ٹتبٹےٹٹ ٹپ‎ ETT Da sent acm re ann پت‎ 


(6) prepare immediately thereafter a report in writing containing the 
evidence available and the names and addresses of the persons, 
if any, arrested in connexion with the incident or the oftence 
together with the reasons for such arrest; 


(iv) submit the report together with the statements recorded by him 
to the nearest Magistrate and the officer-in-charge of the nearest 
police-station with the least possible delay : 


Provided that all or any of the powers mentioned in clauses ۸ to (7৮) 


shall not be exercised by a Justice of the Peace in a po 
if investigation by the police has already-commenced. 


ice cage 


(2) In the case of the commission of any offence within the local area, 
the Justice of the Peace shall, if the offence is a cognizable one, cordon off 
the place of occurrence with the assistance of the volunteers and the local 
people until the arrival of the police, so as to prevent the 1emoval of any- 
thing or article connected with the offence or suspected to have been used 
in the commission of the offence, or to prevent the interference by any 


person with the place of occurrence. 


6. In the course of an investigation made by a 


police-officer under 


thapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, in respect of any 
offence committed within the local area and if so requested by him in 
writing, the Justice of the Peace shall— 


(1) render reasonable assistance to the police officer in connection with 


a search or arrest or the guarding or 


temporary custody of 


articles relating to the offence or seized on such search; and 


(47) record the dying declaration of any person, who is the victim of 
the offence, in the following manner, that is to say— 


(a) record the declaration in the 


makes it, 


language in which the person 


(b) record the exact words, av far as practicable, used by the بسمسسمم‎ 


(d) obtain, if possible, the 


signature ۶ 


thumb-impression of the 


person making the statement to such statement, and 
(e) affix his own siguature لسن‎ seal thereto. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. K. HAJARA, Secy. 


SEI‏ ہہ 


Jalpaiguri-Cooch § Behar.—No. 4581J.—18th 
July সি086 18 exercise of the are Ee 
by sub-section (2) of section 4 a 0 ۱ € না 
Bengal Criminal Law aga tie Pas না 
Courts) Act, 1949 (West کت‎ “i eee 
1949), the Governor Ip pleased to distribute ٢ 
the Jalpaiguri-Darieling Special Court کو‎ 
10৮69 by notifica#on No. 4 B27. dated the 21) 
Aupust 1952, under sectios 9 of the said Act, 
the following case involhjng an offence specified 
جن‎ the Schedule to the ৪8৫ Act, to be tried by the 
said Special Court سس‎ 


Case 


1) Mahesh Chandra Sarker, 
রা eg বি Sarker, of Khayer- 
olie-station Kotwali, district 
azari Mandal, son of late Iswar 
Mian hayerbari-Tarininagar, police- 
station Kotw#i, district Jalpaiguri; and (38) 
Nenda Moh@imed, son of late Gafuruddin, of 
Baro نت[‎ police-station Haldibani, district 
Cooch B All the three accused are charged 
under 86107) 164A, Indian Penal Code, 


bari-Tarinimagar 


Jalpaiguri; (2) 
aa of 


রি 
= 


Dinajpur.—-No. 4483J.—18th July 6۰ 
ercise of the power conferred ى×نا‎ sub- 
Pn (2) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
inal Law Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 
9۶ (West Bengal Act ۱کت‎ of 1949), ٥ 
vernor م1‎ ploased to distribute to the West 
Inakpur~Malda Special Court constituted چنا‎ 
00119071102 No, 44827., dated the 22nd August 


952, wider section 2 of the said Act, the follow- 
Ug cas involving an offence specified in the 
chedul to the said Act, to be tried by the said 
Special Reourt :-— 


Case 


versus Sailendralal Das, ‘Tahsildar 
e Estate Acquisition Department, West 


ce 


Dinajpur, son of Jatindralal Das, of Bistupur, 
police-station Hemtabad, dietrict West Dinajpur, 
under section 409, Indian Penal Code. 


Howrah.—No. 46373.—20th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (2) 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law 
Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor is 
pleased to distribute to the Howrah Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4682.۰. 
dated the 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of 
the said Act, the following case involving an 
offence specified in the Schedule to the said Act, 
to be tried by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State versus Hari Charan Adak, son of 
Durlav Chandra Adak, of Parbatipur, _ police- 
station Domjur, district Howrah, under section 
165A, Indian Penal Code. 


24-Parganas.—No. 4641).—20ith July 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(2) of section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law 
Amendment (Sperial Courts) Act, 1949 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor is 
pleased to distmbute to the Weat Bengal 2nd 
Special Court constituted by notification 
No. 46127. dated the 22nd August 1952, under 
section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the Schedule to 
a said Act, to be tried by the said Special 
‘ourt = 


Case 


The State versus (1) Birendra Narain Sarkar, 
1.1. (Accounts) clerk, Atpore Treasury, 24- 
Parganas, of 44/10 Durgapur Lane, Calcutta; 
(2) Rasik Lal Mehta, a representative of West 
Bengal Lorry Syndicate, Madan Street, Calcutta; 
(9) Abdul Sukkur (a local dalal), gon of Ali 


3024 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr I 


সপ সপ 


Caleutta. 
under 


Ahmed Khan, of 88 Kalutola Street, 
All the above three accused are charged 
section 12018 /420, Indian Penal Code. 


Caicutta.—No. 4643J.—20th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (2) 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law 
‘Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West 
Bengal Act XXT of 1949), the Governor is pleased 
to distribute to the West Bengal 2nd Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4632J., dated 
the 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of the said 
Act, the following case involving offences speci- 
fied in the Schedule to the said Act, to be tried 
by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State versus (1) Karuna Das, an U. D. 
assistant in the Hefugee Rehabilitation Director- 
ate at 10۸ Auckland Road, Calcutta, son of 
Kaliprasanna Das, of Karimganj, Assam and of 
Kaisarbagh Circus, Lucknow, U.P. and of 7 
Bowbazar Street, Calcutta, under section 120B/ 
420, I.P.C., and under section 5 of the Preven- 
tion of Corruption Act, 1947; and (2) Krishna- 
bandhu Debnath, son of Krishna Kumar 
Debnath, of Charmajdia, police-station Naba- 
dwip, dastrict Nadia, under sections 120B/420, 
Indian Panal Code. 


Caicutta.—No. 4681J.—24th “July 1856.11 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (2) 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal Low 
Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor is pleased 
to distribute to the West Bengal Second Special 
Court constituted by notification No. 4632J., dated 
the 22nd August 1952, under section 2 of the said 
Act, the following case involving an offence 
specified in the schedule to the said Act, to be tried 
by the said Special Court: — 


Case 2 


The State versus A. N. Bose alias Amarendra 
Nath Bose, Inspector, Central Excise and 
Land Customs, Calcutta, son of late Jatindra 
Nath Bose, of 12/1, Watganj Street, 
Caleutta, and of 87, Harrison Road, 
Calcutta, under section 161 of the Indian 
Penal Code. 


By order of the Governor, 
- A, K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 


OFFICE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR, 
DURCAPUR PROJECT. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 964/D.P.A. /8-18/56.—28th/30th = July 
1956.—Shri Bibhuti Bhusan Das, Assistant 
Engineer (Electrical), Works and Buildings 
Department, 18 appointed temporarily as Assistant 
Engineer (Electrical) under the Durgapur Project 
and placed in charge of the Electrica] Sub- 
division attached to Durgapur Project Division 
No. I, P.O. Durgapur, district Burdwan, with 
effect from 2nd July 1956, until further orders. 


No. 965/D.P.A./827/56.—28th/30th [07٢ 
1956.—Shri A. .کا‎ (Gthose, Project Engineer, 
Electricity Department of the Damodar Valley 


Corporation, is appointed temporarily as Project 
Engineer (Klectmeal), Durgapur Project, with 
effect from the 16th July 1956, until further orders. 


N. N. MAJUMDAR, 


Administrator, Durgapur Project, Special 
Officer and € officio Secy., Finance 
Department. 


Audit 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 3188F./F/1F/8/56.—17th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (3) of 
article 166 of the Constitution of India, read with 
article 872 of the said Constitution and with para- 
graph 19 of the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
amendment in the West Bengal Financial Rules, 
Volume I, namely :— 


Page 10—Rule 25— 


For the words ‘‘Government Promissory Notes, 
Municipal Debentures or Port Trust 
Bonds” occurring in item (t%) of the said 
rule, substitute the following :— 


“Promissory Notes, Stock certificates of the 
Central Government or a State Govern- 
ment, Municipal Debentures or Tort 
Trust Bonds.”’ 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy 


Taxation. 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 1582F.T.—24th July 1956.—The Governor 


is pleased to post Shri B. K. Som, Commercial 
Tax Officer, Grade IT, Ceatral Section; Weat 
Bengal, Calcutta, to the Malia Charge with effect 
from the date on which he axumes charge. 


This cancels this departnwnt notification 
No. 1203F.T., dated the 2nd June 6. 


No. 1583F.T.—24th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to post Shri Asoke Ranjan Chatterjee, 
Commercial Tax Officer, Grade IT, Central 
Section, West Bengal, Calcutta, to the Shmbazar 
Charge, Calcutta, with effect from the dite on 
which he assumes charge. 


No, 1584F.T.—24th. July 1956.—The Governa, 
ia pleased to post Shri Santideb Mukherjey, Cum- 
mercial Tax Officer, Grade II, Sealdah “Charge: 
Calcutta, to the Canning Street, District : 
Charge, Calcutta, with eflect from the date 9 
which he assumes charge. 


By order of the )0 
B DAS GUPTA, ۰ 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3025 


٭ ao‏ 
متس تستصىس-<حصص٭ص<صجحتىسىهع SRE‏ آیسیوووپیمیومجمکھووٹوفویومہففپفویووپٗوڈیریٹیرداوسسومفمفوفووومس ا فسپوفووس سوہ وسووممسیوٹپووووسوممفشسفووسپپمپمپوریپریومپپمپومفپوپمسویپیووچوینیمٹوپمجچیسویوپوومفیووفریوپسپپموکپممچیجپجروورنۃتجحجھجا 

- an وہ سے‎ meee আপ ডি উপ লিউ কিউ উকি یر‎ কস ৬৯ সিসিক পিল পাক প্র ھجم و ہسوسو ہہس ےتور بوگج 0پ‎ UU নস روم رج می مد سی یس رایت سور سس مرو سے وسر کیج‎ কি লী OEE 
চপল” পা এ وی ا‎ 


No. 1608F.T.—25th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information thut the existing Burdwan and 
Presidency Divisions Circle under the Commercial Tax Directorate, West Bengal, is divided into following three 
“7006 circles with jurisdiction and headquarters as noted against each, with effect from the Ist September 1956:— 


Name of Circle, Jurisdiction. Headquarters. 

(1) Jalpaiguri Circle 7 .. The districts of Darjecling, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri. 
Malda and West Dinajpur. 

(2) Asansol Cirolo .. Asansol subdivision of the Burdwan district and the Asansol. 
districts of Birbhum, Bankura and Midnapore. 

(3) Howrah Circle দর ১০ The districts of Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and Murshi- Calcutta. 
dabad and the district of Burdwan excluding Asansol 
subdivision. 


No. 1609F.T.—25th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information that the Midnapore Charge of the 
Directorate of Commercial Taxes, West Bengal, is divided into following two charges with jurisdiction and headquarters 
noted against each, with effect from lst September 1956 :— 


Name of the Charge. Jurisdiction. Headquarters. 
(1) Midnapore Charge (MN) a .. District of Midnapore 7 .. Midnapore. 
(2) Bankura Charge (BK) - .- District of Bankura 7 .- Bankura. 


No. 1610F.T.—25th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information that, the Krishnagar Charge of the 
Directorate of Commercial Taxes, West Bengal, is divided into following two charges with jurisdiction and headquarters 
noted against each, with effect from 186 September 1956 :-— 


Name of Charge. Jurisdiction. Headquarters. 
11) Krishnagar Charge (KR). 7 .- District of Nadia - .. Krishnagar. 
2( Berhampore Charge (BR). 7 .. District of Murshidabad রী .- Berhampore. 


No. 1611 F.T.—25th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information that the Bhawanipore Charge of 
Commercial Tax Directorate, West Bengal, is divided into two charges, viz., Bhawanipore Charge and Alipore 
Sharge, with the following jurisdictions, with effect from the lst September 1956 :— 


Name of Charge. Juridiction. 


1) Commercial Tax Office, Bhawanipore (BH) .. East and South—Tangra Road South; Tapsia Road North; 
Tapsia Road South; Tiljala Masjidbari Lane up to Railway 
line of South Section; Railway line of South Section; (running 
round} Dhakuria Lake) up to Russa Road. 


North—Kyd Street; Free School Street, from junction of Kyd 
Street up to junction of Ripon Street; Ripon Street up to 
junction of Wood Street; Wood Street up to junction of 
Theatre Road; Theatre Road up to junction of Lower Circular 
Road; Lower Circular Road, from junction of Theatre Road 
to junction of Phulbagan Road; Phulbagan Road up to Kan- 
kurgachi Chord Railway line; Kankurgachi Chord Railway 
line up to Beliaghata Canal; Canal South Road, from Kan- 
kurgachi Chord line to Tangra Road South. 


Weasat—Eastorn side of Chowringhee Road, from junction of Kyd 
Street to Ashutosh Mukhejree Road; Ashutosh Mukherjee 
Road (eastern side); Russa Road (eastern side) up to South 
Section Railway line. 


2) Commercial Tax Office, Alipore (AL). ..  East—Western side of Ashutosh Mukherjee Road; Russa Road 
(western side) up to Tollygunge Circular Road. 


North—Lower Circular Road, from the crossing of Chowringhee 
Road to Belvedere Road; Belvedere Road up to Tolly's Nallah; 
Tolly’s Nallah (southern portion) up to Kidderpore Road; 
Kidderpore Road, from Tolly’s Nallah to St. George Gate 
Road; St. George Gate Road up to Clyde Row; Clyde Row; 
Hooghly river (south bank) from Clyde Row (Takta Ghat) up to 
the road woat of Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Souther 
genorating station. 


West—(a) The road between police-station and Southern 
generating station connecting Hooghly river and Garden 
Reach Road; Garden Reach Road from junction of Road 
at (a) to Export Shed A; The road from Export Shed up to 
Garden Reach Road; Circular Garden Reach Road, Taratalla 
Road. * 


South—Taratalla Road; Sahapur Road; Tollygunge Circular 
Road up to Russa Road, 


3026 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 {Parr ] 


ই ০৩৯ ESLER ০০১ ২ পন 


রা 
No. 1612F T.—-25th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information that the Hsplanade Charge و‎ 
Commercial Tax Directorate, West Bengal, is divided into two charges, viz., Esplanade Charge and Radhabazar 
Charge, with the following jurisdictions, with effect from lst Septembor 1956 سے‎ 


Name of Charge. Jurisdiction, 
(The area lying within the boundary shown below.) 


(1) Esplanade Charge (EL) 7 .. East—Western side of Mission Row; Southern side of Mangoe 
Lane; Western side of Bentinck Street, from junction of 
Mangoe Lane up to Chowringhee; Western side of Chowringhee 
Road up to junction of Lower Circular Road. 


West—Hooghly river (cast bank), from Takta Ghat to the point 
in front of Fairlie Place and Strand Road junction. 


North—Southern side of Fairlie Place; Western side of Netaji 
Subhas Road, from Failie Placo to Writers’ Buildings, 
Dalhousie Square North up to south-east point of Writers’ 
Buildings. 


South—Northern side of Lower Circular Road, from junction 
of Chowringhee Road to Belvedere Road; Western side of 
Belvedere Road up to Tolly’s Nallah; Northern portion of 
Tolly’s Nallah up to Kidderpore Road; Eastern side of 
Kidderpore Road up to St. George Gate Road; Eastern side of 
St. George Gate Road up to Clyde Row; Northern side of Clyde 
Row up to Hooghly river. 


(2) Radhabazar Charge (RB). = .. East—Western side of Pollock Street; Southern side of Roya! 
Exchange Place Extension up to Lower Chitpore Road 
Western side of Lower Chitpore Road from junction of Roya 
Exchange Place Extension to Bentinck Street; Western side of 
Bentinck Street up to junction of Mangoe Lane, 


West—Eastern side of Old Chinahazar Street from junction of 
Canning Street; Eastern side of Swallow Lane up to Royal 
Exchange Place; Northern side of Royal Exchange Place up to 
Brabourne Road; Eastern side of Brabourne Road up to 
south-east corner of Writers’ Buildings, 


North—Southern side of Canning Street from Old Chinabazar 
Street to Pollock Street. 


South—Northern side of Mangoe Lane and eastern side of Mission 
Row up to Dalhousie Square North; Northern side of Dalhousie 
Square North from the junction of Mission Row to south-east 
corner of Writers’ Buildings. 


By order of the Governor, 


B. DAS GUPTAZ Secy. 


EXCISE DIRECTORATE পশ্চমবত্গ বাণিজ্যকর আধকার। 
DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES, 
NOTIFICATIONS WEST BENGAL 
۱ 81+01۷۷ ا‎ 
NO, 24K xe.—-26th wee رر رر‎ ee NOTIFICATIONS 
Pramanik, Inspector of Excise, Hooghly, under 
orders of transfer to Caleutta (vide notificution নং ৯০১৮পসি,টি।--৩০শে জুলাই ১৯৫৬।--পশ্চিমবঙ্গ .7 
No. 21Exe., dated 13th July 1956), is posted to মহাধাক্ষের স্বকীয় সহায়ক প্রীসরেশ চন্দ্র সরকারকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ কৃতাক 
the Foreign Liquor Branch in the same district. নিয়মাবলীর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক নিয়ম অনুসারে ১০ই জুলাই 
১৯৫৬ হইতে ১৮ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ পর্যন্ত নয় দিনের আজণ্ত ছুটি 
মঞ্জুর করা হইয়াছিল। 
No. 25kixe.—27th July 1956.—Shri Banamali অশোক SY AY, 


Bhattacharyya, Inopector of Excise, Calcutta, is 


۹ 8611:۴ | 
allowed earned leave for fifteen daya under rule : : 
107011) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, No, 9018C.T.—30th July 1956.—Shri Suresh 
with eftect from 12th July 1956. Chandra Sarkar, Personal Assistant to the Con 


missioner of Commercial ‘Taxes, West Bengal, 

was granted earned leave for vine days from the 

_ 10th July 1956 to the J8th July 1956 under rule 

SEN, Commissioner. —167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part 1.‏ .لا 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


3027 


No. 720.T.—26th July 1956.—In pursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 


(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of newly 
Serial Namo of the dealer, 
No. place of 
business. 
1 2 8 4 
1 Misti Mahal »» Station Road, Bolpur, re 
district Birbhum. 
2 MusafirRam BholaProsad Munshibasar, Asansol, 7 
district Burdwan. 
8 Md. Habib Khan »» North Bazar, Ondal, dis- Ks 
trict Burdwan. 
4 Bharat Pan Stores «« Burnpur, district Burd- ay 
wan. 
& Shib Sankar Dalal and Baswa, district Birbhum ix 
Brothers. 
6 Asoka Bhandar oe Bank Road, Rampurhat, os 
district Birbhum. 
7? Janki Prasad es Munshibazar, Asansol, 7 
district Burdwan. 


Road, Calcutta. 


9 811 Gopal Bhandar .. Chowdhurybazar, Burd- on 
wan. 


10 Vulcan Blectric and 12 Lower Chitpore Road, - 
Engineering Co. alcutta, 


11 Wire Metal Industries .. 135 সা Road, Cal- 7 
cutta. 


Address and ‘tid placeof Additional No.and date of Goods for usec in manufacture or 
business. aes br par 
certificate. 


& 


AS/1780A, 
17-6۰ 


,171۸ھ 
,179-0 


,۸8ھ 


87-7-66, 


AS/1783A, 


17-7-1956. 


,84ھ 


17-7-66 


AS/1786A, 


17-7-66 


AS/1786A, 


17-7-00. 


BH/2818A, 
14-7-0. 


1213/11614, 


17-06. 


017۸۰, 
29-7-0, 


0 ۸, 
11-۰, 


registered 


dealers together with a description of 


the goods covered by their registration certificates 
are published for general information :— 


Goods for rosale. 
in the execution of contracts. 


6 


رامرا0ا- دن رما Raw‏ 1( 

ea 

(2) Plant. 1 1ھ‎ apare parte 
and accessories. 


flour, রি 


(8) Consumable stores, vis., coke, 
iron pan, wooden trays. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
88108 tax is claimed are Intended 
for use in the actual process 
of manufacturs of the goods 
named below :— 


t) Sweetmeats, 
8) Nonta goods. 
(ttt) Tea. 


epee Mustard seed, যা oll, ০০০০৫" 
nut oil, ghee, 


08 
verntabie products, po ee 
chillies, dhant poppy 


(1) Raw materials,— Hiri tobacco, 
birl leaves, packing paper, 
labels. 


(2) Plant, পল de 
parts and accemories 


(3) Consumable stores, ۱ 
thread and coal. 


Provided that all goods for 
whichexemptionfrom payment 
of wales tax is claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture of tho 
goods named below :-~ 


(4) Birt. 


spare 


Pee Stationery goods, 10105, 
apices, cocoanut oil, 
8080), 


lozenge, 
birl and 


(1) Raw materiala— Silk yarn, 
(2) be he machinery, spare parte 
and acocasorics. 


Silk fabrics. 


(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from payment 
of salea tax is claimed are 
intended for ue in the actual 
process of manufacture of the 
goods named below سیب‎ 


($) Silk fabrics, 


ore Hardware goods. 


بصعت یس stationery‏ 


Pan.‏ و 


(1) Raw materiala. 
(2) Plant, sa a spare parts 


Gold bullion and silver bars. 


and 86 
(3) Consumable stores, viz., acid, 
copper. 


Provided that all gooda for 
whioh exemption from payment 
of sales tax is claimed = are 
Intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture 01 the 
goods named below ১. 


(4%) (9910 and 811৩: ornaments. 


কর Cereals, pulses, গহনা oll, 0৮০০ 
hut ofl, caator—ol alee, 
gur, sugar, match, oe soap, 
barley, atta, flour, salt, spicea, 

ppy ৯৩১৫৪, groundnu ০, 
» mustard seeds. 


cows Electrical goods and hardwares, 


(1) Raw materiala. Hardwaro, iron and steel, electrioal 
s, machineries, machine 
(3) Plant, sea sparo parts parta, 


and acoussurics 

(8) Consumable sotres. 

Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from payment 
of 8118 tax ie clatined 
are intended for use ما‎ the 


actual provess of manufacture 
of the gools named below i 


(t) arbor! wire, 
(#4) Wooden bobbins, 
(44) Steol mausalacturing ৪০০০৪, 


3028 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


(Parr I 


পপি 


Serial Name of the dealor, Address and اسم‎ place و کو‎ 
No. of business. lace of of  reglatra- 
.۵83۰ا 0ا لانا‎ tion - 
cate, 
1 2 3 4 5 
18 Lune Corporation .- 43 Ezra Street, Calcutta টা CL/27387A. 
11-7-56. 
13 Messrs, Hanumanmal 203/1 Harrison Road, ৬৬ 60817127044, 
Jagadish ۲۱۵۵۵۰ Caloutta. 18-7-0۰ 
14 ےئ‎ Dinadayal Suresh 7 Kalakar Street, ee পা 
00001. 100৮৬, 14-7-56. 
156 Messrs. Moosin +» 11 Esplanade East, Cal- os 201/61۰, 
cutta. 17-7-56. 
16 Mesars. Jenkee ee 11 Esplanade East, os EL/3162A, 
Calcutta. 17-0 
17 Messrs. Eastern Soap 71 Bhairab Dutta Lane, ۰ HW/1710A, 
Works. Salkia, Howrah. 16-7-56, 
اس‎ 
18 Messrs. Oriental Engi- ৪7 Dharamtolla Boad rae HW/1720A, 
neering Co. Krishnadayal Jalan 18-7-56. 
), P. O. Ghusury, 
How 
19 Moeasrs. Biswakarma Tron 10/12Ramkrishna Mandir ٦ HW/17214, 
Works (Foundry)Private Path, North Bantra, 18-7-56. 
Ltd. Howrah. 
a 
— 
20 Shyamadas Mitra -» (07085, Jalpaiguri .. ৬৬ JP/1486A, 
18-7-66. 
21 ۶. C, Sarkar »০ P.O. Chalsa, Jalpaiguri! oak JP/1487A, 
13-7-56. 
22 3B. B. Chatterjee ہے‎ P.O. Gairkata, Jalpai- aa 0 
gurl. 16-7-56. 
23 Jatindra NathSeha .. Hatkhola, Alipurduar, 20, 
Jalpaiguri. 18-7-0. 
24 Measrs. 90119085518 Rice Sonakania, Midoapore রর MN 19084, 
Mills. 18-7-5 6, 


», 8105 tax 
;% intended for use in the actual 


No. and date Gooda for use in manufacture or 


in tho execution of contracta. 


ene@ 


৬৪৪৬ 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 


Provided that all goods for 
which excmption from payment 
of sales tax in claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture of the 
goods named below :— 


(6) Washing soap. 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories. 


Provided that all goods for which 

% exemption from payment of 
88198 tax ھا‎ claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture of the 
goods named below :-—~ 


(i) Motal cocks and valves. 


(1) Raw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 


: and accessories : 
Provided that al) goods for which 


exemption from payment of 
olai are 


process of manufacture of the 


goods named below :‏ رات 


(4) Cast iron pans. 


Raw materials, timber, tools 
and implements. 
Provided that all goode for 


which exemption from payment 
of sales tax is claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
proceas of manufacture of 
sawn timber. 


Baw materials, timber, tools and 
Implements. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from payment 
of sales tax is claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture of 
sleepers, scants, planks. 


Raw materials, timber. 


Provided that all goods 107 
which exemption from panyment 
of sales tax is claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture of sawn 
timber and logs. 


৮৬ কক 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 


(3) Consumable stores, viz., coal) 


and engine 01174 


Provided that allfoods for which 
exemption ۰8 froin gage 
of wales taxis olaimed 
intended for use in thegiactual 
process of manafacture of the 
goods named helowk—~, 


1৫৩, 


Mili-made cloths, 


اس 
Goods for resale.‏ 
7 
Toilets, perfumories, B. blades and‏ 
boot pollsh.‏ 
Readymade garmenta.‏ 


Non-ferrvus metals, 


وھ 


روف 


vee 


Timber and sawn timber. 


Sleepers, scant, planks, 


Timber, sawn timber and logs. 


shirting, 
a test blanket, 
blanket, umbrella, handivom 
cloth, hosiery yoods, 8018 
goods, readyimade garmonte. 


Bir 


জগ 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and +5۰4 


(3) Consumable sotres, vis., lead, 
acid, cuntaluers, eovers, supa- 
rators, I 8 compound, ۵ 
pats, distilled water, fuel, orga- 
nie and ۰۴۷ chemicals. 


Provided that all 8০০৫৪ for 
whioh exemption from payment 
of sales tax fa |4 are 
intended for ase in the actual 
process of manufacture of the 
goods named below :-— 


Battories, battery-plates bat- 
Ht vovera, batter}-pate of 
oad, 


Part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 30029 
serial Namoofthodealer. Address and chief place Additiona, No. and date Goods for uso صا‎ manufacture or Goods for resale. 
No of business, lace of of  registra- in the executlon of contracta, 
/ usiness. tion  0৫1010 
cate. 
3 2 8 4 6 6 ? 
rs. 8k. Lala «» 284 Goalbazar, Kharag- ve MN/1304A, তর পি 
| 0ء‎ pur, i 13-7-56, 
%0 ۵٥ Mutual Benefit Kanchrapara, 24-Parga- aa 270/18 63۸, (1) Raw materials. کے‎ 
Canteen. nas. 2266-60. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 
(8) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from paymont 
of sales tsx is claimed are 
intended tor use 17 the 
actual process of manufacture 
ofthe goods named below :— ° 
($) Tea, eweetmeat, cooked 
/ 100৫৯, 
081 and Wagon Kanochrapara, 24-Parga- PG/1864A, (1) Raw materalala. চর 
a Mutual Benefit Canteen. nas. : ایا‎ 
(2) Plant, machinory, spare parte 
and accessories. 
(3) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for 
which exumption from payment 
of slacs tax {se claimed are 
intended for use in the actual 
process of manufacture of the 
goods named bulow ১. 
(1). Tea, swoetmest. cooked 
foods. 
وط‎ Josepukur Brick Works رج ھا‎ P.0.Raj- os PG/1865A, (1) Raw materiala. 
pur, 24-Parganas, 28-06-56. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and ৯১০08801198 
(3) Consumable atores, viz., coal. 
Provided thaa all goods for 
which exemption from payment 
of sales tax ia claimed are 
iutended for 080 in the actual 
process of manufacture of the 
goods named below سے‎ 
($) Bricks. 
29 HemantakumarChatterjes Mitrapara Road, Nathati, ۰ sry aa Be Pre Soft coke. 
24-18. 12-7-0. 
80 Mewar. National Art 1Chandni Chowk 8٤ ‘ 81/2095۸, (1) Raw materials. নিন 
8)0 ۰ھ 0ا02‎ 11-7-0. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 
(8) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all gooda for 
which oxemption from payment 
of sales tax ia claimed = are 
futended for use inthe actaul 
process of manutacture of the 
89968 named below :-— 
(0) Silk-screen printing. 
81 a ee Shell 64/5 سوا‎ Main 7 دی‎ ee (1) Raw materials, Stone-lime and lima. 
{ « Q . ر‎ cutta. ون‎ তু ry 
রিনি: (2) Plant, machinery, sparo parts 
and ৪00৬5807168. 
(3) Consumable stores, vis., stony, 
liute, shell, coal, basket, spade, 
unny bag, bucket, tin- con- 
Iner, 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from payment 
of 88198 tax claim are 
intended for use in tho actual 
proceaa of manufacture of the 
৪০০৫৪ named boluw, سے‎ 
Lime. 
82 81০88, Riectron Batterloa 24 Suresh Sircar Road, <3 TL/2017A, (1) Raw materials Batterica, containers, covers, 
Private Ltd, Calcutta. 1081.0, 


battery-platoa, separators, acid, 
lead 


oxides a 
lamipa. 


low voltage 


3030 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


(Parr ] 


+ 


ই উল ER TNR a NERA EN a A A 


No. 73C. T.—26th 


Berial Name of the dealer. 
No 


1 2 
1 سا‎ India Trading 
0. 


2 New Indian Box Manu- 
facturing Co. 


8 Urban aaa A 
Aasociatio 


4 (8) Raghunath Dutt 
for کک ون‎ 
or Raghuna u 
& Sons, Ltd. 


& (8) Mesars. Bihar Agents 


jaa Ltd., for 


jhar Agents 
Menara. Qyaniram 
Shyamsundar & Co. 


7 Messrs. Rama Burlop 
Trading Co. 


8 Mesers. Bhatter & Co. 


Messrs. Narayandas‏ و 
Pokarmal & Sons.‏ 


10 ئ‎ ১. (১০০ Keajoria 

Broa , (Private), 2005 

jor Mc sors, Kajoria 
Bros. Ltd. 

11 (8) Mesers, The Inter- 
national Enterprisers 
Private Ltd., for 
Mesers. The Inter- 
মাত Enterprisers 


Prasad 
h Kumar. 


Harman & Co (1778) 
Ltd. 


12 Raghubir 
Rayesh 


18 


14 Mezers. Raojibhal 


Somabha: Patel & 
Co. 


18 (8) Menars. Modern 


16 Messrs, A. Manekchand 
& Co. 


Mesars. Chandi Charan 
Boee & Brothers. 


17 


18 


19 Meners. 


Chandta 


(8) Meners. Chandi 
Mi dicat Stores 
(Private) Ltd., for 
ই ۰. (28001 
Medical 


Stores 
Limited, 


July 


Address and ای‎ place of Additional 
business lace 


3 
159 Chittaranjan Avenue, 
Caleutta. 


9B Kartick Bose Lane, 
Calcutta. 


(৪) 827 Sahitya Parisad 
Street, Calcutta for 
6 6, Hare Street, 
Calcutta. 


ند 83/2 


Street, 
Calcutta 


186 Cotton 


Street, 
Calcutta. 


Mullick‏ ساس اس الہ ھ41 
Lane, Calcu‏ 


185 Cotton Street, 
Calcutta. 

13 Kali Krishna Tagore 
Street, Calcutta. 


182 Cotton Street, 
Calcutta. 

9 Jagmohan Mullick Lane, 
Calcutta. 

20 Mallick Street, 
Calcutta. 

8 Amratolla Street, 
Calcutta. 

(8) 12 ০ or 

nt, 

il Governeent at Place, 
Kast, Calcutta. 

87 Rupchand Roy Street, 
Calcutta. 

3 ضط‎ ea Church 
Street, Calcutia. 


8B <Amratolla Street 
Calcutta, Room No. 37. 


in 74, Crom Street, 
Calcutta, Jor G@. T. 
Road, Burdwan. 


BA Amratolla Lane, 
Cakcut 


۰ 


15/2 Armenian Street, 
Calcutta. 


14/4 Bonflelda Lane, 
Calcutta. 


1956.—In 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers whose registrations under the Act were 


(18  - 1+ 


of 
usiness, 


4 


ve 


ee 


Calcutta-8 


ae 


Calcutta (1) 


os 


ee 


ae 


No. and date of Goods for use in manufacture 


registration 
certificates. 


6 
53177119378, 
20-7-60 


BNI/2614A, 
21 11-66, 


(8) 
BDI/2678A, 
or 
EBL/8118A, 
16-3-56, 


BDI/100B, 
10-65-49. 
BDIT/10438A 
80-10-42, 
11101694, 
18-8-56, 
BDI1/2735A, 
80-5-56. 
BDIT/2306A, 
23-5-61. 


ata 
20-10-56 


BDII/1108A, 
29-65-48. 


C81/188B, 
25৮5৪, 


6811/3811۸, 
30-4-00, 
(8) 
006, 
21-6-54 
for 
EL /2597A 
27-90-41. 
0811/2002۸, 
24-1 1 61۔‎ ۰ 


068617, 
2-0-66, 


00۸۰ 
17-11-65. 


2 
08177198518, 
11-7-0 


2× 


,48۔7'ہ۔ 


0811/2410۸, 
29. 50, 

03111824748, 
28-0-65. 


08117111798 
17-77-42. 


or in the execution of the 
contracts 


(41 Raw materiala— 
nting machineries and 
accessories, printing ink, 
type and quotations. 


(2) Plant, machinery spare 
parts and accessori 


(3) Consumable stores, 


Provided that all for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
ac rocese of manufac- 
ture the goods named 
below: — 


Cartons for sale, 


eeeen 


@ene 
eene 


eee 


eeee 


aowet 


روب 


@eue 


نر بب 


৬৪৬ 


ooge 


وف 


Goods for reaale. 


7 


(A) Jute products és 


ار مب 


لف 


(A) টা 8, s angie, M. he chan- 
ne pipes, 8698 rods, 
kardee seed. 


(A) Hessian cloth, heasain 
bag and canvas, 


(A) Electric wire, lead-coverad 
cables, electric awitches. 


এটি Jolata, electric motors, 
nuts, M. ৪. channels, 
8 , Tods and pumps. 


رطف 


(D) Jute. (+2 টাক bags 
and jute tw 

(A) Biri leaves ক 

(A) Hardware .. ae 

Po secds, methi, 

اف کین sg‏ 


cutch, damar batu, ekan 
dhania. chandani, grou 
nut ol], cocoanut oll and 
groundnuta, 


৮৪৯৬ 


amended with effect from the date noted againgt 
each of them and in respect of the particulars 
appearing in the different columns in the manner 
indicated against such particulars are published 
for general information :— 


Date of 
amond. 
ment 


17-7-5 


٠ 
18-7-8 
0-7-5 


10-77-61 


10-7-64 


11-77-54 


18-7-5 


18775 


).9۔17 


ا5 5-0 1 


21-0-5 


6-7-5 


10-7-5 


10-7-5¢ 


110 


12.7) 


.7م 1 


4.1.1 


Pant I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3031 


٦ 
—= ہے سس‎ সস] 
serial Name of the dealer, Address and chief place Additional Noand date Goods for use in manufacture Goods fur resale, Date of 
No. of business. place of of registra- or in the execution of con- amend- 
business. tion certificate, tracts. ment. 
1 2 8 4 5 6 7 8 
21 (9) Mesars, N, Das & Sons 88 سس سو‎ Road ee sia ce err 18-7-56 
rivate) Limited, Cale 22-6-56, 
پر‎ Messrs. N, Das & 
Bons Ltd 
(8) Binsol ماف یی‎ 48 Strand Road, oe CBIV /20GA, er : سی‎ 11-8 
(Private Pina Calcutta. 10-12-41, 
Messrs. B eee سا‎ ers 
Ltd. ٠ 
28 Premsukhdas Shew- Kalimpong ۰ 8 133/522۸, قوج‎ (D) General merchanaslse ng 14-7-66 
0 15-5-00. না when required for 16০ 


(A) Perfurned oil, বা oll, 
ectlonery motor 
সে gold, ভা ون ا ا‎ 
ا‎ ৮ canvas and tarpau- 
one and umbrella 
س6‎ copper and 


٠ চিতা 
24 Sreechand Omprakash Kalimpong ৪ ie DI/751A, দরের Plain sheets, cream and vase- 14-7-88 
و وہ‎ lin, um brella, cigarette 
is 0868, aretto pipes, nail 


and silver dollars. 
25 Ratiram Banshilall .. Kalimpong os ৯৪ DJ /45B, err (D) General merchandise as 18-7-56 
18-10-41, and when required for re- 
sale. 
(A) Charcoal, firewood, diesel 
ol, aaa کی‎ kod phase 
ne and 
2, sheets and iron 81১৩৫, 
26 Messrs. Kayal Com- 2 Waterloo Street, Cal- os EL/8007A, ane (A) Phenyle, disinfectant 18-7-56 
mercia] Co, cutta. 18-8-55, pues a and petro- 
leum, je 
27 গিনি National India 16 Haro Street, Calcutta. وو‎ EL/3126A, শির নিন 18-7-56 
radera (Private) 6-4-66. 
jor 
Messre National India 
Traders Ltd. 
£8 Moers R. H. Rose 9৭৭1 Vansitart Row, -. HL/2640A, وو وو وھ‎ 16-7-56 
Ltd. cutta 24-10-55. وہ‎ 
or 
7 Wellesley Palce, Cal- 
cutta. 
20 Mesrs. The Caloutta 86 Brabourne Road, ৬৪ EL/2776A, (A) Printed cartons and boxes بے‎ 16-7-56 
Corrugated Paper Co. Caloutta. 10-7-63 
80° Messrs. M. P.M. Ram- 86 Brabourne Road, রঃ (8) (8) (1) Raw materials. (A) Wooden boxes ue 16-7-56 
aswamy Chettler & Calcutta. El/S159A, 
Co. ‘or (2) Plant, سس‎ spare 
EL/174B, parte and accessori 
13-2-51. 
(8) Consumable stores. 
Provided that al) goods for ‘ 
which exemptton from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual سر‎ of manufac- 
ture the goods named 
below سخ‎ 
Tanned hides, 
Raw hides 6 chemicals 
(1) Any other raw materials, 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parta, acoossorics کہ‎ tone 
sumable stores, 
(8) Building or plumbing ma- 
terfale or fixtures required 
for conatruction, fit out 
or re of any building, 
certified by the purchasing 
paige to ee ae 
use in any process in 
manufacture of tanned hides 
for sale, 
81 Messrs Chatter & (8) 687) এ পা Btr- (A) Calcutta (8 eos ৬৪৪৪ 16-7-66 
Chakrabarty سی سا‎ ect, 0810 ent dy. মা, ‘ 
22 Bukeas Lane, Calcutta 0, 
25-01, 
82 Messrs. Commercial (8) 7 Dacres Lane, Cal- ee Lm ৬৬৪৬ ever 17-7-86 
পি 5 Ber- cutta, 75 38۱ 
oo 
42 Motisil Street, Cal- TL/1758A, 
cutta, 28-7-62. 
88 Menara, y. Mukherjeo 7 Wollealcy Place, Cal- en BL/8004A, ৪৪%৬ ہہ‎ 17-6 
& Sons, Private ltd. cutta, 9-1-60. 
or 
Meaare, P. Mukhorjee 
& Bons Ltd, 
canara Victory Rupnly 6 Old Ohinabaxat Btreot, 7 72111913248, সঃ Medicine, padlock, 0818 For resale ০ 1 
af M ee ty ای سد‎ Calouttea 16-7-40. bricants. nta, 119৩৫ 
+۰ cooking medium, ollman 
a . porfumery, sta- 
tionery, canned frulta, iron 5 


te and 1700 scraps, 


3032 


Serlal Name of the dealer. 
No. 


86 


87 (8) 5 N 7 


2 6یس 
and/or Sinha and‏ 
Co. for Sinha and Co.‏ 
Paul Bros. and Sons‏ 88 


89 Banik Brothers ¥* 


2. K. Paul and J, ۰ 
Biswas. 


a 


40 


Hindusthan 011 


41 170 Messrs. Sri 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


সপ place of শপ‏ بند سس 


lace of 
lusiness, 
8 4 
$53/4 G.T. Road, North, we 
owrah. 
(8) Sevok Road, Bairagi- (D) Sovok 
pers. P. Q. "Bktiasal, Road, 
ee اس‎ Siliguri, Bairagl- 
Darjeel ara, ۰ 
Cktiaga}, 
alpaiguri. 
Khagra, Murshidabad .. ee 
Khagra, Murashidabad .. (A) Katwa, 
Burdwan. 
Balurghat, West Dinaj- (A) Kalla- 
pur. » Weat 
Dinajpur. 
Chaulpattl, Panihati, a 
24-08. 


476 Diamond Harbour 
Behala, Cal- 


No. and date of (9০৫5 for use in manufacture 


registration 
oertificates. 


5 


HW/1580A, 
86-7-64. 


(2871), P/1485A, 
J 20 
1-6-40. 


KRB/77B, 
dn-55, 


rel ar 
17-4. 


)()6(0 1, 
17 
ML/228A, 
26-§-61. 


PG/1§94A, 
28-48. 


rage 


14৩0 OW Mill cutta-34. 
Gyasmoni 
Bhow Shaw. 
lnagar Saw Ghosepara Road, Haxzi- ۰ PG/1467A, 
রা ر5‎ eo Gourl nagar, 24-Parganas. 30-496. 
Shankar noe Mills. 

Messrs. Hindusthan- 4 Chittaranjan Avenue, Pao §L/2724A, 
Pilkington Glass Calcutta. 788 
Works Ltd. 

৮টি 

2 and Co. ۱ ডা Calcutta, Sor 81.7-68. 
Private 1+. for P-89 Mision Row 
Measrs, men Boewell Extension, Calcutta. 
and Co., 

45 (8) Meesrs. E. A. 14 Chittaranjan Avenue, ae 8L/1887A, 
Currtm (Private) Calcutta. 14-65-48. 
1۷0.۰ Messrs. 
E. A. m Ltd, 

46 Messrs. Albert David 15 Chittaranjan Avenue, oe নি 
Ltd. Calcutta. 4-90-41. 

6? (8 Mesers. Hatwasiya Chittaranjan Avonne, ৪ BL/210B, 
شید سای‎ Ltd., 0 وی‎ 


for 
Mossrs Halwaaiya TAd. 


or in the excoution of the 
contracta. 


৪ উ$ 


eevee 


"“ aees 


(D) Chemica mincrals, 
packing materials and 


(1) any other raw materials, 


(2) plant, পর spare 
॥ accessories and con- 
sumable stores, 


(8) building or plumbing 
materials, or 0560, 
শা for conatruction, 
৪ out or repair of any 
building certified by the 
purchasing dealer to be 
required for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of shect 81988 for sale 


(A) (1) Raw materials. 
) Plant, machinery, spare 
7 parte and accessorics. 
(8) Consumable stores. 
vided that all goods for 
080277 exemption from 
payment of sales tax ia 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual of 
manufacture of the goods 
na ow ~~ 


(4) Sheet glass. 


eee 


(D) Drugs, chemicals and 


1 
&3} 
fen Eatin مہ" و‎ 
(8) Building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures, ro- 


Binge for construction fit- 
out or repair of any 


Any other raw matorials, 
ا‎ গস spare 
Trica and con- 


ding, certified by the 
purcliaing dealer be 
required for ase in any 


process in the manufacture 
of pharmaceutical produots, 


(A) (1) Baw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parte and accessori 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of salos taxis claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
below : ॥ গাজা 


(4) Pharmaccutical 010 
ducta, 


بر .ےب 


অই ৭ ও 0‏ رر رہ روش شر مہ شس لج سس ےس و یت ہں 


Goods for !۶ہ‎ ۱(۰ 


(A) 8. 0. sheet 


৪৪৯৬ 


(A) 0.0, I, Sheets 


رر مب 


৪৬৬৯৪ 


৬৬৬৩ 


یر مب 


بر ریب 


oneae 


[Parr I 


Date of 
amond- 
ment, 


17-97-66 


17-77-56 


16-7-56 


8-7-56 


a6 


101-0 


10-7-56 


12-7-56 


12-7-66 


1-04 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


+ 


Serial Name of the dealor, ৮ বাল, سم‎ place of 8 No. and date Goods for 159 in manufacture 


No. ve of of registration 
business. certificatey. 

i 2 8 & 5 

45 (3) Mossrs. New Ex- 42 Chittaranjan Avenue, 72 SL 9068, 
change Private Ltd., Calcutta. 5-44. 

for 
Moesars. New Exchange 
Ltd. 

40 (8) ry Germline ۵ Mirzapore Street, পর 91/23748। 

Private Ltd., Calcutta, 30-10-41. 
for 
Mesars. Germline Ltd. 

50 Messrs. Caltex (India) 22 Chittaranjan Avenue, ei SL/1058A4, 
Ltd. Calcutta, 29-11-41, 

61 (8) Mesars. Lahiri 65/1 চর Strect, Cal- ۰ 8/00۸, 

Brothers Private Ltd. cutta 2-12-50, 
Sor 
Messrs Lahiri Brothors 
Ltd. 
52 once Pape Asbes- 24 وا ا اک‎ Avenue, ae SL/248hA, 
61118 28-9-41, 
৫5852 ۲ 2 
Sor 
সি ai "ھ2‎ 
0801 
(ھا۲۱۷۸)‎ Ltd. 
58 (8) Kalikrishna Pra- Shaganj, Hooghl oa 85 
ای‎ k, ام یت‎ 1528. 
for 
Mesers. Ramkrishna 
Pramanick and 1۰+ 
krishna Pramanick. 

84 (8) Serampore Hoalery Municipal Market, 80۰ 1095/1 Har- SP/710, 
Textile and Indus ramporv, Hooghly. tisom Road, 1085৭, 
tries Private Ltd., পর 

for 
Scrampore Hoadery 
Textile and Indus- 
tries Ltd, 
55 (8)Menare, Majuls Ltd., راہ‎ প্র Street, 7۰ Tees 
Morara Majuta, 


12191075207 notes.—Regarding the amend- 


wents made, the following Code letters have been 
Med to indicate the manner in which the parti- 


or in the execution of the 
contracts. 


vee 


গু 


(D) Tin plate and ia 
(1) Any other raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts, 00558011655 and con- 
sumable stores. 


(3) Bullding or plumbing 
materials or fixtures, re- 
quired for construction fit- 
ting out or repair of any 
bullding certiNed by the 
purchasing dealer to be 
requircd for use in any 
process in the manufacturo 
of Kerosine ting for sale, 


(A) (1) Baw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, apare 
parts and accessories. 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax ھا‎ claimed 
arc intended for use in the 
actus) process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
below :— 


(st) Kerosine tins. 


ক জগ ও 


(D) and 
(1) Any other raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
ta, sooeasories and con- 
sumable atorea. 
(3) ناجا حص لام کر ای ا‎ 
materials fixtures requi- 
red for "لو‎ fitting 
out or ee of |? 68۰ 
ing o@rtified by the pur- 
chaslng dealer to be requi- 
red for use 11) any process 
in the manufacture of In- 
শপ composition for 
0. 


(A) (1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, are 
parts and ৪০১০৪৪01168, 


(3) Consumable atores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of salea tax ۱۵١ claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the gooda named 
০০1০৬: 


(6) Yasulating compositions 


(D) A and B certified for use 
in the process in the 0۰+ 
facturo of brass fand bell- 
motal utensils. 


(8) (1) vis.. brags and copper 
ا‎ for circles, bell metal, 
یٹ‎ 3) provided that all’ 

or which exemption 

সি of salen tax 

ia a med are intended for 

use in the actual proocas 

of manufacture of goods 
named below 

(1) Brass and boll metal 
000۰ 


ধক 


eves 


(A) meane 4-۰ 


(TY) means “Delete”. 
(S) means “Substitute”, 


Goods for resale, 


৬৮৮৬ 


৪৩ এ 


eee 


eee 


& 


3038 


12-7-56 


12-7256 


127 


1+0 


18-0 


14-7-06 


culars of a registration have been amended :— 


3034 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, 


No. 74C. T.—26th July 1956.—In pursuance of 
the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers together with a description of the goods 


AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr ] 


টি شش‎ IE سس‎ ELLE سی پش خض‎ পপ সি 


ہے 


covered by their registration certificates whose 
registrations under the Act were cancelled with 
effect from the date noted against each of them 
are published for general information :— 


Serial Name of the dealer, Address and chief place of Additional No. and date Goods for the use in manufac- Goods for re-sale. Dae of 
No. business. place of of registration 0০ or jn the execution of can ‘ella. 
; business, certificate contracts, tion, 
1 2 8 4 5 6 7 8 
1 Rajlakhi Bastralaya 122/1/1 Upper Ciroular os BDI/1886A, Sewing machine and A, 13) ٣ Toxtile goods. 18-7. 
Bont ( Caloutta. 29-9-47, certified by the purchasing রি 8 
dealer to be required for . 
use in any process in the 
manufacture of garments 
for sale, 
2 Messrs. Bayanwalla 9 Jagamohan Mullick ox BDIT/2804A, uae Belting, milk powder and 100 
Agenta Ltd. Lane, Calcutta, 17-12-61, products, jute and jute 
ফা পপ shellac, 80181) 1:01, 
ardware, general 
stores, laboratory goods 
and chemicals. 
$ Mosats. National Tea 180 Cotton Street, Cal- Darjeeling BDII/178B, ا‎ Chemicals, modicines, 61100710756 
Corporation. cutta. (1). 6-8-52, sera, hatdware gouds. 
4 Mesers. Raghunathram 2 Doychatta Street, as BDII/1718A, ৪৩৬৬ Spices, paper, atationery and 10-0 
Bharatprosad. Calcutta. 19-5-48. all othor genera] merchan- 
রঃ نس‎ 0189 as and when required 
۱ - ; ; and certified by the dealer 
for resale. 
6 Messrs. Peary Mohan 281 Maharshi! Debendra es BDIIT/96A, er Tomarind, bags ve 17-17-56 
Das Manik Lal Das. Road, Calcutta. 2441 
6 ا٭عمەلا‎ National 12 Chowringhee Square, ae EL/1462A, Mik, flour, dextin and A, B, ٦ 18-06 
Nutrimente Ltd. Calcutta. 6-1-44. C certified for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
off vita milk, milk powder, 
biscuits and ghee for gale. 
7 8 0, Bhar and Sons beria, P. O. Ulubggia, es HW/1825A, (1) Jute, bhusjandany other Jute ee ৬৬ 180 
owrah, 20-7-61, raw materials. 
(2) Pant, machinery, spare 
parts, accessories and con- 
sumable stores, 
(8) Building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures 
required for construction, 
fitting out or repair of any 
building certified by the 
Purch AGE dealer be 
required for use in any 
procesa in the manufacture 
of jute caddies for sale. 
8 Messrs. Radha Nath J-474 Pa Road, ۰ PG/1448A, ee Mill-made cloths টু 29-4-04 
(30080. ~Garden ch, 24- 8-4-2, 
Parganas. 
9 Messrs. D, M. Roy & Lakshminarayan Colony, we PG/1672A, 13716508565 and A, B certified Lime, building materials ہے‎ 20-6-56 
Sons, Pp. O. Baraset, 24- 7-86-54, by the purchasing dealer 
Parganas. to be required for use 110 
any process in the manu- 
facture of surki for sale. 
10 Messrs.8,8.Mookerjee Barascet, 24-Parganas a PG/P42A, save Coal, cement, lime, sand, 2006 
20-8-4, acorkd. 
Messrs. Saktimata 01] 480A Diamond Harbour as PG/S831A, Mustard seeda and A, B Gunny bags ax 8-06 
নি Mil. سیت‎ Koad, Behala, 24- 5-5-49, certified by the purchasing 


Parganas. 


Ezplanatory notes.—Regarding “goods for use in 
manufacture or in the execution of contracts’ the 
following code letters have been used to indicate 
the meanings noted against each :— 


(A) Other raw materials, 


dealer to be required for 
use in any process in the 
manufacture of mustard 
a and mustard cake for 
8886, 


(13) Plant, machinery, spare parts, accessoriet 
and consumable stores. 

(0) Building and Plumbing materials ۴ 
fixtures required for construction, 6008 
out or repair of any building. 


Pant T] 


No. 75C.7.—~26th July 1956.— In pursuance of 
the provisions of sub-rule (8) of Rule 27A of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, it is notified for 
general information that the following declaration 
forms have been reported to be lost, destroyed or 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whom 
these declaration forms were issued and are invalid 
for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1041, and Bengal Sales Tux Rules: — 


Sorial No. of the declaration Name, address and rogistration 
forms reported to be lost, certificate number of the regis- 
destroyed or stolen. tered deuler to whom issued 

and from whom lost, destroyed 
or stolen. 


(1) (2) 


(1) A/5-685501 to A/5-635550 Messrs. Varma Cutchi Supply- 
ing Co. Private Ltd., 53 Ezra 
Street, Calcutta. CL/2224A. 


(2) A/8-211197, A/3-211198. Messrs. Supercrafts Ltd., 2 
A/8-211186. Dalhousio Square East, Cal- 
cutta. EL/1199A. 


Mesars. Hindusthan Electric Co., 
Ltd., 184 J. N. Mukherjee 


(3) A/4-338492 and 
A/4-338404. 
Road, Salkia, Howrah. HW/- 
19013, 


Messrs. Bengal Enamel Works 
Ltd., 60/2 Dharamtolla 


(4) A/4-697044 
Street, Calcutta. 1/۱۸۰ 


A. C. ROY, Commissioner. 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 6405/M.1C0-83/56.—24th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Corporation of Calcutta have, by a 
resolution passed at their meeting held on the 
29th June 1956, made a recommendation under 
clause (xxi) of section 526 of the Calcutta Municipal 
Act, 1961 (West Bengal Act XXXIIT of 1951), 
that the taking over by the Corporation of the two 
chest clinics, one at Tanyra, known ag_ the 
“Gobinda Khatick nit’ and the other at 
Thackery Road, Belvedere, known as the ‘Calcutta 
Rangers’ Club Unit’, is a matter likely to promote 
the public health, safety and convenience of the 
persons resident in Calcutta ; 


No. 6616/M.2B-1 /56.—28th July 1966.—Whereas the 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3035 


Now, therefore, the Governor, in exercise of the 
power conferred by the said clause, is pleased to 
declare that the said matter is one which is likely 
to promote the public health, safety and 
convenience within tha meaning of the said clause. 


/M.10-38/56.—26th July 1956.—In‏ 6481 ہگ 
exercise of the power conferred by section 60, read‏ 
with section 69 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951‏ 
(West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951), the Governor‏ 
to make the following amendment in the‏ سا رد is‏ 
Calcutta Corporation (Conduct of Elections of‏ 
Councillors) Rules, 1952, published under notifica-‏ 
tion No. M.3R-14/52, dated the 4th July 1952:—‏ 


Amendment 


For clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 53 of the 
said rules, substitute the following clause, 
namely :— 


‘“(b) in case the vacancy occurs during the 
period of three months mentioned in sub- 
section (2) of section 69 of the Act and 
the term of office of the Councillors and 
Aldermen is subsequently extended by the 
State Government under the proviso to 
section 67 of the Act during the said 
period of three months, from the date of 
the notification issued under the said 
proviso: 

Provided that, ,in case the vacanc 
before this clause comes into force, the 
said period 01 two months shall be 

۱ computed from the date on which the 
clause comes into force.’’ 


orcurs 


24.Parganas.—No. 6527 / M.3R-33 /55.—26th 
July 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred b 
sub-section (1) of section 812 of the Bengal Muni- 
cipal Act, 1932 (Bengal Aut XV of 1932), the 
Governor is pleased to declare that Schedule VI 


unicipality in the district of 24-Parganas. 


§ the suid Act shall be in force in the Garulia 


24-Parganas,-—-No. 6528/ M.3R-33 /55.—26th July 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (2) of section 312 of the Bengal Municipal 
Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV of 1932), the Gover- 
nor is pleased to extend the provisions of section 
315, sections 317 to 327 and section 329 of the said 
Act to the Garulia Municipality in the district of 
24-170678۰ 


Commissioners 


of the Badurian Municipality in the district of 24-Parganas have made the 
following by-laws under section 245(a) and (b) of the Bengal Municipal 


Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV of 


1982), 


nnd have applied to the State 


Government for confirmation of the said by-laws under section 506 of the 


said act; 


And whereas— 


(a) notice of the intention to apply for such Confirmation of the said 


by-laws has been duly 


iven one month before the making of 


the application for confirmation as required by clause (i) of sub- 
section (2) of section 506 of the said Act, aad 


(9) for one month hefore the application a copy of the said by-laws 
has been kept at the office of the Commissioners of the said 
Municipality and has heen open during office hours thereat to 


the inspection of the 


» inhabitants of the 
without fee, as required by clause (7) of sub-section 
section 606 of the said Act; 


سد ৪৪10‏ 
و )2 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by section 506 of the 


Bengal Municipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 1982), 


the (Governor is 


pleased to confirm the following by-laws: ‘ 


MODEL BY-LAWS RECARDING PROHIBITION AND RECULATION 
OF TRAFFIC 


Definition 


1, In these by-laws ‘cattle’? means cattle as defined in section 8 of 
the Cattle Trespass Act, 1871 (I of 1871). € ৪৪৫10 


3036 THE 04170101014 GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr I 


SOL CAE Ce ar ARE لے‎ 


Penalties 


2. Hines.—The penalty for the infringement of any of these by-laws 
shall be— 

(6) a fine not exceeding the sum stated at the foot of the by-law, 

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction for ھ‎ similar 
offence a fine not exceeding the sum (if any) stated in that 
behalf at the foot of the by-law, and 

(c) in the case of a continuing offence, further fine, not exceeding the 
sum (if any) stated at the foot of the by-laws as the daily fine, 
which daily fine may be imposed for each day ufter written 
notice of the offence from the Commissioners, 


Regulation of Traffic on Public Streets 


_ 3. Youthful drwers.—No owner of any carriage or curt shall allow 
it to be driven on any public street by a driver under fourteen yeats of age. 
Fine, Rs. 10 


4. Driving more than one carriage or cart.—No driver shall drive or 
have in his charge on any public street more than one earriage or 
cart except in the case of two carts, the hinder one of which is severely 


fastened to the proceeding cart. 
Fine, Rs. 10 


§. Standing vehicles.—No persons shall keep standing on any public 
street any vehicle, in such a manner as to cause inconvenience to the 
public, for any time longer than may reasonably be required for loading 
or unloading or for taking up or setting down passengers. 

Fine Rs. 10; on a second or subsequent conviction, Rs, 50. 


6. Charge “i carriage or cart.—-No person shall leave any carriuge or 
cart on any public street without a person in charge thereof. 
Fine, Rs. 10; on a second or subsequent conviction, Ra. 50 


1. Rule of the road.—Any person driving a carriage or cart, or mding 
a bicycle, or driving or riding an animal, or carrying a palanquin on any 
public street, shall we to his left when he passes a vehicle coming from 
the opposite direction or when any vehicle overtakes him, and shall keep 


to his right when overtaking any vehicle. 
Fine, Rs. 10 


8. Lights.—No person shall drive any of the undermentioned vehicles 
or animals, or convey any palanquin, on any public street, between balf- 
an-hour after sunset and half-an-hour before sunrise, unless lights are 
provided as follows :— 

(a) every carriage must carry two conspicuous lights, one on each side; 

(b) every cart must carry one conspicuous light; 

(c) every elephant, camel or palanquin must be accompanied by one 
conspicuous light; 

(d) every cycle must carry one conspicuous light in front. 


Fine, Rs. 0 


9. Signals on motors and cycles.—No person shall drive any motor 
car or ride any motor cycle or any tricycle or bicycle on any public street 
unless it has attached to it a bell. horn or other suitable signal لت‎ good 


order. 
Fine, Rs. (0 


10. Maximum load for carts.—No cart shall, without the general or 
special permission of the Commissioners, carry on any public street a 198৫ 
in excess of twenty maunds. 

Fine, Rs. 10 


11. Vehecles laden with girders, etc.—No person shal] drive upon a 
public street any vehicle laden with iron girders, rails, beama, bullas, 
bamboos, planks or other materials of a similar character which exceed 
twelve feet in length, unless the vehicle be accompanied by another person 
and be loaded in auch a way that no portion of the 8016] materials touches 
the ground. 
Fine, Rea. 10 

12. Vehicles laden with bricks, stones, ete.—No person shall drive 
upon a public street any vehicle laden with bricks, stones ۴٣ other 
materials of a similar character, unless such materials be so secured that 
they cannot fall on to the street. 


Fine, 0 


13. Animal laden with bamboos or tamber.—-No peraon shall convey on 


any publie street bamboos or timber placed on the back of any animal om 
such a way that any portion of such hamboos or timber touches the ground. 


Fine, Re. 10. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


পা ও A ETN a A, উপবাস -পাস ৯ পাটএ-০- ০.» ہہ رہ‎ আসক 
مب‎ সাকা কা ৩০৫০৩০০০৯৩৩ পপ 


14711011770 elephants or camels along public street.-No person shall, 
without the general or special permission of the Commissioners, take any 
elephant or camel along any public strect. 


Kine, Rs. 10 


15. aking an elephant aver a bridge.—No person shall allow any 
elephant in his charge to go over any bridge on any public street unless 
the bridge be constructed of arched masonry, steel or ferrow-concrete or 
similar durable materials. 


Fine, Ra. 0 


16. Loaded pack-animals.—No person shall drive upon a_ public 
street, at the same time, more than two loaded pack-animals. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


17. Fvals,—No person riding or driving a mare on any public street 
shall allow a foal to accompany the mare unless it is secured. 


Fine, Rs, 10 


18, Driving cart in centre of a public street.—No person shall drive a 
cart on the centre of any public street on which cart-tracks are provided. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


19, Sitting or sleeping.—No person shall sit or sleep on any public 
street so as to obstruct traffic. 
Fine, Rs, 10 


7 


Regulation of Traffic on Footpaths. 
20. Driving or riding on footpath.—No person shall wilfully drive or 
ride any vehicle or cattle on any foot-path set apart for the use of fvot- 
passengers, 


Fine, Ks. 10 


Prevention of Obstructions, Encroachments or Excavations on or near 
Public Streets, Chats or Ferries 


21. Abandoning or letting loose cattle.—No person shall abandon or let 
loose or negligently allow to get loose, any cattle, on any public street. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


22. Children playing or wanderiny.—No parent or guardian of جرب‎ 
child below the age of seven years shall allow such child to play or wander 
ubout on any public street so as to obstruct traffic. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


23. Depositing articles.—No person shall, without the general or 
special permission of the Commissioners, deposit اہ‎ articles on any public 
street, except for a temporary purpose, or use public street as a place for 
keeping any vehicle or cattle, or for washing any article or for any other 
private purpose; 

Provided that, during the months of April, ‘ea and June, between 
the hours of للا‎ p.m. and 5 a.m., khatiag may be laid on the side of a 
public street in such a manuer as not to cause obstruction or dunger to 
persons using the public street. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


24, Planting trees.—No person shall plant a tree on any public street 
without the general or special permission of the Commisaioners. 
0 Fine, Rea. 10 
2h. Eroaration and enclosures.—No person shall, without the general 
or apecial permission of the Commissioners, make any excavation on any 
public street or on or near any ghat or public ferry or enclose any such 
street or any port thereof. 


Fine, Ia. 10; daily fine Rs. 2 


26. Removing turf or cutting grass.—No peraon shall, without the 
general or special permission of the Commissioners, remove turf or cut 
grasa from any public street or the slopes thereof. 


Fine, Ra, 10 
07. Discharge of water. No person shall affix or cause to he ৮06৭ 
to any building ewned or occupied by him any gutter, spout or other thing 
intended for the conveyance and discharge of water, or shall leave in any 


8037 


8038 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


ce |‏ شس نے سے شس on‏ چو و ہو ں یز کے রগ be rade আল‏ 


পপি ای‎ পা পি নপক সি ےد‎ 


such building any opening for the discharge of water, in auch a way that 
the water discharged therefrom is thrown or falls upon = a ود‎ street 
except through a down pipe or other suitable contrivance reaching ٠ب‎ the 
level of the public street. 


Fine, Rs, 10; daily fine Re. 2 


28. LBreaking-in herses.—No person shall break-in horses on any public 
street not set apart for that purpose. 


Fine, Rs. 10; on a second or subsequent conviction, Rs. 50. 


29, Flying kites. —No person shall fly a kite on any public street or 
in such a way that it may fall on any public street. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


30. Playing games.—No person shall play any game on any public 
street. 
Kine, Re. 10 


31. Throwing stones or missiles.—No person shall throw or discharge 
any stone or missile on or near public street. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


32. Driving across a drain.—No person shall drive an vehicle across 
« public drain in or near any public street so as to cause damage to such 


drain, 
Fine, Rs. 10 


33. barbed wire.—No owner ہہ‎ oecupier of land -abutting on any public 
street shall fence such land with barbed wire. 


- Fine, Rts. 10; daily fine Re. 2 


34. Dust-bins.—No person shall— 


(a) place any burning material in any municipal dust-bin دہ‎ or 
near a public street, or 


(6) burn in any such dust-bin any paper, leaves, grass, wood or other 
material, 


Fine, Rs. 10 


39. Closed public street.—No person shall take or drive any motor 
vehicle, carriage or cart on public street or part of a street which is closed 
by order of the Commissioners to all or any specified description of 
wheeled traffic or displace any barrier or fence or notice erected for the 
purpose of closing such public street or part thereof. 


Fine, Rs. 10 


Regulation of the use or occupation of public streets or places for sale 
of articles, etc., and provision for the levy of fees for such use or 
occupation. 

36. HKaposing articles for sale.—Without the general or special permis- 
sion of the Commissioners which may, if they so direct, be subject to the 
payment of fees according to a scale prescribed by them at a meeting, no 
person shall use or occupy any public street or any other public place, for 


the sale of any article or for the exercise of any calling or for setting up 
any booth or atall. 


Fine, Rs. 10; on a second or subsequent conviCtion, Rs. 50. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDHAN, Jt. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 


Public Health 


ORDER 
o. P.H./2813/2A-32/65.—381st July 1956.—The Governor is pleased hereby 


to appoint the Health Officers specified in column 1 of the Schedule ‘‘A’’ annoxed 
herewith to be the Health Officers for the purposes of the Prevention of Food 
Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954), and the rulos made thereunder and to define 
the local areas specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said 
Schedule to be the local aress over which such Health Officers shall oxeroise their 


reapective jurisdiction. 


{Parr J} 


Part T] 


1১ েউ। ৯৮৪০ শী وو دو‎ ০০ 


wwe 4 ke 
জপ কি শপ পতি ےہ مو‎ পা বব পপ সিনা و نچ‎ 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATOUST 9, 1956 3039 


পারত ১ 


The Governor is also pleased hereby to appoint the officers specified in column 1 
of the Schedule “B3’? annexed herewith as Health Officers for the purposes of the 
said Act and the rules made thereunder and to define the local areas specified in 
the corresponding ontries in column 2 of the said Schedule “B"’ to be the local areas 
over which such Health Officors shall exercise their respective jurisdiction. 


SCHEDULE A 


Designation of the officer. 
1 


Local areas, 
2 


}. The District Health Officer of a (6) The area included within the local limits 


district: board. 


of jurisdiction of the respective distriot 
board. 


(it) The area comprised in the municipalities 


within the same district which have no 
health officers in their omploy. 


2. Tho Health 06800 of a muni- The area comprised in the municipality 


cipality. 


concerned. 


3. The Health Officer, Corporation The area described in Schedule I to the 


of Calcutta. 


Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951, as deemed 
to have been amended under section 694 
of that Act. 


4. The District Health Officer, ($) The area comprised in the district of 


Cooch Behar. 


Cooch Behar excluding the Cooch Behar 
municipality. 


(41) The area comprised in the Cooch Behar 


municipality. 


5. Tho Health Officer, Barrackpore The aroa comprised in the Barrackpore 


Cantonment, 


Cantonment 


6. The District Health Officer, The area comprised in Chandernagore as 


Hooghly district board. 


defined in the Chandernagore Municipal 
Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act XVIII of 
1955). 


SCHEDULE B 
1. The Chief Sanitary Officer, The area comprised in the Asansol Mining 


Asansol Mines Board of 


Health. 


Settlement excluding the Asansol and 
Ranigan) municipalities. 


2. Senior Executive Medical Officer, The area comprised in the Lebong Canton- 


Lebong Cantonment. 


ment, 


3. Medical Officer-in-charge of Non- The area comprised in the Jalapahar Canton- 


Dieted Hospital, Jalapahar, = ment, 
Jalapahar Cantonment. 
NOTIFICATION leave for forty-two days with effect from 1 


Murshidabad.—-No. P.H./2580/31-21 /56.—11th 
July 1956.—The Governor was pleased to grant 
Dr. Manindra Bhusan Das Gupta, M.B., D.P.LL, 
Subdivisional Health Officer, Jangipur, earned 


OFFICE OF THE WEST BENGAL NURSING 
COUNCIL 


Mitra Building, 8, Lyons Range, Calcutta, the 
Yth August 1956. 


Notice 


It is hereby notified for general information 
that on the expiry of the term of the office of the 
existing members, other than Mx-officio members 
of the Council under clause (m) of section 4 of 
the Bengal Nurses Act, 1934 (West Bengal 

mendment Act, 1949), a tresh election under 
this clause for (i) one registered nurse to be elect- 
ed by the electorate of registered nurses, (ii) one 
legiaterad midwile to be ভি by the electorate 
Of registered midwives, and (ji!) one registered 
lealth visitor te be elected by the clecturate of 

i registered health visitors will now be held 
according to the following programme, — Persons 


May 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West 
Service Hules, Part I, 
By order of the Governor, 
N. C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


whose names are borne in the final electoral roll 
ure requested to participate in the election سے‎ 
last date tor receiving nomination papera by 
the Returning Otticer in her office—3 p.m., 
lth August 1956. 
(orms of nomination papers may be had from 
the Returning Officer on written request.) 
Scrutiny of nomination papers—3 p.m., 17th 
August نا95[‎ 
1480 date for despatch of voting papers by 
registered post-—~trd September 6۰ 
Last date for recaiving voting papers by the 
Returning Officer in her office—4 p.m., 
[8th September 1956. 
Counting of votes by the Returning Officer in 
her office—12 noon, 26th September 1956. 


7۳. ANTHONY, Registrar 
(Returning Officer). 


3040 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


পারব ক শা‏ شش 


DEPARTMENT OF WORKS AND BUILDINGS 
Establishment 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 49.—30th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint the persons named below as 
temporary Assistant Engineers, under the Depart- 
ment of Works and Buildings, with effect from 
the dates on which they join the appointment, and 
until further orders :— 
(1) Shri Gourdas Giri, son of Shri Saranan 
Girl. 
(2) Shri Debiprasad Ghosh, sou of late Santosh 
Kumar Ghosh. 
(8) Shri Somendra Kishore Chakravarti, son of 
Shri D. .کا‎ Chakravarti. 


2. Until further orders, they are posted to the 
Development (Roads) Department us on temporary 
deputation. 


By order .of the Governor, 
B. K. SINHA, Jt. Secy. 


IRRIGATION AND WATERWAYS 
DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 84.—Ist August 1956.—The (rovernor is 
pleased to sanction until further orders, the shifting 
of the headquarters (i) of the’ temporary Hasnabad 
Subdivision under the Kast Sunderbans Division 
from Basirhat to Hasnabad in the district of 
24-Parganas, (i1) of the temporary Canning 
Subdivision under the East Sunderbans Division 
from Sonarpore to Canning in the district of 
24-Parganas, and (215) of the temporary Joynagar 
Subdivision under the West Sunderbans Division 
from Sonarpore to Canning in the district of 
24-Purganas, with effect from the actual dates of 
their shifting. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, Secy. 


No. 83.—26th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to extend the period of appointment of 
Shri Jyotsna Kumar Roy, C.E., M.I.S.E., 
A.M.I.E., as a temporary Executive Engineer, in 
the Department of Irrigation and Waterways on 
contract for a further period from the 22nd June 
1956 to the 7th March 1968. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. K. ADHIKARI, Dy. Secy. 


DIRECTORATE OF IRRIGATION 
AND WATERWAYS 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 660.1.h.—10th July 1956.—Shri S. P. 
Brahma, temporary Assistant Engineer, S.D.0., 
Urban Drainage Subdivision No. II of the Urban. 
Dramage Division, was transferred in the interest 
of the public service and posted to hold charge 
of the Urban Drainage Subdivision No. 1V of 
the ssid Division with effect from 16th May 1956 
until. further orders, vice Shri S. N. Bhatta- 
charjee, temporary Assistant Engineer, S.D.O., 
Urban Drainage Subdivision No. 1۷, granted 
leave. 


2. This cancels this office notification No. 27- 
C.L.E., dated: 27th March 1956, in so far as ا1‎ 
relates to the transfer and posting of Shri S. P. 
Rrahma, temporary Assistant Engineer. 


{Parr I 


৬ تس‎ 


আনহা‏ ہی وب CREE ভাত‏ افو ےمم পি‏ بد 


No. 080 1.4,.—l0th July 1956—Shri 3. N. 
Bhattacharjee, temporary Assistant Mngineer, 
§.D.0., Urban Drainage Subdivision No. 1, was 
granted earned leave tor thirty days with effect 
fron 16th May 1956 under rule 10801) ot the 
West Benyal Service Rules, Part I. 


I, B. DE, Chief Mngineer, 


COTTAGE AND SMALL-SCALE 
INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT 
RESOLUTIONS 

No. 2194Cot. /1L-27/56.—llth July 1956.— 
Read an application, dated the 3rd August 1954, 
trom Shri Druba Mohan Sarkar of Baraset, P.O, 
Talpukur, 24-Parganas, asking for پر‎ loan of 
1১, 10,000 (Rupees ten thousand only) under the 
Bengal State Aid to Industries Act, 1931 (Bengal 


Act 111 of 1981), for conversion of a Paddy ILusk- 
ing Mill into a small-scale Rice Mill: 


Read also the resulution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
17th April 1956, submitted with letter No. 2831, 
dated the 7th May 1956, from the Secretary, 
Board of Industries, West Bengal: 


Order 


Orprrep that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published in the Caléutta 
Crazette. 


No. 2195Cot.;11.-33/56.—llth July 1956.— 
Read an application, dated the 17th February 
1955, from Shri Gagan Chatterjee, 1১070719601) 


Hindusthan Iludustrial Syndicate of 2 Rash 
Behari Avenue, Calcutta, usking for a loan of 
108. 3,000 (Rupees three سا‎ only) under the 
Bengal State Aid to Industries Act, 1931 (Bengal 
Act [Tf of 1931), tor the purchase 01 raw materials 
and electrical accessories : 


Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
7th April 1956, submitted with letter No. 3966, 
dated the 218 May 1956, from the Secretary, 
Board of Industries, West Bengal : 


0706? 


Orverep that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published in the Calcutta 
(razette, 


No. 2196Cot. /1L-34/56.—11th July س1056‎ 
Read an application, dated the 2nd May 195۵, 
from Shri Purna Ch. Ghosh, Proprietor, Banadevi 
Timber Gola of Bishnupur, Bankura, asking for 
a loan of Rs. 2,500 (Rupees two thousand and five 
hundred only), under the Bengal State Aid to 
Industries Act, 1931 (Bengal Act ITT of 1981), ৪৪ 
working capital : 


Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
17th April 1956, submitted with letter No. 3968, 
dated the 219 May 1956, from the Secretary, 
Board of Industries, West Bengal. 


Order 


OrpFrep that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published in the Calcutta 
Gazette. ٠ 


No. 2197Cot./13.-32/56.—1]th July 1956.— 
Read an application, dated nil, from Bamangachi 
Engineering Works of Salkia, Howrah, asking for 
a loan of Rs. 30,000 (Rupees thirty thousand only) 
under the Bengal State Aid to Industries Act, 1931 
(Bengal Act IT] of 1981), for extension of 
mupufacturing business, ete. : 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3041 


৬ 


۲ 
Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
1th April 1956, submitted with letter 
No. 3967, dated the 21st May 1956, from the 
Secretary, Board of Industries, West Bengal : 


Order 


Orverep that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published in the Culcutta 
Gazette. 


By order of the Governor, 
A MITRA, Secy. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 
RESOLUTION No. 3267Dis./D/5B-1/56. 


Calcutta, the 27th July 1956. 


In pursuance of rule 3 of the Housing Allot- 
ment Rules of the Government of India, Sub- 
sidised Housing Scheme for Industrial Workers, 
the Governor is pleased to constitute the Manag- 
ing Committee, which will be responsible for 
allotment of tenements built ‘by Messrs. Sen- 
Raleigh Industries of India, Ltd., of Asansol 
under the said scheme as follows سس‎ 


(i) Shri S. R. Chukravorty, Inspector of 
Tactories, West Bengul—Chairman. 


(ii) Three representatives nominated by the 
employer—Mem bers. 


(iii) Three representatives of the workers 
duly elected by ballot conducted by 
Government— Members. 


2. The mowers and functions of the Com- 
mittee will ۶ strictly according to the Govern- 
ment of India Subsidised Housing Allotment 
Rules. 


Order 


(01701) that the above Resolution be pub- 
lished in the Calcutta Gazette, and copies thereof 
be forwarded to the Chairman of the Committee 
and Messrs. Sen-Raleigh Industries of India, 
litd.. Kanyapur, Asansol, for information of the 
members. 


OrpEren alao that a copy of the Resolution be 
forwarded to other departments of this Govern- 
ment and the Directorates of Labour, Housing 
and Factories, 


By order of the Governor, 


1). 9. 1১, MURWERIKE, Jt. Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 8279Dis./N/38A-9/56..-28th July 1956.— 
Shri Himanshu Kumar Biswas, Assistant Labour 
Commissioner, West Bengal (officiating), is 
reverted to his substantive post of Labour Officer. 


No. 3648Lab./G/2W-36/55.—20th July 1966. 
In exercise of the power conferred bv section 6, 
read with section 9, of the Minimum Wages Act, 
1948 (XT of 1948), the Governor is pleased to 
make the following amendment طز‎ notifieation 
No. °4191 Lab. /G/2W-30/54, dated the 27th 
September 1954, appointing an Advisory Com- 
mittee to enquire into the conditions prevailing 
In employment in public motor tranapert in 
Weat Bengal and to advise the State Govern- 
ment in making revision of the minimum rates 


of wages fixed for such employment under the 
১1] Act, namely سس‎ 


Amendment 


In the said notification under the heading 
‘‘Members representing the employers’ for the 
entry “5. Shr I. M. Bakshi, I.A.S, (Retired), 
of the Home (Transport) Department, Covern- 
meut 01 West Bengal”, substitute the follow- 
ing :— 

“oO. Shri KR. Ghosh, 1.4.8., Director of 
Operation, Directorate of Transportation, 
West Bengal, of the Home (Transport) 
Department, Government of West Kengal’’. 


No. 8331Dis./D/1A-6/55.—lst August 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that the public 
interest requires that the Inland Water ‘Transport 
Industry in West Bengal, being an industry in 
transport for the carriage of passengers or goods 
by water, should be declared to be & public 
utility service; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 
2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 
194%), the Governor is pleased hereby to declare 
the Inland Water Transport Industry in West 
Bengal to be a public utility service for the pur- 
poses of the said Act for a period of six months 
with effect from the 20th August 1956. 

By order of the Governor, 


1). S. .ظط‎ MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ওসামা 


No, 326010٥. /1(/ 0۸-7 طا26--.56/‎ July 1956.— 
The Governor ig pleased to confirm Shrimati 
Indira De, Assistant Labour Commissioner (Con- 
ciliation), in her post with effect from the Ist 


May 1936. 
N. 0. MAITRA, Dy. Secy. 


a] 


শ্রম 1۱ 
LABOUR DIRECTORATE 


কারখানা সামাতি। 
Works Committee 


শ্রজাপনাবলশ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 


সংখ্যা ৩২।২1৫৬ডবলিউদস।--৬ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ ۶ 
বঙ্গীয় শিজ্পবিরোধ সংক্রান্ত 'নিয়মাবলশর ২এ নিয়মের (১২) উপানয়ম 
অন্যায় দাঁজশালং জিলায় ania রাংলয়ট one আঁফসের অক্তর্গত 
তিস্তা ভ্যালী ot এস্টেটের নবগঠিত কারখানা সামাতির সদস্যদের না 
সাধারণের অবগ্গাতর জন্য অন্র প্রকাঁশত হইল کے‎ 


শ্রামকমণ্ডলশী খনর্বাচিত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। 8۹6 1۱ 

۱ 83۲۴0۹ ۱ج 

ol শ্লীলাটচে ۴۱ 

৪1 শ্রীমতী কইল spat 

৫। Bert বাহাদুর সোরাজি। 

৬। ا8‎ fees 8۱ 

৭। শ্রীমতী আগমফুল তামাঙ্গনী। 

৮। শ্রীত্রীমান ا‎ 

>t 83:70 ۹۱ 

sot শ্রীনরেল্্র )۱ 
কমশনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্যঙগের .۱ 

১। মিঃ for, পাইক। 

21 Far এইচ, জে, ফ্রেজার। 

ot শ্রীসোণাম সং গমডেন। 

st শ্লীবাবাসং তামাথগ | 


3042 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


১ উওর 


[Parr 1 


No. 382/2/56W.C.—6th July 1956.—In از‎ 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 


members constituting the Works Committee in The 


Teesta Valley Tea Estate, Rungli Runghot P.O., 
Darjeeling, are hereby published for yeneral 
information :— 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 
(1) Shri Jitay Tamang. 
2) Shri Juntary Mangar. 
(9) Shri Latehay Tamang. 
(4) Shrimati با ہک‎ Gurungeni. 
(6) Shri Jasbahadur ১0781). 
(6), Shrimati Bishnumaya Raini. 
রঃ Shrimati Agamful Tamangeni. 
Shri Sreeman Kami. 
40) Shri Bakhatman Mangar. 
(10) Shri Narendra Gurung. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Mr. P. Pyke. 

(2) Mr. H. J. Fraser. 

(2) Shri Sonam Singh Gomden, 
(4) Shri Babusing Tamang. 


খ্যা ৬৫।২৫৬)৫২1৫৬ডবালিউ,স।--৬ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।--শ্রম 
আধকারের ৩০শে ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫২ তারখের ৬৫।২।৫২ডবাঁলউ,স, 
সংখ্যক প্রজ্ঞাপনের আংাশক সংপরিবর্তনে ২৯শে FARA ১৯৫৩ তারিখের 
কালকাতা বোষপত্রের প্রথম WG] ২৭০ KB ও 62 WEA ১৯৫৩ এবং 
২৮শে AT ১৯৫৫ তারিখের উত্ত ঘোষপন্রের ষথাক্তমে vol অক্টোবর 
১৯৫৩ তাবিখের ৬৫।২০১)৫২।৫৩ডবালউ,স, সংখ্যার ও এই ۷ی‎ 
১১৫৫ তাবিধের ৬৫1২৫৫)৫২)৫৫ডবলিউ,স, সংখ্যায় প্রকাশিত মেসার্স 
ডেল্টা জুট মিলস কোঃ, লিঃ, পোন্ট আফন meta, হাওড়া এর কারখানা 
সমাতিব কমণনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত oy 2 এম দত্ত মজুমদার, মিঃ 
জে, রস এবং ٢ জে, এম, জনম্টন এর নাম বিলোপ করা হইল। তৎস্থলে 
ts কারখানার কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদসা শ্রী আর, মৃখার্জ, fas 
fy, fa, ےج ہ٭‎ এবং far এ, এফ, সাউটার এর নাম সাধারণের অবগ্ণাতর জন্য 
CH প্রকাশিত হইল। রঃ 


No. 65/2(6)52/56W.C.—6th July 1956.—In‏ ٭ 
Yartial modification of the Labour Directorate‏ 
@otification No. 65/2/52W.C., dated 380th‏ 
December 1952, published at page 270, Part I of‏ 
the Calcutta Gazette, dated 29th January 1953, and‏ 
novifieation No. 65'2(1)52/55W.C., dated 10th‏ 
October 1958 and No, 65/2(5)52/55W.C., dated 7th‏ 
April 19455, published in the said Gazette on 5th‏ 
November 1958 and 28th April 1955, respectively,‏ 
the names of §hri M. Datta Mazumdar,‏ 
Mr. J. Ross and Mr. J. M. Johnston, members‏ 
nominated by the employers as their representatives‏ 
to the Works Committee in Messrs. Delta Juty‏ 
Mills Co., Ltd., P.O. Sankrail, are hereby cancelled‏ 
and in their places names of Shri R. Mukherjee,‏ 
Mr. D G. Smart and Mr. A. F. Soutar, are pub-‏ 
hshed for general information as members‏ 
nominated by the employers to the said Committee.‏ 


সংখ্যা ১৬1৩৫৫)৫৫1৫৬ডবালউ,স।--১০ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬।- শ্রম 
আঅধিকাপ্রর ৩১শে জানয়ারী ১৯৫৫ তাঁরাখের ১৬1৩।৫৫ডবাঁলউ,স, 
সংখাক প্রজ্ঞাপনের আংশিক সংপারবর্তনে om মার্চ ১৯১৫৫ তারখের 
কলিকাতা ঘোষপন্লের প্রথম খণ্ডের ৮৭৩ TMH ও ১৬ই জুন ১৯৫৫ 
তারিখের Cy ঘোষপত্রের যথাক্রমে ২০শে মে ১৯৫৫ তারখের ১৬।৩৫১)। 
৫৫ভবলিউ,সি, সংখ্যায় প্রকাশিত মেসার্ঁপ ডানলপ রবার কোঃ 
(ইন্ডিয়া). লিঃ, পোম্ট অফিস সাহাগঞ্জ, হুগলশ এর কারখানা 
সাম্মীতির কর্মীনয়োগকতর মনোনীত সদস্য মিঃ ভি, ফারগৃসন এর নাম 
বিলোপ করা হইল। ہب‎ te কারখানার কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত 
সদসা fas সি, এস, মেখিউজ এর গাম সাধারণের অবর্গাতির জন্য ۴ 
ہل‎ হুইল ۱ 

by 

No. 16/3(5)/55/56W.C.—1Mh July 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Tahour Directorate 
notification No. 16/3/65W.C,, dated 31st January 
1954, published at pace 873, Part I of the Caleutta 
Gazctte, dated 3rd March 1055, and notification 


No. 143013 (55W.C., dated 20th May 1955, pub- 
lished in the said Gazette on 16th June 1955, the 


name of Mr. D. Ferguson, member, nominated by 
the employers as their representative to the Works 
Committee in Messrs. Dunlop Rubber Co. (India), 
Ltd., P.O. Sahagunj, is hereby cancelled and in 
his place name of Mr. 6. S. Mathews is published 
for general information as member nominated by 
the employers to the said Committee. 


খ্যা ৮।২6৬)৫৩1।৫৬ডরালিউ,স।--১৯০ই জাই ১৯৫৩1--প্রম 

আঁধকারের ২৭শে জানয়ারী ১৯৫৩ তারখের ۱< ۱٢۲۷۷۹ 
সংখ্যক প্রজ্ঞাপনের আধাঁশক সংপাঁরবতন ak ফেব্রুয়ারী ১৯৫৩ 7 
কাঁলকাতা ঘোষপরের প্রথম খণ্ডের ৩৬১ MVM ও ২৪শে ফেব্রুয়ারখ 
১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের Ge ঘোষপত্ের لہ‎ ফেব্রুয়ারী ১৯৫৫ "٣ 
৮1।২৫৫)৫৩।৫ডবালউ,স, সংখ্যায় প্রকাঁশত মেসার্স বালী জট :اج‎ 
লিঃ, বালী, হাওড়া, এর কারখানা সামীতর কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত, 
সদসা মিঃ এম, লজ এর নাম Facey করা হইল। তংস্থলে Se কারখানার 
কর্মনিষোগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য মিঃ ডবলিউ, বালফৌর এর নাম 
সাধারণের অবগাতর জন্য VT প্রকাশিত হইল। 


No. 8/2(6)53/56W.C.—l0th July 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No, 8/2/538W.C.. dated 27th January 
1953, published at page 361, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 5th February 19538, and notification 
No. 8/2(5)538/55W.C., dated 4th February 1955, 
published in the said Gazette on 24th February 
1955, the name of Mr. M. Gillies, member, 
nominated by the employers as their representative 
to the Works Committee in Messrs. Bally Jute Co., 
Ltd., Bally, Howrah, is hereby cancelled and in 
his place name of Mr. W. Balfour is published for 
general information as member nominated by the 
employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা ২।২৫৮)৫৩1৫৬ডবালউীস।--১০ই জুলাই space t—wa 
আধকারের ৯ই জানুয়ারী ১৯৫৩ তারিখের ২।২।৫৩ডবাঁলিউ)স, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞপনের আংশিক সংপারবর্তনে ২৯শে জানুয়ারী ১৯৫৩ তারিখের 
কাঁলকাতা ঘোষপত্রের প্রথম খশ্ডের ২৭১ MBA ও ۹۶د‎ ফেব্রুয়ারী ১৯৫৫ 
তাঁরখের Se ঘোষপত়ের ১২ই জানয়ার়শী ১৯৫৫ তারিখের ২।২(৪)৫৩। 
৫ $ডবলিউ,স, acim প্রকাশিত মেস a ইন্ডিয়া জুট কোঃ, লিঃ, শ্রীরামপুর, 
হুগলশ এর কারখানা সামাতর কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদস্য মিঃ 
আর্থার, ল এর নাম বলোপ করা হইল। তৎস্থল্লে Sy কারখানার কর্ম- 
নিয়োগকর্তার মনোনশত সদসা মিঃ জে, এ, ই, মিলন এর নাম সাধারণের 
অবগতির জন্য অত প্রকাশিত হইল। 


No, 2/2(8)53/56W.C.—10th July 1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Tirectorate 
notification No. 2/2/53W.C., dated 9th January 
1943, published at page 271, Part T of the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 29th January 1953, and notification 
No. 2/2(4)58/55W.C., dated 12th January 1955, 
published in the said Gazett> on 17th February 
1955, the name of Mr. Arthur Law, member, 
nominated by the employers as their representative 
to the Works Committee in Mesars. India Jute Co., 
Ltd., Serampore, Hooghly, is hereby cancelled and 
in his place name of Mr. J. A. FE. Milan is pub- 
lished for general information as member nomi- 
nated hy the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা ২৮।২।৫৬ডবালউ,স।--8ঠা WNT ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
বঙ্গীয় িজ্পাবরোধ সংক্রাষ্ত 'নয়মাবলশর ২এ নিয়মের (১২) উপনিয়ম 
অনৃযায়শ ২৪-পরণানা 'জিলায় বজবজে অব্থত মেসার্স Gao ভ্যাকুয়াম 
way কোম্পানী, চিন্রগঞ্জ টারমিনাল এর নবগঠিত কারখানা ۶ 
সদসাদের নাম সাধারণের অবগতির জনা ےہ‎ প্রকাশিত হইল ےو‎ 


কর্মানয়োগকতার মনোনীত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১1 শ্লীসেখ >۱ 


২। শ্রীকুসলচল্দ্র হালদার । 
৩। শ্লীকার্তকলাল মহাতো। 


কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার WAALS সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। মিঃ এস, এইচ, 61۱ 
২। মিঃ জি, জেমস। 
৩। & টি, tH, am 


part I] 


৮8১১৫) CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3043 


SNE ee ০:৯৪: সস সা 
পিউ উবে او ...لے‎ উল টক সপ ৯৯০৯০০৯৯০০৯ 
* 


No. 28/2/56W.C.—4th July 1956.—In_ pur- 
guunce of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 
members constituting the Works Committee in 
Messrs. Standard Vacuum Oil Company, Chitra- 
011) Terminal, Budge Budge, 24-lParganas, are 
hereby published for general information ;— 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 


(1) Shri Sk. Kamiruddin., 
(2) Shri Kushal Chandra Haldar, 
(3) Shri Kartic Lall Mahato. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Mr. S. H. Edwards. 
2) Mr. G. James. 
(3) Mr. T. C. Roy. 


সংখা CON MYSNAG, A I—GF জুলাই ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
genta শিল্পাবরোধ mare নিয়মাবলশীর ہج‎ নিয়মের (১২) উপাঁনয়ম 
অন্যারশ দার্জীলং 'জিলায় ঘুম পোষ্ট আঁফসের অন্তর্গত তাকদা টা 
এ'্টটের নবগাঁঠিত কারখানা সামাতির সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের অবগাঁতর 
জন্য تہ‎ প্রকাঁশত হইল £- 


প্রামকমণ্ডলশখ নির্বাচিত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১ ۱ھ‎ ۱ 
বস রায়া। 

৩। শ্রীমতী রকমফুল ۱ 
gi 30011 দেওয়ান। 

١‏ 232۳۰ ۱م 

ئ١‎ শ্রীমতী খুসে 7 8۱ 

qi Haan fora! 

wi ۹ا8‎ ۱ 


করমনয়োগকর্তার WATS সদসাদের নাম। 


৯। সরদার বলজশৎ সং শুকরচাঁকয়া। 
২। শ্রী আর, To, লামা। 

৩। Sey দেওয়ান। 

8١ প্রীভদ্রীসং ۱ہ‎ 

٠ 2:571۴ রায়। 

&। শ্রীনয়বাহাদুর )۱ 

۹۱ প্রীজগত্বাহাণংর ۱ 

٢ 83) 1۱ 


No. 30/2/56W.C.—5th July 1956.—In_ pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 
members constituting the Works Committee in the 
Tukdah Tea Estate, P.O. Ghum, Darjeeling, are 
hereby published for general information :— 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 


(1) Shri Filla Chetri. 

(2) Shri Balbahadur Rai. 

(3) Shrimati Rakamful Gurungni. 
(4) Shri Ramsingh Dewan. 

(6) Shri Ambaray Chetri. 

(6) Shrimati Khusay Raini. 

(7) Shri Kalu Limboo. 

(8) Shri Gamboo Rai. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Sardar Baljit Singh Sukarchakia. 
(2) Shri R. 1), Lama. 

(3) Shri Bhaktu Dewan. 

4) Shri Bhadra Singh Gurung. 

2) Shri Bhowajit Rai. 

(6) Shri Narbahadur Chetri. 

(1). Shri Jagathahadur Rai. 

(8) Shri Budhiman Lama. 


MAT ২৯।২।৫৬ডবালউস।--৫ই ٭٭٭‎ ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
বসায় শিক্পাঁবরোধ সংক্রান্ত নিয়মাবলশর '২এ নিয়মের (১২) উপানিয়ম 
ন্যায় দাঁজশলং জিলায় রাংলি afer one আঁফিসের অক্তর্গত 


রাধাল রাংলিয়ট টশ এম্টেটের নবগঠিত কারখানা সামাতির সদসাদের নাম 
সাধারণের অবগাতর জনা wy প্রকাশত হইল s— 


শ্রামকমণ্ডলশ নর্বাচিত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। শ্রীজাসবাদূর cent 

২। শ্রীমানবাদুর ۹۱ 

٠ 277 ফুলমায়া তামাঞ্গনশ। 
8۱ 2۲۶۲7 11۱ 

۱ 231877118 ۱ 

৬। Area তামাঞ্গ। 

৭। শ্রীসংখারে 5۱ 

৮। শ্রীমতী কৈলি 55۱ 

৯। শ্লীরাম্বা লামা। 

Sot শ্রীমানলাল প্রধান। 


কর্মীনযোগকর্তার মংনানশত সদসাদের নাম। 


১। মিঃ জে, এইচ, রশীচি। 
২। শ্রী আর, fa, রায়। 
Ol শ্রীজঙ্গাবীর তামাঞ্গ। 
8 শ্লীলোকটে 1 
aq! শ্রীখরকে 5۱ 
ات‎ শ্লীধনে ভূজেল। 

৭। শ্লীহরকে cant 

৮। শ্ীগোরে তামাঞ্গ। 


No. 29/2/56W.C.—dth July 1956.—In  pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial isputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 
members constituting the Works Committee in the 
Rungli Ruugliot Ten Estate, P.O.  Rungli 
Rungliot, Darjeeling, are hereby published for 
general information ٤سس‎ 

Names of the members elected by the workmen 


7 Shri Jasbadur Chetri. 

2) Shri Manbadur Chetri. 

(3) Shrimati Fulmaya Tamangni, 
(4) Shri Gomay Tamang. 

(5) Shri Jovbadur Tamang. 

(6) Shri Chengba Tamang. 

(7) Shri Sangkharay Sannasi. 

(8) Shrimati Kaily Raini. 

(9) Shri Rumba Lama. 

(10) Shri Manlal Pradhan. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Mr. J. H. Ritchie. 

(2) Shri R. B. Rat. 

(3) Shri Jungbir Tamang. 
(4) Shri Toktay ۰ 
2 Shri Kharkay ۰. 
6) Shri Dhanay Bhujel. 
(7) Shri Harkay Chetri. 
(8) Shri Goray Tamang. 


সংখা ৩১।২।৫৬ডবালিউস।--৫ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬1১৯১৯৪৭ সালের 
বঙ্গশয় শিল্পাঁববোধ mers নিয়মাবলীর ২এ িয়মের (১২) উপানয়ম 
اق یںعت‎ ২৪-পরগনা জিলায় বেলঘাঁড়য়াতে অবাস্ধিত মেসার্স cet 
পোর সলেন কোং 'লীমটেড এর নবগঠিত কারখানা সামাতির সদসাদের নাম 
সাধারণের অবগাঁতর জনা wa প্রকাশিত হইল s— 


শ্রামকমন্ডলশ 'নর্বাচিত সদসাদের নাম। 


১। শ্ীকাশখপাতি ۱ء‎ 
২। 5311,01 গাঁতাইত। 
৩। জ্রীধাদূমাঁন 1۱ج‎ 
gt 8:100 ۱ 
at শ্রীহারিপদ ۱ 
কমশনয়োগকতার ম ۹ সদসাদের নাম। 
st শ্রী এস দেব। 
دج‎ শ্রী এ বন্দোপাধায়। 
ot শ্রীজে ۱ 
si 3 fa চটেপাধ্যাল। 
ol গ্রী পিকে দাস। 


3044 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


Parr J 


কফ ১১০০৯ 
ঠা OO OLN HT 
স্‌ 


No. 381/2/56W.C.—5th July 1956.—In_ pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of The 
members constituting the Works Committee in 
Messrs, Bengal Porcelain Co., Ltd., Belghoria, 
24-Parganas, are hereby published for general 
information :— 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 


(1) Shri Kashipati Ganguly. 
(2) Shri Basudeb Gantait. 
(8) Shri Jadumony Bhutya. 
(4) Shri Narayan Halder. 
رق‎ Shri Haripada Datta. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Shri S. Dev. 

(2) Shri A. Banerjee. 
(3) Shri J. Dutta. 

(4) Shri (3. Chatterjee. 
(5) Shri P. K. Das. 


সংখ্যা ৫২।২৬)৫৩।৫৬ডবলিউ,স।-৬ই জুলাই sage lay আধি- 
কারের sue জুলাই ১৯৫৩ তারখের &২।২1৫৩ডবালউ,স, সংখ্যক 
প্রজ্ঞাপনের sins সংপাঁরবর্তনে oF MTT ১১৫৩ তাঁরখের কাঁলকাতা 
ঘোষপত্রের প্রথম খণ্ডের ২৫০৪ WWM ও .ود‎ ডিসেম্বর ৯৯৫৩ তাঁরখের 
উত্ত ঘোষপত্রের ২৩শে ASAT ১৯৫৩ তাঁরখের ৫২।২(২)৫৩ডবাঁলউ,স, 
সংখ্যায় প্রকাশিত মেসার্স রামনগর কেইন এন্ড সুগার কোং, শলঃ, পোষ্ট 
আঁফস পলাশশ, নদশয়া এর কারখানা সাঁমাতর কম্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত 
সদস্য মিঃ লাভিঙ্কএর নাম বিলোপ করা হইল এবং Tea উত্ত 
কারখানার কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনখত সদঙ্য শ্রী এম এন Woy নাম 
সাধারণেল অবশাঁতর জনা অন্ন প্রকাশিত হইল। 


No. 52/2(6)63/56W.C.—6th July —1956.—In 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
fhtification No. 62/2/53W.C., dated 18th July 
1953, published at page 2504, Part I of the 
‘Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th August 1953, and 
fiotification No. 52/2(2)/53W.C., dated 60 
November 1953, published in the sajd (Ciazette on 
1711) December 1953, the name of Mr. H. Lovink, 
member, nominated by the employers مع‎ their 
Yepresentative to the Works Committee in 
Mesers. Ramnuggar Cane & Sugar Co., Ltd., P.O. 
Plassey, Nadia, is hereby cancelled and in his 
place name of Sbri M. N. Borooah is published for 
general informatian as member nominated by the 
employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ্যা ৯১৫১)৫৫1৫৬ডবালউস।--৯০ই GAR sacelt—ay আঁধ- 
কারেব ১৭ই Brea ১৯৫৫ তারখের ২১ডবলিউ,স, সংখ্যক প্রজ্ঞাপনের 
আংশক সংপারিবর্তনে ১৫ই ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫৫ তাঁরখের কলিকাতা 7 
প্রথম WGA ৫০২৩ AH প্রকাঁশত মেসার্স বানারহাট OY এঞ্টেট, 
ہی‎ অফস শানারহাট, تج و‎ এর কারখানা গামাতির কর্মীনয়োগ- 
FSH মনোনগত সদস্য মিঃ আর ডবালিউ, ম্যাকডোনাজ্ড এর নাম বিলোপ 
করা হইল। نپ‎ Ca কারখানার কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনীত সদসা 
শ্রী এ এন, SIT এর নাম সাধারণের Banter জন্য অন্ত প্রকাশিত হইল। 


No. 21(1)55/56W.C.—10th July 1950-8 
partial modification of the Labour Directorate 
notification No. 215 C., dated 17th October 1956, 
published at page 5024, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 15th December 1955, the name of 
Mr. R. W. McDonald, member, nominated by the 
employers as their representative to the Works 
Committee in Messrs. Banerhat Tea Estate, P.O. 
Banerhat, Jalpaiguri, is hereby cancelled and in 
his place name of Shri A. N. Varma is published 
for general information os member nominated by 
the employers to the said Committee. 


সংখ” ২৪1২1৫৬ডবালিউ,স।--২৬শে HA ১৯৫১।--:১৯৪৭ সালের 
বঙ্গীয় بے"‎ সংক্রান্ত Faroe 20 নিয়মের (১২) উপনিয়ম 
জনয" پک‎ 'জলায় ود‎ পোষ্ট আঁফসের অন্তর্গত جب‎ টী 


QO নবগঠিত কারখানা Aiwa সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের Bante, 
জন্য Uy প্রকাশিত হইল £- 


শ্রমিকমণ্ডলশ নির্বাচত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। শ্রীঅম্বর বাহাদুর মণ্গর। 
২। Set Sa তামাষ্গনশ। 
ol Sea বাহাদুর ۱ 


৪1 5379٣٣ cent, 
&। শ্রীহরমবাহাদুূর ۱ 
৬। শ্রীইন্দ্রবাহাদূর গুরুং। 


۹۱ ۲ڈ‎ এম কেরায়। 
কর্মীনয়োগকর্তার মনোনশত সদস্যদের নাম। 


>t শ্রী কে এস খান্দেলওয়াল। 
২। শ্রী আর কে দশীক্ষত। 
৩। শ্রী এস আর সারাওগশ। 
৪1 শ্রীকে Ta লামা। 

Gt শ্রী জ এল ۱ 

৬। শ্রীআঁদলে রায়। 

৭। শ্রীগজলাল তামাঞ্গ। 


No. 24/2/56W.C.—26th June 1956.—In_ pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 
members constituting the Works Committee in The 
Topchu Tea Estate, P.O. Lopchu, Darjeeling, are 
hereby published for general information : — 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 


(1) Shri Ambarbahadur Mangar. 
(2) Shrimati Shrimava Tamangni. 
(8) Shri Chandra Bahadur Chetri. 
(4) Shri Balbahadur Chetri. 

(5) Shri Harmabahadur Mahat. 
(6) Shri Indrabahadur Gurung. 
(7) Shri M. K. Roy. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Shri K. 8. Khandelwal. 
(2) Shri .کا ا[‎ Dixit. 

(9) Shri S. R. Saraogi. 

(4) Shri RK. B. Lama. 

(6) Shri G. L. ۰ 

(6) Shri Adiley Ra. 

(7) Shri Gajalal Tamang. 


ংখযা ২৫।২1৫৬ডবালউ,সি।২৭শে জুন ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
বঙ্গশয় শিষ্পতবরোধ mars fara ২এ নিয়মে (৯২) উপনিয়ম 
অনুযায়ী afer tere জিলায় িম-লবাড়ী পোম্ট আঁফসের অন্তর্গত সিম 
বাড়শ oF এন্টেটের নবগঠিত কারখ'না ود ]جرد‎ সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের 
অবগতির জন্য অন্ন প্রকাশিত হইল £-- 


শ্রিমকমণ্ডলখ নির্বাচিত waded নাম। 


১। শ্রীলোহারো 11۱ 
২। শ্রীকাণ্চন বারাইক। 
৩। শ্ীকমল মহাতো। 

Si শ্রীলামরু নাশাসিয়া। 
৫ | শ্লীদাহার্‌ ١ 


৬। শ্রীমতশ জেঠী লেওয়ারনণী। 
at Bret ferme নাগাসিয়া। 


SATACINPS TA মনোনশত সদস্যদের নাম। 


১। 3 আর cere 
21 শ্রী আর, লান্দোপাধায়। 


৩। শ্রী fa fa ঘোষ। 
৪1 শ্রী বি আর চক্তবর্তী। 
۱ء‎ শ্রী এস কে চৌধুরশ। 
&। Mt ج‎ সি চরুবতশি। 
رو‎ Bre ۱ہ‎ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3046 


No. নেতা C.—27th June 1950.—In pur- 


suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes ules, 1947, the names of the 
members constituting the Works Committee in The 
Simulbari Tea Estate, P.O. Simulbari, Darjeeling, 
are bereby published for general information :—~ 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 
(1) Shri Toharao Nagasia. 
(2) Shri Kanchan Baraik. 
3) Shri Kamal Mohato. 
7 Shri Lamro Nagasia. 
(6) Shri Daharoo Munda, 
(6) Shrimati Jethi Newarni. 
(7) Shrimati Khilpat Nagasia. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 
(1) Shri R. Ghosh. 
(2) Shri R. Banerjee. 
(3) Shai 13, B. Ghosh. 
i Shri B. R. Chakraborty. 
(5) Shri 8. K. Chowdhury. 
(6) Shri K. ©. Chakraborty. 
(7) Shri Kancha Chetri. 


AT ২৬।২।6৫৬ডবালউ,স1--২৭শে জুন ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 
বায় শিল্পাবয়োধ ware নিয়মাবলশর 20 নিয়মের (১২) উপানয়ম 
অন্যায়শ wife ter fee টাং পোষ্ট আঁফসের অন্তর্গত দালারাম ۹ 
এক্টেটের নবগঠিত কারখানা সাঁমিতির সদস্যদের নাম সাধারণের অবর্গতির 
জনা Be প্রকাশিত হইল سح‎ 


্রামিকমণ্ডলশ 'নির্ণাচিত সদসাদের নাম। 


১। শ্রীজ্গবীর রায়। 

২। 23۹ বিফুমায়া ভূজেলনী। 
ot Sew wat! 

৪। শ্রীমতী কালি 7۱ج‎ 
۱ء‎ শ্রীরণবাহাদুর TAS 

৬। শ্রীপেদ্ধা তামাং। 

৭। 3۹ রেন মায়া Teena 
৮। শ্রীমনবাহাদুর রায়। 

৯। BY কে বি cents 

sot শ্রীরপধোজ ١ 


কর্মানয়োগকর্তার মনোনশত সদসদের নাম। 


১। প্রীকে Te 1۱ 
২। শ্রী জে, এল, রায়। 
৩1 ا8‎ ۹ Ta ۱ 
8۱ শ্রীপোলডেন ۱ 
G1 7 ۱ 
১। শ্রীকাঁজ ۱ 
৭। Serene ভুজেল। 
/। শ্রীশৃকয়াজ রায়। 
a! শ্রীজতমন রায়। 
১০। শ্লীহেরকাধন ۶۲ ۱ 


No. 26/2/56W.C.—27th June 1956.—In pur- 
suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 
membera constituting the Works Committee in the 
Dilaram Tea Estate, P.O. Tung. Darjeeling, are 
ereby published for general information :— 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 


(1) Shri Jangbir Rai. 0۲ 
(2) Shrimati 13:100 ۵٤ Bhujelni, 
(9) Shri Kaloo Gurung. 

(4) Shrimati Kali Bhujelni, 

(4) Shri Ranbahadur Gurung, 

(6) Shri Pemba Tamang. 
(1) Shrimati Renmaya 17007199000, 
(8) Shri Manbahadur Rai. 

(9) Shri K. B. Chetri. 

(10) Shri Randhoje Chetri, 


Names of the members nonunated by the employers 


(1) Shri K. B. Gurung. 

(2) Shri J. ۱۶ Rai, 

5 Shri 1). 13. Thapa. 

(4) Shri Polden Lama. 

(9) Shri Kumarsing Tamang. 
(6) Shri Kajee Tamang. 

(7) Shri Lahatay Bhujel. 

(8) Shri Sukraj Rai. 

(9) Shri Jitman Rai, 

(10) Shri Herkadhan TLimboo. 


সংখ্যা ২২।৩।৫৬ডবালিউ,স।--২৯শে জুন ১৯৫৬।--১৯৪৭ সালের 


বঙ্গীয় শল্পাঁবরোধ সংক্কাপ্ত নিয়মাবলশর 20 নিয়মের (১২) উপানিয়ম 
SAA ২৪-পরগনা fees হাঁজিনগর পোম্ট আফসের অন্তর্গত মেসার্স 
হুকুমচাঁদ জুট চিপস ئ٢‎ এর নবগঠিত কারখানা সামাতর সদস্যদের নাম 
সাধারণর অবগাঁতর জন্য ت‎ প্রকাশিত হইল s— 


শ্রামকমণ্ডলখ নির্বাচিত সদসাদের ۱ 


১। ্রীব্রীজনাথ। 

২। শ্রীপরমানন্দ ঝা। 
ot শ্রীরাম 1۱ 
8 1۱ 
&। শ্রীরমজান +1۱ 
৬। শ্লীটোনলন। 

৭। 2878۲ কৈবশী। 
wi শ্রীকালিচরপ নাথ। 
৯। শ্রীবাবন। 


১। মিঃ জে বি ম্যাকওয়ালটার। 
২। মিং জে এম আরনট। 

৩। মিঃ জে Gales com! 

81 8١ এস ঘোষ। 

&। শ্রী এস সরকার। 

৬। শ্রী ভি কে আগরওয়াল। 

৭। শ্রী এস +۱ 

vi اڈ‎ ce ۶۲ ١ 

৯। BY ce for 1۱ 


আর, এন, ۴۱ 
শ্রম-নহাধাক্ষ । 
No. 22/8/56W.C,—29th June 1956.—In  pur- 


suance of sub-rule (12) of rule 2A of the Bengal 
Tudustrial Disputes Rules, 1947, the names of the 


members constituting the Works Committee in 
Measars. 
Hazinagar, 24-Parganas, are hereby published for 
general information :— 


Hukumchand Jute Mills, ...اا1‎ P.O. 


Names of the members elected by the workmen 


(1) Shri Brijnath, 

(2) Shri Paramanand Jha. 
(8) Shri Ram Subhog. 

(4) Shri Giridhart. 

(5) Shri Ramjan Mia. 

(6) Shri Tonlan. : 
(7) Shri Jovshri Koiri. 

(8) Shri Kali Charan Nath, 
(9) Shri Babban. 


Names of the members nominated by the employers 


(1) Mr. J. B. MeWalter. 
(2) Mr. J. M. Arnot. 

(3) Mr. J. W. Stone. 

(4) Shri S. Ghosh. 

(6) Shri S. Sirear, 

(6) Shri V. KK. Agarwal. 
ie Shri নি, N. Singhania. 
8) Shn J. C. Dutt. 

(9) Shri K. P. Singh. 


R. N, BOSE, Lebour Commissioner. 


3046 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


০ ০৮৯ রতি না বস হি সি ELSE PERLE TELA TT IO 
Pane رہام‎ পপ জি টা পপ রা উপ টাক সস চি 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 
WORKING CLASS, NADIA-MURSHIDA- 
BAD AREA, FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL 
1956 


Year 1951 0 


Base: 


SAREE | cela ASTER কহ | সস 


Food 

Fuol and Lighting 90 91 
Clothing .. 75 75 
Miscellaneous 91 91 
House Rent 100 100 
General Index 79 84 


The Consumer Price Index Number has gone up 
by 5 points to 84 from 79 during the previous 
month. The increase is mainly due to rise in the 
prices of rice, arhar, chhola and biuli dal, mustard 
oil, chilli, fish, potato, brinjal, milk, firewood, 
saree, shirting, vest, coating, gamchha, soap, etc. 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 
WORKING CLASS, BIRBHUM AREA, 
FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL 1956 


Base: Year 1951=100 


toms 2 
Food 107 
Fuel and Lighting 92 
Clothing . 69 
Miscellaneous 103 
House Rent 100 
Genera! Index 103 


The Consumer Price Index Number has gone up 
by 7 points during April 1956 to 103 from 96 
during the previous month. The rise is due to rive 
in the prices of rice, utta, dals—arhar and kalai, 
sugar, mustard oil, chilli, potato, brinjal, onion, 
dhoti, shirting, vest, coating, drill, shoes, pan, 
hair oil, etc. 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 


WORKING CLASS8, MALDA-WEST 
DINAJPUR AREA, FOR THE MONTH OF 
APRIL 1956 


Base: . Year 1951=100 


April | March | April 


Ttems. Weights. i955 | 1956, | 1956. 

Food os -۰ 65.62 58 70 | 74 
Fuel and Lighting 10.53 124 87 87 
Clothing .. oe 7.10 710 78 74 
Mierellaneous + 14.24 83 78 78 
House Rent oe 2.51 100 100 300 
General Index 100 .00 70 4 17 


۲۳۸3 J 


ov 
উস BASE জী Per یی‎ LEE লতা TE TIES LOOTED NILES LSI $s ও বাস 


The Consumer Price Index Number has gone up 
by 8 points to 77 during April 1956 from 74 during 
the previous month. The increase is due mainly 
to rise in the prices of rice, atta, chhatoo, masur 
and chhola dal, gur, mustard oil, ghee, Chilli, 
potato, brinjal, saree, vest, coating, pan-supari, 
biri, soap, etc. 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 

" WORKING CLASS, BANKURA-MIDNA. 
PORE AREA, FOR THE MONTH OF 
APRIL 1956 


Year 1951=100 


Food 

Fuel and Lighting 111 
Clothing .. 66 
Miscellaneous 04 
House Rent 100 
General Index 97 


The Consumer Price Index Number has gone up 
during April 1956 by 8 points to 97 from 89 during 
the previous month. The rise is due mainly to 
increase in the prices of rice, atta, biuli dal, sugar. 
mustard oil, chilli, potato, egg, firewood, dhoti, 
saree, shirting, drill, frock, pan-supari, soap, etc. 


S. N. CHATTERJEE, 
Dy. Labour Commissioner. 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES 


Food and Supplies 


ORDER 


No. 7648F.8.—3lst July 1946.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (7) of sec- 
tion 3 of the West Bengal Cement Control Act, 
1948 (West Bengal Act XXVI of 1948), read with 
clause (h) of sub-section (2) of that section, the 
Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ment in the order No. 3947)).C.8., dated the 28th 
March 1949, as subsequently amended (hereinafter 
referred to as the said order), namely ;— 


Amondment 


In the said order in paragraph 4, after item (7), 
add the following item, namely :— 
“Gii) when permit tor cement is not و‎ by 
the Directorate of Consumer Goods from 
the general quota allotted to the State 0 
of West Benjal.”’ 


By order of the Crovernor, 
৭. K. GUITA, Jt. Secy- 


Part T] 


৮৫০ RMA pet পপ EALERTS AAT ie TATE TITLES نار قد ٠00اک خ۵‎ DP ACL ELA ASA ALE ELLE EL TESS LTE DLE LOL পা 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Revenue 


NOTIFICATION 


Maida.— No. 180201..R.—25th July 1956.—In 
partinl modification of the orders contained in 
this department notification No. 175641..R., dated 
the 12th September 1955, the Governor is pleased 
to cancel the extraordinary leave from the 18th 
May 1955 to the 30th June 1955 under rule 
174(1)(a) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part 
T, granted to Shri Nut Behari Chatterjee, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector (retired) and 
Headquarters Assistant Settlement Officer, Malda. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


24-Parganas-Calcutta.—No. 13032L.A.—2oth July 
1916.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
Mahendra Nath Chaudhury, retired Deputy Magis- 
trate and Deputy Collector, now employed as an 
Additional Land Acquisition Officer, 24-Parganas, 
to act, 0011] turther orders, as the Probate Deputy 
Collector, Caleutta, with effeet from the date he 
tukes over charge ice Shri Provat Kiran Mukher- 
jee, transferred. 


Calcutta-24-Parganas.—No. 130541,.A.—25th 
July 1956.—Whereas the functions of the Central 
Government under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), in ftelation to the acquisition of Jand 
for the purposes of the Union have been entrusted 
to the State Government by notification No. 11 
667 udl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by 
the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs under clause (L) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 


ferred by clause (c) of section 3 of the said Act,” 


read with the said notification, the Governor is 
ان‎ to appoint Shri Pravat Kiran Mukherjee, 
Jeputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector as 
present employed as Probate Deputy Colleetor, 
Calcutta, to be the Additional Land Acquisition 
Officer, 24-J-arganas, to perform in the district of 
24-Parganas except the area or areas thereof to 
which the Calcutta Improvement Act, 1911, has 
heen or may hereafter be extended by notification 
under section 1, sub-section (3) thereof, the func- 
tions of a Collector under the said Act, in relation 
۲ the acquisition of land for the purposes of the 
nion, 


Caicutta-24-Parganas.—No. 130357,..4.—25th 
July 1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred 
ry clause (م)‎ of section 3 of the Land Acquisition 
Act. 1894 (I of 1894), the Governor is pleased to 


appoint Shri Pravat Kiran Mukherjee, Deputy 
agistrate and Deputy Collector ai present 


employed as Probate Deputy Collector, Calcutta, 
ما‎ be the Additional Land Acquisition Oflicer, 
<4-Pargauas, to perform in the district of 24-Par- 
Fanaa except the area or areas thereof to which 
the Caleuita Tmprovement Act, 1911, bas been or 
may hereafter he extended hy notification under 
Rection |) sub-section (9) thereof, the functions of 
ہ‎ Collector under the said Act, in relation to the 
acquisition of lands for public purposes (except 
the purposes of the Union) and for Companies, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ۸10107 9, 1956 


4047 


Sante aN سپ‎ Bise- eaters a9 


Calcutta.24.Parganas.——No. 13036L.A.-—25th 
July 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by 
clause (a) of sub-section 2 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act IT of 1948), the Governor is 
pleased to specially appoint Sbri Pravat Kiran 
Mukherjee, Deputy Mugistrate and Deputy 
Collector at present employed as Probate Deputy 
Collect sr, হি, to be the Ad.litional Land 
Acquisition Officer, 24-Parganas, to perform the 
functions of a Collector under the said Act in the 
district of 24-Parganas except the area or areas 
thereof to which the Caleutta Improvement Act, 
1911, has been or may hereafter 2 extended by 
notification under section 1, sub-section (3) 
thereof. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. BANERJEE, 
Member, Board of Revenue and Secy. 
to the Govt. of West Bengal (er officir). 


Hooghly.—No. 12950L.A.—24th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 16 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the extension 
of Sahaganj Mirerhat Girls’ Junior High School 
and for providing playground in the village of 
Keota, jurisdiction list No. 7, thana Chinsurah, 
pargana Arsha, district Hooghly, it is hereby 
notified that a piece of land comprising cadasiral 
plot No. 1787 and part of cadastral plot No. 1786 
and measuring, more or Jess, 0.189 of an acre, 8 
likely to be needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
maw at the public expense and partly at the 
expense of the authorities of Sahaganj Muirerhat 
(+1115” Junior High School within the aforesaid 
village of Keota. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 


concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Hooghly. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time bing engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants ny workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Anv person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days atfer the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing ۵٥ 
the Collector of Hooghly. 


Howrah.—No. 129521.A.—24th July 1946.— 
The Governor is pleased to cancel the notification 
No. 71401..A., Ares the 8th September 1948, 
under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 
1894, published at page 1266, Part 1 vi the 
Calcutta Gazette of the 16th idem, in respect of the 
roposed acquisition of 0.077 of an acre of land 
or the Howrah Municipality for widening a 
portion of Sibpur Road from ita junction with 
G. T Road to Lokenath Chatterjee By-lane and 
opening out a road connecting Lokenath Chatterjee 
Thane and Tokenath Chatterjee By-Lane in the 
village of Sibpur, jurisdiction list No. 14, thana 
Sibpur, district Howrah. 


304% THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr I 
উপ সপ সস ree 


Murshidabad.—No. 129921,.A.—24th July 0۰ 
— Whereas it appeurs to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for 1 albagh Sub- 
Jail, in the village of Golapbag, jurisdigtion list 
No. 90, thana Murshidabad, purgana Asadnugar, 
district Murshidabad, it is hereby notified that a 
piece of land comprising cadasiral survey plot 
No. 61 and measuring, more or less, 0.96 of an 
acre, is likely to ba needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense in the aforesaid 
village of Golapbag; 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of Murshidabad. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locailty, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Murshidabad. 


24-Parganas.—No. = 15088L.A.—2dth-July 6۰ 
—Whereus it appears to the Governor that land in 
the district of 24-Parganag is likely to be needed 
for a public purpose, viz., for the development of 
Fraserganj into a seaside health resort دز‎ the 
mauzas of Amarabati and Lakshmipur Abid, juris- 
diction list Nos. 70 and 71, respectively, police- 
station Kakdwip, notice is hereby given to all whom 
it may concern that in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I 
of 1894, the Governor has authorised the Local 
Officers and the Engineers of the West Bengal 
Government for the time being engaged on this 
undertaking, to enter upon and survey. the land 
and do all other acts required for the proper exe- 
cution of their work as provided for or specified in 
the said section; 

The general route to be taken for the survey 
will be running through the mauzas Amarabati and 
Lakshmipur Abad, jurisdiction list No. 70 and 
Ti, respectively, tpolice-station Kakdwip. 


Howrah.—-No. 13128L.A.—26th July 1956.— 

*herens it appears to the (iovernor that land 1s 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for Indus- 
trial HLousing Scheme in the village of Barakpur, 
jurisdiction list No, 16, thana Bally, pargana 

oro, district Howrah, it is hereby notified that 
two pieces of land comprising cadastral plot 
Nos. 3457, 3458, 3459, 3460, 462, 3463, 2464, 
$465, 3466, 3467 and 3470, and measuring, more 
or less, 3.839 acres, are likely to be needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesaid village of Barakpur; 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 

plan of the land may be inspected‏ ھ۸ 
office of the Collector of Howrah.‏ 

In exercise of the powers conferred hy the 
aforesaid section the Governor is pleased to 
authorise the officers for time being engaged in 
the undertaking, with their servants and work- 
men, to enter upou and survey the land and do all 
other acts required or permitted by that section, 

Any erson interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
ie ٦ 48 2 this notification is given 
m the toeahty, file an objection in writi ' 
the Collector vi Howrah, ০০৮৮৮০০০০০৪ 


in the 


24-Parganas,—No. 14168].A.—26th July 1956. 
—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
48(1) of the Lund Acquisition Act, I of 1894, the 
Governor 1s pleased to withdraw from the acquisi- 
tion of 2.02 acres of land which was ধান tor 
acquisition under Declarution No. 199501..A., dated 
the 30th December 1954, published at page 99, 
Part 1 of the Calcutta Gazette 01 the 13th Janu- 
ary 1955 in behalf of Messrs. Snow White 11000 
Product Co., 1۸+١1, for the construction of a 
factory for the manufacture of vegetable products 
and staff quarters in the village of Atpur, juris- 
diction list No. 16, thana Jagaddal, pargana 
Saidpur, district 24-Parganas., 


Burdwan.—No. 135021.A.+-31st July 1956.—In 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 48(1) 
of the Land Acquisition Act, ] of 1894, the 
Governor is pleased to withdraw from the acquisi- 
tion of pieces of land comprising cadastral survey 
plots as detailed below, and measuring, more or 
less, 4.21 acres, out of the total area of 16.93 acres 
of land covered by declaration No. 18522L.A. 
dated the 7th December 1954, under section 6 of 
the Act, published at pages 3964-3965, Part I of 
the Calcutta Gazette of the 16th idem, in respect 
of the land required by the Damodar Valley 
Corporation for the excavation of G/2 from chain- 
age 255 to chainage 880, in connection with the 
Damodar Flood Control Project in the district of 


Burdwan: 
DISTRICT BURDWAN 
Thana Kalna : 
Village Nawapara, jurisdiction list No. 65 
Cadastral survey plots in part—l88 to 194, 196, 
243, 244 and 246. 


Village Uplati, jurisdiction list No. 64 
Cadastral survey plot in full—1084. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1032, 1038, 

1085 to 1088, 1048 to 1050, 1052, 1053, 
1055, 1172, 1185, 1189 to 1192, 1876 to 
1878, 1891, 1892, 1394 to 1396, 1398, 1409, 
1415, 1416, 1794, 1852, 1853 and 1968. 


Hooghly.— No. 13630L.A.—8lst July 1096. 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so much of the 
notification No, $1241,.A., dated 18th February 
1955, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
آ1‎ of 1894, published at page 193, Part ] of the 
Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, of the same date, 
as re.ates to a piece of land comprising cadastral 
survey plots as detailed below, and measuring, more 
or leas, 0.09 of an acre, out of 5.37 acres of land 
notified for acquisition for Distributary N/3 from 
chainage 352.50 to chainage 393.80, in connection 


with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 


district of Hooghly: 
DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Chanditala 

Village Krishnarampur, jurisdiction list No. 59 

Cadastral survey plot in part—1856. 

Village Manirampur, jurisdiction list No, 64 

Cadastral survey plot in part—4484. 

Hooghly.—No. 135321.A.—3lst_ July 1956.— 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 48(1) 
of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, the 
Governor 18 pleused to withdraw from the 
aenutsition of pieces of Jand comprising parts of 
cadastral survey Not Nos. 618 to 620 and 662 to 
666 of village Krishnarampur, jurisdiction list 
No. 49, police-station Chanditala, district Hooghly, 
and measuring, more or less, 0.50 of an acre, out 
of 5.28 veres of land covered by  decluration 
No  $1261.A., dated 18th February 1955, سام‎ 
lished at page 794, Part I of the Caleutta Gacette 
of the 24th idem, and required hy the Damodar 
Valley Corporation for Distributary NJ) from 
chainage 342.50 to chainage 393.80, In connection 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
district of Hooghly. 


ERRATA 


24.Parganas.—No. 126421,.A.—17th July 1956. 
—In notification No. 18626L.A., dated the 23rd 
Seplember 1955, published at pages 1653-1654, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, of 
20:1 September 1955 in respect of the ~roposed 
acquisition of land required for the reelamation 
of the Northern Salt Lake area, near Calcutta in 
the villages of Dhapa-Manpur and Krishnapur, 
jurisdiction list Nos, 1 and 17, respectively, 
thanas Bhangore and Rajarhat, respectively, 
pargana Calcutta, district 24-Parganas— 


Read the figures “758.23"’ for the figures 
“737,607 in line 21. 


24-Parganas.— No. 12966L.A.—24th July 1956. 
—In the notification No. 56441L.A., dated the 7th 
May 1951, published at page 1117, Part I of the 
Calcutta Clazette of the 17th idem, in respect of 
the acquisition of land for the extension of Dum 
Dum Airport, in the village of (touripur, juris- 
diction list No. 6, thana Dum Dum, pargana 
Calcutta, district 24-Parganas— 


Read the figure ‘‘532’’ for the figures and word 
4989 to 633’’ in line 20, 


Read ‘0.97 of an acre’ for ‘2.66 acres’? in‏ تب 
line 21.‏ 


Burdwan.— No, 13640L.A.—Ist August 1956.— 
In notification No. 188321,.A., dated 218৮ July 
1955, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition 
Act, I of 1894, published at page 1062, Part 1 
of the Calcutta Gazette, EKatraordinary, of the 
22nd idem, in respect of the acquisition of land 
required by the Damodar Valley Corporation for 
the excavation of Distributary 8 in the villages 
of Kalna and Ukrid, jurisdiction list Nos. 28 and 
40, respectively, thana Khandaghosh, district 
Burdwan— 


Read the figure “87.5” in place of the figure 
“87.05” in line 5. 


Murshidabad.—No. 13026L.A.(P.W.).—25th 
July 1956.—In notice’ No. 198641L..A.(P.W.), dated 
the 29th December 1954, under section 4(1) of 
the West Bengal Land (Requisition and 
যার Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act II of 
1948), published at page 27, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette, of the 6th January 1955, in 
respect of the acquisition of land for the purpose 
of providing facilities for transport and communi- 
cation, namely, for the construction of Berhampore- 
Bhagawangola Road, mile No. 12, in the village 
of Digha, jurisdiction list No. 26, police-station 
Bhugawangola, district Murshidabad— 


Read the figure 92127 after the figure ۷۳ 
in line 26, 


24-Parganas. — No, 130281,.A.(P.W.). — 25th 
July 1956.—In notice No. 10540L.A.(V.W,), dated 
the 10101) July 1954, under section 4(la) of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act II of 1948), pub- 
lished nt pages 2496-97, Part I of the Culcutta 
Gazette, of the 29th July 1964, in respect of the 
tequisition of land for the purpose of providing 
lactlities for irrigation and drainage, namely, for 
Sonarpur-Arapanch Trainage Scheme in the 
Village of Begampur, jurisdiction list No, 29, 
police-station Baruipur, district 24-Parganas, the 
ollowing changes will ocour— 


Read the figuree ‘5414-6420, 6422” for the 
figures 5414-6422” in line 41. 

Read the figures “6046, 6049-6052" for the 
figures '6046-6052"? in line 45. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3049 


সস ০৯ 


DECLARATIONS 


24-Parganas.—No. 12644144116) July 1956. 
—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the reclamation of the 
Northern Salt Lake area, near Caleutta in the 
villages of Dhwpa-Manpur and Krishnapur, juris- 
diction 1156 Nos, 1 and 17, respectively, thanas 
Bhangore and Rajarhat, respectively, pargana 
Caleutta, district 24177080778) it is hereby 
declared that pieces of land comprising cadastral 
plot Nos. 1-12, 112, 119, 120,128, 124, 299, 
234 and marts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 116, 
118, 129, 131, 182, 201-208 of village Dhapa- 


ہیں مس جس رہہ س شش شش شش شش شش ہش سی ہب 


Manpur, and cadastral survey plot Nos. 4007 
4009, 4014-4016, 4079, 4081-4083, 4391, 4092, 
4095-4098, 4100-4104, 4124-4151, 4158, 6249- 


6268, 6531, 6534, 6535 and 6589-6596 and yj arts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 4080, 4090, 4107, 
4108, 4152-4164, 4156, 4157, 6269-6274, 6278, 
6279, 6532, 6533, 6536-6538, 6601 and 6004 of 
village Krishnapur, and altogether measuring, 
more or less, 708.23 acres, are needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesaid villages of Dhapa-Mannur 
and Krishnapur. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


/ plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Alipore, 24-Parganas. 


Hooghly,—-No. 127841. A.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Government 
under the Tand Acquisition Act, 1894 (Act 1 of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purpose of the Union have heen entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No, 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated 1411) May 1954, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of the article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a pubile :purpose being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for conversion of Hind ٠٣ 
Halt to Flag Station in the village of Kotrang 
and Bhadrakali, jurisdiction list Nos. 8 and 9, 
respectively, thana Uttarpara, district Hooghly, it 
is hereby declared that a piece of land comprising 
cadastral plot No. 1137 and parts of cadastral 
plots Nos. 363, 448, 449, 450, 451, 506, &06, 
1135, 1186, 1141, 1142, 1148, 1144, 702, 8 
and 1139 of village Kotrang and parts of cadastral 
plot No. 442 of village Bhadrakah, altogether 
measuring, more or less, 6.28 acres, is needed for 
the aforesaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesaid villages of Kotrang and 
Bhadrakali. 


This declaration is made under the provisions of 
section 6 of the Jand Acquisition Act, 1894 
(Act I of 1894), read with the said notification to 
all whom it may concern. 


۸ plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector of Hooghly- 


Burdwan.—No,. 136201,.A.—Ist August 19956. 
—Whereas the Governor is satisied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. 213 
and 28A of Burdwan Belmuri section 132 ۰ 
Transmission J.ine in connection with the مز‎ 
motion and operation of scheme for generation, 
trunsmission and distribution of electric energy 
in the village of Baikunthapur, jurisdiction list 
No. 91, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby declared that pieces of lands comprising 
ipart oof cadastral survey plot Nos. 2210 and 
2297 and altogether measuring, more or less, 


3050 THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


| Paur ] 


সপ ০০৯ চাস ৯ 


১0573 of an acre, are needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 


Valley Corporation within the aforesaid village 


of Baihunthapur. 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any ‘particular portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerals as it may be necessary to dip or 
carry away or use in the construction of 076 
work for the purpose of which the land is being 


acquired are not needed. 


This declafation is made, under the provisions 
and section 3 


(ly, Act ৮111 of 1885, to all whom it 


Act I of 1894, 


of section 6 of 
clause 
may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected 17) the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 


Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


ERRATA 


24-Parganas.—-No. 12968]L,.A.—24th July 1956. 
—In the declaration No. 25401..A., dated the 16th 
February 1952, published at page 709, Part 1 of 
the Calcutta Gazette, of the 6th March 1942, in 
respect of the acquisition of land required for the 


extension of Dum Dum Airport in the village of 
Gouripur, jurisdiction list No. 6, thana Dum 
Dum, pargana Calcutta, district 24-Parganas— 


Head the figure ‘‘582” for the figures ang word 
“629 to 533” in line 20. : 

Read ‘0.97 of an acre’’ for ‘2.66 acres’? in 
line 21. 


Burdwan.—No. 13642]1..A.—lst August 1956.— 
Ir. decloration No. 138341.A., dated the 2181 
July 1955, under section 6 of Land Acquisition 
Act 1 of 1894, published at page 2897, Part T of 
the Caleutta Gazctte of the 28th idem in respect 
of the acquisition of land required tby the Damo- 
dar Valley Corporation for the 
distributary 8 in the villages of Kalna and Ukrid, 
jurisdiction list Nos. 28 and 40, thana Khanda- 
ghosh, district Burdwan— : 


Read the figure ‘‘87.5’’ in place of the figure 
“87,097? in line 5, 


By order of the Governor, 


۶۰ M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


نچحى٣صسشسبمس‎ 


Land Reforms 


ORDERS 


Bankura.—No, 121801..Ref.—12th July 1956. 
—Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Prosanna Kumar Basu of Beliatore, Bankura, 
under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery hy the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by him under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act in res- 
mect of all interests held by him as an intermediary 
in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section ed of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Chovernor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


24-Parganas.—No, 124421). Ref.—14th July 1996. 
—~ Whereas an application has heen made by Shri 
১. Korum Alley and others of 160 Lower Circular 
Road, Caleutte-14, under sub-section (1) of section 
9 of the West Bengal Kstates Acquisition Act, 
1953 (West Rengal Act I of 1954), for recovery 
by the State Government of all sums recoverable 
by them under the provisions of section 8 of the 


excavation 91 


said Act in respect of all interests held by them 
دہ‎ Matwallis of the Wakf Estate of 15190010158 
Begum in the district of 24-Patganas; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the tower con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application, 


No. 124441. Ref.—l4th July 1956.—Whereas an 
application has been made by Shri Nabakumar 
Sing Dudhoria, Shri Jayhumar Sing Dudhoria, 
Shri Bimal Kumar Sing Dudhoria and Shi 
Abhoy Kumar Sing Dudhoria, Azimganj, Murshi- 
dabad, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the 
State Government of all sums recoverable by 
them under the provisions of section 8 of thie 
said Act in respect of all interests held by them as 
intermediaries in the districts of Murshidabad, 
বা, Howrah, Hooghly, West Dinajpur and 

alda; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the’ power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application, 


Burdwan,—No. 12614L.Ref.—17th July 6۰ 
——Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Karuna Bhusan Mustafi and others of village and 
police-station Suri, Birbhum, under sub-section, 
(1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by them under the provisions of 
section 8 of the said Act in respect of all interests 
held by them as intermediaries in the disrict of 
Burdwan ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 12616]..Ref.—l7th July 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Madhabika Chowdhurani and Shrimati 
Niharika Chowdhurani, P.O. Aminpur, Amin- 
pur Cutchery, West Dinajpur, under sub-section 
(1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acqui- 
sition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), 
for recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by them under the provisions of 
section 8 of the said Act in respect of all interests 
held them as intermediaries in the district of 
West Dina}pur; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the mower con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to graut the aaid 
application. 


Burdwan.—No. 126661,.Ref.—18th July 1966. 
~~Whereas an application has been made by Shri 
Mrityunjoy Banerjee, Saidabad, Kathmapara, 
P.O. Khagra, district Murshidabad, under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Ratates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act ] of 
1954), for recovery by the State Government ‘of 
81] sums recoverable by him under the provisions 
of section, 8 of the said Act in reapect of all 
interests held by him as an intermediary in the 
district of Burdwan: 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the 9 
application. 


Part 1] 


Bankura.—No. 126681..Ref.—1]8th July 1956. 
—-Whereas un application hus been made by Shri 
Baushidhar Dubey of Salma, 7.0. Salma, = dis- 
trict Bankura, under sub-section (1) of section 9 
of the West Bengal [states Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by ihe 
State Government of all sums recoverable by him 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act 
in respect of all interests held by him os an 
intermediary in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Bankura.—No. 12670L.Ref.—18th July 1956. 


—Whereras an application has been made hy 
Shrimati Kamakshya Bala Basu of Baltatore, 
Bankura, under sub-section (1) of section 1) of 


the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Benyal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the 
State Government of all sums recoverable by her 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act 
in respect of all interests held by her as an inter- 
madiary in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 1) of jhe said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum,—No. 126721... Ref.—18th 
July 1956.—Whereas an application has heen 
made by Shri Franay Krishna Ghosh Maulie and 
others of Panchthupi, Murshidabad, under ۔الدھ‎ 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal 
Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act 
I of 1954), for recovery by the State Government 
of all sums recoverable by them under the وہر‎ 
visions of section 8 of the said Act in respect of 
all interests held by them as intermediaries in the 
districts of Murshidabad and Birbhum; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


24-Parganas.—-No, = 126741,.Ref.—18th = July 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Prafulla Bala Debi of Tittaghur, Chou- 
dhury Para, 24-Parganas, under sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by her under the provisions of section 
8 of the said Act in respect of all interests held 
y her us an intermediary in the district of the 
“4-Parga naa; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


اس 


Bankura.—No. 127841,..1161.--2011 July 1956.— 

hereas tn application has been made by 
Shri Pashupati Sen, Surmanagar, P.O. Ramesagar, 
Bankura, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (৬০৭ 
sengal Act آ‎ of 1944), for recovery by the Slate 
overnment of all sums recoverable by him under 

8 provisions of section ৪ of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by him 4s an inter- 
mediary in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
et, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 9, 1956 301 


Hooghly.—No. 12736L.Ref.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Achinta Kumur Singh Roy, Makalpur, 
Hooghly, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1964), রঃ recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by him under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by him as an inter- 
mediary in the district of Hooghly ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Bankura.—No. 12738L.Ref.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Krishna Gobinda Mahapatra, village Supur, 
P.O. Khatra, district Bankura, under  sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 
1954), for recovery by the State Government of all 
sums recoverable by him under the provisions of 
section 8 of the said Act, in respect of all interests 
held by him as an intermediary in the district of 
Bankura ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the aaid 
application. 


Malda.—No. 12740L.Ref.—20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by the 
Collector and Administrator, Sripat Shing Dugar 
College, Trust Fund, Malda, under sub-section (1). 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of sec- 
tion ۸ of the said Act, in respect of all interests 
held by him as an administrator of the said fund 
in the district of Malda; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Bankura.—No. 127421L..Ref.— 20th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has heen made by 
Shrimati Kiron Sasi Dasi of Beliatore, Bankura, 
under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by her under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by her as an inter- 
mediary in the district of Bankura; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
applheation. 


24-Parganas.-—No. 12752L. Ref. —20th July 1956. 
— Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Bibhuti Bhusan Roy and Shri Sudhansu 
Bhusan Roy of 43 Tansdowne Road, Calcutta-20, 
under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates err سو ود‎ Act, 1953 (Weat 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by them under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of ull interests held by them ag inter- 
mediaries in the district of 24-Parganas; 


Now, therefore, im exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


3052 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


ena 
জপ سے‎ ও নি سی‎ পর 


Midnapore.—No 12762]..Ref.—20th July 1956. 
~—-Whereas an application has been made by 
Choudhurani Basanta Kumari Mallick of Sivbazar, 
Midnapore town, under sub-section (1) of section 9 
of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the 
State Government of all sums recoverable by her 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by her as an inter- 
mediary iv the district of Midnapore ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Bankura.—No. 12764L.Ref.—2U0th July 1956.— 
Whereas an application has been made by 
Shrimati Gouri Bala Debya of Fulberia, Baliatore, 
Bankura, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by her under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act, in 
respect of all interests held by her as an inter- 
mediary in the district of Bankura; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased ما‎ grant the said 
application. 


Midnapore-Bankura.—No. 128401... Ref .—21st 
July 1956.—Whereas an application has been made 
by Shri Pasupati Pandey of village and post oflice 
Nepura, district Midnapore, under sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisi- 
tion Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of sec- 
tion 8 of the said Act, in respect of all interests 
held by him as an intermediary in the district of 
Bankura; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ierred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor jis pleased to grant the said 
application, : 
By order of the Governor, 

5. BANERJEE, Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 12816L.Ref.—2lst July 1956.—In exercise 
of the power conferred by sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 55 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 
Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act, I of 1954), the 
(yovernor is pleased to make the following amend- 
inent to the notification No. 13464L.Ref., dated 
the 15th July 1955, published at page 2898 of the 
Calcutta Gaeztte. Part I of the 28th July 1955, 
namely ;— 

Amendment. 


In the schedule to the said notification, for 
item 4 substitute the following item, namely :— 


“¢. West Dinajpur and Malda ‘District J udge, West Dinaj- 
pur-Malda”. 


No. 12818L.Ref.—2lst July 1956.—In exercise 
of the power conferred by sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 55 of the West Bengal Hetates Acquisition 
Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), the 
(tovernor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ment to the notification No. 185041.Ref., dated the 
cond September 1955, published at page 4118, 
Part I of the Caleutta Gazette, dated the 13th 
October 1955, namely سے‎ 

Amendment 


_ In the schedule to the said notification, for 
item 6 substitute the following item, namely: 
“@,. Jalpaiguri and Darjecling District J udge, Jal paiguri- 
Darjeeling”. 
By order of the Governor, 
8. BANERJEE, Secy. 


পর উপস্থাপন ae ক পাতা সপ 


[| Parr 1 


24-Parganas.—No. = 13094]..Ref.—25th July 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by 
clause (1) of section 2 of the West Bengal Alienu. 
tion of Land (Temporary جس‎ Act, 1954 
(West Bengal Act XXXVIT of 1954), the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to appoint Shri R. ا‎ Daas, 
Temporary Magistrate, Diamond Harbour, 24-Par- 
ganas, ito discharge the functions of a Collector 
under the said Act in the Diamond Harbour sub- 
division in the district of 24-Parganas. 


By order of the Governor, 
Yr. M. DATTA, Dy. ১০০৮, 


Land Development 


NOTIFICATIONS 


24-Parganas.—No. 12813]..Dev.—21st July 1986. 
— Whereas the State Government has empowered 
the Society of Farmers and Rural Industrialisis, 
a society duly registered under the Societies 
Registration Act, 1860 (Act XXI of 1860), and 
having its office at 24/2 Harrison Road, Caleutta-9, 
to execute at its own cost a development scheme 
in the villages of Ghola and Natagarh, jurisdiction 
list Nos. 14 and 15, respectively, police-station 
Khardah, district 24-Parganas, in respect of the 
lands situated in the aforesaid villages acquired by 
the State Government under the West Bengal Land 
Development and Planning Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1948), for the establishment 
of an agricultural colony and creation of better 
living conditions, it is hereby notified that a copy 
of the agreement entered into by the said society 
with the State Government in connection with the 
execution of the development scheme as well as 
the plan for disposal of land and prices fixed for 
allotment shall be kept open for the inspection of 
the public at all reasonable hours of the day at 
the office of the Society at 24/2 Harrison Road, 
Calcutta-9. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


سم سی شر 


24-Parganas.- No. 125941..Dev.—l7th এও) 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
viz., for the settlement of immigrants who have 
inigrated into the State of West Bengal on 
account of circumstances fheyond their control in 
the village of Bade Raypur, juriediction [st 
No. 34, police-station Tollygunge, district 24-Par- 
ganas, it is hereby notified that for the above 
murpose a piece of land comprising of cadastral! 
survey plots Nos. 99 to 101, 103 to 105, 107, 
108 and parts of cadastral survey plots Nos. Le, 
106, 111 and 121 and measuring, more or less, 
4.485 acres, is likely to be required within the 
aferesaid village of Bade Raypur. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XX! 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


In exercise of the power conferred by the afore- 
aaid section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, and 
the Refugee Rehabilitation Commissioner, Wes 
Bengal, for the time being engaged in the unde 
taking with their officers, servanta and workmen 
to enter upon and survey the land and do, all 
other acts required or permitted by that section. 


A plan of the Jand may be inapected in the 
office of the First Land Acquisition Collector, 


Calcutta, 


Part 1] 


হত 
ےےے۔ موم[‎ 


24-Parganas, — No. 12776L.Dev. — 20th Jul 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel so much 
of the notification No. 18168L.Dev., dated the 17th 
September 1955, under section 4 of the Weat 
Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at 
page 3849, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
the 29th September 1955, as relates to pieces of 
land comprising parts of cadastral survey plots 
Nos. 198 and 196 of village Bagjola, measuring, 
more or less, .0168 acre, in respect of acquisition 
of land for the settlement of immigrants, who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on account 
of circumstances beyond their control in the 
village of Bagjola, jurisdiction list No. 21, police- 
station Dum Dum, district 24-Parganas. 


24-Parganas._No. = 12780L.Dev.—20th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel 8০ 
much of the notification No. 186201,Dev., dated 
the 18th July 1955, under section 4 of the West 
Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 1948 
(Weat Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at 
page 3102-3103, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, 
dated the 1111) August 1955, as relates to piece of 
land comprising cadastral survey plot No. 86 of 
village اہ وس‎ and measuring, more or less, 
000 of an acre in respect of acquisition of land 
for the settlement of immigrants who have 
migrated into the State of West Bengal on 
account of circumstances beyond their contro] in 
the village of Kamdahari, jurisdiction list No. 49, 
police-station Tollygunge, district 24-Parganas. 


24-Parganas.— No. 12808L.Dev.—2lst July 1956. 
The Governor is pleased to cancel so much of 
the notification No. 18881..Dev., dated the 4th 
Februa 1955, under section 4 of the West 
Bengal Land Development and Planning Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at 
page 597, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated 
the 17th February 1955, as relates to cadastral 
survey plots Nos. 1534, 150, 151, 147, 148, 158, 
150, 146, 196) 136, 152, 155, 157 and 149 and 
part of cadastral survey plots Nos. 127 and 98 of 
mauza Ghola, jurisdiction list No. 14, police- 
dation Khardah, altogether measuring, more or 
less, 6.96 acres, in respect of acquisition of land 
in the villages of Ghola and Natagarh, jurisdiction 


list Nos. 14 and 16, respectively, police-station. 


Khardah, district 24-Parganas, for the establish- 
ment of an agricultural colony and creation of 
hetter living conditions. 


ERRATUM 


24-Parganas. —- No, 12774L.Dev, — 20th July 
1966.—In the line 13 of the notification 
No 18168L.Dev., dated the 17th September 1955, 
under section 4 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal 
Act XXT of 1948), pablished at page 3849, Part | 
of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 29th September 
1955, in respect of acquisition of land for the 
setilement of immigrants, who have migrated 
Into the State of West Bengal on account of 
circumstances beyond their control in the village 
ot Bagjola, jurisdiction list No. 21, police-station 

um Dum, district 24-Parganas— 


Read ‘'4,8686 acres” for ‘4.3805 acres’, 


DECLARATIONS ٠ 


24-Parganas, — No. 1277814.1)6৬. — 20th July 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is needed for a public purpose, namely, for 
the settlement of immigrants, who have migrated 
Into the Stute of West Bengal on account of 
Clreumstances beyond their control in the village 
of Bagjola, jurisdiction list No, 21, police-station 
um Dum, district 24-Parganas, it is hereby, 
declared that for the above purpose a piece of land 
Comprising cadastral survey plots Nos. 171 to 177, 
186 to 189, 197 to 201, 252 to 264 and part of 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


9068 
cadastral survey plot No. 196 and measuring, 
more or less, 4.3628 acres, is required within the 


aforesaid village of Bagjola; 


This declaration is made, under the provisiong 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


24-Parganas,—No. 12782L.Pev.—20th July 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is needed for a public purpose, namely, for the 
settlement of immigrants who have migrated into 
the State of West Bengal on account of circum- 
stances beyond their control in the villages of 
Kamdahari, jurisdiction list No. 49 and Rainaygar, 
jurisdiction fiat No. 47, police-station Tollygunge, 
district 24-Parganas, it is hereby declared that for 
the above ‘purpose pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plots Nos. 2 to 6, 8 to 12, 14 to 
16, 18, 22 to 40, 35, 89, 90, 99 to 108, 105, 108, 
109, 111, 118 to 115, 118, 124 to 128, ہ188‎ 288, 
~94, 301 and parts of cadastral survey plots 
Nos. 7, 18, 17, 88, 93, 95, 104, 110, 112, 116, 
117, 129 to 131, 295, 307, 401 to 403, 606, 1121 
of village Kamdahari and cadastral survey plots 
Nos. 71 and 72 of village Rainagar, and measur- 
ing more or less, 31.89 acres are required within 
the aforesaid villages of Kamdahari and Rainagar. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Land Develop- 
ment and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A mlan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, 2411 8۰. 


24-Parganas. — No. 12810L.Dev. — 2181 July 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is needed for a public purpose, viz., for the 
establishment of an agricultural colony and 
creation of better living conditions in the villages 
$ Ghola and নল jurisdiction hist Nos. 14 
and 15, respectively, police-station Khardah, dis- 
trict 24-Parganas, it 1s hereby declared that for 
the above purpose pieces of land comprising 
cadastral survey plots Nos. 109 to 119, 115 to 123 
126, 128, 129, 137 to 145 and parts of cadastral 
survey plots Nos. 127, 108, 114, 130 and 191 of 
village Ghola and cadastral survey plots Nos. 2031 
to 20338, 2098 to 2065 and 2082 and parts of 
cadastral survey plots Nos. 2056 and 2057 of 
village Natagarh and altogether measuring, more 
or less, 21.63 acres, is required within the afore- 
said villages of Ghola and Natagrh; 

This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1948), to all whom it may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, Alfpore, 
24-Parganas, as well as in that of the Society of 
Farmers and Rural [ndustrialists at 24/2 Harrison 
Road, Calcutta-9. 


By order of the Governor, 
۲ M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


Requisition 
NOTIFICATIONS 

24-Parganas.—No. 12650Reqn.--l7th July 1956. 
Whereas the premises specified in the schedule 
below were requisitioned under sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the West Bengal Premises Requisition 
and Control (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1947; 

And whereas no ugreement can be reached in 


respect of the amount of the monthly compensa- 
tion payable on account of such requisition of the 


' gaid premises; 


3054 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


pn tS 


Om ممیم سسمومھوسبھہجچ!سچیھیۓ‎ ted 
ওসি ہ سے‎ উস 


পপি 
আসার 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the ‘power ہنرو‎ 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11 
of the said Act, the Grovernor is pleased to appoint 
Shri N. 0. Chakravarti, Additional District ond 
Sessions Judye, 24-Parganas, as an arbitrator for 
the determination of the amount of such 
compensation. 

This cancels Government order No. 3920Reqn., 
dated the 28th February 1809, 


The Schedule. 


“Rani Kuthir” (Lakehmi-Park), Rani Homo Raj Lakshmi 
Netaji Subhas Road, Tolly- 01828. Rani Home Rajya 
gunge (main building, kit- Lakshm:, Doranda, Ranchi, 
chen and compound only), owner. 
24-Parganas. ٠ 


Calcutta.—-No. 12652Reqn.—17th July 1956.— 
Whereas the premises specified in the schedule 
below were requisitioned under sub-section (1)_of 
section 3 of the West Bengal Premises Requisition, 
and Control (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1947; 

And whereas no agreement can be reached in 
respect of the amount of the monthly compensation 
payable on account of such requisition of the said 
premises: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11 
of the said Act, the Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri ٣. (1. Chakravarti, Additional District and 
Sessions Judge, 24-Parganas, as an arbitrator for 
the determination of the amount of such 
compensation. 

This cancels Government order No, 5308Reqn., 


dated the 19th March 5۰ 
The Schedule. 


Premises No. 8A Jugal Kishore Shrimati Amiya Bela Kundu, 
Das Lane, Calcutta. 141A Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta, owner. 


By order of the Governor, 


R. M. SAMANTA, Asst. Secy’ 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Agriculture 


RESOLUTION No. 7760Agri. 


Dated Calcutta, the 16th July 1956. 


The Governor is pleased to constitute a Com- 
mittee, to be known as the West Bengal Spices 
and Cashewnut Committee, with the following 
members :— 


(1) The Director of Agriculture, West Bengal 
(et officio) —Chairman. 


(2) Shri Sanat Kumar Pattadar of village 
Puria, post office imgaon, district 
West Dinajpur—Producer (Chillies). 


(3) Shri Aswint Kumar Hardhan, C/o Kali 
Kumar Bardhan and_ Brother, 1 
Maharshi Debendra Road, Calcutta-7— 
Trader (Onion). 


(4) Shri Sk. Samir Ullah of village Ariya 
Fatepur, post office Khbalisahhanga, dis- 
trict Midnapore—Processor (Cashewnut). 


(5) Shri Makhan اد‎ Das, C/o Contai Agri- 
tultural and Industrial Co-operative 
Marketing Society, post office Contai, 
district Midnapore—Co-operative Move- 
tment (Cashewnnt), 


(6) Shri Pulin) Behari Maiti, M.L.A., 29A 
Kashi Dutta Street, Caleutta—Consuimer. 


| Parr 1 


(1) Shri Bisheswar Lall Kajuria of Messrs. 
Surajmull Muralidhar, 28 Amratala 
Street, Calcutta. 


(8) The Special Officer (Potatoes), West Bengal 
(er officio). 


2. The Special Officer (Potatees), West Bengal, 
will act as Seeretary to the Committee. 


3. The members will hold office for a period 
of 6 years or until further orders. 


4. (Government reserve the power to add to 
the number of members, if necessary. 


5. The Committee shall have the power to 
appoint Sub-Committees for dealing with special 
problems or special matters and to appoint to such 
Committees persons who may not be members of 
the Committee. 


6. The Chairman shall have powers of invitiu 
persons with expert knowledge or eave 
experience to attend meetings of the Comumnittee 
and participate in its deliberations, 


7. The functions of the Committee will be— 


(a) to advise Government on all matters relat- 
ing to research and development work on 
Spices and Cashewnuts, 

(9) to prepare research and development 
schemes far increasing the production of 
Spices and Cashewnuts, 


(c) to ensure that the funds provided for the 
execution of the schemes are properly 
utilised, 

(৫) to secure that the local resources are fully 
exploited for increasing the production, 
etc., of the Spices and Cashewnuts, and 


(৫) to ‘enlist the public co-operation to the 
fullest possible extent for the execution 
of schemes for research and development 


works on Spices and Cashewnuts. 
Order 


OrpERED that a copy of this Resolution be 
forwarded to all members of the Committee and 
the Indian Council of Agricultural Research for 
information. 


_ Oxperen also that the Resolution be published 
in the Calcutta Gazette for informatiion. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No, 7983Agri.—24th July :1956.—Shri A. نظ‎ 
Mitter, HK.Se. (Agri.) (Rgn.), Assoc., 1.)).0., 


B.Agri.Se., (N.Z.), was posted as Dairy Techuo- 
logist at the Central Livestock Research-cum- 
Breeding Station, Haringhata, with effect from 
15th January 1956 on the expiry of leave granted 
to him in notification No. 234Agri., dated 9th 
January 1956. 


No. 804) Agri.—24th July 1956.—The Governor 
in pleased to appoint Shri Asok Kumar Ray 
Chaudhuri, B. Ag., Dip. in Agii. Sc. (Cantab.). 
Agrouomist, Central Livestock Research-cum- 
Breeding Station, to the temporary post of 
Deputy Milk Commissioner, West Bengal, until 
further orders. Tle will also hold the post اق‎ 
Agronomist, Central Livestock গর 
Breeding Station, until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 


P.C. GOPE, Dy. Secy- 


3 রণ] 
۰۱۷ 
رت رنہ‎ 
7 


۰ 
00 ا 


71551 
یا 
00 0ک 6 ۵ 
٠‏ 47 110 


a 


ا 


او 


3086 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 {Part | 


جم تم مود 


ہے جمس۔۔د وس و سو یج شی سے شس خی یر ریس سی سس ہج ےش شی سی ۔۔ سس سوووسوسو یش سو ہی 
পপ উস্কে ৯‏ 


Boundaries. 


North—(#) Cudastra] survey plot Nos. 454, 453, 452, 446, 444, 443, 459, 462, 467, 468, 469, 486, 487, 481 
490, 508, 507, 506, 504, 375, 374, 511, 520, 523, 524, 545, 548, 549, 551, 554, 555, 556, 557, 565, 567, 
569, 570 and 564 of mauza Ashair, jurisdiction list No. 52; (৮) Mauza boundary of Lakshminarayanpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 56. 


South—-(¢) Mauza boundary of Chak Ramanath, jurisdiction list No. 94; (88) Cadastral survey plot Nos. 4460, 
432, 430, 135 to 137, 761, 134, 132, 108, 107, 105, 97, 96, 88, 83 to 85, 81, 21 to 28, 11, 12, 15, 16, 8, 
3, 4, 289, 290 and 291 of mauza Kashiadanga, jurisdiction list No. 67; (118) Kashiani Khal; (tv) Mauza 
boundary of Jiapur, jurisdiction list No. 69; (৮) Cadastral ‘survey plot No. 584 of mauza Ashair, 
jurisdiction list No. 52. 


Kast—(t) Cadastral survey plot Nos. 2,13 to 17, 559, 22, 25, 154, 155 to 158, 168, 569, 176, 175, 173, 
part of plot Nos. 229 and 377, 387, 383 to 385, 401, 446 to 447, 450 to 452, 468, 467, 498, 519, 499 وا‎ 
501, 504, 515, 616, 514 and part of plot No. 518 of mauza Barakashipur, jurisdiction list No. 53; (17) 
Cadastral survey plot Nos. 444, 443, 449 to 456, 458, 434, 575, 536, 538, 548, 546,572 and 543 to 645 
of mauza Pashim-Mustafapur, jurisdiotion list No. 97. 


West—(s) Cadastral survey plot Nos. 270, 269, 263, 267, 265, 234, 282, 255, 234, 253, 252, 251, 240, 248, 
247, 246, 245 and 244 of mauza Asair, jurisdiction list No. 52; (৮) Cadastral survey plot Nos. 170, 
18, 490, 491, 493, 494, 473, 472, 471 and 479 of mauza Barakashipur, jurisdiction list No. 53; (i) 
Kashiani Khal; (iv) Cadastral survey plot Nos. 697, 719 to 722, 490, 489, 480, 481, 482 and 440) of 
Kashiadanga, jurisdiction list No. 67; (v) Cadastral survey plot No. 583 of Ashair, jurisdiction list 


No. 52. 


2. In exorcise of the power conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 
(XVI of 1927), the Governor is pleased to appoint the Collector, West Dinajpur, to enquire into and determine the 
existence, nature and extent of any rights alleged to exist in favour of any person in or over any land comprised within 
the limits specified in the schedule given above and to deal with the same as provided in Chapter II of the said 4০৮. 


3. In exercise of the power conferred by section 17 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XV1 of 1927), the Governor 
is pleased to appoint the Commissioner of the Presidency Division to hear appeals from the orders passed by the 
Forest Settlement Officer under section 11, section 12, section 13 or section 16 of the said Act. 


By order of the Governor, 


kK, SEN, 5995. 


Se 
No. 7655¥or.—] 3th July 1956.—-In exercise of West—Cadastral survey plot No. 1657 (Road) 
the powers conferred by clauses (a) and (b) of of ihe same mauza and police-station Dub- 
sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Indian Forest rajpur. 


Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), the Governor is pleased ۱ 
to declare that it has been decided to constitute 2. Tp exercise of the power conferred by clause 


as reserved forest, to be called the Kendula (c) of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the fndion 
Reserved Forest, the lands measuring 11.90 acres Forest Act, 1927 (XVI otf 1927), the Governor 1s 
and situated within the boundaries described in pleased to appoint the Collector, Birbhum, to 


the schelule below, in mauza Kendula, jurisdic- ial ae into and determine the existence, nature 
tion list No. 145, police-station Dubrajpur, in the and extent of any rights alleged to exist in favour 
of any person in or over any land comprised 


Suri subdivision, in the district of Birbhum: aL گند‎ ۱ ۱ : 
within the limits specified in the schedule given 


The Schedule above and te deal with the same as provided 10 
Chapter II of the said Act. 


0. ডি. Plot No. سس‎ 
acres), 

۱ 3. In exercise of the power conferred by sec: 
169561,) i 10.90 tion 17 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 
1659(P.) 1ا‎ 1927), the Governor is pleased to appoint the 

Commissioner of the Burdwan Division to heat 
11.90 appeals from the orders payed by the Torest 
Settlement Officer under section 11, section I, 
é section 15 or section 16 of the said Act. 
Boundaries 
North—(z) Southern boundary of mauza Asad- 

ganj, jurisdiction list No. 144 of tues No. 7778For.—I7th July 1956.—The Governor 

aed police-station ; (vi) Fort of مس‎ is pleased to allow Shri K. ©. Rai Choudhury, 

survey plot No, 1658 of the Kendula mauza یں میوروتا جج رت ہہت‎ রাজা বানা 
and polire-station Dubrajpur. employed), leave on average pay for four months, 
Kast—Q) Western boundary of mauza Bazar- with effect from ist August 1956, under 

pur, jurisdiction list No. 149 of police- rule 184(b)(ii) of West Bengal Service 17165. 

station Dubrajpur; (i) Part of cadastral Part I. 

survey plot Noa: 1658 and 1609 of the Ken- 

dula mauza and police-station Dubrajpur. 

By order of the Governor, 


South—Part of cadastral survey plot No. 01 
of the Kendula mauza and police-station 


Dubrajpur. R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


پممدیھہ۔ ہإھ مم পালি‏ 


Veterinary 


| NOTIFICATION : 
No. 7922Vety.—20th July 1956.—The Governor 


is pleased to appoint the following officers of the 
West Bengal Veterinary Service as Superintendents 
of Veterinary Services to take charge of the New 
Range offices at the headquarters noted aguinst 
each, with effect from the lst August 1956:— 


wWame Territorial Headquarters. 
Name of officer. of jurisdiction. 
Range. 


1, ShriS.K,Bha- III Districts of Hooghly, Burdwan. 
duri. Burdwan and Bir. 

bhum. 

Districts of Nadia Krishnagar. 

and Murshidabad. 

Districts of Malda Malda. 

and Weat Dinajpur. 


Shri B. Chow- 1 
dhuri. 


3. shri P.K. Bose ৬ 
(I). 


By order of the Governor, 
R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


REFUGEE RELIEF AND REHABILITATION 
۱ DEPARTMENT 


Establishment 


NOTIFICATION 

No. 10456Kstt.—3lst July 1956.—The Gov- 
rnor is pleased to appoint Shri Sudhir Ranjan 
jupta, temporarily as Administrator, Refugee 
fownship at Gayeshpur in the district of Nadia 
vith effect from the date on which he assumes 
harge of the post for six months or until further 
۶۸م(‎ vice Shri B. B. Ghosh, transferred. 


This cancels this department notification 
Vo. 8095 Iustt., dated 5th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. CHAKRABARTY, Dy. Secy. 


শিক্ষা বিভাগ | 
EDUCATION DEPARTMEN11 


NOTIFICATIONS 

কলিকাতা :جم‎ ৭৬০২শিক্ষা।৪এ-১১৩1৫৬।--১৭ই জুলাই sacs t— 
কলকাতা সংস্কৃত কলেজের (টোল িভাগ) পাশ্চমব্গা অবর ٢| 
$ত্যকের (পুরুষ Teer) পাঁর্ণানর উপাধায় aos হারনম্পন ঝা পদত্যাগ 
করায় এ পদে ও এ কৃতাকে শ্রীঅযোধ্যানাথ সান্যাল, ব্যাকরখাচার্যকে 
২৯শে মার্চ ১৯৫৬ হইতে ১৯৫১ সালের Ge কলেজের ء٣۴‎ 
আরম্ভ হইবার oa’ পর্যস্ত অস্থায়িভাবে নিয়োগ করা হইয়াছল। 
Calcutta, — No. 7602Edn. /4A-113/56. - 17th 
July 1966.—Shri Ayodhya Nath Sanyal, 
Vyakaranacharyn, was appointed in the West 
engal Junior Educational Service (Men's 
Branch), to act ag Lecturer in’ Panini at the 
Sanskrit College (Tol Department), Calcutta, with 
efect from the 29th March 1956 up to the date of 
commencement of the summer vacation of the 


college in 1956, wice Vandit Harinandan Jha, 
resigned, 


কাঁলকাত্য।-নং ৭৬০৩শিক্ষা।৪এ-১১৩1৫৬।--১৭ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
“কাঁলকাতা সং্কৃত কলেজের (টোল দিভাগ) পাঁ*চুমব্গ چب‎ শিক্ষণ 
٢٢ ہچں‎ বিভাগ) পাঁণানয় উপাধ্যায় শাণিত হারনন্দন ঝা 
RUIN করায় &এ পদে ও এ কৃতাকে শ্রীঅযোধ্যানাথ সান্যাল, 3۰ 
TCE ওরা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ হইতে পুনরাদেশ পর্ধন্ত অস্থায়ভাবে ۴1 
করা হইল। 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 a. 3057 


Calcutta. — No. 7603Edn.¥4A-113/56, — 17th. 
July 1956.—Shri Ayodhya Nath Sanyal, 
Vyakaranacharya, is appointed 50806 in the West 


Bengal Junior Educational Service . (Men’s 
Rranch), as Lecturer in Panini at the Sanskrit 
College (Tol 1 Calcutta, with effect 


from the érd July 1956, vice Pandit Harinandan 
Jha, resigned or until further orders. 


কলিকাতা سے‎ ৭৬৫৮শক্ষা।৪এ-১১৭।৫৬।--১৮ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
--কলিকাতা wet cara কলেজেয্স পশ্চিমবঙ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ ,কৃত্যকের 
(মালা বিভাগ) বাাঁজ্যক ভূবিদ্যার উপাধ্যায়া শ্রীমতী মায়া দত্ত মাতৃত্বের 
ছুটি লওয়ায় এ পদে ও এ Fors শ্রীমতশী লশলাবতশ fu, এম,এ-কে 
১৬ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ অথবা পরবততশি যোগদানের তারিখ হইতে ১৯৫৬ 
সালের 5ت‎ কলেঞ্জের পূজাবকাশ আরচ্ভের পূর্ব کم‎ অথবা পুনরাদেশ 
পর্ষ্ত অস্থাঁয়ভাবে নিয়োগ করা হইল। 


Calcutta. — No. 7658Edn. /4A-117/56. — 18th 
July 1956.—Shrimati Lilabati Mitra,* M.A., 18 
appointed to act as Lecturer in Commercial 
Geography at the Lady Brabourne College, 
Calcutta, in the West Bengal Junior Educatidnal 
Service (Women’s Branch), with effect from the 
16th July 1956 or any subsequent date on which’ 
she joins there up to the commencement of the 
Puja Vacation of the College in 1956, vice 
Shrimati Maya Dutta on maternity leave, or -until 
further orders. 


কাঁলকাতা।--নং ৭৮৩টাঁশক্ষা।8এ-৭৬1৫৬।--২৫এ HITE ১৯৫৬।-- 
পাশচমবঙ্গ শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের (পুরুষ বিভাগ) বিদ্যালয়সমূহের বিশেষ 
কার্ষের জন্য সহ-পাঁরদর্শক শ্রীক্ষতীশচন্দ্র কুশারশ, বি,এ, 'ব,টি-কে তাঁহার 
অবসর গ্রহণের SAY ২০শে জুলাই ১৯৫৬ হইতে ছয় মাসের জনা এ 
Fors ও এ পদে অস্থাঁয়ভাবে নিয়োগ করা হইল। 


Caicutta.—No. 7830Hdn. /4A-76/56.—25th July 
1956,—Shri Keshitish Chandra Kushari, B.A., 
B.T., Assistant Inspector of Schools for Special 
Duties, West Bengal, attached to the Education 
Jirectorate, in the West Bengal Educational 
Service (Men’s Branch), who retired on the 20th 
July 1956, is re-employed to act in the same post 
and in the same service for a period of six months 
with effect from that date. 


কলিকাতা IAL ৭৮৬৪ শিক্ষা ।২এল-১৯।৫৬।--২৫এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
_ফাঁলিকাতা প্রেসিডেম্পী কলেজের পশ্চিমবঙ্গ শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের چیہ‎ 
বিভাগ) অর্থশাস্ত্ের সহ-অধ্যাপক ۰ھ‎ ঘোষ, এম,এ-কে ১লা 
সেপ্টেম্বর ১৯৫৬ অথবা পরবর্তী ef লওয়ার তাঁরখ হইতে we 
বৎসরের জন্য অধায়নাবকাশ মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


Calcutta.—No. 7864Edn. /2L-19/56.—25th July 
1956.—Shri Ramesh Chandra Ghosh, M.A., 
Assistant Professor of Economics, Presidency 
College, Calcutta, in the West Bengal Educa- 
tional Service (Men’s Branch), 1s granted study 
leave for a period of two years with effect from the 
Ist September 1956 or any subsequent date from 
which he availa himeelf of it. 


কুচবিহার-নাদয়া-নং  ৭৮৬৭শিক্ষা।৬ট-৭1৫৬1-২৬এ = 8 
১৯৫৬ ।-পাঁশ্চমবঙ্গা শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের মোহলা رتچ‎ কৃফনগর গভর্ন- 
মেল্ট ۳ہ"‎ হাই চ্কুলের প্রধান শিক্ষায়তী Awl আময়া wees 
অনা বদলি হওয়ায় এ পদে এ .یع‎ ফুচবিহার সুনীতি একাডোমির 
অস্থায়শ প্রধান ۹ب٭‎ fare আশালতা মোদক, axa, faite 
যোগদানের তার হইতে পৃনজ্াদেশ পর্যন্ত অস্থায়ভাবে বদলি করা 
করা হইল। 

এতন্থারা এই বিভাগের ১২ই GA ১৯৫৬ তারিখের ৬৩৯৭শিক্ষা নম্বর 
প্রজ্জাপনটি বাতিল করা হইল। 

Cooch Behar-Nadia.—No. 7801117).161-716.- 
26th July 1956.—Shrimati Ashalata Modak, 
M.A., 131, officiating Headmistress, Sanity 
Academy, Cooch Behar, im the West 
Bengal Educational Service (Women's 
Branch), is transferred to act as Headmistress, 
Krishnagar Government Girls’ High Schoo} in that 
service with effect from the date on which she 
joins there vice Shrimati Amiya Das Gupta trans- 
ferred and until further orders. 

This cancels this department notification 
No. 6397Edn., dated the 12th June 1966. 


3058 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 9, 1956 


———— 


[Parr ] 


মাঁদয়া-কুচাবহার HA ৮৬ ্শক্ষা।-২৬এ আুলাই Sacy ।--পশ্চিম- 
বঙ্গ শিক্ষণ, কৃত্যকের মহলা বিভাগ) কুচাবহার সুনশীত একাডোমির 
۹م‎ প্রধান শিক্ষায়িত্রী শ্রীমতশ আশালতা মোদক অন্যত্র বদলি হওয়ায় 
এ পদে এ কৃত্যকের Feary গভরনমেল্ট গার্লস ছাই স্কুলের প্রধান 
[শক্ষায়ঘশ শ্রীমতী আময়া দাশশৃস্তা, বি,এ, বি,উ-কে যোগদানের তাঁরথ 
হইতে বদলি কয়া হইল। 


এতশ্ধারা এই fre ১২ই জুন ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখের دہ‎ ۷۳۷۳۴۳ নম্বর 


প্রজ্ঞাপনটি বাতিল করা হইল। 


NadiaCooch 881181.--7০0. 7868Edn.—26th July 
1956;:—Shrimati Amiya Das Gupta, B.A., B.T., 
Headmistress, Krishnagar Government (31718? 
High Sehgol, in the West Bengal Educational 
Service (Women’s Branch), is transferred as Head- 
mistress,«Sunity Academy, Cooch Behar, in that 
service: with effect from the date on which she 
joins therd vice Shrimati Ashalata Modak trans- 
ferred. 91 ۱ 

This cancels this department notification 
Nos 6398Edn., dated the 12th June 1966. 


কলিক্ষাভা।-নং ৪৮৭৭শিক্ষা।৪এ-৮১।৫৫।--২৬এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬1 
কলিক্ষাতা গভর্নমেন্ট কলেজ অফ আর্ট ও ক্র্যাফূটের পশ্চিমবঞ্গা উত্তর 
শিক্ষণ কৃতাকের (OCT বিভাগ) অধ্যক্ষপদে শ্রীচল্তামীণ করকে যোগ- 
দানের তারিখ হইতে স্থায়িভাবে নিয়োগ করা ۱ 

Calcutta,—No. 7877Kdn. /4A-81/55.—26th July 
1956.—Shri Chintamoni Kar is appointed sub- 
pecan as Princtpal, Government College ০1 
Art and Craft, Calcutta, in the West Bengal 
Senior Educational Service (Men’s Branch), with 
effect from the date on which he joins the duties 
of the post there. 


কলিকাতা ।_নং ৭৮৭৮শিক্ষা।২এল-৩৭।৫৬।-২৬এ জুলাই ১৯৫৬। 
-কলিকাত্বা প্রোসডেন্পী কলেজের পাশ্চমবঙ্গ উত্তর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকর 
(maa বিভাগ) تن‎ অধ্যাপক প্রীউপেন্দ্রনাথ ঘোষাল, 'বি,এস-স 
(অনার্স, লল্ডন)-কে পাশ্চিমবঞ্গ Bors নিয়মাবলীর (প্রথম খন্ড) ১৭২৫) 
ধারা অনুসারে ২৬শে নভেম্বর ১৯৫৬ হইতে ২১শে ডিসেম্বর ১৯৫৫ 
পর্যন্ত ব্যান্তগত প্রয়োজনে aio মঞ্জুর করা হইয়াছিল। 


Calcutta.--No. 7878Edn. /21-37/56.—26th July 
5 Upendra Nath Ghosal, B.Sc. (11018,) 
(lendon), 1১701988017 of HKeonomics, Presidency 
College, Calcutta, in the West Bengal Senior 
Kducational Service (Men’s Branch), was allowed 
leave on private affairs for the period from the 
26th November 1955 to the 2186 December 1955 
under rule 172(a) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 


CTT AL ৭৯০২শিক্ষা।8৪এ-১২২1৫৫।--২৭জ জুলাই ১৯৫৬ 
হুগলশ মহসীন কলেজের ۰١۰۹ا‎ Bou Perey কৃতাকের পে 
1বভাগ) অস্থায়ী অধাক্ষ শ্রীআব্দুল ওহাব মামুদ, এমএ, 1۹,1۳۳ (অসন)কে 
এ পদে ও এ ہچ‎ ১৮ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে স্থাঁয়ভাবে 
[নিয়োগ করা হইল। 

Hoogily,—No. TH 2 Edn. | A122 /65.—27th 
July 1956.—Shri Abdul Wohab Mahmood, M.A,, 
B.Litt.(Oxon.), officiating Irincipal, Hooghly 
Mohsin College in the West Bengal Senior Edu- 
cational Service (Men’s Branch), is appointed 
substantively to that post and in that service 
with eftect from the 18th July 1956. 


দাজশলং।+নং ৭৯৬৯ শক্ষা।৪এ-১০৯1৫৬।--২৮শে জুলাই ৯৯৫৬। 
 দার্জালং গভর্নমেন্ট কলেজের পাঁশ্চমবঞ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের (পুরুষ 
বিভাগ) অর্থাবদ্যার উপাধায়পদে শ্রীপুরুপদ রায়, এম,এ।কে যোগদানের 
তাঁরখ হইতে পুনরাদেশ AS অস্থায়ভাবে নিয়োগ করা হইল। 


‘ সাঁচিব। 

Darjeeling.—No.  706915017.1 44-109106.--281) 
July 1956.—Shri  Gurupada Roy, M.A., 28 
appointed to act as Lecturer in Economics in the 
West Bengal Junior Educational Service (Men’s 
Branch) at the Darjeeling Government College 
with effect from the date on which he 10208 the 
duties of the post there or until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. M. SEN, Secy. 


Office of the Accountant-General, West Bengal 


NOTIFICATIONS 
Subject: Corrections to Treasury Rules. 

No, TM/567.—25th July 1956.—All drawing and disbursing officers of 
the Government of India and all Treasury and Sub-Treasury Officers 1m 
West Bengal are hereby informed of the following further corrections made 
in the Central Government Compilation of the Treasury Rules, Volumes I 


and F¥:— 


Volume 1 (First Edition, Second Reprint) 


{1) Page 89.— Rule 272— 


Insert the following ‘‘Note’ below this Rule: — 
“Note—It is not necessary to attach the increment certificates im respect 


of class 1V staff in Form T.R.. 
payment and submission to audit. But for 


24 to the pay-bills intended for 
مرو‎ of test check 


during local audit, these certificates should be attached to the office 
copies of the pay-bills retained by the disbursing officers.”’ 


(2) Page 144.—-Rule 437— 


Substitute the following for the last three sentences of this rule as 


amended by correction slip 


No, 195:— 


“The bill shall then be returned to the person presenting it and will be 
paid at the Bank in accordance with the order of the ‘Treasury 
Officer, the Bank being responsible only for strict adherence to this 
order and for obtaining a proper discharge from the payee/endorsee 
of the bill in addition to bis signature at the foot of the bill. In 
cases where the payee/endorsee does not find it convenient to receive 
payment personally, this discharge should be signed before the bill 


1৭ presented at the Treasury. 


In such cases, the person through 


whom payment is desired to be made shall be required to produce a 
letter in Form No, T. R. 72 authorising him to take the payment’’. 


Volume II (First Edition, Reprint). 


(1) Page 130.—Forym T. R. 22— 


a 
0 


77140 the following as certificate 5-A in this form.— 


“FA -(Cortified that all Claas 


TB Government 


servants, 0 


- Constables, Constables, etc. for whom increments have been claimed 
in the bill have rendered the required period of approved service 
entitling them to the increased pay drawn in the bills’. 


Part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3069 


ات .زیت صمت ০৯ পপ কযা Rares উদ উল ee‏ 
سس تورم سے ۰ مو وس .یہ পরত পাপা‏ .سیت -ت--حح وچ 0 -تےہھجچوتہِ.تتت-- ——————————————————— 


(2) Page 16.—Appendix 4— 


le. 


Insert the following as paragraph (8) at the-end of this Appendix ra 

“(8) For thé purpose of drawal of transit pay and allowances of a 
Government seryant on his promotion from a  non-gazetted to a 
gazetted post, an extra copy of the last pay certificate should be sent 
by the Head of the office direct to the Audit Officer’. — wn 

[Vide ٣. 8, Nos. 212 and 214 to Volume I and Nos, 108 and 109 09 


Volume II of C. T. R.] 


Subject: Annual Establishment Returns 


No. TM/568.—27th July 


1956.—In 


inviting a reference to 


paragraph 119 of the General Financial Rules, Volume I, it is stated that it. 
has been decided by the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, in 
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India that the 
Annual Establishment Return will, in future, be prepared so مو‎ to show the 
position as on Ist March of every year. The returns shotld alse,,.be 
transmitted so as to reach this office not later than 16th April, 


All heads of offices of the Union Government are therefore requested, to 
note the above orders of the Government of India for necessary action and 


future guidance, 


L. P. KHANNA, 


Dy. Accountant-General (Central). 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTICE 


Appellate Side 
Leave 


nooghly,—No. 4803A.—dlst July 1956,—Shri 
Amiya Prasad Das, lately officiating Subordinate 
Judge of Hooghly, is allowed earned leave under 
rule 171(a) of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I, for the period from the 2nd to the 26000) 
July 1956, 


No. 4808A.—3lst July 1956.—In supersession 
of the Government of Bengal, Judicial Depart- 
ment, notification No. 3259J., dated the 4th 
April 1932, allowing Shri Manindra Mohan 
×0 0 then Munsif of Mulda in the dis- 
trict of Rajshahi and Malda, extension of leave 
without leave salary for the period from the 19th 
January 193] to the 6th April 1931, Shri Bhatta- 
charyya, now District Judge of 24-Parganas, is 
allowed leave on half average pay for the period 
from the 19th January 1931 to the 16th Febru- 
ary 1931 under Subsidiary Rule 275(a) of the 
Fundamental and Subsidiary 10168 read with the 
exception thereunder and thereafter extraordi- 
nary leave for the period from the 110) February 
1931 to the 6th April 1941 under Subsidiary Rule 
2TH(c) ۰ 

Midnapore.—No, 4839A.—Ist August 1956.— 
Shri Amitubha Datta, Muusif of Ghatal سا‎ the 
district of Midnapore, is allowed earned leave 
under rule 171(a) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part J, for fifteen days with effect from 


the Mth July 1956. 
| K. C. SEN, Registrar. 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF 
DIVISIONS 


Burdwan Division—Chinsura 


No. 21313.G.—24th, July 1956.—In  accord- 
ance with the provisions of rule 698, Chapter 
۸۲۱۲۱۱ 01 the Bengal Jail Code, 1937, Vol. 1, 
] hereby re-appoint the following gentlemen to 
be Honorary Teachera in the Suri Jail ig the 
district of Birbhum for a period of two years 
with effect from the 29th September 1956 :— 

For Hindu Prisoners. 

Shri Sarojaksha Chakraborty, B.A., B.T., 
late Assistant Head Muster, Beni Madhab 
Tuatitution, Suri. ۱ 

For 1114516)17 Prisoners 

Shri Qaazi Abdul Gaffur, Head Maulvi, Beni 

Madhal Tnetitution, Surt. | 


No, 21477.0.--2410) July 1956.—In 68০97115009 
with the provisions of rule 56(2) of Chapter ۷ 
of the Bengal Jail Code, Vol. 1, Seventh Edition, 
1 hereby appomt Shrimati Bidyut Lata Mahald- 
nabish, M.A., a8 non-official ludy visitor of the 
Uluberia Sub-Jail in the district of Howrah for 
a period of two years with effect from the date 
of this notification. 


No. 9201..8.-G.—28th July 1956.—It is hereby 
notified for general information that under rule 
20(b) read with clause (4) of rule 22 of the Rules 
for the Management of Charitable Dispensaries in 
West Bengal, that the following gentlemen, 
namely :— 


(1) Shri Jnanendranath Bhowmick. 
(2) Shri Narayananda Bahubalindra. 
(3) Janab Makbul Mallik. 
(4) Shri Rakhal Chandra Maity. 
(6) Shri Basanta Kumar ۸۰. 
(6) Shri Sripati Charan Samanta. 
(7) Shri Haripada Maity. 
(8) Shri Satiprasanna Das. 
(9) Shri Bamapada Sebud. 
are appointed to be members of the Committee 


for the Management of the Charitable Dispensary 
at Muyna in the district of Midnapore vice ;— 


(1) Shri Krishna Das Pradhan. 
(9) Raja Heramba Nanda Bahoobalindra. 
(3) Shri Jagadish Chandra 4. 
(4) Shri Radha Kanta Ghorat. 
(5) Shri Gayaram Barman. 
(6) Shri Sudhir Chandra Das. 
(7) Shri Ramesh Chandra Samanta. 
(8) Shri Kali Frasanna Maity. 
(9) Shri Rajani Kanta Das, 
who have been deemed to have vacated their 


seata under clause (4) of rule 22 of the aforesaid 
rules, 


B. SARKAR, Commissioner. 


9000 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 fant x 


ee ্্্্্ছহছকলকিনল লহ্্্শ্্্্ু্্চ্ল্ল্্্্্্্জজশ 
song Berlal Name of Cadastral Arva. 
FORM “H No. a تب‎ oe 7+8 -ِ-- 0 
be 4 urisdiction ot No. 
Burdwan, the 5th June 1956. 15 Ondal, 52 .. $10 "86 += Debendranath Ghose and others 
Whereps the property specified in the schedule 16 Ditto. یہ‎ 56277 28 ۶۸۱۸۲۳۰۰: 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of others. 
the Disfriet Magistrate No. 3491L.A., dated 5th ت1‎ Ditto. ہت‎ 2158 Ninhanath Chuttapadhya and 
June 1942, with effect from Gth May 1942 until বি 
10706] order of the Central Government; 7, ৪47 86 Haripada De and others, 
19 101৮9 “٠ 81 ‘66 = 5১171081881) Keut and others. 
Aud whereas, the Central Government have 0 ۱ 
decided that the said property shall be released کے .. 7310 تو‎ +40807 
from 0۱1151۴1031+ 878 62 
$61 8 . 
And whereas, in exercise of the powers conferred 21 Ditto .. 1671+ 14 سس‎ Bhaduri and others. 
hy sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisition- 00. .0 
ing and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, a2 Ditto .. হা) :£ 
1993 (No. XXX gf 1952), I, Shri A. K. Sen, ا ہہ رز‎ 
L.A:S., Dhstrict “Magistrate, being competent .ك0“‎ 
authority under the, said Act, have specified Shri Ani) Kumar Dutta and others, 
.: : ৮ - 2574 50 
Radhavath Kundu tnd others as the persons to 448 14 
whem possession of the said property shall be ibs 2 
হি, রঃ ۱ ۱ 2 Ditto .. oy ee 
Aml whereas, the said Shri Radhanath Kundu 4731 ْ 7 } ana Ch, Kundu and others 
und oth@rs cannot be found and have no agent 1880 = 15 J ۶ں‎ Dignala. 
or other person empowered to accept delivery on 94: 001880 .. 408 8 
ae : 1 Bangshidhar Kunde and others 
their behalf ; 421 -21 0 of Bhadur. 
Now, therefore in exercise of the powers con- 2 Ditto .. 408 تو‎ 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said সা 311৮ গিয়া سوا‎ 
Act, 1, Shri A. K. Sou, J.A.8., District Magis- সিরা রী 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property 1s 412-30 
released from requisition. 1 کا‎ 
423 “99 }Brindaban Gope and others of 
Schedule 4250-58 | Dakshin Khanda. 
Case No. 3/3R of 1995-56. تو جو‎ 
سم‎ Name 4 Cadastral Area. Name of owners. 446 46 
0. UZ aurve 
“jurisdiction plot No. 27 Ditto ৬ 422 1-62 Thakaram Chattapndhya of 
151. 8 Bhadur. 
0৫9), 62 .. 397. ‘22 Radha Nath Kundu. 28 Ditto ہس‎ ۲  -24 Debendra Nath Bhattacharjee 
৫ 1974 -0$ and others of Ondal. 
2 Ditto on 243 1 65 \ Charu Bala Dasi and others 1437 41 
249 “99 of Dignala. 1678 - 28 
1656 19 
s Dito .. 251 -14 488 2٤ 
1325 ا و خی 0ء‎ 01709] and others 442 ‘08 
2560 61 Ondal. 478 185 
23897 ০7 2583 09 
1808 19 2525 12 
997-21 
Ditto... 264 -10 Noor Mahammad Kashem. 1263 18 
পাচ 1265 ‘04 
Ditto “4 238 20 84 8k. Karim Buxa. ees eh, 
7 65 1:90 Ukshra Zamindary. Estate 
০০ 360 “26 چس یں ا‎ 29 Ditto و‎ 1873 “18 «©Burendra Nath Bhattacharjee of 
¥78 0-81 Onda! 
529  :39 
2586 +18 30 Ditto, 458 48 Bagala Sankar Chattapadhys 
2706 1-20 and others of Dignala. 
9 -61 
ote 1:04 31 Ditto 7 460 ‘09 Achala ملعا[‎ Dasya of Bhadur 
685 = -23 
642 -12 32 Ditto এ 476 °44 Kam Sankar Gangull. 
وعہ‎ - 80 
721 -50 83 Ditto. 480 15 
927 9-48 626 08 
1014 43 629 02 $Dwijendra Mandal and others. 
1027 +07 681 01 
711 98 495 = +04 
8 £ 
mi সঃ 34. اوہ ماما‎ 15 
1088 "1? 2580 -82 
18. 0 2561 12 18187020070 Dasl of Ondal. 
1141 14 قد‎ :% 
1219 "1? 
1318 708 কলি 01 
134808 4,1 
16041 56 35 01৮7. 499 ۸ہ‎ 
853 :19 ক ০2৪ 56 
1318-08 090 22 
568 85 ¥ ٦ 1 ree! A Amar Garal and others. 
oe : A th 0 ৮৫ otner : 
. 2 Ditto 297 24 on کو‎ yen at ise? aa 
1888 9 
8 Ditto .. رد لد‎ Mahadeb | Bhattacharjee of 1354 201 
n ۰ 
Ditto 7 814 +18 Jugal 10740) Chattopadhya of 26 Ditto 7 = Bhambhu Garal and othors. 
7 857 -28 f Ondal 608 :را‎ 
$64 7ؾ‎ G00 08 
‘10 
) wa 331 -$4 Nagendra Bala Das! and others 
০ On Yor Oui i 
al and others 87119 .. 580-04} 
نت‎ সর. ہس‎ wis রি ا سا خی‎ ০০০০০ 49 46 } Bhushan Garal and others. 
i এ 
দা 834 11 
রঃ me 87 80 (Sripati Chakrabarty and others ~ 
477 86 >} of Bhadur. $8 «Ditto ww 6 :۵۸ Haripada Dey and othors of 
550 14 oe Hhaduar. 
4 
রি চা হা 17 Anukul Chandra Kundu and 89 - 7 0 &96 ‘06 Gobinds Prasad Kundu. 
; og others of Ondal, . 
461 Dey. 
2858 “18 40 0ا‎ 507 18 Pramath Nath Dey 
14 Ditto, 840 +68 \Debendra Nath Mitra and 4]. “Ditto. 603 +02 Gorachand Pal and other ¢ 
1882 72 others. Tamla. 


Parr 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3061 


سس 


চি বব OT MORAG رد لیے چا بھی‎ 


be bt eae 


۰ ات 
serial Name of Cadastral Areva. Name of ownern. Rerlal Name'of Cadastral Arcay Name +/711705,‏ 
ْ٭ 7 ا No, mauza with 80৬৫ No. mauza with‏ 
jurisdiction plot No. 18150019019) plot No‏ 
liat. list. 7‏ 
a ۸,2803 ra Ratan Dey and others 88 QOmilal, 52 .. 962 ‘$6 Panchanan Pal and others.‏ و ...62 )00481 42 
ঃ ৭8৬11)118, নকলে‏ 
Ditto ۰ 966 30۷۵ 0901 Bfankar Hazra.‏ 84 
Ditto ea 617 89108911054 Dasi, aK Ditto 7 7 *‏ 48 
Narahari Pal and others. _ 1807 4‏ 71 2٥ہ‏ ہے مطلام +ہ 
Ditto .. 638 :80  Bholanath Huxra and others of 1881 ..‏ 45 
Tamla. 1416 ১0০‏ 05 657 
পি 8‏ 
26+ ,1465 ?9 750 
৪5) 5 Of 1311 88৮3 1 ০৫.‏ 64 
mala anxar anu a‏ : 2° 
others we va‏ 03 1602 10 648 
07 1532 00* 649 
یا کے ا ڑا 
১09‏ )1350 
32 1436 1131 854 ہ.۔  ১11‏ 
رف নী: 04 154 Parce and others,‏ 
fy.”‏ 8( 1596 
Ditto... 637 ‘82 Rampada Mistr! and ot! ,‏ 
٦‏ ل”ز .. Ditto‏ مہ رت یں Me‏ 2 
701৮0 ০, 00 1.0 4 1011 :28 11588 Jal Panda of Kajora,‏ .48 
1৮44 দা Dey and athors 111 ina |‏ ال pee‏ 
২‏ ےہ / 169 1183 سد 10 ۱ 
ছি ৪ er , it \uday Adhikary and others. 87 Ditto 1004 06 7‏ 
১09‏ 1072 
Ditto, 601 116. Hari Shankar Mandal. 218: 1 00 a‏ می 
la H 1 ۲‏ 714 7 
a পয 88 Ditto .. 1089 ‘03: Kali Mondal and others.‏ اڑا রি‏ ات 0 .- 51 
and 0‏ ام  Kalipada Mandal and others, 89 8 Ditto... 1123 “02 Phan! Hina X‏ $5 710 111 58 
Nundl and others of 90 Ditto 7 1128 05 Bagal Dutta.‏ ای ا پا : و 7 Ditto‏ 2 
Ditto a 1149 08 28411721877) Mandal and others.‏ 91 10 739 1863 
D 7‏ 
Ditto . 1168 -02'  Kamalabala Daal of 00881.‏ 92 کو 111 
es 98 Ditto. 1220031‏ 
Nibaran Mandal and othera, 1683 চর 7‏ 06 1158 
7 86 ۹ 1 !12 
of Ondal.‏ 158 4 1304 
10 1ء 1306 
03 1731 7 1807 
Ditto at 1225 $2‏ 94 
Dittea ٦ 743 ‘54 Gora chand Pal and others. 1248 0 1 Tinkari Mukhapadhya 0৫‏ 8 
ate be Bhalul.‏ 1:14 1744 
Mandal of Onda‏ ہے اوج ہت Ditto...‏ تہ i ar‏ ہ a ee‏ 
16“ 1237 88 806 
Nath Low,‏ نمس 64 1248 .. Ditto‏ 06 سوہ পি 5 MOREE‏ 
Bhadurl of Baktar-‏ سد اھ وش Ditto.‏ 97 و بت 
nagar.‏ , 28* 1346 
Ditto “cs 1257 89 11910110508 Bhaduri and others.‏ 98 
Ditto 763 ‘35‏ 67 
Ditto a 1264 08 \Shibdaa Mandal and others of‏ 90 : 1 
پسسجی ای بط 4ڑ 1268 cos 6 (৫ vee 11688 and others‏ 
«Ditto... 1284 1:96. Nanfbala Daal.‏ 190 ز 184 ٹا 
২৭ 1288 08 318777505 Dutta and others,‏ 01660 .101 ہچ ০ Mo ১ জেসন‏ 
,95501905255 ق3 تقد لی مھا 102 ۲ ا ہہ ہے 
08“ 779 
১1787177885 Dutta and others. 103 Ditto si at! টা 7‏ 09 780 
۰۵٥. }Shushila Bala Debi.‏ 1387 "و 
42 6919 £ 293 
31 6918 42- 1274 
১৪০০0 পু) 27‏ مم Pe harjura,‏ مٹسس ডি‏ ت9 Dio‏ 
district Bankura, 13 8 Gourraj and others,‏ 
۹١ [৮৮০ .. 801 “04 |‏ 
\Mandeb Chakraborti and others. 1649 6?‏ 23 1864 
aan Raman Dey and others বে + 177 24০ Chatterjor and‏ + 42 819 7 
of Ranigan). 1435 8? )‏ 22 821 
Mukhapadya,‏ تک راہ ہد رر Ditto‏ 106 2 سوہ کس 
Paul and others. 1886 12‏ ۸۷ھ ১18‏ 807 
Ananda Moyee Dast.‏ } 6ت.- 1355 .. ا٤ا“‏ 107 36 1240 
6 201 
Ditto ae R24 ‘83. Bhutoath Mandal. 108 Ditto 1998 “34 } 0‏ 4 
Ditto ,, 838 -07 Pashupat! Garai and others. 142600 197 / Amarnath Nay‏ 6 
2 9 1448 کہ 1 ٥4 Ditto ., 884 18 Gangaram Garai and others. ~~ Ue ২‏ 
 -08 Phulkumaci Dasya of Dubchurte 1568 = +16 J Ramprasadpar.‏ موہ Ditto,‏ .87 
Ramnath Gangapadhya.‏ 1100 ید ** سر Ditto ., 88৫ 14 Bhusan Garal of Raniganj. no‏ 88 
Ditto ., 837 -60  Bagal Ch. Ghosh of Dubchuria. 111 = Ditto. এ ae‏ 48 
}Anandamoyce Daal and others.‏ 16‘ 1518 
es Me 8‏ 
‘Ol }Nantran Garal and others. ;‏ }85 
0৮ W. 2),‏ 23ھ 1474 7 THitto‏ 112 18“ 885 
00 000 
Ditto ea 151 00 ٦ Shamadas Chakraborty and‏ 1 
others.‏ 37‘ 1560 98 901 
৬ : 0 Al | As রর ۲ Pal,‏ & 
Sheree‏ مور Ditto চি‏ ہد ১, (0:15) Rela, Gam and others of‏ 1190 .7 
71৮৮ ১ 1574 ‘10 Ram Kinkar Gangapadhya and‏ 216 
১, 640 “01 Kamala Bala Dabi of Dub- others.‏ 70600 18 
an " 20, Pareo and others,‏ و 7 Ditto‏ 116 00 
oy 00‏ “ 4 
Ditto ৮ Bs 05 18888747581) Debi,‏ 
Paree,‏ بوة نا 18“ 1590 ۴ Ditto‏ 117 ۹ ]6 
27 1006 27 1208 


8002 THE CAICULTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 86 


; Part | 


a a ad 


Serial ٭‎ Narme of Cadastral area. Name of own rs. 
No, * mauza with ecg 
10783108101) plot No. 
ligt. 
118 0০091, 52 .. 16038 10 Tinkowrl Mukhapsdhya and 
‘ 0 hers. 
119 0 চা اب‎ ۱ 
4 
1611 ‘07 +>»Satish Garai and others. 
1636 42 ] 
2584 ‘01 
120 + Ditto 7 1617 ۰0 
1618 24 Khudiram Bhattacharjee and 
1624 1 others. 
121 Ditto 1648 “18 | Annapurna Debi. 
1648 1:10 
122 Ditto - 1655 +42 
1658 “06 1০২০ Ganguli and others. 
1672 05 
128 Ditto “9 1667 1:07 
1674 86 }Shibdas Mondal and others of 
1684 ٠8 Ondal. 
1609 ৪৮ 
124 Ditto oe tc 2 
1699 14 }<Ashutosh Chattapadhya and 
695 “98 others. 
1692 14 
125 Ditto or 1720 ‘27 ace Manda! and others of 
1721 11 Kumar Bazar. 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, 
Western Range 


No. 6165.—26th July 1956.—D\1.B., Hooghly- 
Nadia.— With the approval of the Inspector- 
General of Police, Shri Sailendra Kumar Sen 
(701৮0, Inspector, District Intelligence Branch, 
Hooghly, under orders of transfer to Nadia, is 
granted twenty-one days’ leave on average pay on 
medical certificate under rule 184(b)(i1) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I, with effect from the 
18th June 1956, in continuation of his joining time 
after departure from Hooghly on 9th June 1956, 
p.m. 

Bankura.—Shri  Pravash Ranjan 
Armed Inspector, Bankura, is granted sixty days’ 
earned leave under 1ule 167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, with effect from 3rd June 
1956, p.m. 


Chatarji, ' 


Serlal Namo of Cadastral Area. Name of owners. 
No. mauza with survey 
jurisdiction plot No, 
list. 
126 Ondal, 52... 2520 36 Bhutnath Chattapadhya and 
others. 
127 Ditto a 2527 60 Shamapada Chattapadhya, 
128 Ditto 7 2585 01 Baasini Bala 10881. 
129 Ditto “a 2609 ‘65 Abinash Mondal. 
180 Ditto ٤ 2611 ‘08 $Aahutosh Miahra of Ondal. 
181 Ditto -7 5960 10 Dobibala Daai of Kutidanga. 
182 Ditto 5 724 11 Satya Kinkar Ray and others 
183 Ditto “a 987 * 
942 ১৫8 {Bharati Debt. 
134 Ditto 5 890 ۰06 } 
1078 560 J Haripada Das and others. 
185 Ditto 7 1368 7ء‎ 
2614 ‘2 Js Aswinl Kumar Bhattacharjee. 
186 Ditto ‘a 491 36 Amarendra = Nath Mukha. 
padhya. 
187 Ditto ۰ 488 ‘84 Nishanath Chattapadhya. 
18 Ditto 0 915 88 Rabi Lochan Dutta of 00881. 
A. K. SEN, 
Collector, Burdwan. 
D.E.B., C.R.P., Howrah - Howrah. — Shn 


Bhupendra Nath Biswas, officiating Inspector, Dis- 
trict Enforcement Branch, Government Railway 
Police, Howrah, now on deputation to Howrah, 18 
temporarily transferred to Howrah, and will 
continue to act as such, in that district, vice 
Shri Jnanendra Nath Nandi, Inspector, Howrah, 
retired on superannuation. 


D.E.B., C.R.P., Howrah-West Dinajpur.—Shr 


Rati Kanta Ray, Inspector, West Dinajpur, 
now temporarily attached to District 
Enforcement Branch, Government Ra- 
way Police, Howrah, 18 granted (۷ 


days’ leave on average pay under rule 184(b)(ti) of 
the West Benga] Service Rules, Part TI, im 
extension of the leave already granted to him in 
notification No. 3693, dated the 3rd May '956, 
published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 21st 
June 1956. 


৪. M. GHOSH, Dy. Inspr.-Genl 


Presidency Division—Calcutta 


No. 807J3.—30th July 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information :— 


Name of union board to which 
appointed with police-station, 
subdivision and district. 


(1) 


Names of persons and ward from which 
appointed to Union Bench and Court. 


Section of law and particulars 
of Government order by which 
power is delegated to issumny 
authority. 


(3) 


Telari, Budge-Budye, Sadar, 24-Par- Ward No IIJJ—Shri Benode Behari Kayal Sections 65 and 73 of the Bengal 


ganas, (P.U.B.) 


Ward No. T1{—Shri Pulin Behari Pramanik. 
Ward No. I—Shri Sudhir Chandra Halder. 
Ward No. II—Shri Sudhir Chandra Pandit. 


Village Self-Government Act, 
1919 (with Government not 
fication No 5617J., dated 10th 
July 1937). 


Ward No. 1J—Shri Kamal] Krishna Hazra. 


K. ©, BASAK, Commissioner. 


Parr 1] 


জলা‏ یحو می سس 


tw 


No. 9061,..8.-G.—26th/28th July 1956.-——The 
appointment of the following gentlemen as mem- 
hers of the Managinng“€ommittee of the South 
Dum Dum Municipal Charitahle Dispensary in 
the district of 24-Parganas is hereby published 
under rule 20(b) of the Dispensary Rules for 
general information :— 


(1) Dr. Kalyan Kumar Sengupta. 

(2) Shri Tarun Kumar Sengupta. 

(7) Shri Sitaram Shaw, 

7 Shri Profulla Kumar Mukherjee. 

7) Dr. Hrishikesh Das, 

6) Shri Nagendra Nath Chatterjee. 

1) Dr. Govinda Roy Chowdhury. 

2 Dr. Upendra Kumar Pal Chowdhury, 

(9) Shri Apurba Krishna Halder. 

(10) Dr. Promode Ranjan Chatterjee, 

(11) The Medical Officer of the Dispensary 
(er officto), 


No. 1080R.G.—2nd August 1956.—Shri Sadhan 
Tal Chatterjee, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector (on probation), West Dinajpur, is 
appointed asa Circle Officer, Sadar, Balurghat, 
mee Shri Santosh Kumar Mitra, Circle Officer, 
Sadar, Balurghat, reverted to general duties at the 
Headquarters station of the distriet of West 
Dinajpur, 


K. CG. BASAK, Commissioner, 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF NADIA 


Special Land Acquisition Branch 
CANCELLATION NOTIFICATIONS 
The 27th July 1956 


Whereas by a notification published at page $863, 
Part I of the Caleutta Gazette, dated the 29th 
September 1955, I required all persons interested 
in the waste lands specified therein to show cause 
withim the prescribed time why the waste lands 
should not be requisitioned ; 


And whereas after considering all such petitions 
and after making further enquiry, I am satisfied 
that the waste lands as mentioned in the schedule 
below, should not be requisitioned ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise cf the powers con- 
lerred on, me under sub-section (3) of section 4 of 
the Waste Lands (Requisitioning and Utilisation) 
Act, 1952, I hereby cancel so much of the afore- 
اتمم‎ notification as related to the plots mentioned 
in the achedule below: 


The Schedule 


Cadastral survey plot Nos. in full—249, 357, 369, 

385), 388, 880, 399, 410, 421, 422, 481, 
447, 465, 466, 468, 469, 507, 530, 532, 534, 
635, 636, 572, 680, 582, 684, 588, 589, 692, 
625, 676, 676/1713, 678, 679, 680, 681, 690, 
721, 722, 729, 730, 747, 748, 749, 72, 758, 
187, 795, 797, 800, 810, 822, 824 825, 840, 
858, 914. 934, 941, 958, 960, 962, 964, 965, 
378, 970, 989, 1048, 1076, 1077, 1081, 1100, 
1101, 1108, 1105, 1106, 1107, 1190, 1۰ 
1122, 14183, 1187, 1165, 1196, 
88, 1290, 
1415: 1429, : 
1443, 1444, 1446, 1619, 1582, 1541, 1546, 
1646, 1640, 1667, 1706, 
2, 808, 1834, 1842, 1856, 2117, 
2137, 2288, 22453, 2963, 2897, 2878, 2974, 
100] and parte of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1, 
479, 5۸9, HOA, 04) BHO, 772. 775, 76 788, 
834, 835, 850, 841, 877, ۸61 863, 968, 983, 
1946, 1050, 1051, 1054, 1089, 1108, 1128, 
1142, 1148, 1115, 1146, .4175), 1162, (158, 
1169, 1212, 1299, 1242, 1246, 1260, 1251, 1256, 
1257, 1311, 1445, 1556, 1600, 1601, 6۰ 
L771, 2202, 2286 and 2240 of mausza 1167+ 
11150111107) list No. 55, policesstation Karimpur, 
istrict Nadia, measuring, an’ aren. more or less, 
80 avres, 


সপে শিপ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3063 


SPREE পা 
রাহা হারার তত আবরার ০০৩ 


Whereuws by a notification published at page 5042 
of the Calcutta Gazette,” Part শু) dated the 15th 
December 1955, খু required all persong interested 
11) 1016 waste lands specified therein to show cause 
within the prescribed time why the waste lands 
should not be requisitioned ; 


And whereas after considering all such petitions 
and after making further enquiry, 1 am satisfied 
that the waste lands as mentioned in the sghedule 
below, should not be wequisitioned ; 

Now, therefore,.jn exercise of the powers con- 
ferred on me under sub-seetion (9) of section 4 of 
the Waste Lands (Requisitioning and Utilisation) 
Act, 1952, T hereby cancel so much of the aforesaid 
notification as related to the plots mentioned in the 
schedule below: 


The Schedule | 


Cadastral survey plot Nos. in full—697, 752, 
820. 821, 823, 1528, 1820, 1824, 2196, 2197/ 
2664, 2296/2685, 2317, 2820, 2821, 2352, 
2354, 2363, 2368 to 2371, 23889, 239%, 2394, 
2402, 2405, 2406, 2415, 2418, 2420, 2421, 2445, 
2446, 2452, 2459, 2466, 2475, 2278, 2279, 
2280, 2281, 2282, 2283, 2294, 2454 and parts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos,- 666, 1527. 1542, 
2089, 2097. 2340, 2395, 2424, 2469/2602, 
2032 and 2534 to 2537 of mauza Harekrishna- 
pur, jurisdiction list No. 914, — police-station 
Karimpur, district Nadia, measuring, an «rea of 
40.94 acres of land. 


ERRATUM 


In notification, dated Krishnagar, the 2৭ 
December 1954, published at page 5042, Part I of 
the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 15th December 
1955, in respect of lands requisitioned under Waste 
Lands (Requisitioning and Utilisation) Act, 1942, 
in mauza IWarekrishnapur, jurisdiction list No. 94, 
police-station Karimpur, district Nadia: 


“Read plot No. 2294 instead of plot No, 2249". 
M. C. MUKHERJEE, Collector. 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police 
Central Range 


No. 4284.—18th July 1996.—C.R.P., Sealdah.— 
Shri Monoranjan Banarji, offg. Inspector, G.R.P., 
Sealdah, is reverted to his substantive rank of 
Sub-Jnspr. as he is considered unfit to continue 89 
Inspector. _ ne 

No. 4407.—24th July 1956.— Burdwan- 
Barrackpore-C.R.P., Sealdah-D.E.B., 24-Parganas. 
—The following transfers and postings are ordered 
in the interest of public service :— 


(1) Under orders of the Inspector-General of 
Police, Shri Probodh Chandra Mazumdar, 
Inspector, Government Railway 
Police, Sealdah, now temporarily attuched 
to 24-Parganas, to Detective Training 
School, Barrackpore, temporarily, ric 
Shri Rudrakshaya Bhattacharjl, 
Inspector, Burdwan, now  tempo- 
rarily attached to Detective Training 
School, Barrackpore, transferred to Dis- 
trict Enforrement Branch, Government 
Railway Police, Howrah, temporarily. 


(2) Shri Tarun Kanti Mitra, officiating 
Inspector, now temporarily attached 
to = ‘District Enforcement = Branch, 


24-Parganas, to Sadar Court, 24-Parganas, 
vice Shri Aditya Das Maitra, Inspector, , 
24-Parganas, temporarily transferred to" 
Detective Training School, Barrackpore, 
vide  Inspector-General’s _ notification 


No. 1832۸ /A, 1513/55, dated 2nd August 


are ۴ 


Both to moye at once, 


M. A, ছা, MASWOOD, Dy, 7 


0604 THR CALCUTTA 6৮210101005, AUGUST 9, 1946 
ll — ee OS 


সপ পপ 7م ےم‎ EE পল 


Presidency Division—Jalpaiguri 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, 
COOCH BEHAR 


ORDERS. 
Dated the 28th’ July 1956. 


In exercise of the powers eonferted by section 0 
of the West Bengal Security Act, 1950, and 
delegated to me by Government order No. 2170P. | 


30-9/50, dated 116) April 1950, of the Home 
(Political) Jepartment, Government of West 
Bengal, under section 38 of the said Act, I do 


hereby order that the Hat at Newajkhana in 
Mekliganj subdivision, will continue to remain 
closed as ordered on 30th April 1955. 


I further order that the Dewanganj Hat in 
Mekliganj subdivision and the Hats and shops at 
Tharaikhana alias Kursha, Karala alias Natkabari 
and Chowhduryhat in Dinhata subdivision shall 
complete all transactions before sunset and shop- 
keepers,” vendors and customers attending the Hats 
and shops shall leave by that time. 


The aforesaid order shall remain in’ force for 
three months, with effect from Ist August 1956. 
Any person contravening the said order shall be 
punishable aceording to the provisions of law. 


Given under my hand and seal of the 0০5, the 


28th day of July, 1956. 


Cooch Behar, the 7151 July 1956. 


Whereas [I ain © satisfied from information 
received that smuggling of foodgrains, parti- 
ularly of rice and paddy, is going on along the 
Indo-Pak ‘border in this distriet resulting in a 
rapid drainage of these commodities from the 
district, and whereas it is immediately necessary. 
in the interest of maintaining supphes of food- 
‘vrains essential for the lite of the community, 
to prevent -such smuggling, and whereas ] am of 
opinion that this can effectively he done only by 
restricting the movement of the said commo- 
dities within a helt of two miles along the 
ventire Indo-Pak border in this district, 1, Shri 
K. P. Sen, District Magistrate and Deputy Com- 
missioner, Cooch Behar, in exercise of the powers 
conferred on me by order No. 2170-P/30-9/50, 
dated 11th April 1950, issued by the Government 
of West Bengal, Home (Political) Depart nent, do, 
by this order under sub-section (1) of section 0 
of the West Bengal Security Act, 1950, prohibit 
the movement of foodgraina ineluding 1006 
paddy. pulses, oilseeds, wheat, gram, ete., in any 
form in quantities in excess of one maund at a 
time within a belt of two miles along the East 
Pakistan-Cooch Behar border in this district 
except the movement of such commodities in 
excess of one maund at a time by hona fide 
dealers and consumers under permits issued by 
the Subdivisional Controller of Food and Sup- 
plies, (€ooch Behar, or by the Subdivisional 
Officer of the subdivision concerned. 


This order will remain in foree for a period of 
three months from the Ist August 1956 to 31st 
October 1956 (77061) days inclusive). 


GFiven under my hand and seal this day the 
ط80‎ July 1956. 


K, P, BEN, 
District Magistrate aud Deputy Commissioner. 


[Parr I 


নি 


Te আস সা পাপা তা 
Ve eee ہت نٹ ش‎ 


7. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 


INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. 1/88787C.T. /2E/1/56-57.—18th July 1956. 
07 Shri S. K. Roy Chowdhury, Ist Additional 
Income-tax Officer, তা is, in 
addition to his own duties and until relieved by 
Shri G. A. James, appointed to hold charge of 
Income-tax Officer, Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling, vce 
Shri D. 11. Chakraborty, transferred. 


(2) Shri 1). R. Chakraborty, Income-tax Officer, 
Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling, is transterred ١8٥۸۹ posted 
as 38rd Additional Incomé-tux Officer, —Dis- 
trict III(1), 266 Shri B. .زط‎ Adwalpalkar, trans- 
ferred. 


(3) Shri A. K. Sarkar, Ist Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District I1(2), 1s, in addition to his own 
duties and until relieved by Shri A. K. Banerjee, 
appointed to hold charge of 2nd Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District T1(2), rice Shri G. A. 
James, transferred. 


(4) Shri G. A. James, 2nd Additional Tneomoe- 
tax Officer, District 1102), is transferred and posted 
aa Income-tax Officer, Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling. Tle 
will take over charge from Shri 8S. .کا‎ Roy 
Chowdhury. 


(5) Shri B. R. Adwalpalkar, 3rd Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District ITI(1), also holding 
the charge of Income-tax Officer, District TIT(1). 
is transferred and posted as Ist and 7th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District ITI, vice 
Shri 1). K. Sen, transferred. 


(6) Shri J). K. Sen, Ist and Vth Additional 
TIncome-tax Officer, Companies District LIT, 8 
transferred and posted as Income-tax Officer, Dis- 
triet ITI(1), Caleutta. He will also hold 1176 
charge of 3rd Additional Income-tax Officer, ])is- 


trict JII(1), until relieved by Shri D. R. 
Chakraborty. 
(7) Shri A. K. Banerjee, Income-tax (Officer, 


Murshidabad-Nadia, is transferred and posted as 
2nd Additional Income-tax Officer, Distriet 1102), 
He will take over charge from Shri A. K. Sarkar. 


(8) Shri R. K. Sen, 2nd Additional [ncome-tax 
10০67, Murshidabad-Nadia, is, in addition to hie 
own duties and until relieved by Shri N. N. Das, 
appointed to hold charge of Income-tax Officer, 
Murshidabad-Nadia, vice Shri A. K. Banerjee. 


_ (9) Shri N,N. Das, fncome-tax Officer, Howrah, 
iq transferred and posted as Income-tax (Officer, 
Murshidabad-Nadia. We will take over charge 
from Shri R. K. Sen. 


(10) Shei K. J. Mukherjee, 2nd Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Howrah, is, in addition to his 
own duties and until relieved by Shri A. Sarkar, 
appointed to hold charge of Ineome-tax Officer, 
Howrah, rice Shri ٣. N. Das, transferred. 


(11) Shri A. Sarkar, [neome-tax — Officer. 
Hooghly, is transferred and posted aa Income-tax 
Officer, Howrah 


(12) Shri J )۸. Roy, Ist Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Hooghly, is, in addition to his own duties 
and until relieved by Shri ھم‎ N. Chatterjee, 
appointed to hold charge of Income-tax Officer, 


Hooghly. 


(13) Shri S. WN. Chatterjee, Ist Additional 
Inecome-tax Officer, Distriet VI, is transferred and 
posted as Ineome-tax Officer, Hooghly, We will 
tuke over charge from Shri J. C. Roy. 


(14) Shri U. S. Dhusia, 2nd Additional Tneome- 
fax Offleer, Refund Circle, is transferred and posted 
ns Int Additional Income-tax Officer, District VI, 
vice Shri 5. N, Chatterjee, transferred, 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 4065 


স্টীল te a ce rr eee re 
লাকী সলিল 


(15) Shri S. C. @Biswas, Income-tax Officer, 
Class II, is posted as 2nd Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Refund Circle, vice Shri U. ডি, Dhusia, 
transferred. 


(16) Shri G. P. Mukherjee, 2nd Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle VIII, 08 
transferred and posted as 5th Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling. 


(17) Shri A. R. Dag Gupta, Income-tax Officer, 
Class II, is posted as 2nd Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Special Survey Circle VIII, wice 
Shri G. 1১, Mukherjec, transferred, 


(18) Shri A. K. Chanda, 13th Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District III(1), is transferred and 
posted as Gth Additional Income-tax Officer, 
Jalpaiguri-Darjeeling. 


(19) Shri 9৮ P. Chaltha, Income-tax Officer, 
Class TT, is posted as 13th Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District III(1), vice Shri A. K. Chanda, 


transferred. 


. (20) Shri G. B. Sett, 4th and 5th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Non-Companies (Income-tax- 
cum-Exceas Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, is 
transferred and posted as lst Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Companies District I. 


(21) On being relieved by Shri G. B. Sett, 
Shri 1. C. Rajagopalan Nair, lst Additional 
Inrome-tax Officer, Companies District I, and also 


holding the charge of Income-tax Officer, 


ETNA en RET পিতা‏ جح 


rompanies District T, wll continue to hold the 
charge of the Income-tax Officer, Companies 
District I. 

(22) Shri P, K. Veer Raghavan, 4th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District ITI(1), is transferred 
and posted مد‎ 4th and 5th Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Non-Companies . (Income-tax-cwm-Excess 
Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, vice Shri G. B. 
Sett, transferred. 


(23) Shri C. A. Uttam Singh, 8th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District I, is trans- 
ferred and posted as 4th Additional Inoeme-tax 
Officer, District TII(1), vice Shri P. K, Veer 
Raghavan, transferred. 


(24) Shri M. Ramaswami, Income-tax ناازه‎ 
(11:57 11) is posted as 8th Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Companies District I, vice Shr C. A. 
Uttam Singh, transferred. 


(25) Shri K. 3B. Narasinham, Income-tax 
Officer, Class II, is posted as 9th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District 111, vice 
Shri P. K. Chatterjee. 


(26) On being relieved by Shri K. ظا‎ 
Narasinham, Shri P. K. Chatterjee, 8th and 9th 
Additional Income-tax Officer, Companies Dis- 
trict III, will continue to hold the charge of 8th 
৮০৮ Income-tax Officer, Companies District 


(27) Shri D. K. Sarkar, Income-tax Officer, 
Special Circle I, is, in addition to his own duties 
and until further orders, posted as lat Additional 


3000 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


(Parr T 


Tnvome-tax Officer, Non-Companies (Income-tax- 
cum-Excees Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, 
relieving Shri P. P, Kaistha, Income-tax Officer, 
Non-Companies (Income-tax-owm-Excess Profits 
Tax) District [, Calcutta, of this additional 
charge. 


§ * 


No,  387910.T. (2E/48/AC/56-57.—18th July 
1956.—Shri M. Amjad Hussein, Inspecting Assist- 
ant Commissioner of Income-tax, Range VII, 
Calcutta (formerly Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax ‘B” Kange, Bombay), who 
proceeded on leave while under orders of transfer 
from Bombay to Calcutta, is allowed under the 
Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned leave for forty- 
eight days, with effect from 14th May 1956 to 30th 
June 1956, with permission to prefix hohday, the 
12th May 1956 and Sunday, the 13th May 1956, to 
the leave. 


Tt is certified that the officer was likely to return 
to duty om the expiry af his leave, at a station 
where the compensatory allowances drawn by him 
at the station from which he proceeded on leave 
were admissible. 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTA 


ORDERS 
No. A/Cs. 36061C.T. /2E/94/55-56.—30th Jul 
1956.—Shri_ اکا‎ Vishwanathan, Additiona 


Income-tax Officer, District 1101), Caleutta, is 
allowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, 
earned leave for twenty-three days, with effect from 
8th June 1956 to 30th June 1946, with permission 
to affix Sunday, the Ist July 1956 to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


No. ا یش ات‎ 21%180188-6.--90৮ July 
1956.—Shri J. 0. Mendiratta, Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District IV(3), Calcutta, is allowed 
under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, earned leave 
for eleven days, with effect from 27th June 1956 
to 7th July 1946, with permission to affix Sunday, 
the Sth July 1956, to the leave. 


Tt 1s certified that the officer waa likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


ও. P. JAIN, Commissioner. 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1966 


7ء 


সাল লিমার সিন 


$ 
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


PUBLIC NOTICE UNDER SUB-SECTION (2) 
OF SECTION 17 OF THE WEST BENCAL 
EVACUEE PROPERTY ACT, 1951. 


NOTICES. 


(1) No. 
(2) No. 
(3) No. 
(4) No. 
(5) No. 
(6) No. 
(7) No. 
(8) No. 
(9) No. 


(10) No. 
(11) No. 
(12) No. 
(13) No. 
114) No. 
‘15)| No. 
(16) No. 
(17) No. 
(18) No. 
(19) No. 
(20) No. 
(21) No. 
(22) No. 
(23) No. 
(24) No. 
(25) No. 
(26) No. 


45612E.P.A., dated 
45614E.P.A., dated 
45616E.P.A., dated 
45618E.P.A., dated 
45620K.P.A., dated 
45622K.P.A., dated 
45624E.P.A., dated 
45626E.P.A., dated 
45628E.P.A., dated 
45630E.P.A., dated 
45632E.P.A., dated 
46634E.P.A., dated 
45636E.P.A., dated 
45638E.P.A., 
45640E.P.A.,, 
45642E.P.A., dated 
45644E.P.A., dated 
45646E.P.A., dated 
45648E.P.A., dated 
45650E.P.A., dated 
46652E.P.A., dated 
45654E.P.A., 
45656E.P.A., dated 
45658E.P.A., dated 
45660E.P.A., dated 
45662E.P.A., dated 


(27) No. 4564E.P.A., dated 


(28) No, 
(29) No. 
(80) No. 
(41) No. 
(32) No. 
(33) No. 
(34) No. 
(39) No. 
(36) No. 
(37) No. 
. 45686E.P.A., dated 
, 45688E.P.A., dated 
. 45690E.P.A., 
. 46692K.P.A., dated 
. 45694E.P.A., dated 
. 45696K.P.A., 
. 45698E.P.A., 
. 45700E.P.A., dated 
. 457026. P.A., 
. 45704E.P.A., 
, 41010801517, 8.) 
. 46708E.P.A., 
. 49710K.P.A., dated 
. 45712E.P.A., 
. 45714K.P.A., 08 
. 45716R.P.A., 
. 46718KE.P.A,, 
. 45720K6.P.A., dated 19th 
. 40122191১45) 
. 450724[7 1),& 5. 


45666E.P.A., dated 
45668E.P.A., dated 
45670E.P.A., dated 
45672E.P.A., dated 


19th 


19th 


dated 19th October 
dated 19th October 


dated 19th October 


19th October 1955. 


19th October 1955. 


19th 1955. 
1959. 
1955. 
1965. 
1950. 
1955. 
1955. 
1969. 
1969. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 


October 
October 
October 
October 
October 
October 
October 
19th October 
19th October 
19th October 
19th October 


19th 
19th 


19th 
19th 


19th October 
19th October 1955. 

19th October 1955. 
19th October 19565. 

19th October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 


19th October 
19th October 
19th October 1955, 
19th October 1966. 
19th October 1955. 
ط10‎ October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 


45674E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


45676E.P.A., dated 
45678E.P.A., dated 
45680E.P.A., dated 
46682E.P.A., dated 
460084101. رر ش.‎ dated 


dated 


dated 
dated 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


dated 


dated 
dated 


dated 
dated 


19th October 1955. 
19th October 1929. 
19th October 195d. 
19th October 1965. 
19th October 1965. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1956. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1959. 
19th October 1955. 


19th October 1956. 
19th October 1956. 


19th October 1955. 
19th October 1966. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1935. 
19th October 1955. 
19th October 1956. 
19th October 1956. 
October 195). 
19th October 1956, 
19th October 1955. 


(98) No. 
(59) No. 
(60) No, 
(61) No. 
(62) No. 
(63) No. 
(64) No. 
(65) No. 
(66) No. 
(67) No. 
(68) No. 
(69) No. 
(70) No. 
(71) No. 
(72) No. 
(19) No. 
(74) No. 
(75) No. 
(76) No. 
(77) No. 


(78) No.- 


(79) No. 
(80) No. 
(81) No. 
(82) No. 
(83) No. 
(84) No. 
(85) No. 
(86) No. 
(87) No. 
(88) No. 
(89) No. 
(90) No. 
(91) No. 
(92) No. 
(93) No. 
(94) No. 
(95) No. 
(96) No. 
(97) No. 
(98) No. 
(99) No. 


(100) No. 
(101) No. 
(102) No. 
(103) No, 
(104) No. 
(105) No. 
(106) No. 
(107) No. 
(108) No. 
(109) No. 
(110) No. 
(110) No. 
(112) No. 
(113) No. 
(114) No. 
(115) No. 
(116) No. 
(117) No. 
(118) No. 
(119) No. 
(126) No. 
(121) No. 


45726H.P.A., dated 19th October 
45728E.P.A., dated 
45730K.P.A., dated 19th Octoher 195d 
45124E.P.A., dated 12th October 1955, 
45986E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
45988E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
45990E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46992E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46094KE.P.A., dated 7th November 1055. 
45996E.P.A., dated 7th November ۰ 
45998E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46000E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46002E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46004E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46006E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46008E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46010K.P.A., dated 7th November 5۰ 
46012E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46014E.P.A., dated 7th November 9955. 
46016E.2.A., dated 7th November 195d. 
46018E.P.A., dated 761) November 1955. 
46020E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46022E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46024E.P.A., dated 7th November 5۰ 
46026E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46028E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46030E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
460321E.P.A., dated Tth November 1955. 
46034E.P.A., dated 100 November 1955. 
46036E.P.A., dated 7th November 1965. 
46038E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46040E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46042E.P.A., dated 7th November: 195d. 
46044E.P.A., dated Tth November i955. 
4004615.1১.4.১ dated 7th November 1955. 
45048E.P.A., dated 7th November 1958. 
46050E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46052E.P.A., duted 7th November 1955. 
46054E.P.A., dated 7th November 1935. 
4605G6E.P.A., dated Tth November 1955. 
46058E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46060E.P.A., dated 7th November 1950. 
46062E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
46064E P.A., dated 7th November 1950. 
4606G6E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
AGU68E.P.A., dated 7th November 1990. 
A60T0E.P.A., dated 7th November ۰ 
460721.P.A., dated Tth November 1950. 
46074E.P.A., dated 7th November 1450. 
46076E P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46078K,.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
4G080E.P.A., dated 7th November 190. 
AGUSZE.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
4608415.P.A., dated Tth November 1994. 
4GO86K.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
4G088E.P.A., dated 7th November ۰ 
4GQQ0E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
4G6092E.P.A., dated 7th November 1954, 
4G0904E.P.A., dated Ith November 1955. 
460961.P.A., dated 7th November ۰ 
46098E.P.A., dated: 7th November 1955. 
AGIOOE.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
46102E.P.A., dated Tth November 1955. 
46104E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


1955 
19th October 1955 


3008 


(122) No. 
(123) No. 
(124) No. 
(125) No. 
(126) No. 
(127) No. 
(128) No. 
(129) No. 
(130) No. 
(131) No. 
(132) No. 
(133) No. 
(134) No, 
(135) No. 
(136) No 
(137) No. 
(138) No. 
(139) No. 
(140) No. 
(141) No. 
(142) No. 
(143) No. 
(144) No. 
842) No. 
146) No. 
(147) No. 
(148) No. 
(149) No. 
(150) No. 
(151) No. 
(152) No. 
(153) No. 
(154) No. 
(155) No. 
(156) No. 
(157) No. 
(158) No. 
(159) No. 
(160) No. 
(161) No. 
(162) No. 
(163) No. 
(164) No. 
(165) No. 
(166) No. 
(167) No. 
(168) No. 


(169) No. 
(170) No. 
(171) No. 
(172) No. 


(173) No. 
(174) No. 
(175) No. 
(176) No. 
(177) No 
(178) No. 
(179) No. 
(180) No. 


(181) No. 
(182) No, 
(183) No. 
(184) No, 
(185) No. 
(186) No. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 
পু vecesnestenasirensnnarasnaen اا۱‎ ٠سر‎ Wee rene sea a reer 


46146U.P.A., 
46148E.P.A., 
46150E.P.A., 
46162E.V.A., 
4G154E.P.A., 
461950111১4. 
AGI58E.P.A., 
46160E.P.A., 
46162E.P.A., 
46164E.P.A., 
46308E.P.A., 
4G310E.P.A., 
46312E.P.A., 
40314171১1১. 
46316E.P.A., 
46318E.P.A., 
46320E.P.A., 
46322E.P.A., 
46324E.P.A., 
46326E.P.A., 
46328E.P.A., 
46344E.P.A., 
4C306E.P.A., 


46106E.P.A., 
46108E.P.A., 


4H110E.P.A., 
46112E.P.A.,, 
46114E.P.A., 
461L16E.1P.A., 
46118E.P.A., 
46120K.P.A., 
46122E.P.A., 
460124171১4 
461567.17.8 71 
46128H.P.A., 
46130E.).A., 
46132E.).A., 
40134E.P.A., 
46136E.P.A., 
46138E.P.A., 
4G140E.P.A., 
46142E.P.A., 
46144E.P.A., 
46266K.1.A., 
46268E.P.A., 
46270E.P.A., 
46272E.P.A., 
46274E.P.A., 
46276K.P.A., 
462781.P.A., 
46780E.).A., 
46782E.).A., 
46284E.. PA, 
46286H.P.A., 
4628810.P.A., 
41650015-1148- 
40292.71”. 48. 
46294E.P.A., 
40200[4.[1 ھ.‎ 
46298KE.P.A., 
40)007,7.8 
40۷۷21. رن۵‎ 
4004 [1.7 ۸۰۰ 
40346011.1১.4..) 
40548 15-15,48 


dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1956. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th N ovember 1955. 
dated 7th November 1956. 
dated 7th November 1956. 
dated 7th November 1950, 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th Novemher 5۰ 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1956. 
dated 9th November 1986. 
dated 9th November 5۰ 
dated 9th November 1955. °’ 
dated 9th November 195d. 
dated 9th November 1956. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1965. 
dated 9th November 1945. 
dated 9th November 1955. 


dated 7th Noveinber ۰. 
dated 7th November 1955. 


dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1956. 
dated 7th November 195d. 
dated 7th November 5۰ 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 195d. 
dated 7th November 5۰ 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 5۰ 
dated 7th November 195d. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 7th November 1956. 
dated 7th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955, 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1956, 
dated 9th November ۰ 
dated 9th November 1950. 
dated 9th November 1958. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1959. 


dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th: November 1995. 
dated 9th November 1955. 


ক 


(187) No. 
(188) No. 
(189) No. 
(190). ০, 
(191) No. 
(192) No. 
(193) No. 
(194) No. 
(195) No. 
(196) No. 
(197) No. 
(198) No. 
(199) No. 
(2060) No. 
(201) No. 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
(206) No, 
(207) No. 
(208) No. 
(°09) No. 
No. 
No. 


(202) 
(203 
an) 
(205 


(2111 
(211 


46350E.P.A., 
40152[0.18 
4G354E.P.A., 
AG356E.P.A., 
46358E.P.A., 
46360E.).A., 
463027 .[7 رھ‎ 
40364E.P.A., 
46366E.7.A., 
46368E.P.A., 
46370E.P.A.. 
46372E.P.A., 
A6374E.P.A.. 
46376E.P.A., 
46378K.P.A.. 


46380E.P.A., 
46382E.P.A.. 
46384E.P.A.. 
46330E.P.A.. 
46332E.P.A.., 
46334E.P.A.. 
46336E.P.A.. 
46338E.P.A.. 
46340E.P.A.. 
46342E.P.A.. 


Parr I 


dated 9th November 1909. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
duted 9th November 1955, 
dated 9th November 1999, 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1954, 
dated 9th Novomber 5۰ 
dated 9th November 5۰ 
dated 9th Novemher 5۰ 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 5۰ 
dated 9th November 1955. 


dated 9th November 1956. 
dated 9th November 1956. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1945. 
dated 9th Novemher 1956. 
dated 9th November 1955۰ 
dated 9th November 1955. 
dated 9th November 1005. 


Notice is hereby given that the Evacuee Property 
Management Committee for West Bengal constitut- 
ed under sub-section (1) of section 11 of the West 
Bengal Evacuee Property Act, 1951 (West Bengal 
Act V 01 1951), propose to take charge of the eva- 
cuee property / properties described in the Schedule 
below under the provisions of clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 17 of the said Act. 


Any person interested in the property / properties 
who has any objection to the taking charge of the 


property/properties by the Committee may file 
objection in writing before the Committee 


at its 


office at Writers’ Buildings within 30th March, 


1956. 


(3) No. 45616E..P.A., dated 
J. L. No, 6, Khatian No. 488, Plot No. 


The Schedule. 

(A) DISTRICT NADIA. 

(2) Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza ۰ 
(1) No. 45612E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 

J. I. No. 6, Khatian No. 326, Plot No, 2824, 
Area .42, Owner—Shri Tachmir Sarder. 
(2) No. 45614E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 

J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 26, Areas .05, .05, .05, 
against Plots Nos. 3143, 3144, 3145, respectively, 
Owner—Shri Naim ہ۸10‎ ۰ প 


19th October 1955. 


2310, 


Area .27, Owner—Shri Chaidali., 


(4) No. 45618E.P.A., dated 19th October 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No, 1319, Plot No. 
.39, Owner—Shri Durlav Mondal. 


Area 


(5) No. 45620E.P.A., dated 19th 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 978, Plot No. 


1969. 
2164, 


1988. 
249), 


October 


Area .45, Owner—-Shri Achhadali Mondal. 


(6) No. 45622K.P.A., dated 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No, 950, Plot No. 


1955. 
2319, 


19th October 


Area .18, Owner—Shri Hiru Mondal. 


(7) No. 45624E.P.A., dated 19th October 
J, L. No. 6, Khatian No. 970/1, Plot No. 


1955. 
2294, 


Area .23, Owner—Shri Taleb Mahita. 


(8) No, 45626H.P.A., dated 
J. 1), No. 6, Khatian No. 199, Plot No. 


1955. 
2189, 


19th October 


Area ,1], Owner—-Shri Kuran Mondal. 


(9) No. 45628K.P.A., dated 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 281, Plot No. 


1969. 
2188, 


19th October 


Area .10, Owner—Shri Choorat Mondal. 


Part 1]‏ 
aa‏ تی تہ تسس ۳7:۳صیی۳۳ی01۳ج> ہے 


é 

(10) No. 45630E.P.A., dated 19th October 1956. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 311, Plot No. 3446, 

Area .14, Owner—Shri Tachhim Sardar, 

(11) No. 45682E.P.A., dated 19th October 1965. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 972, Plot No. 2384, 

Area 1.64, Owner—Shri Tinkari Mandal. 

(12) No. 45634E.P.A., dated 19th October 19655. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1948, Plot No. 1814, 

Area .25, Owner—Shri Nasim Mandal. 

(13) No. 45636E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No, 6, Khatian No. 521, Plot No. 9989, 

Area .21, Owner—Shri Ochhman Biswas. 

(14) No. 45638E.P.A., dated 19th October 5۰ 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1828, Plot No. 3983, 

Area .19, Owner—Shri Nachhur Mandal. 

(15) No. 45640E.P.A., dated 19th October 1959. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 764, Plot No. 38972, 

Area .28, Owner—Shri Bhilla Mandal. 

(16) No. 45642E.P.A., dated 19th October 1956. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 727, Plot No, 3966, 

Area 1.19, Owner—Shri Chhobalan Biswas. 

(17) No. 45644E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 

\J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 768, Plot No, 3900, 

Area .30, Owner—Shri Deraj Mandal 

(18) No. 45646E.P.A., dated 19th October 5۰ 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 38, Plot No. 687, 

Arena .25, Owner—Shri Achhiraddin Mandal. 

(19) No. 45648E.)P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 409, Plot No. 559, 

Area .82, Owner—Shri Din Mahammad Sarder. 

(20) No. 45650KF.P.A., dated 19th October 1950. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1336, Areas .77, .56, 

1.09, against Plots Nos. 1697, 1699, 1700, respec- 

tively, Owner—Shri Mafizaddin Mandal. 

(21) No. 45652E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1991) Plot No. 1973, 

Area .61, Owner—Shri Chhepatullya Mondal. 

(22) No. 45654E.P.A., dated 19th October 1959. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 331, Plot No. 3476, 

Area .29, Owner—Shri Tachhim Sarder. 

(23) No. 45656E.P.A., dated 19th October 1950. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No, 143, Plot No. 3004, 

Area .60, Owner—Shri Mohan Mandal. 

(24) No. 45658E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No, 6, Khatian No. 406, Plot No. 3002, 

Area .40, Owner—Shri Din Mahammad Sarder. 

(25) No. 45660E.P.A., dated 19th October 1989, 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1144, Plot No. 2548, 

Area 1.73, Owner—Shrimati Abijan Bibi. 

(26) No. 45662E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. lL. No. 6, Khatian No. 997, Plot No. 2644, 

Area .44, Owner—Shrimati Debbya Bewa. 

(27) No. 45664E.P.A., dated 19th October 1958. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No, 142, Plot No. 2561, 

Area .25, Owner—Shri Edbar Shaikh. 

(28) No. 45666K.P.A., dated 19th October 1956. 
J. I. No. 6, Khatian No. 988, Plot No, 2496, 

Area .37, Owner—Shri Mujamnul Mahammad. 

(29) No. 45668K.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 406, Plot No. 2557, 


Area .80, Owner—Shri Din Mahammad Sarder. 
(30) No. 46670K.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 600, Plot No. 2662, 
Area .20, UOwner—Shri Nabijaddin Mandal. 


Foe TS OTE ہی‎ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3069 


DEE জপ TEED جمو‎ পপ ৮ তা 


(31) No. 45672E.P.A., dated 19th October 1985. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 199, Plot No. 3010, 

Area .O7, Owner—Shri Chhabedali Mondal. 

(92) No. 45674E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 644, Plot No. 3148, 

Area .05, Owner—Shm Dibbya Bibi. 

(33) No. 45676E.P.A., dated 19th October 5۰ 


J. .ما‎ No. 6, Khatian No. 814, Plot No. 3146, 
Area ,10, Owner—Shri Hazari Mondal. 


(34) No. 45678E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 966, Plot No. 2509, 
Area .32, Owner—Shri Jitu Mondal. 


(35) No. 45680E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1336, Plot No. 2125, 
Area .49, Owner—Shri Mafijaddin Mondal. 


(386) No. 45682E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 836, Plot No. 2018, 

Area 1.41, Owner—Shrimati Sukeshi Dashi, 

(37) No. 45684E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. .را‎ No. 6, Khatian No. 828, Plot No. 1816, 

Area .96, Owner—Shri Rup Chand Mondal. 

(38) No. 45686E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1336, Plot No. 2187, 

Area .72, Owner—Shri Mafijaddin Mondal. 

(39) No. 45688E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
এ. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 121, Plot No. 2141, 

Area .81, Owner—Shri Ahammed Mondal. 


(40) No. 45690E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 438, Plot No. 1925, 
Area .30, Owner—Shri Hasari Mondol. 


(41) No. 45692E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 533, Area .40, .35, 
46, .46, against Plot Nos. 1089, 2210, 2216, 2217 


respectively, Owner—Shri Nengai Biswas. 
(42) No. 45694E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 5338, Areas .11, .22, .23 
against Plots Nos. 2173, 2537, 263, respectively, 
Owner—Shrimati Nistaraneebha Bibi. 


(48) No. 45696E.P.A., dated 19th October 1956. 
J. i. No. 6, Khatian No. 349, Plot No. 2177, 


Area .25, Owner—Shri Tinkari Mondal. 
(44) No. 45698E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. ہا‎ No. 6, Khatian No, 787, Plot No. 2222, 
Areu .24, Owner—Shri Mati Mondal. 
(45) No. 45700E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No, 6, Khatian No. 9538, Plot No. 2607, 
Area .49, Owner—Shri Maim Mondal, 
(46) No. 45702K.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. ہا‎ No. 6, Khatian No. 199, Plot No. 3011, 
Area .17, Owner—Shri Kuran Mondal. 


(47) No, 45704E.P.A., dated 19th October 1925. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 1215, Plot No. 3346, 

Area .15, Owner—Shrimati Kadbhanu Bibi. 

(48) No. 4570GE.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 728, Plot No. 3348, 

Area .23, Owner—Shri Batul Tarafdar. 

(49) No. 45708E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 624, Plot No. 3165, 
Area .381, Owner—Shri Fakir Chand Mondal. 


(50) No. 45710E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. ہا‎ No. 6, Khatian No. 966, Plot No. 3166, 
Area .19, Owner—Shri Jitu Mondal. 


8070 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


(Parr I 


مب سر می صصح تحص পা NT‏ 


(21) No, 45712E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No, 21, Plot No. 3167, 

Area .14, Owner—Nhri Achhadullya. 

(92) No, 46714E.P.A., dated 19th Octoher 1955. 
J. I. No. 6, Khatian No. 903, Plot No. 3168, 

Area .24, Owner—Shri Naim Mondal, 

(63) No. 45716K.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 369, Plot No. 2488, 

Area .29, Owner—Shri Daud Mondal. 

(94) No. 45718E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 34, Plot No. 3211, 
Area .62, Owner—Shri Achhad Mondal. 


(65) No. 45720E.P.A., dated 19th October 1956. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 278, Plot No. 3330, 
Area .69, Owner—Shri Jamat Mondal. 


(96) No. 45722E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 895, Plot No. 2315, 
Area .15, Owner—Shri Harip Mondal. 


(57) No. 45724E.P.A., dated 19th October 19565. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 950, Plot No. 2565, 
Area .06, Owner—Shri ۱11111 Mondal. 


(58) No. 45726E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 916, Plot No. 2566, 
Area .U9, Owner—Shri Hazari Mondal. 


(59) No. 45728E.P.4., dated 19th October 1955. 


J. L. No. 6, Khatian No. 965, Plot. No. 3344, 
Area .69, Owner—Shri Rajabali Mondal. 


(60) No, 45730E.P.A., dated 19th October 1955. 
J. L. No.6, Khatian No, 768, Plot No. 2569, Area. 

.54, Khatian No. 768, Plot No. 3009, Area No. .29, 

Khatian No. 1448, Plot No. 3025, Area. .49, Owner— 

Shri Moti Mondal. 

(61) No. 49124E.P.A., dated 12th October 1989, 


(21) Policestation Chapra, Mauza Damodarkhali. 


J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 92, Plot Nos. 97, 98, 
Ownersa—Shri Babu Mondal and others. 


(62) No, 45986E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 


Ranaghat, Mauza Ber 
Kamgachi. 

J. L No. 10, Khatian No, 27, Plot No. 336, 
Area .49, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and thers, 


(63) No. 45988H.P.A., dated 7th November ۰ 


J. I. No. 10, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 334, 
Area .64, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 


(64) No. 45990E.P.A., dated 7th November 19565. 
J. Gi. No 10, Khatian No. 85, Plot No. 342/ 

666, Area .12, Owner—Shri Mochu Biswas. 

(65) No. 45992E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
J. i, No. 10, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 342, 

Area .17, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 

(66) No, 459944.P.A., dated 7th November 1995. 
J. I. No. 10, Khatian No. 37, Plot No. 326, 

Area .12, Owner—Shri Montaz Mondal. 

(67) No, 45996E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 16, Plot No. 326, 

Area .14, Owners—Shrimati Mahiram Bibi and 

others. 

(68) No. 45998E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
J. I, No. 10, Khatian No. 16, Plot No. 319, 

Area .27, Owners—-Shrimuti Mahiram J3ibi and 

others. 

(69) No. 46000E.P.A., dated 7th November 1986. 
J. ما‎ No, 10, Khotian No. 27, Plot No, 918, 

۸۲۰۱۰۸ .67, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 

(70) No. 46002E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. ا‎ No. 10, Khatian No, 37, Plot No. 317, 

Area .41, Owner—Shri Montaz Mondal. 


(iz) Police-station 


(71) No. 46004E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. .ہا‎ No. 10, Khatian No. 48, Plot No. 316, 
Area .30, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 
(72) No. 4600GE.P.A., dated 7th November 5۰ 
J. ملا‎ No. 10, Khatian No. 43, Plot No. 268, 
Area .49, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others, 
(73) No. 46008E.P.A., dated 7th November 1965. 
J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 48, Plot No. 262, 
Area .15, Owners—Shrimati Mahiram Bibi and 
others, 
(74) No. 46010K.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 261, 
Area .21, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 
(75) No. 46012E.P.A., dated 7th November 1965. 
J. I. No. 10, Khatian No. 8, Plot No. 208, 
Area .33, Owners—Shri Aziz Mondal and others. 
(76) No. 46014E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. 15. No. 10, Khatian No. 49, Plot No. 207, 
Area .64, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 
(77) No. 46016E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
J. ا‎ No. 10, Khatian No. 16, Plot No. 175, 
Area .42, Owners-—Shri Badal Mondal and others. 
(78) No. 46018K.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. Ll. No. 10, Khatian No. 76, Plot No. 178, 
Area .27, Owners—Shrimati Mahiram Bibi and 
others. 
(79) No. 46020E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 37, Plot No. 100, 
Area .48, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 
(80) No. 46022E.P.A., dated Tth November 1955. 
J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 99, 
Area .48, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others, 
(81) No. 46024E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 37, Plot No. 44, 


Area .30, Owners—Shri Montaz Mondal and others. 


(82) No. 46026E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
(1%) Police-station Tehatta, Mauza Krishnagar. 
J. 1. No. 46, Khatian No. 284, Plot No. 783, 
Area .19, Owner—Shri Kafi Mondal. 
(83) No. 46028E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
J. I. No. 46, Khatian No. 139, Plot No. 789, 
Area .58, Owner—Shri Sayed. 
(84) No. 46030E.P.A., dated 7th November 1055۰ 
J. Js. No. 46, Khatian No. 365, Plot No. 783, 
Area .22, Owners—Shri Sayed and others. - 
(85) No. 46032E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
J. J. No. 46, Khatian No. 298, Areas .38, .d] 
against Plot Nos. 790, 791, respectively, Owner— 
Shri Sayed. 
(86) No, 46034H.P.A., dated 7th November 5۰ 
J. ا‎ No. 46, Khatian No. 166, Plot No. 760, 
Area .65, Owner—Shri Jabani 1] ۰ 
(87) No. 46036E.P.A., dated 7th November 1155. 


J. I. No. 46, Khatian No. 158, Plot No. 709, 
Arena .18, Owner—Shri Sobahan Mondal. 


(88) No. 46038E.P.A., dated 7th November 196. 
J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 135, Plot No. 707, 

Area .17, Owner—Shri Md. Chandra Mondal. 

(89) No. 46040E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
J. 15 No. 46, Khatian No. 165, Plot No. 782, 

Area .18, Owner—-Shri Jabani ۲۰ 

(90) No. 46042E.P.A., dated %th November 1905. 


J. h. No. 46, Khatian No. 402, Plot No. 761, 
Area .39, Owner—Shri Basiruddin. 


Parr J] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


1011 


ইউপি পট পাউউপপউউপ্উ৬-০২পা 
৮ 


(91) No. 46044E.P.A 


J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 1389, Plot No. 796, 
Area .81, Owner—Shri Md. Chandra Mondal. 


(92) No. 46046K.P.A., dated Tth November ۰ 
Plot No. 788, 


J. Ja No. 46, Khatian No. 119, 
Area .86, Owner—Shrimuati Solemannessa, 
(93) No. 46048E.P.A 


J. 14, 
Area .16, Owner—Shri Junab Mondal. 


(94) No. 46050E.P.A., dated 7th November 1959. 
No. 46, Khatian No. 168, Plot No. 785, 


J. 1, 
Area .23, Owner—Shri Jabani Shaik. 
(95) No. 46052E.P.A 

J. ہا‎ No. 46, Khatian No. 
Area .21, Owner—Shri Akkas Shaik. 
(96) No. 46054E.P.A 

J. lL, No. 46, Khatian No, 180, 


Area .15, Owner—Shri Junab Mondal. 


(97) No. 46056E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
Plot No. 802, 


No. 46, Khation No. 66, 
rent 33, Owner—Shri Idu Molla. 


(98): No. 46058E.P.A., dated 7th November 1938. 


J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 70, Plot No. 3 
Area .20, Owner—Shri Imani. 


(99) No. 46060K.P.A., dated 7th November 195d. 
Plot No. 809, 


J. 1. No. 46, Khatian No. 170, 
Area .26, Owner—Shri Jabbar Mondal. 


(100) No. 46062E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
No. 46, Khatian No. 250, Plot No. 801, 


নু 1 
Area .34, Owner—Shri ۰ 


(101) No. 46064E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. .ا‎ No. 46, Khatian No. 299) Plot No, 792, 


Area .387, Qwner—Shri ۰ 
(102) No. 46066BR.P.A 


Area .12, Qwner—Shri Munsar Mondal. 


(109) No. 46068E.P.A., dated 7th November 1950. 


J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 293, Plot No. 758, 
Area .14, Owner—Shri Nakari Mondal, 


(104) No. 46070E.P.A., dated 7th November 1029, 
Plot No. 765, 


J. Ju. No. 46, Khatian No. 185, 
Area .39, Owner—Sh1i Md. Chandra Mondal. 


(105) No. 46072E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
No. 46, Khatian No. 299, Plot No. 751, 


Jd. I. 
Area .16, Owner—Shri Mojahar Mondal. 


(106) No. 46074K.P.A., dated 7th November 195. 
J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 119, Plot No. 782, 


Area .123, Owner—Shri Neaj Mondal. 


(107) No. 46076K.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 
228, Plot No. 737, 


J. lL. No. 46, Khatian No. 
Area .29, Owner—Shri Nazar Shaik. 


(108) No. 46078E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. 14. No. 46, Khatian No. 160, Plot No. 728, 
Area .40, Owner—Shri Khudi Mondal. 


(109) No. 46080E.P.A., dated 7th November 13), 
Plot No. 729, 


J. 1). 


No. 46, Khatian No. 240, 
Area 


১83) Owner—Shri Nazir Shaik Gharami, 


(110) No. 46082E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 135, Plot No. 723, 
Area 1.66, Owner--Shri Nazar Mondal. 


., dated 7th November 1955. 


.. dated 7th Noevmber 195d. 
No. 46, Khatian No. 180, Plot No. 775, 


., dated 7th November 195d. 
30, Plot No. 787, 


., dated 7th November 1955. 
Plot No. 776, 


.. dated 7th November 1955. 
J. 14. No. 46, Khatian No. 268, Plot No. 756, 


(112) No. 460861.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. ما‎ No. 46, রা No. 185, Plot No. 719, 
Area .48, ( Ywner—Shri Md. Chandra Mondal. 
(113) No. 46088K.P.A., dated 7th November sas 


J. I. No. 46, Khatian No. 128, Areas 62, 
against Plot Nos, 698, 717, resepc tively, ৩ 
Shri Mukbul, 

(114) No. 46090E.P.A., dated 7th November 1965. 

J. I. No. 46, Khatian No. 128, Plot No. 697, 
Area .67, Owner—Shri Mukbul. 

(110) No. 46092E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 

J. 15. No. 46, Khatian No. 240, Plot No. 695, 
Area .42, Owner—Shri Nazir Shaik. 

(116) No. 46094E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 

J. 15. No. 46, 950 No. 293, Plot No. 691, 
Area .31, Owner—Shri Mojahar Karikar. 

(117) No 46096E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 

J. Is. No. 46, Kinien No. 175, Plot No. 684, 
Area .26, Ow ner—Shri Mojahar Karikuar, 

(118) No. 46098F.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 

J. .ا‎ No. 46, Khatian No. 293, Plot No. 679, 
Area .39, Owners—Shri Sayed and others. 

(119) No. 46100E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 

J. Ts No. 46, Khatian No. 293, Plot No. 680, 
Area .21, Owners—Shri Sayed and others, 

(120) No. 46102K.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 

J. J. No. 46, Whats No. 240, Plot No. 670, 
Area _ .67, Owner—Shri Nazir. 

(121) No. 46104E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. LL. No. 46, "0 Nos. 135, 298, Areas 42, 
.89 against Plot Nos. 666, 669, respectively, Owner 
—Shri Sayed. 


(B) DISTRICT 24-PARGANAS. 


(2) Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza Matkol. 


(122) No. 46146E.P.A., dated 7th November 195d. 
J. ہا‎ No. 15, Khatian No. 487, Plot No. 915, 

Area .35, Owner—Shrimati Soleman Bibi. 

(123) No. 46148E.P.A., dated 7th November 1965. 
J. 15. No. 7, Khatian No. 428, Plot No. 879, 

Area 3.05, Owner—Shri Kanchan Munshi. 

(124) No. 46150E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 402, Plot No. 724, 

Area .64, Owner—Shri Rahim Mondal. 

(125) No. 46152E.P.A., dated 7th November 1958. 
J. نا‎ No. 7, Khatian No. 410, Plot No. 1186, 

Area .20, Owner—Shri Mojahar Mondal. 

(126) No. 46154E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 428, Plot No. 879, 

Area 3.05, Owner—hri Kanchan Munshi. 

(127) No. 46156E.P.A., dated Tih November 1955. 
J. .ا‎ No. 7, Khatian No. 628, Plot No. 916, 

Area .19, Owner—Shrimati Soleman 3161. 

(128) No. 46158E.P.A., dated Tth November 1955. 


J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 649, Plot No. 909, 
Area .30, Owners—Shri Meherali Mondal ond 
others. 


(129) No. 4G160E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. 1). No. 7, Khatian No. 460, Plot No. ۰ 
Area .25, Owners—Shri Moshum Mondal and 
others. 


(130) No. 46162E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


(111) No, 46084E.P.A., dited 7th November 19565, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 235, Plot No. 809, 
J. i. No. 46, Khatian No. 174, Plot No. 722, Area .26, Owners—Shri Chatoo Lal Laskar and 
Area .85, Owner—Shri Md, ‘anak; Karikar, others. 


8072 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


j Part J 


aot 3 St 


(131) No. 461645.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. i. No. 7, Khatian No. 387, Plot No. 1412, 
Area .24, Ow ner—NShrimati Nasiran Bibi, 


(132) No. 46808E.P.A., dated 9th November 1009, 


J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 286, Plot No. 1192, 
۸+ .26, Owner—Shri Suber Mondal. 


(133) No. 46310K.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


1.1. No. 7, Khatian No. 315, Plot No. 1191, 
Aren .46, Owners—Shri Subder Mondal and others. 


4194) No. 46312E.P.A., dated 9th November 1962. 


7.1. No. 7, Khatian No. 462, Plot No. 1182, 
Area .68, Qwner—Shri Robbani Mondal. 


(135) No. 46314E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. U.. No. 7, Khatian No. 468, Plot No. 1161, 
Area .74, Owner—Shri Makim Laskar. 


(136) No. 46316E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. .ا‎ No. 7, Khatian No. 618, Plot No. 160, 
Area .84, Owner—Shri Muchilon Mondal. 


(137) No. 46318E.P.A., dated 9th November 1956. 


J. I. No. 7, Khatian No. 547, Plot No. 1110, 
Area .21, Owner—Shri Ajit Mondal. 


(138) No. 463820K.P.A., dated 9th November 195d. 


J ae ০০, 7, Khatian No. 290, Plot No. 1155, 
Area .22, Owner—Shr1 Karim Box Mondal. 


(139) No. 46322E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. I. No. 7, Khatian No. 648, Plot Ne. 1153, 
art 24, Owners—Shri Enatali Mondal and 
others. 


(140) No. 46324E.P.A., dated 9th November 5۰. 


J. I. No. 7, Khatian No. 627, Plot No. 1152, 
Area .23, Owner—Shri Abdul Sovan Mondal, 


(141) No. 46826E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. I. No. 7, Khatian No 483, Plot Ne. 1145, 
Area .55, Owner—Shri Golam Rahaman Mondal. 


(142) No. 46328E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. I. No. 7, Khatian No. 291, Plot No. 1138, 


Area 14) Owner—Shrimati Soleman Bibi, 
(143) No. 46344E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. ا‎ No. 7, Khatian No. 322, Plot No. 1137, 
Area .10, Owner—Shri Sabarali Mondal. 


(144) No. 46306E.9P.A., dated 9th November 19565. 


J. L. No 7, Khatian No. 547, Plot No. 1111, 
Area .18, Owner—Shri Haran Mondal, 


(71) Police-station Jagatdal, Mauza Bidyadharpur. 


(145) No. 46106E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J ۱. No. 17, Khatian No. 170, Plot N 312, 
Area .08, Owner- Shri Goldar Molla. ‘ is 


(146) No. 46108E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 170, Plot No. 313, 
Area .07, Owner—Shri Belati Molla. 


(147) No. 46110K.P.A., dated 7th November 1965. 


J. Ju. No. 17, Khatian No. 170, Plot No. 315, 
Area .08, Owner—Shri Mohammad Molla. 
(148) No. 46112E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 


J. 1). No. 17, Khatian No. 166, Plot No. 949, 
ae -79, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal ond 
others. 


(149) No. 46114E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 171, Plot No. 350, 
Area .77, Owner—Shri Mojahar Mondal. 


(150) No. 46116E.P.A., dated 7th November 195d. 


J. 1. No. 17, Khatian No. 172, Plot No. 644, 
Area 1.08, Owner—Shri Mohorali Shek. 


(151) No. 46118E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956, 


J. I. No. 17, Khatian No. 164, Plot No. 207, 
Area .14, Owners—Shri Goldar Molla and others. 


(152) No. 46120E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 210, 
নন .O1, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal and 
others. 


(153) No. 46122E.P.A., dated Tth November 1955. 


J. ا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 20], 
Area 1.39, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal and 


others. 


(154) No. 46124E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955 


J. 14. No. 17, Khatian No. 166, Plot No. 420, 
سا‎ .08, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal and 
others. 


(155) No. 46126E.P.A., dated 7th November 1356. 
J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 170, Plot No. 310, 


Area ر37.‎ Owners—Shri Mojahar Monda] and 
others, রি 


(156) No. 46128E.P.A., dated 7th November 1999. 


J. V. No. 17, Khatian No. 170, Plot No. 211, 
Area .25, Owners—Shri Phatick Molla and others. 
(157) No. 46130E.P.A., dated 7th November 1950. 

J. T. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 221, 
Area .81, Owner—Shri Oajedali Molla. 


(158) No. 46132E.P.A., dated 7th November 1966. 


J. I. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 222, 
Area .34, Owner—Shri Fakir Molla. 


(159) No. 46134E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955 


J. I. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 223, 
Area .2(), Owners—Shri Phatick Molla and others. 


(160) No. 46136E.P.A., dated 7th November 1950 


J. i. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 224 
Area .19, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal = ond 
others. 


Parr 1] 


(161) No. 46188E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 


J. lL. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 286, 
Area .14, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal and 
others. 

(162) No. 46140E.P.A., dated 7th November 1956. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 166, Plot No. 519, 
Area .90, Owners—Shri Mojahur Mondal and 
others. 


(163) No. 46142E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. L No. 17, Khatian No. 168, Plot No. 419, 

Area .61, Owners—Shri Mojahar Mondal and 

others. 

(164) No. 46144E.P.A., dated 7th November 1955. 
J. I. No. 17, Khatian No. 119, Plot No. 284, 

Area .89, Owner—Shri Gafur Shek. 

(165) No. 46266K.1.A., dated 9th November 1955, 
J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 634, Plot No. 98, 

Area .88, Owners—Shri ٥. K. Musa and others. 

(166) No, 46268K.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. .ا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 672, Plot No. 218, 

Area .92, Owner—Shri Atarali Molla. 

(167) No. 462708.P.A., dated 9th Novemher 1955. 
J. ہا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 675, Plot No. 557, 

Area .27, Owner—Shri Tbhrahim Kazi. 

(168) No. 46272E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. ہا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 606, Plot No. 91, 

Area .43, Owner—Shri Golam Mavla 30 4۰ 

(169) No. 46274E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. 15. No. 17, Khatian No. 675, Flot No. 84, 

Area .19, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Kazi. 

(410) No, 46276K.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 675, Plot No. 71, 

Area .26, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Kazi. 

(171) No. 46278E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. 15. No. 17, Khatian No. 491, Plot No. 5 

Area .84, Owner—Shri Saiyedali Mondal. 

(172) No. 46780E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. 1. No. 17, Khatian No, 684, Plot No. 1059, 
Area 1.06, Owner—Shri Saiyedali Mondal. 


(173) No. 46782E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. ہا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 684, Plot No. 1057, 

Area .79, Owner—Shri Salyedali Mondal. 

(174) No. 46284E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 598 Plot No, 1034 
Area .23, Owner—Shri Sahadat Shek. | 


(175) No. 46286E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. 14. No. 17, Khatian No, 421 Plot No. ‘1 
17, Kh ۱ ۱ ১1401, 
Area .89, Shri Saivedali Mondal., | 
(176) No. 462886, P A., dated 9th November 1955. 
iss ].. No. 17, Khatinn No O76, 11601 No. 96, 
rea 39, Owner- Shri Alimohamad Kha. 
11177) No 4G200E.~ A., dated 9th November 1955. 


1 No RT, Khatian No. 667. P] tN 
Area .96, Owner -Shri Ee Shek. ہے سو‎ 


TUE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3073 


(178) No. 46292K.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. ےا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 662, Plot No. 1126, 
Area 247), Owner—Shri Fakir Mohammed Mondal. 


(179) No. 462941.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. ,ہا‎ No. 17, Khatian No. 675, Plot No. 557, 
Area .27, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Kazi. 


(180) No. 46296E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
JT. V4. No. 17, Khatian No. 681, Plot No. 250, 
Area .28, Owner—Shri Kachimaddin Molla. 


(181) No. 46298E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. I. No. 17, Khatian 681, Plot No, 249, 
Area .26, Owners—Shri Belatalhi Molla and 
others. 


(182) No. 46300K.9T.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. Ts. No. 17, Khatian No. 677, Plot No. 85, 
Area .18, Owner—Shri Rohimbox Shek. 
(183) No. 462302E.P.A., dated 9th November 19565. 


J. V. No. 17, Khatian No. 681, Plot No. 231, 
Area .31, Owners—Shri Belatali Molla and 
others. 


(184) No. 46304117 P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 676, Tlot No. 96, 


Area .89, Owner—Shri Alimohamad Kha. 

(185) No. 46346KE.P.A., dated 9th November 192), 
J. Wu. No. 17, Khatian No. 119, Plot No, 6850, 

Area .59 Owners—Shri Fasin Shek and others. 


(186) No. 46348E.I".A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. Tl. No. 17, Khatian No. 119, Plot No. 423, 
Area .80, Owner—Shri Gafar Shek. 
(187) No. 46350E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. Tu. No. 17, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 506, 
Area .10, QOwners—Shri Belatali Molla and 
others. 


(188) No. 46352E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. . No, 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 205, 
Area .41, Owner—Shri Oajed Ali Molla. 
- 
(189) No. 46354E.P.A., dated 9th November 1950. 


J. V. No. 17, Khatian No. 154, Plot No. 204, 
Area .21, Owners—Shri Fatih Molla and others. 


(190) No. 46356E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 150, Plot No. 562, 
Area .29, Owner—Shri Nabuali Zanmaddar, 


(191) No. 46358E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. . No. 17, Khatian No. 142, Plot No. 961, 
Area .43, Owner—Shri Ahedali Gazi. 


(192) No. 46360K.P.A., dated 9th November 195+. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 12, Plot No. 46, 
Area 1.18, Owner—Shrimati Goljan 1٠ 


(19%) No. 46362E.1.A., dated 9th November 1959, 


J. I No. 17, Khatian No. 128, Plot No, 458, 
Area .44, Owner—Shri Gafur ۱۰ 


(194) No, 1G364E.7P.A , dated 9th November 1956. 


J. L. No. 11, Khatian No. 125, Plot No. 131, 
Area 534) Owner Shri fiafur Moudal 


3014 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


‘Part I 


بحم ھھچھود چو روج جو جج ج2 حدم :- .جج 2ھھفم بد آحدعسموجصجتجحجم ھجوج تسا 


(195) No, 46366E.P.A., dated 9th November 1909. 
J. 1). No, 17, Khatian No. 124, Plot No. 464, 
Area .49, Owner—Shri Gafur Mondal. 


(196) No. 46368E.P.A., dated 9th November 1905. 


J. Is. No. 17, Khatian No. 123, Plot No. oo4, 
Area .33, Owner—Shri Gafur Mondal. 


(197) No. 46370F.P.A., dated 9th November 1991, 


9 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 119, Plot No. 284, 
Area .84, Owner—Shri Gafur Shek. 
(198) No. 46872K.P.A., dated 9th November 1956. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No, 108, Plot No. 219, 
Area .24, Owner—Shri Easin Mondal. 


(199) No. 46374K.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. L. No. 17, Khatian No, 101, Plot No. 8, 


Area .55, Owner—Shrimati Anesa Bibi. 

(200) No. 46376E.P.A., dated 9th November 19598. 
J. 1. No. 17, Khatian. No. 100/1, Plot No. 229, 

Area 1.02, Owner—Shrimati Gujrati Bibi. 

(201) No. 46378E.P.A., dated 9th November 1950. 
J. I. No. 17, Khatian No. 85, Plot No. 462, 

Area .40, Owner—Shri Gafur Mondal. ° 


(202) No. 46380E.P.A., dated 9th November ۰ 


J. ]।. No. 17, Khatian No. 50, Plot No. 49209), 
Area .07, Owners—Shri Belatali Molla and 
cthers. 


(203) No. 46382E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. I. No. 17, Khatian No. 49, Plot No. 292(), 
Area .07, Owners—Shri Fatik Molla and others. 


204) No, 46384E.P.A., dated 9th November 1956. 


J. L. No. 17, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 942, 
Area .34, Owners—Shri Goldar Molla and others. 


(205) No. 46830E.P.A.. dated 9th November 1955. 


e 


J. ہا‎ No. 3, Khatian No. 2, Plot No. 414, 
Area .31, Owner—Shrimati Fakman Bibi. 


(206) No. 463382E.7.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 3, Khatian No. 27, 1১10৮ No. 453, 
Area .68, Owner—Shri Esahuge Sardar. 


(207) No. 40334101۲۸۰. dated ھا9‎ November 1955. 


J. ہلا‎ No. 9, Khatian No. 27, Flot No. 407, 
Area .19, Owner—Shri Esahuque Sardar. 


(208) No. 46386E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. ہا‎ No. 3, Khatian No. 27, Plot No. 379, 
Area .15, Owner—Shri Esahuque Sardar. 


(209) No. 46338E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 


J. L. No. 3, Khatian No. 104, Plot No. 497, 
Area .06, Owner—Shri Badal Shek. 


(210) No. 46340E.P.A., dated 9th November 1955. 
J. L. No, 3, Khatian No. 8, Plot No. 496, 

Area .30, Owner—Shri Md. Esahuque Sardar. 

(211) No. 46342E.P.A., dated 9th November 1950. 


J. L. No. 38, Khatian No. 3, Plot No. 206, 
Area .89, Owner—Shri Md. Esahaque Sardar. 


By order of the 


Evacuee Property Management Committee 
or West Bengal, 


J. N. MOOKHERJ EE, 
Secretary to the Committee. 


pari 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3075 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 
ORDER 


No, 3191 Dis. of kab iat ra July 1956.—Whereas under the 
(jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3541 Dis./D/ 
11L-16/55, dated the 2nd August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Bengal Steam Laundry & Co., Ltd., Ritchie Road, Ballygunge, 
Caloutta-19, and their employees represented by Bengal Steafa Laundry 
Workers’ Union, 620 Ritchie Road, Bullygunge, Calcutta-19, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the 
Sixth Industrial Tribunal ; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government 109 award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Bengal 
Steam Laundry and Co., Lid., Ritchie Road, Ballygunge, Calcutta-19, 
and their employees represented by Bengal Steam Laundry Workers’ 
Union, 620 Ritchie Road, Ballygunge, Calcutta-19 (case No. 8۔۷۱۱‎ 
of 1955). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA. 
PRESENT: 
نت‎ SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Siath Industrial Tribunal. 
Disputes between Messrs. Bengal Steam Laundry & Co., Ltd., and their 
employees were referred by the Government of West Bengal, to this 


Tribunal by order No. 3641Dis./D/11L-16/55, dated Calcutta, the 2nd 
August 1955. 


The issues referred for adjudication are as follows :— 
(1) What should be the grades and scales? 


(2) What should be the dearness allowance ? 


The case being called for hearing parties informed the Tribunal that the 
disputes had been amicably settled and no differences remain outstanding. 
A petition was filed stating thut the reference was not pressed by the 
workers. A ‘‘no dispute’ award is accordingly passed. 


S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Sitth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 14th July 1956, 


By order of the Governor, 
1). ٥. ۶۰ MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


3076 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr 1 


ORDER 


No. 8226Dis./D/10L-32/56.—25th July 1956.——Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2586) is. /D | 
91.-9715), dated the 8th June 1959, read with its corrigendum No. d20oDis. | 
))/9L-27/55, dated the 16th July 1955, the industrial dispute between Upper 
Fagu Tea Fstate, P.O. Fagu, Darjeeling, and their workmen represented 
by the West Bengal Cha-Sramik Union, Jalpaiguri, regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Fifth 
Industrial Tribunal ; 

And whereas the said Fifth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between the Upper Fagu Tea 
Estate, P.O. Fagu, Darjeeling, and their workmen represented by the 
West Bengal Cha-Sramik Union, Jalpaiguri, 


BEFORE THE FIFTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT : 
Snr G. PALIT, Judge, Industrial Tribunal (Fifth), West Bengal. 


For the Company: Shri T. Sen Gupta, General Adviser of the Company. 
For the Union: Shri D. L. Sen Gupta, Advocate. 


1. By Government order No. 2586Dis. /D/9L-27/55, dated the 8th June 
1955, the aforesaid dispute has been referred to the Fifth Industrial Tribunal, 
resided over by me, for adjudication under section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947). The said Fifth Industrial Tribunal was 
cfustituted under section 7 of the Act by the notification No. .ناہ85811‎ 
dated the 9th June 1951. 


2. The reference was received here on 15th June 1955. The Union filed 
written statement on 8th July 1955, and the Company filed written objection 
on 22nd August 1955. After severa] adjournments the case was taken up 
for hearing on 1111) June 1956, and it continued till 14th June 1956 when 
the oe including the argument was concluded. The award was 
reserved. 


3. The issue contained in the schedule to the order of reference stands 
as follows سے‎ 


Whether the Upper Fagu Tea Estate under the management of Messrs. 
“ Padma, Ltd., from 6th March 1955 should be treated as a 
Darjeeling Hill Garden or Dooars Garden? What should be the 

rates of wages.of the workers of the garden from 6th March 1955? 


AWARD 


4. Before I discuss the issue specifically, I should like to preface it by 
a short history of the dispute. Originally the Fagu Tea Estate comprised 
both the Upper Fagu and the Lower Fagu. It is as ancient as 100 years, 
and it partly fell in the district of Darjeeling and partly in Jalpaiguri. 
It was under the management of British planters, and continued as such till 
6th March 1955 when it changed hands and the present management came 


part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 95 1956 3077 
a 
(9 own the Upper Magu Tea Estate. Though the Upper Fagu fell in the 
district of Darjeeling, still it was classified and treated as a Dooars Tea 
Garden. The rates of wages which were given in the Upper Fagu Tea 
state wore the rates in Dooars Tea Gardens. The Minimum Wages Com- 
miliee, West Bengal, in the year 1902 divided the whole plantation area. 
‘nto three divisions, and fixed the rates thereof. Those three divisions were, 
vit 

(a) the hilly area of the Darjeeling district, 

(v) Terai area in the plains of Darjeeling district in the Siliguri and 

Kurseong subdivisions, and 
(c) the Dooars area in the Jalpaiguri district, 


{Though the Dooars area was limited to the eastern side of the river Teesta, 
yet the Dooars Tea Crardens comprised also the tea gardens in the ‘‘non- 
hilly’ areas of Darjeeling, gardens in the plantation area in the district 
of Cooch Behar, and also gardens in the plantation area in the district of 
Jalpaiguri lying on the west of the river Teesta. So, according to the 
Union, Dooars Tea Gardens were comprehensive enough and practically 
comprised the residuary plantation area, barring the aforesaid three divisions 
as mentioned in the report of the Minimum Wages Committee, West Bengal. 
In this concept the Upper Fagu Tea Estate fell within the class of Dooars 
Tea Gardens, though وھ حم‎ in the Kalimpong subdivision of the 
Darjeeling district. But the present management, as soon as they took over 
the ten garden on 6th March 195d, supplanted the Dooars rates of wages 
by the Darjeeling hilly area rates of wages which were much less. This 
resulted in a dispute which was referred to conciliation, but the Company 
lid,not abide by the decision of the said conciliation proceeding, and 
intrbduced the Darjeeling rates of wages. Hence has arisen the present 


diapute. 


he Company contends that the Upper Fagu Tea Estate was situated 
in the hilly area of Kalimpong subdivision within the Darjeeling district. 
The previous management by mistake or inadvertence kept up the Dooars 
rates of wages in this Tea Estate. The present management did rectify this 
mistake with the result that the present dispute came into being. The 
present management, says the Company, cannot afford to pay or continue 
to pay the Dooars rates of wages because it proved to be an unprofitable Tea 
Estate. Its production is very small, and that is why the Government 
referred the dispute for decision with the idea that the Darjeeling Garden 
rates might be introduced here. 


During the hearing the Union made an amendment of their written state- 
ment by saying that the Lower T'agu Tea Hstate is also mn the district of 
Darjeeling, and not in the district of Jalpaiguri as originally stated. The 
other side, however, objected to it after the amendment was passed by the 
Tribunal. The Union could not produce any documentary evidence to 
show that really the Lower IFagu Tea Estate fell within the district of 
Darjeeling. Its motive to make this amendment is not far to seek. It is 
almitted that the Dooars rates of wages are still in vogue as before in the 
Lower Fagu Tea Estate under the European management. So, if the Dooars 
rates of wages are still being given in respect of a garden which falls within 
the ambit of Darjeeling district, then there can hardly be any point in 
denying the said privilege 10 the workmen of another garden which is 
geographically within the ambit of the said district. But both from the 
points of view of delay in moving this amendment, as also of want of 
evidence to substantiate it, I cannot attach much importance to this 
argument of the Union under the said amendment. So the dispute over the 
amendment should be at rest. 


3078 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr I 


The Union tried to. rely on tho three divisions adopted by the Minimum 
Wages Committee of West Bengal in 1982. The re evant portion of thy. 
report: occurs at page 7, and it runs thus: ‘The Committee has further 
decided with reference to section 8(3)(a)(iv) that minimuin wages should 
be fixed in respect of three zones or loralities, viz., (a) the Dooars area in 
Jalpaiguri district, (b) the Terai area in the plains of Darjecling 01800 
in the Siliguri and the Kurseong subdivisions, and (c) the hilly areas of 
Darjeeling district, these three areas boing described ordinarily as Dooars, 
Terai and Darjeeling, respectively, according to the prevailiug practice.”’ 


Now, the Company may argue that these were the divisions which the 
Minimum Wages Committee might have adopted for their work or for 
convenience, but that can never be accepted as a conventional classification 
of these three classes of gardens, viz., Dooars, Terai and Darjeeling. True 
enough. But in the said report it is mentioned that this was in conformity 
with the prevailing practice. The said Committee which met not only the 
planters, but also the Employees’ Unions, and toured through the area 
concerned, came to aC a that this was the practice current there. So, 
te say that it was not the prevailing practice, the onus is certainly heavy on 
the employer to displace the said Committee’s report on the point by clear 
and cogent evidence. Such evidence is, however, wanting, So I cannot 
but attach importance to this classification as adopted by the Minimum 
Wages Committee. Darjeeling gardens must be limited to hilly areas of 
the Darjeeling district. Unless such position can be shown it is difficult 10 
include the present Tea Estate in the class of Darjeeling gardens. It ig 
nobody’s case that the Upper Fagu Tea Kstate is in the Terai area as also 
in the Siliguri and Kurseong subdivisions. In this connection I have also 
to consider the fact that the European management had so long been 
treating the entire Upper Fagu and the Lower Fagu 1169, Estates as Dooars 
Tea Gardens. To brush it aside as the Company tried merely by saying 
that it was a mistake, or a piece of inadvertence, would be unconvincing. 
Secondly, 1-1 refer to the Assam Directory and Tea Areas Hand Book, 
1954, I find the Fagu Division being mentioned as ‘‘JJooars Gardens’’ at 
page 225. The Darjeeling Tea Companies are also mentioned in a separate 
chapter, but Fagu is conspicuous by its absence. So it is clear that Fagu 
was treated as a Dooars Tea Garden even in 1954. Then if I refer to the 
Calcutta Tea Market Report filed by the Union (Ext. 1), I find at page 7 
of it that the Fagu Tea Garden 1s mentioned there as a Dooars Tea Garden. 
Darjeeling Tea Gardens are mentioned under 0, separate heading, but Fagu 
is conspicuous by its absence there. This Calcutta Tea Market Report dates 
April and May 1956. So it is an up-to-date document to show that even in 
1956 May, the Fagu Garden was treated as a Dooars Tea Garden. So, it is 
abundantly clear that Fagu was all along treated as a Dooars Tea Garden, 
and not as a Durjeeling Tea Garden, and it is so right up to the present 
time. Now, what is the evidence that the Company has placed before me to 
displacé this accepted position of the Fagu Tea Garden? I should say, the 
evidence that has been produced is merely tentative, and hardly sufficient. 
The Company, by oral evidence, has wanted to show the elevation of the 
Upper Fagu Tea Estate thereby trying to show that it must be treated as a 
Darjeeling hill garden. But in the Assam Jirectory aforesaid which 
mentions the elevation of tea gardens in some cases, does not mention the 
elevation of the Fagu Division. That leads ine io think that its elevation 
is not such as is worth mentioning. Besides, I have got in evidence that 
only in some small spaces of the Upper Fagu there is some elevation, but 
the rest of the garden is more or Jess on level ground. So, mere elevation 
11) portions, unless there is average, will not go far enough. 


part 1] ']1[ CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3079 
oe ee ee ne A ee a are 

Net, the Company has shown that production in the Upper Fagu Tea 
state is much less than that in Dooars Gardens. Its production compares 
and likens to the production im Darjeeling hill gardens. That may or may 
not be, but it does not prove anything. The climate of this garden may 
very well be as that of other Darjeeling gardens because it is in the same 
rygion. So, the point of production can never be decisive in this matter. 
qhen it is said that the culling of tea leaves of the Upper Fagu Gardens is 
more like the tea leaves culling of Darjeeling Gardens than that of Dooars 
Gardens. But this also can never be the criterion of classification for being 
q Darjeeling hill garden. So I must say that the Company has bent its 
energies in a wrong direction in its attempt to displace the established 
conclusion in the matter which the Union has proved by reference to docu- 
mentary evidence and age-long custom. In view of this, ] am clearly of 
opinion that the Upper Fagu Tea Estate should be treated as a ‘‘Dooars 
Garden’’ and not as a ‘‘)arjeeling Garden’’. 


Regarding the rates of wages, I can at once say that the Dooars rates 
of wages must be granted here ay before because 1t 1s a Dooars Carden 
Fiven if it be ussumed for the sake of argument that the Upper Fagu Tea 
Estate is a Darjeeling hill garden, even then there are রনির which 
would lead me to grant Dooars rates of wages here, and those are as 
follows: 


7 These workmen had so long been enjoying the Dooars rates of wages. 
Simply because there has been a change of ownership, to which the work- 
men were no consenting purty, their rates of wages are not liable to be 
reduced. If it was a mistake to grant them Dooars rates of wages originally, 
this Jong lapse of 100 years has taken away the basis of the mistake, and 
hag converted it into a substantial right. Such right cannot be so easily 
taken away. 


(2) The Lower Fagu Tea Kstate is still granting Dooars rates of wages. 
Becduse a portion has been carved out of the parent tea estate, that cannot 
entitle the present Company to introduce a eae rate here. That would 
never produce industrial peace or harmony. It will rather be the reverse 
of it. So as an Industrial Tribunal I can never approve of it. 


(3) I have shown above that the workmen’s right to have the Dooars 
rates of wages is more broad-based than the above considerations, which I 
need not repeat here. 


(4) If I look to the conduct of the present employer, 1 must say that it 

is bent on reducing the wages under some plea or other. Jt 1s well-known 
that Government, through the Minimum Wages Committee, granted some 
increment of wages in the case of workmen of the Darjeeling hilly area tea 
ardens, Theo workmen of the Upper Fagu Tea Mstate also claimed at 
লি this benefit granted by the Minimum Wages Committee, West Bengal. 
But the present management refused to concede even that claim of the 
workmen. The management had an injunction in a suit filed in the 
Kalimpong Court preventing the workmen from claiming the benefit under 
this move of (iovernment through the Minimum Wages Committee. So 
it ia clear that the employer is not prepared ما‎ extend even the privileges 
admiasible to Darjeeling hill garden workers to the workers of the Upper 
Fagu Tea Estate, though it wants to classify this garden under the category 
of Darjeeling hilly area tea gardens. That shows the mala fide of the 
present ا‎ সি wis-d-vis the workmen of the Upper Fagu Tea -Kstate. 


The representative of the employer wanted to make much of the fact 
that if the Dooars rates of wages are allowed to continue, the Upper Fagu 
Tea Kstate will be a lability. That cannot be helped. The management 


3080 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 {Panr [ 
ক trees 


itself made the bargain. Now if it does not prove to be a profitable hgrgain 
because of its being carved out from the parent tea estate, no justice wil] 
make the workmen pay for the same. So in any view of the matter, J 
cannot persuade myself to allow the Darjeeling hill garden rates of wages 
to supplant the Dooars rates of wages in the Upper Fagu Tea Estate with 
effect from 6th March 1955. This is my award, 


But the point is, should I grant any specific relicf to the workmen ip 
the present case? I have evidence before me that Darjeeling rates of wages 
ure already an accomplished fact in the Upper Fagu Tea Estate by the force 
of the employer. If that is so, the employer must make that good and pay 
the balance of wages which falls short of the Dooars rates of wages right 
from 6th March 1955 up to the date of reference, i.e., 8th June 1955. 1ڑ‎ 
cannot give any ascertained amount because there is no evidence before 
me specitic on the point. As an Industrial Tribunal, [ think, I am entitled 
to grant this individual relief which follows directly from my decision, and 
I do not think I am exceeding my jurisdiction in granting this very legi- 
timate relief io the workmen of the Upper Fagu Tea Estate in the present 
case. The Dooars rates of wages are given in the Appendix and this is not 
disputed as such. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
G. PALIT, _ G. PALIT, 
Judge. Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal. 


The 13th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


0). ৭. 7১, MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


APPENDIX 
Hazari Doublee Total 
Basic Dearness allowance Brsic Dearness allowance 

As, p. As. p. As, p. As. p. دھ‎ p. 

| Moen 9 0 6 6 9 ۵ 3. 0 27 0 

Womenand 8 9 6 6 8 9) 3 0 a) 8 
adolesvent 

3. Employable 5 0 8 «6 5 0 1 6 16 0 
children. 


4. Sub-.staff (as per agreement betwesn the management and the workmen in the 
Minimum Wages Committee). 


(1) It is agreed that in view of the increase in the wages of the 
workers by 3 annas a day, the wages of all the monthly paid subordinate stati 
will be increased from the Ist of January 1955, by Rs. 5 a month in all 


+7۰ 2ء 


(2) The L.T.A. gardens notwithstanding what is written in paragraph 
(1) above, agree to give this increase by modifying their wages structure 
so that the total starting wage will be Rs. 90 with 650 per cent. dearness 
allowance making Rs. 52-8 in all, or a net increase of Rs. 6-8 وہ‎ month. The 
I.T.A.’s ad hoc allowance of Rs. 4 8 month and the conversion allowance 
of Rs. 9 a month are merged in this new wage. 


part 1] THK CALCUTTA GAZLTTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 308] 


মাপার" 


Where the subordinate staff receives Rs. 18 o month as conversion 
allon#mce Instead of Rs. 9 a month, this extra conversion allowance will be 
replaced by making a further increase of Rs. 6 in the basic wage which 
taking the 50 per cent. dearness allowance info account covers the extra 
Rs. 9 in question, 


(3) These increases of Its. 13 or of Rs. 19, where such figures apply, 
in the basic wage will be given also to those members of the subordinate 
৪150 who are earning more than the starting minimum wage. 


(4) The I.T.P.A. gardens explain that they are parties to a case before 
jhe Llon’ble Appellate Tribunal and though they will pay the Rs. 5 increase 
with effect from Ist of January 195), they are unable to consolidate and/or 
to modify their existing wage structure on the lines of the I.T.A. agree- 
ment recorded in clause (2) during the pendency of the Appellate Tribunal 
cuse. Immediately the appeal has been heard, they will review their 
wage structure. 


J. N. MITRA. J. L. LLEWELLYN. 
14-2-5۰ 14-2-5۰ 
MAITREYEE BOSE. A. I). WILKINS. 
14-2-55, 14-2-55. 
PRAFULLA TRIPATHY. R. G. WALLER. 
14-2-55. 14-2-55. 

N. 73. GURUNG. B. 0. GHOSH. 
14-2-5۰ 14-2-5. 
SUBODH SEN, ও. K. BANERJEE. 
+ 14-2-5 142-55۰ 

NANI BHATTACHARJEE. K K. DUTTA. 
| 14-2-55, 
SASADHAR KAR. 
L. M. PRODHAN. M. C. BANERJI. 
14-9-66. 14-2-55, 
ORDER 


No. 3188Dis.//11L-133(A4) /66.—21st July 1956.—Whereas under 
the Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2256Dis. / 
D/11L-133(A) /56, dated the 28th May 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. General Dealers, Ltd., and Messrs. Kamsahaimul] More, Ltd., both 
of 5 Clive Row, Calcutta, and their employee Shri Gour Ch. Dhar 
represented by the Federation of Mercantile Employees’ Union, 23A 
Netaji Subhas Road (top floor), Calcutta, regarding the matters specified 
in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Third 
Industrial Tribunal, 


And whereas the said Third Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 


hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


3082 TIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9,1958 = [Parr 1 
এটি সি 
ANNEXURE 


= اس 

in the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Ceneral Dealers, 

Ltd., and Messrs. Ramsahaimull More, Ltd., both of 5 Clive Row, 

Calcutta, and their employee Shri Gour Chandra Dhar represented by 

the Federation of Mercantile Employees’ Union, 23A Netaji Subha: 
Road (Top floor), Calcutta, 


٦ 
BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST ا11‎ 


PRESENT: 
. Smet J. N. MAITRA, Judye, Third Industrial Tribunal. 
For the worker: None. 
for Messrs. General Dealers, Ltd., and Messrs, Kamsahamull More, 'Ltd.: 


Shri Biswanath Ash, Advocate. 


AWARD 
1. By order No. 2266Dis./D/111-133(A)/56, dated the 28th May 


1956, the Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, referred 
under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. General Dealers, Jitd., and Messrs. 
Ramsahaimull More, Ltd., both of 5 Clive Row, Calcutta, and their 
employee Shri Gour Chandra Dhar represented by the Federation 
of Mercantile Employees’ Union, 238A Netaji Subhas Road (top floor), 
regarding the matters specified in the schedule, to the Third Industrial 
Tribunal constituted under section 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
by notification No. 692Dis./D/12L-6/52, dated the 28rd February 19938, for 
adjudication. 


2. Summons was duly served on the Federation of Mercantile 
Kmployees’ Union representing the employee Shri Gour Chandra Dhar. It 
did not put in appearance. The employers Messrs. (teneral Dealers, Ltd., 
and Messrs. Ramsahaimull More, Ltd., put in appearance and filed their 
written: statements. 


3. The matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of 
reference is as follows: — 


Is the discharge of Shri Gour Chandra Dhar justified? To what relief 
is he entitled ? 


DECISION 


As neither the employee Shri Gour Chandra Dhar nor the Federation 
of the Mercantile Employees’ Union representing him put in appearance, it 
is presumed that they have no outstanding dispute for adjudication. The 
employers Messrs. General Dealers, Ltd., and Messrs. Ramsahaimull More, 
Lid., on the other hand, filed a joint written statement stating that the 
dispute has been amicably settled. In support of the statement, the 
emplovers have filed a copy of the application addressed by the workman 
to the Assistant Labour Commissioner Shri A. R. Ghosh. In the cir- 
cumstantes, it is abundantly clear that the dispute referred to has been 
settled and needs no adjudication. It is ا‎ accordingly. 


Tictated and corrected by me. 


J. MATTRA, JITENDRA NATH MATTRA, 
Judge. Judge, Third Industral Tribunal. 


The 10th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. &. P. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


part 11 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 8083 
প্লাস پوپ“ وسس جک‎ 
ORDER 


No. 8260Dis. {D/101-42(B) /56.—26th July 1956.—Whereas uuder the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Departinent, order No. 1858Dis./D/ 
10L-67 /638, dated 21st May 1953, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
National Carbon pig জপ (India), 1460.) & MRustomjee Parsie Road, 
Caleutta-2, and their hourly-rated workmen represented by National Carbon 
Mazdur Union, 1 Joy Bhattacharjee Lane, Caleutta-3, National Carbon 
Workers’ Union, 29/10 Cossipore Road, Upper Floor Caleutta-1, and 
National Carbon Sramik Union, 29 Barrackpore Trunk Road, Cossipure, 
Calcutta-2, regarding the matters specified im the schedule to the ৪:10 
order, dated 3181 May 1953, was referred to the Fifth Industrial Tribunal, 
West Bengal, for adjudication; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said 
Tribunal complaint in writing was made by Shri Pasan Ali and two other 
employees of the said Company against the said Company, before the 
said Tribunal, alleging that the said Company had punished the said 
employees concerned in such dispute: 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 88۸ of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said '‘l'ribunal Las 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of ithe 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to کر‎ the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by one Pasan Ali and two others, ৪11 in the employ of 
Messrs. National Carbon Co. (India), Ltd., of 5 Rustomjee Parsie 
Road, Calcutta-1, against the said Company (case No. 228 of 1953) 


BEFORE THE FIFTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
۲۶م‎ G. PALIT, Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal. 


For the workmen: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharya, President of the 
National Carbon Mazdoor Union. 


For the Company: Shri J. N. Chatterji, Assistant Labour Adviser of the 
. Engineering Association of India. 


1. The original reference out of which this case has arisen was made 
under Government order No. 1858Dis./D/10L-57/538, dated 2186 May i993. 


AWARD 


2. It is the contention of the petitioners that six bearers were working 
all along in the staff canteen of the Factory, and that the Company dis- 
charged twe of them, and transferred one to the production departmant. 
The Company did not take new men in those vacancies, but forced the 
petitioners to do the whole job which was originally done by six men with 
the result that the workload on the petitioners has become almost double. 
This was done by the Company without the permission of *the Tribunal 
before whom at that time the main case was pending. Accordingly, the 
petitioners have put in this application under section 383A of the Act before 
the Tribunal for appropriate relief. 


3084 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1936 [Paxr 1 


The Company, viz., Messrs. National Carbon Co. (India), 15490.) in its 
written reply to the Union’s statement says that it did not at any fime 
discharge any bearer from the staff canteen. One of the bearers left the 
service of his own accord, 11110 anotber hearer offered himself for work in 
the production department. So he was transferred there. At present 
there are four bearers in the staff canteen, viz., three working in the day 
shift and one in the night shift. Previously there were five bearers in ‘he 
day shift and one in the night shift. The work at no time was gutficient 
for emplovment of six bearers, but the Company refrained from retrench- 
ing the staff for the time being. 16 is further contended hy the Company 
that the complainants are all monthly-rated employees, and they were not 
concerned in the main dispute referred to by the Union. As such, there 
has been no violation of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and the petition of complaint under section 338A is not, accordingly, 
maintainable in law. 

Qn the date of hearing both the parties amicably settled the dispute in 
question out of Court, and requested the Tribunal by a joint petition to pass 
a ‘‘no dispute’? award in the matter thereby disposing of the case, | 
accept the said petition of compromise, and pass my’ award accordingly. 
The petition of compromise is incorporated in the award as an Appendix. 


Dictated aud corrected by me. 
G. PALIT, 


Judgé. 
0. PALIT, 


Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal. 
The Uith July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. ১৩৩৭, 


APPENDIX 
BEFORE THE FIFTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA. 
In the matter of an industrial dis- 
pute 


Between 
Messrs. National Carbon .لا‎ 
(India), Ltd., 9 MRustomjee Parsie 
Road, Caleutta-2 (to be hereinafter 
known as the Company) 
And 
Their hourly-rated workmen 
And 
In the matter of order No. 1858- 
Dis. /D/10L-57/58, dated 21st May 
1953. Addendum No. 2820Dis./D/ 
10L-57 /58, dated 30th July 1953 
And 
In the matter of an application 
under section 338A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act by Pasan Ali and 
others, 
VETSUS 
Messrs. National Carbon Co. 
(India), Ltd. 


Pirr 11 THE CALCUTTA GAZHTTH, AUGUST 9, 1956 3085 


To Suit G. PALIT, District Judge. 


{(lumble petition of Pusan Ali and 
others, and of National Carbon Co. 
(India), Ltd., who were parties in the 
matter, 
Mosr RUSPECTFULLY SHEWETT; 


That the dispute between the parties has been amicably settled out of 
Court quite voluntarily and on proper consideration. As there ia no 
further dispuie the parties humbly pray that Your Honour will be pleased 
to make a ‘‘no dispute’ award and to dispose of the case Rp পরি 


And for this uct of kindness your petitioners as in duty bound shall ever 
pray. 
Signature for and on behalf of 
the Company. 
Iilegible. 
21-4-56, 
Signature of the workmen concerned. 
PASAN ۸11۰ 
ABDUL RAHMAN. 
AJMAT ALI. 


ORDER 

No, dae ا‎ ae বর নি July 1956.--Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 48)3Dis./D; 
117.-228/55, dated the 138th December 1955, the industrial dispute between 
a The Shiva Glass Works Co., Ltd. (Factory No. 1), 128 Barrackpore 
Vrunk Road, Calcutda, and their workmen, represented by Shiva Glass 
Mazdoor Union, 242/2 Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta-11, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to 
the Second Industrial Tribunal; 


And wherens the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State, Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Shiva Glass 
Works Co., Ltd. (Factory No. 1), 128 Barrackpore Trunk Koad, 
Calcutta, and their workmen represented by Shiva Glass Mazdoor 
Union, 242/2 Manicktola Main Road, Calcutta-11 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT ও ۱ 
Sunt (3. 1, MUKHERJIER, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : 


For the employees: Shri 8. K. Dhar, Advocate, with Shri Matish Roy, 
Secretary, Shiva Glass Mazdoor Union. 


For the Company: Shri P. R. Mukherjee, Advocate. 


3086 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr I 


ডি রি রতি 

By Government order No, 5868Dis./D/11L-228/55, dated 13th 
December 1955, the aforesaid dispute has been referred to this Tribunal “for 
adjudication regarding the matter specified in the schedule, 


issue as contained in the schedule to the order of reference is as‏ تا 
سس ollows‏ 


Is the termination of services of the workmen, as per list attached, 
justified? What relief are they entitled to? 


AWARD 


It is the version of the workmen that on 4th July 1955, the Shiva Glass 
Works Co., Lid. (Factory No. 1), declared lock-out in the whole factory 
from 6 p.m. without justification, and only to crush the Shiva Glass 
Mazdoor Union. The Labour Directorate was moved in the matter, and 
as a result of a series of conciliation proceedings conducted by the Labour 
Officer, the Munagement was directed to take back all the workmen, who 
had been working in the factory before the lock-out. The Management 
took back majority of the workers, but the present workmen, who are 
mentioned in the attached list and who are 195 in number, were not 
allowed to join their duties by the Management. Hence, they claimed to 
be allowed to join their services with full compensation including salary 
and allowances for the period of their forced unemployment. The action 
of the Company is stigmatised to be unjustified and mala fide. 


The Company’s version is that the number of workers employed ا‎ 
Factory No. 1 was about 425, and the work of this factory was going on 
smoothly for several years, but the workmen being misguided by the 
R.8.P. leaders, adopted go-slow policy, as a result of which there was 
considerable fall in production in the month of June 1955. The Company 
gave several notices to the workmen in the month of June 1955 requesting 
them to give up go-slow policy, but still the workers continued that policy 
and resorted to sit-down strike on several days in the factory thereby 
hampering the production. On 4th July 1985, the workers, all on a 
sudden, launched a sit-down strike. The Management apprehending danger 
considered it expedient, as a measure of security, to close down the factory 
on that very day at 6 p.m., and the matter was reported to the Labour 
Commissioner. The Company further contends that as a result of a series 
of conciliation proceedings with the representatives of the workers and the 
Management, an agreement was at last reached, and the lock-out was lifted 
from Gth August 1955 when the factory was reopened. The Management 
issued a notice on that date to the workers requesting them to rejoin their 
work by the 8th August 1955. The Company issued further notices on 8th 
August, 9th August and 10th August 1955 requesting the workers, who 
had not reported for duties, to report for duties at the factory within three 
days. The Company issued a further notice on 13th August 1995 imform- 
ing the workmen that the work in the production section would start on 
or about 18th August 1955, and that the workmen of this section should 
report at The factory by 18৮1) August 1955 without fail. This notice was 
also advertised in several newspapers. As in spite of all these notices 
several workers did not join their duties, the Company gave another notice 
on 20th August 1955, and in this notice the Management clearly mention- 
ed that if the workers did not join their duties by 22nd August 1950, it 
would be considered that the defaulting workers have left their services. 
At the suggestion and request of Shri N. C. Kundu, Labour Officer, the 
date of joining of such workers, who did not till then report for duties, 
was extended by the Management to 29th August 1955. But even in spite 
of this, only a few workers reported for duties. At last, the Management 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3087 


০০০০০ 55০০ উপ স্কট সা 


was compelled to appoint fresh hauds from 18٦ September 1955 to run the 
factory. Accordingly, the Company contends that it did not at all 
fenminate the services of the workers, who are mentioned in the list 
attached to the order of reference, but these workers of their own accord 
had left the service of the Company. The Company further submits that 
the issue regarding termination of service is not maintainable in law in the 
present case, as the lock-out was, lifted with full knowledge of the workers, 
and that us the workers in question did not turn up in spite of notices, 
there was no cause for them to complain that there was termination of 


service. Accordingly, the Company contends that the workers are not 
entitled to any remedy. 


The contention of the workers, as could be gathered, is that the 
Yompany refused to allow these 195 workmen, as per list attached to the 
order of reference, to join their duties, although they had gone to join, 
und that the action of the Company was unjustified and mala fide. It is 
urged on behalf of the workers that this was an instance of unfair labour 
practice and victimisation on the part of the Management. The Company 
denied this contention of the workers. Its version, on the other hand, is 
that the Company did not terminate the services of these workers, but the 
workers themselves did not turn up to join their duties in spite of several 
notices issued by the Management from time to time, extending their 
joining time. Accordingly, it 1s urged on behalf of the Company that 
there was no termination of services of these workers by any order of 
dismissal, It further wanted to say that it could not keep the factory 
gute indefinitely open for any length of time in expectation of the workers 
‘goming or stepping in, as they pleased. 


So, the point in the instant case boils down to this. Whether the 

anagement refused: to allow these workers to join their duties, or whether 

these workers did not turn up of their own accord in spite of several notices 
issued by the Management 7 


At the very outset, I may say that in this dispute I am not concerned 
with any question of lock-out. The issue in the order of reference is 
regarding the termination of services of these workers. The Government 
in the order of reference has specified only one point for adjudication, and 
it is whether the termination of services of the workmen as per list attach- 
ed to the order of reference justified. That being so, the Tribunal shall 
confine its adjudication to that point only. The Tribunal cannot go 
beyond the strict terms of reference. Accordingly, the Tribunal cannot 
enter into the question whether the lock-out was justified or not. It may 
be stated in this connection that the discharge of workers or termination 
of their services does not amount to lock-out, and it has been held so by 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case of the Presidency Jute Mills 
Company, Ltd., and their workmen reported in 1952 ..A.C. 62. That lock- 
out in this factory was declared on 4th July 1955 18 admitted by both the 
parties. It has transpired from evidence that the said lock-out was lifted 
on 6th August 1955, as a result of conciliation proceedings held by the 
Labour Officer with the Management and the representatives of the workers. 
It has also been satisfactorily proved by the evidence, as furnished by the 
Company, that notices were issued by the Management asking all the 
workers to join their duties after the lock-out was lifted, and such date 
of joining was extended up to 29th August 1955. These notices have been 
proved (wide Ext. E-series). A copy of such notice was also published in 
five local newspapers (vide Ext. F-series). It has come out from the 


3088... THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 196 [0] 


Caine, Crete, 
سس‎ 


evidence of Shr ৩, 1১, Modi (O.P.W. 1), who is one of the Directors of 
Messrs. Shiva Glass Works Company, Ltd., and who manages the affairs 
of the Company, that the notices, which were issued on 8th, 9th, 10+ 
18th and 20th August 1955 were pasted on the Notice Board inside the 
factory and also outside the gate of the factory. He has denied the 
allegation that such workers, who belong to the Mazdoor Union, were not 
allowed to join by the Management. He has made wu positive statement 
that at tho request of the Labour Commissioner, the Management invited 
all the workers to join their duties, and that no discrimination was made 
in this respect. In this connection, it may be stated that out of 195 
workers us mentioned in the list attached to the order of reference, 111 
were taken in by the Company after the order of reference was made leav- 
ing behind only 84 workers. The very fact that out of about 500 workers 
who were in the factory at the tume of lock-out, more than 400 were allowed 
to join their duties leaving behind a fraction of such workers only, 
negatives the contention of the Union that the Management victimised 
them out of malice. In my view, this rather shows that the Management 
was exceedingly considerate, and must have weighed the conduct of every 
worker who came forward to 1010) by the dates prescribed by it. According 
to the evidence of the Secretary, Shiva Glass Muazdoor Union, this Union 
represents 85 per cent. of the workers. But the fact remains that 
majority of the workers was absorbed by the Company after the lock-out 
was lifted. So, the argument of the Union that these 84 workmen were 
not taken in simply because they belonged to the Mazdoor Union, does not 
hold good. P.W. 1 Secretary of the Union has stated no doubt that 
{these workmen approached the Management for resumption of their duties 
after the lock-out was lifted, but the Management refused to take them 
in. This is emphatically denied by O.P.W. 1 Shri 8S. ط‎ Modi, the 
Director of the Company. He has made a clear and positive statement 
that these 84 workmen did not at all report for duties. He has further 
deposed on oath that even after the last date fixed in the notice, dated 20th 
August 1955, they took those workers who came and reported for duties. 
He has denied with emphasis’ the suggestion that they did not allow these 
workers to join, in order to victimise the Unton, to which they belonged. 
It is interesting to note that in this case none of the workers has been 
examined. In the circumstances, no reliance can be placed on the un- 
corroborated testimony of the Secretary of the Union, im the face 01 
emphatic denial and positive testimony of Shri S$. P. Modi, who is one of 
the Directors of the Company and manages its affairs. After giving ٥۴۷ 
careful and anxious consideration to the evidence, facts and circumstances, 
I am of the view that all these workers did not at all report for duties in 
the factory in spite of several notices issued by the Management from time 
to time, and I am not prepared to believe that they presented themselves 
at the gate of the factory, but were not allowed by the Management to join 
their duties. Nor am I prepared to hold that such notices that have heen 
proved inethis case by the Management, were not issued in“a manner ×۸ 
deposed to hy O.P.W. 1 Shri S, P. Modi. All these workmen, in my view, 
had knowledge of these notices, and it cannot be held that they were 
totally ignorant of the same. These workers were members of a Union, 
and the said Union was acting on their behalf. So, such Union must have 
kept information as to what was going on in the factory, or what was 
being done by the Management. The lock-out was lifted on 6th August 
1955. The Management virtually kept the doors for re-entry open 1111 
28th August 1955 by issuing notices one after another. Tn spite of this, 
only a small fraction of the workers did not join. Thot is a thing for 
which the Management cannot be held responsible. The doors for such 


re-entry cannot be kept open for an indefinite time to enable the workers 


parr 11 TITH CALOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3089 


می شس pny‏ 


سی 


to join their services. They were in duty bound to come back within a 
reasonable time, and if they could not, they ought to have given satis- 
jactory explanation for the same. But here in the present case, no such 
explanation was given. The only explanation that was sought to be offered 
on their behalf before the Tribunal is that the Management did not sllow 
them te join, although they reported for duties at the gate of the factory. 
But such explanation has been found to be unacceptable for the reasons 
stated already. In view of what lras been stated above, it cannot be said by 
any means that the Management terminated the services of all these workers 
barring Sinhasan Jadal (serial No. 8 of the list attached to the order of 
reference). In my view, those workers must be deemed to have voluntarily 
loft the service of the Company by not turning up in spite of notices is used 
by the Management. Hence, it is not a case of termination of service by 
the Management as 73810171160 in the issue framed by the Government. in the 
order of reference. In its true essence, this is a case for voluntary relin- 
quishment or resignation of service by these men. Such a case is out of 
bounds of the Industrial Disputes Act. Hence, all the workers, save end 
except Sinhasan Jadab, are not entitled to any relief. In this connection, 
1 may observe that the Management was perfectly justified in recruiting 
new hands for running its business, as all the workers did not turn up to 
join after the lock-out was lifted. 


Regarding Sinhasan Jadab, his case, however, stands on a_ different 
footing. According to the Union, he was victimised on 18th June 1955. 
The matter was taken to the Labour Directorate. Although the labour 
Oticer requested the Management to reinstate him, the Management did 
it accede to it. The Company has denied the alleged victimisation ot 
نما‎ Jadab. The Company’s version is that he used to work as a 
yack-maker, but he was absent from duties for several days without leave 
abd intimation, and as such he was discharged. I called for the Labour 
119 in this case, and have perused the same. O.P.W. 1 Shri 8S. P. Mod 
haa also stated before this Tribunal that as Sinhasan Jadah was absent from 
duties for several days without leave and intimation, he was discharged. 
But in his cross-examination, he was constrained to admit that no written 
notice was given to Sinhusan Jadab when he was discharged, nor was any 
explanation called for from him before his discharge. Even 20 charge- 
sheet was issued to him, nor was any enquiry held before his discharge. 
Thus there can be no room for doubt that the principles of natural justice 
were violated in his case. It cannot be held that a worker will lose his 
service without having any opportunity to meet the charge levelled against 
him, and at the sweet will and pleasure of the Management. Sinhasan 
Jadab should have been given an opportunity to explain his position before 
being discharged. But the stubborn fact remains that no charge-sheet was 
delivered to him, nor was any enguiry held by the Management in order 
to ascertain what he had got to say by way of explanation for his alleged 
absence. The termination of service of Sinhasan Jadab cannot accordingly 
be justified. In such cases, the employer cannot be said to have acted with 
an honest purpose. That heing so, the termination of service of Sinhasan 
Jadab (serial No. 3 of the list attached to the order of reference) was not 
only wrongful, but illegal and unjustified. The action of the Management 
was rather arbitrary. In my view, this is a fit case, in which reinstate- 
ment should be ordered. Accordingly, the Tribunal directs that Sinhasan 
Jadab (serial No. 3 of the list attached to the order of reference) be 
reinstated. He must come back to duty and join as soon as this award 
becomes operative. He shall get back wages and allowance, if any, for 
the entire period from the date of his termination of service till reinstate- 
ment within one month of the award becoming effective. Be it further 


3090 ۰ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST’S, 1950 [Panr ] 


noted that the period of his forced unemployment should not be regarded 
as a break in his ھ٥٠‎ 


This is the award of the Tribunal. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. 1), MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, 
18-1-0۰ 


The 1311) July, 1956. 


G. 1১. MUKHERJEE, 


Judye, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


List of workmen who have not been allowed to join 


(1) Madan Basack (blower). 
(2) Lakshmi Narayan Das. 


(3) Sinhasan Jadab. 
(4) Md. Ali. 

(9) Md. 7۰ 

(6) Kadam Rasul. 
(7) Fowdar. 

(8) Gouri Sankar. 
(9) Ganhari. 

(10) Jagan. 

(11) Jamuna Prosad. 
(12) Mathura Prosad. 
(13) Bijlee. 


(14) Amal Chandra Das. 
(15) Ram Raj. 
(16) Ram Peart. 


(17) Mir Hossain. 
(18) Bhulee. 

(19) Bharat. 

(20) Ali Hossain. 
(21) Haridas. 

(22) Sankar. 

23) Rameswar. 
(24) ۰ 

(25) Abdul Majid. 
(26) Rudal. 

(27) Duarka. - 
(583 Gopal Ram. 
(29) Ali Hossain. 
(30) Ramjan. 

(31) Baldeo. 

(32) Daulat Ali. 
(33) Md. Jalil (blower). 
(94) Md. Sariff. 
(35) Md. Khalil. 
(36) Ramjan. 

(37) Gautam Prosad. 
(38) Md. Soran. 


(39) Radhaballav Karmakar. 


(40) Baijnath Singh. 
(41) Nun. 
(42) Rezauddin. 


(43) Shivanath, 

(49) Ramkishore, 

(45) Ramesh. 

(46) Surju. 

(47) Sukhu. 

(48) Baleswar. 

(49) Durga. 

(90) Md. Ismile (blower). 
(51) Sudarsan Deb. 

(52) Sree Prosad. 

(53) Lal Shaw. 

He Bacha. 

(50) Biswan. 

(56) Botlee, 

(91) Saran, 

(08) Sahid Khan. 

(99) Samsul Hoque. 

(60) Karimuddin. 

1 Abdul Gani. 

٠ 11٠ 

63) ۰+. 

(64) Yasin. 

(65) Ekadashi. 

(66) Md. Husnain. 

(67) Abdul Khalek. 

(68) Kadim., 

(69) Gokul Chandra Roy. 
(70) Japohi. 

(71) ٠۰ 

(72) Shabuddin. 

(73) Baghan. 

(74) Abdul Rejak (blower). 
(75) Md, Jahur. 

(76) Mir Hussain. 

(77) Sunil Majumder (blower). 
(78) Md. Jalil (blower). 
(79) Lakhan. 

(80) Imam Ali. 

(81) Sambhunath Chakrabarty. 
(82) Prohlad. 

(83) Md. Ah (blower). 
(84) Ram Bharaj. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


১০০০৪ SD رہ‎ শা جوا‎ inte ےہ سی‎ 


$85) Mouzim. 

(86) Sukrain. 

(87) Rambari. 

(88) Abdul Majid, II. 
(89) Panchu. 

(90) Baleswar, IT. 
(91) Yusuf, I. 

(92) Yusuf, 11, 
(93) Yusuf, 111. 
(94) Golam. 

(95) Amiuddin. 

(96) Nasiruddin. 
(97) Nasiruddin. 
(98) Sokhat. 

(99) Suleman. 
(100) Kasim, IT. 
(101) Motazim. 
(102) Ash Mohammad. 
(108) Md. Safique. 
(104) Safiruddin. 
(105) Kyamuddin. 
(106) Yunus. 
(107) Md. Ismail, IT. 
(108) Md. Khalil, IT. 
(109) Abdul Hafiz. 
(110) Karimuddin. 
(111) Kallu. 

(112) Hasmain, IT. 
(119) Abdul Gafur. 
115 Abdul Aziz. 
115) Md. Hossain. 
(116) Rashid. 

(117) Israil, IT. 


(150) Methlu. 
(151) Dhanaya. 


(162) Bejoy Kumar Dey. 


(199) Gopal. 
(154) Haridasi. 
(1861 Radhama. 
156) Kumari. 
(157) Luxmi, I. 
(158) Luxmi, IT. 
(159) Bibha Rani. 


(169) Sital. 

(170) (tanar. 

(171) Bhulu Shaw. 
(172) Deoki Shaw. 
(173) Mewlal. 
(174) Bhulu, IT. 


(181) ۰ 
(182) Kuklal. 


(118) Kasim, II. 
(119) Rahamatullah. 
(120) Kasim, IIT. 
(121) Alauddin. 
(122) Bakridan. 
(1881 Nazru. 

(124) Munshi. 
(125) Sailen Dey. 
(126) Makhan Natta. 
(127) Nakul Natta. 
(128) Sukumar Dey. 
(129) Ramkisan, II. 
(130) Babu Lal. 
(131) Kartik Das. 
(182) Madhu. 


(133) Ram Sajiban Pundit. 


(134) Naren Datta. 
(135) Sankar, IT. 
(136) Durga, IT. 
(137) Bali. 

(198) Jogendra Datta. 
(1389) Ramdhari. 
(140) Girish Datta. 
(141) Shiva Lal. 
(142) Bal Krisan. 
(149) Ram Sankar. 
(144) Madan Qopal. 
145) Ram Chandra. 
(1441 Peart. 


(147) Kanya. 
(148) Ram Nath. 
(149) Madhu. 


Grinding Section 


tals Bhagahboti. 
161) Renu Bala. 
(162) Monorama. 
(163) Kusum Bala. 
(164) Kamala. 
(165) Bada Mia. 


(166) Dhanrajia. 
(167) Rani Bala. 
(168) Chai Tewary. 


Packing Section 


(175) Surju, IT. 
(176) Sukdeo. 
(177) Amrit Shaw. 
(178) Mathura. 
(179) Ramajatan. 
(180) Kanu. 


Mirture Section 


(183) Khedu. 
(184) Jhulai. 


3091 


ee ডালপালা এপ পাপ 


3092 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr I 


Press Machine 


(185) Jagadish Choudhury. (187) Hardeo. 
(186) Ram Abatar. (188) Bechu. 
Lorry and Delivery Section 
(189) Khun Khun. (198) Sudarsan Pundit. 
(190) Jaggu. (194) Pati. 
(191) Surju, I. (195) Maniram Harijan. 


(192) Loknath. 
By order of the Governor, 


D.S. ۲۰ MOKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 8292Dis. /1)/101,-96/55.—30th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No, 2683])is./D/ 
10L-96/55, dated the 15th June 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Nandi Keshori Engineering Works, 19/32 Ram Krishna Mandir 
Path, North Bantra, Howrah, and four of their employees mentioned in 
the schedule to the said order, represented by Howrah Zilla Toha Karkhana 
Mazdoor Congress of 49 শক Chatterjee Lane, Howrah, was referred 
for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal ; 


And whereas on appeal filed by the said Messrs. Nandi Keshori 
Engineoring Works against the award made by the said Tribunal on the 
aforesaid industrial dispute, the Labour حا‎ Tribunal sent back the 
case on remand for hearing to the said lower ‘lribunal; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal heard the case and 
submitted to the State Government its award on the said industrial dispute ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial রা Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby fo publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Nandi 
Keshori Engineering Works, 19/32 Ram Krishna Mandir Path, North 
Bantra, Howrah, and four of their employees mentioned in the schedule 
represented by Howrah Zilla Loha Karkhana Mazdoor Congress of 43 
Baikuntha Chatterjee Lane, Howrah (case No. ۷۱۱۱۰۱۹8 of 55), 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, 
THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 
Sner SATLESH SEN GUPTA, Judge, Sixth Industrial Tribunal 


Appearances : 
For the Company: Shri H. Chakraborti Advocate, instructed by Shri Sunil 
Krishna Mitra, Proprietor. 
For the Union: Shri Modan Mohan Saha, Advocate. 


This reference made by the Government of West Bengal by order 
No. 2683Dis./D/101,-96/55, dated Calcutta, the 15th June 1955, was 
dealt with and disposed of by me by award, dated 5th November 1956, 
on the ex parte evidence produced by the Union representing the workers. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1986 3093 


The Company had filed written statement in opposition but failed to appear 
on the date fixed for hearing. The Union offered evidence and the case 
was decided on the materials supplied by it. The Company went up in 
appeal and drew the attention of the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribunal, 
pointedly to the order passed by the Tribunal on 22th September 1956 
settling 3rd November 1955 as the date for hearing. There wus a direction 
in the order to inform the parties. In conformity with established usage 
information was given by affixing notice in the Notice Board. Somehow 
or other the Labour Labour Appellate Tribunal was not apprised of the 
fact or was not convinced that the normal procedure for +4 i parties 
was by publication in the Notice Board. Under the general law the duty 
is cast upon parties to keep themselves acquainted with the proceedings 
and the orders passed therein. Courts and Tribunals are not required 
under the law to give information to parties. Be that as it may, in the 
view that the Company had no notice of the hearing date, the Jearned 
Appellate Tribunal remanded the case for fresh hearing and _ disposal 
according to law. That is how the matter has been reopened. 


The dispute is concerned with the dismissal of four employees and the 
issues formulated by Government are os follows :— 


issues 


(1) Whether the dismissal of Shri Krishna Chandra  Santra, 
Shri Sudhir Bhowmick, Shri Kalipada Dalui and Shri Balai 
Santra is justified ? 


(2) What relief including reinstatement are they entitled to? 


The written statement lodged by the Union is a model of brevity. No 
particulars are furnished as to the date and the circumstances in which 
the services of these employees came to an end. The bare statement 
appears that they were dischurged without any reason whatsoever and no 
payment of wages already due and compensation for abrupt termination of 
service had been made, 


The Company’s reply is that in September 1954, Krishna Chandra 
Santra, on whom the Proprietor relied to a large extent, conceived the idea of 
assuming leadership and dictate terms to the management. Forming a 
sort of “resistance group’? these employees started » mischievous campaign 
calculated to cause injury to the concern. Production was slowed down 
and the actual execution of work was performed perfunctonly. They 
became insubordinate and defied the Proprietor. On the 17th of December 
1954, these employees were given verbal notice that on the expiry of a 
month from date their services would terminate. On such notice beiag 
given there was an aggravation of the malpractices and costly machines 
and tools were wilfully dumaged or broken. Om the 15th of January 1995, 
they were reminded of the notice of dismissal and were asked to be 
present on the 17th to receive their dues. On the date thus appointed 
only Sudhir Bhowmick appeared but the other three remained absent. 
On the 18th morning all و‎ appeared but refused to accept payment of 
the dues offered by the Proprietor. Thereafter they left the workshop on 
being asked by the Proprietor to clear out. As these employees were 
dismissed on grounds of misconduct and insubordination, they are sot 
entitled to any relief 


The two issues are dealt with jointly. 


The written statement submitted on behalf of the employees does not 
disclose the relevant facts. In evidence the omissions were made ৫০০. 
It was stated that Krishna Chandra Santra was suffering from acute 
diarrhoea on Saturday the 15th January 1955. As he was too ill to do 


3094 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr 1 


س 

his duty he left at 12 noon with the permission of the Munager. Ite 

could not return for duty on the 17th (Monday) as his illness 1ھ‎ 

continued. When he attended the factory on the 18th he was called ہا‎ 

the Manager and interrogated why he was absent on the previous day. 

Though he replied that he was ill he was dismissed forthwith and was not 
allowed to join his duty. 


Balai Chandra Santru is Krishna Chandra Santra’s brother's son. 
His evidence is that on account of his uncle’s illness he had to go to 
Burdwan on Sunday the 16th January, to fetch his aunt (Krishna Ch. 
Santra’s wife). He could not hence attend the factory on the I7th. 
When he appeared on the 18th he was sent for by the Proprietor and 
informed that his servicer were dispensed with owing to his absence on 


the 17th. 


Kalipada Dalui gave evidence that on the 17th January, he missed the 
train and reached the office at 8-45 a.m. Ile was thus late by 45 minutes. 
The gate being closed he could not enter the factory. When he came the 
next day the Proprietor dismissed him. So it appears none of these 
three persons had reported for duty on the 17th January 1955. The 
suggestion on behalf of the Company is that this absence was in pursuance 
of a concerted design. So far as Krishna Chandra Santra is concerned 
the evidence is that he became ill on Saturday the 15th and on Monday 
the 17th he was still in the same condition and hence he was not fit to 
attend the factory. 


Sudhir Bhowmick P. W. 4 admitted in cross-examination that the duty 
hours were changed by the Proprietor. Previously work started at 8 a.m. 
and closed at 5 p.m. Under the new arrangement work was to close at 
4-00 p.m. On Saturdays the factory was closed formerly at 1-30 p.m. 
The hours being changed work was to 5+. carried on from 8 a.m. to 
4-30 p.m. on Saturdays as well. Having got an inkling of the proposed 
changes Sudhir Bhowmick (himself), Balai and Krishna had _ discussions 
over this matter at 10 p.m. in the para on Sunday the 16th January 1920. 
They had met together on the roak of neighbour of theirs. From this 
evidence it 1s clear that Krishna Chandra Santra was not ill. Wis absence 
from duty on the day following was therefore not due to 11) health. 


Balai Santra gave evidence that he went to Burdwan to bring Krishna 
Santra’s wife in the morning on Sunday. He returned at about 10 p.m. 
The factory 18 at a distance of 25 minutes walk from his house. The 
circumstances were not such that he could not attend the workshop ان‎ 
8am. He might be a few minutes late but 11 1s clear that no attempt 
was made by him to attend his duties. He had hence no reasonable 
ground for his absence. 


Kalipada Dalui deposed before the Tribunal that on the 170] he was 
late because he had missed a train. He appeared at the gate at 8-45 a.m. 
but was denied admission by the durwan. The evidence of the Proprietor 
Shri Sunil Mitra is that he has no durwan in his employ. P. W. 3 Balai 
admitted im cross-examination that no durwan remains on duty at the 
gate. ‘Kalipada’s evidence that because of the obstruction by durwan he 
could not join his duty on the 17th is palpably false. This witness has 
set up a record in hard swearing. Krishna Santra’s sister is Kalipada 
Dalui’s mother. This relationship was admitted by Balai but Kalipada 
himself emphatically denied the relationship. He has thus proved 
himself thoroughly unreliable as a witness. His testimony that he was 
obstructed by durwan has also been proved conclusively to be false. The 
necessary conclusion is that there was no ground for his absence on the 


17th. “ 


part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3095 
ee ee ee ee 

Sudhir Bhowmick’s case is a bit different. We stated that on the 17th 
january, after the regular working hours when he was about to come 
away the Proprietor desired him to work overtime. He declined on the 
round that his mother was ill. Thereupon the Proprietor insisted on his 
uiting On record the amount of work he had done on that day. Sudhir 
Rhowmick wanted the Proprietor to make the record on the spot. The 
proprietor flared up and asked him to clear out. He did not return to 
duty any time thereafter. For exigencies of business the management has 
ihe right to make the employees work overtime and pay overtime 
allowances as prescribed by law. Employees cannot refuse to work 
overtime except on cogent grounds. The plea taken by Sudhir Bhowmick 
was that his mother was ill. The evidence however shows that his 
hrother Nimai is also employed in this Company, and he had left for 
home on that day. If both the brothers could attend the factory despite 
the mother’s illnes and remain away from home for the whole day, it was 
not necessary for both the brothers to be at the mother’s hed side. As 
Nimai had left for home already Sudhir Bhowmick might have continued 
working, according to Proprietor’s instructions. In refusing to do so he 
was guilty of disobedience. 


J have considered the circumstances as stated by the employees. The 
waclusion I have arrived at is that they had taken false pleas in justifica- 
tin of their absence on the 17th and Sudhir Bhowmick had put forward 
0 lame excuse for not complying with the order of the Proprietor for 
overtime work. The case presented by the Proprietor is that since 
September 1954, a growing spirit of insubordination was noticed. Their 
work deteriorated and the Proprietor’s impression is that they had 
deliberately resorted to the lowering of the quality of production. There 
was ph Government order for certain articles. Ext. (© shows that the 
articles were so carelessly manufactured that they were all rejected. The 
Company suffered joss. It is also admitted by Krishna Santra that M. L. 
Jain had placed order for certain goods. These goods were manufactured 
ly him in Sj. Jain’s karkhana after his dismissal. This was so because 
the workers did not work to the best of their ability when the order was 
placed with this concern. Krishna Chandra Santra, Balai Santra and 
Kalipada Dalui are closely related to one another. Sudhir Bhowmick 28 
) tenant under Krishna Santra’s father. It is crystal clear that these 
four workers had banded themselves into a group and had started creating 
trouble. They were not working with due care and attention, and taking 
the bit between their teeth they were riding rough-shod over discipline. 
There are ample grounds for believing the testimony of the Proprietor 
that the services of all these men were dispensed with because of calculated 
insolence and perfunctory execution of work causing Joss to the concern. 
It is true that no charge-sheets were served and no enquiry was_ held. 
The facts were to the knowledge of the Proprietor himself. The Tribunal! 
on independent consideration of the facts and circumstances comes to the 
conclusion that these emplovees were guilty of insubordination, misconduct 
and bad work. Their dismissal was therefore amply justified. They ere 
not entitled to any relief. 


NDictated and corrected by me. 
দি. SEN GUPTA, 


Judge. 


S. SEN GUPTA, 


Judge, Sixth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 17th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. 7. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr ]‏ 3096 
مے-+حگجحم ےسک سے سے جس ےمسجم سے مج سس SSS‏ 
ORDER‏ 

No, 3298Dis, /D/111-12 ig eae July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1275Dis./D/ 
111/-12/96, dated the 27th March 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Butta Kristo Paul & Co. (Research Laboratory), Ltd., 7 Bhutnath 
Paul Road, Dum Dum, Calcutta-30, and their employees mentioned in the 
list attached therewith, represented by B. K. Paul & Co., Ltd., Employees’ 
Union, 23A Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified 
in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industria] 
Tribunal ; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased herehy 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Butto Kristo Paul 
and Co. (Research Laboratory), Ltd., 7 Bhutnath Paul Road, Dum Dum, 
Calcutta-30, and their employees mentioned in the list attached to the 
order of reference represented by B. K. Paul and Co., Ltd., Employees’ 
Union, 23A Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta. ۱ 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Suri G. P. MOKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances: 
For the employees: Shri Patit Paban Pathak. 
For the Company: Shri 8. C. Das Gupta, Advocate. 


By order No. ا ئا‎ 11L-12/56, dated 27th March 1956, the 
Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, has referred the 
above dispute to this Tribunal for adjudication regarding the matters 
mentioned in the schedule to the order of reference. 


The following issues have been raised for adjudication as per schedule 

to the said order of reference :— 
Whether the laid-off employees mentioned in the attached list are 
entitled to any benefit? What amounts are each of them 


entitled to? 
AWARD 


Qn 26th August 1954 the Company issued a notice laying off these 84 
workmen with effect from 30th August 1954. The notice stated inter alia: 
‘The employees thus laid-off will be entitled to get the benefits of laid-off 
compensation as provided under the Industrial Disputes Amendment Act of 
1953 on the conditions laid down therein’’. Pursuant to this notice, these 
84 workmen who are mentioned therein, were laid-off from 30th August 
1954. The Company in spite of the assurance given in the aforesaid notice, 
has not paid any lay-off compensation to any of these workmen. The 
Labour Directorate was moved in the matter, and there the Company also 
promised to pay the lay-off compensation to these workers, but the promise 
was not kept by the Company. Hence, the Government made this reference. 
ra پت‎ concerned accordingly 01811) compensation for the period of 
lay-off. 


parti] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 3097 


: nearer weer ASST NP GS TEESE UT Gp PEE Be I EE A PEE AE IP EE EEO A NS EEA BI ACL SA EE IES RENEE I DS جنگ‎ BO ONES GEOL جگکز تد‎ (Se tt ee REEL 
—— 


{he €ompany admits that these 84 workmen were laid-off from 380th 
August 1954, but it contests the claim for compensation as put forward cn 
pehalf of these workmen. It contends that among the workmen mentioned 
in the list, 14 [ Nos. (70), (71), (72), (73), 014), (75), (76), (77), (78), 
(80), Bl), (82), (83) and (84)] were recalled to duties on different dates, and 
have been working since then. It further contends that the workers 
00010611590 were engaged in employment elsewhere during the period of 
lay-off, and that none of them fulfilled the conditions mentioned in section 
290) of the Industrial Disputes Act. In the circumstances, it is urged 
on behalf of the Company that the workmen concerned are-not entitled to 
any lay-off compensation. 


There is no dispute or controversy between the parties that these 84 
workmen were laid-off by the Company from 30th August 1954 pursuant 
(0 a notice issued on 26th August 1954. Admittedly, that lay-off still 
continues, so far as most of the workmen of the het attached to the order 
of reference are concerned. The Company has adduced evidence that only 
14 among 84 workmen of the list, whose Nos. are (70), (71), (72), (73), (74), 
(75), (76), (77), (78), (80), (81), (82), (83) and (84) were subsequently 
recalled for duties on different dates, and are still working. The evidence on 
the side of the Company in this respect stands unchallenged and uncontra- 
dicted. There was no cross-examination on this point by the Union, nor has 
the Union furnished any evidence to the contrary. Shri Pathak appearing on 
behalf of the Union fairly accepted this position at the time of hearing. 


As stated already, one of the contentions of the Company is that the 
workmen concerned are not entitled to get lay-off compensation, as none of 
them fulfilled the conditions mentioned in section 20K of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. In this respect, the Company presumably relied on condi- 
tion 48 laid down in clause (ii) of section 25K, which runs as follows:— 


No compensation shall be paid to a workman, if he does not present 
himself for work at the establishment at the appointed time 
: during normal working hours at least once a day.’’ 


But I may say straightway that the workmen, who were thus laid-off 
in the present case, were not required to fulfil the condition as laid down in 
clause (11) of section 20H. In the notice issued by the Company for lay-off, 
it was not stated anywhere that the workers laid-off were to present them- 
selves for work at the establishment during normal working hours at least 
once a day. Furthermore, according to the written statement of ‘the 
Company (vide paragraph 2), the Company had to close down its work and 
to lay-off the workmen concerned, as there was no business, If the Company 
had to close down the work and business, then where was the scope for the 
workmen concerned to present themselves during normal working hours at 
least once a day? Possibly, there could be no such scope. Then again, the 
Company has further stated in paragraph 3 of its written statement that 
after the closure there was a distinct understanding that the workmen 
would be taken back, in case the Company was in a position to restart 
work, and that in pursuance of this understanding, they were not required 
to present themselves for their attendance as required under the Industrial 
Ihsputes Act to become eligible for the lay-off compensation. In view of 
this averment in the written statement, the Company cannot be allowed to 
raise an objection that the workmen concerned were not entitled to get any 
lay-off compensation, simply because they failed to present themselves for 
attendance at least once a day. This attitude of the Company to defeat the 
rights of the workmen concerned to compensation, is anything but satis- 
factory, and cannot be approved. The Company cannot blow hot and cold 
ai the same time, nor can it approbate and reprobate. Accordingly, this 


3038 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr ] 
چہچچچچ چس رش‎ সি 
contention of the Company is repelled. Next, 1١ was contended ow راودا‎ 
of the Company that as the workmen concerned were employed elsewhere 
during the period of lay-off, they were not entitled to any compensation, 
But the Company has not adduced any evidence to show that the workers 
concerned were so employed. Hence, this contention does not stand. 


The Tribunal, on a consideration of the facts and circumstances, feels 
no doubt or hesitation in holding that the workmen mentioned in the attached 
list, who were admittedly laid-off, by the Company, are entitled to benefit 
by way of compensation, mm accordance with section 250 of the Industrig] 
Disputes Act. It is interesting to note in this connection that these work. 
men were informed also by the very notice, dated 26th August 1954, under 
which they were laid-off, that they would get the benefit of lay-off compen. 
sation as provided under the Industrial রক Amendment Act, 1953. 
The Company, therefore, cannot dispute the rights of the workmen con. 
cerned to lay-off compensation. 


Now the question is what would be the quantum of compensation pay. 
able to these 84 workers under section 2580 of the Act. I shall take up 011 
the case of 14 workers, who were recalled for duties after lay-off. O.P.W. | 
Shri Phani Bhusan Banerjee, who 18 the cashier of the Company, has deposed 
in this case. Ile has stated that these 14 workers were recalled, and they 
joined their duties. J'rom his evidence, it appears that those 14 workers 
joined on the dates as given below :— 


(1) Shri Jyotish Ch. Kar 
(serial No. 70)—16th September 1954. 


(2) Shri Sudhanya Mukherjee 
(serial No. 76)—16th September 1954. 
(3) Shri Dhirendra Nath Rudra 
(serial No, 81)—16th September 1954. 
(4) Shri Murari Mohan Khan 
(serial No. 72)—14th September 4. 


(5) Shri Debendra Nath Ghosh 
(serial No. 74)—14th September 1954. 


(6) Shri Hena Routh 
(serial No. 74)—14th September 1954. 


(7) Shri Gajaram Kahar 
(serial No. 77)—14th September 1954. 


(8) Shri Madhu Sudhan Paul 

(serial No. 80)—14th September 1954. 
(9) Shri Baidya Nath Paja 

(serial No. 82)—14th September 1954. 
(10) Shri Raghunath Dutta 

(serial No. 73)—17th September 1954. 
(1T) Shri Phani Bh. Biswas 

(serial No. 71)-——23rd September 1954. 
(12) Shri Sadhan Pakhira 

(serial No. 78)—11th April 1955. 
(13) Shri Jitendra Mohan Chakrabarty 

(serial No. 83)—7th April 1956. 
(14) Shri Pabitra Kumar Halder 

(semal No. 84)—-7th April 1955. 


parr 11 THK CALCUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 9, 1956 3099 
পপ সা 

Adordingly, in accordance with ৮102) 25C of the Act, the workers 
Nos. (72), (74), (75), (77), (80) and (82) shall get lay-off compensation for 
10 days, workers Nos, (70), (76) and (81) for 17 days, worker No, (73) for 
18 days and worker No. (71) for 24 days. Such compensation they ehall 
get at the rate as provided in the body of section 260, that is 50 per cent. 
of the total of the basic wages and dearness allowance. 


Regarding the remaining 3 workers Nos, (78), (83) and (84) and 70 other 
workers in the dwt, the point is whether they ure entitled to get such lay-oft 
compensation only for the first 45 days, or for the entire period of lay-off, 
which admittedly varied from 216 to about 567 days. It is contended by 
the Company that in accordance with proviso (a) to section 25C, those workers 
were entitled to compensation for the first 45 days and for the rest of the 
period, no compensation was payable. According to the Company, proviso 
(b) to section 200 cannot apply to the present case. In short, the argument 
advanced on behalf of the Company is that the workmen in the instant case 
could be granted compensation only for the first 45 days of the lay-off, and 
not for any period thereafter. On behalf of the Union, it is agreed that 
proviso (a) io section 25C applies to the first period of 45 days. But its 
contention is that for the remaining period of the lay-off, the governing 
provision is proviso (b) to section 25C, and as such the workers in the 
present case are entitled to get compensation for the remaining period alsv. 


So, the point for consideration is that whether proviso (b) to section نار‎ 
would apply to the instant case. On a careful reading of section 2901, the 
Tribunal is of the definite view that proviso (b) to section 26C would not 
apply when there was a single continuous period of lay-off over 45 days. 
That proviso applies only, if the workmen had been paid compensation tor 
10 days, and were again laid-off for a further period of more than one week 
atta tine. In the present case, there was one continuous lay-off for the 
entire period. It could not be disputed and denied. That being so, 
praviso (b) to section 26C could have no application. By no straining of 
the language of that proviso, the present luy-off can be brought within its 
purview. The word ‘‘again’’ as used in proviso (b) to section 26C is very 
important and significant. That contemplates a second order of lay-oh, 
that is a separate and subsequent period of lay-off. In the present case, 
there was no such subsequent lay-off, but the origina] lay-off continues. 11 
any authority is needed for the view taken above, I may profitably cite 
the recent decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Modi Food 
Products & Co., Ltd., vs. Maquir Chand Sharma and others [1956Q) L.L.J., 
page 749]. In this case, their Lordships did not approve of the contrary 
view taken by the Labour Appellate Tribunal. 


In the result, the Tribunal holds that al] the workers barring Nos. (70), 
(71), (72), (73), (74), (7), (76), (77), (80), (81) and (82) shall get compen- 
sation’ only for 45 days as provided in proviso (a) to section 25C, and that 
they will get such compensation at the rate as provided in the body of 
section 26C, that is 90 per cent. of the total of the basic wages and dearness 
allowance. As regards workers Nos. (70), (71), (72), (73), (74), (75), (76), 
(77), (80), (81) und (82), direction has already been given as to what 
amount they will get as lay-off compensation. 


So, to be precise, it is awarded that the workers Nos. (72), (74), (75), 
hae (80) রি] (82) shall get compensation for Ld days, wor ) 


e 


cer No. (7 
or 18 days, workers Nos. (70), (76) and (81) for 17 days, wofker No. (71) 
for 24 days and the rest for 45 days only. Such amount of compensation 
shall be equal to 50 per cent. of the total of the basic wages and dearness 
allowance that aiid have been pavable to them, had they not been so 
laid-off, 


3100 | THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Pazr ] 


ক)... কির পক سرت سزرجیووپوچ چس‎ 


date of publication of this award in,the Calcutta Gazette. 


This is my award. 


- Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P, MUKHERJER, 
Judge. 
18-77-56. 


The 1611. July 1956. 


(1) Kumar Kr. Sarkar. 
(2) Haradhan Banerjee. 
(3) Nani Gopal Paul. 
(4) 8. Adhikary. 


(5) Ramesh Ch. Majumdar. 


(0) Sachindra Kr. Sarkar. 
(7) Rammoy Chakrabarty. 
(8) Bhairab Ch. Dawn. 
(9) Sudhir Chandra. 
(10) Paresh Banerjee. 
(11) Bimal Chatterjee. 
(12) Gopal Paul. . 
(13) Sudhir Sadhukhan. 
(14) Prafulla Pramanick. 
(15) Tejen Banerjee. 
(16) Ram Bhakta. 
(17) Banwari 1۰. 
(18) Baikuntha Mahapatra. 
(19) Sujoy Mondal. 
(20) Balaram Sohani. 
(21) Sudhir Dawn. 
(22) Suren Barua, 
(23) Lal Mohan Paul. 
(24) Kristo Santra. 
(25) Bulaki Jessoara. 
(26) Hare Krishto Patra. 
(27) Puna Mall. 
(2২) Prafulla Mondal. 
(29) Panchu Mullick. 
(30) Balaram Mahapatra. 
(81) Surendra Dey. 
(32) Lakshmi Bairagi. 
(33) Kanai Bose. 
(384) Sankar Bose. 
(35) Suskil Ganguly. 
(36) Baliraj Bhar. 
(37) Biswanath Mondal. 


(88) Satish Chandra Mondal. 


(39) Sewdas Jessoara. 
(40) Jogendra Bose. 
(41) Fulchand Kahar. 
(42) Nanu Goala. 


The payments as awarded avove must be made within one monthwf the 


7 


9. P. MUKHERJEE, | 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


(43) Bangshi Mistry. 

(44) 1 7۰ 

(45) Algu Kahar. 

(46) Bishnu Jessoara. 

(47) Rambali Baroi. 

(48) Harihar -Shaw. 

(49) Chandra Nath ۰ 
(90) Sarojit Chatterjee. 
(51) Dibakar Bhuyan, 

(62) Naresh Sarkar. 

(53) Kamal Kr, Ghose. 
(54) Naresh Ch. Roy. 

(55) Sadananda Paul. 

(56) Prohlad Mullick. 

(57) Ranen Sen. 

(98) Mahendra Bhuyan. 
(209) Pannalal Saha. 

(60) Niranjan Saha. 

(61) Muklal Bhar. 

(62) Jugal Mondal, 

(63) Natabar Paridha. 

(64) Murali Maharana. 
(65) Tarak Saha. 

(66) Ram Ch. Bera. 

(67) Ramdeo Panda. 

(68) Paresh Mahapatra. 
(69) Kali Mahapatra. 

(70) Jyotish Ch. Kar. 

(71) Phani Bhusan Biswas. 
(72) Murar: Mohan Khan. 
(73) Raghunath Dutta. 
(74) Debendra Nath Ghosh. 
(75) Hena Rauth. 

(76) Sudhanya Mukherjee. 
(77) Gaja Ram Kahar. 
(78) Sadhan Pakhira. 

(79) Rakhal Naskar. 

(80) Madhusudan Paul. - 
(81) Dhirendra Nath Rudra. 
(82) Baidyanath Panja. 
(83) Jitendra Mohan Chakrabarty. 
(84) Pabitra Kumar Halder. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJER, গলিত, 


Registered No. 6207 


Calrittta Gazrtte 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 


PART IA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 


and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF 
INDIA, CALCUTTA 


(1) Appeal No, Cal. 4 of 1955 
Messrs. Associated Electrical Industries (India), ۹ 


Calcutta সী ay 8 Appellants, 
versus 
Associated Electrical Industries (India), Ltd., "00 گ٦‎ 
Welfare Association, Calcutta . Respondents. 


(2) Appeal No. Cal. 5 of 1955 
Associated Klectrical Industries (India), Ltd., Oe, 


Welfare Association, Calcutta Appellants, 
versus 
Messrs. Associated Electrical Industries (India), Ltd., 
Calcutta ae rr Respondents. 


% 


in the matter of appeals against the award of Shri C. Palit, Judge, Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta, made on 11th November 1954, in respect of 
industrial disputes between the above parties. 


Dated the 27th February 1956. 


PRESENT : 


Mr. M.N. GAN, President. 
Mr. V. N. DIKSHITULU, Member. 


= 


Appearances: 


For the Company: Shri K. B. Basu, Counsel. 
For the Umion: Shri D. lL. Sengupta, Advocate, 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry: Electricity. 


DECISION 


The Government of West Rengal in its order No. 21961)15.11))101,-1101 
53, dated 11th June 1953, referred to the Fifth Industrial Tribunal, West 
Bengal, for udjudication an industrial dispute between Messrs. Associated 
Electrical Industries (India), Ltd. (hereinafter to be referred to as the 


310 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr IA 
—————————————————————————— ০০০ 


787 and, their employees represented by Associated Electrical Indus- 
tries (India), Ltd. Employees’ Welfare Assaciation (hereafter to be referred 
to as the Union) regarding (1) additional benefit of gratuity, (2) tiffin 
allowance, and (3) bonus for the years 1950 and 1951. The Tribunal by its 
award, dated 1161) November 1954, and published in the Calcutta Gazette, 
dated 9th December 1954, under the orders of the Government of West 
Bengal No. 5574Dis./D/10L/1380/54, dated 27th November 1954, granted 
(1) gratuity payable at the rate of 15 days’ salary for each completed year 
of service up to a maximum of 16 months, in cases of retirement or term1- 
nation of service except on grounds of misconduct; (2) disallowed the claim 
to tiffin allowance; and (3) granted three months’ salary or } of the year’s 
earnings as bonus for the year 1951 and refused to grant any bonus for 1950 
on the ground that the claim was a belated one. Against that award Appeal 
No. Cal. 4 of 1955 is preferred by the Company contending that gratuity 
and bonus for 1951 নি not to be awarded and Appeal No. Cal. 5 of 1955 
is preferred by the employees represented by the Union contending that 
gratuity at the rate of one month’s salary per each completed year of service 
should have been awarded and that the misconduct disentitling an employee 
to gratuity should have been specificed as one involving moral turpitude, 
that tiffin allowance ought to have been awarded in view of their ule dae 
being below fair wage level and that bonus ought to have been awarded 
for both 1950 and 1951 at 6 months’ basic pay per year though the claim 
10,1950 was made a bit late because the employees did not know the profit 
position of the Company earlier. 


2. IsSue 1 (Gratuity).—There is one retirement benefit of Provident 
Fund available to the employees of the Company and gratuity is claimed 
as a second or additional retirement benefit. It has been repeatedly held 
by this Tribunal (one among several decisions was referred to by the lower 
Tribunal), that there is nothing wrong in awarding two retirement benefits 
and that such an award is even desirable in the interests of social justice 
ہا‎ enable the employees ৮০- have something to fall back upon during old 
age or incapacity for further work on account of any other causes to which 
human body is heir to and that the only limitation subject to which the 
award should be made is the capacity of the concern to bear the financial 
burden involved and that in view of the fact that retirement benefits are 
long range arrangements, the test of capacity should depend upon the 
past and present prosperity of the concern and stability so as to ensure 
possibilities of future prosperity too. 


3. This is a private limited Company which has been doing its business 
successfully ever since 1924. There has been not even an allegation of loss 
having been suffered in any year during this more than quarter of a 
century. Reserves amounting to many times the amount contributed b 
the share-holders in cash were capitalised by way of bonus shares and still 
there are reserves. 0.۱۷۰. 2 swore that in 1945 and 1947 dividends were 
declared at 25 per cent. and in 1950 and 1951 at 10 per cent. including 
bonus shares. Actua] profits in 1950 and 1951 according to profit and loss 
account indicate much greater prosperity than can be indicated by the 
dividends of 10 per cent. spoken to by O.P.W. 2. The Company contends 
that since 1949 operating expenses have been rising and that the value of 
orders received in recent years dropped. However, Ext. B shows that the 
rise and drop are not so alarming as to tell on the stability of the concern, 
{The main business of the Company is installation of heavy electrical 
machinery in pursuance of orders secured from al] over the country, for 
which business there ‘is a great future in this country which has undertaken 
systematised and planned economy towards industrialisation with the help 
of all sources of power including electricity. The biggest customer of the 
Company has been the Government of India. The fears expressed by the 
learned representative for the Company are based more upon possible 
changes in Governmental policies in regard to imports of heavy electrical 
machinery from foreign countries rather than upon what is inherent in the 
nature of the business of the concern and its future possibilities. It will 
take a long, long time before this country can produce its own heavy 
electrical machinery without which no Government can change its import 
policies. Hence we are not in a position to share his fears which are, 
at present at any rate, unfounded. Thus the Company has been and is 
prosperous and all indications are in favour of its future prosperity, and the 
prosperity has stabilised itself for over a quarter of a century. 31008 we 
agree with the lower Tribunal that there is justification for introducing 
2 second retirement benefit to the employees, 


The employees of this very Company serving at its Bombay office‏ ,4 ے 
have secured, by an award, dated 29th December 1950, and published in‏ 
the Bombay Gazette of that Government, dated 25th January 1951, under‏ 
the orders of the Bombay Government No. 1026148, dated 17th J anuary‏ 
gratuity at one month’s salary;for each year of completed service.‏ ,1951 
This fact does not appear to have been drawn to the attention of the lower‏ 
Tribunal. If it was drawn, a discrimination between the employees of‏ 
the Company at Bombay and Calcutta would not have been possible in the‏ 
matter of the rate of gratuity. There ought not to he any difference‏ 
between retired servants of the Company at Bombay and at Calcutta. On‏ 
behalf of the Company it was contended that gratuity at one month’s pay‏ 
per each completed year of service would involve the Company in an‏ 


Part TA] THE CAICXUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 ৪1] 


ee eee a: 


additional expenditure of Rs. 44,000 a year. The total wage bill itself, 
even taking all branches of the Company into consideration, is much less. 
It is doubtful whether at any time, even in the future, the gratuity bill 
can come to so much as the monthly wage bill. Hence we believe that 
gratuity even at one month’s pay per completed year will not involve a 
burden too much for the Company to bear. Hence we raise the rate of 
gratuity awarded by the lower Tribunal to one month’s wages per each 
completed year of service. 


6. The lower Tribunal excluded employees who 7 to be dismissed 
for misconduct from the benefit of gratuity. The employees contend that 
those dismissed for misconduct involving moral turpitude alone should be | 
excluded. Moral turpitude is a vague thing which may not be easy to 
define in actual practice. The better thing will be to exclude employees 
whose services are terminated for misconduct involving the کت‎ in 
pecuniary loss, from the benefit of gratuity. We introduce this alteration 
in the award of the lower Tribunal. 


6 IsSue 2 (Tiffin allowance).—The first question is whether the appeal 
in this respect is maintainable under section 7 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 (hereafter referred to as the said Act). It 
is contended on behalf of the employees that the claim is described by, the 
Company in its written statement as one for additional salury and hence 
the claim relates to ‘‘wages’’ and that hence the appeal is one contemplated 
by section 7(1)(b)(i) of the said Act. As against how the Company 
described the claim, we find that the employees described it in their 
written statement as an allowance and not as wages. But we cannot decide 
the matter merely on the strength of how either party described thé claim. 
We must analyse the nature of the claim and see if it falls within the 
definition of ‘‘wages’’ in the said Act. ‘‘Wages’’ means remuneration 
payable in respect of the employment or of the work done in the employ- 
ment, whereas an allowance, which is not defined in the Act, means a 
stated quantity of money to meet expenses. The two are essentially 
different as an sallowance cannot be remuneration. Hence it became 
necessary for Parliament to expressly include allowances within the defini- 
tion of ‘‘wages’’; but, this is done under stated circumstances, viz., that 
the allowance should be such as the workman is for the time being, 
entitled to, so that an allowance which is merely claimed but rejected by the 
lower Tribunal cannot be ‘‘wages’’ for purposes of the said Act, as work- 
men are not entitled to it for the time being, 1.e., at the time when the 
appeal is preferred. Tiffin allowance claimed by the employees not being 
remuneration payable in respect of employment, or of work in the employ 
ment, the justification for the allowance should be based upon the fact that 
tifin has to be eaten during working hours at or near the place of work 
and away from home and hence is likely to cost more than what it would 
cost the employee at home and hence it should be a compensator 
allowance like daily allowance usually granted when an employee is 
outside headquarters on duty. Hence we find that the claim is not for 
“‘wages’’ as defined in the said Act and hence this appeal does not lie 
under section 7(1)(b)(i) of the said Act. 


7. The learned representative for the employees argued in the alter- 
native that this appeal is maintainable by virtue of section 7(1)(a) of the 
suid Act as there is a substantial question of law involved in it. The 
Jower Tribunal expressed the opinion that tiffin allowance can be only an 
ex-gratia payment which cannot be claimed as of right. It igs contended 
that this opinion raises a substantial question of law, viz., whether it is 
ex-gratua payment. But the lower Tribunal] did not entirely base its 
decision on such opinion. It also held that the allowance could not be 
claimed by these employees as a condition of their service for neither a 
contract nor valid custom to pay tiffin allowance is proved which is a pure 
question of fact. If the decision of the lower Tribunal can be supported 
on this finding of fact, the alternative opinion that the claim is to an 
et-gratia payment cannot raise a substantial question of law, even 
assuming that it raises some sort of a question of law, for the simple 
reason that the decision of the lower Tribunal can be maintained even 
if this opinion is held to be wrong. The employees did not seek to rest 
their claim on the footing of compensatory allowance and no ewdence 
was ۵۲ا‎ in on that footing. Hence no finding on such footing was called 
for atid the finding that no contract or custom is proved is sufficient to 
support the decision of the lower Tribunal. We are of opinion that there 
is no substantial question of law involved and that this appeal in relation 
to issue 2 is not maintainable. 


8. Issue 3 (Bonus for 1950).—In 1950, the Company’s account ytar 
closed on 81۸۲ October and its accounts were audited and auditors’ report 

‘ was dated 2nd February 1951. Thé@ Company informed the Union on 3rd 
June 1951, of its decision to pay a bonus of one month’s basic pay for 
the irading year ending October 1950. The Union, on 6th August 1951, 
expressed the grateful thanks of the members for what was done. The 
bonus was paid and received admittedly without any demur at the time. 
Nothing happened till 28rd July 1952. Meanwhile an Industrial 
Tribunal of Bombay awarded bonus consisting of the basic earnings of 
the year 1900 to the employees of this Company in its Bombay branch 


312 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr TA 


পিস হস 
eS 


and it was publishgd in the Bombay Government Gazette, dated 24th 
April 1952. The Union at Calcutta got at a copy of that Gazette and on 
23rd July 1952 sentsthe letter Mx. 1(a) claiming bonus of two months’ pay 
for the Calcutta employees. The Company refused this demand. The 
lower Tribunal rejected this claim on the ground that it was belated and 
made long after accounts of the year 1950 were closed, thus necessitating 
the reopening of the accounts especially after payment of bonus consisting 
of one month’s wage was accepted without protest at the time. It is 
contended, on behalf of the Union, (1) that the bonus which the Company 
voluntarily paid was customary Puja bonus payment of which hus become 
a condition of service and that its acceptance by the employees does not 
estop the employees from cluiming profit تا‎ (2) that profit bonus can be 
claimed only after profit or loss is known and that it can be known only 
after the closing of the accounts and hence there must be reopening of 
accounts if enough provision is not made therein for bonus and that in 
this case the profit or loss could not be known except through the award 
of the Bombay Tribunal as the Company would not publish its profit and 
loss accounts and that their claim should not be rejected as belated as 
there is no period of limitation. 


9. We are not impressed with the contention that the employees are 
entitled to two varieties of bonus, viz., Puja bonus as a condition of service 
and another profit bonus. 1 is common case that no bonus was ever paid 
to thege employees prior to 1947. Thereafter varying amounts were paid 
as bonis year after year, before the Puja holidays. We fail to see how 
a custom or condition of service to pay bonus of one month’s wages could 
develop in this fashion by 1950. Therefore, we cannot believe that what 
was admittedly paid in 1951 for the trading year ending October 1950 and 
was received with gratefulness was in no sense a customary bonus which 
became a condition of service. The lower Tribunal did not base its award 
on grounds of estoppel or on any bar of limitation of time nor are we going 
te 00 so. But we are of opinion that the delay in this case has come about 
under circumstances which make it a right step in the interests of 
industrial peace and harmony to refuse the claim. Industrial Tribunals 
are created under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, for investigation and 
settlement of industrial disputes. If investigation and settlement of an 
industrial dispute by one Industrial Tribunal is used as a spring board for 

rojectiny another industrial dispute into an otherwise peaceful atmosphere 
it should be a most undesirable use of the Act which cannot be encouraged. 
When investigation into the history of an industrial dispute discloses that 
such was the case a legitimate way of settling that dispute is by rejecting 
‘the claim. In our case the Company voluntarily paid bonus consisting of 
one month’s wages for 1950 and it was accepted with grateful thanks. 
Long after that, a Bombay Tribunal presided over by Shri Sen awarded 
bonus consisting of 1/6%h of the year’s basic earnings after reducing 
therefrom the amount of one month’s wages already paid, to the employees 
of Bombay branch of the Company for 1950. On coming to know of it 
and after perusing the award the employees of Calcutta branch started 
the claim for more bonus for the same year 1950 for the reason that 
Bombay employees were given more. In the award of the Bombay 
Tribunal, claim for bonus for the year 1949 was rejected for the reason 
that the claim thereto was made after a delay of 15 months. The 
employees in our case should have realised that their demand on 23rd July 
1952 was being made after a delay of more than 20 months. If the Bombay 
award acted as an incentive for the demand made by the present employees 
on 28rd July 1952, the same award should have acted as a deterrent against 
advancing the claim after such a delay; but it did not deter them from 
making the demand and pressing it hard. The obvious reasoning of these 
employees must have been something like this: ‘‘Our brethren at Bombay 
have by raising a dispute secured an advantage beyond that we have got. 
Let us also raise a dispute and see what happens. Better lute than never. 
As to delay, let us hope for better luck than our Bombay brethren, before 
a different Tribunal’. The contention that the state of profit or loss of 
the Company was not known till the Bombay award was available as an 
excuse for the delay is only a convenient pretext in our opinion. Even 
after seeing the Bombay award, these employees could not have had 
knowledge of the exact amount of profit as it was not disclosed in that 
award. 17010 that award it could have been gathered only that there was 
enough profit to justify a bonus of 1/6th of the year’s basic edrnings 
reduced by one month’s wages already paid. Still, these Calcutta employees 
advanced their claim for bonus consisting of two months’ wages without 
reducing it by one month’s wage, already paid and accepted. It is clear 
ffom this also that the mentality of spreading the net wide and taking a 
chance was at the root and such knowledge as was acquired by a perusal 
of the Bombay award made them no wider for it. That being so, why | 
should Jack of knowledge of actual profit have prevented their claiming 
im August 1951 itself more than what was voluntarily offered by the- 
Company? It is cléar that this is a case of projecting a dispute in a 
speculative mood into an otherwise peaceful atmosphere thereby reopening 
a matter in which there was acceptance by one party to it with grateful 
thanks of what was voluntarily offered by the other and absolute peace 
following for 20 months thereafter, It is this circumstance that weighs 
with us more than any difficulty in reopening of closed accounts of 1950. 


Part IA] 


TITE CAICUTTA GAZETTE; AUGUST 9, 1956 


পাত 


কপ رھ‎ 


10. Frantic efforts ৮6161080600 convince ys that the demand on 
1th July 1952 was not the first demand for bonus for 1950 and that it 
was made even in the earlier letter (Ext. 1), dated 13th July 1951; but, 
the efforts fail just as they fuiled before the lower Tribupal for the simple 
reasons that there was no mention of bonus for 1950 in that letter. That 
letter also was an attempt to get some bonus with retrospective effect from 
1947 for the alleged reason that the Bombay employees got it under an 
award. The obvious reference was to the award of the Bombay Tribunal 
presided over by Shri Merchant referred to in the award of Shri Sen, for, 
Shri Merchant’s award was available before the date of Ext. I, whereas 
the later award of Shri Sen was not passed by the date of Ext. 1. 
Shri Merchant’s award covered bonus for the year 1947-48 and not the 
bonus for 1950. Hence Ext. 1 cannot be considered as containing a demand 
for bonus for 1950 though the expression ‘‘with retrospective effect from 
1947’? was used in it which, under other circumstances, may perhaps be 
used to cover demands up to the date of the letter. 


11. Under all the above circumstances, we are of opinion that the 
claim for bonus for 1950, beyond what was already paid, was rightly 
rejected by the lower Tribunal. 


12. 85588 3 (bonus for 1951).—The empolyees started their demand 
with a claim for bonus for 1951 at three months’ pay; but, during the 
roceedings before the Tribunal, they raised it to six months’ pay. The 
aoe Tribunal awarded three months’ pay as bonus on the footing that 
the available surplus on working out the formula of the Full Bench of this 
Tribunal would come to Rs. 3,00,000. The Company supplied the audited 
profit and loss account and balance-sheet for 1951 ‘‘pledged to secrecy” in 
the language of the lower Tribunal. The records disclose that the Company 
claimed that the document must be dealt with as confidential and the lower 
Tribunal agreed to do so, in which case section 21 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, provides that information obtained from such docu- 
ments shall not be included in the award. The lower Tribunal somehow 
referred to various figures that can be obtained from the said document 
alone. We ascertained from the learned advocate appearing for the 
Company that the claim under section 21 was never given up by the 
Company and that it is there even now. Hence we cannot include, in this 
decision, figures that can be got only from that document. We can only 
discuss 1n general terms the necessary and prior charges to be deducted 
from gross profit in order to arrive at the available surplus in terms of the 
Full Bench formula and arrive at our own conclusion whether any bonus 
can be awarded and if 960১১ how much. 


13. The first item of charge is statutory depreciation about which no 
serious objection was urged on behalf of the employees. 


14. The next item is the income-tax. It is contended on behalf of 
the employees that income-tax is not payable on the amount of bonus and 
that hence deduction on account of imcome-tax must be made only after 
ascertaining the amount of bonus. There is no purpose to be served in 
deducting or not deducting income-tax after bonus is ascertained. It is 
true that income-tux is not payable on that part of profit which is paid as 
bonus; but, the amount of bonus can be determined only from the surplus 
available after deducting necessary charges. .Income-tax is undoubtedly 
a necessary charge after deducting which alone the measure of the pros- 
perity of the concern in which the employees are entitled to participate 
can be ascertained. It is true that the concern will later get refund of 
income-tax on that part of the profit which is paid as bonus. Therefore, 
this circumstance can ما‎ taken into consideration in distributing the 
available surplus between the employees and the concern. But income-tax 
cannot be held back till after the ascertainment of available surplus which 
course, if foJlowed, will give a wrong picture of the prosperity of the 
concern. 


15. On behalf of the Company, a chart of calculation according to 
the Full Bench formula was submitted before the lower Tribunal. In it 
no reserve for rehabilitation, replacement and modernisation was deducted 


expressly. In its place deduction of 20 per cent. for general reserves was‏ ۔ 


claimed. It js argued that the Full Bench formula was primarily intended 
for textile industry and that the same should be applied to other industries 
with suitable modifications and that, as in this case there 1s no manu- 
facturing plant and machinery, general reserves should be allowed to be 
built”up for financial stability of the concern. There is no objection to 
the Company's building up any amoynt of reserves actually from its 
profita. The Full Bench formula is intended only for a specific purpose 
and adopted certuin prior and necessary charges as deductable from gross 
profits for the specific purpose of ascertaining available surplus which 19 
supposed to supply the measure of the 000 in which the employees 
ate entitled to participate and get bonus. Such being the case, it is not 
permissible to add items of prior charges not found in the Full Bench 
formula. Reserve for rehabilitation was provided in the formula because 
when plant and machinery are actually getting depreciated in value far 
beyond the depreciation allowed by the Income-tax Act, by constant use 
in the industry, it will not be possible to maaaure the prosperity of the 
industry. without providing for such depregggamm from profits accruing 


08 


নাজ 


পল পি শা ৪ শপ ٹوو‎ 0007 
تعسو‎ শা এ সস اہم‎ পপ পপ উপসসপাক ”لے سے و ہے‎ 


4 


THE 04140010104 GAZETTE, AUGUST 9 6 


fram the industry. Therefore it is a matter of taking into consideration, 
the actual need for rehabilitation of machinery used in the industry and 
not a matter for setting by sufficient reserves in the interest of the stability 
of an industry. On behalf of the Company it is next contended that, if so, 
value of buildings, motor cars, fares, etc., available from the balance-sheet 
should be multiplied by 2.25 and 2.7 to get at the value necessary for 
rehabilitation, etc., and that the balance, after deducting total deprecia- 
tion, should be spread over 30 years and 15 years as was done in some 
decisions. Decisions are given on facts of the particular cases. The 
multiple has to be ascertained on the basis of the date of purchase of the 
assets and the time when rehabilitation may become necessary. In _ this 
(8৮36 no evidence was adduced on these points. Why should anybody 
assume that buildings or machinery will cost 2.25 or 2.7 times, at some 
unknown future time, more than what they cost at an unknown past time? 
fience no deduction on account of rehabilitation, etc., can be made and 
the deduction of 20 per cent. towards General reserves 1s not permissible 
for purposes of না bonus. 


16. The next item is return on capital. The capital of this Company 
consists partly of shares for which cash was paid and partly of bonus 
shares. The Company claimed return of 10 per cent. on the former and 
5 per cent. on the latter. The Jower Tribunal allowed 6 per cent. on both. 
The first objection on behalf of the employees is that the lower Tribunal 
allowed return on bonus shares more than what the Company itself claimed. 
This, in our opinion, is a valid objection. We are of opinion that the 
refurn should have been limited to 5 per cent. It is next contended by 
the employees that the return on bonus shares should be only as much as 
the return on reserves used as working capital and no more. We do not 
agree. Reserves when converted into bonus shares cease to be liquid 
assets and cannot be withdrawn. But on the other hand bonus shares 
represent not exclusively capital resources of share-holders but only past 
rofits earned with the help of the labour of employees also. Hence on 
onus shares, return .shotld be allowed at a rate less than that allowed on 
shares issued for cash but more than what is usually allowed on reserves 
used as working capital. We consider that 5 per cent. is the proper rate 
in this case. The Company repeats its claim for return at 10 per cent. on 
the capital consisting of shares issued for cash on the ground that the 
concern is running a risky trade in which the annual turnover runs into 
crores of rupees whereas the capital is a few lakhs of rupees and that hence 
a return higher than 6 per cent. allowed in the Full Bench formula must 
be allowed. On carefully considering the matter we do not see any 
reason to differ from the lower Tribunal in holding that 6 per cent. is a 
reasonable return in this case. 


17. The next deduction claimed is return of 4 per cent. on reserves 
used as working capital. It was allowed by the lower Tribunal against 
the opposition of the employees whose point of view is that it is not proved 
that reserves were at all used as working capital and at any rate for the 
entire year and that in any event only 2 per cent. return should be allowed. 
We are of opinion that there can be no hard and fast rule with regard 
to the rate. The principle is that on such reserves a reasonable rate of 
return should be allowed. The reasonable rate in our opinion 
should be in the vicinity of loan market rate. Four per cent. has been 
the usual rate allowed in awards passed in recent years and it approximates 
to loan market rate. As to Pree of user of reserves as working capital, 
we accept the evidence of the accountant of the Company (O.P.W. 2). 
His saying that it was ‘‘difficult’”’ to show with reference to documents that 
reserves were used in the business 17011) time to time does not mean that 
the point has not been proved at all. Tle made the necessary calculations 
and gave evidence. ©0.P.W. 1 also swore that reserves were used as work- 
ing capital. This oral evidence can be safely accepted. 2ھ‎ this Company 
took heavy loans, it can be safely assumed that it must have utilised all its 
reserves for working capital اج‎ then borrowed for excess needs. 


18. Then the next item claimed by the Company as a prior charge is 
interest at the rate of 4 per cent. on interest-free loan secured by the 
Company for use in the business. The employees strongly opposed. this 
claim of the Company on the ground that thane should be no such prior 
chuige because the concern paid no interest on the loan and no return can 
be expected by the Company on such moneys. <A_ close perusal of the 
balarice-sheet shows that there were sundry unsecured debts due to the 
Company extending over more than the amount of interest-free loan. If, 
the Company wants pro forma interest on the loan for which no interest 
was payable, then they must و‎ pro forma interest on the sundry debts 
on which admittedly no interest was realised. Interest-free loans obtained 
hy the Company would have helped the business just as much as the interest- 
free advances to subsidiary Companies and others would have done. 
Interest-free loans were secured from A.E.]. Finance which is a subsidiary 
Company of A.K.I., London, which i4a shareholder of this Company. 
Therefore, the claim of the Company that 4 per cent. interest on interest- 
free loans should be allowed as a prior charge cannot be accepted. 


19. The last item glajmed us a prior charge is interest at 4 per cent. 
on working capital sr@jjded by some special facilities secured from 


(Parr 1A 


Part TA] THE CATAMITTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 16 


Companies 7010 whom this Company purchased machinery. It is said that 
normally two months’ credit is allowed for payment in respect of goods 
imported but that a special facility wus secured by this Company of paying 
4 months after date of shipment. We are not able to accede to the claim 
that this facility should first be valued in money and that a return of 4 
per cent. on it should be allowed as a prior charge. Theoritically at least, 
prices of goods sold on short credit must be so fixed as to include interest 
also. ‘Therefore, though interest as such is not separately charged, it 
must be deemed to have been included in the price paid. Also, it 29 
admitted that this Company is not charging interest under similar cir- 
cumstances from its customers chief among whom is the Government ‘of 
India, For reasons similar to those discussed in the previous paragraph, 


we agree with the lower Tribunal in holding that this item cannot be 
allowed. 


0. Not being able to refer to actual figures is a handicap, but there is 
no help against it as even charts of calculation were claimed to be 
confidential and sent by the lower Tribunal in a special cover. The wage 
bill of these employees per month is Its. 37,000, so that bonus awarded 
by the lower Tribunal amounts to Rs. 1,11,000 which works at about one- 
third of the available surplus which will be arrived at if calculated takin: 
into consideration the above items. The needs of the Compan ile 
from the nature of the business carried on by it involving annual turnover 
running into 2 or 3 crores of rupees whereas the paid up capital is a few 
lakhs of rupees justify, in our opinion, distribution of available surplus 
in the ratio of 2:1 between the Company and its employees. The number 
of employees is said to be less than 400. Rs. 37,000 spread over them 
gives a rough idea of the average wage level, viz., just less than Rs. 100 
per month. At such a wage level, we consider that three months’ wages 
us bonus are fair to the employees. 6ء116‎ we confirm the rate of bonus 
awarded for 1951 by the lower Tribunal. We neither increase it as desired 
by the employees nor decrease as desired by the Company. 


21. In the result the employees’ appeal succeeds and the Company’s 
appeal fails on issue No. 11; the employees’ appeal fails on issue No. 2 and 


appeals of both fail on issue No. 8. Under the circumstances each party 
shall bear its own costs. 


M. N. GAN, President. 
V. N. DIKSHITULU, Member. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 


Dated New Delhi-2, July 22, 1956 


No. WB-LA/83/56(15)-Bye.—In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 114 
of the Representation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election 
Petitions) Rules, 1951, the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
Schedule below who, having been nominated as a candidate for election to 
the West Bengal Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified in 
the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof at the bye-election held in 
April, 1956, and having appointed himself to be his election agent at the 
said election, has, in او ا‎ with the decision given by the Election 
Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge the return 
of election expenses within the time and in the manner required and has 
thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause (c) of section .7 and 


Section 143 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (XLITI of 1951), 
is hereby -published سس‎ 


Schedule 
Namo cf the candidate. Namo of constituency, 
1 2 


Shri Anath Das, villago Athilagori, post offico Contai, Midnapore 7 Khejri. 


By order, 


A. KRISHNASWAMY 7۰ھ‎ 
Secretary to the Election Commission. 


816 THE 0۸11117۸ GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1056 


(Parr IA 


َڑٍھوھوم و إ۰وڈس._ی مممر۔ےےے/س_ےجچ_ڑکڑھھککک a en‏ 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 


New Delhi, the 28th May 1956 


NOTIFICATION 


No, MII-159(7)56.—Im_ exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 5 of the Mines and Minerals 
(Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (IIT of 
1948), the Central Gtovernment hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Mineral 
Concession Rules, 1949, namely ہے‎ 


Amendment 


In the said rules, for Schedule 1V, the following 
Schedule shall be substetuted, namely :— 


“SCHEDULE IV 


Specified Minerals 
(See rules 18, 26 and 45) 


Coal and lignite; gypsum; appatite and 
phosphatic ores, sulphur and its ores; 
vanadium ores; tungsten ores; pitchblende 
and other uranium ores;  columbite, 
samarskite and other minerals of the ‘rare 
earths’ group;  uraniferous  allanite; 
monazite and other thorium minerals; 
uranium bearing tailing left over from ores 
after extraction of copper and_ gold; 
ilmenite and other titanium ores; zircon; 
Rutile and beryl; iron ore, manganese ore 
and chrome ore; lead, zine, copper, and 
nigkel ores; tin and molybdenum; gold, 
silver, platinum and other precious metala 
and their ores; and precious stones;’’. 


R. N. VASUDEVA, Deputy Secretary. 


ws 


COVERNMENT OF BOMBAY 


Home Department (Political) 


NOTIFICATION 


No. BAP4156/0.2955Poll.—24th July 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Government of Bombay 
that the preface to a pamphlet in Marathi 
entitled “Golibarachi Chowkashi Zalich Pahije”’ 


(i.e., Firing must.be enquired into), printed by 
Shri N. M. More at رت‎ Printing Press, 
Naigaum, 1301))1)8)-14) and published by. Shri 
Sahebrao Kokate, C/o “Central Prakashan”, New 
Charn1 Road, Bombay-4, contains matter which 
is intended to promote feelings of hatred between 
the (rujaratis and the Maharashtrians and the 
publication of which is punishable under section 
153-A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Act XLV 
of 1860); 

2. Now, therefore, the Government of Bombay, 
in exercise of the powers conferred by section 00۸ 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V 
of 1898), hereby declares all copies of the afore- 
said pamphlet to be forfeited to Government on 
the ground specified in paragraph 1 of thia noti- 
fication. 


By order and in the name of the 


(sovernor of Bombay, 
M. I. QAZI, Asstt, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE ۱۷۰ 
SION) 


New Delhi, the 14th July 1956 ৬ 


NOTIFICATION 
INCOME-TAX ESTABLISHMENTS 


No. 112.—The undermentioned officers have been 
appointed as Income-tax Officer, Class II, in a 
quasi-permanent capacity with effect from the 
date noted against each :— 


Serial Name of the officer. Commissioner’s Date from 


No. charge in which 

which posted. declared 

quasi- per: 

manent. 

1 a ۰٥ wi * 8 * ক 
2 Shri D. 06. Rajagopalan Calcutta 1.7.54 
3 Shri 8. K. Chakraborty Ditto. 1-7-54 

4 * a # * * + % 
5 Shri N. N. Das Caloutta 1-754. 
6 Shri R. K. Choudhury Ditto. 1.7-64., 
7 Shri T. Subba Rao Ditto. 1-7-54. 


P. ও. KATCKER, Under Secy.- 


Registered No. C207 


Calcutta 


(9211৮ 


THUREDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA. 


Results of the Compartmental and Special ۱۰۸۰ and ٥0۰ 
Examinations, August, 1955. 


GRDERS BY THE VICE-CHANCELLOR AND 
SYNDICATE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA. 


Senate House, the 28th September, 1955. 


1. The undermentioned candidates who appeared at the 
J.A. Examination, held in August, 1955, in one subject 
only under section 4C (Compartmental Rules), Chapter 
XXXI (1.A.) of the University Regulations and passed in 
that subject are now declared to have passed the I.A. 
Examination :— 


AGARTALA MAHARAJA BIR BIKRAM COLLEGE. 
Roll Agar. Comp. 

1 Sukhamay Majumdar. 

AMTA RAMSADAY COLLEGE. 

Roll Cal. Comp. F. 

110 Gita Chattopadhyay. 

ARAMBAGH NETAJ! MAHAVIDYALAYA. 

Roll Cal. Comp. 


430 Anilkrishna Ray. 

431 Anilkumar Karmakar. 
432 Dilipkumar Gayen. 
433° Harimohan Ghoshal. 
4} Gobardhan Mandal. 
4385 Sitalchandra Kundu. 


ASANSOL COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


٦ Gopalkrishna 1১691, 
€ Bijaykumaer Chattopadhyay. 
388 Hitansubhushan Chattopadhyay. 


ASANSOL MANIMALA GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
111 Hasi Ghoshbhajra, 


ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roll 081. Comp. 


92 Nikhilkumar Majumdar, 

93 Subratapriya _Mahinta. 

94 Bhabaniprag@d Mukhopadhyay. 
06 Tindaynt alalka. 

97 Md. Idris Khan, 

98 Manindranath Bhattacharyya. 
99 17508 Jon. 

100 DikpRumaa Das. 

109 Resamkumar Sanyal. 

103 Biewanath Ray. 

105 Maniklal 1 +۰ 

106 Alokkumar Chakrabarti. 

107 Pradip Guhathakurta, 

100 Aunpkali Raychaudhuri. 

110 Asishkumar Sarkar. 

111 Amalkrishna Bandyopadhyay. 
118 M. Ramanathan. 

114 Raghu Banshi Prasad. 

118 Samirkumar Bhattacharyy 
323 Jatindranath Baka, 

324 Timirbaran Bast.” 

326 Sachindratmth Chakrabarti. 
327) Jyotishchandra Datta. 

828 Sanjitkumar Datta. 

329 Jatindralal De. 

330  Santkariprasad - Ghosh. 

২১২১ 81711018980 Lahiri. 

33 Subodhkumar Raychaudhufi. 


ASHUTOSH COLLEGE. 


৪8918 Cal. Comp. 


Chandidas Mitra. 

Shanti Sohan Jeswal. 
Purushottam Dass Daruka. 
Paresnarayan Basu. 
Sureschandra Bhaumik. 
Biswaranjan Ray, 
Brajagopal Goswami. 

Raj گور ان‎ Pandey, 

Jag Mohan Lakhotia, 

R. Sitwraman. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Pranati Ghosh. 

Sushama Chattopadhyay. 
Arati Mukhopadhyay. 
Maya Gangopadhyay. 
Reba Dasgupta. 

Sipra Chattopadhyay. 
Pratima Bandyopadhyay. 
Nandita Basu. 

Dipika Chakrabarti, 
Uma Gangopadhyay. 
Puja Mitra. 

Sunita Chattopadhyay, 
Sarama Das. 

Mamata Chattopadhyay. 
Manjusri Sarkar (Mrs. Raha). 
Krishna Ray. 

Sobha Sengupta, 
Manjulika Ray. 

Gita Ghoshal, 

Srilekha Ghosh, 
Maitreyi Datta. 

Chhabi Datta (Mrs. Basu). 
Amita Gangopadhyay. 
Anita Sinharay. 
Suchitra Pal. 

Dipahi Mitre, 

Bharati Mukhopadhyay, 
Hemlata Mugatlal Bole. 


BALURGHAT COLLEGE. 
Roll Sill, Comp. 


Radhacharan Saha. 
Jatindranath Adhikari. 
Sibaprasad Chaki. 
Purnachandra ى۰‎ 
Santoshkumar Sanyal. 
Chittaranjan Chakrabarti. 
Sudhirkumar De. 
Sukomalchandra Sarkar. 


Roll Sill, Comp. F. 


Manjusri Nag. 
Arati Ray, 


BANGABASI COLLEGE, 
011 Cal. Comp. 


Harimohan PaL 
Jibankrishna Chakrabarti. 
Radhakisor Basu. 
Ramweprasad Bhattacharyya. 
Satyendrakumar Mitra. 
Debdas 1881٣۰٣۸ ۰ا‎ 
Gokulananda Brahmachari. 
Indubhyshan Biswas. 
Dobsprasad Bhattacharyya. 
Bijankumar Chakrabarti. 
Taraknath Naskar, 
Sunilkumar Biswas. 
Amalendu Nag. 

নদ পি Sur, 


404 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


Parr [7‏ ا 


কানা, 


BANGABAS! COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


116 Penchugopal Mukhopadhyay. 

351 Gaurangachandra Kar. 

852 Pulinbihari Datta. — 

353. Jnanendranath Dhali. 

354 Shah Alam. 

355 Akhilkumar Bandyopadhyay. 

357. Haripada Sarkar. 

358 Ruhidas Ray. 

359 Phanindranath Qupta. 

378 Sunil Ray. 

BANGAON DINABANDHU MAHAVIDYALAYA. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
390 Upendranath Sakhari. 
909 Kbfidas Chattopadhyay. 
BANKURA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE. 

এ Roll Cal, Comp. 

393 Lakshminearayan Mukhopadhyay. 

394 Hasan Imam. 


395 Jayantikumar Datta. 
BARASAT GOVT. INTERMEDIATE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 
590 Sunilkanti Majumdar. 


Rolt Cal. Comp. F. 
112 Pratima Pal. 


BARISHA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
397 Robindra Kumar Biswas. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, BARISHA COLLEGE. 
Roll .اد6‎ Comp. FN. 
46 Jolly Rai. 
BASIRHAT COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
398 Satyanath Bhattacharyya. 
390 Chandidas Mandal. 
400 Harendranath Mandal. 
401 Sudhirkumar Mandal. 
402 Md. Abdul Gaffar. 
403 Manindranath Datta. 
404 Sudhinkumar Lahiri. 
406 Pannalal Nath. 
407 Sudhanyakumar Mandal, 
409 Md. Abdur Rahman. 
410 Radhesyam Biswas. 
413 Jaydeb Saha. 


7011 Cal. Comp. F. 
113 Reba Ray. 
BERHAMPORE GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. ۴۰ 


1158 Namita Bandyopadhyay. 

116 Aruna Bhattacharyya. 

117. Menkumari Dhara (Mrs. Bag). 

119 Prarthana Sen. 

120 Chhanda Bhaduri. _ 

122 Pushpaija Sinha. 

BERHAMPORE KRISHNATH COLLEGE. 

Roll Cal. Comp. 


414 Md. Asraf Ali. 
415 Muhammad Innastullah. | 
416 Jayantakumar Mukutmani. 


BETHUNE COLLEGE. 
Roll Caj. Comp. F. 


Mira Chattopadhyay. 
Bira Majumdar. 
Dipali Basak. 

Sikha Ray. 


BISHNUPUR RAMANANDA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
422 Samirkumar Ghosh. 
BOGULA SRIKRISHNA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. ‘Comp. 
§85 Anilchandra Das. 


BOLPUR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. 001), 


43 Kartikchandra Bandyopadhyay, 
424 Sudhirkumar Sarkar. 

426 Srikumar Chattopadhyay. 

427 Sambhunath Datta. 

428 Sibnarayan Datta. 

420 Jyotirmay Mallik. 


© Ov 4৯ ৩৩ 


BOLPUR COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal, Comp. F. 
124 Chameli Das. 


BURDWAN RAJ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


436 Debidas Mukhopadhyay. 

437 Amanullah Mohammed Akbar. 
438 Nikhilananda Sar. 

441 Dharmadas Pal. 

442 Mollah Tamizuddin. 

443 Dilipkumar Gangopadbyay. 


Roll Cail. Comp. F. 
125 টা, Ghosh. 
Chhabi Chattopadhyay. 


CENTRAL CALCUTTA COLLEGE, 
Roll Gal. Comp. জা. 


5 Mohammad Hanif. 

6 Abu Mohammad Quasim. 
7 Mohammad Qais an, 

8 Md. Tahir Hossain. 

9 Gazi Abdur Rashid. 

0 Syed Abdullah Al-Mamun. 


CHANDERNAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


446 Anilbhushan Chattopadhyay. 
449 Jagannath Bandyopadhyay. 


Roll Cal, Comp. F, 


127 Rekha Mukhopadhyay. 
199 Debaprabha De. 


CHARUCHANDRA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cat. Comp. 


119 Subhashchandra Basu. 

120 Santiranjan Bandyopadhyay. 
121 Kalidas Kanjilal. 

122 Ajitkumar Ray. 

125 Sankarkumar Haldar. 

126 Sailendranath De, 

127 Abanikumar Haldar. 

128 Debiprasad Bandyopadhyay. 
129 Santibhushan Mukhopadhyay. 
131 Tusharranjan Chattopadhyay. 
132 Raj Narain Pandey. 

163 Akhilchandra Biswas. 

165 ‘lejeskumar Bhattacharyya. 
166 Nimai Gupta. 

364 Sunitkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
365 Jnankirti Sraman, 

366 Bijyaynerayan Chattopadhyay. 
367 Nirmalendu Das. 

368 Nirmalendu Kar. 

371 Subhashkumar Sarkar. 

372 Ranjitkumar Debnath. 

373 Sasankaprasad Ghosh. 

374 Sunilkumar Rakshit. 


Rolt Cal. Comp. F. 


73 ~Dipali Guha. 
74 Sobha Ray. 
104 Nandita Sinha. 


CITY COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 
43 Jahar Das. 
44 Pranabkumar Basu. 
45 Kamalbaran Gupta. 
46 V. Krishna Iyer. 
47 13. Govinda Prabhu. 
48 A. V. Velayudhan. 
49 Jnaneswar Chakrabarti. 
50 Himadrikumar Gupta. 
51 Gitananda Chandra. 
52 Tejamay Ghosh. 
3ة‎ Bimalkumar Gangopadhyay 
133. Panna Lal Shaw. 
134 -Ratanmani Bhattacharyya. 
1385 Binaykrishna Ray. 
136 Pareskumar Majumdar. 
138 Praphullakumar Manna. 
140 Prabirkumar Raychaudhuri. 
141 sree Chakrabarti, I (Regn»No. 19863 of 1953 


142 Kavi Mazahar Ali. 

143. Dhirendranath Sanyal. 
144 Nisithkusfar Sarkar, 

146 Gopikaranjan Chaudhuri, 
147 Girindrakumar Das 

148 Kalyan Dasgupta. 

149 Rasbihari Manna. 3 
150 Arabindalkgts#ha Bandyopadhyay. 
151 kuma® Chattopadhyay 
162 Dulalchandra Chanda. 

153 , Jyotirmay Ray, ” 
167 Pankajkanti 80+. 
158 Santiranjan Dattabanik. 
160 Padmanidhi Dhar. 

180 Lakshminarayan Haldar. 


Part IB] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 456 


ماس سد সপ সপ = PA PAE OS OS‏ - : : فا 


CITY COLLEGE. 


Roli Cal. Comp. 


182 Kshitischandra Das, I pee m. No. 15273 of 1953-54). 
183 Keshitischandra Das, 11 (Regn. No, 13043 of 195 


54). 
185 Sibendranath Basu. 
187 Umaprasad Chattopadhyay. 
1 Amarendra Bhattacharyya. 
189 Anilkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
193 Radha Mohan Maheshwari. 
196 Deo Kumar حا‎ 
197 Shiv Kumar Kiyal. 
198 Bijay Kumar Moossaddee. 
199 Bajrang Lal Kedia. 
200 Madan Lal Dhanuka, 
201 Duli Chand Gupta. 
204 Bhagirath Agarwal. 
205 Purushottam Das 13880, 
206 Bimalkumar Ghosh. 
207 Jagadbandhu Ghosh. 
208 Dulalmohan Pal. 
210 Gobindabihari Sarkar. 
211 Nilratan Sinha. 
212 Inder Sain Jain. 
9۶14 D’almieda Helario Felix Xavier. 
216 Abdullah. 
217 Chandrakant Premchand Sheth. 
220 Kshaunischandra Maitra. 
221 Sarojkumar Mal. 
222 Sankariprasad Mukhopadhyay. 
223 Rathindralal Ray. 
224 Sibnath Sen. 
225 Lalmohan Sil. 
226 Sk. Abdul Hakim. 
227 Mrigendranath Bandyopadhyay. 
228 Sripada Ray. 
220 Gaurisankar Raykarmakar, 
230 Bhagwan Saraf. 
231 Sukumar Sen. 
232 Badalchandra Mukhopadhyay. 
233 Lakshminarayan Mukhopadhyay. 
234 Debendranath Mukhopadhyay. 
235 Amarendranath Mukhopadhyay. 
236 Subalchandra Pal. 
238 Dhirendrachandra Datta. 
239 Binayranjan Ghosh. 
241 Tarakeswar Ray. 
243 Dhananjay Son. 
246 8. Siva Raman. 
247 A. V. Sreedharan Nayar. 
249 Ram Niranjan Kedia. 
251 Nand Lall Goenka. 
252 Amarendranath Chakrabartithakur, 
253 Asimkumar Basu. 
255 Asoklal Desmukh, 
256 Rabindranath Dasghosh. 
257 Amalchandra Ray. 
259 Prakaschandra Middar. 
260 Niranjankumar Bhattacharyya. 
261 Pranabkumar Biswas. 
262 Arabinda Ghosh. 
263 Mir Abdu] Quddus. 
264 Madan Mohan Halwasiya. 
265 Baluram Khaitan. 
267 Ramashray Agnihotri. 
270 Chittaranjan Basu. 
272 Dosoo 7. রি 
379 Jagannath 0118. 
380 Kishan Lal Kajaria. 
381 Ram Krishna Prasad. 
382 Jagadishchandra Panachand Ambani. 


CITY COLLEGE. 


Rolj Cal. Comp. চি, 

59 Pratima Ray. 

60 Subhra Sengupta. 

61 Dipa Basu. 

CONTAI P. K. COLLEGE. 

Roll Cal. Comp. 

452 Satyaranjan Manna. - 

453 Barindrakumar Maiti. 

454 Niradbaran Jana. 

COOCH BEHAR VICTORIA COLLEGE. 
Roll Coo, Comp. 
1 Homendrw Ray. 


DARJEELING ST. JOSEPH'S COLLEGE. 
Roll 9111. Comp. 
19 Hirannya Bahadur Chhettri. 


DIAMOND HARBOUR FAKIRCHAND COLLEGE. 
Roll 081. Comp. 
y 


278 Samirkumar Kanji. 
279 Haridas 901), 

280 Md. Golam Rasul. 

281 Birendranath Mandal. 
282 Palanchandra Middya. 
283 Md. ۸100۰ 
284 Amalendunath Kabiraj. 


146 


DUM DUM MOTIJHIL COLLEGE. 
7011. Cal. Comp. 


Sunilranjan Basu. 
Nirendrabhushan Kanjilal. 


Roll Cal. Comp. ۴۰ 
Chhunda Dasgupta. 


Gita Bhaumik. 
Debi Chaudhuri. 


GARHBETA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 
Gobindaprasad Pal. 


Radhakrishna Mandal. 
Chittaranjan Sinhababu. 


GOBARDANGA HINDU COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. — 
Satyabrata Datta. 


Kesabchandra Mukhopadhyay. 
Gopalkrishna Saha. 


GOKHALE MEMORIAL GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cat. Comp. F. 
Krishna Palit. 


HOWRAH GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Dipali Sen. 

Namita Rudra. 
Manjusri Bhattacharyya. 
Gayatri Kar. 

Reba Sarkar. 

Bakul Mitra. 

Rama Chattopadhyay. 


HOWRAH NARASINHA DUTT COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Balaichand Ghosh. 
Bimalkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Rabindranath Bandyopadhyay. 
Manoranjan Kar. 
Rudrakanta Bandyopadhyay. 
Prabhatkumar Ghosh, 
Lalbihari Pal. 
Kartikchandra Ghosh. 
Bhaskardeb Bhatta. 
Sanatkumar Bhattacharyya. 
Amarendranath Datta. 


HUGHLY MOHSIN COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Gobindachandra Manna. 
Bansidhari Mitra. 
Jyotiprasad De, 
Dwijendranath Ghosh. 


HUGHLY WOMEN’S COLLEGE, 


Roll Cal. Comp. চি, 
Mina De. 


ITACHUNA BIJOY NARAYAN MAHAVIDYALAYA. 


8 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Kalisankar Mukhopadhyay. 
Sheikh Nurul Huda Mahammed. 
tnamul Huda Mollah. 
Chittaranjan Mandal. 
Syamapada Ghosh. 


JALPAIGURI A. C. COLLEGE. 
Roll 5111. Comp. 


Prasantakumar Ghosh. 
Sailendranath Ray. 
Susilchandra Mitra. 
Sudhirchandra Dhar. 
Subhashranjan Pal, 
Dilipkumar Bhattacharyya. 


Roll Sill, Comp. ۰ 
Nila Majumdar. 


JALPAIGURI PRASANNADEB BALIKA MAHA- 


VIDYALAYA. 
Roll Sill. Comp. চি, 
Nita Guha. 


JANGIPUR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sunilkumar Sinha. 

Asishkumar Ray. 

Shish Mohammad, IT (Regn. No. 3985 of 1954-55). 
Birendranath Das. 

Abdul Kayum. 

Ajitkumar Das. 


TIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956‏ 456 
িটাহলনিদিললকী‏ کککسکےےےگ ےت س.سںجم چ'سس”سسکبکستٹبپسح-حعحططکطکسًطىکفت _۔ت>ل۔سس٣]_سسسص‏ سس سس سی 


JANGIPUR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
517 Md. Jaynal Abedin. 


518 Pratapendranath Chaudhuri. . 
522 Shish Mohammad, 1 (Regn. No, 3984 of 1954-55). 


523 Md. Moazzen Hossain. 
524 Md. Majed Ali. 


. JIAGANJ SRIPAT SINGH COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


527 Nripendrakumar Das. 

528 Prabhatkumar Das. 

528 Asimprasad Bandyopadhyay. 
530 Amiyamay De. 


KAILASAHAR RAMKRISHNA MAHAVIDYALAYA. 
Roll Agar. Comp. 


$ Sudhirchatdra Das. 
4 ‘Kimaluddia Ahamed. 


KALIMPONG S. U. M. COLLEGE. 
“ * Roll Sill, Comp, F. 


9 Indra Kumari Sinha. 
10 Henrietfa Sinha. 


KALNA COLLEGE. 
Roli Cai. Comp. 
532 Saktipada Garai. 
KANDI RAJ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cail. Comp. 
535 Burendrakumar Das. 
٢ KHARAGPUR COLLEGE. = ہہ‎ 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


544 Kasinath Ghosh. 

545 Ganeschandra Jana. 
546 Satyanarayan Mandal, 
547 = Balmiki Sharma. 

548 M. Sriramamurty. 
549 Rameschandra Patra. 


KRISHNAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


551 Anandamohan Bandyopadhyay. 
552 Sitansubikas Saha. 

753 Md. Meher Ahi Shaikh. 

$54 Nisithranjan Pramanik. 


LADY BRABOURNE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


77 «=Sibani Sen. 
78 Ruby Ghoshal. 
و19‎ Madhuchhanda Bhaduri. 


LORETO HOUSE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Bani Ghosh. 
Sarita Singh. 
Lekha Ray. 

Ratna Datta. 


MAHARAJA M. 0, COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


168 Nareschandra Sarkar. 

169 ‘Dilipkrishna Ray. 

7170 Amiyanjher Das. 

171 Manikratan De. 

179 Ramendranarayan Saha. 
174 Patakibhushan Samajdar. 
176 Praphwilachandra Bhattacharyya. 
315 Asitkumar Sur. 

316 Baidyanath Thakur. 

317% Sambhunath Mukhopadhyay. 
e318 Baidyanath Das. 

320, Bholanath Biswas. 

#21" Asitkumar Biswas. 

322 Buddhadeb Chattopadhyay. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
92 Debirani Das. 
03 Gita Lahiri. 
MAHISADAL RAJ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp, 


655 Pareschandra Pal. 
656 Pinakiranjan Maiti. 
557 Indubhushan Maiti. 
558 Narmalchandra Barb. 
659 Saktipada Maiti. 
660 Haripada Panda. 


MALDA COLLEGE. 


Roll 5111. Comp. F. 


11 Sabita Sarkar. 
12 Whabarani Ghatak. 


.سد ১৩‏ تہ تن 


[Parr IB 


1 


MIDNAPORE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


561 Sobhendusekhar Datta. 
562 Jitendralal Bhattacharyya. 
563 Kedarnath De. 


MURALIDHAR GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


62 Gita Chakrabarti. 

63 Usha Basumajumdar, 
64 Manju Majumdar. 
66 Pratima Ray. 

69 Manjusri Ray. 

Llarani Pal.‏ 1؟ 

72 Basanti Bagchi. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, MURALIDHAR GIRLS’ 
০ 


0٠۰ 
Roll Cal. Comp. FN. 
33 Abhinanda Dasgupta. 


NABADWIP VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


564 Nilmadhab ae 
565 Madhusudan Saha, II (Regn. No. 13769 of 1953-54), 
567 Karunakanta Ray. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
157 Manjyusha Chattopadhyay. 


NAIHAT! RISH! BANKIMCHANDRA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


568 Salilranjan Dasgupta. 

569 Parames Bandyopadhyay. 
570 Asitkumar Bhattacharyya, 
571 Santibhushan Sinha. 

572 Amritalal Biswas. 

573 Sanatkumar Biswas. 

574 Jaminikanta Das. 

577 Biswanath Datta. 

578 Mrinalkanti Mukhopadhyay. 
579 Sunilkumar Mitra. 

580 Avasarala Papaiah Pantulu. 
5681 Piyushkant: De. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
159 Pratima Sanyal. 


PRESIDENCY COLLEGE. 


Roli Cal. Comp. 
179 Pramathes Barua. 


RAMPURHAT COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


582 Himansu Chakrabarti. 
583 Ramkanaikinkar Sarkar. 
584 Sunilkumar Sinha. 


SANSKRIT COLLEGE. 


Roll .ا63‎ Comp. 


11 Rabindranath Ghosh. 

12 Biswanath Sarkar. 

18 Sywmapada Bhattacharyya. 
57 ihirkumar Kanjilal. 


SANTIPUR COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 
586 Dayaldas Khan. 


SCOTTISH CHURCH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


14 Sukhadaranjan Pal 

15 Mohanlal Kayal. 

16 Shyam Sundar Todi. 

17 Ramendranath Mallik. 
18 Tulsicharan Basu. 

19 Anilkumar Ghosh. 

290 «=Jyotirmdranath Sarkar. 
21 S. Nassim Azz. 

229 Ranendukumar Sarkar. 


Roll Cal. Comp. ۰ 
10 Dipti Mitra. 


11 Manju Chaudbun. 
12 Primrose Jeyadevi Samuel, 


SERAMPORE COLLEGE. 
_ Roll Cal. Comp. রঃ 
687 _Saktikumar Misra. ۱ 


part IB] | 


589 


ee 


‘SETH ANANDRAM JAIPURIA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Nareschandra Pal. 
Anikumar Maiti. 

Hindol Nandi. 

Sambhunath Bhattacharyya. 
Baidyanath Bandyopadhyay, 
Alokkumar Datta. 

Jagdish Prasad Mishra. 


SHYAMSUNDAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Sunilkumar Das. 


SIBPUR DINABANDHU COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Asutosh Bhattacharyya. 
Ajitkumar Goswami. 
Kamalkrishna Samanta. 
Sachindranath Mukhopadhyay. 
Hirendranath Chakrabarti. 
Anindyasundar Chattopadhyay. 


SILIGURI COLLEGE. 
Roll 9111, Comp. 


লন او‎ Aditya. 
nilkumar Basu. 
Anantakumar Sarkar. 


Roll Sill. Comp. চি, 


Kshama De. 
Mina Mitra. 


SONADA SALESIAN COLLEGE, 
Roll 8111, Comp. 
Albert Thottun Kal. 


SOUTH CALCUTTA GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Snehakana Ghosh (Mrs, Basu). 
Pratima Dasgupta. - 

Bani Ghosh. 

Sobhana Ghosh. 

Umarani Pal. 

Tandra Guha. 


ST. PAUL’S COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Bidyutkumar Das. 
Rishindranath Mitra. 
Adriswarprasad Sinha. 
Mangalprasad Saha. 
Albert টস ee 


8. XAVIER'S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 


Premkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Sankar Mukhopadhyay. 
Babu Lall Agarwal. 

Mohan Lall ہآآ--- 2ئ"‎ 


SURENDRA NATH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sri Ram Khemka. 
Chittaranjan Chakrabarti. 
Jiten Dasgupta. 
Sudhirkumar Ifaldar. 
Gobindachandra Basu. 
Diptendranath Chattopadhyay. 
Sunilranjan Sarkar. 
Suprabhat Chattopadhyay. 
Sujitkumar Basu. 
Sunilkumar Basu. 
usantukumar Bagchi. 
Asitkumar Basu. 
Jayantakumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Amalkumar Chattopadhyay. = 
Gopalchandra Chakrabarti. 
Bikaschandra Chakrabarti. 
Asimranjan Chakrabarti. 
Ajitkumar Chakrabarti. 
Sudhindrabikas Datta. 
Nirmalkrishna Datta. 
Sunilkumar De. 
Prahladchandra ۰چ(‎ 
Kalidas Ghosh. 
Sitalkrishna Hajra. 
Sunilkanti Dhar. 
yamalkumar Mitra, 
Sukumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Sunilkumar Nath. 
Shaikh Nabab Ali. 
Asutosh Naskar. 
Jogananda Mazumdar. 
Radhamghay Mandal, 
Mibirpanjan Dhar. 


THE CALCUTTA, GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 9, 1956 457 


SURENDRA NATH COLLEGE, 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Nibha Naharay. 
Ramala Ghosh. 
Gita Sen. 
Sadhana Datta. 
Usha De. 

Bela Datta. 


SURI VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 
Sasankasekhar Guin. 


Dhirendrakumar Ghosh. 
Chittapriya Mukhopadhyay. 


TAKI GOVT. INTERMEDIATE COLLEGE: 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Asishkumar Basu. 


TAMRALIPTA MAHAVIDYALAYA. 
Rolf Cal. Comp. 


Pramathanath Maiti. 
Barendranath Bera. 
Pulinchandra 71886, 


ULUBERIA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Dinabandhu Khan. 
Subrata Mukhopadhyay. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
162 Aruna Ghosh. 


UTTARPARA RAJA PEARY MOHAN COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sanatkumar Das. 
Sukumar Ghosh. 
Jaharlal Pal. 


Roli Cai. Comp. F. 


Anugita Biswas. 
Dipali Bhaumik. 


VICTORIA INSTITUTION. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Maya Mukhopadhyay. 

Sipra Bandyopadhyay. 

Rama Chakrabarti. 

Sila Dasgupta. 

Sabita Nandi. 

Ni নি dt 
ilima Bandyopadhyay, 

Dipali Mandal. 

Renuka Jana. 

Lina Chattopadhyay. 

Mirarani Datta. 

Gayatri Ghosh. 


VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sunirmal Sarkar, 

Nitajmani Guha. 

Pannalal Kundu. 
Amalkrishna Pal. 

Mahendra Bhagat. 
Amarendranath Bandyopadhyay. 
Tarunkrishne Chaudhuri. 
Biswanath Dhar. 

Dinanath Tiwari. 

2960 Sanurkumar Mukhopadhyay, 
Dineschandra 7۰. 
Debaprasad Bandyopadhyay. 
Jagatjiban Dhar. 
Bidyutbaran Mandal. 
Gangadhar Mukhopadhyay. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, VIDYASAGAR 
COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. FN. 
Diptirekha Chaudhuri. 
VIJAYGARH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Bimalchandra Kasyapi. 
Sadhanranjan Ghosh. 


WOMEN’S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


590 


592 
593 
594 


597 
598 


25 Rani Saha. 
26 Da Ghosh. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, WOMEN'S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. FN. 
36 Reba De. ۱ 
WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
30 Amita Chattopadhyay. 


458 


1 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


ae 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS. 


Rol! Cal. Comp. FN. 


Moriam. 
Manjulika Bandyopadhyay (Mrs. Ghoshal). 
Fakhrun Nessa. 
Malabika Basu. 
Arati Bandyopadhyay. 
Maya Rakshit. 
Putul Ray (Mrs. Das). 
Bela Majumdar. 
سط‎ Debray. 

anfita Mukhopadhyay. 
Javasri Bandyopadhyay. 
Purabi Majumdar. 
Pushpa Besu. 
Hasi Mukhopadhyay. 
Subhra Guha. 
Sima Bandyopadhyay. 
Namita Nag. 

anju Mitra. 

aya Som. 
Suniti Gapta. 
Gitarani Basu. 
Anjali Ray. 
Suprabha ‘Das. 
Bithi Majumdar. 
Usha .Ray. 
Bharati Bandyopadhyay. 
Dipti “Mustaphi. 
Manisha Basu. 
Bandana Bhattacharyya. 
Angur Chaudhuri. 


Roll Rang. Comp. FN. 
Renuka Gupta. 


Roll Cal. Comp. N. 


Amarendranath Goswami. 
Santoshkumar Raychaudhuri, 
Tirthanath Raychaudhuri. 
Prakaschandra Mandal 
Mrityunjay Tosh. 

Dilipkumar Samaddar. 
Bhimapada Saha. 
Gopalchandra Mallik. 
Niranjan Mukhopadhyay. 
Kartikkinkar Mukhopadhyay. 
Ramsundar Mukhopadhyay. 


Roll Rang. Comp. N. 
Sunilkumar Chaudhuri. 


The undermentioned candidates who were allowed 


to appear at the Special 1,4১7 Examination, held in August, 


955, 
the subject note 


1 


1 


in one subject only are declared to have passed in 
against their names:— 


Cy—denotes Commercial Geography. 
—denotes History. 
L—denotes Logic. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS. 
Roll Cal. Sp. ۰ 


Surjit Kaur Chawla—H. 
Lina Datta—Cg. 


Roli Cal. Sp. N, 
Tarunendu Das—L. 


111. The undermentioned candidates who appeared at 


the হু. 


only 


XXX 


Sc. Examination, held in August, 1955, in one subject 
under section 4C (Compartmental Rules), Chapter 


V (I.Sc.) of the University Regulations and assed 
in that subject are now bets নস ‘ : 
Examination :— 


to have passed the 1.3, 


AGARTALA MAHARAJA BIR BIKRAM COLLEGE. 


Cr وب ی‎ bet 


Roll Agar. Comp. 
Ajitkumar Bhattacharyya. 
টি Ray. 
Nikhilkumar Nahabiswas. 
Nirbanananda Laskar, 
AMTA RAMSADAY COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Anandamohan Mitra. 
Nitaichand Ghanta. 
ARAMBAGH NETAJI MAHAVIDYALAYA. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Nachiketa Adhikari. 


Syamapada Sarkar. 
Ajitkumar Goswami. 
ASANSOL COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Chittaranjan Chattopadhyay. 
Gajendra Prasad Sinha. 
Sibnath Basu. 
Alokechandra Lahiri. 
Chittaranjan Datta. 


Chittaranjan Mukhopadhyay. 
Dipakkumar Gupte, dd 


ASANSOL COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Tapaskanti Bandyopadhyay. 
Amalechandra Mukhopadhyay. 
Byomkes Bardhan, 
Santiranjan Chakrabarti. 
Suhas Biswas. 

Biswanath Ghosh. 
Satyaranjan Dassarma, 
Mihirkumar Mandal. 
Nirmalkanti Dasgupta. 
Sailajaranjan Bandyopadbyay. 
Nirapada Ghosh. 

Shyam Nandan Prasad. 
Akhilesh Kumar Singh. 
Hariram Shaw. 

Parma Nand Sahay. 

Md. Quamrul Huda. 
Mohmamad Shairuddin. 
Radhe Shyam Mishra. . 
Satyaprakas Chattopadhyay. 
Asitkumar Gangopadhyay. 
Mohammad Sayeed. 

Nimai Chandra Mishra. 
Kailash Bihari Prasad. 
Mahalingam ۰ 


ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 
Pradipkumar Mitra. 
Arunkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Anathbandhu Mukhopadhyay. 
Amiya Raychaudhuri. 
Amitabha Nandi. 
Susantachandra Ray. 
Sudhischandra Nag. 
Madanmohan Nath, 
Amarendramohan Ray. 
Man Mohan Singh Uberoi. 
Amarendra Prasad. 
Shamanna Narasinha Moorthy. 
Sukhendrakumar Dasgupta. 
Pushpanarayan Gupta. 
Prabhu Dayal 17818181109, 
Rajates Chandhuri. 
Durgaprasad Chakrabarti, 
Pratipkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Rabindrakumar Debray. 
Gopal Bhattacharyya. 
Ranenchandra Chaudhuri. 
Mrinalkanti Chaudhuri. 
Kananbihari Biswas. 
Diptischandra Bandyopadhyay. 
Buddhadeb Bandyopadhyay. 
Surajit Bandyopadhyay. 
Subhashit Bandyopadhyay. 
Kasinath Gupta. 
Gautam Sengupta, 
Satyagopal Saha. 
Jagannath Das, 
Kamales Chakrabarti. 
Asokkumar Mitra. 
Dipankar Ghosh. 
Dinabandhu Pramanik. 
Srikantakumar Sarkar. 
Dipakkumar Gangopadhyay. 
Prabhuranjan Ghosh. 
Ganadeb Bhattacharyya. 
Asitharan Chaudhuri, 
Susantakumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Debnath Pal. 
Nikhileg Nath. 
Debabrata Biswas. 
Sibaprasad Ghosh. 
Amitabha Chakrabarti. 
Nirmalyakumar Pande, 


Roi] Cal. Comp. F. 


Minati Basu, 

Manik Chattopadhyay. 
Prabha Deb. 

Anjalirani Mukhopadhyay, 
Mamata Majumdar. 
Mayataru Raychaudhuri, 
Lekha Majumdar. 
Kamalrani Ghosh. 
Krishna Sengupta. 
Bhabani Mukhopadhyay. 
Anima Maitra, 

Chhaya Ghosh. 

Sve Saraswathi, 

Vijay Lakshmi Handa. 


BALURGHAT COLLEGE, 


Roll 8111, 00110, 


Anandamohan Goswami. 
Saktipada Sengupta. 
Bibhutibhushan Saha. 
Subhashchandra Ghosh. 
Athijay Majumdar, 
Munindranath. Tokdar. 


[Parr IB 


Part IB] 


4 


পিস TR 


সস 


Cree পপ পপর পপ তর بد‎ পা পা 


BANGABAS! COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Baniprasad Ghosh. 
Rabidas Saha. 
Bhupendrachandra Bhaumik. 
Tusharkanti Datta. 
Arabinda Ghosh, 
Panchugopal Dus. 
Santimay Sengupta. 
Nirmalchandra Ghosh. 
Rudhakanta De. 
Amalkumar Niyogi. 
Samirkumar Maiti. 
Amarprasad Mitra. 
Pratulkrishna Sau. 
Syamalkumar Mitra. 
Ranjitkumar Ray. 
Biswanath Bandyopadhyay. 
Susilkumar Majumdar. 
Md. Lutfar Rahaman. 
Asimkutnar Sen. 
Kamalkanti Basu, 
Sarojkumar Chaudhuri. 
Gaurisankar Majumdar. 
Debiprasad Samui. 
Charubrata Sanyal. 
Pabitraranjan Guha, 
Manibhushan Sarkar. 
Subhashchandra Datta. 
Harbachan Singh. 

Pritam Singh Jain, 
Subalendu Das. 

Anilkumar Das. 
Asokkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Birendranath Chattopadhyay. 
Sujitkanti Ray. 

Subimal Datta. 

Sukhamay Ghosh, 
Biswaranjan Saha, 
Purnachandra ۰ 

Nalin Kumar Mohanlal Mehta, 
Taritkumar Pal. 

Arnablal Bandyopadhyay. 
Bijaybhushan Mukhopadhyay. 
Nitaichandra Sarkar. 


Arunkumar Mitra, II (Regn. No. 257 of 1954-55). 


Debkumar Chattaraj. 
Pasupati Mistri. 
Sunilkumar Chanda. 
Jyotiprasad Majumdar. 
Binayendranath Bandyopadhyay. 
Nityaranjan Saha. 
Balaichandra Mandal. 
Biswanath Pal. 
Chapalsankar Ray. 
Ajitkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Amitkanti Sengupta. 
Chittaranjan Datta . 
Biswapati Pal. 

Sadananda Bandyopadhyay. 
Ushanath Upadhyay. 
Sunilkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Chittaranjan Sarkar. 
Paritosh Saha. 
Samarendranath Misra. 
Sankarnath Pal. 

Anilbaran Ghosh. 
Rathindranath Gangopadhyay, 
Debabrata Dasgupta. 
Sunilkumar Biswas. 
Suprabhat Pal. 


Arunkumar Mitra, I (Regn. No. 18808 of 1953-54). 


Srikumar Sikdar. 
Achindrakumar Chattopadhyay. 
Durgadas Basu. 

Manoranjan Ray. 
Debiranjan De. 

Mrinalkanti Mandal. 
Amalkrishna De. 

Dilipkumar Bandyopadhyay, 
Mohanchand Baral. 
Ajitkumar Dasgupta, . 
Chiranjay Bhattacharyya. 
Samarendranath Mukhopadhyay. 
Phanilranjan Ray, 
Asokkumar Goswami. 
Bibhaschandra Basu. 
Narbadeshwar Mishra. 
Rajatkisor Majumdar. 
Nimairatan Datta. 
Umacharan Datta. 
Sunilkumar Ray. 

Ram Ekbal Singh. 
Purusottama Mallick. 
Gaurangasundar Nayak. 
Arabinda ۰ 

Bireschandra Chattopadhyay. 
Indranath Bandyopadhyay. 
Bholanath Kundu. 
Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
বাটার হা ean nth Das. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 459 


পপ উপ সপ পপ এ পেশী লা পিস পপ 


BANGABASI COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Samir Saha. 
Tridibkumar Manna. 
Gopallal Laha. 
Biswanath Dasgupta. 
Madhusudan Sinha. 
Ganeschandra De. 
Sukhamay Bhaumik. 
Tusitranjan Lodh. 
Debaprasad Chakrabarti. 
ہد‎ Sengupta. 
Nirmalchand Sil. 

Prodip Kumar Lee. 
Badalkumar Sengupta, 
Bimalkanti Chaudhuri. 
Bholanath Ray. 
Barunchandra Ghosh, 
Sukharanjan Mukhopadhyay. 
Raneschandra Nag. 
Santiranjan Karmakar. 
Achyutkumar Majumdar. 


BANGAON DINABANDHU MAHAVIDYALAYA. 


616 
618 


BARASAT GOVT. 


629 
631 
632 


Roll Cal, Comp. 


Gobindachandra Sardar. 
Susilkumar Dhar 
Bijankrishna Goldar. ٠ 
Md. Abu Bakar. 


BANKURA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sukhendubikas Mitra. 
Birendrakumar Pal. 
Aloknath De. 

Ikshitkumar Mitra. 

Ziaul Huq Md. Khalilur Rahman. 
Sambhunath Chattopadhyay. 
Phanibhushan Patra. 
Anilkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Sibasankar Sarkar. 
Sudebchandra Datta. 
Madanmohan Patra. 
Syamapada De. 


BANKURA SAMMILANI COLLEGE. 
Rott Cal. Comp, 
Biswanath Sengupta. 
Jagannath Chattopadhyay, 
INTERMEDIATE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Asishkumar Ghosh. 
Asimkumar Dasgupta. 
Batukeswar Mukhopadhyay. 
Birinchibhushan Majumdar. 
Parimalendu Bandyopadhyay. 
Pijushkanti Basu. 
Sukantiprasad Bandyopadhyay. 
Salilkumar Basu. 


BARISHA COLLEGE. 
: Roll Cal. Comp. 


Gangadhar Mandal. 
Debtosh Sarkar, 
Nirmalya Sen. 


BELUR RAMKRISHNA MISSION VIDYAMANDIR., 


Gr ৮৯ ০‏ ی یہ 


666 
667 
669 
670 
671 
672 
674 


Roll Cal, Comp. 
Suhaskumar Das. 
BERHAMPORE K. N. COLLEGE. 
Roll 0281. Comp. 


Birendranath Das. 
Amiyakumar Karpharma. 
Asimkumar Kundu. 
Sunilkumar Maitra. 
Samarendra Mandal. 
Rupendranath Raychaudhuri. 
Pabitrakumar Chakrabarti. 
Syamalkumar Biswas. 


BETHUNE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp, F. 


Mandira Raychaudhuri. 
Anima Sen. 
Uma Sen. 
Gita Mukhopadhyay. 
Mithu Chaudhuri. 
BISHNUPUR RAMANANDA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Bholanath Mahapatra. 
Sitanath Mahanti. 
Bholanath Singh. 

Sibaram Mukhopadhyay. 
Amalendu Bandyopadhyay. 
Purnendusekhar Patra. 
Suranjan Dattachaudhuri. 


460 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


= 


BISHNUPUR RAMANAND COLLEGE. 
[3011 Cal. Comp. 


675 Sudhansusekhar Sarkar. 
676 Satyaranjan Chaudhuri, 
677. Bankimehandra Mitra. 

678 Dhirendranath Pal. 


BOLPUR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


679 Kalidas Bhattacharyya. 
681 Bimalarangan Ghosh. 
682 Narayanchandra Sengupta. 


BURDWAN RAJ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


686 Mrityunjay Ghosh. 
687 Pasupatinagh -Chandra. 
688 Hemantakunar Gangopadhyay. 
689 Asokkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
91 Praphullachandra Raypratihar. 
y2 Hrishikes Chakrabarti. 
G93 Jaharlal Acharyya. 
695 Pritibrata Basu. 
697 Gaurisankar Mukhopadhyay. 
698 Kamalananda Mukhopadhyay. 
699 Rabindranath Ray. 
700 Purendunarayan Samanta. 
701 Mohammed Golam Mahbub, 
702 Bimalakanta Chattopadhyay. 
703 Anadinath Malkandi. 
706 Hasibor Rahaman. 
707 Sk. Abul Kasem. 


CENTRAL CALCUTTA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


107 11. Khaleequr Rahman. 
108 Malay Sengupta. 


CHANDERNAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


708 Ajitkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
709 Asimkumar De. 
710 Madhusudan Chakrabarti. 
711 Asokkumar Bandyopadhyay. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
56 Sobha Ghosh. 


CHARUCHANDRA COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 
271 Mrinal Sen. 
272 Guobindamani Guha. 
273 Bibhaschandra Pal. 
275 Gaurinath Mukhopadhyay. 
276 Sudhendusekhar De. 
977. Amarendranath Bandyopadhyay. 
523. Somendrabhushan Basu. 
§24 Satysranjan Das. 
625 Nirmelkrishna Bandyopadhyay. 
526 Saibsalkumar Ray. 
527 Ranendranath Das. 
528 Kartikchandra Das. 
530 Samires Bhattacharyya. 
631 Krishnadas Mukhopadhyay. 
§32 Arunkumar ae 
533. [১8011501007 Bhattacharyya. 
5385 Subodhkumar Ray. 
536 Sunilkanti Raychaudhuri. 
697 Susilbaran Ghosh. 
638 Amalkumar Mitra. 
539 Bimanbihari Thakur. 
540 Prasantakumar Bandyopadhyay. 
641 Satyendraprasad Chakrabarti. 
542 Arunkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
543 Nikbilkumar Maiti, 
545 Prabir Dasgupta. 
546 Satyabrata Raychaudhuri. 
547 Jagatbandhu Ghoshal. 
548 Sunilkrishna Datta. 
559 Amitkumar Dasgupta. 


Roll Cal. Comp. ۴ 
53 Sephali Sarkar. 


CiTy COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


279 = Ranojranjan Dasgupta. 
280 Dilipkumar Dasgupta. 
281 Arabinda Chakrabharta. 
283 Mrinal Kumar Dutt. 
285 Sunilendrachandra ۰ 
286 Chittapirasanna Sen. 
287 Samarendranath Sen. 
289 <Asitmohan Ray. 

20) Arunkuinar Sen. 

291 Jogimder Singh Padan. 


পাটানি پرتھے م٭٭ستسصدجہ لمت‎ 
রিনি سمسورم سس ہارمہ‎ cash, এ চা আলা ক 


292 
294 
295 
200 
297 
298 
299 
300 
301 
304 
305 
306 
307 
309 
310 
311 
312 


سر وج جن ৮৯৯‏ ں ৩১০০ ২‏ 


[Parr IB 


পপ পিস শী পপ সস‏ ہد مسممد অন শি der ০৯ ৮০‏ جید مووہ Ann‏ کا 


6۱۲۷١ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sunilbikas Sengupta. 
Karunakumar Chakrabarti. 
Bibhupada De. 
Arunansukumar Saha. 
Nityuranjan Samaddar. 
Binaybhushan Majumdar. 
Samirkumar Datta. 
Mrigankasekhar Mitra. 
Nirodlal De. 

Nanigopal Upadhyay. 
Pijushkanti Daschaudhuri, 
Tapaskumar Ghosh. 
Gopallal Kumar. 

Kanailal Deb. 

Iqbal Singh. 

Pankajaksha Bhattacharyya. 
Bhupendranarayan Ray. 
Amitmohan Sinha. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Jogendra Kaur Bindra. 

Arati Sengupta (Mrs. Ghosh). 
Annapurna Mitra. 

Anjali Das. 

Dhira De. 


CONTAI P, K. COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Manoranjan Jana. 
Sripaticharan Pal. 
Atankabhanjan Gayen. 
Ranjitranjan Das. 
Manikchandra Mahapatra. 
Suhaskumar Maiti. 


COOCH BEHAR VICTORIA COLLEGE. 
Roll Coo Comp. 


Asitranjan Bardhan. 
Pankajkumar Bhaduri. 
Manindramohan Bhattacharyya. 
Ramendu Gangopadhyay. 
Santiram Nag. 

Amiyakanti Sarkar. 
Amalchandra Bedajna. 
Karunakumar Sarkar, 


DARJEELING GOVT. COLLEGE. 
Roll 9111. Comp. 


Durga Prasad Sharma. 
Pradup Kumar. 
Narayan Singh. 
Mukund Kumar Thapa. 
Bir Bahadur Pradhan. 
Prem Kumar Sinha. 
Amiyakumar Datta. 
Sutirtha Ghosh. 


Nisaranjan Chaudhuri. 


DUM DUM MATIJHIL COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Bibhukumar Das. 
Pradipkumar Ray. 
Mridulkanti Datta. 
Prasantakumar Basu. 
Amalkumar Raychaudhuri. 
Priyaranjan Sarkar. 


GOBARDANGA HINDU COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Binaybhushan Chaudhuri. 
Dipakkumar Ghosh. 
Dulalkumar Sarkar. 
Kanailal Ray. 
Dilipkumar Basu. 
Niranjan Majumdar. 


HETAMPUR .کا‎ C, COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Raghubir ۰ 


HOWRAH NARASINHA DUTT COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Baidyanath Das. 
Chandicharan Chaudhuri. 
Maheschandra Pal. 

Sirshendu Mallik. 

Rampada Dhara. 
Sailendranath Basu. 
Kalyanehandta Mukhopadhyay, 
Kisorimohan Patra. 
Pra:adehandra’ Pal. 
Pauchnugopal Datta, 


part IB] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 461 
eo : ٹس ڈٹیڈ ٹس شف نر سج‎ 
HOWRAH NARASINHA DUTT COLLEGE. KATWA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. Roll Cail. Comp. 
752 Tapankumar Adhya. 809 Siddhigopal Das. 
754 Golapkanti Chattopadhyay. 810 Nirmalendu Mukhopadhyay. 
756 Dilipkumer Dube. 811 Sankarprasad Mandal. 
Sisirkumar Das. 
Bae Jaygopal Chaudhuri. اس شی‎ COLLEGE: 
760 Debaprasad Bandyopadhyay. Roll Cal. Comp. 
701 Md. Ali Imam. 819 Khagendranath Chakrabarti. 
763 Nirmalkanti Basu. 814 Dilipkumar Ray, 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. areskumar Maitra. 
57 Sobha Chakrabarti. 816 Sumalya Basu. 
58 Anima Chaudhuri. KRISHNAGAR COLLEGE. 
HUGHLY MOHSIN COLLEGE. ٦٦٦ Cal. Comp. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 819 Samirkumar Biswas. _ 
765 Swilajaprasad Bakundi 820 oe Chakrabarti, 11 (Regn. No. 6917 of 
ee 58-54). 
sh وچ اس سرت‎ 821 Subhendubikas De. 
77) Asruranjan Sain. aon ola مھ‎ ag দর 
772, Chittaranjan Bhattacharyya, 830 Manasranjan Ray. 
ITACHUNA BIJAY NARAYAN MAHAVIDYALAYA. LADY BRABOURNE COLLEGE. 
রর Roll Cal. Comp. Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
173 Nitaichandra Haldar. 35 Phalguni Chaudhuri, 
775 Niradbaran Ghosh, 36 Jharna Sinha. 
776 Asokkumar Adak. 37 Debirani Das. 
277 Jnanendranath Mukhopadhyay. 38 Durga Das. 
778 Asimkrishna Pal. 39 Mayarani Gupta. 
779 Radhagobinda Chattopadhyay. 40 Manika Sarkar. 
780 Umaprasad Kundu. 41 Ratna Datta. 
781 Abhaychandra Ray. 42 Madhavi Pillai. 
; Biswanath 98 43 Nalini Trivedi. 
84 Ramaprasac umar. . 
785 Balaichandra Mandal. LORETO HOUSE. 
78 Sudhindranath De. Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
JALPAIGURI ۸۰ C, COLLEGE. 1 Agnes Rosario. 
Roll Sili, Comp. MAHARAJA M. ٥. COLLEGE. 
22. Nirmalendu Majumdar. Roll Cal. Comp. 
23 Mrinalkanti ا‎ ati, d 508 Jyotirmay Basuraychaudhuri, 
a নবম ar, ve 15 Kumar. 
asan : : ery. 
206 Dilipkumar 71185 61 Fea وی سر‎ 
28 Upendranath Mallik. 512 Dhrubaranjan Sarkar. 
29 Chittaranjan শা 619 Ramendranath Mukhopadhyay, 
30 Kalipada Bhattacharyya. 615 Bibhutibhushan Guha. 
31 Haripada Ray. | 516 Dilipkumar Raychaudhuri. 
রর 4 ھ8‎ 2۹2۶ (ھ٤‎ নাঃ ت٭0‎ ۶ Nag. 
ipulbikram مد‎ : ulalkumar Basu. 
ag ink poral la 0 ٦ بن‎ হি লন Bhattacharyya. 
ং udhirchandra Jha. ae : 
37 Nimaichandra Dasgupta. 522 ee 
38 اش اپ سس‎ hg 
39 Saktipada Mukhopadhyay, : ۱ 
40 Achintyakumar Ray. 7 0 Cal. Comp. চি, 
41 নল, পে 52 Manjusri Bhaumik. 
42 Kumar Rabindranarayan. 
43 Amareschandra Mukhopadhyay. MALDA COLLEGE. 
44 Nitaichandra Goswam}, ; Roll Sill. Comp. 
45 Gunendusekhar Chattopadhyay. 
JANGIPUR COLLEGE. i amar পা 
Roll Cal. Comp. 49 নত Das. 
787 Subhashchandra Das. 50 Syed Asfaque Ali. 
788 Parbatimohan Majuindar. 51 Mihirkanti Ghosh. 
789 Krishnagopal Misra. a asides দাতা : 
amalkumar . 
JIAGANJ SRIPAT SINGH COLLEGE. : oe 
Roli Cal. Comp. MIDNAPUR COLLEGE. 
le সদ Roll Cal. Comp. 
91 Debasish Sinha. ہنم‎ 834 Asutosh Tripathi. 
703 Amarendrakumar Niyog}, 835 Chittaranjan, Pal, 
ALAYA. abendusundar Basu. 
KAILASAHAR RAMKRISHNA MAHAVIDY 638 Niradbaran Bhattacharyya. 
Roll Agar. Gomp. atl ات جا ا‎ Sasmal. 
7 Dinencranath ‘Das. . Solaiman. 
রঃ Ketakiranjan Pal. ‘ 843 Samarendrakumar Sahu. 
Asokkumar Basu, 
10 Niharkanti Debchaudhuri, Roll Cal. Comp. ۰ 7 
KALNA COLLEGE 59 Gauri Sinha. 
Roll Cal. Comp, NABADWIP VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. 
796 Amulyachandra Basak. Roll Cal. Comp. 
797 Bibhutibhushan Brahmachari. 844 Arddhendu Sarkar. 
798 Purnachandra Ghosh. 846 Qurudas Das. 
800 Durgapada Sarkar. ই موہ کے سا‎ 
urgapada 1 a 
801 Siddheswar Acharyya. 849 8115 Mandal, 
802 Taritkumar Bhattacharyya. 851 Anilchandra Saharay. 
808 Tarakeswar Mandal. 
KANDI RAJ COLLEGE, NAIHATI RISHI BANKIMCHANDRA COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 7011 Cal. Comp. 
dhyay. 853 Prasantakumar Haldar. 
i সি ] নি টিন 854 Krishnadas Mukhopadhyay. 
806 Jagannathprasad Das. 855 Chittaranjan Pal. 
ihi a. r 20001804958, 
807 Mihirkumar Sab 856 Pranabkumar Bandyopadh 


462 


NAIHATI ۴۲۱5۲۱ BANKIMCHANDRA COLLEGE. 


138 


58 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


Rolt Cal. Comp. 


Atulchandra Chakrabarti. 
Satyanarayan Gangopadbyay. 
Bimalchandra Ghosh. 
Ranajitkumar Maitra. 
Debeskumar Ray. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Atreyi Basu. 
Kalpana Ghosh. 
Sila Chakrabarti. 


PRESIDENCY COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Mrityunjay Bandyopadhyay. 


ল, G. KAR MEDICAL COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Asokkumar Mitra. 
Rabindranath Mukhopadhyay. 
Asishkumar Dasgupta. 
Anilkumar Chaudburi. 
Analkumar Sil. 

Amalkumar Gangopadhyay. 
Animesh Chattopadhyay. 
Jitendrachandra Ray, 
Ramendranath [Patla. 
Ranjitkumar Bhattacharyya. 
Sukumar Ghosh. 

Sibaprasad Majumdar. 
Amarendranarayan Saha. 
Dilipkumar Sinha. 
Gobindabandhu Chaudhuri. 
Sibdas Bhattacharyya. 


RAIGANJ COLLEGE, 
Roll 5811, Comp. 
Debaprasad Das. 


RAMPURHAT COLLEGE. 
Roll 081. Comp. 


Manojmohan Laha. 
Prakaschandra Saha. 
Sisirkumar Saha. 


RANAGHAT COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Anathbandhu Sen. 
Debaprasad Chakrabarti. 
Sibranjan Ghosh. 
Radharaman Ray. 
Bimalmadhab Saha. 
Dhirendranath De. 
Sisirkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Syamalkumar Ray. 


SANTIPUR COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Badal Chattopadhyay. 
Debabrata Gangopadhyay. 


SCOTTISH CHURCH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Bharet Bhushan. 
Sudista Narain Sharma. 
Ram Nath Ram. 

Jwain Singh Kharshi Ing. 
Manojit Seth. 
Syamalkumar Sur. 
Prasad ۰ 

Amal Guha. 
Nareschandra Ghosh. 
Durgapada Chakrabarti. 
Asokkumar Datta. 
Ranendranarayan Datta. 
Amarnath Laha. 
Prabhatkumar Purkait. 


. Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


Pratima Sau, 
Mina Dattaray. 


SERAMPORE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Basudeb Chattopadhyay. 
Nirmalyaranjan Chakrabarti. 
Baidyanath Das. 
Gaurisankar Datta. 
Bibhutibhushan Adak, 
Baidyanath Bhar. 
Praphullakumar Porel. 
Tusharkanti Niyogi. 
Amarendranath Sanyal. 
Sunilkkumar Haldar. 
Ajitkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Sisirkumar Haldar. 


AUGUST 9, 1956 


جوم 


[Parr IB 


+ 
SETH ANANDRAM JAIPURIA COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Arunabha Sengupta. 
Gopalchandra Ghoshal. 
Birendranath Ray. 
Ramdas Kundu. 
Pradyotkumar Sinha, 


SIBPUR DINABANDHU GOLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Pijushkanti Bhattacharyya. 
Pankajkumar Ghoshchaudhuri, 
Sailendranath Pal. 

Sitbapada Bandyopadhyay. 
Kalyankumar Basu, 
Debiprasad Mukhopadhyay. 
Samarkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Syamalkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Prakaskumar Kar, 
Purnendunarayan Sen. 


SILIGURI COLLEGE. 
Roll Sill. Comp. 


Sunilkumar Dhar. 
Susilkumar Mitra, 
Syamalkumar Guha. 
Sujitkumar Chakrabarti. 
Nikhilranjan Sen. 
Nripendranath Datta. 


St. JOSEPH’S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Vinod Kumar Dube, 
Jean Gerard Emmelien Guy Oriaw. 


ST. PAUL'S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Arunkumar Basu, II (Regn. No. 11952 of 1958-54). 
Nimaichandra Ghosh. 
Samirkumar Das. 
Parimalchandra Ray. 
Salikumar Goswami. 
Asokkanta Ray. 

Jadabdas Chattopadhyay. 
Mohinimohan Mukhopadhyay. 
Dilipkumar Ray. 
Rebatimohan Chaudhuri. 
Paramalingam Shanmugarajah. 
Lalawia. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
Duvvuri Uma Devi. 


8. XAVIER'S COLLEGE. 
Rolf Cal. Comp, 


Rabindranath Bandyopadhyay. 
Madan Mohan Varma. 
Mrinalkanti Ghoshal. 
Sanatkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Arunkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Mohan Mulchand Bhavnani. 
Samarendra Ghosh. 

Marcus Rodrick. 


SURENDRANATH COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Pradipkumar Dasgupta. 

Saileschandra Ray. 

Bimalchandra Rauth. 

Kartikchandra Kundu. 

Biswanath Kundu. 

Matilal Haldar. 

Panchugopal Ghosh. 

Basudeb Ghosh. 

Nripendrakumar Ghosh. 

Sunilkumar Ghosh, Il (Regn, No. 3350 of 1952-53). 

Samarendrachandra Pal. 

Dilipkumar Mitra, I (Regn. No, 905৫ of 1952-53). 

Bishnupada Nandi. 

Biswanath Pal, I (Regn. No. 4685 of 1952-53). 

Nilaykumar Niyogi. 

Ranjitkumar Pal. 

Bodhisattwa Ray. 

Abdur Rafique Mirdha. 

Sadananda Mandal. 

Bimalkumar Pal, 

Chittaranjan Ray. 

Amalananda Chakrabarti. 

Subhashchandra Biswas. 

Tamalkanti Biswas. 

Kasinath Basu. 

Dwijendrachandra Bal, 

Ajaykumar Bandyopadhyay, 

Pratulkumar Adhikari. 

সিন P‏ تر 

Amalendu Bandyopadhyay, I (Regn. No. 8381 ০ 
1952-53). ০৮০৪ 

Anjankumar Bhattacharyya. 

Bikas Gangopadhyay. 


pant IB] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


463 


সপ eee eee 
ae mene Pes tte رہ کو‎ ea ee ee یہ‎ ee en مسر ہے رک ھی کہ‎ Pere aa ae ee ee ae a ee ae a ey ey dt eee ae 


£ 
SURENDRANATH COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sukumar ٹا‎ 
Ranendranath Chaudhuri, IL (Regn. No. 19593 of 
1953-54). 
Sankarlal Chaudhuri. 
Parimalkanti Chaudhuri. 
Asokkumar Chaudhuri. 
Buddhadeb Datta. 
Asimkumar Datta. 
Subodhchandra Chattopadhyay. 
Anilkuinar Chattopadhyay, II (Regn. No. 8550 olf 
1952-53). 
Pushpal Dasgupta. 
Ramendranath Mirbahar, 
ial Ress Kundu. 
Ramananda Bhattacharyya. 
Ranjitkisor Dhar. 
Gaurchandra De. 
Ranjitkumar Chakrabarti. 
Nirupam Bhattacharyya, 
Balaichandra Santra. 
Sudhansukumar Bhawal. 
Thakurlal Bandyopadhyay. 
Sunilknshna Banikchaudhuri, 
Syed Matiar Rahman. 
Arunkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Nirmalkanti Chattopadhyay. 
Birendra Nath Deo, 
Syamalkumar Mitra. 
Susantakumar Dattagupta. 
Somnath Basu. 
J yotirindrakumar Chakrabarti. 
Sisirkumar Mandal. 
Alok Mukhopadhyay. 
Kiranmay Das. 
Chittaranjan Taraphdar 
Sukhendu Nandi. 
Md. Omar Ali Dewan. 
Ajitkumar Sanyalchaudhuri. 
Jitendranath Chakrabarti. 
Nirendrakumar Chakrabarti. 
Anakdut Das. 
Pramathanath Das. 
Barindranath Pal. 
Kashi Nath Sriwastwa. 
Ramrik Lal Trivedi. 
Sachida Nand Sinha. 
Manajirul Islam. 
Peyara Singh. 
Tarlochan Singhuppal. 
Madhusudan Sana. 
Arunchandra Sinha. 
Serajul Islam. 
Ranajitkumar Ray. 
Binaybhushan Sarkar. 
Sanjiban Ray. 
Samirkumar Ray. 
Niharranjan Seth. 
Sailen Sengupta. 
Syed Hyder Ali. 
Md. Jalil Ahmad. 
Narendranath Bhandari. 
Krittibas Basu. 


SURI VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Adyanath Chaudhuri. 
Brajanath Goswami. 
Ramapada Chattopadhyay, 
Dukaribhushan Mandal. 
Kalyankumar Pal. 
Mihirkumar Debbarman. 
Ranajitkumar Sinha. 
Satyaranjan Handyopadhyay. 
Dilipkumar Chattaraj. 
Paresnath Gan. 

নিত Abt pe Nandi. 
Mandates Mitra. 

Ronald Lachu Kisku. 
Ramkumar Prasad. 7 
Md. Faizul Karim. 
Subrata Gupta. 


TAKI GOVT. INTERMEDIATE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sudhirkrishna Ghosh, 
Subodhkumar Basu. 


TAMLUK TAMRALIPTA MAHAVIDYALAYA. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sunilkanta Pal. 
Bimalendu Jana. 
Syamaprasad Mandal. 
Samarendranath Guria. 
Mrinalkanti Giri, 
Bidyutbaran Samanta. 
Kanailal Tripathi. 
Dulal Chattopadhyay. 


IV. 


ULUBERIA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sachidulal Hajra. 
Syamapada Ghosh. 


Uttarpara Raja Peary Mohan College. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Samirkumar Manna. 
Jogendralal Gangopadhyay. 
Rathindranath Goswami. 
Prasantakumar Sanyal. 
Chintamani Mukhopadhyay. 
Diliprenjan Dasgupta. 
Ajaykumar Patra. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
Gauri Sengupta. 


VICTORIA INSTITUTION. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
Bani Basu. 
Minati Dasgupta. 
Gauri Biswas. 


VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cat. Comp. 


Devendra Pathak. 

Ramaprasad Das, 

Basudeo Mahato. 

Manoranjan Mandal. 

Nityagopal Ghosh. 

Santikumar Ghosh. 

Alokkumar Maitra. 

Sudarsankumar Basu. 

Susilkumar Pal. 

Sunilkumar Hajra. 

Kamalkumar Majumdar. 

Pranabeswar Basu. 

Manaskumar Mitra. 

Manindrakumar Nath. 

Asokkumar Mukhopadhyay, II (Regn. No. 10310 of 
1953-54). 

Sukumar Mitra. 

Biswapati Ghosh. 

Sanatkumar .1ھ‎ 

Nityaranjan Pal. 

Dipakkumar Ray. 

Niranjan Datta. 

Pratipkumar Chakrabarti. 

Binaykumar Saha. 

Sisirkumar Saha. 

Pramodranjan Sengupta. 

Girindranath Chaudhuri, II (Regn. No. 
1952-53) . 

Sailenchandra Bandyopadhyay. 

Asimkumar Bhattacharyya. 

Pratap Chandra Chaturvedi. 

Bhabanicharan Das. 

Prabirkumar Chakrabarti. 

Asimkumar Mukhopadhyay. 

Baidyanath Ghoshal, 

Parimal Raychaudhuri. 

Dhirajkumar Chaudhuri. 

Tapankumar Lahiri. 

Sukhalchandra Ha)jra. 

Debapriya Gupta. 

Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay, I (Regn. No. 3949 of 

953-54). 

Bimalkanti De. 

Haradhan Pal. 

Subrata Datta. 

Saileswar Ghosh. 

Chiraranjan Dasgupta. 

Swadeschandra Bhaumik. 

Jogendra Prasad Singh. 

Bhupendra Narayan সি, 

Priya Brat Yadav. 

Ramendranath Pal. 

Ranjit Sinha, IT (Regn. No. 1927 of 1952-53). 

Padmakumar Saha. 

Jyotirmay Ghosh. 

Roll Cal, 
Chhaya Palchaudhuri. 
Aruna Datta. 


The undermentioned candidates who were allowed 


5879 of 


Comp. F. 


to appear at the Special 1.Sc. Examination, held in August, 
955, in one subject only are declared to have passed in 
the subject noted against their names:— 


1 
2 
3 
qT 
12 


Bio—denotes Biology. 
M-—denotes Mathematics. 
Ph—denotes Physics. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS. 


Roll Cal. Sp. F.N. 
Swastika Sen—M. 
Rama Majumdar—M. 
Lily Ghosh—M. 
Ila Sen—M. 
Bani Chakrabarti—Ph. 


464 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS. 
Roll Cal. Sp. ا‎ 


Buddhadeb Chattopadhyay—Ph. 
Pritibhushan De—Ph. 
Sankarnath Bhattacharyya—M. 
Asitkumar Mandal—M. 
Pijushkanti Dasgupta—M. 
Sujit Basu—M. 
Bimalendrakumar Bachaspati—M. 
Sudhindramohan Datta—M. 
Susantakumar Gupta—M. 

10 A. Gopala Krishnan—M., 

12 Asokkumar Ray—M. 

13 Baidyanath Saha—M. 

14. Asok Kumar Shrivastav—M. 
15 Krishnagopal Sarkar—Ph, 

16 Basablal Chakrabarti—Ph. 

19 Anandamay Das—M. 

20 Atindrabbhushan Gupta—M. 

21 Ajitkumar Pramanik—M., 

23 Asok Basu—Bio. 

24 Amiyakumar Dehmajumdar—M. 
27 Prasadendu Deb—M. 

28 Haridas Rakshit—Ph. 

29 Atulchandra Ojha-—Bio. 

30 Prabhaschandra Ray—M. 

31 Paresnath Ray—Ph. 

32 Kumardeb Bhattacharyya—M., 
33 Krishnakumar Bajoria—Ph. 

“ 34 Amarchandra Ghosh—Ph. 

36 Haripada Majumdar—Ph. 

38 Sailendranath Haldar—Ph. 

39 Sudhendusekhar Samanta—M. 

41 Ansari Md. Alimul Alam—Ph. 

£3 Amiyakumar Basu—Bio. 

45 Prabhaschandra Guha—M. 

49 Kedarnath Ray—M. 

50 Asim Chakrabarti—Ph. 

51 Sarbanisahaya Bhattacharyya—M. - 

§2 Vishwa Nath Tapuriabh—M. 

53 Sunirmalkumar Sinha—Bio. 

V. The following orders have been passed by the 
Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the University of 
Calcutta in respect of the case of breach of dis ae aris- 
ing in connection with the Compartmental 1.86. Exa- 
mination, held in August, 1955. ۱ ۱ 

The examination for 1955 of the following candidate is 
cancelled and he is debarred from appearing at any Uni- 
versity Examination in 1956:— 

Dipakkumar Sen, Roll Coo. Comp. No. 6 (Regn. 
No. 5768 of 1953-54), Cooch Behar Victoria Col- 


lege. 
N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA. 
RESULTS OF THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN 
AGRICULTURE EXAMINATION, MAY, 1055 
(UNDER THE TRANSITORY REGULATIONS). 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and 3٥ of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 6th August, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
assed the Bachelor of Science in Agriculture Examination 
held in May, 1955, under the Transitory Regulations :— 
(Arranyved in order of merit.) 

.. FIRST CLASS. 

Non-Collegiate student (West Bengal State College of 
ھ۲٥۰‎ 
Bandyopadhyay, Madhabendranath. 
SECOND CLASS. 


Non-collegiate students (West Bengal State College of 
Agriculture). 
1 Ghosh, Susthirkumar. 
2 Ghosh, Debabrata. 


২০ حہ م0‎ 0১ তে ৮৮ ৩৩ سر رخ‎ 


3 Chanda, Prabirkumar. 
4 Chakrabarti, Banabihari. 
5 Gangopadhyay, Bimalendu, 
6 Mani Kumar Dong. 
7 Ghosh, Sukhendu. 
8 Ghosh, Prabodhchandra. 
9 Ray, Subrata. 
10 Mukhopadhyay, Samiran. 
11 Das, ۸411۲ 10. 
12 Mandal, Sarojranjan. 
13. De, Birendrakrishna. 
14 Pal, Jadabchandra. 
15 Das, Ambikacharan. 
Shamsul Haque Mondal. 
17 Sen, Sachindranath. 
18 Gupta, Utpal. 
19 Chanda, Ramanath. 
20 Bagchi, Rabindrakumar. 
Guha, Asimranjan. 
22 Ghatak, Subodhkumar. 
23 Sur, Bibhabasu. 
24 Das, Asokkumar. 
25 Bandyopadhyay, Rabindranath. 
26 Ghosh, Jagadindranath. 
N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


[Parr IB 


পা এপি 


RESULTS OF THE B.SC. (AGRICULTURE) ۸۰ 
2, 1955 (UNDER THE OLD REGULA- 
TIONS), 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 28th June, 1955. 


I. The wundermentioned candidate is declared to have 
passed the B.Sc. 12741 Examination (under the 
old regulations) held in May, 1955, with Distinction: — 


1 Satpathi, Bimalendrasekhar, non-collegiate student. 
Il. The undermentioned caudidate is declared to have 
assed the B.Sc. (Agriculture) Examination (under the old 
egulations) held in May, 1955, in the Pass course:— 


1 Basu, Kamalkumar, non-collegiate Jaci ہے‎ 
Controller of Extminations. 
RESULTS OF THE COMPARTMENTAL 8.80. (Ag.) 
EXAMINATION, NOVEMBER, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. ٠ 


Senate House, the 14th January, 1956. 


The undermentioned candidates who appeared at the 
Compartmental Bachelor of Science in Agriculture Examina- 
tion, held in November, 1955. in one subject only under 
section 4C (Compartmental Rules) Appendix F of the 
University Regulations and passed in that subject are now 
declared to have passed the Bachelor of Science in Agri- 
tulture Examination:— 


Non-collegiate students (West Bengal State College of 
Agriouiture). 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Mandal, Amiyakisor, 
Pal, Loknath 
Sirajul Haque. 
N.C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


Sen 


RESULTS OF THE FIRST 8.۷.80. EXAMINATION, 
19 


Orders hy the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of ٣8۰ 


Senate House, the 12th October, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the First Examination for the Degree of Bachelor 
076 Science (Parts I and II) held in August, 

BENGAL VETERINARY COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in Alphabetical Order.) 
Passed with Distinction. 


Bandyopadhyay, Mukulranjan (1). 
Biswas, Dilipkumar, 
Chattopadhyay, Durgadas. 
Dasbhaumik, Kantibhushan. 
Hajra, Mihirkumar, 
Lahiri, Asitkumar. 
Mahadev Padhan. 
Manohar Singh. 
Nayak, Debiprasad (2). 

10 Saha, Akhilchandra. 

(1) Obtained Honours in Organic and Physical Chemis- 


try. 

(2) Obtained Honours in Organic and Physical Chemis- 
try, Anatomy of Domesticated Animals and 
Animal Husbandary, Part IT, ৮ 

Pass. 
Acharyya, Amalkanti 
Bandyopadhyay, Bholanath, 
Bandyopadhyay, Gita. 
Bhattacharyya, Amarnath 
Bhattacharyya, Asoknath. 
Bhattacharyya, Bhairab 
Bhattacharyya, Ujjwalkumar. 
Biswas, Biswambhardas. 
Chattopadhyay, Arunkumar. 

10 Chaudhuri, Gopendubhushan. 
Chaudhuri, Subhashchandra. 
Dattachaudhuri, Kalyanchandra, 
De, Satyaranjan. 

De, Sunilkumar, 

Dhirendra Singh Bhandari. 
Gongopadhyay, Satyaranjan, 
Ghatak, Sudhansubhushan. 
Ghosh, Anilkanti. 

Ghosh, Chittaranjan. 

20 Ghosh, Dilipkumar. 

Guha, Binaykrishna. 
Gupta, Ramnarayan, 
Kanjilal, Bikaschandra. 
Ladu Ram Verma. 
M. 8. Simon. 
Mitra, Rathin. 
Nag, Nerayanchandra. 
Patra, Dayanidhi. 
Saha, Bijaykrishna. 
30 Sen, Dibakar. 
81 Ved Prakash Arora, 


N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


Registered No. 62097 


Calritta 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 


PART IIl—Advertisements, Notices 


Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc., in the 
‘‘Calcutta Cazette’’? (Part 11). 


1, Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in ۱۱۸۶۰ 
2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type- 
written below the signature. 


3, Manuscripts Intended for advertisement in the next issue of ‘‘Caloutta Gazette’’ shall be recelved by Publication 
Sales Office at New Seoretariat Bulidings, 1 11889111789 Street, Caloutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at 88680 Office 


at Allpore up to 12 noon on Monday. 
4. All costs shall be paid In advanoe and deposited along with the Manusoripts. 


5. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING 
(PUBLICATION BRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


The Press shall not be held responsible for delay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 
EAE ওজর চা GE LGA LIIE DNDN হা 5930রাত BET TG TE ITIVE LG SNES I BLO ہد‎ TE ETE TIE BE ডিনার ০ উড, 


instructions detailed above. : 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, IN 
MATTER NO. 117 OF 1956 INSOLVENCY 


NOTICE OF ADJUDICATION ORDER. 
No. 20 of 1956, 
Re. Arnold Joseph D’Cruze, residing at No. 42, Moti Seal 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORDINARY ORIGINAL 01৮11, JURISDICTION 


In the matter of Indian Companies Act Street, in the town of Calcutta, and working for Be 
as a stenographer at Messrs. Alfred Herbert & 10.5 
and India Private, Ltd., No. 13/3, Strand Road, in Calcutta 


aforesaid, ex parte the debtor—In person. 


in the matter of Kalyan Spinning & Weaving Mills, Ltd. 
ON the 27th day of July 1956, an order was made by the 


NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for the winding High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
up of the abovenamed Company by the High hee ٠ বা یمم علارلڈ‎ the abovenamed as an insolvent. 
‘ : ted to the sm 
THe ES 27258 prenen : ' Note.—Al] debts due to the estate should be paid to me. 


Court. by Haji Mohammad Deen carrying on business at 
No. 67/1, Canning Street, Calcutta, a creditor of the said 


Company, and that the said petition is directed to be heard M. M. CHAKRABARTY, Official Assignee. 
before the Court on 27th August 1956. Any creditor or 6C 1H Street 
contributory of the said Company desirous of opposing @n ouncil House Street. 
order for the winding up of the said Company under the Dated this 3rd day of August 1956. 


above Act should uppear at the time of hearing by himself 
or his Attorney or Advocate for that purpose and a copy 
of the petition will be turnished to any creditor or contri- 
hutory of the said Company requirmg the same, by the 


undersigned, on payment of the prescribed charge for the UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
same, 
Advertisement No. 31 
5 B. کا‎ SEN & CO., সাদ are শা for the ০ 
: ১088 from Indian citizens and persons migrate rom 
Attorneya for the spplicant. uous with intention of permanently settling in India 
10 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 
French possessions in india. Upper age-limits relaxablo 


] by 5 years for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 
3890) the 1st day of August 1956. candidates and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 

: রা No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and will 

Note.—Rulo 57 provides that any person who intends to in no case be relaxed beyond three years. Particulars and 


appear on the hearing of the suid petition must serve on or application forms from Secretary, Union Public Service 
send by post 10) the abovenamed, notice in writing of his Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. Requests for 
11110116101) so to do. The notice must state the name_and forms must specify name of post and should be accom- 
iddrea& of the person, or, if a firm, the name and address pamed by self-addressed unstamped envelope for each post 
of the firm, and must be served, or, if posted, must be at least of size 9x4” indicating thereon name of post for 
bent by post in sufficiont time to reach the abovenamed not which forms are required. Closing date for receipt of 
later than two clear days before the 27th day of August application with treasury receipt or crossed Indian Postal 
L956, Order for Rs. 7-8 (Re. 1-14 for Scheduled Castes and 


Tribes), Ist September 1956 (15th September 1956 for 
(642—1) applicants trom abroad). Commission may remit 


860 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr 1 


enuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ 199. 
Separate application with separate fee required for each 
post. Candidates abroad may apply on_ plain paper if 
form not availablo and deposit fee with local Indian 
Embarsy. If required, candidates must appear for personal 
interview, 


1. Two Senior Flying Instructors, Civil Aviation Train- 
Ing Centre, Allahabad, under the Ministry of Communica- 
tlons.—Posts temporary but. likely to continue indefinitely. 
Tho appointment of selected candidates will be for period 
of two years in first instance. Pay:—Rs, 1,5 per 
monsem fixed. The pay of permanent Government servants 
will be woverned by appropriate rules and orders. 88917 
Preferably helow 40 years. Qualifications——Essential:—(i) 
Total flyimg oxperience of about 5,000 hours. (ii) Total 
experionce as Pilot-in-Command about 2,000 hours. (111) 
Kxpenence on Dakotas or bigger aircraft essential for one 
of two posts. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


2. One Research Officer at the Malaria Institute of 
india, Delhi.—Post temporary but likely to continue. 
Pay:—Rs. 275—25--500--K. B.—30—650—F. B.—30—800. 
All private practice including laboratory and consultation 
practice not allowed. Pay 01 person already in permanent 
Government service will be fixed according to rules. 
tligher initial) pay ito specially qualified and exporienced 
candidate. Age:—Boluw 40 years. Relaxable for Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications—Essential:—(i) At least 
Second Class Master’s or oquivalent Honours degree in 
Chemistry of recognised University. (ii) About 3 years’ 
post-M.Sc, rosearch experience in Synthetic Insecticides 
and/or Anti-malarials. Qualifications relaxable at Com- 
mission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise well- 
qualified. 


3. One permanent Senior Scientific Officer, Grade 1 
(Physics), Defence Science Organisation, Ministry of 
Defence.—Pay:—Rs.  600—40—1,000—1, 1,050-—1,050 
——1,100—1,100—1, 150, Higher imitial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate, Age:—Preferably 
above 35 years. Qualifications—Essentlal:—(i) Doctorate 
in Physics or First Class Master’s degree in Physics with 
Flectronics as one of papers from recognised University. 
(ii) About 3 years’ experience in high class research in 
Radar, Electronics or Tele-communication. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


4, One Senior Scientific Officer, Grade 1] (Metallurgist), 
indian Naval Chemical and Metallurgical Laboratory, 
Bombay, Ministry of Defence.—Posts temporary but likely 
to be made permanent. Preference to candidates belong- 
ing to Scheduled Castes/Tribes. Pay:—Rs. 600—40— 
1000-1 ,000—1 ,050—1,050—1,100—1,100—1,150. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:—Ireferably above 35 years. Qualjfications--Essen- 
tial:—(1) At least Second Class degree in Metallurgy. Or 
At least Second Class Master’s or equivalent Honours 
degree in Science or at least Second Class degree in 
Engineering with diploma in Metallurgy in addition. (ii) 
About 5 years’ advanced metallurgical experience in indus- 
try or about 5 years’ experience of Metallurgical research 
in recognised University or institution. Qualifications 
relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


5. One Junior Research Officer, Minor Forest Products 
Branch, Forest Researoh Institute and Colleges, Dehra 
Dun, Mimistry of Food and Agriculture.—Post permanent 
but appomtment will be made on temporary basis. Pay: 
Rs. 275—25—500—H. ~ B.—30—650—E.  B.—30— 800. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age: --Below 35 yenrs. Relaxable for Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications-- Essential:—(i) At 84 
Second Class Master’s or equivalent Honours degree in 
Botany, preferably with Chemistry as aubject at the B.Sc. 
stuge from recognised University. (ii) Training and/or 
field experience in Economic Botany, preferably with 
reference to minor forest products. Qualifications relax- 
able at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates other- 
wise well-qualified. 


6. One Assistant Research Officer (Grade 11), Ministry 
of External Affairs.—Post temporary but. likely to continue. 
Post reserved for Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidates, if 
such suitable candidates available, otherwise treated 
unreserved. Payi:—-Rs. 300—20—500. Higher initial pay 
to spemially qualified and expernenced candidate. Age:— 
Between 25 and 40) years. Relaxable for Government 
servants. Qualifications—Essential:—(i) Degree in Arts of 
recognised University, preferably with Social Science sub- 
jects. (11) Research experience in International Affairs. 
Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 
of candidates otherwise well-qualified, 


7. Two Assistant Research Officers (Grade 1), Ministry 
of External Affairs.—.Posts temporary but likely to 
continue. Posts reserved for Scheduled Castes /lribes 
candidates, if such suitable candidates available. other- 
wise treated unreserved. Pay:—Rs. 350—25—500—30— 
620. Highor initial pay to specially’ qualified and experi- 
enced candidates. Age:—Beotween 25 and 40 years. 


7 


. 
Relaxable for Government servants. Qualifications— 
Essentlal:—-(i) Degree in Arts of recognised University, 
preterably with Social Science subjects. (11) About three 
years’ expericnce of research in International Affairs, 
Qualifications relaxable at Commussion’s discretion im case 
of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, KHARAGPUR 


Advertisement No. 8/58 


APPLICATIONS (in  dupheate) invited for under- 
mentioned post from Indian citizens and persons migrated 
from Pakistan with intentfon of permanently settling in 
India or subjects of Nopal. Sikkim or Portuguese posses- 
sion in India, Higher initi#l pay for specially qualified 
und experienced candidates. Particulars and application 
forms from Registrar. Indian Institute of Technology, 
Kharagpur. Requests ior forms must specify name of 
post and should be accompanied by self-addressed unstamp. 
ed onvelupe at least of size 9" x4" indicating thereon name 
of post tor which forms are required. Closing date for 
receipt of applications together with treasury receipt or 
crossed Indian Postal Order for Rs. 7-8 (Rs. 1-14 for 
Schedulod Castes and Tribes), marked payable to Secre- 
tary, Union Public Service Commission at New Delhi Post 
Office, 180 September 1956 (15th September 1956 for 
candidates abroad). Union Public Service Commission 
may remit genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced 

erson’s fee. Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper 
if forms are not available and deposit fee with local Indian 
Embassy. [If required. candidates must appear tor 
personal interview. Qualifications relaxable in the case of 
candidates otherwise well qualified. Applications should be 
sent to Registrar, Indian Inatitute of Technology, 
5 Appointment can be terminated according to 
rules 


One Lecturer in Physics. Post permanent and pension- 
able. Pay:—Rs. 350 —350-—380—380—30—590—E. B.—-30— 
770-40-0, 


Age:—Preferably above 25 yoars. 


Qualifications—Essential:—(i) First Class Master's 
Degree in Physics and specialisation in one or more of the 
following subjects:—(a) Experimental Industrial Physics, 
(b) Solid State Physics; (০) X’Ray. (ii) About 3 years 
laboratory experience covering Optical and Ray 
equipment, (111) About two years’ teaching experience in 
an institution of University standard. Destirable:—(i) 
Doctorate in Physics; (ii) Experience in Fabricating and 
building up Research equipment; (ii1) Experience سز‎ 
Guiding Research. The candidate selected for appoint- 
ment will be required to join duty immediately after 
solection. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 33(a) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Lecturer in Mathomatica, Hengal Engineering College. 
Sibpore, in the West Bengal General Service. Women are 
considered unsuitable. 


(1) Quallfications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship ot India as defined in Part آ1‎ of the 
Constitution of India. 


(11) A 13,815 degree with Honours in Mathematics plus 
first class M.Sc. degree in Mathemsetics of a 
Indian University or a good Honours degree of a 
British University. 


(it) Teaching or Research experience of 2 years. 
(iv) Good power of expression in Bengali. 


ند 


Desirable 


(i) Post-graduate degree in Research Training. 


(11) Good knowledge of Elasticity or Hydrodynamics or 
Dynamics or Electricity or Thermodynamics of 
Statistics or Function Theory or Differential 
Equation, 


(101) Ability and willingness to carry on Research. 


Age ordinarily below 30 but not leas than 25 yeara on 
Ist August 1956, relaxable in the case of candidate® 
possessing exceptionally high qualifications and for persons 
serving in the Education Department, West Bengal. The 
upper age-limit is reluxuble by 5 years for Scheduled 
Caxtes/Tmbes and up to 45 years for displaced persole 
from Pakistan, 


Tho upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Goverumont servant in) undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of Kast Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that 
Government and has come over to India as refugee. 


parr IT] 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
inoral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in کر‎ 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted will be 
eyual to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum of 


jour years. 


(2) Pay.—Tho scalo of pay is Rs. 300—25—600 per 
month plus usual dearness allowance. The selected 
candidate will be entitled to quarters within the College 
compound subject to payment of 10 per cent. of 
omoluments. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
wil be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending ھ‎ 
large self-addressed envelope with stumps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette’ of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than’ the 24th August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
‘previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
‘from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
eharacter, 


(5) Fee.—Can@idates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. & (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXVI— 
Miscellanecous-—Receipts of the Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, etc., in Leu of 
treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, how- 
ever, mav be accepted from candidates. They should be 
crossed and made payable to ‘‘The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’. No application will 
be considered unless accompanied with the requisite 
application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing feo that their applications will be 
forwarded bv their superior officers, In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced porsons from Vakistan. 


Note.—‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory ovidence 
that he is a hone fide 4 person from Pakistan, 
e.g., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parlhament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe .cluuming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belony. 


(111) ۸ displaced person seeking remission of the 
application 190 must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) wbove, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed 677 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their দি through persons of 
influence or officialg of Government will disqua ify them 
or appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
Persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregard: d ie 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary omployvment under any Government, a local 
or Stetutory Body (o.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
ndia will be reyectod unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


এ. 00. CHOWDHORI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the 318৮ July 1956. 


1111) CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 361 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 33(b) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Assistant Professor of Sanskrit im the West Bengal 


Educational Service (Men's Branch). Women 515 
considered unsuitable, 
(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(1) Citizenship of India ay defined in Part آ1‎ of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) A first class Master’s degree or a second class 
Master's degree with first class Honours in the 
Bachelor’s degree or a Doctorate degree with a 
second class Master's or first class Honours degree 
in Sanskrit, of an Indian University or equivalent 
toreign qualifications. 


(iii) A good Master’s degree in Pali. 


(iv) ‘Two years’ teaching experience in Sanskrit in a 
College relaxable for a candidate possessing high 
academic qualifications or having done significant 
research work, 


Desirable 


(i) سے ان‎ for carrying on research work in the case 
of candidates who do not possess a Doctorate 
degree. 


(ii) Good power of expression in Bengali—spoken and 
written. 


Age not more than 36 years on Ist August 1956, relax- 
able in the case of candidates possessing exceptionally 
high qualifications. No age-limit for the candidates 
serving in the Education Department, West Bengal. The 
upper age-limit relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled Castes / 
Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant jin undivided Bengal, who 9 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 160) August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will he equal to Ne exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four vears. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 250 -20—650—~25—750 
plus usual allowances. Question of granting higher 
initial pay may be considered in exceptional cases. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
yy are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson Hlouse (ground 
floor), Ahpore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
largo self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to if. দি who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording nnd spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette" of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up m the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not 1807 than the 24th August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous oxperience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifving to their private 
character, 


(5) Fee,.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Its. 5 (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Reserve Bank ot India under the head ৮৮... 
Miscellancous—Roceipts of the Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, ete., im lieu of 
treasury chasans are not accepted. Postal orders, how- 
ever, may he accepted from candidates. They should he 
crossed and made payable to “The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, Wost Bengal’, No application will, 
be considered unless accompanied with the requisite 
application fee. 


362 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


cman 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their 0 will be 
forwarded by their superior officers, In no case will the 
tee paid with the apphcation be retunded. 


The Commission may remit tee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons. {trom Pakistan. 


Note,-—'‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bon fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., refugee rogistration card or & certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from ao gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parhament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particulur caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(17) A displaced person seeking Temission of the 
application tee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) mwhove, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescrited fee.” 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 


change ot address 


(7) Canvassing.—Any igo on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
‘nfluence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 


them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under an Government, -a- local 
or Statutory Body te.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. C. CHOWDHOURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 8186 July 1956. 


ene 
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 336০) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Lecturer in Statistics in the West Bengal Junior Educa- 
tional Service (Men’s Branch). ۸ panel of suitable 
candidates will also be propared for future vacancies. 
Women are unsuitable. The selected candidates may be 
posted anywhere in West Bengal including Calcutta. 


1 ualifications.— 
1 Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part 11 of the 
Constitution ot India. 


(ii) Kither, a first class Master’s degree in Statistics; 
Or, 
۸ second class Master’s degree in Statistics with a 


first class Bachelor's Honours degree in Statistics, 
Mathematics, Economics or Physics; 
Or, 

A Doctorate degree in Statistics with a second class 
Master’s degree in Statistics, or first class 
Bachelor's Honours degree in Statistics, Mathe- 
matics, Economics or Physics ; 


Or, 
Equivalent foreign qualifications. 


Desirable 


Good power of oxpression in Bengali—written and 
spoken 


Age not more than 30 years on Ist August 1956, relax- 
able in the case of candidates possessing exce tionally high 
valitications and for persons serving in the Education 
দাদার West Bengal. The upper age-limit is relax- 
able by 5 years tor Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 
years for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim Gov- 
ernment servant in undivided Bengal, who had originally 
opted to serve in Fast Bengal and was working under the 
Government of Fast Bengal after partition, but has since 
‘formally resigned his service under that Government and 
has come over to India ag refugee. 


SR 


[Part 1 


2 টাইপ আহ 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned, or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle 
lor independence, not being convicted of an _ offence 
indicating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a conces- 
sion in respect of the upper age-limit. The concession 
granted will be equal to the exact period of detention, 
Imprisonment, internment or oxternment suffered up to a 
maximum ot four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 200—10—420—15—450 
2er mensem plus usual allowances, Higher initial pay of 

s. 300 per month within the scale will be allowed to the 
selected candidate, 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application. 
ا"‎ are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available trom the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending ھ‎ 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
ublished in the ‘Calcutta Gazette’’ of the 1st September 
955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 24th August 19586. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.---Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receiyted chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Reserve Bank of India under the head ‘“XXXVI~ 
Miscellaneous—Receipts of the Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu of 
treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, how- 
ever, may be accepted from candidates. Thev should be 
crossed and made payable to “Tho Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”. No application will 
be considered unless accompanied with the requisite 
application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will ما‎ 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide ا‎ person from Pakistan, 
6.g., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parllament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(11) A member of tho Scheduled Castes or Scheduled 
Tribes claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a cortificate in original from a gazetted_officer 
or a Member of Parhament or State Logislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(111) A displaced person  secking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) wbove, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a pgazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee.’”’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates © should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change ot address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service, 


S. ©. CHOWDTIURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal, 


Alipore, the 3lst July 1950. 


Part It] 
€ 


1ء 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisoment No. 33(d) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Lecturer in Islamic History and Culture in the West 
Bengt Junior Kducational Service (Men’s Branch). A 
janol of suitable candidates will also be prepared for 
ture vacancies, Women are unsuitable, 


1) Quallfications.— 
রঃ ۰ Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part IT of the 
Constitution of India. 


Gi) A good Master’s degree in Islamic History and 
‘ Culture of an [ndian University, preferably with 
'- Honours in Arabic or in Islamic Studies, 


. Or, 


[821] Examination of Bihar or Uttar Pradesh or Title 

: Examination of Bengal or equivalent qualifications 
plus ٭‎ good Honours degree in Arabic or Islamic 
Studies of an Indian University. 


(iii) KMvidence of Scholarship in different branches of 
Islamic Studies, 


Desirable 


Good power of expression in Dengali—written and 
spoken. 


, Age not more than 30 years on Ist August 1956, relax- 

le in the case of candidates possessing exceptionally 
high qualifications and for persons serving in the Education 
Department, West Bengal. ‘The upper age-limit relaxable 
by 2 years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years 
for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally” opted to serve in Fast Bengal and was working 
under the امکساسو‎ of Fast 1১171 after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 


ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four ۰ئ‎ 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 200+10—420—15—450 
ا‎ month plus usual allowances. The question of granting 
ligher initial pay may be considered in exceptional cases. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of appiication.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Servica 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally or on sending চি 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette’ of the 18٦ September 
1955, provided the blanks ure filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretarv and 
should reach him not later than the 24th August 1956. 


(4) Partioulars and oertificates required.—Oandidates 
Should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together yith certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the dafe of their applications, 
from responsible persons, teatifying to their private 
character, 


(5) Fee.—-Condidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Roserve Bank of India under the head ‘XXXVI 
Miscellaneous-—Receipts of the Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal’. Money orders, cheaues, ete., in lieu of 
treasury chalanga are not accepted. Postal orders, how- 
ever, mav he accepted from candidates. They shouldbe 
crossed and made pavahle to “The Secretary, Public 
Servico Commission, West Bengal’. No application — will 
دنا‎ considered unless accompanied with the requisite 
application fee. 


Candidates im Government service should make sure 
before depositing fec that their apnlications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fea paid with the application be refunded, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 9, 1956 363 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persona from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bone fide নিট person from Pakistan, 
9.৮, refugee registration card or ھ‎ certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


Gi) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age coycession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Schoduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iit) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) wbove, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to sow that he is not in 
a& position to pay tho prescribed fee.” 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointinent. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
Tndia will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service, | 


85. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the 31st July 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 34(a) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for one temporary post of 
Skipper and two temporary posts of Understudy Skipper 
under the Development Department. West Bengal. The 
selected candidates will have to assist in Engine Room 
work, whenever required. 


(]) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of tho. 
Constitution of India. 


(ii)’ ۸ certificate of competency of Mate Home Trade 
granted by the Government of India under the 
Indian Merchant Shipping Acts. 


Or, 

A second Mate Foreign Going of Commonwealth 
Validity ; 6 
r, 


Requisite 1 of service for appearing at the Second 
Hand Fishermen’s Examination as laid down in 
the rules. 


Desirable 


(1) Knowledge of Sea Fishing with Power propelled 
vessels. 


Gi) Knowledge of Bengali—spoken and written. 


Age ordinarily between 20 and 35 years on Ist August 
1956, relaxable for candidates otherwise well-qualified. 
The upper age-limit is relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled 
Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced porsons 
from Pakistan, 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition but 
has sinee formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the J5th August 1947 was 
detained, nnprisoned, interned or exierned on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to 4 concession in respect 
of the upper age-lmit. The concession granted will 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment. 
internment or externment sufferad up to a maximum of 
four years, 


364 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr IT 


(2) Pay.—-The scale ot pay 1s Rs. 500—30—680—40— 
1,20) per month plus dearness allowance plus daily allow- 
ance at Rs. 7 per day spent at sea. Higher initial pay is 
admissible to a candidate specially well-qualified and 
exporienced. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of appiication.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficiont to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette” of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates 
own handwriting, 


The application must be addressed to the Secretarv and 
should reach him not later than the 2৪৮ August 1986. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—-Candidates 
should furmsh evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXX VI—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, ete., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made pavahle to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’, No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their anplications will he 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent. and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


—™ 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is ٭‎ bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., Tefugee registration card or a certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
appheation a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature heloaging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifving the 


particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) ۸ displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or £ Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
& position to pay the prescribed fee.’’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


(7) Canvassing. -Any attempt on the nart of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government. will disqualify them 
for - appointinent. Spontaneons recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under anv Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) m 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointmg authority of their posts or service. 


5. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipore, the 3rd August 1956, 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 34(b) 


APPLICATIONS are itvited for a permanent post of 
Science Mistress, Dow Hill Girls’ School, Kurseong, in tho 
West Bengal Genera) Service (Education). The selected 
candidate will have to pass the prescribed Departmental 
Kxamination before confirmation. Men are unsuitable. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(1) Citizenship of India as defined in Part IL of the 
Constitution of India. 


(11) A degree in Scienco. 


(iii) Training in «a recognised Training Inatitution, 
relaxable for a candidate possessing a good degree 
and sound oxperience in teaching in a_well- 
established residential institution. 


(iv) Three years’ teaching experience in ج‎ Secondary 
School. 


Desirable 


Ability to teach Physics, Chemistry and Biology up to 
Semor Cambridge Standard and Botany and 
General Science up to Standard VITT and Mathe- 
matics in Classes V and VI, 


Age not more than 40 years on lst August 1956, relax- 
able in the case of candidates possessing exceptionally high 
qualifications and for persons serving in the Education 
Department, Government of West Bengal. The upper age- 
limit 1s relaxable by 5 years for Scheduled Castes /Tribes 
and for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition but 
has aimee formally resigned her service under that 
Government and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
her activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to » maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 2751038375 per 
month plus usual allowances. Question of granting higher 
initia) pay may be considered in exceptional cases. Free 
furnished quarters will be provided, occupier’s share ot 
Municipal Tax and cost of electric current consumed being 
payable by the incumbent. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of apnlioation.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazotto”’ of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 31st Angust 1956. 

(4) Particulars and _ certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of thoir applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan trom 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head_‘“‘XXXVI—Miscellaneous— Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders, 
cheques, ete,, in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates, 
Thoy should be crossed? and made pavable to “The 
Seeretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government set¥ice should make sure 
hefore depositing fee thet thelr anplicationg will be 
forwarded hy their superior officers. In no casa will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


7 IT] 


০০ 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with her application satisfactory evidence 
thut she i» a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
ریم‎ refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
gavetted officer or a Member of Parlament or State 
Legalature, in original, 


(71) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with her 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which she claims to belong. 


(10) ۸ displaced person seeking remission of the 
application feo must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
781171৮001৮ or State Legislature to show that she is not in 
a position to pay the proscribed ۰ 


(6) Address.-Candidates should give their p.: sent 
address aud should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing..-Any attempt on the می‎ of candidates 
to dnlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for sie jpointinent. Spontaneous recommendation from 
ھی‎ interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to tham will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent, 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless thoy are submittdd through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


S. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Ahpore, the 2nd August 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 
Advertisement No. 34(0) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Assistant, Director of Fisheries, West Bengal, in the West. 
Bengal General Servicg, 


(1) Qualifications,— 
Essential 


(1) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India, 


Qi) High academic qualifications preferably a 
Doctorate degree in Zoology, Biology or Applied 
Chemistry. 


(111) Five years’ experience in some branch of practical 
fisheries or fish technological industries, 


(iv) Research experionce preferably in problems coucern- 
ing fish and fisheries. 


(v) Organising ability und administrative experience. 


Desirable 
(i) Experience in fishery practices in West Bongal. 
(11) Sound knowledgo of Bengali—spoken and written. 


(111) Experience of fishery dovelopmont work. 


د7 


Age between 90 and 35 years on Ist August 1956, relax- 
able for a person serving in West Bongal Fishery Service 
and up to 40 years in the case of exceptionally qualified 
Candidates, The upper age-limit is relaxable by 5 yoarn 
Or Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for 
isplaced persons from Pakistan. 


the upper age-lmit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal who had 
Onginally opted te serve in East Bengal and was working 
Widor the Government of East Bongal after partition but 
188 since formally rosigned his service under that 
Overnmont and hes come over to India as refuges. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 365 


ور سے রক‏ سس عم জারির “এসপি‏ 


A candidate who hefore the طاٹا‎ August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s টি for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted will he 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or oxternment suffered up to a maximum of 
four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 250—20—-650-—25—750 
per month plus a special pay of Rs. 150 per month and 
usual allowances. ighor initial pay up to Rs. 450 per 
month may he allowed in case of candidates well qualified 
and experienced. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
ell be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unalfe to obtuin copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Caleutta Gazette’ of the Ist September, 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary und 
should reach him not later than the 318৮ August 1956. 


(4) Particulars 8170 certificates required.-—Candidatos 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifymg to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions 7 fee of Rs. 5 an the form of a receipted chalan trom 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI- Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders, 
caeques, etc., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from রাত 
They should be crossed and made payable to “The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. No 
application will he considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will he 
forwarded by their superior officers. Jn no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnigh with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is ٭‎ bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., refugee registration card or a certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Trihe, specifying tho 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of tho 
application fee inust furnish hesides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or au gasetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
৪ position to pay the prescribed fee.” 


(6) Address.--Candidates should give their present 
uddress and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.-~Any attempt on the ast of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through ا‎ of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontuneous recommendation — from 
porsons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will bo disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under anv Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valloy Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unle-. they are submitted through 
the appomting authority of their posts or service. 


53. ۰ CHOWDHURL <۵ cetary, 
Public Servico Commission, ۱۷ ا“‎ Bengal. 
Alipore, the 2nd August 10936. 


366 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


1 


[Parr IT 
চু 


পাল্লা 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 38(a) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for three temporary posts 
of Lecturer in Economics in_ the West Bengal Junior 
Educational Service (Men’s Branch). Two of the posts 
will be filled up by candidates having a Master’s degree in 
Economies and the remaining one by @ candidate with a 
Master’s deyree in Political Science. Women are unsuit- 
able for the posts. A panel of suitable candidates will 
also be prepared for future vacancies. The selected 
candidates may be posted anywhere in West Bengal 
including Caleutta. 


(1) Quallfications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part IT of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) A first class Master's degree in Economics or 
Political Science ; 
Or, 


A second class Master’s degree in Economics or 
Political Science with first class Honours in the 
Bachelor's degree in Economics, 


Or, 


A Doctorate degree in Economics _or Political Science 
with first class Honours in Feonomics or secon 
class Master’s degree in Economics or Political 
Science of an Indian University ; 


Or, 


Equivalent foreign quadifications. 


Desirable 


Good power of expression in Bengali—spoken and 
written. 


Age not more than 30 vears on Ist August 1956, relax- 
rable in the case of candidates possessing , exceptionally 
high quahfications and for persons serving in the Educa- 
tion Department, West Bengal. The upper age-limit is 
relaxable by 5 vears for Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up 
to 45 yoars for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally onted to serve in Fast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
tment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained. imprisoned. interned or externed on account of 
۶ط‎ activities in connection with the countrv’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to @ concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
wil be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four verrs, 


(2) Pay.—The 8816 of pay 7 Rs. 200-—10—420—15—450 
plus usual allowances. The question of granting higher 
initial pay may be cousidered in exceptional cases. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calceutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamus sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar tvped (not handwritten) form’ showing 
exact]; the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘‘Caleutta Gazette” of the 1st September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should rexch him not later than the 8318+ August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates requifed.—Candidates 
shonld furnish evidence of their ape, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one vear prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 

(5) Foe. Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
1100+ a fae of Re. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
n Governinent Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head এসো -Wiscellaneous—Rereipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money: orders, 
cheques, ete., in heu of treasury chalans ate not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 


They should be crossed amd made payable to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. 
No application will be considered unless accompanied with 
the requisite application 199. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. Jn_no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of gonuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.——‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
o.g., refugee registration card or a certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original, 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Casto or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(11) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (1) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 4th August 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 38(b) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for four temporary posts of 
Inspector of Drugs under the Drugs Act, 1940, in tho West 
Bengal General Service. Women are suitable for one of 
the tour posts only. Persons having any financial interest 
in the manufacture, noport and sale of drugs will not be 
appointed, The selected candidates must be passed fit by 
a Medical Board. 


(1) Qualifications.—- 


(i) Citiazenship of India ag defined in Part TI of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) Either (a) a degree in Pharmacy or Pharmacoutical 
Chemistry or a post-graduate degréc in Chemistry 
with Pharmaceutics as ai special subject of a 
recognised University. 


Or, 
(b) Membership of the Pharmaceutical Society of Great 
Britain, 
Or, 


(c) A degree in Medicine or Science of a recognised 
University having one year’s post-graduate train- 
ing either in a laboratory under (i) a Government 
Analyst appointed under the Drugs Act, 1940, or 
(11) a Chemical Examiner, or (iti) a Fellow of the 
Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain 
(Branch FE) or in the Pharmacology Department 
of the School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta, or of 
a recognised Medical College, 


Or, 


(0) a diploma in Pharmaceutical Chemistry granted by 
the Pharmacentienl Society of Great Britain. 


Ave ordinarily not mote than 35 years on ۱۸۴ August 
1956, relaxable in the case of candidates possessing excep- 
tionally high qualifications end the Government servants. 
Upper age-limit rolaxable hy 5 years for Scheduled Castes/ 
Tribes and up to 45 yeats for dixplared persons frort 
Pakistan, 


parr IT] 


The upper age-limit ds rolaxable for a non-Muslim 
Goverment servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
01110704115 opted to serve in Mast Benyal and was working 
under the Governmont of Kast Bongal after partition but 
has since tormally resignod his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude shall be entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper ayze-lmit. The concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
interniuent or externment suffered up to a maximum of 
four ۰ء‎ 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 200—10—420—15—450 
plus # conveyance allowance of Rs. 20 (E.B. after 10th 
and 18th stages) plus usual allowances. The question of 
grunting higher initial pay may be considered in excep- 
tional cases. A Medical graduate, if selected, will be 
deharred from private practice but will be given a non- 
practising allowance in the scale of Rs. 40-6] 2-100. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the oflice of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Aliporn, Caleutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta 08290 of the lst September 1955, provided 
the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 3lst August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character, 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., In lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
betore depositing fee that their applications will be for- 
warded by their superior officers. In no case will the fee 
paid with the application be refunded. 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 


must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence — 


that he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g., 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer ‘es a Memper of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Castos or Scheduled 
Tribes claimigy, age concession must furnish with his 
applicatidh a certificate in original fram a gazetted officer or 
&® Member of Parliaithent or State Legislature belonging to 
the Schedulgd Castes or Scheduled Tribes, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(i) A খান নি, person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
ote (1) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 


bay the prescribed 109.) 


(6) Address.—Candidates shkbuld give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
Change of address. 

(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist Bupport of their کڈ‎ tions through persons of 
influence or officiala of Governnftnt will disqualify them for 
4ppointment. Spontaneous recommendation from persons 
Interested ize the candidates @r otherwise known to them 
will be disregarded. 3 


— 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 367 


সপ 


(8) Applications trom candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (¢.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will bo rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 4th August 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 37(a) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Lecturer, David Hare Training College, Calcutta, in the 
West Bengal Junior Educational Service (Men’s Branch). 
A panel ot suitable candidates will also be prepared for 
future vacancies. Women are unsuitable for the post. 


(1) Qualifications,— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part Il of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) A first class Master’s degree of an Ing 
University in a subject other than Educatiop with 
a second class degree or a diploma#in 
Teaching of a foreign University. 
Or, : 
A second class Master’s degree of an Indian Universijy 
in a 0 other than Education with » first 


class ۰ degree or a diploma in Teaching of a 
foreign University. 


Or, 


A good Master’s degree in Education of an Indian 
University or a Master’s degree in Education of a 
foreign University with second class Master’s 
degree and/or Honours degree of an Indian 
University ; 

(iii) Specialisation in Infant and Primary school 

subjects ; 


(iv) Competence to teach Educational Psychology. 


Desirable 


(i) Knowledge of Education of the retarded, handicap- 
ped children with reference to mentally retarded 
or educationally handicapped children; 


(ii) Good power of expression in Bengali—spoken and 
written ; 


(iii) Teaching experience in a Training Institution. 


Age not more than 30 years on Ist August 1956, relax- 
able for exceptionally qualified candidates and for 0ئ‎ 
serving in Education Department, West Bengal. The 
upper age-limit is relaxable by 5 years for members of 
Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced 
persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, whg had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition .but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country's struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude shal] be entitled to a concession 11) respect 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted will 19 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum of 
four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 200—10—420—15—450 
plus usual allowances. Question of granting higher initial 
pay may be considered in exceptional cases. 


and sound experience in teaching in a well-established 
residential institution. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with’ stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘Calcutta Gazette’? of the lat September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting, 


568 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr ا‎ 


the ap ;lication must be addressed ০ the Secretary and 
shoulud reach Jum uot later than the 3lst August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age,+ qualifications and 
previous expericnco together with certificates written not 
mnore than one year phior to tbe date of their applications, 
trom responsible persons, testitying to their private 
character. . 


' (5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. & (for each category of posts) 
in the torm of a receipted chalan_ trom a Gov- 
ernment ‘Treasury or the. Reserve Bank of India 
underathe head ‘“XXXVJ—Miscellanequs—Keceipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, ete., in leu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed und made ئ٢‎ to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. No 
appheation wall be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite ayplication toe. 


Candidates in GoveyHment service should make sure 
before depositing fee thet their applications will be 
forwarded hy their superter officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit foe in case of genuinely 
indigent and bena fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


গা s 

ve, we ''(i) A ڈارف‎ ‘person claiming age concession 
ار١ پا ھا‎ ven with lus* application satisiactory evidence 
thai he a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 


&.g.,qretuges registration card or ھ‎ certificate from a 


gazetted officer or a Momber of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original, 


Gi) “A meinber of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must turnish with his 
application a certificate im original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belorging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(111) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Qflicer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position Tu pay. the prescribed fee.’? 


(6) Address.—Candidates 0ط‎ give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address, 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their a phous ae through persons cf 
influence or officials of Government will disc গা them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation = trom 
persons imterosted in the-tandidates or otherwise known 
to them will bp disregarded. 


» (8) Anplications from candidates who are in permanent 
ہ‎ temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 

‘India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


< S. 0. CHOWDHURI. Secretary, 
we Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 
Alipores, the 4th 40৮5৮ 1956. 


“ow 


+ 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 37(b) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Lecturer in Art and Craft, Government Training ‘ollege, 
Hooghly, in theo West Bengal Junior Educational Service 
(Men's Branch). Womeu are unsuitable for the post. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 
(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India; 
(11) Mgtriounlation examination or its equivalent; 


(ni) A diploma of a recognised School of Art with 
adequate knowledge 01 drawing and designing; 


(iv) Specialisation in more than one craft, preferably 
with practical experience in an Institution or 
Cottage Industry. 


Desirable 


(1) A University degree; 

(ii) Good power of expression in Bengali—spoken and 
written; 

(iti) Practionl teaching experience in Secondery Schools 
or in Teachers’ Training Colleges. 


Age ]مس‎ more than 30 years,on the Ist August 1856, — 
rolaxable for exceptionally qualbfied candidates and for 
ersons’ serving jn the Kducation Department, West 
38181001, The upper age-limit is relaxable by 5 years foy 
members of Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years 
for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


.- 

The upper age-lmit is roelaxable for ao non-Muslim 

Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 

originally opted to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 

under the Government of East Bengal after partition buy 

has since formally resigned his service under that 
Government and has come over 10 India as refugee. 


A candidate who before tho 15th August 1947 wag 
detained, ymprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection wilh the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating * 
moral turpitude, shall bo entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper age-limit. The Concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment suflered up to a mexinum of 
four years. 


(2) Pay.--The scale of pay is Rs. 200—10—420—15.—450 
per month plus usual dearness allowance. Question of 
granting higher initial pay may be considered in exceptional 
Cases, 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed torm which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, <Andorson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stumps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exatly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette’ of the 1st September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 3lst August 1956. 


Particulars and oertificates required.—Candidates‏ اگ 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and‏ 
previous experience together with certificates written not‏ 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications,‏ 
from responsiblo persons, testifying to their private‏ 
character.‏ 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a tee of Rs. 6 in the form of a receipted chalan trom 
a Government ‘Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head ‘“XXXVI—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to “The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’, No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their ঠা will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the appheation be refunded. سس‎ 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A و‎ person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that ho is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., retuyee registration card or a certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Momber of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original, 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Castes @ @heduled 
Tribes claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original {rom a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribdg, + apecifying . 
the particular caste or tribo to which he’claime’o belong. 


(211) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion jee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate {in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Momber of سیگ مر‎ or 
State Leyislature 0ا‎ shew that he is not in a position to 


pay the prescribed 109. 
* 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 


address and should communicate tt once any subsequent 
change of address. * 


pe 
(7) Canvassing.—Any aizompt on the part of candi- , 
dates to enlist support “of their applications through | 
persons of influence ۶ہ‎ officials of Government wil 
disgyalify them tor appominuent. Spontancona  recom- 
ا‎ from persons interasted in 1۴۲ candidates of 
otherwise known to them will be disregarded, 


Part TT] 


০০ 

(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 


India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service, 


8. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 4th Angust 6۰ 


PUBLIC SERVICE 608۸۸۰۱85۱0٥0۶۱, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisem.nt No. 39 


APPLICATIONS are invite:! from members of Scheduled 
Castes tor a permanent pest of Subdivisional Publicity 
Officer under the Home (Pul icity) Department. 


(1) Qualifications.— 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part I] of the 
Constitution of India. 


(11) Ordinarily a degree of a recognised University, 
relaxable to 1.A. or 1১80, certificate in the case of 
a candidate possessing outstanding ability in 
pubhe speaking and organisation. 


(iit) Acquaintance with the daily life of rural West 
Bengal, 


(1৮) Experienca in organisation and whility to address 
gatherings in Bengali. 


“Age should not be more than 80 years on Ist August 
1956. The upper age-limit is relaxable up to 45 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of Mast Bengal after partition, but 
hag since formally resigned his service under that, Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 


thoral turpitude, shall be entitled ‘to a concession in | 


respect of the upper age-limit. The concession pranted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 125—4—205—5—225 
per month plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instructions rogarding submission of application.— 
ily شا‎ are to be made on the prescribed form. which 
will be available from the offite of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, (Calecutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 


unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 


on any similar typed 02901 handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette” of the lst September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must ‘be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than tho 31st August 1956. 


” 


Particulars andj 08181808199 required.—C‘andidates‏ اس 
should furntst evidence of thiir age, qualifications and‏ 
preyous experience together with certificates written not‏ 
more Man one year*prior to the date of their applications,‏ 
[লী sébspopsiblo persons, testilying to their private‏ 
chartteter,‏ 


(5) Fee. Candidate; must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs, 5% the form of a receipted chalan trom 
a Government Treasury ortiue Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XAXVI— Miscellaneous—Receits of ‘the 
Public Service Commission, ۱۷۵۵۲ Benyal’'. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted, 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payablo ta. ‘TRe 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. No 
application will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


_ Candidates in Government service should) make gure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by این ئن ×ط‎ officers. In no case will the 
foe paid with the application be refunded. 


سو یر Stl‏ 


پیر mt পান‏ مسجم 
উপ + পপ et‏ ایی اتا ای পাপা ৫. উস কাপ পাপ‏ گت تھے ہے .000 
রা সাত Eker a টস আন ১‏ دج یڈہ ا و আক STN‏ پچوچوہ Ee | রপ্ত পরকাল Es Heth “| বাত aA‏ و + পপ UN‏ سے ہورم ne eR‏ جو چو چو CEI‏ ہے & 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTH, AWGUST 9, 1956 ۱ 869 


PR পাস পল পল তি Soap سے‎ শশী সী রশ পপ لیم‎ সপ পিপাসা 


eters কী تحت مع‎ ai ০ পি সান 


The Commigsion may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.---“‘(i) A displaced perton claiming age concession 
must furnish with. bis application satisfactory evidence 
that he is @ bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
8.1.) refugee registration card or a certificate from a 
gazetted officer dr a Member of Parhament or State 
Legislature, in original. 

: ۱ 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled ‘Castes or Scheduled 
Tribes claiming age concession must furnish with hie 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Le cislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to balong. 


(iii) ۸ displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the presqribed fee.” 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
addross and should cotmmunicate at once any subsequent 
ehunge of address. — 


(7) Canvassing.—-Any attempt on the part’of ®andidates 
to enlist support of their গা (10101) persons df 
influence or officials of Government will 91451758111 them 
for appointment. Spontaneons “recommendation trom 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise knuwn 
to them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are.in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a iocal 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service, 


5. 6. CHOWDHOURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 4th August 1956. 


CORRIGENDUM 


With reference to, Commission’s advertisement 
No. 27(c) for recruitinent to posts of Rehabilitation 
Officers, Hefugee Relisf and Rehabilitation Departmént, 


it is notified for general information that total number of 


vacancies will be eight instead of four. Closing daty is 
extended to 18th August 1956. 
95৮0, CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 


Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Dated, Alipore, the 6th August 1956. 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 16 of the Provincial’ Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 


in the Second Court of the Additional Distriot Judge at 
Alipore. 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 12 OF 1955. 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 17th June 1955, against 
Bejoy Kumar Rakshit, son of late Durga Charan Rakshit, 
of 1/4 Monoharpukur 2nd Lane (Bustee), police-station 
Tollygungo, district 24-Parganas, and on the application 
of Sm, Lilabati Debi alias Lila Mukhetji, a-creditor, and 
on reading their applications and hearing their lawyers, it 
is ordered that the debtor be and the said debtor is hereby 
adjudged insolvent. 


Tt is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
dischwrge within six months from this date. 


Dated this lith day of July 1856. 


N. M. SARKAR, Additional District Judge. 
The 28th July 1956. 
(634—1) 


370 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [ Parr’ T] 
হিস্ট্রি টিকিট হলনা কট 


ORDER OF ADJUDICATION 


(Section 16 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, V of 1920.) 
In the Second Court of the Additional District Judge at 
Alipore. 

INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 17 OF 1955, 


PURSUANT to» petition, dated 17th August 1955, 
against Shri Jitendra Nath Ghosh, son of late Hari Nath 
Ghosh, of 70A Chandra Kumar Mandal Lane, police-station 
Tollygunge, district 24-Parganas, and on the application of 
the Sterling Bank (in liquidation), a creditor, and on read- 
ing their applications, an@ hearing the lawyers of both the 
partios, it is ordered that the debtor be and the said debtor 
18 hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
dischargo within six months from this date. 


Dated this llth day of July 6۰ 


N. M. SARKAR, Additional District Judge. 


The 28th July 1956. 
(635—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ASANSOL 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 9 OF 1956 


J. L. Wilson of 42 Loco Quarters, Asansel, petitioner. 


IT is hereby notified that the abovenamed petitioner has 
applied to be adjudged an insolvent. The Court has 
registered that application and fixed, 3lst August 1956 for 
the hearing thereof, 


A. N. CHAKRABARTI, Sub-Judge. 


Dated Asansol, the 28th July 1956. 
(636—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE, 
BIRBHUM 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 2 OF 1956 


NOTICE 1s hereby given that Shri Jagadish Chandra 
Ghose Roy, sou of late Nishikanta Ghose Hoy, of Suri, 
police-station Suri, district Birbhum, has applied to this 
Court for being adjudged an insolvent. The 20th day of 
Aygust 1956 las been fixed for hearing thereof. 


P. C. RAI CHOUDHURI, 
District Judge. 


Dated Suri, the 3lst July 1956. 
(649—1) 


NATIONAL 
BENGAL 


DIRECTORATE OF SAVINGS, WEST 


Public Notice. 


IT is notified for general information that appointment 
of the following pefson as Authorised Agent under the 
General Agency System by the Chief Presidency Magistrate, 
Calcutta, for the sale of National Savings Certificates has 
been cancelled and he is no longer vested with authority 
in this behalf :— 


Shri Mrinal Kanti Nandi, CA. No. WBP000062, 17 Sagar 
Manna Road, Behala, Calcutta-34. 


Dated, the 27th July 1956. 


M. N. SAMADAR, 
Regional National Savings Officer. 


PRESS NOTE. 


THE Finance Commission have to make recommenda- 
tions to the President on the following matters:— 


(1) the distribution’ of the net proceeds of income-tax 
between the Union amd the States and the alloca- 
tion of the States’ share among the States; 


(11) the distribution of other divisible Central taxos 
like Union excise duties; 


(111) the amounts to be paid to the States of Assam, 
Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal in lieu of the 
assignment of any share of the export duty on 
jute and jnte products; 


(iv) the principles which should govern the grants-in- 
aid of the revenues of tho States out of the 
Consolidated Fund of India;. 


(৮) the States which are in need of assistance by way 
of grants-in-aid of the revenues of those States 
and the sums to be paid to those States, having 
regard, among other considerations, to the 
requirements of the Second Five-Year Plan and 
the efforts made by those States to raise additional 
revenue from the sources available to them; 


(vi) the principles which should govern the distribution 
of the not proceeds of the oxstate duty in respect 
of property other than agricultural land; 


(vii) the modifications, if any, in the rates of interest 
and the terms of repayment of the loans made to 
the various States by the Government of India 
between the 15th August 1947 and the 3181 
March 1956. 


2. At present 55 per cent. of the divisible net proceeds 
of income-tax (other than Corporation Tax) is assigned to 
the States and distributed among them in the following 
percentage ratios:— 


State. Percentage. 
Andhra ۰ 7 ১১,649 
Assam ah me ہی‎ | eels 
Bihar ডি ۶ ১৭975 
Bombay 7 7 ww» 0 
Hyderabad 7 oF w. 4.50 
Madhya Bharat 7 - ہف‎ «= ok 
Madhya Pradesh 7 যা wn «=O 
Madras ee ee .. 9.56 
Mysore 7 oe wee 5إ‎ 
Orissa کک‎ os .. 93-60 
PEPSU a, ve ہل‎ O75 
Punjab a 7 ১০085 
Rajasthan ee “Ks ৮১950 
Saurashtra 7 নি wee 0 
Travancore-Cochin ৩, کے‎ ৪৪৮ 0 
Uttar Pradesh aa 7 يى..‎ 6 
West Bengal ۶7 ees vn ما‎ 


The shares of the States have to be rofixed as a result of 
the জি reorganization and new percentage recom- 
mended for the reorganized States. 


The share to be retained by the Centre also has to be 
determined. 


The present allocation is broadly worked out on the 
basis of 80 per cent. by population and 20 per cent. by 
collection. 


The basis of distribution of income-tax has always been 
a matter of controversy. Various bases have been suggest- 
ed for allocating income-tax— 


(i) the collection of income-tax in the various States; 


(21) the amount of income-tax realised in respect of 
income, wherever earned, of individuals resitjent in 
the different States ; 


(111) the collection of income-tax in the various States 
adjusted with reference to ,the origin of the 
income; 


(iv) the relative population of each State; 


(v) the relative volume of industrial labour im each 
State; 


(vi) the needs of the different States according to 
various qriteria; and 


(vii) different*tombinations of the ahove factors. 


3. Three Union dutios of oxcise, namely, those on 
matches, tobacco and vegetable products, gre now divisible 
between the Centre and the States and 40 per cent. of the 
net proceeds are distributed among the States on the basis 


part IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9) 1956 371 


a 
او‎ 


of population. The quantum of the taxes to be transferred 
to the States, the excises to be continued or made divisible 
and the basis of distribution all fall to be considered by 


the Commission, 


4. The first Finance Commission recommended that the 
rants-in-aid of Rs. 75 lakhs each to Assam and Bihar 
Its. 15 lwkhs to Orissa and Rs, 160 lakhs to West Bengal 
he paid each year in lieu of the assignment of a share of 
the export duty on jute. This Commission have to 
consider whether any change in the 0 suggested by 
ihe firat Commission and accepted by Government is 


necessary. 


5, In Chapter VII of their report the last Commission 
formulated certain principles to govern the payment of 
grants-in-aid to the States which they themselves had 
applied in making their recommendations. This Commis- 
aon Will re-examine these পপ in the light of 
subsequent developments and the changes in the practice 
in other countries and indicate any changes necessary in 


them. 


6. The Commission have to make recommendations 
regarding the States in need of assistance and the sums 
io be prescribed as grants-in-aid of the revenues of such 
States, At present Assam, Mysore, Orissa, Punjab, 
Saurashtra, Travancore-Cochin and West Bengal are in 
receipt of general grants-in-aid as a result of the recom- 
mendations of the Jast Commission. This Commission will 
re-oxanine the financial position of all the States and make 
recommendations to the President regarding the States in 
need of assistance and the sums to be prescribed as grants- 
in-wid of the revenues of such States. A large variety of 
aorriderations may enter into the determination of the 
1018 of the States and these may differ from State to 
Stata. The Commission will also consider the nature of 


the rants-in-aid, such as whether they should be fixed or 
progressive, general or specific, conditional or uncondi- 
tional. 


In addition to the genoral grants-in-aid which some of 
them may be receiving, Bihar, Hyderabad, Madhya Bharat, 
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Patiala and East Punjab States 
Union, Punjab and Rajasthan are in receipt of special 
grants-in-aid for the expansion of primary education. The 
Commission will assess the results achieved by the specific 
grants given to these States. 


7. The net proceeds of the Estate duty on property 
other than on agricultural land is now being provisionally 
distributed among the States in the same way as_ the 
States’ share of the net proceeds of taxes on income other 
than Corporation Tex. In other words, it is being 
distributed by the percentage ratios fixed for the States for 
income-tax except that the Centre does not retain any 
portion of the receipts except those attributable to the 
Part ‘°C’? States. A more permanent basis of distribution 
has to be formulated by law of Parhament. An import- 
ant issue, in this connection, would be whether the duty 
should bo distributed on the basis of percentage ratios, 
whether arrived at on the basis of the percentage ratios 
prescribed for the distribution of income-tax or otherwise, 
or the distribution should be on the basis of assessments, 
the location of the property taxed, the residence of 
assessee, etc. 


8. Central loans have been given to the States for a 
variety of purposes ranging from the construction of big 
11020101100 multi-purpose projects to the construction 
of minor irrigation works, g¢row-more-food schemes, famine 
works, rehabilitation of displaced persons, etc. Some 901 
them have also been given loans to cover budgetary 
deficits. The terms of interests and repayment of these 
loans vary tor different categories of loans. These will be 
Tfeviewed and any changes necessary in the interest of 
Sound finance indicated. 


9, The Finance Commission would welcome the views 
of those who are interested in and have made a etudy of 
these questions. They would be glad if such views could 
٥ embodied in a self-contained memorandum and sent to 
the Secretary, Finance Commission, to reach him on or 
before the 30th November 1956. 


Dated New Dolhi, July 12, 1956. 
হার্ট ররর 
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP 


KNOW ye all men that the partnership in the trade or 
business of Commission Agents and Dealers in iron, steel 
and hardware, وو ا و‎ between the partners Balkishan 
Khandelwal, Gopal Prashad Khandelwal, Brij Lal Khahdel- 
Wal and Shyam Lal Khandelwal under the name and style 
of Khandelwal Tron & Steel Company and carried on at 
229 Maharsi Debendra Road می‎ was dissolved on 
and from 18th day of July, 1956, by mutual consent and 
that hereafter in future the aforesaid business will he 
Carried on by Balkishan Khandelwal alone. 


BALKISHAN DASS KHANDELWAL, 


Partner. রঃ 


Dated the 31st July 1956. 
(638&—1) 
রঃ 


WEST BENGAL POLICE 


APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates for the 
posts of Sub-Inspector of Police جا‎ West Bengal Police. 


1. Quafifications.— 


(i) Citizen of Indim as defined in Part IL of the 
Constitution of India and ordinarily native of or 
domiciled in West Bengal 


(ii) Graduate of any recognised University. 


(iii) Age over 21 years but below 25 years on Ist 
September 1956. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes candidates below 30 years of age on that 
date are also eligible. The maximum age-limit 
may bo relaxed up to 45 “years in favour of 
isplaced persons from akistan. Displaced 
persons belonging to Scheduled Castes or Tribes 
Shall be entitled to a further relaxation by five 
years over 45 years. 


Minimum Physicat Standard 
5’ 4” height, 114 lb. in weight and 31” round the chest 


with @ minimum expansion of ۰ 


Those measuring above should have the following 
corresponding weights, viz. :— 


191 Ib. for 5’ 5”, 127 Ib. for 5’ 6", 132 Ib. for 
5’ 7”, 138 Ib. for 5’ 8” and above. ۱ 


2. Pay.—The post carries a scale of Rs. 150—4—230—§ 
—250 plus usual allowances. 


3. Instructions regarding submission of applicatton.— 
Application in the prescribed form (which is available from 
the office of any Superintendent of Police in West Bengal) 
accompanied with a receipted treasury chalan of Rs. 5 onl 
deposited under the head ‘“XXTII—Police—Fees, Fines ant 
Forfeitures’’ should be submitted to the Superintendent of 
Polloe of the district in West Bengal in whioh the candidate 
is resident or domiciled so as to reach him on or before fhe 
30th August 1956. Candidates residing in Calcutta and in 
Tripura will submit their applications to the Superinten- 
dent of Police, 24-Parganas, and the Superintendent of 
Police, Nadia, respectively. Candidates should make sure 
before depositing tho fee of Rs. 5 that they are eligible in 
all respects as the fee is not refundable. 


_ The recruitment will be made after a written test and 
interview by the Selection Board, the details of which will 
be furnished slong with the application form. Canvassing 
in any form will disqualify a candidate. 


KESHAB CHANDRA GHOSE, M.A., LL.B., intends to 


be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court.’ 


(569-4) 


0000000000 00و0٠‏ مس مس شش ‪ -.س۹.۹١.ص-صءٌ٘ٹفسپسیسوپوجوحوس-سع-و-وح×سووٹبسح----حووووسحووہسصووجص---حہ‏ 


SHRI PRADYOT KUMAR BASU, B.L., intends to be 
enrolled as’ an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 
(570—4) 


I, ABANI BHUSON GHOSAL, LL.B., intend to be 


enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 


(587—4) 


MAHADEBDAS CHATTERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


(588-—4) 


1, SYAMA CHARAN BANERJI, M.A.. LU.B., intend 
to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(619—4) 


DAYA SHANKAR CHATURVEDI, UL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 


(631—4) 


I, MANIK CHANDRA RAY CHOUDHURY, LL.B., 
intend to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 


(632-4) 


312 


س‫ 
শত‏ 


VIJAY SINGH BENGANT, 11.7).১ intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 
(646—4) 


l, ANATH BONDHU PAL, LL.B., intend to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. (74) 


মি sna لحسووسحسرتج دح‎ 


Il, ASWINIKUMAR SIL, LL.B., intend to be enrolled 
as an Advocate af -the High Court, Calcutta. ہہ‎ 


], ARUN KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


(652—4) 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are stated to have been destroyed and an پت‎ ۷ 
for payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himeelf/themselves as 
having a right to them are warned to communicate at once 
with the undersigned سب‎ 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address 
of the applicant. 
Re. 
W.D. 3/56-57 H/5-330668 100 Shri .Tej-— Karan 
(Hindi), Bothra, 46/1 Strand 
Road, Caloutta-7, 
W.D. 4/56-57 H/5-968432 100 Shri Saligram 
(non-Hindi). Pandey, C/o. Sm. 
Brojo Bala Daassi, 
H/0-336281 100 39/2 Ram 10018] 
(Himdi). Sarkar Street, 
Calcutta. 
۳ 068 100 
: (Hindi). 
’ ws, 
H/6-816983 100 
(Hindi). 
> 
W.D. 6/56-57 H/3-826240 100 Shri M. Pandey, 
. (non-Hindi). Directorate of 
Marine Engineer- 
ing Training, New 
Taratala Road, 


Calcutta-27, 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer, 


5 


Reserve’ Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 17th 
July 1966. 


“> 


: NOTES. 


PORTIONS of. the following notes of the Calcutta office 
of issue are.statéd to have been destroyed and an application 
for payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whosd@ names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himeelf/themselves aa 
having a right to them are warned to communicate at once 


with the reigned سب‎ 
Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and addreas 
of the applicant. 
Rs. 

W.D. 1/56-57 B/72-701817, 100 Shri V. N. Pandeya, 
Supervisor, Allaha- 
bad City ,0ط‎ 

_ Allahabad. 
W.D, 2/56-57 H/0-213261 100 Shri Ghans Ram, 


C/o. Shri Kishan 
Lall Parihar, Inside 
Jalori Gate, Jodh- 
pur. 


(non- Hindi). 


a 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


ا 
Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 17th‏ 
duly ۰‏ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr T] 


NOTICE 


TO all whom it may concern it is notified for genera) 
information that the original Indenture of Conveyancs, 
dated 11101) December 1943, between the Trustees for the 
Tmprovement of Calcutta and Sm. Rama Debi, wifo of 
Chakradhar Misra, of Manglabag, Cuttack, and registered 
before the Joint Sub-Registrar of Assurances, Calcutta, in 
Block 1, Volume ¥5, pages 293-295, being No, 3845 for the 
year 1943 of plot No. 13, Sooterkin Street, has been 
missing and not traceable. The said Conveyance has not 
been dealt with by Sm. Rama Debi in any mannor what- 
soever. Any one getting the ssid Conveyance or having 
any clue thereof may kindly communicate the same to 
Hrushikesh Misra of Manglabag, Cuttack-1, the constituted 
Attorney of Rama Debi of Cuttack, to whom the said 
document, if found, may kindly be delivered. 


2. It is further notified that the Power of Attorney, 
dated the 3181 Octuher 1949, executed by 8m. Rama Dehi, 
wife of Shri Chakradhar Misra, of Manglabag, Cuttack, in 
favour of Hare Krishna Misra, son of late Artaran Misra, 
of 63/1 Muirzapore Street, Calcutta, was cancelled, vide 
notification published in ‘‘Hindusthan Standard’, dated 
12th June 1956, and a fresh Power of Attornoy issued in 
favour of her son Shri Hrushikesh Misra. 


HRUSHIKESH MISRA, 
Constituted Attorney of Sm. Rama Dehi. 


Dated, Manglabag, Cuttack, the 2nd August 1956. 
(6371 ¥ 


IN THE MATTER OF INDIAN COMPANIES ACT 
AND 
IN THE MATTER OF 7 SUPPLIES CORPORATION, 
T 


NOTICE is hereby given that a petition for the winding 
up of the abovenamed Company by the High Court 
Calcutta, was on the 13th day of Decamber 1955 presented 
to the said Court by Messrs. G. K. Dutt and S. Tibrewal, 
Joint Liquidators of Messra. Anchor Co., Ltd. (in 
liquidation), a creditor of the said Company, and that the 
sald petition is directed to be heard before the Court on 
the 27th day of August 1956 and any creditor or contri- 
butory of the said Company desirous of opposing an order 
for the winding up of the said Company under the above 
Act should appear at the time of ie ہے یھ‎ by himself 
or by his Attorney or Advocate for that purpose and a copy 
of the petition will be turnished to any creditor or contn- 
butory of the said Company requiring the same, by the 
undersigned, on payment of the prescribed charge for the 
same. 


KHAITAN & CO., 
Attorneys for the petitioners. 
11) Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 


Dated the 918৮ day of July 1956. 


Note.—Rule 58 provides that any person who intends to 
appear on the hearing of the said petition must s@rve on 
or send by post to the abovenamed, notice in writing of hi: 
intention so to do, The notice must state the name and 
address of the এ or, if a firm, the name and address 
of the firm, and must be served, or, if posted, must be sent 
by post in sufficient time to reach the abovenamed not later 
than two clear days before the 27th day of August 1956. 


(639—1) 


4N THE MATTER OF INDIAN COMPANIES ACT 
AND 
IN THE MATTER OF MOD! & CO. PRIVATE LTD. 


NOTICE is hereby given that a meeting of the creditors 
of the above Company will be held“under section 500 of the 
Indian Companies Act, 1956, applicable to creditors’ 
voluntary winding" up,"at Girjapara, Raniganj, tho rogis- 
tered office of the Company on Tuesday, the 4th day of 
September, 1956, ab 3 p.m. to receive full statement of the 
position of the Cdiffpany’s affairs جم مہو‎ with list and 
claims: of reditors and 9৮007791067 ,thg appointment of 
liquidator. نے‎ 

a 


By order of the Board. 
ے 4 بد‎ BENARSHILAI, MODY. Director. 


Dated, Raniganj, the 81st July 1956. 
(640-1) 


Part IT] 


—— soa 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
Vit OF 1913, 


AND OF 
PLUMMER’'S TRANSPORT & CLEARING CO., LTD. (IN 
LIQUIDATION) 
Creditors’ Voluntary Winding Up 
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS 


TAKE notice that a meeting of shareholders of the 
ahovenamed Company will be held at No. 4, Lyons Range, 
Calcutta, on Friday, the 24th day of August 1956, at 11°45 
o'clock im the forenoon to transact the following 
business :— 


Agenda 


(1) To receive and consider a statement of affairs 
concerning the liquidation. 


(2) To receive and consider a report of the Liquidators. 


(9) To receive and consider a statement of receipts and 
disbursements. 


Plummer’s Transport & Clearing Co., Ltd. 
(In Liquidation). 


P. ۲۰۱ 
For Self and Co-Tiquidators. 


Dated 4 Lyons Range, Calcutta, the Ist August 1956. 
(643—-1) 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
Vil OF 1913, 


AND OF 
PLUMMER’S TRANSPORT & CLEARING CO., LTD. (IN 
LIQUIDATION) 
Creditors’ Voluntary Winding up 
NOTICE TO CREDITORS 


TAKE notice that a meeting of creditors of the above- 
named Company will he held at No. 4 Lyons Range, 
Calcutta, on Friday, the 24th day of August 1956, at 11-00 
o'clock in the forenoon to transact the following 
busimess :— 


Agenda 


(1) To appoint a Committee of Inspection under 
section 200C of the Indian Companies Act, 1913. 


(2) To receive and consider a statement of affairs con- 
cerning the liquidation. 


(3) To receive and considor a report of the Liquidators. 


(4) To receive and consider a statement of receipts and 
disbursements, 


(5) To obtain the views of the creditors and, if thought 
fit, their authority to the Liquidators to apply to Court 
for the purpose of obtaining directions concerning preferen- 
tial creditors. 


Plummer’s Transport & Clearing Co., Ltd. 
(In Liquidation). 
P, 11 
For Self and Co-Liquidators. 


Dated 4 Lyons Rango, Calcutta, Ist August 1956. 
644—1) 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1956, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF NORTHERN TRADING CO,, LTD. 
CIN LIQUIDATION) 


Shareholders* Voluntary Winding Up 


FINA! nteeting and dissolution notice is horeby given 
that a General Meeting of the Shareholders of the above 
Company pursuant to section 208K of the Companies Act 
of 1913 (now section §09 of the Companies Act, 1956) will 
he hold at the office ۹8۲ the Liquidator at 18 Netajj,Subhas 
Road, Calcutta, on Saturday, the 5٤ط‎ September 1956, 
at 1 p.m, for the purpose of laying before the meeting the 
account showing how the winding up has been conducted 
and how the property of the Compgny has been disposed 
of and of সাদ পন পা explanation that mag bey givon by 
the Liquidator, 


Dated, Cgleutta, the 27th July 1956. 


ধা. L. «MALHOTRA, 
Hon, Liquidator. 


(645—1) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 195 373 


SS শ্বাস 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1656, 
AND OF 


LAKSHMI AGENTS PRIVATE LIMITED (IN 
LIQUIDATION) 


Notice of appointment of Liquidator 
(Pursuant tq, section 516) 
MEMBERS’ VOLUNTARY WTRDING-UP 


J, 8. ۹. KOTITART of Grosvenor Honse, 21 Old Conrt 
House Street. Calentta, herchy wive notica that T have 
been appointed Liquidator of the ahovenamed Companv by 
a Special Resolution of the Company passed at an Kxtre- 


না (97,৮81 Meeting held on the 27th day of June 


লি. @ KOTHARI. 
Caleutta, 11th July 1956. 


(647—1) 
nt a en a ei سسسسی‎ 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1986, 
AND 
IN THE MATTER OF sg TRADERS PRIVATE, 


AT an Extraordinary General Meeting of ¢ i 

pany duly convened and held at t নিস mens 
the Company on Saturday, the 21s¢ July 1956, at 1 pem. 
it was resolved that tho Company be wound-up voluntarily 
ae a membors voluntary liquidation and that Messrs. B. L 
ou, F.C.A., of Jain & Co., Chartered Accountants, 
3 Fancy ane, Caleutta-1, and. Shri 8. K. Todi of 
32 Baranashi Ghosh Street, Caleutta, be dnd are hereby 
appointed Liquidators for the purpose of such whading-up 
with joint and several powers at a مو‎ of Rs. 750 901). 


0 : 
For Eastern Traders (Private) Limited 
(In Liquidation. ) 
ও. K. TODI, Liquidator. 


اھ 


(6412)... 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956 
AND OF 


LAKSHMI AGENTS PRIVATE LIMITED (IN 
LIQUIDATION) 


Members’ Voluntary Winding-up 
ADVERTISEMENT FOR CREDMTORS 


NOTICE is hereby given that the creditors of the above- 
named Company, which is being wound-up voluntarily, are 
required’on or before the 14th day of Augus@ 1956 to send 
their names and addresses and the particnlars. of their 
debts or claims and the names and -niddregses of their 
Attorneys (if any) to Mr. .8ھ‎ S. Kothari, Chartered 
Accountant, of “Grosvenor House”, 21 Old Court House 
Stroet, Calcutta, the Liquigatgr of the said Company, afd, 
if so required by notice in ting from the Liquidator 
Shall either in person or by their Attorneys, prove their said 
debts or claims at such time as shall be specified in such 
notice, or in default thereof they will be excluded from’ 
the سس مت‎ any distribution made before such debts are 
10700 ۰ 


for Lakshmi Agents Private Limited 
(In Liquidation). 
5. S. KOTHARI, 
Liquidator. 


Grosvenor House, 21 Old Court House Street, 
Calcutta, 12th July 1956. 
(648.1) 


314 41117 CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr IT 


a aaa a a a a 


IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1986, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF EAST INDIA HARDWARE 
TRADING CO, (PRIVATE), LTD. 


Members’ Voluntary Liquidation 


NOTICE is hereby given that an Extraordinary General 


Meeting of the shareholders“ f the East India Hardware’ 


Trading Co. (Privase), Ltd., Calcutta, was hold at 58 CTivo 
Street, Calcutta, the registered office of the Company, on 
Wednesday, the 30th May 1956, at 4-30 p.m. and the 
following special resolution was passed unanimously:— 


‘Resolved that the Company be wound up voluntarily 
and that Mr. P. K. Mukherjee, M.A., B.Com. (Cal.), 
F.C.A., F.R.ES. (Lond.), 3 S. N. Banerjee Road, 
Calcutta, be appointed as Liquidator of the Company 
on a remuneration of Rs. 500 and 5 per cent. on 
the tot#l realisation of assets.” 


For and on behalf of Fast India Hardware 
Trading Co. (Private), 1480. (In Liquidation). 


P, K. MUKHERJI, Liquidator. 


(491—1) 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the doling hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Belvedere have 


‘been extended with effect from the 16th August 1953. The 


revised working hours are specified below:— 


Reading Rooma— 
Week daya (including Saturdays)—9 am. to 8 p.m 
Sundaya and holidays—10 a.m. to’ 6 p.m. 


Leuding Section— 
Week dava (17771111102 Saturaays)—~—10 a.m, to 5 p.m 
Sundays aud holidays—10 a.m. to 1-80 p.m. 

The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, how- 
ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
year :— 

(1) Republic Day, (ii) - রি Day and (iii) 
Mahatma Gandhi’s Birth Day. 

Persons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open tw 
any one residing 0) any part of the Indian Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security in cash is essentiat 


B. 8. KESAVAN, 
Librarian 
Belvedere, Caleutta-27, the 6th March 1964. 


Registered No. 7 


Calriutta 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 


PART V--Acts of the Parliament of India assented to by the President 


and Ordinances promulgated by the President 
COVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Law 


assent 


The following Act of Parliament received the 
hereby 


of the President on the 6th June, 1956, and = is 
published for general information :— 


ACT No. XXVII OF 1956 

THE REPRESENTATION OF THE PEOPLE (SECOND 
AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956 

[6th June, 1956. ] 

An Act further to amend the Representation of the People 


Act, 1951 and to make certuin consequential amend- 
ments in the (rovernment of Part C States Act, 19651. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of 
the Republic of India as follows :— 


1, (7) This Act may be called the Representation 
the People (Second Ameudment) Act, 1956, 


of 


(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central 


(government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
appoint. 
3 of 2. اا٦‎ the long title of the Representution of the 


People Act, 195] (hereafter in this Act referred to as the 
principal Act), the words “and illegal’? shall be omitted. 


3. In section 2 of the principal Act,— 
(a) in sub-section (7),— 
(2) in clause (b), for the words ‘to a primary 


election’, the words and letter ‘the electoral 
college of a scheduled Part C State’ shall be 
substituted ; 


Short 
title and 
com- 
0۰+ 
mont, 


Amend- 
mont of 
long titlo, 


Amoend- 
meant of 
section 2. 


194 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr y 


নি renner سپییی ہب ےے--- .ےس‎ en NT টি 


(it) after clause (b), the following clause shall be * 


inserted, namely :— 
“(bb) ‘chief electoral officer’ means the officer 
appointed under section 138A of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950.” ; 


(az) in clause (0), the words and figures “or section 
124” shall be omitted إ‎ 


(iv) in clause (d), for the words ‘and includes a 
primary election’, the words and letter ‘or in 
the electoral college of a scheduled Part 0 
State’ shall be substituted ; 


(v) for clause (e), the following clause shall be 
substituted, namely :— 

“(e) ‘elector’ in relation to a constituency means a 
person whose name is entered in the 
electoral roll of that constituency 10] the 
time being in force and who is not subject 
to any of the disqualifications mentioned 
in section 16 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1950”; 


(vt) clause (f) shall be omitted; 
(vit) clauses (h) and (1) shall be omitted; 


(vit) clauses (7), (8) and (0) shall be re-lettered ৪৪ 
clauses (/), (2) and (k) respectively and after 
clause (t) as 80 re-lettered, ithe following 
clause shal] be inserted, namely :— 

“() ‘State Government’ in relation to a Part C 
State, means the J.ueutenant-Governor or 
Chief Commissioner thereof ,;’’; 


(9) in sub-section (2), for the words ‘a Council of 
States constituency’, the words ‘an electoral 
college constituency’ shall be inserted; 


(c) in sub-section (3) , for the words ‘to a primary 
election’, the words and letter ‘the electoral 
college of a scheduled Part C State’ shall be 
substituted ; 


(d) sub-sections (5) and (7) shall be omitted and sub- 
section (6) shall be re-numbered as sub-section 


In section 7 of the principal 40১‏ 4۹۰ مت 
en‏ 
section 7, (a) in clause (a), the words “or illegal” shall be‏ 


omitted ; 
(5) at the end of clause (a), the following words shall 
be added, namely :— 


“or the Election Commission has removed the 718. 
qualification ;’’ ; 


43 of 1950, 


Patt Vv 


এ orn I পপ 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 9, 1956 


سیر ہف لت 


(6) in clause (77), the words “to transportation or’’ shall 
be omitted: and 


(0) for clause (c), the following clause shall be substi- 
{uted, namely :--~ 


“(c) if he has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses within the time and in the 
manner required by or under this Act, unless 
three years have elapsed from the date by 
which the account ought to have been lodged 
or the Election Commission has removed the 
disqualification ۰ 


5. in sub-section 


(1),— 
(a) for clause (6), the following clause shall be substi- 
tuted, namely :— 


Act, 


In section & of the principal 


"(b) ۵ disqualification under clause (ھ)‎ 01 that, 
section shall not take effect until the 
expiration of two months from the date on 
which the Edection Commission has decided 
that the account of election expenses has not 
been lodged within the time and in the 
manner required by or under this Act;’’; 


(b) clause (g) shall be omitted. 


6, 
‘Council of States’, the words ‘electoral 
substituted. 


In section 1) of the principal Act, for the worda 
college’ shall be 


7. For Part III of the principal Act, 
Part shall be substituted, namely :— 


the following 


“PART 1 


OF GENERAL ELECTIONS‏ 11710۸7107 ۷ڑ 


12. For the purpose of filling the seats of members of 
the Council of States retiring on the expiration of their 
term of office the President shall, by one or more noti- 
fications published in the Gazette of India on such date or 
dates as may be recommended by the Election Commission, 
call upon the elected members of the Legislative 
Assembly or, as the case may be, the members of the 
electoral college, of each State concerned to elect members 
im accordance with the provisions of this Act and of. the 
rules and orders made thereunder: 


Provided that no notification under this section shall be 
issued more than three months prior to the date on which 
the term of office of the retiring members ig due to expire. 


1965 


০০০ cased 
eee 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 8, 


Amend- 
mont of 
section 10, 


Subatitu- 
tion of 
now Part 
for Part 
111. 


Notifica- 
tion for 
biennial 
election 
to the 
Council of 
States. 


196 


Notifica- 
tion for 
reconsti- 
tution 
ef electo- 
ral ০0119. 
ges for 
certain 
Part C 
Staton. 


Notifica- 
tion for 
general 
election 
to tho 
Houso of 


the People. 


Notifica- 
tion for 
gonoral 
election to 


a Stato Le- 


gislative 
Assembly. 


assembly constituencies in the State to elect 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


পা, سے سو سی ہے‎ চপ 


ھ بر ج 4 দর ope‏ بومسوووےے 


angen 


13. For the purpose of reconstituting the electoral’ 
college for a scheduled Part © State, the President shall, 
by notification published in the (iazette of India, call 2 
al] electoral ie e constituencies in the State 60 elect 
members 11) Rania, فا‎ with the provisions of this Act and 
of the rules and orders made thereunder: 


Provided that every such notification shall be issued at 
the same time as a notification calling upon the _ parlia- 
mentary constituencies in the State to elect members for 
the purpose of constituting a new House of the People is 
issued. 


14. (1) A general election shall be held for the pur- 
pose of constituting a new House of the People on the 
expiration of the duration of the existing House or on its 
dissolution. 


(2) For the said purpose the President shall, by one or 
more notifications published in the Gazette of India on 
such date or dates as may be recommended by the Elettion 
Commission, call upon all parliamentary constituencies to 
elect members in accordance with the provisions of this 
Act and of the rules and orders made thereunder: 


Provided that where a general election 1s held otherwise 
than on the dissolution of the existing House of the People, 
no such notification shall be issued at any time earlier than 


six months prior to the date on which the duration of that 


House would expire under the provisions of clause (2) of 
article 83. 


15. (7) A general election shall be held for the pur- 
pose of constituting a new Legislative Assembly on the 
expiration of the duration of the existing Assembly or on 
its dissolution. 


(2) For the said purpose, the Governor, Rajpramuks, 
Lieutenant-Governor or Chief Commissioner, as the case 
may be, shall, by one or more notifications published in the 
Official Gazette of the State on such date or dates as may 
be recommended by the Election Commission, call upon all 
members in 
accomlance with the provisions of 11115 Act and of the rules 
and orders made thereunder: 


Provided that where a general election is held otherwise 
than on the dissolution of the existing Legislative 
Assembly, no such notification shall be issued at any time 
earlier than six months prior to the date on which the 
duration of that Assembly would expire under the provi- 
sions of clause (J) of article 172 or under the provisions of 
section 6 of the Government of Part C States Act, 1951, as 
the case may be. 


[Parr y 


দালান: PN AO چا‎ oa rae 
nen ee, oe ee ee 


49 of 198! 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 0 


16. For the purpose of filling the seats of members of 
the Legislative Council of a State retiring on the expiration 
of their term of office, the Governor or Rajpramukh, ag the 
‘ase may be, shall, by one or more notifications published in 
the Official Gazette of the State on such date or dates as 
may be recommended by the Election Commission, call upon 
the members of the Legislative Assembly of the State and all 
the council constituencies concerned to elect members in 
accordance with the provisions of thig Act and of the rules and 
orders made thereunder : 


Provided that no notification under this section shall be 
issued more than three mouths prior to the date on which the 
terin of 01106 of the retiring members is due to expire.’’, 


8, In section 19 of the principal Act, for the words 8 
Council of States constituency’, the words ‘‘an electoral 
college constituency’’ shall be substituted. 


9. For sections 20 and 21 of the principal Act, the 
following sections shall be substituted, namely سے ؛‎ 


' 20. Subject to the superintendence, direction and contro! 
of the Election Commission, the chief electora] officer of each 
State shall supervise the conduct of all election in the State 
under this Act. 


21. Vor every constituency, for every election to fil] a 
seat or seats in the Council of States and for every election 
by the members of the Legislative Assembly of a Staie to fill 
a seat or 8৪818 in the Legislative Council of the State, the 
Election Commission shall, in consultation with the Govern- 
ment of the State, designate or nominate a returning officer 
who shall be an officer of Government: 

Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent the 
Election Commission from designating or nominating the 
same person to be the returning officer for more than one 
constituency.’’. 


10. In section 22 of the principal Act, in the proviso to 

sub-section (2), the words 460 the acceptance of a nomination 

aper or’ and the words “‘or to the counting of votea’’ shall 
e omitted. 


11. In section 26 of the principal Act, after the words, 
“polling areas’, the words 01 groups of voters’? shall be 
inserted. 


12, In section 26 of the principal Act, to sub-section. (1), 
the following further proviso shall he added, namely :— 


‘Provided further that nothing in this sub-section shall 
prevent the returning officer from appointing the 
same person to be the presiding officer for more than 
one polling station in the same premises.’’, 


197 


Ae 
چیہیوہ‎ 


Notification 
for biennial 
oloction to 
a State 
Legislative 
Council, 


Amond- 
ment of 
section 19, 


Substitu- 
tion of 
now 200. 
tions for 
seotions 
20 and 21, 


General 
duties of 
chief 
electo- 
ral offi- 
cern. 


Returnng 
officers. 


Arr ond- 
ment of 


wection, 
Zu, 


Amond- 
mont 

of section 
Zo. 
Amoend- 
ment of 
section 26, 


198 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr ۲ 
পপ লিউ পু পপ সাপ 


Amend. 13, In section 29 of the principal Act, in sub-section (4), 
ار مو‎ the words and bracketa ‘(other than a primary clection)’ shall 
"be omitted. 


For section 30 of the principal Act, the following‏ ,14 سرت 
ion 0 ٠ : ee‏ 

now sec. Section shall be substituted, namely : 

tion for 

section 30, 

Appoint- 380. As soon as the notification calling upon «a conatt- 
ment tuency to elect a member or members is issued, the Election 
ofdates Commission shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
for nomi- appoini—« 

nations, ppo 

ete. 


(a) the last date for making nominations, which shall 
be the tenth day after the date 01 publication of 
the first-mentioned notification or, if that day is a 
public holiday, the next succeeding day which 8 
not a public holiday; 


(b) the date for the scrutiny of nominations, which shall 
be the third day after the last date for making 
nominations or, ‘if that day is a public holiday, 
the next succeeding day which is not a public 
holiday ; 


(c) the lust date for the withdrawal of candidatures, 
which shall he the third day after the date for the 
scrutiny of nominations or, if that day is a public 
holiday, the next succeeding day which is not a 

. public holiday ; 


)2( the date or dates on which a poll shall, if necessary, 
he taken, which or the first of which shall be a 
date not earlier than the twentieth day after the 
last date for the withdrawal of candidatures. and 


(e) the date before which the election shall be completed. 


Eeplanation.—In this section, ‘public holiday’? means 
any day which is a public holiday for the purposes of section 
26 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, or any day which 26 of 1881. 
has been notified by the State Government to be a holiday for 
the Government offices in the State.’’, 


Amenda- 15. In section 32 of the principal Act,— 

ment of ۱ 

(a) the wordg “‘in any constituency” shall be omitted;‏ ای" 
৮ and‏ 


(6) after the words ‘“‘this Act’’, the words, letter and 
figures ہہ“‎ under the provisions of the Covern- 
ment of Part C States Act, 1951, as the case may 
be’’ shal] be added. 


15 nT ۲ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


16. For section 33 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


33. (1) On or before the date appointed under clause 
(a) of section 30 each candidate shall, either in person or by 
his proposer, between the hours of eleven o’clock in the fore- 
noon and three o’clock in the afternoon deliver to the return- 
ing officer at the place specified in this behalf in the notice 
issued under section 31 ٠ nomination paper completed in the 
prescribed form and signed by the candidate and by an elector 
of the constituency as proposer. 


(2) In a constituency where any seat 18 reserved, a candi- 
date shall not be deemed to be qualified to be chosen to fill 
that seat unless lis nomination paper contains a declaration 
by him specifying the particular caste or tribe of which he 
is a member and the area in relation to which that caste or 
tribe is a Scheduled Caste or, 98 the case may be, a Scheduled 
Tribe of the State. 


(3) Where the candidate 1s a person who, having held 
any office referred to in clause (f) of section 7, has been 
dismissed and a period of five years has not elapsed since the 
dismissal, such person shall not be deemed to be duly nomi- 
nated as a candidate unless his nomination paper is accom- 
panied by a certificate issued in the prescribed manner by 
the Election Commission to the effect that he has not been 
dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the State. 


(4) On the presentation of a nomination paper, the return- 
ing officer shal] satisfy himself that the names and electoral 
roll numbers of the candidate and his proposer as entered 
in the nomination paper are the same as those entered in the 
electoral rolls: 


Provided that the returmmg officer shal) permit any 
clerical] or technical error in the nomination paper in regard 
to the said names or numbers to be corrected in order to 
bring them into conformity with the corresponding entries in 
the electoral rolls; and where necessary, direct that any 
ا‎ or printing error in the said entries shall be over- 
ooked. 


(6) Where the candidate is an elector of a different con- 
stituency, a copy of the electoral roll of that constituency or 
of the relevant part thereof or a certified copy of the relevant 
entries in such rol] shall, unless it has been filed along with 
the nomination paper, be produced before the returning 
officer at the time of scrutiny. 


(6) Nothing in this section shall prevent any candidate 
from being nominated by more than one nomination paper 
for election in the same constituency.’’. 


199 


Substitu- 
tion of 
now 80০0. 
tion for 
soction 33, 


Presenta- 
tion of 
nomina- 
tion paper 
and re- 
quire- 
monts for 
৪ valid 
nomina- 
tion, 


200 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr y 


ie EE SD I a eg, 


Amond- 17, In section 34 of the principal Act, for sub-section 


meant of 1 - 0۶ ‘ : 7 
اوت‎ BE. (7), the following sub-section shall be substituted , pamely: 


(1) A candidate shall not be deemed to be duly nom1- 
nated for election from a constituency unless he deposits or 
causes to be deposited— 


(a) in the case of an election from a parliamentary 
constituency, a sum of five hundred rupees or 
where the candidate is a member of a Scheduled 
Caste or Scheduled Trihe, a sum of two hundred 
and fifty rupees; 


(6) in the case of un election from an assembly or 
council constituency, a sum of two hundred and 
fifty rupees or where the candidate is 0, member 
of a Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, a sum 
of one hundred and twenty-five rupees; and 


(c) in the case of an election from an electoral college 
constituency, a sum of fifty rupees: 


Provided that where a candidate has been nomniated 
by more than one nomination paper for election 
in the same constituency, not more than one 
deposit shall be required of him under this sub- 
section.’’. 


Amend- 18, In section 35 of the principal Act, for the words ‘the 

mentof persons who have subscribed the nomination paper, as pro- 

section 35. noger and seconder’, the words ‘the proposer’ shall be 
substituted. 


Amond- - 1% In section 36 of the principal Act,— 


mont of 


section 96, (a) in sub-section (J), the words ‘‘and one seconder’”’ 


shall be omitted ; 
(9) in sub-section (2),— 


(7) for the word ‘refuse’, the word ‘reject’ shall be 
substituted; and 


(12) for clauses (a) to (e), the following clauses shall 
be substituted, namely :— 


‘(a) that the candidate either is not qualified or is 
disqualified for being chosen to fill the seat 
ا‎ any of the following provisions that may 
be applicable, namely :— 


articles 84, 102, 173 and 191, 


Part IT of this Act, and sections 7 and 11701 the 


Government of Part C States Act, 1951, 49 of 
or 1951. 


(b) that there has been a failure to comply with any 
of the provisions of section 38 or section 34; 
or 


(c) that the signature of the candidate or the pro- 
poser on the nomination paper is not - 
genuine,” ; 


Part V] 11777 CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 201 


me TE PT 7 লুল 


(¢) in sub-section (3),— 


(1) for the words, brackets and letters ‘‘clause (c), 
eluuse (d) or clause (e)”, the words, brackets 
and letters “clause (b) or clause (c)’’ shall he 
substituted; and 


(6) for the word ‘refusal’, the word ‘rejection’ shall 
be substituted ; 


(0) in sub-section (4), the word ‘‘technical’’ shall be 
omitted ; 


(e) for sub-section (7), the following sub-sections shall 
be substituted, namely; — 


“(7) For the purposes of this section, a certified copy 
of an entry in the electoral roll for the time 
being in force of a constituency shall be con- 
clusive evidence of the fact that the person 
referred to in that entry is an elector for that 
constituency, unless it is proved that he 18 sub- 
ject to a disqualification mentioned im section 16 

43 of of the Representation of the People Act, 1950. 
1950, 

(8) Immediately after al] the nomination papers have 
been scrutinized and decisions accepting or 
rejecting the same have been recorded, the 
returning officer shall prepare a list of validly 
nominated candidates, that is to say, candidates 
Whose nominations have been found valid, and 
aflix it to his notice Loard.’’. 


20, In section 37 of the principa] Act, in sub-section (Z), stabs রর 
the word ‘‘seconder’’ and the proviso shall be omitted. section 37. 


217 Jor section 38 of the principal Act, the following substitu. 
section shall be substituted, namely :— tion of 
new 1500, 
tion for 

section 38, 


“38. (1) Immediately after the expiry of the period pyblica. 
within which candidutures may be withdrawn under sub- tion of list 
section Y) of section 37, the returning officer shall prepare of وت‎ 
and publish in such form and manner as may be prescribed یر‎ 
a list of contesting candidates, that is to say, candidates who 
were included in the list of validly nominated candidates and 
who have not withdrawn their candidature within the said 
period. 


(2) The said list shall contain the names in alphabetical 
order and the addresses of the contesting candidates as given 
in the nomination papers together with such other particulars 
us 11087 be preseribed.’’, 


202 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 9) 1956 77 


Substi- 22. For section 39 of the principal Act, the following 


tution of 4c রি 
Lew aso. 88011981 shall be substituted, namely :— 


tion for 
section ۰ 


নি “39. (7) As soon us the notification calling upon the 

candidates @lected members or the members of the Legislative Assembly 

at other of a State or the members of the electoral] college of a Part 

elections. (/ State to elect a member or members is issued, the Election 
Commission shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
appoint 


(a) the last date for making nominatious, which shall 
be the tenth day aiter the date of publication of 
the first-mentioned notification or, if that day is 
a public holiday, the next succeeding day which 
is not a public holiday ; 


(b) the date for the scrutiny of nominations, which shall 
be the second day after the last date for making 
nominations or, if that day is a public holiday, 
the next succeeding day which is not a public 
holiday ; 


(c) that last date for the withdrawal of candidatures, 
which shall be the third day after the date for the 
scrutiny of nominations or, if that day is a public 
holiday, the next succeeding day which is not a 
public holiday; 


(d) the date or dates on which a poll shall, if necessary, 
be taken, which or the first of which shall be a 
date not earlier than the seventh day after the 

last date for the withdrawal of candidatures; and‏ ہہ 


(6) the date before which the election shall be com- 
pleted. 


Erplanation.—In this section, ‘“‘public holiday’? has the 
same meaning as in section 380. 


(2) The provisions of sections 31 to 88, excluding sub- 
sections (৫) and (6) of section 33 and section 34, shall apply 
in relation to any such election as they apply in relation to 
an election in any constituency : 


Provided that— 


(a) any references in the said provisions to the electoral‏ ۔ 
roll of the constituency shall, unless the context‏ 
othcrwise requires, he construed, in the case of an‏ 
election by the members or the elected members of‏ 
the Legislative Assembly of the State, as referen-‏ 
ces to the list of members or elected members, as‏ 
the case may be, of that Assembly maintained‏ 
under sub-section (1) of section 152, and in the‏ 
case of an election by the members of the electoral‏ 
college of a Part C State, as references to the 81‏ 
of members of such electoral college maintained‏ 
under sub-section (2) of that section:‏ 


Part V] THK CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9) 0 203 


(উস ssn 0 SD geo GPITS SG sel nd Eg gE el POP SPEIRS i edie Seon PPE PRR eet rd 


(6b) any references in the said provisions to section 30 
shal] be construed as references to sub-section (7) 
of this section: and 


(৫) at the {ime of presenting the nomination paper, the 
returning officer may require the person present- 
ing the same to produce either a copy of the 
electoral roll, or part of the electoral roll, in 
which {he name of the candidate 18 meluded or a 


certified copy of the relevant entries in such 
roll.’’, 


23. Jor section 40 of the principal Act, the following Substitu. 


section shall be substituted, namely :— aie 
0 7 


tion for 
seotion 40, 


“40, A candidate at an election may appoint in the lection 
prescribed manner uny one person other than himself to he 022 
his election agent and when any such appointment 1s made, 
notice of the appointment shall be given in the prescribed 
manuer to the returning officer.’’. 


24. In section 42 of the principal Act,— Amend. 
ment of 


(a) in sub-section (7), the words ‘‘whether he he the section 42. 
candidate himself or 17067 shall be omitted; and 


(b) for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be 
substituted, namely :— 


(2) In the event of such a revocation or of the death 
of an election agent whether that event occurs 
before or during the election, or after the elec- 
tion but before the aecount of the candidate’s 
election expenses has been lodged in accordance 
with the provisions of section 78, the candidate 
nay appoint in the prescribed manner another 
person to be his election agent and when such 
Xppointment is made notite of the appointment 
shal] be given in the prescribed manner to the 
returning officer,’”’. 


25. Sections 43 and 44 of the principal Act shall be Omission 


omitted. of sections 
43 and 44. 


9, Vor section 44 of the principal Act, the following Substitu- 


section shall be substituted, namely سے ؛‎ tion of 
new 80৭). 
tion for 
soction 45. 


“45, An election ageut may perform such functions in Funotions 
connection with the election as are authorised by or under °F lection 
۱ “a! ৪১. * agents. 

this Act to be performed by an election agent. 


204 THE CALCUTTA GAZHETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 = [Parr V 


পপি 
: : | ? : . : : 4 r ro 
و‎ 27. Vor section 46 of the principal Act, the following 
s : ‘ 5 | A ক یں‎ 
اض‎ ection shall he substituted, namely: 
tion for 


section 46, 


A contesting candidate or his election agent may‏ .46“ ک0 

appoint in the prescribed manner such number of agents and‏ مات 

agente. relief agents as may be prescribed to act as polling agents 
of such candidate at each polling station provided under 
section 26 or at the place fixed under sub-section (1) of 
section 29 for the poll.’’. 

Substitu- 28. For section 47 of the principal Act, the following 

hr arte section shall be substituted, namely :— 

section 47. 

in ory “47. A contesting candidate or his eleetion agent may 

counting @Ppoint in. the prescribed manner one or more persons, but 

agents, not exceeding such number as may be prescribed, to be pre- 
sent as his counting agent or agents at the counting of votes, 
and when any ae appointment is made notice of the 
appointment shall be given in the prescribed manner to the 
returning officer.’’ 

Amend: 29. In section 52 of the principal Act,— 

mont of 3 : 

section 2۰ 


(a) for the words ‘‘If a candidate who has been duly 
nominated under this Act dies after the date fixed 
for the scrutiny of nominations and a report of 
his death is received by the Returning Officer’, 
the words ‘‘If a contesting candidate dies and a 
سے‎ of his death is received’’ shall be substi- 
tuted ; 


(b) for the first proviso, the following proviso shall be 
rubstituted, namely :— 


“Provided that no further nomination shall be neces- 
sary in the case of a person who was a contest- 
ing candidate at the time of the countermand- 
ing of the poll:’’; and 


(c).in the second proviso, for the words, brackets and 
figures ‘‘under sub-section (J) of section 37 given 
a notice of withdrawal of his candidature’, the 
words, brackets, figures and letter ‘“‘given a notice 
of withdrawal of his candidature under sub- 
section (1) of section 37 or a notice of retirement 
from the contest under sub-section (2) of section 


55A”’ shall be substituted. 


Fart ৮1 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTH, ATGUST 9, 1956 205 


করা নর নিউ পিউ ০০৮‏ ےا 


বাল সপন রাজাকাররা 


30, In section 53 of the principal Act,— Amond- 
mont of 
section 53, 


(a) for sub-section (Z), the following sub-section shall be 
substituted, namely ;— 


“(7) 11 the number of contesting candidates is more 


than the number of seats to be filled, a poll shall 
be taken.’’; and 


(b) in sub-section (3),— 


($) for the words ‘“‘appropriate authority’? wherever 
they occur, the words ‘Election Commission’’ 
shall be substituted ; 


(11) the words “‘hefore such date as may be appointed 
in this behalf by the Election Commission and 


কি in the notificaiton’’ shall be omitted; 
an 


(121) 11) the proviso, for the words ‘‘until such date as 
the Election Commission may specify in this 
behalt’’ the words “until it is satisfied that if 
called upon again, there will be no such failure 
on the part of the constituency or such members’”’ 
shal] be substituted. 


31. In section 54 of the principal Act,— 


Amend. 
mont of 
section 64. 
(a)for the words ‘‘number of candidates’? wherever they 


occur, the words ‘‘number of contesting candi- 
dutes’’ shall be substituted ; 


(b) in sub-section (4),— 


(1) for the words, brackets and figures “the procedure 
laid down in sub-section (Z) of section 53 shall 
be followed’’, the words ‘‘a poll shall be taken’’ 
shall be substituted; and 


(71) in the /llustration, 101 the words ‘‘six candidates’’, 
the words ‘‘six contesting candidates’ shall be 
substituted ; 


(৫) in sub-section (3),— 


(i) for the words “appropriate authority’ wherever 
they occur, the words ‘Election Commission’’ 
shall be substituted ; 


(zi) the words “‘before such date as may be appointed 
in this behalf by the Election Commission and 
specified in the notification’ shall be omitted; 
and 


(iz) in the proviso, for the words ‘‘until such date as 
the Election Commission may specify in this 
behalf”? the words ‘‘until it is satisfied that if 
called upon again, there will be no such 18110] 
on the part of the constituency or such members’’ 
shall be substituted; and a 


(d) sub-section (6) shall be omitted. 


206 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Part V 


লিলি Seas ee ale rca ea a ee aD een 

Amend- 82. In section 55 of the principal Act. the words, letter 

ae and figures ‘‘or under the Government of Part C States Act, 
‘ ٴ‎ 1۱951. as the case may be’’ shall be added at the end, 


49 of 19651, 


Insertion 33. After section 56 of the principal Act, the following 
of new section shall be inserted in Chapter II], namely :—- 

section ‘ 

after 

section 55 

in Chapter 

II. 

Rotirement ‘5A. (J) The provisions of this section shall apply im 
from relation to any election in a parliamentary or assembly consti- 
contest = tuency. 

at oloctions 

in parlia ۱ ۱ 

mentary (2) A contesting candidate may retire from the contest by 
and a notice in the prescribed form which shall be delivered to 


assembly the returning officer between the hours of eleven o'clock in 
the forenoon und three o’clock in the afternoon of any day 
not later than ten days prior to the date or the first of the 
dates fixed for the poll under clause (d) of section 30 either 
by such candidate in person or by an agent authorised in this 
hehalf in writing by such candidate. 


(3) No person who has given a notice of retirement under 
sub-section (2) shall be allowed to cancel the notice. 


(4) The returning officer shall, upon receiving a notice of 
retirement under sub-section (2), Cause a copy thereof to be 
affixed to his notice board and also to be سا‎ in such 
Inanner us may he prescribed. 


Any person who has given a notice of retirement‏ رق 
under sub-section (2) shall thereafter be deemed not to be a‏ 
contesting candidate for the purposes of section 62.‏ 


(6) Where by reason of any retirement from the contest 
under this section, the number of remaining contesting candi- 
dates becomes equal to the number of seats ما‎ be filled, the 
returning officer shall forthwith declare all such candidates 
tu 5 duly elected to fill those seats and countermand the 
poll. 


(7) Where by reason of any retirement from the contest 
at an election to which the provisions of section 64 apply, the 
number of remaining contesting candidates qualified to be 
chosen to fill the reserved seats becomes equal to the number 
of such seats, the returning officer shall forthwith declare all 
those candidates to be duly elected to fill those seats and 
countermand the poll in so far as it relates to elections for 
filling those seats and the procedure laid down in section 53 
shall be followed for filling the remaining seat or seats, if 
any.” 


Amond- 34. In section 56 of the principal Act, for the words 
ment ve “appropriate authority’, the words ‘‘Election Commission”’ 
section 50, 81181] be substituted. 


pant V] 11115 CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 0 


35. For section 58 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


“58. (1) If at any election, any ballot box used at a 
polling station or at a place fixed for the poll 1s unlawfully 
taken out of the custody of the presiding officer or the 
returning officer, or is nny way tampered with, or is acci- 
dentally or intentionally destroyed, lost or damaged, and the 
returning officer is satisfied that in consequence thereof the 
result of the pol] at that polling station or place cannot be 
ascertained, he shall— 


(a) declare the polling at that polling station or place 
' جا‎ be void; 


(9) report the matter forthwith to the Election Com- 
mission and to the appropriate authority ; 

(c) with the previous approval of the Klection Com- 
mission, appoint a day, and fix the hours for taking 
a fresh poll at the polling station or place; and 


(৫) notify the day so appointed and the hours so fixed 


by him in such manner ag the Election Commission 
may direct. 


(2) The provisions of this Act and of any rules or orders 
made thereunder shall apply to every such fresh poll as they 
apply to the original poll.’’. 


36, 


(a) for the word ‘‘supervision’’, the words ‘‘supervision 
and direction”’ shall be substituted; and 


In section 64 of the principal Act,— 


(6) for the words “counting agent’, the words ‘‘count- 
ing agents’’ shall be substituted, 


37. In Chapter V of Part V of the principal Act, after 
section 67, the following section shal] be inserted, namely :— 


“67A. For the purposes of this Act, the date on which 
a candidate 1s declared by the returning officer under the 
provisions of section 53, section 54, section 55A or section 66, 
to be elected to a House of Parliament or of the Legislature 
of a State or to the electoral college of a scheduled Part C 
State shal] be the date of election of that candidate.’’, 


38. 


(2) in sub-section (2), for the words ‘“‘within ten days 
from the date of publication in the Gazette of 
India of the declarations that he has been ৪০ chosen 
or, 1f such publications have been made on 
different dates, within ten days from the later of 
such dates, intimate’, the words ‘‘within ten days 


In section 68 of the principal Act,— 


2()7 


Substi- 
tion of 

new 130. 
tion for the 
section ۰ 


F¥sh poll 
in the ease 
of destruc- 
tion, 900.) 
of ballot 
boxes. 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 64. 


Insertion 
of new 
section 


614. 


Date of 
election 
of candi- 
date. 


Amend. 
ment of 
soction $8. 


208 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


{Part V 


পাঠা 


Amend- 
ment of 


section 69. 


Amend. 
ment of 


section ۰ 


Substitu - 
tion of 
new ۰ 
tions for 
gections 
71 to 75. 


Publi- 
cation of 
results of 
elections 
to the 
Council 
of States 
and of 
names of 
persons 


nominated 


by the 
President. 


Publica- 
tion of 
results of 
01606190183 
for the 
reconsti- 
tution of 
electoral 
colleges 


for certain 


Part C 
States. 


from the date, or the later of the dates, on which 
he is so chosen, intimate’’ shall be substituted ; 
and 


(4) the following sub-section shall be added at the end, 
namely سس ؛‎ 


For the purposes of this section and of section 69,‏ (ھ2)'“' 
the date on which a person is chosen to he a‏ 
member of either House of Parliament shall be‏ 
in the case of an elected member, the date of‏ 
his election and in the case of a nominuted‏ 
member, the date of first publbecation in the‏ 
Gazette of India of his nomination.’’.‏ 


39. In section 69 of the principal Act,— 


(৫) in sub-section (J), for the words ‘‘on the publication 
in the (78266 of India of the declaration that he 
has been so chosen’’, the words ‘‘on the date on 
which he 18 so chosen”? shal] be substituted; and 


(b) in sub-section (2), for the words ‘‘on the publication 
in the Gazette of India of the declaration that he 
has been so chosen’’, the words “on the date on 
which he 1s so chosen’”’ shall be substituted. 


40. In section 70 of the principal Act, after the words 
“all but one of the seats’, the words “‘by writing under his 
hand addressed to the Speaker or Chairman, دہ‎ the case may 
be, or to such other authority or officer as may be prescribed’’ 
shall be inserted. 


41. For sections 71 to 75 of the principal Act, the follow- 
ing sections shall be substituted, namely :— 


“71, After the elections held in any year in pursuance 
of the notifications issued under section 12, there shal] be 
notified by the appropriate authority in the Official (Gazette 
the names of members elected by the elected members of the 
Legislative Assemblies of the States and by the members 
of the electoral colleges for the various Part C States at the 
said elections together with the names of any persons nomi- 
nated by the President to the Council of States under sub- 
clause (a) of clause (1) of article 80 or under any other pro- 
۲۰ 

72. After the elections held in pursuance of the notifica- 
tion issued under section 18 for the reconstitution of the 
electoral college for a Scheduled Part C State, there shall be 
notified by the appropriate authority in the Official Gazette as 
soon as may be after the date or the last of the dates fixed 
for the completion of the said elections, the names of the 
persons elected for the various electoral college constituencies 
at the said elections. 


Par? ٢۲) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


73. Where a general election 1s held for the purpose of 


‘constituting a new House of the People or a new State Legis- 


lative Assembly, there shal] be notified by the appropriate 
authority in the Official Gazette, us soon as may be after the 
date originally fixed for the completion of the election under 
clause (e) of section 30, the names of the members elected 
for the various constituencies by that date together with the 
names of persons, if any, nominated by the President, Gover- 
nor or Rajpramukh, to that House or Assembly, as the case 
may be; and upon the issue of such notification that House 
or Assembly shall be deemed to be duly constituted : 


Provided that the issue of such notification shal] not be 
deemed— 


(a) to preclude the completion of the election in any 
parliamentary or any assembly constituency or 
constituencies for which time has been extended 
under the provisions of section 153; or 


(b) to affect the duration of the House of the People or 
the State Legislative Assembly, if any, function- 
ing immediately before the issue of the said 
notification. 


74. After the elections held in any year in pursuance of 
the notifications issued under section 16, there shall be noti- 
fied by the appropriate authority in the Official Gazette the 
names of the members elected tor the various Council con- 
stituencies and by the members of the Legislative Assembly of 
the State at the said elections together with the names of any 
persons nominated by the Governor or Rajpramukh, as the 
case may be, under sub-clause (6) of clause (3) of article 111. 


42. For sections 76, 77 and 78 of the principal Act, the 
following sections shall be substituted, namely سے‎ 


“76. This Chapter shall apply only to elections to the 
سان‎ of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of a 
tate, 


11. (7) Kvery candidate at an election shall, either by 
himself or by his election agent, keep a separate and correct 
account of all expenditure in connection with the election 
incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent 
between the date of publication of the notification calling 
the election and the date of declaration of the result thereof, 
both dates inclusive. 


(4) The account shall contain such particulars, مد‎ may 
be prescribed, 


(3) The total of the said expenditure 81191] not exceed such 
amount as may be prescribed. 


209 


Publication 
of results 
of general 
elections 
to the 
House 

of the 
Peopla 
and the 
Stato 
Legislative 
Axssom - 
blivs and 
of names 
of persons 
nominated 
thereto. 


Publica- 
tion of 
results of 
wloctions 
to the 
State 
Legislative 
Councils 
end of 
names of 
persons 
nominated 
14) such 
Councils. 


Substitu- 
tion of 
new sec- 
tions for 
sections 
76, 77 and 
78, 


Applica- 
tion of 
Chapter. 


Account of 
election 


maximum 
thereof. 


210 


Lodging 
of account 
with the 
Roturning 
Officer, 


Amend- 
mont of 
acction 79. 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 81. 


Substi- 
tution of 
new 80۰ 
tion for 
aeetion 82, 


Parties to 
the peti- 
tion. 


8 ۰ 
tion of 
now sec- 
tion for 
section 83. 


Contonts of 
petition. 


1 as তরকারী, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 6 


within thirty days from the date of election of the returned 
Candidate or, if there are mow than one returned candi- 
date at the election and the dates of their election are 
different, the later of those two dates, lodge with the returning 
officer an account of his election expenses which shall be a 
true: copy of the account kept by him or by his election agent 
under section 77.’’. 


43. In section 79 of the principal Act, clause (a) shall be 
omitted. 


44, In section 81 of the principal Act, in sub-section 
(1) ,— 


(a) for the words, brackets and figures ‘‘sub-sections (J) 
and (2)”, the word, brackets and figure ‘‘sub- 
section (1)? shall be substituted; and 


(6) for the words and figures ‘‘in such form and within 
such time but not earlier than the date of publi- 
cation of the name or names of the returned candi- 
date or candidates at such election under section 
67, as may be prescribed’, the words ‘‘within 
forty-five days from, but not earlier than, the date 
of election of the returned candidate, or if there 
are more than one returned candidate at the elec- 
tion and the dates of their election are different, 
the later of those two dates’’ shall be substituted. 


_ 48. For section 82 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


“82. & petitioner shajl join as respondents to his 
petition— 


(a) where the petitioner, in addition to claiming a 
declaration that the election of all or any of the 
returned candidates is void, claims a further 
declaration that he himself or any other candidate 
has been duly elected, all the contesting candi- 
dates other than the petitioner, and where no 
such further deClaration is claimed, all the 
returned candidates; and 


(6) any other candidate against whom allegations of any 
corrupt practice are made in the petition.’’. 


46. For section 838 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


83, (2) An election petition— 


(৫) shall contain a concise statement of the material 
facts on which the petitioner relies; 


78. Every oputesting candidate at ‘an election shall, ۔‎ 


{Parr V 


Part V] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


211 


meee 


5 ef 1908. 


(6) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt prac- 
tice that the petitioner alleges, including as full 
a statement as possible of the names of the parties 
alleged to have committed such corrupt practice 


and the date and place of the commission of each 
such practice; and 


(c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the 
manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 
1908, for the verification of pleadings. 


(2) Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also 


be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner 
as the petition.’’. 


47. For section 84 of the principal Act, the following 
section shal] be substituted, namely : سے‎ 


‘84. <A petitioner may, in addition to claiming a decla- 
ration that the election of all or any of the returned candi- 
dates is void, claim a further declaration that he himself 
or any other candidate has been duly elected.”’. 


48. For section 85 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


“85, If the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or 
section 117 have not been complied with, the Election Com- 
mission shal) dismiss the petition: 


Provided that the petition shall not be dismissed without 
giving the petition an opportunity of being heard.”’. 


49. For section 86 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


86. (1) 11 the petition is not dismissed under section 
85, the Klection Commission shal] cause a copy thereof to 
be published mm the Official Gazette and a copy to be served 
by post on each respondent, and shall then refer the petition 
to an Election Tribunal for trial. 


62) For the purpose of constituting such Tribunals, the 
Election Commission shall obtain from the High Court of 
each State (other than Jammu and Kashmir) a list of persons 
who are district judges in the State and are in the opinion 
of the High Court fit to be appointed as members of Election 
Tribunals and shall maintain the list by making such altera- 


re therein as the High Court may, from time to time, 
16০৮. 


Eeplanation.—In this sub-section, the expression ‘‘district 
judge’’ includes judge of a city civil court, additional district 


judge, jont district judge and chief judge of a small cause 
court. 


Subatitu- 
tion of 
new 1860. 
tion fur 
section 84, 


Relief that 


petitioner. 


Substitue 
tion of 


petition. 


Substitu- 
tion of 
new 860. 
tion for 
section 86, 


Appoint- 
ment of 
Election 
Tribunal. 


Substitu- 
tion of 
DEW ৪০০. 
tion for 


section 89, 


Power of 
Election 
Commis- 
Bion to 
withdraw 


and trans- 


fer peti- 
tions. 


Amend- 
ment of 


section 90, 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 8 1956 


[Parr y 


পা পা 


(3) Every Tribunal shall consist of a single member , 


selected by the Ulection Commission from any of the lists 
maintained by it under sub-section (2) : 


Provided that where the petition is in respect of au 
election to the Legislutive Assembly or Legislative Council 
of a State, no person who is a district judge in another 
State shall be ا‎ for appointment as a member of the 
Tribunal except with the consent of the (fovernment of that 


other State: 


Provided further that if the Klection Commission con- 
siders it expedient so to do, it may appoint a person who 
has been & judge of a High Court as the member of a 


Tribunal. 


(4) If for any reason a vacancy occurs in the office of 
member of a Tribunal, the Election Commission shall, as 
soon ag practicable, appoint a person to fill the vacancy in 
accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section; and 
upon his joining the ا‎ , the trial of the petition shall 
be continued as if he had been on the Tribunal froin the 


beginning : 


Provided that the Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, recall 
and re-examine any of the witnesses already examined.”. 


50. For section 89 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


‘89, The Election Commission may at any stage after 
notice to parties and, for reasons to be recorded, withdraw 
any petition pending before a Tribunal and transfer it for 
trial to another Tribunal constituted in accordance with the 
provisions of section 86; and upon such transfer, that T'ri- 
bunal shall proceed with the trial from the stage at which 


it was withdrawn: 


Provided that (۸ may, if 1¢ thinks fit, recall and re-examine 
any of the witnesses already examined.’’, 


جھے۔ 


51, In section 90 of the principal Act,— 


(a) sub-section (J) shall be omitted ; 


(9) in sub-section (2), the first proviso and the word 
‘further’ in the second proviso shall be omitted, 
and the sub-section shal] be re-numbered as sub- 
section (J); 


(c) sub-section (3) shall be re-numbered as sub-section 


ঠ 


শা 


part চা] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 213 


———————— سصصصصٌصع-سعسعَرےُ‪ُکُکصککصکصبطللک‎ 
(7) for sub-section (4), the following sub-sections shall 
be substituted, namely :— 


(3) The Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition 
which does not comply with the provisions of 
section 81, section 82 or section 117 notwith- 
standing that it has not been dismissed by the 
Election Commission under section 5۰ 


(4) Any candidate not already a respondent shall, 
upon application made by him to the Tribunal 
within fourteen days from the date of com- 
mencement of the trial and subject to the pro- 
visions of section 119, be entitled to be joined 
as a respondent, 


Ezplanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section 
and of section 97, the trial of a petition shall 
be deemed to commence on the date fixed for 
the respondents to appear before the Tribunal 
and answer the claim or claims made in the 
petition. 


(5) The Tribunal may, upon such terms as to costs 
and otherwise as it may deem fit, allow the 
particulars of any corrupt practice alleged in 
the petition to be amended or amplified in such 
manuer as may in its opinion be necessary for 
ensuring a fair and effective trial of the peti- 
tion, but shall not allow any amendment of the 
petition which will have the effect of introduc- 
-Ing particylars of a corrupt practice not pre- 
viously alleged in the petition. 


(6) Every election petition shall be tried as expedi- 
tiously as possible and endeavour shall be made 
to conclude the trial within six months from 
the date of publication of the copy of the 
petition in the Official Gazette under sub-section 
(1) of section 86.’’. 


52. In section 97 of the principal Act,— Amend- 
ment of 
section 97, 


(৫) in the proviso to sub-section (Z), for the words and 
figures, ‘‘the publication of the election petition 
under section 90’’, the words “commencement of 
the trial’’ shall be substituted; 


(b) in sub-section (2), the words ‘‘list of’? shall be 


omitted. 
53. In section 98 of the principal Act,— Amend- 
ment of 
section 98, 


(9) in clause (b) and clause (c), for the words “‘the 
returned candidate’, the words “811 or any of the 
returned candidates”? shall be substituted: and 


(b) the word ‘‘or’’ occurring at the end of clause (c) and 
clause (d) shall he omitted, 


214 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 99. 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 
100. 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 9, 1956 


54, In section 99 of the principal Act,— 


~ (a) in sub-section (J)— 


(1) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substi- 
tuted, namely :— 


‘‘(a) where any charge is made in the petition of 
any corrupt practice having been committed 
at the election, recording— 


(s) a finding whether any corrupt practice has or 
has not been proved to have been committed 
by, or with the consent of, any candidate 
or his agent at the election, and the nature 
of that corrupt practice; and 


(22) the names of all persons, if any, who have 
been proved at the trial to have been guilty 
of any corrupt practice and the nature of 
that practice; and’’; and 


(28) in the proviso, for the words ‘‘no person shall he 
named’’, the words “‘a person who is not a party 
to the petition shall not be named’’ shal] be 
substituted; and 


(b) for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall 
be substituted, namely :— 


(2) In this section and in section 100, the expression 
‘agent’ has the same meaning as in section 


”,123 سد 


55. In section 100 of the principal Act,— 


(৫) for sub-sections (4) and (2), the following sub- 
section shall be substituted, namely :— 


'')1( Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if 
the Tribunal 1s of opinion— 


(a) that on the date of hig election a returned candi- 
date was nut qualified, or was disqualified, to 
be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitu- 
tion or thig Act or the Government of Part 
C States Act, 1951; or 


(6) that any corrupt practice has been committed by 
a returned candidate or his election agent or 
by any other person with the consent of a 
returned candidate or his election agent; or 


(c) that any nomination hag been improperly 
rejected ; or 


[Pant V 


রাহা বাজ‏ واصجود উই নাও‏ وجار 


49 of 1951. 


par? V] THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


(0) that the result of the election, m so far as it 
concerns a returned candidate, has been 
materially affected— | 


(2) by the improper acceptance of any nomina- 
tion, or 


(wt) by any corrupt practice committed in the 
interests of the returned candidate by a 
person other than that candidate or his 
election agent or a person acting with the 
consent of such candidate or election agent, 
or 


(822) by the improper reception, refusal or rejec- 
tion of any vote or the reception of any vote 
which is void, or 


(iv) by any non-compliance with the provisions 
of the Constitution or of this Act or of any 
rules or orders made under this Act, 


the Tribunal shall declare the election of the 
returned candidate to be void.’’; and 


(b) sub-section (3) shall be re-numbered as sub-section 
(2) and in that sub-section ag so re-numbered— 


(৫) the words and figures ‘‘specified in section 123’ 
shall be omitted ; 


(71) in clause (a), for the words ‘‘without the sanction 
or connivance’, the words ‘“‘without the con- 
sent’’ shal] be substituted; and 


(126) in clause (c) and clause (d), the words ‘‘or illegal”’ 
shall be omitted. 


56. In section 101 of the principal Act, in clause (0), the 
words “or illegal’’ shall be omitted. 


57. Section 104 of the principal Act shall be omitted. 


58. Section 105 of the principal Act shall be omitted. 


59. In section 106 of the principal Act,— 


(a) the brackets and words ‘(other than a primary 
election)’ shall be omitted; 


215 


Amoend- 
mont of 
section 
101, 


Omission 
of section 
104. 


Omission 
of section 
105, 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 
106. 


216 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 18060 [Paar V 
(9) forthe words ‘shall cause the order to be published 
in the Gazette of India and in the Official (razette 
- of the State concerned’, the following shull be 
substituted, namely :--- 
‘shall cause the order to be published— 

(a) where the order relates to an election to a House 
of Parliament, in the Gazette of India as 
well as in the Official Gazette of the State 
concerned; and 

(b) where the order relates to an election to the 
House or a House of the Legslature of the 
State, in the Official Gazette of the State.’’. 

Substitu- 60. For section 107 of the principal Act, the following 
tion of section shal] be substituted, namely : — 

New .ن80‎ 

tion for 

section 

107. 

Effect of “107. (1) Every order of the Tribunal under section 98 
ordersof or section 99 shall take effect as soon as it is pronounced by 
the Tribu. the Tribunal. 

nal. 

(2) Where by an order under section 98 the election of a 
returned candidate is declared to be void, acts and proceed- 
ings in which that returned candidate has, before the date 
thereof, participated us a member of Purliament or as a 
member of the Legislature of a State shall not be invalidated 
by reason of that order, nor shall such candidate be subjected 
ہا‎ any liability or penalty on the ground of such partitipa- 
6100. ہے‎ 

Amend- 61. In section 111 of the principal Act, the following 
ment — words shall be added at the end, namely :— 
of section 
Lil. 

‘‘and thereupon the Election Commission shall publish 

the report in the Official Gazette’’. 
দীন রর 62, In Part VI of the principal Act, after Chapter IV, 
of now the following Chapter shall be inserted, namely :— 
Chapter 
after 
Chapter IV 
in Part VI. 
“Cuapter IVA 
Appeals 

Appeals 116A. (Z) An appeal shall lie from every order made by a 
against = Tribunal under section 98 or section 99 to the High Court 
orders _ of the State in which the Tribunal is situated. 
of Election 
Tribunals. 


(2) The High Court shall, subject to the provisions of 
this Act, have the same powers, jurisdiction and authority, 
and follow the same procedure, with respect to an appeal 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 91959 


under this Chapter as if the appeal were an appeal from an 
original decree passed by a civil court situated within the 
local limits of its civil appellate jurisdiction : 


Provided that where the High Court consists of more than 
two judges every appeal under this Chapter shall be heard 
by a bench of not less than two judges. 


(3) Every appeal under this Chapter shall be preferred 
within a period of thirty days from the date of the order of 
the Tribunal under section 98 or section 99: 


Provided that the High Court may entertain an appeal 
after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is 
satisfied that the appellant had sufficient cause for not pre- 
ferring the appeal within such period. 


(4) Where an appeal has been preferred against an order 
made under clause (b) of section 98, the High Court may, 
on sufficient cause being shown, stay operation of the order 
appealed from and in such a case the order shall be deemed 
ا‎ to have taken effect under sub-section (JZ) of section 
107, 


(5) Every appeal shall be decided ag expeditiously as pos- 
sible and endeavour shall be made to determine it finally 
within three months from the date on which the memorandum 
of appeal is presented to the High Court. 


116B. The decision of the High Court on appeal under 
this Chapter and subject only to such decision, the order of 
the Tribunal under section 98 or section 99 shall be final and 
conclusive.’’. 


63. In section 119 of the principal Act, for the words, 
brackets and figure ‘‘sub-section (Z)’’, the words, brackets 
and figure “sub-section (4)’’ shall be substituted. 


64. After section 119 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be inserted, namely :—~ 


“119A. Every person who prefers an appeal under 
Chapter IVA shall enclose with the memorandum of appeal 
a Government treasury receipt showing that a deposit of five 
hundred rupees has been made by him either in a Govern- 
ment treasury or in the Reserve Bank of India in favour of 
the Secretary to the Election Commission as security for the 
costs of the appeal.’”’. 


65. For the heading of Part VII of the principal Act, 
the following heading shall be substituted, namely :— 


“Corrupt Practices AND 10700701881, OFFENCES’? 


سس سستے ھ- ‏ ‫ جج ٠-0-۰‏ .-.-حچّٰٰٔعسمحجصصحےّمّح-کسےمےھےح-ط-ِسجج٠٠ع”۹"۷7"ى<ً<ًعمےمسےےسص-صسسمسبےسسڑھےھےےےے‏ 


Finality 
of orders 
and deci- 
gions. 


Amend.- 

ment 

of section 
1 


Insertion 
of new 
section 
after 
section 
119. 


Security 
for costs 


0 
appeal. 


Subatitu- 
tion of 
new head- 
ing for 
heading of 
Part VII. 


218 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr V 


এ ++ 


Substitu- 66. In Part VII of the principal Act, for Chapters I 


Bee nae and 11) the following Chapter shall be substituted, namely سے‎ 


ter for 

Chapters 

T and Il 

in Part “CHAPTER 1 
Vil. 


Corrupt Practices 


123. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt prac- 
tices for the purposes of this Act:— 


(1) Bribery, that is to suy, any gift, offer or promise 
by a candidate or his agent or by any other person, 
of any gratification to any person whomsoever, 
with the object, directly or indirectly of induc- 
ing— 


(a) a person to stand or not to stand as, or to with- 
draw from being, a candidate, or to retire from 
contest, at an election; 


(b) an elector to vote or refrain from voting at an 
election, 


or as a reward to— 


(1) a ধা for having so stood or not stood, or for 
aving withdrawn his candidature, or for hav- 
ing retired from contest; or 


(12) an elector for having voted or refrained from 
voting. 


سپ 


Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause the term 
“gratification”? ig not restricted to pecuniary gratifications 
or gratifications estimable in money and it includes all forms 
of entertainment and all forms of employment for reward; 
but it does not include the payment of any expenses bona 
fide incurred at, or for the purpose of, any election and 
duly entered in the account of election expenses referred 
to in section 78. 


(2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or indirect 
interference or attempt to interfere on the part of the candi- 
date gr his agent, or of any other person, with the free exer- 
cise of any electoral mght: 


Provided that— 


(a) without prejudice to the generality of the pro- 
visions of this clause any such person as is referred 
to therein who— 


(t) threatens any candidate, or any elector, or any 
person in whom a candidate or an elector is 
interested, with injury of any kind including 


Part V) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 219 


...ےس ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 


social ostracism and excommunication or 
expulsion from any caste or community; or 


(17) induces or attempts to induce a candidate or an 
elector to believe that he, or any person in 
whom he is interested, wil] become or will be 
rendered an object of divine displeasure or 
spiritual censure, 


shall be deemed to interfere with the 26৪ 
exercise of the electoral right of such candidate 
or elector within the meaning of this clause; 


(6) a declaration of public policy, or a promise of 
public action, or the mere exercise of a legal 
right without intent to interfere with an elec- 
tora] right, shall not be deemed to be interference 
within the meaning of this clause. 


(3) The systematic appeal by a candidate or his agent or 
by any other person, to vote or refrain from voting on 
grounds of caste, race, community or religion or the use of, 
or appeal to, religious symbols or the use of, or appeal to, 
national symbols, such as the national flag or the national 
emblem, for the furtherance of the prospects of that candi- 
date’s election. 


(4) The publication by a candidate or his agent or by 
any other person, of any statement of fact which is false, 
and which he either believes to be false or does not believe 
to be true, in relation to the personal character or conduct 
of any candidate, or in relation to the candidature, or 
withdrawal, or retirement from contest, of any candidate, 
being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the 
prospects of that candidate’s election. 


(5) The hiring or procuring, whether on payment or 
otherwise, of any vehicle or 6889] by a candidate or his 
agent or by any other person, for the conveyance of any 
elector (other than the candidate himself, the members of 
his family or his agent) to or from any polling station pro- 
vided under section 26 or a place fixed under sub-section (1) 
of section 29 for the poll: 


Provided that the hiring of a vehicle or vessel by an 
elector or by several electors at their joint costs for the 
purpose of conveying him or them to and from any such 
polling station or place fixed for the poll shall not be deem- 
ed to 2 a corrupt practice under this clause if the vehicle 
or vessel so hired 18 0 vehicle or vessel not propelled by 
mechanical power: 


Provided further that the use of any public transport 
vehicle or vessel or any tramcar or railway carriage by any 
elector at his own cost for the purpose of going to or 
coming from any such polling station or place fixed for the 
ie shall not be deemed to be a Corrupt practice under this 
clause. 


220 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


[Parr V 


Amond- 
ment of 
section 
126. 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 
133. 


Amend. 
mont of 
section 
134. 


۴ 


Amend- 
mont of 
section 
136. 


Eeplanatwn.—In this clause, the expression ‘vehicle’ 
means any vehicle used or capable of being used for the 
purpose of road transport, whether propelled by mechanical 
power or otherwise and whether used for drawing other 
vehicles or otherwise. 


(6) The incurring or authorising of expenditure in 


contravention of section 77. 


(7) The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempt- 
ing to obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent, or, by 
any other person, any assistance (other than the giving of 
vote) for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate’s 
election, from any person in the service of the Government 
and belonging to any of the following classes, namely : سے‎ 


(a) gazetted officers; 

(b) stipendiary judges and magistrates; 

(c) members of the armed forces of the Union; 

(7) members of the police forces; 

(e) excise officers; 

(1) revenue officers including village accountants, such 
as, patwaris, lekhpals, talatis, karnams and the 
like but excluding other village officers; and 


(7) such other class of persons in the service of the 
’ Government as may be prescribed. 


Laplanation.—(Z1) In this section the expression ‘agent’ 
includes an election agent, a polling agent and any person 
who is held to have acted as an agent in connection with 
the election with the consent of the candidate. 


(2) For the purposes of clause (7), a person shall be 
deemed to assist in the furtherance of the prospects of a 
candidate’s election if he acts as an election agent, or a 
polling agent or a counting agent of that candidate.’’. 


67. In section 126 of the principal Act, for the word 
‘constituency’’ occurring at both places, the words ‘‘polling 
urea’? shall be substituted. 


68, In section 133 of the principal Act, for the word, 
brackets and figure “‘clause (6)’’, the word, brackets and 
figure “clause (9)+ shall be substituted. 


বারি 


69. In section 134 of the principal Act, in sub-section 


(3), after the words ‘Electoral Registration Officers’, the 
words ‘Assistant Electoral Registration Officers’ shall be 


inserted. 


70. In section 136 of the principal Act, in clause (d), of 
sub-section (7), after the words ‘‘to any person’’, the words 
“or receives any ballot paper from any person or is 10 
possession of any ballot paper’’ shal] be inserted. 


সপ সপ বস পপ পপ পাক 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


71, For section 140 of the principal Act, the following 
section shall be substituted, namely سے ؛‎ 


140, The corrupt practices specified in section 123 shall 
entai] disqualification for membership of Parliament and of 
the Legislature of every State for a period of six years 
counting from the date on which the finding of the Election 
Tribunal as to such practice takes effect under this Act.’’. 


72. (1) In part VIIT of the principal Act, in Chapter I, 
after section 140, the following section shall be inserted, 
namely :— 


‘140A. The Election Commission may, for reasons to 
be recorded, remove any disqualification under this Chapter 
or reduce the period of any such disqualification.’’ 


(2) It is hereby declared that any disqualification for 
membership entailed by any act which has ceased to be a 
corrupt or illegal practice under the principal Act as amend- 
ed by this Act shal] stand removed. 


73, Section 142 of the principal Act shall be omitted. 


74, 


(1) Section 143 
omitted. 


of the principal Act shall be 


(2) It is hereby declared that any disqualification for 


voting incurred by any person under the said section for ॥ 


default in making a return of election expenses shall stand 
removed, 


75. Section 146 of the principal Act shall be omitted. 


76. In section 148 of the নাং Act, for the words 
‘Council of States’, the words ‘electoral collepe’ shall be 
substituted. 


77. In section 162 of the principal Act, in sub-section 
(2), the words ‘‘or group of such States’’ shall be omitted. 


221 


Substitu- 
tion of 
new sec- 
tion for 
section 
140. 


Corrupt 
practices 
entaili 
diaqualit 
cation, 


\ 


Insertion 
of new — 
section 
140A, 


Removal, 
or reduc- 
tion of 
period, of 
disquali- 
fications. 


Omission 
of section 
142, 


Omission 
of section 


under that 
section. 


Omission 
of section 
146. 


Amond- 
ment of 
section 
148, 


۰ھ 
ment of‏ 
section‏ 
,162 


222 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 [Parr V 


Substitu- 78, For section 153 of the principal Act, the following 
tion of section shall be substituted, namely :— 

now 8660. 

tion for 

section 

153. 

Extension “1538. It shall be competent for the Election Com- 
plans mission for reasons which it considers sufficient, to extend 
0 * 1 


the time for the completion of any election by making‏ سم 
eloction, necessary amendments in the notification issued by ×× under‏ 
section 30 or sub-section (J) of section 7۰‏ 


Saree 79. In section 157 of the principal Act,— 
Taent 9 
ঢা (a) in sub-section (1) for the word and figures ‘section 


75’ the word and figures ‘section 74’ shal] be 
substituted; and 


(9) in sub-section (2), for the word and figures ‘section 
75’ the word and figures ‘section 74’ shall be 


substituted. 
Amend. 80. In section 158 of the principal Act,— 
ment 0 
section (৫) in sub-section (7), the words, brackets and gh 
158. ‘or in that section read with sub-section (4) of 
section 39’ and the words, brackets and figure ‘or 
in that sub-section read with the said sub- 
section (¢)’ shall be omitted; and 
(9) in sub-section (4)১-- 
(1) the words, brackets and figures ‘or under that 
ہہ‎ sub-section read with sub-section (4) of section 
30’ shall be omitted; and 
(28) in the second proviso, the words ‘or at an elec- 
tion in a Council constituency and an election 
by the members of the State Legislative 
Assembly to fill seats in the State Legislative 
Council’ shall be omitted. 
Amend- , 81. In section 159 of the principal Act, the words ‘the 
mentof Election Commission or’ shal] be omitted. 
section 
159, 
Amend- 82. In section 169 of the principal Act, after sub- 


mentof section (2), the following sub-section shall be inserted. 
section 


169. namely : سے‎ 

(53) All rules made under this Act shall, as soon as may 
he after they are made, be laid for not less than 
thirty days before both Houses of Parliament 
and shall be subject to such modifications as 
Parliament may make during the session in which 
they are so laid or the session immediately 
following.’’ 


parr দ]. শানু CALOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 223 
SSS جح چچچچچچچچ چچجچ کش‎ 


9০:77], 83. In the Government of Part 0 States Act, 195),— নি 
onvia 
amend- 
monts, 

(a) in section 7,— 


(1) the word ‘and’ shall be added at the end of clause 
(a); and 


(11) the word ‘and’ at the end of clause (6), the whole 
of clause (0) and the Erplanation shall be 
omitted ; 


(6) section 8 shall be omitted, 


84, Save as otherwise provided in this Act, nothing Act not 
herein shall apply to any election which has been called to apply 
before the commencement of this Act or to any election ٦ pending 
petition arising out of such election, whether such petition is টা 
pending at such commencement or is presented afterwards, 
and all such elections shall be held and petitions tried, and 
all matters in conneCtion with such elections or petitions 
(including the constitution of Election Tribunals) shall be 
regulated, in accordance with the provisions of the law in 
force immediately before such commencement, 


K. Y. BHANDARKAR, 
Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


Gazette 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 


ee, 


PART VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of Indin; Reports of Select 
Committees presented to Parliament; and Bills published before 
mtroduction in Parliament. 


14 of 1947, 


RAJYA SABHA 


The following Bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha 
on the 23rd April 1956:— 


1311), No. vir or 1956. 


A Bill further to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows ;— 


1. This Act may be called the Industrial Disputes 
(Amendment) Act, 1956. 


2. Section 2006 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), shall be re- 
numbered as sub-section (/) thereof, and— 


(a) in sub-section (/) as so re-numbered, for the provisos, 
the following proviso shall be substituted, namely :— 


‘Provided that the compensation payable to a workman 
during any period of twelve months shall net be 
for more than forty-five days.’’; 


(৮) after sub-section (1) as so re-numbered, the following 
sub-seetion shall be inserted, namely :— 


‘(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso 
to sub-section (7), if during any period of twelve 
months, a workman is laid-off for more than 
forty-five days, whether continuously or inter- 
mittently, and the lay-off after the expiry of the 
first forty-five days comprises continuous periods 
of one week or more, the workman shall, unless 
there 1s any agreement to the contrary between 
him and the employer, be paid for all the days 
comprised in every such subsequent period of lay- 
off for one week or more compensation at the rate 
specified in sub-section (J): 

Provided that it shall be lawful for the employer in any 
case falling within this sub-section to retrench 


Short title. 


Amend. 
ment of 
section 
250, 


124 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 9 [Part VI 


ے وسےوسوڈیونیڈوکیدراکٹایاکواووونتککرورکھیخفیپوکھیجاکئکھکککواااناپفواکواسوٹاومراکیپپاجسسوئن گے 
دس دھ ج ھا دوس ১০ eae‏ 


the workman int accordance with the provisions 
contained in section 20] at any time after the 
expiry of the first forty-five ‘days of lav-off and 
when he does so, any compensation paid to the 
workman for having been laid-off during the 
preceding twelve months may be set off against 
the compensation payable for- retrenchment.’’. 


Insertionof =»). 3, After section 25F of the principal Act, the following 
new section ৯ : টু 
2ম, 8806700 shalt be inserted, namely :— 

Spectal = “25K F, Notwithstanding anything contained in sectiou' 
Petineto | SOs no workman shall be entitled to compensation unde‘ 
workin that section by reason merely of the fact that there has been 
employed یع‎ change of employers in any vase where the ownership or 
inundor- management of the undertaking in which he is employed 
takings is transferred, whether by agreement or by ¢ peration of law, 


which are 
transforred, {rom one employer to another: 


Provided that— 


(a) the service of the workman has not been interrupted 
by reason of the transfer; 


(6) the terms and conditions of service applicable to the 
workman after such transfer are not in any way 
less favourable to the workman than _ those 
applicable to him immediately before the trans 
fer; and 


(c) the employer to whom the ownership or management 
of the undertaking is so transferred is, under the 
terms of the transfer or otherwise, legally liable 
to pay to the workman, in the event of his re- 
trenchment, compensation on the basis that his 
service has heen continuous and has not been 
interrupted by the transfer.’’. 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 


Doubt has been raised whether retrenchment compensation under the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, becomes payable by reason merely of the 
fact that there has been a change of employers, even if the service of the 
workman is continued without interruption and the terms and conditions of 
his eervice remain unaltered. This has created difficulty in the transfer, 
reconstitution and amalgamation of companies and it is proposed to make 
the intention clear by amending sertion 25F of the Act. 


2. Questions have also heen raised whether a workman who is Inid-of 
for more.than forty-five days continuo‘isly is entitled to lay-off compensation 
for any period beyond the first forty-five days. Opportunity has been taken 
ty» remove the وھ‎ by specifying the circumstances under which such 
ঠা lear beyond the first forty-five days would be admissible to a 
workmun. 


KHANDUBHAL K. ESAT. 
NEW (71: 
The 23rd March, 1950. 


5. N. MUKERJEE. 
Secy, 


Registered No. C207 No. 32 of 1956 


Calrutta Gazette 


5 ‘ 2۴ চি 
চা 
٠ 

' 1 0 
‫ 
7 : 
৪ ate, 
° ‘ 
Par 
© ' 
চট ব্রি - 
‘ 
7 کے‎ 0 
৬ ۰ ' 
0 রি | 
ay 
; 4 
۳ 4 
2 1 ডু 
7 3 
۳ 
e 4 
× 4 
’ 
of, 
e 
۰ ۰ £ 
A ৮ 


IN ولم‎ পপ শশা 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 


CONTENTS: 
Pages. 

Weekly Weather and Crop Report of Weat 

Bengal for the week ending the 26th 

July 1956 ie ৪ -» 509-510 
Fourth and Final Forecast of Cotton, Crop of 

West Bengal for 1955.56 oe 511 
Calcutta Corporation—Notification ট্রি 5] 


=——- 


~~ ৮০ 


৩০০ ওএস ৬ পা পান 


7! 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional report on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 26th July 1956. 
سنا وو کہ نوس وی‎ week under report there was rainfall in thirty-six subdivisions. The weather conditions were unfavourable 
in five subdivisions. Transplantation of Aman continued in some subdivisions. 


The condition of the standing crop was on the whole fair. The Fodder was reported to be insufficient in seventeen subdivisions 
and cattle-disease was reported from five subdivisions. 


The wagos of the labourer varied from Rupee one to Rupees two and annas eight during the week under report. 
Total The minimum 
rainfi 


all price of coarse Oharacter of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder Cattle. Labopr wages 
» Districts and during rice in seers per weatherandits agricultural opera- seed, ifany.§ thestandingf condition. disease. without food. 
subdivisions. the rupee. effect on the tions. crops 
week. پسپ.]ےژ۔ے 4ت نسکسھھ‎ standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous outéurn). 
জা ৩৩৫ week. 
1 ۶ Re)’ 2d) 4 6 6 ۲ 8 9 fo 
24-08. 
Sadar 3 8:03 2 2 Favourable .. Transplantation 1 -۰ Fair .» Insufficient No feport .. Ras. 1-8, 
‘ progressing. 
Diamond Harbour 7°16 & 2 Ditto me Ditto .. Bcarce Do .. Sufficient .. Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 
Harrackpore .. 2 2 Ditto - Ditto ae Ditto Do .- Insufficient Ditto .. Ra. 2. 
Baraset পে 3°80 2 2 Ditto ee Ditto .. Nil .. Notgood ,. Ditto... Ditto .. RBs. 1-12, high. 
Basirhat oe 2°77 2 1 15/16 Ditto .. Preparation of 7 a Ditto... Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 
seed-bed 
completed. 
“Bongaon ve 8۰24 116/16 115/16 Ditto 7 و‎ এন Fair te Ditto... Ditto .. Es. 2 high. 
0 man 
going on. 
Nadia, 
Badar .. 3-85 114/16 114/16 Favourable .. Trans lantation 7 Fair .. Sufficient .. Reported .. Bs. 1-12, normal. 
of Aman 
going on, 
Ranaghat .. 8-28 114/16 118/16 Ditto . Weeding and Nil 7 Do. .. Insufficient Noreport .. Rs. 1-8. 
intercultural 
operation 
continued. 
Murehidabad. 
Sadar ' 245 118/16 114/16 Favourable . Weeding and Nil .. Falr .. Sufficient .. Noreport . Bs. 1-12. 
intercultural 
operation 
continued. : 
[Lalbagh m4 2°65 115/16 116/16 Unfavourable Aman Nil : Do. ٦ Ditto .. Ditto .. Ra. 1-4. 
transplantation 
| continued. 
andi .. 290 2 1/16 2 1/16 Favourable .. Ditto. Insufficient Ditto .. Ba 1-8. 
Jangipur .. 4°67 118/16 NLRB. Ditto .... Ditto . Ni Fair .. Sufficient .. Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 
Burdwan. 
Badar en 3°77, 115/16 115/16 Favourable Aman Nil .. Fair .. Insufficient Noreport .. Ra, 1-12, normel. 
transplantation 
continued. ٠ 
Asannol যর oe 2 2/16 2 0 ep 27 , a 7 ও oe 
৪ টি 1:70 118/16 116/16 Unfavourable 208 et Nil .. Falr .. Insufficicnt Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 
man 807) 
সী? due to 
rought. 
ددلەچ‎ 7 2°64 114/16 114/16 7 ৮৪ Ditto + 1 7 41 Ditto <x Ditto .. Ra. 1-8. 


510 


Districts ৪9৫ 
subdivisions. 


1 
Birbhum. 
Madar? £ گا‎ 


Rampurhat 4, 


Bankura. 
Sadar 


Vishuwupur oe 


Midnapere. 
Sadar (North) 


Sadar (South) 
Contai ee 


Tamluk 


Ghatal 


Shargram 


Hooghly. 
Sadar 


Serainpur 
Arambagh 
Chandernagore 


Howrah. 
Sadar 7 
Uluberia 7 


নখ 


dalpaiguri. 


۳ 
Sadar -۰ 


Alipurdyr tj 


Darjeeling. 
Sadar 


Kurwong 
Siliguri 
Kallinpong 


88168 


West Dinajpur. 
Wadar 


Ralgunj 

Cooeh Behar. 
Sadar 7 
Dinhata 
Mathabhanga .. 
Mekliganj ٦ 
Tufangan) 


SUPPLEMENT -TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


Calcutta, the 2nd August 1956. 


Total The mininum 
rainfall price of coarse Character of Rtage and pfegress Of Scarcity of Prospectaof .. Fodder 
during rice in seers per- weather and ite” agricultural opera- seed, iiany. thestanding ٭‎ condition, 
the __ Fupee. effect on the tions. crops 
week, পাশপাশি standing 020۹ (estimated 
This» Previous outtarn). 
week. wook. 
2 804) ৯১) - | 6 6 7 8 
0:89 114/0 114/16 Cloudy "ا‎ Traurplantation Nil ... Fair {neufficeint 
progressing, 
8°84 115/16 114/16 Favoufable ৪ Ditto -» Nil Do. Sufficient .. 
1:38 & 1/16 2 1/16 Seasonable Transplantation Nil Fair .. Bufficiont .. 
progressing. 
Nil 2 1/16 2 Cloudy Transplantation Nil »Du. Ke Ditto 
of Aus going 
on. 
Slight 2 3/16 2 7 Transplantation Nil Fair Sufficiont .. 
of Aus going 
on. 
۰ 2 2/16 2 1/16 ৩ উ ৬ eeeoa eo رق‎ 
1:45 116/]16 2 + Beasonable Nil Fair -. Insufficient ~ 
8:1 2 2 Favourable .. Sowing Insufficient Do. ax Ditto 
continued. 
1:25 2 ۶2 Ditto .. Land ee Ditto ., 
preparation 
continued. 
0:91 2 1/16 2 1/16 Ditto .... Transplantation 7 
progressing. 
4-01 112/18 212/16 Favourable  .. Transplantation Fair... ۴ .. Insufficient 
progressing. 
2-57 112/16 112/16 Ditto 7 Ditto Do. Available 
8:06 N.R. 115/16 Unfavourable Ditto ., S8Sutticiont .. Do. -. Sufficient 
‘ 112/16 112/16 eau +s oe 
3 116/16 115/16 ieee Pere 
oe 115/16 115/16 Not bad Transplantation Scarce .. Fair’ 
রঃ progressing. %- بح‎ 
14-30 118/16 114/16 Seasonable ~. Transplantation es Insufficient 
progreasing. 
20:24 114/16 1114/16 cat ee oe 6 
Heavy 110/163 110/16 )016 Transplantation Sufficient Fair .. Sufficiont .. 
continued. 
8°35 112/16 112/16 Wet .. Harvesting of Ditto Do. ey Ditto 
summer 
vegetable 
continued. 
17°81 2 2 Unfavourable & مت‎ সপ Scarce .» Not good Insufficient 
‘ of Aman 
continued. 
6:10 114/16 ]114/16 Favourable “Millet کا‎ Sufficient Fair Sufficient. 
transplantation 
gun. 
2°40 118/16 113/16 Favourable Aman Sufficient Fair Sufficient 
transplantation 
brisk. 
13:45 114/16 N.R. Favourable Aman Sufficient Fair .. Sufficient ,. 
transplantation 
continued. * 
8-87.01 18/16 N.B. ۰ Ditto - Ditto .. Do. Ditto 
7 114/16 1.3. re rr ar 7 
4089 114/16 114/16 Favourable Aman * Sufficient .. Fair .» Sufficient 
transplantation 
continued. 
7 113/16 112/16 Ditto Ditto i Ditto .. Do. Ditto .. 
116/16 115/16 Ditto Ditto £ Ditto? .. Do .. Insufficient 
‘ 114/16 114/16 Unfavourable Aus 814৮1861718 Ditto Bad ٠ Ditto... 
almoet 
N.B.-—-No report. 


Cattle. 
diseaac. 


Reported 


Noreport .. 


161 


No report 


Reported . 


Ditto 


No report 


Ditto 


۱ No report 


Ditto 
Ditto 


৬৯ 


رھ 


۰٠ Ba. 2-3, 

No report .. Ra. 2, 
Noreport .. Kes. 2. 

Ditw .. Be. 2. 

Ditto} .. Ras. 2. 

Ditto .. KRa’2. 
Reported .. Ras. 1-6, 
No report, .. Res, 1-10. 

Ditto Rs. 2, normal. 

No report .. Is. 1-12, high. 

Ditto ae Rs. 2-8. 

Ditto as Ra, 1-12. 

Ditto .. Ks. 2. 


۰ 


یم 


oe 


Labour wages 
without ny 


10 


یں 


Rs. 1 “8. 


Yael 0, high. 


Yes, 1-8. 


Ras. 1-4, normal, 


Ra, 1-8: 


Ra. ۸۶12, high. 


Ras. 1-8, low. 


Ra. 1-4, normal 


Ra. 1-10. 


Ra. 1-10. 
Ro, 1, high. 


ea ও 


S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


SUPPIEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 9, 1956 


511 


———————— one neers 


DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE, ۱۲ 
BENGAL. 


Calcutta, the 28th MARCH 1956. 


Fourth and Final Forecast of Cotton Crop of West 
Béngal for 1955-56. 


Season.—The weather conditions have been fair 
in the districts of 24-Parganas, Nadia, Birbhum. 
In the districts of Howrah and Hooghly and 
[3801 070 droughty weather conditipns prevailed 
at the early stage but thé subsequent weather con- 
ditions have been fair. Weather conditions were 
unfavourable in Midnapur. 


Area sown.—1!25 acres have been estimated ص٥‎ 
be under 00৮04) Crop this year compared to 250 
acres,*the final estimate of last year. The total 
yield of cotton for the State as a whole is estimated 
6ج‎ 41 bales this year. Compared to 77 bales, the 
final estfmate of last year. 


This year the entire area is reported to have 
been wown with Parbani American Variety. 


hy & 
S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


APPENDIX I. 


Fourth and final forecast of Cotton Crop of West Bengal for 1955-56. 


Remarks, 


101851 8. Area in acres. Total yleld in 05158 of 392 Ib. Date by which the harvesting 
each. of the crop generally com- 
ے‎ ce 8100060 this ۲٥٢٢ 8110 whether 
Last This year Leat This year. that date was early, late or 
year, مم ےہ میس سم‎ normal. 
U.P. American U. PF. American 
Deshi. Parbhani. Deshi. Parbhani. 
1 2 8 4 5 0 7 8 9 
yaé-Parganas 7 80 ۱ 20 6 4 Middle of October, norma) The weather conditions have been fair. 

Naga 7 80  *, 20 10 8 Ditto Ditto 

Murshidabad ., 10 ey ٠ 4 

Burdwan ae 10 7 ee 3 ٭‎ ۹ ۹۹۹۹۹۹۹۹۹ ۰۹۹۹,40 

277 7 10 >7 16 8 5 Last part of December, normal The weather conditiofs have been 
| favourable, 

Bankura 7 80 20 10 8 November, normal Droughty candijfbne provaile! at the 
carly stage ie tie ৪৮5১8৩01591) ای کس‎ 
conditions have peen fair. 

Midnapore me 80 a 30 25 10 Last week of November, normal The weather conditions have not been 
০০০ اس کا‎ drought has 

a € cultivation and ۳ 
of the crop to some extent, ০045 

Reoghly a 10 es 10 8 3 November, normal Droughty conditions prevailed 8 the 
early stage but the ৪ uent woather 
020 have been fair. 

Howrah 10 10 3 8 Ditto Ditto 

Jaipagui ہم‎ 30 8 tc 

Dasfeeling ye A ae 

West Dinajpur oe ee 7 

০১০০ Behar oe 10 ee pe 2 see مو و و و‎ we 

۸۹ 
a 125 7? 7 41‏ 250 ہے 
لاو سن 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printin 
ae West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 9th Auguat 


CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA 
NOTIFICATION 
Central Municipal Office, Calcutta, the Ist August 
1956. 


Repayment of 4 per cent. Calcutta Municipal 
Debenture Loan of 1939-40, dated 1st Novem- 
ber 1939. 


The 4 per cent. Calcutta Municipal Debenture 
Loan of Ist November 1939, for Rs. 15,56,800 is 
repayable on the 186 November 1956. from which 
date interest on it will cease. Holders of Deben- 
tures of this loan should tender their Debentures 
at the Local Authorities Loan Section, State Bank 
of India, Calcutta, at least three weeks before the 
due date of repayment with the following 
endorsement on the back of each Debenture :— 


“Received payment in full of all demand for 
principal and interest hereon.’ 


وے و ھچ و مج و + و ّ8 ج8 eee‏ نچ eeee¢eneveee © Cee‏ 


Signature of Holder. 
.ظط‎ GHOSH, 


Secretary to the Corporation. 


, West Bengal, 
joss. 


Registered No. C207 No. 3988) 


Calcutta 


টি 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 1956 
—ey————————————————EEEE er 
PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 

Béngal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES 


Food and Supplies 


ORDER 


No. 7918F.8.—9th August 1956.—In exercise 
of the, power conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 
1955), read with clause (c) of sub-section (2) of 
that section and the order No. 18-C1(4)/55/I, dated 
the LOth June 1955, of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Production, published at pages 
1068 and 1069 of Part II, section 3, of the Gazette 
of India of the 18th June 1955, the Governor is 
pleased to make the following amendments in the 
(Jevernment of West Bengal, Food, Relief and 
Supplies Department, order No. 3657F.S., dated 
the. 7th April 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the 
said order), namely :— 


Amendments 


In the said order—in items A and B under the 
lieading ‘‘Hard Coke’’— 


(৮) for the entries against the items under the 
heading ‘‘Large Rubble or Smithy over 
4”’, substitute the following’ entries, 
namely :— 
Rs. as. p. 
(per maund). 


(7) if the ash content does not 
exceed 24 per cent. _... 2 3 3 


1947 


1948 THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORIINARY, [Parr I 
AUGUST 0, 1956 


ee Re en 
ee ee ee ae 


Rs. as. p. 
(per maund). 


(77) 1f the ash content: exceeds 


24 per cent. but does not 
exceed 30 per cent. we © ٦5 © 


BRB. From Bee-Hive and QGountry ovens-— 


(2) Tf the ash content does not 
‘exceed 24° per eent. << = + ٤ 
(27) if the ash content exceeds 
24 per cent. but doea not | 
exceed 30 per cent. . 115 O 
(A) রি the éntries under the heading ‘‘Steam 
Coal’’, substitute the following éutries, 
namely : oe 


Run of mine, Steam coal, 
Gust coal and rubble and 
lack. amithy nut. 


Rs. as. p. Rs. ag. رر‎ 
(per maund)._ 


1. Selected Grade A... 1 4 1 1১৮ 4 7 
2. Selected Grade 3B 1 3 4 t 4 1 
২. (Grade I .« 1ا‎ 2 10 ] 2 7 
4. Grade II = 1ً SF 1 38.4 
5. Grade IIIA 1 1 10 L লা ¢ 
6. Grade 1111 1 ] 1] 1 110 


By order of the Governor, 
S. K. GUPTA, 
Jt. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengad. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptzg., 
at West Bengal Govt. Preas, Alipore, on the 9th রি £1956. 


registered No, C207 No. 3588 (1) 


Galriutty 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


از বা সপন aren ope ৬৮‏ دکریج ہے یدوم میں مس مس سم ریو سے تمس مج جم ربچ پراوت از 7 اہ نت ہد دہ یہ سم — 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 86 
এসি 


VAR’ I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Wes: 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 

ERRATA 
Burdwan.—No. 14056L.A.—9th August 1956.— 
Ln notification No, 6000L..A., dated the 27th March 
1056, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
I of 1894, published at page 514, Vart I of the 
Calcutta Gazette Ertraordinary of the 27th idem. 
th respect of the proposed aequisition of land 
required for the Durgapur Steel Project in the 
vilfage of Punubad, thana Faridpur, :ئ۱‎ 

Shergarh, district Burdwan— 


Read the figures ‘890.68 for the figures 
“890.217? in line 27. 


Burdwan.—No. 14058]L,..A.—9tbh August 1956.— 
In declaration No. 6180L. \., dated the 2810 March 
19@6; under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1 of 1894, published at page 519, Part ] of the 
Caleutta Gaze te bHatraordinary of the 28th idem. 
in respect of the proposed acyutsition of land for 


19486 


1948) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Parr I 
AUGUST 9, 1056. 


ج بچھے .دہ 


the Durgapur Steel Project in the village of Puna- 

had, thana 17270017125 pargana Shergarh, district 

Burdwan— 

Pelete the figure ‘‘422°" from lne 23. 

“Lelete tue figures ‘781°’ and ‘6794’ from line 
26. 

Deleve the figure ''9560'' trom line 28. 

Delete the figure ‘1316’ from line 32. 

Pelete the figure ‘'1440” from line 35. 

Delete the word ‘‘and”’ in between the figures 
$9432"? and £61433" in line 38, 

/neert the figure 704 before the figure 52848) 
in line 36. 

Insert the figure “131Q9’’ an between the 
figures 21284 und £13829” in line 87. 

Insert the word and figure ‘‘and 1440”’ after the 
figure 51439? in line 38, 

Read the figures and word ‘605 to 645” for the 
figures and word, ‘‘605 to 621, 623 to 645°’, 
in line 24. 

/৮০৫০ the figure ‘211’ for the figure 22125 in 
line 20. 

Read the figure 57307 for the figure 667317" tn 
line 25. 

Read the figure ‘1307’ for the figure ‘41308’’ 
in line 32. 

feead the figure ‘‘796.16” for the figure ‘‘787.49”’ 
in line ۰. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


রাহা atten meinneeemnnmanenmes 
Printed and published by the Superintendent. Govt. Ptg., Weat Bengal 
at Weet Bengal Govt. Prean, Alipore, on the 9th August ۸5۶۸. 


Registered No: C207 No. 39601). 


Calritts (90211 


z 
Extraordinary ৯৪ 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the 
High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT. 


Political. 
NOTIFICATION. 

No. 6129P.—10th August 1956.—In exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 9 of the 
West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1954 (West Bengal 
Act XXXIX of 1954), the (Géovernor is ‘pleased to make the 
following rules for the regulation of public exhibitions by 
meang of cinematograph, namely :— 


THE WEST BENGAL CINEMAS (RECULATION OF 
PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS) RULES, 1956. 


Preliminary, 


lL. (1) These rules may be called the West Bengal Short title and 
Cinemas (Regulation of Public Exhibitions) Rules, 1956, commencement. 


{2) They shall apply to public exhibitions by means of 
cinematograph. 


(3) They shall come into force at once. 
2, In these rules, unless the context otherwise Dofinttions. 
requires ,— 


(i) the ‘‘Act’’ means the West Bengal Cinemas 
(Regulation) Act, 1954; 


(ii) ‘‘licence’? means a licence granted under the 
provisions of the Act; 


(111) “licensing authority’? means the authority referred 
to in section 4 of the Act; 


1949 


1970 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1986 [Panr ] 


A ITO رہ‎ আউট সহি (৭ Pp IPO AIDA pte thee ee সি উপ 
ear ہو‎ 


(iv) ‘person’? means any adult male or femaie 
individual and includes any’ company = or 
association or body of individuals, whether 
incorporated or not; 


(v) words not otherwise defined have the same mean- 
ing as in the Act. . 


Kinds of licences. 3. There shall be three kinds of licences, namely :— 
(1) licences for permanent cinemas; 
(ii) licences for temporary indoor cinemas; and 
(111) licences for temporary open air cinemas. 


Part A.—-Permanent cinemas, 


Proud fer ie 4, (1) Any person desirous of building a permanent 

grant of حم"‎ cinema house shall, before commencing construction thereof, 

manent cinema make an application in writing giving all necessary parti- 

0809, culars to the District Magistrate for approval of the proposed 
site and plan of the building. 


(2) On receipt of the application, the licensing authority 
shall consider if the site is suitable for a permanent cinema 
house. If he is of the opinion that the site is suitable for 
a permanent cinema house, he shall publish in his office a 
notice calling for objections, if any, to the proposed 
permanent cinema house, from the local people within 
thirty days from the date of the notice and shall give due 

ublicity thereof by beat of drum or otherwise in the 
নী The licensing authority shall also consult the 
District Boards or Municipal Commissioners’ concerned. 


Holding of’ en- (3) Objections, if any, to the proposed permanent cinema 

quiry and hearing house, shall be filed within the said period of thirty days. 

of objections... After ihe expiry of the said period of thirty days, the 
licensing authority shall, if any objection has been -received 
within the specified period, appoint a date for the hearing 
of the objections locally, and shall either hold an enquiry 
himself or cause it to be held by some other officer deputed 
by him in this behalf. At the same time the licensing 
authority shall see that the following requirements are 
satisfied, namely :-— 


Restrictions in (a) that no permanent cinema house is allowed *a’ be 
regard to the constructed within a quarter of a mile from any 
আন of hospital, educational institution, students’ hostel, 


place of worship, or junction of important roads 
and that in an area outside the 1009] limits of a 
municipality, such a cinema house, if allowed to 
be built, is located near the shopping centre and 
not in a residential locality; 

(b) that no additional permanent cinema house is allowed 
to be constructed— 

(1) within municipal areas, towns or cantonments 
with a population of more than a lakh, within a 
quarter of a mile—or 

(ii) in other municipal areas, towns or cantonments, 
within half a mile—or 


pagel THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., ATG. 10, ۵ 


পপ শি eg eee eer‏ جج —a eo পার্জ‏ وسوے سے ant sami stad ee Se on amc womerttidein Nene‏ - ا © :--وجووضرن سو 
امچجمموہچھہی esl‏ محلم el ere:‏ یومیییوھودےے আপা = nee‏ ہے ہم eget Sig‏ اس পপ পুশ লা‏ ہت 


(111) other localities, within five miles— 
from an existing permanent cinema house; 


(c) that. no permanent cinema house is allowed to be 
constructed unless it has adequate space in its 
compound or in the vicinity for cars to be parked, 
queues of spectators to be formed and the public 
to pass without obstructing any public road or 
(71110, 


(4) After objections, if any, filed under sub-rule (8) have 
been heurd and disposed of, the licensing authority may 
permit the construction of the permanent cinema house 
applied for. 11 the building is not completed, to the satis- 
faction of the licensing authority, within six months of the 
date of permission, the permission shall lapse. 


‘The licensing authority may, however, on the applica-‏ رق 
tion of the person to whom the permission to construct the‏ 
permanent cinema house was given, grant reasonable exten-‏ 
siona of the pertod referred to in sub-rule (4) in cases where‏ 
he is satisfied that construction cannot or could not be‏ 
completed for circumstances beyond the control of the person‏ 
to whom the permission was granted,‏ 


(6) On completion of construction of a permanent cinema 
house to his satisfaction, the heensing authority may grant a 
heence for permanent cinemu after he has ensured that the 
applicantghas complied with these rules and has taken all 
precautiotts provided’ in the Schedule of conditions annexed 
to\Form J appended to these rules so as to provide for the 
৭1৮1 of persons attending exhibitions in the cinema house. 


f. Nothing in these rules shall affect the discretion of 


the licensing authority to refuse a license to any applicant if, 
for reasons, to be recorded in writing, the leensing authority 
considers it necessary 80 to do in the public interest. 


6. (1) A fee shall be levied for the grant of every licence 
for permanent cinema under the Act at the following rates, 
namely :— 


where the cinema house is situated within a municipal‏ آ97 
area or town or cantonment with a population of‏ 
more than one lakh—Rs, 160 for the first year and‏ 
for each subsequent year if the licence is renewed‏ 


on application, the year being calculated from the 
date of the licence. 


(b) where the cinema house is situated in any other 
locality—Rs. 80 for the first year and for each 
subsequent year if the licence is renewed on 


application, the year being calculated from the 
date of the licence. 


(8) The licence granted shall be valid for one year unless 
revoked earlier by the licensing authority. It may be 
renewed from year to year on receipt of an application in 


1951 


Space for parking 
01 cars, ete. 


Time limit ہو‎ 
construction of 
cinemas. 


Extension of time 
hmit in certain 
CASOB, 


Grant of licence, 


Power of 11092 
sing authority to 
refuse licence, 


Rate of licence 
fee, 


Pernod of validity 
of licence, 


1952 


TITRE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 | Part T 


Penalty for not 
renewing the li- 
cence in time. 


Form of licence, 


Procedure for the 
grant of tompo- 
rary indoor 
cinema, licence. 


Conditions 
attached to the 
licence. 


Rate of licence 
foe. 


writing from the licensee for such renewal accompanied b#*a 
fee as provided in sub-rule (1) for the licence, provided that 
all the rules and conditions on which the livence has been 
granted are duly observed by the licensee. 


(3) Anv licensee who fails to apply for renewal of his 
licence with the requisite fee within 15 days of the expiry of 
the term of his licence, shall at the time of its renewal be 
required to pay a fine of Rs. 80 if the cinema house is within 
a municipal area or town or cantonment with a population of 
more than one lakh and Rs. 40 if the cinema house 18 situated 
in any other locality. 


7. A licence for a permanent cinema granted under the 
Act shall be as nearly us possible in 10750) I appended 
to these rules and shall he issued subject to the 
conditions detailed in the Schedule thereto. The conditions 
in the Schedule sha!l be deemed to.be incorporated in the 
licence. 


Part B.—Temporary indoor cinemas. 


8. (1) Any peraon desirous of obtaining a licence for a 
temporary indoor cinema shall apply in writing, giving the 
necessary particulars, to the District Magistrate of the district 
within which it is proposed to hold the shows. 


(2) On receipt of such an application the licensing 
authority, after making necessary enquiries, may, at his 
discretion, grant a licence for a temporary indoor cinema 
subject to the condition that— 


(a) no such licence shall be issued in respect of any 
structure which is situated within a quarter of a 
mile of any hospital, educational institution, 
students’ hostel, place of worship or junction of 
important roads, and 


(b) that no cinema show shall be held— 


(i) within municipal areas, towns or cantonments with 
a population of more than one lakh, withip a 
quarter of a mile—or 


(ii) in other municipal areas, towns or cantonments, 
within half a mile—or 


(iii) in other localities, within five miles— 
from any existing cinema house. 


9, (1) The fee to be levied for a licence for a temporary 
indoor cinema shal] be— 


(a) in municipal areas, towns or cantonments with 4 
population of more than one lakh—Is, 12 per 
month or part thereof; and 


(b) in other localities—Rs. 6 per month or part thereof. 


Part I] 


৬৮ 


داضت جی ا:7 سلر مار ا ارز ودرا سے رد نار ار হারা‏ 


(2) The licence so granted shall, unless revoked earlier by 
ihe licensing authority, remain valid for such period as may 
he specified in the licence subject to the condition that no 
auch licence shall remain valid for more than nine months in 
a continuous period of twelve months. 


THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 


fiir জনসন 


(3) A person desirous of holding shows after the expiry 
of twelve months from the date of commencement of his 
licence for temporary indoor cinema shall make a fresh 
application for a licence. Such an application shall be 
considered as a new application and shall be dealt with 
accordingly. 


10. A licence for a temporary indoor cinema shall be as 
pearly as possible, in Form 11 appended to these rules, 
and shall be issued subject to the conditions detailed in 
the Schedule annexed thereto. The conditions in the 
Schedule shall be deemed to be incorporated in the licence. 


11. The holder of a licence for a temporary indoor cinema 
may shift the venue of the exhibition from place to place, 
after giving due intimation of his programme and itinerary 
in advance to the licensing authority; provided that all the 
rules and safety requirements for holding cinema shows shall 
be duly observed. 


Part C.—Temporary open air cinemas. 


12. (1) A person desirous of holding a licence for a 
temporary open air cinema shall apply with necessary parti- 
culars to the District Magistrate of the district within which 
it is proposed to, hold the open air shows. 


(2) On receipt of an application under sub-rule (1) the 
licensing authority may, at his discretion, grant a licence for 
a temporiry open air cinema valid for a period up 00 twelve 


months at a time for holding open air cinema shows, subject, 
mont others, to the condition that where the shows are held 


by the managements of industrial concerns for the benefit of 
labour in industrial areas or by academic or cultural institu- 
tions, the rates of admission shall be nominal and that such 
shows shall not be utilised by the hcensee for making profit. 


13. The fee for the grant of a licence for a temporary 
open alr cinema shall be the same as for licences for temporary 
indoor enemas provided in sub-rule (1) of rule 9. 


14. A licence for a temporary open air cinema shall be 
issued ag nearly as possible in Form IIT appended to 
these rules and subject to the conditions detailed in the 
Schedule annexed thereto. The conditions in the Schedule 
shall be deemed to be incorporated in the licence. 


1953 


Period of validity 
of licence. 


Fresh 
applications. 


Form of licence. 


Previous intima- 
tion in case of 
change of venue 
of exhibition. 


Procedure for the 
grant of tempo- 
rary open air 
cinema licence. 


Submission of 
applications. 
Conditions on 
which licence 8 
to be granted. 
Rate of licence 
fee. 


, 
Form of licence. 


1964 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG, 10, 1956 [Parr 1 


wy سوسد‎ গা 


ہیں یت 


Previous intima- 15, The holder of a heence for a temporary open air 

tion In caso OF cinema may shitt the venue of the exhibition from place to 

change in. venue کر‎ ২, تر‎ : Es ۱ 

of the exhibition, Place, after wiving due intimation of lis programme and 
itinerary in advance to the licensing authority; provided that 
all the rules and safety requirements for holding cinema shows 


shall be duly observed. 


Part D—Ceneral. 


Powor to impose 16. The licensing authority may, with the approval of 
additional the State Government, insert such additional terms and 
conditions. conditions and rescind, alter or amend the existing terms and 


conditions in respect of licences generally or for particular 
classes of licences in such wmanner as he mav think proper. 


Issue of duplicate 1%. When a leence granted or renewed under these 
licences. rules is either lost or accidentally destroyed, the licensing 
authority may, on receipt of a written application, grant a 
duplicate of the original licence on payment of a fee of Rs. 5, 


Crediting of fees 18. All fees and fines realised under these rules shall be 
realised. credited to the Consolidated Fund of the State. 

চির ا‎ 19. <A licence granted under these rules shall not save as 
ordinarily trans- hereinafter provided in this rule, be transferable and shall be 
ferable. personal for the benefit only of the person to whom it is 


granted. If, however, the proprietorship of the business to 

-- which the licence relates passes during the period of its 
validity from the licensee to somebody else by reason of the 
death of the licensee, the licensing authority may, on receipt 
of a written application in this behalf from the successor in 
interest of the hcensee within one month from the date of 
such passing of proprietorship, substitute the name of such 
successor in the heence as the Jicensee for the remaining 
period of its currency. An application for the renewal of 
دا‎ licence shall be dealt with in accordance with the 
rules. 


Suspension 02 20. Any heence granted under these rules may be 
revocation of Suspended or revoked by the licensing authority or the State 
licence by lieen- (GJovernment for failure of the licensee to comply with any 
sing authority. = direction or condition imposed hy or under these rules. 


an دی سید‎ of 21. The leensee shall be deemed to be responsible for 
the licensee. all the acts of his manager, servants or agents vie out of 
or in connection with the occupation or business to which the 


licence relates. The provisions of this rule shall he in 
addition to and not in derogation of the general law relating 
to liability of a principal for the acts or omissions of his 
servant or agent. 


Part J] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 1955 


99, Free access to any place in respect of which a Free access of 
licence is granted under these rules for giving public age ad servants 
exhibition of films shall be given at all hours to the officers ys 
mentioned below in the execution of their duties, namely سی‎ 


(a) regional officer under the Central Board of Film 
Censors or an officer authorised by him in 
writing; 

(1) the Director of Fire Services, West Bengal or any 
other officer of the Directorate of Fire Services, 
West Bengal, authorised in writing by him; 

(c) the Electrical Inspector, West Bengal; 


(0) the Executive Ingineers of the Works and Build- 
ines Department of the Government of Weat 
Bengul where such officers are deputed for 
inspection of cinema houses; 


(e) any other officer authorised by the licensing autho- 
rity or the State Government. 


23. No film shall be exhibited or allowed to be exhi- Uncertified film 
bited unless the same has heen certified by the Central Board দাশ be exhi- 
of Film Censors as suitable for public exhibition or unless 779০ 


the same has been exempted from the provisions of section 9 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVIT of 1952). 


24. No film which has been certified by the Centra] Films tor exhi- 
Board of Film Censors as suitable for public exhibition و سا سر‎ 
restricted to adults only shall be exhibited or permitted to adults only. 
be exhibited to a person who is not an adult as defined in 
section 2(a) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 


1952), 


25, No part of the foregoing rules concerning licences Exemption. 
shall apply to anv cinematograph exhibition authorised by 
the Government or to any class of cinematograph exhibi- 
tions specially exempted hy the Government under sec- 
tion 10 of the Act. 


26. The State Government shall have the power to Power to appoint 
appoint such staff as may be necessary and shall have the staff. 
power to provide for their duties and functions for the 
purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act and of 
the rules made thoreunder. 


21, No appeal under sub-section (4) of section 5 of the Appeals. 
Act or against an order of suspension or revocation passed 
under rule 20 shall be admitted by the appellate authority 
unless the appeal is filed within thirty days from the date on 
which the licensing authority passed the order: Provided 
that no appeal shall be entertained unless a fee equal to 
one half of the fee payable for the licence, as provided in 
rule 6(1) or rule 9(1) or rule 13, as the case may he, has 
been deposited by the aggrieved person in the Heserve Bank 
of India or in a Government Treasury, before the presenta- 
tion of the memorandum of appeal. 


1956 

Revision by 
Government of 
appellate order. 


Fee leviable, 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG 10, 1956 [Parr I 


28. (1) An appellant who is dissatisfied with the order 
of the appellate authority under clause (a) of sub-section (4) 
of section 5 of the Act may make an applicaion under 
sub-clause (1) of clause (b) of that sub-section to the State 
Government for revision of the order passed by the appellate 
authority. Such an application shall reach the State 
Government within thirty days of the date of the order 
passed by the appellate authority: 


Provided that no such application for revision shall be 
entertained unless a fee equal to one half of the fee payable 
for the licence provided in rule 6(1) or rule 9(1) or rule 13, 
as the case may be, has been deposited by the aggrieved 
person in the Reserve Bank of India or in a Government 
Treasury. 


29. A fee equal to the fee payable for the licence, as pro- 
vided in rule 6(1) or rule 9(1) or rule 19, as the case may be, 
shall, in cases where, under rule 27 or rule 28, the appellate 
authoyity or the State Government passes an order granting 
a licence, be realised from the person in whose favour the 
order 18 passed. 


Part I}: THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 1957 


———————————————————————EE——————————————————————————————————— 


Form | 
Form of a Permanent Licence. 


(Rule 7.) 


THE WEST BENGAL CINEMAS (REGULATION) ACT, 1954 
(WEST 8٤٥۸۲ ACT XXXIX OF 1954). 


| 


ed 


Government of West Bengal. 


‘i fe ee ere و‎ 
۴ ب٣07‎ 
pituated Bt یو مسمسًیصص وو می میں( تا)‎ 5০৯৪৯ ৪৮৪৪৭৪০০৪৪৪ ৪৯5৪৭ کت‎ 
within the district of /town and suburbs of Calcutta......... is licensed under 


sub-section (1) of section 3 of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 
1954 (West Bengal Act XXXIX of 1954), as a place where exhibitions hy 
means of a cinematograph may be given for......... persons. 


The licence has been granted to (0),,১,১5৭55১০৪১০০৪০১০১১০১৪৪২০০৪০০৪০৪৪০৪৪০৪০০৪৭ 


77777 and shall reinain in force only so long as the said 


(c) রর ene ees ce I Gee owns, leases ‘or manages the said (a) 


@eeee eee ءع فو ویج فو و مه‎ Ht eater ane thee ৬৮৪৩৯৭৪৪০৪৪ ৪৪৪১৬ ড৬%৬ক৬ক৬৪৭৪৩৪%%ছডক জজ 


This licence 1s granted subject to the ‘conditions set forth in the Schedule 
annexed to this licence. 


eaesee Sevres ৪৭০৪ tease epee eae %৬$৬ aha rvueeeeeaee ee eve eee چا جع وخ‎ & 


Commissioner of Police, Caleutta 
District Magistrate 01,,,5০55০55০5০৪৪০৫২০৪ ৪০৩ 


وھ ھ ع 86৪6‏ $ *٭ يی یق 7 . ent tte‏ و ؿ Pease‏ ْو+٭+ھ ْٰھی٘ص یر eee eee‏ 


"مص×ىصصٗوسپوووؤَجحجچکسائفومسیسو-سصصسمے 


(a) Name of cinema house. 
(b) Address, 
(০) Name of applicant. 


1958 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 [Part I 


THE SCHEDULE 


Conditions to be attached to a permanent licence issued under the provisions 
of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1954. 


1. The lcensee shall not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited, in the 0۹ء‎ 

22 2 any film other than a 
sim which has been certified as suitable for public exhibition by an authority 
constituted under section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Act XXXVIL 
of 1952), and which, when exhibited, displays the prescribed mark of that 
authority, and has not been altered or tampered with in any way since such 
mark was affixed thereto. 


2 The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be সদ in the said 
7557 any film which has 
been certified by the authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinemato- 
graph Act, 1952 (Act XXXVII of 1952), as suitable for public exhibition 
restricted to adults only, to any person who is not an adult, as defined in 
section 2(a) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. 


_ Note.—This condition shall not be construed as prohibiting the exhibi- 
tion of such film to children below the age of three years. 


3. (1) There shall be prominently exhibited at each public entrance 
whenever the premises are open to the public a notice indicating in tabular 
form and in clear bold letters and figures— 

(a) the title of each film to be shown on that day, other than trailers 
and advertisement films; 


(b) the approximate times of commencement of each such film; 


(c) whether each such film has received an ‘‘A”’ or ‘'U” certificate from 
the Central Board of Film Censors; and 


(d) whether persons below the age of 18 years other than children 
below the age of 3 years will be admitted or not. 


(2) The ‘nature of any certificate received in respect of a film from the 
Central Board of Film Censors shall be clearly indicated by the letter 
“U" or “A” in any advertisement of the film displayed at the premises. 


4. The licensee shal] not display, or cause to be displayed any photo- 
graph, picture or poster which depicts or represents or purports to represent 
a scene or shot which has been excised from any film under the orders of the 
Central Board of Film Censors or the Central Government. 


5. Not more than three shows shall be held, at the place licensed, 
between 2 p.m. and midnight on any week day. 

Outside these hours, 7.e., before 2 p.m. or after midnight, no show shall 
be allowed at the licensed place on any week day except with the previous 
permission~of the licensing authority obtained in writing at least seven 
days in advance. 

Note.—There will be no restriction on the number of shows on Sundays 
and public holidays, provided that no show shall be allowed after midnight. 


G. Display of posters.—No obscene, immodest or objectionable poster, 
placard, hoarding or pictorial publicity. material shall be displayed at the 
show-windows or lobbies of cinema houses or at any other place within the 
licensed premises. 


(a) Name of cinema house. 


Part I} THE CAL, GAZ, FATIY., AUG. 10, 1956 1959 


Lae কির ARTE ৯৫ رج رہ رش سی‎ oh nee کیہ‎ ০ এ ক 87 Wi شضس سر‎ mca Ree ہے‎ OR SMI تاد دج گیل ہرس اش محعسیمجہہ زگ‎ ক সপ ا گر خر ت یں میں نیس‎ 
পপ سو موس ہبہ وجعہ‎ কক ৬৯০8৮ ০ স্পা স্পা চাক” শিবচর জি ৯৭০৬ ৯৮০ পি ۂہمولچہب چہچچھ‎ সি পল্লি এন دی‎ ک١‎ লস উস শর 


نہ 


No loud-speaker or amplifier relaying music or commentary for the‏ ے 
purpose of attracting customers shall be allowed to be fixed outside the‏ 
licensed premises.‏ 


8 A hieence granted under these rules shall not save as hereinafter 
rovided in this condition be transferable and shall be personal for the 
01 only of the person to whom it is granted. If, however, the nroprie- 
torship of the business to which the licence relates passes during the period 
of its validity from the licensee to somebody else by reason of the death of 
the licensee, the licensing authority may, on receipt of a written application 
in this behalf from the successor in interest of the licensee within one month 
from the date of such transfer of proprietorship, substitute the name of sve 
successor in the licence as the licensee for the remaining period of its 
currency. An application for the renewal of such licence shall he dealt 
with in accordance with the rules. 


9. The licensee shall observe the rules notified by the Government 
from time to time in respect of cinematograph shows. 


10. Vhe licensee shall observe the classification of the seats and the prices 
therefor approved by ihe leensing authority and shall not amend or alter 
the same in any way without the prior approval of the lieensing authority. 


11. All buildings or other regulations tor observance at places of publi 
amusement imposed by the municipal by-laws or 2 any other law or by 
rules under any other law, for the time being in force, shall 79 strictly 
adhered to. 


18. The relative positions of the picture sereen and seats shall be such 
boarding or lodging house, factory, workshop or manufactory or for storage 
purposes, except as the licensing authority may, for the time being, allow, 
nor shall such place be used for residential purposes by day or night. 


13. The relative positions of the picture sereen and seats shall be such 
as may be specified in each case by the licensing authority at the time of 
granting the licence so that undue eye-strain may not be caused to persons 
attending the cimematograph exhibition. 


In specifying the relative positions referred to in this condition the 
licensing authority shall see— 


(1) that the angle of elevation subtended at the eye of any person seated 
in the front row by the length of the vertical line dropped from 
the centre of the top edge of the picture to the horizontal plane 
passing through the observer’s eye shall not exceed 35 degrees, 
the height of the eye above the floor level being assumed to be 
3 feet 6 inches, and 


(2) that the angle between the vertical plane containing the upper 
edge of the picture and the vertical plane containing the 
observer’s eye and the remote end of the upper edge of the picture 
shall not be less than 25 degrees: 


Provided that, in the case of cinemascope, 3D, Vistavision, etc., the 
relative positions of the screen and the first row of seats shall be 
such as may be specified in each case by the licensing authority. 


14. Seats.—In_ any portion of the মস্ত which 38 regularly used 
for a closely seated audience, all seats shall be securely fixed to the floor. 
There shal] in all cases be an unobstructed seatway or space between any 


19860 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 | Part 1 


oe ০‏ پچھے ২৫ eet ete ee che re‏ ےپ دللوواجمسپکچوڑڑہہپہےوسیددومچوو سید یں لہ لہ Rae শি ee‏ چد 
ee‏ ہی আক ৯ শি‏ مہ ০ - Oe‏ - ھا ee we‏ وم یوسھ 


a tae 
শি pte سم‎ পপ سم سی‎ স্পা পপ পপ جہ مہے‎ ree ক পাপা سی جح‎ 


two consecutive rows of seats which is at least 10 inches in depth in the case 
of fixed seats and 12 inches im depth (measured with the seat raised) in the 
case of tip-up seats, measured hetween perpendicular, between the back of 
one seat and the foremost portion of the seat, arm or frame behind, In new 
buildings to be constructed, the seatway shall in no case be less than 12 
inches, 


15. Overcrowding —The number of persons admitted ut any time into 
any part of the place licensed shall not exceed such number us may be 
specitied in the licence as the number of persons who may be accommodated 
in such part. No person shall be permitted to remain in any of the 
intersecting gangways. 


16. Counters for sale of cinema tickets.—Such number of counters 
shall be provided in cinema houses for the sale of tickets to the public as 
the licensing authority may determine. Al] tickets for cinema shows shall 
be sold from these counters and from nowhere else. 


17. Fire precautions.—In every place licensed shall. be kept such number 
of chemical extinguishers, fire-buckets, hand-pumps or other small fire 
appliances as the licensing authority shal] direct. The licensee shall comply 
with all directions issued by the leensing authority for the purpose of 
safeguarding the public in case of fire. 


18. Hatt doors.—There shall be exit doors on the three sides of the 
auditorium, with at least one exit door for each class or one for 6 rows of 
seats, whichever is lesa. Open space on the 3 sides of the auditorium should 
be provided which should be not less than one-fourth of the width of the 


auditorium. 


19. 17710195816 for apparatus.—The cinematograph machine shall he 
placed in a permanent enclosure. Such enclosure shall be at least 8 feet 
in height. If one machine is to be operated the floor space shall not be less 
than 48 square feet. If more than one machine is to be operated therein an 
additional 24 square feet shall be provided for each additional machine. 
The enclosure containing the cinematograph machine in these rules 
referred to as ‘‘the enclosure’? shall be substantially constructed of fire 
resisting materials. 


20. Entrance to the enclosure und means of rentilation.—The entrance 
to the enclosure shall be through a closely fitting self-closing door of fire- 
resisting material, suitably placed and opening outwards, and all openings, 
bushes and points shall be so constructed and maintained as to prevent, 
so fur as possible, the escape of any smoke into the auditorium. This door 
shall be kept closed at all times when not used for ingress or egress. 
Channels of ventilation shall not be allowed to communicate direct with 
the auditorium. The enclosure in which the machine is being operated 
shall be provided with a vent flue in its roof or upper part of its side wall 
leading tg the outdoor air, there being a separate vent flue for each cine- 
matograph machine. The vent flue shall have a minimum sectional area of 
50 square inches and shall be fire resisting. The vent flue shall fall below 
45° in each rise unless it has forced extraction. The vent flue shall be 
cleaned regularly to ensure that there 1s no obstruction by the resultant 
white powder which forms: 


Provided that when the enclosure is so built that it may be constructed 
to open directly on the outside of a building through a window such window 
shall he permitted for the comfort of the operators but such enclosure shall 
not be exempted from the requirement of the installation of vent flues (as 
prescribed above). 


Pant 1] THE CAL, GAZ. RXTRY., AUG. 16, 1956 1961 


FE PEELE IAL, CECH art Bes ہے مب جا‎ Bag উনি না TIES IRA STA نے سا ا‎ A .ےس‎ EE BEI ...جس پسہ ...سس‎ পপ পান কসর SI ہے‎ IPED PCE کا جوا وپہرج۔ پور عمرد ے‎ রাত আহার 
সপ 
[ররর یر‎ উপাস্য Fa Ritts বা, ta পিজি مہہ اہ ضر ضس میس وا‎ ২০7০৯ সনি mene! ওত সত্ব سس شش سس ری ہس‎ RTS 


টি 


Position of enclosure.—The enclosure shall, unless this requirement‏ .1ر 
is expresly waived in the licence, be so placed as to be outside the main‏ 
building forming the auditorium and where such auditorium consists of a‏ 
structure of a temporary or non-permanent character the enclosure shall be‏ 
at a distance of not less than 3 feet from such structure. A space of not‏ 
less than 3 feet in width at the sides and in the front of the enclosure and‏ 
a space of 6 feet at the back in which the door is situated shall be kept clear‏ 
all round the enclosure.‏ 


22. Openings in enclosure.—In the front face of the enclosure there 
shall be an opening or porthole for each cinematograph machine in addition 
10 one opening or porthole for observation. The size of the opening or port- 
hole may vary with the type of cinematgryraph machine proposed to be used 
and shall in each case be such as may be determined by the Jicensing 
authority. Hach opening shall be fitted with a screen of fire-resisting 
material capable of being operated both from inside and outside the 
enclosure and such screens shall be sv suspended and arranged that they 
wil] automatically close the openings upon the operating of some suitable 
fusible or mechanical releasing device. 


23. The necessary pipes and cables shall enter through efficiently hushed 
openings. 


24. Temporary enclosure.—If{ a permanent enclosure is not provided, 
the cinematograph machine shall be contained in an enclosure formed of a 
smoke proof box constructed of sheet iron on substantial frame work and 
fustened together securely. The box shall be of sufficient dimensions 0. 
allow the operators to work freely and the floor shall, if boarded, be covered 
with asbestos or other fire-resisting material of sufficient thickness approved 
by the licensing authority. 


25. Combustible materials—No unnecessary combustible material shall 
be allowed within the enclosure and all necessary combustible material, filma, 
etc., except a film which is being passed through the lantern, shall be kept 
in metal boxes suitable for the purpose which shall be placed in an approved 
fireproof box. The latter shall be kept closed at all times except when it 
18 necessary to obtain or replace a film. Only those films which are being 
used at an exhibition shall be kept in the enclosure but in no case shall an 
amount in excess of 200 lbs. be kept at one time in such enclosure, any 
excess being stored, until required, in the place licensed under condition 44. 


20. There shall be no coils of slack electric cable within the enclosure. 
The ‘‘leads’’ to the cinematograph lamps shall, unless conveyed within a 
metal pipe or other suitable casing, be kept well apart both within and 
وہہ‎ the enclosure and so run that the course of each may be readily 
raced, 


27. No electric current at a higher pressure than 230 volts shall be 
used within the enclosure when a cinematograph apparatus is working. 


28. Electric light.—Within the encosure the insulating material of all 
electric cables, including ‘‘leada’’? to lamps in the enclosures, shall be 
covered with fire-resisting material. : 


29. Smoking, ete.—No smoking shall at any time be permitted within 
the enclosure, and no match or candle or other naked light shall be allowed 
in the enclosure. 


1062 THR CAL. GAZ, EXPRY,, AUG, 10, 1956 [Part ] 


সি সস পপ টি সপ eee eee و‎ 
لو مد یں‎ পচা | লি | আট পিপিপি thm dimen ای‎ পান ৬ ہبی مم‎ ৭ - ee ۔مسمچجہ۔ ہے‎ ee 


উদ সর উ ee‏ محسب 


30, Fire precaution tn enclosure.—Two liquid chemical extinguishers. 
two buckets of sund, two buckets of water and a blanket shall be kept inside 
the enclosure. <A large sponge shall be kept in one of the buckets of water. 
One liquid chemical extinguisher shall also be kept immediately outside the 
enclosure. 


31. General precautions in enclosure.—The management and the 
cinematograph operators shall take all due precautions for the preven- 
(101) of accidents und shall abstain from any act whatever which tends to 
cause fire and is not reasonably necessary for the purpose ot the exhibition; 
no unauthorized person ghall be allowed in the enclosure. 


32. Machine.—The cinematograpl machine shall be fixed to the floor 
and shall be preperly bonded and earthed. There shall be shock-proof 
rubber matting round the projector for the protection of the operators 
against electric shocks. 


33. The cinematograph machine shall be provided with a metal shutter 
which can be readily inserted between the source of light and the film gate. 


34. This shutter shall be immediately dropped in the event of any 
accident to the cinematograph machine or stoppage of the film and shall 
only be raised when the film is in motion for the purpose of projection. 


35. Film gate of the machine.—Except where the cinematograph 
machine is equipped with an automatic film gate, the film gate shall be of 
massive construction and provided with ample heat-radiating surface and 
the passage for the film shall be sufficiently narrow to prevent Hume travel- 
ling upwards or downwards from the light opening. 


36. Metal bores.—Except where the cinematograph machine is fitted 
with automatic spools for winding the films, each cinematograph machine 
shall be fitted with two film metal boxes which shall be of substantial 
construction and not more than 14 inches in diameter measured internally. 
The film shall-be made to travel from one box to the other. The boxes shall 
be so constructed as to close in a manner which will prevent the ingress of 


fire. 


37. The cable for the cinematograph machine shall be taken as a 
separate circuit from the source of supply and from the supply side of the 
main fuse to the general lighting circuit on such premises. Efficient 
switches and fuses shall be inserted at the point where the supply is taken, 
and, in addition, an efficient double pole shall be fitted in the cinematograph 
lamp circuit inside the enclosure. 


38. Spools.— Spools shall be chain or gear driven and films shall be so 
wound upon spools that wound film shall not at any time reach or project 
beyond the edges of the flanges of the spool. 


89. Use of acetylene gas prohibited.—Acetylene gas shall not be used in 
cinematograph machinces. 


40. Lighting.—No illuminant other than electric lights shall be used 
in a cinematograph lantern. The choking coils, switches and fuses shall 
be installed in accordance with the wiring rules for the time being issued 
by the Calcutta Fire Assurance Association for electric installations. 


41. Lighting of auditorium.—The general lighting of the auditorium 
anil exits shall not be controlled from within the enclosure. 


Fart I] TH CAL, GAY. UXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 1963 


চিনি পারব life SAAS SEIS S 
গাধা 


پ حسم سپٹ ریس سس سما سو مود سرن جےسیسسمہ ساس خی یہ مہ 


42. Lesistances.—Resistance frames shall be made entirely of (16- 
resisting material and shall be so constructed and maintained that no coil 
or other part shall at any time become unduly heated. All resistances with 
the exception of resistance for film projection purposes, shall be placed 
outside the enclosure and also outside the auditorium. 


43, No ether or other volatile and inflammable liquids shall be employed 
under any circumstances for producing light. 


44, Fulm storaye.—Except as provided in condition 25 no films’ shall be 
kept in any licensed place without a written permit from the licensing 
authority specifying in each case the quantity of films which may be kept, 
the manner in which they are to be stored, the part or parts of the place 
licensed where such storage is permitted and such other particulars as may 
86011) necessary. 


45, Operators.—Not less than two nor more than three operators, duly 
certified and holding certificates valid for the time being, shall be 
permitted in the operating room at any time for the purpose of operating 
the cinematograph machines and no other persons shall be within 10 feet of 
the machine during the exhibition. The whole duty of one of the operators 
shall consist in taking charge of the films after they have passed through 
the machine and that of another, of the machine and of the operating box. 
The person in charge of the cinematograph machine shall be a qualified 
operator, who possesses a certificate showing that he is qualified to operate 
a cinematograph machine, granted by the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, 
or yee District Magistrate of the district in which the cinema house is 
located. 


The certificate referred to shall be issued by the licensing authority on 
ayment of a fee of Rs. 10 and shall be valid for one year unless sooner 
revoked’ by the licensing authority. It shall be renewed regularly at the 
end of that peiord on payment of a fee of Rs. 10 only. Any operator who 
faila to do so within 15 days after the term of his certificate has expired 
shall be required to pay u fine of Rs. 5 only, at the time of its renewal 


A fee of Re. 1 shall be charged for a duplicate or a subsequent copy of 
the certificate. 


The certificate shall be open to inspection by an officer authorised in this 
behalf by the licensing authority in writing while the operator is within 
the operating room. The licensee of the cinema house shall be responsible 
to see that no operators who have no valid certificate get admission into the 
operating room. 


An operator shall not be granted a certificate unless he— 


(1) possesses a working knowledge of cinematograph machines and a 
particular technical knowledge of the type of machine which is 
at the time employed in operating; 


(11) is thoroughly conversant with the municipal bye-laws and other 
rules relating to cinematograph exhibitions and precautions 
against fire; 


(111) is ac ny il with the most speedy and effective methods of dealing 
with fire; 


1964 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 Parr I 


০০০ 


(iv) possesses a fair knowledge of the elements of electric power, 01786 
and alternating current, voltage, amperage, etc., or in the case 
of mufassal operators, a working knowledge of petrol and_ oil 
engines; and 


(v) is proficient in the handling, winding, repairmg and_ efficient 
cleaning of films; 


(v1) is physically fit and has no defect in eye-sight or power of 
hearing. 


46. Secondary lighting.—Secondary lighting shall be provided either by 
installation of the battery-operated system or by castor 011 lamps so as to 
provide a secondary means of illuminating the exit indicators and the 
auditorium. 


47. Every holder of a licence shall have all electrical installations in 
the cinema house regularly attended to by a qualified electrician holding a 
certificate of competency issued by the State Government under rule 48(1) 
of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1937. 


Parr I} THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 1965 


Form || 
Form of temporary licence 
(Rule 10 ) 


THE WEST BENGAL CINEMAS (REGULATION) ACT, 1954. 
(WEST BENGAL ACT XXXIX OF 1954) 


Covernment of West Bengal 


IN Ossicsupeiuenrgeaes 
Shri /Shrimaty (91 wcpiccratsecscnasescnevaretestannsdens ৪৪৪৮ 2 
(00175477555 ny herr er tr orn کر‎ ... within the district of /town 
and suburbs of 0810069...১০১৮০১১১০০০০৭৪০০০, ররর লারা ee ne ee er no is licensed 


under sub-section (4) of section 3 of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regula- 
tion) Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act XXXIX of 1954) to give temporary 


exhibitions by means of a cinematograph for................. vee ا‎ d persons. 


This licence shall remain in 10708 only for............cccccccscsvevecesaceeceves 


This licence is granted subject to the conditions set forth in the Schedule 
annexed to this licence. 


Soeosee ese eseeeeeteategeeereeeseeeaeeeeheeveee vee eeaganes ee 


District Magistrate Of.............cccesescees 


Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. 


Seal 


০০০০০০০০১১১ 
(a) Name of applicant. 


(b) Address. 


1966 THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 {Part I 


তত 


THE SCHEDULE 


Conditions to be attached to a temporary licence issued under the provisions 
of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1954 


1. The licensee shall not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited any film 
other than a film which has been certified as suitable for public exhibition 
by an authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 
1952 (Act XXXVII of 1952), and which, when exhibited, displays the 
prescribed mark of that authority, and has not been altered or tampered 
with in any way since such mark was affixed thereto. 


2. The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited, any film 
which has been certified by the authority constituted under section 3 of the 
Cinematograph Act 1952 (Act XXXVII of 1952), as suitable for public 
exhibition restricted to adults only, to any person who is not an adult, as 
defined in section 2(a) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. 


Note.—This condition shall not be construed as prohibiting the exhibi- 
tion of such film to children below the age of three years. 


3. (1) There shall be prominently exhibited at each public entrance 
whenever the premises are open to the public a notice indicating in tabular 
form and in clear bold letters and figures— 


(a) the title of each film to be shown on that day, other than trailers 
and advertisement films; 


(b) the approximate times of commencement of each such film; 


(c) whether each such film has received an ‘‘A’’ or ‘‘U” certificate from 
the Central Board of 1111) Censors; and 


whether persons below the age of 18 years other than childreu‏ رف 
below the age of 3 years will be admitted or not.‏ 


(2) The nature of any certificate received in respect of a film from the 
Central Board of Film Censors shall be clearly indicated by the letter 
“U” or “A” in any advertisement of the film displayed at the premises. 


4. -The licensee shall not display, or cause to be displayed any pholo- 
graph, picture or poster which depicts or represents or purports to re- 
present a scene or shot which has been excised from any film under the 
orders of the Central Board of Film Censors or the Central Government. 


5. Not more than three shows shall be held, at the place licensed, 
between 2 p.m. and midnight on any week day. 


Outside these hours, t.e., before 2 p.m. or after midnight, no show shall 
be allowed at the licensed place on any week day except with the previous 
permission of the licensing authority obtained in writing at least seven 
days in advance. 


Note.—There will be no restriction on the number of shows on Sundays 
লী سی‎ holidays, provided that no show shall be allowed after mid- 
night. 

6. Display of posters.—No obscene, immodest 01. objectionable 
poster, placard, hoarding or pictorial publicity material shall 
be displayed at the show-windows and lobbies of cinema houses or at any 
other place within the licensed premises. 


7. No loud-speaker or amplifier relaying music or commentary for the 
urpose of attracting customers shall be allowed to be fixed outside the 


icensed premises. 


8. A licence granted under these rules shall not save os hereinafter 
rovided in this condition be transferable and shall be personal for the 
benefit only of the person to whom it is granted. If, however, the pro- 
prietorship of the business to which the licence relates passes diring the 


Part I] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTNY., AUG. 10, 1956 1967 


"period of its validity from the licensee to somebody else by reason of the 
death ot the licensee, the licensing authority may, on receipt of a written 
application in this behalf from the successor in interest of the licenses 
within one month from the date of such transfer of proprietorship, substi- 
tute the name of such successor in the licence us the licensee for the remain- 
ing period of its currency. An application for the renewal of such licence 
shall be dealt with in accordance with the rules. 


9, The licensee shall observe the rules notified by the Government from 
time to time 11) respect of cinematograph shows. 


10. The licensee shall observe the classification of the seats and the 
prices therefor approved by the licensing authority and shall not amend 
or alter the same in any way without the prior approval of the licensing 
authority. 


11. Operators.—Not Jess than two nor more than three operators, duly 
certified and holding certificates valid for the time being, shall be permitted 
in the operating room at any time for the purpose of operating the cinema- 
tograph machines and no other persons shal] be within 10 feet of the machine 
during the exhibition. The whole duty of one of the operators shall consist 
in taking charge of the films after they have passed through the machine and 
that of another, of the machine and of the operating hox. The person in 
charge of the cinematograph machine shall be a qualified operator, who 
possesses a certificate showing that he is qualified to operate a cinematograph 
machine, granted by the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, or the District 
Magistrate of the district in which the cinema house is located. 


The certificate referred to shall be issued by the licensing authority on 
payment of a fee of Rs. 10 and shall be valid for one year unless sooner 
revoked by the licensing authority. It shall be renewed regularly at the 
end of that period on payment of a fee of Rs. 10 only. Any operator who 
fails to do so within 15 days after the term of his certificate has expired 
‘shall be required to pay a fine of Rs. 5 only, at the time of its renewal. 


A fee of Re. 1 shall be charged for a duplicate or a subsequent copy of 
the certificate. 


The certificate shall be open to inspection by an officer authorised in 
this behalf by the licensing authority in writing while the operator is 
within the operating room. The licensee of the cinema house shall be 
responsible to see that no operators who have no valid certificate get admis- 
sion into the operating room. 


An operator shall not be granted a certificate unless he— 


(1) possesses a working knowledge of موم"‎ machines and a 
articular technical knowledge of the type of machine which 1s 
at the time employed in operating; 


(21) is thoroughly conversant with the municipal bye-laws and other 
rules relating to cinematograph exhibitions and precautions 
against fire; 

(111) 18 acquainted with the most speedy and effective methods of deal- 
ing with fire; 

(1৮) possesses a fair knowledge of the elements of electric power, direct 
and alternating current, voltage, amperage, etc., or in the case 
of muffasal operators, a working knowledge of petrol and oil 
engines; and 

(v) is ‘peer ia in the handling, winding, repairing and efficient 
cleaning of films; 


{vi) is physically fit and has no defect in eyesight or power of hearing. 


1968 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 [Parr 1 


ls. No drapery and no unprotected combustible material other than’ 
such material as may compose the floor shall be within 10 feet of the 
cinematograph. 


18. A bucket of sand and two buckets of water shall be placed close to 
the clinematograph. A large sponjye shall be kept in one of the buckets of 
water. 


14. Not more than 200 lbs. of film shall be kept in any place where 
such exhibition is being made, and all such films shall be kept in securely 
closed fire-resisting receptacles. 


16. No exhibition shall be held in a tent or any shelter or structure 
composed of, or covered with combustible materials, or of a movable 
character, unless the cinematograph is operated from outside, and at a 
distance of at least 6 feet from such tent, shelter or structure. 


16. The licensee may shift the venue of the exhibition from place to 
place after giving due intimation of his programme and itinerary in advance 
tw the licensing authority provided that all the rules and safety requirements 
are duly observed. 


Part 1[ THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 1969 


Form 181 


(Rule 14 ) 
Form of licence for a temporary open-air cinema 


THE WEST BENCAL CINEMAS (REGULATION) ACT, 1954 
)۷۷ 87 BENCAL ACT XXXIX OF 1954) 


১টি না 
ممری ویش سأ جک مفسس سب 5۳ ۹۶۶۱۸۸5۰ ۶ت5‎ 00 
18611 রব مشیر تی‎ CL ea eR سس تس مت تفہ تہ‎ নন টিনা within the 
district of /town and suburbs of Calcutta................0.0648 ০, 0 is licensed 


under sub-section (4) of section 3 of the West Bengal Cinemas (ReguJa- 
tion) Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act XX XIX of 1954) to hold temporary exhibi- 


tions in the open-air by means of a cinematograph for...........eese00 persons. 
This licence shall remain in force only 107| ইরা 


This licence is granted subject to the conditions set forth in the Schedule 
annexed to this licence. 


+ 
فو ٭ وو وج © جو و وھ وو و ۃہ٭دواخووو وو وو وو وو وو یےے وو و یجے: ٦٢‏ 


District Magistrate 01801080800 
Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. 


Seal | 


(a) Name of applicant. 
(b) Address. 


1970 THE CAL. GAZ, KXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 [Paxr 1 


ھ7 


THE SCHEDULE 


Conditions to be attached to a licence for a temporary open-air cinema 
issued under the provisions of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) 
Act, 1954. 


1. The licensee shall not exhibit, or permit to be exhibited, any film 
other than a film which has been certified as suitable for public exhibition 
by an authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1962 
(Act XXXVII of 1952), and which, when exhibited, displays the 
prescribed mark of that authority, and has not been altered or tampered 
with in any way since such mark was affixed thereto. 


2, The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited any film which 
has been certified by the authority constituted under section 3 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Act XXXVIT of 1942), as suitable for public 
exhibition restricted to adults only, to any person who is not an adult, as 
defined in section 2(a) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. 


Note.—This condition shall not be construed as prohibiting the exhibi- 
tion of such film to children below the age of three years. 


3. (1) There shall be prominently exhibited at each public entrance 
whenever the premises are open to the public a notice indicating in tabular 
form and in clear bold letters and figures— 


(a) the title of each film to be shown on that day, other than trailers 
and advertisement films; 


(1)) the approximate times of commencement of each such film; 


(c) whether each auch film has received an “۸۶ or ‘'U” certificate from 
the Central Board of Film Censors; and 


(d) whether persons below the age of 18 years other than children 
below the age of 3 years will he admitted or not. 


(2) The nature of any certificate received in respect of a film from the 
Central Board of Film Censors shall be clearly indicated by the letter 
“U” or “A” in any advertisement of the film displayed at the premises. 


4, The licensee shal] not display, or cause to be displayed any photo- 
graph, picture or poster which depicts or represents or purports to re- 
present a scene or shot which has been excised from any film under the 
orders of the Centra] Board of Film Censors or the Central Government. 


5. Not more than three shows shall be held, at the place licensed, 
between 2 p.m. and midnight on any week day. 


Outside these hours, 1.6.) before 2 p.m. or after midnight, no show shall 
be allowed at the licensed place on any week day except with the previous 
permission of the licensing authority obtained in writing at least seven 
days in advance. 


Note.—There will be no restriction on the number of shows on Sundays 
mit public holidays, provided that no show shall be allowed after mid- 
night. 


6. Display of posters.—No obscene, immodest or objectionable poster. 
placard, hoarding or pictorial publicity material shall be displayed at any 
place in the vicinity of the show. 


7. No loud-speaker or amplifier relaying music or commentary for the 
purpose of attracting customers shall be allowed to be used. 7 


[5771] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 1971 


এ. A lieenee granted under these rules shall not save as hereimad ler 
yrovided in this condition, be transferable and shall be personal for the 
benefit only of the person to whom it is granted. If, however, the pro- 
prietorship of the business to which the licence relates passes during the 
period of its validity from the licensee to somebody else by reason of the 
death of the licensee, the licensing authority may, on receipt of a written 
application in this behalf from the successor in interest of the licensee 
within one month from the date of such transfer of proprietorship, substi- 
tute the name of such successor in the licence as the licensee for the remain- 
ing period of its currency. An application for the renewal of such liceuce 
shuli be dealt with in accordance with the rules. 


9, The licensee shall observe the rules notified by the Government from 
119 to time in respect of cinematugraph shows. 


10. The licensee shall observe the classification of the seats and the 
prices therefor approved by the licensing authority and shall not amend 
or alter the same in any way without the prior approval of the licensing 
authority. 


11. Operators.—Not less than two nor more than three operators, duly 
certified and holding certificates valid for the time being, shall be permitted 
in the operating room at any time for the purpose of operating the cinema- 
tograph machines and no other persons shall be within 10 feet of the machine 
during the exhibition. The whole duty of one of the operators shall consist 
in taking charge of the films after they have passed through the machine 
and that of another, of the machine and of the operating box. The person 
in charge of the cinematograph machine shall be a qualified operator, who 
possesses ৪ certificate showing that he ia qualified to operate a cinematograph 
machine, granted by the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, or the District 
Magistrate of the district in which the cinema house is located. 


The certificate referred to shall be issued by the licensing authority on 
payment of a fee of Ks. 10 and shall be valid for one year unless sooner 
revoked by the licensing authority. It shall be renewed regularly at the 
end of that period on payment of a fee of Rs. 10 only. Any operator who 
faila to do so within 15 days after the term of his certificate has expired 
shall be required to pay a fine of 18. 5 only, at the time of its renewal. 


A fee of Re. 1 shall be charged for a duplicate or a subsequent copy 
of the certificate. 


The certificate shall be open to inspection by an officer authorised in 
this behalf by the licensing authority in writing while the operator is 
within the operating room. The licensee of the cinema house shall be 
responsible to see that no operators who have no valid certificate get admis- 
3101) into the operating room. 


An operator shal] not be granted a certificate unless he— 


(1) possesses a working knowledge of cinematograph machines and a 
particular technical knowledge of the type of machine which is 
at the time employed in operating; 


(11) 18 thoroughly conversant with the municipal bye-laws and other 
rules relating to cinematograph exhibitions and precautions 
against fire; 


(01) is acquainted with the most speedy and effective methods of dealing 
with fire; 


1972 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 [Parr I 

১: see rg ےہ‎ te 

(iv) possesses a fair knowledge of the elements of electric power, direct 
and alternating current, volluge, amperage, etc., or in the case 
of muffasal operators, a working knowledge of petrol and oil 
engines; and 

(v) 18 proficient in the handling, winding, repairing and efficient 
cleaning of films; 

(vi) 29 physically fit and has no defect in eyesight or power of hearing. 


لی یم نے یی سس چس سی تس ہو یت مر ہہ ہے 
ies sh দারদা oat arbi dg‏ 


ہم سرت سس سب ‌۔‌سشسىتتے 


ls. No drapery and no unprotected combustible material other than 
such material as may compose the floor shall be within 10 feet of the 
cinematograph. A rope or tin barrier of at least 15 inches by 20 inches 
shall be erected bes the projector and accessories. 


13. <A bucket of sand and two buckets of water shall be placed close to 
the cinematograph. A large sponge shall be kept in one of the buckets of 
water. 


14. Not more than 200 lbs. of film shall be kept in any place where 
such exhibition is being made, and all such films shall be kept in securely 
closed fire-resisting receptacles. 


15. The licensee may shift the venue of the exhibition from place to 
place after giving due intimation of his programme and itinerary 1n advance 
ما‎ the licensing authority provided that all the rules and safety requirements 
are duly observed. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, Secretary. 


Part 1] THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 


Politica] 

ORDER 
No. 6130P.—10th August 1956.—In exercise 
of the power conferred 0 sub-section (2) ০01 


section 8 of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 
1954 (West Bengal Act XXXIX of 1954), the Governor, 
having considered it necessary so to do, is pleased to make 
this order for regulating exhibitions in West Bengal by 
means of cinematograph, other than public exhibitions, and 
to prescribe the following rules and conditions for the 
purpose, namely :— 


THE WEST BENCAL CINEMATOGRAPH 
(RECULATION OF রী EXHIBITIONS) ORDER, 
1956, 


' Rules and conditions 


1. In these rules and conditions, “private cinemato- 
graph exhibition’? meang indoor or open air cinematugraph 
exhibition for which no admission fee of any kind is 
charged and admission to which is restricted by issue of 
jnvitations, tokens or cards, or is restricted to members of a 
particular club, institution or organisation. 


2. Any person desirous of holding a private cinemato- 
graph exhibition expected to be attended by more than 
twenty-five persons at a time shall submit a written appli- 
cation to the Commissioner of Police in Calcutta or the 
District Magistrate elsewhere at least seven days in advance 
for the grant of a licence. The application shall contain the 
following particulars :— 


(a) Name and address of the applicant. 


(b) Name (if any) of the film or general description 
thereof. 


(c) The hour fixed for each show and its duration. 
(d) The venue of the exhibition. 


(9) Whether the venue provides for the safety 
precautions prescribed under condition 6 of the 
Schedule attached to the form of licence for 
private cinematograph exhibition. 


(f) The period for which the licence is required, 
(ج)‎ The purpose of the exhibition. 


(h) The maximum number of invitees proposed to be 
admitted to each show. 


(i) Declaration that the film is certified for unrestricted 
exhibition or for adults only or exempted from 
censorship by the Central Government. 


(j) The name of the producer of the film. 
(k) The country in which the film has been produced. 


Definition. 


Application 


licence. 


1973 


for 


1974 


০৯৫ eel পিউ 


Grant of licence. 


No licence 
required for 
private cinemato- 
graph exhibition 
where the number 
of people attend- 
ing does not 
exceed twenty- 
five. 


THE UAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1956 [Parr 1 


3. (1) On receipt of an application for a private 
cinematograph exhibition, the Commisioner of Police or the 
District Magistrate, as the case may be, may, at his 
discretion, grant to the applicant a licence for such private 
cinematograph exhibition as nearly as possible in the form 
appended to these rules and subject to the conditions set 
forth in the Schedule attached thereto for such period as may 
be considered by him to be necessary for holding the 
exhibition. 


(2) No fee shall be charged for granting such licence. 


4. No licence shall be required for holding any private 
cinematograph exhibition where the number of people 
attending the exhibition at any one time does not exceed 
twenty-five. 


Part I] THE CAL, GAZ. BXTRY., AUG. 10, 6 1975 


পপ পপ ০ eae eee 


FORM OF LICENCE FOR PRIVATE EXHIBITION 


(See rule 3) 
THE WEST BENCAL CINEMAS (REGULATION) ACT, 1954 


In exercise of the power conterred upon the Commisstoner of Police, 
Caloutta/ District 1150181788688,+545 55০55555558 ৯৪৭ 5৪৪৪৭ ৪555৪৮৪৯৪৪5 ৪৯5$ 65 ৪৪৪5 by para- 
graph 3(1) of the rules and conditions issued with the Order under sub-section 
(2) of section 3 of the West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1954 (West 
Bengal Act XX XIX of 1954), licence is hereby granted to بیس (ھ)‎ 
৪৮3())..১,.,১.০০৮*৫৯০২০০০০০৯০১৪৭ رت‎ রা লু within the town and suburbs 
of Caloutta/district ০৫,,১,১১৮০০০০০০১৪০০৭*১ BULROFIOIN 1 81755555555755877798 
to hold a private cinematograph exhibition subject to the conditions set 
forth in the attached Schedule. 


(8) Name of the applicant. 
(b) Address. 


و ووے و وو وا وو واجعو ع اخ وو 8جو وا eta‏ اواب و +٥‏ ھ وو واو ۱ے COOH eee‏ 


Commissioner of Police, Calcutta. 


District Magistrate of........ টির 


1976 “THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 10, 1950: [Parrt 


THE SCHEDULE 
Conditions to be attached to a licence for private exhibitions 


1. This licence shall remuin in force only 10],,১,০,১০০০১০০৪১০০০১০৪০৪০২৩৪০১০ ১০ 
2. No admission fee of any kind shall be charged. 


3. No film which has not been certified by the Central Board of Film 
Censors as suitable for public exhibition or has not been exempted from 
the provisions of section 9 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII af 
1952), shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 


4. No film which has been certified by the Central Board of Film 
Censors as suitable for public exhibition restricted to adults only, shall be 
exhibited or permitted to be exhibited to a person who is not an adult as 
defined in clause (a) of section 2 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII 


of 1952). 


5. The following safety precautions shall be observed in case of 35 m.m. 
cinematograph films سے‎ 


(a) Only non-inflammable films shall be exhibited or permitted to be 
exhibited. 


(b) No drapery and no combustible material, other than such material 
as may compose the floor, shall be within six feet of the 


cinematograph. 

(c) A bucket of sand and two buckets of water shall be placed close 
to the cinematograph and a large sponge shall be kept in one 
of the buckets of water. ا‎ 


(d) Not more than 200 Ibs. of film shall be kept in any place where 
such exhibition is being made, and all such films shall be kept 
in securely closed fire resisting receptacles. 


(e) No exhibition shall be held in a tent or any shelter or structure 
composed of, or covered with, combustible material or of a 
movable character, unless the cinematograph is operated from 
outside and at a distance of at least 6 feet from such structure. 


6. The licensee may shift the venue of the exhibition from place to 
place after giving due intimation of his programme and itinerary in advance 
to the licensing authority provided that all the rules and safety require- 
ments are duly observed. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West be pgal. 


at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore, on the 10th August 1956. 


Registered No. C207 No. 40001) 


I) A 
+t oY 


یھ ~~ 

LIS LHS. 
وب‎ - 
.جح‎ সপ এটি পট 


ےد ہم . 
ای ৬৯ ৯‏ 


۲ 
Mi a» 
@ 
7 و‎ 
Ce NY 
A 
1 


a 


~ 
.> ہس 


Calrutta Gazette 


J 
7 ai : : » 
পরপর ০ 9 ہیں‎ 
॥ WV? 0 
: কহ] 1 ۱ ۱ 
7 ار‎ : 
و سم سد دی‎ 0 
চি Ls : 


5 
a 0 ۹ 
مدووووہً٭‎ 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


سمہوژجممسلم GIS‏ ممحیجہ ہوم 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. a 


Government of West Bengal 
FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
Budget 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 15140-F.B. 
Calcutta, the 10th ‘Auaust 1956 


Subscriptions for an issue of 4 per cent. West Bengal Loan, 1968 


1. Object.—The proceeds of the loan will be utilised towards 
meeting the capital expenditure on certain development schemes 
included in the Second Five-Year Plan of the State, viz., 
(i) Development of State Roads, (#2) Durgapur Coke-Oven, Gas- 
Grid and Power Plant Project, (871) Kangsabati Reservoir Project, 
i State Transport Service, (9 Electricity schemes, and 
vt) Slum Clearance, Housing and Industrial schemes. All the 
schemes except scheme No. (7) are fully productive. Against 
scheme No. (7), however, a considerable revenue is derived from 
Motor Vehicles Tax and Motor Spirits Sales Tax which provides a 
complete basis of repayment. 


2. Security for loan.—In accordance with Article 293(1) of 
the Constitution of India, the*loan will be secured on the whole of 
the Consolidated Fund of the Government of West Bengal. 


The consent of the Central Government has been obtained 66 
the floatation of this loan as required by Article 293(3) of the 
Constitution of India. 


8. Description.—The loan will be briefly described as the 4 per 
cent. West Bengal Loan, 1968. 


4, Amount of issue.—The amount of the loan will be Rs.700 
lalchs. 


5. Issue price.—The issue price will be Rs.100 for every 
Rs.100 of the loan applied for. 


1977 


1978 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 10, 1956 [Parr 1 


ঢু 
۴ 
TS PL. چس‎ ও পপ হি উস Dl FECTED 
ok w 1 ھا‎ * 


6. Subscriptions.—Subscriptions will be received" from 3rd 
September 1946 to 10th September 1956, both days:inclusive. Sub- 
scriptions WHl be in the form of cash/cheque. The loan will be 
closed without notice as 90088 as it appears that the*total subscrip- 
tions amount approximately to Rs.700 Jakhs and in any case nof 
later than the close of business on 10th September 1956. ‘Lhe 
Government feserves the right to retain-subscriptions received up 
o ten per cént. m excess of the sum of Rs.700 lakhs. 


দস 

7., Partial allotment.—If the total subscriptions exceed the 
amounts mentioned in paragraph 6 above, partial allotment will be 
made. 14 partial allotment is made, the balance of the sum paid 
at, the time of application will be refunded as soon as possible after 
91109080910. No interest will be paid on the amounts so refunded. 


8. Date of repayment.—The loan will have a currency of 
twelve years trom 3rd September 1956 and will be repaid at par on 
3rd September 1968. 


9. Interest.—The loan will bear interest at the rate of 4 per 
cent. per annum from 38rd September 1956. Interest will be pay- 
able half-yearly on 3rd March and 3rd September and will be 
subject to 10600005-58۰ 

Refunds of income-tax will be obtainable by holders of the loan 
who are not liable to income-tax or who are liable to income-tax at 
a lower rate. An individual holder can also obtain on application 
a certificate from the Income-tax Officer of the district authorising 
deduction of income-tax at the rate applicable in his case when 
tax will be deducted at that rate instead of at the maximum rate. 


10. Place ot payment of interest.—Interest will be paid at 
any treasury or sub-treasury in the State of West Bengal and at the 
Public Debt Offices at Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi, Madras and 
Bangalore. 


11. Form of securities.—The loan will be issued in the form 
of— 
(1) Stock, the applicants for which will be given Stock 
Certificates, or 


" (2) Promissory Notes. 


If no preference is stated by the applicants, the securities will be 
issued in the form of Promissory Notes which are transferable by 
endorsement. 


The Promissory Notes will be in denominations of Rs.100, 
Rs.500, Rs.1,000, Rs.5,000, Rs.10,000, Rs.25,000, Rs.50,000 and 
Rs.1,00,000. 


12. Applications for loan.—(1) Applications for the loan must 
be for 116.100 or for a multiple of that sum. 


(2) Applications will be .received at— 


(2) the offices. of the Reserve Bank of India,-Calcutta, Bombay, 
۔‎ Delhi, Madras and Bangalore, 


(5) the brancheg and ser? pay offices of the State Bank of 
India located in the State of West Bengal. .— 


(3) Applications may be made in the, ferm attached hereto 
[printéd copies of which are available at the places mentioned in 
sub-paragraph (2) above | or in -any other form which states clearly 
the amount and description of thé+securities required, ‘the full 
name and address of the applicant and the Public Debt Office or 
treasury or suh-treasury at which he desires that’ interest shall be 
paid. 


Paat 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 10, 1986 


13. Method of paying subscriptions.—Applications should be 
accompanied by*the necessary payment either in 07 : cheque 
uld 


for the amount of the loan applied for. Cheques should be made 
ayable to the’ Reserve Bank of India‘ or the State Bank of India, 
ও the case may be. 


When a cheque is tendgred in payment of the applitation money, 
the security will not be issued until the amount of the cheque has 
been realised. 


14. Brokerage.—Brokerage will be paid at the rate~of cne- 
eighth per cent. to recognised banks and brokers on allotments made 
in respect of applications for the loan hearing their stamp. 


15. Depreciation Fund.—The Government of West Bengal 
will provide in each financial year from 1957-58 to 1967-68 inclusive, 
a sum equal to 14 per cent. of the total nominal amount of the loan 
to be used for purchasing the securities of the Joan for carttellation. 


16. Sinking Fund.—The Government of West Bengal will also 
make such annual contributions to a Sinking Fund to he utilised 
for the repayment of this loan on 3rd September 1968 ag they may 
from time to time decide to be necessary. 


17. Public Debt Officea—The State Public Debt Office will be 
located at the Public Debt Office, Calcutta. 


By order of the Governor, 


B. DAS GUPTA, 
Secretary to the Government of West Bengal. 


1980 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 10, 1956 [Parr I 


a ent ee 
FORM OF APPLICATION 


4 per cent. West Bengal Loan, 1968 


পন 24752757525 শর রর 
ا ا رر ر۰ رت ےۓر رنڈ نک و ریس رد ر رقف‎ ৪৩৪৪৬ +مه ھم‎ ৩৪৩৩৩ ৪%৬ ৬ ee গুড় উড ও ৪ ৬৪৪৬৬৪৪৪৯৪৪ ৬৪৩৪ Teer 
herewith tender cash/cheque for rupees*...........- کسی سر‎ 22528 0 & 


৯০৪৪৪৪৪৪৬১৪ ৪৮৩৪৬৩৪৬৪৩৪৪৪৪০৬৬উ৪৪৬৪৬১৪ ৬৩৪০৬৪৪৩৬৪৪ ৩০৪৩৪৩৯৪৪$৬৬ ৪ ৪৪ 9৪৪৪৪ ee ৩৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৪৬৪ ھ و ھ *٭‎ ৩ ৪৪৩৪৪ ৪৪৪৪৪৬৪৪৪৪6 مھ‎ 


and request that securities of the 4 per cent. West Bengal Loan, 1968, of the 


nominal value of 19,,,,১০১০১১০০০০০০০ 0+01 ....may be issued to me/us in the 
form of tPromissory Note(s) of the denominations stated below/Stock 


Certificate :— 


Notes Of (84০০০4৮5০৮০ ce soses ee ৪৪5৯ sees @OCR,‏ 7030318607۷۴" میوہمریعمیء دی مم 


each.‏ .. مروف se ৪৪৮৪5 ৬4‏ یویب انال OF‏ ۹0168 ۳7067018807۷ مووٗیمسسوییے 


...each.‏ بنوی ا Promissory Notes of 18,.,,১১০০১০১১৯ ০৩৪ ০০০০৪‏ ۷۷۳7ی 
0 سپ ہ8۴۰۰ I/We desire that interest be paid‏ .2 
varies ৪2225825275‏ وٗومصمبییوتیی ০১১১ os sos‏ 

হি‏ 77 57177437757 ے سی 

১811, سے‎ রর রান রন یس ہہ‎ নান 


$ ৪৫৪০৬৪৪৪৫৪৪ + وج ٭وم و ہج‎ ৩6৪২৩৪০৪৩৪৭ ৪টিছ ৪৩৩৪৩৪৪৪৪৪৩ ৩ ৮5666৪62666 8866৬৬ 


The September 1956. 


Note.—Separate application should be made for each form of scrip (Stook Certificate or 
Promissory Note) of the new loan required. 


*Figures and words to be written here. 


+Promissory Notes will be issued in denominations of Rs.100, Rs.500, Rs.1,000, Rs.5,000, 
Ra.10,000, Re.25,000, Re.50,000 and Re.1,00,000. State here the particular denominations 
eat یس‎ 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing West Bengal, ৬ 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore, on the 10th August 10956, 


Registered No. C207 No. 401(1} 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


BRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1956 


এ বাটনে হতাহত OTITIS ہے‎ 85 


PART হবি and Notifications by the Governor cf West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


Constitution and Elections 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 2476A.R.—l0th August 1956.—The follow- 
ing notification by the Secretary to the Governor 
of West Bengal is hereby published for general 
infermation :— 


“NOTIFICATION 


No. 26778S.—9th August 1956.—The Governor‏ ٭ 
has assented to the West Bengal Local Bodies‏ 
ine Offences and Muscellaneous Provisions)‏ و سس 
Amendment) Bill, 1956.‏ 


1৮ R. SINHA, 
Secretary to the Governor’’ 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by by the Supermtendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
_ at (০৩৬ Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, an the 10th August 8956, 


1981 


Registered No. C207 


২ 
+ 


6 
: : 
$ 
۸ ہہ , 
৪4‏ 
ay 4‏ 5 
ক) 8.৯.‏ 
ج কপ‏ ا 
و ہا 
پا72 লি‏ 
.9 
i‏ : 
4 
* 
مد ٠‏ . 
۰ ۹ه 'ھ 
۹ 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


No. 402(111) 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1956 


۰ پوود‎ ee a ےےھہموىسسو-سمسمجےموکویکڑج+ووفمےمممسسم٤سجممسسومم‎ 
দা mi সি সত এও হাহাহাহা হরর 


No. 19671,.—10th August, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Le 
assented to by the Governor, is hereby published for general information :— 


81701 title, 


Amend- 
ment of 
section 2 of 
Weat Ben. 
Act X of 
1952. 


Amond.- 
ment of 
section 6, 


Amonde 
ment of 
section 7. 


PART III—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 


Legislative Department 
NOTIFICATION 


West Bengal Act XXIV of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL LOCAL BODIES (ELECTORAL 
OFFENCES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS) 
(AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956. 


[Passed by the West Bengal Legtslature. | 


[Aseent of the Governor was first published in the Calcutta Gazette, 
Extraordinary, of the 10th August, 1956.) 


An Act to amend the West Bengal Local Bodies (Electoral 
Offences and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1952. 


WHueEnEas it is expedient to amend the West Bengal Local 
Bodies (Electoral Offences and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 
1952, for the purposes and in the manner hereinafter 
appearing ; 

It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows:— 


1. This Act may be called the West Bengal Local 
Bodies (Electoral Offences and Miscellaneous Provisions) 
(Amendment) Act, 1956. 


2. In clause (a) of section 2 of the West Bengal Local 
Bodies (Electoral Offences and Miscellaneous Provisions) 
Act, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), after the 
words ‘‘under the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951”’ the words 
‘for an election to fill a seat of a Councillor of the Municipal 
Corporation of Chandernagore under the Chandernagore 
Municipal Act, 1955 ’’ shall be inserted. 


3. In sub-section (J ) of section 6 of the said Act, after 
the words ‘‘poll is taken’’ the words ‘‘for an election’’ shall 
be inserted. 


4 In sub-section (4 ) of section 7 of the said Act, after 
the words ‘‘poll is taken’ the words ‘‘for an election’’ shall 


be inserted. 


1983 


Weat Hen. 
Act X of 
1952 


West Ben. 
Act XVIII 
of 1955, 


gislature, having been 


1984 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 10, 1956 (Parr III 


The West Bengal. Local Hydies (Electoral Offences and 
Miscellaneous Provisions), 78 Act, 1956. 


(Sections < 6.) 


Amend- 5 In sub-section (1) of section 8 of the said Act, after 

ane a ‘the words ‘‘for the poll’ the words ‘‘for an election” shall 

০ be inserted. 

Amend- 6. In clause (4) ‘of sub-section (2) of section, 13 of the 

er ot suid Act, after the wards “understhe Bengal Municipal Act, West Be 

section 5ا‎ 1932 ৮, the words ‘‘or under the Chandernagore Municipal Act 17 
Act, 1955 57 shall be inserted. of 1955. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. K. D. GUPTA, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at Weet Hengal Government Press, Alipore, on the 10th August, 1956. 


registered No, C207 No. 1 


Extraordinary” 
Published by Authority 


اس حجیمسحح' 


کت 


“gE En EE ٠سس رآ‎ wt سے‎ ap 
0و رس مم ریو‎ ee eee ee ie ena ed 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, 1956 


ART I-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Wes! 
Bengal, the High Court, Government ‘Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
DECLARATION 


Burdwan.—No. 14108],.A.—l0th August 106, 
Whereas the functions of the Central Govern. 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894),!in relation to the acquisition of Jand for. the 
purposes of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
State (rovernment by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Tudl(1y, dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
(tovernment of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for the Durgapur Steel Project, 


1985 


198 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, {Pay 
AUGUST 10, 1956 


৬৩ রে 


in the village of Punabad, jurisdiction list No. 69, 
{hana Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, district 
Burdwan, it is hereby declared that some pieces 
of land in 5 1” 6 0] me survey 
১1067 Nod. 4, 23, 64, 8, 93, 133, 28, 139, 
207, 212. 213, 273; 368, 312, 330, 382, 383. 
২389, 897, 411, 419, 420, 422, 427, 497, 574, 
604, 646, 699, 701, 715, 717 to 780, 731 
to 755, 757, 759 to 791, 808, 825, 826, 
834, 856, 881, 987, 988, 944, 949 to 951, 
N57 to 964, 998, 1035, 1097 to 1099, 1143. 
ہ1180‎ 1164, 1199, 1268 to 1266, 1286, 1287, 
1296, 13804, 1805, 1808 to 13813, 1489, 1354 
and 1381, and parts of cadastral survey plots 
Nog, 794, 824, 1286, 1816) 1291), 1333 ond 
1440 and measuring, more or Jess, 94.52 acres, are 
needed for thé afdresaid public purpose at the 
publir expense within the aforesaid village of 
Punabad. 


This declaration is thade, tinder the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), read with the said notification, to all whom 
it may concern. 


/ 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, as 
vell asin that of the Administrator, Durgapur Steel 
Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


By order of the Governor, 

| ও. N. MITRA, 
Special Officer and Dy. Secy. to the 

(tovt. of West Bengal. 


Prnated and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Benga 
at Weat Benyal Govt. Preas, Alipore, on the 10th August 4 


Registered No. C207 No. 404(1: 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 158, 1956 


জর) 


ےم 


JI—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West‏ ہی۸ 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc.‏ 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 2516A.R.—13th August 1956.—The follow- 
ing notification by the Secretary to the Governor 
of West) Bengal is hereby published for yveneral 


information :— 
‘“‘NOTIFICATION 
No. 2701S.—llth August 1956.—The President 


has assented to the West Bengal Land (Requisition 
and Acquisition) (Amendment) Bill, 1956. 


P. R. SINHA, 
Secretary to the Governor’’. 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Supermtendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, 
— at Weat gal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 13th August ۰ 


1987 


+ Registered No. C207 No. 405011) 


021 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 1956 


PART IIJ—Acts of the West Bengal Legislature 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENCAL 
Legislative Department 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 1970L.—138th August, 1956.—The following Act of the West Bengal Legislature, having been 
assented to by the President, is hereby published for general information :— 


West Bengal Act XXV of 1956 


THE WEST BENCAL LAND (REQUISITION AND 
ACQUISITION) (AMENDMENT) ACT, 1956. 


[Passed by the West Bengal Legislature. ] 


[Aseent of the President was firat published in the Calcutta Gazette, 
Extraordinary, of the 13th August, 1966.] 


An Act to amend the West Bengal Land (Requisition and 
Acquisition) Act, 1948. 


WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the West Bengal Land west Ben. 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, for the purpose and Act II of 
in the manner hereinafter appearing; 1948. 


It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic 
of India, by the Legislature of West Bengal, as follows:— 


Short title. 1. This Act may be called the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1956. 


Insertion 2. After section 5 of the West Bengal Land (Requisi- 
rs mem ne tion and Acquisition) Act, 1948, the following section shall 
West Ben, be inserted, namely :— 

Act II of “Exclusion ہ‎ 5A. In making an order under sub- 
1048. -  mines,eto. section (4) of section 3 or in publishing 


a notice under sub-section (Ja) of 
section 4, the State Government may mention in the order 
or the notice that mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other 
minerals lying under the land or any particular portion of 
the land are not needed and thereupon reference to the land 
shall be construed هد‎ excluding such mines or minerals.’’. 


By order of the Governor, 


১. K. D. GUPTA, 


Secy. to tha Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 13th August, 1956. 


1989 


Registered No. C207 No. 406(1) 


008 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 1956. 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT the Representation of the People (Preparation of 
eee را‎ Rules, 1956, the eat haan 18 

8 , pleased to authorise the officers specified in column 
Constitution and Elections 1 of the table below to be the officers who may 
NOTIFICATION appoint any person as the Additional Revising 


Authority in respect of the Assembly constituencies 
No. 2615A.R.—13th August 1966.—In exercise or parts thereof specified in the corresponding 


of the power conferred by clause (1) of rule 2148 of entries in column 2 of the said table:— 
The Table. 
1 2 
Officer. Constituency or part thereof. 


1. District Magistrate or Deputy Commissioner, Al] Assembly constituencies or parts thereof 
as the case may be, of every district except the included in the district. 
24-Parganas district 


2. District Magistrate of the 24-Parganas district All Assembly constituencies or parts thereof 
included in the 24-Parganas district except the 
constituencies کو‎ in the entry in column 2 
against “Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta’’. 


8. Chief Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta All Assembly constituencies specified under the 
heading “Calcutta District”? and bearing serial 
numbers 118 to 142 in the Final Order No. 24 
of the Delimitation Commission, India, relating 
to West Bengal. 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 13th August, 1956. 


1991 


Registered No. C207 


Calcutta 


No. 40701) 


Pat] 


Gazetiv . 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 1956 


পপ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


DECLARATIONS. 


Burdwan.—No. 14278L.A.—I13th August 1956. 
—Whiereags the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Lund Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/ 
bdJudl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by 
the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that 
1800 is needed for a public purpose, heing a pur- 
pose of the Union, namely, for the Township 
in connection with the Durgapur Steel Project, 
in the village of Chak নি jurisdiction 
list No, 45, thana ام جم‎ pargana Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby declared that a 
piece of land in Block “A’’ comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nas. 1 to 16, 17 to 44 and 47 to 58, 
and measuring, more or less, 298.02 acres, is 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
ublic expense within the aforesaid village of 
thakgopaldebpur. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
011০9 of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgwpur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


1993 


Burdwan.—No. 142821..A.—13th August 6۰ 
—Whoereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), iv relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted. to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/ 
ddJudl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India: 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur Steel 
Project in the village of Banagram, jurisdiction 
hist No. 73, thana Faridpur pargana Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it fs hereby declared that some 
pieces of land in Block “A/1’’ comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 1, 4, 70, 72, 108, 114, 161, 177, 
235 236, 261, 277, 320, 338 to 340, 361 to 364, 
399 to 362, 367, 404 to 422, 424 to 445, 449 to 
487, 497 to 499, 501 to 507, 514, 515, 526, 527, 
621, 639, 640, 642, 643, 694, 699, 715, 717 to 
735, T37 to 740, 747, 748 and 750, and parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 516, 577, 661 and 684, 
and measuring, more or less, 59.26 acres, are 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
pubhe expense within the aforesaid village of 
Banagram. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the and Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspeeted in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, district 
Burdwan. 


ERRATUM 


Burdwan.—No. 142800,.A.—13th August 1956.—- 
In declaration No. 69541L.A., dated the 24th Mareh 
1956, under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1 of 1894, published at pages 509-510, Part I of 


1994 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 13, 1956 [Parr I 


the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the Read the figure “850” for the figure 3” 
24th March 1956, im respect of the proposed in line 21. 

nequisition of land required for the Durgapur 
Steel Project in the village of Banagram (Block Read the figure ‘263.20’ for the figure 


“A’’), police-station Faridpur, district Burdwan— 255.99" in line 31 


Insert the figure ‘423” in between the figures 8 
4001 and “446” in line 21; 


Insert the figure “500’’ in between the figures by onder of the Governor, 
496” and “508” in line 22;. S. N. MITRA, 

Read the figure “278” for the figure “279° in Special Oficer and Dy. Secy. to the 
line 20; Govt. of West Bengal. 


১০১১১১১১00১ SSS SS PS GSS hs psoas sRisSNONNRSE NN 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 18th August 1956, 


Registerad No. C207 Now 4080) 


Che 


be দুরে 


£) 
وہ ود‎ , a: : sf A" a. 
BRS ٢ 3 ۳ ‘Ae. ۶ 
RY 18১ ۹ vi i 


| اتا‎ a 
Caleutta رر‎ 

59 
অই পট 
Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


Gazette 


MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 1056 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, ete. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATION 


Burdwan.—No, 14290L.A.—l3th August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is Kkel¥ to be needed for a public punpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower 
Basd Nos. 282A and 283A of Kalipahari-Burdwan 
section 192 K. V. Transmission line in connection 
with the promotion and operation of scheme for 
the generation, transmission and distribution of 
electric energy in the village of Sanko, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 154, thana- Galsi, district Burdwan, 


1986. 


1996 THE CALOUITA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Past] 


AUGUST 13, 1956 


পা 


it is hereby 10011966001)9% pieces of land comprising 
part of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1800 and 2130 
and altogether measuring, more or less, .0412 of 
an acre, are likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the, expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesaid village of 


Sanko. 


This notification 28 made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 


concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damo- 


dar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section the Governor 1s pleased to 
authorise the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and work- 
men, to enter upon and survey the land and do 
all other acts required or permitted by that 


section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as- 
amended by Act XXXVITI of 1925, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 


5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 


Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., W 


Bengal, at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 13th August 


est 
1956, 


| 


Legistered No. C207 Ne. ” |) 


+ 


- 
১১ 
: 
7 ¥ 
a 


9% سر ہیں 
৮875 ঠ..‏ 4 7 
ae‏ 8 
সা ৭‏ 
১1510:‏ 
if‏ + 
۹ ۱ } 
)٠‏ پل 
سوا 


لق 


بن 


Extraordt nary 
Published by Authority 


لی۔ سے 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 14, 1956 


nn a a ner Teen aa rv ve | 


ART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of 9۷ ءم‎ 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTICE 


Birbhum. — No. 1 4::321 48075১5৮৮৬১), — 14th 
August 1956.—Whereas 12.69 acres, more or 
less, of land situated in or near the villages of 
Salan and another described below have been 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of 
the West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisi- 
lion) Act, 1948, by the person authorised under 
the said section 3(1) for the purpose of providing 
facilities for irrigation and drainage, namely, for 
construction of  Distributary No. 3, Ex. 
Rakreswar Kopai Branch Canal in_ connection 
with the Mavurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gover- 
nor acquires such lund being required for a pub- 
lic purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provision of sub- 
rection (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 


1097 


1998 গলদ CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, (৯ 
AUGUST 14, 1966. 


শি চির 


Bengal Act IT of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the | 
ctlice of the Special Land Acywyuisition Collector, 
Birbhum. ° 

Description of the land 


Mauza Salan, jurisdiction list No. 8, 1১105 - 
station Bolpur, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—ts76 and 677. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—497T, 6F4, 67, 
678, 679, G85, 687, 688. 697, 698, ose oe ۷28, 
730, 791, 182, 868, 869, 871, 872, S74, 875, 877, 
1671, 1706, 1707, 1708, 1709, 1710, YT21, 122 
1728, 1724, 1728, 1729, 1730, 1779, 1780, 1۰ 
1783, 1805, 1806, 1807, 1808, 1809, 1815, 1821, 
1822, 1823, 1825, 1826, 1827, 1828, 1829, 1830, 
L874, 1875, 1876, 71877, 1878, 18945 and 1896. 
Mauza Boral, jurisdiction list No. 9, police- 

station Bolpur, district Birbhum, 


Cadastral survey plots in part—-125, 126, 1389, 
140, 141, 142, 148, 150, 151, 152, 1543, 241, 242, 
243, 248, 249, 254, 265, 284, 285, 290, 291, 292. 
293, 294, 295, 296, 352, 353 and 354. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengat. 


ia A a এ উন বানি রন কল নি সি সর a a 
Printed and published by the Superintendent. Govt. 7৮2০ Weat Benga! 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 14th August 1956. 


Registered No. 0207. 


02 


No. 33 of 1956 


(82115 


Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


03-3 "SZ 


The undermentioned Extraordinary issues of the “Calcutta Gazette” were published 
up to 4th August 1956 


[8896 No. 


36900) .. 


+ 


370(L) ہہ‎ 


$ 


0 
87101) * 


81208 ১, 


830) .. 


SU. 
8700) و‎ 
876(IIZ) ,, 


87701) oe 


878(I) *« 


890) . 


1 


Order/Notification/Declara- 
tion No. and date, 


No.  3136Dis./D/11L-381/55, 
dated the 18th July 1956. 


No. P.H.2769/2R-39/56, dated 
the 28th July 1956. 


No. 2347A.R., dated the 30th 
July 1956. 


No. 1809L., dated the 30th July 
1956. 


No, 8018Edn./8B-57/54, dated 
the 30th July 19656. 


No. 13482L.A., dated the 30th 
July 1956. 


No, 2370A.R., dated the 14 
July 1966. 


No. 1816L., dated the 9186 July 
1966, 


Nos. 1658-1650F.T,, dated the 
lat August 1958. 


No. 5843P., dated the 2186 July 
1956, 


No, P.H.12802/2R-38/56, dated 
the 30th July 1966. 


۴ 


Department. 


Labour an ae 


Medical and Public Health 


Home (Constitution and 
Elections.) 
Legislative oe 7 
Education 


Land and Land Revenue .. 


Home (Constitution and 
Elections.) 
Legislative জজ om 
Finance (Taxation) a 
Home (Political) we 
او‎ 
Health 7 7 


Subject. 


Award in respect of industrial dispute 
between Marwari 19191 Society and 
their workmen. 


Temporary regulations for the preven- 
tion and control of amall-pox in the 
municipal area of 


Berhampore, 
Murshidabad. 


Governor's assent to the West Bengal 
Bargadars Bill, 1956. 


Weat Bengal Act XIX of 1956 so 


Extending the ee of supersession 
order under West Ben. Act XXII of 
1954, published with notification ‘No. 
3609Edn., dated the 12th May 1984, 


under West Ben. Ord. IIT of 1954, 


up to 3186 October 1956. 


Aeppisition of land in Burdwan district 


} 


Governor's assent to the West Bengal 
Taxes on Entry of Goods in Local 
Areas (Amendment) Bill, 1956. 


West Bengal Act XX of 1956 on 


Some commodities, ified therein, 
liable to taxation under Ben. Aot VI 
“of 1941, taxed under West Ben. Act ۷ 
of 1954 and 61081651778 ea quantity 
worth Re. 60 under the West Bengal 
Salee Tax Bulés, 1954, for the pur 
af ka 6(¢) of rule 14 of the eaid 
ules, ۱ : 


Some places 09018108৭59 protected places 
ugder Weat Bon. Act XIX of 105 
aud réons authoriséd to gran 
perntission thereftr. 


Temporary regulation for the prevention 
and eantrol of cholera in the district 
of Bankura. $ 


¥ 


Pages. 


1803-1809 


"181121817 


1819 
1821-1822 
1823-1824 


7 
«et 


% 


3ت 


1826-1626 


1827 


1820 


1881] 


1883-1884 


1835-1842 


৪:09 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUYUST 16, 1956 


Issue No. Order/Netification/Declaration 
“Wo. and date. 
$80(I) .. No. 13546L.A. and 3 others, 


dated the lst August 1956. 


381(VI) .. 


$82(BA) .. No. 29/10/56, dated the 27th 
July 1956. 


883(I) .. Nos. 2404-2405A.R., dated the Home (Constitution 
2nd August 1956. Elections). 
ay 
884(III).. Wo. 1829-L., dated the 2nd Legislative 7 
August, 1956. 
385(III).. Ne. 78281, dated the 2nd Ditto .. 


August, 1956. 


886110 1 .. No, 13682L.A, and 5 others, 
dated the 2nd August 1956. 

88717 No. 3354Dia, /D/11L-95/56, 
dated the lst August 1956. 

38Q{1A) .. No. 429/10/56(1), dated the 
29th July 1956. 

28900) مم‎ Nos. 2138-2139H.J., dated the 
4th August 1956. 

89007) .. No. 13794L.A. and another, 


dated the 4th August 1956. 


Lok Sabha 


Department. 


Labour 


Home (Jails) . 


Land and Land Revenue ,. 


ee 


Election Commission, India 


Land and Land Revenue .. 


Election Commission, India 


* 


Land and Land Revenue .. 


818৮৮, 


Acquisition of lamd in 24-Parganas and 
Burdwan districta. 


The States Reorganisation Act, 1956 ..‏ مہ 


Claims and objections in respect of the 
electoral rolls for all the constituencies 
comprised within the State of Wost 
Bengal are to be mado within 14th 
August 6۰ 

and Governor's assent to the West Bengal 
Cement Control] (Amendment) Bill, 
1956 and the West Bengal Develop- 
0 Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 

956. 


West Bengal Act XXII of 1956 7 
۴۷١۸٢ Bengal Act XXI of 1956 


Cancelling so much of notifications as 
relate to pieces of land, described 
therem, and withdrawing from acquigi- 
tion of land declared for acquisition 
in Hooghly district. 


Award in sas of industrial dispute 
between essrs. Western India 
Theatres, Ltd., and another and their 
employees, 


Amendment in their notification No. 
429/10/56(1), dated the 22nd May 1956. 


.. Empowering the Inspoctor-General of 
Prisons, West Bengal, to release 
prisoners temporarily under Act III of 
1900 ; and the West Bengal Prisoners 
(Temporary Release) Rules, 1956, 
made under the said Act. 


Cancelling so much of a notification as 
relates to pieces of land in Hooghly 
district, described therein, and acyuisi- 
tion of land in Burdwan district, 


Pages. 


1843-1844 


1846-1905 


1907 


ا 
0 1100 


1911-1912 


18 


1618-19168 


1917-1920 


1921 


1923-1928 


1931-1932 


————————————————————————EE—e————————————————————————————————————————— i 


PART’L,-Orders and notifications by the 
Governor of West Bongal, the High Court, 
Government Treasury, ete. ee 3ھ‎ 


PART IA.—Orders and notifications of the 
Government of India, Statutory notifications 
of the Election Comntission, India, and other 
Election notifications published for general 
information. Orders and notifications which 
have originally been published in the “Gazette 
of India” aré only republished -7 


PART 1 امصمنامەں170٭.‎ Notices ১৭ 
PART II.—Advertisemente, notices .. 7 


PART IIL—Acts of the West Bengal Legisla- 


ture ৬৬ ee ee ee 
PART .—Ordinances promulgstéd, by the 
Gov of West Bengal کو‎ the নিল 
tution of India oe C ee 


PART IVA.—Bills introduced im the Weat 
Bengal Legislative Assembly: ‘Reports of 
Select Committees presented or to be 

ted to that Assembly; and Bills pub- 
before introduction in that Assembly 


7 


CONTENTS: 
Pago. 
PART IVB.—Bills introduced in the West 
Bengal Legislative Oounoil; Reporta of 
3101—3170 Select Committees presented or to be 
resented to that Council; and Bills published 
fore introduction in that Council in 
PART V.—Acta of the Parliament of India 
easonted to by the Prosident and Ordinances 
promulgated by the President— 
317-0 
The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 
465-2 1956 ee ক ৪ ৪ ৩ 
375—384 PART VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of 
India; Reports of Sclect Committees presented 
to Parliament; and Bills published before 
Nil introduction in Parhamont ٠ 
; ۱ 
Nil SUPPLEMENT No. 338— 


Ni 


Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West 
Bengal for the week ending the 2nd August 
1956 اضف‎ se ذف‎ es 

Caloutta Improvement Trust. Notice oe 


a 


Page. 


Nil 


220---284 


5138—514 
515-—-516 


a ™ 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


381۰8 ۱ 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


সাধারণ শাপন। 
General Administration 
নং ৩০৪৫জ,এ। 
No. 3045G.A. 
নিয়োগ ও ۱ 
Appointments. and Transfers. 
সাধারণ'। 
General. 


মোদনীপ;র-বর্ধমান।_নং ২৯২৪ জি,এ।১এল-২৫।৫৬।--৩রা আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ ।--মোদিনশপপুরের জেলা ও দায়রা বিচারক শ্রী এস, কে, নিয়োগণ 
গুূনরাদেশ পর্যল্ত বর্ধমান জেলার জেলা ও দায়রা বিচারক fay 

Widnapore-Burdwan.—No. 2924G.A. /11L-25/56. 
—drd نوا‎ 1956.—The (iovernor is রা ৮০ 
amp voint Shri নি. K. Neogi, District and Sessions 

Judge, Midnapore, to be District and Sessions 
Judge, Burdwan, until further orders. 


দেগিনীপুর ے٢‎ ২৯২৫জি,এ।১এল-২৫।৫৬।--৩রা আগস্ট Saay سا‎ 
মোদনশপুরের অপর জেলা ও দায়রা বিচারক শ্রী এস, কে, রায় পুনরাদেশ 
পর্য্যন্ত Cy জেলার জেলা ও দায়রা বিচারক fre হইলেন। 


88801181016, — No. 2925G.A./11L-25/66. — 0 
August 1996.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri S. K. Ray, Additional District and Sessions 
Judge, Midnapore, to act, until further orders, as 
District and Sessions Judge of the said district. 


eying ।-নং ২৯২৬োঁজ,এ।--ওরা আগস্ট feat 
হাওড়ার অবর বিচারক ও সহ-দায়রা বিচারক শ্রীশৈলেশচন্দ্রু তালুকদার 
পুনরাদেশ পর্যাম্ত মোঁদনীপুর জেলার অপর জেলা ও দায়রা 7 
নিষন্ত, হইলেন। 
6لا‎ 


Howrah-Midnapore, — No. 2926G.A. — 0 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Sil Sailesh Chandra Talukdar, Subordinate Judge 
amt Assistant Sessions Judge, Howrah, to act, 
until further orders, as Additional District and 
Sgssions Judge, Midnapore. 


Midnapore.—No. 2927G.A.—3rd August 1956. 
en's exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (2) of section 2 read with sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Criminal Law 
Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West 
Bengat.Act X XI of 1949), the Governor 1s pleased 
to appoint Shri Sailesh Chandra Talukdar, Addi- 
tional District and Sessions Judge, Midnapore, 
to act, in addition to his duties, as Judge to 
preside over the Midnapore Special Court cons- 
tituted under the Judicial Department notification 
No. 46327., dated the 22nd August 1952, in place 
of Shri 8. کا‎ Ray, who was appointed in_ this 
department notification "No. 1177G.A., dated the 
lith- April 1955 und whose services have ceased to 
be available. চি 


নদণয়া-দাজ্জিশলং নং ২৯৩২জ,এ1১ড-১৮1।৫৬1০৮৪ঠা আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ ।-নদীয়া জেঙ্গার جہن‎ শাসক ও সমাহর্তা 7ھ‎ 
গঞ্গোপাধ্যায় ٢٠۰9۴۰1١۰ জেলার শিলগাড় মহকুমার ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


Nadia-Darjeeling.—-No. — 2992G.A./1D-18/56.— 
4th August 1956.--The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Sudhangshu Kumar Ganguli, Sub- 
Magistrate and Sub-Collector, Nadia, to 9۵ 
charge of the Siliguri Subdivision of the Darjee- 
ling district, 


reat :سے‎ ২৯৩৩ জি,এ1১ডি-১৮1৫৬1--প্রঠা আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ EPH জেলার লালবাগের অবর শাসক ও সমাহর্তা 7 
গুরুক্রম মজুমদার নদীয়া জেলার সদরে faa হইলেন। 


এতদ্বারা এই বিভাগের ৬ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারিখের ২৬৩৪জি,এ নং 
বিজ্রপ্তিতে প্রদত্ত যে আদেশে তাঁহাকে ২৪-পরগণা জেলার বারাকপনে 
TAS করা হইয়াছিল তাহা বাতিল করা হই্ল। 


Murshidabad-Nadia.—-No. 2933G.A, /1D-18/56.— 
4th August 195@.—The Governor w pleased to 
appoint Shri Kumar (fJurukram Mazumdar, Sub- 
Magistrate and Sub-Collector, Lalbagh, Murshi- 
dabad, to be a Sub-Magistrate and Sub-Collector 
in the Nadia J)istrict, and to post him to the head- 
quarters station of that district. 


This cancels the orders contained in this depart- 
ment notification No, 26340.A., dated the 6th July 
1956, posting him to the Barrackpore Subdivision 
of the 24-Parganas district. ৬ 


হাওড়া-হগার্লী নং ২৯৪৮জ,এ।৫৯।৫৬ই,এ।--৭ই আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ ।--১৮৯৮ Tors ۳۳۷٣٣۷٣ (১৮৮ খন ৫ম আইন) ১০ম 
ধারার ২য় উপ-ধারার প্রদত্ত ক্ষমতাবলে রাজ্যপাল কর্তৃক জী এস, এন, 
বিশ্বাস, হাওড়ার অপর জেলা শাসক পুনরাদেশ পর্যান্ত, হাওড়া ও, 
হুগলী জেলান্বয়ের (সদর হাওড়া) অপর জেলা শাসক fe হইলেন। এ 
পদে عمج‎ থাকাকালে feta Se দণ্ডপ্রণালণ প্রদত্ত জেলা শাসকের সমফ্ত 
ক্ষমতা এবং এ জেলাম্বয়ে প্রচলিত অন্যান্য আইনসমূহ wy সমস্ত 
ক্ষমতা প্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


Howrah.Hooghly.—No. 2948G.A./59/56E.A.— 
ith August 1956.—In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 1) of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the 
Governor is pleased to appoint Shn 8. N. Biswas, 
Additional District Magistrate, Howrah, to act as 
Additional District Magistrate, of the digtricts of 
Howrah and Hooghly with headquarters at Howrah 
until further orders and to direct that he shall 
have during the period he is 80 employed all the 
powers of a District Magistrate under ‘the said 
Code and under all other taws in force jn those 
districts. 


হাওড়া ।7নং ২৯৪৯জি,এ।৫৯।৫৬ই,এ।-৭ই TIP, ১৯৫৬1. 
১৮৯৮ Shorea events (১৮৯৮ 2 ৫ম আইন) ১০ম ধারার BF 
উপ-ধারায় প্রদন্ত ক্ষমতাবলে রাজ্যপাল কর্তক শ্রী এস, 'সি, চ্যাটার্জি, 
হাওড়া ও হুগলশর অপর জেলাশাসক, পূনরাদেশ পর্যযন্ড হাওড়া জে্সার 
অপর জেলাশাসক fae হইলেন। এ পদে Tae থাকাকালে তিনি 
দণ্ডপ্রণালশ প্রদত্ত জেলাশাসকের সমস্ত ক্ষমতা এবং এ জেলায় প্রচালত 
অন্যানা আইনসমূহ MS সমস্ত ক্ষমতা প্রাপ্ত ۱ 


Howrah. — No. 2949G.A./59/56E.A. — 7th 
August 1956.—In exercise of the powers conterred 
by sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Code of Cri- 
minal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1808), the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to appoint Shri 8S. C. Chatterjee, 
Additional District Magistrate of the districts of 
Howrah and Hooghly vo act as Additional District 
Magistrate, Howrah, until further orders and to 
direct that he shall have durmy the period he is 
so employed all the powers of a District Magis- 
trate under the said Code and under all other laws 
in force in that district, 2 

No. 29640.A-/ রি August 1996.-— 
Governor مز‎ pleased to place the services of Shri K, 
Sen, I.C.8., Secretary, Agriculture, Animal Hus- 
bartdry and Foresta and Irrigation and Waterways 
Departments, at the disposal of the Government 


wf India, Ministry¥ ef Tron and Steel, for appotnt- 


ment as Chief Project Officer, Durgapur Steel 
Project, 


By order of the Governor, 
’ S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


3104 ۱ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 10% 1956 


(Parr J 


neers erent 


24-Parganas-Nadia-Murshidabad. — No. 2902- 
G.A./8P-47/64.—2nd August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri Braja Lal Suha, 
‘retired Sub-Magistrate and Sub-Collector,  re- 
employed as Special Railway Magistrate, Eastern 
Railway, and a Magistrate of the First Class, to be 
a Magistrate of the First Class in the districts of 
24-Parganas, Nadia and Murshidabad, with head- 
quarters at Sealdah. 


Midnapore-Nadia.—No. = 293501. A. /3C0-50/55.— 
Gth August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Lakshmi Kanta De, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate ahd Sub-Deputy Collector, Midnapore, 
to be a Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy 
Collector in the Nadia district and to post him to 
the headquarters station of that district. 


Nadia-Midnapore.—No. 2936G.A. /380-50/55.— 
6th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Sripati Goswami, Deputy-Magistrate 
and Deputy-Collector, on probation, Nadia, to be a 
Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector, on 
robation, in the Midnapore district and to post 
im to the headquarters station of that district. 


No. 2957G.A. /4S-32/56.—7th August 1956.— 
-The Governor is pleased to post Shri Ram Prosad 
Chakravarti, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector, on probation, to the Presidency 
Division. 

By order of the Governor, 
۲ GHOSH, Under Secy. 


Resignation. 


No. 2971G.A./4P-60/56.—9th August 1956.— 
The Governor has been pleased to permit Shri S. K. 
Haldar, I.C.S., to resign the Indian Civil Service 
with effect from the 27th June 1956. 


wie 


Leave. র্‌ 


লাধারণ। 
General, 


No. 2970G.A./11-66 /55.—9th August 1956.— 
In modification of this department notification 
No. 1424G.A., dated the 19th April 1956, the 
Governor was pleased to allow Shri B. 0. Mukher- 
jee, 1.A.S., Joint Magistrate and Deputy Col- 
ector, earned leave for the period from the 10th 
March 1956 to the 26th March 1956 and thereafter 
half pay leave from the 27th March 1956 to the 
9th April 1956 under rule 11(1) and rule 12(2) res- 
pectively of the All-India Services (leave) Rules, 
1955, in extension of the leave granted to him in 
this department notifications No. 4240G.A., dated 
the 20th December 1955 and No. 1902G.A., dated 
the 19th March 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
9. N. RAY, Chief ১০০5. 


RELISTED 


২৯৫২জি,এ।৬এল-১৮/।৫৬1--৭ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬1‏ کے ہم وڈ 
জেলার বহরমপুরের সহ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা শ্রীশচীন্দ্রনাথ‏ وخ 
ence পশ্চিমবঙ্গ pare নিয়মাবলীর (oT খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক‏ 
নিয়মানূসারে ২রা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারিথ হইতে ১৪ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬‏ 
তাঁরখ maps alee ছুটি মঞ্জছর করা হইল।‏ 


Murshidahbad.——-No. 2052G.A./61I+18/56.—7th 
August 1956.—The Governor was pleased to allow 
Shri Sachindra Nath Chanda, Sub-Mazpistrate and 
Sub-Collector, Berhampore, Murshidabad, earned, 
leave for the period from the 2nd July 1956 to the 
14th July 1956 under rule 167 (ii) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


4 


Defence 


NOTIFICATION 

No, 120917.D./6L-20/56.—lst August 1956.— 

The Governor is pleased to allow Shri A. K. 

Mitra, Administrative Officer, Bangiya Agragam? 

Dal, 1st (Biswakarma) Battalion, Weat Bengal 

National Volunteer Force, earned leave for thirty 

days with effect from the 2nd August 1956, 

under rule 16080) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 

By order of the Governor, 

I. B. SURITA, 


State Defence Co-ordination Officer and 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
Community Development Projects 


NOTIFICATIONS 

No. 5985C.D.P. — 17th July 1956. — The 
Governor is pleased to notify that the post of 
Assistant Development Commissioner (Industries), 
Development রদ held by Shri ভিত] 
Chandra Niyogi should be designated as Assigfint 
Development Commissioner (Field Operations and 
Industries), Development Department. 


_ No. 6364C0.D.P.—30th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to replace the services of Shri 
Siddhananda Chatterjee, temporary Assistant 
Engineer under Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel 
National Memorial Fund Schemes in Mahammad 
Bazar Block (Birbhum), at the disposal of the 
Development (Roads) Department, with effect from 
the 7th August 1956. 

By order of the Governor, 

S. K. BANNERJI, 

Deputy Development Commissioner and 


ex officio Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West 
Bengal. 


বিচার বিভাগ । 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
নং ৩০৪৬ জি,এ। 
No. 3046G.A. 
WAST | 
Powers. 
24-Parganas-Nadia-Murshidabad. — No. 2903- 
G.A./8P-47/54.—2nd August 1956.—The (tover- 
nor is pleased to vest Shri Braja J.al Saha, ৭০০০৯] 
Railway Magistrate, Eastern Railway, and ط‎ 
Magistrate of the First Class in the districts of 
24-Parganas, Nadia and Murshidabad, with the 
powers under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of sub-section 
(1) of section 190 of the Code of Crimina] Proce- 


dure in the districts of 24-Parganas, Nadia and 
Murshidabad. 


নঙ্গশীয়া।-নং ২৯২৯জিএ।২পি-৩৮1৫৬।--৪ঠা আগস্ট aay سا‎ 
নদীয়া জেলার কৃফনগরের আবেক্ষাধীন উপ-শাসক শ্লীঅসিতরঞ্জন দাশগ্‌স্তকে 
তৃতীয় শ্রেশীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 

Nadia.—No. 29290.A./2P-38/56.—4th August 
1966.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri Asit 
Ranjan Das Gupta, Deputy Mngistrate, on pro- 


bation, Krishnagar, Nadia, with the powers of a 
Magistrate of the Third Class. 


নদীয়া ।-নং ২৯৩০ জি,এ।২পি-৫৩1৫৬।--৪ঠা আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।- 
নদশয়া জেলার অবেক্ষাধধীন উপ-শাসক Mote গোস্বামীকে দ্বিতীয় 
শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল। 


Wadia. -No. 2930G.A./2P-58/66.—4th August 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri Sripats 
Goswami, Deputy Magistrate, on probation, Nacsa, 
টা the powers of a Magistrate of the Second 

ABs. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


Part 1] 


শপ শিপ ক উস ঠাস পপ PA 


পি مہ‎ পাপী সস পপ পপ শাপলা খপ nal ہے‎ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUTGTST 16, 1956 3105 


Judicial 
Appointments and Transfers. 


Calcutta.—No, 4865J.—Ist August 1956.—In 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 22 of 
{he Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act ۷۴ of 
1898), as amended by the Code of Criminal 
Procedure (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1909 
(West Bengal Act XXX of 1955), — the 
(iovernor is pleased to appoint Shri Seth Indra 
Kumar Karnani, residing at 3 Synagogue Street, 
Culeutta, to be a Justice of the Peace within and 
fo. Ward No. 26, as defined on the Calcutta 
(Municipal Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act XXXIII 
of 1951), tor a period of one year from the date 
of this notification. 

By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy 


Leave 


No. 477673.—28th July 1956. -—Mr. Justice 
8 R. Las Gupta, a Judge of the High Court, 
‘aleutta, is granted leave on tull allowances for 
the. period from the 13th July 1956 to the 11th 
۸9١ 1956. 

৫ By order of the Governor, 
K. K. HAJARA, Secy. 


.99۔989 


Powers 


Birbhum.—No. 4730J.—26th July 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by section 14 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act ٣ of 
1898), the Governor is pleased to confer upon the 
Additional Rehabilitation Officers named _ below, 
the powers of a Magistrate of the third class to 
be exercised in the district of Birbhum from the 
date of this notification until further orders : سس‎ 


Shri Dinesh Chandra Chaudhury. 
Shm Nripendra Mohan Chatterjee. 


Burdwan.—No. 47313.—26th July 1956.—The 
(fovernor is pleased to rescind with effect from 
the date of this notification, notification 


No. 52167., dated 14th August 1953, published at 
pages 2762-53 of Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of 
the 27th August 1953, in so far as it relates to the 
conferment of the powers of a Magistrate of the 
third class in the district of Burdwan upon the 
Additional Rehabilitation Officer Shri Dinesh 
Chandra Chaudhury. 


ERRATUM 


No, 4836 ..-3181 July 1996.—In this department 
notification No. 5748J., dated the 13th September 
1955, allotting two cases to the Murshidabad Addi- 
fronal Special Court— 


for ‘“‘accused No. 1 is charged under section 161, 
Indian Penal Code and accused No, 2 is 
charged under sections 161/109, Indian 
Penal (00091? occurring in case No. 2. 


read “accused No. 1 is charged under  sec- 
tion 161, Indian Penul Code and under 
section 6(2) of the Prevention of Corruption 
Act, 1947 (Act I] -of 1947), and accused 
No, 2 is charged under sections 161/109, 
Indian Penal Code, and section 6(2) of the 
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (Act IT 
of 1947), read with section 109, Indian 

Penal Code”. 

By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 
Registration 
NOTIFICATIONS 
Burdwan.—No. 597Regn.—2ml August 1956.— 
The Governor wag pleased to appoint Shri Kishor 
Mohan Karmakar, retired Registration Officer 
who had been re-employed as Sub-Registrar, to 
act as Sub-Registrar of Mangalkote, in the 
district of Burdwan, with effect from 18th Jan- 
huary 1956. 


Malda.—No, 594Reen.—2Qnd August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to allow Shri Abdul 
Wajed, District Sub-Registrar of Malda, leave 


on average pay for two months with effect from 
Lith June 1956, under rule 184(b)(ii) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part 1, in extension of the 
leave granted to him in the Registration Jirecto- 
rate notification No. 42, dated the 19th May 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
Taxation 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 1605F.Tex.—25th July 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by clause (b) of paragraph 
30 of the West Bengal Cotton Cloth and Yarn 
Control Order, 1948, us subsequently amended, 
the Governor is pleased to exempt all dealers at 
hats bolding textile licences under group “D’” of 
schedule 1 to the said order from the operation of 
the provisions of clause (1) of paragraph 19 of the 
said order. 


No. 142F.Tex.—24th July 1956.—In pursuance 
of sub-clause (1) of clause 3 of the Cotton Textiles 
(Control of Movement) Order, 1948, as subse- 
quently amended, the Governor is pleased hereby 
to make the following amendments in notifieation 
No. 14638.D., dated the 29th June 1954, published 
at page 937 of Part I of the Calcutta (Gazette, 
Extraordinary, of the 29th June 1964, as  subse- 
quently amended, namely :— 


Amendments 


In the suid notification, in the proviso under 
the heading “General Permit’— 
(a) in the second line, after the words “shall 


submit a statement’? add the words “in 
duplicate”, and 


(b) in the third line, fer the words “J)irector 

of Textiles and Consumer (toods, Town 

+ Hall, Caleutta’’ substitute the words 

“Director of Textiles, 11/A, Free School 
Street, Caleutta’’. ۰ 


No. 1644F.T.—28th July 1956.—The following 
draft of au amendment which, in exercise of the 
power conferred by section 26 of the Bengal 
Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act V1 
of 1941), the Governor proposes to make in the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rlues, 1941, as subsequently 
amended, is published, 28 required by sub-section 
(1) of the said section, for the information of 
persons hkely to be affected thereby. 


2. The draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 23rd August 1956 and any objec- 
tion or suggestion with respect thereto which may 
be received by the undersigned before that date 
shal] be considered. 


Draft amendment 


In sub-clause (iv) of clause (a) of sub-rule (2) 
of rule 1 of the said rules, after the words “or 
holds a restricted certificate under the Restricted 
Certificate Rules, 19382,” isert the following 
worda, namely :— 


“or is a Chartered Accountant within the 
meaning of the Chartered Accountants Act, 
1949 (XNAVITT of 1949),”. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


3106 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES. 


WEST BENGAL 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 770.T.—2nd August 1956.—In pursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 


Serial §§ Name of the dealer. Address and chief place 
No. of businoss. 
1 2 8 
Messrs. Jagnarain ٭>‎ Narain Prosad Babu 
Uditnaraln. - Lane, Calcutta. 
2 Messrs. Durgadutt Ditto রঃ 
Gajanand. 
8 Dhupsagar Ra ., 21 #£Ohetla Railway 
. Siding, Calcutta. 


4 Yoong FaTannery .. 47 South Tangra Road, 
14 Calcutta. 


Mocambo Restaurant .. 26B Park Street,‏ ت5 
Calcutta.‏ 

6 8. 2), Construction Co. Panagarh, district 
Burdwan. 


7 Han Kumar Kamal Memari, district Burdwan 


umar. 
8 ‘Tarak Nath Bairagya .. Ditto -7 
9 Manindra Nath Das ১, লে? Road, 
রঃ a district Cooch 
schar, 


10 Dhtirendra Nath Jjakshi 61 Chittaranjan Avenue, 
Calcutta. 


11 Gopikishan Shankarial 17 Noormal Lohia Lane, 


Calcutta. 
12 Snrajmall Puranchand 18 Noormal Lohia Lane 
(4th floor), Calcutta. 
18 Mesers. Gujrat Hardware 198 Oannuing 8٥٥ 
Stores. Calcutta, 
14 Srichand Ktfrorimull Kalimpong 7 
16 Assam Govornment Ditto ve 
Emporlum. 


Additiona) 
place of 
business. 


4 


ee 


oe 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16; 1956 


[Parr 1] 


(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of newly 
registered dealers together with a description of 


No and date Goods for use in manufacture or 


of registration 


certificate. 
5 


BDII/2742A, 
24-7-56, 


BDIT/27484, 
24-7- 66, 


BH2819A, 
20-7-0. 


BH/2820A, 
25-7-56, 


BH/2821A, 
26-7-56, 


BN/1164A, 
21-7-56. 


BN/1165A, 
25-7-56. 


BN/1166A, 
25-7- 56. 


CB/526A, 
260-6, 


OL/2789A, 
17-7-66, 


0811382۸ 
18-7-66. 


ر081 
.18-7-58 


08177120184, 
207-0, 


DJ/890A, 
24-7-56, ° 


DJ/900A, 
24-7-0. 


in‘the oxeoution of contracte. 


৮৪৪৯ 


(1) Raw materials 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and acccssori cs, 


(5) Consumable stores, 


Provided that all goods for which 
excinption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are Intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named bclow :— 


(4) Tanned leather, hide akin. 


(1) Raw materials 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parta 


and accessorics, 
(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed 86 08 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 


(8) Cooked food, sweeta, cake, 
Pastrics and puddings. 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machincry, spare parte 
and accessories. 


(8) Consumable stores , viz., acid, 
coke, sohaga, nisadal, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed arc Intended 
for use In the actual procose of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below; — 


Gold and silver bullion. 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and 90008801109, 


(8) Consumable 
timber and 1088. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption frum payment of 
sales 16 Claimed are intended 
for use in tho actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below: — 


(4) Bized timber, 


stores, _Viz., 


پ+وم+ھ- 


ومسيیم 


the goods covered by their registration certificates 
are published for general information :— 


Goods for ۶۰ 


7 


Jecra, dhania, mohri, dhuna, jute- 
twine, coir-string, mahua ofl and 
cocoanut of], 


Groundnut 
pulses, 


Coal. 


seed, cercala and 


Tanned leather, hide skin, 


Acrated water, ice, 


Building materials, brioka, saw, 
timber, iron rods and joists 
Itme, cement, stone-chips, door 
and windows, screw, bolts and 
nuts, tools and implements, 


Coal, lime, palnts, tiles, wood. 


Gold, silver, chuni, mukta, stones, 
copper, ۱۶۰ 


Firewood, logs and sized timber. 


75 materials, tron and steel 

for structural contract, paint, 
cemont, timber, brick, corru- 
gated tin, coa)-tar. 


Textile 0160৩ goods, 


Baril, 7۶08 


lung! (handloom), 
cotton yarns, 


All ۲ ۵ Of ball bearing, parta of 
ball beartogs,, beltings, pipe and 
pipe fittings. 


Cotton, woollen and ailken cloth. 


Handloom — producta, 
and Ivory articles. 


brasawarces 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA. GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1968 3107 
serial Namo of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No and date Govds for use in manufacture or Goods for resale. 
No. of 84 place of = of registration in the oxeoution of contracta. 
businesa. certificate. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
16 Mossra. Medicos (India) 79 Stephen House, 42A HL/237b, (1) Raw materials. Medicines, toilet and perfumery 
Privato Ltd. Dalhousie Square Wellesley 20-7-54, goods, pharmacentical, chem{. 
East, Calcutta. سج‎ (2) Consumable 8۰ cals and surgical goods. 
aloutta, 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales taxis claimed are intended 
for use in the actual proceas of 
manufacture of the مل مںع‎ 
named below سے‎ 
e 
(4) Medicine as per presecrip- 
tion. 
17 Mesars 8. H. Abdul Aziz 44-46 Canning ۵٥ 7 12011۸, ہے‎ Toy goods, 
Abdul Khaliq, Oalcutta. 25-7-0. 
18 Mosars. Garg Bangle 5 Canning Street, he HL/3164A, وو 6و 8٭‎ 
Stores. alcutta. 267-6, 
19 Messrs, The Shibpur Co- 160/11 Shibpur Road, ne HW/1722A, সেচের Handloom products, 
operative Bank_ Ltd. Howrah. 24-7-56, 
(Government and- 
loom Sales 10001 (۵7۰ 
20 Messrs. D. Rasiklal & Co. Amtabazar, Howrah .. রি HY/1728A, een Biri leaves, birl tobacco, biri 
207-6, binding, thread and birl packing 
Mat orials, 
21 3500880. Priya Stores... Birpara, Jalpaiguri or ix JP/1490A, یں‎ Cycle, cycle 00008801108 and spare 
24-7-1956. parts, aporta goods, م۰‎ 
22 Messrs. Fatik Chandra Alipurduar, Station Road, as JP/1491A, eae Mill-made dhoties, sarees, আদ ৪ 
Das. alpaiguri. 24-0. readymade garments, napkin, 
1011, chaddar. 
238 "۸۷۰ Sri Natu Ditto. re JP/1492A, ee Stationery goods, umbrella, hurri- 
Bhandar. 24-7-56. وب‎ lantern, glass wares, potter- 
68, 
24 The Barrel Recondi- 88 Netaji Subhas Road, و‎ LR/2688A, (1) Raw materials. Barrels and 8۰ 
tioning Co. of India Calcutta. 20-7-56. 
Ltd. (2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 
(8) Consumable stores. 
Provided that sll goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax 15 claimed are {ntended 
for use in the actual proceas of 
manufacture of the goods named 
low سس‎ 
(4) Repaira and reconditioning 
barrels. 
(86) Druma and other con- 
tainera. 
26 Prodosh Sen .. 15۸ Clive Row, Calcutta = LR/2680A, bea Tea. 
24-7-56. 
26 Bhagabati Prosad Koreali, Malda ae on ML/446A, ৪:45 ৪ Sal wood, fron 1008, iron pipes. 
Modi. 20-6. 
287 Ambioa Tobacco Co. English Bazar, Malda .. -۰ ہم "و‎ Biri tobacco and biri leaves. 
@ 
28 K.Halder&Sons .. Marikpara 2nd Lane, PG/1867A, 7 Paper, board, stationery. 
Ichapur, Nawabganj}, 18-7-56. 
24-Parganga. 
29 Behala Indigenous 44 Pathakpara Road, oe 2106۸, )1( Raw materials. ‘ 
Drug Industriea Ltd. Behala, Calcutta-3¢. 17-7-۰ 


80 .لا‎ "7.۲9٤ P16 Block B, Lake 


we 


25 Jeasore PG/116R, 


Oolony, Calcutta-83. Road, 17-7-56 
Baraact, 24- 
: Parganas. 
81 Automotive Fuel and 18 Diamond Harbour ea ডে 
Bervice Station. Road, Behala, Cal- 18-7-56, 
cutta-88. 
82 P. N. Brother & 00, Kallaankarpore alias i PG/1870A, 
Ltd. Ram, Rampore, police- 24-7-56. 
station Diamond Har- 
bour, 24-Parganas. i 
88 Jagatmata Bhandor.. Baasirbat Puran Dagar, ee ۶۱/1871۸, 
Basirhat, 24-Parhanas. 24-7-56, 
84 11085, Mehta & Bons 61 Strand Road, Caloutta 7 "02 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 


(3) Consumable ৪6০৬৪, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax 18 claimed are intended 
for uso In the actual proceas of 
00 8 of the goods named 

clow سس‎ 


(t) Medicines. 


@eae 


(1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
nnd accessories. 
(3) Consumable stores, viz., coal. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment af 
88108 tax 18 claimed are Intended 
for usd in the actual process of 
ہر‎ of the goods named 

elow سس‎ 


(t) Bricks, 


Lubricating oil, grease, distilled 
water, motor parte. 


Lubricating 01), diesol of], mobil oil, 
grease, 


Cloth, shirting, auiting, handloom 
cloth. 


Gunnica, hessians, grains, 


rain 
80018) 011 seeds, olla and tea. . 


3108 


Serial 
No. 


35 


36 


87 


88 
$9 


40 


41 


42 


No. 78C.T.—2nd August 1946.—In 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers whose registrations under the Act were 


Serial 
No. 


1 


2 


8 


4 
5 


6 


Name of the dealer, 


2 


ও ০৯১ ED He ay ee ০৯ ERS TONE‏ یں . .. .ہہ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


any ae 


Address and chief place Additional No and date (Goods for use in manufacture or 
of registration 


of business, 


স্পা সপ আপ সত পালা tentinene nen مًممجھر‎ 


পাত 


placc of 


business, 


3 4 


Messrs. Shree Baidyanath 370 Upper Chitpur Boad, 1 


Iron & ৪66৮1 Co., Ltd. 


۸7+ 8۰ 
Medical Stores. 


Mesars. Makali Mistan- 


na Bhandar. 


Moeesrs. India Hide 
Skin Co, 

Megars. G. R. Motor 
Engineering Co. 

Mesars. Latno Trading 
Co. 


Moaara. A. K. Mitra & 
Co. 


Indotex Products 


ee 


Name of the dealer. 


2 


(8) Car Care Private 
»৪: JOr 
Car Care Ltd. 
70417111917) Shoe Factory 


(8) Abdul Gaffar Khan 
Dewan Md. Abia 
for 


Abdu! Gaffar Khan. 
Surajmal Sagarmal .. 


Natwarlal N. Daftary 


(8) Deokinandan 
Birendra Kumar 
Private Ltd. 


Ramkanal 


Calcutta. 


128/1 Cornwallis Street, 
Calcutta. 


174 Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. 


11/2 Harshi 
Calcutta. 


189 Dharamtolla Street, 7 
Calcutta. 


Street, 


7 Santosh Mitra Square, 
Calcutta. 


ee 


63 Creek Row, Calcutta -۰ 


66 Rajbati Mahalla, 
Chinsurah, Hooghly. 


for 
Deokinandan irendra 


Kumar Ltd. 


pursuance 


certiticate, 
6 


84, 
14-7-0. 


8۸, 
17-60. 


سے ڑا 8H‏ 
.7-66 ن 


ھ82970 
۰ .18-7-5 


sag ig 


66. 


SL/3000A, 
25-7-56. 


8۸, 
26-7-56. 


8۲11۸, 
26-7-56. 


Address and chief place Additional No. and date 
of business. place of of  registra- 
business. tion certifi- 
cates. 
8 4 5 
19 Jatindra Mohan BDI/2256A, 
Avenue, Calcutta. 21-12-51. 
(8) Mobarak Buildings, (D) Rani- (8) BN/1163A, 
Burdwan, ganj-bazar, 24-7-56. 
Sor Burdwan. or 
Raniganj-bazar, Burdwan. /68B, 
15-6-55, 
Bijoyram, Burdwan... -۰ BN /565A, 
22-7-48, 
Dinhata, Cooch Behar .. ea CH/207A, 
18641۰ 
"46 Ezra Street, Calcutta 7 CL/2174A, 
26-4-61. 
161/1 Harrison Road, লি OL/1708A, 
valcutte. 6-2-48. 


পি উন ০ স্পা me 


[Parr 1 


٠ 


শপ مد‎ 


in the execution of contracts, 


(1) Raw materials. 

(2) Plant, machinery, 
parts and 90609801108, 
(3) Consumable stores, viz., coal, 

পাত, iron and steel, 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax ۱۵ claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the gouds named 
below :-— 
(4) Iron and steel castings, 
machinery parts for sale. 


spare 


(1) Raw materials. 

(2) Nil. 

(3) Consumable stores, viz., all 
kinds of allopathic medicines. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
88168 tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below :=~ 
(4) Medicines under prescrip- 

tion for sale. 


(1) Raw matorials. 

(2) NIL. 

(8) Consumable stores, viz., milk, 
sugar, flour, atta, ghee, vegetable 
products, channa and besan. 

Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
Bales tax is claiined are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below :— 

(i) Sweets and nonta for sale. 


ove 


even 


(1) Raw materiala. 

(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 

(8) Consumable stores. 
rovided that all goods for which 
exomption from payment of 
saléa tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 18100 
below سسہ:‎ 

(৪) Furniture (wooden). 


2 Raw materials. 
rovided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of sales 
tax is claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process of 
manufacture of goods named 
below :-~ 
(i) Rubber teata, valvos, finger 
stalls, dropper toata, 
gloves, hings, and cones. 


Goods for use in manufac- 
ture or in the execution of 
the contracts. 


6 


(D) Raw materiala—Plant, 
machinory, «pare parts and 
accessorics. Consumable 
stores— Hide, provided that 
all goods for which cxemp- 
tion from payment of sales 
tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process 
of manufacture. 


৪৪৯৪ 


وھ 


Goods for resale, 


Staple yarn and stee) scrap. 


Medicines, patent 11190101008, in- 
jectables, medical and surgical 
appliances, dressing materials, 
injecticides, medicated wines, 

k products, medicated soap, 
medicated toiletry, methylated 
and rectified spirit and absolute 
alchohol. 


Raw hide and skin. 
Diesel engine parta and accessoriew, 


Wooden furniture. 


Tea garden stores. 


amended with effect from the date noted against 
each of them and in respect of the 
appearing in the different columns in the manner 
indicated against such particulars are published 
for general information :— 


۸ 8 


Goods for resale. Date of 
amond- 
ment. 
7 8 

aqe 25-7266 

চা 2 10 
eens 25-7-66 

(A) Atta, flour, wheat, koro- 26-7+66 

sene 011 and oflcake. 
(D) Milk food (provisions) and - 0 
betelnuts. 

aeae 2-0 


part I] 


serial 
No. 


10 


11 


18 


18 


1 


x 


15 


16 


17 


18 


20 


21 


22 


24 


Name of the dealer. 


B. N. Dutta & Co. .. 


Sabbhoy Abedali 


৮ $ 


(8) Vora Bros. Private 
Ltd. 
or 
Vora Bros. Ltd. 
(8) Kabra __—— Brothers 
Private Ltd. 


for 
Kabra Brothers Ltd. 


(۶ Sohanlal 
Sreechand. 


۰ Haricharan 
Shyamsundar Ltd. 


Keshavlal Nagindas ., 


“\ Gobind Company... 


Quilabchand Motichand 


Abdul Salam ۰ 
Ibrahim. 


Prabhulal V, Seth 


L. 8. Saha 


Indian Cloth House .. 
Beth Trading Co. .. 


(8) Umakanta & Co. 
Private, Ltd. 


or 
মরার & Co. Ltd. 
Bhimsain Sundarsain 


Kundu Datt Co. ,, 


Hanumanbux 10001 
hand 


cnand, 


L. Shree Kant 


ری 


Sabitri Bastralaya 


THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


Address and chief place Additional 


of business. 


8 


(8) 12 Lower Chitpore 


32D کو‎ 


Road, Calcutta, 


Parisad 
Street, Calcutta. 
آ۵‎ Canning Street, 
Calcutta. 


47 Ezra Street, Calcutta 


161/1 می‎ Road, 


Calcutta 
80 Cotton Strect, 
Calcutta. 
40/1/1 Cotton Street, 
Calcutta, 
8 wt Cross Street, 
alcutta, 
or 
198, 07088 Street, 
Calcutta. 
158 سید‎ Street, 
Calcutta 


(9) 1 and 1/1 না 


Lohla inl Caloutta 


116 Cross Btreet, 
Calcutta 
144 Lower Chitpur Road, 
Calcutta. 
85 Armenian 8) 
Calcutta. 
(8) 80 Croas Btreet, 
Calcutta, 

‘for 
61 Cross Street, 
Calcutta. 
158 Cross Street, 
Calcutta. 
160, Cross Street, 
Oaloutta. . 


4 Mullick Streot, Calcutta 


14 Amratolla 


Street, 
Calcutta. 


place 


of 
business. 


(A) = Cal- 


cutta (1). 


oe 


178 Cross Street, Calcutta 


190 Cross Btreet, Calcutta 


(8) 218A 01085 Street, 


1951] 


104 


Calcutta 


Oaleutta, 


Cross 8)4 


00 6 


for 
Harrison Road, 


কতা 


No. and date Goods for use in manufac- 


of ٢ 8۲۰ 
tion certifi- 
cates. 


5 
وہ یں‎ 
BDI /2304A, 
28-11-52. 


CL/2008A, 
25-09-41. 


جا 
.20-0-۰ 
ig‏ ور 
.26-2-0 
ee‏ بک 
,4-10-47 
CSI/219B‏ )8( 


or 
i 488A, 
1-56-54. 


08117114894, 
19-2-۰. 

0818۸. 
6-5-48. 


ید اٹ 0877 
14-7-50 


a or 
20-0-1۰. 


08711241048, 
25-35-50. 


0811/15۸, 
28-10-53. 


O811/2319A, 
20- 9, 


CSIT ছি 
16-8-66 


01.1 রি 


৮ তা 
17-11-48. 


OBIT/2454A, 
29-5-50. 
OSII/8238A, 
22-7-65. 


)8( 
تج لو کی 


পালে 
2-10-58, 


OSIT/S208A, 
8-0. 


ture or in the execution of 
the contracts. 


رو وب 


৪৫8৬ 


روف 
soe‏ 


eaee 


(A) (1) Raw materials 


2) Plant, machinery, ৪ 
7 parte cin ৯৭ یں‎ 


নি দীপন لی‎ stores, ١أ.‎ 
mineral pending, an ড় os 


quality 
Sitting ol} 7 greases, 
tin سے‎ geek containers 
and সত paper 
and بت‎ = and carbon 
black,carnauba wax, para- 
fin wax, bees wax, synthetic 
wax and other quality of 
waxes. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use In the 
actual process of manufac- 

the goods named 

below سب‎ 


($) Shoe ‘polishes. 
(8) Polish containers. 
(444) Packing boxes. 


eee06 
aeeee 


tee 


رر طف 


ھی 


بر یب 


eee 


pean 


Goods for resale. 


Bees wax, shellac 


eoe@ 


(A) Umbrella and umbrella 
fittings, 


روف 


eeeoe 


Zine, pulley‏ تھا 
! ا lead g‏ 


শি جج‎ 
6, alu 


wire handles, 
ri goods, 


পনি শশী اس‎ oe 


ware and machinery parte. 


D) Textile, 15051 ٠ 
get ga 


(A) Hair dye, jute goods and 


stationery goods. 


دہف 


(A) Knitting wool 


(A) Cotton ০01০0 goods 


aoae 


ذف 


se 


(A) Alumintum = cirales and 


utenails, 


(A) Hosiery goods, moaquito 
ourtain, umbrella, satran- 
011) sujnt, handloom dhutles 


and sarees. 


Coir fibre, manufactured‏ ھا 
irl,‏ 


eee 


(A) Dhoties and sarees 


14-7-56 


17-7-56 


14-0 


24-7-0 


26-7-0 


20-7-0 


20-7-0 


20-7-56 


20-7-66 


21-7-56 


24-0 


24-7-56 


20-0 


18-7-56 


18-7-56 


16-27-56 


16-77-56 


16-7-56 


1806 


9110 


Name of the dealer.‏ سن 
.0 


1 


27 Messrs. 8u 


Corporation. 


28 0۰ 


29 Sankarlal Ramkumar Sukiapokhri, Darjeeling 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


Address and chiof place ایس‎ 


of business, 


r Machine 188 Canning 
Caloutta. 


Industrial 185 Canning 
Service Agency. Calcutta. 


Btreet, 


Street, 


80 Meeara. 0, Rogers & 6 Dalhousie Square Kast, 
Cu. Calcutta. 


81 Mosers. 
sere ۴ 


Atias Fertili- 
td. 


4 


Bankehall 
alcut 


Strect, 


lace 


usinoss. 


4 


a8 


of of 


No. and date Goods for use in manufac- 


tion certifi- 
cates. 


5 
09117125948, 
16-0 


CSITT/2084A, 
29-8-51. 


DJ /584A4, 
10-7-60. 


مم 
,24-0-41 


BL/26A, 
27-90-41, 


regiatra~ ture or in tho execution of 


the contracta. 


6 
(8) (1) Raw materials লী 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 


parts and accessories, 
(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
aro intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac~- 
ture of the goods named 
below :— 

(6) Machinery and machi- 
nery parts. 


jor 
Pig iron, tron, hardware, 
coal, سی بی‎ 


81 any oxhet raw mate- 


(2) plant, machinery, spare 
parts, accessories and 
consumable stores, 

])8( building or plumbing 
materials, or fixtures, 
required for construo- 
tlon, gall aoe or re ar 

of any bu » cert. 
by the ৭ ne hole 
to be required for use in 
any process in the manu- 
facture of machinery 
= machinery parts for 
9. 


(30) General merchandise as 
and when required for 


resalo. 

(A) Woollen, silken and cotton 
cloth, woollen and cotton 
blanket, umbrella, canvas 
shoe, knitting wool,threads, 
cocoanut, hostery goods, 
chirata, maijith. 


(8) (1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, مسا‎ spare 
parts and 80098801198, 


(3) Consumable atores. 


Provided that all the goods 
for which exemption from 
payment of es tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process 
of manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 

(8) Radio sets, Radlogram. 
Electro-gramophones. 
581) +87 equipments. 


for the purpose of manufac 
ture of radio accessories, 
motors, switches, batteries. 


and 
(1) any other raw mate- 


a 8, 
(2) plant, machinery, apare 
» accessorica and 
consumable stores, 

(8) building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures 
required for construc- 
tion, fitting out or 
repalr of any building 
certified by the purchas- 
ing dealer to be required 
for 089 in any process in 
the manufacture of radio 
seta, radiograms, electro- 
gramophones, amplifier 
equipments for sale. 


(8) (1) Raw materials. 

(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
ae and পপ ۰ 

(3) Consumable stores, 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
below سم‎ 
(% Fertillsers. 

86) Glue spraying mate- 
rials. 


Sor 
Fertilisers of all descrip- 
tions, chemicals and 
organic laboratory 
درو‎ £ sat stores. 


(1) any 8 raw mate- 


rlals, 

(2) plant, machinery, spare 
parte, accessories and 
consumable stores, 

(8) building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures, 

required for Sone 00 
At ng out or repair of 
any building cortified 
by the purchasing dealer 
to be required for use In 
any process in the mannu- 
facture of fertilisers, 
lue apraying materials 
or sale, 


Goods for resale. 


চা 


(a) Waterproof craft papor 


১৪৪৫৬ 


25-7-56 


20-7-56 


200 


20-7-50 


Part I] 


ac 00007777727‏ ےھچ کو 


Serial Name of the dealer, aca aut chief place গে 


No. 


1 2 


82 Messrs. Diana Tea Co., 
Ltd. 


83 


34 


85 


86 


87 


89 


41 


48 


48 


44 


45 


46 


47 


48 


Moasra, Indra Chemica] 
Industries. 


Mesars, Gouri Knitting 
Factory. 


(8) Messra. Hazsra, 
Sana por & Oo. 


Mosers. 0کی۳‎ 
Hazra & Aswinl 
Kumar Roy. 


os Menara. Victory 
7 موہ‎ (Private) 


for 


Messrs, Victory Iron 
Works Lid. 


Mesers. The 


national 
বা 


(8 miya 

Halder & Sons 

Amilya مت‎ Halder. 
Baljnath & Sons 7 


Inter- 
Trading 


0 Zenith ie and 
کا موہ‎ . Private 


Stores ead‏ ا 
Agency Co., Ltd.‏ 


United Industrlal 
Corporation. 


Gourisankar Giridhari- 
lall & Co. 


৪ Ou 
کی ہار‎ be Ltd. 


Wellgo 011 Co., Ltd. 


Nandram Hunatram 


Milk and Milk Producta 
Distribution Scheme 
Government 0 
Weat Bengal. 


4৭ Radharaman Dutt 
Sons (Private) 


Sor 
Radharaman Dutt & 
Sons, 


(9) Tarakeswar Stores 
om Partncra Sri 
Tarakeswar Saha & 
Brojogopal Saha 


or 
Tarakeawar Stores. 
(8) Atul Chandra Paul 
اصع‎ Charan : 
سا‎ o Ltd. 


Atul “Chandra Paul 
Tarint Charan Dey 
Ltd. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


business. 


8 


4 0 Bankshall BStreet, 


aloutta. 


19 Mohanlal Bahalwalla 
Road, O. Bally, 
Howrah, 


852 G. T. Road, Salkia, 
Howrah. 


05 71911892800] Road, 
Howrah. 


77 Banaras Road, 8508 
Howrah. 


560 Dr. Abani 
Road, Howrah. 


Dutta 


Patra Market, Krish- 
adia. 


nagar, N 


(8) 22 سیف‎ Road, 
Caloutta 


5B (3 
Calcutta 


19 Strand Road, Calcutta 


Ghat Street, 


15۸ Clive Row, Calcutta 
5 Clive Row, Calcutta .. 


Chartered Bank Build- 
ings, Calcutta. 


(8) 8 Lyons Range, Cal- 
cutta 


he 

182 Cotton Street, Cal- 
cutta. 

Writers’ Buildings, Cal- 
0008, 


Olive Buildings, Calcutta 


Balurghat, West Dinaj- 
pur, 


07/41 
Calor 


Strand Road, 
1৮৮৮, 


lace 
usiness. 


311] 
No. and date Goods for use in manufac- Goods for resale. Date of 
of regiutra- ture or in the execution of amend- 
tlon certifi- the contracts. mont, 
cates 
5 6 7 8 
ছু, (8) (1) Raw materials. وم‎ 20-7-6 
۱ (2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parte and accessories, 
(8) Consumable stores, | 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay; 
ment of sales tax is cla 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
below :—~ 
({) Tea 
and 
(1) any other raw mate- 
rials, 
(2) plant, machinery, spare 
parts, accessories and 
consumable stores, 
(8) building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures 
required for مامتا‎ 
tion, fitting out orr onal 
of any bullding certified 
by the purchasing dealer 
to be required for use in 
any process in the manu- 
facture of tea for sale. 
HW/1717A, cat (A) Soda ash, caustic soda, 256-6 
10-7-56. art bleaching powder, 
salt petro. 
HW /1207A, er (A) Yarn ee 2-6 
11-6-61. 
H ین‎ ٣۳ ev @e vee 207-0 
25-0-171۰ 
HW/1084A, ১৬৪৬ ৪৯ 25-7-56 
4-56-44. 
HW/1700A, 9 নি plate, iron billet, 26-0 
11. on bar, 
KR/1268A, ee90 sone 21-7-56 
25-7-50, 
11 783A, eres ee 14-7+66 
190-84-9. 
খা 
LB/1045A, ৬৪৪৪ و دووھ‎ 17-08 
20-2-4. 
(01, eer (A) Belting and gasket cement 20-7-66 
21-56-63, 
LR/2587A, are (A) O. I, or plain iron sheeta, 20-7-56 
10-10-44, tin and tin goods, asbestos 
copper and copper 
11 728A, یرر یی ہو‎ 20-7-6 
18-5-8. 
(8) LR/2687A, ১৬৪৬ eee 20-7-56 
or 
BDI1/21 814, 
7-9-60. 
LR/2638A, (A) Toned milk and other econ 25-6 
2--0, [010008590 milk. 
(1,44۰, ৪০৪৬ ওক 0۔20‎ 
12-11-46, 
ML/321A,4 ones {A) Umbrella, millemade and 25-7-56 
14-10-49. ان یسر‎ : — 
piece an 08101: 
৪০০৫৪. 
1ڑ‎ 045A, er : oe 106 
6-5-46. 


3112 
Serial 
No. 


1 2 


49 8. K. Bagchi & Co. 


50 (8) Himalayan Works 
ivate Lid. 

jor 
Himalayan Works Ltd. 


National ۹3 7‏ ا5 


The Hindusthan Soap 


52 
& Chemical Works. 


নি) B. 0. Paul & Sons 
Private Ltd. 


B. of” Paul & Sons, 
Ltd. 


58 ( 


64 (S) Messrs. Standard 
Stores & Agency 


Private Ltd. 


for 
Messrs, Standard Stores 
& Agency Ltd. 
Mesers. Standard 
Trading Co. 


Trading Co. 
Mesers. Roadways 
Motors, 


(8) Messrs. Friend's 
Engineerin Co. 
Private L 


Friend’s 


or 
gs i Co 
neering 2+ 

ita, 


89 (8) Messrs, Soor, N 
Coomer and as 


Private Ltd 


ee Boor, N 
Coomar & Co,, L 


Messrs. Das Gupta & 
Co. 


Mossrs. Card Board 
Box of Calcutta Ltd. 


6} 


62 Messrs. Maniklal & Co. 


Pacific 


(S) Messrs. 
Automobiles 


Messrs. Mohammedally 
Valji Ltd. 


(8) Messrs. Bharat 
Orient Corporation 
Private Ltd. 


jor 
Mesera, Bharat Orient 
Corporation Ltd. 


Messrs. D. K Boy & 
Co 


6? Messrs. Techno Engi- 


neering Corporation. 


Ram 


“hr Meeers. 
یس‎ Singh & 


ent” Ram Nihora 
Singh. 

Messrs. Desco (Motors) 
Syndicate. 


Messrs. Central Hotel 


71 Messrs, Nadam & Oo. 


Explanatory "00 


menta made, the following Code letters have been 
used to indicate the manner in which the parti- 


Name of the dealer. 


Messrs, Calcutta Cyclo 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


Addreas and chief place Additional 


AUGUST 16, 1956 


No. and date Goods for the use in manu- 


of 10108110988, lace of of registration facture or in the exeoution 
usiness, certificate, of contracts. 
8 4 5 6 
Pp-88/B B. XK. Paul a 8H /2326A, ere 
Avenue, Caloutta. 12-5-55. 
23 مار‎ Street, ‘a 8H /2048A, ৫৪ 
Calcutta 10-38-62. 
26 Chitpur DBridze Ap- 463 Grand SH/134B, وو‎ 
proach Road, Calcutta. Trunk Road, 28-8-2. 
Calcutta. 
66 Belgachia Road, Cal- 2 SH/1025A, লি 
cutta. 24-7-61. 
2/2 Gopal Chandra Chat- 7 دو ,شھ811/21564‎ 
terjee Road, Caloutta. 8-1-53. 
24 Chittaranjan Avenue, نی‎ 0 
Calcutta. 23-0-8, 
14 Chittaranjan Avenue, 7 81/2186۸ کو‎ 
Calcutta. 14-71۰ 
14 Bowbazar Street, a SL/860A, ak 
Calcutta. 17-11-48, 
(8) 21 reap Stroet, 3 88, eee 
Calcutta 18-12-54. * 
P-82 7 Row Exten- 
sion. 
6A 1 Durga Pituri Lane, “ ae ات‎ 8/296, eevee 
‘aloutta. 4-12-61, 
30 College Street, Cal- Calcutta-1 8SL/27B, پووو‎ 
০0৮9, 28-9-1, 
18 Mahendra 8۰۲٣ -7 8L/2406A, (A) এমা and board 
Strect, Calcutta. 5-6-6560. and printing ink. 
(8) 11 শপ Bowbazar Street, be 8L/2238A, دہ‎ 
age 21-8-B1. 
2/4A Sitaram Ghose 
Street, Calcutta. ۱ 
110 Baltakkhana Road, oe 8L/2968A, e©oes 
Calcutta. ۔‎ 1-6-56. 
(8) 18B Central Avenue, 8L/2666A, esas 
Calcutta, ]0-9- 62, 
0? 
4, Princep Strect, 
Calcutta. 
67 Bentinck Street, ee 8610۸, وووم٭م‎ 
alcutta. 1-6-55. 
1 Madan Street, Calcutta 7 0 — wee 
(8) 6/8 Madan Street, os (8)8L/2098A, ৮০৪৪ 
Calcutta, or 
jor TL/1524A, 
6A 8. N. Banerjee Road, 25-41. 
Calcutta 
85 Bowbazar Street, 7 81/2811: mee 
Calcutta 16-1-56, 
OA Woodgola Coal 7 075৮7 eeu 
Depot, Sealdah, Cal- 11-58-49. 
cutta. 
(8) 21 Princep Street, (8) ۰, ৪৪৪৬ 
Calcutta 10? 
for EL/2124A, 
6 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta. 29-6-50. 
(8) ب1ا تر 4‘ ,1ن نظ تسین‎ eves 
anjan Avenue, 
Calcutta, BH/15385A, 
for 4-7-47, 
40 Ballygunge Circular 
Road, Calcutta. 
)۶)ِ Ld লো Bhavan, ۰ 75 eee 
tanjan Avenue, 
Calcutta, B ens 
Sor 6-48, 
40 Road, Calevtta, Circular 
alcutta 
the amend- 


(A) means ۰ءء‎ 


[Parr I 
Goods for resalo, Date of 
amend- 
ment. 
7 8 
(A) Saw machine parts ১, 14-7-56 
eure 6۔14‎ 


(A) Lime, کے سای‎ sand, চা 14-7-66 
chips, vels, pens 
pipe কাপ anks 
sani tary fittings. 1 
(A) Caustic soda, cocoanut 1$-7-66 
oil, mohua oil, groundnut 
oil, castor 011, linseed oil, 
sodium ailicato. 
৬৬৬৪ 14-0 
২5৪৩ 18-7-56 
(D) Cocogem .. ae 16-7-56 
(A) Watches, needle and 6۔16‎ 
motor vehicle parts. 
৪৬১৪৪ 16-7-66 
eee 18-7-56 
৪৪৪৩ 18-7-6 
pas 18-7-66 
evo 18-0 
(A) Paper and atationery 18-70 
goods. 
wee 90-7-56 
(A) Rosin, turpentine oil .. 21756 
(A) Machinery and steel 24-7-56 
products, 
eee 24-7-56 
(A) سی نت‎ motors, ۰+ 240 
rators and electrical 
atores. 
24-7-66 
0۔24‎ 
রা ظ2‎ 06 
Te 25-7-66 


culars of a registration have been amended :— 


(D) means “Delete’’. 
(9) means “Substitute”, 


Part IT] 


۲ 


= 


No. 79C.T.—2nd August 1956.—In 
vt the ‘provisions of section 9 of the Bengal 
Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI 
of 1941), the following names and addresses of 
registered dealers together with a description of 


Serial 
No. 


1 2 


1 Oriental 
Works. 


Kanshaiya‏ و 
Mista‏ 


nna Bhandar. 


$ Radha 
Bhandar, 


Gobinda 


4 .ھا‎ Shantilal ee 


6 Gobindram Kaliprosad 


6 Dibakar 
Industries. 


Power 


7 Messrs. Amiya Kumar 
Roy Choudhury. 


8 Messrs. Chainrup 
Sampatram. 


9 Mossrs. Bilash Singh & 
Co., Ltd. 


10 Shrinath Ramswarup 

11 Mangru Ram Bhakat 

12 Vivekananda Medical 
Stores. 


48 Labh Chand Kandol 


14 Bhyam Sundar Prosad 


16 Ablnash Chandra 
Matilal Baha. 


46 Sree Durga Bhandar 


Name of tho dealor. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


Address and chief place Additional 
bual lace of 
usiness, 


of business. 


Knitting 5A 76900) Street, Cal- 
cutta. 


Lal 84 Lower Chitpore Road, 


Calcutta. 


12/8 Lower Chitpore 
Road, Calcutta 


8 Karbala Md. 8৮৬৩৬, 
Calcutta. 


26/1 Armenian Street, 
alcutta. 


4 পাপ Roy Street, 
Calcutta. 


9 Clive Row, Calcutta 


9 Armenian ۵8٢۲۵ 


Calcutta. 


16 and 17 Mangoe Lano, 
0. 


28 Strand Road, Calcutta 


Balurghat, Woat 
Dinajpur. 
Mohanbati, ام7‎ ۶۰ 


West Dinajpur. 


Raigunj, West Dinajpur 


” 


Gazole, Malda ٠ 
Balurghat, Weat 
Dinajpur. 


21111, West Dinajpur .. 


pursuance 


4 


with 


No. and date Goods for the use in manu 


certificate. 


5 


Goods for resale. 
of registration facture or in the execution 
of contracts. 
6 7 
Yarns and A, B, C certifled Hoslery than ., ’ 


11100122174, 


4-10-51. 


OL/1972A, 
7-6-60. 


CL/2688A, 
80-09-41. 


CSIT/2506A, 
5-8-50. 


007۸, 
20-7-40. 

08611, 
1 4-0-8. 

08717120364, 
17-51۰ 


0.0۸۰ 
26-09-41. 


BL/2849A, 
14-12-51. 


LR/1873A, 
27-2-60, 


ML/194A, 
14-1-60. 


ML/148A, 
28-12-62. 


ML/125A, 
14-10-60. 


ML/21A, 
11-6-47, 


ML/187A, 
7-09-49. 


ML/186A, 
16-11-49. 


by the purchasing dealer 
to be required for use in 
any process In the manu- 
ا"‎ of hosiery than for 
sale. 


Atta, flour, ghee, tea, coal 

and 

(1) Any other raw materials. 

(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
,ما مم‎ accessories and con- 
sumable stores. 

(8) Building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures 
সাল for construction, 
fitting out or repair of any 
building. 

Certified by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
use in any process in the 


manufacture of aweetmeat, 
nonta and tea for sale. 


oor 


Coal, timber, bamboo, ropes, 
chimney, iron taterials 
and A, B certified by the 
purchasing dealer to be 
required for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of bricks for sale. 


৩৪৬৪ 


رر .بی 


৪ ৯৬৪ 


৪৪৫৬৬ 


ہوم 


৮৩৪৫৪ 


Rice, mustard oil, drugs and 
medicines, tollet goods. 


Coir yarn, rope and spices . 


Piccegoods, jute , cereals 
general merchandise as and 
when required for resale. 


Machinery parts, hardware, 
পা gia electrical goods, 


Cloth, bamboo .. 7. 
Bullions 7۰ 7 


Building and plumbing mate- 
rials) ٢٤۷٣٣ execution of 
contract works. 


Mustard oil and containors .. 


Mill-made and  handloom 
cloth, readymade garments 
woollen cloth, kirana an 
stationery goods. 


Patent medicines নর 

Mill-made, handloom and 
powerloom cloth, ready- 
made garments, hosiery 
goods and sugar. 

Sugar, gur, gunny bags, 
cigarottes, salt, aa 


kerosene oil, cloth, mustard 

oil, cocoanut 0118 oervals, 

flour, matches, handloom 

woven cloths, groundnut, 
erhatta. 


Grocery, rice, paddy, bamboo 
mats. 


Cloth, atationery goods, fancy 
goods, toys, shooa, leather 
goods, hard bucketa, 


garncnts, 
goada, soap, 
biri, 


crokvry wares and general 
merchandise as aud when 
required for resale, 


3113 


the goods covered by their registration certificates 
whose registrations under the Act were cancelled 
effect from the date noted against each of 
them are published for general information :— 


Date of 
Cancella- 


tion. 
8 


21-7-56 


21-7-56 


24-0 


14-7-66 


17-0 


1870 


24-7-56 


26-7-56 


24-7-56 


170 


24-7-56 


24-7-56 


8406 


24-7-56 


260-0 


240 


19 


21 


24 


20 


27 


80 


81 


82 


88 


84 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


Namo of the dealer. Addreas and chief place Additional No. and date 
of business. lace of 
usiness. 
2 8 4 
Santi Bhandar Hili, West Dinajpur ہ‎ ea 
Balurghat Town Com- Balurghat, West Dinaj- oe 
mercial Co., Ltd. pur. 
Messrs. Kastern Mer- 220 Diamond Harbour و‎ 
cantile Corporation. Road, Behala, Calcutta. 
Messrs. Bonafide & Co. Jadavpore Station road, ক 
Jadavpore, 24-Par- 
ganas. 
Messrs. Monmohan 1385107785৮ Bazar P. O. . 
B Surceh Bashirhat,, 24-Parga- 
Chandra Bakshi. DAS. 
Provat Textile Mills... 117B Grey Street, Cal- : 
cutta. 
Dutta Publishers Ltd. 18 Bhupendra Bose Ave- ۰ 
nue, Calcutta. 2 — 


Kalipada Bhattacharjee 5A سو‎ Road, Cal- 
cu 


11-D Temple Street, Cal- 


Messrs. China Ship 
Ltd. 07 cutta. 


18 Chandney Chowk 8Str- 
ect, Calcutta. 


Mesars. Bualitex Hoai- 
ery. 


185, 162 and 168 Cha 
ney Chowk Street, Cal- 
cutta. 


Measrs. Ghose Binha & 
Co. 


Messrs. Bonomali 8to- 156 Bowbazar Street, 
res. Calcutta. 


Messra. Sealdah Gra- 166 Bowbagar Street, 
mophone Mart. Calcutta. 

Mesars, Lakhi Factory 118 Bowbazar Street, 
Calcutta. 

Mesara Debesah Mu- 8 Hidaram Banerjee 


kherjee & Co., Ltd. Lane, Calcutta. 


Mesars, Mohammed- 71 Princop Street, Cal- 
bhai Dawodbhal, cutta, 

Prakash Chandra Tamilpara, 13801775101, 
Dutta & Sons. Hooghly. 

Messrs. Kanai | Lal i Lower Circular Road, 
Auddy & Co. lcutta. 


ee 


of registration facture or in the execution 


certificate. 


5 


ML/186A, 
16-12-51. 


ML/87A, 
26-09-41. 


PG/1788 
18-68. 2, 


PG/860A, 
30-5- 49. 


PG/1288A, 
4- 51. 


8H/1062A, 
17-0-40. 


8117/2283۸, 
4-1-4. 


8H/1278A, 
29-7-48. 


8۸۰ 
12-2-0, 


81/24, 
19-8-53, 


SL/446A, 
25-0-1۰. 


81/4, 
16-5-42. 


8L/1484A, 
16-09-48. 


81/8565۸, 
1-5-42. 


8), 
28-4-49. 


914/1 0408, 
22-6-60. 


8۸. 
16-0-1. 


TL/1472A, 
12-1-1961. 


4 


Explanatory note.—Regarding “goods for use in 
manufacture or in the execution of contracts’’ the 
following Code letters have been used to indicate 
the meanings noted against each :— 

(A) Other raw materials, 


of contracts. 


6 


Blacksheet, M. 8. rod, leather 
tallow and A, B certified 
by tho purchasing dealer 
to be required for use in 
any process in manufacture 
of ges, safety hasps, 
tower bolts, brasa fitting 
for 8818. 


Yearn, febrics and A, B certi- 
fied by the purchaaing dealer 
to be required for use in any 
process in the manufacture 
of hosiery goods for sale. 


و٭ھ 4 


৬৪৬৬ 


ooo 


بر مزب 


Black sheet, galvanized sheet, 
tin revets, paint brush, 
rods and wire, English lock 
and pin handler. 


Baw mill accessoriva, tools 
and implementa and ہگ‎ 
any other raw materials, 
(2) plant, machinery, spare 

accessories 9 and 
consumable stores, (3) 
building or plumbing ma- 
terlals or fixtures, required 
for construction, tting 
out or repair of any build- 
ing certified by the pur- 
chasing dealer to be requi- 
red for use in any process 
In the manufacture of 
meer and timber products 
of all sorta for sale. 


(B) 


Goods for the use in manu- 


Goods for resale. Dato of 
08000118) 

tion. 

7 8 

Mill-made cloth ১, 2৫টি 

Cloth, iron materials, shoes, © 24-7.54 
leather goods, stationory 
articles and printing mate- 

21018, 
Jute goods, vegetable, tur- 16-7-56 
entine oil, bees’ wax, tea, 
urmeric. 
৪৪০৪৪ 25-7-0 

Backets, hinges, screws, nails 26-06 
and hardware matorials, 
couptrymade ropes, paints, 
varnish, coal-tar. 

Finished good of yarn, fab- 14-7-0 
rica, hosiery. 

Tea, confectioneries, station- 14-7-56 
07168, provisions. 

All kinds of 011 7 14-7-0 

Provisions, gunny bags, jute, 18-7-56 
twine, hessian, carpets, 
druggete, shellac, ofl secds 
and oils, stationery, cement 
and machinery rubber, 
tyres, motor vehicles, 

Textiles, blankets, towels, 18-7-0 
bedshee pillow cover, 
readymade garments, shoes, 
chemicals, glassware, corka, 
bottles, pho aphs, hoai- 
ery goods, sports goods, 

Building and furniture fit- 18-7-0 
tings. 

Hardware, brassware, Bel 18-7-66 
ware, onamelwaro, 0017). 
nium ware, galvanized 
goods, german ۸۱۱۷۶۲ goods, 
porcelain goods, wooden 
goods, tranks, suitcases, 
mats, stone-made goods, 
ropes and calcium carbide. 

নি records, radio, 18-7-0 
electrical] goods, stationery, 
photo an cycle goods, 

18-0 کے 

Timber and timber producta, 20-7-0 
Flemp and sunn, rope cuttings 20-7-0 
। 

Ghee, rico, flour, cement, dal, 90-17:6 
galt, oll, bran, 01105868, 
spices, gur, tea, soap, barley, 
matches. 

Cloth oe oe 20-7-5l 


Plant, machinery, spare parts, accessorié 


and consumable stores. 


(0) Building 0 


plumbing materiale 9% 


fixtures required for construction, fitting 


out or repair 


of any building. 


Part J] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3115 


সস 


No. 80C.T.—2nd August 1956.—I1n pursuance of 
the provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 27A of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, it is notified for 
general information that the following declaration 
forms have been reported to be lost, destroyed or 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whom 
these declaration forms were issued and are invalid 
for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1941, and Bengal Sales Tax Rules :— 


Serial No. of the declaration Name, address and registration 
forms reported to be lost, certificate No. of the regis- 
destroyed or stolen. tered dealer to whom issued 

and from whom lost destroy- 
ed or stolen. 


(1) (2) 
1, A/O-173265, A/O-173289, Mesars. Sankar Oil Co., Rani- 
A/O-178293. gan. AS/060A. 
2, A/O-336901 Messrs. Podder & Co., Khagra, 
Murshidabad. KR/1635A. 


8. 410-821610 to A/O-321515 Messrs. Fashion House, Man- 
mohan Ghose Street, Krish- 
nagar, Nadia. KR/1621A. 


A. C. ROY, Commissioner. 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 
ORDER 


No. 6837/M.1C0-78/55.—4th August 1956.-- 
Whereas the Corporation of Calcutta has recom- 
mended by a resolution passed in conformity with 
the provisions of clause (xxi) of section 526 of 
the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 (West Bengal 
Act XXXIII of 1951), at its meeting held on the 
24th December 1954, that the expenditure of 
Rs. 5,748-13 incurred toby the Corporation او‎ 
Jaleutta for opening a stah with charts, models 
aud other exhibits at the exhibition held at 
Kalyani be sanctioned ; 

And whereas the Governor is of the opinion 
that the said expenditure was incurred for a 
matter which was likely to promote the public 
health and convenience of the persuns resident in 
Calcutta; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by clause (xxi) of section 526 of the 
Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951, the Governor 18 
pleased to declore that the said expenditure of 
Rs, 5,748-13 was incurred for a purpose which was 
likely to promote the public health and con- 
venience of the persons resident in Calcutta 
within the meaning of the said clause. 


By order of the Governor, 


N. M. BARDHAN, Jt. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 
No. 6670/M.8R-22/56.—31lst July 1956.—In 
paragraph 2 of Government notification 


No. 4920/M.3R-22/656, dated the 6th June 1956, 
published at page 2276 of Part I of the Culceutta 
Gazette, dated the 2186 June 1956, for the figures, 
letters and words 9186 July, 1956’? read ‘16th 
September, 19567’, 

By order of the Governor, 


B. P. BASU, Aast. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
Medical 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No. Medl.5812/5P-16/56.—30th July 1956.— 


The Governor is pleased to make the following 
further amendments to the rules for the conduct 
of the Special HWsaamination for Pharmacists pub- 


lished with notification No. Med1.8189/5P-29/56, 


dated the 16th September 1955, as subsequentiy 
winended, namely :— 


Amendments 


(i) In rule 3 of the said rules delete the words 
“on any. ground’, 

(10) After rule 3 of the rules add the following 
Proviso :— ॥ 

“Provided that the Secretary of the State 
Medical Faculty, West Bengal, may, for 
special reason to be recorded in writing, 
order refund of the fees in respect of a 
class or classes of candidates.”’ 


By order of the Governor, 
1). N. CHAKRAVARTI, Secy. 


No. Medl./5760/D.H.S. {201-54 /55.—27th July 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Dr. 
N. N. Sen, M.B.B.S.(Cal.), M.D., D.C.P. 
(Izucknow), to act temporarily for a period of 
three months as an Assistant Surgeon in the cadre 
of the West Bengal Medical and Health Service 
and to post him as Pathologist, Pathlogical and 
Bacteriological Department, Seth Sukhiall 
Kurnani Memorial Hospital, Calcutta, with effect 
from the date on which he joins the post. 

No. Medl./5772/D.H.S. /18-14/56.—28th July 
1956.—The Governor was pleased to place the 
services of Dr. ১, C. Majumdar, M.B., of the 
West Bengal Medical and Ilealth Service, last 
employed as Civil Surgeon, Burdwan, tempo- 
rarily at the disposal of the Ilome (Jails) Depart- 
ment for appointment as a Special Officer under 
the Prisons Directorate, West Bengal, with effect 
from the date on which he made over charge of 
the post of Civil Surgeon, Burdwan. 


No. Med!./5773/D.H.S./18-14/56.—28th July 
1956.— The Governo1 was pleased to appoint Jr. 
Dhirendra Nath Mukherjee, M.B.(Cal.), D.C.H. 
(Lond.) of the West Bengal Medical and Health 
Service, Teacher of Medicine, Ronaldshay Medical 
School, Burdwan, temporarily to act until turther 
orders as Civil Surgeon, Burdwan, im addition to 
his own duties with effect from the date on which 
he took over charge of the post vice Dr. S. ا‎ 
Majumdar. 


Calcutta.—No. Medl.5831/F-49/56.—30th July 


1956.—The Governor is pleased to confirm 
Shri Amarnath Sen, permanent Registrar, 


now acting as Assistant Secretary, Department of 
Health, in the post of Assistant Secretary in the 


- same department with effect from Ist July 1956. 


24-Parganas.—No. Medl.5873/D.11.S./1B-79/ 
66.—Ist August 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to appoint Dr. (Mrs.) Bani Ghosh, M.B., tempo- 
rarily for a period of three months as an Assistant 
Surgeon in the cadre of the West Bengal Medical 
and Health Service and to post her as Anaes- 
thetist at the Kanchrapara Tuberculosis Hospital 
with effect from the date on which she joins the 
post, vice Dr. Subodh Kumar Mukherjee. 

2. This cancels this department notification 
No. Medl.3611/D.11.8./ /20P-1/56, dated the Sth 
May 1956. 

No. Med1].6886/3D-34/56.—Ist August 1956.— 
The Governor is plea to grant Shri Tapabrata 
Ray Mahasay, Inspector of Drugs, West Bengal, 
in the West Bengal General Service, earned leave 
for 30 (thirty) davs with effect from the 12th June 
1956 or any subsequent date from which the leave 
is availed of under rule 16707) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules (Part J). 

By order of the Uovernor, 


N.C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


Public Health 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No, P.H.27567/2H-101/55.—27th July 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to appoint Shri Ranjit 
Kumar Basuk, B.E., Assistant Engineer, Health 


3116 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


یں رر سے 
ٹپ ےہ ہد পপি পপি প্র‏ ہر 


সিক্ত 


Centre under the Dtrectorate of Health Services 
(Public Health Engineering), West KHengal, 
temporarily to act, until further orders, as Assis- 
tant Engineer, West Circle under the said Direc- 
torate with effect from Ist June 1956, 7766 Shri 
A. K. Ilore appointed as Personal Assistant to 
the Chief Engineer, Public Health Engineering, 
West Bengal. 


No. P.H.2758/2E-101/55.—27th July 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to appoint Shri Susanta 
Kumar (Ghosh, B. Tech. (Hons.), temporarily to 
act, until further orders, as Assistant Hngimeer, 
Health Centre under the Directorate of Health 
Services (Public Health Engineering), West 
Bengal, with effect from 18th June 1956, vice 
Shri Ranjit Kumar Basak. 


2. Thies cancels this department notification 


No. P.11.2210/2E-101/55, dated the ISth June 


1956. 
No. P.1./2763/8L-31/55.—27th July 1956.— 


The Governor was pleased to grant Dr. Amal 
Krishna Pal, M.B., D.P.H., Subdivisional Mealth 
Officer, Ghatal, earned leave for the period from 
the 19th May 1956 to the 26th May 1956, under 
rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part I, in extension of the leave granted to him 
in notification No. P.H.1039/3L-31/55, dated 19th 
March 6۰. 


No. P.H. | 2770/ W-68 /56.—28th July -1956.—In 
pursuance of rule (8) of the Rules for the Prepara- 
tion, Publication and Execution of Projects for 


Water Supply, Drainage or Sewerage 
by Municipal Authorities, it is hereby 


notified for general information that ۶6ط‎ 
scheme for augmentation — of _water-supply 
of the Budge Budge Municipality within the dis- 
trict of 24-Parganas has been approved by (tovern- 
ment and the particulars of the scheme are as 
follows :— 

1. (a) General description of the scheme.—The 
waterworks scheme of the Budge Budge Munici- 
pality has been prepared with a view to -aving a 
total population of 27,000 with 10 per cent. rise in 
population. The basis of per capita daily supply 
is about 124 gallons and the total daily supply of 
3,36,000 gallons has been provided. The supply 
mains hyve been proposed to be set up only where 
the demand is the greatest with provisions for 
adequate future extensions of the distribution 
system. 


Two supply zones have heen provided—one at the 
Municipal office compound and another’ on 
acquired land at R. N. Thakur Road. The 
following works are proposed in the scheme: سے‎ 


(i) Installation of two tube-wells having 
capacity of 14,000 gallons per hour to 
supply the respective zones. 

(77) Installation of two sets of bore-hole 
turbine pumping arrangements with 
pump houses. 

(711) Two Elevated Storage Reservoirs each with 
30,000 gallons capacity. 

(jr) Distribution system consisting of 8 inches 
diameter, 6 inches diameter, 5 inches 
diameter, 4 inches diameter, 3 inches 
diameter mains. 

(v) Installation of total sixty-eight street taps 
with platforms for distribution. 


The tube-wells will work 12 hours each day in two 
shifts. After extension of the distribution system, 
the working hours will be increased to 16 hours a 
day. Total supply of water will be available for 
consumption in ten hours. Provision of 150 house 
connections per zone has been contemplated. 


(b) An estimate of the cost of carrying it out.— 
Rs. 4,48, 000. 


(c) An estimate of the cost of maintaining it.— 


Rea. 18,214. 


(Parr T 


۲ 


(d) The source from which the cost will be met.— 


(5) Capital] cost—Qovernment grant— 
Rs. 2,98,667; Municipal contribution— 
Rs. 1,49,338. 

(28) Maintenance cost—By imposition uf water 
rates by the municipality. 


2. (a) The total annual charge to be incurred 
by reason of the water-supply and to be met by a 
water-rate.—Rs, 18,214. 


(b) The percentage of such water-rate on the 
annual value of holding.—Two per cent. on the 
annual value of all holdings situated within a 
radius of 500 feet from the stand post and 1$ per 
cent. on the annual value of those holdings situated 
beyond radius of 50Q feet but within 1,000 feet. 


(c) The average incidence of such water-rate per 
head of the populatton.—Annas 15-6p. per head. 


The scheme will be taken into consideration on 
or after the Sth October 1956 and any objection 
or suggestion with regard thereto which may be 
received by the undersigned on or before that date 
will be ame considered, 


Nadia.—No. P.17.2837/1M-58/56—Ist August 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Dr. B. 
K. Chakraborty, M.B., Superintendent, Ranaghat 
Cooper’s Camp Relief Hospital, temporarily to 
act until further orders as Supervising Medicai 
(Officer of Health, Ranaghat Transit Centre, with 
efiect from the date on which he joins the post, 
vice Dr. Gouranga Roy, transferred. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. ©. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


COTTAGE AND SMALL-SCALE 
INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 2449Cot. /4A-13/(1)/56.—8rd August 1956. 
—The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Manilal 
Banerjee, B.A., Officer on Special Duty (Hand- 
loom), to act on a temporary basis as Joint Direc- 
tor of Industries (Handloom) and Ex officio Joint 
Registrar of Co-operative Societies, West Bengal, 
with effect from Ist August 1956 until further 
orders. 

By order of the Governor, 


A. MITRA, Secy. 


COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES 
DEPARTMENT 


Commerce 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 4184Com.—lJ 1th August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is ‘pleased to appoint Shri Sudhansu Chandra 
Banerjee, B.A., officiating Registrar, Commerce 
and Industries Department, Government of West 
Bengal, substantively and permanently to that 
post with effect from the 16th July 1955. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DAS GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES 
Food and Supplies 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 7717F.8./FD /Sectt. /11./1/538.—2nd August 
1956.—The Governor was pleased to grant Shri 
Prodyot Kumar Guha Thakurta, Assistant Direc- 
tor in the Directorate of Statistics, earned leave for 
eighteen days with effect from 1101) July 1956 
under rule 168(1) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part ۰ 
By order of the Governor, 


A. K. MITRA, Dy. Secy. 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3117 
DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND A plan of the Jand may be inspected in the 
REVENUE eae of the Deputy Commissioner of Cooch 

enar, 
Land Acquisition ae سی‎ of set powers conferred by the 
নানী ۱ ا۲٠۸۸‎ section, the (sovernor igs pleased to 
NOTIFICATIONS authorize the officers for the time being engaged 
Chatal-Nadia.—No. 13392L.A.—28th July in the undertaking, with their servants and 


1956.——Whereas the functions of the Central 
Government under the Land Acquisition Act, 
1594 (I of 1894), in relation to the acquisition of 
land for the purposes of the Union ites been 
entrusted to the State Government پا‎ 
notification No, 20/1/55Judl.(1), dated the 
l4th May 1955, issued by the Government of 
India, in the Ministry of Home Affairs, under 
clause (1) of article 258 of the Constitution of 
India ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (c) of section 3 of the said Act, 
read with the said notification, the Governor is 
leased to appoint Shri Hari Sadhan Mukherjee, 

eputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector and 
Subdivisional Officer, Ghatal, to be an Additional 
Land Acquisition Officer, Nadia, to perform im 
the district of Nadia the functions of a Collector 
under the said Act, in relation to the acquisition 
of land for the purposes of the Union, with effect 
from the Ist August 1956 or any date thereafter 
on which the officer takes over charge. 


Chatal-Nadia.— No. 138931. A.—28th July 1956. 
—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 
(c) of section 3 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), the Governor 18 pleased to امم‎ 
Shii Wari Sadhan Mukherjee, Deputy Magistrate 
and Deputy Collector and Subdivisional Officer, 
(thatal, to be an Additional Land Acquisition 
Officer, Nadia, to perform in the district of Nadia 
the functions of a Collector under the said Act, in 
relation to the acquisition of lands for 4ublic 
purposes (except the purposes of the Union) and 
for Companies, with effect from the Ist Angust 
1956 or any date thereafter on which the officer 
takes over charge. 


Chatal-Nadia,—No, 13394L.A.—28th July 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by clause (a) 
of sub-section 2 of the West Bengal Land (Requi- 
sition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, (West Bengal 
Act II of 1948), the Governor is pleased to 
specially appoint Shri Hari Sadhan Mukherjee, 
Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector und 
Subdivisional Officer, Ghatal, to be an Additional 
land Acquisition Officer, Nudia, to perform the 
functions of a Collector under the said Act in 
the district of Nadia with effect from the Ist 
August 1956 or any date thereafter on which the 
officer takes over charge. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. BANERJEE, 


Member, Board of Revenue, and 566۳۰ 
to the Govt. of West Bengal (6 offciv) 


IONE 


Cooch Behar.—No. 13478L.A.(F.W.).—s80th 
July 1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor 
that land is likely to he needed tor a public 


purpose, not being a purpose of the Union, 
namely, for the construction of the Dinhata- 
(osainmari Road, in the taluk of  Jhuripara, 


thak No. 716, pargana Dinhata, district Cooch 
Behar, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising parts of cadastral plot Nos, 54, 
فا‎ and measuring, more or less, 0.04 of en acre, 
is likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense within the aforsaid 
taluk of Jhurimara; 

Mds notificatlon is made,, under the provi 
sions of section 4 of Act T of 1894, to all whom 
٢ may concern 


workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all] other acts required or permitted by that 
section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is 
given in the locality, file an objection in writing 
before the Deputy Commissioner of Cooch Behar. 


Hooghly.—No. 13480L.A.—30th July 1956.-- 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that Jand is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, {or the 
construction of Maternity Home Children Wel- 
fare Centre and TB. Clinic of Pandua Union 
Buard, in the village of Pandua, jurisdiction list 
No. 108, thana Fandua, tpargana Pandua, zilla 
Nooghly, it is hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising cnadastral plot Nos. 984, 985 and 
2403 and measuring, more or less, 0.69 of an 
acre, 18 likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the expense of Pandua Union Board 
within the aforesaid village of Pandua; 


This notification 1s made, under the — provi- 
sions of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom 
it may concern. 


A plan of the Jand may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Tand Acquisition Collector, 
Hooghly. 


[In exercise of the powers conferred hy the 
aforesaid section, the Governor 18 pleased to 
authorize the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all other acts required or permitted by that 
section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of this substance of this notification 18 
given in the locality, file an objection in writing 
before the Collector of Hooghly. 


Midnapore.—No. 135941..A.—Ist August 1956.— 
Wherens it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed, for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely. for the diver- 
sion of Contai Local Board No. 88, Tikrapara- 
Routara, in the village of Bagmari, jurisdiction 
list No. 116, thana Pataspur, pargana Pataspur, 
district Midnapore, it is hereby notified that a 
piece of land comprising parts cadastral plot 
Nos. 186, 189, 190, 194, 195, 207, 208, 218, 
24), 221, 222, 225, 226, 227, 228 and 271 
and measuring, more or less, 1.36 acres, is likely 
ta be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at 
the expense of the Midnapore Ihstrict Board 
within the aforesaid village of Bagman. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4, Act I. of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected 21) the 
office of the Collector, Midnapore. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
uforesaid section the (tovernor ا٦ھ‎ pleased — to 
nuthorise the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servanta and work- 
men, to enter upon and survey the land and do 
ull other acta required or permitted by that sec« 
100, 


8118 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr 1 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection io the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days atter the date on which pubhe 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Midnapore. 


Malda.—No. 18596L.A.—I1st August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the construc- 
tion of buildings for the Vivekananda Vidya 
Mandir and also for an approach road from muni- 
cipal road to the institution in the village cof 
Makdumpur, jurisdiction” list No, 68, thana 
English Bazar, pargana Bhatia Gopalpur, district 
Malda, it ig hereby notified that a piece of land 
comprising parts of cudastral plot Nos. 1006 and 
1016 and measuring, more or less, 0.20 of an acre, 
is likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the expense of the Ramkrishha Mission 
within the aforesaid village of Makdumpur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Land Acquisition Collector, Malda. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the ofhcers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the aqcuisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Malda. 


24.Parganas.—No. 13598L..A.—Ist August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
extension of schoo] building and play ground for 
10107 Mohanchand 1. E. School, in the village of 
Taldi, jurisdiction list No. 78, thana Canning, 
না Sundarban, district 24-Parganas, it is 
১৪761 notified that a piece of land comprising 
portions of cadastral plot Nos. 236-238 and 473 
and measuring, more or less, 3.09 acres, is likely 
tu be needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
partly at the public expense and partly at the 
expense of Takdi (Mohanchand H. E. School, 
within the aforesaid village of Taldi. 


This notification is made, under the provisiona 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected 
office of the Special Land Acquisition 
Alipore, 24-Pargnas. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section the Governor is pleased ৮ 
aulliorise the offivers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and work- 
men, to enter upon and survey the land and do al) 
other acts reyuired or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in the above land, 
who has any objection to acquisition thereof, may, 
wihin thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, fil an objection in writing before 
the Collector of 24-Parganas. 


in the 
Officer, 


Midnapore.—No. 136121.A.(P.W.).—IJat August, 
1956.—The Governor ia pleased to cancel ac much 
of the notification No. 69221,.A.(P.W.), dated the 
ith April 1955, under section 4 of the Land 
74715 Act IT of 1894, published at rage 

100, Part 1 of the Calcutta Gazette of 218% Tees 
دہ‎ amended by Erratam No. 13608L.A.(P.W.), 


dated Ist August 1956, os relates to two pieces of 
land measuring, more or less, 0.28 of an acre and 
comprising part of cadastral plot No. 1594 of 
village Kanakpur, jurisdiction list No. 82 and 
part of cadastral plot No. 1002 of village 
Dakshin Mechgram, jurisdiction list No. 74, in 
thanu Puskura, out of the total area of 22.81 acres 
notified for acquisition for the construction of the 
Ist mile of the Panskura Ghatal Road (portion 
from the Ifowrah-Kharugpur Railway line at 
Kanakpur to the northern side of the Cuttack 
Road) in the district of ‘Midnapore. 


24-Parganas.—No. 13604L.A.(P.W.).—Lst 
August 1956.—Whereas the Governor is satisfied 
that land is needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the diverson 
of Diamond Harbour-Kakdwiy, Road, at the 27th 
amd 28th miles in the village of Kakdwip, juris- 
diction list No. 39, thana Kakdwip, district 24- 
Parganas, it is hereby declared that pieces of 
land comprising parts of cadastral plot Nos. 99, 
1600, 127, 180 and 183 and measuring, more or 
less, .34 of an acre, are needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the public expense with the 
aforesaid village of Kakdwip. 

This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Alipore, 24-Parganas, 


ERRATUM. 


Midnapore.—No. 13608L.A.(P.W.).—l1st August 
1956.—In notification No. 6922L.A.(P.W.), dated 
the 7th April 1955, under section 4 01 
the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published 
at mage 1676, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of 
the 2lst idem in respect of the acquisition of 
land for the construction of the Ist mile of the 
Fanskura-Ghatal Road (portion from the Howrah- 
Kharagpur Railway line at Kanakpur to the 
northern side of the Cuttack Road) in the district 
of Midnapore, following changes will occur :— 


Read “22.81 acres” for “22.15 acres’? in 
line 10. 


Thana Panskura, village Kanakpur, jurisdiction 
list No. 82, 


Delete “1737, 1576, 1600” against cadastral 
plots in part. 


Read “1572, 1573’? against cadastral plots in 


full enstead of those against cadastral 
plots in part. 
Thana Panskura, village Dakshin Mechgram, 


jurisdiction list No. 74. 
Delete “975” against cadastral plots in part. 


NOTICE 
Hooghly.—No. = 13166L.A.(P.W.).—26th July 


1956.—Whereas 18.93 acres, more or Jess, of land 
situate in or near the villages of Krishnarampur, 
Jangalpara, Banakrishnapur, Gangadharpur and 
Manirampur, described below have been requisi- 
tioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948, by the person authorised under the 
paid section 3(1) for the purpose of providing 
facilities for irrigation and drainage namely, for 
sae Improvement of Metia Khal at 7th (to 9th 
mile, 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for آ‎ 
public purpose as aforesaid, 


This notice is given under the provisions af sub- 
section (18) of section 4 of the West Benyal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 


part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1966 3119 


ٹم ہہس سم سے تسم جسیم ھٹم ہدس مد سم تشپ وو পাটি সাল্লল্লাহু‏ 


Bengal Act II of 1948), ما‎ all whom it may con- 
cern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Toog lily. 

Description of land. 


Mouza Krishnarampur, jurisdiction list No. 59, 
police-station Chanditala, district Hooghly. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—108 and 1121. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—l, 4, 5, 6, 7, 
৪1) 82, 83, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 102, 104, 107, 108, 
109, 110) 111) 112, 120, 174, 178, 178, 179, 
180, 181, 272, 2738, 274, 277, 284, 285, 286, 
288, 311, 312, 328, 324, 327, 328, 3829, 344, 
717, 346, 359, 360, 364, 365, 366, 370, 371, 
1066, 1078, 1082, 1083, 1084, 1085, 1089, 1100, 
1101, 1102, 1119, 1120, 1122, 1142, 1148, 
1146, 1147, 1148 and 1861. 


IMauza Jangalpara, jurisdiction list No. 60, police- 
station Chanditala, district Hooghly. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—4017, 54387, 
5452, 5468, 6523, 6004 and 6013. 

Cadastral survey plots in  part—3960, 4016, 
543], 5482, 6453, 65436, 65440, 5450, 645], 


8499, 5454, 5455, 5457, 5458, 5461, 5462, 6464, 
6804, 5612, 5615, 5514, 5518, 5519, 5621, 5622, 
4624, 5027 and 6528. 


Mauza Banakrishnapur, jurisdiction list No. 61, 
police-station Chanditala, district Hooghly. 
Cadastral survey plots in purt—465, 466, 473, 
474, 475, 484, 550, 565, 581, 582, 583, 901, 904, 
934, 935, 951 and 966. 


Mauza Gangadharpur, jurisdiction list No. 63, 
police-station Chanditala, district Hooghly. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—3257, 3258, 
9259, 38260, 3262, 3263 and 3264. 


Mauza Maniranypur, jurisdiction list No. 64, 
police-station Chanditala, district Hooghly. 


Cadastral survey plot in full—2416. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—2414, 2415, 
2417, 2418, 2419, 2420, 2421, 2422, 2423, 2424, 
2425, 2458, 2444, 2455, 2459, 2460 and 2462. 


Bankura.—No. 154041..A.(P.W.).—28th July 
1956.—Whereas .35 of an acre, more or less, of 
land situate in or near the villages of Ekteswar 
and = Sankarhati described below has been 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of 
the West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisi- 
tion) Act, 1948, by the person authorised under 
the said section 3(1) for the purpose of providing 
facilities for transport and communication, 
namely, for diversion of Bankura-Taldangra 
S.H. for the approach road of the proposed 
Dwarkeswar Bridge. 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the 
Governor acquires such land being required for 
a public purpose as aforesaid. 

This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it 
may conern, 

۸ plan of the land may be inspected in’ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Bankura ; 

Description of land 


(1) Mauza Ekteswar, jurisdiction list No, 202 
molice-station Bankura, district Bankura. 


Cadastral aurvey plots in part—22, 23 and 26. 


(2) Mauza Sankarhati, jurisdiction list No. 203, 
10110. station Bankura, district Bankura, 


Cadastral survey plot in part—6, 


ERRATA 


Bankura.—No. 13326),A.(P.W.).—27th July 
1956.—In notice No. 4214L.A.(P.W.), dated the 
28th February 1956, under section 4(la) of the 
West Bengal Lund (Requisition and চিনা 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act ۱1 of 1948), publishec 
at page 883, Part I of the Calcutta Crazette of the 
15th March 1956, in ‘respect of the acquisition of 
lands for the purpose of providing facilities for 
transport and communication, namely, for the 
construction of Beliatore-Durgapur State Highway 
(miles 8th and 9th) in the village of Barjora, juris- 
diction list No. 46, police-station Barjora, district 
Bankura— : 


Under the ‘‘description of lands’’, delete the 


figures and word “491-403, 497, 498, 556- 
5908, 660, 962, 563, 566, 568, 469, 


884-889, 891, 943-945, 965-968, 2014, 
2017, 2019-2022, 2041, 2119, 2120, 
2165, 2170, 2172, 21738, 2175, 2177, 
2178, 2181, 2182, 2219-2221, 2224, 


2226, 2235-2240, 2544, 2549, 2551, 2681, 
2683 and 2717’’ against cadastral survey 
plots in full and read the same figures after 
the figure “483” against cadastral survey 
plots in part. 


Birbhum.—No. 13614L.A.(P?.W.).—lst August 
1956.—In notice No. 9392L.A.(P.W.), dated the 
2nd May 1956, under section 4(la) of the West 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
1948 (West Bengal Act IT of 1948), published at 
pages 1508-1304, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, 
K.ttraordinary, of the 22nd May 1956 in respect 
of the acquisition of land for the purpose of 
providing facilities for irrigation and drainage, 
namely, for excavation of distributary No. 2 Ex. 
Kopai South Main Canal in connection with the 
Mayurakshi Reservoir Project in the villages 
of Rasulganjhat, jurisdiction list No. 114 and 
4 others, police-station Bolpur, district Birbhum— 


Read. the figure “342” for the figure “382” in 
line 38. 


DECLARATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 13400L.A.—28th July 1956.— 
Whereas the functions of the Central Jovern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been cntrusted 
to the State Government by notification No. 201 
1/55Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued 
by the Government of Tndia in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of 
the Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public ‘purpose, being 8 pur- 
pose of the Union, namely, for remodelling of 
Ondal Station Yard in connection with the Second 
Five-Year Plan in the village of Shriram- 
pur, jurisdiction list No. 56, thana Qndal 
pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
declared that two pieces of land, one starting 
from chainage 4995 feet in mile 114 of 016 
Eastern Railway Main line and running gencrally 
towards west being attached to the 011 nerth 
boundary line of the sume line passing through 
the mauza Shrirampur up to chainage 1040 feet 
in mile 115 of the same 11106 and the other piece 
starting from chuinage 1370 feet in mile 115 of 
the sume line and running generally towards the 
same direction being attached to the same old 
boundary line passing through the same vllage 
and terminating at chainape 1685 1661 in the 
same mile und in the same village und varying 
in. width from 0 foot to 250 feet and being 
10041 feet ino length and altogether measuring, 
more oar lesa, 4.70 acres, are needed = for the 
aforesaid public purpor. at the publa orp. ns 
within the aforessid village of Shritampur, 


3120 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 
(1 of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Divisional 
Kngiueer No. II, Eastern Railway, Asansol. 


24.Parganas.—No. 13402L.A.—28th July 1966. 
—Whereus the Governer مد‎ satistied that land is 
needed for a pubhbe punpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the accommodation of 
Estates Acquisition Office in the village 4ہ‎ 
Muradpur, jurisdiction list No. 13, thana Behala, 
pargana Magura, district 24-Parganas, it 8 
hereby declared that a piece of land comprising 
portions of cadastral survey plot Nos, 711 and 
727 and measuring, more or less, 0.165 of an acre, 
is needed for the atoresaid public purpose at the 
public expense within the aforesaid village of 
Muradpur; 

This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may he inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Alypore, 24-Parganas. 


Midnapore.—No. 136061T,..A.(P.W.).—Ist August 
1956.—- Whereas the Governor is satisfied that 
land is needed for a public purpose, not being 2 
purpose of the Union, namely, for the construction 
of the Ist mile of the Panskura-Ghatal Road 
(portion from the Howrah-Kharagpur Railway 
line at Kanakpur to the northern side of the 
Cuttack Road) in the village of Kanakpur, juris- 
diction list 82, thana Panskura, district Midna- 
pore, it is hereby declared that pieces of land 
comprising cadastral plot Nos. 1556, 1657 and 
parts of cadastral plot Nos. 1554, 191 and 192 
and altogether measuring, more or less, 0.34 of an 
acre, are needed for the aforesaid pwblic purpose 
at the public expense within the aforesaid village 
of Kanakpur. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I, of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the lund may be inspected 
office of the Collector of Midnapore. 


in the 


۶1۸) 


Midnapore,—No. 13610L.A.(P.W.).—Ist August 
1946.—In declaration No. 9756L.A.(P.W.), dated 
the 25rd May 1955 under section 6 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published at page 
2191, Part I of Calcutta Gazette of the 2nd June 
1955, in respect of the acquisition of land required 
for the construction of the Ist mile of the 
Panskura-Ghatal Road (portion from the Howrah- 
Khargpur Railwav line at Kanakpur to the 
northern side of the Cuttack Road) in the district 
of Midnapore, tollowing changes will occur :— 


Read 22.19 acres’? for “21.57 acres” in line 
10. 


Thana Panskura, village Kanakpur, 
list No, 82. 


jurisdiction 


Delete ‘1572, 1673, 1554, 1600, 1576, 1737” 
against cadastral plots in part. 
Insert’ Cadastral plots in full—1572, 1219, 


12961 just under “jurisdiction list No. 827, 


Thana Panskura, village Dakshin 
jurisdiction list No. 74. 


Delete “OTH” against cadastral plots in part. 


Mechgram, 


by order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, Dy, Secy. 


[Part 1 
٢ 
Land Reforms 
ORDERS. 
24-Parganas.—No. 13548L.Ref.—Ilst August 


1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Sudhunsu Bhusan Roy and 18 others, 
Bongaon, 24-Parganas, under sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the West Bengal Metates Acquisition 
Act, 19583 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by them under the provisions of sec- 
tion 8 of the suid Act im respect of all interest, 
held by them as intermediaries in the district of 
24-Parganas ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power  con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


24-Parganas.—No. 135501..Ref.—Ilst August 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Ranee Amiyabala Sinha, 59 Barrackpore Trun 
Road, Calcutta-2, under sub-section (1) of section 
9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 
1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery 
by the State Government of all sums recoverable 
by her under the provisions of section 8 of the 
paid Act in respect of all interests held by her as 
an intermediary in the district of 24-Parganas; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad.—No. 185541. Ref.—1Ist August 
1956.—Whereas an application hus been made by 
Shri Baradeswari Prasad Bhattacharyaya, Durga- 
pur, police-station Jiaganj, district Murshidabad, 
under sub-section (1) of sction 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
(fovernment of all sums কিনেন by him 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act 
in respect of all interests held by him as an 
intermediary in the district of Murshidabad; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the (iovernor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


পতি 


NOTIFICATIONS 


24-Parganas.—No. 13140L.Ref.—26th July 
1956.—So much of the order contained in noti- 
fication No. 81501. Ref., dated the 27th April 
1956, as relates to the appointment of Shri Indu 
Bhusan Basu, Special سی‎ [323۱:0۰۸1 Harbour, 
to discharge the functions of a Collector under the 
West Bengal Alienation of Tand (Temporary 
Provisions) Act, 1964, in the Diamond Harbour 
subdivision of the district of 24-Parganas, is 
cancelled. 


Nadia-24-Parganas.—No. 131421. Ref.—26th 
duly 1966.—So much of the order contained in 
notification No. 81481,.Ref., dated the 27th April 
1956, as relates to the transfer of Shri Indu Bhusan 
Basu, Special Officer, from Nadia Sadar to 
Diamond Harbour subdiviston in the distriet of 
24.Parganas, in cancelled, 


By order of the Govertoi: 
P, .لا‎ DATTA, Dy. Secy, 


Parr ২] 


Land Development 


NOTIFICATION 


24-Parganas.— No. 13912L.Dev.—7th August 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel so much 

the notification No. 3104L.Dev., dated the 13th 
ار‎ 1956, under section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land Development and Planning Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1948), published at page 213, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette Extraordinary, 
duted the 13th February 1956, read with erratum 
No. 18910L.Dev., dated the 7th August 1956, aa 
relates to parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 188 
and 105 in the village of Basudevpur, and mea- 
suring, more or less, 0.21 acres in respect of acqui- 
sition of land for the settlement of immigrants 
who have migrated into the State of West Bengal 
on account of circumstances beyond their control 
in the villages of Basudevpur and Agarpara, juris- 
diction list Nos. 2 and 11, respectively, police- 
stations Baranagar and Khardah, district 24- 
Parganas. 


DECLARATION, 


24-Parganas.—No. 139141. Dev.—ith 
1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
nee is needed for a public purpose, viz., for the 
settlement of immigrants who have migrated into 
the State of West Bengal on account of circums- 
tances beyond their control in the villages of 
Basudevpur and Agarpara, jurisdiction list Nos. 2 
and 11, respectively, police-stations Baranagar 
and Khardah, district 24-Parganas, it is hereby 
declared that for the above purpose pieces of lan 
comprising cadastra] survey plot Nos. 107, 109 to 
111, 189, 190, 199 to 201, 203, 208 to 212, 558 and 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 188 and 204 to 
207 of village Basudevpur and cadastral survey 
plot No. 1599 and part of cadastral survey plot 
No. 1598 of village Agarpara and altogether 
measuring, more or less, 8.21 acres are required 
within the aforesaid villages of Basudevpur and 
Agarpara; 


This declaration is made, under the provisions of 
section 6 of the West Bengal Land Development 
and Planning Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI of 
1948), to all whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected ‘in the office 
of the Collector, 24-Parganas. 


ERRATUM 


24-Parganas.—No. 13910L.Dev.—7th August 
1956.—In the notification No. 31041..Dev., dated 
the 13th February 1956, under section 4 of the 
West Bengal land Development and Planning 
Act, 1948 (West Bengal Act XXI of 1948), pub- 
lished at page 213, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 
Extraordinary, dated the 13th February 1956, for 
the settlement of immigrants who have migrated 
into the State of West Bengal on account of cir- 
cumstances beyond their control in the villages of 
Basudevpur and Agarpara,*yurisdiction list Nos. 2 
and 11, বা , police-stations Baranagar 
wnd Khardah, district 24-Parganas— 


۱ ٰ 
Read 18:42 acres’’ for ‘8.65 acres’’ in line 16; 


Read police-stations Baranagar and Khardah 
in place of police-station Baranagar in line 
8; and 


Read ‘1599’? in place of ‘159” in line 14. 


By order of the Governor, 
۲ M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


August 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 | 3121 


শব ০ ছে পপ ৭‏ سس ور 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Agriculture 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 80s0Agri.—26th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased ہا‎ grant Dr. H. C. Choudhum, Special 
Officer (Potatoes), West Bengal, study leave for 
ے‎ period of one year with effect from 14th August 
1956 or any subsequent date it is availed of. 


No. 8095Agri.—26th July 1956.—The Governor 
has been pleased to extend the term of re- 
employment of Shri Bhabesh Chandra Roy, 
retired Publicity Officer, Directorate of Agricul- 
ture, West Bengal, as Storage and ‘I'ransportation 
Officer in the West Bengal Agricultural Service 
with effect from Ist June 1956 until further orders, 
but not beyond 30th November 1956. 


No. 8098Agri.—26th July 1956.—The Governor 
is plensed to confirm Shri Naresh Chandra Deb, 
GV ےتک‎ now acting as Assistant Research Officer, 
Animal Nutrition Scheme, in the post of Coat 
Breeder, Central. Livestock Research-cum-Breed- 
ing Station, Haringhata, in the West Bengal 


- General Service, with effect from 4th June 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


1৮, C. GOPE, Dy. Secy. 


আসি 


Forests 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 7905For.—20th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to confirm Shri Mukul Prasad Ray, 
appointed on probation in West Bengal Senior 
Forest Service in notification No. 2813For., dated 
26th April 1954, in that service with effect from 
the 10th April 1956. ۱ 


No, 8060For.—25th July 1956.—The Governor 
was pleased to allow Shri Khirode Chandra Rai 
Chaudhuri, W.B.J.F.S., Divisional Forest Officer, 
Working Plans Division, to continue to hold 
charge of the Silvicultural Division with — effect 
from Ist November 1955 to 27th November 1955, 
mm addition to his own duties, with headquarters 
ut Darjeeling, vice Shri Arun Chandra Gupta. 


No. 8240For.—28th July 1956.—In continua- 
tion of notification No. 2049, dated 22nd February 
1956, the Governor is pleased to confirm Shri J. C. 
Nath, I.F.S., as Conservator-General of Forests, 
West Bengal, with effect from the lst July 1956. 


No. 8241For.—28th July 1956.—In continuation 
of notification No. 2051, dated 22nd Februar 
1956, the Governor is pleased to confirm Shri A. 0. 
Gupta, I.F.S., as Conservator of Forests, with 
effect from the Ist July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, . 
R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. | 


Botanic Garden 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 82218.G.—27th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to رر‎ temporarily, until further 
orders, Shri Subrata Roy, son of Shri Kalipada, 
Roy, as Assistant Curator, Indian Botanic Garden, 
Sibpore, in the West Bengal Gardener’s Service, 
with effect from the date of his assuming charge. 


By order of the Governor, 
R. GANGULI, Dy. Seoy. 


3122 


nr সিলিলিিিজলসললটলল্্্শ্্ল্লললললটটলু্্শ্্্ক্স্শ্চাহহলশ্্টইউটি 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


OFFICE OF THE CONSERVATOR OF FORESTS, NORTHERN CIRCLE, 
WEST BENCAL. 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 7198C.F.N.—30th July 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred 
by sub-rule (a) of rule 14 of the Rules to regulate hunting, shooting, fishing, 
the pojsoning of water and the setting of traps and snares within the 
reserved and protected forests in Bengal, except those in the Chittagong Hill 
Tracts, made by the Government of Bengal in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 26, and clause (i) of section 
32 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), and published with the 
Government of Bengal, Forests and Excise Department, notification 
No. 10694For., dated the 18th November 1940, at pages 3216 to 3230 of Part 
I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 28th November 1940, as subsequently 
amended, I, the Conservator of Forests, Northern Circle, West Bengal, do 
hereby direct, with the previous sanction of the State Government, that the 
reserved forest blocks described in the Schedule below, shall be closed to 
hunting, shooting and fishing for a period of five years from the date of 
publication of this notification in the Calcutta Gazette. 


The Schedule. 
Forest Div ision. Range. Block and Compartment, 
Jalpaiguri Apalchand +» Malhati and Chengmari. 
Moraghat Gossaihat. 
Buxa Bakss-duar ee Phaskhawa. 
Rydak -- Hatipota, Bhutanghat and North Rydak. 
Bholka es Sankos, Kumargram and Newlands. 
Cooch Behar *৩ Madarihat oo Titi. 
Chilapata «+ Portions of Baradabri 6 and 7, Mondabari 6, 
Chilapata 3, 4, and Benia 1 and 8, lying to 
the east of the Jaldapara Game Sanctuary ۱ 
Nilpara ee Portions of Joygaon Dalsingpara and Hasi- 
mara excluding areas east of the Toorsa 
River. ۱ 
Kalim pong -. Chel ۱ Mongpong. 
Neora ~» Mal. 
Kurseong ۰ .. Bevoke Silibhita, Hast Sevoke, Wost Sevoke, North 


Sevoke, Samardanga, Jhanaikuri. 


No. 7199C.F.N.—30th July 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by 
sub-rule (b) of rule 14 of the Rules to regulate hunting, shooting, fishing, 
ths poisoning of water and the setting of traps and snares within the reserved 
und protected forests in Bengal, except those in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, 
made by the Government of Bengal in exercise of the powers conferred on it 
by clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 26, and clause (i) of section 32 of 
the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), and published with the Govern- 
ment of Bengal, Forests and Excise Department, notification No. 10694For., 
dated the 18th November 1940, at pages 9216 to 3230 of Part I of the Cal- 
cdtta Gazette, dated the 28th November 1940, as subsequently amended, I, 
the Conservator of Forests, Northern Circle, West Tenge: do hereby specify, 
with the previous sanction of the State Government, Sambhur as the animal, 
the hunting, shooting and capture of which in the reserved forest blocks 
described in the Schedule below is prohibited for a period of ten years from 
the date of publication of this notification in the Calcutta Gazette, 


The Schedule 
Forest Division. Particulars of the area. 
Jalpaiguri 7 eo -- Entire Division. 
©ooch Behar - ve »» The whole of Madarihat Range and those parts 


of Nilpara and Chilapata Ranges lying to the 
west of the Toorsa River. 2 


K. L. LAHIRI, . 
Conservator of Forests. 


{Part I 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3123 


SS pet 


DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATION 
Co-operation 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 2662Co-op, /8A-16/56.—31st July 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Keshab 
Jal Ganguly, now acting as District Auditor of 
Qo-operative Societies, Birbhum district, to "ا‎ 
District Auditor of Co-operative Societies, on 
probation, with effect from the date of this notifica- 
tion, vice Shri  Manindra Nath  Moitra, 
substantively appointed as Assistant Registrar of 
' Co-operative Societies. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. A. GANI, Dy. Secy. 
শিক্ষা বিভাগ। 
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 
Burdwan,—No. 8053Edn./9B-5/55.—8lst July 


1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by 
section 9 of the Bengal (Rural) lrimary Educa- 
tion Act, 1980 (Bengal Act VII of 1980), the 
(jovernor is pleased hereby to publish the name 
of Shri Mrityunjoy Pramanick. a member of the 
Ihstrict School Board of Burdwan, who has been 
elected by the said Board as its Vice-President. 


IAL ৮১৩০শিক্ষা ।২এল-২৪1৫৬।--৯লা আগম্ট ১৯৫৬।--‏ ۱۴ یک 
ert মহসাঁন কলেজের পাশ্চিমবঙ্গা ক্ষণ কৃত্যকের পোরুষ বিভাগ)‏ 
1م وی পদার্থ বিদ্যার সহ-অধ্যাপক ডক্টর পরেশ কিশোর সেন চৌধুরশী,‏ 
ডি, ফিল কোঁলঃ),কে ছাট লওয়ার তাঁরখ হইতে এক বংসরের জন্য‏ 
অধ্যয়নাবকাশ মঞ্জুর WaT হইল।‏ 

রাজ্যপালের আদেশানহসারে, 
ডি, এম, সেন, 


সাঁচব। 


Hooghly. — No. 8130Kdn. /2L-24/56. — Ist 
August 1956.—Dr. Paresh Kishore Sen Chow- 
dhury, M.Se., D.Fhil.(Cal.), Assistant Professor 
of Physics, Hooghly Mohsin College, in the 
West Bengal Educational Service (Men’s Branch), 
is granted study leave for a period of one year 
with effect from the date on which he avails 
himself of it. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. M. SEN, Secy. 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF DIVISIONS 


Burdwan Division—Chimsura 


It is notified for general information that the following appointment to Union Bench and Court is hereby made :— 


Board to which appointed or 
elected with police-station, 
eubdivision and district. 


No. and date of notification 
assigned by issuing authority. 


Name Section of law and culars Name of authority 
of Government order by which aod designation. 
power 15 delegated to issuing 
authority. 


Appointment toe Union Bench and Court 


915L.8-G., dated 80th July Benapur, Bagnan, Uluberia, 
1966. Howrah. 


No. 1553M.—27th July 1956.—It is hereby 
notified for general information that in accordance 
with the instructions contained in Government 
memo. No. 1541(5)-Medl., dated 27th April 1948, 
the Advisory Committee of the State-managed 
hospital at Midnapore Sadar, in the district of 
Midnapore, is reconstituted with the followimg 
Members :— 


(1) District Magistrate, Midnapore—President. 
(2) Civil Surgeon, Midnapore—Secretary. 

(3) Assistant Surgeon, Midnapore—Member. 
(4) Subdivisional Officer, Sadar North— 


Member. 


(6) President, Indian Medical Association, 
Midnapore Branch—Member. 


Shri Jatindra Haszra vice Shri Sections 65 and 78 of the Bengal 
Sibaram Mondal, deceased. Vi Self-Go 


B. Sarkar, Commis. 
ment Act, sioner, Burdwan 


vern 
1919 (Bengal Act V of 1919). Division. 


(9) Executive Engineer, Works and Buildings, 


Midnapore—Member. 

(7) 78 of Police, Midnapore— 
ember. 

(8) Shri Gajendra Nath Hazra, Chairman, 
Municipality—Member. 

(9) Shri Mahendra Nath Mahata, Chairman, 


District Board, Midnapore—Member. 
(10) Shri P. Maity—Member. 


(11) Shri Satyaranjan Dutta, Municipal Com- 
missioner—Member. 


(12) Sm. Parul Kar—Member. 


SARKAR, Commissioner.‏ .ظط 


3124 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


Presidency Division—Jaipaiguri 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, 
DARJEELING 


No, 58738G.—25th July 1956.—In exercise of the 
powers under paragraph 16 of the West Bengal 
Soft Coke Distribution Order, 1955, as delegated 
to me by the Director of Consumer Goods, West 
Bengal, by his order No. XII-A(82)/55FU, dated 
6th July 1956, 1 hereby fix the maximum selling 
prices per maund of soft coke, both wholesale and 
retail for different subdivisions in the distriet of 
Darjeeling as noted in the table below: — 


Table 
Wholesale Retail 
Subdivision. price price 
per maund. per maund. 


Rs. ہم‎ p. Re. a p. 


Darjeeling 3 18 0 8 15 0 Exclusive of 8. T. 
Kurseong 3 6 0 3 7 0 Ditto 

Kalim pong 3 12 0 3 14 0 Ditto 
Siliguri 2 4 9 2 6 9 Inclusive of §. T. 


This order shall have immediate effect. 


J. C. TALUKDAR, Deputy Commissioner. 


(Parr 1 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


3128 


লিলি লজ্জা সিিিি উস orto جچھسححججےووبو-حےےسسجےىسح<ح-<صح<ح<ح<صحسحےطسح۔۔گگگئى.ى‫|.‎ 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


PUBLIC NOTICES UNDER SUB-SECTION (5) 
OF SECTION 17 OF THE WEST BENCAL 


EVACUEE PROPERTY ACT, 1951. 
NOTICES. 


(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
(10) 
(11) 
(1) 
(18) 
(14) 
(15) 
(16) 
(17) 
(18) 
(19) 
(20) 
(21) 
(4) 
(23) 
(34) 
(2) 
(26) 
(27) 
(28) 
(29) 
(30) 
(31) 
(3২) 
(33) 
(34) 
(9১) 
(36) 
(37) 
(38) 
(39) 
(40) 
(41) 
(42) 
(43) 
(44) 
(40) 
(46) 
(47) 
(48) 
(49) 
(90) 
(1) 
(33) 
(3) 
(54) 
(55) 
(56) 
(57) 
(58) 


No, 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No, 
No. 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
, 32566E.P.A., 
. 382068E.P.A., 
. d2570E.P.A., 
. d2072E.P A., 
. d2074K.P.A.,, 
. d2076E.P.A., 
. 8291815.1),4) 
. d2080EK.P.A., 
۔‎ d2804K.P.A., 
. d2806E.P.A., 
. 82808E.P.A., 
. d2810E.P.A., 
. d281I2ZE.P.A., 
. S2814E.P.A., 
. d2810E.P.A., 
, d2818E.P.A., 
. d2820E.P.A., 
. d2822E.P.A., 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No, 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 


No. 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No, 


325248.P.A., 
32526K.P.A., 
32528E.P.A., 
32530K.P.A., 
32582E.1.A., 
82534E.D.A., 
32536K.P.A., 
82538E.1.A., 
32540K.P.A., 
32542K.P.A., 
32544E.P.A., 
82540E.P.A., 
$2548E.P.A., 
82550E.P.A., 
$2552E.P.A., 
$2554E.P.A., 
32556E.P.A., 
32558E.P.A., 
32560E.P.A., 
32562E.P.A., 
32504E.P.A., 


32824F.P.A., 
3282013.1১.4.. 
52828E.P.A., 
32830E.P.A., 
82832E.P.A., 
32834E.P.A., 
S283bE.P.A., 
S2838E.P.A., 
9284079.1১. 4. 
$2842E.D.A., 
32844E.P.A., 
32846K.P.A., 
$2848E.P.A., 
$2850K.P.A., 
228502111১4. 
8285411... 
2876013.1১.45. 
S28h8K.P.A., 
32860K.P.A., 


dated 
dated 
dated 

dated 

dated 

dated 

dated 

dated 

dated 

dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 

dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
duted 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


2()th 
20th 
20th 


J uly 
July 
J ul 1 


20th July 


20th 
20th 


July 
July 


20th July 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20011) 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 


1956. 
1995. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1950. 
1955, 
195d. 
1930. 
1950. 
1929, 
1955. 
195d. 
1956. 
1950. 
195d. 
1955. 
1999. 
1955. 
1995. 
1959. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1950. 
1955. 
1995, 
1955. 
1995. 
195d. 
1900. 
1996. 
1955, 
1999. 
199, 
1955. 
19৩9. 
1955. 
195১, 
199, 
1905. 
1955. 
1955. 
1905. 
1950. 
1955. 
1905. 
1955. 
1955, 
1070), 
1999, 
1059, 
1090, 
1950, 
1909. 
1955. 
10956. 


(97) 


(98) No. 


(99) 
(100) 
(101) 
(102) 
(103) 
(104) 
(105) 
(1606) 
(101) 
(108) 
(109) 
(110) 
(111) 
(112) 
(118) 
(114) 
(115) 
(116) 
(117) 
(118) 
(119) 
(120) 
(121) 
(122) 


. 82864E.P.A., 
. ٦986070. رھ‎ 
১82868157১8.) 
. 82870K.P.A., 
. 82872E.P.A., 
, d2874EK.P.A., 
. d2876E.B.A., 
, B2878E.P.A., 
. 82880E.P.A., 
. 32882K.P.A., 
. d2884E.P.A., 
. d2886E.P.A., 
. 32888E.P.A., 
. d2890E.P.A., 
. d2892E.P.A., 
. d2894E.P.A., 
32896E.P.A., 
. 82898E.P.A., 
_ 8290UE.P.A., 
. d2902E.P.A., 
. 382904E.P.A., 
_ 82906E.P.A., 
. 3d2908E.P.A., 
. d2910E.P.A., 
. d2912EK.P.A., 
82914E.P.A., 
. d2966E.P.A., 
. 3d2968E.P.A., 
. d2970E.P.A., 
. d2972E.P.A., 
. d2974E.P.A., 
. dQ976E.P.A., 
. 4207810. رہش‎ 
. رہف ال (2080ل‎ 
. d2982EK.P.A., 
. 32984E.P.A., 
. d2986E.P.A., 
. 82988E.P.A., 
$2900K.P.A., 
382992H.P.A., 
32994E.P.A., 
32996E.P.A., 
32998EK.P.A., 
33000E.P.A., 
Bd002E.P.A., 
33004 E.P.A., 
S33006E.P.A., 
3390087,.1১.4..) 
3২3010079, 1১4.) 
93(00121-1১.4. 
3301415,1১,4., 
S3016E.P.A., 
838018E.P.A., 
33020K.P.A., 
d3238H.P.A., 
3838240K.P.A., 
33242E.P.A., 
33244E.P.A., 
B3246E.)P.A., 
3334874.1১, 8.) 
No. 1:30015,7),.4,, 
No. $8252K.P.A., 
No. 388204K.).A., 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
duted 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


. d2862E.P.A., dated 20th . 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


20th . 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


20th ۴ 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


20th . 
20th . 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


1999. 


dated 20th July 1956. 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


dated 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


dated 20th 


July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 


195d. 
1956. 
1955. 
1955. 
1950. 
1999, 
1999. 
1956. 
1909, 
1955. 
1990, 
1955. 
1950. 
19950. 
1955. 
1955. 
1959, 
1950. 
1955. 
1998, 
19১5. 
1959. 
1956. 


July 1956, 


No. 
No. 
No. 
No. 


No. 
(185) No. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


, 83256E.P.A., 
. 33258E.P.A., 
, 33260E.P.A., 
, 39262E.P.A., 
, 33264E.P.A., 
, 88266E.P.A., 
, 38268E.P.A., 
, 88270E.P.A., 
, 83272E.P.A., 
, 83274E.P.A., 
| 8827GE.P.A., 
, 83278E.P.A., 
 83280E.P.A., 
, 38282E.P.A., 
, B4161E.P.A., 
| 84168E.P.A., 
| 84165E.P.A., 
. 84167E.P.A., 
, 84169E.P.A., 
| 84171 E.P.A., 
۔‎ BAITBELP.A., 
| B4175E.P.A., 
, B4177E.P.A., 
, 83769E.P.A., 
| 88771 E.P.A., 
, 88773E.P.A., 
, 83775E.P.A., 
, 88777E.P.A., 
, 88779E.P.A., 
. 83781E.P.A., 
_ 83783E.P.A., 
, 88785E.P.A., 
. B3787E.P.A., 
. 83789K.P.A., 
| 88791 E.P.A., 
۔‎ 33798E.P.A., 
. 88795E.P.A., 
, B8797E.P.A., 
| 83799E.P.A., 
, 83801E.P.A., 
, 33803E.P.A., 
, 33805K.P.A., 
, 83807E.P.A., 
, 33809E.P.A., 
, B3811E.P.A., 
_ 38829E.P.A., 
, 38831E.P.A., 
, 88833E.P.A., 
, 88835E.P.A., 
, 83837E.P.A., 
, 83839E.P.A., 
۔‎ 83841E.P.A., 
, 83843E.P.A., 


33845E.P.A., 
33847E.P.A., 
33849E.P.A., 
33931E.P.A., 
33933E.P.A., 
33935E.P.A., 
83937K.P.A., 
33939E.P.A., 
33041 K.P.A., 
B8040E.P.A., 


dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 
dated 


dated 


20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20৮0 July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 


20th July 1 


20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 


20th July | 


20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 
20th July 


20th July 


(192) 
(199) 
(194) 
(195) 
(196) 
(197) 
(198) 
(199) 
(200) 
(201) 
(202) 
(203) 
(204) 
(205) 
(206) 
(207) 
(208) 
(209) 
(210) 
(211) 
(212) 
(213) 
(214) 
(215) 
(216) 
(217) 
(218) 
(219) 
(220) 
(221) 
(222) 
(223) 
(224) 
(225) 
(226) 
(227) 
(228) 
(229) 
(230) 
(231) 
(232) 
(238) 
(234) 
(235) 
(236) 
(237) 
(238) 
(239) 
(240) 
(241) 
(242) 
(243) 
(244) 
(245) 
(246) 
(247) 
(248) 


. 88945E.P.A., dated 

. d83947E.P.A., dated 

. 3dd949E.P.A., dated 

. 99050110. شھ.‎ ١ dated 

,98999919.1১.4.১ dated 

. 3389590E.P.A., dated 

. 338957K.P.A., dated 

. d3959E.P.A., dated 

. d8961E.P.A., dated 

. 3d8963E.P.A., dated 
. 33965K.P.A., dated 

. d3967H.P.A., dated 

. d38909E.P.A., dated 

. d8971K.P.A., dated 
. d8973K.P.A., dated 
. d38975E.P.A., dated 
. d307TE.P.A., dated 
. dd979E.P.A., dated 
. d3981E.P.A., dated 
. 88983E.P.A., dated 
. 83980K.P.A., dated 
. d3987K.P.A., dated 
. dd989E.P.A., dated 20th 
. 338991E.P.A., dated 20th 
. 338993E.P.A., dated 20th July 
. 3399DE.P.A., dated 
. dd997E.P.A., dated 
. 383999EK.P.A., dated 
. d4001E.P.A., dated 
. 384008E.P.A., dated 
. 34005E.P.A., dated 
. d4007E.P.A., dated 
. 34009E.P.A., dated 
. d4011E.P.A., dated 
. d4013E.P.A., dated 
. d4015E.P.A., dated 
. d4017E.P.A., dated 
. 84231E.P.A., dated 
. 34233E.P.A., dated 
. 84230K.P.A., dated 
. d42387E.P.A., dated 
. 384239E.P.A., dated 
. d4241K.P.A., dated 
. 34243E.P.A., dated 
۔‎ 84245H.P.A., dated 
. 34247K.P.A., dated 
. 384249E.P.A., dated 
. d4087E.P.A., dated 
. 384089E.P.A., dated 
. 34091 E.P.A., dated 
. 34093H.P.A., dated 
. 84095E.P.A., dated 
. d4097E.P.A., dated 
. 84099E.P.A., dated 
. S4101E.P.A., dated 
. d4108E.P.A., dated 
..ھ. .34410510 ۔‎ dated 
. d4107K.P.A., dated 

. d4109E.P.A., dated 

JALILE.P.A., dated‏ ۔ 
d4)18E.P.A., dated‏ . 


3d4)15E.P.A., dated‏ ۔ 
SALITE.P.A., dated‏ . 


20th 
20th 


20th 

20th 

20th 

20th 

20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 
20th 


20th 


20th ٠ 


July 
July 
July 


July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 


July 1٤ 


July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 
July 


July 


1955. 
1999, 
1900, 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
195), 
1959. 
1955. 
1990. 
1990. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 


1955. 


Part 7] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTEH, AUGUST 16, 1956 3127 


১ ১১৯ সি 


(249) No. 84119E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
(250) No. 34121E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955, 
(251) No. 34123E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
(202) No. 34125E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
(258) No. 84127E.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 
(254) No. 34129K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


Notice is 


hereby given that the evacuee 
property /properties described in the schedule 
below has/have vested in the Evacuee Property 


Management Committee for West Bengal un ler 
sub-section (4) of section 17 of the West Bengal 
Evacuee Property Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act 
V of 1951) سب‎ 


The Schedule. 


(1) No. 32524E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
Naldah, J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 563, Plot No. 
938, Area .25, Owner—Shri Md. Abul Hossen 
Mandal. 


(2) No. 32526E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 


Mauza Mathurapur, J. .ا‎ No. 72, Khatian No. 
31, Plot No. 376, Area .59, Owner—Shri Rajabali 
Mandal. 


‘ 


(83) No. 32528E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 0. 
120, Plot No. 311, Area .33, Owner—Shri Rajabali 
Mandal. ۱ 


(4) No. 32530E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 
119, Plot No. 562, Area .09, Owner—Shri Rajabali 
Mandal. 


(5) No. 82582K.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 
119, Plot No. 967, Area .29, Owner—Shri Rajabali 
Mandal. 


(6) No. 32534E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 

District  Naclix, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mousa Dignayar, J. L. No. 83, Khatian No. 
56, Plot No. 269, Area .16, Owner—Shri Imanalh 
Mandal. 


(7) No. 825386E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwult, 
Mauza Dignagar, J. .ا‎ No. 83, Khatian No. 
68, Plot No, 189, Area .49, Owner—Shri Imanali 
Mandal. 


(8) No. 32538E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District ۶ۃ‎ Police-station Kotwuit, 
Mauza JDignayar, J. L. No. 83, Khatian No. 
804, Plot No. 185, Area .29, Owner—Shri Imanali 
Mandal. | 


(9) No. 32540K.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 


District 7070 Police-station Kotwah, 

auza Dignagar, J. L. No. 883, Khatian No. 
402, Plot No. 447, Area .87, Owner—Shri Abdul 
Rezzak Mandal. 


(10) No. 32542E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station  —_ Kotwal, 

800৮ Dignagar, J. L. No. 83, Khatian No. 
56, Plot No. 1075, Area .87, Owner—Shri Abdul 
Rezzak Mandal. 


(11) No. 32644E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza Dignagar, J. L. No. 83, Khatian No. 


00, Plot No. 391, Area .13, Owner—Shri 
Rezzak Mandal. 


Abdul 


(12) No, 32546E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwahi, 
Mauza Dignagar, J. L. No. 83, Khatian No. 
96, Plot No. 271, Area .47, Owner—Shri Abdul 
Rezzak Mandal, 


(19) No. 32548E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza Senpur, J. L. No. 119, Khatian No. 283, 
Plot No. 248, Area 1.48, Owner—Shri Atul 
Mondal. 


(14) No. 32650E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, 
Mauza Naldah, J. .ا‎ No. 99, Khatian No. 
569, Plot No. 2667, Area .51, Owner—Shri Abul 
Hossen Mondal. 


(15) No. 32552E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotw..li, 
Mauza Naldah, J. Tu. No. 99, Khatian No. 
603, Plot No. 738, Area .48, Owner—Shri Abul 
Hossen Mondal. 


(16) No. 32654E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 255, Area .90, Owner—Shri 
Majam Mondal. 


(17) No. 82556E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 380, Area .35, Owner—Shri 
Majam ۰ 


(le) No. 32558K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nada, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza © Mathurapur, J. .ہا‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 214, Area .20 Owner—Shri 
Majam Mondal. 


(19) No. 32560E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 


No. 93, Plot No. 568, Area .40, 
Majam Mondal. 


Owner—Shri 


(20) No. 32562E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. ہا‎ No. 72, thatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 209, Area .17, Owner—Sari 
Md. Mojam Mondal. 


(21) No. 32564E.P.A., dated 20th July 1995. 


District 1৮07৬) Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. LL. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 29, Plot No. 616, Area .53, Owner—Shri 


Mojam Mondal. 


(22) No. 82566E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chaprs, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. .ما‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. 99, Plot No. 205, Area .54, Owner—Shri 
Md, Mojam Mondal. 


3128 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr ] 


উস সলিল لت کٗآ‪‪.پپچچہے۔‎ ESSN داد ا اد‎ Peo سس‎ eae SRE ESE ITU a 


(23) No. 32568E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. متا‎ No. 72, Khatian 


No. 44, Plot No. 621, Area 1.138, Owner-—-Shri 


Mojam Mondal. 


(24) No. 382570E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 
District Nadia, Police-station Chancza, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 


No. 93, Plot No. 707, Area 
Mojam Mondal. 


74, Owner—bri 


(25) No, 82572E.P.A., dated 20th July 19565. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chanra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. ہا‎ No. 72, WKhatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 686, Area 2.23, Owner—Shri 
Mojam Mondal. 


(26) No. 82574E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. - 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 861, Area .49 Owner—Shri 
Mojam Mondgl. 


(27) No. 32576E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 830, Area .22, Owner—Shn 
Mojam Mondal. 


(28) No. 32578E.P.A., dated 20th July 1925. 


District Nadia, Police-station | Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 251, Plot No. 459, Area .28, Owner—Shri 


Md. Akkas Mondal. 


(29) No. 82580E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza Shenpur, J. 'L. No. 119, Khatian No. 2:39, 
Plot No. 2705, Area .82, Owner—Shri Didar 
Hossain Molla. 


(30) No. 32804E.P.A., dated 20th-July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, Mauza 
Bahirgachi, J. L. No. 73, Khatian No, 354, Plot 
No. 398, Area 1.07, Owner—Shri Md. Habejaddi 
Biswas. 


(31) No. 32806E.P.A., 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatinn 
No. 385, Plot No. 1009, Area .60, Owners—Shri 
Rahim Mondal and others. 


dated 20th July 1929, 


(32) No. 32808E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia,  Police-station Krishnagan), 
Mauza Banpur, J. 1. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 34, Plot No. 252, Area 1.55, Owner—Shnri 
Molam 3160۰ 


(99) No. 32810E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Manza Banpur, J. 1. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 914, Plot No. 1004, Area .99, Owner—hri 
Mahiruddin Mondal. 


(34) No. 32812E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. 1. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 26, Plot No, 889, Area .87, Owner—Shri Md. 
Darud Halsana. 


(90) No. 32814E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Pollessstation Krishraganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 26, Plot No. 895, Area .83, Owner—Shri Mid. 
Darud Halsana. 


(86) No. 82816E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, নাতে Krishnag.nj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. ہا‎ No. 46,  Khatian 
No. 586, Plot No. 1262, Area .33, Owner—Shri 
Rustamali Mondal. 


(37) No. 32818E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. .ےا1‎ No. 46, Khatian 
No. 672, Plot No. 473, Area 1.50, Owners—Shri 
Fakir Mohammad Mondal and others. 


(38) No. 32820E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Volice-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauzn Banpur, J. .نا1‎ No. 46, Khatian 
No. 3, Plot No. 1295, Area .41, Owner—Shri 
Chaberali Mondal. 


(39) No. 32822E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Polina station Krishnagaaj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 3, Plot No. 1274, Area .54, Owner—Shri 
Chaberali Mondal. 


(40) No. 32824K.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza SBanpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 366, Plot No. 1268, Area .35, Owner-—Shri 
Chaberali Mondal, 


(41) No. 32826E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. ما‎ No. 46, Khatian 
No. 889, Plot No. 236, Area 1.66, Owner—Shni 
Chaberali Mondal. 


(42) No. 32828E-P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, . 
Mauza Banpur, J. L.+No. 46,  Khatian 
No. 383, Plot No. 1293, Area .638, Owners—Shri 
Rustamali Mondal and others. 


(43) No, 32830E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza SBanpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 859, Plot No. 631, Area 1.30, Owner—Shri 
Paru Mondal, 


(44) No. 32882E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, বিলিন Krishnaganyj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 199, Plot No. 821, Area .46, Owner—Shri 
Mohammad Mondal. 


(45) No. 32834E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 


District Nadia, Police-station [0৮1১1], 
Mauza Naldaha, J. L. No. 99, Khatian No. 569, 
Plot No. 2606, Area .37, Owner—Shri Md. Abul 
Hossain Mondal. 


(46) No. 828386E.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian No. 49, 
Plot No. 30, Area ১21) Owner—Shri Fazitul 
Hossain Biswas. 


(47) No, 32838E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia, Policestation Hanskhali, 
Mauza Binali, J. LU. No. 15, Khatian No. 
199, Plot No. 226, Area .12, Owner—Shri Aburali 
Dafadars, 

(48) No. 32840E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 

District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhah, 
Mauza ۰(۳ ip [।. No. 15, Khatian No. 


200, Plot No. 224, Area .05, Owner—Shri 9 
Dafadar. 


Part ][ 


(49) No, 82842K.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Binali, J. .ہا‎ No. 15, Khatian No. 
299, Plot No. 228, Area .11, Owner—Shri Aburali 
Dafadar. 


(50) No. 32844E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

(18٤11 Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 20, Plot No. 228, Area .18, Owner—Shri Enat 
Mandal. 


(51) No. 32846E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999, 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mouza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 20, Plot No. 888, Arena .24, Owner—Shri 
Enat Mandal. 


(52) No. 32848E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


Thstrict Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. نا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 62, Plot No. 372, Area .15, Owner—Shri 


Enat Mandal. 


(59) No. 32850E.P.A., dated 20th July 1929, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. LL. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 62, Plot No. 680, Area .36, Owner—Shri 
Enat Mandal. 


(54) No. 82852E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


[07100 Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mouza Satghuta, J. .ا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 9, Plot No. 1385, Area .88, Owner—Shri 
Abujulla Mandal. 


(55) No. 82854E.P.A., dated 20th July 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. ہا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 867, Plot No. 44, Area .31, Owner—Shri 


Fajital Hossain Biswas. 


(56) No. 32856E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
ee Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 156, Plot No. 824, Area .52, Owner—Shri 
Fajital Hossain Biswas. 


(57) No. 82858E.P A., dated 20th July 1999. 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
سے‎ jan বর J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 85, Plot No. 95, Area .30, Owner—Shri 


Fajital "Hossain Biswas. 


(58) No. 32860E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 28, Plot No. 1165, Area .17, Owner—Shri 


Fazit ل8‎ Hossain جو‎ 


(59) No. 32862E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 46, Plot. No. 1178, Area .23, Owner—Shri 


Fazital Hossain Biswas. 


(60) No, 82864H.P.A., dated 20th July 1909. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
ane a J. IL. No. 60, Khatian No, 107, 
Plot No. 1166, Area .80, Owner—Shri Fazital 
Hossain Biswas. 


(61) No. 32866E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia,  Police-station  Hanskhah, 
Mauza  Benali, Jd. ملا‎ No. ; 18, Khatian 
No, 331, Plot No. 734, Atea  .15,  Owner--Shri 
Fakir Chand টিন 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3129 


a 


(62) No, 32868H.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-stution Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. L. No. 15, Khatian 


No. 331, Plot No. 1218, Area .36, Owner—Shri 
Fakir Chand Mondal. 


(63) No. 382870E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauzu Benali, J. 1. No. 15 »  Khatian 
No. 8331, Plot No. 393, Area .07, Owner—Shri 


Fakir Chand Mondal. 


(64) No. 32872E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hauskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. L. No. 15, Khatian 
No. 364, Plot N 0. 2070, Area .382, Owner—Shri 


Fakir Chand Mondal. 


(65) No. 32874E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
auza Benali, J. LL. No. atian 


No. 359, Plot No. 246, Area .19, Owner—Shri 
Tafazal Taratdar. 


(66) No. 32876E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, ডাগর Hanskhali, 
Mauza_ Benali, J. LL. No. 15, Khatian 


No. 269, Plot No. 633, Area .18, Owner—Shri 
Abdul Motleb Mondal. 


(67) No. 382878E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Licentiate Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. L. No. 15, atian 
No. 359, Plot No. 244, Area .938, Owner—Shri 


Tafazal Tarafder. 


(68) No. 32880E.P.A., 


District Nadia, Hanskhali, 
81002 Benali, Khatian 


No. 269, Plot No. 952, Area ১40, Owner—Shri 
Abdul Matleb Mondal. 


dated 20th July 1955. 
Police-station 


(69) No. 32882E P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. 1. No. 15, Khatian 
No. 269, Plot No. 992, Area .46, Owner—Shri 
Abdul Matleb Mondal. 


(70) No. $2884E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Muuza_  Benali, J. .ا‎ No. 16, Khatian 
No. 239, Plot No. 1072, Area .45, Owner—Shri 
Abdul Matleb Mondal. 


(71) No. 82886E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station | Hanskhali, 
Mausa_ 1397011) ٦ L. No. 15,  Khatian 
No. 160, Plot No. 1019, Area .14, Owner—Shri 
Kacha Haque Mondal. 


(72) No. 32888E.P A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
11802 Benali, J. ہا‎ No. 18, Khatian 
No. 160, Plot No. 1739, Area .06, Owner—Shri 


Kacha Haque Mondal. 


(73) No. 382890E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza 1390811) J. L. No. 15,  Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 1010, Area ১80, Owner—Shri 
Mobarak Mondal. 


(74) No. 82892E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


istrict Nadia, — Police-station _ Hanskhali, 
Mawza Benah, J. ما‎ No. 45, Khatan 
No. 199, Plot No, 892, Area .87, Owner—Shri 


Aburali Dafader. 


3130 ‘THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr 1 


৯৯১ 


(75) No. 32894E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 258, Area .07, Owner—Shri 
Saheruddin Molla. 


(76) No, 32896E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 318, Plot No. 652, Area .18, Owner—Shri 
Md. Kangli Molla. 


(77) No. 32898E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauzo Ramnagar, J. LL. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 2/5, Plot No. 373, Area .80, Owner—Shri 


Md. Oajnabi Mondal. 
(78) No. 32900E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Yhapra, 
Mauza Rumnagar, J. ہا‎ No. 75, Khatian 
No. 831, Plot No. 1889, Area .19, Owner—Shri 
Md. Alep Mondal. 


(79) No. 82902K.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 70, Area .87, Owner—Shri Md. 
Alep Mondal. 


(80) No. 32904E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. L. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 426, Plot No. 670, Area .19, Owner—Shri 


Md. Afteruddin Mondal. 
(81) No. 32906E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Bahirgachi, .ا1 .1ا‎ No. 73, Khatian 


No. 333, Plot No. 1095, Area 
Md. Habejaddi Biswas. 


20, Owner—Sshri 


(82) No. 32908E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Bahirgachi, J. L. No. 73, Khatian 
No. 354, Plot No. 1910, Area .22, Owner—Shri 
Md. Habejaddi Biswas. 


(83) No. 32910E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Bahirgachi, J.~L. No. 73, Khatian 
No. 353, Plot No. 1902, Area .40, Owner-—Shri 


Md. Habejaddi Biswas. 


(84) No. 32912E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza kRamnagar, J. .نا1‎ No. 75, Khatian 
No. 92, Plot No. 3856, Area .12, Owner—Shri Jan 
Mohammad Mondal. 


(85) No. 32914E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. Ju. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 4/2, Plot No. 1757, Area .60, Owner—Shri 
Jan Mahammad Mondal. 


(86) No. 32966E.P.A., dated 20th July 195. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. Ju. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 92, Plot No. 593, Area .34, Owner—Shri Jan 
Mahammad Mondal. 


(87) No. 32968E.P.A., dated 20th July 1905. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. lL. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 92, Plot No. 1764, Area .21, Owner—Shri Jan 
Mahammad Mondal. 


(88) No. 382970E.P.A., dated 20th July 1990, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. I. No. 7%, Khatian 
No. 92, Plot No. 925, Aréa .12, Owner—Shri Jan 
Mahammad Mondal. 


(89) No, 32972K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ramnagar, J. .ت1‎ No. 75, hatian 
No. 69, Plot No. 438, Area .13, Owner—Shri Md. 
Saritulla Mondal. 


(90) No. 82974E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwoh, 
Mauza Bhanderkola, J. L. No. 41, Khatian No. 
291, Plot No. 1847, Area .59, Owner—Shri Md. 
Tinkari Malita. 


(91) No. 3297GE.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District . Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 49, Plot No. 278, Area .28, Owner—Shri 


Wajital Hossen Biswas. 


(92) No. 82978E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. LL. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 738, Plot No. 889, Arex .88, Owner—Shri 
Kayemali Mondal. 


(99) No, 32980E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955 


District Nadia, Police-station 00٥۱ 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatien 
No. 25, Plot No. 74, Area .60, Owner—Shri 


Kayemali Mondal. 
(94) No. 382982E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauzn Satghata, J. 1. No. 60,  Nhatian 
No. 121, Plot No. 540, Area .17, Owner-——Shri 
Kayemali Mondal. 


(95) No. 382984KE.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. .ہا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 121, Plot No. 1082, Area .08, Owner—Shri 
Fajital Hossen Biswas. 


(96) No. 32986K.P.A., dated 20th July 1999, 

District Nadia, Police-station ہہ رط‎ 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 46, Plot No. 431, Area .18, Owner—Shri 
Fajital Hossen Biswas. 


(97) No, 32988E.P.A., dated 20th July 1920. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapia, 
Mauza Satghata, J. J. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 73, Plot No. 679, Area .72, Owner-—Shri 


Fajital Hossen Biswas. 


(98) No. 382990E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. LL. No. 60, Khation 
No. 48, Plot No. 15, Area .31, Owner—Shri Fajital 
Hossen Biswas. 


(99) No. 82992K.P\A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigiputa, J. L. No. 86, Khatian 


No. 43, Plot No, 280, Area .92, Owner-—Shri 


Sabedali Mondal. 


(100) No. 32994E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigiputa, J. L. No. 86,  Khatian 
No. 43, Plot No. 3d, Area .29,  Owner—Shri 
Sabedali Mondal. 


Part 1٢1 


(101) No. 382996E.)P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
ا‎ Mathurapur, J. ما‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. Plot No. 2938, Arena .384, Owner—Shri 
eae ‘Mondal. 


(102) No, 82998K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauga Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 93, Plot No. 699, Area .16, Owner—Shri 
Mojam Mondal. 


(103) No. 38000E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
istrict Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. ما1‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. 29, Plot No. 384, Area .63, Owner—Shri Md. 
Mojam Mondal, 


(104) No. 38002K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-statien Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. LL. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 98, Plot No. 567, Area .2], Owner—Shri Md. 
Mojam_ Mondal. 


-(f05) No. 33004E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station 00 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. 1. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 97, Plot No. 463, Area 1.78, Owner—Shri Md. 
Mojam Mondal. 


(106) No. 8800GK.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mousa 1১118, J. L. No. 67, [07087 
No. 194, Plot No. 1258, Area .11, Owner—-Shmri 


Md. Takkal Mandal. 


(107) No. 33008E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station 06. 
(۲)۶ ,ا 8ا10‎ L. No. 67, Khatian 
No. 194, Plot No. 1323, Area .18, Owner—Shri 
Md. Takkal Mandal. 


(108) No. 38010E.P.A., dated 20th July 1954. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Patia, J. Li No. 67, Khatian 
No. 194, Plot No, 13822, Area .15, Owner—-Shni 
Md, Takkal Mandal. 


(109) No. 33012E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 

Mauza Sntghata, J. LL. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 86, Plot No. 729, Area .61, Owner—Shri 
Fajital ‘Hossen Biswas. 


(110) No. 38014E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza 1*0 J. a. No. 67, = Khoatian 
No. 162, Plot No. 1297, Area .19, Owner—Shri 
Md. Rahim Box Mandal. 


(111) No. 38016EK.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Patin, J. .جا‎ No. 67,  Khatian 
No. 152, Plot No. 585, Area .45, Owner—Shri 
Md. Rahim Box Mandal. ‘ 


(112) No. 38018K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
Iistrict Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Maui = Patia, od. oa. .8ا13‎ 67 Khatian 
No. 152, Plot No. 059, ۸۰۰۰ .31, 0 Owner—Shri 
Md. Rahim Box Mandal. 


(119) No. 38020K.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 

1 Patia, at, le Ne Gi, Khatian 
No. 148, Plot No. G60, Aren 9.21, 0 Owner —Shri 
Md, Rahim Box Mandal. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 8131 


Sarva mare EE lS AOE IPS Re سو یو‎ PEE ےکی‎ ARAN RSE HAE AT ہے‎ TET A ھی نیم‎ TI এপ 


(114) No. 38238E.P.A., dated 20th July 1945. 

Diatrict Nadia, Police-station 
Mauza Patia, J. L. No. 67, 
No. 194, Plot No. 601, Area .24, 
Md. Takkal Mandal. 


Chavis 
Khatian 
Owner—Shri 


(115) No. 38240B.P.A., dated 20th July 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza 1১90) J. L. No. 67, Khatian 
No. 53, Plot No. 169, Area .42, Owner~-Shri Md. 
Munsarali Mondal. 


(116) No. 38242E.P.A., dated 20th July 1959. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Patia, J. ہا‎ No. 67, ' Khatian 


No. 538, Plot No. 1378, Area .12, Owner—Shri Md. 
Munaarali Mondal. 


(117) No. 33244K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


]istrict Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza _— Patia, J. L. No. 67, Khatian 


No. 51, Plot No. 1333, Area .73, Owner—Shri Md. 
Munsarali Mondal. 


(118) No. 33246KF.P.A., dated 20th July ۶۵۸۰ 


District Nadia, VPolice-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza SBanpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 731, Plot No. 1291, Area .63, Owner-—Shri 
Mahammad Mondal. 


(119) No. 33248Kh.P.A., dated 20th July 1959 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagany, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 646, Plot No. 825, Area .81, Owner—Shri 


Adamali Mondal. 


(120) No. 338250E.P.A., dated 20th July 190. 


District Nadia, Police-station  Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khbatian 
No. 666, Plot No. 168, Area .40, Owner-—-Shri 
Tjjatali Mondal. 


(121) No. 338252E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

Nistriet Nadia, 15175475828 Krishnaganj, 
Mauza  Banpur, J. lL. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 546, Plot No. 712, Area .75, Owner—Shri 
Akkas Ali Mondal. 


(122) No. 38254E.P.A., dated 20th July 1055. 


pode Nadia, Polios-station Krishnagan], 
Mauza Banpur, J. .ہا‎ No. 46, Khatian 
No. 602, Plot No. 767, Area .35, Owner—Shri 


Ijjatali Mondal. 


(123) No. 33256E.P.A., dated 20th July 1980. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza  Banpur, J. ےا1‎ No. 46,  Khatian 
No. 696, Plot No. 1284, Area .82, Owner—Shri 


Ijjatali Mondal. 


(124) No. 3838258E.P.A., dated 20th July 190. 

District Nadia, Police-station Krishnagan), 
Mauza Banpur, J. LL. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 712, Plot No. 717, Area .87, Owner—Shri 
Gaharali Mondal. 


(125) No. 83260E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Patia, J. L. No. 67, Khatian No. 194, 
Plot No, 1025, Area .3d, Owner—Shri Md. Takkal 
Mondal. 


(126) No. 38262E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mausza Benali, ےم( مل‎ No. 15. Whatian 
No. 351, Plot No, 384, Area .07, Owner -Shii 
Mobarak Mondal, 


3132 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr 1 


৯১৯৯৯ A nena Fenn 


(127) No. 882G4E.P.A., dated 20th July 58۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhah, 
Mauza Benali, J. L. No. 16,  Khatian 
No. 325, Plot No. 902, Area .31, Owner—Shri 
Talak Biswas. 


(128) No. 33266E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 


District Nadia, Police-atation Hanskhah, Mauza 
Benali, J. L. No. 18. 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
331 141 - 26 
331 142 “13 


Owner- -Shri Mabarak Mondal. 


(129) No. 38268E.P.A., dated 20th July 1905. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. ہا‎ No. 15, Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 297, Area .22, Owner—Shri 


Mabarak Mondal. 


(130) No. 88270E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. ہا‎ No. 15, Khatian 
No. 262, Plot No. 996, Area .69, Owner—Shri 
Sahaherali Malita. 


(191) No. 33272E.P.A., dated 20th July 19595. 
District Nadia,  Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. LL. No. 15,  Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 296, Area .29, Owner—Shri 
Mobarak Mondal. 
(192) No. 33274K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955 
District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhah, 
Mauza Benali, J. ہا‎ No. 15, Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 1008, Area .36, Owner—Shni 
Mobarak Mondal. 


(183) No. 33276K.P.A., dated 20th-July 1999. 


District: Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Bahirgachi, J. L. No. 73, Khatian No. 
145, Plot No. 181, Area .60, Owner—Shri Md. 
Paran Mondal. 


(184) No. 83278E.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhahy, 
Mauza Benali, J. L. No. 15,  Khatian 
No. 123, Plot No. $84, Area .09, Owner—Shri 
Sahaber Ali Malita. 


(135) No. 38280E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. L. No. 15, Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 305, Area .07, Owner—Shri 
Mobarak Mondal. 


(186) No. 38282E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauze 


Benali, J. L. No. 15. 
Khatian No. Plot No. Aréa. 
331 301 92ء‎ 
331 302 714 


Owner—Shri Mobarak Mondal. 


., dated 20th July 1950. 


istrict Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 335, Plot No. کہ‎ Area 1.19, Owner—NShri 
Badan Mondal. 


(188) No. 84163E.P.A., 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. ١. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 345, Plot No. 751, Area 1,15, Owner—Sbri 
Badan Mondal. 


(137, No. d4161E.P.A 


dated 20th July 1999, 


(189) No. 34165E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. .ہا‎ No. 46, Khatian 
No. 3380, Plot No. 750, Area 1.15, Owner—Shri 
Badan Mondal. 


(140) No. 34167E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. lL. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 339, Plot No. 726, Area 1.84, Owner—Shri 
Badan Mondal. 


(141) No. 34169E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 646, Plot No. 794, Area .19, Owner—Shri 


Md. Mondal. 


(142) No. 34171E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 

District Nadia, Police-station Banpur, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 710, Plot No. 806, Area 1.63, Owner—Shri 
Akkach Ali Mondal. 


(149) No. 34173E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. ہنا‎ No. 46,  Khatian 
No. 894, Plot No. 855, Area .81, Owner—Shri 


Mafizuddin Mondal. 


(144) No. 34175E.P.A., dated 20th July 1985 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza  Banpur, J. LL. No. 46, Khatian 
No, 335, Plot No. 701, Area 2.56, Owner—Shri 
Badan Mondal. 


(145) No. 34177E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. LL. No. 46, Khatian 
No. 245, Plot No. 823, Area .46, Owners—Shri 
Rustam Ali Mondal and others. 


(146) No. 338769E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian No. 
58, Plot No. 560, Area .61, Owner—Shri Ismail 
Mondal. 


(147) No. 33771B.P.A., dated 20th July 1999, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian No. 66, 
Plot No. 165, Area 1, Owner—Shri Md. Insan 
Mondal. 


(148) No, 33773E.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigipota, J. lL. No. 86, Khatian 
No. 66, Plot No. 951, Area .08, Owner—Shri Md. 
Insan Mondal. 


(149) No. 33775E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. .ما‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 25, Plot No. 764, Area .33, Owner—Shri 


Kayem Ali Mondal. 
(150) No, 38777H.V.A., dated 20th July 199. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 25, Plot No. 260, Area .23, Owner—Shri 


Kayem Ali Mondal. 


(151) No. 83779K.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. نا‎ No. 60, - ۵0+ 
No. 11, Plot No, 279, Area ,3I, Owner—Shrimati 
Atiran Bibi, 


Part I] 


(152) No. 33781K.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. ہا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 11, Plot No. 3, Area .38, Owner—Shrimati 
Atiran Bibi. 


(153) No. 33783E.P.A,, dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station 008 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. ll, Plot No. 7, Area .26, Owner—Shrinati 
Atiran Bibi. 


(154) No. 33785E.P.A., dated 20th July 1929, 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. ہا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 11) Plot No. 25, Area .34. Owner—Shrimati 
Atiran "Bibi. 


(155) No. 33787E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. LL. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 11, Plot No. 47, Area .36, Owner—Shrimati 
Atiran ‘Bibi. 


(186) No. 83789E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. .ا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 11, Plot No. 386, Area .22, Owner—Shrimati 
Atiran Bibi. 


(157) No. 88791E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian 
No. 66, Plot No. 1196, Area .16, Owner—Shri 
Md. Insan Mondal, 


(158) No, 88793E.P.A., dated 20th July 1909. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigipota, J. L. No. 86, Khatian 
No. 78, Plot No. 116, Area .09, Owner—Shri Md. 
[0890 Mondal. 


(159) No. 33795E.P.A., dated 20th July 1929. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mausn Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 111, Plot No. 687, Area 1.01, Owner—Shri 


Autal Haque Mondal. 


(160) No. 88797E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. .ہا‎ No. 60, Khatian 


No. 110, Plot No. 92, Owner-—Shri 


Khatir Mondal. 


Area .33, 


(161) No. 33799E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


101 Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mouza Mrigipota, J. .ا‎ No. 86, Khatian 
No. 66, Plot No. 1004, Area .17, Owner—Shri 
Md. Insan Mondal. ۱ 
(162) No. 33801K.P.A., dated 20th July 1909, 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ichapur, J. L. No. 66, Khatian 


No. 22, Plot No. 94, Area .19, Owner—Shrimati 
Parichhan Bibi. 


(163) No. 33808E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
auza Ichapur, J. L. No. 66, Khatian 
No. 146, Plot Nn 474, Area .41, Owner—Shri 


Motleb Mondal. 


(164) No. 38805E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
auza Ichapur, J. L. No. 66, Khatian 
No. 226, Plot No. 1071, Area .56, Owner—Shri 
Hossain Biswas. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


3133 


(165) No. 38807E.P.A., dated 20th July 1965. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapa, 
Mauza Ichapur, J. LL. No. 66, Khatian 


No. 54, Plot No. 401) Area 1.597, Owner-~Shri 
Hussain Biswas. 


(166) No. 33809E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station 
Mauza Ichapur, J. L. No. 06, 
No. 7d, Plot 5+ 110) Area 1.10, 


Hassain Biswas. 


Chapra, 
Khatian 
Owner—Shri 


(167) No. 33811E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mrigipota, . L. No. 86, Khatian 
No. 66, Plot No. 349, Area .17, Owner—Shri Md. 
Insan Mondal. 


(168) No. 83829E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza_ Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 192) Plot No. 756, Area .21, Owner—Shri 


Antal Haque Mondal. 


(169) No, 33831E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District’ Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza_ Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 150, Plot No. 684, Area .39, Owner—Shri 


Na bachaddi Mondal. 


(170) No. 33833E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. .ا‎ No. 60, Khatian 


No. 11. Plot No. 775, Area .36, Owner-—Shri Kalu 
Mondal. 


(171) No. 33885E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station 
Mauza_ Satghata, J. L. 2০. 60, 
No. 160, Plot No. 16, Area .62, 
Nabachaddi Mondal. 


Chapra, 
Khatian 
Owner—Shri 


(172) No. 38837E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 49, Plot No. 785, Area .12, Owner—Shri 
Nabichaddi Mondal. 


(173) No. 33839E.P.A., dated 20th July 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. .ا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 41, Plot No. 480, Area .24, Owner—Shri 
Antal Haque Mondal. 


(174) No. 38841E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 192, Plot No. 885, Area .17, Owner—Shri 


Antal Haque Mondal. 


(175) No. 38843E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 182, Plot No. 834, Area .44, Owner—Shri 
Antal Haque Mondal. 


(176) No. 38845E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. ہا‎ No. 60, XKhatian 
No, 182, Plot No. 836, Area .83, Owner—Shri 
Antal Haque Mondal. . 


(177) No. 38847E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. ہا‎ No. 60, Khatian 
No. 182, Plot No. 172, Area .26, Owner—Shri 
Antal Haque Mondal. 


9134 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


(178) No. 33849E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Satghata, J. L. No. 60, Khatian 
No. 182, Plot No. 626, Area .27, Owner—Shni 


Autal Haque Mondal. 


(179) No. 338931E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station § Kotwali, 
Mauza Hatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian 
No. 81, Plot No. 867, Area .38, Owner—Shn 
Kader Box Mondal. 


(180) No. 33933E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Jakipur, J. L. No. 91, Khataan 
No. 169, Plot No. 28, Area 1.05, Owner—Shri 
Mojot Ali Khan. 


(181) No. 33935E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza MHatisala, J. L. No. 81, Khatian 
No. 276, Plot No. 315, Area .40, Owner—Shri 
Rahtulla Khan. 


(182) No. 33937E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station | Karimpur, 
81088 Jakipur, J. L. No. 91, Khatian 
No. 169, Plot No. 29, Area .16, Owner—Shri 


Mojot Ali Khan. 
(183) No. 33939E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station §Karimpur, 

Mauza Jakipur, J. L. No. 91, Khatian 

No. 169, Plot No. 30, Area .18, Owner—Shni 

Mojot Ali Khan. 


(184) No. 33941E.P.A., dated 20th July 1965. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza Intaly, J. L. No. 85, # Khatian 
No. 27, Plot No. 914, Area 1.26, Owner—Shri 
Ayenaddin Mullick. 


(185) No, 33948E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


Instrict Nadia, Police-station | Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No. 91, Khatian 
No. 187, Plot No. 28, Area .19, Owner—Shri 
Mojot Ali Khan. 


(186) No. 38945E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station §Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No 91, Khatian 
No. 172, Plot. No. 24, Area .34, Owner—Shri 
Mojot Ali Khan. 


(187) No. 33947E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


Ihstrict Nadia, Police-station | Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No. 91, Khatian 
No. 208, Plot No. 8, Area .46, Owner—Shri 


Mojot Ali Khan. 


(188) No. 338949E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza = Takipur, . ہا‎ No. 91, Khatian 
No. 170, Plot No. 105, Area .21, Owner—Shri 
Mojot Ali Khan. 


(189) No. 33951E.P.A., 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza Hatisala, J. .ہا‎ No. 81, Khatian 
No. 258, Plot No. 269, Area .00, Owner—Shri 
Khoda Box Mondal. 


(190) No. 33993E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ichapur, J. .ہا‎ No. 66, Khatian 
No. 165, Plot No. 357, Area .59, Owner—Shri 
Md. Maniruddin Mondal. 


(191) No. 33955E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


dated 20th July ۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ichapur, J. L. No. 66, Khatian 
No. 123, Plot No. 294, Area .48, Owner—Shri 


Motleb Mondal., 


[Parr ] 


eel 


(192) No. 33957E.P.A., dated 20th July 1985. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ichapur, J. .ہا‎ No. 66, Khatian 
No. 12, Plot No. 1027, Area .57, Owner—Shri 


Motleb Mondal. 


(199) No. 83959E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
তা বা 20 8 No. 66, [08619 
0 ot No. r 16, O 
Motleb Mondal. ৪৫ مت‎ 


(194) No. 33961E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mausza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 586, 
Tae 1261, Area .36, Owner—Shri Rustamali 

onda 


(195) No. 33963E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Ch 
Mauza_ Ichapur, ‘J. L. No. 66, Khatian 
No. 35, Plot No. 394, Area ১26) Owner—Shri 
Serali Biswas. 


(196) No. 33965E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
বা او‎ WY L. No. 67, Khatian 
0 ot No. Ar whey 0 
Md. Rahim Box Mondal. = 0 


(197) No. 33967E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955, 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza = Patia, J. L. No. 67, Khatian 
No. 152, Plot No. 13804, Area .382, Owner—Shri 
Md. Rahim Box Mondal. 


(198) No. 33969E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Patia, J. L. No. 67, Khatian 
No. 152, Plot No. 1215, Area .42, Owner—Shri 
Md. Rahim Box Mondal. 


(199) No. 33971E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Patia, J. L. No. 67, Khatian 
No. 156, Plot No. 3, Area .395, Owner—Shri Md. 
Mayajaddi Mondal. 


(200) No. 383973E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Ichapur, J. L. No. 66, Khatian 
No. 146, Plot No. 473, Area .42, Owner-—Shri 
Motleb Mondal. 


(201) No. 338975E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 


Mollahad, J. L. No. 127. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
44 877 +23 
44 878 +26 


” Owner—Shri Fakir Mondal. 
(202) No. 338977E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. .ہا‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. 253, Plot No. 472, Area .338, Owner—Shri 


Ismail Mondal. 
(203) No. 33979E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 253, Plot No. 211, Area .79, Owner—Shri 


Ismail Mondal. 


(204) No. 33981E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 

District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 258, Plot No. 207, Area 1.06, Owner—Shri 
Ismail Mondal. 


Part 1] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3135 


(205) No. 33983E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 187, Plot No. 189, Area .48, Owner—Shri 
Ismail Mondal. 


(206) No. 33985E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. ہا‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. 253, Plot No. 603১ Area .48, QOwner—Shri 
Ismail Mondal. 


(207) No. 33987E.P.A., dated 20th July 56۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Mauza Mathurapur, J. .ا‎ No. 72, Khatian 
No. 253, Plot No. 605, Area 1.33, Owner—Shri 
Ismail Mondal. 


(208) No. 33989E.P.A., dated 20th July 1965. 


District Nadia, Police-station Chapra, 
Maura Mathurapur, J. L. No. 72, Khatian 
No. 58, Plot No. 607, Area 1.41, Owner—Shri 


Ismail Mondal. 
(809) No. 83991E.P.A., dated 20th July 1995. 


District Nadia, Palins at tian Karimpur, Mauza 
\\ Mollahad, J. L. No. 127. 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
47 50 “14 
47 ل5‎ +13 


Owner—Shri Fakir Mondal. 
(210) No. 33993E.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. .ا‎ No. 127, Khatian 
No. 44, Plot No. 220, Area .47, Owner—Shri 


Fakir Mondal. 
(211) No. 88995E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station | Karimpur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. L. No. 127, Khatian 
No. 47, Plot No. 10, Area .36, Owner—Shri Fakir 
Vondal. 


(212) No. 33997E.P.A., dated 20th July 1929. 
District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Mukterdaha, J. L. No. 145, Khatian 
No. 608, Plot No. 1170, Area .37, Owner—Shri 
Chunnat Shaik. 


(219) No. 38999E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 
District Nadia, — Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. .ہا‎ No. 127, Khatian 
No. 46, Plot No. 429, Area .54, Owner—Shri 
Fakir Mondal. 


(214) No. 34001E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station | Karimpur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. L. No. 127, Khatian 
No. 46, Plot No. 889, Area 18, Owner—Shri 
Fakir Mondal. : 


(215) No. 34003E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kat1impur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. L. No. 127, Khatian 
No. 46, Plot No. 578, Area .42, Owner-—Shri 


Fakir Mondal. 


(216) No. 34006E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station | Karimpur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. L. No. 127, Khatian 
No. 100, Plot No, 1042, Area .44, Owner—Shri 
Garib Mondal. 


(217) No. 34007E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Mollahad, J. L. No. 127, Khatian 
No. 189, Plot No. 800, Area .88, Owner—Shri 
Mulukchand Shaik. 


(218) No. 34009E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, امو و‎ Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No. Khatian 
No. 174, Plot No. 25, Area .50, ০ 
Abder Kha. 


(219) No. 34011E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J, L. No. 91, Khatian 
No. 170, Plot No. 15, Area .50, QOwner—Shri 
Majat Ali Kha. 


(220) No. 340]8E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955, 


District Nadia, _Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No. 91, Khatian 
No. 170, Plot. No. 26, Area .27, Owner—Shri 
Majatali Khan. 


(221) No. 34015E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station “Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No. 91, | Khatian 
No. 169, Plot No. 80, Area .58, Owner—Shri Md. 
Maharaj Kha. 


(222) No. 34017E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, _ Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Takipur, J. L. No. 91, Khatian 
No. 217, Plot ae 14, Area .29, Owner Shn Md. 
Maharaj Kha. 


(223) No. 34231E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balurghat, 
Mauza Trikul, J. L. No. 7. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
165 478 7ء‎ 
166 479 2-68 
165 460 1-20 


Owner—Shrimati Khatun Bibi. 


(224) No. 34233E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District West চি Police-statiqn Balur- 
ghat, Mauza Trikul, J. L. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 53, Plot No. 546, Area 1.02, "“Owner—Shri 
Jamin Sha. 

(225) No. 34235E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 
District West Dinajpur, » Policestation Balurghat, 


Mauza Triku L. No 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area, 
128 175 ‘66 
128 163 1:27 
1 164 02 
130 347 61 
130 354 22 
129 518 32 
129 608 69 
119 538 1:04 


Owner—Shri Lalit Mondal. 


(226) No. 342387E.P.A., dated 20th July 19565. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balur- 
ghat, Mauza Tnkul, J. L. No. 75, Khatian 
No. 29, Plot No. 6, Area 1.94, Owner—Shri 
Keramatulla Mia. 


(227) No. 84239E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balur- 
ghat, Mauza Trikul, J. L. No. 7d, Khatian 
No. 36, Plot No. 643, Area .89, Owner—Shri 
Jaliluddin Ahammed. 


(228) No. 34241E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District West Dinajpur, Police-station Balur- 
ghat, Mauza Trikul, J. lL. No. 75, Khatian 
ie hal Plot No. 667, Area ১68, Owner—Shri Tipa 

onda 


(229) No. 34243E.P.A., dated 20th July 1965. 


District Nadia, i pe اوت‎ Hanskhah, 
Mauza’ 361011) J. L. No. 16 Khatian 
No. 33], Plot No. 210, Area .6[, Owner—Shri 


Mobarak Mondal. 


3136 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUUUSYT' 16, 1956 


[Parr 1 


০০৯০ aoe TAR TN ee RE TR کسجستجچجٹجس/؛سس_سجحجچح‎ সস 


(2380) No. 34245E.P.A., dated 20th July 1999. 


District Nadia, اوت وت‎ [7909151781), 
Mauza = Benali Js da NO. Khatian 
No. 321, Plot No. 183, 4188, .53, رٹ‎ 


Mobarak Mondal. 


(231) No. 34247E.P.A., dated 20th July 1950. 


District Nadia, রি Hanskhali, 
Mauza Benali, J. .اہ‎ No. Khatian 
No. 331, Plot No. 208, Area .30, ০53 
Mobarak Mondal. 


(232) No. 34249E.P.A., dated 20th July 1959. 


District Nadia, Police-station Hanskhali, Mauza 
Benali, J. L. No. 15. 
Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
331 298 1ء‎ 
33) 299 15ء‎ 


Owner—Shri Mobarak Mondal. 
(288) No. 34087E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District . Nadia, . 28517 Kotwali, 
ics: Bansberia, J. L. No. 104, Khatian 
No. 65, Plot No. 887, Area .27, Owner—Shri 


Bashun Ali Mondal. 


(234) No. 34089E.P.A., dated 20th July 1929, 


District Nadia, Police-station _ Kotwali, 
ie Bansberia, J. LL. No. * Khatian 
No. 65, Plot No. 893, Area ১22) ক 
Rashun Ali Mondal. 


(235) No. 34091E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


Distrtct Nadia, 07১88 Kotwali, 
Weick Bansberia, J. ہا‎ No. 104, Khatian 
No. 9, Plot No. 241, Area .11, Owner—Shri Yakub 


Mondal. 
(236) No. 84093E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Wadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
; Bansberia, J. L. No. 104, Khatian No. 9. 


Plot No. Area. = 
229 “17 
230 22 
-39 


Owner—Shri Yakub Ali Mondal. 


(237) No. 34095E.P.A., dated 20th July 1956. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, Mauza 
; Hijuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian No. 72. 


Plot No. = Area. 
688 1ء‎ 
689 ‘33 


Owner—Shri Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(238) Mo. 34097E.P.A., dated 20th July ۰ 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwaii, 
ae Hijuli, J. .ا‎ No. 107, Khuatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 670, ۶۵ھ‎ .24, Owner—Shri 
Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(239) No. 34099E.P.A., dated 20th July 1929. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mus ; Hijuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 668, Area .60, Owner—Shri 
Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(240) No. 34101E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, 
Mauza Hijuli, J. bL. No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 666, Area .30, Owner—Shri 


Bad aresh Karim Biswas. 


(241) No. 34108E.P.A., dated 20th July 1905. 
District Nadia,  Police-station Kotwal, 
Mauwa Hijuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 466, Area .11, Owner—Shri 
Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(242) No. 34105E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, 
Mauza Hijuli, J. L. No. 107, Khbatiaon 
No. 72, Plot No. 465, Area .14, Owner—Shri 


Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(243) No. 34107E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 

District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, 
Mauza = Hiyjuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot (No. 368, Areun .47, Owner—Shvi 
Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(244) No. 34109E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwal, 
Mauza Hijuli, J. .ا‎ No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 362, Area .45, Owner—Shri 
Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(245) No. d3411LE.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
34805135011) J. L. No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 791, Area .82, Owner—Shn 


Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(246) No. 34113E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Kotwali, 
Mauza Hijuli, J. L. No. 107, Khatian 
No. 72, Plot No. 717, Area .36, Owner—Shn 


Badaresh Karim Biswas. 


(247) No. 34115E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia, Police-station Krishnaganj, 
Mauza Banpur, J. L. No. 46, Khatian No. 119, 
Plot No. 877, Area .39, Owner—Shri Rustam Ali 
Mandal. 


(248) No. 34117E.P.A., dated 20th July 1953, 


District Nadia,  Police-station 
Mauza Arabpur, . L. No. 182, 
No. 98, Plot No. 1328, Area .79, 
Momin. 23۲۰ 


(249) No. 34119E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


Karimpur, 
Khatian 
Owner—Shn 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza_ Arabpur, J. L. No. 132, Khatian 
No. 152, Plot. No. 1330, Area .39, Owner—Shri 


Momin Mondal. 
(250) No. 34121E.P.A., dated 20th July 1951. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur. 
Mauza Arabpur, J. L. No. 182, Khatian 
No. 152, Plot No. 1322, Area .39, Owner—Shri 


Momin Mondal. 
(291) No. 34123E.P.A., dated 20th July 1908. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimput, 
Mauza <Arabpur, J. L. No. 182, Khatian 
No. 162, Plot No. 216, Area  .21, Owner—Shri 


Panchu Malita. 
(252) No. 34125E.P.A., dated 20th July 1985. 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Sundalpur, J. L. No. 129, Khatian 
No. 263, Plot No. 3929, Area 3.70, Owner—Shri 
Tachimaddin Mondal. 


(298) No. 34127E.P.A., dated 20th July 1955. 


District Nadia,  Police-station Karimpur, 
Mauza Sundalpur, J. L. No. 129) Khatian 
No. 263, Plot No. 3738, Area .43, Owner—Sh71 
Tachimaddin Mondal. 


(254) No. 34129E.P.A., dated 20th July 5۰ 


District Nadia, Police-station Karimpur, Mauza 
Sundalpur, J. L. No. 129. 
Khatian No, Plot No, Area 
265 4099 +41 
791 4124 63 
323 4135 65 


Owner—Shri Tachimaddin Mondal. 


By order of the Evacuee Property 
Management Committee, West Bengal. 
J. N. MOOKHERJELE, 


Secretary to the Committee. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3137 
ai 7 2 ت2ا نا22‎ 72 le a : 
LABOUR DEPARTMENT 
ORDER 7 | 

No. 8817Dis./D/111-815/55.—8let July 1956.—Wherens under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 460 /D/ 
111.-315/55, dated the 4th October 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Groswami flour Mills, 914 Kalakar Street, Calcutta-7, and one of 
their employees Shri Purosottam Prosad Misra, 2 Synagogue Street, 
Calcutta-1, represented by himself regarding the matters specified in the 
schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial 
Tribunal ; 

And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government ita award on the said industrial dispute ; 

Now. therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Dispute Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 1s pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Coswami 
Flour Mills, 5/A Kalakar Street, Calcutta-7, and one ০0 their 
employees Shri Purosottam Prosad Misra, 2 Synagogue Street, 
Calcutta-1 (case No. VIII—310 of 1955), 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


রা PRESENT : 
burt SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sivth Industrial Tribunal. 


. Appearances : 
For the Company: Shri Gopal Chandra Das, Pleader. 
For the Employee: None. 


This reference made by the Government of West Bengal, by order 
No, 4769Dis./1)/111.-315/55, dated Caleutta, the 4th October 1955, is 
concerned with the discharge of Sri Purosottam Prosad Misra, by 
Messrs. Goswami Floor Mulls. 


The issues submitted for adjudicated are as follows :— 
(1) Is the discharge of Shri Purosottam Prosad Misra justified ? 
(2) What relief is he entitled to? 


The case set forth in the written statement presented by the employee 
is that he was in service under this Company since September 1954. On 
the 19th February 1965, the Company dispensed with the services on all 
of a sudden without assigning any reason. The salary due and compensa- 
tion for abrupt termination of services were promised to be paid but 
ultimately the Company tailed to redeem the promise. 


The Company in its reply submitted that this emplovee had left the 
service of his own accord on the Ist of February 1955, without rendering 
accounts. | 

The employee is fighting his own cause without receiving the support 
of any union or other employees of the Company. The question therefore 
anives whether this is an industrial dispute of which the Tribunal] can take 
cognizance. | 


And additional issue is accordingly framed. 


3138 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1960 [Parr] 
পাপ উস 
Issue No. 3 


Is this an industrial dispute which the Tribunal has jurisdiction to 
‘deal with? 


issue No. 3.—As pointed out above the cause of this employee has not 
been taken up by any union or other workers serving under this Company. 
This Tribunal had to deal with individual disputes of this type on a 
number of occasions and the view has been taken that such an individual 
dispute is not an industrial dispute as defined in the Industiral Disputes 
Acl. Reference may be made to two awards by this Tribunal which have 
been reported in 1956, ,ا‎ 114,105.) page 356, and 1966, 1, I..L.d., page 138. 
This view has been approved by a recent decision of the Hon’ble Calcutta 
High Court, reported in 66, C.W.N., page 856. The matter is therefore 
amply covered 2 authority binding upon this Tribunal. It must therefore 
be held that the dispute in question is not an industrial dispute and the 
Tribunal has no jurisdiction to deal with it. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge. 
S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge, Sith Industrial Tribunal. 
The, 21st July, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D.S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3304Dis./D/15L-5/56.—30th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. (۱ 
15L-5/56, dated the 5th May 1956, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
K. M. Sadhukhan and Sons, Rice and 011 Mills, Snanpiri Lane, Serampur, 
Hooghly, and their driver Shri Raghunath Shaw represented by the Motor 
Transport Workers’ Union, 249 Bow Bazar Street, ان‎ regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to 
the Second Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. K, M. Sadhukhan 
and Sons, Rice and Oil Mills, Snanpiri Lane, Serampore, Hooghly, and 
their driver, Shri Raghunath Shaw, represented by the Motor 
Transport Workers’ Union, 249 Bowhbazar Street, Calcutta, 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Sari G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial 7 7৮৮2৫, 


Part 1[ THE CAIAUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3139 


Appearances : 


For the Employee: Shri Sunil Roy, Member of the Executive Committee, 
Motor Transport Workers’ Union. 


Fur the Company: Shri Biswanath Ash, Advocate. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, by order 
No. 1886Dis./1)/157.-5/66, dated Sth May 1956, referred the above 
industrial dispute to this Tribunal for adjudication of the following issues 
as contained in the schedule to the order of reference :— 


Is the discharge of Shri Raghunath Shaw justified? To what relief 


is he entitled? 
AWARD 


Shri Raghunath Shaw was engaged as a driver by the firm on a monthly 
pay of Rs. 130. He worked there for more than one year with full satis- 
faction of the Company. On 25th October 1955 as usual, he came for duty, 
but he was not allowed to take up his work, and was told that his services 
were terminated with immediate effect. No reason was assigned, nor was 
any charge-sheet issued or enquiry held in the matter, This action of the 
Company has been stigmatised as illegal and unjust. The discharge, in the 
circumstances, 1s the basis of the grievance, which the Tribunal has to 
consider. Reinstatement with wages for the period of unemployment has 
accordingly been claimed. 


The Company’s version in short is that Shri Raghunath Shaw had 
voluntarily given up the job, and that his services were not terminated by 
the Company as alleged. It further stated that he, of his own accord, 
left the service of the Company on 24th October 1955, and did not report 
for duty on 25th October 1955 as stated. 


Shri Rabhunath Shaw has given his evidence, and on behalf of the 
Company, one of the partners, Shri Shyam Sundar Sadhukhan, and a 
darwan, Shri Krishna Bahadur by name, have been examined. Shri 
Raghunath Shaw has deposed that on 25th October 1955 when he came for 
duty as usual, he was all on a sudden discharged. He has denied of having 
relinquished his job of his own accord. But 0.P.W. 1 Shri Shyam Sundar 
Sadhukhan, one of the partners, bas stated that on 24th October 1955 Shri 
Raghunath Shaw has expressed his unwillingness to serve as their driver, 
and hence on that date he sent the key of the lorry, which he used to drive, 
through their durwan, Shri Krishna Bahadur, and that since then he did 
not turn up to work. He has emphatically denied that they dismissed or 
discharged him on 25th October 1955, at he turned up for duty. 
0.P.W. 2 Shri Krishna Bahadur is the darwan of the Company. His 
evidence 1s that on 24th October 1955 Shri Raghunath Shaw sent the key 
of the lorry, which he used to drive, through him stating that he would 
no longer serve under the Company. I have given my due consideration to 
the oral evidence as adduced on both sides. By view is that the version of 
the Company is acceptable. O.P.W. 1 Shri Shyam Sundar Sadhukhan, 
one of the partners, and O.P.W. 2 Shri Krishna Bahadur, darwan, deposed 
in a straightforward manner. It seems to me that they spoke the real 
truth, JI do not see any reason as to why they would depose falsely. 
0.۰۰ . 1 Shri Shyam Sundar Sadhukhan being.one of the partners of the 
firm appears to be a responsible person. It can hardly be believed that he 
would come to box to make a false statement. His evidence bears the stamp 
of truth. O.P.W. 2 Shri Krishna Bahadur, the darwan, has fully corro- 
borated the version of O.P.W. 1 Shri Shyam Sundar Sadhukhan. The very 
fact that Shri Raghunath Shaw sent the key of the lorry, which he used 
to drive, through darwan on 24th October 1955, indicated that he had no 
more any charm for the service under this Company, and was not willing 


3140 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr] 
পু eniiristaenaetsweseatansanaastanesesireetataanseeaeataeenein cites AP APTA TOTTI 


to serve there. Of course, ‘Shri Raghunath Shaw has denied the 1081 that 
he voluntarily gave up the job under the Company. But his evidence did 
not impress me In the least. He suppressed the real truth, 8170 hig 
demeanour in the witness box was not also satisfactory. Hence, the 
Tribunal has got to be extremely cautious in assessing the value of his 
evidence. After giving the best consideration and due weight to the entire 
evidence placed before it, the Tribunal is of the opinion that this wus a 
case of resignation, and not of termination of services by the employer. 
There is another fact, which points to the direction that Shri Raghunath 
Shaw had voluntarily given up the job under this Company. A certificate 
stating that Shri Raghunath Shaw was expert in driving and gave this 
Company every satisfaction during the period of his service there, was 
admittedly granted to him on 5th او من‎ 1955 by one of the proprietors 
of this Company. This has been produced and proved as Ext. 1 in this 
case. Had Shri Raghunath Shaw been really discharged or dismissed by 
the Company, such a certificate could not have been granted to him by 
ohe of the partners a few days after his alleged discharge. From the issue 
of this certificate, the conclusion can legitimately, be drawn that Shri 
Raghunath Shaw himself threw up the job under this Company, and 
wanted to try his luck elsewhere, where there were betted prospects for 
him, and that with this object, he obtained the certificate in question from 
one of the partners of the দক on 5th November 1955, Taking a com. 
prehensive view of the evidence and probsbilities, I have not an iota of 
doubt that the Company did not terminate the services of the employee con- 
cerned, but he had himself resigned. Such a case is beyond the bounds of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. In view of the above finding, the employee 
concerned has no grievance, for which the Tribunal may be called upon 
to grant relief. 


Diectated and corrected by me. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 20th July, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


1), ১. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 3819Dis. /1)/11L-235/55.—3lst July 1956.—Whereas under 6 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4780Dis./)/ 
111.-235/55, dated the 4th October 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs, Hiralal Shaw & Co., 4/5 Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, P. O. Belur- 
math, Howrah, and their workmen represented by (1) Shekh Osman, (1) 
Budhu Ahir, (111) Mazid Mistry, (iv) Kapil Deo Ram and others, C/o 
Ram Chandra Singh, 75 Joyabibi Road, P.O. Ghusury, Howrah, regard- 
ing the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudica- 
tion to the Third Insdustrial Tribunal ; 

And whereas the said Third Industrial has submitted to the State 
Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 


Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 19 pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


Tarr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 314} 
ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between Hiralal Shaw & Co., 4/5 
Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, P.O. Belurmath, Howrah, and their work- 
men represented by (i) Sheikh Usman, (ii) Budhu Ahir, (iti) Mazid 
Mistry, (iv) Kapil Deo Ram and others, C/o. Ram Chandra Singh, 75 
Joyabibi Road, P.O. Chusury, Howrah. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT : 
Suri J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industnal Trebunal. 


Appearances : 


For the Workers: Shri Jagannath Pandey. 
For Heralal Shaw § Co.: Shri N. K, Mukherji, Advocate. 


AWARD 


By order No. 4$780Dis./D/111.-235/55, dated the 4th October 1955, 
the (70611811761) of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, referred under 
section 10) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the industrial dispute 
between [Lliralal Shaw & Co., of 4/5 Ashutosh Mukherjee Road, P.O. 
Belurmath, Howrah, and their workmen represented by (1) Sheikh Usman, 
(11) Budhu Abir, (11) Mazid Mistry, (iv) Kapil Deo Ram and others, C/o 
Ram Chandra Singh, 75 Joyabibi Road, P.O. Ghusury, Howrah, regard- 
ing the matters specified in the schedule, to the Third Industrial Tribunal 
constituted under section 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, hy noti- 
fication No, )92)is/1)/12L-5/52, dated the 28rd February 1953, for 
adjudication. 


2. After usual notices the parties entered appearance and filed their 
written statements. The pleadings were completed on 3rd February 1956. 
The parties were thereafter directed 10 file their lists of documents. The 
dispute was heard on 10th July 1956. 


3. The matter of dispute as 8160 in the schedule to the order of 
reference is as follows :— 


If the closure of the factory was justified. To what relief including 
monetary compensation the workers were entitled as a result? 


0۷ 


Messrs. 11111 Shaw & (Co. (hereinafter called the employer) owns 
veveral cargo boats and carries on business of transport by boats. The 
employer has a workshop at 4/5 Ashutosh Mukherji Road, Belur, Howrah. 
There the employer maintains a small establishment to 81601 running 
repairs. The repair is done wtihout the aid of the power or machinery but 
hy hands. According to the employer it had in its employment at the 
relevant time 17 workmen while according to the written statement as filed 
on behalf of the workmen, the number of workmen in the employ was ১30. 
It is, however, agreed that workmen were all daily-rated workmen. ۔م(([‎ 
sides them, casual workers were and are employed from time to time accord- 
ing to necessity through contractors. 


3142 THE CAIXUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 | Part ] 
Seen ساس تسد شا‎ ed, 


Admittedly there was and is no registered Union for the workmen 
employed in the workskop. One Shri Ram chandra Singh of 75 Joyabibi 
Road, ‘claiming to be the Secretary of an unregistered Union of the work- 
men, raised a dispute over reduction of wages of two workers and moved 
the Assistant Labour Commissioner, Howrah, for intervention by a letter, 
dated 17th May 1955. Thereupon the Assistant Labour Commissioner 
called a conference on 18th May 1955 and on 6th June 1965 but without 
any response from the employer [Exts. 1 and 1(a)]. Subsequently, Shn 
Rum Chandra Singh claiming that more than 20 workmen were employed 
in the workshop and as such the workshop constituted a factory, moved the 
Factory Inspector for prosecution of the employer on the ground that the 
aan was not registered as such. Eventually «a prosecution was 
launched but it ended in acquittal of the employer (Ext. 1)), 


oe ee ey رس یڈہ‎ PRS aan 


In the meanwhile the employer closed the workshop from 24th June 
1955. On such closure aforesaid Shri Ramchandra Singh again moved the 
Labour Directorate for intervention. The employer having been asked for 
comments denied liability [Ext. 106)]. Thus as conciliation failed, the 
(iovernment made the reference under adjudication. 


It was urged on behalf of the workmen that the closure was unjustified 
and that the workmen were accordingly entitled to full wages during the 
period of closure from 24th June 1955 to 24th September 1955. The 
onployer, on the other hand, contended that the closure was forced upon 
it, the workmen having struck work from 24th June 1955. It was further 
said that there was subsequently a settlement between the employer on 
the one hand and the workmen on the other hand whereunder workmen 
aniong others agreed to accept at the rate of Rs. 20 per month during the 
period of three months the workshop remained closed. It was further said 
that when the workshop was reopened on and from 25th September 1955, 
the workmen were each paid the said compensation of Rs. 60, for the period 
سے‎ closure, and that they were entitled to no further compensation or 
relief, 


In support of the claim as laid on behalf of the workmen, none of the 
four representatives named in the order of reference, namely, Sheikh Osman, 
Budhu Ahir, Mazid Mistry and Kapil Deo Ram, nor any workman deposed 
before the Tribunal. The employer, on the other hand, has examined his 
oficer D.W. 1 Shri Benoy Kumar Paul serving in the workshop, besides 
proving documents (Exts. A to D). The evidence on the side of the 
enployer thus remains unrebutted. 


From the said evidence it appears that the closure was forced upon the 
employer, the workmen having refused 60 work. It further appears that 
subsequently there was a settlement between the employer and the work- 
men (1556, A), whereunder the workshop was reopened on and_ from 
26th September 1955 when all the workmen including the aforesaid_four 
representatives, viz., Sheikh Osman, Budhu Ahir, Magid Mistry and Kapil 
Jeo Ram and others in the employ just before the closure, resumed duty 
except one who did not, however, turn up for duty. Under the settlement 
the workmen agreed to accept compensation at the rate of Rs. 20 per month 
for the period of closure of three months and on their resuming duty, the 
evidence shows that they each received the said compensation of Rs. 60, 
for the period of closure. I have had nothing to discard the agreement 
which is Exhibit A. The representatives of the workmen as named in the 
order of reference who were parties to the said agreement, have not come 
forward to disown it. The positive evidence, on the other hand, shows and 
it is also not disputed that all the said four representatives have been 
working in the workshop since it was reopened on 20th September 1955. In 


part I] THE OALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3143 


the circumstances, I agree that no further monetary compensation 
should be given to the workmen. 1, however, direct that service of the 
workmen, who resumed duly, would not be affected by the closure and 
should be treated as continuous. It is awarded accordingly. 


])ictated and corrected by me. 


J. MAITRA, 
Judge. 
JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 


Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 
The 17th July 1956. 


7 By order of the Governor, 
1(. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3287Dis. /D/11L-422 দা July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 808Dis./D/ 
11L-422/55, dated the 28th February 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. W. R. Hildreth & Co., P. O. Box No. 2095, 45 Stephen House, 
Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-l1, and their employees mentioned 17) the 
schedule thereto, represented by Motor Transport Workers’ Union, West 
Bengal, 249 Bowbazar Street, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified in 
আব thereto was referred for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial 
Tribunal ; 


) And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. W. R. 
Hildreth and Co., Post Box No. 2095, 45 Stephen House, Dalhousie 
Square, Calcutta-1, and their employees mentionéd in the schedule 
below, represented by Motor Transport Workers’ Union, West 
Bengal, 249, Bowbazar Street, Caicutta (09459 No. VIII-38 of 1956). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 


PRESENT ; 
Suri SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sixth Industral Tribunal. 
Appearances: 
For the Company: Shri J. C, Bose, Pleader. 
For the Union: Shri M. A. Latif, Vice-President of the Union. 


The Government of West Bengal, by its order No. 808Dis. / D/11L-422 /55, 
dated Calcutta, the 28th February 1956, has referred for adjudication an 
industria] dispute existing between Messrs. W. R. Hildreth & (o., and their 
employees mentioned in the schedule to the order of reference. 


3044 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, ۸۲۷ 16, 6 [Part ] 


ie 


The points for ee 20 are as follows:— 


(1) Whether the retrenchment ‘of (1) Ramadhar Thakur, (11) Akkal 
Singh, (111) Ram Borai, (iv) Md. Yusuf, (v) Kalipada, (vi) 
Nayan and (vn) Tushar Kanti Ghosh, is justified? What 
relief are they entitled to? 


(2) Whether the dismissal of (1) Chand Gobin and (01) Subhanga, is 
justified? What relief are they entitled to? 


The Union’s written statement found fault with the Company for having 
retrench seven workmen by notice, dated 28th February 1955. According 
to the Union the retrenchment effected was unwarranted and was further 
vitiated by reason of non-compliance with the law which lays down that 
seniority rights must be safeguarded and juniormost employees have to 
make their exit first. Regarding the second issue the Union’s case is that 
there was no reasonable ground at all for refusal by the Company to allot 
duties to the two workmen from the 30th of March 1955. Those two 
employees are entitled to reinstatement with full compensation for the period 
of unemployment. 


The Company in its rejoinder expounded the case that it had lost the 
petronage of an important customer from whom the business was deriving 
handsome profits. The loss in business was such that the staff of the depart- 
ment concerned with the business had to be reduced. The management had 
its hand forced and had no other alternative but to eftect retrenchment. 
As the step was taken under stress of circumstances over which the manage- 
ment had no control it tried its level hest to provide the retrenched workmen 
with employment elsewhere. In fact one of the men retrenched has been 
given employment through the intervention of Mr. Hildreth, the Proprietor 
of the concern. Retrenchment was made on bona fide ground and not in 
pursuance of any ulterior object. 


Chand Gobin and Subhanga were guilty of misconduct in so far as they 
were involved in starting a lorry belonging to the Company and moving it 
out of its place in the absence of the licensed driver. They were warned 
but the employees did not take the warning in the right spirit. They 
became defiant and questioned the right of the Proprietor to give them 
any warning. They intentionally absented themselves and quitted the job. 
No order of dismissal was passed hy the Proprietor. 


issue No. 1.—The Glaxo Laboratories used to get their booking and 
despatching work done by this Company. In the month of January 1955, 
Glaxo Laboratories decided to withdraw the work hitherto performed by the 
Company. The letters Exts. A(1) and A(2), dated the 22nd January 1955, 
and 1188 February, respectively, bear upon this point. According to 
Mr. Hildreth the loss suffered by him on the termination of the contract 
by the Glaxo Laboratories amounted to approximately Rs. 3,000 per month. 
Tt is 1 the Union’s case that the business had suffered no loss. In para- 
graph 3 of the written statement of the Union the statement appears that 
services Of seven workmen were terminated on the ‘‘dubious পি 
that they had lost the patronage of a client. Properly construed this means 
that the Union was doubtful about the truth of the allegation that the Com- 
pany had lost custom. In paragraph 5 of the written statement there is no 
doubt that the termination of service waa not caused چنا‎ reason 
of trade necessity. But the fact remains that the services of this 
concern were no longer required by the Glaxo Laboratories. It goes without 
saying, that some loss was caused by the withdrawal of the commission. 
The statement Ext. C., prepared from the accounts produced before the 


Parc J] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3145 


CR EN RENT EN ER NR جس وچیس موی جد ہی‎ 


TriMunal for verification, shows that the business wis on the down grade. 
Ram Adhar Thakur, P., W. 1, admitted that the Glaxo Laboratories had 
withdrawn their patronage and the Company was not given any work to he 
done by them. The witness further admitted that when Mr. Hildreth went 
home last in 1955, he called the workers and exhorted them to work to the 
peak of their capacity. On his return from home he told the workers again 
that unless they stretched themselves to the utmost and worked strenuously 
he would have no other alternative but to close the business. Unless the 
business had struck a bad patch, the Proprietor could have no occasion to 
go out of his way to address the workers in this strain. The testimony of 
thia witness therefore lends countenance to the case of the Company that 
the business had suffered to a large extent and the prospects were bleak. 
In the face of these facts the Tribunal must hold that the retrenchment 
was made for bona fide trade reasons. Ram Adhar admitted that he was 
on cordial terms with ‘the management. The Proprietor bore the workers 
no ill will. Since admittedly চা were friendly no suggestion can be 
made that retrenchment was decided upon as a measure of punishment or in 
pursuance of extraneous aims. The Company has proved that retrenchment 
was necessary because of loss of business and the Union witness had admitted 
that relations between the employer and the employed were peaceful and 
friendly. Against this backpround there 1s no scope for argument that 
retrenchment was mala fide. The Tnion’s contention that after the retrench- 
ment the Company engaged the services 01 fresh hands carries no weight 
in view of Mr. Hidreth’s evidence that according to exigencies of business 
only labourers (coolies) are engaged from time to time os before. There 
has been no addition to the staff. The Tribunal has supervisory jurisdiction 
and cannot arrogate to itself the right to sit as a court of appeal against the 
decision of the management. Its supervision is confined to find out whether 
the employer is acting bona fide and whether he has reasonable ground for 
wanting 10 pass the order or taking the action impugned. In this case the 
Tribunal is satisfied that the management acted bona fide and had reasonable 
ground for reducing its staff. The employer, it has been held, is prima facie 
the best judge to determine the strength of his labour force and when he 
acts bona fide and without any other ulterior motive, he has the right to 
retrench a number of workmen which he considers to be surplus. Applying 


this principle to the present case I hold that the retrenchment was fully 
justified. 


The Union raised a point that the principle of ‘‘last come, first (০১? was 
not observed. Ram Adhar Thakur stated generally that there are cooly 
sarders still in service junior to him. The Union did not however supply 
specific particulars and data. No suggestion was given in course of cross- 
examination of Mr. [11107611718 naming particular employees who were retain- 
ed in service though judged by the test of seniority they would have to 
leave. In the absence of positive evidenve the Tribunal is unable to hold 
that the principle aforesaid was actually violated. In the result it is held 
that the retrenched people are entitled to relief as provided in 25(f) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. There was a dispute as to the length of service. 
Ram Adhar Thakur is supposed to have been in scrvice since 1935. Mr. 
Hildreth deposed that records and registers are not preserved for more than 
3 years. He was uot therefore in u position to state that dates of appoint- 
ment of these employees. The length of service cannot hence be determined 
accurately, We have to follow a rough and ready method. According 
Ram Adhar Thakur, he joined in 19343 as a cooly in the soap godown of 
Lever Brothers. This Company had obtained a contract from Lever 
Brothers. In 1942 he was transferred to the lorry department of this 
Company, and in 1943 he was made a cooly sarder. Mr. Hildreth stated 


3146 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr 1 


পপি ০৮০৩ কেটি 


that Ram Adhar Thakur entered service in this Company in 1942. From 
December 1940 or 1941 to April 1946, Mr. Iildreth was, on his own show- 
ing, not on the spot, being in military service during the period. It was 
urged on behalf of the union that his evidence regarding the commencement 
of Ram Adhar’s service is hence unworthy of credit. From the evidence of 
Mr. Hildreth we find so far that Ram Adhar was not in service when he 
jomed the military. I think Ram Adhar came on the staff of this Company 
in 1942 when according to his statement he was transferred to the lorry 
department. In calculating retrenchment relief Ram Adhar Thakur must 
be treated as in service from May 1952 as according to the Union hia service 
had commenced in the month of May (vide Ext. 1). With regard to the 
other employees the management did not challenge the Union version 
regarding the date of commencement of service. Retrenchment relief is to 
be calculated treating the time of appointment stated in Ext. 1 to be 
correct in so far as the other six employees are concerned. The retrenched 
employees will also recover one month’s wages as notice pay. Payment 
must be made within 15 days from the date of the publication of the award 
in the Calcutta Gazette. ) 


issue No. 2.—The issue as framed assumes that Chand Gobin and 
Subhanga were dismissed. The Union’s case however in paragraph 10 of 
the written statement is that no notice was issued by the Company terminat- 
ing the services of these two employees. What the Company did was to 
refuse to assign them any duties from 30th of March 1955. From the 
evidence it is established that these two men were charged with misconduct 
In connexion with an incident happening on the 12th of March 1966. 
Ext. 1(b) is a letter addressed to Chand Gobin in which the circumstances 
have been described. In the absence of the driver of a lorry belonging to 
the Company which was standing at No. 2 Calcutta Jetty Subhanga had 
got into the driving seat, starting the engine he had backed the lorry at a 
high speed. He had no driving licence. Suinan and Chand Gobin, two 
coolies were in the same lorry. The driver of another lorry protested against 
these people moving the lorry in this way. Thereupon Subhanga and Chand 
Gobin had shouted to him that he had no authority to say anything, the 
lorry not having been entrusted to his care. Chand Gobin and رف‎ 
were warned that similar conduct in future would be visited with drastic 
punishment in the form of dismissal. It may he stated in passing that 
Suinan had thrown himself at the mercy of the Company and_ secured 
pardon. Chand Gobin and Subhanga took an intransigent attitude and 
approached the Union. According to Mr. Hildreth they stopped attending 
to their duties after the 30th of March. He had not seen their hide or 
hair after that day. The UWnion’s case on the other hand is that they were 
dismissed on 5th of April by the letter Ext. .(ج)(‎ Ext. |] ٢ is a letter of 
explanation addressed by Chand Gobin and Subhanga to Mr. Hildreth in 
which they stated that they had to move the lorry to make room for two 
carts to pass. In his evidence before the Tribunal Subhanga categorically 
denied the happening of any incident on the 12th of March. He was not 
prepared even to acknowledge the facts alleged in Ext. l(c). Be that as ۷ 
may, they indulged in some correspondences with the Proprietor regarding 
this matter. The Proprietor had warned them to be careful in future. No 
action was taken for the incident of the 12th. It is unfortunate that the 
workers did not accept the warning in a becoming spirit but sought the 
assistance of the Union to provoke a conflict creating bitterness. It seems 
these two workers having been taken under the wings of the Union felt that 
they were well protected and might tilt against the management. In the 
letter Ext. 162) Mr. Hildreth stated that he had not seen Chand Gobin 
at office or at the garage for about a week. Subhanga in his evidence stated 


Part [| THE 04140107014 GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3147 


that he had been to his place of work throughout the whole month of March 
1965, but did not get any work. He did not say that he had attended in 
April. According to Mr. Hildreth these two employees had disappeared 
after 30th of March. The evidence given by Subhanga does not militate 
against Mr. Hildreth’s testimony. Balancing the evidence given by the Union 
and the Proprietor, I find that Mr. Hildreth’s evidence is entitled to greater 
weight. My conclusion therefore is that these two workers had of their 
own accord ceased to attend their duty and had by their own conduct thrown 
up their job. Their services were not terminated by the Proprietor. No 
question of relief can hence arise. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


S. SENGUPTA, Judge. S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Sizth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 20th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. F. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3298Dis. /D/111-265 /55.—30th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
(Jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3879Dis. /D/ 
117.-265/55, dated the 26th July 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Calcutta Dyeing & Cleaning Co., 38 Wellington Street, Calcutta, 
and their workmen represented by Laundry Workers’ Union, 52 Doctor Lane, 
Caleutta-14, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was 
referred for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the anid Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government Its award on the said Industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Indusiria] Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
ما‎ publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Calcutta 
Dyeing & Cleaning Co., 38 Wellington Street, Calcutta, and _ their 
workmen represented by laundry Workers’ Union, 52 Doctor Lane, 
Calcutta-14 (case No. ۷۱۱۲۰221 of 1955.) 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA. 


PRESENT : 
Suri SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sirth Industrial Tribunal. 
Appearances : ৮ 


For the Company: Shri N. K. Mookherjee, Advocate, instructed by 
Shri D. M. Lahiri, Advocate, 


For the Union: Shri Patit Paban Pathak, assisted by Shri Dilip Kumar Jas, 
Secretary of the Union. 


3148 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Part I 
_ This reference made by the Government of West Bengal by order 
No, 83879Dis./D/1U1-265/55, dated Calcutta, the 26th July 1955, relates 


111৮1101710 the terms and conditions of serviceof the employees serving under 
the Calcutta Dyeing & Cleaning Co. 


The issues formulated in the order of reference are as followe:— 
(1) Grades und scales. 

(2) Dearness allowance. 

(3) Working hours. 

(4) Leave and holidays. 

(5) Confirmation of service. 

(6) Gratuity and Provident Fund. 

(7) Increment. 

(8) Bonus for 1954. 


(9) Whether refusal of employment to Shri Chhediram was justified 9 
To what relief is he entitled? 


The Union representing the workmen submitted a charter of demands 
dated the 18th of August 1953. A revised charter of demands was submitted 
on the 918 of May 1954. 


With regard to one employee, viz., Chhediram the Union’s grievance is 
that his application for leave was turned down by the management in the 
first instance but ultimately the management was forced to grant leave for 
a month from Ist to 30th of June 1954. When he returned from leave on the 
Ist of July, he was precluded from resuming his duties. All efforts to per- 
suade the management to provide him with work came to naught. Besides 
the reliefs concerning the conditions of service the Union wants Chhediram 
to be reinstated with consequential reliefs. 


The Company in its reply. challenged the soundness and propriety of the 
claims made by the Union in regard to conditions of service. It maintained 
that the business had suffered a landslide owing to the growth of laundry 
business on a large scale and competition growing keener und keener. 
Labour charges had gone up and profits had gone down. Wages paid to the 
staff were higher than the wages paid in simular’ establishments 11) the 
neighbourhood. 


In regard to Chhediram the Company's case is that before proceeding on 
leave he had washed a shirt and panjabi belonging to an outsider with the 
washing materials of the Company. These were kept in the custody of the 
Manager and on Chhediram’s return he was charge-sheeted tor misconduct 
on account of unauthorised washing of those garments. When the charge- 
sheet was tendered to him Chhediram refused to accept the charge-sheet and 
left the premises of the Company. He did not return to attend his duties. 
The Company was satisfied that this employee was guilty of misconduct and 
placed him under suspension. 


Issue Nos. 1, 2 and 7.—Grades and scales, dearness allowance, and 
increment.—These three points may be considered jointly. The Company’s 
contention was that after the partition of Bengal when there was large 
influx of immigrant population from Fast Pakistan, dyeing and cleaning 
establishments had sprung up like fungus from rotten wood, Competition 
was very keen. Necessarily the existing establishments suffered loss of 
income. The exiting scales of pay are eminently fair and should not he 
enhanced at this stage. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3149 


নি... 


wit must be conceded that there was a steady growth of laundry eatablish- 
ments with the result that income has been affected. That is ونم‎ no 
reason why the employees should be left in a state of uncertainty as to their 
prospects so far as their emoluments are concerned. 1৮ does not appear that 
the Company grants any increments, [The employee: must not be 0 511ا‎ 68+ 
ing as to their fate. In the circumstances it is expedient that scales of pay 
of the different categories of workers should be fixed. In the recent past 
IT had occasion to consider and determine the scale of wages of & sister 
concern, viz., British India Cleaners. The award made was published in the 
Calcutta Gazette, dated April 12, 1956. The present concern stands almost 
on the same plane as the British India Cleaners. The only noticeable 
difference is that British India Cleaners have got boiler and dry cleaning 
machine, The Caleutta Dyeing and Cleaning ('o. are without these para- 
phernalia. The Union produced a chart Ext, 3(a) showing wages drawn by 
different categories of workmen 11) some other dyeing and cleaning establish- 
ments. This chart and the earher award will provide helpful guidance in 
fixing the seule of wages. In the revised charter of demands Ext. l(a) the 
Union claims wages for boys, coolies, peons, durwans, and chulli lighter to 
he fixed at Rs. 40—1—60. The Calcutta Dyeing & Cleaning Co has been pay- 
ing Rs. 20 as basic pay and Rs. 25 as dearness allowance at a flat rate to 
these classes of workers. The minimum is thus Rs. 45 and the maximum 
is Rs. 23 as basic pay plus Rs. 25 as dearness allowance making a total of 
Rts. 48. According to the chart Ext. 3(a) the Shanghai Company pays a 
consolidated sum of Rs. 50 to 60. British India Cleaners used to pay 
Ra. 50. By the award the puy of meninls was fixed at Rs. 40-—-l1—60. As 
the Union demand agrees with the scale determined in the earlier award the 
same is accepted so far as these workers are concerned. It is unnecessary 
to treat basic pay and dearness allowance separately. Dearness allowance 
will remain merged in the pay thus settled. 


In the Union chart Rs. 60—3—80 has been claimed for van-man and 
tailors, No such categories can be traced in the chart Ext. 8(a). In Ext. 3 
it is stated that the tailor drawn Rs. 45 per month, Rs. 20 being basic pay 
and Rs. 25 as dearness allowance. Though Noor Muhammed is و‎ 
ax 0۳7 (tailor) his duty actually is to do needle work for repairing torn. 
linings, ete. I fix the scale for darji at 45—]—60. 


The minimum pay for washerman is Ks. 50 and the maximum is Rs. 64. 
The Union claims Rs. 50—1-8—65—E.B.—2-8—90. Following the earlier 
award I fix the seale for washerman at Rs, 50—2—60—E. B.—2-8—80, 


Ironers are getting minimum pay of Rs. 49 and maximum Rs. 84. The 
Union’s demand is thut wages should be on the 90019 of Rs. 50—2—70—3— 
100. As the scale is less than what was granted in the earlier award I give 
effect to the Union demand and fix the wages as claimed. 


In the Union chart Ext. 3(a) there are workers designated menders. In 
Ext. 8 one Jan Mohammed is described us mender, who is paid Rs. 2-12 per 
diem. I fix the scale for menders at Rs. 60—2—90. 


In Ext. 3 the pay of the dyers is shown as Rs. 125. In Ext. 3(a) none 
designated dyer finds place. The scale expected by the Union is 


Rs. 70—3-—100—E.B.—5—150. Dyers’ scale is fixed at Rs. 70-—3—100-— 
K.B.—5—150. 


Clerks and assistants are paid mintmum wages of Rs. 00,100 maximum 
Ra. 120. The Union claims on the scale of Rs. 75—4—]15—E.B.—7—185. 
In Ext. (م)3‎ the wages paid by two concerns only been stated. The British 
India Cleaners used to pay minimum wages of Its. 80 and maximum Rs. 140, 
By the award the scale was fixed at Rs. 80 to Rs. 175. In this case the Union 
having claimed Rs. 75 as the minimum the same is accepted and the scale 


3150 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Part 1 


is fixed at Rs. 75—4—115—E.%.—6—I%. The learned Union represewta- 
tive had pressed for dearness allowance being kept separate. No useful pur- 
pose would be served by allocating a part of the wages towards the claim for 
dearness allowance. All the other concerns mentioned in Ext. 8(a) pay con- 
solidated. wages. In the case of British India Cleaners also the wages are 
consolidated. No difficulty or inconvenience will be caused if the same 
pattern is followed in this case. ۱ 


Issue No, 3.—WVerking hours.—Working hours in the workshop which 
is subject to the Factories Act will necessarily remain 48 hours a week. In 
the shops the period of work will not be more than 56 hours a week. 


On behalt of the workers a plea was put forward that half-holiday should 
be observed on Saturdays. The management will in consultation with the 
Union so adjust the hours of work during the week so that the workers may 
be off duty at 3 p.m. on Saturdays. 


Issue No. 4.—Leave and holtdays.—The shop employees will enjoy leave 
in accordance with section 12 of the Bengal Shops and Establishments Act, 
1940. 

The employees in the workshop will have annual leave, as prescribed under 
section 79 of the Factories Act. They will also get 7 days’ sick leave on 
full pay in a year on medical certificate granted by a registered doctor s0 
long as they are not entitled to sick leave in accordance with the Employees 
State Insurance Act. The workshop employees will also get 5 days’ casual 
leave in a year on full pay. 

The Company grants 5 days to all employees and 3 additional days to 
Muslim ازم‎ as holidays in a year. In my view no distinction should 
be made and all members of the staff should be allowed to enjoy holidays 
in the same way. I think the number of holidays is rather small. They 
should have 10 holidays as in the earlier award with full pay in connection 
with the festivals mentioned below :— 


Republic day—One day. 

Dol Jatra—One day. 

First Baisak—One day. 
Id-il-Fitr—One day. 

Independence day—One day. 
Muharram—One day. 

Durga pujah Bijaya day—One day. 
Kali pujah day—One day. 
Viswakarma pujah—One day. 
Tduz-Zuha—One day. 


Issue No. 5.—Confirmation of service.—Confirmation would follow after 
a six months’ apprenticeship on service being approved. 


Issue No. 6.—Gratuity and Provident Fund.—Gratuity and Provident 
Fund are long-term reliefs: which appear inappropriate in a case of the 
present description. This is not a big scale business. Its future depends on 
uncertain factors. The reliefs already granted will put some strain upon 
the business. Any further strain will be too heavy to bear. I decline 
therefore to make any provision for gratuity or Provident Fund. 


Part 1] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 315} 


ہیی 


assue No. 8.—Lonus for 7007006 Company has not produced its 
account book evidence has been produced as to its financial position and the 
profits earned in 1954. The Assistant Manager wax unable to say anything 
about the financial position. The Union’s case 1s that the business was so 
conducted in 1954 that there was comfortable margin, remaina uncontra- 
dicted. The learned Advocate for the Company suggested that 16 days’ 
wages might be paid as bonus for 1954. Since the Company has withheld 
its accounts and has thereby shut out the Tribunal from making an accurate 
estimate, there is no reason why the Union claim should not be granted in 
its entirety. Wages 06010158161) to one month’s pay are allowed to the 
employees as bonus for 1954 which must be paid within 15 days from the 
date of publication of the award in the Calcutta Gazette. 


Issue No. 9.—Whether refusal of employment to Shn Chhediram was 
justified? To what relief is he entitled?—Chhediram had applied for leave 
which was refused. Not satisfied with the order rejecting his ۵٥۹ 
Chhediram moved the Assistant Labour Commissioner and Chief Inspector 
of Factories. The Company was ultimately compelled to grant leave for a 
month. After he had left it came to the notice of the Company that a shirt 
and a panjabi belonging to an outsider were washed and ironed by Chhediram 
on the tactory premises with factory materials. Chhediram had left instruc- 
tions with his cousin Ramlekha to hand over the shirt and panjabi to the 
owner. The washed articles could not however be taken out of the factory 
and were kept detained by the Manager. On his return from leave 
Chhediram was tendered a charge-sheet for misconduct on the ground that he 
had washed these articles with the Company’s materials. Chhediram’s case 
is that he wos not allowed to resume his duties and the Company’s case 18 
that being offered the charge-sheet Chhediram bridled up and left the tactory 
in a fit of temper. He did not return to report for duty. There was some 
controversy as to the ownership of the shirt and panjabi. Chhedi’s case 
18 that the shirt and panjabi belong to his brother-in-law Dewan Dhobi, 
an ex-emplovee of this Company. They were washed and ironed and kept in 
Chhedi’s box awaiting return. When he went home he instructed Ramlekha 
to make them over to Dewan Ram. The Company’s case 18 that these 
garments belong to one Mathuram of Bagmari Road. Chhediram _ had 
voluntarily offered to have them washed in the Company’s factory and had 
actually done so. Later Mathuraram claimed these articles as his own. It 
is immaterial to whom the shirt and panjabi belonged. The crucial point is 
whether the washing was an act of such misconduct as would justify refusal 
to give work to the employee. The issue as framed takes it for granted that 
Chhediram as refused employment. The Tribunal is to take the issue .s 
framed and give its decision whether the refusal was justified. The Company 
admits having placed Chhediram under suspension. Chhediram stated that 
during off hours the emplovees can wash thais clothes with their own 
materials and iron them. The Company could not produce any evidence 
that the Company’s materials were used hy Chhediram. As the employees 
were free to wash their clothes, no fault can be found for Chhediram under- 
taking the washing of the shirt and pan;aht so long it is not established that 
he had used উল materials helonging to the Company. As observed 
above evidence is lacking on this score. Chhediram had applied for leave 
but his prayer was refused by the Company in the first instance. He did 
not take the refusal lying down. Ultimately the Company was forred to 
concede his prayer. His attitude in thus challenging the authority of the 
management and succeeding in securing a victory over them maythave flicked 
the authorities in the raw. This probably accounts for the action against 
him. In the circumstances I must hold that the Company was not 
justified in refusing to give employment to Chhediram. Chhediram must 
be deemed to be in service all the time and will get his wages for the whole 


3152 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Part I 


عیووٹوویودیسوجویہ سم ھی حیسم سیسسدددسجیدتپودوےسپہسے۔ سے سیسسوومجےحوجسسست ج”س+/ڈ Soe‏ 


period. Half the wages must be paid within 15 days of publication of the 
award and the other half within 15 days thereatter. | 


The scales of pay fixed by the award will become operative from the first 
day of the month following its publication in the Calcutta Gazette. Any 
employee drawlag pay whieh is intermediate between two stages in any scale 
will he placed at the stage just above the present pay. Increment will be 
earned on completion of one year’s continuous service from the date the 
scales come into force. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


S. SENGUPTA, S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge. Judge, Siath dndustrial Tribunal 


The 18th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. S. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3877Dis. /D/11L-738/56.—8rd August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6056Dis. /1)/ 
11L-432/55, dated the 22nd December 1955, read with its corrigendum 
No. 2262))is./D/11L-482/55, dated the 28th May 1946, the industrial 
dispute between Messrs. বি. S. Kapur and Md. Zakuria, Proprietors, 
Kashmir Restaurant, 23 Wellesley Street, Calcutta, and their workers 
represented by Calcutta Hotel Bar and Restaurant Employees’ Union, 249 
Bowbazar Street, Caleutta-12, regarding the matters specified in the schedule 
thereto was referred for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tnbunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIVof 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. 8. 8. Kapur 
and Md. Zakaria, Proprietors, Kashmir Restaurant, 23 Wellesley 
Street, Calcutta, and their workers represented by Calcutta Hotel Bar 
and Restaurant Employees’ Union, 249 Bowbazar Street, Calcutta-12 
(case No. Vill—392 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 
Surt SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sirth Industrial Tribunal. 


۱ Appearances: 

For the Kashmir Restaurant: ডি, 8. Kapur, Proprietor. 

For the Union: Shri Sunil Dhar, Vice-President, assisted by Shri Ganga 
Prosad Singh, Assistant Secretary. 


partI] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3163 
ee cece ee eee +۹٤9 بوبؤ+بؤ‎ ب٤‎ 


THis reference was made by the Government of West Bengal by order 
No. GOS6Dis. /D/11L-432/55, dated 22nd December 1955, and subsequent 
corrigendum No. 2262Dis./D/111-482/55, dated Calcutta, the 28th May 
1956, for adjudication of disputes existing between Messrs. 5. S. Kapur and 
Md. Zakaria, Proprietors, Kashmir Restaurant, and their employees. 


The points for adjudication have been formulated in the order of refer- 
ence in the following terms :— 


(1) Pay and allowances. 

(2) Daily hours of work and overtime.. 
(3) Leave and holidays. 

(4) Bonus. 

(5) Retiring benefits. 


(6) Whether the management was justified in dismissing the following 
workers :-— 


(a) Md. Osman. (g) Shankar. 

(b) Mansur. (h) Abdul. 

(c) Noor Nabi. (i) Noor Amin. 
(d) Salim. (1) Dilip. 

(e) Yusuf. (k) Nancow Ram. 
(f) Jabbar, (1) Riyaz. 


Written statement was filed by the Union on behalf of the Union first 
on 25th January 1956. In this written statement the Union submitted that 
a charter of demands was presented to Proprietors on 6th September 1955, 
but the Proprietors treated the same with scant courtesy. Nothing was 
10716 to give relief as desired by the employees. Thereafter the employees 
banded themselves together and formed a Union. Charter of demands was 
again presented with no better results. The Labour Department was moved 
but efforts at conciliation having proved infructuous reference was made to 
this Tribunal. In the written statement filed subsequently on 20th June 
1956, the Union dealt with the issue subsequently added. According to the 
employees Md. Osman and his mate Yusuf were dismissed on 9th December 
1955 without any reason. All the remaining emplovees were dismissed on 
10th December 1955. The Proprietors resorted to these drastic measures 
simply because the employees had the temerity to form the Union. They 
claim reinstatement and compensation. 


The Proprietors in the original written statement submitted on 13th 
March 1956, alleged that the employees were being handsomely remunerated. 
Besides wages, they were provided with meals worth about Rs. 50 per 
month and each of them used to get anna I to annas 4 for pam and bir. 
Fixation of grade was objected to as the business was still in its infancy and 
had to pasa through hard times. 16 was also stated that out of 24 workers 
14 quitted service without any notice after receiving their wages on the 
4th of December 1955. In the additional written statement the Proprietors 
stated that on desertion by this group of workers a notice was put up on the 
Notice Board but none of them came back to resume their duties. This was 
not an incident of dismissal by the Maliks. 


Issue No. 1.—Annexure A to the Union’s written statement marked 
Ext. 3 is a statement of the designation of the workers, period of service, 
and monthly wages. ‘fhie was admitted to be correct more or less. The 
Proprietors’ case is that the restaurant was started five years back. It has 


3154 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr ] 


ee ee ee 
still to fight its way, to an nssured position, The period of service recorded 
in Ext. 3 lends support to the Proprietors’ version that the restauraut 18 in 
existence for a period of five years. The boy Nasir had put in 5 years’ 
service. All the rest served for 3 years or ھ7‎ None of the employeeg 
had to their credit service exceeding five years. I am therefore yersuaded 
that the restaurant is in being for o span of five years. The রা has 
claimed that pay and allowances should be fixed with a minimum of Rs, 40 
for certain categories, Rs. 50 for some other categories and Rs. 55 to Rs. 6 
for the remaining categories of workers. The maximum as claimed ranges 
from Rs. 110 to Rs. 150. This will appear in Annexure C to the written 
statement. In my view ao business of this type would be ruined if pay and 
allowances are settled as suggested by the Union. The prosperity and even 
continued existence of such a business is extremely uncertain. One cannot 
predict that it will have a successful career or grow from strength to strength 
as years roll by. The wages paid in cash and kind do not make a poor show, 
According to the evidence of O.P.W. 1 all the employees used to be pro. 
vided with morning tea with haluah and purt, and at 10 a.m. with two 
pieces of rott, one plate of dal and a cup of tea. The mid-day meal supplied 
to them consisted of rice or atta and dal cooked with meat. At night they 
were supplied with 792 and vegetables. As per evidence of O.P.W. 1], 
the foodstuff supplied to the employees were worth Rs. 2 to Rs. 2-8 per 
diem. Over and above this they used to get 1 anna to “4 annas for pan 
and birt. The Proprietors in the written statement assessed the value of 
the meals at Rs. 50 per month. The total emoluments in cash and kind 
taken together are nothing to sneeze at. No evidence was adduced that the 
wages paid in other establishments of like nature are more favourable. J] 
am noi therefore impressed that the Tribunal should interfere to disturb the 
existing pay and allowance. 


The learned gentleman appearing to press the case of the employees 
suggested that the tiffin and meals may be discontinued and cash payment 
of Rs. 50 might be made to supplement the cash wages. The suggestion is 
quite fair. It is hence directed that those employees who are so inclined 
may receive Rs. 50 in cash in lieu of tiffin and meals. Application must 
be made in writing to the Proprietors within 15 days’ from the date of 
publication of the award in the Calcutta Gazette. 


Issue No. 2.—The hours of work as prescribed by section 10 of the Bengal 
Shops and Establishments Act, 1940, will be observed in this establishment. 


issue No. 3.—The holidays and leave will be enjoyed as provided in 
sections 9 und 12 of the Bengal Shops and Establishments Act. 


Issue No. 4.—The claim of the Union was that bonus should be made 
ayable at 12৫. and Pujah time. It is not the Union’s case that bonus 1s 
ed as a condition of service. As there is no contract for payment of bonus 
i the present claim is not for profit bonus, this claim must be turned 
own. 


issue No. 5.—For an establishment of this description no retiring benefits 
can be provided. 


Issue No, 6.—The Union’s case is that after the formation of the Union 
the Proprietors started a regime of persecution. Those employees who were 
the moving spirits were spotted and earmarked for victimisation. On the 
8th of December 1955, Usman and Yusuf were sudden} dismissed. 
According to paragraph 11 of the second written statement of 7 Dnion all 


Part 1] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 S155 


the femaining employees were dismissed on 10th December 1955. In course 
of hearing it appeared that a section of employees remained loyal and con- 
tinued working in the restaurant. It is not correct that all the employees 
were dismissed. It is quite clear that the Union indulged in exaggeration 
to some extent. As pointed out just now all the employees were not turned 
out. In his evidence before the Tribunal Md. Osman stated that he was 
threatened with assault by Lalaji. Nothing of the kind appears in the 
written statement. On the other hand, in paragraph 7, Mansoor is said 
to have been severely beaten by the cashier. Since the Union has departed 
in some measure from the truth, the case presented by 1t must be subjected 
to careful scrutiny. The case of the other party is that on the 4th of 
December, wages were paid and accepted by all the employees. From the 
next day 12 employees mentioned in the schedule to the order of reference, 
absented themselves from duty without notice. Srijut Kapoor put up a 
notice in the Notice Board re-calling them to join within three days but 
the deserters did not come back. One boy was appointed on the 7th of 
December and thereafter other appointments were made to fill up the 
vacancies caused by these people throwing up their job. On the other 
hand, the case of the employees is that they were dismissed on the 9th 
and 10th of December. The Proprietors’ case is that they had voluntarily 
relinquished their job. The suggestion made on behalf of the Union was 
that the Proprietors wanted to get rid of these members of the establishment 
who were engaged in carrying on agitation for better service conditions. 
Ii will appear that several of those employees who signed Ext. 1(b) are 
still in service. Among the persons alleged to have been dismissed are 
some who did not affix their signatures to the appeal forwarded to the 
Labour Commissioner. It is not hence correct that the wrath of the 
Proprietors had fallen upon the heads of the employees engaged in the 
agitation. The evidence 1s meagre but I am led to hold that the Proprie- 
tars’ case that the employees had suddenly quitted service reflects the 
correct picture. It was probably expected that by shock tactics the 
Proprietors could be brought down to their knees and the employees might 
get their demands granted. So many workers going out at a time, the 
management was likely to be seriously embarrassed. Probably the 
employees felt in that state of predicament the Proprietors would climb 
down and meet them at least half way but they had miscalculated. Consi- 
dering the circumstances and probabilities I have reached the conclusion 
that the employees mentioned in the schedule to the order of reference were 
not dismissd by the Proprietors but they had left of their own accord. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge. 
S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Strth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 2nd July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


3156 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Pant J 


ORDER 


No. 38296Dis. /D/'7L-22/56.—380th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 8893 Dis. ie 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 3537. 
Dis. ;D/7L-47/54, dated the 2181 July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130- 
Dis. /D/71.-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial مو‎ in 
the Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills men- 
tioned in the list attached with the said order, dated the.12th July 1964, 
read with the said addendum, dated the 2lst July 1954, and corrigendum, 
dated the 26th August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions 
and Federations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 4, 
were referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shn 
.للا‎ Banerji, District Judge (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri 
S. C. Mukherji, District Judge, as Member: 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made 7 Shri Sumaru Das, a workman of 
Bhuturia Jute Mills, P.O. Salkia, Howrah, before the said Tribunal 
against the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished the 
۱ہ‎ workman concerned in such dispute; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 834 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said gomplaint and submitted its award to the State 
Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Sumaru Das in connection with Covernment 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, orders Nos. 19881015.1 0171... 
48(A) /53, 2329Dis./D /7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D /3A-10/54, 377 
7L-47/54 and 4130Dis./D /7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, Gth May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 2150 July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respec- 
tively, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in 
West Bengal including Bhuturia Jute Mills and their workmen (case 
No. 372 of 55 under section 3378), 


BEFORE THE THIRD MAJOR JUTE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 
WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT ; 
Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Ketd.), Chairman. 
For the Complainant: Shri Kali Chakrabarty. 


For tht Jute Mull: Shri P. R. Mukherji instructed by Shri Kamaksha 
Guha. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
crder No, 1988Dis./D/7L-48(A) /53, dated 7th April 1954, order No. 2329/ 
Dis. /D/71.-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1954, order No. 3587Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 2186 July 
1954, and order No. 4180Dis/D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, 
referred, under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV 
of 1947), the industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills and their 


Part 1] THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3157 

লিলির 
4 

workmen regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribugal 


for adjudication. The award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding 
was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


یوب سوسھ ب جو 


On 01) November 1955 Sumaru Das, a workman of the Company, 
applied under section 383dA of the Industrial Disputes Act stating as 
follows : 


The petitioner presented himself in the Mills on 19th August 1956 for 
0812] duty and after some hours of work was called by the Manager himeelf 
i. the Mall office and was beaten severely there and was stopped from join- 
ing the work. Since then the opposite party Company has kept the peti- 
tioner out of work. The petitioner is an active member of the Bengal 
Chatkal Mazdoor Union and is a leader of the workmen of the Mill. The 
pelitioner, therefore, prays for an award directing the opposite party 
Company to reinstate him with full compensation for the period of forced 
unemployment. 


The Bhuturia Jute Mill, being the opposite party ‘Company, in its 
11162 statement, states as follows: 


The petition is not maintainable in law and fact inasmuch as the Com- 
pany already filed a petition under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act before the Tribunal on 18th October 1955. The facts relating to the 
misconduct of this workman have been stated in detail in the above petition. 
The workman has been in the employ of the above Jute Mill and his services 
were not at all satisfactory. This workman was working in A shift at the 
relevant time and as there was a shortage of roller winder, female workers 
werd recruited to work in the A shift, for which reason it was necessary in 
the interest of administration to transfer the applicant to B shift and the 
৪0101 order of transfer was verbally and in writing communicated to him by 
a letter, dated 6th June 1955. The workman refused to work in the B shift 
and kept away from the Mill from 8rd June 1955, but later on falsely 
represented to the Labour Commissioner that he had been discharged from 
the services of the Jute Mills. He was allowed to join on the recommenda- 
lion of the Labour Commissioner and the Manager excused him for his 
previous absence as also for refusal to work in the B shift. Thereafter this 
workman did not improve his conduct and was a disturbing element in the 
factory and as such, he had been warned on 23rd July 1965 and 29th Jul 
1955 for very slow production and bad workmanship. On 30th August 195 
this worker was found neglecting his work and was found raising subscrip- 
tion inside the Mills premises in course of which, he threatened some female 
workers and when questioned hy the overseer to stop raising subscription, 
he fared up and misbehaved with the supervisor and also threatened Janaki, 
another worker of the Mill. A charge-sheet wus framed against him and he 
offered his explanation denying the charge, whereupon the Management 
thought it necessary to hold an enquiry, for which two notices were issued 
ما‎ him by registered post with A/JI), but he refused to accept such notices. 
After due enquiry, the Management was convinced that this worker was in 
the habit of اس وی‎ other workers, negligent and insubordinate and the 
charges framed against him were proved. The Management decided that he 
should be dismissed from service, and as such an application was made 
before the Tribunal under section 33 of the কারন Disputes Act for 
permission to dismiss the man. The present petition made by the workman 
is clearly an after-thought and has been made as the Tribunal had become 
functus officio and was incompetent to decide any further issue and pass 
orderg under section 33 of the Act. The petition is not maintainable and 
the Tribunal would uphold the orders of suspension by the Management and 
reject this petition of the worker and pass an order of dismissal. 


3158 THE 04140701714 GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr] 


পপর ২৯৬৯ ৫৮৬এাাাউ 


()n the date of hearing on 16th J uly 1956, the parties filed a joint* peti- 
tion of compromise, a copy whereof appears as Appendix A to this award. 
Persued the terms of the compromise petition and it appears to me that they 
are reasonable and should be accepted. The compromise petition is accepted 
and I award accordingly. The compromise petition in Appendix A shall 
form a part of this award. 


M. 0. BANERJI, 


Chairman. 
The 13th July 1956. 


APPENDIX A. 
BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT : 
Suri M. 0. BANERJI, Retired District Judge. 
Ke: Industrial Dispute of Messrs. 
Bhuturia Jute Mills 
And 


In the matter of an application under 
section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. 


Sumaru Das ... Petitioner, 
Bhuturia Jute Mills, Salkia, Howrah 

.. Oppostte Party. 
The joint petition of the abovenamed 


Company and the employee above- 
named. 


MosT RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH : 
1. That the above industrial dispute was fixed for hearing today and 
the parties have come to terms as follows. 


2. That the above employee will stand retrenched and the Company will 


pay Rs. 144 (rupees one hundred and forty-four) only in full and final satis- 
faction of all claims and that the Company will pay the above sum within a 
week from this day. 


3. That the above case will be finally disposed of in above terms and 
an award be made and this petition do form a part of the award. 


For Bengal Chatkal Mazdoor Union. 
KALIDAS CHAKRABARTY. 

For the Worker. 

Dated the 16th July 1956. 


M. C. BANERJT, For the Company, 
Chairman. B. C. NANDY, 


Bhuturta Jute Mills. 
The 18th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MOKHERJEE, H. Secy. 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3159 


ORDER 


No. 8296Dis. /D/71-22/56.—30th July 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 8801(1, 
9A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its addendum No. 35387])is. / 
D/71-47/54, dated the 21st July 1954, and its corrigendum No. 4130Dis. / 
DP /71.-47'/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the Jute 
Textile Industry in West Bengal between the Jute Mills mentioned in the 
list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with the 
said addendum, dated the 2186 July 1954, and corrigendum, dated the 
261( August 1954, and their workmen represented by the Unions and 
Yederations mentioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were 
yeferred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerji, 
Jistrict Judge (Retired), as Chairman, and Shri ٥. C. Mukherji, District 
Judge, as Member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made س٣‎ Shri Sumaru Das, a workman of 
Bhuturia Jute Mill, P.O. Salkia, Howrah, before the said Tribunal against 
{he said Company alleging that the said Company had discharged the said 
vorkman concerned in such disputes; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
erated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State 
(Jovernment; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is _ pleased 
heteby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Sumaru Das in connection with (Government 
of West Bengal, Department of Labour, order No. 1988Drs./0/7L-~ 
48(A) /53, 2329Dis./D /7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D ep 3537 Dis. / D / 
7L-47 /54, and 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 
1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respec- 
tively, referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute Mills in 
West Bengal including Bhuturia Jute Mills and their workmen (case 
No. 165 of 1955 under section 33A). 


BEFORE THE JUTE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT: 
Surt M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retd.), Chairman. 
For the Complainant: Shri Kali Chakrabarty. 
For the Jute Mill: Shri P. R. Mukherji instructed by Shri Kamaksha 
Guha. 
AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by order 
No. 1988Dis./D/71-48(A)/538, dated Tth April 1954, order Nov ( 
11.-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, order No. 3393)Dis./D/SA-10/54, dat 
1210) July 1954, order No. 38587Dis. /D f'7L-47/54, dated 21st July 1954, and 
order No. 411)01)15. 11) ee dated 26th August 1954, referred, under 
sections T and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 


3160 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Part 1 


industrial dispute between 101 specified Jute Mills ond their workmen 
regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation... The award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was pub- 
lished in the Calcutta Gazette, dated Gth October 1955. 


On 12th July 1955 Sumaru Das, a workman of the Company, applied 
under section 934 of the Industrial Disputes Act as follows: 


On 28th April 1955 the petitioner sustained an injury rendering him 
incapable of work for a time. The petitioner went to join i duties with a 
fit certificate from the Medical Officer on 26th May 1955, but was refused 
work since then. The petitioner, therefore, prays for reinstatement with full 
compensation for the period of unemployment. 


The Bhuturia Jute Mills, being the Company opposite party, states in 
ita written statement as follows: 


The opposite party Company has no knowledge that on 28th October 
1954 the petitioner اٹ‎ injury or that he had been under the 8ہ‎ 
meut of a doctor, as alleged. It is not true that the petitioner went t join 
his duties with a fit certificate on 26th May 1955 and that he was not allowed 
to join on that date. The fact 1s that the worker absented himself from the 
factory without any reason and without any leave from November 1954. 
Thereafter he came up in the first week of July 1955 and preferred an 
industrial dispute before the Labour Commissioner, and the matter had 
been settled by an agreement, which will show that he reported himself for 
duty on 18th July 1945. The matter rested there and there was no further 
dispute between the parties. 


On the date of hearing on 16th July 1956, the petitioner filed an appli- 
cation stating that the dispute had been settled out of court, and that the 
petitioner did not desire to proceed with this application any further. The 
petitioner prayed that the application might be treated as withdrawn and 
not pressed and finally disposed of. This petition appears as Appendix A 
to this award. It is, therefore, awarded that the complaint under section 
383A of the Tndustrial Disputes Act stands withdrawn. 


M. C. 2۸171, 


The 18th July 1956. Chairman. 
APPENDIX A 
bFFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT : 


Sari M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Ketd.), 


Re: Industrial Dispute of Messrs. 
Bhuturia Jute Mills, (shusury, 
Howrah 

And 


In the matter of application under 
section 383A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act by 

Sumaru Das ... Petitioner, 


Bhuturia Jute Mills Ltd. 
Opposite Party. 


The petition of the abovenamed 
employee. 7 


[১011 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1958 3161 


MoM RESPECTFULLY SIIEWFTH : 

}. That the above industrial dispute has been settled outside the 
Tribunal, 

2. That the employee petitioner as such does not like to proceed with 
ae: application any further. 


9, That the petitioner hereby prays that the a হল may be treated 
as withdrawn and not pressed and finally dispose 

4. That an award may be made in above terms, this petition being made 
a part of the award. 


For Bengal Chatkal Mazdoor Union. 


KAT(DAS CHAKRAVARTY. 
For the Workman. 
For Messrs. Bhuturia Jute Mills Ltd. 


B. 0. NANDY, 
Dated Calcutta, the 16th July 1956. 


M. C. BANERJI, 


Chairman. 
The 18th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


1). 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 
\ No. 3301 Dis. 0116ا‎ —30th July 1956.—Whereas under the 

Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 601 
111+79186, dated the 23rd March 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Brahmachari Research Tustitute, 8513 Cornwallis Street, 
Calcutta-4, and their employees represented by Brahmachari Research 
Institute Karmachari Samity, C/o S. Bhattacharjee, 43 Manicktolla Main 
Road, Caleutta-11, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto, 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of 86 industrial dispute between Messrs. Brahmachari 
Research Institute, 82/3 Cornwallis Street, Calcutta-4, 8170 their 
employees represented by Brahmachari Research Institute Karmachari 
Samity, C/o 8. Bhattacharjee, 43 Manicktolla Main Road, Calcutta-11, 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Sunt G. P. MUKNERJEER, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal, 
Appearances : ۱ 
For the employees: Shri Suprabhat Mukherjee, Pleader. 
For the Company: Shri S. C. Sen, Advocate. 


3162 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr ] 


ES‏ وب سد ححم سح تحت te‏ س تمس گقققییجبہ ید ھحہسی سیت سوب موس مرج یس تج چہوں یج سے یو جس وی جیدیجہ جو ججہ تہ ستحدجہ جج رسب جامس انی مر سی نمس دم رجات چمں جن ےچ موب زجوتیچ سالجا سے 66ا 


By Government order No. "1265 / Dis. /D/111-39/56, dated 23rd Makeh 
1956, the uforesaid dispute has been referred to this Tribunal for 


adjudication regarding the matters mentioned in the schedule to the order 
of reference, 


৩ issues contained in the schedule to the order of reference stand as 
follows :—— 


(1) Whether 75 retrenched employees as per attached list are entitled 
to gratuity in addition to retrenchment benefits? 


(2) Whether the said employees are entitled to wages for the period of 
leave not availed of by them? 


AWARD 


The employees in question were employed in the Brahmachari Research 
Institute, but they were retrenched from 17th October 1954. This 
retrenchment was effected with the permission of the Hon’ble Jabour 
Appellate Tribunal. The said Tribunal rassed order in this respect on 
13th October 1954, because an application under section 22 of the 
Industrial JTnisputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act was made on 30th August 
1954 by the Company ا‎ it for such retrenchment. ‘The employees so 
retrenched; were given the retrenchment relief as provided in section 26F 
of the Industrial Disputes Act. It is the contention of these retrenched 
employees that in addition to the retrenchment relief as paid 
by the Comrany, they were entitled to get gratuity as per award of Shri A. 
Das Gupta made on 18th August 1952, and also the wages for the period of 
leave not availed of by them. But the Company refused to pay them such 
gratuity and wages. Hence this reference. 


The Company in reply stated that the workers concerned were not 
entitled to get gratuity as provided under the award of Shri A. Das 
Gupte over and above the . retrenchment compensation payable under 
section 25F of the Act, which was paid to them at the time of retrenchment. 
Regarding the wages in lieu of the Jeave not availed of, the Company 
wanted to say that the workers were not also entitled to get the same, in 
view of the leave rules as made by this Company. There was and 18 no 
provision under the Company to pay wages in lieu of leave not availed of. 
But still the Company out of generosity paid the workers at the time of 
retrenchment wages for the leave found due to their credit according to the 
Company’s record. The Qompany finally contended that the claim of the 
workers as put forward by the Union was, in the circumstances, flimsy 
and speculative, and should be dismissed. 


Issue No, 1.—Whether 75 retrenched employees as per attached list are 
entitled to gratuity in addition to retrenchment Uenefits?—There is no 
dispute or controversy between the parties that the JTabour Appellate 
Tribunal gave permission to the Company to retrench these 74 workers. 
Admittedly, the employees who were so retrenched, got retrenchment relief 
as provided in section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act. It may be 
stated in this connection that out of these 75 workmen mentioned in the 
list attached to the order of reference, two workmen were not actually 
retrenched, and they are Shri Sudhansu Rov and Shri Puran Bahadur 
[Serial Nos. (34) and (88), respectively, of the said list]. These two 
emplovees are still in service of the Company. This fact was also admitted 
on behalf of the Union at the time of hearing. Therefore, no question 
about payment of gratuity or wages for the period of leave not availed of 


PartI] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3163 


আনতে নিত (regina تب سے‎ SS | لب‎ 


can “nrise, so far as those two workers are ' concerned. As regards the 
other workers, the Company paid them retrenchment relief under 
section 25F of the Act. The টি of the Union is that these workers in 
addition to the retrenchment relief payable under section 25F of the Act 
are also entitled to get gratuity as provided under the award of Shri A. Das 
Gupta. It is a fact no doubt that in the award passed by Shri Das Gupta 
on 18th August 1952, a scheme for gratuity was made for the workers in 
cases of retrenchment or termination of service by the Company. The 
relevant extract regarding the gratuity scheme of this award 1s 141. 2. 
The gratuity scheme as made in that award for cases of retrenchment or 
terminution of service by the Company for any reason other than 


misconduct, or for cases of resignation with the consent of the Management, 
was as follows :— 


(a) On completion of 15 years’ service or over 15 days’ basic pay for 
each completed year of service up to a maximum of 15 months’ 
basic pay, 

(b) On completion of 10 years’ service, but less than 15 years’ service— 
10 days’ basic pay for each completed year of service. 


(c) On completion of 5 years’ service, but less than 10 years’ service— 
7 days’ basic pay for each completed year of service. 


(0) Before the completion of year service, no gratuity will be paid. 


(e) Persons discharged at any period of service for misconduct, no 
gratuity will be paid. 


(1) In case of death of an employee, his widow or children or other 
dependents will be granted gratuity on the above basis. 


Now the question is, whether the remaining 73 workers of the list are‏ ۔ 
eglitled to get gratuity as provided under the award of Shri A. Das Gupta,‏ 
in addition to retrenchment compensation paid to them by the Company‏ 
under section 25F of the Act. Having heard the learned representatives‏ 
on both sides, and on a perusal of Chapter V(A) of the Industrial Disputes‏ 


Act, which was inserted in the Act 43 of 1953, I am of the view that these: 


workera are not entitled to get gratuity as was provided in the award of 
Shri A. Das Gupta. The gratuity scheme as provided in that award was 
by way of compensation only for the workers, who were retrenched or whose 
xervices were terminated for any reason other than misconduct. Since 
that award was made, Chapter V(A) of the 17110810101 Disputes Act was 
introduced, and it was introduced to standardise the liability of the 
employers and the rights of the employees in respect of payment of lay-off 
und retrenchment relief. The whole object of Chapter V(A) dealing with 
lay-off and retrenchment is to standardise compensation to be paid on the 
terraination of the services of an employee, and not to leave it to various 
Industrial Tribunals awarding different compensations 01] different basis 
| vide case reported in 1955)1( ٠۔1۰3.‎ 371 at page 874). In this connection, 
the provisions as made in section 25J of Charter V(A) of the Act are 
important and relevant. Section 257 is as follows :— 


(i) The provisions of this Chapter shall have effect notwith- 
standing anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law 
including standing ordera made under the Jndustrial Employment 


(Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (XX of 1946): 


Provided that nothing contained in this Act shall have effect to 
derogate from any right which a workman had under the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948 (XT of 1948), or any notification or order issued 
thereunder or any award for the time being in. operation or’ any 
contract with the employer. 


3164 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Pant 1 


(11) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that 
nothing contained in this Chapter shall be deemed to affect the 
rovisions of any other law for the time being in force in any State, 
in so far as that law provides for the settlement of industria] disputes, 
but the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen, in so far as 
they relate to lay-off and retrenchment, shall be determined in 
accordance with the provisions of thts Chapter. 


I am mindful of the fact that the proviso of this section as quoted ahove 
protects the existing benefits, to which a workman 18 entitled to, on 
retrenchment, either under an award for the time being in operation, — or 
under any contract with the employer. But it must be remembered that 
the existing benefits must be higher than what is payable under section 
20F of the Act. This is clear from the words “Derogate from any right’’ 
as used in the proviso. The said words are significant, and manifestly 
mean some better rights already secured under an award or contract. The 
intention of the Legislature is not to pay both statutory compensation and 
gratuity otherwise payable according to the terms and conditions of service 
subsisting at the time of retrenchment. Furthermore, the gratuity scheme 
approved in the award of Shri Das Gupta provides for payment of an 
amount of 15 days’ basic pay for each completed year of service, and not 
15 days’ average pay as provided in section 25F of the Act. This is not 
all. That award provided 10 days’ basic pay for each completed year of 
service in case of workers who had completed Jess than 15 years’ service, 
and 7 days’ basic pay for each completed year of service for workers whose 
services were less than 10 years. This falls short of what is provided in 
section 251" of the Act. So, in any view, it cannot be said that the benefits 
as provided in the gratuity scheme of that award, were higher than what 
is payable under section 24F of the Act. My view is that the gratuity 
scheme as provided in the award of Shri A. Das Gupta stands superseded 
by the legislative enactment, in which provision for relief in cases of lay-off 
and retrenchment has been made. [n the face of this Statutory 111+ 
the workmen concerned in the present case, are not entitled to any 
gratuity under the previous award. They are entitled only to retrench- 
ment relief as provided in section 25F of the Industrial Disputes 401. 
The Company says that the payment of such retrenchment compensation, 
In accordance with section 25F of the Act, has already been made to these 
workers. This 1s not disputed in the present case. That being so, these 
retrenched employees, barring Shri Sudhansu Roy and Shri Puran Bahadur 
[serial Nos. (34) and (38) respectively, of the list attached to the order of 
reference] who are still in service of the Company, are not entitled to any 
gratuity under the award, over and above the compensation received by 
them under the provision of section 25F of the Act. This isaue is answered 
accordingly. 


Issue’ No. 2.—Whether the said employees are entitled to wages for the 
perind of leave not avatled of by them?—Regarding the workers Shri 
Sudhansu Roy and Shri Puran Bahadur [serial Nos. (94) and (98), 
respectively, of the list attached to the order of reference], the question of 
their getting wages for the period of leave not availed of, does not arise, as 
they are sti]] in service of the Company. Regarding the remaining 
73 employees of the list, the Tribunal is of the view that they are not 
entitled to get anv wages for the period of leave not availed of by them. 
From the materials placed before the Tribunal, it appears that the 
privilege leave allowed to the employees of this Company was more lavish 
and liberal than what was allowed under the Factories Act. The Company 
allowed such privilege leave all along to its workers. In the Standing 


Parr 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3165 


نے 


Order which was certified on 4th January’1952, it has been provided 
inter alia that holidays with pay will be allowed as provided for in the 
current Factories Act, and other holidays in accordance with customary 
usage. In the said Standing Orders, nowhere it is to be found that any 
provision was made to pay wages to the employees, in lieu of leave not 
availed of. It could not be shown or proved on behalf of the Union that 
the employees of this concern got any wages for the leave not availed of. 
No mention is also made that the employees will get wages for the leave 
not availed of in the document—a _ letter, dated 13th December 1951, 
written by the Works Manager to the Secretary, Brahmachari Research 
Institute Karmachari Samity (Ext. 3), on which reliance was placed on 
behalf of the Union. All that is said in that document 1s that leave not 
availed of will be credited to the leave account of the employee concerned. 
Under the circumstances, the Tribunal comes to the conclusion that these 
19. 67719105968 are not entitled to wages for the period of leave not availed 
of by them. In this connection, it may be stated that another fact has 
come out from the evidence in the instant case, and in my opinion it 
completely demolishes the claim of the workers on this score. It is the 
Company’s contention that at the time of retrenchment, it paid the wages 
for leave found due to the credit of the workmen according to the 
Company's record, though strictly speaking they were 20% 
entitled to the same. Learned advocate for the Company has 
argued that the Company paid such wages, in lieu of leave 
to the workers out of generosity. The Company has produced a 70০0 
(Ext. I), from which it appears that almost all the workers retrenched, 
were given leave pay due, which means wages for the leave due to their 
credit, but not availed of. Only 7/8 such retrenched workers were not 
given leave pay due, and it is presumably because that they fully availed 
af the leave leaving nothing behind to their credit. No material was 
moduced before the Tribunal by the Union to show that these workers 
did not fully avail of their leave. In the result, the Tribunal holds that 
the claim of the workers for wages for the leave not availed of, is unten- 
able in any view of the matter. This issue is therefore answered in the 
negative, 


This is the award of the Tribunal. 
PDictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
17-7-56. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


The 1767, July 1956. 


Inst of Retrenched Employees 


(1) Shri Ajit Kumar Banerjee (1). 
(2) Shri Indra Narayan Nandi. 
(3) Shri Rabi Kanta Acharya. 

(4) Shri Kamalesh Ch. Sannyal. 
(5) Shri Bamapada Ghosh. 

(6) Shri Rabindra Nath Banerjee. 
(7) Shri Pramatha Bh. Mitra. 

(8) Shri Biswanath Paul. 


3166 


(9) Shri 
(10) Shi 
(11) Shri 
(12) Shri 
(13) Shri 
(14) Shri 
(15) Shri 
(16) Shri 
(17) Shri 
(18) Shri 
(19) Shri 
(20) Shri 
(21) Shri 
(22) Shri 
(23) Shr 
(24) Shri 
(25) Shri 
(26) Shri 
(27) Shri 
(28) Shri 
(29) Shri 
(30) Shri 
(31) Shri 
(32) Shni 
(33) Shri 
(34) Shri 
(35) Shri 
(36) Shri 
(387) Shri 
(38) Shri 
(39) Shri 
(40) Shri 
(41) Shri 
(42) Shri 
(43) Shri 
(44) Shri 
(45) Shri 
(46) Shri 
(47) Shri 
(48) Shri 
(49) Shri 
(50) Shri 
(51) Shri 
(52) Shri 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 
ই an چس‎ ee re ee ree) 


Shyamapada Ganguly. 


Sudhir Kumar Chowdhury (1), 


Manindra Nath Biswas. 
Purna Ch. Sye. 
Nalinakshya Dey. 

Ajit Kumar Banerjee (2). 
Benoy Kumar Dutta. 
Tararada Bhadury. 
Murari Mohan Chatterjee, 
Kartick Ch. Sarkar. 
Monoranjan Bhattacharjee, 
Sridhar Barik. 

Bansidhar Rautrai. 
Jatindra Panda. 

Mukunda Swain, 
Gadadhar Barik, 

Bhramar Naik (1). 
Baikuntha 1098. 

Madan Mohan Das. 
Nityananda Maity. 
Narendra Behara. 
Dibakar Swain. 
Amarendra Nath Dey. 
Chittaranjan Bhattacharjee, 
Nilmadhab Guin. 
Sudhansu Roy. 

Iswar Baral. 

Shibnath Chatterjee. 
Indra Mani Swain. 
Puran Bahadur, 
Ramkrishna Roy, 
Maheswar Dutta, 
Nripendra K. Rakshit. 
Sitangsu S. Bhattacharjee. 
Durgapada Bose. 

Sakti Bh. Bhattacharjee. 
Amar Kumar Ganguly. 
Biswanath Mukherjee. 
Rabindra Nath Mitra. 
Phani Bh. Ghosh. 
Nandadulal Banerjee. 
Nirmal Ch. Paul. 
Parbati Kr, Bhattacharjee, 
Bimal Bhusan Banerjee. 


PartI] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1986 3167 


(53) Shri Sushil Kumar Bhattacharjee. 
(64) Shri Sudhir K,. Chowdhury (2), 
(655) Shri Prafulla K. Mukherjee, 
(56) Shri Nabakumar Daas, 

(57) Shri Krishna Maharana. 

(98) Shri Chintamani Barik, 

(59) Shri Uday Mahapatra. 

(60) Shri Banamali Patra. 

(61) Shri Keshab Naik, 

(62) Shri Bimal Naik. 

(63) Shri Prabhakar Naik. 

(64) Shri Kanailal Paul, 

(65) Shri Bhramar Naik (2). 

(66) Shri Surendra Sau. 

(67) Shri Lingaraj Swain. 

(68) Shri Ramkanai Das, 

(69) Shri Sukumar Biswas. 

(70) Shri Surya Narain Roy. 

(1) Shri Jyotsna Bikash Chowdhury. 
(72) Shri Achutananda Swain. 

(73) Shri Maheswar Swain. 

(74) Shri Rambilas Singh. 


(75) Shri Paramananda Biswal. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, ৮, Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 38614Dis./D/11L-264/55.—10th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 3563Dis. / D/ 
11L-264/55, dated the 4th August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Metro Theatre Calcutta, Ltd., No. 5, Chowringhee Road, Calcutta- 
18, and their employees represented by the Metro Cinema Employees’ Union, 
9 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta, regarding the matters specified in the 
schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial 
Tnbunal ; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, jn pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the Governor is pleased here- 
by to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


3168 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Part 1 


aad 


“ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Mossrs. Metro 
Theatre, Calcutta, Ltd., No. 5 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-13, and 
their employees represented by the Metro Cinema Employees’ Union, 
5 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta (case No. ۷۱۱۱۰238 of 1955). 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA 


PRESENT: 
Suri SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sivth Industrial Tribunal 


Appearances ۰ 


For Messrs. Metro Theatre Calcutta Ltd.: Shri ১, K Mullick (Jr.) of 
Messrs. Sandersons & Morgans, Solicitors. 


For Metro Cinema Employees’ Union: Shri ১, K. Acharjee, Bar-at-law, 
assisted by Shri Suprobhat Mukherjee. 


Demand for bonus for the year 1953-54 submitted by the employees of 
the Metro Theatre Calcutta, Limited, gave rise to this reference made b 
the Government of West Bengal by order No. d63Dis. /D/11L-264/56, 
dated Calcutta, the 4th August 1955. 


The issue referred for adjudication is as follows :— 


Are the employees entitled to any bonus for the financial year 1963-54? 
If so, what amount? 


The case as made out by the Union in the written statement is that 
there is an established practice in the cinema trade of this State for payment. 
of bonus in every financial year. There is also a practice prevailing in 
this particular Company in conformity with which bonus had been paid 
regularly year after year up to 1952-53, though at different rates. In 
the year under reference the Company did not make any payment as the 
election of Professor Nirmal Bhattacherjee as President and that of Srijut 
Haripada Chatterjee as Secretary of the Union was not to their hking. The 
Union failed to bring the management round to a reasonable frame of mind 
and had therefore to move the authorities of the Labour Department for 
redress of the grievance. Claim has been laid for bonus at the rate of 8 
(eight) weeks’ total emoluments. 


The Company resisted the claim and alleged in the written statement 
that there was no established practice in the trade regarding payment of 
bonus nor was any such practice in existence, so far as the Company is 
concerned. JJuring years of prosperity the Company made payment of 
bonus. _In the years 1951, 1952 and 1953 the Company had trade reverses 
and did not make any payment of bonus. But on repeated representations 
made by the employees certain ez gratia payments at different rates had 
been made in those three years purely as a gesture of goodwill. In 1954, 
the losses rose to a dizzy height and hence the Company was unable to 
make even ex gratia payment as in the preceding three years. Regarding 
the allegation that the election of Professor Nirmal Bhattacherjee and 
Shrijut Haripada Chatterjee had caused annoyance or irritation to the 
management, the Company has given a categorical denial. 


The basis of the claim has been stated in paragraph 2 of the Union 
written statement. According to the Wnion there is an established prac- 
tice in the cinema trade for payment of bonus. Secondly, this particular 


lant 1| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 3161) 


نیس یں مسا ہیں 


وو সরল‏ ںہ 
کے سر شس جچھ میں ہج بی جش ‏ ۶ر شس SEP‏ ج ں۔ ‏ شش جب شش شض شش شس سے چ وش OPEN‏ ہے 


a প্রহার বানি 


উনি 


تع 

Company has been following a practice of ity) own in the same manner. 
Plainly speaking this is not u case for bonus to be paid out of surplus 
profits, nor is this strictly speaking a case of a right to recover bonus as 
wu condition of service arising trom implied agreement. Meported cases 
dealing with cases for aunual bonus on the footing that the right was 
rooted in the conditions of service have been placed in course of argument. 
سا‎ my view those cases are inappropriate having regard to the case made 
out in paragraph 2 of the written statement. 


There is no evidence that a practice or convention hus grown up in the 
cinema trade which is binding on everybody engaged in this industry that 
bonus must be paid to the employees year by year. Leference was made io 
the practice followed by members of the Bengal Motion Pictures Associa- 
tion. ‘The witness appeariag tor the Metro Cinema deposed that all mem- 
bers of the Association did not pay bonus every year. The Elite Cinema, 
according to witness, never puid any bonus to its employees. The Union 
cannot in the circumstances rest its claim for bonus on practice prevailing in 
the industry. 


Admittedly the Company was floated in 1935. Bonus was being paid, 
wecording to P, W. 1, since 1948. Payment of bonus was made at varyiny 
rates up to 1958. The evidence of O.P.W. 1 is that bonus was paid up to 
1950. Thereafter the Company suffered losses. Ea gratia payments were 
made in the years 1951, 1952 and 19538, on representations made by the 
employees. These were ex gratia payments calculated to maintain cordial 
relations with the employees, To use the language of the witness, these 
were eagratia payments made os a gesture of goodwill. Ext. A is a docu- 
ment signed by the President, Secretary and members of the Union. The 
employees agreed to accept four weeks’ basic salary by way of ex gratia 
payment in full and final settlement of their claim for bonus in the year 
ending 3let August 1962. Ext. A(2) is the letter addressed by the 
Managing Director to the President of the Union intimating that the 
authorities at the Head Office in New York had accepted the recommenda- 
tion by the local office for er-gratia payment by way of gesture of poodwill. 
1556. 1 1) is a document by which the employees agreed to accept ez gratia 
payment for the year ending 915 August 1953. Ext. B series are the 
receipts granted by the employees in which this has been described as 
‘er gratia bonus.”’ These documents prove conclusively that the Company 
was not willing to concede the existence of any right in the employees to 
receive bonus in those years. They decided however to make some payment 
ما‎ keep them contented and the employees accepted the same without 
protest. (mn behalf of the Union learned Counsel cited a case reported 1p 
1954, 1..A.C., page 18. In that case claim was pressed on the footing that 
payment of annual bonus was a condition of service founded on 40 
agreement. I have already observed that in view of the pleadings this 
aspect of the case does not fall for consideration. Still the learned Counsel 
having relied on this case T may make my observation thereon. In the case 
cited, bonus had all along been paid since 1945 although the Company had 
incurred losses in all those vears excepting one year when the profits earned 
were negligible. According to their Lordships, the conduct of the Com- 
puny to a certain extent excluded the element of bounty. Although the 
evidence was not very strong an agreement to pay bonus irrespective of 
profits could. in their JT.ordships’ view. he implied. In the present case 
clement of bounty haa not been excluded, for, in express terms the Company 
yave the employees to understand that this was nothing better than er 
gratia payment. The employees accepted the payment with the string thus 
attached. They cannot therefore turn round and say that payment in years 
of loss excludes the element of bounty 


6 


9 THE CALCUTTA )۶۸/۸ 11'٢۲٢, AUGUST 16, 1056 {Part | 

1116 ease set up by the Cmion ip that a practice had grown up in terms 
uf which bonus was being paid yeat utter year. Lf at is treated simply as 
a practice there is néthidg to prevent ‘the Company from setting a period io 
wound withdrawing the concession. A practice of thig nature cannot be 
treated as binding forever or of perpetual. effeet. Treated a ra More 
ftherally the case may be considvred to be one of a customary right. Tho 
low as adiministéred in courts of vivil Jurisdiction recognises customary 
rivits but in order to crystalise into a right u castom must be immemorial, 
reasonable, and certain and further the enjoyment must have been as of 
rivht and neither by violence nor by stealth nor by Jeave granted (86 )',1 
page 20). As in this case payment was made as a gesture of goodwill avd 
waa described as er gratia payment it is not possible to affirm that the 
employees had received bonus during these years as of right. Payments by 
agreement in the terms referred to is negation of the important element that 
ihe enjoyment must have been as of right. Secondly, a right to ripen into 
« customary right must be arment. That element is-also absent. In 
these circumstances the Tribunal cannot hold that the employees have 
xequired any right to receive bonus as claimed. The Company had the 
option to grant their prayer or to refuse it. It is hence awarded that the 
employees are not entitled to any bonus for 1953-54 as of right. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
S. SENGUPTA, S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge. Judge, Sirth Industrial Tribunal 
The 25th Jal, 195) 


By order of the Governor, 


D. 5. P. MUKHERJEK, Jt. Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


0 (90211 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


PART IA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general informatien. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 


republished. 
IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF INDIA, 
CALCUTTA 
Appeal No. Cal.-101 of 1955 
Matin Burn Indian Employee’s Union, Calcutta ... Appellant, 
- versus 
Messrs. Martin Burn 1460. and 14 others oe ... Respondent. 


in the matter of an appeal against the award of Shri C. Palit, Judge, 
industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, made on 4th February 1955 in respect 
of an industrial dispute between the above parties. 


Dated the 17th April 1956 


PRESENT: 


Suri V. N. DIKSHITULU, Prestdent. 
ও E. KRISHNAMURTHY, Member. 


Appearances : 


For the appellant: Shri S. K. Acharya, Bar.-at-Law, with Shri D. L. Sen 
Gupta, Advocate. 


For the respondent: Shri K. B. Bose, Bar.-at-Iaw, with Shri K. L. 
Chatterjee of Orr Dignam & Co., Calcutta. 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry: Engineering. 


DECISION 


This appeal is preferred against the decision and award of the Fifth 
Industrial Tribunal. West Bengal, dated 4th February 1955, in a reference 
between Messrs. Martin Burn J.td., and all the associated companies of 
which Messrs. Martin Burn Ltd., are the Managing Agents, and their 
workmen represented by Martin Burn Indian Employees’ Unicon. 


2. The matters in dispute that were referred for adjudication ٠ہ‎ the 

Tribunal as contained in the schedule to the order of reference are as 
, follows ১ 

(1) Revisions of existing grades. 

(2) Tiffin. 

(3) Extent of medical aid. 

(4) Security of service. 

(5) Gratuity over and above Provident Fund. 


This appeal has been preferred by the Union against the award of the 
lower Tribunal. 


318 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr IA 
তারা: a I I A پت ےت م0 کت سے‎ 


¢ 
3. In the course of arguments Shri Acharya stated before us, that he 
was not pressing the appeal so fay us the decision in respect of item No. (4) 
‘Security of service’? was concerned. The appeal has been argued in 
respect of the other matters in dispute. 


4. In the first place we shall take up the question of revision of exist- 
ing scales of pay for the clerical staff. The existing grades and rates of 
pay are set out in paragraph 4 of the award of the lower Tribunal. These 
grades are those laid down in the award of the Mercantile Tribunal, 
published in the Calcutta Gazette of 25th August 1949. The learned Judge 
of the lower Tribunal has held, that there is no case made out for revision 
of the existing scales in the manner contained in the Union’s statement, 
that the award of the Mercantile Tribunal is not liable to be disturbed in 
@ piecemeal manner, and that if there is any need for revision that should 
be done in a collective manner by another Major Tribunal. In the award 
of the Mercantile Tribunal, there are four grades, viz., A, B, C and D. 
Shri Acharya for the Union does not seek any revision so far as Grade A 
and Special Grade are concerned. He has confined his arguments 69 
Grades B, C and D. The learned Tribunal has awarded as below :— 


Grade D—Rs. 70—3—100—E.B.—4—140 (20 years.) 
Grades B and C—Ks. 70—4—110—E.B.—7—180. 


5. The first contention raised on behalf of the Union by Shri Acharya 
is, that the learned Tribunal is wrong in holding that the scales cannot be 
revised so far as this particular company is concerned, and that any revi- 
sions must be made in a collective manner by another Major Tribunal, 11 
is urged before us, that the scales as fixed by the Mercantile Tribunal have 
been revised in the case of other companies even without another Mercantile 
Tribunal being constituted to go into the question of grades of pay. Strong 
exception has been taken to the observation of the learned Tribunal which 
are as follows: ‘‘Even the wives of workmen do not sit idle. Besides, 
these workmen, working in-one province and having their native place in 
another, do generally hhave agricultural income. That implements the 
earnings obtained by serving in concerns here’’. Even granting that we 
ure not in agreement with these observations, still it can be, by no means 
be contended that the scales as fixed in the Mercantile award need revision 
in the present circumstances. That award was published in August 1949. 
In the Caltex case (1952 LAC, p. 402) the starting wage of a clerk was 
fixed at about Rs. 80. Shri Acharya has contended that in any case the 
starting salary must be raised from Rs. 70 to Rs. 80. 


6. It is well settled that fairness to workers requires that rewards for 
similar work be equal, and fairness to employers requires that cost of 
production be equal for similar kind of work. In other words, the wage 
should be such as amounts to average payment for tasks of equal difficulty 
and disagreeableness. ‘lhe argument on behalf of the workmen, that the 
capacity of Messrs. Martin Burn, Ltd., to pay wages demanded is not denied 
and therefore the scales of pay as মাহি by the Union should be adopted, 
does not commend itself to us. Messrs. Martin Burn, Ltd., are Managing 
Agents of a number of firms. It can by no means be said on the material 
on record that all the companies of which Martin Burn are Managing 
Agents have equal or identical paying capacity. It is argued on behalf 
of the Management that there are certain companies whose economic condi- 
tion is much inferior to that of other companies. There is no valid 
reasons to disturb the scales of pay as laid down in the award of the 
Mercantile Tribunal. We cannot also ignore the repercussions which may 
arise in respect of other companies governed by the Mercantile Tribunal 
award, if-the scales of pay laid down in the award of that Tribunal are 
revised in an upward direction in the manner claimed by the Union. 
Moreover as observed by the learned Tribunal, the Mercantile Tribunal 
and Bengal Chamber of Commerce have provided for trore handsome 
dearness allowance based on a sliding scale which neutralizes the deficit 
caused by the high cost of living to a great extent. Under the Bengal 
Chamber of Commerce scale 115 per cent. or thereabout is the dearness 
allowance given on the first Rs. 100 of the salary. The total wages and 
dearness allowance that are provided for as a result of the Mercantile 
Tribunal award, are fair and reasonable and no circumstances have been 
established on the facts of this case to have the scales of pay revised in an 
wpward direction. We must also not lose sight of the consumer, It is 
well recognised that a scheme of wages, is meant to subsist for some time, 
and such arrangements for scales and grades of pay are long-term affairs 
which cannot be interfered with except on proof of change of circumstances, 
vide Army and Navy Stores, 1851 I LJ, p. 51, and Union Drug Co., and 
their workmen 1954 I LLJ, p. 766. On the materials on record we are not 
satisfied that there is proof of such a change of conditious and circumstances 
as to compel revision of the scales of pay as demanded by the Union. 


7. Shri Acharya has argued that in any event the starting salary 
must be fixed at Rs. 80 as the lowest in the grade. Reliance is placed on 
the decision in Caltex case referred to above. We are not in agreement 
with this contention. The decision in Caltex case 1s distinguishable. That 
related to an oil company whose resources are vast and whose profits are 
generally undisclosed. That cannot serve as a model for raising the 
minimum to Rs. 80. Moreover we cannot lose sight of the argument ot 


Part IA] 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


919 


+. 


Shri Bose, that 7خ‎ must make note of the New Companies Act which has 
1 


become law, that 
direction has been conwiderably restricted, that the expenses are multiply- 
ing, and that this is hardly a propitious time for increasing the scales or 
revising them jn the manner stated on behalf of the Union. It is also 
urged, that each of the associated companies of Martin Burn are not 01 
the same economic level, that for example the firm of Robert Hudson 18 
a small concern and cannot compare with Martin Burn Ltd., and that the 
wage structure that should be fixed must be consistent with the financial 
stability of the weaker units. It is further contended that: a downward 
tendency is noticeable in the matter of prices, and that it would be anomalous 
to raise the scales of pay at the present moment. On a consideration of 
all circumstances we are of opinion that no circumstances have been 
estnblished for acceding to the contention of the Union for a general 
revision of the scales of pay or for raising the starting salary to Rs. 80 in 
the vase of clerks. We may also notice the fact, that in Karam Chand 
Thapar's case 1953 LAC, p. 152, the starting salary was fixed at Res. 70 
only. We find no valid reason to raise the minimum to more than Rs. 70 
in the case of clerks. 


8. In the course of arguments Shri Acharya has contended that 
stenographers at least must start in any case at Rs. 110 and go up to Rs. 180 
the maximum of the grade. ‘lo this Shri Bose has no objection. 


9, Again Shri Acharya has drawn our attention to the case of 
Comptometer operators. It is argued that they should be given a starting 
salary of Rs. 78 and not at Ks. 70. Shri Bose has accepted this contention, 
and has agreed that the grades in their case may be from Rs. 78 to Rs. 140. 
But he urges that they cannot be placed on the same footing as steno- 
graphers. We agree with this view, but we fix the maximum of the grade 
at Rs. 142, annual increments being Rs. 4. 


10. However, objection is taken to the grades as fixed by the lower 
Tribunal. It 1s argued by Shri Acharya that there is no need for Grade 
D, that it may be abolished, and that grades B and C should be amaft- 
gomated. It is also urged that the learned Tribunal by introducing an 
efficiency bar, has interfered with the scales as laid down by the Mercantile 
Tribunal. It is pointed out before us that the scales as laid down by the 
lower Tribunal are even less advantageous than those fixed by the 
Mercantile Tribunal. We notice that there is no provision for efficiency 
bar in the scales of pay laid down by the Mercantile Tribunal. We do not 
consider that the grades and scales as laid down by the lower Tribunal 
with efficiency bar meet the needs of the case and in fact they operate to 
the prejudice of the workmen. We hold that there is no need for the 
existence of a separate Grade D. In the Mercantile Tribunal award the 
scale of pay for Grade D is Rs. 7O—3—130, and for Grade C it is 
Rs. 70-4184 In our opinion there is no need for the existence of two 
separate grades with the same starting salary and with a maximum of the 
grade with a difference of only Rs. 4. We are in agreement with Shri 
Acharya’s contention that Grade D should be abolished and ‘that B and ( 
should be amalgamated. We consider the following scales of pay will 
meet the ends of justice, viz., Rs. 70—4—138—7—180. We find on issue 
No. 1 that 03209 D should be abolished, Grades B and C should be amal- 
gamated, and that the scales and grades of pay should be as mentioned 
above. 


11. The next question is with reference to sub-staff. Even with 
reference to the question of wages and scales of pay of sub-staff, we are not 
prepared to hold that any revision is called for. The same considerations 
which apply in the case of the clerical staff alao apply here. We find that 
no change of circumstances has been established as to warrant interference 
with the scales of pay fixed for the sub-staff in the Mercantile ‘Tribunal 
award, 

12, Our finding on this question is that the grades and scales of pay for 
the clerical staff shall be as follows سے‎ 


Special Grade—As in the Mercantile Tribunal award. 
۔‎ Grade A—As in the Mercantile Tribunal award. 
Grade B—Rs. 70—4—138—7—~180. 
Stenographers—Rs, 110—4—180. 

Comptometer operators—Rs. 78—4—142. 


18. So far as sub-staff are concerned the same rates as fixed in the 
Mercantile Tribunal award shall prevail. 

14. The second question is with reference to ‘‘tiffin allowunce’’. The 
contention on behalf of the Union is that tiffin allowance of Re. 1 per day 
per head should he given. Reference has been made in this connection to 
the letter Ext. 1, dated 20th January 1948, There 1s a demand that the 
meagre allowance of Rs. 6 is inadequate and that the allowance should be 
raised to at least Rs. 15. Ext. 2 is the letter, dated 18th December 1947, 
by the management to the Secretary wherein it was said that the Company 
was prepared to grant cash payment of Rs, 6 per mensem to each clerk for 
the purpose as: from Ist Januury 1948 and that for non-attendance on any 
day as. 4 per day would be deducted. 


erein the scope of Managing Agencies in almost every’ 


320 


THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr IA 


তত 


15. The contention of Shri Acharya is, that a gens of companies 
have been granting 00100) allowance, and that therefere such’ allowance should 
be granted as demanded by the Urfion. We are not prepared to agree. 
In the first place the question of tiffin allowance is not one of the appealable 
items under section 7(1)(b) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate 
Tribunal) Act. Secondly, the learned Judge has exercised his discretion 
in the matter and has found that there is no case made out for grant of 
tiffin allowance. We do not see any ground for differing from the said 
conclusion. The.learned Judge has observed that the Company has started 
a canteen also. We find that there is no case made out for the grant of 
tiffin allowance in the manner claimed on behalf of the Union; but the 
companies will continue to pay whatever tiffin allowance, if any, they have 
been paying till now, and our finding as above will not affect any existing 
arrangements about the tiffin. 


16. The next question is about medical assistance. The decision in 
Karam Chand Thapar case (1958 LAC, p. 162) lays down the manner in 
which provision should be made in the matter of medical assistance. ‘The 
arrangements are set out in pages 160 and 161 of the said decision. The 
directions given in the award of the lower Tribunal are substantially in 
accord with the said arrangements. We confirm the award of the learned 
Judge on this question. 


17. Issue No. (5):—The last question is with reference ہا‎ retiral 
benefit. The argument on behalf of the workmen is, that they should be 
given gratuity in the manner claimed in addition to Provident Fund. The 
learned Tribunal has rejected the claim for gratuity. We are in agreement 
with the said decision. It is in accordance with the decision of the 
Mercantile Tribunal and also another award referred to in the judgment of 
the lower Tribunal. It 1s well recognised, that the question of gratuity 
in addition to Provident Fund, depends upon the financial condition of the 
Company. We are not prepared to hold that such circumstances have been 
established in the facts of this case as to compel the conclusions that the 
workmen are entitled to gratuity in addition to Provident Fund, so far us 
Martin Burn and other associated companies of which they are Managing 
Agents are concerned. This finding however will not operate to the 
prejudice of any existing arrangements, if any, in any Company where 
boii gratuity and Provident Fund benefits are in existence. 


18. In the result the appeal is allowed in part and for the award of the 
lower Tribunal in the matter of grades and scales of pay we substitute the 
following grades and scales of pay so far as clerical staff is concerned, 


V1Z.— 
Special grade—As in the Mercantile Tribunal award and in the award 
of the lower Tribunal. 


Grade A—As in the Mercantile Tribunal award and in the award of the 
lower 11177001091, 


Grade B—Rs. 70—4—1388—7—180. 
Stenographers—Rs. 110—4—138—7—180. 
Comptometer operators—Rs. 78—4—142. 

So far as the sub-staff is concerned, the grades shall be the same as 
awarded by the lower Tribunal in the Mercantile Tribunal award. With 
reference to the fitting in of the scales the order passed by the lower 
Tribunal is confirmed. Medical assistance shall be provided as in paragraph 


16. In all other respects the order of the lower Tribunal is confirmed and 
the appeal is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs, 


V. N. DIKSHITULU, President. 
E. KRISHNAMURTHY, Member. 


COVERNMENT OF HYDERABAD 


Home Department, Hyderabad 


NOTIFICATION 


No. SPL/R/159/PUB/56.—24th July 1956.— 
Whereas the Rajpraumukh of Hyderabad 1s 
satisfied that the Urdu Book “Mirajul Momineen”’ 
written by Hazrat Moulana Siddiq Hussain and 
published by Jamiat-e-Mujahidden, Deendar 
Association, Karachi,. contains matter which 


promotes feelings of enmity and hatred between 
different classes of citizens of India, the publica- 
tion of which is punishable under section 153A of 
the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Act XLV of 1860); 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 99A of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the Rajpramukh 
hereby declares every copy, reprint, extract or 
translation of the said book to be forfeited 10 
Government. 


B. A. KULKARNI, Dy. Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA 


RESULTS OF THE B.A. AND 8.86. COMPART- 
MENTAL EXAMINATIONS, 1955. 


the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 26th November, 1955. 


I. The undermentioned candidates who appeared at 
the B.A. (Compartmental) Examination, held in Septem- 
her, 1955, im one subject only under Section 40 (Compart- 
mental Rules), Chapter XXXII(B.A.) of the University 
Regulations and passed in that subject are now declared 
to have passed the B.A. Examination:— 


AGARTALA MAHARAJA BIR BIKRAM COLLEGE. 
Roll Agar. Comp. F. 
1 Arunika Datta. 


ASANSOL COLLEGE. 
Rott Cal. Comp. 
99 Subodhkumar Acharyya. 


ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roli Cal. Comp. 


63 Sachindrachandra De. 
b4 Nikhil Sinha. 

65 Md. Rahul Amin. 

66 ‘Kansari Haldar. 

G7 Kumarasamy Ganesan, 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


22 Rekha Kar, 1 (Regn. No. 2947 of 1951-52). 
24 Sahana Mukhopadhyay. 

25 Rekha Kar, IT (Regn. No. 1133 of 1952-53). 
27 Krishna Sengupta. 

30 Anima Nath. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. FN, 
? Shakuntala Jain. 


BANGABAS! COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


22 Matilal Magniram Bhandari. 

23 Santoshkumar Bhattacharyya. 
Biswanath Chakrabarti, 

25 Sunilkumar Hasu. 

23 Amalendu Chattopadhyay. 

27 Satyendranath Mukhopadhyay. 

28 Sudhindranath Sen. 

29 Kumallochan Chattopadhyay. 

3) Susilkumar Bhattacharyya. 

32 Nirmalkumar Bhattacharyya. 

4 Kamalaranjan Mukhopadhyay, 

30 Debipada re ee 

36 Amitabha Sinha. 

31 Badalkrishnu Chaudhuri. 

39° Niharkumar Nath, 

41 Nitaichand Basu. 

45 Abanimohan Nath. 


Orders by 


اس 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, 8۸۸۴۸8۸8۱ COLLEGE. 
Rolf Cal. Comp. N. 
1 Dhrubadaas Bhattacharyya. 
BANKURA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE. 
Rolt Cal. Comp. 
100 Krighnakiaor Chattopadhyay. 


107 


108 


NON-COLLEGIATE 


পি‏ کی یہ 


BERHAMPORE GIRLS’ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
Arati Sarkar. 
Nihar Bhattacharyya, 
Basanti Sarkar. 
Anita Dalal. 
BERHAMPORE K. শি, COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Prabirchandra Bandyopadhyay. 
Nurul Anwar. 
BETHUNE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
Anuradha Chakrabarti. 


BISHNUPUR RAMANANDA COLLEGE. 
Roll 081. Comp. 
Pradyotkumar Dasray. 


BURDWAN RAJ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Santipada Chakrabarti. 


CENTRAL CALCUTTA COLLEGE, 
ا501‎ Cal. Comp. 
Siddhartha Dasgupta. 
Tarapada Ray. 
Mohammad Masum. : 
Amarendranath Mukhopadhyay. 


CHANDERNAGAR COLLEGE. 
۲٥۱۱ Cal. Comp. 
Satyadeb Bandyopadhyay. 


011 Cal. Comp. F. 


Aruna Palit, 
Labanyaprabha Mitra. 


CHARUCHANDRA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 


Pijushkanti De. 

Byomkes Ghoshal. 

Sunitchandra Acharyyachaudhuri. 
Sandipkumar Gangopadhyay. 
Manindranath Ghosh. 


STUDENT, 
COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. .ا‎ 


Sunilkumar Modak. 
Debnarayan Chakrabarti, 
Hanuman Jha. 


City COLLEGE. 
Roli Cal. Comp. 


Ajaykumar Chakrabarti. 
Amarnath De, 
Narayanchandra Das. 
Ajitkumar Mitra. 
Debiprasad Maiti. 
Tarakkumar Mallik. 
Atindranath Samanta. 
Amitabha Dasgupta. 


CHARUCHANDRA 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, CITY COLLEGE, 


8 


Roll Cal. Comp. ۰ 
Shah Wasiuddin Ahmad. 


466 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


CONTA! P. K. COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


111 Bhaobataran Paria, 
112 Saralkumar Mandal. 


DARJEELING GOVT. COLLEGE. 
Roll Gal. Comp. 
116 Doji Tsering Bhutia. 
DARJEELING ST. JOSEPH’S COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
114 Sashi Narayan Dewan. 
HOWRAH NARASINHA DUTT COLLEGE. 
Roll 081, Comp. 
117 Sujitkumar Kar, 
HUGHLI MOHSIN COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 
118 Nandadulal Mukhopadhyay. 
HUGHLI WOMEN’S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
63 Kanak Kabira). 


JALPAIGURI PRASANNADEB BALIKA 
MAHAVIDYALAYA.,. 


Roll Cal. Comp, F. 
67 Aditi Chakrabarti. 
JIAGANJ SRIPAT SINGH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cail. Comp. 
122 Mrigankabhushan Das. 
KRISHNAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
190 Asokchandra Adhikari. 
Roll Cal. Comp, F. 
73 Sandhya Datta. 
LADY BRABOURNE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. ۴ 


8 Suna) da Das. 

11 Sumitra Reha. 

13 Dipali Niyogi. 

14 Manika Ghosh. 
LORETO HOUSE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


18 Induamati Prasad, 
19 Lakshmi Sundaram. 


MAHARAJA M, ٥. COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


78 Subodhkumar Basu. 
79° Binaygopal Basu. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


16 Sadhana Ray. 
17 Surama Debi. 


MAHISADAL RAJ COLLEGE. 
Rol! Cal. Comp. 
133 Nibaranchandra Maiti. 
MIDNAPORE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cat. Comp. 


129 Sudhansubhushan Adhikari. 
130 Pranabkumar Dutta. 


MURALIDHAR GIRLS’ COLLEGE, 
Rolf Cal. Comp. F. 
45 Suchitra Dasgupta. 
NABADWIP VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. 
Rol! Cal. Comp. 
123. Kumareschandra Bhattacharyya. 
PRESIDENCY COLLEGE. 
Roli Cat. Comp. 
69 Gogshthabihari Ghosh. 
Roll Cal. Comp. F. 


35 Mamata Basu. 
4 Nandita Datta. : 
37 «Jharna Sengupta, 


SANSKRIT COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


1 Prasadda, Bhettacharyya. 
3 47915] Bhattacharyya, 


উড TEP DAP AID SPC HDS ORR AO ITE 


13] 


ی٦‎ 


16 
17 
18 
19 
20 


2 
2 


9 


pe 


86 


83 
84 
85 


55 
80 


GO مو ہی‎ SS 


11. 


[Parr IB 


کک روک رج সপন‏ 


SCOTTISH CHURCH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Chinyere Okore Okoreaflhia. 
Birendranath Chattopadhyay. 
Bilaschandra Chattopadhyay, 
Dilipkumar Ghosh. 

Jai Chandra Jha. 
Sankarkumar Basumallik. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F, 


Manjula Sinha. 
Manjusri Ruy. 


SERAMPORE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Kandiah Thirunavukarasu. 
ST. PAUL'S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Murugesu Arumugam Kanagasingham. 
Barunkumar Das. 


ST. XAVIER'S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 


Morgan Khan. 
Chittaranjan Mitra. 
Sunilkumar Hor. 


Peter Kin-Maung. 


Persico Pasquale. 


SURENDRANATH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 

Lakshmanchandra Saha. 
Rabindranath Bhattacharyya. 
Umagankar Chattopadhyay. 
Pranabendu Gupta. 
Kunal Dasgupta. . 
Dhirendrakumar Pal. 


SURI VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. ~ 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sasankosekhar Karinakar, 
Narayanchandra Saha. 


VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Pyare Mohan Wabhal. 
Sunilkumar Acharyya. 
Ram Vyas Singh. 
Samirkumar Sarkar, 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE. 

Roli Cal. Comp. F. 

Asoka Das. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS. 
Roll Cal. Comp. FN, 


Sukirtham Williams, 
Achamma P. Kurian. 
Rekha Basu. 

Reba Ghosh. 
Jogmaya Sinha. 


Roll Cal. Comp. N, 


Md. Ekramuddin. 
Mohammad Ibrahim Jafri. 
Samareschandra Bera, 
Sheo Pujan Pandeya. 
Gopalchandra Samanta, 
Sudhansusekhar Maiti, 


The undermentioned candidates who appeared at 


the B.Sc (Compartmental) Examination, held in Septem- 
ber, 1955, in one subject only under Section 40 (Compart- 
mental Rules). Chapter XXXVI (B.Se.) of the Univer- 
sity Regulations and passed in that subject are now 
declared to have passed the B.A. Examination:— 


AGARTALA MAHARAJA BIR BIKRAM COLLEGE. 


Roll Agar Comp. 


Rameschandra Saha. 
Rajendralal Chakma, 
Radharanjan Debchandhuri., 
Abanibaran Chakrabarti. 


A8SUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Nityananda Chattopadhyay. 
Kamalkumar Mukhopadhyay, 
Jyotirmay Ray. 

Dipakkumar Ray. 
Dipakkanti Ray, 
Ranendrakumar Sarkar. 
Arunkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Hirakkanti Chaudhuri. 
Pradyotkumar Chel. 
Amitabha Datta, 


Part 1B] 


ডক ৪ উস পাপা ba‏ ڈرو سرچھ জাত তা পাতি wey eh‏ ہے مر یھو ہو 
وووہیوسوسوچس রা - ০ REE TEC, Me Mey‏ 


ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Salilkumar Datta. 
Rabindranath Das. 
Krishnanarayan Gupta. 
Karunamay Ghosh. 
Samirkumar Sengupta. 
Nimaicharan 82. 
Rabindranath Chattopadhyay, 1 
of 1951-52), 
Salil Chattopadhyay, 
Dilipkumar Bhattacharyya. 
Alokkumar Basu. 
Samirkumar Basu. 
Prasantakumar 1388, 
Anilkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Ajaykumar Dattagupta. 
Debiprasad Ray. 
Durgacharan Karmakar. 
Projjwalsankar Sen. 
Adhirkumar Chaudhuri. 
Sisirkumar Datta. 
Kesuriprabhab Dattabarman. 
Nadianandan Mandal. 
Narayan Basumajumdar. 
Subhendukumar Bhattacharyya. 


Roll Cal, Comp. ۶.٠ 


Bandana De, 
Maya Guharay. 
Tla Basu. 


BANGABASI COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Jibanchandru Bhattacharyya. 
Anirudba Rai, 

Ranjit Gangopadhyay. 
Sasankabhushan Ghosh. 
Santinay Basu. 

Diuipkumar Das. 

Manoranjan Kar. ‘ 
Santanukumar Das. 
Krshnachandra Gangopadhyay. 
18181817181 Ghosh. 

Asoknath Bandyopadhyay. 
Sibnath Bandyopadhyay. 
Subrata Mitra. 

Atulkrishna Pal. 

Balaram De, 

Susikumar Datta. 
Arunkumar Chakrabarti. 
Pranaykumar Majuindar, 
Radhagobinda Bera. 
Saradindu Ray. 
Pranabkumar Datta. 
sudhindrakumar Deb. 
Varaknath Misra. 

Kanailal Mukhopadhyay. 
Subhashkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Gopikaraman Brahmachari, 
Pranabkumar Das, 
Asitkumar Kundu. 
Madhailal Mukhopadhyay. 
Pratulchandra Ghatak. 
Hemendraprasad Chakrabarti. 
Sunilkanta Chattopadhyay. 
Gaurchand Datta. 
Amitranjun Bhattacharyya. 
Anadikumar Gupta. 
Birajkumar Barman. 
Surajchandra Chakrabarti. 
Anilkumar Chaudhuri. 
Kartikehandra Adhikari. 
Sunilehandra Datta. 
Dilpkumar Sengupta. 
Asimkumar Mitra. 
Dihpkumar Bardhan. 
Hasudeb Bhattacharyya. 
Salilchandra Maitra, 
Sibnarayan Ghoshdastidar. . 
Lala Chandeshwar Prasad Sinha. 
Satyanarayan Handyopadhyay. 
Rabindranath Bandyopadhyay. 
Hirendrakumar Basu. 
Nirmalchandra Sarkar. 

Shree Bhagawan Behany. 
Amalkanti Mitra. 
Ajaykumar Das. 
Dulalehandra Ghosh. 
Dhireschandra Pal, 
Syamacharan Ghosh, 
Salilranjan Sengupta. 
Sammtendranath 10158511001, 
Parimalebandra Taran. 
Sisirkumar Haldar, 

Satinath Bandyopadhyay, 
Subhashranjan Chakrabarti. 
Sudhbamay Datta. 
Phanindrabhushan Batabyal, 
Muktinath Bandyopadhyay. 


(Regn. No. 248 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


416 


421 


کہ ژ ৯৮৫৮-৪৯-০৮ পপ‏ 
مو শিসিপপীপসপিপিপিউি‏ سم 


407 


COLLEGE.‏ 5۱ھ0۸8 ۸۶ 8ا 
Roll Cal. Comp.‏ 


Chaudhuri. 
Byomkes Hajra. 
Dhurjatikumar Majumdar. 
Krishuakumar Dhar. 


u Chattopadhyay. 


Rolt Cal. Comp. চি, 
Savitri Girdharilal Gidwaney. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, 8۸۸ ۱۸8۸8۱ COLLEQE. 


Roli Cai, Comp, ۰ 


Mrinalkanti Chakrabarti. 
Pranabkumar Basu. 


Sibeswar Mukhopadhyay. 
Kar. 
Haripada Barman. 


BANKURA CHRISTIAN COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Arabindakumuar Chandra. 
Ajitkumar Das. 

Sumon Kumar Mohapatra. 
Sudhir Kumar Senapoty. 


BERHAMPORE KRISHNATH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp, 


Bireswar Chakrabarti. 
Balaknath Mukbopadhvay. 
Sisirkanta Chakrabarti. 
Rabindrakumar Chattopadhyay. 
Sudhirkumar Das. 
Pradiptakumar Kar. 
Indubhushan Majumdar. 
Niranjan Majumdar. 
Trilochan Mukhopadhyay. 
Ajitkumar Raychaudhari. 
Jaynarayan Ghoshal. 


BURDWAN RAJ COLLEGE. 


Roli Cal. Comp. 


Santoshkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Prabhatkumar Kunungo. 
Rabindranath Kumar. 
Debkinkar Mukhopadhyay, 
Ramprasad Ray. 

Radhamohan Mhagat. 


CHANDERNAGAR COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Subratasankar Bhaduri. 
Amalkumar Mitra. 
Sunilkkumar Chakrabarti. 
Mrinalkanti Biswas. 
Prabhatkumar Bhakta. 


Cal. Comp. F.‏ اا۲ 


CITY COLLEGE, 


Roli Cal. Comp, 


Bhabatosh Bhattacharyya. 
Dhireschandra 
Nabendu Bandyopadhyay. 
Baidyanath Bandyopadhyay, 
Parthasarathi Bandyopadhyay. 
Gobardhan Bhattacharyya. 
Dilipkumar Whaitacharyya. 
Sudhendunath Bhattacharyya. 
Kisorimohan Bhattacharyya. 
Debkumar Biswas, 
Ranjitkumar Das. 
Kaliprasad Deb. 
Rajendranath De. 
Amiyakumar Gangopadhyay. 
Salilkumar Gangopadbvay, 
Keki Dinyar Gardin. 
Somendrakrishna Ghosh. 
Pratulkumar Datta. 
Samareschandra Ghosh. 
Rathindranath Ghosh. 
Krishnamohan Ghosh. 
Nirmalyamohan Ghosh, 
Jibankrishna Goswami. 
Debabrata Gupta. 

Bhabatosh Gupta. 

Dhurjati Mukhopadhyay. 
Pritiskumar Mitra. 
Nirendranath Mukhoti. 
Gurudas Mukhopadhvay., 
Susilranjan Ray. 

Sankar Raychandhuri. 
Satyaranjan Sengupta, 
Madhusudan Siddhanta, 


Dhar. 


468 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, CITY COLLEGE. 


479 


CITY COLLEGE. 


Roli Cal. Comp. 


Nakuleschandra Joardar. 
Mohammad Kabir Kirmani. 
Anilbaran Kundu. 
Manimohan Kundu. 
Rudhirchandra Manna. 
Salilkumar a 
Surendranath Kar. 

Sibapada Sengupta. 
Chittaranjan Datta. 
Bimalkumar De. 
Satyanarayan Sarkar. 
Pabitrakumar Das. 
Abhaypada Chaudhuri. 
T'apaskumar Bandyopadhyay, 
Ramendralal Bandyopadhyay. 
Gopiballabh Banik. 
Mohammad Irfan. 

Ram Dayal Singh. 

Srihari Saha. 

Rabindranath Pal. 
Narayanchandra Kundu. 
Sankarbhushan Mallik. 
Santoshkumar Manna. 
Subhashchandra Giri. 
Subratakumar Guha. 
Arunkumar Goswami. 

Md. Mahboob-ur-Rahman ‘‘Mahbub’’, 
YP. K. Easo. 
Retnam Arulnathan Thambyrajab. 
Dilipranjan Sarkar. 
Gajendranath Samanta. 
Chittaranjan Piplai. 
Bidhubhushan Nayek. 
Guiram Mandal. 

Mauji Lall. 

Amiya Kumar Mandal. 
Ahibhushan Dan. 
Sachmkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Jatindranath Bhattacharyya. 
Kalidas De. 

Anadinath Bandyopadhyay. 
Anilgopal Raychaudhuri. 
Sayed Ali Mondol. 
Bidhankumar Chakrabarti. 
Sunilkumar Basu. 
Debabrata Maitra. 
Nirmalchandra Sarma. 
Satyaranjan Bhanjachaudhburi. 
Barun Sengupta. 
Subodhranjan Ghosh. 
Tusharkanti Jana. 
Sunilkumar Bhattacharyya. 


Roll Cal. Comp. ۴۰ 


Lina Rakshit. 
Sushila Bijlani. 
Purnima Bhaduri. 


Roll Cail, Comp. N. 
Biswanath Bhattacharyya. 
Rathindraneth Chakrabarti. 
COOCH-BEHAR VICTORIA COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 
Anilendu T'alukdar. 
Santoshchandra Majumdar. 


DARJEELING GOVERNMENT COLLEGE, 


Roli Cal. Comp. 
Haladhar Das. 
Sujibankumar Ray. 


DARJEELING 8T. JOSEPH’S COLLEGE. 


8911 Cal. Comp. 
Sunder Jung Rana. 


HOWRAH NARASINHA DUTT COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Kanailal Ghosh. 

Pulakes Sanyal. 
Tuhinkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Biswanath Kundu. 
Adhirchandra Sarkar. 


HUGHLI MOMSIN COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. 


Nirmalkumar Bhattacharyys. 
Santipriya Basu. 
Samarendramohan Datta. 
Nilmani Chattopadhyay, 


৩৩ ০০ ھ دہ‎ ৩৩ £৩ 


Pees পাপী পপ সাহস হি পর ও এনা 
پش‎ TIE کیج سے‎ 


KRISHNAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Kamales Bhaumik. 

Ranajit Chaudhuri. 

Anupam Chattopadhyay. 
Ranajitkumar Ghosh. 
Debiprasad Ghoshal. 
Nirmalchandra Haldar. 
Ranajitkumar Pathak. 
Basudeb Bandyopadhyay. 
Ranajitkumar Chattopadhyay, 


MIDNAPUR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Anilkumar Mitra. 
Dhrubaranjan Mandal. 
Parimalkumar Giri. 
Sankar Mitra. 

R. Santok Singh. 


PRESIDENCY COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Chiraranjan Ghoshal. 
Dilipkumar Basu. 

Deochand Sarda. 

Arunkumar Saha. 

Jayanta Datta. 

Pratulchandra Bandyopadhyay. 


Roll Cail. Comp. ۴۰ 
Sipra Ghosh. 


SCOTTISH CHURCH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Dhirendranath Mitra. 
Murarimohan Som, 

Tapan Sen. 

Sunilkumar Datta. 

Subimal Das. 
Suchitragopal Chattopadhyay. 
Satyapriya Maulik. 
Arunkumar Bhattacharyya. 
Prabhatkumar Aditya. 
Anilkumar Adhya. 
Ajitkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
Sunirmal Das. 

Parimal Dasgupta. 

Hiralal Datta. 

Amaraankar Ghosh. 
Kumudbandhu Haldar. 
Sudhansuballabh Mandal. 
Dipakkumar Mitra. 
Brajabandhu Mukhopadhyay. 
Ravi Vidhan Nair. 
Jaydebkumar Pal, 
Bimalkumar Bhadra. 
Indubbushan Biswas. 
Kamalendu Chattopadhyay. 


Roll Cal. Comp. ا‎ 


Kanika Datta. 
Sipra Datta. 
Maya Ray. 
Tara Ghosh. 
Dipti Ghosh. 


SERAMPORE COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Prabhaschandra Malkhandi. 
Sunilkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Kantibar Chakrabarti. 
Sasankasekhar Das. 
Sukhamay Mukhopadhyay. 
Haricharan Santra. 
Velluppillai Canagasabai. 
Santinath Bandyopadhyay, 
Kalisadhan Sengupta. 


ST. PAUL’S COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp, 


Asimes Datta. 

Bijankumar Mitra. 
Biswanath Raychaudhuri. 
Kunal Ray. 

Nityaranjan Das. 
Samarendra Bandyopadhyay. 


ST. XAVIER’S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Pranahkumar Chattopadhyay. 
Bhagwati Prasad Tantia. 
Sudhangshu Kumar ۰ 
Purnendu Barman. 

GQ. V. Rajan, 

8. Lakshminarayan. 

R. Balachandran. 


[Parr 113 


সিসি পার 


Part IB] 


পি উরে জপ আন জপ শপ পপ TR ECAP ہم‎ 5 সি ہے‎ 
হম চপ বাক ০৫ আপ ১৫৭৭০ সপ পা 


SURENDRANATH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


57 Prabhat Basak. 

69 Krishnananda Ghosh. 

6 Satyacharan Modak. 

62 Dineschandra Mukhopadhyay. 
64 Mrigankaranjan Saha. 

65 Biswanath Sanyal. 

66 Nareschandra Sen. 

87 Ajaykumar Sengupta, 

70 Sukumar Bandyopadhyay. 

71 Sujitkumar Bhattacharyya. 
19 Sunilkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
74 Bhagirath Mandal. 

75 Sukomal Sen. 

77 Samarnath Bandyopadhyay. 
78 Nirmalendu Maitra. 

79 Sachindranath Mukhopadhyay. 
80 Sailajapati Ganyopadhyay. 

82 Syamalbaran Mitra. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, 
COLLEGE, 


Roll Cal. Comp. N. 


3 Gopalmohan Sinha. 
15 Amalkumar Majumdar. 
17 Basudebprasad Deb. 
18 Debkumar Biswas. 


SURI VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


458 Syed Sajed Ali. 
458 Biswanath Bandyopadhyay. 


VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE, 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


23 Barindranath Mustaphi. 

24 Pradyotkumar Mukhopadhyay, 
53 Subhashkumar Basu. 

54 Amarnath Bandyopadhyay. 
55 Dilipkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
56 Sambhunath Gangopadhyay. 
902 BKidyutkanti Balniyogi. 

203 Syamalkrishna Bandyopadhyay. 
204 Ranjitkumar Bhadra. 

205 Dibakar Bhattacharyya. 

207 Priyabhushan Chakrabarti. 
208 Jai Kishore Arora. 

209 Ajitkumar Basu. 

211 Nisithranjan Chaudhuri. 
212 Bijaykumar Das. 

214 Pranilkumar Chattopadhyay. 
215 Lakshmanchandra Saha, 
216 Sarbananda Bandyopadhyay. 
217 Madanmohan Ghosh, 

218 Ram Nath Khettry. 

219 Sasankasekhar Pal. 

220 Swamicharan Pal. 

223 Nagendrakumar De. 

227 =Sisirkumar Gangopadhyay. 
228 Debabrata Ghosh. 

230 Bhagwat Kishore Gupta. 
233 Prasantakumar Chakrabarti. 
234 Sailendranath ۰ 

230 Kiritikanta Kumar. 

240 Bhaktibhushan Ray. 

241 Kinkarchandra Pal. 

242 Tarunkumar Sarkar. 

244 Upendranath Sen. 

246 Tusharkumar Ray. 

249 Asitkumar De. 

250 Asutosh Sanyal, 

251 Pankajkumar Sengupta. 

252 Tapankumar Sengupta. 

253 Binaykumar Majumdar. 
255 Rameschandra De. 

257 Somnath Chattopadhyay. 
258 Biswanath Chattopadhyay. 
259 Nisithranjan Mitra. 

260 Kanailal’ Mukhopadhyay. 
201 Sujitkumar Mitra. 

262 Gunendranarayan Mukhoti. 
2083 Kamalbihari Palehaudhuri. 
264 Tapankumar Raychaudhuri. 
265 Akulkumar Sengupta. 

269 Nirmalendu Sengupta. 

270 Jibendrachandra Sen. 

433 Kantiranjan Chakrabarti. 


Roll Cal, Comp. F. 
15 Seba Sarkar. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, VIDYASAGAR 
COLLEGE 


SURENDRANATH 


081 Cal. Comp. N, 


18 Asimkumar Ghosh. 

20 Pranabkutmar Guha. 

21 Dilipkumar Majumdar, 

22 Sisirkumar Bandyopadhyay. 


ee Sa AR a a RN‏ 6ت 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 469 


Ill. The following orders have been passed by the Vice- 
Chancellor and Syndicate of the University of Calcutta 
in respect of the cases of breach of ور‎ arising in 
connection with the B.Sc, Compartmental Examination, 
held in 1955:— 


_ (i) The Examination for 1955 of the following candidate 
is cancelled and he is debarred from appearing at any 
University Examination in 1956:— 


Manindrakisor Sarkar, Roll Cal. Comp, N. No. 8 
(Regn. No. 16823 of 1950-51), non-collegiate 
student, Berhampur Krishnath College. 


(ii) The Examination for 1956 of the following candi- 
dates is cancelled:— 


1 Amalkanti Dharchaudhuri, Roll Cal. Comp. No. 224, 
Vidyasagar College. 

2 Kantipada Basu, Roll Cal. Comp. No. 317 (Regn. 
No. 18213 of 1948-49), Asutosh College. 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


RESULTS OF THE 8.COM. COMPARTMENTAL 
EXAMINATION, NOVEMBER, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 17th December, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates who appeared at the 
B.Com. (Compartmental) Examination, held in November, 
1955, in one subject only under Section 4C (Compart- 
mental Rules), Chapter XXXIV-A (B.Com.) of the Uni- 
versity Regulations and passed in that subject are now 
declared to have passed the B.Com. Examination:— 


AGARTALA MAHARAJA BIR BIKRAM COLLEGE. 
Roll Agar. Comp. 
3 Sunilchandra Saha. 
ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


256 Salilkumar Ghosb. 

258 Baidyanath Mukhopadhyay. 

259 Manotoshchandra Bhattacharyya. 

260 Sankardas Chakrabarti, 

261 Gaurisankar Chattopadhyay. 

262 Pranaykumar Bhattacharyya. 

263 Amarnath Ghosh. 

264 Chittaranjan Chakrabarti. 

265 Dilipkumar Dasgupta. 

NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, ASUTOSH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. N. 


62 Manojkumar Das. 
63 Akshaykumar Jena. 


BANGABAS! COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 


222 Hirendranath Bhattacharyya. 
228 Manislal Das. 
225 Chittaranjan Majumdar. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, 8۸ ۷ ٥۸8۸8۱ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. N, 


36 Prakaschandra Chattopadhyay. 
37 Barunkumar Adhikari. 


CHANDERNAGAR COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. F. 
1 Lalita De. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, CHARUCHANDRA 


COLLEGE. 
Roll 081. Comp. N. 


30 Bimalkanta Raychaudhuri. 
55 Anandakumar Mallik. 

56 Santoshchandra De. 

57 Santisekhar Basu. 

68 Sunilkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
61 Debabrata Dasgupta. 


6۱۳۷١ COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


8 Susilkumar Bandyopadhyay. 
10 Mihirkumar Sen. 

11 Saurendranath Bhattacharyya. 
12 Kashi Nath Ram. 

14 Mohan Lal Bhagat. 

15 Tarunendubikas Gangopadhyay. 
16 V. Balakrishnan. 

17 .ا‎ K. Krishnan. 

20 Sailendranath Das. 

21 Nikhiles Ghosh, 

22 Sunilchandra Poddar. 

23 Basudeb Kundu. 

24 Chandrasekhar Karmakar. 

25 Bhupalchandra Mukhopadhyay. 
26 Serajul Haque Mondol. 

28 Ranjitkumar Ray. 


470 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


CITY COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Sukhendu Sengupta. 
Gopendrakumar Sikdar. 
Bimalkumar Basu. 
Sarojkumar Biswas. 
Amritalal Chakrabarti. 
Dwijendrakumar Chakrabarti. 
Maniklal Bandyopadhyay. 
Mukundabihari Bandyopadhyay. 
Jibankrishna Acharyyachaudhuri. 
Shyamlal Agarwal. 
Banwarilal Agrawal, 
Ram Gopal Bhuwania. 
Shikhar Chandra Bhandari. 
Narayan Shanker Bhatt. 
Mannalal Bengani. 
Purushottam Das Ajmera. 
Radha Kishan Agarwalla. 
Radheshyam Agarwala. 
Samarendranath Gupta. 
Pranabkumar Ghosh. 
Achintya Ghosh. 
Nepulchandra Dasgupta. 
Mrinalkanti Deb. 
Matilal Das. 
Chandra Narayan Kanth. 
Banwari Lall Jalan. 
Hiralal Gupta. 
Ratanlal Dhoot. 
Ramawatar Dhaniwal. 
Puranchand Khanna. 
Vishwa Nath Kedia. 
Sitaram Jhunjhunwala. 
Ramesh Chandra Ghiya. 
Asitkumar Datta. 
Taritkumar Das. 
Harisankar Pal. 
Ghanasyam Mukhopadhyay. 
Sauryyakumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Ranen Mitra. 
Niranjankumar Kole, 
Sambhunath Niyogi. 
Rukmanand Saraf, 
Madanlal Sarda. 
Mohanlal Pasari. 
Rishabh Kumar Munot. 
Manohar Raj Mohnot. 
Khushal Chhaganlal Pittalia. 
Mohammed Abbas. 
Manden Ramchandran. 
P. V. Nainan. 
Jaswant Santilal Shah. 
Nityaranjan Dassarma, 
Binodchandra Bhadra. 
Harendranath Sikdar. 
کس‎ Narain Singh. 
Sambhuprasad Nandi. 
Asimkumar Raychaudhuri. 
Ramendranath Dattachaudburi, 
Ranajitkumar Datta. 
Amitmay Ghosh. 
Jitendranath Mitra. 
Bimalkumar Bhakta. 
Dulalchandra Bhaumik. 
Bimalkumar Chakrabarti. 
Arunharan Bhattacharyya. 
Himansukumar Bhattacharyya. 
Kalachand Bhattacharyya. 
Raghunath Chakrabarti. 
Chittaranjan Ghosh. 
Kanaila) Chakladar. 
Janamejay Mitra. 
Sachchidananda Das, 
Indrakumar Dhara. 
Ghulam Mahmud. 
Gorakh Nath Pandey. 
Banwari Ojha. 
Sita Ram Sharma. 
Kartikchandra Sarkar. 
Amiyakrishna Ray. 
Harendrachandra Ray. 
Narayanchandra Pal. 
Samarendranath Pal. 
Amritakumar Gangopadhyay. 
Pareschandra Ghosh. 
Rathindranath Gboshchaudhuri. 
Bharatkumar Mukhopadhyay. 
Ajitkumar Naskar. 
Renabir Sen. 
Diptikanta Datta. 
و ام ا‎ 
Nikhilkumar Pramanik. 
Asokkumar Rudra, 
Achintyakumar Sen., 
Phanibhushan Sarkar. 
Biswanath Bandyopadhyay 
Pradyotkumar Basu. 
Binaybhushan Das. 
Praneschandra De. 
meschandra De. 


01 COLLEGE. 
ا‎ Cal. Comp. 


Kasinath Datta. 
Bimalkanti Bhaumik. 
Niranjanlal 13. 

Ratan Lal Sarawgi. 
Pranab Khastagir, 

Jagjyiban Mukhopadhyay. 
Sukhamay Das. 

Brajagopal Mukhopadhyay. 
Ram Sunder Prasad. 
Rammohan Bandyopadhyay, 
Arunkumar Chanda. 
Arunkumar Ghosh. 

Moti Lal Agrawal. 
Akhauri Awadhesh Nandan Kumar. 
Badri Narain Sinha. 
Birendrachandra Pal. 
Arunkumar Bhattacharyya. 
Debaprasad Ghosh. 
Narayanchandra Pain. 
Birendranath Chakrabarti. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, CITY COLLEGE. 


GOENKA COLLEGE OF COMMERCE AND BUSINESS 


NOG 


GS BS ہے‎ 


212 


7011 Cal. Comp. N. 


Subhashchandra Bhattacharyya. 
Bishnumangal Chakrabarti. 
Manindranath Ghosh. 
Bibhutibhushan Das. 
Kaliprasad Ray. 
Karunaprasad Dasgupta. 
Santoshkumar Hajra. 
Usharanjan Bhattacharyya. 
Kalidas Bandyopadhyay. 
Birendranath Ghosh. 
Bhupatiranjan Biswas. 
Dhirendrakumar Chattopadhyay. 
Bijaykrishna Das. 
Debendranath Samanta, 
Himansusekhar Sen. 
Sachikanta Senapati. 
Digbasananda De. 
Susantakumar Ghosh. 
Panchdeo Mishra. 

Sankar Ray. 

Viswanatha lyer Narayanan. 
Mahadevan Ganapathy, 
Syaminatha Balasubramanian. 
Radhapada Sen. 

Sajan Kumar Mawandia. 
Debabrata Mukhopadhyay. 
Rabindranath Basu. 
Nanigopal Ghosh. 
Sailendranath Ghosh. 
Haraprasad Pal. 
Niranjapprasad Das. 
Anindya Datta. 

Dilipkumar Sengupta. 


ADMINISTRATION. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


Tarunkumar Sarkar, 
Pabitrakumar De. 
Amalendu Nandi, 
Samirkumar Sanyal. 


KHARGPUR COLLEGE. 
Roli Cal. Comp. 


Amiyapada Chattopadhyay. 
না Mukhopadhyay. 
Sunilkumar Chattopadhyay. 


MAHARAJA M. C. COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
Sunilkumar Bhattacharyya, I (Regn. No. 7108 of 
1948-49) 


Narayanchandra Chakrabarti. 
Ananthnath Chattopadhyay. 
Amargopal Datta. 
Hirendranath Bhattacharyya. 


Sunilkumar Bhattacharyya, 11 (Regn. No. 1428 of 


1950-51). 
Atmarain Mandal, 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENT, MAHARAJA M. 6. 
COLLE 


34 


Roll 081. Comp. N. 
Nanigopal Ghoshdastidar. 


NAIHATI RISH!I BANKIMCHANDRA COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal, Comp. 


Sudinprakas Bandyopadhyay, 
Sudhirkumar Ghoshmajumdar. 
Baidyanath Mallik. 
Satyendranath Bandyopadhyay, 
Pranabkumar Sarkar. 


[Part IB 


Parr IB] 


ee 


ہد مہے ےو ھیسسے পপ eee‏ 


SETH ANANDRAM JAIPURIA COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 
991 Amiyakumar Dasgupta. 


SIBPUR DINABANDHU COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 


179 Nilratan Chattaraj. 
180 Krishnachandra Sarkar. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, SIBPUR DINABANDHU 
COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. N. 


32 Sunilkumar Samaddar. 
33 Anilendrakrishna Mitra, 


8. XAVIER'S COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal, Comp. 


181 Dwarikanath Mitra. 

182 Manilal Velji Kothari. 

183 Sibaprasad baa 

184 Sunilkumar Mukhopadhyay. 

185 Anandamohan Chattopadhyay. 

186 Davinder Kumar Jairath. 

187 Mohammad Shoaib. 

188 Ganeschandra Chandra. 

189 Krishnakumar Sarma, 

190 Binaykumar Bandyopadhyay, 

191 Hans Raj Jain. 

142 Dhrub Prasad Agrawal. 

193 Laddoo Gopal Nathany. 

194 Karnidan Chhajer. 

5 Kamala Prasad Gutgutia. 
Jagdish Parshad Single. 

197 Nemchand Dugar. 

198 Abhay Singh Surana, 

199 Ram Chandra Vijaya. 

200 Jayadamba Prasad Mishra. 

201 Kedar Nath Khemka. 

902 Simon ۰ 

205 Gopi Krishna Mohta. 


SURENDRANATH COLLEGE. 
Roi Cal. Comp, 


230 Sukumar Bhattacharyya. 
233 Satindrakisor Chaudhuri. 
234 Kalipada Das. 

235 Nikhilchandra Chaudhuri. 
236 Haridas Chattopadhyay. 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
WEST BENCAL 
NOTIFICATION No. Syl. /20/56 
Calcutta, the 23rd June 1966 
Text-book on History for Class VII 


It is notified that  ‘‘Manab-O-Sabhyata, 
Madhyajug (Revised Edition)’, written by 


Shri Paresh ath Banerjee and published by 
Nalanda [Dress is approved as u text-book on 
History (in Bengali), for Class VIT for 1956, and 
for the following year. 

By order of the Administrator, 


D. P. RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


হিসি 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
WEST BENCAL 
NOTIFICATION No. Syl. /21/56 
Dated the 27th June 19656 
Syllabi in Pali far Classes VI, Vil and VIII 
The following shall be the syllabi of studies in 


Pali for Classes VI, VII and ۷111. The syllabi 
will be introduced in 1957. 


Class VI 


A primer will be preseribed. The primer ehould 
be printed in Roman script (in 14 point tvpe) and 
should contain not more than 82 pages (&” x 64) 
including illustrations. It should illustrate 
Ample grammatical forma and expressions in Pali, 
starting with the Pali alphabet. No grammar 
will be prescribed for Class VI. 


Classes VII-V1II1 
A graduated Reader for Classes VII ind VITI 
গা 


er will be prescribed. It should contain 
D forms (Crown Octavo 74” ৮6) printed in Roman 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1966 471 


(কপ আপ a ee cae RE কা 


SURENDRANATH COLLEGE. 
Roll Cal. Comp. 

237 Satyendranath Chattopadhyay. 

238 Anilkumar De. 

239 Anandamohan Gangopadhyay. 

241 Bhabataran Mandal. 

243 Saileswar Mitra. 

244 Sunilkrishna Pal. 

245 Dilhpnarayan Ray. 

246 اسم ار‎ Mull Sand, 

247 Salilchandra Chattopadhyay. 

248 Ajitkumar Ray. 

249 Pares Raychaudburi, 

250 Debendranath Saha. 

251 Hemchandra Chakrabarti, 

252 Rabindranarayan Dasgupta. 

253 Mrinalkanti Mukhopadhyay. 
NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, 
COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. N. 


45 Samarendranarayan Basu. 

46 Asitranjan Bhattacharyya. 
47 Parbaticharan Bhattacharyya. 
50 Prithwischandra Sen. 

51 Satyaranjan Sarkar. 

54 Bimalendu Bandyopadhyay. 
59 Nanibhushan Kar. 

76 Amaleschandra Datta. 


SURENDRANATH 


VIDYASAGAR COLLEGE, 


Roll Cal. Comp. 
226 Ranjitkumar Basak. 
227 Jagadischandra Nag. 
228 Shiv Dhan Das Ranga. 


NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS, VIDYASAGAR 
COLLEGE. 


Roll Cal. Comp. N. 


38 Pareschandra Karmakarehaudhuri. 
39 Subodh Pal. 

40 Saureschandra Ray. 

41 Bimalkanti Pal. 

42 Dilipkumar De. 

43 Ramsagar Sinha. 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
a) “4 


acript in 12 point type. Two forms will be inught 
in Class VII and the remaining forms being iaught 
in Class VIII. It should incorporate idiomatic 
sentences leading up to short stories and ioral 
lessons in prose and verse, collected from various 
sources. The pieces should be selected with a view 
to creating in the minds of young learners a 
سان‎ interest both in the language and the 
iterature of Pali. 

Pah grammar published on behalf of the Board 
of Secondary Education, West Bengal, will he 
followed in Classes VII and VIII and the follow- 
ing topics should be taught :— 

Alphabet, Euphony, Division of words, change 
of (Gender, Declensions (Masculine bases 
ending in vowels), Conjugation of Verbs 
(Bhuvadi group only), Case-endings anid 
their application. 

By order of the Administrator, 


D. P. RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary, 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST 
BENCAL 
NOTIFICATION No. Syl. /24/56. 
Ualcutta, the 3rd July 1956. 
Text-book on Ceometry (in Urdu) for 
Class ۰ 
Tt is notified that the following book has been 
approved as a text-book on Geometry written in 
Urdu for Class VI for 1956 and for the following 
year : 
Name of the book, Author. Publisher. = Prioe. 


Asan Iim-i-Hindisa Translated by Indian Press Re. 1-8 
F. Khan, B.A., (Pub.), Lid., per copy. 
L. T. Allahabad. 


By order of the Administrator, 
1), 1১, RAY CHAUDHURI, Secretary, 


472 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1996 


GENERAL COUNCIL AND STATE FACULTY 


[Parr IB 
এ 


(J. 8. Ashtanga Ayurveda Vidyalaya) 


RVED MEDICINE EST 
পিন 10 ICINE, W Roll No. Name. 
NOTIFICATIONS 2 Chakrabarty, Murari Mohan. 
The 80th July 1956 3 Chakrabarty, Rati Mohan. 
1. The দি سا وا‎ are ইন 4 Dey, Sakti Prakash. 
to have passed the Fina .A.S.F. Examination 
of the Faculty held in June 1956:— ‘ সা এ 6ھ‎ 
(J. 8. Ashtanga Ayurveda Vidyalaya) z جس شاو تا‎ 
Roll No Name 9 Pradhan, Nirbaun Chandra. 
: oe بے‎ 12 Ray, Radhashyam. 
2 Gupta, Arabinda Kumar. 
3 Paul, Rajendra Nath. 18 Sen, Sanjay Kumar. 
II. The undermentioned candidates are 


declared to have passed the First M.A.S.F. 
Examination of the Faculty held in June 1956:— 


(J. B. Ashtanga Ayurveda Vidyalaya) 


V. The undermentioned eandidates are declared 
to have passed the First Ayurvedtirtha Examina- 
tion of the Faculty held in June 1956:— 


Roll No. Name. (J. B. Ashtanga Ayurveda Vidyalaya) 
3 Maity, Debendra Nath. 
4 Naik, Krupasindbu. 0029 سس کک‎ 
0 Nanda, 13119092770), 1 Adhikaree, Yamanath Sharma. 
6 Nanda, Ashutosh. 8 Ghimire, Khaga Nath, 
i 7 ٭ کت‎ oe 12 Koirala, Gopal Prasad. 
ie undermentioned candidates are ‘hi 
declared to have passed the Preliminary M.A.S.F. 7 এ سو سو‎ 
Examination of the Faculty held in June 1956:— 14 Maity, Asoke Kumar. 
۰ 
(J. ৪. Ashtanga Ayurveda Vidyalaya) 16 Mukherjee, Gopaldev Sharma. 
17 Paul, Amarendra Nath. 
Roll No. Name. ۱ 7 ےت‎ 
1 Das Adhikary, Narayan Chandra. নি ভি 
ٹ8‎ Chakraborty, Nani Gopal. 21 Saha, Pran Gopal. 
3 মা ایت من‎ 
4 Dubey, Girija Shanker. Shyamadas Vaidyashastrapith 
6 Maity, Adhar Chandra. sony ¥ 30 
6 Mohanti, Chakra phar, Roll No. Name. 
7 Pal, Sankar Prasad. 
9 Roy, Chittaranjan. 9 Bhattacharjee, Satyabrata. 
10 Roy, Ramendu Sundar. 5 Das, Sachindra Nath. 

IV. The  undermentioned candidates are 7 Dey, Gope Kumar. 
declared to have passed the Final Ayurvedtirtha 9 Ghoshal, Amiya Kumar. 
Examination of the Faculty held in June 1956:— 10 Kar, Mriganka Shekhar. 

(Shyamadas Vaidyashastrapith) 18 Paul, Bhairab Chandra. 
Rol} No. Name. 
] Acharjee, Pabitra Bhusan. (Vaidyak Pathshala) 
5 Kumant, Sulava. N 
8 Pandey, Rambaran. Roll No. ame. 
10 Rai, Rama Shankar. 11 Kar, Sisir Kumar 


The lst August 1956 


It is hereby notified that the dates of commencement of the next Faculty 
1 and for submission of applications with fees have been fixe 
a8 follows :— 


Date of commencement. Last date for submission of applications 
with feos. 


: 
Without late fee. With late fee. 


Language (Sanskrit) 19th Kartic 1363 B. 8. 19th Aswin 1363 B. 8. 6th Kartic 1363 B. 8. 
Examinations. (5th November 1956) (5th October 1956) (231d October 1956) 


Ayurvedtirtha and 5th Poush 1363 B. 8. 20th Kartic 1363 B.8. 27th Kartio 1363 B.S. 
M.A.8.F. Examina- (20th December 1956) (6th November 1956) (13th November 1956) 
tions. 
(Re. 1 for Language Examinations 
and Re. 2 forall other Examina- 
tions.) 


P. BANERJEE, Registrar. 


Registered No. C207 


0 


ہو 


3h 


4 


* ৯২৮৯ ৮৯৮৯৮ 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


PART Il—Advertisements, Notices 


Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication -of Advertisements, 


41808108815 Cazette’’ (Part 88), 
1, Manusoripts sheuld be property edited and complete in 1۴۰ 
2. Manusoripts should always be typewritten on one 8105 of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type 


written below the signature. 7 


3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of ‘‘Caloutta Gazette’’ shail be recelved by ۲۳ 
68198 07305 at New Georetariat Bulldings, 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at Head Office 


at Alipore up to 12 noon on Monday. 


4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the Manusoripts. 


৮. Manusoripts and postal remittances shali be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, 
WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, 


(PUBLICATION BRANCH), 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING 
ALIPORE. 


The Press shall not be held nsibie for delay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 
instructions detailed above. ےب ت شش رر سس تج‎ 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA 
ORDINARY CIVIL JURISDICTION 


in the matter of Companies Aot, | of 1056 
And 


ln the matter of Societe General industrielle De Chander- 
nagor (Soolety Anonyme). 


NOTICE is hereby given that on the 28th July 1956 a 
petition was presented before the said Court by the above- 
named Company to confirm the alterations of the said 
Company’s Statutes proposed to be effected by a Special 
Resolution of the Company passed at an Extraordinary 
General Meeting held on the 28th March 1956. The said 
Resolution inter alia provides that a new Memorandum and 
Articles of Association be adopted in place of the existing 
Statutes. 


The said petition is directed to be heard before His 
Lordship the Hon’ble Mr. Justice ۶۰. B. Mukharji on 
Monday, the 27th August 1956, at 10-30 o’clock in the fore- 
noon. Any person interested in the said Company 
whether as creditor or otherwise and desirous to oppose the 
making of an order for the confirmation of the alterations 
in the Statutes and adoption of a new Memorandum of 
Association may appear at the time of hearing either by 
himself or his Atterney or Advocate for the purpose and a 
copy of the said petition will be.furnished to any such 
person requiring the same, by the undersigned, on pay- 
ment of the prescribed charges for the same, 


KHAITAN & 00. 
Attorneys for the said Company. 
1B Old Post Office Street, Calcutta. 
0 Slat July 1956. 
ated the 3lst July 1956 ( 1) 


res ہے‎ 


পি‏ مس 


OFFICIAL RECEIVER, HIGH COURT 


In the matter of Premier National Provident Ltd. Cin 
liquidation). 


MEETING of the creditors and contributories of ٥۹ 
abovenamed Company will be held at the office of ৮17৩. 
undersigned at No. 6, Council House Street, Calcutta, on 
Friday, the 31st August 1956, at 1 p.m. gn terms of 
Section 02011) of the Insurance Act, 1938. 


M. M. CHAKRARBARTY, 
Official Liquidator. 


UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 


Advertisement No. 32 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 
posts from Indian citizens and persons migrated from 
Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in India or 
subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former French 
possessions in India. Upper age-limits relaxable by 
5 years for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candi- 
dates and up to 45 years for displaced persona from 
Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 
No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and will 
in no case be relaxed beyond three years. Particulars and 
application forms from Secretary, Union Public Service 
sommission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. Requests for 
forms must specify name of post and should be accompanied 
by self-addressed unstam بے‎ for each post at 
least of size 07 4“ indicating thereon name of post for 
which forms are required. Closing date for receipt of 
application with treasury receipt'‘or crossed Indian Postal 
Order for Rs. 7-8 (Re. 1-14 for Scheduled Castes and” 
Tribes), 8th September 1956 (22nd September 1956 for 
applicants from abroad). Commission may remit genuinely 
indigent and bog fide displaced persons' fee. Separate 
application wit separate fee required for each post. 
Candidages abrdéid may apply on plain paper if form not 
availablé and deposit fee with local Indian Embassy. If 
required, candidates must appear for personal interview. 


1. One Headmaster, Government Gandhi Memorial Craft 
‘High School, Delhi-Shahdara.— Post temporary but likely 
to continue. Pay:—Rs. 250.10---300.--90---400—20---600. 
Highor initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:—Below 35 years. Relaxable for Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifioations—Essential:—(i) Masters or 
equivalent Honours Degreo of recognised University pre- 
ferably in Science with B.T. or ita equivalent. (ii) About 
three years’ teaching experience in Technical High or 
Higher Secondary Schools or Intermediate Colleges. Or 
(1) Bachelors Degree in Science with B.T. or its equivalent. 
(it) About eight years’ teaching experience in Technical 
High or Higher Secondary School; or about two years’ 
educatignal administrative experjence and about one year's 
teaching expemence in Technical High or Higher Secondary 
School. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discre- 
tion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


2. One Assistant Research Officer (Virus) at indian 
Veterinary Rosearoh Institute, Mukteswar-Kumaun, under 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture.—Post permanent but 


٠ 


appointment will be made on temporary basis. Post 
ام‎ for Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate if such 
suitable candidate available otherwise treated unreserved. 
Pay:—Rs. 275—25—500—E. B.—30—650—E. B.—30-—-800. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:—Below 35 vears. Relaxable for Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications—Essential:—(i) Degree or 
Diploma in Veterinary Science of recognised University / 
Institution. (ii) About 3 years’ experience of research in 
bacterial und virus diseases in recognised laboratory or 
Institution. Qualifications  relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion mm case of candidates otherwise well-qualified, 


3. One Chemist, All-India Radio, Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcasting.—Post temporary but likely to 
continue. Post reserved for candidate belonging to 
Scheduled Tribes, failing which for candidate belonging to 
Scheduled Castes; if sintable candidate from neither com- 
munity ig available, post to be treated &৪. unreserved, 
Pay:—Rts. 350-—-25-—450—E.B.—-25—-650. Higher initial 
pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:—Below 30 years. 66 for Government servants. 
Qualifications——Essential:— (i) Degree in Industrial or 
Applied Chemistry or Chemical Engineering of recognised 
University. (ii) Knowledge of Electro-plating and Electro- 
formmng and Electro Chemical processes. টা 
ralaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of candidates 
otherwise well-qualified. 


4. One Research Officer (Social Welfare Diyision), 


Planning Commission._—_Post temporary but likely to 
continue for at least three’ years. Other things being equal, 

reference given to Scheduled Castes 1 candidate. 

ayi—Rs. 350—25—500—E, B.—30—65 800. 
Higher initial pay may be granted to a specially qualified 
and experienced candidate. Age:—RBelow 40 years. Relax- 
able for Government servants. Qualifications— Essential :— 
(i) Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree preferably صر‎ 
Social Science subject from recognised University. (ii) 
Experience of practical work or research relating to Social 
Welfare projects preterably in the field of moral and social 
hygiene and juvenile reform. Qualifications relaxable at 
Commission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise 


well-qualified, 


EK. B.—d 


5. One Senior Research Officer (industry Division), 
Planning Commission.—Post temporary but likely to 
continue for at least three years. Other things being 
equal, preference given to Scheduled Castes/Tribes candi- 
date. Pay:—Rs, 600—40—1,000—1,000—50/2—1,15u. 
Higher initia] pay may be granted to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:-—Below 40 yeas. Relaxable 
for Government servants, Qualifications —Essential:— 
1) Master’s or equivalent Honours Degree in Statistics/ 

ommerce/Mathematics with Statistics as a special subject 
from recognised University. (ii) About three years’ 
experience in analysis and interpretation of data relating 
to company finances and/or sample surveys of different 
aspects of industries in responsible capacity m GoVern- 
ment, semi-Government or private industrial organisation 
of repute. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


6. One Assistant Government Advocate in Ministry of 
Law.--Post temporary, but Likely to last imdefinitely. 
Post reserved for Scheduled Tribes/Castes candidate if 
such suitable candidate available, otherwise treated 
unreserved. Pay:—Rs. 800—40-—1,000 Higher initial 
pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Age:—For Government’ servants:—Between 35 and 45 
years. For others:——Betwen 35 and 42 years. Qualifica- 
tions—-Essential:—-(i) Experience in the Supreme Court 
practice and procedure, with familiarity with Government 
administration and the Constitution. Or Officer of State 
Judicial Service preferably with some sfamiliarity with 
Supreme Court procedure. Or An ۶۳ھ‎ of the High 
Court at Bombay or Calcutta with practical expetience in 
Solicitor’s firm of repute preferably with knowledge of 
Supreme Court procedure. (ii) Eligible for enrolment as 
Advocate in the Supreme Court under the Stpreme Court 
Rules, 1950, 


7. One permanent Civil Assistant Surgeon, Grade {, In 
the Medical Department, Tripura, Ministry of Health.— 
Other things being equal, preference to Scheduled Cantes/ 


Scheduled Tribes. Candidates who applied in response to . 


the Commission’s advertisement No, 5, item 17, which 
appeared on 4th February 1956 need not apply again. 
Pay:—Rs. 200—10—420-—-15—450--E.B. after 10th and 
18th stages. Wigher initial pay to specially qualified and 
experienced candidate. Age:—Below 35 years. Relaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifications— Essential :— 
(i) Medical quahfication included in one of schedules to 
Indian Medical Council Act, 1933. (ii) About two years’ 
professional experience axe House Surgeon/Physician in 
recognised Hospital or in private practice. (iii) Knowledge 
of Bengali language. (Qualifications relaxable at Commis- 


hion’s discretion in case of candidates : 
qualitied tes otherwise well- 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr T] 


চি 
এ পাপা 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No, 40 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Understudy Engineer Mate under Development Depart. 
ment, West Bengal, in connection with the Deep Sea 
Fishing Scheme. The selected candidate will have to assist 
on deck work whenever reqwred, 


(1) Qualifications,— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) Either— 
(a) Certificate of Competency of a second class Engi- 


neer (Motor) issued by the Government of 
India; 
Or, 


(b) Certificate of Competengy of a Sea-going Engine 
Driver (Motor) and approved course of training in 
Mechanical Engineering at a recognised Insti- 
tution ; 
Or, 


(c) Inland Engineer’s (Motor) Certificate issued under 
1.3.۷۰ Act and sufficient experience of operating 
large marine Diesel engines after obtaining such 
vertificate ; 

Or, 


(d) A کر‎ in Mechanical Engineering and sufficient 
workshop service and service afloat. 


Desirable 
Knowledge of Bengali—spoken and written. 


Age between 22 and 35 years on 18٢ September 1956, 
relaxable for a candidate otherwise well qualified. The 
upper age-limit is relaxable by five years tor Scheduled 
Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced persons 
trom Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim Gov- 
ernment servant in undivided Bengal, who had originally 
opted to serve in East Bengal and was working under the 
Government of Kast Bengal after partition, but has since 
formally resigned his service under that Government and 
has come over to India as refugee, 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a cancession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs, 250—20—050-—25— 
per month plus dearness allowance and marine 
allowance at Ks. & per day spent at sea. Higher initial 
pay 1s admissible to a candidate specially well qualified and 
experienced. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calentta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtam 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette’”’ of the 18৮ September 1955, provided the 
blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary aud 
should reach him not later than the 4th September 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required. --Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications an 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one ای‎ prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character, 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their spplica 
(10115 & اس‎ of Rs, 5 an the torm of a receip 

chalan frém ai Governinent Treasury or the Reserve 
Bank of India under the head ‘(XX XV1- Miscellaneous 
~Receipta of the Puble Service Commission, Wert 
Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, eto., in lien 0 


Parr IL] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 217 


৯ 


Treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, how- 
ever, may he accepted from candidates. They should be 
crossed and made payable to ‘‘The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No application will be 
considered unless accompanied with the requisite application 
tee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be for- 
warded by their superior officers. In no case will the fee 
paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of দাশ indi- 
gent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Natta پا‎ A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence that 
he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g. 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, এ 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled 
Tribes claiming oge concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a. gazetted officer 
or » Member of Parliament or State Legislature belong- 
ing to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, specifying 
the particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in ne from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not 
in a position to pay the prescribed ۶0۰۶ 


6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.--Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications t rough persona of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body Ye.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Ahpore, the 7th August 1956. 


টি ১০১১১১১১0১0 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 41 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Lecturor in Panini in the Tol Department of the Sanskrit 
College, Calcutta, in the West Bengal Junior Educational 
Service (Men’s Branch). Women are considered 
unsuitable for the post. 


] lifications.— 
سی تی‎ Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) Title Examination in Panini of Banaras Hindu 
University or Vihar Sanskrit Association, or 
Vyakarana-tirtha in Panini of Bangiya Samekrita 
Siksha Parishad, or equivalent qualifications. 


(ii) Tithe Examination in Kavya. 
(iv) Teaching experience of ten years in recognised Tols. 


Desirable 


(i) Adequate knowledge of ‘‘Nabya Nyaya’’ (Shabda 
Khanda),. 


(ii) Experience in teaching Title students in Panini. 


(iii) Good power of expression in Bengali—-written and, 
apoken, 


Age not more than 45 years on Ist September 1956, 
relaxable in the case of a candidate possessing exceptionally 
high qualifieationa and for persons serving in the Education 
Department, West Bengal. Upper age-limit is relaxable 
by five years for Scheduled Castes7Tribes. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Kast سد‎ and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition but 
has sinve formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
Mont and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who hefore tha 15th August 1047 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence mdicating 
moral turpitude, halt be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper aye-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 


ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of hey 18 Ra. 200—~10-—~420-—15—450 
plus usual allowances. The question of granting higher 
initial pay may be considered im exceptional casey. 


(3) instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with, stamps sufficient to 
cover the postuge affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (mot handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
ا‎ in the “Calcutta Ciazette’’ of the Ist September 


955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not Jater than the 6th September 1956. 


* (4) Particulars and certificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 


from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character 


_ (5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 (for each category of posts) in the 
form of a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury 
or the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXV[— 
Miscellaneous—Receipts of the Public Service Commis- 
sion, West 13971028111, Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu 
of treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, 
however, may be accepted from candidates. They shonld 
be crossed and made payoble to “The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”. No apphcation will be 


considered unless accompanied with the requisite application 
ee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. — | 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of renuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from یں‎ 


019,101) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence . ۷۴ 
he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, ون‎ 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 


officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
origual, 


(i) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifving the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong, 


(ii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must turnish besides the evidence required under 
Noto (1) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed 199.) 


(6) Address.—Candidates _ should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


(7) Canvassing... Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their appheations through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment, Spontaneous recammnnaation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government. a local 
or Statutory Body سم)‎ Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless: they are submitted through 
the appomting authority of their posta or service. 


১, €, CHOWDHUR). Seeretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Benval. 


Ahpore, the 9th August 1956. 


378 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 42 


APPLICATIONS are invited for two temporary posts of 
Lecturer in Commercial Subjects in the West Bengal 
Junior Educational Service (Men’s Branch). Women are 
considered unsuitable for the posts. 


1 11708110118... 
৫ Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part IT of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) A first class Master’s degree in Commerce or a 
second class Master’s degree in Commerce with 
first class in B.Com, of an Indian University; 


Or, 


A Doctorate degree with first class in B.Com. or second 
class Master’s degree in Commerce of an Indian 
University ; 

Or, 


Equivalent foreign qualifications. 


(iii) Specialised knowledge in Commercial Geography 
and/or Commercial Arithmetic. 


0ً 8 ٥ 


Good power of expression in Bengali—written and 
spoken. 


Age not more than 30 years on the lst September 1956, 
relaxable in the case of candidates possessing exgeptionally 
high qualifications and for persons serving in the Educa- 
tion Department, West Bengal. The upper age-limit is 
reluxable by five years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up 
to 45 years for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in East Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that 
Government and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 158 August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
hig activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence: indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
reapect of the upper age-limit. The concession, granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 200—10-—420—15-—450 
per month plus usual allowances. The question of granting 
higher initial pay may be considered in exceptional cases. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the 17 form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House مسا‎ 
floor), Ahpore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar বলে (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘‘Caleutta Gagette’’ of the Ist মিরা 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 10th September 1956. 


sia Particulars and oertificates required —Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates rnust enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of ع‎ receipted 
chalan from a Government Treasu or the Reserve 
Bank of India under the head “XXXVI—Mincellaneons 
~—Receipts of the Public Service Commission, West 
Bengal’’, Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu of 
treasury chalans ere not accepted. Postal orders, 
however, may be accepted from candidates. They should 
be crossed and made payable to ‘The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal”. No application will be 
en unless accompanied with the requisite application 


{Parr 11 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. , 


_ The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence that 
he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 9.0.) 
‘refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
01097 or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


(11) ۸ member of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled 
Tribes claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted oflicor 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Castes or Seheduled Tribes, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.”’ 


6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 13th August 1956. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 43 


APPLICATIONS are invited for 12 temporary posts of 
Assistant Engineers under the following Departments, 
West Bengal; 


Posts. 
(a) Works and Buildings Department _... 7 
(9) Construction Board - 5 


Women are considered unsuitable. 


(1) Qualifications.— 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) A degree in Civil Engineering of a recognised 
University or equivalent qualification. 


(111) Approved practical training for at least one year. 


Age not more than 27 years on 186 November 1955. ‘The 
upper age-limit is relaxable by five years for Scheduled 
Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for displaced persons 
from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim CGov- 
ernment servant in undivided Bengal, who had originally 


* opted to serve in Eaat ا‎ and was working under the 


Government of East Bengal after partition, but has since 
formally resigned his service under that Government and 
has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the l5th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shal] entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum of 
four years. : 


Part IT] 
টি লজ 
(2) Pay.—-The scale of pay is Ra. 250—~20—G50—25—750 


after 10th and 18th stages) per month plus the‏ .لاس 
usual allowances.‏ 


পাপ لے‎ 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Ap jlications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the 0 form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette’ of the lst September 1955, provided the 
blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 3lst August 1956. 


(4) Particulars and oertificates requiréd.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions 18 fee of Rs, 5 (for each category of posta) in the 
form & a receipted chalan from a Government Treasury or 
the Reserve Bank of India under the head “XXXVI— 
Misceliagneous—Receipts of the Public Servire Commission, 
West Bengal’. Money orders, cheques, etc., in lieu of 
Treasury chalans are not uccepted. Postal orders, how- 
ever, may be accepted from candidates. They should be 
crossed and made payable to ‘The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No application will be 
peat unless accompanied with the requisite application 
ee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be for- 
warded by their superior officers. In no case will the fee 
paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely indi- 
gent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


টি A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence that 
he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g., 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer A a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
ribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gasetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belong- 
ing to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying 
the particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazotted officer or a Momber of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not 
In 8 position to pay the prescribed fee.’’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


اس 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part ot candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officialy of Government will disqualify them 
or appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
Persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


% 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permaneuy 
oF temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 

ia will be rejectod unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or sorvice. 


‘Ss. C, CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission. West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 11th August 1956, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 379 


DIRECTOR OF PUBLICITY 


APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates of all 
communities for temporary appointment as Ctlerk-Tvpists 
in the various Divisional Forest Offices under the ۹۷ 
Directorate in West Bengal in the scale of Rs. 55—3—118 
—4—130 (E.B. after 12th stage) plus usual allowances. 
Qualifications:—Candidates should (i) have either passed 
Matriculation or School Final Examination or its 
equivalent, (ii) hold certificate in typewriting from a 
recognised Institution, (iii) be below 25 years of age on 
15 December 1956, and (iv) have citizenship of India as 
defined in Part 11 of the Constitution of India. Applica- 
tion must be addressed in applicant’s own hundwriting to 
any of the following Divisione! Forest Officers before whom 
it is convenient for the candidate tu appear for interview 
for preliminary selection: (1) Darjeeling, (2) Kalimpong 
(Darjeeling), (3) Kurseong, Dow Hill (Darjeeling), (4) 
Jalpaiguri, (5) Buxa, P.O. Rajabhatkhawa, Jalpaiguri, 
(6) Cooch Behar, (7) 24-Parganas, 35, Gopalnagore Road, 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, (8) Central Krishnagar (Nadia), (9) 
Malda, (10) East Midnapore, Midnapore, (11) West 
Midnapore, Jhargram (Midnapore) (12) Burdwan, (13) 
Bankura, and (14) Birbhum, Suri (Birbhum). Application 
must be submitted by the candidate in person on the 68 
or 22nd August 1956, at 10-30 a.m, to the Divisional 
Forest Officer concerned who will make preliminary selec- 
tion on the same day. The applications must be supported 
by attested copies of certificates from two responsible 

rsons and certificates regarding age, qualifications, ete. 

riginal copies should be produced to inferviewinj officer. 
Selected candidates will be required to appear at a Com- 
petitive Examination to be held on or about September 3, 
1956, at Calcutta, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Midnapore, 
and will be required to deposit a sum of Rs. 5 as Examina~ 
tion fee to the Divisional Forest Officer on the day of 
preliminary selection. Detailed particulars may be had 
rom the nearest Divisional Office. 


I, ABANI BHUSON GHOSAL, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court at Calcutta. 


(587—4) 


MAHADEBDAS CHATTERJEE, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


(688—4) 


1, SYAMA CHARAN BANERJI, M.A... LI.B., intend 
to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High Court. 


(619-4) 


DAYA SHANKAR CHATURVEDI, LL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as uh Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 


(631—4) 


I, MANIK CHANDRA RAY CHOUDHURY, LL.B., 
intend to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 


(632—2) 


VIJAY SINGH BENGANI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 
(646-—4) 


1, ANATH BONDHU PAL, LL.B., intend to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 
(650—A) 


1, ASWINIKUMAR SIL, LL.B., intend to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 
(651—4) 


i, ARUN KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutte. 


(662-—-4) 


SHRI MANORANJAN BASU, .L., intends to be an 
Advovaie of the Caleutta High Court. 
(657---4) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr IT 


চিজ এরি উস সত তাপ পাপ পা তত 7 আত ا‎ 2 গো سی‎ কত ইং : = সপ ےمھو بج ص رسس سس ہہ‎ জে 
LIST OF WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS PUBLISHED DURING THE QUARTER ENDING 31st MARCH 6 


c هو‎ Fe aoe F&F بت‎ ১৩ سم‎ 


~~ 
اح 


৮০৪‏ نسز 
سم ودج 


a 5 WP 6 et m= 


™ جم on 8 wp‏ تہ 


Acts and Ordinances 


Hindi Translation of the Gangasagar Mela Act, 1953 (W. B. Act IV of 1963) -۰ 8 - 
West Bengal Act XXVIII of 1955 (The Calcutta Sports Act of 1955) 7۲ nie -7 an 
Weat Bengal Act XXXII of 1955 [The Calcutta Improvement (Amendment) Act, 1955] oe ক 
Act VIII of 1885 (The Bengal Tenancy Act 1885 as modified up to 15th September 1955) کے‎ ae 


West Bengal Act XLX of 1950 as modified up to lst January 1956 (West Bengal Security Act, 1950) 7 


West Bengal Act XIX of 1954 এ as oe ٠ তি ৪ we 
West Bengal Ordinance I of 1956 [The Jadavpur University (Amendment) Ordinance 1956) a vi 
West Bengal Act XXXIV of 1955 (The Bengal Security (Amendment) Act, 1955) ws - 7 


West Bengal Act IV of 1956 [The Cattle Trespass (West Bengal Amendment) Act 1955) 
West Bengal Act V of 1947 as modified up to lst November 1955 سی‎ West si Premises مو فو‎ and eee 


(Temporary Provision) Act, 1947] - ‘ a 
Weet Bengal Act III of 1956 (The Damodar Valley Corporation (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1955] es 
West Bengal Code, Volume IV ae ae ۰ নী i کہ‎ we 


Manuals and Rules 
The West Benga! Boards Miscellaneous Rutes, 1955 


we 


Fire Service Manual, Part I (corrected up to 5th May 1955) و‎ as ৪ ee a 
Calcutta Improvement Trust Manual (corrected up to November 1951) - +s as es 
West Bengal Fire Service Training Manual oe $ ৪ ক 4৬ 

Union Board Manual, Volume I (in English) (corrected up to March 1954) ane 7۰ xm 

Reports 

Report of the Secondary Education Commission, West Bengal (August-November 1954) 7 
Report on Public Instruction in West Bengal (for 1952-53) oe 7 ee ‘é ٠ 
Annual Report on the Working of Co-operative Societies in West Bengal as on 30th June 2 - 


Administration Report of the Directorate of Commercial Taxes for the year ending the 9186 March 1953 
Administration Report of the Directorate of Commercial Taxes for the year ending the 3181: March 1952 oe 
Annual Administration Report on the Working of Bengal Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1944, for the year 1951-52 


Statistical Publications 
Economic Survey of Small Industries, 1954, district West Dinajpur na ক 7 oe 
Economic Survey of Small Industries, 1954, district Malda cs 
Tribunal Awards 
Awards made by Tribunals for the quarter ending September 1955 we ৪ ক ie 
Awards made by Tribunals for the quarter ending December 1950 ৬ 7 


Finance Department Publications 


6@ eee oe ee ea oe 3 


Tho West Bengal State Rupee, 6 
Civil Budget Estimate for the year 1956-57 


ae ee 4 e@¢ #6 ap 


Periodicals 


Monthly Btatistical Digest, West Bengal, September, Volume VIII of 1955, No. 6 


চিক 2 


Indian Law Reports —Calcutta Series, 1954, Volume II (July to December) 7 - 7 
Labour Review (September-October) 1955 -. 7 ۳ ৪ রি 
Monthly Statistical Digest, West Bengal, Volume VIII, October 1955, No. 7 - 7 5 
Monthly Statistical Digest, Weet Bengal, Volume VIII, November 1955, No. 8 ৪. ay و‎ 
General Index to I. L, R., 1954, Volume I (January to June) 8 7 ea 2% 


Miscellaneous Publications 
یھ تد‎ to be used in the Public Services, 3rd Instalment 7 -7 7 না 
Worst Bengal Legislative Assinbly Proceedings, 12th Session (August-October 1055) oe vs 


ছি 


Prico 
exolusive of 
sales tax and 

forwarding 
charges, 


Rs. a. 


pe 
ہم‎ WW _>ق‎ CS @ WNW WS 
i 


৩ ০০ ৩০ ০০ ہے ٣ے ے‎ ৩:০৩ 


تج 
চস‏ 


19 


৩০৩৩০ শু جج‎ 


ce ১ ক ৩ শু 


سم جظ 
শত 20‏ جي ০০০05‏ 
বসে cS তি Ss‏ 


Parr IT] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, ATIGUST 16, 1056 


১১১১ ১১১১১১১১১১১ a 002১১ ১১১১১১০১১১১ 


13 


14 


WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS PUBLISHED DURING THE QUARTER ENDING 30th JUNE 6 


Acts and Ordinances 
Weat Bongal Act XXXV of 1955 [West Bengal Estates Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1956] 
Weat Bengal Act II of 1956 [Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) (Third Amendment) Act, 1955] 
Wost Bengal Act I of 1956 [West Bengal Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1955] 
Went Bengal Act XXXITI of 1955 (Jadavpur University Act, 1955) - 
West Bengal Act XIX of 1955 [Bengal Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1955, in Bengali} 7 
Weat Bengal ےم‎ V of 1956 [The Bengal Nurses (Amendment) Act, 1956] a aa oa 
Weat Bengal Act VI of 1956 [The Indian Registration (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1955] 
Weat Bengal Act VIT of 1956 (The Jadavpur University (Amendment) Act, 1956} oe 
West Bengal Act X of 1956 (The West Bengal Land Reforms Aot, 1956) ae 


West Bengal Clinical Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1954—in Hindi 


ক رق‎ 


কারা আইন, ১৮০৯৪ (India Act 9 of 1894—in Bengali) ee oe oe oe ae 
Bengal Act IV of 1866 (The Calcutta Police Act, 1866) es ٠ ক 5 
Weat Bengal Act XIT of 1956 (The West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956) ৮৬ ae রী 


West Bengal Act XIII of 1956 [The West Bengal Hindu Social Disabilities Removal (Repealing) Act, 1956] is 


The West Bengal Taxes on entry of goods in 70 Areas রি ee 1956 (West Bengal 55 11 
of 1956) cs 


سب ٠‏ لدب 


West Bengal Act IX of 1956 [The West Bengal Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1956) ٠ 


Be ec 


Miscellaneous Publications 


Weat Bongal District Records, New Series, Burdwan (Letters received, 1788-1802) -۰ 


Bengal Maternity Benefit Rules, 0 ٠ ee ee es we ৮ 
Marketing of Potatoes in West Bengal it o* onde * oe + 
Quarterly Legislation Recorder No. 28, October-December 1956 es os ১ ০ * 


Annual Report on the Survey and Settlement operations in West Bengal for the year ending 30th September 1954 


Annual Report on the Administration of the Factories Act, West Bengal, for the year 1953 


oa رب‎ 


A note on the Developmaent of Small Industrice at 7 a তি 


٭۰ سب 


Report on the Administration of criminal justice in the State of West رس‎ and the 05 of ০2 and 
Nicobar Islands during the year 4 7 ঠা 


٠ 


Awards made by the Tribunals—Quarter —_ March 1954 as ee 


te 4 4 va 


Weat Bongal Legislative Assembly 0ئ‎ (August-October 1956) Volume XII, No. 2 


Woast Bengal Clerkship Examination Question Papers for 1955 7 os 5 ৭ 

A. T. Examination Question Paper, December 1955 “x -۰ ৪‏ ,0 .ظط 

Gradation List of Gazetted Police Officers in West Bengal corrected up to lst November 1955 -۰ ee 

Monthly Statistical Digest, December 1955, Volume ٤۷111, No. 9 7 7٦ ۶7 oe 
Rules 


Rules for the grant of loans under the Low-Income Group Housing Scheme for Co-operative Societies 


পশ্চিষবঙ্গ স্থানীয় অঞ্চলের দ্রব্যাদি পবেশ ٭٭‎ নিয়মাবলী ১৯৫৫ ** ٠ ٠ ٠ 


Reports 
Annual Report on the Health and Population of West Bongal for the year 1952 7 


381 


Price 
exclusive of 
seles tax and 
forwarding 


charges. 


20 


&. p. 


2 


0 


382 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 [Parr IT 
WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS PUBLISHED DURING THE MONTH OF JULY 1056 


Price 
exclusive of 
gales tax and 


forwarding 
charges. 
Acts and Ordinances Ra. a. p. 
1 Bengal Act VI of 1933 (The Bengal Suppression of Immoral Traffic Act, 1933) wie =e ৪8 0 4 0 
2 West Bengal Act VIII of 1956 (The West Bengal Appropriation Act, 1956) ৮৪ iar oe 0 3 0 
3 ہب‎ (অপরাধ) আইন ১৯৫৫ (২২ নং আইন ১৯৫৫) ৮" ٠ ٠ ** 07 
4 বেত্রাধাত বিলোপ আইন ১৯৫৫ 7 7 7 © 0 1 0 
& West Benga! Ordinance No. 111 of 1956 (The West Bengal Bargadars Ordinance, 1956) oh 7 0 1 0 
6 ১১ নং আইন ১৯৫৫ (ভারত সরকার) Quy (সংশোধন) জাইন ১৯৫৫ 7 ٠ 3 7 ص0‎ 
7 West Bengal Act XI of 1956 [The Weat Bengal Molasses Control (Amendment) Act, 1956] 7 i 0 1 0 
Rules 
Election rules framed under the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 oe ee ee ove 010 0 
Miscellaneous Publications 
1 West Bengal Legislative Council Debates, Volume VII of 1955 (Seventh Seesion, August-October, 1955) - 4 8 0 
2 Vital Statistica Special Report of Health Directorate (State Volume, 1954) ۰ on a 31 0 0 
৪ পাঠসূচী প্রাথহিক বিদ্যালয় বুনিয়াদী প্ৰভাগ 7 - one os ٦۰ 040 
4 Quarterly Legislation Recorder No. 29 (January-March, 1956) on on ضت‎ oe 2 4 0 
& Roads for Prosperity oe oe ee = os one oe 1 0 0 
Journal 
Journal of Technology, Volume I, No. I, June 1956 (West Bengal Engineering College) on om § 0 0 


Sales tax and forwarding charges extra 
Available from— 


West Bengal Government Preas, Publication Branch, 38 Gopalnagar Road, Oalcutte-27, 


Part IT] 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of tho following notes of the Calcutta office of 
issue are stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value has been received from the porson/ 

arty whoso names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himself /thomaelves as having 
a right to them is/are warned to communicate at once with 
the undersigned :— 


Register No. Notes No, Value. Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Re. 
W.D. 6/56-57 H/3-518213 100 Shri Ajetali Mondol, 
(Hindi). village Harbati, 
H/3-634862 100 post office Mashunda, 
Hindi) district 24-Parganas. 
/13-433108 1009 
(Hindi). 


W. D. 7/56-57 001 100 Shri G. Mullick 27/6 
(Hindi), Ramkanta Mistry 
Lane, Calcutta. 


W.D. 8/56-57 = H/3-735240 100 Sm. Kesari Dobi, 45 
(Hindi), Forest Road, Howrah 
H/7-951628 100 
রানা 
/9-073878 100 
(non-Hindi), 
H/14-683469 100 
(non-Hindi), 
H /12-854292 100 
(non-Hindi), 
H /4-280025 100 
(Hindi), 


W.D. 9/56-57 H/6-641515 100 Shri Sangat Ram Kak- 
(non-Hindi), ria, 1270 Chandni 


Chowk, Delhi. 


7۰ KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer, 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 28th 
July 19586, 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office of 
18859 are stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of thoir value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himeelf/themselves aa 


নাকি right to them is/are warned to communicate at once 
with the undersigned ১ 


Value. Name and address of 
the applicant, 


Register No, Notes No. 


Re, 


A/51-858715 100 Met. Dhan Kaur, wife 
of late Phula Singh. 
village Mehandipur, 
post office Mukerian, 
district Hoshiarpur. 


۷۷۳۲۳۰, 7 


W.D, 14/56-57 H/17-378108 100 Shri Amar Singh, B.A., 


(Hindi). Managing Officer, 
Civil Secretariat, 

Jullundur City. 
W.D. 15/56-57 H/15-644145 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 
(Hindi). 46/122 Badshahi 

H /0-473534 100 Naka, Kanpur. 

{non Hindi), 

W.D. 16/56-57 1-42 100 Shri Shiw (Narayan 


indi). Jhawar, ¢/o, Hanu- 
H /2-621973 100 man Store, Liswa 
(non-Hindi). Singha Road, post 
office and district 

Cooch Behar, 


P, KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, tho lat 
August 1956. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1966 383 


NOTES 


_ PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office of 
issue are stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown againat the numbors. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himeelf,themeelves as 


having « right to them is/are warned to communicate at once 
with the undersigned سے‎ 


Rogister No. Noteg No. Value. Name and address of 
1 the applicant. 


B/61-919523 100 Shri Asrar Ahmad, vil- 
lage Delair Ganj, post 
office QGotni, district 

A Partabgarh, 


W.D. 10/56-57 


W.D. 11/56-57 H/6-640896 100 Shri Sangam Lal Miard, 


(non-Hindf). 46/122 Badshahi 
A/19-985685 100 Naka, Kanpur, 
B/71-746656 199 


W.D, 12/56-57 ۸/20-80 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 
B/80-184151 100 46/122 Badshahi 
B/6-124586 100 Naka, Kanpur, 
H/11-395463 100 

(non-Hindi). 


KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer.‏ .۶ط 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 30th 
July 1956. 


IN THE MATTER OF THE INDIAN COMPANIES ACT, 
1013, 


AND 


IN THE MATTER OF C. H. DAS & SONS LIMITED 
(IN LIQUIDATION). 


NOTICE is hereby given that a General Meeting of the 
Shareholders and the Creditors of the Company shall be 
held at the office of the Liquidator on Friday, the 14th 
September 1956, at 4-30 p.m. and 5 p.m., respectively, to 
lay before the meetings an account of his acts and deal- 
ings and of the conduct of the winding up during the 
preceding year and a statement in the prescribed form 
containing the prescribed particulars with “respect to the 
position of the winding up. 


ro 


N. N. DAS, F.C.A,, 


Liquidator. 

Dated the 10th August 1956, 8/2 Hastings Street, 
Calcutta-l. 

(658—1) 


×۲ 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1856, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF VIRGINIA 
(INDIA) LTD. 


CIGARETTES 


NOTICE is hereby given that General Meetings of the 
Members and the Creditors of the Company will be held 
at 11 Old Post Office Street, Calcutta-l. on the 8th 
September 1956, at 1 p.m. and 2 p.m., respectively, when 
the Liquidator will lay before the Meetings an account of 
his acts and dealings and of the conduct of the winding- 
up during the year of 9th June 1955 to 8th June 1956 and 
a statement in the prescribed form containing the 
prescribed particulars with respect to the position of the 
Liquidator. 


Virginia Cigarettes (India) Ltd. 
(In Voluntary Liquidation). 

P. N. MUKERJEA, 
Liquidator. 


Calcutta, the 7th July 1956. 
(664—1) 


884 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 10, 1956 


{Parr II 


পপ 


IN THE MATTER OF COMPANIES ACT, 1958, 
AND 
IN THE MATTER OF 1945 TRADERS PRIVATE LTD. 


NOTICE is hereby given that a General Meeting of the 
Members of the Company will be held at 11 Old Post Office 
Street, Calcutta-1, on the 8th September 1956, at 3 p.m. 
when the Liquidator will lay before the Meeting an account 
of his acts and deahngs and of the conduct of the winding- 
up during the year of 5th August 1955 to 4th August 1956 
and a statement in the prescribed form containing the 
prescribed particulars with respect to the position of the 


Liquidator. 0 
1945 Traders Limited 
(In Voluntary Liquidation). 


7 N, MUKERJEA, 
Liquidator. 


(653—1) 

রাত তরি 

iN THE MATTER OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956, 
AND 


IN THE MATTER OF SUGAR DISTRIBUTING 
SYNDICATE LIMITED. 


MEETING OF CREDITORS. 


NOTICE is hereby given that pursuant to section 500 
of the Companies Act, 1956, a meeting of the creditors 
of the abovenamed Company will be held at 161/1 Harrison 
Road, Calcutta, on Friday, the 3lst August 1956, at 3 p.m. 
for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit. passing 
a resolution for the creditors’ voluntary winding up of the 
Company and the appointment of a Liquidator for the 
purposo of such winding up. 


Calcutta, the 7th August 1956. 


By order of the Board, 


8. P. JALAN, 
Director. 


Calcutta, the Ist August 1956, 161/1 Harrison Road. 
(655—1) 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Belvedere have 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1953. The 
revised working hours are specified below:—~ 


Reading Roome— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 
Sundays and holidays—10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 

Lending Section— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—1l0 a.m. to 5 p.m 
Sundays and holidays—1l0 a.m. to 1-80 p.m. 
The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, how- 


ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
year سا‎ 


(1) 07 Day, (ii) Independence Day and (iii) 
ahatma Gandhi's Bi Day. 


Persons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open tw 
any one residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security in cash is essential. 


KESAVAN,‏ .8 .ظط 
Librarian.‏ 


Belvedere, Calcutta-27, the 6th March 1964. 


Registered No. C207 


aoe কাকা শট نے‎ 
aa بی‎ pened রাজ খা 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


PART V—Acts of the Parliament of India assented to by the President 
and Ordinances promulgated by the President 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


Ministry of Law 


The following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 2nd June 1956 and is hereby published 
for general information :— 


ACT NO. XXV OF 1956 


THE ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL 
SCIENCES ACT, 1956 


[2nd June 1956.) 


An Act to provide for the establishment of an All-Indw 
Institute of Medical Sciences. 


Ber it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows :— 


1, (7) This Act may be called the All-India Institute Short title 
of Medical Sciences Act, 1956. and 


010210062006۰ 
ment. 
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central 
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
appoint. 
2. In tHis Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— Definitions. 
(2) “Fund’’ means the fund of the Institute referred 
to in section 16; 
(b) “Governing Body’? means the Governing Body of 
the Institute; 
(c) “Institute’ means the All-India Institute of 
Medical Sciences established under section 3; 
(৫) ‘member’? means a member of the Institute; 
(6) “regulation” means a regulation made by the 
Institute: 


(f) “rule’? means a rule made by the Central Govern- 
ment. 


226 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 
০ ললিতা টিলা নিস হ 
Establish. 3. (1) With effect from such date as the Central 
nee ane Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
tion of tthe اصنڈ مر‎ in this beNalf, there shall be established for — the 
Institute, 9 purposes of this Act an institution to be 00116011176 <All- 
{udia Institute of Medical Sciences. 

(2) The Institute shall be a body corporate Ly the name 
aforesaid having perpetual succession and a common. sen, 
with power to acquire, hold and dispose of property, both 
movable and immovable, and to contract, and shall by the 
said name sue and be sued. 

a 4. The Institute shall consist of the following members.‏ ان 
Institute, namely :—‏ 

(a) the Vice-Chancellor of the Delhi University, es 

officio; 

(b) the Director-General of Wealth Services, Govern. 

ment of India, ex oficio; 

(c) the Director of the Institute, ew officio; 

(d) two representatives of the Central Government to 

be nominated by that Government, one from the 
Ministry of Finance and one from the 7۲ 

۱ 1 ; ' 
of Education; 

(e) five persons of whom one shall be a non-medical 

sclentist representing the Indian Science 
Congress Association, to be nominated by the 
Central Government: 

(f) four representatives of the medical faculties 01 
Indian Universities to be nominated by the 
Central Government in the manner prescribed by 
rules; and 

(/) three members of Parliament of whom two © shall 

be elected from among themselves by the mem- 
bers of the House of the People und one from 
among themselves by the members of the Council 
of States. 

Dec'ara- 5. It is hereby declared that the Institute shall be 

tion of the =n institution of national importance. 

Institute aa 

an institu- 

tion of 

national 

import- 

ance. 

Term of 6. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this section, the 

office of, term of office of a member shall be five years from the date 

and of his nomination or election: 

Vacancies 

among, 

members. 


Provided that the term of office of a member elected 
under clause (y) of section 4 shal] come to an end as soon 
as he ceases to be a member of the House from which he 
was elected. 


Part V| 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 196 


227 


০ ০ কে সাজ ہے ے۔‎ ছল ০৮৯ বি রন উপ শত সপ 
مج‎ চিপ | পল ০ শি নল TITER ও...» aces a 


(4) The term of office of an ex offcio member — shall 
continue su long ag he holds the 01106 in virtue of which he 
17 such a member, 


(3) The term of office of a member nominated or elected 
tu fill a casual vacaney shall continue for the remainder of 
the term of the member in whose place he is nominated or 
elected. 


(4) An out-going member shall, unless the Central 
Government otherwise directs, continue in office until 
adother person 1s nominated ov elected as a member in his 
place, 


(9) An out-goiug member shall be eligible for re-nomi- 
nation or re-election. 


(6) A inember may resign hig office by writing under his 
hand addressed to the Central Govermuent but he shall 
continue in office until his resignation is accepted by that 
Government. 


(7) Vhe manner of filling vacancies among members 
shall be such as may be prescribed by rules. 


7 (2) There shall be a President of the Institute who 
shal] be nominated by the Central Government from among 
the members other than the Dicector of the Institute. 


The President shall exercise such powers and 018-‏ رف 
charge such functions as are laid down in this Act or as‏ 
may be prescribed by rules or regulations.‏ 


8. The President und members shall receive such 
ullowances, if any, from the Institute as may be prescribed 
by rules. 


9, The Institute shall hold its first meeting at such 
time and place as may be appomted by the Central Govern 
ment und shall observe such rules of procedure im regard to 
the transaction of business at the first meeting as may be 
laid down by that Government; and thereafter the Institute 
ghull meet at auch times and places and observe such rules 
ef procedure in regaid to the transaction of business at its 
meetings as may be preseribed by regulations. 


10, (4) There shall be a Governing Body of the Institute 
which shall be constituted by the Institute from among ite 
members in such manner as may be preseribed by regula- 
tions, 


(2) The Governing Body shall be the executive committee 
of the Institute and shall exercise such powers and 
discharge such functions as the Institute may, by regula- 
tions made in this behalf, confer or impose upon it. 


(3) The President of the Institute shall be the Chairman 
of the Governing Body and as Chairman thereof shall 
exercise such powers and discharge such functions as may 
be prescribed by regulations, 


President 
of the 
Institute, 


Allowances 
of Presi- 
dent and 
members. 


Meetings 
of the 
Institute. 


228 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr y 


ہدوت محمد وس دورد سرع سی ہت ےہ نوج و صصح سج جو[ পা endze tues‏ 


Staff of the 
Inatitute. 


L ocation 
of the 
Institute. 


(4) The procedure to be followed in the exercise of its 
powers and Teens of its functions by the Governing 
Body, and the term of office of, and the manner of filling 
vacancies umong, the members of the (10591771110 Body shall 
be such 8৪ may be preseribed by regulations. 


(5) Subject to such control and restrictions as may be 
prescribed ۳ rules, the Institute may constitute as many 
standing committees and as many ad hoc committees as it 
thinks fit for exercising any power or discharging any 
function of the Institute or for inquiring into, or reporting 
or advising upon, any matter which the Institute may refer 
to them. 


(6) A standing committee shall consist exclusively of 
members of the Institute; but an ad hoc committee may 
include persons who are not members of the Institute but 
the number of such persons shall not exceed one-half of its 
total membership. 


(7) The Chairman and members of the Governing Body 
and the Chairman and members of a standing committee or 
an ad hoc committee shall receive such allowances, if any, 
us may be prescribed by regulations, 


11, (1) There shall be a chief executive officer of the 
Institute who shall be designated as the Director of the 
Institute and shall, subject to such rules as may be made 
2 the Central Government in this behalf, be appointed by 
the Institute : 


Provided that the first Director of the Institute shall be 
appointed by the Central Government. 


(2) The Director shall act as the Secretary to the Insti- 
tute as well ag the (10৮61011717 Body. 


(3) The Director shall exercise such powers and dis- 
charge such functions as may be prescribed by regulations 
or as may be delegated to him by the Institute or the 
President of the Institute or by the Governing Body or the 
Chairman of the Governing Body. 


(4) Subject to such rules as may be made by the Central 
Government in this behalf, the Institute may appoint such 
number of other officers and employees as may be necessary 
for the exercise of its powers and dischurge of its functions 


And may determine the designations and = grades of such 


other officers and employees. 


(3) The Director and other officers and employees of the 
Institute shall be entitled tu such salary and allowances 
and shall be governed by such conditions of service in res- 
pect of leave, pension, provident fund and other mattera as 
may be prescribed by regulations made in this behalf. 


12, The Institute shall be located in New Delhi. 


Parr ۷| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1998 229 
een mercer a NR a a EP ROL RR LR NC تک تسس کے ےس‎ TTY 


13. The objects of the Institute, ~hall be— a i 
Institute. 
(a) to develop paterns of teaclting in undergraduate 
and postgraduate medical education in all its 
branches so as (0 demonstrate a bigh standard 
of medical education to all medical colleges and 
other allied instituticns in India; 


() to bring together in one place educational facilities 
of the highest order for the training ا1ص‎ 
personnel in all important branches of health 
activity; and 


(c) ما‎ attain self-sufficiency in post-graduate medical 
education, 


14. With a view to the promotion of the objects speci- Functions 


hed in section 13, the Institute may— পানি 


(a) provide for undergraduate and postgraduate teach- 
ing in the science of modern medicine and other 
allied sciences, including physical and biological 
sciences; 


(9) provide facilities for research in the various 
branches of such sciences; 


(c) provide for the teaching of humanities in the under- 
graduate courses; 


(4) conduct experiments in new methods of medical 
education, both undergraduate and postgraduate, 
in order to arrive at satisfactory standards of 
such education; 


(e) prescribe courses and curricula for both under- 
graduate and postgraduate studies; 


notwithstanding anything contained in any other‏ رز 
law for the time being in force, establish and‏ 
maintain—‏ 


(4) one or more medical colleges with different 
departments, including a department ০01 
preventive and social medicine, sufficiently 
staffed and equipped to undertake not only 
undergraduate medical education but 919 
postgraduate medical education in different 
subjects ; 

(tt) one or more well-equipped hospitals; 

(111) a dental college with such institutional facilities 
for the practice of dentistry and for the 


practical training of students 8৪ may be 
necessary; 


(1v) a nureing college sufficiently stafted and 
চিল for the training of nurees; 


230 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 6 [Part ৮ 


টিউন‏ سی 
جر ے বু পন তত ee (বি অজ ক‏ 


(7) 10] and ugban health organisations which will 
form centres for the field traiming of 0106 
medical, dental and nursing students of ٣۴۶ 
Institute as well as for research into commu- 
nity health problems; and 


(07) other institutions for the training of diferent 
types oof health workers, such 0৭ physio- 
therapists, occupational therapists and medical 
technicians of various kinds; 


(9) train teachers for the different medical colleges im 
India ; 


(h) hold) examinations and = grant such degrees, 
diplomas and other academic distinctions and 
titles in undergraduate and postyraduate medi- 
cal education as may be laid down in the 
regulations; 


(1) institute, and appoint persons to, professorships, 
readerships, leeturerships and posts of any 
description in accordance with regulations ; 


(/) receive grants from the Government and gifts, 
donations, benefactions, bequests and transfers of 
properties, both movable and immovable, trom 
donors, benefactors, testators or transferors, 0৭ 
the case may be; 


(k) deal with any property belonging to, or vested in, 
the Institute in any manner which is considered 
necessary for promoting the objects specified in 
section 13; 


temand and receive such fees and other charges as‏ زا)۔ 
may be prescribed by regulations;‏ 


(m) do all such other acts and things as may _ be 
necessary to further the objects specified in 
section 1). 


Payment 15. The Central Government may, under appropriation 
0س‎ made by Parhament by law سا‎ this behalf, pay to the 


Institute in each financial year such sums of money and in 
such manner as may be considered necessary by that Gov- 
ernment for the exercise of its powers and discharge of its 
functions under this Act, 


Fund of 16,.. (7) The Institute shal] maintain a Fund to which 
the | shall be credited— 
Institute. 


(a) all moneys provided by the Central Government; 
(b) all fees and other charges received by the Institute; 


(c) all moneys received by the Institute by way of 
grants, donations, benefactions bequests 
or transfers; and 


(d) all moneys received by the Institute in any other 
manner or from apy other source. 


Pant VI THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 16, 1956 231 
সি... 


(2) All moneys credited to the fund shall be deposited 
in such banks or invested in such yanver as the 6 
may, with the approval of ithe Central (rovernment, 
deeide. 

(3) The Fund shall be applied towards meeting — the 
expenses of the Institute including expenses meurred in 


the exercise of its powers ond discharge of ۱۱١ functions 
under section 14. 


17, The institute shall prepare in such form and at Budget 
such time every year as may be preserihed لزا‎ rules ئ۲‎ of the 
budget in respect of the financial year next ensuing [stitute. 
showing the estimated receipts and expenditure of — the 
fnustitute and shall forward to the Central Goverument 
such number of copies thereof as may be preseribed 008 
rules, 


18. (7) The Institute shall maintain proper accounts নী 
and other relevant records and prepare an annuul state. ۹۵04 ৪০0৮ 
ment of accounts meluding the balance-sheet in such form 
us the Central Government may by rules preseribe رر‎ 
سا‎ with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of 
India. 


(2) The accounts of the Institute shall be audited — by 
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and any 
expenditure incurred by him in connection with such audit 
shall be payable by the 11715111019 to the Comptroller and 
Auditor-General of Indta. 


(3) The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India and 
any person appointed by 10100) in connection with the audit 
of the accounts of the ডি shall have the same rights, 
privieges and authority in connection with such audit as 
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has in con- 
nection with the audit of the Government accounts and, in 
particular, shall have the right to demand the production 
of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other documents 
nid papers and to inspect the offices of the Institute as well 
as of the institutions established and maintained by it. 


(4) The accounts of the Institute as certified by the 
jomptroller and Auditor-General of India or any other 
person appointed by him in his behalf together with the 
audit report thereon shall be forwarded annually to the 
Central Government and that Government shall cause the 
same to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 


19. The Institute shall prepare for every year a report Annual 
of its activities during that year and submit the report to report. 
the Central Government in such form and on or before 
such date as may be prescribed by rules and a copy of this 
report shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament 
within one month of its receipt, 


20. (/) The Institute shall constitute for the benefit of pension 
its officers, teachers and other employees in such manner and_ 
and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by Provident 
regulations, such pension und provident funds as it may 1০৮7 
deem fit. 


.- عدہ অল‏ ہے وکے۔.یڈگاھے ‏ ہے صصی تب ۔کمحوی হা‏ 


Authenti. 
cation of 


the orders 


and ins- 


Institute. 


Acts and 
Proceed- 


ings not to 


be invali- 
dated by 


Vacancies, 


etc. 


Recogni- 
tion of 
medical 
qualifica- 
tions 
gcanted 
by the 
Institute. 


Grant of 
medical 
degrees, 


diplomas, 
etc., by the 


Institute. 


Control by 


Central 
Govern- 
ment. 


Disputes 
between 
the 
Institute 
and the 
Central 
Govern- 
ment. 


Returns 


and infor- 


mation. 


Power to 


make rules. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


(2) Where any such’ pension or provident fund has been 
constituted, the Central Government may declare that the 
provisions of the Provident Funds Act, 1925, shall apply 
to such fund as if it were a (tovernment provident fund. 


21. All orders and decisions of the Institute shall be 
authenticated by the signature of the President or any 
other member authorised by the Institute in this behalf 
and all other instruments shall be authenticated ما‎ the 
signature of the Director or any other officer of the 
Institute authorised in like manner in this behalf, 


22. No act done or proceeding taken by the Institute, 
Governing Body or any standing or ad hoc committee under 
this Act shall be questioned on the ground merely of the 
existence of any vacancy in, or defect in the , constitution 
of, the Institute, Governing Body or such standing or ad 
hee committee. 


23. Notwithstanding anything contained سد‎ the 
Indian Medical Council Act, 1933, the medical degrees and 
diplomas granted by the Institute under this Act shall be 
recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of that 
Act and shal] be deemed to be included in the First 
Schedule to that Act. 


24. Notwithstanding anything contained in the 
other law for the time being im force, the Institute shal] 
have power to grant medical degrees, diplomas and other 
academic distinctions and titles under this Act. 


25. The Institute shall carry out such directions as may 
be issued to it from time to time by the Central Govern- 
ment for the efficient administration of this Act. 


26. If in, or in connection with, the exercise of 1 
powers and discharge of its functions by the Institute 
under this Act, any dispute arises between the Institute 
and the Central Government, the decision of the Central 
(Jovernment on such dispute shall be final. 


27. The Institute shall furnish to the Central Govern- 
ment such reports, returns and other information as that 
Government may require from time to time. 


28. (1) The Central Government, after consultation 
with the Institute, may by notification in the Official 
Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act: 


Provided that consultation with the Institute shall not 
be necessary on the first occasion of the making of rules 
under this section, but the Central Government shall take 
into consideration any suggestions which the Institute may 
make in relation to the amendment of such rules after they 
are made. 


[Parr ٢ 


اسیو 


19 of 1095. 


27 of 1933, 


PART ۳ 


11117 CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 6 


॥ Stet ক যারা مس‎ ‘ তক وی ہس‎ পপ ৩ 
عو ٗٛٗڈوسیححسم٭سمسیمسسمسیی با‎ | অপ তা স্পা اسحصتاضب سیب 00 00 00 50099000600 اس سم ہس سمسمحمممسدىم میم شدصحمویفسمحس‎ 


(4) سا‎ particular and without, prejudice to ৩ 
generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide 
for all or any of the following matters, namely :— 


(a) the manner of nomination of members under 
clause (f) of section 4; 


(4) the control and restrictions in relation to the consti- 
tution of standing and ad hoc committee under 
sub-section (5) of section 10; 


(¢) the conditions of service of, the procedure to be 
followed by, and the manner of filling vacancies 
among, members of the Institute; 


(d) the powers and functions to be exercised and dis- 
charged by the President of the Institute; 


(6) the allowances, if any, to be paid to the President 
und members of the Institute; 


(f) the number of officers and employees that may be 
appointed by the Lustitute and the manner of 
such appointment; 


(7) the form in which and the time at which the 
budget and reports shall be prepared by the 
Institute and the number of copies thereof to be 
forwarded to the Central Government ; 


(4) the form and manner in which returns and infor- 
mation are to be furnished by the Institute to 
the Central Government; 


(1) any other matter which has to be or may be pres- 
cribed by rules. 


(3) All rules made under this section shall, as soon as 
may be after they are made, be laid before both Houses of 
Parliament. 


29. (J) The Institute may, with the previous approval] 
of the Central Government, make regulations consistent 
with this Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out 
the purposes of this Act, and without prejudire to the 
generality of this power, such regulations may provide 
for—~ 


(a) the summoning and holding of meetings other than 
the first meeting, of the Institute, the time and 
place where such meetings are to be held, the 
conduct of business at such meetings and the 
number of members necessary to form a quorum; 


(b) the manner of constituting the Governing Body 
wud standing and ad hoc committees, the terms 
of 01006 of, and the manner of filling vacancies 
among, the members of, the Governing Body 
and standing and ad hoc committees; 


(c) the powers and functions to be exercised and 018- 
charged by the President of the Institute and 
the Chairman of the Governing Body; 


233 


Power to 
make rogu- 


lations. 


234 TK QALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1966 | Parr 
পাপা তপতি পতি বিন ০০৯৩০ ৩১২ meee oe { 1 


)/( the 01105/811085) if any, to be paid to the Chairman 
and the members of the Governing Body and of 
stunding ‘and ad Adc committees; 


(6) the procedure to be followed by the Governing 
Body and standing and ad hoe committees in the 
ps, Bee of their business, exercise of their 
powers and «discharge of their functions; 


(f) the tenure of office, salaries and allowances and 
other conditions of service of the Director and 
other officers and employees of the Institute 
including teachers appoimted by the Institute; 


(/) the powers and duties of the Chairman of the 
(toverning Body; 


(h) the powers and duties of the Director and other 
otticers and employees of the Inatitute; 


(7) the management of the properties of the 10141160667 


(7) the degrees, diplomas and other academic distine- 
tions and titles which may be granted by the 
Institute; 


(/) the professorships, readerships, lecturerships and 
other posts which may be instituted and persons 
who may be appointed to such professorships, 
readerships, lecturerships and other posts; 


(1) the fees and other charges which may be demanded 
and received by the Institute; 


dm) -the manner.in which, und the conditions subject to 
which, pension and provident funds may be 
constituted for the و‎ of officers, teachers 
and other employees of the Institute: 


(n) any other matler for which under this Act provi- 
sions may be made by regulations. 


(2) Until the Institute is established under this Act, 
any regulation which may be made under sub-section 7 
may be made by the Central Government; and any regula- 
tion so made may be altered or rescinded by the Institute 
in exercise of its powers under sub-section (7), 


K. Y. BHANDARKAR, Secy. 


Registered No. C207 No. 33 of 1956 


Gazette 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


CONTENTS: 
Pages. 
Weekly Weathor and Crop Report of West 
Bengal for the week ending the 2nd 
August 1956 oe 7 -. 518-4 
Calcutta Improvement Trust Notice .ےے‎ 5156—516 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 2nd August 1956. 
Summary.-—During the week under report thore was rainfall in thirty-one subdivisions. The weather conditions were unfavourable 
in seven eubdivisions. Transplantation of Aman continued in somo subdivisions. 


The condition of the standing crop was on the whole fair. The fodder was reported to be insufficient in eightoen subdivisions 
and cuattle-disease was reported from four subdivisions. 


The wagos of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight during the week under report. 


Tote» The minimum 
rainfall oe of coarse 


Oharacter of Stage and progress of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder Catti Labour 
Districts and during fice in seers per jweather and it@ egricultural opera- seed, ifany. thestanding ovadition. কক সপ ae এপ 
subdivisions. 8 rupees. effect on the 61009, crops 
wek, সস পস standing 9200৭ (estimated 
This Pre outturn). ٠ 
weeky ‘ week. 
1 2 ae) xd» 44+ 5 6 ۲ 8 9 10 
24-Parganas. 
2:62 ৪ 2 Favourable .. Transplantation a Fair -» Insufficient 7 
Sadar handel 1 cien No report Rs. 1-8. 
Diamond Harbour ee 8 2 Ditto ae ৪৯৯ ১৬ ৮৪ ee we 2ھ"‎ 
10808080000 ہت‎ -۰ 2 2 Ditto wa ৮77৭ Scarce .. Fair -+ Insufficient Noreport .. Ra. 2. 
7 ৪ 
Barasot 7 2-02 2 2 Ditto ke Ditto -» Suihloient .. Not good .. Ditto .. Reported .. Ba. 1-132, 
Basirhat .. O70 2 2 Ditto .. Field prepara- Ditto .. as Ditto .. Noreport .. Re. ,ےا‎ 
tion contl- 
nued, 
Bongaon 8 1:118 1166 1 16/16 Ditto .. Transplantation Ditto ,. Fair : Ditto ১, Ditto .. Ra لے‎ 
of Aman oon- 
tinued. 
Nadia. 
Badar ৬৪ 2:24 118/16 114/16 Unfavourabie পান নিব Sufficient .. ت7‎ Sufficiont .. Noreport .. Re. 1-12, normal. 
operation oon- 
tinued. 
Ranaghat oa 0°46 118/16 114/16 Favourable .. 00 Ditto .. Fair ٠. Insufficient Ditto .. Rs. 1-8. 
going on. 
Murshidabad. 
Sadar 7 0:35 114/16 113/16 Unfavourablo ماس‎ pro- Scarce -- Notgood .. Normal .. Noreport .. Ra. 1-12 
grossing. 
Lalbagh ۰ 0۰11 115/16 1 16/16 Ditto .. Aman trans Suffictent . Fair .. Sufficient .. Ditto .. Rs. 4٭ا‎ 
plantation 
continued. 
Kandi .. 29 32/16 21/16 Favourable .. Aman trans Ditto... 7 Insufficient Ditto... Ra. 1-8. 
plantation 
about com- 
pleted. 
Jangipur 4 7 112/16 118/16 Unfavourable Amen 52 Ditto .. Fair .» Normal... Ditto .. Ra. 1-8, normal. 
ntation 
outinued. 
Burdwan. 
88484 he a» 116/16 115/16 Favourable ., AION we Suficiont .. Fair .+ Insufficient Noroport .. Ras. 1-12, normal. 
plantation 
continued. 
Asansol a 7 22/16 22/16 Unfavourablo Ploughing for Ditto ২, Do. 7 Ditto. [010৮০ ., Ra, 1-8 
Aman stop- 
: d due 1 
7 rought. 
Katwa 4 1:80 118/16 115/16 Favourablo .. Aman — trana- Ditto... Do, ~~ Ditto. Ditto .. Ba. 2-8. 
plantation 
continued. 


Kalna »» 0۰97 11410 6 rr ১৯৮ ٠ - = we ome 


514 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUITA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


« 


a a sa سس ےس‎ 


and‏ و ایک ار 
subdivisions.‏ 


i 
Birbhum. 
Sadar eee 


Rampurhat.. 


Bankura. 
Sadar 


Vishnupur 7 


Midnapere. 
Badar (Nartk) .. 


Sadar (South) .. 
Contai 
Tamluk 5 


Ghatal -۰ 
۲وت3‎ টি 


Heoghly. 
Sadar 


Serampore a 
Atambagh কর 
Chandernagore 


Howrah. 
Sadar کن‎ 
VUluberia an 


dalpaigeri. 
Sadar 7 


007ھ 


oe 


Darjeetiag. 
Sadar নু 


Kurseong 


vy 


ae 


Siliguri 
Kalimpong 7 


Weat Dinalper. 
Sadar in 


Moder- 


° 


4:39 


0:70 


8 40 


5-86 


2-65 


oe” 
و ٭‎ 


ee 


The minimum 
oe of coarse Character of Stage and progress of SBcaroity ¢ of Se امرف سم‎ Fodder 
7 in seers per weatherandita agricultural 01021 seed, Many. thestanding - condition, 
rupee. effeot on tiona. 00108 سب‎ * 
ں-سمس--سسےضسسسسمسپچي‎ atanding Crops. 7 
This Previous out > 
week. week, ক. 
3(@), 8৯) 4 + 6 7. 8 
٠ bal 
114/16 114/16 Favourable .. Aman  trans- Sauffclest .. Vair .. ¢ ی0‎ ٦ 
plantation « 
continaed. ۱ 
115/16 185/16 Unfavourable Ditto .. টি .. Do. Sufftclent ... 
21/18 21/16 Favourable .. Antan ans اسٹاسنتانیچت‎ Yair Sufficient ., 
planvatdien 
continued. 
2 21/16 Cloudy -۰ Ditto ve Dito ہت‎ Do. Ditto 
21/16 21/16 er Ama trans- Sufficjent .. Fair .-» Sufficient ہے‎ 
plantation 
continued. 
21/18 22/16 emus ree کت‎ oe ae 
115/16 116/16 Seasonable ات اڈ و وا‎ .. Fatr ٠.٠ 6 
2 2 Favoewradle .. Aman trans- ee in Ditto... 
plantation 
continued. 
2 2 Ditto on Ditto 7 নে Gloomy .. Sufficient .. 
21/16 21/16 Ditto ae Ditto a নং or Ditto 
۰ سج‎ aa 
112/16 112/16 Favourable Aman trans a ae Insufficient 
: plantation 
continmed. 
1122/16 112/16 Ditto ক Ditto .. Sufficient Fair : Ditto... 
116/16 N. RK. Unfavourable Ditto . Ditto ‘ Do, . Suficiont 
112/16 112/16 Favourable .. Ditto en Ditto সু Po. .. 0 
115/16 1 15/16 ও 7 mi و‎ “x 
115/16 686 -۰ er ae 7 হি 
aw 
118/16 113/16 Seasonable .. Sowing of Aman a 
seeds going 
on. 
114/16 1 14/16 সর Aman trans- کت‎ 7 Sufficient .. 
plantation 
continued. 
110/16 110/16 Fair .. Aman tzans- Sufficient .. Fair Buficiont .. 
Plantation 
continued. 
112/16 112/16 Wet Harvesting of 1৮৮) ০, Do., a Ditto. 
summer voge- 
table nearly 
7 compieted. 
2 2 eee oe oe | ee een 0 
115/16 114/16 Favourable .. Millet trans- Sufficient .. Fair .. Sufficient 
সপ 
118/16 413/16 Favourable . Aman i trans- Sufficiept .. ۲۰ .. dnsufficient 
plantation 
continued, 
114/16 114/16 Favourable Aman trans- Sufficient Fair .. Sudicient 
plantation 
continued. 
118/16 118/16 ا‎ Ditto pe Ditto A Do. . 7 Ditto 
1 14/16 1 14/16 eee one oe 2.00 ee 
N.R. 114/16 Favourable Aman trans- Swihoiewt -.; Fair +» 80180197708 .. 
10190196107) 
continued, 
144/16 115/16 Ditto ee Ditto ; Ditto Do. roe Ditto... 
2 3 15/16 کے وھ"‎ i 2 7 
1 14/16 114/36 Favourable .. Aman  trans- 80) Fair Insufficient 
plantation 2 
۰ continued. 
N.B.—No report. ; 


Calcutta, the 8th August 1956. 


Cattle. Labour wages 


disease. without food, 

9 10 
Reperted .. Rs. 1-8, normal, 
টু Ra. 1-10, 

Noreport .. 188, 1-8, 

Ditto Ra. 1-4, normal, 
No report ٠ Rs. 1-8, normal, 
ee ں0‎ ٠ى‎ ন্ট 

Reported ০, وو‎ 

No report oe Ra, 1-12, high. 

Ditto Ra. 1-8, low. 
Ditto Bs. 1-3, normal. 
۰ 
No report .. Rs. 1-10. 
Ditto » Ka. 1-10. 
Ditto .. Ba. i, wigh. 
Ditto .. Re. 1-4, nopmal, 
۰٠ a দি ۴ 4 
Noreport .. Re. 2. 
cag” 
Ditto .. Ra. 2. 
No report .. Re. 2 
Ditto .» Ba, 2 

Noreport .. Rs. 2, tigh. 
Reported Rs. 1-4. 

«No report Ks. 1-10, normal, 
- Ditto ۔‎ Res, 2, normal. 
No report .. Ba, 1-12, high. 

Ditto Rs. 2-8 
Noreport .. Ra. 2. 


9. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengs!. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETEER, AUGUST 16,-1056 612 
নব লট 
CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT TRUST 


NOTICE 
Calcutta, the 6th August 1956. 


Notice is hereby” given under section 78C of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act that the’ following is the list of objectors who have not accepted the 
betterment fees fixed by the Board in respect of Scheme No. LIL (Seuth 
Road, Kntally, to Middle Road, Entally) سس‎ 


(1) Shri Makhan Lal Ghosh, 19, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road—in respect 
of 143B, Ananda Palit Road. 


(2) Shri Jogendra Nath Ghosh (deceased) succeeded by Shri Baidya 
Nath Ghosh, Shri Probodh Chandra Ghosh, Shri Profulla Kumar 
Ghosh, Shri Debendra Nath Ghosh and Shri Rash Behari Ghosh, 
minors and guardian mothers Sm. Paddamoni Dasi and Sm. 
Bhabusundarl Dasi, 20, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road, Calcutta— 
in respect of 149, Ananda Palit Road. 


ae 
(3) Shri Indra Narayan Deb, Shri Sachindra Narayan Deb, Sm. 
Sontosh Bala Deb, Shri Dhirendra Narayan Deb, Sm. Sovarani. 
Deb, Shri Tapendra Narayan Deb and Shri Ranendra Narayan 
Deb, 7C, Dehi Entully Road, Calcutta—in respect of 11% 
(portion) Ananda Palit Road. 


(4) Shri Sailendra Nath Roy Chowdhury, Shri Satyendra Nath 
Roy Chowdhury and Shri Sachindra Nath Roy Chowdhury, 
present heirs of Sm. Sontosh Bala Dasi (deceased), all of the 
premises—in respect of 88B, Ananda Palit Road. 


(5) Sm. Nirmala Bala Dey, wife of late Ramanath Dey of the premi- 
ses—in respect of 70A, Ananda Palit Road. 


(6) Sm. Sarashi Bala Biswas of 21A, Middle Koad, Entally—in res- 
pect of 70K, Ananda Palit Road. 


(7) Estate Kritarthamoyee Dasi, 87, Deb Lane, Calcutta-—in respect 
of 560A, Ananda Palit Road. 


(8) Shri Sailendra Nath Das, Shri Dulal Chandra Das, Shri Tulsi 
Charan Das, Shri Gopi Krishna Das, Shri Kali Kumar Das and 
Shri Rathindra Nath Das (minor), represented by his mother 
Sm. Provabati Dasi, all of the premises—in respect of 44, 
Ananda Palit Road. 


(9) Shri Bejoy Kumar Mukherjee, Shri Sudhir Kumar Mukherjee, 
heirs of late Jitendra Nath Mukherjee of the premises—in res- 
pect of 4, Deb Lane. 


(10) Sm. Niharika Nandy, 15, Deb Lane—in respect of 19, Deb Lame. 


(11) Shri Pramatha Nath Basu, Shri Rabindra Nath Basu, Shri 
Amarendra Nath Basu and Sm. Protivamoyee Basu, wife of 
Shri Pramatha Nath Basu, 96, Beltola Road, Calcutta—in res- 
pect of 29, Deb Lane. 


(12) ০754 Dasi of 87, Deb Lane—in respect of 55, Deb 
ne. 


(18) Shri Atul Chandra Sarkar (Receiver) of 9813, Musalmanpara Lane, 
present address—C/o. Standard Book House, 1/1/1B, Bankim 
Chatterji Street, Calcutta-12, and Shri Sankar Prasad Das, Office 
of the Deputy Accountant-General, Posts and Telegraphs 
Department, 7, Koilaghat Street, Calcutta—in respect of 81, 
Deb Lane. 


(14) Estate Kritharthamoyee Dasi of the premises—in respect of 87, 
Deb Lane. 


(18) Sm. Provabati Dasi of the premises—in respect of 91, Deb Lane. 
(16) Sm. Chandi Dassi Dutta of the premises—in respect of 93, Deb 


Lane. 
(17) Shri Woadhub Ch. Mallik of the premises—in respect of 175, 
’ Sambbha Babu Lane. . পালি 


(18). Shri Nagendra Krishna Das and brothers of 248, Dr. Suresh 
Sarkar Road, Calcutta. Sha D. C. Dutt, Solicitor, 8, Old Post 
(0006৮ Street, Calcutta, representing Receiver and Commissioner 
of partition Shri S. Sinha in the High Court Suit No. 3447 of 
1949, Bimal Krishna Das versus Ramendra Krishna Das and 
00106818৭10 respect of 29, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road. 


(19) Estate Dr. Suregh Ch. Sarkar of 2/1, Deb Tane, Mrs. 8. C. Sarkar, 
Dr. S. .کا‎ Sar and Dr. N. K. Sarkar—in respect of 31, 
Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road. 


516 SUPPLEMENT~TU THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 16, 1956 


(20) Sk. ভা Yaseen, 6, Misiry Rara Taps, Caloutta—in respect 
of 31/1A, and 31/18, Dr, Suresh Shrkar Road. 


(21) an খা ddin, Top Floor, 67, Ezra Street, Calcutta-l—in 
'  respett, of 32) Dy. Suresh Sarkar Road. 


(22). Sha 1 Punch pes Bardhan, 8, Srimanta De Lane—in_ respect .of 
Suresh Sarkar Road. 


(23) تا‎ Gopal Bardhan, 3, Srimanta De Lane—in respect of 
33/1, Dr. Suresh Sarkar Road. 


পা 


Any person whose name does not appear in the list and who claims the 
right of being included in the list and any person who considers that his/ 
her name should be omitted from the list, may submit an application to 
thé Chairman by the 7th September next to have his /her name inserted or 
07) from the list, as the case may be. The Chairman shall decide al! 
such applications and hia decision shall be final. 


S. K. GUPTA, Chairman. 


রা... 
Printed and published by the Supermntendent, Government Printing. a ০) 
৮ Weat Bengal Government Pree, Alipore, on the | 16th August, 1 


Registered No. C207 


0)0 


No. 4901) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTICES 
Birbhum.—No. 1496421,.A.(P.W.).—16th August 


1956.—Whereas 0.72 of an acre, more or less, vi 
land situated in or near the villages of Niachinta- 
pur and 2 others, described below, has been requi- 
sitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
pig Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) 

t, 1948, by the person authorised under the said 
section 901) for the purpose of providing facilities 
for irrigation and drainage, nainely, for Distribu- 
tary No. 2 of Dwarka Brahmani Branch Canal 
(old), new Distributa No. 6 of Dwarka 
Brahmani Main Cana in connection with 
Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gover- 
nur acquires such land being required for a public 
purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice 18 given, under the provision of aub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 


1999 


(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
Bengal Act II of 1948), 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inkpected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition. Officer, Bir- 
Lhum, as well as in that of the Executive Engi- 
neer, Mayurakshi North Canals Division, Rampur- 
hat, Birbhum. 


Description of iand 
Mauza Nischintapur, jurisdiction list No. 
police-station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plots in part-—298, 299, 300, 
302, 303, 304, 907 and 308. 
Mauza Ramrampur, jurisdiction list No. 
police-station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 


1948 (West 
to all whom it muy 


81, 


79, 


00 survey plots in part—267, 269 and 


Mauza Kusumba, jurisdiction list No. 85, police- 
station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plots in part-——2289, 2290, 2291, 
2294, 3268, 3264, 3270, 3273, 3285, 3287, 4288, 
3291, 3292, 3309 and 3596. 


2009 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 16, 1956 


[Parr I 


a ee, a 
fetes 
سد‎ 


Murshidabad. — No. 143641.A.(P.W.). — 16th 
August 1956.—Whereas 20.325 acres, more or 
less, of land’ situated in or near the villages of 
- Hamidhati-Pilkhandi and 3 others, deseribed 
below, have been requisitjoned under sub-section 
(1) of section 3 of the West Bengul Land (Requi- 
sition and Acquisition) Aet, 1948, by the person 
authorised under the said section (1) for the pur- 
pose of providing farilities for irrigution and 
drainage. namely, for excavation of Distributary 
No. 25 Wx. Kepai South Main Canal from chain- 
age 0 to chainage 155.0 in connection with 
Mayurakshi Reservoir, Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act, the Gover- 
nor acquires such land being required for a public 
purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice‘is given, under the provision of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Reyguisition, and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 


A*plan of “the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of land 


(1) Mauza Hamidhati-Pilkhandi, jurisdiction list No. 
103, police-station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—1100 and 1124. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1097, I161, 1102, 
1103, 1123, 1125, 1126, 1127, 1128, 1133, 1143, 1152, 
1721, 1741, 1743, 1744, 1745, 1746, 1747, 1748, 1749, 
1750, 1751, 1752, 1756, 1757, 1758, 1795, 1796 and 
1797. 


(2) Mauza Talibpur, jurisdiction list No. 107, police. 
station Bharatpur, distriot Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1714, 1715, 1716, 
1717, 1721, 1722, 1723, 1724, 1725; 1726, 1727, 1728, 
1729, 1887, 1888, 1889, 1890, 6679, 6680, 6৪1 6689, 
6690, 6701, 6707, 6708, 6700, 6710, 68935, 6704, 6797, 
6798, 6799, 680], 6802, 6804, 6820, -GR26,-68e41, 6882, 
6886, 6887, G88, 6800, 68975 680%, 689%, 6896, 6907, 
6913, 6919, 6920, 6921, 726], 7262, 7283, 7364, 7265, 
7266, 7267, 7269, 7279, 7280, 7287, 7288, T2802, 7290 
7201, 7292, 7293, 7296, 7297, 7298, 7299.°7362, 7363, 
7365, 7366, 7367, 7387, 7432, 7433, 7434, 7435, 7445, 
7446, 7447, 7453, 7454, 7461, 7473, 7474, 747 7476, 
7477, 7478, 7479, 7645, 7646, 7647, 9203, 9617, * 9633, 
12102, 12103, 12104, 12105, 12112, 12121, 12122, 12123, 
12134, 12135, 12136, 12137, 12139, 12140, 12141, 13142, 
12147, 12153, 12154, 12155, 12156 and 12157. 

i“ wile ow 
(3) Mauza Purbagram, jurisdiction list No. 108, police. 
station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—422, 985, 986, 088, 
989, 990, 991, 992, 1065, 1067, 1068, 1069, 1133, 1134, 
1136, 1138, 1139, 1140, 1144, 1145, 1146, 1147, 1157, 
1159, 1160, 1161, 1167, 1176, 1177, 1178 and 12). 


(4) Mauza MHatpilkhandi, jurisdiction list No. 109, 
police-station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 

Cadastral survey plot in full—1175. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—598, 900, 930, 23, 
924, 925, 926, 934, 935, 936, 937, 938, 940, 941, 042, 
960, 961, 962, 968, 969, 988, 989, 1024, 1025; 4026, 
1027, 1028, 1029, 1031, 1064, 1065, 1066, 1079, 1168, 
1169, 1171, 1173, 1174, 1176, 1193, 1194, 1196, 1197, 
1198, 1199, 1202, 1203, 1206, 1207, 1208, 1220, 1221, 
1222, 1223, 1226, 1226, 1230, 1262, 1300 and 1303. 


By order of the Governor, 
P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
: at West Bongal Government Prees, Alipore, on the 16th August 1956. 


Registered No. C207 No. 41101) 


0)3 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SEP ও চিজ مہو دشرموہشہچی۔ ہے‎ ERIN, 7 عیب قات یرہ می۔رسمس٘سمسے‎ আটা লিজার ওনার سم نف‎ elite 
ےب سا‎ A OS er ONE iy. ia AE 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 1056 


ee রণ কি ৮. এ شس‎ ফেরার ৮2 লগে. রর | পলা জনক" 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Weg, 
Bengal, the High Court, Government ‘Treasury, etc. 


alas gam AG‏ عم وم بے ONG‏ ےن পলক বা am তের এজন...‏ سد 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BRNGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Reforms, 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 143661..Ref.—16th August 1956-6 


following draft of amendments which, in exercise 
of the power conferred ‘by section 59 of the West 
Bengal states Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), the Governor proposes to 
make in the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 
Rules, 1954, mublished with notification No. 8074- 
[1৮7 dated the 28th May 1954, as subsequently 
amended, is hereby published, as required by 
sub-section (1) of the said section, for the informa- 
tion of persons likely to be affected thereby. 


2001 


2002 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Parr] 
AUGUST 16, 1956 


2. Notice is hereby given that the draft 1 
be taken into consideration on or after the 28rd 
August 1956 and any objection or suggestion with 
respect thereto, which may be received by the 
undersigned before that date, shall he considered : 


Draft Amendment 


In sub-rule (1) of rule 4B of the said rules ter 
the words “‘before the expiry of four months from 
the date of vesting” substitute the words “before 
the expiry of the 7th day of September 1956” 


By order of the Governor, 
S. BANERJEE, 
Necy, to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


পপ 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Banga 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 16th August 1956. 


Registered Na C207 No. 41201) 


0 


aly antenna cae چوسمود-‎ জী এ 


p DART *I—Qrders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
17011 the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Political 


NOTIFICATION 


Wo, 63807]. —L6th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the Seaward Artillery Practice Act, 1949 (VIII 
of 1949), the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the carrying out of seaward artillery practice 
ovey the areas in the districts of 24- Parganas and 
M haters described in the schedule below, on 
the 22nd August 1956 and 23rd August 1956— 


The Schedule 


(a) Land Area—The whole land area enclosed 
within the coastal battery at Diamond 
110. 


2003 


2004 THE 087,001 GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Pays 
AUGUST 16, 1986 


(b) Sea Area—The section of the Hooghly 
‘river adjoining Diamond Harbour bound. 
ed onthe north-west west by a straight 
‘line drawn across the river from plot: 
No. 1827, mauza Nurpur (jurisdiction 
list aNy. 25), police-station Diamond 
Harbour, district 84178100008) to plot 
No. 639, mauza Bhangagyra (15118010808 
list No, 170), police-sHftion Mahishadal. 
district Midnapore, and” on the south 
south-east by a straight line drawn across 
the mver from plot No. 06, mauzg- 
Inchinbaria (10180166109 Bet Now 10). 
police-station Kulpi, district’ 24-Par. 
ganas, to plot No. 396, mauza Jhikur- 
khali (jurisdiction list No. 128), “police. 
station Sutahata, district Midnupore, 


By order of the Governof;, 
S. DUTT-MAZUMDAR, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. | 


Printed | and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West =a 
at West Benga) Govt. Press, Alipors, on the 16th August 1956 


Registered No. C207 No. 413018) 


ooh 4 
| me < সু ক. -- 
Extraordinary i analy 


Published by Authority 


ORT ORR emer পপ ১০০ আর ০৮-০০-২৪৯৯ পাপা rn” * 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 1956 


PART 1۵۸-0۲1: and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory 
Notifications of the Election Commission, India, and other Election 
Notifications published for general information. Orders and 
Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette 
of India” are only republished. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA. 
NOTIFICATION. 


No. WB-LC/6/56(6)BL, New Delhi, August 2, 1956 


In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 114 of the Representation of the 
কা (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1951, the name 
1 the person shown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been 
nominated as a candidate for election to the West Bengal Legislative Council 
from the constituency specified in column 3 thereof at the biennial election 
held in May, 1956 and the name of the person specified in column 2 of the 
said Schedule who having acted as the election agent of the candidate speci- 
fied in column 1, have, in accordance with the decision given by the 015০ 
tion Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge the 
return of election expenses within the time and in the manner required and 
have thereby incurred the disqualifications under glause (c) of section 7 
and section 143 of the পা of the People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 
1951), are hereby publish 


পি 


Schedule. 
Name of the candidate. Name of the election agent. Name of the constituency, 
1 2 8 


Shri Arun Kumar Sen Gupta, Shri Ajit Pal, C/o. Shri Arun Burdwan Division (Tea- 
Principal, Suri Vidyasagar Kumar Sen Gupta, Principal, chers) 
College, Suri, Birbhum. petite idyasagar College, Suri, 

irbhum. 


A. KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, 
Secretary to the Election Commission. 


2005 


2006 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 17, 1956 {Parr ۸ 
তলা তাপ নে পা 


ELECTIGN COMMISSION, INDIA 
‘NOTIFICATION 


Dated New Delhi-2, 08 Angus 1956 


No. WB-LC/10/56(7)BL.—In pursuance’ of, sub-rule (6) of rule 114 of 
the Representation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Peti- 
tions) Kules, 1951, the name of the person shown in column 1 of the 
Schedule below who having been nominated as a candidate for election to the 
West Beugal Legislative Assembly from the constituency specified in 
column 2 thereof at the by-election held in May 1956 and having appointed 
himself to be his election agent at the said election, has, in accordance with 
the decision given by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge the return of election expenses within the time and in 
the manner required and has thereby incurred the disqualifications under 
clause (c) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1901 (XLIII of 1951), is hereby published: سے‎ 


Schedule. 
Name of the candidate. Name of constituency. 
1 2 
Shri Dilip Chandra Ghatak, Raikotpara, Weat Bengal North 
Jalpaiguri Town, post offive and district (Local Authorities’) 


Jalpaiguri. 
A. KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR, 
Secretary to the Election Commission. 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
NOTIFICATION 


Dated New Delhi, the 13th August 1956 


No. 29/10/56.—In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by the proviso to rule 12 of the Repre- 
sentation of the People (Preparation of Electoral 
Rolls) Rules, 1956, the Election Commission 
hereby further extends up to the dlst August 1956, 
the period within which claims and objections 
under the said rule are to be made in respect of 
the electoral rolls of all the constituencies com- 
prised in the State of West Bengal. 


By order, 
A. KRISHNASWAMY ATYANGAR, 
Secretary to the Election Commission. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Preas, Alipore on the 17th August, 1956. 


Registered No. C207 


Calritta 


No. 41401), 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 1956. 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 14432L.A.—l7th August 1996. 
—Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Gfovernment by notification No. 20/1/5a- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
dand is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 6 
pipe line for plant site of the Durgapur Steel 
Project, in the village of Dhunara, jurisdiction list 
No. 70, thana Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that a piece 
of land in Block P convprising parts of cadastral 
suryey plot Nos. 6, 40, 41, 60, 53, 54, 65 to 67, 
69, 70, 75, 229, 282, 261, 262, 254, 255, 256, 258 
and 259, and measuring, more or Jess, 2.86 acres, 
is likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense within the afore- 
said village of 8, 


This notification is made, under the provisiens 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
Office of Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Adminiatrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Duggapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise pf the powers conferred by the said 
section read with. the said, notification the Gover- 
hor is pleased to authorise tho officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking with their 
Servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 


2007 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
lund as is not waste or arable who has any objec- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may within thirty 
days after the date on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the Governor is pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shall not apply to the waste or arable: portions 
of the land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14434L.A.—17th August 1966. 
--Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
vient under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
[834), in relation to the acquisition of land fer 
the purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/55. 
Jual.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
(010৮1606102) of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely ¢o be needed for a public purpose, being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur 
Steel Project, in the village of Dubchururia, 
jurisdiction list No. 55, thana Ondal, pargana 
Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby notified 
that a piece of land in Block لا‎ comprisin 
اس‎ survey plot Nes. 1035 to 1037, 
1050 to 1052 and 1054 to 1057, and parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 1084, 1098 to 1040 and 
1053, and measuring, more or leas, 16.82 acres, is 
likely to be needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
at the public expense within the aforesaid village 
of Dubchururia. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification to all whom it may 
concern, ° 


A plan of the land ma 


۱ be inspected in the 
office of Special Lan isiti 


Acquisition Officer, 


2008 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 17, 1956 


[Part] 


سا ” 


Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred bv the said 
section read with the said notification the Gover- 
nor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
11116 being engaged in the undertaking with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and surve 
the land and do all other acts required or permitte 
by that’ section. 


n exercise of the powers conferred by section 
1718) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XX XVIII of 1928 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the Gqgvernor 18 pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Aet shall not ‘apply im this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14436L.A.—17th August 1956. 
—Wheress the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition ef land for 
ihe purposes of the Union have been entrusted to 
the State Government by notification No. 20/1/b5- 
Judi), dated the 14th May 1900, iysued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 268 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
Durgapur Steel Project, in the village of Dhunara, 
jurisdiction list No. 70, thana Faridpur, pargana 
Shergarh, district Burdwan, it 18 hereby notified 
that a piece of land in Block F comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 480 to 488, 490 to 492, 
494 to 499, 501, 502, 507 to 512, 517 to 519, 521 
to 924 and 1085 and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 478, 479, 489, 500, 503, 506, 513, 515, 516, 
520 and 525, and measuring, more or less, 27.19 
acres, is likely to be needed for the. aforesaid 
public purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village of Dbunara. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification to all whym it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
office of Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgapur Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred hy the said 
section read with the said notification the Gover- 
nor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do al! other acts required ur permitted 
by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable who has any objec- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may within thirty 
days after the date on which public notice of the 
substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


; টি i 

‘Tn “exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) af the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIJIT of 1923 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the Governor is pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shal] not apply to the waste or arable portions 
of the land in this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14438L.A.—17th August 1966. 
—Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 

urposes of the Union have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose, 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
Durgapur Steel Project in the village of Angadpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 89, thana Faridpur, pargana 
Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby notified 
that a piece of land in Block O comprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 1 to 9, 12 to 281, 37 
to 469, 471 to 482, 501 to 687, 1390 to 1397, 1424 
und 1425, and measuring, more or less, 269.22 
acres, is likely to be needed for the aforesagdl 
public purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village of Angadpur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well as in that of the Administrator, 
Durgapur Stee] Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section read with the said notification the Gover- 
nor is pleased to authorise the officers for the 
ume being engaged in the undertaking with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
land as is not waste or arable who has any objec- 
tion to the acquisition thereof, may within thirty 
days after the date on which public notice of the 
টাল রিনা of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIITI of 1923 and read with 
the aforesaid notification the Governor is pleased 
to direct that the provisions of section 5A of the 
Act shall not apply to the waste or arable portions 
of the land in this case. 


By order of the Governor, 


5. N. MITHA. 


Special Officer and Dy. Secy. to the 
Govt. of West Bengal (er officie). 


oe re : শি رسب‎ টিটি টিউনটি নিউ টিসি রি উনি وم‎ 
Vrinted and publabed by the Superintendent, Government Printing, Weat Bengal, 


at West Kengo 


Government Prews, Alipore on the 12th August 1956, 


Registered No. C207 No. 41811) 


i 


Calrutta 


te) 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 20, 86 


PART I—Orders and Netifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the 
High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 
: Political 
NOTIFICATION 

No. 6410P.—20th August 1956.—Whereas the (Governor considers it 
necessary und expedient in the public interest that special precautions 
whould be taken to prevent the entry of unauthorised persons into the 
places described in the Schedule below, hereinafter reterred to as the said 

laces; 
. Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) 
and (2) of section 6 of the West Bengal Security Act, 1950 (West Benga 
Act XIX of 1950), the Governor is pleased hereby— 
u) to declare each of the said places to be a protected place, and 
thy to authorise each of the following persons, that is to say :— 
1) Superintendent, Motor Vehicles, Calcutta Corporation 
ta) District Engineer I, Calcutta Corporation 
(3) District Engineer II, Calcutta .Corporation 
(4) District Engineer IIT, Calcutta Corporation 
(5) District Engineer IV, Calcutta Corporation 
to grant the permission referred to in sub-section (2) of said section in 
respect of any one or more of the said places. 
The Schedule 
Particulars of the places with their 
Names of the places. boundaries. 

1. Calcutta Corporation Motor Vehicles Dis- North-~Grey Street 


trict I (North Garage) and South—(i) Khatal at 10, Raja Raj Kiseen 
Gowshala at 72/1, Grey 88৩৪৮, Cal- (pire امو سیت‎ 

li) Prem 08. and 19B, 
eure Dalimtals Lane. 7 


East— (i) Monmohan Basu Street, 
(ti) Scrap Iron Depot at 8, Monmohan 
Bag مسا‎ 
(iii) Premises Nos. 8/1A and Mon. 
mohan Basu سو ساد‎ 


West—Dalimtala Lane (within Ward No. 18 of 
Calcutta). 


2009 


2010 THE CAL. GAZ, EXTRY., AUG, 2, 0 [Parr ۲ 


০০০০০ CF RR ene = আন সেট جج‎ উনি জড়ান a LENO نید جے سس‎ 


Names of the places. | Particulars of the places with thoir 
; boundaries. 
2, Calcutta Corporation Gowshala II and North—(i) 138, Koshab Sen Stroet (¥.M.C.A: 
District II Garage at 92, Baitakkhana Building). 
Road, Caloutta. (ii) Premises No. 91/2, Baitakkhane 
Road. 


(iii) Open plot of land at 91/3, Baitak. 
khana Road. 


(iv) Promises Nos. 01/4, 81/5, 94/5۸ and 
91/5B, Bai ane Road. 
South—Gowkhana Lane. 
Kest-—Baitakkhana Road. 


Weat—Gowkhana Lane (within Ward No: 31 of 
Caloutta). — 


3. Calcutta Corporation Motor Vehiclea North—Permises No 168, Lower Ciroular Road 
(Workshops and Central G ) and (Sur Industries, Ltd.). 
4 ا‎ 0" Lower Circular gouth—Beniapukur Road. 
FEast—Giriah Chandra Basu Road. 
Weat—Lower Circular Road (within Ward 
No. 85 of Calcutta). 


4. Calcutta Corporation District ۲۲ Garage North—About 12 foet high wall (of the parage) 


(South Garage) at Goragacha Road, facing the open plot of land 10081 
Calcutta. নি Commiasioners for the Port of 
cutta. oc 


South—About 6 feet high wall (of the garage) 
facing the open plot of land on Gora- 
gacha Road belonging to the Calcutta 
Cor poration. ' 


East—About 6 feet high wall (of the garage) on 
Incinerator Koad. ; 


Weat—About 6 feet high wall (of the garage) 
facing old Incinerator Plant Com. 
pound (within Ward No. 78 of Cal- 
cutta). 


Explanation.—In this Bchedule “Calcutta” and ““Ward’’ have the same moaning as in the 
Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act XXXIIT of 1951). 


By order of the Governor, 


S. DUTT-MAZUMDAR, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


টিটি SARA ০১১০ ১১0000১১১১0 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal. 
at West Benga) Government Presa, Alipore, on the 20th Augnat 1956. 


Registered No. C207 Noe 41601) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


سے مو ے سے سس سے ہے 


MONDAY, AUGUST 20, 1056 


-۰ = 
ًاسسموے,‎ per 


ہے۳ 7 ۴ 


PART {-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 

Political 

ORDER 
No. 6386007 /306/54.—20th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections 
(1) and (2) of section 6 of the West Bengal Secu- 
rity Act, 1950 (West Bengal Act XIX of 1950), 
the Governor is pleased hereby to make the follow- 
ing amendments in the Government of West 
Bengal, Home (Political) Department, order 
No. 2891P /306/54, dated the 19th April 1956, 
published at pages 815-816 of the Calcutta Gazette 


2011 


2019 THR CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Parr] 
AUGUST 20, 1956 
১৯১১১১১১১৯০ 
RetPrordinary, Part I, dated the 20th April 1966, 

namaly :— 
Amendments 


(1) In clause (b) of the second paragraph of the 
said order Eb ۷ words “the Engineer-in-Chief, 
Calcutta Telephones (Auto)’’, swbstetute the follow- 
ing, namely ;— 

“each of the following persons,— 

(1) The General Manager, Calcutta Tele- 
phone istrict, 

(it) The Deputy General Manager, Calcutta 
Telephone District, 

(171) The Deputy General Manager, Calcutta 
Telephones (Auto), and 

(iv) The Superintending Engineer, Calcutta 
Teléphone District’’. 


(2) In the schedule to the said order, for the 
words ‘‘Durabhush Griha’’ substetute the words 
“Telephone Bhaban’’. 


By order of the Govern, 
8. DUTT MAZUMD QR, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West gal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West 
Bengal, at Weat Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 20th August 1956, 


Registered Ne. C207 


0 


No. 417(1) 


Gazrtir 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


ہے 


MONDAY, AUGUST 20, 6 


এপি oy ere 


সস‏ ھت 


Cen পিস 
সর 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
DECLARATIONS 


Burdwan.—-No. 14462L.A.—20th August 1956. 
—Whereas the functions of the Centra] Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
purposes of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. rae | 55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India, in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose of 
the Union, namely, for » pipe-line for plant site 91 
the Durgapur Steel Project, دا‎ the village of 
Dhunara, jurisdiction list No. 70, thana Faridpur, 

argana বনি district Burdwan, 1t is hereb 
declared that some pieces of land in Block P 
comprising parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 6, 
40, 41, 50, 58, 64, 65 to 67, 69, 70, 19, 
233) 262, 254 to 256, 268 and 2659, and 
measuring, more or less, 2.62 acres, are needed for 
the aforesaid public purpose at the public expense 
within the aforesuid village of Dhunara. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
اہ‎ section 6 of the 1400 Acquisition Act, 1894 
(I of 1894), read with the said notification, (0 all 
whom it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—-No. 144641..A.—20th August 1956. 
~—Wherens the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 ٢ of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
Purposes of the Tnion, have been entrusted to the 


2013 


state Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India, in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that laud 
is needed for a public purpose, being আচ purpose af 
the Union, namely, for the Burgupwr Steel 
Project, in the village of Dubchururia, jurisdiction 
list No. 55, thana Ondal, pargana Shergarh, dis- 
trict Burdwan, it is hereby declared that a piece: 
01 land 10. Block Q comprising cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 1035 to 1087, 1050 to 1052 and 
1054 to 1057, and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 1034, 1038 to 1040 and 1053, and measuring, 
more or less, 16.82 acres, is needed for the afore- 
said public purpose at the public expense within 
the aforesaid village of Dubchururia. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions of 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1804 (1 
of 1894), read with the said notification, to all 
whom it may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No. 14466L.A.—20th August 1956. 
— Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 )1 of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
পাদ of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
Siate Government by notification No. 20/1/5d- 
Judl.(I), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, 
under clause (1) of article 258 of the Constitution 
of Lndia; 


And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
ia needed by the Central Government at the 
public expense for و‎ public purpose, being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur 
Steel Project, in the village of Dhunara, jurisdic. 
tion list No, 70, purgana Shergarh, thann 
Faridpur, diatrict Burdwan, it is hereby declared 


2014 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 20, 1956 


]۸ہ٤‎ 


that for the above purpose some pieces of land in 
Block F, comprising cada8tral survey plot Nos. 480 
io 486, 485, 490, 497, 498, 501, 602, 507 
to 512, 617 to 619 and 621 to 5624, and parts 
of cadastral survey plot Nos. 478, 479, 489, 90) 


506, 518, 615, 51g, 820 and 626, anc 
measuring, more or less, 23.34 acres, are needed 
for the aforesaid public purpose at the public 
expense within the aforesaid village of (0 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 
1894), read with the said notification, to all whom 
it may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No. 14468L.A.—20th August 1956. 
—Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 
1894), im relation to the acquisition of land for the 
purposes of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Government of India, in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution of India; 


_ And whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 
is needed for a public purpose, being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the Durgapur Steel 


Projéct, in the village of Angadpur, jurisdiction 
list No. 89, thana Faridpur, pargana Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby declared that some 
pieces of land in Block O, comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 1 to 3, 6, 7 109, 14) 18, 
15 to 24, 2% to 55, 57 to 73, TH to 99, 
101 to 108, 105 to 122, 124 to 148, 146, 
147 to 162, 154 to 169, 111 to 187, 189 
to 215, 217 to 282, 240, 260, 256, 258, 259, 
20] to 281, 370 to 386, 388 to 429, 431 
to 439, 441 to 461, 468, 464, 466 to 469, 
471 to 479, 482, 502 to 509, 511 to 526, 529, 
to 540, 542 to 588, 590 19 682, “634 to 641, 
643 to 6382, 684 to 687, 1890 to 1897, 1424 
und 1425, and measuring, more or less, 241.00 
acres, are needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
at the public expense within the aforesaid ا‎ 


of Angadpur. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
ot section 6 of the Jand Acquisition Act,.4894 (J 
of 1894), read with the said notification,, 0ى‎ all 
whom 01 may concern. "yo 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the‘office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Burdwan, 
as well as in that of the Administrator, Durgapur 
Steel Project, Durgapur, Burdwan, 


By order of the Governor, 
S. N.MITRA, 


Special Officer and Dy. Secy. (ea officio) 
to the (iovt. of West Bengal. 


Printad and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
৪৮ West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 20th August 1956. 


Registered No. C207 


Calrutta 


No. 418(1) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


ام وویممے eS‏ میں رو سے পপ‏ 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 21, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor ot West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Midnapore.—No, 14508L.A.—2let August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being 2 purpose of the Union, viz., for the 
construction of 182 K. V. Grid Sub-station at 
Khargpur, in the village of Talbagicha urf 
Kuchlatari, jurisdiction list No. 145, thana 
’Khargpur, pargana Balarampur, district 
Midnapore, it is hereby notified that a piece of 
land comprising parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 29, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 46 and 
measuring, more or lesa, 16.43 acres, is likely to 
be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation within 
the aforesaid village of Talbagicha. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector Midnapore. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
sald section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servante, and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts, required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
ion 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act’ I of 1894, 
as amended by Act XXXVIII of 1929, the 
Overnor is pleased to direct that the লি 
of section 6A of the Act shall not apply to this 
case, " ‘ 


Burdwan.—-No. 146121,.A.—2lst August 1956. 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
4 likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 


2015 


being a purpose of the Union, namely, for Left 
Dyke No. 3 of Maithon Dam Project in connection 
with the Damodar Flood Control Project in the 
village of Bathanbari, jurisdiction list No. 4, 
thana Salanpur, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that a piece of land compriging cadastral. 
survey plot No. 797 and parts of beg i ES survéy 
plot Nos. 774, 775, 785, 796, 798 to 800,-901, 931, 
932 and 959, and measuring, more or less, 14.00 
acres, 18 likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesaid village of 
Bathanbari. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the lund may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts, required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
lands as are not waste and arable, who has any 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing, before the 
5 اک‎ Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by  sec- 
tion 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Aet I of 1894, 
ns amended by Act XXXVITF of 1923, the 
(fovernor is pleased to direct that the provisions 
of section 5A of the Act shall-not apply to the 
waste or arable portion of the land ig this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14516L.A.—2ist August 1936. 
—Whereas it ‘appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 


2016 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 21, 1956 


being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 
Maithon Borrow Area in 00011800101) with the 
Damodar Flood Contro] Project in the village of 
Hadla, jurisdiction list Nos. 28, thana Salanpur, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces 
of land comprising pafts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 562, 563, 5Y2, 575, 577, B78, 1174, 1175 and 
1181, are likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation, within the aforesaid village 
of Hadla. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 


. [Pang I 
ইস সা 


enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts, required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in 90 much of the above 
lands as are not waste and arable, who has any 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which public notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing, before the 
Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by ৪০০- 
tion 17(4) of the Jand Acquisition Act I of 1894, 
as amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the 
Governor is pleased to direct that the provisions 
of section 5A of the Act shal] not apply to the 
waste or arable portions of the lands ھا‎ 483 case. 


By order of the Goverffér; 
P. M. DATTA; 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
ut Wast Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 2let August 2966, 


Registered No. C207 


Calcutta 


No. 41901) 


8810108 অমন 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 21, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTICES 


Birbhum.—No. 14520L.A.(P.W.).—21st August 
1956.—Whereas 4.66 acres, more or less, of land 
situated in or near the villages of Faschim- 
bahadurpur and others described below have been 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the West Bengal Land (Requisition and 
Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the person authorised 
under the suid section 301) tor the purpose of 
providing facilities for irrigation and drainage, 
namely, for the construction of Distributary 
No. 3, Ex. Kopai South Main Canal in connec- 
tion with the Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section. 4 of the said Act the Cov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the srovision of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act 11 of 1948), to all whoin it 
may concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition ()fficer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land. 


Mauza Vaschimbahadurpur, , jurisdiction 138 
No. 63, police-stations Bolpus, district Bur- 
bhum. ; 


Cadastral survey plote in tull—982 and $22. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—806, 306, 308, 
315, 816, 317, 818, 320, 324, 325, 339, 363, 
302," 366, 856, 370, 871, °872, 378, 374, 378, 
40h, 406, 407, 408, 412, 418, 414, 415, 418, 
618, 892, 893, 894, 896, 893, 916, 917, 920, 921, 
923, 931, 933, 939, 940, 941, 945, 946, 979, 
980, O81, 982, 983, 984, 1169, 1188, 1184, 668, 
664 and 665. 


ww? 
ww or 


Mauza Binuria, jurisdiction list No, 54, police- 
station Bolpur, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plots in full—2186, 2187, 


2194, 2213, 2217. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—2147 , 2184, 
2185, 2188, 2189, 2192, 2199, 2195, 2199, 2200, 
2205, 2210, 2211, 2212, 2214, 2215, 2216, 
2227, 2228) 2299, 2230, 2231, 2232, 2238, 
2236, 2237, 22388, 2275, 3459 and 3460. 


Murshidabad.— No. 14522L.A.(P?.W.).—2] at 
August 1956.—Whereas 12.02 acres, more or less, 
of land situate in or near the villages of Said 
Kalutia and 2 others described below have been 
requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 3° 
of the West Bengal Land (Requisition and Acqui- 
sition) Act, 1948, by the person authorised under 
the said section o(L) for the purpose of providing 
facilities for irrigation and drainage, namely, 
for Minor No. 4 of Distributary No. 19 Ex. 
Kopai South Main Canal in connection with 
Mayurakshi Reservoir Froject ; 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
wublic purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it 
may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land. 


Mauza Said Kalutia, jurisdiction list No. ۰ 
হি Bharatpur, district Murshida- 
ad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—326, 339, 340, 
O41, 342, dod, 804, 355, 346, 357, 387, 389, 
BOL, 3898, 401, 402, 403, 404, 40১, 406, 419, 
456, 462, 468, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475, 661, 
663, 570, 571, 572, 6416, 617, 618, 621, 62° 
636, 642, 644, 645, 646, 647, 651, 693, 694, 695, 
696, 697, 698, 708, 704, 706, 707, 708, 709, 
710, 2162, 2163, 2165, 2240, 2242 and 2289. 


2017 


۶018 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 21, 1956 


Mauzy Bharatpur, jurisdiction list No. 82, کا(‎ 
stution Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—6843, 6844, 
5845, 6856, 5858, 5809, 5860, 5862, 5898, 5899, 
5900, 5901, 5902, 5903, 5942, 5946, 5947, 5948, 
5949, 4950, 5951, 5952, 5954, 5955, 9970, 5971, 
5972,. 5977, 5978, 5979, 5981, 6025, 6027, 6028, 
6029, 6041, 6012, 60438, 6044, 6453, 6454, 663], 
6532, 6535, 6536, 6337, 6538, 8134 and 8197. 


Mauza Sahapur, jurisdiction list No. 144, :police- 
station Bharatpur, district Murshidabad. 


Cagastral survey plots in part—24, 25, 38, 40, 
41, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 92, 93, 94, 96, 97, 120, 121, 
124, 125, 128, 129, 130, 145 and 3134. 


Murshidabad.—No. 14544L.A.(P.W.).—21st 
August 1956.—Whereas 11.15 acres, inore or 
tess, of land situate in or near the villages of 
Mathkhagra and two others described below have 
been requisitioned under sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the West Bengal Land (Requisition and 
Acquisitiony Act, 1948, hy the person authorised 
under the said section 3 (1) for the purpose of 
irrigation and drainage, nainely, fur Distributary 
No. 17/1 of Brahmani North Main Canal in con- 
nection with Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the ‘Jov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 


[ Part J 


Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it 
may concern. 


A plan of the land ٦ be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land. 


Mauza Mathkhagra, jurisdiction list No. 17, 
বিলিন Sagardighi, district Murshida- 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1702, 1703, 
1706, 1706, 1707, 1709, 1710, 1727, 1728, 1729, 
1732, 1738, 1739, 1740, 1741 and 11447 


Mauza Tantibiral, jurisdiction list No: 16, police- 
station Sagardighi, district Murshidahag, 


Cadastral survey plots in part—17, 18, om 34, 
305 38, 39, 43, 44, 79, 80, 108, 111, 112, 115, 
118, 119, 120, 267, 407 and 411. 


Mauza Sher, jurisdiction list No. 19) police- 
station Sagardighi, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—652, 664, 65, 
667, 668, 669, 670, 675, 086, G88, 6১9, 693, 694, 
695, 696, 697, 1272, 1278, 1279, 1280, 1541, 
1543, 1544, 1547, 1548, 1549, 1554, 1555, 1560 
and 1561. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. ঠা. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the বা 11 Government Printing, West Bengal, 


at Weat Bengal Government Press, 


pore, on the 2let August 1956, 


‘Registered Ne. C207 


No. 426(1}. 


(91211 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 1956. 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan,—No. 14872L..A.—22nd August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower 
Base No. 82A of Burdwan-Belmuri section 182- 
K.V. Transmission line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of scheme for genera- 
tion, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Sehara, jurisdiction 8) 
No. 143, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby notified that a piece of land وا‎ 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 903 and 91 
measuring, more or less, .0206 of an acre, 18 


d 
3 


y to be needed for the aforesaid هنااسم‎ pur- 
at the expense of the Damodar Valley Cor- 
poration within the aforesuid village of Sehara; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section the (Governor is pleased 10 
authorise ihe officera for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land 


and do 91] other acts required or permitted by that 
section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred hy .section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIIT of 1925, the Governor 
18 pleased to direct that the iprovisions of section 
SA-of the Act shall not apply to this cuse. 


Burdwan.—No, 14h761.A.-—22nd August 1956. 
—~Whereas it appears to the Governor that Jand 
19 likely to be neoded for a public purpose, not 


2019 


being a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower 
Base Nos. 83B+10 and 84[۱ 10 of Burdwan- 
Belmuri section 132-K.V. Transmission line in 
connection with promotion and operation of 
scheme for generation, transmission and distribu- 
tion of electric energy in the village of Basistha- 
pur, jurisdiction list No. 17, thana Jamalpur, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces 
of land comprising parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 602, 804 and 805 and altogether neaguring, 
more or less, .0734 of an acre, are likely to be 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation, with- 
in the aforesaid village of Basisthapur; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section the Governor is pleased — to 
authorise the officers for the time being tngaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and work- 
men, to enter upon and survey the land and do 
all other acts required or permitted by that sec- 
tion. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1 of 1894, as 
amended by Act XAXXVILT of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


NOTICE 


Burdwan.—No, 145681..A.(P.W.).—2?2nd August 
1956.——-Whereas 21.665 acres, more or less, of 
land situated in or near the villages of Murutya 
and two others described below have been requisi- 
ticned under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
West Bengal Land (10690181107) and Acquisition) 
Act, 1948, by the person authorised under the 
said section 301) for the purpose of providing 
facilities for irmation and drainage, namely, tor 
Minor No, 2 of Distributary No. 15 Ix. Kopat 
South Main Canal in connection with Mayur- 
nkshi Reservoir Project; 


2020 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 22, 1986 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
mursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act IT of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may tbe inspected 10. the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Mauza Murutya, jurisdiction list No. 12, thana 
Ketuyram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plot in full—882. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—10, 16, 17, 18, 
19, 27, 30, 38, 34, 36, 37, 38, 71, 72, 73, 74, 136, 
137, 164, 156, 159, 160, 348, 349, 350, 361, 
302, 353, 358, 359, 360, 367, 368, 375, 917, 
718, 381, 984, ۹888, 484, 386, 387, 388, 389, 
400, 392, 430, 431, 4382, 438, 439, 440, 441, 
442, 443, 445, 44f, 664, 686, 802, 803, 833, 
834, 835, 8386, 837, 844, 845, 846, 847, 848, 
, 876, 877, 879, 880, 881, 883, 
884, 885, 887, 888, 889, 890, 1688, 1697, 
1698, 1699, 1704, 1707, 1711, 1712, 17138, 
1717, 1744, 1745, 1746, 1751, 1752, 1753, 


[Parr ۳ 


1184,' 1755, 1756, 1757, 1758, 1763, 1764, 
i765, 1795, 1796, 1799, 1808, 1811, 1812, 
1814, 1815, 1816, 1817, 1818, 1822, 1824, 1825, 
1826, 1827, 2142, 2143, 2144, 2145, 2153, 
2164, 2157, 2158, 2159, 2166, 2167, 2171 and 


Mauza Margram, jurisdiction list No. 13, thana 
Ketugram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plot in full—2053. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—2005, 2006, 
207, 2017, 2018, 2047, 2060, 2054, 

2056, 2161, 2208, 2221, 2222, 2228, 2224, 
2225, 2227, 2232, 2238,. 2235, 2236, 2238, 
2239, 2240, 2241, 2242, 2244, 2246, 2246, 
2301, 2302, 2303, 2919, 2314, 2315, 2316, 
2317, 2318, 2543, 2848, 2881, 2382, 2383, 2384, 
2385, 2386, 2408, 2409, 2410 and 2411. 


Mausa Auklona, jurisdiction list No. 11, thana 
Ketugram, district Burdwan. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—l, 2, 19, 20, رظ‎ 
20, 26, 27 and 29. 


By order of the Governor, 


1১, M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


۰ 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at Wost Bongal Government 1966. 


ernment Press, Alipore on the 22nd August 


Registered No. C207 


Calrutta 


No. 34 of 1956 | 


Published by Authority 


$ 


পিট". حسم‎ ₹ দারা রা 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 238, 1956 


The undermentioned Extraordinary issues of the “Calcutta Gazette” were published 
up to 10th August 1956 


[০৪ No. Order /Notification /Declara- 


Department. 
tion No. and date. 


588) 


No. 18816L.A. (P.W.), dated the Land and Land Revenue 
6th August 1956. 


4021) No. 2444A.R., dated the 6th Home (Constitution and 
August 1956. Elections). 

38880) No. 1850L., dated the 6th Leguslative - 
August 1956. 

394(1) No. 6947 ایی‎ dated the Development 
Ith August 1956. 

9880 No. 6003P., dated the 7th Home (Political) 
August 1956. 

304) No. 6002P., dated the 7th Ditto 7 
August 1956. 

৯০৪) No. 18974L.A., dated the 7th Land and Land Revenue 
August 1956. 

6070) Nos. 2457-2458A.R., dated the Home (Constitution and Eleo- 


8th August 1056. tions). 


1080) 4 3৬. تا‎ dated the 0th Food, 99851 and Supplies ., 


4 ۲ھ"‎ 05 
396 OL.Ay atid angther, Land and Land Revenue .. 
لم‎ eg ait Sth August 1996 
এ নত ا‎ 
8990) 188. ,.۱10۶مو:4‎ dated the Home آلهەنئاہ۶)‎ 
* 10th August, 19886. 
4000) ও, 1614GNB., dated the 10th Finanee (Budget) 
August 1958, 
411) ৩, 24768. dated abe 10th , Home (Conetitugion and Els 
Apgust 4958. trea). : 
MIT)" Nos [96TLig, the ‘10th Legislative 
8০৮ এ দা 
Mag) “Land and Lead ‘Revenue 


No, 44106. dated thea Itth 
ক 1966. 


™ 


Subject. Fggos. 
»» Acquustion of land in Birbhug, direct ~« 1933-1984 
Governor’s assent to the Calcutta University 1085: 
(Amendment) Bill, 1956. 
West Bengal Act XXIII of 1956 - 463%.199%% 
Constituting a Board with some persons 1939-1940 
mentioned therem, for the proper settle- 
ment and implementation of the Scheme 
for bnck manufacture at Durgapur. 
Announcing with utmost profound 19 1941 
the death of Dr. H. C. Mookerjee, Govarndr 
of West Bengal, at 5-50 p.m. oan 
August 1956 at Ra) Bhavan, Calcutta, 
Declaring Wednesday, the 8th August 1943 
ae ng t the day of funeral af Dr. 
ookerjee, Governor of Weat 
Bonga, as a public holiday throughout 
Weat Bengal under Act XXVI-of 1881. 
Acquisition of land in Burdwan district .. ۱9430-309043 
এ Phan: Bhusan Chakravartti has the 1944-1946 
appointed temporarily to 2০০ 
functions of the ihe دا‎ of W 
and has taken the prescribed oath a 
entered the duties of hus office. 
Amondments in this سو‎ ge orde¥ 194% 1948 
No. 365717,۵, dated the ۸0 8956. 4 
৭ Errata 09829090945 and declgration .. 194881৯8888 
৪১৩ লিঃ Cmemas Rogulation: of 8949.1916 
PubheExbih Rule’, 1056 and the 
১০০ Ben ato h যা 
pion তা Priviite,ExhiBftions) Ordar, 1956. 
80১591১6108 for an isfue of 4 per cent. —-1f1'7.1980" 
Weat Bohgal Loan, 1968. 
Governot’s اط مہ‎ to the West Bongal Looal 198) 
Bodite (Hiéctoral Offences and Miscella- 
06030 visite) (83095892070) Bill, 
1988, 2 
Weet Bengal Act MKIV of ٤6 1988-2084 
Acquisition of landin Burdwan distnot .. 1998-6 


8112. THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 (Parr I 
— ee سس‎ hi 
CONTENTS; 
Page. Page. 
PART I.—Orders and notifications by صط‎ PART IVB,—Bills introduced in the Weat 
سح ا نٹ‎ Bengal, the High Court, Bengal Legulative Council; Reports of 
Government Treasury, eto. ve »» 8171—3257 Select Committees presented or to be 
ted to that Council; and Bills published 
PART IA;—Orders and notifications of the fore introduction in that Council ; Nil 
Government é6f Hida, Statutory notifications 
of the Biection Compnission, India, and other PART V.—Acte of the Parlament of India 
Election notifications published for general assented to by the President and Ordinances 
information. _ Ortlers and notifications which promulgated by the President— 
have o y beey pubbshed in the “Gazet The Travanoore-Cochin State Legislature 
of India” are only republished +» 321—3829 (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1956 ঢা «+ 235—236 
_—Advertisem notioes .. 0 8071 a; Reporte elect Committees presented 
01079 00 9 7 to Parliament; and Bills published before 
PART 1١۱11. ٥د‎ of the West Bengal Legisla- introduction in Parliamont -۰ Nil 
turo সি ৪ i es ৪ Nil 
PART IffA.*-Ordinances mulgated by the 
Governor of West Bengal under the Consti- SUPPLEMENT No. 34— 
tutio® بے‎ -٦۰ ve wn Nil 
রি ۱ Weekly Weather and Crop Report of Weat 
PART IVA.—Billa introduced in the West Bengal for the week ending the 9th August 
Bengal Legislative Assembly: Reports of 1956 7 -7 8سہ7 51 نے و‎ 
Select Committees presented or to be : 
nted to that Assembly; and Billa pub- Final Forecast of Bhadoi Crops of West Bengal د3‎ 
ished before introduction in that Assembly Ni for the year 1955-56 ৮০ 1 519-824 ° 


ورڈ 


1 চবি কনার 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


উ্ধরাষ্ট্র ۱ 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


সাধারণ 8۱ 
General Administration 
নং ৩১১১জ,এ। 

No. 3111G.A. 
নিয়োগ ও বদলণী। 


Appointments and Transfers 
সাধারণ । 
General. 


No. 3004G,.A./G/8A-83/56.—11th August 1956. 
—The Gevernor has been pleased to re-appoint 
Shri D+ S. P. Mukherjee, I.A.S. (retired), to be 
Special. Offleer and er oficto Joint Secretary, 
Labow® Department, for a period of nine months 
with effect from the 3let July 1954, viz., for the 
first five mgfaths as Special Officer and ea officio 
Joint Secretary, Labour Department and the lost 
four months as on leave in lieu of leave for four 
. ths preparatory to retirement which was 
previously, refused to him in the interest of public 


Bagvice. 

মালদহ-পাঁশ্চম ফনাজপর ৮-নং ৩০১৫জ,এ।ইএল-২১1৫৬1--১৯৩ই 
irs ১৯৫১ মালদহ জেলার উপ-শাসক ও ANKE শ্রীবমলকুমার 
ভটাচাষ পশ্চিম দিনাজপুর জেলার সদর মহকুমার ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


Ida-West 10118178110. 3015G.A. /2L-21 /56. 
w-Idt August 1956.—The Governor is pleased ۵ 
point Skri Bimal 1٦07 মি Deputy 
i istrate and Deputy Collector,, Malda, to have 
‘hafge ef the Satlar 88031515100 of the West 


Dmajpur digtriet. 


দিলাকীপনর-আোদিনীপনর নং ৩০১৬দ্ি,এ।২এল-২১।৫৬।-‏ جہ-ہ 
উপ-শাসক ও সমাহতা‏ کے نی ১০ই আগস্ট ৯৯৫৯ পশ্চিম‏ 
হইলেন!‏ 


West Dinajpur-Midnapore.—No. 3016G.A. /2L- 
21/56.—13th August 1996.—The Governor is 
leased ۵ apppint Shri Amal Kunfhr’ Das i اس‎ 

epuby Magistrate and Deputy Collécte:, West 
Dinajpur, to have charge of the Ghatal Subdivision 
of the Midnapore district. 


মং ৩০৪০জি,এ।১এল-২।৫৬।--১৪ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।- কষ শন 
ও বন-বিভাগের অপর সচিব শ্রী সি, কে, রায়, আই, এ, এস, পৃনয়াদেশ 
পর্যান্ত এ বিভাগের সচিব fre হইলেন। 


No. 3040G.A./1L-2/56.—l4th August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 0. K. 
I.A.S., Additional Secretary to Goygrnment 39 
এ of Agriculture, Animal Husbaniiry 
and Forests, to be, until further orders, Secretary 
to Government in that department. 


নং ৩০৪৯জি,এ1১এল-২।৫৬।--১৪ই আগস্ট ১১৫৬।-ডাঃ APN, 
আই, TH, এস, পুনরাদেশ مہ‎ সেচন ও ے ساس‎ 
পদাধকারে, মংস্য বিভাগের সচব ও se বিভাগের প্রাধকারিক - 


হইলেন। 


No. 3041G.A./1L-2/56.—14th August 1966৮ 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Dr. N. Das, 
I.C.S., to be Secretary to Government in 4 
Irrigation and Waterways Departmen, and in 
addition thereto, ee officio Secretary in the 
Fisheries Department and Special Officer if th 
Home Department, until further orders. 


No. 3047G.A.—14th August 1956.—The Gover 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri I. B. S. RB. Burita, 
1.A.8., Deputy Secretary, Home Department, to 
be, until further orders, Joint Secretary?'in that 
department.and in addition thereto, ১788. Defence 
Co-ordination Officer, West Bengal, 


নং ৩০৩৯জি,এ।৫1স-৩৫ و کک‎ 3৫৬ ah উস, কে, 
arate, আই, এ, এস, امیس‎ পর্যন্ত ent (বিভাগের aes 
fae হইলেন। 


No. 3059G.A. /5C-385 /56.—16th Augmst 19660, 
Thg Governog is pleased to appoint Shri S. کا‎ 
Banerjee, 1.A.8., Deputy Develapment Commis- 
sioner afid ra oficio Deputy Secretary, Develop 
ment Department, to be Joint Secretary to Govern 
soi in the Labeur Department, yntil further 
orders, - 


হযওড়া-জলপাইগাড়₹-ন/ ৩০৬১৯ জি,এ।৫স-৩৫।৫৬1-১৬ই আগস 
১৯৫৬ হাওড়ার ٣× শ্রী saa, এম, gore, আইণ এ, 7ہ‎ 
۴مہ 7خ‎ প্ললপাইগাড়ি ছেলার' জেলাশাসক ও সমাহর্তা ۶۴ 
. 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 6 173 


nn a নী 


Howrah-Jalpaiguri.—No. 3061G.A./5C-35 166. 
16th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri M, M. Kushari, I1.A.8.,. District 
aerate, Howrah, to be Deputy Commissioner 
and District Magistrate and Collector, Julpaiguri, 
until further orders. 


নদশয়া-হাওড়া ।--নং COG ২ঁজ,এ1৫স-৩৫।৫৬1--১৬ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬। 
»নদশয়ার অপর জেলাশাসক শ্রী বি, বি, মণ্ডল, আই, এ, এস, 06 
MS হাওড়ার জেলাশাসক ও সমাহর্তা ٢٣۳٣ হইলেন। 


Nadia-Howrah.—No. 3062G.A. /5C-35/56.—16th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri B. B. Mondal, J.A.8S., Additional District 
Magistrate, Nadia, to be District Magistrate and 
Collector, Howrah, until further orders. 


২৪-পরগপা-নপীয়া।-নং ৩০৬৩জি,এ।৫স-৩৫।৫৬।--৯৬ই আগস্ট 

১৯৫৬ ।--১৮৯৮ Toews দণ্ডপ্রপালশর (১৮৯৮ খুঃ ৫ম আইন) ১০ম 

ধারার ২য় উপ-ধারায় প্রদত্ত ক্ষমতাবলে রাজ্যপাল কর্তৃক শ্লী و‎ এস, রাঘবন, 

আই, এ, এস, WAP LAT মহকুমা শাসক, পুনরাদেশ পর্যাল্ত, নদীয়া 

অপর জেলাশাসক fre হইলেন। এ পদে Tee থাকাকালে 

Sin উত্ত দণ্ডপ্রণালপ প্রদত্ত জেলাশাসকের সমস্ত ক্ষমতা এবং এ জেলায় 
AMG অন্যান্য আইনসমূহ প্রদত্ত সমস্ত ক্ষমতা প্রাপ্ত ۱ 


24-Parganas-Nadia.—No. 30638G.A. /5C-35 /56.— 
16th August 1956.—In exercise of the powers 

nferred by sub-section (2) of section 10 of the 
4০ of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), 
the Governor is pleased to appoint Shri B. 8. 
Raghavan, I.A.S., Joint Magistrate and Deputy 
Collector, now Subdivisional Officer, Barrackpore, 
24-Pargaonas, to act as Additional District 
Magistrate, Nadia, until further orders and_ to 
direct that he shall have during the period he is 
'go employed all the powers of a District Magistrate 
0161. the said Code and under all other Jaws in 
force in that district. 


দোদলীপার - ২৪-পরগণা।-নং ৩০৬৪ জি,এ।৫স-৩৫।৫৬।--১৬ই 
‘hard ১৯৫৬ মেদিনীপুর জেলার ঝাড়গ্রামের মহকুমা শাসক শ্রী এম, 
ধন, চৌধুরশী, আই, ص‎ এস, পুনরাদেশ পর্যান্ত ২৪-পরগণা জেলার 
AMPA মহকুমার ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


Midnapore-24-Parganas,—No. 3064G.A. /50-35 
36.—16th August 1956.—The Governor is please 
و‎ appoint Shri M. N. Chaudhuri, 1.A.8., Joint 

agistrate and Deputy Collector, now Sub- 
divisional Officer, Jhargram, Midnapore, to be 
fant Magistrate and Deputy Collector 10) the 
2#Parganas district and to have charge of the 
Barrackpore Subdivision of that district, until 
further orders, 


By order of the Governor, 

S.'N. RAY, Chief Secy. 
Burdwan-Howrah.—No. 3044G.A./4S-18/55 — 
14th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
cancel the orders contained in this department 
notification No. 2638G.A., dated the 6th July 1956, 
posting Shri Dhirendra Mohan Ghosh, Deputy 
fagistrate and Deputy Collector, on probation, 
Asansol, Burdwan, to the headquarters station of 

the Howrah district. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under ১০০১, 


ELLE LALLL AD 


fe 


আরক্ষা। 
Police. 
بج چم‎ ৩০৭৩জি,এ।শুপি-৪৩1৫৬--৯৭ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-- 
অবকাশভোগণ 8: টি, কে, দাশ, আই.পি, এস, ۴۳,98 6٤6 
হইতে পুনর়াদেশ পর্যন্ত হাওড়ার অপর আরক্ষাধীক্ষক ۳۷۴۴ ছইলেন। 


Howrah. —- No. 3073G.A./3P-43/56. — 17th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri .لا .ا‎ Das, I.P.S., on leave, to act, until 
further orders, as Additional Superintendent of 
Police, Howrah, with effect from the Cate of his 
joining the post, 


হাওড়া ।নং ৩০৭৪জি,এ।৩পি-৪৩।৫৬।--১৭ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।- 
হাওড়ার অপর আরক্ষাধীক্ষক শ্রী এস, বসু, আই, পি, এস, sere 
গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে চার wera বিশেষ সহায়ক یئ‎ হইলেন। 


Howrah. — No.  3074G.A./3P-43 /56. — 17th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri S. Basu, I. P.S., officiating Additional 
Superintendent of Police, Howrah, to be, until 
further orders, Special Assistant, Intelligence 
Branch, with effect from the date of his jomng 
the post. 


সর্শিদাবাদ-২৪-পরগরণা।-নং 009.6 TH, 1OTH-BO ١٤ن‎ I~” ٹوچ‎ 
sage ahaa আরক্ষাধীক্ষক শ্রী টি, aa, ante’, আই fey, 
এস, কার্ধাভার গ্রহণের তারথ হইতে শিয়ালদহ wat রেলপথ چب‎ 
আরক্ষাধীক্ষক Tree হইলেন। 


Murshidabad-24-Parganas.—No. 2075(4.A./3P- 
43/56.—17th August 1956.—The Governor is 
es to appoint Shri T. N. Baneiji, I.P.S., 
uperintendent of Police, Muvefifabad, to he, 
until further orders, Superintendent of Police, 
Government Railway Police, Sealdah, with effect 
from the date of his joining the post. 


R8- aT PATA ١-۰٣ ৩০০৬ জ)এ।শোপি-৪৩ ۵ 8د‎ 0 
১৯৫৬।--২৪-পরগণার অপর আরক্ষার্ধীক্ষক ےھ‎ বি, সি, মজুমদার, আই, 
পি, এস, SATS গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে পুনরাদেশ পর্যান্ত মুর্শির্দালাদের 
আরক্ষাধীক্ষক নিষুস্ত হইলেন। 


24-Parganas-Murshidabad.—No. 3076G.A./3P- 
43/56.—17th August 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint Shri B. 0. Mazumdar, 1.7. 
officiating Additional Superintendent of Police, 
24-Parganas, to act, until further orders, aa 
Superintendent of Police, Murshidabad, with 
effect from the date of his joining the post. 


দূর্শিদাবাদ-২৪-পরগণা HE ৩০৭৭াঁজ,এ1৩1প-৪৩1৫৬।--১৭ই 
87۳ ১৯৫৬।-সর্শদাবাদের আরক্ষার্ধীক্ষক St বি, পি, মজুমদার, আই, 
পি, এস, নিজ ہہب‎ সহিত শিয়ালদহ সরকারী রেলপথ or 
অপর আরক্ষাধীক্ষক fre হইলেন। 


২। শ্রী মজৃমদার وڈ‎ রেলপথের যে অংশ ম্ডার্শদাবাদ জেলায় পাঁড়য়াছে 
তাহার সর্ব আরক্ষাধীক্ষকের যাবতাঁয় কর্ম সম্পাদন কারবেন। 


Murshidabad-24-Parganas.—No. 30770.4..197- 
43/56.—l7th August 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to appoint Shri B. 0. Matundar, I.P.S., 
officiating Superintendent of Polite; ‘Murshidabad, 
to act as Additional Superintendent: of Polide, 
Government Railway Police, Sealdah, in additio. 
to his own duties. 


2. Shri Mazumdar will perform all the duties 
of a Superintendent of Police along that rortion of 
the railway line which falla within the district of 
Murshidabad. 

By order of the Governor, 
S. N. Ray, Chief Secy. 


٢197-00 ۹+) (নং ২৯৮০ জি,এ।৩শি-১।৫৬ ৮-১০ই ہ٥٣‎ 
Shee چوجچ‎ জেলার সরকারী রেলওয়ে আরক্ষার অস্থায়ী উপ- 
আরক্ষাধাক্ষ ۳۹ ব্যানার্জী wets গ্রহণের wise হইতে 
মেদিনশপৃর জেলার حم‎ শাখার উপ-আরক্ষাাক্ষ free ইইলেন। 


Howrah-Midnapore.—No. 2980G.A./3P-1/56.— 
10th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Phanindra Lal Banerjee, officiatin 
Deputy Superintendent of Police, Government Rail- 
way Police, Howrah, to dct until further orders as 
Deputy Superintendent of Police and to post him 
یا‎ the District Enfgrcement Branch, Maidnapore, 
with effect from the date on which he assumes 
charge, 


3174 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


[Parr 1 


আশিগাবাদ-হাওড়া Ne ২৯৮১জিএ।৩পি-১৫৬।--১০ই আগস্ট 
৯৯৫৬ afew cena অস্থায়ী উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ 53:7 
চ্যাটার্জি কার্ধাভার গ্রহণের Sifax হইতে হাওড়া সরকারী রেলওয়ে 
আরক্ষার উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ নিযুন্ত হইলেন। 


Murshidabad-Howrah.—No. 2981G.A./3P-1/56. 
—l0th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Tejendra Kishore Chataryj:, officiating 
Deputy Superintendent of Police, Murshidabad, to 
act until further orders as Deputy Superintendent 
of Police and to post him to the Government Rail- 
way Police, Howrah, with effect from the date on 
which he assumes charge. 


আোগলীপাক-সবার্শদাবাদ سے‎ ২৯৮২জজ,এ।৩পি-১।৫৬।-১০ই আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ --সালুয়াদ্ঘিত পশ্চিমবপোর بی ہمہ‎ সেনাবাহিনীর সহ- 
সেনাধ্ক্ষ শ্রীবীরেন্দ্রনাথ মুখোপাধ্যায় sete গ্রহণের তাঁরখ হইতে 
মশর্শদাবাদ জেলার উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ fre ۱ 


Midnapore-Murshidabad.—No. 2982G.A./3P-1/ 
56.—10th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased 
to post Shri Birendra Nath 8101১91095৬ Deputy 
Superintendent of Police, now posted as Assistant 
Commandant, Eastern Frontier Rifles (West 
Bengal Battaljon), Salua, to the headquarters 
station of the Murshidabad district with effect 
from the date on which he assumes charge. 


SRR ২৯৮৩ জি,এ।৩পি-১1৫৬ 1--১০ই আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ ৯-মৃর্শিদাবাদ জেলার অবেক্ষাধীন উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ শ্রীপল وہ‎ 
মশ্ডল aes শিক্ষা সুমাপনাল্তে কার্ধভার গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে 
সালুয়টস্থত পশ্চিমবঙ্গের পূর্বান্ত সেনাবাহিনীর সহ-সেনাধ্ক্ষ নিযুক্ত 
হইলেন। 


Murshidabad-Midnapore.—No. 2983G.A./3P-1/ 
56.—10th August 1956.—The Governor 15 pleased 
to post Shri Paul Ajit Mondle, Deputy Superin- 
tendent of Police, on probation, Murshidabad, as 
Assistant Commandant, Eastern Frontier Rifles 
(West Bengal Battalion), Salua, with effect from 
the date*n which he assumes charge on completion 
of his practical training. ۳ 


হাওড়া-বর্থআজান।_নং ২৯৮৪জ,এ।৩প্ি-১1৫৬ ৮-১০ই আগস্ট 
৯৯৫৬ AICS Tae Beart উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ শ্রীশবকালশী গাঙ্গুলী 
BASS WE তাঁর হইতে বর্ধমান জেলার সদরে উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ 
TIS হইলেন। 


Howrah-Burdwan.—No. 2984G.A. /3P-1/56. — 
10th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Shiba Kali Ganguli, officiating 
Deputy Superintendent of Police, Howrah, to act 
until further orders as টানা Superintendent of 
Police and to post him to the Headquarters station 
of the Burdwan district with effect from the date 
on which he assumes charge. 


বম্ধমান-পশ্চিমবজ্প শিল্পাশ্াজক mates বাঁছলী।-নং ২৯৮৫জ,এ।- 
off-site SO BID ১৯৫৬ ہج ک>منسس‎ জেলার অফেক্ষাধীন উপ- 
আরক্ষাধাক্ষ শ্রীশ্যামলচন্দ্রু মজুমদার কার্য্যভার গ্রহণের তাঁরখ হইতে 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গের শিক্পার্পলিক সংরক্ষিত বাঁহনলীর সহ-আধনায়ক Tae 
হইলেন। 


Burdwan. — No. 2985G.A./3P-1/56. — 10th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to post 
Shri Shyamal Chandra Mazumdar, Deputy 
Superintendent of Police, on probation, Burdwan, 
as Assistant Commandant, Industrial Area Reserve 
Forces, West Bengal, with effect from the date on 
which he assumes charge. 


কাঁককাতা-হাওড়া+ নং ২১৮৬ জি,এ।৩পি-১1৫৬ ৮১০ ই আগস্ট 
৯৯৫৬ سے‎ ×77 5 অস্থায়ী চাল সংস্থার On-air চার 
وو‎ পদে face অস্থায়ী উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ শ্রীপৃলিনাবহারণী 
ব্যানাক্তশ sete গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে হাওড়া জেলার সদরে উপ- 
আরক্ষাধ্ক্ষ fre হইলেন। 


এ 


2986G.A./3P-1/56. — 


Calcutta-Howrah.—No. 
10th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Pulin Behari Banerji, officiating 
Deputy Superintendent of Police now employed as 


a Deputy Central Intelligence Officer, Subsidiary 
Intelligence Bureau, Calcutta, on release, to act 
until further orders as Deputy Superintendent of 
Police and to post him to the headquarters station 
of the Howrah district with effect from the date on 
which he assumes charge. 


নং ২৯৬ণ৭াজ,এ।৩পি-১1৫৬।--১০ই ۹۳۳ ৯৯৫৬ ।--অবকাশভোগধ 
উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ শ্রীপ্রকাশচন্দ্র মজুমদার অবকাশাজ্তে কার্য্যভার গ্রহণের 
তাঁরখ হইতে পশ্চিমবঙ্গের চার শাখার উপ-আরক্ষাধ্ক্ষ নিষুস্ত হইলেন। 


No. 2987G.A./3P-1/56.—10th August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to post Shri Prokash 
Chandra Mazumdar, Deputy Superintendent of 
Police, on leave, to the Intelligence HKranch, West 
Bengal, with effect from the date on which he 
re-assumes charge on the expiry of the leave. 


২৪-পরগণা।-নং ২৯৮৮জ,এ।৩পি-১1৬৬1--১০ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬1. 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গের চার শাখার অবেক্ষাধশন উপ-আরক্ষাধাক্ষ শ্লীহেমেল্্নাথ নায় 
SATS গ্রহণের তাঁরখ হইতে ২৪-পরগণা জেলার সদরে উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ 
TRIE হইলেন। 


24-Parganas.—No. 2988G.A./3P-1/456. — 10th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to post 
Shri Hemendra Nath Roy, Deputy Superintendent 
of Police, on probation, Intelligence Branch, West 
Bengal, to the headquarters station of the 24. 
Parganas district with effect from the date on 
which he assumes charge. 


২৪-পরগণা-হুগলণ।--নং ২৯৮৯জি,এ।৩পি-১।৫৬।-+১০ই আগস্ট 
১৯৮৬।--২৪-পরগণা জেলার উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ শ্রীদীপঞ্কর সান্যাল কার্ষ- 
ভার গ্রহণের তারিখ হইতে হৃগলশ জেলার শ্রীরামপুর মহফুমার আরঙ্গা 
RAM ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


24-Parganas-Hooghly.—No. 2989G.A./3P-1/56.-— 
10th August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to 
post Shri Dipankar Sanyal, Deputy Superintendent 
of Police, 24-Parganas, to the Serampur subdivi- 
sion of the Hooghly district to have charge of the 
Police work of that subdivision with effect from 
the date on which he assumes charge. | 


নদশয্লা+_নং ২৯৯০জি,এ।৩পি-১1৫৬ +-১০ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬1 
অবকাশভোগশী উপ-আরক্ষারাক্ষ ভ্রীগৌরীপ্রসাদ ঘোষ কার্ধাভার 
তারিখ হইভে নদীয়া cena রাপাঘাট মহকুমার আরক্ষা SET, ভার- 
প্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 3 

Nadia.—No. 29900.۸۰. / 3P-1/56.—10th -August 
1956.—The Governor is pleased to post Shri Goun 
Prosad Ghosh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, 
on leave, to the Ranaghat subdivision of the Nadia 
district to have charge of the Police work of that 
subdivision with effect from the date on which he 
assumes charge. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


Confirmation 


No. 38052G.A.—16th August, 1956.—In super- 
session of the orders contained in this department 
notification No. 3151G.A., dated the 19th Septem- 
ber 1955, the Governor is pleased to confirm the 
officers, named below, in, the West Bengal Higher 
Judicial Service with effect from the dates shown 


® 
ধু 


against their names: × 
(1) Shri Bikash Chandra Ghosh—lst January 
1954. : 


(2) ner Kalipada Mukherjee—lst January 
1964. 


(3) کت‎ রর Hrishikesh Ganguli—ist January 


Part T] 


(4) Shri Pramatha Nath Lahin—lIst 1900 ۳٦۷ 
1954. 

(5) 2257 Prosad Bakshi—!st March 
1964. 


(6) Shri Palas Chandra Pal—Ist April 1954. 


Leave. 


সাধারণ | 
General, 
؛جے 0۹ہچ‎ ৩০১৩জি,এ।২ইএল-১৮।৫৬।--১৩ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-- 
ছুগলশ জেলার আরামবাগের উপ-শাসক ও AMES শ্লীননগোপাল 
মৃখোপাধ্যায়কে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ কৃতাক নিয়মবলশর ১৮৪(খ)(২) ধারানুযায়? 
sok সেপ্টেম্বর ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ হইতে চার মাসের গড় বেতনে ছুট? 
দেওয়া 1۱ 
Hooghly. — No. 3013G.A. /21,-18/56. — 13th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Nani Gopal Mukharji, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, Arambagh, Hooghly, leave on 
averuge pay for four months with effect from the 


11011) September 1956 under rule 184(b)(ii) 91 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
নি, N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


EL ETE 


২৪-পরগণা ৮-নং ২১৭৪কি,এ।৩এল-২১1৫৬।--১০ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬। 
-_২৪-পরগণা জেলার শিয়ালদহের অবর উপ-শাসক ও সমাহর্তা 
হ্বীঅমূলাচন্দ্র সর্বজ্ঞকে পশ্চিমবঙ্ধা wore নিয়মাবলীর (৯ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) 
সংখ্যক নিয়মান্সারে ছুটপ গ্রহণের যে কোন তারখ হইতে উনিশ দিনের 
আর্জত el se করা হইয়াছিল। 


এতঙ্বারা ওরা জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখের ২৫৭৪জ,এ, নং প্রজ্ঞাপন 


পারবার্তত করা হইল। 
24-Parganas.—No. 2974G.A. /8L-21/56. — 10th 
Xugust 1956.—In modification of the orders 


contained in this department notification No. 2574- 
(.A., dated the Srd July 1956, the Governor was 
pleased to allow Shri Amulya Chandra Sarbajna, 
Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, 
Sealdah, 24-Parganas, earned leave for nineteen 
days with effect from the date he muy avail him- 
২11 of it under rule 167(ii) of the Weat Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, 


4-Parganas.—-No.  3012G.A./31,-24156.—138th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Amulya Bhusan Mukharjee, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, Alipore., 
24-Parganas, leave on average pay for four months 
with effect from the 2nd September 1956 under 
fale 9, of West Bengal Service Rules, 
art [. 


WUT :جس‎ ৩০২ ২জ,এ।৩এল-২৭।৫৬1-১৩ই আগস্ট sdaul— 
বর্ধমান জেলার অধর উপ-শাসক ও সমাহত্তা প্ীশৈলেন্দ্রনাথ চক্ষবত্তশিকে 
পাশ্চমবঙ্গ gore ) ×٣۹ ی‎ খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখাক 7 
اذ‎ আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ হইতে একুশ দিনের আর্জত ছটা 7 
করা হুইল। 

Burdwan. - No, 3022G.4./80-27 76, — 13th 


August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Sailendra Nath Chakraborty, Sub-Deputy 


TOE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 28, 1956 


3176 


ہیں ےڈ 


Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, Burdwau, 
earned Jeave fur twenty-one 105৭ with effect from 
the 2196 August 1956 under rule 167(i1) of the 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


চি 


আরক্ষা। 
Police. 
২৪-পরগণপা।-নং ৩০২৯জ,এ1৫এল-১1৫৬1--১০ই আগস্ট sade! 
--২৪-পরগণা জেলার বারাকপুরের তৃতীয় সশস্ত্র আরক্ষাবাহিনীর অধ্যক্ষ 
প্রীনীহাররঞ্জন বসন, আই,প,এস-কে ১৯৫৫ সালের সর্বভারতীয় সেবা 
(ছুট) 'নিয়মাবলশর ১১৫১) সংখ্যক নয়মানুলারে ২০শে 8۴۳۳ ১৯৬৬ 
তারিখ হইতে অথবা তাঁহার ছুটিতে যাইবার তারিখ হইতে একুশ দিনের 
Ses ELT মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 
24-Parganas.—No. 3029G.A./5L-1/56 — 18th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to allow 
Shri Nihar Ranjan Bose, I.P.S., Commandant, 3rd 
Armed Police Battalion, Barrackpore, 24-Parganas, 
earned leave for twenty-one days with effect from 
the 20th August 1956, or any subsequent date of 


relief, under rule 11(1) of the All India Service 
(Leave) Rules, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


مسمسیسیںںں مہ 


নং ২৯৯১জ,এ।৫এল-১৪ 1৫৬ 1--১০ই আগস্ট sade بہ٠‎ 
চার শাখার উপ-আরক্ষাধ্যক্ষ শ্রীপ্রকাশচন্দ্র মজুমদারকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ কৃত্যক 
1নবমাবলশর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৮৪(খ)(২) সংখ্যক নিরমানূসারে ২৫শে মে 
১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ হইতে ১৪ই আগস্ট ৯৯৫৬ তারিখ পর্যন্ত পুরা গড় 
বেতনে ELT মঞ্জংর করা ۱ 


٠ 


No. 2991G.A./51L-14/56. —- 10th August 1956. 
—The Governor is pleased to allow Shri Prokash 
(handra Mazumdar, Deputy Superintendent of 
Police, Intelligence Branch, West Bengal, leave on 
average pay for the period from the 25th May 1956 
to the 14th August 1956 under rule 184(b)(ii) of 
the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order .of the (iovernor, 


T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


Defence 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 125:211 D./1T-11/55Pt.—7th August م196‎ 


appoint 


—The Governor ia .. 6 to 
Shri Satechidananda Bandopadhyay, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, Baraset, 


act until further orders as 
West Bengal Nattonal 
Volunteer Force Training Centre, Kalyani, rice 
Shri Bhupesh Chandra Das Gupta, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, transferred. 


24-Parganas, to 2 
Administrative Officer, 


By order of the Governor, 
I. B. SURITA, 


State Defence Co-ordinatin 
Officer and Dy. ۰ 


3176 THE CAILCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 28, 1956 Parr I 
Police 
NOTIFICATION 


89119816811. 10. 2910P1./P.2A-27/52.—3lst July 1956—In exercise of the 
power conferred by section 2 of the Bengal Public Gambling Act, 1867 (Bongal Act 
II of 1867), the Governor is pleased to extend all the sections of the said Act (except 
section 13 which already applies) to the mouzas mentioned below within the Sadar 
and Alipur Duar subdivisions of the Jalpaiguri district سح‎ 


Name of Mouza. 


Chamurchi Tea Garden 
Lakshmipara Tea Garden 
Banarhat Tea Garden 
Nagaisuri Tea Garden 
Matiali Hat 

Atiabari Tea Garden 
Mathura Tea Garden 
Nimtijhora Tea Garden 
Chuniajhora Tea Garden ITT 
Chuniajhora Tea Garden a 
11. Ramjhora Tea Garden 

12, Hosainabad Tea Garden 

13. Mujnai Tea Garden ~ 

14. Nangdala Tea Garden 

15. Birpara Tea Garden 


০ PN eae wn سر‎ 


سس 
- 


16. Dimdima Tea Garden 

17. Dalgaon Tea Garden 

18. Ethelbari Tea Garden 

19. Sarugaon Tea Garden 

20. Kalchini Tea Garden 

21. Kartika Rydak Tea Garden 
22. Rahimabad Tea Garden 

23. Jainti Tea Garden 


Jurisdiction Name of Police 
list No. Station. 


133 Dhupguri. 
143 Ditto. 
156 Ditto. 
137 Matiali. 
146 Ditto. 
ss 26 Kalchini. 
67 Alipur Duar. 
40 Kalchini. 
211 Kumargram. 
213 Ditto. 
33 (314081108۰ 


43 Ditto. 
30 Nitto. 
46 Ditto. 
45 Ditto. 
47 Ditto, 
67 Falakata. 
55 Ditto. 
00 Ditto, 


29 Kalchini. 
208 Kumargram. 
210) Ditto. 
216 Ditto. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, Secy. 


a 


POLICE DIRECTORATE 


Orders by the Inspoctor General of Police, 
West Bengal 

No. 6734A.—4th August 1956.—C. ۰ا‎ D., West 
Bengal, Catcutta-Burdwan.—Shri Sarojendra Nath 
Ghosh, Inspector, C. I. D., West Bengal, now 
temporarily attached to the Subsidiary Jntell- 
gence Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs, Govern- 
ment of India, Calcutta, to act as Deputy Central 
Intelligence Officer there, is, on reversion to West 
Bengal Police, posted temporarily to Burdwan, in 
the interest of public service, vice Shri Bibbuti 
(10191 Biswas, Inspector, Burdwan, transferred. 


H. N. SIRCAR, Inspector-General. 


৮০০ 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, 
TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT, CALCUTTA 


NOTIFICATIONS. 
Dated Calcutta, the 26th July 1956. 


Tn exercise of the powers vested in me under 
rule 1L01(b) of the Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 
1940, ٤ hereby give the following directions for 


the conduct of the place bounded on the north by 
Ochterlony Road, on the south by the vacant 
maidan land situated at the north-eastern. corner 
of the Ochterlony Monument, on the east by the 
tram lines and on the west by the new Asphalt 
Road within the town of Calcutta, which area has 
already been notified us a Bus Stand by virtue 91 
powerg vested in me under rule 101(a) of the said 
rules :— 


(1) Buses of Routes 12, 12A and 12B and of 
Routes 32 and 382A only shall use the 
land mentioned above as a halting place. 


(2) & fee of Rs 10 shall be charged = yur 
month from the owners of Buses of the 
routes mentioned in (1) above for the 
parking of each Bus at the Bus Stand 
notified above, 


(3) The Director of Operations, Directorate of 
Transportation, 1711] Mission Row ۵۳۵۲" 
sion, Caleutta, who has been authorised 
in this respect by the State Government 
under Government order Not 4538-WT/ 
T6T-1/64, dated 4th July 1956, shall 
realive the fee of Rs. 10 per Bus per mouth 
from the owners of Buses or routes ۵(۰ 
tioned iu (1) above, 


Parr T] 


হি 
না 
(4) The Director of Operations, 0 of 
Transportation, P-11 Mission Row Hxten- 
sion, Caleutta, shall also undertake 
normal repairs and muintenance 01 the 
said Bus Stand area under conditions 
specified in (rovernment order mentioned 
in (3) ubove. 


In exercise of the powers conferred on me by 
ule 10} (a) of the Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 
i940, ا‎ hereby notify that the place bounded by 
Ochtelony Road on the north, tram lines on the 
east and new Asphalt Road on the west and ۶٤ 
maidan land on the south, situated at the prortli- 
eastern corner of the Ochterlony Monument within 
the town of Calcutta, is a Bus Stand for public 
aervice vehicles for the purpose of taking wh or 
setting down of passengers or both and for 000 
used as a place of halt by spassengers, which place 
is demarcated ا‎ traffie sign inscribed “Bus 
Stand’’. 


H. শি. GHOSE CHAUDHURI, Commissioner. 


উন্নয়ন (রাস্তা) Teor | 
DEVELOPMENT (ROADS) DEPARTMENT 


প্রজ্ঞাপণ। 
NOTIFICATION 
নং ৩১ডি,ই।--২৩শে মে ১৯৫৬।--নদীয়া fasts oles অধশন 
gua নির্মাণ শাখার ভারপ্রাপ্ত went সহ-বাস্তৃকার শ্রীতরুণকুমার 
রায় চৌধুরীকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ see নিয়মাবলশর ১ম ٭‎ ১৬৮৫১) সংখাক 
MAAS Sek নভেম্বর ১৯৫৪ তাঁরথ হইতে ই৩শে নভেম্বর sacs 
Olay পর্যান্ত ছয় 'দনের আর্জত ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইয়াছিল। 


রমেম্দ্রল্দ্র রায়, 
মৃখ্য 7ج11۴‎ ۱ 

No. ۹411(/ 1.281 May 1956.—Shri Tarun 

Kumar 180৮ Chowdhury, temporary Assistant 


Engineer-in-charge of the Krishnagar Construc- 
tion Subdivision under the Nadia Construction 
Division, wag allowed earned leave for six days 
from 1&th November 1954 to 23rd November 1954, 
both days inclusive, under rule 168(1) of the West 
1০188] Service Rules, Part I. 


R. C. ROY, Chief Engineer. 


বিচার ۱ 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 
নং Oss Q trai 
No. 8112G.A. 
WHET | 
Powers. 
THEM مے‎ ৩০১৪কজ,এ1২1প-৫৭1৫৬1-১৩ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-- 


বীরভূম জেলায় wey উপ-শাসক শ্রীভগবত হসিদাকে তৃতশয় শ্রেণশর 
শাসকের ক্ষমতা অপণ করা হইল । 


Birbhum. — No. 901409.8 121১7577156, — 179) 
August 1956,—The Governor is pleased to vest 
Shri Bhagawat Hansdah, Sub-Deputy Magistrate, 
Birbhum, with the powers of a magistrate of the 
third class. 


٠8-98۹1 ۱٦ج‎ ٢٣ ৩০২৭জি,এ।২প-৫81৫৬।--১৩ই WING saey — 
২৪স্পরগপা জেলার আঁঙলপুরের উপ-শাসক শ্রীতেজবাহাদুর ۴ 
“55:۱۹ সংহতার ২৬০ ধারায় বার্ণত অপরাধের বিচার কারবার ক্ষমতা 
অর্পণ করা হইল। 


24-Parganas.—No. 3027G.A./2P-51/56.—13th 
August 1956— The Governor is pleased to vest 
Shri Tej Bahadur Singh, Deputy Mugistrate, 
Alipore, 24-Parganas, with the powers فا‎ try 
suinmarily the offences mentioned in section 260 
OF the Code of Criminal Procedure. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 0017 


পশ্চিম দিলাজপযর নং ৩০৩০জি,এ।২পি-৫৫1৫৬।--১৩ই আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬।--পশ্চিম দিনাজপুরের উপ-শাসক' শ্রীবীরেন্দ্ুনাথ মণ্ডলকে দশ্ড- 
প্রণালীর aes ২৬০ ধারায় বার্ণত অপরাধের বিচার করিবার ক্ষমতা 
অর্পণ করা হইল। 


West Dinajpur.—No. 3030G.A. /2P-54 /56.—13th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest 
Shri Birendra Nath Mondal, Deputy Magistrate. 
West Dinajpur, with the powers to try summarily 
the offences mentioned in section 260 of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure. 


মোদলীপুর ।-নং ৩০৩৭জি,এ।২পি-৫৬1৫৬।--১৪ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬। 
_মোঁদনীপদর জেলার ঝাড়গ্রামের অধর উপ-শাসক শ্রীঅশ্বিনীকুমার wars 
প্রথম শ্রেণীর শাসকের ক্ষমতা অর্পণ করা হইল ۱ 


Midnapore.—No. 3037G.A. /2P-56/56. — 14th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest 
Shri Aswini Kumar Dutta, Sub-Deputy Magistrate, 
Jhargram, Midnapore, with the powers of a 
magistrate of the first class. ~ 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSTT, Under Secy. 


RNAS ME LETS 


Judicial 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 4963J.—7th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 4 
of the West Bengal Criminal Taw Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1949), the Governor is pleased to distribute to 
the West Bengal 2nd Special Court constituted by 
notification No. 46323., dated 22nd August 1952, 
under section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving offences specified in the schedule to the 
said Act, to be tried by the said Special Court :— 


Case 


The State versus (1) Palan Ali Gharami, clerk 
of Union Board 11 of Mathurapur, son of 
late Darastulla Gharami, of village Manik- 
tala, police-station Mathurapur, district 
24-Parganas, under sections 120B/409, 
Indian Penal Code, (2) Yajuddin Gazi, son 
of Samaruddin Gazi, Kast Ranaghat, police- 
station Mathurapur, district 24-Parganas, 
under sections 120B/409, Indian Penal Code, 
(3) Ahammad Ali Paik, son of Arfan Ali 
Paik, East Ranaghat, police-station Mathu- 
rapur, district 24-Parganas, under sections 
120B/409, Indian Penal Code, and (4) Jonab 
Ali (Gtharami, Tax Collector, Union Board 
11 of Mathurapur, son of late Darastulla 
Gharami, of village Maniktola, police-sta- 
tion Mathurapur, district 24-Parganas, 
under sections 409 and 120B/409, Indian 
Penal Code. 


No. 4966J.—7th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1949), the Governor ig pleased to distribute to 
the West Bengal 2nd Special Court constituted by 
notification No. 4632J., dated 22nd August 1952, 
under section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
the said Act, to be tried by the said Special 
Court :— 

Case 


The State versus (1) Monoj Mohan Mukherjee, 
Head Clerk, Khardah Municipality, (2) 
Gopal Chandra Ghosh, Tax Daroga, Khar- 
dah Municipality, and (8) Bhagloo Hela, 
Jamadar, Khardah Municipality—all the 
three accused are charged under sections 
420/120B, Ludinn Penal Code. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K, DAS, Dy. heacy, 


3178 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


[Parr 1 


مہ 


Registration 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Malda-Bankura.—No. 606GReen.—7th August 
1966.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Shni 
Abdul Wajed, District Sub-Registrar of Malda, on 
leave, to be District Sub-Registrar of Bankura, 
with effect from 13th August 1956. 


Bankura-Burdwan.—No. 6GO07Regn.—Tth August 
1986.—The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
Surendra Chandra Chakraborty, District Sub- 
Registrar of Bankura, to be District Sub-Regis- 
irar of Burdwan, with effect from the date on which 
he assumes charge of office. 


Burdwan-24-Parganas. — No. 608Regn. — 7th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Sukumar Chakrabatti, officiating District Sub- 
Registrar of Burdwan, to be Joint Sub-Registrar 
of Caleutta, with effect from the date on which he 
assumes charge of office. 


24-Parganas.—No. 609Regn.—The Governor 18 
pleased to appoint Shri Sukumar Pathak, proba- 
tionary Sub-Registrar, who has been acting as 
Joint Sub-Registrar of Calcutta, to act as Sub- 
Registrar of 24-Parganas to be ordinarily stationed 
at the headquarters of the district of the 24-Par- 
ganas, with effect from the date on which he joins. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 


ব্যান 


Finance 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 22827, /F/1T-4(100)/56.—3rd August 1956. 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) 
of article 283 of the Constitution of India, the 
Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ment in the Treasury Rules, Weat Bengal, and the 
Subsidiary Rules made thereunder, Volume I, 
namely :—~ 


Page 66.—S8. নি, 169(1), Note (a). 


Insert the following as item (iii) under the said 
Note :— 


“Judgment-debtor. Officers to whom notices 


should be sent. 


(iii) Servante of local autho. Chairman or Administrator, 5৪ 
ritios. the case may be, of the local 
authority under which the 

judgment-debtor is 20০৭ 


ployed.” 


No. 3297F./F /2E-1(64) /56.—4th August 1956. 
—In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to article 309 of the Constitution of India, 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
rules regulating the recruitment of Junior 
Acrounts Officer in the Secretariat Accounts 
Department سے‎ 


(1) These rules may be called the West Bengal 
(general Services (Recruitment of Junior 
Accounts Officer) Rules, 1956. 


> 
و‎ "0+08 sae to the post of Junior Accounts 
17০৪1 shall be made— 


(a) By a member of the West Bengal Junior 
Civil Service who has been trained in 
Treasury work; or 


(b) By promotion from among the permanent 
Accountant, Treasurer, - Assistant 
Accountants and Assistant Treasurers 
of the Secretariat Accounts Department. 


(3) The incumbent of the post of 
Accounts Officer shall draw— 


Junior 


(i) if recruited from the West Bengal Junior 
Civil Service, his grade play plus a 
special pay of Rs. 50; 


(ii) if filled by promotion, pay in the scale of 
Rs. 3800—20—400 plus a special pay of 
Rs. 50 per month. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


Taxation 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 1677F.T.—3rd August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to allow Shri A, K. Ray, Com- 
mercial Tax Officer, Grade I, leave on medical 
certificate for three months from 38rd May 1956 
to 2nd August 1956 under rule 173(1) and (3) of 
ihe West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


No. 1684F.T.—3rd August 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to allow Shri Krishna Kishore Kar, 
Deputy Superintendent, State Statistical Bureau, 
West Bengal, earned leave on medical grounds 
for ninety days with effect from the 6th Marvh 
1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Fart I, and in continuation leave 
on medical certificate for one month and_ three 
days with effect from 4th June 1956 to the Gth 
July 1956 under rule No. 173(1) ibid. 


No. 1G87F.T.—3rd August 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to decide that the I'inance (Taxation 
Department notification No. 1358F.T., dated the 
%rd June 1956, reverting Shri Pran Gopal 
Joarder, officiating Agricultural Income-tax 
Officer, Grade II, to the post of Inspector of Agri- 
cultural Income-tax, West Bengal, should — be 
treated as cancelled. 


No. 1750F.T.—10th August  1956,—The 
Governor is pleased to direct that the services of 
Shri Jaulal Chobey, a temporary Commercial Tax 
Ofticer, Grade 11, West Bengal, will not be re- 
quired with effect from the date on which he 
makes over charge. 


No. 1757F.T.—llth August  1956.—The 
Governor was pleased to allow Shri Shyama 
Sankar Banerjee, Agricultural Income-tax Oilcer, 
Grade IL, Nadia Range, Krishnagar, eraned leave 
for the period from the 16th July 1956 to the 201 
July 1956, under rule 168(1) of the West Bengul 
Service Rules, Part I, 


15৮11] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 8119 


No. 17081711111 August 1956.---The 
(joveruor 8 pleased to post Shri Ramani Mohan 
Mazumdar, Commercial Tax Officer, Lyons Range 
Charge, Caleulia, to the Central Section, West 
Bengal, Caleutta, with effect from the date on 
which he assumes charpe. 


No. [7A9F.T.—11 th August 1956.—The 
Governor is pleased to post Shri Abul Fazl, 
(ommercial Tax Officer, Canning  oireet, 


District TY Charge, Calcutta, to the Central 
Section, West Bengal, Calcutta, with effect from 
the dute on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1761F.T.—l1]th August 1956.—This Depart- 
ment notification No, 2814F.'T., dated the 29th 
Decenber.1955, appointing Shri Narayan Chandra 
Banerji, M.A. (Com.), C.A., son of late Ramesh 
Chandra Banerji, on probation, to the West 
Bengal Commercial Tax Service, is hereby 


cancelled. 


শি 


By order of the Governor, 
13. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


EXCISE DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 716Kx.—10th August 1956.—The Governor 
was pleased to post Shri Debesh Chandra Sen 
Gupta, Superintendent of Excise, to the Excise 
Directorate on return from his deputation under 
the Government of India as Officer on Special 
Duty (Excise), Port Blair, with effect from the 
10th July 1956, until further orders, 


No. 671Ex.—28th July 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to post Shri Debesh Chandra Sen Gupta, 
বিন ہو گر‎ of Excise, on leave, to the Excise 
Directorate as Personal Assistant to the Commis- 
sioner of Excise, West Bengal, with effect from 
the date on which he assumes charge on the expiry 
of his leave wice Shri Amuya Nath Majumdar 
(granted leave), 


No. 698Kx.—4th August 1956.—The Governor 
۱۹ pleused to appoint Shri Jyotsnamoy Ray, 
Superintendent of Excise, Foreign Liquor Branch, 
ہا‎ act, in addition to his own duties, as Personal 
Axsistant to the Commissioner of Excise, Weat 
Bengal, with effect from the lat August 1956 until 
further orders, rice Shri Amiya Nath Majumdar, 
Branted leave, 


This cancels the order coytained in notification 
No. G71Ex., dated the 28th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


পশ্চিমবঙ্গ বাণিজ্যকর আঁধকার। 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES, 
WEST BENGAL 


215115 ۱ 
NOTIFICATIONS 
নং ৯৩৩৩ি,ট।-৬ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-কুচাঁবহার কার্ধাভারের 
বাণিজাকর আঁধকারিক (২য় পর্য্যায়) শ্রীসুধীরচন্দ্র বেরাকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ 
yee নিয়মাবলীর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক নিয়মানসারে ২০শে 
জুন ১৯৫৬ হইতে ২৯শে জুন ১৯৫৬ পর্যন্ত দশ দিনের অজিত ছুটি 
মঞ্জর করা হইয়াছিল। 


No. 9333C.T.—6th August 1956.—Shri Sudhir 
Chandra Bera, Commercial Tax Officer, Grade IT. 
30061) Behar Charge, was granted earned leave 
for ten days from 20th June 1956 to 29th June 
1956 under rule 167(i1) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


নং ৯৪৬৫স,ট।--৯ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ ।--আসানসোল কার্ধাভারের 
বাঁপজ্যকর আধকারক (২য় পর্যায়) Raiser গৃপ্তকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গা gore 
নয়মাবলীর (ST খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫২) সংখ্যক নিয়মানুসারে ২৮শে জুন 
১৯৫৬ হইতে ১৮ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ ware چی‎ দিনের afew ছুটি 
মঞ্জর করা হইয়াছিল। 


এ, ۹, 
মহাধাক্ষ। 


No. 9465C.T.—9th August 1956,—Shri Rabikar 
(jupta, Commercial Tax Officer, Grade IT, 
Asansol Charge, was granted earned leave for 
twenty-one days from 28th June 1956 to 18th July 
1956 under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


No. &84C.T,.—9th August 1956.—In pursuance of 
thé provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 27A of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, it is notified for 
general information that the following declaration 
forfns have been reported to be lost, destroyed or 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whom 
these declaration forms were issued and are invalid 
for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Saleg 
Tax) Act, 1941, and Bengal Sales Tax Rules: — 


Serial No, of the declaration Name, address and registration 
forma reported to be lost, certificate number of the re. 
deatro or stolen. gistered dealer to whom issued 

and from whom lost, destroyed 
or stolen. 


(1) (2) 


Moaars. Billa Hosiery, 13 Upper 
Chitporo Road, Calcutta. 
BDI/1966A. 


esara. Mahadeo Ram Shaw, 
ر75‎ Kailash Bose Street, Cal- 
cutta. BDI/686A. 


1, A/1-402598 


৯৩ 


۸۰1 


Mosars. Tho West Bengal Paper 
House Private Ltd., 72/73 
Old Chinabazar Strecat, Cal- 
outta. 03111115228, 


3. A/1-685376 and 
A/1-085377 


Messrs. S. K. Bhattacharjee & 
Co., 138 Canning Street, Cal- 
cutta. (41711115295. 


4. ۸01 


5. A/5-538113—A/5-538150 Mosers, D. J. Mohta & 0০০ 
113 Monohardas Chowk 
ee No. 157), Calcutta. 
CSIV /1641A. 


Mesars. Technical (India) Pri- 
vate Ltd, 62 Joynarayan 
Babu Ananda Dutta Lane, 
Howrah. 111۷/1419۰ 


6. A/5-203262 
A/5-203203 
A/5-203264 
68ھ‎ 


3180 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1986 [Parr | 
0 rrr aaa 


No. 81C.T.—9th August 1956.—In pursuance registered dealers together with n description of 

of the Eee of section 9 of the Benga] Finance 4] 7 
ie goods covered by their i 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), £ red by their registration certificates 
Ke following names and addresses of newly are published for general information :— 
Serial §Name of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No and date Goods for use in manufacture or Goods for resale. 
No. of business laco of of registration in the execution of contracts. 
usiness. certificate. 
1 ৪ 8 4 6 ‘ 7 
1 Plastics Machinery 4 Upper Chitpore Road, সা BDI/2674A, (1) Raw materials, er, ink, Plastic raw materials, 
Distributors. Calcutta, 27-9-56. block for '' کے اس‎ a machinery, plastic finished al 


colouring ‘materials for 
(2) Plant, و تس‎ spare parts ng or plastica, 
and accessorios, 


(3) Conaumable stores. এ 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from paymont 
৪১1১৪ is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
pristing of * Plastic Journal £? 
or sale 


2 Dharambir Prosad 166 Upper Circular Road, 7 ب0‎ (1) Raw materials, gold, silver, Gold and silver ornaments. 
5 Prosad * Calcutta. 27-7-0, 100193161)19, 
Qu 


(2) Plant, machinery, apare parte 
and accessories. 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exomption from payment of 
aales is claimed are intended 

٠ for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
pamed below '—- 

(4) Gold and 81161 ornaments 
for sale. 


۴) 


83 Anau Battery Co. -» 148A Upper Circular 1 9 hac (1) Raw materials ১, .. Beparator cell cover, — container, 
Read, Calcutta. 80-7-6, sealing component, acid, welding 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts gas, plant, dice. 
and accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales 15 Claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سے‎ 


(6) Storage battery for sale. , 


4 A. M, industries *০ 108-15-4 Ultadanga Main ei رڈ رط‎ (1) Raw materials, ingredients... Plywood. 
Road, Calcutta.- 90-7-66. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parta 
and accessories, 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales ia claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of g named 
below :—- 


(it) Plywood for aale. 


5 National Timber 15-1A Nirode Behary ee BDI/2678A, (1) Raw materials, logs .. Logs, packing boxes, planks 
Industry. Mullick Lane, 80-7-56. 
Calcutta. (2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 


(8) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales is claimed are poten 
for use in the actual] process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سب‎ 


(i) Planks and packing boxes 
for sale. 


اس 


কি Mesers. Rawatmal 144 Cotton Street, 7 BDI1/2746A, TT 1318۰, سا‎ 000 bags, = wheat, 
Mohanlal. Calcutta. 81-0. rape seed, mustard seed, 10004, 
and arhar. 

7 Nationa! Variety Stores 4০] Justice Dwarka Nath 2 کے روم‎ Aluminium ware, 81111101010) war 
Road, Caleutta. 28-7-56 circles, enamel ‘ware, provislon! 
toilets, stationery, confectioner 

oilman stores, 
$ Seuth Asin Industries 62 Hazra Road, Calcutta 7 BH/2824A, (1) Baw materials .. -» Electrical goods, eil painta, wood 
Private Ltd, 28-7-56. acid, machine parts, motor cart 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte trucka, jeaps,, 8000۵۲۸۰. 00 
and سا . 8ھ‎ motor parts and ৪০০৬ 
sorles, 
(8) Consumable stores, viz., acid, 
রর gan, grease, oil. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment 
88198 tax ۱۸ claimed are intended 
for nee in the actual proress of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سم‎ 


€) Machine parta, Implements, 
bodies of eet 


1১471 1 | 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ANGUST 23, 1956 


313] 


৯ 


Serial Name of the doalor, Address and chief placa Additional No and date Goods for use in manufacture or Goods for resale. 
No. of business, lace of of registration in the execution of contracts. 
10118۰ certificate. 
1 2 8 4 ৪ 6 7 
9 Popular Medical Hall... 49-1 Watgun Street, : BH/2826A, (1) Raw materials ,, Injections, patents, tablets, ->. 108 
Calcutta. 31-7-56. water, cotton, bandage, dettol, 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts syrup, d.d.t. apray, hafr oil, 
and accessorivs, 1 toot brush, 
(3) Consumable stores, .تا‎ 
tinctures, 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax {a claimed are ) 4 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 
(+) Prescriptions, 
10 Eamalsagar Auto Bervice Keshabganj, Burdwan BN/1167A, ee Petrol, petroleum product, motor 
1-38-56. parte and acccasorics. 
11 Kashiram Rathi .. N.N. Road, Cooch Behar سے ات سا و‎ Tobacco leaves. 
12 Dey Brothers ee Dinhata, district Cooth CB/628A, Bhoes, hardware goods, stat 
Behar. 817-0۰. goods, umbrella and soning 
goods, 

18 Messrs. India Bobbin 185 Canning Street, + 600.0] ۰, ৪৪৪৪ Leather and hair beltings. 
Industries. Calcutta. 1-7-56. 

14 Messrs. Srinath Bajaj .. 178 Harrison Road, és 091৬1923534, me Non-ferrous metals, textiles, 

Calcutta. 20-7-56. hassian and gunny bags, spices 
and kirana, রা of] and 
oll seeds, of] cakes, tea, hardware, 
coal, paper and atationery. 
& Messrs. Krishnad Co, .. 15۲ Netaji Subhas Road, - CSIV /2365A, ৪5৯৮ Hardware, heasian, gunnies, ; 
? Calcutta. 21756, twine, iron and stool files, سس‎ 
drills, reamers, tools, rods, sheets, 
pipes pipe-fittings, accessories, 
tings, beitfasteners, bolts, 
nuts,  riveta, sand-papers, 
emery cloth, grinding, wheels, 
nalls, wires, brass, copper, sinc. 
6 Messrs. Sreelal Mahoswari P-9 Pageyapatty Street, ৮৪ (97151239565, pens Toxtilea. 
1 1 و‎ Calcutta. 24-7-56. 
17 Messrs. Dulal Knitting 18 Pageyapatty Street, Ks CSIV/2357A, (1) Raw materials. Rosiery finished goods. 
Mills. Calcutta. 24-7-66. 
(2) Plant machinery, spare parte 
and accessories. 
(3) Consumable stores, viz., elec- 
trical bulbe. 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for uee in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods as 
hoslery thans. 
18 Mesere. Sarashi Mohan 167 Netaji! Subas Road, ۶7 081۷/2808۸۰, وو‎ 78118 (new, old, broken) made 
anick. Calcutta, 25-7-66, : of brass, copper, bellmetal, white- 
metal, aluminium, stainless 
steel, electro-plating. 
® Messrs. B. Sarkar & Co, 62/4/1/1A Netaji Subhas ee 00/4, woes Tron, steel, wire, wire-producte 

দিনত URE Calcutta. 25-17-56. and hardware. . 

20 Mesara. Indra Mohan 157 Netaji Subhas Road, ۰ CSIV /2860A, 20 Utensils (new, old, ات‎ made 
Kanik Bhupat! Mohan (1et floor) Calcutta, ~7-56, 01 brasa, capper, bell-metal, 
Banik. room No. 08, white-metal, aluminium, gta 

leas steel, electro-plating. 

٤ Santokehand 14 Pageyapatty Street, (1) 9, Arme- CSIV/193B, 2 Yarn, textiles, umbrella and‏ - و 
Calcutta. nian Street 2-85-56. umbrolla riba.‏ .80510۸1۰ 

2nd floor), 
.۸4۰ھ‎ 

22 Messrs. Union Paper 12 Chowringhee Square, 7 KL/31654, er Paper and papor board. 
House. Calcutta. 80-۰ 

29 ھ‎ ۰ Chemical Tm- P-21 /22 Radha Bazar BRL/8i166A, eens ج*‎ 

orters and 10188. Street, Calcutta, ~8-56, 
utorms (Private) Ltd, 
24 8168৮, 9. .از‎ Kngineering 198 ۱ ,).0 ۴ ea 8 (1) Raw materials. : + ৪৪৪ 
Works. Road, Howrah. ~8-56. (2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 
Provided that all goods for which 
exempélon from payment of 
sales tax is claimed arc intended 
for use in tho manufacture of 
the goods named below س‎ 
(i) Pipe Ottings. 
> 85 41001 Hindusthan 65 Dharamtolla Road, 2 WW/17254, (1) Kaw 00860711915, "2" 
dotal Works. Salkia, 110%% 181), 2-8-56. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. i 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 


sales tax is claimed are intended * 


for uve in the actual procesa of 
085 of the geuds named 
CLOW سے‎ 


(i) Aluminium utenatis. 


3182 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 (Pang 1 


ps পা আসা س۶ا خ صلی نسیی سس ھی سس اج ان جم نھ سیف سے ا عف دا اھ ا اوج 20وہ‎ এ সপ 
ধা]. Name of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for use in manufacturo or Goods for ٥۰ 
No of business. lace of of reuistration in.the exeoution of contracte. 
0 8۰, certificate. 
1 2 8 4 5 6 7 
26 Measm. New Tobacco P.O. Alipurduar, ) ۷ me JP/1403A, ee 
Stores, Jalpaiguri. বণ مس شر شوہ سی‎ 
97 United Society 7 22 Netajt Subhas Road, 7 LR/2600A, anne Steel bara, rods, shecta, rivets, 
Calcutta. 28-7-566. nut, bolts, washers, ,7085ء‎ 


filo and hardware goods. 


28 Machino Techno (Sales) 833 Netaji Subhas Road, ke LR/2601A, দি Pipe, pipe (١ . wi 
[11৯০ Ltd. Calcutta. 30-7-56. 8 اسم‎ and ১ বা و‎ 


نس 


2@ Director of Fisherlea, Writers’ Buildings, Cal- an LR/2698A, (1) Raw matertals. ee 
Government of Weat cutta. 1-8-56, (2) Plant, 10780101008) spare parts - 
Bengal. and accessories, 
(3) Consumable sotera, 


Provided that all goods tor which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax ۱۵ claimed are inteuded 
for use In the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named beluw সপ 

(9 Dry fish. 

it) Fish meal. 

(488) Shark liver of] of various 
grades. 


80 Mesers. Tolaram Shyam 67/19 Strand Road, 7 811/245۸, من‎ Timber, teak and wood. 
Sundar. Calcutta. 28-7-6. 


31 Messrs. C. 8. Textiles . 8 Hemkar Lane, Calcutta 7 SH/2454A, (1) Raw materials. wee 
28-7-56. (2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 
(3) Consumable atores, viz., knit- 
ted fabric, sewing thread and 
cartoon box. 


Provided that all gooda for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سس‎ 

(4) Hosierics of varied descrip- 
tion for sale. 


82 Mesars. Hindusthan 206 Upper Chitpore -۰ 60 ر۸‎ (1) Raw materials. Zardah, kewam and other tobacco 
Zardah Factory Road, Calcutta-3. 30-7-56. (2) hag ni si spare parts products, aploes and perfumery 
بہت‎ 


Private Ltd. and accessories. 

(3) Consumable atores, viz. 

81১18, perfumery—Indjan and 

foreign, gund, isobgul, arrow- 

root, tobacco, ৫080 tob 

bidi dust, stalk tobacco phials, 

tin conta(ners, cardboard bexes, 

label, blocks, capsules, corks, 

caps, oil-easential, Hquid 

paraffin, rose water, menthol, 

- saccharine, keora water, various 
colours and fuel. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
88108 is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of g named 
belaw سح‎ 

6) Kewam, sardah, mohini 
gudekn, kesarbilas, 
ambarichura and other 
tobbaco and non- 
tobacco betel spices 
for sale, 


33 Messrs. Calcutta Traders 17 Banamali Sarkar و‎ 8551/2456۸ eens Timber, planks. 
Street, Calcutta. 31-7-56. 


سب 


$4 Mossrs, Sankar Prosad 268 Ahiritola Street, پیم ,80 پر‎ Mustard of], cocoanut of}, ground. 
De Caloutta. 81-7-0. nut of], castor 011, oll cakes, gur, 


y. 
molasses, sugar, atta, flour, 
rice, 0৬1 and ghee. 


35 Messrs. K. L. Sinha & 167B Bowbazar Street, we رہ‎ 80 Raw materials. we جو‎ 
Sons. Caleutta. -7-56. 2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and acceasorivs. 
(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all gooda for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are Intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سس‎ 

(4) Ornamenta (gold and silver). 


™ 


$6 Messrs. 8. P. Industries 121A Bowbazar Street, Pr 31/8005۸, (1) Raw materials. 8 وا‎ 
Calcutta. 41-7-0. (2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 


and accessories. 
(8) Consumable stores. 


۰ Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax 15 claimed are Intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacturao of the goods 
named below :-— 

(6) Electro-plating. 


87 Manasa Brick Works .,. Raghunathpur, Hooghly oe SP/1I25A, (1) Raw materials. ৪৬৪ 
800, (2) Consumable stores, viz., coal 


and iron shecta, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption fram payment of 
88188 مار‎ is clatined are 11166106101 
for use in the actual proves of 
mantfacture of goods uamed 
below بب‎ 

(1) Bricks. 


38 Messrs. Secta ہے‎ F-8 and 9 New Market 5 TL/2O18A, popes Cotton, rayons and 81108 and 
Confeetionery Range), 27-77-66. ' ۳۶۴ء۲۳۱‎ garments & 
‘aleutta. ۹ habardashery, 


و 


6 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETT: 


AUQUST 23, 1956 ~ 


Né& 820. T.—9th August 1956.—In pursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 
(Sales ‘T'ax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers whose registrations under the Act were 


Serial 
No, 


10 


il 


12 


18 


14 


18 


86 


Namo of the dealer, Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for use in manufacture 
of bualnens, place of or مرو‎ or صا‎ the exéchtlon of the 
business, ificates, contracts, 
2 8 4 5 6 
Protective Lacquer 207 Chittaranjan Avonue, ٦ 13701125044, ৪৭ ۱ 
1 8, Calcutta. 56-52. 
(8) Jhamapukur 8 এ সা Mitter lane, 7 BDI/121A, ee 
Hoslery tactory Calc 20.9-41, 
Private Ltd. 
Sor 
Shamapukur ٦+ 
Factory Ltd. 
(8) M. L. Bose & Co, 14 Jagannath Dutta Calcutta-1 BDI/40B, (8) (1) দু materialsa— 
Private Ltd Lane, Calcutta. 7-10-41. nut 011 paraffin, 


for 
M. L. Bose & Co, 


Messrs. aoe Ganesh হল লে ون‎ 111 
oad, ut 
ae 10? C81/26454, 
2083/1 Harrison Road, 12-1-66. 
Calcutta. 
Menara. Sitaram & Co. (8) 144 Cotton Street, ae (8)BDII/2745A, 
Calcutta or 
* for 008/140۸, 
201 Harrison Road, 14-12-51. 
Calcutta. 

8) Mesara. Tah Nandy 20 Maharshi Debendra ۰ 11 7, 

- & Oo. Private Lid. Road, Calcutta. 25-9-41. 

att aoe Nandy & 

Co., 
67 Be চার Road, ٦۰ 17010060۰, 

,18-103 ب۶ 42 ہی شس یں 

2০৮০ Rustgi 011 0০. 

Ltd. 
এশা سم ات‎ 26/4 Raja Bro পি লিপি وی سی‎ 
٢) Mohan a. arayan eet, 
Caloutta. Road, 7.0, 
Calcutta. 6-11-60. 

5) Laxminarayan Stationbasar, Katwa, 7 BN/SOZA, 

38:70 ٠ district Burdwan, 17-7-47, 

নি rast Mondal 
and Sons. 

8( M.8. Ahmed & Oo. 68/6 Canning Streot, -۰ CL/764A, 

: تک‎ Ltd ‘Galatta. 24, 

or 

M.A. নিক & Co., Ltd. 

Ravisi Dipsing 46 ھ۵٤8‎ Street, 7 01, 
& 0০৪ ا یر یو سج‎ 

৪) ۷۶ در پا‎ & 12 Lower Chitpore we 01/6۸. 

۱ oat Pet Private Ltd Roml, Calcutta. 10-2-39. 

এ Chand and 

Bons Ltd, 

(8) Messrs. Khomka 29 Cotton Street, oe CSI/2411A, 
Company 05৮1 Calcutta. 29-8-53. 
7 Ltd 

Mesars, Khomka & Oo. 

৪ টির Maniklall (8) 16 Pageyapatty as CSI /2500A, 

: fi atter : Btreot, Oaicut ie 15-6-54. 

Messrs. RKaghunath- 17 Pageyapatty Street, 
das Mathoewarl, Cal 

Port Church os CSIII/2387A, 
পা কিডস পি $0-2-54. 
Private 128 

oa Ohandra Kant 
Shah & Co., Ltd. 

7৪ Canning Street ও لے‎ 

Messrs. Bahri Brothers نا ا‎ > 17755), 


se (9 barley, (56$) 


Raisin, oa mphor 
نے‎ Plant, 628" spare 


arts and accessories, 


(8 Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for 


which exemption from 
payment of sales tax ts 
claimed are intended for 
use in actual process 
of manufacturo of the 
named below سس‎ 

) Lakshmibilas hair ,لاہ‎ 
snow, 
iv) Golapsar, (6) ساس‎ 


raa, 8010.‏ کر 
hutasan, (wit) Batraj off,‏ 
Lekahmntbilash hair‏ )541( 


cream, ٠ z) Napoleon tooth 
moet 


এ oil, paraffin, BM: 
son, cam hor and A,B 
certified by the purchas- 
ing dealer to be required 
for use in any process In 
the manufacture of Lak- 
shimibilas hair oll, barley, 
snow, Golapsar, Sudha- 
sindhu ras, adrubutasan, 

Lakshmibtlas 

cream, Napoleon 

tooth powder for sale. 


رف 


eee 


eeoe 


কক 


eeae 


৪৪৬৩৪ 


কিডজ 


Goods for resale. 


7 
(A) Mica and mica 02 


وھ یه 


even 


aeoes 


onp0e 


eee 


ھ 


(A) ھ۶‎ 0 


aoe 


anee 


eens 


وحرح 


وسر 
imams‏ متسو 


amended with effect from the date noted against 
each of them and in respect of the particulars 
appearing in the different columns in the manner 
indicated against such particulars are published 
for general information :— 


Date of 
amend- 
mont, 


8 
27-7-66, 


00-7-60. 


80-۸ 


27.7-50, 


27-7-55, 


28-7-56. 


28-7-56. 


1-8-56. 


51-7-04. 


31-7-56, 


2-8-0, 


2.3-50 


30-7-50 


27-7-66, 


28-7-56. 


81484 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1946 {Parr 1 
SSS carn aac یس‎ ےسحسحق٢٭موسمولسہلممہسسو‎ eee 


Serial Name of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for uso in manufacture 09008 for resale. Date of 
No. of business. place of  orregistration or in the execution of tho amend- 
business. certificates. 0 ۰ ment, 
¢ 
1 2 # 4 5 6 7 8 
27 =Measra. Natvorial 188 Canning Strect, ae CSITI/25409A, ee Roller skin, buffer, leather, 81-7-56. 
Govindlal & Co. Calcutta. 14-10-56, lace, leathor washer, loom 


818۰ woodon sticks, 
shuttles, steal roods, cotton 
healda, oord, cane, 
wire hoalda, roller cloth, 
sizing flannel, cleanor 
cloth, bedding cloth, 
sizing materials for cotton 
طائلص‎ files, magnesia, 
cement, magnesia ee 
ride, tlestric wire and 
erage. MEM switch, 


cane, condult pipe and 
চস, iron scraps. 
18 (8) Indo-China Trad- 30 Strand Road, Calcutta 4 0 1 ,ش‎ ver er 81-7-66, 
ng Co. Private Ltd. 12-3-40. 
or 
Indo-China Trading 
Co., Ltd. ‘ 
exars. & Oo. (8) 208 Harrison Road, ‘ OSIV /2262A, supe 2 20-7-66, 
سای‎ 4 ‘ (room No. 814, 3rd ٥ 20-1-66. 6৪ 
floor), Calcutta 
‘oF 
118 Monohardas Katra 
(ist fioor) Calcutta. 
20 Messrs. Shree ভর হা mn Road, (D) G1) Sheree (B)OSTV /2864A, ۸ and وسر اج ےنتا‎ re 217-6, 
man ‘ cutta. or nany p » manu- 
2 081৮ /64B, facture of linseed oil, niger- 
(2) At the 80-09-41. seed ofl, kard! oll a 
ge سر‎ of sesame oll for ৪819, 5 
une Jute 
8 লিল 
708841706৩9 
Road. 
21 Mesers. New Ram Pal (3 61 Croes Road (Room (৮০৮ 50 رات میں‎ econ 0+07 21.7-40, 
Hara ۲۲۶٢۰ ০ پش‎ Calcutta 
و جا‎ CB یا‎ 
71 পি Street, Cal- 
cutta. 
67815. Nagendra Nath 210 Harrison Road, 28990 081۷/1893۸, ewe (A) Wire, wire products and 285-7 
7 Roy. 7 Calcutta. 18-12-50. شا‎ Oy 
13910811151] 2 1ء‎ Sil uri ee oe DJ/881A, eeon (A) Glass and glass products, $1-7-66, 
টু Agarwala, 7 16-3-56. batteries, barley, umbrella, 
pipes, 
"0. 10 5) 11 Government Place ve EL/2236A, ০৬৪ 0 27-7-56, 
٦ ০০ 02৯84 اس‎ East, Caicutta 28-12-50. 
‘or 
P-12 +0 Row Exten- 
sion, Calcutta. 
esars. R. J. Alcock & (4) 11 Government Place ve EL/493A হউক 76۔97 ےڈ‎ 
7 আট ہم‎ Calcutta 20-11-41. 
P-12 aston Row Exten- 
sion, Calcutta. 
6. la 4 Bankshall Street, Calcutta ہہ‎ EL/1706A, A) (1) Raw matcrials ৬৪ শান 227-0 
= aa De Te re 20-10-48. (2 lant, পতনে aparo 
parta and accessories. 
(3) y Consumable stores, 
ین‎ Provided that all 2০০৫৪ for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual process of manufac- 
ture of the goods named 
below ২. 
*), (১০১০০/০৪ and ferti- 
ci) Bor Sp prayers. 
444) Automobiles _—s repair 
workshop. 
27 Mesers. Sales and In 6 Old Post Office Street, ae یا‎ cove 7 مازاہ84(:7‎ 
Industrica Private Calcutta. 0-1-58, 
Ltd 
Sor 
Bales and Induastrice 
Ltd. 
28 Messrs. M. Dass and 26 Pollock Street, Calcutta ৪৪ BL/846A, (8) (1) Raw materials 7 ےج‎ ৪০-7-০৪, 
Bros. 26-9-41, (2) Plant, machinery, سس‎ 
and acorssories 
8) Consumable stores. 
vided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax fa clalmed 
are intended for use in the 
actual of manufao- 
ture of the goods named 
Wii 
Commentators, nipples, 
/ carbon holders sie 
(44) Carbon capa, lubri- 
cators, hangors, bear- 
ings and fan parts. 
i 
1 7 other raw matertals, 
8 ) Plant machinery, spare 
accessories and con- 
নল stores. 
(3) Building or plumbing 
materials or fixtures re- 
ulred for construction, 
এ out or repair of any 
bull 0: 
Certified by the purchasing 
dealers to be required for 
use in ahy process in ۴٣ 
manufacture of commenta- 
tors nipples, carbon 
holdera, lubricators, 
hangers, bearings and fan 
parts for sale. 
29 (8) Messrs. L. N. Trad. 11 Ezra Street, Caloutta ৬৫ BL/2830A, eens vove 91-7-56, 
ing Co. Private 10-86-60, 


Trading Co., Ltd.‏ جا 


০, 


1 


80 5771 Tins Producta 1A Vanasitart 


31 


$2 


86 


87 


80 


40 


01100411098, 


2 3 


Road, 
4 Oalcutta. 


Messrs. Sadeshi Ayat 38 Rieke alas Road, 
Nirayat Ltd. Cal 
Messra. Vinar & Co. 9 Brabourne Roed, 
Calcutta. 
Mossrs. J, H. Fenner & Mercantile ںاہ‎ 
Co. (India), Ltd. Lalibasar 
cutta, 
Messrs. Ranken & Co. & 010 Court House Street, 
ee Ltd Calcutta. 
‘or 
Messrs. Ranken & Co., 
Ltd. 
(8) Atoawari Rice Mill Sh{bpur, 2১, 0, Gu ur, 
(Private),  Ltd., Howrah, 07 
or 
Ateswari Rice Mills. 
Measra. ساسا پت‎ er aha Din Basar, Jalpaiguri. 
Mahabi 


Messrs. Sewkarandas lLankapara, Jalpaiguri .. 
Natya Narayan. 


Messrs, Paul Brothers, P.O. Alipurduar, Jal- 
palguri., 


Messrs. Kamal Stores Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri 


Tantu Silpa Pratiathan (8) Shyamsunde ٠ 
Ranaghat, Neds. 
‘or 
Ramnagar, Ranaghat, 
Nadia. 


place of or re 
business, cortificates. 
& ? 6 
ae BL /2022A, 
রা 


۰ 


ও oe $184A, 
ae BL/2018A, 
19-11-64. 
৫৪ 2/14. 
80-10-41. 


BL/21784,‏ و 
.11-9-50 


oe HW/1654A, 
8-8-66. 
3۳1۸ 
10-09-61. 
Birpara 208, 
Bazar, tthe 
Jalpaiguri. 
oe روہ‎ ٣ 
14-8-51. 
ea JP/1157A, 
11-12-61. 


es KR/1428A, 
18۰ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 196 


کر .9 


sefiat Name of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for میں‎ in manufacture 
N fb 1 tration or in the execution of the 


contracts, 
6 


2 (1) Raw materials 7 
2) Plant, سس‎ spare 
parts and accessories 
3) Consumable stores. 
vided that all goods for 
which exemption from pay- 
ment of sales tax is claimed 
are intended for use in the 
actual چت و‎ of manufac- 
লা of the goods named 
low سس‎ 
Jam 19115, squashes, cordials 
juices, sauces, venegar and 
fruita, vegetables 
and provisions packed 10 
bottles, tins and other 
containers 


jor 
Fruits, vegetables, 
sugar, preservatives, che- 

cals, . 
bottles, corks, labels, 
papers, utencils, machine- 
ries, parts and accessories 

سس ا of‏ 


coal and other fuels, শপ 
and other materials or 


0 Any other raw materials. 


t, machinery, spare 
accessories 


and 

(8) 1 یں‎ plumbing 
ng or um 

rials or রী سح‎ Tie 

uired for construction, fit- 

out or repair of any 


for use in any 
the manoufacture of 


other fruits, vegetablos and 
provisions packed in bot- 
tles, tins and other cone 
talners for sale. 


@egaeoee 


৩৪০৪ 


6৪৪৪ 


anee 
sees 


ছক 


(5) (1) Raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machineries, spate 
parte and accessories 


(3) Consumable atores, 
etn dyes, chemical, atarch, 


to 
H. 8. 
مم‎ 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of salea tax ia 
claimed are intended ir. 
uso in the actual sages 
manufacture of the raked 
named below سس‎ 


eather, লিলি, 


7 و‎ 
৮ dyes, chemicals, « 
paraffin, chinaclay. 
ا‎ diesel oil, 75181 « 


۱ ০ leather and rubber 
le 


(1) Any other raw materials. 


(2) Plant, সক ابو‎ spare 
parts, acccasorica and con- 
পিন 8৮0৩8, 


(8) Building or plumbing 
materials or Axturea re- 
ulred for construction, 
88৮15 out or repair of any 
bullding. 


Cortified by the purchaaing 
dealer to be i for 
use in any process in the 
manufacture of clothe for 


Goods for resale. 
7 
(D) 102۳9۰041 oe 
(A) সন 
(A) Paper ee 


(A) Beltings, pulleys, castings, 
t dressings, لہ‎ 
motors and fillings. 


eee 


8185 


Date of 
amend 
ment, 


8 
$1-7-56. 


81-0, 
$1-7-66. 


81-7-60, 


8381-7-50 


80-7-56, 


(A) Bubber cloth, rubber sheet 28-7-56, 
loths, 


and لاہ‎ ৫ 


(A) Bidi, groundnut 
cocoanut oll, spices, 
string, paper, battery. 


ofl, 28-7-60. 
coir 


(A) Umbrella, نت اس‎ — 22-7-54 


proof, rubbe 
oul cloth, 


(A) Electrica) goods,  tube- 
اہی‎ and খত 6. C. sheota 


2-8-6, 


1-8-56 


1: WHE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 (Parr T 


Berial Name of the douler. Address and chief place ৮ No. and date Goods for use In manufacture 0০০০৪ for resale, Dat of 
of business, place of or registration or in the execution of the amend- 

business, certificates. contracts, ment, 

@ 
1 2 8 4 5 6 7 8 
41 (8) Dey Bastralaya পা Railbazar, es মা (8) (1) Raw materials. "2 1-8-56 
or Nadia. 11-49, 
Panchanan Dey (2) Plant, machineries, 606 


parts and accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores, vis. 
حم‎ , dyes, chemicals, starch, 
ar সপ chinaclay, 
lesel oil, mobil oil. 
grease leather, rubber 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual ee of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below : 


Cloth. 


for 
baie bes dyes, শা ahi 
paraffin, hinacl 
ot wt diesel oil, ॥, mobil 
prone leather and rubber 


(1) Any other raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery spare 
parts, accessorics and 
consumable stores. 


(8) Busing or plumbing 
materials or fixtures re. 

ren for cons 
oe or repair of any 


Certified by the purchasing 
dealer to 7 সা گی‎ 


use in any proceas 
manufacture of sloth سی‎ 
sale. 
-۰ t, ee KE/638A, (8) (1) Baw materials ee (A) Inseoticidals chemical 1+858 
43 Durgadas Kundu Ranaghat, Nadia Sa 41. and minora} foods 


(2) Plant, machineries, spare 
parte and accessories, 


(3) Consumable stores, visz., 
پچ پا‎ dyes, মিস পা 


paraffin, 
کر‎ 1 Diosel 7, "mob il ol 
, leather, rubber 


Its. 

Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax i 
claimed are intended for 
059 10 the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سی‎ 


Cloth. 
10 
Yarn, dyes, ক্ষ starch, 


chinaolay, 
H. 8. এ oll, mobil o 


ah roy leath ther aud rubber 


(1) Any other raw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinerysa, spare 
accessories «and 

০005111001৩ stores. 


(8) Building or plumbing " 
materials, or fixturce 
required ‘for construction, 
যান out or repair of any 


Certified by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
use in any proceasin the 
وو سا‎ of cloths for 


8810, 
43 Matheson & 0০0. Ltd. 4 Clive Row,Caloutta * 7 13/8155۸. )8( (1) Raw materials. ৬৪৪৪ 28-7-66. 
° (2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts and accessories. 


(8) Consumable goods. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below 3 


Tea for Toa chests, 
gunoies and A. B. C. certi- 
fied by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
086 in any process in the 
manufacture of tea for 8819, 


56, 
44 (8) Standard Garage 8 Canning Strect, Calcutta oe LE/2187A, و‎ 8 ৪৬৩৩ 80-7 
۱ পল Led. 7-12.51. 


or 
Garage Ltd. 
, Calcutta ait LE/1048A, piles 
45 (8) مس ون سح‎ 24 Strand Road, Calcu ra eg 
Private Ltd. 


৪৪৪৪ 90-7-0. 


Part T] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


| 2 
serial Name of the dealer. Address and chief place Additional No. and date 
No. of businoss. place of or ধা 
usiness. 
1 2 3 4 6 
46 Mechanica Engineer- 25Swallow Lane -۰ 7 ا‎ seers 
ing Co, Private Ltd. 7-12-1961. 
67 Associated Minerals (8 نچ رم‎ Subhas ay (8) 
Ltd. Calcutta. LR/2602A, 
or ‘or 
P-21 /22 Radhabazar EL/1888A, 
Street, Calcutta. 4.749 
48 Indian Hardware and 20 Netaji Subhas Road, ۰ 18/2028۸, 
Tools Co. Calcutta. 10-38-51. 
49 IndoImprex Ltd ., 2Royal سی سو‎ Place, টি 17/227 68, 
Calcutta. -6- 
80 Shree Durga Bhandar Post Office Road, Malda 2-7 ML/4364, 
2-6-56. 
61 The Timber Trading 67/21 Strand Koad, Cal- ee মর 
Co. outta, 1-65-48. 
62 (8) Sawoo Bros. Pri- 28۸ Gallff Street, Caloutta 7 58119۸۰, 
vate Ltd. 4- 5. 
Sor 
Sawoo Bras. Ltd. 
§3 Nareingh Das Agar- 66/1 Maharahi Dobendra A) (5) 
walla. vad, Calcutta. Timber- 811/1611, 
ond, or 
oreshore SH/2324A, 
oad, 19-2-63. 
Shibpore, 
Howrah 
64 Sree Durga Engincering 2 Lakmi Narayan Mu- 811], 
00, khorjee Road, Calcutta. 14-10-55, 
65 Mossrs. Internationa) (8) 123 Lower Cilroular a in i 
Mercantile 8১০1০" 1৮০৮1, Calcutta. 10-1-0. 
tion Lid. "for 
158 Dharamtolla Stroet, 
84:۰ 
56 (8) Mesars. Central 254 Chittaranjan Avenue, 8L/1500A, 
০ Service Pri- Calcutta. 5-10-48. 
vate Ltd. 
Sor 
Mesars. Central Radio 
Service, Ltd. 
6? 8) Mewar. Tropic 7 Chitteranjan Avonue, ne BL/10844, 
poo Works Private Calcutta. os 8-4-0, 
" for 
Moaars ae Paint 
Works L 
68 Messrs. Aoronautical 91 Chittaranjan Avenne, a BL/2400A, 
Services, Ltd. Calcutta. 16-4-52. 
50 (8) Messra.Geeta Glass 69 Bahir Surah Road, vs TL/IG1LIA, 
1 Ltd. Calcutta. 14-4-4. 
‘or 
Messrs. 06968 Glasa 
works, 
60 Messrs. Tho Textile (8) 1051) Park Stroet, on 51/281۸, 
Supply Co. ৪০০3 20-0-۰, 
or 
1 Lindsay Streot, Caloutta 
Evpla natory notes. —Regarding the amend- 


ments made the following Code letters have been 
Used to indicate the manner in which the parti- 


Goods for use in manufacture 
or in the execution of the 
contracts. 
6 
A) cof) টপ 
tt) Guntries. 
2) Treaties. 
21) Steel structurals. 


ait) Mochanical 


handling 
equipments, 


চা 
ow 
aoe 


oave 


@atve 
৪৪৬৬ 


@eter 


یور ىف 


پر اس 


eeee 


رب 


a 


(A) Gliders, aircraft engine 
parta, 1195 and fixtures. 


eabe 


(8) Raw matorials. 


(8) Plant, machinery, spare 
parta and accessories. 


(3)¥Conaumable stores, viz, 
rtings, long cloth and 
Piabrice. 


Provided that all goods for 
which oxepmtion from 
payment of sales tax = is 


claimed are intended for 
uso in the actual process 
of manufacture of the 
a named below: 
(s) Textile 
Shirtings, long-cloth and 
fabrics. 


(1) Any other raw materials. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parte, acocssorics and 
consumable stores. 


(3) Building or plumbing 
materials or Axtures, 
uired for oonstruction, 

fit যা di out or repair of any 


by the purchasing‏ کے 
dealer to be required for‏ 
use in any proocea in the‏ 
manufacture of textile‏ 
৪০০৫৪, for sale,‏ 


culara of a registration have been 


(A) means +۰ 


Ce 


(A) Electrical goods ate 
(A) Electric lamps, wires 
electric fittings, electrio 


fana, electric 8۰ 
(A) Toa 


(A) Veneer and plywood 


oeee 


evn 


ig Brass, copper, aluminium, 
rH in (pure), চনয সা 
unges, t-pin, Vae 
nized plpe fencing a 


iron, rubber 


emery ar کچ‎ 


square, paper, 
paints, sockets, een pe, 
pei drill, cotton: waste, 

all bearin 


od jointing and 


anae 


ক ৬ ডি 


رو ینب 


৬৬৬ 


(])) means “Delete”. 
(9) meana “Substitute”, 


81-7-56. 


28-56, 


2-86-56. 


277-56. 


2717-0, 


28-1-00, 


80-7-6. 


81-7-06 


81-7-۰ 


1-8-50, 


1-0. 


1-8-۰. 


21-7-50. 


30-7-56. 


amended :-— 


31.88 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 23, 1956 [Panr I 


নিউ সাল‏ جح سے 


No. 88C0.T.—9th August 1956.—In pursuance 
vi the ‘provisions of section 9 of the Bengal 
Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI 
of 1941), the following names and addresses of 
registered dealers together with a description of 


the goods covered by their registration certificates 
whose registrations under the Act were 08100911111 
with effect from the date noted against each of 
them are 700۵۳0 for general information :— 


Berlal Name of the dealer, Address and chief place یسب ا‎ No. and date (30008 for the use in +۰ Goods for resale. Dato of 
No. of bus! nexs. lace of of registration facture or in the execution cancella- 
usiness. certificate. of contracts. tion. 
a 2 8 4 6 7 8 
1 Mossra, Basana Bala 18 Doyehatta Street, ve BDIT/2433A, Catechu, Sal leaves, knife ہہ‎ 27-6 
Dey. Calcutta. 14-5-52. and A, B certified by the 
purchasing dealer for use 
n any process in the manu- ٠ 
facture of catechu for 
sale. 
Q Messrs. Shankas & Co. 8 Dr. Rajendra Road, Calcutta-l1 7, Woollon, cotton drills, gaber- Woollen gaberdine, cotton 28-7-66 
alcutta. 11-11-41, dines and A, B, C certified Ills, twilla, gaberdine, 
by the purchasing dealer hosiery goods, electrical 
to be required for use in goods, radio, paper, hard- 
any process in the manu- ware, 
facture of Sola shapes, 
Bola hata for sale, 
3 Messrs. Ranacharjee.. 2 Penn Road, Calcutta Calcutta-1 کہ‎ ee Battery oy =e 23-7.56 
4 Messrs. Ever Ready 20/1 Lallbazar S8treet, 5 EL/2508A, Marble stones, cement, oxi- Marble stones, stone chips, 28-7-56 
Marble Co. Calcutta. 11-12-61. 09৪ and acids and A, B, 0 drv colours, sand, all kinds 
cortified for use in any ne ہیمست‎ ut, pollshing stones, 
proceas in the manufacture oe and 
aS marble name plate for 7 roquilaltes 
০, 
5 Messrs. Indian Ship- 14 Bontinck Street, Cal- পৃ EL/2877A, ৯৩৪৩ Coal and coke .. 28-7-0 
ئن‎ & Bankers cutta. * 81-56-51. 
6 Messrs. Rashid & Bros. 36 Brabourne Road, Cal- - EL/2467A, wove 01885 bangles, celluloid bang- 81-7-50 
৫01, 20-0-1۰ les, glassware,  658084- 
ware, porcelainware, stone 
waro, carthonware, meta] 
and plastic cap, carbs and 
and washers. 
endra Nath Dey & Amta, Howrah es oe ا‎ har Gold, silver, etc., and thread, Gold, silver and ornaments. 30-7. 
۲ ৮9 = 17-2- plocegoods বা A,B certified 22 
ed the purchasing dealer to 
required for use in any 
سار‎ in the manufacturo 
of ornamenta and dress 
for sale. 
8 Budhram Indar Singh sa! Bank Building, ee JP/702A, eves Tea, tca chest and gunny bag 2-8-0 
Jalpaiguri town. 1-12-49, 
9 The Publicity Centro 23 and 24 Strand Road, 7۰ 17/2299۸, over Paper, board, Ink and সা 27-7-56 
Ltd. Calcutta. 1-8-62. materials for 10 
box-making, 
and othor materials rds 
advertising purpose. 
10 .3ا‎ 1. Mehra & Oo. .. 20 Netaji Subhas Road, ৬৪ 1ٰ, eves Bullion, hossian, gunny and 2.8.66. 
Calcutta. 19-38-48. jute products. 
11 Sramik Stores 81 Cornwallis Street, 7 SH/1489A, Net, cloth, thread, button and Cloth, rcadymade garments 31-7-66 
alcutta. 4-7-49, (i) any other raw mate- 
rials, (2) plant, machinery, 
spare parts, accessorica and 
consumable stores. Certi- 
fied by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
use in any process in the 7 
manufacture of garments 
and mosquito nets for sale. 
12 Mesern. Kalyan Kumar 58/7 Shambazar Street, re BH /2070A, Web cloth, sewing thread and Web cloth banilans .ےہ‎ 0 
Mazumdar & Co. Calcutta. 7-4-62, کا‎ plan any other raw materials, 
2) see t, machinery, spare 
accessories and con- 
وا سیت‎ stores. Certified 
by the purchasing dealer 
“a be required for use in 
y process in the manu- 
سس‎ of Genji, hosiery 
fabrics for sale, 
18 Mesars. ont Harl Bas- P-58 Raja Nabakiseen ve ৪8771195988, ৩৬৬ Cloth, toxtiles, stationeries, 817-0 
tralaya Strect, Calcutta. 29-38-49. perfumertes, srovisions, 
medicines, hosierios, pa ri 
বাপ শি ghee, 
oloctric g 
14 Mesre Hajee Sajod 11/2 Harsi Street, Cal- as BL/2551A, ane Raw hide and skin ٤ 81-7-56 
Ali & Co. 0009০ 8-5-58. 
15 Messrs. National Sweet 47/1 Market Street, ax TL/1648A, Sugar, ghee, flour, atta, coal, er 279-6 
Emporium. Calcutta. 18-12-51. ason, sabeda, dal, badam, 


niing, vegetable, mus- 
ard 0 L and any other 
raw materials, plant, ma- 
chincry, spare parta, arcoa- 
sories and oonsumahle 
stores, bullding or plumb- 
ing materials, or fixtures, 
required for conatruction, 
দাদী; out or ও of any 
a না wenn da by tho 
hasing dealer be 

se اس‎ for use in any 
rocess in the matnfac- 


print ‘pesta, card board, 


wre of puri, halua, sn 
badam, arfi, salted kaju 
flapi and assorted ای‎ 


or sale. 


Part tl 


serial Namo of the dealor. 
No. 


1 2 8 4 
16 Messrs. Elite Station- 70 Dharmatolla Street, 
ery & Card box Co. Caloutta. 
17 Mossrs. D. Rahbar & 24 Chowringheo Road, 
Oo. (India), Ltd, Calcutta. 
18 Mossrs. Radios (India) 7 Chowringhce Centre, ee 
Lid. Calcutta. 


Explanatory note.—Regarding ‘‘goods for use in 
manufacture or in the execution of contracts” the 
following Code letters have been used to indicate 
the meanings noted against each سس‎ 

(A) Other raw materials. 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 6857/M.2P-1/56.—6th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (2) 
of section 82 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1991 
(West Bengal Act XXXITI of 1951), the Gover- 
nor is pleased to make the folowing amendment in 
the schedule to the Calcutta Municipal Service 
Commission Rules, 19538, published with notifica- 
a No. 680 M.38R-6/53, dated the 20th January, 
1954 :-— 


Amendment 


_ For the scale of pay and allowances shown in 
item (i) against serial No. 1 of the said schedule 
substitute the following :— 


Re. 7O0O—256—950 plus dearness and‏ رت“ 
other allowances admissible to similar‏ 
employees of the State Government.”‏ 


No. 6936 /M.2A-13/56.—7th Auguat 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by clause (b) of 
sub-section (1) of section 654 of the Bengal Muni- 
cipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 1932), and in 
modification of notification No. 8262M.1-2/55, 


Address and chief pluce Additional No.and date Goods for the use in mann- 
of business. lace of of 8 facture or in the execution 
usineas. cortificate. 


TL/1642A, 
80-561. 


TL/1355A, 
11-2-60, 


TL/1805A, 
14-10-49. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3189 
Goods for resale. Date of 
cancella- 
of contracts. tlon. 
6 7 8 


Machinerics, paper, board, Paper and stationery goods 8006 
binding materials, printing 
materiala, ink and an 
other raw materials, plan 
machinery, spare parts, 


accessories, 
able stores, buildi 
lumbing 


Tea chests and tea garden 80-7-56 
stores and timber. 


Radios, radio apare parts, 
electrical goods, and refri- 
geration goods. 


80-77-66 


(B) Plant, machinery, spare parts, accessories 
and consumable stores. 

(0) Building or plumbing materials عو‎ 
fixtures required for construction, fitting 
out or repair of any building. 


A. C. ROY, Commissioner. 


No. 6924/M.1T-49/56.—7th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by the Explanation 
to sub-section (1) of section 167 of the Calcutta 
Municipal Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act XXXII 
of 1951), the Governor is pleased to declare the land 
and buildings at the premises mentioned in the 
schedule below, a8 land and buildings used by the 
Bangiya Sahitya Parisad solely for the purpose of 
education : 


The Schedule 


Premises No. 2433, Upper Circular Road, 
Calcutta. 


No. 6921 /M.1T-59/65.—7th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by the E.rplanation 
to sub-section (1) of section 167 of the Calcutta 
Municipal Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act 1 
of 1951), the Governor is pleased to declare the 
land and buildings at the premises mentioned in 
the schedule below, as land and buildings used by 
the Albert Victor Leprosy Hospital, solely for the 
purpose of medical relief, 


The Schedule 
Premises No. 18, Gobra Road, Calcutta. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDHAN, Jt. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
Medical 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. Med]. /5987/D.H.S, /1D-29/56.—4th August 
1956.—The (Governor is pleased to grant Dr. 
Dasarathi Ghosh, M.B.B.S., of the West Bengal 
Medical and Health Service, now employed as 
Emergency Officer, Medical College Hospitals, 
Calcutta, earned leave for thirty days with effect 
from the date from which the leave is availed of 
under rule 167(1i) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. KAR, Dy. Secy. 


8190 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


[1৮ I 


Public Health 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. P.H./2844/2R-23/56.—3rd August 1966.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(1) of section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 
1897 (III of 1897), the Governor is pleased to 
make the following amendment in the temporary 
regulations for preventing the spread of cholera in 
the municipal areas of Nabadwip, Tamluk, Kalna, 
Katwa and Howrah prescribed under the said 
Act and published with notification No. P.H./ 
1392 /2R-16/656, dated the 12th April 1956, at 
pages 79601) to 79500) of Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 18th April 
1956, as subsequently amended, namely -ے:‎ 


Amendment 


In regulation No. 48 of the said regulations 
after the words ‘‘the Calcutta Municipal Act, 
1951 (West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951)” insert 
the words “the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923 
(Bengal Act TII of 1923), as extended to the 
municipality of Howrah’’, 


No. P.H. /2845/2R-23/56.—3rd August 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(1) of section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 
1897 (III of 1897), the Governor is pleased to 
make the following amendment in. the temporary 
regulations for the purpose of preventing the 
spread of cholera in the city of Calcutta pres- 
cribed under the said Act and published with 
notification No. P.H./1202/2R-8/56, dated the 
29th March 1956, at mages 621 to 624 of Part I 
of the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 
30th March 1956, as subsequently amended. 
namely :— 


Amendment. 


In regulation No, 24B of the said regularions 
after the words “the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951 
(West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951)”, insert the 
words “‘the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923 (Bengal 
Act ITI of 1923), as extended to the municipality 
of Howrah’’. 


No. P.H./2868/1M-32/56.—3rd August 1956. 
—The Governor is pleased to place the services 
of Dr. Purnendu Sen, Ph.D.(Lond.), D.1.C. 
(Lond.) Entomologist under the Directorate of 
Health Services, West Bengal, at the disposal of 
the Governing Body of the School of Tropical 
Medicine, Calcutta, for employment as Professor 
of Medical Entomology im the said institution on 
usual foreign service terms with effect from the 
date on which he takes over charge of the post 
until further orders, 


No. P.H./2880/4L-4/56.—4th August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to extend the term of 
contract appointment of Shri Sachindra Nath 
Mitra, M.Se., D.I.C., F.R.I.C., to the post of 
Public Analyst for Food and Water, West Bengal 
Public Health Laboratories, for a further penod 
of three years from the 27th June 1956. 


No. P.H./2881/41-4/56.—4th August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to extend the term of 
contract appointment of Dr. Promode Kumar 
Sanyal, Ph.C (Banaras), Ph.D. (Lond.), to the 
post of Public Analyst for Drugs, West Bengal 
Public Health Laboratories, for a further period 
of one year from the 23rd June 1966. 


By order of the Governor, 
N, 7 KAR, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF WORKS AND BUILDINGS 


Establishment 


NOTIFICATIONS 


“ No. 50.—9th August 1956.—Shii Sukomal 
Ghosh, Executive Kugineer-in-Charge of the 
Western 15166061081 Division under the Electrical 
Circle, is allowed earned leave for fifty-five duys 
with effect from the 16th August 1956 under rule 
167(11) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


No. 51.—9th August 1956.—Shri Monotosh 
Chandra Guha, Electrical Assistant Eugineer, is 
transferred, in the interest of public service, from 
the Medical College Hospital Electrical Sub- 
division under the Calcutta Electrical Division 
of the Electrical Circle and is appvinted 10 
offclate as Executive Engineer, Western Elec- 
trical Division under that Circle, with effect from 
the date on which he takes over charge of thut 
Division and until turther orders vice Shri 
Sukomal Ghosh, Electrical Lxecutive Engineer 
on leave. 


By order of the Governor, 
.ظط‎ K. SINHA, Jt. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION AND 
WATERWAYS 


RESOLUTION No. 15-I. 


Calcutta, the 9th August 1956. 

The Governor is pleased to order that the Road 
Bridges Committee of the State Flood Control 
Bowed. West Bengal, constituted under resolution 
No. 6-I, dated the 27th April 1956, will continue 
up to the 31st January i967 and shall submit its 
report to the State Flood Control Board, West 
Bengal, by the aforesaid date, 


By order of the Governor, 
B. K. ADHIKARI, Dy. Secy. 


বিরতি 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 85.—I1st August 1956.—Shri Ripudaman 
Singh, I.8.E., is confirmed, with effect from the 
lst December 1955 as a Superintending Mngineer 
under the Irrigation and Waterways Directorate 
of the Government of West Bengal. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, Secy. 


MERE 


No. 14-I.—Ist August 1956.—In exercise of the 
power conferred by section 6 of the Bengal (۰ 
gation Act, 1876 (Bengal Act III of 1876), the 
Governor is pleased to declare the Subdivisional 
Officer (Irrigation), Paikar Subdivision, as an 
Officer by whom the powers and duties of a Canal 
Officer under the said Act shall be exercised and 
performed within the local limits of his jurisdic 
tion in the district of Birbhum until further 
orders, 


By order of the Governor, 
B. K. ADHIKARI, Dy. 87 


Part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 319] 
১০ نیسحت تو تک‎ 
IRRIGATION AND WATERWAYS Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 


DIRECTORATE 
NOTIFICATION, 

No. 67C.1.K.—llth July 1956.—Shri Debhi- 
prosad Sinha Roy, temporary Assistant Engineer, 
Technical Assistant to the 75 Kingi- 
neer, (Greater Calcutta Drainage Circle, was 
granted earned leave for six days with 61601 from 
4th June 1956 under rule 16861) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


I. B. DE, Chief Engineer. 


COTTAGE AND SMALL-SCALE 
INDUSTRIES DEPARTMENT 


RESOLUTIONS 


No, 2409Cot.—31st July 1956.—Read an appli- 
cation, dated the 4th August 1954, from Shr Ram 
Lochan Das of 161/5 Tiljala Road, Calcutta-19, 
asking for a loan of Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two 
thousand only) under the Tengal State ‘id to 
Industries Act, 1931 (Rengal Act ۱۱۱ of 1931), for 
ihe revival and development of his hide and 
Jeather industries : 

Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
9st February 1956, submitted with letter 
No. 8141, dated the 10th May 1956, from the 
Secretary, Board of Industries, West Bengal. 


Order 


Orperen that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published im the Calcutta 
(fazette. 


No. 2410Cot.—Slst July 1956.—Read an appli- 
cation, dated the 29th December 1954, from Shri 
Ajit Kr. Roy and Bijoy Kr. Roy of Oalipur, P.O. 
Rakhajangal, district Miduapore, asking for 4 
loan of Rs. 1,200 (Rupees one thousand and two 
hundred only) under the Bengal State Aid to 
Industries Act, 1931 (Bengal Act IIT of 1931), for 
development of their existing soap factory : 

Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
2181 February 1956, submitted with letter 
No. 2936, dated the 8th May 1956, from the 
Secretary, Board of Industries, West Bengal. 


Order 


Ornrren that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published in the Calcutta 
Gazette. 


No. 2411Cot.—3lst July 1956,—Read an apph- 
cation, dated the 26th March 1955, from Shri 
Sushil Kr. Gayen of Mohanpur, 1970), Bowah, dis- 
trict 24-Pargunas, asking for a loan of Rs. 8,000 
(Rupees eight thousand only) under the Bengal 
State Aid to Industries Act, 1951 (Bengal Act 111 
of 1931), for improvement of his weaving factory : 


Read also the resolution of the meeting of the 
Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
3186 February 1956, submitted — with letter 
No. 3013, dated the 9th May 1956, from the 
Secretary, Board of Industries, West Bengal. 


Order 
Orveren that the application be rejected and 


the resolution be published in the Calcutta 
Gazette, 


No. 2412C0t.—31st July 1966.—Rend an appli- 
tition, dated the 13th September 1954, from Shri 
tadha Krishna Agorn of Muhisadal, Midnapore, 
asking for a loan of Rs. 5,900 (Rupees five 
thousand and five hundred only) under the Bengal 
State Aid to Industries Act, 1931 (Bengal Act 1 
of 1991), for manufacturing cipck, watches, ete. : 


Board of Industries, West Bengal, held on the 
ist February 1956, oubmitted with letter 
No. 3140, from the Secretary, Board of Industries, 
West Bengal. 


Order 


OrverEp that the application be rejected and 
the resolution be published in the Calcutta 
Gazette. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. MITRA, Secy. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 8787Lab./G/2W-38/55.—30th July 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by section 6 
read with section 9 of the Mintmum Wages Act, 
1948 (XI of 1948), the Governor is pleased to 
appoint an Advisory Committee to enquire into 
the conditions prevailing m employment in local 
uuthosities (district boards) in West Bengal and to 
advise the State Government in asking revision 
of the minimum rates of wages fixed in respect of 
such enovployment under the said Act, consisting 
of the following persons, namely سس‎ 


Independent Members 


(11) Shri B. TL. Sarkar, District Judge, Chair- 
man. 


(2) Shri Bimalananda Tarkatirtha, M.L.A. 


(4) Shri N, C. Kundu, Labour Officer, West 
Bengal. 
Members representing Empl:zyers. 


(4) Shri Tarakdas Banerjee, M.L.C. of the 
West Bengal District Boards’ Association. 


(5) Dr. Manilal Basu of the West Bengal Dis- 
trict Boards’ Association. 


(6) Shr Gouri Prasanna Mukherjee of the West 
Bengal District Boards’ Association. 


Members representing Employees. 


(7) Shri Makhan Chandra Das of the Jalpaiguri 
District Board Employees’ Association. 


(8) Shri Am] Kumar Ghose of the Murshida- 
had District Board Employees’ Association. 


(9) Shri Biswanath Roy, M.L..A., of the Bengal 
Provincial National Trade Union Congress. 


2. The (tovernor is also pleased to appoint 
Shri N. C. Kundu, Labour Officer, West Bengal, 
to be the Secretary of the said Advisory Com- 
mittee. 


No. 3888Lab./G/1A-216/55.—3rd August 1956. 
—-In exercise of the power conferred by section 87 
of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(XXXIV of 1948), the Governor is pleased to 
exempt the workshop of the Bankra Toco Depot 
of Howrah-Amta and Howrah-Sheakhala Light 
Railways, under the Managing Agency of Messrs. 
Martin Burn & Co., Ltd., from the operation of 
the said Act for a period of one year from the 3rd 
August 1956, the requirement of section 89 of the 
said Act having already been complied with. 


No, 3952Lab. /G/8A-37 /65.—7th Auzuat 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(2) of section 4 of the Indian Botlers Act, 1923 
(V of 1923), and in continuation of notification 
No. 38039Lab. /G/dA-37/65, dated the 27th July 
1965, the Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
ও. (1. Roy, Inspector of Boilers, West Bengal, to 
be the Chief Inspector of Boilers, West Bengal, 
until further orders, vice Shri S. N. Sen Gupta, 
on deputation, 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


a 
2টি ص۰۹۹۵ ام حصددیمڈرومج رت ے ما جوے وریہ پر یرد ےہ جس ہچسممجم سے سس٢ تس‎ 


3192 [Parr 7 


৫ কাস পপ জী AAS ARIAS SHOE tho ও 


No. 4083Lab./G/1A-4/55.—1 lth August 1986. The Consumer Price Index Number has gone up 


—In exercise of the power conferred by section byw 1 point to 104 from 103 during the previous 
87 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 month, The increase is due to rise in the prices 
(XXXIV_ of 1948), the Governor is pleased to of mustard oil, vegetables, fish, dhoti,  suree, 
exempt from the operation of the said Act the shirting, lungi, ete. 


factories belonging to the Calcutta Electric Supply 
Corporation Limited, Calcutta, subject to the con- 
dition that such exemption shall cease to be iu 
force after a period of one year from the 3156 


August 1956 or after Chapters 1V and V of the CONSUMER PRICE 


INDEX NUMBER FOR 


said Act are brought into force in the area where WORKING CLASS, MALDA.WEST 
the Mulajore Generating Station, Shyamnagar, of DINAJPUR AREA, FOR THE MONTH OF 
the Caleutta Electric Supply Corporation, 1, 18 MAY 1956 

situated, whichever is earlier, the requirement of 

section 89 of the said Act having already been Base: Year 1951=100 


complied with. 
By order of the Governor, 
D. S. P. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


LABOUR DIRECTORATE 
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 


Food 


WORKING CLASS, BIRBHUM AREA, FOR Fuel and Lighting .. 89 
THE MONTH OF MAY 6 

Clothing .. os 79 

Base: Year 1951 >> 0 Miscellaneous পপ 

House Rent 7 100 


Combined Index 


Food 


07 ۱ The Consumer Price Index Number has jone 

Fuel and Lighting -. 5.36 92 up by 2 points to 79 from 77 during the previous 

Clothing نے‎ 6.28 70 month. The increase is due mainly to the rise in 

the prices of rice, dal, mustard oil, fish, vegetables, 

Miscellaneous * 17.10 103 coal, fire-wood, dhoti, saree, shirting, coating, 
وم ۲ قح‎ 100 drill, lungi, ete. 


S. N. CHATTERJED, 


Dy. Labour Commissioner. 


Combined Index 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR WORKING CLASS FOR PLANTATION AREAS 
Base: Year 1948-100 


Darjeeling. Dooars, ا‎ 
Groups. کے‎ 
Janu- Febru- Janu- Febru- Janue Febru- 
Weight. ary ary March Weight. ary ary March Weight. ary ary March 
1956. 1956. 1969. 1956. 19656. 1956. 1956. 10956. 1958. 
Food ~- 71-44 94 95 98 71:22 80 81 85 71°86 76 81 64 
Fuel and lighting oe 24-12 98 97 97 10°58 103 89 102 8-59 70 70 10 
Clothing and footwear 6-96 104 94 95 7°53 74 75 76 7°22 111 111 64 
Miscellaneous -- 10-48 138 138 138 10-67 98 98 98 12-33 90) 00 92 
General Index 100-00 100 100 102 100-00 84 84 88 100-00 79 83 85 


_The Index Number for Dooars has come down to 94 during January from 95 during December 1955, remained steady at that figure 
during February 1955 and then went up to 88 during the next month. 


The increase in the Index Number during March was due to rise in the privos of rice, paddy, atta, chira-muri, kalaj del, sugar, 
mustard oil, fish, onion, tea, firewood, dhoti, saree, drill, printed cloth, shoes, tobacco, washing soap, etc. 


In Darjeeling, the Index Number has gono up to 102 in March 1956 from 100 during the previous month due to rise in the prices 
of maize, moong dal, gur, mustard oil, milk, chilli, fish, pork, potato, drill, printed cloth, blanket, pan, tobacco, cocoanut oil, ete, 


In Terai the Index Number went up to 85 in March 1956 from 83 during the previous month due to rise in the prices of paddy, 
chira-muri, arhar dal, mustard oil, fish, mutton, eggs, potato, kerosene oil, firewood, otc. 


8. N. CHATTERJEE, 
Dy. Labour Commissioner. 


extension of earned leave for fifty-eight days for 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND or 
the period from lst July 1956 to 27th August 1956 


PPL 
ہت‎ ; . under rule 167(ii) of West Bengal Service Rules, 
Food and Supplies Port IT, in continuation of earned leave already 
NOTIFICATION granted to him under notification No. 7328F.5., 


No. 7758F.8./FS/TR/1L-1/56.—4th = August dated 20th July 1956. 


1956.—The Governor is pleased to grant Shri 
Sudhangsu. Mohan Nandy, W.B.J.C.8., Officer- 
in-charge, Government Food Depot, Cossipore, un 


By order of the Governor, 


A. K. MITRA, Dy. Sey: 


Part J] 

নল ললঙ 

DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 
24-Parganas.—No. 13788],.A.—4th August 1956. 


—The Governor 1s pleased to replace the services 
of Shri Chitta Ranjan Roy, Sub-Deputy Magistrate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector, now employed as Addi- 
tional Land Acquisition Officer, 24-Parganas, at 
the disposal of ive Home (General Administration ) 
Department for employment under that Depart- 
ment. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


পিউ 


24-Parganas.—No. 13512L.A.—3lst July 1956. 
—Whereas the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, (I of 
1894), in relation to the acquisition of land for the 
purposes of the Union, have been entrusted to the 
State Government by notification No. 20/1/55- 
Judl.(1), dated the 14th May 1955, issued by the 
Governemnt of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, under clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Yonstitution of India; 


And whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for construction 
of Post and Telegraph Office building in the village 
of Bongaon, jurisdiction list No. 224, thana 
Bongaon, district 24-Parganas, it is hereby notified 
that a piece of land comprising cadastral plot 
No, 290 and parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 291, 
206 and 288, and measuring, more or less, .2347 of 
an acre, is likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
public purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village of Bongaon ; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, 
read with the said notification, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Tand Acquisition Officer, 1100ھ‎ 
24-Parganas. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the said 
section, read with the 88161 notification, the 
Governor ig pleased to authorise the officers for the 
time being engaged in the undertaking, with their 
servants and workmen, to enter upon and survey 
the land and do all other acts required or permitted 
hy that section. 


Any person Interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of “thie notification is given 
In the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of 24-Parganas, 


24-Parganas.—No. 136781,.A.—2nd Auguat 
1946.—The Governor ia pleased to cancel the 
notification No, 104181..A., dated the 2nd June 
1953, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act 
T of 1894. published at page 2003, Fart 1 of the 
Calcutta Gazette of the 18th idem in respect of 
the proposed nequisition of 2.527 acres of land 
or oatablishment of Teghoria Union Health 
entre in the village of Muragachha, jurisdiction 
list No. 30, thana Khardaha, pargana Calcutta, 
district, 24-8 


উরি 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3193 


a 


24-Parganas.—-No, = -13680L.A.—2nd August 
1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 4801) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 
1894, the Governor is pleased to withdraw from 
the acquisition of 0.003 of an acre of land noti- 
fied for acquisition under declaration No. 14012- 
L.A., টা the 10th September 1954, published 
at page 3166, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of 
the 23rd idem for the Baranagar Municipalit 
for extension of drain off Manya Sardar B. K. 
Moitra Road in the village of Baranagar, ۰ 
diction list No. 2, thana Baranagar, pargana 
Calcutta, district 24-Parganas, 


24-Parganas,—No. 13770L.A.(P. W.).—ord 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to cancel 
so much of the notification No. 17232L.A.(P.W.), 
dated the 16th November 1954, under section 4 
of the Land Acquisition Act I, of 1894, publish- 
ed at puges 3671-72, Part I of the Calcutta 
(razette of the 25th idem as amended by erratum 
No. 137661..A.(F.W.), dated the drd August 
1956, as relates to mieces of land measuring, 
more or less, 25.06 acres and comprising cadastral 
plots as detailed below, out of the total area of 
118.04 acres notified for acquisition for River 
Training measures to improve the navigability of 
the river Hooghly in the district of the 24-Par- 
yanas ;— 


Description of ٥ 
Thana Diamond Tlarbour, village Uttar-Simul- 
beria, jurisdiction list No. 2. 
Cadastral plots in full—11, 12, 518, 519. 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village Akalmegh, juris- 
diction list No. 3. 


Cadastral plots in part—389, 390, 386, 387, 
388. 


Cadastral plots in part—30, 31, 288, 289. 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village Nainan, juris- 
diction list No. 4. 
Cadastral plots in full—1282, 1283, 1284, 93. 
Cadastral plot in part—d. 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village 
jurisdiction 1151 No. 18. 


Cadastral plot 11) part—3. 


Rammnagar, 


24.Parganas.— No. WT72L.A.(P.W.).—3rd 
August 1956.—In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 481) of the Land Acquisition 
Act, I of 1894, the Governor is pleased to with- 
draw from the acquisition of a piece of land 
measuring, more or less, 0.28 of an acre and com- 
rising cadastral plot No. 3 and part of lot 

(0. 4 of -village Nainan, jurisdiction list No. 4. 
thana Diamond Harbour, out of 72.05 acres of 
lund covered by declaration No. 1512L.A.(P.W.,), 
dated the 73181 January 1955, published at page 
493, Part ] of the Calcutta Gazette of the 10th 
February 1955 as arhended by erratum No. 13768- 
L.A(P.W.), dated the 8rd August 1956, and 
required for River Training measures to improve 
the navigability of the River Hooghly m the dis- 
trict of the 24-Parganas, 


Hooghly.—No. 142761,.A.--15th August 1956.— 
Tn exercise of the powers conferred by section 48(1) 
of the and Acquisition Act, I of 1894, the 


Governor ja pleased to withdraw from the acquisi- 


tion of pieces of land) measuring, more or less, 
145 of an acre, and comprising cadastral survey 
plota as detailed below, out of .48 of an acre of land 
covered hy deelaration No, 202641,.A., dated 
1111) October 1955, published at page 4271, Part T 
of the Caleutta Gazette of the 20th idem and 
required for the Damodar Valley Corporation for 


3104 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 6 


Distributary N/4 from chainage 0.00 ئغ‎ chatn- 
age 27.60, in connection with the Damodar Flood 
Control Project in the district of Hooghly. 


DISTRICT HOOCHLY 
Thana Singur 


Mauza Gopal Nugar, jurisdiction hst No. 13. 
(‘adastral survey plots im part—T704 to 7706, 
1710) and T7711. 


ERRATA 


24.Parganas, — No. 18766L.A.(P.W.). — 3rd 
August 1956.—In notification No. = 17232- 
L.A(P.W.), dated the 16th November 1954, under 
section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 
published at pages 3671-72, Part I of the Caleutta 
Gazette of the 25th idem, in respect of the acqui- 
sition of land fer River Training measures to 
improve the navigahility of the river Hooghly in 
the district of the 24-Parganas, following changes 
will occur: — 


Read °113.94 acres’? for 118.20 acres’? in 
line 9. 


Diamond Harbour, village Nainan, 


Thana ۱ +H 
jurisdiction list No. 4. 
Insert “777” against cadastral plots in full. 


Read ‘‘52” for 62? occurring just 80698461017 
against cadastral plots in full. 


Diamond Harbour, village Ramnagar, 
jurisdiction list No. 18. 


Delete ‘‘1, 8’ against cadastral plots in part. 


Thana 


Burdwan,—No. 142941..A.—13th August 1956. 
—In notification No. 18530L.A., datéd the 7th 
December 1954, under section 4 of the Tand 
Acquisition Act, IJ of 1894, published at pages 
1747-1748, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, Extras 
ordinary of the same date in respect of the land 
required by the Damodar Valley Corporation for 
the excavation of Distributary G/1A from chain- 
age 105.20 to chainage 158.10 in connection with 
the Damodar Flood Control Project in the district 
of Burdwan— 


Read the word “Kulara’’ in place of the word 
“Kutra” in lines 9, 16 and 19. 


NOTICE 


Burdwan.—No. 13024L.A.(P.W.).—26th July 
1956.—Whereas the lands, described in column 2 
of the schedule below, were requisitioned under 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act LI of 1948), by order No. 341. 
of 1952-53, dated 20th July 1951, of the person 
nuthorised under the said section 3(1) but not 
subscquently acquired ; 


And whereas the said lands are to be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas the State Government has specified 
by an order under sub-section (1) of section 6 of 
the ssid Act, the persons mentioned in column 1 
of the schedule below to be the persons who appear 
to the State Government to be entitled to the 
possession of the lands described opposite such 
persons, in column 2 of that schedule; 


And whereas the aforesaid persons cannot be 
found and are not readily traceable and have no 
agent or other persons empowered to accept 
delivery on their behalf; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (3) of section 6 of the said 


[Parr I 


না 


Act, the Governor is pleased to declare that the 
soid ‘lands are released from requisition ;— 


Schedule 
Mauza Bijpur, police-station Memari, district 
Burdwan. 
Column ۰ Column 2, 
Name. ۱ Plot No. Area. 
1. Rabindra Nath Ghose, son of Gokul 3549 085 
Ch. Ghoso, Mithapukur Lane, 3815 
Burdwan. . 
8. Baidya Nath Paul, son of Ram Ch. 3440 045 
Paul, of Memari. 
9. Siddheswari Dasi, wife of Fakir 3780 ‘09 
Ch. Ghose, of Bijur. 
14. Narayan Ch. Paul, son of Chandra 3472 015 
Bhusan Paul, of Bijur. 
16. Gour Chandra Ghose, son of Panch- 3550 O15 
kari, Ghosh of Bijur. 
18. و و‎ Mondal, son of Nibaran 3451 002 
Ch. Mondal, of Dihipalason. 


20. Panchanan Goswami, son of Bhusan 
Ch. Goswami, Nani Gopal Gos- 
wam, son of Lal Goswami. 3943 03 
Anadi Nath Dutt, son of Ashutosh 
Dutt, of Bijur. 


21. Ramdasi Dasi, wife of Upendra 3782 09 
Nath Nandi, of Bijur. 3790 

23. Renupada Dutta, son of Jogendra 3562 065 
Nath Dutta, of Bijur. 

27. Nibaran Ch. Mondal, son of Ram 3434 ‘001 
Ch. Mondal, of Dihipolason, 

29. Sankari Bala Debi, wife of Sada- 3476 “115 
nanda Ray, of Beldanga, Bhatar. 

91. Kalipada Kayal, son of Panchkari 3551 03 
Kayal, of Bijur. 

33. Kashiswar Chattopadhya, son of 3776 03 
Siddheawar Chattopadhya, of 
Bijur, 

613 


Mauza Dihipolason, police-station Memari, district 


Burdwan. 
Column 1, Column 2. 
| een 
Name. Plot No. Area. 
&. Nrishingh Kesh and others, son of 669 005 
Ran Chandra Kesh, of Dihi- 
polason. 
12. Dhananjoy Das, son of Satish Ch. 722 005 
Das, of Bijur. 
‘01 


Mauza Barapulason, police-station Memari, district 


Burdwan. 
Column 1. Column 2. 
শশী পিস 
Namo. Plot No. Aroa. 
2, Abdul Ehia, son of Abdul Sovan, 2695 08 
of Barapalason. 
3. Abdul Jobbar Munshi, son of Abdul 2698 03 
Khaleque, of Mirzapur. 
4. Sk. Halem, son of Khadem Hosanin, 2697 “(5 
of Mirzapur. 
56. Charan Bala Dasi, wife of 2715 -08 
Panchanan Choudhury, of 62 
Bandarani Lane, Calcutta-12. 
6. 8k. Maniruddin, son of Sk. 2713 03 
Sukurulla, of Noapara. 
7. Sk. Abdul Gani, son of Sk. Atar Ali, 2604 
of Barapalason. 
8. Sk. Nabi Newaj and others, son of 2718 O15 
Khoda Newaj, of Barapalason. 2696 
9 Durgadas Banerjee and others, son “<a 
of Kalidas Banerjee, of Chupi. 
10. Chamirnddin Khan and others, son 2717 ‘O76 
of 8k. Madan Khan, of Barapa- 
19801), 
11. Ananta Khan, son of Benode Khan, 2716 023 
of Barapalason. 
12, Abdul Rab, son of Sk. Abu, of 2712 10 
Barapalason. 
১৮ 
493 
০১৩ 


Part 11 


DECLARATIONS 


24-Parganas. — No. 137641.A.(?.W.). — 3rd 
August 1956.—Whereas the Governor is satisfied 
{hat land is needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for River Train- 
ing measures to improve the navigability of the 
river Hooghly, it is hereby declared that for the 
above purpose pieces of land altogether measur- 
ing, more or less, 16.8: acres and comprising 
cadastral plots as detailed below, are needed for 
the aforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta in the 
district of 24-Parganas: 


District 24-Parganas 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village Uttar Simul-- 


beria, jurisdiction list No. 2. 
Cadastral plot in part—278. 


Diamond Harbour, village Akalmegh, 


jurisdiction list No, 3. 


Cadastral plots in full—2, 85, 86, 119, 114, 115, 
877, 121, 122, 146, 156, 157, 159, 379, 219, 273, 
318, 322, 323, 324, 326. 

Cadastral plots in part—124, 130, 391, 376, 277, 
278, 314. 


Thana 


Thana 


Diamond Harbour, village Nainan, 


jurisdiction list No. 4. 


Cadastral plots in full—128, 746, 747, 749, 750, 
751, 752, 757, 758, 759, 760, 761, 762, 763, 764, 
765, 766, 1285, 767, 768, 769, 770, 771) T72, 173, 
174, 775, 716, T77, 178, 179, 7380, 801, 803, 804, 
805, 806, 1266, 807, 808, 809, 810, 811, 812, 813, 
814. 815, 816, 817, 1285, 846, 847, 848, 849, 850, 
851, 852, 853, 855, 856, 857, 859, 860, 861, 862, 
*864, 865, 866, 868, 870, 871, 873, 8176, 880, 3৪1, 
883, 885, 886, 896, 897, 898, 901, 902. 


Cadastral plots in part—879, 878, 927, 745, 733, 
842, 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village 
jurisdiction list No. 18. 


* Cadastral plot in 092৮9, 


Ramnagar, 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of the 24-Parganas. 


Burdwan.—No. 142921,.A.—l15th Auguat 0۰ 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Buse Nos, 282A 
and 283A of Kalipahari-Burdwan section ۷4 
K.V. Transmission line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of scheme for the genera- 
tion, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Sanko, jurisdiction list 
No. 154, thana Galsi, distriet Burdwan, it is 
hereby declared that pieces of land comprising 
bart of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1800 and 2180 
and altogether measuring, more or less, .0412 of 
of an acre, are needed for the aforesaid public 
Purpose at the expense of the Damodar Valley 
Corporation within the aforesaid village of Sanko. 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, alate or other minerals 
Ying under the land or any particular portion 
Of the land exept only such parts of the mines 
Rnd minerals as it may be necessary to dig or 
carry away, or use in the construction of the 
work for the purpose of which the land is being 
acquired, ure not needed. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 3195 


ক _ حم چادد موی یں‎ স্ব SE PCA PDTC LACS 
পপ পপ পি ৯৯৯ ہے‎ 2 sapere 20 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, und section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIT of 1885, to all whem it may con- 
cern, 


A plan of the land) may he inspected in the 
office of the Special Lund Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


$ 


(Howrah.—No. 14352]..A.—16th August 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, مت‎ 8 for the construction of 
Rajganj Tee-Off Station in the village of Sankrail- 
jula, jurisdiction list No. 21, thana Sankrail, 
district Howrah, it is hereby declared that a piece 
of land comprising cadastral] plot Nos. 618 and 
619 and measuring, more or less, 1.21 acres is 
needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Calcutta Electric Supply Corpora- 
ae Ltd., within the aforesaid village of Sankrail- 
15151 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of ‘section 6 of the Act 1 of 1894, to all whom it 
may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector of Howrah. 


ERRATA 


24-Parganas. — No. 13768L.A.(P.W.). — 3rd 
August 1956.—In declaration No. 15121,.A.(P.W.), 
dated the 317 January 1955, under section 6 of 
the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published at 
page 493, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 
10th February 1955 in respect of the acquisition of 
land required for River Training measures to 
improve the navigability of the river Hooghly in 
the district of the 24-Parganas, following changes 
will occur :— 


Read “72.05 acres’”’ for ‘‘13.72 acres’’ in line 8. 


Akalmegh, 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village 


jurisdiction list No, 3. 


Read “74, 75” respectively for ‘64, 65’? 
occurring just after ‘‘73"’ against cadastral 
plots in full. 


Thana Diamond Harbour, village Nainan, jurie- 
diction list No. 4. 


Delete ‘779, 808, 901, 804, 897, 768, 770, 1266, 
128, 855, 777, 851? against cadastral plots 
in full and ‘927’? against cadastral plots 
in part, 


Burdwan.—No, 14296L.A.—13th August 1956. 
—In declaration No. 187721L.A., dated the 18th 
December 1954, under section 6 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published at page 
4074, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 23rd 
idem in respect of the land required by the 
Damodar Valley Corporation for the excavation 
of 1 7۶ 0114 from chainage 105.20 to 
chainage 158.10 in connection with the Damodar 
Flood Control Project in the district of Burdwan— 


Read the word তি) tn place of the word 
“Kutra’”’ in lines 8, 14 and 18. 


By order of the Governor, 


M. DATTA, Dy. Secy.‏ .۶ط 


3196 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 238, 1966 GParr 1 
Land Reforms 24-Parganas.—No, 136481..Ref.—Ist Auguat 

oe 1956.—Whereas an upplication has been made by 

ORDERS Shri Debendranath Sarkar, 29 Tansdowne Place, 


Murshidabad. -No. 136241,..Ref.—Ist August 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Pramatha Nath Roy Chowdhury and others 
of Gorkan, police-station Kandi, district Murshi- 
dabad, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable Gy them under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act in respect 
of all interests held by them as intermediaries in 
the district of Murshidabad ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad.—No. 13626L.Ref.—Ilst August 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Ajoyendu Narayan Roy of Jemo, post office 
Kandi, district Murshidabad, under sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 
Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of section 
8 of the said Act in respect of all interests held 
by him as an intermediary in the district of 


Murshidabad ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad.—No,. 13628L.Ref.—lst August 
1956.—Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Surendra Narayan Sinha of Nehalia, post 
office Jiaganj, district Murshidabad, under sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), 
for recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provfsions of section 
8 of the said Act in respect of all interests held by 
ae A an intermediary in the district of Murshi- 

abad ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the paid 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Howrah.—No. 13630L.Ref.—Ist August 1956.— 
Whereas an application hag been made by Shri 
Dooni Lal Seal and others of 53 Ramkrishnapur 
Ghat Road, Howrah, under sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition 
Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act ] of 1954), for reco- 
very by the State Government of all sums _ reco- 
verable by them under the provisions of section 8 
of the suid Act in respect of all interests held by 
them as intermediaries in the district of Howrah; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


Murshidabad.—No. 136321, Ref.—J]st August 
1956.—-Whereas an application has been made by 
Shri Kali Narayan Sinha of Nehalia, post office 
Jiaganj, district Murshidabad, under sub-section 
(1) of section 9 of the West Bengal Estates Acqui- 
sition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1964), for 
recovery by the State Government of all sums 
recoverable by him under the provisions of section 
8 of the said Act in respect of all interests held by 
him as an intermediary in the district of Murshi- 
dabad ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 


Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
applicataon. 


Caleutta-29, under sub-section (1) of section 9 of 
the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 
(West Bengal Act T of 1954), for recovery by the 
State Government of all sums recoverable by him 
under the provisions of section 8 of the said Act 
in respect of all interests held by him os an 
intermediary in the district of 24-Parganas; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred hy sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
appheation. 


Hooghly.—No. 13810L.Ref.—4th August 1960. 
Whereas an application has been made by Shri Siva 
Prosad Sinha Roy, Makalpur, Polba, Hooghly, 
under sub-section (1) of section 9 of the West 
Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), for recovery by the State 
Government of all sums recoverable by him under 
the provisions of section 8 of the said Act in 
respect of all interests held by him as an inter- 
mediary in the district of Hooghly; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 9 of the said 
Act, the Governor is pleased to grant the said 
application. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan.—No. 13782],.Ref.—4th August 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) 
of section 2 of the Waste Lands (Requisitioning 
and Utilization) Act 1952 (West Bengal Act IV 
of 1952), the Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
Sudhindra Nath Roy, Additional District Magis- 
trate, Burdwan, to carry out 91] the functions of 
a Collector under the said Act in the district of 
Burdwan. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum.—No. = 137781.. Ref.—4th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri Hem Chandra Dutta, Additional District 
Magistrate, Murshidabad snd Birbhum, as Revenue 
Officer for the purposes of the West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Act, 1958 (West Bengal Act I of 
1954), in respect of the districts of Murshidabad 
and Birbhum. 


Murshidabad-Birbhum.—No. = 137801. Ref.—4th 
August 1956,—In exercise of the power conferre! 
by clause (d) of section 2 of the West Bengal 
Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I 
91 1954), the Governor is pleased to appoint Shri 
Hem (Chandra Dutta, Additional — District 
Magistrate, Murshidabad-Birbhum, to discharge 4 
the functions of a Collector under the said Act, 
within the districts of Murshidabad and Birbhwn. 


Jalpaiguri.- -No, 139241.Ref.—7th August 1996 
—In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(1) of section 17 of the West Bengal Land Reforms 
Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), the 
Governor پر‎ pleased to make the following ninend: 
ment to the notification No, 7006L.Ret., dated the 
1111) Apri] 1956, published at pages 795 (1) to 


t 


Paget 1] 


حم 


সস ود ےت‎ Bnet! 


® 


795 (10), Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, Extra- 
ordanary, dated the 18th April 1956, namely :— 


Amendment 
In column I of the schedule to the said notifica- 
tion under the heading ‘District Jalpaigum’’, 
(a) Substituie “Sub-Registrar, Mainaguri’”’ 
for 
“Circle Officer, Mainaguri’’? and 
(b) Substitute ‘“Tand Reforms Officer, Dhupguri 
Circle’’ 
for 


“Circle Officer, 10110106071, 


2. This notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 1956, 


Jalpaiguri.——No. 139261,.Ref.—7th August 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(1) of section 18 of the West Bengal Land Reforms 
Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to make the following amendment 
to the notification No. 7008L.Ref., dated the 11th 
April 1956, published at pages 795 (10) to 56 
(19), Part I of the Calcutta Gazette Extraordinary, 
dated the 18th April 1956, namely : — 


Amendment 
In column I of the schedule to the said notifica- 
tion under the heading ‘District Jalpaiguri’, 
(a) Substitute ‘Sub-Registrar, Mainaguri’’ 
for 
“Circle Officer, Mainaguri’’ and 
(b) Substitute “and Reforms Officer, Dhupguri 
Circle’ 
for 
“Circle Officer, Dhupguri’’. 
2. This notification shall be deemed to have 


effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of Apri] 1956. 


Jalpaiguri.—No. 13928L.Ref.—7th August 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 
(2) of section 20 of the West Bengal Land Reforms 
Act, 1955 (West Bengul Act X of 1956), the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to make the following amendment 
to the notification No. 70101..Ref., dated the 11) 
April 1966, published at pages 795 (19) to 795 
(28), Part T of the Calcutta Gazette Extraordinary, 
dated the 18th April 1956, namely سس‎ 


Amendment 
In column I[ of the schedule to the said notifica- 
tion under the heading ‘District Jalpaiguri’, 
(a) substitute ‘‘Sub-Registrar, Mainaguri” 
for 
“Cirele Officer, Mainaguri’ and 
(b) substitute “Land Reforma Officer, Dhupgurt 
১1046? 
for 


“(11016 Officer, Dhupguri’’. 


2. This notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 1966. 


West Dinajpur.—No. 139301,.Ref.—7th Auguat 


10700, 110 exercise of the power conterred by sub- 


section (1) of aection 17 of the West Bengal Land 
Reforma Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1966), 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
amendment to the notification No. 7006L.Ref., 
dated the 1111) April 1956, published at pages 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


3197 


eS Se DT ৮০০ 
سورد خورا اس سس جب‎ ০৬ শা ہی‎ উপ 


795 (1) to 798 (10), Part 1 of the Calcutta Gazette 
Ketraordinary, dated the 18th April 1956, 
namely ٠س‎ 


Amendments 
In the schedule to the said notification under 
the heading “District West Dinajpur’— 
(1) Substitute’ ‘Subdivisional 
Officer, Balurghat”’ 


for 
“Shri Rohini Kumar De, 
Balurghat”’ in column 1; 
Substitute “Tnions No, I (inshira), 1 
(Dhalpara), IIT (Hili) of 11:11 police- 
station and Union No, IX (Chingishpur) 
of Balurghat police-station’ 


for 

‘Union Nos. 11 (Dhalpara) and TIT (Hili) 

of Hili police-station and Union No. IX 

of (Chingishpur) of Balurghat _ police- 

station’? in column 2; and 
(3) Substitute ‘“Danga, Patiram, Amritkhanda 
and QGopalbati Unions in Balurghat 
police-station”’ 


for 


“Dangu, Patiram and Amritkhanda in 
Balurghat police-station’’ in column 2. 


2. This notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 1956. 


Compensation 


Kanung, 


(2 


~s 


West Dinajpur.—No. 139321. Ref.—7th August 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 18 of the West Bengal Land 
Reforms Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
amendment to the notification No. 7U0O8L.Ref., 
dated the 116) April 1956, published at pages 
795 (10) to 795 (19), Part I of the Calcutta Gazette 


Extraordinary, dated the 18th April 1956, 
namely سے ؛‎ 
Amendments 


In the schedule to the said notification under 
the heading ‘District West Dinajpur’— 


41) Substitute  “Subdivisional Compensation 
Officer, Balurghat’’ 
for 

“Shri Rohimi Kumar JDe, Kanung, 


Balurghat’”’ in column 1; 

(2) Substitute ‘Unions No, I (Binshira), 1 
(Dhalpara), TIT (Hil) of Hili_ police- 
station and Union No, IX (Chingishpur) 
of Balurghat police-station’’ 


for 
‘Wnion Nos. LT (Dhalpara) and TIT )( 
of Hil police-station and Union No. ۸ 
of (Chingishpur) of Balurghat  police- 
station’’ in column 2; and 


(8) Substetute “Danga, Patiram, Amntkhanda 


and Geopalbati Unions im Balurghat 
police-station”’ 

for 
‘Danga, Patiram and Amritkhanda صا‎ 


Balurghat police-station”’ in column 2, 


2, This notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 196, 


West Dinajpur.—No.° 13934]. Ref.—7Tth August 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by suab- 
section (2) of section 20 of the West Bengal Land 
Reforms Act, 1955 (West Bental Act X of 1956), 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
amendment to the notification No. TOLL Ref., 
dated the 1111) Apr) 1956, published at pages 


3198 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


[Pan? I 


om 


795 (19) to 795 (28), Part T of the Calcutta Gazette 
Extraordinary, dated the 8th April 1956, 
namely :— 


Amendments 


In the schedule to the said notification under 
the heading ‘‘Distriet West Dinajpur’— 


(1) Substitute ‘‘Subdivisional Compensation 
Officer, Balurghat’’ 
for 

“Shri Rohini Kumar De, Kanungo, 


Balurghat’’ in column 1; 


(2) Substitute “Unions No. I (Binshira), II 
(Dhalpura), 1۱11 (Hil) of 1711 police- 
station and Union No. IX (Chingishpur) 
of Balurghat police-station’”’ 


for 
“Union Nos. 11 (Dhalpara) and 111 (11111) 
of Hili pohee-station and Union No. 1X 
of (Chingishpur) of Balurghat police- 
station’? in column 2; and 
(3) Substitute “Yanga, Datiram, Airitkhanda 
and QCopulbati Unions in Balurghat 
police-station”’ 
for 
“Danga, Patiram and Amritkhanda” in 
Balurghat poliee-station”’ in column 2. 


2. This notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


wn 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Agriculture 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 8452Apri.—2nd August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to grant Dr. H. ©. Choudhunri, 
Special Officer (Potatoes), West Bengal, study leave 
for a period of one year with effect from 11th 
August 1956. 


This cancels this department 
No. 8030, dated 26th July 1956. 


notification 


No. 8495Agri.—8rd August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to place the services of Shri Birendra 
Lal BHhowmick, Officiating Superintendent of 
Agriculture, Burdwan, at the disposal of the 
Government of India, until further erders, for 
appointment as Farm Superintendent, Indian 
Institute of Technology, Kharagpur. 


No. 8496Agri.—drd August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri Biman Kumar Dutta, 
Officer on Special Duty for the utilisution of the 
irrigation water of Damodar Valley and Mayuraksh 
Projects, to act, until further orders, as Superin- 
tendent of Agriculture,. Burdwan, vice Shri 
Birendra Lal Bhowmick. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. C. GOPE, Dy. Secy. 


Forests 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 7654For.—l3th July 1956.—In exercise of the 
powers conferred hy clauses (৫) and (b) of sub-section 
(1) of section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 
1927), the Governor is pleased to declare that it has 
been decided to constitute as reserved forest, to be 
called the Halna Reserved Forest, the lands measuring 
351-01 acres, acquired under Declaration No. 4480L.- 
Dev., dated the 26th March 1954, and situated in 
mauza Halna, jurisdiction list No. 77, police-station 
Maida, in the Sadar subdivision, in the district of Malda, 
and within the boundaries specified in schedule below :— 


Schedule. 
0. 8. plot No. Area in acres. 
1 sea re ‘718 
3 - 7 3:93 
4 a ae 07 
5 : 0 94 
7 os 0 -30 
8 7 10 
9 নট 026 
10 ‘ ৪8৪ 
11 oe *62 
12 re 0:85 
13 : 1۰1 
14 : 0-19 
15 a : .1 
24 : 1 0. 7 
26 0-15 
26 we 0-14 
27 7 ; 0 -23 
28 07 42 
29 7 .47 
30 0:55 
39 -29 
37 ee 1 -55 
38 7 34 
39 a “72 
41 : 1 -54 
46 -7 10 
47 Pe ‘91 
48 ae 1-10 
49 i 1-89 
50 7 1:56 
51 নি 1:96 
59 : ae 37 
53 ৬৪ 3.7 
54 oe ‘24 
63 oe 3-41 
64 ne 0-26 ~ 
65 7 “24 
66 ee 6 10 ۸ 
68 - 311 
69 1 ‘04 
70 7 ; 00117 
71 ر20‎ 
12 10 
13 ‘$0 
74 (part) 183 
716 8 3 
17 7-1) 
78 1 -28 
79 "06 
80 0:28 
81 -29 
82 2 -62 
৪3 : 004 
86 83 
87 ‘ 3°50 
88 ; 8 
89 ; es 2°42 
90 ‘ টা 0:22 
91 oe 10 
02 j ea 3:10 
93 7 0.0 
04 2 0-06 
05 : 7 40 
96 ۰ و‎ "(06 


97 2 0 05 


Part لہا‎ 


৪৪০ 


98 
99 
100 
101 
103 
104 


0. 8. Plot No. 


Area in acres. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 3199 
লিসা 
(০. ১. Plot No. Area in acres. 

194 এ is 1 -90 


سم 
oo »‏ 
o>)‏ 


wee GN OO سر‎ © te 
٠. > = بی‎ e a) e e s یب‎ s 
2 


بب ہر CO‏ ٭ یي SOM OOO‏ سر سر سر چن سم 
দু e ۶ ° ٠‏ ات ۰ e 7 e‏ 
یہ 


سم OS pm‏ ںین 


9 


196 - 7۳ 202 


ىہ 

© 
os 
ت‎ 
শি 
سج‎ 


197 05 
8 ۰ 392 
199 ‘ 1 -47 
200 0:44 
201 0-54 
202 , 0-71 
203 014 
204 0:46 
314 : 0-08 
318 me 28 8 
319 7 06 
320 : 0 -82 
32] 7 0 -82 
322 0 6:৪3 
324 ٦ 5°74 
325 ey 0-18 
326 2 06 
327 1:39 
328 16 
329 2-06 
330 2 a 11-73 
396 2 7 0-10 
397 (part) ~ 14-78 
399 44 
400 6 1 
402 8 . 
403 1 -96 
404 ey ٦ 0 -76 
405 -7 7 0 21 
407 is 7 2°13 
408 0 *28 
417 () "4 
418 6-15 
420 4:84 
419 6 -34 
482 0 -64 
483 1 -05 
484 0 +35 
485 0 -82 
486 1-10 
487 4-97 
488 0 -40 
489 0.1 
490 0 -37 
49] 1 -63 
492 5 -96 
493 0 -96 
494 0 -54 
499 5 -42 
42 0-12 
43 0-16 
44 0-30 
45 QO -65 
55 آ07‎ 
56 12 
67 -7 7٦ 00 
58 7 নি 0-73 
69 ore 0 -68 
60 0 -76 
61 1-36 
406 0 -36 
Total 7 3 11 


Boundaries 


North (+) Southern boundary of mauza Ranjubeel, 
jurisdiction list No. 45 of Malda police-station and 
(8) cadastral survey plot Nos. 6. 16, 21, 23, 205, 74 
(part), 33, 35 and 72 of mauga Haina, jurisdiction list 
No. 77 of Malda_police-station, 


East (¢) Western boundary of.mauza Mahammadpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 78 of Malda police-station and 
(ii) cadastral survey plot Nos. 331, 395 and part of 
plot No. 397 of mauza Halna, jurisdiction list No, 77 
of Malda policd-station, 


3200 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1966 


[Parr 1 


ee জলজ ল্লললঙ্া্লললিি লিলি 


South (4) Cadastral survey plot Nos. 397 (part), 454, 
455, 428, 429, 431, 432, 433, 434, 435, 436, 437, 438, 
411 and 401 (part) of mauza Halna, police-station 
Malda and (tt) northern boundary of mauza Kalnan, 
jurisdiction list No. 82 of Malda police-station. 


West (£) Eastern boundary of mauzas Kutubpur, 
jurisdiction list No. 79 and Basudevpur, jurisdiction list 
No. 80 of Malda police-station; (72) Cadastral survey 
plot Nos. 401 (part), 161, 162, 163 and 164 of mauza 
Halna, jurisdiction list No. 77 of Malda police-station 
and (iit) Eastern boundary of mauza Kalnan, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 82 of Malda police-station. 


2. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) 
of sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 
1927 (XVI of 1927), the Governor is pleased to appoint 
the Collector, Malda, to enquire into and determine 
the existence, nature and extent of any rights alleged 
to exist in favour of any person in or over any land 
comprised within the limits specified in the schedule 
given above, and to deal with the same as provided in 
Chapter II of the said Act. 


3. In exercise of the power conferred by section 
17 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), the 
Governor is pleased to appoint the Commissioner of 
Presidency Division to hear appeals from the orders 
passed by the Forest Settlement Officer under section 
11, section 12, section 15 or section 16 of the said Act. 


No. 7986For.—24th July 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased to appoint Shri N. Pal, I.F.S. (Retired), 
us a Mémber of the West Bengal State Board for 
Wild Life constituted by Government resolution 
No, 9992For., dated 17th October 1955. 


By order of the Governor, 


K. SEN, Secy. 


ভিসা বাড 


No. 820)71101. — 91৭ July 1956. سہ‎ Shri 
Narbahadur Gurung, M.L.A., of Kalimpong, 


district Darjeeling, is appointed as a member of the 
Forest Advisory Board for West Bengal reconsti- 
tuted in notification No. 5927For., dated 24th June 
19545, read with notification No. 7401For., dated 
6th August 1955, vice George Mahbert, M.L.A., 
deceased. 


No. 8383 or.—lIst August 1956.—The Governor 
is pleased ‘to allow Shri Prafulla Kumar Majum- 
der, acting Kxtra Assistant Conservator of Forests, 
leave reservist attached to the Working Plans Divi- 
sion, temporarily to hold charge of current duties of 
the Working Plans Division, until further orders, 
with headquarters at Darjeeling with effect from 
Ist August 1956, wee Shri Khirode Chandra Rai 
5, ৬.1). ,17,9, (re-employed), granted 
eave. 


By order of the Governor, 


R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


Cr 


Botanic Garden 


RESOLUTION 
No. 8406B.G.—ist August 1956.—The Governor 


1৪ pleased to constitute an Advisory Committée for 
the Indian Botanic Garden, Shibpore, and other 
Public Gardens under the control of the Botanic 
Garden Directorate, West Bengal, with the fol- 
lowing members :— 


(1) Shri S. .کا‎ Gupta, I.€.8., Chairman, 
Caleutta Tmprovement Trust-~Chairman.. 
(2) Shri Naresh Nath Mukherjee, M-L.A. 


(3) Shr K. P. Goenka, of 19 Velvedere Road, 
Caloutta-27, 


(4) Shri N. N. Mittra, representing the 
Oulcutta Flower Growers’ Association. 


(5) Mr. St. John Demetrius, representing the 
cathy Agri-Horticultural Society of 
ndia, 


۰ ٠ ' 
(6) The Commissioner, Calcutta Corporation 
(er offic), 


(7) The Deputy Commissioner of Police, THead- 
quarters, Calcutta (er officio). 


(8) The District Magistrate, Howrah 
(ex officio), 
(9) The District Magistrate, 24-Parganas 


(ex officio). 


(10) The Administrator, Howrah Municipality 
(ex officio). 


(11) Principal, Bengal Engineering College, 
Shibpore (ez ০101০), 


(12) Superintendent, 
(ex officio). 


Indian [Potanic Garden 


(13) Personal Assistant to the Chief Engineer, 
Works and Buildings Department (er 


officro), 


(14) Superintendent, Zoological] Garden 
(ex officio). 

(15) Deputy Secretary, Agriculture, Animal 
Husbandry and Forests Department 


(ex oficio)—Secretary. 


2. (Government may increase the number of 
members at any time if considered necessary. 


3. The term of office of the members of the 
Committee shall be three years, with effect from 
the date of issue of this resolution. 


4. The funetions of the Committee will be to 
advise Government on measures to be taken for 
improving public amenities, recreational facilities 
and facilities for popular education in the gardens 
as also steps to be taken for enhancing the beauty 
of the gardens and such other matter relating to 
the gardens as may be specifically referred 'to the 
Committee, 


5. The Committee shal] meet once a year or a8 
often as the Chairman may direct. The meeting 
of the Committee wil] be convened by the Secre- 
tary in consultation with the Chairman. Five 
members (including ez officio members) will form 
a quorum, 


6. The Chairman may nominate one of the 
members to be Vice-Chairman who will perform 
such ditties as may be entrusted to him by the 
Chairman from time to time. He will preside over 
the mectings in the absence of the Chairman. 


Order 


()71)7 8151) that the resolution be published in the 
Calcutta Gazette and that copies Es forwarded to 
the Chairman and other members of the Com- 
mittee for information. 


By order of the Governor, 


7. GANGULI, Dy. 99০5. 


[971] 


حسم ےم 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 238, 1956 9201 


বাস্তুহারা 51 ও ۹۹۰۳م“‎ +1۱ 


REFUGEE RELIEF AND REHABILITATION 
DEPARTMENT 


পংগ্থা। 
Establishment 
প্রজ্ঞাপনাবলশ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 
নং ৯০৫৭৮এস্ট।--৭ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-বাস্তৃহারা ঘ্রাণ ও পুনর্বাসন 
বিঙাগের wats একান্ত সচিব শ্রীমতী বাণী পালচৌধুরশকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ 
কৃতাক নিয়মাব্লর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৭৫১) সংখ্যক নিয়মানৃসারে ইংরাজশ 
৮ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তাঁরথ হইতে ১৪ই জুলাই ১৯৫৬ olay পর্ষ্ত 
চিকিৎসাপত্রবলে আর্ত ছুট মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


No. l0578Estt.— 7th August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor 18 pleased to allow Sm. Bani Pal Chowdhury, 
Private Secretary to the Minister, Refugee Relief 
and Rehabilitation Department, earned leave for 
seven days from 8th July 1956 to 14th July 1956 
an medical ground in extension of leave vranted 
reviously for fifteen days fron 23rd Tune 1956 to 

\h July 1006 noder rule 167Gi) of West Bengal 
Service Hules, Part I. 


নং ১০৫৮৬এস্ট।--৭ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।--পাশচষম দিনাজপুর জিলা 
বাস্তুহারা OT ও পুনর্বাসন আধিকারিক শ্লীশমশরেন্দ্রনাথ গুপ্তকে, পশ্চিম- 
বগ্গ কৃত্যক নিয়মাবলীর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৭৩২) ও ১৭৪৫১)৫এ) সংখ্যক 
পিয়মানৃসারে নিম্নলিখিত ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল ৪ 


ইংরাজশ ১০ই মে ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হইতে 'চিাকংসাপতবলে একুশ‏ ری 
দিনের আর্জত ছুটি।‏ 


(২) চাল্পেশ দিনের চাকৎসাপন্নবাল চিাকৎসা ا ہج‎ 
(৩) এগার 'দিনের 'চিকিংসাপতবালে অর্ধেক গড় বেতনে ছুটি। 
(8) চার দিনের বিনা বেতনে বিশেষ ٹک‎ - 


রাজাপালের আদেশানুজারে, 
কে, চক্তবত্তশী, 
উপ-সঁচিব। 


No. 10586Estt.—7th August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to allow Shri 8S. (۰. Gupta, Dis- 
trict Rehabilitation Officer, West Dinajpur, the 
following leave :— 


(1) earned 
twenty-one 
May 1996, 


(2) leave on medical certificate for forty days 
thereafter, 
~ 


(3) medical leave on half average pay for 
eleven days with effect from 10th July 
1946, ° 


(4) extraordinary leave without pay for five 
days thereafter, under rules 17302) and 
ডি of West Bengal Service Rules, 

art I. 


leave on medical certificate for 
days with effect from 10th 


No, 10584 Mstt.—7th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri A. P. Sinha, son 
of late Dr. R. M. Sinha, temporarily as Adminis- 
trator, Refugee Township at Tlabra in the district 
of 24-Purganas for a period of six months with 
effect from the date on which he assumes charge 
011৮ post or until further orders. 


This caneeln so much of this department nottfi- 
Cation No, 12178 lait... dated 30th Septembor 19595, 
88 relates to the appointment of Shri A. P. Sinha. 


No, 10591 Kstt.—7th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri Gobinda Tall 
Banerjee, son of Shri Hem Bunerjee, temporarily 
as Administrator for the Refugee Township at 
Taherpur, Nadia, for a period of six months with 
effect from the date on which he ussumes charge 
of the post or until further orders. 


This cancels this department notification 
No. 1761711786৮.) dated 9th February 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


K. CHAKRABARTY, Dy. Secy. 


RFS RELI, 


নং ১৯০৫৮৬এস্ট।-৭ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ ।-বাস্তুহারা ত্রাণ ও পুনর্বাসন 
আধকারের ডিসপোসাল ও 'িসেটেলমেন্ট 'ডিরেক্রীর শ্রী সি, আর, দাশকে 
পশ্চিমবগ PSS নিয়মাবলশর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৮৫৯) সংখ্যক নিয়মানসারে 
ইংরাজশ 2a SIME ১৯৫৬ Silay হইতে সতের দিনের চিকিংসাপযনবলে 
আর্জত ছুটি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


রাজ্যপালের আদেশান্মসারে, 
জার বস, 
AE কর্মসঁচব। 


No. 10588Estt.—7th August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to allow Shri C. R. Das, Director 
of Disposal and Resettlement attached to Refugee 
Relief and Rehabilitation Directorate, earned leave 
on medical certificate for seventeen days with 
effect from 2nd July 1956 under ruje 168(1) of 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


No, 10606Kstt.—9th August 1956.—The QGover- 
nor is pleased to replace the services of Shn K. C. 
Chakraverty, W. RB. ©. 8., Deputy Secretary, 
Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department, 
at the disposal of the Home (Cheneral Administra- 
tion) Department with effect from the date on 
which he is relieved of his present appointment. 


No. 10638 lstt.—l1th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri Kshirode Prosad 
Barua, Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector, 
aa Deputy Secretary to the Government of West 
Bengal‘in the Refugee Helief and Rehabilitation 
Department with effect from the date on which he 
assumes charge of the post until further orders 
vice Shri K. C. Chakrabarty released. 


By order of the Governor, 


7. BOSE, Jt. Secy. 


سشوسسسے۔ 


নং ১০৫৬০এস্ট।-৬ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।--বাঁকুড়া সদর মহকুমার 
মহকুমা বাস্তুহারা প্রাণ ও পুনর্বাসন আধিকারিক اھ‎ চক্রবর্তীকে 
পশ্চিমবঙ্গ Bare নিয়মাবলশর (১ম খণ্ড) ১৬৮৫১) সংথাক 7ء‎ 
Beret sok জুলাই ১৯৫৬ তারখ হইতে ছাব্বিশ দিনের wiles ছুটি 
মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


রাজ্যপালের আদেশানুসারে, 
fa, এন, সেন, 
উপ-সাঁচব। 

No. 1095001550,-700 August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to allow Shri Ramesh Chandra 
Chakrabarty, Subdivisional Relief and Rehabili- 
tation Officer, Bankura, earned leave for twenty- 


six days with effect from 10th July 1956 under 
rule 168(1) of West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 


B. N. SEN, Dy. Secy. 


3202 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


আল পপ কি এ কেস ১১১১১১১১০১১ ১0১0১ বু‏ مے نوم سے SRS‏ مم خی مم 
পা স্পা aa ৯৯ tap or‏ 


শিক্ষা বিভাগ । 
EDUCATION 71 
শিক্ষা। 


Education 


প্রআপনাবলশ। 
NOTIFICATIONS 


Calcutta. — No. 8159Edn./21-17/54. — 2nd 
August 1956.—Shri Nirmal Chandra Basu Roy 
Chowdhury, M.A., Assistant Professor of Eco- 
nomics, Central Caleutta College, in the West 
Bengal Educational Service (Men’s Branch), is 
granted leave on private affairs for the period from 
the Ist September 1956 to the 9151 December 1956 
under rule 172(a) read with rule 3 of Appendix 5 
of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part 1) in con- 
tinuation of the study leave sanctioned in this 
department notification No, 6662Edn., dated the Ist 
September 1964. 


ফাঁলকাতা ।-নং ৮১৭ণাঁশিক্ষা।8এ-৯০৫।৫৬।--৩রা আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ سإ‎ 
সেন্ট্রাল কালকাতা কলেজের পশ্চিমবঙ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের ہ)‎ 
বিভাগ) দর্শন শাস্তের spent উপাধ্যায় শ্রীনির্মলচন্দ্র ভট্টাচার্য অনান্ন, 
چڑ‎ থাকায় এ পদে ও এ কৃতাকে শ্রীপ্রদীপকৃমার সেনগুপ্ত, aya ls 
যোগদানের তারিখ হইতে পৃনরাদেশ পর্যন্ত অস্থায়িভাবে নিয়োগ করা 
হইল | ৮ 
Calcutta. —- No. 8177Kdn./4A-105/56. — 3rd 
August 1956.—Shri Pradip Kumar Sen (Cupta, 
M.A., is appointed to act as Lecturer in Philosophy 
at the Central Caleutta College, Caleutta, in the 
West Bengal Junior Educational Service (Men’s 
Branch), with effect from the date on which he 
joins there 7706 Shri Nirmal] Chandra Bhatta- 
charyya on deputation or until further orders. 


কলিকাতা ।-নং ৮১৯০ শিক্ষা ।84-১০৮।৫৬।--৩রা আগস্ট ১৯৫৬1 
কাঁলকাতা লেডশ ব্েবোর্ণ কলেজের পশ্চিমবঙ্গ অবর শিক্ষণ কৃত্যকের 
(মাঁহলা বিভাগ) বাংলার উপাধ্যায়া Hats শাম্তপ্রভা নাগ অবসর গ্রহণ 
করায় & পদে ও এ gure শ্রীমতি আরতি মুখোপাধ্যায়, এম,এ,কে 
যোগদানের Silay হইতে পুনরাদেশ পর্যাল্ত অস্থায়িভাবে নিয়োগ করা 
হহল। 

রাজ্যপালের আদেশানুসারে, 
ডি, এম, সেন, 
সাঁচব। 


Calcutta. — No. 8190Edn./4A-108/56. — 0 
August i956,—Shrimati Arati Mukherjee, M.A., 
is appointed to act as Lecturer in Bengali at the 
Lady Brabourne College, Calcutta, in the West 
Bengal Junior . Educational Service (Women’s 
Branch), with effect from the date on which she 
Joins there vice Shrimati Santi Prova Nag retired 
or until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. M. SEN, Secy. 


Office of the Accountant-General, West Bengal 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Subject:—Corrections to Treasury Rules 


No. TM/5565.--Ist May 1956.—Al] Treasury 
Officers and all Drawing Officers of the Govern- 
ment of India in West Bengal are informed of 
the following further correctiona in the Central 
Government Compilation of the Treasury Rules, 
Volume T (First Edition—Second Reprint) :— 


(1) Page 87—Rule 268(1).— 

Add the following after the words ‘‘shown in 
the office copy’? at the end of the certificate below 
this rule:—‘and that the emoluments drawn 916 
according to the relevant rules and ordery’’, 


[Pane I 


(2) Page 120—Rule 368.— 


Insert’ the following ‘‘note’’ below this rule 
nambering the existing ‘‘note’’ as note (1):— 


“Note (2).—The rules in this section do not 
apply to cases governed by rule 360”. 


; | Vide C. S. Nos. 207 and 208 to 0. T. R., Vol. 


Pp, C. HALDAR, 
Dy. Accountant-General (Admn.). 


Subject :—Certificate regarding the eligibility to 
compensatory (city) and house rent allowance 


No. TM/563.—15th June 1956.—It has been 
decided by the (tovernment of India, Ministry of 
Kinance, that a certificate as indicated helow 
should be endorsed by the Controlling Officers 
on all bills in which compensatory (city) 
allowance or house rent allowance is drawn. 
All Drawing and Disbursing Officers of the Union 
Government under the audit control of this office 
are, therefore, requested to ensure that the required 
certificate ig invariably furnished in future on all 
such bills in addition to the certificate required to 
be furnished for the aforesaid claims in terms of 
this office circular No. TM/2, dated 28rd April 
1948, 

Certificate 


“Certified that in the case of all Government 
servants for whom compensatory (city) allowance 
or house rent allowance is drawn in this bill, the 
eligibility for the allowance has been verified with 
reference to paragraph 3 of the Government of 
India, late Finance Department office memorandum 
No. F.6(1)Est (Spl)/47, dated 31st July 1947, as 
amended or clarified from time to time.”’ 

[G. ۱١ Ministry of Finance, 0..M. No. 2(3)F.- 
TI(B)/56, dated 2nd March 1956. Filed in 
BI.TM /15-4A.] 


L. P. KHANNA, 
Dy. Accountant-Genera] (Central). 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTICE 

Appellate Side 
Appointments and Transfers 


24-Parganas.—No. 4924A.—7th August 1956.— 
Shri Amiya Prasad Das, lately officiating Sub- 
ordinate Judge, Hooghly, now on leave, 18 
appointed to act, until ffriher orders, ag, Sub- 
ordinate Judye of 24-Parganas, vice Shri Santosh 
Kumar Ghosh. 


2. This cancels the orders contained in the 
Court’s notification No. 6504A., dated the 6th 
July 1956, appointing Shri Amiya Prasad Das, on 
reversion, to be a Munsif of Howrah, Sadar. 


24-Parganas-Howrah.—No. 4930A.—7th August 
1956.—Shri Santosh Kumar Ghosh, Subordinate 
Judge and Assistant Sessions Judge of 24-Par- 
ganas, is appointed to be a Subordinate Judge of 
Howrah, vice Shri Sailesh Chandra Talukdar. 


Leave, 
Hooghly.—-No. 4866A.—3rd August 1966.— 
Shri Ranendra Nath Datta, Suwhordinate Judge 


and Assistant Sessions Judge of Hooghly, is allow- 
ed earned leave under rule 1119) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I, for five 01৪ from 
the érd to the 7th August 1956. 


24-Parganas.-~No. 4894A.—6th August 1956.— 
Shri Haratosh Chakrabatti, Munsif of Diamond 
Harbour in the district of 24-Parganas, is allow- 
ed earned leave under rule 171(a) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part ,ا‎ for twelve days 
from the 6th to the 17th August 1596. 


K. C. SEN, Registras 


mar tl THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, 


টা অহা ورسسووبووچوودوہسسہم٭چھپیموساسبم-سسریووتمہمرٹایو‎ 
লি লা রি er ge সেল পনি পার ae রিতা ee eG ০ 


ORDERS BY COMMISSIONERS OF 
DIVISIONS 
Burdwan Division—Chinsura 


FORM “H” 
NOTICE 


Dated Burdwan, the 3rd August 06 

Whereas the property specitied in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Mogistrate, No. 145D.I., dated 2nd 
September 1944, with effect from 4th September 
1944, until] further orders, of the Central 
(Jovernment 5 

And whereas the Central (Government have 


decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


AUGUST 28, 1956 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
hy sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisition- 
ing and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 
1952 (No. XXX of 1952), 1, Shri A. K. Sen, 
1.A.8.. District Magistrate, being competent 
uuthority under the said Act, have specified 
Shri Harihar Dey and others, as the persons to 
whom possession of the said property shall be 
given ; 

And whereas the said Shri Harihar Dey and 
others cannot be found and have no agent or other 
person empowered to accept delivery on their 
behalf ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Magistrate, 
do hereby declare that the said property is released 
from requisition, 


٠ 


۱ 80 آ۵‎ 
Serial Name of mauza. Cadastral survey plot Area Name of owner. 
No. No. (acres). 
1 Bhadur, jurisdiction list No. 42, police-station 1124 ‘39 #Harihar Dey, son of Ananta Ram Dey, 


Ondal, distnct Burdwan. 


FORM ‘H” 
NOTICE 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hareto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Mayistrate, No. 221).I., dated 4th 
May 1945, with effect from 7th May 1945, until 
further orders of the Central Government; 


And whereas the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 
and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 


Cadastral survey plot Area 
No. (acres) 


Bhuban Dey, son of Ananta Ram Dey, of 
Bhadur. 


(No. XXX of 19652), I, Shri A. K. Sen LAS., 
District Magistrate, being competent authorit 

under the said Act, have specified Shri caveat 
Hazra and others as the রিনা to whom possession 
of the said property shall be given; 


And whereas the said Shri Sambhunath Hazra 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 
re person empowered to accept delivery on their 
vehalf 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, 1, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Name of owner. 


2°18 Sambhunath Hazra and others. 


57 The Ukhra Zam ndary Estate Ltd. (Private), 
Ukhra. 


(No. XXX of 1952), I, Shri A. K. Sen, 1,489) 


Schedule 
Serial Name of mauza. 
No. 
1 Ondal, jurisdiction list No. 52, police-station 5135 
Ondal, district Burdwan. 
2 Ditto re -- 5136 
FORM “H” 
NOTICE 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate, "Jo. 10D.I., dated 20th 
April 1945, with effect from 26th April 1945, until 
further orders of the Central (dovernment; 


And whereas the Central (tovernment have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
irom requisition ; : 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 
and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 


District’ Magistrate, being competent authority 
under the said Act, have specified Shri Nabagopal 
Ganguly and others os the persons to whom 
possession of the said property shall be given; 


And whereas the said Shri Nabagopal Ganguly 
and others cannot be found and have no agent or 
ডি person empowered to accept delivery on their 
yehalfs 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers cou- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, 7.A.8., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


“ Schedule 
Serial Name of mauza. Cadastral survoy Area Name of owner. 
No. plot No. (acres). 
1 Ondal, jurisdiction list No. 62, polico-station 4483 -18 Nabagopal Ganguly and others, 
Ondal, district Burdwan. 4485 ‘01 
4488 02 
: 4490 07ء‎ 
2 Ditto 4503 4:03 Gobordhan Roy and others. 
4475 07ء‎ 
4৫78 * 8 
3 Ditto 217 ‘02 Kartick Ch. Pal, son of Tarini Pal of 


. Kuldiha. 


ای 


WHE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


FORM “11 
NOTICE 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the [istrict Magistrate, No. 23D.1., dated 4th May 


1945, 


with effect from 7th May 1946, 


further orders of the Central Government: 


And whereas the Central 


Government 


until 


have 


decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 
and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 


Serial 
No. 


Name of mauza. 


1 Bhadur jurisdiction list No. 42, police-station 


2 


Ditto 


Ondal, district Burdwan. 


رف بی 


FORM “H” 
NOTICE 


_ [Parr T 


(No. XXX of 1962), I, Shri A. K. Sen, ۸.8۰ 
District Magistrate, being competent authority 
urder the said Act, have specified Shri Shiba Ram 
Hazra and others as the persons to whom possession 
of the said property shall be given; 

And whereas the said Shri Shiba Ram Hazra and 
others cannot be found and have no agent or other 
person empowered to accept delivery on their 
behalf ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred hy sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, T, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8., District Magis. 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Schedule 
Cadastral survey plot Area Name of owner. 
No, (acres). ۱ 
1001 2-72 Shiba Ram Hazra and others of Kajora. 
7 929 1-16 Prafulla Mondal, son of Ganga Bishny 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate, No. 26D.1., dated 22nd 
May 1942, with effect from Ist July 1942, until 
further orders of the Central Government; 
the Central Government have 


And whereas 


decided that the said 


from requisition; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 
and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 


Serial 
No. 


Name of mauza. 


1 Dakshinkhanda, jurisdiction list No. 36, police- 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditte 
Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 


station Ondal, district Burdwan. 


Schedule 
Cadastral survey plot Area Name of ownor. 
No. (acres). ’ 
4440 ‘06 Debendra Nath Kundu. 
4439 ‘08 Hemendra Neth Kundu, son of Fela Ram 
Kundu of Dignala. 
- 6743 ‘53 Keshab Ch. Misra, son of Kedar Nath 
, 5780 ٠۰5 Misra of Kajora. 
: 5792 °23 
و‎ 5777 ‘25 Ram Reghab Hazra, son of Kashi Ram 
we 7058 215 Hazra of Kajora. 
7059 01 
: 6944 ‘19 Haridas Mondal, son of Sudarshan Mondal. 
5990 *20 
os 5946 76 Anadiswar Kundu, son of Jiban Kundu of 
Muthdiha. 
a 6021 1:06 Dahu Sau, son of late Dalil Sau. 
i 7044 ۰18 Nandu, son of Late Kashimaddin of Arati. 
7045 05 
‘ 7048 ۰:4٤ Menaka Debi and others of Kajora. 
677 ‘06 Prafulla Kumar Mondal, son of Gangadhar 
Mondal of یم‎ 
‘ 4430 ‘25 Charu Bala Dasi, wife of Kamala Kanta 
Kundu. 
7 5766 ‘71 Bengal Coal Co. of Saktoria. 
5904 ‘15 
3 5832 ‘Ol Bhutnath Bowri, son of Baidyanath Bowri 
5836 “Ol of Bhadur. 
5878 ‘05 Radha Rani Dobi, wife of Shiba Narayan 
5881 06 Mookherji. ۱ 
6879 ‘06 Ashutosh Mookherji and others, sons of 
5883 03 Kanai Lal Mookherji. 
6196 -18 
5885 ‘18 Hrishikesh Chakravorty, son of Ganesh 
5886 02 Chakravorty. ° 
7 5900 "12 Tripurari Kaviraj, son of Dwarika Nath 
aviraj of Dakshinkhanda. 
7 5932 ‘05 Mahimapada Hazra, son of J agudiswar 
| Hazra of Dakshinkhanda. ۱ 
ie 6190 ‘09 Bidhuti Bhusan Mookherji, son of Kanai 
Mookherji of Dakshinkhanda. 
8104 ۰18 Ashutosh Mukhopadhya, son of Kanai 
Mukherji of Dakshinkhanda, ! 
7 7428 ۰:۵۸8 Nidhu Bala Dasi, wife of Gour Ch. Das of 


property shall be released 


Mondal of Kajora. 


Tarapada and others, sons of Sarat Tapadary 
of Baktarnagar, 


(No. XXX of 1952), I, Shri A. K. Sen, L.A.S., 
District Magistrate, being competent authority 
under the said Act, have specified Shri Debendra 
Nath Kundu and others, as the persons to whom 
possession of the said property shall be given; 
And whereas the said Shri Debendra Nath 
Kundu and others cannot be found and have no 
agent or other person empowered to accept delivery 
on their behalf; ۱ 
_ Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, IT, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Bhadur. 


Parr T] 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


8205 


রস سسرہ‎ ee পপ পপ পল 


FORM ‘tH 
NOTICE 


Whereas the properly specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate, No. 75D.1., dated Ist July 
1948, with effect from 165th June 1943, until 
further orders of the Central Government ; 


And whereus the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers couferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 
and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 


(No. XXX of 1952), I, Shri A. .کا‎ Sen, T.A.S., 
District. Magistrate, being competent authority 
under the said Act, have specified Sav. Renu Bala 
Debi and others as the persons to whom possession 
of the said property shall be given; 


And wheres the said Sm. Renu Bala Debi and 
others cannot be found and have no agent or other 
person empowered {to accept delivery on their 
behalf ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, [.A.S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Schedule 
Serial Name of mauza. Cadastral survey plot Area Name of owner. 
No. No. * (acres). 
] 00094, দাপট list No. 62, police-station 228 25 Renu Bala Debi and others of Kajora. 
Ondal, district Burdwan, 
2 Ditto - ne oe 228 °24 Kalidas Das and othors, sons of Banka 
Behari Das of Bhadur, 
3 Ditto i a 7 234 "05 Renu Bala Debi, wife of Bhut Ranjan 
224 -38 Chowdhury of Kajora. 
188 ° 24 
4 Ditto iw. 7 ও 209 ‘65 Karim Box and others of Bhadur. 
5 Ditto ও 7 3069 ‘01 Rupendra Mitra and others. 
6 Ditto 182 10 Daksha Bala Dasi and others of Dignala. 
7 Ditto Ae oh 185 ۰٠0۷7 Sashi Bhusan Layek, son of Modan Ch. 
226 -06 [48798 of Bhadur. 
8 Ditto 4 7 7 186 ۰٠١02 Anath Bandhu Mondal and others, sons of 
Shasi Bhusan Mondal of Dignala. 
0 Ditto 7 7 A 222 ‘09 Kena Kam Mondal, and others, sons of 
Babu Lal Mondal. 
10 Ditto +5 রি 232 12ء‎ Bagambar Layek, son of Umesh Layek of 
Bhadur. 
11 Ditto i ee a 233 : ‘09 Ahi Ram Majhi, son of Ananta Majhi of 
Dakshinkhanda. 
FORM “H” (No. XXX of 1952), 1, Shri A. K. Sen, LA.S., 
NOTICE District Magistrate, being competent authority 
under the said Act, have specified Shri Akali 
Whereas the property specified in the schedule Kusum and others as the persons to whom 


hereto annexed waa requisitioned by the order of 
the District Mayistrate, No. 163D.1., dated 2nd 
February 1948, with effect from Ist August 1942, 
until further orders of the Central Government ; 


And wherens the Central fovernment have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas in exervise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 
and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 


possession of the said property shall be given; 


And whereas the said Shri Akali Kusum and 
others cannot be found and have no agent or other 
person empowered to accept delivery on their 
behalf ; 

4 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.S., District Magis- 
trute, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Schedule 
Serial Numeo of maura, Cadastral survey plot Area Name of owner. 
No. No. (80:৩৪), 
1 07981, jurisdiction list No. 52, palice-station 267 22 Akali Kusum, son of Haridas of Kulti. 
Ondal, district Burdwan. 
2 Ditto 7 7 208 ۰28 10881787901) Singha, son of Doulat Singha of 
Ondal. 
: Ditto gia i 216 -03 Minor Shakar Keot and others of Dignala. 
4 Ditto জী ন্‌ 217 ‘01 Shashi Bhushan Layek son of Mohadeb 
Layek of Bhadur. 
4 Ditto - - yy 224 ‘02 Nidhu Bala Dasi, wife of Gour Ch. Daa of 
Bhadur. 
6 Bhadur, jurisdiction list No. 42, polico-station 987 ۰:92 13818 Ram Roy, son of Fakir Roy of Bhadur. 
Ondal, district Burdwan. 988 * 04 
7 Ditto a4 7 cae 1286 °21 Rupendra Nath Mitra and others. 
1287 °63 
8 Ditto 7 a + 1083 -08 Ram Shankar Hazra, son of Ram Bishnu 
1071 -08 Hazra of Kajora. 
9 Ditto 7 oe 7 929 ‘62 Minors Makarchandra Roy and others, sons 
085 ٠6 of Ganga Bishnu Roy of Bhadur. 
1000 04 
10 Ditto oe 7 oe 999 *22 Mukunda Das and others of Bhadur, 


3206 


FORM ؛یا؛؛‎ 


NOTICE 


৬ ০ 


Dated Burdwan, the 6th August 1956 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed wag requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate, No. 74D.1., dated Ist July 
1948, with cect from 15th June 1943, until 
further orders of the Central Government; 


the Oentral Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 


And whereas 


from requisition ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-gection (2) of section 6 of the Requisitioning 


Serial 
No. 


1 Bhadur jurisdiction list No. 42, police-station 
Ondal, district Burdwan. 


Ditto 

Ditto 

Ditto 

5 Ditto 
6 Ditto 
7 Ditto 
8 Ditto 
9 Ditto 
10 Ditto 
11 Ditto 
12 Ditto 
13 Ditto 
4 Ditto 
15 Ditto 
16 Ditto 
17 Ditto 
18 Ditto 
19 Ditto 
20 Ditto 
21 Ditto 
22 Ditto 
23 Ditto 
24 Ditto 
26 Ditto 
26 Ditto 
27 Ditto 


Name of mauza. 


ee 


بب 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 640 [Parr 1 


বা Seance mare ...ےت مم دح رادرس احچو‎ 
\ 
and Aequisition of Immovable Property Act, 282 
(No. XXX of 1952), I, Shri A. K. Sen, .ھ1‎ 
Distrivi Magistrate, being competent authority 
under the sail Act, have specified Shri Ramdayul 
Hazra and others as the persons to whom possession 
of the said property shall be given; 


And whereas the said Shri Ramdayal Hazra and 
others cannot be found and have no agent or other 
person empowered to accept delivery on their 


behalf ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Schedule 
Cadastral survey plot Area Name of owner. 
৮ No. (acres). 
1062 09 Ramdayal Hazra of Kajora. 
1064 ‘24 Panchanan Bhaduri, son of Protap Bhaduri., 
1110 "12 Labu Dasi, wife of Kshudi Ram Ghosh of 
747 05 Bhadur, 
1213 ر2‎ 
1107 ‘08 Gorachand Mondal and others of Kajora. 
1132 -20 Dole Gobindaé Das, son of Banwari Lal Das. 
1211 -08 
1188 04 
1135 ‘14 Bala Ram Roy, son of Fakir Ch. Roy of 
Bhadur. 
7 1139 রী *36 Kehudi Ram Doy, son of Kunja Behari Dey. 
1168 03 
1140 "05 Baidya Nath Dey, son of Surjya Kanta 
1144 * 22 Dey. 
1150 ‘07 Lakshmi Narayan Kundu, son of Giridhari 
Kundu of Bhadur. 
746 ۰02 Monohar Dey, son of Gour Ch. Dey, of 
Bhadur. 
761 ‘20 Kalimani Dasi, wife of Rai Charan of 
Bhadur. 
1225 ‘02 Dole Gobinda Ghosh, son of Kangal Ch. 
Ghosh of Bhadur. 
123] ۰04 Prahlad Ch. Dey, son of Raghunath Dey of 
Bhadur. 
1223 ۰:08 Basini Bala Dasi, wife of Krishna Ch. Roy 
of Bhadur. 
1220 04 Aloke Baran Chakravarty, son of late 
Dharanidhar Chakravarty of Bhadur. 
1210 01 Kshuku Bala Dasi, wife of Kalipada Majhi 
of ‘Bhadur, 
1214 ‘01 Monohar Ch. Dey, son of Gour Ch. Dey 
of Bhadur. 
1180 -06 Sita Ram Dey, son of Kunja Behari Doy 
of Bhadur. 
1167 02 Haripada Dey, son of Surjya Narayan Dey 
of Bhadur. 
1157 20 Lakshminarayan Kundu, son of Dildhari 
Kundu of Bhadur. 
1162 ‘07 Kalipada Nandi, son of Ashutosh Nandi 
of Bhadur. 
1163 ‘06 Bala Ram Roy and others of Bhadur, 
1164 ‘06 Harendra Nath Roy, son of Kangal Roy of 
Bhadur. 
1158 °06 Kaliman: Dasi, wife of Raicharan Nandi 
of Bhadur. 
1151 ‘13 Minor Nirmal Ch. Roy and others sons of 
Kshudi Ram Roy of Bhadur. 
1066 1:00 Local Board. 
1162 3°07 
1145 ‘08 Gobinda Prosad Nandi, son of Maga Ram 


Nandi of Bhadur, 


Part 1[ 
ig 


FORM “H” 


NOTICE. 


Dated Burdwan, the 9th August 1956. 


Whereas the property specified in the schedule 
hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order of 
the District Magistrate No. 138D.I., dated 29th 
July 1943, with effect from 18 Octuber 1942 
until further orders of the Central Government; 


And whereas the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the 
Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable 
Property Act, 1952 (No. XXX of 1952), I Shri 
A. K. SEN, I.A.S., District Magistrate, heing 
competent authority under the said Act, have 
specified Bengal Coal Company, Ltd., as the 
person to whom possession of the said property 
shall be given; 


And whereas the said Bengal Coal Company, 
Itd., cannot be found and has no agent or other 
person empowered to accept delivery on 78 
behalf ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the suid 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.8S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition. 


Schedule 
Cadastral 
Name of mauza. survey Area. Name of the owner. 
plot No. 

Dignala, juriadio- 2495 1.95 Bengal Coal Co.,_. 
tion list No. 43, 2997 3.06 Ltd., Sakeria Sano- 
police-station 3005 .1 toria. 

Ondal, district 
Burdwan. 


A. K. SEN, Collector, 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, 
| Western Range 


No. 6399.—2nd August 1956.—Bankura.— 
Shri Dhirendra Prasad Das, officiating Inspector, 
Bankura, is granted twenty-one days’ earned leave 
under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I, with effect from the 28th July 
1966 or from any subsequent date of availing 
himself of the same. 


টি, 1, B., Serampore, (Hooghly).—Shri Kshetra 
Mohan Mukharji, officiating Inspector, D. I. B., 
Seram pore (Tlooghly), now on lenve, is granted 
seventeen days’ leave on half average pay on 
medical certificate under rule 173(1) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I, in extension of the 
leave already granted to -him صا‎ notifiration 
No. 5530, dated 5th July 1956, published in the 
aleutta Gazette, dated 26th July 1956. 


S. M. GHOSH, Dy. Inspr.-Genl. 


Presidency Division—Calcutta 


No. 8243.—7th August 1956.—It is hereby noti- 
fled for general information that in exercise of 
j © powers conferred by rule 66(2) of the Bengal 
ail Code, 1987, Volume I, 7th Edition as amend- 
৭৫, I, with the sprior approval of Government, 


'Ppomt the following persons to be non-official 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3207 


visitors of the Diamond Harbour Sub-Jail in the 
district of 24-Farganas for a period of two years 
with effect from the date of this notification :— 


(1) Shri Phani Bhusan Bose, M.A., B.L. 
(2) Shri Hanshadwaj Dhara. 
(3) Shrimati Hemnalini Bala. 


No. 1443M.—6th August 1956.—It is hereby 
notified under section 50 of the Bengal Municipal 
Act, 1932 (Bengal Act XV_ of 19382), that Shri 
Kali Charan De and Shri Ram Krishna De have 
been duly elected Chairman and Vice-Chairman, 
respectively, of the Naihati Municipality in. the 
district of the 24-7008 85۰ 


No. 860J.—14th August 1956.—It is hereby 
notified for general information that in exercise 
of the powers conferred by rule 56(2) ef the 
Bengal Jail Code, 1937, Volume I, 7th Edition 
as amended, I, with the prior approval of Gov- 
ernment, appoint the following persons to be non- 
official visitors of the Kandi Sub-Jail in the dis- 
trict of Murshidabad for a period of two years 
with effect from the date of this notification :— 


(1) Shri Birendra Kumar Chakravarty. 
(2) Dr. D. L. Das. 


No. 1589R.G.—1l1lth August 1956.—Shri Ram 
Prosad Chakravarti, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation), posted ٥٢ 
the Fresidency Division under Government noti- 
fication No, 2957G.A., dated 7th August 1956, 
is posted temporarily to the Raiganj subdivision 
of the West Dinajpur district and is appointed as 
Circle Officer, رٹ‎ 


No. 1594R.G.—14th August 1956.—Shii Ranjit 
Kumar Ganguly, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Deputy Collector (on leave), posted to the Presi- 
dency Division under Government notification 
No. 2887G.A., dated 38181: July 1956, is posted to 
the Barrackpore subdivision of the 24-Parganas 
district on genera] duties. 


No. 1697R.G.—14th August 1956.—Shri 
Prithwi Nath Mallick, SubDeputy Magistrate 
and Sub-Deputy Collector, Barrackpore, 24-Par- 
ganas, 1s transferred to the Baraset subdivision of 
that district and is appointed as Circle Officer, 
Baraset (West) vice Shri Satchidananda Bando- 
না Circle Officer, Baraset (Weat), trans- 
erred. 


K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF NADIA 
Draft Cancellation Notification 


Dated Krishnagar, the 11th August 1956. 


Whereas by a notification No. nil, dated Krish- 
nagar, the 38rd December 1955, published at page 
437, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 
2nd February 1956, I required all persons interest- 
ed in the waste lands specified therein to show 
cause within the prescribed time, why the waste 
Jands should not be requisitioned ; 


And whereas, after considering all such peti- 
tions and after making further enquiry, I am 
satisfied that the waste lands mentioned in the 
aforesaid notification should not be requisitioned ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred on me under sub-section (9) of section 4 of 
the Waste Lands (Requisitiening and Utilisation) 
Act, 1952, I hereby cancel entirely the aforesaid 
notification relating to lands measuring, more or 
less, 84.65 acres of mauza Durlavpur, jurisdiction 
Ne 93, police-station Karimpur, district 

8019. 


M. 6. MUKHERJI, Collector. 


3208 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 [Parr 1 


০ 


Orders by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, over charge, vice Shri Atul Chandra Chakrabatti, 
Inspector of the said district now on deputation 


Central Range to the C. I. D., West Bengal. 

No. 4528.—#ih July 1956.—Murshidabad.— 9 | کت‎ 
Shri تزا]‎ Misra, Armed Inspector, Murshidabad, ‘a th 8. I. Kanai وا مت‎ of 24-Parganas, is, 
is granted twenty-one days’ earned leave with effect in the interest of public service, temporarily trans- 
from 27th July 1956 under rule 167(ii) of the ferred to Nadia and appointed to act as on Inspec. 
aot ای حجار‎ Serving Mules Part | tor in the said district with eftect from the date 

gal * , he takes over charge, vice Shri Parsanath Chatarji, 


1. 24.Parganas, C. নি, P., Sealdah, C. 1. D., Inspector of the said district now on deputation to 
West Bengal-Nadia.—S. I. Raghu Nath Karijee of “4-Parganas D. KE. B. 


24-Parganas, is, in the interest of public service, 
temporarily transferred to Government Railway 
Police, Sealdah and appointed to act as an 
Inspector there with effect from the date he takes M. A. H. MASWOOD, Deputy Inspector-General. 


Both to move at once. 


Presidency Division—Jalpaiguri 
OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MAGISTRATE, MALDA 


ORDER 


No. 3877G.—2nd August 1956.—In exercise of the powers delegated to me by 
the Director of Consumer Goods, West Bengal, in his memo. No. XITA(82)55(FU), 
dated 6th July 1956, by paragraph 16 of the West Bengal Soft Coke Distribution 
Order, 1955, I, in supersession of all previous orders, fix the retail selling rates of 
coal in different centres of this district as noted below and sale of coal exceeding 
the selling rate as fixed herein is prohibited : 


22 Price per maund 
District. Area. Type of coal. (ex-Retailer’s depot) 
exclusive of sales tax. 


Rs. a. p. 

Malda -. Englishbazar -» Soft coke .. 2 8 3 
Old Malda ee Ditto 2 2 3 

Samsi 7 সন Ditto .. 22 3 

Harishchandrapur .. Ditto .. 2 4 3 


S. C. BASU, District Magistrate. 


ws 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, 


COOCH BEHAR JALPAIGURI 
ORDER 
Dated Cooch Behar, the 7th August 1956. 
In exercise of the powers conferred by section ORDER. 

20 of the West Bengel Security Act, 1950, as 

delegated to me by the State Government by 

notification No. 21702 /80-9/50, dated 1161) April Dated the 4th August 1956. 

1950, of the Home 1 টি ا‎ 

ernment of West Bengal, under section 38 ں‎ । ۱ j 
the said Act, I do hereby order that movement of নত? نی سس کے ہت‎ ole নি 
be ate 2 سای‎ ee 1 ینا سے ا‎ miles tion Order, 1947, delegated to me by the Director 
১2571 ogee 9 ی۶۶۰‎ ۶٦ of Consumer Goods, West Bengal, by his order 


hibited. The Indian citizens residing within the No XII 7ھ‎ (F'.U.) dated the Oth 
aforesaid area may, however, obtain their supplies 1 1953, 1 Shri S. B. Roy, 1. A.S., Deputy 


of the aforesaid commodities for their personal Commissioner, Jalpaiguri, hereby fix the retail 
consumption only. price of soft coke in Saktigarh Colony of Rajgan) 

The dealers having their places of business police-station of Sadar Subdivision, Jalpaiguri, 48 
within two miles from the border may bring 1n per schedule below. 


stock for sale with a permit issued either by the 
Subdivisional Controller of Food and Supplies or 


by the Subdivisional Officer and shall maintain The rate will be in force with immediate effect 
accounts for each sale to bona fide customers and in respect of soft coke booked and imported hefore 
will also mention names and address of such the recent enhancement of peat head price by Rs. 
purchasers in the cash memos. issued so as to per ton:— 
enable 106 রা or any 2 officers 
authorised in this bebalf to verify the same at 
any time. Schedule, 

The aforesaid order shall remain in force for . 
three months with effect from 15th August 1956. یو۶۷‎ ۹۹7٤ রি 


Any violation of this order shall be punish- 
able according to law. 


K. P. SEN, District Magistrate. S. B. RAY, Doputy Commissione?: 


Part I] 
¢ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 8209 


পরি লি OR RT AT EE TMT 


* 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. A/Cs.86123C.T. /2E/96/55-56.—30th July 
1956.—Shri T. R. Thiruvengadam, Additional 
lIncome-tax Officer, Non-Companies (Income-tax- 
cum-Excess Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, is 
allowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, 
earned leave for forty-one days with effect from 
lith June 1956 to 2186 July 1956 with permission 
to prefix and affix Sundays the 10th June 1956 and 
22nd July 1956, respectively, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


No. E386392C.T. /2E /38/56-57.—81st July 1956. 
—Shri B. M. Mitter, Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner, Headquarters, West Bengal, is, with 
effect from 1st August 1956, appointed to hold 
charge of Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, 
Estate Duty Range, Calcutta. 


2. Shri B. .ا(‎ Mitter, Inspecting Assistant 
Commissioner, Estate Duty Range, Calcutta, is. 
with effect from lst August 1956 and in addition to 
his own duties and until further orders, appointed 
to hold charge of Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner, Headquarters, West Bengal. 


No. A/Cs.36545C.T. /2E/54/55-56.—I1st August 
1956.—Shri Narindar Singh, Income-tax Officer, 
II(2), Calcutta, is allowed, under the Revised 
Leave Rules, 1938, earned leave for forty-two 
টা with effect from 28th June 1956 to 8th August 
1956. 


It is certified that the officer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


No. A/37029-123C.T. /2P /9/55-56.—2nd August 
1956.—In pursuance of sub-section (5) of section 
5 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), 
und in modification of all existing orders on the 
subject, the Commissioner of Income-tax, West 
Bengal, hereby directs that on and from the first 
day of August 1956 the Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income-tax, Estate Duty Range, 
Calcutta, shall and the Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of JIncome-tax, Headquarters, West 
Bengal, shall not perform the functions of an 
Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax 
in respect of persons or classes of persons or 
Incomes or classes of incomes or areas in respect 
of which the Income-tax Officers of 7 Estate 
Nuty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Calcutta, (2) Estate 

uty-cum-Income-tax Circle (Mufussil), Calcutta, 
and (3) Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, 
Jalpaiguri, perform their functions as Income-tax 
Officers. 


No. A/36891C.T. /2P/9/56-56.—81lst July 1956. 
—A new charge of Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax to be known as ‘‘Estate Duty 
Range, Calcutta’’, is created with effect from the 
Firat August 1956. 


2. The headquarters of the Inspecting Assis- 
tant Commissioner of Income-tax, 1088806 Duty 
Range, shall be at Calcutta. 


No. A/(s. 36561C.T. /2E/45/56-57.—1st August 
1956.—Shri V. Ramachandran, Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Special Survey Circle VII, is allowed, 
under the Revised Leave Rules, 19383, earned leave 
for ten days with effect from 25th June 1966 to 
4th July 1956, with permission to prefix Sunday, 
the 24th June 1996. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to return, 
ou the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


It is further certified that the officer would have 
continued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 
Officer, 01988 II, but for his proceeding on 
"(30۳0311 leave from 25th June 1956 to 4th July 


No.  E/37220C.T. /2E/1/66-57.—2nd August 
1956.—Shri R. Rangaya, Income-tax 
Officer, Class I, Grade II, who has been transferred 
to this charge under Central Board of Revenue order 
F. No. 67/1/56-Ad.VI, dated the 30th May 1956, 
18, with effect from the forenoon of the 380th July 
1956 posted as Income-tax Officer, Special Circle I, 
vice Shri 1), K. Sarkar, I.R.S., transferred. 


On being relieved by Shri R. Rangaya, Shni 
DD. K. Sarkar, Income-tax (fficer, is posted as 181 
Additional Income-tax Officer, Non-Companies 
(Incume-tax-cum-Excesa Profits Tax) District I, 
Calcutta, relieving Shri P. P. Kaistha, I.R.S., 
Income-tax Officer, Non-Companies (Iucome-tax- 
cum-Excess Profits Tax) District I, Calcutta, of 
this additional charge. 


8-۵ 


No. E/87355C.T./2E/33/56-57.—3rd August 
1956.—Shri S. Narayan, Assistant Commissioner, 
who has been transferred to the Income-tax 
Department, West Bengal, under Central Board 
of Revenue order F. No. 27/14/56-Adm.- 
VI, dated the 3rd May 1956, is, with effect from 
the forenoon of 14th July 1956 and under section 
5(5) of the Income-tax Act, posted as Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, Range VI, 
relieving Shri 9. N. Roy, transferred under Central 
‘Board of Revenue order quoted above. 


No. E/37356C.T. /2E/33/56-57.—3rd August 
1956.—Shri Amjad Hussain, Assistant Commis- 
sioner, who has been transferred to the Income-tax 
Department, West Benyal, under Central Board 
of Revenue order F. No. 27/14/56 Adm.VI, dated 
the 3rd May 1956, is, with effect from the fore- 
noon of 1110) July 1960, and under section 5(5) of 
the Income-tax Act, posted as Inspecting Assis- 
tant Commissioner of Income-tax, Range VII, vice 
Shri K. N. Banerjee, proceeded on leave. 


No. A /Cs.88612C.T. (28/225 /54-55. — 6th 
August 1956.—Shri K. N. Banerjee, Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax, Range VII, 
Oaleutta, allowed, under rule 81(b)(i1) of Funda- 
mental Rules, leave on average pay for two months 
five days with effect from 11th July 1956 to 15th 
September 1956, with permission to affix Sunday, 
the 16th September 1956, to the leave. 


It is certified that the officer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


No. A/Cs.37254C.T. /2E/35/52-53.—2nd August 
1956.—Shri ডি. P. Choudhury, Income-tax Officer, 
Special Survey Circle VI, Calcutta, is allowed, 
under the Revised Leave Rules 1933, earned leave 
for forty-two days with effect from 28th July 1956 
to 7th September 1956. 


It is certified that the officer is likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


8210 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


[Parr I 


NE া  শ‏ س”س‫-یشسسسیتتمصسیمییسیربت صصح :ص تسس سییپیپیی. م4“ ہًیییتیی یتسس تتتت--حتحتت بب .یہ 2 ۶ .02 2:ص سس سجدہ.]۳.۔. کو یت sal:‏ تو سس تتتتتتت بت ص یبور .سس جح سو ت0 


No. E/87665C.T. /2H-16/56-57. ہے‎ 38rd August 
1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (3) of section 6 of the Indian Income- 
tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, West Bengal, Calcutta, hereby 
appoints the undermentioned persons as Income- 
tax Officers :— 


Date of joining 
(forenoon). 


80th July 1956 
Ist August 1956 


Name 


Shri 0. G. A. Naidu 
Shri R. Ponnappa Pillai 


Accordingly, they are, with effect from the date 
noted against their names, appointed as Income- 
tax Officer, Class II, on trial in the Income-tax 
Department, West Bengal, Calcutta, in the scale 
of pay of Rs. 276—25—500—EKE.B.—30—650— 
E.B.—30—800 under the terms and conditions 
intimated to them in the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division) letter 
No. F.22/24/55-Ad.VI, dated 12th July 1956, 
which have been accepted by them. 


They are posted to the office of the Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax, West Bengal, Calcutta, for 
training. 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTA, 


ORDERS 


No. <A/Cs.36052C.T. /2E/194 1 AC /64-55.—80th 
July 1956.—In continuation of this office order 
No. 20397C.T. /2E/194/AC/54-65, dated 8th June 
1966, Mr. S. A. Hakim, Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District II(1), Calcutta, is allowed, under 
rale 81(b)(1i1) of Fundamental Rules, an extension 
of leave on average pay for twenty-eight days with 
effect from 19th June 1956 to 16th July 1956. 


It is certified that the officer was likely to return, 
on the expiry of his leave, to the post from which 
he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying similar 
rates of allowances. 


It is further certified that the officer would have 
continued to officiate in the post of Income-tax 
Officer, Class II, but for his proceeding on above 
leave on average pay. 


No.  E/389071C.T. /2E-1/56-57.-—9th August 
1956.—The charges of the 2nd and 38rd Additional 
Tncome-tax Officers, Special Survey Circle II, are 
merged with that of Ist Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Special Survey Circle II, with effect from 
the 10th August 1956, 


Shri U. N. Bala, 3rd Additional Income-tax 
Officer, Special Survey Circle II, is, with effect 
from the same date appointed to hold the charge 
of Ist Additional Income-tax Officer of the district 
relieving Shri P. C, Pandey, Income-tax Officer, 
Special Survey Circle IT. 


The charges of Ist Additional and 2nd Additional 
Income-tax Officers, Special Survey Circle III, are 
merged with that of the Charge Income-tax Officer 
of the same district with effect from the 10th 
August 1956. 


The charge of the 3rd Additional Income-tax 
Officer. District I'V(3), is merged with that of the 
168 Additional Income-tax Officer of the same 
district with effect from the 10th August 1956. 


No. E/89072C.1T. /ZE-1/56-57.—9th August 
1956.—Shri .لا‎ N. Bala, 1st Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Special Survey Circle IT, is, in addi- 
tional to his own duties, apponted to hold charge 
of Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle IT, 
206 Shri P, C, Pandey, transferred, 


On relief by Shri U. N. Bala, Shri P. C. Pandey, 
I.R.S., Income-tax Officer, Special Survey Circle 
II, is transferred and posted as Ist Additional 
Tncome-tax Officer, District I(1), vice Shri R. C. 
Sinha Biswas, transferred. 


On relief by Shri P. C. Pandey, Shri R. C. 
Sinha Biswas, 1st Additional Income-tax Officer, 
District I(1), is posted as 4th Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District I(1), vice Shri A. T. Govindan, 


transferred. 


On relief by Shri Shri 
A. . Govindan, 4th Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District I(1), is transferred and posted as 
Income-tax Officer, District IV(3), vice Shri M. 8S. 
Dutta, transferred. 


R. C. Sinha Biswas, 


On relief by Shri A. T. Govindan, Shri M. 8. 
Dutta, ILR.S., Income-tax Officer, District IV(3), 
is transferred and posted as Income-tax Officer, 
District I(1), vice Shri N. G. Das Gupta, appointed 
as Assistant Commissioner. 


No, A/Cs.360510.T. /2E/94/55-56.—30th July 
1956.—Shri .ا‎ Vishvanathan, Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District II(I), Calcutta, is 
allowed, under the Revised Leave Rules, 1933, 
earned leave for twenty-three days with effect from 
8th June 1956 to 30th June 1956 with permission 
to affix Sunday, the lst July 1956, to the leave. 


It 1s certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on the expiry of his leave, to the post from 
which he proceeded on leave or to a post carrying 
similar rates of allowances. 


No. 2 — 6th August 
1956.—In exercise of the powers conferred under 
section 5(5) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, 
I hereby direct that Shri 8. K. Banerjee, Income- 
tax Officer, Class II, whose services have been 
placed at my disposal by the Commissioner of 
Income-tax, West Bengal shall perform all the 
functions of an Income-tax Officer under the said 
Act in respect of such persons or classes of persons 
or of such incomes or classes of income or in 
respect of such areas as may be allocated to him 
from time to time. 


Shri 9. K. Banerjee, Income-tax Officer, Class 
TI, is, with effect from the date he reports for 
duty in Calcutta, posted as 6th Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District V, Calcutta, vice Shri তি. I. 
Tripathi, I.R.S., proceeding on leave. 


No. E/39257C.T. /2-1/56-57. — 10th August 
1956.—Shri A. T. Govindan, Income-tax Officer, 
who will take over charge as Income-tax Officer, 
District IV(3), with effect from the afternoon of 
the 14th August 1956 is, with effect from the 
afternoon of the 17th August 1956 and in addition 
to his own duties appointed to hold the charge 
of 2nd Additional Income-tax Officer, District 
TV(3), vice Shri D. C. Rajagopalan transferred. 


On relief, Shri D. C. Rajagopalan, 2nd Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, District IV(8), 18 
transferred and posted as Charge Income-tax ۰١ 
cer, District VA, vice Shri 9. K. Sen transferred. 


Parr I} 


০০ 


an SRE Ew PE 


On relief, Shri 8S. K., Sen, Income-iax (80091 
District VA, is transferred and posted as Charge 
Income-tax Officer, District [V(2), vice Shri A. M. 
Rao promoted as Assistant Commissioner, 


No. FE /39225C.T. /2E-1/56-57. — 10th August 
1956.—Shri Aloke Banerjee, 6th Additional 
Tncome-tax Officer, District II(1), Calcutta, is, 
with effect from the 13th August 1956, appointed 
to hold the charge of 6th Additional Income-tax 
Officer of the same district, vice Shri M. C. Mech. 


The charge of the 6th Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District TI(1), Calcutta, is merged with 
that of 5th Additional Income-tax 000৮2, Dis- 
trict II(1), Caleutta, with effect from the same 
date. 


On relief Shri M. C. Mech, 5th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District II(1), Calcutta, 18, 
with effect from the 18th August 1956, transferred 
and posted as 2nd Additional Income-tax Officer, 
Railways and Miscellaneous Salaries Circle, 
Calcutta, vice Shri M. LL. Kabra, 


On relief, Shri M. L. Kabra, 2nd Additional! 
Income-tax Officer, Railways and Miscellaneous 
Salaries Circle, Calcutta, is, with effect from the 
13th August 1956, posted as 18 Additional 
Income-tax Officer of the same district relieving 
Shri J. K. Kundu, I.R.S., Income-tax Officer, 
Railways and Miscellaneous Salaries Circle, 
Calcutta, of this additional charge. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 011 


Shri Kulraj Singh, 8th Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District 1৮0), Calcutta, is, with effect 
from the 13th August 1956, appointed to hold the 
charge of 5th Additional Income-tax Officer, Dis- 
trict TV(2), Calcutta, vice Shri Bhagyadhar Das 
transferred, 


The charge of the 8th Additional [noome-tax 
Officer, District IV(2), Calcutta, is merged with 
that of 5th Additional Income-tax Officer of the 
same district with effect from the same date. 


On relief, Shri Bhagyadhar Das, 5th Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District J v2 , Calcutta, is, 
with effect from the 13th August 1956, transferred 
and posted as Ist Additional Income-tax Officer, 
District VA, Cualeutta, relieving Shri 8. K. Sen, 
Income-tax Officer, District VA, Calcutta, of this 
additional charge. 


No. K/40686C.T. /2E-1/56-57, — 13th August 
1956.—Shri M. ۰ط‎ Menon, 6th Additional Income- 
tax Officer, District 102), Calcutta, is, transferred 
and posted as 3rd Additiona] Income-tax Officer, 
District I(1), Caleutta, wice Shri طز‎ K. Naha 
transferred. 


Shri B. K. Naha, 3rd Additional Income-tax 
Officer, District I(1), Calcutta, is transferred and 
posted as 6th Additional Income-tax Officer, Dis- 
trict (2), Calcutta, vice Shri لا‎ KR. Menon 
transferred. 


The above orders should take effect by the 16th 
August 1956 at the latest, 


S. P. JAIN, Commissioner. 


8212 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 [Parr I 
সা Sh tS a as 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX (CENTRAL), CALCUTTA 


ORDER 


No, A4726/C.T.C. /2E-20/55-66.—2nd August 
1956.—Shri D. G. Pradhan, Income-tax Officer, 
Central Circle VI, Calcutta, 28 allowed, subject to 
eligibility, earned leave under the Revised Leave 
Rules, 1938, for nineteen days from 215৮ July 
1956 to 8th August 1956. 


2. Shri N. Subba Rao, Income-tax Officer, 
Central Circle VIII, Calcutta, has been directed 
to hold charge of the Income-tax Officer, Central 
Circle VI, Calcutta, from 21st July 1956 im addi- 
tion to his own, vice Shri D. G. Pradhan, on leave. 


3. It ia certified that on the expiry of his leave 
Shri Pradhan is likely to return to the post from 
which he proceeds on leave or to be posted to a 
post carrying similar rates of pay and allowances. 


V. 9. K. 1). NADAR, Commissioner. 


Part 1 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


১১ 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 


PUBLIC NOTICE UNDER SUB-SECTION (2) 
OF SECTION 17 OF THE WEST BENGAL 
EVACUEE PROPERTY ACT, 1951. 


REVENUE 


NOTICES. 


(1) No. 23401E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 
(2) No. 23403E.P.A., dated 17th May 19565. 


(3) No. 
(4) No. 
(5) No. 
(6) No. 
(7) No. 
(8) No. 
(9) No. 
(10) No. 


(11) No. 


(12) No. 
(13) No. 
(14) No. 
(16) No. 
(16) No. 
(17) No. 
(18) No. 
(19) No. 
(20) No. 
(21) No. 
(22) No. 
(23) No. 
(24) No 
(25) No 
(26) No. 
(27) No 
(28) No 
(29) No. 
(30) No. 
(31) No. 
(32) No. 
(33) No. 
(34) No. 
(35) No. 
(36) No. 
(37) No. 
(38) No. 
(39) No. 
(40) No. 
(41) No, 
(42) No, 
(43) No, 
(44) No. 
(45) No, 
(48) No. 
(47) No, 


23405E.P.A., dated 
23407K.P.A., dated 
23409E.P.A., dated 
2341 1E.P.A., dated 
23413E.P.A., dated 
23415E.P.A., dated 
23417E.P.A., dated 
23419E.P.A., dated 
23421K.P.A., dated 
23423E.P.A., dated 
23425E.P.A., dated 
23427E.P.A., dated 
23429E.P.A., dated 
23431E.P.A., dated 
23433E.P.A., dated 
23435E.P.A., dated 
23437E.P.A., dated 
23439E.P.A., dated 
23441E.P.A., dated 
23443E.P.A., dated 
23445E.P.A., dated 


, 23447E.P.A., dated 
. 23449E.P.A., dated 


23451K.P.A., dated 


. 23453E.P.A., dated 
. 23455E.P.A., dated 


23457E.P A., dated 


23459E.P.A., dated 17th May 19555. 
1955. 


23461K.P.A., dated 
23463E.P.A., dated 
23465E.P.A., dated 
23467E.P.A., dated 
23469E.P.A., dated 
23471 E.P.A., dated 
2247 315,1১4, dated 
23475K.P.A., dated 
23477E.P.A., dated 
23479K.P.A., dated 
23481H.P.A., dated 
23483H.P.A., dated 
23767E.P.A., dated 
23760E.P.A., dated 
23771 K.P.A., dated 
23773 E.P.A., dated 
23776E.P.A., dated 


176) May 
l7th May 
1701) May 
176) May 
1761) May 
170) May 
170) May 
17th May 
1701) May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
1701) May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
176) May 
17th May 
176) May 
17th May 
\7th May 
17th May 
17th May 


17th May 
1701) May 
17th May 
1761) May 
1701) May 
7th May 
1701) May 
17th May 
17th May 
17th May 
1761) May 
1701) May 
26th May 
26th Nay 
26th May 
26th May 
26th May 


1955. 
1955. 
1955, 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1956. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
19565. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1956. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 


1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955, 
1955. 
1955. 
1955. 
1955, 
1955. 
1955. 
1955, 
1955. 


(48) No 


(49) No. 
(50) No. 
(51) No. 
(52) No. 
(53) No. 
(54) No. 
(55) No. 
(56) No. 
(57) No. 
(58) No. 
(59) No. 
(60) No. 
(61) No. 
(62) No. 
(63) No. 
(64) No. 
(65) No. 


(66) No. 


(67) No. 
(68) No. 
(69) No. 
(70) No. 
(71) No. 
(72) No. 
(73) No. 
(74) No. 
(75) No. 
(76) No. 
(77) No. 
(78) No. 
(79) No. 
(80) No. 
(81) No. 
(82) No. 
(83) No. 
(84) No. 
(85) No. 
(86) No. 
(87) No. 
(88) No. 
(89) No. 
(90) No. 


(91) No. 


(92) No. 
(93) No. 
(94) No. 
(96) No. 
(96) No. 
(97) No. 


(98) No. 


B213 


23777E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 


23779K.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
23781E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24084F.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24086E.P.A., dated 26th May 1956, 
24088H.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24090M.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24002E.P.A., dated 26th May 5. 
24094E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 
24096E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
21008E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24100E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24102E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 
24104E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24106E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
21108E.P.A., dated 26th May 1956. 
24110E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


241]12E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24114K.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24116E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24118E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24120E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24122K.P..A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24121E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
2412bE.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24128E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24130E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24132E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955, 
24134E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24136E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24138E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24140E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24142E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24144E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24146E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24148E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24150E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24152E.P.A., dated 26th May 1956. 


24154K.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
24156K.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


251586.P.A., dated 26th May 1950. 
24160E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
94162K.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24164E.P.A., dated 26th May 1956. 
24166E.P.A., dated 26th May 5۰ 


24168E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 
24170E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
P41TZE.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24174E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


24176E.P.A., dated 26th May 19655. 
24178E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


3214 THE CALCUTTA 08717111155 AUGUST 23, 1956 


a লজ 
(99) No. 24180E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
(100) No. 24182E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 
(101) No, 24184E.P.A., dated 9196 May 1955. 
(102) No. 241 8677.7.4 dated 3lst May 1955. 
(103) No, 24188E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


(104) No. 24190E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(105) No. 24192E.P.A., dated 3186 May 19565. 


(106) No. 24144E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(107) No. 24196EP.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(108) No. 24198E.P.A., dated 2186 May 1955. 


(109) No. 24200E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(110) No. 24202E.P.A., dated 9186 May 1955. 
(111) No. 24204E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(112) No, 24206E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(113) No. 24208E.P.A. dated 31st May 1955. 
(114) No. 24210E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(115) No. 24212E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(116) No. 24398E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(117) No. 24400E.P.A., dated 9186 May 1955. 
(118) No. 24400E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 
(119) No. 24404E.P.A., dated 2186 May 1955. 
(120) No. 24406E.P.A., dated 9196 May 1955. 
(121) No, 24406E.P.A., dated 3lst May 19565. 
(122) No. 24410E.P.A., dated 3181٦ May 1955. 
(123) No. 24412E.P.A., dated 3tst May 5۰ 
(124) No. 24414E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(125) No. 24416E.P.A., dated 2186 May 1955. 
(126) No. 24418E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(127) No, 24420E,P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(128) No. 24422E.P.A. , dated 3186 May 1955. 
(129) No. 24424E.P.A., dated 3181 May 1955. 
(130) No. 24426E.P.A., dated 3168: May 1955. 
(131) No. 24428K.P.A., dated 3786 May 1955. 
(132) No. 24430K.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(199) No. 24432E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(134) No. 24434E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(135) No. 24436E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(136) No. 24438.P.A , dated 3lst May 1955. 
(137) No. 24440K.P.A., dated 918৮ May 1955. 
(138) No. 244421.P.A., dated 3198 May 1955. 
(139) No. 24444E.P.A., dated 9156 May 1955. 
(140) No. 24446E.P.A., dated 31st May 1956. 


(141) No. 24448E.P.A., dated 3]st May 1955. 
(142) No. 24450E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(143) No. 24452E.P.A., dated 310۲ May 1955. 


(144) No. 
(145) No. 
(146) No. 
(147) No. 


(148) No. 
(149) No, 


24454E.P.A., dated 2186 May 1955. 
24456E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956. 
24458E.P.A., dated 3186 May 5۰ 
24460E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 
24462E.P.A., dated 8318: May 1955. 
24464E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


(150) No. 
(151) No. 
(152) No. 
(153) No. 
(154) No. 
(155) No. 
(156) No. 
(157) No. 
(158) No. 
(159) No. 
(160) No. 
(161) No. 
(162) No. 
(163) No. 


(164) No. 


(165) No. 
(166) No. 
(167) No. 
(168) No. 
(169) No. 


(170) No. 


(171) No. 


(172) No. 
(173) No. 
(174) No. 


(175) No. 
(176) No. 
(177) No. 


(178) No. 
(179) No. 


(180) No. 
(181) No. 


(182) No. 
(183) No. 
(184) No. 
(185) No. 
(186) No. 
(187) No. 
(188) No. 


(189) No. 
(190) No. 
(191) No. 

No. 24550E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


(192 
(193 


(195 
(196) No. 


(197) No. 
(198) No. 


(199) No. 
(200) No. 


24466E.P.A., dated 3186 May 19565. 
24468E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24470K.P.A., dated 3156 May 1955. 
24472K.P.A., dated 318۸ May 1955. 
24474K6.P.A., dated 318: May 1955. 
24476E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24478E.P.A., dated 3156 May 1955. 
24480E.P.A., dated 3180 My 1955. 
24482KE.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24484E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24486E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24488E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24490K.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24492E.P.A., dated 3156 May 1955. 
24494E.P.A., dated 3lst May 19565. 
24496E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24498E.P.A., dated 8186 May 1955. 
24500K.P.A., dated 9186 May 1925. 
24502E.P.A., dated 9186 May 1955. 
24504E.P.A., dated 3156 May 1925. 
24506H.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24508E.P.A., dated 3lst May 19565. 
24510E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24512E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24514E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24216E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24518KE.P.A., dated 318 May 1955. 
24520K.P.A., dated 9186 May 1955. 
24522E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24524E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24526E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24528E.P.A., dated 3186 May 19565. 
24530E.P.A., dated 9156 May 1955. 
24532E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956. 
24534E.P.A., dated 9180 May 1055. 
24586E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
24538E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
24540E.P.A., dated 9186 May 19565. 
24542E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956, 
24544E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 
24546E.P.A., dated 8318+ May 1955. 
24548E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


. 24552K.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


24554E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


) No 
(194) No. 
) No. 24556E.P.A., 


24558E.P.A.,, 
24560E.P.A., 
24562K.P.A., 


24504E.P.A., 


24566E.P.A., 


dated 3186 May 1955. 


dated 2186 May 
dated 3lst May 
dated 9180 May 


dated 8186 May 
dated 3196 May 


1955. 
1956. 
1955. 


1955. 
1955. 


Pagt TJ 


=== 


201) No. 24568E.P.A., dated 8196 May 1955. 
(202) No. 24570H.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(203) No. 24572E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(204) No. 24574E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 
(205) No. 24576E.P.A., dated 318+ May 1955. 
(206) No. 24578K.P.A., dated 3ist May 1955. 
(207) No. 24580E.P.A., dated 9186 May 1955. 
(208) No. 24582E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955. 
(209) No, 2484751১485 dated 3186 May 1955. 
(210) No. 24586E.P.A., dated 8186 May 1955. 
(211) No. 24588K.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 
(212) No. 24590E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
(213) No. 24592K.P.A., dated 9186 May 1955. 
(214) No. 24594K.P.A,, dated 3lst May 1955. 
(215) No. 24596E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
(216) No. 24508E.P.A., dated 318৮ May 1955. 


Notice is hereby given that the Evacuee Property 
Management Committee for West Bengal constituted 
under sub-section (1) of section 11 of the West Bengal 
Evacuee Property Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act V of 
1951), propose to take charge of the evacuee property 
described in the Schedule below under the provisions 
of clause (a) of sub-section (7) of section 17 of the 
said Act. 


Any person interested in the property who has any 
objection to the taking charge of the property by the 
Committee may file objection in writing before the 
Committee at its office at Writers’ Buildings within 
3186 August 1055. 


The Schedule. 
(1) No. 23401E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 638, 
Plot No. 418], Area -86, Owner—Shri Lal Chand 
Mondal. 


4 


(2) No. 23403E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 
District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 


Mauza Dukhin Nimta, J. ہا‎ No. 8, Khatian No. 798, - 


Plot No. 4191, Area ۰۱0, Owner--Shri Soleman Mondal. 


(3) No. 23405E.P.A., dated 17th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1364, 
Plot No. 4321, Area 108, Owners—Sri Khoshal 
Mondal and others. 


(4) No. 23407E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian.No. 694, 
Plot No. 4325, Area -05, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(5) No. 23400E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 630, 
Plot No. 4308, Area ‘04, Owner-—Shri Latabat Mondal. 


(6) No. 23411E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mawza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 781, 
Plot No. 4316, Area -28, Owner- -Shri Maijaddin Mondal. 


Ne anemone سم‎ I A IT OCTET IONS NITE: 4ب‎ TT ca 


Sa A a a a OY 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 211) 


وت تحت সা‏ 


(7) No. 23413E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 600, 
Plot No. 4317, Area -12, Owner—Shri Raisaddin 
Mondal. 


(8) No. 23415E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas,  Police-station 


Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Aren. 
698 3665 ‘28 
855 3666 24 


Owner—Shri Sadek Ali Mondal. 
(9) No. 23417E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Pargana, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Jakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 780, 
Plot No. 3657, Area -11, Owner—Shri Reajaddin 
Mondal. 


(10) No. 23419E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1297, 
Plot No. 3877, Area -53, Owner—Shri Latibali Mondal. 


(11) No. 23421E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1281, 
Plot No. 3651, Area +50, Owner—Shri Reajaddin 
Mondal. 


(12) No. 23423E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1054, 
Plot No. 3645, Area ۰12, Owner—Shri Lal Bahar Gazi. 


(13) No. 23425E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1028, 
Plot No. 3659, Area ۰13, Owner—Shri Akkas Mondal. 


(14) No. 23427E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 429, 
Plot No. 5365, Area -65, Owner—Shri Belayet Gazi. 


(15) No. 23429E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1297, 
Plot No. 3877, Area ‘538, Owner—Shri Latibali Mondal. 


(16) No. 23431E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Pargunas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 76, 
Plot No. 4073, Area -17, Owner-—Shri Hadek Mondal. 


(17) No. 23433E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 516, 
Plot No. 6377, Area -27, Owners—Shri Harej Gazi 
and others. 


(18) No. 23435E.P.A., dated 17th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Poice-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Sultanpur, J. L. No. 10, F hatian No. 446, Plot 
No. 353, Area ‘60, Owner-—Shri Rahaman Mondal. 


(19) No. 23437E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8 Khatian No. 582. 
Plot No. 4602, Area -13, Owner—Shri Bararat Mondal. 


9216 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST ৩৭, 1956 [Pary 1 
ee ০০১৩ 


(20) No. 23439E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1080, 
Plot No. 4603, Area -14, Owner—Shri Rased Mondal. 


(21) No. 23441E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1372 
Plot No, 4601, Area -13, Owner —Shri Habibar Mondal. 


(22) No. 23443E.P.A., dated 17th May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-stution Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1244, 
Plot No. 4612, Area ۰15, Owncer—Shri Rustam Mondal. 


(23) No. 23445E.P.A., dated 1700 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 416, 
Plot No. 4614, Area -41, Owner-—Shri Abdul Mondal, 


(24) No. 23447E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1019, 
Plot No. 9468, Area -13, Owner—Shri Mataleb Mondal. 


(25) No. 23449E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1527, 
Plot No. 9464, Area -35, Owner—Shrimati Suklal 
Bibi. 


(26) No. 23451E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1184, 
Plot No. 9348, Area -46, Owners—Shrimati Fuljan 
Bibi and others. 


(27) No. 23453E.P.A., dated 17th May 1965. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1207, 
Plot No. 9350, Area ہ۰39‎ Owner—Shri Dedar Box 
Mondal. 


| 
(28) No. 23455E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 818. 
Plot No. Area. 
4548 *]6 
4570 1ء‎ 


Owner—Shri Ajit Mondal. 


(29) No. 23457E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1106, 
Plot No. 4563, Area -06, Owner—Shri Amirali Gazi. 


(30) No. 23450E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1281, 
Plot No. 3567, Area -33, Owner—Shri Reajaddin 
Mondal. 


(31) No. 23461E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1012, 
ae No. 3677, Area ۰41, Owner—Shrimati Nabijan 

ibi. 


(32) No. 23463E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-stution Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1489, 
Plot No. 3676, Area ۰1۱12, Owner—Shri Yakub Mondal. 


(33) No. 23465E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 786, 
Plot No. 3632, Area ۰36, Owner—Shri Akkas Mondal. 


(34) No. 23467E.P.A., dated 17th May 19565. 


District 24-Pargunas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 305, 
Plot No. 3633, Area 85, Owner—Shri Hurnj Mondal. 


(35) No. 23469E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1489, 
Plot No. 3688, Area -34, Owner—Shri Yakub Mondal. 


(36) No. 23471E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1202, 
Plot No. 4533, Area -39, Owner—Shri Hafejaddin, 
Mondal. 


(37) No. 23473E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 665, 
Plot No. 4552, Area -40, Owner—Shri Shek Hadu. 


(38) No. 23475E.P.A., dated 17th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1350, 
Plot No. 3664, Area -79, Owner—Shrimati Nabijan 
Bibi. 


(39) No. 23477E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. ر604‎ 
Plot No. 9564, Area -21, Owner—Shri Golam Rasul 


Mondal. 


(40) No. 23479E.P.A., dated 17th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 5665, 
Plot No. 9474, Area -11, Owner—Shri Omarali Sha 


Fakir. 


(41) No. 23481E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. lu. No. 8, Khatian No. 1012, 
Plot No. 9570, Area -51, Owner-—Shri Hajer Molla. 


(42) No. 23483E.P.A., dated 17th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 148, 
Plot No. 4924, Area -63, Owner—Shri Ektar Mondal. 


(43) No. 23767E.P.A., dated 26th May 1956. 


District 24-Parganus, Police-station Nuihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1396, Plot No, 152, 
Area -42, Owner—Shri Golam 13810801090 Mondal. 


(44) No. 23769E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. 1, No. 9, Khatian No. 553, Plot No. 
2352, Area ۰37, Owner—Shri Bukar Mondal. 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 9211 


৯০০০ পপ 
উস ود سوہ سر رد سے سے ہس ےس سے‎ 


(45) No. 23771E.P.A., dated 26th May 15. ۹ 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1027, Plot No. 932, 
Area 47, Owners—-Shri Benode Shek and others. 


(46) No. 238773E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 658, Plot No. 
2680, Area 1-14, Owner-—Shri Kinu Laskar. 


(47) No. 28775E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 832, Plot No. 866, 
Area -29, Owner—Shrimati Nurjan Bibi. 


(48) No. 23777E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Polico-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 836, Plot No. 852, 
Area ۰23, Owners—Shri Dim Mohammad Mondal 
and others. 


(49) No. 23779E.P.A., dated 26th May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 833, Plot No. 869, 
Area +44, Owners—Shri Din Mohammad Mondal 
and others. 


(50) No. 23781E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 835, Plot No. 884, 
Area -30, Owners-——Shri Din Mohammad Mondal 
and others. 


(51) No. 24084E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Polico-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 576, Plot No. 228, 
Area ۰48, Owners—-Shri Rustam Lashkar and others. 


(62) No. 24086E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 576, Plot No. 478. 
Area -66, Owners—-Shri Rustam Laskar and others. 


(53) No. 24088E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 79, Plot No. 92, 
Area -36, Owner—Shri Shahebjan Shek. 


(64) No. 24090E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District, 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1386, Plot No. 106, 
Area ۰45, Owner—Shri Rahaman Shek. 


(55) No. 24092E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 830, Plot No. 346, 
‘27, Owners——Shrimati Jamila Khatoon and others. 


(56) No. 24094E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 832, Plot No. 868, 
Area -44, Ownor-—Shri Delbar Mondal. 


(67) No. 24096E.P.A., dated 26th May 19585. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, .ا‎ No. 9, Khatian No. 1838, Plot No, 858, 
Area, -46, Owner—Shri Delbor Mondal. 


(58) No. 24098H.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza, 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 266, Plot No. 629, 
ove -11, Owners—Shri Din Mohamad Mondal and 
others. 


(59) No. 24100E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1941, Plot No. 646, 
Area ۰27, Owner—Shri Delbor Mondal. 


(60) No. 24102E.P.A., duted 26th May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Nuihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. ہآ‎ No. 9, Khatian No. 21, Plot No. 2438, 
Area 21) Owner—Shri Pratap Mondal. 


(61) No. 24104E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-stat;on Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. 9, Khatian No. 1069, Plot No. 862, 
Area ‘75, Owner—Shri Benode Shek. 


(62) No. 24106E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1770, Plot No. 160, 
Area -43, Owner—Shri Juran Shek. 


(63) No. 24108E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1023, Plot No. 93, 
Area -47, Owners—Shri Darbari Shek and others. 


(64) No. 24110E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mausa 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 44, Plot No. 103, 
Area 19ء‎ Owners—Shri Ekaruddin Shek and others, 


(65) No. 24112 E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1359, Plot No. 81, 
Area ,30ء۱‎ Owner—Shri Montaz Ali Shek. 


(66) No. 24114E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1715, Plot No. 2428, 
Area ‘19, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal and others. 


(67) No. 24116E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1089, Plot No. 2343, 
Area ۰20, Owner—Shri Benod Shek. 


(68) No. 24118H.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1044, Plot No. 
696, Area -27, Owners—-Shri Ekraddin Mondal and 
othors. 


(69) No. 24120E.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1667, Plot No. 2552, 
Area -14, Owners—Shrimati Panchi Bibi and others. 


(70) No. 24122H.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. 14. No. 9, Khatian No. 266, Plot No. 135, 
Aroa 20, Owner—Shri Ekaraddin Mondal. 


(71) No. 24124B.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Pargnnas, Police-station Naihati, (۶ 
Mamudpur, J. 04. No. 9, Khatian No. 1823, Plot No, 177, 
Area -21, Owner—Shrimati Rajabibi, 


3218 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


(72) No. 24126E..P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1042, Plot No. 2582, 
Area -68, Owner—Shri Ibrahim Mondal. 


(73) No. 24128E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1888, Plot No. 86০, 
Area ۰35, Owner—Shrimati Alakjan Bibi. 


(74) No. 24130 P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, ۶ 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 832, Plot No. 866, 
Area -29, Owner—Shrimati Nurjan Bibi. 


(75) No. 24132E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1617, Plot No. 611, 
Area ‘69, Owners—Shri Delbar Mondal and others. 


(76) No. 24134E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


Distirict 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1352, Plot No. 142, 
Area :30, Owners—Shri Darbari Shek and others. 


(77) No. 24136E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1273, Plot No. 138, 
Area ۰28, Owner—Shri Shahebjan Shek. 


(78) No. 24138E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza, 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 79, Plot No. 121, 
Area ۰17, Owner-—Shri Shahebjan Shek. 


(70) No. 24140E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 74, Plot No. 121, 
Area :18, Owner-—-Shri Bhiku Shek. 


(80) No. 24142E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1990, Plot No. 2443, 
Area :34, Owners—Shri Aneshuddin Shek. 


(81) No. 24144E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


istrict 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 576, Plot No. 944, 
Area -43, Owners—Rusthum Laskar and others. 


(82) No. 24146.E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 858, Plot No. 595, 
Aroa ۰50, Owners—Shri Rusthum Laskar and others. 


(83) No. 24148K.P.A., dated 26th May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 858, Plot No. 292, 
Area ۰30, Owners—Shri Pachi Bibi ond others. 


(84) No. 24150E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


Districs 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 568, Plot No. 86, 
Area -40, Owner .ص8‎ Gual Bahar Bibi. 


(85) No. 24152K.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1921, Plot No. 261, 
Area -49, Owner—Shri Gobardhan Mondal. 


[Part ] 
০০০০১১১১১১১ 


(86) No. 24154E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauga 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 435, Plot No. 60, 
Area ۰53, Ownera—Shri Panchi Bibi and others. 


(87) No. 24156E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur, J. .L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1920, Plot No. 255, 
Area ۰84, Owner—Shri Golbahar Bibi. 


(88) No. 24158E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-stetion Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 2050, Plot No. 47, 
Area -46, Owners—Shri Miajan Laskar and others. 


(89) No. 24160E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Purganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1818, Plot No. 62, 
Area -28, Owners—Shri Pachi Bibi and others. 


(90) No. 24162E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1672, Plot No. 43, 
Area 10) Owners—Shri Rustun Laskar and others. 


(91) No. 24164E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 755, Plot No. 505, 
Area 53, Owners—Shri Rusthum Laskar and others. 


(92) No. 24166E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 7, Khatian No. 1818, Plot No. 2319, 
Area "40, Owners—Shrimati Pachi Bibi and others. 


(93) No. 24168E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1471, Plot No. 2557, 
Area ۰31, Owner—Shri Ebrahim Mondal. 


(94) No. 24170E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 716, Plot No. 2419, 
Area, ۰28, Owners—Shri Felu Mondal and others. 


(95) No. 24172E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1818, Plot-No. 2320, 
Area -49, Owners-—-Shri Rustum Mondal and others. 


(96) No. 24174E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauzs 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1059, Plot No. 272, 
Aroa ۰36, Owner—-Shri Sardar Mondal. 


(97) No. 24176E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1811, Plot No. 153, 
Area 35, Owner—Shri Sahebjan Sk. 


(98) No. 24178E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Maura 
Mamudpur,, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 1298, Plot No. 618, 
Area, +17, Ownor—Shrimati Golbahar Bibi. 


(09) No. 24180E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, ۶ 
Mamudpur, J. 1. No. 9, Khatian No. 1811, Plot No. 157, 
Area ۰37, Owner—Shrimati Golbahar Bibi. 


Part I] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 3219 


পপ ০০৯৯৬ সপ্প 


(100) No. 24182E.P.A., dated 26th May 1955. * 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Naihati, Mauza 
Mamudpur, J. L. No. 9, Khatian No. 7, Plot No. 1316, 
Area 31) Owners --Shri Hamja Sk. and others. 


(101) No. 24184E.P.A., dated 318: May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1286, Plot 
No. 4231, Area 48, Owner—Shri Moslem Mondal. 


(192) No. 24186K.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-stution Dum Dum, 
Mauva Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1286, 
Plot No. 4232 Arew -53, Owner—Shri Habibar Mondal. 


(103) No. 24188E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1292, Plot No. 
4293, Area "10১ Owner—Shrimati Abaran banu Bibi. 


(104) No. 24190E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khutian No. 631, Plot No. 
4478, Area -14, Owner—Shri Latafat Mondal. 


(105) No. 24192E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Pargunas, Police-station Dum Dum, 8 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 533, Plot 
No. 4489, Area ۰14, Owner—Shri Tofel Mondal. 


(106) No. 24144E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mausza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 553, 
Plot No. 4499, Area 09, Owner—Shri Nurul Huda 
Mondal. 


(107) No. 24196E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1082, 
Plot No. 4476, Area -16, Owner Shri Hamidal Mondal. 


(108) No. 24198E.P.A.., dated 2186 May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas,Police-station Dum Dum, Maura 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 618, Plot No. 
4500, Area 11) Owner—Shri Rabbani Mondal. 


(109) No. 24200E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Maura 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 416, Plot No. 
4731, Area -30, Owner——Shri Latibali Mondal. 


(110) No. 24202E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 599, 
Plot No. 4812, Area +20, Owner—Shri Alimaddin 
Mondal. 


(111) No, 24204E.P.A., dated 318৮ May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Polico-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian Ne. 607, 
a No. 4238, Area -34, Owner—Shrimati Chhakina 

31. 


(112) No. 24206E.P.A., dated 3ist May 1955۰ 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mama, Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No.8, Khatian No. 825, 

let No. 4239, Ares -35, Owner--Shri Habibar Rahua- 
Man Mondal. 


(113) No. 24208K.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 659, 
Plot No. 4242, Area ۰28, Ownor—Shri Habibar Raha- 
man Mondal. 


(114) No. 24210E.P.A., dated 319 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 817, 
Plot No. 4213, Area -19, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(115) No. 24212E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District S4-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 616, 
Plot No. 4268, Area -109, Owner—Shri Rabbani 
Mondal. 


(116) No. 24398K.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 420, 
Plot No. 4736, Area ۰23, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(117) No. 24400E.P.A., dated 318: May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 661, 
Plot No. 4751, Area ہ۰59‎ Owners—Shri Elahi Box 
Mondal and others. 


(118) No. 24402E.P.A., dated 3180 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 209, 
Plot No. 4781, Area -07, Owner—Shri Latib Mondal, 


(119) No. 24404E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 250, 
Plot No. 5373, Area 1-76, Owners—Shri Sakoo Gazi, 
and 8۰ 


(120) No. 24406E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 786. 
Plot No. 3662, Area -14, Owner—Shri Akkas Mondal. 
(121) No. 24408E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 
District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatiin No. 696, 
Plot No. 4207, Area -08, Owner—Shri Sakat Mondal. 
(122) No. 24410E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 
District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1283, 
Plot No. 4567, Area -37, Owner—Shri Eluhi Box 
Mondal. 
(123) No. 24412E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8. 


Khatian No. Plot. No. Area. 
574 9491 * (08 
1172 ‘03 


OwnerS—hri Bishu Mondal. 


83১30 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 
(124) No. 24414K.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8. 


Khatian No. Plot No. 0ھ‎ 
489 9490 ٠۰4 
1173 06 


Owner—Shri Kasimuddin Mondal. 


(125) No. 24416E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 862, 
Plot No. 65268, Area ۰90 Owner—Shri Kalimaddin 
Mondal. 


(126) No. 24418E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Polico-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 420, 
Plot No. 4782, Area ۰09, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(127) No. 24420E.P.A., dated 9196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1370, 
Plot No. 4574, Area ۰70, Owner-—Shri Jitu Katal. 


(128) No. 24492E.P.A., dated 9156 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station® Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 622, 
Plot No. 5312, Area -35, Owners—Shri Rashed Mondal, 
and others. 


(129) No. 24424E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 930, 
Plot No. 4302, Area -15, Ownor—Shri Habibar Raha- 
man Mondal. 


(130) No. 24426E.P.A4., dated 3lst-May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1289, 
Plot No. 3645, Area ۰52, Owner—Shri Habu Mondal. 


(191) No. 24428E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Jum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 753/1, Plot No. 4314, 
Area ۰13, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(182) No. 24430E.P.A., dated 2186 May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 889, 
Plot No. 3650, Area ۰40, Owner—Shri Asmat Mondal. 


(133) No. 24432E.P.A., dated 318৮ May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 207, 
Plot No. 4055, Area -60, Owner-——Shri Khosal Mondal. 


(134) No. 24434E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 195, 
Plot No. 4037, Area ۰36, Owner—Shri Asmat Mondal. 


(135) No. 24436K.P.A., dated 2186 May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas. Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1485, 
Plot No, 4039, Area -26, Owner -Shri Sayedali Mondal. 


۸۲118 6 (Parr I 


4 


۴ 
পপ পপর এস হি MENT اس ساسا مل مم‎ 
উস তাস 


টি 
কস ৯, পিউ 


(136) No. 24438E.P.A., dated 3188 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Polico-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1467, 
Plot No. 4066, Area -50, Owner—Shri Fakir Chand 
Mondal. 


(137) No. 24440E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1467, 
Plot No. 4067, Area ۰174 Owner—Shri Fakir Chand 
Mondal. 


(138) No. 24442E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 780, 
Plot No. 3638, Area +40, Owner—Shri Rahimuddin 
Mondal. 


(139) No. 24444E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1288, 
Plot No. 3647, Area -29, Owner—Shri Ashim Mondal. 


(140) No. 24446E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 798, 
Plot No. 4211, Area -54, Owner—Shri Soleman Mondal, 


(141) No. 24448E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 779, 
Plot No. 5317, Area -03, Owner—Shri Hadu Shiekh. 


(142) No, 24450K.P.A., dated 3181 May 1055. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 18, 
Plot No. 3628, Area ۰22, Owner—Shri Samed Gazi. 


(143) No. 24452K.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 853, 
Plot No. 3873, Area -15, Owner—Shri Hadek Mondal. 


(144) No, 24454E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 793, 
Plot No. 3568, Area -32, Owner—Shri Fakir Chand 
Mondal. 


ہس 


(146) No. 24456E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District, 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 398, 
Plot No. 3872, Area -19, Owner—Shri Anisaddin 
Mondal. 


(146) No. 24458E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Puolice-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 694, 
Plot No. 3874, Area ۰90, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(147) No. 24460E.P.A., dated 3lat May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 616, 
Plot No. 3875, Arew ۰45, Owner —Shri Rabbani Mondal. 


(148) No. 24462E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Manz Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1384, 
Plot. No. 3841, Area -14, Owner—Shri Habibar Rahe- 
man Mondal, 


Part I] 


(149) No. 24464E.P.A., dated 218 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 28, 
Plot No. 4561, Area -22, Owner—Shri Subadar Mondal. 


(150) No. 24466E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 99, 
Plot No, 4562, Area +22, Owner—Shri Enayet Ali 
Mondal. 


(151) No. 24468E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 580, 
Plot No. 5451, Area -11, Owner—Shri Abedali Mondal. 


(152) No. 24470E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 780, 
Plot No. 3592, Area -26, Owner—Shri Rabijaddin 
Mondal. 

a 
(153) No. 24472E.P.A., dated 318 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 511, 
Plot No. 5457, Area ۰53, Owner—Shri Saku Gazi. 


(154) No. 24474E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 43, 
Plot No. 3619, Area -28, Owner—Shri Baseruddin 
Mondal. 


(155) No. 24476E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No.i694, 
Plot No. 3609, Area -15, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondal. 


(166) No. 24478E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 109, 
Plot No. 3844, Area -49, Owner—Shri Latib Mondal. 


(157) No. 24480E.P.A., datedi3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station® Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 157, 
Plot No. 3843, Area ۰47, Owner—Shri Habibar Raha- 
man Mondal. 


(158) No, 24482E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station™ Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 898, 
Plot No. 3871, Area ۰90 Owner—Shri Mather Box 
Mondal. 


(159) No. 24484E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum~ Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No.§857, 
Plot No. 4529, Area -17, Owner—Shri Golam Rahaman 

ondal. 


(160) No. 24486E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Auza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1505, 
Plot No, 4273, Aroa +29, Owner—Shri Easin Mondal. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 9221 


(161) No. 24488E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Polioe-station Dum Dum; 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 690, 


Plot No. 4272, Area ‘38, Owner—Shri Habibar Raha- 
man Mondal. . 


(162) No. 24490E:P.A., dated 2181 May 1965. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 798, 
Plot No. 4211, Area ‘54, Owner—Shri Soloman Mondal. 


(163) No. 24492E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 753/1° 
Plot No. 4312, Area - 15, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondo] 


(164) No. 24494E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum D 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1404" 
Plot No. 4185, Area ۰:39, Owner—Shri Montaz Hazra. 


(165) No. 24496E.P.A., dated 818৮ May 1958, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area, 


889 4184 * 24 
889 4166 ° 25 
Owner—Shri Asmad Mondol. 


(166) No. 24498E.P.A., dated 31st May 19655. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 533, 
Plot No. 4190, Area - 10, Owner—Shri Enayet Mondol. 


(167) No. 24500E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 6285, 
Plot No. 4188, Area ۰25, Owner—Shri Latafat Mondal. 


(168) No. 24502E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No, 824, 
Plot No. 4912, Area +41, Owner—Shri Miajaddin 
Mondol. 


(169) No. 24504E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 625, 
Plot No. 4172, Area ۰34, Owner—Shri Latafat Mondol. 


(170) No, 24506E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1289, 
Plot No. 3645, Area ۰32, Owner—Shri Habu Mondol, 


3222 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


(171) No. 24508E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1346, 
Plot No. 4310, Areca -18, Owner—Shri Sakoat Mondol. 


(172) No, 24510E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 781, 
Plot No. 4316, Area ۰28, Owner—Shri Niajaddin 
Mondol. 


(173) No. 24512E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 313, 
Plot No. 4313, Area -16, Owner-—Shri Hamidal Mondal. 


(174) No. 24514E.P.A., dated 318: May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 847, 
Plot No. 4671, Area -14, Owner—Shri Habibor 
Rahaman. 


(175) No. 24516E.P.A., dated 3lst May-1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1402, 
Plot No. 4661, Area ۰14 Owner—Shri Rustam Mondal. 


(176) No. 24518E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 374, 
Plot No. 4660, Area -51, Owner—Shri Sayedali Mondol. 


uw”. 


(177) No. 24520E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 844, 
Plot No. 4460, Area -16, Owner—Shri Kalu Mondol. 


(178) No. 24522E.P.A., dated 3let May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 848, 
Plot No. 4459, Area -09, Owner—Shri Saburali Mondol. 


(179) No. 24524E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1332; 
Plot No. 4658, Area 1-01, Owner—Shri Latafat Mondal. 


(180) No, 24526E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum’ Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 686, 
Plot No. 4883, Area :04, Owner—Shri Aharaddin 
Mondal. 


(181) No. 24528E.P.A:, dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1451, 
টান ۲ 4783, Area +14, Owner—Shri Miajaddin 

08808], 


[Parr 1 


১ পাঞ্জা 


(182) No. 24530E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 818, 
Plot No. 4548, Area -16, Owner—Shri Ajit Mondal. 


(183) No, 24532E.P.A., dated 8186 May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 818, 
Plot No. 4547, Area +15, Owner—Shri Haran Mondal. 


(184) No. 24534E.P.A., dated 3156 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1119, 
Plot No. 9316, Area ۰11, Owner—Shri Panchu Kathal 


(185) No. 24536E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 49, 
Plot No. 9446, Area ۰63, Owners—Shri Rashed Monda] 
and others. 


(186) No. 24538E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 51, 
eae 9448, Area -26, Owner—Shri Sadaraddin 

ondal. 


(187) No. 24540E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 734, 
Plot No. 4754, Area -27, Owner—Shri Kashimaddin 
Mondal. 


(188) No. 24542E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1956. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian ‘No. 852, 
Plot No. 5268, Area ۰90 Owner—Shri Kalimaddin 
Mondal. 


(189) No. 24544E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No, 978, 
Plot No. 9379, Area -33, Owner—Shri Amir Ali Sha 
Fakir. 


(190) No. 24546E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1378/1, 
Plot No. 9458, Area 64) Owner—Shri Taser Kathal. 


(191) No. 24548E.P.A., dated 3186 May 19565. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 282, 
Plot No. 9540, Area 20, Owner—Shri Majat Mondal. 


Parr T] 


স্তরের 


(192) No. 24550E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1368, 
Plot No. 9542, Area -59, Owner—Shri Hajor Mondal. 


(193) No. 24552E.P.A., dated 8155 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1371, 
Plot No. 9539, Area ۰28, Owner—Shri Taserali Mondal. 


(194) No. 24554E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, Mauza 
Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8. 


Khatian No. Plot No. Area. 
600 4177 رھ‎ 
781 4178 0ء‎ 
‘Owner—Shri Rahimaddin Mandal. 


(195) No. 24556E.P.A., dated 3196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 616, 
Plot No. 4295, Area ہ۰56‎ Owner—Shri Rabbani Mandal. 


(196) No. 24558E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 46, 
Plot No. 4261, Area ۰62, Owner—Srimati Abrunbanu 
Bibi. 


(197) No. 24560E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1461, 
Plot No. 4825, Ownor-—Shri Kalu Mandal. 


(198) No, 24562E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 924, 
Plot No. 4811, Area ۰32, Owner—Shri Budai Mandal. 


(199) No. 24564E.P.A., dated 3lat May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 473, 
Plot No. 4281, Area -18, Owner—Shri Ebadal Mandal. 


(200) No. 24566E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dokhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 475, 
Plot No. 4620, Area ۰28, Owner—Shri Elahi Box Mondal, 


(201) No. 24568E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
uza Dakhin Nimta, J. lL. No. 8, Khatian No. 1351, 

8 417], Area ‘07, Owner—Shri Habibar Rahaman 
andal. 3 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 6 7229 


(202) No. 24570E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Sultanpur, J. L. No. 10, Khatian No. 747, 
Plot No. 3220, Area 1:38, Owners—Shri Akkarali 
Mandal and others. 


(203) No. 24572E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955, 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 6, 
Plot No. 4192, Area ۰04, Owner—Shri Fazlu Mandal. 


(204) No. 24574E.P.A., dated 31st May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 598, 
و مت‎ 4236, Area ۰04, Owner—Shri Rahimuddin 

ndal. ‘ 


(205) No. 24576E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 694, 
Plot No. 3874, Area ۰90 Owner—Shri Sakoat Mandal. 


(206) No, 24578E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 966, 
ta ت7‎ 5322, Area ۰07, Owner—Shri Aminuddin 

andal. 


(207) No. 24580E.P.A., dated 8186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 783, 
tide No. 3887, Area ۰۱6 Owner—Shri Ratubuddin 

dal. 


(208) No. 24582E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1103, 
Plot No. 3713, Area -21, Owner—Shri Abdul Latif 
Mandal. 


(209) No. 24584E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 522, 
Plot No. 4516, Area -48, Owner—Shri Saidali Mandal. 


(210) No. 24586E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 374, 
Plot No. 4515, Area ۰15, Owner—Shri Saidali Mandal. 


(211) No. 24588E.P.A., dated 318 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 974, 
Plot No. 4512, Area +15, Owner—Shri Hafijaddin 
Mandal. ۰ 


(212) No. 24590E.P.A., dated 2156 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 658, 
Plot No. 4485, Area ۰30, Owner—Shri Tafel Mandal. 


8924 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


(213) No. 24592E.P.A., dated 9186 118 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 553, 
Plot No. 4477, Area ۰15, Owner—Shri Nurul Huda 
Mandal. 


(214) No, 24594E.P.A., dated 3186 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1082, 
Plot No. 4476, Area ۰16, Owner—Shri Hamidul Mandal. 


(215) No, 24506E.P.A., dated 3lst May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dum, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 1082, 
Plot No. 4474, Area 12) Owner—Shri Hamidul Mandal. 


[Parr 1 


(216) No. 24598E.P.A., dated 9196 May 1955. 


District 24-Parganas, Police-station Dum Dun, 
Mauza Dakhin Nimta, J. L. No. 8, Khatian No. 232, 
Hale 4473, Area 102) Owner—Shri Rahimaddin 

ndal. 


By order of the Evacuees Property 
Management Committee for 
West Bengal, 


J, N. MOOKHERJEE, 


Secretary to the Committee. 


part I] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 6 3295 


نے ہے POORER +.. কনর স্টপ‏ ہے مد چے مت 
শন -‏ 


DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 6992/2A-23/50.—9th August 1956.—In exercise of the power con- 
ferred by section 35 of the West Bengal Development Corporation Act, 1954 
(West Bengal Act X1V of 1955), the Governor is pleased to make the follow- 
ing rules, namely :— 


Rules, 


1. These rules may be called the West Bengal Development Corporation 
Rules, 1956. 


2. In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or 
context ,— ' 


(a) ‘‘the Act’? means the West Bengal Development Corporation Act, 
1954 (West Bengal Act XIV of 1955); 


(b) ‘‘section’’ means a section of the Act; 


(c) other expressions used in these rules but not specifically defined have 
the same meanings as in the Act. 


8. The Corporation shall include: 


(i) aah members representing the State Government to be nominated 
y ut; 


(11) one member being a shareholder, representing the shareholders, to 
be elected in the manner provided in rule 4 whenever the Cor- 
poration is constituted or reconstituted after the issue of shares. 


4. (1) The manner of election of a shareholder to represent the share- 
holders shall be by postal ballot. 


(2) The Chairman of the Corporation shall act as the Returning Officer. 
He shall invite, when so directed by the State Government, nominations, 
within such date as may be specified by him, of candidates from the share- 
holders in writing and each candidate must he proposed by a shareholder 
and seconded by another shareholder. He shall then make out a list of 
validly nominated candidates. 


(3) The Chairman shall thereafter send by registered post to each share- 
holder a list of validly nominated candidates and a postal ballot paper as 
nearly as possible in the form given in Schedule I to these rules and shall 
enter on the counterfoil of each such ballot paper the name of the share- 
holder and his serial number on the register of shareholders, 


(4) Each shareholder shall have as many votes as the number of shares 
owned by him. 


(5) A shareholder shall, on receiving his ballot paper, record his vote 
or votes thereon in favour of the candidate of his choice among those speci- 
fied in the list of nominated candidates and shall sign the declaration on the 
back of the ballot paper. The elector shall obtain the attestation of his 
signature but not of his vote on the postal ballot paper by a-Gazetted Officer 
of the State Government. He shall then send his ballot paper by registered 
post to the Chairman. 


8226 THE CAIXUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 [Panr I 


ere 1 Sra | 


(6) 11106 Chairman shall then count the votes and prepare a list showing 
the votes obtained by each of the candidates and declare the candidate who 
has obtained the largest number of votes to be elected and a shareholder so 
elected shall be a member of the Corporation on its constitution or reconstitu- 
tion after such election. 


®. The term of office of the members of the Corporation, including the 
Chairman, shal] be four years. 


6. (1) In the event of a casual vacancy among the members of the Cor- 
poration on account of resignation, removal or death, it shall be filled by 
nomination hy the State Government, provided that the person to be nomi- 
nated in place of the representative of the shareholders shall be the share- 
holder who may be available from amongst those who stood for election 
and who obtained the next largest number of votes. 


(2) A person nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall hold office for the 
unexpired portion of the term of the member in whose place he is 90 
nominated. 


7. (1) The members of the Corporation other than the Chairman shall 
be entitled to receive a fee of Rs. 100 each for attending every sitting of the 
Corporation : 


Provided that when a member of the Corporation is a salaried officer 
of Government he shall not be entitled to the said fee. 


(2) The members of the Corporation other than those who are salaried 
Government officers shall be entitled to travelling allowances for journeys 
made by them in the course of their duty as such members at the same 
rates as are admissible to Government officers of the First Class drawing a 
salary of over two thousand five hundred rupees per month. 


8. The Administrative Officer and the Chief Accounts Officer of the 
Morporation shall he Government officers whose services may be placed at 
the disposal of the Corporation by the State Government on such terms as 
to period of deputation, pay, allowances and leave and pension contributions 
as may be agreed upon between the State Government and the Corporation. 
These officers shall, in respect of disciplinary matters, continue to be under 
the control of the State Government. 


9: (1) The capital which the Corporation may be authorised to raise 
from time to time under sub-section (2) of section 19 or the additional 
capital which may be raised by the Corporation under section 20 shall he 
divided into shares of Rs. 100 each. 


(2) The Corporation shall not allot shares exceeding Rs. 50,000 in 
value to any one party other than the State Government, 


(3) Payment of the shares shall be made: 
(1) 1n cash or assets in the case of the State Government, and 
(৫1) in cash. or bonds issued by the State Government, in the case of 


any other party, such bonds being redeemable by the State 
Government. 


(4) The sharesof the Corporation shall not he transferred to any party 
other than the State Government or a party approved by the Government. 


part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3227 


Pa 


(5) The Corporation shall maintain a register of shareholders and shall 
enter therein the following particulars separately in respect of each issu 
of shares: — | 


(a) the name of the shareholder and the number, value 00 serial 
numbers of the shares held by him, 


(b) the postal address of the shareholder and the address of his prin- 
cipal place of business, 


(c) the date on which and the manner in which he acquired his shares, 


(d) the date on which he ceases to be a shareholder and the reasons 
therefor. 


10. The net profits of the Corporation shall be utilised: 


(i) in paying the interest and repaying the principal of the money 
borrowed under section 22: 


(11) in building up a fund for the redemption of shares (to be called 
the Share Redemption Fund) where so directed by the State 
Government; 


(iii) in building up the reserve fund; and 


(iv) in carrying out any other purpose of the Act. 


11, (1) No redemption of share shall be resorted to if the amount to 
the credit of the share redemption fund referred to in clause (11) of rule 10 
ia less than five lakhs of rupees. 


(2) In redeeming the shares issued to parties other than the State 
(Jovernment ; 


(a) the shares issued earlier shall be preferred to those issued later, 


(b) ia 0 ۶ of the shares with guaranteed dividend stil] due shall 
e paid. 


12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be from the Ist of 
April to the 8181۲ of March next following. ” 


(2) Annual Budget Statements shall be submitted by the Corporation to 
the State Government on or before the fifteenth day of November in each 
year as nearly as possible in the form given in Schedule II to these rules. 


(9) The Corporation may without the previous sanction of the State 
Government incur expenditure under any head or in connection with any 
particular scheme in excess of the budget allotments only up to a limit of 
twenty-five thousand rupees for recurring expenditure and one lakh of 
rupees for non-recurring expenditure in a financial year. The Corporation 
shall, however, report to the State Government the circumstances under 
which it has become necessary to incur such expenditure. 


۳ If in respect of any financial year, expenditure ovér and above the 
total amount provided for in the budget estimates becomes necessary or 18 
incurred in terms of sub-rule (3), a supplementary estimate shall be pre- 
pared by the Corporation and submitted to the State Government by the 
first day of January in the same manner as the annual budget, 


3228 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 238, 1956 [Part] 


13. The number of membexs necessary to constitute a quorum at a 
meeting of the Corporation shall be three, of whom at least one shall be a 
representative of the State Government, 


14. (1) The Corporation shall keep such books of account as the State 
Government may determine in consultation with the Corporation. 


2 All account books and registers shall be bound and all the pages there- 
of shall be numbered before being brought into use and all corrections and 
alterations in the accounts shall be made in ink and duly attested by a person 
authorised in this behalf by the Chief Accounts Officer. 


15. (1) The annual accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by an 
auditor appointed by the State Government as soon as may be after the close 
of each financial year. 


(2) The auditor shall see, while examining the accounts of the Corpora- 
tion ,— | 


(i) whether the books of account required to he kept under sub-rule (1) 
of rule 14 have been duly kept and whether the books of account 
and registers conform to the provisions of sub-rule (2) of rule 14; 


(21) 7 the items of receipt and expenditure are stated in sufficient 
6৮৪1] ; 


(iii) whether the payments were made under proper authority and are 
supported by vouchers; and 


(iv) whether all sums received have been brought into account. 


(3) The auditor may require the production of any document or the 
attendance before him of any person responsible for the preparation of the 
accounts of the Corporation, to enable him to obtain information for the 
proper conduct of audit. 


16. The Corporation shall furnish the State Government with— 


(a) an annual balance-sheet of the assets and liabilities of the Corpora- 
tion as on the 3lst March of every year; 


(b) statements of the grants made by the Corporation to the Boards from 
time to time for executing the schemes entrusted to the Boards 
under section 24; 


(c) such periodical reports as the State Government may direct showing 
the progress of development schemes, undertaken by the Corpora- 
tion; and 


(dy a report of the proceeding of each meeting of the Corporation as soon 
as possible after the meeting. 


part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 3229 
০০০০০ ৯৯১১৩ nn aL HPA OP SETS SE Te TS I POTS PIT AST وسر جر وج یھ ربج ےجو‎ এ 
COUNTERFOIL. 


SCHEDULE ॥ 
FORM OF BALLOT PAPER 
West Bengal Development Corporation 
Election of shareholder for membership of the Corporation 
arin: 0ہ :6ہ‎ PRCT OL امہ مس سح مس سی کک سن ےمج حم‎ 
3۶6ا‎ OF میں و جرہو بیو مصسوو ہی ئلازآاملہ‎ ex ومروووواٹوٗمہوس‎ ion nena oa وس ناو و‎ 


Serial No. of elector on the register of shareholders.............scccssesccecsvscceesseseccncs 


West Bengal Development Corporation. 
Election of shareholder for membership of the Corporation 


میں 19:7 


(Not to be torn off by the elector.) 


(Paste gummed surface here.) 


Names of candidates. Vote. 
(1) (2) 


Fold on the lines A—B 
Gummed surface.....cccccceees 0 


3230 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 7٦ 
bd 


Serial No. of ballot paper 


[ hereby declare that I am the person whose name appears as elector No............6.. 


on the list of shareholders of the West Bengal Development Corporation. 


Signature of the elector............0008. রন 

চা ere erie sence rer ee 01558727725 arr میسو سب‎ 
Signed in my presence 105.,.০১*১০০০১০০০০০৯০৭০০৯০৪০৪০৪৮০৪ صصسو "وو"‎ 07 who is 
personally known to me (or who has been identified to my satisfaction by........ নন 


Name. রিনা 
Signature of Attesting Officer 
Address ১৪৪৪৬ ১৪৩৪৪৪৬৪৪9৬ $৬69$৪৬৪৪৭৬% ee 
রি 11871005007,,, .ٌتسیٌی‎ 727 
۸007688 سب‎ ৪৪:৬৬ ৪৮৪৪5৪44৮48 موم‎ হত رورس‎ 


Instructions. 
(1) The number of candidates for whom the elector may vote is one. 
(2) Each elector may give as many votes as the number of shares owned by him. 
(3) Votes shall be given by recording a numeral (viz., I, 2, 3, etc.) on the ballot 
paper (in column 2) opposite the name of the candidate for whom the elector 


wishes to vote. The numeral will indicate the number of votes given. 


(4) An elector shall obtain the attestation of his signature on this form by a Gazetted 
Officer of the State Government. ; 


(5) The attesting Officer shall attest the signature of an elector but not his vote 
which should not be recorded in the presence of the attesting Officer. _ 


3231 


THE CAINHUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


Part T] 


"reo 
qxou oj} 4০) 
97৪05799995 [oyeUAr}Bo ০০৪০ 


17০4, 00540 


301:000 وز9وو 


৪107999এ [BIO], 


৪107০944970 IA 

87092575945 UO YSOIO}UT “A 

** 87090079947 76 specoold-ef’g “AT 

50৪০ ‘TIT 

dn pred puw penser sareqg ۲ 

9%৪$9 0g} Aq couwape fede) "দু‏ ]۸ت0 


টিটি a 


‘rea Surpecoid 
eq} Jo ۴7ء‎ "87019০9এ Jo speeyy 


“ree 20:99 
ey} 4০] 97927199০7০ 


[(2)21 oy) 


04 98 


8 89 


[Parr ] 


THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 28, 1956 


3232 


*SHIBUIOI 
Axsoysuredxy 


“read 
4x0U ou} 10} 
ا ئا نت پر سرت‎ 


2০9 | +00999০45০ 


Aq ও? Aq‏ جمد۔- 


pesoiddy poesodeig | ‘reoXk BZutpooeid 


‘reed 4uaLIMoO 
eq} ০0 کہ‎ 058799 Jospng 


"090 4৪০০ 4৯০০০৪০777০, 


AUS JI 19990940171 0 
99704১০0779 7301:1069 
০9০ 4899০0০4১০0] “IT 


)000151]19990 yo Aud رنہ(‎ 
"৯. 20900৮17199 ০0059], 
91158 ۴ہ‎ 
80 


097191119020 jo کے8‎ "ছা 


৪4০০০ مر‎ 49 1৪1০], 


Aue টা 0جموتد“ک‎ 4০৭0 
০০৫) 8000007 1900 
190000 CAIPBISIUIUpYy 

94০০০ jo এগ"? 


"৪4071009029 jo 809০7 


3233 


Pant 1] 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


[70505 yaZpng oye مہم وہ‎ 


eq ہہ‎ ৭9979 oyeredes دجوم 00 ٭‎ yeNplArpul yYows jo yoodser ہہ‎ Ajozeredes UMOYs 9৭. 07৮০9 6080008 ONUSAAI pus (1480 uo 4ue13 og | —g ‘NW } 


লে 


চু, 
৬১০০১০৬০০৩০ 


ঢ799 ye8png | 950৯০ ০9৪7০) |‏ دوہ 


‘reoA 19029 
مہہ‎ Joy 979৪০ 99০ 


"8১9০৪ وہ‎ 810০831019০, 


1798 40. 
موحدوت‎ ٥ 
0 2 OT} OF 0901 ৪4০০0 ۹ 
0م0۸-‎ JO 00102000 102003 00৩ ০৪০] “TTA 


puny FUOpLAcig OF ب00‎ 77000 [SO] 


চাদ ہی سس‎ Jo 20150071000 ‘LA 
دہ‎ 95 [05900 “A 


80011070110100 [840], 


6:7۴ (৫) 
“Ho “৪০০7০ ‘emyrumy (5) 
9002 pus 2ہوہ٠7تٰ‎ (f) 
- Azetoyeyg (9) 
seBreqo یسا‎ pues کےمدووقئدہ‎ (29) 
৪০9 973০০] (9) 
; د8 دائەہ‎ 9919, (9) 
৪3900 JO ৪০০গ (DY 
--891209807700) 7 


‘emmjipued xe jo 97৪] 


[Parr ] 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


3234 


999 ہے“‎ ع۷٣‎ “H 
“ZOUIBAOL) OY} Jo 3974০ Ag 


THIOL 10054) 


کو TEE)‏ 
سسدہ ۰ے 

"সু‏ 00007ء7 ٠ - ٠.‏ کچھ 

ِ Hs 7 oe 9980০ Mey ‘SITY 

۲ oe ৪6409 مر‎ uorndmoepey “TTX 

٠ ৪3০ so 9090250০ جب‎ 

৮ **. دیزی این نر در‎ "তত 

7 ٠ ০ seo کپ ںو‎ “XT 


; | 
4 
۶ 


و 


٦۷‏ سی 


زم وہہ ممعتمصو | رہد }04 “SYFEUIOS qxeu‏ 


۲02و “এট‏ 
و صوقھو 9$৪057789‏ }10 ج9 


pant ا‎ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE ATGUST 23, 1956 3235 
০০০১-০১-০৩ সপ Se سی جست یجس .سز نے یدوچ 7ا‎ 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT. 


ORDER 


No. 3440Dis./D/110-443/65.—6th August 1996.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 20)is./D/111- 
443/65, duted the Gth January 1966, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
١ز رام‎ Goldwyn Mayer India, Titd., Metro House, 5 Chowringhee Road, 
Ulalcutta-138, and their employees represented by the Metro Goldwyn Mayer 
Employees’ Union, 6 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-13, regarding the matters 
specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Sixth 
Industrial Trmbunal ; 


And whereas the said Sixth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
২1866 Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the mattor of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Metro 
Coldwyn Mayer India, Ltd., Metro House, 5 Chowringhee Road, 
Calcutta-13, and their employees represented by the Metro Coldwyn 
Mayer Employees’ Union, 5 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-13 (case 
No. ۷۱۱۱---15 of 1956), 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA. 


PRESENT : 
Suri SATLESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sucth Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances: 


For Messrs. Metro Goldwyn Mayer Indta, Ltd: Shri ১. K. Mullick থে) of 


Messrs. Sandersons and Morgans, Solicitors. 


Kor Metro Goldwyn Mayer Employees’ Union: Shri 9. K. Acharyya, Bar.- 
at-luw, assisted by Shri Suprobhat Mukherjee. 


Demand for bonus for the year 1953-54 submitted by the employees of 
Messrs. Metro Goldwyn Mayer India, Ltd., gave rise to this reference made 
by the Government of West Bengal by order No. 20Dis. /D /111.-443/55, dated 
Calcutta, the 6th January 1956. 


The issue referred for adjudication is as follows:— 


Are the employees entitled to any bonus for the financial year 1953-54? 
if so, what? 


The case of the Union as set forth in the written statement is that the 
employees were receiving bonus every year and were thus entitled to have 
the same in customary right. In the year under reference the Company did 
not make any payment as the election of Professor Nirmal Bhattacherjee as 
President and that of Srijut Nartpada Chatterjee as Secretary of the Union 
was not to their liking. The Union failed to bring the management round 
to a reasonable frame of mind and had therefore to move the authorities of 
the Labour Department for redress of the grievance. Claim has been laid 
for bonue at the rate of eight weeks’ total emolumenty. 


3236 THE CATOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 [Parr | 


The Company resisted the claim and denied that the employees had any 
customar right to receive bonus. It wag submitted that the Company had 
suffered Joss in the years 1951, 1952 and 1993-und hence no bonus was paid 
in those years. Asa result of representations-made by the employees during 
those years for some payment, the Company exercised its discretion in their 
favour and made ea gratia payment solely as a gesture and goodwill without 
creating any precedence for the future. In 1954, the losses were still heavier 
and hence no payment of any amount was possible. Regarding the allega- 
tion that the election of Professor Nirmal Bhattacherjee and Shrijut Haripada 
Chatterjee had caused annoyance or irritation to the management, the 
Company has given a categorical denial. 


The Union’s case appears in paragraph 3 to be one of customary right. 
Plainly this is not a case for bonus to be paid out of surplus profits, nor is 
this strictly speaking a case of a right to recover bonus, as a condition of 
service arising from implied agreement. Reported cases dealing with cases 
for annual bonus on the footing that the right was rooted in the conditions 
of service have been placed in course of argument. In my view those 
cases are inappropriate having regard to the case made out in paragraph 3 
of the written statement. P.W. 1 admitted in his evidence that he did not 
know if bonus used to be paid on profits or as a condition of service. 
According to P.W. 1 bonus is being paid since 1947. Ext. B(1) 1s a letter 
written by the Managing Director to the Secretary of the Union intimating 
that the authorities at the head office in New York had accepted the 
recommendation of the local office for ex 77050 payment to the employees 
for the year ending 3lst August 1953. Ext. B is the communication 
addressed to the Company by the Union and the members individually 
signifying their willingness to accept ex gratia payment of four weeks’ basic 
salary, in satisfaction of their claim for bonus. Ext. A is a receipt granted 
for the er gratia payment made in accordance with the letter aforesaid. 
These documents prove conclusively that the Company was not willing to 
concede the existence of any right in the employees to receive bonus in 
those years. They decided however to make some payment to keep them 
contented-and the employees accepted the same without protest. On behalf 
of the Union, the learned Counsel cited a case ا‎ in 1954, 1۰. 
page 18. In that case claim was pressed on the footing that payment of 
annual bonus was a condition of service founded on implied agreement. I 
have already observed that in view of the pleadings this aspect of the case 
does not fall for consideration. Still the learned Counsel having relied on 
this case I may make my observations thereon. In the case cited, bonus 
had all along been paid sinve 1945 although the Company had incurred 
losses in all those vears excepting one year when the profits earned were 
negligible. According to their Lordships, the conduct of the Company 
to a certain extent excluded the element of bounty. Although the evidence 
was not very strong an agreement to pay bonus irrespective of profits could, 
in their Lordships’ view, be implied. In the present case element of bounty 
has not been ات‎ for, In express terms the Company gave the employees 
to understand that this was nothing better than ez gratia payment. The 
employees accepted the payment with the string thus attached. They 
cannot therefore turn round and say that payment in years of 1088 excludes 
the element of bounty. 


The case set up by the Union is that a practice had grown up in terms of 
which bonus was being paid year after year. If it is treated simply as u 
practice there is nothing to prevent the Company from setting a period to 
it and withdrawing the concession. A practice of this nature cannot be 
treated as binding forever or of perpetual effect. Treated a little more 
liberally the case may be considered to be one of a customary right. The 


parr T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3937 


law as administered in course of civil jurisdiction recognises customary 
rights but in order to crystallise into a right « custom must be immemorial, 
reasonable, and certain and further the enjoyment must have been as of 
right and neither by violenge nor hy stealth nor by leave granted (36, 
C.1..d., page 20). As in this case payment was made as a gesture of gond- 
will and was described as ex yratia payment, it is not possible to affirm that 
the employees had received bonus during these years as of right. VPayment 
by agreement in the terms referred to is negation of the important element 
that the enjoyment must have heen as of right. Secondly, a right to ripen 
into a customary right must be ancient. That element is also absent. In 
these’ circumstances the Tribunal cannot hold that the employees have 
acquired any right to receive bonus as claimed. The Company had the 
option to grant their prayer or to refuse it. It is hence awarded that the 
employees are entitled to any bonus for 1953-54 as of right. 


S. SENGUPTA, 
Judge, Siath Industrial Tribunal. 


Taken at my dictation any corrected by me. 
S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge. 


The 28th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3418)Dis./D/10L-6/56.—6th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
(tovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1256Dis./ D/ 
10L-6/56, dated the 23rd March 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Britannia Engineering Works, Ltd., Titaghur, 24-Parganas, and 
their workmen represented বি Britannia Engineering Sramik Union, 
B. T. Road, Titaghur, 24-Parganas, regarding the matters specified in the 


schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial 
Tribunal ; 


And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Governments its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section !7 of the 
Industrial Wisputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Britannia Engi- 
neering Works, Ltd., Titaghar, 24-Parganas, and their workmen 
represented by Britannia Engineering Sramik Union, B. T. Road, 
Titaghar, 24-Parganas, referred under Government order No. 1256- 
Dis. 'D/10L-6/56, dated 23rd March 1956. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Snrt G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 


3238 THK CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1916 [Parr } 
Appearances: 
For the employees: Shri Suren Dhar Chowdhury, Secretary, Britannia 
Engineering Sramik Union. 
For the Company: Shri J. N. Chatterjee, Assistant Labour Adviser of 
Indian Engineermg Association. 


By Government order No, 12961)75.11)1101,-60150, dated 28rd March 1956, 


the aforesaid dispute was referred to this Tribunal for adjudication. 


The issues as contained in the schedule to the order of reference stand 
as follows:— 
(1) Should the Management subsidise the cunteen to enable the 
workmen to have mid-day meals at concessional rates? 


(2) Has there been any cut in piece-rates and if so, what should be 
the fair piece-rates? 

(3) Whether new recruits should be confirmed on completion of six 
months’ continuous service in compliance with the certified 
standing orders? | 

AWARD 


Notice of the aforesaid dispute having been served on the parties, the 
Union filed its written statement on dth May 1956 and the Company on 
23rd June 1956. The case of the Union is that the canteen maintained 
by the Company in the factory at present serves no good to the workmen. 
The workmen are not allowed to use the dining hall for recess, nor do they 
get cheap mid-day meals. The grievance of the Union on this score is that 
unless the Company meets the establishment charges and other necessary 
expenses for the maintenance of the canteen, the object of the canteen wil] 
remain unfulfilled. The Union has further stuted that there has boen cui 
in the rates of the piece-rated workers during the last two years, as a result 
of which their wages have gone down considerably in relation to their 
past wages. Accordingly, the Union claimed that fair wages should be 
given to the piece-rated workers with full compensation for loss of their 
wages during the period in question. The Union has further contended 
in its written statement that the Company dves not care to follow the 
provision of the certified standing orders in the matter of confirmation of 
new recruits on completion of six months’ continuous service. The Company 
discontinues the services of such workmen just before the expiry of the 
period of six months, thereby disentitling them to permanency of service, 
and again recruit new hands who also go out of employment in the same 
way, as a result of which the new recruits are never confirmed in their 
services. 


The Company, in reply, has stated in its written statement that it 
started a canteen according to the directions of the First Major Engineering 
Tribunal Award of 1948, and maintains the same in accordance with the 
provisions of the Factories Act and rules made thereunder. The Manuge- 
ment of the canteen is entrusted to a Managing Committee consisting of 
four~persons, two of whom are elected by the workmen and two are 
nominated by the Manager. Jt denied the statement of the Union that 
the workmen were not allowed to use the dining hall of the Canteen during 
recess hours. ٤٤٢ maintains that the dining hall is kept open during recess 
and lunch hours, and is utilised by the workmen everv day. Regarding the 
alleged cut in piece-rates, the Company denied the allegation of the Union 
that it indulged in wilful wage cutting of the piece-rated workmen. As 
regards confirmation of new recruits on completion of six month’ conti- 
nuous service, the Company wants to say that the question of such confir- 
mation arises only in cases of probationers recruited on permanent 
vacancies, and that the said provision of the standing orders does not extend 


part T] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3239 


পা aa ea 
to tefh porary workmen, who are taken from time to time on account of 
temporary requirements, and whose period of service entirely depends on 
the duration of temporary work for whxh they are engaged. The 
Company has stated further that there is no such provision in the standing 
orders of the Company for confirmation of such temporary workmen. 


issue No. 1.—-Should the Management subsidise the canteen to enable 
the workmen to have mid-day meals at concesSonal rates ?—Admittedly, 
jhere is a canteen in the factory of the Company. It appears that the 
Company maintains the said canteen in accordance with the provisions of 
ihe Factories Act and rules made thereunder, O.P.W. 1 Shri V. S. 
Raghuvanshi, who is the Personnel Manager of the Company had deposed 
in this case. From his evidence, it appears that in the ganteen, which is 
maintained inside the factory, sweets, snacks, tea, etc., are catered, and 
ihat about 450 workers purchase the said materials from the canteen on an 
average per day. He has deposed that the dining hall in the canteen is 
also used by the workmen, who bring food from home, as they take the 
said food in the dining hall of the canteen during recess hours. In face 
of such positive testimony of the Personnel Manager, the version of the 
Union as made in the written statement that the workmen are not allowed 
to use the dining hall for recess, cannot be believed. It has further 
transpired from the evidence of the Personnel Manager that the Company 
provides crockery, cutlery, utensils, electricity, furniture, etc., for the 
canteen, and also pays Rs. 378 per month on an average for maintaining 
the staff of the canteen and for the cost of coal, fuel, etc. There is also a 
(‘anteen Committee, which consists of employers’s and employees’ repre- 
sentatives in equal number. In my view, the Company has done, what it is 
required to do in accordance with the provisions of the Factories Act and 
the rules made thereunder. The Management subsidises the canteen by 
paying a handsome amount per month. It is for the Canteen Committee 
to decide as to menu and price to be settled for mid-day meals. It is up to 
that Committee to take steps as to what would be the concessional rate for 
inid-day meals. Such a thing is a matter of detail, and it is for the 
(‘anteen Committee or for the Works Committee to settle it, and the 
Management cannot be directed to do anything further in this respect. 
This issue is decided accordingly. 


Issue NO. 2.—Has there been any cut in piece-rates and if so, what 
should be the fair piece-rates?——In fixing a piece-rate, one is to calculate 
everything to a nicety. This requires, among others, time and motion 
atudy and the degree of fatigue involved. There is no material before this 
Tribunal to enable it to consider whether the existing piece-rate is unfair, 
and should be revised. It must also be remembered that piece-rate once 
fixed in a scientific way, should not be easily disturbed. In the instant 
case, the grievance of the Union was that there has been cut in plece- 
rates, but the Union produced no material whatsoever before this Tribunal 
to support its contention. 0< the contrary, the Company has examined its 
Personnel Manager and has produced cost sheets (Ext. A-series). The oral 
and documentary evidence as adduced on the side of the Company, points 
to the clear direction that during the last few years, there has been no 
reduction or cut in piece-rates. So, on a consideration of the material 
placed before it, the Tribunal feels no hesitation in coming to the conclu- 
sion that there has been no cut or reduction in piece-rates. It being so, the 
question of fixing fair piece-rates does not at cannot arise at all in this 
cage, This issue is thus decided. ; 


Issue No. 3.—Whether new recruits should be confirmed on completion 
of sia months’ continuous service in compliance with the certtfied standing 
orders ?—The Company has produced certified standing orders, and it is 


3240 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 [14৮] 


ec NERO ara oh aoc ا‎ 


15৮ B. From the said standing orders, it is evident that the wobkmen 
in this concern are classified into four categories, (1) permanent or regulary 
workmen, (2) probationers,” (3) temporary workmen and (4). trade 
apprentices. It appears that only the probationers, who are provisionally 
employed to fill vacancies in regular posts, ure to be confirmed on comple. 
tion of six months’ continuous service in compliance with the certified 
standing orders. According to the Company, they have got some temporary 
hands in their factory. These temporary hands are recruited for some 
temporary work in anticipation of construction of some new factory. 
O.P.W. 1 the Personnel Manager has denied that these temporary hands 
were discharged and again reappointed. He, on the other hand, hag 
deposed on oath that the Company pays to these temporary hands the same 
wages as they do pay to other workmen, and they also enjoy other benefits 
and facilities, which the workers of the Company do enjoy. Whatever 
might be that, according to the provisions of the certified standing orders, 
such temporary workmen are not entitled to be confirmed on completion of 
six months’ service, as these temporary workmen are appointed for a 
limited period of work of an essentially temporary nature. Therefore, the 
new recruits who are taken as such temporary ‘workmen are not entitled 
to confirmation on completion of six months’ continuous service. The 
contention of the Union is, therefore, untenable and cannot be accepted 
regarding the new recruits, who are taken in as temporary workmen. This 
issue 19 answered accordingly. 


This is my award. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, G. 7. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal, 
The 25th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. ৪. P, MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER. 


No. 3480Dis./D/11L-12(A)Pt/56.—9th August 1956.—Whereas under 
the Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1683Dis. / 
D/111-12(A)Pt/56, dated the 19th April 1956, the industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Butto Kristo Paul & Co., Limited, 1 & 3 Bonfields Jane, 
Caleuita, and their employees represented by Butto Kristo Paul & Co., 1481.) 
Employees’ Union of 28۸ Netaji Subhas Road (Top floor), Calcutta, regard- 
ing the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudica. 
tion to the Second Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 


Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in tre matter of an industrial dispute oxisting between Messrs. 84 
Kristo Paul & Co., Limited, 1 and 3 80177101055 Lane, Calcutta, and 
their employee Shri Prahlad Mistry, represented by Butto Kristo Paul 
& Co. Ltd. Employees’ Union, 23/A Netaji Subhas Road (top fioor), 
Calcutta. 


part 1[ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1946 3241 
এসি লিলা 
BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSLRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT £ 
Surt G. P. MUBTHERIEG, Judge Second Industrial Tribunal. 


Appearances : 


For the hmployee: Shri Samar Roy, Vice-President of the Butta Kristo 
Paul & Co., Ltd., Employees’ Union. 


For the Company. Shn নি, C. Sen, Advocate. 


By Government order No. 16838Dis. /D/111.-12(A)Pt/56, dated 19th April 
1966, the above industrial dispute has been referred to this Tribunal for its 
ud judication. ٠ 


The issues as contuined in the schedule to the order of reference ure as 
follows :— 


(1) Is the discharge of Shri Prahlad Mistry justified? To what relief 
is he entitled? 


(2) Is any sum payable to the said workman on account of earned wages? 


AWARD 


The case of the employee, Shri Prahlad Mistry, in short is that he was 
continuously in the service of the Company since November 1952 on a salary 
of Rx 63 per month, but he was suddenly retrenched with effect from Ist 
Jvaistna of 1362 B.S. He was not given any retrenchment relief under 
the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. It is further alleged that at 
the time of his retrenchment, his salary for six months was due. Accord- 
ingly, retrenchment compensation for 14 months’ wages, one month’s wages 
in lieu of notice and also arrears of wages for ৪13 months have been claimed 
on behalf of the workman concerned. 


\ In reply, the Company stated that Shri Prahlad Mistry, who was a 
lumber, was not a regular workman of the Company, but he was something 
fa petty contractor engaged on a monthly basis. The Company has further 

contended that Shri Prahlad Mistry had not been in continuous service of 
the Company as alleged, and that he was, therefore, not entitled to any 
retrenchmont compensation as contemplated under the Act. The Company 
terminated the engagement of Shri Prahlad Mistry by way of retrenchment, 
in view of its financial difficulties. 


issue No, 1.—/s the discharge of Shri Prahlad Mistry justefied? To 
what relief is he entitled?—On a consideration of the matter, T am con- 
vinced that Shri Prahlad Mistry had to be discharged, in view of the bad 
financial position of the Company. This fact was not and could not be 
denied by Shri Prahlad Mistry himself, while giving evidence before the 
Tribunal. Accordingly, the Tribunal holds that the discharge of Shri 
Prahlad Mistry was justified. 


The workman concerned is entitled to get retrenchment relief as provided 
in section 26F of the Industrial Disputes Act. In my view, 11118 18 a case, 
which would attract the provisions of section 2917, and it makes no difference 
whether the discharge of the employee concerned hy wav of retrenchment 18 
justified or not. But the Company wanted to defeat this claim of the 
employee concerned by contending that Shri Prahlad Mistry was not a 
regular workman under the Company, but he was something of a petty con- 
tractor engaged on a monthly basis, and that the contract with him was con- 
tract, for service. and not contract of service. On a consideration of the 
evidence adduced by the parties, T feel no doubt or hesitation in saying that 
Shri Prahlad Mistry was a regular workman employed by the Company on 
a monthly pay. By no means, it can be held that he was a contractor, with 


3242 THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 [Pant ] 


whom there was contract for service and not contract of service. The 
Company, in my view, has signally foiled 10 establish that Shri Prahlad 
Mistry was employed as thei contractor, On the contrary, the evidence of 
the witness examined on behalf of the Company points to the direction that 
Shri Prahlad Mistry came within the ambit of “‘workman”’ as defined in 
section 2(s) of the Act. So, there 1s no substance or merit in the contention 
of the Company that Shri Prahlad Mistry was not a workman, but was a 
contractor. The Tribunal is of the view that Shri Prahlad Mistry was 9 
workman within the meaning of the Act. That being so, Shrt ٥ز‎ 
Mistry is undoubtedly edited to get retrenchment compensation as provided 
im section 26F of the Act. 


Therefore, the point for decision in this respect 1s what would be the 
২1510181601 such compensation, It is laid down in clause (b) of section 257 
that the workman shal] at the time of retrenchment be entitled to get com- 
pensation, which shall be equivalent to 15 days’ average pay for every 
completed year of service or any purt thereof in excess of 6 months. Thig 
necessarily requires determination of the length of such service of the work. 
man concerned in the Company and also of his pay. Regarding pay, there 
is no dispute or controversy between the parties. The version of the (০1. 
pany is that Shri Prahlad Mistry used to get Rs. 63 as his pay per month, 
and that no dearness allowance was paid to him. Shri Prahlad Mistry has 
alsa admitted in his evidence that he used to get Rs. 63 only as his pay, and 
did not get any dearness allowance. But the dispute centres round the 
question of his period of service for the purpose of assessing the amount of 
retrenchment compensation payable under section 25F of the Act. As stated 
already, the workman concerned is entitled under the law to get compensa- 
tion equivalent to 15 days’ average pay for every completed year of service 
or any part thereof in excess of 6 months. Section 25B provides that for the 
purposes of sections 250 and 25F, a workman, who during a period of 12 
calendar months has actually worked in an industry for not less than two 
hundred and forty days, shall be deemed to have completed one year of con- 
tinuous service in the industry. In Explanation to that section, it has heen 
laid down that in computing the number of days, on which a workman has 
actually worked in an industry, the days on which he has been on leave with 
full wages, shall be included. In the instant case, 1t appears from the oral 
and documentary evidence furnished by the Company that this worker had 
gone on leave from 14th Ashar 1360 B.S. and joined on Ist Agrahayan of 
that vear, and that during this period he did not get any wages. The 
worker concerned has also admitted in his evidence that he had gone home 
for some months after taking leave in the year 1953, and that he got no pay 
while he was on leave. That he got no wages while on leave during the 
period from 14th Ashar 1360 B.S. to Ist Agrahayan of that year, is thus 
an admitted fact. It being so, the above period should be excluded while 
con puting the number of days, on which he actually worked in the Company 
for that year. Admittedly, this workman served the Company from 
November 1952 till 3rd May 1955, when he was retrenched. The period as 
noted above, that is the period while he was on leave without wages, cannot 
be taken into account in computing one year of continuous service within 
the meaning of section 257 for the purpose of section 25F of the Act. 
According to section 25B of the Act, in order to qualify for one year’s con- 
tinuous service, the actual work aggregating to at last 240 days should be 
done within a span of 12 calendar months. That section clearly lays down 
thot the actual work for not less than 240 days should be done during a 

eriod of 12 calendar inonths. The workman must satisfy two conditions 
efore he can claim the benefits offered by section 26F. The first condition 
is that he must have put in 12 eculendar wonths’ service with the employer. 
The second condition is that during this service of 12 calendar months, he 
must have actually worked for not less than 240 days. Judged by the above 


Pant T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 324! 
০০০০ ET PT RAAT YA ae TET i Sak Toe ee a 


tests, 11 appears that this workman in the year 1952 worked only for two 
months (that is for November and Decembey only), which waa far below 240 
days and less than 6 months during a penod of 12 calendar months, and 
that during the year 19538, he worked for 223 days only (that is from 
January 1903 to 27th June 1993=178 days and from 17th November 1958 
to dist December 1953=45 days). ہمت‎ for the years 1952 and 19438, this 
workman is not entitled to get any retrenchment compensation, For the 
year 1955 also, he is entitled to no com7ensation. He was retrenched on 3rd 
May 1955. This indicates that his service for this year fell short of six months. 
But it is abundantly clear that in the year 1944, he was in continuous service 
of the Company, and had actually worked for 318 days im course of 12 
ealendar months. 11ص٥١,‎ for the year 1954 only, Shri Prahlad Mistry 2৪ 
ertitled to get retrenchment compensation, which shall be equivalent to 15 
days’ average pay, that ia-Rs, 31-8. 


Next question for consideration is whether the workman concerned 19 
entitled to get one month’s wages in lieu of notice. In the present case, one 
month’s notice as required under section 25F was not admittedly given to 
the workman. But a letter was given to this workman by the দাদ পি 
Director of the Company on 7:10 May 1955 and it is Ext. 1. From this 
letter, 1t appears that the workman concerned was informed that his services 
woulda not be required with effect from Ist Jyaistha 1362 B.S. 38rd May 1955 
corresponded to 19th Baishakh 1362 B.§. From that letter (Ext. 1) 1t appears 
further that the Management agreed to pay wages to the workman till 
3lst Baishakh 1362 B.S. The workman concerned has also admitted in his 
evidence that he got his wages from the Company up to 9186 Baishakh 1362 
B.S., and that nothing was due to him for arrears of wages. So, on a consi- 
deration of the matter, I am of the view that this workman is entitled to 
get wages for 18 days more (that is for the remaining days 10 complete one 
month) in lieu of notice, and such wages shall be calculated at the rate of 
Rs. 63 per month, which was the basic salary of the workman concerned. It 
ia accordingly awarded that the above payments be made to Shri Prahlad 
'Mistry within 14 days from the date of publication of the award in_ the 
Caleutta Gazette. This issue is decided thus. 


issue NO, 2.—/s any sum payable to the satd workman om account of 
earned wages?—Jt was stated in the written statement filed on behalf of 
the workman that his earned wages for six months were also due from the 
Compuny, and accordingly a claim was laid for the same. But at the time 
of hearing, this part of the claim was abandoned by the workman con- 
cerned. fe has deposed that he got his arrears of wages for six months, 
which were due to him. He has also admitted that he got the same about 
§/6 months ago. Jn view of this clear and unequivocal statement of the 
worker, the Tribunal holds that nothing is payable to this workman on 
account of earned wages. This issue is accordingly answered 11) the 
negative. 


This 18 my award. 
Iictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEF, 


Judge. 


The 28th July 1956. G. P. MUKRITERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. ٥. P. MOKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


(উই 


3244 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 9 [Parr T 


ORDER 


No. 8466Dis. /I/111-14/56.4-7th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4685 Dis. /1D/11L- 
12/53, dated the 7th December 1958, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Bengal Waterproof Works (1940), Lid., 10800100010) 24-Parganas, and their 
workers as represented by the Bengal Waterproof Workers’ Union, Kamar. 
hatty, 24-Parganas, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
was referred for adjudication to the Sixth Industrial Tribunal ; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal, 
a complaint was filed before it against the said Company by Shri Bimalendu 
Ghose and 338 other workers of the said Company alleging that the said 
Company had altered, to the prejudice of the said workers, the conditions 
of service applicable to them immediately before’the commencement of said 
proceedings ; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 934 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has 
adjudicated upon the said complaint and submitted-its award to the State 
Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, as amended by the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act, 1950, filed by Bimalendu Chose and 338 others of Messrs. Bengal 
Waterproof Works (1940), Ltd., 32 Theatre Road, Calcutta, represented 
by Bengal Waterproof Workers’ Union, P.O. Panihati, 24-Parganas, 
against the aforesaid Company (case No, 106-—33A of 1954), 


BEFORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
NEW SECRETARIAT BUILDINGS, THIRD FLOOR, CALCUTTA. 


PRESENT: 
Suri SAILESH SENGUPTA, Judge, Sirth Industrial Tribunal. 


The original reference out of which this case has arisen was made under 
Government order No. 4685Dis./D/11L-12/53, dated 7th December 1953. 

This is an application under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act preferred by 3389 employees of Messrs. Bengal Waterproof Works, Ltd., 
on the alleged violation of section 33 by the Company refusing to grant 
annual increment for the year 1954. 

The Company’s case 18 that losses were suffered in 1953, to such an 
extent that the Company’s finances did not permit of granting any incre- 
ment. There was no award in force by virtue of which the employees 
could claim as of right, increment for the year in question. 

Parties settled their differences by friendly treaty and embodied the 
terms of settlement in a petition filed before the Tribunal. The terms are 
fair and reasonable. An award is accordingly made in terms of the 
settlement, the compromise petition being treated as part thereof in the 


form of an annexure. 
S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Sizth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 31st July 1956. 


part T] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 2245 
নিটল লন 
ANNEXURE 
BEVYORE THE SIXTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


In the matter of an application under 
section 9884 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act 

And 


Shri Bimalendu Ghosh and others— 
— Petitioner, 
versus 


Messrs. Bengal Waterproof Works 
(1940), Ltd.—Oppositte Party, 


The humble petition of compromise 
Between 


the petitioner and the opposite party 
Company abovenamed 


MoST RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH: 


That the parties abovenamed have settled their disputes in terms of an 
agreement enclosed herewith. 

It is therefore humbly prayed that the Tribuna] will be pleased to pase 
a ‘‘no dispute’ award in terms of the agreement enclosed herewith. 


And for this act of kindness your petitioners as in duty bound shall ever 
pray. 
For Bengal Waterproof Works (1940), Ltd., 
S. K. DAS, 


Secretary. 


N. DAS GUPTA, 
Advocate for Opposite Party Company, 


Dated Calcutta, the 24th July 1956. 


For and on behalf of the petitioners 
BIMALENDU GHOSH, 


Secretary, 
Bengal Waterproof Workers’ Union, 
1৮, N. 494, 


Filed by 


24-7-56, 


Tuis AGREEMENT made this 24th day of July 1956, between BEncaa 
WaterProor Works (1940), Limitep, hereafter called the Company of the 
one part and BencaL ۳۷ ۸۱۶۰7:۶۲0۶ WorkERS’ Union hereinafter called the 
Union of the other part; 


Whereas there are pending certain disputes between the Company and 
the Union and wnHeEreEas the parties are desirous of settling the disputes 
amicably for smooth and better working of the Company, the parties thereto 
agree to the following terms of settlement in the matters of incremental 
grade-scale, annual bonus, economic production, etc. 


1. Incremental grade-Scale.—(a) The Union agrees to give up its claim 
for increment of salary /wages for the years 1954 and 1955 in order to assist 
in the economic reorganisation and reconstruction of the Company. The 
Union agrees to withdraw its cases pending before the Industrial Tribunals. 


3246 THE CAIAUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 ب۶۸]‎ ] 


(b) The Company agrees to pay increment of salary/wages for the year 
1956 according to the 1948 gra e-scale, 


(c). It 1৭ mutually agreed that the 1948 grade-scale is modified as per 
attached schedule with effect from Ist January 1957. 


2. The Company agrees to pay its employees on the completion of this 
agreement only one ez gratia payment equal to 74 days’ basic salary | wages 
plus 74 days’ dearness allowance as on 9186 December 1955. This is in 
addition to the ex gratia payment declared by the Compuny’s notice, dated 


lith October 5۰ 


3. Annual bonus.—(a) The Company agrees to pay for 1956 onwards 
its employees as annual bonus, equivalent in amount to 25 per cent. (twenty- 
five per cent.) of the net profit of the Company for the year before deducting 
income-tax, to be paid proportionately to basic salary/wages plus dearness 
allowance, with a minimum amount equal to half month’s basic salary | wages 
plus half month’s dearness allowance and a maximum amount equal to three 
months’ basic salary/wages plus three months’ déarness allowance. 


(b) It is agreed that the minimum bonus as mentioned above will be 
paid three weeks before the Puja holidays of the year for which bonus is 
payable and the balance, if any, will become payable after the net profit 
of the year 1s finally سد‎ হা 


(c) The Union has no claim for any arrear bonus for any year up to 
318% December 5۰ 


(d) The above payments will be subject to rules regarding payment of 
bonus that will be framed in agreement between the parties. 


4, Economic production.—The Union agrees to 19196 existing production 
norms. Such norms, which have been under discussion between the 
Company representatives and the Union’s representatives, will be mutually 
settled and finalised within two months from date. If the settlement about 
revised production norms together with provision by the Company of faci- 
lities for extra production to enable workers to obtain increased earnings 
does not materialise the Company will not in that case be bound to pay the 
minimum annual bonus as indicated in clause 3 mentioned above. 


Oo. Regarding refixation in grades, jobs will be revalued and grades fixed 
on such revaluation where possible, and in other cases on some guitable 
principle. For this purpose, the Company will appoint a Consulative Fixa- 
oe Committee, consisting of the representatives of the Company and the 

10101), 


6. About the Company’s proposal for introduction of a new ‘“‘D”’ grade 
for non-productive workers on an experimental and temporary basis, this 
will be settled later by mutual agreement. 


7. Other matters raised by both the parties will be discussed and settled 
by mutual agreement at later stage. 


8. This agreement will be valid and binding on the parties for three 
years from date. At the end of three years, the position will be reviewed 
in the light of the circumstances then existing, and if necessary, a fresh 
agreement on all matters will be entered into. 


parr 1] THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 3247 


সন 


ভার্ন 


৮৯০৪ এ OF, ০ সিএ আপি یی‎ OE ومسوویومیوپصجددِمسرے‎ 


I~ wrrness whereof the parties hereto have signed this agreement the 
day and the year first above written, 
ILLEGIBLE, 


Director, 
Yor Bengal Waterproof Works (1940), Ltd. 
BIMALENDU GHOSE, 
Secretary, for Bengal Waterproof Workers’ Union, 
Witness: 


ও. Kk. DAS, 
Service, 32 Theatre Road. 


PANCHANAN SARKER, Service, 
32 Theatre Road, Calcutta. 
Scheduled attached to Agreement, dated 24th July 1956, between Bengal 


Waterproof Works (1940), Ltd. and Bengal Waterproof Workers’ 
Union. 


For staff— 
Grade B—Rs, 50—3—80—E.B.—5-—-130—E.B,—5—156. 
(71806 A—Ks, T0—5—120—E. B.—8—200-—10 /2—220, 
Grade—Assistant (office) /Assistant Foreman (Factory)—Rs. 100— 
§—140-—200—-E. B.—10—800. 
Girade—Head Assistant (office)/Foreman (Factory)—Rs, 145—10— 
245—. B.—124—-345. 

Intermediate stafi—Rs, 45—24—65—E.B.—34—82}. 

For subordinate staff— 


Durwans—Kks. 35—]—49. 
Malis—Rs. 30. 


০7 workers (operatives)— 
Grade C—Rs, 30—0-13-0—4-14—KE. B.—0-138-0—38-2. 
(trade B—Rs. 35—1—42—E. B.—1—A), 
(77806 A—Its. 40-10—1-10—52—E.B.—1-10—65, 
Grade—Sardar—Rs, 65—2—78. 


Mechanical and Maintenance— 


Class 3—Rs. 35—14—-50—E. B. —2—66, 
Class 2—Rs, 45—-2—61—E. B.—3—82. 
Class l—Rs. 55—3—70—H. B.—4— 9). 
Special—Hs. 75—5-—125. 
Rs. 100—7—150. 
For Bengal Waterproof Works (1940), Ltd., 


B. P. BOSH, 


Director. 
For Bengal Waterproof Workers’ Union, 
BIMALENDU GHOSE, 


Secretary. 
S. SENGUPTA, 


Judge, Surth Industrial Tribunal. 
he 315 July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
1), ٠. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Seoy. 


3248 THE CATIOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 [Parr 1 


ORDER 


No. 3500Dis/D/ 41-12/55.—9th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2546Dis./D/ 
4L-12/55, dated the 8th June 1955, the industrial dispute between Shri D. ۰ 
Biswas, owner of bus No. WBU332 of 18/1 Chandi (thosh Road, Tollygunge, 
Calcutta, and his employee, named in the schedule thereto, represented by 
Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union of 3842/1 G. T. Road, Sualkia, 
Howrah, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was 
referred for adjudication to the Fifth Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said Fifth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Shri D. ۸. Biswas, 
owner of the bus No. WBU332 of 18/1 Chandi Chosh Road, Tolly- 
gunge, Calcutta, and his employee Shri Mrinal Bose, represented by 
the Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union of 342/1 C. T. Road, 


Salkia, Howrah. 
BEFORE THE FIFTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Suri 0. PALIT, Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal. 


Present for the Union: Shri Saroj Ghosal of the Union and Shri Prodip 
Sen, President, Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union. 


Present for the Employer: Shri A. Gan, General Secretary of the Joint 
Service Committee. 


1. By Government order No. 2546Dis./D/4L-12/55, dated the 8th 
June 1955, the aforesaid dispute has been referred to the Fifth Industrial 
Tribunal, presided over by me for adjudication under section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947). The said Fifth Industrial 
Tribunal was constituted under section 7 of the Act by the notification 


No. 8581197)., dated the 9th June 1951. 
9 The reference was received here on 15th June 1955. After usual 


notices, the Union filed written statement on 25th July 1955. The 
employer filed written objection on 15th September 1955. The case was 
takep up for hearing on 2186 May 1956. But at the suggestion of the 
parties for an amicable settlement of the dispute, the hearing was 
adjourned. But no settlement could be reached. So the case was taken 
up for hearing again on 7th June 1956, and the evidence was concluded 
on that day. The argument was heard in part on 146) June 1956, and 
finally it was concluded on 24th July 1956. The award was reserved. 


8, The only issue contained in the schedule to the order of reference 


stands as follows :— 
If the discharge of Shri Mrinal Bose was justified; to what reliel 
including reinstatement and/or any other compensation is he 


entitled ۶۴ 


part 5] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1946 3249 


+ ae 


AWARD 


4. Before ا‎ discuss the issue specificalPy, I. would like to refer to the 
brief history of the dispute. According to the Union, the Tlowrah District 
Bus Workers’ Union was formed on 919 May 1954 in respect of workers 
punbering about 330 of buses plying in routes Nos. 51, 54, 56 and 60 in 
the district of Howrah. Thereafter the Union placed its charter of 
demands to the Assistant Labour Commissioner, Howrah, and _ to the 
individual owners of buses on 245th August 1954. The present petitioner, 
Shri Mrinal Bose, who was a driver under the employer Shri D. N. Biswas, 
was the Organising Secretary of the aforesaid Union. Then, during the 
period between 9186 May 1954 and 6th September 1954 the owners of buses 
in the aforesaid routes discharged as many as 18 workmen serving under 
them without any reason being assigned and without any charge-sheet 
being given to them. Mrinal Babu along with one Sukharanjan Chakra- 
yorty and others championed the cause of the said victimised workers. 
They waited on a deputation before the District Magistrate, Howrah, and 
the Regional Transport Authority in September 1954. Eventually there 
had been a conciliation proceeding started by the Labour authorities, and 
those 18 workmen had their reinstatement in service in November 1954. 
But just before this Shri Mrinal Bose, the Organising Secretary of the 
Union, was discharged on Ist October 1954 without any charge-sheet and 
without any reason being shown. So Shri Mrinal Bose, the present peti- 
tioner, claims reinstatement, and also compensation for the period of forced 
unemployment. 


The employer contends that he is an East Bengal refugee, and owns a 
single bus. He purchased the bus at a heavy outlay, but his transport 
business proved to be a losing one. He accuses the driver Shri Bose with 
the charges of rash driving and causing damages to his bus in course of the 
driver’s 10 months and 15 days’ service. It is further said that Shri 
Mrinal Bose used to withhold a portion of the day’s collection without the 
employer’s permission. He was warned by the employer against commit- 
ting accidents by rash driving, and against allowing other drivers to ply 
the bus without the employer’s permission. Shri Mrinal Bose was a 
temporary workman employed in the leave vacancy of one Kartic Chandra 
Das. After his discharge Shri Bose was fully paid his dues. But 
Shri Bose, however, kicked up a ‘‘row’’ on 380th September 1954, and 
abused the employer in filthy ae This is the employer’s version of 
the story of the present case. The employer, later on, has taken legal 
objections that the present dispute being an ‘‘individual dispute’ as 
distinguished from an “industrial dispute’, the Tribunal has got no 
jurisdiction to adjudicate upon it, and also that Mrinal Bose is not compe- 
tent to raise a dispute after his discharge, as has been done in the present 
case, 


Now, I would like to deal with the legal objections first before I discuss 
the case on merits. 


Regarding the assertion that the present dispute is an individual dispute, 
it will have to be shown by evidence that the cause of the workman in 
question was not espoused either by any Union or by his fellow workers, 
priory to the date of reference. The evidence, of course, is rather meagre 
so far as the question that the fellow workers of this man*had made his 
grievances their own cause directly. But the evidence is abundantly clear 
that the inion had taken up his cause long before the date of reference. 
refer fo the Ext. 2, dated the 8th November 1954. This is a copy of the pro- 
ceedings of the joint discussions on the 8th November 1954, under the name 
of Shri B. .کا‎ Basu, Assistant Labour Commisssioner, Howrah, West 


3250) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 24, 1880 [Parr ] 
এ সা সনি তি 


Bengal. 1 quote from the paragraph بل‎ “As regards Subharanjan, 
Bharat and Mrinal, as emplovers concerned cannot ugree to reinstate 
them it is proposed that the dispute over their dismissal be 
referred to a Tribunal for adjudication, on the understanding that the 
Union will withdraw the contemplated strike’. Thus, it is clear that the 
Union had espoused the cause of Mrinal Babu as far back as the 8th 
November 1904, if not earlier, and that the Union was contemplating to 
resort to a strike over the dismissal of the above workmen. The Text. 2(a) 
gives the names of the other workers who were similarly discharged. The 
Ext. 2(b) also shows that the President of the Union wrote to the District 
Magistrate over the dismissal of Shri M. Bose on Ist October 1954. The 
date of the present reference is the 8th June 1955. So it is clear that 
Shri Mrinal Bose was discharged, and his discharge was taken up by his 
Union long before the date of reference. It 18 contended by the employer 
{hat there is no document to show that the Union was specifically authorised 
by Shri Mrinal Bose to represent his case. But that is neither here nor 
there. The question of ‘‘representation’’ by a Union is something different 
from the question of one’s cause being espoused by a Union. So far as 
the ‘‘representation’ is concerned the order of reference is explicit, and 
perhaps says the last word. So it is clear that the present so, 
though originally it had been between Shri Mrinal Bose and his employer 
was developed into a dispute between the employer and the Union of 
which the said Mrinal Bose was a member. So it developed into a 00]. 
lective dispute and, as such, there can be no question of the present dispute 
being an industrial dispute. 


The argument that Shri Mrinal Bose being an ex-employee cannot be a 
‘‘workman’’ is merely an attempt of a dying man to catch at a straw. A 
“dismissed workman’’ is a ‘‘workman’’ as defined in section 2(8) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as I shall show presently. A dispute raised 
in connection with his non-employment falls within the definition of 
industrial dispute in section 2(k). This was decided in the case of Ganesh 
Das Ramgopal versus the Government of U.P., reported at page 479 of the 
Indian. Faetories Journal of February 1953. Further reference may be 
made to the famous cases of Western India Automobile Association versus 
Industrial Tribunal (1949), reported in 1 F.J.R., page 97, and India 
Paper Pulp Co., Ltd., versus Workers’ Union, reported in 1 F.J.R., page 
119. Both are the decisions of the Hon’ble Federal Court. I may refer 
also to the decision of Mr. Justice Mack of the Madras High Court in the 
famous Kandan Textile Ltd. versus Industrial Tribunal case. I quote 
from His Lordship’s observations: ‘‘If such a dismissal, however, even 
of an individual workman is taken up by Workers’ Union or a substantial 
body of workmen who continue in employment and espouse his cause, 
then an industrial dispute may arise’’. 


His Lordship Bind Basni Prasad of the Allahabad High Court in the case 
of Ganesh Das Ramgopal observed: ‘‘It is admitted on behalf of the 
applieant that if any dispute is taken up by other workmen of the 
industrial establishment or by their Union, then it would become an 
industrial dispute’’. The most recent case of the Hon’ble Calcutta High 
Court can be found in the C.W.N., Vol. LX, dated the 16th July ۵۰ 
Mr. Justice Sinha found in the case of Bengal Club, Ltd. versus Sant: 
Ranjan as follows: ‘‘Where an individual workman is dismissed and his 
dismissal is not objected to by any Union of workmen or by a majority 
of his fellow workmen, that 19 an individual dispute between the employer 
and an individual workman, and is not an ‘industrial dispute’ and neve 
developed into one’. From this it 1s clear that if the majority of the 
fellow workmen or any Union of workmen espouse an individual dispute, 


“a 


part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3251 


shen it turns into an industrial dispute even though it might not be 
originally so. So the position is perfectly clear. In the present case 
there is no question of the dispute being an industrial dispute, though it 
might look as an individual dispute in the context of circumstances. | 


Regarding the maintainability of the present dispute in law by an ex- 
workman, the position is not different. It can be maintained as such as 
ig clear from the aforesaid cases. Desides, the evidence makes it clear 
that there had been already o pre-existing dispute over the discharge of 
certain workmen, and Mrinal Babu was pushing their cause. Then 
followed his own dismissal. So he was discharged in course of a dispute 
and, a8 ৪001, comes within the definition of “‘workman’’. 


Next, I consider the question on merits. It is admitted that Shri Mrinal 
Bose was given no charge-sheet, and there was no enquiry held before his 
discharge, nor after that. The discharge certificate was given to him only 
when he refused to stop running the vehicle. That will appear from the 
Ext. 1, which is the discharge certificate. But it does not speak of any 
reason for his discharge. So it is clear that the employer had practically 
nothing before him to justify the discharge of Shri Mrinal Bose, It 18 
only in the written statement that the management comes forward with a 
statement that the facts pleaded in paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the said 
written statement constitute the cause of his discharge. But in the 
evidence the employer could not substantiate any of them. By the Ext. C 
the employer wanted to show that Mrinal Babu was involved in an accident. 
But the Exhibit does not show that on its face. Besides, 16 might be that 
the accident was of such a nature over which the driver could not have 
any control. It does not appear that the driver was ever convicted and 
fined by any Court of Law for any accident. Then, regarding the charge 
of rash driving, there is no evidence at all. Then again, regarding the 
llezed unauthorised taking of a moiety of the day’s collection, some 
teceipts have been filed. But these may show that or practice was only 
usual. It is admitted that the driver defrayed the expenses of running 
repairs of the bus from the day’s collection and adjusted ‘the same later 
on. Had the employer really taken any exception to such conduct of the 
driver, he would certainly have demanded an explanation from the driver. 
But there is no evidence to that effect. So it appears that the employer 
is piling up these charges only to justify his action of discharge which could 
uot otherwise be accounted for. Besides, the employer practically keeps 
mum over the fact that Mrinal Babu had Union activities. There is ample 
evidence to this effect in writing. So 16 1s likely that Mrinal Babu had 
incurred the displeasure of his employer along with those of other employers 
of the aforesaid transport service who had an organisation of their own. 
That is why Mrinal Babu was served with the dismissal or discharge order 
without any charge-sheet, without any enquiry and without showing any 
reason. If such a conduct on the part of an employer is condoned, then 
that would put the cause of progress of the labour movement backward. 
In that case there would be hardly any employee who would be brave 
enough to have active part in Trade Union movement because that would 
entail loss of his service. Service now a days is hard to procure. Loss of 
service may mean starvation and ruin 10 a worker who generally lives from 
hand to mouth. So, in the circumstances, I set aside the order of dismissal 
or discharge of Shri Mrinal Bose, the present petitioner..I order his 
reinstatement within one month of the award coming into operation. 


_ Regarding compensation for the period of forced unemployment, I have 
in evidence that Mrinal Babu had casual services during this period 
altogether to two months or so. THe is also running a tailoring shop with 


3252 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 [Parr J 
ee ee oe 


his brother. Of course, it 18 not to be expected that a man though unjustly 
thrown out of employment, would be sanguine enough of his reinstatemen} 
and .sit idle, therefore, in the hope of getting compensation for the period 
of unemployment. But at the same time we should remember that the 
employer also did not have the benefit of service of this man during that 
period, though for this he is to blame none but himself. So, in view of 
this, I Pec compensation at the tate of half his average monthly earnings 
during last two months just before his discharge, from Ist October 1954 
up to the date of his reinstatement in service. This should be paid in 
three equal monthly instalments after the award becomes operative. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 
G. PALIT, 
Judge. 


r 


G. PALIT, 
Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal. 
The 81st July 1956. | 


By order of the Governor, 
D. $8. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, Jt. ১৪০, 


ORDER 


No. ہے ایا یس‎ 13th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 6059Dis./D/ 
11172911104) dated the 13th October 1955, the industrial dispute betwéen 
Messrs. Grant Advertising Inc., 16 Theatre Road, Calcutta, and Messrs. 
Imperial Tobacco Company of India, 140.) 37+Chowringhee, Calcutta-16 
and their workmen represented by Grant Advertising Calcutta Mmployees 
Union, 27/3/2H, Kankulia Road, Ballygunge, Calcutta-19, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule theretv was referred for adjudication to 
the Llirst-Industrial Tribunal ; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the 8910 
Tribunal a complaint in writing was made by Shri 8S. Roy and seven others, 
before the said Tribunal, against the said Companies, alleging that the said 
Companies had discharged the said workmen concerned in such dispute; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its mterim award to the State 
{tovernment; = 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 18 pleased here- 
by to publish the said interim award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE, 


in the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri 8. Roy and seven others against Messrs. Crant 
Advertising Inc., 16 Theatre Road, Calcutta-16, and Messrs. Imperial 
Tobacco Co. of India, Ltd., 37 Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-16. (Case 
No. 16 of 1956 under section 339), 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 


PRESENT : 
Sri M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Ketd.), Judge, Farst Industrial 


Tribunal. 


1১811] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 3203 


حصہسووس سم وے سے ہی 


rw 


নি 


For Pre Complainants—Shri 1), 16, Mukherji, assisted by Shri N. Podhi, 
10171 Secretary. 


For Grant Advertising Ine.—Shri مھ‎ ©, Sen, Advocate, assisted by 
Mr, Ik. Foster, Manager. 


For Imperial Tobacco Co, of India, Ltd.—Shri 8. K. Banerji, Solicitor 
Shri 11. 11. Tayabjee. 


INTERIM AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, by order, 
No, ۰ )/111.-217/54, dated 13th October 1955, referred, under 
sections ¢ and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between Messrs. Grant Advertising Inc., 16 Theatre 
Road, Calcutta, and Messrs. Imperial Tobacco Company of India, Ltd., 7 
Chowringhee Caleutta-16 and their workmen সা by Grant Advertis- 
ing Culeutta Employees’ Union, 27/3/2E Kankulia Road, Calcutta-19, 
regarding some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The proceedings arising out of this reference are still pending. 


The Company by a notice, dated 14th January 1956, terminated the 
service of eight of the artists in their employ with immediate effect. On 
16th January 1956 these eight artists filed a complaint under section ۸ 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, stating that the opposite party No. 1 
Messrs. Grant Advertising Inc. and opposite party No. 2 Messrs. Imperial 
Tobaceo Co. of India, Ltd., have been guilty of violation of section 98 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act in terminating the services of the petitioners. 
It is also stated that the order of discharge of the applicants was passed by 
he said opposite party No. 1 in collusion with the opposite party No. 2 with 
7 object of victimising the applicants for their trade union activities. 

he petitioners pray for reinstatement and other further relief as the 
Tribunal may award, 


The opposite party No. 1 Grant Advertising Inc. in their written state- 
ment denies that it was guilty of violation of section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. It is stated that the petitioners were, until the termination 
of their services, employed by the opposite party No. 1 as artists in its 
Arts Studio and were not engaged in doing any skilled or unskilled, manual 
or clerical work with this opposite party and were not, therefore, ‘“‘work- 
men” within the meaning of the term in section 2(s) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. The petitioners were not, therefore, entitled to apply under 
section 838A of the Act as they have done. The opposite party No. 2, the 
Imperial Tobaeco Co. of India, Itd., in a separate written statement states 
that there is no employer-employee relationship between the petitioners and 
the opposite party No. 2 Tmperial Tobacco Co. of Tudia, Tid., and that 
this opposite party is not in any way concerned with the business arrange- 
ments of Messrs, Grant Advertising Inc. Both the opposite parties, there- 
fure, state that the petition under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act filed by the applicants should be rejected. 


The complaint under section 3۸۸ of the Act was taken up for ۶٣ 
on 25th May 1956, and after a partial hearing, it was agreed between all 
{he parties that the hearing of this case should be taken up either along 
with the hearing of the main reference. or after the disposal of that 
reference, as there are common points for decision in the main reference 
case as wel] as in this case, 


হজ ডি SS یو ہے‎ Pct PIT sh ct IS et RING Tpit SEC TIE উমা উতলা LEE ESE POE IE রহ PELE OSES CLES BIG, 
or ہج‎ 


3254 THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 25, 1986 [Parr ] 


On 14th July 1956 the petitioners filed an application for getting iMerim 
relief, pending decision of the prayer under section 338A of the Act men- 
tioned above. The appheants prayed for receiving 50 per cent. of their 
wages up-to-date to maintain themselves on the grounds that,-— 


(a) they شس‎ stranded after their sudden and unjustified discharge, 
an 


(b) they honestly believed that there was a very good chance of their 
ultimate success in this case. 


The petition was fixed for hearing on 21st July 1956, and on that date a 
written statement was filed by the opposite party No. ] Grant Advertising 
Incorporated. The parties agreed to address the court on that dale and 
the case was heard on that date. The written statement of the Company 
opposite party No. 1 states as follows: 


(1) The application for interim relief is not maintainable in law, inas- 
much as, the applicants in question have already been discharged on 
economic grounds. In the reply to the application under section 34 of 
the Act, the opposite party submitted that the applicants were not “work. 
men’’, as contemplated under the Industrial Disputes Act, Unless this 
uestion is finally settled, this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to entertain 
this application and give any award, final or interim. 


(2) This application for interim relief is not a bona fide one, as on the 
lust date of hearing, the applicants themselves prayed for adjournment of 
the case till the final ا‎ of the main case, in which all the employees 
of the opposite party raised the question whether they were the employees 
of this Company or of the Imperial Tobacco Co. of India, Ltd. 


(3) On the applicants being discharged on economic grounds, the other 
employees of the opposite party, evidently at the instance of the appli- 
cants, staged a stay-in-strike and a conciliation proceeding was started and 
un agreement arrived at. In this settlement, it was agreed that the peti- 
tioners would return their cheques which were given to them on 
14th January 1956 with the letters of discharge and the Management would 
ن٣٢‎ them’ the actual working period wages only, 1.e., from Ist January 
1956 to 15th January 1956, and that if the Tribunal’s decision went in 
favour of the Management on the question whether artists were workmen, 
they would get the balance payable to them along with other legal dues, 
if any. This agreement is binding on the petitioners and they also ratified 
it by their conduct and returned the cheques to the Company in pursuance 
of the above agreement. 


The two grounds which the petitioners advance are not sufficient to 
sustain a claim for interim relief as made. An interim relief can be asked 
for only in aid of the final relief that is likely to be given and in the case 
where money payments are prayed for as a measure of interim relief, the 
question of adjustment towards the final amount ا٦‎ be given must be kept 
in view (aide case of Messrs. Benett Colman & Co., 1944 T1.A.C. 24). The 
monty awarded in the interim relief should be capable of being merged und 
adjusted in the final relief, The question whether the petitioners are 
‘workmen’? and would be entitled to any relief by way of wages in the 
final adjudication of the case under section 38A of the Act, 19 of importance, 
in view of the claim for an interim relief of 50 per cent. of the wages for 
the period from the date of their discharge till] date. Although a decision 
of the question is necessary for the final determination of the case, a prime 
facie decision on the point would be sufficient for a consideration of the 
present petition (vide the case of National Tobacco Co. of India, 11. 1962 
L.A.C. 251). Again, even if this point were decided in favour of the peti- 
(101,618) inasmuch as the dispute relates to termination of service, an 


part J] THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3255 
a A سس سس ججےچسپ چچششستکپتسٹت سس شس سج شس سم‎ 
1016) award allowing wages or emoluments should not be made when 
there is a risk of the money awarded being not recoverable, if the termina- 
tion of service be upheld in the final award* (vide the case of Punjab 
National Bunk, 1994) 3,450. 73 at page 80). An interim award could be 
wade for a sum which would be payable to the petitioners, even if the claim 
of re-instatement failed as the sum could be adjusted at the final decision. 


{t has been decided in the 0886. of Advertising Corporation of India, 
‘aleutta versus Birendra Chandra Nag and others, which is reported in 
1955 L.A.C. 634, that assistant artists in the Advertising Corporation, who 
got their idea from the Chief Artist, were not ‘‘workmen”. The learned 
Jawyer for the petitioners claimed that the facts of that case did not apply 
to the present one. That may be so when detailed evidence are adduced 
on the point at the time of the hearing. At the present stage, however, it 
would appear, In view of the decision quoted above, that the prima facie 
case i8 against the petitioners. a the claim for wages month by 
month till the present day by retrenched persons, even if they were work- 
men, would be unjustified as in vase the claim of the petitioners were nega- 
tived in the section 33A case, there would be the risk of the money thus 
paid bemg not recoverable. An interim award could, however, be made 
as mentioned above for a sum which would he payable to the petitioners 
even if their claim for reinstatement were rejected. But in this respect 
the petitioners have shown a contrary desire, inasmuch as the additional 
emoluments which were paid to them in a cheque have been returned by 
the petitioners to the Company opposite party No. 1 in ratification of an 
agreement between the Union and the Company. 


In these circumstances, there is nothing to warrant advance payment of 
my money to the petitioners by way of an interim relief, and the present 
petition should be rejected and it is awarded accordingly. 


M. C. BANERJI, 


Judge, Furst Industrial Tribunal, 
The 31st July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
[), ٥. 7, MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3620Dis./D/14L-8/56.—LOth August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 2785Dis./D 
141.-8/56, dated the 24th June 1956, the questions mentioned in the sai 
order and relating to the interpretation of the award, published under the 
9811 department order No. 583Dis./D/141-11/54, dated the 10th Febru- 
ary 1956, was referred for decision to the Second Industrial Tribunal]; 


And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said questions; 


0 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 


a to publish the award on the said questions as shown in the annexure 
ereto, 


3256 THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 [Paxrr 1 
পপ উর 
ANNEXURE 
in the matter of interpretation of the award given by this Tribunal in 
respect of an industrial dispute existing between Uttarpara Municipality 
and their workmen represented by Uttarpara-Kotrung Municipat 
Mazdoor Union, which was published in the “Calcutta Cazette’’, dated 


23rd February 1956, under the Labour Department order No. 53Dis.. 
/D/14L-11/54, dated 10th February 1956, 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Sure G. 1১, MOKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 


Appearances : 
For the employees—Shri Patit Pabun Pathak. 
For the Company—Shri P, R. Mukherjee, Advocate. 


By order No. 40241)78.11)1 14171117104) dated 30th August 1955, the Gov- 
ernment of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, referred an industrial 
dispute existing between Uttarpara Municipality and their workmen repre- 
sented by Uttarpara-Kotrung নিস শন Mazdoor Union to this Tribunal for 
adjudication regarding certain matters, as mentioned in the order of 
reference. One of the items in respect of that dispute was prohationary 
period of workmen, and it was issue No. (4) of the schedule to the said 
order of reference. This Tribunal duly gave its award on 25th January 
1956 regarding the dispute, and it was published in the ‘‘Calcutta Gazette’, 
dated 23rd February 1956. After its publication, the Municipal Authorities 
wanted certain clarification regarding the decision of the Tribunal on the 
above issue No. (4). So, the Government by its order No. 2785Dis./1)/ 
141,.-8/56, dated 25th June 1956, referred to this Tribunal for decision the 
following questions: 


(1) Whether under issue No. (4) of the said award the workmen are 
to be confirmed, after six months’ probationary period with 
benefits or without benefits. 


(2) Whether under the said issue, the conservancy menials, who work 
under ‘‘No work no pay’’ system, are also to be similarly con- 
firmed? If so, how? 


I am, therefore, required to give my decision on the questions. But 
1 doubt very much, if the Tribunal has got anything to do after the award 
is made and published in the Gazette. It seems that the Tribunal becomes 
functus officio after making a complete award, and has no power to clarify 
or interpret the award. This was the view taken in some cases, and the 
decisions in Pampa River Factory (1952 J..A.C., 591) and Kamdar, ۰ 
(1952. (ii) 11.7. 192] might be cited in this connection. Very recently, it 
has been held also in the case of Rajruani Transport, Ltd. versus Collector 
of Frichinapalli (1956 1 M.L.J., page 222), which has been printed also 
in notes portion (xci) of Calcutta Weekly Notes, volume LX, dated 7th May 
1956, that once an award has heen published in the Gazette, the Tribunal 
can do nothing further with the award—it has no power to alter, modify, 
clarify or even interpret the award. The State Government has made the 
present reference for interpretation of the award, presumably acting under 
rule 20A of the Bengal Industrial Disputes Rules) 1947. By notification 
No. 5268Dis./1)/1R-3(A)/54, dated 18th November 1954, the aforesaid 
rule 20A was inserted in the Bengal Industrial Disputes Rules, 1947. The 


ےا 


part [I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 3257 
i . 


Tribunal does uot hke to suy anything regarding the propriety or otherwise 
of the said rule, nor does it want to muke ‘any observation as to whether 
that rule 18 consistent with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


Though I am doubttul if the Tribunal can be required to offer inter- 
yretation of the award, 1 propose to consider the questions referred to the 
{ribunal, and give my decision on the same as desired by the Government. 
Notiee on both parties to appear before the Tribunal was duly given, and 
] had the advantage of hearing the arguments made by the learned 
representatives of both sides. 


Question No. 1.—While dealing with issue No. (4)—probationary 
period of workmen, this Tribunal observed as follows: 


“The demand of the Union is that on putting three months’ satis- 
factory services, every workman be made permanent with all the 
benefits, to which a permanent worker is entitled. The Municipality 
resists this demand by saying that no question of probationary period 
arises at all in case of methors or sweepers, as they are treated as con- 
servancy menials. I find no substance in this contention of the Muni- 
cipality. J direct that a worker should be confirmed, if found honest 
and satisfactory after a probationary period of six months.’’ 


It will be thus clear from the above observation that the Tribunal held 
that the workmen, who will be confirmed and made permanent after a proba- 
tionary period of six months, will get all the benefits, to which a permanent 
worker 18 entitled. This question is answered accordingly. 


Question No, 2.—In deciding the said issue No. (4) the Tribunal over- 
ruled the contention of the Municipality to the contrary, and was of the 
view that methors or sweepers, who were conservancy menials, fell also with- 
in the category of workmen concerned in the issue. So, according to the 
award, the conservancy menials would be entitled to be similarly confirmed. 
The first portion of this question Is answered thus. 


Regarding the last portion of question No. 2, I think that it does not 
call for any decision from this Tribunal. It is up to the Municipal 
authorities to decide whether they would confirm or discharge such con- 
servancy menials after a probationary period of six months. It will be 
quite open to the Municipality to discharge such of them, who are not 
found honest and satisfactory after this probationary period. Grant or 
refusal of leave to the conservancy menials during the probationary period 
will, however, be at the discretion of the Municipal authorities. It will be 
for the said authorities to decide also whether the period of leave taken by 
such conservancy menials beyond they were entitled to, should be treated 
continuity or break of service for calculating their probationary period as 
fixed under the award. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. ۲۰1, 
Judge. 
21-7-56. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 2156 July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. শি, | MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Regéstered No. C207 


Calrutta Gazrtir 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1956 


a 
ওমা 
০ 


PART lA—Orders and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general information. Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published inthe “Gazette of India” are only 
republished. 

IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF 
INDIA, CALCUTTA 


Appeals Nos. Cal,-107 and 111 of 1955 


Bhartia Electric Steel Co., Lid., Calcutta ... Appellants, 
versus 
Sharitia Tron and Steel Workers’ Union, Calcutta .. Respondents. 


In the matter of appeals against the award of Shri M. N. Gan, Judge, 
Second Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, which was published in the 
‘Calcutta Cazette’’, dated 17th March 1955, in respect of an industrial 
dispute between the above parties. 


Dated, the 5th April 1956 


PRESENT : 
Suri A. DAS ایی‎ President. 
Suri ১, টি. SINGH, Afember. 


7 
Appearances: 


For the Appellants: Shri B. P. Khaitan, Shri S. .کا‎ Bose, Bar.-at-Law, 
Shri P. R. Bagri, Director, Shri N. K. Saraf and Shri K. P. Mukherjee. 


For the Respondent: Shri Ram Sen. 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry: Iron and Steel. 


DECISION 


By Government of West Bengal, Lahour Department, order Na. 1989- 
Dis. /D/10L-10/54, dated 7th April 1954, five items of industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Bhartia Iron and Steel, Ltd., and their workmen, repre- 
sented by Bhartia Iron and Steel, Ltd. Workers’ UWnion, 249 Bowbazar 
Street, Calcuita, were referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial 
Tribunal, West Bengal. 


The Tribunal gave its award which was published m the Calcutta 
Gazette, dated 1761) March 1955. The items of industrial dispute for 
adjudication were— 

(1) Increment. 

(2) Bonus tor 1953. : 


(3) Whether Shri Ram and Shri Bishwanath are surplua ہا‎ the 
Jompany'’s tequirements for crane drivers. 


(4) Night shift allowance. 
(5) Duty hours of lorry drivers, 


92 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 07 


০০৩ 


The Tribunal decided issues 1, 3 and 4 against the workmen and awarded 
1/8th of the total basic wages of the year 1953 as bonus and fixed the duty 
hours of the lorry drivers according to the provisions of the Motor Vehicles 
Act. The Company which appears to have denied its liability for bonus 
for 1953, has appealed against the decision on the issue of bonus. This is 
appeal No. Cal.-107 of 1955. The workmen’s appeal (appeal No. Cal.-111 
of 1955) is directed against the award on all the issues. These two appeals 
arising out of one and the same award have been heard together. We shall 
consider the appeals of both the parties on bonus last. 


The first point, we proposed to take up, relates to increment. The 
workmen demand ad hoc increment of Rs. 10 per month of the basic wages 
of all categories of workers and employees اٹ‎ effect from 2nd June 1953, 
i.e., the date of the submission of the charter of demand, 11) consideration 
of their low wages. The workmen also urge in support of their demand that 
no increment has been given for years together. The Company opposes the 
demand and pleads that the wages paid to the workmen of the concern are 
not low as compared to that paid in comparable industries in the region. 
The Company grants increments to deserving workers in recognition of 
their efficiency. Although this Tribunal has all along appreciated the 
importance of periodical increments as an incentive for better and efficient 
work, it has consistently discouraged ad hoc increments where there are no 
fixed grades and scales of pay for the workmen. The Union complains that 
iucrements at the discretion of the employers for efficiency encourages 
discrimination. In the absence of specific cases of discrimination, we 
shall not be justified to speculate and in the case of Messrs. Simbhauli 
Industries, Ltd., where some workers were rewarded by increments, this 
Tribunal held that there was no justification to increase the wages of all 
workmen. Management’s right to reward increments of efficiency cannot be 
interfered with. The remedy against such apprehended discrimination 
does not lie in ad hoc increments to all workmen. The lower Tribunal 
was perfectly justified in rejecting the demand of the workmen on this 
point. 


The third issue 18, whether Shri Ram and Shri Bishwanath are surplus 
to the Company’s requirements as crane drivers. For a correct apprecia- 
tion of the issue and the findings thereon with a view to ascertain whether 
the decision admits of any appeal, a short résumé of the facts which relate 
10 the dispute may be relevant. Tho undisputed facts are that these two 
grane drivers were found surplus to requirements and were served with a 
notice terminating their services on the 10th August 1953, but immediately 
after the service of the notice and before the actual termination of their 
services, when it was realised that conciliation proceedings were pending 
and the necessary permission had not been obtained from the Conciliation 
Officer, the notice was not enforced, and two workers were allowed to 
continue in their work as spare crane drivers till December 1958, when they 
were transferred to the electric furnace department. They refused to work 
in the electric furnace department and were charge-sheeted and suspended 
for four days, for wilful and persistently refusing the work. Qn expiry 
of the period of suspension they were permitted to resume their duties in 
the electric furnace department. The Company thereupon applied to the 
Conciliation Officer for permission to retrench these two workmen, but this 
application has not been disposed of. Shri Ram applied for sick leave on 
the 17th December 19538, but the Company doubting the bona fides of this 
application, asked him to appear before the Works Medical Officer for 
examination, by a letter, dated 18th December 1953. He did not respond 
to the said letter. Both these two workmen continued absenting ene 
selves, and the Company’s case is that by absenting themselves without 
notice, they must be presumed to have abandoned the services of the 
Company. The workmen on the other hand plead that the transfer to 
impossible duties was intended to force them to go out of work and was 
an act of unfair labour practice. Be whatever that might have been, the 
fact remains that the order of the reference called upon the Adjudicator 
to decide whether these two workmen were surplus to requirements as crane 
drivers. They were not discharged as surplus to requirements. They were 
transferred. This does not amougt to retrenchment. Without termination 
of the services of the employee by the employer there cannot be retrench- 
ment. Retrenchment is one of the specific appealable items listed under 
section 7(1)(b) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950. 
The order of reference calls upon the adjudicator to decide whether these 
two workmen were surplus to requirements as crane drivers. Although 
surplusage is one of the direct causes of retrenchment, the question about 
surplusage of workers in the abstract is not appealable, unless there is 
either actual retrenchment. In the instant case, the notice of retrenchment 
was not acted upon. The decision of the management that these two 
workers were surplus to requirements as crane drivers, was followed by a 
transfer of these workers to other departments. The events which followed 
the transfer of these workers from the department of crane drivers 
to the electric furnace department raise the question whether they were 
dismissed by the management, rightly or wrongly, or they themselves 
abandoned their services with the Company. These questions are not 
covered by the order of reference, and the learned Tribunal did not consider 
this point. In the circumstances of the present case, the findings of the 


[Pang 1A 


Party | 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


learned Adjudicator that these two workers were surplus to requirements as 
crane drivers, does not admit of any appeal. The workmen's appeal on 
this point is accordingly rejected as incompetent. 


Next we come to the question of night shift allowance. The Union’s 
case is that extra night shift allowance was in existence before 1948, and 
that this allowance was withdrawn and discontinued, although the Major 
Mngineering Tribunal did not purport by its award to curtail the existing 
benefits. This is denied by the Company. The claim for night shiit 
allowance came before the First Major Engineering Tribunal. The learned 
Tribunal while rejecting the workmen’s claim for night shift allowance, 
appears to have considered the facts that some firms were payimg a small 
allowance for night shift works. The Tribunal’s finding was that such 
payments were only war-time measures. The present firm and _ these 
workmen were parties to the Adjudication proceedings, but there is nothing 
in the award that they claimed the benefits otherwise than as a war-time 
measure. The direction of the Engineering Tribunal under issue No. 12, 
clearly shows that payment of night shift allowance as a war-time measure 
was ignored and the claim of the workers was rejected without reservation. 
The observation of the Engineering Tribunal under the head that the 
‘application of the award’’, did not safeguard the night shift allowance 
as a war-time measure. The relevant observation of the Engineering 
Tribunal on which Shri Rain Sen, relies, reads as follows :— 


“This award will not affect adversely any other kind of existing 
advantage which the employees of a firm may be enjoying in excess of 
the benefits given by this award, unless an express provision has been 
made in this award concerning such advantage.’’ 


The Engineering Tribunal gave a definite direction on the demand about 
night shift allowance. This Tribunal has consistently discouraged special 
allowance for night shift work, where workers are employed, as in the 
present concern, in day and night by rotation. The workmen’s appeal on 
this point is also rejected. 


Now we come to the issue of the duty hours of the lorry drivers. It is 
not a specific appealable item under section 7(1)(b) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. o appeal is competent on this point unless it is shown 
that a substantial question of law is involved, but Shri Ram Sen could 
not make out any such substantial question law. The appeal is on this 
point accordingly rejected as incompetent. 


Lastly we come to the question of bonus. This is a public limited 
Company. The workmen claimed bonus both as a condition of service and 
a legitimate share in the profits. The claim has been laid at 24 months’ 
wages for monthly paid workers, 65 days’ wages for daily-rated workers 
less what has been received by the workers as advance during Pujas. 


The Company denies that bonus had ever been a condition of service 
and trading result does not warrant any bonus. The Company, however, 
pleads that the workers had been offered bonus during conciliation proceed- 
ings, in spite of unsatisfactory trading results, 35‘days’ basic wages as bonus 
have been paid to.the workers, as a gesture of goodwill. The Company 
now withdraws this offer on the ground that it was not accepted by the 
workmen and the industrial dispute between the parties was not settled 
during conciliation proceedings. 


The learned Adjudicator has awarded bonus to the workmen equivalent 
to one-eighth of their respective total wage of the year. Both the work- 
men and the Company have appealed against the award of the Adjudicator. 
The workmen fall back upon their original demand, while the Company 
pleads financial inability to pay bonus. We do not propose to enter into 
the question whether bonus can be claimed as a condition of service, for 
even assuming that it can be so claimed, there is not material on the record 
to warrant a decision either way. Although the ex gratia theory of bonus 
has long been exploded, it has been established that on principles of social 
justice the claim of the workmen would arise only if there is a surplus, 
after making “provision for prior charges, for distribution among the 
workmen as bonus. The Hon'ble Supreme Court observed in the case of the 
Muir Mill, Ltd., 1955, 1. LIT. page 1, that ‘it is, therefore, clear that the 
claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the 
joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned 
profits’, 


The learned Adjudicator has relied on the published balance sheet of 
the Company, and we have no reason to differ from him on this point, 
The surplus profits available for distribution for bonus to the workmen have 
got to be determined with reference to this balance sheet. Both parties 
appeared to have submitted before the Tribunal their estimatés of the 
available surplus and we need hardly say that these estimates differ widely. 
I’xhibits 1 to 1(b) are the estimates of the workmen about capital invested 
in the business, income-tax payable for the year and depreciation permia- 
sible under the Income-tax Act. Exhibit 4 ia the estimate about the 
surplus of profits available for distribution to the workmen as bonus. 
লিন A(6) to A(7) are the estimates of the Company. According to 


923 


804 


THE CAILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


Shri Khaitan who: represents the Company, after providing of all the prior 
charges uccording to the accepted Full Bench Formula, there would be a 
deficit of about Rs. 3,60,000 in the year 1953, while the workmen contend 
that there would be uo surplus of nearly 15. 3,87,000 out of the trading 
profits of the year, leaving out about Rs. 53,000 brought forward from the 
previous year. We are not very much concerned with the outstanding 
balance of the profits of the previous year. 


In 1952, the Company voluntarily paid bonus to the workmen equi- 
valent to 2 months’ basic wages, but in 19583 only Rs. 76,000 was paid as 
bonus. In 1953, the yvross profit after appropriation of Rs. 6,00,000 as 
depreciation wus Rs. 9,32,815 as against Its. 11,238,581 in 1942 after 
appropriation of Hs. 5,00,000 as depreciation. In both these years the gross 
profit was arrived at before making any provision for income-tax. 


The learned Adjudicator has allowed the workmen bonus equivalent 
to one-eighth of the anuual basic wage less what had been voluntarily paid. 
We are called upon to decide if the trading result of the Company for 
1953 can bear the additional burden and also if further increase is 
warranted. 


We have already pointed out that both the Company and the workmen 
appear to have submitted before the Adjudicator statements indicating, 
in their own way, the permissible deductions from the gross profits for the 
purposes of ascertaining the surplus available for distribution of bonus. 
The Company has claimed as a prior charge arrear depreciation of the 
previous years, the statutory depreciation permissible under the Income-tax 
Act, income-tax payable on the balance of the gross profit after deducting 
the depreciation, return on the share capital at 6 per cent. and return at 
4 per cent, on the reserve which is said to have been utilised as working 
capital during the accounting year. 


The Union’s contention is that for the purpose of the Full Bench 
Formula, initial and additional depreciations, although a permissible 
deduction under the Income-tax Act, cannot rank as a prior charge. The 
Union also disputes the Company’s claim for arrear depreciation and for 
return of the hae capital and the working capital at the rates claimed. 


The Company with a view to modernise the rolling mill department has 
spent Rs. 23,29,977 in block and Rs. 1,16,082 in stores at Khardah and 
the evidence shows that the Khardah block did not operate in 1953. The 
I)irectors’ report, dated 2ud July 1954, shows that the Khardah block was 
expected to start after three or four months. 


The Company did not provide for any depreciation of the Khardah 
block up to 1952, nor did it provide full depreciation from 1948 to 1962 
even on the blockthat was in operation during the period. The Company 
has claimed the arrear depreciation for the years 1948 to 1952 amounting 
to Rs. 12,85,743 and Rs. 2,43,291 for 1953 in four equal instalments. 
Deduction of arrear depreciation from the account of a subsequent year is 
allowed by the Income-tax Act and the rules framed thereunder only 
under circumstances indicated in proviso (b) under section 2(b)(vi) of the 
Act. In the years 1948 to 1952 the Company earned considerable profits 
and large reserves were accumulated and these accumulations were utilised 
in bonus shares. If the arrears of depreciation in such circumstances 
are allowed as a prior charge out of the profits for the subsequent years 
the workers will be deprived of their due shares in the prosperity of 
concern which they have earned. We reject the Company’s claim for arrear 
depreciation as a prior charge on the trading profits of 1953. A similar 
view was taken in Lakshmi Ratan Cotton Mills, Ltd., reported in 1954, 
LAC, p. 716. Shri Khaitan referred to the decision in the Hastern 
Chemicals Co., Ltd. (1954, I. LLJ, p. 818). In this case the Company 
could not on account of unsatisfactory trading result, provide for depre- 
ciation in past years and sought to recoup the arrear depreciation from 
the trading profits of 1950, 1951. It was decided that provision for arrear 
depreciation should be gradually made. The facts of the case are different 


- from the facts of the case under consideration. The Income-tax Act 


prescribes depreciation under three heads: 


(1) Normal depreciation. 
(11) Initial depreciation. 
(111) Additional depreciation. 


Rule 8 of the rules framed under the Income-tax Act as amended by 
notification No. 31-[.T. of 15th May 1948 limits the annual depreciation 
for buildings, plants and machineries, ete., only to the period of their 
user. As the Khardah block did not operate in 1952 and 1953 the 
Company is not entitled to any annual depreciation for this block for 1953. 
But 36110016918 from the departmental notes incorporated in the Income- 
tax Manual (10th edition, p. 450), that the change in the rule which was 
necessitated by some decisions of the High Courts allowing full depreciation 
for buildings, plants and machineries without any regard whether they 
had been used in the previous year or not, does not affect the initial 
depreciation which should be allowed in full for the whole year in all cases. 
Thus under the Income-tax Act, the Company is not entitled, ag an item of 


{Pawr TA 


سمسو وی _. ক্র * ক‏ اسلمنہ 


part IA] 


THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


2h 


০ rat TD 


permissible deduction, to normal depreciation for the Khardah block, but 
the Company may fairly claim for the purpose of income-tax initial depre- 
ciation for the new construction of buildings and new installation of plants 
aud machineries for the Khardah block in 1953 under section 10(2)(v1) 
clauses (a) to (০), The question is whether this initial depreciation is a 
০ deduction as a prior charge under the Full Bench Bonus 
formula. 


The Union relying on the Full Bench decision in the Electricity Supply 
Industry, reported in 1955, LAC, p. 665, urges that the Company is not 
entitled to initial an additional depreciation under the Full Bench Bonus 
Formula. This contention of the Union deserves careful consideration. 
In the Full Bench case of the Millowners’ Association, Bombay, this 
Tribunal was not called upon to decide whether for the purpose of bonus 
formula, depreciation is permissible under all the three heads, initial, 
normal and additional, as indicated under the Income-tax Act. What was 
required for the bonus formula was the annual requirement for rehabilita- 
tion, replacements and modernisation of buildings and machineries. In 
fact the quantum of bonus appropriated in the past and accumulated has 
no direct bearing on the bonus formula, except for the purpose of ascer- 
taining what sum of money was available for rehabilitation and moderni- 
sation. The quantum of permissible depreciation for the accounting year 
is relevant nate for the purpose of income-tax to be provided out of the 
trading profits of the year, and for ascertaining what additional sum of 
money is to be provided for rehabilitation, etc. It may be noted that 
where the trading profit of a year does not permit any additional provision 
beyond the permissible depreciation for the year, the depreciation has got 
to be ascertained and allowed as a prior charge. Absence of any specific 
indication in this direction in the Full Bench decision in the Bombay 
Millowners’ case created some confusion and different benches held different 
views, The second Full Bench was constituted to decide the issue of bonus 
in some units of the Electricity Supply Industry and this point was 
clarified in 1955, LAC, p. 659, at pp. 678-79, as indicated below: 


“Under the Income-tax Act, the initial depreciation and addi- 
tional depreciation in the early years raise the quantum of deprecia- 
tion very considerably, to the detriment of the available surplus. 
Considering that the initial depreciation and additional depreciation 
are allowed in the main so that on monies utilised for purchases in 
augmentation of the block a relief in income-tax results, it is evident 
that considerations which apply to the grant of initial and additional 
depreciation are different to the considerations of social justice and fair 
appointment which formed the basis of the Full Bench Formula. 
Benches of this Tribunal held different views on the subject of initial 
and additional depreciation. But considering that the initial and 
additional depreciation are an abnormal addition to the income-tax 
depreciation designed to meet particular contingencies and for a 
limited period, it would not be fair to the workmen that these two 
depreciations should be rated as prior charges before the available 
surplus is ascertained, for in many cases, if allowed, there would be 
no available surplus left, even though the workmen may have laboured 
during the year to the best of their ability and the concern was for all 
purposes prosperous. Upon a careful consideration of the matter we 
are of the view that only normal depreciation, including multiple shift 
depreciation, but not initial or additional depreciation, should rank as 
৪ prior charge in applying our Full Bench Formula.”’ 


We accordingly hold that the initial and additional depreciation cannot 
rank as a prior charge for the purpose of ascertaining the surplus available 
out of the trading profit of a year for distribution as bonus to the workmen. 


For the purposes of calculation of the annual allowance for rehabuili- 
tation, ett., the main block, namely, the buildings, plants and machineries 
(excluding the new block at Khardah) may be classified as under :— 


TI. (a) Buildings at the end of 1947— 


Rs. 
(i) Non-factory 7 fee 7 27450 
(11) Factory - 5 ... 6,46,729 
۱ Total ... 6,74,179 

(b) Addttional exclusions of Khardah block— 7 

৪. 

(1) 1948 - 7 a Nil 
(81) 1949 or - ... 1,5 
(11) 1950 -۰ -۰ ... 2,06,279 
(iv) 1951 ae -- ১১১74500] 
(৮) 1952 mee 7 as 40,720 
(vi) 1963 -٦۰ - a [,7 
Total we 4,42,152 


Grand Total 0100 


GER ORR 


226 THE CAILCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 [Parr lA 
SSS, 
II. Plants and machinery excluding portions sold— 
Rs. 
(a) At the end of 1947 ve 7 ১১০18১12410 
(৮) Additions exclusion of Khardah block— 
Rs. 
1948 -7٦ ne بج یف‎ My ty lie 
1949 ۰ ve wee 26251 
1950 7 ae ... 6,85,167 
1951 7 2 ১০০45119841 
1952 ۰ ٦ vee 8,09,681 
1953 ٦ 7 ... 4 


Total +. 23,838,912 
Grand Total ... 41,96,322 


Shri Khaitan prayed that the rehabilitation charges might be cal- 
culated on the principle adopted in the case of Messrs. Saxby & Farmer 
(India), Ltd., reported in 1955, LAC, p. 707, and filed before us a chart 
indicating the particulars required for the scheme. We are not inclined to 
accept the chart at this stage. In the case of Messrs. Saxby & Farmer 
(India), Ltd., there was specific evidence when different plants and 
machineries actually came into existence and also about their initial cost, 
their age and the fluctuation in the price since they were installed. There 
is no such evidence on any of the points in the present case. Shri Khaitan 
prayed that an opportunity might be given to him to place positive evidence 
on the relevant points and that the case might be remanded to the Primary 
Tribunal, if that was deemed necessary for the purpose, We do not accede 
to the prayer. The claim is for bonus for 1953, and now we are in 1956. 
No new principle was Jaid down in the case of Saxby & Farmer (India), 
Ltd. The Full Bench Formula laid down in the case of Millowners’ 
Association, Bombay, was followed. In all, bonus cases the cost of rehahi- 
litation of buildings, plants and machineries which ranks first as a prior 
charge on the gross profit of the industry should be ascertained and it is 
the duty of the parties concerned to place before a Tribunal all the relevant 
রি for calculation of the rehabilitation cost as accurately as possible. 
This was possible jn the case of Messrs. Saxby & Farmer (India), Ltd., 
because all the relevant materials were placed on the record and there was 
sufficient evidence for definite findings on all the relevant points that were 
necessary to calculate the annual requirements which were to be deducted 
from the trading profit of the Company per year for the purpose of rehabi- 
litation. The Company could not make out before us a sufficient case for 
a remand. The Company could place necessary evidence before the 
Adjudicator, but this was not dene. We are not inclined either to call 
for further evidence before us or to remand the case to the Primary 
Tribunal for further evidence. Although we feel the importance of 
rehabilitation allowance as a prior charge on the gross profit of a year for 
the purpose of the bonus formula, we are afraid that we are not in a 
position to work out correctly the exact requirements. The importance 
of setting apart some portion of the profit out of the revenue of the business 
of every year for Rael acinar and rehabilitation of plants, machinery and 
buildings cannot be exaggerated. It has been rightly observed in the Full 
Bench case (1952, LAC, p. 433). ‘‘It is essential that the plant and 
machinery should be kept continuously in good working order for the 
purpose of خر شا‎ that return, and such maintenance of plant and 
machinery would also be to the advantage of labour, for the better the 
machinery, the larger the earnings, and the better the chance of securing 
a good bonus. The first charge on the gross profits should, therefore, be 
the amount of money that would be necessary for rehabilitation, replace- 
ment and modernisation of machinery. As depreciation allowed by the 
Income-tax authorities is only a percentage of the written down value, the 
fund set apart yearly for depreciation and designated under that head 
would not fe sufficient for these purposes. An extra amount would have to 
be annually set apart to make up that deficit.’”’ The primary duty of the 
Industrial Tribunal is to establish peace in the industry between the 
employers and the workmen, but for settlement of an industrial dispute 
with a view to establish industrial peace, it should not lose sight of the 
interest of the industry. Any settlement of dispute ignoring the interest 
of the industry is likely to have a far reaching detrimental reaction on the 
workmen themselves. To deny rehabilitation and replacement cost would 
be to cut short the life of an industry with the result that the workmen 
employed in the industry would be thrown out of employment and add 
complications to the question of unemployment which is gradually increas- 
ing in volume. 


Part IA] 


THE CAICSUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


We may in this connectiop quote the observation of the Full Bench of 
this Tribunal in the case of 7 Millowners’ Association, Bombay, “having 
regard to the uncertain tendency of the price level of. machinery, we 
think that a liberal estimate should be adopted.’’ In the absence of any 
positive evidence about the relation between the present value and the 
initial cost in different years prior of 1948 of buildings, plants and machi- 
neries, we cannot but act upon what has hitherto been generally followed 
for calculating rehabilitation charges. 16 cannot be denied that the present 
value of the buildings, plants and machineries has considerably increased 
since the pre-war period and the period immediately following the cessation 
of the second war. The requirement for rehabilitation is calculated on 
the present day price level te is obtained by multiplying the cost price 
by a co-efficient which indicates the ratio of the rise. It has become a 
convention with this Tribunal to multiply the cost of buildings constructed 
prior to 1948 by 2.25 and the cost of کے‎ and machineries installed prior 
to 1948 by 2.7 for the purpose of equating the requirement to the present 
market value. It has also been a convention with the Industrial Tribunals 
to assess the total life at 27 to 30 years in case of buildings and 15 years 
in the case of plants and machineries. We do feel that these conventions 
are not always favourable to the industries. But there is no help. 


We may safely infer from the Directors’ report on the trading result 
9 1948 that this indusiry has completed 20 years of its age at the end of 
1948. We may accordingly presume, in the absence of any evidence, that 
the construction of buildings and installation of plants and machineries in 
use on Ist January 1948 leaving out what have since been 9010 away and 
replaced since then were spread over during these 20 years and we may 
safely say that these buildings, plants and machineries had spent on 8184 
December 1953, at least 10 years of their life on an average. Thus for the 
buildings and plants and machineries that were in existence and were in 
use on Ist January 1948, we may fix the residuary life at 20 years and 5 
years, respectively. In calculating the total rehabilitation requirements, 
5 per cent. of the cost price as breakdown value must be deducted. The 
annual requirements fur rehabilitation and replacement of مان‎ eck and 

( 


plants and machineries brought in use in different periods may be indicated 
in a tabular form. 


I. Buildings 


Yoar. Original cost Total replace- Broak- Residuary Rehabilitation 
(in lakhs of ment cost down life (in রাত for 
rupees). required at value lakhs of the year (in 
present day (in lakhs Re.). lakhs of Ra.). 
value (in of Rs.). 
lakhe of Re.). 
1 8 4 ৮ 9 
Up to 9196 December 1947 4 12-92 -29 20 -63 
1)48 ns لا ہے‎ হর টানি ae oe 
1949 -۰ ৮০020 1-20 6ء‎ 26 * 04 
1950 - ~» 2:06 2.06 0ء‎ 27 *07 
1951 7 نف‎ শা 14 “04 28 -03 
1952 - و‎ ۰1 ٠۰1 02 99 ۰01 
1953 ee ee 9 33ء‎ - 06 30 * 004 


Il. Plants and Machinerses 


Up to 3186 Decomber 1947 18-12 48 .2 91 5 9-60 
1948 7 ১৮ 2,78 2-78 “14 10 ১26 
1949 090,۳ 2-88 14 11 24 
1950 7: 0907 6-85 34 12 54 
1961 7 ےت‎ ٘ 9 4:72 24 18 34 
1952 + 090۵۸ 80 VW 14 ২. *23 
1953 293-0 07 32 -16 15 ১2] 

90.23 12-204 


The liquid money of the Company which can be utilised for rehabilita- 
tion consists of Rs. 10 lakhs as general reserve and depreciation appro- 
priated and accumulated up to 3186 December 1952 on account of buildings, 
plants and machineries Rs. 30 lakhs. Deducting from the total require- 
ment in column 3 of the foregoing table the sum of Its, 40,00,000 available 
for the purpose of rehabilitation, the balance required is Rs. 50.23 lakhs. 
We have found that when the actual total requirement for rehabilitation is 
Rs. 90.28 lakhs, the annual charge works out to Ra. 12.23 lakhs. Now 
that the requirement reduced by the available lquid money is only 
Rs. 50.23 lakhs, the annual charge will be reduced to Rs, 6.66 lakhs 
(approximately). 


124 


328 


THE CAIQUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


The annual depreciation including the multiple shift depreciation on 
the written down value of the blocks (buildings, plants and machineries) 
in operation in*1952 leaving out the Khardah block which was not in use 
works out to Rs. 40,950 for buildings and Rs. 2,90,892 for plants and 
machineries. There were some additions in 1989, but that is no evidence 
when these additions came into existence and for what period they were 
used. We have not accordingly allowed any depreciation for these 
additions. We need hardly repeat that depreciation for the accounting 
year has no material bearing except for the purpose of working out the 
income-tax. The tota] depreciation for the year 1953 permissible under the 
Full Bench Formula for buildings, plants and machineries works out to 
Rs. 3.381 lakhs. It appears that the Tariff Board requires the concern to 
set apart every year an additional sum of Rs. 30,000 on account of partial 
rehabilitation of the electric furnaces. The total depreciation works to 
Rs. 3.61 lakhs. 


Gross profit as per balance sheet in 1953 is Rs. 9.33 lakhs. This was 
arrived at after deducting Rs. 6.30 lakhs as depreciation. If we add back 
this amount, the gross profit would be 18. 15.63 lakhs. Deducting 
Ra. 3.31 lakhs as depreciation permissible under the Full Bench Formula, 
the taxable amount is Rs. 12.31 lakhs. An additional sum of Rs. .380 lakh 
has to be provided per annum under the directions of the Tariff Board on 
account of partial rehabilitation of the electric furnaces. This will leave 
Rs, 12.01 lakhs. Income-tax on this amount at 6.95 as in the rupee works 
out to Re. 5.25 lakhs approximately. After making provision for income- 
tax, there will be left Rs. 6.77 lakhs. Out of this amount, the annual 
charge of rehabilitation should be টো The annual rehabilitation 
requirement, after deducting the total depreciation provided for the year is 
Rs. 3.05 lakhs (Rs. 6.66 lakhs minus Rs. 3.61 lakhs). The depreciation 
provided for the year represents partial rehabilitation requirement for the 


year. 


The share capital is Rs. 50,00,000 and a major portion of this is made 
up of bonus share. The recent trend is to treat bonus and cash shares at 
par and to allow return on both cash shares and bonus shares at 6 per cent. 
per annum except where such shares came into existence in the accounting 
year in which case a lower rate of dividend is allowed without any dis- 
tinction between bonus and cash shares. In the present case, the bonus 
shares came into existence prior to 1953, but out of the bonus shares 
Rs. 24.46 lakhs appears to have been employed for the Khardah block 
which was unproductive at least till the end of 1953. We are definitely of 
the opinion that dividend should be allowed at 6 per cent. on the balance 
of Rs. 25.54 lakhs (Rs. 50 lakhs minus Rs. 24.46 lakhs). This works out 
to Rs. 1.53 lakhs. Rupees 10 lakhs in the general reserve and Rs. 6.88 lakhs 
being the balance of the Taxation reserve (after deducting advance pay- 
ments of Rs. 14.67 lakhs) came up to a total of Rs. 16.88 lakhs. This 
amount appears to have been employed during the accounting year as 
working capital. The Company is entitled to return on this amount at 
4 per cent. This works out to Rs. 76 lakhs. After providing these amounts 
out of the gross profit of the year 1953 there will be left only Rs. 1.45 lakhs. 
This will be clear from the following table :— 


Rs. 
Lakhs. 
Gross profits 4 হন .. 9.383 
Add—Back depreciation a ۰ ... 0 
15.63 
Deduct—Depreciation 7 ne .. 1 
12.32 
Deduct—Annual requirement for partial rehabilita- 
tion of electric furnaces as required by Tariff Board ১30 
12.02 
Deduct—Income-tax ae ae ہی‎ 5 
6.77 
Deduct—Rehabilitation (Rs. 6.66—-3.61 lakhs) ১,905 
3.72 
Deduct—))ividend on Rs. 25.54 lakhs (Rs. 50 lakhs 
—HKs. 24.46 lakhs) at 6 per cent. ae ہی‎ 8 
۱ 2.19 
Deduct-—Return on Rs. 16.88 lakhs (reserves utilised 
as working capital) at 6 per cent, 7 ار تد‎ 


[Parr ا(‎ 


Past IA] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 23, 0 


59 


৯৯ 


As we could understand an the course of the arguments that the total 
basic wage bill of the workmen amounts to approximately Rs. 1.20 lakhs 
per বি If the workmen are paid 14 months’ basic wage as bonus 
the total amount of bonus will be Rs. 1.80 lakhs. Rupees .76 lakh has 
nlready been paid to the workmen as bonus. “Thus if 14 months’ basic wage 
is paid as bonus an edditionél amount of Rs. 1.04 lakhs will be required. 
The Company will be entitled to refund of income-tax on this additional 
payment Thus it is clear that the Company can bear the additional 

urden imposed by the award on account of bonus. 


We shall not be justified to increase the bonus as demanded by the 
Union. We may in this connection repeat the observations in the Full 
Bench case, ‘‘After the aforesaid deductions there remains a surplus and 
the issue is whether the employees are entitled to any, and if so, te what 
bonus. The answer to this issue is not easy, for we have to consider in 
this context, the needs of the employees, the claims of the share-holders 
and the requirements of the industry’’. 


The Adjudicator’s decision on the issue of bonus is affirmed. 


ORDER 
The appeals are dismissed. Parties shall bear their own costa. 


A. DAS GUPTA, President. 
S. B. SINGH, Member. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE 
DIVISION) 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


New Delhi, the Ist August 1956 


INCOME-TAX E\STABLISHMENTS 


121. On transfer from Patiala, Shri 5. Narayan 
has heen posted ag Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax, Range VI, Calcutta, with 
oo from the 14th July 1956, ৮566 Shri S. N 

y. 


* * * بب ® 


123. On return from leave, Shri Amjad 
Hussain, Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, “B’? Range, Bombay, has been post- 
ed as Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of 
Income-tax, Range VII, Calcutta, with effect 


from the 116) July 1956, vice Shri .ا‎ N. 
Banerjee. : 


~” 


New Delhi, the 3lst July 1956 


No. 115.—Shri V. Gopinathan, Appellate Assis- 
tant Commissioner of Income-tax, I Range, 
Calcutta, was appointed as Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, H Range, Calcutta, 
in addition to his own duties with effect from the 
21st May 1956 during the period of Shri G. Misra’s 
absence on leave. 


Shri G. Misra, Appellate Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax, H Range, Calcutta, resumed 
charge, of that range in the afternoon of 18th 
June 1956 after the expiry of his leave, relieving 
Shri V. Gopinathan, Appellate Assistant Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax I Range, Calcutta, of the 
additional charge. 


P. S. KAICKER, Under Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


Calrutta 


تھے ہمد ہد ہے سے وریہ نمس مہےہوےموسممورں ےس سے جورووم পপি এ‏ 
سس یں 
سمسموسے 


Gazrtiv 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1956 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


UNIVERSITY OF CALCUTTA. 
RESULTS OF THE OIPLOMA 1৭ LANGUAGE 
EXAMINATION, JANUARY, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 2nd April, ۰ 
The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Diploma in Language, 
held in January, 1955 in the Language under which their 
names appear :— 
University College of Arts. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
German, 
SECOND CLASS. 
Pal, Ganeschandra. 
Russian. 
FIRST CLASS. 
1 Ghosh, Birendranath. 


2 Bandyopadhyay, Prasadkumar, 
3 Bandyopadhyay, Haridas. 


SECOND CLASS. 
Adhya, Purnachandra. 
Chinese. 
FIRST CLASS. 
Basu, Ramendramohan. 
Hindi. 
SECOND CLASS, 


Raychaudhun, Anilkumar, 
N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN TUBERCULOUS 
DISEASES EXAMINATION, JANUARY, 1955. 
Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of 688۰ 


Sonate House, the 12th February, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
পা the Diploma in Tuberculous Diseases Examination, 
اہ‎ in January, 1955:— 
Caloutta Medical College. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Chaudhuri, Parbaticharan. 
Khan, Gopikrishna. > 
. 6. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations, 


RESULTS OF THE OD.T.M. & H. EXAMINATION, 
FEBRUARY, 1055. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. . 


Senate House, the 2nd April, 1955. 


undermontioned candidates are declared to have‏ کیم 
Mon the Examination for the Diploma in Tropical‏ 
ficine and Hygiene, held in Febrnary, 1955:-—~‏ 


Sohool of Tropical Medicine, Caloutta. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 


>» M. G. Manglani. 
: Das, Ajaykumar. 
4 Shesh Narayan Singh. 
ukhopadhyay, Phanindranath. 
Ye, Chandramadhab, 
1 سی‎ Asokjiban. 
Mandal, Anjlbaran. 


8 Sarkar, Bibhutibhushan. 
9 Das, Arupkumar. 
10 Comaleswaranpet Kodandapani. 
11 Majumdar, Amareskumar. 
12 Sen, Santoshkumar. 
13° Kay, Biswaranjan. 
14 Lala, Milanchandra. 
15 Das, Harihar. 
N. ©. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


RESULTS OF THE D.O.M.S. (PART 18) EXAMINATION, 
FEBRUARY, 1055. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 26th March, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidate is declared to have passed 
the Examination for the Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine 
and Surgery, Part 11, held in February, 1955:— 


Caicutta Medical College. 
Ray, Indrasekhar. 
N.C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


RESULTS OF THE :.80. (Ag.) EXAMINATION, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 11th June, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Intermediate Examination (Science) in Agricul- 
ture, held-in March, 19551 


Jhargram Raj College. 
FIRST DIVISION. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
Das, Praphulleakumar. 
Biswas, Sunilkumar. 
3 Maiti, Nagendranath, 
Gupta, Atindranath, 
Kar, Prabhatkumar. 
6 Panda, Phanibhushan. 


SECOND DIVISION. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 

Adak, Sripaticharan. 
Amrit Lal ۰ 
Bala, Nagendranath. 
Bhattacharyya, Ranjit. 
Rijoy Provash Sharma. 
Chaki, Bijankumar. 
Chanda, Harihar. 
Das, Himansusekhar. 
Das, Radhakrishna. 

10 Das, Samarendranath, 
Dattachaudhuri, Sukesranjan. 
Ghatak, Asishkumar. 
Ghosh, Kalikananda. 
Lahiri, Aseshkumar, 
Mahanti, Dharanikanta. 
Mahata, Gaurchandra. 
Mitra, Narendra, 
Modak, Kumudranjan, 
Patra, Tei ৬ 

20 Pornn, Nikhilranjan. 
Sarkar, Pabitramohan. 
Sarma, Sudhansukumar. 
Satyendra Naravan Singh Deo, 
Senchandhuri, Kajal. 
Sengupta, Arunansubikas. 

26 Tambuli, Rameskrishna,. 


THIRD DIVISION. 
1 Basu, Birendranath. 


غسہ زیخ تم শট‏ 


N. ©. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


474 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


Tae‏ ہہ شس شڈ 
ور سد می خر اصہ পি‏ ——— —_{_£_$—_— 


ware کم‎ 


RESULTS OF THE 5.٠.8.۰ EXAMINATION, PART 117 
MARCH, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 28th June, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates ore declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Diploma in Industrial 
Health, Part ,ا(‎ held in March, 1955:— 


ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE 5 AND PUBLIC 
H 


(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bhaumik, Dinendranarayan. 
Das, Jyotirmay. 
De, এ রঃ 
| Mukhopadhyay, Tarapada. 
+080 N. ©. ROY, 


Controller of Examinations. 


oe 
یب ھت سی‎ aS 


RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN 
EXAMINATION, MARCH, 1965. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the llth June, 5۰ 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
pa:.ed the Diploma صد‎ Dietetics Examination, held in 
March, 1955:— 

ALL-INOIA INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC 
HEALTH. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 

1 Sengupta, Nibharani. 

2 Kayal, Sankarnath. 

3 Malvinderjit Singh. 


DIETETICS 


N.C, ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN - NUTRITION 
EXAMINATION, PART 11) MARCH, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 28th June, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
assed the Diploma in Nutrition Examination, Part IT, 
wld in March, 1955:— 


ALL-INDIA (NSTITUTE OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC 
HEALTH. 

(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bishan Kumar Varma. 
C. Ramachandra Rao. 

Katuputur Srinivasan Krishnamurthy.‏ ؟ 
C, ROY,‏ . = 
Controller of Examinations.‏ 


SRD 


RESULTS OF THE D.P.H. EXAMINATION, PART 11, 
MARCH, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 28th June, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the D.P.H. Examination, Part IJ, held in March, 
1056 سس‎ 
ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC 

HEALTH. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Abdur Rahman. 
Babulal Verma. 
Bandyopadhyay, Gaurangalal. 
Bandyopadhyay, Nilmadhah. 
Basu, Nripendrakumar. 
Bhaduri, Bajrabhushan. 
Biswas, Sudhindrakumar, 
Chakrabarti, Saradindumohan. 
Chattopadhyay, Phanibhushan. 
10 Chattopadhyay, Tariniprasad. 
(‘haudhuri, Sunilkumar. 
Datta, Anandanarayan. 
Datta, Gautam. 
Dhanesh Prasad Sinha. 
Gunvantlal Keshavlal Trivedi. 
Gureharan Singh. 
(surdial Singh. 
Jayadish Chander Narang, 
Jagadish Nandan Singh. 
20 Jagan Nath Raina. 
Jagta Nond Lal. 
Jodh Singh Jaswal. 
John Everett Park. 
Kanshi Ram Anand. 
Krishena Vallabh Arora. 
Lahiri, Samarkumar. ' 
Lakshmi Chandra Vyas. 
Mahendra Nath Sharan Varma. 
Mitra, Bimalkumar. 
0 ae من ان‎ 
ukhopadhyay, Prabhatkumar. 
Mukund 116178176 Kekre. 
Nvapati Vasudeva Rao. 
Wadha Madhab Prasad Sinhm. 


{Parr 11 


আর্তি পচ প্রা হাস. ক: তর পভ اہووموم۔یسموسے ژسسسمموہمو مویہ سمومےتبشوجھچآے-دیچھیچھاوچھان یہ‎ 


مد 


Surkar, Sanatkumar. 
Sen, Debalkumar. 
১01812011৮8) Santoshkumar. 
Shubhindar Shah Chawla. 
Suraj Prakash Saksena. 
40 Tripathi, Brajabandhu, 
41 Venkataramanamurty Haddunuri. 


N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN MATERNITY AND 
CHILD WELFARE EXAMINATION, MARCH, 1055, 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndloate of 116 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the llth June, 1956. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Diploma in Maternity and Child Welfare 
Examination, held in March, 1955:— “ 


0٣۱۵۸ INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC‏ ۰۱ھ 
HEALTH.‏ 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.)‏ 
Basu, Renuka.‏ 
Cherian, Mary.‏ 
Jacob, Sosamma.‏ 
Pat, Lalita.‏ 
Pattanayak, Lilabati.‏ 5 
N. 0. ROY,‏ 
Controller of Examinations,‏ 


ভজন IS 


RESULTS OF THE D.G.0. EXAMINATION, APRIL, 
1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 21st May, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for Diploma in 99159900198 and 


Obstetrics, held m April, 1955:— 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
1 
2 Sarkar, Dilipkumar, Calcutta Medical College. 
3 Bhattacharyya, Kamala, Calcutta Medical College. 
4 
5 Ray, Arati, Calcutta Medical College. 
6 Mukhopadhyay, Panchanan, . Kar Medical 
7 Mukhopadhyay, ‘Tarungopal, Calcutta Medical 
' College. 
9 Chakrabarti, Baidvanath, Calcutta Medical College. 
10 Chaudhuri, Snnilkumar, R. G. Kar Medical College. 
12 Datta, Sukumar, Calcutta Medical College. 
۱۹۸ Bhattacharyya, Aruna, Chittaranjan Sevasadan. 
sadan. 
15 Jot, Biswanath, Calcutta Medical تک‎ 
N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of 58. 


Chaudhuri, Narayan, R. G. Kar Medical College. 
Basu, Samarkrishna, R. G. Kar Medical College. 
College. 
Mallik, Prabhatkumar, Calcutta Medical College. 
11 Mahmooda Khatun, Chittaranjan Sevasadan. 
{4 Chandhuri, Jogendrachandra, Chittaranjan Seva- 
37 6, 
16 Maiti, Birendranath, Calcutta Medical College. 


کس سو ہج 


RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN DOMESTIC SCIENCE 
TRAINING EXAMINATION, MAY, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 28th June, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
sata the Examination for Diploma in Domestic Science 
‘raining, held m May, 1956: 


VIHARILAL MITRA INSTITUTE OF DOMESTIC 
SCIENCE, CALCUTTA UNIVERSITY. 
PASSED WITH DISTINCTION. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
eee Snigdha. 
Aich, Kamala. 
Bagchi, Anurupa. 
4 Sanyal, Gauri (Mrs. Bhaduri). 


NO سر‎ 


PASS. 

(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Aich, Khukurani. 
Bandyopadhyay, Parul, 
Basu, Cherukana. 
Basu, Sahita. 
Biswas, Jyotsna. 
Chakrabarti, Mina. 
Chakrabarti, Mira. 
Chakrabarti, Sobha. 
Chattopadhyay, Sephalika. 

10 Chaudhuri, Usharani. 

Das, Bina. 
Das, Rekha, 
Dasgupta, Mira (Mra. Mukhopadhyay). 
Dasgupta, Rani. 
Datta, Anita. 
Datta, Anjali. 
Datta, Arati. 
Datta, Sabita. 
Debi, Radharani. 


parr IB] 


পিউ‏ ہے سے 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 475 


scenes ERIS USS eR ny LA EEA SELES CSCI DO tC ا‎ SECT ETI LO EL Ae A TT A EES OI, 
পিজা পর. Bie ne eet AEE 


Debi, Suprabha.‏ وو 
Ghosh, Bela.‏ 
Ghosh, Dipti (Mrs. De).‏ 
Ghosh, Hasi.‏ 
Ghosh, Krishna.‏ 
Ghosh, Pratima.‏ 
Ghosh, Santa.‏ 
Ghosh, Santi.‏ 
Ghosh, Sudhw. :‏ 
Ghosh, Tripti.‏ 

Gupta, Punyaprabha.‏ مہ 
Kanjilal, Gauri (Mrs. Datta).‏ 
Muitra, Pushpa.‏ 
Mitra, Gauri.‏ 
Mukhopadhyay, Archana,‏ 
Pattanayak, Kamala.‏ 
Ray, Archana.‏ 
Ray, Aruna (Mrs. Ghosh).‏ 
Ray, Hena.‏ 
Ray, Kalyani.‏ 

40 Ray, Manjusri. 
Sarkar, Anita. 
Sarkar, Bibha. 
Sen, Anjali. 
Sengupta, Chameli. 
Sengupta, Gayatri. 
Sengupta, Munika 
Sengupta, Mira. 
Sinha, Gayatri. 
Sinha, Gita. 

60 Sinha, Renuka. 


N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
- RESULTS OF THE EXAMINATION FOR THE DIPLOMA 


IN SOCIAL WORK (LABOUR WELFARE), MAY, 
1655. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 23rd July, ۰ 


1.—The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Kxamination for the Diploma in Social Work 
(lavbour Welfarc), held in May, 1955 and placed in the 
class under which their names appear:— 


ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND 
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT. 


(Arranged in order of merit.) 
FIRST CLASS. 


Inder Narayan Kapoor. 
Onkar Swarup Bhatnagar. 


SECOND CLASS. 


Prem Kant Srivastava. 

> N, Bopaiah. 

J. N. Pandey. 

V. V. Mangalvedhekar, 
Chattopadhyay, Kantiranjan. 
Alexander, A. T. 

Guha, Amitbandhu. 

Krishna Kulbhushan Bhagauliwal. 
Raychaudhuri, Gobardhan, 
Mohammad Munir Khan. 
Mohapatra, Chandramohan, 
Ghosh, Amitabha. 

P. Madhavan. 


148 Chhama Khakha. 


ll.—Tho undermentioned candidates who appeared at the 
fxamination for the Diploma in Social ork (Labour 
Welfare), May, 1955, under section 5 of Chapter XXXVII-C 


of the Regulations, are doclared to have passed the 
Examination: - 


By = 


BS سے‎ 


ood‏ سے 
ھ یں ৩০ 00 ১২০১‏ تہ £5 


ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL WELFARE 0٥ 
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Mukhopadhyay, Debkumar, 
Mukhopadhyay, Nandarani. 
Parbat, Satischandra. 7 
R. K. Kapur. 
5 Rup Rani Mathur. 
N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE BACHELOR OF DENTAL SURGERY 
EXAMINATIONS, JUNE, 1085. 
Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 
Senate House, the 27th July, 1958. 
নন The indearmontioned candidates are declared to have 
٦ ik the First Professional Examination for the Degree 
achelor of Dental Surgery, held in June, 1955:— 
CALCUTTA DENTAL COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in ulphabetical order.) 
Kandyopudhyay, Mihirkumar., 
as, Anadikumar, 
"٘ Asokkumar. 
eorge Gwan Chan, 
Yorendra Prasad. 
undu, ٦٣ 


Lal, Lear Masih ,لا‎ 
Mukhopadhyay, Sabyasachi. 
Samanta, Arunkumar. 

10 Surendra Nath Bhatia. 

11 Thomas, K. T. 


l1.—The undoimentioned candidates are declared to have 
pussed the Second Professional Examination for the Degreu 
of Bachelor of Dental Surgery, held in June, 1065:— 


CALCUTTA DENTAL COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Deb, Biharilal. 
Gokul Das Ojha. 
Haider Ahmed. 
Kamala Chalam. 
Kole, Dwijendralal, 
Majumdar, Asimkumar. 
Mohan Chandra Joshi. 
Mukhopadhyay, Ranendra. 
Reychaudhuri, Kiransankar. 
0ا‎ Sengupta, Pranabkumar. 
Talukdar, Sankarananda. 
12 Thelly, Thomas C. 


Tll.—The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Third Professional Examination for the Degree 
of Bachelor of Dental Surgery, held in June, 1955:— 


CALCUTTA DENTAL COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bandyopadhyay, Subhashchandra. 
Basu, Maniskumar. 
8. Prusty, Srikanta. 
N.C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


OF THE CERTIFICATE IN TANNING 
EXAMINATION, JULY, 1955, 


Orders by the Vioe-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 26th November, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Certificate in Tanning, 


held in July, 1955 and ore placed in the class under which 
thei: names appear:— 


BENGAL TANNING INSTITUTE. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
“RST CLASS. 
Bandyopadhyay, Sukumar. 
De, Satyendramohan. 


SECOND CLASS. 


Mukhopadhyay, Asokkusum. 
Gangopadhyay, Smritimay. 


RESULTS 


BS تر‎ 


ইত পি 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN LIBRARIANSHIP 
EXAMINATION, JULY, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


ক 
Senate House, the llth September, 1055. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Diploma in Librarianship, 
held in July, 1955:— 

LIBRARIANSHIP TRAINING DEPARTMENT, 
CALCUTTA UNIVERSITY. 
PASSED WITH DISTINCTION, 
(Arranged in ordor of merit.) 
' Ghosh, Sunilbihari. 
2 Dasgupta, Arunkanti, 
PASS. 

(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bandyopadhyay, Tapati. 
Bhattacharyya, Ganeschandra, 

Das, Anisranjan, 

Datta, Anjali, 

Maitra, Tapati. 

Mitra, Santimay. 
Mukhopadhyay, Sankarprasad. 
Mukhopadhyay, Supriya. 

Ray aya, 

10 Si, Dulalchand. 

11 Syed Jameol Ahmad. 

C. ROY, 


Controller of Examinations. 


সইতে‏ مس 


RESULTS OF THE T. 0. 0D. EXAMINATION, JULY, 
1955. 
Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 
Senate House, the 6th August, 1956, 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 


nassed the Kxamiuation for the Diploma in Tuberculous 
Diseases, iy in July, 10958 سےت‎ 


ALCUTTA MEDICAL COLLEGE, 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bandyopadhyay, Dilipkumar, 
Basu. Nantbhushan. 
Faizur Rahman. 


4 Mukhopadhyay, Amarendranath. 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


476 


সি 


RESULTS OF THE CERTIFICATE IN APPLIED 
PSYCHOLOGY EXAMINATION, JULY, 1955. 


Orders by. the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of ٣8۰ 
Senate House, the 27th August, 5۰ 
‘he undermontioned candidates are declared to have 
دن‎ tho Examination for the Certificate in Applied 
*sychology, held in July, 1855:— 
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF SCIENCE. 
(Arranged in order of merit. 
FIRST DIVISION. 
Jagmoban Gandhi. 
Datta, Sudhirkumar. 
SECOND DIVISION, 
Ghosh, Prasunkumar. 
Chattopadhyuy, Sujata. 
Bhattacharyya, Amarendranath. 
Majumdar, Mala. 
Maitra, Dipti. |. 
Mukhopadhyay, Sila. 
Sen, Aparna. 


BS ৮৪ 


بت چہ جن NIA Oe‏ 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


E TEACHERS’ TRAINING CERTI- 
৮৮455 APPRECIATION) EXAMINATION, 
AUGUST, 1955. 
Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 28th September, 1955. 


‘he undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Teacher’s Training Certificate (Art Apprecia- 
tion) Examination, held in August, 1955:— 


ASUTOSH MUSEUM OF INDIAN ARTS; CALCUTTA 
UNIVERSITY. 


PASSED WITH DISTINCTION. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
1 tandyopadhyay, Siddhartha. 


Y (Ghosh, Arunkumar. 
× Mukhopadhyay, Sandhya (Mrs. Gangopadhyay). 


PASS. 

(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Chattopadhyay, Asima. 
Chaudhuri, Samareschandra. 
Das, ০০ 

N. C. ROY,‏ سو یف 
Yontroller of Examinations.‏ 


ete a 


RESULTS OF THE 0. T. M. & H. EXAMINATION, 
AUGUST, 1955. 


Oraevs by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 12th October, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for Diploma in Tropical Medicine 
and Hygiene, held in August, 1955:— 


SCHOOL OF TROPICAL MEDICINE, CALCUTTA. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
1 Kundu, Sunilkumar. 
% Bhattacharyya, Siteskanti. 
% Bhattacharyya, Krishnachandra. 
4 Dattagupta, Gopijiban, 
& Bandyopadhyay, Amalkumar. 
6 Ahmed, Mohammed 171-8۱1 Younes, 
7 Shyam Kumar Bountra. 
8 Balo, Makhanchandra. 
9 Bal Krishna Sharma. 
10 De, Madhusudan. 
11 Ramesh Kumar Mehta. 
12 Sen, Tapan. 
13. Das, Barendrakanta. 
14 Syed Abdullah. 
16 8. ৬. Nagamanickam. 
16 Basu, Prasantakumar. 
17 Ray, Panchucharan 
18 Ray, Chittaranjan. 
19 Pathak, Sudhirkumar, 
20 Kundu, Bijaykrishna. 
21 Mitra, Amal. 
N.C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


جوجعیارکییںسجت ٹک 


RESULTS OF THE EXAMINATION FOR THE DIPLOMA 
লিল ০৮০ AND OBSTETRICS, SEPTEM- 
» 1055. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the Ist October, 1955. 
The undermentioned eandidates are declared to have 


7 


parsed the Examination for the Diploma in Gynmecolo 
and Obstetrics, held m September, 1955:— : si 


(Arranged in order of merit.) 


ae দর দানা, Mahamnaya—Oalcutta 
Ky یں‎ 
2 Guta, Nanigopal—Chi iaranjan Sevasadan. 


Medical 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


[Parr IB 


3 Mandal, Sanatkumar—Calcutta Medical College. — 
4 Basu, Samirkumar—R, G. Kar Medical College. 
6 Chattopadhyay, Pranabkumar—R. জে edical 
College. 
6 De, Kshitiranjan—Chittaranjan Sevasadan. 
7 ظ0‎ Birendramohan-—R. G. Kar Medical 
Jollege. 
Datta, Prabha—Chittaranjan Sevasadan. 
9 Harsharan Uberoi—R. G. Kur Medical College. 
10 Sarkar, Ajitkumur—Calcutta Medical College. 
11 Ghosh, Dasarathi—Calcutta Medical College. 
12 Basu, Ranu—Chittaranjan Sevasadan. 
18 Mitra, রিনা নিউজ Fe G. Kar Medical College. 
14 Hajra, Saktiram—Calcutta Medical College. 
15 Saha, Haridas—Calcutta Medical College. 
16 Debi, Nirbhika—Chittaranjan Sevasadan. 
17 Ghatak, 1 Sevavadan, 
Ray, Saradindu—Calcutta Medical College. 


19 Chattopadhyay, Satyendranath—R, G. Kar Medical 
ollege. 
20 Pradhan, Kalyani—Caleutta Medical College. 
00. ROY, 


Controller of ‘Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE 1t.8c. (AGRICULTURE) COMPART- 
MENTAL EXAMINATION, SEPTEMBER, 1055. 


Orders bv the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 1st October, 1955. 


The undermentioned candidates who appeared at the 
Intermediate Examination (Science) in Agriculture, held 
in September, 1955 in one subject only under section 40 
(Comportmental Rules) of Chapter XXXV-A of the 
University Regulations and passed in that subject, are 
now declared to have passed the Intermediate Examination 
(Science) in Agriculture:— 

JHARGRAM RAJ COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 


Chattopadhyay, Kanailal. 
Chattopadhyay, Kanakkamal, 
Ghosh, Binaykanti. 
Hait, Adharchandra. 
Ray, Bibekendunarayan. 
6 Sen, Sujitkumar. 
N. 0. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE CERTIFICATE IN LANGUAGE 
EXAMINATION, SEPTEMBER, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta, 


Senate House, the 26th November, 1955. 

The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Certificate in Language, 
held in September, 1955 in the Language under which their 
names appear :— 

UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF ARTS. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
French, 
SECOND CLASS. 
1 Das, Chittaranjan. 


THIRD CLASS. 
Pramanik, Arunkumar, 
Dasgupta, Pranitabha. 
German. 
FIRST CLASS. 


1 Talapatra, Sunilkumar, 
2 Majumdar, Tapas. 
3 Ghosh, Santibrata. 
SECOND CLASS. 


Khan, Debicharan. 
Karmakar, Praphullachandra. 
Saha, Kasinath. 
Reaychaudhuri, Phanibhushan. 


THIRD CLASS. 


Mukhopadhyay, Debabrata. 

Biswas, Asishkumar. 

Sinha, Debabrata. 

Shom, Kartikchandra, 

Niyogi, Sunilkumar. 

Seth, Praphullakumar. 

Datta. Kanakendranath. 

Chattopadhyay. Subrata. 

Dasgupta, Asokkumar. 

Sil, Purnachandra. 
Russian. 


FIRST CLASS. 
Sanyal, Lakshmi. 
Mukhopadhyay, Pramodranjan. 
SKCOND CLASS. 
1 Brajmohan Agrawal. 
2 Sinha, Sadananda. 


3 Saha, Chitra (Mrs, Ray). 
4 Desarkar, Birendrakumar. 


سد تبث 


৯১৯ GO سہ چھ‎ 


سر تج جب 


سم 
یىی 0১‏ جچہ ২১00‏ د2 


tS سم‎ 


Part IB] 


পু লি 
٦ 
ey: THIRD CLASS. 
Bandyopadhyay, Amulyaratan, 
> Sarkar, Jyotsna. 
4 Shanti Kumar Jain Shah. 
Chinese. 
৬. FIRST CLASS. 
\ Ray, Haraprasad. 
1 


বি dees পা পট 
ও etn পপ সপ ری‎ eee 


SECOND CLASS, 
Chaudhuri, Asitkumar, 

THIRD CLASS. 
Chattopathyay, Rabindranath. 
Bandyopadhyay, Subhashchandra. 


Hindi. 
THIRD CLASS. 


Bg = 


Mitra, Bela, 
Raychandhun, Mohitkumar. 


ty = 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


সত 


RESULTS OF THE 0. P. H. EXAMINATION, PART II, 
NOVEMBER, 1985. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 4th January, 1956. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
pussed the 1), P. H. Examination, Part II, held in Novem- 
ber سس‎ 
ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF HYGIENE AND PUBLIC 

HEALTH. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bagchi, Santigopal, 
Chakrabarti, Sudhindranarayan, 
Dasgupta, Sukhendusekhar. 
Md. Abdus Sobhan. 1 , 
Prem Chandra ۷٢۲۳۷3۰ 
Kam Chandra Prasad. 
7 Shashikant Atisukhashankar Trivedi. 


N. C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


(লী یبر‎ কত 


RESULTS OF THE 8.80.8. EXAMINATION, NOVEMBER, 


Ordera by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of ) ۰ 


Senate House, the 4th February, 1956. 


I.—The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the First Professional Examination for the Degree 
of Bachelor of Dental Surgery, held in November, 1955:— 

CALCUTTA DENTAL COLLEGE. 

(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Bagchi, Tapati. ea 
Bandyopadhyay, Ajayprasad. 


Bandyopadhyay, 16515025181, ‘ we 
Basu, Alokkumar. °° 
Dalbir Singh Chopra. ۰ 


Dayalji Chunilal Solankee, 
Ghatak, ۰. 
Mukhopadhyay, Adityakumar, 
Protap Singh M. Sapat. 

10 Sen, Narayanprasad. 


It.—The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Second Professional Examination for the Degree 
of Bachelor of Dental Surgery, held in November, 1955:— 

CALCUTTA DENTAL COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 

Bagchi, Saktisekhar. 

Basu, Prasantakumar. 

Chattopadhyay, Sihharkumar. 

Dasgupta, Asishkumar. 

Jose, Mularikal Ittoop. 

Lalit Mohan Guglani. 

Majumdar, Kanakendranath. 

Prem Krishna Mathur. 

9 ہت و‎ Prasad Singh. 

II],.—The undermentioned candidates are declared to 
have passed the Third Professional Examination for tho 
0 of Bachelor of 1)68)65] Surgery, held in November, 

CALCUTTA DENTAL COLLEGE. 
(Arranged in alphabetical order.) 
Basu, Bhabatosh. 
John, Puthusseril Tttoop. 
38 Mukhopadhyay, Mridulkanti. 
3 . ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


سے مم 


RESULTS OF THE M. চু. EXAMINATION, NOVEMBER, 
Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Caloutta. 


Senate House, the 4th February, 1956. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
৪৮০৫ the Master of Engineering Examination in Metal- 
00100] Engineering Branch, held in November, 1956:— 

NON-COLLEGIATE STUDENTS. 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
1 Sakya Sinha Pani. 
2 Sen, Pranabkumar. 


= 


N. CC. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 ATT 


গা 


আপি পা শর শপ শিস‏ جو ہے 
اہ مے سم পি ee‏ ہو পপি‏ وم مس 


পেপসি পপর‏ مث 


RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN SOCIAL WORK 
(LABOUR WELFARE) EXAMINATION, NOVEM- 
BER, ۰. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 11th February, 1956. 


1.—The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Diploma in Social Work 
(Labour Wellare), held in November, 1955 and placed in 
the class under which their names appear :— 


ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND 
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT, 
০০৮7 in order of merit.) 

‘IRST CLASS. 

Lallan Jee Pathak. 

Biswas, Himendu. 

Indrajit Singh Sirohi. 

SECOND CLASS. 

Gangopadhyay, Jyotish. 

Panda, Damodar. 

Lahiri, Maya. 

1). V. Sabharwal. 

Ray, Debkamal. 

P. V. Kalyanaraman. 

Adishwar Prasad Jain, 

Sarkar, Adhirchandra. 

H. .کا‎ Tanoja. 

Maiti, Prabhatkumar, 

Ajab Sitaram Bhure. 

Ray, Jitendranath. 

George, K. V. 

Koka Sathyamurthy, 

15 Sengupta, Ramendranath. 

16 Guha, Ratanchand. 

17 Jacob, Mathew. 

18 Romesh Chander Sethi 

19 Handa, Krishnadeb. 

20 Devendra Nath Varma. 

21 Gangadhbar Varma. 

22 Rayehaudhuri, Asokkumar 

28 Shyam Chandra Raizada. 

24 Chaudhuri, Bhupendranath. 

25 Bashisth Narain Thakur. 

Tara Chand Kamran. 
Tarini Prasad Jha. 

28 Mukhopadhyay, Nandagopal. 

29) وت‎ -<din Punjabi. 

30 Sri Rat Pratap Singh. 

310 Chaudhuri, Parthasarathi. 

32. Ghosh, Bholanath. 

33 Bhattacharyya, Satischandra 

34 Narendra Nanabhai Bhatt. 

36 Ishwardatia Joshi. 

۹6 Guha, Ranajitkumar. 

‘+ Ravi Prakash Tondon. 


Af.—The undermentioned candidate who appeared at tne 
Examination for the Diploma in Social Work (labour 
Welfare), November 1955, under section مق‎ of Chapter 
XXXVII-C of the Universily Regulations, is now declared 
to have passed the Examination: سے‎ 


ALL-INDIA INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND 
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT. 


* Mukhopadhyay, Bijankanti. 


سم bo‏ تب 


Whe‏ حم ہت کی یہ 00 2০‏ 9 سم 


nok cewek peat 
Oe 


N.C. ROY, 
Controller of Examinations. 
RESULTS OF THE DIPLOMA IN JOURNALISM 
EXAMINATION, DECEMBER, 1955. 


Orders by the Vice-Chancellor and Syndicate of the 
University of Calcutta. 


Senate House, the 17th March, 1956. 


The undermentioned candidates are declared to have 
passed the Examination for the Diploma in Journalism, 
held in December, 1955:— 


JOURNALISM DEPARTMENT, CALCUTTA 
UNIVERSITY, 
(Arranged in order of merit.) 
FIRST CLASS, 
] Bhattacharyya, Sandhya, 
2 Chattopadhyay, Arunchandra, 
3 Chattopadhyay, Asimkumar. 
: Ghosh, Karunamay. 
6 


é 


Guha, Gita. 
Satya Narayan Dangaich. 


SECOND CLASS. 

1 یسا‎ 80. 
29 Basu, Mrigendranath. 
3. Pal, Aruna. 
4 Deb, Bithi. 
5 Sengupta, Ajitkumar. 
6 Datta, Dilip. 

Mukhopadhyay, Gopalchandra, 
8 Chakrabarti, Dhritindra. 
9 Bhaduri, Tarasankar. 
10 Basu, Nilima. 

Shanti Shah. 
12 Jai Murti Tewari. 


18 Shyamal Kishore Thakur, 
1 


۹ 


N.C. 
Controller of Examinations 


478 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 [Parr I} 


STATE COUNCIL FOR ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION, GOVERNMENT O07 ৮231 BENGAL 
The 28th June 1956. 


The following candidates are declared to have passed the Licentiate Examination in Civil Engineering (Supplementary /Compart . 
mental), held in 1956:-— 


Serial Roll Name. Division Name of the Institution. 
No. No. or Class. 
1 21 Samaresh Chakravarty aa ia ৪৪. 1 ১ Jalpaiguri Polytechnic Institute, 
2 2 Khagaban Chandra Karmakar و‎ .. Pass 5 Ditto. 
3 4 Ranajit Kumar Chakravarty .. 4 om متا‎ 7 Ditto. 
4 5 Nalimesh Dutta নে 7 00ے‎ in Ditto. 
5 6 Mrinal Kanti Bhowmik ہے و و‎ Do. 7 Ditto. 
6 7 Nopal Chandra Ghosh -۰ 7 .ے‎ Do. ee Ditto. 
7 Q Rabindra Nath Dutta : es .. Do. 7 Ditto. 
8 10 Amiya Ranjan Bandyopadhyaye । - » Do. ৪৪ Ditto. 
9 11 Amalondu Mukherjee ' ix ہے‎ Do. Ditto. 
10 12 Sivadas Chattorjeo es “4 ~. 6. ae Ditto. 
1] 23 Parimalendu Das es 7 97 7 Ditto. 
12 14 Niranjan Bhattacharjee ns 2% ےے‎ De, i Ditto. 
13 15 Rajat Kumar Bhowmick ee 7٦ 00ے‎ 8 Ditto. 
14 16 Nagendra Nath Karjce ex ۰ 009 DG, রঃ Ditto. 
16 19 Naresh (handra Das Majumder ۰ oe ەل‎ 7 Ditto. 
16 20 Hari Pada Guha Roy Ks 7 بے‎ Do. পা Ditto. 
17 26 Susil Kumar Roy i ss مم‎ Do, .. K.G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 
18 27 Shyama Prasad Biswas -۰ wie »» De, ee Ditto. 
19 28 Amal Krishna Ray ee on হ5 শুতে, Ditto. 
20 29 Balaram Majumdar ee ee >» Do. er Ditto. 
2] 30 Samirendra Nath Maulik =e ee i. DO, 7 Ditto. 
22 31 Dilip Kumar Sen Gupta -7 ee ~. Do, v6 Ditto. 
23 32 Amiya Gopal Chatterjee -۰ ‘ -- Do. 7 Ditto. 
24 33 Dwijades hattacharyya st 7 1پ‎ Do. 7 Ditto. 
25 34 Uday Shankar Sur oe & ہے‎ Do. .» Hooghly Institute of Technology. 
26 85 Amalendu Sircar 7 as ہے‎ Da. a Ditto. 
27 36 Narayan Chanera Chakravarty ee .. Do. om Ditto. 
28 387 Ajoy Kumar Mukhopadhyay... es مے‎ Do. ey Ditto. 
29 38 Chandra Madhab Ganguly 0s oe ». Do. +e . Ditto. 
30 39 Sunil Kumar Chakraborty 7 7 «« Do. হর Ditto. 
31 40 Amiya Prasanna Mukherjee os ee «-« Do. a Ditto. 
32 41 Tara Pada Nag س7‎ wa ہی‎ «De ee Ditto. 
33 483 Amar Nath Mukhopadhayayé, ar ےه‎ Do. a4 Ditto. 
34 44 Susanta Kumar Chowdhuri 7 7 -. Do. 7 Ditto. 
35 45 Sisir Kumrar Banorjeo oe oe _. J .. M. B.C. Institute of Engincoring and Tech. 
nology, Burdwan. 
36 46 Benoy Kumar Dawn oF ৬ *৯ Do. ee Ditto. 
37 47 Biswanath Roy ve ৬৬ ** Do. 7 Ditto. 
38 48 Habibar Rahaman ee -» Do. os Ditto. 
39 60 Nirmal Chandra Bandyopadhyay — oe -- Do. ee Ditto, 
40 51 Kamal Mohan Roy Choudhury oe «- Do. নল Ditto. 
4] نہ‎ Biswa Nath Garai os ৬ «- Do. ও Ditto. 
42 53 Jay Deb Chatterjee ee ee «os Do. এজ , Ditto. 
43 64. Sukumar Gupta oe ee *৬ Do. vs Ditto. 
44 65 Debi Prosad Sain ve ee oe Do. oe Ditto. 
45 56 Haripada Saha ee ےے مم‎ Do, ee Ditto. 
46 57 Sajjad Hossain Mirdeh 7 oe -e Do. oe Ditto, 
47 58 Samar Kumar Mukherjee < ৮ ca dG, ve Ditto. 
48 59 Nitya Gopal Das # os ae ~- Do, ٠ Ditto. 
49 61 Bansa Gopal Sain 7 ee .ےہ‎ Do. ee Ditto. 
را5‎ 62 Himangsu Sekhar Kumar 4s oe .- Do. oe Ditto. 
61 63 Delwar Hussain Mondal ne en -. Do. ۰7 Ditto. 
52 65 0 Kumar Sen Gupta ve oe مےے‎ Do. oe Ditto. 
53 67 Kali Kinkar Chattopadhyay 7 oe -- Do. - Ditto. 
54 72 Dilip Kumar Roy 7 ee -- Do. 7 Ditto. 
55 79 83178, ast Prasad Singha 7 ক -- Do. ar Ditto. 
56 81 Anupam Sen as va ےے‎ Do. ee Ditto. 
57 83 Khand Kar Kabir Ahmed ৮ 7 ee Do. ee Ditto. 
68 84 Chitta Ranjan Das 7 os ‘ Do. »» Jadavpur Polytechnic. 
59 85 Sudhindra Nath Moulik ۰ 7۰ 99037 ৪ Ditto. 
60 86 Keshab Ranjan Das ws -٦ 900 - Ditto. 
61 87 Nabo Kumar Sarkar ہے و‎ Do, یا‎ Ditto. 
62 89 Arun Kumar Majumdar 7 7 *০ Do. at Ditto. 
63 92 Sisir Bhusan Sen Gupte - 7 911171 ee Ditto. 
64 93 Ajoy Kumar Sarker 7 7 ডক Mo, 4 & Ditto. 
65 94 90005 Nath Joarder -. Do. os Ditto. 
66 95 Bhupesh Chandra Roy - Do. oe Ditto. 
67 66 Sudhir Kumar Sarkar se -7 ہے‎ মুতের as Ditto. 
68 97 Devdas Rarerjoe 7 - ‘ Do. 7 Ditto. 
69 98 Kabindra Narayan Basu ۰ টি ১৬ Do. ৮ ৪ Ditto. 
70 100 Nirmal Kanti Chakravarty ba ہے‎ Do. 5 Ditto. 
71 1۱01 Pritesh Chandra Ghose Roy 2 ٦ مے‎ Dao. ve Ditto. 
72 102 Mihir Ranjan Dey 7 7 -. Do. -۰ Ditto. 
7983 103 Nani Gopal Chakrabarty 7 7 .- Do. - Ditto. 
74 104 Sudarson Paul - 7-۰ ہم‎ Do. و‎ Ditto. 
75 108 Dilip Kumar Roy Chowdhury _.. ৪ 9 Do, xs Ditto. 
76 107 Kesri Nandan Upadhya = 7 -» Do. ৮ ৯ Ditto, 
77 111 Anil Kumar Banerjoe ie ٦ 9117 a Ditto. 
78 114 Pabitra Kumar Das Gupta Pe 7 তত 0, ৮৪ Ditto. 
79 118 Kali Pada Saha و‎ 7 cso D0, oe Ditto. 


The following candidates are declared to have passed the Licentiato Examination in Mechanical Ungineering (Supplementary | 
Compartmental), held in 1068: 


Serial Roll Name. Division. Name of the Institution. 
No. N ے0‎ or Class. 
1 1 Nirmalendu Roy ie 7 .. Pass .. M. B.C. Institute of Engineering and ۷۰ 
nology, Burdwan. 
2 (1 Ruchir Ranjan Roy 7 7 » Do. .. Jadavpur Polytechnio. 
3 12) Amarnath Chaudhuri ea ey Do, - Ditto, 
4 18 Sudhendu Bhusan Ganguly 7 we ہا‎ Do. 7 Ditto. 


Pant TB] 


4 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 479 


The following candidates are declared to have passed the Licentiate Examination in Electrical Engineering (Supple- 


mentary/Com partmental), held in 1956 :— 


Serial Roll Name. 

No. No. 
1 4 Rebati Bhuson Das 7 oe 
2 5 Sib Das Horal : 
3 6 Samir Kumar Mukherjee 
4 7 Biswanath Mookherjee 
5 8 (Chand: Charan Mukherjeo 
6 10 4816 Kumar Konar 


Division Name of the Institution. 
or Class. 
Pass .. Jadavpur Polytechnic, 
Do. 5 Ditto. 
Do, - Ditto. 
Do. .. M. B. C. Institute of Engineering and 
Technology, Burdwan. 
Do. 7 Ditto. 
Do. 7 Ditto. 


The following candidates are declared to have passed the Draughtamanship Examination (Supplementary /Compartmental), 


held in 1956 : 


Sorial Roll Name. 
No. No. 
1 1 Sachchida Nanda Nayak oe 
2 2 Somesh Pada Halder oe oe 
3 3  Harinarayan Mukhoopadhyay 
4 4 Koalidas Chakraborty 
5 6 Amal Kumar Bhattacharyya 
6 6 Tarun Kumar Mitra 
7 7 Baidya Nath Ghose 
8 9 Madan Mohan Mandal 
9 10 Shaik Kausar Ah 


10 11 Mihir Ranjan De Sircar 
11 12 Kanai Gopal Chatterjee 
12 18 Sushil Kumar Roy § 
13 14 Satya Sadhan Chatterjee 
14 16 Gurupada Bhattacharjya 
15 19 Samatosh Sen Gupta 

16 200 Sujit Kumar Paul 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
WEST BENGAL 


NOTIFICATION No. 6 
Dated the 27th June 1956 


Submission of books ” Pali for Classes Vi and 
Vil-V 


Text-books on Pali may be submitted to the 
Secretary to the Board for approval as Pali Primer 
for Class VI and Pali Reader for Classes VII-VILI 
together. 

Books must be written according to the syllabi on 
the subject as notified in Board’s notification 
No. Syl./21/56, dated the 27th June 1956. 1 
books must be printed on white printing paper. 
The minimum substance of the নি should be 
of the quality of 28 Ibs. Double Crown. The 
size of the books and the type used for printing 
should be as indicated in the syllabi. 

Six copies of each book in printed form or in 
manuscript or typescript must be submitted along 
with the prescribed fee for each of the submitted 
books not later than the 28th September 195t., 

The fee will be Rs. 25 per book, 


Other detaila regarding procedure of sub- 
mission shall be as indicated in Board’s notifica- 
tion No. Syl. /18/56, dated the 19th March 1956, 
published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 29th 
March 6۰ 

By order of the Administrator, 


D. 1১, RAY CHAUDHURI, Secretary. 


তত 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
WEST BENCAL 


NOTIFICATION No. Syl. /25/56 


Calcutta, the 12th July 1956 
Syllabus in Current Affairs 
The following shall be the syllabus of study in 
Current Affairs as un elective subject for the 
School Final Examination, 1959 :— 
1.—Background materials for— 
(i) Local Affairs (West Bengal), 
(17) National Affairs (India), 
(27) World Affairs, 


Division Narne of the Inatitution. 
or Claas. 
. Pass .. K. G. Engineering Institute, Vishnupur. 
- Do -. Hooghly Institute of Technology. 
» Do Ditto. 
. Do Ditto. 
. Do Ditto. 
Do Ditto. 
Do M. 13. C. Institute of Engmecring and Tech. 
nology, Burdwan. 
Do. a Ditto. 
Do. 7 Ditto. 
Do. কও Ditto. 
Do Ditto. 
Do Ditto, 
Do Ditto. 
Do Ditto. 
Do Jadavpur Polytechnic. 
Do Ditto. 


A. C. SEN, Socretary, 


under the following heads for each :— 
(u) Physical features; 

(6) Population and their make up; 
(c) Natural resources; 


(d) Utilization of resources and organization. 


11.—The form of the Government in India in 
the Centre and the States—The main 
political parties of India. 


IlI.—Main economic — systems—Capitalist 
Economy, Socialist Economy and Mixed 
Economy. 


IV.—Organg of International Co-operation— 
‘ The experiment of the League of 
Nations, U.N.O. and all the other allied 
agencies, eg., UNESCO, F.A.QO., 
.H.O., ECAFE, I.L.0., Red Cross, 
International Council of Scientific 
Unions (ICSU). 


V.—Strategic groupings and the problem of 
world peace: Regional Groupings, 
eg., NATO, SEATO, MEDO, Colombo 
Plan, Power Blocs, Neutralism, Afro- 
Asian Resurgents and Panchasila. 


VI.—Economic Planning and the Five-Year 
Plans in India. 


VIT.—Geographical explorations and expedi- 
tions, 


VIIT.—World of Sports. 


IX.—Social impact of Science. 


The book will be of about 260 pages Double 
Crown, printed in small pica type. 


By order of the Administrator, 
1), P. RAY CHAUDHURI, Secretary. 


480 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 33, 1956 


৯ যত পপ অসি تی‎ 
কপ পি ত 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST 
BENGAL 
NOTIFICATION No. Syl/26/56 
Caleutta, the 14th July 1956 


Re.: Submission of books for the School Final 
Examination, 1959 


In continuation of this office notification 
No, Syl./14/56, dated the 21st March 1906, it 16 
notified that the page-limit of books on subjects 
under the Technical Course for the School Final 
Examination, 1959, will be as mentioned below :— 


Subject. Pages. 
(1) Geometrical (Engineering) Between 150 and 200—inolud- 
Drawing. ing diagrams and sketches. 
(2) Woodwork and Workshop Ditto. 
Technology. 


(3) Blements of Goneral Engi. Between 0 and 300—includ- 


neering Knowledge. ing diagrams and sketches. 
Building Materials and Ditto. 
Construction. 


By order of the Administrator, 


D. P. RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST 
BENCAL 
NOTIFICATION No. Syl./27/66 
Caleutta, the 24th July 1966 


Text-book on General Science (in Nepali) for 
Classes ۷۱۱ and ۴۱۱۱ . ہہ‎ * 


The undernoted book which is a Nepali transla- 
tion of Bijnan Path, Part 11 (written im Hindi), 
by Dr. Ramgopal Chatterjee and Shri Vindhye- 
swari Prosad Pandey (approved as a text-book in 
General Science for Classes VII-VITI for 1954 
and for two following years at least in the 08 
notification No. Syl./87/54, dated the 30th 
December 1954) is recommended for use of the 
pupils of Classes VII and VIII, who will stady 
the subject through the medium of Nepali for 
1956 and for the following year at least :— 

Name of the Translated Published Price. 
book, by. by. 
Ban Bihar, Ra, 2 per 


80/6 Grey Streot, copy. 
Caloutta-6. 


By order of the Administrator, 
[), P. RAY 07801011701, 


Secretary. 


Prathamik Bijnan, Dr. Ramgopal 
Dusra Khand. Chatterjee. 


[Parr 1B 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
WEST BENCAL 


NOTIFICATION No. Syl. /28/56 
Calcutta, the 25th July 1956 


Re,: Submission of books on Indian History for 
the School Final Examination, 1959 


In reply to public queries on the above subject, 
it is notified for general information that the 
Board does not make it binding on authors — to 
follow the explanatory notes on Indian History 
for Classes [IX and X contained in the “Detailed 
Synopsis of the History Syllabus for Secondary 
Schools’? published by the Board, in writing 
text-books on Indian 111৭601 for the School Final 
xamination, 1959. 


In partial modification of this office notification 
No. Syl./6/56, dated the 3lst January 1956, it is 
notified that the page-limit of books on Indian 
History for the School Final Examination of 
1050 is relaxed up to a maximum of 20 per cent. 


By order of the Administrator, 


D. 1১, RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, 
WEST BENCAL 


NOTIFICATION No, Syl. /29/56 
Calcutta, the 26th July 1946 


Re.: Submission of books for the Schoo! Final 
Examination, 1959 


In ‘partial modification of Board’s notification 
No. Syl./14/56, daled the 21st March 1956, it is 
uotified that the last date tor submission of books 
on subjects mentioned in Board’s notification 
No. Syl./6/56 and No, Syl./7/56, dated the 8 
January 1956 and No. Syl./9/56, dated the 13th 
February 1956, is further extended 1۰ Monday, Ist 
October 1956. 


By order of the Administrator, 


D. 1১, RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


Registered No. C207 


٦ 
لح‎ 
۲ 


তল‏ نگ 
30 ۰ 
» 


ہم 


Calrutia ۷ 


بب 


Se heme 


একশ ee eee 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1956 
OS eee 


উপ তত্ব‏ ۰سس میں 
ا۳ 


PART Ii—Advertisements, Notices 


Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc., in the 
‘‘Calcutta Gazette’? (Part 11), 


1, Manuscripts should be properly edited and complete in Itself. 
2. Manuscripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type- 
written below the signature. 


3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement In the next issue of ‘Calcutta Gazette” shall be received by ۸۲3 
Sales Office at New Secretariat Bulldings, 1 Hastings Street, Caloutta, up te 11 a.m. on Saturday and at 81850 Office 


at Alipore up to 12 noon on Monday. 
4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the Manuscripts. 


6. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PRINTING 
(PUBLICATION BRANCH), WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


The Press shall not be held responsible for delay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 


instruations detalfed_above. 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, IN 
4997০ INSOLVENCY 
ORDINARY ORIGINAL CIVIL JURISDICTION NOTICE OF ADJUDICATION ORDER NO. 21 OF 1956 
Matter No. 262 of 1956. Re. Alexander Damel Jones, residing at No, 34, Ripon Lane 
11) سا‎ oe নল and وت‎ রঃ an assistant 
In the matter of Companies Act, | of 1956 in the office of Messrs. Guest, Keen, Walliams (Private) 
‘ ; Ltd. at No. 97, Audul Road in the town of Howrah, 
and ex parte the debtor—In person. 

in the matter of Robin Paint Colour & Varnish Co. Private ON the 4th day of August 1956, an order was made by 
Ltd. the High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 


77 ھا‎ adjud t hoye 5 | rent. 
NOTICK is hereby given that a petition for the winding djudging the aboyenamed as an insolvent 


up of the abovenamed Company by the High Court at Note-—All debts due to the estate should be paid to me. 
Calcutta was on the 6th day of August 1956 presented to 
the said Court by Imperia) Oil Mills, Ltd., having its Dated this 17th day of August 1956. 


۱٥۱۵۲۸۲۰۱۱ office +۷ i 7 یس او ہی وس‎ 
Calcutta, a creditor of the said Company an at the 8810 . ۱ ۱ ۱ 
petition is directed to be heard er ee the Court on 10th M. M. CHAKRABARTY, Official Assignee. 
day of September 1956; and any creditor or contributory of 6, Council House Streot, Calcutta. 
the said Company desirous of opposing an order for the : 
winding up of the said Company under the above Act 
should appear at the time ot hearing by himself or his 
Attorney or Advocate for that purpose; and a soy of the 


পপি পপ 


petition will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of 
the said Company requiring same, by the undersigned, on UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
payment of the prescribed charge for the same. ۱ 
Advertisement No. 33 
NAHAR & DATTA, APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 


posts from Indian citizens and persons migrated from 


Attor for the petitionor. ٰ | 
ttorneys 1 Pakistan with intention of permanently settling in India 


1B Old Post Office Rtrect, or subjects of Nepal, Sikkim or Portuguese or former 

(۸ٌ) French possessions in India, Upper age-limits relaxable by 

fie years for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes 

Dated, the 14th August 1956. candidates and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
- Pakistan and role lela areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 

۱ : No relaxation for others, save .ا‎ exceptional cases and 

5 Note.— Rule 57 provides that uny person who intends to will in no case be relaxed beyond three পাব Particulars 
৪১987 on the bearing of the said petition must serve on and application forms from Secretary, Union Public Service 
r send by post to the উর NOES Fi হানি اہ‎ Commiasion, Post Box No, 186, New Delhi. Requests for 
is intention so to do. The notice must state the name forum سنا‎ specify nate of How) wel shold be uccot- 
“nd addross of the person, or, if a firm, the name and পর ا‎ ۹ না পিরিত -el f I 
address of the fi এ le served. ac | کرو‎ panied hy  self-addresse unstamped envelope for each 
must he aes تا گے‎ saiheiont time ha reach ا‎ aii post at least of size 9%x4" indicating thereon name of 
named 1 ২ না ۳ lear days before the 1010) day post for which forms are required. Closing date fer receipt 
“ot بس سو تب سس ہت‎ | ) of application with treasury receipt or Crossed Indian Postal 
; Order for Rs. 7-8 (Re, 14۔1‎ tor Scheduled Castes and 


(664-1) Tribes) 15th September 1956 (29th September 1956 for 


386 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


A 


applicants from abroad), Commission may remit genuine- 
ly indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ fee. Separate 
application with separate tee required for each post. 
Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper if form not 
available and deposit fee with local Indian Embassy. If 
required, candidates must appear for personal interview. 


1. One Deputy Director (Naval Architect), Ministry of 
Food and Agriculture.—Post temporary but likely to con- 
tinue. Other things being equal preterence to Scheduled 
Castes candidates. Payi—RRs. 600—-40—1,000—1,000—1,050 
—1,050-—1,100—1,150. Higher initial pay to specially 
qualified and experienced candidate. Agée:—Below 35 
years. Relaxable for Government servants. Qualifications 
—Essentlal:—Degree in Naval Architecture and some 
experience as Naval Achitect. Qualifications relaxuable at 
Commission's discretion in case of candidates otherwise 


well qualttied. 


2. One Chief Inspector of Weights and Measures, Delhi 
State.—Post temporary but hkely to be made permanent. 
Other things being equal, preference to Scheduled Castes / 
Tribes candidate. Pay:—RKs. 275—26--500 /30-——650. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:—Between 30 and 40 years. Relaxabte for Govern- 
ment servants. Qualifications—Essentiali—(i) Degree/ 
Diploma in Mechanical Engineering of recognised Univer- 
sity/Institution or equivalent qualifications. Or B.Sc. 
(Tech.) with Physics as one of the subjects from _recog- 
nised University. (ii) Adequate experienced in Govern- 
ment Department in responsible capacity, preferably in 
administering Weights and Measures Act. (iii) Working 
knowledge of Hindi or Urdu. Qualifications relaxable at 
Commission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise 


well qualified. 


3. One permanent Stores Officer at the Port of Cochin 
under Ministry of Transport.—Pay:—Rs. 2756—25—500— 
E.B.—30—-650.—-E.B.—30—800. Higher initial pay ٥ 
speciallye qualified and experienced candidate, Age:— 
Below 40 years. Relaxable for Government servants. 
Qualifications—Essential:—(i) Degree in Mechanical Engi- 
necring of recognised University or uivalent qualifica- 
tions. (ii) Adequate experience in purchase of stores and 
their accounting in responsible capacity in Government 
Department or public body or private concern of repute. 
Qualifications relaxable at Comuission’s discretion in case 
of candidates .otherwise well qualified. 


4. One Assistant Director, Grade | (Sales Tax) in 
Directorate-Genreal of Supplies and Disposals, Ministry of 
Works, Housing and Supply.—Post temporary. Pay:— 
Rs. 350—350—-380—380-~-30—590-—E. B.—30—770-—40—850. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:—Between 25 and 35 years. Relaxable for 
Government servants, Qualifications—Essential :—(1) 
Degree in Law of recognised University or Barrister ot 
England/Northern Ireland. (ii) Adequate purchase expe- 
rience in Government, semi-Government or commercial 
organisation of repute with knowledge of Sales Tax Acts 
and Rules in their application to purchase of stores. 
Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 
of candidates otherwise well qualified. 


5. Two Assistant Directors (Grade 8) (Textile Engineer- 
ing), Office of Textile Commissioner, Bombay.—Posts tem- 
porary but likely to continue. Other things being equal, 
Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidates preferred. Pay سے‎ 
Rs, 350—350—380—380—30-—590—E. B.—30—770—40——850. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidates. Age:—Between 25 and 35 years. Relaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifications-—Essentiat:—(i) 
Degree in Textile Technology or Degree in Mechanical 
Engineering with specialized knowledge/experience او‎ 
maintenance and manufacture of textile machinery. (ii) 
About two years’ experience in responsible position in tex- 
tile industry or textile machinery manufacturing industry. 
Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case 
of candidates otherwise well qualified, 


6. One Assistant Director (Grade 1) (Chemical Proces- 
sing), Office of Textile Commissioner, Bombay.—-l’ost 
temporary but likely to continue. Other things being equal, 
Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate preferred. Pay:— 
Rs. 350—350—380-—380-—~ 30-—590—E. B.—380—770—40—85U. 
Higher initial pay to specially qualified and experienced 
candidate. Age:—Between 25 and 35 years. Relaxable 
for Government servants. Qualifications----Essential :— (i) 
Degree in Textile Chemistry or Chemical Technology trom 
recognised University. (ii) About two years’ experience in 
responsible position in Textile Mill as dyer, bleacher and 
finisher or in Government or semi-Government institution 
or business concern of repute dealing with textile procen- 
aing and procesamg machinery. টি relaxahle at 
Commission’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise 
well qualified, ۰ 


7. (a) One Inspector of Schools and (b) one Inspectress 
of Schools, Tripura.—Posts temporary but likely to be made 
permanent. Pay:-——Ra. 200—-10—420-—15~—450. Higher 
initial pay to apecially qualified and experienced candidates. 


t 


[Parr [[ 


Age:—Between 35 and 45 years. Relaxable for permanent, 
Govérnment servants. Qualifications-- Essential ;s—(; 
Degree of recognised University. (ii) B.T. or equivalent, جو‎ 
Basie trained, (iii) About five years’ teaching experience 
in recognised High or Higher Secondary School and/or 
‘Training Institution including about two years’ administra. 
tive experience. (iv) Good knowledge of Bengali. Qual). 
fications relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of 
candidates otherwise well qualified. 


8. (a) Two Headmasters, (b) one Headmistress, 
Secondary Schools, Tripura.—QOnoe of the posts under (৪) 
permanent but appointment will be made on temporary 
basis, the other posts temporary but likely to be made 
permanent. Pay:—Rea. 200—10—420—15—450. = Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidates. 
Age:——Between 35 and 45 years. Relaxable for permanent 
Government servants, Qualifications---Essential ;— (j ) 
Degree in Arts or Science, preferably Master’s or equi- 
valent Honours Degree of recognised University. (ij) 
B.T. or equivalent. ا‎ -About five years’ teaching 
experience in recognised High or Higher Secondary School 
and/or College including about two years’ administrative 
experience, ا‎ Good knowledge +۱ 
tions relaxable at Commission’s discretion in case of 
candidates otherwise well qualified. 


9. One Principal, Basic Training College, Tripura. 
Post temporary, but likely to be made permanent. Pay:— 
Rs, 250—20—650—25—750. Higher initial pay to special- 
ly qualified and experienced candidate. Age:—Between 35 
and 45 years. Relaxable for permanent Government 
servants. Qualifications--Essentlal:—-(i) Master’s or equ- 
valent Honours Degree of recognised University. (ii) 
Degree/Diploma in Teachers’ Training, preferably in Basic 
Education. (iti) About three years’ teaching experience in 
Teachers’ Training Institution and/or Basic اس سو‎ 
including about one year's administrative experience. (iv) 
Knowledge of Bengali. Qualifications relaxable at Com- 
migsion’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise well 
qualified. 


s 


NOTICE 


IT is notified for general information that recruitment 
to posts of Assistant Employment Officer, Director- 
General of Resettlement and Employment, advertised in 
Commission's advertisement No. 38 of year 1964 which 
appeared on llth September 1954, has been cancelled. 
Application fees paid by the candidates will be refunded to 
them in due course. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 45(a) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Junior Assistant Architect under the Directorate of Works 
and Buildings in the West Bengal General Service. 


(1) Qualifications.— 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part I] of the 
Constitution of 10019. 


(21) A degree in Architecture of a recognised University 
or Associateship of the Royal Institute of British 
Architects or recognised equivalent qualification. 


(11) One year’s experience in an Architect's office or 
with the Architectural Section of some public 
body or of a Government department. 


Age should not be more than 35 years on Ist September 
1956, relaxable in exceptional cases. The upper age-limit 
is relaxable by five years for Scheduled Castea and 
Scheduled Tribes and up to 45 yeara for displaced persons 
from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxahle for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of Fast Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that 
Government, and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted wil he 
equal to the exact period of detontion, imprisonment 
internment or externmont sufferod up to a maximum of 
four years. 


(4) Pay.- The senlo of pay is 8۰ 0080-50-80) 
per month plus the দি allowances. Higher initial pay 
may be granted to an exceptionally qualified candidate. 


Part IT] THE CAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 238, 1956 O87 
হি. esas eee ee csr eta ae ea Ste SCT Sea eS 


(3) instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed 101) which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floar), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazette” of the Ist September 
1955, provided the blanks aro filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting, 


he application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 22nd September 1956. 


(4) Particulars and 09101608095 required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(6) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI—Miscellaneous—Receipts of the 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. Money orders, 
cheques, etc., in lieu of treasury chalans are not accepted. 
Postal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
They should be crossed and made payable to ‘The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No 
wpplication will be considered unless accompanied with the 
requisite application ۰ 


Candidates in Government service should make aure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the application he refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is % hona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
e.g., Telugee registration card or a cortificate from a 
wazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(i) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in originnhl from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature beloaging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(111) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that be is not in 
& position to pay the prescribed fee.”’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.-—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlixt support of their applications through persong of 
influence or officials of Government will dis অনি them 
Or appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
Persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known 
to them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 


ndia will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
٠ appomting authority of their posts or aervice. 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 17th August 1966, 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 8600) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a গর post of 
Assistant Professor of Bio-Chemistry, Bengal Veterinary 
College, m the West Bengal Veterinary Service. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) 278 of India an defined in Part 11 of the 
Constitution of India. 


(i) A good Master’s degree in Bio-Chemistry or 
Physical Chemistry or Organic Chemistry or 
Apphed Chemistry. 


(ii) ‘Two years’ research experience in Bio-Chemistry. 


(1৮) One year’s teaching expenence in a Veterinary or 
Medical or Science College. 


Desirable 


(i) Physiology as one of the subjects in the B.Bc. 
course. 


(ii) Knowledge of Bengali—written and spoken. 


Age ordinanly between 26 and 385 years on the 3181 
December 1956, relaxable for a candidate possessing 
exceptionally high qualifications and also for a person 
holding substantive appointment under the Central or a 
State Government. Upper age-limit is relaxable by five 
years tor Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 45 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Kast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of Kast Bengal after partition, but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 waa 
detained, imprisoned, interned or exterued on account of his 
activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in respect 
of the upper age-limit. The concession granted will be 
equal tq the exact period of detention, imprisonment 
internment or externment suffered up to a maximum و‎ 
four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scalo of pay is Rs, 250—20—650—25—750 
(15,13. after 10th and 18th stages) plus usual allowances. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Caleutta-27, personally or on sending ج‎ 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover ‘the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
لاو‎ the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘Calcutta Gazette’ of the 1st September 
1955, provided the blankg are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 22nd September 1956. 


(4) Particulars and oertificates required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more thah one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character, * 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of 
India under the head “XXXVI-—~Miscellaneous—Receipts 
of the Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. 
Money orders, cheques, ete., in eu of Treasury 
chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, however, 
may be accepted from candidates. They should صا‎ 
crossed and made payable to “The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’. No application — will 
be considered unless accompanied with the requisite 
application fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that’ their applications — will 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no cage will the 
fee paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of enuinely . 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


388 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATIGUST 23, 1946 


[Parr If 
"0 ee 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concossion 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that he is a bon fide displaced person’ from Pakistan, 
o.g., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
yzazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or State 


Legislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iti) A displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) mbove, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed ۰۶ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 


chango of address 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for uppoitment. Spontancous recommendation from 

ersons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
hem will be disregarded 


(8) Applications from candidates‘ who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


سہ۔ - 


+ 


8. 0. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 17th August 1956. 
0০০০ পটার 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 4800) 
APPLICATIONS are invited for a permancnt post of 
Disease Investigation Officer in the West Bengal Veterinary 


Service. حم‎ 


)1( Qualifieations.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part II of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) M.R.C.V.8. or M.Sc. in Veterinary Science; 
Or, 


A degree or a recognised diploma in Veterinary 
Science plus a Post-graduate degree or diploma 
in Veterinary Pathology, Bacteriology and 
Parasitology, or five years’ experience of the 
Investigation of animal disease, 


(iii) Knowledge of Bengali—-written and spoken, 


Desirable 


(1) Research experience in Veterinary Pathology or 
Bactcriology or Parasitology. 


(ii) Experience of Veterinary work in rural areas. 


Age ordinarily between 25 and 35 years on the 31st 
December 1956, relaxable for a candidate porsessing 
exceptionally high qualifications and also for na person 
holding substantive appointment under the Central er a 
State Government. Upper age-limit is relaxable by five 
years for Scheduled Castes/Tribes and up to 46 years for 
displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim Govern- 
ment servant m undivided Bengal who had originally 
opted to serve in East, Bengal and was working under the 
Government of East Bengal after partition, but has since 
formally resigned his service under that Government and 
has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country's struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
noral turpitude, shall he entitled to a concession in reapect 


of the -upper age-limit. The concession granted will be 
equal to the exact period of detention, imprisonment, 
internment or exterminent suffered up to a maximum of 
four yoars, 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Rs. 250—20—650—25— 
750 (K.B. after 10th and 18th stages) plus usual allowances, 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application, 
Applications are to be made on the হা form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a 
large self-addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar typed (not handwritten) form showing 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the ‘‘Calcutta Gazette’ of the lst September 
1955, provided the blanks are -filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 22nd September 1956, 


(4) Particulars and 08101908198 required.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character, 


(5) Fea.—Candidater must enclose with their epplica- 
tions a fee of Rs. in the form of ھچ‎ receipted 
chalan from a Government Treasury or the Reserve 
Bank of India under the head “XXXVJI—~Miscel- 
laneous—Receipts of the Public Service Commis- 
sien, West Benyal’’. Money orders, cheqnes, 9৮৫.) in lieu 
of treasury chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, 
however, may be accepted from candidates. They should 
he crossed and 07909 payable to “The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No application will be 
02 unless accompanied with the requisite application 
ee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
tee paid with the apphcation be refunded. 


_ The Commission may remit feo in case of genuinely 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Nove.—*'(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence that 
he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, e.g., 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a cortificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belonging. 
to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iii) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.” 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address 


(7) Canvassing.--Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enliat support of their spplications through persons o 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be disregarded. 


ও 
(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a loca 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) 11 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing wuthority of their posts or service. 


শি. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 


Public Service Commission, West Beneal. 


Alipore, the 17th August 1956, 


| 11 سے 


pont ap ILE COCAINE AI 
pment 


ও হা ৯৯ পপ পা এপ‏ جو 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 45(d) 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a temporary post of 
Preparatery School Mistress, Dow Hill Girls’ School, 
Kurseong, in the West Bengal General Service (Educa- 
tion). Men are unsuitable. 


(1) Quatifications.— 
Essential, 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part 1 of the 
Constitution of India. 


(ii) Preparatory School training at a recognised train- 
ing institution. 


(iii) Three years’ experience of teaching in the primary 
department of a school, 


Desirable 


A University degree and proficiency in music and 


elocution. 


Age not more than 30 years on Ist September 1956, 
rolaxable in the case of a candidate possessing excep- 
tionally high qualifications and also for a person serving 
in the Education Department, West Bengal. Upper age- 
limit relaxable by five yoars for Scheduled Castes / Tribes 
and up to 46 yeara for displaced persons from Pakistan. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 

vernment servant in undivided Bengal who had originally 
opted to serve in East Bengal and war working under the 
Government of East Bengal after partition, but has since 
formally resigned her service under that Government and 
has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
her activities in connection with the country’s strugglo 
for independence, not being convicted of an offence indi- 
cating moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession 
in respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will he equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of four years. 


(2) Pay..~The scale of pay is Rs. 250—10—350 per 
month plus usual dearness allowance. Free _ partly 
furnished quarters will be provided, occupiers’ share of 
Municipal tax and cost of electric current being payable 
by the incumbent, 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of application.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calceutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and apacing vf the samplo form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette’? of the Ist) September 1955, provided 
the blanks ure filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 22nd September 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates required,—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their ange, qualifications and 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. - 


(5) Fee.—-Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs. & in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India 
under the head “XXXVI—Miscellancous-—Receipts of the 
ublic Service Commission, West Bengal’. Money orders, 
cheques, تہ‎ in lieu of treasury chalans are not aecepted. 
oatal orders, however, may be accepted from candidates. 
hey should) be crossed and made payable to “The 
Secretary, Public Service Commission, West Bengal’. No 
application will be considered unless uccompanied with the 
requisite application fee. 


hee Badidates in Government service should make sure 
foro depositing fee that their শা will be for- 
warded by their superior officers. In no case will the fea 
Paid with the application be refunded, 


۸+ Commission may remit fee in case of 45 
digent and bona fide displaced persons from akiatan. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 


AUGUST 23, 1956 389 


= পুনে 


Note,—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence 
that ho ia a bona fide displaced persun from Pakistan, e.g., 
refugee registration card or ھ‎ certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, in 
original, 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer or 
a Member of Parliament or State Logislature belonging to 
the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, spocifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


_ (ili) A displaced person seeking remission of the applica- 
tion fee must furnish besides the evidence required under 
Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a District 
Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of Parliament or 
State Legislature to show that he is not in a position to 
pay the prescribed fee.’’ 


(6) Address.—Candidates should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change of address. 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them for 
appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from persons 
interested in the candidates or otherwise known to them 
will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation), in 
India will he rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


S. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 17th Amgust 1956. : 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement NO. 46 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a permanent post of 
Lecturer in General Science at the Post-graduate Basic 
Training College, Banipur, in the West Bengal Junior 
Educational Service. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part آ1‎ of the 
Conatitution of India. 


কক এ 
(11)-- 
(a) A first class 11876150186 اا٦‎ Science of an 


Indian University with second class B.T. degree 
or diploma in Teaching of a foreign University ; 


Or, 


(b) A second class Master’s degree im Science of an 
Indian University with a first class B.T. degree 
or a diploma in Teaching of a foreign University ; 


Or, 


(c) A good Master's degree in Education of an Indian 
University or a» Master’s degree in Education of 
a foreign University, with second class Master’s 
and/or Honours degree in Science of an Indian 
Univorsity. 


(11) Training in Basic Education or im the Progressive 
Methods of Child Education in India or abroad and 
ability to teach Methodology of Mathematics, 
Science, Geography and Biology. 


(1৮) Capacity to through the 
Bengali, 


lecture medium of 


Desirable 
(i) Proficiency in any craft. 
(ii) Ability to conduct field work. 


(iii) Teaching experience, preferably in Basic Training 
Institution. 


Age not more than 90 years on lat Septembor 1956, 
relaxable for an exceptionally qualified candidate and_ for 
n person serving in the Education Department, West 
Bengal. Upper age-limit is reluxable by five years for 
Scheduled Castes /Tribes and up to 45 years fur displaced 
persons from Pakistan. 


= 


390 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ATGUST 23, 1956 


[Parr 14 
4 


: পা : = : 0০০৮০৬০০৭৬০ رن جن‎ 
۴ 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim Gov- 
ernment servant in undivided Bengal who had originally 
opted to serve in Kast Bengal and Was working under the 
Government of East Bengal after partition, but has since 
formally resigned his service under tbat Government and 
has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the’ 15th August 1947 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on accuunt of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper age-limit. The concession granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, imprison- 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 


of four years. 


(2) Pay.—The scale of pay is Re. 200—10~—-420—15—- 
450 per month plus nsual dearness allowance. Question 
of granting higher initial pay may be considered in 
exceptional casen. 


(3) Instructions regarding submission of appliication.— 
Applications are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available from the office of the Public Service Com- 
mission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground floor), 
Alipore, Calcutta-27, personally or on sending a large self- 
addressed envelope with stamps sufficient to cover the 
postage affixed to it. Candidates who are unable to obtain 
copies of the prescribed form may apply on any similar 
typed (not handwritten) form showing exactly the word- 
ing and spacing of the sample form published in the 
“Calcutta Gazette” of the Ist September 1955, provided the 
blanks are filled up in the candidates’ own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 17th September 1956. 


(4) Particulars and certificates requiréd.—Candidates 
should furnish evidence of their age, qualifications and 
previons experienco together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their applications, 
from responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character. 


(5) Fee.—Candidates must enclose with their applica- 
tions a fee of Rs, 5 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
a Government Treasury or the Res&tve Bank of 
India under the head 7552৭ 
of the Pubhe Service Commission, West Bengal’’. 
Money orders, cheques, ete., in lieu of Treasury 
chaluns are not accepted. Postal orders, however, 
may be accepted from candidates. They should he 
crossed and made nayable to ‘The Secretary, Public 
Service Commission, West Bengal’’. No application will be 
টস unless accompanied with the requisite application 
99. 


Candidates in Government service should ‘make sure 
before depositing fee that their applications will be for- 
warded by their superior officers. In no case will the fee 
paid with the application be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of genuinely indi- 
gent and bona fide displaced persona from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘‘(i) A displaced person claiming age concession 
must furnish with his application satisfactory evidence that 
he is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan, 0.0. 
refugee registration card or a certificate from a gazetted 
officer or a Member of Perliament or State Legislature, in 
original. 


(11) A member of the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
or a Member of Parliament or State Legislature belong- 
ing to the Schéduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, specifying 
the particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(iti) ۸ displaced person secking remission of tho 
application fee must furnish besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from » 
District Officer or سم‎ yazetted officer or a Mewher of 
Parliament or State Legislature to show that he is not 


* 


In a position to pay the prescribed feo." 


(6) Address.—-Candidates should give their 771, 


address and should cor ] 
সি of کے‎ 77111510864 at once any subsequent 


(7) Canvassing.—Any attempt on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation froin 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known ty 
them will be disregarded. 


(8) Applications fram candidates who are in permaneéuy 
or temporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (¢.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. C, CHOWDHOURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 17th August 6. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 48 


APPLICATIONS are invited for a rermandgy post of 
Chief Law Instructor, Police Training College, Barrackpore, 
in the West Bengal General Service. 


(1) Qualifications.— 
Essential 


(i) Citizenship of India as defined in Part JI of the 
Constitution of India. 


’ (i) A degree in Law, preferably first class. 


(ii) Sound knowledge of Law and Statutory Police 
Rules, 


(iv) Practice at Criminal Courts for at least ten years. 


Desirable 


(i) experience as Public _Prosecutor or Assistant 
Public Prosecutor in districts. 


(11) Initiative and administrative ability. 


Age should ordinarily be between 35 and 45 years on Ist 
September 1956. The upper age-limit ie relaxable by 
5 years for Scheduled Castes / Tribes. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable for a non-Muslim 
Government servant in undivided Bengal, who had 
originally opted to serve in Fast Bengal and was working 
under the Government of East Bengal after partition but 
has since formally resigned his service under that Govern- 
ment and has come over to India as refugee. 


A candidate who before the 15th August 1047 was 
detained, imprisoned, interned or externed on account of 
his activities in connection with the country’s struggle for 
independence, not being convicted of an offence indicating 
moral turpitude, shall be entitled to a concession in 
respect of the upper aye-limit. The concerasion— granted 
will be equal to the exact period of detention, ۳۰ 
ment, internment or externment suffered up to a maximum 
of tour years. 


(4) Pay.—The scale of pay is Re, 250-—20-—430 (K.B.)— 
10-20-5900 H.)—810 —20----650-—25—-750, — Higher 
initial puy on the basis of age up to 35 years may be given 
to a deserving candidate not already in permanent 
Government service, 


(3) Instructions ۰ regarding submission of application.— 
পারিনা are to be made on the prescribed form which 
will be available trom the office of the Public Service 
Commission, West Bengal, Anderson House (ground 
floor), Alipore, Calentta-27, personally or on sending » 
large solf-addressed envelope with ‘stamps suffictent to 
cover the postage affixed to it. Candidates who are 
unable to obtain copies of the prescribed form may apply 
on any similar tvped (not handwritten) form showivg 
exactly the wording and spacing of the sample form 
published in the “Calcutta Gazotte” of the 1st September 
1955, provided the blanks are filled up in the candidates’ 
own handwriting. 


The application must be addressed to the Secretary and 
should reach him not later than the 17th September 194» 


(4) Particulars and ocertifirates required.—-Candidate» 
should furnish evidente of their aga, qualifications an 
previous experience together with certificates written not 
more than one year prior to the date of their application, 
irom responsible persons, testifying to their private 
character, 


part 17] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 2, 1956 aol 


রি‏ ویو رسس ances a AAS ata SS‏ سے ےم سے 

5) Fee.---Condidates must enclose with their applicn- 
tons م‎ fee of Re. 6 in the form of a receipted chalan from 
8 Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank _ of 
Indiw under the head “XXXVI ~Miscollaneous-—Keceipts 
of the Pubhe Service Commission, West Bengal’. 
Money orders, cheques, رہہ‎ in lieu of Treasury 
chalans are not accepted. Postal orders, however, 
may be accepted from candidates. They should be 
crossed and made payable to ‘The Secretary, Public 
Servico Commission, West Bengal’. No application will 
be considered unless accompanied with the requisite 
appl ication fee. 


Candidates in Government service should make sure 
pefore depositing fee that their applications will be 
forwarded by their superior officers. In no case will the 
fee paid with the appleation be refunded. 


The Commission may remit fee in case of শিক 
indigent and bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan. 


Note.—‘(i) A displaced person claimmg age concession 
must furnish with ۶ئ‎ application satisfactory evidence 
that he 1s a bone fide displaced person from Pakistan, 
eg., refugee registration card or a_ certificate from a 
gazetted officer or a Momber of Parliament or State 
Legislature, in original. 


(ii) A member of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled 
Tribes claiming age concession must furnish with his 
application a certificate in original from a gazetted officer 
من‎ a Member of Parhament or State Logislature belonging 
to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, specifying the 
particular caste or tribe to which he claims to belong. 


(1)) ۸ displaced person seeking remission of the 
application fee must furmsh besides the evidence required 
under Note (i) above, a certificate (in original) from a 
District Officer or a gazetted officer or a Member of 
Parhament or State Legislature to show that he is not in 
a position to pay the prescribed fee.’’ 


(6) Address.—-Candidates’ should give their present 
address and should communicate at once any subsequent 
change ot address. 

(7) Canvassing.—Any wie لا‎ on the part of candidates 
to enlist support of their applications through persons of 
influence or officials of Government will disqualify them 
for appointment. Spontaneous recommendation from 
persons interested in the candidates or otherwise known to 
them will be diaregarded. 


) 

(8) Applications from candidates who are in permanent 
or tetnporary employment under any Government, a local 
or Statutory Body (e.g., Damodar Valley Corporation) in 
India will be rejected unless they are submitted through 
the appointing authority of their posts or service. 


8. C. CHOWDHURI, Secretary, 
Public Serviceo Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 17th August 6. 


Advertisement 


APPLICATIONS are invited from Indian citizens to fill 
£ temporary post of Librarian of the Central Library at 
Kautpore in 24-Paiganas im the scale of Rs, 200—-10—420— 

450 plus the usual allowances as admissible under the 
নন The post is at present sanctioned on yoar to year 
sis, 


Qualifications. 
Essential 


(i) H.A. or B.Se. degree with Honours or Distinction of 
wnt Indian University or equivalent foreign degree. 
Proficiency in English and Bengali. 


(1) A degree or diploma in Tabrarianship of a recognised 
Miversity or any Association recognised ىا‎ 
Government. - 


Qi) Practical exporienco in Librarianship for about two 
years, 


Desirable 


(1) Degree or diploma in Socwl work or traming m 
Social Education. 


(ii) Ability to edit and publish library bulletins and 
ibrary news, 


(iin) Knowledge ئن‎ handling modern Audio-Visual 
Qpparntus such as Cine-projector,  epidiascope, 
৪700) and glide projector, etc. 


Age-iimit.—35 years. May be relaxed in case of candi- 
dates with exceptional qualifications. 


The upper age-limit is relaxable by five years for membere 
of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. No age 
restriction shall apply in case of displaced persons from 
Pakistan 


_ A member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe claim- 
Ing age concessions mugt furnish with hia application an 
attested copy of certificate from a Gavetted Officer or 
M.L.A. or M.L.C. belonging to Scheduled Caste or 
Scheduled Tribe specifying the particular caste or tribe to 
which he belongs. 


A displaced person claiming age concession must furnish 
with his application satisfactory evidence that he is a bona 
fide displaced person, e.g., attested copy of a refugee 
registration card or a certificate from a avatted Officer 
or M.L.A. or M.L.C. 


Officers already in Government service may apply 
through proper channel. 


Canvassing of any description will be regarded as 
disqualification. 


Applications in the following form (manuscript or typed) 
with attested copies of Matriculation certificate, degree or 
diploma in Librarianship and testimonials should be made 
so as to reach the Director of Public Instruction, West 
Bengal, Writers’ Buildings, Calcutta, on or before 25th 
August 1956. 


1, Name of the post: 


ad 


Name of the candidate: 
3. Father's name: 

4 Home address: 

Present address: 


Age on the Ist September 1956: 


oP ج‎ 


Educational qualifications with dates ond divisions of 
each examination passed: 


8. Special qualifications, if any, in detail: 


9. Experience, stating details of work done with periods 
indicating the places served: 


10. Present employment, if any: 
11. Signature and date: 


OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL, WEST 
BENGAL 


A COMPETITIVE examination will he held early in 
October 1956, to recruit about 60 Senior Accounts Clerke 
for employment in the various offices of the Executive 
Engineers under the Government of West Bengal. The 
subjects in which the candidates will be cxamined are (i) 
Kssay or Precis and Draft. (ii) Elementary Book-Keeping, 
and (ii) Arithmetic and Mensuration. The precise dates 
of the examination will be intimated individually only to 
those whose candidatures are accepted. 


The scale of pay is Rs. 80—4—]60—5—180 (Efficiency 
Bar after the 12th stage) plus the usual dearness and other 
nilowances as adinissible from time to time under the rules 
of the Govyertiment of West Bengal. Appointments will be 
temporary for the present hut may become permanent in 
due course, Successful candidates have also the prospect 
of becoming Divisional Accountants on passing the 
prescribed departmental examination. Al} appointments 
carry hability to serve anywhere under the Government of 
West Bengal, 


Candidates should be Graduates of ج‎ recognised 
University. They should either be domiciled in West 
Bengal or have domiciliary qualifications for service under 
the Government of West Benyal. Age should not exceed 
24 years on the Ist October 1056. Rolaxatton may be 
permitted up to 90 years ordinarily and up to 33 years in 
very special cases in favour of clerks with experience of 
two years in the Accounts Branch of a P.W. Division or 
in the Works Audit Department of the Accountant- 
Goneral’s Office. The age-limit in respect of bone fide 
displaced persons may be relaxed by three years, if approved 
hy the State Government, Anv candidate, who is already 
in service, should apply through tho ead of his office. 


Appheation forms and further particulars may be obtain- 
ed from the Supermtendent, W.M. Section of this office, 
hetween 2 p.m and 3 p.m. on any working day except 
Saturdays, or by sending him a self-addressed large-sised 


atumped envelope. 


392 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


Application forms, duly filled in, should be either handed 
in personally in return for an acknowledgement or sent by 
registered post. 10 either case, they should be accompanied 


by 2 

(i) a Treasury Chalan (in original) for Rs. 7-8 (Rs. 1-14 

for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candi- 

datos) creditable to the head “XX XV1I—Miscella- 

noous Departments——Central—Miscellaneous— 
Examination Fees’’; 


(ii) Original Matriculation certificate ; 


(iii) Original University degree, or a provisional certi- 
ficate issued by the Principal of a college in 
anticipation of the award of a degree at a 


Convocation; and 


(iv) Gopies (attested by a Gazetted Officer) of two 
certificates of good character issued during the last 


two years. 


The appftcations should reach this office on or before the 
8th September 1956. : 


8. L. BHALLA, 
Senior Deputy Accountant-General (Works). 


IN THE COURT OF THE OISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 


ہے پت 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 11 1959 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Thakur Prosad Shaw, 
son of Shri Kali Prosad Shaw, of Protappur, police-station 
Chinsurah, district Hooghly, has been finally discharged on 


the 28th day of July 1956. 
N. L. SHOME, District Judge. 


Dated Chinsurah, the llth August 1956. 
(661—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 9 OF 1955 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Khagendra Nath Pal 
alias Khagendra Nath Pal Majumdar, son of Shri Rohini 
Kumar Pol Majumdar, resident of Konnagore, Masterpara, 
police-station Uttarpara, district Hooghly, has been 
adjudged an insolvent on the 28th day of July 1956 and the 
24th September 1956 has been fixed for framing the 


schedule thereof, 
N. L. SHOME, District Judge. 


Dated Chinsurah, the 13th August 1956. 
(662—1) 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
HOOGHLY 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 6 OF 1954. 
NOTICE is hereby given that Sk. Abdul Sabur, son of 
Sk. Abdul Khebir, of Molla Simla, police-station Singur, 
district Hooghly, ha» applied to this Court on the lst day 


of August 1956, for final diseharge and the 22nd day of 
September 1956, hax been fixed for hearing thereof. 


N. L. SHOME, District Judge. 
Dated Chiusurah, the 14th Augnat 1956. 
(866—1) 


{Parr I] 
“3 


I, SYAMA CHARAN BANERJI, M.A.. LL.B., i 
to be enrolled as an Advocate, Calcutta High দিও 


(619—4) 


DAYA SHANKAR CHATURVEDI, LUL.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 


(631—4) 


I, MANIK CHANDRA RAY CHOUDHURY, LL.B. 
intend to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. ° 


(6824) 


VIJAY SINGH BENGANI, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 
(646—4) 


নি 


I, ANATH BONDHU PAL, LL.B., intend to 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Galoutte. 0+000 
(6০---1) 


I, ASWINIKUMAR SIL, LL.B., intend to 0 lled 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Caloutis. 0ء‎ 
(651—4) 


1, ARUN KUMAR SARKAR, LL.B., intentl to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutt». 


~ (652—4) 


SHRI MANORANJAN BASU, B.L., intends to be an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 
(657—4) 


SANTI RANJAN SENGUPTA, LI1.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 


(659-— 4) 


VISHW AS NATH MEHRA LI..B., intends to be 
aurulled o8 an Advocate of the Caleutts High Court. 


(660—t) 


Part IT] 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office of 
issuo aro stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value has been recoived from the person/ 

arty whose names are shown against the numbers. Any- 
other person/party who consider(s) himself /themselves as having 


a right to them is/are warned to communicate at once with 
the undersigned :— 


Register No, Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Re, 
W.D. 6/56-57 = H/8-518213 100 Shri Ajetali Mondol, 
indi). village Harbati, 


H/3-634862 100 


-634 post office Mashunda, 
দি indi 
13-433108 100 


district 24-Parganas. 


(Hindi). 
W. 0, 7/56-57 11-1 100 Shri 0, Mullick 27/6 
(Hindi). Ramkanta Mistry 
Lane, Calcutta, 
W.D. 8/56-57 H 3-735240 100 Sm. Kesari Debi, 45 
(Hindi), Forest Road, Howrah 
H/7-951628 100 
(non-Hindi). 


H/9-073878 100 
(non-Hindi). 
H/14-683469 100 


(non-Hindi), 
H/12-854292 100 
12) 

/4-280025 100 

(Hindi), 


W.D. 9/56-57 16-56 100 Shri Sangat Ram Kak. 
(non-Hindi), ria, 1270 Chandni 


Chowk, Delhi. 


P, KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 28th 
July 0۰ 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of tho following notes of the Calcutta office of 
issue are stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers, Any 
other person/party who considor(s) himself/themselves as 


right to them is/are warned to communicate at once‏ با یت 
with the undersigned :—‏ 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 


the applicant. 
Re, 


A/51-858715 100 Mest. Dhan Kaur, wife 
of late Phula Singh, 
village Mehandipur, 
سا‎ office Mukerian, 

istrict Hoshiarpur. 


W.D. 18/56-57 


W.D, 14/56-57 17117578108 100 Shri Amar Singh, B.A., 


(Hindi). Managing Officer, 
Civil Seoretariat, 

Jullundur City, 
W.D, 15/56-57 1645 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 
Hindi). 46/122 Badshahi 

/0-473534 100 Naka, Kanpur, 

(non Hindi). 
W.D. 16/56-57 H/11-555052 100 Shri Shiw Narayan 
(Hindi). Jhawar, c/o, Hanu- 
H/2-621973 100 man Storo, 188 
(non-Hindi). Singha Road, post 
office and  distriot 
09990879187 


۶. KARUNAKARAN, Curronoy Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, [8809 Dopartment, Caloutta, the 159 
August 6+ 


THE CALCUITA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1956 


$93 


NOTES 


_ PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office of 
issue ure stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
peaymeht of their value has been received from the person / 
party whose names aro shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himeelf/themselves وع‎ 


having ہ‎ right to them is/are warned to communi 
, cate at once 
with the undersigned :— 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 

the applicant. 
Ra. 

W.D. 10/56-57 B/61-919523 100 Shri Asrar Ahmad, vil- 
lage Dolair Ganj, poat 
office Gotni, gdilgtriot 
Partabgarh. 


W.D. 11/56-57 56 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 


(non-Hindi), 46/122 Badshahi 
A/19-985885 100 Naka, Kanpur. 
B/71-746656 100 


W.D. 12/56-67 A/20-959690 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 
B/80-184151 100 46/122 Badshahi 
B/6-124586 100 Naka, Kanpur, 
H/11-395463 100 


(non-Hindi). 


۶۰ KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, 78809 Department, Calcutta, the 30th 
July 1986, 


STOLEN 


THE Government Promissory Notes Nos. CA067478, 
CA067265, CA125944 and CAQ81696 of the 3 per cent. 
Conversion loan of 1946 for Rs. 1,000, Rs. 500, Rs. 200 and 
Rs. 100 originally standing in the name of Imperial Bank 
of India, Imperial Bank of India, Murari Mohan Banerjee 
and Corporation of Calcutta, respectively, and last endorsed 
to Kanai Lal Ghose and Krishna Chandra Ghose or either 
of them or order the proprietors, by whom they were never 
endorsed to any person, havihg been lost, stolen or 
destroyed, notice is hereby given that payment of the 
above notes and the interest hereupon have been stopped 
dt the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank of India, Calcutta, 
and that application is about to be made for the issue of 
the duplicates in favour of the proprietors. The ور‎ are 
cautioned against purchasing or otherwise dealing with 
the abovementioned securities. 


KANAI] LAL GHOSE AND KRISHNA CHANDRA 
GHOSE. 


C/o. Shri Hari Hor Sett. 
Palpara, Chandernagore. 


(665—3) 


RETIREMENT FROM PARTNERSHIP 


PUBLIC notice ig, hereby given thaf the undersigned 
has retired from the চির firm of Mohanlal Soniram 
of No. 1 Dayahatta Strect, Calcutta, from 25th July 1956 
and that Shri Debidutt Bhalwalla is since then the sole 
proprietor of that firm. 


1 Dayahatta Street, ٥0۵ھ1۰‎ 


: GANPATROY BHALWALLA. 


(663-—1) 


994 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


National Library. 


IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Reading Rooms andthe Lending Section at Belvedere have 
been extendet, with effect from the 16th August 1958. The 


revised working hours are specified below:— 


Reading Rooms— 


Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 


Sundays and holidays—10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 


Lending Section— 


Week days (including Saturdays)}—10 a.m, to 5 p.m 


Sundays and holidays—1l0 a.m. to 1-30 p.m. 


The Reading Kooms and the Lending Section will, how- 
ever, remain entircly closed on the following days of the 


year:— 


(1) Republic Day, (ii) Independence Day and (iii) 


Mahatma Gandhi's Bi Day. 


Persons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open tw 
any one residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
18 no subscription to pay but security in cash is essential. 


B. 8. KESAVAN, 
Librarian. 


Belvedere, Oalcutta-27, the 6th March 1964. 


[Parr T] 


registered No, C207 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1956 


PART V—Acts of the Parliament of India assented to by the President 
and Ordinances promulgated by the President 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA. 
Ministry of Law 


The Following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 13th June, 1956 and is hereby published 
for general information :— 


ACT NO. XXIX OF 1956 


THE TRAVANCORE-COCHIN STATE LEGISLATURE 
(DELEGATION OF POWERS) ACT, 1956 


[18th June, 1966.] 


An Act to confer on the President the power of the Legis- 
lature of the State of Travancore-Cochin to make laws. 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows: — 


1. This Act may be called the Travancore-Cochin Short title. 
State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1956. 


2. In this Act, ‘‘Proclamation’’ means the Proclamation Definition. 
issued on the 23rd day of March, 1956, by the President 
under clause (4) of Article 356 of the Constitution. 


3. (1) The power of the Legislature of the State of conferment 
Travancore-Cochin to make laws, which has been declared on the 
by the Proclamation to be exercisable by or under the autho- President 
rity of Parliament, is hereby conferred on the President. ۰ ۵ 


(2) In the exercise of the said power, the President may, 
from time to time, whether Parliament is or is not in.session, ature. 
enact as a President’s Act a Bill containing such provisions 
as he considers necessary : 


Provided that before enacting any such Act, the President 
shall, whenever he considers it practicable to do so, consult 


THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 86 


[5487 


smilie ia a ৯টি নন রন সিসির সি নি 


a committee constituted for the purpose consisting of four- 
teen members of the Kouse of the People nominated by the 
Speaker and seven members of the Council of States nomi- 
nated by the Chairman. 


(3) Every Act enacted by the President under sub-section 
(2) shall, as soon as may be after enactment, be laid before 
each House of Parliament. 


(4) Hither House of Parliament may, by resolution passed 
within seven days from the date on which the Act hag been 
laid before it under sub-section (3), direct any modifications 
to be made in the Act and if the modifications 
are agreed to by the other House of Parliament during the 
session in which the Act has been so liad before it or the 
session succeeding, such modifications shall be given effect 
to by the President by enacting an amending Act under 
sub-section (2): ۱ 


Provided that paige in this sub-section shall affect the 
validity of the Act or of any action taken thereunder before 
it is so amended. 


K. Y. BHANDARKAR, Secy. 


Registered No. C207 No. 34 of 1956 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1956 


CONTENTS: 


Pages. 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of Weat °F 
Bengal for the week ending the 9th 


August 1956 ee te ee 617—518 


Final Forecast of Bhadoi Crops of West Bengal 
for the year 1955-56 os -» 619--624 


SUPPLEMENT—Official Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., for the week ending the 9th August 1956. 


Summary.——During the wock under report there was rainfall in thirty-six subdivisions. Tho weather conditions were unfavourable 
in seven subdivisions. Transplantation of Aman continued in some subdivisions. 


The condition of the standing crop was on the whole fair. The fodder was reported to be insufficient in eighteon subdivisions and 
cattle-disease was reported from two subdivisions. 


The wages of the labourer varied from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight during the week under report. 
Total The minimum 
rainf 


all oe of coarse Character of Stage and$progress of Searcity of Prospects of Fodder Catth. Labo 
Districts and during fice in seers per weather and ite] agricultural opers- seed, ifany. thestanding condition. disease, without food. 
subdivisions. the rupee. effect on the tions, orops 
week, standing crops. (cetlmated 
This Previous outéura) 
weeki+ 98668. 
1 2 808) ৪৫) 4 6 6 ۲ 8 9 10 
24-Parganas. 
Sadar ay ‘88 2 2 Favourable .. Transplantation 7 Good Insufficient No roport Ra 1-8, 
pe progressing 
Diamond Harbour 6:52 2 2 Ditto a Ditto Re Ze Satisfactory Sufficient Ditto . Ra, 1-10. 
Barrackpore .. wi 2 2 Ditto ৪ Ditto -. Scarce .» Bad 1ھ‎ 1 Ditto Re 2, 
Baraset os 1:47 2 2 Ditto র Ditto .« Bufficient .. Not good Ditto Ditto Rea. 1-12. 
Basirhat ঠা 2:06 2 2 Ditto .. Field prepara- Ditto ., 7 Not good Ditto .. ھھ‎ 1-8, 
tion going on. 
Bongaon ar 2-04 2 1 16/16 Ditto .» Transplantation Ditto ., ‘ Unsatisfactory Ditto. Ra. 2, high. 
of Aman con- 
tinued. 
Nadia. 
Badar 65 118,16 1 18/16 Unfavourable ت0‎ রি Sufficient .. es 8 ۹ No report .. Ra, 1-10. 
Us ab Uu 
commenced. 
Ranaghat 2۰80 114/16 1918/16.,Favourable ., Intercultural Ditto Fair Ditto Re. 1-8. 
ny operation going 
on. 
Murshidabad. 
Radar ম 070 114/16 1114/16 Unfayourable Wendy of 1 Scaroe - Not good Normal No report Ra, 1-19. 
iar n ৬ 
gress. 
Lalbagh ۱ 0-6 1415/16 118/16 Ditto ., Aman trans- Fair Satisfactory Ditto .. Be. 1-4 
পপ plantation 
atopped due to 
0806 
Kandi = 7 2 2 2/16 Ditto Transplantation Insuffioiend Ditto . Ra. 144. 
2/16 1 a ] ون‎ 
pered due to 
rain. 
Jangipur 0 89 118/16 112/16 Ditto Aus, jute and - 68 Good Normal Ditty . Bs. 2-8, 
80081088100 con- 
tinued. 
Burdwan, 
Sadar 7 Favourable Transplantation Sufficient . Qood Unsatisfactory . Rs, 1-12. 
1:87 116/16 115/10 Favoura দল 
mal. 
Asango} ae) 9816 86 Ditto ৯৬৪৪ Ditto ., Ditto . Vair .» Noreport .. Rs, 1-8, 
Katwa ۱ nfavourable § Ploughing of Ditto ,. Fair Ditto ,. Ditto . Re. 1-10. 
7 1-80 116/16 116/16 01048 বশ 
due to drought, 


Kalna . Transplantion Ditto Ditto Unaatistactory Ditto . مھ‎ 2. 
রা তা 114/16 Fair ran ape ay 


Cattle. 
disease, 


Unsatisfactory No report 


Ditto ., 


No report .. 


Ditto... 


No report. 


Reported .. 
No report .. 


Ditto ., 
Ditto... 


Nu report . 


Ditto .. 
Ditto... 
Ditto... 


No report .. 


Ditto... 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto... 


Reported 


No report 


Ditto 


No report », 


Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 


518 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 
Total ‘The minimum 
ralpfal) price of coarse Character of Stage and progress of peng J of Prospects of Fodder 
Districts and daring tice In ecers per weatherand its agricultural opera- seed, | 819. Ueatanding condition, 
subdivisions. the Tupoo. effect on. the tions. crops 
week,  پمےسسسصسسس‎ standing cropa. (estimated 
This Previous outtarn). 
wook. wook, 
1 2 806). 800) 4 5 6 7 8 
Birbhum. 

Sadar 1-71 115/16 114/16 Favourable Trasnplantation Sufficient Falr 
6. 

85001012196 5,289 115/16 115/16 Unfavourable Ditto : Ditto .. Ditto 

Bankura, ; 

Sadar 8-12 21/16 21/16 Beasonable .. Transplantation Sufficient Fair .- Bufficient ১, 
continued. 

Vishuupur -7 8۰1868 2 2 Favourablo .,. Ploughing the Ditto... Ditto .. Ditto .. 

field continued. 
Midnapore. 
Sadar (North) .. 21/16 21/16 Peer Transplantation Sufficient Fair Sufficient 
: of Aman in 
progress. 

Sadar (South) .. ee 2 1/16 2 1/16 ৪ ৬৪৪ وو ٭ھ‎ ৬৬ رم‎ 

Contal 4:62 114/16 1 15/16 Beasonable.. নও Sufficient Fair .. Insufficient 

Tamluk xs 1۰88 2 2 Favourable .. Transplantation টিং Ditto 

of Aman brisk. 

Ghatal ax 0:80 21/16 21/16 Ditto ea Ditto ea om wa Fair ৮ 

Jhargrawn a 2°96 21/16 2 Ditto 7 Ditto 7 7 7 এজ 
Hoeghly. : 
Sadar 1°14 112/16 112/16 Favourable Transplantation 7 Fair Insufficient 
of Aman brisk. 
86٣ ۰48 112/16 6 Ditto re ے‎ Ditto .. 64 Ditto Available 
Aram bagh 1:66 2 1 15/16 Ditto ‘ Ditto Ditto... Ditto .. Sufficient 
Chandernagore.. oi 112/16 112/16 Ditto i Ditto on Ditto Ditto Available 
Howrah. 
Sadar is a 115/16 1 15/16 suas eWay নি ۲ a 
Uluberia -۰ ee 115/16 1 15/16 ere ones রি 7 
Jalpaiguri. 7 
Sadar ۰ 1-27 11215 86 رن‎ Bowing of Aman ors Insufficient 
seeds continued. 
Alipurduar 6°59 114/16 1 14/16 وھ کے ا‎ sie oe Sufficient ২, 
Darjeeling. 
Hadar .. Mode- 110/16 110/16 Cloudy Sowing and Sufficient Fair Bufficient 
rate. . transplantation 
of paddy 
continued. 

Kurseong 11°20 112/16 112/16 Wet . Harvesting of Ditto ‘ Ditto Ditto 
summer veget- 
able nearly 
completed. 

Siliguri 1۰64 “115/16 2 Favourable Transplantation Ditto .. Ditto ., 
of Aman started, 

Kalmpong 2-00 114/16 115/16 مااا(‎ Transplantation Ditto Ditto Sufficient 
of millet begun. 

Maida. 0-48 114/16 113/16 Favourable Aman trans- Sufficient .. Fair .. Tisuffioient 
lantation con- 
nued. 
West 01788) 6881. 
Sadar - 1۰00 114/16 114/16 Favourable sp it of Sufficient Falr Insufficient 
. ute ৪ : 

Raiganj ‘50 114/16 1 18/16 নত Transplantaion Ditto Ditto Sufficient .. 
of Aman : 
continued. 

Gooch Behar. 

Hadar ae ٠ 1 14/16 ৫৪৪৬০ 4৩১৪৪ رف‎ ae ae 

Dinhata 1-77 114/776 NLR. Favourable سرت ہی ای‎ Sufficient Fair 8۲11064 
0 man 
continued. 

Mathabhanga .. 114/186 114/16 Ditto 7 Ditto Ditto... Ditto Ditto 

Mekliganj 415/16 2 Ditto Ditto Ditto Ditto ھ11‎ ۷۶۷ 

Tuffangan} ae 7 1 14/16 114/16 Unfavourable Ditto 2. Ditto... Ditto ., Ditto 

N.B.—No report. 


Calcutta, the 17th August 1956. 


Labour w 
without ود‎ 


10 


Rs, 1-8, normal, 


Re. 1-10. 


Ra, 1-10, 


Ra, 1-4, 


Ra, 1-8, 


Ra. 1-12, high. 


Ra. 1-8, low. 
Rs. 1-4, normal. 


Ras. 1-10. 


Rs, 1-10. 
Re. 1. 
Rs. 1-10. 


৬৬৬৭৫ 


Ra, 2. 


Rs. 2, 


Rs. &. 


Ra. 2. 


Re, 2... 


Rs. 2, high. 


Ra. 1-8, 


Ra, 1-10, normal. 


Ra. 2. 


nega 


Rx, 1-12. 


Ra, ۱۰ 
Rs. 1-12. 
Ra. 2. 


S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal. 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 83, 1956 519 


—_— 


DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE, WEST 
BENCAL 


Jaleutta, the 18th January 1960. 


Final Forecast of Bhadoi 
Autumn rice, Autumn 
chillies and tea) of 
1955-56. 


Crops (other than 
pulses, Autumn 
West Bengal for 


{Note.—The figures of average yield rates of the 
composite crops, ۶٥٠ر‎ bhadoi fruits, bhadoi 
vegetables, other bhadoi food crops, bhadoi 
fodder crops (other than jowar, bajra, marua 
and maize), lbhadoi non-food crops (other 
than fodder and fibres) and bhadoi fibres 
(other than jute and sunnhemp) as shown in 
the forecast have been shown as percentages 
of their normal yields sper acre. | 


Season.—The weather conditions have generally 
been favourable in all the districts of West Bengal 
except Jalpaiguri. 


Area and yield.-—-The total area sown with 
\lifferent bhadoi crops included in the forecast is 
estimated at 336,000 acres this year compared to 
405,200 acres of last year. 


Juwar.—4,]00 acres are estimated to be under 
jowar crop this year compared to 3,900 acres 
last year. The total outturn of the crop for the 
State as a whole ia estimated at 1,100 tons this 
year compared to 1,100 tons last year. The 
average yield rate per acre of the crop for the 
State as a whole 19 estimated at 7.05 maunds this 
year compared to 7.62 maunds last year. 


Bajra.—300 acres are estimated to be under 
bajra crop this year compared to 400 acres last 
year. The total outturn of the crop for the State 
as a whole is estimated at 100 tons this year com- 
pared to 100 tons last year. The average yield 


rate per acre of the crop for the State as a whole 
is estimated at 6.50 maunds this year comparad 
to 6.60 maunds last year. 


Maize.—125,600 acres are estimated to be 
under maize crop this year compared to 117,200 
acres last year. The total outturn of the crop 
for the State as a whole is estimated at 37,000 
tons this year compared to 33,300 tons lust year. 
The average yield rate per acre of the crop for the 
State as » whole is estimated at 8.03 maunds this 
year compared to 7.74 maunds last year. 


Ragt.—23,800 acres ure estimated to be under 
ragi croup this year compared to 23,900 acres last 
year. The total outturn of the crop for the State 
as a whole is estimated at 5,500 tons this year 
compared to 5,200 tons last year. The average 
yield rate per acre of the crop for the State as a 
whole is estimated ut 6-30 maunds this year com- 
pared to 5.97 maunds last year. 


Other cereals.—9,500 acres are estimated to he 
under other cereals this year compared to 6,300 
acres last year. The total outturn of other cereals 
for the State as a whole is estimated at 2,100 tons 
this vear compared to 1,400 tons last year. The 
average yield rate per acre of other cereals for the 
State as a whole is estimated at 6.12 maunds this 
year compared to 6.11 maunds last year. 


Sunnhemp.—13,200 acres are estimated to be 
under sunnhemp crop this year compared _ to 
14,100 acres last year. The total outturn of the 
crop for the State as a whole is estimated at 
23,500 bales this year compared to 20,070 bales 
last year. The average yield rate per acre of the 
crop for the State aaa whole is estimated at 
1.78 bales this year compared to 1.42 bales last 
year. 


S. N. MUKHERJEE, 
for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal 


Final Forecast of Bhadoi Crops of West Bengal for 1955-56 


Area in 8৫০, 
Diateios. Name of the erop. 
Last year. This year. 
A4-Parganas . 80۵٣ 
Bajra 7 7 : 
Indian corm (maize) es $00 800 


Marus, mandua or ragi 
Other bhadol oergals 


BRetimated outturn per acre. 


Date by which the 


Bhadoi fruits ۰ 
Bhadol vegotables including root 15,200 16,100 
Other bhadol food crops 600 eH) 
Bhadoi fodder orop other thas 

jowar, bajra, marua and maize oe 
Bhadoi sunnhemp র্‌. ৪০০ 700 
Bhadoi non-food orops other tha 

fooder and fibres রর 
ডা ৭ other mee jute = "120 sae 


Mulberry .. 
Inadige 


Petal 


adage শি harvesting of the‏ حم 
Last year. This year crop xetnerally‏ 
eommenced this ۵۳ Remarks‏ 
and whether that‏ 
date was early,‏ 
normal or late.‏ 
4 
mds. . 6:00 mda.‏ 8-00 
per cent. 80 per cent.‏ 80 
percent. .. 80percent. ..‏ 16 
percent. .. & percent.‏ 80 
ee 0 August to Septem- The weather হা‏ 
ber, normal. tions have ean‏ 
৮519 .. 1:40 bales favourahie.‏ 1:40 
৪7 9908, . &0 per sent.‏ 80 


eres 


8709 £8,200 


০০ 


520 


District. 


Nadia 


Murshidabad 


Burdwan 


ری 


eo 


SUPPLEMENT TO 


Area 


ہہ سم 


in acres. 


Name of the erop. 


Jowar.. ae a4 


400 * 700 
Bajra_.. os we oe ee 
Indlan corn (maize) ae 400 200 
Marua, mandua or ragi és oe a 
Other bhadol cereals Ka 200 200 
Bhadol frouta - ee 1,100 1,200 
Bhadoi vegetable including root 
crops oe ae 7,000 8,000 
Other bhadoi food crops 7٦ 300 4,200 
Bhadoi fodder orop other than 
jowar, bajra, maura and maize 400 2,600 
Bhadoi sunnhemp .. oe ee 100 
Bhadoi non-tood crops other than 
fodder and fibres << وو‎ we 
Bhadol fibres other than jute and 
sunnhemp oe oe 700 5,900 
Mulberry... os ee oe ৮ 
Indigo ہہ‎ oe ve ve ee 
Total a> 16,500 23,100 
Jowar .سح‎ ee os 2,900 2,800 
۰ 0 ++ as 100 100 
Indian corn (maize) 7 2,200 2,000 
Marua, mandua or ragi ৮ کے‎ 
Other bhadoi cereals 7 800 800 
Bhadoi fruits +4 7 4,000 4,000 
Bhadol vegetables 08 root 
crope .. os 7,700 7,800 
Other bhadol food crops + رو‎ 1,400 1,800 
Bhadol fodder crops other than 
jowar, bajra marua and maize 500 800 
পা 
Bhadoi sunnhemp 600 400 
Bhadoi non-food crops other و‎ 
fodder and fibres ক oe 
Bhadoi fibres other than jute and 
sunnhomp ee <2 600 600 
Mulberry... a0 o0 800 400 
Indigo .. ٠ ee oe ee 


টি 
Last year. This year. 


t 
Ratimated outturn per ٥۰ 


موس ریہ আতা‏ سس شی سا مس (শি‏ 


Last year. This year. 
6:00 mds. 7°00 mds. 7 
7°00 mds. -» 7:00 mds. 

8:00 mds. 10:00 mds... 
60 percent. .. 80 percent. 


70 percent. .. 8017১616618, .. 


60 percent. .. 80 percent. ., 


70 percent. .. 
1:50 bales... 


60 percent. .. 


sees ese 


70 percent. .. 80 [১61 060৮, .. 


eve 


ore eee 


৪00 7008. .. 7:00 7108, *, 
7-50mds.. ., 7150 mds... 
9:50 mds. ee 9:00 mds. ee 
4۰50 mds. ee 500 mds. o@¢ 


65 percent. .. 7Opercent. .. 


96 percent. .. 80 percent. 


85 percent. .. 80 091 ০6116. .. 


90 percent. .ہس‎ 90 percent. ہمہ‎ 


1:40 bales .., 2:00 bales 7 


ও ৬ ae 


100 per cent. . 
175-00 mds. رم‎ 


100 per cent... 
155-00 mds. ee 


ক 


e@eoe8 رف‎ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 6 


Date by which the ~ 
harvesting of the 
crop = generally 
commenced this year 
and whether that 
date was oarly, 
norma) or late. 


August.September, 
normal. 


July, normal .. 


Total 7 21,600 21,000 “aun eens 

Jowar ,. ee 7 ee 8 sone saat 
Bajra ১৭ ee ee oe oe see eens 
Indian Corn (Matze) 7 400 400 6-00mds. ., 8:00 ہے قد‎ 
88708, mandua or 1881 as es ae وص ٭‎ 
Other bhadol crereals as we 100 وو‎ 400 
Bhadoi fruits 7 7 200 200 75 56۲ .ا67‎ .. 25 061 0006, .. 
71901 vegetables including بس سو‎ 

crops .. a ۱ 4,400 4,500 S85percent. .. O0percent. .. 
Other bhadoi food crops 7 oe ee ase “٠ 
Bhado!l fodder crops other than 

jowar, bajra, marua and malze 100 100 7Opercent. ., 7Opercent. ., 
Bhadol sunnhemp .. fae 1,800 2,000 1:8 bales ہے‎ 1:90bales.. 
Bhadol non-food crops other sc 

fodder and fibres 2,200 2,200 65percent. .. G5percent. .. 
Bhadol fibres other than jute and و‎ 

sunnhemp 7 a 900 2,600 65 per cent. .. Ohpercent. .. 
۰۰ء گ2‎ আত 8“ ee oe ৮৯৪০ eee 
indigo ہہ‎ 8 oe oe 7 ہے 26ھ‎ 

Totai ১৭ 10,000 880 0ھ‎ 


September-Octo- 
r, normal. 


Remarks, 


The weather 
tions have 
favourable. 


The weather 


condi. 
been 


condi. 


tions have been on 


the whole 


tions have 


fair. 


fair, 


The weather condi. 


10600 


District. 


Birbhum .. 


Bankura 


Midnapore 


« 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 28, 1956 621 
Area In acres. Estimated outturn per acre. Date by which the 
Name of the crop. পি کٹ-‎ পাশা সাপ ———, harvesting of the 
Last year. This year. Last year. This year. crop gonerally 
commenced this year Remarks. 
and whether that 
date was early, 
normal or late. 
Jowar .. a ٠ 100 100 8:00 17108. ,, ۵١۰۰۱٥۸۸8. .. } 
Bajra 0 ee oe ae ea eeee ৪৪৪৮৬ 
Indian corn (maize) a 2,000 2,200 7:50 1008. ., 8-50 mds. ۱ 
Marua, mandua or 0881 7 کی‎ রর 7 Nee \ 
Other bhadol cereals ۰ : 100 ১৯৪০ 5০: 6۰۴090 mds, 
Bhadoi fruits 7 oa 200 300 80 percent. .. 90percent. ., 
Bhadol vegetables including root 
crops .. re cs 3,500 6,800 90 percent. .. 90 percent, 
یف‎ নি September, The weather condi- 
Other bhadoi food crops oY + 100 cece 80 per cent. normal. eb ig been 
avourable. 
Bhadoi fodder crops other than 
10815 bajra, marua and 6 800 400 90 per cont. }?. ۰۱۹۸100 per cent. 
Bhado! sunnhemp ee 2,600 2,800 1۰50 08168 ., 1°50 bales, 
Bhadoi non-food crops other than 
foddor and fibres .. ie ia ae নন এ 
Bhadoi fibres other than jute 
and sunnhemp -7 a6 200 200 75percent. .. 75 percent. 
Mulberry, . oe টি 600 600 100-00 mds. .. 120۰00 mds. 
Indigo رذ رو‎ e@ ৬ رر رب لف ری‎ 
Total ve 9,400 12,000 rer van’ 
Jowar “* +e 100 100 6:00 mds. 9:00 mds. 
Bajra ee ৬ ee مم‎ ৬৬৯৩ ৪১৪৪৪ 
Indian corn (maize) ow 5,000 6,000 4:50 mds. 5°00 mds. 
Marua, mandua or ragi os oe oe ৪৬৬৪৪ ০৪৪৪ 
Other bhado! cereals “% 1,000 800 6-00 mds. 5:00 mds. 
Bhadol fruite as wk 8,000 8,000 70 per cent. 70 per cent. 
Bhadol vegetables including root 8,200 6,600 70 per cent. 80 per cent. 
crops. 
7 September-October The weather condl- 
Other bhadoi food crops er 7 rer টিপলে tions have beer 
favourable. 
Bhadoi fodder crops other than 100 100 70 per cent. 70 per cent. 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 
Bhadoi sunnhemp er 1,400 1,400 2-00 bales 2:00 bales 
Bhadoi non-food crops other than ‘x ৯৪ sane seve 
fodder and 8. 
Bhadoi fibres other,than jute and 500 2 80 .ء0‎ ৪47 
sunnhemp. 
Mulberry ee oe 100 ۰ 70۰00 mds. 2.2. 
Indigo oe -7 ee cous cece 
Total x 14,400 16,500 ‘me ones 
Jowar = ۲ 100 100 6°50 mds. 4°00 mds. ) 
Bajra راف‎ 6 9 ve ৪৪৬৪৬ ১ 
Indian corn (maize) 7 5,000 4,200 6:60 mds, 6:00 mds. 
Marua, mandua or ragi a 300 “a 8:00 mds. ৪৪৪ 
Other bhadol cereals we 400 1,700 6:50 mds. 4°50 mds, 
Bhado! fruits 1,400 1,800 65 percent. .. 70 per cent. 
Bhadol vegetables including root 21,100 18,200 65 per cent. 80 per cent. 
سس‎ a wt 
টি টি: 85 per cent. September-October, The] weather oondi- 
Qther bhado! food crops 300 680 70 per cent pe normal. > "tons have 1১৩৪৪ 
Bhadoi fodder crops other than 7 5,200 বিডি 80 per cent. favourable. 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 
Bhadol sunnhemp 5,700 5,200 1۰00 bales 1:75 fbalea 
Bhadoi non-food orops other than 600 800 60 per cent. 20 percent. 
fodder and fibres. 
EBhadoi fibres other than jute and 200 - 400 60 per cent. 70 per cent. 
sunnhamp. 
Mulberry ও ve ٠ ae ৮৮৪৩৬ “teen 
Indigo ae oe es ee رو ری‎ "8২৬৬ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST,23, 1956 


District. 


Rooghly 


Howrah 


7 নাল 


te) 


Area in acres Hetimated outturn per acre. parveating of the Remark 
Name of the crop. سم‎ 71111101118 
Last This Laat year. This year, menced this year 
year. year, 7 and whether that 
, date was early, 
~ normal or late. 
Jowar 7 7 100 100 6-00 mds 6-00 mds. } 
Bajra oe * +ہ+م([۔‎ ee eage হ ৪৪৪ 
Indian corn (maize) i 200 200 7:00 mds 7:00 mds. 
Marua, mandua or ragi “ @@ ٠ চা لہ مف رطف‎ 
Other bhadoi cereals 7٦ 10 100 9۰00 mds 0۰00 mds. 
Bhadoi fruits ws a 1,700 1,500 70 per cent 70 per cent. 
Bhadoi vegetables including root 5,100 6,200 100 per cent 100 per cent. 
crops. 
August to Septem- The weather condi. 
Other bhadoi food crops a <. * rer ber, normal, পু have been 
alr, 
Bhadol fodder crops other than 100 100 100 per cent. 100 per cent. 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 
“Bhadol sunnhemp a 800 900 2:00 bales 2-20 bales 
31001 non-food crops other تسا‎ a ۰ 6 +e 
fodder and fibres. : 
Bhadol fibres other than jute and 100 800 50 per cent. 60 per cent. 
sunnhemp. 
Mulberry oe ae ee رف‎ ae soe 
Indigo ee جوم‎ oe BY we رر یٹ‎ . ee 
Total ۰ 8,200 8,400 7 
Jowar ee ee e ক ও ৪5৪৬ ee 
Bajra ea oy گول‎ ৬ 4ئ‎ ea ao veo ae 
Indian corn (maize) -۰ و و 4+ و‎ 
Marua, mandua or 1881 eats oe se toes rt 7 
Other bhadoi cereals ee ee ৬৬৬৪ ৬৬? 
Bhadoi 2014 7 oe 400 400 60 per cent. 60 per cent. 
Bhadol vegetables Including root 2,400 2,200 90 per cent. 80 per cent, 
کے رین‎ 
Other bhadoi food crops 02 200 200 90 per cent. 70 er cent. August to Septem- The weather condi- 
ber, normal. ےر‎ ER. tlons have been on 
Bhadoi fodder crops other (082 ০, و‎ seen re the whole fair. 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 
Bhadoi sunnhemp a os 800 200 2۰40 bales 2-40 bales 
Bhadoi non-food crops other than se ee eee evae 
fodder and fibres. 
Bhadoi fibres other than jute and sé en “xe? ৪৬৬৪ 
sunnhemp. 
Mulberry ee ; یب‎ ee ee 2৪৬৭ eee 
ladige راب ای ےی رف‎ es eeeoe emee 
Total ৮8৪ 3,300 8,000 oe eaea 
Jowar oe ea ee oe oad ৪৪6৪ 
Bajra eese ee e¢ ae ہو وھ‎ ese 
Indian corn (maize) wat 8,500 7,500 7:00 mds @°00 mds 
Marua, mandua or ragi oe oe on pews 6م وم‎ 
Other bhadot cereals ৪৬ ۰ ae eee oeen 
Bhadoi fruits - x $00 800 80 per cent. 70 per cent. 
Bhadoi vegetables including root 8,700 a 70 per cent. 60 per eent. 
crops. # 
op ۳ i টি sa 
Other bhadoi food crops 7 a 7 নহি পিং as Septem nerma] | The wether سس‎ 
nee tions have ne 
Bhadol fodder crops other than ر2‎ | : wy, Ome ep ene favourable. 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize.- জী ee 
Bhadoi sunnhemp ৪ aa 7 ees peas 
Bhadoi non-food other thas os oe ৪৪৬৩ ৪৪৪৭ 
fodder and ie 
Bhadoi fibrea other than jute and ৪৬ ee ৪৯৬৪ enon 
sunuhemp. 
Mulberry @a نم ری‎ oa eee rane 
 “اھو‎ | oe কি ee ৪৬৪৫ رم‎ 
بی نماد‎ 192000 004 নর ave” 


٢ 


Date by which the 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZET WE, AUGUST 23, 1956 5253 


¥ i , lead 


7 Date by whish the 
Area in acres. Estimated outturn per acre. harvesting of the Romarks, 
Distriets. Name of the.orops. বিসিসি পাশপাশি পিপিপি crop generally com- 
% Laat This Last yoar, " This year. menced this year 
year, year. 3ھ‎ and whether that 
date was early, 
normal or late. 
Darjeeling ae Jowar a¢ es ee ee se 7 ۰ eee 
Bajra ১, itt ae ae ৪৬ 4 eee deat 
Indian corn (maize) .. ) 68,800 89,000 8-00 mds. ,, 8-60 mds. 
Marua, mandua or ragi we 28,500 28,800 6:00 mds, .. 6°30 mds. 
Other bhadoi cercals * وج‎ - 100 ee 6°00 mds... ই 
Bhadot ٤ و‎ শত 800 800 05 percent. .. 100 percent. .. ‘ 
Bhadoi vegetablos inoluding root 2,300 2,400 85 percent. .. 90'per cent. September-October, The weather oondi- 
crops. . normal, পা 7 been 
Other bhadol food crops 7 ee oe er ae 55 


Bhadol fodder crops other. than on 
Jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 


Bhadol sunnhemp .. 4 


Bhadoi non-food crops other than 2,400 2,600 60 percent. .. 60 per cent. 
fodder and fibres. 


Mulberry es oe ৯৬ ৬৪ eee وھ“‎ : 
Indigo .. oe ee ee oe 5৩৪৬ oe J 
Total 7 97,400 98,109 নি, er 
Malda . Jowar .. - 7 sf ‘a بی کے‎ ) 
13818 ১, +s 7 300 200 6:00 mds. .. 6:00 mds... 
Indian corn (maize) .. se 24,400 81,600 8:00 mds. .. 800 mds... 
Marua, mandua or ragi টে ۰ সা کر ئ0"‎ 
Other bhadoi cercals én 2,100 4,400 5°00 mds. .. 6°00 mds... 
Bhadol fruits “4 oe 1,000 1,100 60 percent. .. 90 percent. .. 
07 vegetables including root 6,800 7,800 69 percent. .. 80 fpercent. .. 
Other bhadol food crops রী 2,000 2,200 70 percent. .. 80 7090 ০606, .. 80808 00028917209 জা, “cone 
Bhadol fodder crops other than ৮৪ - جس دی‎ vourabl 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. ৯ 
Bhadol 80101000100 ১ - 109 ee 1:00 bales... nes 
Bhadoi non-food crops other than... ee sinks ere 
fodder and fibres. 
Bhadoi fibres other than jute and 800 700 60 percent. ., SO percent. .. 
sunnhemp. | 
Mulberry es <* 7,400 7,400 150:00 mds. .. 80000 mds. ,. ; 
1548০ fp ee oe a 4 
een ea le carapace 
Total 7 44,900 55,400 os تی‎ 
6০১10105001] ০০ Jowar *, ۰ a 7 +“ ee ee ۹ 
ع(ەط‎ ১, ৪৪ oe pe ve ১০৪০ ayes | 
Indian corn (maize) .. কর 1,600 1,600 10:00 mds. .. 10°00 1008. ., 
Marua, mandua or ragi os 100 টা 8:090 mds... وی‎ | 
Other bhadol cereals ve .و‎ oe ene cave 
Bhadol fruits. 7 600 700 809: 088, .. 80 percent. .. 


Bhadoi vegetables including root 1,50 1,400 65 percent. .. 86 percent. .. 
orops. 


ve “ee by 1 চি ag চি | 2 হি গত ও ق2‎ 
75459 ‘ ۱ ae August to Septem- The weather و‎ 
Bhadoi fodder crops other than o ss. শী. دی عم‎ ber, ho ৪ tions have 10800 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. a % favourable. 
Bhadol aunnnhemp .. ےہ‎ :0 ae 9۰00 موا ہے ملعط‎ 
Bhadol non-food creps other than ‘ea we att وو‎ 
fodder and fibres. & 
Bhadol fibres other than jute and 800 2109 79ض‎ per cont. .. TOpercent. ., 
surrey, . : کیو‎ 
Mulberry i ; ok oe. ee oe রি Geese eeee : 
Indigo oe a oe 1 ge ‘ (ve a 4৩৬৬ : eeoe 


- Total. 4,260 5,800 ৮ 


024 
a اس[‎ 
পপি আস abi 
Ttatriet. Name of the crop. 
4 
Cooch Behar Jowar 5, 7 27 
0১০০ ہے‎ ৮ 7 
۲۰:25۸ @orn (maize) .. 4% 
Marua, manduwa or ragi os 
Other bhadoi cereals ae 


٦ 


Woat Bengal ; 


১১১১১১১১১১১ 


Lhatoigruits es ٠ 


Bhadui vegetables including root 
02017, 


Pther bhadolfood crops ০ 


Bhadoi fodder crops other than 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 


Bide! sunnhemp ٠ oe 


Bhkdei non-food গালে other than 
fodder and fibres 


Bhadoi fibres other than jute and 
sunnhenrp. 


Mulberry و‎ ৬৪ oe 
Indigo .. es ee 
یم‎ 

Total 7 
৬ ae 75 
৭ নার 7 : 
*{ndian oorn (maime) .. 
تس‎ inapdua or 18881 ae 
Other bhadot cereals me 
Bhadol fruits ee ee 


Bhado!l vegetables including root 
0008. 


Other امفمانا‎ food crops تت‎ me 


Bhadoi fodder crops other than 
jowar, bajra, marua and maize. 


Bhadol aunnhemp oe ee 


Bhadol non-food crops ogher ও 
fodder and fibres. 


Bhadol tibres other than jute and 
sunnhemp. 


Mulberry চা ee 
Indigo .. 2 ۰ 
Total “> 


Printed and published by the 
2৮ West Bengal Govern 


4 


Area tn acres. 
পপি سپ کت‎ পাম্পি inetd 


[০ 


WAY 
2 


+ 


লস্কর 


Estimated outturn p 


وید گا vies‏ 


২৫৬: 


ا 


৫০০৬ পপ tae 
০০০০৭ = 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 23, 1966 


۲ 
পিন 


4 


acre, Date by which (৮9 
‘ parvesting ia a 


year. This year. Last year. 7 This year. yoar... creep generall‏ امس 
nom this‏ 
and দি, t শু‏ 
was early,‏ پا 
normal or late.‏ 
mds...‏ 8:00 ہے mds.‏ 7°60 200 200 
mds. .. 8°00 mds...‏ 8°00 200 200 
mds. .. 88) mds...‏ 8۰00 1,890 1,600 
2o0 66 percent. .. 80 percent. ..‏ 100 
percent. .. 90 percent. ..‏ 60 1,000 800 
৪ ۳ ০ চি August-September,‏ 
een normal.‏ روف ee ee‏ 
ee ee e@een eee‏ 
مه percent. .. 80 percent.‏ 80 1,800 200 
ee es aes eee‏ 
ہوم" وھ e@ ee eee‏ 
ہے هھ ےک 4,700 9,109 
mds. .. 7°06 mds...‏ 7°62 4,100 8,900 
mds. -. 6°50 mds.‏ 6°50 300 400 
mas. ee 8°03 mds.‏ 7°74 $125,600 117,270 
mds. .. 6°30 10618. ০৯‏ 5°97 23,800 28,900 
mds. .. 6°12 mda.‏ 6°11 9,500 6,300 
percent. .. 75 per cent.‏ 70 16,600 16,800 
percent. .. 80 per cent.‏ 76 89,200 84,700 
percent. .. 80 percent. ..‏ 75 9,200 4,700 
percent. .. 80 per cent.‏ 80 9,800 1,500 
bales ~., 1°78 bales.‏ 1°42 18,200 14,100 
percent. .. 60 per cent.‏ 60 5,100 6,100 
percent. .. 80 per cent.‏ 75 22,300 17,700 
mds. .. 198:98 mdb.‏ 146۰18 8,300 8,900 
esee ee@ea‏ 386,500 306,200 
we 2‏ 
گر 4 
نمی a‏ 


পু gr nt, 00.0 Printing, West Bengal, 


উঠ” on the 28rd August 1956. 


Remarks. 


tions have 
favourable. 


i‏ ود تب 


০০ 
০০ 


The weather condi. 
been 


(0 1 


No. 42101) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


১ AR A 1 RAE SS REE ESS PEP PAE RAMA EIRy h وس‎ 
০০ Re tes সি পিপাসা RE তা পাশপাশি RR AE ER CR AE SP RE সপ কি EL ET PR he 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 1956 


PART JI—Orders and Notifications by the Governor ot West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 5 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


DECLARATIONS 


Calcutta.—No. 14640L.A.—23rd August 5996, 
—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
need mg for a public purpose, not being ے‎ purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the construction of 
buildings for Tolygunge thanu in the villages of 
Siimpur and Arakpur, jurisdiction jist Nos. 37 
and 39, respectively, thana Tollygunge, pargana 
Khashpur, district 24-Parganas, since included in 
Ward No. 77 of the Calcutta Municipality, it is 
hereby declared that pieces of land cowprising 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 32, $3, 34 and 35 ot 


wauza Silimpur and cadastril survey plot 
Nos. 149, 160, 161, 162, 163 and = 164 
and parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 155, 157, 4158 of 10020: Arakpur 


2021 


more or less, 2560 aches, wre 
weeded tor the aforesaid, public pdFpose at the 
টি expense within thé aforesaid v ot 
Silimpur and Arakpur in Ward Ng. 7 of the 
Calcutta Municipality ; 11 নদ 


aud measuring, 


This declaration is made, underrcth® provisions 
of section 6 of Act I of 1894, to all whom .t may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected iff the 
office of the Second Land Acquisition Collectag,. 
Calcutta, at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. - 

Caicutta,—No. 14642L.A.—23rd Anguat 1956. 
—Whereag the Governor is satisfied thay land is, 
needed for a public wurpose, not bei a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for the conatruction of 
buildings for Tollygunge thuna in the villagea of 
Silimpur and Arakpur, jurisdiction list Nos. 37 
and 39, respectively, thana Tollygunge» pairgana 
Khashpur, district 24-Parganas, since welded in 
Ward No. 77 of the Calcutta Muniakpailtyv, rt is 


2022 THE CALCUTTAGAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 23, 1956 IParr } 


ey ۱ রি = ও eas 
aid ۱ ; রি * + fy ss : কি 
hereby declared that a piece df land comprising ees ১০1 the. on y be নিলি is: the 
cadastral plot Nos, 27, 28 and -29 of mayza 19017 যায Spebigh “Land Acquisition Officer 
Siftmpur and ‘portions. of cadanttal-plot Nos. 157 Wirbhukt. 1 | Ne 
and 158 of mauza Arakpur وت‎ দর کل‎ 
or less, 3.418 acres, are needed’-for the aforesai ۹ 
public purpose at the public #¥nense within the Description of the land 
“aforesaid villages of Silimpur and Arakpur; Mauza Daskolgram, jurisdiction list No. 10, 
. his declaration is 1094.070 7 the provisions police-station Nanoor, district Birbhum. 
দিন রি ید ور سو جوا شپت در کن‎ Cadastral survey plots in part—62, C3, 92, 93, 
344, 345, 846, 447, 354, 356, 356, 365, 367, 368, 
A plan of the land may be inspected in the 369, 370, 373, 400, 404, 407, 408, 599, GOO and 
office of the Segond Land Acquisition Collector, 400/986. 
নি at Now 2, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 
Mauza Raipur, jurisdiction list No. ہ9‎ police. 


station Nanoor, district Birbhum. ~ 


= 7 NOTICE 

শিস Na. 14644L.A.(P.W.).—23rd August Cadastral survey plets in part—1782,. 1783, 
1956.—Whenrgps 9.99 acres, more or less, of land 1784, 1785, 1786, 1787, 1802, 1803, 1804, 1809, 
‘situated in gr near the villages of Daskalgram 1810, 1816, 1836, 1638, 1839, 1840, 1841, 1850, 

nd 2 others fescribed below have ‘been rcquisition- 1851, 1860, 1861, 1862, 1896, 1899, 1900, 1946, 
Ne under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the West 1948, 1949, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1962, 
Betlg al Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1963, 1964, {972, 1974, 2805, 2615, 2514, 
1948, © the person authorised uoder ihe said 202), ZORR, 2529, 2524, 9532, 2583, 2534, 2535, 
section 0) for the purpose of providing facilities 2539, 2540, 2541, 2542, 2543, 2557, 2558, 7597 
for,.drrigation aud drainage, namely, for excava- 2581, 2582, 2583, 2584, 2585, 2611 and | ১71 
tion, ay’ Distributary No. 14B Ex. ‘Kopai South 2625. 

ain” | "mal In connection with Mayurakshi : 
اید سی‎ Project} Mauza Ramkrishnapur, jurisdiction list No. 179, 

police-station, Labpur, district Birbhum. 
০৯, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance section 4 of the said Act the Gov- Cadastral ১১৯১ plots in part—316, 817, 818, 
819, 820, 823, 824, 825 and 833. 


সি کی‎ such ‘Tand being ৮৮ for a 
public ‘spur > ay aforesaid. 

~ 'his* টা given under the provisions of 
sub-sectiog dla) of section 4 of the West Bengul By order of the Governor, 
land (Reqvsition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 P. M. DATTA 
(West Bengal Act IT of 1948), to all whom it may এ রর 
congern., ٠ Dy. Secy. to the Govt. cf West Bengal. 


ees and published by the Superintendent, Government سا ساط‎ Bengal, 
t West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 23rd August 1 


Registered No. 0207 No. 42201) 


Galrvite ۲ Gazette 


ae 
pc 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority - 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 1056 


anal 


PART J—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West 
Benva., the High Court, Government Treasury, ete. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 
Constitution and Elections 
NOTIFICATION 

No. 2689A.R. — 24th August 1956. — The 
following notification by the Secretary to the 
(fovernor of West Bengal is hereby published for 
general information :— 

‘NOTIFICATION 

No, 28328.—23rd August 1946.—The President 
has tissented to the West Bengal Criminal Law 
Amendment Bill, 1956. 


1১, R. 91114, 
Secretary to the (tovernor”’. 


By order of the Governor, 
M. M. BASU, 
Necy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


SO ee রন 


1060 and pu ublished by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West Bengal, ঃ 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 24th August 1956. 


2023 


Na C207 No. 42401)‏ ۲۰۱راب جا 


Calrirtts ~~ سط‎ : 
0ھ‎ 7 
و‎ রী tee 9 Pe Av ؟‎ 


3 | : 5 ا 


“straordinary 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 1956 


' + اک‎ 
سی‎ ee ee دہ‎ . - 1 ee রা । রাজ 


ART 10065 and Notifications by the Governor of West 
15081, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Reforms 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 146841,.Ref.—24th August 1956.—In exer- 
0189 of the power conferred by section 59 of the 
West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West 
Bengal Act I of 1954), the Governor is pleased to 
make, after previous publication as required by 
sub-section (1) of the said section, the following 


2027 


2028 THE CALCUTTA GAZETI'E EXTRAUMANARY, [Pang 
AUGUST 24, 1956 ۳ 


বক :جو‎ ae ee یں‎ । ےہ ا "ا‎ =H পার 
Sg تارق ہ-ی ص۰ حرج‎ ae gee ale dies টং 
১ Habe 2 7٦ دو ےم‎ 


سب اس سم 

amendment in the West Bengal Estates Acquisi. 

tion Rules, 1954, as subsequently amended, 
uaniely سس‎ 


Amen: ment 


Tn sub-rule-(1) of rule 4B of the said rules for 
the words ‘‘before the expiry of four months from 
the date of vesting’ substitute the words “befor: 
the expiry of the 7th day of September 1956’. 


By order of the Governor, 
8. BANERJEE, 
Secy. to the Govt, of West Benzal. 


Printed and published by the8 intendent, Govt. Ptg., Weet Ben 8 
at West Benga) Govt. Preas, re, on the 24th August 1956 


Registered No. C207 


(0 8 


No. 42501) 


(90282 


eee 
مر‎ পন 


হন 6 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


FRIDAY, AUGUST 24, 1956 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LAND AND LAND REVENUE 
DEPARTMENT 


Land Acquisition 
NOTICES 


Murshidabad.—No. 14670L.A.(P.W.). — 24th 
August 1956.—Whereas .43 of an acre, more or 
lesa, of land situated in or near the village of 
Durgapur described below has been requisitioned 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the West 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
1948, by the person authorised under the said sec- 
tion 3(1) for the purpose of providing facilities for 
irrigation and drainage, namely, for Diversion road 
of Khargram-Parulia Roa on  Distributary 
No. 17/1 Mayurakshi-Dwarka Branch Canal in 


connection with Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Governor 
acquires such land being required for a public pur- 
pose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act Il of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Birbhum. 
Description of the land 


Village Durgapur, jurisdiction list No. 111, ০4 
station Khargram, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plots in 


part—2975, 1068, 
1069, 1070, 1071, 1072, 1075. 


2029 


2050 ہے‎ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 24, 1956 


ra 


Birbhum.——No. 14672L.A.(P.W.)—24th August 
1956.—Whereas 9.48 acres, more or less, of land 
situated in or near the villages of Kalinagar and 
three others described below have been requisitioned 
under sub-section (J) of section 3 of the Weat 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisiton) Act, 
1948, by the person authorised under the said sec- 
tion 3(1) for the purpose of providing facilities for 
irrigation and drainage, namely, for Distributary 
No. 11 ex. Kopai South Main Canal in connection 
with Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gover- 
nor acquires such land being required for a public 
purpose as aforesaid. 

This notice is given under the provisions of sub- 
section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal Land 
(Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 (West 
Bengal Act IT of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Mauza Kalinagar, jurisdiction list No. 34, police- 
atation Nanoor, district Birbhum. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—114, 115, 116, 

119, 121, 126, 127, 155, 185, 186, 187, 188, 189, 


[Paxr TI 


190, 191, 192, 194, 202, 208, 205, 206, 207, 208, 
446 and 450. 


Mauza Madhpur, jurisdiction list No. 81, police- 
station Nanoor, district Birbhum. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—-1160, ,ا1161‎ 1163, 
1170, 1174, 1176, 1f77, 1190, 1191, 1192, 1193, 
1216, 1217, 1218, 1226, 1227 and 1229, _ 


Mauza Motinagar, jurisdiction list No. 30, polhice- | 

station Nanoor, district Birbhum. 7 
Cadastral survey plots in part-—276, 277, 278, 

281, 282, 283, 287, 288, 289, 290, 593, 594, 595, 

596, 597, 602, 658, 659, 665, 666, 683, 684, 685.. 

G89, 690, 713, 717, 720, 726, 727, 728, 729 and 

730. 

Mauza Gomai, jurisdiction list No. 24, . police- 
station Nanoor, district Birbhum. 


Cadastral survey plots in part-——1304, 1305, 1308, 
1309, 1811, 1881, 13832, 1335, 1336, 1342, 1343, 
1345, 1847, 1349 and 1353. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 


at West Bengal Government Press, A 


ipore, on the 24th August 1956. 


Registered No. 7 No. 42611) 
d 


011 


chee 

کے 

. ক Ye! সিএ 
یں‎ Patri ei : 
: $l tle یہ‎ . 
লি 
711 
Be 8 نت‎ 5 4% 
BA ۷ | Gaze tie 
1 Ny 


5+ 7 KOO ا‎ : 
চি 
wate وہ‎ 


09 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1956 


উসকে 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


ORDER 


No. 3652Dis. 7 {71-46 /55.—13th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
(Jovernment of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 438438Dis. /D/ 
7L-46/55, dated the 12th September 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. North Brook Jute Mills Co., Ltd., Champdany, Hooghly, and a 
section of their weavers represented by National Union of Jute Workers 
(North Brook & Dalhousie Jute Mill Branch), Champdany, post office 
Baidyabati, Hooghly, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto 
was referred for adjudication to the First Industrial Tribunal, 


And whereas the said First Industrial Tribuna] has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (1 of 1947), the Governor is pleased 


hereby to publish the said award us shown im the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


ا٦‎ the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. North Brook Jute 
Mills Co., Ltd., Champdany, Hooghly, and a section of their weavers 
represented by National Union of Jute Workers (North Brook and 
Dalhousie Jute Mill Branch), Champdany, Bansbagan, post office 
Baidyabati, Hooghly. (Case No. ۷۱۱۱۰267 of 1955.) 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 


Sunt M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (Retired), Judge, First Industrial 
Tribunal, 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, by order 
No. 4348Dis./D/7L-46/55, dated 12th September 1955, referred under 


2031 


2032 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 25, 6 [Pare ] 
. - ate ad stn 20 


পন এরাই 


sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between Measrs. North Brook Jute Malls Co., Ltd. 
Champdany, Hooghly, and a section of their weavers represented by 
National Union of Jute Workers (North Brook and Dalhousie Jute Mill 
Branch), Champdany, Bansbagan, post office Baidyabati, Hooghly, regarding 
the matters specified in the following schedule to this Tribunal for 
adjudication : 
Schedule 
(1) The rates of wages on Broad Looms of 210" R.S. and 168" 11.8. for 
the weavers. 


(2) Are the weavers concerned entitled to wages for the period from 
27th August 1955 till 2nd September 1955, both days inclusive, 
on account of stoppage of work? 


(3) Are the weavers concerned entitled to wages for the paid holiday 
on 29th August 1955 on account of Muharram? 


Notices were issued on both parties, who filed written statements setting 
forth their respective cases. 


The history of the dispute as well as the cases of the parties will be set 
out when dealing with the issues. 


The appearances for the parties were as follows: 


For the Union: Shri P. K. Sanyal, Advocate, assisted by Shri Nikhil Roy, 
Advocate, and Shri Bomkesh Majumdar, M.Iu.A. 
For the Company: Shri R. L. Moitra, Deputy Labour Adviser, I.J.M.A., 


assisted by: Mr. L. A. Craven, Chief Labour Officer, Bird & Co, and 
Mr. J. M. Duncan, Mr. D. Ritchi, Officers of the Company. 


- The issues framed for the decision of this case are the same as those 
mentioned in the order of reference, and are as follows: 


issues 


(1) The rates of wages on Broad Looms of 210” R.S. and 168” B.S. 
for the weavers. 


(2) Are the weavers concerned entitled to wages for the period from 
27th August 1955 till 2nd September 1955, both days inclusive, 
on account of stoppage of work? 


(3) Are the weavers concerned entitled to wages for the paid holiday on 
29th August 1955 on account of Muharram ? 


AWARD 


DECISIONS 


Issue No. 1.—The rates of wages on Broad Looms of 210” R.S. and 168’ 
5.5. for the weavors. 


The ordinary hessian weaving loom in a jute mill has a reed space 
ranging from 40 inches to 90 inches. There are a very few looms in one or 
two mills with reed space of 94 inches and 102 inches. In the North Brook 
Jute Mills, which will be mentioned hereafter as the Company, the hessian 


Patt 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 25, 1956 2033 
| | ০১০১১০০০০০০ See ree ne ee 70 


looms have reed space from 46 inches to 90 inches. The Company installed 
some additional looms of broader reed space. They are ot two classes, 
having reed space of 210 inches and 168 inches respectively. Fifteen looms 
of 210 inches reed space were installed between the dates of 18th March 
1955 and 2nd November 1955 and 15 looms of 168 inches reed space were 
installed between the dates of 165th July 1955 and 13th October 1909. 
These dates are detailed in Annexure A to the Company’s written statement. 
The Union states that the task of operating these broad looms entails great 
strain and hardship on the weaver concerned, and that the work 1s also 
attended with great personal hazard and risk. The Company, however, 
states that due to automatic devices fitted for the operation of these looms, 
the work involved there is even less strenuous than the ordinary lino looms. 
It is also recounted that during the two months of treble shift working 
of the broud looms prior to the filing of the Company’s written statement, 
which is virtually equal to six months of single shift working there was 
only one minor accident in the broad loom shed, due to a worker stepping 
on a nail on the floor, which was unconnected with the operation in the 
loom and that this fact would show that the Union’s plea of special 
hazards attended with a broad loom was unworthy of support. I may 
mention here that I inspected the new broad looms and watched while 
they were being worked. The automatic device was a great help to the 
operator. The loom automatically stopped when a piece of yarn snapped. 
It does not appear to me that the work in these broad looms was speciall 

strenuous to a worker, or that there was any special hazard attended wit 

the operation in these looms. Owing to the very nature of the work the 
production was bound to be slower than that in a narrower loom. The 
weavers were initially put on time-rates, being at Rs. 20-4 per week over 
and above the fixed dearness allowance of Rs. 8-10 per week. On 27th 
June 1955 these weavers were put on piece-rates, It may be mentioned 
that all other weavers in the Jute Textile Industry are on piece-rates. 
The wages of the workmen in the Jute Textile Industry were revised by 
the award of the Third Major Jute Textile Tribunal and the revised piece- 
rates of the weavers appear in Appendix IX of the award. These piece- 
rates were upheld by the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribunal of India. 
While the basic wages in time-rates and piece-rates of the workers 
including the weavers in the Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal were 
revised to their advantage, their dearness allowance was reduced from 
Rs, 37-6 in the month or Rs. 8-10 in the week to Rs. 32-8 in the month 
or Rs. 7-8 in the week. This award was in operation from 6th November 


1956. 


The weavers of the broad looms of the North Brook Jute Mills resented 
the change-over from time to piece-rates on 27th June 1955. After this 
date, the wages earned by the weavers fell. The Union accounts for this 
fall in wages to the introduction of the piece-rates in place of time-rates 
and the Company complains that this fall in earnings of the weavers was 
caused by the fall in production consequent on deliberate ‘‘go-slow tactics’’ 
employed by these weavers. A conciliation proceeding followed and there 
was a settlement on 27th June 1955, which appears in Annexure A to the 
Union’s written statement and Annexure D to the Company’s written 
statement. The rates fixed by this settlement are of a composite character, 
being in a time-rate of Rs. 16-6 per week of 48 hours, supplemented by 
additional earnings in the form of an incentive bonus’ contingent on 
reaching certain targets of production rates. The agreement was to remain 
in force for a period of three months. This would indicate that these rates 
were fixed for a period of transition till the weavers could finally be put 
on piece-rates. Corresponding wage rate scales were also adopted for the 
168-inch looms, which appear in Appendix D(1) to the Company’s written 


2034 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 25, 1956 [Para] 


statement. Till 15th August 1955 the broad looms were being operated 
in double shifts, named A and B shifts. A third shift, the C shift, was 
started from 16th August 1955. The Union made some demands for the 
broad looms weavers including those to be employed in the C shift, which 
was to be all-might shift, and an agreement was arrived at on 12th August 
1955 between the parties. This agreement appears as Annexure B to the 
Union’s written statement and Annexure EK to the Company’s written 
statement. There were special concessions agreed to be given to the C 
shift men and also other broad loom weavers. Some of the terms will 
appear below: | 


(a) The C shift will work from 10 p.m. ito 2 a.m. and 2-30 a.m. to 
6 a.m. 


(b) Housing accommodation for workers engaged on broad looms shall 
be provided by the Company as soon as possible. 


(c) The workmen on C shift broad looms will be paid 48 hours’ wages 
for 45 hours’ work per week. 


(d) Weavers transferred from narrow to broad looms will be given 
three weeks’ time in which to learn, and if they are found 
incapable of working on broad looms, they will be sent back to 
their original narrow looms, 


(9) Workers of the C shift will be given two cups of tea and one piece 
of snack per head for each half of the night shift. ٰ 


Now comes the stage in the dispute that culminated in the present 
reference. The Union complains that it appeared on 27th August 1955 
that in paying wages to the weavers of the C shift, the Company did not 
implement the terms-of the aforesaid agreements and in paying wages to 
three of the weavers each of A and B shifts, the terms of settlement on 
26th July 1955 were violated. The weavers of the broad looms thereupon 
went on strike on 27th August 1955. There was a conciliation proceeding 
and o settlement was. arrived at between the parties on 2nd September 
1955. This settlement appears in Annexure C to the Union’s written 
statement and Annexure F to the Company’s written statement. In 
‘accordance with the terms of this settlement, dated 2nd September 1958, 
work was to be resumed on 3rd September 1955, and the three issues of 
the present proceeding were to be referred to the Tribunal for adjudication. 
The reference was, therefore, made by the Government in view of the 
terms of the settlement. 


We are concerned in this issue with the rates of wages to be paid to 
the weavers for working on the broad looms of 210 inches and 168 inches 
reed space. P.W. 1 Juman Miah, a broad loom weaver, deposed for the 
Union, and document, Ext. 1, was marked for the Union. The Company 
did not examine any witness. Documents, Exts. A to D, were marked 
forthe Company. P.W.1 Juman Miah states that he works in a 210 inches 
loom. There was again a dispute between the Company and the broad loom 
weavers regarding the wages to be paid to them in December 1955, The 
witness states that there was an agreement between the Union and the 
Company as to the rates to be payable for work on these broad looms and 
they are as shown in Ext. 1. Document, Ext. 1, shows that it was agreed 
that the settlement arrived at in the conciliation meeting, dated 26th July 
1955, for a period of three months, shall be extended up to the week ending 
8rd December 1955, and that thereafter from week ending 10th December 
1955, without prejudice to the case regarding the wage rates for the weavers 
on broad looms which is under adjudication, weavers would be put on 
plece rates as per the schedule attached to the terms of the settlement. 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 26, 3926 2035‏ [1 آ7 


f 


rat ———— a a EI RET 


This shows that the broad loom weavers were paid up to 38rd December 
1955 basic time-rate at Rs, 16-6 per week স)1 48 hours plus the dearness 
allowance of Rs. 8-10 per week of 48 hours, plus the incentive bonus 
contingent on reaching certain production targets as mentioned in the 
Union’s written statement. Thereafter from week ending 10th December 
1955, the weavers of the broad looms were paid the basic rates as 
mentioned in Ext. 1, without prejudice to their claim in the present pro- 
ceedings. In cross-examination, P.W. 1 Juman Miah states that the 
broad টি weavers were now getting the proper wage and they pray for 
a continuation of the present wage rate. The witness, therefore, states 
that the piece-rates of wages, as mentioned in Ext. 1, are satisfactory to 
them and may be continued. 


Exhibit D filed by the Company shows the weaving rates for the hessian 
fabric woven on 210 inches reed space and 168 inches reed space looms. 
Exhibit D shows the same rates as appearing in Ext. 1. Exhibit D, 
however, shows rates for a greater number of variety of fabrics than 
appearing in Ext. 1. These hessian fabrics are called carpet backing 
fabrics, because these hessian clothes are used ag a background of carpets. 
Exhibit D shows the various kinds of hessian fabrics that are made on these 
broad looms and the rates of wages that follow from the weaving piece- 
rates formulated in the First Award and the Third Award of the Major 
Jute Textile Industry Tribunal. This wage chart also shows that the 
weaving rates as given by the North Brook Jute Mills in Ext. 1 are much 
higher than the weaving rates formulated by the First and the Third Awards. 
The North Brook rates are with dearness allowance of Rs. 8-10 per week, 
The Kinnison Jute Mills, under the same Managing Agents as the present 
Company is, also works the same broad looms. ‘They also pay similar wage 
rates and their wage rates have been calculated with the weekly dearness 
allowance of Rs. 7-8, the balance of Re. 1-2 per week having been included 
in the weaving rate. For that reason, corresponding to the present North 
Brook rate of 170 annas per 100 yards of 196 inches hessian plain of 16 
porter 15 shots with a weight per yard of 68.60 ozs. woven on a loom of 
210 reed space, the Kinnison weaving rate is 189 annas per 100 yarda. 


It is clear that the weaving rates as given by the Mill accounts for 
higher emoluments to the broad loom weavers than what is justified by 
the wage rates formulated in the Major Tribunal Awards principally for 
narrower looms. There can be no doubt that this advance in wage rate 
fully compensates for any additional strain that may be involved in 
working on the broad looms. Exhibit 1 also shows that in calculating the 
weekly wages, due allowance will be made for time lost through changing 
beams. They are as follows: 


On 210° R.S. Looms: Five hours’ allowance on all fabrics except 
12x12 plain where four hours will be allowed. 


On 168° K.S. Looms: Four hours’ allowance on all fabrics except 
12x12 plain where three hours will be allowed. 


Weavers will also receive wages in proportion when loom is standing for 
major repairs. Exhibits A and 401) are the actual production and the 
wages of the carpet backing weavers in ten weeks ending 2nd June 1955 
for all weavers working in the three shifts. They show quite satisfactory 
wages. Exhibit B(1) is a statement filed by the Company showing the 
average earnings excluding dearness allowance for 48 “hours from week 
ending 3rd March 1956 to week ending 5th May 1956 on all the broad 
looms as well as earnings of weavers in 48 narrow lino looms during the 
same period, The average per worker in the 30 broad looms during this 
period is Rs. 20.98, whereas the average per worker in the 48 lino looms 
during the period is Rs. 16.74. Exhibit B is a statement showing these 


2036 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 25, 1956 [Parr.] 


oo 
SRA Nao جےچد‎ 


کی ہیں EIT ROTO OD CPL:‏ شض شی یب سج شغ۔ شش مر یس چو شض رک شش خ ہے পিউ‏ 


earnings in the broad loom and the lino loom during the period mentioned 
ahove. This statement shows the average total earnings of the broad loom 
weaver per week to be Rs. 29.605 and the average total earnings for the 
lino loom weaver to be only Rs. 24.24 per week. This statement clearly 
shows that the broad loom weavers are getting o much higher wage than 
the lino loom weavers on the rates as shown in Ext. D or Ext. 1. In these 
circumstances, it is clear that the weavers of the broad looms are getting 
more than Rs, 20-4 per week was fixed for them by way of basic wages 
when these looms were first installed, and which the Union wanted to be 
assured to the weavers even when piece-rates were introduced. P.W. 1 
Juman Miah states that the weavers wanted a basic wage of Rs. 20-4 per 
week exclusive of the dearness allowance of Rs. 37-6 per month. In the 
result, 1 1s awarded that the weavers on the broad looms of 210 inches reed 
space and 168 inches reed space shall get the same wages as were given to 
them under Ext. 1, or in other words, the same wage as is mentioned as 
the North Brook wage in Ext. D with a dearness allowance of Rs. 8-10 per 
week. These rates are the same as the Kinnison rates, mentioned in 
Ext. D, with dearness allowance of Rs. 7-8 per week. In view of the 
fact that the whole industry is now earning Rs. 7-8 per week as the 
dearness allowance, the broad loom weavers alsu shall get the same amount 
of dearness allowance, that is, at Rs. 7-8 per week, and they shall get 
their wage rates revised to include the balance of the dearness allowance 
and therefore shall get the same rates as mentioned for the Kinnison Mills 
in Ext. D. These wage rates are mentioned in Appendix A to this award. 
The concessions for time lost, as mentioned in Ext. 1, shall also continue 
and are mentioned in Appendix A. This issue is accordingly answered. 


19586 No. 2.—Are the weavers concerned entitled to wages for the period 
from 27th August 1955 till 2nd September 1955, both days inclusive, 
on account of stoppage of work? 


The broad loom weavers were on strike for the period from 27th August 
1955 till 2nd September 1955. The proceedings of the Third Major Jute 
Textile Industry Tribunal were pending from 7th April 1954 to 5th 
November 1955. The North Brook Jute Mills and their workers were 
parties to that proceeding. The strike resorted to by the broad loom 
weavers during the period from 27th August 1955 to 2nd September 1955 
was, therefore, illegal, in view of section 28, clause (b), of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. It is an established principle that an illegal strike absolves 
the liability of the employer to pay wages during the period of absence of 
the striking workmen [vide Mahaluxmi Cotton Mills case, 1952 L.A.C. 
310, Punjab National Bank’s case, 19538 L.A.C. (1)]. It is, therefore, 
awarded that the broad loom weavers who were on strike during the period 
from 27th August 1955 to 2nd September 1955 shall not get any wages 
for this period from the employer. This issue is accordingly answered. 


Issue NO. 3.—Are the weavers concerned entitled to wages for the paid 
holiday on 29th August 1955 on account of Muharram ? 


During the period of strike from 27th August 1955 to 2nd September 
1955 there was a paid holiday on 29th August 1955 on account of Muharram. 
The Union prayed for payment of wage to the broad loom weavers for this 
date only on the ground that it was a paid holiday. P.W. 1 Juman Miah 
states in his evidence that the holiday for Muharrum on 29th August 1954 
was notified in the beginning of the year. The broad loom weavers should 
get the pay for the holiday (Muharrum) on 29th August 1955. This issue 


is accordingly answered. | 
M. C. BANERJT, 


Judge, First Industrial_Tribunal. 
The 26th July 1956. 


Pant 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 25, 1956 2037 
APPENDIX A 
Carpet Backing Weaving Rates 
Fabric. Width, Portor, Shot, aie = "for : 7 00° 
yards + 
dearness 
allowance 
Re. 7-8 per 
week. 
210 RS. Ag. 
196” Hess, Plain 7 107 16 15 600 189 
196” Sateen 7 196” 15 13 7691 161 | 
196” Sateon 7 196” 16 16 68 -60 189 
196” Hoss. Plain = 196” 12 12 68:60 126 
1007 Hess. Plain و‎ 196” 15 13 55 +53 151 
196” Sateon ٦ 196” 16 135 7775 161 
1007 Sateen hes 196” 15 145 77.75 151 
196” Hess. Plain 196” 12 12 65 +33 126 
154” Hess. Plain = 154” 16 15 53 -90 180 
153” Sateen 7 153” 16 15 53 زا‎ 180 
153” 72989. Plain 7 7 16 16 51 +00 180 
154” Hees, Plain 91۰ ٤ 13 43 -63 145 
164” Hoss. Plain - 164” 16 15 53 +47 180 
154” Hess. Plain 7 154” 16 15 51 +33 180 
155” Sateen a 155” 15 5 0 ۵8 146 
156° Hess. Plain রঃ 156” 15 13 44 0 145 
167” 11088. Plain 7 7 15 19 44 48 145 
168” 78. ۰ 
154” Hess. Palin 7 154” 16 16 ۵ 0 8 
154” Sateon a 154” 15 13 59 -675 117 
154” Sateen os 154” 16 15 53 -90 138. 
154” Hess. Pain os 154” 12 12 53 -90 96 
156” Sateon -7 156” 16 15 54 -60 138 
153” Hess. Plain 7 153” 16 15 51-00 138 
154” Hoss, Plain oe 154” 15 13 43 -63 117 
154” Hees. Plain a 154” 16 15 7 8 
164° Hess. Plain a 154” 16 15 5) +33 138 
156” Sateon - 806? 15 13 -5 $1 8 117 
156” Hoss. Plain 7 156” 15 13 44 0 117 
157” Hess. Plain 167? 16 13 44 8 117 


153” Sateen as 153° 16 16 63 +55 138 


2038 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG, 25, 1956 [Parr ] 
সাজ 
In calculating weekly wages due allowance will be made for time lost 


۴ 


through changing beams as under— 


210” H.S.—Five hours’ allowance on all fabrics except 12x12 plain 
where four hours will be allowed. 


168” F.S.—Four hours’ allowance on all fabrics except 12x12 plain 
where three hours will be allowed. 


Weavers will also receive wages in proportion when loom is standing for 
major repairs. 


M. 0. BANERJI, 
Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 


The 26th July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


হারার 
Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 25th August 1956, 


Registered No. C207 No. 427(1) 
Calrusta Voy) Gazette 
ئج ۹× رح‎ 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1956 


- 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 


Treasury, etc. 
GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No. %443/M.2A-12/56.—25th August 1956.— 
Whereas in the opinion of the Governor the affuirs 
of the Bhatpara Municipality, in the district of the 
24-Parganas, are not properly managed ; 


And whereas the Governor considers it desirable 
in the public interest to declare that the said 
Municipality shall have an Executive Officer for the 
period hereinafter mentioned ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of section 67A of the 
rit al Maaiacdl Act, 1932 (Benyal Act XV of 
1932), the Governor is pleased to declare that the 
said Municipality shall have an Executive Officer 
for a period of two years from the date of appoint- 
ment of such an officer. 


2039 


2. In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
sections (2) and (3) of section 67A of the said Act, 
the Governor is further pleased hereby to appoint 
Shri Sisir Kumar Har, retired Deputy Magistrate 
and Deputy Collector, to be the Executive (ffcer 
of the Bhatpara Municipality in the district of the 
<4-Parganas, referred to above and to direct that 
the 42559006255 Officer shall, during the period of 
his office, exercise and perform the powers and 
duties vested in the Commissioners of the said 
Municipality, whether at a meeting or otherwise, 
by clauses (i), (51) and (iii) of sub-section (2) of 
section 69, sections 93, 112, 129, 130, 131, 136, 
138, 140, 141, 142, 154, 155 except sub-section (3), 
156, 157, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 178 and 189 
of the said Act, and the power of said Commis- 
sioners under the rules adopted by them to graut 
leave to their officers and servants. 


No. 7444/M.2A-12/56.—25th August 1956.— 
Whereas in the opinion of the Governor the affairs 


2040 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 25, 1956 


[Pant J 
0... 


of the Bankura Municipality, in a district of 
Bankura, are not properly manag 


And whereas the Governor considers it desirable 
in the public interest to declare that the said 
Municipality shall have an Executive Othcer for 
the period hereinafter mentioned ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by sub-section (1) of section 6G7A of the 
Bengal Municipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV of 
1932), the Governor is pleased to declare that the 
said Municipality shall have an Executive Officer 
for a period of two years from the date of appoint- 
ment of such an officer. 


x. In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
sections (2) and (3) of section 67A of the said Act, 
the Governor is further pleaded hereby to appoint 
Shri Gokul Behari Bose, retired Sub-Deputy 


Magistrate and Sub-Deputy Collector, to be the 
Executive Ofhcer of the Bankura Municipality in 
the district of Bankura, referred to above, und to 
direct that the Executive Officer shall, during the 
period of his office, exercise and perform the powers 
and duties vested in the Commissioners of the said 
Municipality whether at a meeting or otherwise by 
clauses (1), (31) and (337) of sub-section (2) of 
section 69, sections 93, 132, 129, 130, 131, 1356, 
138, 140, "141, 142, 124, 1b4 except بر0 1+موف دا5‎ 
(3), 156, 157, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 178 and 189 
of the said Act, ‘and the power of said Commis- 
sioners under the rules adopted by them to grant 
leave to their officers and servants. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. M. BARDHAN, 
Jt. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Priated and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, শর Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 25th August 1 


Registered No. C207 No. 428(1) 
a Che 


62 


| তে ১ 


0 | (9821 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1956 


PART [-~Orders and Notifications by the Governor ot Weat 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


DECLARATION 


Burdwan.—No, 14730L.A.—25th August 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 1s 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 

_ of the Union, namely, for excavation of Distribu- 
tary 6B/1 from chainage 64.80 to chainage 158.50 
in connection with the Damodar Flood Control 
Project in the villages of Kuchut and Kaleswar, 
jurisdiction list Nos. 88 and 20, respectively, thana 
Memari, district Burdwan, it is hereby declared 
that pieces of land comprising cadastral survey 
plots as detailed below and altogether measuring, 


2041 


2042 THe CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Paar | 
AUGUST 26, 6 


وڈ ep? Ae ২০৭‏ سولہ een : ones Gea কট‏ چوتجممو آے و کور 


more or less, 3.25 acres are needed for the afore- 
said’ public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Vallay Corporation within the aforesaid villages 
of Kuchut and Kaleswar سس‎ 


DISTRICT BURDWAN 
Thana Memart 
Village Kuchut, jurisdiction list No. ۰. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—819, 18)1, 1903, 
2030 to 2088, 2110, 2226 and 2586. 
Village Kaleswar, jurisdiction list No. 2U. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—665, 803, 886, 


888, 1008, 1087, 1042, 1061, 1062, 1194, 1199, 
1212, 1216 to 1218, 1236 and 109). 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other 
minerals lying under the land or any particular 
portion of the land, except only such parts of the 
mines and minerals as it may be necessary to dig 
or carry away or use in the construction of the 
work for the purpose of which the land is being 
acquired, are not needed, 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6 of Act I of 1894 and section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 188), to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
01109 of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., West 
38725... at West Bengal Govt. Press. Alipore on the 25th August 1936 


No. 42901) 


Kagistered No. C207 


.108 
سد 


৫4014 


17201120741 nary ° 
Published by Authost- 


এক পর 55” رہ‎ On পল হে ০ ARSED PN I OND Net a ese ا‎ OEY SBS আনে “22 


MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 1956 


PART I-Orders and Notifications by the Governor of Wesi 
Bengal, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Reforms 
NOTIFICATION 


Murshidabad.—-No. 14712160869 August 
1956.—In exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 18 of the West Bengal Land 
Reforms Act, 1955 (West Bengal Act X of 1956), 
the Governor is pleased to make the following 
amendment to the notification No. ۱۸08.116 
dated the 116) April 1956, published at 
pages 795 (10) to 795 (19), Part I of the Calcutta 


2043 


2044. THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, [Pany 
AUGUST 87, 1956. 


Gazette, سس‎ mary, dated the 18th April 1956, 
namely: - 


سمیجے 
tong‏ 


বিটি سے‎ 

column 2 of the schedule to the said notifica-‏ ہا 
(ion under the heading “District Murshidabad”---‏ 

Substitute the figure and ~word “VI 
Doyarampur)” for the figure and word “V 
Toyarampur)’’, 

2. Tuis notification shall be deemed to have 
effect and to have always had effect on and from 
the 18th day of April 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. BANERJEE, 
3905, to the Govt. of Weat Bengal. 


lai مس چو‎ 
৮১110050517 published by the Superinten: ant. Govt. Ptg., Weat Bengal 
at West Bengal Govt. Press, Alipore, on the 27th August 1956. 


Registered No. C207 


No. 430(1) 


Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 1996 


a PART I —)rders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
7 Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 
NOTIFICATIONS, 


‘Calcutta,—Nvu. 14816L.A.—27th August 1956. 
—Whereas it wppears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
reorganisution of the State Archives and extension 
of the facilities for historical research in Ward 
No. 41 (old No. 8) of the Calcutta Municipality 
in the city of Calcutta, it is hereby notified that 
au piece of land comprising premises No. 6, 
Bhawani Jutt Lane, und measuring, more or less, 
0.3168 of un acre, bounded on the— 


North—By premises Nos. 98, 96 
Harrison Road, 


Kast—By premises No. 4, Bhawani Dutt Lane, 
South—By Bhawani Dutt Lane, 


West—-By Bhawani Dutt Lane 
Madhab Sen Lane, 


is likely to be needed for the aforesaid ‘public 
purpose at the public expense within the afore- 
said Ward No. 41 (old No. 8) of the Calcutta 
Municipality in the city of Calcutta. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may ‘be inspected in the 
office of the First Land Acquisition Collector, 
Calcutta, at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


In exercise of the powera conferred جا‎ the 
aforesaid section the Governor is pleased to 
authorise the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants anid 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all other acts required or permitted by that 
section. 

Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 


and 94, 


and = Nil 


2045 


notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, 
ut No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


Caicutta.—No. 14818L.A.—27th August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being u purpose of the Union, namely, for 
housing institutions concerned with the improve- 
ment and expansion of training facilities of 
teachers and other educational purposes, in Ward 
No. 59 of the Calcutta Municipality in the city 
of Calcutta, it is hereby notified that a piece 
of land comprising premises No, 6 Lansdowne 
Road, and measuring, more or less, 1.6172 acres, 
bounded on the— 


North—By ‘premises 
Lansdowne Koad, 

Kast—By premises No. 14/A, Rowland Road, 

South—By Common و سای‎ premises 
Nos. 1/9, 1/1, Rowland Road and premises 
No. 8, Lansdowne Road, 


West—By Lansdowne Road, ' 


Nos, 4/1, 4/2 and 4, 


is likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense within the afore- 
said Ward No. 59 of the Calcutta Municipality 
in the city of Calcutta. 


This notification is made under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. ۱ 


A iplan of the land may tbe inspected in the 
office of the First Land Acquisition Collector, 
Calcutta, at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section the Governor ia pleased to 
authorise the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all other acts réquired or permitted by that 
section, 2 তি 


2046 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 27, 1956 


[Parr I 
1 


তে 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the First Land Acquisition Collector, Calcutta, 
at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


NOTICKS. 

Murshidabad.,.---No. 14812L.A.(P.W.).—27th 
August 1936.—Whereas 0.39 of un acre, mare 
or less, of land situated in or near the village of 
Kroali described below has been requisitioned 
under sut-section (1) -of section 3 of the West 
Bengal Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 
1948, by the person authorised under the said 
section $(1) for the purpose of providing facilities 
for irrigation and drainage, namely, for Distribu- 
tary No. 18 of Mayurakshi Dwarka Branch 
Canal in connection with the Mayurakshi Reservoir 
Project ; 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Cov- 
ernor acyulres such land fbeing required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid, 

This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act 11 of 1948), to all whom it 
may concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. ۱ 

Description of the land 


Village Eroali, jurisdiction list No. 106, police- 
station Khargram, district Murshidabad. 


Cadastral survey plot in part—557. 


Birbhum.—No. 14814L.A.(P.W.).—27th August 
1956.—Whereas 0.12 of an acre, more or less, of 
land gituated in or near the village of Kamra 
described below has been requisitioned under 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948, 
by the person, authorised under the said section 
3(1) for the :purpose of providing facilities for 
irrigation and drainage, namely; for Distribu- 
tary No. 9 of Dwarka Brahmani Branch Canal in 
connection with Mayurakshi Reservoir Project; 


Now, therefore, uotice ig hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gov- 
ernor acquires such land being required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 


This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (la) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Act IT of 1948), to all whom it 


may concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Birbhum. 


Description of the land 


Village Kamra, jurisdiction list No. 192, police- 
station Rampurhat, district Birbhum. 


(Cadastral survey plots in part—1433, 1443 and 
1452. 


By order of the Governor, 


P, M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


rinted and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, * 
"at West bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 27th August 1956, 


Registered Ne. C207 


Oa lratts, 


No. 430A(I). 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 1956 


PART I © )rders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS 


Burdwan,—No. 1483841,.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 88۸, 384A, 385A, 867 und 387A of Burdwan- 
Belmuri Section 192 K. V. Transmission Line in 
connection with the promotion and operation of 
schemes for the generation, transmission and 
distribution of electric energy in the village of 
Sonakur, jurisdiction list No. 144, thana Burdwan, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces 
of land comprising parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 43, 485, 436, 406, 671, 749 and 750 and 
altogether measuring, more or less, .1191 of an 
acre are needed for the aforesaid public purpose 
at the expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation 
within the aforesaid village of Sonakur. 


This notification 18 made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damo- 
dar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged. in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the Governor 
18 pleased to dirett that the provisions of section 
A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14838L.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
un purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 65B+10, 66A+10 and 67A ه٤‎ 
Burdwan-Belmuri Section 132 K. V. Trans- 
mission Line in connection with the pro- 
motion wad operation of schemes for the 
generation, transmission and = distribution 9 
electric energy in the villages of Bharpota and 
Chanchai, jurisdiction list Nos. 51 and 46, respec- 
tively, thana Memarni, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that pieces of land comprising cadastral 
survey plots as detailed below and _ altogether 
measuring, more or less, .0779 of an acre are likely. 
to bé needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation within 
the aforesaid villages of Bharpota and Chanchai: 


DISTRICT BURDWAN 
Thana Memari 


Village Bharpota, jurisdiction list N v. Ol. 
৪ gurvey plots ‘in part—482, 500, 506 and 
9. 


Village Chanchai, jurisdiction ligt No. 46. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—39, 64 and 2856. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concer. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damo- 
dar Valley Project, Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in. the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts requred or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 8۵ 
amended by Act XXXVIIT of 1923, the Governor 
15 pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. = 


2046a 


20461) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 27, 1956 [Parr 1 


5 : : 
2 نک‎ “0٦ 


Burdwan.—No. 148421,.A.—-27th August 10950. 


Whereas it nppears to the Governor that land is 


likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being | 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base - 


Nos. 388A, 39A and 40A of Burdwan-Belmuri 
Section 132 K. V. Transmission Line in 00 01 
with the promotion and operation of schemes for 
gencration, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Purbakrishnapur, jurisdic- 
tion list No. 145, thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, 
it is hereby notified that pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 1017, 1046, 1286 
and 1287 and altogether measuring, more or less, 
-0618 of an acre are likely to be needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
village of Purbakrishnapur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and.do ei] other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIIT of 1928, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14846L.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that Jand is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
No. 292A of Kalipahari-Burdwan™ Section 27 
K. V. Transmission Line in connection with the 
promotion and operation of schemes for the 
generation, transmission and distribution of electric 
energy in the village of Sanko, jurisdiction list 
No. 154, thana Galsi, district Burdwan, 11 1s hereby 
notified that a piece of land comprising parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 8553 and 8354 and 
measuring, more or less, .0206 of an acre is likely 
to be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation within 
the aforesaid village of Sanko, jurisdiction list 
No. 154, police-station Galsi. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. " 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being کو اس‎ in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powera conferred by section 
17(4) of the Tand Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVITII of 1923, the Governor 
ia pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
dA of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14850L.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears io the Governor that land is 
‘likely 40 be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 24A,. 25BT and 26A of Burdwan-Belmuri 

Section 132 K. V. Transmission Line in connection 


with the promotion and operation of schemes for 
the generation, transmission and distribution of 
electric energy in the village of Baikunthapur, 
jurisdiction ie No. 91, thana Burdwan, district 
Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces of land 
comprising parts of cadastral] survey plot Nos. 145, 
433 and 689 and altogether measuring, more or less, 
0779 of an acre are likely to be needed for the 
uforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
village of Baikunthapur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may, be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, 10 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred hy section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
OA of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


Burdwan.—No. 14854L.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
No. 29A of Burdwan-Belmuri Section 182 K. V. 
Transmission Line in connection with the promo- 
tion and operation of schemes for the generation, 
transmission and distribution of electric energy 
in the village of Mahipal, jurisdiction list No. 142, 
thana Burdwan, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that a piece of land comprising parts of 
cadastral survey plot Nos. 772 and 775 and 
measuring, more or less, .0206 of an acre is likely 
to be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at 
the expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation 
within the aforesaid village of Mahipal. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) 01 the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, ৮৪ 
amended by Act XXXVITI of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case. 


Burdwan.-—No. 14858L.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 868 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Maithon 
Borrow Area in connection with the Damodar 
Flood Control Project in the village of Debiput, 
jurisdiction list No. ہا‎ thana Kulti, distnet 
Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces of او(‎ 


comprising cadastral survey plots as detailed below 


and altogether measuring, more or legs, 496 
acres, are likely to be needed for the aforesa! 


(Part I 


public purpose at the expense of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation within the aforesaid village of 
Debipur: 


DISTRICT BURDWAN 
Thana Kulti 
Village Debipur, jurisdiction list No. 1 


Cadastra] survey plots in full—», 9, 10, 11. to 
17, 19 to 24 and 34 to 48. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—l, 3, 4, 6 to 8, 
18, 25, 28, 29, 33, 49 and 62 to 5d. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the 
undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIITI of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to this case, 


Burdwan.—No. 14862L.A.—27th August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for Tower Base 
Nos. 68A, 69B, 704, 71A ond 72A of Burdwan- 
Belmuri Section 132 K. V. Transmission Line in 
connection with the promotion and operation of 
schemes for the generation, transmission and 
distribution of electric energy in the village of 
Chanchai, jurisdiction list No. 46, thana Memari, 


PRoted and 
at 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, EXTRAORDINARY, AUGUST 27, 1956 


ublishod by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
Wost Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 27th August 1956, 


20466 


০ পা RE SE موچ‎ ret ই ০ ORS দা 


district Burdwan, it is hereby notified that pieces 
of land comprising parts of cadastral survey plot 
Nos. 1414, 1417, 1426, 1705, 1707, 1708, 1733," 
1734, 646/1790, 2881 and 2894 and altogether 
measuring, more or less, .121 of an acre are likely 
to be needed for the aforesaid public purpose at 
the expense of the Damodar Valley এনা 
within the aforesaid village of Chanchai. 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
said section the Governor is pleased to authorise 


_ the officers for the time being el cha in the 


undertaking, with their servants and workmen, to 
enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 


Any person interested in so much of the above 
lands as are not waste and arable, who has any 
objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date on which ate notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Special Land Acquisition Collector, Damodar 
Valley Project, Burdwan. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act XXXVIII of 1923, the Governor 
is pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to the waste and 
arable portion of the land in this case. ۱ 


By order of the Governor, 


P, M. DATTA, 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


Registered No. C207 No. 43101) 


: a8 
اہ کے‎ 
ae. i 
২8 
٦ بر‎ 
: Meee”, 7 
2 ae ক 4 
’ কও ایر می ےر‎ 272 


۰ রর সখি ৯২1) 47 
NE লু اپ‎ 


é 
প্রা ere 
11705188111 | 
| 


(81008 


-. 


Extraordinary 


Published by Authority 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 28, 1956 


++ পপ 


PART 20190159190 Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, 
the Hig: Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 


HOME DEPARTMENT 
Jails 


NOTIFICATION 
No. 2398H.J.—<8th August 1956.—The following draft of rules 


which in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the 
West Bengal Offenders (Release on Admonition and Probation) Act, 
1954 (West Bengal Act XXXVIII of 1954), read with section 23 of the 
Bengal General Clauses Act, 1899 (Bengal Act I of 1899), the Governor 
proposes to make 18 hereby published as required by sub-section (3) of that 
section for the information of persons affected thereby. 


2. The draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 7th 
September 1956 and any objection or suggestion with respect thereto 


which may he received by the undersigned before that date will be 
considered. 


DRAFT RULES 
{,—CGoneral 


1. (1) These rules may be called the West Bengal Offenders (Release 
on Probation) Rules, 1956. 


2047 


9048 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 [Parr I 


i ca rea রা 

(2) They shall come into foree in the following areas immediately on the 
commencement ot the West Bengal Probation of Offenders (Release on 
Admonition and Probation) Act, 1954 (West. Bengal Act XX XVITI of 1954), 


in those areas, that is to say,— 


The town of Calcutta, as defined in section 3 of the Calcutta Police 
Act, 1866 (Bengal Act IV of 1866), the suburbs of the town of 
Calcutta as defined by notification under section 1 of the 
Calcutta Suburban Police Act, 1866 (Bengal Act II of 1866) 
and in the districts of Howrah aud Hooghly. 


(3) In these rules unless the context otherwise requires— 

(a) *‘district’’ includes the Presidency town of Calcutta and “District 
Magistrate’? includes the Chief Presidency Magistrate in the 
Presidency town of Calcutta; 


(0) ‘‘form’? means a form appended to these rules; 


(c) ‘‘Inspetcor-General’’? means the Inspector-General of Prisons, 
West Bengal; 


(৫) ‘probation’? means supervision of an offender in pursuance of an 
order passed under sub-section (4) of section 4; 


(6) ‘Probation Officer’? means a Probation Officer referred to in section 


9 


(1) “probationer’” means any offender in respect of whom a super- 
vision order is passed under sub-section (4) of section 4; 


(y) ‘section’? means a section of the Act; 


(h) “the Act’? means the West Bengal Offenders (Release on Admoni- 
tion and Probation) Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act XXXVIII of 
1954). 


i!.—Inspector-Ceneral—Powers and Duties 


৫. The Inspector-General shall exercise throughout the State general 
supervision over the administration of probation. The Chief Probation 
کا‎ and other Probation Officers shall be under his administrative 
control, 


3. The Inspector-General shall prepare and submit an annual report 
to the State Government on the working of the system of probation. 


4. The report referred to in rule 3 shall be incorporated in the 
Inspector-General’s annual administration report for the year ending on 
the 3lst December immediately preceding the date of the report and shall 
contain, tnter-alia, the following particulars, namely; 


(a) Number of Probation Officers employed in each district. 


(b) Salary and other expenses paid to Probation Officers and subsidy 
to the societies or organisations providing Probation Officers 
recognised by the State Government. 


parr I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 2049 


re Oe meneame eee 
(c) Number of probationers placed under supervision of Probation 
Officers. 


: 9 

(0) Number of cases in which conditions of probation have been 

varied under section 6, and the number of cases in which the 
probation order has been revoked under section 7. 


(৪) Duties other than the work of probation performed by the Proba- 
tion Officers. 


(f) Account of expenses incurred in connection with the working of 
the system of probation. 


(g) Such other particulars as may be directed by the State Government 
from time to time by order made in this behalf. 


111.—Chief Probation Officer—Duties and Functions 


5. An officer shall be appointed for the State of West Bengal by the 
State Government designated as the Chief Probation Officer. Subject to 
the control and supervision of the Inspector-General, the Chief Probation 
(06061. stall administer the work of probation throughout the State, and 
shall direct, supervise and be responsible for the proper performance of 
the work of Probation Officers. 


6. The Chief Probation Officer shall submit to the Inspector-General 

half-yearly, in July and January, reports on the work and conduct of 
‘Probation Officers during the half-year immediately preceding the date of 
the report and such other reports and particulars as may be called for by 
the Inspector-General from time to time. 
7 The Chief Probation Officer shall meet every Probation Officer 
periodically and shall examine the case records of all important cases. In 
particular, he shall pay attention to the manner in which the probationer 
in such cases has been looked after generally, the number of times he has 
been met and visited at home, in office or 10 his place of employment, the 
nature of the vocation selected for the probationer, the job fixed for him, 
the manner in which his family ond other difficulties have been handled, 
how he spends his leisure, who his associates and what his earnings and 
savings are. 


\ 


8. In carrying out his duties, the Chief Probation Officer shall have 
regard to the following matters, namely :— 


He shall see that the Probation Officers work properly and exercise 
their influence for the rehabilitation of probationers. He shall 
also issue necessary orders to this end and ensure that his orders 
are carried out. He shall endeavour to make his inspection help- 
ful and shall not merely look for faults and defects but shall try 
to help the Probation Officers by giving them the benefit of his 
greater experience and wider view of life. 


1V.—Probation Officers 


9. The headquarters of a Probation Officer shall ordinarily be the 
headquarters of the district but the Inspector-General may, in consulta- 
tion with the District Magistrate, fix a sub-divisional headquarters as the 


2050 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 [Parr آ‎ 


Someone 


headquarters of a Probation Officer. The jurisdiction of a Probation Officer 
shall cover the whole of the এ in which he is posted, or any other area, 
specified for the purpose by the State Government. The headquarters of 
a female Probation Officer shall be fixed by the Inspector-General and her 
jurisdiction shall cover such area as the Inspector-General may determine 
with the approval of the State Government. The posting and transfer of 
Probation Officers shall be made by the Inspector-General. 


10. Every Probation Officer shall, on appointment or recognition by 
the State Government, be furnished with an Identity Card os nearly as 
possible in Form I, which shall be returned to the Inspector-General when 
the Probation Officer is placed under suspension or ceases to hold office. 


11. The Inspector-General shall, as soon as possible, give notice to all 
Courts, concerned if any person ceases or is about to cease to be a 
Probation Officer. 


V.—Absence of Probation Officers on leave 


12. The Inspector-General may grant casual leave to the Chief Proba- 
tion Officer and the Chief Probation Officer may grant casual leave to other 
Probation Officers. The granting of all other kinds of leave to the Chief 
Probation Officer or any other Probation Officer shall be subject to the orders 
of the Inspector-General on application made to him in this behalf by or 
through the Chief Probation Officer, as the case may be. 


Vi.—Duties of Probation Officers 


13. When directed by a Court, a Probation Officer shall make prelimi- 
nary enquiries into the circumstances and home surroundings of an offender 
in respect of whom the question of making an order under the Act may 
arise. . _ 


14. The report on enquiries made under rule 13, shall be made as 
nearly as possible in Form II, and shall contain, inter-alia, the information 
indicated in rule 15 and such other information as may from time to time 
be laid "2 by the Inspector-General or as may be required by the Court 
concerned. 


15. In making enquiries under rule 18, the Probation Officer shal] have 
regard to the following :— 


(1) Circumstances connected with the offence. 
(2) Antecedents. 
(3) Personal factors— 

(৫) Age, place of residence, ete. 

(৮) Physical characteristics, if any. 


(6) Psychological traits—personality, character, and emotional 
stability. 


(d) Education. 
(e) Work and record of work, income. 


(f{) Leisure time activities. 


Panr 1] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 2051 


pe a a 
(4) Family history, relations with members of family, economic condi- 
tion of the family. 


(6) Associations. 


16. All information collected on enquiry referred to in rule 18 shall be 
concisely stated, evaluated and presented in the report submitted to the 
(Court under rule 14 not later than the day on which it is due. 


17. Probation Officers shall not divulge any information concerning 
their enquiries or work of probation to any person other than the authorities 
to whom they are required to report, except in so far as 1٦١ 18 necessary to 
do so in the interest of the probationer. ۱ 


18. Female probationers shall be placed under the supervision of female 
Probation Officers where the services of such officers are available. 


All cases where a female probationer is placed under the supervision of 
a male Probation Officer, shall be reported immediately to the District 
Magistrate and the Chief Probation Officer. 


19. A Probation Officer shall explain to the probationer the conditions 
of the supervision order, and shall by warning and persuasion and by the 
exercise of personal influence, endeavour to ensure the observance thereof 
by the probationer. If the probationer disregards any of the conditions, 
the Probation Officer shall make a report as 5 provided. 


20. The Probation Officer shall maintain a case record in respect of 
every probationer in which shall be recorded every important event and 
significant change in the behaviour, activities, attitude and associations 
01 the probationer during the period of probation. 


21. In recording cases the Probation Officer shall be objective and 
factual, The records kept by him shall, as far as practicable, indicate all 
rituation and developments affecting the probationer. The sources of 
information shall be clearly stated. 


22. All Probation Officers shall, subject to any directions given by the 
Court (whether in the probation order or otherwise) or by the Chief 
Probation Officer, visit the houses of the probationers. The Probation 
کت‎ shall supplement such visits by making enquiries in the neighbour- 
001. 


23. The Probation Officer shall keep in close touch with the probationer 
and shall during the first month of probation meet him as frequently as is 
necessary. Jater the number of visits or meetings shall depend on the 
conduct and mode of life of the probationer, but shall not normally be less 
than once a month. A Probation Officer shall advise and befriend a proba- 
tioner and, where necessary, endeavour to secure suitable employment for 
him. He shall also assist him in averting evil influence and victimisa- 
tion, and to this end secure the assistance of public authorities, if 
necessary. 


<4. In planning out the course of reformation the Probation Officer 
shall have regard to the matters mentioned in rule 15. In the case of 
young probationers particular attention shall be paid to the family 
conditions and associations of the probationers. 


_ #0. The probationer shall be required by the Probation Officer occa- 
sionally to report himeelf at the Probation Officer's office. The Probation 
Officer shall also decasionally visit the probationer at his residence. The 
time and place of reporting shall be so arranged as not to cause unnecessary 


2052 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 [Parr | 


سب تج سس 


hardship to the probationer afd to secure proper privacy and to avoid 
probationers associating with each other. 
¢ 


26. In the case of school-going boys or girls, the Probation Officer shall 
make enquiries regarding the boy or girl from his or her teacher 88 to 
his or her attendance and progress, but the boy or girl shall not be visited 
in the school premises. 


27. In the case of young probationers under 16 years of age, the Proba- 
tion Officer shall endeavour to secure the probationer’s membership of some 
recognised organisation for the care and protection of the young such ag 
the Sunday School, club, the Association of the Boy Scouts and Girl 
Giuides of other similar associations. 


8. A Probation Officer shall not unnecessarily disclose his identity or 
functions to those with whom he may come in contact in the course of his 
duties. 


29. A Probation Officer shall not wear any badge distinctive of his 
office. 


Vil.—Report By Probation Officers 


30. When an offender is released on probation and placed under the super- 
vision of a Probation Officer by a Court, the Probation Officer shall, without 
delay, send to the Chief Probation Officer a statement as nearly as 
possible in Form III containing the particulars of the offender entrusted 
to him. 


31. A Probation Officer shall report on the conduct and mode of life 
of a probationer and generally on his progress to the Court before which the 
probationer is bound by his bond, in accordance with any direction 
riven by the Court. Copies of the report shall also be sept at the same 
time to the Chief Probation Officer by the Probation Officer. Reports 
shall be made, unless otherwise directed by the Court, once every month; 
they تا الله‎ marked secret and addressed to the Presiding Officer of the 
Court by name. They shall not be published. 


de. Ifa probationer fails to observe any of the conditions of the bond 
and supervision order, and if the failure is not such as ¢an be 1۳50076 or 
if the matter cannot be set right by the personal influence of the Probation 
Officer without the intervention of the Court, the Probation Officer shall 
report the matter to the Court before which the probationer is hound by 
his bond and pray for the Court’s order. A copy of the report shall also 
he sent at the same time to the Chief Probation Officer by the Probation 
Officer. A copy of the Court’s order when passed shall also be sent by the 
Probation Officer to the Chief Probation Officer. 


33. A Probation Officer shall send to the Court and the Chief Proba- 
tion Qfficer a final report on the conduct and progress of each probationer 
on the termination of the period for which he is placed under supervision. 


Ps Every Probation Officer shall submit to the Chief Probation 
Officer, — 


(1) a half-yearly report in January and July on the conduct and 
progress of all probationers in his district during the half-year 
immediately preceding the date of the report containing, 
inter alia, the following particulars, namely :— 

(a) number of probationers at the beginning of the half-year; 


(6) number of offenders placed on probation during the half-year; 


Papt 1] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 2053 


(c) number of probationers whose probation terminated during the 
half-year; , 


(d) number of probationers who reverted to crime during the half-year; 


(e) general remarks on the psychological changes of the probation- 
ers, employment secured, educational and other activities 
- towards reclamation during the half-year; and 


(f) number of probationers at the end of the half-year. 


(2) such other reports as may be required hy the Inspector-General or 
the Chief Probation Officer’ under rule 35 or as may be directed 
by the State Government. : 


8 


35. The Inspector-General or the Chief Probation Officer may, at any 
time, call for a special report on any probationer from the Probation Officer 


conrerned, 


86. Every Probation Officer shall maintain the following records: — 


(1) A diary showing his day-to-day work including preliminary 
enquiries, attendance at Courts, visits to probationers, contact 
made in the advancement of probation work and other duties. 
A copy of the diary shall be submitted to the Chief Probation 
Officer every week. The diary shall be closed on the 84 
December each year and deposited as a confidential record in the 
Office of the Chief Probation Officer. 


(2) Separate files in respect of each probationer containing a history- 
sheet for each recording all important events during the period 
of his probation and reports including copies of preliminary 
reports submitted by him and orders passed by the Court 
during the preiod of probation. In case ৪ probationer 
is permitted by the Court to live in another district, the 
file relating to him shall be transferred to the Probation Officer 
concerned of the other district and a report sent to the Chief 
Probation Officer. 


(3) An index card and chronological record as nearly as possible in 
Form IV 


(4) Such other records as may be directed by the Inspector-General 
from time to time. 


37. The District Magistrate or any other officer, not below the rank of 
a Deputy Magistrate, duly authorised by him, may inspect the work of any 
Probation Officer and any record in the Office of the Probation Officer 
working within his jurisdiction. 


48. After the expiry of the period of probation, the history-sheets shal] 
he maintained in the (ffice of the District Magistrate in the district and 
in the Office of the Inspector-General in Calcutta. The history-sheets, 
index cards and chronological record shall be maintained as 17 Class 
records and preserved for 12 years. Other papers mentioned in rule 36 
shall be preserved for 3 years. 


2054 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 [Panr I 


সস 


39. <A Probation Officer may, for due discharge of his duties, apply to 
the appropriate Court for haying access to the records of his cases. He 
may ‘also ask for permission to take notes or copies of the recorded parti- 
culars and reports relating to his case for use in the performance of his 
duties. Where such permission is granted, he shall, in no circumstances, 
communicate the contents of the records to any other person without the 
specific sanction of the Court. 


| X.—WMiscellaneous 


_ 40. The bond referred to in sub-section (1) of section 4 to be entered 
into by an offender ordered to be released on probation shall be as nearly as 
possible in Form ۰ 


Bart I] THE CAL, GAZ. EXTRY., AUG, 28, 1956 2055 


FORM | 
(See rule 10) 


(Front cover) 


COVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
Prisons Directorate 
Probation Department 
‘IDENTITY CARD 
(Back cover) 

Instructions 


1. This card is meant for establishing the identity of the holder as a 
Probation Officer. 


2. The holder shall keep the card in hia personal custody and shall be 
responsible for the safe custody thereof. Any loss or subsequent recovery 
of this card must be reported immediately to the Inspector-General of 
Prisons, West Bengal. 


3. This card shall be returned to the Inspector-General of Prisons, 
ক Bengal, when the holder is placed under suspension or ceases to hold 
office. 


Disciplinary action will be taken against the holder if the card is‏ کے 
misused in any way.‏ 


' | শিস 
٠+ 


(Inside) 17 


১৪:19] No. (Machine numbered) Issued 


to Probation Officer 


Shri/Sm......... দির দন্কা مع‎ . = 
v 
(Gin Block letters) a | Photograph of Holder 
ও. 
(Signature) 
Inspector-General of Prisons, West: 
Bengal. | 
Date ہے ےد تہ‎ ee 
(Photograph to be embossed by the 
seal of the Government of West 
Bengal.) 
a 


(Full signature of the holder.) 


2056 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 [Parr ধু 


FORM || 
(See rule 14) 
Report on preliminary enquiries 
9], No. Under the West Bengal a (Release on Probation) Rules, 


In the Court of the Magistrate, 
(place) (district) 
C.C. No. 19. Date of hearing: ...........csccee08 « "ئ0‎ 
*Offence: 
State (police-station) Crime No. 19. 
Name of offender**, son of 


Address (place of residence) 
Age 


Sex and religion 


PERSONAL HISTORY 
Behaviour and habits (moral, recreational, etc.) 
Temperament (outstanding character and personality traits) 
Physical and mental history and present condition 
Leisure time activities 


“Give section and brief description. 


**Tn block letters. 


EXTERNAL INFLUENCES 


School record and report of teachers, if available. 


I'mployment history 


Present occupation and wages (give also conditions of labour, leisure; etc.) 


parr 1 THE CAL, GAZ, EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 2057 


Report of employer, if any 
Associates 

Contact with social and religious organisations. if anv 
Home conditions 

Family history 

Father 

Mother 

Step-father 

Step-mother 

Brothers 

| Sisters 

Wife 

Children 

Other interested relations, if any 
Economie condition of the family 


Any social agencies, institutions or individuals interested in the family 
Report of parents and relations 


Attitude of family towards 
offender and extent of its 
influence on offender 


Report of neighbours 


Home surroundings and general outlook 


2008 THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG, 28, 1956 [Part & 


LEGAL HISTORY 


۹ 


Previous Institutional record, if any 


Statement of the present offence and 
circumstances in which 16 was committed 


Qffender’s own reaction to the offence and 
his attitude towards possible punishments 


Summary of investigations (give assets and liabilities) 


\ 


Remarks of the Probation Officer including 
recommendation regarding probation 


Name and address of the Probation Officer 


৫৮. 
پھر‎ 


تم 


tation 
Date 


Probation Officer. 


Nature of disposal of the case 


Date of Disposal 


2059 


IATRY., AUG, 28, 1956 


THE CAL. GAZ. I 


Parr 7! 


5০9৭০‏ ںووحمد- 
oy} jo syYITBUMISY‏ 


2 


7 — لے‎ আজ" - . 2a ০ ০ ae শপ এস সক نہ۸ہکہے‎ 
و ا‎ ভি ও رواےہ ہو‎ ক کیہ مان‎ Me ® ٠. ٦ Ries ٠ 


sqq jo Adoo ০2006)‏ أكتئ ۳۶م ০০95702059৭ 128 2০০09‏ جہ 097" PUB 15590 এ 551900978৭9 BIY) YIM Buoys 0 ٠3‏ تموصیع- 


*৪০90:০] 098 
; ۲8 ঢু فا‎ "SUIBU 8, 13438} 
peAojduy : 0 ! - “1 pus Jeuoijeqoid jo 9০৩৮ 


oS eee সহ‏ سس ہے یہ 


tit (804. 


2060 
Serlal| Name of proba- 
No. tioner, father’s 
name and 
808۸۰ 


হরর পরও সারারাত ওযা 
ٴ۰‎ 


Bex, age, 
religion, 
etc. 


(0 6 
and sen- 


tence 
(give 
section 


and brief 
desorip- 


tion of 
offence), 


S‏ دیو کی رر OT * tein‏ تک سر رر 
a‏ : مموصسیوویممججوڈکُجوھجموجچضغمجیبواومسفاد ا ০‏ 


| t 


THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 


Court 
rasaing 


supervi- 
alon 
order 
and 
period 
of super- 
vision. 


Dato of 


[Parr I 


FORM 
Ohronological Record of 


{Under rule 9603) of the Weat Bengal 


Wh 


Prelimt- | Name 


Name of 
Probation nary 10117 1 9 and 
Officer. _quiry address 
Report of 
dub tmit- sureties, 
ted or: and 
not. (If 1 amount 
ہار‎ of 
od, give | ۰ 
E. No 
and 
date.) 
7 8 9 | 


রিটা سد‎ 


*ণ০ be filled in after the expiry 


Part I] THE CAL. GAZ. EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 
7 تحت‎ 


Persons placed on probation. 


Offenders (Release on Probation) Rules 1056, 


2061 


MOccupae | Any : i *Result of ۱ ۱ ۱ 
tion, if 18480180107 og 07018. Subsequent history after 90115487171 of probation. 
wages; | original চর a and 
namie — aa 3 2 | remarks 16 
0 : 0 
proba- ~ 21 € | proba 
mote | و‎ 81811 
ate o : / o eer, 
such ا‎ ۵ tes . if any. Firat Second. Third. 16), 
valintion. year. year. 56৮, year. 
eo FTE 
পরিসর [| mapngeyamn লন ০১০৩৩১০১০০০ গাউন" لہ دیو ہدس اہ دی الا مار زار"‎ স্বাগতা 
11 12 18 14 15 (a) (6) (৫) (6) 


در رنہ رر رر یں ٦ت‏ ت۳ ' ' ۰ " ۰ we aay‏ وھ টি‏ 3.2 
০ 0 " ٠‏ 


aan জজ 


Or terminatiog of probation, | 


2069 THE CAL. GAZ: EXTRY., AUG. 28, 1956 [Parr 1 
FORM V 
_ Bond | 
(See rule 40) ٰ 


{Under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the West Bengal Offenders (Release 
on Admonition and Probation) Act, 1954. ] ‘ 


IN THE COURT OF THE MAGISTRATE | 
Case No. _ or :19 
Whereas 1 , inhabitant of 
have keen found guilty of an offence and sentenced to imprisonment for 
by the Court of and have been ordered to 


be releattd by the said Court on condition of my entering into a bond to 
keep the peace and be of good behaviour, to remain. under the supervision 
of a Probation Officer and to observe the conditions imposed by the super- 
vision order made by the Court, I hereby bind myself 


(1) not to commit a breach of the peace or do any act that may 
probably occasion a breach of the peace and to be of good 
behaviour to the State and all the citizens of India; 


(9) to remain under the supervision of a Probation Officer ; 


(3) to accept and fulfil the conditions specified by the Court in the 
supervision order and any variations in the conditions which 
may be made by the Court. 


In case of my making default therein I hereby bind myself to forfeit to 
Government, the sum of Rupees 3 


This bond shall remain in effect for 
Duted this | day of 19 


Signature. 


Executed before me. 


Sureties— Magistrate. 


I/We do hereby declare myself /ourselves for 
the abovenamed that he will observe the conditions specified in the super- 
vision order and in the bond and in case of making default therein I/we 
bind myself /ourselves jointly and severally, to forfeit te Government. the 
sum of Rupees | 


Dated this day of 196 


۵۶6 Signature 


Executed before me. Magistrate, 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, Secy. 


Printed and published by the Superintendent, Government Printing, West Bengal, 
at West Bengal Government Press, Alipore on the 28th August 1986. 


Registereg™ C207 Ne. 432(1} 


(0111 


2 (GT) 

১ 

۶۲ء 05 

২17 
َو‎ 

ا 2 


0)6 00 (Gazette 
MD 
“arta جو‎ 
Extraordinary 
Published by Authority 


سج رتس تحت تح تحت ০০ meant‏ 


TUESDAY, AUGUST 28, 1956 


samen 


শি شس‎ 
মা স্পা লা es " ںہ‎ 
مسطریویوواجٹیر:‎ || ۲ " দি کرو‎ জা مج رکا‎ পপি mE 


* a জজ 
٣ জজ 
ee ot: جک‎ 


PART#%-Orders and Not! scations by the Governor of Wee. 
Bengiul, the High Court, Government Treasury, etc. 


GOVERNMENT OF WEST BENGAL 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


Political 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 6697P.—27th August 1956.—Whereas for 
the prevention of disturbances of the public 
iranquillity and of riots and affrays within the area 
deacribed in the schedule below, the Commissioner 
of Police, Calcutta, issued an order, dated the lst 
July 1956, under section 144 of the Code of Crimi- 
nal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), prohibiting, 
with effect from the Ist July 1956, until further 
orders, any assembly of five or more persons within 
the said area or the carrying of any lathis or other 
dangerous, weapons or the doing of any act which 
is likely to cause a disturbance of the public 
tranquillity or a riot or an affray, within the said 
1لا‎ 009 ; 


2063 


2004 THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE EXTRAUKUINA ری‎ 
AUGUST 28, 1986 


Be eae Sa এ এজ উপ শি Aen AR PSS DOA A Se ye ہے‎ 9 পপ سے‎ 


And whereas it appears’to the State 1০ 
that there is still a likelihood of Mote and affra, 
within, the said aren and that it is necessary t 
continue in force the said order of the Commissioner 
‘of Police, Caleutta; 


Now, therefore, in, exereise of the pow 
ferred by sub-section (6)gof section 144 of the Cape 
of Criminal Procedure, 1898 {Act V of 1898), ‘the 
(Jevernor is pleased fo ‘disect that the said order 
gf the Commissioner of Police, Calcutta, dated the 
lst July 1956, under the said section shall remain 
in force, until the 1061) September 100: 


The Schedule 


The area within the jurisdiction of Hare Sta 
police-station in the Town of Calcutta bounded— 


On the North by Hastings Street (the street 
being excluded) ;’ 

On the South by Auckland Road and Lawrence 
Road up to the South Gate of Raj Bhawan 
(the roads being included); 


On the Kast by Government Place West (the 
road being included); and 


On the West by Strand Road (the road being 
excluded). 


Explanation.—In this schedule ‘Town ‘df 
Calcutta’’ means the town of Calcutta as defined 
in section 3 of the Caleutta Polee Act, 1866 
(Bengal Act IV of 1866). 


0011 


By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, 
Secy. to the Govt. of Weat Bengal. 


Printed ar. published by the Superintendent, Govt. Ptg., Weet.Ben gal, 
at Weet Benga) Govt. Press, Alipors, on the 28th August 1856. 


Pegi. ٠ # No, 07 


ہا ۹ یع 
Published by Autiority‏ 


First Hublished in March, 4 


No. 35 of 1956 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1956 


The u.dermentioned Extraordinary issues of the “Calcutta Gazette” were published 
up to 17th August 1956 


Iasue No. Order/Notification/Declara- 
tion No. and date. 
404(T) »» No. 2516A.R., dated the 13th 


Department, 


Home (Constitution and 


August 1956. Elections). 
“A05(III) .. No. 1970L., dated the 18th Legislative 7 
August 1956. 

406(1) .. No. 28184 dated the 13th Home (Constitution and 
August 6۰ Elections). 

407(T) .» No, 14278L.A., and 2 others, Land and Land Revenue 
dated the 138th August 
1969, 

408)1( No. 14290L.A., dated the 13th Ditto ১, os 
August 19586. 

409(T) ১০ No, 14832L.A.(P.W.), dated Ditto .. 7 
the ط140‎ August 1956. 

410(1) No. 14362L.A.(P.W.), and Ditto 7 er 
another, dated the 16th 
August 1956. 

41101) No. 14356L.Rof., dated the Ditto .. 7 
16th August 1956. 

412(1) .۔‎ No, 6307P., dated the 16th Home (Political) 
Auguat 1956. 

47301) .. Noa. WBLC/6/56(6)B.L., Election Commission, 
dated the 2nd Auguat 1056, dia, 
WBLC/10/56(7)B.L., dated 
the 3rd August 1956 and 
29/10/56, dated the 13th 
August 1956. ۱ 

414)1( 0ی‎ 14432L.4., and 3 othera, Land and Land Revenue 


dated the 17th August 1956. 


Subject. 


۷ 


[97981979708 assent to the West Bengal Land 
( isition and Acquisition) (Amend- 
ment) Bill, 1956, 


West Bongal Act XXV of 1056 “ 


Authorising some officers, mentioned therein, 
to appoint any person as the Additional 
Revising Authority in réspect of the 
48889100015 constituencies or parta thereof, 
specified therein. 


Acquisition of land in Burdwan district and 
an erratum to a declaration. 


Acquisition of land in Burdwan district oe 
Acquisition of land in Birbhum district دہ‎ 


Acquisition of land in Birbhum and Murshida- 
bad distriota. 


Draft amendment in thé West Bengal Estates 
Acquisition Rules, 1954, to be taken into 
consideration on or after the 23rd August, 
1956. 


Authorising the carrying Git of seaward 
artilory practioe over the aroas, described 


therein, in tho districts of 24-Parganas and’ 


Midnapore, on 22nd and 28rd August 1956, 


Names of persons nominated as candidates 
for olection to the by-election to the Weat 
Bengal Logislative Council and জাত 
ant) their election agents, who failed to 
lodge their election exponses in time ; and 
further extending the period up to 8 
Anguat 1956 within which claims and 
objections under the Representation of the 
People (Preparation of Electoral Rolls) 
Rules, 1956, are to be made in respect of 
the electoral rolle af all the constituencies 
comprised in the State of West Bengal. 


Acquisition of land in Burdwan district ৪৪. 


Pages. 


1987 


1988 


1981 


1003-19904 


1995-1996 


1997-1698 


1999-2000 


2001-2002 


2003-2004 


2005-2006 


2007-2008 


8290 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 Pave 1 
এরি 
CONTENTS: 
Page. Page. 


PART I.—Orders and notifications by the 
Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, 


Government Treasury, 9৮০0, 44 3259-3348 
PART IA.—-Orders and notifications of the 

Government of India, Statutory notifications 

of the Election Commission, India, and other 

Election notifications published for general 

information. Orders and notifications which 

have originally been published in the ‘‘Gazette 

of India” are only republished ** 331—-336 
PART IB.—Educational Notices ২, ‘i 481 
PART V1.—Advertisements, notices .. 395— 404 


PART III.—Acts of the West Bengal Loegisla- 
ture 7 ee ee es Nil 


PART J1LI1A.—Ordinances promulgated by the 
Governor of West Bengal under the Consti- 
tution of India -۰ ee oe Nil 


PART IVA.—Bills introduced in the Weat 
Bengal Legislative Assembly: Reporte of 
Select Committees presented or 
presented to @hat Assembly; and Bills pub- 
lished before introduction in that Assembly Ni) 


PART IVB.—Billa introduced in the West 

Bengal Legislative Council; Reports of 

Select Committees presented or to be 

resented to that Council; and Bills published 
tore introduction in that Council 4 Nil 


PART V.—Aots of the Parliament of India 
assented to by the President and Ordinances 
promulgated by the President— 


Tho Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 237—~—262 
PART VI.—Bills introduced in Parliament of | 

India; Reporte of Select Committees presented 

to Parliament; and Bills published befo 

introduction in Parliament 7-7 Nil 


SUPPLEMENT No. 35— 


Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West 
Bengal for the week ening the 16th August 
1956 ee ee ee ee 525—~-526 


Wholesale Market prices of Agricultural 
and Animal Husbandry Products (average 
quality) in Districts during the month of 
November 1955 7 7 ১»: 527--7 


Caloutta Improvement Trust—Notification ১, 578 


PART I—Orders and Notifications by the Governor of West Bengal, the High Court, Government 
Treasury, etc. 


tha 1۱| a 
HOME DEPARTMENT 


সাধারশ শাসল। 
Genera] A: minis» 50010 


নং ৩১৭৭জ,এ। 
No, 3177G.A. 


।নক্সাগ ও Wait 
Appointments and Transfers 


সাধারণ। 

General. 
No. 3084G.A./78/53-Part Il.—l7th August 
1956.—The Governor was pleased to reinstate 


Shri B. C. Chatterji, [.A.S. (since retired), to a 
senior scale post in the J.A.S. cadre of this State 
on the 6th January 1956 and to permit him to 
retire from service with effect from the 7th Janu- 


ary 1956. 


২৪-পরগনা-দ।- পং।-নং ৩১০৭জি,এ। ১ডি-১৯। ৫৬।--২১এ 

আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ ।--২৪-পরগনা জেলার এ।।পপদরের সহ-শাসক ও সমা:৩। 
Uy রমা মজঃমদার, আ-,এ,এস, পালং জেলার সদর ٹن کی‎ 
প্রাপ্ত ے١‎ 


24-Parganas.Darjeeling.—No. 3107G.A. /1D- 
19/56.—21st August 1956..-The Governor 68 
eased to appoint Kumari Roma Mazumdar, 
A.S., Assistant Magistrate and Collector, Ali- 
pore, 24-Parganas, to have charge of the Sadar 
Subdivision of the Darjeeling district. 


দাজিশলং-মোদনীপুর নং ৩১০৮জি,এ। ১ড-১৯। ৫৬ ।--২১এ 
আগস্ট ১৯৫৬০ লং জেলার উপ-শাসক ও সমা.তর্ণ Acre 
মুখোপাধ্যায় মোদিনীপুর জার ঝাড়গ্রাম মহ “মার ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 

Darjeeling-Midnapore.—No. $108G.A. /1D- 
19{56.—21 st Auguat 1906.—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to aypoint Shri J)ur- 
gesh Chandra Movkherjee, Deputy Magistrate 
and Deputy Collector, Darjeeling, to bave charge 
ef oe Jhargram Subdivision of the Midnamore 
istrict. | 


বর্ধসান-খ نا‎ f--=t ৩১০ <8 ,۵ 1 ১ডি-১৯ 1৫৬1--২৯৬এ আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ ।--বরধমান জেলার উপ-শাসক ও HAE wT শ্রীবিমলরঞ্জন চক্রবতশ 
বাঁয়ছুম জেলার সদর মহমার ভারপ্রাপ্ত হহলেন। 


এতম্বারা এই বিভাগের OF ০8 ১৯৫৬ তার-খর ২৬৩০জি,এ, নং 
“বঞ্ঞাপ্ততে প্রদত্ত যে আদেশে و ھی ئل‎ জেলার مر‎ নিযুক্ত 
করা -হুয়াছল CET এ৪্রতল করা ۱ 

Burdwan-Birbhum.—No. 3109G.A. /1D-19/56,— 
2150 August 1956.—The (Governor is pleased to 
appoint Shri Bimal Ranjan Chakrabarti, Deputy 
Magistrate and Deputy Collector, Jurdwan, to, 
have charge of the Sadar Subdivision of the Pir- 
bhum district. ۱ | 


This cancels the orders contained in this depart- 
ment notification No. 26380G.A., dated the 6th 
July 1956, posting him to the Vishnupur Sub- 
division of the Bankura district. 


TIA WRT IA ৩১১০ জি,এ। ১ডি-১৯। ৫৬।--২১এ আগস্ট 
১৯৫৬ ।-বাপঃন জেলার উপ-শাসক ও ری ہمہ‎ Rent hay 
বন্দ্যোপাধ্যায় হুদা জেলার আরামবাগ মহকুমার ভারপ্রাপ্ত হইলেন। 


Birbhum-Hooghly.—No. 3110G.A./1D-19/56.— 


2181 August 1956.—The | Governor ৪ 
pleased to appoint Shri Gouri Sankar 
Banerjee, Deputy Magistrate ond Deputy 


Collector, Birbhum, to have charge of the Aram- 
bagh Subdivision of the Hooghly district. — 


By order of the Governor, 
S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


24.Parganas.—No. 3105G.A./ 30-7 /56.—21st 
August 1966.—The Governor is pleased to 8۸۴ج‎ 
Shri Rabindra Nath Sinha, No. II, Sub-Deputy 
Magistrate and Snb-Deputy Collector, on leave, 
to be a Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy 
Collector in the 24-Farganas district and to post 
him to the headquarters station of that district. 


No, 3116G.A./48/56.—22nd August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to post Shri Chittaranjan. 
ay Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub-Deputy: 
Collector, on probation, in the Presidency Divi- 
sion. ; 


24-Parganas,—No. 3125G4.A. /8P-282 /56.--22nd 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to trausfer 
Shri Bishnupada Mukherjee, Subh-Magistrate and 
Sub-Collector, Barrackpore, 24-Purganas, to the 
headquarters station of that district. 

This cancels the orders contained in this depart- 
ment notification No, 2636G.A., dated the 6th 
July 1956, posting him to the Lalbagh Subdivi- 
sion of the Murshidabad district. ۱ 


Dane dy 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3261 


™-Parganas.—No. 


3126G.A. /8P-282 /56,—22nd 

pugust 1956.—The Governor is pleased to transfer 
Shri Tej Bahadur Singh, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, Alipore, 24-Parganas, to the 
Barrackpore Subdivision of that district. 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


আরঙ্ষা। 
: Police. 

২৪-পরগনা ।--নং OSOOTR,Q | ৩প-৪৩। ৫৬।--২৩এ আগস্ট <۲ 

শাখার বিশেষ সায়ক শ্রী এস, বসু, আংপ,এস, কাং ভার‏ جج 

গ্রহণের OEY হতে পুনরাদেশ WOKS ২৪-পরগনা জেলার চার শাখার 


24-Parganas.—No. = 31 33G.A. ee {56.—23rd 
August {956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Shri S. Basu, I.P.8., Special Assistant, Intelli- 
gence Branch, to act, until further orders, as Addi- 
tional Superintendent of Police, District Intelli- 
gence Branch, 24-Parganas, with effect trom the 
date of his joining the post. 


By order of the Covernor, 


S. N. RAY, Chief Secy. 


সাধারণ। 
General. 
wie 
| Leave. 

No. 3087G.A. 1 August 1956.— 
—The Governor was pleased to allow Shri Kiriti 
Kumar Mukherji, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector, leave on average pay for 
the period from the 2186 June 1956, to the 20th 
July 1956, under rule 184(b)(ii) of West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part J. 


No. 3089G.A. /21.-21/56.—2Uth August 1956.— 
In modification of the orders contained in this 
department notification No. 646G.A., dated the 
23rd February 1956, the Governor was pleased to 
allow Shri Bibhas Chandra Ghosh, Deputy Magis- 
trate and Deputy Oollector (since retired), leave 
on average pay for the period from the 30th Janu- 
ary 1956 to the 30th April 1956, under rule 
184(b)(i1) of West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, 
read with rule 18501) abid. 


২৪-পরগনা।-নং  ৩০৯৭াঁজ,এ। ২ইএল-২৭। ৫৬।--২০এ আপস্ট 
১৯৫ড৬।--২৪-পরগনা জেলার আগপুরের উপ-শাসক ও ۹ 
بے :ات‎ বিশ্বাসকে পশ্চিমবঙ্গ جری۔‎ নিয়মাবলশর (১ম খণ্ড) 
১৬৭৫২) সংখাক cerita ৯ই জং ১৯৫৬ তারিখ হতে ১৪ই 
জিৎ ১৯৫৬ তাঁরখ পর্যন্ত view 7টি মঞ্জুর করা হইল। 


, 24.Parganas.—No. 3097G.A./2L-27/56.—20th 
August 1956,—The Governor was leased to allow 
Shri Dinabandhu Biswas, Deputy Magistrate and 
Deputy Collector, Alipore, 24-Parganas, earned 
leave for the period from the 9th July 1956 to 
the 14th July 1956, under rule 167(ii) of the 
West Bengal Service Rules, Part ۰ 


By order of the Governor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


কিক 
ক 


Defence 
_ NOTIFICATIONS 

No. 1218H.D./1E-42/55.—8rd August 1956.— 
‘he Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Sashi 
Shusan Banerjee, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and Sub- 
Jeputy Collector, Uluberia, Howrah, to act, until 
curther orders, as the Administrative Officer, West 
Pengal National Volunteer Force, (ھ٤‎ (Biswa- 
“arma) Battalion, Bangiya Agragami Dal. 


No, 1242H.D. /1B-42/56.—4th August 1986. 
he Governor was pleased to appoint Shri S. M. 
‘anguly, Administrative Officer, West Bengal 
Mional Volunteer Force Training Centre, Hali- 
har, to act, until further orders, as the Adminis- 
‘tive Officer, West Bengal National Volunteer 


Force Training Centre, Cooch Behar, vice Shri 
P. B. Rana, resigned. 
By order of the Governor, 
| . B. SURITA, 
State Defence Co-ordination Otticer and 
Dy. Secy. to the Govt. of West Bengal. 


30 و‎ ۱ 
Publicity 
SMF | 
NOTIFICATION. 
নং ৯৩১৮পাব।--১৪ই আগস্ট ১৯৫৬ ।---লল্াষ্ম প্রেচার) বিভাগের 
অবেক্ষাধীন সহ-প্রচার আধ শ্রীমনোজৎ pres, sok মে ১৯৫৬ 
CIEL! کت‎ CH পদে স্থায়।ভা.ব a. কয়া ۱ 
রাজ্যপালের আদেশানসারে, 
ہپ‎ TS, 
“WE ۱ 
Noa. 9318Pub.—l4th August 1956.—The Gov- 
ernor has been pleased to confirm Shri Manojit 
Bose, Assistant Director of Publicity, Home (Pub- 
licity) Department, on probation, in that appoint- 
ment with effect from the 13th May 1956. 
By order of the Governor, 
R. GUPTA, Secy. 
Political 
ORRIGENDUM 
No. 6289P.—16th August 1956.—In the Calcutta 
Gazette, Extraordinary, Part I, dated the 10th 
August 1956, page 1959, in the Schedule to the 
West Bengal Cinemas (Regulation of Public Exhi- 
bitions) Rules, 1956, f 
or 


‘13. The relative position of the picture screen 
and seats shall be such boarding or lodging house, 
factory, workshop or manufactory or for storage 
purposes, except as the licensing authority may, 
for the time being, allow, nor shall such place 
be used for residential purposes by day or night.’’ 

read 

“12. No portion of the place licensed shall be 
occupied or used as hotel, boarding or lodging 
house, factory, workshop or manufactory or for 
storage purposes, except as the licensing autho- 
rity may, for the time being, allow, nor shall such 
place be used for residential purposes by day or 
night.’” 

By order of the Governor, 


M. M. BASU, Secy. 


সি 


Transport 
NOTIFICATIONS 

No. 4644W.T.—14th August 1956.—The follow- 
ing draft of an amendment which, in exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 68 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 
1939), the Governor proposes to make in the 
Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 1940, published 
with notification No. 1980P1., dated the 21st 
September 1940, at pages 2645-2829 of Part I o° 
the Calcutta Gazette of the 10th October 1940, as 
subseyuently amended (hereinafter referred to as 
the said rules), is hereby published, as required by 
sub-section (1) of section 133 of the said Act, for 
the information of persons likely to be affected 


thereby. 

4 The draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 9151 August 1966 and any objection or 
suggestion with respect thereto which may be 
received by the undersigned before that date shall 
be considered. 

۱ Draft Amendment | 

In the said rules—in sub-rule (2) of rule 0748) in 
lines 2-8, after the words ‘State Government”, 
insert the following words, namely  : — 

“or to a Co-operative Society specifically 
exempted in this behalf by the State 
Government in the Home (Transport) 
Department,” 


9202 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


No. 4648W.T.—20th Augtist 1956.—Shri A. K. 
Mitra, Maintenance Superintendent, Home 
(Transport) Department, is aliowed under rule 
161011) of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part I, 
earned leave for the period from 18th August 
1956 to 9th October 1956, with permission to 
affix thereto the Puja holidays (j.e. from J0th 
October 1956 ta 21st October 1956). | 


By order of the Governor, 


J. N. TALUKDAR, Secy. 


BRATS 


No. 4610W.T.—20th August 1956.—Shri D. 0. 
Ghosh has been appointed to the temporary 
Gazetted post of Foreman under the Cooch Behar 
State Transport Organisation, with effect from 4th 
June 1956, until further orders. 


[Parr | 
No. 4590W.T.—20th August 1956,—In exercise 
of the powers conferred by sectiona 2] and 41 of 
the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), the 
Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ments in the Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 1940, 
published under notification No. 1980P1., dated 
the 2198 September 1940, at vages 2055-2829 of 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazeite of the 10th Octo- 
ber 1940, as subsequently amended, namely :— 


Amendments 


In sub-rule (a) and in sub-clause (i) of clause 
(2) of sub-rule (c) of rule 7, in clause (1) of 
sub-rule (h) of rule 20, in sub-rule (a) and in 
clause (1) of sub-rule (b) of rule 30, and in clause 
(i) of sub-rule (b) of rule 40 cf the said rules, for 
the words ‘‘Additional Transport Commissioner, 
West Bengal’’ substitute the words “Transport 
Commissioner, West Bengal’. 


এ 

No. 4594-WT/T3A-5/56.—16th August 1956.—The following draft of 
amendments which, in exercise of the power conferred by section 68 of the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), the Governor proposes to make in 
the Bengal Motor Vehicles Rules, 1940, না with notification 
No. 1930PL., dated the 218% September 1940, at pages 2656-2829 of Part I 
of the Calcutta Gazette of the 10th October 1940, as subsequently amended 
(hereinafter referred to as the said rules), is hereby published, as required 
by sub-section (1) of section 133 of the said Act, for the information of per- 
sons likely to be affected thereby. 


2. The draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 25th 
August 1956 and any objection or suggestion with respect thereto which 
may be received by the undersigned before that date shall be considered. 


Draft Amendments 


In rule 62 of the said rules—(1) in sub-rule (i),— 
(a) omit the words ‘‘not being a Government servant or a member of 


Parliament or of the State Legislature’’ £ 


(b) to sub-rule (i), add the following proviso, namely :— 


“Provided that the fee of fifteen rupees shall not be admissible to 
a Government servant or to a member of Paliament or of the 


State Legislature.” 


(2) In rule 53 of the said rules— 


(a) in sub-rule (1), omtt the words “‘not being a Government servant 
or a member of Parliament or of the State Legislature’’ : 


(b) to sub-rule (i), add the following proviso, namely ;— 


‘Provided that the fee of ten rupees shall not be admissible to a 
Government servant or to a member of Parliament or of the 


State Legislature’’. 


DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 6685/2C-41/56.—2nd August 1956.—The 
Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ment in this department notification No. 6650/ 
2C-65/54, dated the 17th October 1955, constitut- 
ing the District Development Council for the dis- 
trict of Jalpaiguri and the Subdivisional Develop- 
ment Committees for Jalpaiguri Sadar and Alspur- 
1(08 subdivisions, namely :— 


Amendment 


Substitute “Shri P. D. Mochari, President, 
Nararthali Union Board, P.O. Kamakshyaguri, 
Jalpaiguri”, for Shri Meheruddin Ahmed, village 
Chapererpar, P.O.  Salsalabari, Jalpaiguri’, 
appearing in serial No. 3 under the category of 
“Members nominated by the Deputy Commis- 
sioner’? in the list of members for the Alipur- 
Duars Subdivisional Development Coramittee. 


’ the Suhdivisional 


By order of the Governor, 
B. K. SEN, Asst. Secy. 


No. 6846/2C-3/56.—8rd August 1956.—The 
Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ments to the list of members of the District Deve- 
lopment Council for the district Cooch Behar and 
Development Committees of 
Sadar, Mathabhanga, Dinhata, Tufangonj and 
Mekliganj subdivisions of the district published 
with this department notification No. 6676/2C- 
44/54, dated 18th October 1955, namely :— 


Amendments 


District Development Council, Cooch Behar 
1. Substitute “The Senior Deputy Magistrate 
and Deputy Collector, Cooch Behar, Secretary’; 
fer “The Additional Deputy Commissioner, Cooch 
Behar, Secretary”, in serial No, 2 and add the 
following to the bottom of the list of members 
under the category of “Officials” :— 
“28. The Superintendent of 1১01109, Cooch 
Behar, . 
29. The District Industrial Officer, Cooch 
Behar’. : 


Parr 1[ 


পপ SORA IME SOAS 


7 

2. Substitute the heading “Members of Lok 
Sabha and Stute Legislature” for ‘Members of 
State Legislature’ and 

(a) ensert .ا“‎ Shri S. ©. Roy Singh, M.1.A., 
Denuty Minister’’ ; 

(b) renumber the existing sefials “1, 2, 3, 4 
and 6” as serials “2, 3, 4, 5 and 6+ res- 
pectively; and 7 

(০) add the following below the new serial 
No. 6: 


0. 6:— 

“7. Shri Upendra Nath Barman, M.P., P.O. 
Jalpaiguri. . 

8. Shri Amiya Kanta Bose, M.P., 32/1 
Ganga Prosad Mukherjee Road, 
Caleutta-25, 

9. Shri Birendra Nath Katham, M.P., 


village Kathambari, P.O. Chengmari, 
Jalpaiguri.” 


Subdivisional Development Committee, Subdivi- 
sion Cooch Behar Sadar 
3. Substitute the heading ‘Members of Lok 
Sabha and State Legislature’ f-7 the heading 
“Members of State Legislature’? and add_ the 
following below serial No, 1:— 


“2. Shri Upendra Nath Barman, M.P., ۰ 
Jalpaiguri. 

3. Shri Amiya Kanta Bose, M.P., 32/1 Ganga 
Prosad Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-25, 

4. Shri Birendra Nath Katham, M.P., village 
Kathambari, F.O. Chengmari, Jalpaiguri.” 


Subdivisional Development Committee, Subdivi- 
sion Dinhata 


4. Substitute the heading ‘Members of Ik 
Sabha and State Legislature” for the heading 
‘“Members of State Legislature’ and (a) insert 
“1. Shri S.C. Roy Singh, M..A., Deputy 
Minister,’ as seriul No. 1; (b) renumber the 
existing serial No. “1’’ as serial No. “2”; and (c) 
add the tollowing below new serial No. 2:— 

“3. Shri Upendra Nath Barman, M.P., P.O. 
Jalpaiguri. 

4. Shri Amjya Kanta Bose, M.P., 32/1 Ganga 
Prosad Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-25. 

6. Shri Birendra Nath Katham, M.P., village 
Kathambari, P.O. Chengmari, Jalpai- 
gurl.” 

Subdivisional Development Committee, Subdivi- 
sion Mathabhanga 


5. Substitute the heading “Members of Tok 
Subha and State Legislature’? for the heading 
“Members of State Legislature’ and :ہہ‎ the 
following below serial No. 1:— 

“2. Shri Upendra Nath Barman, M.P., P.O. 

Jalpaiguri, 
3. Shri Amiya Kanta Bose, M.F., 32/1 
(7089, Prosad Mukherjee Road, Caleutta- 


25. 
4. Shri Birendra Nath Katham, M.P., 
villaze Kathambari, P.O. Chengman, 


Jalpaiguri.” “ 


Subdivisional Development Committee, Subdivi. 
sion Tufanganj 

6. Substitute the heading “Members of Lok 

Sabha and State Legislature’ for the heading 

“Members of State 5 and add the 
following below serial No. 2:— 

“3. Shri Upendra Nath Barman, M.P., P.O. 


Jalpaiguri, 
4, Shri Amiya Kanta Bose, M.P., 1 
Ganga Prosad Mukherjee Road, 


Caleutta-25. 
5, Shri Birendra Nath Katham, 8122 
village Kathambari, P.O, Chengmar, 


Jalpaiguri.” 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3263 
সস 


Subdivisional Development Committee, Subdivi- 
sion Mekligan; 


7. Substitute the heading ‘Members of Lok 
Sabha and State Jiegislature’’ for the heading 
“Members of State Legislature’ and ddd the 
following below serial No. 2:— 


“3. Shri Upendra Nath Barman, M.P., P.O. 
٠ Jalpaiguri. 
4. Shri Amiyu Kanta Bose, M.b., 32/1 
Ganga Prosad Mukherjee Road, Culeutta- 
20. 


5۰. Shri Birendra Nath 
village Kathambari, 
Jalpaiguri’. 


Fao 2C-20/55.—11th August 1956.—In 


exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) 
ot section 3 of the West Bengal Development Cor- 
poration Act, 1954 (West Bengal Act XIV ot 
1955), the Governor 18 pleased hereby to establish 
a Develdpment Corporation for West Bengal and 
to notify “The West Bengal Development Corpo- 
ration” as the name of the said Corporation. 


Katham, M.P., 
P.O. Chengmari, 


By order of the Governor, 
11. BANERJERN, Secy. 


No. 6756/1E-45/56.—lst/3rd August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to appoint Shri N. D. 
Sanyal, Assistant Engineer under Design Division 
of the Construction Roard, to act temporarily as 
Assistant Engineer, Taherpur subdivision under 
Contract Division, with effect from the date he 
takes over charge and until further orders. 


His headquarters will be at Taherpur. 


067 /2C-20/55.—l1th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by section 4 of the 
West Bengal Development Corporation Act, 4 
(West Bengal Act XIV of 1955), the Governor 16 
pleased to direct that the West Bengal Develop- 
ment Corporation, established by notification 
No. 7066/2C-20/55, dated the 11th August 1956, 
under, sub-section (1) of section J of the said Act, 
shall consist of-— 


(1) Shri Biren Mukherjee of 7 Warrington 
Street, Calcutta, who is herehy appointed 
as the Chairman and member of the said 
Corporation, and 


(2) the following persons who are hereby 
appointed as the other members’ of the 
said Corporation, namely سے‎ 


(a) Dr. Sambhunath Banerjee of 7 Kayatola 
Lane, Ballygunge, Calcutta. 

(b) Shri D. N. Mitra of 2 Hungerford Street, 
Calcutta. 

(০) Shri B. P. Singh Roy of 5/14 Hunger- 
ford Street, Calcutta. 

(d) Shri B. M. Birla of 8/7 Alipore Road, 
Calcutta. 

(e) Shri K. K Roy of P-9 Gariahat Road, 
Calcutta. 

(f) Shri A. Ramswami Mudaliar of 9 Lower 
Rawdon Street, Calcutta. 

(z) Shri N. N. Majumdar, Special Officer and 
er 010০ Secretary to the Government 
of West Berfgal in the Finance Depart- 
ment---Nominated under rule 80৪) of 
the West Bengal Development Corpo- 
ration Rules, 1956, representing the 
Government of West Bengal. 


3264 _ BHE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


لج AREY ERR AS er reenact hte সা শা SERRE Sd‏ سو ےج ও‏ ہج رہ ہش 


(h) Shri H.. Banerjee, [.0.8., Development 
Commissioner and e« officio Secretary 
to the Government of West Bengal in 
the Development Department-——Nomi- 
nated under rule 30) of the West 
Bengal Development Corporation 
Rules, 1956, representing the Covern- 
ment of West Bengal. 


No. 7091/1¥8-45/56.—11th/18th August 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to appoint Shri N. D. 
Sanyal, Assistant Engineer under Design Division 
of the Construction Board, to act temporarily as 
Assistant Engineer, Gayeshpur Subdivision under 
Contract Division, with effect from the date he 
took over charge and until] further orders. 


2. The orders contained in notification 
No. 6756/18-45/56, dated Ist August 1946, are 
hereby cancelled. 


By order of the Governor, 
H. DAS GUPTA, Asstt. Secy. 


a 


CORRIGENDA 


No. 6855 /2C-31/56.—3rd August 1956.—In the 
list of members of the District Development 
Council for the district of Malda published under 
this department notification No. 513/2C-66/54, 
dated 17th January 1956, read— 


(89) The Sub-Overseer, Archaeology, ۰ 


(40) The Subdivisional Officer, Works and 
Buildings Department, Malda.’’. 
for— 


£(99) The Overseer, Archaeology, Malda. 


(40) The Overseer, Works and 
Department, Malda.”, 


Buildings 


appearing under the category of “Officials’’ and 
add “(44) The Subdivisional Health Officer, 
Malda” below the existing serial “(43) The Inspes- 
tor, Siik and Smal] Scale and Cottage Industries, 
Malda”’ under the category of “‘Officials’’. 


No. 7032/2C-59/56.—10th August 1956.—In 
this department notification No. 6051/20-658 / 4ہ‎ 
dated 17th October 1955, constituting the District 
Development Council for the district of West 
Dinajpore and the Subdivisional Development 
Committees of Sadar and Raiganj subdivisions of 
the district of West Dinajpore— 


Read— 


(2) “The District Livestock Officer, Malda-West 
Dinaypore” for “The District Tivestock 
icer, West Dinajpore” appearing 
against serial No. 12 in the lst of mem- 
bers of the West Dinajpore District 
Development Counei] under the category 

of “officials”; and 


(ii) “The Assistant Livestock Officer, Raiganj, 
West Dinajpore” for ‘“The Assistant Live- 
stock Officer, Balurghat” . appearing 
against serial No. 18 in the 1196 of mem- 
bers of the West Dinajpore Sadar Sub- 
divisional Development Committee under 
the category of “officials”. 


No. 7045/20-10/56.—11lth August 1956.—In 
this department notification No. اش‎ 20-71 / 55, 
dated 17th October 1955, constituting the District 
Development Council for the district of Birbhum 
and the Subdivisional Development Committees for 


? 
[Parr 7 
৩ ৩ AEE SEIS SEAS OOO تد ج وی‎ 

"lg 


the subdivisions of Sadar and Rampurhat in the 
district*of Birbhum— 


read “The Subdivisional Officer, Trrigation, 


Rampurhat, Birbhum’? and ‘“The Sub- 
divisional Offieer, Roads,  Rainpurhat, 
Birbhum” for “The Subdivisional 
Officer, Irrigation, Suri, = Birbhum’’ 


and “The Subdivisional Officer, Roads, Suri, 
Birbhum’’ respectively appearing against 
serial Nos. 8 and 9 in the list of members 
of the Subdivisional Development Com- 
mittee, Rampurhat subdivision, under the 
category of “‘officials’’, 


ADDENDA 


No. 7033/20-14/56.—10th August 1956.—To 
this department notification No. 6649/2C-65/54, 
dated 17th October 1956, constituting the istrict 
Development Council for the district of Howrah 
and the Subdivisional Development Committees of 
Sadar and Uluberia subdivisions of the district of 
Howrah— 


Add— 


(£) “15. The Block Development Officer, 
Domjur N.E.S. Block, P.O. Domjur, 
Howrah” below serial No. 14 in the lst 
of members of the Sadar Subdivisional 
Vevelopment Committee under the cate- 
gory of “officials”; and 


The Block Development Officer,‏ .14“ رم 
Bagnan and Shyampur N.E.S. Block,‏ 
P.O. Uluberia, Howrah” helow existing‏ 
serial No, 18 in the list of members of‏ 
the UWluberia Subdivisional Development‏ 
Committee under the category of‏ 
“officials”.‏ 


No. 7046/2C-57/56.—I1th August 1956.—To 
this Department notification No. 829/2C-43/54, 
dated 28th January 1956, constituting the District, 
Development Council for the district of Murshi- 
dabad and the Subdivisional Development Com- 
mittees for the Sadur, Lalbagh, Jangipur and 
Kandi subdivisions of the district of Murshidabad 


add— ۱ 


(1) “23. The Assistant Registrar of Co-opera- 
tive Societies, Murshidabad. 


24. The District Livestock Officer, Murshida- 


bad. a 
25. The Social Kducation Officer, Murshida- 
bad. 
26. The Justrrct Malaria Control Officer, 


Murshidabad (South)’”’ 


below serial No, 22 in the list of members of the 
District Development Council, Murshidabad, 
under the category of “‘officials’’ ; 
(11) “28, The Chairman, Jangipur Municipa- 
lity, P. 00. Jangipur, Murshidabad. 


29. The Chairman, Dhulian Municipality, 
P. O. Dhulian, Murshidabad’’, 


below seria] No, 27 in the list of members of the 
District Development Council, Murshidabad, under 
ee category of ‘‘Representatives of local bodies” 
an 


(111) “6. The Chairman, Jangipur Municipa- 
lity, P. O. Jangipur, Murshidabad. 


7 The Chairman, Dhulian Municipality, 
۲ O. Dhulian, Murshidabad”’ 


below serial No. 5 in the list of members of the 
Jangipur Subdivisional Development Committee 
under the category of ‘‘Representutives of local 


bodies’’, 
By order of the Governor, 
H. BANERJER, Secy- 


Part 1[ 


৯.৬ পিএ পপ 8 SEN পপ পক 
পপ পপি ০০০ পিসীর পাস পা সপ সত সদা সত 


Community Development Projects , 


NOTIFICATION 


No, 6724C.D.P.—9th August 1956,—The Gov- 
ernor is pleased to appoint Shri Bhabatosh Pal, 
Agronomist, Extension Training Centre, No. TI, 
Fulia, in the district of Nadia, temporarily as 
Leader in the aforesaid Extension Training Centre 
until further orders. 


By order of the Governor, 


S. .کا‎ BANNERJI, 


Deputy Development Commissioner and 
ez officio Dy. Secy. to the Govt. ot 
West Bengal. 


DEVELOPMENT (ROADS) DEPARTMENT 


Establishment 


NOTIFICATION 


\No. 39D.E.—16th July 1956.—Shri° Girija 
Prosanna Sen Gupta, lately Executive Engineer, 
Hooghly Construction Division under Road 
Development Directorate, was allowed earned leave 
for. five days with effect from 8th May 1956 to 
12th May 1956 under rule 167(i1), West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I, read with rule 226(1)(3), 
ibid, 

By order of the Governor, 


B. MUKITERJEE, Addl, Asstt. Secy. 


۰٠٠۱۹ বিভাগ । 
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT 


নং ৩১৭৮জ,এ। 
No. 3178G.A. 


شش 

Powers | 
ہہ ہ*‎ ।--নং ৩০১৯৫জ,এ। ইোপ-৫৯। یم 3سا ن۱۴‎ আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-- 
মালদহ জেলার উপ-শাসক শ্রীমূপালকা ল্ত রায়কে দ্বিতীয় শ্রেণীর শাসকের 
ক্ষমত অর্পণ করা ۱ 

Malda.— No. 3095G.A. /2P-69/56.—20th August 

1956.—The Governor is pleased to vest Shri 
Mrinal Kanti Roy, Deputy Magistrate, Malda, 


the powers of a 815৮7100660 the Second‏ نا 
.1888( 


By order of the Giovernor, 
T. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


ہے 


Judicia_ 


Appointments and. Transfers 


_ No, 51330.—13th August 1956.—The Governor 

is pleased ما‎ appoint Shri Asoke Kumar Sen, 

Barrisier-at-Law to act, until further orders, as 

5 Junior Standing Counsel for the State of West 
engal, 


By order. of the Governor, 


K. .کا‎ HAJARA, Secy. 


,ftowrah.—No. 91641.--130 August 
Tho (Jovernor is pleased to appoint Shri Santosh 
Aumar (thosh, Subordinate Judge, to be Assistant 


Seasions Judge of the district of Howrah, 


1956. 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 8 3209 


উস 


Powers 


No. 5104J.—14th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 14 and the proviso 
tc section 357 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1898 (Act V of 1898), the Governor is pleased—— 


(a) to confer upon Shri Bibhuti Bhusan Bose 
the powers of a Magistrate of the first 
- class, in the district of Burdwan, for a 
period of one year with effect from 19th 
August 1956 in respect of such cases as 
may be made over to him within the 
limits of the Sadar. subdivision of the 
said district, and 


(b) to direct him to take down evidence in the 
English language. 


NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. 5028).—10th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 4 
of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment — 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act 
XXI of 1949), the Governor is pleased to distn- 
bute to the Nadia Special Court constiuted ‘by 
notification No. 46382J., dated 22nd August 1982, 
under section 2 of the said Act, the following case. 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
the said Act, to be tried by the said Special 


Court :— 
Case 
The State versus (1) Ananto Kumar Sarkar, 
রঃ clerk. office of the Subdivisiona] Controller, 


Food and Supplies, Krishnagar, son of 
Ashutosh Sarkar, Golapatti, (2) Sachindra 
Kumar Chakrabarty, Sub-Inspector, Food 
and Supplies Department, son of late 
Rajkumar Chakrabarty, Chowdhurypara, 
and (3) Benoy’ Kumar ‘Mitra, Additional 
Subdivisional Controller, Food and Supplies 
Department, son of Sashi Bhusan_ Mitra, 
Chand Sarak, olice-station (0191), 
district Nadia. All the three accused are 
charged under section 420, I.P.C. 


No. 50303 .—10th August 1956.—In exercise ot 
the power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1949’, the Governor is pleased to distribute to 
the Nadia Special Court constituted by Notifica- 
tion No. 4682J., dated 22nd August 1952, under 
section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
the said Act, to be tried by the said Special 
Court سی‎ 


Case 


The State versus Amal Krishna (Guha, _ poat- 
man, Kanchrapara T.B. Wospital Post 
Office, son of Kedar Nath Guha, of RBel- 
gharia, police-station, Barrackpore, district 
24-Parganas, under section 409, I.P.C. 


No. 503273.—10th August 1956:—In exercise 
of the power conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law 
Amendment (Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West 
Bengal Act XXI of 1949), the Governor 1৯ pleased 
to distribute to the Nadia Special Court consti- 
tuted by notification No. 4682J., dated 22nd 
August 1952, under section 2 of the said Act, the 
following case invelving an offence specified in the 
schedule to the said Act, to be tried by the said 
Special Court سس ؛‎ 


Case 


The State versus Amal Krishna (tuha, 1১081 
man of Kanchrapara T.3$. Hospital post 
Office, son of Kedar Nath Guha, of Bel- 
gharia, police-station Rarrackpore, district 
24-Parganas, under section 409, T.P.C— 


G.R. case No. 52/55. 


3266 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 
পা a Tn onal 


No. 50343.—10th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section: (2) of section 4 
of the West Bengal Criminal aw Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act ۱1 
of 1949), the (tovernor is pleased to distribute to 
the Nadia Special Court constituted by notification 
No. 46327., dated the 22nd August 1952, under 
section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
the said Act, to be tried by the sami Speciai 
Court :— 

Case 


The State versus (1) Ananta Kumar Sarker, 
clerk, office of the Subdivisional Controller, 
Food and Supplies, Golapatti, son of 
Ashutosh Sarkar, police-station Kotwali, 
district Nadia, and (2) Benoy Kanti Mitra, 
Additional Subdivisional Controller, Food 
and Supplies, Krishnagar, son of Sashi 
Bhusan Mitra, Chand Sarak, police-station 
Kotwali, district Nadia. Both the accused 
are charged under section 420, I.P.C. 


No. 5036J.—l10th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1949), the Governor is pleased to distribute to 
the Nudia Special Court constituted by notification 
No. 4632J.. dated the 22nd August 1952, under 
section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
the said Act, to be tried by the said Special 
Court :— 

Case 


The State versus Amal Krishna Guha, postman 
of Kanchrapara T.B. Hospital Fost Office, 
son of Kedar Nath Guha of Belgharia, 
police-station Barrackpore, district 24-Par- 
ganas, under section 409, I.P.C. —G.R. 
case No, 1135 of 1924. 


No. 5087J.—14th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
4 of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act XXI 
of 1949), the Governor is pleased to distribute to 
the West Bengal 2nd Special Court constituted by 
notification No. 4632J., dated 22nd August 1952, 
under section 2 of the said Act, the following case 
involving an offence specified in the schedule to 
the said Act, to be tried by the said Special 
Court :--- 

Case 


The State versux (1) Mohit Mohan Manna, Tax 
Collector-cum-Cashier, Barrackpore Municipality, 
son of late Hriday Krishna Manna, Talpukur, (2) 
Arun Kumar Neogy, Head Clerk-cum-Accountant, 
Barrackpore Municipality, son of late Banwari Lal 
Neogy, Sastitala Road, Charnock, police-station 


[art I 


سا 

Tittagarh, (8) Panehu Gopal Sadhukhan, دم‎ 
Chaifman, Barrackpore Municipality, son of late 
Hari Charan Sadhukhan of Sastitala Road, police- 
station ‘Tittagarh, (4) Gopal Chandra Sarkar, ex- 
Vice-Chairman, Barrackpore Municipality, son of 
late Jogendra Nath Sarkar, West Talpukur, 
police-station Tittayarh, (5) Hiralal নিন্দা 
30116061708 Sarkar, Barrackpore Municipality, son 
of late Kartick Ch. Mookerjee of Nona-Chandan- 
pukur, police-station Tittagarh, (6) Bholanath 
Banerjee, Collecting Sarkar, Barrackpore Munici- 
pality, son of late Khudiram Banerjee, Charnock, 
Bowhbazar, police-station Tittagarh, (7) Surajmal 
Singh, Collecting Sarker, Barrackpore Municipa- 
lity, son of late Gayadin, Panpara, police-station 
Tittagarh, (8) Kartick Chandra Mookerjee, Collect- 
ing Sarkar, Barrackpore Municipality, Ananda- 
puri, Central Road, police-station Titagarh, and (9) 
Nagendra Nath Bhattacharjee, Collecting Sarkar, 
Barrackpore Municipality, son of late Kshetra 
Nath Bhattacharjee, Bhattacharjeepara, police- 
station Tittagarh. All the accused persons are 

charged under sections 409/120B, 1,۰ 


No, 5101J3.—10th August 1956.—In exercise of 
the power conferred by sub-section. (2) of section 4 
of the West Bengal Criminal Law Amendment 
(Special Courts) Act, 1949 (West Bengal Act সুতা 
of 1849), the Governor is pleased to distribute to 
the West Bengal 2nd Special Court constituted by 
notification No. 4632J., dated the 22nd August 
1952, under section 2 of the said Act, the follow- 
ing case involving offences specified in the schedule 
x بس‎ said Act, to be tried by the said Special 

ourt سے‎ 


Case 


The State versus (1) Hari Bhusan Chatterjee, 
formerly Chairman, Kamarhaty Munici- 
pality, son of late Shyama Charan Chatter- 
jee, of 16 Bhagabati Charan Chatterjee 
Street, Belghoria, police-station Bara- 
nagor, district 24-Parganas, under sections 
12018 /409, Indian Penal Code; (2) Barada 
Prosad Chatterjee, formerly Cashier and 
Accountant, Kamarhaty Municipality, son 
late Jyoti Prosad Chatterjee, of Khardah, 
police-station Khardah, district 24-Par- 
ganas, under sections 120B/409, I.P.C., 
and (3) Prufulla Kumar Ghosal, formerly 
General Assistant, Collection Inspector 
and Cashier, Kamarhaty Municipality, son 
of late Kshirode Chandra Ghosal, of 1 
Nawab Abdul 14801 Street, Belghoria, 
police-station Baranagar, district 24-Par- 
ganas, under sections 120B/409, TPC. 
Accused Nos. 2 and 3 are also charged 
under section 409, I.P.C. 


By order of the Governor, 
A. K. DAS, Dy. Seey. 


FINANCE DEPARTMENT 
Audit 


NOTIFICATION. 


No. 3378F / F/2h-1(8)/56.——11th August 1956.—In exercise of the power 
conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution of India, the 
Governor is pleased to make the following rules regulating the recruitment 


of Treasury Assistants in the West Bengal Secretariat 


Branch, namely سے‎ 


in the Accounts 


Rules - 


1. These rules may be called the West Bengal Subordinate Services 
(Recruitment of Treasury Assistants in the West Bengal Secretariat Accounts 


Branch) Rules, 1956. 
2. Notwithstandin 


anything contained in the West Bengal Services 


(Revision of Pay) Rules, 1950, a Treasury Assistant in the West Beneal 
Secretariat in the Accounts Branch shall draw pay in the scale of Rs, س )س70‎ 


118—4—160, 


Part J] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 S267 


امرس শী পি‏ دی نھد সপ‏ جے مو سسدرد اج পিপি ০৮‏ اہ بد উপ ই‏ نہ موہ সপ‏ 


উকি PORTAGE A eB eho en min eit ৯ مد‎ . $৮ ১১৯ 
oman hil 

ہہ لچے পপ আদ nace পপ‏ سے ০৯ tr cl‏ اھ ہی چد LTE LIL LE LAD tO OT CCL পপ ০ CEN‏ ےر سے سے AY OEIC NS‏ ا 
কপি‏ 


۱ ہا مم‎ উকি 


(৬০৮০৮ পপ rey 


পার 


ঙ 
3. Appointment to the post of Treasury Assistant tn the West Bengal 
Secretariat Accounts Branch (hereinafter referred to as the said post) shall 
ordinarily be made by promotion from amongst those permanent Collecting 
Sarkars of the Accounts Branch of the West Bengal Secretariat who have 
put in at least five years’ service and who have a good record of service: 


Provided that direct appointment to the said post may be made by selec- 
tion through the State Public Service Commission if no suitable candidate 
be available in the Accounts Branch of the West Bengal Secretariat for 


promotion. 


4. A candidate appointed to the said post shall furnish cash security 
of five hundred rupees and two personal securities of equal amount. 


5. The ا‎ required for direct recruitment to the said post by 
al 


selection shall be as follows:— 


(i) the candidate must have passed the Schvol Final Examination of 
the Board of Secondary Education, West Bengal, or any other 
examination equivalent to that standard; and 


(11) the candidate must have experience in handling cash and in treasury 
and accounts work in pay offices for at least two years. 


Taxation 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 1765F.T.—13th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor 18 pleased to post Shri K. C. Saha, Assistant 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, from Calcutta 
to Jalpaiguri Circle, Jalpaiguri, with effect from 
the date on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1766F.T.—138th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor 18 pleased to post Shri 1১, C. Gupta, Assistant 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, from Calcutta 
to Asansol Circle, Asansol, with effect from the 
date on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1767F.T.—13th August 1956.—The Govere 
nor is pleased to post Shri J. C. Chatterji, Assis- 
tant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, 60 
Howrah Circle, Calcutta, with effect from the date 
on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1768F.'T.—13th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri A. Bhattacharjee, 
‘Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, 
Caleutta (Central) Circle, to work as Assistant 
Commissioner of Commercial Taxes; Calcutta 
(“outh) Circle, in addition to his duties as Assistant 
(mmissioner of Commercial Taxes, Calcutta 
(Central) Circle, with effect from the date on which 
he assumes charge in the Calcutta (South) Circle. 


No. 1769F.T.—183th August 1956.—The 0০0৬6] 


nor is pleased to post Shri N. 0. Dutton, Assis- 
tant Commissioner of Commercial] Taxes, Calcutta 
Bel) Circle, to Calcutta (North) Circle with 
effect from the date on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1770F.T.—13th August 1955.—The Gover- 
nor 18 pleased to post Shri N, ©. Dutt, Assistant 
-OmmMissioner of Commercial Taxes, Calcutta 
(North) Circle, to Calcutta (South) Circle with 
effect from the date on which he assumes charge. 


No. 1788F.T.—14th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor ig pleased to appoint the following Commercial 
Tax Officers, Grade II, to officiate temporarily as 
Commercial Tax Officer, Grade I, with effect from 
the date on which they assume charge, until* fur- 
ther orders: سے‎ 

(1) Shri Satyabrata Mukherjee. 

(8) Shri Samarendra Mohan Bose. 

(3) Shri Himangshu Kwmar Bhadra. 


(4) Shri Amal Kumar Sarkar. 


No, 1812F.T. — 17th August 1956. — The 
Governor ig pleased to allow Shri Anubhuti 
shattacharyya, retired W.B.C.S., now temporarily 
eemployed as Assistant Commissioner of 
Ommercial Taxes, to continue to act as such 


By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


officer for a further period up to the ا818‎ August 
1956, with effect from the date following the date 
of expiry of his present term. 


No. 1813F.T. — 17th August 1956. — The 
Governor is pleased to allow the followin 
retired officers, now re-employed as Commercia 
Tax Officers, to continue to act as such officers for 
a further period up to the 3lst August 1956, with 
effect from the date following the date of expiry 
of their present term :— 

(1) Shri Rajendra Chandra Sen, retired Sub- 
Deputy Collector. 

(2) Shri Ramani Mohan Majumdar, retired 
Sub-Deputy Collector. 

(3) Shri Soroshi Mohan Das Gupta, retired 
Sub-Deputy Collector. 


(4) Shri Kalipada Nayak, retired Sub-Deputy 


Collector, ۱ 

(5) Shri S. M. A. Mirza, retired Sub-Deputy 
Collector. 

(6) Shri Monomohan Sarkar, retired Deputy 
‘Collector. 

(7) Shri Mani Bhusan Roy Choudbury, retired 
Registrar of Assurance. 

(8) Shri A. N. M. Yusuf Ali, retired Registrar . 
.of Assurance. 

(9) Shri Abul Fazal, retired Sub-Deputy 
Collector. ٦ 

(10) Shri Mohammad Masud, retired C.T.O., 
Grade 11 

(11) Shri Rathindra Chandra Bose, retired 
Deputy Collector. 

By order of the Governor, 
B. DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


EXCISE DIRECTORATE 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 26Kxc.—20th August 1956.—Shri Sukumar 
De, Inspector of Excise, is, on the expiry of his 
leave, posted to (5.1.7. (Siliguri). 


No. 27Exe.—20th August 1956.—Shri Sukumar 
Barman, Inspector of Excise, .1.B. (Siliguri), is 
transferred to Calcutta and,posted to F. L. Branch 
in the same district. 


No. 28Exc.—-20th August 1956.—Shri Niharen- 
dru Kumar Bose, Inspector of Excise, is, ) the 
expiry of his leave, posted to Cooch Behar, 


M. P. SEN, Commissioner, 


DIRECTORATE OF COMMERCIAL TAXES, 


WEST BENGAL 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 86C.T.—16th August 1956.—In pursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal Finance 


Serial Name of the dealer. Addreas and chief 
No. place of business. 
1 | 9 3 
1 Messrs. Iron Section Burnpur Wotks, Burnpur 
Canteen 


2 Steel Section Canteen .. 


8 Dr. Rai Mohanj De 
Calcutta. 


15/1۸ 1+ 


4 Pate) Saw Mill নে 
ullick Road, Calcutta 


& Messrs. Dinesh Trading 60 Burtolla Street, Onl- 
Oo. ۲ outta. 


38/1B Hem Chandra 


6 Boy & Bons ৬ 
Street, Calcutta. 


7 The Rassell Hotel va 111 Russe]] Street, 


Calcutta. 


8 3,8. Company «৯071 (17 Road, 
081: 
® Mesara, Narsinghdas 73 Cotton Street, Calcutta 
Lalchand. 


10 Messrs, Sri Ramkrishna 


16 Pageyapatt Street, 
Haatrolaya. st 15 


Calcutta, 


11) Meera, Mahabir Prasad 


Courlshanker, Hom, 


201A Warrison 
Caloutta, 


Burnpur Works, Burnpur 


226 Vivekananda Rwad, 


place of 
business. 


s 


e 


ry 


oe 


۰٠ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 


(Sales 


1906 


{Parr I 


7 
۵ٰ 


Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of newly 


reyistered 


Additional No. and date 
of registration 


certificate. 


a eye 


A8/1 مت‎ 


AS/1789A, 
۵-4-0, 


٠ 


BDI/2679A, 
4-8-56. 


BDI1/2680A, 
6-8-56, 


(114۰ 
8-8-68. 


BH/2827A, 
6-8-56, 


BH/2828A, 
6-83-66. 


BH/2820A, 
550۔7‎ 


CSI/2706A, 
8-8-56. 


051 ক, 


7-8- 


C81 /2708A, 
9-8-56. 


Goods for use in manufacture Gooda for 


or in the execution of contracts. 


6 7 


(1) Raw materiala——Spices, tea. Biri and pan. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 


(8) Conaumable stores, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
salen tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual proceaa of 
manufacture of the ৪০০৫৪ 
named below: — 

8 tea, swoetmeats, 
(tt Cooked food, 


(1) Raw materials—Tea, 
chhana, ghee. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories, 


spices, eee 


(3) Consumable stores, ۱ 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales {a claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :— 

(4) Sweeta, snacks 
(6) Tea and cooked food. 


(1) Raw materiala—Ingredients. Medicine, 
(2) Plant, 26 spare parts 
and accessories 


(3) Consumable stores, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below !~-- 

Medicines for sale. 


(1) Raw matoriala——Timber. rr 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories. 


(9) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for which 
শন ہد‎ from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below سس‎ 

۶) Packing boxes, 
(46) Plan ka. 
از‎ Woods. 
(iv) Bobbins for sale. 


কক Cotton accda, 


8181৮ 
cakes and umbrella, 


(1) Raw materials, 8)۰ 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and accessories, 


(3) Consumable stores—Chemicala, 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax ts clalined are intended 
for nee in the actual process of 
manufacturo of the goods 
named below 27৮৮ 

(4) Gold ornaments, 
(4) Silver ornaments. 


(1) Raw materials, ees 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories, 


(3) Consumable stores—Ooal. 


Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax ta claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :~—~ 

Cooked food for buarders. 


Bricks, stono chips 


Hessian, Jute twine, 


Picce-goods, 


dealers together with o description of 
the goods covered by their registration certificates 
are published for general information :— 


resale. 


bags, oil 


gravels, sand, 


soorkey, Jhamna, Me briok-bata. 


jute, 89093 


bags atid jute canvas. 


Millemade dhut! and ٤۰ 


Part I] 


2 পা 


Serial Name of the dealer. Address aud chicf 
No. place of business. 

1 2 3 

12 Mesars. Jugal Kishore 185 Netaji Subhas Rvad, 
Dutta & Sons. Calcutta. 

18 Messrs. .ا(‎ B. Chakra- 43/1 Strand Road, 
borty, Oaloutta. 

14 Sagarma! Hanumandas 


Maniabhanjang, Darjee- 
ling. 


15 Messrs. Gobindram Jhun- 


19 Pollock Street 0817 
jhupwala. cutta. 


16 Measrs. Howrah Cons- 


39 Shalimar Road, ۰ 
tructlon Co. rah. 


17 ০ [80811 .. Beldanga, Murshidabad 

18 Agatya Coal Depot .. Khagra, Murshidabad .. 

19 West Bengal Coal Com- SBeldanga, Murshidabad 
pany. 

20 FP. Kantilal Patel & Co. Nutanganj, Bankura .. 


Dwarka Prosad Benode 
Kumar. 


21 Garbota, Midnapore .. 


20 Maharaja Nanda Ku- 


Process Plant Engineers 
mar Road, South. 


Ausadhalaya, Arabinda Road, Nathati, 


28 Bhabanl 
24-Parganas. 


Dacca. 


24 Mesars. Sarkar Bros, ., 48 Canal West Road, 
Calcutta. 


5 
25 Messrs. Keroy Private 32 Latafat Hussain Lane, 
Lta. Calcutta. 


a 


race of 
01 ۰. 


> 


۰ 


(4 Naba- 
dwip, (2) 
Basirhat, 
۶ Katwa 
4) Reghu- 
na 


a 


(6) Di 


۰ 
Additional 


(6) Siliguri, 
ta. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


No, and date 


Goods for use fu manufacture 


5x69 


Goods for resale. 


of registration or in the execution of contracta. 
certificate. 
6 6 7 
CSIV/2361A, (1) Raw materials. Ready-made garments, handloorn 
8-8- 56. cloth, guernsey. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories. 
(3) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax is claimed are intended 
for use In the actual process 
of manufacture of the goods, 
namely, ready-made garmente. 
,ھ081۷2‎ rr All kinda of non-ferruus metals 
8-8-0. and metal! alloys, metal utensils. 
DJ/QOLA, و‎ Cotton and woollen cloth, 
6-8-56, umbrella, , ০০০০০ 
EL/3167A, 2 Textile goods. 
3-856. 
HW/1726A, পি Building materials, 
4-8-0 
KR/1713A, کے‎ Millmade cloth, handloom woven 
7-8-5656, cloth, powerloom cloth, hoalery 
goods, umbrella. 
ar ৪11 vba Soft coke. 
yf 56, 
KRB/1715A, ৪৪৪ Coal and coke. 
7-8-5868. 
MN برا‎ er Biri tobacco and biri leaves. 
7-8-56. 
MN/1306A, baer ' Kirana and galla [other than 
0-8-56, those declared notified commo- 
dities under Weat 0801 (Sales 
Tax) Act, 1064 cluding 
cocoanut 011 and tobacco. 
PG/18724, (1) Raw materials. om one 
81-0۰ (2) Plant chi 71 
ant, machinery, spare par 
and acccesories. 
(3) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for which 
” exemption from payment ۴۶ 
sales is claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named : 
below -ے۔‎ 
| Plant and machineries for 
chemical, pharmaceutical and 
mineral industries. 
PG/118B, (1) Raw materials. 4 oh 
817-6. 
(2) Plant, machinery, spare parts 
and 6. 
(3) Consumable stores. 
Provided that all goods for which 
"و‎ পে from payment of 
salcs tax is clatmed are intended 
for uso in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods named 
below ২. 
Ayurvedic medicine. 
er Spices, ocoooanut oll, vegetable 
আপ products, sugar, rice, pulses, 
gur, flour, atta, suji and soda, 
TL /2019A, (1) Raw materials. 7 
60-৮-০০, 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare parte 
and accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores, viz., brass 
rods, sheeta, aluminium, hard- 
ware, fron, lead, tin, tools, glass, 
marble, polishing and plating 
requisites, chemicals, 


Provided that all gooda for which 
exemption from payment of 
sales tax (5 claimed are intended 
for use in the actual process of 
চির of the goods named 

ow سئ‎ 


Solentific balances and weights. 


3210 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


[Varr ॥ 


No. 860.T.—16th August 1956.—In 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Benga 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
the following names and addresses of registered 
dealers whose registrations under the Act were 


Serlal Name of dealer. 
No, 


1 2 


} Motilall Ramkumar 


2 ہج‎ Sahitya Kutir Pri- 21 Jhamapukur’ Lane, . 
রর Calcutta. 


vate. 


3 (8) J.N. Banerjee Pri- 8 Badurbagan 
vate. Ltd. 0 


for 
J,N. Banerjee Ltd. 


Addreasand chief placeof Ad 
business. p 


8 


9 Upper Chitpore Road, 
Calcutta. 


Street, 
alcutta. 


4 Standard Chemicaland ] Jaharlal Dutta Lane, 


Pharmaceutical Works. 


5 Bade) Ram Saw 


6 (8) Pastur 
tories Private Ltd. 
for 


Pastur Laboratories, 
Ltd. 


Labore- 2 Cornwallin 
Calcutta. 


Ultadanga, 08160 065. 


.. 77 Kailash Bose Street, 
Calcutta. 


8৮9৮ 


7 Messrs. Sree Chandi 143 Cotton Street, Cal- 
Stores. 


(8) Messrs. M 


f. P. 
(India) Private Ltd. 


Mesers. M. P. (India) 
Ltd. 


cutta. 


84۸ Nalini Sett Road, 
Calcutta. 


ae 


e@¢ 


কক 


শক শী 


0 
Finance 


ditional No. and date of 
lace of 
business. 


registration 
certificate. 


5 


BDI/628A, 
29-09-41. 


BDI/2668A, 
23-6-56. 


BDI/464A, 
28-9-41, 


BDI/340A 
27-9-41, 


BDI/1070A, 
26-6-44. 


BDI/1502A, 
12-93-49. 


سی یا BDII‏ 
20-8-۰ 


BDI/1600A, 
_ Bhe 3-47, 


€ + 


Goods for use in manufacture 


or in the execution of 
contracts. 


0 


(৪) (1) Raw materiala—W heat 


gram and bajra. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts and accessories. 


(3) Consumablo stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax is 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the goods 
named below :-— 


Atta for sale 


or 

Wheat, 80, and bajra and 
A, B, © certified by the 
purchasing dealer to 0৫ 
required for میں‎ in any 
process in the manufacture 
of atta for sale. 


(A) (1) Raw mnaterials— 
Paper, Ink and other raw 
materials required 101 
printing. 


(2) Plant, machinery, apare 
arts and accessories— 
rinting machineries, elec- 

tric motors for printing 
machinery, 


(3) Consumable stores. 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax ھا‎ 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process 
of manufacture of the goods 
named below سہ:‎ 


9 Books. 

ti) ۲۱6۰ 

Magazines.‏ پل 

tr) Printed matters for 
sale. 


(8) (1) Raw materlala—Acid 
citric, acid acetic, glacial, 
potas carb, silver bullion. 


(2) Plant, machinery, spare 
parts and accessories. 


(3) Consumable stores, 


Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax Is 
claimed are intended for 
usé in the actual process 
of manufacture of the goods 
named below سس:‎ 


(i) Chemicals. 

(ts) Pharmaceuticals. 

(1$ 02 goods for 
sale. 


for 

Acid citric, acid acetic, glacial, 
potas carb and A, ,ہا‎ 0 
certified by the purchasing 
dealer to be required for 
use in any process in tho 
manufacture of chemicals, 
pharmaceutical and medical 
goods for sale, 


Goods for resale. 


eens 


ovea 


eee 


rae (A) Aluminium, 0118 


eee 


aap 


ee@we 


(A) Artificial 81118 cloth 


amended with effect from the date noted apainst 
each of them and in respect of the particulars 
appearing in the different columns in the manner 
indicated against such particulars are published 
for general information :— ۱ 


Date of 
amend- 
ment. 


8 


8-8-56, 


6-8-56, 


6-0-0. 


7-8-56. 


7-8-56. 


0.8.04 . 


7-8 6৪, 


7৮086, 


Dart TY] 


Merial Name of tho dealer. 


No, 


9 


il 


18 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


21 


22 


26 


27 


28 


2 


1851111113۲۸۲۵۸۲ 5101108 ( 


Messrs, 8+٣۷ 
1 ۰ 


(8) 1)118001)81819  Bro- 
thers Private Ltd. 


jor 
Dhandhania Brothers, 
Ltd ٠ 


(8 The Vivekananda 
tores and Ageucy 
০8 چس‎ 


Tho “Wiewkenanda 
778 aud 71 


٠ 


Mongaldas Dwarkadas 


Messrs. Chaturbhujdas 
Karnani & Co. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


and chief place of Additional‏ من 
lave of‏ ]سنا 
usiness.‏ 


8 


Stationbazar, 


Katwa, 
Burdwan. 


65 Cotton Strevt, Cal- 
cutta. - 


186 Canning Strect, Cal- 
outta, 


116 Canning Street, Cal- 
cutta, 


™, 


12 Portuguese Church 
Street, Calcutta. 


118B Monohardas‏ پا 
atra, Calcutta,‏ 


for 
6 Cross Street, Calcutta. 


Mesara. Malchand Surana ue Monohardas Street, 


(8) Messrs. Sriniwas 
Jeowanl 


Meaars. 
lal. 
Calcutta Cloth Store 


Ramjilal Rathi 7 


Ramnarayan Sitaram 


Ram Chandra Giridhari- 
Yall. 


Ramtapeswarram 
Padamdeoprosad. 


Pannalall 


Jagdish 
Prosad. 


9) Messrs. The Milling 
Trading Co. (Private) 


4 কট 


for 
Measure. ane 


Milling 
Trading O 


Meuars. Phoenix 
Trading Co. 


(S) Mesars. Associated 
British Machine 
Tool Makere (10019) 


“y 


or 

Meas Associated 
Dritish Machine Tool 
Makers Ltd. 


Jagannath Bros. 7 
(8) Indoria Timber 
Works 
for 
N. .ا‎ Sarma & Sons. 


(8) P. C, Ghosh & Co. 
or 
P. 0, Ghoah. 


gat 
riniwas Bhowri- 


Calcutta, 


157 NetajiSubhas Road, 
Calcutta. 
Siliguri দু 
Bijonbari 2 
Bijonbari ae 
Darjeeling 7 
Bukhiapokhri ৮ 
[08116911174 ae 


(8191 Brabourne Road, 


৮৮: 
1১784 ای ان‎ fine 

Calcutta, 
57 Radhabazar Street, 


008. 


? 


6 Old Post Office Strect, 
Calcutta. 


2 Shay Road, ر88۶‎ 
Howrah 


QOodlabari, P. O. Manna- 
bari, Jalpaiguri. 


P. O. Lataguri, Jalpaiguri 


ذف 


ঠ ae 


3271 
Nu, and date of Goods for use In manufacture Goods for resale, Date of 
registration or in the execution of amend- 
certificate. contracts, ment 
5 6 7 8 
BN |02. (D) Old neal. ৮৬৬৬ 6-06 
17-7-47. 
(A) (1) Raw materials. 
(2) Plant, machinery,, spare 
parts and 80088800168. 
(8) Consumable stores, 
Provided that all goods for 
which exemption from 
payment of sales tax 8 
claimed are intended for 
use in the actual proceas 
of manufacture of the 
goods named below :— 
Brass and belimetal wares. 
C81/2600A, কর ৫৪ (A) Umbrella and umbrella 7-8-56, 
27-8-6۰ parts, ن۱۲ ۷ضم ا 3ء‎ 
thread and electrical goods. 
OSIII/1992A4, ‘ as 8-6, 
14-8-01, 
oe (D) Medicine $-8-56 
CSIII/1573A, ২5 (A) 0981 5100 80000 bags 4-8-6۰ 
20-3-9. 
CSTV /1575A, ew % 3-8-6566. 
20-12-48, 
بی تی‎ ia (A) Umbrella ribs 6-0۰. 
ق8‎ 2-45. 
081۷/6۸, و+ەامهہ‎ $ ৪৩৪ 0-0. 
2-9-52. 
DJ /498A, وو‎ (A) Leather suitcases, tar- 4-8-66. 
bets paulin, rubber goods, hold- 
alls, water-proofe, mos- 
quito neta umbrella, 
hosiery g ‘ woollen 
goods. 
DJ /665A, নিলা (A) Spices, groundnut, 1807 4-8-56 
eet tern , battery, paper, bir, 
.الا نا8‎ 
449A, Saree (A) Lanterns, umbrella, 6-8-56, 
পা cotton blankets, cotton 
thread and buttons. 
mee es (A) Bubber goods, water 7-8-6, 
22-9- proots, wool and woollen 
goods, এপ buttons, 
umbre 
DI /814, eee (A) Dry oo tea, birl, pa 78-66. 
26-9-41, battery, lozenges, ‘toffees, 
ropes. 
7 (A) Window glasa panes, 7-8-56. 
9۷ সন: سےا‎ ۲ lain 
. ©. sheeta, .. 808 
straw boarda hard 
boards, plywood, D. D. T. 
jae galvanised. wire, 
imber, coaltar, water 
ples and fittings, coir 
fibre 
EL/2688A, anee supe 8-4-6 
19-1-53. 
7 181 57 A, 2 (A) Steel strapping and strip 6-6-6, 
12-7-86 
EL 5854. oe ৬৪ $& 7-8-66, 
2 9-41, 
দ্যান (8) Hemp, kapok, jute, 6-8-56, 
১8 ie یں سن‎ thread, hesaian, 
now gunny bags. 
1557 sear ret 6-8۰ 
16-1. 
۲/18184. کے‎ (A) Timber or (88৪6, 
8-38-68. 


3272 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 
Serial Name ofthe dealor, | Address and chief place | 
No. of business. place of of reglatra- 
business. tion certificate. 
1 2 8 4 6 
29 Everest Engineering Co. Banarhat, Jalpaiguri .. ٤ سی واج‎ 
80 Ganesh 138٤8 Moinagurl, Jalpaiguri. «s 7157 
$1 Radiant Traders .. Jalpaiguri * ue | otal! (SE RAR, 
mone J P/i354A, 
51৫ floor, 19-8-4. 
Calcutta-1, 
82 (8) Surana Brothera Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri JP/1442A, 
or 6-12-55 / 
Prithira) Surana. 1-8-51, 
\ 
83 (8) Probodh Kumar Bangaljhi, Chapra, Nadia ٠ KR/470A, 
Tarafdar 8-4-46, 
or 
Nikhil Koonar Tarafdar 
34 Ambika Prosad Singh | Haliaahar, 24 Parganas ন্‌ پا‎ 
$5 Mossers, A. Stock & Co. (8) 1/2 Taratola Road, - 1770/17014, 
Calcutta-27, 12-8-64. 
or 
88 G para 20۵, 
Dhalipara, Calcutta-84. 
86 Mesars. Parbati Charan 52 রা Bohala, (8) 40110 (8) PG/117B, 
Kumar & Oo. Calcutta-34 rphanganj or 
arket, PG/1807A, 
-Kidderpore, 1-38-49. 
- Calcutta-23. 
87 (8) Mosars., Bagla 6A Jorabagan Street, 27 چیا نج‎ 
سا‎ ing Oo. Private Calcutta. 4-7-62, 
Bagla Trading Oo., Ltd. 
$8 Prodyot Kumar Nandy Sahagunge, Hooghly .. a সা 
39 89818 Government 12/B Lindsay Street, -۰ TL/2008A, 
"0. 7১, Handiorafts., Calcutta. 15-5-66. 
40 (8) Messrs. Saxby & 17 Corvent Road, Cal- ae TL/187A, 
Farmor (India) Pri- cutta. 28-0-۰. 
86ہ‎ 7 
Mosaras. 0 & Fare 
mer (India) Ltd. 
41 (8) M 


Ezplanatory notes.—Regarding 


68818, Wachel 
لان‎ & Bons Private 


নিন ১০ Molla 
کی‎ Sons ىآ‎ 


(8) 8 1(5: ۲۸۲۰ھ‎ ٣م((۸‎ Street, 
Calcutta 


Additional Noanddate Goods for use in manufacture 


(8) Calcutta 17721. 
(1) for 12-11-47. 


for Majerhat 
8 and 10 Dharamtolla (1). 
Hiroe, Calcutta. 
the amend- 


ments made, the following code letters have been 
used to indicate the manner in which the parti- 


1956 


খল সর 


০৬০ > ০০ পি চি জি 


¢ 


Goods for rosale. 
or in the oxecution of 001). 
tracts. 


(A) Hardware 


(A) Umbrella and ready- 
made gurments. 


ওর 48‏ ه +دھ 


(A) Jute twine, cocoanut 
twine, badam oll], cocoa 
‘ nut ofl, mahua oll, linseed 
oll, biri, iron goods coal- 
tar, stationery gooda, old 
per, dyes, caustic soda, 

5 ail cate, spices. 


a@eea 


(A) Coal, steel, wood and 
A, B certified. by the pur- 
chasing dealer to be re- 
quired for use in any pro- 
০688 in the manufacture of 
brick and soorkey for sale. 


২৪৯৭ verte 


وفقابجھ روف 


(A) Cement -‏ ہو 
(A) oe রা tissue‏ ےی" 
paper, board, card-‏ 
board porns and gunuy‏ 
cloths.‏ 
(A) Raw materials, plant, কনার‏ 
machinery, apare parts‏ 
and accessories, con-‏ 
sumable stores, viz., ghee,‏ 
tea.‏ 
Provided that all goods‏ 
for which exemption‏ 


from payment of sales tax 
is claimed are intended for 
use in the actual process of 
manufacture of the guods 
named below :-< 


Foodstuff for canteen. 

(8) Raw materials, plant, (D) Mobil, grease, distilled 
machinery, spare parts water, petrol and other 
and accessories, consum- general merchandise as 
able stores, viz., mattresa, and when required and 
nets, textiles, cane, gold certified by the purchasing 
and silver. dealer to be roquired for 

resale, 

Provided that all goods 
for which exemption 
from payment of 58188 


tax is claimed are intended 
for 086 in the actual pro- 
08988 of manufacture of the 
goods named below:-— 
Garmonts, beddin ng 
sites, waterproo coats, 
musical goods, frigi- 
datresa, framed pictures, 
looking glass and orna- 


requi- 


nents 
Mattress, ace. cane, gold 
and silver and = any 
other raw materials, 
plant, machinery, spare 
parts, accessories and 
consumable . ptoros, 
buildin or plumbing 
لا سا‎ or fixtures, 
required for construc: 
tion, fitting out or 
repair of any building 
certified by the pur. 
chasing dealer 


reguired for use in any 
eto in the manufac- 
re of garments, bod- 
eau requisites waters 
Toor coats, frl idalres, 
ramed pictures, Blookin 
81848, medicines an 
ornaments for 6۰ 


(A) means “Add’’. 
(1) means “Delete’’. 
(S) means “Substitute”, 


[Parr I 


Date of 
amond- 
mont. 


8 
6-0۰ 
6-8. 66, 


7-8-56, 


0-6. 


7-80 


28-7-56. 


81-7-0. 


17-6 


6-8-56, 


5-0. 


4-8-56, 


7-856, 


9-8-56. 


culars of a registration have been amended :— 


Part. 11 


a গাগা তি এ+পাা০স্পটরা এ 


1117) CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 | 8073 


چس 


® 
No. 870.T.—16th August 1956.—In pursuance 
of the provisions of section 9 of the Bengal 
Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 
1941), the following uames and addresses of 
registered dealers together with a description of 


the goods covered by their registration certificate- 


whose registrations under the Act were cancelled 
with effect from the date noted against each of 
them are published for general information :—. 


90118] Name of the dealor. Address and chief place Additional No. and date Goods for the use in manu- Goods for resale. Date of 
No. of business. lace of of registration facture or in the execution of cancel- 
usiness. certificate. contracts, lation. 
1 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 
1 Messrs. Gambhirmall 41 Shibtolla 80۲٥) BDI1/2634A, ৮24 [109161%, piece-goods, yarn, ۲-80 
Mahabirprasad. Calcutta, 10-8-52, ich বি hardware. 
2 8. Inderchand 114/1 Cotton Street, a BDII/2627A, ৪৫ Cloth “x وا‎ 7-8-0 
Omprakash. alcutta. 10-7. 
3 Mears. |. § $$Howrah 11 Sri Satya Narayan HW/1603A, Cement 4 এ, 4-8-06 
Cement Supply Co. Templo Road, Banda- 14-8-55. ۱ 
ghat, Salkia, Howrah. | 
4 Sohan Singh Jogindra Jalpaiguri JP/18389A, Toa, gunny bag “ee 00۔8۔7‎ 
Pal. 16-4-64, 
6 India Gunny Export 21A Canning Street, LR/2193A, জার Juto, jute products, gold, 7-8-56, 
0০, Ltd. Calcutta. 18-12-61. silver, electrical goods, 
hardware, mill stores. 
6 350۷۵۳. Hiralal Ghoso 285 Garden Reach Road, PG/72A, Building matertala, corrugated —§ 2-68-58 
Gardon}Reach, 24-Par- 21-01۰. plain sheet, wood planks, 


@anas, 


\Waplanatory note.—Regarding “goods for use in 
manufacture or in the execution of contracts’’ 
the following code letters have been used to 
indicate the meanings noted against each :— 

(A) Other raw materials. 


hardware, asphaltum, stone, 
rease, oll, motor parts, 
yres and tubes, palate. 


(13) Plant, machinery, spare parts, accessories 
and consumable stores. ৃ 

(0) Building or plumbing materials or fixtures 
required for construction, fitting out or 
repair of any building. 


@ সস 


No. 88C.T.—16th August 1956.—In pursuance 
of the provisions of sub-rule (8) of rule 27A of the 
Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1941, it is notified for 
generul information that the following declaration 
forms have been reported to be lost, destroyed or 
stolen from the custody of the dealers to whom 
these declaration forms were issued and are invalid 
for the purpose of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1941, and Bengal Sales Tax Rules :— 


Serial No. of the declaration Name, address and registration 
forma reported to be lost, certificate number of the re- 


destroyed or stolen. gistered dealer to whom issued 
and from whom lost, destroyed 
or stolen. 
(1) (2) 


1. A/5-656126 to A/5-656175 Messrs, National Hosiery Mills, 
132 Old Chinabazar Street, 
Calcutta. CS, 11112204. 


2. ۸/1-4 .. Messrs. Caloutta Wire Works, 
34 Strand Road, Caloutta. 
OS. ۰ 


A. ©. ROY, Commissioner. 


LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT 


Local Self-Government 
be NOTIFICATIONS. ۱ 
No. 6961/M.3R-27/56.—9th August 1956.—TIn 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) 
of section 312 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 
(Bengal Act XV of 1982), the Governor is’ pleased 
to: declare that Schedule V1 of that Act shall he 


in force in the Dainhut Municipality in the 0087 


niet of Burdwan, 
t 


No! 6962 {M.3R-27 /56.—Oth August 1986,--In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (~) 
of section 312 of the Beugal Municipal Act, 1932 
(Bengal Act XV of 1932), the Governor 8 pleased 
to extend the provisions of sections 315, 0717 to 
827 and 829 of the said Act to the Dainhat Muni- 
Cipality in the district of Burdwan. 


7 
No, 70011) 81.013915১.--116) August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by section 122 of 
the Bengal Municipal Act, 1982 (Bengal Act XV 
of 1932), the Governor 18 pleased to make the 
following amendment in the rules published with — 
notification No. 6499M., dated the 218 November 
1935, as subsequently amended :— 


Amendment 


In rule 128 of the suid rules, after the first 
proviso, insert. the following proviso, namely سے‎ 


“Trovided further that no such sanction as 19. 
yeferred to in this rule shall be necessary 
in the case of granting leave to the 
sweepers, methors or mazdoors of the con- 
servancy service of a municipality in accord- - 
ance with the rules framed by the Com- 
missioners of the municipality in this 


behalf.” 


No. 7189/M.1M-83/56.—16th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (2) 
of section 58 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 
(Bengal Act XV of 1932), read with the first pro- 
viso to section 16 of the said Act, the Governor 
is pleased to appoint Shri Narayan Prosad Banerjee 
to be a Commissioner of the Kharagpur Municipa- 
lity in the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. P. 
K. Jana. 


No, 7142) M.1T-15/56.—16th August 1956.—In 
exercise of the power conferred by the 75417101577 
tion to aub-section (1) of section 167 of the 
Calcutta Municipal] Act, 1951 (West Bengal Act 
XXXIII of 1951), the Governor is pleased to 
declare the land and buildinga at the premises 
mentioned in the schedule below, as land and 
buildings used by the .Jitendra Narayan Ray 
Sishu Seva Bhawan, solely for the purpose of 
medical relief: 


The Schedule 


রত লি No. 58/18, Raja Dinendra Street, 
৮1000, 


3274 7 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 


[Parr I 


০০ সস 230১১৯৯৯৯৯৯ ৯ 


CORRIGENDUM | 


No. 7251/M.1M-121/55.—21st August 1956.— 
In notifivation No. 4313/M.1M-121/65, dated the 
Lith May 1956, published at page 2001 of Part I 
of the Culcutta Gazette of the 8186 May 1956, for 
the words ‘‘Shri Biva Banerjee’ read “Shrimati 
Biva Banerjee”. 


No. 7278/L.8.-G.2E-77 /56.—22nd August 1956. 
—In partial modification of Government notifica- 
tion No. 77491.8.-G.2E-86/55, dated the 7th 
September 1955, published at pege 3589 of Part 1 
of the Calcutta Gazette, dated the 15th Septem- 
ber 1955, the Governor is pleased to reduce the 
period of probation of Shr 3, K. Chakraborty, 
Additional Assistant Secretary to the Government 
of West Bengal in the Local Self-Government 
Department, to six months and to confirm him 
in the said post with effect from the Ist August 
1956. ۱ 

By order of the Governor, 


N. M. BARDHAN, Jt. Secy. 


পপ পপ পা পপ 


DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 
Medica. 
NOTIFICATIONS. 


No. Med]. /6023/D.H.S./18-98/56.—7th August 
1956.—The Governor مم‎ pleased to grant Shri 
Sekhar Kumar Chatterjee, B.Sc., Secretary, Lady 
Dufferin Victoria Hospital, Calcutta, earned leave 
for the period from the llth January 1956 to the 
28th January 1956 under rule 167(i1) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules (Part I), 


2, This cancels this department notification 
No. Med). /2815/Admn./1S-118/55(S8), dated 11th 
April 1956, 


No. Medl. 6096 / D.H.S. /5A-28 /55.—1 1th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to post 
Dr. Anil Kumar Ghosh, M.B., D.6.M.S. (Cal.), 
of the West Bengal Medical and Health Service, 
now employed as Assistant Surgeon, Sadar 
Hospital, Berhampore, temporarily until further 
orders on supernumerary duty at the General 
Hospital, Jalpaiguri, with effect from the date on 
which he joins the hospital. 


No. Medl. 6097 /D.H.S. /5A-28 /55.—-11 th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Akshoy Kumar Roy, M.B., D.O.M.S. (Cal.), 
of the West Bengal Medical and Health Service, 
now employed as Resident Surgeon,” Kye  Intir- 
mary, Medical College Hospitals, Caleutta, 
temporarily to act until further orders as Assistant 
Surgeon, Sadar Hospital, Berhampore, with effect 
from the date on ا‎ he joins the post, 6ء‎ 
Dr. Anil Kumar Ghosh. 


No. Med]. 6098 /D.H.S./5A-28 /55.—1ith 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appovnt 
Dr. Madhu Sudan Palit, B.Se., M.B., of the West 
Bengal Medieal and Health Service, now employ- 
ed as Registrar and Refraction Assistant, ۵6٥ 
Infirmary, Medical College Hospitals, Calcutta, 
temporarily to act er further orders 98 
Resident Surgeon, Eye Infirmary, in the same 
institution with effect from the date on which ا‎ 
takes over charge of the post, vice Dr. Akshoy 
Kumar Roy, 


No. 81০৫1. 6099 / DHS. /5A-28/55.—-1 ith 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased ‘to eppoint 
Dr. Nagendra Nath Chanda, M.B., of the West 
Rengal Medical and Health Service, now employ- 
ed as Ist House Surgeon, Eye Infirmary, Medical 
College Hospitals, Caleutta, temporarily to act 
until further orders as Registra® and Refraction 
Assistant, Eye Infirmary, in the same 7 
with effect from the date on which he takes over 
charge of the post, mice Dr. Mudhu Sudan Palit. 


: ৃ 

No. Medl. G100/ DHS /5A-28/55.— 116 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Samir Kumar Biswas, M.B.B.S8., D.O.M.S. 
(Cal.), of the West Bengal Medical and Health 
Service, now st a ha as 2nd [louse Surgeon, Kye 
Infirmary, Medical College Hospitals, Calcutta, 
temporarily to act until further orders as Ist House 
Surgeon, Kye Infirmary, in the same institution 
with effect from the date on which he takes over 
charge of the post, wice Dr. Nagendra Nath Chanda, 


No. ۸۰ 6101 /D.H.S. /5A-28/55.—11 th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Barindra Kumar De, M.B.B.S., of the ৬৬৪৪1 
Bengal Medical and Health Service, now posted 
on supernumerary duty at the Medical College 
Hospitals, Calcutta, temporarily to act until 
further orders as 2nd House Surgeon, Eye ۰ 
mary, صا‎ the same institution with effect from 
the date on which he takes over charge of the 
post, vice Dr. Samir Kumar Biswas. 


No. Medl. 6102/ D.TI.S. /5A-28/55.—11 th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Amiya Mohan Chakravorty, M.H., of the West 
Bengal Medical and Health Service, now employ- 
as Teacher of Medical Jurisprudence, 
Ronaldshay Medical School, Burdwan, tempo- 
rarily to act until further orders as 1209706100৮ 
Officer, Medical College Hospitals, Calcutta, wit 
effect from the date on which he joins the post. 


No. Medl. 6103/D.H.S. নি 1110) 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Sasadhar Biswas, M.B., of the West Bengal 
Medical and Health Service, now employed as 
Assistant Profeasor of Anatomy, Medical College, 
Caleutta, temporarily to act until further orders 
as Teacher of Medical Jurisprudence, Ronaldshay 
Medical School, Burdwan with effect from the 
date on which he joins the post, vice Dr. 
Mohan Chakravorty. 


No. Medl. 6104/D.H.S. /5A-28/55.— 11th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint 
Dr. Saral Kumar Bagchi, MBAS. of the West 
Bengal Medical and Jlealth Service, now employ- 
ed as Demonstrator of Anatomy, Medical College, 
Calcutta, temporarily to act until further orders 
as Assistant Professor of Anatomy in the same 
institution with effect from the date on which he 
takes over charge of the post, wice Dr. Sasadhur 
Biswas, i 


Amiya 


No. Medl. 6106/D.H.S./1S-91 /56.---11th 
August 1956.—The Governor was pleased to 8ء‎ 
Dr. 320 Smriti Kana Roy of the ام۸۷‎ 
Kengal Medical and Health Service, Resident 
Medical Officer, Lady Dufferin Victoria Hospital; 
Caleutta, maternity leave for the period from 
28th May 1956 to 19th July 1956 under note [ to 
rule 197 of the West Bengal Service Rules, 
Part 1. 


No. Medl. 6182/D.H.S. /18-47/56.—14th August 
1956.—The (Governor is pleased to grant Dr. 8. ا‎ 
Banerjee of the West Bengal Medical and Health 
Service, now employed as Assistant Professor of 
Pathology, Medical College, Calcutta, leave with 
effect from Ist September 1956 or from any subse- 
quent date from which the leave is availed of, as _ 
follows :— 

(1) Earned leave for sixty days under rule 
1G7(ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules 
(Part J) 


(2) Study leave for one yeur. 


No, Medl. 6192/D.H.S. /1H-43/455.—l4th August 
1956.—The Governor was pleased to confirm Shri. 
H. P. Acharya, M.A. (Com.), of the West Bengal 
General Service, now employed as Secretary, 
Medical College, Calcutta, in the post of Secretary, , 
Medical College Hospitals, Calcutta, with effect 
from the 10th May 1955, 


Ry order of the (Fovernor, | 
N. ©. KAR, Dy. ٣۷۰ 


Part 1] 


ren কাজ পরার ক CARTAN ET! ৪5৯ Met Tt ab UE GES ٹر‎ Vcr ہد جہن‎ ۷ ও Se Nea مم بت‎ সি শি উপ শিক ০ পি সি কী এস জট ও শাক سس‎ 2 
সেক ভিত ০ NE SES AS কা পা জিত 1 
টপ ভা ক, আবি সা রি ও. অন পা) পি পা SO পাপ জা, ক জাপা oo 


Public Health 


NOTIFICATIONS 3 


No. P.H./2924/1M-68 বুদ August 1956.— 
The Governor is pleased to re-employ Dr. D. ٠۰ 
Das, M.B., D.P.H., Assistant Director of Health 
Services (Leprosy) in the West Bengal Higher 
Medical and Health Service (Grade IT) after 
superannuation, in the same post as now held by 
him for a period of one year with effect from the 
Ist September 1956. 


No. P.H./2930/1M-47/55.—10th August 1966. 
—The Governor is pleased to appoint Dr. Dayama 
Manna, M.B.B.S., son of Shri Surendra Nat 
Manna, temporarily to act until further orders as 
a Medical Officer, Malaria Control Scheme under 
the National Malaria Control Programme, West 
Lengal, with effect from the date on which he 
takes over charge and to.post him to the Malaria 
Control] Unit with headquarters at Hooghly vice 
Dr. P, K. Sen transferred, 


2. This cancels the aopointment of Dr. Barid 
Baran Chatterjee to the above post made under 
notification No, P.H./2555/1M-47/55, dated the 
Lith July 1956. | 
\ No. PH /2943/2h-16/66.—18th August 1956.— 
The Governor was pleased to transfer Shri Subodh 
Chandra Kar, .ظا‎ “Nemporary Assistant 
Engineer, Irrigation (Community Development 
Project) under the Directorate of Health Services 
(Public Tlealth Engineering), West Bengal, to 
Fulia in the district of Nadia with effect from 
6th January 1956 until further orders, in connec- 
tion with the execution of irrigation schemes in 
the Fulia Development Block. 


No. P.H. 2973/31-27/56.—16th August 1956. 
—The Governor is pleased to cancel this depart- 
ment notification No. P.H. 4871/31.-27/55Pt., 
dated the 13th October 1955, granting Dr. Santosh 
Kumar Roy Chowdhury, M.B., D.P.H. -Subdivi- 
sional Health Officer, Asansol, earned leave for the 
period from the 12th October 1955 or any subse- 
quent date from which the leave was avuiled of up 
to the 20th October 1955. 


No. P.H.. 2978/8L-25/66,—16th August 1956. 
—The Governor was pleased to grant Dr. (Miss) 
Shibani Sarkar, M.B., D.M.C.W., Medical Ins- 
pectress, Schoo] Hygiene, under the J)irectorate of 
Health Services, West Bengal, earned Jeave for 
twenty-one days with effect from the 28th May 
1956 or from any subsequent date from which the 
leave was availed of under rule 167(1i) of the West 
Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 
N. C. KAR, Dy. Seoy. 


لم 


DEPARTMENT OF WORKS AND BUILDINGS 


Establishment 
NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 42.—-20th August = 1956.-—Shri_ Sushil 
Kumar Choudhury, Mlectrical Assistant Mngineer 
and Technical Assistant to the Superintendme 
Knyineer, Mlectrical Circle, ts transferred, in the 
interest of public service, from the office of the 
Superintending Lngineer, Wlectrical Circle, and 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


8272 


posted to the charge of the Chinsurah Mlectrical 
Subdivision under the Western Electrical Division 
of the 15190170508] Circle, until further orders, 


No. 63.—20th August 1956.—Shri Samarendra 
Kumar Dawn, Electrical Assistant 17108111667) is 
transferred, in the interest of public service, 
from the Chinsurah Electrical Subdivision under 
the Western Electrical Division of the Electrical! 
Circle and posted to the office of the Superintend- 
ing Mngineer, Electrical Circle, as his Technical 
Assistant, until further orders. 


Resignation 


No. 54.—21st August 1956.—The Governor is 
pleased to accept the resignation tendered by 
Shri 1). N. Mukherjee, temporary Assistant 
Engineer af this department, with effect from the 


afternoon of April 23, 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
B. 1, SINHA, Jt. Secy. 


IRRIGATION AND WATERWAYS 
DEPARTMENT 


ORDERS 


No. 86.—l1th Augus# 1956.—The services of 
Shu K. ৪. Banerji, now acting as Agronomist, 
Mayurakshi Project, are replaced at the disposal 
of the Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Forests 
Tepartment of this Government. 


_ No. 87.—I11th August 1956.—Shri Sunil Kanti 
Gupta, an officer of the West Bengal Subordinate 
Agriculture Service, Class I, whose _ ser- 
vices have heen placed at the  dia- 
posal of this department by the Director 
of Agriculture, West Bengal, is appointed to act 
as Agronomist, Mayurakshi Project, with head- 
quarters at Suri ےہ‎ Shri Krishna Sankar 
Banerji, whose services are being replaced at the 
se of the Agriculture, Animal Husbandry 
and l‘orests Department. 


By order of the Governor, 
K. SEN, ৪৫৫. 


DIRECTORATE OF IRRIGATION 
AND WATERWAYS 


NOTIFICATIONS 
No. YOC.I.E.--18th July 1956.—Shri .حم‎ &. 


Chatterjee, temporary Assistant Engineer-Sub- 
divisional Officer, Investigation Subdivision 
No. VI, under the Investigation Division No, ITI, 
is appointed to hold additional charge of the 
Investigation Subdivision No. V, under the said 
Division, until further orders, vtce Shri S. K. 
Ghose, temporary Assistant Engineer, resigned. 


No. 71C.1.E.—Ist August 1956.—Shri S. K. 
Roy, temporary Assistant Engineer attached to 
Jalpaiguri Construction Division, was transferred, 
in the interest of public service, and posted to hold 


charge of the Jalpaiguri Construction Subdivision 


No. جو‎ the said Division until further orders 
vice Shri Tf. N. Batabyal, temporary Assistant 
Engineer-Subdivisional Officer, proceeded on leave. 


2? This cancels this office 


No. 400.1... dated 16th May 1956. 


notification 


3276 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr 1 


পপ‏ ج٠۲‏ ہد 


No, 720.L.E.—7th August 1956.—Shri [(. B. 
Kundu, temporary Assistant Engineer-Sub- 
divisional Officer, Jalpaiguri Mechanical Sub- 
division, is granted earned leave for two month, 
with effect from the date on which he goes on leave 
under rule 167(ii) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I, read with rule 226(1)(3), ibid. 


No. 73C.L.E.—138th August 1956.—Shri Bipul 
Kumar Bardhan Roy, temporary Assistant 
Engineer, Technical Assistant to the Superin- 
tending Engineer, Eastern Circle, 1s transferred in 
the interest of the public service and posted to hold 
charge of the Investigation Subdivision No. TV 
of the Investigation Division No. I, until further 
orders, vice Shri Bhupati Nath Chatterjee, tempo- 
rary Assistant Engineer, transferred. 


‘No. 74C.1.E.—13th August 1956.—Shri Bhupati 
Nath Chatterjee, temporary Assistant Engineer- 
Subdivisional Officer, Investigation Subdivision 
No. IV of the Investigation Division No. J, is 
transferred in the interest of the public service and 
posted to hold charge of the Dredger Subdivisions 
Nos. 1 and 11 of the Canals Division, until further 
orders. 


I. B. DE, Chief Engineer. 


LABOUR DEPARTMENT 


NOTIFICATIONS | 


No, 3901 Lab. /G/2W-34/55.—6th 08৯৭ 6۰ 
-—-In exercise of the power conferred by section 6, 
read with section 9 of the Minimum Wages Act, 
1948 (X1 of 1948), the Governor is pleased to 
appoint an Advisory Committce 19 enquire into 
the conditions prevailing in employment on road 
construction or in building operations لا‎ the 
State of West Bengal and to advise the State (iov- 
ernment in making revision of the minimum 
rates of wages fixed in respect of such employ- 
ment under the said Act, consisting of the follow- 
ing persons, namely :— 


independent Members 
(1) Shri G. Palit, District: Judge (Retired), 
who is hereby ayjspointed to be the Chair- 
man. 
(2) Shri Jagannath Majumdar, 13,15১ M.L.A. 
(3) Shri Hridoy Bhusan Chakravarty, 81150 


Members representing employers 

(4) Shri Jamini Kumar Banerjee, Superintend- 
ing Engincer, Presidency Circle, Works 
and Buildings Department, Government 
of West Bengel. 

(5, Shri T. P, Marik of the Indian Kngineer- 
ing Association, 

(6) Shri K. N. Arora of the Engineering 
Association of Tndia. 


Members representing employees 
(1) Shri Kah Mukherjee, M.L.A., of 0 
Bengal Provincial National Trade Union 
Congress. 
(8) Shri Abdool Jabbar of the Bengal Pro- 
ےت‎ vincia] National Trade Union Congreas. 
(9) Shri Ram Chandra Sharma of the Hind 
Mazdoor Sabha, West Bengal. 
Shri S. .کا‎ Mitra, Labour Officer (Statistics), 
West Bengal, shall be the Secretary of the 
Advisory Committee. 


No. 4086Lab./G/1LA-140/55.—13th if 71081 
1956.—Whereas in the opinion of the Govern- 
ment the benefita provided for the employees of 
the Map Reproduction Press, West Bengal Draw- 
ing Office, 35 Gopal Nagar Road, Caleutta-27, 
under the Director of Land Records and Surveys, 


کے এক‏ ڈں کم مھ رم لسن عو سان tens জপ‏ 7 -- 200‪یء)/ 


West Bengal, «ure in receipt of benefits sub- 
stantially similar to those for which — the 
Mmplofyees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV 
of 1948), imakes provision; 

Now, therefore, in exereise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 90 of the said Act, the Gov- 
ernor is pleased to exempt the said factory from 
the operation of the said Act with effect from the 
15th August 1956, aubject to the condition that 
no alteration in the existing benefits enjoyed by 
the empleyees should be made without prior 
approval oi Government, | 


No, 4087 Lab. /Gj1A-140/55.—15th August 1956. 
—In exercise of the power conferred by section 87 
of the Envployees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(XXXIV of 1948), the Governor is pleased ٥ 
exempt the factories mentioned in the schedule 
below from the operation of the said Act for a 
period of six months trom the 14th August 1956, 
the requirement of section 89 of the said Act 
having already been complied with: 


Schedule 

(1) Klectrical Workshop at Kidderpore under 
the Works and Buildings Department, 

(2) Mechanical Workshop at  Kidderpore 
under the Works and Buildings Depari- 
ment. 

(9) Workshop. attached to the Bengal Iingi- 
neering College, Howrah, 

(4) Workshop at 40 Beltala Road, Calentta, 
under the Home (Police) [epartment. 


(65) The Bengal Tanning Institute, Canal 
South Road, Caleutta-15, 


(6) The Bengal Ceramic Institute, 71 Sura Ist 
Lane, Caleutta-10. 


(7) The Industrial Research  JLaboratofy, 
aleutta. 


(8) The Workshop under the Mechanica] aud 
Electrical Division of the Directorate of 
Trrigation, West Bengal (the exemption 
will not extend to the Power House when 
generation of electricity starts). 

(9) West Bengal Vaccine Laboratory. 

(10) West Bengal Vaccine Institute. 


No. 3692Dis./D/1A-7/56.—21st August 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that the public 
interest requires that the industries specified in the 
schedule hereto, being industries iu iron and steel, 
should be declared as public utility services ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) ~ 
of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased to declare 
hereby the industries specified in the schedule 
hereto to be public utility services for a period of 
sif’months on and from the 22nd August 1956: 


SCHEDULE 
Industries in fron and Steel, 


5; {Dp Kulti Works of the Indian Iron & Steel Co., 
aud, 


C nee Works of the Indian Standard Wagon 
۸ء‎ 40, 


(3) Burnpur Works of the Indian Iron & Steel 
Co., Ltd. 


No. 4100] ab. /G@/1A-65/56.— 14th August 1956. 
~-In exercise of the powers conferred by — sec- 
tion 87 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (XXXTV of 1948), the Governor has been 
pleased hereby to exempt the factories belonging 
to the Caleutta Tramways Company, Limited. 
mentioned in the schedule below, fronr the operation 
of the suid Act, subject to the condition that such 
exemption shall cease to be in force after a perio 


Part I} 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 - 3277 


Se oe renee ee eee টি 


4 
of one year from the 14th August 1956, the 
requirement of section 89 of the said Act, having 
already been complied with: এ 


Schedule 


1, Caleutta Tramways Company, Limited, 
Nonapukur Workshops, 183 and 184 Vower 
Circular Road, Entally, Calceutta-14. 


2. Caleutta Tramways Company, Limited, 
Ghusbagan Tramways Depot (Howrah), 80 
Dr. Abuni Datta Road, Salkia, Howrah. 

3. Calcutta Tramways Company, Limited, 
Tollygunge Tramways Depot, 147 Russa Road, 
Caleutta-33, 

4. Calcutta Tramways Company, ٤ 
(Gariahata Tramways Depot; 52 Gariahata Road, 
Calcutta-19. 

6. Calcutta Tramways Company, Limited, 
Kalighat Tramways Depot, 138 Russa Road, P. ۰ 
Kulighat, Calcutta. 


6. Calentta Tramways Qompany, Limited, 
Kidderpore Tromways Depot, 97 Circular Garden 
Reach Road, Calcutta-28. 

7. Caleutta Tramways Company, Limited, 
Raja Bazar Tramways Depot, 298 Upper Circular 
Road, Calcutta. 
| 8. Calcutta Tramways Company, Limited, 
WBelgachia Tramways Depot, 34 Belgachia Road, 
raleutta-37, 

°9. Calcutta Tramways Company, 
Mark Cireus Tramways Depot, 1 
Exhibition Road, Caleutta-17. 


Limited, 
Congress 


By order of the Governor, 

D. ১. P. MUKILERJEE, Jt. Secy. 

No. 8695Dis. /D/121.-9/56.—21st August 1956.— 

The (tovernor is pleased to grant Shri B. K. 

Basu, Assistant Labour Yommissioner, West 

Bengal, earned leave for twenty days from the 

20th August 1956 to the &th September 1956 

under rule 10107) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I. 


By order of the Governor, 


N.C. MAITRA, 1(8 Secy. 


LABOUR DIRECTORATE 
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR 


WORKING CLASS FOR NADIA. 
MURSHIDABAD FOR THE MONTH OF 
MAY 1956 


Base: Year 1951=100 


a il بت‎ a جو‎  تعسد‎ _a اس‎ ৯৬০১, ৯:১৭ পপর, oe 


۱ May April May 

Iteme. 1955. | 1956. | 1966. 
Food ie 7 70 83 84 
Fuel and Lighting . B4 9] 91 
Clothing . 7 মির 74 vii} 77 
Miscellaneous ne 06 91 90 
House Rent 100 100 100 
Combined Index 


The Consumer Price Index number has gone up 
۲۰۱ point to 85 from 84 during the previous 
month. The increase is due mainly to rise in the 
prices of dal, vegetables, egg, coal, firewood, 
dhoti, saree, coating, drill, hair oil, ete. 


SN, 011১7171151] 1515 


Dy. Labour Commissioner. 


CONSUMER PRICE INDEX NUMBER FOR WORKING CLASS 
IN 0۸٢. 


Base 1944 109 


Group Index, 


Groups. Weight June. April May June 
19565. 1956. 1956, 1966. 
Food -. 65-66 117 132 133 136 
‘Fuel and Lighting 7:28 96 97 97 98 
Clothing 7 7°74 127 134 136 136 


Miscellaneous .. 12-61 149 161 152 151 
House rent ee 6-71 100 100 100 100 


বল পাপ سم‎ Hs 


General Index .. ٥ 119 130 131 133 


N.B.—The Index Number for June 1956 has gone up by 2 
points over the provious month due to rise in prises of 1 atta, 
(11) flour, (iii) mustard oil, (0৮) vegetable, (v) fish, (vi) firewood 
(vii) dhoti, (viii) saree, (ix) coating, and (x) shirtings, etc. 


8. N, CHATTERJEE, 
for Labour Commissioner. 


CO-OPERATIVE DIRECTORATE 
ERRATA, 
Dated Caleutta, the 9th August 195d. 


In paragraph 2 of thig office order No. 3364, 
dated 26th May 1956, published at page 2094 of 
the Calcutta Gazette on Tth June 1956 please read 
1958” in place of “1955” after the words ‘“Decem- 
ber’? appearing in Ist and 2nd lines. 


K. VY. A. MENON, Registrar. 


DEPARTMENT OF FOOD, RELIEF AND 
SUPPLIES 


Food and Supplies 
| NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 9010F.$.—16th August 1956.—In exercise 
of. the powers conferred by the proviso ص٥‎ 
article 309 of the Constitution of India, the 
(iovernor is pleased to make the following 
amendments to the rules to regulate the pay of 
the staff in the Food, Relief and Supplies (Food 
und Supplies). Department, promulgated with 
notification No. 6786F.8., dated the 30th June 
1956, viz.: 


Amendments 


For the figure and word “30 days’ wherever 
they orcur in rule 268) of the said rules, substitute 
the figure and word | 

“60 days”. | 

No. 9172/F.S.—2lst August 1956.—The (tover- 

nor is pleased to grant Shri Kumaresh Roy, 


W.B.C.S. (Retd.), Deputy Director of Consumer 
(79018, the refused leave for four months on 


‘avarage pay for the period from the 28th August 


1956 to the 27th December 1956 under rule 
18401)) (ii) of the West Bengal Service Rules, | 
Part J, read with rule 185(1)(a), 202. ۱ 


By order of the Governor, 


A. K. MITRA, Dy. Séoy. 


8278. THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


DEPARTMENT OF LAND AND LAND 
REVENUE 


Land Revenue 


NOTIFICATIONS 


24.Parganas-Calcutta.—No. 141641,,A.--]1th 
August 1956.—The Governor is pleased to appoint, 
until further orders, Shri Krishna Chandra 
Banerji, Deputy Magistrate and Deputy Collector 
and Special Land Acquisition Officer, 24-Par- 
ganas, as Assistant Secretary, Land and Land 
Revenue Department. 


No. 14490L.R.—20th Auguat 1956.—In  exer- 
else of the power conferred by sub-section (3) of 
section 1 of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy 
Act, 1956 (West Bengal Act XII of 1956), the 
Governor is pleased to make the following amend- 
ment in the Government of West Bengal, Land 
und Jiand Revenue Department notification 
No. 6350L.R., dated the 30th March 1956, pub- 
lished at ‘pages 681 to 686 of Purt I of the 
Calcutta Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 31st 
March 1956, as subsequently amended (herein- 
after referred to as the said notification), namely :— 


Amendment 


Tn the achedule to said notification, after item 
XXVITI, add the following items, namely :— 
“(X XIX) The area within the local limits of 
the jurisdiction of the Municipal ..Corpora- 
tion of Chandernagore, in the district of 
Hooghly. 
(XXX) The area comprised in mauza 
Champadanga, jurisdiction list No. 07, uuder 
Tarakeswar police-station, in the district 
of Hooghly, within the boundaries speci- 
fied below :— 
North-—Tarakeswar Champadanga Road. 
South—Ahalyabai Road and the embankment. 
Kast—Mauza Ankargaria, jurisdiction list 
No. 78. 
West—River Damodar. 7 
((XXXT) The town of Kulti comprising the 
following mauzas under the Kulti  police- 
station, in the district of Burdwan :— 
Mauza Kendua (jurisdiction lst No. 14), 
Mauza Fatau (jurisdiction list No. 15). 
Mauza Kulti (jurisdiction list Nu. 16). 
Mauza Kuldiha (jurisdiction list No. 26).’’ 


2. This notification shall be deemed to kave 
effect and to have always had effeet on and from 
the 3tst day of March 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
S. BANERJEE, Secy. 


سمسسحموشسشی 


Land Acquisition 


NOTIFICATIONS, 


Midnapore--—No, 14076L.A.(P.W.).—9th August 
-1956.—Whereas it appears to the Governor that 
land is likely to be needed for a public purpose 
not being a purpose of the Union, namely, for 
silt clearance of Dunia Khal (section from Habi- 
chak Khal to Narayandari) im the villages of 
Brojalalchak, Rusikachak, Osmanpur, Sultanpur, 
Dhanyasri, Shayamsundarpur, Muradpur, Hahi- 
chak and Erasol, jurisdiction list Nos. 81, 79. 85, 
75, 76, 86. 128, 102 and 90, respectively, police- 
station Nandigram, and in the villages of 
Narayandari and Bhabanichak,  juridiction ا8(‎ 
Noa, 152 and 151, respectively, police-station 
Bhagwanpur. pargana Aranganagar, district 
Midnapore, 1 is hereby notified that a ptece of 
land comprising cadastral plots as detailed below 
and measuring, more or less, 96.33 acres, 18 likely 
to be needed for the aforesaid public purpose 


[Parr ] 


at the public expense within the 7 
villages of Brojalalchak, Rasichak, Osmanpur, 
Sultahpur, Dhanyasri, Shyamsundarpur, Murad. 
pur, Habichak, Erasol, Narayandari and Bhabani- 
chak; 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector, Midnapore. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section the Governor is pleased to 
authorise the officers for the time being engaged in 
the undertaking, with their servants and workmen, 
to enter upon and survey the land and do all other 
acts required or permitted by that section. 

Any ‘person interested in the above land who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification is given 
in the locality, file an objection in writing before 
the Collector of Midnapore. 


DISTRICT MIDNAPORE 


Police-station Nandigram 
Village Brojalalehak, jurisdiction list No. ۰ 


Cadastral survey plots in full---162, 544, 627, 
164, 765, 770, 771, 772, 778, 1121, 1122, 1123, 
3213, 3214, 3215, 3866, 3367, 3368, 4054, 4055, 
4056, 4088, 4089, 4090, 7895, 7896 and 7936, 


790, 795, 838, 839, 1116, 1117, 1120, 1197) 1138, 
13! 1178, 1 1183, 
1292, 1317, 1818, 1319, 13820, 1821, 
1328, 1279, 3140, 3142) 3143) 3144’ 3191, 3200, 
3201, 3202, 3211, 3212, 3237, 3238, 3239, 3361, 
3362, 3365, 3870. 8071) 3372, 3485, 3486, 3487. 
3618, 3519, 3520. 3553, 3434, 3535, 3537, 3538, 
3546, 3547, 3548, 3558, 3554, 4053, 4091 4099, 
400, 4094, 4095, 4096, 4100, 7900, 7922, 7968 
and 8020. 

Village Rasikachak, jurisdiction list No. 79. | 


Cadastral survey plots in full—170, 171, 172, 
173, 174, 176, 177, 178 and 179. 

(‘adastral survey plots in part—4, 5, 26, ۰ 
29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 36, 37, 38, 39, 175, 180, 181, 
192, 195 and 196. 

Village Osmanpur, jurisdiction list No. 85. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—687, 1040, 

1162, 1072, 1073, 1074, 1076, 1077, 1078, 1079, 

1116, 1118 and 1119, 

Village Sultanpur, jurisdiction list No. ۰ 
Cadastral survey plot in full—1928. 
Cadastral survey plots in part—-1687, 

1841, 1844, 1846, 1926 and 1927. ۱ 

Village ,۸ۃ جھ(((‎ jurisdiction list No. 76. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—783, 978, 1147, 

1149 and 1544. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—784, 790, 791, 
794, 795, 800, 971, 974, 1000, 1015, 1114, 1114, 
4116, 1117, 1118, 1148, 1178, 1197, 1198, 1199, 
1200, 1407 and 1535. 

Village Syamsundarpur, jurisdiction list No. 86. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—25, 26 and 495. 
Cadastral survey plota in part—-1, 2, 38, 7, 83 

9, 15, 16, 22, 23, 27, 28, 29, 32, 88, 34, 36, 36, 

46, 50, 51, 56 and 57, 

Village Muradpur, jurisdiction list No, 128. 

Cadastral survey ‘plots in part—1, 2, 4, 5, 18: 
20), 35 and 68, 


1840, 


Part [| 


Village Wabichak, jurisdiction list No, 102. 
Cadagtral survey plots in full—377 and 582. 


Cadastral survey plots in part-—-135, 186, 137, 
188, 139, 140, 575, 576, 578, 579, 580, 581, 583 
and 584. 

Village KErusal, jurisdiction list No. 90. 

Cadastral survey plots in full—22389, 2580, 
22081) 2682, 2683, 3454 and 3556. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—1914, 1915, 
1916, 1995, 2038, 2084, 2035, 2036, 2037, 2050, 
9051, 2052, 2132, 2138, 2134, 2135, 2138, 2139, 
9140, 2199, 2200, 2202, 22038, 2204, 2208, 
2218, 88157 2020+ Reel, 2222, ٤04ر‎ 
9035, 2288, 2279, ১2280, 2281, 2282, 2289) 
2284, 2285, 2288, 2289, 2290, 2291, 2434, 
9435, 2437, 2439, 2447, 2449, 2450, 2621, 
9522, 2687, 25688, 2539, 2673, 2574, 25675, 
9576, 2577, 2578, 2579, 2586, 2587, 2588, 
9601, 2602, 2603, 2605, 2606, 2608, 2009, 
9614, 2615, 2684, 2754, 2755, 2756, 2757, 
2758, 2759, 2760, 2761, 2762, 2763, 2764, 
2765, 2786, 2787, 2789, 2790, 2791, 2792, 2803, 
2804, 2805, 2811, 3112, 3113, 3114, 3115, 3116, 
3117, 3121, 3122, 3123, 3136, 31381, 3132, 3133, 
7174, 3155, 93482, 3492, 3496, 3519, 3527 and 


Police-station Bhagwanpur 

Village Narayandari, jurisdiction list No. 152. 

Cadastral survey plots in full—1567, 1617, 
2137, 2301, 2402 and 2326. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—-1387, 1389, 
1390, 1614, 1616, 1616, 1618, 2149, 2305, 2306, 


2307, 2318, 2319, 2824, 2325, 2327 and 4344. 


Village Bhabanichak, jurisdiction list No, 151. 
Cadastral survey plot im part—278. 


Burdwan.— No. 14198L.A.—llth August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land 
is likely to be needed for a public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for the 
settlement of immigrants who have migrated into 
the State of West Bengal on account of circum- 
stances beyond their control in, the village of 
Narsamuda, jurisdiction list No. 5, thana Asansol, 
pargana Shergarh, district Burdwan, it is hereby 
notified that pieces of land comprising cadastral 
survey plot Nos. 857, 859, 872 and 1734-1745 and 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 850, 851, 853, 
855, 856, 868, 860, 861, 864, 869, 873, 1730, 1731 
and #733 and measuring, more or less, 18-67 acres 
are likely to be needed for the aforesaid public 
purpose at the public expense within the aforesaid 
Willage of Narsamuda; 

This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act T of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 

A plan of the Jand may be inspected in_ the 
ofice of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as el as in that of the District Relief 
‘Officer Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the afore- 
sald section, the Governor is pleased to authorise 
the officers for the time being engaged in the under- 
taking, with their servants and workmen, to enter 
upon and survey the land and de all other acts 
required or permitted by that section. 

Any person. interested in so much of the above 
lands as are not waste and arable who has any 
Objection to the acquisition thereof, may, within 
thirty days after the date ou which public notice 
of the substance of this notification is given in the 
locality, file an objection in writing before the 
Collector of Burdwan. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, as 
amended by Act ۴۶۶۲111 of 1928 the Governor 
۱٠١ pleased to direct that the provisions of section 
5A of the Act shall not apply to the waste and 
| atable portions of the land, ‘ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


6419 
সস 

Calcutta.—No. 143791,.48..1909 August 1956.— 
Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be needed for w public purpose, not 
being a purpose of the Union, namely, for opening 
out of the 20 ft. alignment for extension of 
Siddheswari Road to connect the Lake ‘lerrace 
{Calcutta Im provement Trust Scheme > 
No. XLVII) in Ward No. 63 (old No. 27) of the 
Culcutta Municipality, in the city of Calcutta, 
it is hereby notified that a piece of land com- 
prising portions of premises Nos. P-110 of C.L.T. 
Scheme No. XLVII—DLake Terrace and 24/5, 
lake Road and measuring, more or less, 0.0165 
of an acre, bounded on the— 


North—By Siddheswari Road, 
East—By premises No. 24/5, Lake Road, 
South—By Lake Terrace, 


West—By the remaining portion of premises 
No. P-110, C.1.Trust Scheme No. XLVII, 


is likely to be needed for the aforesiad public 
purpose at the expense of the Corporation of 
Calcutta within the aforesaid Ward No. 63 (old 
No. 27) of the Calcutta Municipality, in the city 
of Calcutta; 


This notification is made, under the provisions 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected im the 
office of the Second Land Acquisition Collector, 
Caleutta, at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
afuresaid section, the Governor is [019,860 to 
authorise the officers for the time being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servants and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all other acts required or permitted by that. 
section. 


Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection to the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which 
public notice of the substance of this notification 
is given in the locality, file an objection in 
writing before the Second Land Acquisition 
Collector, Calcutta at No. 5, Bankshall Street, 
Calcutta. 


Burdwan.—No. 14306L.A.—Ildth August 1956. 
—Whereas it appears to the Governor that land is 
likely to be neded for a public purpose, not being 
a purpose of the Union, namely, for aforestation, 
in the village of Rasunpur, jurisdiction — hist 
No. 16, thana Barabani, pargana  Shergarh, 
district Burdwan, it 08 hereby notified that a 
piece of Jand comprising part of cadastral survey 
plot No. 277, and measuring, more or less, 6.99 
acres 18 likely to be needed for the aforesaid 
publie purpose at the public expense within the 
aforesaid village of Rasunpur. 


This notification is made, under the provisions. 
of section 4 of Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern, 


A plan of the land may be inspected in_ the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Officer, 
Burdwan, as well ag in that of the Divisional 
Forest Officer, Burdwan, 

In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
aforesaid section, the Governor is pleased to 
nuthorise the officers for the tame being engaged 
in the undertaking, with their servauvts and 
workmen, to enter upon and survey the land and 
do all other acts required or permitted by that 
section. 

Any person interested in the above land, who 
has any objection tq the acquisition thereof, may, 
within thirty days after the date on which public 
notice of the substance of this notification ١ع‎ 
riven in the locality, file an objection in writing 
মি the Collector of Burdwan, 


545) 


Darjeeling.—No. 14308L.A.—13sth August 1956. 
~The (tovernor is pleased to cance] notification 
No. 838761L.A., dated the dth 'May 1953, under 
section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, 
published at page 1506, Part I of the Calcutta 
Gazette of ‘the 1ldth idem, in respect of the pro- 
posed acquisition of 0.76 of an acre of land 
required for construction of a town outpost af 
Siliguri in the village of Gazalsing, jote Gazal- 
sing, jurisdiction list No.'.113, thana Siliguri, 
district Darjeeling. 


Hooghly.——-No. 14570L.A.—22nd August 1956. 
—Ip.exercise of the powers conferred by section 
48(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, I of 1894, the 
~ Governor is pleased to withdraw from the acquisi- 
tion of a piece of land con»prising part of cadastral 
survey plot No. 262 and measuring, more or less, 
0.04 of an acre out of the total area of 4.2] arres 
of land covered by declaration No. 196]16L.A., 
dated 4th October 1955, published at puge 4116, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 13th idem 
and required, by the Damodar Valley Corporation 
for Distributary N/5 from chainage 0.0۸ to 
chainage 47.00 in comnection with Damodar Flood 
Control Profect in the district of Hooghly. 


ERRATA: 


Howrah.—No. 14274144719 August 1956.— 
In notification No. 2612L.A., dated the 12th 
February 1965, under section 4 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, I of 1894, published at page 877, 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 8rd March 
1965 11) respect of the proposed acquisition of land 
required by the Howrah Municipality for widen- 
ing and easing out bad corners in Akshoy Chakra- 
borty Lane in Ward No. VI of the Howrah Muni- 
سا‎ in the town of Howrah— 


Read. “0.036 of an acre’ in place of “0.06 of 


an acre’ in line ll. 


Burdwan.—No. 14310L.A.—13th August 1956. 
—In notification No. 3172L.A., dated Ist March 
‘1954, under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 
1 of 1894, published at page 869, Part I of the 
Calcutta Gazette of the 18th idem in respect of 
the proposed acquisition of land required for the 
construction of an approach road from Dak 
Bungalow Road to Katwa College compound in 
the village of Katwa, jurisdiction list No. 21, 
thena Katwa, district Burdwan— 

Kead the figures “0.124” for the figures “0.13” 

in line 13. 


Burdwan.—No. 144181.A.—l7th August 1956. 
—In notification No. 209701,.A., dated the 17th 
October 1955, under section 4 of the Land Acqui- 
Bition Act, I of 1894, published at pages 1955-56, 
Part J of the Culcutta Gazette, Extraordinory, of 
the 17th October 1955 in respect of acquisition 
of land required by the gee Valley Corpora- 
tion for excavation of Distributary 6B/1 in con- 


nection with the Damodar Flood ‘Contro] Project. . 


in the district of Burdwan— 


Read. ‘2.38 acres” for “2.34 acres” in line Ly. 


Insert the figure “1733” after the figure ‘189’ 
in Jine 25, ۱ 


Burdwan.—No. 144221,.A.—I7th August ۰ 
—In notification No. 15792L.A., dated the 18th 
October 1954, under section 4 of the Land Acquiai- 
tion Act I of 1894, published at page 1444, Part 
I of the Calcutta Gazette, Extraordinary, of the 
same date in respect of acquisition vf land 
required hy the Damodar Valley Corporation for 
Borrow pit, in between chainage 2405.00 and 
2417.90 of P.B.C. in connection with the Damodar 
Flood Control Project in the district of Burdwan—- 

(2) Read the words “sparta of” after the word 

“Barampur’’ in line 13; and 


(113 Read the figure ‘0.74’ in place of the 
figure “0.86’’ in line 17. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


706, 710, 712, 


{Parr 1 


পর 14 ০০০০০০১০০০৫ ame!‏ مد 
rae eo ee ee ই mas‏ 5 ہم سے سوچ pT লে 0 or ep‏ 


NOTICE, 


No. 14328L.A.(P.W.).—14th August 18950, 
Whereas 8.115 acres, more or less, of land situate 
in or near the villages of Khanjadapur, Benapur, 
Chandanapara and Khajurnan, described below, 
have been requisitioned under sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the West Bengal Land (Requisition 
and Acquisition) Act, 1948, by the person author- 
ised sc فو‎ the said section 3(T) for the purpose of 
providing facilities for irrigation and drainage, 
namely, for silt clearance of Chandanapara Khal, ’ 

Now, therefore, notice is hereby given that in 
pursuance of section 4 of the said Act the Gov- 
-ernor acquires 8001) land 1)6)08 required for a 
public purpose as aforesaid. 

This notice is given under the provisions of 
sub-section (18) of section 4 of the West Bengal 
Land (Requisition und Acquisition) Act, 48 
(West Bengal Act II of 1948), to all whom it may 
concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected 1) the 
office of the Collector of Howrah. 


DESCRIPTION OF LAND 
Police-station Bagnan, district Howrah 
Village Khanjadapur, jurisdiction list No. 85. 

Cadastral survey plots in full----$51-711. 


Cadastral survey plots in part. -1.25, 426, 427 
428, 430, 431, 1021. 646, 649, 650, 652, 654, 655, 
722, 728, 725, 726, 737, 738, 
741, 742, 743, 745, 746, 747, 766 and 767. 


Village Benapur, jurisdiction list No, 86. 

Cadastral survey plots in full—870, 871, 3, 4, 4, 
6, 7 and 8. 

Cadastral survey plots in part—334, 886, 337, 
338, 339, 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, 359, 360, 361, 
064, 365, 364, 442, 443, 444, 447, 448, 454, 465, 
457 and 463. 


Village Chandanapara, jurisdiction list No, 87. 
Cadastral survey plots in full—817, 818, 819, 
820, 821 and 503. 
vadastral survey plots in part—1l, 2, 3, 4, 0) 
20, 501, 502, 504. 810, 811, 826 and 827. 


Village Khajurnan, jurisdiction list No. 88. 


Cadastral survey plots in part—1201, 1203, 1204 
and 1205. 


ERRATUM 


Birbhum.---No. 14330L.A.(P.W.).—l4th August 
1956.—In notice No. 108141.A.(P?.W.), dated 9th 
June 1956, under section 4(1a) of the West Benjral 
Land (Requisition and Acquisition) Act, 1948 
(West Bengal Land Act II of 1948), published at 
pages 1465-1466, Part I of the Calcutta Gazette, 
Eetravrdinary of the 11th June 1956 in respect 
of acqvisition of land for the purpose of providing 
facilities for irrigation and drainage, namely, for 
Distributary No. 6 of Dwarka Brahinani Main 
Canal in connection with Mayurakhi Reservoir 
Project in the village of Kanduri, jurisdiction list 
No. 22 and others all under police-station Rampur- 
hut, district Birbhum :— 


Read the figure ‘634 in thetween the figure 
“633”? and the word “and” for the figure 
“631” in lines 45 and 48. 


DECLARATIONS 


Calcutta.—No. 14078L..A.—9th August 18956, 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land 18 
needed for a tpublie purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for widening the passage 
connecting Girish Mukherjee Road with Ramesh 
Mitter Road to the prescribed alignment of 2) 
feet, in Ward No. 68 (old No. 22) of the Calcutta 
Municipality in the city of Calcutta, it is hereby 
declared that a piece of land comprising a portion 


Parr 1] 


টি Se Oe Ee শপ সপ আশ سید و‎ eye ০ ত সপন জনিত তি শত জা 


of premises No. 40, Girish Mukherjee Road and 
measuring, more or less, 0.0486 of بث‎ acre 
bounded on the— 


North—By Girish Mukherjee Road, 


East-—-By the remaining portion of premises 
No. 40, Girish Mukherjee Road, 


South—By a passage, 
৬০১৮1) Girish Mukherjee Road, 


is needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Corporation of Calcutta within the 
aforesaid Ward No. 68 (old No. 22) of the Calcutta 
Municipality in the city of Calcutta; 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. 


۸ plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Second Land Acquisition Collector, 
Caleulta, at No. 5, Bankshall Street, Calcutta. 


۱ 

Midnapore.—No. 1491011.4..-215 August 1956. 
—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, viz., for the construction of 

132 K. V. Grid Sub-station at Khargpur, in the 
village of Taibagicha এ], Kuchlatari, jurisdiction 
1181 No. 145, in thana Khargpur, pargana 
Balarampur, district Midnapore, it is hereby 
~deelared that a piece of land comprising parts of 
- cadastral survey plot Nos. 29, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 
43 and 46 and measuring, more or less, 15.43 acres, 
is needed for the aforesaid public purpose at the 
expense of the Damodar Valley Corporation 
within the aforesaid village of Taibagicha ; 

Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion of 
the land, except only such parts of the mines and 
minerals as it may be necessary to dig or carry 
away, or use in the construction of the work for the 
purpose of which the land is being acquired, are 
not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, to all whom it may 
concern. | 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Collector, Midnapore. 


Burdwan.—No, 14514L.A.—2l]st August 1956. 
—Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 

at the Union, او‎ , for Left Dyke No. 3 of 
“Maithon Dam Project in connection with the 
Damodar Flood Control Project, in the village of 
Bathanbari, jurisdiction list No. 4, thana Salanpur, 
district Burdwan, it is hereby declared that pieces 
of Jand comprising cadastral survey plot No. 797 
and parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 774, 776, 
785, 796, 798, 800, 901, 982 and 959 and altogether 
measuring, more or less, 13.38 acres, are needed 
for the aforesaid public purpose at the expense of 


the Damodar Valley Corporation within the afore-.. _ 
said village of Bathanbari ; 0 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 


yng under the Jand or any particular portion of 


e land, except only such parts of the mines and 
minernia as it may be necessary to dig or carry 
away, or use in the construction of the work for the 
purpose of which the land is being acquired, are 
not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act T of 1894, and section, 4, clause 
(1),-Act XVITT of 1885, to all whom it may 


concern. 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special and Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


Burdwan.—No. 14618],,A.—21st August 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor is satisfied that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Maithon Borrow Area in 


THE*’CATLUTTA GAZETTE,“ AUGUST 30, 1966 


3281 


۰ 


امو سس ৪ ۰ পা‏ کے 
LS অস্ত ees!‏ 


connection with the Damodar Flood Control 
Project in the village of Hadla, jurisdiction ‘list 
No. 23, thana Salanpur, district Burdwan, it is 
hereby declared that pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 568, 572, 575, 
577, 578, 1175 and 1181, and altogether measur- 
ing, more or less, 3.87 acres, are needed for the 
aforesaid public purpose at the expense of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation within the aforesaid 
village of Hadla. . 


Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
lying under the land or any particular portion of 
the land, except only such parts of the mines and 
minerals as it may be necessary to dig or carry 
away, or use in the construction of the work for the 
purpose of which the land is being acquired, are 
not needed, 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894, and section 3, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 1885, t all whom it may 


concern. 


A plan of the land may be inspected in the office 
of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwag. 


Burdwan.—No. 14574L.A.—22nd August 1956. 
—Whereas the Governor is satisfiel that land is 
needed for a public purpose, not being a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base No. 32A of 
Burdwan-Belmurj section 132 K.V. Transmission 
line in connection with the promotion und opera- 
tion of scheme for generation, transmission and 
distrikution of electric energy in the village of 
Sehara, jurisdiction list No. 143, thana Burdwan, 


district Burdwan, it is hereby declared that a | 
piece of land comprising parts of cadastral survey. 
iplot Nos, 903 and 913 and measuring, more of less, . 


.0206 of an acre, is needed for the aforesaid pyblic 
purpose at the expense of the Damodar ‘Valley 
Corporation 
Sehara ; ۱ 
| Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerals 
yin 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and minerals as it may be necessary ‘o 01৮ or 
carry away, or use in the construction of the work 
for the purpose of which the land is being acquir- 
ed are not needed. 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 
of section 6, Act I of 1894 and section J, clause 
(1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom 1t may 


concern, 

A jplan of the land-may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collcctor, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


within the aforesaid village of 


under the land or any particular portion ٠ 


Burdwan.—No. 14578L.A,.—22nd Augugt .8ا"‎ 


— Whereas the Governor is satisfiel that land is 


needed for a public purpose, not Leing a purpose 
of the Union, namely, for Tower Base Nos. 83R + 
10 and 84B4+10 of Burdwan-Beluuri section 
1382 K.V. Transmission line in connection with 
promotion and operation of scheme for generation. 
transmission and distribution of electric eneray 
in the village of Basisthapur, jurisdiction lst 


No. 17, thana Jamalpur, district Burdwan, it 18 


hereby declared that pieces of land comprising 
parts of cadastral survey plot Nos. 602, 804 and 
805 and altogether measuring, more or less, .OTd+ 
of an acre, are needed for the aforesaid ۶۳ 
purpose at the expense of the Damodar Valley 
Corporation within the aforesaid village 01 
Basisthapur; 

Mines of coal, iron-stone, slate or other minerala 
lying under the land or any particular Portion 
of the land, except only such parts of the mines 
and miaeraly as it may the necessary to dig or 
carry uway, or use in the construction of the work 
for the purpose of which the land is being acquir- 
ed are not needed. ج8‎ 


This declaration is made, under the provisions 


of section 6, Act I of 1894 and section 3, clause. 


8282 THE CALCUTTA GAZEVTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


(1), Act XVIII of 1885, to all whom it may 
conver, 

A plan of the land may be inspected in the 
office of the Special Land Acquisition Collector, 
Damodar Valley Project, Burdwan. 


ERRATA, 


Burdwan.—No. 14420L.A.—l7th Auguat 1956. 
—In declaration No. 20972L.A., dated the 17th 
October 1955, under eection 6 of the Land Acquisi- 
tion Act, I of 1894, published at page 4369, Part 
I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 27th October 
1955 in. respect of acquisition of land required by 
the Damodar Valley Corporation for excavation 
of Distributary 6B/1 in connection with the 
Damodar Fiood Contrul Project in the district of 
Burdwan— 

Read “2.29 acres” for “2.25 acres” in line 12. 

insert. the figure “1733” after the figure 5183), 

in line 


[Parr I 


Burdwan.-—No. 14424L.A.—l7th August 1256. 
—tIn déclaration No. 16588L.A., dated the 3rd 
November 1954, under section 6 of the Land 
Acquisition Act, J of 1894, published at page 
3935, Part I of the Calcutta Gasette of the 11th 
idem in respect of the acquisition of land required 
by the Damodar Valley Corporation for Borrow 
pit in between chainage 2405.00 and chainage 
2417.90 of P.B.C. in connection with the Damo- 
dar Flood Control Project in the district of 
Burdwan— ۱ 


(i) Read the words “part of” after the word 
“Baramipur” in lne 13; and 


(it) Read the figure ‘0.74 in place cf the 
figure ‘‘0.86’’ in line 16. 


By order of the Governor, 


P. M. DATTA, Dy. Secy. 


০০ 
_and Reforms 


NOTIFICATION 


No. 14780L..Ref.—27th August 1956.——-The following draft of amend- 
ments which, in exercise of the power conferred by section 59 of the West 
- Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (West Bengal Act I of 1954), the 
(toverner proposes to make in the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Rules, 
1954, as subsequently amended (hereinafter referred to as the said rules), is 
hereby published, as required: by sub-section (1) of the said section, for the 
information of persons likely to be affected thereby. 

2. The draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 10th 
September 1956, and any objection or suggestion with respect thereto, which 
may be received by the undersigned before that date, wel be considered : 


Draft Amendments 


1. For sub-rule (8) of rule 10 of the said rules, substitute the following 
sub-rule, namely— 
“(3) Applications for ad-interim payment under section 12 shall be 
pe eee to the Collector or any other officer authorised by the 
‘ollector in this behalf. The application shall contain all parti- 
culars of the estates and interests of the intermediary situated 
in the district. Where the applicant held estates situate in more 
than one district, such application may be filed before the 
Collector of the district on the Tauzt Roll of which such estates 
are borne. Every such application shall be in Form 3A appended 
to these rules or in a form substantially similar thereto. Where 
the application is for ad-interom payment under sub-section (2) 
of section 12, true copies of the Deed of Trust or Dedication or 
Arpannama or any other document in support of such claim shall 
also be furnished along, with the application.” 
2. For sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the said rules, substitute the following 
sub-rule, namely— 

‘“(2) For the purpose of sub-rule (1), the Collector may take into con- 
- gideration any return furnished by an intermediary in pursuance 
of the proclamation issued under rule 6, or the attested record 
of the revisional settlement operation, where available, or the 
record-of-rights prepared according to the provisions of the 
Bengal Tenancy Act, 1885 and kept in the District Record Room. 
He may, if necessary, reguive an intermediary to produce 
এ 077১0190707, Thoka, Karcha ofsimilar papers on such date as may 
be specified by him. Such papers shall not be retained by the 

Collector unless voluntarily»made over by the intermediary.” 


By order of the (tovernor, 


৪. BANERJEE, Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL 
HUSBANDRY AND FORESTS 


Agriculture 
NOTIFICATIONS 
No. 8824Agri.—llth August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to post Shri Sankar Chandra Maitra, 
HWeodmaster, Cooch Behar Agricultural School, as 
Additional Superintendent of Agriculture, Midna- 
pore, 


No. 8825Agri.—1]th August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint temporarily Shri Pabitra 
Kamar Chakrahorty, B. Ag., Lecturer in Agricul- 
ture and Rural Science, Post-Graduate Basic 
Training College, Banipur, until further orders, 


as Headmaster, Cooch Behar Agricultural School 


in the West Bengal Agricultural Service, 6ھ‎ 
Shri Sankar Chandra Maitra. 


By order of the Governor, 
P, C. GOPE, Dy. Secy. 


Pang I] 


رر ই‏ ہہ ہیں 
کی ید সপ‏ 


Forests 

e NOTIFICATIONS 

Burdwan.—No. 7O092Ior.—26th June 1956.— 
Whereas the Governor thinks that in the case of 
the forest lands situate within the district of 
Burdwan and described in the schedule below, 
the enquiry and record referred to in the first 
লি, of sub-section (9) of section 29 of the 
ndian Forests Act, 1927 (XVI of 192%), will 


11111 CALCUTTA زظر0‎ ۲۷ ۸۰۲۹ 30, 1956 198) 


ocewpy such length of time as in the meantime to 
endanger the rights of Government; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the power con- 
ferred by the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 
29 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), 
the Governor is pleased, pending such enquiry and 
record, to declare, with effect from the date of the 
publication of this notification in the Official 


Gazette, such forest lands to be ‘protected forests.‏ ۔ 


THE SCHEDULE 


Description of forest lands 


Police-station Ausgram 


a Mauza. 
District. Parganas. (trench mame nce ——, Cadastral survey plot No Area in 
No. Name, acres 
Burdwan .» Gopbhum i 88 Ramohandrapur +. 4006 0-76 
4818 67-71 
4590 224 -20 
4597 10219 
1179 0:06 
Ditto ৬ ক Ditto oe 68 Alefnagar ee 1 we 16 00 
807 নব 2 0 
2212 ons 37 
2702 7 55 -42 
2707 “a 2°29 
2918 2 41-14 
2801 -۰ 336 6 
2010 22 40 
303 - 30 
2001 লীন 3:42 
2856 161 -25 
2615 90 -42 
2589 oe 157 -65 
2701 = 924 
2711 an 2538 -81 
2733 7 84 "৪81. 
2828 ae 24 ا‎ 
272 7 “7 
314 নি 531 
Ditto ae Ditto on 101 = Bhalki ہے‎ I1(P) we 12881 
۹ 10 (P) ৪৬ 1 7 
[15 (P) ee 1 0 
380 (P) ‘a 53 -69 
014 (P) ae 5:83 
1620 (P) “se 10 -83 
1646 (P) -۰ 46 -10 
1418 (P) 7 9:51 
1481 (P) ee 0:68 
1644 (P) we 0 +62 
4923 (P) one (۰ 
1/246 one 48 96 
1/248 oe 0:63 
3 @a 0 O04 
5/257 ৬ 3 +32 
128 20 4۰۰1 
503 es 86 “পচ 
609 7 86 -26 
513 i 21 8 
501 ae 168 45 
605 ae 0 -54 
‘ Be 3 
٠ 650/714 ۰ "۸.8 
0 7 22 -00 
Ditto ~ Ditto 7 1]. Moukhira = 2304 “ 84 
Ditto te Ditto vie 12 Hedogaria om hee 7٦ 2 7 ٦ 
2079 - 8 9 
2061 ee 1-09 
2072 tC ss 0°75 
2079 7 গ 0 
নি ce 44 82 
1263/1254 ee: 12006 
1205/1278 i 0-70 


3484 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ২ GUST 30, 1956 (Parr | 
| ৬ 
এ Mauza. : 
101. Parganus. rn Be een Cadastral survey plot No. Area in 
No. Nanie. acres, 

Burdwan .» Gopbhum 12 Hedogaria (contd.) 48 ৯ 82 98 
54 , 9786 

166 111 -03 

273 7 $1 0 

408 -۰ 4°59 

51/63 7 27 

0.0 7 سوا 

163/291 7 0-84 

52/68 ‘ 0-28 

Ditto 7 Ditto 36 Ramharipur »» 2027 2a 0°15 
120 aa 0-18 

1030 wa (0:28 

1070 ۶ 007 

1312 7 0-20 - 

118 7 000 

407 5 6:৮৫ 

220 af 1 -60 

1501 97 -20 

1324 a 39012 

2051/2160 0 +12 

Ditto ‘ Ditto -۰ 83 9০020818081) . | (5) ea 98 
128 a 1°15 

408 - 0-30 

Ditto -۰ Ditto as 37  Barachatra . 1259 7 64 1 
79 ae Q) -47 

2 ; 483 7 0 

7 | 505 7 0:39 

1083 7 18] -81 

1094 -7٦ 4“ 5 

1097 4 59:6৮. 

00 و 1202 
0-50 7 ۱ 1088 

1269/1270 و‎ 0.1) 
Ditto ৬৬ Ditto oe 62 Lakshminarayanpur ہے‎ 2 a 5 -48 
۱ 3 7 94 .5 
14 و‎ 82 

50 * 0-13 

202 রা 24 8 

225 we 10-18 

249 ; 1-01 

272 “+ 0-1) 

241 7 01 

Ditto oe Ditto oe 86 Radhaballavpur :. 401 2 246 0 
403 27 47 -80 

408 = 167 -26 

236 7 6-71 

381 ও 2038 

618 oa 26 -48 

512 (P) se 10-00 

239 ‘ 58 -78 

501 es 292 

۵8 ہہ ہے 248 

069 = 9 24 

239/251 2-43 

~ 167 -٦ 61 

618/625 as 0-23 

Ditto + Ditto - 7٦1 Gobindapur ৪117 টি 0-74 
702 ie 7000 
704 ; 63 -03 
706 115 -90 
1285 0.8 

Ditto - Ditto রাজ 11 25110551509 oe 994 و‎ 1 +18 
٠ 58 oe 904 0ء‎ 

101 ax 362 ‘78 

904 oe 24 .5 

007 کے 974 

987 a 2-19 
1256 0 0-33 
29 oa 184 55 
872 : ٤8 

566 7 0-53 

592 7 0 

640 7 1035 

801 72 87 

1068 708 

1252 টা 2-78 

844 Re 2 3 

966 i 09 

807 2 83 6 

2-06 و 88 

188 ap 0-14 

10 


Part 1] 


District. 


Burdwan ۰ 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Dittio 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 


THM CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


Parganas. 


., Benpahari 


re Ditto 

-. Gopbhum oe 
7 Ditto 7 

ee Ditto ৪ ریب‎ 
a6 Ditto رف‎ 
oe Ditto ee 
-» Silampur ee 


16 


14 


13 


88 


64 


89 


26 Paschim-Chandipur 


02885 


Furijungle 


Aduria 


Salko 


Amarargarh 


Kuldiha 


Dombandi 


ee 


ریب 


1774/2750 


2693 
2698 
2698 


213 
90/106 
121 
98 
100 
144 
160 
182 
184 
188 
192 
189 
260 
258 


210/219 (P) 


262 
243 


548 


1522 (P) 


2519 


1491 


Cadastral survey plot No.‏ ہہ 


* ےو‎ ও ও # @ 
ef 8# @ & © 


= € @ © « 


چپ ج ھچ ھ*٭ ھ غ8 ও‏ یج ও ও‏ 


٠ e e e e * ® 8 ® ‫.۰ s 


ee 


ee 


3286 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 امج‎ 1۷ ] 
Mauza. 
District. Parganas. ےم‎ ny Cadastral survey plot No. Area in 
No. Name. acres, 

Burdwan Salim pur . es 63 47381010180) -. 373 yi "0 7 
375 2 1-66 

388 ‘ 0-45 

409 এ 5°57 

416 -۰ 0-66 

06 2-2 و 1302 

1304 es 8°77 

1342 ৪৪ 10-32 

1344 লি 006 

563 7 0°39 

2°49 و 1345 

1258/1346 ae 2-12 

1356 ‘ 3:65 

1299 5 21-24 

860 26-50 

864 ee 1°09 

1168 es 214°82 

Ditto Gopbhum - 19 MHarinarayanpur ** 18 ae 46°59 
20 bk 85-62 

98 রি ee 32-22 

100 ۳ 27-58 

172 ee 6-08 

175 -۰ 97-30 

3 ni 86-99 

16 as 0:15 

23 ae ৮. 85 

28 ai 49-10 

30 : 28 

96 ৬৬ 1382-00 

177 7 0-22 

100/162 oe 20-05 

28/54 -۰ 0°34 

156 রর 4-54 

Ditto ee Ditto ane 3 Akulia ae 143 om پر‎ 16 
পা ea 0٠ = 

92% ag 0-10 

1001 ae 0:48 

155 ৮৬ 0-14 

984 - 0-82 

506 7٦ 0-06 

615 7 0-71 

225 ee 12-21 

374 (P) “a 9-78 

376 (P) vs 80 

870/380 (৮) 7 1:58 

948 (P) me 4°50 

1004 (P) es 47°89 

(P) ও ৮১‏ 1004/1008 ٭ 

374 (B) et 29-32 

376 (B) 7 161 

370/380 (13) - 49 

948 (B) ৬ ৬ 31 ۹ 50 

1004 (B) ‘ 143-69 

1004/1008 (B) 7 0-40 

149 ۰ 0۰40 

229 es 0-99 

224 7 290 

1-14 ماک 370 

219 es 1°37 

1003 oe 1-04 

221 ; 0:64 

Ditto ৬০ Ditto = 4 MHarinathpur ০ ا‎ os ١ : রি 

4 eo : 
3125 “a 2°53 
Ditto ae Ditto one 29 Ragakhilla = 6 ৪ 0 1 
127 0:$ 

Ditto = Ditto - . 61 Protapfur in 02 5 سا‎ 
117 Ay 0°16 

186 রা 0:99 

221 7 0:07 

258 7 0" 7 

483 ae 2°39 

08 7 0:44 

102 et 0-10 

632 নর 6-80 

630 Ae 3-06 

60868 ne 1-19 

843 2 0-15 

1477 3 809 

1510 27 0:58 

1698 7 0°07 

18690 7 1-05 

068 کت 1878 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 2281 


+ Mauza. 
Diatrict. Parganas. ey Cadastral survey plot No. Aree in 
No. Name. acres. 
Burdwan »» Gopbhum ae 61 Protappur—(concld.) مم‎ 1948 ae 0-52 
: 2467 oe 0 10 
203 i 0:17 
2537 es 91-60 
668 4 73-865 
132 ৬ 6-84 
145 ee 60°40 
1851 @e 88 ‘95 
1854 ee 47 09 
1856 oe 8-64 
2008 eo 24 15 
2034 oe 20 “85 
2302 ee 12 -75 
2304 “ss 12 -60 
2459 ৪ 111 95 
2534 7 71-51 
2533 /2542 i 23-14 
161 ee 69 9ء‎ 
430 oe 108 5 
433 oo 16 -56 
Ditto oe Ditto oe 70 Bilaspur »* 1119 7 144 -70 
1126 en 7 0ء‎ 
31 os 77 -85 
1119/1236 i. 4-45 
339 oe 0 -06 
361 ee ] 13 
366 ৫ ৪ 0 -24 
“* 891 7 .فا‎ oe 148 -67 
1119/1238 ہے‎ ৭183 
Ditto ee Ditto ae 62 Lakshminarayanpur oe 1.1 تب‎ ١أ‎ নর 97 06 
222 ৬ ৬ 1 -90 
226 ae 200 -92 
241 ee 0 71 
247 oe 1 -39 
252 جو ےت‎ 62 -89 
7 48 ٦ ar 0-10 
49 oe 0 13 
914/445 ee 0 -66 
ito 0لت‎ 7 84 Khandari .. 255 (P) 7 13-57 
= | 257 (P) = 0-20 
261 (P) a 2 0 
415 (P) 1-31 
428 (P) টি 4-81 
488 (P) 2 04 
490 (P) as 0 94 
498 (P) ie KO -10 
§07 (P) ee 1 -12 
509 (P) ae 1 ৮07 
611 (৮৯) 2 4-71 
514 (P) on 1 6 
616 (৮) মি 9-91 
335 (P) ৬৬ 149 
405 (৮) cs 49-70 
408 (P) ee 1 16 
413 (P) 0 22 9 
255 (৮) রর 6-79 
257 (P) # 0-10 
261 (P) ee 1-15 
415 (P) es 0 -66 
428 (P) ee 2 -41 
488 (P) iy 0-12 
490 (P 29 0-47 
498 (P) ঞ ক 0 05 
507 (P) ee 0 56 
609 (P) و‎ 04 
B11 (৮) ie 26 
614 (P) রর 0-78 
0 و‎ 
336 (P) ee ; 
405 (P) a 24 -85 
408 (P) ৮৯ 08 
418 (P) ae 11 -29 
255 (B) oe 6 ‘78 
257 (B) রর 0-10 
261 (13) be 1-16 
415 (B) ae 0-66 
428 (B) ee 2-41 
488 (93) fae 0-13 
490 (B) ee 0 -46 
498 (B) its 0 05 
607 (13) ee 0 -57 
509 (B) ৯৬ 0-54 
423 (13) + oe 11-31 
511 (B) ee 2 -36 
514 (B) a 0-78 
516 (B) ae پ‎ 8 
335 ৪ ae 3°70 
405 3 oe 24 ৪88 
408 iB 4 0-88 


8288 


District. 


Burdwan 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Burdwan 


Ditto 


Ditto 


eee 


THE. CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


Ditto 


§i ampur 


Ditto 


Shergarh 


Ditto 


Ditto 


۹م 


No. 


Mauza. 
nh 070৪৮] survey plot No. 


٤ٴ‎ 


Name. 


84 Khandari—(concid.) 


$5 Bs srambati 


Pe..+--Station Bara اج-‎ 


18 


Jingra 


Mokata 


Sarisatali 


= 


চা 


oo 


e@ 


701 
615/789 
607/794 


626 (P) 
7146 (P) 
759 (P) 
883 (P) 
626 (B) 
746 (B) 
759 (B) 
883 (B) 


1994 (P) 
2024 (P) 
2127 )P) 
2145 (P) 
2147 (P) 


2145/2229 (৮) 


1692 (P) 


1655 (P) 


1283/6646 
178 

660 (P) 
725 

51 

1283 


1302 (P) 
655 (P) 
572 


ক * ٠ নি -‏ یب اب bad‏ سس 


* ঞ 2 s e > e a 2 * চে ক 7 e a FY 


- جج © ©« ے لج‎ *& ও 


2 e 


Past I] শালার CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90, 1956. 9289 
t 


۰ Mauza. 
District. Parganas, —_—_—_ سسحظسس ےت کے‎ —— Cudastral survey plot No, Aroa in 
: No. Name. 0-9 
ثت‎ 
Burdwan .. Shergarh i 20 ٣-٠: eream-—(concld,) 7 ee 7 مد0‎ 
1152 ie 3-06 
1223 7 400 
[11 ৪ 8 -00 
1262 ne 42 -00 
9111 a 684 
473 7 265 
453 ga 5 
145 oe 2.4 
Os) 7 ۵ء‎ 
1014 bs 61-10 
532 7 ().43 
56S mT 22481 
187 ey 1 64 
1263 ae 22 ‘00 
388 De 3-66 
418 iy 0 -07 
428 i 0-4) 
431 ee 0 -Q7 
443 oe 2 -53 
469 a6 1 33 
« ৬ sp asec 
Ditto ৪ Ditto 7 17 Me-anpur »» 1197 (P) ee 98 -88 
1208 ۰ 0۰۰1 
1157 7۰ 110 
1139 oa 0-16 
1145 5% 1-00 
Ditto .. Ditto 7 কে “1263 7 18 -00 
1260 ae 10 
474/655 ai 8 -O0 
270 ee 22 
13 ۱ ae 110 
1 7 | 
263 a 0-13 
478 me 0:10 
484 aa 0-12 
Ditto ee Ditto ee 9 Kantapahari ee 2 ee 3 ie 
= ve pia -€ 
Vs ee 0 ‘63 
102 5-50 
100 ও 
113 i 130 
4 1-17 
6 0G -06 
9 12-00 
7 on 1-17 
13 ee 0 1 
12 172) ay 10 00 
Ditto ee Ditto Cw 2 1010 ae 20 ve vi ‘00 
1) os 15 -0( 
“66 7 0ءء‎ 
100 aa ও -4 
1048 کی‎ 1-32 
77 ۰ و‎ 7-00 
83 -7 8.7 
2 1 9 ae 12 :0 
809 17 -00 
205 a 8 -7¢ 
۰9 7 3-63 
164 wa & 700 
205 নি .40 
234 pe 1-87 
00 (P) : 06.0 
142 a 5.1 
Ditto এ Ditto জা 383 Daskheari ca 2৭ কর 8 0 
(4 ea ৪৯] 
6; 0 14 6 
Ditto 9 Ditto i 11. Aliganj ا سے ہے‎ 
606 ne 10-99 
Ditto .. Ditto 1111180 vo 85 ہم‎ সা, 
Ditto | és Ditto on 30 Khairabed .- 646) ar 
647 
| 7 2 12 Hesseinpur oe 4 7 6-98 
Ditto en Ditto 637 5 7 8 
609 : 7:06 
658 7 11-70 
109 7 0-18 
716 ee 3 03 


3290 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


Mauza. ¢ 
District. Parganas. |. ফিশ 00990 survey plot No. 
No. Naane. 
سے‎ 
Burdwan .- BShergarh “a 10 + Panuria -- 250/2702 -۰ 
822 Age 
643 
2895 ٠ 
2281 ‘ 
2282 
2323 
2426 : 
2430 
2431 7۰ 
1362/2728 ‘x 
1366/2729 hie 
2 7 
2286 ۱ 7 
2266 me 
2268 : 7 
1371 ee 
2428 ৬৬ 
638 cs 
2276 7 
2484 + 
1757, 7 
258 7 
1336 se 
1297 : 
1305 
2201 ‘ 
2272 i‘ 
2270 ‘ 
6 
Police-statien - لووود:‎ 
Burdwan on Shergarh on 31 ترا٭0ا‎ « on 1347 oe 
۱ 1899(P) = 
1337 
735 ٠ 
1305 on 
Police-station salanpur 
Burdwan .. Shergarh and Pan: ra 23 Hadla ৬ ۰ oe 
390 as 
197/592 oe 
499 ee 
359 ক 
104 ; 
69 ah 
1 رف‎ 
07 - 
412 a6 
435 es 
443 <% 
452 : 
48 7 
465 & 
468 
470 ‘ 
418 /584 ; 
68/586 রর 
Ditto . on Pandra ow 22 D eanadi ow রি 7 
লগ 875 ঙ ৬ 
411 ٦ 
Ditto am Ditto ow 4 Bat: anberi مم‎ 8 ' 
785 : 
932 7 
956 ne 
058 + 
, 969 ey 
Police-station Faridpur 
Burdwan -. BSalanpur os 80 Jomus on oy اک‎ 
Ditto -. BShergarb oe 74 Faridpur ew 301 ۶7 
| 3633 . 
3666 7 
8687 : 
3685 এ 
287 ve 
$618 ارم‎ 
8619 7 


oS 


৮৯ OH ও শপ শপ শপ mh‏ چ ےک سد ی بت ی ي یىی سر بر سر جر ১‏ بے دج 


a e a s e e 


جع ج غزج ئ ‏ 255 52 22858325 2252 5 


| 


Parr JT] 


District. 


Burdwan 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditto 


Burdwan 


Ditto 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditto 


Ditts 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


Parganas. 
.. Shergafh 
Ditto 
Ditto 
ee Ditto ٠ف‎ 
ক Ditto ریب‎ 
.. Shergarh oe 
Ditto ne 
a@ Ditto হক 
es Ditto 7 
e+ Ditto پت‎ 
oe Ditto ৮৮৪ 


Mauza. 


74 Faridpur—(oontd.) 


44 #£=Parulia 


24 Madhaiganj 


83 Jhanjra 
43  Dhobani 
81 =9Basia 
38 Bansgora 
47 Kamalpur 
48  Hetedoba 
67 Bijupura 
68 Amrai 


oe” 


কক 


ee 


oe 


86 
316 

318 
161/2106 
329 

117 

16 

17 

309 

867 

161 

322 


158 (P) 
211 (P) 
527 (P) 
629 (P) 
531 (P) 
424 (P) 


2367 


1024 
1136 
1559 
1602 
1114 
1134 
1127 


94 
1978 (8) 
2032 (8) 
2034 (73) 
2035 
2037 


81 
116 
358 
360 
400 
402 
435 
437 
439 
458 
472 
479 
474 
486 
490 
491 
422/499 
123 


1341 
473/1557 


$20 (P) 
320 (P) 


158 
160 
392 
117 
128 
134 
297/474 
188 


3284 
3469 
3432 
3442/3521 


No. Name. 


Area in 
acres. 


ও eee ০ | 
abARTY, Dy. ৪০০১, 


8202 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 (Pane 1 


Pett 


raster ora eer ee ae TET EEL‏ س-ھ 


কু Mauza. ও 
District, . Parganas. , پصُٗحه]سبوسموسصجسصوصصحػجحجچ٭سبئئمبۂبسسسسحمىممسووسسسوپھ‎ Cadastral survey plot Na, Ares in 
ce, ,No, Name. 808۰. 
Burdwan .. Shergarh مم‎ «+ ,,66 Dhandabag -- 1206 7 61 


Police-Station Kanksa 


Burdwan .. Senpahari os 44 Bistopur -. 8 in 124-50 
চি 1081 is 226° 00 

1088 “6 382: 24 

1080/1188 ing 13-61 

4227 7 102 8 

4351 oe 184-60 

4352 7 215-30 

1086 ae 0:01 

4229 7-۰ 1-89 

4349 7 8:৪4 

4361 ~~ 3°34 

4347 a 172-70 

4230 7 1270 

4348 ca 329-50 

4236 a 308-50) 

4430 & ৬ 717-00 

4431 in 457° 0s 

4476 ৮৪ 15-66 

4548/4583 (P) 7 3°76 

4575 wx 10-40 

4578 -۰ 8080 

4249 ۰ 200 

4250 & 14-50 

4264 লি 22-00 

4343 -۰ 00 

4346 Pa) 135 7 60 

4232 4 2 0 

4234 ‘nis 25-40 

4238 ee 28 . ال‎ 

4239 ea 20°10 

158-10 وڈ 4241 

4243 oe 96)" 00 

4248 Pye 187-28 

4 (P) - 41-52 

4548 ; 840 

41 2 69-60 

4253 a 232-30 

4523 7 28 

4525 e« 42 : 72 

4526 a 502-00 

4545 ree 65-00 

4547 a 156-00 

4545/4587 7 600 

4526/4595 oa 152-76 

4526/4596 ee 20°00 

Ditto ee Ditto es 27 Garkilla-Kherobari oe 124 oe 70 . 00 
85 oe ] 1 7 60 

Ditto 7 Ditto oe 80 =©Kotalpukur ** 804 ৪৮ 50°80 
Ditto 4 Ditto -7 49 Saraswatiganj -. 1 “i (0). 174 
285 a 0 

290 ক 0:92 

359 7 36°00 

608/610 7 7°42 

606 - 30°75 
Ditto ». Salampur i 72 Rajkusum -. 388 7 48-77 
2721 (P) 7 6045 

1 (7) 7 6°67 

2722 : 30°03 

Ditto ee Ditto ৬৪ 91 Tjjatgan) ৬ ৬ 1765 ae 16-63 
Ditto -« Sinbhum 7 35 Basudha ** 5688 - 12-58 

০. 
۴١۱ان‎ ٣٠۰ 3:4۱۸ Faridpur 
Burdwan .» Bhergarh -۰ 87 Radhamadhabpur ike oi a Me an 
7 e+ / 

9 - 05 

12 05 

30 iz 280 

674 2 009 

948 a 8১119 

062 7 16-30 

1613 ae 36°70 

10 7 1'81 


০০০ 


Parr I] 


2 ہت 
কসাই‏ شر رر شر سے 
اث 


مس چس مس 


No. 1১780110771 6017) August 1956.—W 10181680159 
(tovernor thinks that in the case of the forest lands 
situule within the district Jalpaiguri and describ- 
ed in the schedule below, the enquiry and record 
referred to in the first paragraph of sub-section (3) 
of section 29 of the Indian Forest Act of 1927 
(XVI of 1927) will occupy such length of time as 
in the meantime to endanger the right of Gov- 
ernment ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the spower con- 
ferred by the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 
29 of the Iudian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI of 1927), 
the Governor is pleased, pending such inquiry and 
record, to declare, with effect from the date of 
the publication of this notification in the Official 
Gazette, such forest lands to be protected forests. 


THE SCHEDULE 
Description of forest land 
District Jalpaiguri, Police-station Alipurduar, 


Mauza Madhya-Haldibari, Jurisdiction List 
No.. 225. 


Cadastral survey plot No. Area in 8+ 


_ 1402 (part) 14.41 
1403 ,, 1,08 کے‎ 
1399 ,, 1.37 ee 
1400 (full) .07 
1401 ১১ 4.91 
1404 ,, 2.33 
1411 ৯ ۱ 4.19 
1410 », 1.41 
8409 » 5.75 
1408 ,, 10.48 
1405 _,, 15.56 
1406 », .60 
1407 », .30 
62.46 


District Jalpaiguri,  Police-station Alipurduar, 
Mauza Loaknathpur, Jurisdiction List No. 137.. 


Area in acros. 
Graying Block No, X XVII. 17.48 


By order of the Governor, 
R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


RIED 


Veterinary 
NOTIFICATION. 


No. 8826Vety.—Ilth August 1956.—Shri 
Sumarendra Nath Barman, Sub-Deputy Magis- 
trate and Sub-Deputy Collector, now acting as 
Secretary-cum-Treasurer, Bengal Veterinary 
College, has been granted earned leave for thirty 
days with effect from 2nd August 1956 under 
rule 167(ii) of West Bengal Service Rules, Part 1. 


By order of the Governor, 


R. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


SORES 


Miscellaneous 
NOTIFICATION 
No. 9094 Mise.—20th August 1956.—The Gov- 

ernor is pleased to extend from Ist September 
1956 until further orders the term of appointment 
of Shri Nibar Ranjan Das Gupia as Officer on 
Spevial Duty and Asaistant Secretary (ea ¢ show), 
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and  Torests 
Jepartment. 


By order of the Governor, 


Rh. GANGULI, Dy. Secy. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 293 


DEPARTMENT OF CO-OPERATION 
Co-operation 
NOTIFICATIONS. 


No, 2744Co-op. /8A-27/56.—11th August 1956.—~ 
In exercise of the power conferred by section 9 of 
the Bengal Co-operative Societies Act, 1940, the 
(governor is pleased to appoint, until further 
orders, Shri Mani Lal Banerjee, to assist the 
Registrar of Co-vperative Societies, West Bengal, 
with effect from the 9156 July 1956 নন 
and to direct that while holding such appoint- 


‘ment, he shall be designated as Joyt Registrar of 


Co-operative Societies, West Bengal (64 office), 


No. 2745Co-op. /8A-27/56.—11th August 1956.—~ _ 
In exercise of the power conferred by clause (a) of | 
section 10 of the Bengal Co-operative Societies ۔‎ 
Act, 1940, the Governor is pleased to confer upon 
Shri Mani Lal Banerjee, Joint Registrar of Co- — 


 bperative Societies, West Bengal (er officio), all | 


the powers and impose wpon him all the duties 
entrusted to the Registrar of Co-operative Socie- 
ties, West Bengal, by or under the said Act, 
other than those specitied in the second schedule 
to the suid Act. Shri Banerjee shall exercise all 
his powers and perform all his duties under the 
৪৪10 Act, in addition to his duties as the Joint 
Director of Industries, West Bengal. 


By order of the Governor, © 
A. MITRA, Secy. 


Veal‏ ۹غ و 
DIRECTORATE OF FISHERIES‏ 


প্রজাপন। 
NOTIFICATION 


নং ই২৪৩৫।--২০এ আগস্ট ১৯৫৬।-সহ-আ'ধকর্তা শ্রী এন, কে, 
tame পশ্চিমবঙ্গাশয় جج‎ নিয়মাবপা: (ST খণ্ড) ১৬৮৫১) 
সংখ্যক CATA ১৯৫৬ সালের ৬ই আগস্ট হইভে ১৪ই আগস্ট 
یمم‎ নয় iad আর্জত ০ প্রদত্ত “eels এই a সাত ےن‎ 
Shey ও ১৫ই আগস্ট এর ছুটি ভোগ Baa: অনবাঞত দেওয়া হইল। 


ce, সি, wet, ہے‎ 

۱ “ed 1۱ 
No, F.2435.—20th August 1956.—Shri N. 0, 
Chowdhury, Assistant Director of Fisheries, 18 
granted earned leave for nine days from 6th 
August 1956 to 14th August 1956 with permission 
to prefix Sunday, the bth August 1956 and affix 
Wednesday, the 15th August 1956, under 
rule 16807) of West Bengal Service Rules, Part I. 


K. 0. SAHA, Director. 


REFUGEE RELIEF AND REHABILITATION 
DEPARTMENT 


Establishment 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No, 104761001۴. — 20th August 1956. — The 
(Governor is pleased to appoint Shri Bidhau Ranjan 
(thosh, son of late Ashita Ranjan Ghosh, tempo- 
rarily as Administrator, Refugee Township at 
Mayeshpur in the district of Nadia, with effect 
from the date on which he assumes charge for the 
het for a period of six months, or until further 
00165, : 


This cancela this department notification 


No. 01097115765 dated 29th May 1956, 


By order of the Governor, _ 


K. CHAKRABARTY, Dy. Secy. 


THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, 


a 7‏ 
এত «‏ مہ eT a‏ وس جح و ج ریچ سن یی ہبہ ربچ وی سے رم سد یہ جب بت کیج স্কিপ‏ 


No. LOT41 Estt.—17th August 1956. In exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 24 of the Bengal 
Co-operative Societies Act, 1940, the Governor is 
pleased to extend the term of deputation ০01 
Shri Kantida Kanta Roy, Rehabilitation Officer, 
Jalpaiguri, to the services of Molhitnagar Co- 
operative Multipurpose Society, Ltd., and 
Fatapukuri Co-operative Society, Ltd., in the dis- 
trict of Jalpaiguri, to act, in addition to his own 
duties, as the Executive Officer of the said Co- 
operative Societies for a further period up to 31st 
August 1956, on the same terms and conditions as 
laid down in this department notification 
No, 8961 Estt., dated 11th August 1956. | 


By order of the Governor, 
B. N. SEN, Dy. Secy. 


ওহি 


' NOTIFICATION 


No. 10844Estt.—23rd August 1956.—The Gover- 
nor is pleased to appoint Shri P. K. Guha Thakurta, 
Assistant Director (Statistical), Food, Relief and 
Supphes (Food) Department, temporarily as 
Statistical Officer in the Refugee Relief and 
Rehabilitation Directorate with effect from the date 
on which he assumes charge of the post until 
further orders. ۱ 


By order of the Governor, 


1, P. BARUA, Dy. Secy. 


EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 


Education 


NOTIFICATIONS 


No. 8305Edn. /9B-16/56.—6th August 1956.— 
In exercise of the power conferred by section 5 of 
the West Bengal District School Boards Act, 1947 
(West Bengal Act IV of 1947), read with section 7 
of that Act, the Governor has heen pleased to make 
the following further amendment in paragraph 2 
of this department notification No. 186Edn., dated 
the 17th January 1948, as published at page 2۰ 
Part I of the Calcutta Gazette of the 29th January 
1948, fixing the term of office of the members of 
the District School Board of West Dinajpur, as 
subsequently amended, namely :— 


Amendment 


In paragraph 2 of the said wvtifieation, for the 
words and figures ‘30th June 1956” substitute the 
words and figures “14th July 1056”. 

This notification shall be deemed to have effect 
and to have always had effect on and from the 3Uth 


June 1956. 


Howrah. — No,  8309Edn. /4A-132/56. — 7th 


August 1956.—Shri Sarat Chandra (Ganguly, 
Associate Lecturer in Mathematics, Bengal 


Engineering College in the West Bengal General 
Service, is appointed to act as Lecturer in the 
subject in that college and in the same service, with 
effect from the date on which he assumes the duties 
of the post. 


Howrah. — No.  8310Edn. /4A-182/56. — 7th 
August 1956.—Shri Santosh Kumar  Bhatta- 
charyya, Lecturer in Civil Engineering, Bengal 
Engineering College in the West Bengal General 
Service@ ja appointed to be Lecturer in Civil 
Engineering (Surveying), in the Mining Engineer- 
mg Department in that college, with effect from 
the date on which he joing the post. © 


Pp ee nt eh ' 
i পর ہے‎ উপ সত লা جوا‎ 


‘that 


AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 


1 
نس اج ارت وا سے تس سی টিক না লা‏ تد سے کے یتسد جس سید سے ید ےجرد TIT‏ 


١۷۷۲۵. — No. 83likdu. /4A-182/56. — 7th 


August 1966.—Shri Anil Kumar Chaudhuri, 
Demonstrator in Applied Mechanies, Bengal 
Engineering College, is appointed to act as 


Lecturer in the subject in that college and in the 
West Bengal General Service, with effect trom the 
date on which he assumes the duties of the post. 


Howrah. — No. 8313Kdn./4A-182/56. — 7th 
August 1956.—Shri Krishna Nath Banerjee, 
Demonstrator in Mathematics, Bengal Hugineer- 
ing College, is appointed to act as Associate 
Lecturer in the subject in that college and in the 
West Bengal General Service, with effect from the 
date on which he assumes the duties of the post, 
vice Shri A. N. Dutta, oy deputation. 


Howrah.—No. 8317Edn. /4A-120/55 /56.—7th 
August 1956.—Dr. Sankar Sebak Boral, D.Sc., is 
appointed to act as Assistant Professor of 
Physics, Bengal Engineering College in the West 
Bengal (feneral Service, with effect from the date 
01) which he joins the post, vice Dr. H. Rakshit, 
on deputation. 


Howrah. — No. 337Kdn. /4A-1382/56, — th 
August 1956.—Shri Manindra Mitra, Demonstra- 
tor in Mathematics, Bengal Engineering College, 
1৭ appointed to act as Lecturer in the subject in 
college and in the West Bengal Ceneral 
Service, with effect from the date on which he 
assumes the duties of the post. 


Howrah.—No. 8338Edn.—7th August 1956.— 
Shri Chiranjib Kumar Sarkar is appointed to act 
as Lecturer in Civil Engineering, Bengal 
Engineering College in the West Bengal General 
Service, with effect from the date on which he 
joins the post, vice Shri Santosh Kumar 
Bhattacharyya, transferred. 


By order of the téovernor, 
1), M. SEN, Secy. 


پی سس i EAN‏ و ید ہیں 


ORDERS AND NOTIFICATIONS BY THE 
HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA AND THE 
CHIEF JUSTI-E 


Appellate Side 


Appointments and Transfers 


Howrah.—No. 5008A.—1l1th August 1956.—Shri 
Kashi Nath Bakshi, Probationary Munsif under 
training at Howrah (Sadar), is appointed 
temporarily to be a Munsif in the same district to 
be ordinarily stationed at Amta during the absence 
on leave of Shri Bimalendra Nath Maitra. 


Leave 


Howrah.—No. 5317A.—24th August 1956.—Shn 
Jagadish Chandra Chakrabatti, Munsif, Howrah 
(Sadar), is allowed earned leave under rule 171 (5) 
of the West Bengal Service Rules, Part TI, for 
fifteen duys from the 6th to 20th Auguat 1956. 


Malda.—No. 532)A.—24th August 1956.-—Shn 
Niranjan Sarkar, Munaif, Malda, is allowed earnec 
leave under rule 171 (a) of the West Bengal Service 
Rules, Part I, for twenty days from the J 8th 
August 1956 to the lst September 1956. 


K, C, SEN, Registro 


Parr J] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 9299 


নিট ہے ہے و وی 9ظ دا مھا‎ eee seen ee Bee আজে ক তি کے‎ SESE a yw Eee Sees নি ভিত قوج‎ ভিউ رے‎ 2 


ORDERS BY C@MMISSIONERS OF DIVISIONS 


Burdwan Division--:. chinsura 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MAGISTRATE, BIRBHUM. 


No. 7621JG.—10th August 1956.—It is hereby notified for general information that in the Union Board of the 
district of Birbhum specified in column 1 of the table below, the person named in column 2 of the eaid table has been 
duly elected to be a member of that Union Board from the ward specified against him under the provisions of the law 
specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the table— 


Name of person and ward for which 
elected. 


Ward No. |. 

Labpur Union Board, police-station Shri Rabindra Nath Saha of Labpur (vice Under provision of section 13 of 
Labpur, Sadar —_ subdivision, Shri Bholanath Dutta removed), the Village Self-Government 
Birbhum. Act, 1919, Act V of 1919. 

[ILLEGIBLE], 
for District Magistrate. 


Name of Union Board, police-station 


Elected and provision of law 
and subdivision. 


under which elected. 


OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT MAGISTRATE, BANKURA 


Dated Bankura, the 29th May 1956 
It is hereby notified for general information :— 


Name of person and from Elected and provision of the 
which elected. _ law under which elected... 


Gangajalghati Union Board, police- Ward No, ‘--Shri Ramrup Karmaker .. The election of members notified 
station Gangajalghati, Sadar sub- in Calcutta Gazette, dated 19th 
_ division, district Bankura. January 1956, in this ward 
was set aside on 27th December 
1955. 

Elected under the provision of 
_ the Bengal Village Self-Gov- 
ernment Act, 1919, section 
6(2) and section 101 and the 
rules made thereunder on re- 

election. 


J, 0. SEN GUPTA, 
District Magistrate. 


Name of Union Board, police-station 
| and subdivision. 


It is notified for General information that the following appointments to the Union Bench and 
Court have been made:— 
No, and date of notifica- Board to whioh elected with Name. 


tion assigned by the polico-station, subdivision and 
(sauing authorities. district. 


Section of law and particulara Name of authority 
of Government order by which and dealgnation, 
power is delegated to issuing 
authority. 


No. 1020L.9.-G., dated Mejhia union board, polico-sta- (1) Shri Sibnarayan Bandopadhaya (alias Sections 65 and 78 of the Ben- B. گار‎ Commia- 
اون ریا‎ 


ugus 5 tion Mejhia, Sadar subdivi- akir Babu), Preaident, Shri Ramoi- gal Village Self-Government 
সি 1966 aion, দাশ Bankura. baa Marwari (8) Shri Bijoynath Pau) Act, 107 
and (4) Shri Ushapat! Bhattacharyya 
(alias Chanpal.). 
۱ )(207.3.-0., dated Pilla union board, police-station Shri Byomkesh Bhattacharyya In place of Under sections 65 and 78 of the Ditto. 
00-۰ ots 1956. Purbasthali, Kalna subdivi- Shri Baidyanath Chakravorty, deceased. Bengal Village Solf-Govern- 


sion, district Burdwan. 
Village Self-Government Act. 


OLA NEAL ED 


No, 1687M.—14th August 1956.—In aceordance 
with section 50 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 
(Bengal Act XV of 1982), it is hereby nctified for 
general information that the Commissioners of 
Bankura Municipality in the district of Renkura 
at a special ineeting held on 18th July 1956. duly 
elected Shri Nagendra Nath Mukherjee as Vice- 
Chairman of the Municipality in place of Shni 
Beni Prasad Khandelwal resigned. 


No. 24023.G.—18th August 1966.—In accord- 
ance with the provisions of rule 56(1) of Chapter 
IV of the Bengal Jail Code, Voluine I, Seventh 
Edition, I hereby appoint the following یر‎ 
men to tbe دی تہ‎ visitors of the Serampore 
and Arambagh Sub-Jails, respectively, in the dis- 
trict of Hooghly, for a period cf one year with 
cect from the date of this notification :— 


Serampore Sub-Jail 
Shri Jitendra Nath Lahiri, M.L.A. 

Arambagh Sub-Jail 
Shri Radha Krishna Pal, M.U.A. 


No. 2404J.G.—15th August 1956.—In accord- 
ance with the provisions of rule 56(1) of Chapter 
TV of the Bengal Jail Code, Volume I, Seventh 
Edition, I hereby appoint the following gentle- 
men to be non-official visitors of the Burdwan Dis- 
trict Jail in the district of Burdwan for a period 
of one year with effect from the date of this noti- 
fication :— 


Burdwan District Vail 
(1) Shri Benoy Krishna Chowdhury, M.L.A. 
زی‎ Shri Md. 11088811), M.U.A. 


No. 24063.G.—18th. August 1956.-—In accord- 
ance with the provisions of rule 9063) of Chapter 
1٦ of the Bengal Jail Code, Volume I, Seventh 
Edition, I hereby appoint the following ladies 
and gentlemen to be non-official visitora in the 
Jail and Sub-Jails named below in the district of 


3296 | THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1966 


নি পপ 1 আআ সত ee ৯ পপ এস তত a ele a ee لا اق‎ শশা আস 
সস পপ এপ sm শপ শন teen 0ے کے چا داد‎ orate - সী — , 


Burdwan for a period of two years with effect 
from the date of this notification :— 
Burdwan District Jail 
(1) Shri Syed Hazi Badrudduza. 
(2) Shri Sibmohon Bose, M.A. 
(3) Shri Narayan Chowdhury, M.A. 
(4) Dr. S. K. Panja. 


Katwa Sub-dail 
(1) Shri Tarapada Chowdhury, M.A., B.L. 
(9) Sm. Aparajita Ganguly, B.A., B.T. 


Kalna Sub-Jail 


(1) Shri Sachindra Nath Sinha Roy, leader, 
Kalna. 


(2) Sm. Sucharita Pal. 


Asansol Sub.Jail 
(1) Shri H. P. Goenka, Raniganj. 
(2) Sm. Taru Ghosh. 


بر سے سے 


FORM “H” 


NOTICE 


The 14th August 1956 
Whereas the property specified in the schedule 


hereto annexed was requisitioned by the order ‘of | 


the District Magistrate No. 55D.I., dated 8th 
June 1943, with effect from Ist February 1943, 
until further orders of the Central Government; 


And whereas the Central Government have 
decided that the said property shall be released 
from requisition ; | 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (2) of section 6 of the Requisition- 
ing and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 
1962 (No. XXX of 1952), I, Shri A. K. Sen, 
LA.S., District Magistrate, being competent 
authority under the said Act, have specified 
Shri Umesh Mondal, as the person to whom 
possession of the said property shall be given; 


And whereas the said Shri Umesh Mondal can- 
not be found and has no agent or other pee 
empowered to accept delivery on his behalf; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by sub-section (4) of section 6 of the said 
Act, I, Shri A. K. Sen, I.A.S., District Magis- 
trate, do hereby declare that the said property is 
released from requisition: 


ھا 


Schedule 
Cadastral 
Name of mauza. survey Area. Name of the owner. 
plot No. (acres.) 

Sarishpur, Juria- 1381 10ء‎ Umesh Mondol, son of 
diction list | Nimai Mondal, ٤ 
No. 44, police Dignala, 
station dal, 
district Burdwan 


A. K. SEN, Collector. 


“ 


৫ Presidency 10119101810] 


No. 1534M.—17th August 1956.—It is hereby 
notified under section 50 of the Bengal Municipal 
Act, 19382 (Bengal Act XV _ of 1982), that 
Shri Arunendu Narain Koy has been duly elected 
Chairman of the Kandi Municipality in the dis- 
trict of Murshidabad on 8th May 1956. 


No. 1620R.G.—l17th August 1966.—Shri Ram 
Prosad Chakravarti, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation) and Circle 
Officer, Kaliaganj, West Dinajpur, is transferred 
to the Sadar subdivision of the 24-Parganas district 
and is appointed as Circle Officer, Sonarpur, vice 


Shri R. K. Mitra, Circle Officer, Sonarpur, 
transferred. 
No. 1623R.G.—17th August 1956.—Shri 


Ranendra Kumar Mitra, Sub-Deputy Collector and 
Cirele Officer, Sonarpur, 24-Parganas, is trans- 


ferred to the Bongaon subdivision of that district 


and is appointed as Circle Officer, Bongaon, vice 
Shri Nalinaksha Mondal, Circle Officer, Bonguaon, 
transferred. 


No. 1626R.G.—lith August 1956.—Shn 
Nalinaksha Mondal, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation) and Circle 
Officer, Bongaon, 24-Parganas, is transferred to the 
Diamond Harbour subdivision of that district and 
is appointed as Circle Officer, Mathurapur, vice 


. Shri Niroj Kanti Ghosh, Circle Officer, Mathura- 


pore, transferred. 


This cancels this office notification No. 291R.G., 
dated 14th February 1956, appointing 
Shri Jagadish Chandra Mukherjee, temporary Sub- 
Deputy Collector, as Circle Officer, Mathurapur. 


No. 1629R.G.—17th August 1956.—Shri Niroj 
Kanti Ghosh, Sub-Deputy Collector and Circle 
Officer, Mathurapur, Diamond Harbour, 
24-Parganas, is transferred to the Raiganj sub- 
division of the West Dinajpur district and is 


appointed as Circle Officer, Kaliaganj, vice Shri 


am Prosad Chakravarti, Circle Officer, Kaliaganj, 
transferred. 

This cancels this office notification No. 3542R.G., 
dated 2188 December 1955, posting him to the 
Jalpaiguri district.. | 


K. C. BASAK, Commissioner. 


Presidency Division—Jalpaiguri 

No. 1604R.G:—16th August 1956.—Shti Santosh 
Kumar Mitra, Sub-Deputy Collector (08 
probation), West Dinajpur, is granted earned leave 


for twelve days from 10th May 1956 to 218 May 


1956, under rule I167(ii) of the West Bengal 
Service Rules, Part I. 


No. 11663.—20th August 1956.—Under 006 
provision of rule 56(1) of the Bengal Jail Code, 
volume I, I, with the previous approval of Gov- 
ernment, appoint Shri Majiruddin Ahmed, 
M..A., to be a non-official visitor of the Cooch 
Behar District Jail for a period of one year with 
effect from the date of this notification. 


No. 1168J.—20th August 1956.—Under the 
provision of rule 56(2) of the Bengal Jail Code, 
volume I, I, with the previous approval of Gov- 
ernment, appoint the following persons to be non- 
official visitors of the Kurseong Sub-Jail in the 
district of Darjeeling for a rae of two years with 
effect from the date of this notification سس‎ 


(1) Mrs. 8. D. Khati. 
(2) Dr. A. C. Guha. 
(3) Shri D. B. Chhetri. 
(4) Shri Dorjey Phinjo. 


No. 1651R.G.—238rd August 1956.—Shri+Nirmal 
Kumar Pal Chaudhuri, Sub-Deputy Magistrate and 
Sub-Deputy Collector (on probation), Jalpaiguri, 
is transferred temporarily to the Alipur-Duarsg sub- 
division of that district and is appointed as Circle 
Officer, Folakata, vice Shri Saradindu Sen, Circle 
Officer, Falakata, transferred. 


It is hereby notified for general information ;— 


No, and date of notif- 00100 board to which elected 
cation assigued by the with polloe-station, subdivision 
Issuing Authority. and district. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 297 


সী পপ 976‏ شس سس یں 


= جج جج ںا 


No. 16538R.G. — 28rd August 1956. — Shri 


Saradindu Sen, Circle Officer, Falakata, Alipur- 
Duars, Jalpaiguri, is transferred to the Sadar 
Station of that district on genera] duties. 


K. C, BASAK, Commissioner. 


Names. Section of law and particulars Name of اوھ(‎ 
of Government order by which authorlt; and desig 
power is delegated to issuing পি 
authority. 


Election to Union Board 
No,3688J.M., dated 11th Jalalpur Union Board, police- Ward No. 1i—Shri Aljuddin Ahmed, son Section 18 of the Bengal Village Shri 8. C. Basu, I.A.8., 
1956. 8৯0০ ardar of Selampur, 919 District Magis- 


August 1966 n Kaliachak, Sadar Sub- أ٠‎ late Meherdi 0 Belf.Government Act, 1 
division, district Malda. police-station Kallachak, (Act V of 1919). trate, Malda, 
KErishvapur Union Board, Ward No. I—Shri نت‎ Biswas, son of Ditto 8 aa Ditto. 
না Kaliachak, Sadar late Abdur Rahim Biswas of Krishnapur, 
ubdiviaion, district Malda. police-station Kaliachak. 
Gopalganj Union Board, polices Ward No. I—Sekandar Biswas, son of Hazi Ditto a 5 ۱ 
চবির পাপা Bader Sub- রি 


division, Ustrict Malda. 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, 
۸0۹ھ۳٦‎ JALPAICURI 


ORDERS 


The 10th August 1956 


In supersession of all previous orders and in 
exercising the power conferred by paragraph 16 
of the West Bengal Soft Coke Distribution Order, 
1947, delegated to me by the Director of Consumer 
Goods, West Bengal, by his order No. XITA(95) / 
48/5647(F.U.), dated the 9th June 1953, I, 
Shri 3. B. Ray, I.A.S., Deputy Commissioner, 
Jalpaiguri, hereby refix the maximum wholesale 
and retail prices of soft coke in Jalpaiguri 
Municipal Town area as per schedule below. 


These rates will be in force with immediate 
effect in respect of stocks booked on or after the 
Sth July 1956 from loading stations: 


Schedule 


Wholesale rate per maund—Rs. 2-1 (Rupees 
two and anna one only) excluding sales tax. 


Retail rate per maund—Rs, 2-8 (Rupees two 
and annas eight only) including sales tax. 


' OFFI-E OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, WEST BENGAL 


ORDERS 


No. E/39008C.T. /2E-10/55-56.—7th August 
1956.—-Shri B. 0٥ Mitra, I.R.S., Income-tax 
Officer, Foreign Section, also holding the charge of 
Ist Additional Income-tax Officer of the same dis- 
trict, is, with immediate effect and in addition to 

18 own duties, posted to hold the charge of 2nd 
Additional Income-tax Officer, Foreign Section, 
reliewing Shri K, C. Sanyal, 3rd Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District II(2), of this Addi- 
tional charge. 


No. /40997C.T./2H-1/56-57.—l4th August 
1956.—Shri V. V. .8ھ‎ Saatry, 10৮8 12th Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, Companies Tistrict I, 
is. with immediate effect and in addition 00 his 
own duties, appointed to hold the charge of i3th 
Additional Income-tax Officer, Companies District 
, vice Shri Amaresh Bagchi transferred. ۱ 

On relief, Shri Amaresh Bagchi, 18th Addi- 
tional Income-tax Officer, Companies District I, 
is tranaferred and posted ag drd Additional Income- 
tax Officer, Estate Duty-cum-Tucome-tas Circle. 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Commissioner. 


Usman of Malatipur,  police-station 
Kailachak. 


The 9th August 1956 


In exercise of the power conferred by para- 
graph 16 of the West Bengal Soft Coke Distribu- 
tion Order, 1947, delegated to me by the Director 
of Consumer Goods, West Bengal, by his order 
No. XITA(95)/48/5647(F.U.), dated the 9th June 
1953, I, Shri S. B. Ray, I.4.S., Deputy Commis- 
sioner, Jalpaiguri, hereby fix the retail price of 
soft coke in Banarhat, Dhupguri police-station of 
4 Sadar subdivision, Jalpaiguri, as per schedule 

elow. 


The rate will be in force with immediate effect 
in respert of the stock covered by the arrival 
report, dated 16th July 1956, submitted by 
Mahabir & Co., Banarhat: 


Schedule 


Retail rate per maund—Rs. 2-3 (Rupees two 
and annas three only). | 


S. B. RAY, Dy. Commissioner. 


OFFIC OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTA: 
ORDERS 

No. Afe 39283C.T, /2E/161/54-55.—1L0th August 
1956.—In swpersession of this oifce order 
No. A/cs.26473C.T./26/151/54-55, dated 2nd 
July 1956, Shri .کا‎ M. Rath, I.R.S., Additional 
Income-tax Officer, District I(2), Calcutta [now 


Additional Income-tax Officer, District _I'V(2), 
Calcutta], is allowed, under the Revised 
Leave Rules, 19388, earned leave for 


sixteen days with effect from [8th June 1956. to 
3rd July 1956 with permission to prefix Sunday, 
the 17th June 1956, to the leave. 

It is certified that the officer was likely to 
return, on *#@he expiry of his leave, to the pest 
from which he proceeded on leave or io 2 post 
carrying similar rates of allowances. 


No. E/440900.T. /2E-1/56-57.—21st August 
1956.—Shri A. B. M. Saleh. Income-tax Officer, 
Special Circle I], is transferred and posted as 4th 
Additional Income-tax Officer, Companies Dia- 
trict II, vice Shri V. Chidambaram, 1.5.8 

On relief, Shri V. Chidambaram, 4th Addi- 
tiomal Income-tax Officer, Companies District IT, 
is posted as Ist Additional Income-tax Officer of 


3298 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


the same Distriet, vice Shri T. Bellan, I.R.&., 
transferred, 


On relief, Shri T. Bellan, Ist Additional 
Income-tax Officer, Companies District II, 8 
transferred und posted as Charge Income-tux 


Officer, Companies District IV, vice Shri P. L. 
Malhotra, I.R.S., promoted as Assistant Commis- 
sioner, 


Shri M. A. Kasem, I.R.S., 38rd Additional 
Tnucome-tax Officer, Companies District II, is, in 
addition to his own' duties and until further ciders, 
appointed to hold charge of Income-tax (Officer, 
Companies District II, vice Shri A. C. Jain, 
I.R.S., promoted as Assistant Commissioner. 


The above orders should take effect from the 
afternoon of. dist August 1956. 


S. 1১, JAIN, Commissioner. 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF 
INCOME-TAX (CENTRAL), CALCUTTA: 


ORDER 


No. 4984A/C.T.C. /2E-18/55-56.—7th August 
1956.—-It is hereby motified that.the Income-tax 
Office, Central Circle VITI A, Calcutta,-ts abolish- 
ed with effect from the 3th August 1956. 


V.S. K. D. NADAR, Commissioner. 


{Parr 1 


ORDERS BY THE CONTROLLER OF ESTATE 
DUTY, WEST BENGAL 


ESTATE DUTY 
The 14th August 1956 


In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) 
of rule 3 of the Estate Duty Rules, 1953, I hereky 
direct that an Assistant Controller of- Estates Duty, 
who is an Income-tax Officer of Class II Service, 
attached to the Income-tax Circles mentioned in 
column 2 of the schedule below, shall, when he 
finds that the priucipal value of the estate in any 
case pending before him exceeds or is likely to 
exceed Rs. 14 lakhs but does not exceed Rs. 5 
lakhs, transfer the case to the Assistant Controller 
of Estate Duty, who is an Income-tax Officer of 
Class I Service, attached to the Circle mentioned 
in column 3 of the schedule: 


Schedule 
ges Name of the Circle. Name of the Circle. 
0 
1. "2, 3. 


(1) Estate Duty-cum-Income- Estate Duty-cum-Income- 
tax Circle (Mofussil), tax Circle, Calcutta. 
Calcutta. 


_ (2) Estate Duty-cum-Income Estate Duty-cum-Income- 


tax Circle, Jalpaiguri. tax Circle, Calcutta. 


V. V. SUBRAMANIAN, Controller. 


Part I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90) 1956 8299 


ot ee 
LABOUR DEPARTM ENT. 
ORDER 


” 

No. 3648Dis./D/100-1138/55.—18th August 1956.—Whereas under ‘the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No; 4697Dis./D/ 
10L-113/55, dated the 27th Septefiber F955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Victery Iron Works, Behares Road, Salkia, Howrah and their 
workmen reptesented by Iron & Steel Workmen's Union, 172 Benares Road, 
Salkia, Howrah, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was 
referred for adjudication to the Third Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Third Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; . 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the. 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the (Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Victory Iron Works, Benayes 
Road, Salkia, Howrah and their workmen represented by Iron & Steel 
Workmen's Union, 172 Benares Road, Salkia, Howrah. 


BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT ; 
Suri J. N. MAITRA, Judge, Third Industral Tribunal. 


For the Umon: Surat KALI CHAKRAVARTI, Vice-President. 
For the Company: Strr1 P. R. MUKHERJI, Pleader. 


AWARD 


1. By order No. 4697Dis./1D/10L-113/55, dated the 27th Septentber 
1955, the Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, referred 
under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the industrial dispute 
between Victory Tron Works, Benares Road, Salkia, Howrah and their 
workmen represented by Iron & Steel Workmen’s Union, 172 Benares 
Road, Salkia, Howrah, regarding the matters specified in the schedule, to 
the Third Industrial Tribunal constituted under section 7 of the Industrial 
J)isputes Act, 1947, by notification No. 592Dis.//12L-5/52, dated the 281 _ 
February 1953, for adjudication. 


2. After usual summons the parties entered appearance and filed their 
written atatements, The pleadings were completed on 19th December 1955. 
The parties were thereafter directed to file their lists of documents. Then 
after adjournments the case was taken up for hearing., 


3. The matters of dispute as stated in the schedule to the Order of 
Reference are as follows: — 


(1) Pay and Dearness Allowance. 
(2) Leave. 7 
(3) If Joykissen, Bhaglu and Chhotolal should be made permanent? 


DECISION 


Lssues Nos, 1 to 3.—The parties filed a joint petition of compromise 
relating to the issues and prayed for an award in terms thereof. Heard 
the representatives of both sides. The terms are fair. I, therefore, give 


3300 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 = [Parr I 


ee 
০০০ 


effect to the compromise and 1 make my award accordingly, The petition 
of compromise is made a part of this award. 


Digtated and corrected by me. 
' J. MAITRA, 


Judge. 
JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 


Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


ANNEXURE ۱ 
BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST" BENGAL, 
PRESENT : 
J. N. MAITRA, Esea., District Judge. 
Re: Industrial Dispute of Mesars. 
Victory Iron Works, Old Benares Road, 
Bamungachi, Howrah, 
And 
Their workmen represented by Iron & 
Steel Workmen’s Union, Kaibartapara 
Lane, Howrah. 
The Joint petition of the abovenamed“ 
parties 
Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH— 
1. That the above industrial dispute is settled amicably between the 
parties as per annexed terms. 
2. That the Tribunal be pleased to pass an award embodying the said 
terms which will form a part 01 the award. 
3. That the award will be effective from the Ist August 1956. 


SATYEN DAS, Jt. Secretary. 
KALIDAS CHAKRAVARTY, Vice-President, 
for Iron & Steel Workmen’s Union. 


Dated Calcutta, the 31st July 1956. 


The 31st July 1956. 


For the Company, 
PANCHUGOPAL SINGH, 
Manager. 
JITENDRA NATH MAITRA, 
Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 


ANNEXURE 
BEFORE THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
J. N. MAITRA, Esoa., District Judye. 


Fe: Industrial Dispute of Mesars. 
Victory Tron Works, Old Benarés Road, 
Bamangachi, Howrah, 

And 
Their workmen represented by Iron & 
Steel Workmen’s Union, Kaibartapara 
Lane, Howrah, 


ll 


The 3lst July 1956. 


Parr 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 330] 


Terms of settlement 


1. That the Issue No. 1: Pay and dearness allowance be settled as 
follows :— 


eee ee ہد ہہ‎ 
সপ সস = = 


চা — = میں‎ 


(2) Time-rated male workers at Its. 2-4 annas including dearness 
allowance for each working day, 


(b) That female workers at Ks. 2 including dearness allowance for 
each working day, 


(c) That piece-raters’ working day wage remains same and that they 
tn addition should get only 7 annas for each day when there 
will be no casting work for them, provided on that day they 
attend muster seit 


2. Regarding Issue No. 2: 189৮9, the following leave will be 
allowed :— i 
(1) Ten days’ festival holidays per year. 
(2) Statutory leave under Factories Act. ' 
Regarding Sick leave, State Insurance Act will be followed. 
3. Issue No. 3 1s not pressed. 


4. Existing privileges be maintained. 


SATYEN DAS, Jt: Selretary. 
KALIDAS CHAKRAVARTY, Vice-President, 
For lron & Steel Workmen’s Union. 


Valeutta, the 919 July 1956. 
٠ Yor the Company, 
PANCHUGOPAL SINGH, 


Manager. 


JITENDRA NATH MATTRA, 


Judge, Third Industrial Tribunal. 
The 3186 July 0۰ 


By order of the Governor, 
D.8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 3558Dis. /D/11L-42/55.—14th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 628])is./D/ 
1۱11-42/55, dated the 16th February 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Snow White Food Products Co., Lid., Foreshare Road, Howrah (Head 
Office: 18 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta) and their workers represented by 
Snow White Food Products Employees’ Union, 3/1 Kali Banerji Lane, 
Howrah, regarding the matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred 
for adjudication to the First Industrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the said First [Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Art, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


3302 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 


ee 
ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Snow White Food © 
Products Co., Ltd., Foreshore Road, Howrah (Head Office: 18 Netaji 
Subhas Road, Calcutta) and their workers represented by Snow White 
Food Products Employees’ Union, 3/1 Kali Banerjee Lane, Howrah 
(case No. VIII-48 of 1955), 


BEFORE THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAI, 
PRESENT: 
Smarr M, 0. BANERJI, District Judge (Retd.), Judge, First Industrial 


Tribunal. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, by order 
No. 628Dis./D/117-42/55, dated 16th February 1955, referred, under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Indutsrial Disputes Act, 1947 (X1V of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between Messrs. Snow White Food Products Co., Ltd., 
Foreshore Road, Howrah (Head Office: 18 Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta) 
and their workers represented by Snow White Food Products Employees’ 
Union, 3/1 Kali Banerjee Lane, Howrah, regarding the matter specified in 
the following schedule to this Tribunal for adjudication : 


Schedule. 
(1) Production bonus. 


Notices were issued on both parties, who filed written statements setting 
forth their respective cases. 


The pleadings of the parties will be discussed at the decision of the issue. 
The appearances for the parties were as follows: 
For the Union: Shri Shib Nath Banerji, President, and Shri H. L. Roy, 


Pleader. 


For the Company: Shri 8. C. Sen, Advocate. 
The issue that falls for decision is as mentioned in the order of refer- 


ence and is as follows: 
issue 


(1) Production bonus. 


AWARD 
DECISIONS 


The Company is the manufacturer of hydrogenated vegetable product, 
commonly known as ‘‘Vanaspati’’. ا1‎ started production in 1940. The 
processes in the manufacture are as follows: (1) Vegetable oil is refined; 
(2) thereupon it is hydrogenated; (3) then it is again refined; (4) then 
deodorised; and (5) thereafter the same is filled in tins. In 19438, the 
Company introduced a production bonus for payment exclusively to some 
of the mistries, who took part in the actual manufacture of the product. It 
will appear from Ext. D, being a list of the categories of workmen employed 
in the industry, that there are in all 130 workmen inasmany as 19 categories. 
In all these, the men in categories 1 to 12 numbering 26 are skilled workers 
and mistries, those in categories 13 to 16 numbering 30 are semi-skilled 
workers and those in categories 17 to 19 numbering 74 are unskilled workers. 
It is the admitted case of both parties that production bonus when introduc- 
ed was paid to only 14 men covered by the categories 1 to 6 in Ext. D. The 
hydrogenation of the oil is done in the machine at the rate of 5 tons of the 
product per charge. The production departments work for full 24 hours in 


Part (( THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 6 3303 
three “shifts. The normal output in 24 hours has been fixed at 5 charges 
giving out 25 tons and for each extra charge of 5 tons in the course of the 
sume 24 hours a bonus of Rs. 10 was agreed tp be paid to the 14 men in the 
category Nos. | to 5 in 1786, D. The production bonus of Rs. 10 per day 
for an extra charge of 5 tons was earned since 1943. This rate was 
increased to Rs. 15 in September 1948, and was further increased to Rs. 17 
in April 1950. Tn June 1958, the production bonus was increased {from 
Rs. 17 to Rs. 20 per batch of 5 tons after the production of 25 tons per day. 
Ii was further agreed that Rs. 10 out of the sum was to be distributed to 
those workers who were getting the production bonus so far, or in other 
words, the 14 men comprising the category 5 in Ext. D and the balance of 
Rs. 10 was to be distributed to the other permanent workers who were not: 
getting any bonus so far. This arrangement of the production bonus is 
continuing till today, 


The Union, in its written statement, complains that the present system 
for the payment of production bonus in which the total production is divided 
into two equal halves, then one half is paid to 10 per cent. of the favoured 
workers and the other half to 90 per cent. of the workers 18 unjust and un- 
equitable and is followed with the ulterior purpose of wrecking the unity of 
the workers. The Union has been repeatedly requesting the Company to 
change the present system of production bonus for a just and equitable 
system but without any result. After an unsuccessful conciliation proceed- 
ing over this matter, the dispute has been referred to the Tribunal. The 
Union claims that the production bonus should be raised to Rs. 40 per 
hatch instead of Rs. 20 and that the production bonus should be paid to 
each worker in proportion to his wage. 


The Company opposed this claim on the ground that on the present cost 
of production and selling price of the product, the target which has been 
fixed as normal production over and above which production bonus is to be 
gaven is very low and the workmen can easily produce and they actually 
stoduce 30 tonsa per day. It is, therefore, stated that it 1s not only 
impossible to lower down the target for the purpose of payment of production 
honus, but it is necessary to raise it to a higher level. The present ratio of 
distribution of Rs. 10 to the Refinery Hardening Mistries, and Rs. 10 to the 
other workers was fixed by a settlement by the workers themselves, and any 
alteration of the same will create difficulties and unrest amongst the workers 
eoncerned. The demand for the revision of the production bonus scheme 
now tn existence should be rejected. 


P. W. 1 Shri Bimal Chandra Basu, a semi-skilled workman working in 
the Pump House, was examined for the Wnion and 0.P.W. 1 Shri P. N. 
Mathur, the Manager of the Factory, was examined for the Company. 
Documents, Kxt. A to Ext. F(8), were marked for the Company. Exhibit 
A is a proceedings of the Works Committee held at the Mill premises on 
26th June 1953, in which the production honus of Rs. 17 was increased 
to Ra. 20 per batch of 5 tons after the production of 25 tons per day and 
the scheme of distribution of production bonus waa changed. Exhibit B is 
a letter, dated 4th March 1954, by which the President of the Union, Shri 
Shib Nath Banerji, called upon the Company to alter the scheme of distri4 
bution of production bonus on the ground that the existing scheme was 
unjust and inequitable. Exhibit C is a statement of working analysis show- 
ing the expenses of the ‘“‘Vanaspati” product per maund and the sale 
realisation per maund, showing the profit or loas per maund’in the years 
1961-52, 1942-58, 1953-54 and 1954-55. This document shows that there 
was a loss per maund of the manufactured product in 1951-42 and in 1954- 
65, and there was profit per maund of the manufactured product in 1952-53 
and 1953-54. Exhibit D is a list of the categories of workmen with their 


3304 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Pant I 
সিপিএ 
rates of wages per day and the number of workmen working in the different 
categories. Exhibit K is a statement showing the details of wages given to 
unskilled workmen in the Company, as well as in three local ‘‘Vanaspati’’ 
factories, indicating that the Company was paying the highest wages to the 
unskilled workers. Exhibits F to 1°(3) sre the Report and Statement of 
Accounts of the Company for the years ending 30th April 1952, 30th April 
1953, 30th April 1954, and 30th April 1955. 


The evidence of P. W. 1 Shri Bimal Chandra Basu shows that the 
present system of payment of production bonus is that half of the amount 
is paid to only 14 men and the other half is paid to the other workers, that 
there are 130 permanent workers besides 40 temporary workers in the 
Company, and that the temporary workers do not,get any production bonus. 
P.W. ۱ states that the grievance of the workers is that the production bonus 
should be distributed equitably amongst the workers and that an equitable 
distribution may be attained by distributing the bonus proportionately to 
the pay received by the employees. O.P.W. 1 Shri P.N. Mathur states that 
it is not possible for the Company to increase the bonus to more than 
Rs. 20, as it will be uneconomical. He states that it is not possible to 
distribute the bonus equally to all workmen, because there will be discontent 
umongst the mistries who are the real producers. He states that these 14 
mistries who received the production bonus are the persons who can increase 
the production and therefore they are given this incentive bonus. He fur- 
ther states that on an enquiry ۳ found that the skilled workers in the 
categories of 1 to 5 in Exhibit D were getting less pay than similar workers 
in other factories in Calcutta, and that the unskilled workers in other 
factories were getting more wages than similar workers in this factory. 
He, therefore, justified the present scheme of paying half of the production 
bonus, being Rs. 10 per day to 14 mistries and the other half of Rs. 10 to 
the rest of 116 workers. It appears that in June 1953, when the production 
bonus payable to the 14 mistries was reduced from Rs. 17 to Rs. 10, their © 
daily. wage was increased from annas four to annas seven. ‘he other 
mistries also got increase in their daily wage from annas four to annas seven 
per day and the other workers were given an increase of 6 pies per day. It 
appears in the evidence of O.P.W. 1.that the Foreman No. 1 in Exhibit D 
got more than annas seven increase in the daily wage, No. 2 got slightly 
less than annas seven, and the mistries in item Nos. 3, 4 and 5 got a little 
less than annas six increase per day. It is stated that the 14 mistries are 
the key-men for increasing production, although they cannot do so without 
the others. The balance-sheets, Exhibit I’ series show loss in the year 
1951-52, profit in the years 1952-53 and 1953-54. There was also a working 
loss in the year 1954-55. It appears that no provision for depreciation was 
made in any of these years, and no dividend was paid to the share-holders 
and no Managing Agents commission was paid. It is, therefore, argued by 
the learned advocate for the Company that the production bonus should not 
be increased in any way. It also appears from the document, Exhibit 8, 
which is the first letter of the President of the Union formulating the 
demdhd of the production bonus, that no increase of the production bonus 
was demanded at that date. The learned President for the Union, who 
addressed the court at the hearing of the case, admitted that no claim for 
increase of the quantum of the production bonus was made prior to the 
reference of the dispute to the Tribunal, although the Union has ۵۸8 
demanding for better and more equitable distribution of the production 
bonus since 1954. Considering all these circumstances and the fact that 
the financial condition of the Company is not strong, it is decided that 
there should be no increase of the quantum of the production bonus, and that 
the production bonus shall continue to be Rs. 20 per extra charge of 5 tons . 
after the production of 25 tons per day, as it is in existence at the present 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3305 


time. There can be no doubt that the scheme of distribution of the bonus 
is inequitable inusmuch as half the amount goes to only 14 men and the 
other half goes to the rest 01 116 permanent workers. This scheme of dis- 
tribution cannot be defended by the statement of the Manager, O.P.W. را‎ 
that the mistry Nos. 1 to 14 were getting less basic wage than the 
mistries in other ‘‘Vanaspati’’ factories in Calcutta. On this point, the 
only evidence was the statement of the Manager, O.P.W. 1. In any case, 
the scheme of distribution of the production bonus as it is availing at the 
present time is inequitable and is a potent cause of industrial dispute. It 
is awarded that the production bonus shall be distributed to the permonvent 
workmen in proportion to the basic wage earned by the individual ۰ 
nent workmen. The mistry Nos. 1 to 14 have already got an increase 8 
the daily basic wage in*1953. Should the Company find it necessary, a 
further increase in the basic wage may be given to them, but the deficiency 
in their basic wage should not be sought to be made up by an unjustly large 
share in the production bonus, as was being done so long. This issue is 


accordingly answered. 
M. C. BANERJT, 


Judge, First Industrial Tribunal. 
The 1st August 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. §. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER. 


No, 3651Dis. /D/111.-416/55.—21st August 1956.—Whereas under the 
‘Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1656Dis./D/ 
-117.-416/55, dated the 24th April 1956, the industrial dispute between 
‘Messrs, United Rubber Works, Ltd., 51 Tangra Road, Calcutta-15 and 
their workmen represented by United Rubber Mazdoor Panchayet, 76 
Surendra Nath Banerjee Road, Calcutta-14, regarding the matters specified 
in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second 
Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the aaid industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. United Rubber 
Works, Ltd., 51 Tangra Road, Calcutta-15 and their workmen 
represented by United Rubber Mazdoor Panchayet, 76 Surendra Nath 
Banerjee Road, Calcutta-14. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Suri G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industral Tribunal 


e 


Apparances : 


For the employees; Shri. Hiralal Roy, Pleader, Shri Ram Babu Saha, 
(Jeneral Secretary, United Rubber Mazdoor Panchayet. 


For the Company: Shri Sailesh Chandra Sen, Advocate, 


3306 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1950 [Parr I 


The aforesaid dispute has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication 
under Government order No. e 66Dis./D/11L-416/55, dated 24th April 
1956. 


The issues as per schedule to the order of reference stand as follows: 


(1) Whether the action of the Management in reducing the supply of 
raw materials and curtailing the work ef the workers was 
justified ? 


(2) To what relief are the workers entitled? 


AWARD 


The Union in its written statement has stated that the Company 1s an 
old one, and is a prosperous concern with about 600 workmen in its employ. 
There was no rule of service, no rule of leave and holidays, and no 
provision for Provident Fund and ratuity, and the minimum basic wages 
were also less in many cases. So, the workmen in order to better their lot 
and remove legitimate grievances formed a Union in 1950, which, however, 
was not accepted in good grace by | the Company. Two disputes between 
the parties were referred to two. Tribunals. The Tribunal presided over by 
Shri G, Palit passed an award on 14th June 1952 (which was published on 
26th June 1952 in the Calcutta Gazette) on several issues including 
minimum basic wages, bonus and involuntary unemployment for some time 
in a year. The Tribunal presided over by Shri M. N. Gan fixed dearness 
allowance for the workers. This award was made on 29th December 1953 
and was published in the Calcutta Gazette on 28th January 1954. But 
these awards have not been implemented by the Company. On the 
contrary, the Company in order to victimise the workers, who were 
members of the Union, pursued a policy of discrimination, and made two 
groups—one with the Union workers known as Russian Fauz, and the other 
with the workers who were loyal to the Company known as American Fauz. 
The Russian Fauz were given very meagre supply of materials, while the 
American Fauz as much materials aa they hiked and were capable of 
working with. In consequence of this reduction of the supply of raw 
materials there was curtailment of wages of workers during the period from 
6th June 1954 to 6th November 1954 and again from 4th Tale 108955 to 
10th October 1955 in this Company to the great sufferings of the workers 
and consequent loss of their income. The Union wanted to say that the 
action of the Management was unjustified, and accordingly it claimed that 
the workers should be paid normal wages, which they were entitled to get 
during the period when there was curtailment of work. 


The Company contested the claim on merits, and in its written statement 
has stated, among others, that it manufactures rubber shoes, and that these 
articles are sold mostly during the winter and rainy seasons, as in other 
seasons there is practically no market for the same. Its products are 
restricted between June and November. The Company has denied the 
allegation of the Union that it made discrimination in the matter 01 
distribertion of raw materials and curtailment of work among the workers. 
It has also denied the allegation of the Tnion that it termed one group of 
the workers as American Fauz and the other group as Russian Fauz. It 
further denied having recruited new hands during the dull season. 


issue No. 1—Whether the action of the Management in reducing the supply 
of raw materials and curtailing the work of the workers was 
justified? 


At the very outset, T may say that the scope of adjudication is limited 
by the issue No. 1, which is hased on the assumption that there was 
reduction in the supply of raw materials and curtailment of work of the 


issue 05 framed by the Govertiment in the schedule to the order of reference 
it ig admitted on behalf of the Company in its written statement that the 
rubber shoes and canvas shoes, which this Company manufactures, are sold 
mostly during the winter and rainy seasons, and its productions are being 
restricted between June and November every year, when there is practically 
no market for such articles. 0. P. W. 1 Shri M. S. Saigan, who is the 
General Manager and Director of the Company, has also deposed 17) ۵ 
case that the rubber and canvas shoes, which the Company manufactures, 
are sold mostly during the months of November, December, January, 
February, March and April, and also in May and June, but in the months 
of July, August and September and also in the first part of October there 1s 
practically no sale of such shoes in the market. The Union has specifically 
mentioned two periods in its written statement, when there was reduction 
in the supply of raw materials and curtailing wages of workers in this 
Company. One period is from 6th June 1954 to 6th November 1954 and 
the other period is from 4th July 1955 to 10th October 1955, In the issue 
appearing in the schedule to the order of reference no mention is made of 
the period. In view of what has been stated in the written statement of 
the Union, there is no difficulty in accepting the said period as the period 
when there was curtailment of wages of workers in this Company. The 
moot question for consideration in this dispute is whether there was 
justification for such curtailment of wages of the workers in consequence of 
reduction in the supply of raw materials. Both parties have adduced 
evidence, and I have carefully considered the same. On a consideration of 
the matter it is extremely difficult to say that the Management pursued a 
policy of discrimination amongst the workers employed in the factory in the 
mutter of distribution of work or supply of raw materials. The evidence of 
P, W. 1 Shri Ram Babu Saha, who is the General Secretary of the Union, 
is not at all helpful in this respect. He has frankly stated that he has no 
‘personal knowledge regarding the facts deposed to by him, but he heard 
the same from the workers who came and reported so to him. He _ has 
no doubt stated in his evidence that the Comrany adopted the policy of 
discrimination in order to victimise the workers, who were associated or 
connected with the Union. His version is that those who were loyal to the 
Management were called American Fauz and those who were connected 
with the Union were known as Russian Fauz, and that the Russian Fauz 
were given less work, while the American Fauz were given more work. 
But as his knowledge in this respect is based on hearsay, no importance or 
weight can be put to his version. P. ভা. 2 Shri Subai, who is a piece-rated 
worker of this Company, does not fullv support the version of P. W. 1, the 
General Secretary of the Union. He has stated clearly that the workers of 
both the groups—American Fauz and Russian Fauz—used to get work from 
the Company, and so also the new recruits. All that he wanted to say 38 
that those workers who were connected with the Union were given (۵ 
work. As againat this, there is the positive testimony of 0. P. W. 1 Shri 
M.S. Saigan, General Manager and Director of the Comrany, to the 
effect that in this Company there is no group of workers known as American 
Fauz and Russian Fauz, and that the Management does not make any 
discrimination in the matter of distribution of work or supply of raw 
materials to the workers. He has also denied the fact that the Company 
recruited new hands during the dull season. That there waa no recruitment 
of new hands during the last few years is also evident from the materials 
placed before the Tribunal. The Union in its written statement has 
stated that this Company emplovs about 500 workmen. In the written 


statement filed in connection with an industrial dispute before Shri 


3308 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Part T 


ےس یی سے 


dg 
G. Palit, it appears that the Union claimed then also that the Company 
employed 500 workman or more. P. W. 1 General Secretary of the Union 
was constrained to admit this fact in his cross-examination. An industrial 
dispute between the parties was referred to Shri G. Palit in the year 1951, 
and it appears that the Union filed written statement in connection with 
that dispute on 5th November 1951. There is also the statement of the 
General Manager and Director of the Company that the strength of their 
workmen will be about 400, and such number fluctuates from time to time, 
and that they have been maintaining that strength since the inception of 
the Company. In view of what has been stated ا‎ there cannot possibly 
remain any scope for argument that the Company recruited new hands in 
order to victimise the workers who were connected with the Union by 
curtailing their wages. After giving my careful and anxious consideration 
to the materials on record. J hold that the Union has not succeeded in 
establishing that the Company pursued a policy of discrimination amongst 
the workers in the matter of distribution of work or supply of raw ee ph 


That there was some curtailment in the wages of the workers during the 
periods as specifically mentioned in the written statement of the Union is 
an udmitted fact. Presumably, this was due to the fact that there was 
rractically no market for canvas and rubber shoes, which this Company 
manufactures. From the evidence 1t appears that such shoes are sold 
mostly during the months of November, December, January, February, 
March and April and also in May and June, but in the months of* July, 
August and September and also in the first part of October -there is 
practically no sale of such shoes in the market. The General Manager and 
Director of the Company has deposed that during the period when there is 
no sale of such shoes in the market, the Company closes its factory at 
12 o’clock instead of 5 p.m. P. W. 1 Shri Ram Babu Saha, General 
Secretary of the Union, has also admitted in his cross-examination that 
during: the periods as mentioned in the written statement of the Union the 
fectory, which opened as usual at 8 a.m., used to be closed sometime at 
12 o’clack, fihd in no Case after 12 o’clock the work continued 11) the 
factory. P. W. 2 Shri Subai, who is one of the workers, has also deposed 
in the same line. Their evidence does not indicate or suggest for a moment 
that some workers were allowed to work in the factory even after 12 o’clock. 
This also negatives the contention of the Union that the Company pursued 
a policy of discrimination in the matter of distribution of work amongst the 
workers. It appears from the award given by Shri G. Palit that the 
question of such closure of the factory also cropped up before him. Shri 
Palit while dealing with the issue No. ‘—1involuntary unemployment 
observed that such involuntary unemployment of the workers was unavoid- 
able, because there were seasons in which the rubber work was brisk and 
when it was dull and it all depended on the market. He further observed 
that in the winter and the rainy seasons the demand for rubber goods was 
more than the other times of the year. Thus, it is apparent that the 
question of curtailment of work of the workers and of their wages during 
the dull season did not arise for the first time during the periods as 
specifically mentioned in the written statement of the Union, but as a 
matter of fact, this practice has been going on in this factory all along 
since its very inception. Regard being had to the nature of the Company’s 
business, and on a consideration of the fact that it manufactures canvas and 
rubber shoes only, which are sold mostly during the winter and the rainy 
seasons for which there is no market at other times of the year, it cannot 
be said that the action of the Management in Closing the factory at 
12 o’clock during the periods specifically mentioned in the written 
statement of the Union, which were admittedly dull season of the years in 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3300 


yfestion, was mala fide and illegal. The Management best knows how to 
regulate its busimess. Tt could not be proved that the Management closed 
its factory at 12 o’clock during the saig periods to put the workers ۵٥ 
sufferings. It cannot be believed for a moment that ۶9 Management will 
arbitrarily and capriciously close its factory after 4 hours’ work instead of 
8 hours’, and stop production when it fetches profits. Such closure of the 
factory at 12 0’clock during the dull season was inevitable and unavoidable. 
If by such closure of the factory there was any curtailment of work and 
wages of the workers, there was no helr for it, and the Management cannot 
be blamed for that. So, the Tribunal comes to the conclusion that the 
action of the Management in reducing the supply of raw materials and 
curtailing the work of the workers during the periods in question was 
justified. The Tribunal is unahle to hold that the Management سا‎ this 
respect acted with any mala fide motive, This issue is answered in the 
affirmative. 


issue No. 2—To what relief are the workers entitled? 


Tn view of what has been stated above, the question of giving any 
relief to the workers does not and Cannot arise. Hence, the workers are not 
entitled to any relief. This issue is answered accordingly. 


This is my award, 
Dictated and corrected by me. 


0. P. MUKHERJEF, G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
re Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
সি), ا‎ 


The 9th August 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
ND. ٥. P. MOKHERJEEF, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 3549Dis./D/10L-56 ৮) August 1956.—Whereas ander the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 06| 
101.-56/56, dated the 29th March 1956, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox of India, Ltd., 4 Bankshall Street, Calcutta-1 
and their emplovees represented by Babcock & Wilcox Workers’ Union, 
129/A Circular Garden Reach Road, Kidderpore, Calcutta, regarding the 
matters specified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the 
Second Industrial Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 1s pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Messrs. Babcock & 
Wilcox of India, Ltd., 4 Bankshall Street, Caloutta-1 and their 
employees represented by Babcock & Wilcox Workers’ Union, 129;A 
Circular Garden Reach Road, Kidderpore, Calcutta. — 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT: | 
Surt G. P. MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal 


3310 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Part I 


ہمت 


| 7 
Appearances : 


For the employees: Shri Jolly Mohan Kaul, President, Babcock & Wilcox 
Workers’ Union. 8 

For the Company: Shri J. N. Chatterjee, Assistant Labour Adviser, Indian 
Engineering Association. 


By Government order No, 1805Dis./D/10L-56/56, dated 29th March 
1956, the aforesaid dispute has been referred to this Tribunal, for adjudica- 
tion regarding the matters mentioned in the schedule. 


The issues contained in the schedule to the order of reference stand ۵8 
follows: 
(1) Whether the dismissal ‘of the seven workers as per attached 
List A was justified. What relief are they entitled to? 


(2) Whether the suspension of the eight workers aos per attached 
"List B was justified. What reliefs are they entitled to? 


(3) Bonus for the years 1953 and 1994. 
(4) Annual increments for the Hide Road godown workmen. 
At the very outset, it may be stated that the workmen in the Hide Road 
installation and the sub-staff at the Bankshall Street office are only 
concerned in the present adjudication, and all other employees including 


out-station staff and the clerks at the Bankshall Srteet office are outside the 
scope of the present reference. 
List A 


Names of dismissed workers. 
(1) Shri Rigdew Sukul. 
(2) Shri Sambhu Das. 
(3) Shri Radhanath Gharui. 
.. (4) Shri Mukunda Manna. 
(5) Shri Satya Ranjan Kundu. 
(6) Shri Pashupati Santra. 
(7) Shri Jagabandhu Panday. 


List B 
Names of workers who have been suspended. 
(1) Shri Rajkishore Lohar. 
(2) Shri Sankar Biswal. 
(3) Shri Ramnath Missir. 
(4) Shri Ramadhar Ahir. 
(5) Shri Udayraj Tewart. 
(6) Shri Satyanarain Tewar1. 
(7) Shri Dula] Chandra Das. 
(8) Shri Anantoo Ahir. 
AWARD 


Babcock & Wilcox of India, Ltd. (hereinafter called the Company), 18 
a private limited Company, which was registered in India on July 1, 1947 
Prior to that, the business was carried on in India by a Branch office of 
Babcock & Wilcox, London, from 1906. It does no manufacturing. It 
imports water tubes, boilers, guper-heaters, stokers, coal conveyors, steel 
chimieies, cranes, etc. and also spare parts of those articles. It also 
erects new boilers. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3311 


শপ রর ক রা 


Babcock & Wilcox Workers’ Union (hereinafter called the Union) 
wants to say that the dismissal of seven workmen as per attached List A 
regarding issue No. 1 was illegal and unfair, and against all principles of 
natural justice. So, their reinstatement with full compensation for the 
period of forced unemployment was claimed by the Union. The Union 
further submitted that the suspension of eight workmen as per attached 
List B regarding issue No. 2 was illegal and mala fide, and as such the 
Company might be directed to allow them to resume their work. The 
Union further demanded payment of bonus to each worker for the years 
1953 and 1954 equivalent to three months’ total wages in addition to one 
month’a bonus that has been granted by the Company. It was also 
submitied by the Union that the workmen concerned have been deprived 
of increments since 1953, and as such an annual increment of Its. 5 was 
claimed on their behalf. 


The Company says that the dismissal of these seven workers as per 
attached List A was justified, as they were found guilty of gross mis- 
conduct. The Company stated that in dismissing those workmen, it 
followed scrupulously all principles of natural justice. Regarding the 
Union’s claim for bonus, the Company wanted to say that such claim is 
not at all tenable, inasmuch as the trading results as disclosed 1 the 
balance sheets for the years 1953 and 1954 were not satisfactory, and there 
was no available surplus to be distributed amongst the workmen as bonus, 
after meeting all the prior charges. The Company paid one month’s basic 
wage as bonus for some years to the workmen, because the trading results 
of the Company were favourable, and there were some profits to justify 
payment of annual bonus, but the Company had at no time made any pay- 
ment in a year, in which the Company suffered trading losses. The 
Company had made ea gratia payments in 1958 and 1954, because it had 
some small profits for which such payment could be made, but this pay- 
ment was not a condition of service of the workmen. Regarding annua 
increment for the Hide Road godown staff, the Company has contended 
that it engages about 45 workmen in the said establishment, most of whom 
are unskilled workers. The Company grants increment only in deserving 
cases, and there is no grade system with time-scale of increment. The 
total remunerations paid by the Company to its workmen employed in the 
aforesaid godown are fair, reasonable and adequate, and ৪০ there is no 
justification of any increase in their existing wages. 


Issue No. 2—Whether the suspension of the eight workers as per attached 
List B was justified. What reliefs are they entitled to? 


This isaue is taken up first. It needs no more any adjudication by the 
Tribunal, inasmuch as both the parties have amicably settled this dispute, 
and filed a joint petition of compromise on 2]s{. June 1996 hefore the 
Tribunal. The said joint petition of compromise is on the record, and I 
have persued the same. The terms appear to he fair and reasonable, and 
as such they are accepted. It is, therefore, ordered that an award in terms 
of the settlement arrived at between the parties with reference ٥ this 
issue be made. The joint petition of compromise together with Annexure A 
do form part of the award as Appendices. This issue No. 2 is thus 
disposed of, 


Issue No. ---Annual increments for the Hide Road godown workmen. 


It appears from the evidence that about 48 workmen work in the Hide 
Road godown, and the majority of them are coolies. They come under the 
category of unskilled workers. 4 1s admitted that there are no fixed 
[70195 or scales of pay for these workers 1n this Company. The Union has 


3312 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr 1 


urged that annual increment should be awarded to all the workmen. as 
the Company grants increment to some of them. It is true no doubt that 
the Company granted increment to'some of the workers, but such increment 
was granted to them in consideration of their merit and efficiency. 4 
seems that granting of such increment lies absolutely at the discretion of 
the Management, but this fact by itself does not justify that annual 
increment should be awarded to all the workmen as a matter of right. In 
the absence of any fixed scales of pay or grades it is not possible to give any 
effective order calling upon the Company to give increments. The minimum 
basic ss of a worker in this godown, if taken alone, appears to he some- 
what inadequate. But the fact remains that the workers in this godown are 
getting dearness allowance according to the Bengal Chamber of Commerce 
scale, which is a generous and lavish one. So, the total emoluments paid 
to the workers of the godown are indeed decent and handsome, and 
compare favourably with similar concerns in the locality. In my view, 
the minimum total emoluments of a worker in this godown cannot, by any 
means, be said to be inadequate or low, so as to justify any increase regard 
being had to the length of service. Another thing is to be considered in 
this connection. Before incremental scales can be imposed hy an adjudica- 
tion, it is essential to see whether the employer would be able to bear its 
burden. The financial condition of the Company must be such as to lead 
to the condition that it would be able to pay increments year by year for 
an appreciably number of years, for wage scales when settled are intended 
to be long-term schemes. Thus, not only financial ability, but financial 
stability are also essential. In my view, as the evidence indicates, both 
the elements are wanting in the instant case. It has transpired from the 
evidence of 0.۲.۱۲۷۰ 3 Mr. K. J. Holt, who is Assistant Secretary of the 
Company, that the profits of this Company from the year 1950 to 1995 are 
gradually declining. He has deposed no doubt that during the next few 
dori it is hoped that the financial position of the Company might improve, 
mut simply on the basis of such mere expectation incremental scales for 
the workers cannot be thrust upon the Company. There is nothing to 
indicate that such hope as expressed by Mr. Holt would spurt into sudden 
prosperity. of the Company of a lasting nature. In my view, no ad hoc 
increments should be given, when there are no fixed grades and incremental 
scales already in existence. Incremental scales can be settled no doubt 
by the Tribunal, but the materials on the record are not adequate enough 
for laying down such incremental scales. In fact, materials are not of 
such a nature which would make it advisable to settle incremental scales 
in this case. There can be no doubt that ordinarily speaking there should 
be fixed annual increment, which would offer encouragement to the workers 
for better work and would provide for their proper maintenance, as they 
advance in age, but as the matters stand, there is no help. The workmen 
concerned would do well to co-operate with the Company for some time 
more with a view to improve its condition and to renew their claims there- 
after. So, considering the matter in all its bearings, I do not find my way 
to introduce any annual increment for the Hide Road godown workmen at 
present. ~This issue is decided accordingly. 


Issue No, : ‘Bonus for the years 1953 and 1954 


Regarding bonus, the Union’s claim is that the Company should pay 
the workmen concerned bonus equivalent to three months’ total wages for 
the years 1958 and 1954, in addition to one month’s bonus, which the 
Company has paid to such workers at Puja time. The Union’s claim, as 
I understood from its written statement, is that the Company has been pay- 
ing one month’s bonus to the workmen at Puja time for a long time past, 
without any reference to profit and loss, and that over and above that 


15711) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3313 


লিপ রা সা‏ 9ة ت0 
ar a‏ 1 :44 0 وو وو رو و CT‏ 1 


bonus. which the workers get as customary bonus, they are entitled to get 
profit bonus. I do not like to enter into the merits of the claim for such 
Puja bonus, because this is not an issuesin the present reference. The 
leading case in this respect is the Mahalakshmi Cotton Mills reported in 
no '× [ : 

1952 L.A.C. 370. A claim for such Puja bonus must depend on as to 
whether there was an agreement to pay it irrespective of profit as a condi- 
tion of service. That agreement might be either express or implied, and 
where not express, past practice may lead to an inference of an implied 
agreement. But the practice must be unbroken, and should have continued 
for an appreciably long period to exclude the hypothesis of these payments 
being ex gratia ones or out of bounty. In the present case, the claim for 
bonus has been based on the general principle that labour and capital 
should share the surplus left after meeting the necessary and prior charges. 
All the Tribunals now follow in this respect the well-established principles 
laid down by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in its Full Bench decision in 
the case of Mill Owners’ Association, Bombay v. Rastriya Mill Mazdoor 
Sangha, Bombay (1952 L.A.C. 433). It has been clearly laid down in the 
above case that the claim for bonus is to arise, if there is any surplus 
profit left after making provision for prior charges and fair return on 
pail up capital and on reserve employed as working capital. Thus, all 
previous theories regarding bonus have been exploded and replaced by one 
single theory of bonus, which is payable only out of profits of an industry. 
Hence, the question of bonus does not arise, until and unless there has 
been substantial profits leaving sufficient margin after meeting the prior 
charges, depreciation, reserve for rehabilitation of machinaries, a fair return 
for the yoney invested and some return on the working capital to meet the 
demands of bonus of the workmen. Income-tax is a legitimate deduction 
according to the Full Bench formula. The financial year of this Company 
is from October to September. In the present case, the claim for bonus 
fis for the years 1959 and 1954. That being so, we are to consider the 
financial position of this Company for the years ending 30th September 
1953 and 1954. The Company has accordingly produced the balance sheets 
for those two years, and they are Exts. A and B. These balance sheets 
have been audited by Messrs. Lovelock & Lewes, Chartered Accountants. 
The balance sheets produced by the Company must be presumed to be 
correct, unless the contrary is shown by definite evidence. In the present 
case, the Union could not show anything that the balance sheets were not 
correct. It appears from the balance sheets that in the year 1953 the net 
profit of this Company was Rs. 1,64,489-0-9 pies, and in the year 1954 1t 
was Rs. 1,59,867-5-f1 pies. It further appears from the balance sheets 
that subscribed, issued and paid-up capital was Rs. 34,00,000. If 6 per 
cent. return on the above paid-up capital is allowed, the figure comes to 
2,04,000. Over and above this, there is also the payment of income-tax 
for these years. It appears from Ext. J(1) series, which are the copies 
of the income-tax assessment issued by the Income-tax Authorities, that 
in the year 1953-54 Rs. 69,542-15 was payable as income-tax by _ the 
Company, and Rs, 68,186-14 in the year 1954-95. O.P.W. 3 Mr. K. J. 
Holt, who is the Assistant Secretary of the Company, has deposed that the 
said amounts of income-tax have been actually paid to the Income-tax 
Authorities. If 6 per cent. return on the paid-up capital and income-tases 
paid be deducted from net profits for the years in question, it is crystal clear 
that there remains no available surplus, but on the contrary there remains 
a deficit to the tune of more than one lakh in each year. Other items, such 
as depreciation, reserve for rehabilitation of machineries, etc., are not 
taken into account, although the Company is entitled to get deduction of 
the amounts required to meet those charges. Hence, the claim of the 
Union for profit bonus for the years 1903 and 1954 cannot be sustained, 
and is accordingly rejected. This issue is decided thus. 


3314 THE CATCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr T 


issue No. 1—Whether the dismissal of the seven workers as per attached 
List A was Justified. What relief are they entitled to? 


Now I would like to take up issue No. 1. Regarding the dismissal of 
the seven workers as per stacked List A of the order of reference, it is 
the contention of the Company that they were dismissed from service, as 
they participated in the stay-in-strike on 22nd April 1955, and also refused 
to do overtime work on 16th April 1955 and 23rd April 1955 according to 
the instructions of their superior officer Shri A. Mukherjee, Supervisor of 
the Hide Road godown. The said charges have been denied on behalf of 
the workmen concerned. The Union wanted to say that the workmen 
concerned were not guilty of the charges levelled against them, and that 
they had done nothing which might warrant dismissal, The Whion’s 
contention 1s that the Company in sacking them was actuated by ulterior 
motive, the motive being to crush the Union, because these workmen were 
more or less active organisers of the Union. It is necessary, therefore, to 
decide which version is correct. Ceratin facts require to be stated for 
appreciating the true position, and the matter should be judged 
dispassionately behind the background of those facts. The workmen of 
the Hide Road godown have all along been doing overtime work beyond 
normal scheduled working hours. It appears from the standing orders, 
which have been exhibited in this case, that such overtime work is their 
condition of service. The normal working hours for a workman in this 
godown is 36 hours in a week. This is also admitted by the Secretary of 
the Union, P.W. 1 Shr Gour Mohan Das. We further get from ithe 
evidence of the said Secretary and two other workmen who have deposed 
on behalf of the workers concerned, that overtime work is done in this 
godown. So, it is established beyond doubt that overtune work in the 
godown is the condition of service of the workers. For such overtime 
work the workers get extra remuneration. The majority of the workors 
in the godown being coolies are employed in loading and unloadiny of goods 
in railway wagons. That being so, the provisions of sections 51, 52, 64) 
55, 56 and 61 of the Factories Act do not apply to such workers, and this 
has been made clear by rule 10 of the West Bengal Factories (15610006107) 
Rules, 1954. But the Union that was formed in February 1953 demanded 
double wages for such overtime work from the Management. Its demand 
was that a worker working one hour overtime would get wages with dear- 
ness allowance for two hours. A letter was also আর to that effect 
to the Company on 4th April 1955 (vide Ext. 0). ie that letter 1 was 
perfectly made clear that unless such double wages fof overtime work were 
paid, the workers would not do any overtime work in future. P.W. 1 
Shri Gour Mohan Das, who is the Secretary of the Union, has admitted to 
have addressed such a letter to the Company. Thus, it is evident that 
the workers were willing to do overtime work, which they were doing all 
along and which they knew also to be a condition of service, but they 
were unwilling to do the same, unless double wages were paid to them for 
such overtime. The Company was not, however, willing to pay such 
double wages to them for overtime regard being had to their nomal work- 
ing hours and the conditions of service. In this state of things, a clash 
was inevitable between the Company and the workers. This is what exactly 
happened in the godown within a few days from the date of the letter 
addressed by the Secretary of the Union to the Company as mentioned 
above. According to the written statement of the Company, on Saturday, 
the 16th April 1955, at about 12 noon, a wagon came at the godown siding 
containing some boiler tubes. The Godown Supervisor in order to save 
demurrage charge asked eight workmen to unload the wagon, but those 
workmen refused to carry out the instructions of the Supervisor, unless 
they were paid double wages, and stopped work at 12-30 p.m. as usual. 


Parr 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90, 1956 3315 


۱ یپ رھ‎ ae eee oe eer eee 
The Supervisor reported the matter to the Head Office, and these eight 
workmen were charge-sheeted for this. The Company seut charge-sheets 
to the Supervisor for handing over the sathe to the workmen concerned. 
While the Supervisor was explaining the charge-sheets to the workmen 
concerned on 22nd April 1955, all workmen of the godown in general left 
their place and surrounded the Supervisor’s office, and demanded immediate 
withdrawal of the charge-sheets. The Supervisor informed the Manage- 
ment of this incident, and Mr. MeMillan, who is in-charge of the godown, 
came to the godown at Hide Road. He tried his best to persuade the 
workmen to give up their unreasonable attitude by resuming normal duties, 
but he failed, When at about 3-15 p.m. he endeavoured to leave the 
godown after posting police force, the workmen blockaded his passage, and’ 
thereby prevented him from coming out of the godown. This was the first 
phase of the incident regarding the refusal of the workers to do overtime 
work. Then again on 28rd April 1955, Saturday, that is within seven days, 
18 workers of this godown were asked by the Supervisor to utload five 
wagons placed at the Company’s godown siding after scheduled working 
hours. Dut this time also those 18 workmen refused to carry out the law- 
ful and reasonable orders of the Supervisor, and stopped work ar usual at 
12-30 p.m. They were charge-sheeted, and the charge-sheets were duly 
received by them. It may he stated here that in respect of the incident 
that took place on 16th April 1955, the Management held an enquiry into 
the matter, and came to a finding that the charge levelled egainst eight 
workers was established warranting their dismissal. But the Manage- 
ment out of generosity took a lenient view of the matter, and let off them 
with warning and reprimand, so that they might get chance to improve 
their conduct in future. Now regarding the incident that took place on 
28rd April 1955, the Management held an enquiry on 3lsi May 1955 in 
presence of the workmen concerned, and that as a result of the said 
enquiry the Company decided that two of them might be excused, in view 
of their long services, provided they were prepared to give an undertaking 
for future good behaviour. Those two workmen gave such an undertaking. 
In respect of nine workmen, the Management decided to issue severe 
warnings to them with clear understanding that they would be dismissed 
in case of further misconduct on their part. Regarding the remaming seven 
workmen, the Company decided to dismiss them, as six of then: participated 
in the stay-in-strike on 22nd April 1955 and also refused vo do overtime 
work on both occasions, that is on 16th Apri] 1955 and 28rd April 1950 
according to the instmictions of their Supervisor. Regarding the remain- 
ing workman, Shri Jagabandhu Pandey, the Company derided to dismiss 
him, because on 17th July 1954 he left the Howrah Station without book- 
ing the Company’s goods for which purpose he was deputed there, end ٥0 
he participated in the stay-in-strike on 22nd April 1955 and refused to do 
overtime work on 28rd April 1955. Now it is for the Tribunal tu consider 
whether the dismissal of these seven workers. as mentioned in the attached 
List A to the order of reference was justified. According to the Company, 
the principles of natural justice were scrupulously followed in dismissing 
them from service. But it was urged on behalf of the Union that no 
proper enquiry was held by the Management, and that the werkmen 
concerned were not allowed any opportunity 7 examine their witnesses, or 
to say anything to explain their position. his has been emphatically 
denied by the Company. Both parties have examined witnesses before the 
Trihunal and from the evidence and materials placed I am satisfied at least 
that the workmen concerned got charge-sheet, and were pregent through- 
out the enquiry held by the Management. The enquiry sheets could not 
he produced hefore the Tribunal, because they were handed over by the 
Management to the Labour Officer, who held conciliation proceedings, and 


it is said by the Management that those enquiry sheets are siill Jying with 


3316 THE CALC 7٦ 
THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 
ও 
the Labour Officer. In absence t: | 
with any amount of precision, کک و مہ‎ ধা : annot be aaid 
opportunities to examine witnesses or to state. hat ۲ a َو‎ niga 
10 defend their position. Even if it : کت‎ they had got to say 
کت‎ 70 iven if it be assumed that the enquiry held 1 
e 11386838111 ۶ not proper and against the ই a ] নিব 
of natural justice, it is of no consequence in this case because 11 سا ارہ‎ 
evidence has been tendered before the Tribunal Where the oe کت‎ 
violation of natural justice, the Tribunal is to zo into’ th সপ و ارت‎ 
critically and examine the propriety of the Mana ۱ سن‎ of the case 
dismissal. This view has been taken by the لا مد‎ Teh il পু the 5 
of Bathgate Employees’ Union .٭‎ Bathgate & Co (1953 এ re 178 
শিপ ga = রত ক evidence—hoth oral and documentary The 
1 question, who as ۱ ۱ | پور‎ 
کت‎ er ٦ these ক اع‎ পন a eb حم‎ 
xamined. Mr. McMillan, who is 10) 01181726010) 5 ars 
hei rg in this case. I do not see an coat to 7৭189, ‘the te 7٦ 
১ ক وا‎ পন (O.P.W. 1), and Mr. McMillan (0.1, Ws). 
Supervisor has deposed is also corroborated by hi و رھ‎ 
اما ھی تک سا‎ Saeed has as ota woes 
ha ات ا ھا‎ 1 । elieved that this Supervisor would 
bear the stamp of truth. On a consi Se 98 ٦ 
aie ee that سے‎ seven Se سار‎ pining pully of ee کت‎ 
evelled against them. It can be hardly believed that th did و‎ 
overtime work, simply because no notice for such ti রী সু Beg Rie 
given to them, as deposed to by P.W.s 2 and 3 pices of. সা লা পন 
workers. In the face of clear and ‘unequivoc ১ = ات‎ i 
যা | کت تک‎ 1), the re ےت‎ 
adily accepted. The question of issuing any notice for tis | 
could not possibly arise. This plea was simpl taken 1 کے‎ 
who deposed in this case—taking advanta iy oe ধন 
provided in section E of the Standing Selene رر‎ লিপু 
showing period and hours of work for every class and grown of চিত en 
the godown and shipping department, and for each shift, shali be di ta nd 
on Notice-Board meant for the purpose in the godown at the time ان‎ i 
office and at or near the main entrance of the godown ‘Tt 7 doubtt 1 
whether any notice was required to be displayed ap the Notice B an ছা 
the godown, whenever any workman in the godown was called جوم‎ 7 
overtime work, That no notice was necessary for such overtime کت‎ 
been admitted by two of the workers, who deposed in this case, and the aa 
P.W.s 29 snd 3. Both of them have clearly stated in their princi وا‎ 
tion that the Company does not give any notice for overtime work cat ie 
Supervisor gives such direction. On a consideration of the matter | 0 
Tribunal is unable to hold that the Management in dismissin these 7 
workers was actuated by any ulterior motive, because of চি Cason 
activities. Nor can it say that there was want of bona fides or there was 
victimisation or unfair labour practice, or anything of the kind on the part 
of the Management in the instant case. On a careful scrutiny of ae 
materials placed before the Tribunal, I am definitely of the view that these 
seven workers were guilty of wilful insubordination and disobedience of a 
lawful and reasonable order pf a superior officer. That they detiberatel 
refused to carry out the order of the Supervisor Shri A. Mukherjee ا‎ 
the latter asked them to do overtime work, has been amply proved by the 
evidence furnished on behalf of the Company. According to the Standin 
Orders of the Company [vide Appendix 1002) (1), Ext. C(1)] such wilful 
insubordination or disobedience of any lawful and reasonable order of a 
superior officer constitutes a major misdemeanour for which a workman 18 


liable to dismissal. No company can afford to tolerate such repeatod 
Snsubordination and insolence on the part of its workers. This sort of 


Part ]] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3317 
insubordination and grave misconduct undermines discipline, and the 
gravity of such action and conduct cannot be under-rated. The workers 
concerned behaved rather in a disorderly thanner, and their conduct was 
highly subversive of discipline. So, the Tribunal, on a careful considera- 
tion of the merits of the case and after examining critically the propriety 
of the Management’s order, js satisfied that the decision of the Manage- 
ment in dismissing the said workers was a possible view on the evidence 
before it. That being so, the Tribunal should refrain from substituting its 
own judgment for the judgment of the Management, as in such matters the 
Tribunal does not act lke a Court of Appeal, but rather as a supervisory 
body. So, the Tribunal holds that the action of the Company in dismissing 
the said workers was quite justified. It is not open to the Tribunal to 
reduce the punishment or to substitute any other punishment for the one 
imposed by the Management, 


The Tribunal, therefore, comes to the conclusion that the dismissal 
of the seven workers as per attached List A was justified. In this view 
of the matter, the question of their getting any relief does not arise, 
This issue is decided accordingly. 


This is my award. 
‘Dictated and corrected by me. 


(3. 15, MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 
3-8-56. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
۲ Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
he 3rd August 1956. 
٠ APPENDICES 


1 
BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL WEST BENGAL, 
© CALCUTTA (CONSTITUTED UNDER THE INDUSTRIAL DIS- 
PUTES ACT, 1947). 
In the matter of an industrial dispute 
between Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox of 
India Private, Ltd., 4 Bankshall Street, 
Calcutta-l and their workmen represent- 
ed by Babcok & Wilcox Workers’ Union, 
129A Circular Garden 19801, Road, 
Kidderpore, Calcutta 
AND 
In the matter of an industrial dispute 
referred for adjudication under Govern- 
ment order No. 1805Dis./D/101.-56/56, 
dated 29th March 1956. 


The joint petition on behalf of the Company and the workmen 
MosT RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH— 


1. That issue No. 2 in the schedule to the order of reference is 
“Whether the suspension of the eight workers as per attached List B was 
justified. What relief are they entitled to?” ‘ 


That with reference to the said issue No. 2, the Company and the‏ ےھ 
Union on behalf of the eight suspended workmen, have settled the dispute‏ 
out of Tribunal voluntarily and for proper considerations.‏ 


3318 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 = [Parr I 


: 4 
3. That the cases of the eight suspended workmen have been settled 
by both parties on the following terms: 


(A) That the eight suspended workmen shall individually give an 
undertaking as per Annexure A. 


(B) That the eight suspended workmen will be taken back with 
effect from lst July 1956, if they report for duty within the 
period specified below. 


(C) That if any of the eight suspended workmen fails ہا‎ report for 
duty within three days from lst July 1956, he shall have no 
claim for reinstatement after the expiry of the said three days, 
and he shall be considered to have voluntarily resigned from 
the services of the Company from the date of his suspension 
by the Company. 


(D) That the eight suspended workmen shall have no claim for any 
wage or compensation for the period of suspension or for ihe 
period they were on strike. 


(E) That the period of suspension of the eight workmen shall be 
treated as “leave without pay’’. | 


Under the circumstances stated above, it 18 jointly prayed by both the 
parties that the dispute with reference-to the suspension of eight workmen 
referred for udjudication under issue No. 2 having been settled volun- 
tarily out of Tribunal, the Tribunal will be pleased to make an award in 
terms of the settlement arrived at between the parties with reference to 


issue No. 2 


And for this act of kindness your petitioner as in duty bound shall 
ever ‘pray. 


J. M-Kavt, ۱ K. J. Hott, 
President, Babcock & Wilcox Assistant Secretary, 
Workers’ Union. Babcock & Wilcox of India 


(Private), Ltd. 
Gour Mouan Dass, 


Secretary, Babcock & Wilcox 


Workers’ Union. 
G. 1১. MUKRAERITE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


ANNEXURE A 
To ۱ 
Messrs. BABCOCK & WILCOX or INDIA PRIVATE, LTD., 
4 BANKSHALL STREET, CaLcuTTa-l. 
SIR, 


the undersigned workman of the ‘godown’ situated at Hide Road,‏ با 
Calcutta, hereby undertake that without any prejudice to the write‏ 
application pending before the Hon’ble High Court, Calcutta, which has‏ 
been filed by Babcock & Wilcox Workers’ Union, I shall in future abide‏ 
by the terms of the award, dated 28th October 1954, published in the‏ 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3319. 


Calcutta Gazette Extraordinary, in be! her of Festival holidays for the 
“godown” workmen, and I further undertake that 1 shall not claim any 
wages for the period of my suspension or gaise any industrial dispute on 
that ground in future. 
(Signature) 

J. M. Kavt, 

Gour Mbuan Dass, 

Secretary. 7 

G. P, MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 8. ۶۰ MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 


No. 8560Dis./D/117.-91/56.— 13th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 4026Dis./D/ 
111.-286/54, dated the 30th August 1955, the industrial dispute between 
Messrs. Paharpur Timbers, Ltd., saw mill owners and timber engineers, 
Kidderpore, Caleutta-23 and their workmen represented by Paharpur Timber 
Mazdoor Sabha, J-535 Paharpur Road, Caleutta-24, regarding the matters 

ecified in the schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Second 
ndustrial Tribunal; 


And whereas the eaid Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs, Paharpur Timbers, 
Ltd., saw mill owners and timber engineers, Kidderpore, Calcutta-23 
and their workmen represented by Paharpore Timber Mazdoor Sabha, 
J-535 Paharpore Road, 631٤:4. 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
917] G. 1১, MUKHERJEE, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal, 


Apnearances : 
For the employees: Shri Patit Paban Pathak. 


For the Company: Shri K. K. Kapani, Industrial Relations Officer of the 
Company, Shri T, K. Jagdish, Labour Adviser of the Company, 


3820 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Pant 1 


By order No. peg pala و‎ {/11L-286/54, dated 30th August 19554 the 
Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, referred the above 
industrial dispute to this Tribunal for adjudication regarding the matter 
specified in the schedule below: | 


Schedule 
(1) Basic pay and scales of pay. 


AWARD 


It is not necessary for this Tribunal either to go into the facts of the 
dispute, or to enter into the merits of the case, as both parties have thus 
day filed a joint petition to the effect that the above dispute has been amicably 
settled between the parties. The terms of settlement duly signed by the 

arties have been embodied in Annexure to that joint petition. Heard the 
জলা representatives of both sides, and read and considered the terms of 
settlement, which appear to be fair and reasonable, and as such they are 
accepted. Accordingly, it 1s ordered that an award be passed in terms of 
the settlement arrived at between the parties. The said petition of com- 
promise and the terms of settlement as embodied in Annexure to that peti- 
tion will form part of this award. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge. 
3 8-56, 
G. 1১, MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Lndustrial Tribunal. 
The 3rd August 1956. 


Appendix | ۱ 
BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAT, TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL, 
CALCUTTA 


(Sun: G. P. MUKHERJEE, District Judge.) 


In the matter of an industrial dispute 
under Government order of reference 
No. 4026Dis. /D/11L-286/54 of 30th 
August 1956 

BETWEEN 

Messrs. Paharpur Timber, Limited, Oil | 
Installation Road,  Kidderpore, 
Calcutta-23 ..« Company, 

AND 


Their workmen as represented 107 the 
Paharpur Mazdoor Sabha, M-40 
Paharpur Road, Calcutta-24 

. Workmen. 


The joint petition of the parties above- 
named 
Most RESPECTFULLY SHEWETH— 
1. That the above dispute has been amicably settled between the 
parties. 
2. That the terms of settlement duly signed by the parties is annexed 
herewith. 


Parr 11 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 232] 


এপ্স পপ SSNS جا یٹھ ی٠ا٥ا خن٥ ح٠ 9ب۱ا سر سج درعھ جھ نج سی ےم جس جس ھی خح ۱ھ ھ سی ور ا0ط ز9 و اعد ح2‎ henson seston dro 


Wuder the circumstances, it is humbly prayed that your honour be 
pleased to approve of the terms of agreement and dispose of the reference 
finally in terms of the agreement. 


And for this your petitioners, as in 001% bound, shall ever pray. 
Calcutta, dated the 3rd day of August 1956. 


On behalf of the workmen, 
The Paharpur Timber Mazdoor Sabha, 
ک7‎ ۸3۲۸1۸۰۸17 Roy 
(Secretary). 


JIBAN CHAKRABARTY 
(President), 
Patir Panan ۰ 
On behalf of the Company, 
K. K. Kapant, 
Industrial Relations Adviser. 
T. K. JaAGvDEESH, © 
Labour Adwtser. 
0. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 


سس مىسے تسس 


Appendix 11 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Paharpur Timber, 
Limited, and their workmen as represented by the Paharpur Timber 
Mazdoor Sabha. 
| Terms of Agreement 


| 1. The Management and the Union agree and accept the following con- 
solidated wages to be introduced on the dates shown: 


{On and from.) 


Category. let August Ist January IgtJuly 186 Januar y 
1956. 1957. 1957, 1958. 
Rs. ap. Re. ap. Re a p. Re. a p 
Unskilled -۰ 7 20 0 2-1 0 2 2 0 24 0 
Semi-skilled | 7 7 2 6 0 2 7 0 2 8 0 210 0 
Skilled 7 7 210 0 211 6 213 0 3 0 0 
Highly skilled 7 7 314 0 315 0 4 0 0 4 2 0 


gubject to the proviso that— 


(i) such workers who do not get any increment, either direct or as ٭‎ 
result of categorisation, will get a flat increment of annas two om 
Ist January 1957 to cover up to Ist January 1958. 


(11) new recruits will enter at the wage slab shown under Ist August 
1956. 


(iii) though there are four wage slabs for each category of workers to 
take effect on four different dates, yet a worker if he can give 
or attain production level of 100 per cent. of the norm fixed by 
the Expert, even earlier than the scheduled dates, he will be 
eligible for the full wage of Rs, 2/4 for an unskilled worker 
and so on, which he normally would have enjoyed, only on Ist 
January 1958. : 


3322 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr 1 


হরে তায FSR 205 SER AG APE جح بے‎ 
দাও এস বাত کرک بد عو‎ উ ERD না পি 2 Mins এ ওক এপি a পি পপ পপ EE TE TB Mares dtl حیےلصصطدرب۔ پیھٗمےبپے٭پوجشیم‌مسہآمد‎ EIT, بہوت‎ 


2. The Management will immediately take up the work of categérisa- 
tion of workers with the aid of an Expert jointly selected by the Manage- 
ment and the Union. Before finally declaring the categorisation of workers, 
the Union will be given a chance to state its objections, if any, to the said 
এ for his consideration. The decision of the Expert will be final and 
absolute. 


__3. The Management will undertake a complete time and motion study, 
job evaluation and merit rating, ete., with the aid of the abovementioned 
Expert. The Union and the workmen will actively co-operate and partici- 
pate in this study and the implementation thereof, after the same received 
the approval of both the Management and the Union. 


4, The Union and the work men assure that the workmen will main- 
dain full efficiency, perfect discipline and normal work. Management 
also assures fullest co-operation in all matters. 


5. The Management and the Union will always settle their differences 
and disputes, if any, by peaceful and constitutional means of negotiations, 
conciliation, adjudication and arbitration, and both parties will maintain 
and promote industrial peace and mutual concord. ° 


6. The above wage conditions shall remain binding on both the parties 
up to 818۲ December 1958. 


7, There will be no curtailment in the existing rights and privileges 
enjoyed by both parties. 


On behalf of the Union 
Kamavapatr Roy 
On behalf of the Company, 


K, کا‎ Kapant, 
Dated this 8rd day of August 1956 in the presence of 


Patit Pasan ؟75‎ T. K. JAGDEESH 


G. P. MUKHERJEE, 
Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
The 38rd August 1956. 


(০০০০ 


By order of the Governor, 


D. §. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 
No. 3580Dis./D/4-6/56.—14th August 1956.—Whereas under the 


Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, order No. 1589Dis. | [)] 
41/-0150, dated the 19th April 1956, the industrial dispute between Messrs. 
Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Ltd., 3 Clive Row, Caleutta, and their workmen 
emploved in their launches represented by V. A. 5. T. Launches Workmen’s 
Union, 51 Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta-12, regarding the matters 5 ecified 
در‎ the schedule th®reto was referred for adjudication to the Second Industrial 
Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Second Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the annexure hereto. 


Part J] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ۸۱۲۱۱۲۷ 80 60 9১28 
পাঠা ১০০ روش تد 2ھ و مد ے رخ ا‎ 
ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an industrial dispute between Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. 
(india), Ltd., 3 Clive Row, Calcutta, and their workmen employed in 
their launches, represented by V. A. 5. T. Launches Workmen's Union, 
51 Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta-12. | 


পা اجکی‎ 


۲ 


BEFORE THE SECOND INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suri 0. P. MUKHERJER, Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal, 


Appearances: . 


For the employees: Shri Rajani Mukherjee, Vice-President, V. A. S. T. 
Launches Workmen’s Union. 


For the Company: Shri K. B. Basu, Bar.-at-Law, and Shri R. L. Maitra, 
| Acting Labour Adviser of I.J.M.A. 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Labour Department, by order 
No. 1589Dis./D/4L-6/56, duted 19th April 1956, referred under section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, f947, the industrial dispute existing between 
Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Ltd., 3 Clive Row, Calcutta, and their 
workmen represented by V. A. 8. I. Launches Workmen’s Union, 51 Chitta- 
ranjan Avenue, Calcutta-12, to this Tribunal for adjudication regarding the 
matters specified in the following schedule: 


৫ Schedule 
(1) Duty hours, 

(2) Grades and scales, 

(3) Annual inerement. 


The issues framed for adjudication were the same as (1996 mentioned 
above in the schedule. 


Notices were issued to the parties. The Union filed 163 written statement 
on 28th May 1956, -and the Company on 12th June 1956. The case was 
taken up for hearing on 28th July 1956, | 


The case of the launch crews in question as presented in the written 
statement filed on their behalf by the Union in short is that they have to 
work for 24 hours without any holiday or weekly rest, and that the existing 

rades and scales of their pay are low and not sufficient enough for their 

ecent living. Hence, the Union has demanded that their duty hours should 
be fixed at 8 hours daily and 48 hours weekly, and that the grades and scales 
of pay with provision for annual increment as stated in the written statement 
should be introduced with retrospective effect from J anuary 1954. 


The Company, in reply, resists the demands put forward on behalf of 
the launch crews. Regarding duty hours, the Company wants to say that 
nowhere among such crews or River Transport staff are working hours fixed, 
and that duty hours cannot be fixed, because such workers being tidal 
workers are expected to be available for duty according to navigational 
considerations of the river and during periods when they are expected to 


3324 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 380, 1956 [Parr I 


make trips to and from. the Calcutta Port area. Regarding wages, 0 
Company’s contention is that these launch crews, who have all along been 
considered by the Omnibus Jute Tribunal] awards as Jute Mall employees, 
have alrendy received substantial Increases in their pay, and as such are not 
entitled to any further increases in pay as claimed or to incremental scales 


ef ۰ 


The Company has further raised Jegal objections as to the maintainabilit 
of the present reference. In this respect its contention is two-fold. 
Firstly, it is contended that Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co, peso Ltd., who 
have been made a party to the present dispute, are not the employers of the 
concerned workmen, who are really the workmen of the Samnuggur Jute 
Factory Co., Lid., Titaghur Jute Factory Co., Ltd., Victoria Jute Factory 
Co., Ltd., and Angus Company, Ltd., and that in the circumstances the 
present reference is bad in Jaw and not maintainable. The second objection 
as raised on behalf of the Company is that the Jaunch crews in question have 
all along been considered by the Omnibus Jute Tribunal awards as Jute 
Mill employees for the purposes of the Tribunal, and have thus been given 
all wages, service condition, etc., applicable to Jute Mill employees, and 
have been specifically included in the occupational nomenclature of the 
First Omnibus Jute Tribunal Award (Appendix IV). The issues 2 and 3 
in the present reference regarding grades and scales of pay, and annual 
increment, are fundamentally questions of wages payable to these workmen, 
and as such were the subject-matter of reference to the Third Omnibus Jute 
Tribunal constituted by the Government in 1954, and in that reference the 
aforesaid Jute Mills, whose workmen these launch crews are, were parties. 
This Union under their leader, late Shafatullah Khan, put forward the 
question of grades and scales of pay and annual increment on behalf of these 
workmen, which was duly considered by the Tribunal. The Third Omnibus 
Jute Tribunal gave its award, which came into force on 6th November 1955. 
In that award, directions were given regarding wages of the cargo boat 
crews and their working hours, but the said Tribunal did not think it 
necessary to interfere with the existing wages of launch crews, for whom it 
awarded along with other workmen not specifically mentioned a general 
increase of Rs. 8 per month, All the Jute Mill companies have fully 
implemented that award, and all the launch crews have received an increase 
on the lines specified in the award with effect from 6th November 1955. The 
said award was the subject-matter of an appeal before the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal, which delivered its judgment on 3lst May 1956. The Appellate 
Tribunal confirmed the award, so far as the present workmen are concerned. 
Accordingly, it is contended by the Company that the aforesaid award of the 
Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal bars a fresh reference and a fresh adjudica- 
tion regarding issues 2 and 3, at least during the statutory period of its 
operation. 


As the validity and the propriety of the present reference were challenged 
by the legal objections raised on behalf of the Company, the Tribunal, at 
the desire of both parties, heard the said objection first.. Learned represen- 
tativeS of both sides addressed at length the Tribunal regarding maintain- 
ability of the reference in question. Both parties placed before the Tribunal 
some documents, which have been marked exhibits. The Company further 
gave the Tribunal the copies of awards of the Jute Textile Tribunals as well 
as the copy of the judgment of the Labour Appellate Tribunal on appeal from 
the award of the Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal. 


On a perusal of the relevant documents and after hearing the elaborate 
arguments of learned representatives of both sides, I am of the view that 
there is considerable force in the legal objections raised on behalf of the 


Parr 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 19568] 3325 


জে 


ae a) এপস 


Company as to the maintainability of the present reference, and that the 
said objections must prevail. On a consideration of the matter, the Tribunal 
18 convinced that the workmen in the instant case are not workmen of 
Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. ا‎ *Ltd., but they are workmen of 
Samnuggur Jute Factory Co., Lid., Titaghur Jute Factory Co., Ltd., 
Victoria Jute Factory Co., Lid., and Angus Company, Ltd., and that Messrs. 
Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Ltd., are the only beter et Agent of those 
Jute Mill companies. This is established from Exts. A and B. Exihibit A 
is a copy of the rules and regulations affecting the terms and conditions of 
service of the River Transport staff in the Thomas Duff group. It appears 
therefrom that this River Transport staff includes all crews of steam launches 
and cargo boats belonging to the companies, and that the general direction 
and control of such staff shall be exercised through authorised representatives 
of the companies concerned at the Head Office. It further appears there- 
from that at the Head Office of each company, a permanent register of all 
launch and cargo boat crews shall be maintained. Exhibit B is a sample 
service record card of a launch crew, in which it is clearly stated that he is 
in the service of a particular company—Angus Jute Works or the Angus 
Company, Ttd. Fhe Wage and Attendance Registers of these companies 
were also brought before the Tribunal at the time of hearing. Learned 
counsel appearing on behalf of Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Ltd., 
placed before me some of these bound registers. ‘They showed that these 
workmen used to get their wages from the concerned Jute Mill companies. 
Thus it 1s abundantly clear that Samnuggur Jute Factory Co., Lid., 
Titaghur Jute Factory Co., Ltd., Victoria Jute Factory .Co., Ltd., and 
Angus Company, Ltd., were really the employers of these workmen, and 
that Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Ltd.—their Managing Agent— 
used only to look after the day-to-day management of those Mill companies, 
and whatever they did they did it in the name of those companies. 
Learned spokesman of the Union produced a document, Ext, 1, for showing 
that what was being contended by the Company now was not correct. 1 
have perused the said document which is a written statement filed by 
Samnuggur Jute Factory Co., Ltd., in connection with an application 
under section 338A. But ] may say that nowhere in this written statement 
it is stated that the workmen concerned were employed under Messra. 
Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Litd., the Managing Agents. On the contrary, 
it is asserted there that the applicants are all the employees of Samnuggur 
Jute Factory Co., Ltd., and are under the direct control and discipline of 
the Head Office, and that Samnuggur Jute Factory Co., Ltd., through its 
Managing Agents, are the proper employers of the above workmen. So, 
this document does not help the workmen concerned. It, on the other hand, 
lends support to the contention of the Company. I, therefore, hold that 
Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. (India), Ltd., are not the employers of the 
concerned workmen. 


But the fact remains that the real employers of the concerned workmen 
are not parties to the present dispute. Messrs. Thomas Duff & Co. (India), 
Ltd., who have been mentioned as a party to the dispute, are not the 
employers of these workmen. It is very unfortunate that in spite of specific 
objection taken by the Company in their written statement filed on 12th 
June 1956, the Union took no steps whatsoever for making the Jute Mill 
companies mentioned above, under which the workmen concerned work, 
parties to the present dispute. It could have moved either the Government 
or the Tribunal in this respect, but nothing was done by it. Now what 
would be the legal position of the present reference? The Tribunal, in the 
absence of proper and. necessary parties to the dispute, cannot obviousl: 
make any award. Certainly it would not be just and proper for the Tribunal 


3326 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 


to do so. If any award is passed in the circumstances, such award canftot 
possibly be implemented, nor can any relief be secured from the appropriate 
parties, because such award canngt be binding on the concerned Jute Mull 
companies. Strictly speaking, an award, if made, will involve the 
liabilities of the said companies, but they being no parties to the present 
dispute can easily avoid such liabilities. There might be many complica- 
tions in future if an award is passed in absence of the proper and necessar 

parties. It is not, therefore, desirable that the Tribunal shal] = suc 

an award, which can neither be implemented nor can have any binding force 
and effect. In this view of the matter, I hold that the reference as made, 
and as it stood at the time of hearing, was bad in law and not maintainable. 
Learned spokesman of the Union has argued that section 10(1) of the Act 
gives the Government absolute power to make a reference, and that when 
the Government has made the reference, the Tribunal must give an award, 
and the validity of the reference cannot be questioned or canvassed. In 
reply to this argument, I would say that Government is only concerned with 
deciding whether an industrial dispute exists, and whether in_ the 
circumstances of the particular case it should be referred to a Tribunal. 
But once the reference is made, it is for the Tribunal te consider whether 
it should pass an award after considering the matter ow merits. Even in 
spite of the reference by the Government, the Tribunal could enquire and 
decide for itself whether it should assume jurisdiction over the subject- 
matter of the reference, and simply the fact that a reference has been made 
by the appropriate Government will not stand in the way of any enquiry 
by the Tribunal. <A duty is cast upon both the Government and the Tribunal 
to work gut the scheme of the Industrial Disputes Act. It might have 
escaped the notice of the Government while making the reference that the 
real employers of the concerned workmen were no parties to the present 
dispute, but that does not necessarily mean that the Tribunal shall also kee 

its eves shut regarding this broad and important fact, and pass an shorn 
knowing fully well that such an award cannot be enforced against the 
appropriate party in securing relief for the workmen concerned. Jf it be 
done, it will lead not only to chaos and absurdities, but it will also frustrate 
the scheme_.of the Act and defeat the purpose for which the Industrial 
Disputes Act has been enacted, namely, settlement of industrial disputes. 


Now, I will deal with other legal objection raised by the Company. It 
appears from the awards of the Omnibus Jute Tribunal that launch crewg in 
question have been considered all along as Jute Mill employees. These 
launch crews have been specifically included in the occupational nomenclature 
of the First Omnibus Jute Tribunal Award, vide Appendix 1V, page 138 of 
the said award. The Jute Mill companies, where these workmen are 
employed, were parties to all references made to the Omnibus Jute 
Tribunal. The last reference was made to the Tribunal constituted under 
the chairmanship of Shri M. C. Banerjee, and it is called as the Third 
Omnibus Jute Tribunal. Very recently, that Tribunal gave its award which 
came 1010 force with effect from 6th November 1955. The question of wages 
payable to these workmen was also the subject of reference to the Third 
Omnibus Jute Tribunal. It appears that the present Union under their 
leader late Janab Shafatullah Khan of the Howrah Zilla Chatkal Mazdoor 
Union submitted to that Tribunal what should be the grades and scales of 
pay and annual increments of these workmen, The Tribunal considered the 
same, and in its award gave directions regarding wages of the cargo hoat 
crews and their working hours, This would appear from page 61 of the 
said award. But the Tribunal did not think it necessary to disturb the 
existing wages of launch crews. Jt, however, awarded to them along with 
other workmen not specifically mentioned a general increment of Rs. 8 per 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3397 


কত‏ حسم জজ‏ جو اہ সিট শত hp‏ ہے 


month in basic wage. ٤ quote below what was said by the Tribunal in this 
respect [vide 9(7), page 74 of the said award]: 

“Any monthly paid workman, ‘who has not been covered by our 
observations in the preceding paragraphs, should be given an increment 
of Rs, 8 per month in his basic wage, and shall be paid a dearness 
allowance of Rs. 32-8 per month in place of Rs. 37-6.” 


The issues 2 and 3 of the present reference, which are regarding grades 
and scales of pay and নিপা increment, are fundamentally questions of 
wages puyable to these workmen. But it is abundantly clear from the award 
of the Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal that such questions were the subject of 
references to that Tribunal, which considered the same and gave its award, 
That award, as stated above, became operative with effect from 6th November 
1955. Although an appeal was preferred to the Labour Appellate Tribunal, 
the said Tribunal did not modify in any way the award, so far as the present 
workmen are concerned. Furthermore, the Labour Appellate Tribunal has 
clearly stated in paragraph 34 of its judgment that the appeal against the 
award related to the revision of basic wages and dearpess allowance of the 
workmen of all catekories in the Jute Textile Industry of West Bengal. The 
award of the said Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal is still in force and opera- 
tion. So, in view of what has been stated above, it must be held that the 
present reference relating to items of dispute as mentioned in issues 2 and 
8, 18 without jurisdiction, inasmuch as the said items of dispute are covered 
by the award of the Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal. In my view, this 
award of the Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal bars a fresh reference and a 
fresh adjudication in respect of issues 2 and 3, at least during the statutory 
period of its operation. Section 19(6) of the Act stands in the way. It 
might be that even after adjudication of an industrial dispute the parties 
may remain dissatisfied, and the industrial dispute may still continue in 
spite of the adjudication, but in the eye of law the industrial dispute must 
be deemed to have merged in the award and to have lost 118 existence. So 
long as the prior award is operative and. binding, neither the Government 
tan re-open the award just by a reference of the same matter to another 
Tribunal, nor can the parties avoid the consequence except strictly in the 
manner provided for under the law. During the operation of that award 
the Tribunal, in spite of the Government reference, wil] not be able to deal 
with the matter. It may amount not only to incompetence of the Tribunal 
for want of authority, but it may also amount to want of jurisdiction. So, 
this Tribunal cannot superimpose any award regarding issues 2 and 3 over 
another binding and operative award. The Tribunal, therefore. holds that 
it is not competent to adjudicate on the matter regarding grades and scales 
of pay and annual increment of these workmen as stated in issues 2 and 3, 
because such questions were the subject of the award of the Third Omnibus 
Jute Tribunal. It is true no doubt that the question of duty hours of these 
launch crews (which is issue No. ] in the present reference) was not the 
subject of reference to the aforesaid Third Omnibus Jute Tribunal, but this 
matter cannot be gone into and decided in this reference, because the real 
employers of the concerned workmen are not parties to the dispute. I have 
already recorded my reasons in this respect, and I do not like to repeat the 
same here. 


1 would, however, like to say a few words in this connection. Regard 
being had to the nature and condition of work of the launch crews, it is 
extremely difficult to fix duty hours for their work. Their work depends on 
the tides, and the launches and boats are their home for the period of their 
work. They are expected to be available for duty according to navigational 


considerations of the river. Their main work and duties consist in the 


3398 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 


| SS 
transhipment of goods to and from the respective mills, to and from other 
mills and the Caleutta Port area. It so happens that they are to remain 
idle for over a week at a time‘and also for months together, when their 
launches are laid up for repairs, etc., but without any loss in wages. 


The present reference is thus disposed of, 
Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. P, MUKHERJEE, 


Judge. 
G. P. MUKHERJEE, 


Judge, Second Industrial Tribunal. 
Lhe 31st July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 9. P. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 3547Dis./D/7L-22/56.—13th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, Order No, 1 
3JA-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with its Addendum No. 3537- 
Dis. /D/7TL-47/54, dated the 2181 July 1954 and its Corrigendum No. 41380- 
Dis. ods 11+47/64, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in 
the Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the jute mills mentioned 
in the list attached with the said Order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said Addendum, dated the 215 July 1954 and Corrigendum, dated the 
26th August 1954 and their workmen represented by the Unions and Federa- 
tions mentioned in the said Order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred 
for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M, C. Banerjee, 
District Judge (retired), as Chairman and Shri S,.C .Mukherjee, District 
Judge, as member; 


And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shri Gujor Singh, a workman of 
Belvedere Jute Mills, Sankrail, Howrah, before the said Tribunal against 
the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished the said 
workman concerned in such disputes; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal had adjudi- 
‘cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Gov- 
ernment ; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the Annexure hereto. 


Part 1] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 2329 


ANNEXURE 


jn the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Cujor Singh in connection with Covernment of 
West Bengal, Department of Labour, Order Nos. 1988Dis, /D/7L-48 
(A) /53, 2329Dis. /D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis./D/7L. 
47/54 and 4130Dis. /0/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 
12th July 1954, 215 July 1954 and 26th August 1954 respectively 
referring certain industrial disputes hetween 101 Jute mills 
in West Bengal including Messrs. Belvedere Jute Mills and their work. 
men (Case No. 271 of 1955 under section 33A). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT : 
Surt M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (retired), Chairman. 


For the workman: Shri §. C. Mukherji, Lawyer, Shri Nikhil Roy, 
Advocate. 


For the jute mill: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by 
Order No. 1988Dis. /D/7-48(A) /53, dated 7th April 1954, Order No. 2829- 
Dis. বর ated 6th May 1954, Order No. 3398Dis./D/3A-10/54, 
dated 12th July 1964, Order No. 3537 Dis. /1)/7L-47/64, dated 21st July 1954 
and Order No. 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referred 
under sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), 
the industrial dispute between 101 specified jute mills and their workmen 
regarding some matters specified in a Schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The Award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was pub- 
lished in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


On 7th October 1955 Shri Gujor Singh apphed under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) and stated as follows: 


The opposite party Company taking advantage of sickness of the peti- 
tioner and on wrong information, charge-sheeted the petitioner on 24th 
September 1955. The petitioner was called at an enquiry, which was 
illegal, and improper. The petitioner was not given an opportunity to 
defend his case. The petitioner was not guilty of the charges as alleged 
against him. The petitioner has been kept suspended for an unlimited 
period of time which was a violation of section 38 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. The petitioner, therefore, prays for an order to direct the Company 
to reinstate the petitioner with full wages and allowances for the period of 
forced unemployment. 


The Company in its written statement stated as follows: 


The application of the petitioner 1s misconceived, and not maintainable 
in law as the Company has not, in any. way, violated seciont 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. The Company has already filed an application 
under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act on Ist November 1955 seek- 
ing permission from the Tribunal to dismiss the petitioner. Pending such 


3330 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 [Parr T 


2 oy رش‎  ں‎ nome তি আিউ় 


কী 


জাপা eo espana কস ary 
ئی‎ ও ہے _۔'_‎ etn গাজা prem on itl ay উ x 


ed 
Re BIR جس‎ 


٦ے‏ س ي سے 


permission he was suspended. Without prejudice to the preliminary objec- 
tion the Company reserves the right to file,» supplementary statement 
should, that beeome necessary aftef the preliminary legal objection regarding 
the maintainability of the application has been disposed of by the Tribunal. 


‘The points that arise for decision are as follows: 


(1) Is the petition under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
maintainable? 


(2) Is the petitioner entitled to get any reliet in this case? 


DECISIONS 


Point Nos, 1 and 2.—Exhibit B shows that the Company filed an appli- 
cation under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act for permission to 
terminate the services of the petitioner, Shri Gujor Singh, on the ground 
of misconduct. The application states that at 10.5 p.m. on edrd September 
1955 the petitioner was found sleeping while on duty and that the said 
act of the petitioner is a misconduct under rule 14(C)(IX) of the Standing 
Orders. The charge-sheet was served on the petitioner on 24th September 
1955. The petitioner submitted his explanation and the Manager after 
holding an enquiry ordered that the petitioner should be dismissed but until 
the permission of the Tribunal was obtained he should continue to be 
suspended. Qn these facts the Company prayed for permission to dismiss 
the petitioner. The application, Exhibit B, also shows a copy of the charge- 
sheet on the petitioner and his explanation. A copy of the said charge- 
sheet also shows the Manager’s decision made on 28th September 1955. 
Exhibit A is an order of the Tribunal, dated 7th November 1955, showing 
that as the Award in the proceedings arising out af the Order of Reference 
in the main case was published in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 
1955, the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to deal with the application under 
section 33 of the Act. The application was, therefore, struck off. It has 
been decided by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India, Limited, reported in 1955 1.۵۸.08. page 221, that it is the 
contravention by the employer of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, that gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the workman to 
approach and move the Tribunal and this contravention is the condition 
precedent to the exercise by the Tribunal of the additional jurisdiction 
under section 335A of the Act. It is, therefore, clear that aos the opposite 
party Company applied under section 33 of the Act for permission to ter- 
minate the services of the petitioner, no contravention of section 33 of the 
Act was committed by the opposite party. The present complaint under 
3A of the Act was, therefore, not competent, and should be rejected. 


section 3: ۱ 
The sk ogre is, therefore, not entitled to any relief. These points are 


accordingly answered. 


It ts, therefore, awarded that the application under section 338A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, be rejected. 


M. C, BANERJI, 
Chairman. 


The 1st August 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 
1), 9. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


Part J] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3331 


সা جاک وت ہوا‎ ۱ মাপ পল 
ce =| .کت‎ a RN বা রস ৬ পক RPGS eRe ca eS SD a TS: لے‎ 


ORDER 
No. 3046Dis. /D/7L-22 /56:-—183th Augyst 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, Order No. 38393Dis. = | 
3A-10/54, dated the 12th July 1954, read with ita Addendum No. 3537)is. 
[D/ 71-47 /54, dated the 218 July 1954 and its Corrigendum No. 4130Dis. 
gpI 7147/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industria] disputes in the 
ute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the jute mills mentioned in 
the list attached with the said Order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the said Addendum, dated the 218٦ July 1954 and Corrigendum, dated the 
26th August 1954 and their workmen represented by the Unions and Fede- 
rations mentioned in the said Order, dated the 12th July 1954, were 
referred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri ‘N. C. Banerjee, 
District Judge (Retired), as Chairman and Shri 9. C. Mukherjee, District 
Judge, as member; 


And whereas during pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal a 
complaint in writing was made by Shri Nagendra Nath Surai, a workman 
of Fort William Jute Mills, Sibpur, Howrah, before the said Tribunal 
against the said Company alleging that the said Company had punished the 
said workman concerned in such disputes; 


And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Gov- 
ernment; 


_ Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor 1a pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown in the Annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shri Nagendra Nath Surai in connection with Cov- 
ernment of West Bengal, Department of Labour, Order Nos. 1988Dis. 
/D/7L-48(A) /53, 2329Dis./D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis. /D/3A-10/54, 3537 
015,110 171-.47154 and 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 
6th May 1954, 12th July 1954, 21st July 1954 and 26th August 1954 
respectively referring certain industrial disputes between 101 Jute mills 
in West Bengal including Messrs. Fort William Jute Mills and their 
workmen (Case No. 146 of 1955 under section 33A). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 


PRESENT: 
Suri M. 0. BANERJI, District Judge (retired), Chairman, 


For the workman: Shri H. L. Roy, Pleader. 
For the jute mall: Shri R. L. Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association, 


3332 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Paar 1 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour, by Order 
No, 1988Dis. /D)/71L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, Order No. 2329)is. /D 
TL-47/54, dated 6th May 1954, Order No. 3893Dis./D/3A-10/54, date 
12th July 1954, Order No, 38537Dis./D/71.-47/654, dated 21st July 1954 and 
Order No. 41 30Dis. /D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referred, under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial. Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between 101 specified jute mills and their workmen 
regarding sume matters specified in a Schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The Award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was pub- 
lished in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955. 


On 9th June 1955 Nagendra Nath Surai, a workman of Messrs. Fort 
William Jute Mills applied under section 38A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) and stated as follows: 


During the pendency of the proceedings before the Tribunal, the opposite 
party Company by a notice, dated 17th November 1954, laid off the peti- 
tioner without any justification. The petitioner denies the allegation 
against him as stated in the notice, and says that the action of the Com- 
pany in laying off the petitioner was mala fide, The i wars party did not 
pay the petitioner any lay-off compensation as promised in the notice of the 
17th November 1954 for a long time since then. The petitioner applied for 
payment of compensation and was paid 50 per cent. of the wages for 45 days 
only. On 30th May 1965 the petitioner applied to the Company for pay- 
ment of dues as decided by the Hon’ble Labour Appellate Tribunal of India 
in ‘‘Automobile Products of India, Ltd.’’ case, reported in 1954, L. A. C. 
page 871. The petitioner submits that the Company’s notice of lay-off, and 
the non-payment of dues in terms thereof, are illegal and mala fide and 
amount to a contravention of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. The petitioner, therefore, claims full wages for the period of lay-off, 
and any other relief as may be deemed fit and proper. 


Lhe Company in its written statement stated as follows: 


The petition under section 338A of the Industria] Disputes Act, 1947, 
ig misconceived, and 18 not maintainable in law as the Company has not, 
In any way, violated section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. The peti- 
tion filed by Shri Nagendra Nath Surai contains various vague, misleading 
and incorrect allegations, and the Company denies the same. The facts of 
the case are as follows: On 12th November 1954 Shri Nagendra Nath Surai 
was examined by the Mill Medical Officer and was found medically unfit to 
continue his work asa mistry. Shri Nagendra Nath Surai was 65 years old 
when he was medically examined. As the workman was found medically 
unfit for further service, he was laid-off pending the permission of the Tri- 
bunal to terminate his services and he has been paid lay-off compensation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) 
Act: The question of violation of section 33 of the Act does not arise in this 
case, and that the petitioner is not entitled to full wages or any other relief 
as claimed by him. The Company, therefore, prays that the application 
should be rejected. 


The points that arise for decision are— 


(1) Is the petition under section 383A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
maintainable? 


(11) Is the petitioner entitled to any relief in this ۶ءء‎ 


Part T) THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 - 38 


DECISION 


Point No. 1.—Exhibit 18108 that the Company filed an application 
under section 33 of the Act for permission *to terminate the services of the 
petitioner Shri Nagendra Nath Surai on medical ground on account of 
continued ill health. Annexure ‘'A”’ of Exhibit 1 1s the report of the 
Medical Officer. This report states that Shri Nagendra Mistry was aged 
65 years by his own statement, and also in the opinion of doctor, that he 
was suffering from breathlessness and senile debility, and was, therefore, 
unfit to carry on the work of a mistry. Annexure “B’ to Exhibit 1 is the 
notice, dated 17th November 1954, for laying off the petitioner till per- 
mission 18 obtained from the ‘Tribunal for termination of his’ services. 
Exhibit 2 18 an order of the Tribunal, dated 7th November 1955, showing 
that as the Award im the proceedings arising out of the Order of Reference 
in the main case wag ahead in the Calcutta Gazette, dated 6th October 
1955, the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to déal with the application under 
section 83 of the Act. The application was, therefore, struck off. It has 
been decided by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Automobile 
Products of India, Limited, in 1955 L. A. C. page 221, that it is the 
contravention by the employer of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, that gives rise to a cause of action in favour of the workman to 
approach and move the Tribunal and this contravention is the condition 
precedent to the exercise by the Tribunal of the additional jurisdiction 
under section 38۸ of the Act. It is, therefore, clear that as the opposite 
party Company applied under section 33 of the Act for permission to termi- 
nate the services of the petitioner, no contravention of section 93 of the Act 
was committed by opposite party. The present complaint under section 934. 
of the Act was, therefore, not competent, and should be rejected. This 
point is accordingly answered, 


(৯: Point No, 2.—From what has been decided in the foregoing point, it is 
‘clear that the petitioner is not entitled to any relief in the proceeding. It 
may also be added that his prayer for lay-off compensation for the entire 
period of lay-off or, in other words, beyond the first 45 days, is not worth 
of support. The petitioner cited the decision of the Hon’ble Labour Appel- 
late Tribunal in the case reported in 1954 L. A. ©., page 871, in his 
petition. This decision supports the claims of the petitioner, but the decision 
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, reported in 1956(1) L. L. J., page 749, in 
the case of Modi Food Products, Ltd., negatives the claim of the petitioner 
In view of the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter, the 
petitioner is not entitled to get any relief, even on merits. 


In the result, the application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, 18 rejected. 


M. C. BANERJI, 


Chairman, 
The 2767 July 1956. 


By order of the Governor, 


D. 8. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


سسمس مب سض مد تاخفدسئی یح طط سے یلیب سی وس سس تھے یپ لے سی مہ eggpeprmprepetiinasias ts‏ شس 


$334. THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1966 [Pant 1 


ORDER 


— No. 3648Dis. /D/7L-22/56.—13th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, L&bour Department, Order No. 3893Dis. /D/ 
JA-10/54, dated the Leth J uly 1954, read with its Addendum No, 8۰ 
{D/7L-47/54, dated the 2181 July 1954, and its Corrigendum No. 4130Dis. 
[D/7L-47/54, dated the 26th August 1954, the industrial disputes in the 
Jute Textile Industry in West Bengal between the jute mills mentioned in 
the list attached with the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, read with 
the suid Addendum, dated the 21st July 1954, and Corrigendum, dated the 
26th August 1964, and their workmen represented by the Unions and 11906. 
rations nientioned in the said order, dated the 12th July 1954, were referred 
for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. C. Banerjee, 
District Judge (retired), as Chairman and Shri 8. C. Mukherjee, District 
Judge, 85 member; 

And whereas during the pendency of proceedings before the said Tribunal 
a complaint in writing was made by Shrijukta Shyamrajia, a workman of 
Hukumchand Jute Mills, post office ee 24-Parganns, before the said 
Tribunal against the said Company alleging that the said Company had 
discharged the said workman coneerned in such disputes; 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 383A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XTV of 1947), the said Tribunal has adjudi- 
cated upon the said complaint and submitted its award to the State Gov- 
ernment; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased hereby 
to publish the said award as shown 11) the annexure hereto, 


ANNEXURE 


In the matter of an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, filed by Shyamrajia in connection with Covernment of West 
Bengal, Department of Labour, Order Nos. 1988Dis. /D | 7L-48(A) /53, 
2329Dis. /D/7L-47/54, 3393Dis./D/3A-10/54, 3537Dis./D/7L-47/ 54, 
and 4130Dis. /D /7L-47/54, dated 7th April 1954, 6th May 1954, 12th 
July 1954, 2151 July 1954 and 26th August 1954, respectively, referring 
certain industrial disputes between 101 jute mills in West Bengal 
including Messrs Hukumchand Jute Mills and their workmen (Case 
No. 398 of 1955 undey section 33A). 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAI TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL 
PRESENT : 
Sarr M. C. BANERJI, District Judge (retired), Chairman. 


For the workman: Shn J. Pandey. 


For the jute mall: Shri R. [ Moitra of Indian Jute Mills Association. 
assisted by Shri Sibdas Ghosh, Labour Officer. 


AWARD 


The Government of West Bengal, in the Department of Labour by Order 
No. 1988Dis. /D/7L-48(A)/53, dated 7th April 1954, Order No. 2329Dis. { 1 
7L-47/54, dated طا6‎ May 1954, Order No. 33893Dis./D/3A-10/54, dated 12t 
July 1954, Order No. 3637Dis./D/71-47/64, dated 21st July 1954 and 
Order No. 4130Dis./D/7L-47/54, dated 26th August 1954, referred under 
sections 7 and 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
industrial dispute between 101 specified jute mills and their workmen 


Part ]] THE OAICUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3335 


পা‏ جج সানি‏ بعر ہے ہے دہ ۔وسسسممسے নার অ+‏ سسپی ہسوسو تو یا مگ 


refording some matters specified in a schedule to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation. The Award of this Tribunal in respect of this proceeding was pub- 
lished in the Culeutta Gazette, dated 6th October 1955, | 


On 601 November 1955 Shyamrajia, token No. 129, an مو‎ of 
Messrs. Hukumchand Jute Mills, apphed under section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), stating as followa: 


The petitioncr has been in the employment of the opposite party 
Company, Messrs. Hukum Chand Jute Mills since 1920. The opposite 
party Company served the petitioner with a notice of termination of 
ডিক on the 25th August 1954. The petitioner challenged the 
authority of the Company to so terminate her services. The petitioner 
also challenged her service record, and prayed for rectification of the 
record by changing the date of joining from 1941 to 1920. The opposite 
party Company granted an extension of service to the petitioner and 
locked out her as from 16th January 1955. It is, therefore, prayed 
that the Tribunal should direct rectification of date of Joining from 
1941 to 1920 and also for reinstatement of the petitioner with retros- 
pective effect. It 1s also prayed that failing reinstatement, the Tribunal 
should direct payment of all privileges and compensation on retrench- 
ment under the Industrial Disputes Act, counting the service as having 
commenced from 19230, 


The Company in its written statement states as follows: 


The application of the petitioner under section 338A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act is not maintainable in law as the Company has not, in 
any way, violated section 88 of the Industrial Disputes Act. Accord- 
ing to the Company’s record Shyamrajia joined the Hukumehand Jute 
Mills in 1941, and not im 1920 as alleged by her. When jt was found 
that Shyamrajia, who was already 69 years of age, was not capable of 
doing her job due to old age and infirmities, she was informed that it 
was desirable for her to retire on receipt of retiral benefits in accordance 
with the terms of the Award. She was also given 16 weeks’ time to 
make up her mind. She was not reluctant to retire, but she disputed 
the length of her service as recorded in her service card. On the expiry 
of 16 weeks’ time she was allowed to continue her work but, it was 
obvious that it was desirable that she should retire. The claim of the 

etitioner for retrenchment compensation as laid down in the Industrial 
aed (Amendment) Act is untenable. She was informed that her 
age and physical condition warranted her retirement. The claim for 
reinstatement of an old worker 901 her age is untenable, and the ques- 
tion of paying retrenchment compensation to the petitioner does not 
arise. The claim of the worker for changing of service record ig also 
untenable as it cannot be entertained by the Tribunal. 


On the date of hearing, on Ist August 1956 the parties apneared, and 
the petitioner submitted a petition before the Tribunal withdrawing the 
application under section 88۸ of the Industrial Disputes Act on the ground 
that she has already retired from service. This petitién appears in the 
Appendix ‘‘A’’ to this Award. It is, therefore, clear that there ‘is no dis- 
pute between the parties which require adjudication hy the Tribunal. The 
petitioner is, therefore, allowed to withdraw the complaint under section 
30۸ of the Industrial Disputes Act, and it is awarded accordingly. 


The petition of withdrawal marked as Appendix ‘‘A’’ shall form a part 
of this Award. চা | 
M. C. BANERJT, 


Chairman. 


The 3rd August 1966. 


388৫ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 [Parr I 


APPENDIX A 
BEFORE THE JUDGE, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 


In the matter of petition under section 33A of 
Industral Disputes Act 


Salnrajla i = Petationer, 
VETSUS 
Hukumehand Jute Mills ... Opposite party, 


The petitioner having retired from service begs for permission to with- 
draw the petition which she hereby does. | 


It is further prayed that an award be made accordingly. 


T. I. of Shamrajia.‏ .ا 


' M. C. BANERJI, 


Chairman, Jute Teatile Tribunal. 
The 3rd August 1956. 


By order of the (Governor, 


D. ১. P. MUKHERJEE, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

No. 3646Dis. /D/4L-12/55.—20th August 1956.—Whereas under the 
Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, Order No. 2547Dis. /D/ 
41-12 |55, dated the 8th June 1955, the industrial dispute between Shri P. K. 
Chatterji, owner of bus No. WBU-825, of 156 Upper Circular Road, room 
Nos. 28 and 24, Calcutta, and his two employees mentioned in the schedule 
thereto represented by Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union, 342/1 Grand 
Trunk Road, Salkia, Howrah, regarding the matters specified in the 
schedule thereto was referred for adjudication to the Fifth Industral 
Tribunal; 

And whereas the said Fifth Industrial Tribunal has submitted to the 
State Government its award on the said industrial dispute; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Governor is pleased 
hereby to publish the said award as shown in the Annexure hereto. 


ANNEXURE 


in the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Shri P. K. Chatterji, 
owner of the bus No. WBU 325 of 156 Upper Circular Road, room 
Nos. 23 and 24, Calcutta, and his two employees mentioned in the 
schedule, represented by the Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union of 
842:1 Crand Trunk Road, Salkia, Howrah. 


BEFORE THE FIFTH INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, WEST BENGAL. 
PRESENT ; 
Suri G. PALIT, Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal. 
For the Union: Shri Saroj Ghosal of the Union and Shri Prodip Sen, 
President, Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union. 


For the Company: Shri A. Gan, General Secretary of the Joint Service 
Committee. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 6 8337.‏ (1 ۲ ھ۲۸ 


+ ں بش ےش کے ۔ جک ےر وج ےم ہت تہ پش ہی ہو ہہ‎ boheme map henation Amen Bie laa 


72 By Government Order No. 2547Dis./D/41-12/55, dated the 8th 
June 1955, the aforesaid dispute has been referred to the Fifth Industrial 
Tribunal, presided over by me, for adjudication under section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947). The said Fifth Industrial 
Tribunal was constituted under section 7 of the Act by the notification 


No, 3581lLab., dated the 9th June 1951. 


2. The reference was received here on 15th June 1955. After usual 
notices the Union filed written statement on 25th July 1955. The employer 
filed written objection on 15th September 1955. Then after several 
adjournments the case was taken up for hearing on 7th June 1956. The 
evidence was concluded on that day. The argument was heard partly, on 
18th June 1956 and finally on 24th July 1956. The award was reserved. 


3. The only issue contained in the schedule to the Order of Reference 
stands as follows :— 


(1) If the discharge of (1) Shri Sukha Ranjan Chakraborty and (2) 
Shri Bharat Tala was justified, to what relief includin 
reinstatement and/or any other compensation are they entitled f 


AWARD 


4. Before ] discuss the issue in question, J would like to preface it by 
a brief history of the dispute, as I find from the written statement of the 
parties before the Tribunal. 


According to the Union, this Howrah District Bus Workers’ Union was 
formed on 9181 May 1954. The Union comprised among its members the 
conductors, drivers and cleaners numbering about 330 of the 84 buses 
plying in the routes Nos. 51, 54, 56 and 60. Thereafter when the Union 
found that the employers were in no mood to redress the grievances of the 
workers who were being exploited by them, it submitted a charter of 
demands both to the Assistant Labour Commissioner, Howrah, and to the 
individual owners of buses including Shri P. K. Chatterji of the bus 
No. WBU 825 of the present case on 25th August 1954. Shri Sukharanjan 
Chakravorty, the driver of the bus owned by Shri P. K. Chatterji above, 
happened to be the Vice-President of the Union. Bharat Lala was another 
driver of this employer. He was also an active organiser of the Union. 
It so happened that during the period between 9181 May 1954 and 6th 
September 1954 as many as 18 workmen of the buses in the aforsaid routes 
were discharged by their employers without any notice and without any 
charge-sheet. No reason was assigned for their discharge. Then their 
cause was espoused by Shri Sukharanjan Chakravorty and one Shri Mrinal 
Bose, and they moved the District Magistrate and the R.T.A. in the matter 
in September 1954. Eventually in course of conciliation proceedings, 
those 18 workmen were reinstated in their service in November 1954. But 
when the above conciliation proceedings were in progress, Shri Sukha- 
ranjan Chakravortv himself and Bharat Lala aforesaid were dismissed from 
their service on 14th September 1954 and 26th September 1954 respectively 
by their emplover Shri P. K. Chatterj). Bharat Lala was thereafter 
re-employed in service, but he was deprived of any compensation for the 
unemployment period. Thus has arisen the present dispute. Bharat Lala 
has since died after his re-employment. ; 


The employer contends that he is a political sufferer, and a refugee from 
Kast Bengal. He purchased the aforesaid bus at a cost of Rs. 32,000 
payable in instalments. But his transport business proved to be a losing 


3338 THE CATILUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 


ہیی جج 


রব রর 1‏ ہے 
পপ স্পা এপস পারা ০০০‏ رد دوہ جد ور ہن رانا 9ناج باہش یو تح ۱ا9 نے ےس سے ے سے سر 


Bharat Lala was also dismissed for misconduct, but he was re-employed 
on his জগ regret and apology. He has since died. The claim for 
compensation and reinstatement is resisted by the employer. 


Later on, the employer has taken certain legal objections, viz., 


(1) that the present dispute is an “individual dispute’, and not an 
‘industrial dispute’. So the Tribunal is not competent to 
adjudicate upon it; and 


(2) that Shri Sukharanjan Chakravorty after his dismissal has become 
an ex-workman and, as such, he is not a ‘‘workman’’ as defined 
in the Act. So he is not competent to raise a dispute against 
the employer after his dismissal. 


Now, let. me dispose of the legal objections first. The position in law is 
now pretty well established. If a dispute is originally an ‘‘individual 
dispute’’, and af it continues as such up to the date of reference, then it 
will not be an industrial dispute. The Tribunal] will not be competent to 
adjudicate upon it in spite of the same heing described as an ‘‘industrial 
dispute’? in the Order of Reference. The latest decision on this point by 
the Hon’ble Calcutta High Court is reported at page 865 of the Calcutta 
Weekly Notes of July 1956, Volume LX in the case of Bengal Club, Ltd. 
and Santi Ranjan. If the workmen or other fellow workmen espouse the 
cause of the workman concerned, then the individual dispute develops into 
a collective dispute where the Tribunal has jurisdiction to adjudicate upon 
the same. If any authority is needed, I can refer to the famous observa- 
tion of Mr. Justice Mack of the Madras High Court in the case of Kandan 
Textile, Ltd. versus Industrial Tribunal. I quote from his observation as 


below: 


“Tf euch a dismissal, however, even of an individual workman is taken 
up by Workers’ Union or a substantial body of workmen who 
continue in employment and espouse his cause, then an industrial 
dispute may arise.” 


To the same effect is the observation of Their Lordships of the Allahabad 
High Court in an application for writ in the form of mandamus under 
Article 226 of the Constitution of India No. 851 of 195) in the case of 
Ganesh Das Ramgopal] versus the Government of the State of Uttar Pradesh. 
Now, if I turn to the evidence, I find that the case of Shri Sukharanjan 
Chakravorty was taken up by the Union long before the date of reference, 


Pary 1۱| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 380, 1956 3339 
Kven a strike was contemplated by the Union on this issue (vide para- 
graph 4 of the proceedings of the tripartite conference held by the A.L.C., 


Howrah, on 8th November 1954 (Ext. 2Y. The said paragraph runs as 
follows :-— 


“‘As regards Sukharanjan, Bharat and Mrinal, as employers cannot 
agree to reinstate them it is proposed that the dispute over their 
dismissal be referred to a Tribunal for adjudication, on the 
ee that the Union will withdraw the contemplated 
strike.’ | 


Sukharanjan’s name also finds mention in the letter of the President of the 
Union addressed to the A.L.C., dated 21st September 1954 [Ext. 2(a)]. 
So it is clear that the dispute centring round the dismissal of Shri Sukha- 
ranjan Chakravorty and Bharat Lala was espoused by the Union long before 
the date of reference. The date of the present reference is the 8th June 
1955. So it is clear that the present dispute, though originally it was an 
individual dispute, ultimately developed into a collective dispute. As such, 
it is an industrial dispute, and the Tribunal has jursdicton to adjudicate 
upon it. The employer contends that there is no evidence that the employees 
in question gave any written authority to the Union to take up their case. 
That is not necessary. A Union is constituted to redress the grievances 
of the workmen. So where it tukes up the cause of any workman against 
the employer, such authorisation must be presumed in every case. So this 
contention is disposed of. 


The second legal objection is that Shri Sukharanjan and Bharat Lala 
ere ex-employees on the date of reference. So they were not ‘‘workmen’’ 
dates the Act. But if we refer to the definition of “workmen’’ in section 
2৪) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, we find that a workman discharged 
during the dispute also comes within the defimtion of ‘‘workman’’. In 
this extended sense the present workmen are attracted by the said definition. 
The evidence is clear that they were dismissed when there was a_pre- 
existing dispute pending before the Conciliation Officer. I may also refer 
to the case of India Paper Pulp Co., Ltd. versus Workers’ Union reported 
in L. I. J. 1955, paze 541. So this contention cannot hold water. 


Next I turn to the evidence to consider the merits of the case. It 1s 
admitted that none of these two workmen was given any charge-sheet. No 
reason was assigned for their discharge. Sukbaranjan in his evidence says 
that when he went to join bis work on 14th September 1954 after his hath, 
he was suddendly told by Shri P. K. Chatterji, the employer, that his 
services would no longer be required. He demanded 4 charge-sheet which 
was sternly refused. The employer, P.W. 1, says that he dismissed 
Sukharanjan for his bad driving and for putting him into troubles on three 
occasions when he did not pay the prices of petrol, and also for causing loss 
to him in the matter of tyre vulcanizing, and also for misappropriation of 
money by the conductor in collusion with Sukharanjan. But I find from 
the evidence that none of these charges has been substantiated. In the 
watter of misappropriation of money, the employer admits that the conduc- 
tor returned the entire money. So the money alleged to have been 
misappropriated did not come from Sukharanjan. It is also stated that 
Sukharanjan was also pardoned on that occasion, The employer Shri P. K. 
Chatterji admits also that in the matter of discharge of Sukharanjan, he 
took into consideration all his past offences which he had _ previously 
pardoned. So it appears that he auddenly raked all the past sins of Sukha- 
ranjan, if there were any, and dismissed him. The employer does not say 
what was the present provocation that led him to take such an action. | 


40 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 = [Parr I 


ately ES ےی سم‎ 


en] +,‏ جیےے 
ای 


مسسمیٔمٔصحسىسمسحح دسج 


think that the present provocation lay in the fact that Shri Sukharanjan 
Chakravorty was the Vice-President of the Union. The employers were 
not slow to realise that if the'Union became strong, they would become 
week. They had an organisation of their own, but still they did not feel 
secure. So Shri Sukharanjan Chakravorty was victimised by dismissal. 
When no present fault whet be picked up on the part of Shri Sukharanjau 
such as to justify the employer’s action, the employer fell back on his past 
acts of omission and commission. Strangely enough, though Shri Sukha- 
ranjan appeared to be so very delinquent, yet no warning was given to him 
at any time in writing. So I have no means to find whether these alleged 
charges for offences have been set up only when the employer found him- 
self in a tight corner. The employer says that Shri Sukharanjan was a 
temporary hand working for 11 years, and so he could be dismissed at the 
employer's pleasure. I have got in evidence that in this bus service no man 
is made permanent. So I have to suppose that the destiny of the employees 
here, no matter for how long they serve, lies on the sweet will and whim 
of employers. This is certainly not a situation which can be viewed with 
any equanimity by an Industrial Tribunal. So 1 am not prepared to accept 
this plea of the employer as a justification for causing Sukharanjan’a 
discharge. Shri Sukharanjan Chakravorty is said to be a rash driver, but 
there is no record of any police case against him, That he misappropriated 
the money of petrol remains to be proved. ‘he employer admits that there 
is nothing in writing regarding the tyre vulcanizing atory. So in the 
circumstances, I set aside the order of discharge or dismissal on Shri Sukha- 
ranjan Chakravorty in the present case. 


Regarding Bharat Lala, I get in evidence that he was re-employed and 
that later on he went home and died there. So it 1s clear that he nequiesced 
in the circumstances and did not claim any compensation. I cannot allow 
this matter to be revived after this length of time. So I can grant no relief 
‘to Bharat Lala either by way of reinstatement or by way of compensation. 


Regarding Shri Sukharanjan Chakravorty,, I award that he must be 
reinstated within one month of the award coming into operation. He is 
ranted compensation at the rate of half his average monthly earnings 
uring last two months just before this discharge or dismissal, from 
l4th sel 1954 up to the date of his reinstatement in service. This 
amount should be paid in three equal monthly instalments. Regarding 
inability to pay compensation, I do not find that the employer has made 
out any case. Besides, the employer has got to blame himself for this 
penalty. As Shri Sukharanjan Chakravorty did not render any service to 
the employer during this period, and also because he earned something by 
casual work during this time, I do not grant him more than half average 
wages as above. 


Dictated and corrected by me. 


G. PALIT, 
Judge. 
G. PALIT, 


| Judge, Fifth Industrial Tribunal 
The tnd August 1956. | 


By order of the Governor, 
D. 5. P. MUKHERJER, Jt. Secy. 


Parr I] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1986 9341 


COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES 
DEPARTMENT 


Mines and Power 
NOTIFICATION 


No. 38201M.P.—27th August 1956.—In exercise of the power conferred 
by section 3 of the Indian Klectricity Act, 1910 (1X of 1910), the Governor 
is pleased to grant to the Chandannagore Klectricity Supply Company 
(Private), 1460.) having its registered office at 17 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta, 
the following license to supply energy in the area specified therein سے‎ 


THE GCHANDANNACORE ELECTRIC LICENSE, 1956 


License for the supply of electrical energy granted by the Covernment of 
West Bengal under he Indian Electricity Act, 1910. 


Subject to the provisions of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910. (Act IX 
of 1910) and the পি (Supply) Act, 1948 (Act LIV of 1948), license 
is hereby granted to the Chandannagore Electric Supply Co. (Private), Ltd., 
having its registered office at 17 Mangoe Lane, Calcutta, to supply electrical 
energy in the area with the powers and upon the terms and _ conditions 
specified below :—~ 


Short Title 
1. This license may be cited as ‘‘The Chandannagore Electric License, 
1956.” 
| interpretation 


2. The several words, terms and expressions to which by the Indian 
Klectricity Act, 1910, the rules thereunder, and the Electricity (Supply) 
Act, 1948, meanings are assigned shall have in this license the sume 
raspective meanings provided that im this license سس‎ 


(1) “the Act” shall mean the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 and any 
statutory modifications thereof; 


(ui) “the Government’? shall mean the Government of West Bengal; 


(111) = টি shall mean the West Bengal State Electricity 
oard ; 


(iv) the expression ‘‘the licensee’? shall mean and include the 
Chandannagore Electric Supply Company (Private), Limited a 
company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and 
their permitted assigns; 


({v) the expression “‘deposited map’’ shall mean the plan of the area of 
supply hereinafter specified, which has been deposited with the 
Government in pursuance of the rules under the Act, which 
plan is signed for the purpose of identification by the Secretary 
to the Government of West Bengal in the Department of Com- 
merce and Industries and by the licensee; 


(vi) the term “‘unit’’ shall mean the quantity of electrical energy 
equivalent to a current of one thousand amperes flowing under an 
electromotive force of one volt during one hour; 


(vii) the expressions ‘‘First Annexure’, ‘“‘Second Annexure’, ‘Third 
Annexure” and ‘‘Fourth Annexure’’ shall mean the first, second, 
, third and fourth annexures to this license, respectively; 


(vill) unless otherwise stated, where roads or streets are mentioned as 
forming the boundary or part of the boundary of any area in this 
license, the premises, properties or structures abutting upon 
either side of such roads or streets shall be deemed to be within 
area of supply. 


3342 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 
سس جح‎ পপ ৯ সপ 
Security 


3. The security contemplated by clause 1 of the schedule to the Act is 
not required. 


Area of supply 

4. The area above referred to within which the supply of energy is 
9761১071990 by the license (the area of supply under the Act) is the whole 
of the area, the boundaries of which are described in the First Annexure 
and delineated in red colour on the deposited map. 


Situation of the Transforming Station 


5. (a) The licensee shall not erect a generating station, either inside or 
outside the area of supply without the previous sanction of the Board. 


_ (b) The licensee shall take a supply of energy in bulk from the Calcutta 
Electric Supply Corporation Limited for distribution and will erect the 
necessary transformer station or stations within the area of: supply. 


Licensee’s works 


6. Compulsory Works.—The licensee shall (1) provide and instal 
suitable and sufficient feeders and distributing mains and execute necessary 
works to the satisfaction of the Government for the purpose of supplying 
electrical energy throughout the streets, or parts of streets, numed in the 
Second Annexure and shown in yellow colour on the deposited map, না 
erect the transformer station or stations mentioned in clause 5 with al 
machinery and apparatus necessary for the purpose of giving a continuous 
and efficient supply, and (3) do all other works necessary for supply of 
energy to consumers. 


Supply of Energy 


7. (i) Subject to the provisions of this license, the Act and the rules 
thereunder and also the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, and the rules there- 
‘under the licensee shall be entitled during the continuance of its license to 
supply energy within the area of supply of all purposes except in cases 
where the supply to any one consumer shall exceed 100,000 units per annum* 
without the previous consent in writing of the Government. 


(ii) As soon as may be after the grant of this license and in any case 
within two weeks thereafter the licensee shall submit to the Government for 
sanction under sub-section (2) of section 21 of the Act draft ‘‘Conditions 
of supply” to regulate its relations with persons who are or intend to become 
consumers. 


(iii) The amount of all miscellaneous charges incidental to and/or in 
connection with the supply of energy, which the licensee proposes to make 
against consumers, shall be subject to the previous approval of the 
Government. 


Extensions to transforming station, transmission and distributing mains 


8. After the supply of energy has commenced no major additions to the 
transforming station, machinery and apparatus, transmission and _ distri- 
buting mains or other works shall be made or orders placed for the same, 
without the previous approval in writing of the Board. 


Accounts 


9, (11 Separate and distinct accounts shall be kept, prepared and 
rendered by the licensee showing in full details as required by the Act and 
the rules thereunder and the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, or any order 
of the Government, the working of the undertaking for which this license, 
is granted. 


* Exoept the supply to the waterworks and the drainage and sewage system. 


Parr IT] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 3343 


AW books of accounts shall at all times be open to the inspection of the 
Government or of the Board. 


_ (i) The licensee shall submit to the Government before the 18٦ October 
in every year, the accounts of the undertakfng for one year made up to the 
23181 March of the same year. 


Statistics 


10. The licensee shall when called upon to do 90 submit to the Govern- 
ment or the Board as the case may be such statement and data as may be 
considered necessary for the purpose of compiling comprehensive statistics 
of electric supply undertakings in the State. 


Hours of supply 


11. From the date of the commencement of supply the licensee shall 
maintain a continuous supply of energy for 24 hours throughout the year. 


Method of construction 


12. The feeders, distributing mains and service connections may be 
overhead or underground in whole or in part and shall subject to the 
provisions of section 18 of the Act, be erected, constructed and maintained 
by the licensee in strict conformity with the Act and the rules thereunder 
and the following provisions: 


(1) The licensee shall not erect overhead mains for use at any higher 
pressure than medium pressure without the previous sanction in 
writing of the Government in each case and subject to such 
conditions and/or limitations as the Government may impose. 


(ii) Aerial lines in the vicinity of a building or structure shall be 
erected in compliance with the Indian Electricity Rules and in 
no case shall an aerial line be at a less distance than 4 feet 
horizontally and/or 8 feet vertically from any building or 
structure whether permanent or temporary. : 


(iii) In narrow lanes, passages or streets where it is not possible to 
maintain a horizontal clearance of 4 feet between aerial lines 
and buildings or structures underground cables shall be provided 
unless any special method of construction of aerial lines shall 
have been expressly sanctioned in writing by the Government 
for any such lane, passage or street and such sanction shall be 
obtained by the licensee before beginning construction of any 
such special aerial line. 


(iv) Where any electric supply lines (excepting lines in streets 
mentioned in Second Annexure) cross or run along the routes of 
a taboot, temple car or similar other religious processions, the 
supply lines shall be laid underground or placed at such height 
as will allow of the free and safe passage of those processions. 
In case of dispute, such routes and heights shall be determined 
by the District Magistrate to whom the licensee shall refer 
before running any such lines. 


(v) The licensee shall remove or replace at his own expense any aerial 
line which runs along or across any street if in the opinion of 
the Government it is considered necessary to do so. 


(vi) For the purpose of rule 68(2) of the rules, the maximum wind 
pressure shall be taken as 20 pounds per square foot, 
Nature of supply | 
19. The system and pressure of supply which shall be adopted for the 
supply of electrical energy under this license are as follows :— 


(i) Three phase alternating current, three or four wire ود‎ at 
pressures of 400 volts between phases and 230 volts between 


3344 THE GALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr I 


each phase and. neutral at a frequency of fifty complete »wycles 
per second, 


(21) Single phase alternating current, two wire supply, at a pressure 
۱ of 280 volts between the phase and neutral conductor at a 
frequency of fifty complete cycles per second. 


(111) Three phase alternating current, three wire supply at pressures of 
6,000 volts between phases at a frequency of fifty complete cycles 
per second. 


The pressure stated above shall not vary therefrom beyond the limits 
prescribed by the Indian Electricity Rules, 1987, throughout the area of 


supply: 


Provided that licensee may from time to time with the previous sanction 
in writing of the Government and subject to such limitations and conditions 
as shall be made in writing by the Government adopt any other pressures 
or systems of supply or both for the purpose of this license. 


Limits of rates to be charged in respect of supply of energy 


14. The rates to be charged by the licensee for energy supplied by "1 
shall not exceed the maxima as stated in that bebalf in the Fourth Annexure, 
or in the case of a method of charge approved by the (Government in 
accordance with clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 23 of the Act, such 
maxima as the Government may fix on approving the method, 


Expiry of license and purchase of undertaking 


15. The license shall expire on 818 December 1967. The option of 
purchase given by section 7 of the Act shall be exercisable on the expiry 
of this license. 


Bulk supply 


16. Should a supply of electrical energy in bulk become available at 
any future date from any source at a rate not more than the rate at which 
the ligensee ts purchasing at the time and if the Government think it in 
the interest of development of electricity in that area so to direct, the 
licensee shall obtain its suppy from such source, on payment of the rate and 
the cost or proportionate cost (if any) of the erection or construction of its 
service lines ag may be fixed by such source for the purpose and upon enter- 
ing into an agreement for such supply embodying the terms and conditions 
fixed by the Government. 


P oe decision of the Government on the operation of this clause shall he 
nal. 


¢ 


Management expenses and interest of loan 


17. (i) The Government shall have the right from time to time to 
nominate one ez officio Director of the Board of Directors of the company 
and the Director so nominated shall be entitled to such remuneration payable 
by the said company as fixed-in the Memorandum and Articles of Associa- 
tion of such company in respect of other Directors. The Director so nominat- 
ed by the Government shall not be required to hold any qualifications 
shares, nor shall he be liable to removal or retirement. The Government 
shall, however, have the mght to remove the person so nominated and 
appoint another person in his place. 


(11) The licensee shall submit to the Government any agreement hetween 
the licensee and the Managing Agents or any modifications therein for the 
satisfaction of the Government that there has not been any contravention 
of section 9(2) of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, and paragraph XITI of the 
Sixth Schedule to the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. 7 


Part J] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3345 


w (ili) The transaction relating to unsecured loans, if any, shall be reported 
to the Government for the satisfaction of Government that the interesta of 
consumers have not been unduly prejudiced thereby. 

a 


Variations from the Schedule 'to the Act 


_ 18. In pursuance of clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act, 
it is hereby expressly declared that— 
(i) The following shall be added between the words “‘licensee” and 
‘‘and’’ at the end of clause (a) of the first proviso to sub-clause 
(1) of clause V1 of the Schedule to the Act:—‘‘and to comply 
with the conditions of supply made from time to time with the 
previous sanction of the Government under section 21(2)’’; 


(11) Clause (a) of the first proviso to sub-clause (1) of clause VI of the 
schedule to the Act Shall for the purpose of incorporation in this 
license be further varied to the following extent, namely, that 
the licensee shall not be bound to supply energy to any person 
for any period unless the person requisitioning such supply shall 
enter into an agreement. 


(111) The following sub-clause shall be substituted for sub-clause (5) of 
clause VI, namely : 


‘“‘Kvery requisition under this clause shall be in a form approved by 
the Government in the condition of supply and copies of the 
form shall be kept in the office of the টিপ und supplied 
free of charge to any applicant”; 


(iv) The first proviso to clause XI of the schedule to the Act shall, for 
the purpose of incorporation in this license, be varied by the 
বাস of five years for the period of seven years specified 
therein ; 


(v) The following sub-clause shall be substituted for sub-clause (2). of 
clause X, namely :— 


‘Within two weeks from the date of the granting of this license the 
licensee shall give notice, by public advertisement ein such 
manner as shall be previously approved by the Government, of 
the method by which it proposes to charge for energy supplied 
and the rates at which such energy will be supplied; and, where 
the licensee has given such notice it shall not be entitled to 
change the method of charging or the rate at which energy will 
be supplied without giving notice thereof by public advertise- 
ment in the manner aforesaid and giving not less than one 
month’s notice in writing or such shorter notice as the Gov- 
ernment may deem proper of such change to the Government 
and to every consumer of energy who is supplied by it”. 


Securing continuity of supply 


19. It shall be the duty of the licensee (which expression shall, for the 
purpose of this clause and clause 20 following, be taken to mean and include 
the licensee, his employees, servants, agents and his permitted assigns) to give 
the nearest Magistrate immediate and full information of any circumstances 
in which interruption of the supply may be apprehended aa a result of civil 
commotion or disturbance of the public peace, or any strike or lock-out of 
the nature specified in section 15 of the Trade Disputes Act, 1929 and/or 
section 22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. | : 


Revocation 


20. 11 the licensee shall in the opinion of the Government have failed 
to give such immediate and full information as is required by clause 19 
thereof, or if at any time any interruption of the supply shall occur which 


3346 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


LED 


[Part 1 


Cell শন ক ھا مشم‎ 0 


یں یی 


in the opinion of the Government could by the exercise of reasonable care 
have been prevented by the licensee, or if the licensee shall in the opinion 
of the Gévernment fai] to comply with any of the provisions of this Ticense, 
or if the general direction and control of the licensee shall cease to be in 
hands of the citizens of India the license may be revoked. 


FIRST ANNEXURE 


7 ১০ boundaries of the area of supply referred to in clause 4 are as 
under : سے‎ 
'  North—-Bounded by the ‘‘Garh’’ (ditch) and the G. T. Road. 
Bast—Bounded by the river ‘‘Hooghly’’. 
' South—Bounded by the “Garh’’ (ditch). 
West—Bounded by the “Garh’’ (ditch). 
The above area is delineated in red lines in the deposited map. 


SECOND ANNEXURE 
The list of streets or parts of streets referred to in clause 6(1)— 


1. G. T. Road (Rue de Banares), 2. Chakrabortypara (North), 3. 
Chemin de Chakrabortypara (South), 4. Deypara, 5. Kristopotty, 6. 
Banerjeepara (North), 7. Banerjeepara (South), 8. Coumurpara, ۰ 
Jeleypara, 10. Mankundu Station Road, 11. Musalmanpara, 12. Surpara, 
13. Mohadanga, 14. Harerpukur, 15. Hatkhola, 16. Jugipara, 17. 
Moran Road, 18. Ambika Chatterjee Lane, 19. Haripara, 20. Chemin de 
Hazinogore, 21. Gondalpara, 22. Chidheswaritala, 23. Hazrapara, 24. 
Chatterjeepara, 25. Bosepara, 26. Khonepara, 27. Doyardhar, 28. Sarup 
Bose Ghat, 29. Natuntal Lane, 30. Chalkiapara, 31. Jhautala Lane, 32. 
Manmatha Thakur Tane, 38. Daibakpara, 34. Acharjeepara, 35. Gorpro- 
sadpur, 36. Beniapara, 37. Sen’s Ghat, 38. Rue Morera, 39. Rue Muni- 
pality, 40. Strand Road, 41. Rue Chevalior, 42. Rue Reglesi, 43. Rue de 
la Paix, 44... Rue de la Arsenal, 45. Rue General Martin, 46. Rue Grand 
Escalier, 47. Rue Corderi, 48. 1006 Carnot, 49. Rue Bassin Richmond, 50. 
Rue de Centre, 51. Sambala Sibtola Road, 52. Akshoy Master (Sambala 
Shibtola Bye Lane), 58. Dupleix-potty Bye Lane, 54. Sapinara Lane, 45. 
Lalbagan, Kast, 56. Rue de Lalbagan, 57. Duleypara, 58. Sustitala Lane, 
59. Rue Halder East, 60. Rue de Halder West, 61. Chemin de Halder. 
para, 62. Tinhazar Lane, 63. Deshbandhu Pathagar Lane, 64. Habu 
Nandy’s Lane. 65. Gopalbagan, 66. Baitipara, 67. Gour Charan 
Master Lane, 68. Bhakunda. 69. Durga Charan Rakshit Road, 70. 
Goabagan, 71. Sibtalla Lane, 72. Rue Bisha Lakshmi (South), 73. Charu 
Babu’s Lane, 74. Sashi Babu’s Lane, 75. Bosepara Bye Lane, 76. (Bag- 
bazar) Uriapara, 77. Rue de la Fosse, 78. Rue de la Garr, 79. Beni Dey 
Lane, 80. Chandni Benipukur. 81. Biswalakshmi Benipukur (North), 
82. Dr. Sital Lane, 83. Baghbazar, 84. Jadu Ghosh Lane, 85. Makhan 
Chatterjee Lane, 86. Bouripara Lane, 87. Ditch Road, Khalisani, 88. 
Suksanatantala, 89. Napitpara, 90. Kutirmat, 91. Urdihazar, 92. Ferry 
chat (Ferry Ghat old or Gopinath Ghat), 93. Bhattacharjee Ghat, 94. 
Kutighat, 95. Kalupukur Road, 96. Narua Bosepara, 97. Rue de Bibirhat, 
98. Due due Naripara. 99. Narua Satyapirtala, 100. Helapukur Road, 
101, Akunjeebagan, 102. Dharmatala (Narua), 103. Narua Bue Lane, 
104. Kalitala Lane, 105. Nityadhar Lane, 106. Chutarpara, 107. Kanta- 
pukur, 108. Battala, 109. Tantipara, 110. Showly, 111. Ponchanontala, 
112. Sarkarpara, 113. Boxisbena, 114. Mittrabagan, 115. Mitrabagan 
Bye Lane, 116. Abani Kanta Chakraborty Bye Lane, .117ا‎ Surerpukur, 
118.. Haridradanga, 119. Goalpara, 120. Maydapotty, 121. Shib Bati 
Ghat (Shibtola Ghat). 122. Boraichanditala, 123. Bazar Centre, 124. 
Bazar, 125. Prankrista Chowdhury, 126. Dhobapotty, 127. Alupotty, 128, 


~~ 


Part | THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 3341 


৮ ee রন 
> — আর রা oe oe 
سج‎ a | 


— دسور = جيًیےیتج Ee eS‏ ہے 


اع — 
لد 
ST — = eee আআ OEE‏ یر سی مد مسم سے PLA CY‏ 


Nithupotty, 129. Rue de Boraichanditala, 180. Iulabari Ghat (Dhankal 
Lane), 181. Charichapara, 182. Dharamtala (Iaridradanga), 133. Nanda 
Ghosh Lane, 184. Ch-due Tinkari Bannerjee, 185. Ch-de Muchipara, 136. 
Halderpara (Gondalpara), 187. Dinama’ Danga (Garerdhar), 1388. سال مھ گا‎ 
para, 139. Sifalatala Lane, 140. Brahmattar, 141. Champatola, 142. 
Mazumidargar, 143, Kundurghat, 144. Laldighi, 145. Khoropoty, 146. 
Dharapara, 147, Namarerbagan, 148. Monilal Prumanick Lane, 149. Raju 
Sur Lane, 150. Kangali Sen Lane, 151. Dayerdhar Bye Lane, 152. Mok- 
tarpara Lane, 158. Mankundu Ditch Road, 154. Sitish Bose Lane, 109, 
Nunetolla, 156. Kalitola (Padripara), 157. Punjaripara (Matkhola), 158. 
Sishubabu Road. 169. Kasinath Chatterji Lane, 160. A.C. Chatterjee 
Bye Lane, 161. Thakurbaty West Lane (Fatakgorah), 162. Bankin Muster 
Lane, 163. Debendranath Neogy Memorial Park, 164. Sovan Gali, 169. 
Kutirmath West (by the eastern side of old treasury), 166. Chawak Nawsira- 
bad, 167. Surir Baman Lane, 168. Nanda Julal Lane, 169. Dalalbagan, 
170. Ashutosh Lane (Dupleixpoty), 171. Jugipukur (Jalan’s garden), 
172. Nilkumal Sarcar, 173. Bosepara Bye Lane (Sailen টা, 174. 
Abhoy Patuly, 175. Jogen Sen Bye Lane (Kholisany), 176. hyam- 
krishna Bagan Lane, 177. Goswamighat, 178. Sarcarbagan, 179, Mari- 
845৫৮ Lane (Munshipukur), 180. Jadughosh Bye Iane, 181. Boxiberia Ist 
Bye Lane, 182. Boxiberia 2nd lane, 183. Kundurghat Sustytolla, 184. 
Panjapukur, 185. Sunrighat (Nichupoty), 186. Jhawbagan Lane (Urdi- 
hazar), 187. Binodetolla, 188. Dhab-Dhebia Ghat, 189. Gurubabu Ghat, 
190, Majer Ghat, 191. Ram Chatterjee Lane (Brojogowala). 


THIRD ANNEXURE 


(1) The three transforming stations and the switching station will be 
situated on Grand Trunk Road. 


(11) The system of supply will be connected to a suitable number, of 
oo the aggregate rated KVA of which will not be less than 800 
VA. ۰ 


FOURTH ANNEXURE 


Rates to be churged by the licensee for energy supplied by him referred 
to in clause 14 shall not exceed the maxima set out below, namely :— 


Rate A—Domestic and buSiness purposes 


(a)(1) Domestic and business purposes for lights and/or all types of 
table, ceiling, exhaust and ventilating fans—5 annas per unit. 


(11) Domestic purposes for lift and pump motors, where the rating of 
such motor does not exceed 4 H.P.—3 annas 6 pies per unit. 


(111) Domestic purposes for lift and pump motors where rating of such 
motor exceeds 4 H.P.—3 annas per unit, 


_ (b) Domestic and business purposes for heating devices (heater, cookers, 
iron, ete.) radios, refrigerators, air conditioning apparatus and all other 
domestic appliances not mentioned in Rate A(a)—8 annas per unit. 


(c) All other domestic and business purposes not covered by any other 
rate—5 annas per unit, 


Rate B—Unmetered supply 


Lights on contract system for roadside stalls and bazar shops only, and 
used for not more than 6 hours daily from sunset, provided that the waitage 
of each lamp does not exceed 60 watts and the total number of lamps in one 
shop does not exceed 2—Rs, 4 per lamp per month. 


$348 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30,1956 (Parr I 


Rate C—Public amusement purposes 


Motors, converters and all such purposes—Industrial rate E. 
¢ 


Rate D—Battery charging and electrolysis 


For battery charging and electrolysis purposes—83 annas per unit. 


Rate E—induStrial purposes 
(a) For each installation having motors the aggregate rated horse 
power of which does not exceed 4 H.?.—3 annas 6 pies per unit. 
(b) Exceeds 4 but not exceeds 15 H.P.—d annas per unit. 
(c) Exceeds 15 but not exceeds 50 H.P.—2 annas 6 pies per unit, 


Rate F—Industrial purposes (large) 


If the monthly maximum demand exceeds 50 kilowatts special method 
of charge to be approved by the Government in accordance with section 23, 
sub-sections (3) and (4) of the Act, the maximum rates shall be such as the 
Government may fix on approving the method. 


Rate C-- -treet lighting 


The’ licensee may at any time enter into a special contract with the local 
bodies for supply of energy to the local bodies for public hghting upon 
such terms and conditions at such rates not exceeding the maximum charges 
specified below :— 


on 


« Rs. 2-2 per month per lamp of 25 watt. 
Rs. 2-6 per rhonth per lamp of 40 watt. 
Rs. 2-14-00 month per lamp of 60 watt. 
Rs. 3-10 per month per lamp of 75 watt. 
Rs. 4-10 per month per lamp of 100 watt. 
Rs. 8-2 per month per lamp of 200 watt. 


Minimum charges 


Provided that in respect of all premises consuming energy under 
different rates mentioned above, the licensee shall be permitted to levy 
minimum charge at the following rates per month, even if energy to that 
value has not been consumed during month :— 


(ay°For apparatus consuming energy under rate A(a)(i) and A(b)— 
Rs. 2 per month per kilowatt of connected load or part thereof 
on the premises concerned. 


(b) For motors consuming energy under rate A(a)(ii), 4১09) (221), and 
rate E—Rs. 5 per month per H.P. installed or part thereof. 


Nort.—-When the minimum charge specified above is levied then no 
other charge for energy consumed shall be made during the period affected. 


By order of the Governor, 
‘A. MITRA, Secy. 


Registered No. C207 


(0:1۲0٦ 


THURSDAY, 4১100081091), 1956 ۱ 


PART IA. - ×٥ and Notifications of the Government of India, Statutory Notifications of the Election 
Commission, India, and other Election Notifications published for general informatien, Orders 
and Notifications which have originally been published in the “Gazette of India” are only 


republished. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF 
INDIA, CALCUTTA 


Bhartia Electric Steel Co., Ltd., Calcutta ... Appellants, 
versus 
Bhartia Iron and Steel Workers’ Union, Caleutta ... Hespondents. 


In the matter of appeals against the award of Shri M. N. Can, Judge, 
Second Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, which was published in the 
‘Calcutta Cazette’’, dated 17th March 1955, in respect of an industrial 
dispute between the above parties 


Dated, the 5th April 1956. 
PRESENT : 
Sarr A. DAS GUPTA, President. 
ওরা 8. B. SINGH, Member. 
Appearances : 


For the مس ن‎ : Shri B. P. Khaitan, S. K. Bose, Bar.-at-law, Shri 
P. R. Bagri, Director, Shri N. K. Saraf and Shr K. P. Mukherjee. 


For the Respondent: Shri Ram Sen. 


State: West Bengal. 
Industry: Tron and Steel. 


DECISION 


Two issues were referred to the Second Industrial Tribunal, West 
‘Bengal, for adjudication. 


7 a 
۲٤ 


(1) Establishment costs of the works canteen. 


(2) Weekly off and overtime pay and the provision of uniforms to the 
durwans, 


The Learned Adjudicator. decided the first issue against the Company 
and the second issue againat the workmen. The award was published in 
thy Calcutta Gazette on 17th March 1955. The Compuny has appealed 
epainst the decision of the Tribunal on issue No. 1. This is Appeal Cal.- 
108 of 1965. Appeal Cal.-110 of 1955 has been filed by the workmen 
against the decision on issue No, 2. 


We take up first the Company’s appeal which relates to establishment 
cost of the works canteen. It is not covered by the list of appealable items 


392 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1966 


[Panr TA 


শিব Eater 


under section 7(1)(b) of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribu- 
nal) Act, 1950. ence the appeal is incompetert unless it is shown’ that 
it involves a substantial question of law. Shri B. P. Khaitan, who 


represents the Company before us urges that the decision involves an 
interpretation of the award of the Major Engineering Tribunal, the reie- 
vant section of the Indian Factories Act and the rules framed thereunder. 
For a correct application of the contention of Shri Khaitan, a short résumé 
of the facts of the case may be relevant. In 1947, the Government of 
West Bengal constituted a Tribunal to adjudicate upon the industrial dis- 
putes in 119 Engineering Firms of which the present appellant was one 
This Tribunal was commonly known as the Major Engmeering Tribunal. 
This Tribunal gave its award which was published in the Calcutta Gazette 
under Government of West Bengal, Labour Department,’ order No. 2161 /- 
Lah., dated the 80th June 1948. ‘‘Canteen’’ was one of the subject matters 
of the adjudication. The Indian Factories Act of 1948 came into force on 
18: April 1949. Its predecessor, namely, the Indian Factories Act of 1934 
which was in force during the adjudication proceedings did not provide for 
any canteen. But the Major Engineering Tribunal টড the rele- 
vant provision of the Act of 1948 which was then pending before the 
Central Legislature and recommended that food may be supplied at a price 
just sufficient to meet the cost of the canteen. 


The Company admittedly maintains o canteen and bears a substantial 
portion of its costs, although there is slight difference between the parties 
as to the exact amount paid by the Company and the number of servants 
enployed. According to the Company 16 servants are employed for the 
canteen, while the Union contends that only 14 servants are employed. 
Out of these servants four are directly paid by the canteen committee out 
of the sale proceeds of foodstuff and the rest are paid by the committee. 
The Union demands that the Company should bear the entire establishment 
costs of the canteen including the salary of the servants employed for the 
canteen and the Lower Tribunal relying on a.decision reported io 
1954 I LLJ., page 774 (Burn & Co., Ltd.) has allowed the demand of the 
Union. The Company denies its liability to bear any portion of the 
establishment costs of the canteen. The decision in the present case 
hinges on the correct interpretation on the relevant section of the Indian 
Factories Act, the rules framed under the Act and the relevant portion in 
the award of the Major Engineering Tribunal. We accordingly agree with 
Shri Khaitan that the appeal involves a substantial question of law and is 
maintainable. 


As we have already pointed out that the Major Engineering Tribunal 
recommends that food may be supplied at a price just sufficient to meet 
the cost of the canteen. In the absence of any direction to the contrary, 
we may presume that the establishment cost would count in fixing the sale 
price of the foodstuff in the canteen. Section 46 of the Indian Factories 
Act, 1948, providés for canteen. It directs that in a factory where there 
are more than 250 workers, a canteen should he provided and maintained 
by the occupier for the use of the workers. It also authorises the State 
(Jovernment to frame rules in respect of such canteens under five specified 
heads. Rules 66 to 71 of the rules framed by the West Bengal Govern- 
ment, deals with the maintenance of canteen, equipment, price to be 
charged for foodstuff. Rules 66 and 67 deal with the site, ventilation, 
lighting and accommodation of the canteen including kitchen, pantry, 
store room and the dining hall. These two rules also provide for the 
hygienic measures in respect of the building including the kitchen, pantry 
and store room and the dining hall. Rule 68 deals with equipment and rule 
69 with the prices of food. Rule 68 runs as follows :— 


68. Equipment.—(1) There shall be provided and maintained 
sufficient utensils, crockery, cutlery, furniture and any other equip- 
ment necessary for the efficient running of the canteen. Suitable 
clean clothes for the employees serving in the canteen shall also be 
provided and maintained. 

(2) The furniture, utensils and other equipment shall be main- 
tained in a clean and hygienic condition. A service counter, if pro- 
vided, sha]l have a top of smooth and impervious material. Suitable 
facilities including an adequate supply of hot water shall be provided 
for the cleaning of utensils and equipment. 


Rule 69 directs that food and drink 210 other items served in the 
canteen will be sold and the prices charged shal] be sulsject to the approval 
of the managing committee. For our purpose rule 68 is relevant, and the 
piece decision on the issue before us involves an interpretation of this 
rule. 


It has been urged on behalf of the workmen that the employer has a 
statutory obligation to maintain a canteen and that to discharge this 
statutory obligation he must bear the entire establishment cost including 
the salary of servants employed in the canteen. This contention raises 
the question whether the employer has any statutory obligation to subsi- 
dise the canteen and if so to what extent. This is a much larger issue 
than what is involved in the present appeal. The question before us is 


۴ 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


whether the peo a has any statutory obligation to pay for the four 
servants employed by thp canteen. Rule 68 does not specifically meun 
‘servants’ us one of the equipments. In interpreting this rule we must 
apply the principle of ejusdem gencris. By no stretch of imagination, 
the words ‘‘any other equipments necessary for the efficient running of 
the canteen” include servants, Servants have not been enumeraicd in 
rule 68 as one of the equipments, although the tule provides for suitable 
clean clothings for the servants serving in the canteen. 


Furniture, utensils and other equipment necessary for the canteen are to 
be maintained in a clean and hygienic condition and hot water is 60 be 
rovided for the cleaning of the utensils und other «equipments. Rule 
$(2) clearly indicates that the words ‘“‘any other equipment’ are not 
intended by the’ Government to include servants. We are accordingly of 
the opinion that the Company is under no obligation to pay the salary of 
the four servants employed by the canteen committee. The salary of these 
four servants should be taken into account in fixing the price of foodstuff. 
This will not offend the statutory provision for canteen under the Indian 
Fectories Act of 1949 and the a framed thereunder. The direction of 
the Adjudicator on this point is vacated. It is, however, hoped that the 
Company will not mata the existing subsidy. 


The facts of the case reported in 1954 I LLJ., page 774 (Burn & Co., 
lid.) is different from the facts of the present case. In the said case the 
Company was under an obligation under the award to maintain a cheap 
canteen and a Bench of this Tribunal held that a cheap canteen could not 
mean supply of food on the basis of ‘‘no profit and no loss’’. This decision 
does not apply to the facts and circumstances of the present case. 


Now coming to the appeal of the workmen’s appeal No. Cal.-110 of 
1955 on issue No. 2 we may at once reject as incompetent the appeal so far 
as it relates to weekly off and the provision of uniforms to the durwans. 
Shri Ram Sen who has appeared before us for the workmen has not been 
able to establish any substantial question of law involved in the appeal. 
The appeal is competent only in respect of overtime pay of the durwans. 


The durwans working in the watch and ward department are not work- 
men under the Indian Factories Act and are not hence entitled to the bene- 
fit provided in the Act for factory workers. They do not also come under 
the Shops and Establishments Act. The Union claims overtime pay for 
the durwans for work on weekly day off. The Company states in its written 
statement that all the durwans excepting the durwans posted at the gates 
and in the stores get weekly holidays and that all durwans are alluwed one 
month’s leave with pay and 15 days’ leave on half pay in a year and are 
provided with free quarters. The durwans are the gurdians of the pro- 
perty and materials of the factory, and their services are required through- 
out the day and the week. It is not the Union’s case that they are 
eniployed for intension duty for 24 hours in a day without any recess. The 
durwans are provided with free quarters and free fuel and they even enjoy 
holidays. This is the condition of service of the durwans. The Learned 
Adjudicator turned down the Union’s demsaud for overtime pay as compen- 
sation for loss of weekly rest day. We are not inclined to interfere. 


In the result, appeal No. Cal.-108 of 1955 is allowed on contest and the 
direction of the Adjudicator to the appellant Company to bear the salaries 
of the four servants of the works canteen which are now paid by the canteen 
committee is vacated. Appeal No. Cal.-110 of 1955 is dismissed on contest. 
The award on issue No. 2 shall stand. Parties shall bear their own costs. 


A. DAS GUPTA, 
President. 


S. B. SINGH, 
Meinber. 


IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAL OF INDIA 
AT CALCUTTA 


Application Miscellaneous No. C-27 of 1956 


لے 


Shri Ram Sing and five others, 1, Jay Bhattacharya Lane, 


Calcutta-d. ... Applicants, 
versus 
The National Carbon Co. (India), Ltd., 6 Rustomjee Parsi 
Road, Cossipore, Calcutta-2. 1 Opponents. 


in the matter of an application under section 23 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, 


The 3rd day of April 1956. 


PRESENT: 
بت8‎ K. C. GUPTA, Member. 


933 


384 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


সদ সত‏ سم —_— ےنسا سح শে‏ - — - سے Seamed —_— সস‏ _— ہی ہے 
জেরার -০০০০২০০০০০-০-০০০০০ ক পা থা পপ ৯৬ উপবাস উজ ০‏ 


Appearances : 


For the Applicants: Shri Panchanan Bhattacharya, President, National 
Carbon Mazdoor Union. 


For the Opponents Shri J. N. Chatterjee, Assistant Labour Advisor, 
Indian Engineering Association, Bengal Chambers. 


State: West Bengal. 
industry: Carbon. 


ORDER 
The following facts have given rise to this application. 


2. During the pendency of appeal No. Cal.-207 of 1955 the opposite 
party, the National Carbon Company (India), Ltd., introduced piece-rate 
system in their packing department and thought that as a result of it six 
of the permanent 7 would become surplus in the line. On the 
218 of December 1955, this introduction of piece-rate system was taken up 
in hand when the six workmen who were to be retained in the line were 
called and explained the implications of the new system. On the following 
day these six workmen who were considered surplus were required to leave 
the packing line and take up some other work in that very department. 
The workmen did not agree to do so and they resisted it. For continuous 
10 days they refused to obey the orders of the management requiring them 
to take up work in some other line in the department. They were, there- 
fore, charge-sheeted and suspended pending enquiry. The domestic enquiry 
was held on the 12th of January 1956. The officer making the enquiry 
came to the conclusion that the workmen complainants were guilty of mis» 
conduct by violating factory’s standing orders and that they deserved to be 
dismissed and made a report to that effect on the 13018 January 1956. On 
the 19th of January 1956, they were informed that the Company was mak- 
ing an application under section 22 for permission for their dismissal and 
that they were to continue on suspension pending grant of permission. 
Within a weak of receipt of the letter communicating this order, the present 
application under section 23 was made on the 25th of January 1956. It 
took some time for the Company to make an application under section 22 
which was made on the 7th of February 1956. In the meantime, the appeal 
which had already been heard was decided on the 27th of January 1956. 
On the 19th of March 1956, the Company’s application under section 22 
being application (Misc.) case No. C-612 of 1956 was dismissed as infruc- 
tuous. Four days thereafter, i.e., when the pendency of the appeal had 
ceased the Company dismissed the complainants, 


3. The first question that presents itself for decision in this case is 
whether on the date the present application was made the Company had 
committed any act which could be called contravention of section 22. 
Pointed attention of the learned representative of the workmen was drawn 
to show that any action which could be called violation of the provisions of 
section 22 of our Act bad been committed by the Company, but he has 
failed to do so. Repeatedly he harped on the fact that the Company had 
not paid these workmen wages for the speriod from 21st of December 1955 
to the 818۲ of December 1955 and the Company had, with ulterior motives, 
suspended these workmen. Thus, he maintained that these, acts constituted 
contravention of section 22. , 


4. & very careful consideration has been bestowed upon the contention 
of the learned representative. Suspension pending enquiry—including 
enquiry by this Tribunal in application under section 22—has been held by 
this Tribunal times out of number to be no contravention of section 22 of 
our Act and, besides suspension pending enquiry no action express or 
implied of the Company giving rise to a cause of action for the present 
application could be cited. As regards nun-payment of wages tor the 
period from the 21st December 1955 to the 8150 December 1965, suffice 1t 
to say that in the particular circumstances of this case it would not 
constitute contravention of section 22 though it may be possible to raise a 
dispute over the matter. I do not want to go into the merits of this aspect 
and would leave the workmen to raise a dispute in the matter if they are ao 
advised, as any ০3010188101) of opinion on my part at this stage may prejudice 
the case if and when raised. 


5. A point was raised on behalf of the complainants that the enquiry 
made into their alleged misgonduct was devoid of all principles of natural 
justice. T have gone through the proceedings of enquiry and find nothing 
to uphold the contention. The enquiry was conducted in the presence of the 
complainants and two representatives of the Union. The workmen were 
asked to crosa-examine the witnesses Nagin on behalf of the Company 
but they refused to do so and though at the end of examination of the 
complainants it is not so stated that they were required to produce their 
witnesses, it 14 sufficiently clear from the report made on the day following 
the enquiry, i.e., on the 1900 of January 1956, that the complainants did 
not produce any evidence. 


Part IA] 


(০০০০০ এরাও ক মিটি সা স্পা পা পপ ے‎ পপর مو‎ 


0. It is then argued that the enquiry was devoid of all principles of 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


شش 
Se‏ —— 


০... 
- 


natural justice inasmuch عو‎ Shri Panchanan Bhattacharyh, President of the 
_ Umon to which the complainants belonged, was not allowed ما‎ be present 
durjug the enquiry and to cross-examine the witnesses produced on behalf 


ef the Company. 


Shri Bhattacharya may be President of the Union but 


certainly was not an employee of the Company and the Company could not 
be compelled to allow an outsider to conduct the enquiry which is a domestic 


enquiry, 


7. Tam satisfied that the enquiry cannot be called against the principles 


of natural justice. 


8. The result is that this application under section 23 is not maintain- 


uble and is hereby dismissed. 


K. C. GUPTA, 


Member. 


সারি উনিও ABD 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEPARTMENT 
OF REVENUE) 


New Delhi, the 9th August 1956. 


NOTIFICATION 
INCOME-TAX ESTABLISHMENTS 
No. 127.—The  undermentioned Income-tax 
Officers, Class ٢۱, Grade I], are promoted — to 


officiate as Income-tax Officers, Class I, Grade ۰ 
with effect fioan Ist April 1956:— 


Serial Commissioner’s charge 
No. Namo. in which he is working 
at present. 
* ۲ * ্ ٦ 
8 Shri 8. .۰ط‎ Sachidanandan West Bengal. 
কা ٠ ছু * « 
5 Shri P. 0٥. Pandey .» West Bengal. 
* ٥ * * * 
11 Shri 10. R. Chakraborty *৬ West Bengal. 
# * রঃ * * 
14 Shri B. R. Adwalflalkar .. West Bengal. 
* * * ٥ * 
17 Shn 0. A. James oe West Bengal. 
we ক * * 
26 Shri 0. R. Raghavan West Bengal. 
ও لی اس‎ @ e 
33 Shri G. B. Seth .. West Bengal. 
* « ক « ٠ 
51 Shri 7. N. Bose রর a. Caloutta. 
* کے ,۴خ‎ * & 
* ৯ 
54 Shri H..P. Mukherjee .: West Bengal. 
* ہیں % * لی‎ 


۲.8. KAISKER, Under Secy. 


ہج یں 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND 
SUPPLY 


NOTIFICATION 


Dated New Delhi, the 2nd August 1956 


No. M-I09()8. & P.IL/53.—The following 
draft of a further amendment to the Explosives 
Rules, 1940, which the Central Government pro- 
oses- ما‎ make, in exercise vf the ee conferred 
= sections fand Tof the Indian 7× 9 
Act, 1884 )4 of 1884), is published, as required by 
section 18 of the said Act, for the information of 


all persons likely to be affected thereby ond notice: 


18 hereby 
11010) consi 


' ৪ 


‘iven that the saif draft will be taken 
ধর on or atter the 15th September 


& 


wi 


2 
و لھ 


Any objection or suggestiot “which may be 
received from any person in respect of the said 
draft before the date so specified will be considered 
by the Central Government: 


Draft Amendment 


In the said rules—in the Indemnity Bond 
prescribed under proviso 8 to subrule (1) of 
rule 85 for. the word “Collector” the words 


“Revenue Divisjonal 09097 shall be substituted. 


ক ১ M. N. KALE, Under 9৪০৮, 


gg 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE 
DIVISION) 


New Delhi, the 14th April 1956 
NOTIFICATIONS 


INCOME-TAX ESTABLISHMENTS 
No. 26.—Shn G. Misra, Appellate Assistant 


Commissioner of Income-tax, H Range, Calcutta, 
is granted an extension of earned leave for thirty- 
two days with effect from 218: March 1956 to 21st 


bad 


baie 


April 1956, with permission to affix Sunday, the 
22nd April 1956, in continuation of the leave 


granted to him inthis Munistry’s notification 
No. 19-Income-tax Establishments, dated 5th 
March 1956. 


Shri V. Gopinathan, Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner, 1 Range, Calcutta, would continue fo 
hold charge of Appellate Assistan> Commissioner, 
11 Range, Calcutta, in addition tc his own duties, 
during the period of Shri Misra’s absence on leave. 


P. 9. 7۸10 : ER, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1956. 


No. 66.—Shri G. Misra, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income-tax, H Range, Caloutta, 
was granted an extension of leave on average pay 


for ning days, with effect from the 
22nd April to 80th Apml 1996, in 
continuatién of the leave granted to him 


in this Ministry’s notifications Nos. 19 and 25- 
Ifeome-tax Establishments, dated the 5th March 
1956 and 14th Apri] 1954, respectively. 


Ile resumed charge of that Range, after the 
expiry of leave, on the Ist May 1956, relieving 
Shri V. Gopinathan, Appétlnte Assistant Commuis- 
sioner of Income-tax, 1 Runge, Calcutta, of the 
additional chatge. : 


K. 9. 16780110015, Under Secy. 


986 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


GOVERNMENT OF HYDERABAD 
Home Department 
NOTIFICATION 
No. SPL/R/139/PS/56-—8rd August 1956.— 


Whereas the Rajpramukh of Hyderabad 18 satished 


that the publication of the photo depicting the 
Prophet of Islam along with Hazrat Ali, address- 
ing a gathering of Muslims and bearing the name 
of printers as ‘‘Nadeeb Photo Publishers Co., 
lTyderabad, Deccan’”’ is deliberately and maliciously 
intended to outrage the religious feelings of a class 
of Muslims and the publication of which is 
punishable under section 153A of the Indian 
Penal Code, 1860 (Act XLV of 1860); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers ¢on- 
ferred by 28801) 99۸ of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), the Rajpramukh 
herehy declares every copy of reprint of the-~sajd 
photo to be forfeited to Government. 


B. A. KULKARNI, Dy. Secy. 


[Parr TA 


উস ৩. 


DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE 


No. 180-1D(1)/49, dated Simla, 4/Camp: New 
Delhi, the 13th August 1956. 


Whereas I, S. .لا‎ Vaiyaguri, Controller of 
Insurance, am satisfied that the affairs of the 
Provident Society known as the Medini Provident 
Insurance Company Limited, Midnapore, ص1‎ the’ 
State of West 13918] have been fully wound up. 


And whereas three months have expired since 
the account of the Liquidator has been registered 
with me: | - 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the pfovisions of 
sub-section (5) of section 98 of the Insurance Act, 
1938 (IV of 1938), I hereby declare the said 
society dissolved. 


S. K. VALYAPURI, Controller of Insurance. 


Registered No. C207 


.ےسا 


bt ৭12 ০ 
॥ সরি 5 


: “ ~ 

প্র ৫৬৯৯ J a‏ = ای 
۱م ہے YETI,‏ 
জে জা সর =‏ 


wR Ad 8 


si রিনি 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1956 


TR te phe এ সস পল‏ سہپس سم ہما পা | পা‏ ہد جم জি সাপ হাত তরি হিপ সপ কপি ০৯০০-৩৬-১৯‏ سم 6د 
৯৯০৯০‏ ہہ ہے ٠ر‏ بجر جج رمجوعیجےوںج+وتجم ہجسےص পি পিস হস ই‏ سد পাটা শশী পিপি‏ 
পপ বাপ কাম Ma‏ و লা পপ ক শা পাপী পাপ পাটি রি‏ مو পাপী‏ سفجمجوصں۔۔- وڈ ہوم ক 9 কিস পর জজ সস ১২১ ২ = সস‏ موم مھا ~ 


PART IB—Educational Notices 


BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST BENGAL 


NOTIFICATION 3.3-46 


Calcutta, the 11th August 1956 
Translated editions on Algebra, General Science and Arithmetic for classes Vi, Vil and Vill 


It is notified that the following translated editions have been approved as text-books on the subjects and for 
the classes as below for 1956 and for the following year :-— 


Name of the book. Subject and class. Translated by. Publisher, Price. 
Ra. a. p. 
1, Prabeshika Bijganit Algebra (in Nepali) for Translated from Alge- Sanyal & Co., 86 Upper 2 8 0 
(Nepali). classes VII—VIII. bra by Jadav Chand- Circular Road, Cal- 
ra Chakravorty. cutta-9. 
*2. Asan Ilm Science, General Science (in Shri Riazuddin Ahmed 011 0 
Part I. Urdu) for class VI. from Saral Samanya 
Bijnan, Part I (in 
Hindi). 
*3, Asan Ilm Science, General Science (in Shri Riazuddin Ahmed ا‎ 20 0 
Part IT. Urdu) for classes from Saral Samanya 
VII—VITI. Bijnan, Part II (in 
Hindi). 
*4. Easy Arithmetic, Arithmetic (in English) Dr. N. N. Bose from eer 2 5 0 
Part ۰ for classes VII—VIII. Saral Anka 98006, 


Part II (Hindi). 


*The publisher of the last three books is Indian Press (Pub.) Ltd., Allahabad. (Calcutta, Address : 934 Dharamtala 


Street, Calcutta-13). 


- BENCAL ENCINEERING COLLECE 


NOTIFICATION 


Dated Howrah, the 8th August 1920. 


Notification regarding the award of the Bimala 
Churn Law Free Studentship at the Bengal 
Engineering College, Session 1956-57, 


In terms of Government Order No. 4192Idn., 
dated July 23, 1938, as umended in Government 
Order No. 186Kdn., dated January 19, 1940, and 
Government Order No. 5684Edn. of- the 18th 
August 1952, Shri Subimal Mukherjee, a student 
of bth Year Architecture Clasa, Roll No. 7 of the 
Bengal Engineering College, 18. awarded on the 
nomination of the Donor, the Bimala Churn Law 
Vree Studentship for the session commencing 20) 
July 1956, for a period of one year, The award 
is subject to the usual conditions of good conduct 
and satisfactory progress. 


By order of the Administrator, 


D. P. RAY CHAUDHURI, 
Secretary. 


The holder of the Free Studentship is exempted 
trom the payment of tuition fees and charges for 
board and lodging but not from any other charges 
payable by other regular students. 


A. ©. ROY, Principal. 
BOARD OF SECONDARY EDUCATION, WEST 
BENCAL 


NOTIFICATION No. Syl. /80/56. 
Calcutta, the 818: July 1956 
Submission of Arabic Reader for Classes ۱۰ 


In partial modification of Board’s notification 
No. Syl. /13/56, dated the ]9th March 1966, on the 
above subject it is notified that the last date for aub- 
mission of Arabic Reader for Classea ۰ 
extended to 15th September 1956. 


By order of the Administrator, 
D. P. RAY CHAUDHT RI, 


Secretary. 


Registered No. C207 


۹۹ 6 


Vv 2 
wed ১৯ 


0 


ے ےه পিপি‏ یہ 


PART 11 40৮51 09910267015, Notices 


Procedure regarding sending Manuscripts for publication of Advertisements, Notices, etc., in the 
‘‘Caicutta Cazette’’ (Part 88), 


1, Manuscripte should be properly edited and complete in itself. 
2. Manusoripts should always be typewritten on one side of the paper. The name of the signatory should be type 


written below the signature. 


3. Manuscripts intended for advertisement in the next issue of ‘*Caloutta Gazette'’ shall be received by Publication 
Sales Office at New Secretariat 81111081788) 1 Hastings Street, Calcutta, up to 11 a.m. on Saturday and at Wead Office 


at Alipore up to 12 noon on Monday. 


4. All costs shall be paid in advance and deposited along with the Manusoripts. 


6. Manuscripts and postal remittances shall be addressed to SUPERINTENDENT, 
WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PRESS, ALIPORE. 


(PUBLICATION BRANCH), 


GOVERNMENT PRINTING 


Tho Press shall not be held responsible for dolay in publication of any advertisement due to the non-observance of the 


instructions detailed above. 


IN THE HIGH COURT AT CALCUTTA, IN INSOLVENCY 
NOTICE OF ADJUDICATION ORDER NO. 15 OF 1956. 


Re. Bhupendra Nath Mukherjee carrying on business under 
the name aud style of N. Sarkar & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, at No. 17, و ا‎ Lane in the town of 
Caleutta and residing at No. 57, Raja Basauta Roy 
Road in the suburbs of Calcutta, aforesaid, ex parte 


the creditor, 
Ajit Kumar Mitter, creditor’s Solicitor. 


ON the 10th day of July 1966, an order was made by the 
High Court at Calcutta in its Insolvency Jurisdiction 
adjudging the abovenamed ows an Insolvent. 


Noto-—All debts due to the estate should be paid to me. 
Hated this 22nd day of August 1956. 


M. M. CHAKRABARTY, Official Assignee: - 


6 Council House Street. 


N THE MATTER OF SUN OF INDIA PROVIDENT 
INSURANCE CO., LTD. (CIN LIQUIDATION). 


MEETING of 100 ahovenamed society in terms of 
(৮010) 92011) of the Tnsurance Act, 1938, will be held at 
ho office of tha undersigned at No. 6, Council House 
‘treet, Caleutta, on Saturday, the 15th September 1956 
٠ ٰ ت0‎ The creditors and contributories are requested 
12518 


M. M. CHAKRABARTY, 
Officinl Receiver, High Court, 
Official Liquidator. 
পারাপার পাপ 
UNION PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION. 


Advertisement No, 34. ۰ 


APPLICATIONS aro invited for the undermentioned 
Yin from Indian citizens and persons migrated trom 
Mistan with mtention of permanently settling صا‎ India 
Subjects of Nepal, যা or Portuguese or former 
“ench possessions am India. Upper age-limite, relaxable 
' ة5‎ years for Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes 


candidates and up to 45 years for displaced persons from 
Pakistan and non-liberated areas of Jammu and Kashmir. 
No relaxation for others, save in exceptional cases and will 
in uo case be relaxed beyond three years. Particulars and 
r)phcation forms from Secretary, Union Public Service 
Commission, Post Box No. 186, New Delhi. Requests for 
forms must specify name of post and should be accom- 
panied ا‎ self-addressed unstamped envelope for each 
post at least of size 97 x4” indicating thereon name of post 
for which forms are required. Closing date for receipt of 
application with treasury receipt or crossed Indian Post 
Order for Rs. 7-8 (Rs. 14۔1‎ for Scheduled Castes an 
Tribes), 22nd September 1956 (6th October 1956, for 
applicants from abroad). Commission may remit 
genuinely indigent and bona fide displaced persons’ fee. 
Separate application with separate fee required for each 
post. Candidates abroad may apply on plain paper = if 
form not available and deposit fee wit ie Indian 
Embassy. If required candidates must appear for personal 
interview, 


1. One Deputy Director of--- Statistics in the 
Directorate-General of Supplies and Disposals, under the 
Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply.—DPust temporary |. 
but hkely to continue indefinitely. Post reserved for 
Scheduled Tribos candidate if such suitable candidate 
1৮515115118, otherwise treated unreserved. Pay: - Rs. 600—d0 
— 1,000— 1.000. 1,060— 1,050-— 1,100— 1.100— 1,150. 
tligher initial pay to specially qualitind and experienced 
candidate. Age:—Between 30 and 45 years. Relaxabie 
for Government servants. Qualifications:--Essential:— 
(i) Master's or equivalent Honours degree in Statistics, 
or Maghematices/ Kconomics/Commerce with Statistics as 
special subject from recognised University. Gi) About 
five vears’ experiance of statistical work تا‎ responsible 
capacity in Government Department 07 semi-Government 
or private organisation of renate in collection, compilation 
and analysis of statistical data. Qualifications relasxable 
at Comnussion’s discretion in case of candidates otherwise 
well-qualified, 


2. One Assistant Research Officer (Ghee), National 
Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, under Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture. Post temporary. Post reserved 0 
Scheduled Castes/Tribes candidate, if such snijable candi- 
date available. otherwise freated unreserved. Pay: 
Res. 275—25~-A00 10.8. .—30--650—- FB. 80—800.*° Higher 
Initial ae fo specially quahfied and experienced candidate, 
Age:— Helow 35 vears, Rolaxable for Government 
servants. Qualifications:— Essential:i—(i) Master's or 


396 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


{Parr 1 


equivalent Honours degree In Chemistry, or Agriculture 
(Dairy Science) of recognised University. (11) About 
three years’ experience of research in recognised institution 
on Technology and Chemistry of milk products, preferably 
ghee. Qualifications relaxable at Commiesion’s discretion 
in 0899 of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


3. One Junior Flying Instructor, Civil Aviation Training 
Centre, Allahabad, under Ministry of Communications.— 
Post temporary but likely to continue indefinitely. 
Reserved for Scheduled Castes candidate if such suitable 
candidate available, otherwise treated unreserved. 
Appointment of selected candidwute will be for period of 
two years in first instance. Pay:—Rs. 1,200—1 1,400. 
Pay of permanent Government servant will be governed by 
appropriate rules and orders. Higher initial pay to 
specially qualified and experienced candidate. 


Age:—-Preferably below 40 years. Qualifications:— 
Essential:—(i) Total flying experience of about 3,000 
hours. (ii) Total experience as Pilot-in-command about 

hours. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 


discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


4. Assistant Director (Publication), Central Water and 
Power Commission.—.Post permanent and appointment to 
be made on temporary basis initially. Pay:—Rs. 350—350 
—380—380—30—590—E. B.—30—77(__40—850. Higher 
initial pay to specially qualified and experienced candidate. 
Age:—elow 40 years. Relaxable for Government 
servants. Qualifications :—Essential:—-(i) Degree in 
Science or Engineering of recognised University. (ii) 
About three years’ journalistic experience pee in 
scientific line. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


5. One Deputy Director, Agricwitural Labour Enquiry 
and Cost of Living Index Scheme for Agricultural Labour, 
Ministry of Labour.—Post temporary. Pay:—Rs. 800—40 
—] ,000-—50—1,150. Higher initial pay -to . specially 
qualitied nnd experienced candidate. _Age:—Below 50 
years. Relaxable for Government servants. Qualifications: 
—-Essentlal:—(i) Master’s or equivalent Honours degree 
in Mathematics, Statistics, Economics or Commerce of 
recognised University. (11) About five years’ experience 
of conducting and analysing the results of large-scale 
socio-economic survey. (ili) Some administrative experi- 
ence. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s discretion 
in case of candidates otherwise well-qualified. 


PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, WEST BENGAL 


Advertisement No. 47 


APPLICATIONS are invited for the undermentioned 
staff for the college sanctioned for the Development of 
Undergraduate Studies and Welfare of College Students 
in West Bengal, located at Barisha, Narkeldanga, Bon 


Hooghl Vaishnab Ghat and Dum Dum. en are 
unsuitable for posts for the College at Dum Dum. For 
pe colleges both men and women are suitable. The 


“selacted candidates will be employees of the Governing 
Body of the College concerned and their conditions of 
service will be governed by the rules framed by the 
Governing Body with the approval of the Government. 
ا‎ will be on probation for two years. Rules regarding 
medical examination, efc., which apply to appointments 
under Government will also be applicable to candidates 
selected. Age of superannuation دز‎ 60 years. Benefits of 
Contributory Provident Fund will be allowed at the rate of 
63 per cent. for confirmed permanent staff, 


(a) Senior Lecturer in English (three posts) for colleges 
ا پر کی کر لد‎ জান Dum. The scale of pav ia 
Rs. 200 0—420— — 450 _. dearnass.-giiowance of 
109. 35 per اس‎ Higher initial: pay of Rs. 350 will be 
given to selected candidates. 


পাশ 
088117080015,-01) A ae Master’s degree of an Indian 
University or its equivalent, preferably with an Honours 
(ii) Teaching experience for five years. 


degree, in English. 
life of a 


(111) Capacity to participate in the corporate 


college. (iv) Age ordinarily below 45 years on 1st Septem- 
ber 1956. Qualifications relaxable at Commission’s 
discretion. 


(b) Lecturer in English (seven posts). One of the posts 
is for the college at Dam Dum. The seale of pay is 
Rs. 150—10—320—15—350 plas dearness allowance of 
Rs. 35 per month. Higher imitial pay may be allowed 
according to qualifications and experience. 


Qualifications-—Essential: (1) A good Master’s degree of 
an Indian University or its equivalent, preferably with 
teaching experience in Finglish. (ii) Age ordinarily below 
35 years on 18৮ September 1056. Desirable: Capacity to 
participate in the corporate life of a college. 


Age-limits im all cases relaxable for dixplaced persons. 
Other things being equal preference will be given to 
dtsplaced 7 ۰ 


Apply to Secretary with a treasury chalan for Ra. 5 under 
head ‘XXX VI—Miscellaneouns—Receipts of Public Service 


, Commission, West Bengal’ or a crossed Postal] Order of 


Rs. 5 payable to ‘‘Secretary, Public Service Commission, 
West Bengal’. Application form available from office ot 
Commission, Anderson Houso (ground floor), Alipore, 
Caleutta-27, personally or on sending a_ self-addressed 
stamped envelope. - 


Closing date 12th September 1956. 


8. C. CHOWDAURI, Secretary, 
Public Service Commission, West Bengal. 


Alipore, the 24th August 1956. 


OFFICE OF THE ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL, WEST 


BENGAL 


A COMPETITIVE examination will be held early in 
October 1956, to recruit about 60 Senior Accounts Clerks 
for employment in the various offices of the Executive 
Engineers under the Government of West Bengal. The 
subjects in which the candidates will be examined are (1) 
Essay or Precis and Draft, (ii) Elementary Book-Keeping, 
and (iii) Arithmetic and Mensuration. The precise dates 
of the examination will be intimated individually only to 
those whose candidatures are accepted. 


The scale of pay is Rs, 80—4—160—5—180 (Efficiency 
Bar after the 12th stage) plus the usual dearness and other 
allowances as admissible from time to time under the rules 
of the Government of West Bengal. Appointments will bo 
temporary for the present but may become permanent in 
due course. Successful candidates have also the prospect 
of becoming Divisional Accountants on passing the 
prescribed departmental examination. All appointments 
carry liability to serve anywhere under the Government of 
West Bengal. 


Candidates should be Qraduates of a _ recognised 


‘University. They should either be domiciled in West 


Bengal or have domiciliary qualifications for service under 
the Government of West Bengal. Age should not exceed 
24 years on the Ist October 1956. Relaxation may be 
permitted up to 30 years ordinarily and up to 33 years in 
very special cases in favour of clerks with experience of 
two years in the Accounts Branch of a P.W. Division or 
in the Works Audit Department of the Accountant- 
General’s Office. The age-limit in rospect of bone fide 
displaced persons may be relaxed by three years, if approved 
by the State Government. Any candidate, who is سیف‎ 
in service, should apply through the Head of hia office. 


Application forms and further particulars may be obtain- 
ed from the Superintendent, W.M. Section of this office, 
between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. on any working day except 
Saturdays, or by sending him a self-addressed large-sized 
stamped envelope. 


Application forms, duly filled in, should be either handed 
in personally in return for an acknowledgement or sont by 
3 post. In either case, they should be accompanied 

بس 
(i) a Treasury Chalan (in original) for Rs. 7-8 (Rs, 1-14‏ 
for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes candi-‏ 
dutes) creditable to the head “XX XVI—Miscella-‏ 
neous Departments—Central—M iscellaneous—‏ 
Examination Tees” ;‏ 

(ii) Original Matriculation certificate ; 

(iii) Original University degree, or a provisional certi- 
ficate issued by the Principal of a. college in 
anticipation of the award of a degree at a 
Convocation; and 

(iy) Copies (attosted by eo .Gaseiied Oficer) of two 
certificates of good character issued during the last 
two years. 


The রন should reach this office on or before the 
8th September 1956. | 


শি. L. BHALLA, 
Senjor Deputy Accountant-General (Works). 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS. 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 10 OF 1956. 


Mohini Choudhury of Unique Park, Behala, 24-Parganas, 
debtor-applicant. P 


To Kartick Chandra Dutta of 88/206۸ Gopalnagar Road, 
Calcutta-27, and 16 others, creditors, 


ON the 6th day of Angust 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter ofthe petition of the oly gray be heard on the 
10th day of September 1956, and that the said applicant 
do attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


M. M: BHATTACHARJKE, District Judge. 


Alipore, the 20th August 1056. ۱ 
০০০০০০০০৪০০ (667—1) 


Parr IL] 


সি اع ےسا تہ‎ বসাক উল 


a ae‏ رس سو 
(নানান ee‏ 


IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT JUDGE OF 
24-PARGANAS. 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 11 OF 1956. 


Bejoy Bhusan Chatterjee of 4/D Palm Avenue, - police- 
station Ballygunge, 24-Parganas, creditor-applicant. 


To Gosthw Behari Roy of 16/A Nandan Road, police- 
station Bhowanipur, Caleutta, debtor. 


ON the 13th day of August 1956, it was ordered that the 
matter of the petition ot the appligant be heard on the 
1761) day of September 1956, fod that the said applicant 
do attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


M. M. BHATTACHARJER, District Judge. 


Alipore, the 20th August 1956. 
(668—1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ALIPORE 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 13 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 7th March 1956 filed by 
Kanai Lal Mandal of 4/A, Kundu Lane, Belyachia, police- 
station Maniktala, 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the 
application of the debtor himself and on reading his 
application and hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the 
debtor be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


. It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 16th February 1957 from this date. 


Dated this 16th day of August 1956. 


5. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


(673—~1) 


IN THE STH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ALIPORE 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 17 OF 1956 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 3rd April 1956 filed by 
Sisir Kumar Ray of Bansdroni, police-station Tallygunge, 
24-Parganas, debtor, and on the application of the debtor 
himself and on rending his application and hearing his 
lawyer, it is ordered that the debtor be and the said debtor 
is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 13th February 1947 from this date. 


Dated this 13th day of August 1956. 


8. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. — 


(67. ...]) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ALIPORE 


~ 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 17 OF 1955. 


Kartick Chandra Bose of 2, Beleghata Main Road, police- 
station Beleghata, insolvent-applicant. 


To Creditors, if any. 7 
TAKE notice that the ahovenamed insolvent has applied 
at the Court for his discharge, and that the Court has fixed 


the 218٢ day of September 1956, at 10-30 o’clock for 
hearing the application, 


Dated this 20th day of August 1956. 


S. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


(675—1) 


TIE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 “97 


ےم ور 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ALIPORE 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO. 44 OF 1965 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 23rd August 1955,. filed 
by Sudhir Kumar Saha of Nungi-Batanagar, police-station 
Mohestala, 24-Purganas, debtor, and on the application of 
the debtor himself and on reading his application and 
hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the রা he and 
the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 30th January 1957 from this date. — 


Dated this 30th day of July 19656. 


8. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judgo. 


(671—1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ALIPORE 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 50 OF 1955. 


Mohammad Yusuf of 6, Gorachand Road, police-station 
Beniapnkur, 24-Parganas, insolvent-applicant. 


To Musstt. Ayesha Bibi of 43, Kimber Street, police-station 
Beniapukur, and 2 others, creditors. 


TAKE notice that the abovenamed insolvent has applied 
at the Court for his discharge, and that the Court has 
1159৭ the 14th day of September 1956, at 10.30 o'clock for 
hearing the application. 


Dated this 20th day of August 1956. 


নি. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


(676—1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE AT ALIPORE 


INSOLVENCY APPLICATION NO, 56 OF 1955. 


PURSUANT to a petition, dated 14th October 1955, filed 
by Manimohan Dalui of Khari Mahamaya, police-station 
Mathurapur, district 24-Parganas, debtor, and on the 
application of the debtor himself and on reading his 
application and hearing his lawyer, it is ordered that the 
deter be and the said debtor is hereby adjudged insolvent. 


It is further ordered that the debtor do apply for his 
discharge within 10th February 1957 from this date. 


Dated this 10th day of August 1956. 


9. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


(672—1) 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF - 
24-P ARGANAS. ۱ 


INSOLVENCY CASE NO. 48 OF 1956. 


Das of 27/11 Canal East Road, police-station‏ دو وو 
Maniktala, 24-Parganas, creditor-applicant,‏ 


To Radhanath Mitra of 46/1: Satkari Mitra Lane, 
Maniktala, 24-Parganas, debtor. 


ON the 10th day of August 1956, it was ordered that 
the matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
14th day of September 1956, and that the said applicant 
to attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


: : 
5. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Tudge. _ 


Alipore, the 20th August 1956. as 
: (869-) 


398 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


IN THE 4TH COURT OF THE SUB-JUDGE OF 
24-P ARGANAS. 


INSOLVENCY CASE 0. 49 OF 1956. 


Mani Lal Banspor of Halisahar Ruilway Quarter, 
24-Pargamas, debtor-applicant. 


To Chanarma Singh of Hazinagar, police-station Halisahar, 
24-Parganas and 6 others, creditors, 


ON the 36th day of August 1956, it was ordered that 
the matter of the petition of the applicant be heard on the 
21st day of September 1956 and that the said 18 
do attend to be examined by this Court on that date. 


এ. P. CHATTERJEE, Sub-Judge. 


Alipore, the 20th August 1956 
(670-—1) 


VIJAY SINGH BENGANT, LL.B., intends to be enrolled 
as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 


(646. +) 


ANATH BONDHU PAL, LU.B., intend to be enrolled‏ ,ا 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Caléutta.‏ 
)650—4( 


+ ' ey > ot 


I, ASWINTKUMAR SIL, LUL.B., intend to be enrolled 
as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


(65]—4) 


1, ARUN KUMAR SARKAR, LUL.B., intend to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


)65274( ہ 


SHRI MANORANJAN BASU, B.L., intends to be an 
Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 
(657—4) 


SANTI RANJAN SENGUPTA, LI.B., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate in the Calcutta High Court. 


(659—4) 


VISHWA NATH MEHKA, 11..8., intends to be 
enrolled as an Advocate of the Calcutta High Court. 


(690 .) 


[, JAYA KRISHNA KAUL. LL.B., intends to he 


enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court, Calcutta. 


(677—4) 


_KAMALA RANTA MAITRA, B.A. (Hons.), LLB., 
intends to be enrolled as an Advocate, Cal. High Court. 


(678-4) 


[Parr Til 


¢ TENDER NOTICE 


SEALED TENDERS are invited for printing of Electoral 
Rolls (Addenda and Corrigenda) of Cooch Behar district. 
Rates for prmting of full page of foolscap (folio) 0 
names, half-page and one-third page may be quoted. 


The rates will be inclusive of heading lines (i.e., top 
headings, two sets of column headings, ete.). Printing 
papers will be supphed by the undersigned. 


Tenders will be received by the undersigned up to 
5 p.m, of 10th September 1966 and will be opened on the 
llth September 1956, at 11 a.m. 


The tendorors will have to submit along with the tender 
a Clearance Certificate of income-tax and that of sales tax 
without which the tenders will not be recognised. 


Selected tenderers will have to deposit a security money 
the amount of which will be settled after selection of the 
Press, and to execute a security bond for due execution 
of work hefore printing order can be issued. 


The undersigned does not bind himself to accept the 
lowest tender and to reject any tender without assigning 
any reason, whatsoever. 


Accepted tenderer will be required to give delivory of 
the printed Rolls within 10 (ten) days from the date of 
delivery of papers. 


Other necessary particulars may be obtained from the 
District Election Office, Cooch Behar. 


A. K. BANERJEE, 
for Deputy Commissioner, Cooch Behar. 


Deputy Commissioner's Office, Cooch Behar (Election 


Branch), 14th August 1956. 


NOTICE is hereby given that Shri Dhirendra Ch. Paul 
having sold all his interest in the business of ‘Paul 6 
and Co.”’ of 69/2 Canning Street, Calcutta, to Shri Charu 
Ch. Sett, on 9th June 1056, Shri Charu Ch. Satt,has been 
carrying on the said business since that date as sole 
proprietor, 


CHARU CHANDRA SETT. 


Dated the 16th August 1956, 
(679—1) 


DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP 


PUBLIC notice is hereby given that the partnership 
heretofore subsisting between Shri Krishna Hea Krishna 
Chandra Basak, Kali Prosad Basak and the undersigned 
and 15 others carrying on business as Contractors ut 
Khargpur or elsewhere under the firm and atvle of Acme 
Engineering Works, Khargpur, has been dissolved as and 
from 31st Sravan 1363 B.S., corresponding to 16th August 
1956 and a new partnership has heen constituted under The 
same firm and style of Acme Finngineering Works, 
Khargpur, between the undersigned and 15 others as and 
from Isat Bhadra 1363 B.S. corresponding to 17th Aujrust 
1956. All debts and Habilities and claims due by and 
payable to the old firm now dissolved will henceforward be 
discharged and would be payable to the partnership now 


constituted, 


: SUDHENDU KUMAR BASAK, 
Partner. 
For self and on behalf 15 other partners. 


Dated the 16th day of Anguat 1956. 


(680—1) 


Pant TT} THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 899 


بسن پا পপ পাপা‏ لمات ৯০‏ پھھرت 
পাপ পাপ ১১০ ০‏ تد ee‏ بد জী‏ و اھ تورم می সপ‏ وب ےل ش جات ترجہ رہ جے- ক স্পিন‏ 


LIST OF WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS PUBLISHED DURING THE QUARTER ENDING 31st MARCH 1956 ہے‎ 


forwarding 
charges, 
Acts and Ordinances Rs. a. p. 
1 Hindi Translation of the Gangasagar Mela Act, 1953 (W. B. Act IV of 19538) ۰ ۱ ‘ 0 2 0 
2 West Bengal Act XXVIII of 1955 (The Calcutta Sports Act of 1955) 5 ৯ 5 7 . 0 2 0 
3 West Bengal Act XXXII of 1955 [The Calcutta Improvement (Amendment) Act, 950] es 0. 6 0. 
4 Act VIII of 1885 (The Bengal Tenancy ‘Act, 1886, as modified up to 15th September 1955) ৪4 100. 
5 Wert Bengal Act XIX of 1950 as modified up to Ist January 1956 (West Bengal Security Act, 1950) 0 4 0. 
6 Weat Bengal Act XIX of 1954 ٦7 7 7 ' 0 2 0 
7 West Bengal Ordinance I of 1956 [The Jadavpur University (Amendment) Ordinance, 1956) 9 1 09. 
8. West Bengal Act XXXIV of 1955 [The Bengal Security (Amendment) Act, 1055] - ১ 1 9 
9 ৬০৪১ Bengal Act IV of 1956 [Tho Cattle Trospass (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1955] ‘ee 0 1 0 
10 West Bengal Act V of 1947 as modified up to lst November 1955 [The ۷ ee قوش‎ 594 and Control 
(Temporary Provision) Act, 1947] as oe ১ 7 0 4 0 
11 West Bengal Act III of 1956 [The Damodar Valley Corporation (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1955] 800 0 1 0 ۱ 
18 West Bengal Code, Volume IV xs es os ٠ 7 রর এ 10 0 0 ; 
Manuals and Rules ۸ 
1 \ The West Bengal Boards Miscellaneous Rules, 1955 ১৪ 7 . 1 0 0 
2 \Fire Service Manual, Part I (corrected up to 5th May 1955) ie ۱ - 010 0 
3 Caloutta Improvement Trust Manual (corrected up to November 1951) & ৯ ۰ ۰ 1 0 
4 Weat Bengal Fire Service Training Manual = oe se ‘ 3 0 
5 Union Board Manual, Volume I (in English) (corrected up to March 19654) : : - 1 9. 
Reports ۲ 
1 Report of the Secondary Education Commission, West Bengal (August-November 1954) ٠ 1 0. 
2 Report on Public Instruction in West Bengal (for 1952-53) 7 ক a টু ae 3 0 
3 Annual Report on the Working of Co-operative Societics in West Bengal as on 30th June 1952 ۰ 112 0 | 
4 Administration Report of the Directorate of Commercial Taxes for the year ending the 31st March 1953 012 0 
5 Administration Report of the Directorate of Commercial Taxes for the year ending the 31st March 1952 ws 012 0 
6 Annual Administration Report on the Working of Bengal Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1944, for the year 1951-52 012 @ 
Statistical Publications 
1 Economic Survey of Small Industries, 1954, district Weat Dinajpur “4 nas ie 6 0 
2 Economic Survey of Small Industries, 1954, district Malda 7 ae 7 
Tribunal Awards 
1 Awards made by Tribunals for the quarter ending September 1955 se 5 ‘ : 112 0 
2 Awards made by Tribunals for the quarter onding Docomber 1950 5 0 0 
Finance Department Publications 
1 The Weat Bengal State Rupes, 1956 ve বনী ٠ . 1 0 0 
2 01511 Budget Estimate for the 3৩৪০ 1956-57 7 an = . # 0 
Periodicals 
1 Monthly Statistical Digest, Weat Bengal, Soptombor, Volume VIII of 1955, No. 6 ‘ 2 8 0 
2 Indian Law 6 طمو‎ Series, 1954, Volume II (July to December) ‘ 12 0 0 
8 Labour Review (September-October), 1955 7 7 ٠ | | Pao 
4 Monthly Statistical Digest, West Bengal, Volume VII, October 1955, No. 7 ; 2 8 0 
5 Monthly Statistical Digest, Weat Bongal, Volume VIII, Novomber 1955, No. 8 ; 2 8 0 
8 General Index to I. L. B., 1054, Volume I (January to June) x e ٠ 1 0 0 
Miscellaneous Publications 
1 Terminology to he used in the Public Services, 3rd Instalment 7 : 7 7 ৯9 0 


2 Wont Bengul Legislative Assembly 07990900785 12th 9019) (August-October 195( 


7 
Price 
exclusive ہ٠‎ 
sales tax and 


400 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 {Parr II 


Pay ARREARS উপ IE RATE EIS لد مر‎ উজ ও এ ৪ RE A এটি سے عم بای ا جا رد حر رر سم‎ 


পার পা সা ০৭ FR ee WRT 


WEST BENGAL GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS PUBLISHED DURING THE QUARTER ENDING 30th JUNE 1956 
' Price 
exclusive of 
sales tax and 


forwarding 
charges. 
Acts and Ordinances 1 Re. a. 0, 
1 West Bengal Act XXXV of 1955 (West Bengal Estates Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1055] oe “4 0 2 0 
2 Weat Bengal Act IT of 1956 (Bongal Financo (Sales Tax) (Third Amendment) Act, 1900] ৯৪ a 0 1 0 
8 West Bengal Act I of 1056 [West Bengal Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1955) ৭ ows ×9 0 0 
4 West Bengal Act ۸5500111 of 1955 (Jadavpur University Act, 1955) oe 7 | 7 7 0 2 0 
& West Bengal Act XIX of 1955 [Bengal Tenancy (Amendmont) Act, 1955, in Bengali} 1s +s 0 1 0 
6 West Bengal Act V of 1956 (The Bengal Nurses (Amendment) Act, 1955] 7 7 7 010 
7 West Bengal Act VI of 1956 (The Indian Registration (West Bengal Amendment) Act, 1955] ae 7 0-1 0 
8 Weat Bengal Act VJ1 of 1956 [The Jadavpur University (Amondment) Act, 1956] 7 wt ws 0 1 0 
9 West Bengal Act X of 1956 (Tho West Bengal Land Reforms Act, 1956)' ہ۰۰‎ 7٠ 7 کی‎ 87 0 
10 West. Bengal Clinical Establishments (Amendment) Act, 1954—in Hindi = a ৮ ০ ve 0 ৪8 0 
۱11 কারা আইন, ১৮৯৪ (India Act 9 of 1894—in Bengali) 7 ox : 7 و‎ 1 0 0০0 
12 Bengal Act IV: of 1866 (The Calcutta Police Act, 1866) 7 27 7 রঃ 012 9 
۱ (3 West Bengal Act XII of 1956 (The West Bengal.Premises Tenancy Act, 1956) ns ae ۶7 0 0 


14 West Bongat Act XITI of 1956 (Tho West Bengal Hindu Social Disabilities Romoval (Repealing) Act, 1950 ০1909 90 


15 Tho West Bengal Taxes on entry of goods m Local Arcas 258 টি 1956 (West রি Ordinance IT "7٦ 
of 1956) ছা es 0 


i6 West Bongal Act IX of 1956 [The West Bengal Appropriation (No. 2) Act, 1956] 7 7 «৬ 01 9 


Miscellaneous Publications 


1 West Bengal District Records, New Series, Burdwan (Letters received, 1788-1802) রর ae কর 20 0 0 
2 Bengal Maternity Benefit Rules, 1940 ~~ a 44 nF as - ৪ 0 1 0 
3 Marketing of Potatoes in West Bengal 7 vs oer ৮৪ we re 0 8 9 
4 Quarterly Legislation Recorder No. 28, October-Decomber 1055 4s an ৪ ee 814 0 


5 Annual Report on the Survey and Settlement operations in West Bengal for the year ending 30th September 1954 2 4 0 


6 Annual Report on the Administration of the Factories Act, West Bengal, for the year 1953 7 7 4 0 0 
7 A note on the Development of Small Industries 7 ٠ oe oe ٠ oe 0 6 0 

8 Report on the Administration of criminal justice in the State of Weat 00ِ" and the territory of سس‎ and ._ 
Nicobar Islands during the year 1064 7 oe ۰ شف‎ 29 0 
9 Awards made by the Tribunsla—Quartor ending March 1954 as 7 7 ৮৯ | ee 0 2 0 
10 West Bengal Legislative Assembly Proceedings (August-October 1955) Volume XII, No. 2 ۰ oe 9 0 9 
11 West Bengal Clerkship Examination Question Papers for 1955 + 7 7 94 0 
12 13, 0. A. 0 Exemination Question Paper, December 1955 as ae se 7 ne 0 2 90 
18 Gradation List of Gazetted Police Officers in West Bengal corrected up to lat November 1955 -7 নি 2 120 
14 Monthly Statistical Digest, December 1955, Volume VIII, No, 9 = 7 রর 7 2 8 0 

Rules 
1 Rules for the grant of loans under the Low-Income Group Housing Scheme for Co-operative Societies a 0 4 0 
2 পশ্চিমবঙ্গ স্থানীয় ى جو‎ দ্রব্যাদি প্রধেশ কর নিয়মাবলী ১৯৫৫ تک‎ ٠ ٠ ১৯0 4 0 
এ Reports 


Annual Report on the Health and Population of West Bengal for the year 1952 7 ٠ ve 7 8 O 


Part IT] 


٠ 


Acts and Ordinances 


1 Bengal Act VI of 1933 (The Bengal Suppression of Immoral Traffic Act, 1933) 


2 West Bengal Act VIII of 1956 (The West Bengal Appropriation Act, 1956) 


8 کر بب‎ (অপরাধ) আইন ১৯৫৫ (২২ নং আইন ১৯৫৫) ۰ 


4 cates বিলোপ “হন ১৯৫৫ ٠ 


THE 01140707204 GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1961 


401 


ean A ڑا‎ পপ ৮ রা শসা OFA موہ‎ পপর ۔ چیہ‎ 


4 


& West Bengal Ordinance No, III of 1956 (The West Bengal Bargadars Ordinance, 1056) 


6 ১১ নং আইন ১৯৫৫ (ত রত পরকার) ওঘধ (সংশোধন) আইন ১৯৫৫ = 


7 West Bongal Act XI of 1956 [The West Bengal Molasses Control (Amendment) Act, 1956) 
» 


Election rules framed under the Calcutta Muniwipal Act, 1 ee 


Miscellaneous Publications 


1 West Bengal Legislative Council Debates, Volume 1 of 1955 (Seventh Session, August-October, 1955) 


2 Vital Statistics Special Report of Health Directorate (State Volume, 1954) 


8 পাঠ” চা প্রাথমিক বিদ্যালয় বুণ্তিপা পূৰভাগ ٠ 

4 Quarterly Legislation Recorder No. 29 (January-March, 1956) oe 

5 Roads for Prosperity ٠ is 7 
۲۵۱ا‎ 


Journal of Technology, Volumo'l, No. I, June 1956 (West Bengal Engineering College) 


Bales tax and forwarding charges extra 


Avadlable from— 


Weat Bengal Goyernmen t Press, Publication Branch, 38 Gopalnagar Road, Caicutte-27, 


WEST BENGAL QOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS PUBLISHED DURING THE MONTH OF JULY 6 


Price 
exclusive of 


sales tax and 


forwarding 
charges. 


Ra. 


0 


81 


5٘9 


82. 


রি 


0. 


0 


010 06 


402 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Catoutta office of 
issue are statod to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value has been received from the person/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as having 
a right to thom is/are warned to communicate at once with 
the undersigned :— 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


[Parr IT 


مم 
NOTES‏ 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Caloutta office of 
issue are stated to have been destroyed and an application for 
payment of their value has been received from the poraon/ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any 
other person/party who consider(s) himuself/themselves as 
having a right to them is/are warned to communicate at once 
with the undersigned ১ 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant, 
Re, - 
۷۴... 7 H/3-518213 100 Shri Ajetali Mondol, 
(Hindi). village - Harbati, 
H /3-634862 100 post office Mashunda, 
(Hindi) district 24-Parganas. 
H/18-433108 100 
(Hindi). 
W. 0, 7/56-57 =H /13-026531 100 Shri G, Mullick 27/6 
(Hindi). Ramkanta Mistry 
Lane, Calcutta, 
W.D., 8/56-57 8181-440 100 Sm. Kesari Debi, 45 
(Hindi), Forest Road, Howrah. 
H/7-951628 100 
রান 
/9-073878 100 
{non-Hindi). 
H/14-683469 100 
(non-Hindi), 
111-72 100 
(non-Hindi), 
H /4-280025 100) 
(Hindi). 
W.D. 8/50-57 H/6-641515 100 Shri Sangat Ram Kak- 


(non- Hindi). 


ria, 1270 Chandni 


Register No, Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant, 
Ka. 
W.D. 10/56-57 B/61-919528 100 Shri Asrar Ahmad, vil- 
lage Dolair Ganj, post 
ء‎ office Gotni, district 
Partabgarh, 
W.D. 11/56-57 6-45 100 Shri Sangam Lal Miara, 
(non-Hindi). 46/122 Badshahi 
A/19-985586 100 Naka, Kanpur. 
B/71-746656 100 
W.D. 12/56-567  A/20-959690 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 
B/80-184161 100 46/122 Badshahi 
B/6-124586 100 Naka, Kanpur. 
H/11-395463 100 
(non-Hindi), 


P, KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer, 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Departmont, Calcutta, the 30th 


July 1956. 


Chowk, Delhi. 


P, KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer, 


Reserve Bank of Indias, Issue Department, Calcutta, the 28th 
July 1956, 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta offico of‏ ہ: 
ssue are stated to have been destroyed and an application for‏ 
psyment of their'value has been received from the person/‏ 
party whose names are shown against the numbers. Any‏ 
other person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as‏ 
having a right to them is/are warned to communicate at once‏ 
with the undersigned :—‏ 


wr" 


Register No. Notes No. Value, Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Ra, 

W.D. 13/56-57 A/51-858715 100 Met. Dhan Kaur, wife 
of late Phula Singh, 
village Mehandipur, 
post office Mukerian, 
Gistrict Hoshiarpur. 

W.D. 14/56-57 1 8 100 Shri Amer Singh, B.A., 

(Hindi). Managing Officer, 
Civil Secretariat, 

Jullundur City. 
W.D. 16/56-57 ۴/1645 100 Shri Sangam Lal Misra, 
(Hindi). 46/122 Badshahi 

1810-4 100 Naka, Kanpur, 

(non Hindi). 
W.D, (0/56-57 1111-82 100 Shri Shiw Narayan 
(Hindi). Jhawar, 010, Hanu- 
H/2-621973 100 man Store, Biswa 
(non-Hindi). Singha Road, post 
office and — district 
Cooch Behar. 


P, KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer, 
: 


Reserve Bank of India, Iesue Department, Caloutta, the lat 
August 1956, ) 


NOTES 


PORTIONS of the following notes of the Calcutta office of iasuo 
are stated to have been dostroyed and applicationa for payment 
of their value have been received from the نیشن میں موی‎ whose 
names are shown inst the numbers. Any othor person/ 
party who consider(s) himself/themselves as having a right 
to them is/are warned to communicate at once with the under- 


signed ےہ‎ 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Ra. 
W.D. 24/56-57 18-78 1009 ‘Shri Kashi Nath 
cae Sharma, Mukhtear, 
/1-130773 100 Sitamarhi Court, dis- 
(Hindi). trict Muzaffarpur. 
W.D. 26/56-57 3/1-9 100 Shri Jugal Kishore 
Mehra, (221 Chandni 
Chowk, Delhi. 
৮.1), 26/56-57 H/14-263365 100 Shri Maruti Piraji Mali, 
(Non-Hindi). village Nimbhoroe, 
Tal-Phaltan, district 
Satara (North). 
W.D. 27/56-57 H/8-189303 100 Shri Harendra Nath 
(Hindi). Roy, c/o. Shri Shakti 
Sanyal, Ram Sita- 
para, Nabadwip, ٥ 
trict Nadia. 
W.D. 28/56-57 H/8-447090 100 Shri Gopi Shyam Kas- 
(Non-Hindi), togi, 0/09. Kadhe- 
shyam Harishyam, 


W.D. 29/56-57 


H/1-713384 


(Non-Hindi). 


100 


Baraf, Chowk, Luck- 
now. 


Shri Janaki Nath 
Biswas, village ۰ 
chintapur, post office 
Baruipura, district 


(Non-Hindi). Murshidabad, West 
Bengal. 
W.D. 30/56-57 H/8-904946 100 Shri Kumud Behari 
(Hindi), Banik, 167/21 
H /0-630921 ] Upper Circular 
(Hindi), Road, Caletitta, 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Tasue Department, Calcutta, the 22nd 
August 1956, 


Part IT] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90, 1956 ۲ 40:5 


Pn ere EA সন 


NOTES. 


PORTIONS of the following notes of 59508100058, office of 
issue are stated to have been destroyed and applications for pay- 
ment of their value have been received from the persons/party 
whose names are shown against the numbers, Any other 
person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as having a 
right to them ia/are warned to communicate at once with the 
undersigned :— 


Rogister No. Notes No. Value. Name and address of 
the applicant. 
Ra. 
W.D. 20/58-57 1/4-2 200 Shri Sahangoo, son of 
(Hindi). Shri Ram MHarakh, 
village Gulaura, post 
office Nai Bazar, Bhae 


dohi, district Vara- 
he 


W.D. 21/56-57 H/10-980247 100 Shri = Trinath Das 
{Non-Hindi) Bhayana, Head Con- 
stable Clerk, 1.8.۰. 
Office, Kashmeri 


Gate, Delhi. 


W.D. 22/56-57 H/3-400317 100 Shri Kishin Chand 
(Hindi). Madandas Panasari, 
14, Marothiya Bazar, 


Indore City, 


۷ 0. 23/56-67 H/8-006943 100 Shri Raj Narayan Tew- 
(Hindi), ari, 22, Ram Tanu 


Boae Lane, Calcutta. 


P, KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Jasue Department, Calcutta the 17th 
August 1966. 


NOTES 


PORTIONS cf the following notes of the Calcutta office of 
issue are atated to have been destroyed and applications for. 
payment of their value have been received from the persone/ 
party whose names are shown againat the numbers, Any other 
person/party who consider(s) himself/themselves as having a 
right to them are warned to communicate at once with the 
undersigned :-- 


Register No. Notes No. Value. Name and address 
of the applicant. 
= 
Re. 
W.D.17/56-57 1155 100 Shri Sabaru Ram 
(non-Hindi). Ijardar, village Now- 
gong, P, O. Bhella 
via Barpeta, district 
Kemrup, 

W.D.18/56-57 78/81-065015 .. 100 Shri Ram Dhani Rai, 
Cjo Shri Jagadish 
Ojha, village and 
P. O. Nakha, district 

Sahabad, Bihar. 
W.D.19/56-57 H/1-003242 100 Shri Kashi Nath Mul- 
* (70701). lick, 59 Raja Naba 
H/12-783809 100 Kissen Street, Cal- 

(non-Hindi). cutta-5, 


P. KARUNAKARAN, Currency Officer. 


Reserve Bank of India, Issue Department, Calcutta, the llth 
August 1956. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956‏ مو 


STOLEN 


THE Government Promissory Notes Nos. CA0(67478, 


of them or order the proprietors by whom they were never 
endorsed to any person, having been lost, stolen or 
destroyed, notice is hereby given that payment of the 
above notes and the interest hereupon have been stopped 
at the Public Debt Office, Reserve Bank of India, Calcutta, 
and that application is about to be made for the issue of 
the duplicates in favour of the proprietors. The public are 
cautioned against purchasing or otherwise dealing with 
the abovementioned securities 


KANAI LAL GHOSE AND KRISHNA CHANDRA 
GHOSE. 
C/o. Shri ‘Hari Hor Sett. 
Palpara, Chandernagore. 


(665-3) 


[Parr 11 


siete 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA. 


٥ Mational Library. 

IN response to public opinion, the working hours of the 
Reading Rooms and the Lending Section at Belvedere have 
been extended with effect from the 16th August 1953. The 
reviaed working houra are specified below :— 

Week days (including Saturdays)—9 a.m. to 8 p.m 
Sundays and holidays—1l0 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Lending Section— 
Week days (including Saturdays)—10 a.m. to 6 p.m 
Sundays and holidaye—l0 a.m. to 1-80 p.m. 
The Reading Rooms and the Lending Section will, how- 


ever, remain entirely closed on the following days of the 
year سب‎ 


(7) Republic Day, (ii) independence Day and {iii) 
Mahatma Gandhi’s Birth. Day. 

Persons above 18 years of age are eligible to make use 
of the Library; which is a free lending Library open &ৈ। 
any one residing in any part of the Indian Union. There 
is no subscription to pay but security in cash is essential. 


B 8. KESAVAN 
Belvedere, Calcutta-27. the 6th March 1954. 


Registered No, C207 


7 


0:1۲٢٢ ۷ 
2 


0 
রর 
' 


৫ 


teed 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 1956 


PART V—Acts of the Parliament of India assented to by the President 
and Ordinances promulgated by the President 


COVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Ministry of Law sss. 


The following Act of Parliament received the assent of 
the President on the 18th June, 1956 and is hereby published 
for general information :— : 


ACT No. XXXI of 1956 


THE LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION ACT, 1956 
[18th June, 1956. ] 


An Act to provide for the natwnalisation of 0116 insurance 
business in India by transferring all such 087,888 to a 
Corporation اس‎ for the purpose and to provide 
for the regulation and control of the business of the 
Corporation and for matters connected therewith or 
incidental thereto. 


_ Be it enacted by Parliament in the Seventh Year of the 
Republic of India as follows :— 


CHAPTER I 
PRELIMINARY 
1. (7) This Act may be called the 1۸:۸0 Insurance Cor- Short 
poration Act, 1956., title and 


(4) It shall come into force on such date as the Central ment. 
Government may, by notification in the Qffictal Gazette, 
appoint, 


2. In this Act, ynless the context otherwise requires,— Dofinitions. 


(7) “appointed day’? means the date on which the Cor- 
poration is established under section 3; 


(4) “composite insurer’? means an insurer carrying on in 
addition to controlled business any other kind of insurance 
business; 


238 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr V 


a 


(3) ‘‘controlled business’? means— 


(1) in the case of any insurer specified in sub-clause (6) 
(17) or sub-claute (6) of clause (9) of section 2 of 
the Insurance Act and carrying on life insurance 
business—~ 7 

(a) all his business, if he carries on no other class of 
Insurance business ; 
(b) all the business appertaining to 1118 life insurance 
* business, if he carries on any other class ot 
insurance business alsay 


(০) all his business, if his certificate of registration 
under the Insurance Act in respect of general 
insurance business stands wholly cancelled for 
a period of more than six months on the 19th 
day of January, 1956; 


(87) in the case of any other insurer specified in clause 
(9) of section 2 of the Insurance Act and carrying 
on life insurance business— 

৯৫) all his* business in India, if he carries on no other 
class of insurance business in India; 


(6) all the business appertaining to his life insurance 
business in India, if he carries on any other 
class of insurance business also in India; 


(c) all his business in India, if his certificate of 
registration under the Insurance Act in respect 
of general insurance business in India stands 
wholly cancelled for a period of more than six 
months on the 19th day of January, 1956; 


Eaplanation.—An insurer is said to carry on no class of 

- insurance business other than life insurance 
business, if, in addition to life insurance business, 
he carries on only capital redemption business or 
annuity certuin business or hoth; and the expres- 
sion ‘‘business appertaining to his life insurance 
business’’ in sub-clauses (5) and (tz) shall be 
construed accordingly ; 


(121) in the case of a provident society, as defined in 
section 65 of the Insurance Act, all its business; 


(tv) in the case of the Central Government or a State 
Government, all life insurnace business carried 
on by it, subject to the exceptions specified in 
section 44; 


(4) “Corporation”? means the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India established under section 3; 


(9) “Insurance Act’? means the Insurance Act, 1938; 4 of 1938. 


(6) ‘insurer’? means an insurer as defined in the Insu- 
rance Act who carries on life insurance business in India 
and includes the Government and a provident society as 
defined in section 65 of the Insurance Act; 


(7) “member” means a member of the Corporation; 


Part V] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 299 


Preteen eee 


(8) “prescribed”? means prescribed by rules made under 
this Act; 
opi ’ 18 کر‎ 
(9) ‘Tribunal’ means a Tribunal constituted under 


section 17 and having jurisdiction in respect of any matter 
under the rules made under this Act; 


(70) all other words and expressions used Herein but not 
defined and defined in the Insurance Act shall have the 
meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act. 


CIFAPTER II 
EsrantisumMent or Lire Insurance Corporation or ].4۸ 


3. (/) With effect from such date as the Central Govern- Establish- 
ment may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, ment and 
there shall be established a Corporation called the 11119 13359717076 


tion of Life 
Insurance Corporation of India. Insurance 


(©) The Corporation shall be a body corporate having সাদ 
perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject “۸ 
to the provisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispoge of 
property, and may by its name sue and be sued. 


4. (2) The Corporation shall consist of such number of Constitu- 
persons not exceeding fifteen as the Central Government may tion ofthe 
think fit to appoint thereto and one of them shall be appoint- oe 7 
ed hy the Central Government to be the Chairman thereof. | 


(4) Before appointing a person to be a member, the Cen- 
tral Government shall satisfy itself that that person will 
have no such financial or other interest as is likely to affect 
prejudicially the exercise or performance by him of his func- 
tions as a member, and the Central Government shall also 
satisfy itself from time to {ime with respect to every member 
that he has no such interest; and any person who is, or whom 
the Central Government proposes to appomt and who has 
consented to be, a member shall, whenever required by the 
Central Government so to do, furnish to it such information 
as ‘the Central Government considers necessary for the per- 
formance of its duties under this sub-section. 


(3) A member who is in any way directly or indirectly 
interested in a contract made or proposed to be made by the 
Corporation shall, as soon as possible after the relevant cir- 
cumstances have come to hig knowledge, disclose the nature 
of his interest to the Corporation; and the member shal] not 
take part in any deliberation or discussion of the Corpora- 
tion with respect to that contract. 


§. (7) The original capital of the Corporation shall be Capital of 
five crores of rupees provided by the Central Government the Cor- 
after due appropriation made by Parliament by law for the Poretion. 
purpose, and the terms and conditions relating to the provi- 
sion of such capital shall be such as may be determined by 
the Central Government. 


(4) The Central Government may, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Corporation, reduce the capital of the Corporation 
to such extent and in such manner as the Central Govern- 
ment may determine. 


240 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 380, 1956 [Part ٦ 


সপ্ত یس نرہ‎ উর 


CHAPTER ITI 
FUNCTIONS OF THE 007 


Functions 6. (1) Subject to the rules, if any, made by the Central 

ofthe Cor- Government in this behalf, it shall be the general duty of the 

0 Corporation to carry on life insurance business, whother in 
or outside India, and the Corporation shall so exercise its 
powers under this Act as to secure that life insurance busi- 
ness 18 developed to the best advantage of the community. 


(4) Without prejudice tothe generality of the provisions 
contained in sub-section (1) but subject to the other provi- 
sions contained in this Act, the Corporation shall have 
power-— , 


(a) to carry on capital redemption business, annuity 
certain business or reinsurance business in so far 
as such reinsurance business appertains to life 
insurance business. 


(9) subject to the rules, if any, made by the Central 
Gtovernment in this behalf, to invest the funds of 
the Corporation in such manner as the Corpora- 
tion may think fit and to take all such 
steps as may be necessary or expedient for the 
protection or realisation of any investment; in- 
cluding the taking over of and administering 
any property offered as security for the invest- 
ment until a suitable opportunity arises for its 
disposal ; 

(c) to acquire, hold and dispose of any property. for the 
purpose of its business; 


(d) to transfer the whole or any part of the life insurance 
business carried on outside India to any other 
person or persons, if in the interests of the Corno- 
ration it 18 expedient so to do; 


(6) to advance or lend money upon the security of any 
movable or immovable property or otherwise; 


(f) to borrow or raise any money in such manner and 
upon such security as the Corporation may think 
fit ; 

(9) to carry on either by itself or through any subsidiary 
any other business in any case where such other 
business was being carried on by a subsidiary of 
an insurer whose controlled business has been 
transferred to and vested in the Corporation under 
this Act: 


(h) to carry on any other business which may seem to the 
forporation to be capable of being conveniently 
carried on in connection with its business and cal- 
culated directly or indirectly to render profitable 
the business of the Corporation: 


(i) to do all such things as may be incidental or con- 
ducive to the proper exercise of any of the powers 
of the Corporation. 


_ (3) In the discharge of any of its functions the Corpora- 
tion shall act so far as may be on business principles. 


any 


Parr Vj 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


241 


i‏ سس رات SA‏ سس تس ee‏ رر سس مد سو سس سد ےوسسپوچژژژچپ پژچجڈجسچھہت 


CHAPTER IV 


TRANSFER oF ExistiInc Jarre InSurANcE BuSINESS To THE 
001071 ۸7107 


7. (1) On the appointed day there shall be transferred 
to and vested in the Corporation all the assets and liabilities 
uppertaining to the controlled business of all insurers. 


(4) The assets appertaining to the controlled business of 
un insurer shall be deemed to include all rights and powers, 
and all property, whether movable or immovable, apper- 
taining to his controlled .business, including, in particular, 
eash balances, reserve funds, investments, deposits and all! 
other interests and mghta in or arising out of such property 
as may be in the possession of the insurer and all ae of 
account or documents relating to the controlled business of 
the insurer; and liabilities shall be deemed to include all 
debts, liabilities and obligations of whatever kind then 
existing and appertaining to the controlled business of the 
msurer. 


Explanation.-The expression ‘‘assets appertaining to the 
controlled business of an insurer’— 


(৫) in relation to a composite insurer, includes that part 
of the paid-up capital of the insurer or Assets re- 
presenting such part which has or have been 
allocated to the controlled business of the insurer 
in accordance with the rules made in this behalf; 


(b) in relation to a Government, means the amount lying 
. the credit of that business on the appointed 
day. 


(3) Where any such assets are subject to any trust re- 
ferred to in sub-section (6) of section 27 of the Insurance Act 
or to any other trust for the benefit of policy-holders, the 
assets shall be deemed to have vested in the Corporation free 
from any such trust. 


8. (/) Where an insurer whose controlled business 18 to 
be transferred to and vested in the Corporation under section 7, 
has established a provident or superannuation fund or any 
other like fund for the benefit of his employees and consti- 
tuted a trust in respect thereof (hereinafter in this section 
referred to as an existing trust), the moneys standing to the 
credit of any such fund on the appointed day, together with 
any other assets belonging to such fund, shall, subject to the 
provisions of sub-section (4)) stand transferred to and vest 
in the Corporation on the appointed day free from any such 
trust. ۱ 

(4) Where all the employees of any such insurer do not 
become employees of the Corporation under section 11, the 
noneys and other assets belonging to any such fund as is 
referred to in sub-section (1), shall be apportioned between 
the trustees of the fund and the Corporation in the prescribed 
manner; and in case of any dispute regarding such apportion- 
oS ea decision 01 the Central Government thereon shall 
8 final. 


Transfer 

of ۵8 
and 
(08 
of existing 
insurers 
carrying on 
controlled 
business 7 


Provident, 
supera- 
nnuation 
and other 
like funds, 


242 


Genera! 
effect of 
vesting of 
controlled 
business. 


Provisions 
ag 0088 
composive 


11781116013. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


=, سے‎ ews dow এই আক, یپ‎ ৫৭ 0 سے ٹر‎ 1 1 A nt 1 
es ڈے وہ ساد ہ کس‎ ey ہے‎ আস ۳۰۳۱۳۳۳ جا‎ ভি ۔۔‎ Sea epee অক ৮ ৯ 8 رس‎ 5111 01 1 a ইহ ے ڈیٹ‎ ০০ 


(3) The Corporation shall, as soon as may be after the 
appointed day, constitute in reapect of the moneys and other 
assets which are transferred to and vested in it under this 
section, one or more trifsts having objects as similar to the 
objects of the existing trusts as in the circumstances may be 
practicable. 


(7) Where all the moneys and other assets belonging to 
an existing trust are transferred to and vested in the Corpo- 
ration under this section, the trustees of such trust, shall as 
from the appointed day, be digcharged from the trust, except 
as respects things done or omitted te be done before the 
appointed day. | 


9, (1) Unless otherwise expressly provided by or under 
this Act, all contracts, agreements and other instruments of 
whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately 
before the appointed day and to which an imsurer whose con- 
trolled business has been transferred to and vested in the 
Corporation 1s a party or which are in favour of such insurer 
shall in so far as they relate to the controlled business of the 
insurer be of as full force and effect against or in favour of 
the Corporation, as the case may be, and may be enforced 
or acted upon as fully and effectually as if, instead of the 
insurer, the Corporation had been a party thereto or as if 
they had been entered into or issued in favour of the 
Corporation. 


(4) If on the appointed day any suit, appeal or other 
legal proceeding of whatever nature 1s pending by or against 
an insurer, then, in so far as it relates to his controlled 
business, it shall not abate be discontinued or be in any way 
mrejudicially affected by reason of the transfer to the Corpo- 
ration of the business of the insurer or of anything done 
under this Act, but the suit, appeal or other proceeding may 


-be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the 


Corporation. 


10. (7) For the removal of doubts it 18 hereby declared 
that in any case where an insurer whose controlled business 
has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation under 
this Act is a composite insurer, the provisions of the preceding 
sections shall only apply to the extent to which any property 
appertains to his controlled business and to rights and powers 
acquired, and to debts, liabilities and obligations incurred, 
and to contracts, agreements and other instruments made by 
the insurer for the purposes of his controlled business and to 
legal proceedings relating to those purpoes, and the provi- 
sions of those sections shall be construed accordingly, 


(৬) The Central Government may, by rules made in this 
behalf, provule— 


(a) tor the determination of the question whether any 
property appertains to his controlled business or 
whether any rights, powers, debts, liabilities or 
obligations were acquired or incurred ar any con- 
tract, agreement or other instrument was made 
by the insurer for the purposes of his controlled 
business or whether any documents relate to those 
purposes ; 


[Part | 


Part V| THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 243 
re eerie 


(b) for the allocation of the paid-up capital or assets 
representing such paid-up capital as the case muy 
be, between the controlled business of the insurer 
and any other business ? 


(c) for substituting for any agreements entered into by 
any insurer partly for the purposes of his controlled 
business and partly for other purposes separate 
agreements in the requisite terms and for any 
upportionments and indemnities consequent 
thereon ; : . 


(৫) for the severance -of leases comprising property of 
which part only is transferred to and vested in the 
Corporation by virtue of this Act and for appor- 
tionments consequent on such severance; 


(e) for the apportionment and the making of financial 
adjustments with respect to any debts, liabilities 
or obligations incurred by any such insurer partly 
for the purposes of his controlled business and 
partly for other purposes and for any necessary 
variation of mortgages and encumbrances relating 
to such debts, liabilities or obligations ; 


(f) for the apportionment of the moneys and other assets 
belonging to any provident or superannuation 
fund or any other like fund to which the provisions 
of section 8 do not apply between persons employed 
in connection with the controlled business of an 
insurer and other persons; 


(y) for any other matters supplementary to or conse- 
quential on the matters aforesaid for which provi- 
sion appears to be necessary or expedient. 


(3) All rules made under this section shall be laid for not 
[৬৪৪ than thirty days before both Houses of Parliament as 
soon as possible after they are made, and shall be subject to 
such modifications as Parliament may make during the 
session in which they are so laid or the session immediately 
following. 


(4) Where at any time before the expiration of six months 
from the appointed day » question hag arisen under this 
section or under any rules made thereunder as to whether 
چم‎ property is or was held or used bv the insurer for the 
purposes of his controlled business, the question shall be 
referred to the Tribunal for decision. 


11. (1) Every whole-time employee of an insurer whose Transfer 
controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the of service 
Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or % রা 
mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately Of terrors 
before the appointed day shall, on and from the appointed to the Cor- 
day, become an employee of the Corporation, and shall hold poration. 
his office therein by the same tanure, at the same remunera- 
tion and upon the same terms and conditions und with the 
same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and 
other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed 
day if this Act had not been passed, and shall continue to 


244 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90, 06 


{Part V 


Transfer of 
services of 
existing 
employees 
of chief 
agents 

of insurers 
to the 
Corpora- 
tion in 
certain 
38898, 


do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation is 
terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions 
are duly altered by the Corporation : 


Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall 
apply to any such employee who has, by notice in writing 
given to the Cental (tovernment prior to the appointed day, 
intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the 
Corporation. 


2(۰ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) 
or In any contract of service, the Central Government may, 
for the purpose of rationalising the pay scales of employees 
of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to 
and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remunera- 
tion payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the 
Corporation and its policy-holders a reduction is called for, 
alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remu- 
neration in such manner as it thinks fit; and if the alteration 
is not acceptable to-any employee the Corporation may ter- 
minate his employment on giving him compensation equi- 
valent to three months’ remuneration unless the contract of 
service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of 
termination. 


Explanation.—The compensation payable to an employee 
under this sub-section shall be in addition to and shall not 
affect any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any 
other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under 
his contract of service. 


(3) If any question arises as to whether any person was 
a whole-time employee of an insurer or as to whether any 
employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with 
the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the 
appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central 
(tovernment whose decision shall be final. 


(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, or im any other law for the time heing 
in force, the transfer of the services of any employee of an 
insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such em- 
ployee to any compensation under that Act or other law, and 
no such claim shall he entertained by any court, tribunal or 
other authority. 


12, Subject to such rules as the Central Government 
may make in this behalf, every whole-time salaried employee 
of a chief agent of an insurer whose controlled business 1188 
been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and,— 


(a) who was employed by the chief agent wholly or 
mainly in connection with the controlled business 
of the insurer; | 


(9) whose salary on the appointed day did not exceed 
five hundred rupees per mensem; and 


(c) who was in the emplyoment of the chief agent for 
a continuous সদ of not less than one year 
immediately before the appointed day; 


14 of 1947, 


Part ٣ز‎ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 6 


বা 
4০ 


শপ _‏ ٦ں‏ 
از ھا 


shall, on and from the appointed day, become an employee 
of the Corporation and the provisions of section 11 shall, so 
far as may be, apply in relation gto such employee as they 
apply in relation to a whole-time employee of the insurer: 


Provided that this section shall not apply except in cases 
where the chief agent of the imsurer was required under the 
terms of his contract with the insurer to render the prescribed 
services to policy-holders of the insurer. 


Explanation.—In the case of a whole-time salaried em- 
ployee of a chief agent who has been retrenched by the chief 
agent on or after the 19th day of January, 1956, the provisions 
of this section shall apply as if for the words “the appointed 
day’’ the words and figures 506 19th day of January, 1060) 
had been substituted. 


13. (4) Where any property appertaining to the con- 
trolled business of an insurer has been transferred to and 
vested in the Corporation under this Act, then,— 


(a) every person, in whose possession, custody or control 
any such property may be, shall deliver the pro- 
perty to the Corporation forthwith, 


(b) any person who, on the appointed day, has in his 
possession, custody or control any books, documents 
or other papers relating to such controlled busi- 
ness shall he liable to account for the said books, 
documents and papers to the Corporation, and 
shall deliver them to the Corporation or to such 
person as the Corporation may direct. 


(4) In particular, all the assets of an insurer appertaining 
to life insurance business held in deposit by the Reserve Bank 
of India under the Insurance Act or by trustees in truat shall 
he delivered to the Corporation. 


(3) Without prejudice to the other provisions contained 
in this section, it shall be lawful for the Corporation to. take 
all nevessary steps for securing possession of all properties 
which have been transferred to and vested in it under this 


Act. | 


14, The Corporation may, having regard to the financial 
condition on the appointed day of any insurer whose con- 
trolled business has been transferred to and vested in the 
Jorporation, reduce the amounts of insurance under contracts 
of life insurance entered into by such insurer before the 19th 
day of January, 1956, in such manner and subject to such 
conditions as it thinks fit: 


Provided that no such reduction shall be made except in 
accordance with a scheme prepared by the Corporation in this 
behalf and aproved hy the Central Government. | 


15. (1) Where an insurer whose controlled business has 
been transferred to and vested in the Corporation under this 
Act, has, at any time within five years before the 19th day 
of January, 1956,— ۱ 


(৫) made any payment to any person without considera- 
tion ; 


245 


Duty to 
deliver 
possession 
of property 
and 


documents 
relating 
thereto, 


Power of 
Corpora- 
tion to 
modify 
contracts 
of life 
insurance 
in certain 
Cases, 


Right of 
Corpora- 
tion to seek 
relief in 
respect of 
certain 
transac- 
tions of 

the insurer, 


246 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Parr V 


(6) sold or disposed of any property of the insurer 
without consideration or for un inadequate consi- 
deration ; | 

(০) acquired any property or rights for an excessive con- 
wideraion; 

(1) entered into or varied any agreement so as to require 


un excessive consideration to be paid or given by 
the insurer; 


(6). entered into any other transaction of such an onerous 
nature as to cause a loss to, or impose a hahbility 
on, the insurer expeeding any benetit accruing to 

_ the. insurer; 
(11:11 a composite insurer, transferred any property 
from his life department to his general depart- 
ment without consideration or for an inadequate 
consideration ; : 


variaton thereof or. other transaction or transfer was not 
reasonably necessary for the purpose of the controlled business 
01 the insurer or was made with an unreasonable lack of pru- 
dence on ‘the part of the insurer, regard being had in either 
case to the circumstances at the time, the Corporation may 
apply for relief to the Tribunal in respect of such transac- 
tion, and all parties to the transaction shall, unless the Tri- 
bunal otherwise directs, be made parties to the application. 


sand the سوہ‎ 918) disposal, acquisition, agreement or 


(2) The Tribunal may make such order against any of the 
parties to the application as # thinks just having regard to 
the extent to which those parties were respectively responsible 
for the transaction or benefited from it and all the circums- 
tances of the case. 


* (3) Where an application is made to the Tribunal under 

this section in respect of any transaction and the application 

is determined in favour of the Corporation, the Tribunal shall 
. have exclusive jurisdiction to determine any claims out- 
۔‎ standing in respect of the transaction. 


নল 16. (1) Where the controlled business of an insurer has 
00897 86, been transferred to and vested in the Corporation under this 

quisition of 7 3 ۱ 72 

controlled Act,’*compensation shall be given by the Corporation to that 
business. insurer in accordance with the principles contained in the 


First Schedule. 


(2) The amount of the compensation to be given in accord- 
ance with the aforesaid principles shall be determined by the 
Corporation in the first instance, and if the amount so deter- 
mined is approved by the Central Government it shall be 
offered to the insurer in full satisfaction of the compensation 
payable to him under this Act, and if, on the other hand, 
the amount so offered is not acceptable to the insurer he may 
within such time as may be prescribed for the purpose have 
the matter referred to the Tribunal for decision. 


Constitu- 17, (1) The Central Government may for the purposes 
7 of te of this Act constitute one or more Tribunals and each of the 
25:55 Tribunals shall consist of three members appointed by the, 


Part V) 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 247 


5 of 1908. 


নিউজ 


Central Government one of whom shall be a person: who 1 19, 
or has been, a Judge of a High Court or has been a Judge 
of the Supreme Court, and he shall be the Chairman thereof. 


4 
(2) A Tribunal may choose one or more persons possessing 
special] knowledge of any matter relating to any cose under 
inquiry to assist the Tribunal in determining any question 
which has to be decided by it under this Act. 


(3) Every Tribunal shall have the powers of a civil court. 
while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, 
in respect of the following matters :— 


(0) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any 
person and examining htm on oath; 


(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents ; 
(৫) recetving evidence on affidavits ; 


(৫) issuing commissions for the. +۸00 of witnesses 
or documents, 


(4) Every Tribunal shall have power to regulate its own 
procedure and decide all matters within its competence, and 
may review any of its decisions in the event of there being 


a mistake on the face of the record or correct any: arithmetical 
or clerical error therein.. 


CHAPTER V 
MANAGEMENT 


18. (1) The central office of the Corporation shall be at Offices, 
such place as the Central Government may, by notification Branches. 
in the Official Gazette, specify. ۱ arid 


agencies, 
(2) The Corporation shall establish a zonal office at ‘each of © . 
the following places, namely, Bombay, Calcutta Delhi, Kanpur 
and Madras, and, subject to the previous approval of the 
Central Government, may establish such other zonal offices 
as it thinks. fit. 


(3) The territorial limits of each zone shall be such as may 
be specified by the Corporation. 


(4) There may he established as many divisional offices 
and branches in each zone as the Zonal Manager thinks fit. 


19, (1) The Corporation may entrust the getieral superin- Committess 
tendence and direction of its affairs and business to an ofthe Cor. 
Executive Committee consisting of not more than fiye of its poration 
members and the Executive Committee may exerctse all 
powers and do all such acts and things as may be delegated 
to it by the Corporation. 


(%) The Corporation may also constitute an Investment 
‘tommittee for the purpose of advising it in matters relating 
to the investment of ita funds, and the Investment Committee 
shall consist of not more than seven members of whom not 
less than three shall be members of the Corporation and the 
remaining members shall be persons (whether members ot 
the Corporation or not) who have special knowledge and ex- 
perience in financial matters, particularly, matters relating 
to investment of funds. 


248 


Managing 
Directors, 


Corpora- 
tion 00 be 


guided by 


the direc- 
tions of 
Central 
Govern- 
ment, 


Zonal 


Managers. 


Staff of 
the Cor- 
poration. 


Funds of 
the Cor- 
poration. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


(3) The Corporation may constitute such other Committees 
aa it may think fit for the purpose of discharging such of its 
functions as may be delegated to them, 

‘ 


20. The Corporaton may appoint one or more persons to 
be the Managing Director or Directors ‘of the Corporation, 
and every Managing Director shall be a whole-time officer of 
the Corporation, a shall exercise such powers and perform 
such duties as may he entrusted or delegated to him by the 
Executive Committee or the Corporation. 


21. In the discharge of its functions under this Act, the 
Corporation shall be guided by such directions in matters of 
policy involving a interest as the Central Government 
may give to it in writing; and if any question arises whether 
n direction relates to a matter of policy involving public 
সিন the decision of the Central Government thereon shall 

e final. | | 


22. (1) The Corporation may entrust the superinten- 
dence and direction of the affairs and business of a zonal office 
to a person, whether a member or not, who shall be known 
us the Zonal Manager and the Zonal Manager shall perform 
all such functions of the Coproration as may be delegated to 
him with respect to the area within the jurisdiction of the 
zonal office. | 


4) The Corporation may constitute for each zone a Board 
consisting of such number of persons as it thinks fit to appoint 
thereto for the purpose of advising the Zonal Manager in res- 
pect of such matters as are referred to it under the regula- 
tions made by the Corporation. | 


(3) The Corporation shall constitute in the পুদপ 


manner for each zonal office an Employees and Agents 
Relations Committee consisting of such number of persons 
as it thinks fit and every such Committee shall consist اہ‎ 
representatives of the Corporation and of its amployees and 
agents, so however, that the number of representatives of the 
employees and agents on the Committee shall not be less than 
the number of representatives of the Corporation and 1 shall 
be the duty of the Committee to advise the Zonal Manager 
on matters which relate to the welfare of the employees and 
agents of the Corporation or which are likely to promote and 
secure amity and good relations between them and_ the 
Corporation. 


23, (1) For the purpose of enabling it to discharge its 
functions under this Act, the Corporation may employ such 
number of persons as it thinks fit. 


0 


(“) very person employed by the Corporation or whose 
services. have been transferred to the Corporation under this 
Act, shall be liable to serve anywhere in India. 


CHAPTER VI 
Finance, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 


24. The Corporation shall have its own fund and all 
receipts of the Corporation shall be credited thereto and all 
payments of the Corporation shall be made therefrom. 


[Part V 


Part V] 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


25. (1) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited 
by auditors duly qualified to act as auditors of companies 
under the law for the time being in force relating to com- 
panies, and the auditors shall be appointed by the Corpora- 
tion with the previous approval of the Central Government 
and shall receive such -remuneration from the Corporation 
as the Central Government may fix. 


(4) Every auditor in the performance of his duties shall 
have at all reasonable tymes access to the books, accounts 
and other documents of the Corporation. 


(3) The auditors shal] submit their report to the Corpora- 
tion and shall also forward a copy of their report to the 
ventral Government. 


26. The Corporation shall, once at least in every two 
years, cause an investigation to be made by actuaries into 
the financial condition of the business of the Corporation, 
including a valuation of the lialbilities of the Corporation, 
and submit the report of the actuaries to the Central 
(tJovernment, 


27. The Corporation shall, as soon as may be, after the 
end of each financial year, prepare and submit to the 
Central Government in such form as may be prescribed a 
report giving an account of its activities during the previous 
financial year, and the report shall also give an account of 
the activities, if any, which are likely to be undertaken by 
the Corporation in the next financial year. 


28. If as a result of any investigation undertaken by 
the Corporation under section 26 any surplus emerges, not 
less than 95 per cent. of such surplus shall be allocated to 
or reserved for the policy-holders of the Corporation and the 
remainder may be utilised for such purposes and in such 
manner as the Central Government may determine. 


29. The Central Government shal] cause the report of 
the auditors under section 25, the report of the 8٤ 
under section 26 and the report giving an account of the 
activities of the Corporation under section 27 to he laid 
before both Houses of Parliament as soon as may be after 
each such report is received by the Central Government. 


CHAPTER VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 


30. Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in 
this Act, on and from the appointed day the Corporation shall 
have the exclusive privilege of carrying on life insurance 
business in India; and on and from the said day any certificate 
of registration under the Insurance Act held by any insurer 
immediately before the said day shall cease to have effect in 
so far as it authorises him to carry on life insurance business 
in India. 


249 


Audit, 


Actuarial 
valuations. 


Annual 
report of 
activities 
of Corpo- 
ration, 


٦ 

Surplus 
how to be 
utilised. 


Reports to 
be laid 
before 
Parlia- 
ment. 


Corpora- 
tion to 
have the 
exclusive 
privilege 
of carrying 
on life 
insurance 
business, 


Exception 
in the cas 
of 
-insurance 
bugmess 
in respect 
of persons 
[৪8101 
۵6م‎ 
India, 


Power of 
Corpora- 
tion to 
have - 
official 
seal in 
certain 
Cases, 


Require- 
ment of 
foreign 
laws to be 
complied 
with in 
certain 
(1589৪, 


Revesting 
of certain 
shares 
vested 

in the 
Adminis- 
trator- 
General. 


Repatria- 
tion of 
aasets and 
liabilities 
in the case 
of foreign 
insurors 7 
certain 
068. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


শু‏ مسب 


سسسمہ نہ ہس 


31, (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 
لاہ‎ or in the Insurance Act, the Central Government may, 
by order, permit any person who has made an application 
in that behalf, 10 carry on 1119 insurance business in India 
in respect of the lives of persons ordinarily resident outside 
India, subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be 
specified in the order and any such order shall be deemed to 
have effect as if it were a certificate of registration issued by 
the Controller to such person under section 3 of the Jusurance 
Act in respect of that class of business. 


(4) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall authorise any person 
permitted to carry on life insurance business of the nature 
referred to in that sub-section, to insure the 1116 of any 
person ordinarily residing outside India, during any period 
of his temporary residence in India. | 


32. The Corporation may, have for use in any zonal office, 
divisional office orn any office outside India an official seal 
which shall be a facsemile of the common seal of the Corpora- 
tion, with the addition on its face of the name of the zonal 
office, divisional office or other office where it is to be used, 
and any such official seal may be affixed:.to any deed or docu- 
ment to which the Corporation is a party. 


33, Where any property or rights appertaining ‘to the 
controlled business of an insurer are transferred to and vested 
11) 0006 Corporation under this A¢t or would 0650 transferred 
und vested but for the fact that such transfer and vesting are 
governed otherwise than by the law of India, the insurer 
shall comply with such directions as may be given to him by 
the Corporation for the purpose of securing that the owner- 
ship of the property or, as the case may be, that the right 1s 
effectively transferred to the Corporation. 


34, Notwithstanding anything contained in the Insu- 
rance Act, all shares which have vested in the Administrator 
(teneral of any State under sub-section (8) of section 6۸ of 
that Act and which have not been disposed of in accordance 
with the provisions of that sub-seetion before the appointed 
day, shall, on payment of the amount of expenditure, if any, 
incurred by the Administrator General in relation to such 
shares by the persons who would have been entitled to those 
shares if the said sub-section had not been enacted, revest 
in such persons. 


35. (1) Any insurer incorporated outside India may, 
before the appointed day, make an application to the Central 
overnment stating that among the assets appertaining to the 
controlled business of the insurer there are assets brought 
into India by the insurer for the purpose of building up his 
life insurance business in India which notwithstanding any- 
thing contained in section 7, should not be transferred to and 
vested in the Corporation. 


(¥) On receipt of an application under sub-section (J), 
the Central Government shall determine the value of the 
assets of the insurer appertaining to his controlled business 
in existence on the “Ist day of December, 1955, computed as 


Part V] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 281 


عہ‌ہ.س.... تی .س-ت_._.-_.-تجت-ص-ہس:ضن ص۳ج _____تتتت..تت .2ن وت .-س._..._._س.سس......ست ...ےسیو سس رج چرچ ت--سیی--جسُجٍجچبومسجحجوحجصٌ٘سحسحبے۔ 


at that date in accordance with the provisions contained in 
paragraph 8 of Part B of the First Schedule, and deduct 
therefrom the total amount of the liabilities of the insurer 
appertaining to his controlled business in existence on the 
9186 day-of December, 1955, computed as at that date in 
accordance with the provisions contained in the Second 
Schedule; and if there is any excess, the Central Government 
may, by order, direct that such assets equivalent in value 
to the excess as may be specified in the order shall not be 
transferred to or vested in the Corporation, or where the order 
is made after the appointed day, that the Corporation shall 
be divested of the said Assets. 


(3). kn the case of any insurer incorporated outside India, 
(he Central Government may also, by order, direct that any 
such liabilities in respect of life insurance policies expressed 
in any foreign currency issued on the lives of persons who 
are not citizens of India as are specified in the order together 
with any such assets necessary to meet the liabilities, as may 
be so specified, shall not be transferred to or vested in the 
Corporation or, if the order is made after the appointed day, 
that the Corporation shall be divested of such {iabilities and 
assets: as aforesaid. : 


(4) The amount of liabilities in respect of the policies 
referred to in an order made under sub-section (3) shall 04. 
computed as at the dist day of December, 190১ 


(9) in any tase where in respéct of the insurer concerned 
an order has been made under sub-section (2), in — 
accordance with the provisions contained in clause 
(b) of the Second Schedule; and 

(6) in any other case, in accordance with method A speei- 
fied in the Second Schedule. 7 


Exrplanation.—In computing the amount of liabilities in 
respect of the policies referred to in this sub-section, allowance 
shall be made for receipts and payments in respect of such 


policies from the 9196 day of December, 1955, up to the date 
of the order. 


(9) Every order made by the Central Government under 
this section shall be carried out by the Corporation in such 
manner as the Central (tovernment may direct. 


36. Notwithstanding anything contained in the In-urence Contracts 
Act or im any other law for the time being in force, every of chief : 
contract appertaining to controlled business subsisting “2۵۸۵۵ an 


: ; : ecial 
immediately before the appointed day,— a to 


(৫) between an insurer and his chief agent or between terminate. 
an insurer and a special agent; or 
(0) between the chief agent of an insurer and a special 
agent ; 
shall, as from the appointed day, cease to have effect and all 
rights accruing to the chief agent or the special agent under 
any such contract shall terminate on that day: 


Provided that in every such case compensation shall be 
given by the Corporation to the chief agent or the special 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


[Part V 


Policies to 
be و‎ 
8 6 
BY Contral 
Govern. 
ment. 


Liquida- 
tion of 
Corpora- 
tion, 


Special 
rovisions 


insurers, 


agent, as the case may be, in accordance with the principles 
contained in the Third Schedule, and the provisions of sub- 


section (4) of section 16 shall, so far as‘ may be, apply in 


every such case. 


37. The sums assured dy all policies issued by the Corpo- 
ration in¢luding any bonuses declared in respect thereof and, 
subject to the provisions contained in section 14 the amounts 
assured by all policies issued by any insurer the liabilities 
under which have vested in the Corporation under this Act, 
and all bonuses declared in reSpect thereof, whether before 
or after the appointed day, shall be guaranteed us to payment 
in cash by the Central Government. 


38. No provision of law relating to the winding up of 
companies or corporations shall apply to the Corporation 
established under this Aet, and the Corporation shall not be 
placed in 11001096101) save by order of the Central Government 
and in such manuer as that Governinent may direct. 


39. Where any insurer being a company (other than a 
composite insurer) whose controlled business has been trans- 
ferred to and vested in the Corporation under this Act has in 


accordance with the provisions of this Act collected und 


distributed any moneys paid to him by the Corporation b 
way of compensation or otherwise and has also complied with 
any direction given to him by the Corporation for the purpose 
of securing that the ownership of any property or any right 
is effectively transferred to the Corporation, the Central 
Government: may on application being made to it in this 
behalf by such insurer grant a certificate to the insurer that 
there is no reason for the continued existence of the insurer 
and where such a certificate has been granted shall cause the 
certificate to be published in the Official Gazette and upon 


_* the publication thereof the insurer shall be dissolved, 


Penalty 
for with. 
holding 


property, 
etc, 


Tribunal ৮ 
to have 
exclusive 
jurisdiction 
in certain 
matters. 


Enforce: 
ment of 
decision of 
Tribunals, 


40. If any person wilfully withholds or fails to deliver 
to the Corporation as required by section 13, any property or 
any books, documents or other papers ‘which may be in his 
possession or unlawfully retains possession of any property of 
an insurer which has been transferred to and vested in the 
Corporation under this Act or wilfully applies any such 
property to purposes other than those expressed in or autho- 
rised by this Act, he shall, on the complaint of the Corpora- 
tion, be punishable with imprisonment which may extend 
to one year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand 
rupees, or with both. 


41 No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain 
or adjudicate upon any matter which a Tribunal 1s empowered 
to decide or determine under this Act. 


42. Any decision of a Tribunal may be enforced in any 
0151] court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the 
person against whom the decision is to be enforced actually 
und voluntarily resides or carries on business or personally 
works for gain or owns any property, as if it were a decree 
passed. by that court. 


Part V 


নিন রর 
ই নাত ee 


চা 


II of 1929, 


] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


43, (1) The following sections of the Insurance Act 
shall, so far as may be, apply to the Corporation as they 
apply to any other msurer, namely :— 

Sections 2, 2B, 3, 18, 26, 38, 38, 39, 41, 45, 46, 47A, 
90, 51, 52, 1100۸, 110B, 1100, 119, 121, 122 and 193. 


(2) The Central Government shall as soon as may be after. 


the commencement of this Act, by notification in the official 
Gazette, direct that the follgwing sections of the Insirance 
Act shall apply to the Corporation subject to such conditions 
and modifications as may be specified in the notification, 
namely :— | 
Sections 2D, 10, 11, 18, 14, 16, 20, 21, 22, 28, 25, 27A, 
28A, 39, 36, 37, 40, 404) 40K, 43, 44, 102 to 106, 
107 to 110, 111) 113, 114 and LIGA. 


(3) The Central Government may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, direct that all or any of the provisions of 
the Insurance Act other than those specified in sub-section (1) 
or sub-section (2), shall apply to the Corporation subject to 
such conditions and modifications as may be specified in the 
notification, 


4) Every notification issued under sub-section (2) or sub- 
section (3) shall be laid for not less than thirty days before 
both Houses of Parliament as soon as possible after it is 
issued, and shall be subject to such modifications as Parlia- 
ment may make during the session in which it is so 1810 or 
the session immediately following. 


(5) Save 08 provided in this section, nothing contained in 
the Insurance Act shall apply to the Corporation. 


44, Nothing contained in this Act shall apply in rela- 
tion to— 


(a) any insurer whose busines is being voluntarily 
wound up or is being wound up under the orders 
of the court; ۱ 


(9) any insurer to whom the Insurance Act does not 
apply by reason of the provisions contained in 
section 2E thereof; 


(c) any composite insurer in respect of the management 
of whose affairs an ۱ Administrator has been 
i under section 562A of the Insurance 

ct; | 


(d) the scheme run by the Central Government known 
as the Post Office Life Insurance Fund; 


(e) any approved superannuation fund as defined in 
clause (a) of section 58N of the Indian Income- 
tax Act, 1922, which is in existence on the 
appointed day; 


(0 any scheme in existence on the appointed day or any 
scheme framed after the appointed day with the 
approval of the Central Government whereby, in 
consideration of certain compulsory deductions 
made by Government from the salaries of ita 
employees as part of the conditions of service, the 


স্পেস] 


253 


Application 
of the 
Insurance 
Act. 


Act not to 
apply in 
certain 
Cases, 


পপি কি পপর বশত, مچودجویوسبوسم‎ 
নি) ।7. . imam 0 


Special 
provisions 
regarding 
certain 
composite 
insurer, 


Defects in 
constitu- 
tion or 
Oorpora- 
tion of 
Commit: 
tees not to 
invalidate 
acts or 
proceedings 
Protection 
of action 
taken 
under Act. 
q 


Power to 
make 
rules. 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


ow 6 es رھ‎ + wae ے‎ . 
= 


৯০০ 


1১957016116 of money is assured by Government on 
the death of the employee concerned or on the 
happening of any contigency dependent on his 
116, 

45. Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (c) 


of section 44, the Administrator appointed to manage the 
affairs of a composite insurer under the Insurance Act shall, 


ag soon as may be practicable after the commencement of this. 


Act, take steps in the prescribed manyer,— 

(a) to. transfer. the assets and liabilities. appertaining to 
the controlled business of the insurer, to the 
Corporation; and : 

(b) to vest the management of the affairs of the insurer 
in respect of any other kind of business, in the 
person entitled thereto. | 


46. No act or proceeding of the Corporation or of any 
Committee of the Corporation shall be called in question on 
the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or defect 
in the constitution of the Corporation or Committee, as the 
case may be. 


47. No suit, prosecution. or other legal proceeding shall 


lie against any member or employee of the Corporation for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done 
under this Act. 


48. (1) The Central Government may, by notification in 
the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out the purposes of 
this Act. | 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality 
01. the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or 
any of the following matters, namely سے‎ 

(a) the term of office and the conditions of service of 
members; 

(b) the manner in which the moneys and other assets 
belonging to any such fund as is referred to in 
section 8 shall be apportioned between the trustees 
of the fund and the Corporation; 

(c) the services which the chief agent should have 
rendered for the purpose of the proviso to 
section 12; 

(d) the jurisdiction of the Tribunals constituted under 
section 17; 

(e) the manner in which, and the persons to whom, any 
compensation under this Act. may. be paid; 

(1) the time within which any matter which may be 

_- referred to a Tribunal for decision under this Act 
may be so referred; 


(g) the manner in which and the conditions subject to 


[Part 


পিন,‏ وم 


2 وج پنچہ‎ a= ~ ০৯০ শরির এ রর ক EEE eer وہ رون‎ বসা A পাপ ০৫ সপ 7 ۰. 
০০৮ 


which investments may be made by the Corpora- - 


tion; 


¥ 


Part إ۲‎ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 21 


ممج مسر ےو روہ یڈہ مس Atel‏ 


(0) the manner in which an Employees and Agents 
Relations Committee may be constituted for each 
zonal office; , 

(i) the form in which the report giving an_ account of 
the activities of the Corporation shall 196 pre- 
pared: 

(3) the conditions subject to which the Corporation may 
appoint employees ; 

{k) the fees payable under this Act and the manner in 
which they are to be collected; 


(1) any other matter which has to be or may be 
prescribed. 


(3) All rules made uattder this section shall be laid for not 
less than thirty days before both Houses of Parliament as 
soon as possible after they are made, and shall be subject to 
such modifications as Parliament may make during the 
session In which they are so laid or the session immediately 
following. 


49, (1) The UCorporation may, with the previous Power to 
upproval of the Central Government, by notification in the make regu- 
Gazette إں‎ India, make regulations not inconsistent with this [tions 
Act and the rules made thereunder to provide for all matters 
for which provision is expedient for the purpose of giving 
effect to the provisions of this Act. 


@) In particular, and without (0.0 to the generality 
of the foregoing power, such regulations may provide for— 


(a) the powers and functions of the Corporation which 
may be delegated to the Zonal Managers; 


(b) the method of recruitment of employees and agents 
of the Corporation and the terms and conditions 
of service of such employees or agents; 


(৫) the number, term of office and conditions of service 
of members of Boards constituted under sec- 
tion 22; 


(d) the territorial limits of each zone established under 
this Act and the business to be transacted in each 
zone; 


(e) the manner in which the Fund of the Corporation 
shall be maintained ; 


(f) the maintenance of separate funds and accounts at 
each of the zonal offices; 


(8) the jurisdiction of each divisional office and the 
establishment of Councils representative of policy- 
holders in each area served by a দিসি office 
for the purpose of advising the divisional office in 
respect of any matter which may be referred to it; 


(h) the conduct of business at meetings of the Corpora- 
tion; 
(i) the formation of Committees of the Corporation and 
the delegation of powers and functions of the Cor- 
oration to such Committees, and the conduct of 
usiness at meetings of such Committees: 


266 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


(1) the form and manner in which policies may be issued 
and contracts binding on the Corporation may be 
executed ; 


(k) the classification Sf policies, whether issued by the 
Corporation or by any insurer whose controlled 
business has been transferred to and vested in 
the Corporation, for the purpose of declaring 
differential bonuses, wherever necessary ; 


(0) the manner in which and the intervals within which 
the accounts of the various zonal offices, divisional 
offices and branch offices may be inspected and 
their accounts audited; 


(m) the conditions subject to which any payment may 
be made by the Corporation. 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
(See section 16) 
PRINCIPLES FOR DETERMINING COMPENSATION 
۲۸2" A 


The compensation to be given by the Corporation to an 
insurer having a share capital on which dividend or bonus 
is payable, who has allocated as bonus to policy-holders the 
whole or any part of the surplus as disclosed in the abstracts 
oy a in accordance with Part II of the Fourth Schedule 


‘to the Insurance Act in respect of the last actuarial investiga- 


tion yelating to his controlled business as at a date earlier 
than the Ist day of January, 1955, shall be computed in 
accordance with the provisions contained in paragraph 1 or 
paragraph 2, whichever is more advantageous to the insurer. 


Paragraph 1.—Twenty times the annual average of the 
share of the surplus allocated to share-holders as disclosed in 
the abstracts aforesaid in respect of the relevant actuarial 
investigations multiplied by a figure which represents the 
proportion that the average business in force during the calen- 
dar years 1950 to 1955 bears to the average business in force 
during the calendar years comprised in the period between 
the date as at which the actuarial investigation immediately 
preceding the earliest of the relevant actuarial investigations 
was. made and the date as at which the last of such investiga- 
tions was made. 


Paragraph 2.—Half the amount payable under para- 


graph 1 plus the paid-up capital or assets equivalent thereto, 


or, in the case of a composite insurer, that part of the paid- 
up capital or assets equivalent thereto which has or have 
been transferred to and vested in the Corporation under this 
Act less the amount, if any, of expenses or losses or both 
capitalised by the insurer for the purposes of Form A in the 
First Schedule to the Insurance Act. 


[Part V 


Parr V] THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90, 1956 257 


Keplaunation 1.—For the purposes of paragraph 1,— 
(a) ‘relevant actuarial investigations’? means such mini- 
mum number of latest actuarial investigations as 
at dates earlier than the Ist day of January, 1955 
(not being less than two in any case), as would 
leave the period intervening between the date as 
at which the actuarial investigation immediately 
preceding the first of such investigations was made 
and the date as at which the last of such investi- 
gations was made, to be not less than four years; 


(b) ‘‘average business in force’? means the average of 
total sums assured by the insurer (including any 
bonus) in respect of his controlled business as on 
the 9181 day of December of each of the relevant 
calendar years. 


Explanation 2.—For the purposes of paragraph 1, where 
an insurer has allocated to share-holders more than 0 per 
cent. of any such surplus as 18 referred to therein, the 
insurer shall be deemed to have allocated only 0 per cent. 
of the surplus and where an insurer has not allocated any 
such surplus to share-holders or has allocated to share- 
holders less than 34 per cent. of any such surplus, the insurer 
shall be deemed to have allocated 34 per cent. of the surplus. 


Explanation 3.—In the case of any insurer incorporated 
outside India, the annual average of the share of the surplus 
allocated to share-holders for the purposes of paragraph 1 
shall be deemed to be the annual average of the surplus as 
disclosed in the abstracts prepared in accordance with Part 1 
of the Fourth Schedule to the Insurance Act in respect of 
the relevant actuarial investigations multiplied by a figure 
which is the average of the two figures mentioned below : سس‎ 


(1) a figure representing the proportion which the share 
allocated to share-holders out of the surplus in 
respect of the world business of the insurer (such 
share being computed subject to the provisions of 
Explanation 2) bears to the whole of such surplus 
as ascertained with reference to the last actuanal 
investigation relating to such business as at a 
date earlier than the Ist day of January, 1955; 
and 

(11) a figure representing the proportion which the share 
allocated to share-holders out of the surplus in 
respect of the world business of the insurer (such 
share being computed subject to the provisions of 
Erplanation 2) bears to the whole of such surplus 
as ascertained with reference to the actuarial 
investigation relating to such business immediate- 
ly preceding the actuarial investigation referred 
to in clause (i): 


Provided that in the case of any such insurer in respect 
of whom an order has been made under section 35 the 
amount ‘computed as follows shall be deemed to be the 
annual average of the surplus:— 


(a) there shall be deducted from the annual average of 
the surplus, interest at 34 per cent. per annum 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 [Part V 
পরা পা পা 


tor one year calculated on the assets specified in 
any order made under sub-section (2) of 
section 3); 


(b) with respect to the balance arrived at under 
clause (a), there shall be computed an amount 
that bears the same proportion to the said balance 
as the liability on sie ae appertaining to the 
controlled business of the insurer, other than 
those expressed in any foreign currency issued on 
the lives of persons who are not citizens of India, 
bears to the liability in respect of all policies 
appertaining to such business, the liabilities on 
a being computed as at the 31st day of 

December, 1955, in acoordance with the provi- 

sions contained in clause (b) of the Second 

Schedule: 


Provided further that— 


(a) In any case where the order made under section 35 18 
with reference to sub-section (2) only, the preced- 
ing proviso shall have effect as if clause (b) had 
been omitted therefrom; and | 


(0) in any case where the order made under section 35 ‘8 
with reference to sub-section (3) only, the preced- 
ing proviso shall have effect as 1177 


(1) clause (8) had been omitted ; 


(11) in clause (b), the words, brackets and letter ‘with 
respect to the. balance arrived at under 
clause (a)’? had been omitted; for the words 
‘the said balance’ the words ‘‘annual average 
of the surplus’? had been substituted; and for 
the words, brackets and letter ‘‘with the provi- 
sions contained in clause (b) of’’, the words 
and letter “‘with method A specified in’ had 
been substituted. | 


Explanation 4,—Where an insurer is an insurer incor- 
porated outside India whose paid-up capital is outside 
India— * 


(a) the سا‎ contained in paragraph 1 shall have 
effect as 11 the words ‘‘less a sum equal to that part 
of the paid-up capital of the insurer as may be 
determined by the Central (tovernment to be 
allocable to the controlled business of the insurer”’ 
were inserted at the end of that paragraph; and 


(b) the provisions contained in paragraph 2 shall have 
effect as 1f,— 


(1) the words ‘‘without making the deduction referred 
to in clause (a) of Explanation 4’ had been 
inserted after the words “half the amount 
payable under paragraph 1’’; and * 

(11) the words beginning with “plus the paid-up capi- 
tal” and ending with ‘in the First Schedule 
to the Insurance Act’’ had been omitted. 


Pant ¥ 


THE CALCU 


শসা nema =e سے ےد‎ 


Part B 


The compensation to be given by the Corporation to an 
insurer having a share capital on which dividend or bonus is 
payuble who has not made any such allocation as is referred 
to in Part A in respect of the last actuarial investigation as 
at a date eurlier than the Ist day of January, 1966, shall be 
an amount equal to the value of the assets of the insurer 
appertaining to bis controlled business in existence, on the 
19th day of January, 1956, computed as at that date in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 8 less the amount 
of labilities of the insurer appertaining to such business in 
existence on the 19th 09501 January, 1956, computed as at 
that date in aceordance with the provisions of paragraph 4. 


_ Paragraph 3.—(a) The market value of any land or build- 
ings, | 

(b) ‘The market value of any shares, securities or other 
investments held by the insurer. ۱ 


(c) ‘The total amount of the 10760010195 paid by the insurer 
in respect of all leasehold properties reduced in the case of 
gach such premium by an amount which bears to such pre- 
mium the same proportion as the expired term of the lease 
in respect of which such premium shall have been paid bears 
to the total term of the lease. 


(1) The amount of debts due to the insurer, whether 
secured or 0118800760১ to the extent to which they are reason- 
ably considered to be recoverable. 


(e) The amount of চারা which have fallen due to the 
insurer on policies of life insurance but have not been paid 
and the days of grace for payment of which have not expired. 


(0) The amount of cash held by the insurer whether in 
deposit with a bank or otherwise, 


(g) ‘he value of all tangible assets other than those fall- 
ing within any of the preceding clauses. 


Paragraph 4.—(a) The total amount of liabilities of the 
insurer to holders of policies in respect of his controlled 
business on account of matured: claims on which payment has 
to be made. 

tb) The total amount of liabilities of the insurer. to 
halders of policies in respeet. of. his controlled business which 
have not matured for payment, the liabilities in respect there- 
of being calculated on the following actuarial bases سے‎ 


(1) in respect of whole-life assurances and endowment 
assurances, the mortality table to be used shall be 
the Oriental (26-35) ultimate mortality table, and 
an interest rate of 34 per cent. per annum shall be 
assumed and for expenses 20 per cent. of office 
premiums in the case of with-profit policies and 

, 15-per cent. of office premiums in the case of non- 
profit policies shall be reserved ; 


(11) in reapect of other policies such actuarial bases 
determined by the actuary making the valuation as 
may be consistent with the basis specified in 
clause (1); and 


TTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1966 


Asseta. 


Liabilities, 


260 


THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 380, 1956 


(Parr ঘা 


০০৩ ৯১ ٦ 


(011) in determining the liabilities of insurers under 
clause (b) the actuary shall make all the usual 
provisions and’ reserves as are ordinarily done in 
such cases. 


(c) The totul amount of all other liabilities of the insurer. 


Kaplangtion.—For the purposes of this Part, in the cuse of 
an insurer incorporated outside India in respect of whom an 
order under section 35 has been made, the assets or the assets 
and liabilities, as the case may be, specified in the order shall 
be excluded. | 

Paragraph 5,—If the-insurer to whom compensation 28 to 
be given under this Part 1s a displaced insurer, the compensa- 
tion to be given shall be computed in accordance with the 
following provisions:s- = 


Firstly, there shall be ascertained the losses incurred by 


the displaced insyrer. in respect of claims arising by deaths 


established by the displaced insurer to have been caused by 
the civil disturbances which took place on the occasion 01 the 
setting up of the Dominions of India and Pakistan, the total 
loss being taken as the difference between the amounts paid as 
claims in respect of such deaths and the total amount of the 
actuarial reserve in respect of the relevant policies; 


Secondly, there shall be ascertained the difference between 


the market value as at the 15th day of August, 1947, of any 


immovable property in West Pakistan belonging to the dis- 
placed insurer and the market value thereof determined under 


‘Paragreph. 3 of this part, or, where any such immovable pro- 


perty has been sold before the 19th day of January, 1956, the 
difference between the market value thereof as at the 18) day 
of August, 1947, and the sale price; 


Thirdly, there shall be ascertained the amount of deposits 
held by the displaced insurer in banks which could not be 
withdrawn on account of a moratorium declared under any law 
for the time being in force, to the extent to which such deposits 
have become losses; 


Fourthly, there shall be ascertained the difference between 
the market value as at the 15th day of August, 1947, of any 
shares in any company now carrying on business in West 
Pakistan held by the displaced insurer and which had been 
acquired betore the 1011) day of August, 1947, and the market 
value of such shares as at the 19th day of January, 1956. 


The amount of compensation to be given to the displaced 
insurer under this Part shall be— 


(a) the amount which would have to be given to him if 
this /’aragraph had not been enacted, plus 


(b) an amount which represents one-half of the difference 
between the compensation which would have to be 
viven to him if to the value of the assets referred 
to in Paragraph 3 there had been added the sum 
of the four items referred to in this Paragraph and 


Parr إ۱‎ THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


with respect to the liabilities referred to in Para- 

raply 4, the life insurance fund had been increased 
tie a like sum, and the compensation which would 
have to be given to him if this ’aragraph had not 
been enacted 

* or 

one-half of the paid-up capital of the displaced 

insurer ইরা 18 less. 


Explanation. —For the purposes of this Paragraph “‘dis- 
placed insurer’’ means an insurance company whose registered 
office during any part of the year 1947 was in any area now 
forming part of Went. Pakistan and whose register office is 
now in India. 


Part C 


The compensation to be given by the Corporation to an 
insurer— 


(a) having no share capital ; or 


(b) having a share capital on which a dividend or bonus 
is not payable; 


shall be in the form of an addition at the rate of rupee one 
per thousand in respect of the sum assured (excluding bonuses) 
under each with-profit policy, and in the case of an insurer 
falling under clause (b), a compensation shall also include 


a sum রা to ve paid-up capital of the insurer to be 
paid to him 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
(See section 35) 


PRINCIPLES FOR DETERMINING THE VALUE OF LIABILITIES IN CERTAIN 
08 


The 6018] amount of the habilities of an insurer incorporated outside 
11018 for the purposes of sub-section (2) of section 35 shall be the sum 
of the amounts computed in 20007081066 with the following provisions :-— 


(a) the total amount of liab tities of the insurer to holders of policies 
in respect of his comrolled business on account of matured 
claims on which pay ment has to be made; 


(b) the total amount of lirbilities of the insurer to holdera of policies 
in respect of his 0৫101701190 business which have + not matured 
for payment, the liabilities in respect thereof being the 
liabilities calculated in accordance with method B below or 
the mean of the liabilities calculated in accordance with method 
A and method B below, whichever is greater. 


Method A,—Actuarial liability calculated on the same bases as 
adopted by the insurer at the last actuarial investigation as 
at a date earlier than the Ist day of January, 1955. 


262 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 = [Parr ا‎ 


Method B.—Actuarial liability calculated on the method known 
as the modified net premium method of valuation, the morta- 
lity tubel to be aes ebeing the Oriental (25-35) ultimate 
mortality table, an interest rate of 28 per cent. per annmn 
being assumed and the allowance for first year expenses 
না, Rs. 40 per thousand rupees of the sum assured by the 
policy. 


Kaplanation 1.—Before 88081698106 the lability under method A 
and method B, there shall .be added to each with-profit policy 
in force on the 31st day of December, 1955 (unless such 
addition has already been made) bonus at the same rate as 
declared at the said last actuarial investigation in  reapect 
of each year or part of a year the policy had been با‎ force 
since the date as at which the said last actuarial investiga- 
tion was ٥۰ 


Explanation 2.—In calculating the habilities in’ accordance 55111 
method A or method B,— 

(i) m respect of policies other than whole-life assurance and 
endowment assurance, such actuarial basis determined by 
the actuary making the valuation as may be consistent with 
the basis specified in the method shall be employed; ane 


(11) the actuary shall make all the usual provisions and 
reserves as are ordinarily done in such cases; 


(c) the total amount of all other liabilities of the insurer. 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
(See section 36) 
PRINCIPLES FOR DETERMINING COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO CHIEF AGENTS 


The compensation payable to a chief agent shall consist of seventy 
five per cent, of the a commission specified in the contract 
ee chief agency with the insurer on the renewal premiums received 
by the Corporation during a period of ten years from the appointed day 
in respect of the business procured by the chief ugent before the 
appointed day; and such compensation shall be determined and paid 
annually for the said period. | 


PRINCIPLES FOR DETERMINING COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO SPECIAL AGENTS ° 


The compensation payable to a special agent shall consist of one- 
eighth of hia annual average earnings during the period beginning on 
the Ist day of January, 1952, and ending on the ۸18+ day of December. 
1955, in the form of overriding commissions in respect of business procured 
by him through insurance agents. | 


Y. BHANDARKAR, Secy.‏ .ط 


Registered No. C207 No. 35 of 1956 


Gryzrtte 


THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, i956 


CONTENTS: 


Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Pages. 
Bengal for the week ending the 16th 
August 1956 ee ee §625—526 


Wholesale Market prices of Agricultural 
and Animal Husbandry Products (average 
quality) mn Districts during the month of 
November 1955 on 7 ৪৬ 021-7 


Calcutta Improvement Trust—Notification .. 578 


SUPPLEMENT _ Dfficial Papers 
Weekly Weather and Crop Report of West Bengal 


Subdivisional reports on the condition of weather, crops, etc., 101 the week ending the 16th August 6. 


Summary.—During the weok undor report there was rainfall in thirty-two subdivisions. The weather conditions were 00 
in thirteen subdivisions. صماجرەصمہ']'‎ ٤51ہ‎ of Aman continued in some subdivigitns. 


The condition of the standing crop was on the whole fair. The fodder was reported to be insufficient in cighteen subdivisions 
cattle-disease was roported from five subdivisions. 


The wages of the labourer variod from rupee one to rupees two and annas eight during the week under report, 


۹ 


Total The minimum 
۱ rainfall price of coarse Character of Stage 81003008৩88 of Scarcity oft roapects of Fodder Cattle. Labour wages 
Districts and during rice in seers per weatherandite agricultural opera~ seed, ifany. ‘Mhestanding condition, disease, without food, 
subdivisions. the rupee, effect on the 6٥۰ crops 
Week, Grn standing crops. (estimated 
This Previous outturn). 
weeks weook. 
1 2 808) 8৫৪) 4 5 ٥ ۲ 8 0 10 
24-Parganas, 7 
Badar ৪৪ eu 1 15/16 2 رو یہی‎ ৬৩৪৪ ৬৬ ٠ٛ ঙ رف‎ চা 
Diainond Harbour... 2 2 ৯৩৯ کٹ‎ os on و‎ নটি 
13808010000 ১১ 552 2 Fair ۲ Plantation Scarce . Fair .. Insufficient Noreport ,. 8৪. 2, 
atarted. 
Barasct ৮ .. 2°88 2 2 Favourable .. 07 3 Sufficient .. Notgood .. Ditto .. Reported .. Rs. 1-12, high. 
u couti- 
1116. 
Basirhat Re 1:50 2 2 Ditto .. Transplantation Ditto... “a Fair .» Noreport .. Bs. 1-8. 
continued. 
Bongaon 7 1:10 115/16 2 Ditto 7 Ditto <a Ditto .. Falr »» Insufficiont Ditto .. Ra. 2, high. 
Nadia. 
Sadar 7 2-20 118/16 118/16 Favourable .. Aus and jute Sufficient .. ee Sufficient .. Noreport .. Ra. 1-12, normal, 
harvesting 
continued. 
Ranaghat by 1°88 114/16 6 Ditto -۰ চাপা Ditto .. Fair .« Insufficient Ditto .. Ra. 1-4 
operation 
completed. 
১, M rabidabad. 
Sadar 7 2:42 114/16 114/16 Unfavourable veils Scarce .» Notgood ., Normal aa Noreport .. Ra. 1-12. 
18 - 0:27 115/16 86 Ditto .. Aman trans- Noscarcity Fair .. Sufficient ., Ditto .. Bs. 1-4, normal. 
٠ plantation 
stopped. 
Kandi cs 1:30 22/16 22/16 Ditto . Transplantation ‘Ha an Insufficient Ditto .. Ra. led. 
hainpored due 
to rain. 
Jangipur ৮৬ 91209 114/16 1138/16 Ditto 8% سے‎ of No scarcity Fair ےم‎ Normal ہے‎ Ditto ১২ Ra. 1+ 
Aus and jute ‘ 
۱ started, 
Burdwan. 
Sadar ee 8-05 114/16 116/16 Favourable .. 072৮7 No scarolty ‘a ॥ Insufficient Noroport .. Rs. 1-12, normal. 
0 wan 
continued. 
asansol ve 88/8 80 চর রি ই 4 এ ৪ ce 
Katwa a *60 115/16 115/16 Untavourable Ploughing for Noaocarcity Fair .. Ineufficient Noreport .. Ra. 1-10, 
Aman ham- 
pored, ৬ 
Kalna 7 0۰88 114/16 2 Ditto .. Aman trans- Ditto... Do. = Ditto... Ditto .. Rs, 2. 
plantation 


continued, 


526 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 6 


LEIA ৩. REE AEBS مس‎ bal 
یھ نے محصر‎ 


Total The minimam 


rainfall oe of coarse Character of Stage and peeves of Scarcity of Prospects of Fodder Cattle. Labour wages 
Diatricte and during rice in seers per weathcrandite agriculturo) opera- seed, ifany. 6 দশ condition. disease. without food. 
subdivisions. the rupee. effect on the tions. ۴ 
week, eee standing crops. (eatimated 
This Previous outtarn). 
week. “week. 
r 2 Se), 3d) 4 5 6 ? 8 9 10 
Birbhum, . 
Sadar .. 0°66 116/16 115/16 Unfavourable 000008 Nov scarcity ٠ insufficient Heported . Rs, 1-8, normal. 
it due to ٦ 
۱ سد‎ rain, 
Rampurhat ., 8:40 114/16 25116110169 ৩, سا‎ an say Ditto .. Fair -- Ditto... ا‎ Ra. 1-10, 
progressing. یک‎ 
Bankura. 
Sadar ae ہہ‎ 21/16 Favourable .. Transplantation Noscarcity Fair .. Sufficient .. Noreport .. 10 
progressing. 
Vishnupur a 1:40 2 2 Unfavonurable ا‎ Ditto... Do. oe Ditto ০, Ditto .. Rs. 1-4, 
continued. 
Midnapur. 
Sadar (North) .. 7 21/16 21/16 Te مت‎ ae 7 7 ey 2 
Badar (South) .. ٠ 2 2 6 কর بت و‎ es + 7 ৪ লি 
CGontal és 1:28 116/16 114/16 Scasonable.. ++ 7 -7 Insufficient Reported eae 
Tamluk ~ £61 2 2 Favourable .. টানা سے‎ 7 Pa Ditto .. Ditto .. Re. 1-12, high. 
continued. 
Ghatal مل‎ "0۱75 2116 686 Ditto. پی سر ںی سے‎ Nosearcity Fair Fair »» Noreport .. Ra. 1-8, 
completed. é 
Jhargram 7 ws 21/16 21/16 pene sass ve 7 4 ۰ ee 
Hooghly. 
Sadar me O'91 112/16 6 Favourable” 7 Amen مھا‎ No soarcity Fair .. Insufficient Noreport .. Re, 1-10. 
continued. 
‘gerampur wa 8:17 112/16 112/16 Notsatisfactory Ditto os Ditto .. Good ix Ditto... Ditto .. Re. 1-12. 
tbayl: 1:16 2 2 Favourabiée* ৭, Ditto 2 Ditto .. Fair .» Not satis- Ditto 256 
ہے‎ factory. 
Chandernagore. . 7 118/16 112/16 0 6 Ditto ক Ditto... Do. .. Fair 7 Ditto .. Re. 1-12. 
Howrah, ۲ 
Sadar ۰ on 115/16 116/16 sens wa i 7 ie ন্‌ nae 
Uluberla ae as 115/16 115/16 eee er ee ve 7 7 দই 
38718818811. 7 
Sadar ৪. = 8:07 118/16 112/16 Hot 4 Bown of ae 7 ne “a Noreport ,. غفظ‎ 2, normal. 
nued, 
Alipurduar.. ৬ 118/16 114/16 ৮০৪ Pree es 7 as a ۰. 
Darjeeling. = 
Sadar .. Moder- 110/16 110/16 Cloudy .. Sowing of Aman No acarcity Falr .. air .. Noreport§ .. Ba, 2. 
ate. seeds contl- 
000৫, 
Kurseong 7۰ 5°20 112/16 112/16 Fair .. Harvesting of Ditto - Do. . Sufficient .. Ditto 97 
vegetables 
- continued. 
Stiguri 7 1۰91 115/16 115/16 Unfavourable Aman trans Ditto... Do. »- Insufficient Ditto .. Ra. 2» 
plantation 
continued. 
Kalimpong =. 1:30 118/16 114/16 Favourable .. Transhisntetion Ditto. Do. .. Sufficient . Ditto .. Ka. y. 
begun. 
Malda es 8-80 114/16 114/16 Favourable .. 0غ‎ ০ No scarcity Fair .. Insufficient Noreport .. Rs, 1+4 
وت‎ brisk. 
West Dinalpur. | ০১৪ 
Sadar ee 430 N.R. 114/16 Dry .. Harvesting of No ۶ Fair . Usual .. Reported .. Ra. 1-10. 
Aus started. 
Raigun) ٠ 1:00 N.R, 114/16 A وس یں‎ Ditto. Do. . Sufficient .. Noreport .. Rs. &. 
continued. 
Oooch Behar, 
Radar o =o» کر : 7 7 کی کے ہے 8[ا ق112‎ 
Dinhata i 2:80 114/16 114/16 Favourable .. ভি saa No scafeity Fair .. Buffictont .. No ater .. Re, 1-12, 
continued. 
Mathabhanga .. , 118/16 114/16 Ditto 2 Ditto ~ Ditto ., Do. oy 7 - Rs. 2-8, 
11016118151) ٠ 7 115/16 86 Ditto ee Ditto 1 Ditto... No. .. Bufficient .. Noreport .. Res. 1-12, 
Tufanganj 7 ۰ 114/16 114/16 ا٢٤٥‎ Ditto es 11৮00 ১, Do. .. Insufficient Ditto .. Bes. نظ‎ 
: N.B.—No report. 
: S. N. MUKHERJEE, 


Calcutta, the 23rd August 1956. for Director of Agriculture, West Bengal: 


57152110110 TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 527 
০১22 


Wolesale Market Prices of Agricultural and 
Anima Husbanery Products (average quality) 


an districts during the month of November 1955 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALSUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1056 


528 


do es eq | ৫ ww ey ی۔‎ ৩ ey 


a1 8 
1 ৪7 
r 6 


ا لا رخ 


be 9 98 9 
6 we af, 9 OF 19 
i 16 6 7 10 
9৪6 je26u ৯৫ 
31 
9 0 09 ع8 9 ۶إ‎ ٥ 
0ড% ৫ 1হ ৪9 1:09 
; | 
09 ৪ ot 15 6 6 :9 
| / 
09 99 1090০ ৪ 0 
9 118 0৪. o1 "9 
028 10 ₹ ৪ 19 
o | 
ُ 
| 
| | 
0 1 St ক OTST :9 
03 Ol ক 0 &ু 0 
9 If SI ۶ 0৪7 io 
৪ ৪ روز و تر‎ 10 
| 
01 0 جع ما‎ 9 
| 
چو يہ ی. ہے۔ 3‘ یق‎ 
"$61 
FSQMIBAC NT ১.০: و‎  . 
jO 98394 % হন yey چڑ0 :۲ء‎ 
হর | 
“2961 4equieaoy 


oOo ৩০ © ৩০ ہت‎ ৩০ © 
می‎ ৩ © © (১ ৩১ ক 
nN 
سم‎ 


0 ۲ ٤ 


0 F FTI 


o Oo ০১ © 


8 آ9‎ 
۲ت‎ 
۲ 6 
Gl 6 
6 9 OT 


কল্প 


3 


১ ০০০ ০ ০ শু 
او‎ 
ved 


© جج &8 جج ৩০ ৩০৩০‏ بت 


8 oO 
St ZT 
0 61 
ét 6 

0 9 OF 


০১০৩০ ©‏ بت 


‘d 1৪ ‘sy | ‘e ‘sy তু چہ‎ ‘SOF 


oO ০৪ ৩০ শু (৯ © © 
تم‎ GC © 828 ےپ جح یی‎ 
wh 
اسم‎ 


© & تب 


o ہہ‎ ৩ © ৩১ 


6 9 
5وت 
6 ۶ 


8 91 
8 I 
611 
9 OF 
et 0 


শু ৩১ ০১ 0 © 


সে ৩ ০০০৩০০৩০৩০2 
ہہ‎ ৩০ (৩০ — শ ০9০ ০00 
৮ 
কষ 


a 


SS SP রাকা 


™ ক ڑج‎ 
পদ 


رت 
اسم 


~ WW 
oD 


0 6 
8 If 
۶۲ 6 


296 ১২1 "09 ১৮১১ 
—poep ‘Aspnes UO 8009 ৪১৪৬১ GOHIAOO 
۷و0 یز و ق"‎ ۶۹ 


মী 


(৫) $৮4১/৯৪% 
(ও) ndmueg 
(৭) esuesaq 
(d) 1815 
(q) 0871 
(৭) edaesaq 
(এ) 101136 
(d) 11 


008 


‘ANI BUI OTT] JO 90791২ 


رطف سب 


(9৪৪০৩) pefug 


0014006 199৬8 
(9৪০৪) ০1990 


“8917 2৬5 07900 


(78009) 17830 
(eats) pug 
(jyeuIs) mse pg 


sf ee 


+69০%45) ৪০1৩ 


7 রি (০29০০) 3074 


(amped) ০9‏ جج رب 
(9৪3৮০০) Appeg‏ 


(anrpeur) <ppeg‏ ضف 


বট se 


'8129490 


٣۲۳0000‏ وگ“ 


٥ 91559190117‏ بزدہ؟" 


629 


UPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTH, AUGUST 30, 1956 


5 


eo ০০০৮ ৩০ 


৩ of ৩ 


آ0 
0 


os ےت‎ ০০ 8 ০১ 


8 6 


elt 


o tf 
‘SON 
0 92 
¢ ٢آ‎ 
0 ¢ 
oI 9 


© بت 


ow & ي‎ © 


ow ৩০ 


0G 6 
999 


Oo ۲ 
él #1 
8 ৪ 
FI tT 
0 5 


‘SN 
“SN 
"ON 
6 6 
6 61 
yt If 
0 ৭ 
“SN 


0 8 26 


0 ₹ 18 


00 ٢٤ 


3 F 6 
8 & ও 
0 # tft 
98 0 5 
0 ٤ 02 
oO OT tt 
06 প্র 
6 2০ 


sv saozid JONIVUL AVON sezeopay (qa)‏ ری ائن APSPuooy‏ تر 59013 গা yoru as‏ 975 9058[ دےعو- 


merase 


0 
0 


0 06 
0ً 09 


. 0 OT 


0 
0 


oo 8 ০১৩০ ০৯ 


09 6 
06 95 


ot ft 


90 ৩ © © & ® 
~ 
nN 


6 0 6 
0 0 $8 


909 97 


oe) 
১ 
8 


0 9 06 


وو 0 0 


oo ৩০৩০৩ 
® 


9۹1 2/2-88 JO 21818101 PI¥puTis 043 ৪020 ,.“pR,, UN 90, 
00170550655 BIQIBBIN = EN 


"Ajddns oy  -چج-رچ‎ 


re re 2301003 

000°T | °° 25011090 

007 (abpng ০৪০5৭) yefieg 

5৪ ue ৪৪৪০0 

1 7 (d) STV UY 

OOT ہو‎ (q) ۶001 

ie : (q) +866 

(dq) 701186‏ 7لا 

(‘> 

8-۴٤) 

৪85৪৬‏ (ي) ور و یا نین 

‘PRT ~ বে) 9186 

{q) mdmirg‏ . ے30" 

21:75 (d) کو8‎ 

(dq) ۶3153236‏ مد یت 

ae ae (qd) عو‎ 

be 7 (d) 361145186657 

"PH i °° (qa) mdmirg 


2 (05055070588) 289 Zong 
ae ۱ (popeazun) 385 aT 


“86457 


"০. (peBuag جح‎ 5010520৬০০০) 


সক (Asp) ins 


12000 1০০10 

100ر 
৮ {(eduivyo) 7‏ 
چس t+ (qeqgey)‏ -* 


"(ysalg ) 27৮ 


UsIpey 
73+6037 
med 
77ا‎ 7٣۴ 


)1523 سر زین وت 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE ٥۸01 4۸ا1"‎ GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


530 


0 কও 70 0 8°30 হাক چو 0 10 95 00 وت‎ 10 0 G& 10 ০0 ৪৪ “oe 15596 
6 হাঙহ fo % $ 10 یج ]آج‎ ৮ 0909 8 {0 9 হও 109 6 হত 10 0 ₹হ ۶33+٦ 
وید‎ ٤8 * 0 22 0 OL 8 مج 0 0 وو 8 0 و 0 0 سے‎ 0 0 3 019০ یموق‎ ٠٠ زی‎ ৪৪৮৮৫ 
0৪ 0$ 6 ۶ 0 হা 8 مس‎ 00 8 109 0 ৪8 109 0 ےھ‎ 0 0 ৪5 7 ভা 
0 ৪ 9 |0 0 9৪ 10০ 0 یو 0 10 چو 0 109 2 00 ہے چو‎ 109 0 2 al 30290 | 
0 8s ٤8 2 8 و‎ 0 তা 23 سے‎ 0 8 & 0 8 & 0 8 92 0 8 23 PR} "* uovsuog | °° ۹۱ (2০0) ane 
چیجوعد*‎ 
(শ ৪) | ؤ۰‎ 
0 0 থা 6ج یج تج‎ 0 চা چو 0 0 و 0 0 یو 8 0 6و 0 0 — 5و‎ 917 (q) 00621 
۱ (spar 2) 1. 
008s 16 8۲ و‎ হ Lt — 96 61 0 8 ھ٢‎ 0 0 و 0 0 و‎ অত 611৫ ٠ be 48379 <ppeg 
۱ زو ود“‎ 720 
08 4 1₹% 9 ৪৪ |0 0 96 _ 0 0 oot |[o 0 os |0 0 oot | 0 0 oot کروی‎ (a) ereyoqed ٠ ٠ (4৪০ ৪ ২০০৩ 1 30 مرحم‎ aI) جمھ‎ 
۱ ‘ROD چررردپ‎ 
0 ৪ z م'!'‎ 0 2 {0 8 9৪ -- oo ss {os 28 |o 0 28 |o © gs ٭٭×-٭ب٭ح ز(ی) ہی کے‎ 
08 249 :০ 0 এ ۱١ ۶ 9৪ - 0 0 9৪ (09 0 06 10 0 06 10 0 0৪ রি পিছত) | °° 27 چ0‎ 
oF 9 !09 0 88 ٥ ৪ تچ طط‎ 00 08 10 0 06 |0 0 99 [0 0 9 ; (dq) 08016071 
09 ঠা 89 :0 0 2 10 হা 82 جو راہن ۱ 07+ 9£ 9 0 9£ 0 0 08 0 9 8 09 0 وت‎ ** 59555) এছ) 
00.9 .0 0 62 10:09 OF چرج-‎ 0 0 ٥ 0 0 0৪ 0 0 08 258 230100٠ Byes 
و‎ sf ©0 0 8 0 ₹ OB —_ 0 0 0 109 0 4৪ 0 0 ৭৪ 9 ০0 ৭৪ PRI’ Suyauyy | بت ہوا‎ 
| پر+: پا“‎ 
d پی‎ sy ‘d vw sy | "৫ ‘3 ‘ey jd کے بي-‎ id © wa چج. ي.)‎ ssa i-d 9 "গু | ٠ي ج۔‎ wey 0007 
۱ 0085 )01 না 09 
5 “AO ‘ISVIBGAB ১,8১৬ 7 ٦ 
EG tebe: e.qyuou 3-۰۳7 €1থ7000ঘ | FD WRITE ও JO ও তাতে "3100 025800 
: | | 0ر9‎ “Aepingtg uo Bulpua ৪০০৬ 00107০9090 
ہے -- -... وچویوسسہسہبی‎ - . a’ re ۱ | سے ید :+1 ك9“ کت‎ a 
“8961 490 /৬৯০ | ppuci—gy ۷ب‎ 0۹۹ 5 ° “$93914৫ ١۱89910۱0 ۸ی‎ 


81 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


کو 8 0 


تو 9 


"oN 


0 0 92 


0 O 6 
0 8 @t 


5 6 0 
و 0 0 
۲ 8 0 


0 0 6 
0 0 ۹۹6 
0 8 آ٢‎ 


0 0 66 
0 0 8 
0 8 ۲ 


১281 
Vay 
(q) ا٭‎ 77 


DWE 0০7০5 
GOL 0০:7৬ 
مج‎ - 

(9799) 5 


پا 81909651225 * 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30) 1956 


539 


‘d ‘we ‘oq  ۔یؿ پچہ‎ ea “8 ‘sy | ٤ 8 শু | we seq id ও ‘sy ) ٠۹ب‎ we wy ] ٠۹ ٥ or: ae 


9 9 ভা [fo stor 109 £ nm = 00a (0 ৪ جج‎ ,OF TT. 10 0 7 জোর od 1 -" নি ৭) <7 
28و‎ 0 ক 8 0 77৪ — 0 0 6 0 O18 9 0৪ ০ ৪ ৪ টা ond 8 ১. ১1 
০0 ত্য jo36 109 0৪ | — ০০9 ০ ]0 ৪ 6 |09 ৪ ৪ 8إ‎ ৪ 6 হি oid a ne (82) می‎ 
os হা [2s 6 09 9 OT — 0 0 হা |9 O OT [0 হ৪€ 0 8 20 oid بی‎ i (Trews) وعبع‎ 
9 হাতা 70 0 St | oO FEST | = 00 بی‎ 10 8 st 19 8 % 109 8 ٢ ae : 6 7 za روبق‎ 050 
9 & ٢ 9 8 ٢ 0 OT St بت‎ 0৪ ٢ 0৪ ST 09 8 SI 0 I aI ین‎ 017 ৮. عرق‎ Heyy) چرععدد‎ 
9 হা ও 099 Wm |9 9 ج‎ : — 0% SE |G Stet |0 9 IE 19 F . 000 06 রি টি (Irews) এ 
০ & 1 109 9 হয 10 War | — 9 ৪ এয إ٢‎ হাতা |9 Stir |0 7 217 O11 7 ٠ (aq) <0 
0০ টাটা jor uw 19 em | — 0 6 St | O TIT | O SEIT 10 ٣ ‘PA ۱ ٠-٠ ورے عو‎ AID 7৩4৯০] | -- °° (01040) چچمتھ‎ 
چےصچمدہ (ھد‌پمچو)-‎ 

‘SN 0 6 FI | =n 0 + FF [0 9 FF |0 O FE | O 9 OT ہی تشد 9 نت‎ 7 আপ say 
9 কু 9t foro হা jo we | ہے 00 ےس‎ 10 ztet [0০0 ot [0 O a کس‎ ৯ UTTER 
0 ۶۲ 9I 0٢98 ٢ 9 FE OT : — و‎ F ہو‎ 0 ۲ 97 90 LI 9 8 এ ae one mmfurog: ۲٠٠ (গা) (oare09) ৩৩ আচে 
090 ঠা }s ৪ গা joo ot | - 99 st [0 stst {Oo 8 er {0 9 8٢ ier ise ০১০৬০ 

"7109 8 € 10 0 6৫ | a 9 ভাগ্য |0 গা গু |0 হা ছু [0 হা 61 ie جو‎ 7027.5771 7 ey রনির 
9 9 ৪7 |£ ও ۶ی‎ jo 9 oe 1 — 0 হা ৪ |0 0 6 [0 হা 6 إ‎ ٢ 8167 ا‎ ek mfuiog | (reuyeq) (uInypeul) yr پت‎ 
0 6 LI | 90 ক ৪7 OF or | শা و‎ ZI و آ8۲‎ 2৪7 "ON "SN 01158 11111 : 
9 OT 02 "SN 0 0 2 — چم 0 پرچ۔‎ "SN SN Ff 1 mfmog | 0 18৮5718) (eay) 9০7 হে 
9 O16 s9 0 |9 9 0 | — o 9 ot joo ot [os or {0 8 or | Sane qeqrqsseg ٠ (aBury) (983০০) Appeg 
9 ator |%3 stot |o 2 |۲ : — 00 1 |09 0m |09 ₹ Ir ١١۱١۱ ۶ I ند 2 اوت‎ |. 

97 OT 0 0 ۴ 9 tr Or | سے‎ o 3 It 0 8 OT 0 ٥ے‎ 0 0 If & 0ڑ‎ | .. (৪) (1100) Appeg 
0 OF OT 09 £ ٤٤ soe ۴ - 0 oF ٠ "SN ৪ ‘PH | * ویر بای‎ -- (aumy) )٥ەجچ(‎ Appeg 
. | "9109199 
| 
| 


| | 1992 t met 09 | 
¥¢ “AO ى3‎ ৮,2১৩ és! “292 | ৪ 
jo aBereay | sqjuoul yey: Annee | 0 FOIE OY} JO 90০৪1 ০০৫, 


نے سے ووسھویتھ۔ 


۹ : 15007521100 مب این ران مت پر ریز —paep‏ ۱ 
_ | 49088950188 ]896 


2پ 77 : 1 : vie‏ کو جا کیا : : پچ رھ ےد کت سا سو - 


"৪93150 91559198118 


a আস্ত 
a ج۔‎ 


۷ا“ 


633 


© © © © 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST .80, 1956 
لا‎ © & © 


6 8 ۲۴۲ 


NS WH ৮১ ০6২ 
১) 
= 
69 
لس‎ 


6 If 
| ٤۲ 
21 St 
OL 6 
at tt 
তা 9 
8 FI 
et 1 


یت" ০০০৩০‏ بی ي 8 oo‏ 


0০ £ 
۔‎ ৪ 
SI 6 
Zl OL 
tL 


oOo © 82 © © 


Fal 


oOo © ০০৩০৩ 
ت‎ ৫০ ৩ ০০৩০ 
بت‎ © 0০90 + 
بت‎ ৩৮ بج جج ے‎ 


eo Cc 8 CG بج ث یی‎ © 
০ ০৮০ ৩৩০ 8 ০৩০ #€ ০০ 82 8 
ooo ৩১ ৩০ @ & & © 


ہ نے ےہ 
om‏ ہم پچ A ৯‏ 
eo © © © @&‏ 
০‏ ي © © بت 


Oo ھ٢‎ 


Oo ০০ گئئ‎ 07 & 
۔‎ 
es 


oem + & 90‏ 
بن 
نس 


0 নয: 


09 LI 
+ SI 
+ ہو‎ 


SE 2 
at 8 


09 Ot’: 


। 81 
81 


oOo یہ ےی‎ ৭৯ জে 


eo ৩ يْ © © مج‎ © 8 © 


یپ بج 2 Oo‏ 90 
بح 
md‏ 


স্ব © @ @ © # 
fr 
سم‎ 


তা 2 
হু ৪ 
0 Of 
| ٢۲٤ 
O it 


8 تھچ ১‏ تی بت 
® ت on ০০‏ 
اٹ 
اسم 


at @ coe © ক জজ 
খা ৩১ ৩১ M7 ৩ শখ 

سح 

yes 


ot ৪ 
ét 8 
0 ٤ 
| TE 
St £ 


৩. ০৮ © ہہ‎ © 


JeqIVA “Ws 0 


(q) 4, 


(a) قد‎ 

TeZUE ٥,9۷۷۹۶ 

(a) mfaog 
031 

অভ 8,509 


FeimoH‏ وی نیٹ 


(197৪ TFTA) 1008000003 
(Rip) NT 


°° (05238) 0000 
(৫ ٥د‎ ( RAAT 


ক 0187010 0৯৯30 


৮১88, 01602352517 


ات - 


চন oe 2000106 33 کر‎ 


-৪97৭7)92০4 


+s (7009) زا۲۳‎ 
-* رورص‎ EST 
ہد‎ (ems) ও ডা 

(89) 1841 
৮ (8৭) THC 
“+ ০. (815) EAH 
৭ ও (সিন) PHD 


“ (21) msn 
oe (Azeuypro) Fan তথ 


و 


(9 2216) 250 


۰ 


ae (0205) 1555০ 
(519) 176০০ 
٠ - (ঘা) ۴ا9‎ 
se (585) এও 
الین اڈ کو‎ IVS H 


)0078042 30 ( 7005۱10 وہہ و3) 


684 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 106. 


09 89 fo ক FT টি 109 0 FE YO 0 কা 0 ₹ FI 0 
0 9 Jo ater 10 ج٤٢‎ 19 steel 10 হা er 0 হা 0 0 (yea) 039 
শট یع 3{ 6 ع‎ 02 | হ ০৪ 0 0 0 [0 0 @& 0 কু 0 16و0‎ 0 (ঘাস) preyenW 
০9 গা ৪ 10 F ٤ |° 6٢٢٢ | ,0 0 ےو‎ |০ ০ ০৪ 9 ₹ ৪5 کے اح نو دا رق نی‎ (sod) prea, 
3 ৃ 2০০০৪ 250 
: ا‎ 
ا‎ | | 
0 0 7৪ 109 0 &@ 0 0 oF - 0 0 3 10 0 a 0 0 رادان سا دائیں‎ 8৪3৪ 00ھ‎ 
١ : ٠ زەج ود“‎ HDD 
0 8 ق5‎ 6 0 66 6 0 GOI ৪ 0 1 0 90 ٥آ‎ 0 0 (নু) مز ۲ 18“ © 40( :۹٭‎ 2০5 qu) MOH 
| 95 YOR 
I t 
0 0 ৪৪ کر‎ 0 0৪ |0 0 oF | -0 6 0& | 0 9 08 ০ 9 اٹ‎ (০0৭) সানু 
0 0 oF |]0 09 ৪৫ 0-0 গু : 19 0 8 إ٥‎ 0 ৪৪ 0 0 (a) (۲۲ 0۰8 (৯৮০০) WIE 
| 3 ۱ ‘spnposd لاجرو‎ pun ور رد‎ 
ٰ | | 
| ۱ | | 
9004 ] ٢ 8 ا‎ রি 3 "9 © 08 إ٦‎ © o8 0 0 نٹ‎ (ep8eq) 70 
ve os ৪9 |0 ৪ 49 ! 1. سرع‎ প্র 0 ৪ 608 ایت‎ 
03 ££ ۰إ‎ 6 56 10 Hue ؛‎ 10 0 9৪ ]٢ 9০ ৭9 “oe নি শি 
০ ৪ z |0 ores 10 ৪ 9৪ CRN SN Jo ৪ ond res 
0 0 0 ما‎ 0 ₹6 10 ¥ 76 10 ৪ ৪৪ | 6 8 ৪৪ .0 8 ] od nqoy 
os ze {0 0 9 10 8 6 ॥0 0 gs 1:09 0 98 0 8 | J@qTeRE ৪5৪ تو -" | ترمستعو‎ Bey 
! : |. i ৰ ‘Wet 
1. ঃ 
a I. <= | 
পে ہے‎ |-d " oq i'd ৪ vq 0 ‘e ‘ey id ৪ ‘ey jd ৪ d ‘se ‘sy |: ; 
| اس سا ا‎ | a [م٭سىوحےو٭پسےسمجس‎ 
090 18 দয? mo | i 
5 مور 7 38255519883“ مد"‎ 4 ۰ 
yo ۷ 1100ء‎ 571: ۸106 | | : "HUQ 9 وزاہ‎ JO 95৪৮; ۸9100010000 
: ُ: : _ مو ودج‎ 0015 oO Zulpua دی‎ 001%০98100 ۱ ١ 
“0361 49088895018 1719০০10807 *$93140 +19 


موق 


968 


শী 
اس‎ 


اخ 


ETTE, AUGUST 20. 


ee‏ لت ا لے 


(dq) 
| WAFER, Bory y অনি 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZ 


ws L 6 8I 6 0 ঘ্রা 0 0 ٢ 00 ৪ 90 ۲ © 0 ٢۲‏ یی 
F [09 0 #8 = 0 0 % |0 0 কহ |0 0 ক |0 0 Fe | 0000 | (aheqIERH ৪৪৭ ৪3৬০৮ 3891 1579৪‏ 0 و وی ورڈ 
تی ہی سا 
® 
Oo I কর 9 6 62 = 0 3 6 0 0 ০98 0 8 63 0 হা ৪ SK 7000٦ (958385) ০21‏ 8 9 و 
جمند* ° 
7707۴ الات نا ننندر لان £ os‏ اض ৪ 2 og £ os‏ 9 سے ہي GQ ٤.6 ost 9৪‏ 
9০10‏ : 
ا "SPH ٠ ০০০৫ &, Nqequey ০ PIE} VEN‏ وج ৪ হও 0 8 9 0 ৪8‏ 09 29 8 0 مت یج 8 0 ট FI 29 9 8 2৫‏ 
20‘ 
ر11 oid‏ 21 ۲چ 09 10 "٢ 6 0 8ST‏ 0 0 اڈ 6 0 = 8I 0 0 ۹٢‏ 0 0 ۲ 09 
পা OF 9 হা OT 09 ٤٣۲ 09 ج٢‎ OF ্ ০7110 00‏ 0 ہے হা ٢ 9 হা OT‏ 0 آ 2 @ 
St Lt 0 হা 21 Q St ۲ 0 ج٢۲ hens z 03 & we Peasury‏ 0 — ]و রর ড় Qt OT OT ZT 0 ZI‏ 
F Ze 02. 8 টু 0 0 8 0 0 48 09 * 8 0 F 4৫ yo Seq KE oe (7০705০০50) FNU-PuUNnoIg)‏ 0 98 & 0 


রি "SN 0 0 #1 — 0 0 FI -৪-& "SN sx | ০ رہ‎ 
— "SN 9 0 ٢۲ سم‎ 0 0 ٢ SN "SN “SN | elie 2 
9৪ FI ও OL St |0 #1 97 — 99 ৪7 10 ৪ هو‎ 109 8 9 {0 ৪ OF کے سے‎ o> 
5 Oo যু St 0 প্রা 9 |9 ٤ at _ 0৪ or jo ঠা jo 0০ Joo ঠা : ٭‎ ]٠ 
oS ۱ 0 কু STI 2 ٤ et 09 aI 1 | پر ع* سے‎ “৪ SN 9 star 22 
শ {| © 7 ঠা 10৪ et 10 গাগা } — 95 6 [0 ater (0 وج‎ (0০ ٤, তত 
7 09 Ot SI 3 9 ছু 3ھ‎ 2 | —_ 0.0 21 0 8 ZI 0 #1240 10 8 ZI 001 
নু O চা 9 {0 8 ۲ | 0 tI ٤ | — 9 8٢ 21 09 ZI ঠা 90 ۲ 0 0 8I 15 
= 9 এ چپ‎ হ LE IZ (9 Ot 1S ৰ سم‎ 00 22 9৪ Ig 9 ৪ IZ 0 ৪ 18 جو کت‎ 
ہے‎ : 09 4 19 ae : — SN ‘LN "খু টা sre سی تک‎ ie 
st i 2৪ এ oo. : — “UN ‘L'N os ৪ CFR go FIs 
2 a 029 2 (0 سے | ہر‎ "SN 008 02 8 109 زی فی | £ ں۶‎ 
> 7 £62 ৪ ৪ 8 7 SN 9 ₹ ৪ 0 0.৪ 099 8 | جو یی‎ 
ام‎ SN  ۔م چ‎ 8 — 09 হ ৪ ‘oN "SN ہجوت‎ 0805 
Ps a SN ‘08 8 _ 0 ৮ 8 ‘SN ‘SN وت‎ ৮17 
2 | / "SN 9 ৪ ৪ am og 8 SN ৪ ‘SN 0+007 
& 09 2 Ol’ OF 0 & OI سد‎ 0 9 Of {0 8 OF [oO 00 |0 ۶ OF . টি دی‎ 
ও 06 ৪ 26 ০0 9 8 OF پر:ع- سے‎ ‘SN ‘SN 09৪ 0 : টা 
سم 16& 9 9 9 ¢ 6 0 9 ت۴‎ 99 OF [oO ছা 6 09 216 09 তা ৪ : ্ 
a 0 F 6 ¢ 2 01 °9 6 OT — ০৪ OF |০ OT OT 0০ got |09 ৪ 0 : ٠ 
নে 096 ںا‎ & ot .9 Bot — jo zor fo orotr jo ভাট إ٥‎ 0 ছা . এ 
2 os ot |0 )میم تو عج‎ — 0 ৪ ot fo ₹ ot fo ক or jo ٠ OF 
کے‎ 9 OL It os I 9 § ٢۲ سے‎ 0 8 9 হ যু |0 چ٤‎ 10 হ ٢ "PIC 
2 ‘d ws ‘sy i-d ‘e# ‘sy di‘ গু ‘d ‘8 ‘sy ৭ es sy | ৫ we sey | 0৪ ‘sy | 0 “8 کر‎ 
22 ۱ 4. 00 شس ک۰‎ 11 West 439 চিট 


JO 98৮49৮19770 000 ysey 10750] : 
—pHep “Aepinyesg uo Zul pus ৪১১১ 10180511690 


8 Il ووو-‎ soquioaon ‘ATHOOOH 


৪১৫7৪ 
[0720৮501767 
wuspedulcyy 
aod [Uy 
[01280590115 
50160600781) 
4مہ‎ 
ایرنوات رن سادا‎ 
"201702010:10 
aod yey 
funsuEsapyeg 
aod yey 
]063010 +7 
95০01 
ےئ‎ 
[0102085011৩ 
90371 সূ 
[92006৯০019৭ 
>21170801101110 
مہ‎ 111 
০৬ 
22000001070 
يييهَفرائزانت‎ 


"53585800 BY} JO ০251৭ 


7ت2 sdpI “0G‏ (70[0900م) 


"> (feiquq) (9৮৩০০) عزمد‎ plo ہہ‎ 


۱ 


(ভাস) (UN|pPsul) 9012 019 ٭۳ت:‎ 
"* (TeseBaryp) (oug) sour pyo uemy 


5 ** (9830০) এসো چو‎ 


(umrpeu) Apped sny 
(95509) Apped ওতে 7 


টন (minipetm) Apped sou uvary 


٦ (০৯০০) Apped 010 uvury 


)ہمتسڑحدا٥(‎ Apped 010 ueury 
(aug) Apped 010 ۳ہ‎ 
“8179890 


*A}poum6e| 


لت ازفا ان نے 


537 


) 


1956 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 


te 


Oo 


৩১ ০১ ০.০ 02 ০৩০০৩৩০০০৩০ 86‏ ت 


oo ০১৩০০৩০০৩০৩ 


۰ 
ات 

سم 8 7 

oS «ow کے‎ ৪ 


০ ০০ ہے‎ ০০১০ MOMS 4 وھ‎ 
o Ae ےج © ہی‎ PY এটি بث‎ 
™| hl iets vet 


Oo oso © & 
6৭ 
اسم‎ 


NO & YW A A‏ ہم مم 


mw fm হি 


تب 


০০০৩০ 0০৩০০ 


9 


ے ০০০০০৩০০০০০‏ ےہ ہے مھ 


SI GE 


৩৩০৩০০৩০০৩০ ০৩ 


৩০০০৩০০০৮০০ ৩০০০১৩০৩০০০ 


০০৩০৩০০০০৩১ 
لت‎ 
mot 


৩০৩০৩০০৩০৩০ ০০০৮০০০৩০৩০ ০০ 86 جح‎ 


eo ج تی بيھ بي تی ي‎ ٥ 


ت 


০০৩০ 7 © ےج ي جح ©& مب جج تی‎ © SO 
بد‎ 
اسم‎ 


oo 9 © بج‎ © & © 
তের 
ەم‎ 


او 
=i!‏ 
rot‏ 


6 ٤ 


গু 
2 


9 


০১ ৩৩ ০৮০০ ৩০০০০৩০৩০০০‏ بہت 


oo oc ০৩০০ تی يت ھۃٍ‎ 


oO 


$s ٢ 
৪ 
ছু 


০০০০৮ 09‏ بجی © © © ৬ OF 00 ০৩০‏ مو 
۹ج 
ead‏ 


eo ৩৩০ ০৩১ ০9 ০৮ পি 
لت‎ 
لس‎ 


eco 0 ৩০৩০০৩০৩০৩০ ৩০৩০৩‏ بت 


৩১ ৯ ০০ 8 یی & ي‎ © 


ت 


8 ۲ ‘PR 
৪ ٢ ms 
₹ 81 ٭‎ 
8 آ5‎ ٠ 
0 ٢ 2 
0 SI রঃ 
8 6. = 
৪ ۲ ٠ 
৪ এ 7 
0 SE 
0 ٤ 7 
0 ٢ ٌ 
0 86 2 
0 ৪7 
৪ 61 “PR 
0 2 = 
0 81 7 
8 ٢ 7 
0 6I 7 
0 61 ٠ 
0915 7 
0 ৪7 ze 
0 .ا9‎ “PR 
SI 7 = 
09 কা 3 
oN 7 


کہ 
yugdeloays‏ 


[| ৪০৭৭৪ 
yey Wasey ر7٤‎ 
OG 
ona 
دز ین سی[‎ 
یں نو یں‎ ئ١‎ 
[০৪০০৪ 
WH Weasvy 7 
ound 
fmydaroeys 
WH مر و‎ 9 
OG 
ond 
naydesoayg 


OF 
ynqdeloayg 

اج نول 
নানু ২০০৪‏ 

جا Wesey‏ :یں 


(পু) ৪০0 

(Avqmog) 0 
"sands 

(yes ) 3 see0T 


(51৭) ۷۶د١‎ 
(jesus) 7٣7 
(510) এনএ 


(1155) 032) 


(2৭) 5 
(1105) 67 


(9৭) PHO 
(0008) ২5২1 


(810) 8 


گ۶8 (یے ہر ے 9270ع)" 


7 কি 


بح 


=e 


(ও) 0:5 
(51৭) 00 


25707 اائیں 05055( 


چرہعمد (جب, ہر ورھ) 


57+ )5( 
86::. (ورقھ) 


(9৮04) ৪০০1৮ 


رف 


9011 say 


(982809) ০ MOU ٣ 


1 ھ٤ تا‎ 5 
০০ 
aan ۱ 

চা 


nat‏ سس وڈ 
ہے স্পিন পিন‏ نب 


— 
ono memantine bs 
چسیوسسیسے‎ 


ا اہ سلمف ee ee‏ 
ےس oe‏ وسی ر نع یر ر fe‏ 
فدہ er‏ 
وت 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


ee পর পপ সস সর পপ tall ا‎ বু اسب اس سے ےم‎ 


538 


06 9 $ 0০ % 9 ےج‎ 00 F 0০9 8৯10 + 0০ ড় ¥ “ ) 6 ("erm (اوصو 155 مر ع‎ HONG 
6 £ OL কাত ও 0 হাত 0 ج‎ [৪ 0০ 8 0 م٤8 ووب‎ | °° (a) *npusg ٠ (725 চ JO “3m 5০) [og 
: | রতন 
032i €0 f OT ۴۲۲ 0 99 চা و‎ 06 It lo 0 Tt 0 ৪ OF ০ (ও) O11 7 نس سو سس رن‎ 
9 ator fs কা 6 ۲٢ ۲ | 9 stor fo 9 or 10 0 mt jo ৪ oF مم‎ (4) mupueg ৮১৮০১০৮০০ 
| ৰ “386g 
9 6 I ےج‎ jo 0 8 | 0 0 3 008 1 9 0 5 9 0 3 টি (বে) 06 "+ جو ز(ووعومویں‎ 
¢ tit £ Sit 29 SET | 0 হা 0 ZIT 0 ٤ 09 Zit 30 038 (a) 1087903০97৪ ৮৭ (৬00057:)) 7 
] [ a * “(ysasf) اس‎ 
0 8 OF Ot হা হা :9 হা St : 0 ٥ ٢ 9 8 ৪ :09 8 ٢۲ 99 ٢ "PH ছে) 6 (punos) [1 
0s এ {0 0 o ‘00 ০ | 0 0 of [0 0 os :0 0 og [0 0 ০৫ oot | -- (4) OFC "* upyduund 329৪ 
0 0 28 SN 390 9 হ 0 0 vw 10 0 چم‎ | ‘SN SN ০710 od Ca (ی۰ ج۰‎ ০70৭ 0০০৪ 
্ ‘SN 10 8 جو 90 جج‎ |০ 00 1 ‘SRK چر:ج‎ ১175 ona (noosunyz) ০7%:০ ০০০৪ 
9.0. & ‘SK 10 0 হও 00 ভ 10 0 جج‎ : ‘SN SN ہپ کی‎ onid (না) ০3৪7০ ০০০৪ 
‘ SN ۱ 0 0 08 SN ‘SN 6 0 08 19 0 ০৪ এ و‎ ond . (ZuyPeafreq) ০৪3০০ psag 
‘SN 10 0 وو‎ SN SN (00 93 |0 ০ প্রত ae ০0 ** (সাথ) ودمع کمرموہ‎ 
oo 8و 8 10 2 0 0[ یح‎ ০ 0 এ {006 ৭ ‘0 0 جو‎ 109 0 ০৪ ہت‎ 016 (HERON) ০২7০৫ ০০০৪ 
907 ۹ 800 02 7 OT 3% 0 0 6ج‎ 00 2% O08 & 0 0 يك‎ 7 | 01 (qa “NYY 352০8) ০3৯০০ ০০০৪ 
0 কাক |0 0 SZ 9 ড় 92 00 9% 109 0 چو‎ :9 0 24 10 0 ৪৪ 7 ord (peg ‘ANY, ‘Feqaq) ০75৭০ ৮০০৪ 
09 vet ےجا‎ ঠা O08 চ 0০ 0 جع 0 10 یی‎ :9 0 9৪ |0 0 ০৪ ‘PN Imydvoagg ٠۰ (seIpER) ০9৬3০ 
| | 59575694085 05702 
‘do wisq jd ج۔‎ ‘sy ‘d چج۔ ج۔‎ শত “ "শর [‘d -e “গু [-d ৪ sey তু ي۔‎ sg | ؿ-‎ ৪ "চু 
ناد ہت ھی ,| وو ہس‎ ও 7 سیف مم اج نت‎ 
و سمش ات‎ E | —pHep ‘Avpinzesg uo ۳۳۵ sysom UOIIOOD 


91699108 رزدوع- ! 


561 491৮1951 ০৮০০ A THOOOH 


0م 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


oO ০ 8 © 


09 ٢۲ 


0 


৩‏ یىی oO‏ ت 


৬ ০১ ০১৩ 


Oo © 


0 


oOo ےج‎ © © 


9ڈ 


ST 
97 


3৪৪ 


5 & OL 


Oo Nn ہہ‎ ৪ 


oO مھ‎ ৩০ @ 


0 


5 


۴۲6 


و7 
Or 9‏ 


eo مہ‎ 8 & 


৩০১৬‏ © بب 


0 


eo © 2 © 


&° بت 


৩১ 2 2 & 


ড و٤‎ 


9 9৪2 
FI 06 


wt et WwW‏ ہی 
ال 


tt 9 


OF Tet 
61 


o ০০৩ 


00০ ٢ 


o تپ‎ 8 © 


oo بث‎ © 


Oo ৩১ 


০০৩০০ 


+ © N © 


০ 8 ©‏ ین 


CO © 


০০১ & © 


92 
£6 


00 رن‎ ই & 


৪ 


0 0 9 


oOo ৩০৩ © 


o oOo 8 © 
o ৩০৩০০ 


৩১ ০ 


بج © ےج بی 
০১০৮৩‏ ہ 


+ 90 A % 


oO © 


95 
16 


০১ 00 He ০ 


৩০৩০‏ ت 
০৩৯৩ ©‏ 


৬০০০ 


oO © 


oO ث‎ © © 


Oo a2 © تج‎ 


eo © 


© ےہ ھ بت 


৪‏ و 


® 


۶6 
£6 


tl 


نات 


Qo ےي‎ ৩০ & 


oO ০০০০১ 


ooo w 


98 
ct 


o 2 © و‎ 


01 


ee 


“PR 


aqd 100g 


৪5067000670) 
yaydeiosgs 


0-1 
1]۲:48103113 
یئ‎ 00০২৬ زائی ظا‎ K 
1108053০০79 


[10093০7৪ 
WY ৮০১০৪ 307۴ 


(ও) wodeivy 
(5) 1reqrrraeyg 


(di) OF410 
(0) Modessyy 


(q) 93066] 
(q)  enpard 


(2) wiodureisag 
(dq) )]۴30000 


(dq) ھ٤6‎ 
{(q} ০0787 2৩ 


@ « ےج 


a (38558) apne 
oan Lt 


450755) 
100-0000005 


০01 
”$০2০-50 


08750. 


"* (1৮০05) murs Appeg 
“seppof ں مجبرد‎ 


٠ (8৪0 ও “sis ۲٤ Jo مجورع‎ সাও) MOQ 
(একট 8 “IST Jo 01৩5 সয়া) 409 


(Aep 8 “Is § Jo 55 সু) ৯০ 
৮7755 YORE 


রি (SIF £ JO مد‎ 36০00) 55০0 
"2525 رص‎ ৫০95 

v* WMTys) 8910 

(o7egng) 7 


(4:09) 56 
‘spnpodd 214 pun ANT 


eo => 


ee? ** 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


540 


08 * 1769 # Oo প্রা ৪ سے‎ 0 9 190 £ 9 
© 31 ৪9 os وع‎ 109 ৪ س ور‎ o ৪ 29 os 49 19 ৪ 29 fo 
09 9 و‎ #19 9 0 £ — "SN "SN 9۴و‎ £ 0 
09 ক ৪ 1م ےج‎ ৪ 2 & سد‎ SX 0 * FI 0 * FI 19 
@ وع‎ 0 0 OF {0 8 سے آعج‎ 9 8 ٢ পি SN 
0* 9126 4৫ "SN —_ "SN ৪ “oN 
09৪ 2 15 ৮৪ 10 #8 = 0 0 6 ০ ste jo ویج‎ 19 
os 2 |S a2 03 ৪ — 008 008 00 8 0 
0 ۴ 6 ত کے‎ 01 কা سے‎ 0 ZI ۲ 9 ₹% St 19 # gt lo 
0s 8 |0 16 0 8ج٢‎ ZI সস 0 8 FI 0 0 হা 0 3 হা 0 
9 09 ھ؛!‎ ٤ 6 ৪ OT OT — "oN 0 0. 07 06 0 ٢ 0 
9 ہوم‎ এ জাগা [OL at — 0 F LI 60 4 00 / ا٥‎ 
0 8 st :0 8 st {o » ছা = 0 ৮.9 [0 ¥ et |o ₹ at [9 
06 2t 19 09৪1 [9 سے ,ج8 جج‎ 09 হা ৪ 9 হা ৪7 |0 হা ৪1 0 
os جی‎ 0 8 6 9 ৭ "1 _ 9 F 67 9 * €া 109 ক BI 0 
0০ Wet 2 7 ٢٢ إ٦‎ ৪ 8 পি 9৪ IZ os 1% 10 ৪ tw | 0 
‘SN হত ৪ 0 হা ৪ — 0 Z18 0 হা ৪ ০ হা ৪ 0 
0০ ও £ "৪8 0 OF 10 #16 - ০ % 6 ০9 Ot {0 9 ot lo 
শে weeq dows sy jd e sy jd “8 ‘sy | ৭6 ৪ com fd ‘e ey إ‎ ٠ي‎ ce sy | -d 
56201 - ee ِ ere 11395 61 1 
jO با 8 تو وھ | 41220 197 ت٥ ہ89 پرےدرء ه‎ ea aes 
© — peep “AEpIngeg uo Fuypua مه‎ woposyjop 
3967 49088155914 | “৮0৬ 


গু 


(a) Wepawes 


টা (a) ৬3০৪০ 


yoseuTy 
: 1219300617 
রী ۸931 
| Assad 


oe 121181811 


آ ۸09919 / 


টি یئن‎ 
ru ১০০৮০০৪০৯৫১ 


یں 


০৮৮০০০১১০৫৫‏ ک2 


(90079 000) رک2856‎ 
০০০8 
(58811) ওতিভ নত 


"+ (yeuney) ওওিডজঘ্গ্ হস 


(dq) Aasseld 
(dq) Soveetd 


“OyIVUL O44 JO چروتاآہ‎ 


tie ک٭‎ <8. usa 
2 2৫৮0 +১০৬9৪ 


-891428229 pup 92704 


4 


-- 1 (17009) presaqy 


০০ (59) 77۳ 
ee (005) rep پچ٭‎ 
sid 81311292116) 
es (ets) تح‎ 
0 (তাতে) msupy 
"(apoyat) 82815 
oe (981909) چو‎ 
io (UmMIpeur) ০০ 
৮ {aug} چه‎ 
ض‎ (৪৪4০০) Appeg 


(Umpem) Appeg‏ ات 
2৯90‏ 


৪০০‏ نس نے 


91599191018 ا بزد9؟" 


رھ 
শি 71‏ 


10111) 


30), 


AUGUST | 


ری و ین 
,| 11 
4 #4 : 4 


av AL 


4 
7۲ 


0+0٦ 


i 


“ALCL 


4 


~ 


SUPPLEMENT PO THI 


ایند یس | چک 8و 0 0| ৪ s‏ 10 9 + 10 - ٭ہ ও ক 19 ৪‏ ہق 3198 

9 48 19 F & 179 ٢8 রি 5 aU 8 je ০৯. 9 ৪ 95 $00 9% | "8٣٦ a 

G ob fl 9 & 7 t 23 = 090 8 10 ৪ 9 '0 8 4 109 ٢ 28 | 7 smd ٦ (20১7) 92 
| | | | : ڑھرہ“‎ 
| | | : 

~ 9€ 9و‎ ডি এর iy 6 it | وو‎ | 9 0 ٢ jo Q ٢ | 0 eI st 5 بچ‎ LE | = 4 হী রি, 

0 0 Z 13 8 1 i° O ٤ | = | ‘eX -. চি | Th 10 6 97 | اتپ کو ا‎ DEG 3375৭ ppg) 0২73 
Or £ "SX + ও FI بس‎ ا١‎ 09 #1 .0 9 ড়া یئ‎ 0 ی٤‎ | প্রত | aes جو ہیں شید‎ ro | 


TTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


G 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCT 


0 ৪ £ 00 8 of OF — os ٢ 0 ৪ OI 0 ৪ 6 0s ق‎ 7 অত. 
0 Ff হ 2610 ۶ SI - 0 9 ৪৪ 9 0 St 0 0 হা 99 ٤ پنیا ہہ وت‎ তি | 
ٌ* 75 foto 19 9 جم‎ : — 9 8 &I 0 0 ج٢ و‎ 0 OL 6 6 1 “PH کر‎ ঘাস - = (115085) پرحده‎ 
“(mogR) লে 

| ۱ | 
টি ৮ এ 00 8 ॥ 0 09 & — ১৭ SN 008 "ON = i او ننائین‎ 
6 319 £62 99 OI ہے‎ 0 9 ٢ 00 It 0 ৪ ol 9৪ 8 17 سز‎ 1 mS এসব 
و‎ 0 8۲٤٥ ৪ ٢۲ 7০ ۱ = 0 0 ۲ 60٥٢ FI 09909 ی٢‎ 0 ٥ ٢۲ "+08301 92 
9 0 15 2 ৪ 7 | 0 09 ٢ ৃ عم‎ 0 8 ۲ 6 0 Lt 0 8 آ6‎ 99 ٢ 2 (ney) [তিতা . زان‎ 1991141 
9 ¢ 8٢ 0 0 97 ৮ کت‎ 0 F و٢‎ 9 ۴ OL 80 97 099 کی او‎ Ra ypuey 
osnw |ঠ 7 ঠা jos ato _ 090 st jo ৪ ঠা jos £ jo 0 at a fees یں‎ 
0 ٦ 9 9 OT ۲ ۔ :‪ ۲ج‎ আপ 9 0 ٢ 0 9 ھ٤‎ o 9 2t 10 ক ঠা « ٠۰ عوموەسقمته رعووںی‎ | + ০ (9১৬০০) শুন 
0 ৪1 SI ০০ ঠা 19 9০ ঠা ০ 9 0 ZI 009 4 090 ھ٢‎ 9০ Zt ০৮) Ipowy 
os 1 3 € 1 [9 8 at ۱ = 0 8 ٢۲ 0 8 8۲ 0٥٢ ۲ 0 ۴ 8I آوآٗ ای جو نیج‎ 
9 0 গ্রা [৪ 64 10 ৪ et : — 9 ₹ ৪ fo 0৪৪7 fo 0৪ [0 ج‎ এ « | (empeqmmeg) asodmeqog | - "* জেয) sone 
oom |0 0 8 ‘oo 8 | - 10 0 st 19 0st [0০ 0 st foo ٭‎ ৪ [রস 
09 * ٢ L & 02 2 FI 02 সপ is 0 [2 00 ١8 0 0 1g 0 8 902 ০ 1 উদিত এপ 
09 হ ot | 6 8٤ئ‎ .0 8 OL = 109 0 6 | 0 8 8٢ 19 8 6E | ٢ & و ہنشت‎ si (০০) چم‎ 
016 {8 هی‎ :9 00 | - 190 0 fos 6 fo oro fos a 01ہ وہ کی‎ " 7 (০5৮০৩) Apped 
990৪6 & stot 10 9 11 1 مم یت‎ # ot |o 0 ot 109 o @ foo .و‎ i 3+۶ ৮১১৫ 
09 5 6 0৪ or [0 For | i: 19 0 at 0 8 OF {0 0 ot {0 0 ٢ চি 'وئپپی ینز‎ 
60 9 6 oF ٢ o 2 II : = '0 0 IT 00 It osu 9 ০ যয ৫ ٠ useqey °c ری ا ک‎ <ppeg 
‘d we sq. ‘d es ‘SH -‘d ‘8 চর : “৫ چ-‎ sq ےہ ی۔‎ sy তু শ্ত পু | ৪ ہو.‎ রি چو ےي۔‎ 
টি مس‎ __ .:: 89 : পরি ےھ تا‎ ea রা রর নীলা “910 ‘JIYIVUL 912 مر‎ 20৮ “এসে 0৯ 


Sey |‏ صمسریاج ۔ 


——peyep ‘Avpinjze¥g uo Zurpus syvem ০9190 


٦یت‏ نق ا ASQUIGAOR‏ 9967 


“0٢3۷011988 


249 


ور 


۹ 
€ 


ST 30, 1 


7 


7 


۷/۱ 1١۱ 


4 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZI 


: 2 - রী = নি জিরা পারিনা کس تک‎ পি یی‎ ০ এজ, ৩৯৫ ہے‎ তত 7 ৩ ছিটে ০৮5 So 5 So পি اق سے 2 نے پ‎ 2 ৩৩ ہا تھا مہ یہ سو سیت بت تک ہو‎ ee 2 _ ےرب‎ ৮০2 ٠ ےس وت ےا لہ‎ en ہے نیچ _۔خن۔ ہم‎ এ : = পু : = ue 
— : রর 7 = oo 2222 ৬ ০ ee ee i পাস ہے ہے تے۔۔ اسرب سہع کے شراری۔‎ সিজার 


۱ | : 
O ult §@ 07 | G OUT سے‎ ০ oll اک رک‎ oUt G TEE 1 وٹ‎ (৭) نے ۰ع تقد‎ ৮ وو‎ [AGT 
ৃ 1 ‘ 
, ? "hij wd 
- এ | | প্‌ 
} | ۱ 
| | 
9 fa [এ ৪ 25 10 F Is | os 2 10 F 1৪ 10 ₹ ছে 190 ge 0007 | نہد کر‎ | -- ٠- (pepeuBun BBs way 
| ৃ | ات‎ 
| 1 ۲ 
০ جع و‎ 09 ۴ ৰ 0 09 Ff f টা এ 0 O F 0 9 F ۴ 0 9 Ff 7 77 1ٹ‎ a+ ee Liter € 
i ; 1 
: : | رر ووھجو*‎ OUD 02210 
: 7 : | 
, | 
: 4 | | 
و‎ > cc 19090 094 ;0 8 6 | টু lo 0 69 : 0 OL 0 0 6& 0 0 0 ০771 ales وئ بی بت‎ | °° =a ১৫92], 
ৃ ৃ ۱ ا‎ ٠ 
99 st jo are vos | — 09 এ ‘ose 0 0 0. |09 ৪ 6 এট ۱ 
۱ | | | wposyey ۰ * عہ:چ)‎ >روع:م٠‎ 0 
۱ 1 3 | 4৪9০0 
7 | 
۱ 
ےئ ں‎ ز٥‎ ৮ 9 0 9وج‎ -- loos oo2 00 9 0 دم‎ 119, (1816 
¢29 |S ৪ ى‎ jo ste _- 19 ৪ ৪ |006 ,006 (088 ৮1 (98111 
: : ৃ | ۱ 
09 হ ৪ oF £ ৷ 5 ৪ je 7 0 6 9 ৪ 8 0 ৪ € 19 ৪ £ এ courpjag ۰ (TRUS) pwIITY 
of £ ؛‎ at |0 ৪ ভা — }o ost |9 ost |OO TW 19 0 08. (8141 
0 ھک‎ 2 6 ۶ Of 10 غ‎ IE - (0 0 ot 19 9 গা ‘OO ঢা joo nr 07 سچور>تت‎ ٠ ٠ (قب)‎ ھ٣‎ 
o ore joo. po Fe সপ 9৪ € 109 ৪ হ (0824 10 0৪ | “i | 1:2716 
00 ৪ ٥ ت8‎ 9 OT CS بے‎ 0 F 6 ও ও ৪ 10 ৪ % 19 0 ث٭‎ | রে [5 | 
0985 9 হ₹ ST6 jf; হও 109 ৪8 ছি 017 ৪ 5 ৪ £ 002 'ٰ 25 وورچوت‎ | ٠ ٠ (হানে ওরা 
ৃ নাস রন র 
6 6 হ ate 0 01 ৪ 109 ৪8৪ (008 কিনি 9 90৪ | cS ie ar | 
o চ ৪ 0 8 926 — - 9৪5৪ 109 ۶ 6 {06 ৪ ৪ 9 ০৮ ا‎ এ یں‎ 
6 ۶۲ 8ج 0 ۓ‎ 0৪ ৪ 0 ৪ ৪ 0 31s 0 ৪ 8 10 ও ৪ | ৮৮, ہہت‎ ٠ .٠ (سی)‎ হত) 
os zt ۔٤۰ی ۔- چچ 0 ئ)۔' جو‎ 9 0 a 10 9 হা | ৪ 0 0 GI : টান a 6ت‎ 
بج‎ ৪ ot و‎ 6 6 10 ۲ | — 7 Ost ‘00 হা 190 OF {eo a | oa, (resis p 
00 ٢ ৪ 5 ৪ ج٢‎ — 0 جج‎ ৪ | ‘SN বা ا‎ ০5 csaupreg ) ٠ -* (gems) pun 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE OALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 90, 1956 


B44 


0 & & এ FIZ 0 SIs 008 و‎ হাহ 008 008 re ১৮০০১ ہو ہہ‎ 5 2০৪ 
Qe Ot OF 9 ۶ OF 0 0 ٢ 0 و‎ হা 0 0 হয 0 یج‎ হা 0 0 হা aveld | +* BOS eT "* (93165 4758) 4500 
ও pur পচন 
SN SN 0 0 0৪8 0 0 0৪ ‘SN ‘SN ‘SN ‘PR | -" (59215 ٦ 7১ 
ey 
9 0 Té 8 1 0 ٥ ٢۲ 60 0 05 0 9 ۲ 0 0 Zt 9 0 ٢ এ جو‎ ৪110 
9৪ 05 {0 0 ع 0 و‎ OT 0 8 ہو‎ 9 ৪ ہو‎ 9 ৪ و ہو‎ ৪ 9 : fauSeye | ১০1৩6 wey مرھد‎ ০৭) 0595২] 
0৪ ۲آ 6 £ آو‎ 6 0 ٢ 00 &I 0 ج یم‎ 0 0 £ 0 09 &I PK | [0৪557 |" (17800) 17 
“space 
৬] 
6 SI IZ 0 0 22 0 0 8ج‎ 0 0 হহ 0 0 یچ‎ 0 0 2 0 0 & a esuUppeq (82S OT “44 ৯411) ৫০০7৪ 
0 ৪ tt |& ٤ ٢ 0 8 SI 0৪ এ 0 8 &I 09৪8 ST 0৪ ٢ iia ১/১১১০১৪৪৫ 
0 9 6t 19 0 ৪7 0 0 ۲ 0 0 gt 0 9 8٢ 0 0 8I 0 0 ۲ qyoeq | *+ سی ا:الانذنت‎ ZI عو‎ aay) 08 
"wos puy وپومم‎ 
O St £9 |} 0 0 ৪89 | 0 0 87 009 801 10 0 ৪9 109 6 got | 0 O ৪91 0سق انال‎ | ٠۰ (AUp ٭‎ ‘srs ے‎ 80101914 স্যর) ومھ‎ 
"IND? چرودآپ‎ 
৪ 076 +2 ৪ 1 10 09 8 ৪ 009 |0 0 96 |0 0 $6 pa ٠٠ ان تد نل‎ রি ১০151 
: | | "yng 
doe চু : ے۔ ے‎ ey od "ছি چے۔‎ ‘sy [doe ہی‎ fd ৪ sy | ৭ چ۔ ے۔ | ہی وی‎ 
۱ ইরা _ | 0392 01 ۶ئ‎ 09 
ےکی‎ ঘা | এফ ছি | یہ یدرو‎ Jo ০০০৬ “এক ১০০২০ 


উ০ ৪৩৬৮ সহ ত হত 
ৃ ৮3৬0 ‘Acpinzeg uo furpus ومرگحرہمه حەدرت‎ 


_— ےر يہ ভি‏ تم“ شض 2 এপ সি‏ ٠ے‏ 


“0261 4equieaon -ppuoo—Cv 8٤0٤ 8991) ۱۸۸ 


545 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTS# GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


0 OT 2৪ 
0 6 & 
=O OF 8% 


0 8 6 
0 0 6 
5 ٢٤ 8 


0 0٣ یو‎ 
0 و‎ 6 
O Fi ا‎ 


৮৫০: 


ع نوہ )36542( 


ST 80, 1956 


7 
H 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, 500 


546 


Oo ٭‎ ۲٢۲ ¢ Of St 0 0 ٢ عو‎ 0 0 ET 0 G0 ]مہ‎ - 106 O ৪£ 0 9 &1 aS 0 একি وو‎ = (প্রা) DUD 


#00 8 8 £ 67 9 8 ج‎ 090০ 3 00 @I 0 0 &I 90 ৪7 ہو | یت 2 کان‎ টি (Tews) چریحط‎ 
و‎ 8 ৪7 ‘S°N 9 8I SI — 0 0 SI 0 0 SI 0 0 &I 0 0 SI |[‘purRg]~ رجہ )809( وو | بس یا‎ 
(৮০৮41) ےہبعد٭‎ 
"SN "SN 0 ۶ OF — 0 0 و‎ 0 9 OI 0 9 OL SN 15 0ہ ىہ‎ ۳٠٦ রি ঢোএ 
‘SN oN آو 8 0 آو 8 0 ہو * 0 — 9 9 و‎ "SN 0+0 uvapimg ٠٠٦ (281809) مہ‎ 
9 I FT Ol g Zt Oz LI سم‎ 09 ZI 0 9 LE 9 OT LI 09 247 925 ভএওযসূগ্য0 | 
oO ক FI or 8 Zt 0 6 ZI سے‎ 9 8 LT 0 8 ZI 06 হা ۲ 0 8 ZI ০৮৮ ৮০ upapimg ٠ ات پاو يسا پیا‎ 
00 FI 9 آو 3 0 و‎ — 0 0 9 09৪ OL 6 8 OL 0 8 SI 0 +47. suey ٠ (9880০) sory 
9৪ OL ¢ O1 ৪7 9 হা ٢ — 0 0 6I 0 8 "۲ 0 কা ٢ 0 1 158 ১৮৯৪১৬১০১১৩, 
09 I1 971 & ٤ 7۴ 0 কটা ST — 0 F آ۴"‎ 0 8 পা 0 0 61 09 ٤ 7۲ 00 ۶ ueaApm”g | ٠۰ ae PULTE 
0 STE ٢ ৪৪67 O ক St _— 9 7 0 0 61 00 یت یت ٢٢ج" 0 آ0‎ wuyey ٠ و‎ €চ2010902) SORT 
9 ₹ 6 9 9 ےج 8 09| جج‎ -- ৪8 "SN © 0 ৪ |0 0 2৪ ae aaa ereyqyeng ٠٠ = ]8 
0 8 6L 6 09 یج‎ 0 ৪ & — SN ‘SN 0 0 & 0 0 ور | ہی ین تد یت جع‎ sis (305) جرد‎ 
"SN “ON ٣ £18 — 0 ৪ 8 0 0 6 0 0 6 ‘SN 7৮12৮ (কু) BIeqysnA) ٠ os EAGT 
چر0‎ "SN 0 FI 8 — 03 ৪ 0 0 6 09 5 6 پر :ع-‎ ৮8175 (3) Teapmg ٠٠ (০৪৮০০) 10 
0 ا ٭‎ "SN 9 F 6 جب‎ 0 9 6 0 9 6 0 9 6 09 +18 6112 (q) 1 
0 09 ৪ چر چ۔‎ 9 F 6 —_ "SN 0 ৪ 6 "SN 0 0 6 চর (4) ?জ্মতিতেডটেে ٠ [1৬ ১০৮১০০১০৯০৫ 
9 0 4 ‘SN 09 6 - 9 ৪ 6 ০ ৪ 6 ০9 ৪ 6 00 6 এ es (4) weapmg ٠٠ (5৮০০) Appeg 
9 9 6 0٢ 8 ۲ 9 0 II — 0 9 I 00 It 0 0 It 0 1 রি ٭‎ ))( স্মুভাও0 
৪ ৪ 6 0 6 OT 9 7 0 0 It 0 কা OT QO 1 0 8٢ OT 271 (aq) $97800০1৭ ٠٠ (সা) Appeg 
0 6 6 OI 8 OF 0 3 It সস 10 8 TI 0 0 ٢ 03 ছু 0 চা OT শটে আও | +* (qd) Ueaping | °° (07050) ج000‎ 
| 2290 


“$661 “AON | یت‎ 98398 496 01 1 89 


۱ ০1৩০ “41058 uo Furpua سحدود‎ 5০৯+১০০০ 
সহ হর 2 রতি লাল রি 
"6967 460109۸018 8৬750811715 “89318 91555101188 


ETTE, AUGUST 380, 1956 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE OALCUTITA GAZ 


ٴ۰ 


& بے بث ي يیث 8&8 تث & بی ooo oc fF‏ 


৮229 ig tat tic i ae rrr দস 


© Oo oO © 
ت‎ 
99 


n 0 ৩০ ON ০৭ بت‎ 00 
]سم‎ 
سم‎ 


st 


"6 

aq ww 
اسم‎ 

শি 2 


9 8 3٢ 


ই‏ خج লি ee Nee‏ ہ9 ee ere নি‏ تک ج 3 OU‏ ہبہ 


© ےت تا ۶ جج 


eo © 6৮৯ NAN YW Oe HH ہم‎ 90 ৫ শা ىي‎ OD MH 


90 ০০ 00 ৩ 8 90 ئٛئت بي‎ ৩ O&O & تب ج)‎ 


CO fo Oo تن & می‎ © 


يج S&S‏ جح جح 8 G&G 8 fF G&G Oo Ff‏ تی 8 تہ یىی 8 ০০০৩০‏ بت بت 


৮৯0০ WH OO Ww © 


om 


oOo‏ © © © ی۳ 


e©oeoooooecoeoecoeaoeeweeooeeeo se 6 


০ ০ © ৩০৩০০ 


0 


৮৩৪০০‏ کی 8 یح ০০00 ০‏ 7 ت بت 


N 
اسم‎ 


جو یت ৩‏ پچ ات Oo‏ © 


0G 


o O° Oo 8 © © ©@ 


eo 8 SC ©‏ بت 


8 8 يہ 8&8 S&S‏ 82 ہی 08 یی oo ০৯৩০‏ بین 


৩০০০ 00 ০৮ ০০ ০০১‏ بت 


90 © ০ ০১০০০৩০০০9০ ০০ & © ® ٥ت‎ 


al 
at 
Bt 
6t 
61 
61 


ooo ৩০ & © بج‎ 


© جج یح 8 &8 8&8 8 08 8 بے 82 @ 8 بت © يی یىی o oo‏ 


2a on 00 ০১ © بث‎ 


DH ®‏ بج ت8 بج GCG‏ بب ٭ Mec‏ بج تچ ০০৯৩০৩০৩০০0‏ ہت تی 


آ9 
aI‏ 
٤ھ‏ 
ST‏ 
87 
2 
St‏ 


oO ৩ ৩১ جج‎ ০০৩০ © 


S&S & ©‏ بج 8 oc ৩০৩০৩০৩০০০০ ৩০০০০ ০৩০০‏ تن 


ono 00 ০০ O&O OD پ‎ 


w Oo ০ ৩১০০৮০৮৩০9০ ৩০ ৮৮০০ © ০ ٭‎ ৩১০৮০১৪০০৮৪ 9০ 


or 
ھ٤‎ 
نگ‎ 
St 
St 
81 
ST 


ae 


٤ 


jorutsy 


170০৫ 


0৮0১৩ হা 
fuBsiuey 
[১৮৮ 
মহত 
TEU 


রা (11583) JUSTE 


(Ziq) 20877 
(১৫৪৪)০৩০) 200۴ 
৫8 ৮৫ 


(07005) 08 


(579) 0 


(0৪) PED 


548, 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


"SN 


7 


جي 8 وی یی 8 8 6 8 ىی يث ي يیٌ 2 8 oOo oOo Oo‏ 


‘dow oe ৫ یہ‎ 


| 

1 | 
20001240 N 

jo oBvleaay | 


"9968 400116۸01 


ON بت مم نہ‎ NN he ا‎ He بؿ ت8ج‎ AN 
০ 
سم‎ 


So 
اڈ‎ 
oO 
rd 


رح 
نت 


“ea 


رابغ رن 


70000 17 


سپ یی يی ھؿ می یج يی وی ي٥‏ یچ بی مت یی يي جج يی يٌ ت بت ً — تب 


٦ 


ও TI সা ‘oN 0 O হ£ o 6 IE 0 0 ٢ 8+008 ১ 
سن آ0‎ 0 0 FT 98 It 0 8 ٢ 0 8 OT 027 لس میت‎ | 
$I IL _ 09 ০ হা |0 024 10 ০ হা [09 9 ورعجىدء جا تید‎ |٠ 7 رورق‎ [নত 
ZI St سس‎ 0 0 ٢6٢ 0 ০9 ٢ 0 0০ ۲ 0 0 ০৪ | برک یی‎ ery. 
0 OZ سم‎ 0 9 ۹ 0 0 0 0 0 ০৪ 0 0 ০02 سو 72 | رت تو ان‎ 
SI 1 — 0 0 22 0 O ٢ 00 47 0 0 ZI نر ہش 3 کت‎ 
2 ۴6 سے‎ 9 0 1% |0 8 ی٢‎ 0 9 0 |9 0 ০৪ 2 [আছে 
8 5ن 0 0 6 ے060 سے 6ن‎ 0 0 0 0 0 3 ৮ 2 ৬5 |" = (9) reqay 
6 I سم‎ 0 F IT 0 0 TT 0 0 ٢ 0 0 &I ০1 সিকি | 
8 FI سے‎ 0 0 এছ 0 0 47 0 8 ٢۲ 09০ II ০22 و عو ند‎ = (7075) 43৬7 
0 ৪7 سے‎ ৪ ৪ম 0০ &I 0 0 ٢ دوہ کو‎ freuen |" سا‎ (৭) +9126 
9 হয | — 0 0 #1 9৪ ৪ 99 11 |09 oO Tt - : 0০08০ 
৪ 3 | سے‎ 0 0 হা 0 0 چ٢‎ 0 0 ٢ 0 0 م٢‎ ee 2 کرو روم‎ 
‘SUSE ا‎ — 0 0 1 0 0 FL !0 0 &I 90 FI 0۳۴٣ وت )0009( 2 ** | ر٭ہط‎ 
آ۶‎ ce 00 হয {0 ৪ It 10 0 হয {0 0 ٢ تی وی‎ 2007 
as | = 00 sf |0 0 % 10 8 হা {oO ৪ TT ie 000: ٠ (৭) 00530 
۱ 
SI ۲ ہس‎ 0 €া ٥ ٥ 8t {| ‘SN ‘SN کٹ‎ ০527 
0 8I _ 0 0 ৪7 |0 00 :00 2t |o 0 at جس‎ ake ینید‎ 
৪ 61 — 0008 |0 ০ ০ ০০ 8 |00 ০৪ جس‎ ৪৬7 | | ٠ = وع (دسعر)‎ 
0 0৫ = 00 & 0 0 ০02 0 0 0৪ 0 0 0 pane دی‎ ৯৯০ 
0 ٢ - 0 092 09 0 8I 0 0 ZI 0 ٥ ZI سد دی ات‎ 
ZI 8 - 00 8 09 9 2 .0 0 61 0 0 0 100039ন0| ~~ ছল | ٠ cas (31q) pun 
100০০028950 تبہعرہب:‎ 
‘do প ی۔ پیں۔‎ we sy | তে wosqi-d ৪ sy ى.:‎ ৩ ey | "৪ چی۔‎ 
2ە+) - 09 سس : 7 702 | 2 ہی‎ নিন 


_ ৮৮95) ‘kepmyeg wo 207000 ৪9০৬, ৪০:)০০20 


“770-۷۸ ۹ ০০০০০০০০০০০ 


549 


TTE, AUGUST 30, 6 


2 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA 7 


© یی یی یْ oO ৩১‏ 


oO ০ ০ © 


০০ © 


Q Zt 
8 9 
€ st 


“HN 
0 ¥9 
0 OL 


OL $ 
* 6 
8 tt 


Nn ON © 


0 


نید 


3¢ 
LE 


88 


لت 


oOo ০০০৬০ ث‎ ০৩০০ ০০০০০৩০৩০০০ 


اب 


Of 61 


oo wo moses ৩১৪৩০ ০০০ ০0 ৩ 
نت‎ 


21 
ot 6 
0 27 


0s it 
0 ٤ 


0 ort 


0 


~~) oo ৩ ৩০ ০৮০০ جج‎ 2 


০১০০০ 


Of t 


০০ 8 ©‏ تب 


oS 
S82 8 


0 Tf 


0 ٤ 0 OLT 
909 FIT: 0 ৮5 
۰ 
00 $& 9 9 6 
Oo F & 0 0 F 
0 0 & 0 0 6 
0 0 2৪ 0 8 آ9‎ 
‘ON ‘SN 
‘SN BN 
"ON ‘SN 
SN “SN 
"SN o 0 8st 
SN SN 
SN SN 
0 O FT 090 FI 
0 oO ۲ 0 0 &I 
SN “SN 
SN پر"‎ 
oN “SN 
0 0 22 0 0 6 
0 9 0 0 0 0 
0 9 ۹ 6 0 09 
9 0 0 0 0 ০9 
0 Fb OF || ٭‎ OF 
6 0 OT 0 0 0 
0 6 Tf G 0G ft 


sf 


ےج ےی 


رب 


) 8910 51 


হোত] Wasp 


3١0‏ )59245( ات 


টু qayppeyd 


PINOSIN VT 


ss ried 


oye}0d 38988 


refapg 


টং (Serpe) 078700 
ও (TeqyUTe NI) 078907 


e608 4 PUD 89012000‏ صیہررع۔ 


(eugeg 20) 1101 
০১০০৬ 


کر ٥00ر‏ )5558( 5 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALOUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


0 


0 ৪ 49 10 0 হয JO 8 ۲ _ ও 0 SI [0 0 Sst 19 9 Sat ,٘ 90 SIT ا‎ yreyomod "| -- (yq319m رجہ‎ আও) 
,°% % {0 0 18 رر‎ — 00 ৪৪ [0 0 ৪৪ [0 0 4৪ [0 9 ৭৪ রঃ اک یں‎ 
0৪ ঠা إ٢‎ 9 TOL ] ٢ হা ৪ _ 00% 10 0 ৭6 |0 0 96 {0 0 0৪ سس کس‎ jawyourog ٠٠ سعرفون‎ 94) FONE 
09 3186 {6 ০ Zor 19 9 OIE == +O O OIL | O O OTL | oO O ০7 | O O OTT ای ناد‎ ্ 
০9০0 ost 10 0 হা 10 হা গা — 109 গ্রাঃ 1০ 90 sit jo ০ sit jo o om | سو‎ yuvqourog ۰ ززجحد عدبعوں‎ 1৬০ 
ےمعربلم*‎ 
9 9٤8 26 8 9 07৪ سم‎ 10 9 6 9 ৪ ৪ 9 পা ৪ 0০ ৪ | 0 ٣22-2 
0 مج‎ fo om fo ot —- (907 foot footw joo: * joouesy 
096 foro 6 9 * 6 — ‘ooo [0 ক% می‎ 1০9 ৪ jose 1 “fr weapmg | °- (pepexfun) 28০ yong 
0 #16 0 06 6 #16 — io 8 or |o ০ or joo ot {0 0 6 ا‎ ueapmg | -" (৮০০৪3) د29‎ yong 
06 ৪ 09 ৪ 9 STZ _ |ore 0 OZ 0 হা ৪ 0 O19 | রিতা 23.11 
9 ক OF 9 0 ٢ 9 9 OT 19 9 Oo 0 9 OT 0 0 OT ১4৮57 275 josuesy 
98 8٤9 G ٢ 86 9 چ٭‎ 8 2 | 0 ot 8 oF 8 0 9 6 0 60 4 1 “ 22 uUvapm”g ٠ €০০093850) ح22‎ way 
0s6 {3 ৪ ৪ 19 ہو"8‎ — 1096 jose |০ ০ ০0 [0 ৪ لغ‎ | oor | -" ueaping ٠ (popez8) 380 چردہ‎ 
| | "S00 
0 ড় হত |0 0% |0 0 এও سے‎ 9০ 9৪ |0 ০0 ات چو 9 0| وو‎ ৬৪৪, 06۸0 
os جع‎ |٥٣۰ 9 95 10 ٭‎ ¥ -- ০০0 কহ 10 یو‎ 10 0 কত [0 ০0 দত | او‎ jocuvsy | ٠ (11298 TILA) ynIEOD0D 
۱ | (At) 524 
0 + er ىسا‎ [0 0 $F =e o 0 st |9 9 SE |0 0 FE {0 O ٢ | 07 انس سن‎ 
جو جم‎ | Ot 5 ।0 0 ০৪ — |0 0 গুহ |0 0 গন {00 o 109 ০ 6৪ ۱ٰ 1125, eajvy ٠٦ (09938) ynweos0g 
ose |s ors foo. - 002 19০9 এ foos |০ ০9 : “* ueapmg 
o + or |0হাণঢা [0 © £ _ 0 6 9 9 0 £ 00 ৪ 09 9 £ | oor | °° jooussy | *- (50818) ওত৫0 
| | 
d چن۔ ےی‎ |" we sy fd we sy | ও ىيت۔ ٭‎ ‘d ‘se چچو۔‎ jd w eq | ي۔‎ "9ম | ٠ى‎ 5 - 
নি ہے موس مدشست‎ বি | 
ঃ i 1 a 067 [ 
سی یلاہ مب یں‎ | | = দন ne 6 
—paep “Aupingeg uo 30105: ৪94 رمر*مجرمہ‎ * 
রি 
|| ھوع-‎ sequieaon "970০ ঘড় ১0708 -990880 91599101198 


551 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


OSE‏ سج 0 | OOF 109 09 OSE‏ 0 م, ہو 0 9 چو 0০066 109 O‏ تر 
O 02 0 0 968 {0 0 $e [0 0 095 10 9 osz‏ 10 68 0 10 یو 8 0 

৪8, 06 SOI | 0 0 gat 0 0 গুহা | 0 0 GBI |0 0 SBE 10 O aI 
غ و‎ 9St 10 0 Tet 10 ٭‎ Itt 0 6 Off |0 0 SFE | O 0 OST | O 0 OF 
9 ۴ Zt و‎ 9 ৪? 0 0 03 0 0 0 0 ০ 0 0 0 ০৪ 0 0 0 
9 ক 61 0 0 ০৪ 0 0 ۲ 0 0 ٢ 0 0 ٢ 0 0 &I 0 ০ ٢ 
0 0 02 ¢ 9 0 0 0 2 0 O 22 0 0 22 0 0 2 00 @ 
0 8 وم‎ OL ٤ 95 مہ‎ 8 8 00 & 00 ৪ 0 0 & 00 یج‎ 
0 8 ZF 0 0 و 9( 90 جج‎ O OF 9 0 OF 0 0 %& 0 0 St 
0 হা 99 0 0 ۵۵ 0 0 ہو‎ 0 0 9 0 0 ۵ 0 0 94 00 9 
0 8 3 6 0 06 6 0 08 0 0 وو‎ 0 0 9 "SN 0 0 ০007 
0 8 مم | )0 00 اه‎ 0 6 0 0 O11 | 0 O 0$ 0 0 08 0 0 001 
9 0 0৪ 0 0 ও৪ 0 0 9৪ 9 0 ৪ 6 0 SB 0 0 8و‎ 0 0 9৪ 
0৪ 5৪ 0 0 9৪ ৪ 0718 "SN 0 0 0৪ 0 0 এ 0 0 06 
0 8 29 0 0 06 0 ZI ৪৪ 0 0 sor | 9 0 se 9. 0 1ه‎ 0 0 06 
0 8 4 0 0 ৫4 0 0 Gi 0 0 3 0 0 GZ 0 0 SZ 0 0 SZ 
9 0 08 و‎ রা... ٥ ৪ BL 0 0 ০৪ 0 0 ١ 0 0 OL 0 0 ٥ 
09 ج٤‎ 8৪ 0 0 09 9৪ ৫৮ 00 ‘OS ہے 0 و جو 0 و‎ 0 0 99 
0 হা جو 0 0 یچ‎ 0 SI 2৪ 0 0 9 |0 0 ৪8৪ 0 0 ৪৪ 0 0 0৪ 
00 8ج‎ 0 ০ 6 09 0 IS 9 90 7৪ 0 0 18 9 0 ۴ 0 09 7৪ 
0০09 6 OL ZI 2৪ و‎ F হ£ 9 0 06 0 06 & 0 0 &৪ 0 0 8ج‎ 
o 0 9৪ 0 0 (08 0 0 Of و‎ 0 98 0 0 08 0 0 ০৫ 0 0 یو‎ 
9 0 28 0 0 হঃ 0 ZI 0৪8 00 248 19 0 & 90 عج‎ 00 28 
0 0 SZ ০ 0 ৫৪ 0 0 ও 0 0 ৪ 0 0 & 0 0 ٭‎ 0 0 & 
@ ০ ০২ 00 & 0 0 এ 0 0 & 9 0 9 9 0 9৪ 9 0 & 


spaeqoeg 
اس انز‎ 
ئئم۲‎ 81 


٠٭‎ (এছ) ‘srs ع‎ 01514 সায়) عمری .ہہ‎ 


(এছ) 59০৪ ۲ সেল এ ATU) MOD 


“HOD IH 


ak (82208 ZI 2879৬ ০৯) ৫০০৭৪ 


(53995 OT 90279 ৯১7) 55910 


“wep 2 days 


CUS H 
# 

. nyoy 
تن‎ م٤‎ 

ری 
(patayysun)‏ 
٣۲‏ ب(زومرریعجہ) 
JA‏ )4809( 


119 25 چر جرح "sponpes7‏ 


¥: 


SUPPLI 


পা 


62 


MENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 6 


oo fF ي تی‎ © 
Oo © © ৩ جح‎ & 
' 
سم‎ 
N 
eo Oo بت تی بے‎ © 


0০0 99 !0 0 جج‎ |0 ৪ وو‎ -- 
9 F 89 ‘OL হা 6৪৮ |0 ৪ ৪9 — 


09 ক 2 :0চ ا‎ | 0 8 59 
: 

0০0 et 10 جج‎ |0 হা سے جج‎ 

09 St ৪ ৪ 24 |0 © 08 — 

0 8 8 ;9 9 یه‎ 19 ae — 
| 


: | 
لت‎ | 98395 ১ 


TOQMosON ig uqucuysey | چو0807 0ة‎ | ৫৫৫৫০ কট ১৫৫: কট 


jo ateray | 


oO تب بب تج‎ * © 
os 
red 


>) 
8 
সে 
a 
ام‎ 
۲٢ © In: 
o 
بت‎ 
30 
| 


9৪ 95 10 0 কত 10 0 % جج 0 ۴ص۱‎ 
ose fos se fos কহ 10 ৪ چو‎ 
9 9 2 {00 গু |o8 چو‎ Jo 8 چو‎ 
0 0 oo إ٥‎ 0 oo |o 9 cos | 0 0 905 
0 6 Se | 0 0 0925 10 O ৫৯2 | 0 0 St 
0 0 প্রান্ত (0 0 siz |o o sts |0 ০ ৭5 
0 0 یی(‎ | 0 0 ost |o o oft 10 ০ oft 
0 0 sit {0 ০ gtr |o ০0 sit 10 ০9 att 
0 0 Sst 19 0 get jo o gat |o o ait 
0 ےج‎ ০ ےاج‎ ০৪ £ ০ ৪ £ 
0 0৮4 0 9 ৪ 098 و‎ 9 ৪ 
008 0* 8 oF ৪ 0% ৪ 
00 9 [0 0 99 {0 0 چو‎ |09 ০ وو‎ 
00 ৮ 19 0 # |o 0 یج 0 0| یج‎ 
00 ss |0 0 es |o 9 وج 9 0| وچ‎ 
0০0 @ {00 s 109 0 গর |0 0 ৪৪ 
0 0 08 {0 0 of |0 0 os |0 0 os 
00 جج‎ |00 2% 10 ০0 چم‎ 10 0 sz 


ٹن 9 007 : 43036 


ep £800755 50.3017055 5৯০9, 00700000‏ و3پ-- 


۹1 


ON] JO তাত‏ 521 ڑ19- 


اوہ VPP 5510০8)‏ تٗوصیہدو) 


“24h 
i 
wie (FPIq) Tey 
“O93 GOT 
PIE EN I! 
مبردوچد-‎ 
چر یرمع‎ 
"nO 


as (48238) Appeg 
'497৮৩এ 92750 


“21170050100 


১৯১১১১১১১১3 082১ SS 
“৪9013 91539101178 


5567 4000193۸01 


21০8০০11500 


558 


+ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 195¢ 


eeroseoeeneecwooeo.se 


a بت‎ WO ৩ ০০৩০ @ ےم"‎ 


ہہ ہ শু ৮৩০ ১৩০০৩‏ کک 
6৭‏ 
۳ح 


= 2 
০ প্র 


ہي م۷ 
o ©‏ 


© & یی بن &©& بج © © 6° © ©@ oe‏ 


৫টি ৩১ 


a ৪ 


© ہے 
i‏ 

ma © 

cl 


| 


শ০ ৩০০০৩০০৩০০০ ০৩০০০৩০ ০ 


এ 
om 
wed 


০০০ © © Oo جح‎ © ০০ 
ت‎ 
لس‎ 


بت 8 &8 8 ی0 ےج 8 7 ہے یو ہے oo‏ 


এ 
5 


61 
we 
ہم‎ 


nm ৩১ ৩ ৩ ® ©‏ بت 
ف۷ 
wo‏ 


০ ০ ০১ ৩১০০০১০০০০০ ০ 


৩ ০১ ৩০০০০ ০১০৩০৩৩০০০০ ৩০০ 


بج تچ می بث ي يی oo mn‏ 


“٤ 


مب 


(ee 


"+ (৪০০) apy paqoreg 
سس ات‎ 


٠< زر-ص001ت)‎ ৮0০৯০ 


se (QUY 29150) 420 


-- (০৪০) 0 


(07০78) 2599) 
“09540013932 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


554 


শু ৩৩০০ 
مہ‎ 90 © 2 
re 
اس‎ 


oo ০০ ০০ 8 @ 
a 
1 
پسم‎ 


৫১ ©‏ یھی ت 


| 


: 66ج 
jO 983৯৬‏ 


19408002 پ023‎ :9, হৃ90000 وووج‎ | 2 
রর | | 0و 9ح‎ ‘Aepingeg 3০0 301003 ৪998. 0:01%০917১0 


০ ৪ It 109 9 3 | — 090 St 10 9 হা 10 0 st 10 0 Zt تس‎ 2০ omd 
£ € এ 10 0 ৪7 | — 00 ০2 {0 0 st Fo o at fo 0 at ০4715 وہ‎ 
os ot [os st: مو 09 سم‎ |9 9 st |0 ৪ st {0 ۴ GI 7175 061 
9 8 of 10 9 95 3 =e 60% 19 0 ০৪ |0 9 6t |0 9 ٢۴۲ as 016 
oma joow ا‎ — 10 0 কহ {00 ০5 19 0 o 10 ০ ০6 pa | * 13016 
Pe 
it I 
مہ‎ ৪ of jo ভা 9 1 ےصح‎ oo a |০ ০ ছা jo ০ o [0 ০9 ot 711 onid 
০ ہو‎ হা | 0 8-9 | ০9 £ 109 0 +t 10 o wt [0 ০9 # pr | °° eyyyarey 
| : 
| 
0 ৪ جو‎ [0 9 ঠা শু oo |০ 0 ঠ্য Jo ৪ at 10 ০ ৪ ie و‎ ond 
SN 0 کے‎ ٢ --- ০ ০9 st |0 8 প্রা |0 0 7و‎ 19 ¥ 97 | “* ond 
os a |o0 ster ۰إ‎ — 9০9 gt {0 8 ৪ [0 ₹ Gt {0 8 OI ক در‎ onid 
"oN 0 0 9 اج‎ 09৪8 SI 0 8 OT کو" چرچ‎ ঠা ee ond 
6 ক 6t |0 0 0 — os 6t {0 0 0 {0 ৪ ০5 109 0 6 a ond 
‘ex | "৪ম — ‘SN পম SN ৪ وو ا‎ 16 
6 STS 10 হা ٢ | -- os or |0 8 OF |09 0 TH [109 ০0 ٢ «| es onid 
"SN 10০ 0৪ | = 0৪ 8 08 8 ০ 0৪ {0 #18 ا ے‎ ০170 
6 কা 6 lost — ১19০ চা footw form ort یق جوہ ہا ے‎ 
چرچ‎ : oF 6 سے‎ 0 F 6 ৪ SN = ‘SN سے‎ ০৫2 
ogo 10 ও হা - or mm {jo +1 |০ কফ. 0 ৪ 1 |” od 
‘SN je 6 6 سے‎ 0০ ৪ 6 ০ ৪ 6 ০06 oO হা 6 PR 818 
نے وی ئن‎ ক خ سید ےپ بے‎ ‘dos syjd wv sq d ‘es ty iz 
Bret তি مس ہسوسو‎ |e 
দির টিনার 1393 01 رد کت‎ 3 | 
টি 5 রি 1:88 


7119007 


60661 49088885914 


78811158815 


০1 
(7) ۳ 

(৯) 0০০: 

রি রি (iq) >رجہ‎ 
5 | (090) মা 


nde) s337R8d 


086 
(fey eq) 7ء‎ 
"(37904 44) مدبەدء‎ 


-* PIO (HQ_RULNpUtg ہم تد؟‎ |p) ০০ 
"* MON )۲۹ ٥ت0 ج501‎ “osrw0D) ০০1৮ 
"* PIO (স্যারের wpe sg) چم‎ 
SON :.)5190192116 چوزمہ رچچوجر سک‎ 
PIO 0৪০ 5014) مہ‎ > 

MIN ۳ئئ)‎ ‘sup. چا‎ 

PIO )٦٥تصص‎ ۸8) ‘samno0g) Appeg 
Man (ENy 95200) AppEr 

PIO (quvuresvygg) (0010) Appeg 


৮91৭ (qyavureseyg) (uinypay) App 


PIO (eu) (90,4) مہم‎ 
os MON (BUNCH) (94) APped 
"8102499 


0000م آۂ* 


".. হাজার 


*$959150 916991091 AA 


رانا 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


পা I ۔ح[2222-۔-2-3-32-3-32-۔.--.-.ت2.........32.3..332.32.۱٠.۰چےیچ‎ 


6} 


3 ৪০ 


© © ي 8 © بی و9 oo‏ 


9 0 ج٢‎ 9 ০ ٢ 
কড়া 9 7 ৪ 
0 হা 6 9 হা 9 
0 0 & 0 8 & 
"SN 090 O12 
2 9 7 99 I 
09 হা 9 ٦ 
OL হয 6 হা ہ‎ 
Ol #1 9 0 وج‎ 
"oN “SN 
"SN 0 9 Of 
¢ 9 It 0 0 6 
£1 st ٢ 8 8f 
0 ৪8 2 9 ₹% OL 


—_ 


ga 


aga 


oO ০৮ ৩ 8 8G © بت بج‎ © 


© بی ২9‏ نی 


৩১ Oo ০৮ © 


০৩১৩১ 


0 ٢ 
| 8 
0 و‎ 
0 65 
“SN 
9 £ 
rE I 
ot 2 


o 989 8 یب‎ 
09 


0০ ٢ 0 0 ٢ = এও! * IZ 9159 17৮] 
008 00 8 sites rie 0 چرم رصع دزن‎ 
0 0 ৪9 0 0 38s PRI OnIG : [70 prepun} 
0 O 08 0 0 8 انت‎ oid ٠ (mays) ک0‎ 

"SN "৪ وچوجودیوبن مر ات‎ ٠٠٦ (ফা? 55296 چ‎ আসো) ومھ‎ 
0 9 Tf 09 ft ۲ ০515 (4995 خحرق و۲‎ VAT) گ۱‎ 
0 ۲٢ 0 FIT weg ٠ 06 (১০০ | (ربمدہ مد رھڑاو‎ [MOT 
0 Si £ 0 FITZ نے‎ OFT 8৪০ youd 
0 + 9 0 وج‎ 007 | * ৪335৭ | 4" 2335 چردہ‎ 

8665 

oN "ON ae dale ond efeagt) 

"SN چرچ‎ 08017 OnE مہ‎ 
0 0 OI 9 9 OF 9৮ 1 OG ref{ang 
و ٢و 0 و‎ 0 Ot 0০719 040 ০০১১৫ 
0 ৪ 6 9৪ 6 PRT’ 5৪758 وہہ‎ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


556 


,0 গঙ্গা |হ গাগা Jo 9 9 — 10 Bt9T |0 ₹ OT JO ₹ OT JO ₹ OF es رق‎ م48٥‎ 
9 ost | ¢ ot fo "٦٢٢ — [০9 0 ঠা Jo ৪ o 10 ৪ تو‎ foes ہو‎ ০ ১১০১৭ 
090 St fo 0 21 09 হ 4 سم‎ 0 ৪ 4t 10 8 Zt |0 0 Zt fo ৪ و٢‎ 8*0. (4) و_یسچەدو‎ ٠ (261800) TUON 
06 st |s 9 ہو‎ 10 ator — {00 ঠা |o stor |0 ৪ ot fo ভা 97 یس کی‎ (a) andjnjoy 
0৪ St 114 SI OT 0 ۃ‎ Zt a 109 ৪ ٢ 9০0 Zt 0 2 0 9 LI 7 pe (q) indnaysy خر‎ 
0 ৪ of 16 দ st [0 9 81 سے‎ । 9 0 م٢‎ |0 ৪ St |0 0 st |0 9 ۲ 7 oe (q) wmyuyg | -- (umypeul) 1۹۰-223717 
0 797 |s হা 6t | 0 OT gt —~ ۳ ৪ St 10 ৪ st |0 9 قی‎ fo ৪ st من‎ (a) 4501030 
9 079 16 ক 6T |09 ৪ ۲ os | 0 9 6 109 0 6 109 8 Bt | 0 O ٢ ১:75) (থু) mmdnugyy A 
0 Ot ZI 2 ক 61 10 F OZ — ۳ 0 1% %|0 0 وو‎ 19 0 ০5 ]٦ 0 0৪ 02010 (q) vinqueg ٠ (aug) 1985779 
ee ۱ ٰ ae —{pjo uvury) song 
9 9 و 0 اض‎ - 10 5₹ ৪ 0 কাঠ 0 8 0 Sz (dq) ৩০০১০ 
0 #12 রঃ 01 2 9 হ ৪ — 10 9 8 00 8 oF 8 00 9 و سے‎ (q) +2000001614 
: ৪ ড় ৪ 0.0 8 سے‎ eH ৪৭ শি 008 7 ডি (q) sinyqueg ٠٠ (৯৪৪০০) 3919 
i ; ‪ —(sny) ۸35 
9 ore 19 9 6 9 6 6 = 10 OF 6 08 6 0 06 0 O16 ve ee বে) +0418: 
9 6 8 7 076 9 9٥ -- 10 ٤6 0 06 0 816 0 ٥ ہی‎ (a) ۶000051۸ 
0 O18 lo OI 6 ৪ 6 6 _ 9 এ OI 0 6 0০৪ 6 0 0 6 7, (এ) vinqueg | -- (953০০) چرم‎ 
০ 718 16 وو‎ 0 SI ৪ - 0 #16 0 316 0 یج‎ 10 16 রি সত (a) ndimoy 
9 ٤6 0 16 9 SE 6 - ۱٥ ot 0 #16 0 0 OF |0 0 OL et (q) mndnuys A 
9 3 6 2 8 ০010 ৪ OT — مہ‎ |0 0 ot {0 0 ot {0 ০0 ot eo ake (aq) sinqueg | -- (MNP sul) 71.٣ 
9 F 6 oo ঢা 09 ৪ ۲ — oF হয 00m {0 ছু fo ₹ It 2 (a) 2701070 
0 F 6 এড Ut [05 ٦٢ _ 10 ৪ চা |o ঢা Jo 8-1 fo ৪ ۴ ah a (a) mndnuysy 
0 316 9. 0.7 |0 ٢ — جج ۱8 ہا‎ fos u josu loen 0ج-‎ 2 ٠ (q) Bungay 6 ٠ (aug) [৪79 
—(pjo ভেদ) 50 
| "22490 
‘d ৬ چو۔‎ a! نے‎ ‘wa ٤ چ۔‎ ‘By | ج۔ ؿيؿ۔‎ ey | ‘d se ‘sy | তে -se ‘sy { ‘d ৪ چو۔‎ | ৫ چو" ٭-‎ 
ّ | -______ مت۱٣س-_..‎ 
7 : ZI 7 
سس کس ےر ا پرمعوسوود‎ এ ues ta ae কুটি 1 “JYTEUI ভন JO 9০০৪ زؤگر*‎ ۲۲۲0101100100 
نمور سے‎ ু —poyep :580217%9 UO 301005 syoom 103300 : 4 


"9961 পিএ গা চা aa oO ১, পন 


557 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


সি ০৩৩৩৩০০৩১৩০ oO © © © 


eo © 


০0 ৩০ ০9‏ تہ 
ra‏ 


+ 60 © 63 
টে 
۳ 


It $f 
8 3st 
ot bf 
57 


০০ ০১ ৩ ৩৭ 


BP Oo N جج‎ 


০১০০ ৮৮ © © ৩৩০ N ৩১ 


It 


oF بم‎ YY جح‎ WD 


OF 


-$T 


ST 


0 50 
06 TE 
0 8 OF 
0 8 OL 
6 0 ٢ 
08 If 
0 9 ٢ 


“SN 
0 F ZI 
6 ٥ ٢ 
0 GS 8f 


0 3 SI 
یھ‎ 
0 و‎ OI 
০ ے‎ ٢ 
০ ০0 ۲×چ‎ 
০ 3 a 
0 ৪ 6I 
0 9 ৪] 


0 6 FTI 
0 0 ٢ 
0 9 ٢ 


0 0 OL 
‘oN 
‘SN 
‘SN 

69 ٢ 

0 8 Tf 

0 0 ٢۲ 


8 و 8 868 تی ৩০১০১‏ 


6 0 ٢۲ 
0 8 ও 
নর *5 


oOo oc ہج‎ ০ ৩০ ০০৩০০ 


3 
ات‎ 
OT 
Lt 
81 
91 
6 
$I GI 


oo ০১৩০০৩০০৩০০ 


SI PE 
0 ۲ 
‘SN 


oo oc 8 8 8 8 © 


91 
ol 
97 
91 
Lt 
rm | 
SI St 
6 ٢ 


oO ০১ © © @ تج‎ 


8 Ft 
0 ۲ 
“SH 


৮০ & @‏ بت 


০০৮০০৩০৩০৫১‏ مت ت 


awn oan ০০ ০০ 
سم +-سم‎ 


eo © 


2 
Lat 
95 


* 


8 ۶ٹف 
١‏ ٹٹائئشند 
25114010184 
17 98311137 
Indjn joy‏ 
mdnuyy A‏ 
smyreq‏ 


704110101021۸ 
১১৯ (/১3:৪ 
৪008611115২ 


3110151091 


(dq) +04230 
(4) 4007184 


جات 


7 ০০০০৫ 


0ت (5۸80010) و 


(508 د٥۲ (و‎ PHD 
(Hq ফ০চ12) ور‎ 
(Tews Trey) msepy 


(214 পভ) nse 
(৮41) ৪০০4 


0০৪০০০০) মুলত 
—(sny) 201 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 80, 1956 


558. 


9 F SOT 16 


re a জনি ee eg ee ee কি ০ |, ہے تچ‎ 2 


SE SOT 


9961 4equieaoy 


تب 


শ © 


Zit 


0 SIT 


৪ £ ৪ 


9) 02 


9ء 


ea হি 


BS 


07 


৩৩০৩ 


—pajep ‘Aepinzeg UO Burpus syeom 00110 


21০৮০০ .چپ‎ NV q 


٠٠‏ ادص نزو 


501011011191 
wingueg | °° 


indnuys 4 


12231017117: 


٦ئ‏ لا اسر 


281 
0ٔ 


(৭) 108011514 


4 01100801514 


১০৫৯, ۱١ 


231101071954 


1ں ۶اک 
sinqurg‏ 


| ره سسوورچوو-‎ JO aut 


(rgesig) Ww] SRS 


٠وہ‎ YS 
چو‎ PIVEN 
220 880 
0 07507 
"nO 


-* moped ط13 ہہ‎ Plog Presa 


“spaes 30 


(o[egng “‘peurpysun) ج1‎ 
(opegng ০০85) ٭‎ ۶10 
(oyeygug) ০০0 

৭1275 2৬5 IPH‏ کغنەجہیرو۔ 


* (zeqig) এন 7+12ء+-+‎ 


May (1753 -50501) £ 70ء‎ 
** DIO (পাত এ-১০) 89৯50 


“0100০ ০১৫৪ 


11100 00011 ک۸" 


:89915৫ 8184 


০১9 


30, 1956 


4 
a 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 


জপ SE আর eee‏ سام 
পাশা‏ 
0 


o o 8 بث‎ 


৩ ৩০ ©‏ ت 


on 90 wa 


et &T 


০১০০০ © 


oO © 


o oOo m = 
٠ 


ہم یھ & © © ¢ ০৩০‏ 


© © ہت بت 
ono ww wi‏ 
৩০‏ 


0 F ٢ 


eg 


Soe ০ ০৩ oO ০ ০ ০ 


oOo ০০০ 


9) Oo ৩০ © © 2 © & 
On 
م‎ 


oO ৩১ ww শর 
৪০ 


0 OST 


“SN 


"SN 


Oo @ ০০ ০১ یی‎ ৩ یی‎ © 


oOo ৫১ بت یہ‎ 


& ئن بج © © جب oO ৩১‏ 
ت0 
wi‏ 


wi‏ تی تہ 
০০‏ 


"SN 
8 gf 


‘oN 


0 27 02 7? রি BsQopIsad 
ost os tf টা +00501 
0 0 se 0 0 ৮9 7 50041810181۸ 
090 09 0 0 ০09 = wnyqueg 
09 ۲ می‎ 0 Bt ۰ এ ان یئ‎ 
0ً 0 IL 6 ٦ = 8887 
0 + #1 و‎ 0 و٢‎ am 2000111914 
0 O و"‎ 0 O و٤‎ এও vIn 1یا‎ 
0 কু I و‎ Ft এ ۱ 
0 غ‎ & 9 ৮ 8 টি এ 0٤ 
608 00 8 ٠ OIG 
0 0 &t 0 0 ۲چ‎ wag ٠٠ (নু) Seq 
9 0 SBI {0 O SBI 7 : ا ند‎ 
0 0 087 19 O ٢ hq | * wo_ceg 
“ON وج‎ ٤ ee a 5 گ0‎ 
0 8 SI 0 0 ٢ سان‎ ‘i 2000000 
)م*‎ 
-BUl 
چ‎ 
“সে 
FT 
yo uty 
00০ 06 0 O FS 2 an ٠٠ (১৬০০1০125১০ 


qe পাপা পাপা পপ eee 


(Tes প0য 0০০) ০০,9৩1 


= a os msog 


a (৩0৪০) 400 


a (4iPA) 8 


i ayas 09০৭৪ 
ڈنو‎ PIS 780") 
(Poses 42.44) HOD 
(09115 39,44) 05 
“USES PUD ৮0520 


0 (50৮08) 5 
سن‎ / 


Bue day,‏ دردرکڑو ع >ودیت 


GIGS ৪ 37579 18001 30و3‎ 
“wop صاع‎ এল 9 


mens Apptg‏ وو 


HV‏ یہي 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


৪ ج٢‎ 0 8 If i 2৮ 03 ٦ ۰ (817) جع‎ 


660 


> 69 হা 19 ٤ ٤٢ 0 9 ٢ م سد‎ gs কা 0 0 FT 0 
7 0 কা হা 6 হা ٢ 09৪ ی٢ سد‎ 0 8 ST 0 8 ٭٢‎ 0 ৪ St 0 8 ৫ মহ کچھ‎ ٠ eredyyurpy | ٠ دا‎ (Areuyppso) Sanyq 
। (21০59) ৪০2 
و‎ #1 SI ٠ 0 ْ #1 سے‎ 0৪8 FI 0 ভাড়া 0 তা কা 0 হা ক ০ ts হাতিম |" (pou. ০৪৪০০) 99 যু 
Oo চাকা و‎ #1 97 0 F OI সস 0 8 OL 0 F OL 0 0 9٢ 0 Ff 91 “i se 0089761171 
G 8 SI 9 9 و‎ 09 ۲ ٢ — 0 হা ST © হা St 0 0 97 0 9 OL ps ٠ 045018 
0 O এও ےج‎ ৫ Zi 0 3 سد 1ھ‎ 0 4 00 Ut 0 0 ھ٢‎ 0 8 LI se ০ azodeaprg | *- (0 9৪৩০০) ওপেন 
06707 6 F 6t 9 ۴۲ ৪ _— 0 0 8۲ ج0‎ 09 ۲ 0 0 61 রি লা mdseivyy | ** چمکمسں‎ “umyp.m) ary 
09 ٤ ٢ 9 ও ZI 9 তা 9 — 0 হা 97 0 41 OL 0 31 91 9৪9 ٠ 2 +40018 ٠ (তান ۲ ‘urarpeul) زم‎ × 
0 ٭٤‎ 21 9 I ۵ص‎ 9 & 5 স্ 0 9 0 0 8 062 0 8 ০0৪ 0 8 ০৪ ٠ S asodwupiyg | °° (৭0৮ ‘umypeul) eon 
0 হা ৪ 9 >٤ 8 0 2 8 سے‎ 0 F 2 08 ١ 0 8 8 0 ٭‎ ١ = + یئ تا‎ 1 
و‎ ক এ 6ن و‎ 0 8 ۴٤ _ 0 8 6! 0 8 61 0 8 61 0 8 "٢ 9 27 mda 
0 OT 6 6 ₹ তে |0 9 ٢8 — 0 0 1 08 8 0 8 15 0 8 IZ ui enodeupinyy ۲٣٠٠ -*  (peseyig ‘aug) arg 
08 8, |9 ٤ 0 aI 6 = 0% 6 09 31 6 0 9 ٢ 9০ ٢ ; (q) reseuey 
o> 6 197 or !0 ٭‎ ٢ - 0 0 OF 0 0 ٢ 0 ক OF 0 ক OL 7 [৬50 
৪ It 6 (0 8 6 — 0 8 6 0 8 6 0 8 6 9৪ 6 ٠ ৮ و ری‎ | *- ০83০০) <ppeg 
606 1৪ 9 OF ٥ L ٢ -- 0۴ OT 0 8 OT 9৪ oat 0 ٭‎ ٢ ۰ : (q) +90019 | 
0 O16 19 SI OL 0 3 ٣ সস 09 হা OT 0 0 I 0 0 It 0 SI It র্‌ ais 1৩৩0 
0 0 6 09 8 07 0 এ OF সপ Qo ۴ OT 0 F 0٦ ٭*٭ و‎ OT 0 8 OT 7 টি eodeuprg | *" جک‎ (umipeu) Apped 
ge TN = "৪" ‘ON ৪" "SN . ٠ (a) তা | 
২ 3৪: গাম - ৪" "SN ‘oN ‘SN র্‌ এ “> 1৪1) 
oso. SN "SN سے‎ "oN برع"‎ SN پر-ع-‎ ‘pul tag | ৭". quodvupryl | *" = (aay) Appeg 
s -579249) 
‘d -s ‘sy | ‘d ‘wv ‘sy ‘d ‘8 ‘sy سوج‎ ‘sy [-d -e ‘em jd ‘ew چو۔‎ jd “8 ‘sg ‘dv. “3H 
সিট টি گے‎ . | উস ০০০ A পপ 
'ক্8 ہے‎ ۱ 79 “mer 01 ون‎ 
جج ےت‎ aan: ود و و ا یت تی اس یی‎ 81 বর না نٹ نے‎ 
: 7 : —pyvup ‘Aepimzeg 0০ Buypus sysem 5010331163 ۱ 
9961 49৭84950148 “3 ٹر رو۱:* 040ئ0‎ 91855910187 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


561 


0 


0০০৩১৩০০৩০৩ 


CO o Ce یں بح 8&6 جج‎ 2 © & 6 8 


a 
اسم‎ 


০ আআ ও ¢ 


1٤ 
él 


oO بت ہبہ‎ ৩১ بت‎ 2 ০০ ৩ শা 


90 st ৪৭ 
س‎ 


8 


Or 


om HOMO ৫ 69 ৩ ৩ ২০ ০ GS ৮2 


© © © 9 


০১০৮১ ০৩১ o ০ & ৩৩০ 


eo © OC ےی‎ ০৩০০ 


© & ھ بت 


iss 


۲ 


or 
tr 


o جي‎ 8 © 


oo ০০০ ০৩০০৮ ي‎ 


eo o 2 ® 
a 
لس‎ 


چرچ 


© می ৩৩০০‏ © تب 
৫১‏ 
سم 


৩০৩০০ 


সপ... রা... 


eo ০৯ ০১০৩১০৩০০৩০ 


0 
0 
0 


0 6 


“SN 
& 6 
8 Ol 
0 ff 


© ےت 8 oO‏ 
ت 
لیڈ 
N‏ 


০০০০ 89 82 ০১০ بج‎ 
oO 
بت‎ 
- 


Oo ৩০৩০৩০০০০০৩ ৩০ ৩১ 8 8 


০‏ پچ بی بت 
۵ ہی 7 o‏ 


eo تھے بے ر٭*٭ بت‎ © 90 ৩৯ 


0 
Tt 


খন 


-* | (জব) 5০ গা) 


(17592) 0160 


It مرەووو.‎ TOTO 


** چوممدومی.-۔‎ ঘতাছ0 


“sandy 


(815) 50০০ 
(07029) 18۴ 
(879) এনএ 
পেন) 2056 
(18009) 05541) 


5 ز(و6) 
PHA‏ )319( 
0۰5۴+ )19025( 


রী (51৭) 37557 


se‏ رف 


(Areuypso) 30+71 
"(saspnd nyds) جک ُا‎ 


টি (31৭) [suse yy 
2 (Tears) 7552) 


ees‏ ےےھْ۔ 


(715) 5 


চু 


جھھے جا مہو 


a 


PND METS পপ ০ ০৭০০৫ ও সস dls مھ لیا‎ পাইপ یہ‎ ۷7 airs 


کے শা ৩১ সস Seis‏ کی پٹ উপরি‏ مہ 


PPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


v 


1 


০০০ 


ST 


S Of শা 0 8 OF 8 8 OF 10 8 0 و‎ 8 Ot ৩) ce ۱ ০০ তন্ন ٠٠ (papez3un) 28০ 06 


8 ٢آ‎ 

go9 0 9 093 __ ~~ o 0 9 0 6 9 80 9 0 0 9 نم‎ +510٤ 

9 9 ৪ 0 § os. — 00 8 | 8 09 9 £ ০. 0 ৪ oot | °° aiodiwupyg | "- ۰ (papvazun) 20ھ‎ ueH 
"s6BZ 
0 F مو‎ 0 sit 0 1 — 090 sex [0 09 Off | 0 0 ہج‎ | 6 0 SIT |-puraag | -- (ad) [৮75০ | -- এট কৃতি 
0 কহ হা 6 হাত — 0 0 ۹ 0 0 3 0 8 & 9৪ یج‎ oor} °° mdfereyy ٠ وی‎ 0080000 
(847) ور صررہ:‎ 
0 F কক رو و‎ ۴۲۲ _ 9৪ It 0 ٥٢ ج٢‎ 0 0 ٢ 0 0 ٢ ই (a) وورسجچرد‎ ٠٠ (0558) 000صصو‎ 
9 59 ط8‎ 8 এ 2 & a Go 8" & 0 09 ও 0 ۶ ও o 0 9 00 جو‎ imdseivyy ۲ (mddex) 3309040 
“(ysesf) হন 
99 ও 0 8 0 £ এ 09 ৪ 4 0 0 و‎ 0 0 9 0০ ৪ 8 7 2 yiesequey | -- "٠ - جوم‎ 
0 FI F 2دت ناد 2 ¢ 00 و 0 0 9 0 0 9 00 — ٹوو روا‎ ۱ 

0 ¢ ¢ 6s 9 ۴ — 0 0 8 0 8 F 0 0 ۴ 0 9 ۴ "pa isg ۰٠ پچت+قہ×>٭‎ | °° urndumg ہا‎ 
"SN 9 8۲ چا‎ 00 et 0 0 06 "SN ‘ON OOr | °° mdZvieqy | ** 7 ৮০১৪০১18310, 

231 Il 61 tL 6 সস 08 হহ 0 0 جج‎ 0 0 ৫5 00 & 7 ১১১১৮৬৬১৫৮৭ 

"ON 6 1 9 جج 0 0 & 0 0 — کے‎ 0 0 & 0 8 2৪ ie ০ 82037177 
0 2 LE 07 61 8 8 — 0 0 & 00 6ج‎ 0 0 & 0 0 & 7 es suoduupr ٠٠ (৮3০75) ০799বও 

ৃ ৪৭ SN پرو عیب‎ SN پر2"‎ S°N ٠ ٠3030۴7 
i "SN 0 6 سیت‎ 0 0 6 "SN "SN "SN = كت‎ alodeupiyy ٠ “2 (70) ےوہ‎ 

| 0 ৪2 সস 09 0 এ 0 0 ات‎ "SN. "aN i 7 mdsereyy 

we ; SN 58 = ‘SN اض‎ “SN “SN 35 is 0 

| 


৪৯: ‘SN سے‎ ৪ "SN ‘SN ‘SN ‘pul zag |" elodeaprg | °° 11 
: : a دامردوردد-‎ A pun od 
‘do چہے۔ ےہ‎ do wiseq id w ey | ‘we sy id پچ‎ eq j-d wv ؿ' | چچو۔‎ ৬ sy jd -e ‘sy 


EE TE ক a | a a SR GEE আপ 0 ৩ যে RE শালি (আউল আল سے کک ےاج کے چھھے چہ‎ ৩ een দিন - 


৪৩০, 38945 6 1 22 15 :‏ | لیت 
শর | aco [OO eco দিব‏ 206050307 
‘depimyeg 20 8৪5508০৪০৩১ হ01২291109) : |‏ رز .ںہ ٦‏ 2 
এলি‏ 
نے রি ? : | যিকর শত‏ کت ০১০১০‏ 


2৫361 49058395014 ৫6065208887 "seaiud ۱0۵۸ 


1১151510710 THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


"SBRI0A8 
$,4300T1 


664 


€ OT 6 
0 sl ۶ 


৩১৩০৩‏ © بت 
wt এ mM‏ ہب ০১‏ 
th‏ 


18411 


JaquigauN ৃ 
jO ھی رن‎ 


১৩১০ ধু 


ছু 
8٤ 
ST 
۴ 


پم HR‏ بت 


=) 
2 
۶8 ৭ 


টির হা যা রর নর و‎ 


PT 


“296 ۲ 39081498014 


. کے‎ me 0 ۱ے‎ রি ور $ ہے‎ i Pa 000 রি ےرس‎ টিটি a, نے‎ ‘ ow ae 


۴ 

৪ ৮? 
۲٢۲ 1 
0 


9 9 6 


10 কাকা 


را مر شا جج 
۱1100[76]ک 


91 
1 


Oo ©‏ تی بت 
০০০১৩‏ 
ক‏ 
اسم 


oOo ০ ০৯ ৩১ 
o بت‎ 9) © © 
xs ن8 © ي‎ 


81 
۴۲ 
or 
FI 


পে ©‏ میم تب 
oO 8° 8 &‏ 


০ 
© 
a এ 


5৪ 
وو‎ 


eo Of © ০০৩ 
eo ০০90) & © 
2 


যু 
st 
91 
۶ 


© 82 یھ تہ 
بج 8 oO oO‏ 


শু 
এ 
নব اھ‎ 


Oo ০0 2 ©‏ ہ 


eC ہہ‎ ০০ ৩৯০১ 
uf 
ہج‎ 2 Fa ٭‎ 


oO ৩০ ০০ 8 © 


ہم ০০‏ & یھ ت 
اٹ 


pur ان‎ 

“par 33g | * 
“pid Jag | 7 
০ 
: 0٢ 0 

٠‏ رس ںہ- 


oa 
—payep ‘Aeprnjeg ০ 3011003 ৪স০৯১৬ 009۰ 


279০০ HAOdVNGIK 


---_ 811 


0 a f= 

nen এরা SS fe | EE TT NN مس ہچ ہچچجیچ چو ژ کے‎ টি সা 
as 
-- ٦ 


077 t 


"ই رجہ مدتجچھو‎ JO oUTEN 


si (28"3) 0 
(511) 6 
{ 


کر روجہبروبووو جح 


(Qesrep আহা) one‏ ٭٭ 


ا سی 


0:7۴ 310رہ 


Preyenyy‏ 110 نت 


8০72০1502৮০ TO 


43০৪ Appeg 


++ পম) 


۲00101100100 وگ“ 


۲٦ل‏ زؤرزاں تر 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, ডে GUST 380. 19.6 نا‎ 


کو مت জাই Sat vs‏ سوسويسے ہما 5م alle‏ نہ erie‏ موم iia ge‏ ماد چا" ও শি সি পপ পপ উপর এসপির দপ্তর‏ سے ہمت وا ومک وا Bet‏ حم امام 
8 : نس সিলসিলা‏ 


: 
| 
٦ | 


eo 2 © @ © ® 
| 
fF مت‎ © © ০ ০0 | 
ey 
سم ب<ھۓ ہم‎ nv পা 
رج‎ 
بت‎ © 8&8 S&S ھٌھج.۰٠٥ي‎ 
تػ۔ مت‎ © © © » 
۳'۳ ক 
ہم‎ পটে ہم ہس‎ উড oH 
پچ‎ 5s يك © & بج‎ 
مت‎ ۶ 
بج‎ & 80 o 
سم پیم ہم پسم‎ ৬ ای‎ 
৪ দু 
7 ঞ 7-۰ oP, ےہ‎ | oh 
نے‎ a a پپ‎ oe স্পা 
ক 


ose 
s ¢ 


eg # 5 
71] 
۱ ۱ 

: 

৩. ড্র এ 
fe Ss 2 


॥ AUGUST 30, 1056 ۴ 


7۹ 
I 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETT 


566 


س۲ ame tnemin aes pn en nd‏ دم+ممسحسوسجفچجیمفکوفپویرفکمسرھیراماموجویکوسووپجافإیوڈناووممسوافممومسووس]سسپس‫سپومسسسیسجچپوؤُوووستجٗہورنکوکفضپیوچپوسجصجبویکیتیافوجپجدومجسہحمسیممووبفووکوصکححپپصصصدحمسسّسىِٰا 


Qo & 


5961 AequisacH 


St 66 
| +t 


و 0 
ای 


© 
te‏ 
بح 
اسم 


© © ي © © GC ০০‏ تہ 
oo‏ 
eal‏ 


১১০০০ & © 
wit 
اسم‎ 
اسم‎ 


"23294 | 


8,WqjUOW 75৮] 


Oo ৩ Oo ৩০৫০৩‏ ہب 
o‏ 


০ ০০০ ০ ٭‎ 
৫ 
- 


১ 
৫ 
اسم‎ 
vo 


~ 
a 
oh 
پم‎ 


"325০৯ 
0اگ‎ 


oo ০১০৩০০৯০০০০ 


96 


Qo بت‎ 


oO جب‎ 


تج ج٥‏ ب8 & بث یی &8 ০৩০‏ 


© ٹ۵ 
শে‏ ت 


© 
০ 


oo oc ৭১ ৩০ ৩১০০৩ 
৩০০ CO ৩ +t 0৩০ ۵0ص‎ 


19 Go 0٣ یج‎ 
St 0 O ٢۲ 
Lt 6 O ٢ 
St 0 0 ٢ 
61 0 0 61 
LE 09 8st 
1 0৪ 61 
6 0 0 68 
61 09০ @ 
15 0 8 16 
1 0 915 
95 0 8 یو‎ 
OF 0 0 O8 
پر‎ 0 0 6 
tt ০0 ٣ 
0 ট 5 Of 
11 0 F ভা 
tl 0 0 TI 
1 0 8 آ‎ 
61 0 ৪ Tt 
ও ‘$y 
829 


Wel 


tt শা tn 


—pojyep ‘Aepmmyeg 0ت‎ 2:1][003 5৩১৬ 3০০70) 


۔ 


এ. 


+۹9 


= 


سیق 


141 


"০81 
মা Wosedrer 


১১115510188 
"> (80181 
۱فز‎ 
renpmdyy 
"* ) ۶: 
٭--‎ pmsdnyd 
>۳ 
"> )2۶ہ‎ 
۰٭‎ 2061 


) 61617101066 
(a) nsdn 
(dq) 81۶17180085 
(এ) 1:51 
(dq) ভগ qnureg 
(dq) 1 


“Za ICU 9৭) JO তা 


(1১১১০০১১০০২ ১০৯০৪ sends 

(ওম 8080 

({aeseyey ) ৪০750 
‘oad 


2s ee 


oa ** (ওযা 2160 nse 
. cabo—<reuppr9) aan 
(sand mds) sq 


= (Side gq—osreog) sory 

7 (s0s8 ¢— Cn pay) sory 

= (Urepeypndg—daMIpsay) ০০ 

٠ - ریو‌سملپٗرممو)‎ sory 
ا ہیں‎ 

= (sisevq—oa,reo)) Appeg 

9৮ (909৮ যা) {ppeg 


++ (arepeypnd—umnypey) Apped 


= (eran N—oupy) Apped 
2990 


00010100 اوگ۸ * 


"sOdlid ء۱٥۵۸‎ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


568 


০৩০০ আপ تحت تد‎ 


دا ری سی مض سای 
٦‏ 


"996۲ sequieaon 


790 


— ৪ “Ni SN سید‎ ‘SN of ‘sur ‘SN rf نا سی ا‎ 
৮ oN gN — چرج-‎ ‘SN "SN SN : চকু 2 
"কু টি چو‎ fF হ এ হা ہی چو‎ ৪ چو‎ [0 ৪ ওত. 09 0 ঠ 19 0 z ٤ - چُروروچووںر‎ / 
oO 792 6 ۶ 46 EE 92 چو 8 0 22 8 10 242 00 92 0 سے‎ ০৮4 ৬৮৬০৬০১০০৪১ ** (agg) siuny 
7 پرودد*‎ | 
— 09 8 “Or টি - 0 ৪ 0 * 6 0 0 ot |0 0 Ot “ ٠< preqrexen -- 1 (aug) Wey 
ie SN ۔.‎ SN — oN ‘SN ON SN 2 017۴ ےت‎ (৯৪৮০০) چوس‎ 
09 STR gx 1 ‘SN = oN ‘SN چرچ‎ "৪ম « ‘+ یی‎ 
ot or 10 ৪ ot fo ore -- ZI ৪ 0 8 6 0 0 or 10 হ or 2: “৮. BIEayeR ٠ (৯৮০০) چڈوئدہ‎ 
চে و‎ Ff ٢ و‎ ZI 6 می‎ "SN 0 8 6 0 0 OL "SN 7 -< ৮৬০ 1১০৬1 
সপ oN 0 0 OL — SN 0 0 ০07 ‘SN 7 پرچ۔‎ রা “+ چرچ رروورع‎ ক 
0৪ £ 6 &I ٤ Il 6 — ৪ ৪ 0 8 6 09 ক₹ or ١٦ ৪ ہو‎ i *- [নস 
09 ₹চ 0 ہہ‎ IF ۶ OL — 0 6 Oo 0 or 109 8 of |0 ৪ ft ৬ ٠-٠ چرو ججھدع‎ ٠۴ (ummypaut) "دم‎ 
مم‎ - "SN 8 ٢ —~ ON 9৪ OI ‘SN "SN 7٠ "+ LWeQTVxeN 
os “oN 00 — ‘SN oo ٢ ‘oN ‘SN 2 ٠ چرم“ رچھورہ‎ (aug) azo; ue 
ae 00 at "SN چرچ" ہے‎ SN "SN “SN রঃ -- yreqrexen 
7٦۰ 9৪ গা تع ہل در و‎ ৪ ۲ج 0[ یر8‎ ১১০১৭ (aug) چچنجچمبوں‎ 
09 হ st [3 € কয :0 8 &I سے‎ ৪ হয 10 0 یھ‎ |0 ৪ st |e ৪ কা " ** [নত 
০9 a {ow ہو‎ ۶ হা et? سے‎ ost 19 ৪ গা {oo 10 ৪ #t ‘PH > چرہ چرھورع‎ ৮" (aug) তা) 
i ” “۸ کے‎ 
ণ رو‎ ঘ ৪0 
| 
d ws "চু d چےی۔ ے۔‎ 1 ‘do -s ‘sy | তু ৪ sy | 06 "তু | de-w ‘sy 105 csy jcd w ey 
ہے‎ +7 চীনারা 015 ঘা "01 09 
393018105۸0 و“ ۱ س ید ھ7 یك(‎ 333001 oj} JO 907৮৭ * گر‎ ۲۲۳۱۱000 
go রাত مم‎ ٤ —paup 859 uo Bujpua ৪99, ০০72০2790 


-$83130 8٥9۵09۱1۸ 


569 


E, AUGUST 30, 6 


٠ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE OALCUTTA ۷ 


Oo HM‏ یہ Oo‏ ہ 
শে‏ 
a‏ 
اسم 


ت 


& تہ 


০৮৩০০‏ ي © بت 


শ ৩ 


© می 


‘ON 
"ON 
8 ھ1٢‎ 
8 ٤ 
‘SN 
SN 
8 61 
এ 6 


"pe7z0d 31 JON ee 


٤ 
0909 ৮2519 0 2 


‘SN 
0 0 -&f 


tT 
07 
21 
tI 
PL 
ts 


oOo ৩০ 8 & © 
oo @ سے‎ ® ® 


oO یھ‎ C&O & جج‎ © 


"ON 
8 IT 


آ1 
ot‏ 
ot‏ 


০০ وہ‎ % ০ শু 
33 x 


‘SN 
‘SN 
Qo ٢ 
$ LT 
"SN 
"SN 
8 6 
6٤ 6 


DK + 
00. 
¢ * 
تیب‎ oe 
"DH =e 
سب نف‎ 
as en 
«sé -« 
ہب بت‎ 
68 ee 
*PK ہے‎ 
رب بل‎ 

¢ 
تب‎ os 
€e ক 
نک‎ ve 
“a aw 
sé 2 
"DH es 


تاج ئن +" 


চি, 


ক কি 


01 
2104015 
یبووہ 
00 
৪৫১০৫‏ 
یہ 
01 


٣ج03٥‏ 810300 نل 


swag 
7 ۸0 
iy ‘+ aeqqeo 
0০9৪ 48011291550) 0984;0g 
QB )301133)٣780( کے موہ‎ 


A Pun OWT‏ د5مرمورد- 


ats ۱ (381800) SIZ0g 
= (9৬০০) peyodm 7 
(UINTPOaL) [৩০ وف‎ ১৪৪০ ৯: | 


** (Mapped) 3(7 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


— -صو‎ রর eee ee ee =< ے۔‎ 


"SN 0 G OFT 


ت 
& 
2 
اس 


৪ 


dws sy ds ‘sq id " توع۔‎ 


رک 
JIQUICAO Ay‏ 
jo aReray‏ 


38۳۴۳ ۱ ১১:১0 
11با یر وو رج سن بی‎ 


“5961 49981168014 


4396 


—pojep ‘<Aupinjeg uo 207003 sysI0m 009-010) 


9৪‏ پر چ۔ 


It os 0 9 و‎ 


0 GT 


om 
eo 


051 


W161 mat 


“SAL 
‘oN 


8 52 


শু 
ঙ 


Or Tt 


 pprUuor—O NT TAA CAVA 


qorg 


OFT 
27001017 


BIBER 


sSuypafreq‏ .تک 


"٦35901 oy} Jo ওত থু 


& $০0, 05528) ০০৯ ھ8٤‎ 
5 ২00) [OOM ےھ‎ 
“eT 15 


٠ (৯৮০০) ০5 


(Sup ৪ 599৪ ےج‎ Ppt) opepag 
(এ ٭‎ 1008 ۲ 0197-5) 4১০০ 
৮7770 YR 


€হূ০ “pul ع۴‎ 91512 ৯) ک‎ 
‘yoo pup days 


ات 
SITU‏ )#00( 


‘spRpOld AWK PO AK 


(q eptin) 32a wa 
"O03 


"এব হা়া0 


— 


"$93130 91659108414 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALQUTTA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 
٠ 


we (০ 
থে 
4, od 
দলা wd 
nN 
Q 
® i) 
89 
লে 1ج‎ 
খে 
৬৯ 
7 সা 
ee 
ip. | 
4 
© 
ঢু تب‎ 
7 8 
টে 
7) © 
রদ 5 
১ _euamenenenatienemmmadined 
= 
142 
۶ ৮১ 
৩২ 
© 
a 2 
2 
7 8 
2 
লা 
wot 3 
a 
ta 
rt 
7 
مم‎ a 
cy o 
fe 2 
fed 0 


16, 


Jrange 


مس TS‏ ہے ۔ পপ‏ 


51187071070. 


Chirota 


571 


سی ے جم نس سی ০০ এসি‏ 


ZETTE, AUGUST 90, 1956 


{ 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE OALCUTT: GA 


679. 


6L2 00 و‎ 9 6 9 — 0 হা 9 و‎ #19 0৪ 9 10 ৯ 9 oor | *- od 
: سے‎ ৪ پرچ-‎ SN | ‘SN ۶+ os 6 
রঃ 5 سے‎ ৪ "SN چرع‎ ৪” ia 20 چرچوںم ٭-‎ ; 
: se : পম “SN چر:ع- پر ج‎ 7 i -* od 
: ‘ ‘ سے‎ "SN "SN g°N "98 রি 1و‎ 00৪95 
১, می‎ F ج‎ 9 হারা — ৪ম SN 0 0 এছ 0 6 কা রা پت‎ 1G i 
: ; ve —~ "SN "SN SN SN . -* od 
- foeon سم‎ 0 9 ৪7 ‘SN ৪" ‘SN ا‎ "ona 
2 হা #1 = 08 91 — 09 5 st 19 8 Lt SN "SN ‘PR ٠ ٠٢ )سو‎ [025৬১০৪115৪ 
" | 
| 
9 ক ৪ 68 ৪ € ۴ 6 - 0 318 0 ٤6 00 6 (0 6 6 7 : 811و‎ mdugyey 
| 7199৪ joes |. — ‘en 10996 |0 9 ৪ |0 0 ৪ « ০১১০৭ 
i 5 سڈ‎ গস ৪ম SN | ‘SN ot تاد‎ دس٢‎ 
H ie 5 : — چب‎ ৪ 5 | নি 5 **. ঠভঘ [857 ااپنششہد‎ ۱ 
! . * 8 re 8 সস 9 ৪ 8 থ্রি ‘SN : oN 4 1911 30605 5 
: 5 سم پچ‎ “oN "'S'N ‘SN রী ৪ম « .ا‎ sey fuedqeseuuyeg ٠ 
۱ oe tt 0 سے‎ g's "৪ 9 ঈ "SN ۳ : 096 ۱ 
৪৮7 6 * ৯৪ sre — 09 8 0 6 6 006 : "৪ ‘ ey dug wy 
| 6 হা 0 16 سے‎ 0 9 6 9 ৪ 6 ৪ ৪ PM کہ‎ Wey foEsquavugyed রঃ 
۲ | 
: چے- چا کے‎ “a শষ wy | ی-‎ ৪ ‘sy [ed -e ‘ey jd -e ‘sy 1৫ Es by | d ‘we “sy ৃ d "৪ ‘sy ۹ 
| egy 2০425 439% 1 ود‎ 09 ۱ 
এ. aaquieaon | ت٭80(ی۹,ە‎ | Piano ৩ ۱ wag | যয, مر چیہ‎ ওসি | 
| 30 ]ہدوچ زس چرجتوظہ‎ এবারও UO 2015608 1060إ3موإم۵نا مد9‎ wd 


ےہ و 


| 


(০০80) এগার 
آم۵ ح*‎ 


(ems) pip 
صن رصلحہ)‎ 

রস) درد‎ 
| aneog 
4 wey A 
-* ss (asrB0o) چچسومر‎ 
"> (৯5৬০০) 060 
Pro (98০০) ureTey 
mau (umppau) ہ٥‎ 


(595০০) 5 


os (993১০) 310 


MIU (5530০) হ91 পু 


(05181900) ۸۶071120۴6 


mou (0017০) 21011, 


892 


- £Ypourws10p 


Se a EL TT PL PAT A SE TET SLE AUDI IST ASE OAR তির. রিকি তাজা: নতি... 


rf 


২ ০961. sequieaoy “07৮৪৫ 


"Solid O/BSOJOUAA 


578 


4 


‘AUGUST 48) 1056 


ey. 


SUPPLEMENT. 19 ‘LHE 0850৮ 


ne সি 0 7 و ا‎ 


"SN 


0 $1 ৪7 


0 سے‎ FT 


9 91 


97 9 و 91 8 و تو ক‏ 0 


0 9 22 0 9 22 0 S$ 8 


Oo 0 FI و‎ 0 কা 0 OFT 


"SN 


® 8 Os 


0 0 Ff 


‘PR 


yy 5:2৭ ور | ہت تا نف‎ 7° Ray (সত) ang 


” *enoau 0720211 
| "  -(gnoremsde ) pew 
0)0 15655960) )ہدعھ٥جت0رپ‎ Uwpuy) ane 
“adh 
07 ai (555 OL 408194 ATT) 3085 
(0) مگ‎ pun dasys 
0 ate CIS ۲۷80۸ SATE) [MOT 


০ RANOT 


tt 


ot 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUT'?*A GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 


574 


9 হা 99 ا‎ T ۶ی‎ 10 FT ۶ — 09 8 3) 10 0 8 10 & 2 {0 8 Bg oid (fuesucre a) چبجدهہ“ ص۶2‎ 
70 3 ot 16 orot fo gre و سے‎ ৪ اض‎ 9 318 ০ * 6 ৪ Z16 a ae *" seq poyuvug | ٠٠ [হও গত حم ز(مدە-سدں‎ 
” ابی‎ 

0 ٤ 6 6 ہا ول‎ os 6 সপ 0 06 OF 00 6 0.68 «68 9 ٤ 6 “PH রি 11816151101 ٠ [19019 (IVT wHOTe) 1391 0130 

এ 7چ‎ 
| ! اخ ود‎ ۰ 
্ঁ টা 
oz {68 e 19 6 یھ‎ |  -- 0 0 st (0 8 er jo 0 ক |0 ভা ۲ দি بد‎ "+ ofa "7 8 @areoa) چے سو‎ 
: ক FI LT 0 ster سم‎ 90 ZI 0৪ "ھ٢‎ 09৪ 6t 0 0 61 a "* Osta oo এটি مم‎ (aureco) 8113ء‎ 
০ ۶ FI ZI Q 7 --- @ 9 zt 09 8 6I 0 8 ھ"‎ 0 0 67 ۶ a এস یب تہ‎ ++ ২৮.) . (@ervoo) ورس‎ 
- ۴غ‎ 9 Zt 0 8 6 | ل0( 0 0 سے‎ 0 0 61 0 0 6 0 O 61 om = و(‎ 00০0] ০ ٠٠ সিল (98০০০) urerest 

80 SI ক কচু ৪£ 0 8 6t | এ 0 0 ۲ 0 0 95 0 0 02% 0 0 0 “ = 0۷ہ ہہ 8و‎ | °° “৮. (হাহ) [পাতে 

O ST ٢ 2 ٤ ۲ 0 ٢۲ ۲ع 0 0 سم‎ 0 ٥٢ 0 0 فو 1 © آ"‎ এ 09 3 ni (gnipeu) ছয় 
7 হ tat 9 0 6 ! سے‎ 099 67 09 0 "٢ و‎ 0 "٢ 99 67 "PH Supquiosse yeqsinjeg | ۰ ** (ہجووسہ)‎ HwyyUEg 

“oH - 

03 9 ۶ FIZ ots | — 0 رود‎ 00 ৪ 00 8 08 8 ٠ نع‎ ** OG a 9 (9৪০০) 86م‎ 
20 6 316 0 $16 — 0 8 6 0 0 OT 0 316 0 »F OT i "* 07110 oe 7 69৪০০) 31910 
ole 6 316 9 $16 سس‎ 0 8 6 0 0 OL 0 8۲ 6 0 ۴ OT " = quy foxuuqd | ٠ (982400) WASTE 
৪ 6 ۲٤6 9 £ OT — 0 8 ۲آ‎ 0 8 OL 0 8 OF 0 9 ٢ 7 টা? (5 یہت‎ wog | °° (983০০) পাস 

0 O18 6 ক OT 0 ও 01 0 0 OT 0 8 OL 0 0 OT 9 হা 07 রি = 5 [joqueyg | *" -*  (wmMypeu!) puseALTEd 

9 0 8 0 0 OI 0 * OL - 0 0 ٢ 0 0 OT 0 8 0 0 8 OI ‘PR |’ و‎ yeqsinpeq | ** -°  (umypewz) چ٭وسح‎ 

“Appvd 

d ‘es ‘sy j-d ‘e ‘sq icd ‘se ‘sq ‘d ‘se ‘sy [| ‘d ‘we ‘sy i ‘d ‘we چہت*‎ jd ‘3s sq j‘d ‘es ‘ey 

= 2555 ee eS ee ee 5 95959 
এ 07 9, 005 01 و‎ 08 

4341013۸0) 8,81800 nin — সি সি تقو‎ "932512007 3} JO 9651 “۸۲00101111700 

—powwp ‘Avpanyeg Uo Suypue ৪৩9৬, :0১০71০)‏ 187 رود تر 

a] ৩ ৭১১ 


"8367 16109۸018 "“UNdFYNIG LSSM "sooiud 91559101117 


675 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCTY ‘TA GAZETTE, AUGUST 30, 1956 
১৩ শু Oc. 


88 
8 ٤ 
%& 8 
0 9৪ 


0 = 65 


0 Of 82 


ہق تق © © بت ت 


86٤ ts 


o ০৮ © بج‎ 


+ 0 © ও 
a 8 ك٠‎ 


6 0 
8 02 


সপ... © © 


:" ৩১ یی‎ Oo اہ‎ 


০০ © ©‏ ت 


بت 


0 08 


8 05 


oa &‏ ت 
بی ی یج oS‏ 
چ چ اچ “SG‏ 


یق 


« 
0 0°16 
0 ٣ ٤6 


o ০১ ৩৮০১ 


oO 


0 +! 
0 6 


1g 
1s 
5 
85 
‘ON 
‘SN 


eo ০৮ © 


or 5 
| 5 


‘ 101 ৪০৫০৫ ৪৫০৫ 1831 8 
“82058501195 IT 
০770 : (ঘাস) 38০0 
০0 টু ** (pBaye# 394) opegag 
1811 [Joy তগ্ণ 0০755 99.4) MOD 
"9 DRY ODL 
a نر‎ vfersyey 
1۲ 1010111 تن‎ 
11 5 ہ ہرد (70(110ز صسید۔‎ 5500 
۶811 188 ॥ م صد 10089“ پرتحرودتع)‎ 
کت‎ 280 10H Givpnsdy)) (11 ۸۸ 786 
৯ wy yeymmyeg ۱٠٠ © (এ০৭$391ঘ “চভাটে০]) one 
‘uA 
*t 
we 111 ٠٤٥0010۴ 
"(mofo 


of yey 0:1) | Tey IGG prog) 0405 pivjenyg 
ص39٤0‎ 73 


577 


E, AUGUST 30, 1966 


SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZE 


oo 


Ce لت‎ 


i) 


“26৮০2 799 4A 
‘Sussayan py poangynosiby fo جیودومد‎ 2০৫ 
“AVA O'N 
‘9 কা OF 1 lg out 
6 GEE $e) o Go ٭‎ 
O Bt at -* ০7৮ 
Oo 9 6 سے‎ 9 * 
0 ZI ےو‎ 7 0 F چو‎ 
6 ₹% جج‎ 2০ 0 0 ج8‎ 
Q SI 248 ই یع ع و‎ 
وج 9 م6‎ ৮ 0 یم و‎ 
Oo চু & he و‎ ج٢‎ ۶۰ 
9 6 9و ; ٭‎ 9 £ 
0. 2৮ بع 0 0 7 بج‎ 
م0‎ <۶ Zt এ os at 
۴ I st. ci o 9 ٢ 
ی‎ ৪ 8 2: 0 0 2 
oO *F og ai ® 005 
® 76 32 09 প্রা 
0 ০02 50 প্রঃ 
oO OT CT 27 o s Ff! 
0 ¢ Ue on و‎ 8 2 


Oo N & 


So 26 


t 


Oo ے٢‎ 


Gt St 


s SE 


۱ 


0 8 OF 


| 


o 


رئیو بت 


o 


oe &o 
শু 


0 0 aT 


تب 


eo بت‎ 


PUL‏ وچپ ধা টি‏ ۲جوو: 


کی خی 6ہ ৬০০৩ ‘SONICTING‏ 


+638 7৮০০০ 


OG 
و۷‎ 
Fey ور‎ ہ٦‎ 


16 13 1 2*1 
اور ری و چو ور ای 


কাঠা‏ کے 
2৭৯০০‏ چیر Fey‏ 


]۲ر * 
৩০৬)‏ ھچ ا 


mya ۲[ 


و و صمنة 
০01‏ 


আজ এ 


চি 


¥ foe (hegg) mH 


چا 38۰1+ی + صورج >> 


7۴ ) و تک 
ہج Payee 'qam)y‏ چعودہی)) 2 


(6১১10 +11۶2 হি 
چیں۔‎ pun ০০০7 পট rine 
2 


০4৭ mee 


۲5151:1171 


(ডে) PIVSHIC 
TO 
سے‎ TEE} 97529 PIO) رصع‎ 
رہوج وووچو*‎ 
7s (assy) 07870 
-৪০%০০894 pun ০220৩ 


“৮ دپوں)‎ PUE jesueq ز(مت*‎ +10 


বেসন) 0‏ وت 

(97০) 0 

"sands 

is (aeqeq 1800) arerg 

(fey “Biq) mse 

(rey 45০) Zan je 
۶ء زج آ007۸ج)-‎ 


878 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CALCUTTA GAZETT™, AUGUST 90, ‘1086 


CALCUTTA IMPROVEMENT ‘TRUSS 
NOTIFICATION 


Dated Calcutta, the 24th August 1956 


Notice is hereby given under Section 4(2) of the Calcutta Improvement 
Act, 19[ با‎ as amended, that the Indian Chamber of Commerce have elected, 
under Section 4(1)(d), Shri R. K. Bhuwalka of Messrs. R. তু. Bhuwalka & 
(90.১ 8 Roval Exchange Place, Caleutta, to be a Member of the Board of 
Trustees for the Improvement of Calcutta with effect from 23rd August, 1956. 


S. K GUPTA, Chairman. 


১১ নিন 
Printed and published by the Supgrintendent, Government Printing, West Bong; 
at West Bengal Governnent Press, Alipore ou the 30th 02 1966. جس‎ 


