REGISTERED No. D. 223 


Wiiz (layette 






PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 



No. 50] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 22, i«8o 


NOTICl 

The undermenlioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 2nd December, 1 D08: — 


Issue No. and date 

INu. 

Issued by 

Subject 

123 No. 1 1 ( 1 )-TR/58, dated 
November, 1958. 

29th 

Ministry of Commerce and Industry. 

Recommendations of the Tariff Commis- 
sion regarding protection to the Elec- 
tric Motor Industry. 

No. 32(2)-TR/58, dated 
November, 1958. 

t 

29th 

Do. 

Recommendations of the Tariff Commis- 
sion regarding protection to the Caustic 
Soda and Bleaching Powder Industry. 

124 No. 101-TTC(PN)/58, dated 
December, 1958. 

2 nd 

Do. 

Import of machinery and machine tools 
under U S. Export-Import Bank Pro- 
gramme. 

No. 102-ITC(PN)/58, dated 
December, 1958. 

2 nd 

Do. 

Import of Steel for construction purposes 
for establishment of new industrial un- 
dertakings or expansion of the existing 
undertakings against scheme approved 
by the Government of India. 


Copies of the Gazettes extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publication*. 
Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of i*»ue of 
these Gazettes. 


CONTENTS 


Pages 

Part I — Section i, — Notification* relating to 
Noo-Statutory Rules, Regulation* and Order* 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministries 
of the Government of Indi* (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court . . 323 

PART I — Section a. — Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Government Officers issued by 
the Ministries of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of 


Defence) and by the Supreme Court . . 729 

Part I — Suction 3. — Notification* relating 
to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations, 

Orders and Resolutions, issued by the 
Ministry of Defence ..... Nil 

PART I — Skotion 4.— Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Officers, issued by the Ministry of 
Defence ..... 275 

PART II — Section I. — Acts, Ordinances and 

Regulations ...... Nil 

Part II — Skotion a. — Bills and Reports of 

Select Committees on Bills . . . Nil 


Part II — Skotion 3. — Sua-SECmoN (i) — General 
Statutory Rules (including order*, byo-laws 
etc., of a general character) iwued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations 
of Union Territories) . . 1 1 37 

Part IJ— Srction 3 — Sub-Section (ii). — Statutory 
order* and notification* issued by the Minis- 
tries of the Government of India (other than 
the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of 
Union Territories) • . . . - 2805 


Pages 

Part II — SaorioN p, — Statutory Rules and 

Orders notified Oy the Ministry of Defence • 229 

Part III — Skotion i. — Notifications issued by 
the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, High 
Courts, and the Attached and Subordinate 
Office* of the Government of India 


[Published at Simla) ..... 1479 

P/rt III — Skotion 3.— Notifications and Notices 
issued by the Patent Office, Oilcutta 
[Published at Simla) , , , 339 

Part III — Srction 3 .— Notification* Issued 
by or under the authority of Chief 
Commissioners [Published at Simla) • • 149 

Part III — Skotion 4 . — Miscellaneou* Noti- 

fications including notifications, orden, a J ver- 
tiiement* and notice* issued by S'Rtu'ory 
Bodies [Published at Simla) . , , 603 

Part IV — Advertisements and Notices by 
Private individuals and Private bodies. 

( Published at Simla) .... 223 


Supplement No. 47— 4 

Reported attacks and deaths from cholera, (malt- 
poR, plague and typhus in districts in Tndia 
during week ending 15 th November, 1938 675 

Births and deaths from principal disease* In 
towns with a population of 30,000 and 
over in India during week ending 13 th 
November, 1938 . . . ' . 673 


< 323 ) 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 13, 1 958/AGRAHAYANA 22, 1880 [Part I-Sec. 1 


PART I— Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulation* and Order* and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1958 

No. Sl-Pres./SS.— ' The President is pleased to award the 
President's Police and Fire Services Medal for gallantry to 
the undermentioned officer:— 

Name of the Office and Rank 

Shri Jagdip Singh Pathania, 

Executive Officer (ex-officio Fire Officer-1), 

Municipal Committee, Pathankot. 

Statement of Services for which the Decoration has been 
awarded. 

A terrific explosion took place on the morning of 24th 
February, 1958, at Pathankot when ammunition boxes were 
being unloaded from railway wagons resulting In 43 persons 
being killed and 13 Injured. A devastating fire broke out 
as a result of the explosion and threatened to envelop the 


whole town. But graver still was Lite risk of further explo- 
sion from boxes of ammunition and cylinders of oxygen 
which had been unloaded and which were completely 
surrounded by the fire. This was the situation when Shrl 
J. S. Pathania led the Fire Brigade into Lhe spreading con- 
flagration in total disregard of personal safety. He personally 
initiated the task of salvaging the boxes of live ammunition 
and other combustible material and with the assistance of 
Military Fire -Brigade Units and rescue parties he was able 
to bring the conflagration under control within a couple of 
hours. Shri Pathania displayed conspicuous gallantry and 
exceptional courage and leadership In conducting the fire 
fighting operations. 

2. This award is made for gallantry under rule 4 (f) of the 
rules governing the award of the President’* Police and Fire 
Services Medal and consequently carries with it the special 
allowance admissible to officers of the Fire Services as pro- 
vided in rule 5. 

A. V. PAT, Secy. 


SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the zyth November, 1958 

No. F-aa/jg-SCA. — In pursuance of Rule 5 of Order If of the Supreme Court Rules 1950 (as amended) it is hereby 
notified that the following days will be observed as Court holidays during the year 1959. 


Name of holiday 


Month & Date 


Day of the week No. of 

days 


Republic Day 
Basant Panchami . 

Shivralri 

Hali 

Good Friday 

Id-ul-Fitr 

Baisakhi 

Ram Naumi 

Budha Purnima 

Id-uz-Zuha 

Muharram 

Independence Day 

Solono 

Jan am ABhtami 
Mlladun Nabi 

Mahatma Gandhi’s Birthday 
Dussehra . 

Diwali . . 

Guru Nanak’s Birthday 
Christmas & New Year Holidays 


26th January 

Monday 

I 

12th February 

Thursday 

I 

7th March 

Saturday 

I 

24th & 25th March 

Tuesday & Wednesday 

2 

27 th March 

Friday 

I 

10th April 

Friday 

I 

13* April 

Monday 

I 

17th April 

Friday 

I 

22nd May 

Friday 

I 

I 8th June 

Thursday 

I 

17th July 

Friday 

I 

15th August 

Saturday 

I 

18th August 

Tuesday 

I 

26th August 

Wednesday 

I 

16th September 

Wednesday 

I 

2nd October 

Friday 

I 

9th, 10th and nth October 

Friday, Saturday & Sunday 

3 

31st October & 1st November 

Saturday & Sunday 

2 

15th November 

Sunday 

I 

24th December 1959 to znd 


10 


January i960 (both days in- 
clusive). 


By order of the Court, 
ARINDAM DUTY, 
Registrar. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Dejjattraent of Economic Affairs) 

RESOEUTfON 

New Delhi, the 4th December 1958 
No. F.22(5)-NS/58.— The following changes arc made in the 
personnel of the Central and State Advisory Boards oE the 
Women's Savings Campaign set up in this Department s 
Resolution No. F. 8 (14)-NS/56 dated the 29th October, 1956. 

(1) Smt. Phulrenu Guha, 55/5, Manoharpukar Road, 
Calcutta, (29), is nominated a Member of the Central 
Advisory Board. 

(2) Smt. Protima Roy is nominated Chairman, State Ad- 
visory Board, West Bengal vice Smt. Sujata Banerjee, 
who is nominated a Member of the same Board. Smt. 
Padraini Sen Gupta, 1. Kvd Street, Calcutta, (16), is 
also nominated a Member of (lie West Bengal State 
Advisory Board, Smt. Abha Maity ami Kumari Maya 
Banerjee, Members of the same Board have resigned, 


13) The name "Smt. Bandu", Member, State Advisory 
Board, Rajasthan, appearing in this Department’s 
Resolution of even No, dated the 28th August, 1958 
should be corrected to read "Smt. S. P. Wanchoo", 

(4) Smt. Rama Rao, Member, Central Advisory Board, 
has resigned. 

(5) The mmc “Smt. Phul Kumari” Member, State Advi- 
sory Board, Rajasthan, appearing in this Department’s 
Resolution of even No. dated the 28th August, 1958 
should he read as "Phul Kumari Agarwal”. 

R. SARAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1958 

No, F.8-24/57-A. 10,— In partial modification of (he erst- 
while Ministry of Education and Scientific Rcscaich Notifica- 
tion No. F-8-24/57-C2, dated the 1st March, 1958, Shri 



Part I— Sic, 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER IS, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 22, 1880 


325 


V. K. Bawa, I.A.S., Director, Central Records Office, 
Hyderabad, a nominee o£ Andhra Pradesh Government is 
appointed as a member of Research and Publication Com- 
mittee of the Indian Historical Records Commission vice 
Shri R. M. Joshi, The term of appointment of Shri 
V. K. Bawa will expire on 31 sl Match, 1962. 

R. L. ANAND, Under Secy. 


(Central Advisory Board of Education in India) 

New Delhi, the 5lh December) 1958 

Tfo. JF.l-4/58-SE,l.— Shri A. A, A. Fyzee, Vice-Chancellor. 
Jammu Sc Kashmir University, Srinagar, has been re-nominated 
»s a member of the Central Advisory Board of Education 
:for a period of three years with effect from 11th September, 
1958. 

2. Prof. M. S. Thacker, Secretary, Ministry of Scientific 
Research *c Cultural Affairs, Government of India, New Delhi 
has been nominated as a member of the Central Advisory 
Board of Education for a period of three rears with effect 
from 26th July, 1958. 

VEDA PRAKASHA, Asstt. Edu, Adviser. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 
AFFAIRS 

(Archaeology) 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1958 

No. F.1I-10/B8-C.I.— In continuation of this Ministry's notifi- 
cations of even No. dated the 21st August, 1958 and 24th 
September 1958, the following persons have been appointed 
as members of the Central Advisory Board of Archaeology for 
a period of three years with effect from 1st September, 1958.- 

Members nominated by Learned Societies 

1. Dr. V. D, Rao, Ruia College, Matunga, Bombay — 19 vice 
Dr. Bisheahwar Prasad.— Indian History Congress, 

2. Prof. Dr. P. V. Bapat, Delhi University, Uclhi-8 vice 
jProf. V. V. Mirashi.— All India Oriental Conference. 

Representative each of the fourteen State Governments 

1. Shri B. V. Nath, Superintendent Archaeology, Govern- 
ment of Orissa, Bhubaneshwar vice Shri P. Acharya-Govern- 
rnent of Orissa, 

2. Dr. S. T. Satyamurti, Assistant Superintendent, Govern- 
ment Museum, Madras vice Dr. A. Aiyappan.— Government of 
Madras. 

3. Shri Mahmood Ahmad, Principal, Amarslngh College 

Srinagar nice Shri T. N. Khazanchh-Governmenl of Jammu 
.and Kashmir. J 

D, L. SONDHI Under Secy. 


(Anthropology ) 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1958 


No. F.2S-3/58-Sur,IIL— In partial amendment 
•of Education and .Scientific Research Notification 
J/-CT, dated the 25th January, 1958, for para (i) 
following should be substituted:— 


of Ministiy 
No. F. 8-26/ 
therein, the 


( 1 ) Three members of Parliament— One from the Raiva 
Sabha and two from Hie Lok Sabha to be elected by 
the respective House— 

(1) Shri Salish Chandra Samanta, M.P.— (l.ok Sabha). 

(2) Shri Jamal Khawaja, M.P.- (Lok Sabha). 

(3) Dr. Raghubir Sinh, M.P.- (Rajya Sabha). 


\ F, MUSTAFY, Dy. Secy. 

MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

RESOLUTION 

Neui Delhi, the 8t.h December 1958 

No. 2S-PLA(9l)/58.-In modification ol the Ministry of 
Transport & Communications (Department of Transport! 
Resolution No 23-PLA (911/58, dated the 23rd Angus WS 
published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Pan I Section 
, Ti l l Xe 2 t h Au B ust ' 1958 the Government of India have 

Pon sLn 3 ,' Shn K - c' UU 'c' Direct01 ' of Operations,* 1 Calcutta 
o , shall be a tuember of ih c Committee for the Classifier 
lion and Categorisation of Class III and Class IV employees of 

t'conSLT' Sh " »"» 

Order 

That a copy of the Resolution be communicated to the 
it teres s concerned and that it be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information. 

N A K I I .SEN, Joint Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 
State Awards for Films 
New Delhi, the 8lh December 1958 

No. 21/5/58-FC.— In supersession of the Resolution of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. 31/5/57-FC, dated the 5th November, 1957, 
Lhe following rules are notified concerning State Awards 
for Films:— 


RULES 

1. The object of the State Awards for Films is to encourage 
Lhe production of films of a high aesthetic and technical 
standard and of educational and cultural value. 

2. The following State Awards for Films have been 
instituted: 


All-India Awards 

(a) Feature Films. 

(i) President’s Gold Medal for the best film and a cash 
prize of Rs. 20,000 to its producer and Rs. 5,000 to 
its director, 

(ii) .All-India Certificate of Merit for the second best 
him and a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 to its producer 
and Rs, 2/500 to its director. 

(iii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the third best film. 

(b) Documentary Films. 

(i) Presidents Gold Medal for the best film and a cash 
prize of Rs. 4,000 to its producer and Rs. 1,000 to 
its director. 

(ii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the second best film 
and a cash prize of Rs. 2,000 to its producer and 
Rs. 500 to its director. 

(iii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the third best film. 

(c) Children's Films. 

(i) Prime Minister's Gold Medal for the best film and 
a cash prize of R», 20,000 * to its producer and 
Rs. 5,000 to its director. 

(Ii) All-India Certificate of Merit for the second best film 
and a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 to its producer and 
Rs. 2,500 to its director. 

(ill) All-India Certificate of Merit for the third best film. 

Regional Awards 

(d) President’s Silver Medal for the best feaLure film in 
each Indian language and Certificates of Merit for the two 
next besL teaiuic films in each such language. 


L\filanatinn 


The terms “producei" and "director" used herein will be 
construed as retelling to the producei or the director as the 
case may be, as given in the ciedlL titles of the film duly 
certified by the Central Board of Film Censors, 

3. lhe Awards will be made annually on a date to be 
fixed by Government. 


4. All Indian feature, documentary and children's films 
certified for public exhibition by the Central Board ot Film 
Censors 111 the preceding calendar year will be eligible lor 
entiy, which may be made by the producer or any other 
duly authorised person in the Form tonlained In the Schedule 
hereto annexed. The teiiu 'documentary film' includes a 
scientific film or a film intended for educational purposes, 

5. hi addition. Regional Officers of the Central Hoard of 

Fdm Censors may recommend any feature, documentary or 
children's films for entiy lor the Awards. 1 


o. i\o entty tee will be charged, but the entrant will be 
required to submit at bis cost a print of the him together 
with an English rendering of the script/synopsis if the film 
is in a language othei than Hindi or English, anil publicity 
material, to such Regional Officer of the Central Board of 
Film Censors as may be specified. The entry should be 
accompanied by particulars or the film such as title of the 
film gauge, language, length, name of the producer, name 
of he director, number and date of the certificate ot cen- 
sorship and date of release, etc. as in the Form referred to 


mx'-sion ol the Government of India whether anv 
blur is a feature him, documentary film or children’s film 
lor tile purpose of the Awards will be final. Government 
may ptesertbe the maximum length of a childrens film for 
the purpose of entry tor the Awards, 

8. Ordinarily, a film which is a dubbed version, a retake 
or an adaptation ol another film will not be eligible for 
consideration the the Awards. Government, may, however 
in any particular instance, where it is satisfied that the 
“ d “ p '7 ! or Lhc retake represents a fresh contribution 

l Wards the interpretation of the story, allow the entry of 
such a him for the Awards. The producer of a film made 
n more than one language versions, may enter only one of 
he versions of that him. Films based on classics or mytho 

adaptations." ’ Y IeaWn ° £ th ° Sub j ect ’ bc ^ be 



THE GAZETTE OF TND1A : DECEMBER J;>, 1058/AGRAH A YANA 22, 1880 [Part I-Skc. T 


326 


9. Entries for tlic Awnuls will be invited by Government 
during a period, to be* notified, rcla^nblc in exceptional cases 
at the discretion of Government, 

10. All transport costs on the tousignmcnl and return of 
the film and publicity material will be payable by the 
entrant. 

11. All films will be subinlnetl at owner’s risk atul while 
the Government will take every reasonable care of the films 
submitted, it cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage 
to the film while in its possession. 

12. Three Regional Committees appointed by Government 
will Initially examine leaLure films entered for the Awards 
in the languages indicated below: 

(i) Regional Committee at Bombay— Hindi (Including 

Urdu and Hindustani), Marathi, Punjabi, Gujarati 
and English. 

(ii) Regional Committee at Calcutta— Bengali, Assamese 
anti Oriya. 

(iii) Regional Committee at Madras— Tamil. Tclugu, 

Kannada and Malayalam. 

13. Each Regional Committee will be composed of: 

(a) A Chairman nominated by Government. 

(b) Not more than four distinguished persons of culture, 
art or literature nominated by the Government of 
India in consultation with the State Government 
concerned with the language. (Care will he taken to 
ensure that all the languages of the region arc 
represented in the selection of these four persons) 

(<) Persons, not exceeding three, qualified to judge 

technical standard, presentation, direction and 

treatment values of films, nominated by Government 
from a panel of names representing the industry. 

14. The Regional Committees will recommend in order 
of merit a list of three fcatuie films in each language lor 
consideration by the Central Committee, 

lli. lire documentary films entered for the Awards will be 
initially examined by a Documentary Committee appointed 
by Government with a membership not exceeding five. This 
Committee will recommend in order of merit six docu- 
mentary films lor consideration by the Central Commiltcc. 


the recommendations have been made by the special Com- 
mittee, (he recommendations shall be subject to the approval 
of the Cenlval Committee. 

21. The Regional Committees, the Dot mnentary Committee 
and the Central Committee may determine their own pro- 
ccduie for the examination of hints. 

22. The quorum of a Regional Committee will he four 
and that of the Documentary and the Central Committee 
thiee and six respectively. Tile decisions of the Central, 
Documentary and Regional Committees will he by a majority 
of the members present. 

23. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as restriit- 
ing the discretion oF a Regional Committee, the Documentary 
Committee or the Central Committee from making a recom- 
mendation that none of the films In a particular language 
or category is of a standard adequate for an Award. 

24. The recommendations of the Central Committee will 
be submitted to Government for approval. 

2"). A film will be eligible for an Award only in one of 
tbc three categories r/iz., feature, documentary or children's 
film. A him may, however, be given an All-India as well 
as a Regional Award in the same category. 

2fi. The Regional Committees, the Documentary Committee 
and the Central Committee will examine films at such place 
and time as may be considered feasible. 

27. Government shall be entiled to retain, without pay- 
ment of cost, the print entered for the Awards of a film 
which receives an Award in the form of a medal and/or 
cash. 

2K 1 he function for the presentation of the Awards will 
lie held at such place and on such date as Government may 
determine. 

SoltFDt'I.F, 

FORM 

For entry for the State Awards lor Films 
(To he submitted In duplicate) 

(See rule 4) 


l(i. The Central Committee will be composed of:— 

(a) A Chairman nominated by Government. 

(b) Chairmen of the three Regional Committees. Wheie 
a Chairman is not available to sit on the Central 
Committee, Government may nominate a member of 
the Regional Committee concerned on the Central 
Committee. 


To 

The Regional Officer, 

Central Board of l ilm Censors, 

Bombay/ Calcuua/Madras, 

Entry for State Awards for Films 


(c) Not more than foui distinguished persons of culture, 
art or literature nominated by Government. 

(d) Persons, not exceeding three. qualified to judge 
teilinical standard, presentation, direction and treat- 
ment values of fiiins, nominated by Government from 
a panel of names representing the industty. 

(e) One member of the Cenral Board of Film Censors 
nominated by Government. 

17, Nothing contained in rules, 13, 13 and lfi will preclude 
the co-option of an additional member to assist the Central, 
Documentary or a Regional Committee, as the case may be, 
in examining films in any particular language and the mem- 
ber so co-opted will have all the rights of an ordinary 
member. 

IS. Membership of the Central, Documentary and Regional 
Committees will be honoraiv, but the members may be 
allowed such travelling and conveyance allowances as may 
be sanctioned by Government ftom time to time. 

10. The Central Committee will consider the recommenda- 
tions of the Regional Committees and the Documentary 
Committee. The Cenral Committee may, for reasons to he 
recotded in writing, call lor the reiords of a Regional Con 
mittce or tile Dommentary Committee and may also examine 
any film entered for the Awards but not recommended by a 
Regional Committee or the Documentary Committee. The 
Central Committee will recommend in order of merit: 

(1) t hree best feature films for the All-India Awards. 

(2) I’hrcc best documentary films for the All-India 
Awards. 

(3) Three best feature films in each language other than 
English for Regional Awards. 

20. The Central Committee, or if the Government so 
directs, a Special Committee constituted for this purpose, 
will examine the children's films entered for the Awards and 
recommend the best three films in order of merit. Where 


1. (i) Title of the film; 

(ii) Whether Feature/Doeiimentary/Childrcn’s film: 

(iii) Language of Lhe film: 

(iv) T.cngth and gjuge of the film: 

fv) Number of reels: 

(vi) Colour of the film: 

(vii) Name and address of the producer: (with telephone- 
number, if any) 

(viii) Name and address of the Director: 

(h) Names and addresses of principal members of the 
tasl: 

(x) Ninbei and date of Certificate: 

(xi) Date of release: 

2. Please stale whether Lhc film is a dubbed version, an 
.idaptatinn oi a retake ot another film. If so, give particulars 
of the film of which it is a dubbed version, an adaptation 
or a retake. 

3. Where the person making the entry is not the producer, 
please state whether he has been duly authorised to make 
tlif entry. 

I certify that t lie statements made above are true to the 
best of my knowledge and belief. 

I hereby agree to the Government retaining the print of 
the film, without payment of cost, in the event of its receiving 
an Award in the form of a medal and/or cash. 

Djtc: Signature: 

Place: Address: 


ORiiFRFn that tbc Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information. 


V. KUMAR, Dy. Secy 



