REGISTERED No, D. 222 


(Sa^ette 



«W<W'«t4 


of Itxbta 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 49 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1962 /AG RAHAY ANA 17, >884 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extra ordinary were published upto the 29th Novem- 
ber, 19 62 : — 


Issue 

No. No. and Date Issued by Subject 


346 S.O. 3557, dated 26th Nov- Ministry of Commerce Declaring that no person shall 
ember, 1962. & Industry. enter into any forward con- 

tract for the sale or purchase 
of Kapas (unginned cotton) 
save with the permission of 
the Central Government. 


347 S.O. 3558, dated 26th Nov- 
ember, 1962. 


Ministry of Finance 


347-1 S.O." r 3558-A, dated 26th Ministry of Commerce 
A’ November, 1962. & Industry. 


Declaring that it propose 
to undertake mining opera- 
tions in respect of gold in 
the State of Mysore in the 
area specified in the Schedule 
appended. 

Draft Amendments to the 
Trade and Merchandise Marks 
Rules, 1959. 


348 S.O. 3559, dated 27th Nov- 
ember, 1962. 

S.O. 3560, dated 27th Nov- 
ember, 1962. 


Ministry of Information Approval of films specified there- 
in. 


& Broadcasting, 
Ditto 


Corrigendum to Order No. 3276 
dated 22nd October, 1962, 


349 S.O. 3643, dated 23th Nov- Ministry of Commerce Declaring that no person shall 
ember, 1962. & Industry. enter into any forward con- 

tract for the sale or purchase 
of Copper, Zinc, Lead or 
tin save with the permission 
of the Central Government. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


( 3951 ) 


3952 THE gazette of india: December a, 1962 /agrahayana 17, 1884 [Part ii- 


PART II — Section 3— Sub-section (11) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other t han the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 


New Delhi, the 31st October 1962 

S.O. 3653. — In pursuance of Section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 3rd 
October, 1962, by the Election Tribunal, Ahmedabad. 

BEFORE THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL AT AHMEDABAD 

Election Petition No. 216 of 1962 

Exh. No. 172 


In the matter of the Election to the House of the People, Anand Parliamentary 
Constituency — Petition under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Patel Chhotabhal Desaibhal, residing at Ajarpura, Taluka Anand, District Kaira, 
Gujarat State — Petitioner. 

Vs. 

1. Narendrasinhaji Katanslnhaji Mahida residing at Baroda. 

2. Maniben Vallabhbhai Patel, residing at Navjiwan Karyalaya, Ahmedabad — 
Respondents, 

Messrs, Jasubhai B. Patel, B. B. Patel & J. C. Patel for the petitioner, 

Messrs. B. K, Amin, U. P. Jadeja & C. N. Desai for Respondent No. 1. 

Messrs. C. T. Daru and G. S. Barot for respondent No. 2. 

Coram: — His Honour Mr. N. K. Vakil. B.A., LL.B., Member, Election 
Tribunal. 

Dated the 3rd October 1962. 

JUDGMENT 

This Is an election petition dated 10th April 1962 filed under section 81 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, to have the election of respondent No. 1 
declared void and to have respondent No. 2 to be declared elected or for a direc- 
tion to have a fresh election. The petitioner has filed this petition as an elector 
In relation to the House of the People, Anand Parliamentary Constituency In 
Kaira District. Respondents Nos. 1 and 2 were candidates for the Anand Parlia- 
mentary Constituency in Kaira district of Gujarat State. The Anand Parliamentary 
Constituency consisted of the area comprised of the following: 


Parliamentary Constituency, Anand. 


Sr. No. & name 

Date of Poll. 

Sr. No. and 

of Parliamentary 


name of 

Constituency. 


Assembly 

Constituency. 


23rd February 1962. 

90 Dhandhuka. 


21st February 1962 

91 Umreth. 


25th February 1962 

92 Anand. 


21st February 1962. 

93 Suratl. 


25th February 1962, 

94 Petlad. 


23rd February 1962. 

97 Cambay. 


23rd February 1962 

98 Matar, 



Sec. 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 3. 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 3953 


The said constituency was a single member constituency. Respondent No. 1 was 
nominated as a candidate by the Swatantra Party, The symbol selected by the 
Swatantra party for the election was a “Star”. Respondent No. 2 was a candidate 
of the Congress and the symbol of the. Congress candidate was two bullocks with 
yoke on. These two were the only candidates and the rosult of the said election 
was declared by the Returning Officer on the 1st of March 1962 at Kaira. Respon- 
dent No. 1 had secured 1,69,116 votes as against 1,46,387 votes secured by 
respondent No. 2. Respondent No, 1, therefore, was declared as elected by a 
majority of 22,729 votes. The petitioner has averred that nearly 60% of voters 
out of the total number of voters In the Anand Parliamentary Constituency belong 
to Kshatrlya Community, 

2. The petitioner further states that Respondent No. 1, Natwarsinhaji Solanki 
(who shall hereafter be referred to as the said Solanki), Bhagwansinhjl Chhasatia 
(hereinafter will be referred to as the said Chhasatia) and Chhatrasinh Atalia (who 
hereinafter will be referred to as the said Atalia) are the leaders of eminence in the 
Kshatriya community of Gujarat and their followers had attached great value to 
their orders and Instructions; that these persons had addressed several meetings 
of their followers and appealed to them that it was the ‘Primary Dharma’ of all 
their followers to help the candidature of respondent No. 1; that the said Solanki, 
Chhasatia and Atalia had given orders to all the Kshatrlya voters of the said Cons- 
tituency to vote for the first respondent on the ground of religion, caste and com- 
munity. It is further averred that the said Solanki, Chhasatia and Atalia were 
the Agents and active supporters of the first respondent and they Were acting with 
the consent of the respondent No. 1 and/or his election agent. 

3. The petitioner alleges that the Respondent No. 1 had published a statement 
(Nlvedan) under his signature under the heading ‘‘I HAVE LEFT CONGRESS TO 
CONVEY THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE”. This statement is attached to the peti- 
tion as Annexure ‘A.’ In para 5 of the petition, the petitioner has quoted the tran- 
slation of certain passages of the said Gujarati statement which is impunged as 
offending on the basis of It being an appeal to the Kshatrlya community to support 
the candidature of respondent No. 1 as a Kshatriya. As it will be convenient to 
refer to the details of this Annexure under the particular issue, I do not think it 
necessary to mention them here. This appeal was made to the said community 
with the object of using it as a direct inducement to vote for respondent No. 1 
himself and to refrain from voting for any other person on the ground of his reli- 
gion, race, caste, and community for the furtherance of the prospects of his election 
and for prejudicially affecting the election of respondent No. 2. 

4. It is also alleged that the said statement of the respondent No. 1 was further 
Intended to promote feelings of enmity and/or hjjtred between different classes of 
Indian citizens on the ground of religion, race, c5ETte and community for the fur- 
therance of the prospects of his election. 

j. The petitioner also alleges that this particular statement, Annexure ‘A’, 
was used m carrying on the propaganda on behalf of the respondent No. 1 by 
circulating it und by orally stating the content? of it to voters at public meetings 
and otherwise also by publishing the same in the daily paper “Swatantra Sarjan” 
■dated 10th February, 1962 throughout the said Constituency. In para 8 of the 
petition, the petitioner has given the names of the villages where this propaganda 
was particularly carried out, 

6. In the said statement Annexure ‘A’ of respondent No. 1, the words "JAI 
SOMNATH” have been used at the end and It is alleged by the petitioner that this 
expression has been used as it has a historical back-ground and has a special mean- 
ing and religious efficacy and significance to the Kshatriyas. ‘SOMNATH’ is 
the titular God of Kshatriya and the said words arc used for exciting the Kshatriyas 
in the name of religion and also to promote the feelings of hatred between the 
different classes of citizens of India on the ground of religion, race, caste or 
community, 

7. In para 10 of the petition, it is alleged that the circulation of the said state- 
ments in the Constituency as stated in the petition had greatly affected the prospect 
of respondent No. 2 from being elected and had interfered with the free exercise 
of the electoral rights of the voters in this Constituency, as the majority of the 
voters were ingnorant, illiterate villagers and they were susceptible to such pro- 
paganda and have, therefore, undue influenced by such direct compelling appeal. 
By an amendment in the petition, para 10, the petitioner has averred that the 
respondent No, 1, by associating himself with dignitaries and religious persons and 
declaring a sin to vote otherwise, unduly Influenced the voters under the exercise 



3954 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1 962 / A GRAD AY A N A 17. 1884 [Part II— 


of their right to vote. It is, therefore, alleged that the respondent No. 1 had 
committed corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951, 

8. The other allegation on which the petition basis his petition is that over and 
above the appeal on the ground of religion, caste or community made by the said 
Anncxture ‘A’, the respondent No. 1, his agents and others with the consent of the 
respondent No. 1 had carried on a propaganda by the use of a religious symbol in 
several leaflets by saying and suggesting that the “Swatantra party” carried that 
emblem of the ‘Star’ of ‘DHRUVA’. It is alleged that by this the respondent No. 1 
and his supporters and agents suggested that the five qualities of the star of 
‘DHRUVA’ of being eternal, Arm, guide, resolute and devoted to religion were 
the virtues of the Kshatriya and as such they should vote for respondent No. 1. 
It is, therefore, alleged that respondent No. 1 and his agents and supporters with 
his consent gave a religious impetus to the propaganda by the use of this religious 
symbol and thus they obtained votes by appealing to the voters to vote on the 
ground of religion and bv use or appeal to religious symbol. The leaflets on which 
the petitioner relies upon for this allegation are Annexures B(l) to B ( 6 ) attached 
to the petition. 

9. The petitioner alleges further that the said Solanki, who was the Secretary 
of the Swatantra Party, had published and circulated a statement on 18th February, 
1982 under his own signature. This leaflet is Annexure ‘C’ to the petition. The 
said statement was also published in the daily paper "Sw antra Sarjan”. That 
copy of the paper is annexure C(l) to the petition, In paragraph 13, the petition- 
er has quoted the offending part of that leaflet and publication. It is alleged that 
by this a direct appeal to vote for the first respondent on the ground of religion, 
race, caste and community has been made. It is further alleged that the said 
statement is an attempt by promoting feelings of hatred against different classes 
of citizens of India on the ground of religion, race, caste and community to further- 
ance of the prospects of the election of respondent No. 1 and for prejudicially 
affecting the election of respondent No, 2. 

10. In addition to the above, the petitioner also relies upon a booklet Annexure 
‘B’ and a leaflet Annexure ‘E’ to the petition for his allegation of the respondent 
No. 1 having committed the corrupt practice of undue influence within the mean- 
ing of section 123(2) of the said Act. It is not necessary to give the details of 
these two here, because at the hearing of the petition, this ground was given up 
and the petitioner has not relied upon these two leaflets, 

11. The petitioner alleges further that the Secretary of the “Gujarat Kshatriya 
Sabha” (which is a body of the Kshatriyas) has conventions of Kshatriya workers 
of the Taluka at four places on the dates stated in para 17 of the petition. In 
the said conventions, respondent No, 1, Solanki, Chhasatia and others were present; 
that the leaflets announcing the holding of the said conventions contained the 
emblem of “JAI SOMNATH” and also recited the expression “JAI SOMNATH’* 
and by, doing so had committed the corrupt practice of use and appeal to a 
religious symbol. The leaflet containing the said offending material is annexure 
‘F’ to the petition. It Is alleged that the said conventions were held at the Instance 
of or with the consent of respondent No. 1 with a view to soliciting votes for him 
on the ground of his caste and community. In the said conventions, it is alleged 
that appeal were made by the persons stated above and others to vote for the 
respondent No. 1 as a Kshatriya. The said conventions were attended by a large 
number of Kshatriya workers and leaders of the Taluka^. It is alleged that in the 
meetings, respondent No. 1 and the said Solanki also tbld the voters to vote for 
the ‘Dhruva Tara’ the symbol of the Swatantra party and If they failed to so vote 
for the Swantantra party, they would be failing in their Kshatriya Dharma. Other 
words are also put in the mouth of these people and which are quoted in paras 
18 and 19 of the petition. 

12. It Is alleged that similar conventions were held at other places also as 
mentioned in para 20 of the petition and, in all the said conventions, respondent 
No. 1 and the said Solanki and Chhasatia were present and had made similar 
appeal to the voters on the ground of religion, caste and community. 

13. The petitioner in para 22 gives particulars of the various villages, the date 
and time of the meetings held by the Swatantra Paksh and its election propaganda 
committee at the instance of or with the consent of respondent No. 1; that the 
leaflets calling such meetings bear the names of the said Solanki and one Chiman- 
bhai Badubhai (who was the election agent of the first respondent). The said 



Sec. S(li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 . 1%2/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 3955 


leaflet is Annexure ‘G’ to the petition. It is alleged that in the said meetings, 
Chimanbhai Dadubhal and Solanki had particularly appealed to the Kshatriyas to 
vote for respondent No. 1 as a Kshatriya and had also asked him t.o vote for Bahilal 
Patel, another candidate for the Swatantra Paksh for the Assernbly* 


14 Other meetings are alleged to have been called by. the Swatantra Pakan by 
a leaflet Annexure ‘H’ with the petition. The names of the places etc. of the said 
meetings are given in para 23 of the petition. The said meetings are alleged to 
have been addressed by the first respondent, C-hhasatia and Solanki, in which they 
appealed particularly to the Kshatriya voters to vote for respondent No. 1 and the 
other Swatantra party candidates contesting election for the Legislative Assem- 


bly. 

15. Annexure T to the petition relied upon by the petitioner is a leaflet an- 
nouncing that the procession will be taken out on 23rd February, 1962 at Anand 
under the leadership of respondent No. 1 Bhailalbhai Patel: that such a procession 
was taken out and in the said meeting, a large number of Kshatriyas were present 
The meeting was addressed by Chhasatia and Bhailalbhai Patel and in their address 
they had pressed the voters of the Kshatriya community to vote for respondent 
No. 1 as Kshatriina and also to vote for Bhailalbhai Patel, the other Swatantra 
party candidate. 


16. It is alleged that Annexures A, B, C, D, and E were distributed by the agents 
of respondent No. 1 with his consent at all the meetings and conventions held by 
the respondent No, 1 and his agents with his consent. 


17. The petitioner has, therefore, alleged the corrupt practices as under: — 


(i) Appeal on the ground of religion, caste, community and race; 

(11) Appeal to and use of religious symbols; 

(111) Undue influence by direct and Indirect interference on the part of the 

candidates or his agent with the consent of the candidate with the 

free exercise of any electoral right, by attempt to Induce the electors 
to believe that they may be rendered an object of divine displeasure 
or spiritual censure (by alleging that it would be a sin not to vote for 
respondent No. 1); 


(iv) Attempt to promote feelings of enmity or hatred between classes of the 
citizens of India on the ground of religion, race, caste and community. 


These allegations, therefore, over corrupt practices as contemplated by section 
123 clause (2) read with proviso (2), clause (3) and clause (3) (a). 


18. As against this petition, respondent No. 1 has filed written statement Exh 
fi Respondent No. 1 has not admitted that in the parliamentary Constituency for 
which he was a candidate, 60 per cent of voters out of the total number of voters 
belonged to the Kshatriya community. He has denied the allegation that 
Natversinhaji Solanki, Bhagwansinhji Chhesatia and others were the heads and 
leaders of eminence of the Kshatriya community. He has denied in details the 
facts asserted in the petition regarding the attempt on the part of the petitioner 
to make out the said persons as leaders of the Kshatriya community 


19. With regard to the allegations made by the petitioner, that In various meet- 
ings and conventions, respondent No. 1 and persons named in the petition had 
appealed to the voters to help the candidature of the first respondent on the ground 
of religion caste or community, Respondent No. 1 has dealt with in his written 
statement In details the allegations in this respect and denied all the allegations In 
respect thereof, whereby the petitioner tried to make out that the respondent 
No. 1 or his agent with his consent had committed any of the corrupt practices 

20. Regarding his own statement Annexure 'A’ with the petition resnnnU«r,t 

1 t^t by this statement an appeal was made to the Kshatriya on the 

ground of religion, caste or community, to vote for him. He has denied that anv 

To tSST £ MrtaV™ rf h rd3£ S ^Li 

SOMA™" 51 ™ ' Tfftul“r GofrfYho' KsSra,"' It'S $£ sj 

that the said expression was used for exciting the Kshatriyas in the name of religion 



3956 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 8 , I962/AGRAHAYANA 17 . 1884 [Part II- 

or for exciting their religious feelings and thereby to promote any feeling of hatred 
between different classes of citizens of India as alleged. He avers that the expres- 
sion “JAY SOMNATH” Is only a national call and only an expression of greeting 
and thut he had used the expression “JAY SOMNATH” in the said Annexure ‘A’ at 
the end only as a greeting, just as the expressions “Ram Ram”, “Jar Sltaram" and 
“Jay Swaminarayan” are used as expressions of greetings. He has further stated 
that the Somnath temple Itself, which is the source of inspiration of the 
words “Jai Somnath” has undergone well-known historical vicissitudes and has 
been reconstructed by a temple committee under the encouragement of Late 
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel by the Government of India, and the opening ceremony 
of the reconstructed temple was performed by Dr. Rajendra Prasad. President of 
India. The respondent No. 1 therefore, avers That the Somnath temple itself la 
a national institution and the words “Jay Somnath” inspired by the said temple 
are only a national call and the words “Jay Somnath” are therefore just like the 
words “Jal Hind” used by Indians as a common phrase of greeting. 

21. Respondent No. 1 has also denied in details all the allegations made by the 
petitioner regarding the use of the word ‘DHRUVA’ and words “STAR OF 
DHRUVA” in the leaflets B-l to B-8 and other leaflets relied upon by the petition- 
er, He further denies that by the use thereof an appeal on the ground of religion 
was made. Respondent No. 1 avers that the word ‘Dhruva’ has no religious signifi- 
cance and that it carried no religious appeal Kshatriyas or to Hindus, He further 
avers that the reference is only to the star of "Dhruva” the pole star. This star 
Is well known for Its stationary character and other character as mentioned in the 
various leaflets and that the word “DHRUVA” has been used onlv to signify the 
qualities of resoluteness and stead-fastness; that, by using the star of “Dhruva” 
the Swatantra party only tried to claim that it was as resolute and steadfast as 
that star. 

22. Regarding Annexure C and C-l with the petition, the leaflet and its 
publication in the paper, the respondent No. 1 states that this leaflet was published 
by Solankl, who was the Secretary of the Swatantra party, because a very dis- 
paraging cartoon showing respondent No, 1 riding a donkey was published in some 
papers. In the election propaganda, the Congress propagandists were making dis- 
paraging and unworthy remarks against the respondent No. 1 and the said Annex- 
ure ‘C’ published by Solanki was intended as a r -ply to such cartoon and such 
unjustifiable propaganda. Respondent No. 1 states that on a proper construction 
thereof, no part could be said to be objectionable as an election propaganda and 
that it was neither an appeal to the Kshatriyas to vote on the ground of religion 
or community, nor was it intended to promote feelings of enmity or hatred be- 
tween any community, class or race. The respondent No. 1 denies that he had 
given consent to a publication or distribution of the said statement, 

23. In short, the respondent No. 1 has denied all allegations and averments 
connected with this Annexure C and C-l in details. 

24. Regarding the Annexure ‘D’ the respondent No. 1 in para 21 of his written 
statement denied all the allegations. However as stated above, I need not elabo- 
rate on it, as at the trial petitioner has not relied on this Annexure for making 
out any ground of attack. The same being the case with annexure 'E\ I do not 
think it necessary to state the say of the respondent No. 1 in his written statement. 

25. Regarding the averment of the petitioner of the various conventions of the 
Gujarat Kshatriya Mandal, the respondent No. 1 admits that those conventions as 
shown were held, but denies that in the said conventions, he or the said Sclanki 
or Chhasatia or Chhatrasinha Atalia were present. He gives all the details in 
para 27 of his written statement regarding the places where himself and the other 
were present, For himself, he has stated that he was present only at the conven- 
tion at Cambay. He also clarifies the position that all the places where the peti- 
tioner has described conventions to have been held were not conventions. All 
these details I do not think It necessary to go into at this stage. When necessary, 
it will be convenient to deal with it under the respective issues. 

26. As regards Annexure *F’ to the petition, the respondent No. 1 denies that 
the alleged conventions were sponsored or held at his instance or with his consent. 

He also denies that any of the speakers In such conventions had appealed to those 
present to vote for the respondent No. 1 as a Kshatriya. He also in para 28 of his 
written statement contended that the word “DHARMA” used in the context means 
only “DUTY” and not “Religion” and 'Kshatriya Dharma’ does not mean the 
religion of Kshatriyas, but only means duty. In the said para, he has denied the 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 19G2/ACRAHAYANA 17, 1884 3957 

Interpretation placed by the petitioner on the words "Jai Somnath” regarding the 
leaflet annexure ‘P’ and the use thereof. 

27. Respondent No. 1 in paras 29 and 39 of his written statement in details has 
made denials and also made his own submissions on the matters referred to in 
para 19 of the petition, which deals with the above-referred comments. 

28. In reply to paras 20 and 21 of the petition respondent No. 1 has stated that 
the averment in the petition that other conventions were held in the towns men- 
tioned therein, was not correct and that at most of the places mentioned therein, 
no convention was held. He further denies that in many of the alleged con- 
ventions referred to, he or Solanki or tho said Chhasatia was present. He 
admits, however, that he was present only at Anand or Vadod convention and 
at Matar and also gives the details about the places where the other persons named 
were present, hut denies these persons having made speeches as alleged. 

29. In para 22 of the petition, the petitioner has given a long list of the places 
where the meetings were alleged to have been held by the Swatantra Paksh. The 
respondent No. 1 in reply thereto in para 33 of his written statement has contended 
that, except one meeting at Navli the other meetings, were not held on the alleged 
dates. He admits having attended some of the meetings mentioned. He also 
admits some of the meetings having been attended by Chimanbhai Dadubhai 
Desai, who is his election agent, but affirms that none of the meetings was attended 
by the said Solanki. The respondent No. 1 denies that the said meetings were 
sponsored at his instance or with his consent. He further denies that the said 
Solanki is his agent. The respondent No. 1 in para 34 of his written statement 
denies that the said Solanki or anyone ever appealed to the voters to vote on the 
ground of the respondent No. 1 being a Kshatriya. It is his case that both 
Chimanbhai Desai and Solanki whenever they had appealed they had appealed to 
the voters to cast their votes for the candidates of the Swatantra party. He denies 
that the Annexure ‘G’ to the petition was published or distributed with his consent. 

30. As regards Annexure ‘H’, respondent No. 1 has stated that he shall rely for 
the true meaning and interpretation thereof, when it is produced, but he denies 
that in the meeting held thereafter, he or the said Solanki or Chhastia had 
appealed to the Kshatriya voters to vote for him. 

31. Referring to para 24 of the petition where In the leaflet Annexure T is 
mentioned, respondent No. l’s ease is that such a leaflet was published and circu- 
lated by the Secretary of the Swatantra party, but it was not at his own instance 
or with his consent. lie denies the fact that out of 15,000 persons, who were alleged 
to he present, about. 5,000 to 6,000 voters were Kshatriyas. He denies that either he 
himself or the said Chhastia or Bhallalbhai Patel had in the course of their 
speeches at the meeting held, after the notices Annexure T made any appeal to 
voters to vote for the first respondent as a Kshatriya, 

32. In reply to para 25 of the petition, respondent No. 1 has denied that 
Annexures A, B, C, D, & E were distributed by any agent of his with his consent 
in all the meetings and conventions alleged by the petitioner. In short, he denies 
that he or his election agent or any of the agents or any supporters committed any 
corrupt practice, He also denies that any corrupt practice was committed with 
his consent. He further denies as alleged that the corrupt practice prevailed so ex- 
tensively that the election was not a free election. 

33. Respondent No. 2 has filed her written statement Exh. 7 in reply to the 
petition, which fully supports the petition and I do not think it necessary to state 
the contents thereof. 

34. The following issues have been raised for consideration and determination 
of the various contentions raised by the parties. I may say that the issues which 
were first raised were recast and I shall he dealing with the Issues as recast, for 
the determination of the various contentions raised by the parties: — 

1. Whether the petitioner proves that respondent No. 1 or his agents with 

his consent or knowledge, published, circulated or distributed all or any 
of the statements, leaflets and booklets annexed to the petitioner others 
that are produced on the record, during and for the purposes of the 
election campaign? 

2. Is it proved that anv of the contents of such statement, leaflets and book- 

lets had the effect of exercising undue influence by way of threat, 
terror, intimidation or compelling inducement so as to amount to 



. 8. ■ /AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Pakt II- 


direct interference by respondent No. 1 or his agent with his consent 
or knowledge, with the free exercise of electoral right of voters? 

3. Is it proved that any of the contents of the said statements, leaflets or book- 

lets amounted to an appeal to voters, by the Respondent No. 1 or his 
agents with his consent, to vote or refrain from voting on the ground 
of his religion, race, caste or community for the furtherance of the 
prospects of his election and for prejudicially affecting the election of 
Respondent No. 2? 

4. Is it proved that the use of the word “Dhruva” with the symbol of the 

star or the use of the emblem of ‘Somnath’ amounted to use of a 
religious symbol? 

6. If so, is it proved that the Respondent No. 1 or his agent with his consent 

or knowledge used or appealed to any of the said religious symbols 
for the furtherance of his prospects of the election or for prejudicially 
affecting the election of Respondent No. 2? 

<5. Is It proved that the contents of the statement ‘A’ and the leaflet ‘C’ 
annexed to the petition have the effect of promoting feelings of enmity 
or hatred between different classes of the citizens of India on the 
ground of religion, caste or community? 

7. Is it proved that Respondent No. 1 or his agents with his consent or 

knowledge promoted feelings of enmity or hatred between different 
classes of the Citizens of India on the ground of religion, caste or 
community by publishing and circulating the statement annexure ‘A’ 
with the petition and the leaflet annexure ‘F’ with the petition or 
by orally referring to the expression 'Jai Somnath’ In their speeches 
in the meetings referred to in the petition? 

8. Is it) proved that the Respondent No. 1 and his agents with his copstent 

or knowledge appealed to the voters, in their speeches in the meetings 
and conventions mentioned in the petition, to vote or refrain from 
voting on the ground of his religion, race, caste or community for 
the furtherance of prospects of his election and for prejudicially 
affecting the election of Respondent No. 2? 

9. 1st it proved that the result of the election had been materially affected by 

any corrupt practice committed by Respondent No. 1 or his agent with 
his consent or knowledge and committed in the interest of the Res- 
pondent No. 1? 

10. If any of the alleged corrupt practice Is proved to have been committed 

by the Respondent No. 1 or his agent with his consent or knowledge, 
is it further proved that but for the votes obtained by the Respondent 
No. 1 by such alleged corrupt practice the Respondent No, 2 would 
have obtained a majority of the valid votes cast? 

11. What order? 

35. My findings are; — 

1. In the affirmative only in respect of annexures A, B-2, B-3, B-5, B-6, H 

& I. In the negative in respect of all the rest. 

2. In the negative. 

3. In the negative. 

4. In the negative in respect of the word "Dhruva” with the symbol of the 

star. In the affirmative in respect of the emblem of ‘Somnath’, but It 
does not affect the election. 

5. In the negative. 

0. Not pressed. 

7. Not pressed. 

8. In the negative. 

9. Not pressed. 

10. Not pressed. 

11. As per order. 



Bec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 19G2/AGRAIIAYANA 17, 1884 3959 


Reasons 

30. Before I take up the respective issues and the facts concerned, it will be 
convenient to deal with the general priciples of law and the provisions of the Re- 
presentation of the People Act, 1951 as it stands amended on the date of this 
petition and having a bearing on the contentions raised in it. 

37. As mentioned hereinabove, the petitioner has tried to challenge this petition 
only on the grounds of corrupt practices of (1) undue influence on the part of Res- 
pondent No, 1 or his agent or his supporters with his consent, as contemplated 
by Section 123 (2) read with proviso (a) (ii), that is to say, inducing or attempting 
to induce a voter to believe that he will become or will be rendered an object 
of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, though I may say that the pleading of 
the Petitioner on this point Is not as specific or dear as it should be: (2) appeal 
by the Respondent No. 1, his agents or his supporters with his consent to vote or 
refrain from voting on tnc ground of his religion, race, caste, community as con- 
templated by Section 123 (3) of the Act; (3) usfe of and appeal to religious symbol 
as contemplated by section 123(3); (4) attempt to promote feelings of enmity 
or hatred between diiferent classes of the citizens of India on grounds of religion, 
race, caste and community as contemplated by clause 3(A) of Section 123. 

38. It will be seen from the above mentioned relevant provisions of section 123 
that the corrupt practices referred to therein shall be deemed to be corrupt prac- 
tices for the purposes of the Act, whether they are committed by a candidate 
himself or his agent or by any oth^r person. But the mere proof of these facts 
would not entitle the petitioner to have the election of the successful candidate 
set aside, he has to further show that he is entitled to do so as laid down by sec- 
tion 100 of the said Act. The relevant provisions of that section that has a bear- 
ing on corrupt practice read as follpws: — 

“100. Grounds for declaring election to be void: — 

(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2)' if the tribunal is of opinion: — 

(a) 

(b) That any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candi- 

date or his election agent or by any other person with the consent 
of a returned candidate or his election agent, or 


(c) 

(d) that the result of the election, In so far as It concerns a returned 

candidate, has been materially affected: — 


(i) 

(11) By any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned 
candidate, by an agent other than his election agent, or 

(Hi) 

(Iv) 

the tribunal shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void. 

(2) If in the opinion of the Tribunal, a returned candidate has been guilty 
by an agent, other than his election agent, of any corrupt practice, but 
the Tribunal is satisfied:— 

(a) that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election by the 

candidate or his election agent, and every such corrupt practice was 
committed contrary to the orders, and without the consent, of the 
candidate or his election agent; 

(b) that the candidate and his election agent took all reasonable means 

for preventing (he commission of corrupt practices at the election; 
and 

(c) that in all other respects the election was free from any corrupt 

practice on the part of the candidate or any of his agents, then the 
Tribunal may decide that the election of returned candidate is not 
void. 



3960 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


The important points to notice are:— 

(i) That so far as the ground (b) is concerned, the mere proof of the com- 
mission of a corrupt practice by the candidate, his election agent or any 
other person with the consent of either of them, without any refe- 
rence to the effect caused on the result of the election by adoption of 
such corrupt practice, is enough to set aside the election. But when 
any other person or even an agent commits corrupt practice in the 
interests of the returned candidate, the election can be set aside only 
if the further fact is proved, that by such corrupt practice, the result 
of the election so far as it concerns the returned candidate is mate- 
rially affected. The effect, therefore, is that if the Petitioner succeeds 
in establishing that Respondent No. 1 or his election agent or any 
other person with the consent of either, has committed even one of 
the corrupt practices alleged, the election shall have to be held to be 
void, apart from the fact whether the commission of that corrupt 
practice had any material effect on the result of the election or not. 

(H) The other important aspect to be noticed is that even if the petitioner 
were to establish that any of the persons who supported the candi- 
date, is his agent within the meaning of an agent as understood by 
election law, which aspect, 1 shall be dealing hereafter, still to succeed 
in having the election declared to be void, It will have to be further 
proved that such agent committed the corrupt practice with the con- 
sent of the candidate or his election agent. So, the important ingre- 
dient after the amendment of section lz3 and section 100 is the proof 
of consent to the commission of the corrupt practice, if it is done by 
any other person, then the candidate himself or Ms election agent. 
The term ‘any other person’ would include even an agent, other than 
the election agent. Several acts have been alleged in this case to have 
been done by persons other than the Respondent No. 1 and Ms election 
agent and by the party or other organisations in the Interest of the 
Respondent No. 1 and it has been argued before me that they were 
the acts of his agents but I will deal with these questions of ‘agency’ 
and of ‘consent’ when I go to discuss Issue No. 1, as they have a 
direct bearing on the subject matter of that issue, 

(iii) There is, however, another Important legal position which is necessary 
to be referred to before I go to discuss the issues and the evidence 1 
and that is the question of the nature of the election proceedings and 
the standard of proof required to establish the charges of corrupt 
practice. It is well-settled now that the charges of corrupt practice 
are quasi-criminal in character and the standard of proof required in 
order to establish a charge of corrupt practice in an election petition 
should be the same as in a criminal case. A number of authorities 
have considered and laid down the dictum regarding this important 
legal position and I will refer to a few important ones: — 

(1) Harish Chandra Bajpai V. Triloki Singh 12 E.L.R. 461 (B.C.). Charges 

of corrupt practice being quasi-criminal in character, the allegations 
relating thereto must be sufficiently clear and precise to bring home 
any charges to the candidates. 

(2) Jayalakshnii Devamma V, Janardhan Beddi 17 E.I.R. 302 (Andhra 

Pradesh High Court). Charges of corrupt practice are quasi-crimi- 
nal in character and must be proved by evidence of a conclusive 
nature. 

(3) Dharanidhar Mohapatra V. Pradipte Kishore Das 17 E.L.R. 427 (Orissa 

High Court). Section 106 of the Evidence Act is not applicable to 
the proof of corrupt practices. The provision that applies is the 
proviso to section 103 which lays down that the burden of proof of 
any particular fact Reg on that person who wishes the court to 
believe in its existence, 

(4) Jagan Prasad Rawat V. Krishna Dutt Paliwal 20 S.L.R. 443 (Allahabad 

High Court). It Is the duty of the Petitioner to prove that ground 
of, corruption affirmatively and for that purpose he has to rely, first 
and last, on the strength of Ms own evidence and not on the weak- 
ness In the evidence of the Respondent. 



Sic. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER S, 1902/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1fl84 3961 


(5) V. E. Raju V. V. Ramchandra Rao 21 E.L.R. page 1 (Andhra Pradesh 

High Court). Charges of corrupt practice are quasi-criminal In 
character — must be proved by evidence of a conclusive nature, in 
view of the fact that penal consequences flow from a disqualification 
arising out of a finding that a corrupt practice has been committed. 

(6) Badri Narain Singh V, Karndeo Prasad Singh 21 E.L.R, 64 (Patna 

High Court). Onus of proof lies heavily on the petitioner. A charge 
of corruption is almost similar to a criminal charge — the charge must 
be therefore established by the Petitioner— conclusively and beyond 
any reasonable doubt. The Petitioner’s case must stand or fail on 
its own legs. If the evidence adduced in the case is not sufficient 
to prove the charge, establishes a charge different from the charge 
levelled against the Respondent, the case of the Petitioner cannot 
be said to be proved and the election cannot be set aside. 

(7) Amjad Ali V. Nammul Haque 21 E.L.R, 345 (Assam High Court). 

Section 90 of the Act provides that the procedure to be followed is 
that applicable to a Civil Suit. That Section, however, does not 
indicate or lay down what should be the standard of proof neces- 
sary to hold a charge of corruption to be sustained. Procedure is 
something different from standard of proof. 

In criminal trial, there is no onus on the accused to prove his innocence 
and the same principle will apply to an election case where charges 
of corrupt practice are made — charges of corrupt practice are quasi- 
criminal in character. 

Evidence capable of doubtful interpretation will not answer the charges. 

(8) S. Kanadaswami V. S. B. Adityan 21 E.L.R. 435 (Madras High Court). 

Though the procedure followed in election inquiries in Civil In form, the 
trial is a Criminal trial in substance, especially in view of the 
results and consequences that follow from the decisions in election 
petitions. Simply because the procedure to be followed In Civil in 
form, It does not follow that the amount of proof required for 
bringing home the charge to the Respondent, is reduced to that of 
an inquiry Tn a purely Civil proceeding as to give room to the theory 
of the balance of probabilities or shifting of the burden of proof. 
It is not open to Petitioner to urge that if he has proved a prima 
facie case against the Respondent, it is for the Respondent to rebut 
the case made out against him. 

There is no burden on the Respondent to prove anything, the burden lies 
heavily on the person who alleges corrupt practice to prove It, thel 
petitioner cannot simply prove certain suspicious circumstances and 
then call upon the person charged to explain those circumstances on 
the ground that those fact about which suspicion has been caused 
are within the special knowledge of the accused person. 

(9) Sangappa V. Shivamurthiswamy A.I.R. 1961 Mysore 106. 

Charges of corrupt practice are quasi-criminal in character, Having regard 
to the grave consequences the proof to be produced in support must 
be sufficiently clear, unequivocal; suspicion being plainly insufficient, 
although the election Tribunal or a court investigating into the truth 
of the charge may not be bound by the strict practice applicable to 
criminal case, 

(10) Ahmedmiya Sherumiya V. Chippa Ibrahim Nuraji 17 E.L.R. 218 
(Bombay High Court), 

Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act 1951 must be strictly 
construed in favour of the person against whom the charge is pre- 
ferred. Charges of corrupt practice must be strictly proved; and if 
there is any reasonable doubt, the benefit qf that doubt must be 
given to the person against whom the charge Is made,. 

(11) Lachman Singh Gill V. Harparkash Kaur 22 E.L.R. 249 Punjab High 

Court. 



3962 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 19G2/ AGRAHA YA NA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


The onus of proving corrupt practice lies on those who assert their com- 
mission and they have to be established beyond the possibility of a 
reasonable doubt. The evidence in their support need not neces- 
sarily be direct, but It Is well settled that circumstantial evidence 
and the inference deducible therefrom must be such as to lead to 
the only reasonable conclusion of the commission of the corrupt 
practices alleged. No conjecture or surmise however attractive or 
even plausible can take the place of proof, and If two equally re- 
asonable Inferences or conclusions are possible, one innocent and 
the other guilty, the former should normally prevail. 

39. A large number of election Tribunals have also followed these principles 
in matters dealt with by them, but I do not think if necessary to quote any more 
decisions. On behalf of the petitioner and Respondent No. 2, it was urged that 
in view of section 90 of the Representation of the People Act providing a procedure 
applicable to Civil Proceeding, the principles applicable to criminal proceedings 
shotuld not be applied and considerations that arise In a criminal Trial have no 
place in the proceedings before the Election Tribunal. But as pointed out above 
the concensus of opinion ol almost all the High Courts and the [Supreme court is to 
the contrary and as this aspect of law has an important bearing in the considera- 
tion of the matters before me, 1 have dealt with it at length to indicate many of 
the facts of this Important question as established by decisions of the various High 
Courts and the Supreme Court. Section 141 of the Representation of the People 
Act 1951 clearly shows the grave consequences that follow if a person is either of 
certain offences under the Penal Code as mentioned in clause (a) of that section 
or when a person is, upon a trial of an election petition under Part VT, found 
guilty of any corrupt practice. Both these persons are put on the same footing 
by those provisions Words like 'guilty 1 and ‘trial’ are used in clause (b), which 
indicate that the nature of the proceedings contemplated by sub-clauses (a) and 
(b) are to be treated as of similar nature, as same grave consequences follow on 
the proof of either and therefore the standard of proof that would be required for 
proving the guilt under sub-clause (a) and that under sub-clause (b) should be 
the same. I, therefore, prefer to follow the concensus of opinion as Indicated by 
the various rulings referred to above. ' I shall examine the facts and legal position 
in the instant case in the light thereof and will be referring to one or more of 
these principles laid down by the above rulings. 

40. I will now take up the consideration of the issues. At the hearing, the 
learned Advocates for the petitioner and the respondent. No. 2 very fairly stated 
that they have not been able to prove facts which would justify ' their pressing 
issues Nos. 6-7, 9 and 10. So the only issues which are pressed and on which 
arguments have been advanced are issue Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8. So I shall only 
be dealing with these issues Nos. 1 to 5 and 8. 

41. Issue No. 1. — This issue I will deal with in two parts (i ) the question as to 
who are proved to be the agents of respondent No. 1 and iii) what statements, 
leaflets and booklets are proved to have been circulated by the respondent No. 1, 
his election agent or agents with the consent of either the respondent No. 1 or 
his election agent, 

42. Before I go to the question of fact of agency it is necessary to determine 
what is meant by an ‘agent’ so far as the election law is concerned. A large 
number of authorities were cited at the Bar on this point may, however, observe 
that this point need not be elaborately discussed because, as already mentioned 
under section 100, clause (b), what is required to be proved before an election 
can be set aside on the ground of any corrupt practice by even an agent is, that 
it was done with the consent of the candidate or his election agent, the mere 
fact of the person being an agent will not be enough to fasten the guilt on the 
candidate. In election proceedings, the word ‘agent’ has been given a wider 
connotation than under the common law. The doctrine of constructive agency 
is recognised in election law and every person who works or canvasses for the 
candidate with his knowledge or consent are held to be agents of a candidate. 
There are rulings which have held that, if a candidate is set up by a party, the 
party itself as well as its prominent members must be held to be his agents, 
actual appointment of the party organisation or members as his agent need not 
be proved. It would be sufficient to show the relation and the recognition by 
the candidate of the acts of such person or even the absence of prohibition, It 
has also been laid down that ‘an association of persons’ or a ‘society’ or a ‘political 
party’ and its prominent, members, who set up the candidate sponsor his cause 
and work to promote his election prospects may apply be called the ‘agent’ of 
the candidate. Vide the cases of Triloki Singh V, Shivrajwati Mehru 16 B.L.R. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA: DECEMBER 8 , 1902/AGRARAYANA 17, 1884 3963 

234 (Election Tribunal, Lucknow). Sudhir Laxman Hendre V S A Dance 
17 B.L.R. 373 (Bombay High Court) and Nani Gqpal Swami Vs.' Abdul Hamid 
Choudhu. y 19 E.L.R. 175 (Assam High Court). Those are one set of rulings 
which support the above observations relied upon by the petitioner and respondent 
No. 2, But at the same time, other important principles laid down by a series of 
decisions regarding this question of ‘agency* have to be remembered that a candi- 
date set up by a party cannot be held responsible for all that the members of 
the party did in furtherance of the interests of tile party organisation as a whole, 
unless the participation therein of the particular candidate expressly or by neces- 
sary implication is proved. All the members of the party cannot be held to be 
agents of the candidates set up by the party; agency has to be established as 
required by law, It is also laid down that if it can be established from circum- 
stances that the candidate had knowledge of the fact that a newspaper, which 
is the organ of his party, and that the article contained certain imputation and 
if he did not take any steps to stop publication, his consent to the publication 
can be inferred. But knowledge of the contents subsequent to its publication 
does not impose the duty on a candidate to publish some repudiation of the allega- 
tions contained in the publication or load to an inference that be had consented 
to the act prior to the publication. The publication of an offending article in a 
paper or a leaflet, proved to have been circulated and is read by the public would 
be sufficient publication in the eye of law to constitute corrupt practice alleged, 
provided it is further found that the said publication was at the instance or with 
the consent of the candidate. The real point is that the publication must be 
proved to be with the consent of the candidate. Vide the cases of Badri Narain 
Singh V. Ramdco Prasad Singh 21 B.L.R. 64 (Patna High Court), Rustom Satin 
V. Dr. Sampoornanand 20 E.L.R, 221 (Allahabad High Court), Biswanath 
Upadhaya, V. Haralal Das 16 B.L.R. 400 at pages 406-407 (Assam High Court) 
and Nani Gopal Swami V. Abdul Hamid Choudhary 19 E.L.R. 175 (Assam High 
Court) . 


43. That brings me to the consideration of the fact as to who could be called 
agents of respondent No. 1 In the instant case. I will touch this point very 
shortly as the repl question of importance is of proof of consent and not who 
were the ‘agents’ of respondent No. 1. It is urged on behalf of the petitioner that 
the ‘Swatantra Party' and the ‘Gujarat Kshatriya Sabha’ and the prominent 
workers and members of both should bo deemed to be the agents of the respon- 
dent No. 1 for the purposes of the election. I think this submission is well- 
founded. It has been established and acknowledged that the respondent No, 1 
was the candidate of the Swatantra Party and had fought the elections such. It 
is further established that an association known as the ‘Kshatriya Sabha’ for the 
uplift of the Kshatriya in particular, had been in existence from about 1945 and 
that the respondent No. 1 was a prominent member thereof being its first presi- 
dent and had continued his relations therewith till the date ot election. It is- 
further established that this association had taken part in the election propaganda- 
to support the Swatantra Party candidates including the respondent No, 1. I 
have, therefore, no hesitation in holding that the Swatantra Party, its members 
and committees and the ‘Kshatriya Sabha’ and some of its members are to be 
considered as ‘agents' of the respondent No. 1. As to which particular members 
the ‘Kshatriya Sabha’ or the other individuals named and alleged to be the agents 
of the respondent No. 1 were his agents in fact, I shall deal with hereafter. But." 
the mere fact of the said ‘party’ or ‘Sabha’ or their members or committees hav- 
ing been held to be respondent No. l’s agent, as seen above, will not be enough, 
to fasten upon the respondent No. 1, the guilt, if any, of any corrupt practices 
done by these agents, unless the consent or knowledge of the respondent No. 1 
is established for the acts which are alleged to amount to corrupt p: actices, done 
by either of the agents, 

44. That brings me to the next stage of consideration of the question which of 
the booklets, leaflets and statements alleged by the petitioner to constitute cor- 
rupt practices were published or circulated with the consent or knowledge of 
respondent No, 1. This necessarily takes us to the consideration of the question 
of ‘consent’ first. The parties have cited, before me a number of authorities on 
this point also. I shall, however, refer to some of the important ones out of them. 
It is a well-established principle that so far as the election law is concerned, 
consent may be either express or may be implied or may be assumed by neces- 
sary implication and an act can even be presumed to be an act of the principle, 
if the act is subsequently ratified. But clear and unequivocal proof in that respect 
is essential and the mere fact that a candidate did not disown an act is not suffi- 
cient to prove that he had ratified or given consent to the same. Vide the case 
of Katarla Takandas V. Pinto Frederick Michael 18 I.L.R, 403 (Election Tribunal, 
Surat). The case of Sarladevi Pathak V. Birendra Singh 20 E.L.R. 275 (Madhya 



3964 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, I962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


Pradesh High Court) lays down that consent is a question of fact in every case- 
it may be expressed or implied: it may be inferred from the acts and conduct of the 
returned candidate or from other facts and circumstances established i n the case 
But the mere fact the acts of other persons helped and supported the election 
campaign of the returned candidate, would not be enough, even non-interference 
with the activities of the persons who may be acting in support of lus canvass 
will not without something more, be sufficient to saddle the returned candidate 
with the liability for the corrupt practices committed by them. The case of 
Biswanath Upadhya V, Haralal Das 16 E.L.R. 405 (Assam High Court) has laid 
down that the knowledge of the contents of a leaflet, or an article, subsequent to 
its publication, does not impose a duty on a candidate to publish some repudiation 
of the allegations contained in the publication or lead to an inference that he had 
consented to the act prior to the publication, even though such publication may 
be by an agent of the candidate. The same ruling establishes that the consent 
of the candidate has to be incurred from the circumstances and it may be direct or 
indirect and it is a question of fact, which must be established by the petitioner. 

45. With this back ground of the position of law, I shall now deal with the 
respective leaflets, statements and booklets relied upon by the petitioner as con- 
stituting the corrupt practices alleged and the guilt whereof the petitioner wants 
to fasten on the respondent No. 1. With the petition, the petitioner has produced 
as annexures, statements and leaflets, the contents whereof go to formulate, 
according to him the corrupt practice alleged by him. As regards these annex- 
ures, the respondent No. 1 in his evidence Exhibit 137 has admitted that he had 
himself got the statement Annexure ‘A’ printed and published and that this state- 
ment was also circulated and explained in many of his meetings. He further 
admits that he had seen Annexures B-2, B-3, B-5, B-6, F, H and T having been 
distributed. He further states that so far as the Annexure ‘G’ was concerned, 
though it was printed it was never distributed, as the programme was cancelled! 
He emphatically denied having ever seen the leaflets Annexures B-*, B-4, C, D and 
E. He also denies knowledge of these having ever been distributed. He also 
denied to have seen any other leaflets having been distributed or having come 
to his knowledge. Therefore, it may be taken that the respondent No. 1 had 
knowledge about the contents and distribution of the Annexures B-2, B-3, B-5, 
B-6, F and H. But the question still remains as to whether it has been sufficient- 
ly established that there was consent either direct or implied to all the contents 
of those Annexures being printed and published Annexures B-2 ; B-3, B-5, B-6 
are the publications by the Swatantra Paksh or its election campaign committees. 
B-2 is the manifesto of the Swatantra Paksh itself and the respondent No. 1 
has admitted this fact and its circulation. He also has categorically stated that 
as this was the manifesto of his party, it was his manifesto also. Therefore, if 
anything from this manifesto can amount to corrupt practice, the consent of the 
respondent No. 1 would be assumed to have been given to this publication and 
he would also be guilty of the corrupt practice. It may be noted that so far 
as this annexure is concerned, the impunged portion is the last page, whore the 
symbol of the party is indicated and where the words “DHRUVANO TARO” and 
the five attributes have been stated. The impunged portions on Annexures B-3, 
B-5, B-6 are also the use of the words ‘DHRUVANO TARO’. Whether this use 
of the wo’ds ‘DHRUVANO TARO’ and the attributes as mentioned above amounts 
to corrupt practice or not, will be the subject matter of another issue. I think 
so far as these Annexures B-2, B-3, B-5 and B-6 are concerned, there is ample 
evidence to hold that there was implied consent, if not express, of the respon- 
dent No. 1 to the use of the words ‘DHRUVANO TARO’ and the five attributes 
referred to above. This is particularly so because he has categorically admitted 
the manifesto Annexure B-2 to be his own manifesto and which bears the words 
‘DHRUVANO TARO’ and also the five attributes. It is of course a matter of 
contention between the parties as to whether these attributes apply to the star 
or to a religious entity in Hindu mythology known as ‘BHAKTA DHRUVA’. This 
will be considered at the proper stage. So far as Annexures H and I are con- 
cerned, there is nothing that can be said to be amounted to a corrupt practice and 
nothing is alleged. 

48. Annexure ‘F’ however, stands on a different footing, Annexure ‘F’, over 
and above using the words ‘DHRUVANO TARO’ has used the words ‘JAI SOM- 
NATH’ and some emblem which is alleged to be the emblem of God Somnath. 
Therefore, this requires a special consideration. Whether the use of these words 
and emblem amount to corrupt practice or not is a different question and will 
be considered later. The only question to be considered here is whether the con- 
sent of the respondent No. 1 before this leaflet was published, should be taken 
do have been proved or assumed, So far as the respondent No, 1 himself is 
concerned in the Gujarati deposition of hid Exhibit 137, his statement regarding 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER * 1962/ AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 3965 


this leaflet ‘F’ is that this leaflet may have been distributed. In his evidence, 
there is nothing from which it could be said that the lespondent No. 1 even 
by implication be taken to have given his consent to the use of the emblem 
or the words ‘JAI SOMNATH’ on this particular leaflet. Even if we examine 
evidence of the other witnesses of the respondent as well as of the petitioner, 
I do not find anything or any circumstances established which, by necessary 
implication, can be said to prove his consent to the use of this emblem or 
the offending words. My attention was drawn to the fact that in his leaflet 
Annexure ‘F’ which is a notice for calling meeting by the ‘Gujarat Kshatriya 
Sabha’, it has been mentioned that several persons will remain present at tne 
various meetings to be held at various places and in the persons so named, 
respondent No. 1 has also been named and this is a circumstance which shows 
that his consent must have been taken and that is sufficient to establish his 
consent or knowledge of the full contents: of this leaflet. I do not accept this 
contention, In the first place, merely because the name had been mentioned, 
it does not mean that he had consented to what the leaflet shall contain. At 
the most, his consent would be assumed to be present at the various places 
mentioned. But even there, if we go to the evidence of the respondent No. 1 
Exhibit 137, we find that he has stated, in the notice of meetings, the names of 
several persons were mentioned but as a matter of fact, all those persons did 
not attend all the meetings held But even if for argument’s sake the consent 
to attend the meetings is assumed, it does not help the petitioner to establish 
the respondent No. l’s consent to the use of the offending words or the emblem. 
It is further contended that the respondent No. 1 Ex. 137 has admitted in his 
evidence that he had never taken any objection to the notices convening the 
meetings and therefore the respondent No, 1 cannot escape the effect of the 
use of the emblem and those words. But I find that this contention also is: not 
well-founded because, as already pointed out by me while discussing the law 
on the point, it has been decided by more than one High Court that the subse- 
quent knowledge of such a publication could not fasten the corrupt practice, 
if any, on the candidates and also that there was nothing in law to cast any 
burden on him to disown or repudiate any such offending publication, to save 
the candidate from the effect of that publication, if it amounted to corrupt prac- 
tice. It is now well established that his knowledge or implied consent should 
he positively established before the offending portion was published. For the 
purposes of this issue, therefore, on the principles laid down by a largei majo- 
rity of the High Courts and the Supreme Court that in proceedings before the 
Election Tribunal, the standard of proof required is the same as in a criminal 
proceeding and that the onus of proof lies heavily on the petitioner and further 
that there is no burden on the respondent if he came to know about it later to 
repudiate the alleged offending portion thereof, I find difficult to hold that the 
petitioner has succeeded in bringing home the knowledge or consent of the 
respondent No. 1 regarding the use of this emblem and the words in this parti- 
cular leaflet. I will refer to this leaflet again when I will consider the question 
of the use of this emblem and the words ‘JAI SOMNATH’ when 1 deal with 
the question of the corrupt practice alleged for use of an appeal to religious 
symbols. But here, I hold that the use of an appeal to religious symbols. But 
here, I hold that the use of this emblem and the wo-ds have not been proved 
to have been made either with the knowledge of even the imp bed consent of 
the respondent No. 1. 

47. There is one more annexure on which strong reliance is placed by the 
petitioner for alleging one of the corrupt practices and that is the Annexure 
*C\ for which also respondent No. 1 is tried, to be made responsible, The res- 
pondent No. 1 has said that he had not seen it during election time. No; ques- 
tion have been asked in cross-examination challenging him on this statement. 
Annexure ‘C’ is a statement of Natwarsinh Solanki Exhibit 139, the Secretary 
of the Kshatriya Sabha and the organisation Secretary of the Swatantra Party, 
He Is one of the witness of respondent No. 1. He has explained the reason why 
he had published this statement. But from his evidence, it cannot be said that 
consent of respondent No. 1 was obtained to publish this statement. Even no 
suggestion is made to him that it was published with the consent or knowledge 
of respondent No. 1. My attention was drawn again to the evidence of Solanki 
Exhibit 139 where he has said that he used to send the leaflet that he himself 
prepared to the candidate and therefore it must bring home the knowledge 
or implied consent of the respondent No. 1. But I do not think it can be so 
held as it cannot establish even implied, consent because the knowledge of the 
fact of such a pamphlet before it is published must be established, if respondent 
No. 1 is to be held responsible. There is nothing to prove that respondent did 
or must have come to know about prior to its printing or publication. It was 



3966 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/ AGRAriA YANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


election time and the candidates must have been moving from place to place 
So, there is nothing to show even that respondent No. 1 and Exhibit 139 Solanki 
were even at one place during the time it was written and published. So, there 
is no evidence whatever to hold beyond reasonable doubt that respondent No. 1 
must have consented or must have come to know about it from which implied 
consent could be presumed. As already discussed, knowledge subsequent to 
publication and non-repetition, cannot help the petitioner to make out 'consent" 
as required by law. I, therefore, hold that it is not proved that that Annexure 
*C’ was prepared or published! with the ‘consent’ express or implied of the 
respondent No. 1. 

48. There are two more annexurcs to the petition, a booklet Annexure 'D" 
and a leaflet Annexure ‘E’, The learned Advocates for the petitioner and res- 
pondent No. 2, at the time of the hearing, had stated at the Bar that they were 
not relying upon these two an nexures for any purpose and, thereto: e, they need 
not be taken into consideration for the decision in this matter. 


49. Over and above the annexures with the petition, the petitioner has tried 
to rely upon, particularly on four more documents, to prove coriupt practice® 
alleged by him; (1) Exh. 28, a notice inviting the Kshatriyas to a meeting at 
Cambay on 30th January 1962 by the Gujarat Kshatriya Sabha, Nadiad; (2) 
Exh. 29 is another notice for invitation to a meeting at village Thasara, dated 
23rd January 1962 issued by the President, Thasara Taluka Kshatriya Sabha; 
(3) a statement made by one Chhatiasinh Atalia published under his own signa- 
ture which is Exh. 83; and (4) a report appearing in the Gujarati paper 
“GUJARAT KESARI”, dated 12th April 1961. This report purports to be report 
of the speeches made at village Saloon in the convention of the Kshatriya Sabha 
by various speakers, particularly by Chhatrasinh Atalia and Udeslnh Vadodia. 
I will deal with the first two together and the other two separately. 

50. These Exhibits 28 and 29, the notices for the said two meetings are 
particularly relied upon on behalf of the petitioner for the use of the emblem 
and the words ‘JAI SOMNATH’ at the top of these printed leaflets. It is alleged 
on behalf of the petitioner that these are religious emblems and therefore their 
use amounts to a corrupt practice. All the reasonings and discussions stated 
he-einabove regarding Annexure ‘F’ apply mutatis mutandis to these two leaf- 
lets also and I do not think it necessary to report them over again here, and, 
for the same reasons, I hold that there is nothing to prove the consent, express 
or implied, of the respondent No. 1, to the use of publication of these two 
leaflets. 


51, As regards Exh. 83. so far as the respondent No. 1 is concerned, he haa 
denied having seen this statement made by Chhatrasinh Atalia any time at the 
time of the election. At this stage, what I am concerned with is to find whether 
even if it Is assumed for argument’s sake that the respondent had come to know 
about it any time subsequent to its being printed ana published, whether there 
is any evidence to show or circumstances established which would prove that 
the respondent No. 1 had knowledge of this statement being published or it 
could be said that he had given an implied consent. As I have already stated, 
so far as he is concerned, he has definitely denied all knowledge of it. My 
attention was drawn to the fact that though in the beginning, Natwarsinhji 
Solanki Exh. 139, the organising Secretary of the Swatantra Paksh at the time 
of the election, tried to evade any knowledge about this statement Exh. 83 of 
Atalia, ultimately in cross-examination he has 1 admitted that this statement was 
paid for by the Swatantra Paksh. He also admits that he had seen it during 
the election time at Nadiad, but he states that he had not prepared the contents 
thereof and that it must have been sent to him for being printed by Chhatrasinh 
Atalia. It is also urged that the witness Ex. Ill for the petitioner has proved 
that this Ex. 83 was got printed and paid for by Solanki. Even if these facts 
are given full weight, I fail to see how under law it can be established that 
this leaflet Exh. 83 was printed and got published to the knowledge of the 
respondent No. 1 or his implied consent could be assumed. There is nothing 
in the evidence of the witnesses of the respondent No. 1 or those of the peti- 
tioner himself of his own evidence, which' would go to prove such circumstances 
or fact of knowledge. Merely because It is proved that this particular pam- 
phlet was paid for by the Swatantra Paksh, it cannot be said that it is enough 
to fasten respondent No. 1 with consent to publish the contents thereof, as 
required by law. The rulings referred to above would clearly go to show that 
ehe evidence on record is not enough to impute ‘consent’ to the respondent No. 1. 
particularly the ruling in the case of Badri Narain Singh V Kamdeo Prasaa 
Singh 21 E.L.R. 64 (Patna High Court), where it is held that a candidate set 



Sec. 


3(u)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 3, 1962/AGR AIIA YANA 17, 1884 3967 


up by a party -annot be held responsible for all that the members of the party 
did m furtherance of the interests of the party organisation as a whole unless 
the participation therein of the particular candidate or his election agent 
expressly or by necessary implication, is proved. All the members of the party 
cannot be deemed to be agents of the candidate set up by the parly There is 
yet a further fact to be noted and that is this that Atalia himself was the candi- 
date for the Legislative Assembly of the Swatantra Paksh in the same area 
Therefore, it is not unjustifiable to presume that in order to advance his own 
candidature, he got this statement published under his own signature. As 
already discussed, it is very important to bear in mind that all the ingredients 
which would go to make the respondent No, 1 guilty of a corrupt practice, must 
be proved beyond reasonable doubt, and if there is probability that the candi- 
date attacked could be innocent of this allegation of consent, direct or implied 
to the publication of this statement, which is alleged to be a strong proof of 
the corrupt practices complained of, then the Tribunal should give that benefit 
to the candidate. I feel that here there are facts proved on the record which 

§ 0 to show that it is improbable that the consent of the respondent No. 1 had 
een taken for publication of the contents of this statement Ex. 83, or that he had 
knowledge of such a statement going to be published. It is veiy important 
to note that here the respondent No. 1 is tried to be held guilty of a corrupt 
practice having been committed by another person, that is, Chhatrasinh Atalia, 
and for the purposes of this point, I assume that the publication of the contents 
of the said statement does amount to a corrupt practice, the principles laid down 
by all the High Courts require that this fact of the direct or implied consent 
of the respondent No. 1, a successful candidate, must be proved beyond reason- 
able doubt. In this respect, my attention was drawn to one other statement of 
Natvarsinh Soianki Ex. 139. He has slated that the main work that he attend- 
ed to was for carrying out a programme on behalf of the Swatantra Paksh, as 
he was the organising Secietary, and for that purpose, he prepared the propa- 
ganda literature and he has further stated that he used to send his literature 
to the candidate of the Swatantra Paksh and to the members of the election 
campaign committee. From this, it has been argued that it is not possible to 
believe the respondent No. 1, when he says that he had not seen this Exh, 83. 
But I do not think that this statement of Soianki Ex. 139 goes to refute the 
statement of respondent No. 1. What Soianki Ex. 139 had said that is that 
Whatever literature be -prepared was sent to the candidates. He has definitely 
stated in his evidence that this statement was not prepared by him. There is 
yet one more significant statement of Soianki Exh. 139, which clearly goes to 
show that even it is assumed that this Ex, 83 was prepared by Soianki Ex, 139, 
he has stated that he never used to take the consent of any one before prepar- 
ing this propaganda literature. In order to specify further as to which literature 
he had prepared for such propaganda, he has stated that Annexures B-2, B-4, 
B-5, B-6, C and F were prepared by him. The other leaflets of statements 
were not prepared by him. From the above discussion, it is clear that the 
petitioner has not succeeded in establishing as required by law that there was 
either direct or implied consent or knowledge of respondent No. 1 about the 
contents of Exh. 83 to be published either by Chnatrasinh Atalia or the 
Swatantra Paksh. 


52. That brings me to the constitution of Exh. 156. Strictly speaking, no 
question about any consent of respondent No. 1, implied or express, in the 
statements made by the speakers in the convention held as far back as 10th 
of April 1961 arises. Respondent No. 1 himself has stated that he had never 
attended this convention. Whether these speeches would amount in law tt> 
corrupt practice or not, is a different matter. But suffice it to say that there 
is nothing to show in the first place that these persons Udesinh Vadodia and 
Chhatrasinh Atalia were the agents in the eye of law in April 1961, by any 
stretch of imagination, for respondent No. 1 as a candidate for the ensuing 
election. As a matter of fact, it is in evidence that upto January 190P , he had 
all his moorings with the? Congress and he decided to leave Con mess and 
become a candidate for the Swatantra Paksh on the 4th of January 1962. There 
is nothing to challenge this position. The word "candidate” has been defined by 
section 79, clause fb) of the Act. It states: — 


“ ‘Candidate’ means a person who has been or claims to have been duly nomi- 
nated as a candidate at any election, and any such person shall 
be deemed to have been a mndidnte as from the time when, with 
the election in prospect, he began to hold himself out as a prospec- 
tive candidate.” 



3968 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


Therefore, it cannot be said that he was a candidate at all, nor is there any proof 
to show that by April 1961 he had held himself out as a prospective candidate 
for the Swatantra Paksh. Therefore, no question of consent by a candidate to 
corrupt practice arises, nor can it be said, by any stretch of imagination, that 
either Udesinh Vadodia or Chhatrasinh Atalia was his agent for the purposes of 
the election. As a matter of fact, from the arguments on behalf of the petitioner, 
I had gathered an impression that he relied upon this newspaper report, only 
for the purposes of showing that the Kshatriya Sabha was trying to create a 
communal-atmosphere and not as an instance of corrupt practice committed 
by respondent No. 1, either by himself or by his agents with his consent. But 
even if It be so, as I have discussed above, no consent, direct or implied, Is proved 
and I also hold that Chhatrasinh Atalia or Udesinh Vadodia was not his agent at 


So. Here, 1 may very shortly deal with the aspect us to who are proved to be 
the agents of respondent No. 1. As I have already observed, this question of 
agency is not really of any importance, while considering the grounds on which 
the election is sought to be declared to be void under section 100 of the said 
Act, and the real point of Importance is the ingredient of consent. All the same, 
as this point has been argued at some length, I will shortly deal with it here, 
Regarding the contention that the Swatantra Party and the Kshatiya Sabha and 
its committees should be construed to be the agents of the respondent No. 1. I 
have already dealt with. Coming to the individuals, if we go to the petition, as 
it was originally filed, it was alleged in paragraph 4 that Natwarsinh Solanki 
(Ex. 139) and Ehagwanslnh CV’asstia were the agents and active supporters of 
the first respondent. 1 have no hesitation in holding that Natwarsinh Solanki 
was, in the eye of law, the agent of respondent No. 1, he being the organising 
Secretary of the Swatantra Party and the Secretary Party and the Secretary of 
the Kshatriya Sabha. Bhagwansinh Chhasatia does not play any prominent part, 
so far as the documentary evidence goes, inasmuch as there are no statements 
or leaflets published by him, contents whereof are tried to be fastened on 
respondent No. 1, but this person is supposed to have made speeches in cer- 
tain meetings of the Kshatriya Sabha. Exh. 139 Solanki has admitted the fact 
that the said Chhasatia was also one of the campaign committee of the Swatantra 
party at Anand. It is also proved that he was a leading member of the 
Kshatiya Sabha, Therefore, under law, he is to be considered as an agent for the 
respondent No. 1 and I hold It accordingly. The petitioner by an amendment in 
the petition for the first time brought on record Chhatrasinh Atalia and he is also 
alleged to be an agent of respondent No. 1. It is obvious that he hr.s been 
brought on to record because of the statement Exh. :3 that Ii - bad nuVistmd, 
to which 1 have referred to hereinabove. I am included to think Lhat because of 
the language and the contents of this leaflet which, if proved, and accepted as 
binding on the respondent No. 1, was likely to be most damaging to his cause, 
Chhatrasinh Atalia und this statement have been tried to be brought in at a later 
stage. This I have mentioned only as a background to the question under my 
consideration as to whether Chhatrasinh Atalia can also be held to be an agent 
of respondent No. 1. It may be noted that Chhatrasinh Atalia was himself a 
candidate for the Swatantra Paksh and that therefore he was interested, in order 
to advance his own cause or improve the prospect of his election, to carry on a 
propaganda. There is no such clear or definite evidence to show that he had 
tried to advance the election prospect of the respondent No. 1 in any way. As 
I have already pointed out from the decisions, all the workers or members of the 
political party to which the candidate belongs do not necessarily become his agent. 
There is something more that is required to be established, to constitute him to 
be his agent. I, therefore, hold that Chhatrasinh Atalia could not be held to be 
the agent of the respondent No, 1, 

54, Therefore, I find on Issue No. 1, that the annexures B-2, B-3, B-5, B- 6 , H 
& I are proved to have been plblished and circulated with the consent or know- 
ledge of the respondent No, 1, Annexure ’A 1 was published and circulated by 
the respondent No. 1 himself, I further hold that none of the other statements, 
leaflets, booklets, were published or circulated either by respondent No, 1 himself 
or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of the respondent 
No. 1 or his election agent. 

55. Issue No. 2 — Issue No. 2 deals with the corrupt practice as contemplated 
by section 123, sub-clause (2). As the pleadings stood in the petition, It was 
tried to be made out that by consenting or conniving at the publication of the 
Annexure ‘D’ & ‘E’, the respondent No. 1 had committed the corrupt practice of 
undue Influence by creating fear in the mind of the electors. This aspect of 



Sec, S(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 3, 1962/ACE AHAYANA 17, 1884 3969 


the case, as I have already observed, has been Riven up. By an amendment, the 
petitioner then tried to bring In undue Influence of a different nature by adding 
the followng passage: 

“and associating the respondent No. 1 with high dignitaries and religious 
persons and/ or declaring a sin to vote otherwise unduly influenced 
the voters.” 

Nothing has been proved and no arguments were advanced on this aspect of the 
the case also. The learned Advocate, however, at the time of arguments, made 
out quite a different case under this issue and contended that the following state- 
ment made by Chhatraslnh Atalia In Ex. 83 amounted to undue-influence falling 
in the proviso (a)(i) of section 123(21, inasmuch as there was a threat of 
ostracism given by that statement. That impugned statement reads in Guja- 
rati as follows: — * — 


The free translation thereof in English is : 

“The enemy Is clever. Efforts will be made to prepare persons to throw 
bones In l his 'Yagna’ or ours. I have faith that no such monster will 
arise and yet if anybody turns unfaithful, we will try persuasion, but, 
if he does not listen, whoever he may be we will (* ) 

The actual words in dispute are these last words (* ). It is 

contended on behalf of the petitioner that here there was a threat given that 
if any Kshatriya were not to act as directed by the Swantantra Pakash, he 
will be ostracized or excommunicated. On the other hand, it has been argued 

on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the words (* ) do not mean 

as suggested on behalf of the petitioner. What was intended to be conveyed by 
these words was that the person will be vanquished or defeated. In support of 
this contention, these very same words us:-d in this statement itself in the earlier 

portion thereof are relied upon. There, it has been stated (* ) 

which means that by securing all the seats the congress may be defeated 
in Gujarat. There is a lot of strength in the arguments advanced on be- 
half of the respondent No. 1. I do not think that the said impugned phrase 
amounts to a threat of ostracism or ex-eommunleation. It is also to be noted that 
this is a new case tried to be made out on behalf of the petitioner which can- 
not be allowed and much more so in an election petition where even an amend- 
ment would not be allowed, if thereby a new ground, on which the election is 
attacked, is tried to be introduced. Therefore, both on merits ajid under law, 
I find that there Is no foundation for this contention of the petitioner. There 
is a further fact to be noted. As I have already held, this statement Exh. 83 of 
Chhatrasinh Atulia has not been established to have been published with the 
consent, express or Implied, of the respondent No. 1 and also that Chhatraslnh 
Atalia is not the agent, of respondent No. 1. Under all these circumstances, I 
hold issue No. 2 in the negative. 


56, Issue No. 3 . — The corrupt practice which is alleged and which Is the sub- 
ject matter of this issue, is the corrupt practice falling within the purview of sec- 
tion 121J(3) of the Act. The said clause reads as under:— 

"The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the 
consent of a candidate or his election agent to rote or refrain from 
voting for any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, 

community or language for the furtherence of 

the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially 
affecting the election of any candidate”. 

A part of this very clause (3) refers to the use or appeal to religions symbols 
or national symbols but that will be for consideration under issues Nos. 4 and 5. 
The petitioner’s case so far as it relates to the subject matter of this issue Is con- 
cerned is that the respondent No. 1, who is kshatriya by community and who is 
one of the leaders of that community, was a candidate for the Swalantra 
Party, and he had appealed by issuing Annexure ‘A’, a statement, to the Kshatriya 
voters of his Constituency, who were in majority in the said Constituency, to vote 
for him on the ground of his being a Kshatriya and had thus committed the 
alleged corrupt practice. It is alleged that not only the respondent No. 1 him- 
self had done so, but that his agents and other persons with his consent had 


* — * Matter in Regional Language. 



3970 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


published statements and leaflets appealing to Kshatriya voters to vote for him on 
the ground of his being a Kshatriya and for this the impugned documents mainly 
relied upon are the annexure ‘O’, the statement of Natwarsinha Solanki Exh. 139 
the witness for the respondent No. 1 and the statement of Chhatrasinha Atalia 
Exh. 83. 

57. After this section was amended, two important changes, so far as it affects 
the instant case, have been brought about in cluase (3) thereof. One is that the 
•word ‘systematic’ before the word 'appeal' has been dropped and the word ‘his’ 
has been added before the word ’religion'. The effect of this change is that 
now it is not necessary for the petitioner to prove that the appeal complained 
about was ‘Systematic’ 1 and it would be enough even if one such ‘appel’ is 
established but at the same time by the introduction of the word 'his', any general 
appeal to religion, race, caste, community or language will not be enough to bring 
home the charge and it is necessary for the petitioner to prove that the respondent 
No. 1 had made such an appeal on the ground of his, that is, the candidate’s own 
religion, race, caste or community. The other ihing of importance to note is that 
it is the appeal to vote on the ground of religion, race, community or caste of 
the candidate, is prohibited and not an appeal to a caste, community or race 
or a mere reference to religion is prohibited. I may observe here that under this 
issue we are concerned with the alleged appeal on the ground of caste or com- 
munity and not on the ground of religion, because in this case both the candidates 
are Hindus and It was urged before me and it could not be said that there is any- 
thing like a separate Khhatriya religion different from the Hindu religion or the 
religion of respondent No, 2 who belonged to the patidar community, The re- 
ligion of both is the Hindu religion. The aspect of appeal on the ground of re- 
ligion will, therefore, properly be the subject matter of issue Nos. 4 and 5. 

58. It is the case of the petitioner and the respondent No. 2 that the ‘Kshatriya 
Sabha’ (I will refer to it as the ‘said Sabha’ hereinafter), which was an associa- 
tion mainly formed for the benefit of and which had its activities confined to the 
uplift of the Kshatriyas had before the election carried on propaganda on com- 
munal grounds about a year before the elections. This body had pledged support 
to the Swatantra party and its candidates and had worked in co-ordination 
with each other. The election agent Chimanlal Dadubhai Desai Exh, 138, witness 
for respondent No. 1, was one of the members of the election campaign committee 
of the Swatantra Party and was also a member of the Kshatriya Sabha, Natwar- 
sinha Solanki Exh, 139, who was the Secretary of the said ‘Sabha’ was the organis- 
ing Secretary of the Swatantra Party. All this showed that there was a syn- 
chronisation of activities of the said ‘Sabha’ and the Swatantra Party. The said 
Sabha was by and large a communal or sectarian body of the Kshatriyas and 
this Kshatriya Sabha had carried on election propaganda on communal lines 
and therefore they had surcharged the atmosphere with communal feelings by 
the time the elections were held and therefore the three impugned documents 
referred to above and the contents thereof should be examined ngainst this back- 
ground to determine whether they amount to appeals on the ground of community 
or caste. According to them, these three documents definitely constitute appeal 
on the ground of community or caste. 

59. In order to support this part of their case the petitioner has led oral and 
documentary evidence. The petitioner has produced several copies of the news- 
papers in which the reports of the meetings held by the said ‘Sahha’ has been 
reported. But it was contended on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that the news- 
paper reports appearing in various papers is no good evidence unless the reporters 
themselves are examined before the Court and petitioner’s witness Exh. 107 
the Editor of Swatantra Sarjan has not supported the petitioner and none of the 
reporters of the reports appearing in several issues of the said paper has been 
examined and, therefore, they should not be looked into. I do And that there is 
strength in this argument. No authority is needed to support this proposition hut 
if any is needed, it is Sangappa V. Shivamurthiswamy A.I.R, 1961 Mysore, 106, 
So, so far as these copies of the Swatantra Sarjan are concerned, the petitioner 
cannot make use of them for the purpose of these reports. These issues of the 
said paper however may be relied upon by the petitioner so far as the use and 
publication of the words “Dhruvano Taro” is concerned. The petitioner has proved 
the reports in two issues of th» paper Gujarat Kesari, regarding the meeting 
at Bavad, and salun of the said Sabha dated 29th March 1961 and 12th April 1961 
respectively and are Exh. 170 and 156. These paper reports do show that from the 
time the said Sabha decided In the meeting at Bayad on 29th March 1961 to untie 
its moorings from the Congress and had carried on propaganda against it, There 
is, however, nothing objectionable in that, by Itself. But these two paper reports 



^Ec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1902/AGRAHAYANA 17. 1884 397 ! 


and the other leaflets on the record show that several meetings of the said ‘Sabha’ 
were held to carry on the propaganda against the congress and that also proves 
that these meetings were of the Kshatriyas. The petitioner has examined himself 
-and other witnesses on the point and has also cross-examined the witnesses of the 
respondent No. 1 on this point. 

60. I do not think it necessary to enter into evidence in details or any long 
discussion regarding this part oi the petitioner’s case, I find that it is sufficiently 
established on record, the facts, of the close co-ordination between the two bodies, 
that is the Swatantra party and the said ‘Sabha’, the ‘Sabha’ being a body of the 
Kshatriya and its bias for that community and the fact of the said ‘Sabha’ having 
carried on a propaganda to join and support the Swatantra Party. A feeble 
attempt was made on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that the Kshatriya Sabha 
was not a communal body and its activities were not confined to the uplift of the 
Kshatriyas only. But the show was given up by the respondent No.l’s own 
witness Solanki Ex. 139, who categorically admitted that it is true that the Kshat- 
riya Sabha had all its activities directed for end in the interest of the Kshatriyas. 
It is true that the respondent No, 1 has proved that the constitution of the said 
‘Sabha’ was changed some time before the election to enable any Indian Citizen 
to become a member thereof, who held views which coincided with the aims 
and objects of that body and that there were a few non-kshatriya members, 
including the election agent of the respondent No. 1 ChimanJal Dadubhai Desai 
Ex. 138, but to my mind the essentia] character and the fabric of this body was 
communal and all its activities continued as mentioned and admitted by its own 
Secretary Natwarslnh Solanki Exh. 139, to be for the benefit of the Kshatriyas, 
Another attempt that was made on behalf of the respondent No. 1 was to urge 
that there is nothing like g Kshatriya community. It is a nebulous term which 
includes many communities like the Rajputs, Kolis, Buraiyas, Patan- 
wadios, Thakors, Phils, Rabaiics etc. I see no merit in this contention also. Hindu 
law has always recognised the four 'Varnas’ or Caste, vide Hindu law by Sir. 
Dinshah Mulla, P. J. 12th edition. Even if Kshatriya is not a community, it is 
definitely a caste and that makes no difference to the result, as section 123(3) 
prohibits appeal on the ground of caste also. At best, the various classes of groups 
mentioned above, that is Rajputs, Rajputs, Barraiyas, and others are sub-castes or 
sub-divisions of the Kshatriya community. Therefore, I do not accept both these 
contentions raised by the respondent No. 1. There is ample evidence oral and 
documentary to show and it is an admitted fact that the Sabha and Swatantra 
party worked hand in hand and that meetings and conventions were held by the 
said ‘Sabha’ of the ‘Kshatriyas’ in respect of the coming event, the elections to 
be hel ■ in 1962. I have, therefore, no hesitation In accepting this part of the 

petitioner’s case. But, at the same time, it Is to be observed that there Is no 

prohibition against any non-political body of any community or caste to carry 

on a propaganda to prepare its caste or community to support any political party 

and its candidates, for the election or even to join hands with such political party 
in carrying on its propaganda, nor is there a prohibition to appeal to a caste or 
community to vote for any particular candidate so long as it does not amount to 
an appeal to vote for a particular candidate on the ground of his being of a par- 
ticular caste or community. 

01. On this point, the respondent No. l’s case, general by speaking, apart from 
the two contentions already dealt with by me above, is that the contents of neither 
of the three documents, that is, annexure ‘A’, Annexure ‘C’ or Ex. 83, amount 
to any appeal on the ground of caste or community. Of course, regarding the 
latter two, he has also assailed them on the basis that even if they do amount 
to such an appeal, they are not his acts nor the acts of any other persons, with 
his consent, and therefore cannot affect his election, This latter question 1 have 
already dpalt with and decided under issues Nos. 1 and 2. But apart from that, 
on the merits of the contentions regarding their contents, the question falls within 
the scope of this issue; and though I have held that these two latter documents 
Annexure ‘C’ and Ex. 83 could not be said to have been published with the con- 
sent, express or implied, of respondent No. 1 and therefore cannot afford a. 
ground under section 100 of the Act to declare the election of respondent No. 1 
to be void. I deem it expedient also to make a finding on the merits of the con- 
tents of these two documents also and will do so at its proper place. 


62. With this back ground of facts and circumstances, I now take up for con- 
sideration the contents of the most important document on the record Annexure 
‘A’ on the question as to whether it does or does not amount to an appeal to 
vote on the ground of community or caste. 



3972 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER H. 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1881 [Part II- 


63. The admitted facts are that the said statement was prepared and published, 
by the respondent No. 1 himself and thousands of copies were not only distributed 
but the contents thereof was explained and referred to by him in several meetings 
at different places during his election tours. So, if, the contents of this statement 
are held without any reasonable doubt to be an appeal to vote for him on 
the ground that he is Kshatriya then that fact alone would prove to the hilt all 
the ingredients of the corrupt practice under sectltion 123 (3) being an appeal 
to vote on the ground of caste or community and that fact by itself would be 
sufficient to hoid the election of respondent No. 1 to be void under section 100 
of the said Act. 

64. The impugned portion of Annexure ‘A’ is the portion that follows the 
caption “hast good-bye to Congress”, Both sides have interpreted this portion 
to support their respective cases and have made their submissions at great 
length which I shall now discuss. For the sake of convenience for reference,. 
I have numbered the paragraphs of the said 'Annexure A’ in red ink. 

65. On behalf of the petitioner and the respondent No. 2. it was urged that 
under law even a part of the statement can amount to the appeal on the ground 
of religion, caste or community, and clause (3) of section 123 should not be 
interpreted in a narrow way to mean that the whole app.al would be only on 
the ground of religion, caste or community, and the appeal would not be hit by 
it if it contained other matters also. Reliance was placed on the case of 
Nazumal Haque V. Amiad Ali 18 E.L.R. 253 at 268 and 271 (Election Tribunal 
Gauhati), where it is decided that section 123(3) of the Representaiion of the 
people Act 1951 should be construed according to the natural meaning of the 
words used in sub-section. The view that the sub-section should be interpreted 
in a narrow sense as if the words used were ‘only on the grounds of caste’ race, 
community, or religion is not correct. This ruling was reversed in appeal by 
the Assam High Court vide the case of Amjal Ali V. Nnzmul Haque 21 E.L.R. 
345 (Assam High Court), but the point above referred to was not touched by the 
Appellate Court nor was it confirmed. But I am in agreement with the argu- 
ment on behalf of the petitioner to the extent that it is not the law that merely 
because the statement refers to matters other than the prohibited appeal also, 
it will not be hit by clause (2) of section 123. Inspite of such other matters 
being there if the statement amounts without any reasonable doubt to the 
prohibited appeal, it would be hit by clause (3) of section 123. The learned 
Counsel for the respondent No. 1, however, urged that before any decision can 
be reached on the point as to whether that particular part impugned amounts 
to an appeal on the ground of religion, caste or community, the statement should 
-be read as a whole. He also stressed that mere reference to or appeal to a caste 

or community is not barred under the said provision of law and the appeal to 
be hit by it must be found to be on. the ground of caste or community. Reliance- 
was placed by him on the case of Chayur Ali Khan V. Keshav Gupta 10 E.L.R. 
154 (Allahabad High Court). The ratio decidendi of the said ruling is the same 
and I find myself also in agreement with these principles. The ruling in Sudhlr 
Hendr V. Sbripat Dange A.I.R. 1960 Bombay 249 17 E.L.R. 373 was relied upon 
by the learned Advocates for the petitioner and respondent No. 2 for the obser- 
vations made by Their Lordships to the effect that in ascertaining the true 
nature of the statement made, the Court has to take into consideration all 
surrounding circumstances including the occassion when it was published or made, 
the person against whom it was made, the person making It or publishing It, 
the audience or readers to whom it is addressed. This ruling dealt with the 
case falling under clause (4) of section 123, but I agree that In general effect 
these remarks may apply to a case under clause (3) of section 123 also. It is, 
however, to be noted that this very ruling also decided that adverse criticism, 
however severe, however undignified or ill-mannered, however regretable it 
might be in the interest of the purity and decency of public life, in relation to 
the political views, position, reputation or action of a candidate, would not bring 
it within the mischief of the statute. It is only when the person beneath the 
politician is sought to be attacked that the mischief Is done. This would support 
the view that if the statement amounts to a mere criticism of the policies of a 
political party regarding religious and communal matters, it would not come 
within the mischief of clause(3) of section 123. There are other rulings which 
directly deal with this point but I prefer to refer to them later. 

66. With this background, I will now deal with the impugned portion of 
Annexure ‘A‘ and the contentions urged on behalf of the petitioner and the 1 
respondent No. 2 In that behalf. It Is urged that the portion of the statement 
prior to the caption "my last good-bye to the congress" is innocuous as It cnly 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER b, 1362, 'AGRA HAVANA 17, 1884 3973 


gives a sort of his own autobiography and the sad story of hig experience and 
connection with the Congress and a crmcjsm of the alleged misdeeds of the 
Congress, This is not objected to, but It is argued on behalf of the pr-litioner 
and respondent No . 2 that this cannot be said about the rest of the portion (paras 
11 to 19 Indicated by numbers in red ink). In para 11, he begins his campaign 
and says that he has left Congress to side with the public and those who are 
truthful are in the right. Then he emphasises a quality of the Kshatriyas when 
he says “A true Kshatriya will not be on the side of injustice. Believing in this 
I left the congress.” It is urged, by this the respondent No.l not only tries to 
extol the Kshatriyas but also emphasises that he is a true Kshatriya. In para 
12, respondent No. 1 draws attention to another quality of the Kshatriyas of 
being fearless when he says: ‘‘I tell all. that it may be others who may be 
afraid, not the Kshatriyas”. By this again not only he praises the Kshatriyas 
of being fearless but also by an innuendp emphasises that he aiso is not afraid, 
being a true Kshatriya himself. In para 13 he says: ‘‘And I am not ashamed 
of the fact that I am a Kshatriya. I do say with pride that Yes I am a Ksha- 
triya, am the descendent of the courageous and have brave Kshatriya like Rama 
and Krishna, am the descendent of great religious entities like Budha and 
Mahavir and am an hei’ - of great personages of their age with the lustre of the 

Kshatriya ruling class (* ...) like Ganuhiji and Sardar. One wh.) follows 

the “(* )” “duties and principles” of the Kshatriyas, is a Kshatriya 

and that way any one can be a Kshatriya. Is is a sin or a stigma in this country 
to be a Kshatriya? No, we are Kshatriyas and have been the protectors ci ihe 
people. We alone know how to win a kingdom, a throne, and also how to give 
them up. The whole history of Bharat, that is India, bears witness to this fact.” 
It is argued that in the first part of this para, he extols himself and tries to 
emphasise his descent from great Kshatriyas and religious entities of the past 
age and also claims to be the heir of the great personages of the present, age. 
By this he wanted to emphasise that he was a Kshatriya of the highest order, 
It is argued this para cannot be construed to mean that he was only praising 
the qualities of the Kshatriyas, 

67. Para, 14 of the Annexuro ‘A’ is as follows: 

“If I am a Kshatriya and Kshatriya are my brethren, then it is natural that 
I will get their support. Bord Krishna lifted mount 'Govardhan’ for 
the protection of the people but every shephred had, all the same, 
given support with the stick. Similarly your support will also be re- 
quired. If such support Is received then there is no doubt that the 
difficulty will disappear? 

On behalf of the petitioner and respondent No. 2, this para, has been attacked as 
the most mischievous part of the statement. It is urged that the language matters 
little, the substance has to be seen and It is nothing but a direct appeal to the 
Kshatriyas to vote for him as he was a Kshatriya, and it become more obvious 
and clear when the last para, is taken into consideration, wherein he makes in 
clear terms on appeal to give their votes. Read in that conjunction the word 

‘Teko’ or support in para. 14 means, he asks support b|y their votes and nothing 

else. It is argued that. this para, read with the last para, by itself is sufficient to 
declare the election of respondent No. 1 to be void. 

08. Para. 15 was not commented upon and it was not urged that it comes within 
the mischief of clause (3) of section 123. So, I do not quote It here. Para. 16 
has been relied upon to attack the election. The heading of that para. Is : “King- 
dom that we have given up; do not want to take back”. The para, reads as under 

“who says we want to regain the kingdoms and the thrones? Sbri Nehru 

is daily worrying about it, but I assure him that to us Kshatrivns 

who have once given over their kingdom and thrones, the very idea 
of regaining them would be obnoxious. But we will not tolerate if 
undesirable persons claim up to be the masters of those thrones, try 
to occupy them, we have never submitted nor shall wc ever submit 
to injustice. This is our pledge and that Js our vow, and the same 
is our support.” 

It was urged that this was a subtle way of appealing to the Kshatriyas by refer- 
ring to the lost powers of the community and extorting them to regain it by the 
democratic way of returning them to power by voting for them and asking them 


(* ) Matter in regional language. 



39 -J 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 19C2/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


successful in the election, This it is contended is clearly within the mischief of the 
provision of law. 

60. Paras. 17 and 18 were not impugned before me on behalf of the petitioner 
or respondent No. 2, But the last para. 19 has been relied upon, the heading and 
the para, reads as under : — 

"Last Request”. 

We have no power, no riches, what .ve have, is only the support of the 
people and their confidence but that is the most valuable wealth. 
If that much ,you give, then the success is ensured. Opportunity 
like this does not recur, so I Lell you, the last time, that do give 
your votes, and also get the votes of others too for us. If not the 
rlower, even the petal thereof may be sent to us with devotion. And 
treating this to be your own work attain victory for yourself.” 

This para read with the paras referred to above are alleged by the petitioner to 
clarify ask the voters to vote for the respondent No. 1 on the ground of his being 
a Kshatriya. My attention was also drawn to the fact that at the bottom of this 
Annexure, there Is the following statement in brackets underneath the signature 
of the respondent No. 1. 

‘‘Shri Ncrendrasinhaji Mahlda, candidate for the Swatantra party for the 
House of the People at Delhi for the Anand Constituency." 

It is contended this clearly drew the attention of the voters to the fact that he 
was himself a candidate and that he had been asking for votes by this statement 
on the ground of his being a Kshatriya. 

70. It was, therefore, urged that the above discussed parts of the Annexure 
‘A’ were clearly hit by the provisions of clause (3) of section 123 and apart from 
any other fact the election should be set aside on this ground alone. 

71. On the other hand, it is urged on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that the 
contents of Annexure 'A' cannot be and should not be held to be hit by clause 
(3) of section 123, because it is not an appeal to the Kshatriyas to vote for him 
as he was a Kshatriya. According to him. it Is a statement he had Issued to 
explain not only the reasons why he had to leave congress but also why he decided 
to oppose It by joining the new party .that had come into existence, that Is, the 
Swatantra party. That the reference to the Kshatriyas and he Is being Kshatriya 
ts an incldentlal reference and when the Annexure 'A’ is read as a whole, it 
cannot be said that it is an appeal to vote for him on the ground of caste or 
community. He further asserted that even the request to vote is not to vote for 
him alone and that, the request is to vote for Swatantra Party candidates, inclu- 
being his contentions and also looking to the law, I have already referred to with 
1-arned Counsel that even the construction put on the various paras was not 
correct and the alleged offending portions should not be interpreted or held to 
have the effect alleged, separate from the context of the whole statement. These 
bing his contentions and also looking to the law, I have already referred to with 
which I am in agreement, that wh m any statement is attacked on the ground of 
it amounting to a corrupt practice under section 123 of the said Act, it is neces- 
sary to take the statement as a whole to determine whether the gravaman of the 
charge is established nr not, Annexure ‘A’ will have to be examined as u vvhole 
to determine the charge. 


72. The learned Counsel had dealt with the statement "Annexure 'A' para by 
para to substantiate Ills client’s say, from the beginning till the end. At the top 
of the main heading it is printed. "I have left Congress to make the voice of the 
people heard”. Then in bolder print the main heading reads. “The statement 
of Shri Narendrasinhaji Mahida, the candidate of the Swatantra party for the 
House of the People”. It was urged by his learned Counsel that the very heading 
shows that, the emphasis was on two aspects and that he wanted to explain his 
conduct of leaving the Congress after a number of years and that he is now a 
candidate for the new political party the ‘Swatantra party’. The heading, there- 
fore, clearly emphasises, it is urged the fact that the intention and object of the 
respondent No. 1 in publishing the statement was to justify his action of leaving 
the Congress and if at all, to campaign for votes as a candidate of the ‘Swatantra 
party’ and not as a Kshatriya. It is in evidence that this statement was published 
and circulat'd In t 1 ^ Tst week of January 1932 and that till 4th January the 
respondent No. 1 was in the Congress fold, he took the decision on that day and 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER S. 1 9G2/ACR AHA YANA 17, 1884 3975 


declared in the meeting of the Kshatriya Sabha held on 4-1-1962 at Nadiad about 
severing Ills connection with ‘the congress’ and that he was accepting the candi- 
dature of the ‘Swatantra party’. 

73. The first para of the statement is as follows: — 

“At present I am moving from village to village, am speaking in meeting, 
am contracting associations and am explaining to the people. In 
Kaira district, I nave rnovou round onen and similarly have gone 
to the extreme North of Gujarat in Kulch, have moved round in 
Saurashtra, and have also gone to the Surat district in the south. 
And yet I find that the view point that I have been able to explain 
to thousands of persons at several places by meeting them, should 
also reach other millions of persons. I cannot go to every nook and 
corner because I have neither time nor facilities. Therefore, this 
statement is sent to you; road it and let others read also. If it is 
necessary to explain it to anyone, you yourself do so, because you — 
every one of the public are my friends. I have sought friendship 
and friendly tie with you, so I entrust this work to each of you. 
I believe that it is your confidence that is my strength." 


It is urged referring to this para that it is obvious from this that the statement 
was intended for the voters of the whole of Gujarat and not to any particular 
community or caste or any particular part of the constituency and that the 
respondent No. 1 sought help and support from the people of Gujarat without 
any reference to caste, creed or locality. 


74. The second para starts with the heading “my mental turmoil”. I do not 
think it necessary to reproduce the whole para here. In this para, it was point- 
ed out that the respondent No. 1 gives in short his activities since 1945-46 and 
emphasises the fact that he has contact with the public since then, that he had 
been to England many years before Independence, then he refers to the fact 
of his business intuition and also his share in pioneering the air services in 
many parts of this country, Then refers to the fact of independence and the 
integration of the States and avers that he too went with the times and the 
changes that happened thereafter. Then introduces the fact of his contact and 
work in Congress and says that he came in contact with leaders like Ravi- 
shanker Maharaj, Shri Kher, Shri Mo arji and other Congress workers big and 
small arc followed the tenets of the Congress and did all to adverse its reputa- 
tion and strength for seventeen years. 


75. In paras 3 and 4 of the said statement, respondent No. 1 express his 
dissatisfaction with Congress and the workers in Congress and says that not 
only he has severed his’ connection with it with great sadness but is now out 
to challenge it and oppose it. He expresses a sort of satisfaction all the same 
that he is not alone in this situation but ther ■ are numerous like him, includ- 
ing Shri Rajagopalachari, a man of great confidence of Mahatma Gandhi, and 
Bhai Kaka the right-man of the late Sardar, who also are experiencing such 
mental turmoil. It is urged, by this the respondent No. 1 draw Ihc attention 
towards the leaders of the Swatantra party and the fact that he was in good 
company in the Swatantra party. 


76. Paras 5 and 6 of the said statement are headed by the caption "The 
virtuousness of the Congress has gone down”. These paras contain the criti- 
cism of the Congress, its acts of commission and omission and the power lust, 
it is alleged that the interest of the public is not looked after and only self- 
interest is protected and advanced at the cost of the public interest. Paras 7, 
8 , 9 and 10 criticise the nolicies of the Congress Government and alleges that 
unnecessary huge and wasteful expenses are made without compunction. That 
there is a tendency to acquire illicit gains, unnecessary new taxes are levied 
on the public and licensing und control system is in full swing which encourage 
black money and the public sutlers; that unnecessary difficulties have been 
created in businesses which encourage and necessitate dishonesty and now they 



plains'* that" by” all these acts of the Government the people’s will and morale 
have been brought down. It was urged that, by these paras the respondent 
No 1 emphasised the points on which the Swatantra party differed from the 
Congress and the Government run by that party and to this there can be no 
objection in law. 



3976 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1 902/ ACR AHA YANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


77. Then comes the part of the statement objected to by the petitioner and 
respondent No. 2. Those paras that have already stated in full while discus- 
sing the arguments on behalf of the petitioner and respondent No. 2 t I will not 
reproduce them here again, but will state only the case and interpretation put 
on behalf of respondent No. 1. 


78 Regarding the heading "last good-bye to the Congress” it is urged that 
this heading shows, what he wants to emphasise in the paras that follow and 
that therefore the contents of those paras must be read in that context and in 
the context of the portion that precedes the heading, It is urged by the learn- 
ed Counsel for the respondent No, 1 that in para 11 the word ‘"Kshatriya” occurs 
for the first time and it is mentioned In reference to and in context with and to 
emphasise the aspect of the injustice being done by Congress Government to 
the people and that he could not therefore remain there and left it to be on 
the side of justice. The respondent No. 1, by advancing this argument, it was 
urged, was trying to justify and give one of the reasons as to why he left the 
Congress, as he wanted to be on the< side of justice and then mentions inciden- 
tally that as a Kshatriya he could not go otherwise. So, here there is no appeal 
or exhortation to vote or do anything to the Kshatrlyas. 

79. Regarding para 12 of the Annexurq ‘A’, it is urged that in this para he 
emphasises the point that once he has left the Congress he does not want to go 
back to it. In short, he wanted to assure the public thereby that he was not 
a person to blow hot and cold or play hide and seek with the public legarding 
his political career. Then he state-; that now he wants to awaken the public 
opinion and make it heard for there is such strength in the public opinion and 
the votes of the public that it can even make Congress to listen to them. Then 
once again he makes a reference to his being a Kshatriya, when he says “others 
may be afraid but not a Kshatriya". He thereby merely wanted to convey that, 
though the Congress is a powerful body and he is now opposing it and working 
against it, he was ndot afraid and thereto emphasise it, his pride of being a 
Kshatriya makes him say that he is Kshatriya and is not therefore alraid. 
Once again, it is urged it is a reference to himself and it contains no exhortation 
to the Kshatriyas to vote for him and it is mentioned only in the context as. 
shown above. 

80, Para 13 of the Annexure ‘A’ makes a reference to himself and his des- 
cent and the latter portion refers to the Kshatriyas generally. It is urged that 
in this para an attempt has been made to reply to the criticism advanced against 
him as a Kshatriya and the Kshatriyas as a class and in doing so he has 
extolled his ownself and the Kshatriyas in general. There seems to be justi- 
fication for this argument as we find that the other political party was publish- 
ing disparaging literature and criticism against the Kshatriyas and respondent 
No, 1. "One such instance at least is referred to in evidence, where the respon- 
dent No. 1 was depicted as the rider on a donkey, the donkey being depicted 
as the Kshatriya Samaj. Any way, the tone; and the language does show that 
the idea behind it was by way of vindication of himself and the Kshatriyas 
against, criticism. It is all the more possibly so, because the ‘Kshatriya Sabha’ 
had already publicly declared their support for the ‘Swatantra Party’ leaving 
the Congress to which thev had in the past two elections given their concen- 
trated support. No doubt in this pa- a there Is a direct reference to himself 
and the Kshatriyas, but I agree with the learned Counsel for the respondent 
No. 1 that there is no exhortation to the Kshatriyas or to any others to vote 
for him because he was a Kshatriya. This para only appears to be a vindica- 
tion of his act of leaving the Congress, as that is his main theme. He was a 
prominent Kshatriya, was a leading member of the Kshatriya Sabha, and he 
had for 17 years appealed for support to the Congress. Leaflets Ex, 53, dated 
19th August 1951, Ex. 55. dated 5th October 1958, Ex. 63, Ex. 65, Ex. 68, Ex. 69, Ex. 73 
show that respondent No. 1 had supported the Congress and had tried to get 
the support for Congress of the Kshatriyas in those years for the previous two 
elections. That he bad done so sometimes in opposition to the wishes of some 
of the Kshatriyas is also obvious from these leaflets. It is no wonder, whereof, 
that respondent No. 1 having appealed for 17 years to the Kshatriyas to sup- 
port the Congress, when he drifted away from that party and wanted to join 
another political party and before he could seek their support for that party, 
he would he hard pressed to explain his position and in doing so he has inciden- 
tally emphasised the fact in this para of he himself being a good Kshatriya 
and the fact that it was no sin to be Kshatriya who had all the qualities and 
achievements at their back as mentioned in the said para, and trios to meet 
insinuations and criticism of the Kshatriyas evoked by the proposed drift from- 
Congress to the other political party. There is yet another fact to the remem- 
bered that this statement as a whole was definitely addressed to and meant. 



Src. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER cs, 1962/AGR AHA YANA )7, 1834 3977 - 


for all and not Kshatriyas alone. He and the Kshatriyas being criticised for 
changing sides, he had to emphasise the qualities of the Kshatriyas and him- 
self in order to win the confidence of the voters other than the Kshatriyas. In 
this para, there is no exhortation at all for anything. 

81. The next conies para 14 which has been the main plank of the case of 
the petitioner and the respondent No. 2. It is urged on behalf of the respon- 
dent No. 1 that in this para by the first line, “If I am a Kshatriya and Ksha- 
triyas are my brethren, then it is natural that “I will get their ' support”, the 
respondent No. 1 only expresses his relief and confidence. It is only an obser- 
vation, He does not ask the Kshatriyas, "you give your votes to me because 
I am a Kshatriyas”. In support of it, the iearned Counsel also pointedly drew 

my attention to the word (* ) meaning ‘their’. Regarding the reference 

to the support by the sticks by the shepherds, it was urged that by that the 
respondent No, 1 only sought support for the Swatantra party and its candi- 
dates and not for himself. Referring to the word 'difficulties’ ( Sankat ), it was 
urged that it had a reference to the hardships he had referred to in the pre- 
ceding paras where he criticised the policy of the Government regarding 
controls, high taxes, black market, disadvantages of co-operative farming, 
disregard to public interest etc. and not to any difficulties of the Kshatriyas in 
particular. 1 find that there is lot of strength in this argument and the con- 
struction put on the para by the learned Counsel for the respondent No. 1. If 
we keep m mind the whole statement, the main heading and the fact that there 
is specific mention to the whole Constituency and to all. the voters in the 
Annexure ‘A’ and if in that context this para is read, to my mind, the stand of 
the respondent No. 1 receives good support. Alter he had referred to the fact 
that he had left the Congress, he refers to the Kshatriyas and their good quali- 
ties and expresses his faith in their support and then by the second sentence 
he exhorts the others to the effect, "I am quite hopeful about the support of 
the Kshatriyas but that will not be sufficient. I will need the support of all the 
shepherds meaning support of all those, other than the Kshutriyas also.” So, 
even if the para is construed to amount to an appeal to voters, I think the 
appeal is to voters other than the Kshatriyas, on the ground that he had left 
Congress for reasons explained and had joined the Swatantra party which had 
the leadership of a highly respected person like Rajaji and also Bhai Kaku, the 
right-hand man of the late Sardar, of which he was a candidate. Looked at 
from this point of view and the construction placed on behalf of the respondent 
No. 1, I think it cannot he held that this para contains an appeal beyond a 
reasonable doubt to the Kshatriyas to vote for him as he is a Kshatriya. It is 
argued by the learned Advocates of the petitioner and the respondent No. 2 
that this para read with the last para makes it clear that he was asking for votes 
and not the support to the Swatantra party, but even it he so, as I have dis- 
cussed above and the contents of this para amount to asking for votes, it was 
an appeal to vote for the candidates of the Swatantra party and not for him- 
self and in any case not on the ground that he was a Kshatriya. 

82. Para 15 of the statement once again is gcneial. He exhorts the Ksliat- 
riyas to be good Kshatriyas and to Brahmins to be good Brahmins and as such 
to all the four known castes, known to Hindu law, the four ‘Vernas’. No com- 
ments were offered on behalf of the petitioner or the respondent No. 2, I also 
find that this para is not within the mischief of any provision of law. Para IB 
refers to another criticism levelled against the Kshatriya rulers. He, however, 
tries to vindicate and says that it is far from being true. At the same time, 
ho emphasises the point that they cannot tolerate wrong persons trying to rule 
over the people. Here the reference is clearly to the Congress Government 
and in the earlier part of the statement, he had tried to establish that the Cong- 
ress Government is not a good Government, It may he that here he refers to 
the Kshatriyas as a caste when he savs, “we will not submit to iniusticc”, He 
does so because he is trying to vindicate Ihe Kshatriva Rulers. The para at 
the most indicates that respondent No. 1 asked the Kshatriyas to oppose the 
Congress. But I find it hard to accept the verv narrow and yet a very loose 
construction tried to be placed on this para by the petitioner as a subtle appeal 
to the Kshatriyas to vote for him because he was a Kshatriya. 

82. Para 17 definitely refers to the general public and expresses his hones 
and desires that the public may try to attain the qualities and character he has 1 
mentioned. Here the writer tries to act down a sort of ideal. So, this again shows 
the statement was meant for and was addressed to the public at large and not 
to one community. In para 18 the respondent No. 1 draws attention of his 


(* ) Matter in regional language. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


readers to the tacts of the new party having been brought into existence by 
Shri Rajagopalachari, who had given a lead aii over the country, and that Bhai 
Kaka had given the call to join it, in Gujarat. So, i n this para, he specifically 
again refers to the Swatantra party and exhorts the readers to support the 
Swata.u a party. It is argued that the words “Purvajoni Pratishta” “the good 
name of the ancestors” can only refer to the Kshatriyas. I once again find 
it difficult to accept this narrow construction. The writer has published this 
statement obviously for all, in para 15 he refers to all the castes and refers to 
the caste system (Varnashram) known to Hindu Law, refers to Brahmins. So, it 
is difficult to think that he refers only to the ancestors of the Kshatriyas. Again, 
even if that narrow construction is accepted, it cannot be hit by clause (3) of 
section 123 because, here he merely if at all asked the Kshatriyus to support 
the Swatantra party, 

84. Then I deal with the last para headed by the words “Last Appeal". 
There can be no dispute that in the para the respondent No. 1 has openly and 
directly asked his r.aders to give their votes and also to help getting votes of 
others. But the questions: “can it be therefore said that this appeal is hit by 
clause (3) of section 123?”. By this para, a general appeal is made to give 
support by giving votes and securing the votes of others. These votes he has 
not sought for himself. He was, if the whole statement is read together, appeal- 
ing for votes to support the Swatantra Party and its candidates and even if he 
is one of them, Ihe votes are asked as such and not because lie is a Kshatriya. 
Even while signing he has made it quite clear that he had signed as a candi- 
c a t. ol the Swata.itia party for the Parliamentary Constituency of Anand for 
tho House of the People. Even the heading at the top in bold prints shows he 
was making the statement as a candidate of the Swatantra party. Therefore, 
this last para also cannot and is not within the rmschief of the provision in 
clause (3) of section 123. 

85. If the annexure ‘A’ is read as a whole and all Us parts are read in 
context with each other, the interpretation placed and the arguments urged on 
behalf of the respondent No. 1 have to be accepted as being In consonance with 
the principles laid down by the rulings referred to above and some others which 
I will refer to hereinafter. The central and main topic or theme of the entire 
statement is the severance of the connection with the Congress and going over 
to the new party in opposition to the Congress, and the main emphasis is, on 
the one hand, the reason why he left it and the criticism of the acts and policy 
of the Congress and the Government run by that party and, on the other, appealing 
to the public including the Kshatriyas to support the Swatantra party and all 
its candidates and the reasons in general why they should d 0 so. Even if we 
look to the various headings under which the several paras discussed ubove have 
been arranged, the same picture emanates. The introductory para states the 
reason why he has published this statement and the reasons given is that he 
wants his message to reach millions of other persons of the public as he cannot 
meet all and personally give It or explain It to them and then the message fol- 
lows. The first sub-head he Rives Is “my mental turmoil” and under it he puts 
three Darns arid explains why and how he feels that way and therein he gives 
generally his contact with the Congress and why he had felt like leaving It. The 
next heading is “The virtuousness of the Congress has gone down”. Under this 
two paras are placed wherein he tries to justify the purport of the heading. The 
next heading is “Galan Tunpo” which means “stranglehold round the neck or 
“strangulation of the neck”. Under this heading, he has placed four paragraphs 
In which the policy of the Government run by the opposite political party, that 
is Congress is criticised. Then five of the impunged paragraphs of the state- 
ment are put under the heading “Last good-bye to Congress”. In the paras under 
this heading the reference to the Kshatriyas is first made, He therein, as discussed, 
expresses his determination not to rejoin congress, and there of course as if to 
give weight to the assurance being a Kshatriya, relies^ on^ ^the virtues 


again becomes more clear when para 16 is read with _ It. As he referred to the 
Kshatriyas, he merely observes that their votes he will get and then exhorts 
others also to vote to secure success. The next heading is “Kingdorn we have 
given up do not want to regain.” Under this, three paras are placed, where he 
again vindicates the Kshatriya rulers against criticism and then maker a general 
appeal and expresses a desire for an ideal and then states how it rould be 
achieved, Under the last heading “Last reauest,” he asked for vote uu the basis 


of a Kshatriya i.e. ot oemg always on uie ui min. ^ 

fearlessness to oppose a powerful opponent. Then tries to vindicate 

himself as a Kshatriya and the Kshatriyas in general by first extolling 

And t.hpn referring to the criticism levelled against them. This 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZET TE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , I962/AGRAIIAYANA 17, 1884 3979 , 


made out in the whole of the statement as a candidate of the Swatantra party. 
So, the structure and fabric of this statement annexure 'A’ are not of an appeal 
to the KshatriVas or to others to vote for the writer as he is a Kshatriya but at 
the woist of an appeal to vote for the candidate of the Swatantra party. The 
Kshatriyas are of course referred to, but it is to be noted that they have been 
referred to when he is trying to meet the criticism or aspersions cast on them by 
the other political party, But even if it is otherwise, even then there can be no 
bar to appeal to the members of a caste to support his candidature as the candi- 
date of the new political party, that is the Swatantra party. 


80. On behalf of the petitioner, reliance was placed on the ruling of Rustem 
Satin v. Dr. Sampoomanand 20 E.L.R. 221 (Allahabad High Court) to urge that 
the statement in the instand case does amount to an appeal prohibited by 
clause(3) of section 123. In that case, a statement was published that there was 
an alliance between the Communist and the Muslim League to make a Muslim 
the Chief Minister of the State and that if the Hindus did not vote for the' 
respondent (who was a Hindu), a Muslim would become the Chief Minister, 
It was held In that case that this did amount to an appeal to the Hindus to vote 
for the respondent and to refrain from voting for the appellant (the communist 
candidate, who was a Muslim), on the ground of religion and community. 1 find 
that the facts of that case and the instant case are very different, (i) in the said 
case the two rival candidates belonged to two different religions and eommuniiies; 
(ii) there was a direct appeal by the Hindu candidate to the Hindus not to vote 
for the other because if he won there will be a Muslim Chief Minister. So, there 
is no doubt that the said appeal was made by the Hindu candidate to the Hindu 
voters not to vote for the other candidate as a Muslim Chief Minister would be i 
thrust on them, and was therefore an appeal on the ground of religion and com- 
munity to vote for himself and not to vote for the other candidate, In our case, 
as discussed, both the candidates belonged to the same religion. There was no 
appeal that they should not vote for the respondent No. 2 because she was a 
patidar, and also as discussed above there was no appeal to vote for the respon- 
dent No. 1 because he was a Kshatriya. I find that on the contrary there are 
other principles decided by this very ruling which go to support the respondent 
No. l’s contentions It is decided therein that an appeal by a prominent Yadava 
*0 his Yadava brethern to do their duty to the country by voting for the Congress 
is an appeal .to a caste or community, it is not an appeal on the ground of reli- 
gion, cps'c or community. Similarly, in our case, even if it is assumed that there 
Is an appeal by a Kshatriya to the Kshatriyas to vote for the Swatantra party, 
it would not amount to be an appeal on the ground of religion, caste or community. 

87. On the above discussion and reasoning, I have preferred to accept the 
interpretation and construction placed on Anncxture ‘A’ on behalf of the respon- 
dent No. 1 and have observed that as such the contents of statement Annexurw 
‘A' or any part thereof cannot be held to fall within the mischief of clause (3) of 
section 123. There is yet one further legal aspect to be taken into consideration 
and (hat is the princinle. I have discussed In the beginning of this judgment in 
para 33 sub para (ill), regarding the nature of trial of election petitions where 
corrupt practices are alleged and the standard of proof required to hold a candi- 
date guilty of such a charge. The decisions referred to and discussed by me In the 
said para of this Judgment clearly go to lay down the principles Tmt the charges of 
corrupt practice are quasi-criminal in charred 'r and f v, e standard of n~oof required, 
in order to establish a charge of corrupt pratiee in an election petition should be 
the same as in a criminal case and the charge mud, therefore, be established by 
the petitioner conclusively and beyond any reasonable doubt. In the light of these 
princlnles ol law, the further question that arises for consideration Is, can It be 
held that it is established beyond any reasonable doubt that the impugned portions 
relied unon by the petitioner and respondent No, 2, do deflnitelv amount to the 
apneal on the ground of religion, race, caste or community for the furtherance of Ihe 
prospects of the election of the respondent No. 1 and for prejudicially affecting 
the election oT respondent No. 2. While considering this aspect of the case, I 
assume that it Is also possible may probable to interpret the impugned portions as 
is urged on behalf of the nefltloner. All the some, the most question remains as 
to whether that can be held to be sufficient proof of the charge alleged beyond any 
reasonable doubt. Can it be said that the interpretation and construction placed 
by the respondent No. 1 on the said Annexure ‘A’ is not reasonably possible at 
all and the Impugned portions can have the, meaning, only, as alleged by the peti- 
tioner and respondent No. 2. I do not think so far the reasons I have already 
dtacussed. In Amjad Ali v. Nazumal Haque 21 E.L.R. 345 (Assam High Court), 



3980 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRA HAVANA 17, 188-1 [Fart II- 


Their Lordships have held that where it was not possible to And definitely whe- 
ther only the policy of the congress Government in the matter of passing or en- 
forcing legislation prejudicial to Muslims was criticised, or an appeal was made 

to vote or refrain from voting on the ground of religion or community under the 

garb of discussing such measures, the respondent cannot be held guilty of a 
corrupt practice under section 123(3). Evidence capable of doubtful interpreta- 
tion cannot establish the charge. On the same principles, in the instant case, to 
my mind, taking the respondent’s case at its worst, it is not possible to find 

definitely whether only an explanation of his severing the connection with Con- 

gress and an appeal was made to support the Swatantra party and its candidate 
by respondent No. 1 by the said Annexure ‘A’ or an appeal was made to vote or 
refrain from voting on the ground of his religion, caste or community to the 
Kshatriyas. under the garb of giving such an explanation and an appeal to support 
the new party, and therefore the respondent cannot be held guilty of the corrupt 
practice under section 123(3). In S. Kandaswami v. B. Adityan 21 E.L.R, 435 
(Madras High Court), it is laid down that in election proceedings there is no room 
for the theory of the balance of probabilities or shifting of the burden of proof. 
Therefore, even if it is assumed that the interpretation put by the petitioner is 
probable, that is not enough to hold the charge established. In Ahmedmiya 
Sherumiya v. Chijrpa Ibrahim Nurajl 17 E.L.R. 218 (Bombay High' Court), Chief 
J. Chagla has held that the onus of proving corrupt practice alleged lies on those 
who assert their commission and they have to be established beyond the possibility 
of a reasonable doubt. The evidence in their support need not necessarily be 
direct, but it is well-settled that circumstantial evidence and the inference 
deducible therefrom must be such as to lead to the only reasonable conclusion of 
the commission of the corrupt practices alleged, No conjecture or surmise, how- 
ever attractive or even plausible, can take the place of proof and if two equally 
reasonable inferences or conclusions are possible, one innocent and the other 
guilty, the former should normally prevail. In Lachhman Singh Gill v. Har- 
vrakash Kenr 22 E.L.R. 249 (Punjab High Court), it. is decided that if two equally 
reasonable inferences or conclusions are possible, one innocent and the other 
guilty, the former should normally prevail. 

88. True it is that ore of the essentials of the election law is to safeguard the 
purity of the election process and also to see that people do not get elected by 
corrupt practices or wanton disregard of that law but at the same time the election 
of a successful candidate is not to be lightly interfered with and it can be set aside 
only if the charges of corrupt practice arc proved beyond a reasonable doubt. It 
was urged that as decLln'l by ihe ruling of Sudh >r Hendra v. Shripat 
Dange A.I.R. 1960 Bombay 249, In order to ascertain the true nature of the 
statement made, the Tribunal has to take into consideration all the circumstances 
and in this case the circumstances of the statement having been published at 
election time, after the propaganda carried on by the Kshatrlya Sabha and the 
Annexure ‘A’ having been distributed in the meetings of the Kshatriyas should 
be given full weight and If so done the only conclusion is that it was an appeal 
to the Kshatriyas to vote for him on the ground of bis being a Kshatrlya. As 
discussed ahove, I have taken all these circumstances Into account and I cannot 
still persuade myself to accept the contention of the petitioner and the respondent 
No. 2 in the light of the other principles so well established and referred to above. 
It is, therefore, at the cost of some repetition that I have quoted those principles 
hereinabove to focus our attention on these extremely important aspect of 
election law, which the Tribunal has to keep in mind before an election of a 
candidate can be declared to be void. 

89. Under all the circumstances, facts and law discussed above, I hold that 
the contents of Annexure ‘A’ do not amount to any appeal on the ground of 
religion, caste or community and, therefore, does not fall within the mischief of 
caluse (3) of section 123. 

90. That brings me to the consideration of the second document Impugned as 
offending against section 123 (3), that is Annexure ‘C\ the statement of Natwar- 
slnha Solankl, witness Exh, 139. I have already held that this statement is not 
proved to have been published with the consent, express or implied, of the respon- 
dent No. 1 and, therefore, its contents cannot be fastened on the respondent No. 1 
if they fall within the mischief of clause (3) of section 123, Without prejudice to 
and apart from that finding, I will examine the contention whether on merits it 
Is proved that the contents of this Annexure ‘C falls within the purview of section 
123 (3), 



Sic. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 1902/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 3981 


91. Annexure ‘C’ it may be noticed at the outset, does not make any reference 
for giving vote to respondent No. 1. The perusal of this statement leave no doubt 
in the readers’ mind that this statement was published as a rejoinder given by 
this Kshatriya worker, as the heading shows, and which was evoked by some 
scathing criticism of the Kshatriyas and their leaders, and particularly to disparag- 
ing caricatures published by the other political party as mentioned in this very 
leaflet. The writer Solanki in his evidence Ex, 189 has also deposed to the same 
effect, There is no doubt that after referring to this criticism the writer tells hlg 
Kshatriya brotherns to give smashing reply to these obnoxious and disparaging 
caricatures and adverse criticisms by the Congress propaganda machinery, by 
supporting the Swatantra party and its candidates. So, there is only an appeal 
by Solanki Exh. 139 to support the Swatantra party and its candidates and not an 
appeal to the Kshatriyas to vote for any particular candidate of that party, on 
the ground that he was a Kshatrly,a. On the principles of law already discussed 
it cannot be said that the petitioner has established beyond any reasonable doubt 
that annexure ‘C’ amounts to an appeal to give votes to a particular candidate on 
the ground of his caste, community or religion, I, therefore, hold that Annexure ‘C’ 
is not hit by clause (3) of section 123. 

92. That brings me to the consideration of Ex. 83, the statement by Chhatra- 

sinh Atalia, under this issue, I am only examining the question whether this state- 
ment amounts to an appeal prohibited by section 123 (3) being an appeal to vote 
on the ground of religion, caste or community. On behalf of the petitioner, It Is 
urged that by this statement the writer has appealed to the Kshatriyas, he has 

used terms like, “Jivan Maran-no prasang”, a matter of life and death for the 

Kshatriyas and again "this may be the first and the last occasion for the Kshatri- 
yas,” thereby suggesting, extinction of the Kshatriyas, and by this he played 
upon the sentiments and feelings of the community or caste. The petitioner 
further relied upon the following portion for supporting his contention and stren- 
uously urged that this portion leaves no manner of doubt that an appeal to vote on 
the ground of caste or community has been made. 

"Many temptations will be given, attempts will be made to deter you by 
the use of money and power; but brethern’s life is short, every one 
has to die. If you are brave, then give an opposition with courage 
and when the vote (i.e. voting paper) is in your hand then while 

dropping it. (i.e. the bollot box) close your eyes and contemplate who 

am I, wliat is the decision taken by my community (Samaj) and who 
is the candidate for the Swatantra Party and then drop the vote.” 

Tlie learned Advocates for the petitioner and respondent No. 1 argued that 
by this the writer appealed to the Kshatriya voters to vote for the Kshatriya 
voters to vote for the Kshatriya candidates, and that amounts to an appeal to 
vote on the ground of caste and community. 

93. On behalf of the respondent No. 1, his learned Counsel urged that he 

T-onid thnf the'-c was an appeal to the Kshatriyas but it cannot be said 

LiM u, was ail appeal to them to vote on the ground of the caste or community 
of the candidates. Dealing with the last argument first, it was his contention 
that when the writer appealed to contemplate before dropping the voting paper 
‘who hf, ivas’, the writer wanted to suggest and wanted the voter to think of 
h is seii-re.'.peet. By the words "what is the decision laken by my community" 
the writer wanted the voters to keep in mind the decision taken by the Kshat- 
riyas to support the Swatantra party. And by the words "who is the candidate 
of the Swatantra party”, the writer wanted the Kshatrivas to vote for the candi- 
dates of the Swatantra party and not any other candidates. Even if the con- 
struction placed on behalf of the respondent No. 1 on the first of the phrases, 
i.e., who am I, be considered not to be a very probable construction and the 
interpretation thereof as made by the petitioner is preferred, this impugned 
portion, in my opinion, does not amount to an appeal to vote on the ground of 
caste or community of the candidate. I find it difficult to accept the interpre- 
tation put by the learned Advocates of the petitioner and the respondent No. 2 
on tile latter two impugned sentences. I find that when the statement Is read 
as a whole when the writer asks the voter to think “what decision the commu- 
nity has taken" has definitely a reference to the decision taken by the Kshat- 
riya Sabha and the community at large to support the Swatantra party. There 
Is no reason to believe or hold that the community had taken the decision to 
only vote for the Kshatriyas candidates. Again, when the writer asks the voter 
to pause and see who is the candidate of the Swatantra party, he certainly 
cannot be alleged to be urging the Kshatriyas lo vote for only the Kshatriyas 
candidate of the Swatantra party and not others, Such an interpretation is 



[Part II— 


3982 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 


neither warranted by any evidence, nor the tenor of 
only reasonable interpretation is, therefore, as urged 
that was an appeal to the Kshatriya voters to vote 
Swatantra party in accordance with the decision 
(Samaj). In view of this, I find that this impugned 
clause (3) of section 123. As already discussed and 
above show that an appeal to a caste or community 
of a particular party Is not prohibited by law, 


the document itself. The 
by the respondent No. I 
for the candidates of the 
taken by the community 
portion cannot be hit by 
the decisions referred to 
to vote for the candidates 


94. Regal-ding the phrases "it is a question of life and death" on.i r. + u:„ 
occasion will be the first and the last” and the words “that Congress ha^deHd 
ed to exterminate the Kshatriyas”, it is urged on behalf of the respondent No d f 
that these are phrases of exaggerations indulged by parties in an election cam- 
paign and they only mean that there was a crisis for the Kshatriyas and tCy 
had to stand together to preserve the prestige and either they prosper or they 
do not and if they do not stand together, they will suffer much. All this which 7 
ever way it 13 interpreted is definitely an appeal to the Kshatriyas to vote but 
the important question is can it amount to vote for the candidates on the ground 
of his religion, community or caste. I find it does not. 


95. On behalf of the petitioner and respondent No, 2, it is urged that the 
reference to the extermination of the community amounts to an appeal on the 
ground of community and religion and therefore the statement is hit by clause 
(3) of section 123 and relied upon Nazmul Haque V. Amjad Ali 18 ELR 253 
(Election Tribunal, Gauhati), wherein it was held that propaganda that Cong- 
ress Government was anti-Muslim and that the Islam would be in danger if the 
Congress was voted to power, amounted to appeal on the ground of religion and 
was hit by section 123(3). As already mentioned, this decision was reversed 
by the Assam High Court in Amjad Ali V. Nazmul Haque 21 E.L.R. 345. Whether 
in spite of it the dicta laid down by the Tribunal stands or not has not been 
pointed out. But apart from it even in that case the High Court decided that 
when the propaganda is a mixed one and the impugned phrases are used while 
criticising the policy of Government or the opposite political party, reference 
to community or religion would not be hit by the said section. Even in this state- 
ment Ex. 83, we find that these phrases have been used while criticising the policy 
of the Congress and its Government. Besides, taking the statement as a whole 
those words cannot be taken literally, in the context in which they are used, they 
only could mean, it was a question of the prestige of the caste or community. The 
writer himself gives an indication to this, when in the 2nd or 3rd line after the 
impugned phrase “Brothers we decide to live or die together because this occasion 
is of the prestige of the whole community (caste)”. I, therefore agree with the 
learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 when he urges that the phrases were only 
used metaphorically, I need not here repeat the principles of law and the deci- 
sions I have 1 eferred to while deciding the question about Annexure ‘A’. On 
the point of the standard of proof, proof required is that it must prove the charge 
beyond any reasonable doubt and if two interpretations are reasonably possible, 
one showing guilt and the other innocence, the latter should prevail. They all 
apply mutatla mutandis to this statement also. I therefore, find that the state- 
ment Ex, 83 read as a whole is an appeal to the Kshatriyas but not an appeal to 
them to vote on the ground of caste or community for the Kshatriya candidates 
and therefore is not hit by clause (3) of section 123. 


96. I, therefore, hold issue No, 3 in the negative in all its parts. 

97. I now go to consider issue No. 4 I will deal with the issue in two parts 

(i) regarding the allegation that the use of words “star of Dhruvu” with the 
symbol of the Swatantra party amounted to the use of a religious symbol, and 

(ii) secondly whether the emblem of Somnath or the words “JAI SOMNATH” 
are p 1 oved to be religious symbols, 

98. On the first part of the issue, the case of the petitioner is that the symbol 
of the Swatantra party was the star-simpliclter. The Gujarati word to indicate 
the star is ‘Taro’ but the respondent No. 1 and his agents with his consent refer- 
red to that symbol in leaflets statement etc. as ‘Dhruva-no Tara’ meaning the 
'star of Dhruva’ instead of using the word ‘Taro’. The petitioner in para 16 
of the petition alleges that ‘DHRUVA’ is a religious symbol and therefore by 
using this religious symbol he has committed the corrupt practice of the use as 
well as appeal to that religious symbol, under section 123(3). The provision of 
the said section so far as it relates to this point is as under:— 

“The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with th« 
consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote 



SBC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/AGRAIIAYANA 17, 1884 3983 


or the use of, or appeal to religious symbols 

for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that 

candidate or far prejudicially affecting the election, if any candidate.” 

The section, therefore, makes illegal either the use of the religious symbol for 
the furtherance of the prospect of the election of the candidate or for prejudicially 
affecting the election of any candidate or the appeal to such religious symbol for 
the said purpose. 


99. The first question that arises for consideration is whether the use of the 
words ‘Dhruve-no-Taro’ amounts to a religious symbol. If wc look to the petition 
the allegation of this corrupt practice is made in paras 11 and 10. On reading 
these paras, it is not very clear whether it is the word 'Dhruva’ by itself the symbol 
alleged to be used or whether it is the combination of the word ‘Dhruva’ used 
with the emblem of the star, that is alleged to be the religious symbol. The 
respondent No, 1 in his written statement Ex. 6 in para 16 deals with this con- 
tention and states that the word ‘Dhruva’ has no religious significance and the 
said word does not carry any appeal to the Kshatriyas as such or to Hindus 
as such. He further states that the star of Dhruva is well known for its 
stationary character and that the word Tthruva’ has been used to signify the 
qualities of resoluteness — and steadfastness and by the use thereof the Swatantra 
party claimed that it was a resolute and steadfast party. When we go to the 
oral evidence we find that the petitioner himself has stated in his evidence 
Ex. 128 in examination-in-chief that he has read ‘Dhruvakhian’, Amongst 
Hindus ‘Dhruva’ has an important religious significance. Bhakta Dhruva, after 
he left his home, had undergone extreme penance, whereupon God Vishnu hav- 
ing been moved by it blessed him whereby he attained immorality and found 
a place in the solar system. Bhakta Dhruva has a place of importance in our 
religion. Then as instances when this religious entity is remembered, he says 
that at the time of foundation ceremony of the house his name is used and after 
the marriage when the couple arrives at the husband's house, the couple is ask- 
ed to look at the Dhruva star. In cross-examination, he has deposed that there 
is a star known by the name of Dhruva, he knows that star as Bhakta Dhruva, 
and it is in the north. When further asked about the significance or special 
traits of the star, he said he did not know. He also stated that he did not know 
whether it was stationary or not. The only other witness of the petitioner who 
aays anything about this is Ex. 132, In examination-in-chief, he has said that 
Natwarlal Dave in a meeting at Mogar bad said “the emblem is of ‘Dhruva-na- 
tara' and ail you Kshatriyas vote for respondent No. 1”. In cross-examination, 
he said that the star of Dhruva is in the north, the special significance of this 
is that at the time of the marriage it is shown to a couple. He knew that it 
was stationary in the sky. 


100 The respondent No. 1 Ex. 137 on this point has said that Gujarat 
Swatantra party had referred to the emblem of that party, which was a star 
as ‘Dhruva-no-Taro’, There is a star named ‘Dhruva’ m the sky in the north. 
Then referring to Annexure ‘B/2’ on the last cover page on the outside, he has 
stated that the following words printed in Gujarati as adjectives have the 
following meanings: — 


‘Sanatan’ means permanent. 

‘Adag’ means steadfast. 

‘Marga Darshak’ means ‘guide’, for example to navigation. 
‘Kruta Nishchayee’ means resolute. 

‘Dharma Priya’ means dutiful. 


Those adjectives used with the word ‘Dhruva’ are used for the purposes of 
indicating the star ‘Dhruva’. That even in their speeches when thev referred 
to it it was used to signify the attributes of that star. In cross-examination, 
he has admitted that the" official emblem of the Swatantra party was star simple 
clter The voter would understand that the Swatantra party emblem is Taro 
or star. He further stated that in Hindu Mythology ‘Dhruva is considered as 
a devotee (Bhakta). Amongst Hindus Dhruva and Prahlad ^re not give 
the same importance as Ram & Krishna they are considered minor devotees 
He knew that there was a star named Dhruva-no-Taro in the sky but he di 
not know why it was called ‘Dhruva-no-Taro’. Witness Ex. If Ctomanbhai 
Dadubhai has deposed that the word ‘Dhruva’ was used as an adjective, l here 
is a star bv the name ‘Dhruva’. He knew that amongst Hindus after marriage 
the couple was asked to have a look at the said star. The said star indrccates 
resoluteness and fixity. In cross-examination, he has said that he had neve 



3984 THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Pakt II- 


heard of ‘Dhruvakhian’ being read in the village. Regarding the wo d ‘Krutni- 
shchayee’ he says it is not true that the said word can be used only for human 
beings, it can be used for inanimate objects also like the ‘Dhruva star’. He had 
never heard that in villages there was a belief that Bhakta Dhruva had received 
blessings from God Vishnu. Natwarsinha Solankl Ex. 139, who as stated above 
was the Secretary of the Swatant a tarty, says thjt me symbol ot the partv 
was star, but he used the word ‘Dhruva’ in some leaflets and statements with 
the intention of specifying the star and thereby to show that the Swatantra 
Paksh had the qualities of the star of Dhruva, those qualities are those which 
are given at the back of Annexure B-2. he also gives the English translation of 
the words as given by the petitioner. He then says he does not believe that the 
star of Dhruva is a religious symbol. He admits that Dhruva Bhakta is referred 
to in the religious scriptures of the Hindus. He says he used the word ‘Dhruva’ 
to only indicate the star. In cross, he has said that he did not know that some 
persons did believe Dhruva to be a devotee. Ex. 152 Natubhai Merubha, witness 
■of respondent No. 1, has stated in cross-examination that he has read about Bhakta 
Dhruva and knew that he was a devotee. He did not believe that Bhakta Dhruva 
was a Kshatrlya. He knew that Bhaka Dhruva had secured for himself a high 
place as a religious entity. He knew that there was a star named ‘Dhruva’ in the 
north which is stationary and wherein Bhakta Dhruva got his place. 

101. So, the oral evidence does establish that in Hindu mythology, there was 
religious entity named ‘Dhruva’ who was a devotee. Over and above this, I 
was referred to the following well known works on the subject they deal with, on 
this point about there being a religious figure in Hindu mythology by that name. 

(a) The Sanskrit English Dictionary by Gode and Karve. Therein the meanings 
of the word ‘Dhruva’ have been given and the petitioner relied upon the meanings 
at Nos. 9, 10, 11 & 15, where at Nos. 9, 10, 11 the meanings given are respectively 
an epithet of Brahama, of Vishnu, of Siva, At No. 15, the meaning is given of the 
word when used as a noun and the meaning is, name of the son of Uttanpada and 
grand-son of Manu. The authors have then given a story of this mythological 
figure which, in short, is that Uttanapada had two wives, one was the mother of 
Dhruva. By the other wife, he had an elder son. Dhruva’s mother was disliked 
by his father. When Dhruva was very young when he tried to sit in the lap of 
Us father just as Us elder brother had done, he was contemptuously treated both 
by the king and his favourite wife. The child went sobbing to his mother, she 
tried to console by saying that fortune and favour were not attainable without 
hard exertions. The youth thereupon left the paternal roof retired to the woods 
and though quite a young lad performed such rigorous asterities that the child was 
at last raised to the position of polar star. 

(b) The next authority pointed out was “Shrimad Bhagawti Bhagawt" translated 

Into Gujarati and my attention was drawn at page 589, wherein the healing is 
‘Dhruva Mandal-nu-Vaman’ (* ) and there is a reference as under; — 

‘‘In that, the great devotee of Bhagwan and son of Uttanapada Shri Dhruva 
is identified with possibly the star of Dhruva”, 

(c) The next book referred to was ‘Mahabharat’ translated into Gujarati, where- 
in at page 443, there Is a passage to the effect that by constantly remembering 
the names of the Gods, the seven sages and of Dhruva one can get free from all 
difficulties and also from all sins. 

(d) The other book referred to was Ustory of ‘Dharamasatra’ by Kane at page 
530. This book Is in English. At page 530, there are following lines:— 

“When she (the bride) has seen the pole star, the star Arundhati and the 
seven sages (the constellation of Ursa Maja), let her break her silence 
and say ‘may my husband live and may I secure offspring". 

This is under the chapter “The Ceremonies of Marriage”. But it may also be 
noted that on page 531, the author states:— 

“In this description of the Samskara of marriage, there are three parts. 
There are certain rites that are preliminary., there are then a few 
rites that are of the essence of the Samskara, viz, Panigrahana, Hnma, 
going round the fire and Saptapadi and there are certain rites like the 
seeing of the pole star etc. that are subsequent to the central rites. The 
essential rites are mentioned by all Sutrakaras, but as to the preceding 
and subsequent rites, there Is a great divergence In the details." 


(*... 


) Matter in regional language. 



Aec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER b, 1962/ ACRAHA YANA 17, 1884 3985 


At page 535, the author refers to the said difference so tar as the pointing out the 
pole star Is concerned. We are not concerned with the details. Suffice it to say 
that there is a difference of opinion about this ceremony also. 

(e) The other book cited was ‘Shrimad Bhagwat’ translated into Gujarati by 
one Shastri Girjashankar Mayashanker. At page 412, there is a passage under the 
Chapter headed by the words ‘Dhruva-sthana-nu Varanan’ and there again the 
same suggestion comes that ‘Dhruva’ or pole star is the residence of 'Bhakta 
Dhruva'. 

102. These authorities coupled with the evidence prove the fact that ‘Bhakta 
‘Dhruva' or Thruva' as a proper noun has a religious significance in Hindu 
mythology. It also shows that some of the religious book suggest, that ‘Dhruva 
has his abode in the pole star or ‘Dhruva Tara.’ 

103. But under this issue the question for consideration is whether uny religious 

symbol is used. If at all anything could be said to be ‘use’ of a symbol, it would 
be the use of the picture of the star read with the word ‘Dhruva’ the word ‘symbol’ 
has not been defined anywhere In law and for its meaning we have to depend on 
the appropriate meaning given in the dictionaries, that can fit in the context, in 
which the word has been used in section 123 (3), Chamber’s Dictionary gives the 
meaning ‘‘that which by custom or convention represents something else; a type; 
a creed, compendium of doctrine, or a typical religious rite” : On this question 
what can be called a symbol for the purpose of section 123 (3) of the Representa- 
tion of the people act 1951, there is a useful discussion In Karan Singh V. Jamuna 
.Singh 15 E.L.R. 370 (Allahabad High Court) at page 374 at seq. where after refer- 
ring to various dictionaries, it was found that the most appropriate meaning to 
be applied would be “something that stands for, represents, or denotes something 
else (not by exact resemblance, but by vague suggestion, or by some accidental 
or conventional relation, especially a material object representing or taken to re- 
present something immaterial or abstract, as a being, idea, quality or condition, a 
representative or typical “figure, sign or taken.)” The question, therefore, that arises 
is whether the words ‘Dhruva star” or the word ‘Dhruva’ used with the emblem of 
a star can necessarily be held to be a religious symbol. The dictionary on which 
relience Is placed “The Sanskrit English Dictionary” above referred to shows that 
the word ‘Dhruva’ is used not only as a proper noun is but is also used as an 
adjective. The meanings of the word ‘Dhruva’ when used as an adjective are 
given as “fixed, firm, Immoveable stable, permanent, constant, unchangeable. He 
“has also given several Sanskrit sentences wherein the word ‘Dhruva’ has been 
used as an adjective, such as (* ) where it means 

certain, sure, inevitable. Then the words "Dhruva-smrutl’ is given where it means 
retentive or tenacious. The same dictionary gives the meaning also when the 
word ‘Dhruva’ Is used with the word ‘Tara’. On page 870, the meaning is given 
as the polar star. Therefore, ‘Dhruva Tara’ or the ‘star of Dhruva’ does not 
necessarily mean or Indicate the connection of the star with the mythelogical 
J Dhruva’ or the ‘Dhruva Star’, as is understood in mythology and the word 
‘Dhruva’ is used even in Sanskrit as an adjective with the meanings referred to 
above. It Is a well known fact that in Geography and in Astronomy one learns 
and comes to know about ‘Dhruva’ star that is the polar star. So, the use of the 
word ‘Dhruva Tara’ or ‘Dhruvano Taro’ or using the word Dhruva with the 
emblem of a star, can also Indicate the pole star known to geography and Astro- 
nomy; it cannot be said that to the public the Dhruva star or the north pole star 
can only mean the star known to mythology and not to Astronomy or to Geo- 
graphy or simply a star which is stationary in the northern sky, without having 
any religious significance. There Is even no reliable evidence led by the petitioner 
“to prove that the use of the words ‘Dhruva no Taro’ or the word ‘Dhruva’ with the 
picture of star meant onlv the ‘Dhruva’ star or ‘Bhakta Dhruva’ known to mytho- 
logy to the electorate of that locality. According to the evidence on behalf of 
respondent no. 1, this word ‘Dhruva’ was used only as an adjective to Indicate the 
star: and in order to brinp out the attributes of the pole star, the five words were 
used to emphasise the points that these were also the attributes of the Swatantra 
Party. It was argued on behalf of the petitioner that the meaning of the last two 
attributes utilised by the Swatantra Paksh, particularly on Annexure B-2 at the 
back thereof, which is the manifesto of the Swatantra Party, could not apply 
to inanimate objects, and therefore it indicated the mythological figure and not 
f.he polar star. It Is urged that the word ‘Kruta-nlshchavee’ meaninc resolute can 
only apply to an animate object and not to an inanimate object. Regarding the 


(* ) Matter in Regional Language. 



3986 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1 9G2/AGRAHA YA XA 17, 1884 [P\rt II— 


last word, It is urged that its meaning should be ‘devoted to religion’. On behalf 
of the respondent No. 1, it is argued that its meaning is not ‘devoted to religion’ but 
It is ‘devoted to duty’ or its meaning is ‘dutiful’ ‘Dharma’ does not necessarily 
mean religion, ‘Dharma’ is also widely used to indicate ‘duty’ and, under those 
circumstances, it is argued that these two words can apply even to an Inanimate 
object like a star. On behalf of the respondent No. 1, witness Exh. 139 Natvarsinh 
Solanki, who was the introducer of the use of the word ‘Dhruva in Gujarat being 
the secretary of the Swatantra Paksh, has deposed that he had introduced it only 
as an adjective of the ‘star’ and It was used to indicate the star of ‘Dhruva’ and 
nothing more. He has also given the meanings of the five attributes mentioned in 
Annexure B-2 and has stated that the last two words can be used lor an inanimate 
object. Even if it is assumed that strictly and grammatically the last two words 
may not apply to an inanimate 1 object, many a times in common parlance many words 
are used metaphorically or loosely to apply to inanimate objects also. Merely 
from the use of these two last words, it cannot definitely be said that the reference 
was to ‘Bhakta Dhruva’ and not to the star. As observed above, there is no evi- 
dence on the part of the petitioner to the effect that this was understood to be so 
by the electorate, 

104. The prohibition of the use or appeal to religious symbol is apparently 
based on the principle that the elections shall not be fought on religious or com- 
munal grounds. Though the constitution has given the privilege to every one to 
follow his religion and it guarantees that right yet as the Constitution has declared 
the country to be a secular state, it has been laid down by the Representation of 
the people Act that no candidate can canvass for himself by playing upon the 
religious or communal sentiments of the people and that is provided for by section 
123 (3j of the said Act. Therefore, the fundamental basis of the prohibition 
against appeal to religion and the use of or appeal to a religious symbol is the 
same, that is to say, the use or appeal must be such as would excite the religious 
fervour or passion amongst the voters to closed their free will and vote on the 
basis of such religious fervour. I am of the opinion, therefore, that any sign or 
symbol that may have some reference to religion or mythology will not make It 
a religious symbol so as to fall within the ambit of the prohibition of section 12® 
(3). This constitute a religious symbol for the purposes of section 123(3), it must 
be proved that it is both religious and it is some thing which can be held to be 
known or acknowledged as symbol so as to arose religious fervour or appeal in 
the mind of the voters concerned, because it Is to be proved that the said religious- 
symbol was used for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of the 
candidate In question. In our case, the burden of the attack has been that all’ 
impugned actions were directed to capture the voters of th? Kshatriyas, for the 
purposes of furthering the election prospects of the respondent No. 1. So, the 
Ttse’ qr ‘appeal to’ has to be correlated to that aspect of the matter also and, as 
observed above, there Is no convincing evidence which can be said to have proved 
this fact, Hindu mythology is respledent with such belief and thousands of 
objects, animate and inanimate, are referred to as having a religious or mytho- 
logical significance, which may, therefore, be generally called a religious symbol. 
But certainly Legislature could not have intended to prohibit the ‘use’ or ‘appeal” 
to all such references. To constitute anv such ‘use* or ‘appeal’ to a religious 
symbol, ’.. facts, as discussed above, should be established to declare an election 
of a successful candidate void. Here, a reference to the ruling of Ram Narain 
Prasad Yadav v. Subnath Deogam 21 E.L.R, 108 (Patna High Court) may be made- 
with advantage. In the said ruling, a ‘cock’ was the ‘symbol’ of the party con- 
cerned and there pamphlets were published and held to have been circulated by 
the party organisation to which the candidate whose election was challenged be- 
longed. One of the leaflets was as under: 

"In the box of the Jharkhand party Is printed the symbol of cock. Put 
your votes in the box with cock symbol. O: rise ye children of men. 

Respected sons of men open your eyes, lend your ears, recognise me and my 
crow, in your services and worship. In the worship of your forest 
God (Buru); In stomach pain and headache. 

At the time of vour distress and miseries. I am with you even after giving 
my life. Your recover (from illness) even by applying knife at my 
neck. This thought giv"s me pleasure. In exchange of this give me 
char a in the shape of vote. I am victorious, Do not forget me, other- 
wise I tell, ye sons of men will suffer entemal miseries, crow of cock: 
cock crowed, rise now, open your eyes, be prepared for duty. Yours 
only cock.” 



Sec, 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 8 , 1562/AGRAHAYAN’A 17, 1884 3987 


In spite of this, in that ruling it was decided that the ‘cock’ cannot be held to be a 
“religious symbol’ even when it was used with other words that might indicate that 
it had religious or mythological significance, Their Lordships have observed; 

“After careful consideration of the evidence in this case, I am of the view 
that, the Tribunal has correctly held that the ‘Cock’ is not the religious 
symbol of the Adibasis. No doubt some witnesses (Adibasis) on behalf 
of the appellant stated that they considered ‘Cock’ to be their religious 
symbol, but the facts which they have proved in respect of the part 
which the cock plays in the ritual of the Hos, Mundas and Oraons of 
the constituency in question does not justify the conclusion that the 
‘Cock’ is a symbol of the religion which they profess. Cock by itself 
does not signify any particular faith of these Adibasis, although the 
cock forms an integral part of the religious ceremonies which they 
perform while worshipping some of their important deities. On be- 
half of the respondent some witnesses (Adibasis, were examined who 
stated that the cock was not their religious symbol.” 

In the instant case also, there is nothing proved that the ‘Dhruva’ star signifies 
any particular faith of the Kshatrlyas, although at best the ‘Dhruva star’ may be 
said ro form a part of the marriage ritual, inasmuch as the couple is asked to 
have a look at the star after marriage. Even that be so, it would not convert the 
“Dhruva star’ into a religious symbol within the meaning of the words as used in 
the context where they are in section 123(3). This decision was challenged before 
the Supreme court, but the Supreme Court has confirmed this finding of the Tribu- 
nal and the High court. 1 will have occasion to refer to these rulings again when 
I consider the next issue. But for the purposes of this issue, I have referred to them 
to show that they support the view I have taken as discussed above. I, therefore, 
find it difficult to accept the argument of the petitioner that the words 'Dhruva 
star 1 or the picture of the star used with the words ‘Dhruva’ should be held to be a 
‘religious symbol’. 

105, But even if it is assumed for argument’s sake that in ope view of the 
matter, it can be held to be a religious symbol, the important Question is “would 
the Tribunal be entitled or justified in declaring the election of respondent No. 1 
void in this case?" As I have already discussed, these words or the ‘symbol’ 
impunged also indicate or have a reference to something other than religion or 
religious belief; that is to say, they also indicate the pole star known to Astro- 
nomy, Geography and to the common people. So, at worst these words or symbol 
are capable of two interpretations. As I have already discussed above fully, 
the nature of the trial in an election petition requires proof of a charge of cor- 
rupt practice beyond any reasonable doubt. Whether the words used or the 
word ‘Dhruva’ used with the emblem of star is any symbol or not if at all it 
is a symbol, whether it amounts to a religious symbol or not, are very important 
ingredients under the charge of the corrupt practice of the ‘use’ of or ‘appeal’ to a 
religious symbol. If the evidence or circumstances relating to this con- 
troversial point is such as would leave the Tribunal with two possi- 
bilities or inferences as to the fact whether it amounts to a reli- 
gious symbol o " not, then it cannot be said that the fact is proved beyond reason- 
able doubt. In this case, it cannot be said to have been established that the 
use of these words can mean only the mythological ‘Dhruva’ or the mythological 
abode of ‘Bhakta Dhruva’. It cannot be concluded, therefore, that these words 
amount to a religious symbol only. There is an equally reasonable interpretation 
and possibility of the fact established that the use of these words only indicates 
well known pole star, which is stationary in the northern sky and which is also 
used as guide by seamen for navigation and as such known to astronomy, science, 
geography and also the common people, Under the principles decided by a long 
array of decisions of various courts, if there remains a reasonable doubt, as in 
the case of a criminal trial, the benefit should go to the person charged with the 
corrupt practice alleged and I think, under the facts and circumstances discussed 
above, this is a fit case where in any case this benefit should go to respondent 
No. 1. This much on the question as to whether these wo-ds at all amount to 
a religious symbol, but regarding the other ingredient of the charge, that is t e 
‘use’ or ‘appeal’ to religious symbol or to religion, I shall examine under the next 
issue. 

106 I will now consider the question as to whether Ihe ‘use’ of or ‘appeal' 
to the words ‘JAI SOMNATET or the emblem of Somnalh would amount to the 
‘use’ of or ‘appeal’ to a religious symbol. 



3988 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRA HA YANA 17, 1884 [Part II— 


107. The case of the petitioner on the point is that the respondent No, 1 has 
used the words 'Jai SOMNATH’ at the end of his statement Annexure 'A’ to 
appeal to Kshatriyas on the ground of religion, as Somnath is the titular God 
of the Kshatriyas who hold him in great reverence. It is alleged fuither that 
this slogan 'Jai SOMNATH’ has a great significance to the Kshatriyas as the 
old Kshatriya Kings used it as a war cry. It is further urged that in leaflets 
calling the meetings or conventions of the Kshatriya. Sabha the leaflets bear 
the emblem of Somnath and also the slogan ‘Jai Somnath’ with the emblem 
part I shall deal with hereafter. To substantiate this point, the petitioner has 
produced Annexure ‘F’ with the petition a leaflet giving information about the 
meetings at several places named therein. It is 1 alleged that therefore there was 
the use of and appeal to the religious symbol. Over and above Annexures ‘A’ 
and 'F* the petitioner has relied upon Exs, 26 to 29 for this point. 

108. As against that, the case of the respondent No. 1 is that the slogan ‘Jai 
Somnath’ was introduced by him as a phrase of greeting just as the phrases 
‘Jai SHRI Krishna’, ‘Ram Ram', ‘JAI SITARAM’, ‘JAI SWAMINARAYAN’, 'Jai 
Hind’ are used as such. It is denied that it lias any religious significance. Regard- 
ing the emblem of Somnath, he denies any having been used by him or with 
his consent. The emblem part I shall deal later. 

109. As regards the words ‘Jai Somnath’ the respondent No. I has deposed 

that he and others have been using this as a term of greeting for the last 17 or 
18 years. He further says that within the words ‘Jai Somnath’, they also used 

the words ‘Jai Hind’. He has further said that Somnath Mahadev is not con- 

sidered as the Chief God by all the Kshatriyas, some do consider so. This term 
wa» used by Dr. Raiendraprasad, Sardar Patel, Shri K. M. Munshi and others. 
He does not admit that the words were used as a war cry by the Kshatriyas. 
His witness Natversinh Solan ki Ex. 139 has said that, since, the inception of 
-the Kshatriya Sabha they have been using this phrase, as a greeting, as ‘Jai 

Krishna’, ‘Jai Hind’, etc., are used. He admits that before this word was 

adopted as a phrase of greeting, ‘Jai Krishna’, etc were used as phrases of greet- 
ing. He admitted some Kshatriyas believed in Somnath as the chief God. 

110. The petitioner Ex. 128 has deposed on this point to the effect that Kshat- 
riyas believe in Somnath as chief God. They used ‘Jai Somnath’ as war cry. 
In some leaflets the picture of God Somnath is printed. In cross, he says he has 
never heard the words like ‘Jai Swaminarayan’ or ‘Jai Krishna’ or ‘Jai Shri 
Krishna’, He however, said that he had heard the word ‘Jai Hind’ being used 
in common parlance and also in correspondence. Exh. 130 witness for peti- 
tioner has said that there is a temple in Saurashtra by the name of Somnath 
temple. The Kshatriyas believe ‘Somnath’ to be their family deity. They used 
these words as a war cry in old dayB, he said so from some books on history 
but did not remember which. 


111. Exs. 45 and 40 are post cards produced by the respondent No. 1 written 
to him by other persons in March 1962 wherein after signing they have used 
the words “(*.... V’ (Na Jai Somnath). Ex. 48 is a post card written by some 
one to respondent No. 1 and which has got nothing to do with election and 
written on 12th September 1950. The signature “(*....)” (Nathusinh-na Jai 
Somnath). Ex. 47 is a printed post card in March 1959 calling a meeting. There, 
the same words are used after the signature. Exh. 53 is a printed leaflet in 
January 1952, which is an appeal by several Kshatriyas to vote for Congress 
and which refers to a resolution passed by the Kshatriyas Sabha on 19th August 
1951 to support Congress. This leaflet bears the words ‘Jai Somnath’ at the 
head of it. The words ‘Jai Hind’ are also used. Where the appeal ends, there 
too they are used. Exs. 54 and 55 are leaflets calling meetings of the Kshatriyas 
Sabha in 1959 and 1958 respectively. These impugned words arc used. Ex. 58 
is a printed invitation to attend a meeting of the Kshatriyas Sabha, in January 
1951, these words have been used at the head of it. All these documents clearly 
show on the face of them that the Kshatriyas and the Kshatriya Sabha have 
been using these words as a term of ‘greeting’ just as any other phrase or term 
lik e ‘Jai Hind’ for years past. There is no evidence to prove to lead to the 
conclusion that this term has been used as a religious symbol and much less 
•that it is only a religious symbol and not a mere term of greeting. I, therefore, 
hold that it is not a ‘religious symbol' within the meaning of section 123(3). 

112. Then I go to the allegation of the emblem of God Somnath having been 
used on the leaflets. One of the leaflets relied upon is Annexure ‘F\ No one has 


(• ) Matter in regional language. 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: DECEMBER 3, 19(12/ AGR AHA YANA ,7, 1884 3989 


said that the symbol or emblem used depicts God Somnath. On the contrary, 
if we look, at some of the old leaflets used even prior to the election, Exs. 54 
and 55, wnich are of the years 1950 and 1958 respectively, the same emblem 
is used. The words written in the emblem are ‘Jai Hind'. So, this seems to 
be an emblem used by the Kshtriyas Sabha long prior to the election time and 
there is nothing to show that it is any religious emblem. 

113. The other two leaflets relied upon for the purpose of this attack are Exs. 
28 and 29. These are leaflets and are invitations to the meetings at Cambay 
and Thasra by the Secretaries of Nadiad Kshatriya Sabha and the Thasra Taluka 
Kshatriya Sabha respectively. The emblem used thereon is different from the 
one used on Annexure 'F\ there is also evidence to show that these emblems 
depict God Shiva. However, there is no clear evidence that God Shiva is the same 
as God Somnath. But apart from that, it has to be held that it is established that 
these are religious symbols ‘used’, I, therefore, hold that the word ‘Dhruva’ 
used with the symbol of the star does not amount to use of a religious symbol, 
but the use of the emblem of Somnath on Exs. 28 and 29 would amount to use 
of a religious symbol. But it cannot affect the election result as I find that the 
use was not with the consent of the respondent No. 1 or for furtherance of 
his election prospects. 

114. Issue No. 5. — This brings me to the consideration of issue No, 5. The 
issue consists of two parts — first whether it is proved that the respondent No. 1 
or his agent with his consent or knowledge used or appealed to any of the said 
religious symbols and secondly whether it was so used or appealed to for the 
furtherance of the candidate’s prospects of the election or for prejudicially affect- 
ing the election of respondent No. 2. 

115. As regards this, I will have to divide the discussion into two portions — 
first as regards, the use or appeal to the words ‘Dhruva-no Taro’ and secondly 
as regard the use of appeal to the words ‘Jai Somnath’ or the emblem of 
‘Somnath’, 

116. So far the question of the use of the words ‘Dhruva-no Taro’ is concerned, 
they are used on Annexure B-2, the manifesto of the Swatantra party, and which 
is accepted by respondent No. 1 also to be his own manifesto. I have already 
held under issue No. 1 that Annexures B-2, B-3, B-5, B-6 should be taken to 
have been put into circulation with the consent or knowledge of respondent 
No. 1. Therefore, the fact of the use of these words by the respondent No. 1 by 
his agent with his consent is amply proved. So far as these leaflets are con- 
cerned, under issue No. 4, I have, however, held that these words are not proved 
beyond reasonable doubt to be a religious symbol and as such no coirupt prac- 
tice could be held to have been proved on that finding alone. But here I shall 
try to assume for argument’s sake that those words may be held to amount to 
a religious symbol. Then one further fact remains to be proved before the 
charge of corrupt practice could be brought home to respondent No. 1 and that 
fact is that such a use or appeal was for the furtherance of the prospects of 
election of respondent No. 1. It is very Important to note that apart from the 
use of the impugned words, there Is nothing in the manner or extent of the 
use by the respondent No. 1, which can justify a conclusion that the alleged 
corrupt practice was committed by or on behalf of the respondent No. 1. Except 
for one witness Exh. 132 Mahadevsing Raising, who has stated that one of the 
speakers at a meeting at Mogas had said "The emblem of the Swatantra party 
is ‘Dhruvana Tara’ and we all Kshatriyas should vote for respondent No. 1. 
There is no evidence at all as to the manner or the emphasis put on the use of 
those words by the respondent No. 1. This witness cannot be said to be an inde- 
pendent witness, he is admittedly a Congress worker and is interested m the 
success of the other candidate for her success. In cross examination, when ask- 
ed about the star of ‘Dhruva’, he says that the star of ‘Dhruva’ is in the north 
and that it is a stationary star and the only significance he knows about the star 
is that at the time of the marriage, it is shown to the couple. It is also signi- 
ficant to note that this witness says that only three leaflets were distributed, 
in his village and they were the statements of respondent. No. 1 that is Annexure 
‘A’, the statement of Chhatrasinh Atalia that is Ex. 83 and the statement of 
Natversinh Solanki that Annexure *C\ and it is important to note that none of 
these three bears the word ‘Dhruva’ or ‘Dhruvano Taro’. I, therefore, find that 
practically there is no evidence at all or circumstances shown to show that this 
religious symbol was used or appealed t > for the furtherance of the prospects 
of respondent No. 1 at the election and, therefore, this important ingredient of 
the charge is also not proved. I need not repeat here that this ingTedient of 



3990 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 19G2/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part li- 


the charge has also to be proved beyond any reasonable doubt, I am support- 
ed In this view by the ruling of Shlvram Sawant Bhonsale v. Pratap Rao Deorao. 

17 E.L.R. 37 (Bombay High Court). The facts of this case are similar to the 
case under consideration, In that case, the respondent was alleged to have used 
the symbol of ‘Jai Shambho’ on badges Issued to the candidate’s volunteers and 
also in some printed matter in the election campaign. There also the use of this 
symbol was proved, but Their Lordships came to the conclusion that apart from 
the mere use of these words, there was nothing in the manner or extent of the 
use of these words, to show that the use was made in furtherance of the pros- 
pects of the candidate’s election, And in the absence of such proof a candi- 
date could not be held guilty of corrupt practice under section 123(3). It may 
be noticed that, in that case, the respondent in cross examination had actually 
stated that technically speaking the words were a religious motto and, in spite 
of that admission, Their Lordships held that that was a slander thread for hold- 
ing that a religious symbol was used in furtherance of the respondent’s pros- 
pects at the election, ' It was also proved there that the impugned words were 
used on badges issued to the respondent’s volunteers and workers; that they 
were used on printed matter which was proved to have been circulated. ^ It 
was also alleged there that the use of, and appeal to, the state motto of ‘Jai 
Shambho’ was made by the respondent and his workers to solicit votes for the 
respondent and for the furtherance of his election prospects on various occasions 
and in particular on the polling day at all the polling stations. The finding 
of the Tribunal was that those uses amounted to the use of a religious symbol 
and they were used for furtherance of the prospects of the election candidate. 
But, as stated above, Then’ - Lordships of the Bombay High Court reversed that 
decision on that point for tho reasons as stated. Under the circumstances, I 
hold that the petitioner has not proved beyond any reasonable doubt that the 
words Dhruvano Taro, even if assumed to be a religious symbol, were used or 
appealed to, for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of respondent 
No. 1 or for prejudicially affecting the election of respondent No. 2. 

The ruling of Madan Mohan v. Hari Datt 15 E.L.R. 331, further supports the 
above conclusion, 

117. Here, in passing I may also examine the question as to whether it is 
established that by making use of these words, there was an appeal to the 
voters to vote for respondent No, 1 on the ground of his religion. From the 
facts discussed above and the conclusions reached to the effect that it cannot 
be held proved that there was any use of or appeal to any religious symbol, 
because those words do not necessarily mean the mythological figure of ‘Dhruva’ 
it cannot be held that there is proof beyond any reasonable doubt that there 
was any appeal to vote for respondent No. 1 on the ground of religion. The 
petitioner however relies upon the following decisions to u.ge upon me that 
the use of these words should be held to amount to an appeal on the ground 
of religion. I, therefore, deal with these rulings. 

(1) Desai Basawaraj v. Demnkol Hasan sob 4 E.L.R. 380 (Tribunal Dharwar). 
This ruling is relied upon on the ground that in that case the reference to the 
symbol of Congress which was a yoked pair of bullocks its reference in the 
following terms was held to be an appeal to religion and religious symbol: — ■ 

"Speeches that are made by the leaders of our nation, that ‘India lives in 
the villages' are proper. More than 75 per cent, of the Indian popu- 
lation lives m villages. Agriculture is the main occupation of the 
Indians. Tire animal which is seen and loved by every body ir the 
villages, is a bullock. It is looked upon dearly by our people as ‘Nandi’ 
of God Isware, Basavanna. Bullocks are the strong treasu: ies of our 
agriculturists and soul of agriculture,” 

I do not think this ruling can have any application to the facts of the instant 
case. In the said case, in the article published, there was a direct reference to 
the bullocks as the object looked upon dearly by the people as ‘Nandi’ of God 
Iswurc, Basavanna. Again, the Tribunal took it as established by evidence that 
the electorate voted for the symbol of the Congress because their family deity was 
Basavanna and they voted for the symbol of Congress believing they were 
voting for Basavanna their God. In the present case, there is nothing to show 
that in any appeal in any of the leaflets or even the manifesto Ex. B-2, there 
was any attempt to appeal to the symbol of ’Dhruva’. There were no words 
used therein to the effect as were in the said case asking the voters to vote 
for or in the name of the devotees ‘Dhruva’, nor is any evidence led to show 
that the voters voted for the symbol of the Swatantra Party believing or tak- 
ing it to be voting for that religious entity. In the above quoted ruling, it waa 



See. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 1 963/ AGRAHA YANA 17, 1884 3991 


held that the photograph of Mahatma Gandhi is a national symbol. This conclu- 
sion in later rulings of the High Courts has not been accepted. 

(2) The next ruling relied upon by the petitioner is Sangappa v. Shivamur- 
thiswamy A.I.R. 19-61 Mysore page lwl at pages 113-114, para 48. In the said 
case, the question arose whether the pamphlet containing the following state- 
ment amounted to an appeal on the ground of religion: — 

“Congress Election symbol: 

( ) 

This is the picture of two yoked bullocks. Bullocks remind us of 
villages. The charm displayed by them when moving on fields, in 
forests and on meadows and on green pastures pleases the minds 
of ryots and is a feast to their eyes. 

Bullocks is Shiva’s Nandi-Basavanna. Just as it is the mount of God 
it is also the servant of the country's economic system and the 
foundation and the transcedent power of the farmer.” 

It was held that the said paragraph 1 of the pamphlet amounts to an appeal 
in the name of religion or in appeal on the ground of religion. The reason 
given by Their Lordships is that it was represented by this appeal to the voters 
that the bullocks forming the Congress symbol was the mount of Shiva or have 
to be regarded as the same as Nandi, who is the mount of Shiva; that it amount- 
ed to an appeal to the voter’s that they had to cast their votes in favour of the 
Congress symbol, because the Congress symbol represents the mount of God. 

Once again, here, there is a specific and unmistakable appeal made to the 
religious emblem of Nandi, that is Shiva’s mount. It leaves no manner of 
doubt that this reference could be anything else than to the religious sentiments 
of the voters to vote for the symbol of the Congress, which was a pair of bullocks 
with yoke on, considering them to be the mount of God Shiva. As I have dis- 
cussed above nowhere in the 1 present case, any such appeal was made in the 
name of ‘Bhakta Dhruva’ or to the ‘Dhruva star’ as tire epithet of Shiva or as 
depicting ‘Dhruva’ of the mythology. 

(3) The other authority relied upon is Abdul Rahiman Khan v. R. K. Biswas 
Roy — is A.I.R. 1959 Orissa 188. This is equal to 19 E.L.R. 278. In the said 
case, the allegation was that the respondent carried on along with his supporters 
appeals through the use of religious symbols by saying that the Congress box 
carried the emblem of bullocks, which were the carriers of Lord Mahadev, and 
as such the electors should vote for him and that the other candidate was a 
Pathan, who did not honour the bullocks, and therefore, should not vote for 
him. In order to prove this allegation, reliance was placed upon a leaflet which 
contained the following statement: — 

“The bullock will pounce upon your bow and arrow (that being the 
symbol of the Ganantantra party) and Lord Shiva is sitting on the 
bullock. Wc the raiyats tend the T3ahan’ (carrier) of Shiva. You 
better run away with your bow and arrow. We will live in pros- 
perity if the bullocks continue to live amongst us. Therefore, do not 
mislead us by falsehood. The only other offending portion is the 
last stanza of the sixth poem marked exhibit 5(1). In exhibit 
5(1). it is stated: O! My farmer brethren listen to me and do not 
cast your vote in the box carrying the emblem of bow and arrow. 
The bullock is your deity in whom you should always have faith." 

Their Lordships have also held that there is evidence that the returned candi- 
date asked the electors to vote for the Congress on the ground that bullocks 
are the svmbol of that party and they are ‘Bahans’ of Shiva and it would 
be In conformity with their religion that they should not for sake this symbol. 
Further, it is held to he proved that it was canvassed by the successful candi- 
date that if the Ganatantra, whose candidate is a Pathan, is returned, he would 
convert the country into a Muslim country and that we would be leaving our 
religion. Thai the successful candidate further canvassed that his party had 
the symbol of bullocks which arc the Gods of Hindus and, therefore, his party 
should be supported. On these facts, in the said case, it was decided that the 
successful candidate had appealed to the voters on the ground of religion and 
to religious symbol. I think the facts hardly require any comments to show 
that there is no such evidence in our case and, therefore, this case cannot have 
any application to the present case. 



3992 rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/ AGRAHA YANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


(4) The last case relied upon is Shubnath v. Ram Narain A.T.R, 1960 supreme 
court 148. This is the appeal decided by the Supreme court over the decision 
reported in 21 E.I.R. 108 (Patna High Court), to which I have made a partial 
reference under issue No. 4. In this case, the allegation was that a leaflet addressed 
to the electorate mainly consisting of Adibasis issued by the candidate’s party 
consisting of Adibasis in the name of a ‘cock:’, which was the party’s symbol in. 
the election, amounted to an appeal on the ground of religion and religious symbol 
or not. The facts were that it was alleged that respondent No. 1 who was an 
Adibasi, belonged to the ‘Ho’ community classified as a scheduled tribe. He had 
contested the election on behalf of the Jharkhand party, the aim and objects where- 
of were to secure a separate administration unit for the Adibasis inhabiting in 
certain states. The said candidate and the Jharkhand party to which he belonged 
adopted ‘cock’ as election symbol. The other side had alleged that this ‘cock’ was 
considered by Adibasis as a symbol representing their object of worship, namely, 
their presiding deities of villages and forests, including the deities of prosperity, 
adversities and their controlling diseases. One of the recognised modes of wor- 
ship of these deities or some of them is that the cocks are sacrificed before their 
deities tio get happiness and to get rid of miseries. That the cock is sacrifted after 
some ceremonies. They have also got some beliefs in respect of the cock, if, before 
they sacrifles, he were not to peck at the rice which was offered to him. It was, 
therefore, asserted that for the Adibasis, the cock has special appeal to their 
religious sentiments and that the respondent No. 1 , in order to arouse hatred 
against the petitioner, who was a non Adibasi, and in order to get the support 
of voters of the aforesaid constituency, the majority of whom belonged to the 'Ho' 
and other Adibasi communities, printed and got published, leaflets and circulated 
them widely. 

The leaflets which were relied upon for these allegations were two — one of 
them was which I have already quoted while I discussed the matter under issue 
No. 4, while the otherone was as under: — 

‘Jal Jharkhand’, 'Jai Hind’. Do not spoil your votes casting them to other 
than ‘Sandi Sim’ box (box with cock symbol), Dear brothers and 
sisters, you know that the creation of a Jharkhand state is not a small 
(easy) task. It is a very big (difficult) job. From what we have 
heard and seen in the past, we have experienced and learnt that so 
long we are unable to get the State of Jharkhand, our miseries will 
have no end. The brothers of Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Bengal 
in collaboration with the brothers of Bihar are ready to work after 
creation of the Jharkhand state. Dear brothers and sisters, therefore, 
it is no time for us to lose heart. With the strength of the Jharkhand 
Party, our country is progressing towards well being and it would 
advance on. Brothers and sisters, it was with your help and sympa- 
thetic consideration that in the last election the Jharkhand Party's 
name has come in the lime light and spread throughout the country, 
My prayer to you is that in the ensuing election you would work with 
full pleasure and strength. 

It is a pleasure that in the state of Bihar and Orissa Jharkhand party got 
‘cock symbol.’ In the State of Orissa the Jharkhand party would set 
up 30 candidates for Assembly seats and 3 for parliament seats. In 
our own Singh Desum (Singhbhum) the Jharkhand party will set up 
its candidates for all seats, And it is indeed a great pleasure that the 
Jharkhand party has got back 'Sim Sandi’ box. Those brothers and 
sisters who would be set up as candidates oh behalf of the Jharkhandi 
party would be allotted boxes with a cock symbol. 

It Is this cock which can remove our miseries. Recognise very well this 
virtuous box with cock symbol and drop your votes only in the box 
with cock symbol. The sandi sim (cock) will fly all over the states 
of Orissa, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Bengal. Therefore, brothers 
and sisters, be careful and alert. Do not fall in false talks. Do not 
sell your victorious cock for money. 

Catch hold the victorious cock with pleasure. Test ass covers with tiger's 
skin and coloured Jackal. 


Identify them at the time of weeping or talk, That is why our Marang 
Gomke (great leader) has been always saying to us that you brothers 
and sisters should lend your ears and open your eyes. Do not become 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1 962/ AGRAHA YANA 17, 188-1 3993 ,- 


blind and deaf otherwise you would earn eternal miseries for your 
grand children (descendants). Therefore I humbly pray to you to 
put your votes in the box with cock symbol. 


'Jai Jharkhand' 

‘Jai Hind’ 

One who prays 

Sri Shubhnath Deogam, M.L.A. 

Dumbisal.” 

As regards the pamphlet No. 1 and which I have quoted under issue No. 4, it 
was held by the High, court that it did not amount to an appeal on the ground of 
religion. Regarding the second pamphlet quoted above also, the High Court held 
that it amounted to an appeal on the ground of religion. What is important to note 
is that the Supreme Court in appeal disagreed with the High Court and ruled 
that the second pamphlet quoted above did not amount to an appeal on the ground 
of religion at all. 

So far as the first pamphlet is concerned, the very reading of it shows that it was 
a direct and forceful appeal to the religious conscience of the Adlbasis. Their 
Lordships of the High Court as well as the Supreme Court, discussing the said 
pamphlet, definitely came to the conclusion that there was no possibility at all 
of construing this pamphlet, reasonably in any other manner which would dis- 
associate it from an appeal on the ground of religion. There is no such appeal made 
in the instant case. I have already discussed the facts of our case in this respect 
But what Is important to note is that the second pamphlet which the Supreme 
Court held not to amount to such an appeal on the ground of religion, inspite of the 
fact that the ‘cock’ which was held to have a religious significance and importance 
in the religious rites of the Adibasis, was referred to therein. In that case also, 
by the second pamphlet, there was an apeal to the voters to vote for the ‘cock’, 
which, as I have already stated, was held to be having a religious significance and 
yet it was held that it did not amount to an appeal on the ground of religion. In 
the present case also, there Is nothing more proved than the leaflets which con- 
tained a reference to the ‘Dhruva Tara r gnd an appeal to vote for the 'Dhruva Tara’. 
So, even If the ‘Dhruva Tara’ has any religious significance, that fact alone cannot 
go to constitute such an appeal as to fall within the purview of section 123(3). What 
is important to note is that the Supreme Court and the Patna High Court set aside 
the election because they came to a definite conclusion that the specific wordings 
contained in the first pamphlet amounted to a direct appeal to the Adibasis on 
the ground of religion and not because of the use of the word ‘cock’ having soma 
religious significance. Under these circumstances, I do not think this case can 
help the petitioner. On the contrary, I believe that tile reasoning adopted by 
Their Lordships goes to support the case of the respondent No. 1. 

118. I now consider the allegation in respect of the symbol of God Somnath. 
The alleged use of this symbol, as stated above, is in resDect of Exs, 28 and 29. 
I have already held that these pamphlets, which are the invitations on behalf of 
the Kshatriya Sabha for meetings, could not be held to have been published with 
the consent of respondent No. 1 and, in any case, it would not be held that therW 
was his consent, express or implied to the use of these emblems. The point for 
consideration under this issue is whether any appeal to these emblems are proved 
to have been made. There is not an iota of evidence on this score except the fact 
that these emblems appear on these two pamphlets. On the reasoning of the 
rulling in Shlvram Sawant Bhonsale V. Pratap Rao Deorao 17 E.L.R. 37 (Bombay 
High Court), I hold that it cannot be held that there was any appeal to these 

emblems. In connection with this point, it is of some importance to not that it 

was usual with the said sabha to use some emblems oh the invitation cards which 
indicated God Shiva issued by the Kshatriya Sabha and that it was not for usp 
for the first time for th e election purposes only. One such instance is at least 
on the record which is exh. 47, an Invitation card issued in March 1959. There is 
one other thing that may be noted that on ex. 26, which is another invitation 
leaflet of the Kshatriya Sabha, the emblem representing ‘Ganpati’ is shown. This 
shows that it was usual for this Kshatriya Sabha to use some sort of an emblem 

which had reference to some God and it was not used on Exs. 28 and 29, or as a 

matter of that, annexure ‘F’, with the object of appealing to the voters to vote on 
the ground of religion for the furtherance of the election prospects of respondent 
No. 1. It has further to be noted that these are meetings called by the Kshatriya 
Sabha and not by the Swatantra Party. From all these facts and "discussion, I hold 
that there was no appeal made to the emblem of God Somnath, nor was there an 



3994 THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1881 [Part II- 


appeal on the ground of religion in respect thereof, or was it made for the furthe- 
rance of the prospects of election of respondent No, 1. 

119. I hold issue No, 5 in the negative. 

120. Issue No. 8. — The case of the petitioner on this issue is that apart from 
publishing and circulating the leaflets and pamphlets, appeal was also made 
orally in the meetings held of the Kshatriya Sabha and the Swatantra party, on the 
ground of religion and community, in order to prove this, the oral evidence on 
behalf of the petitioner consists of himself and the three other witnesses. The 
Petitioner himself in his evidence Ex. 128 in the beginning tried to talk about several 
meetings of the said ‘Sabha’ and the 'Swatantra Party’ but then later had to admit 
that he had attended only one meeting held in his own village at Ajarpura and 
had no personal knowledge about any other meetings or conventions of the ‘Sabha’ 
or the ‘Swatantra Party . Regarding the meeting, he attended, his story in 
examination in chief is to the effect that the Swatantra party had called meeting 
on 12th February, 1962, In that meeting, the first speech was made by Fatehsinh 
Chauhan and he had referred to the fact of the published statements of respondent 
No. 1 and Chhatraslnh Atalis Annexture ‘A’ and Ex. 83 respectively and had said 
that respondent No. 1 was their leader and should make him successful in the 
election. That Chimanlal Dadubhai Desai had made a speech to the same effect. 
Vadodia had said that he was in Congress for 10 years but Congress had not given 
any benefit to the community, therefore he had disassociated himself from Congress 
and If those present were to vote for him and if he succeeded, hef would be more 
useful to them. This meeting was called by Fatehsinh. In the meeting the persons 
attending were mostly Kshatriyas. In cross examination, on behalf of respondent 
No. 2, he has said that the Kshatriya Sabha had decided "to join hands with 
Swatantra party about 6 months prior to the election and they were convassing 
on the ground of community. But, as stated above, he has no personal knowledge 
about any other meetings. In cross examination, on behalf of respondent No. 2, he 
stated to the effect that It is not true that any of the speakers, had appealed that 
votes should be given to the candidates of the Swatantra party. That the meet- 
ing at Ajarpura was called by Fatesinh on behalf of the Swatantra Party. However, 
the witness later admitted that he did not know whether the meeting was called 
by the Kshatriya or the Swatantra party. He further admitted that he did not 
know how In the election campaign meetings, votes were canvassed by the Swa- 
tantra Party. He also admitted that Vadodia was a candidate himself and Ajarpura 
was within his constituency. Asked about the speeches In the Ajarpura meetings 
that he had attended, he said that nothing was said in the speeches to explain the 
reasons why they had severed their connection with the congress or touched the 
topics of high cost of living or control or licensing system or expressed opposition 
to cooperative farming or freedom of trade and agriculture. He admitted that he 
was a follower of congress. This evidence of the petitioner on the point has not 
impressed me as reliable.' It is difficult to believe him when he says that none 
of the above mentioned topics was at all touched as these were the main grounds 
on which the respondent No. 1 and his helpers were campaigning. This was a 
meeting of the Kshatriyas and was held in the Kshatriya Mahollah as admitted by 
him and still he says he attended it. He is a Patidar himself. He stated there 
were other five or six Patidars also and has named three or four and said he knew 
that they were not the followers of the Swatantra Party, yet none of them has 
been examined to corroborate his story. Fatesinh named by the Petitioner in his 
evidence has been examined by respondent No. 1 as his witness, In his deposition 
Fatesinh has said, no meeting at. all was held at Ajarpura and at no time In such 
a meeting either he himself or Chimanlal Dadubhai Desai or Vadodida had made 
any speeches of the kind alleged. Chimanlal Dadubhai Desai, another witness 
for respondent No, 1, in his deposition Exh. 138, has also denied having attended any 
meeting at Ajarpura. I have no reason to prefer the uncorroborated evidence of 
the petitioner, to that of the other two. on this point and I. therefore, do not 
believe the petitioner’s story about the meeting at Ajarpura wherein the alleged 
speeches were made as tried to be suggested by him in his evidence. 

121. The witness for the petitioner Chhotabhai Gohel Ex. 130 has In examination 
In chief deposed to the effect that he had attended two meetings — one at Nadia cl on 
4tb January, 1962 which was a meeting called by the Kshatriya Sabha and the other 
at Vadod. The Nadiad meeting was called by the sabha to join hands with 
Swatantra Party. In the meeting, the respondent No. 1 had made a speech. The 
witness has tried to actually quote the words of the speech. But even if we believe 
that what he says is true. I do not think that the speech can be said to amount 
to an appeal to vote for him on the ground of community, for the furtherance of 
bis prospect of election. The resolution that were passed according to him clearly 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 3, , /AGRAHAyANA 17, 


show that the stress was on the tacts that Kshatjriyas should sever the connection 
with congress, resign their membership of the congress, join the Swatantra party 
and support the candidates of that party. Besides, I do not think this witness 
can be treated as an independent witness, on whose words implicit reliance could be! 
placed to prove the exact statement made by the respondent No. 1 in that meeting. 
He admits that he was formerly a member of the Kshatriya sabha and then he 
had left it. The ground for leaving it given by him is not very convincing. In 
any case, he is a dissident from that association, not only that but he admits that 
he had actively worked in the election as an employee of the congress. He is also 
employed with the Khadi Bhandar since about 3 months before his deposition. 
This witness is clearly, therefore, a partisan witness and I am not prepared to 
accept all that he has stated on the point, without any corroboration from inde- 
pendent evidence. Respondent No. 1 in his evidence has denied that he made any 
appeal on the ground of community or religion. 

122. The witness Exh. 132 Madhavsinh Raisinh talks about a meeting at village! 
Mogal. He says in examination in chief that respondent No. 1 had said in that 
meeting and had appealed to. give him votes and to Swatantra party. Bhaikaka 
had also made a similar appeal and so did Natverlal Dave. The witness says hd 
is one of the members of the village panehayat. In cross examination, he admits 
that he is an active worker of the congress, States Natverlal Dave Is a Brahmin, 
Then so far as Dave’s speech Is concerned, he admits that as Dave was the sup- 
porter of the Swatantra Party, he had appealed to vote for Swatantra paksh. 
Witness admits that the said speaker had also criticised the congress policy and 
touched the topics like free trade, agriculture and high taxes. On behalf of the 
respondent No. 1, Natversinh Solanki Ex. 139, speaks about the meeting. He has 
said that) speeches were made only to support the Swatantra Party and its candi- 
dates and no appeal made by respondent No. 1 to vote for himself at all. Respon- 
dent Np. 1 has also appealed for himself nor on the ground of caste or religlon. 
This witness Ex. 132, therefore, is also a partisan witness and no facts or 
circumstances arc established to prefer his evidence to the others. 

123. The last witness for the petitioner on the point is Ex. 134 Kanjibhai 
Bhikhabhai. He talks about the meeting at Cambay. He deposed that respon- 
dent No. 1 made a speech and had criticised the policy of the congress and said 
there was no place for good persons to remain with it and, therefore, he had left 
it. The Kshatriya sabha had also remained with congress, but no advantage was, 
gained and therefore the sabha has also decided to leave it. The sabha has now 
joined hands with Swatantra party and therefore they have to fight the election 
through swatantra party. The respondent No. 1 had also explained the Principles 
of the Swatantra party. There is nothing whatever in this evidence which goes 
to prove the allegation of the petitioner. On the contrary, if at all it goes to 
support the say of the respondent No. 1 on the point that he and others were cam- 
paigning for support to swatantra party and its candidates and not on the ground 
of caste or religion and that they were explaining the reason why they left 
congress and joined the swatantra party, 

124. The examining of the oral evidence led by the petitioner on this point, 
therefore, leaves me with only one impression that there is no reliable evidence 
at all placed on the record by the petitioner. The allegation is of a charge of 
currupt practice, a serious charge, and as already discussed the burden lies on 
the petitioner to establish it by convincing evidence, beyond a reasonable doubt. 
The evidence of witnesses led by the respondent on this point beyond the witnes- 
ses, I have already referred to is of a negative nature. They have all stated that 
the speeches made at several places where they were present, none had appealed 
on the ground of caste or religion and that the speeches were confined to appeal 
to the voters to support swatantra party and its candidates. I, therefore, find 
that the oral evidence led by the petitioner does not establish the said case and' 
allegation of the petitioner. 

125. Apart from oral evidence, the petitioner had tried to support his case on 
this point by reports of meetings appearing in newspapers. The petitioner on 
this point tried to prove the contents of the speeches reported In several copJes 
of the paper known as Swatantra sarjan. He examined the editor of the paper. 
His evidence is exh. 107. He has deposed that he has not preserved the original 
written reports of the respective meetings, they were destroyed according to the 
practice after 3 months. He said that during the relevant period, he had em- 
ployed temporary reporters and these reports were made by them. None of these 
reporters has been examined before me. The witness has of course said that the 
reports appearing In his paper had bee- in accordance with the written reports 
received but that cannot go to prove the veracity or accuracy of the original 
reports. In cross examination he has admitted that he made changes in the- 



OF 


A: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


G, 


report, but the names were not changed. 1 have herein before cited the autho- 
rity to support this view of mine. These newspaper copies, therefore, cannot be 
reUed upon for the purposes of proving the fact of the various persons having 
made the speeches as reported therein. These copies, however have been given 
the exhibits, as on behalf of the respondent No, 1, his Advocate has given a 
statement to the effect that he admits execution, which can only mean that he has 
no objection to their being exhibited without admitting the contents thereof. 
Besides, they can be referred to for the purposes of the fact of the publishing the 
star and the words ‘Dhruva’ used with it. I have dealt with this aspect under 
the relevant issue. 

125. Under all the above discussed facts and circumstances, I hold issue No. 8 
in the negative. 

126. As I have mentioned hereinabove, issues Nos. 6, 7, 9 and 10 were not pres- 
.sed, so no finding is necessary to be recorded, to the rest of the contentions and 
the issues I have given my due deliberation and have recorded my findings thereon. 
Though the statute intends to make a clear distinction, in the election propaganda 
of the candidates, between an appeal on the ground of religion, caste on com- 
munity on the one hand and other kinds of appeal on the other hand and also 
between ‘use’ of or ‘appeal’ to 'religious symbols’ and other symbols, it is found 
that in fact, in some cases, it is not possible always to draw a very defined 
•dividing line. In many a border line case, it becomes necessary to choose between 
two versions each of which is supported by its own strong set of facts, legal 
precedents and principles and which appear to be almost well balanced. All the 
.same, case law has by now laid down some over riding fundamental principles to 
help and guide the decisions of courts in such cases to do justice and equity. It 
may be said this case is one of such cases. I would like to record appreciation 
of the fact that the learned Advocates of the parties conducted this petition in 
the best traditions of the profession and did all to help the Tribunal to correctly 
assess the strength of their respective cases by placing the best part thereof in 
a fair and effective way, avoiding pressing in of unnecessary evidence or points 
of law and even conceding points which could not be fairly supported. After 
giving due consideration to all the material questions of law and fact, I have 
come to the conclusion that the petitioner has not been able to discharge the onus 
-of proof cast on him by law and has not proved, in any event, beyond reasonable 
doubt, that the respondent No. 1 committed any of the corrupt practices alleged 
-and therefore the petition should be dismissed. Accordingly I pass the following 
order: — 


ORDER 


The petitioner has made in the petition allegations against the respondent 
No. 1 of having committed the corrupt practices of (i) exercising nudue influence 
by way of threat, terror, Intimidation or compelling inducement so as to amount 
to direct interference with free exercise of electoral right of voters, (ii) appeal 
to voters to vote or refrain from voting on the ground of his religion, caste or 
•community for the furtherance of his election prospects as against respondent 
No. 2, (iii) use of or appeal to religion symbol for the furtherance of the pros- 
pects of his election as against respondent No. 2, (iv) promoting feelings of enmity 
-or hatred between different classes of the citizens of India on the ground of 
religion, caste or community, for the furtherance of his prospects of election 
against respondent No. 1, These allegations of corrupt practices have not been 
proved. The election petition, therefore, fails and Is dismissed with costs. 

In view of the provisions of section 99(1) (b) and section 120 and taking into 
■consideration the number of days for which the hearing lasted and the nature of 
the contest, I fix Rs. 500 as the total costs including counsel’s and pleader’s fees 
and order the same to be paid by the petitioner to the respondent No. 1. The 
said costs shall be recovered from the security deposit made h,y the petitioner. 
The Petitioner and the respondent No. 2 will bear their own respective costs. 

Sd./- N. K. Vakil, 

Member, Election Tribunal, 
Ahmedabad. 

Dated 3-10-62. 


True Copy 


N. K. VAKIL, 


P. Judge and Member, Election Tribunal. 

[No. 82/216/62,] 



■SBC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 19G2/AGRAHAYANA 17, 


New Delhi, the 22nd November 1962 

S.O, 3654.— It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica- 
tion under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
incurred by the person whose name and address are given below, has been 
removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred on it 
'by the said clause and section of the said Act- — 


Schedule 

Name and address of the disquali- 
fied candidate 

Serial No. and name of 
constituency 

Commission’s notification 
and date under which 
qualified 

No. 

dis- 

I 

2 

3 


"Shri Keshava Rishideo, Village 
Barhonahori Dumka, P.O. Sah- 

No. 20 — Sonbarsa 

No. RR-P/ 20/62 ( 14 ), dated the 
7 th May, 1962 . 


lamnagar, District Saharsa. 


LNo. BR-P/2O/02(14-R).] 
By Order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th December 1962 

S.O. 3655. — In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3(c) of Schedule 1 
■annexed to the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 15/13/59-(V)-P. IV, dated 
the I3th July 1962 [G.S.R. No. 991, published In the Gazette of India Part II, 
•Section 3, Sub-section (i), dated the 23th July, 1962] the Central Government is 
■pleased to specify Yuvraj Samvartak Pratap Singh, heir-apparent of the ruler of 
'Udaipur Dharamjaigarh (in District Raigarh, Madhya Praaesh) for the purpose of 
That entry and directs that the exemption shall be valid in respect of one gun/rifle 
*nd one revolver/pistol only. 

[No. 16/17/62-P, IV.] 
S. K. SINGH. Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1962 

S.O. 3656. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
4 of the Inter-State Corporations Act, 1957 (38 of 1957), the Central Govern- 
ment, after consulting the Governments of the States of Maharashtra, Gujarat, 
Mysore and Rajasthan, hereby make the following Order to amend the Bombay 
Labour Welfare Board (Reconstitution) Order, 1959, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Bombay Labour Welfare Board (Recon- 
stitution) Amendment Order, 1962. 

2. In State I appended to the Bombay Labour Welfare Boa d (Reconstitu- 
tion) Order, 1959, (hereinafter referred to as the said Order), 

(1) for the existing entries against serial Nos. 2, 3, 7 and 17, the following 
entries shall be substituted, namely: — 


S. No, Name of article 


No. or Qty. Hook Value Remarks 





Rs. 

Ag. 

IV 

2 

Chairs with arms 

I 

4 I 

0 

0 

3 

Chairs with arms 

0 

139 

3 

0 

7 

Table with drawer 

1 

47 

3 

0 

17 

Benches with back 

2 

30 

0 

0 



3998 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1 962 / AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


(2) at the end of the existing entries, 

(i) the following entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

S.No. Name of article No. or Qty. Book Value Remarks 


Rs.As. Ps. 

63 Teak wooden Pole (Flag Post! ... 1 400 

64 Lanterns (Unserviceable) .... 3 1000 


(ii) for the existing total of the Book value under the 4th Column, the 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“ 2 , 891 - 10 - 1 '’ 

3. In Statement II, appended to the said Order, 

(1) for the existing entries against serial Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 34 the follow- 
ing entries shall be substituted, namely: — 


S. No. Name of article No. or Book Value Remarks 




Qty, 





t- 

Rs. 

As. Ps. 

T 

Table with two drawers and side cupboard 

T 

22 

0 O 

2 

Table without side cup-board 

I 

15 

0 0 

3 

Tables with drawers . . . . . 

2 

44 

0 0 

4 

Table with drawers . 

I 

47 

8 0 

5 

Chairs with arms ..... 

4 

16 

0 0 

34 

Benches small ...... 

2 

TIO 

0 0 


(2) entries against serial Nos, 44, 46 to 49, 55 to 59, and 84 to 87 shall be 
omitted; 

(3) at the end, for the existing total of the Book value under the 4th 
Column, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"2,633-10-3.” 

4, In Statement in, appended to the said Order, 

(1) against serial No. 6 under the column “Name of article”, after the words 
“Volleyball poles”, the words “Square wooden” shall be inserted; 

(2) entries against serial No. 7 shall be omitted; 

(3) after the existing entries, 

(i) the following entries shall he inserted, namely: — 


S. No. 


Name of article 


No. or Book Value Remarks 
Qty. 


40 Trophies 

41 Shields 

42 Lanterns 

43 Photos 

44 Coir Rope 

45 Brass Tapped 

46 Lid for Tappeli 

47 Aluminium Basin 

48 Iron Frying Pan 

49 Brass Jalli 


Rs. As. Ps. 
26 
6 

1 480 

2 

I i 14 3 

I TO 4 I 

t S 4o 

I I 12 O 

I 214 3 

I 180 




Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 3, 19G2/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 3999 


(li) at the end for the existing total of the Book value under the 4th 
Column, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"3,383-10-4.” 

5. For Statement IV, appended to the said Order, the following Statement 
shall be substituted; namely: — 1 

“Statement IV 

I 


Pay as 
on 

30-11-59 

2 

D.A. 

3 

H.R.A. 

4 

Hubli 

Labour Welfare Centre, Mill Road 

Welfare Organiser. 

Rs. 80 — 4 — too — 5 — 125 
i. Shri N.B. Balchwal 


Rs. 

120 

Rs. 

50 

Rs, 

10 

Cleaner 

Rs. 30—1/2—35 

2. Shri T.A. Jadhav .... 


35 

40 

5 

Lady Part Time Worker 

Rs. 35—2—45 

3. Smt. S.E. Salins .... 


39 

35 


Male Part Time Worker 

Rs. 30 fixed 

4. Shri S.T. Manunnawalli 


30 

35 


Old Hubti 

Labour Welfare Centre 

Welfare Organiser 

Rs. 80—4—100 — 5—125 

1. Shri V.R. Devangraath 


100 

45 

5 

Cleaner 

Rs. 30—1/2—35 

2. Shri T.U. Meharwade 


5- 

40 

5 

Lady Part Time Worker 

Rs. 35—2—45 

3. Smt. A.G. Basrur .... 


39 

35 


Male Part Time Worker 

Rs. 30 fixed 

4. Shri J.T. Kalkoti .... 


30 

35 


Oadag 

Welfare Organiser 

Rs. 80 — 4 — too — 5 — 125 

1, Shri C.G. Deviah .... 


125 

50 


Cleaner 

Rs. 30—1/2 — 3J 

2. Shri B.D. Chalwadi .... 


33 

40 




4000 The GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 

i 234 

Rs. Rs, Rr. 


37 35 

30 35 

[No. F. 6/2/02-SR(R).] 
P. N. KAUL, Dy. Secy. 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 2 6th November 1962 

S.O. 3651. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ments shall be made to the Indian Frontier Administrative Service Rules, 1956, 
namely: — 

In Schedule I of the said rules, the existing entry at item (xiii) Deputy Adviser 
to the Governor of Assam (for NEFA, NHTA and Assam Rifles) be substituted by 
the following entry: 

‘‘(xiii) Secretary to the Governor, for Nagaland, Shillong." 

2. These amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have taken effect on and 
from 3rd May, 1962. 

[No. NI/827/62.] 
HAR MANDER SINGH, Dy. Secy. 


Lady Part Time Worker 
Rs. 35—2—45 

3. Kum, M.A. Kastury 

Male Part Time Worker 
Rs. 30 fixed 

4. Shri G.G. Gangiwati 




MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1962 

S.O. 3658 . — In pursuance of sub-rule(2) of rule 1 1, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of tie Central Civil Services (Classifi- 
cation, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) No. S.R.O. 639, dated the 28th February, 1957, nam ely : — 

In the said notification — 

1. In paragraph ( 1 ), for the words and figures “Appointing Authority and the authority specified in column 3 shall be the Disciplinary Autho- 
rity in regard to the penalties specified in column 4”, the following words and figures “Appointing Authority, the authority specified in " column 
3 shall be the Disciplinary Authority in regard to the penalties specified in col umn 4 and the authority specified in column 5 shall be Appellate 
Authority in regard to the penalties specified therein”, shall be substituted. 

2. in the Schedule to the said notification, for Part I, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

PART I— GENERAL CENTRAL SERVICES CLASS II. 


Authority’ competent to impose penalties and penalties 
which it may imposed (with reference to item 

Description of post Appointing Authority numbers in rule 13) APPELLATE 

AUTHORITY 

Authority Penalties 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


INDIAN AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS DEPARTMENT. 

Office of the Comptroller and 
Auditor General. 


Administrative Officer ■ ") Deputy’ Comptroller and Auditor 

i General/ Additional Deputy 

Assistant Private Secretary to V Comptroller and Auditor 
the Comptroller and Auditor [ General (Personnel). 

General. j 


Deputy Comptroller and Auditor All 
General/Additional Deputy 

Comptroller and Auditor General 
(Personnel). 


1 

I 

V 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/ AGRA HAYANA 17, 1884 4001 




I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Administrative Officer, Indian 
Audit and Accounts Service 
Training School. 

All Accounts and Audit Offices 
subordinate to the Comptroller 
and Auditor General- 

Deputy Comptroller and Auditor Ge- 
neral/ Additional Deputy Comptro- 
ller and Auditor General ( Person - 
nel). 

Deputy Comptroller and Auditor Ge- 
nerd/Additional Deputy Comptro- 
ller and Auditor General (Person- 
nel). 

Principal 

AH 

(i) to (viti) 

AH | 

I For (i) to (iii) — 

! Comptroller and 
'f Auditor-General. 

For (Iv) to (vii) — 

Assistant Accounts Officer 

Accountant General; Additional 

Accountant General; Comptroller; 

Accountant General; Additional 

Accountant General ; Comptroller ; 


President. 

Assistant Audit Officer . 

Director of Audit, Defence Servi- 
ces; Director of Commercial Au- 
dit; Director of Audit, Food, Re- 
habilitation, Supply, Commerce, 
Steel and Mines; Chief Auditor, 

Director of Audit, Defence Servi- 
ces; Director of Commercial Au- 
dit; Director of Audit, Food, Re- 
habilitation, Supply, Commerce, 
Steel and Mines; Chief Auditor, 

Ail ! 



Railways. 

Railways. 




[Tile above said schedule was last amended vide S. 0 , 2960 dates! th* 14th September, 5962]. 


[No. F. io( 7 >E.G.L/ 62 .] 

C. R, KRISHNAMURTHI, Dy. Secy. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, I9S2/AGRAHAYANA 11 , 1884 [Part IT* 



SBC. S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1902/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 4003 


(Department of Expenditure) 

Corrigendum 

New Delhi, the 24 th November 1962 

S.O. 3659. — In the Ministry of Finance, Notification No. 20(2)-E.G.I/62. dated 
the 14th September, 1962 [Published as S.O. 2960 in the Gazette of India Part II 
Section 3(ii) dated the 29th September, 1962] containing amendment to the Sche- 
dule to the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, 
the following amendment may be made in the penultimate line: — 

For “10th February, 1962’’ read ‘‘31st January, 1962”. 


[No, F,20(2)-E.G.I/62.] 
R. B. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1962 

S.O. 8660.— It is notified for general information that in pursuance of sub- 
eection (1) of Section 34 of the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 
1948), Messrs. S. B. Billimoria and Company, Chartered Accountants, 113, 
Mahatma Gandhi Road. Fort, Bombay, have been elected by the parties mentioned 
in sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the said Act, as one of the two auditors of the 
Industrial Finance Corporation of India for the year ending 30th June, 1963. 

[No. F. 2(84)-Corp/02J 

S.O. 3661. — In pursuance of Sub-section (1) of Section 34 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (16 of 1948) the Central Government in consulta- 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, hereby appoints M/s. 
S. Vaidyanath Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants, New Delhi as one of the 
Auditors of the Industrial Finance Corporation of India for the year ending 30th 
June, 1963. 

[No. F. 2(84)-Corp./62,] 
S. S. SHARMA, Under Secy. 




(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 3 (£h November 1962 

S.O. 3662. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 23rd November 1962 

Banking Department 


Liabilities Rs. Assets Rs. 


15,09.05.000 

2.16.000 

2.88.000 


23,97. 15/>» 
11,52,73,000 


2,84,88,000 


91.72.28.000 

6.0647.000 

1 8.45.49.000 

1.6845.000 
133,68,72,000 

148.07.000 
203^3, 34,ooo 

32.46.3 1.000 


54247,78,000 


*IncJutles Cash and Short Term Securities. 

••Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments. 

■f Includes Rs. 41,00,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17(4X0) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

|| Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. 

Dated the 28th day of November, 1962, 


Capital paid up. 

Reserve Fond ....... 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opera- 
tions) Fund ...... 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 


Deposits : — 

(a) Government 

(i) Central Government 

(ii) State Governments 

(i) Banks 

(i) Scheduled Banks 
fri) State Co-operative Banks 
(lit) Other Banks 

(c) Others .... 

Bills Payable 
Other Liabilities 


5.00. 00.000 

80.00. 00.000 

61.00. 004500 

7.00. 00.000 


65,3248,000 

5,70,69,000 


Rupees 


8145 . 47.000 

1.86.90.000 
5,36400 

16345.72.000 

32.1145.000 

39.40.11.000 

542.17.78.000 


Notes ......... 

Rupee Coin ........ 

Small Coin ........ 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) 
Fund 

(a) Loans and Advances to : — 

(i) State Governments .... 

(ii) State Co-operative Banks 

(iii) Central Land Mortgage Banks 

(f>) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 
Debentures ....... 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 
Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks . 
Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 

(а) Internal ..... 

(б) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 

Balances held abroad* 

Loans and Advances to Governments** 

Loans and Advances to : — 

(i) Scheduled Banks! 


(w 

Investments 
Other Assets 


(ii) State Co-operative Banksfl 
'■■y Others 


Rupees 


4004 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 



An account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 f° r the week ended the 23rd day of November 1962 

Issue Depahtmhvt 

Liabilities 

Rs. 

Rs. Assets 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Notes lie Id in the Banking 
Department .... 

1 5,09, 05,000 

Gold Coin and Bullion : — 



Note* in circulation 

2067,90*23,000 

(a} Held in India 

117,76,10,000 


Total Notes Issued 


(6) Held outside India 

2082,99^000 

Foreign Securities 

88,08,43,000 

1 



Total 


205,84,53,000 



Rupee Coin 


123,85,65,000 



Government of India Rupee 
Securities 


1753,2 9,io/»o 



Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial paper 



Total Liabilities 


2082,99,28,000 Total Assets 


2082,99,28,000 


Dated the 28th day of November, 1962. M. V. Rajigachari, 

Deputy Governor, 

[No. F,3( 2 )-BC/62j 


Sec:. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 0 . 1962/ACRAHAYANA 17 , 1884 4005 



4006 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


(Stock Exchange Division) 

New Delhi, the 3rd December, 1962 

S.O. 3663. — The Central Government having considered the application for 
renewal of recognition made under section 3 of the Securities Contracts (Regu- 
lation) Act, 1956, (42 of 1956), by the Delhi Stock Exchange Association 
Limited, and being satisfied that it would be in the interest of the trade and 
alsoi in the public interest so to do, hereby grants, in exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 4 of the said Act, recognition to the said Exchange, under 
section 4 of the said Act, for a further period of five years commencing on the 
9th December, 1962, and ending with the 8th December, 1967, in respect of con- 
tracts in securities subject to the condition stated herein below and such other 
conditions as may be prescribed or imposed hereafter : 

Condition 

The membership of the Stock Exchange shall be open only to individuals 
who shall hold two shares of the Company and are eligible to become and con- 
tinue to be members of a recognised stock exchange under the Securities Con- 
tracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; provided that such of the members as were 
admitted to provisional membership on holding one share and on payment of 
a cash deposit of Rs. 3,500 in lieu of another share shall be permitted to conti- 
nue as 1 provisional members only upto the 8th June, 1963, after which date they 
shall cease to have any rights even as provisional members, unless they acquire 
the second share and become members of the Stock Exchange in accordance 
with the above condition. 

[No. F. 1/4/SE/EAD/62.] 
A. BAKSI, Jt. Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-Tax. 

New Delhi, the 29 th November, 1962. 

S.O. 3664. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 126, of the Income- 
tax Act, 1961, (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendments in its Notification SRO-1214, (No. 44-Income-tax) 
dated the 1st July, 1962, namely: — 

In the schedule appended to the said notification for the existing entries in 
columns 4, 5, and 6 against SI. Nos. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20A, 20B, 21, 21A, 21B, 21C, 
21D, 21E, 21 F, 21G, 21H, 211, 21J and 72, the following entries shall be substitut- 
ed, namely: — 


Si. 

Nos. 

4 

5 

6 

1 6 

Inspecting Assistant Co- 
mmissioner of Income- 
tax ‘P’ Run no, Bombay. 

Appellate Assistant Co- 
mmissioner of Income- 
tax ‘P’ Range, Bombay. 

Commissioner of Income- 
tax, Bombay City I, Bom- 
bay. 

17 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

In 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

19 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

20A 

Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income- 
tax *P* Rarge, Bombay. 

Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income- 
tax *P’ Range, Bombay. 

Commissioner of Income- 
tax, Bombay City I, 
Bombay. 

20B 

Do, 

Do. 

21 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2lA 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2lB 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2lC 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2lD 

Do. 

Do, 

Do. 

2lE 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2IFJ 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2lG] 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2ljrf 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

2lll 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

21 J[ 

Do, 

Do. 

Do. 

72 

Inspecting Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income- 
tax *P’ Range, Bombay. 

Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner of Income- 
tax *P’ Range, Bombay. 

Commissioner of Income- 
tax, Bombay City I, Bom- 
bay. 


[No. 83 (F. No. 55/31 /62-IT).] 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8, 1962/ AGRAHA YANA 17, 1 8814007 


Income-tax 


New Delhi, the 30th Novettnber 1962 

S.O. 3665. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following further amendments to its notification S.O. 1391 (No, 21- 
Income-tax dated the 7th May, 1962), namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification for the existing entries against 
Jalpaiguri Range in column 1 and 2, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

Jalpaiguri 

1. Jalpaiguri Income-tax Circle, Jalpaiguri. 

2. Siliguri Income-tax Circle, Siligurl. 

3. Income-tax Circle Darjeeling, Darjeeling, 

Explanatory Note 

Note. — This amendment has become necessary due to the bifurcation of an 
Income-tax, Circle. 

(This note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clariflcatory) . 

[No. 84 (F. No. 50/16/62-IT) J 
New Delhi, the 1st December 1962 

S.O. 3666. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 121 
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and in partial modification of all previous 
notification on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that with 
effect from 5th October, 1962 (forenoon) Shri H. P. Sharma, a Commissioner of 
Income-tax shall perform all the functions of Commissioner o f Income-tax in res- 
pect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or 
classes of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the 
Income-tax Circles, Wards or Districts in the State of Mysore. 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions In respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him. 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions In respect of such per- 
sons or of such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income-tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional area. 


While performing the said functions the said Shri H. P. Sharma shall be desig- 
nated as the Commissioner of Income-tax, Mysore with headquarters at Bangalore. 

Explanatory Note 

Note. — The amendments have become necessary due to change in the incumbent 
of Commissioner’s post. 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clariflcatory). 

[No. 86 (F. No. 55/11/62-IT).] 

S.O. 3667. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
121 of the Income-tax Act, 1061 (43 of 1961) and in partial modification of all pre- 
vious notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that 
with effect from 15th November, 1962 (forenoon) Shri K. M, S. Reddy, a Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax shall perform all the functions of Commissioner of Income- 
tax in respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such 
incomes or classes of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised 
In the Income-tax Circles, Wards or Districts in the State of Mysore. 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him. 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions In respect of such per- 
sons or of sfich cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income-tax Authority 
outside his jurisdictional area. 



4008 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1 962/ AGRAHAYA N A IV, 1884 [Part II- 


While performing the said functions the said Shri Reddy shall be designated as 
the Commissioner of Income-tax, Mysore with headquarters at Bangalore. 

Explanatory Note 

Note. — The amendments have become necessary due to change in the incumbent 
of Commissioner’s post. 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory). 


[No. 86 (F. No. 55/1/62-IT).] 
New Delhi , the 3rd December 1962 

S.O. 3668 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
122 of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments to its notification S.O. 1322 
(No. 18-Income-tax dated the 1st May 1962), namely:— 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Notification in col. 2 for" the existing 
entries, against 'A' Range, New Delhi, 'B' Range, New Delhi, 'C' Range, New Delhi, 
‘F’ Range, New Delhi and 'A' Range, Jaipur, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: - ■ 

‘A’ Range, New Delhi 

1. Income-tax-eum-Wealth Tax Circles I and VII, New 

Delhi. 

2. Companies Circles, New Delhi except companies 

Circle II, New Delhi. 

3. Central Circle I(i), V, VI & VII Delhi. 

4. B-I, B-I(l), B-III, B-III(l), B-XVI and B-XVI(l), 

Districts, New Delhi. 

5. All Contractors Circles, New Delhi. 

6. Ward No. VIII, Delhi. 

7. Evacuee Circle, New Delhi. 

8. Salary Circles, Delhi. 

9. All Private Salary Circles, New Delhi. 

‘B’ Range, New Delhi 

1. Income-tax-cum-Wealth Tax Circles III and IX, 

New Delhi. 

2. Special Circles, New Delhi. 

3. Additional Special Circle-II, New Delhi. 

4. Special Investigation Circles A, B and C, New 

Delhi. 

5. A-I, A-I(l), A-II, A-III, A-IV and A-IV(l) Dis- 

tricts, New Delhi. 

6. All Business Circles, New Delhi. 

7. Central Clrcle-II, New Delhi. 

8. Ward Nos, VI, IX(1), IX (II). IX(III), IX(IV) 

and IX (V), Delhi, 

9- B-II, B-VTII and B-VIII(l) Districts, New Delhi. 

10. Refund Circle, New Delhi. 

‘C’ Range, New Delhi 

1. Income-tax-cum-Wealth Tax Circle IV and VIII, 

New Delhi. 

2. Companies Circle-II, New Delhi. 

3. Central Circles II, III & IV, Delhi. 

4. Estate Duty-cum Income-Tax Circle, New Delhi 

6. B-XIV, B-XIV(l), B-XIV (2), B-XV and B-XV(l) 
Districts, New Delhi. 

6. Foreign Section, Delhi, 

7. Survey Wards Nos. I and II, Delhi 

8. Ward Nos. I, 1(1), 1(2), II, III, IV & V, Delhi. 

9. C-I, C-I(l), C-II and C-III Districts, New Delhi. 

‘F’ Range, New Delhi 

1. B-V, B-V(l), B-VI, B-VI(l), B-VIIj B-VII(t) 
B-XVII, B-XVII(l), B— XVII (2), B-XVII(3) and 
B-XVII(4) Districts. New Delhi. 



Sec. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8, 1 962 / AGRAIIA YANA 17 , 1884 4009- 


‘A’ Range, Jaipur 

1. A, Additional A, B, Additional B and C Wards, 

Jaipur, 

2. Special Investigation Circles A & B, Jaipur. 

3. All Income-tax Wards having Headquarters at 

Kotah. 

4. Alwar. 

Explanatory Note 

Note— The amendments have become necessary on account of creation of new 
Income-tax Circles in the Commissioner's charge. 

(This note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clariflcatory) . 

[No, 87 (F. No. 50/10/62-IT),'! 


CORRIGENDUM 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1962 

S.O. 3669. — In the Board’s Notification No. 75 dated the 7th November, 1962, 
published in Part II Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India as S.O. No. 3438, dated 
the 17th November, 1962, for the words “shall take effect from 15th November, 
1962” appearing in last line of the notification, read “shall take effect from the 
1st December, 1962”, 

[No. 82 (F. No. 50/9/62-IT) .] 
J. RAMA IYER, Under Secy. 


Customs 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1962 


SO 3670. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (c) and (d) of 
section 11 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, (6 of 187B), the Central Board of Reve- 
nue hereby makes the following further amendment to its notification No. 197, 
Customs dated the 28th June, 1958, namely:— 

In the Schedule to the said notification, after the entries relating to wharf 
No. 23, the following shall be added, namely: — 


“Cochin 

Port 


24 Cochin New wharf on the Ernakulam All goods 

Port Au- side of Wiliingdon Island 
thority south of berth already dec- 

lared as wharf under section 
11 of the Sea Customs Act, 

1878 in the Gazette of India, 
Notification No. 122 dated the 
8th September, 1962. Length 
about 500' capable of berthing 
a medium size steamer. Nor- 
thern limit berth No, 23 dec- 
lared as wharf under section 
11 of the Sea Customs Act, 

1878 in the Gazette of India 
Notification No. 122 dated the 
8th September, 1962. Southern 
limit new berth under cons- 
truction. Eastern limit back- 
water and Western limit wharf 
boundary wall. 


Landing 

and 

Shipping’’ 


[No. 181/F. No, 54/4/62-Cus.IV.], 

S. VRNKATESAN, Secy. 



4010 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1 962/ AGR AHA YANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, BANGALORE 

Centrae Excises 

Bangalore , the l&th November 1962 

S.O. 3671. — In exercise of the powers vested in me under rule 5 of the Central 
Excise Rules 1944, I hereby empower the Superintendents of Central Excise to 
exercise the powers of Collector of Central Excise in their jurisdiction in regard 
to sanction of refund of initial deposits paid under compounded levy scheme by 
manufacturers of Khandsarl Sugar under Rule 92 B(3) of Ceneral Excise Rules, 
1944, subject to the monetary limit of Rs. 500/- in each case. 

(Issued from file C. No. IV/16/79/01— B2). 

['No. 13/62.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

Bangalore, the 7th November 1062 

S.O. 3672.— In the Schedule to the Notification No. 2/62, dated 25th January, 
1962, published under S.O. 543 in Part II Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India, 
dated 24th February, 1962, the following amendments are ordered with immediate 
effect. 

In SI. No. 5, against Chikmagalur district substitute the following in columns 
2, 3 and 4: — 


] 


2 


3 


4 


5- Chikmagalur 

, Kalasapur in Chikmagalur 

Range Officer of Central 

taluk. 

Excise Chikmagalur. 


S ringed in Sringeri taluk. 

Holamartar Balagant 

RangeOfficer of Central 
Excise Jayapura. 


Heggur, Kara mane 

Devambali in Koppa 
taluk. 

Do. 


Hosaketi in Mudigere . . 

RangeOfficer of Central 


taluk. 

Excise Mudigere. 


[No. 2/62] 
N. MOOKHERJEE, Collector. 


THE MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, MADRAS 

Central Excises 

Madras, the 20th November 1962 

S.O. 8673. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 6 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944, the undersigned hereby delegates to the Assistant Collector of 
Central Excise (Technical) at the Collectorate Headquarters Officer Madras, the 
powers of the Collector under Rules 189(A) and 189(B) of the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944. This Collectorate Notification C. No. IV/16/183/57-Ex.Pol. dated 
21st February 1958 is hereby cancelled, 

[C. No. IV/16/391/62. C. E. POL.] 
A. K. ROY, Collector. 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE, ASSAM, MANIPUR & TRIPURA 

Central Excise 

Shillong, the 26 th November 1962 

S.O. 3674. — In exercise of the powers conferred under Rule 92B(3) of Central 
Excise Rules 1944, I hereby empower the Superintendent of Central Excise to 
exercise the powers of Collector of Central Excise in their jurisdiction In regard 





Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8, 1 962/ AGRAHA YANA 17, 1884 AOJl 


to grant of refund of initial deposits paid under compounded levy scheme by manu- 
facturers of Khandswari Sugar subject to the extend of limitations set out in. 
column 2 of the table appended below:— 


Nature of refund 

1 


Monetary limit 
2 


Refund of initial deposits 
paid under compounded levy 
scheme. 

Rs. 500/- in each case. 


[No. 3/02.J, 
B. S. CHAWLA, Collector, 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS, JODHPUR 


To 


Jodhpur, the 28th November 1962 


1. Shrl Mohammed s/o Hamida Nai, R/o Nawab Shah, (Pakistan). 

2. Yasin s/o Mohd., R/o Montgomery (Pakistan). 

3. Gavak Din »fo Moosa, R/o Hyderabad (Pakistan). 

4. Faiz Mohd. s/o Mir Bux, R/o Bhawal Nagar (Pakistan), 

5. Chhoga s/o Bir Bux, R/o Bhawal Nagar (Pakistan), 

Subject, — Customs-Seizure of Pak Currency, Indian Currency and Silver Jewel- 
lery on 12 th February 1954. 

S.O. 3675. — Indian Currency and Silver Jewellery seized from You on the 
night of 11-12 February 1054 have been ordered to be released to you by the 
S.D.M., Raisingh Nagar. An intimation is, therefore, given to you that you can- 
take delivery of the same from the Assistant Collector of Customs (Prev.), 
Kuchaman House, Pali Road, Jodhpur within 10 days of the date of publication 
of this notice failing which the same will be disposed of according to law. 

[C. No, VIII ( 10 )-2 10/ JD/ 62-23046-47.] 

O. P. HASIJA, 
Superintendent (Prev,) 
for Assistant Collector. - 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

HYDERABAD, DECCAN 

Central Excises 

Hyderabad, the 30th November 1962 

S.O. 3676. — In pursuance of Rule 5 of Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby 
empower the Superintendents of Central Excise to sanction refund of initial 
deposits paid under compounded levy scheme by manufacturers of Khandasari 
Sugar under Rule 92 B(3) of Central Excise Rules 1944, subject to the monetary 
limit of Rs. 500 in each case. 


[No. 16/62.] 
R, C. MEHRA, Collector. 





4012 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 19G2/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


OFFICE OF T H E ASSTT. COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND LAND 
CUSTOMS: GOA FRONTIER DIVISION: BELGAUM 

NOTICES 

Belgaum, the 28 th November 1962 

S.O. 3677. — Whereas It appears that the marginally noted goods which were 
seized, case No. 1: — 


(1) “Matador Garantie” Hard 
Rubber combs. (8" X ii"J 34 1 
Dozens made in Austria — 
Rs. 1020-00. 

(2) “Max” chewing Gum 66 
packets made in England, (each 
containing 75 small packets of I 
4 pieces in each) Rs. 528-00. 

(3) Zundsteine lighter flints made ! 
in Austria. 2 tins, 7800 Grams. 
Rs, 400-00. 

Case No. 3 
Cloves in four gunny bags 
weighing 213 Lbs. net 
Rs. 3834-00. 


by the Dy. Supdt, Customs and Central Excise Goa 
Frontier Divn., Belgaum at a place near Bennall 
village Dist. Belgaum on 19th June 1962 in respect of 
case No. 1 and at a place near Rakaskop on 14th Octo- 
ber 1962 in respect of case No. 2 were imported into 
India in contravention of Section 167(8) of the Sea 
Customs Act 1878 and. further deemed to have been 
issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act 
1878, 


2. Now therefore any person claiming the goods 
is hereby called upon to show cause to the A.C. 
Goa Fr. Dn, Belgaum why the above mentioned 
goods should not be confiscated under Section 
167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and why a 
penalty should not be Imposed under Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878. 


3. If such a owner falls to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 10 days 
from the publication will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 

[No. VIIJ(b) 10-76/02.] 


Belgaum, the 28th November 1962 

S.O. 3678. — Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 
seized by the Officers of Customs and Central Excise Goa Frontier Division, 


Case No. 1 
(0 213 Great gross of 
, C 55S’ Press Studs made 
in Germany in five 
gunny bags Rs. 4260/-. 
(ii) 96 mouth organs 
“PUCK” (Small size) 
mad e in Germany, 
Rs. 192/-. 

ili) One old leather bag 
Rs. 3 1- 

Total Rs. 4455 /- 
Case No. 2 

(i) 85 Great Gross ‘555’ 
Press Studs made in 
Germany at Belgaum, 
Rs. 1700/- 


Belgaum at Watve Village, District Belgaum on 27th 
April, 1962 in respect of case No. 1 and at a place 
known as Laxmi Tekadi near Belgaum on 26th 
July, 1962 In respect of case No. 2 were imported into 
India in contravention of Section 167(8) of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 and further deemed to have been 
issued under Section 19 of the Sea— Customs Act, 
1878. 

2. Now therefore any person claiming the goods is 
hereby called upon to show cause to the Assistant 
Collector, Central Excise, Goa Frontier Division, 
Belgaum why the above mentioned goods should not 
be confiscated under Section 167(8) of the Sea Cus- 
toms Act, 1878 and why a penalty should not be Im- 
posed under Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 
1878. 


3. If such a owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 10 days 
from the publication will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 

fNo. VIII(b) 10-67/62.] 

Belgaum, the 31st November 1962 

S.O . 3679. — Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 
seized by the Officers of Customs and Central Excise, 
Goa Frontier Division Belgaum at a place near 
Mannur village in Belgaum Taluka on 1st August, 
1962, in respect of Case No. 1 and at Belgaum Rail- 
way Station on 19th May, 1962, in respect of Case 
No. 2 were — imported into India in contravention of 
Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878, and 
further deemed to have been issued under Section 19, 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 


Cinamons weighing (77 
K, Gms. (Gross) in two 
bundles, Rs, 3000 Oo. 

Case No. 2 

Cinamon weighing 46 
K. Gm. in one wooden 
case, Rs noo-oo. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 8 , 1982 /AGRA HA YANA 17. 1884 4013 


2. Now therefore any person claiming, the goods is hereby called upon to 
show cause to the Assistant Collector C. Ex, Goa Fr, Dn, Belgaum why the above 
mentioned goods should not be confiscated under Section 187(8) of the Sea Customs 
Act, 1878, and why a penalty should not be imposed under Section 167(8) of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 

3. If such a owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to Show Cause — against the action proposed to be taken within 10 
days from the publication will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be 
decided accordingly. 

(No. VIII (b) 10-75/62,] 
R. K. AUDIM, Assistant Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30th November, 1962 

S.O. 3680 IDRA/6/5. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), read with 

rules 5(1) and 8 of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1962, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri K. P, S. Nair to be a member, till the 10th 
September, 1063, of the Development Council established by the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 2276, 
dated the 11th September, 1901, for the scheduled industries engaged in the 
manufacture or production of electric motors and of machinery and equipment 
for the generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy (excluding 
house service meters and panel instruments), and directs that the following 
amendment shall be made in the said Order, namely: — 

In the said Order, for entry No. 20 relating to Shri S. S. Kumar, the follow- 
ing entry shall be substituted, namely: 

“20. Shri K. P. S. Nair, Consumers” 

member, 

Central Water and Power Commission, 

Bikaner House, New Delhi. 

[No. 1(5) L. Pr,/60.] 
S. P. KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

Export Trade Control 
New Delhi, the 8th December, 1962 

S.O. 3681.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Imports & 
Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947), as In force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment to the Exports (Control) Order, 1962, namely: — 

In Part B of Schedule I to the above Order — for item 7, the following shall be 
substituted : — 

“7. Bones, Bone meal and Bone sinews.” 

[No, 2A/Export(5)/62.] 
S. HAMID, Dy. Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Dcl'ii, ih’ 26th November, 1962 

S.O. 3682. — -In partial modification of the rate of marking fee for BHC, Technical, notified 
in the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Indian Standards Institution) 
Notification No. S.O, 2328 dated the 16th October, 1959, published in the Gazette of Indio, Part 
II — Section 3 — Sub-Section (ii) , dated the 24th October, 1959, the Indian Standards Institution 



4014 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1902/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Past II- 


herebv notifies that the marking fee per unit for BHC, Technical, details of which are given in the 
Schedule hereto annexed, has been revised. The revised rate of marking fee shall come into 
force with immediate effect. 

The Schedule 


Ser- 

ial 

No. 

Product/Class of 
Product 

No. and Title of relevant Indian 
Standard 

Unit 

Marking Fee per 
Unit 

I. 

BHC, Technical 

IS : 560-1961 Specification for 
BHC, Technical ( Revised) 

One 

Metric 

Tonne 

Rs, 5.00 with a mini- 
mum of Rs. 2,000.00 
per calendar year. 




C. N. 

[No. MD/18 :2] 
modawal. 


Head of the Certification Marks Division. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL & HEAVY INDUSTRIES 
(Department of Iron & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 28 th November 1982 

S.O. 3683/ESS.COMM/Iron & SteeI/27 (I)/AM(7<».— The following Notification 
issued by the Iron and Steel Controller under Sub-clause (1) of Clause 27 of the 
Iron & Steel (Control) Order, 1036 is published for general information: — 

"Notification 

In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-clause (1) of Clause 27 of the Iron 
& Steel (Control) Order, 1956 and with the approval of the Central Government, 
the Iron and Steel Controller, in supersession of all previous Notifications hereby 
notifies the following revised selling prices of Schedule V-Iron and Steel Defective 
and Scrap of the Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, Iron & Steel Control, Cal- 
cutta’s Notification No. S.O. 2249-ESS.COMMUron & Steel-15(l) and 27(1) publish- 
ed in Part II Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India dated 1st November 1958 and 
No. ISC|AP]62I60 dated 8th November 1960 published in Part III Section I of 
Gazette of India dated 24th December 1960 as amended from time to time: — 

Schedule V ( Amendment ) 

Iron and Steel Defective and Scrap Part I-A 
(Fresh, Unused Defectives) 

Schedule V 

Part DA (Fresh, Unused Defectives') 


Maximum basic prices per metric 
ton at all Railhead Stations in 


Item 

No, Description or classification of materials 

India in Rupees per M/ Ton 

Col. I 

Col. II 

Col. Ill 


For sales by 

For sales by 

For sales by 


Controlled 

Scrap 

all persons 


Sources other 

Merchants 

other 


than those 

who have 

than those 


mentioned 

been 

mentioned 


in Col. II 

declared 

in Cols. 



Controlled 

I & II 



Sources 


I 2 

3 

4 

5 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

1 Bars & Rods — Mild Steel Rounds and Squares 




below 80 mm and Flats upto and including 
125 mm wide — Defective or Rejected Bars 
above 2 -75 m long and Rods above 

2 '45 M long Base 

573 

598 

618 


Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 4015 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

2 

Fishplates— Defective or Rejected for Heavy or 
light rails , . . 

Rs. 

517 

Rs. 

542 

Rs 

562 

3 

Plates — Defectives or Rejected to mm & up 
thick 750 mm and above in width, rsoo mm 
& above in length— Base . 

647 

672 

692 

4 

Plates— Chequered 6 mm Defective or 
rejected — -full size — Base 

663 

688 

708 

5 

Rails Steel, Defective or Rejected above 3 65 

M and up long 

(a) Light • • 

546 

571 

59i 


(b) Heavy ..... 

536 

561 

581 

6 

Semis — -Defective or Rejected (Ingots, Blooms, 
Billets over 100 mm Slabs over 80 mm 
thick) ..... 

434 

459 

479 

7 

Sheets — Black— Defective or Rejected and cut 
down over 6to mm width and not below 

1 ■ 22 M in length 3 • 2 to 2 ■ 0 mm— Base 

722 

747 

767 

8 

Sheets — Galvanised Corr. Defective or 

Rejected and Spotted — Full size 0-63 mm 
gauge — Base ..... 

839 

864 

884 

9 

Sleepers— Steel — Defective or rejected 
fa) Metre Gauge 

56i 

586 

606 


(b) Broad Gauge 

512 

537 

557 

10 

Sleepers Bars — Defective or Rejected 2-75 

M and above .... 

475 

500 

520 

II 

Structurals (including Bars, Rounds & Squares 

80 mm and above & Flats above 125 mm 
wide)— Defective, Rejected and non- 
standard over 2 - 75 M long Base 

588 

6i 3 

633 

12 

Tinplate Waste Waste full size all gau- 
ges 

1099 

1129 

1149 

13 

Cold Rolled Sheets — Defective or Rejected 
and cut down over 6ro mm width and 
not below 1-22 M in length, 3-15 to 2-0 
mm — Base ..... 

794 

819 

839 

*4 

Hot Rolled Strips or B.P. Sheets in Coils — 
Defective or Rejected 3-15 mm to 2-00 mm 
—Base ..... 

688 

713 

733 

15 

Cold Rolled Strips in Coils — Defective or 
rejected 3 ■ 15 mm to 2-00 mm — Base 

760 

7 8 5 

803 


N.B. — Items marked Base, will carry only Sectional Extras as in Extras List for Prime 
quality Steel, 


Part II-A ( Fresh Re-rollabU Scrap) 


Item Description or classification of materials 

No. 


Maximum basic 
prices at all 
Railhead Stations 
in India in 
Rupees per M/Ton 


1 2 3 


Rs. 

1 Plates, Shearing (resulting from fabrication work or from Producers) 

both Plain and chequered of thickness 8 mm and up . , 426 

2 Rails, Steel-heavy, cuttings o-6t M to 3-65 M long . . . 384 





4016 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/ AGRA HAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


I 

2 

3 



Rs. 

3 

Roll— spoils 20 mm and thicker ...... 

426 

4 

Semis — .Defective Billets upto ioo mm and Slabs upto 8o mm 
sheet Bars, Tin-bars and Sleeper Bars and Flat Bars and also 

Sheet Bar and Tin Bar crop Ends above thickness 8 mm and up 

434 

5 

Sleeper Bars — cuttings o-6i M to below 2-75 M 

426 

6 

Structurals, cuttings, viz.. Joists, Channels and Angles 0'6iMto 

2 ■ 75 M long and 8 mm thick and up .... 

426 

7 

All other fresh materials considered by Iron & Steel Controller as 
suitable or fit for re-rolling ....... 

421 


Part II-B ( Used Re-rollable Scrap) 


I 

Axles straight too mm dia and below (Railway Loco C. & W.) 
fit for re-rolling ........ 

364 

2 

Draw Bars— Steel (with or without Hooks) above 1 ‘80 M long 

335 

3 

Fish-Plates for Heavy Rails, unserviceable 

315 

4 

Plates — Shipbuilding, Railways, etc. with or without holes-8 mm 
and up thickness . ..... 

325 

5 

Rails — Steel Heavy 0-61 M to 3 • 65 M long (including Points and 
Crossings and unserviceable Rails of all length) 

335 

6 

Sleepers, Steel — Full lengths ....... 

325 

7 

Structurals-lncludlng Bars (Rounds and Squares 80 mm and above 

Flats above 125 mm wide) o- 61 M to 2' 75 M long 

335 

8 

Tie Bars — Mild Steel-punched 0 ■ 61 M long and over 

285 

9 

Tyres Scrap (with or without studholes) .... 

335 

IO 

All other used materials from any source Including such scrap 
recovered from old fabrication heavy structurals and Bars over 

8 mm thickness inclusive suitable or fit for re-rolling 

320 

N.B, — (i) The following Hallway materials will be Included In Item No. 10 of 
Part II-B above: — 


1. Fabricated materials of Rounds, Squares and Flats with and without 
attachments. 


2. Fire Prickers — 31.75 mm square and up. 

3. Truss Bars — 31.75 mm square and up, 

4. Beams, fabricated, without attachment. 



6. Channels, fabricated, comprising of bogle under-frames 
under-frames. 

and wagon 


0. Channels, fabricated, Engine and Tender Frames. 

7. Locos Tender and Bogie frames fabricated from heavy M.S. 

Plates. 

N.B.~ (11) If any material described under Part II-A and II-B above is allotted 
to a Controlled Scrap Merchant for resales, the chargeable rate of the Stockist 
will be Rs, 26/- per M/Ton more than the rate fixed for the materials under 
these Parts. 


Part II Inge ould Sera in 1 i rms and Rejected Bottom' Plates, 



Item Description or Classification Rate per M/ton at all Rails head 

No. of r_ Staions in India 




Col. I 

Col. II 

Col. Ill 



Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

I 

Unbroken— 7 ■ 1 1 M/Ton to 9 ■ 14 M/Ton. 

138 

153 

173 

2 

Semi-broken 1 ■ 02 M/Ton and under . 

148 

163 

183 

3 

50 Kg. and under, broken by Controlled 
Scrap Merchants 


192 

207 

•• 




Sic, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER S, 1062/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 4017 


N.B. — The control on prices of all categories of scrap under Parte IB. IC and 
III except Ingot Mould Scrap in all forms have been removed with effect from 
the date of publication of this notification. The control on prices of cuttings 
Included in Part I-A should also be deemed to have been removed from the date 
of publication of this notification. 

CONDITIONS FOR SALE 
Part 1 — General 

1. This Scrap Price Schedule has been divided into the following parts: — 

(1) Part I-A — Fresh unused Defectives. 

(2) Part II-A — Fresh Re-rollable Scrap. 

(3) Part II-B — Used Re-rollable Scrap, and 

(4) Part III— Ingot Mould Scrap In all forms and Rejected Bottom Plates. 

2. The prices shown in the above Schedule and the other provisions relevant 
thereto as set forth below shall come into force with effect from the date on 
which they are published in the Gazette of India and notwithstanding the rates 
at which an order has been booked and/or materials paid for, shall apply to all 
deliveries effected on or after that date. In cases where deliveries are effected 
by Ralls, the date of Railway Receipt shall be deemed to be the date of delivery. 

3. The prices in this Price Schedule are made applicable at all Rail Head 
Stations in India. 

4. (a) Extras for section, gauge or thickness or for quality as admissible from 
time to time, for prime quality steel will apply to Defectives, only to the extent 
indicated In the foot notes to the Scrap Price Schedule. 

(b) Where a lot consists of a mixture of different Sections, sizes, thicknesses 
or gauges and a separate price for mixed lots has not been fixed, the price will 
be calculated on the lowest priced section, size, thickness or gauge. 

5. These prices are for cash sales. The question of credit facilities is a matter 
for negotiation between the buyer and the Better. 

6. (i) Octroi, Sales or other taxes incurred in the process of delivery of 
Defectives and Scrap from the seller to the buyer shall be borne by the latter. 

(ii) The buyer shall pay to the Seller the Central Sales Tax incurred by the 
Seller under the Central Sales Act, 1950, in obtaining the materials (Defectives 
and Scrap) and also the Central Sales Tax if any incurred on the sales of Scrap 
and Defectives to the buyer. 

7. Where no appropriate price has been notified for any Item of scrap, the 
Controller may classify such item or items and fix such price as he may consider 
appropriate. 

8. The chargeable weight in respect of all kinds of Defectives and Scrap shall 
be actual scale weight. 

A — Special Conditions for Sales by the Main Producers [viz., Messrs Tata 
Iron & Steel Co, Ltd., Calcutta, Indian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., Calcutta, 
Hindustan Steel Ltd., (Bhilai Rourkela and Durgapur Projects) and 
Mysore Iron and Steel Works, Bhadravati and by Secondary Regis- 
tered Producers viz., Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd., Indranagar 
and Tinplate Co, of India Ltd., Tatanagar]. 

1. (a) Sales and despatches in full wagon loads of Defectives Scrap etc., by 
the above Main and Secondary Registered Producers shall be made f.o.r. destina- 
tion i.e., the base prices shown in Col. I and materials shall be despatched 
'freight Paid’, 

(b) Where wagons are not fully loaded, the customer shall pay the f.o.r. 
destination rate plus the difference between the actual freight per ton and the 
amount of freight per ton which would have been Incurred if the wagon had 
been fully loaded. 

(c) Where the above Main and Secondary Producers sell a lot f.o.r. destination 
basis and the materials are sent at the customers’ request by a route or means 




4018 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1902/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II— 


of transport, other than the cheapest, the extra cost shall be borne by the 
customer, 

(d) For deliveries by Rail in 'smalls’ sales shall be made f.o.r. despatching 
station i.e., the base prices shown in Col. I and materials will be despatched 
‘freight to pay’. In such cases, the actual freight shall be borne by the buyer. 

B- — Special Conditions for Sales by Registered Producers (other than the 

Main Producers and Messrs. Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd., and 

Tinplate Co. of India Ltd.) and Controlled Sources (other than 
controlled Scrap Merchants). 

1. Sales and despatches by the Registered Producers (other than the Main 
Producers and Messrs. Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd., Tinplate Co. of India 

Ltd.) and Controlled sources (other than Controlled Scrap Merchants) shall be 

made f.o.r. Seller’s siding or f.o.r. despatching station, as the case may be, at 
Col. I Price. Actual freight: from the despatching station, to the destination 
station shall also be borne by the consignee. 

C — Special Conditions for sales by the Controlled Scrap Merchants. 

1. The rates shown in Col. II of Parts LA & III will apply to all sales by 
Controlled Scrap Merchants. 

2. All sales by Controlled Scrap Merchants are ex-their yards or f.o.r. their 
siding. No extra charges are admissible when delivery is made ex-yard or f.o.r. 
their siding, or into workshops adjoining to the Controlled Scrap Merchants’ yard. 
For such sales, the charges incurred for loading defectives or scrap In the Wagons 
or Lorries shall be borne by the Controlled Scrap Merchants. Where delivery is 
undertaken by the Controlled Scrap Merchants at the request of the buyer, the 
delivery charges shall not except by special arrangements between the Controlled 
Scrap Merchants and the buyer, exceed the following rates: — 

Rate per M/ton 
Rs. nP. 


Calcutta . . 9.84 

Bombay . , 9.84 

Madras . . 8.40 

Delhi (Old and New) , . 5.66 

Kanpur . . 7,87 

Jullundur . . 3.94 

Nagpur . . 4.92 

Vizianagram . . 2.95 

Cuttack . . 6.89 

Ambala . . 4.92 


D— Special conditions for sales by all persons other than Main Producers, 
Registered Producers (other than Main Producers), Controlled sources 
and Controlled Scrap Merchants. 

1. The base rates given in Col. Ill of Parts I-A & III will apply ex-yard. 

A. N. Banerji, 

Iron and Steel Controller”. 


[No. SC(C)-2(26)/62-Vol,III.J 
C. A. NAIR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF MINES AND FUEL 

New Delhi, the 27 th November 1962 

S.O. 3684. — The Central Government hereby appoints Shri G, K. Mishra, Addi- 
tional District and Sessions Judge, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, as Tribunal for the pur- 
pose of determining the amount of compensation that may be payable under the 
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957. 


[No. C2-l(0)02.) 



Sec. S(ii)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8. 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 


4019 


S.O. 8685. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the (late 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) Department of Mines and Fuel S.O. 133, dated 
the 11th January, 1961, under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Coal Beai-ing 
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Govern- 
ment gave notice of its intention to acquire the lands in the locality specified in 
the Schedules appended to that Notification; 

And whereas the competent authority in pursuance of Section 8 of the said 
Act has made his report to the Central Government; 

And whereas the Central Government after considering the report and after 
consulting the Government of Bihar is satisfied that — 

(a) the lands measuring 960-57 acres or 389'93 hectares described in Sche- 

dule A appended hereto; and 

(b) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 

carry away minerals in the lands measuring 2831 54 acres or 1146-77 
hectares described in Schedule B appended hereto; 

should be acquired. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 9 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the land 
measuring 960-57 acres or 389-03 hectares described in the said Schedule A and 
the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win work and carry away 
minerals in the lands measuring 2831*54 acres or 1146-77 hectares described in 
the said Schedule B are hereby acquired. 

The plans of the areas covered by this Notification may be Inspected In the 
office of the Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribagh or in the office of the Coal Con- 
troller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal 
Development Corporation Ltd. (Revenue Section), Darbhanga House, Ranchi. 

BLOCK G (CHANO-RIKBA BLOCK) 

SCHEDUL A 

Drawing No. Rev, 166162, Dated 19 - 9 - 62 . 

(Showing lands acquired) 


‘All Rights’ 


Sub-Bloch 1 


SL 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

I 

Kura 

Mandu 

30 

Hazaribagh 

403 -02 acres 
or 

163-22 hectares 

Part 

2 

Rikba 

Mandu 

3i 

3) 

49-30 acres 
or 

19-97 hectares 

Part 

3 

Khapia 

>3 

29 

13 

508-25 acres 
or 

205 • 84 hectares 

Part 


Total : 960-57 acres (Approx,) 

or 

389-03 hectares (Approx .) 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Rikba : — 

i(P), 187 (F), 194 (F), 195 to 207 , 208 CP), 2 I 3 (P), 2I4(P)» 955(P)j »33 (F)j « nd i*39(F)- 
Plot Nos. acquired in villageKura : — 

428 (F), 445 (P), 448 (F), 449 (F), 905(F)) 9 I 2(P)) 9*3) 914) 9i5(P)> 9*6 to 920 , 921 (P)) 922 (P), 
23 (F). 924(P), 925 (F)) 926 to 931 , 932(P), 933(F)) 934. 935(P), 958(P), 9 7o(P), 9 71 to 973, 



4020 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, I 962 /AGRAHAYANA 17 , 1884 [Part II- 


974(F), i020(P), i02i(P), 1022 to 1024, I027(P), i028(P), 1029, io3o(P), 1031(F), 1032(F)* 
1033,1034, 1035 (P), 1036, 1037CP), io38(P), ic 39(P), 1040 to 1116, IU7(P), and 1122. 

Plot Nos. acquired in village Khapia : — 4(P), ao(P), 2l(P), 38(F), ja(P), 53(P), 56(P), 5?(P)> 
?8, 59(F), 6l(P), 64(P), 65(F), 66, 67, 68(P), 69(F), 70 to 72. 73(F), 74, 75(P), 76(P), 78(F), 79 to 
402, 403 (P), 404 to 409, 4io(P), 411 to 413, 414(F), 415 (P), 426CP), 427 to 431, 432(P), 433(F)* 
434(P), 449(P),454(P), 681, 682 and 683. 

BOUNDARY description 

1- 2 line passes thiough Plot Nos. 4 and 78 in village Khapia. 

2- 28-3-4 line passes thiough Plot Nos. 78, 403, 432, 433, 434, 426, 414, 415, 449, 410 & 
454 m village Khapia, through Plot Nos. 955, 1133,208, 1139, 213,214 and 187 in village Rikba. 

4-j line passes through Plot Nos. 187, 194 & 1 in village Rikba, through Plot Nos. 428, 
along the Western boundary of Plot Nos. 1089, 1040, through Plot Nob. 1039, 1038, 1037, 445, 
1035, 448 along the western boundary of Plot No. 1020 and through Plot Nos. 449 and 1021 in 
village Kura. 

J-6 line passes through Plot Nos. 1020, 1028, 1028, 1030, 1031, 1032, 974, 970, 933, 935, 
958, 932, 912, 915, 905, 922 and 921 in village Kura. 

6-1 line passes through Plot Nos. 922, 923, 925, 924, 1117 in villageKura, through Plot 
NOs. 20j 21, 52, 53, 57, 56, 38, 6l, J9, 64, 65, 68, 69, 73, 75, 76, and 4 in village Khapia. 

Schedule B 

Sub- lock 11 

Drawing No. Rtv/66/62 Dated 19-9-62. 

Mining Rights 


SI. 

No. 

Village 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks. 

I 

Cbano 

. Barkagaon 

I5J 

Hazaribagh 

661-74 acres 
or 

268 • 00 hectares 

Part 

2 

Luminga 

. Barkagaon 

150 

Haaaribagh 

81-42 acres 
or 

32-98 hectares. 

Part 

3 

Rikba 

. Mandu 

3i 

jj 

178-27 acres 
or 

72 -2o hectares 

Part 

A 

Kura 

* JJ 

30 

jj 

14 00 acres 
or 

5 • 67 hectares 

Fait 


Total 935'43 acres (Approx.) 

or 

378-85 hectares (Appro*,) 


Plot Nos. acquired in tillage Lurunga : — 

485(F), 486(P), 487(F), 903(P), 9 c 4(F)> 910(F) & 9n(P) 

Plot Nos. acquit ed in village Chanc : — 


4(P), 5, 6(P), 7 tof 3 9, 4o(P), 4i(P), j6(F), 57(F), 8o(P), 81, 82(F), 83(F), 84(F), 85(F), 86(P) 
87(F), 88(F), 89 to 159, l6o(P), 161(F), 162(F), 163 to 183, 184(F), I85 (P), i86(P), 193' ' 

228(F), 229 to 241, 242(F), 243(F), 244 10 247, 248 (P), 249(P), 232(F), 253, 254C 
2J6(P), 257(P), 258 to 260, 26i(F;, 262(F), 2f t(P), 264. 26; (Ph 266(P), 267 to 282, 283(F), 284 


285(P), 286 to 294, 295 (P), 296 to 299, 300(F), 301(F), 302(F). 
(P), 461(F), 464(F),5 585, 386 and 587. 


375(F), 434(F), 436(F), 437, 43ft 







Steo. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER C. 1962 /AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 402 1 


Plot Nos. acquired in tillage Rilla : — • 

l(P), 3(P). 4 to 19, 20(F), 22(F), 24, 25, 26(F), 29(F), 3o(P), 3i(P), 32, 39(P), 4o(P), 42, 43’ 
44(F), 46, 41, 48(F), 49 to J4, 55(F), 56(F) and io?(P). 

plot Nos. acquired in iMagtKura : — 

427(P), 42 8 (P) and 429. 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 

14- 15 line passes through Plot Nos . 56, 40, 41, 6, 4, in village Chano, 

And along the Western boundary of Plot Nos. 485, 486 in Lurunga. 

15- 16-17-18-19-10 line passes thicugh Plot Nos. 486, 497, 485 in village Lurunga, 

through Plot Nos. 160, 161, 162, in village Chano, 

through Plot Nos, 910, 911, 904, 903 In village Lurunga, 
through Plot Nos. 3, 20, 22, 1 in village Rikba, 
through Plot Nos. 428, 427 in village Kura. 

10- ii line passes through plot Ncs. 427, 428 in village Kura. 

« „ 1, 36, 29, 3, 31, 30, 39, 40, 44, common 

boundary of Plot Nos. 45 and 46, and 
through Plot No. 48 in village Rikba. 

11- 12-13 line pass** through Plot Nos. 48, 108, 3, j6, 55, in village Riba, 

„ Plot Nos. 184, 186, 185, 193, 224, 228, 242, 

295, 302, 301, 300 in village Chano. 

13-14 line passes through plot Nos. 300, 375, 434, 436, 438, 285, 284, 283, 461, 266, 265, 

263,262, 261,464,257,256,243,255,254, 
252, 248, 249, 88, 87, 86, 85, 84, 83, 82, 
80, 40, 57, and 36 In village Chano. 

Bub-Block-111 


Mining Rights. 


SI. Village 

No. 

Than a 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

1 Kura 

. Mandu 

30 

Hazaribagh 

I99 1 02 acres 
or 

8o-6o hectares. 

Part. 

2 [Rikba 

* » 

31 


117- 12 acres 
or 

47-43 hectares. 

Part 


Total 316-14 acres (Approx.) 

or 

128-03 hectares (Approx). 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Kura : — 

2I3(P), 214 to 268, 26g(P), 27 o(P), 272(P), 273 to 277, 278(F), 28 1 (P), 282(P), 283(P), 
284, 285, 286(F), 287 to 293, 294 (P), 295(P), 3o6(P), 3o8(P), 309, 31o(P), 311, 312, 313(F), 314, 
3I5(P), 34i(P). 34?(P)- 35b(P), 363(F), 364(P), 365(P), 368(P), 369(P), 37°(P), 372(F), 373(P)> 
374(F), 375, 376CP), 377, 37^(P), 379, 380, 38l(P), 382(P), 383, 384(F), 397(P), 398(P), 427(P ), 
4z8(P), 430 to 432, 433(F), 434 to 437, 43 s (P), 439 to 444, 445(F), 446, 447, 448 (P), 449(F), 

45°(P), 1021(F), 1035(F), 1037(F), 1038(F) and 1039(F). 

Plot Nos. acquired in vilage RMa : — 

i(P), 3(F), 26(F), 27, 28, 2 9 (P), 30(P), 3i(P), 33 to 38, 39(P), 40(F), 41, 44(F), 45(P), 48(P), 
H3(P), 114 125., I26(P), 127, 128, I29(P), 130. i3i(P), i32(P), 134(F), T39(P), I4°(P), I4L 

142, 143(P), 146(F), I47(P), 148 to 179, 180(F), 181, 182, 183, i 87(P), 188 to 193 and 194(F)' 








4022 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Past II— 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 


4-5iine pass n through Plot Nxx. 187,1941 
village Rikba 

}> 51 


5-7-8 line passes through Plot Nos. 

8- 9 line passes through Plot ' Nos. 

9- ro line passes through Plot Nos. 

Jl 

10- ii line passes through Plot Nos. 

>3 


11-4 line passes through Plot N03. 


Stib-Block- 


418, along the Western boundary 
of Plot Nos. 1089, 1040 through Plot 
Nos. 1039, 1038, 1037, 445, T035, 448 along 
the Western boundary of Plot No. 1020 
and through Plot Nos. 449, 1021 in village 
Kura. 

450, 2X3, 398, 278, 286, 283, 281, 282, 397, 
In village Kura. 

397, 398, 295, 294, 272, 270, 269, 306. 308, 
310, 313, 315, 356, 363, 364, 365, 438, 
433 in village Kura. 

433, 373. 37 2 ’ 37°. 374. 369. 368, 376, 378, 
438, 349. 341. 38U 382, 427, 384 in 

village Kura. 

427, 428 in village Kura. 

1, 26, 29, 3, 31, 39, 39, 4°. 44. along the 
common boundary of Plot Nos, 45 and 
46 and through Plot No. 48 in village 
Tikba. 

48. 45. IJ 3. 126, 134, 129. 132, 131. 139 
140. 143, 147, 146, along the common 

boundary of Plot Nos. 183 and 184 and 
through Plot No. 180 in village Rikba. 

■Ill A. 


Mining Rights. 


SI. 

No. 


Village Thana 

Thana District 

No. 

Area 

Remarks 

I 

Khapia 

. . Mandu 

29 Huxribigh 

245 '00 acres 
or 

99-23 hectares 

Part 

2 

Rikba 

‘ • >5 

31 

18 00 acres 
or 

7-29 hectares. 

Part 


Total . 263' 00 acres (Approx). 

or 

106,52 Hectares (Approx.) 

Plot Nos. aepuired irt village Rikba : — 

187 (P), 2 o3 (P), 209 to 212, 2T3(P), 2I4(P), H33(P), II39(P). and 955(P). 

Plot Nos. acquired in village Khapia : — 

78(P), 403®, 4io(P), 4t4(P). 4I5(P)> 4t6 to 425, 426®, 43z(P). 433®. 434(P). 435 to 448, 
449(P). 45° to 453, 454(P), 455 to 493, 500®, 50i(P), 505(P), 508®, 509®, 510®, 5H to 518, 
5i9(P)* 520 to 525, 3 26(P), 531 to 544, 545(P). 547(P)> 548(P), 550(F). 55i(P). 55 2 (P). 553®. 
563(P), 5S9(P). 6t9(P), 621 to 619, 63X?), 636(F), 637(F), 638 to 640, 641(F), 642 to 647, and 678®. 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 

3-28 line passes through Plot Nos. 187, 214, 1139, 213, 208, 1133, 955 in villageRikba, 
„ „ 454. 449. 4to, 415. 414. 426, 403, 434, 

433, 432, in village Khapia. 

28- 29 line passes through Plot Nos. 403, 78, 526, 678, 641, 637 in village Khapia. 

29- 25 line passes through Plot Nos. 637, 636, 630, 619 in village Khapia. 

25- 26 line passes through Plot Nos, 619. 569. 568, 545, 547, 548, 550, 553, 

552, 551 519. 5°8, 509, 510. 505, 500, 
501, 454, in village Khapig, 

26- 27 line pissrs along the Ct xtral line of Bxrki Nadi (River). 

27- 3 line pjssxs through PlotNxs. 955, 187 in village Rikba, 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 8, 1%?. 'AGRAHAYANA 17. 1884 4023 


Sub-Dlock-IV 


Mining Rights. 


SI. 

No. 

Villag- 

Thana 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

I 

Khapia 

. Mandu 

29 

Hazaribagh 

99 * 12 acres 
or 

40-14 hectares- 

Part 

2 

Rikba 

* 51 

31 


939 '75 acres 
or 

380-60 hectares. 

Part. 

3 

Lukuiya 

* )1 

32 


73 ■ 80 acres 
or 

29-89 hectares. 

Part 

4 

Chano 

. Barkagaon 

151 


204*30 acres 
or 

82 74 hectares. 

Part 


Total . 1316 97 acres (Approx.) 

or 

533 37 hectares (Approx.) 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Chano : — 


i84(P), 185®, i 86(P), 1S7 to 192, 193®, 194 to 223, 224©, 225 to 227, 228©, 242(F), 
395(P), 300 ®, 3or(P), 302(P), 303 to 310, 3ii(P), 3T2(P), 313 to 321, 322(P), 323, 324 (P), 365®. 
and 366(P). 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Rikba : — 

3©, 45(P), 48®, 55(P)> 56(P). 57 to 107,' io8(P), 109 to 112, 113®, i26(P), i29(P), i3i(P), 
132(F), 133, 134®, 135 to 138, 139©, 140©, 143©, I44> 145, 146©, I47(P), i8o(P), 184 to 


186,187©, 2x5 to 258, 259©, 267©, 268©, 269 to 303, 304©, 310©, 318©, 319©, 321©, 

“ ‘ ©, 386®, 393©> 400©, 4 j 8(P - 

4|6®> 437, 438, 439®, 


322©, 323©, 324 to 380, 381®, 382, 383©, 384®) 385' 

419©, 420®, 421©, 422®, 423(F), 424®, 425(F), 426©, 427®, 

44° to 452, 453©, 454 to 954, 955®, 956 to 1093, 1119®, 1120®, 1121 
1125®, 1126®, 1127©, 1x28®, 1129, 1130, 1132, 1134, 1135, 1136. 
1141. 


1X22, 1123, 1124®, 

1138, 1140® and 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Likuiya : — 

I, 2©, 3 to 6, 7©, 14©, 15©, i6(P), 17© and 20(P). 

Plot Nos. acquired in village Khapia : — 

454®, 500©, 501©, 502 to 504, 505®, 506, 507, 508©, 509®, 510®, 519®, 545®, 
346, 547®, 548©, 549®, 550©, 551©, 552®, 553®, 554 to 567, 568®, 569(F), 570 to 
387, 588®, 589, 590, 591©, 592, 593' 594®, 600®, 6x4®, 615 to 618, 619® and 684. 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 

13-12 line passes through Plot Nos. 300, 301, 302, 295, 242, 228, 224 in village Chano. 

12-11-4-3-27 line passes through Plot Nos. 224,193,185,186,184 in village Chano. 

through Plot Nos. 55, 56, 3, 108, 48, 45, 113, 126, 134, 
129, 132, 131, 139, 140, 143, t47, 140, 
187, along the common boundary of 
Plot Nos. 184 and 183 and through Plot 
Nos, 180, 955 in village Rikba. 

27-26 line passes along the Central line of Barki nadi (River). 

26-25 line . Passes through Plot Nos. 454,505,501,500,510,509,508,519,551, 

552, 553, 550, 548, 547, 545, 569, 568, 

619 in village Khapia. 

25-24 line passes through Plot Nos. 614, 588, 600, 591, 594, in village Khapia. 

24-23 line passes along the part village boundryof villages Rikba and Khapia. 

23-22 line passes through Plot Nos, 1140, 1128, 1127, 1126, 1125, 1124, 1121, 

1120, 1119 in village Rikba. 



4024 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II— 


22-21-20-13 line passes through Plot Nos. 1140, 418, 453, 439, 436, 427, 426, 425, 

424, 423, 422, 421, 420, 400, 419, 386,. 
385, 384. 393) 383, 3«L 3t8, 3x9., 323, 
322, 321, 310, 304, 268, 267, 187, 259, 
187, in village Rikba. 


through PlotJNos. 20, 17, 2, 16, 15, 14, 7 in village Lukuiya. 
through Plot Nos. 322, 324, 3IL 312, 3^5, 3665 300 in village- 
Chano. 


[No. C2-20(1)/62.J 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1982 

S.O. 8686.— Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministryi of Steel Mines and Fuel (Department of Mines and Fuel) 
No, S.R.O. 3810 dated the 23rd November, 1957 under section 9 of the Coal Bearing. 
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Govern- 
ment acquired 1085-38 acres of land in villages Kathara, Bandh, Mahaliband and 
Borrea, P. S. Gomia in the district of Hazaribagh and also acquired the right to- 
ntine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and carry away minerals In 
other lands measuring 460'26 acres in the said villages; 


And, whereas, Sarvashrl Khedu Gope, Damolia Gope and Balwa Gope of village- 
Jhirkl P. S. Gomia District, Hazaribagh, the interested parties in respect of the 
said amount of compensation payable for the acquisition of their lands under 
section 13 of the said Act; 

And, whereas, the amount of compensation payable under the said Act could 
not be paid due to a dispute as to the sufficiency of the amount of compensation 
and the title to receive it and also apportionment thereof. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the said Act the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal 
consisting of Shri R. P. Slnha, Additional Judical Commissioner, Ranchi, and refers 
(he dispute to the decision of the said Tribunal. 

[No. C2-20(27)/58 .] 


S.O. 8687. — Whereas by the notification of the Government Of India, in the 
(Late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) Department of Mines and Fuel S.O. 
No. 755 dated the 7th March, 1962 under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central 
Government gave notice of its intention to acquire the lands and rights in the 
locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification. 


And whereas no objection has been made to the acquisition of the lands and' 
rights aforesaid; 

And whereas the Central Government after consulting the Government of 
Orissa is satisfied that the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search tor, win, 
work and carry away minerals in the land measuring 4409 13 acres (1785-70 
hectares) described in the said Schedule and reproduced in the Schedule below 
should be acquired. 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the rights 
to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and carry away minerals in 
the lands measuring 4409-13 acres (1785-70 hectares) described in the Schedule 
below are hereby acquired. 

The plan of the area covered by this notification may be inspected hi the office - 
of the Collector, Dhenkanal (Orissa) or in the office of the Coal Controller, 1, 
Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal Development. 
Corporation Ltd. (Revenue Section), Darbhanga House, Ranchi. 




Sec. 3(H)] TflE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER P. 1902 AC.UAHAYANA 17, 1884 4025 . 


Schedule 

Drg. Nj. Rev, 5j/62. 
Date! 6-8-1962. 

Block-Nandira (West Balanda) 

‘Mining Right'. (Showing lauds where rights to mines, quarry 

bore, dig and search for, win, work arid 
carry away minerals are acqu red). 


SI. Name of village P.S. No. District Area Remarks 

No. 


I. 

Danra . 


. 



Colliery 

Dhenkanal 

Full. 

2. 

Kuchianali 





33 

33 

33 

3- 

Jambubahali 





15 

33 

33 

4 - 

Badajorda 





33 

3 3 

Part. 

5- 

Mahendrapur 


• 



33 

3 > 

)> 

6. 

Chintamanipur 





33 

33 

Full. 

7- 

Natidi 





33 

33 

Part. 


Total Area . 4409' 13 (Approx.) 

acres 

or 

1785-70 hectares 
(Approx.) 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Danra : — 

1 to 5511. 

Plot Nos. acqitired in village Kuckianali : — 1 to 272. 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Jambubahali : — I to 927. 

Plot Nos. acquired in village Badajorda : — 1, 2(P), 3(P), , . . 

50- 5i(P), 52, 53. 73(f), 74(f), 76(P), 77(f). J02(P), 1041. . 
2932, 2980(F), 3325(f), 3393. 34 2 4, 3429(f), 3430(f), 3434' 


13, 44(f), 

h W { 


45, 46, 47(P), 48,49,. 

(P), 1315(f), I3X6(P),„. 

3435, 1 1/3437, 3458* 

' ‘ ‘ Plot 


3459, 3462, 3468, 3470, 3473, 3530, 3531, Two un-numberod Plots surrounded by 
Nos. 1314, 3462 and part Eastern boundary of village Badajorda. 

Plot No. acquired in village Mahendrapur : — i(P). 


Plot Nos. acquired in village Chintamanipur : — 1 to 58. 

Plot Nos. acquired in village Natidi : — 1 to 267, 301 to 329, 431 to 483, J97 to 600, 6ol(PV, 
I/602, 461/603, 604(P), 6oi(P)/6o5. 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 

J-A-K line passes along the part Western boundary of village Natidi and 
Western boundary of village Danra, Kuchianali and again Danra and meeting at 
point ‘K\ 

K-L line passes along the North Western boundary of village ‘Danra’ and-, 
meeting at point ‘L’. 

L-M line passes along the Northern boundary of village ‘Danra, and meetlng- 
at point ‘M‘. 

M B C line passes along the. Eastern boundary of villages Danra Jambubaball. 
and part Eastern boundary of village Badajorda and meeting at point ‘C\ 

C-D line passes through two un-numbered plots surrounded by Plot Nos. 1314,. 
3462 and part Eastern boundary of village Badajorda, 1314, 1316, 1315, 104, 3325, 
3429, 2980, 3430, 51, 34.34, 73; 74; 47; 75; 77; 44; 102; 3 and 2 of village Badajorda. 
and meeting the point at ‘D’. 

*D-E 

E-F line passes through Plot No. 2 of village Badajorda and through Plot No. 1 
and along Northern boundary of Plot No. 417 of village Mahendrapur and meeting; 
the point at ‘F‘. 





4026 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


F-G line is the part common boundary of villages Badajorda and Natidl and 
meeting the point at ‘G’. 

G-H line passes along the Southern boundary of plot Nos. 267, 301, 329, 328, 
431 and 481 of village Natidl and meeting the point at ‘H’. 

D-E line is the part common boundary of villages Badajorda and Mahendrapur 
and meeting the point at ‘E’. 

H-I line passes along the Eastern boundary of plot Nos. 480, 479, 478 and 604 
-of village Natidl and meeting at point ‘I*. 

LJ line passes through Plot Nos. 604, 801 and 601/805 of village Natidl and 
meeting the point at ‘J’. 


[No. C2.21(2)/59,] 
P. S. KRISHNAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1962 

S.O. 3688. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (I) of article 299 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following instruments 
may be executed on his behalf by the Chairman, National Mineral Development 
•Corporation Ltd., namely: — 

“All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance, 
or carriage of materials, stores, machinery, etc., for the Kirlburu 
Iron Ore Project of the National Mineral Development Corporation 
Ltd. from Messrs Nissho Co. Ltd., Osaka, Japan", 


[No. F. 19(92)/62-MIV.f 


N. N. KASHYAP, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 26 th November 1962 

S.O. 3689. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
■of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following amendments to 
■the Central Potato Research Institute, (Class fU and IV posts) Recruitment Rules, 
1961, namely: — 

1, These rules may be called the Central Potato Research Institute (Class 

III and IV posts) Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Schedule to the Central Potato Research Institute (Class III and 

IV posts) Recruitment Rules, 1901 in Column 10 against Item 10 




Sic. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 , 1 962/ AGR AHA YANA 17, 1884 4027 


“Research Assistants” for the words “By direct recruitment” the 
following shall be substituted, namely; — 

“25% by promotion from Senior Scientific Assistants in the scale of 
Rs. 150 — 5 — 180—8—240 — EB — 8—280 — 10 — 300 with a minimum 
period of 5 years service and 76% by direct recruitment.” 

[No. 17-48/ 62-Instt.II.'J 

R. M. L. VAISH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1962 

S.O. 3690. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (6) of rule 2 of the- 
Indian Port Health Rules, 1955, and clause (9) of rule 2 of the Indian Aircraft (Pub- 
lic Health) Rules, 1954, the Central Government hereby makes the following fur- 
ther amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Health, published with S.O, No. 1524, dated the 26th June, 1901, namely:— 

In the said notification in the entries under heading “AFRICA”: 

(i) after “Bechuanaland” the entry “Burundi” shall be inserted, and 
(11) after “Portuguese Guinea”, the entry “Ruanda” shall be inserted. 

[No. F. 14-3/61-IH.I 


S.O. 3691. — T)ie following draft of certain rules further to amend the Indian 
Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954, published with the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Health, No. S.R.O. 2218, dated the 17th October, 
1958, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powera 
conferred by section 8A of the Aircraft Act, 1934 (22 of 1934), is hereby published, 
as required by section 14 of the said Act, for the information of the persons likely 
to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 10th March, 1903. Any objection or suggestion 
which may be received from any person with respect to the said draft before the? 
date so specified will be considered by the Central Government. 

Draft Rules 

1. These Rules may be called the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Amendment 
Rules, 1962. 

2. In rule 2 of the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954, in sub-rule (20). 
for the words “means a certificate conforming with the requirements and the model 
laid down in Schedules III, IV and V to these Rules," the following words shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“means a certificate which— 

(i) conforms to the requirements and the model laid down in Schedules III, 

IV and V to these Rules; 

(ii) is Issued only to individuals and cannot, in any circumstance, be used 

collectively; 

( iii) Is Issued, in the case of children, separately and is not incorporated in 

the mother’s certificate; 

(iv) is completed in English or in French; 

(v) is signed, in the case of an international certificate, by the parent or 
guardian of a child who is unable to sign or is authenticated, in the 
case of an illiterate person, by the mark of such person^ duly attested 
by another person to whom the illiterate person is personally known; 

(vi) is signed, in the case of an international certificate Issued in India, In his 
own hand by a qualified medical practitioner whose name is enrolled 
in the Indian Medical Register maintained under section 21 of the 
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956)." 

[No, F. 15-2/B2-IH.J 
BASHESHAR NATH, Under Secy. 




4 028 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, I962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part U- 


New Delhi , the 27th November 1862 

S.O. 3692. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the Pharmacy 
Act, 1948 (8 of 1948), the Pharmacy Council of India, with the approval of the 
-Central Government, hereby makes the following Regulations further to the Phar- 
macy Council of India Regulations, published with the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Health S.R.O. No, 1496 dated the 25th August, 
1952, in Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India dated the 30th August, 1952, 
namely: — 

1. These Regulations may be called the Pharmacy Council of India (Amend- 

ment) Regulations, 1962, 

2. In the Pharmacy Council of India Regulations, after rule 51, the following 

rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“51-A. A member of the Council elected as its representative to any other 
body shall be deemed to have vacated his seat if he ceases to be a 
member of the Pharmacy Council.” 

Devinder K. Jain, Asst, Secy. 

Pharmacy Council of India. 

[No. F. 7-00/62-D.] 
A. C. RAY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the nth November 1902 

S.O. 3693. — In pursuance of Para (a) of Section III of Rule 434 of Indian Tele- 
graph Rules, 1951, as introduced by S.O. No. 627, dated 8th March, 1900, the 
Director General Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 1st January, 1903, as 
the date on which the Measured Rate System will be introduced in Cuttack Tele- 
phone Exchange. 

[No. 31/5/02-PHB.] 
S. RAMA IYER, 

Asstt. Director General (PHB). 


(Deptts. of Comms. of Civil Aviation) 

ORDER. 

New Delhi, the 4th December, 1902. 

S.O. 3694. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 160, of the Indian 
Aircraft Rules, 1937, the Central Government hereby exempts for a further 
period of 8 months and 16 days with effect from 16th December, 1962, all holders 
of appropriate Aircraft Maintenance Engineers Licences granted or rendered 
valid by the app opriate authorities of the United Kingdom and Australia from 
the operation of rule 61 in so far as it relates to rules o7, 58 and 60, of the said 
rules and directs that the holders of such licences may act as Aircraft Main- 
tenance Engineers in connection with the repair, overhaul, modification and 
maintenance of aircraft owned! and operated by Air India. 

[No. F. 10-A/94-62.] 
S, N. KAUL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 29 th November 1962 

S.O. 3695.— Whereas by notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Scientific Research and Cultural Affaire No. F. 4-0/02-C.I, dated 17th August, 




Sec. S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER S. 1U62/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 4029 


1982 published In Part II Section 3, sub-section (11) of the Gazette of India dated 
the 25th August, 1962, the Central Government gave notice of its Intention to 
declare the archaeological monument specified in the Schedule below to be of 
national Importance; 

And, whereas, the objection received to the making of such declaration has 
been considered by the Central Government; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (24 
of 1958), the Central Government hereby declare the said archaeological monu- 
ment to be of national Importance. 




Schedule 


State 

District 

Sub- 

division 

Locality 

Name of monument 

Revenue plot numbers 
to be included under 
protection 

Area 

Boundaries 


Ownership 

Remarks 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 


9 

10 

West 

Bengal 

Burdwan 

Sadar 

Deulia 

Jain brick temple 
known as Sat-Deal 
together with adia- 
cent land comprised 
in survey plot No. 
3I34> 3135; 3151, 
3I54J 3 i 5 Sj 3I56 3 

3156/3744 and 3157- 

Whole of Survey plot 
Nos. 3134, 3135, 

3151. 3I54> 3155, 

3156, 3156/3744 

and 3157- 

4‘I4 

acres. 

North: Survey 
Nos. 3133, 
and 3165. 

East : Survey 
No. 3165. 

South'. Survey 
No. 3163. 
West : Survey 
Nos. 3136, 

Plot 

3I37> 

Plot 

Plot 

Plot 

3146, 

Private Not in reli- 

gious use. 


3147, 3150, 3152, 
3153, 3158 and 

3159- 


LNo. F. 4-6/62-CJ.] 
S. J. NAKSIAN, 
Assistant Educational Adviser . 


4030 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17 , 1884 [Part II— 




Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 , 1962/ AGRAHAYA N A 17, 1884 4031 


ministry of education 

New Delhi , the 2 9th November 1962 
In the matter of the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 

AND 

In the matter of the National Foundation for Teachers’ "Welfare 

S.O. 3696. — In partial modification of this Ministry's Notification No. F. 17-90/ 
61-A.3 dated the 25th June, 1962, Shri K. R. Ramachandaran, Deputy Secretary 
in the Ministry of Education has been appointed as Secretary-Treasurer of the 
Foundation with immediate effect in place of Shrl B. N. Malhan, Deputy Secretary. 

[No. F. 17-90/61-A.3.I 
C. L. DHINGRA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4 th December, 1962 

S.O. 3697.. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section 
(2) of section 5 of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, read with sub- 
section (3) of section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government appoints Shri 
V. T. Dehejia, Secretary, Ministry of Finance (Departments of Revenue and 
Expenditure), Government of India as Member of the University Grants Com- 
mission vice Shri S. Bhoothalingam who has resigned and the resignation accept- 
ed by the Central Government with effect from 27th November, 1962. 

[No. F. 24-45/ 62-U.5.] 

P. N. KIRPAL, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 30th November 1962 

S.O. 3698. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act 1958 (32 of 1958), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India In the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply No. S.O. 307 
dated the 28th January, 1959 as amended by Notification No. S.O. 2516 dated the 
3rd November, 1959 namely: — 

In the table below the said notification for the entry in column 1 against Serial 
No. 4, the following shall be substituted, namely: — - 

“Director of Estates, Additional Director of Estates and Deputy Directors of 
Estates, Government of India, New Delhi”, 

[No. 24/1/62-EE.II.] 

S.O. 3699.— In pursuance of clause (b) of Section 2 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1952), and in partial modifica- 
tion of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Works, 
Production and Supply No. S.R.O. 151 dated the 28th January, 1952, the Central 
Government hereby authorises the officer mentioned in column 1 of the subjoined 
Table to perform the functions of the Competent Authority under the said Act for 
the areas specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table. 

The Table 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

Officer Areas 


The Additional Director The whole of the Union territory of Delhi 

of Estates, New Delhi. and the area within the jurisdiction of 

the Municipality at Simla. 


[No. E.E. II (2)/ 59.1 
C. P. GUPTA, Joint Secy. 



4032 ™ Z GAZETTE OF INDIA; DECEMBER 8, 1 962 / AGRAHA YANA 17 , 1884 [Part II- 


(Department of W. & H.) 

New Delhi, the 29 th November 1902 

S.O. 3700, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 ( 32 of 1958), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendment to the notification 
of the Government of India In the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply No. 

S.O. 1792 dated the 10th August, 1959, namely; — 

In the table below the said notification, for the entry in column 2 against 
Serial No. 4, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Premises pertaining to the port of Kandla and belonging to the Central 
Government within the limits of the said port and Gandhidham”. 

[No. 24(l)/62-EEII.] 
S. L. VASUDEVA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

New Delhi, the 2 9th November 1962 

S.O. 3791. — -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire the evacuee properties in the State of U.P. specified in the Schedule 
below for a public purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and 
rehabilitation of displaced persons including payment of compensation to such 
persons. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), It Is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire and hereby acquires 
the said evacuee properties (Specified In the schedule). 

Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Particulars of pro- 
perty ' 

Name of the locality/town in 
which* E. IV situated. 

Name of the evacuee 

I 

2 

3 

4 

T 

House No, B6/2S8 

Mohalla Madhupura, Aligarh . 

Sri Ahmad Ali Khan. 

2 

House No. C4/87- 

Mohalla Nai Basti, Aligarh. 

Sri Ishrat Ali Khan. 

3 

88. 

Property No. G2 / 

Mohalla Sabzi Mandi, Distt. 

Sri Mohd. Mashkoor Ali Khan & 


126 to 132. 

Aligarh. 

brothers. 

4 

House No. 2614 & 

Mohalla Khatikhana, Hathras, 

Sri Abdul Rauf. 


2615. 

Distt, Aligarh, 


5 

House No. 2617 

Do. 

Do. 

6 

House No. 2616 . 

Do. 

Do. 

7 

House No. 261S . 

Do. 

Do. 

8 

House No. 2619 . 

Do. 

Do. 

9 

House No. 2620 . 

Do. 

Do. 

10 

House No. 2621 . 

Do. 

Do. 

11 

House No. 2622 . 

Do. 

Do. 

12 

House No. 2623 to 

Do. 

Do. 


2625 



13 

House No. 2626 ■ 

Do. 

Do. 

14 

House No. 2627 . 

Do. 

Do. 

15 

House No. 2628 to 

Do. 

Do. 


2630 


[No. 1 (1217) /Comp.III/PropJ]' 
M. J. SRTVASTAVA, 

Settlement Commissioner & Ex-Officio 

Under Secy. 



Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/ AGRAHAV ANA 17, 1884 4033 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1962 

S.O. 3792.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 3 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1964 (No, 44 of 
1954) the Centra) Government hereby appoints Shrl B. N. Shukia as Assistant Set- 
tlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such offi- 
cers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No. 8/249 /ARG/ 62.] 

S.O. 3793s — In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (a) of Sub-section (2) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 
1954 (No. 44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints for the union terri- 
tory of Delhi, Shri N. P. Nigam, Managing Officer in the office of the Regional Settle- 
ment Commissioner, Delhi as Managing Officer for the custody, management and 
disposal of Compensation Pool with effect from the date he took over charge of 
his office, 

[No. 4(55) Admn(Prop) / 68 /ARG.] 

S.O. 3704. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (a) of sub-section (2) 
of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 
1954 (No. 44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints for the union terri- 
tory of Delhi, Shri D. D. Banga, Assistant Settlement Officer in the office of the Re- 
gional Settlement Commissioner, Delhi, as Managing Officer for the custody, 
management and disposal of Compensation Pool with effect from the date he took 
over charge of his office. 

[No. 8/242/ARG/62.] 


New Delhi, the 28 th November 1962 

8.0. 3705. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (a) of sub-section (2) 
of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1054 
(No, 44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints for the union territory of 
Delhi, Shri Satish Chander Bhatnagar, Assistant Settlement Officer in the office 
of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, New Delhi as Managing Officer for 
the custody, management and disposal of Compensation Pool with effect from the 
date he took over charge of his office. 

[No. 8/29/AR(Per)CSC/61.] 
New Delhi, the 3rd December 1962 

5.0. 3799.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (No. 44 of 
1954) the Central Government herebv appoints Shri S. S. Mane as Assistant Settle- 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers 
by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No. 8/250/ ARG/G2.] 
KANWAR BAHADUR, Settlement Commissioner, 
(A) & Ex. Officio Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 30th November 1962 

S.O. 3707. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 
9 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints the following persons as members of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect from the dates shown 
against them: 

Smt, Kamala Damodaran, 9th November, 1962. 

Shri S. N. Chamakur, 17th October, 1962. 


[No. 11/4/62-FC,] 




4034 1111 GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAHAYAnA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


5.0. 3708.— In exercise of powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 
9 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints Shri B. K. Sarvotham Rao as a member 
of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect fropn 9th November, 
1962. 

[No. 11/4/62-FC.] 

8.0. 3709, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 
9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following persons, after consultation with the Central Board of Film 
Censors, as members of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with 
immediate effect : 

(1) Dr. K. M. George. 

(2) Smt. Soundra Kallasm. 

[No. 11/4/02-FC.] 
S, PADMANABITAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 28 th November 1962 

S.O. 3710. — Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees of 
the factory known as the Telephone Repalrshop, Madras, belonging to the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Posts and Tele- 
graph s Department, are otherwise In receipt of benefits substantially similar or 
superior to the benefits provided under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948); 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Emplo- 
yees’ State Insurance Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby exempts the said 
factory from all the provisions of the said Act. 

[F. No. 6(48)/62-HI.] 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th November 1962 

S.O. 3711. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), read with rule 3 of the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl 
N. N. Chatterjee, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Labour 
and Employment, as the Chairman of the Advisory Committee constituted by the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
No. S.O. 380, dated the 9th February 1901, vice Secretary to the Government of 
India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, and makes the following further 
amendment In the said notification, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entries against serial No. 1, for the words “The 
Secretary’’ the words “Shri N. N. Chatterjee, Joint Secretary” shall be substituted. 

[No. 2/3/62-MII.] 


New Delhi, the 3rd December 1962 

S.O. 3712. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 83 
of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. G.S.R. 975 dated the 11th August I960, 
namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, in the entries under column 1 against 
serial No. 0, for the words "trolley men and trammers” the words “trolleymen, 
trammers, lamp checkers and contraband/body searchers" shall be Inserted. 

![No. F. 6/ 11 /62-MI/ Am (8).] 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 



Sec. 8(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1962/AGRAIlAYANA 17, 1384 4635 


New Delhi, the 30th November, 1902 

5.0. 37 IS. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, No. S.O. 1805, dated the 4th June, 1962, the 
Central Government being satisfied that the public interests so required, had 
declared the industry for the supply of milk under the Delhi Milk Scheme to be 
a public utility service for the purposes of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
gf 1947), for a further period of six months from the 22nd June, 1962; 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the 8aid Act, for a further period of six months 
from the 22nd December, 1902. 

[No. F. 1/99/62-LR. I.] 

8.0. 3714. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Digwadih Colliery and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under Section 10(1 )(d) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) 

Reference No. 65 of 1961 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Digwadih Colliery — The Management of Tata 
Iron and Steel Co., Ltd., Jamadoba, P.O. Jealgora, Dist, Dhanbad, 

AND 

Their Workman, Shri Ganesh Mahato, Ex-Miner of Digwadih Colliery 
P.O. Jealgora, Dist. Dhanbad. 

Present: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A., B.L ., — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

For the Employers .— Shri G. Prasad, Chief Personnel Officer, with Shri 
S. N. Singh, Welfare Officer. 

For the Workman— Shri Ram Mitra, Secretary, Bihar Koyla Mazdoor 
Sabha. 

Dhanbad, dated the 19th November, 1962 
State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


AWARD 

1. The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by its 
Order No. 2/168/61-LRU, dated the 10th August, 1961, referred under Section 
10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the following item 
of Dispute to the Tribunal for its adjudication: 

Schedule 

"whether the dismissal of Shri Ganesh Mahato by the management 
of Digwadih Colliery was Justified and if not, to what relief he is 
entitled?” 

2. The Workman, represented by the Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha, filed his 
written statement on 28th August, 1961, and, the Management also filed its 
written statement on 23rd September, 1961. 

3. On 26th October, 1962, the management filed a petition, signed by its Chief 
Mining Engineer, stating that the case of the workman, Shri Ganesh Mahato, has 




4636 gazette of iNbiA: December a, I^/agRahayAnA if, 1884 tt* ART u- 


been re-considered by the management and he has been allowed to resume his 
duty from 21st October, 1962, and, therefore, the management prayed for per- 
mission to withdraw. 

4. To-day, the management has filed another petition, signed by its Chief Per- 
sonnel Officer, in continuation of its petition dated 26th October, 1962, that the 
management will pay full back wages to Shri Ganesh Mahato, the workman, 
from the date of his dismissal to the date of his reinstatement after deducting 
therefrom the total amount paid to the workman as subsistence allowance under 
the order of the Supreme Court. 

6. Shri Ram Mitra, Secretary Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha, representing the 
workman, Shri Ganesh Mahato, has no objection to the reference being disposed 
of in terms of the aforesaid two petitions of the management and on the terms 
mentioned therein. : i 

6. Consequently, as agreed between the parties, this reference is disposed of 
in terms of the aforesaid two petitions of the management and the dismissal of 
Shri Ganesh Mahato, the workman, is set aside and he is re-instated with effect 
from 21st October, 1962, and the management shall pay the workman, Shri Ganesh 
Mahato, full back wages from 24th November, 1960, the date of his dismissal, to 
21st October, 1962, the date of his re-instatement, after deducting the total sub- 
sistence allowance, which the workman got under orders of the Supreme Court 
from the management. 

7. The two petitions dated 26th October, 1962, and 19th November, 1962, filed 
by the Management, are marked Annexure “A” and Anriexure “B”, and, made 
parts of this Award. 

8. I, accordingly make this award and submit it to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Act 


Sd./- Raj Kishore Prasad, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

Dated, Dhanbad, 

The 19 th November, 1962. 


Annexure — “A” 

BEFORE THE CHAIRMAN HON’BLE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT’S INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

Ref: No. 65 of 1961 

Employers In relation to M/s. Tata Iron end Steel Co. Ltd., Jamadoba, 
P.O. Jealgora, Dlst. Dhanbad (Bihar) 

AND 

Their workman Sri Ganesh Mahato, Miner, Digwadih colliery, P.O. Jeal- 
gora, Dist. Dhanbad (Bihar). 

The Management above named beg to submit as follow; 

That the case of Sri Ganesh Mahato has been re-considered by the Manage- 
ment and he has been allowed to .resume his duty from 21st October, 1902. 

It Is therefore, prayed that the above mentioned reference may kindly be 
permitted to withdraw. 


Sd, /- Illegible, 

26-10-62. 

Chief Mining Engineer, 

The Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., 
Jamadoba, 

Jealgora P.O. 

Dhanbad District 



Sec. 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 , 1062/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 4037 

Annexure — “B” 

BEFORE THE CHAIRMAN HON’BLE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT’S INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

Ref; No. 65 op 1961 

Employers in relation to M/s. Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Jamadoba, 
P.O. Jealgora, Dist. Dhanbad (Bihar). 

AND 

Their workman, Sri Ganesh Mahato, Miner, Digwadih colliery, P.O. Jeal- 
gora, Dist. Dhanbad (Bihar). 

Further to their application dated 26th October, 1962, on the above matter, 
the employers above mentioned submit that Sri Ganesh Mahato will be paid full 
back wages from the date of his dismissal to the date of re-instatement setting 
off against this the total amount paid to him under the orders of the Supreme 
Court as subsistence allowance, 

Sd ./- Illegible 
19-11-1962. 

Chief Personnel Officer, 

The Tata Iron and Steel Co., Ltd., 

Jamadoba, 

P.O. Jealgora, 

Dist, Dhanbad. 

Dated, the 19th of November, 1902, 

[No. 2/15B/61-LRII.] 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1962 

8 . 0 . 3715 .— The following Order of the Industrial Tribunal. Andhra Pradesh, 
Hyderabad, correcting an error in its Award published with the Government of 
India. Ministry of Labour and Employment notification No. S.O. 2923, dated the 
17th September, 1962, Is reproduced below for general information: — 

Under Rule 28 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, the following 
correction is issued to the award passed by me in Industrial Dispute No. 15 of 
1961. 

CORRECTION 

“The date at the end of the last sentence of fifth oaragraph, on page 0, may 
be read as ‘ 8 th August, I960’ instead of ‘ 8 th August, 1661’.” 

(Sd.) M, S. Ali Khan. Industrial Tribunal, 
Hyderabad. 

[No. 2/1 86/61-LRII.] 

5.0. 3710,— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes A ft, 1647 
(14 of 16471, the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 33 A 
of the said Act from Shri fiukdeo, and 44 others C 1 o General Secretary, Bihar Coal 
Miners’ Union, Digwadih, P.O. Jealgora, District Dhanbad. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of an eoplicatioo under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), in the matter of Reference No. 27 of I960. 

Complaint No. 112 op 1960 

Parties : 

Shr! Sukd»o & 44 others, C/o. General -Secretary, Bihar Coal Miners’ Union, 
Digwadih, P.O. Jealgora, Dist, Dhanbad'.— Complainants. 

Versus 

Chief Mining Engineer, M/s, East Indian Coal Co., P.O. Jealgora, Dist. Dhan- 
bad. — Opposite Party. 



4038 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8 , 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


Present : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A., B.L ., — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Complainants :- — Shrl Pritish Chanda, President, Bihar Coal Miners’ 

Union, Digwadih, P.O. Jealgora, Dist. Dhanbad, 

For the Opposite Party : — Shri J. K, Ghosh, Advocate, M/s. Orr Dignam & Co. Soli- 
citors, with (i) Shri B. P. Srivastav, Personnel Officer, 
Jardine Henderson Ltd. Mg. Agents, East Indian Coal 
Co. Ltd.; (ii) Shri S. B. Das Gul5fa, Group Personnel 
Officer, East Indian Coal Co. Ltd.; and, (iii) Shri J. N. 
Sahl Group Labour Officer, East Indian Coal Co., Ltd., 

Dhanbad, dated the 23rd November, 1062 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


AWARD 

1. This is a Complaint, under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), by Sukdeo and 44 others, Machine-cut-Coal loaders, in 7 Pit of the 
Bararee Colliery belonging to the East Indian Coal Co., against reduction of their 
rate of wages with effect from the week ending 26th November, 1960, from Rs. 
2.25 nP. to Ra. 1.56 nP. per tub during the pendency of Reference No. 27 of 1960 
before this Tribunal, which they alleged to be in contravention of the Proviso to 
Sec, 33(2) (b) of the Act. 

2. The Company filed its rejoinder on 27th February, 1961, wherein certain 
preliminary objections were taken to the maintainability of this Complaint. 

3. The preliminary objections, at the reauest of the parties, were decided by 
me on 29th September. 1962, but the third objection “that the Complainants were 
not workmen concerned in the dispute” pending in 'Reference No. 27 of 1960 within 
the meaning of Section 33(2) of the Act, which went to the root of the Complaint, 
was left undecided to be decided later along with the merits of the complaint, as 
agreed between the parties. 

4. To-day, Shri J. K. Ghosh, Advocate, appearing for the Management, filed a 
petition to the effect that “the Company does not press its objection described as 
the ‘third objection’ in the Tribunal’s Order dated 29th September, 1962”, and, 
that, "the Company, therefore, does not pray for any decision on the aforesaid 
objection”. 

5. In view of the aforesaid petition of the management its third objection, stated 
above, is rejected as not pressed, and, I do not express afty opinion on the same. 

6. Shri P. Chanda, representing the above 45 Complainants, has also filed a 
petition to-day to the effect that ; 

“The Applicants humbly submit that in view of the National Emergency that 
is existing to-day and keeping in line with the decision of Industrial 
Truce in these days of ~ National Emergency, the Applicants deem it 
proper not to press the Complaint any longer and to withdraw the 
Complaint herein, without prejudice to the merit of what has been 
stated in the Complaint.” 

7. In view of the above petition, the Complaint, which is not pressed, is allowed 
to be withdrawn in terms of the said petition, which is marked Annexure “A” and 
made a part of this award. 

8. I make the award, accordingly, arid submit it to the Government under 
Section 15 of the Act. 


Sd./- Raj Kishore Prasad, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dated, the 23rd November, 1062. Dhanbad, 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8 , 1962/ AGR AHA VAN A 17, 1884 4039 


Annexuhe "A" 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

In the matter of Application No. 112 of I960 under Section 33A of the I.D. 
Act, 1947 (Arising out of Ref. No, 27 CSf 1960). 


Between : 

Shrl Sukdeo & Others — Applicants. 

Versus 

East Indian Coal Co. Ltd,, Jealgora, Dhanbad- — Opp, Party. 

The Applicants humbly submit that in view of the National Emergency that is 
existing to-day and keeping in line with the decision of the Tripartite Labour body 
to maintain the Industrial Trace in these days of National Emergency, the Appli- 
cants deem it proper not to press the Complaint any longer and to withdraw the 
Complaint herein, without prejudice to the merit of what has been stated in the 
Complaint. 

It is, therefore, prayed that the Hon’ble Tribunal may be pleased to allow the 
Applicants to withdraw the Complaint In the above line. 

Sd.7- Pmxtsii Chanda, 

President, 

Bihar Coal Miners’ Union, Authorised by the Applicants. 
Dated, the 23 rd November, 1962. 

[No. 8/32/62-LRII.) 


S.O. 3711.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Deodhari and 10 others C/o General Secretary, Bihar 
Coal Miners’ Union, District Dhanbad. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD. 


In the matter of an application under Section 33-A, of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947, (14 of 47), in the matter of Reference No. 27 of 
1960. 


Complaint No. 109 of 1960 


Parties: 

Shri Deodhari and 10 others, C/o. General Secretary, Bihar Coal Miners’ 
Union, Dist. Dhanbad. — Complainants. 

Versus 

Chief Mining Engineer, M/s. East Indian Coal Co„ P.O. Jealgora, Dist. 
Dhanbad. — Opposite Party. 


Bihar Coal Miners’ 


Present: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A., B.L ., — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

For the Complainants.— Shri Pritish Chanda, President, 

Union, Digwadth, P.O. Jealgora, DiBt. Dhanbad, 

For the Opposite Party.— Shri J. K. Ghosh, Advocate, M/s. Orr Dignam 
and Co. Solicitors, with (i) Shri B. P. Srivastav, Personnel Officer, 
Jardine Henderson Ltd,, Mg. Agents, East Indian Coal Co. Ltd.; 
(ii) Shri S. B. Das Gupta, Group Personnel Officer, East Indian 
Coal Co., Ltd.; and, (iii) Shri J. N. Sahi, Group Labour Officer, East 
Indian Coal Co, Ltd. 


Dhanbad, dated the 23rd November, 1962 


State: Bihar. 


Industry : Coal, 



4040 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 8, 1 962/ AGRAHA YANA 17, 1884 [Part II- 


AWARD 

1. This is a Complaint, under Section 33-A, of the Industrial Disputes Act,. 
1947 (14 of 1947), by Deodhari and ten others, Machine-cut- Coal loaders, in 7 
Pits of the Bararee Colliery belonging to the East Indian Coal Co., against reduc- 
tion of their rate of wages with effect from the week ending 26th November, 
I960, from Rs, 2.50 nP. to Rs. 1.56 nP. per tub during the pendency of Refer- 
ence No. 27 of 1960 before this Tribunal, which they alleged to be in contraven- 
tion of the Proviso to Sec. 33(2) (b) of the Act. 

2. The Company filed its rejoinder on 27th February, 1961, wherein certain 
preliminary objections were taken to the maintainability of this Complaint. 

3. The preliminary objections, at the request of the parties, were decided by 
me on 29th September, 1962, but the third objection “that the Complainants 
were not workmen concerned in the dispute” pending in Reference No. 27| of 
1960 within the meaning of Section 33(2) of the Act, which went to the root of 
the Complaint, was left undecided to be decided later along with the merits of 
the complaint, as argeed between the parties. 

4. To-day, Shri J. K. Ghosh, Advocate, appearing for the Management, filed 
a petition to the effect that “the Company does not press its objection described 
as the “third objection” in the Tribunal’s Order dated 29th September, 1962”, 
and, that, “the Company, therefore, does not pray for any decision on the afore- 
said objection.” 

6. In view of the aforesaid petition of the management its third objection, 
stated above, is rejected as not pressed, and, I do not express any opinion on the 
same. 

6. Shri P. Chanda, representing the above eleven Complainants, has also filed 
a petition to-day to the effect that: 

“The Applicants humbly submit that in view of the National Emergency 
that Is existing to-day and keeping in line with the decision of the 
Tripartite Labour body to maintain the Industrial Truce lh these 
days of National Emergency, the Applicants deem it proper not to 
press the Complaint any longer and to withdraw the Complaint 
herein, without prejudice to the merit of what has been stated in 
the Complaint.” 

7. In view of the above petition, the Complaint, which is not pressed, ia 
allowed to be withdrawn in terms of the said petition, which is marked Annexure 
“A” and made a part of this award, 

8. I make the award, accordingly, and submit it to the Government under 
Section 16 of the Act. 


Sd./- Raj Kishore Prasad, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

Dhanbad, Dated, 

The 23 rd November, 1062, 

Annexure “A” 

BEORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

In the matter of Application No. 109 of 1960, Under Section 33 A, of the 
I.D. Act, 1947, (Arising out of Ref. No. 27 of 1960). 

Between: 

Shri Deodhari and 10 Others. — Applicants, 

Versus 

East Indian Coal Co., Ltd., Jealgora, Dhanbad, — Opp. Party, 

The Applicants humbly submit that in view of the National Emergency that la 
existing to-day and keeping in line with the decision of the Tripartite Labour 
body to maintain the Industrial Truce in these days of National Emergency, the 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 8, 1 962 ! A( 7 fc>til A YAN A 17. 1884 4041 


Applicants deem it proper not to press the Complaint any longer and to with- 
draw the Complaint herein, without prejudice to the merit of what has been 
stated in the Complaint. 

It is, therefore, prayed that the Hon’ble Tribunal may be pleased to allow 
the Applicants to withdraw the Complaint in the above line. 

Sd./- British Chanda, 
President, 

Bihar Coal Miners’ Union, 
Authorised by the Applicants. 

Dated, the 23rd November, 1962. 

[No. 8/32/62-URIT.I 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th. November 1962 

8.0. 3718. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the West Bokaro Colliery, 
Post Office Ghatotand, District Hazaribagh, Bihar and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE! 

Whether the action of the management of the West Bokaro Colliery, Post 
Office Ghatotand, District Hazaribagh, in dismissing Shri Gurudas 
Ram, a Ropeway Fitter of the Colliery, is justified keeping in view 
of the nature and extent of acts or omissions committed by Shri 
Gurudas Ram on 14th November 1961? If not. to what relief is the 
workman entitled? 

[No. 2/107/02-LRII.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1902 

S.O. 3719.— Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Dharsi Moolil, Bombay 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto- 
annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1647 (14 of 1947) the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(1) How far the demand of workmen for increase in wages is justified?' 

(2) How far the demand of workmen for payment of bonus for the account- 

ing years 1960-01 and 1961-62 Is justified? 


[No. 28/79/62-LRIV.} 
G. JAGANNATHAN, Under Secy. 




4042 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA; DEC. 8, 1962/AGRAHAYANA 17, 1 384 [Part IT-Sec. 3(H)] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1962 

8 . 0 . 3720 . — In the preamble to the notification of Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 3552, dated the 20th November 1962, 
appearing at page 3879 in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(11), dated the 
24th November 1962 for “10th November, 1962“ read “16th November, I960”. 

[No. LWI-I-3 (45) / 00.] 

K. D. HAJELA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1962 


