nf Inbia 


‘She ©azette 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SIMLA, SATURDAY, MARCH 26, I960 (CHAITRA 6, 1882) 



Separate paring is given to this Fart In order that It may be filed as a separate compilation 


PART III— SECTION 4 

Miscellaneous Notifications including Notifications, Orders, 
Advertisements and Notices issued by Statutory Bodies 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 
Bombay, the 12 th March 1960 

No. 15 — In exercise of the powers conferred on them by 
Regulation 18 of the Reserve Bank of India General Regu- 
lations, 1949, the Central Board of the Bank have autho- 
rised the following amendments to the Reserve Bank of 
India Notification No. 21, dated 4th November 1949 : — 

(i) In sub-paragraph I — 

(a) for the words “the Chief 'Officer, Deputy Chief 
Officers and Assistant Chief Officers in the Depart- 
ment of Banking Development and Industrial 
Finance Department”, substitute the words “the 
Chief Officer, Deputy Chief Officers, Assistant Chief 
Officers and Administrative Officer in the Depart- 
ment of Banking Development and in the Indus- 
trial Finance Department”. 

(b) for the words “Officer-in-Charge, Legal Division, 
substitute the words ‘"Legal Adviser, Assistant 
Legal Adviser and Legal Officer, i n the Legal 
Department”. 

(ii) In sub-paragraph II, for the words “Deputy Directors 
and Research Officers in the Economic Department and the 
Department of Statistics; Rural Credit Officers in the Agri- 
cultural Credit Department; Banking Officers in the Depart- 
ment of Banking Operations and Department of Banking 
Development and Industrial Finance Officers in the Indus- 
trial Finance Department”, substitute the words “Deputy 
Directors and Research Officers in the Economic Depart- 
ment and Department of Statistics; Rural Credit Officers 
in the Agricultural Credit Department; Banking Officers in 
the Department of Banking Operations and Department of 
Banking Development; Industrial Finance Officers in the 
Industrial Finance Department; 

Assistant Legal Officers in the Legal Department”. 

2. This notification shall have effect from 15th February 
1960 and the inclusion in the Notification No. 21, dated 4th 
November 1949 1 by this Notification of the post of Adminis- 
trative Officer in the Department of Banking Development 
and in the Industrial Finance Department shall be deemed 
to have been made with effect from 17th September 1959. 

M. V. RANGACHARI 
Deputy Governor 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF 

INDIA 

(Chartered Accountants) 

NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi 1, the 16th March 1960 

No. l-CA(2)/60 — In pursuance of sub-regulation (2) of 
Regulation 42C of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 
1949, the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 

J1066GI 


of India is pleased to make the following amendment in 
the Chartered Accountants Students' Association Rules: 

In the said Rules: — 

Substitute the existing Rule 25 by the following : 

“25. (1) The Students’ Association Managing Committee 
shall meet at least once every six months: 

Provided that the Chairman or any three members of 
the Managing Committee may ask the Secretary to call a 
meeting on a particular date and time. 

(2> The Secretary to the Managing Committee shall issue 
notice at least 14 days before the date of the meeting in 
writing by post or otherwise to every member of the 
Managing Committee: 

Provided that the said Secretary may issue notice at a 
shorter period if it was unanimously decided and agreed 
to by the members of the Managing Committee in advance. 

Provided further that if a any two of the following, 
namely, the Chairman, the Vice-Chairman and the Secre- 
tary of the Managing Committee, considered it necessaiw, 
a meeting of the Managing Committee may be convened 
a shorter notice not being less than 7 days. * 

(3) The notice shall contain the time, date and place of 
meeting and as far as possible the business to be transacted 
thereat.” 

E. V. SBINIVASAN 
Secretary 

THE INSTITUTE OF COST AND WORKS ACCOUNT- 
ANTS OF INDIA 

(Cost Accountants) 

NOTIFICATION 
Calcutta 16, the 7 th March 1960 

No. 18-CWR(l)/60 — It is hereby notified in pursuance of 
Regulation 18 of the Cost and Works Accountants Regu- 
lations, 1959, that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Regulation 17 of the said Regulations, the Council of the 
Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India has ics~ 
tored to the Register of Members, with effect from the 7th 
March I960, the name of Shri Singarazu Subba Rao, Cost 
Accounts Officer, Ministry of Finance, Department of Ex- 
penditure, Room No. 100, 4th Floor, LJ.C. Building, Parlia- 
ment Street, New Delhi, (Membership Number — 434), 

S. N. GHOSE 

Secretary 

CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

NOTIFICATION 
Bombay , the 15 th March 1960 

No. 6/3/54-Admn. — In continuation of this office notifica- 
tion No. 6/3/54-Admn., dated 6th February I960, Shri V. S 
Shroff, Secretary to the Chairman, Central Board of Film 
Censors, Bombay, is granted an extension of earned leave 
for 32 days with effect from 9th March 1960 to 9th April 
1960 with permission to suffix Sunday, the 10th April I960 
to his leave and to leave station. 


( 157 ) 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 26, 1960 


[ Part III — Sec* 4 


On expiry of his leave, Shri V* S, Shroff is reposted a $ 
Secretary to the* Chairman. Central Board of Film Censors. 
Bombay. 

D. L. KOTHAR! 
Actiiig Chairman 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Employees' State Insurance Corporation 
NOTIFICATIONS 
Kanpur , the 4th March 1960 

No. K/Estt/159(14)— It is hereby notified that Local Com- 
mittee consisting of the following members have been ap- 
pointed for Mirzapur area in Kanppr Region under Regu- 
lation 10-A of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 
(General) Regulation, 1950 with effect from the date ^ of 
notification. 

MIRZAPUR AREA 

Chairman 

Under Regulation 10-A(l)-a 

1. Civil Surgeon, Mirzapur ( Ex-Officio ). 

Members 

Under Regulation 10-A(l)-b 

2. Assistant Labour Commissioner, Allahabad Region, 

Allahabad ( Ex-Officio ). 

Under Regulation 10-A(l)-c 

3. Senior Insurance Medical Officer, E.S.L Dispensary, 
. Mirzapur (Ex-Officio), 

Under Regulation 10-A(l)-d 

4. Shri D, N. Acharya, Manager, M/S E. Sefton & Co. 

Private Ltd., Mirzapur. 

5. Shri N. L. Roy, Mirzapur Electric Supply Co. Ltd., 

Mirzapur. 

Under Regulation 10-A(l)-e 

6. Shri Raj Bahadur Verma, Narghat, Mirzapur, 

7. Shri Anand Agnihqtri, UP, Trade Union Congress, 

12/1, Gwaltoll, Kanpur, 

Under Regulation 10-A(l)-f 

8. Managei\ Lpcal Office, E.S.I. Corporation, Allahabad 

(Ex-Officio) — Secretary. 

By order, 

R. K. AGRAWAL 
RegioTial Director 


New Delhi , the 14 th March 1960 

No. 25(4)-3/58-EsttJI— In pursuance of Section 25 of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948) as 
read with Regulation 10 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
(General) Regulations, 1950, the Chairman of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation is pleased to set 
up a Regional Board for the State of Assam consisting of 
the following members namely: — 

Chairman 

f Under Regulation 10(l)(a)’ 

1. Labour Minister, Assam State — Ex-Officio . 

Vice-Chairman 
( Under Regulation 10(l)(b) T 

2. Minister— Medical, Assam State— Ex-Officio. 

Members 

‘Under Regulation 10(1) (c)’ 

3. Shri H. P. Duara, B.Com. (Leeds). Labour Comipis- 

sioner, Assam State. 

'Under Regulation 10(l)(dV 

4. The Director of Health Services. Assam State — Ex- 

Officio . 

‘ Under Regulation 10(l)(e)' 

5. Shri M. L, Chowkhani, M/S Bharat Engineering 

Works, Makum Junction (Assam). 

6. Shri M, N. Sarmah, General Secretary, LN.T.U.C., 

Assam Branch, Dibrugarh. 

* Under Regulation 10(1 )(/)’ 

7. Shri B. L. Sen, LA.S., Secretary to the Govt, of Assam, 

Labour Department, Shillong. 


The 17 th March 1960 

No. 3/(4) -6/59-Estt.n— Shri Hardev Singh Chhina, I.A.S., 
Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Vigilance and 
Labour and Employment Departments, Chandigarh, having 
been nominated as a member of the Employees' State 
Insurance Corporation representing the State Government 
of Punjab vide Government of India, Ministry of Labour 
and Employment Nctification No. HI-1 (180)/ 59, dated the 
4th January I960, the following amendment, in pursuance 
of Section 25 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(XXXIV of 1948) as read with Regulation 10 of the Em- 
ployees' State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950, is 
hereby made in the Notification of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Corporation No. 29-(4)/8/57, dated the 1st June 
1959, namely: — 

In the said Notification, under sub-heading ‘Under Regu- 
lation 10(l)(f)\ for item 7, the following item shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“7. Shri Hardev Singh Chhina, LA.S., Secretary to the 
Government of Punjab, Vigilance and Labour and 
Employment Departments, Chandigarh.” 

The 18th March I960 


No. 3(4)-6/59-Esttn — In pursuance of Section 26 of the 
Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948) as 
read with Regulation 10 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
(General) Regulations, 1950, the Chairman, Employees’ State 
Insurance Corporation ii pleased to give additional repre- 
sentation, under the proviso to Regulation 10(1) ibid f to 
the representatives of the employers and employees, Sarva- 
shri G. K. Nayar and Parduman Singh respectively, on the 
Regional Board for Punjab State, and accordingly makes 
the following amendment in the Corporation Notification 
No. 29-(4)-8/57-Estt., dated 1st June 1959, namely: — 

In the said notification, after Item (7) under the heading 
‘‘Under Regulation 10(l)(f)”, the following heading and the 
items (8) and' (9) shall be added, namely: — 

" Under Proviso to Regulation 10(1): 

8. Shri G. K. Nayar, B.A., LL.B., Honorary Labour 

Officer, The Textile Manufacturers’ Association, 

Post Box' No. 79, 4, Queen’s Road, Amritsar. 

9. Shri Parduman Singh, General Secretary, Textile 

Mazdoor Ekta Union Regd., Putli Ghar, Amritsar . 

No. INS.I-22(I)-4/60 — In pursuance of the powers confer- 
red by section 46(2) of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948, (34 of 1948) read with* Regulation 95-A of the 

Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950 I 
hereby notify 1st May 1960 as the date from which the 
medical benefit as laid down in the said Regulation 95-A 
and the Orissa Employees' State Insurance (Medical Bene- 
fit) Rules, 1951, shall be extended to the families of insured 
persons in the areas of Rajgangpur, Chowdwar, Barang, 
Cuttack and Brajarajnagar in the State of Orissa as indi- 
cated in the Schedule given belqw:-^ 

Schedule : 

L Rajgangpur area comprising of the revenue villages 


(a) Liploi; 

(b) Ranibandh; 

(c) Kumarkela; and 

(d) Lanlol 

in tehsil Rajgangpur in district of Sundargarh. 

II. The Choudwar area comprising Qf the revenue 
villages of: 

(a) Choudwar; 

(b) Kedareswar; 

(c) Mundamal; 

(d) Kapoleswar; 

(e) Sultanpur; 

(f) Banipada; 

(g) Chatisa n; 

(h) Kalyansffighpur; 

(i) Daulatabad; 

(j) Gopalpur; and 


III. 

IV. 


(k) Jinipur Narasingpur 

in tehsil Cuttack in district Cuttack, 

The Barang area comprising of the revenue village 
of Dadhapatna i n tehsil Cuttack in district Cuttack* 


The areas within the municipal limits of Cuttack in 
tehsil Cuttack in district Cuttack* 



Pabt III— Sec. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MARCH 26, 1960 


169 


V. Brajraj'nagar area comprising of the revenue 
villages of: 

(a) Telanpali; and 

(b) Lamptibahal 

in tehsil Jharsuguda and district Sambalpur. 

No. Genl/Amend/9 — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 97 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(M of 1948), the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the 
Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950, 
the same having been previously published as required by 
subjection (1) of the said section, namely: — 

In the said Regulations: — 

1. In Regulation 98, in clauses (ii) and (iii) after the 
word “tuberculosis” the words “leprosy, mental 
and malignant diseases” shall be inserted. 

S. K. CHHIBBER 
Director General 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
Hindu Religions Endowments Commission 
(Legislative Department) 

NOTIFICATION 

New Delhi 2, the 10th March 1960 

No. F.6/60-HREC — It is notified for general information 
that the Hindu Religious Endowments Commission appoint- 
ed recently by the Government of India for the purpose 


of making inquiry into certain matters connected with the 
Hindu public religious endowments in India with Dr. C. P. 
Ramaswami Aiyar as its Chairman has commenced its 
work. The f Sikh endowments will be excluded from the 
categories of religious institutions within the scope of the 
Commission’s inquiry. All other Hindu religious endow- 
ments including those of Virasaivas, Lingayats, Kabir- 
panthis, Buddhists, Jains, and followers of the Brahmo, 
Prarthana, Arya Samaj and Nirmals will be included in 
the categories to be dealt with by the Commission. All 
public bodies, institutions and individuals interested in the 
management and maintenance — present and future— of 
Hindu temples/mutts and other Hindu Shrines and also, 
interested in the proper utilization of their resources and 
other matters pertaining to the management, maintenance 
and future of such religious temples, mutts etc. are in- 
vited to oiler their views in the form of memoranda which 
should be addressed to the Secretary^ Hindu Religious 
Endowments Commission C/o Ministry of Law, New Delhi 
within two months from the date of this notice. It may also 
be intimated whether they would be willing to be examin- 
ed by the Commission in person as witnesses. 

S. P. SEN-VERMA 
Secretary 

Hindu Religious Endowments Commission 



BEGD. N«. rJU 



