REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette 


of India 


. 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 15 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1963 CHAITRA 23, 1885 


PART II — Section 3 - Sub -section (1) 
General Statutory Rules ( including orders , bye-laws etc. of a general 

character ) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central Authorities ( other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories ) , 


01. - In exercise resident here by the Govinha 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
(Department of Legal Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd March 1963 
G . S .R . 603 (Contract /Amendment 50 ). - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( 1 ) of Article 299 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that 
the following further amendments shall be made in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Law No. GSR 1161 dated 1st December , 1958 
relating to the execution of contracts and assurances of property , namely : - - 

In the said notification 

A . In part VI, which relates to the Ministry of Finance, under Head A , after 
Item 4 , the following item shall be inserted , namely : - . 

“ 5 . In the case of the Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings, Oorgaum : — 
( i) ( a ) All contracts and other instruments relating to purchase , supply , 

conveyance or carriage of stores and building materials and for 

the provision of labour ; 
( b ) Security bonds for due performance and completion of works and / or 

contracts and all other instruments relating to any security for 

due performance and completion of works and / or contracts. 
( c ) Indentures to bind apprentices at the Kolar Gold Mines for a definite 

term ; 
(d ) Agreements relating to lease of land and buildings and other pro 

perties ; 
( e ) Agreements with establishment including Workmen s establishments ; 
( 1) Contracts for works administratively approved by the Ministry of 

Finance ; 
( 8 ) Security and Fidelity Guarantee bonds in connection with the em 

ployment of cashiers and other staff who are required to furnish 
such bonds; by the Managing Director, Kolar Gold Mining Under 

takings . 
( II ) Agreements included in the Memoranda of Agreement referred to in 
Rule 40 of the Workmens Compensation (Mysore ) Rules , 1953; 

( 639 ) 


640 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[Part II 


by the Managing Director , Kolar Gold Mining Undertaking ; the 

Superintendent, Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings (Nandydroog 
Mine ) , Oorgaum in the case of Nandydroog Mine ; the Superinten 
dent, Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings ( Champion Reefs: Mine ) 
in the case of Champion Reef Mine, Champion Reefs ; the Superin 
tendent, Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings (Mysore Mines ) Marikup 
pam in the case of Mysore Mine ; the Chief Electrical Engineer , 
Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings (Electricity Department, Oorgaum 
in the case of Electricity Department; the Chief Medical and Sani 
tary Officer , Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings (Medical Establish 
ment) Champion Reefs in the case of Medical Establishment; and 
the Chief Officer , Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings (Watch and 
Ward Establishment) , Champion Reefs in the case of Watch and 
Ward Establishment. 


B . In part XV which relates to the Ministry of Economic and Defence Coordi 
nation , under Head B -Department of Technical Development, for the existing 
entry , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 


" All contracts and other instruments ; by Deputy Secretary to the Central 

Government in the Ministry of Economic and Defence Coordination , 
Director General Technical Development or Deputy Director ( Ad 
ministration ) in the Directorate General Technical Development." 


C . In part XIX which relates to the Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabili 
tation , under Head - F . . . Department of Rehabilitation in item 6 for the words 
" removal of immovable property " the words " removal of movable property " shall 
be substituted . 


D . In part XX which relates to the Department of Atomic Energy , all the 
existing entries thereunder shall be deleted and the following shall be substituted 
therefor , namely : 


" In the case of the Department of Atomic Energy : - - 


A . All contracts and assurances of property relating to the business of 

the Department of Atomic Energy : by the Secretary , Joint Secre 
tary or Deputy Secretary to the Gorernment of India in the Depart 
ment of Atomic Energy . 


B . In the case of the Atomic Energy Establishment, Trombay ; Atomic 

Minerals Division ; Architecture and Civil Enginecring Division ; 

Tarapur Atomic Power Project and Jadugunda Mining Project : - - 
(i ) ( a ) All contracts and / or instruments relating to works of all kinds, 

purchase of equipment and stores ; conveyance or carriage of mate 
rials and procurement of atomic and other minerals ; ( b ) Security 
bonds for due performance and completion of works and or con 
tracts and all other instruments relating to any security for due 
performance of works and / or contracts : ( c ) Security bonds for the 
due performance of their duties by government servants ; by the 
Chief Scientific Officer (Chemical Engineering ) Atomic Energy 
Commission , Chief Scientific Officer , Deputy Chief Scientific 
Officer , Superintending Engineer , Executive Engineer , Head Pur 
chase and Stores Division , Senior Purchase Officer, Purchase 
Officer , Assistant Purchase Officer , Controller Or Head , Personnel 
Division in the Atomic Energy Establishment Trombay ; Director , 
Atomic Mineral Division , Chief Engineer , Superintending Engi 
neer, Executive Engineer in the Architecture and Civil Engineer - 
ing Division in the Department of Atomic Energy ; the Project 
Administrator , Chief Engineer , Superintending Engineer , Execu 
tive Engineer in Tarapur Atomic Power Project ; Or the General 

Manager , Jadugunda Mines. 
(II) Service agreements ; by the Controller or Head , Personnel Division , 

Atomic Energy Establishment Trombay . 
( iii ) Security bonds of cashiers and other government servants or their 

suretles to secure the due execution of an office or the due 


SEC. 9(1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 . 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1863 


641 


Accounting for money or other property received by virtue there 
of; by the Project Administrator , the Chief Engineer, Superin 
tending Engineer or Executive Engineer , Tarapur Atomic Power 

Project. 
E . In part XXX , the following words shall be inserted after the words " the 
Private Secretary (Administration ) and before the words " to the Prime Minister " 
namely : 
" or the Additional Private Secretary Administration ) " . 

[No. F . 17 (1 )/ 61- J.] 
S. S. KAR, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1963 . 
G .S .E ., 604 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Special Police Establishment (Prosecution Staff ) Recruitment Rules, 1982 , 
namely : - - 

1. These rules may be called Special Police Establishment (Prosecution Staff ) 
Recruitment (Amendment ) Rules, 1963 . 

2 . In the schedule to the Special Police Establishment ( Prosecution Staff ) 
Recruitment Rules , 1962, for the entries in column 10 , the following entries shall 
be substituted , namely : 
“ ( a ) 50 per cent by transfer / deputation of suitable officers of the State or 

Central Government Departments, failing which by direct recruit 

ment. 
(b ) 50 % by promotion ." 

[No. 18 /8 /59 -AVD .] 
T. C . A . RAMANUJACHARI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 3rd April 1963 
G . S . R . 605 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
40 of the Defence of India Act, 1962 (51 of 1962 ) the Central Government hereby 
directs that the powers exerciseable by it under rule 67 of the Defence of India 
Rules , 1962, shall also be exerciseable by the State Governments including Adminis 
trators of Union Territories . 

(No. 32 / 3 / 63- ER - I. ) 
C . L . GOYAL , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 3rd April 1963 
G . S . R . 606. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1) of rule 113 
of the Defence of India Rules , 1962, the Central Government hereby appoints for 
the State of Andhra Pradesh a Compensation Tribunal with its headquarters at 
Hyderabad to exercise the functions conferred by rules 111 and 112 of the said 
Rules . The Compensation Tribunal shall consist of - - 

1. Shri Samluddin Mohammed , Chief Judge, Court of Small Causes , Hyderabad 

and 
2 . Shri B . Lakshmipathy , Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax , 

Hyderabad 
as its members . 

[No. 4 / 63 -Poll ( Spl).] 
K . R . PRABHU , Dy . Secy . 


642 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II 


New Delhi, the 3rd April 1963 
G . S .R .. 607 . - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative Service ( Pay ) 
Rules , 1954, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment ! 
Schedule III appended to the sald Rules , 


Amendment 


In the said Schedule III under the heading C -Posts carrying pay above the 
time- scale or special pay in addition to pay in the time-scale under the Centra 
Government wherı held by meinbers of the Service , against Home AHairs th 
following entries shall be added , namely :- - 


" Superintendent of Census 
Operations in States 

Senior scale 

300 subject to the condiuon the 
pay plus special pay does no 

excced R3. 2000 . 
Superintendent of C - ngus Junior scale or Senior 200 subject 10 the condition thi 
Opérations , llimachal Pradesh scale 

pay plus Special pay dor 

not exceed RS. 1400 . 
Superintendent of Census 

Junior scale Or Senior 150 subject to the condition th 
Operations in Union Territories / scale 

pay plus special pay Jocs D 
Administrations except Himachal 

exceed Rs. 1400 . 
Pradesh . 
Deputy Sperintcadcnt of Ccous jurioircal 0 : SCI . CI JSC subject to the curdition th 
Operations in States , 

scale, 

pay plus special pay Çocs n 
excret Rs. 1700 ." 

(No. 1 / 38 /63 -AIS (II ) 
K . S. N . MURTHY, Under Sec; 


CORRIGENDUM . 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1963 
G . S . R . 608. - The following further corr- ction shall be made in the Centri 
Secretariat Service Rules , 1962 , as published under the Ministry of Home Affall 
Notification No, G . S . R . 1306 in the Gazctte of India Extraordinary , Part II, Sectic 
3, Sub -section (i) , dated 28th September, 1962 , namely : 

Against item ( iii ) relating to " Development Commissioner, Small Scale Indu 
tries " under " Ministry of Commerce and Industry " under column ( 2 ) in ti 
Second Schedule, for the existing entry " Deputy Director (Administration ) 
substitute the entry " Deputy Directors (Administration and Co - ordination ) ." 

[No. 25/ 2 /63- CS (A ) 
MOHINDAR SINGH , Under Sec 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 
G . S . R . 809. — Whereas in the opinion of the Central Government the issue 
November 1962 of the Urdu periodical entitled " Bang " , published by " Az 
Kashmir Radio" , contains prejudicial reports as defined in clause ( 7 ) of rule 
of the Defence of India Rules, 1982 ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 46 of the Defen 
of India Rules, 1982 , the Central Government hereby 
( a ) prohibits the further sale or distribution of the said issue or any extra 

therefrom or of any translation thereof, and the sale or distributi 
of any subsequent issue of the said periodical; 


Sta. 3(1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13. 1969 / CHAITRA 23 , 1888 


643 


(b ) declares the said issue and every copy or translation thereot or extract 

therefrom , to be forfeited to Government; and 
( c ) directs every person possessing any copy of the said issue to deliver the 
same to the local police authorities. 

[No. 59 / 46 / 63 - Poll ( I). ] 
New Delhi, the 3rd April 1963 
G . S . R . 610 . – Whereas in the opinion of the Central Government the issue of 
February 1963 of the periodical entitled " Eastern World " , published from 58 , 
Paddington Street , London , W . f, and printed by H . G . Leates Ltd ., Southend -on 
Sea , Essex , contains prejudicial reports as defined in clause ( 7 ) of rule 35 of the 
Detence of India Rules, 1982; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 45 of the Defence 
of India kules , 1962, the Central Government hereby 
( a ) prohibits the further sale or distribution of the sald issue or any 

extract therefrom or of any translation thereof, and declares the 
said issue and every copy or translation thercof or extract there 

from , to be forfeited to Government; and 
(b ) directs every person possessing any copy of the said issue to deliver the 
game to the local police authorities . 

[No. 59 /48 / 63- Poll. I.] 
G . S . R . 611. — Whercas in the opinion of the Central Government issue No. 14 , 
dated -he 29th Marca , 1983 of the periodical entitled " China Today " , edited , printed 
and published by Wang Chih -hsi for the Information Omce of the Embassy of the 
People s Republic of China in India , New Delhi, contains prejudical reports as 
delincd in clause ( 7 ) of rule 35 of the Defence of India Rules , 1962 ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 45 of the Defenco 
of India Rules, 1962 , the Central Government hereby 

( a ) prohibits the further sale or distribution of the said Issue or any extract 

therefrom or of any translation thereof. and declares the said issue and 
every copy or translation thereof or extract therefrom , to be forfeited 

to Government; and 
(h ) directs every person possessing any copy of the sald issue to deliver the 
same to the local police authorities. 

(No. 59 / 50 / 63- POLI , 1. ) 
New Delhi, the 4th April 1963 
G . S .R . 612 . - Wher - as in the opinion of the Central Government the Urdu booklet 
entitled " Hindustan ke Musalmanon par Muzalım ki kahani - Hindustani Akhbarat 
ki zuban !" , purporting to be published by Anjaman Naujawanan -e Islam , Srinagar, 
Kashmir in November 1962 and printed at Kashmir Printing Press, Srinagar, 
contains prejudicial reports as defined in clause (7 ) of rule 35 of the Defence of 
Indla Rules, 1982 ; 

Now , therefore , In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 45 of the Defence 
of India Rules, 1982 , the Central Government hereby 

( a ) prohibits the further sale or distribution of the said hooklet cr any 

extract therefrom or of any translation thereof, and declares the sald 
booklet and every cony or translation thereof or extract theretrom , to 

be forfelted to Government; and 
( b ) directs every person possessing any copy of the said booklet to deliver 
the same to the local police authorities . 

( No . 59 / 39 / 63 - Poll (I ) .} 
P . K . DAVE , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1963 
G . S . R . 613. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - srction ( 1 ) of section 
25 read with sub - section ( 3 ) of section 160 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) , 


614 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II – 


the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest 
Bo to do, hereby rescinds the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Revenue ) No. 137 - Customs, dated the 10th May, 1958 . 

[No. 72 / F . No. 5 / 56 / 62 -Cus. I. ] 
New Delhi, the 13th April 1963 
G . 8 . R . 614 .. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 25 read with sub -section ( 3 ) of Section 160 of the Customs Act , 1962 (52 of 
1962 ) , the Central Government being satisfied that it is necessary in the public 
interest so to do , makes the following amendment to the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Finance ( Department of Revenue ) No. 69 
Customs, dated the 16th May, 1957 , namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notification Serial No . 2 and the entrics relating 
thereto shall be omitted . 

[No. 105 / F , No. 5 ( i) / 32 / 62 -Cus.I.] 

S . VENKATESAN , Dy. Secy, 


10 The de colesterol 


(Department of Revenue ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 13th April 1963 
G .8 .R . 616 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , namely : 

1. There rules may be called the Central Excise ( Eighth Amendment ) Rules, 
1983. 

2 . In the Central Excise Rules, 1944 – 

In the Note below Rule 32, in condition ( e ), for the words " The Assistant 
Collector , the words An officer not below the rank of an Assistant Collector , 
shall be substituted . 

[No. 80 / 83 . F . No . 17 / 5 /63-CXIV . ] 

L . S. MARTHANDAM , Dy. Secy. 


n 


( Department of Revenue) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 13th April 1963 
G . S .R . 616 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely : --- 


1 . These rules may be called the Central Excise (Seventh Amendment) Rules, 

1963. 


2 . In the Central Excise Rules , 1944, for sub - rule (2 ) of rule 52 - B , the 

following sub - rule shall be substituted , namely : 


“ ( 2 ) If as a result of any such scrutiny , audit or otherwise , a manufacturer 

is found to have maintained incorrect accounts , or removeri or utilised 
any excisable goods without payment of duty lcviabl . thereon other 
wise than for export as prescribed under the rules or as provided 
in the rules relating to the procedure for the removal or utilisation 
of such excisable goods or otherwisc not found to have accounted 


Sec. 3 (1) ] 


TUE GAZE I IE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1969 / CHAITRA 29, 1885 


- 


645 


for the exciseable goods to the satisfaction of the proper officer , he 
shall be llable to pay the full duty chargeable on such goods and a 
penalty which may extend to two thousand rupees," 

[No. 58 / 63 F . No. 2 / 7 / 62 -CX . I. ] 

L . M . KAUL , Dy. Secy. 


manicence 
ter cand numb of the per 


OFFICE OF THE NARCOTICS COMMISSIONER , GWALIOR 

(Narcotics Department) 

Gwalior, the 8th March 1963 
G . S . R . 617 . - In pursuanch of condition 3 of the licence granted under rule 7 
of the Central Manufactured Drugs Rules, 1962, it is hereby notified that every 
application for the issue of licence for the manufacture of Pethidine Hydrochloride 
shall state the following details, namely :-- - 
1. Name or names, and the address or addresses of the person or persons 

applying , if the applicant is a firm , the name and address of every 
partner of the firm ; and if a coinpany , the registered name and address 
thereof, the names of the Directors , Managers , and Managing Agents , 
Servant, etc. and if there is a Managing Director , the name of such 

Director. 
2. The amount of capital proposed to be invested in the venture. 
3 . The name of the place and the site on which the building or buildings 

housing the manufactory is /are situated or to be constructed ; in case 
of renewal of licence, the following particulars, with distinguishing 

letter or number or letter and number of each , to be furnished : - - 
(i ) brief description (with boundaries ) of the permises; 
( ii ) description of each main division or sub - division of the manufactory ; 
( lii ) store for the raw materials ; 
( iv ) laboratory ; 

( v ) finished store . 
4 . Approximate date from which the applicant desires to commence the 

manufactory . 
5 . The number and full description of the permanent apparatus and 

machinery which the applicant wishes to set up or work or already 
set up ( giving distinguishing letter or number or letter and number 

of each ). 
6 . The maximum quantity of finished drug likely to remain in the manu 

factory at any one time. 
7. The amount in cash or Government Promissory Notes which the applicant 

is prepared to furnish for the due performance of the conditions on 

which the licence may be granted . 
8.Whether quarters for the supervisory staff will be provided within the 

manufactory or its vicinity . 
9 . The kind and number of each licence under the Dangerous Drugs Act, 

1930 and Drugs Act, 1940 held by the applicant . 
( a ) Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 No . Dated 
(b ) Drugs Act, 1940 - No. 

Dated 
10 . Names and approximate quantities of dangerous drugs other than 

Pethidine Hydrochloride handled in a year by the manufacturer in 

the premises : 
( 1) Morphine 
(ii) Cocaine 

Kgs . 
(111 ) Medicinal opium 

Kgs. 
( iv ) Codeine 

Kgs. 
( v ) Dionine 

Kgs. 


Kgs. 


646 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 / CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART 11 


(vi) Medicinal hemp 

Kgs. 
( vil) 

Kgs. 
(vill) 

Kgs . 
Certified that Pethidine Hydrochloride proposed to be manufactured is required 
golely for medical or scientific purposes . The treasury chalan for Rs. 50 having 
been deposited on account of licence fee and the licences granted under the 
Dangerous Drugs Act , 1930 and Drugs Act , 1940 are hereby enclosed. 


Place : 


Date : 


Designation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

[No. F. 332/ 1/ 55 / 3955 .] 

D . N . KOHLI, 
Narcotics Commissioner to th : Govt. of India. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 28th March 1963 
G .S . R . 618 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , we Piesident hereby makes the following amendments to the 
rules regulating d -rect recru . tment to the Central Engineering Service , Class I, 
18sued with the nothication of the Governinent of India in the Ministry of Works, 
Hous.ng and Supply No, G . S . R . 233 , dated the 10th February 1961, namely : 


1 . For rule 5 of the said rules, the following rule shall be substituted , namely 
" 5 . A candidate must be either 

(1) a citizen of India , or 
(il) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( ili ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling In India ; 
Provided that, subject to the issue of a certificate of eligibility in his favour, # 
subject of Nepal, or a Tibetan who came over to India before the 1st January , 1962 , 
with the intention no nermanently settling in India may also be appointed to any 
Central Service or post : 


Provided further that a candidate belonging to category ( ili ) above must be a 
person in whose favour a certiñcate of eligibility has been given by the Government 
of India and that the rertificate of eligibiity will be valid only for a period of one 
year from the date of his appointment beyond which he can he retained in service 
only if he has become a citizen of India . Certificate of eligibility will not, however, 
be necessary in t ie case of a candidate belonging to any one of the following cate 
gories : 


(a ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July , 

1948 , and have ordinarily been residing in India since then , 


(b ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July , 1948 , 

and have mot themselves registered as citizens under article 6 of the 
Constitution , 


(c ) Non - citizens of catrgory ( lil) above who entered service under the Gov 

ernment of India before the commencement of the Constitution , viz ., 
26th January , 1950 , and who have continued in such service since 
then . Any such person who re - entered or may re - enter such service 
with break after the 26th January , 1950, will, however , require certi 
ficate of eligibility in the usual way . 


Sara B(A ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15 , 1963 /CHAITRA 25, 1886 


647 


2. In the words “ who accurring posts in th 


A candidate in whose case certificate of eligibility is necessary may be admitted 
to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed subject to the 
necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by the Government. 
2 . In rule 7 of the said rules 
for the words " who are permanently employed in the Central Public Works 

Department" occurring in the first paragraph , the words " who hold 
substantively permanent posts in the Central Public Works Depart 

ment" shall be substituted . 
3. ln rule 8 of the said rules 

(1 ) for clause (a ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( a ) obtained a degree in Enginerring from a University incorporated by 

an Act of the Central or State Legislature in India or other educa 

tional Institutes established by an Act of Parliament, or" 
( 2 ) for the last anntence in Note II, the following sentence shall be substi 

tuted , namely : 
" Such candidates will be admitted to the examination , if otherwise eligi 

ble , but the admission would be deem : d to be provisional and sub 
ject to cancellation if the candidates do not produce proof of having 
passed the examination , as soon as possible , and in any case not 
later than two months after the commencement of this examina 

tion " . 
4 . In rule 12 of the said rules 
for the second sentence , the following sentence shall be substituted , namely : 
“ No claim for a refund of th : fces will be entertained except to the extent 

stated in that Appendix nor can the fees be held in reserve for any 

other examination or selection " , 
8 . In rule 15 of the said rules 
for the last sentence of the first paragraph , the following sentence shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" All candidates who are declared quallfled for the Personality Test will be 

physically examined at the place where they are summoned for 
Interview , either immediately before or after the interview . Candi 
dates will have to pay a fe of Rs. 18 :00 to the Medical Board . Tha 
fact that a candidate has been physically examined will not mean or 

imply that he will be congidered for appointment." 
6 . In Appendix II to the said rules 
for the second sub -paragraph of paragraph 2, the following shall be substi 

tuted , namely : 


" In exceptional cases, the Commission may accept a surveying certifcate 

from any other institution not recognised by then for the purpose 
of admission to the competetive examination for the Service, if they 
are satisfied that the practical training in Surveying imparted in 
that institution would meet the requirements of the Service , and 
their decision in the matter will be Anal." 


7 . In Appendix III of the said rules 
In paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ), for the abbreviation , figures and words " Rs. 18 . 00 

before examination by a Medical Board , if declared qualifed for tho 

Personality Test" , the following shall be substituted , hainely : 
" Rs. 16 .00 before examination by a Medical Board , if declared qualified for 

the Personality Test ." 


(No. 15 (8 ) / 82 - EWI(1) . ] 


G . 8 . R . 619 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following amendments to the 
rules regulating direct recruitment to the Central Engineering Servire , Class II, 


648 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[Part II 


issued with the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, 
Housing and Supply No. G . S . R . 234 , dated the 10th February , 1981, namely : 

1, For rule 5 of the said rules, the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 


" 5. A candidate must be either 

(1) a citizen of India , or 
( li ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( 111) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India ; 


Provided that, subject to the issue of a certificate of eligibility in his favour, 
a subject of Nepal, or a Tibetan who came over to India before the 1st January , 
1962, with the intention of permanently settling in India may also be appointed to 
any Central Service or Post : 


Provided further that a candidate belonging to category ( iii ) above must be a 
person in whose favour a certificate of eligibility has been given by the Govern 
ment of India , and that the certificate of eligibilty will be valid only for a period 
of one year from the date of his appointment beyond which he can be retained in 
service only if he has become a citizen of India . Certificate of eligibility will not , 
however , be necessary in the case of a candidate belonging to any one of the 
following categories: 
( a ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan hefore the 19th July , 

1948 , and have ordinarily been residing in India since then . 
( b ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July , 1948 , 

and have got themselves registered as citizens under Article 6 of the 

Constitution . 
( c ) Non -citizens of category ( ui ) above who entered service under the 

Government of India before the commencement of the Constitution , 
viz ., 26th January , 1950 , and who have continued in such service since 
then . Any such person who re - entered or may re - enter such service 
with break after the 28th January , 1950, will, however, require certif 
cate of eligibility in the usual way . 


A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may be 
admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed subject 
to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by the Govern 
ment. 


2 . In rule 7 of the said rules 
for the words " who are permanently employed in the Central Public Works 

Department" occurring in the first paragraph , the words " who hold 
substantively permanent posts in tho Central Public Works Depart 
ment" shall be substituted . 


3 . In rulc 8 of the said ruleg 
( 1 ) for clause ( a ) , the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( a ) ohtained a degree in Engineering from a University Incorporated 

hy an Act of the Central or State Legislature in India or other 
educational Institutes cstablished by an Act of Parliament: or 


( 2 ) for the last sentence in Note IT, the following sentence shall be substi 

tuted , namely : 
" Such candidaing will b admitted to the examination , it otherwise 

ellgible , but the admission would be deemed to be provisional and 
sublect to cancellation if the candidates do not produce proof 
of having nassed the examination , as soon as possible , and , in any 
casa not later than two months after the commencement of this 
examination " . 


Sec . 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1968 /CHAITRA 23, 1883 


649 


4. In rule 12 of the said rules 
for the second sentence , the following sentence shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" No claim for a refund of the fees will be entertained except to the extent 

stated in that Appendix nor can the fees be held in reserve for any 

other examination or selection " . 
5 . In rule 15 of the said rulcs 
for the last sentence of the first paragraph , the following sentence shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" All candidates who are declared qualified for the Personality Test will 

be physically examined at the place where they are summoned for 
interview , either immediately before or after the interview . 
Candidates will have to pay a fee of Rs. 16 . 00 to the Medical 
Board . The fact that a candidate has been physically examined 

will not mean or imply that he will be considered for appointment." 
6 . In Appendix II to the said rules--- 
for the second sub - paragraph of paragraph 2 , the following shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" In exceptional cases, the Commission may accept a surveying certificate 

from any other institution not recognised by them for the purpose 
of admission to the competitive examination for the Service , it 
they are satisfied that the practical training in Surveying imparted 
in that institution would meet the requirements of the Service, and 

their decision in the matter will be final." 
7. In Appendix III of the said rules -- 
in paragraph ( 1 ) (b ), for the abbreviation , figures and words " Rs. 16 . 00 

before examination by a Medical Board , if declared qualified for the 

Personality Test" , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" Rs. 16 .00 before examination by a Medical Board , if declared qualified 
for the Personality Test." 

[No. 15 (6 ) /62; EWI ( 11 ).] 


G . S .R . 620. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following amendments to the 
rules regulating direct recruitment to the Central Electrical Engineering Service , 
Class I, issued with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Works, Housing and Supply No, G . S . R . 36 , dated the 31st December, 1958 , 
namely : — 

1. For rule 5 of the said rules, the following rule shall be substituted , name 
ly : 

" 5. A candidate must be either 

(i) a citizen of India , or 
(ii ) a subject of Sikkim , or 
(iii ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the 

intention of permanently settling in India ; 


Provided that, subject to the issue of a certifcate of eligibility in his favour , 
& subject of Nepal, or a Tibetan who came over to India before the 1st January , 
1962 with the intention of permanently settling in India may also be appointed 
to any Central Service or Post. 


Provided further that a canlilala Lolonging to category ( iii) above must be 
. a person in whose favour a rortificatr" of ligibility has been given by the Govern 
ment of India , and that the certificate of ligjhility will be valid only for a period 
of one year from the date of his ainointment beyond which he can bo retainart 
in service only if he has become a citizen of India . Certificate of eligibilliy will 


650 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1969 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II-- 


not, however, be necessary in the case of a candidate belonging to any one of the 
following categories : 
( a ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July . 

1948 , and have ordinarily been residing in India since then , 
( b ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July , 1948 , 

and have got themselves registered as citizens under Article 6 of the 

Constitution . 
( 0 ) Non - citizens of category ( iii ) above who entered service under the 

Government of india before the commencement of the Constitution , 
viz ., 26th January , 1950 , and who have continued in such service 
since then . Any surh person who re - entered or may re - enter such 
service with break after the 26th January , 1950, will, however, require 
certificate of eligibility in the usual way. 


A candidate in whose case a certiflrate of eligibility is necessary may be 
mitted to the cxamination and he may also be provisionally appointed subject 
to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by the Govern 
ment, 


2 . In rule 7 of the said rules 
for the words " who are permanently employed in the Central Public Works 

D - partmant" occurring in the first paragraph , the words "who hold 
substantively permanent posts in the Central Public Works Depart 
ment" shall be substituted . 


3 . Rule 8 of the said rules shall be omitted and rules 9 , 10 , 11, 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 
16 , 17 and 18 shall be re -numbered as 8 , 9 , 10 , 11, 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 and 17 respec 
tively . 


4 . In rule 8 of the said rules as so renumbered 

( 1 ) for clause ( a ) , the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 


" ( a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a University incorporated 

by an Art of the Central or State Legislature in India or other educa 
tional Institutes established by an Act of Parliament; or " 


( 2 ) for the last sentence in Note II , the following sentence shall be sub 

stituted , namely : 
" Such candidates will be admitted to the examination , if otherwise eligi 

ble , but the admission would be deemed to be provisional and 
subject to cancellation if the candidat & do not produce proof of 
having passed the examination , as soon as possible , and ; in any 
case not later than two months after the commencement of this 

examination " . 
$ . In rule 12 of the said rules, as so rer imbered 
for the second sentence , the following sentence shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" No claim for a refund of the fecs will be entertained except to the 

extent stated in that Appendix nor can the fees be held in reserye 
for any other examination or selection " , 


6 . In rule 15 of the said rules, as so renumbered 
for the last sentence of the first paragraph , the following sentence shall be 

substituted , namely - ; . 
* All candidates who are dorlater qualifled for the Personality Test will 

be physically examined at the place where they are gummoned for 
interview , either immediately before or after the interview . 
Candidates will have to pay a fee of Rs. 16 . 00 to the Medical Board . 
The fact that a candidate has been physically examined will not 
mean or imply that he will be considered for appointment" . 


Suc . 40 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1965 /CHAITRA 29, 1885 


651 


7. In Appendix III of the said rules 
In paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) , for the abbreviation , figures and words " Rs. 16 . 00 

before examination by a Medical Board , if declared qualifled for the 

Personality Test" , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
“ Rs. 16 . 00 before examination by a Medical Board, if declared qualified 
for the Personality Test" . 

(No. 15 ( 6 / 462 - EWI ( iii ).) 


G . S . R . 621 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following amendments to the 
rules regulating direct recruitment to the Central Electrical Engineering Service, 
Class II, issued with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Works, Housing and Supply No. G . S . R . 235 , dated the 10th February, 1961. 
namely : 

1. Tor rule 5 of the said rules, the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 


" 5 A candidate must be either 

(1) a citizen of India, or 
(11) a subject of Sikkim , or 
(u ) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from 

intention of permanently settling in India ; 


Pakistan with the 


Provided that, subject to the issue of a certifcate of eligib ! ity in his favour . a 
subject of Nepal or a Tibetan who came over to India before the 1st January , 1982, 
with the intention of permanently settling in India may also be appointed to any 
Central Service or Post. 

Provided turther that a candidate belonging to category ( iil) above must be a 
person in whose favour certificate of eligibility has been given by the Government 
of India , and that the certificate of eligibility will be valid only for a period of 
one year from the date of his appointment beyond which hc car be retained in 
service only if he has become a citizen of India . Certificate of e .igibility will not. 
however, be nocessary in the case of a candidate belonging to any one of the 
following categories : - - 
( a ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July . 1948 . 

and have ordinarily been residing in India since then , 
(b ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 13th July , 1948, 

and have got themselves registered as citizens under Article 6 of the 

Constitution , 
( c ) Non - citizens of category (iil) above who entered service under the 

Government of India before the commencement of the Constitution , 
viz . 26th January, 1950 , and who have continued in such service 
since then . Any such person who re - entered or may re - enter such 
service with break after the 26th January , 1950 , will, however , require 

certifcate of eligibility in the usual way . 
A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary may be admitted 
to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed subject to the 
necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by Government. 
2 . In rule 1 of the said rules 
for the words " who are permanently employed in the Central Public Works 

Department" occurring in the first paragraph , the words " who hold 
substantively permanent posts in the Central Public Works Depart 

ment" shall be substituted . 
8. In rule 8 of the said rules 

( 1 ) for clause ( a ), the following clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( a ) obtained a degree in Engineering from a Unlversity Incorporated by 

An Act of the Central or State Legislature in India or other educational 
Institutes established by an Act of Parliament; or " 


652 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAII RA 23, 1883 


[Part II 


(2 ) for the last sentence in Note II, the following sentence shall be gubstituted 

namely : 
" Such candidates will be admitted to the examination , if otherwise eligible , 

but the admission would be deemed to be provisional and subject 
to cancellation if the candidates do not produce proof of having 
passed the examination , as soon as possible , and in any case not 

later than two months after the commencement of this examination " . 
4 . In -rule 12 of the said rules 
for the second sentence, the following sentence shall be substituted , namely : 
" No claim for a refund of the fees will be entertained except to the extent 

stated in that Appendix nor can the fees be held in reserve for any 

other examination or selection " . 
5 . In rule 15 of the said rules 
for the last sentence of the Arst paragraph , the following sentence shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" All candidates who are declared qualified for the Personality Test will be 

physically examined at the place where they are summoned for 
interview , cither immediately before or after the interview . Candi 
dates will have to pay a fee of Rs. 16 00 to the Medical Board . 
The fact that a candidate has been physically examined will not 

mean or imply that he will be considered for appointinent." 
6 . In Appendix Ill of the said rules 
in paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) , for the abbreviation , figures and words " Rs. 16 . 00 

before examination by Al Medical Board , il declared quallied for tho 

Personality Test" , the following shall be substituted namely : 
" Rs. 16 .00 before examination by a Medical Board, it declared qualifled 
for the Personality Test " . 

[No. 15 ( 6 ) / G2 -EWI(lv ) . ] 
R . C . MEHRA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AND DEFENCE CO -ORDINATION 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 
G . $ . R . 622 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules to amend tha 
Examiner ol Stores (office of the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals ) 
Recruitment Rules , 1962, published with the notification of the Government of India , 
the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply GSR No. 1290 , dated the 20th 
September , 1962 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Examiner of Stores (office of the Directorato 

General of Supplies and Disposals ) Recruitment ( Amendment) Rules 
1963 . 


2 . 


Examiner of Stores ( omce of the Directorate General of Supplies and 
Disposals ) Recruitment Rules, 1982, after rule 5 , the following rule shall 
be added at the end namely : -- 


" 6 . Power to relax . - -Where the Central Government is of the opinion that 

it is necessary or expedient so to do , it may , by order , for reasong 
to be recorded in writing , relax any of the provisions of these rules 
with respect to any class or category of persons." 


[ No. 49 / 21 /62-ESII.) 
R . RAJAGOPALAN , Under Secy . 


21. 


R. RAJAGOPALA KE 


SEC . 3(1)] 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


653 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARGH AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1963 
G . S . R . 628 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the method of recruitment to General Central Service Class I and Class II posts 
in the National Atlas Organisation , namely : 

1 . ( 1 ) Short title and commencement. — These rules may be called the National 
Atlas Organisation ( Class I and Class II posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1963 . 

( 2 ) These rules shall come into force at once . 

2. Application . These rules shall apply for recruitment to Class I and Class II 
posts in the National Atlas Organisation specified in column 1 of the Schedule 
annexed hereto . 

3 . Number, Classifcation and scale of pay . The number of posts , classification 
of the said posts and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in 
columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule . 

4 . Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. — The method of 
recruitment, age limit , qualifications and other matters connected therewith shall 
be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid ; 

Provided that the maximum age limit specified in column 6 for direct recruits 
may be relaxed 

( a ) in the case of Government servants ; and 
(b ) in the case of candidates belonging to the Schedule Castes or Schedule 

Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the 
general orders of the Government of India , that may be issued from 

time to time. 
5 . Disqualification . ( a ) No person , who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason of its taking place during the life - time of such spouse , shall be eligible 
for appointment to service ; and 

( b ) no woman , whose marriage is void by reason of th husband having a 
wife living at the time of such marriage or who has married a person who has 
a wife living at the time of such marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to 
service ; 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering , exempt any person from the operation of this rule . 


SCHEDULE 
Recruitment Rules for the Posu in the National Atlas Organisation in Ministry of Saimtific Research and Cultural Affairs 


054 


Name of 

post 


No. of 
posts 


Classifica - Scade of pay 

tion 


Whether Age Educational and other Whether Period of Method of In case of If a Circum 
selection limit qualifications required age and proba - rectt. rectt . by pro - Depart- stances 
post or for direct for direct recruits , educa - tion , if Whether motion , trans - mental in which 
non - recruits . 

tional any. by direct fer , grades Promo UPSC 
selection 

qualifi 

rectt . or from which tion is to be 
post. 

cations 

by promo, promotion Commi- consulted 
prescri 

tion or to be made, ttce exi - in me 
bed for transfer & 

sts what king rectt. 
the direct percentage 

is its 
recruits of the 

compo 
vacancies 

sition 
apply in 

to be 
the case 

filled by 
of pro 

various 
motees. 

methods. 


will 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL13,1963/CHAITRA23,1885 


1 


2 


3 


8 


9 


10 


II 


12 


13 


2 years . 


1 , Deputy 

Director 


General 
Central 
Service 
Class I 


Rs . 700 - 40 
1100 - 50 - 2 
1250 


Selection 50 yrs. Essential : 

No . 
(i) Master s or equivalent 

Hons. degree in Geo 
graphy or allied subject 
of a recognised University . 


( 1 ) About 3 years experi 

ence in responsible po 
sition in a map publica 
tion office of standing, 
with knowledge of di 
fferent operations of pro 
duction of maps includ 
ing drawing and print 

ing. 
Qualifications relaxable at 

Commission s discre 
tion in case of candidates 
otherwise well qualified . 


By Pro Promotion : Class I As rt 
motion (i) Research Depart- quired 
failing Officer. mental under 
which by 

Promo- the rules. 
direct re - ( i ) Drawing tion 
cruitment Officer Commi 

ttee . 
ül Techni 

calOfficer 
(with at least 
5 years ser 
vice in the 
grade). 


[PartII 


Desirable : 
(i) Adequate knowledge of 

Applied Cartography 

and Photogrammetry . 
(i ) Research publication 

Preferably on Carto 
graphy. 


Sec.3(1)] 


2 . Research 

Officer 


3 


Do. 


Do . 


Rs. 400 - 400 - 
450 - 30 - 600 - 
35 -670 - EB - 
35 -950 . 


Do. 


Not 
appli 
cable . 


Direct 
recruit- 
ment. 


Not appli - 
cable . 


40 yrs . Essential : 

Not 
(i) Master s or equivalent appli 

Hons, degree in Geo - cable . 
graphy or allied subject 
of a recognised Univer 
sity . 


Not 
appli 
cable , 


(11) Adequate experience of 

research involving col 
lection of data and pre 
paration of maps of 
varied types of which 
evidence to be furnished . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL13,1963/CHAITRA23,188% 


Qualifications relaxable at 

Commission s discre 
tion in case of candidates 
otherwise well quali 
fied . 


Desirable : 
(i) Specialisation in Ecom 

aomic Geography. 
(ü ) Some training in Car 

tography. 
(ü ) Knowledge of statis 

tics , 


655 


656 


1 


2 


3 


8 


9 


IO 


10 


II 


11 


I2 


12 


13 


3 . Drawing 

Officer . 


3 


General 
Central 
Service ) 
Class I 


Rs. 400 - 400 
450 - 30 - 600 
35 -670 - EB 
35 - 950 . 


Not 
appli 
cable . 


40 yrs . Essential : 

Not 
(1) Degree of a recognised appli 
University . 

cable. 


2 years Direct 

recruit- 
ment, 


Not appli - 
cable . 


Not 
appli - 
cable. 


As re 
quired 
under 
the rules . 


(ii) Adequate experience 

in running a drawing 
section , with working 
knowledge of various 
operations of printing 

office in general . 
Qualifications relaxable at 

Commission s discre 
tion in case of candidates 

otherwise well qualified 
Davable : 
(1) Some training in topo 

graphical surveying. 
(u ) Knowledge of projec 

tion of topographical 

and geographical maps . 
Essential : 
(1) A Master s or equiva 

lent Hors. degree of a 
recognised University 
in Geography or Geo 
logy or an allied subject. 

OR 
A Bachelor s degree with 

at least 2 years experi 
ence of technical work 
in organisation connec 
ted with drawing and 
printing of maps and 
atlases. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL15,1963/CHAITRA23,1885 


4 Technical 

Officer 


2 


Da 


Da 


Do. 


Do. 


Do, 


Do 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


[PARTII 


SEC 
, 
3 
( 
1 
) 
] 


Desirable : 
i) Foreign training in 

Cartography and map 

ping. 
(* ) Two years experience 

of Survey of India me 
thods in drawing and 
reproduction 


S. Statistical 

Officer. 


2 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


General Rs. 325 -15 -475 - Do. 
Central EB - 20 - 575 
Service 
Class 11 
(Gazetted ) 


35 years Essential : 

(1) Master s or equivalent 

Hons. degree in 
Statistics /Mathematics 
or Economics (with Sta 
tistics of a recognised 
University ) . 


( ii ) About 2 years experi 

ence of resear chin Ap 
plied Statistics , or in 
carrying out sample 
surveys , involving col 
lection , compilation and 
interpretation of statis 

tical data . 
Qualifications relaxable at 

Commission s discre 
tion in case of candidates 
otherwise well qualified . 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
APRIL 
18 
, 
1963 
/ 
CHAITRA 
25 
, 
1885 


{No. 1 - 51/57- S .IL ] 
M . M . JAIN , Under Secy . 


657 


658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAI I RA 29 , 1885 


[Part 11 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 
G . S . R . 624 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Films Division ( Recruitment to Class III and Class IV posts ) Rules , 
1959 , published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting, No. G . S .R . 1090, dated the 21st September, 
1959 , namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Films Division (Necruitment to Class III 

and Class IV posts ) Amendment Rules , 1963. 
In the Films Division (Recruitment to Class III and Class IV posts ) Rules , 
1959 , for the Note below rule 2 , the following Note shall be substituted , 

namely S 
" Note. In the case of displaced persons the relaxation referred to in clause ( 1) 
of the proviso will be made only upto the 31st December, 1963 " . 

(No. 3 / 1 / 63 - F ( A ) FDRR / 23. ) 
D . R . KHANNĄ , Under Secy . 


2 . 


New Delhi, the 3rd April 1963 
G . S .R . 628 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to Class I and Class II posts in the Central Board of Film Censors 
of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in the Government of India , 
namely : 

1. Short title . These rules may be called the Central Board of Film Censors 
(Class I and Class II posts ) Recruitment Rules , 1963 , 

2. Application . These rules shall apply for recruitment to the posts speciñed 
in column 2 of the Schedule annexed hereto . 


3 . Classification and Scale of Pay - The classification of the posts and the scales 
of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 3 and 4 of the said 
Schedule . 

4 . Nature , method of recruitmont, age limit and qualifications etc . — The nature 
of the posts , method of recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters 
connected therewith shall be as specified in columns to 12 of the aforesaid 
Schedule : 

Provided that the age Umits specified in column 6 of the said schedule may be 
relaxed in the case of ( a ) Government Servants . (b ) candidates belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other categories of persons in accordance 
with the general instructions issued by the Central Government from time to time. 

Provided further that the educational and other qualifications specifed in column 
7 of the said Schedule may be relaxed at the discretion of the Union Public Service 
Commission in the case of candidates otherwise qualified . 

5 . Probation . All persons appointed whether hy direct recruitment or otherwise 
to the posts specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule shall be on probation 
for a period of two years which may be extended at the discretion of the appointing 
authority . 

6 . Disqualification . ( a ) No person who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is vold by 
reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse . shall be eligible for 
appointment to service ; and 

(b ) no woman whose marriage is void by rcason of the husband having a wife 
living at the time of such marriage or who has married a person who has a wife 
Uving at the time of such marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to service . 

Provided that the Central Government may , If satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the operation of this rule . 


SCHEDULE 


Src.8(i)] 


Serial Name of Post 


Classifi- 

cation 


Scale 

pay 


of 


Whether Age 
selection limit 
post or for Educational and 

non - direct other qualifications 
selec - recruits required for direct 
tion 

recruits 


No. 


post 


Whether Method of In case of If Dep . Circums 

age & recruitment recruitment artmental tances in 
educa - whether by by promotion Promo- which Union 

cional direct recruit - transfer grades tion Public Ser 
qualifi - ment or trans- from which pro - Com vice Com 
cations fer and per - motion to be mittee mission is 
prescri - centage of the made exists to be con 
bed for vacancies to 

what is sulted in 
direct be filled by 

its com - making re 
recruits various me 

position cruitment 
will ap thods 

ply in 
the case 
of Pro 
motees 


IO 


II 


IZ 


12 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL13,1963/CHAITRA29,1885 


50 yos. 


Rs. 
I. Regional Officer General 1300 

Central Board Central 160 - 100 
of Film Censors. Service 1800 . 

Class I. 


Not 
appli 
cable , 


By transfer/ 
deputation 
failing which 
by direct 
recruitment. 


Not 
appli 
cable , 


As required 
under the 
rules , 


Transfer /Depu - 
Suitable officer 
of All 
India or Cen 
tral Service 
Class I . 


Essential : 

Not 
(1) Degree of a re - appli 
cognised Univer - cable , 

sity . 
( 8 ) Sound knowle 
idge of an Indian 

language (which 
may be specified) 
and its literature . 
( ) Sound know 
ledge of Indian 
History and Cul 
ture of India (Evi 
dence to be furni 
shed ), 
(iv ) Adequate ad 
ministrative or 
managerial experi 
coce , 


659 


660 


Qualifications re 
laxable at Com 
mission s discretion 
in the case of an 
didates otherwise 
well qualified . 
Desirable - 
© Knowledge of 
Hindi and other 
Indian languages 
(Candidates pos 
sessing knowledge of 
a number of lan 
guages will be pre 
ferred ). 
(11) Knowledge of 

current affairs and 
contemporary tho 
ught. 
(m ) Experience in 
journalism with 
special reference 
to films. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIAAPRIL19,1963/CHAITRA29,1885 


Do. 


1100 – 50 — 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


1400 , 


2. Additional Re- 

gional Officer, 
Central Board 
of Film Cen 
SOTS . 


Do 


45 yrs . Essennal : 

(9) Degree of a re - 
cognised Univer 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


sity 


3 . Assistant Re- General 59030 

gional Officer Central 830 — 35 — 
Secretary to Service 900 
Chairman Cen - Class II 
tral Board of Gazetted 
Film Censors . (Non 

Minis 
terial). 


Transfer Depu - 
tation : Suita 
ble officer of 
Central Service 
Class II . 


(u ) Sound knowle 

dge of an Indian 
language (which 
may be specified ) 
and its literature . 
(H ) Adequate know 
ledge of current 
affairs , Indian 
History and Cul 
ture of India 


[PartII 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


12 


12 


SEC.8(1)] 


of 


( 10 ) Administrative 
experience of 
running an office 
and controlling es 
tablishments either 
in Goverment 
service for in pri 
vate concern of 
repute (for the post 

Secretary 
to Chairman ). 1 
Qualifications IC 
laxable at Com 
mission s discretion 
in the case of can 
didates otserwise 
well qualified . " 
Desirable : 
Kaowledge of Hindi 
and other Indian 
languages ( candidates 
possessing know 
ledge of augnber of 
languages will be 
preferred ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL13.1963/CHAITRA28,1883 


[No. F . 2/34 /58 - FC ).] 
S . PADMANABHAN , Under Secy. 


661 


662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF MINES AND FUEL 

New Delhi, the 5th April 1963 
G . S . R . 626. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1982 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following rules, namely :- - 

1. Short title. These rules may be called the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition 
of Right of User in Land ) Rules , 1963 . 
2 . Definitions . In these rules : 
( a ) " Act” means the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User In 

Land ) Act , 1962 ; 
( b ) " section " means a section of the Act. 
3 . Publication of Notification under section 3 , — ( 1 ) Every notification under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 shall contain a description of the land sufficient to identify 
the same specifying , wherever possible , the numbers in a settlement of record or 
gurvey of such land , 

( 2 ) The substance of the notification referred to in sub -rule ( 1) shall bo 
published 

( a ) by beat of drum in the neighbourhood of the land the right of user in 

which is to be acquired ; and 
( b ) by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in the locality in which 

such land is situated . 
( 3 ) A copy of such notification shall be served in the manner laid down in 
rule 8 on every person who has been shown in the relevant revenue records as 
the owner of the land on the date of publication of the notification under sub -rule 
( 1 ) or who, in the opinion of the competent authority , is the owner of , or interested 
in , such land , 

4 . Filing of claims for compensation . - Any person Interested in any land may 
Ale before the competent authority a claim for compensation 

( a ) for damages sustained by that person by reason of the exercise of the 

powers conferred by section 4 
(i ) in case the right of user in the land has not been acquired , within 

sixty days from the date on which the notification under sub -section 

( 1 ) of the section 3 ceased to have effect , or 
( 11) In case the right of user in the land has been acquired , within sixty 

days from the date of publication of the declaration under sub 

section ( 1 ) of section 6 ; 
(b ) for damages sustained by that person by reason of the exercise of the 

powers conferred by section 7 , within sixty days from the date 
of termination of the operations referred to in clause ( 1) of sub - section 

( 1 ) of that section ; 
( c ) for damages sustained by that person by reason of the exercise of the 

powers conferred by section 8 , within sixty days from the date of ter 

mination of the operations referred to in that section ; 
( d ) under sub - section ( 4 ) of section 10 , within sixty days from the date of 

publication of the declaration under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 6 : 


Provided that the competent authority may admit any claim within 30 days 
after the expiry of the period speciAed in this sub -rule , if he is satisfied that the 
applicant had sufficient cause for not making the application within such specified 
periods. 


Explanation . — The expression " the date of termination of operations " with 
reference to any area means 
(a ) for the purposes of clause ( b ), the date of completion of works connected 

with the laying of pipelines in that area ; 


SEC. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 / CIIAITRA 23, 1845 


663 


(b ) for the purposes of clause ( c ) , the date of completion of all, or any of, 

the works referred to in section 8 in relation to the pipelines laid in 
that area ; 


which the competent authority may notify in the official Gazette and by beat of 
drum in the locality, in consultation with the party in whom the right of user in 
the land in that area has vested or ownership of the pipelines laid in that area 
vests , as the case may be. 


( 2 ) The claim for compensation shall be made in such form as the competent 
authority may specify in this behalf . 


( 3 ) The competent authority shall, on receipt of the claim for compensation , 
make such Inquiry as it deems At and Ax the compensation and thereafter inform 
the parties referred to in sub - sections ( 2 ) and (5 ) of section 10 of the amount of 
compensation so fixed . 


5 . Application to the District Judge for determination of compensation . Any 
party aggrieved by the determination of the amount of compensation may prcfer 
an application to the District Judge within the limits of whose jurisdiction the 
land or any part thereof is situated , not later than 90 days of the receipt of the 
intimation from the competent authority under rule 4 . 


6 . Deposit of compensation under section 11 . - The Central Government, the 
State Government or the Corporation , as the case may be, shall, within 21 days 
of the receipt of the Intimation under rule 4 deposit the compensation amount in 
such treasury and under such head of account as may be specified therein in that 
behalf . 


7. Notice to claimants and reference of dispute to the District Judge . - ( 1 ) Where 
several persons claim to be interested in the amount of compensation deposited 
under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 and the competent authority has determined 
under sub - section ( 4 ) of that section , the persons who in its opinion are entitled 
to receive the compensation and the amount to be paid to each of them , it shall 
send intimation thereof to all the persons who have preferred claims for compen 
sation . 


( 2 ) If any of the persons referred to in sub -rule ( 1 ) does not accept the decision 
of the competent authority , he shall, within a period of 30 days of the receipt 
of such intimation inform the competent authority in writing to that effect. 


( 3 ) If on receipt of intimation under sub -rule ( 2 ) or otherwise , the competent 
authority is of the opinion that a dispute regarding the payment of the compensa 
tion amount exists, it shall refer the dispute to the District Judge under sub 
section (5 ) of section 11 . 

8 . Mode of service of notice , etc . - ( 1 ) Any notice or letter issued or any order 
pagged may be served by delivering or tendering a copy of such notice , letter or 
order , as the case may be, to the person for whom it is intended or to any adult 
member of his family or by sending it by registered post acknowledgement due 
addressed to that person at his usual or last known place of residence or business . 

( 2 ) Where the serving officer delivers or tenders the copy of the notice , letter 
or order under sub -rule ( 1 ) , he shall require the signature of the person to whom 
the copy is so delivered or tendered to an acknowledgement of service endorsed 
on the original . 

( 3 ) Where the person or the adult member of the family of such person refuses 
to sign the acknowledgement, or where the serving officer , after using all due and 
reasonable diligence , cannot find such person and there is no adult member of 
the family of such person , the serving officer shall affix a copy of the notice , letter 
or order on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the ordinary residence 
or usual place of business of such person and then shall return the original to 
the competent authority who issued the notice , letter or order , as the case may 
be, with a report endorsed thereon or annexed thereto stating that he has so 
affixed a copy, the circumstances under which he did so and the name and address 
of the person . If any , by whom the usual or last known place of residence of 
business , as the case may be , was identified and in whose presence the copy was 
affixed . 


664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1968 / CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II 


( 4 ) Where the person to be served with the notice, letter or order is a minor 
or a person of unsound mind , the notice , letter or order shall be served in the 
aforesaid manner , on the guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind , as 
the case may be. 

[ No. 31 / 28 / 82- ONG .] 
B . SUBBA RAO , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1963 
G . S .R . 627 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following amendments in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No, F . 23 - 2 / 62 - IH 
dated the 12 / 15th November , 1962 , namely : 


In the Schedule to the said notification , against item 4 , in column ( 2 ) , for 

the words " the Port of Madras" , the words " the ports of Madras and 
Mandapam / Dhanushkodl" shall be substituted . 


[No. F . 14 - 1- / 63 - IH .] 


BASHESHAR NATH , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 


ERRATA 


The date of the notification No. 62 - TT / V / 29 / 32 of the Ministry of Railways. 
published in the Gazette of India , Part II - - Section 3 ( 1) , dated 9th March , 1963 as 
GS. R . 411 on page 381 , may be read as " 23rd February , 1963 " in place of “ 22nd 
February , 1963" , 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

(Departmont of Company Law Administration ) 
THE COMPANIES (CENTRAL GOVERNMENT S ) GENERAL RULES AND FORMS 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 
G . S . R . 828 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses ( a ) and (b ) of 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 642 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes , with effect from the 15th April , 1963, the following 
rules further to amend the Companies (Central Government s ) General Rules and 
Forms, 1956 , namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Companies (Central Government s ) General 
Rules and Forms ( Second Amendment) Rules, 1963. 

2. In rule 20 of the Companies (Central Government s ) General Rules and 
Forms, 1956, for the abbreviation and Agures " Rs. 25 " , the abbreviation and figures 
" Rs. 30 " shall be substituted . 

[ No. F . 10 /10 /63 -PR .] 


ALTERATIONS TO SCHEDULE X TO THE COMPANIES ACT 
G . Ş .R . 629. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
041 of the Companies Act , 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby makes, 


Sec. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


665 


with effect from the 15th April, 1963 the following further alterations in Schedule 
X to the said Act, namely : 

In the said Schedule 

( i) under the heading " I, In respect of a company having a share capital" , for 
Items 5 and 6 and the entrles relating thereto , the following items and entries shall 
respectively be substituted , namely : 

" 5 . For Aling , registering or recording any document by this Act required or 
authorised to be filed , registered or recorded other than 
( i) the memorandum or the abstract required to be filled with the Registrar 

by a receiver, or 
( ii) the statement or return required to be filed with the Registrar under 

sections 497 , 509 and 551 by the liquidator in a winding up , — 
( a ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 

capital of less than Rs. 1 ,00, 000, a fee 
of 


Rs. 7. 50 


( b ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 

capital of Rs. 1 , 00 , 000 or more but less than 
Rs. 5 ,00 ,000 , a fee of 

Rs. 15 . 00 
( c ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 

capital of Rs. 5 , 00, 000 or more but less than 
Rs. 25 ,00 ,000 , a fee of 

Rs. 25 . 00 
( d ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 
capital of Rs. 25 ,00 , 000 or more, a fee of 

.. Rs. 30 . 00 
6 . For making a record of or registering any fact by this Act required or 
authorised to be recorded or registered by the Registrar, 
( a ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 
capital of less than Rs. 1,00 ,000 , a fee of 

. . Rs. 7 . 50 
( b ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 

capital of Rs. 1, 00 ,000 or more but less than 
Rs. 5 ,00 ,000 , a fee of 

. . Rs. 15 . 00 
( c ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 

capital of Rs. 5 , 00, 000 or more but less than 
Rs. 25, 00 , 000, a fee of 

Rs. 25 . 00 
( d ) in respect of a company having a nominal share 
capital of Rs. 25 ,00 ,000 or more , a fee of 

Rs. 30 . 00 " ; 


and 


( ii) under the heading " II, In respect of a company not having a share capital" , 
in item 13 and the entry relating thereto , for clause ( b ) , the following clause shall 
be substituted , namely : 
" ( b ) the statement or return required to be fled with the Registrar under 
sections 497, 509 and 551 by the liquidator in a winding up ," . 

[No. F . 10 / 10 / 63-PR . ) 
F . N . SANYAL , Under Secy . 


(Department of International Trade ) 

COFFEE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 
G . S . R . 630 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 48 of the Coffee 
Act, 1942 ( 7 of 1942 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Coffee Rules , 1955 , published with the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O , 1866 , 
dated the 1st August, 1955, namely : 


666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 28 , 1885 


[Part N 


1 . These rules may be called the Coffee ( Second ) Amendment Rules, 1963 . 

2 . In the Coffee Rules, 1955 , in the proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ) , of rule 35 after the 
words " National Savings Certificates " , the words " or National Defence Certi 
ficates ” , shall be inserted . 

[No. F . 2 (3 ) - Plant ( B ) / 63. ] 


TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 3rd April 1963 
G . S . R . 631 . — The following amendment to the Tea Board Bye- Laws, 1955 made 
by the Tea Board in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
50 of the Tea Act , 1953 ( 29 of 1953 ) , is hereby published for general information , 
the same having been confirmed by the Central Government as required by sub 
section ( 2 ) of the said section , namely : 

For By-law 30 of the Tea Board By- laws, 1955, the following by -law shall be 
substituted , namely S 
" 30 . Retirement; 
( 1 ) All employees of the Board , excepting employees holding posts carrying 

a pay or scale of pay, the maximum of which does not exceed Rs. 110 
per month , shall retire from the service of the Board at the age of 58 . 

Provided that , without prejudice to the powers of the Board to 
require an employee of the Board who has completed 30 years of 
qualifying service to retire the appointing authority may require an 
employee of the Board to retire after he attains the age of 55 years on 
3 months notice without assigning any reason . 

Provided further that an employee of the Board may after attain 
ing the age of 55 years voluntarily retire after giving 3 months notice 
to the appointing authority . 

Provided also that scientiflc and technical personnel of the Board 
may be given extensions of service beyond the age of 58 years subject 

to thelr Atness and suitability for work . 
( 2 ) Employees of the Board holding posts carrying a pay or scale of pay 

the maximum of which does not exceed Rs . 110 per month , shall retire 

at the age of 60 and no extension shall be granted ." 
2 . This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 
the 1st December , 1962 , 

[ No. 8 (15) Plant (A ) / 62.] 


COFFRE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1963 
G . S .R . 632 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 48 of the Coffee 
Act , 1942 ( 7 of 1942 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Coffee Rules , 1955 , published with the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No , S . R . O . 1666 , 
dated the 1st August , 1955 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Coffee ( Third Amendment) Rules , 1963 . 
2 . In the First Schedule to the Coffee Rules, 1955 , -- 

( a ) in Form A , the words " or Imperial Bushels " shall be omitted 
(b ) in Form F , 

(1) the words " bushels, candies " shall be omitted . 
( 11) for the abbreviation " kilos " , the abbreviation " kg" shall be substi 

tuted 


Sec. 9(1)] 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963/ CHAITRA 23 , 1385 


667 


(c ) in Form F .1, 

(i) the words "bushels , candies " shall be omitted . 
( ii) for the abbreviation " kilos" , the abbreviation " kg" shall be substi 

tuted. 
(iii ) in the Foot note No. I ( a ) , for the words " Arabica acreage" the words 

" area under Arabica " shall be substituted , 
(iv ) in the Foot note No. I (b ) , for the words " Robusta acreage” the words 

" area under Robusta " shall be substituted . 
( d ) in Form G , -- 
(i ) the words " Imperial ushels " wherevcr they occur except in the place 

where they occur for the second time shall be omitted . 
( ii) for the words " struck Imperial Bushels" , the - words " struck forty 

litre units or kilograms" shall be substituted . 
( e ) in Form H , 
(i) for the abbreviation " kilos" wherever it occurs , the abbreviation " kg" 

shall be substituted , 
(ii) in Note 1, for the words “ yield per acre" , the words " yield per 

hectare /acre" shall be substituted . 
( f) in Form I, item 4, for the word " acreage ", the word " area " shall be 
substituted . 

[NO. F . 2 ( 5 ) Plant ( B ) /62 .] 
B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 
G . S . R . 633. -- Ess . Com . (5 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 
of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the powers conferred on it by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of 
the said Act to provide for the matters specified in sub - section ( 2 ) thereof shall, in 
relation to salt, which is an item of foodstuft under sub - clause ( v ) of clause ( a ) 
of section 2 of the said Act , bc exercisable also by the Lieutenant Governor of 
Goa, Daman and Diu in the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu , subject to the 
conditions that : 
( a ) before making any Order relating to any matter specified in clauses, 

( a ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( f) of sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section 3 , the 
Lieutenant Governor shall obtain the concurrence of the Central 

Government; and 
( b ) no order made in exercisc of the aforesaid powers shall have effect so 

as to prohibit or restrict the export of salt from any place in that 
Union territory to any place outside India , 

[No . 9/ 1/ 63 -Salt.] 
D . N . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under/ Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1963 
G . S .R . 634 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
method of recruitment to the post of Statistical Assistant Silviculturist in the 
Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehra Dun , namely : 


668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 /CHAITRA 28, 1885 


[PART II 


1. Short title . These rules may be called the Forest Research Institute and 
Colleges , Dehra Dun ( Statistical Assistant Şilviculturist ) Recruitment Rules, 1963 . 

2. Application — These rules shall apply to the post of Statistical Assistant 
Silviculturist in the Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehra Dun . 

3 . Namber . Classification and Scales of pay .-- The number of the said post. Its 
classification and the scale of pay attached thereto shall be specified in columns 
2 to 4 of the Schedule annexed to these rules , 

4 . Method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications. The method of 
recruitment to the said post, age limit, qualifications for recruitment and other 
matters relating thereto shall be as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule 
aforesaid , 

5 . Disqualifications. - ( a ) No person , who has more than one wife living or who 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason of its taking place during the life - time of such spouse , shall be cligible 
for appointment to the said post; and 

(b ) No woman , whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a wife 
living at the time of such marriage or who has married a person who has a wife 
living at the time of such marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to the said 
post. 

6 . Power to relax . - Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it 
1s necessary or expedient so to do , it may by order, for reasons to be recorded in 
writing , relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or 
category of persons. 


THE SCHEDULE 
Rectatment Rules for the post of Storistical Assistant Silviculturist in Ministry of Food & Agriculture, ( Forest Research Institute & Colleges,Dehra Dun ) 


Sec.3(1)] 


Name of 

post 


No. of Classif - 
posts cation 


Scale of pay 


Whether Age 
selection limit 
post or for 

non - direct 
selection recruits 

post 


Educational and other Whether Period Method In case of If a Circums 
qualifications required age & of pro - of rectt. rectt. by pro - DPC tance in 
for direct recruits educa - bation , whether motion trans - exists which 

tional ifany by direct fer, grades what is UPSC 
qualiti 

recruit - from which its com - to be 
cations 

ment or promotion position consulted 
prescri by promo- to be made 

in making 
bed fol tion or 

rectt . 
the 

transfer & 
direct 

percentage 
recruits 

of the 

vacancies 
apply 

to be 
in the 

filled by 
case of 

various 
promo 

methods 
tees 


will 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL19,1963/CHAITRA28,1885 


1 


I 


2 


3 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


One 


No. 2 years 


Statistical 

Assistant 
Silvicul 
turist 


G . C . S . Rs. 350 - 25 - 
Class II 500 - 30 - 590 
(Non EB - 30 - 800 
ministeri - EB - 30 - 830 
aill ) 

35 - 900 . 


Class II As re 
DPC quired 

under 
the rules . 


Selection 35 yrs. Essential : 

and 0 Degree (with Mathe 
below matics or Statistics as a 
( relax - subject of Study) of a 
able for recognised University , 
Govt, 
servants ) (6 ) About 3 years expe 

rience in a responsible 
position , in laying out 
sample plots , collection 1 
of forest mensuration 
data and collections re 
quired in connection 
with compilation of 
vohomeand yield tables 


By pro - Promotion 
motion (1) Research 
failing Assistant 
which by Grade I 
direct re 
cruitment ( i ) Forest 

Ranger with 
5 years ser 
vice in the 
grade. 


669 


670 


Qualifications relaxableat 

Commission s discre 
tion in case of candidates 

otherwise well qualified . 
Desirable : 
(1) Degree or Diploma in 

Forestry , or a forest 

Rangers Certificate . 
( ii ) Trainingin Statistics 

at a recognised Statisti 
cal Institute . 


[ No. F . 37 - 10 ( i ) /62 - F . ) 
T . S. KRISHNAMURTI, Dy . Secy . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL19,1963/CHAITRA29,1885 


[PARTII 


SIC MO ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 / CHAITRA 28, 1895 


671 


(Department of Food ) 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1963 
G . S . R . 436 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 41 of the Warehous 
ing Corporations Act, 1962 (58 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules, namely : 


CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 
1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Central Warehousing Corporation 
Rules, 1963 


2 . Definitions. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires , 

( a ) " Act " means the Warehousing Corporations Act, 1902 , (58 of 1962 ) ; 
( b ) " Board " means the board of directors referred to in sectiun 6 ; 
( c ) " Chairman " means the Chairman of the Board appointed under sub 

section ( 4 ) of section 7 ; 
( d ) " Corporation " means the Central Warehousing Corporation established 

under section 3 ; 
( e ) " director " means a director of the Board ; 
( 1) " Executive Committee " means the Executive Committee of the Corpora 

tion constituted under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 12 , 
( 8 ) " Fcrm " means a form appended to these rules ; 
( h ) " General Fund ” means the General Fund referred to in sections 15 and 17 ; 
( 1) "managing director " means the managing director of the Corporation ; 
(j) " register" means the register of shareholders referred to in rule 19 ; 
( k ) " section " means a section of the Act; 
(1) " Warehousing Fund " means the Central Warehousing Fund referred to 

in secticas 15 and 16 . 


CHAPTER II 


NOMINATION AND ELECTION OF DIRECTORS AND APPOINTMENT OF FINANCIAL ADVISER, 

3 . Nomination of directors . -- - The Central Government shall nominate the fol 
lowing persons as directors under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7, 
namely : 
( i) the Secretary , Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of Food ) , 

Government of India . 
(11 ) a representative of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department 

of Agriculture ) , Government of India . 
( lil ) a representative of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expendi 

ture) , Government of India . 
( lv ) a representative of the Ministry of Community Development, Panchayati 

Raj and Co -operation (Department of Co-operation ), Government of 

India . 
(v ) the Director General of Food , Ministry of Food and Agriculture (De 

partment of Food ) , Government of India . 
(vi) a non -oficial. 


4 . Torm of atteo of directors and miling of casual vacancies among dirootors . 
( 1 ) The term of office of the non - ci Hicial director nominated under clause ( vi ) of 
rule 3 shall be two years from the date nt is nomination as such director , 


( 2 ) The term of once of a director nominated by the Central Government under 
the proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 , for the first constitution of the Board 
chall be two years : 


672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15 , 1963 /CHAITRA 25, 1885 


[PART Il 


Provided that the Central Government may extend the term of office of such 
director for a further period not exceeding one year, 

( 3 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 , a director elected 
under clause ( a ) , clause ( e ) or clausę ( f ) of that sub - section , shall hold office for 
a period of two years from the date of his election as such director or until a 
successor is elected in his place , whichever is later , 

( 4 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - rule ( 7 ) a casual vacancy in the office of 
director shall be Alled by election or nomination by the authority competent to 
elect or nominate and a director so elected or nominated shall hold office for 30 
long until as the director whose place he Alls, would have been entitled to hold 
office if the vacancy had not occurred : 

Provided that no casual vacancy occurring within three months of the date of 
expiry of the normal term of office of a director shall be filled under this sub -rule . 

( 5 ) A non - official director nominated under clause (vi) of rule 3 may resign 
his office by writing under his hand addressed to the Central Government and 
such resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the 
Central Government or on the expiry of a period of one month from the date of 
Its recelpt by the Central Government, whichever is earlier . 

(8 ) An elected director may resign his office by writing under his hand ad 
dressed to the Chairman and such resignation shall be effective from the date on 
which it is accepted by the Chairman or on the expiry of a period of one month 
from the date of its receipt by the Chairman , whichever 18 earlier , 

( 7 ) A casual vacancy occurring amongst the directors nominated by the Central 
Government for the first constitution of the Board in pursuance of the proviso to 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 shall be Alled by the Central Government. 

5 . Election of dirootors to Executive Committoo. — The Board shall elect from 
among themselves two directors one of whom shall be from among the three 
directors referred to in clauses (d ) , ( e ) and (1 ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7. 

6 . Resignation of non -ofclal members of the Executive Committee . - - A non 
official member of the Executive Committee may resign his office as such member 
by intimation in writing under his hand addressed to the Chairman who shall place 
it before the Executive Committee and such resignation shall be effective from 
the date on which it is accepted by the Executive Committee or on the expiry of 
a period of one month from the date of its receipt by the Chairman , whichever ig 
earlier . 


1 . Sub -Committees . The Board may appoint as many sub - committees from 
among its directors as it may deem necessary for the efficient performance of its 
functions. 

8 . Filling of vacancies . - - Any vacancy arising among directors elected in pursu 
ance of clauses ( d ) , ( e ) and ( 1 ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 shall be Alled 
within three months from the date when such vacancy occurs . 

9 . Nomination of candidates for directorship . - ( 1 ) No candidate for election as 
a director shall be validiy nominated unless : 

( a ) he is, on the last date for receipt of nomination , not disqualified to be 
A director under section 8 ; 


(b ) he is nominated by a shareholder of the class of holders in respect of 

which the election is to be held ; 


(c ) the nomination is in writing signed by a duly authorised representative 

of the shareholder ; 


( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything in sub - rule ( 1 ) , a nomination may also be made 
by a resolution passed by the Board of Directors, managing committee or govern 
ing body , as the case may be, of the shareholding Institution on whom the manage 
ment of the affairs of the Institution is vested and where a nomination is so 
made, a copy of the resolution certified to be a true copy by the Presiding Officer 
of the Board of Directors, managing committee or governing body , shall be for 
warded to the Head Omce of the Corporation , whereupon such copy shall be 
deemed to be a nomination duly made under this rule . 


Sec . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1968 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


73 


( 3 ) No nomination shall be valid unless it is received in the Head Office of the 
Corporation not less than fourteen days before the date fixed for the election , 


10 . Publication of list of candidates for diroctorship . - ( 1 ) On the first working 
day following the last date fixed for the recelpt of nomination papers , the Chair 
man shall take the same into consideration . He shall, after such enquiry , if any, 
as he thinks necessary , accept or reject the nomination of any candidate . Any 
persons aggrieved by the decision of the Chairman , may, within seven days of the 
orders of the Chairman , accepting or rejecting the nomination of any candidate , 
appeal to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall be final. 


( 2 ) If the number of valid nominations for any category is equal to the number 
of vacancies to be Alled in that category , the candidate or candidates so nominated 
shall be declared to be duly elected and the meeting of the shareholders called for 
the purpose may be cancelled . 


( 3 ) If the number of valid nominations for any category exceeds the number 
of vacancies to be Alled in that category, the Chairman shall cause the names and 
addresses of the candidates validly nominated to be published in the Gazette of 
India and in at least three news papers in India , 


11. Preparation of list of shareholders. — ( 1 ) For the purpose of election of a 
director under clausę ( d ) , clause ( m ) or clause ( 1 ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 , 
a separate list of shareholders of each class shall be prepared at least four weeks 
before the date of the meeting at which the election is to be held and the share 
holders of each class shall be eligible to vote in the election of director represent 
ing their class only . 


( 2 ) Every such list shall be made available for purchase at a price of Afty 
Naye Paise for each copy on application at the Head Office of the Corporation , 


( 3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - rule ( 1 ) no shareholder shall 
be entitled to vote at any meeting held for the purpose of election of directors it 
at the time of election he has not paid all calls or other sums due from him in 
respect of any shares registered in his name of the Corporation has exercised any 
right of lien on such shares . 

12 . Particulars relating to vacancy to be specified and manner of election . 
( 1 ) Where at any meeting an election is to be held , the particulars relating to the 
vacancy shall be specified in the notice conyening the meeting and separate 
mectings may be convened of different classes of shareholders mentioned in clauses 
( d ), ( e ) and ( f) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7. 

( 2 ) Every election of directors shall be conducted by vote by balot: 

Provided that where at any meeting such election is to be held iſ a majority 
of the sharcholders present at the meeting desire that the election may be con 
ducted by show of hands , the authority presiding at that meeting shall permit 
the election to be conducted accordingly . 


( 3 ) Every shareholder who is entitled to vote, shall have one vote . 


( 4 ) Votes may be given either personally or by proxies; a proxy shall be 
appointed in writing under the hand of the appointer, or if such appointer is a 
corporation under their common seal. No person shall be appointed a proxy 
who is not a shareholder and the instrument appointing him shall be delivered 
to the authority presiding at the meeting suffciently early before the actual con 
duct of elections. 


(5 ) The decisions of the authority presiding at the meeting at which an 
election is to be held as respects eligibility of any shareholder to vote , shall be 
final. 


13 . Publlation of names of directors elected . The names and addresses of the 
directors declared duly elected shall be published in the Gazette of India . 


14 . Appointment of Financial Adviser . - The Board shall appoint, with the 
approval of the Central Government, a Financial Adviser to advise the Corpora 
tion on all matters relating to revenue and expenditure . 


674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 28, 1888 


[PART II 


CHAPTER III 

SHARES OF THE CORPORATION 
15 , Shares to be morable property . The shares of the Corporation shall be 
novable property . 

18 . The shares to be under tho control of the Board Subject to the provisions 
of the Act and these rules , the shares of the Corporation shall be under the 
control of the Board. 

17 . Conditions of first allotmont of shares . - - ( 1 ) The first allotment or shares 
shall be made by the Board in accordance with the provisions of section 4 to applb 
cants who are qualified to be r - gistered as shareholders of the Corporation . 

( 2 ) The Board may make allotments to the applicants for shares either in 
full, or in part, depending on the number of applirants from the class of share 
holders concerned . The Board , shall, 33 far as practicable , mak » full allotment 
in respect of application for smaller number of shares so that there may be as 
many shareholders of that class as possible . 

( 3 ) The decision of the Board as to whether in a particular application for 
shares there shall be full , partial or no allotment shall be final. 

18 . Joint holding of sharos. — The Corporation shall not recognize the joint 
holding of shares . 

19, Share Register , — ( 1 ) The Corporation shall maintain at its Head Omico a 
register of shareholders qualified under the Act to be regist red therein and shall 
enter therein the following particulars, namely : 
( a ) the name and address at which each shareholder has his principal place 

of business; 
(b ) the categories specified in sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 under which the 

shareholder is qualified to be so regist red : 
( c ) the date on which each person is entered as a shareholder , the manner 

in which he acquires the share and , except in the case of first allot 

ment, the name of the previous holder : 
( d ) the date on which each person ceases to be & shareholder and the name 

of the person to whom and the ledger to which the share is trans 

ferred , 
( 2 ) In the register , a separate ledger shall be maintained in respect of each of 
the categories of shareholders referred to in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 , 

20. Ingpection of Register . - ( 1 ) The register, except when closed under rule 
21, shall be open to inspection by any shareholder , free of charge, at the Head 
Office of the Corporation during busin ss hours, subject to such reasonable 
restrictions as the Corporation may impose, so however that not less than two 
hours in each day may be allowed for inspection . 

( 2 ) A shareholder shall not have the right to make a copy of any entry in 
the register by himg- 1f, but may , except when the register is closed under rulo 
21, require a copy ot the register or any part thereof, on pre -payment therefor 
at the rate of fifty Naye Paige for every one hundr. d words or fractional part 
thereof required to be copied . 

21. Closure of Register. — The Board may, by giving notice by advertisement, 
clogy the register for a period of forty - five days in any year, but not exceeding 
thirty day , at one time, as may be necessary . 

22 . Share Certificato . - ( 1 ) Every share certificate shall be issued under the 
common seal of the Corporation , 


( 2 ) Every share certificate shall specify the number and denote numbers of 
the share in respect of which it is issued and shall be issued within three months 
of the date of application . 

23. Entitlemont to Sharo Certificato . — ( 1 ) The Central Government and the 
State Bank of India shall each be entitled , free of charge , to one certificate for all 
the shares registered in its name at a time. 


SC 9 0 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 675 
- _ 

-- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
( 2 ) Every shareholder other than the Central Government and the State Bank 
of India shall be entitled , free of charge , to one certificat : for each five shares 
registered in its name. If any share solder requires more than one certificate for 
each fiv . shares held by it, the sharchoider shall pay for each additional certificate 
a sum of Re. 1. A shareholder holding less than five shares shall however be 
entitled , free of charge, to one share certificate . and if more than one c : rtificate lg 
required , the shareholder shall pay for each additional certificate a sum of Re. 1. 

24 . Issue of now certificato in place of worn -out, de - faced , eto , certificates. 
( 1 ) If any share certificate is worn -out or defaced or tendered for sub - division , 
then , upon production thereof at the Head Office of the Corporation , the Corpora 
tion may order the same to be canculled and 18sue a new certificate or certificates 
in lieu thereof on payment of a sum of Re. 1 and any incidental expenses which 
the Corporation may have incurred in connection with the issue of the new 
certificate or certificates. 

( 2 ) If any share certificate is alleged to be lost or destroyed then , upon pro 
duction of such evidence of the loss or destruction thereof, as the Board may 
consider satisfactory, and upon such indemnity , with or without security , as tho 
Board may r - quire , a new certifcate in lieu thereof may be given to the party 
entitled to such loss or destroyed certificate , provided that no such certificate shall 
be issued without Arst giving notice to the public published in local newspapers 
and inviting objections, if any , within a week of the notice . Wh re a new 
certificate is issued in lieu of a lost or destroyed certificate , the person to whom 
the new certificate is issued shall be liabl , to pay to the Corporation all expenses 
incidental to the investigation of evidence of loss or destruction and the prepara 
tion of the requisite form of Indemnity as aforesaid , 

25. Corporation to have lien on shares. The Corporation shall have a first 
lien on all shares registered in the name of each shareholder and on the proceeds 
of the sale thereof for its debts , liabilities and engag ments , solely or jointly , with 
any other person to or with the Corporation , whether the period for payment, 
fulfilment or discharge thereof shall have actually arrived or not; and such len 
shall extend to all dividends declared from time to time in respect of such shares. 
Unless otherwise agreed, the registration of a transfer of shares shall operate as 
a waiver of the Corporation s lien , if any , on such shares. 

26 . Shareholders disqualifiod to glve intimation to the Board .---- ( 1 ) It shall be 
the duty of every institution registered as a shar - holder , forthwith , upon ceasing 
to be qualifed to be so registered , to give intimation thereof to the Board. 

( 2 ) The Board may , at any time, cause such enquiry to be mad - as it may 
consider necessary, for ascertaining whether any institution registered as a share 
holder has ceased to be so qualificd and unon being satisfi d about this , it shall 
intimate the share older that the shareholder is not entitled to be a shareholder 
of the Corporation On such intimation , the sharehold : r shall not be entitled to 
the payment of any dividend on any such share or to exercise any of the rights of 
a shareholder otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of such share and the 
Corporation shall make an entry in the register to that effect. 

( 3 ) If the Board Ands that an institution , which is not qualified to be a share 
holder of the Corporation , is registered by inadvertance or otherwise as a share 
tholder of the Corporation , it shall inform such shareholder that the shareholder 19 
not entitled to tne payment of any dividend on such share or to exercise any of 
the rights of a shareholder otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of such 
share and shall make an entry in the register to that effect. 

27. Instalmonts on shares to be duly pald .- - It, by the conditions of allotm -nt of 
any share, the whole or any part of the amount or issuc price thereoť shall be 
payable by insta ments , every such instalment shall, when due, be paid to the 
Corporation by the institution which , for the time being , shall be the registered 
holder of the share. 

28 . Trust not recognis d . - - Save as herein otherwise provided , the Corporation 
shall be entitled to treat the registered holder of any share as the absolute owner 
thereof and accordingly , shall not. except as ordered by a court of competint 
jurisdiction or as by statute required , be bound to recognise any equitable or 
other claim to any interest in such share on the part of any other person , 


29. Callg . — The Board may , from time to time, make such calls as it thinks it, 
upon the shareholders in respect of moneys unpaid on the shares held by them 
respectively and not by the conditions of allotment thereof made payable at fixed 


676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15 , 1963 /CHAITRA 29, 1885 


[PART – 


times and each shareholder shall pay the amount of every call so made on such 
shareholder to the persons and at the times and places appointed by the Board . 

30 . Power of Corporation to ix different call amounts. The Corporation may . 
for reasons to be recorded in writing, fix different amounts to be paid by different 
classes of shareholders on calls made by it and different times of payment of such 
amounts . 

31 . When calls deemed to have beon made. - A call shall be deemed to have 
been made at the time when the resolution of the Board authorising such call was 
passed and a notice of call issued to the shareholders specifying the time and 
place of payment and to whom such call shall be paid . Not less than fifteen days 
time from the date of issue of such notice shall be given to the shareholders for 
such payment. 

32 . Payment of interest on call or instalment. - ( 1 ) If the sum payable in 
respect of any call or instalment is not paid on or before the day appointed for 
payment thereof, the holder for the time being , of the share in respect of which 
the call has been made shall pay interest for the same at the rate of nine per 
cent per annum or at such other rate as the Board may determine, from the day 
appointed for the payment thereof to the date of actual payment. 

( 2) The Board may in its absolute discretion walve payment of interest under 
this rule. 

38 . Evidence in action for call. – At the trial or hearing of any action for the 
recovery of any money due for any call, it shall be sufficient to prove that the 
name of the shareholder sued is entered in the register as a holder , that the 
resolution making the call is duly recorded in the minute book , in pursuance of 
these rules; and it shall not be necessary to prove the constitution of the Board 
which makes such call or any other matter whatsoever , but the proof of the 
matter aforesaid shall be a conclusive evidence of the debt. 

34 . Payment of calls in advance . The Board may , if it thinks At, receive from 
any shareholder willing to advance the same all or any part of the capital due 
upon the shares held by such shareholders beyond the sums actually called for ; and 
upon the amount so paid in advance or so much thereof as from time to time 
exceeds the amount of the calls then made upon the shares in respect of which such 
advance has been made, the Corporation may pay interest at such rate as the 
shareholder paying such gum in advance and the Board may agree upon , 

35 . Payment of allotment money to be deemed as call. — ( 1 ) Any sum which 
by the term of issue of shares becomes payable on allotment shall be dremed to be 
a call duly made and payable on the date on which , by the term of issue, such 
sum becomes payable . 

( 2 ) In case of non - payment of such sum , all the relevant provisions of these 
rules with respect to payment of interest and expenses , forfeiture or otherwise , 
shall apply as it such sum had become payable by virtue of a call duly made and 
notified . 

36 . Notice to be served on defaulting shareholders . - If any shareholder fails 
to pay any call or instalment on or before the day appointed for the payment of 
the same, the Board may at any time thereafter , during such time as the call or 
instalmont remains unpaid , serve a notice on such shareholder requiring the 
shareholder to pay the sum together with any interest that may have accrued 
and all expenses that may have been incurred by the Corporation by reason of 
such non -payment. 

37. Form of notice for payment of call or instalment etc . — The notice for pay 
ment of call or instalment shall name a day and a place or places on and at 
which guch call or instalment and such interest and expenses are to be paid . Such 
notice shall also state that in the event of non - payment at or before the time and 
at the place or places appointed , the shares in respect of which a call was made or 
instalment is payable , will be liable to be forfeited . 


38 . Forfelturo of sharos . - If any notice served under rule 36 is not complied 
with . any shares in respect of which notice has been given may, at any time after 
Servire of the notice but before payment of all calls or instalments , interest and 
expenses, due in respect thereof, be forfeited by a resolution of the Board to that 
erfect. Such forfeiture shall include all dividends declared in respect of the 
forfeited ghares and not actually paid before the forfeiture . 


Sec. 8 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1969 /CHAITRA 23, 188 % 


677 


39 . Shares forfeited to be property of Corporation . Any share forfeited under 
rule 38 shall be deemed to be the property of the Corporation and the Board may 
sell, reallot or otherwise dispose of the same in such manner as it thinks fit , subject 
to the provisions of section 4 . 

40 . Power to annul forfolture. - The Board may , at any time before any shares 
forfeited under rule 38 are sold , reallowed or otherwise disposed of, annul the 
torfeiture thereof upon such conditions as it thinks At . 

41, Payment of arrears .- - Any shareholder whose shares have been forfeited 
under rule 38 shall notwithstanding the forfeiture , be liable to pay all moneys 
inclusive of Interest and expenses owing upon or in respect of such arrears at 
the time of forfeiture together with interest thereon from the date of forfeiture 
until payment at nine per cent per annum . 

42 . Dividend . - ( 1 ) No dividend shall be declared or paid except out of the profits 
of the Corporation or out of moneys provided by the Central Government for pay 
ment of dividend in pursuance of the guarantee given under sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 5 . 


( 2 ) The dividend shall be paid to persons whose names are entered in the 
register at the time of declaration of the dividend . 

( 3 ) The dividend shall be payable in proportion to the amount paid up on each 
share before the expiry of the year for which the dividend is declared : 

Provided that , in the case of shares allotted or calls made in the course of the 
year for which the dividend is declared the dividend shall be payable only in 
proportion to the period of the year from the date of allotment or , as the case may 
be, from the date fixed for payment of call money . 

( 4 ) The dividend shall not bear any interest. 


CHAPTER IV 


MISCELLANEOUS 


43 . Maintenance of and operation upon Bank Accounts and investments . - ( 1 ) . 
Subject to the provisions of this rule , all moneys belonging to the Corporation , 
shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank or the State Bank or any subsidiary of the 
State Bank or in such scheduled Bank or Co - operative Bank as may be approved 
for this purpose by the Central Government to the account of the Corporation . 

( 2 ) All payments by or on behalf of the Corporation shall be made by cheques 
except payment of amounts not exceeding Rs, 500 which may be made in cash 
from the amount of imprest sanctioned for such purposes . 

( 3 ) Such cheques and all orders for making deposits or investments or for 
the withdrawal of amounts for disposal in any other manner from the funds of 
the Corporation , shall be signed by the managing director or by any officer of the 
Corporation authorised by the Board in this behalf, 

(4 ) No payment shall be made out of the accounts of the Corporation unless 
the expenditure is covered by the financial estimate referred to in section 28 : 

Provided that the Executive Committee may , at its discretion , authorise any 
expenditure to be incurred in anticipation of such estimates and the statement 
of expenditure so incurred shall be submitted to the Board at its next meeting : 

Provided further that the Executive Committee may , in respect of any year 
sanction reappropriation from one head of expenditure to another or from a pro 
vision made for one scheme to that for another subject to the condition that such 
Teappropriation shall not exceed ten per cent. of the sanctioned amount under the 
head of expenditure or for that scheme to which the amount is reappropriated 
and a statement of such reappropriation shall be submitted to the Board . 

( 5 ) All monetary transactions shall be entitet in the cash book , as soon as 
they are conducted , and attested by an offer no ho Corporation duly authorised 
by the managing director in this beholl. The morn book shall be closed daily and 
completely checked by the managing diterton ne the officer Authorised by him in 
this behalf . At the end of each month , the managing director or the officer 80 


678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 / CHAITRA 23, 1888 


Part II 


authorised, shall verify the cash book and the cash in hand and record a signed 
and dated certificate to that effect. 

( 6 ) All payments by the Corporation shall be made on bills or other documenta 
duly prepared and passed by the managing director or other officer authorised in 
this behalf . The paid vouchers shall be stamped " paid " or " cancelled " so that they 
cannot be used a second time. They should then be kept serially numbered and 
produced at the time of audit. 

44 . Deposit in Bank or Inyostment in securities of surplus funds. ( 1 ) Any 
funds of the Corporation not required for current expenditure may be placed 
in fixed deposit with the Reserve Bank or the State Bank or any subsidiary of 
the State Bank or any scheduled or Cooperative Bank approved in this behalf 
by the Central Government or invested in the name of the Corporation in the 
securities of the Central Government or any State Government. 

( 2 ) The placing of money in fixed deposit and the investment thereof and 
the disposal of money 80 placed or invested shall require the sanction of the 
Exccutive Committee; 

Provided that short- term fixed deposits may be made and withdrawn in 
accordance with the requirements of the Corporation by the managing director, 

45 . Annual Statement of Accounts and Balance Shoot. The Board shall cause 
the books of the Corporation to be balanced on the last working day of the month 
of March in each year and the annual accounts shall be set out as follows : -- 

(a ) an annual account of the Warehousing Fund in Form " A " ; 
(b ) an annual account of the General Fund comprlaing 

(i) a balance she in Form " B " ; 
(li) a pront and loss account for the year in Form 

FORM A 

( See Rule 45 ) 
CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORPORATION 

(Warehousing Fund ) 
Annual Statement of Accounts for the year ended 318t March 19 
- - - - - - - - - -- - - 

- - - - - - - - 

- - 
Receipts 

Payments 


1. Investments, 


1 . Opening Balance . 

Grants received from 
the Central Govern 
ment under section 
16 ( 1 ) ( b ) . 


2 . Loans to 
( A ) State Govern 

ments : 
( i ) under section 16 

( 2 ) ( a ) . 
( tl ) under section 16 

( 2 ) ( b ) . 
(b ) State Warehous 

ing Corporation 


B . Loans received from 

Central Government 
under section 16 ( 1 ) 


3 


( b ) . 


Subsidtes to 
( a ) State Govern 

ments . 
( b ) State Warehoug 

ing Corporation 


Repayment of loans 


by 


4 . Advances. 
6 . Loans repaid to the 

Central Government 


( 1 ) State Govern 

ments : apainat 
loans glven under 
( a ) sertion 10 

( 2 ) ( A ) . 
( b ) snction 10 

( 2 ) ( b ) , 


ac, (18) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1965 / CHAITRA 23 . 1890 


Payments 


- 


- 


Receipts 
- - - -- - 
( i ) State Warehous 

ing Corporations 


0 . Interest paid to the 

Central Government, 


7. Balance on hand . 


Refund against sub 
sidies (unutilised ) 
made to : 


(1 ) State Govern 

ments . 
( il) State Warehous 

Ing Corporations 
Advances repaid . 
Interest on 
(1 ) Loans to Stato 

Governments 
under 
( a ) section 18 

( 2 ) ( 2 ) 
section 10 

( 2 ) ( b ) . 
( fi ) State Warehous 

ing Corporations, 
( ül) Bank Accounts 
Interest on inyent 
menta . 


Miscellaneous receipta 
including moneys and 
other securities trans 
ferred under section 
19 ( 2 ) ( c ) . 


680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1968 /CHAITRA 29, 1885 


[PART II 


FORM 


( $ « 
CENTRAL WAREHOU 


GENBRAL 


Balance Sheet as 


CAPITAL & LIABILITIES 


Previous 
year 
Rs. 


Current 
year 
Ro. 


Amount 

Rs. 


1. Capitak 

i ) Authorised 
( ii ) Issued 
( ii ) Subscribed . 
iv ) Paid up : 

No. of 

Sheres 
( a ) CentralGovernment 
D ) State Bank of India 
c ) Other Scheduled banks . 
(d ) Co-operative Societies 
le ) Insurance Companies in 

cluding Life Insurance 

Corporation of India 
( f) Investment Trugts 

Other financial institutions 
( 1 ) Recognjscd Associations 

dealing in agricultural 

produce etc . 
( ) Companies dealing in 

agricultural produce etc . 


Class in arrears 


i 


2 . Shares Forfeited Account 
3 . Reserve Fund under section 3001) 
4 . Bad and doubtful debts Fund under gec 

tion 30 ( 2 ) . . . 
5 . Other Funds 
6 . Bonds and Debenturcs 
7 . Borrowings from : 
(i) Reserve Bank of India under section 

27 (2 ) (1) 
( ii) State Bank of India under section 


(ii) Central Government under section 


27 (3 ) 


8 . Advances received for purchase of agri 

cultural and notified commodities under 

section JI (e ) 
9 . Liabilities under guarantees by Centſal 

Government per contra : 


(i) Under section 5 ( 1 ) 
ii ) Under section 27 (4 ) 


SEC, 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 /CHAITRA 28, 1885 


681 


B 


NCCCII ( F / ICA . 


ND 


† 31st March 


PROPERTY AN 


SSBTS 


Previous 

Year 


Current 


Year 
Ro. 


Ro. 


1. Fixed Assets : 


( a ) Land 
(0 ) Buildings 
(o Godowns and Warehouses 
(d ) Capital works - in - progress 


2 , Investments. 


a ) Central Government Securities 
(6 ) State Government Securities . 
c) State Warehousing Corporation shares 

Other investments 


3. Guarantees by Government as per contra . 
4 . Value of Dead Stock . . . . 


5 . Advances to State Warehousing Corpora 

tions for purchase of agricultural and noti 
fied commodities under section 24 (d ) 


6 . Estimate value of Stocks held As Agent 

of Government 
7 . Other items 
8 . Cash on hand 
9 . Cash in Banks 


( a ) Reserye Bank of India . 
(6 ) State Bank of India . 
c ) Other Scheduled Banks 
( d ) Co -operative Banks 


10 . Profit and Loss Account 


. 


. 


. 


TọTAL 


682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 15 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


(PART II 


CAPITAL & LIABILITIBA 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


Previous 
year 
Rs. 


Current 
year 
Rs. 


Io . Provision for taxes . 
II , Other liabilities . . 
12 , Suspense 
13 . Other items 
14 . Profit and Loss Account . 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


FORM 


( Sc. 
CENTRAL WAREHOU 

(GENERAL 
Profit and Lou Account for the year 

- 

-- - - - - - 
EXPANDITURE 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Previous 

year 


Current 

Yels 


Ro. 


Re 


1 . Interest on : 

( a ) Loans from the Roari Bank of India . 
( 6 ) Loang from the State Bank of India . 
(c ) Loans from the Central Goveroment . 
d ) Bonds 
@) Debenturos 


- 


2 , Establishment 
3 . Wages 
4. Directors Remuneration, Fecs , Travelling 

Allowances , etc .. 
5 . Rent, Ratce and Textes 
6 . Ingurance 
7. Chemicals consumed : 
& Warehouse Licence Feet , 
9 . Repairs and Maintenance 
Io . Auditors Fecs or Remuneration 
II . Stationery and Printing 
12 . Bank Charges , 
13. Publicity and Propaganda 
14 . Miscellaneous Expenses 
Is . Other Items 
16 . Dcpreciation 

Net Profit ca 


TOTAL 


Suc. 50)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1969 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


683 


PROPERTY AND Assets 


1e 45 ) 
SING CORPORATION 
FUND ) 
anded 31st March , 


INCOME 


Previous 
Year 
Rs. 


Current 
year 
Rs . 


1. Warehousing Charges 
2 . Interest on ; 


. 


. 


( a ) Bank Accounts . . 
(6 ) Loany and Advances . 
(c ) Central Government Securities 
( d ) State Government Securities . 


3. Dividends on Shares held in State Wart 

housing Corporarions . 
4. Other Income,including Agency Comnlsion 


Net Loss cd . 


. 


TOTAL 


684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1983 /CHAITRA 28 , 1888 


(PART II 


EXPÓNDITURE 


Previous 


Year 


Current 

Year 
Rs. 


R .. 


I. Balance As per last Balance Sheet 
2 . Loss for the year bld . 
3 . Reserve for had and doubtful debte Fund . 
4 . Provision for Taxes 
3. Provision for Reserve pund under section 

30 ( I ) . 
6 . Provision for other Funds 
7 . Proposed Dividend 
Net Profit carried to Balance Sheet . . 

TOTAL . 


HV 


Stc. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1983 /CHAITRA 25, 1885 


685 


MU 


INCOME 


Previous 
Yout 
Rs. 


Curren 
Year 


R 


. 


I. Balance as per last Balance Sheet 
2 . Profit for the year bld . 
3. Grants from the Central Governmont 

under section 14 (1)(a ) 
Not Loss carried to Balance Sheet 


TOTAL 


[No . F . 26 /51 /62-SG . II ). 
H . LAL , 
Jt . Secy . 


686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1983 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


(Part 11 


(Dopartment of Agricolturo ) 

ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 1st April 1963 


G . S . R . 636 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order further to amend the Fertilizer (Movement Control) Order , 1900, 
namely : 


1. This Order may be called the Fertilizer (Movement Control) Amendment 
Order, 1963. 

2 . For sub -clause (c ) of clause 2 of the Fertilizer (Movement Control) Orden 
1960 , the following sub - clause shall be substituted , namely : 


" ( c ) " fertilizer" means Sulphate of Ammonia , Urea , Ammonium Sulphate 

Nitrate , Calcium Ammonium Nitrate and any mixture containing any 
one or more of the aforementioned fertilizers." 


[No. F . 27- 9 / 61- MT.) 


G . S . R . 637. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes tho 
following amendments to the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture ) No . G . S . R . 1562, dated 318t 
December, 1960, namely : 

In the said Order , — 
for Schedule -I, the following Schedule shall be substituted, namely : 


" SCHEDULE I 


(1) Sulphate of Ammonia . 
( ii ) Ammonium Sulphate Nitrate . 
( ii ) Urea . 
( iv ) Calcium Ammonium Nitrate . 
( v ) any mixture containing any one or more of the fertilizers mentioned in 

Items ( i) to (iv )." 


[ No. F . 27-3 /61-MT.) 


AMIR RAZA , Jt . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 30th March , 1968 


G . S . R . 638 . The following draft of the Oil Mines Regulations, 1963 , which the 
Central Government proposes to make, in exercise of the powers corterred by 
gection 87 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952 ) , and in supersession of the Indian 
O11 Mines Regulations, 1933 , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
69 of the said Act, for the information of all persons Ukely to be affected thereby : 
and notice is given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 1st August, 1963. 


Opc 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1886 


687 


Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any pergon with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT 


"OIL MINES REGULATIONS, 1969 " 


CHAPTER 1. — PRELIMINARY 


1. Short titlo , extent and application ,ma ( 1 ) Th -se 
the Oil Mines Regulations, 1963. 


regulations may be called 


(2 ) They extend to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kash 
mir . 


( 3 ) They shall apply to every oil mine. 


2 . Definitions. In these Regulations, unless there i anything repugnant in the 
Jubject or context 


( 1) Act means the Mines Act, 1962 ( 35 of 1952 ) ; 


( 2 ) Approved Safety Lamp and Approved Electric Torch mean respec 

tively safety lamp and clectric torch manufactured by such firm and 
of such type as the Chief Inspector may from time to time specify 
by notification in the official gazette : 


( 3 ) Auxiliary Inside Derrick Platform means fixed platform , other than 

the principal or rod board platforms, on which workmen stand to 
handle pipe or other equipment racked in the derrick tower ; 


( 4 ) Back -Up Line means a length of wire rope uscd for holding the 

loverage arm or handle ol a pipe tong while the tong is in use to 
prevent rotation of a longtlı ol pipe onto which another joint of 
threaded pipe is being connected or disconnected ; 


( 5 ) Back -Up Post means a post, column or stanchion to which a back -up 

line is secured ; 


(6 ) Blind mean a Covice, other than a valve uscd for the purpose of pre 

venting the pistage of liquid , gas or vapour through a pipr line os 
nuczlc opcrinr., surh as motal plates juis at - ri in langct joints , blind 
flanges , caps and plugs filted on the ends of pire lincs ; 


( 7 ) Bli- 1 -0nan mong a metal sparer having n opening in the centre which 
- 

s thing i . ligtry Confet! : ils 21 . 1 ued in Manged 
pip joints for the purpos : o flling the print for tha hlind ; 


( 8 ) Bringut ning ; A7 Cinsiy un antiolcllig barse 0 , liquid or 

nii ":17 of or 110 .111 077 A7sul to tho stromyly zr »; 


( 9 ) Blowo, I riyan ini Il a raniral durice , ( sco ibination of 
Jerh il datrice Scrurn to thtop ( I a e 

lnir acluclilil 
valves, ntiinos gu rontrol inchanism connerted theiewith , designed 
to prevent a blowout; 


( 10 ) Breaking Line means 7 pire rope or fihre ropa, one end of which is 

secured to a tone han ile and the other and attached to or wound on 
a mechanical device to impart a pulling power on the tong leverage 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1963/ CHAITRA 23, 1885 


( PART II 


arm or handle to start the unscrewing of a threaded pipe joint or 

drill pipe tool joint; 
( 11 ) Bull Wheel means a mechanical device consisting of a shaft near cach 

end of which a wheel is securely fastened , one of which serves as a 
brake wheel and the other serves as a hoist drum on which to wind 

the standard tool drilling line; 
( 12 ) Call Wheel means a mechanical device consisting of a shaft near 

one end of which a brake wheel is securely fastened . A chain 
driven sprocket is mounted on one side of the brake wheel to serve 

as a hoist for raising or lowering sucker rods in a well ; 
(13 ) Casing Line or Rotary Drilling Line means a wire rope hoisting line 

used for both the standard tool and rotary method of drilling for 
hoisting or lowering pipe in a well ; 


(14) Cathead , unless referred to as " automatic cathead means a spool 

shaped metal mechanical device mounted on the end of a shaft and 

on which a rope is wrapped , 
Explanation . — A rotating cathead imparts a pulling power to the rope that 

is wrapped on it ; 
( 15) Cathead -Automatic or Automatic Cathead means a metal mechani 

cal device consisting of a wheel having a grooved , flanged or flat 
surfaced rim or a spool shaped -drum mounted on a shaft to which 

the end of a wire or fibre rope is attached . 
Bxplanation . A rotating cathead imparts a pulling power to the rope 

attached to it ; 
( 16 ) Cat Line means a rope usually reeved on a crown block sheave in 

a derrick or mast for the primary purpose of lifting and transferring 

materials from one place to another about the derrick or mast floor, 
Explanation . — A rotating cathead imparts the pulling power to the catline 

that is wrapped on it ; 
( 17) Cellar means an excavation around the top joint of casing in a well ; 
(18 ) Check Post means the posts to which the bull wheel and call wheel 

shaft bearings and a draw -works drum and line shaft bearings are 
attached ; 


( 21 ) 


( 19 ) Competent Person in relation to any work or any machinery , plant 

or equipment means a person who has attained the age of 21 yeart 
and who has been duly appointed in writing by the manager as a 
person competent to supervise or perform that work or to supervise 
the portion of that machinery , plant or equipment, and who is res 

ponsible for the duties assigned to him and includes a blaster ; 
( 20 ) Confined Space means a space normally entered by or accessible to 

workpersons and so confined that it can allow accumulation of in 
flammable or noxious vapours or gases; 
Corrosive means an agent which in contact with animal tissue by 
chemical reaction will cause destruction and with which systemic 
effects are either of secondary nature or less pronounced than with 

poison ; 
( 22 ) Crown Block means an assembly of mechanical parts mounted on 

top of derrick tower or mast, consisting of a framework to which 
a number of sheaves are fastened over which hoisting lines are 

rreved ; 
(23 ) Derrick Crown Platform means a continu10118 platform around the 

nut -r sides of the derrick tower at the derrick crowy ; 
( 24 ) Darrinte Gin Pole means a structurel frameworlr erected on top of 

the derrick tower for lifting materials to the top of the drrrick tower ; 
( 25 ) Dorrinks Thor or Mast Ladder means fixed Ladder providing 

eccess to any location in or on the derrick tower or a mast ; 


Spa & 01 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1888 


689 


( 28 ) Derrick , Standard Type or Standard type Derrick means a tower 

either stationary or portable , usud at a drilling well or a producing oil 
or gas well for supporting the Crown block , travelling block and 
hoisting ropes , consisting of 4 legs usually located at the corners of 
a square and having horizontal and diagonal bracing between adja 

cent derricks ; 
Explanation . Such derricks are primarily used for handling pipes and 

sucker rods. 
( 27) Derrick Tower means that part of the derrick above the derrick 

foundation ; 
( 28 ) Derrick Walk means a floored surface over which pipe and other 

drilling or production tools are moved between the pipe storage rack 

and the derrick or the mast ; 
( 29 ) District Magistrate in relation to any mine means the District Magis 

trate of the district in which the mine is situated : 
Provided that in the case of mine which is situated partly in one district 

and partly in another , the district magistrate for the purpose of these 
regulations shall be the District Magistrate authorised in this behalt 

by the Central Government; 
( 30 ) Draw -works means an assembly of power transmission equipment and 

machine parts used in the rotary method of drilling , for hoisting and 
lowering the drill pipe, casing tubing and drilling tools used in # 

well ; 
( 31 ) Driller means an official appointed by the manager in writing to 

perform the duties of a driller under these regulations and any other 
duty in connection with the drilling operations that may be assigned 
to him by the manager ; 


( 32 ) Drilling Includes Redrilling and means digging a hole in earth 

formation with a manually operated or a power driven drill bit for 
the purpose of exploring for or developing of oil or gas and also 
includes those operations that are concerned with the completion of 
a well ; 


( 83 ) Drilling Line means a wire or Abre rope used for the standard tool 

method of drilling, to the end of which the drill stem and bit pro 
attached and operated in the well ; 


( 34 ) Elevator means a metal mechanical device used in connection with 

and guspended from a travelling block or hoisting line to hold pipe 
or sucker rods in suspension when being holsted or lowered in a 
well; 


(35) Enclosed as applied to mechanical guarding means that the moving 

parts are so guarded that physical contact by parts of human body 

is precluded as long as the guard remains in place ; 
Goplanation . This does not prohibit the use of hinged, sliding , or other 

wise removable doors or sections to permit inspection or lubrication , 
( 36 ) Explosive shall have the samemeaning as defined in the Indian Explo 

sives Act, 1884 (4 of 1884 ) ; 
( 37 ) Finger means a timber , metal bar or structural steel shape which 

serves as a restraining support for pipe or other equipment racked in 

a derrick tower or mast ; 
( 38 ) Finger Board means a support for the Finger ; 


(39 ) Finger Brace m :ans & Inetal board or structural steel shape secured to 

the Finger board or to the derrick or mast members to resist horizon 

tal movement of the Finger ; 
( 40 ) Fired cquipment means equipment, heated by externally applicd 

flame or by externally applied electric heat, developing a tempera 
ture capable of igniting gases or vapours ; 


090 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRII, 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 29 , 1885 


[PART 


(41) Flarc means the stack , pit or other device or location where waste or 

excess inflammable gases and vapours are burnt in the atmosphere ; 


( 42 ) Foreman means a person appointed by the manager in writing under 

any designation whatsocver , to perform the duties of supervision or 
control in a mine or part thereof; 


( 43 ) Form means a form as set out in the Schedule ; 


( 44 ) Gas or gases include fume or vapour and unless otherwise specited 

in these regulations, mean the aeriform or vapour state of the hydro 

carbons occurring in or derived from petroleum or natural gas ; 
( 45 ) Gas Free or Free of Gas means free from hazardous concentration . 

of noxious vapours, fumes and gases ; 
( 46 ) Gin Pole Mast means a single or double leg type mast supported in 

working position by either guys or one or more auxiliary legs , nor 
mally used for supporting crown hlock and travelling block and 

Includes tripods. 
Explanation . - Gin Pole mast may be of either rigid or telescoping construc 

tion and may be eithur stationary or portable ; 
(47) Guarded means shielded , fenced , enclosed or otherwise protected ac 

cording to these regulations so its to remove the liability of accident 
al contact or approach dangerous to workers; 


( 48 ) High Pressure Hydrocarbon means any liquid hydro -carbon component 

of petroleum or natural gas, or a mixture of two or more liquid 
petroleum or natural gas components , having vapour pressure greater 
than 70 kgms. per square centimetre at 38 degrees centigrad . 216 
determined by standard test method approved in writing by the Chief 

Inspector, 
(49) Hazardous Substance means une which is likely to cause injury by 

reason of being explosive, inflammable , extremely inflammable , 

poisonous, corrosive, Oxidizing , irritant or otherwise harmful; 
(50 ) High Line means a specially rigged rope used to convey pipe, drilling 

tools or other equipment from a derrick or mast to the derrick walk 

or other location outside the derrick or mast. 
Explanation . A high line when pulled tight provides a suspendeul track on 

which a carriage travels for conveying the pipe, drilling tools or other 

cquipment; 
(61) Ignition Temperature or Autoignition Temperature or Automatic 

Ignition Temperature is that temperature at which a liquid , vapour 
or gas ignites when in the presence of atmospheric air without the 

necessity of a flame or otier source of ignition ; 
(52 ) Inside Derrick Platform incans a fixed platform inside the arrick 

tower on which workmen stand to handle pipe or other cquipment 

racked in the derrick tower ; 
( 53 ) Laboratory means a plant or subdivision of a plant or a department 

when the primary purpose is teslilig , aralysis , inspect on research , 
experimentation or proce55 dovelopinnt in connection with the 
petroleuni, natural gasoy oy thi" producta , derivative. UI Elated com 
modlities Provided that this chall not include plac s Wiere simple 
tu ts not requiring the uno in ource of ignition i110 . 00u19 incidental 
to the processing or handling of petroleun, natural gas or other 

prorlunts ; 
(54 ) Lidrier Offset Platform incany a platform installed on the derrick 

tower or mast at noints where the ladder is offset , for the specific 
purpose of provil .- C . fuum un . leil . woulin 1 ) on adjacent 

offset certion ; 
(55 ) Leasehold means a pronert , irrespective of the nature of the legal 

title or possession , from which girs or oil is being produced or sought 
and may include a group of several contiguous properties as one lease 
when under one employer ; 


Sharc. 3(1)] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 . 1885 


691 


(56 ) Light Oil means a petroleum or a liquid petroleum or natural gas 

having flashpoint below 38 degrees centigrade and includes any 
petroleum or liquid product of petroleum or natural gas while at a 

temperature above its fashpoint ; 
(87 ) Loading Rack means a platform giving access to the tops of tank cars , 

tani truck and trailers and to overhead valves and pipes requiring 
operation in the loading or unloading of such tank cars , tank trucks 
and trailers ; 


( 58 ) Machinery means 
(1) any locomotive or any stationary or portable engine pump or alr com 

pressor , boller or steam apparatus which is , or 
( li) any such apparatus appliance or combination of appliances intended for 

developing storing, transmitting , converting or utilising energy which 

is . Or 
( 111) any such apparatus appliance or combination of appliances, if any 

power developed , stored , transmitted , converted or utilised thereby 
is , used or intended to be used in connection with the mining opera 

tion ; 
( 59 ) Manager means a person appointed in writing by the owner or agent 

to be in charge of a mine under the Act ; 
( 60 ) Mineral Oil cr Rock Oll (hydro- carbons ) includes petroleum which is 

obtained from oil reservoirs beneath the earth surface and oils obtain 
ed by distillation from bituminous coal and shale ; 


(81) Misfire means the failure to explode of an entire charge of explosives 

in a shot-hole ; 


(62 ) Monkey Board means an adjustable or movable platform inside the 

derrick tower on which workmen stand on to handle pipe or other 
equipment racked on the derrick tower ; 


Explanation . - A monkey board may 

derrick platform ; 


be 


used 


instead of fixed inside 


( 63 ) Official means a person appointed in writing by the owner, agent or 

manager to perform duties of supervision in mine or part thereot 
and includes an under -manager or assistant manager , a foreman , an 
engineer , driller and a surveyor ; 


( 64 ) Oil Saver means a device used in conjunction with a wire line in an 

oil or gas well ; 


Explanation In oil sayer is attached either directly or indirectly to the 

top of the oil casing . It has a packing element for restricting and 

directing Auids and gas from such wells into desirable outlets : 
(85 ) Opening of Lines and Equipment means exposing their contents to 

the atmosphere , except through valves affording positive control; 
( 06 ) Outside Derrick Platform means a platform on one or more outer sides 

of the derrick tower , but does not include either a ladder offset plat 

form or the derrick crown platform ; 
(67) " Permitted Explosives means an explosive manufactured by such firm 

and of such type as the Chief Inspector may from time to time specify 

by notification in the official gazette ; 
( 68 ) Plant-pumping or Pumping Plant means a plant the primary purpose 

of which is to pump petroleum or liquid products of petroleum or 

natural gas through a transmission pipe ; 
(69 ) Portable Cantilever Mast means an upright, self -supporting colum 

nar latticed structure consisting of prefabricated tower sections 
which are transported separately , assambled in a horizontal position 
anchored to a unitized skidbase type structure , and are uprighted by 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : APRIL, 18 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 18845 


[PART 11 


R 


means of a travelling block , sling , and erection A - frame or hytrau 

lic litts or by other means; 
(70) Portable Drilling or Well Servicing Derricks, Masts or Gin Poles 

mean such equipment that can be readily reduced to units which can 
be transported by mobile equipment provided that these does not 

include standard type derricks; 
( 71) Portable Gin Post Mast means usually an extensible single or double 

Jeg type mast which is supported in working position by either guys 

or one or more auxiliary legs 
Explanation . Portable Gin Post Mast normally used for supporting the 

crown block and travelling block and it can bo lowered over a vehicle 
or skid hoist for transportation ; 


( 72 ) Portable Jackknife Mast means an extensible columnar latticed struc 

ture which is normally used for supporting the crown block and 
travelling blocks and which can be collapsed over a supporting 
vehicle for transportation by folling the mast at one and more points ; 


(73) Portable Telescoping Mast means an extensible columnar latticed 

structure which is normally used for supporting the crown block 
and travelling block and which can be collipsert and laid down 
over a supporting vehicle for transportation ; 


( 74 ) Prcrc - relievi is Sifcy Device means a device for reli vin rressure , 

such as a direct spring - loadco safety valve or rupture disc or any 

other device approved by the Chi | Ingrcntur ; 
( 75 ) Principal Inside Derrick Platform means the upper fixed platform on 

which workmen stand to liandle stands of pipe racked in thr der 

rick tower ; 
( 176 ) Publir road ineans it load maintained for public usc and und r the 

jurisdiction of any Government or local authority ; 
( 177 ) Quarter means a period of 3 months ending on 31st March , 30th June, 

30th September or 31st December ; 
( 78 ) Railings and toeboards , except as otherwise specified in these regula 

tions mean railings, stair rails, hand rails and toeboards constructed 

in conformity with approved standards ; 
( 79 ) Railway means railway as defined in the Indian Railways Act, 1890 

( 9 of 1890 ) ; 
( 80 ) Regional Inspector means the Inspector of Mines in charge of the 

region or local area or areas in which the mine is situated or the 
group or class of mine to which the mine belongs over which he 

exercises his powers under the Act ; 
( 81 ) Reservoir means a roofed container for the storage of petroleum 

liquids built so that its bottom and sides are in contact with and sup . 

ported by the earth ; 
( 82 ) Respiratory Equipniunt means approvest sell - contained oxygen breath 

ing apparatus, canister - type gas masks supplier -air hose masses and 

other approved equipment providing equivalent protection ; 
( 83 ) Rod Board Inside Derrick Platform means the fixed platform on 

which workmen stand to handle sucker rods racked in the derrick 
tower ; 


( 84 ) Rotary Hose means each length or s. ction of hoge used in the drilling 

fluid circulating system subject to the normal circulating pressure 

through the system into the well ; 
Explanation . - Lengths of steel tubing connected together with swiveled 

elbow couplings when used in the drilling fluid circulating system , 

shall be considered to be a type of rotary hose ; 
(85 ) Samson Post means the main upright post or column that supporto 

the walking beam ; 


Sec. KD ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 29. 1889 


693 


( 88 ) Schedule means a schedule appended to these regulations; 
(87 ) Secured or Securely Fastened means that the device or object reter 

red to is go anchored that it will not become accidentally detached , 

displaced or removed under normal us or foreseen circumstances; 
( 88 ) " Snapping - up Line means a wire or Abre rope secured to a pipe tong 

handle which serves to impart a pulling power on the tong handle 
for the final tightening or snapping - up of a threaded joint of pipe 

used in a well ; 
€89 ) " Source of Ignition means any flame, arc, spark , or heat which 49 cap 

able of igniting inflammable liquids , gases or vapours ; 
(90 ) Stabbing Board means a readily movable platform used in the der 

rick tower or on a mast on which workmen stand to p . rform work 
of a temporary nature not normally performed from a fixed inside 
derrick platform or minkey board, or a fixed working platform on a 

mast ; 
( 91 ) Static Electricity means the type of clectrical charge resulting from 

the separation of material, friction or any other causes; 
(92 ) Substantially constructed or Substantial construction shall mean 

construction of such strength , material and workmanship that the 
object will, under normal use and operation and fuecen circums 
tances , withstand all rel70 labdai shock , 1 ul, usre , and deteriora 

tion it was designed to, witzu !" nd ; 
( 93 ) Sump means an unroofn , lined or unlined , pit or nyt on for hold 

ing liquids; 
( 14 ) " Tank mcan - a montarer ( Covered or un nurred ) of 10 licerol or great 

er capacity for holling or storing liquids at or car atmospheric 
procure , and shall unless otherwise I Enrere to in they regulations 
au stacio - ry , include ; Sulh containers 7 used on tal cars. 

tank - trucks and skids; 
( 95 ) Travelling Block means two or more sterl plates and other metal 

parts assembled into a framework within which ar inunted one or 
more sheaves on which the hoisting line is proved in connection with 
the sheaves on the crown block . 


Exp ? 127 . - . . . 7 . in 

and the crown block ; 


trip btween the derick or mast Novia 


( 96 ) Travelling Block means a hook or equivalent device suspended from 

the travelling block and from which the elevator links, swivel bail 
or other equipment is attached ; 


(97 ) Valve means a device for regulating or controlling the flow of liquid . 

gas , or vapour by a movable part or parts which open or close a 
passage and includes a rock ; 


( 98 ) Vessel means an unfired and closed metal contairer ud for holding 

or storing substancrs in their liquid or gaseous state at pressures 
above atmospheric, unless exempted by Chief Inspector; 


( 99 ) Wall-Retaining or Retaining Wall mrans a Vall made of roncroic , 

earthwork or other incombustible material, huilt for the purpose of 
protecting equipment and persons by confining corrosive inflam 
mable or poisonous liquids that may be releusd by tank failure , 
tank boil -over or other causes ; 


( 100 ) Walk Way means a passage for pedestriaos; 


( 101) Water Lights mean portable lights used at night to illuminate a life 

buoy or the area wh re it floats on the surface of the water. 


Explanation . Water lights are usually attached to the life - buoy and are 

thrown out with the buoy in case of emergency ; 
( 102 ) Well includes boreholes ; 


694 


THE GA/ ETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 / CHAITRA 28, 1885 


[PAKT II 


( 103 ) Well servicing means remedial or maintenance work performed with 

in the well casing on any well, other than a drilling well; 
( 104 ) “Working place means any place in a mine to which any person has 
lawful access. 

CHAPTER II - RETURNS , NOTICES AND RECORDS 
3 . ( 1 ) Notice of opening. The notice required by section 16 of the Act shall be 
gubmitted in form I of the Schedule . 

( 2 ) When a mine has been opened, the owner , agent or manager shall forth 
with communicate the actual date of opening to the Chief Inspector and to the 
Regional Inspector. 

4 . Quarterly Returns. — On or before the twentieth day of January , April . July 
and October of each year, the owner, agent or manager shall submit to the Chief 
Inspector and the Regional Inspector correct returns in respect of the preceding 
quarter in form II of the schedule . 

5 . Annual Returns ( 1 ) On or before the twentieth day of February of each 
year, the owner , agent or manager shall submit to the District Magistrate and to 
the Chief Inspector annual returns in respect of preceding year in form IL of the 
Schedule . 

( 2 ) If a mine is abandoned or working thereof is discontinued over a period 
exceeding sixty days or if a change occurs in the ownership of a mine, the returns 
required under sub - regulation ( 1 ) shall be submitt - d within thirty days of aban 
donment or change of ownership or within ninety days of discontinuance , 80 
the case may be. 

Provided that the Chief Inspector may, by an order in writing and subject 
to such conditions as he may specify threin , allow such returns to be submitted 
upto any date not later than the twentieth day of February of the year following 
that to which they relate , 

Provided further that nothing in this sub - regulation shall be deemed to 
authorise submission of any return later than the twentieth day of February of 
the year following that to which it relates. 

6 . Notice of Abandonment or Discontingance ( 1 ) When it is intended to 
abandon a minc or part of a mine or to discontinue operation thereof for a period 
exceeding four months, the owner, agent or manager shall, not less than thirty 
days bi- fore such abandonment or discontinuance , give to the Chief Inspector and 
the Regional Inspector a notice stating the reasons for the proposed abandonment 
or discontinuance and the number of persons likely to be affected thereby , 


Provided that when on account of unforseen circumstances a mine is aban 
doned or discontinued before the said notice has been given or when without 
previous Intention the discontinuance exceeds beyond a period of four months a 
notice shall be given forthwith . 


( 2 ) When a mine or part has been abandoned , or the working thereof has 
been discontinued over a period exceeding four months, the owner , agent or 
manager shall within sev n days of the abandonment or the expiry of the said 
perlod give to the Chief Inspector, Regional Inspector, and the District Magistrate 
a notice in Form I of the Schedule . 


1 . Notice of re -opening. ( 1 ) When it is intended to re -open a mine or part 
thereof after abandonment or after discontinuance for a period exceeding four 
months, the owner , agent or manager shall, not less than thirty days before 
resumption of mining opcration , give to the Chief Inshertor, Regional Inspector 
and the District Magistrate , a notice in Form I of the Schedule . 

( 2 ) When a minn , or part has b en re - opened , the owner, agent or manager of 
the mine shall forthwith communicate the actual date of re -opening to the Chief 
Inspector and the Regional Inspector. 

8 . Change in ownership and addresses etc ( 1 ) ( a ) When a change occurg in 
the name or ownership of the mine or in the address of the owner , the owner , 
agent or manager shall within seven days from th - date of the change give to the 
Chief Inspector and the Regional Inspector, a notice in form I of the Schedule . 


SEO, 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


695 


Provided that where the owner of a mine is a firm or other association or 
individuals, a change 

(i) of any partner in the case of a firm ; 
( ii) of any member in the case of an association ; 
( lii ) of any director in the case of a public company; and 
( iv ) of any share - holder in the case of a private company -- 
shall also be intimated to the Chief Inspector and the Regional Inspector 

within seven days from the date of the change. 
( b ) When the ownership of a mine is transferred , the previous owner or his 
agent shall make over to the new owner of his agent, within a period of seven 
days of the transfer of ownership , all plans, sections, reports, registers and other 
records maintained in pursuance of the Act, these Regulations or orders made 
thereunder and all correspondence relating to the working of the mine relevant 
thereto , and when the requirements of this clause have bein duly complied with , 
both the previous and the new owners or their respective agents shall forthwith 
send to th - Chief Inspector and the Regional Inspector a detailed list of the plang, 
sections, reports, registers and other records that have been transferred , 

( 2 ) Whon any appointment is made of an agent, manager, engineer, surveyor 
or an assistant manager or when the employment of any such person is terminated 
or any such person leaves the said employment or when any change occurs in the 
address of any agent or manager , the own I , agent or manager shall within seven 
days from the date of such appointment, termination or change give to the Chief 
Inspector and the Regional Inspector a notice in form I of the Schedule . 

. Notice of accident . - ( 1 ) ( a ) When there occurs in or about a mine 
( 1) an accident causing loss of life or serious bodily injury in connection 

with mining operations; 
( 1 ) an outbreak of fire spontaneous heating or appearance of smoke or 

other indication of heating or outbreak of fire ; 
( u ) a bursting of any cquipment containing steam , compressed air or other 

substance at pressurc ; 
( lv ) an explosion or ignition or blowout; 
( v ) a breakage, fracture or failure of any essential part of any machine or 

apparatus whereby the safety of the person may be endangered ; 
( vi) any accident due to explosive ; 
(vii ) an influx of inflammable or noxious gas; 
(vill) irruption of water ; 
( ix ) premature collapse of any part of working; or 

( x ) an overwind ; 
the owner, agent or manager shall forthwith inform the Regional Inspector about 
the occurrence by telephone or express telegram or by special messenger, and 
shall also within 24 hours of ev ry such occurrence give notice thereof in form 
IV A of the Schedule to the District Magistrate , the Chief Inspector and the 
Regional Inspector . The owner, agent or manager shall simultaneously exhibit 
a copy of the notice on a special notice board outside the office of the mine and 
shall ensure that the notice is kept on the board in a legible condition for not 
less than fourteen days from the date of such exhibition . 

( h ) When an accident causing loss of life or serious bodily injury occurs in or 
about a mine in connection with the generation , storage , transformation , trang 
mission . sunnly or use of electrical encrey , the owner , agent or manager shall 
also forthwith inform the Electric Inspector of Mines by telephone , express tele 
gram or special messenger . 

( 2 ) ff death result from any injury already reported as serious under sub 
regulation ( 1 ) , the owner , agent or manager shall within 24 hours of his heink 
informed of the drath , give notice thereof to the District Magistrate , the Chief 
Inspector, and the Regional Inspector. 


096 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 . 1885 


(PART IL 


( 3 ) In respect of every person killed or injured ag above, the owner , agent or 
manager shall, within seven days of the occurrence , send to the Chief Inspector , 
particulars in form IV B . 

10 . Notice of disease . Where any person employed in a mine contracts any 
disease notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette , the owner . 
agent or manager shall, within seven days of his being informed of the disease , 

ve notice thereof in foșm V of the Schedule to the District Magistrate , to the 
Chief Inspector, the Regional Inspector and the Inspector of Mines (Medical) . 

CHAPTER III — INSPECTORS AND MINE OFFICIALS 
11 . Qualification of Inspectors . -- ( 1 ) No person shall be appointed as Chief 
Inspector or Inspector unless he liolds a degree or diploma in mining engineering 
of an Educational Institution approved by the Central Government and unless 
the Central Government thinks him fit to be employed for the post for which he 
is selected , 
Provided that , 
( i ) in relation to electricăil machinery installed in mines , a person holding 

a degree o : diploma in electrical engineering approved by the Cen 

tral Government may be so appointed ; 
( in ) in relation to other mahinery or mechanical appliances installed in 

nine, a person holanc 4d 11 or diplomu in mechanical engineer 

ing approved by the Central Governmc it may be so appointed ; and 
( in ) in relation to tze provisions of the Act and of the Regulations and of 

orders mp3 licinler " !!! To rta tomu , ron . 21. ing the health 
and wetlass of n Sul... a prison holding a dell or diploma in 
medicine, surgeri d .u !/ ur in social science or labour Welfart , as tha 
case may be, uplovid ly th . Cutral Government may be so 

appointed 
( 2 ) The Central Government my 707277 any person whom il considery com 
petent, as an In - pertor notwithstanding that suirih person does not possess the 
qualifications prescribed in that behalf by these regulations. 

12 Definition . For the purpose oi this chaptır mine means a mine having 
quch extent and jurisrliction as may be approved by the Chief Inspector. 

13 . Qualifications and appointment of inanagers . - ( 1 ) ( a ) No mine shall be 
opened, worked or re -opened unless this is a manager of the mine being a person 
duly appointed by the owner or agent and having such qualifications and experi 
ence as may be approved by the Chief Inspector by a gen ral or special order in 
writing. 

( b ) No person shall at or be employed as a manager of a mine unless he is 
23 years of age and is paid by and is directly answerable to own : r or agent of 
the mine. 

( c ) No person shall act of he so ; oinitdar inanegcr cf more than one mine 
except with the previous permission in writing of the Chief Insp ctor and subject 
to such conditions as he may sperify therein No such permission shall have effect 
for a period exceeding 12 nonths, unlegi ren well. Th . Chiuf Inspector may at 
any time, by an order in " riting, vary or revoke any such permission if the cir 
cumstances under which t lt j ermizzion vits granted hive alterect or the Chiar 
Inspector finds that the m112 Top has izol been able to exercise effective suprvi 
sion in the mines under his charge . 

( 2 ) ( a ) Wheely rca . on o absence of for any oth - r reasons the manager is 
unable to undertake daily personal supervision or is unible to perform his duties 
under the Act or under the Regulations and Order . made ther . under, the owner, 
agent or manager shall authorise in writing a person whom he considers compe 
tent to act is manager of the mine . 
Provided that 
( i) no such authorisation shall have effect for a period exceeding thirty 

days except with the previous consent in writing of the Chief Inspec 


tor ; 


( 11 ) the owner , agent or manager as the case may be , shall forthwith send 

to the Chief Inspector and the Regional Inspector a written notice 


Str . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1968 /CHAITRA 28 , 1895 


697 


Intimating that such an authorisation has been made and stating the 
reason for the authorisation , the qualifications and experience of the 
person authorised and the date of the commencement and ending of 

the authorisation , 
( b ) The person so authorised shall, during the period of such authorisation 
bave the same responsibilities, discharge the same duties and be subject to the 
same liabilities as the manager . 

( 3 ) ( a ) No manager shall vacate his office without giving due notice in writing 
to the owner or the agent at least thirty days before the day on which he wishes 
to vacate his office : 

Provided that the owner or agent may lor reasons to be recorded in writing 
permit the manager to vacate his office after giving a shorter notice . 

( b ) No owner or agent shall transfer , discharge or dismiss a manager unless 
the manager has been relieved by another manager duly approved by the Chief 
Inspector 

( c ) A copy of every such notice and authorisation shall forthwith be sent to 
the Chief Insp . ctor and to the Regional Inspector , 

( 1 ) ( a ) , tr, manager shall be entrusted by the owner or agent with any work 
nor shall ho hiniset rerform any work , which will necesitate his frcquent or 
prolongerl absence from the minc. 

( b , Unlo , n othoit se permittid by the Chief Inspector by an order in writing 
no manager shrill act as an agent or assistant manager or in any other supervisory 
capacity in onether mine . 

14 . Anpoint:nunt and qualification or Assistant M1919g 5 , — The Regional Ins 
pector may by an order in writing require that the manager shall be asisted by 
one or more ass stint ninayer s as he may cursider necessary . Wliere any dispute 
arises, the 11t small be front this chief 1.750ftor whose decision thereon 
shall be final 

( 2 ) An assistant manager shall have such qualifi alions and expriience as ndy 
be approved by the Chief Inspector by a helitial of special order in wiiting . 

15 . Appointment of Engincers . ( 1 ) At very laine wire machinery is used , 
an enginer or other competent person not less than 23 years of age shall be 
appointed to hold charge of such machinery ind to be responsible for its instal 
lation , maintenans , and safe working . 

Provided that nothing in this sub -regulation shall be deemed to prohibit the 
employment of two or more engincers or competent persons at one mine so long 
as the jurisdiction and spher . of responsibility of every such engineer or compet 
ent person is defined by the manager in the letter of appointment. 

Provided further that after such date as the Central Government may notify 
in the Official Gaz : tte no person , unless he is holding a degree or diploma in 
mechanical or electrical engineering approved by the Central Government, shall 
be appointed as enginyer cxcept with the previous permission in writing or the 
Chief Inspector and sustaiti: ! ri (17 itions as he may specify therein . 

( 2 ) NO DC 0 :1 shall undertake the dut es of an engineer at more than one mine 
without the previous permission in writiny of the Regional Inspector and subject 
to such conditions as tie may specify there s The Regional Insp . scor may at any 
time, by an order in writing , ? Y O revelous rych miss on . 


( 3 ) Where by reason of temporary algenud or for any other reason , the engi 
nect Or competení person appointed under sub -regulation ( 1 ) is unable to per 
form hi , duties, the manager shall authorise in writing a person whom he consi 
ders competent to act in his place . 
Provided thai 
( a ) notice of every such authorisation shall be sent to the Regional Inspec 

tor forthwith ; 
( b ) no such authorisation shall have effect for a period exceeding thirty 

days except with the previou : consent in writing of the Regional 
Inspector. 


698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1969 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II - 


( c ) The Regional Inspector may, by an order in writing. revoke any 

authority so granted . 
10 . Appointment and qualification of Senior Oficials . - ( 1 ) At every mine one 
or more foremen shall be appointed to hold charge of the different operations of 
the mine on each working shift . A foreinan shall have such qualifications and 
experli nce as may be approved by the Chief Inspector by a general or special 
order in writing. 

( 2 ) The operations of the mine assigned to a foreman shall not be of much 
nature and extent nor shall any additional duties other than his duties under 
the regulations be such as to be likely to prevent him from carrying out in a 
thorough manner the duties prescribed for him under the regulations. If any 
doubt arises as to the foregoint , it shall be referred to the Chief Inspector for 
decision 

17 , Appointment of Surveyors .-- ( 1 ) At every mine a person not less than 23 
years of age and holding such qualifications and experi ince as may be approved 
in writing by the Chief Inspector by a general or special order shall be appointed 
as the surveyor for carrying out the surv . VS and levellings and for preparing the 
plans and sections required under the Act , the Regulations or Örders made 
thereunder . 

( 2 ) No person shall be appointed as a surveyor of more than one mine or in 
any other supervisory capacity in the same mine or any other mine without the 
previous permission in writing of the Regional Inspector and subject to such 
condition as he may specify therein . The Regional Inspector may by an order in 
writing revoke such permission if the circumstances under which it was granted 
have altered or the Regional Inspector finds that the surveyor has not been able 
to carry out satisfactorily the work allotted to him . 

18 . Appointment of officials and competent persons. - ( 1 ) The owner, agent or 
manager shall appoint such number of persons, including officials , and compet 
ent persons and technicians as is sufficient to secure during each of the working 
shift 

(1) adequate inspection of the mine and of the equipment thereof ; 
( ii ) a thorough supervision of all operations in the mine ; 
( iii ) installation , running and maintenance in sats working order of all 

machinery in the mine; and 
( iv ) the enforcement of the requirements of the Act, of the regulations and 

orders made thereunde: 


Provided that if the Regional Inspector finds that thosc appointed are inade 
quate , he may require the appointment of such number of additional competent 
persons by the owner, agent or manager as he considers necessary . 


( 2 ) It shall be the responsibility of the manag - r to see that the persons 
appointed are competent to perform the duties assigned to them . No person shall 
be so appointed unless he is paid by the owner or agent and is answerable to the 
manager . 

( 3 ) Copies of all appointments made under sub - regulation ( 1 ) shall be entered 
in a bound paged book kept for the purpose . A list of such persons shall also be 
maintained 


( 4 ) Without prejudice to the requirements of sub -regulation ( 2 ) , every mana 
ger on taking over charge of a mine shall satisfy himself that all persons already 
appointed undr sub - regulation ( 1 ) arc competent to perform the duties assigned 
to them and if he finds them competent he shall either countersign the authorisa 
tions or issue fresh ones . 

19 . Appointment of Driller ( 1 ) Every drilling operation shall be under the 
charg of a driller who shall not be less than 23 years of age and shall be compet 
ent to pertorm the duties assigned to him and be responsible for the safety of the 
persons employed in drilling operations. 

( 2 ) No person shall be appointed as a driller unless he possesses such qualifica 
tions and experience as may be approved by the Chief Inspector by a general 
or special order in writing. 


SEC. 3 (i)] 


THE GAZEI TE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


639 


- 


20 . Appointment of Blasters . - - No person shall be appointed as a blaster (or 
shotfirer ) unless he holds such qualifications and experience as may be approved 
by the Chief Inspector by a general or special order in writing. 

21. General Management . - ( 1 ) The owner , agent and manager shall provide 
for the safety and proper discipline of persons employed in the mine. 

( 2 ) On receipt of a requisition under sub - regulation ( 2 ) of regulation 25 . the 
owner or agent shall within three days of the receipt of the requisition intorm 
the manager of the action taken . 

( 3 ) Except in the case of an emergency , no person , who is not an official or a 
competent person shall give, otherwise than through the manager , instructions 
to a person employed in a mine who is responsible to the manager. 


CHAPTER IV - DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF WORKMEN , COMPETENT PERSONS AND 

OFFICIALS 


22 . Duties of persons employed in mine.---- ( 1 ) ( a ) Every person shall bent 
strictly following constantly adhere to the provisions of the Act and of the Regula 
tions and orders made thereunder shall also comply with any order or direction 
issued by the manager or any official with a view to the safety or convenience of 
persons, not being inconsistent with the Act and these regulations, nor shall he 
neglect or refuse to obey such orders or directions. 

( b ) No person shall interfere with , impede or obstruct any other person in 
the discharge of his duties , nor shall he offer or render any service or use any 
threat to any other person with a view to prevent him from complying with the 
provisions of the Act , these regulations and orders made thereunder or from per 
forming his duties faithfully . If any person who receives any such offer or 
threat, fails to inform the manager forthwith he shall also be guilty of a breach 
of these regulations. 

( 2 ) Every person shall immediately before proceeding to work and after 
furnishing work at the end of the shift have his name recorded in the register 
maintained under sub - section ( 4 ) of Section 48 of the Act. 

( 3 ) No person shall be engaged in any work unless he wears the protective 
equipment required to be used for the work . 

( 4 ) ( a ) No person shall, except with the authority of an official remove or pass 
through any fence , barrier or gate or remove or pass any danger signal. 

( b ) Subject to any directions that may be given by an official, no person shall, 
except for some justifiable purpose, go into any part of the mine other than that 
in which he works. 

(5 ) No person shall , while on duty , throw any stone or other missile to cause 
injury or fright or behave in a violent manner . 

( 6 ) Every person receiving an injury in the course of his duty shall, as soon 
as possible report the same to an official or to the competent person in charge 
of the fir t ai . Siation who shall arrange for the necessary first aid to the injured 
person , 

( 7 ) Nincrson shall s een whilst on duty . 

( 8 ) fubiect to the pcv c ons oi tre jt, Regulations and Orders made there 
undür . na nerson shall remria in a mine beyond he period of his shift. 

93. D tips of competent persons -- Every comnntent person shall be resnoncihle 
for the duties assigned to him . He shall be subject to the orders of superior 
officials and sha ! rini 
( a ) depute another person to perform his work without the sanction of his 

superior official: 
( 5 ) absent himself without having previously obtained permission from such 

official for the period of his absence or without having been relieved 

by another competent person ; and 
( c ) without permission from such official perform , during his shift , any duties 

other than those for which he has been so appointed . 


7 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15 , 1983 / CHAITRA 23, 1886 


(PART II 


24 . Duties of Officials . - ( 1 ) Every official shall be responsible for and shall carry 
out the duties assigned to him by the manager , or assistant manager in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act, Regulations and orders made thereunder . 

( 2 ) Every official shall , to the best of his ability , see that persons under his 
-charge understand and carry out their respective duties properly . 

25 . Duties and responsiblütles of manager . - ( 1 ) In every minę daily personal 
supervision shall be exercised by the manager, 

( 2 ) The manager shall see that sufficient supply of proper materials and appli 
ances for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act , these regulations 
and orders made thereunder and for ensuring the safety of the mine and persong 
employed therein , is always provided at the mine ; and if he be not the owner or 
agent of the mine, he shall report in writing to the owner or agent when anything 
which he is not competent to order is required for the aforesaid purpose . A copy 
of every such report shall be recorded in a bound paged book kept for the purpose . 

( 3 ) The manager shall assign to every official and competent person his parti 
aular duties , define his sphere of responsibility , and shall on form appointment 
nake over to him a copy of these regulations, rules and bye -laws under the Act 
And of any orders made thereunder which effect him and shall take all possible 
steps to ensure that every such person understands, carries out and enforces tho 
provisions therein contained in a proper manner . 

( 4 ) The manager shall examine all reports , registers and other records required 
to be made or kept in pursuance of the Act, these regulations and orders made 
thereunder and shall countersign the same with dato . He may , however , by an 
arder in writing delegate this duty to an assistant manager or other official. 

( 5 ) The manager shall give attention to and cause to be carefully investigated 
any specific representation or complaint that may be made to him in writing by 
an employee of the mine as to any matter aflecting the safety or health of persons 
to or about the minē . 

(6 ) When an accident resulting in any serious bodily injury to any person or 
in loss of life occurs in a mine, the manager shall Inspect the site of accident as 
soon as possible , and shall also either himself or through an assistant manager 
have an enquiry made into the cause of and circumstances leading the accident. 
The result of every such enquiry and a plan and section of the site of the accident 
showing the details shall be submitted to the Regional Inspector within seven days 
at the date of occurrence. 

( 7 ) The manager shall perform such other duties as have been prescribed in 
that behall under the Act , these regulations and orders made thereunder . 

( 8 ) The manager may suspend or take such disciplinary action as he thinks 
ht, against the workpersons for contravention of any provision of the Act, the 
Regulations and orders made thereunder. 

(9 ) The manager shall maintain , in a bound paged book kept for the purpose , 
a diary and shall record therein the findings of each of his inspections and also 
the action taken by him to rectify the defects mentioned , if any. 

26 . Datles and responsibilities of assistant managers . - ( 1 ) The assistant mana 
rer shall carry out the duties assigned to him by the manager , and shall see that 
In the part of the minc assigned to him by the manager all work is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Art. these Regulations and Orders made 
thereunder . 

( 2 ) The assistant manager shall, subject to the orders of the manager, visit 
and examine the working places under his charge or part thereof on every working 
day . 


( 3 ) In the absence of the manager , the assistant manager authoriset in that 
behall shall have the same responsibility, discharge the same duties and be subject 
to the same llabilities as the manager but not so as to exernpt the manager there 
con. 

( 1 ) Tho as I tant manager shall maintain , in a bound paged book kept for 
the purpose, a dlary ; and shall record therein the findings of earh of his insnec 
tions and also the action taken by him to rectify the defects mentioned , if any . 
He shall put up his diary to the manager every day. 


$ . 81] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


TL 


27. Duties and responsibilities of foreman - Every foreman , supervisor or other 
competent person appointed under regulation 16 shall strictly observe the following 
provisions viz . 
( 1 ) ( a ) Subject to the orders of superior oflicials , he shall have responsibility , 

charge and control of such operations connected with the mine and 

shall carry out such duties as may be assigned to him by the manager . 
0 ) He shall within the area under his control, make inspections and then 

submit reports required by these regulations. 
( * ) ( a ) He shall be responsible to see that the subordinate omcials and 

competent persons working in the area under his control carry out their 
respective duties in a proper manner . 


6 ) He shall enforce in the area under his control, the provisions of the 

Act , these regulations and orders made thereunder , and shall, subject 
to the control of the manager and the assistant manager or any other 
superior oflcial, if any, give such instructions as may be necessary 
to ensure compliance with those provisions and to secure safety and 

proper disclpline of the persons employed therein . 
1 ) He shall give prompt attention to the removal of any danger observed by 

or reported to him , and shall see that the dangerous places are ade 

quately fenced off . 
4 ) ( a ) He shall devote the whole of his time to his duties and shall viat 

each working place under his charge as often as may be necessary . 
6 ) He shall not , except for a justifiable cause leave the area under bis 

charge until he has finished the inspection required under these 
regulations and any other duties he is required to perform or until 

relieved by a duly appointed substitute . 
( 0 ) He shall, if the mine is working in a continuous guccession of shifts , con 

fer with the official succeeding him and give him such information as 
may be necessary for the safety of the persons employed under hiu 

charge . 
( O ) ( a ) He shall, at the end of his shift record in a bound paged book kept 

for the purpose , a general report on the performance of all his duties 
during the shift, including anything concerning the proper working of 
the mine and the safety and discipline of persons employed under his 

charge . 
(b ) He shall see that the fire fighting equipment are kept at the appointed 

places and are properly maintained in working order . 
He shall have power to send out of the mine any person under his 

charge intringing or attempting to infringe any provisions of the Act, 
these regulations and orders made thereunder , or failing to carry out 
any direction giv - n with regard to safety and shall report in writing 
any such infringement or attempted infringement or failure to the 

assistant manager and manager , 
8 Duties and Responsibilities of Blasters - Every blaster (or shotfrer ) shall 
( a ) carry out his duties in accordance with the provisions of these regula 

tions and of any orders made thereunder with resoect to the transport 

and use of cxplosives; 
( b ) be responsible for the observance by his assistants , if any , of such pro 

visions and of any direction with a view to satety which may be given 

to their by a superior offcial; 
( c ) not hand over any explosives to any unauthorised person ; 
( dl ) ser that clay, sand (ir othe suitable stemming material is available in 

suficient quantities at innvenient places ; 
( ) be present when shots are being charged and stemnings and sha! ! himsell 

fire the shots , and 
fr ) te rasgos cible when a shot has misilied . for sceline hat the plane is ade 

Gutely fenie, mid that the provision of regulation 126 are strictly 
observed . 


702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


(PART II 


by the sings the sea 


29 . Duties and responsibilities of Surveyors.- - ( 1 ) Every surveyor shall 
( a ) make such surveys and levellings and prepare such plans and sections 

and tracings thereof as the manager may direct or as may be required 
by the Act , regulations or orders made thereunder , and shall sign the 

plans, sections and tracings and date his signature ; 
( b ) be responsible for the accuracy of any plans and sections or tracinga 

thereof that have been prepared and / or signed by him . 
( 2 ) The surveyor shall record in a bound paged book kept for the purpose 
( a ) any doubt which may exist concerning the accuracy of the plans and 

sections prepared under these regulations; and 
( b ) any other matter relating to the preparation of the plans, sections and 

tracings that he may like to bring to the notice of the manager , 


very entry in the book shall be signed and dated by the surveyor and counter 
signed and dated by the manager : 

Provided that where in any mine two or more surveyors are employed , each of 
the surveyors shall make the entries in respect of the workings in his jurisdiction 
or the plans and sections in his charge . 

( 3 ) Nothing in sub - regulation ( 2 ) shall absolve the owner , agent or manager of 
his responsibility under the Act, these regulations and orders made thereunder . 

30 . Duties and responsibilities of Engineers.-- The engineer and other competent 
person appointed for the purpose 
( a ) shall, subject to the orders of the manager and other superior officials 

hoid general charge of all machinery at the mine and shall be responsi 
ble for the proper installazion , maintenance and safe working of such 

machinery ; 
(b ) shall when any machinery is shifted or newly installed , see that it is given 

a trial run befrre it is put into use ; he shall be present during every 

such trial run : 
( c ) shall see that the prcvisions of the Act, regulations and orders made 

thereunder relating to the installation , maintenance , operation , or 
examiration of machinery are properly carried out by himself or by 
subordinate officials or by competent person or by workpersons, as the 

case may be , appointed for the purpose ; and 
( d ) shall, if mechanics or other subordinate officials or competent persons are 

appointed for the purpose , examine all reports , registers and other 
recids relating to "he installation , maintenance , operation or examina 
tion of machinery required to be made or k : pt in pursuance of the Act, 
the regulations and orders made thereunder, and shall countersign the 

sanie and date his signature . 
Provided that where in any mine wo or more engineers or other competent 
persons are empl yed . cvery engineer or competent person shall be rasponsible for , 
and shall perforin , the duties aforesaid in respect of such machinery as has been . 
placed under his cinroe . 

31. Dutin : I 70 : native S in Shunters.--- ( 1 ) Every Iriomotive driver 
shall, before pmironing vion in his chift, ersire that the whistle or warning bell 
and the brakes vi ihe Jocomotiyos are in proper working order , 

( 2 ) The lorongting driver shall not for the longngofive excant during hours of 
daylight I ess thicomotive is fitted with sufficient, head - lights as prescribed . 

( 3 ) The lorortives ivana shil immediate y report to the angineer or other com 
petent person , anpointer for thn jurrosa , anv Gelect which he las notic . d in the 
locomotive or any part of the fittings thereof. 

( 4 ) The locano ive driver suall not set the locomotive in motion unless the 
whistle or warning hell has heen given to rarsons whose safety mav he endangered . 
He shall also give the whistle or warning bell when the locomotive is approaching 
a level crossing or any place where any person is at work or where the driver s 
sight is intercepted . 


SEC . 2017] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 29 , 1883 


703 


( 5 ) The locomotive driver shall not leave a locomotive unattended away from 
the places where it is used , unless he has ensured that it cannot be set in motion 
by any unauthorieerd person , 

( 8 ) The loronotive drlver shall ensure that no unauthorised person drives , 
handles or rides on a locomotive. 

( 7 ) When tubs and wagons are being pushed in front of the locomotive , the 
shunter shall accompany the leading wagon , 
32. Dutlos of Magazine Incharge . -- Every magazine incharge 
(a ) shall, subject to the orders of superior officials , be responsible for the 

proper receipt , storage and issu - of explosives in and from the maga 
zine ; 


( b ) shall malntain such records of explosives so received , stored and issued 

as are required by the rules made under the Indian Explosives Act , 1884 , 
and under the Act, the regulations and orders made thercunder ; 


( c ) shall not issue explosives to any person other than a competent person 

and when explosives are returned to the magazine shall reissue such 

explosives befoie issuing fresh stock ; 
( di shall rerord in a bound paged book kept for the purpose the naine of 

varius competent persons, and the quantity and nature of explosives 
issued to each of them and shall similarly record the quantity and 

nature of explosives returned to tho magazine by each person ; 
( e ) shall securely lock each canister before issuing it to the competent person 

and shall also check whether the canister is returned to the magazine 
in locked condition . He shall not issue explosives in any canister 

which is not in proper repair or which cannot be securely locked : 
(1 ) not allow any unauthorised person to enter the magazine; and 


( g ) shall, if he discover s any shortage of explosives in the magazine, forth 

with inform the manager in writing, 
33. Duties of register keepers , attendance clorks ctc . — ( 1 ) Every person appointed 
to keep registers or other records required to be kept under the Act, the regulations 
and any orders made thereunder and to make entries therein shall make the neces 
sary entries in ink and with reasonable despatch . 

(2 ) During the whole time that persons are at work , the attendance Qerk shall 
remain on duty at the attendance cabin which shall be provided near the work 
places or in case of workings below the superjacent ground , near the outlet used 
by the workpersons to enter and leave such workings . 

( 3 ) It shall be the duty of the attendance clerk to see that no person enters tho 
mine who is not an employec of the mine or is not entitled to enter the inine under 
the Act, the regulations and orders made thereunder or is not so authorised by the 
manager ; and it any such person forcibly enters the mine, the attendance clerk shall 
immediately report the matter in writing to the manager , 


(4 ) It alter the commencement of a shift, any official or a competent person 
has not got his attendance recorded in the register maintained under sub - section 
( ) of sction 48 of the Act, the attendance clerk concerned shall within two hours 
after the commencement of the shift , report the fart in writing to the manager 
or assistant manager or other official in charge of the shift . 


34 . Dutios and responsibilities of drillers . — Every driller shall strictly observe 
the following provisions: 

( 1 ) Subject to the orders of superior officials he shall have responsible charge 
and control of the drilling operations assigned to him by the manager or assistant 
manager . 

(2 ) He shall take care that every dangerous operation is carried out with due 
precautions, 

( 3 ) He shall maintain a dally drilling report or log book in a form specified by 
the manager . 


704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 188 % 


[PART II 


( + ) He shall enter in the dillling report a record of the date on which any major 
Item of equipment is placed in service on a well. 

( 5 ) When tools are laid down for transfer to another well or to workshop , he 
shall see that all joints are slackened off . 

(6 ) A report on the condition of all equipment on each drilling well shall be 
entered by hlin once a week in the book maintained under sub -regulation ( 3 ) of 
this regulation . 

( 7 ) The day - light tool driller shall personally inspect all items such as derrick , 
erown and travelling blocks, casing line foundations and other equipment. Ho 
shall report to the superior official any defect revealed by such inspection and 
shall also record the defect in his daily drilling report . 

( 8 ) He shall see that heavy equipment are not lifted with the catline. 

(9 ) ( a ) He shall sec that under no circumstance tool or equipment is lowered 
into the drill -hole by means of the catline, unless safeguarded by means of safety 
clamps or elevators from falling down the hole . 

(b ) He shall see that elevators are checked before they are used and every week 
thereafter. A record of such examinations shall be kept by him in the drilling 
report to be maintained under sub - regulation (3 ) of this regulation . 

( 10 ) He shall record any damage to equipment in the drillers report maintained 
under sub -regulation (3 ) of this regulation , 

( 11 ) He shall see that records are kept in good working order at all times . Any 
defects noticed therein shall be reported by him to the superior omcial; and a record 
thereof shall also be kept in the drilling book , 

( 12 ) IIe shall be responsible for the safety of the well during his shift. He shall 
be also responsible for proper maintenance ol equipment and for the proper running 
of engines , pumps and draw - works. 

(13 ) He shall not lcave the well during his shift unless specially ordered to do 
so by superior official or until relieved by a driller and this fact shall be recorded 
in his drilling report . 

( 14 ) If a well shows signs of gas or oil, he shall inform the superior officials 
immerliately , le shall also take such stops as he considers necessary to control the 
well by stopping the pump , closing the circulating system and / or applying a hack 
pressure us reuel. In such a case, the smoking hụt shall be puze out of action by 
pushing it over to one side and mon shall be posted to pre / ent vehicles from 
approaching within a distance less than 90 metres of the well. 
( 15 ) If a blowout occurs and cannot be controlled , he shall 
( i) immediately withdraw all men from the vicinity of the well and assemble 

them in a suitable place , at least 90 metres away from the well; 
( 11) pull out the electric isolating switch on the mains leading to the well; 
( iii) switch off the power at the generator s switch board where a power 

house is provided at the well site ; 
( iv ) take immediate action to close down all boller batteries and open fres : 
( v ) close all roads within 270 metres of the well; and 

( vi ) inform the superior officials forthwith , 
( 16 ) He shall at the beginning of his shift, check the operation of all control 
gear and the location of boiler batteries , telephones and other necessary equipment 
so that he can take the necessary action without delay in the event of a blowout. 

(17) ( a ) When running in for a formation test , he shall feel for the bottom with 
the pipe before carrying out the testing of X -mas tree . Before starting the test 
he shall ensure that a fire brigade is standing by , the smoking huts are put out of 
action and vehicles are not allowed to approach within a distance of 90 metres of 
the well, 

( b ) He shall maintain a report of every formation test in detail in a bound paged 
book kept for the purpose. 


SEC. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 / CHAITRA 23, 1885 


705 


( 18 ) He shall remain on the derrick floor throughout when cementation work la 
being done. 

( 19) He shall ensure that the provisions of these regulations, so far as safety of 
persons are concerned are fully understood by the workers under his charge . 

( 20 ) He shall see that the derrick and the surrounding area are kept clean and 
tidy at all times, 

(21) He shall record in bound page books kept for the purpose all matters relat 
ing to safety of persons working under his charge , 

( 22 ) He shall sign all the reports required to be maintained under this regulation 
and date his signature. 

( 23 ) He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the mana 
ger for the purpose of safety , 

35 . Duties of contraband checkers . — ( 1) The person appointed to check for contra 
bands shall search every person Immediately before he enters any place in the mine 
where there is likelihood of accumulation of oil or gas to see that he does not have 
in his possession any cigar, cigarette biri or other smoking apparatus or any match 
or other apparatus of any kind capable of producing a light, Aame or spark ; 

Provided that nothing in this sub -regulation shall be deemed to prohibit the uso 
of any apparatus by a blaster for the purpose of shotfiring approved by the Chief 
Inspector. 

(2 ) ( 1 ) He shall, If he suspects any person carrying any contraband material 
mentioned in sub -regulation ( 1 ) , detain him and report the matter to the manager , 
assistant manager , foreman or other superior official. 

(h ) Any person who refuses to allow himself to be searched or who, on being 
searched is found to have in his possession any of the articles aforesaid , shall bo 
guilty of an ollence against this regulation . 


CHAPTER V – PLANS AND SECTIONS 
36 . General requirements . - ( 1 ) Every plan or section prepared , maintained or 
submitted in accordance with the provisions of these regulations shall - - 
( a ) show the name of the mine and of the owner and the purpose for which 

the plan or section is prepared . 
( b ) show the true north or the magnatic meridian and the date of the latter , 
( c ) show a scale of the plan at least 25 centimetre long and guitably sub 

divided . 
(d ) unless otherwise provided be 
(1 ) on a scale having a representative factor of 2000 . 1 in case of minog 

having underground workings and 
( li) on a scale having representative factor of 5000 : 1 in other cases . 
Provided that the Chief Inspector may by an order in writing and subject to 

such conditions as he may specify, permit or require the plans to be 
prepared on any other suitable scale ; and 


( e ) be properly inked in on durable paper or on tracing cloth and be kept 

in good condition . 


( 2 ) The plans and sections shall be accurate within such limits of error as the 
Chief Inspector may specify by a general or special order . 


( 3 ) The plans and sections required under these regulations shall be maintained 
uptodate within 3 months in case of underground workings and within 12 months 
in other cases . 


Provided that where any mine or part thereof is proposed to be abandoned the 
plans and sectpns shall be brought up - to - date before such abandonnent. 


706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[Part II -- 


(4 ) Plans and Sections required to be maintained under these regulations shall 
be kept avallable for inspection in the office of the mine and shall not be removed 
therefrom , except by or with the approval in writing of an Inspector unless a true 
copy thereof has been kept therein . 

87 . Types of plans and Sections . — ( 1 ) The owner , agent or manager of every mine 
shall keep the following plans and sections: 
( a ) A surface plan showing every surface feature within the boundaries such 

as telephone, telegraph or power transmission line, water main , tram 
llne, railway , road , river , water course , reservoir, tank , borehole , shaft 
and incline openings , opencast workings , subsidence ofl pipe lines , oil 
wells , dwellings , workshops , refineries , power house , any underground 
workings existing within 100 metres of any oil well, and such other 

features as may be required to be shown by the Regional Inspector . 
( b ) An underground plan or plans showing such particulars and features as 

may be required by the Regional Inspector by an order in writing . 
( c ) A geological plan of the area of leasehold on suitable scale specified or 

approved by the Chief Inspector by a general or special order in writing . 


( 2 ) The plans kept under these regulations shall show the settled boundary of 
the mine nr where the boundary is in dispute , the boundaries claimed by the owner 
of the mine and by the owners of the mines or lands adjacent to the disputed 
boundary . 

Provided that where it is not possible to show the complete boundary of the 
leasehold on the sume plan , an additional key plan on any other suitable scalo 
showing such boundaries shall also be maintained , 

( 3 ) The owner , agent and manager of every mine shall give all reasonable 
facilities to the surveyors of its adjacent mines to carry out the surveys and 
levellings required to be made under this sub - regulation . 

(4 ) The Regional Inspector may, by an order in writing , require such additional 
details to be shown on the plans and sections required to be kept under the regula 
tions, or require the preparation and maintenance of such other plans and sections 
showing such details and on such scale and within such time as he may specify 
in the order , 

( 5 ) The Regional Inspector may , by an order in writing require the owner, 
agent or manager to submit to him within guch time, such plans and sections, 
or tracings thereof, as he may specify in the order , 

(6 ) The owner , agent or manager shall at any time if required by an Inspector , 
show on any plan or section the existing position of the mine. 


38 . Plans to be produced . - The owner , agent or manager of every mine shall at 
any time on the request of the Chief Inspector or of any inspector produce to him 
at the office of the mine such plans and sections and also on the like request mark 
on such plans and Sections the position of the mine at that time; and the Chief 
Inspector or such Inspectors shall be entitled to examine the plans or section and 
make or have a copy made of any part thereof for official purposes. 


39 . Plang and Sections required to be submitted after abandonment.- ( 1 ) Where 
any mine is abandoned the person who was the owner of the ring at the Hin . of 
abandonment shall, within one month after the abandonment of the workings sub 
mit to the Chief Inspector two true copies of the uptodate plans and sections of 
the mine up to the time of abandonment. 


Provided that if a change of ownership occurs after the abandonment and 
before the expiry of one month aforesaid , such plans and sections shall be submit 
ted forthwith . 


( 2 ) The plans and sections submitted under this regulation shall show the posl 
trong of all oll wells , boreholes with the dates of their abandonment or discontinu 
ance, the bearing and distance of at least one oll -well from two trijunctions, or 
revenue pillars or from any other two prominent and permanent surface features . 

( 3 ) The Chief Inspector may , on such conditions as he thinks At to impose and 
on payment of the cost of preparing copies as determined by him , gupply copies of 


Ser. 9 (i) 


THE GAZETIF OF INDIA . APRIL 19 , 1969 /CHAITRA 29 , 1385 


707 


a plan or section submitted to him under sub -regulation ( 1) or such parts thereof 
as he thinks fit 

( a ) to any person having a bona fide interest in the mine or part; or 

(b ) to the owner, agent or manager of an adjacent mine. 
40 , Lists of plans, sections and instrumuits and their storage . - ( 1 ) All plans and 
sections, and tracings or copies thereof, kept at a mine shall be serially numbered 
or suitably indexed . 

( 2 ) Suitable arrangements shall be inade at every mine for the proper storage 
and maintenance of every plan and section and of all instruments and materials . 
Such arrangements shall, unless otherwise permitted by the Chief Inspector by en 
order in writing and subject to such conditions us he may specify , provide for flat 
storage of every plan and section maintained under clauses ( a ) and ( b ) of sub -regu 
lation ( 1 ) of regulation 37 . 


( 3 ) Every field book and other notes used in the preparation of plans and sec 
Lions required under the regulations shall be duly Indexed and kept in the offico 
at the mine. 


( 4 ) A list of all plans and sections maintained under these regulations and 
under any orders made thereunder, and tracings or copies thereof; of all survey 
instruments , with their respective types , specifications and Identification numbers : 
and of all field books and other notes kept under sub -regulation ( 3 ) shall be kept 
in a bound pag d book kept for the purpose , and shall be brought up - to -date 
whenever necessary Every entry in the book shall be signed and dated by the 
surveyor , and countersigned and dated by the manager . 

41. Preparation of plans by surveyorg ,- - ( 1 ) Every plan and section , and tracine 
thereof, prepared under the rcgulations shall be prepared by or under the personal 
supervision of a surveyor appointed under regulation 17 . 


( 2 ) Every plan or section , or any part thereof, prepared by or under the personal 
supervision of a surveyor shall carry thereon a certificate by him to the effect that 
the plan or section or part thereof is correct, and shall be signed and dated by the 
surveyor and countersigned and dated by the inanager on every occasion that the 
plan or section is brought up - to - date . 


( 3 ) Every tracing of a plan or section , or of any part thereof, shall bear refer 
enco to the original plan or section from which it was copied and shall be certified 
thereon by the surveyor to be a true copy of the original plan or section . The 
wertificate shall be signed and dated by him . 


( 4 ) If the surveyor fails or omits to show any part of the mine or allow any 
plan or section to be inaccurate , he shall be quilty of a breach of these regulations: 
Provided that nothing in this regulation shall exempt the owner , agent or manager 
of his responsibijity to ensure that every plan or section prepared , kept or submit 
ted under these regulations or by an order made thereunder is correct and main 
tained up - to -date Q8 required thereunder . 


42 . Plans and Sections to be checked on change of ownership or re - opening - 
( 1 ) When there is a change in the ownership of a mine, or where a mine or part 
thereof is reopened , the owner , agent or manager shall ensure that the plans and 
sections of the mine or part thereof are accurate . If any doubt arises as to the 
accuracy of the plans and sections in any respect, he shall have accurate plans and 
sertions prepared afresh before any work is commenced . 


( 2 ) If the Regional Inspector is of opinion that any plan or section prepared , 
kept or submitted under these regulations is inaccurate , he may , by an order in 
writing, require a fresh survey made and a new plan or section prepared within 
such time as he may specify therein , 


( 3 ) If the plan or section required to be prepared under sub - regulation ( 2 ) is 
not prepared within the time specified in the order or to the satisfaction of the 
Regional Inspector, or the plan or section is not prepared or brought up - to - date as 
required under these regulations , he lay get the plan or section prepared by any 
other agency ; and the cost thereof, as certified by the Chief Inspector, shall be 
defrayed by the owner of the mine and recoverable from him as an arrear of land 
revenue. 


708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1968 / CHAITRA 29, 1885 


[Part II 


CHAPTER VI– MASTS AND DERRICKS 


43 . Construction of derricks and Masts , and their accessories - ( 1 ) ( a ) Every 
derrick and mast and their component parts shall be strictly constructed and shall 
be kept in good repair . 

(b ) Every derrick and mast in operation shall be supported on a strictly con 
structed foundation . 

( c ) No derrick or mast or the foundation supporting the same shall be subjected 
to a load greater than what the structure or its foundation can reasonably withstand , 

( 2 ) ( a ) Every crown block shall be strictly constructed of suitable material 
other than cast Iron and shall be kept in good repair . 


( b ) Every crown block and its sheave shall be securely fastened in place in a 
manner that will prevent it from juinping out of its bearings or becoming acci 
dentally shifted or dislodged , 

( 3 ) Fingers, finger boards and Anger braces shall be constructed of sound mate 
rial , be of adequate strength and shall be installed in the derrick or mast in such 
a manner as to safely withstand the stresses imposed on them by pipe or other 
equipment racked in the derrick or mast. 

(4 ) Back -up and safety lines shall be constituted of wire rope of adequate 
strength to withstand the stresses imposed on them . The end fastenings used on 
the rope shall be of an approved type , 

(5 ) If any doubt arises whether the construction of stairways, ramps, walkways, 
ladders , platforms, railings and toe -boards are of proper design , the matter shall 
be referred to the Chief Inspector for decision . 

44. Erection of Masts . - ( 1 ) Every portable telescopink mast shall be equipped 
with a safety device designed to engage automatically so as to prevent the upper 
section of the mast from falling at an unsafe speed if the lifting mechanism falls 
when the upper telescoping section is being raised or lowered . 

( 2 ) Every telescoping Gin Pole mast shall be equipped with an efficient locking 
dovice for holding the top telescoping section of the mast in its extended working 
position . 

( 3 ) Every telescoping , Jack -knife and Gin pole mast in use at a well shall be 
adequately guyed with a system of substantial construction . 

( 4 ) Every portable cantilever mast shall be provided with suitable means to 
prevent it from collapsing as a result of wind velocity . 

45 Crown Platforms. - ( 1 ) Every portable and stationary gin pole mast ( except 
ing a mast of telescopic type ) shall be equipped with a crown safety platform to 
provide access to the crown block : Provided that where lines can be reeved on 
crown block sheaves by a worker standing on the mast ladder , a ladder safety cage 
may be provided in lieu of the crown safety platform . 

( 2 ) Every crown safety platform shall be not less than 60 centimeters square 
in area and its outer edges, except on the ladder side, shall be equipped with 
suitable fallings and toe -board ; and every ladder safety cage shall be not less than 
one metre long and at yuch an elevation as will provide adequatc protection 
against persons talling from the ladder, 


( 3 ) Where the access to the crown safety platform is by means of a ladder on 
the outer edge of the platform , the ladder shall terminate at the platform level : 
Provided that where the access is by means of a ladderway opening in the platform ; 

( a ) the opening shall not be less than 60 centimetres square; 
(b ) the platform shall be so designed that the ladderway opening is clear 

and unobstructed to a distance of at least 50 centimetres outwards on 

the climbing side; and 
(c ) the ladder shall extend at least one metre above the platform level un 

less suitable handholds are provided . 


( 4 ) On every telescoping Gin Pole mast, adequate provision shall be made to 
lubricate the crown block sheaves in a safe manner. 


Sec. 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 / CHAITRA 23 , 1887 


709 


46 . Other Platforms and Access Runways. - ( 1 ) Platforms shall be provided on 
masts for workers to stand on to handle pipes , sucker rods or other cquipment 
racked in or on the mast. These platforms shall not be less than 45 centimetres 
in width at any place and shall completely cover the space between the working 
edges and the main structural members to which they are secured. 

( 2 ) Access runways or platforms, not less than 30 centimetres in width at any 
place , shall be provided between the mast ladder ind the pipe and sucker rod 
platforms. The distance between the access runway or platform on the one side 
and the ladder or the pipe or sucker rod platform on the other shall not be more 
than 45 centimetres . 

(3 ) A platform not less than 60 centimetres in width shall be provided comple 
tely across each outer side of the mast adjacent to and level with the ends of the 
pipe - racking support . 

47 . Ladders for Masts . - ( 1 ) ( a ) Every Gin Pole Mast shall he equipped with a 
fixed ladder or ladders or pole steps so arranged as to provide sate access from 
the ground or floor level, or from the bed of the vehicle on which the mast is 
mounted , to each platform on the mast : 

Provided that in a case of a telescoping tupe Gin Pole Mast such ladders or 
pole steps shall also be provided down to the top of the lower section of the mast . 

( b ) Before a worker performs any work at the crown block level of a telescop 
type gin -pole mast, in its operating position at a well, the upper section of the 
mast shall be lowered to a point where the work can be performed from the ladder 
on the lower section of the mast, unless access is provided to the crown block by 
means of a fixed ladder having a safety cage at the crown block level, 

( 2 ) Every mast other than a Gin Pole mast shall be equipped with a fixed ladder 
or ladders so as to provide safe access from the ground , the floor level or from the 
vehicle bed on which it is mounted , to the crown safety platform and to any inter 
vening Axed platform in or on the mast , 

48 Dorrick Floors , and Platforms. — ( 1 ) ( a ) Every derrick floor shall cover the 
area within the perimeter of the derrick tower completely except for such portions 
of the area and for such openings in the floor as are necessary for the drilling and 
connected opcrations, 

( b ) If the derrick floor is more than 60 centimetrng above ground level, it shall 
extend to at least 60 centimetres beyond the climbing side of the ladder and the 
extendrd portion of the floor shall be not less than 120 centimetres in width . 

( 2 ) ( a ) An inside derrick plattorm shall be provided in the derrok tower at 
each elevation where persons are normally required to handle plpes, sucker rods 
or other equipment racked in the derrick tower 

( b ) The working edge of every inside derrick platform shall be placed with 
suficient clearance for safe passage of the travelling block and to permit the 
workers working on it to safely reach the elevator. 

( c ) Every Inside derrick platform shall completely cover the space from the 
working edge hack to the derrick girts The space between the derrick girt and 
a monkey board at its rormal point of access shall also he completely covered 


( d ) Every inside derrick platform shall have the decking at each end and near 
the working side effectively secured to the derrick girts or other platform supports : 
Provided that every platform of monkey board type may be otherwise effectively 
secured to the derrick . 


( e ) A vertical clearance of at least two metres shall be maintained above the 
derking of each Inside derrick platform . 


(1 ) No inside derrick platform shall be in such a position that the hoisting line 
running to the holst drum , will run through , or run in contact with the platform 
unless provisions have been made to prevent the platform from being damaged by 
the line and the line is adequately guarded to prevent workers working on the 
platform contacting it . 


( 8 ) No inside derrick platform shall be installed in a derrick in such a position 
that it would obstruct the sight of the drillers or hofst operators to either the crown 
block or the travelling block at any point of its travel, 


710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIJ , 13 , 1963 / CHAITRA 29 , 1885 


[Part II 


( 17 ) An inside derrick platform which is more than one metre above the outside 
derrick platform which serves it and to which the main derrick ladder does not 
provide direct access , shall have access provided thereto by means of an auxiliary 
ludder from the outside derrick platform below to a point not less than ane metre 
above the inside platform , 

( 1) A finger , finger brace or finger board shall not be used as a principal Inside 
derrick platform . 

( 3 ) ( a ) Every derrick used for drilling or redrilling and except where permitted 
by the Regional Inspector by an order in writing and subject to such conditions 48 
he may specify therein every derrick used for well servicing , shall have a continu 
Uus outside derrick platform at least 60 centimetres wide completely around the 
uerrick , at an elevation not more than 60 centimetres above and not more than 
1 3 metres below the principal inside derrick platform . 

(b ) Every derrick used for well servicing and every derrick used for drilling or 
redrilling shall have an outside derrickplattorm at least 60 centimetres wido 
across that side of the derrick in which the inside derrick rod board platform and 
each auxiliary inside derrick platform as the case may be, are located . The out 
side derrick platform shall be paralles to the longest side of the inside platform , 
shall be not inore than 60 centimetres from the adjacent derrick legs and shall be 
at an elevation of not more than 60 centimetres above and not more than 1 . 5 
metres below the inside platform . 

( c ) The vertical clearance hetween the outside derrick platforms shall not be 
less than two metres , 

( d ) Direct access shall be provided to each outside derrick platforın by tlie main 
derrick adder or by an auxiliary derrick ladder from any lower outsiile derrick 
platform to which main derrick ladder provides direct access , 

14 ) Every derrick used for drilling , re -drilling or well servicing shall be pro 
vided with a continuous platform at least 60 centimetres wide completed around 
the outer edges of the derrick crown and such derrick crown platform shall be at 
an elevation that will provide access to the crown block , 

49 . Derrick Ladders and ladder openings. — Every derrick shall be equipped with 
a fixed ladder or ladders providing access from the derrick floor to the derrick 
Crown platform and to each intervening outside derrick platform . Every such lad 
der shall comply with the provisions of regulation 51. 

50 . Derrick Gin Pole . - ( 1 ) A derrick gın pole or other equivalent means shall 
be provided on every derrick tower when it is necessary to raise or lower the crown 
block to or from the top of the derrick tower , 

( 2 ) A derrick gin pole shall not be subject to a load greater than the load which 
the design and the condition of the structure will withstand . 

( 3 ) Every derrick gin pole used to handle a crown block shall have sufficient 
height above the derrick crown (water table ) to permit the crown block to be 
ralsed to a point at least 80 ce imetres in the clear above the top of the water 
table . 


hall be co the domes 


( 4 ) When a derrick gin pole ised to instal a crown block , access shall be 
provided to the top of the derrick gu role by means of a fixed ladder . 


51. Ladders for Masts and Derricks.- - ( 1 ) (i ) Every ladder provided on a nast 
or derrick shall be strongly constructed of metal, and secured to the mast with 
safe fastenings . The top end of each terminating ladder of ladder section provid 
ing access to any Axed platform in or on a mast and the top end of each ladder of 
ladder section providing access to the derrick crown platform , outside derrick plat 
form , ladder offset platform , inside derrick platform , monkey board platform or 
any Axed platform on or in a derrick shall extend not less than one metre above 
the platform : Provided that a mast ladder may not be so extended it suitable 
hand -holds are provided . 

( it) Rest platforms not less then 30 centimetres deep and 45 centimetros wido 
shall be provided al intervals not exceeding 12 metres along the ladder rung 
Ladder offsets if any shall be located at ladder platforms only . Suitable hand . 
holds shall be provided at a convenient height above every rest platform , 

(iil) No ladder shall lean backward from the vertical or shall lean sideways 
more than 3 degrees from the vertical in case of derrick ladders or more than 5 


Sec . 8(1) 


THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1969 /CHAITRA 28 , 1886 


II 


degrees from the vertical in case of mast ladders ; Provided that ladders for can 
tiliver type masts shall not lean sideways more than 3 degrees . 

(iv ) Ladders shall be so constructed that the rungs or steps are approximately 
horizontal at the normal operating position of the mast, and shall not be inclined 
more than 2 degrees from the horizontal In any case . 

( v ) The width of every ladder sliall be not less than 30 centlinetręs measured 
1rom the inside of the side ralls . The rung or step spacing shall be un forni and 
parallel, and shall be between 30 centimetres and 40 centimetres centre to centre , 
The lowest rung or step of the ladder or ladder section shall be not more than 40 
centimetres above the ground floor or platform landing. The clear space between 
the rungs or steps shall be not less than 15 centimetres in case of mast ladders 
and 20 centimetres in case of derrick ladders, 

(vi) On the climbing side of the ladder there shall be maintained a clear and 
unobstrurted space not less than 60 centimetres square along its whole length 
except at platforms. 

(vil ) Throughout the length and width of the back of the ladder , & pace not 
less than 10 centimetres shall be maintained clear of all obstruction , 


( 2 ) Openings shall be provide in every platform 
clin ; lving a adder , so that , 


to permit passage of meru 


( 1 ) the width of the opening parallel to the ladder width shall be between 

55 centimetres and 75 centimetres and the ladder shall be placed 
midway along the width of the opening. 


(ii) the opening shall be clear and unobstructed to a distance of at least 30 

centimetres outwards from the front of the ladder rungs or steps . 


( iii ) there shall be a clearance of at least 50 centimetres between platform 

railings and toe -boards and the ladder rungs or steps. 


62 . Toe Boards and Rgillngs. — The outer edges of all platform shall be equipped 
with adequate toe -board protection not less than 30 centimetres high and with 
rallings to the satisfaction of the Regional Inspector . 


Jei. Sutety Belts and Life Lines .- - ( 1 ) A safety belt and llle line shall be pro 
vided for each worker working at derrick or inast at a height of more than 3 metres 
above the derrick or mast floor or more than 3 metres above the ground level it 
there is no floor . The worker shall wear the safety belt and shall see that it is 
securely fastened to a substantial support by the life line, unless the worker is 
otherwise protested against the danger of falling or is engaged in such work AS 
may necessitate his continuous moving from one location to another. 


( 2 ) Every safety belt (including buckles , rings , snaps and other fittings which 
are depended on to sustain a falling person shall be of a type approved by the 
Chief Inspector and shall, in any case be constructed to withstand a stress caused 
by a weight of 90 kilogramme dropping a vertical distance of 1 . 8 metres . 


( 3 ) All safety belt life lines shall be not less than 2 centimetres in diameter and 
shall be constructed of three stand manila rope or other material of equivalent 
strength , which shall withstand & stress caused by a weight of 90 kilogrammes 
dropping a distance of 1 . 8 metres, 


( 4 ) All safety belts and life lines shall be maintained in good condition . If any 
question arises as to the ability of a safety belt or a life line to withstand the drop 
test, it shall be referred to the Chief Inspector for decision , 


54 . Tools and equipment in derricks or masts .- - ( 1 ) Only such tools , equipment 
or materials as are essential to Operations shall be kept t a derrick or must at an 
elevation above the floor and adequate provisions shall be made to prevent them 
from falling . 


( 2 ) While laying blown or picking up pipe or sucker rods or other equipment 
with elevators, adequate precaution shall be taken to see that workers are not 
endangered by falling of pipe , rods or other equipment. 


712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1968 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


(PART LI 


= 


CHAPTER VII - DRILLING AND PRODUCTION 


55 . General Provisions. — ( 1 ) Drilling and well servicing machinery used at a 
well shall be strongly constructed and shall be kept in good repair and safe operat 
ing condition 

(2 ) The machinery shall be so installed and secured in place that it will with 
stand the stresses imposed on it. 


56 . Drilling operations , — ( 1 ) After drilling commcices through a casing string , 
a check shall be made on the tightness of all well head bolts once at least in every 
week by the driller or other competent person appointed for the purpose . The 
result of every such examination shall be recorded in a bound paged book , 

( 2 ) ( a ) After installation and before drilling out cement , all pumps shall be 
pressure tested with water to within 35 kg . per squaro centimetre of the pressure 
reading of the fittings or to three -quarters of the bursting pressure of the casing 
string, whichever is less . Provided , however , that the test pressure may be modi 
fled taking into account the hydraustatic head of mud in the casing and the forma 
tion pressures to be expected . 

(b ) In the case of deep exploration wells and in development wells where drill 
ing la prolonged , pressure testing as specifed in clause ( a ) above shall be carried 
out at intervals of not more than three weeks using a casing packer to prevent 
breaking down the formation in the open hole . 

(3 ) The manifold valves shall always be kept in the fully open or fully closed 
position and shall not be left in the neutral position . 

57 Safety during drilling operations. - ( 1 ) No person shall wear loose gardienis 
when at or around a drilling rig . 

( 2) No rubher -soled foot wear shall be worn by workers. 

( 3 ) Every member of a drilling crew shall use a safety belt while working on 
the derrick . The safety belt shall be securely attached to the derrick and shall 
not be disconnected while working. 

( 4 ) No member of the crew shall attempt to work both the cathcad and the 
engine throttle at the same time. 

( 5 ) No member of the crew shall stand behind the tongs while making up or 
breaking out drill pipe or casing. 

(6 ) No member of the crew shall ride up to the fourble on the travelling block . 


( 7 ) No member of, the crew shall attempt to start i single cylinder engine by 
putting his foot on the spokes of the fly -wheel; the fly -wheel shall be turned by 
hand . 


(8 ) No member of the crew shall interfere with the electrical lighting or Instru 
ments on the well. 

(9 ) No person shall smoke exrept in the smoking huts provided for the purpose. 


( 10 ) (a ) No member of a Crew shall attempt to carry out repairs or to approach 
closely to any moving machinery such as draw -works shaft or chains. Il repairs 
are necessary to any part of the transmission in the case of diesel draw -works, the 
engine shall first be shut down and all clutches put in the off position . 


(b ) In the case of steam draw -works, the emergency valve shall be closed and 
a responsible person shall be statioried at the throttle value control to guard 
against the engine being accidentally started up . 


( 11 ) Loose ends of chains, ropes, belting and such other material shall be kept 
well clear of all moving machinery . 

(12 ) Inspection or repair of a pump shall not be done in running condition 

58 . Brakos. — ( 1 ) The hydromatic brake wher installed , shall be uscd at all 
times as soon as the bit has been lowered through the table . 


SEC. 9 (1)] 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 /CHAIIRA 23 , 188 


713 


( 2 ) Water shall be passed through brake rims when running in and pulling out 
and during fast drilling or reaming, 


( 3 ) ( a ) The brakes for hoist druns for oil servicing machinery and for drilling 
machinery shall be capable of sustaining and safely controlling the lowering of 
the load being handled , 

(b ) The brake rims of holst drums shall be constructed of steel or alloys of 
equivalent strength . 

( c ) All parts of the brake control mechanism for hoist drums shall be guarded 
against contact with a running or breaking drive chain or drive belt so as to 
prevent the probability of such contact rendering the brakes Ineffective or Inopera 
tive . 

89 . Emergency Stop Devices and Brakes , - ( 1 ) An emergency stop device shall 
be provided for every prime mover for drilling and well servicing machinery . The 
device shall be such that once placed in the stop position , it must be manually 
reset to the starting or running position before the prime mover can be started . 

( 2 ) The controls for the emergency stop devices shall be located at the operator s 
station so that he can stop the prime mover promptly in emergency, provided , 
however , that nothing in this sub - regulation shall prohibit installation of additional 
controls at other locations, 

60 . Guarding of Drilling , Well - servicing and oil Pumping machinery - - The 
following provisions shall apply to every rotary drilling machinery, standard tool 
drilling machinery , well servicing machinery , oil well puinping machinery and 
their component parts and prime movers : 

( 1 ) Every power transmission equipment, prime Inover, and machine part of 
rotary drilling equipment shall be adequately guarded in a proper and safe manner . 
If any dispute arises whether any guard is safe or adequate it shall be referred to 
the Chief Inspector for decision , 

( 2 ) Every sprocket and chain shall be enclosed to prevent accidental contact of 
workers with the moving parts . The enclosure shall be constructed of heavy metal, 
strong enough to withstand the impact of a broken chain and shall he securely 
fastened in plare otherwise than by lag screws, spikes , or nails . 


( 3 ) Evcry rotating shafting and collar , clutch , coupling or other similar rotating 
part, except a cathead shall be guarded against accidental contact, by an enclosure 
type guard , trough or shield guard . 


( 4 ) Every rotary table gear in motion shall be enclosed with a strongly con 
structed metal guard , 


(5 ) A strongly constructed metal step not less than 15 centimetre wide and 
having rough trcad surface shall be provided around the top outer surfaces of 
every rotary table upon which it is normally necessary for workers to stand to 
perform their operating duties provided , however , the metal step may be removed 
during nperations which do not require the rotary table to be set in motion , 


61. Oil Well Pumping Machinery.. . All types o1 machinery used for pumping an 
oil well , including the prime movers shall comply with the following provisions : 


( 1 ) Oil well puinping machinery shall not be permitted in the derrick or on 
the derrick or mast floor when a well is being drilled or rcdrilled . 


( 2 ) Oil well pumping machinery shall be strongly constructed and kept in good 
repair and it shall be so installed and secured in place as to withstand the stresses 
imposed upon it. 

( 3 ) Access shall be provided to the top of the walking beam at its point of 
attachment to the samson post by means of a fixed continuous ladder from the 
floor or working level to a point not less than 30 centimetres below the top of the 
beam and not more than 30 centimetres horizontally from the beam , unless other 
equally safe means of access is provided . 

( 4 ) If the top of the walking beam at Its point of attachment to the samson post 
1s more than three metres above the foor or working level and it is necessary for 
workers to perform operating duties on the walking beam such as removal, dis 


714 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 13 , 1963 / CHAII RA 23 , 1885 


[Part II 


placement, replacement or adjustment of the late hat sehead, the workers shall be 
safeguarded by 
( a ) a strongly constructed and securely fastened hand rail provided on 

either side of the beam ; the top of the railing shall not be less than 
75 centimetres and not more than one metre above the top of the 
beam and shall extend from a potht adjacent to the ladder providing 
access to the top of the beam to within 60 centinétres of the horse 

head ; or 
(b ) a portable ladder securely fastened in place while in use and so located 

as to provide access to the point on the beam where such duties are 

being performed ; or 
( c ) an overhead lifeline suspended from the derrick or mast to which the 

safety belt of the worker performing such duties 18 secured . 
( 5 ) Adequate arrangements shall be made to enable bearings on the walking 
beam requiring lubrication to be lubricated safety from the floor or ground level 
or from the ladder or from a runway or plattorm . 

62. Punps and Pump Pressure - Relieving Safely Devices - ( 1 ) Pumps shall not 
be operated ut unsafe speed or In excess of their safe working pressure. 

( 2 ) (a ) Where the power for driving a pump is such that there is a likelihood 
of developing a pressure in the pump in excess of its safe working pressure , the 
pump shall be equipped with an adequate pressure -relieving safety device . 
( b ) There shall be no intervening stop valves between the pump and its 

pressure - relicving devico , nor between the pressure -relieving device 
and the point of vischarge which would render the pressure relieving 

device inerfective . 
( c ) Every pressure -relieving device shall be so installed as to ensure its pro 

per operation and so set as to relieve at a pressure not in excess of 10 

per cent above the allowable safe working pressure . 
( 3) Adequate crainage shall be provided to prevent the arcumulation of olls are 
drilling fluids around pump hayes. 

( 4 ) Pumps handling light oils, corrosives , or any fluid at a temperature over 
93°C shall be cyuipped with suutable shields cr covers to protect workers from the 
hazards of liculd spray . 

( 5 ) ( a ) Every pumy shall be equipped with a bleeder pipe and valve through 
which the pressure in any part of the pump can be bled off to atmospheric or as 
near atmospheric pressure as is practicable , unless other piping and valves connec 
ted to the pump can be effectively used for this purpose . 

(b ) Before beginning the removal of any cap , plug , plate or cover from a pump 
or otherwise opening a pump, the pressure within the pump shall be bled of to 
atmospheric , or as near utmosplieric pressure as is practicable . 

63. Guarding of Shenveg. - All crown block sheaves, sand line sheaves and all 
Bheaves on which holsting ropes are run for raising or lowering the mast between 
the horizontal and vertical positions and for raising or lowering the top telescoplag 
section of the mast , shall be provided with a device to avoid the possibility of 
ropes running off the side of the sheave, 

14. Travelling Blocks and Hooks, - ( 1 ) Every travelling block and every travell 
ing block hook and every component part thereof shall be substantially consiructed 
and kept in goud repair and operating condition . 

( 2 ) No travelling block , travelling block hook or other component part thereof 
shall be subjected to a load in excess of what it can safely withstand . 

( 3 ) The sheaves of every travelling block shall be guarded with suitable heavy 
metal nip -point guards securely fastened to the block , 

( 4 ) Every travelling block hook shall be equipped with a substantially construc 
ted and securely fastened safety latch or other suitable device to close the opening 
in the hook and to prevent the load frun hecoming disengaged from the hook . 

( 5 ) All equipment attached elther directly or indirectly to and suspended from 
the travelling block hook shall be securely fastened . 


Gre , 341)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


715 


65. Hoisting Lines. This regulation shall apply to wire rope hoisting lines used 
for hoisting or lowering pipe or sucker rods in a well . 

( 1 ) All chains, wire ropes, Abre ropes used for hoisting purposes shall be of ade 
quate streigth and shall not be subjected to loads or stresses exceeding one- eighth 
of their breaking strength . 

( 2 ) A competent person appointed by the owner , agent or manager shall inspect 
hoisting lines once at leaot in every week for wear or broken wires or marked corro 
sion and other damages that may reduce the gtrength of the line to a point where 
it will not safely lift or otherwise handle the lead . 

Provided that the interval of such inspections shall be reduced , depending on the 
nature and amount of work performed by the line. 

( 3 ) No spliced hoisting lines shall be used . 

( 4 ) The hoisting line shall be securely fastened to the hoist drum and there shall 
be sufficient length of the line on the drum to permit the travelling block to be laid 
horizontally on the derrick or mast floor . 

( 5 ) Wire rope sacket when used on a hoisting line shall be attached to the line 
in a manner approved by the Chief Inspector by a general or special order in writing . 

66 . Handling Heavy Tools at Drilling Wells . At every drilling well, adequate 
provisions shall be made for the sale handling of heavy tools between the trans 
porting vehicle and the derrick or inast floor or storage platform , 

87 . Weight Indicators . — ( 1 ) Where wire rope hoisting lines are used , a weight 
Indicator shall be provided and used at every drilling anul redrilling well and in 
other wells when pulling pipes 10 centimetres or more in diameter . 

( 2 ) The weight indicator shall he so constructed . Installed and maintained that 
It will register close indication of the load suspended from the holsting lines . 

08 . Catheads for well drilling and well servicing machinery. - ( 1 ) The projecting 
shaft end and key or other device for securing a cathead to the shaft shall be 
covered with a smooth thimble of such a shape and design as will prevent the 
winding of a rope around it . 

( 2 ) Every cathead on which a rope is manually operated shall have a reasonably 
smooth surface and shall be free from projections on which workers clothing may 
be caught. 


( 3) Cracked or broken catheads shall not be used . 

( 4 ) Every cathead shall be provided with suitable anti rope - fouling device and 
rope guides which shall be maintained in safe working order. 


( 5 ) Rotating and reciprocating parts of every automatic cathead , shall be guarded 
by guards of suitable design . 

(8 ) Automatic catheads and their mechanism shall be maintained in good repair . 

69 . Lines Used on Catheads, - ( 1 ) Suitable precautions shall be taken to prevent 
entanglement of other lines with a line in use on & cathead , 

( 2 ) No manually operated line shall be left wrapped and unattended on A 
cathead . 

( 3 ) ( a ) An experienced compstent person shall be at the controls of a cathead 
on which rope is being manually operated , 

(b ) When a cathead is operated by a prime mover an emergency stop device 
for the prinie mover shall always be located at the cathead . 

(4 ) ( a ) Wire rope lines used on automatic catheads shall have adequate strength 
to withstand the stresses imposed on them . 

(b ) The rope lines shall be fastened to A cathead in a safe manner. 

(5 ) Cathead , and high Ines shall be of adequate strength to safely lift or other 
wise handle the loads. 

( 8 ) No chain shall be used with any cathead except as a spinning line. 


716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART II 


( 7 ) No chain shall be used in any spinning line with an automatic cathead , unless 
such cathead is equipped with a manually operable cathead clutch or other device 
adequate to keep rotation of the cathead under control at all times it is in use . 
Such clutch or device shall be of a type that will automatically release when not 
manually held in the engaged position , 

(8 ) Chain used in a spinning line shall be of a type approved by Chief Inspector . 

(9 ) ( a ) Every chain used in a spinning line shall have a Abre tail rope , not less 
than thirty centimetres in length , securely fastened to the end of the chain at the 
pipe, 

(b ) When such spinning line is being used to rotate a pipe , the worker handling 
the pipe end of the line shall hold to the tall rope and not to the chain . 

( 10 ) ( a ) Every spinning line that contains chain , unless manually operated at a 
cathead , shall have a Abre rope securely fastened to the cathead end of the chain 
and the strength of such rope shall not exceed that of the chain , 

(b ) Only Aibre rope part of the line may be permitted to come in contact with 
the cathead and not the chain . 

( 11 ) No spliced chain , defective chain or a worn chain or a chain with link 
having diameter less than 90 per cent of the original cross - section shall be used 
as a spinning line, 

70 . Miscellaneous Tools and Equlpment. - ( 1 ) When there is fluid inside a 
length of a pipe above the derrick or mast floor that is being disconnected from 
the pipe in the well, a substantially constructed wet box shall be provided and 
used to prevent, as far as is practicable , fuid spraying on the workers on the floor . 

( 2 ) Where experience indicates that the well has sufficient gas pressure to 
cause the well to flow or that hazardous quantities of gas may be released , an oil 
gaver shall be provided and used when swabbing a well and when balling a well , 

( 3 ) An oil saver shall be provided and used when perforating for oil or gas 
production in a well that has sufficient gas pressure to cause the well to flow . 

( 4 ) Oil savers when used shall be installed and maintained in a manner to 
convey the fuld being swabbed or that may flow , to a safe place of disposal and 
prevent, as far as is practicable, fluid spray on the derrick or magt. 

( 5 ) Drill pipe slip handles shall be short enough so that they will not project 
beyond the inner edge of the metal step around the top outer edge of the rotary 
table when the slips are in position to hold the pip - in the rotary table . 

( 6 ) ( a ) In well servicing operation , a torsion gtress shall not be applied to a 
string of sucker rods in a well by the use of any wrench , tong or tool other than 
a power driven tong or device or a substantially constructed manually operated 
wheel type wrench . 

( b ) The ream of a wheel type wrench shall be free of any projection on which 
workers clothing may be caught. 

( 7 ) No tool or device of any kind shall be used in connection with a wheel typo 
wrench as a 17 eans of additional leverage . 

( 8 ) ( a ) Wire rope slings used to suspend sucker rods or other equipment rack 
ed in a derrick or mast shall not be subjected to a load greater than that which 
they can withstand . 

(b ) End fastenings on such slings shall be of adequate strength . 

( c ) The person working in the derrick shall examine the slings before rods 
or other equipment are suspended from the slings . 

( d ) No defective rope slings shall be used . 

71. General Safety Provisions and Precautions. - - ( 1 ) The reeving of the holst 
ing line on to the sheaves of a travelling block shall be done at the derrick floor 
level. 

( 2 ) A hand line shall be provided and used to carry a cat line, drilling line, 
-band line, hoisting line or other such lines up the derrick and over the sheaves , 
unless there is already a line at the top of the derrick suitable for the purpose . 


Src . 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRII. 13, 1963 / CHAITRA 28 , 1885 


717 


( 3 ) Workers shall not be required or permitted to ride the hoisting line, travel 
ling block , travelling block hook , the elevators or any of the equipment suspend 
ed from the travelling block , except in an emergency . 

(4 ) Workers shall not be required or permitted to ride the cat line except to 
perform duties of a temporary or emergency nature which cannot be performed 
by a worker from an inside derrick platform , stabbing board or the derrick or mast 
floor. Such work of temporary or emergency nature shall be done from a loop 
formed by tying a bowline - knot in the cat line or sitting in a boatswain s chair 
securely tied to the cat line or other equally safe or secure carriage . 

( 5 ) All counterweights shall be enclosed with a guard which shall extend from 
the working level to at least the midpoint of the counterweight when it is in its 
highest position or shall be otherwise guarded to afford at least equivalent pro 
tection , unless they are so located that their falling would create no hazard or 
the area below the counterweight is effectively barricated against passage. 

72. Stabbing Board . — A stabbing board shall be provided for and uscd by a 
worker where a platform is necessary for regular operating duties and the work 
cannot be safely performed from a fixed platform or monkey board . 

73 . Line Spoolers and Dead Line Stabilizer . - ( 1 ) ( a ) Line spoolers and dead 
Jine stabilizers shall be strongly constructed , installed and maintained so that 
they will minimize the probability of eye injuries to workers from shavings, 
splinters and loose particles. 

(b ) Rotary chain shall not be used as a line spooler or stabilizer . 

( 2 ) The sheaves and roolers of line spoolers shall be provided with a strongly 
constructed and securely fastened guards that will prevent them from falling 
should they become accidentally dislodged . 

74 . Rotary and Circulating Hose and Standpipe. - ( 1 ) The upper end of the 
rotary hose standpipe shall be securely fastened to the derrick or mast log or to 
the derrick or mast girts or other equivalent support. 

( 2 ) The standpipe end of the rotary hose shall be secured to the standpipe or 
to the derrick or mast and the other end to the swivel by a strongly constructed 
clamp and safety chain or wire rope. 

( 3 ) The ends of connecting hose sections shall be secured together by means 
of clamps and a safety chain or wire rope, 

( 4 ) When hose or pipe, in addition to that section between the swivel and 
stand pire, is used under pressure in a fuid circulating system of a well, the ends 
of cach section of hose shall be secured to the end of the adjoining hose or pipe 
in the manner described in sub - regulation ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this regulation . 

175 . Derrick Walk and Pipe Storage ( 1 ) A strongly constructed derrick walk 
and pipe storage rack shall be provided at every drilling well. 

( 2 ) The derrick walk and the pipe storage rack shall be kept in good repair , 


CHAPTER VIII - BIG BUILDING 


76 . Rig Butiding : - ( 1 ) A completely assembled derrick tower shall not be lifted 
or turned except by means of a rig -building floating gin pole or such other suit 
able device or contrivance . 

( 2 ) Every rig building floating gin pole and its component parts , including the 
basket and sky lines (blocks and tackles ) by which it is suspended and guyed , 
shall be strongly constructed and kept in good repair . 

( 3 ) Open hooks shall not be used to attach tackle blocks or rigging to the float 
ing gin pole , derrick tower , or other supporting structures. 

( 4 ) When a rig building floating gin pole is in operating position with the 
bottom end resting on the ground , derrick floor or derrick foundation , it shall be 
supported in a substantial manner with the bottom end securely fastened in place 
to prevent the gin pole from shifting. 

77 . Ropes used in Rig Building.-- - ( 1 ) ( a ) Wire rope and fibre rope hoisting 
lines, tag lines, basket lines, sky lines and other ropes or slings used in rig build 


718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 / CHAITRA 29 , 1885 


[PART 11 


ing operations shall not be subjected to loads or stregses exceeding one- eighth of 
their breaking strength . 

( b ) Wire rope -- hoisting lines used in rig building operations and that are 
secured to and wound on a holst drum shall not be of a grade interior to plough 
steel grade, and shall be of flexible construction , 

( c ) Fibre rope hoisting lines used in rig building operations and operated on 
a cathead or secured to and pulled by a vehicle in locomotion , shall be of strength 
not less than that of a two centimetre diameter, 3 strand manila rope. 

( a ) A tag line fibre rope shall be of strength not less than that of 1 .25 cm . 
diameter , 3 strand manila rope. 

( e ) Endless slings and eyes formed in the ends of wire ropes, Abre ropes and 
slings shall be made by splice method only . 

( 2 ) When a sling is attached to a load or structural member in such a man 
ner that it is in contact with sharp edges and corners , it shall be ensured that the 
sling can safely withstand the stresses to which it is subjected by the load and 
the sharp edges or corners . 

(3 ) No hoisting lines or slings with projecting wire ends shall be used . 

78 . Hooks, Shackles , Pulley , Elocks used In Rig building. - ( 1 ) Every hook used 
on a hoisting line or in a suspended sheave pulley or block for a hoisting line 
shall be of adequate strength and suitable design , and shall be equipped with 
a safety latch or other device that will prevent the sling, link equipment or mate 
rial attached to and carried hy the hook becoming accidentally disengaged from 
the hook , 

( 2 ) Material and equipment, suspended above the heads of persons shall be 
securely fastened by use of slings and shackles or by equally safe mcans, and not 
by open hooks. 

(3 ) Every sheave pulley - block on which hoisting ropes run , shall be guarded 
against the possibllity of ropes running off the sheave. 

( 4 ) Every floor pulley and snatch block on which rope is used for hoisting 
or lowering material shall be securrly fastened in place to prevent its being 
accidentally displaced . 

79 . Hoisting lino sinkor . - ( 1 ) A hoisting line sinker shall not be attached to a 
hoisting line in such a manner that it will sustain the load being handled ; it shall 
be so secured to the line that it will not become accidentally detached from the 
line or become loose . 

( 2 ) ( a ) Each end of a hoisting line sinker shall be of the coneshape to 
prevent the danger of the sinker catching on the structural members of the 
derrick , 

(b ) Bolt-holes in split type sinkers shall be counter -sunk and the bolts used 
shall not project beyond the perimeter of the sinker, 

80 . Examination of ropes and Shackles, used in Rig . bullding. Hoisting lines 
and all ropes, tackle -blocks, hooks rings , shackles and slings in service shall be 
inspected once at least in every seven days by a competent person . If any equip 
ment is found on inspection to be worn , damaged or otherwise defective to an 
extent that it is unsafe , it shall be immediately removed from service and shall 
not again be used until made sale. A record of every such inspection shall be kept 
in bound paged book kept for the purpose . 


81 . Holsing for Rig building. - While the holst is in operation , the rle bullding 
hoist and every automotive vehicle on which such a hoist is mounted shall be 
securely fastened in place to prevent accidental skidding, rolling or overturning , 

( 2 ) Every hoist and automotive vehicle used in locomotion for hoisting, shall 
be equipped with brakes capable of sustaining and safely controlling the lowering 
of the load being handled . 

( 3 ) (a ) Every cathead on a rig -building hoist shall conform with the provision . 
of regulation 68. 

(b ) Not more than one rope shall be usert on a cathead at any time. 


SEC . 3(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 . 1963 /CHAITRA 25, 1825 


719 


(4 ) The holsting and lowering of loads shall be done at a safe speed . 

(5 ) ( a ) All materials to be hoisted or lowered shall be securely fastened to 
prevent them falling while being holstod or lowored . 

(b ) Bolts , nuts , washers, nuils and such other small articles to be hoisted or 
lowered shall be placed in strong canvas bags or other suitable containers. 

(6 ) The holst operator shall remain at the holst controls while load is suspended 
from the hoist line . 

( 7 ) When hoisting or lowering a crown block or other heavy materials in a 
derrick over a flowing well or a producing gas well, all the valves and pipe 
Attings connected to the well that are under pressure and within the perimeter of 
the derrick shall be protected from breakage by the crown block or other heavy 
materials being accidentally dropped on them or against them . 

82 . General safety during Rig building. - ( 1) No person except the crew erecting 
or dismantling a derrick shall be required or permitted to work on the derrick 
floor or at ground level on that side of the derrick where the loads are being raised 
or lowered . 

( 2 ) ( a ) No tools , derrick parts or material of any kind shall be thrown from 
any point above the flrst girt of a derrick until the persons below have been given 
adequate and audible warning. 

( b ) No tools , equipment or material of any kind shall be left unsecured in or 
on a derrick where they may become accidentally dislodged . 

( 3 ) Planks used as scaffolds shall be not less than 25 cm . in width and not less 
than 5 cm in thickness and shall be structurally sound , free of knots . and tested for 
the required strength before boing used 

( a ) Guy lines, high lines , snub Ines, hoisting and winch lines and such other 
Unes shall not be secured to pipe lines carrying steam or inflammable liquids , or 
gases or to an electric line pole , or to a guy -wire or guy - wire deadman for the 
electric line pole . 

( b ) Guy lines, high lines, snub lines , hoisting and winch lines and such other 
lines shall at all times be kept at least two metres clear of electric lines , 


CHAPTER IX - PRIME MOVERS AND COMPRESSORS 


83. Power control. - ( 1 ) The throttle control or other control device of prime 
movers for a rotary table or a draw -works, well - pulling hoist, sand rcel, standard 
tool drilling machinery and other types of hoists used in drilling and well servicing 
operations shall be so designed , Installed and maintained as to provide the operator 
with safe control of the prime movers from his normal operating position . 


( 2 ) The throttle valves for all steam prime movers shall be placed in the steam 
line as close as possible to the prime movers for their steam intake manifolds. 

(3 ) A wheel valve shall not be used as a throttle valve. 


84 . Flywheels . - ( 1 ) The Aywheel of a one- cylinder engine driving a draw -works, 
rotary table or a well pulling hoist shall have a substantially constructed and 
securely fastened barrier installed to prevent fragments of a bursting wheel Aying 
into the derrick or mast. 


( 2 ) ( a ) No balance rim shall be used in the flywheel of a one - cylinder steam 
engine unless it is securely Atted to the wheel. 


(b ) Flywheels shall not be weighted with other than the balancing rims pro 
vided for the purpose which shall not be in excess of the rated capacity . 


85 . Exhaust from steam prime movers . - ( 1 ) Exhaust from steam prime movers 
shall be piped to location where persons will not be endangered by the steam or 
hot water discharged from the prime-movers . 


720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[PART II -- 


( 2 ) Adequate precautions shall be taken to prevent exhaust condensed steam 
from creating a hazard to persons by reducing the visibility of derricks or masts , 
around machinery on roads, walkways in normal working areas. 

86 . Internal combustion engines . - ( 1 ) A suitable water injection system or 
other equally effective device shall be provided in the exhaust system of an inter 
nal combustion engine in order to prevent the discharge cf flames and sparks from 
the exhaust 
( 1) within a radius of 15 metres of the casing of all drilling wells , where 

there is a probability of light oil or inflammable gas being released 
to the atmosphere in sufficient quantity to create a fre or explosion 

hazard ; 
( II) within a radius of 7 .5 metres from the casing of all wells other than 

drilling wells , where there is a probability of light oil or inflammablo 
gas being released to the atmosphere in suthcient quantity to create 

a fre or explosion hazard ; 
( 111) inside any building where the conditions are such that there is a pro 

bability of light oil or inflammable gas being released to the atmos 

phere in sufficient quantity to create a fire or explosion hazard ; and 
( lv ) where conditions or operations are such that there is a probabilty of 

inflammable gas being relased to the atmosphere in suſclent quantity 

to create a fire or explosion hazard . 
(2 ) ( a ) Exhaust systems shall be substantially constructed and maintained in 
good operating conditions. 

( b ) Proper provision shall be made to prevent Insulating material from directly 
contacting exhaust systems. 

( 3 ) Combustible material shall be kept at reasonably safe distance froin the 
hot surfaces of internal combustion engines and their exhaust systems or ade 
quately insulated to prevent them from becoming ignited . 

(4 ) . Cylinder cocks of internal combustion engines shall not be opened at any 
time where there is a probability of accumulation of inlammable gas , 

(5 ) Adequate provision shall be made to prevent the contact of inflammable 
liquids with exhaust pipes of internal combustion engine. 

(6 ) All electrical accessories partaining to an Internal combustion engine shall 
comply with the provisions of Rule 126 of the Indian Electricity Rules , 1956 , 

( 7 ) Electrical storage batteries shall be provided with suitable covers to pre 
vent accidental contact with battery terminals when such batteries are used or 
stored at a location where there is a probability of gas being released in sufficient 
quantity to create a fire or explosion hazard , 

87. Starters for Internal Combustion Engines . - ( 1 ) Internal combustion 
engines of over 30 Horse Power shall be provided with mcans other than manual 
for starting them . 

Provided that nothing in this sub - regulation shall be deemed to prohibit 
manual starting in an emergency . 


( 2 ) ( a ) If compressed air is used as a means of starting , a check valve shall 
be provided in the air starting line adjacent to the engine. 


( b ) Effective steps shall be taken to prevent the compressed air supply from 
starting the engine, while maintenance work is being performed on an idle engine 
or on equipment connected to and driven by the engine. 


88 . Gas Compressors . -- ( 1) When a gas compressor plant discharges into a line 
to which other sources of gas supply are connected , a valve shall be fitted in the 
discharge line or Unes so as to prevent back flow of gas . 


( 2 ) ( a ) Gas Compressor discharge line shall have a pressure relieving safety 
device and there shall be no intervening valves or fittings between the compres 
sor and its pressure relieving device or between the device and its point of dis + 
charge, which would render it Incffective. 


SEC, 8(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1969 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


721 


( b ) The pressure relieving safety device shall be set to open at a pressure not 
exceeding 10 per cent above the maximum allowable working pressure of the 
cylinder , 

( 3 ) Where hazardous quantities of liquid may be present in the incoming gas 
to compressors, an inlet scrubber shall be provided and a device installed on it 
that will cither give audible warning or shut down the pressurés if the liquid in 
the scrubber exceeds a pre - determined level. 


( 4 ) Gas lines connected to the compressor intakes shall be provided with 
shut-off valves in a safe location outside the compressor building , 


( 5 ) Before maintenance work requiring the opening of lines or equipment 
containing gas, is performed on a compressor or its suction or discharge piping , 
the valves in the intake and discharge lincs shall be closed and locked or the 
lines blinded so as to protect workers from the danger of cscaping gas . 


CHAPTER X . — PIPE LINES AND TANKS 


89. Pipe Lines.- - ( 1 ) ( a ) Pipe lines, piping, fittings and valves shall be installed 
supported and maintained in such a manner as to safely withstand the stresses 
imposed on them by the internal and external loads, and by contraction , expan 
sion and vibration . 

( b ) All pipes required to carry liquid or gas under pressure shall be subjected 
to a pressure test before installation so that a factor of safety of not less than 
eight is always maintained in course of use . 

( 2 ) Low pressure piping systems connected to a high pressure piping system 
shall be adequately protected with pressure - relieving safety devices . 

( 3 ) The discharge end of pipe lines and bleeder lines that may swing or 
revolve whilo discharging shall be securely fastened or anchored . 


90 . Oponing Pipe Lines and Equipment. - ( 1 ) Before opening lines or other 
equipment, the pressure shall be reduced to atmospheric , or as ncar atmospheric 
as practicable , and all necessary precautions shall be taken against possible 
hazards. 


( 2 ) As far as practicable . light oil lines and equipment shall be emptied of 
their contents and washed out or steamed before being opened . 

( 3 ) All sources of ignition shall be eliminated or be sufficiently remote so ag 
to present no hazard before opening light oil line or equipment. 

( 4 ) Unless the contents of light oil lines and cquipment are emptied just before 
opening , proper steps shall be taken to handle the drainage so as to prevent any 
fire hazard . 

( 5 ) During the opening of lines and equipment that contain light oil or inflam 
mable gas, an official shall be present on the spot throughout to see that the pro 
visions of these regulations are complied with , 


91. Blinding Pipe Lines and Equipment. — ( 1 ) Persons required to work within 
a tank or vessel shall be protected from the hazard of liquid or gas that may be 
discharged into the tank or vessel through pipe lines connected to them , by 
blinding or dis - connecting and disaligning such lines in the following manner ; 


( a ) Lincs that may let light oils , corrosive liquids, or inflammable or 

noxious vapour and gases into a tank or vessel shall be blinded . 


( b ) Lines that may let steam , hot water , petroleum or petroleum product 

other than light oils and inflammable vapours or gases into a tank 
or vessel shall either he blinded or , if equivalent in safety to blinding , 
be disconnected and disaligned . 


Provided that cold water , air and foam lines may not be blinded or disconnect 
ed but shall be provided with valyes affording positive control and conveniently 
located with respect to the tank or vessel. 


722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[PART II 


( 2 ) A group of interconnected stationary tanks or vessels having no valves 
between them , may be blinded or disconnected as a unit provided that protection 
equivalent to blinding each of them separately is ensured ; and provided further 
that each tank or vessel is opened to the atmosphere through at least one man 
hole . 

( 3 ) Vessels when blinded as a unit and which have compartments or trays 
shall have the top and bottom manhole covers removed and it shall, as far as 
possible , be ensured that the vessel is not blocked or closed between the manholes . 

( 4 ) Oil and gas pipe lines shall be blinded before welding or flame cutting 
operations are performed , 

(5 ) Blinds shall be of sufficient strength and so installed as to provide ade 
quate safety against conditions of anticipated pressure, temperature and service . 

(6 ) Blinds installed in a line shall clearly indicate whether the line is open 
or closed , 

( 7 ) When inserting blinds requiring gaskets , the gasket shall be Installed on 
the pressure sides and sufficient flange bolts shall be tightened to make the blind 
effective . 


92 . Drainage and Leakage Control. - ( 1 ) ( a ) Drainage sumps , pits or ponds 
for collecting oil or oil and water mixtures shall be so located that they are well 
away from probable sources of ignition and where they will expose workers to 
danger in the event of fire . 

(b ) Adequate drainage shall be provided to prevent a hazardous accumulation 
of oils around pump bases . 

(2 ) Leaks from pipe lines, piping or other equipment shall be promptly 
stopped if workers are endangered by the liberated liquids , vapours or gases . 

( 3 ) The area around any place where oil is stored shall be maintained free 
from oil , grease and other combustible waste material, 

93 . Hazardous Substance.. _ ( 1 ) Stationary tanks containing poisonous and 
corrosives substances or giving off vapours containing poisonous or corrosive sub 
stences shall be posted with warning signs located at the approaches to the sample 
or gauge hatches and at shell manholes. Such signs shall be legible and pro 
mincntly displayed . 

( 2 ) ( a ) Persons working at or near top hatches of tanks which give off 
harmful concentrations of hydrogen sulphide gas shall be provided with and shall 
wear approved respiratory protection . 

( b ) The canister of canister type gas masks used in routine operations shalf 
be replaced as often as is necessary to provide an adequate margin of safety , 
provided , however, that canister type gas masks intended for emergency use 
shall be filled with unused canisters . 


( c ) Equip ant which has been kept or used in a place, exposing it to light 
oils, corrosives or poisonous substances shall be thoroughly cleaned . 

94 . Agitation and Heating of Liquids in Tanks. — Tanks in which liquids at 
temperatures above 65 degrees centigrades , corrosive liquids, or light oils are 
agitated by means of air or gas pressure, shall have their control equipment 
located , as far as possible , where workers operating it will not be exposed to the 
hazards of splashes or boil -overs. 

95 . Stationary Tanks and Reservoirs. - ( 1 ) ( a ) Tanks shall be constructed , 
installed and maintained so that they will safely retain their gaseous contents. 

( b ) Tanks roofs shall be capable of safely supporting persons required to go 
for inspection or maintenance and suitable walk -ways, platforms, railings and toe 
boards shall be provided where necessary . 

( 2 ) ( a ) Roofs of tanks and reservoirs in service shall be externally inspected 
at intervals not exceeding one year . 

( b ) Where a roof is found to be unsafe , substantial barrier shall be erected 
to block off the entire roof of that portion which is unsafe . 


Sec . 3 (i) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


723 


( c ) Legible signs shall be posted at all approaches to the tanks or reservoirs . 
if the cntire roof is blocked off, or on the barrier facing all approaches to the 
defective area if only a portion is unsafe . 

( 3 ) Tank roofs, platforms, walkways and stairways shall be kept clear of loose 
materials . Oils spills from the tanks shall be promptly cleaned . 

96. Stationary Tank and Reservoir Maintenance. - ( 1 ) Maintenance work shall 
not be performed on the roof of a tank or reservoir or shell of a tank where the 
workers are likcly to be exposed to inflammable or noxious gas. 

( 2 ) Before carrying out any maintenance work as mentioned in sub - regula 
tion ( 1 ) , tests shall be made of the atmosphere at the location of the proposed 
work to determine the presence of absence of inflammable or noxious gas. 
Additional tests shall be made at regular intervals during the progress of the 
work , to determine whether safe atmospheric condition continues to exist . 

Provided that nothing in this regulation shall prohibit the employment of a 
worker protected by approved respiratory equipment. 

97. Diversions and Retaining Walls. - ( 1 ) Proper provision shall be made so 
that if the liquid contents of a stationary tank containing inflammable , corrosive . 
hot or poisonous liquids were released due to tank failure , Are , boll-over or 
connection failure , the liquid contents will be kept under control by means of 
adequate drainage system and safe disposal, diversion walls and retaining walls 
as far as practicable , or by any other suitable means, 

( 2 ) Open pits or sumps so located as to constitute hazards to workers , sha13 
be suitably fenced , enclosed or otherwise guarded to prevent persons from falling 
into them , 

98 . Vessels and Pressure Relleying Safety Device . - ( 1 ) ( a ) No vessel shall be 
Operated at a pressure above the safe working pressure corresponding to the 
working temperature ; 

(b ) The safe working pressure shall be established by proper tests . 

( 2 ) No vessel shall be installed or kept in operation without approved test 
certificate . 

( 3 ) Each pressure relieving safety device installed on uperating equipment shall 
be so maintained as to ensure the proper functioning of the device at the designed 
pressure. Such maintenance shall include testing , inspection and repair of tho 
pressure relieving safcty device at such intervals as may be necessary . 

99. Identification of Equipment. -- ( 1 ) Every stationary tank or vessel containing 
inflammable , corrosive or poisonous substances shall be properly identified . 

( 2 ) Plpe lines containing Inflammable , corrosive or poisonous liquids or gas 
shall be properly identified to indicate their contents or purpose , 

( 3 ) ( a ) Plpes which contain or are lkely to contain liquid or was under pressure 
and pipes which are in stock shall be kept painted with distinctive colours 
indicating the different pressures they are designed to withstand . 

(b ) A pipe designed to withstand a lower pressure shall not be used to replara 
pipe installed to withstand a higher pressure . 

100 . Storage and Handling of Pipe. - ( 1 ) Pipes on storage racks shall be 
adequately chocked or wedged or otherwise suitably secured to prevent them from 
accidentally falling or rolling off the rack , 

( 2 ) ( a ) Skids over which pipes are moved shall be of adequate strength to 
safely support the load being handled . 

( b ) Proper precautions shall be taken to place and support the skids so as to 
prevent the danger of their being shifted or displaced while in use , 

( c) Workers shall not be required or permitted to go between the skids over 
which pipes are being moved . 

( 3 ) During the loading and unloading of pipes from a transporting vehicle , 
workers shall not be required or permitted to be on the pipes unless the load 18 
secured by the use of stakes in the truck or trailer or vehicle bed , or by chains, 
binders or by chocking, wedging or other suitable meang . 


724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1969 / CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART ( 


CHAPTER XI - - SHAFTS AND MINE WORKINGS 
101, Cellars and shafts. - ( 1 ) Suitable exits shall be provided from eac a cellar, 


( 2 ) ( a ) Every cellar and shaft and every stairway , rámp, runway and ladder 
providing entry to a cellar or shaft shall be substantially constructed and sbal 
be kept in good repair . 

( b ) When workers are required to be in a cellar or shaft, the cellar or shatt 
and the exits from it shall be kept reasonably free from water , oil, gas , drilling 
fluid and other like substances that may endanger the workers and no unnecessary 
loose materials shall be kept in the cellar or shaft or exits. 

( 3 ) Sides of cellars and shafts shall be made and kept secure . 


102 . Shafts at Oil Wells . This regulation shall apply to every shaft excavated 
or being excavated around or in connection with an oll well casing but not to 
normal drilling or production operations. 

( 1 ) ( a ) Head frames, A - frames, gin poles, and other devices for supporting the 
head sheava shall be so substantially constructed and erected as to safely withstand 
the load imposed upon them 

(b ) A head sheave suspended from the derrick shall be so sccured that it wilt 
safely carry the load imposed upon it. 

(2 ) ( a ) Each hoist shall have adequate power to hoist the fully loaded unbalanced 
skin , cage or bucket from the lowest point in the shaft. 

(b ) The clutch of every hoist drum shall be provided with means to prevent 
accidental withdrawal of the clutch , 

(c ) ( i) Whims and hand operated windlasses shall be provided with a reliable 
device to prevent accidental lowering of the bucket or other container, 

(ü ) Wind asses designed to be operated by hand shall not be power driven . 

(111 ) Hoisting shall not be done by anlmal power or by a motor vehicle driven 
along the ground , 

( d ) The bucket or other devices used for hoisting shall not br lowered directly 
to the working place of persons in the shaft ; it shall be stopped at least 4 : 5 
metres above the working place and lowered farther only upon signal of person 
working in the shaft. 

( 4 ) ( a ) No rope, bar, link , chain or other attachment shall be used for hoisting 
in a shaft unless it is of good quality and manufacture, is free from any visible 
defect and is of adequate calculated strength : 

Provided that the Chief Inspector may, by an order in writing, prohibit the 
use of any rope or type of a rope or bar, link , chain or other attachment where 
in his opinion such use is unsafe . 

( b ) A rope shall be discarded if the diameter of the wires at any place reduces 
to 65 per cent of their original diameter , if there is marked corrosion and if the 
factor of safety , for any reason wnątsoever , falls below 10 . 

( c) Hoisting ropes shall be kept well lubricated at all times . 


( d ) Every hoisting rope shall be securely fastened at both ends . When in use . 
hoisting rope shall never be fully unwound ; at least 3 full turns shall always 
remain on the drum . 

el(i) The rope shall be attached to the load by a suitable type of cappel of a 
design approved by the Chief Inspector. 


( i) Capping of a rope shall be done only by a competent person appointed for 
the purpose , No babbit metal or lead sholl be used in the capping. 


( f) No spliced ropes shall be used in hoisting. 

( No open hook shall be used with a bucket, cage or skip ; only a suitably 
designed safety hook shall be used. 


Sec. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 19, 1968 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


725 


( h ) Proper means shall be provided to prevent material from falling into the 
shaft while the bucket is being unloaded 

( 5 ) ( a ) Every shaft shall be provided with an efficient means of communicat 
ing distinct and definite signals between the top of the shaft and the place from 
which hoisting is being done. 

( b ) When using signals by means of bells or otherwise for hoisting or lower 
ing, the following code shall be used : 

ONE BELL OR RAP - STOP 
TWO BELLS OR RAP – LOWER 
THREE BELLS OR RAP - TAKE UP SLACK OR RAISE . 
FOUR BELLS OR RAP _ TAKE UP SLACK OR RAISE WHEN MEN ARE 

RIDING . 


Any other signal shall be in addition to and shall not interfere with the fore 
going . 

Provided that the Chief Inspector may by an order in writing and subject to 
such conditions as he may specify therein , permit the use of any code of signal 
ling other than that specified above. 

( c ) A printed copy of the code of signals including additional signals shall be 
posted permanently at the top of the shaft and also in the winding engine room , 

( d ) Except when riding in bucket or other means of conveyance , no person 
other than the chargeman appointed for the purpose or a person authorised in 
writing by the manager shall give any signal. 

(6 ) ( a ) Unless otherwise permitted by the Regional Inspector by an order in 
writing subject to such conditions as he may specify , every shaft shall be lined 
throughout to prevent danger from falls of sides. 

( b ) Persons working in a shaft at any point except at the bottom shall be 
provided with a safe working floor , if practicable , otherwise the workers shall 
wear an approved safety belt with a life line attached . 

( 7 ) (a ) Every working shaft shall be provided with a ladder or stairs so as 
to provide an outlet from the bottom of the shaft to the surfac. . 

( b ) The ladders shall be installed at a safe distance from the moving bucket, 
cage or skip . 

( c ) The ladder shall be provided with substantial landing platforms at inter 
vals not greater than 9 metres , 

( d ) The ladders shall be offset at landing platforms only . 

( e ) The ladder ways and landing platforms shall be kept free of loose rock and 
other obstructions when persons are in the shaft. 

( 8 ) ( a ) A shaft in which persons are working shall be provided with suſfcient 
natural or mechanically induced ventilation to prevent the accummulation of 
harmful concentrations of noxious gases. 


(b ) No person shall be permitted to enter or remain in a shaft if the shaft con 
tains any harmful concentration of noxious or inflammable gas . A competrnt 
person appointed for this purpose shall carry out tests of the atmosphere before 
the commencement of work in a shift and also at regular intervals during the 
shift. 

( c ) No lamp or light other than an approved safety lamp shall be used in a 
shaft. 

( d ) A competent person appointed for the purpose by the manager shall be on 
duty whenever persons are working in a shaft , 

( e ) Except in a naturally wet ground no person shall use , or cause or permit 
to be used , any power drill unless a jet of water is directed on to the cutting edge 
of the drill throughout the drilling operations , or other equally efficient device 
approved by the Chief Inspector is provided so as to prevent the atmosphere 
being charged with dust . 


726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1965 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[Part II 


(f ) The top of every shaft shall be adequately fenced with gates, guard rails 
or other safety barriers . 

( g ) No internal combustion engines shall be permitted to be issued in a shaft. 

( h ) If a worker is in a shaft, no internal combustion engine or fuel for internal 
combustion engine shall be brought or kept within 15 metres of the shaft . 

(i) A person shall not be employed in a shaft if he is alone . 

103 . Machinery for man -winding. - No machinery or apparatus shall be used 
for the purpose of man winding except with the permission in writing of Chief 
Inspector and in accordance with such condition as he may specify therein . 

104 . Precautions against Migration of Fluids and gas . - The lining of every 
shaft and of every excavation which penetrates more than one sand whether 
such sand contains oil, gas or water or not shall be packed with cement or treated 
in some other way so that the percolation or migration of fluids or gas through 
or behind the lining is effectively and permanently prevented , 

105. Precaution against water . — Where shaft or any part of a mine is so situat 
ed that there is a danger whatever , of an eruption of water into the shaft or part 
of the mine, adequate protection against such an eruption shall be provided and 
maintained . 

108 . Precautions while abandoning or discontinuing a mino. — ( 1 ) No mine or 
part of a mine shall be abandoned nor shall the workings thereof be discontinued 
for a period exceeding two months unless all inlets from any oil sand or gas sand 
or shale or any other oil or gas bearing strata into the mine or part thereof have 
been sealed off , as far as practicable , so as to prevent the egress of oil or gas from 
the sand or shale . 

( 2 ) When a mine has been abandoned or discontinued for a period exceeding 
6 months, all openings into the mine shall be sealed at the surface . 


107. Examination of working places . ( 1) Every place where work is carried 
on or where men are stationed or pass shall be placed under the charge of a 
competent person appointed by the manager . 

( 2 ) A competent person or persons appointed for the purpose by the manager 
shall within such time not exceeding two hours before the commencement of work 
in a shift, inspect every part of the mine and shall ascertain the condition thereof 
so far as the presence of gas ventilation , roof and sides and general safety are 
concerned . The result of every such inspection shall be recorded in a book kept 
for the purpose . A like inspection shall be made at least twice in the course of 
each shift and at least once in every 5 hours during which shift continues. 

( 3 ) No person shall be appointed to carry out the inspection required by these 
regulations unless he attains the age of 21 years and has sufficient practical 
experience of the working of a mine and is competent and qualified to detect the 
presence of gas . If any dispute arises as to whether such person is competent to 
test for gas the decision of the Chief Inspector shall be final, 

( 4 ) Every report required under sub - regulation ( 2 ) shall be made by the per 
son inspecting, immediately at the end of his shift and it shall be a full and accur 
ate report of the inspection , spccifying the area and whether anywhere, noxious 
or inflammable gas was found , and whether or not any , and if any, what defects 
in sides and other sources of danger were observed . The report shall be signed 
by the person who made the inspection and state the date and time of the inspec 
tion and the date and time when the report was written . 

(5 ) No workman shall enter or be permitted to enter a shaft or any other 
working place until every part of it has been examined in the manner prescribed 
in sub -regulation ( 2 ) . 

108 . Avoidance of danger. If any part of a mine is found to be unsafe, all 
persons except those engaged in saving life or in removing the danger shall be 
withdrawn immediately from the dangerous area and all approaches to the area 
shall be securely fenced so as to prevent unauthorised persons entering it until 
the danger has been removed . 

109. Workings undor railways, roads eto . - ( 1) No working shall be made or 
extended to any point beneath and within 45 metres of any railway land or of any 
public works in respect of which this regulation is applicable by reason of any 


Sec . 3 (1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 19 , 1963 / CHAITRA 25, 1885 


727 


general or special order of the Central Government or of any public road or 
building or of other permanent structure not belonging to the owner of the mine , 
without the prior permission in writing of the Chief Inspector and subject to such 
conditions as he may specify therein , 

( 2 ) Where the stability of such railway road , works buildings or structures has 
been endangered due to any mining operations, the Chief Inspector may by an 
order in writing, require the owner to construct in the mine such protective works 
within such time as he may specify in the order . 

110 . Protective works before a mine is closed . - ( 1 ) The Chief Inspector may 
by an order in writing require the owner of any mine to which regulation 6 
applies , to construct in the mine belowground or on the surface such protective 
works within such time as he may specify therein , 

( 2 ) If the owner fails to construct such protective works within the time 
specified in the order , the Chief Inspector may get the order executed by any 
other agency and the cost thereof certified by the Chief Inspector shall be defray 
ed by the owner of the mine and be recoverable from him as an arrear of land 
revenue. 


111. Workings near mino boundarles . — No working whatever shall be done 
within 30 metres of the mine boundary without prior consent in writing of the 
Chief Inspector . If any dispute arises as to the correctness of boundary, the Chief 
Inspector may prohibit the person working in the mine from carrying on any 
operation within a specified distance of the disputed boundary until such time 
as a binding agreement has been rcached as to the correct boundary or the ques 
tion has been determined by a court of law . 

112. Underground working . – ( 1 ) No working shall be made belowground ex 
cept with the permission in writing of the Chief Inspector and in accordance with 
such conditions as he may specify therein . An application for permission under 
this sub -regulation shall be accompanied by two copies of plan and sections 
showing the proposed method of working. Such applications shall be submitted 
at least three months before the proposed date of commencement of the workings. 

( 2 ) No drilling operation shall be conducted within 60 metres of any under 
ground working without permission in writing of the Chief Inspector . 

( 3 ) When an oil well deviates to within 30 metres of any underground work 
ing, a notice in writing shall be sent forthwith to the Chief Inspector and also 
to the owner , agent or manager of the underground mine. Such notice shall 
state clearly if there is any danger to the persons employed in the underground 
workings. 

113 . Distance between oll wells . - -No new well shall be made within 30 metres 
of an existing well without permission in writing of the Chief Inspector, 


CHAPTER XII. EXPLOSIVES AND SHOTFIRING 


114. Type of explosives to be used in mines. No explosive other than that pro 
vided by the owner, agent or manager shall be used in a mine. The explosives 
provided for use shall be of good quality and , as far as can be known, in good 
condition . 

115. Storage of explosives. - ( 1 ) No owner , agent or manager shall store, or 
knowingly allow any other person to store, within the premises of a mine any 
explosives otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of rules made under 
the Indian Explosives Act , 1884. 

( 2 ) Explosives shall not be taken into or kept in any building except in a 
magazine duly approved by the Licencing Authority under the Indian Explosives 
Act, 1884 . 

( 3 ) Every Licence granted by the Licencing Authority under the Indian Ex 
plosives Act , 1884 for the storage of explosives , or a true copy thereof, shall be 
kept at the office of the mine . 

116 . Cartridges . — ( 1) Unless otherwise permitted by the Chief Inspector by an 
order in writing and subject to such conditions as he may specify therein , no 
explosive, other than a fuse or a detonator, shall be issued for use in a mine, 


728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 / CHAITRA 28, 1885 


[PART II 


or taken into or used in any part of a mine, unless it is in the form of a cartridge . 
Cartridges shall be used only in the form in which they are recelved . 

( 2 ) The preparation of cartridges from loose gunpowder , the drying of gun 
powder and the reconstruction of damp cartridges shall be carried out by a 
competent person and only in a place approved by the Licencing Authority and 
in accordance with the rules made under the Indian Explosives Act , 1884 . 


117. Magazines , stores and premises to store explosives.- - ( 1 ) Every magazine , 
store or premises , where explosives are stored shall be in charge of a competent 
person who shall be responsible for the proper receipt, storage and issue of explo 
sives . 

( 2 ) Explosives shall not be issued from the magazine unless they are required 
for immediate use . If any explosives are returned to the magazine, store or 
premises, they shall be re - issued before fresh stock is used . 

( 3 ) Explosives shall be issued only to competent persons upon written re 
quisition signed by the blaster or by an official authorised for the purpose, and 
only against their signature or thumb impression , Such requisition shall be 
preserved by the person in charge of the magazine, store or premises . 

( 4 ) The person in charge of the magazine, store or premises shall maintain , 
In a bound paged book kept for the purpose , a clear and accurate record of 
explosives issued to each competent person and similar record of explosives re 
turned to the magazine, store or premises , 


118 . Cases and contajnors for carrying explosives . — ( 1 ) No explosives shall be 
issued , from the magazine or taken into any mine except in a case or container 
of substantial construction and securely locked . Cases or containers made of fron 
or steel shall be heavily galvanised ; and no case or container provided for carrying 
detonators shall be constructed of metal or other conductive material, 

( 2 ) No detonator shall be kept in a case or container which contains other 
explosives, materials or tools ; and two or more types of detonators shall not be 
kept in the same case or container . 

Provided that nothing in this sub - regulation shall restrict the conveyance of 
primer cartridges fitted with detonators in the same case or container for use in a 
wet working or in a sinking shaft . 


a case or container unless it is 


( 3 ) No detonator shall be taken out from 
required for immediate use, 


( 4 ) No case or container shall contain more than Aye kilogrammes of explo 
sives ; and no person shall have in his possession at one time in any place more 
than one such case or container , 

Provided that nothing in this sub - regulation shall prohibit the conveyance of 
larger quantity of explosives in bulk for supplying the magazine. 

Provided further that the Chief Inspector may , by an order in writing and 
subject to such conditions as he may specify therein , permit the carrying of a 
larger quantity of explosives in a single case or container , or the use , at one 
time in one place, of more than such case or container , 

( 5 ) Every casc or container shall be numbered ; and as far as practicable , the 
same case or container shall be issued to the same blaster or competent person , 
as the case may be, every day. 

(6 ) The key of every case or container shall bo retained by the blaster in his 
own possession throughout his shift. 

119 . Transport of explosives. — ( 1 ) While explosives in bulk are lowcred or rais 
ed in a shaft, a distinguishing mark shall be attached to the cage, skip or bucket 
containing the explosives ; or the person in charge of explosives shall travel in 
the same cage, skip or bucket . 

( 2 ) Every cage , skip or bucket containing explosives shall be gently lowered 
or raised ; and it shall be the duty of the banksman or bellman , as the case may 
be, to adequately warn the hoist engineman before the cage , skip or bucket is 
set in motion . 


over the very hot einstalner shall be retained by the Buster to hi 


Sec. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 28, 1885 


729 


(3 ) Where explosives are being carried on a ladder , every case or container 
shall be securely fastened to the person carrying it. 

( 4 ) No person other than a blaster shall carry any priming cartridge into a 
shaft which is in the rourse of being sunk . No such cartridge shall be so carried 
except in a thick felt bag or other container sufficient to protect it from shock .. 
120 . Shotfiring tools. - ( 1 ) Every blaster on duty shall be provided with 
( a ) a tool, made entirely of wood, suitable for charging and stemming shot 

holes ; 
(b ) a scraper made of brass or wood suitable for cleaning out shot-holes ; 
( c ) where fuses are used , a knife for cutting off fuses and , unless machine 

capped fuses are provided , also a pair of suitable crimpers for 

crimping detonators; and 
( d ) where detonators are used , a picker made of wood cr a non - ferrous 

metal for priming cartridges . 
( 2 ) No tool or appliance other than that provided as above shall be used by 
a blaster , 

121. Drilling , charging , stemming and firlng of shotholes — 

( 1 ) No drill shall be used for boring a shothole unless it allows a clearance 
of at least 0 - 3 centimetres over the diameter of the cartridge of explosive which 
it is intended to use . 

( 2 ) No shothole shall be charged before it is thoroughly cleaned . 

( 3 ) Before any shothole is charged , the direction of the hole shall, where 
practicable , be distinctly marked on a convenient place. 

(4 ). No detonator shall be inserted into a priming cartridge until immediately 
before it is to be used ; provided however that in case of wet workings , priming 
cartridges may be prepared at the nearest convenient dry place; and such primed 
cartridges shall be carried to the working place in a securely closed case or 
container . Detonators once inserted into a priming cartridge shall not be taken 
out. 


(5 ) Unless otherwise permitted by the Chief Inspector by an order in writing 
and subject to such conditions as he may specify therein , the charge in any 
shothole shall consist of one or more complete cartridges of the same diameter 
and the same type of explosive . 

( 6 ) The blaster shall, to the best of his judgment, ensure that no charge in 
a shothole is overcharged or undercharged , having regard to the task to be per 
formed . 

( 7 ) No shothole shall be fired by a fuse less than 1. 2 metres in length , 

(8 ) Every shothole shall be stemmed with sufficient and suitable non -infiam 
mable stemming so as to prevent the shot from blowing out. Only gand loosely 
filled in , or soft clay lightly pressed home, or a compact but not hard mixture 
of sand and clay or water shall be used as stemming . 

( 9 ) In charging or stemming a shothole , no metallic tool, scraper or rod shall 
be used ; and no explosive shall be forcibly pressed into hole of insufficient size . 

( 10 ) No shot shall be fired except in a properly drilled , charged and stemmed 
shothole , 

( 11) All surplus explosives shall be removed from the vicinity of a shothole 
betore a light is brought near it for the purpose of lighting the fuse . 

( 12 ) As far as practicable , a shot shall be fired by the same blaster who 
charged it . 

( 13 ) In any mine in which explosives other than gunpowder are used , every 
shot shall, ir so required by the Regional Inspector, be fired electrically . 

( 14 ) Not more than 10 holes shall be fired in one round unless they are fired 
electrically or by means of an Igniter cord . 


730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[PART II 


( 15 ) No shothole shall be charged except those which are to be fred in that 
round ; and all shotholes which have been charged shall be fred in one round . 

( 16 ) Where a large number of shots has to be fred, shotfring shall , as far as 
practicable , be carried out between shifts . 

( 17) No person shall remove any stemming otherwise than by means of water 
or an approved device , or pull out any detonator lead or remove any explosive 
from any charged shothole , 

122 . Electric Shotiring. – Where shots are fred electrically , the following pro 
visions shall have etfect, namely 

( 1 ) ( a ) No shot shall be fired except by means of a suitable shotfiring apparatus; 
and the number of shots fred at any one time by the apparatus shall not exceed 
the number for which it is designed . 

(b ) Every electrical shotflring apparatus shall be so constructed and used 
that 


(i) it can only be operated by a removable handle or plug. This handle 

or plug shall not be placed in position until a shot is about to be 

fred and shall be removed as soon as a shot has been fred ; and 
( ii) the Aring circuit is made and broken either automatically or by means 

of a push -button switch . 
( c ) ( 1) No apparatus shall be used which is defective; and every apparatus 
shall, once at least in every three months, be cleaned and thoroughly overhauled 
by a competent person . 

( 11 ) If the apparatus fails to Are all the shots in a properly connected circuit , 
the blaster shall return the apparatus to the manager or assistant manager as 
soon as possible , and it shall not be used again unless it has been tested on the 
surface and found to be in safe working order , 

( lii ) The result of every overhaul test or repair as aforesaid shall be recorded 
in a bound paged book kept for the purpose and shall be signed and dated by the 
person making the overhaul, test or repair . 


( 2 ) No current from a signalling, lighting or power circuit shall be used for 
Aring shots , except with permission in writing of the Chief Inspector and in 
accordance with such conditions as he may specify therein . 


(3 ) The blaster shall 
(a ) retain the key of the firing apparatus in his possession throughout his 

shift ; 
( b ) use a well- Insulated cable of sufficient length to permit him to take 

proper shelter , and in no case , shall this cable be less than 20 metres 

in length ; 
(c ) before coupling the cable to the firing apparatus, couple up the cable 

himself to the detonator leads ; 
( d ) take care to prevent the cable from coming into contact with any power 

or lighting cable or nther electrical apparatus; 
( e ) take adequate precautions to protect electrical conductors and apparatus 

from injury ; 
( f) himself couple the cable to the firing apparatus and before doing so , 

see that all persons in the vicinity have taken proper shelter as pro 

vided under regulation 123; and 
( g ) after firing the shots and before entering the place of Aring , disconnect 

the cable from the firing apparatus. 
(4 ) When more than one shot are to be fired at the same time 

( a ) care shall be taken that all connections are properly made ; 


SEC, 8 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 13 , 196 $ /CHAITRA 29, 1885 


731 


(b ) all shots if fred belowground shall be connected in series ; 
( c ) the circuit shall be tested either for electrical resistance or for con 

tinuity before connecting it to the firing apparatus. Such a test shall 
be made with an apparatus specifically designed for the purpose and 

after the provisions of regulation 123 have been complied with ; and 
( d ) the cable to the shotAring apparatus shall be connected last. 
123 . Taking shelter , etc . — ( 1 ) The blaster shall , before a shot is charged stem 
med or fred , see that all persons in the vicinity have taken proper shelter. He 
shall also take suitable steps to prevent any person approaching the shot and shall 
himself take adequate shelter ; 

Provided that on surface, the blaster shall give sufficient warning, by an 
efficient system of signals or by other means approved by the manager over the 
entire area of the danger zone, that is to say unless otherwise permitted in writing 
by the Chief Inspector and subject to such conditions as he may specify therein 
an area of ground falling within a radius of 300 metres from the place of Aring. 

( 2 ) Where the workings , either above or belowground offer insumcient protection 
against Aying fragments or missiles , adequate shelter or other protection shall be 
provided . 

( 3 ) When two working places belowground have approached within three 
metres of each other, the blaster shall not fire any shot in any one of the said 
workings unless all persons have been withdrawn from the other working place 
and the same has been so fenced oil as to prevent persons inadvertantly coming 
in direct line of the shot. 

124. Use of Permitted Explosives , - ( 1 ) No explosive other than a permitted 
explosive shall be used in any mine or part thereof where inflammable liquid , 
gas is likely to accumulate or where safety lamps are required to be used under 
these regulations or where the Regional Inspector may, by an order in writing , 
require the use of such explosive . 

( 2 ) In any mine or part thereof in which the use of permitted explosives is 
required under sub -regulation ( 1 ) , no detonator shall be used unless it is an 
approved electric detonator with a copper tube. 

(3 ) No shot of a perinitted explosive shall be fred except by means of a shot 
Alring apparatus of a type approved by the Chief Inspector from time to time 
by notification in the official gazette : 


Provided that where special conditions exist , the Chief Inspector may , by 
an order in writing and subject to such conditions as he may specify therein , 
permit the use of any other shot-fring apparatus. 

( 4 ) In any mine where permitted explosives are required to be used the 
following provisions shall have effect, namely , -- 
( a ) whrre more shots than one are charged for fring , the shots shall be 

fired simultaneously : 
( b ) No delay -action detonator shall be used exrept with the previous 

permission in writing of the Chicf Inspector and subject to such 

conditions as he may specify therein . 
( C ) If presence of inflammable gas, or liquid is detected in any place, no 

shot-hole shall be charged , stemmed or Ared in that place till such 
place has been cleared of such gas or liquid and declared safe . 


125 Inspection after shot - firing . - ( 1 ) After a shot has been fred , no person 
other than the blastei or any other competent person appointes for the purpose 
by the manager shall enter, or allow any other person to enter, the place until 
the area is free from dust, smoke or fumes. The blaster or other competent 
person shall, before any other person enters the place , make a careful examination 
and with his assistants , if any, make the place safe . No other person shall enter 
the place and where guards have been posted , they shall not be withdrawn until 
the examination has been made and the place has been declared to be safe in 
all respects . In the case of blasting on surface, after shots have been fred , any 
all clear signal shall be given except in the case of a misfire . 


- 732 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1968 /CHAITRA 28 , 1885 


[Part II -- 


( 2 ) After shots have been fired , all persons engaged in clearing mineral, rock 
or debris shall look for unexploded cartridges and detonators. In such a cart 
ridge and detonator is found , it shall be removed and shall as soon as possible 
be handed over to a blaster or other official. 

126 . Misfres . - ( 1) The number of shots which explode shall, unless shots are 
flred electrically or by means of an igniter cord be counted by the blaster and 
another competent person authorised for the purpose , and unless it is certain 
that all the shots have been exploded , no person shall re- enter or be permitted 
to re -enter the place until 30 minutes after the firing of shots : 

Provided that where shots are fired electrically , this interval may be reduced 
to not less than llve minutes after the source of electricity has been disconnected 
from the cable . 


( 2 ) In the event of a misfire , the entrance or entrances to the working place 
shall be barricaded or Tenced so as to prevent inadvertent access ; and no work 
other than that of locating or relieving the misnre shall be done therein until the 
misfire has been located and relieved . On surface , it shall be sufficient to mark 
the place of the misfire with a red flag . 


( 3 ) In the event of a misſire , the tamping may be sludged out with compressed 
air or water under pressure , or removed by such other means as may be approved 
in writing by the Chief Inspector and subject to such conditions as he may specify 
therein , The hole shall thereafter be reprimed and fred , 

(4 ) If the misfire contains a detonator , the leads or fuse thereof shall be 
attached by a string to the shotflring cable or some distinctive marker . 

(5 ) Except where the misfire is due to a faulty cable or a faulty connection , 
and the shot is fired as soon as practicable after the defect is remedied , or where 
a shot has been reprimed and fired under sub -regulation ( 3 ) . another shot shall 
be fired in a relieving hole which shall be so placed and drilled in such a direction 
that at no point shall it be nearer than 30 centimetres from the misſired hole . 
The new hole shall be bored in the presence of a blaster, preferably the same 
person who fired the shot . 

(6 ) After a relieving shot has been fired , a careful search for cartridges and 
detonators , if any, shall be made in the presence of the blaster or other com 
petent person appointed for the purpose by the manager amongst the material 
brought down by the shot: 

Provided that in the case of working below ground if such cartridge or de 
tonator is not recovered , the tubs into which the material is loaded shall be 
marked and further search made on the surface . As far as possible , the search 
for the detonators and cartridges and the loading of any ore stone or debris 
which may contain a detonator , shall be carried out without the aid of tools , 

( 7 ) If a mishred hole is not dislodged by a relieving shot , the procedure laid 
down in sub - regulations ( 5 ) And (6 ) shall be repeated . A misfired hole which 
cannot be dealt with in the manner so prescribed , shall be securely plugged with 
a wooden plug ; and no person other than a blaster , an official or a person autho 
Tised for the purpose shall remove or attempt to remove such plug. 

( 8 ) When a misired sho is not found, or when a misſired shot is not relleved 
or reblasted , the blaster shall, before leaving the mine, give information of the 
failure to such official as may relieve or take over charge from him . He shall 
also record , in a bound paged book kopt for the purpose , a report on every misAre, 
whether suspected , and whether relieved or not relieved . It shall he the responsi 
bility of the relieving blaster or oficial also to sign the report and later to record 
in the said book the action taken for relieving the misfired sho- hole , 

(9 ) The blaster of the next shift shall locate and reblast thc misſired hole , 
but if after a thorough examination of the place where the misAre was reported 
to have occurred , the blaster or other competent person appointed for the purpose 
by the manager , is satisfied that no misfire had actually occurred, he may permit 
drilling in the place . 

127 , Precaution in case of sockets . - ( 1 ) Before the commencement of drilling 
In any working place , the competent person in charge of the place shall see 
that all loose rock is removed from the face and the area lying within a radius 
of two metres of the proposed shot -hole is thoroughly cleaned or washed down 
with water and carefully examined for the presence of misfires or sockets : 


Sec. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1969/CHAITRA 29, 1985 


733 


Provided that where special conditions exist, the Chief Inspector may, by an 
order in writing and subject to such conditions as he may specify therein , grant 
a relaxation from these provisions, 

( 2 ) If any socket is found , it shall be dealt with in the manner prescribed in 
regulation 120 . 


( 3 ) No person shall bore out a hole that has once been charged , or attempt 
to withdraw a charge either before firing or after a misfire , or deepen or tamper 
with any empty hole or socket left after shotfiring. 

128 . Duties of blaster at the end of his shit.- Immediately after the end of his 
shift, the blaster 
( a ) shall return all unused explosive to the magazine, or where a store or 

premises or underground magazine is provided under regulation 115 

to such store , premises or magazine; and 
(b ) shall record , in a bound paged book kept for the purpose , the quantity 

of explosive taken , used and returned , the places where shots were 
Ared and the number of shots fired by him , and misfires , if any . 
Every such entry shall be signed and dated by him . 


129 . General precautions regarding explosives . ( 1 ) No person , whilst handling 
explosives or engaged or assisting in the preparation of charges or in the charging 
of holes, shall smoke or carry or use a light other than an enclosed light, electric 
torch or lamp : 


Provided that nothing in this sub -regulation shall be deemed to prohibit the 
use of an open light for lighting fuses , 

(2 ) No person shall take any light other than an enclosed light, electric torch 
or lamp into any explosive magazine or store or premises . 

( 3) No person shall have explosives in his possession except as provided for 
in these regulations, or secrete or keep explosives in a dwelling house. 

( 4 ) Any person Anding any explosives in or about a mine shall deposit the 
same in the inagazine, store or premises . Every such occurrence shall be brought 
to the notice of the manager in writing . 


CILAPTER XIII - - VENTILATION AND LICHTING 


130. Standard of Ventilation . - ( 1 ) It shall be the duty of thic owner , agent or 
manager of every mine to take such steps as are necessary for securing that 
there is constantly produced in all shafts and cellars and in any other place 
required by the Regional Inspector, ventilation adequate to clear away smoke, 
steam and dust ; to dilute gases , that are inflammable or noxious so as to render 
them harmless ; to provide air containing a sufficiency of oxygen ; and to prevent 
such excessive rise of temperature or humidity as may be harmful to the health 
of persons. If any doubt arises as to whether the ventilation in a mine or part 
thereof is adequate or not , it shall be referred to the Chief Inspector for decision . 


( 2 ) For the purpose of this regulation , a place shall not be deemed to be in 
a safe state for persons to work if the air contains either less than 19 per cent 
of oxygen or more than 0 : 5 per cent of carbon dioxide or any noxious gas present 
in quantity likely to affect the health of any person ; and such place shall not be 
deemed to be normally kept free from inflammable gas , if the percentage of such 
gas at any point in that placc cxceeds the limit specified by the Chief Inspector 
by a general or special order in writing. 

( 3 ) Il with respect to any mine or part thercof the Regional Inspector is of 
the opinion that the ventilation is not adequate , he may , by an order in writing, 
require the installation and maintenance of such a mechanical ventilator as is 
capable of producing adequate ventilation in the mine or part thereof . 

Definition . For this chapter shaft includes collar or any other place where 
inflammable gas, vapours or liquid is likely to be present, 


734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


[PART II 


131, Ugc of safety lamps . --- ( 1 ) ( a ) No lamp or light other than an approved 
safety lamp or torch or other installation permitted under the Indian Electricity 
Rules , 1956 , shall be used or permitted to be used : 

( 1) in any sinking shaft or cellar ; 
( ii) in any place underground or below the superjacent ground ; 
(ili) in any place where inflammable gas or liquid is likely to be released 

to the atmosphere in sufficient quantities to create fire or explosion 

hazard ; and 
( iv ) in any other place where in the opinion of the Regional Inspector 

inflammable gas or liquid is likely to be present in such quantities 

as to render the use of naked lights dangerous : 
Provided that if safety lamps are not immediately available the Chief Inspector 
may by an order in writing and subjcct to such conditions as he may specify 
therein , grant a temporary exemption until such time as safcty lamps can be 
obtained : 

Provided further that the Chief Inspector may by an order in writing and 
subject to such conditions as he may specify therein , exempt any mine Or part 
thereof from the operation of this regulation on the ground that on account of 
the special character of the mine or part thereof the use of safety lamps is not 
necessary therein . 

( b ) All safety lamps shall be kept in a lamp room and shall be under the 
charge of a lamp-man authcrised in writing for the purpose by the manager , 

( 2 ) All safety lamps in ordinary use shall be numbered and such records shall 
be kept of the persons to whom the lamps are issued , that the user of any 
particular lamp can at any time be identified from the record . 


( 3 ) The lamp -man shall examinę and lock securely all safety lamps before 
they are taken into the workings for use and such lamps shall not be used until 
they have been so examined and found to be in safe working order and securely 
locked . 

( 4 ) A competent person appointed by the manager for the purpose shall examine 
every safety lamp at the surface immediately before it is taken for use and shall 
assure himself as far as practicable , frcen external observation that each lamp is 
in safe working order and securely locked . 

(5 ) No safety lamp shall be unlocked at the working place where it is required 
to be used 

( 6 ) No person other than a person authorised by the manager to examine and 
lock safety lamp shall take or give out for use any safety lamp or unlock or open 
any safety lamp unless otherwise permitted by the Regional Inspector . 


( 7 ) If it appears to any person that any safety lamp in his possession is 
defective or insecure he shall at once remove it from his place of work and 
return it to the person authorised to issue safety lamps. 

( 8 ) No person shall wilfully damage or improperly use or by improper means 
extinguish any safety lamp . 

132 . Contrabands. — ( 1 ) No person shall have in his possession any unlocked 
safety lamp, naked light, match , smoking apparatus or apparatus of any kind 
for striking a light. 

( 2 ) With thc object of preventing any article as aforesaid being taken into 
the mine, a competent person shall be appointed to search every person immedia 
tely before such person enters the mine and no person shall enter or be permitted 
to enter the mine until such search has been made, 

Provided that nothing in this sub - regulation shall be deemed to prohibit the 
use of any apparatus for the purpose of shortfiring or of relighting safety lamps, 
of a type approved by the Chief Inspector , 

( 3 ) The competent person so appointed shall make a thorough search for the 
articles aforesaid and in particular shall 

( a ) search or turn out all pockets; 


Sec . 9(i) 


TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA . APRIL 13, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


735 


( b ) pass his hand over all clothings; and 

( c ) examine any article in the possession of the person searched . 
(4 ) If the competent person suspects that the person searched is concealing 
any article as aforesaid he shall detain him , and as soon as possible refer the 
matter to the manager or assistant manager . No such person shall be ailowed 
to enter the mine until the manager or other superior oficial is satisfied that 
the person has no such article in his possession , 

( 5 ) Any person who refuses to allow himself to be so searched or who on 
being searched is found to have in his possession any of the article aforesaid , 
shall be guilty of an offence against this regulation . 

133 . General lighting ( 1 ) All places where workpersons are required to be 
present, adequate lighting arrangement shall be provided after sun set . All lights 
shall be checked one hour before sun set every day and the defects shall be 
promptly rectified . 


( 2 ) Working areas, stairways, pagsageways, work benches and machines shall 
be provided with either natural or artificial illumin : tion which is adequate and 
guitable to secure the satety of workers , 


( 3 ) When adequate natural illumination or permanent arlliicial illumination 
cannot be made available to secure safety of workers, suitable portable lights shall 
be provided . 


shith Fired lamps on derricks and 


( 4 ) Lamps and other light Accessories which proviilas necessary illumination 
shall be kept sufficiently clean , adjusted and repurad sri as not to impair the 
Illumination required for the safety of the workers , 

( 5 ) Fixed lamps on derricks and masts shall be equipped with reflectors or 
shields or so located as to minimize glare or hindrance to the vision . 

( 6 ) Strongly constructed and securely fastened wire cages or equivalent sate . 
guards shall be installed on lamp fixtures on derricks and masts to prevent lamp 
globes or their gag tight enclosure globes from falling shoull they become detachet 
or bro !cen . 

134 . Use of power lines for lighting - Electric lamps connected to a lighting 
or power circuit shall not be used at any place where i lammable gas , or liquid 
is likely to be present. 

Provided that the Chief Inspector may by an order in wiiting and subjert to, 
ouch conditions as he may iinpose , permit the use of self- contained lighting 
apparatus in which electric lamps are supplied from a genecutor operated by 
compressed air . All such apparatus shall be of a type approvel by the Chief 
Inspector . 

135. ( 1 ) If any doubt arises as to whether any lamp or light is of adequate 
lighting performance or not, it shall be referred to the Chief Inspector for 
decision . 

( 2 ) The Chief Inspector may, from time to time, by notification in the Omicial 
Gavette , specify : 
( a ) the type of lamp to be provided to specified categories of workers 

employed in a mine ; 
( b ) the standard of lighting to be provided in specified areas or places in 

& mine. 


CHAPTER XIV – PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRES AND EXP! OSIONS 
fio . Compressed Air Supply . - Air from air compressing plant shall be clean 
and free from oll fumes before being used . 

137, Danger area . - ( 1 ) An area on the surface around the top of each shaft 
and other working piares shall be securely fenced so as to prevent the ingress 
of any persons except through gates. Such fencing shall not be placed nearor 
than 45 metres from the shaft or working places . 


736 


THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : APRIL 15, 1968 /CHAITRA 28, 1885 


(PART II 


12 ) The greus l enced as above shall be known as danger areas and notices 
to that effect shall be prominently displayed around each such area . 

(3 ) No unauthorised person shall enter any danger area . 
(4 ) Within «lly danger area 
( a ) no person shall have in his possession any match , smoking apparatus 

or means for striking a light; 
( b ) no person shall light or cause or perinit to be lighted or used any Are 

or naked light; 
(r ) no combustible inflammable or explosive material shall be stored ; 
provided that nothing in this sub - regulation shall preclude the dumping or sand 
containing oll in a danger area which is separate from a danger area surrounding 

shaft ; 


( d ) except for the materials used in the construction of a temporary 

sinking derrick , no inflammable material shall be used in a building 

or other construction ; 
(e ) all electric transmission lines shall be armoured or otherwise suitably 

protected to prevent open sparking ; and 
(f ) all electric apparatus shall be flame proof or intrinsically safe . 
138. Inspection of pipe lines. - All oil pipe lines shall be inspected daily and 
constantly maintained in an oil tight condition . 

139. Collection of leakage oil. - Oil collected or released in the process of 
mining or by leakage froin any pipe line shall be continuously collected and 
removed in receptacles with oil tight and gas tight covers or by pumping through 
pipelines. 

140 . Location of main oil reservoirs . — Main oil reservoirs shall be situated not 
less than 45 metres from any working place and shall be shut off so as to prevent 
danger from Are . 

141. Prevention of outbreak of fire. - ( 1) Adequate provision shall be made to 
prevent outbreak and spread of Are in the mine, 

( 2 ) When in the opinion of the Regional Inspector , the provisions made for 
the abovc purpose are inadequate , he may require such additional provisions as 
he may specify to be made. 

142. Safety staff and equipment . The owner , agent or manager shall appoint 
and maintain adequate number of specially trained safety staff and equipment 
to prevent danger from fire or explosion hazard in a mine. If any dispute arises 
whether such start or equipment are adequate, the matter shall be referred to 
the Chief Inspector for decision . 

143 . Smoking ( 1 ) No smoking shall be done in the fld area except in the 
smoking huts provided for the purnose . Where smoking is permitted , a notice to 
that effect shall be prominently displayed. 

( 2 ) Not more than two men shall use a smoking hut at any one time. 

( 3 ) No work I shall toke with him matches or any other smoking material 
while on the fourble hoard of a drilling well. 


144 . Precautiong during welding . - ( 1 ) Before welding is undertaken on any 
drilling or re -conditioning well, a test for gas shall be made by a competent person 
appointed for the purpos - by the manager. No welding shall be started till the 
places are found gas free, and a Are brigade stands by. 


( 2 ) If welding is to be carried out in a cellar or under engine sub - structures , 
it shall be ensured that no oil or inflammable gas has collected in these places . 

( 3 ) When a petrol driven weiding machine is to be used it shall be started up 
und running before welding is due to start. 

( 4 ) No welding shall be carried out on wells where gas is present or all base 
mnd le in use . 


SEC . 3/1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 29, 1885 


737 


145 . Blowout prevention . - ( 1 ) ( a ) Unless exempted by the Chief Inspector , 
blowout prevention equipment shall be provided on every drilling , redrilling or 
producing wells . 

( b ) All blowout prevention equipment on a drilling or redrilling well, shall be 
substantially constructed , securely fastened in place and maintained in a manner 
to ensure its proper functioning . 

( c ) ( i) Blowout prevention equipment shall be of a type having remote 
controls . 


( ii) The remote controls of a blowout prevention equipment shall be located 
where they can be operated on ground level at a place not less than 3 .5 metres 
from the well casing . If the remot- controls are located less than 7 .5 metres from 
the well casing , substantially constructed shields and overhead shelters sufficiently 
large to protect workers from falling and flying materials shall be provided . The 
shields and shelters shall be construited of fire resistant material. They shall be 
located between the remote controls and the well casing . These controls shall be 
located at least three metres from the drilling fluid circulating ditch or pit : 

Provided that a blowout preventer that is designed to be self - energizing by 
well pressure in case of a blowout, may not be provided with remote controls . 

( iii) Where additional controls are provided, they shall not interfere with tho 
proper functioning of the aforesaid controls. 

(iv ) Blowout preventer controls shall be distinctly marked for clear identifica 
tion and function . 

( 2 ) ( a ) During well servicing operations and such other operations as perfo 
rating , shooting or cutting off a string of casing on a well that is known to have 
sufficient gas pressure to cause the well to flow , or where conditions are such as to 
Indicate that there is a probability that the well may flow or where the gas pressure 
to unknown , blowout prevention equipment shall be provided . 

(b ) The equipment shall be of substantial construction and maintained in 
good operating condition . 

( c ) The controls for pressure or mechanically operated blowout preventer s 
shall be located where readily accessible at derrick or mast floor level or at ground 
level. 

146 . Auxillary means of escape from Derricks and Maste . - ( 1 ) At every drilling 
and reririlling well, an auxiliary means of escape shall be pr(ivided from the 
principal inside derrick platfom of a standard type derrick and from the pipe 
racking platform on a mast. The auxiliary means of escape shall be a specially 
rigged and substantially constructed escape line by which a worker can reach the 
ground it a blowout, fire , or other emergency in or around the derrick or mast 
cuts off his escape by way of the derrick or mast ladder . 


( 2 ) An auxiliary means of escape as specified in sub - regulation ( 1 ) shall be 
provided at all wells when well servicing operations require a worker to be in 
the d - rrick or mast and there is likelihood of the well flowing or of release of 
hazardous quantities of gas . 

( 3 ) Escape lines shall he stretched reasonably tight and shall be free from 
knots, splices, broken wires and other obstructions. 

( 4 ) Escape line shall be installed at an ongle of 40 to 50 dcgrres from the 
horizontal and in no case at an angle of more than 75 degrees from the horizontal. 


( 5 ) Every mechanical slide provided on an escape line shall be substantially 
construct d and shall be equipped with a brake to control the speed of descent, 
If there is 110 mechanical slide on an escape line , a means of protection against 
friction hurns to hands shall be provided. 


( 6 ) If i derrick or a mast floor is more than three metres in hcight above 
ground level , two mcans of access shall be provided by a stairway , ramp, walkway 
or a combination thereof, provided that a ladder may be used as one of the two 
means of escape . 

147. Loading and unloading of llquids . - ( 1 ) During the loading or unloading nt 
light oils into or from truck or trailer tanks, no repairs , adjustments or nther 


738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[PART ]] 


operations shall be performed upon a truck , truck motor, trailer , truck tank or 
trailer tank . 

( 2 ) During loading or unloading of a tank truck or trailer , the truck motor 
shall be stopped and the cab shall be unoccupied , unless the cargo is moved by 
means of the truck motor or an auxiliary engine with controls located in the 
cab , in which case the cab may be occupied by the truck operator. 

( 3 ) When a tank truck motor or an auxiliary internal combustion engine 
mounted either on or dangerously close to the truck or trailer is being used to 
furnish power to transfer the light oil, the gas that may be liberated by such 
transfer shall be prevent- d from reaching the motor or engine. If necessary the 
gas shall be piped to a safe location . 


( 4 ) During the loading or unloading of a tank truck or trailer, a competent 
person shall be at the loading or unloading controls . 


( 5 ) In loading or unloading tank trucks and trailers , adequate provision shall 
be made for the safe disposal of the oils released by overflow and from hose spoute 
and lines . 

(6 ) Safe access shall be provided to the top of the tank if workers are 
required to go on or to the top of the tank carg. 

148 . Dangerous exposure . - ( 1 ) If the clothing worn by worker becomes 
contaminated by a hazardous substance he shall remove the clothing without 
undue delay and the clothing shall not be worn again until the hazardous 
zubstance has been removed . 

( 2 ) It the clothing worn by a worker becomes wet with gasoline, kerosent, 
naptha, light distillate or light oils , he shall not remain or be required to remain 
in a location where his clothing is in danger of catching fre . 

( 3 ) Workers shall not work with bare head , bare arms, or exposed body in 
areas where they may be exposed to burns from corrosive or hot substances that 
may be liberated in hazardous quantity. 


149 . Change rooms. - ( 1 ) ( a ) Change rooms shall be located for workers to 
change their clothes at the beginning or end of a shift, 

( b ) Permanent change rooms shall provide shower baths and lavatories with 
hot and cold running water . These rooms shall be adequately lighted and venti 
lated and shall have adequate accommodation . 

( c ) In every change room , a shower shall be provided for every 25 persons or 
part thereof, washing facilities for every 10 persons or part thereof, and a locker 
for every worker working in a shift. 

( d ) Change rooms shall be kept clean and in a ganitary condition . They shall 
be located where they will not introduce or aggravate accident, fire or health 
hazards. 


( e ) Change rooms shall also be provided near the drilling wells and other 
places or at any other place required by Regional Inspector by an order in writing. 


150 . Smoking and lighters ( 1 ) Smoking shall not be done in areas subject to 
contamination by inflammable liquids or gases. 


( 2 ) Welder s torch lighters of the spark type shall not be taken or used in 
areas where the atmosphere is contaminated or likely to be contaminated with 
Inflammable vapours or gases or where sources of ignition are forbidden , unless 
sheathed or otherwise protected against accidental operation . 


151, Fire protection ( 1 ) Sufficient supply of sand or incombustible dust or 
sumicient portable fire extinguishers and other fire fighting cquipment shall be 
provided at every working place , at every enginę house , at every place where 
timbur , canvas , oil or other inflanmable material is stored and at every other place 
where there is likelihood of danger from fire . 

( 2 ) Soda Acid type extinguisher or water shall not be used for fighting oll 
fires or electrical fire. 

(3 ) Foam type extinguisher shall not be used for Aghting electrical an . 


REC. 3(1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 CHAITRA 25 . 1885 


729 


( 4 ) Fire extinguishers containing chemical which are liable when operated to 
give off poisonous or noxious gases , shall not be provided or used in enclosed or 
confined plact s. 

( 5 ) In the vicinity of working places or where combustible materials are stored 
water tanks fitted with pumps and hoses shall be provided for the purpose of 
extinguishing fire . 

( 6 ) Foam lines shall not be used to transfer petroleum product. 

( 7 ) A hose carrying steam used for cleaning , fire protection or other purposes 
shall be equipped with one or more handles near the discharge end of the hose . 
The handle or handles shall be of a type that will protect the operator from burns 
by heated metal or steam . 

(8 ) After being used, the fire fighting equipment shall promptly be made 
serviceable and restored to their proper location . 

( 9 ) To prevent fire at locations where welding, flame cutting or other sources 
of ignition are to be used the following precautions shall be taken : 
(a ) A twelve litre foam type extinguisher or equivalent shall be kept 

readily available . 
( b ) Floors or ground so oil - soaked as to present a fire hazard shall be 

covered with clean earth or other incombustible material or flushed 

or sprayed with water . 
( 10 ) Light oils shall not be used for cleaning purposes in locations, where 
there is risk of fire or ignition . 

( 11 ) Fire fighting equipment shall be inspected and tested once at least in 
every month by a competent person appointed for the purpose, and maintained in 
serviceable condition . A report of cvery such inspection and testing shall be kept 
in a bound paged book kept for the purpose and shall be signed and dated by the 
person making such examination , 

152 . Hazardous Areas. --- ( 1) When it is doubtful whether sources of ignition 
may be safe for use in an area , a competent person shall make a test by chemical 
analysis or with an approved testing device to determine the percentage of 
inflammable gas or vapour present in the area . 

(2 ) No source of ignition shall be permitted in an area where the content of 
inflammable gas is more than 14 percent of the lower explosive - limit. 

153. Spontaneous ignition . - ( 1 ) Iron sulphide shall be kept wet after removal 
from the inside of tanks and vessels until transferred to a safe place. 

( 2 ) Where lime is used inside a vessel to dehydrate the oil or gas , steel wool 
shall not be used as a porous medium to hold the lime in place . 

154 Static Electricity - - ( 1 ) Where not effectively earthed by contact or con 
nection , suitable provision shall be made to prevent the accumulation of static 
electrical charges which may create a source of ignition in the presence of 
inflammable gases . 

( 2 ) Steel derricks and masts shall be earthed at wells where they are not 
inherently earthed and where a hazard from static electricity exists and there is a 
probability of inflammable gas being released to the atmosphere in sufficient 
quantity to create a hazard to workers should it become ignited . 

( 3 ) Stationary tanks containing light oils shall be earthed . 

( 4 ) When hose or piping is used to introduce air , inert gas or steam in the 
cleaning or ventilation of tanks and vessels that contain hazardous concentrations 
of inflammable gases, the nozzle shall be bonded to the tank or vessel shell, 
Bonding devices shall not be attached or detached in hazardous concentrations of 
inflammable gases . 

(5 ) Conductors for bonding and earthing shall be of adequate current carrying 
capacity . 

(6 ) Bonding and earthing devices temporarily clamped or clipped to movable 
equipment shall have a conductor long enough to ensure effective attachment to 
the devices . It shall be of stranded wire and of adequate capacity . 


740 


TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 / CHAITRA 23 , 1885 


( Part II – 


155 . Inflammable waste gases , — ( 1 ) Inflammable waste gases shall be burnt or 
controlled to prevent hazardous concentration reaching source of ignition or 
otherwise endangering workers. 

( 2 ) When a flare is used to burn inflammable waste gases, the following pre 
cautions shall be taken : 
( a ) Reliable and safe means of remote ignition shall be provided whenever 

hydrocarbon gases are released to the air through flares. 
( b ) Flares shall be so located that gases not burnt are dispersed without 

creating serious hazard to workers . 
( C ) Means shall be provided to prevent the prolonged escape of hazardous 

quantity of unburnt gases or vapours from flare installations, provided 
that where automatic warning devices are used they shall be tested 

regularly to make sure that they operate. 
( d ) Workers shall not enter or be permitted to enter the area where a fre 

has become extinguished , and the means of igniting the flare has 
failed , until tests establish that the area is free from Inflammable or 

noxious gas. 
156. Steam stuffer valve Steam stuffer valve shall be provided at the wells and 
shall be operated in case a well is on fire . 

157. Location of bollers etc . - No steam boilers , heaters and other sources of 
fire shall be located within a distance of 45 metres from oil well. 

158 . Precautions against fire and Ignition in enclosed and confined places .- - ( 1 ) 
Adequate provision shall be made in buildings, rooms, cellars , sumps, pits , shafts 
or similarly enclosed places so that the workers are not endangered by accumula 
tions of hazardous concentrations of inflammable or noxious gases involving risk 
of fire or ignition . 

( 2 ) ( a ) No worker shall be required or permitted to enter or remain within 
a confined space until such confined space is found gas free by a compctent person , 
unless the worker wears suitable and approved respiratory equipment. 

(b ) Confined spaces that contain or that have last been used as containers of 
gases , light oils, hydrogen sulphide, corrosive or poisonous substances shall, in 
every case , be tested by means of approved devices or chemical analysis before 
being entered without wearing approved respiratory equipment, 


( c ) Tanks, vessels or other confined spaces having openings or manholes in 
the sides as well as in the top shall be entered from the side openings or manholes 
when practicable . 

( d ) An approved safety belt with a life line attached or other approved device 
shall be used by workers wearing respiratory equipment within tanks, vessels or 
other confined places where there is likelihood of danger from inflammable gases . 

( e ) If the entry is through a top opening , the safety belt shall be of the harness 
type that suspends a person in an upright position and has a safety line attached . 
The other end of the line shall be secured outside the entry opening, 

( 1) At least one worker shall stand by on the outside while workers are inside , 
ready to give assistance in case of emergency . 

( g ) If entry is through a top opening at least one additional worker shall be 
within sight and call of the stand -by worker . 


( h ) When conditions in a confined space are such that require workers within 
It to wear respiratory equipment, there shall be at least two persons, other than 
the stand -by workers , equipped with approved respiratory equipment. The men 
80 equipped may be within the confined space at the same time, but if they are 
outside, while a man so equipped is inside, they shall be within the sight and call 
of the stand -by worker . 

( i ) Beforc work is performed in a confined space , provisions shall be made for 
ready entry and exit , 

(1 ) At least one person shall be immediately available to administer artificial 
respiration while work is being performed inside « confined space. 


ABC. 3 (1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15 , 1909 /CHAITRA 23. 1885 


741 


( k ) All work shall be arranged in short periods in any confined space, when 
atmospheric conditions are nauseating or where prolonged exposure on such 
condition will be harmful to workmen . 

( 1 ) No source of ignition shall be inside a confined space where there is likeli 
hood of danger from inflammable liquids or gases, except with the prior permission 
of Regional Inspector in writing , subject to such conditions as he may specify 
therein . 


( m ) When work is being performed in two or more tanks or vessels which are 
blinded off as a unit, the atmosphere in each tank or vessel of such a unit shall be 
tested and the highest concentration of gases so found shall govern the procedure 
to be followed for all work inside each tank or vessel of such a unit , 

169 . Gas testing - Tests for presence of inflammable or noxious gases shall only 
be made by chemical analysis or by approved devices or apparatus and conducted 
by competent persons, specially appointed for the purpose . If any dispute arises 
whether any such person is competent, to carry out such test, the matter shall be 
referred to the Chief Inspector for decision , 

180 . Submission of plans and specifications of pipe lines ato . Plans and 
specifications showing the proposed layout and dimensions of all permanent oil 
and gas pipe lines and plant shall be submitted to the Chief Inspector and the 
work of construction shall not be commenced until his sanction in writing has 
been obtained . Such plans shall also show all features required to be shown on 
the plan maintained under clause ( a ) of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 37, 

Similar plans for the existing pipe lines shall be submitted within three months 
from the date of coming into force of these regulations. 

161. Structures in the vicinity of shafts and wells . — No materials other than 
incombustible and non inflammable materials shall ho used in the construction of 
any permanent supports and structures within 60 metres of any shaft and wells . 


CHAPTER XV - MISCELLANEOUS 


162. Fences . — ( 1 ) Every entrance to the top of every working, or pumping shaft, 
top of every open excavation and top of pvery tank or reservoir shall be kept 
securely fenced : 

Provided that any fence, gate or barricade may be temporarily removed for 
the purpose of repairs or other operations if proper precautions are taken . 

( 2 ) Shafts temporarily or permanently out of use and any place in or about 
any excavation which is dangerous shall be securely fenced . 

(9 ) Every fly wheel and all expoged or dangerous parts of the machinery used 
in and about a mine shall be kept gecurely fenced . 

( 4 ) Adequate guards shall be provided for such parts of any machinery and 
any electrical conductors as may be a source of dang - r . 

( 5 ) If any doubt arises as to whether any dangerous part of machinery , place 
is adequately guarded or not and as to whether any fence, guard , barrier or gate 
provided within the mine for safety of persons is adequate, proper or secured , it 
shall be referred to the Chief Inspector for decision , 

( 6 ) A competent person or persons appointed for the purpose shall once at 
least in every seven days, make a thorough inspection of all machinery , plant and 
fencing and shall record the results thereof in bound paged books kept for the 
purpose . 

163. Detective Machinery . - - If any person when in charge of any machinery , 
apparatus or applianc- s used in or about a mine observes any defect or dangerous 
flaw therein , he shall immediately rerort the fact to the manager , engineer or other 
responsible official. 

164. Discipline. - ( 1 ) Every person shall strictly comply with all lawful orders 
Issued by the manager or such other official as may be empowered by the manager 
to issue the same. 

( 2 ) No person occupying any position of trust in or about a mine shall depute 
another person to do his work without the sanction of the official to whom he is 


742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 / CHAITRA 28, 1885 


(PART II 


subordinate and no such person shall absent himself without having previously 
obtained permission from such official for the term of his absence or without 
having been relieved by a competent person . 

163. General Safoty . - ( 1 ) No person shall negligently or wilfully do anything 
likely to endanger life or limb in the mine, or negligently or wilfully omit to do 
anything necessary for the safety of the mine or persons employed therein , 

( 2 ) No person shall damage, destroy or improperly interfere with anything 
provided for or used in the mine, 

( 3 ) No person shall remove or pass through any fence or remove or pass any 
danger signal unless so specially authorised by the manager or an official 
empowered by the manager in that behalf, 

166 . Cleanliness . - ( 1) Every cellar shall be kept clean at all times. Mud and 
gilt shall be hosed and ejucted out of the cellar daily . 

( 2 ) Derrick floors shall, as far as possible, be kept clear of tools and equipment. 
( 3 ) Casing rack walkways shall be kept clear at all times. 
(4 ) The area around the rigs shall be kept clear of accumulations of oil . 

(5 ) The arzu around the vibrating screens and the mud ditches shall be kept 
clean . 

167, Wharves and Piers , - ( 1 ) This regulation shall apply to all wharves and 
piers which are constructed over a body of water to facilitate the operations of 
drilling an oil or gas well and also for the production and maintenance operations 
of such wolls , including storage and handling of oil and gas. 

( 2) Every wharf and pler shail be substantially constructed and kept in good 
repair . 

( 3 ) Pipe lines that are continuous from shore to a wharf or pier and used to 
transport inflammable liquids or gases shall be fitted with valves on shore so 
located as to be readily accessible and not endangered by a fire on the whart or 
pler . 

( 4 ) Drip pans, buckets or other means shall be provided and shall be used to 
prevent oil spillage upon wharves or piers during loading or unloading operations 
and when disconnecting and draining a hose or pipe. The contents of drip pans 
and buckets after such operation are completed shall be taken to a safe place for 
disposal. 

( 5 ) During th : transfer of oil through a hose , materials shall be handled in 
guch a manner that the hose will not be cndangered . 

( 0 ) Each pier or whart shall be provided with at least two ring type life - buoys. 
If the picr is over 60 metres in length , at least one such life - buoy shall be provided 
for each additional 10 metres over water. Lite- buoys shall be kept readily avail 
able for use . 

( 7 ) Each life -buoy shall have at last 15 metres of 1.25 centimetres diameter 
line attached to it. The line shall be of manila fibre or equivalent and shalı be 
securely fastened to the buoy and not to the grabline of the buoy . 

( 8 ) Persons working on or below the decking of a whart or pier shall be 
protected against falling into the water by use of adequate platforms equipped with 
railings or by use of safety belts and life lines or other means affording equivalent 
protection . 

( 9 ) Wat - r lights used at wharves or piers shall be of a type approved by the 
Chief Inspector , 

( 10 ) Persons working in wharves and plers shall, as far as practicable , be 
swimmers . 

168. Writing Reports . If any person required by these regulations or by any 
rule or bye - law made under the Act to make any report is unable to write , he 
shall be pres nt when a report is writien for him and shall have it read over to 
him and shall put his thumb impression on it. The person writing the report 
shall also sign his name at the end together with the statement that it has been 
read over to the person 1or whom it was written . 


So. ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1963 /CHAITRA 9 , 1885 


743 


169 . Notices to be displayed. Whcre in any place unauthorised entry is pro 
bibited , notice to that effect shall be posted at conspicuous places at overy entrance 
to guch place . 

170 , Poisonous matter . ( 1 ) Water containing poisonous or injurious matter i 
suspension or solution shall be cffectively fenced off to prevent inadvertent access 
to it and notice boards shall be put up at suitable places to warn persons from 
making use of such water , 

( 2 ) In no case, water containing poisonous matter in suspension or solution in 
dangerous concentration shall be permitted to escape. 

171 , Protective Equipment. Where it appears to the Regional Inspector or the 
Chief Inspector that any person or class of persons is exposed to undue hazard 
by reason of his employmint and for his protection any express provision has not 
been made in these regulations, he may, by a gencral or special order require the 
provision and use of such protective equipnient as h inay specify therein . 


172 , Place of Accident not to be disturbed. — When any accident in a mine 
results in seriously bodily injury to three or more persons or any loss of lives , the 
places of accident shall not be disturbed or altered before the arrival or without 
the consent of an Inspector unless such disturbance or alteration is necessary to 
prevent further accidents to remove bodies or to rescue person from danger or 
unless dis - continuance of work at the place would seriously impede the working 
of the mine : 

Provided that should an inspector fail to make an inspection within 72 hours 
of the time of accident, work may be resumed at the place of the accident. 

173 . Colloction of samples from mine. - Wherz for official purposes , an Inspector 
monsiders it necessary to take samples of any mineral, rope or other macerial, the 
owner agent or manager shall make over to him such samples in any such 
quantities as he may require . 

174. Signing of Returns, Notices and Correspondenco . - All reports and notices 
required under or correspondence made in connection with the provisions of the 
Act and of the Regulations and orders mad . thereunder shall be signed by the 
owner, agent or manager of the mine : 


Provided that the owner may by a Power of Attorney , delegate this function to 
any other specified person , 

175 . Chief Inspector to exorcise powers of Regional Inspector , — Any power 
runted under these regulations to the Regional Inspector or the Inspector may be 
exercised by the Chief Inspector or Additional Chief Inspector or Deputy Chief 
Inspector and any other Inspector authorised in writing in this behalf by the Chief 
Inspector, 

176 . Exemptions. — The Chief Inspector may ex mpt in writing, subject to any 
condition as he may specify therein , any mine or part thereof from the operation 
of any of the provisions of these regulation , if he is of the pinion that conditiong 
in the mins or part thereof are such as to render compliance with such provisions 
unnecessary or impracticable . 

177 . Appeals to Chief Inspector, - ( 1 ) Against an order made by the Regional 
Inspector or an Inspector under any of these regulations, an appeal shall lie , withiu 
15 days of the recoipt of the order by the appellant to the Chief Inspector who may 
confirm , modify or cancel the order . 

178 . Appeals to Mining Boards. - ( 1 ) Against any order of the Chief Inspector 
u appeal shall lie , within 20 days of the receipt of the order by the appellant, to 
the Mining Board constituted under section 12 of the Act or if no Mining Board has 
been constituted for the area in which the mine or part thereof is situated to the 
Central Government. 

( 2 ) Every order of the Chiif Inspector against which an appeal is preferred 
under Sub - regulation ( 1 ) shall be complied with pending the receipt at the mine 
of the decision of the mining board or the Central Government as the case may 
be : 

Provided that the Mining Board or the Central Government as the case may 
te, may on application by the appellant, suspend the operation of th order 
appealed against pending the disposal of the appeal. 


HA 


744 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - APRIL 19 , 1968 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 ( PART I , 

= = = 

- -- - - - - -- G - - - 
179. Submission of returns, notices etc . — All returns, notices and other written 
communication required to be sent or submitted under these regulations shall be 
done by registered post or such other manner as would be a conclusive proof of 
their having been so gent or submitted . 

180 . Repeal and Saving . -- The Indian Oil Mines Regulations 1933 are hereby 
Tepealed ; 

Provided that all the acts done and orders issued under any of the said Regula 
tions shall so far as they are not inconsistent with these regulations be deemed to 
have been done or issued under the corresponding provisions of these regulations . 


SCHEDULE 

FORM I 
( Soo Regulations 3, 6 , 7, 8) 
Notice of opening, closing or change etc , 


Trom 


1 . The Chief Inspector of Mines , Dhunbad , E .R . 
2 . The Regional Inspector of Mincs . . . . ... . .. 


gir, 


I have to furnish the following particulars in respect of (1) . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (name) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . oil mine of . . . . . . . 


owners): 


I . * In case of CHANGE OF NAME OF MINE : 

Old name of mine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . date of change . ..... . . . 


2 . ( 1 ) Situation of the mine : Village . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Police 
Station . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . Şub - Division ( Talua ) . . . . . . . 
District . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . SUD -D 


Y1910n 


( 1810 


) . . . . 


. 


. . . 


. . . . 


. . . . 


* (2 ) In case of A NEW MINE , particulars of situation of ninc : 

Post office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Telegraph office . . . . . . . 
Railway Station . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rest House . . . . . 

(Give distances therefrom ) 
Means of travelling . . . . . . . . 


Present 


Previous * 


3 . (I) Name and Postal address of (11 ) 

(a ) Owner . . . 
(6 ) Managing Agent, if any , . 
(c) Agent, if any 
(d ) Manager . . . . . 
2 ) In case of change , the date of change , . . . . . . 


SLO . 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1968 /CHAITRA 29 . 1845 


745 


4 . ( 1 ) Name and qualifications etc. of Manager /Assistant Manager /Engineer / Surveyor (ii 

whose appointment is terminated /who is appointed ( iii) : 
(2) Date of appointment/termination of appointment ( iii) 


* s. Dato on which it is intended to open /rcopen /abandon /discontinue ( ii ) the mine . 


* 6 . Actual date of opening /rcopening /abandonment/discontinuance (iii ) of the mine. 


Yours faithfully , 
Signature . . . .. . 
Designation - Owner/Agent/Manager 
Dato . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Fastructions : 

* Only such columns to be filled in respect of which notice is given , 
1 ) Mention the matter to which the notice refert . 
61) Need not be filled in if the notice relates to item 4 . 
( 1 ) Delete whichever is not applicable , 


SCHEDULE 


FORM II 


( Soc Regulation 4 ) 
Quarterly Return for the quarter ending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 
1. Namc of Mine . . . . . . . 

Postal address of Mine. . . . . . . 
2. Situation of Mine: Place . 

...... . .District . . . . 
State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
3. Name of Owner. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
4 . Name of Managing Agents , if any . .. . . . . 

Postal address of Managing Agents . .. . .. 
3 . Name of Agent, if any . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Postal address of Agent . . . . 
6 . Name of Manager . . .. . . 

Postal address of Manager . . . . . . . . . . . 
7 . Tables A to D duly filled in , are attached . 
Certified that the information given above and in Tables A to D below is correct to the 
best of my knowledge . 

Signature . . ... . . ..... .. . 
Designation : Owner/Agent/Manager 
Date , . . . . . . 


746 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15, 1963 / CHAITRA 23 , 1883 
= - = = - = = = - = - = - = - " : 

- - - - - - 

S 
TABLE A - OUTPUT * 


[PART 11 

S 


Name of Mine . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. 
Return for Quarterending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Type of Oil 


Opening | Output of Value of 
stock on Crude Oil 1 Oil 
the Ist day 
of the Qr. 


Despatches 

| Closing 

stock 
To refi- | For Ex 

| For 
nery port market| house con 

sumption 
SA 

5B 


¡ 


SC 


ER 


Signature 
Designation ; Owner/Agent/Manager 
Date . . . . . . . . . 


Instruction 
The figures should be stated in Kilolitrcs . 
< Value should be calculated upon actual or cstimated selling price at the mine. Any 

charges incurred in transporting the oil outside the mine property should not bc in 
cluded . Royalty figures will not be accepted . 


TABLE B - MACHINERY 
Name of the Mine . . . . . 
Return for Quarter ending . . . . . . . . . 


@ Classification 


Number in usc 


I. Drills 


( iv ) 
2 . Conveyors 
3 . Pumps in Operation 


4 . Other Machinery 


Signature . . . . . . . 
Designation : Owner / Agent Manager 


Date . . 


Instructions 


ByGive types separately . 
Give lengths in metres . 


SEO . 3 (1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1968 / CHAITRA 28, 1835 


747 


TABLE C - NUMBER OFMAN -DAYS, ETC . 
Give maximum number of persone employed on any day during the quarter . . . . . . . . 

(number ) on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( a ) 
Number of working days during the quarter : 


(c) 


Aggregate number of Aggregate number of man - daye lost OR 
Classification man - days worked 

account of absence 
(b ) 
Men Women Sick - | Acci- Leave Other Total 
ness dent 

cause 
(c) Clerical and Supervisory 
staff ( f) . 

Supervisors i 
(ii) Clerks . 
(5 ) Other workers employed 
at . 

Shafts 
( 11 ) Drilling wells 
( 111 ) Servicing wells 
(iv ) Workshops etc. 
( ) Miscellaneous 


TOTAL 


If there is any marked increase or decrease in attendance or absence , please account for it . 

Signature . . . . . . . . . . . 
Designation : Owner/Agent/Manager 
Date 


D 


i 


te 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


Instructions 


fa ) Give day of the week and the date and month . 
0 ) The information should cover all persons " employed in the mires as defined in Claude 

(h ) of Section 3 of theMincy Act, 1952 , including clerical and subordinate supervisory 
staff. 


( ) Total number of mandays worked should be obtained by adding the daily attenduoce 

for the whole quarter. 
( 1) Total number of man -days lost by absence should be obtained by adding the daily 

absences for the whole quarter , 
6 ) Absences sliould include all cases in which a person is scheduled to work or s cxpected 

to turn up for work , but does not. All permanent employees are to be trcated H 
scheduled to work . So far as temporary or casual employees are concerned , i person 
who attended work during the preceding week should be considered as scheduled to 

work during the week under consideration unless 
(1) he has reported his intention to quit; or 
( ii ) his services have been terminated by the management; or 

(111 ) he does not turn up for work during the whole week , 

A person who has not worked during the preceding week , should be considered as scheduled 
to work only from the day in which he joinswork cluring the week under consideration . Absence 
due to strike, lockout , lay off or maternity leave should not be included as absence here . 

Supervisory staff does not include senior, officers like agent, manager, agaietant manager , 
welfare officer etc . but includes , only the subordinate supervisory staff like Foreman , Mate etc. 


748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1968 /CHAITRA 25 , 1885 


[PART U 


EN 


TABLE D - HOURS OF WORK AND EARNINGS 
Name of the Miac 
Return for quarter ending . . . . . .. . . 

Information should be furnished in respect of one complete working wcek during the last 
nonth of the quarter ( a ). 

I . Attendances , man -hours worked and cash tarnings. 


Classification 


Totalcash paymepts for work done during the 

wcek 

( d ) 


Averige Aggregate 

daily number 
attendance of man 
during the hours 
weck worked 
(b ) during the 

week ( c ) 


Total 


Basic 
wages 


Dearness Other 
allowance cash pay 

mçats ( ) 


Men Wo - Men Wo- | M 1WM W |MW |MW 
men 

men 


(a ) Clerical and 

Supervisory 
Staff (f) — 

Supervisors 
(O ) Clerks 
(b ) Other workers 
cmployed at 

Shafts 
( 11 ) Drilling wells . 
( 11) Servicing wells 
fid ) Workshops etc . 
( 0 ) Miscellaneous 


2 . Total catimated value of concessions in kind (8 ) given during the week : Rs.. . . . . .. 
3 . Normal hours of working shifts : 


From 


I 


TO 


Ist Shift . 
and Shift . 
3rd Shift 


4. Number of working days in the week . 

5. If th :re is any mijor change in wages or hours of work as compared to the preceding quar 
ht, pleasc account for the change here, 


Signature 
Designation : Owner /Agent/Manager 
Date . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . 


Instructions 
(a ) The information should cover all persons employed as in Table C . Particulars relat 

ing to payments etc . to monthly paid staff should be included on pro - rata basis . 
(b ) Average daily attendance should he obtained by dividing the aggregatc number of 

attendances on all the shifts on all days during the week by the number of working 
days. Any day on which the mine did not work , for any cause whatsoever , should not 

be treated as a working day . 
(© ) Aggregate numberofman - hours worked during the week should be obtained by adding 

for the whole week , the number of man -hours worked every day . The number of 
man -hoursworked on a day is obtained by summing to the numberof hours worked 
bycoch person attending work on cach of the shifts during the day , including overtime 
worked , if any. 


S . & THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19 , 1968 /CHAITRA 25 , 1686 749 

= - = -- - - - - - - - - - 
( d ) Total cash payments should include all remuneration payable and paid ) for work donc 

during the week before making deductions , if any, towards fines , provident fund con 
tributions, crc . Employers contribution to any provident fund or an account of wel 
fare provisions should nut be included . 

Bonuses not payable for every pay- period should also not be included . 
(6 ) Including over-time payments . 
D ) Supervisory staff does not include senior officers like agent, manager, 9681618nt mare get , 

Waltare Oficer etc . but includes only the subordinale supervisory staff like Forcmon , 

mate etc . 
( a ) Concessions in kind such as supply of food - stuff, fuel, electricity , water ctc. free or at 

subgiuigcd prices) shouli bu estined in timsof th : di lerenc betucen the monet ry 
value of the food stuff etc . at cost price and the value Tcalised by sale at concessional 
price . 


FORM III 


( Soo Regulation — 5) 
Annual Return for the year ending on the 31st December, 19 . 

1. Name of the Mine . . . . . 
2. Postal address of Mine, .. 
3. Date of Opening . .. . . . . .. . . . 
4. Date of Closing (If closed ). .. . . .. . 
5 . Situation of the Mine : District . . . . . . 

State . . . . . . . . 

in . . . 
6 . Name of Owner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Postal address of Owner , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
7 . Name of Managing Agents (if any ) . . . . . . . 

Postal address of Managing Agents . . . . . . . . . 
1. Name of Agent( if any) as defincd in Section 2 (c ) of the Mince Act , 1952 . . . . . . . 

Postal address of Agent . . . . . . . . . . 
. . Name of Manager . . . . . . . 

Postal address of Manager . . 
10 . Other superior supervisory staff employed ay at the end of the year ( Pltase give decię118 

tions and pumbers employed ) . 


- VYLY 


U 


VOD 


1441448 


. . . . . . . II 


I 


I . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . 


. 


. . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
11. (a ) Whether machinery is used .. . . . .. 

(6) Nature of power used , if any ( e.g . clectricity , atram , compressed air, etc .. . . . . . . . . . . . 
Il . Tables A to F duly filled in , ac attacliect . 

Certified that the information given above and in Tables A to F bclou jy correct to the 
best of my knowledge . 


Signature 
Designation : Owner /Agent/Manager. 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


750 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13 , 1969 / CHAITRA 28, 1885 


(Part 


Table A - - EMPLOYMENT 


Name of the Minc . . . . . . 

Return for the year ending . . . .. . . . . 

Maximum number of persons employed on any one day during the year .. . .. . . 
Sumber) . . . . . (a ) 


. . . . . 


Total number of 
man -days worked 
during the year 

( b ) 


| Averege daily number of 

persons employed 


Number 

of days 
worked 
during 
the year 


Total 
wage or 
salary bill 
for the 
year 


Classification 


Con - | Total 
tract 
labour 


Men 


Wo- Adole - Total 
men sents 


2A 


2B2C 


3 


4A 


4B 


4C 


4D 


( a ) Clerical and super 
visory staff ( e) 

) Supervisor 
(11 ) Clerks . 
(b ) Other workers emp 

loyed at 
(1) Shafts 
( it ) Drilling wells . 
(111 ) Servicing wells 
(iv ) Workshops etc. . 
( v ) Miscellaneous . 


TOTAL 


, 


Signature . . . .. . .. 
Designation : Owner /Agent/Manager 


Date . , . , . . . . . . . . . . . 


Instructions 


(a ) Give day of the week and the date and month , 


(6 ) Obtained by adding the daily attendances for the whole year. 


( c) Obtained by dividing the number of man - days worked by the number of working days . 

The total shown in column (4D ) should agree with the quotient obtained by dividing 
the total shown in column (2C ) by the number of working days shown in colann ( 3 ) . 


( d ) Includes all cash payments including bonuses . Employers contributions to my provi 

dent funds, welfare activities etc . and concessions in kind should not be included . 


( . ) Supervisory staff does not include scnior officers like agent, manager , assistunt moriger 

welfare officer etc . but includes only the subordinate supervisory staff like ForcmAH 
Mate , etc . 


SEC . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


751 


TABLE B - TYPE AND AGGREGATE HORSE POWER OF ELECTRICAL APPARATUS 


Name of Mine . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Return for the year ending . 
1. Electricity generated , purchased or received otherwise ( in kwh ) 


Generated | Purchased or received 


( a ) For Own use 
( 6 ) For sale , 


2 . System of supply (whether direct current or alternating current) : 


Voltage of supply 
( ii ) Periodicity 
( iii ) Source of supply 


3 . Voltage at which current is used for : 


( ) Lighting 
(11 ) Power 


4 . Length of cables (in metres) 


(1) High Pressure 
(1 ) Medium pressure 


s. Total number and aggregate horse power of motors 


In use 


In reserve 


Number of Total 

units 1 h . p . 


Number 
of units 


Total 
h .p . 


(1) Drills 
(ii) Họist8 . 
(iii) Pumping . . . 
(iv ) Traction . . 

Ventilation 
( vi) Portable machines 
( vii) Conveyors 
( viit) Workshops including foundry , smithy etc. 
(ix ) Miscellaneous (specify ) 


. . . . . . . ... 


TOTAL . 


. 


Signature 
Designation : Owner/ Agent/Manager 
Datc . . . . . . . 


752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1968 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[Part II -- 


TABLA G - Type AND AGGREGATB HORSE POWBR OF MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT OTHER 

THAN ELECTRICAL APPARATUS 
Name of the Mjne . . . . 
Return for the year ending . . . . . . . . 


In uge 


In reserve 


Number of 

units 


Total 
h . p . 


Number of 
1 units 


Total 
h . p . 


I. Power Generation ; 

( a ) Boilers 
b ) Steam Turbincs . 
( c ) Diesel Engines 

Gasolina, Gas or Oil Engines other than 

Diesel Engincs 
(c) Hydraulic Turbines or Water Wheels . 
U Air Compressore 


TOTAL , 


. 


. 


. 


II, Machinery : 

( ) Drills 
(1 ) Holste 

11) Pumping , 
lid ) Traction 
( US Ventilation 
(wi) Portable machine 
(uri) Conveyors 
(viii ) Workshops . 
(ix ) Miscellaneous (specify ) 


TOTAL . 


. 


. 


. 


-- 


: - 


Signature 
Designation : Owner/Agent/Manager 
Date . . . . . . . . . . 


TABLE D - EXPLOSIVES, SAFETY LAMPS, ROCIR DRILLS, MECHANICAL VENTILATORS , 

DERRICKS AND MASTS 
Name of the Mine . . . . . . 

Return for the year ending . . . . 
1 . Explosives 


Names of Explosives 


Quantity 

used 
( in Kgms) 


Number of Detona 

tors used 
Electric Ordinary 


Src , $(1) 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 / CHAITKA 28 , 1885 


751 


2 . Safety Lamps 


Name and type of Safety Lamps 


Number of Safety Lamps accord 
ing to method of locking 


IT 


Lead Rlvet Magnetic 


Other 


Hฟา 


* Mention type , such as flame type , electric hand type, electric cap type. 


3. Rock Drills 


Name and type etc. of rock drills 


Number in use 


Hin 


4 . Mechanical Ventilators 


Name and size of mechanical Position where 
ventilator 

| installed 


Average total quan 
tity of air delivered 
per minute 


Water guage ob 
| tained in (Cms.) 


Hui 


5 . Derricks and Masts 


LE 


NUMBER 


In use 


Disconti 

nued 


I . Steel , 
2 . Wooden 
3 . Others 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Signature . . . . . . . . . . 


Designation : Owner/Agent/Menager 


Date . 


784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1969 /CHAITRA 23, 1885 


[Part II 


TABLE E - OIL WELLS SHAFTS , DERRICKS AND MASTS . 


Name of the Mino . . . . . . . . . . . 


Return for the year ending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Name of the wells and Shafts 


Type 


Classifica - 
tion 

(b ) 


Depth in 
metres 


(a ) 


Ir 


- u 


Signature . .. ... .. .. .. 
Designation : Owner/ Agent/Manager, 


Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Instructions 
(a ) State whether (1 ) Prospecting , (2 ) Working , (3) Temporarily discontinued or (4) Aban 

doned . 
(b) State whether (1) Drilling wells , (2) Producing wells , (3) Servicing well or (1 ) 

Shafts, 
Wells of same classification should be placed together . 


SFC. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1969 /CHAITRA 28, 1885 


755 


- 


- 


- 


- 


TABLE F - OUTPUT OF OIL (a ) 


. . . . . 


. 


. 


. 


. . . 


. . . . . . . . 


. . . . 


. . . . . . . . 


. . . 


Name of the Mine .. . .. . .. . 
Return for the year ending .. . . .. .. . . .. 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


I 


I 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


- 


- - - 


Despatches 


Type of Oil Opening | Output of Value of 

Stock on | Crude Oill Oil Pru 
Ist Jan . 19 

duced (6 


TO 


Refinery 


| For 

export 
market 


Closing 

stock on 
For 31st Dec 
house ember , 19 
congump- 1 
tion 


Signature . . . . . . . 
Designation : Owner /Agent /Manager. 


Date . . . . . . . . 


Instructions 


(a ) The figures should be stated in Kilolitres . 
(1) Value should be calculated upon actual or estimated selling price at the minc. Any 

charges incurred in transporting the oil outside the mine property should not be in 
cluded . Royalty figures will not be accepted . 


my 56 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 / CHAITRA 29, 1885 


[ Part 11 


FORM IV - A 
( See Regulation ) 
Notice of accident/occurrence 


From 


1. The Chief Inspector of Mines, Dhanbad , E . Rly . 
2 . The Regional Inspector of Mines,. .. .. .. ..... 
3. The District Magistrate/District Collector .. . .. .. . 
4 . The Electric Inspector of Mines ( in case of electrical accident only ) Dhanbad , E . Rly * 


Sir , 


I have to furnish the following particulars of a fatal accident/a serious accident/a dangerous 
occurrence (1) which occurred at the. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,mine of . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . (owner) : 

I, Particulars of the Mine : 


Situation of Minc 


Name and postal address of Owner 


Village . 
Post Office 
Police Station 
Sub -Division ( Talug) 
District 
State , . 


. 


2 . Particulars of the accident/ occurrence 


Date and hours of accident/occurrence 


Place and 
Location 
in mine 


Number of person (s) 
Killed Seriously injured 


Classification of accident/ occurrence (li) 


Its cause and description 


SEO. 8(i)] 


THE GWRITE OR INDIA : APRIL 13, 1963 / CHAITRA 23, 1343 


757 


3 . Particulars of injuries etc . 


Nanie of person (8) 

( III) 


Nature of employment Age 


Sex 


Nature of injury and 
if fatal, cause of 

doath (iv ) 


Killed 


Injured 


Particulars in respect of every person , killed or injured , in form IV - B are enclosed /shall be 
forwarded within a weck (i) . 

Yours faithfully 
Signaturo 
Designation : Owner /Agent /Manager , 
Detę , . . . . . . . . . . . , 


Instructions 


(1) Delete whatever is not applicable , 
(ii ) Under one or other of the following heads, namely : 
I. (a ) Explosion and ignition of inflamable gas or liquid . 

(6 ) Blow out, 
2 . Falls of ground , 
3 . Traction , 
4 . In shafts. 
5 . Explosives. 
6 . (a ) Machinery . 

(h ) Bursting of pipes, 
7. Suffocation by gases. 
8 . Irruption of water. 
9. Premature collapse of workings. 
10. Outbreak of fire or spontaneous heating . 
11. At railway sidings belonging to themine. 
12 . Electricity. 

13 . Miscellaneous . 
( iii ) In block capital. 
(iv ) Attach separate sheet, if necessary , 


758 


TIIL GAZE I TF or INDI4 APRIL 13 , 1969 / CHAU RA 29 1885 


[PART II – 


V 


. 


FORM IV - B 


( See Regulation 9 ) 

Particulars of Deceased / Injured person 
( To be given separately in respect of every person killed or injured in an accident in the mine ) 
I. General 

(1) Name of the mine .. .. .. . 
(11) Owner 
( 111) District 
( xv ) State . . . 
2 . Name of injured worker 
3 Timc of Accident 
(1) Date 

. . (12) Time 
( 111 ) Shift 
(10 ) Number of shifts worked per day at the ininc 

(v ) Time when the worker began work on the day of the Accident . . . .. . . . . . . . 
4 . Occupation and Experience of the worker : 

(1) State the nature of job he was doing at the time of accident . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(11) Was it his regular occupation ? 
( a ) If yes , state length of experience at the occupation . 

at your mine 

previous experience , if any 
(b ) If no, state how long employed at this job 
( 111 ) State total cxperience in mining 
(iv) Give details of experience in mlning work . . . . . . . , 
5 . Place of Accident 
6 . Nature of Injury : 
Srate whthor fractur :, amputation , laceration , brune, sprail, cru lung injury or other 

( to be specified ) 
( 12) Part of body injured ( to be specified precisely ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . 
7. Degree of Disability 

( ) If fatal , date and time of expiry . . . . . . . . 
( it ) If permanent disablement, specify . . . 

(a ) The part or parts of the body lost, if any 
(b ) The part or parts of body gone out of use . . . 

. Irr . . . 
(C ) Whether disablement, was total or partial 
( 111 ) If temporaiy disablement, state number of days forced to remain idle . 
8 . Responsibility for the Accident . 

(1) Was any safety provi91011 (s ) contravened ? 
(11) If so , by whom ? 
( 111 ) What action was taken against the offender ? 
(20 ) Could the locident have been avoided 
( 0 ) If so, how 


" 


Signature . . . . 
Designation : Owner/ Agent /Manager , 


Date 


. 


. , 


BEC. $(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 15, 1963 /CHAITRA 28, 188% 


75 


FORM IV - C 

( $ &o Regulation 9) 

Particulars of Injured Person returned to duty 
( To be given separately in respect of every person within 15 days of his return to duty ) 
1. General : 

(1) Name of the Mine. . . . .. 
( ii ) Owner . . . . 
( 111) District. . . 

(iv ) State . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
2 . Date of accident . . . . . . . . . 
3 . Name of Injured worker . . . . . . . . . 
4 . Return to Duty : 

( ) Date when returned to work . 
( 11) Whether returned to regular job or some other job (To be specified ) . . . . . . . . . . . . 
3. Compensation : 

State amount of compensation pald or to be paid , if any. . . . . . . 


Signature . . . . . . . . ..... 
Designation : Owner /Agent/Manager . 
Datc . . . 


I IRST SCHEDULE 

FORM V 


( Soe Regulation 10 ) 
Notice of Disease notified under Section 25 


MO 


N 


. . 


. . . 


! 


ΤΟ 


1. The Chief Inspector of Mincs, Dhanbad , E . Rly . 
2. The Regional Inspector of Mines,. . 
3 . The Inspector of Mines (Medical), Dhanbad , E .R . 
4. The District Magistrate/District Collector . .. 


Bl > 


I have to furnish the following particulars with respect to an occupational disease contracted 
by person employed in the. . . . . . . . . . . . mine (also state aamc of mineral produced ) 

. . . . . . . (owner ) . 


01 . + # . 


. 


1. Particulars ofMine, etc. 

Situation of mine : 
Villago . 


760 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1963 /CHAITRA 23 , 1985 


[PART II --S20 , 3(1)] 


. . . . . . . . . . 


Post Oifice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Police Station .. .. .. . . .. .. . 
Sub -Division ( Taluq). .. ... ... ... .. .. 
District . . . 


Stato . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 


(11) Name and Postal Address of Owner . . . . . . . . . . . 


» . Particulars of persons affected : 

O Name ( in Block Capitals ) 
( 11 ) Surname (or religion ) 
( iii) Permanent Address 

Village 
Police Station . .. . . 


Post Office . . . . . . . . . . 


District . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Sub -Division ( Teluq). 


(lv) Sex . . .. . .. .. . . .. .. . .. . . .. 
(u) Date of birth (or age) 
(vi) Occupation .. . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. 
(01 ) How long engaged ? . . . . . . . . 
(vii) Date of commencement of employment: 

(a ) in your mine .. .. . 
(b) in mining . 


3 . Particulars of Discase etc . 

(1) Nature of discise from which the person is suffering (state stage) . .. . . . .. 
(11) Date of detection of disease . .. . .. .. 
( ) Name, registration number and address of Medical Practitioner suspecting disease 


Siyoature . 
D :signation : Owner/Agent/Manager . 
Date . . . 


(No. 1 /51/ 62-MI] 
R , C . SAKSENA , Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1903 


