The Gazette 


of Endia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 40 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1954 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 25th 
September 1954 : 


Issue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


- - - - - 


- - - 


216 S , R , O . 3068 , dated the Election Commis To fill a vacancy in the Council 
21st September , 1954 . sion , India . 

of States in the seats allotted 
to the State of Jammu and 

Kashmir , 
S . R . O . 3069, dated the Ditto . 

Appointment of dates for election 
21st September , 1954 . 

to the Council of States to 
fill a vacancy in the seats al 
lotted to the State of Jammu and 

Kashmir . 
217 | S . R . O . 3070 , dated the Ditto . 

Final List of candidates for 
21st September , 1954 . 

election to the House of the 
People from Midnapore 
Jhargram Parliamentary Con 

stituency , 
218 | S . R . O . 3071, dated the Delimitation Com - Corrigendum to S . R . O . 2937 , 
20th September , 1954 . I mission , India . I dated the 8th September, 

1954 . 
219 S . R . O . 3072 , dated the Ministry of Finance The Central Government re 
22nd September , 1954 . (Revenue Division ) scinds the Notification No. 

33 -Central Excises ( S .R . O . 
2521 ), dated the 30th July , 

1954 . 
220 | S . R . O . 3073, dated the Delimitation Com - | Final Order No. 17 in respect of 
22nd September , 1954 . mission , India . the distribution of scats to , 

and the delimitation of, Par 
liamentary and Assembly Con 
stitucncies in the State of 

Madrag . 
221 S . R . O . 3074 , dated the 

Ditto . 

Proposals in respect of distribution 
23rd September , 1954 . 

of seats allotted to the State of 
Vindhya Pradesh in the Houge 
of the People and the seats assign 
ed to the Legislative Assembly 

of that State . 
222 S . R . O . 3115 , dated the Ministry of Finance Amendment made in the 
23rd September, 1954 . Į (Revenue Division ) notification No. 42 - Customs, 

dated the 9th October, 1948. 
S . R . O . 3116 , dated the 

Ditto . 

Exemption of Battersea clay liners 
23rd September, 1954 . 

from so much of customs duty 
leviable in excess of 361 per 


cent. 


( 2337 ) 


23128 


FBA 1E OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1 


* * mestay 


- 


D * ** 


Issue 
No. 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


223 


S . R . O . 3117, dated the Election Commis 

23rd September, 1954 . sion , India . 


Appointment of Sahibzada Abdur 
Rehman to assist the Returning 
Officer for election to fill a 
vacancy in the Council of 
States in the scats allotted to the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be gubmitted so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of this Gazette . 


PART 11 - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministrles of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1954 
S . R . 0 . 3125, - It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica 
tions under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 ( XLIII of 1951) , incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below , as notified under notification No. PB - P /54 ( 2 ) /BYE , dated the 
23rd August , 1954, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of 
the powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act 
respectively : - - 
Shri Ganga Bishan , Advocate, Sirsa , District Hissar , Punjab . 

[No . PB - P /54 (57/ BYE . ] 

By Order , 
P . N . SHINGHAL , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 22nd September 1954 
S . R . O .3126 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of Rule 8B of 
Order XXVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (Act V 
of 1908 ) the Central Government hereby directs that the following amendment 
shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Law No. S .R . O . 1035 , dated the 2nd June 1953, namely : - - 

In the Schedule to the said notification , for the entries in item 7 the following 
shall be substituted namely : 

“ 7, Punjab 
(i) All Courte 

Government Pleaders . 
(ii) Courts in Simla (other than the 

Shri Shankar Nath , M . A ., L . L . B ., 
High Court) 

Advocate and Notary Public, Rock 
Point, Şimla ." 

[No. F .31 (3 ) / 64 - L .] 


New Delhi, the 24th September 1954 
S . R .O . 3127. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Mainte 
nance Orders Enforcement Act, 1921 (XVIII of 1921 ) , and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Home Department No. 24 / 9 / 37 - Judi. 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2339 


dated the 15th December , 1938 , the Central Government hereby declares that the 
sald Act applies in respect of the Zanzibar protectorate . 

[No, F . 26 ( 16 ) / 54 -L .] 
B . N . LOKUR , Joint Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1954 
S . R . O . 3128 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of sub -section 
( 7) of section 63 of the Andhra State Act, 1953 ( 30 of 1953 ), the President hereby 
directs that the following amendment shall be made in the Order of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs , No, S . R . O . 2278 dated the 9th 
December, 1953, namely : 

In the said Order, before the Explanation , the following proviso shall be inserted , 
namely : 
* Provided that where a transferred officer holds , while serving in connection 

with the affairs of the State of Andhra , a post carrying a scale of pay 
higher than the scale of pay of the post which he would have held 
if he had continued to serve in connection with the affairs of the State 
of Madras, the allowance admissible to him under this Order shall be 
calculated at the rate applicable to him , on the pay which he would 
have drawn if he had continued to serve in connection with the affairs 
of the State of Madras ." 


[ No. 28 / 7 / 53-AIS ( I). ] 
N . N . CHATTERJEE , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


(Department of Economlo Affairs ) 
New Delhi, the 21st September 1954 


S . R . O . 3129, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( X of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommendation 
the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of Clause ( 1 ) 
tion 12 of the said Act shall not apply to the South Indian National Bank , 
velikara , for the period ending with the 31st March 1955 . 

[No. F .4 ( 179 ) - F .1/54 .] 


New Delhi, the 27th September 1954 
S .R . O , 3130 ,--- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Rehabi 
litation Finance Administration Act , 1948 (XII of 1948) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the 
Rehabilitation Finance Administration Rules, 1948, namely : 

In the sald Rules, 
1. For rules 11 , 12 and 13, the following rules shall be substituted, namely : --- 
11. Guarantee of losses to scheduled banks. - A scheduled bank making an 

application to the Administration for assistance under clause ( b ) of 
section 12 , may be required to submit to the Administration the 
latest available balance sheet of the bank and such other information 
regarding the standing and Anancial position of the bank as the 

Administration may ask for , 
12 . Prohibition of guarantee , — The Administration shall not guarantee the 

losses of any scheduled bank , not approved by it . 


2340 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1934 


[ PART II — Suc, 3 


- - 


- 


- 


13. Option to guarantee . - The Administration may in its discretion refuse 

to guarantee any loss under clause (b ) of section 12 , if In Its opinion 
the loan has not been made to a displaced person or has not been 
made for purposes of business or industry or does not conform to the 
other provisions of the Act and these rules. A scheduled bank may, 
before granting a loan , submit full particulars thereof to the Adminis 
tration to ascertain whether the loan will be acceptable for the pur 
poses of clause ( b ) of section 12 . If the Administration approves the 
grant of the loan , it shall be bound , when subsequently called upon 
to do so , to guarantee the loss on the loan , unless the terms on which 
the loan has been granted differ in any material respect from those 

indicated in the reference made to the Administration . 
The total amount which may be guaranteed in respect of any scheduled 

bank and the terms and conditions on which such a guarantee may 
be given shall be subject to the prior approval of the Central Govern 

ment." 
2 . Rule 14 shall be omitted . 
3 . In Rule 16 . 
(1) in clausę A 
( a ) sub -clause (vii) shall be omitted ; and sub - clauses ( vlii) and (1x ) shall 

be renumbered as sub -clauses ( vii) and ( viii ) respectively ; 
(b ) in sub - clause ( vil) as so renumbered , for the brackets, Agures and word 

" ( Ili) to ( vii) " , the brackets , Agures and word " (lll) to ( vi) " shall be 

substituted ; 
( ii) for clause E , the following clause shall be substituted , namely :-- - 
" E . Total Hability of the Administration as at the close of the half- year 
on guarantees under clause ( b ) of section 12 ;" . 

[ No . F . 7 (34)-F . III / 54.] 
N . C . SEN GUPTA , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 2nd October 1954 
SR . 0 .3131. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government herehv 
directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Customs Di 
Drawback (Dry Radio Batteries ) Rules , 1954 , published with the notificar 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance ( Revenue Division 
Customs, dated the 17th July , 1954 , the said amendments having been previou . 
published as required by sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section , namely : 


Amendments 
In the said rules 
( 1) in rule 5 – 
( i) in sub -rule ( 2 ) , for the word " nominate " the words " authorise in this 

behalf" shall be substituted , and for the words " nominated Chief 
Customs Officer " , the words " authorised Chief Customs Officer " shall 

be substituted ; and 
( ii) in sub -rule ( 4 ) , for the words " nominated Chief Customs Officer " , in 

both the places in which they occur, the words " authorised Chief 
Customs Officer " shall be substituted . 


(2 ) in rule 6 
in sub -rule ( 2 ), for the words " nominated Chief Customs Officer" , in both 

the places in which they occur, the words " authorised Chief Customs 
Officer " shall be substituted . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 2341 

- - - -- - 

- - - - - - - 
( 3 ) in rule 7 – 
(i) in sub - clausę ( ii ) of clause ( a ) of sub -rule ( 1 ) , for the words " nominated 

Chief Customs Officer " , the words " authorised Chief Customs Officer" 

shall be substituted ; and 
( ii ) in sub - rule ( 2 ), for the words “ nominated Chief Customs Officer " , the 
words " authoriscd Chief Customs Officer ” shall be substituted . 

[No. 115 .] 


S . R . O . 3132 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that a drawback shall be allowed in accordance with , and subject to the 
provisions of the said section and any rules made thereunder , in respect of duty 
paid foreign materials used in the manufacture of linoleum when such linoleum 
is manufactured in , and exported from , India or shipped as stores on board a 
ship proceeding to a foreign port. 

[No . 118 . ] 
S . R . O , 3133. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
43B on the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules, namely : - 

1. Short title.--- These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
(Linoleum ) Rules, 1954 . 
2 . Definitions . In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) the Act means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) ; 
( b ) section means any section of the Act ; 
( c ) linoleum means floor covering material made by impregnating a 

foundation of hessian canvas with a composition of oxidised oil, 
resins, pigments , Allers , driers, powdered cork or wood flour or any 
combination thereof and includes material ordinarily known under 
the following names, namely plain linoleum , inlaid linoleum , printed 
linoleum , Moire , Jaspe and Marble sheet linoleum , It shall also 
include printed felt base otherwise known as Indoleum i.e ., a floor 
covering consisting of impregnated paper - felt on which the body 

colour and printed pattern has been applied ; 
( d ) imported materials means materials of all kind imported on payment 

of customs duty into India and used in the manufacture of linoleum ; 
( e ) registered manufacturer means a manufacturer of linoleum , who has 

registered himself for the purpose of these rules in accordance with 
the provisions of rule 5 . 


3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid . - Subject to the provisions 
of the Act and these rules , a drawback shall be allowed in the case of linoleum , 
(hereinafter referred to as the goods ) manufactured in , and exported front, India 
or shipped as stores for use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port in respect 
of imported materials used in the manufacture of such goods. 

4 . Perlod for which drawback admissible. - A drawback under these rules 
shall be admissible for the period during which a notification in respect of the 
goods is in force under sub -section ( 1) of section 43B . 

5 . Registration of manufacturers, — ( 1 ) A drawback permissible under these 
rules shall apply in respect of such goods as have been manufactured by a person 
who has , in accordance with the provisions of these rules , registered himsell 
for such purpose . 

( 2 ) An application for registration shall be made by the manufacturer of the 
goods to the Chief Customs Authority who may authorise any Chief Customs 
Oficer, (hereinafter referred to as " the authorised Chief Customs Officer" ) to act 
on Its behalf in this respect . 

( 3 ) Such application shall describe the varieties, brands, if any , and other 
specifications of the goods in respect of which registration is desired and shall, 
in respect of each of such variety or brand, furnish :-- 
( a ) the description and quantity of different materials used in the manu 

facture of one hundred years of the goods, 


2342 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1964 


[PART II — Sec . 3 


( b ) the average amount of customs duty , based on the values and the 

amounts of duty on importation during the preceding year of such of 
these materials as are imported and are not duty -free , on the 
quantities referred to in the foregoing sub - clause . 


( 4 ) The authorised Chief Customs Officer may register the applicant as a 
manufacturer for the purpose of these rules, subject to the applicant executing 
a bond for Rs. 1 ,000 or such increased amount not exceeding Rs. 10 , 000 as may 
be fixed undertaking not to vary the composition or formula for any brand or 
variety of the goods, or the quantity of different imported materials used in the 
manufacture, without the prior permission of the authorised Chief Customs 
Ofcer . 


( 5 ) Any manufacturer found varying the formula or composition of the goods 
contrary to the undertaking furnished as contemplated in sub - rule ( 4 ) shall be 
liable to have his registration cancelled besides any other penalties to which he 
may be liable under the Act. 

6 . Late of drawback .- ( 1 ) The rate of drawback of duty admissible under 
these rules on the shipment of the goods in the prescribed manner shall be 7 / 8th 
of the average amount of customs duty paid on materials used in the manufacture 
of goods, and this shall be determined every 3 months on the basis of statements 
furnished by the registered manufacturer and verified by the authorised Chief 
Customs Officer , of the average value and duty paid on the imported materials 
used in the manufacture of goods, imported during the preceding year or any 
longer period in respect of any or all of the materials , as the authorised Chief 
Customs Officer may deem convenient. 

( 2 ) The drawback so calculated shall be in force for a period of 3 calendar 
months beginning with the Arst of the month succeeding that in which it 18 
determined and shall apply to shipments made during that period from any 
port in India . 

7. Manner of allowing drawback . - ( 1 ) Drawback shall be allowed on the 
shipment of the goods from any port in India subject to the following conditions : 
namely , 

( a ) the shipper of the goods will make a declaration on the relative shipping 
bill : 

( i) that a claim for drawback under section 43B is being made, and 
( ii) that to the best of his knowledge and belief, the composition of the 

goods and the proportion of the different imported duty -paid 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods have not been altered 
subsequent to the registration of the manufacturer save with the 

prior permission of the authorised Chief Customs Officer . 
( b ) The shipper shall in the shipping bill, furnish , in addition to information 
required under section 29 such additional Information as may , in the opinion of 
the Customs Collector, be necessary for the purpose of verification of the claim 
for drawback , and in particular the Customs Collector may require such additional 
information in respect of the following matters, namely : 

(1) the description of the goods, 
( ii ) the name of the manufacturer, the registration number of the manu 

facturer and the authority or officer with whom he got himself 

registered , 
( iii) the particulars of any brand or trade mark attached to the goods. 

( iv ) length , width , weight and like particulars in respect of the goods, 

( 2 ) No drawback shall be allowed on the shipment of goods in respect of 
which the composition or formula has been varied contrary to the undertaking 
mentioned in sub - rule (4 ) of rule 6 . 


8. Powers of Customs Collector. For the purposes of enforcing these rules , the 
Customs may require : - - 
( a ) a registered manutacturer to produce any books of accounts or other 

documents of whatever nature relating to the proportion and quantity 
of different materials used in the manufacture and the value and 
duty paid on imported materials used in the manufacture ; 


- 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 2343 

- - 
( b ) any person who has been concerned at any state with the goods to 

produce any books of accounts or other documents of whatever 

nature relating to the goods ; and 
( c ) the production of such certificates, documents and other evidence in 

respect of each claim for drawback as may be necessary . 
9 . Access to Manufactory . A registered manufacturer of goods in respect of 
which a drawback is claimed Shall give access to every part of his manufactory 
to any Omcer of the Central Government specially authorised in this behalf by 
the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority to enable the officer 
so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by actual 
check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for drawback . 

[No. 117. ] 
JASJIT SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 22nd September 1954 
S . R . O . 3134 . - 12 exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( II of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
meat hereby remits the whole of the stamp duty chargeable under the said Act 
on the instrument of lease to be executed in favour of the Swedish Legation in 
India in respect of a plot of land measuring 9 . 846 acres in Chanakya Puri, 
(Diplomatic Enclave ) , New Delhi. 


[No. 18. ] 
M . G . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

CUSTOMS 
New Delhi, the 22nd September 1954 


S . R . O . 3185 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 ( XIX of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs 
that the following further amendment shall be made in Its Notification No. 21 
Customs, dated 2nd February 1952 , namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , under the heading “ DIU 
FRONTIER " , the entries in columns 1 and 2 against items Nog . 2 and 3 shall be 
omitted . 

[ No. 112. ] 
W . SALDANHA , Secy . 


- 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

( Agriculture ) 
New Delhi, the 22nd September 1954 


S . R . O . 3136. - In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( S ) of Section 4 of the 
Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Act , 1948, ( IX of 1946 ) the Central Govern 
ment is pleased to notify the appointment of Shri Villuri Venkataramana, Member, 
Rajya Sabha, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee vice Shri R . S . 
Doogar . 

[ No . F .5 -69 /54 - Com - I.] 
F . C . GERA, Under Secy . 


2344 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 [PART II - Sec. 3 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

= 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 22nd September -1954 
S . R . O . 3137. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 , of the Constitution , the President, after consulta 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in 
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby , makes the following amend 
ment in the Contributory Health Service Scheme Rules , 1954 , published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health S . R .O . No . 2128 , 
dated the 23rd June 1954 , namely : 

In sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 1 of the said Rules, clause ( c ) shall be omitted , and 
clauses ( d ) and ( e ) shall be relettered as clauses ( c ) and ( d ) respectively . 

2 . This amendment shall take effect from the 1st October 1954 . 


[No, F .6 ( 1) -30 / 54 -Hosp .] 
N . B . CHATTERJI, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 


New Delhi, the 22nd September 1954 
S . R . O . 3138 . - 12 pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of Article 239 of the Constitution of 
India , the President 18 pleased to direct that the Chief Commissioner of Kutch 
shall, subject to the control of the President, and until further orders , exercise 
powers and discharge the functions of a State Government under the provisions 
of the Road Transport Corporations Act , 1950 (LXIV of 1950 ) in the State of 
Kutch . 

[ No . 33- T ( 20 ) /51.) 

R . S . BAHL , Under Secy . 
- - 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 22nd September 1954 
S . A . O . 3139. - - In this Ministry s notification No. S . R . O . 2767 , dated the 17th 
August 1954 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 , dated the 28th 
August 1954 , in part (b ) for the word " OR " read " OF ” , 

[No. 5 / 8 / 54 - FC .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1954 
S .R .O . 3140 . — The Central Government hereby - - 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provision of clause ( 2 ) of the Order of the 

Government of India in the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting 
No. S . R . O . 781, dated the 1st March 1954 and in further modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No. 782 dated the 1st March 1954 , that the 
Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay shall 

consist of 32 members with effect from the 2nd October 1954 . 
(b ) appoints , after consultation with the said Board , Rev . H , O . Mascarenhas, 

Sri G . L . Chandavarkar , Srimati Guli H . Kirpalani, Major General 
M . G . Bhandari, Sri Munshi Mihar Mohamed Khan Fazal Mohamed 
Khan , Sri P . O . Upadhyaya , Sri P . V . Gadgil and Sri B . R . Dhurandhar 
as members of the Advisory Panel at Bombay with effect from the 
2nd October 1954. 

[No. 14 /3 /54 -FC .) 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy. 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 

2345 
_ - - - - - - 

MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1954 
S . R . O . 3141. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (6 ) of 
sertion 59 of the Damodar Valley Corporation Act, 1948 (XIV of 1948 ), the 
Central Government hereby rescinds the Damodar Valley Corporation ( Advisory 
Committee ) Rules , 1949, published with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Works, Mines and Power , No DW 10 / 110 / 49, dated 
the 23rd May, 1949. 

[No. 40 (27 ) DVC / 54 .1 
R . R . BAHL , Dy, Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1954 
S . R . O . 3142. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
17 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act , 1952 (XXX 
of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by 
it under sections 7 and 8 of the said Act shall be exercisable also by the Chief 
Commissioners of the States of Ajmer , Bhopal, Coorg and Kutch and by the Chief 
Secretaries to the Governments of the States of Himachal Pradesh and Vindhya 
Pradesh in respect of property situated within the State concerned . 

[No. 8064 -EII / 54 . ] 
K . K . SHARMA , Dy . Secy . 


(Central Boilers Board ) 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1954 
S . R . O . 3143. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950 , which the Central Boilers Board proposes to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 ( V of 1923 ) , 
is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 31 of the said Act, for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th 
December 1954 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Bollers Board . Such objections or suggestions should be addressed to the Secre 
tary , Central Boilers Board , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , North Block , 
New Delhi, 


Draft Amendment 
In clausc ( c ) of Regulation 49, and in clause ( c ) of Regulation 54 of the said 
Regulations, for the expression “ Thinner than 9 S . W .G . upto and including 6 
S . W .G ." the expression " Thicker than 10 S . W .G . and upto and including 6 S . W . G ." 
shall be substituted . 

[No. BL - 304 ( 10 ) / 54. ] 

M . N . KALE , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

( Railway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1954 
S . R . O . 3144. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act , 1890 ( IX of 1890 ) read with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry , No. 801 , dated the 24th 
March 1905 , the Railway Board hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shaH be made in the General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India 


2346 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1964 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


published with the notification of the Government of India in the late Railway 
Department (Railway Board ) , No. 1078 - T , dated the 9th March 1929 , namely : 

In the Schedule appended to Part III of the said rules , against serial No . 58 , 
for the entries in columns 2 and 3 , the following entries shall be substituted 
namely : 


3 


In casks, cases, sacks or druma, 


rro - Silicon 

per cent and above. 
Ferro - Silicon . 
Less than 15 per cent , 


80 per cent and over in fine 

powder in casks or drums. 


[No. 1400 - TG . ] 
RANJIT SINGH , Director . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 23rd September 1954 
S . R . O 3145. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
and Minerals ( Regulation and Development) Act , 1948 (LIII of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made 
in the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, namely : 
In clause 8 of Schedule II to the said Rules, after the word “ Gypsum " 
the word " limestone" shall be inserted . 

[ No, MII-152 ( 48 ) /54.] 
M , MALHOTRA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1954 
S . R . O 3146 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Coal 
Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act , 1952 (XII of 1952) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following rules , the game having been previously published 
as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , namely : 
COAL MINES CONSERVATION AND SAFETY RULES 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 
Short title and extent. — (1 ) These rules may be called the Coal Mines (Con 
servation and Safety ) Rules , 1954 . 

( 2 ) They extend to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 
Definitions. In these Rules , unless the context requires otherwise , 
(a ) " Act " means the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 

(XII of 1952 ) ; 


(b ) " Central Government" includes in relation to functions delegated under 

sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 of the Act to the Board , the Board actin . 

within the scope of the authority given to it under that sub - section ; 
( c ) " Chairman " means the Chairman of the Board ; 
(a ) " Member " meang a member of the Board appointed under Section 4 

of the Act ; 
(e ) "Month ” means a month reckoned according to the British Calendar; 
(1) " Section " means a section of the Act; 
( 8 ) " Treasury" means any Government Treasury or sub- treasury . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2347 


CHAPTER II 

THE BOARD AND ITS PROCEDURE 
3 . Time and place of meetings . - ( 1) The Chairman may at any time call a 
meeting of the Board and shall do so it a requisition for that purposes is presented 
to him by three or more members. 

( 2 ) The meetings of the Board shall, unless the Chairman in any case other 
wise directs, be held in Calcutta , 

4 . Notice of meetings. - As far as possible notices of the time and place of 
any intended meeting of the Board signed by the Chairman or the Secretary 
shall be delivered at or posted to the usual place of residence of every member 
present in India not less than seven clear days before the date of the meeting , 
Provided that an emergent meeting may be called by the Chairman at any time. 

5 . Presiding at meetings. The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of 
the Board at which he is present. If the Chairman is absent from a meeting and 
it is not expedient to adjourn the meeting the members present shall elect one 
of their member to preside over the meeting and the member 60 elected shall 
at that meeting exercise all the powers of the Chairman . 

6 . Quorum . - No business shall be transacted at a meeting of the Board unless 
at least threc members including the Chairman are present: 

Provided that if at any meeting less than three members including the 
Chairman are present, the Chairman may adjourn the meeting to a date not 
less than seven days later and inform the members present and notify other 
members that he proposes to dispose of the business at the adjourned meeting 
irrespective of there being a quorum , and it shall thereupon be lawful to dispose 
of the business at such adjourned meeting irrespective of the number attending , 

7 . Disposal of business. - ( 1 ) Every question upon which the Board is required 
to deliberate shall be considered either at its meetings or, if the Chairman so 
directs , by sending the necessary papers to members for opinion ; 

Provided that the papers need not be sent to any member who is abgent 
from India . 

( 2 ) When a question is referred for opinion , any member may request that 
the question be considered at a meeting of the Board , and thereupon the Chairman 
may, and if the request is made by three or more members shall direct that it 
be so considered . 

8 . List of business ( 1 ) The Chairman shall send or cause to be sent to each 
member present in India , along with the notice of the meeting or as soon as 
possible thereafter , a list of business to be disposed of at that meeting. 

( 2 ) No business which is not on the list shall be considered at a meeting 
without the permission of the Chairman . 

9 . Decision by majority . - ( 1 ) Every question at a meeting of the Board shall 
be decided by a majority of votes of the members present and voting on that 
question , 

( 2 ) Every question referred to the members for opinion shall, unless the 
Chairman reserves it for consideration at a meeting be decided in accordance with 
the opinion of the majority recording opinions, 

( 3 ) In the case of an equal division of votes the Chairman shall exercise an 
additional vote and in the case of an equal division of opinion , the opinion of 
the Chairman shall prevail, 

10 , Record of business. - A record shall be maintained of all business trans 
aclea by the Board , copies of which shall be submitted to the Central Government. 

11. Revision ( 1 ) The Central Government may for reasons to be recorded 
in writing review any decision of the Board and pass such orders in the matter 
as it thinks fit. 


( 2 ) Tht Board shall give effect to all orders passed by the Central Govern 
ment under sub - rule ( 1 ) . 

12 . Salary and allowances of the Chairman ( 1 ) The Chairman shall be paid 
such salary and allowances from the Fund as the Central Government may from 
time to time fix 


2348 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[PART II - Sec . 3 


( 2 ) The Chairman shall algo be paid from the Fund travelling allowances 
for journeys performed by him in his official capaciy, at the same rates and 
on the same conditions as are prescribed by rules in the case of officers in the 
employ of the Central Government drawing the same salary as the Chairman . 

( 3 ) When the Chairman is in the permanent service of the Government con 
tributions on account of the Chairinan s pension , Provident Fund , leave salary 
and passages shall be paid from the Fund at such rates as may be (lxed by the 
Central Government. 

(4 ) Save and except as permitted by the Central Government the Chairman 
shall nou engage in any trade or profession or undertake any employment or 
duties other than his duties under the Board . 

( 5 ) In any case not provided for in sub -rule ( 3 ) , the Central Government 
may grant to the Chairman leave on like terms and conditions as are prescribed 
by the Central Government. Leave salary payable in respect of such leave itay 
be paid from the Fund . 


13. Powers and duties of the Chairman , - ( 1 ) The Chairman shall be respon 
sible for the proper functioning of the Board and the implementation of its 
decisions and the discharge of its duties under the Act and he may in hla 
discretion refcr any matter to the Central Government for orders. 

(2 ) Subject to the control of the Chairman the Secretary or such other officer 
as may be appointed for the purpose of this rule , shall be the Principal Executive 
Oncer of the Board and , as such , he shall 
( a ) present all important papers and matters to the Board as early as 

practicable ; 
( b ) Issue , directions as to the method of carrying out the decisions of the 

Board ; 
( c ) grant or subject to a resolution by the Board authorise some other 

person to grant, receipts on behalf of the Board for all moneys 

received under the Act ; 
( d ) maintain or cause to be maintained an account of the receipts and 

expenditure of the Board ; and 
( e ) present an annual draft report on the working of the Board to the 

Board for approval and submit the report in the form approved by 

the Board to the Central Government. 
( 3 ) The Chairman may sanction expenditure on contingencies supplies and 
services and purchase of articles required for the working of the ofice of the 
Board and required for the execution of measures in furtherance of the objects 
of the act subject to budget provisions to the condition that the expenditure on 
any single object or item of work does not cxceed Rs. 1 ,000 : 


Provided that the Chairman may in writing delegate such of his powers 
under this sub - rule to the Secretary or other officer of the Board as he considers 
appropriate . 


14. Secretary to the Board ( 1 ) The Secretary to the Board shall be a person 
appointed by Central Government in consultation with the Board and his remu 
neration and terms of service shall be as laid down by the Central Government. 


( 2 ) The Secretary shall perform such duties as are imposed upon him by these 
rules and such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board or by the 
Chairman , 


15 . Board s establishment. - ( 1 ) ( a ) The Board shall, from time to time appoint 
such other establishment and fix the salaries and allowances of all officers and 
servants to be employed by it , and may require security to be taken from such 
of them and to such amount as it thinks At; the scaleg of pay allowed by the 
Board for the staff shall, as far as possible , correspond to the scales applicable 
to similar posts under the Government of India : 


Provided that no post the maximum salary of which exceeds rupees Ave 
hundred per mensem shall be created without the previous sanction of the Central 
Government, 


PAAT 11-- SC 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTÓ 


, 


Eng 


TL 


(b ) The posts of officers of the Board shall be divided into two classes corres 
ponding to class I and II posts of Gazetted officers of the Central Government. 

(2 ) ( a ) All vacancies for direct recruitment of officers and staff of the Board 
shall be advertised in the principal newspapers in India and simultaneously noti 
fied to the Regional Employment Exchange at Calcutta . 

(b ) A statement of all applications received from candidates and recommenda 
tions from the Employment Exchange shall be placed before a Selection Committee 
appointed by the Board . The Selection Committee shall recommend to the 
Chairman candidates suitable for the appointment in order of merit after exa 
mwing the applications and interviewing or testing the candidates . 

Provided that the Board shall act as the Selection Committee in respect of 
appointments to the posts of officers , 

( c ) it a vacancy in the Board s establishment is to be Allled up by promotion , 
the cases of all the candidates for promotion shall be examined by a Promotion 
Committee set up by the Board and the recommendations of the Committee shall 
be placed before the authority competent to make the appointment: 

Provided that for appointments to the posts of officers the Board shall perform 
the functions of the Promotion Committee. 

( 3 ) Subject to the scale of establishment fixed under sub -rule ( 1 ) and subject 
to the provisions of sub - rule (2 ) the Chairman shall have power to appoint, dla 
miss, suspend , reduce or grant leave to any person in the service of the Board : 
Provided that , 
(1 ) no person shall be appointed to , or dismissed from , an office the maxi 

mum salary of which exceeds rupees five hundred without the 

sanction of the Central Government; 
1ii) no person shall be appointed to , or dismissed from , an office the maxi 

mum salary of which exceeds rupees two hundred and Afty but does 
not exceed rupees Ave hundred without the sanction of the Board at 

a meeting ; 
( ill ) the grant of leave, pay and allowances to officers and servants of the 

Board , who are not Government servants , shall be regulated by rules 

made by the Board ; and 
( iv ) the grant of leave, pay and allowances to a Government servant, whose 

services have been lent or transferred to the Board shall be regulated 
according to the appropriate rules framed by the Central Govern 

ment and applicable to such Government servant. 
( 4 ) In exercising the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) the Board 
shall apply the principles of the rules, framed by the Central Government for the 
corresponding classes of Government servants . 

( 6 ) Save with the previous sanction of the Central Government, no travelling 
allowance shall be paid to any officer or servant of the Board in excess of the 
amount which would be admissible under the Supplementary Rules framed by 
the Central Government to a Government servant of the corresponding grade. 

18. Allowances of members , — ( 1 ) A Government servant appointed as a mem 
ber shall be paid for attending a meeting of the Board such travelling allowance 
from the Fund as would be admissible to him under the appropriate rules if the 
journey had been performed on Government duty . 

( 2 ) A member performing a journey on the business of the Board with the 
approval of the Chairman shall be paid from the Fund , such travelling allowance 
as would be admissible to him under the appropriate rules if the journey had 
been performed on Government duty . 


CHAPTER III 

COMMITTEES OF ENQUIRY 
17. ( 1 ) The Central Government may appoint a Committee of Enquiry to 
inquire into a reference arising out of an order under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
13 and such Committee shall consist of 

( a ) the Chairman or a member of the Board as Chairman ; 


2350 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


( b ) (1 ) a person holding a first class colllery manager s certifcate of 

competency nominated by the Chairman and qualified by experience 

to dispose of the question referred to the Committee ; 
(i ) a person who shall be appointed to represent the interest pf persons 

employed in the mine. 
(2 ) No person shall be appointed to the Committee who is an officer of the 
Board or of the Department of Mines. 

18 . ( 1 ) The Committee shall hear and record such information as the Board 
Or the owner , agent or manager of the coal mine concerned may place before it ; 
and may also obtain the opinion of such other person as it may deem appropriate . 

( 2 ) The Committee shall report its indings to the Central Government. 

( 3) On receiving such report the Central Government may pass such orders 
as it deems appropriate . 

(4 ) The decision of the Central Government shall be binding on the Board 
and the owner , agent or manager of the coal mine. 

19 . The Members of a Committee of Enquiry shall be paid from the fund 
such remuneration , in addition to their actual travelling expenses in connection 
with the work of the Committees , as the Central Government may flx . 

CHAPTER IV 

ADVISORY COMMITTEES 
[ Constituted by the Central Government under Section 15 ( 1) of the Act ] 

20 . Technical Advisory Committee (Mining ) .. - ( 1 ) The Technical Advisory 
Committee (Mining ) shall be composed of the following members : 
( a ) a technically qualified member of the Board or a person nominated by 

the Board - Chairman ; 
(b ) the Chief Inspector of Mines or an Inspector nominated by him ; 
( c ) the Mining Adviser , Government Railways or a person , in the service 

of Government having suitable mining qualifications nominated by 

the Board ; 
( d ) Director of Geological Survey of India or his nominee . 
( e ) such representatives of the mining or labour Interests concerned as the 

Commiftee or the Board may deem necessary and appropriate to 

co -opt for its deliberations; 
An Inspecting Officer of the Board will act ag Secretary to the Committe, 

(2 ) The Committee will advise the Board in matter arising out of conserva 
tion of coking coal and certain aspects of gtowing and the terms of reference tc 
the Committee shall be as follows: 
( a ) to recommend raising quotas in each colliery working Selected A , 

Selected B Grade I and Grade II coking coal and such other coal , 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time, consistent with 
safety and future extraction without undue loss of coal and undue 

increase in cost; 
( b ) to examine the economics of restrictions of output of coking coal and 

the effect of such restriction on the cost of production of the colliery . 
( c ) to examine or assess the necessity of and to advise on mining in the 

colliery, in which restriction of output is recommended , of other seams 
having coking coal or coal which on benefication is likely to yield 
roking coal or coal suitable for blending or coal of any other variety , 

Including non -coking coal; 
( d ) to advise on the necessity and extent of stowing for safety or conserva 

tion of coal ; 
( e ) to examine or assess the necessity of Installation of benefication plant 

at colliertes where such benefication is likely to yleld economically 

coking coal or coal suitable for blending; 
( 1 ) to advise on other allied or incidental matters which may be specifically 

referred to the Committee by the Board . 
( 9) The Committee may consult or obtain information from such persons as 
it deems appropriate . 


. 


L 


* 8] 


THE GAZITIE OF INDU 


E 


21. Advisory Committee on Stowing .- ( 1) The Advisory Committee on stowing 
shall be constituted as follows: 

( a ) a member of the Board nominated by the Board - Chairman ; 
( b ) the Chief Inspector of Mines in India or his nominee ; 
(c ) the Director, Fuel Research Institute or his nominee ; 
( d ) two representatives to be nominated by the Indian Mining Association 

and one representative each by the Indian Mining Federation and 

Indian Collſery Owners Association . 
An officer of the Coal Board shall be nominated as Secretary of the Committee 
by the Chairman , 

( 2 ) Each nominated member may be assisted by one adviser to be nominated 
by the respective associations, who shall possess a first class colliery manager s 
certificate of competency and have knowledge of stowing. 

( 3 ) A nominated member shall hold office for a period of one year and shall 
be eligible for re-nomination . 

( 4 ) A nominated member may resign his office by letter addressed to the 
Chairman of the Board . 

( 8 ) Not later than 15 days after the occurrence of a vacancy in the case of a 
nominated member or at any time within one month of the date when a vacancy 
will occur in the ordinary course of events the body concerned shall on receipt 
of advice from the Board communicate to the Chairman a nomination to All the 
vacancy and the nomination shall be effective when accepted by the Central 
Government. 

( 8 ) The Committee shall advise the Board on such matters, relating to stow 
ing for safety and conservation in coal mines and the grant of Assistance for 
stowing in coal mines , as may be referred to it by the Board. 

22. The Research Advisory Commitee. - ( 1 ) The Research Advisory Committee 
shall be composed of the following members : 

( a ) a member of the Board nominated by the Board - Chairman . 
( b ) the Chief Inspector of Mines in India ; 
( c ) the Director, Fuel Research Institute ; 
( a ) the Principal, Indian School of Mines and Applied Geology : 
( e ) the Principal, College of Mining and Metallurgy, Ben - r ~ Hindu Uni 

vergity . 
( 1 ) two Mining Engineers having special knowledge of stowing and regearch 

connected therewith to be nominated by the Board . 
An officer of the Board shall be nominated as Secretary to the Committee. 

( 2 ) The members of the Committee except the Chairman , the Chief inspertor 
of Mines in India , the Director, Fuel Research Institute and the Principal, Indian 
School of Mines and Applied Geology shall hold office for a period of 3 years but 
shall be eligible for re - appointment. 

( 3 ) The Committee shall advise the Board regarding the nature and extent of 
research to be undertaken by the Board , the problems to be investigated , the 
schemes of research to be assisted by the Board and also examine periodically the 
reports submitted by the Investigating Officer 

( 4 ) The Committee shall publish halt -yearly reports showing the research 
work done by it and the use to which such research work has been put by the 
collleries . 

23 . General ( 1 ) Each non -official member including a co - opted member of an 
Advisory Committee shall be paid for attending a meeting of the Committee 
such remuneration as may be fixed by the Central Government and the actual 
travelling expenses incurred by him in attending a meeting or for any other pur 
pose in connection with the business of the Committee . 

( 2 ) Each Government servant appointed or co -opted as a member of a Com 
mittee shall be paid for Journeys connected with the business of the Committee 
such travelling allowance from the funds of the Board as may be admissible to 
him under the appropriate rules of the journey had been performed on Govern 
ment duty . 


2352 


YEAHOL OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[ PAAT IY 073 


( 3 ) Travelling allowance and remuneration at such scales ag may be fixed 
by the Board with the approval of the Central Government may also be paid to 
such other persons as with the approval of the Board are required to assist or 
advise the Board or any of the Advisory Committees . 

( 4 ) The Chairman of the Board may issue instructions regarding the conduct 
of the business of the Committees , maintaining records of the proceedings of the 
Committees and such other matters as he may deem appropriate . 

( 5 ) All proceedings of meetings of the Advisory Committees and all recom 
mendations of the Committees shall be placed before the Board , 


CHAPTER V 


LEVY AND COLLECTION OF EXCISE DUTY 
24 . Recovery of excise duty -- ( 1) The duties of excise imposed under section 8 
on coal and coke shall be recovered : 

(1 ) When such coal or coke ls despatched by rail from collierles by the Rall 
way administrations concerned , by means of surcharge on freight: 
( a ) from the consignor, if the freight charges are being prepaid at the 

forwarding station , 
(b ) from the consignee , if the freight charges are collected at the destina 

tion of the consignment, 
( c ) from the party paying the freight, if the consignment is booked on 

the weight only ” system : 
Provided that in all cases where coal or coke is despatched by rail from 
collleries to any station outside India , the duty of excise shall be recovered from 
the consignor at the forwarding station . 

(11 ) When such coal or coke is despatched from collleries by means other 
than rail namely , by road , river and tramway from the owner of the colliery 
concerned and collected in the manner provided in rules 29 to 31 . 

( 2 ) In calculating the amount of duty of excise payable on any one consign 
ment any fractions of an anna shall be rounded off to the nearest anna . 

25. Declaration by consignor.- - All consignments of coke from colleries ten 
dered for despatch by rail, shall be accompanied by a declaration advice note in 
which the consignor or his agent shall describe the consignment as elther " soft 
coke" or " hard coke" , according to the nature of the consignment. 

28 , Weight for charge . For the purpose of the levy of the excise duties , the 
actual weight of a consignment rounded off to the nearset ton shall be taken into 
account. 

27. Remittance of excise duty . The total amount of excise duty collected by 
each Railway administration les8-- - 
( a ) refunds and the amounts written off authorised by the Railway ad 

ministration under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 28 . 
(b ) a deduction of such percentage , as the Central Government may, by 

notification in the official Gazette , fix towards the cost of collection . 
shall under advice to the Accountant General, West Bengal and the Chairman , 
Coal Board be remitted quarterly to the Reserve Bank of India at Calcutta for 
the credit of the Central Government in a special account. 

28 . Refunds and Recoveries ( 1 ) Where the amount of the excise duty due 
under these rules has not been collected either wholly or in part or where the 
amount collected is in excess of the amount due, the Railway administration 
shall deal with the undercharge or overcharge , as the case may be, on the same 
principles as apply to undercharges and overcharges in regard to Railway 
freight charges 

( 2 ) When it is proved to the satisfaction of the Board or any person authorised 
in this behalf by the Board , that any coal, on which the duty of excise under 
clause ( a ) sub - section ( 1 ) of section 8 had previously been collected , has been 
used in the manufacture of any coke on which also the duty has been collected , 
the Board or the person authorised in this behalf by the Board may order refund 
of an amount equal to the duty collected on such coal to the person from whom 
such duty was collected . 


PAXT II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2353 


( 3 ) A similar refund on the conditions mentioned in gub -rule ( 2 ) may be 
allowed in respect of the duty of excise collected on raw coal during its transport 
to a washery in cases where duty of excise is again collected on the washed 
goal despatched from the washery to the conguming centres : 
Provided that , 
( 1) no claim for such refund shall be entertained unless it is preferred 

within one year from the end of the quarter to which the claim 

relates ; and 
Gli) refunds under this sub -rule shall be allowed after deductions of such 

percentage as the Central Government may by general or special order 

Ax as the cost of calculation of such duty . 
( 4 ) When it is proved to the satisfaction of the Board or any person authorised 
to this behalt by the Board that coking coal in respect of which an additional 
duty of excise has been levied and collected under clause (b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 8 is despatched to any person for use in India and 
( a ) the use of coking coal is , in the opinion of the Central Government 

or if the power is delegated to the Board in the opinion of the Board 
essential for carrying on any industrial or other process in which 

such person is engaged ; or 
( b ) the despatch of the coking coal is made under orders of the Board , 

although it was not specifically indented for by such persons: 
the Board may order the payment to that person of a sum equivalent to the 
additional duty of oxcise collected on the coking coal received and used. 

(5 ) The Board may detormine the procedure for submission of claims for 
rofund of excise duty under sub - rules ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . 

29. Collection and assessment of excise duty on coal / or coke despatched by 
means other than rall, namely , road , river and tramway, etc . - ( 1 ) Every owner, 
Agent or manager of a colliery shall maintain a register in such form as may 
be determined by the Board showing quantities of coal, soft coke or hard coke 
despatched during a month by means other than rail. The amount of excise duty 
payable during a month at the rates prescribed under section 8 shall be calculated 
and recorded by the owner in the register itself. 


( 2 ) Every owner shall be deemed to have been provisionally assessed to ani 
amount calculated and recorded under sub - rule ( 1 ) as payable during a month 
and he shall pay the same into the treasury , the remittance being creditable to 
the Central Government in a special account. The payment shall be made on 
or before the last day of the month following the month for which payment is 
due. 

( 3 ) The payment under sub - rule ( 2 ) shall be made by means of a challan , 
The treasury shall return two copies of the challan to the depositor who shall 
Ieep one copy for himself and transmit the other copy under sub - rule ( 4 ) to the 
Chairman , 

( 4 ) Every owner of a colliery shall submit to the Chairman such monthly 
return as may be prescribed by the Board showing quantities of coal, soft coke 
or hard coke despatched during a month by means other than rall, the amount paid 
under sub - rule ( 2 ) and other particulars. The return shall be supported by a 
copy of the challan returned under sub -rule ( 3 ) by the treasury . The Board 
may determine the manner in which such monthly return shall be submitted . 


( 6 ) The return under sub - rule ( 4 ) shall be submitted so as to reach the 
Chairman on or before the last day of the month following the month for which 
it is due. 


(0 ) ( a ) The final assessment of the excise duty due from a colliery under 
clause ( u ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 24 shall be made by the Chairman after 
examination of the said return and / or other relevant documents if any, as may 
be available . For the purpose of Anal assessment under this sub - rule the Chair 
man may depute a duly authorised officer to inspect and examine the account 
books and other records maintained at the premises of the colliery or may re 
quire by notice in the form and manner prescribed by the Board , the owner 40 
produce either personally or by his authorised representative the said records 
before the authorised officer at the time and place (with the District in which 
the colllery is situated ) specified in the notice. The officer deputed by the 
Chairman shall be afforded all the necessary facilities at the premises of the 
colllery for the purpose of inspection and examination under this sub -rule . "" 


2354 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1984 


[PART II - SEC . 8 


( b ) if the owner has paid under sub - rule ( 2 ) and has submitted retum 
under sub - rule (4 ) the Chairman shall either confirm that the amount of duty 
provisionally assessed under sub - rule (2 ) is Almal and send an intimation to that 
effect to the owner concerned or where necessary shall assess the additional amount 
and issue a notice in the form prescribed by the Board calling upon the owner 
to pay into the treasury by a specified date the further amount in the manner 
provided in sub - rule ( 3 ) . 


( c ) If the owner has not made any payment under sub -rule ( 2 ) and has 
tiot submitted a return under sub - rule ( 4 ) the Chairman shall, After giving the 
owner a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the manner determined by 
the Board assess him to such an amount of excise duty as in his opinion lg 
fit and proper and issue a notice in the form determined by the Board calling 
upon him to pay the full amount into the treasury by a specifed date in the 
manner provided in gub - rule ( 3 ) . 


30. Recovory of unpaid exciso duty . - ( 1 ) Any dues of excise duty remaining 
unpaid after the date specified by the Chairman shall be recovered from the 
owner as an arrear of land revenue and shall be credited to the Central Govern 
ment. 


( 2 ) The Chairman shall apply to the Collector of the District in which the 
colliery is situated for the recovery of the amount of excise duty remaining 
unpaid , 


( 3 ) The Collector shall by the 10th of each month send monthly reports to 
the Chairman showing the amount recovered and deposited in the treasury . 


31. Review of assessment of excise duty . - ( 1) Any owner may submit an 
application to the Chairman , for a review of an order of Assessment under clause 
( b ) and clause ( c ) of sub - rule (6 ) of rule 29 of excise duty within 30 days of 
receipt of notice of such assessment 


Provided that no such application shall be entertained unless the amount 
486essed has already been paid in the manner provided in sub - rule ( 3 ) . 


( 2 ) If It is proved to the satisfaction of the Chairman that the excise duty 
assessed and paid by any owner is in excess of the amount due , he shall order 
the refund to the owner of such amount as may have been paid in excess . 


( 3 ) If , on the other hand , the Chairman is satisfied after examination of 
the records in his office and after hearing the owner that the assessment has 
been made correctly he shall confirm his order of assessment and the order of the 
Chairman shall be final. 


32. Determination of the not proceeds of the duty of excise ( 1 ) For the pur 
pose of section 11, the net proceeds of the duty of excise realised under section 8 
In a Anancial year shall be determined separately in respect of each Rallway 
administration collecting such duty and certified as soon as possible after the 
close of the inancial year by such officers as the Central Government may 
appoint in this behalf . 


(2 ) In determining the net proceeds under aub - rule ( 1 ) the officerg shall 
take into account the total amount of the duty collected , the refunds granted 
And the amounts written off sanctioned by the Railway administration during 
the year , and the deduction towards the cost of collection Azed by the Central 
Government in accordance with these rules . 


( 3 ) The proceeds of excise duty collected in a financial year on coal, sort 
coke or hard coke despatched by means other than rail shall be determined 
and certified as soon as possible after the close of the financial year by such 
officer as may be appointed by the Central Goverument . 


( 4 ) Tho certificates under sub - rule ( 1 ) shall be sent to the Central Govern 
ment and copies thereof to the Accountant General, West Bengal and the Coal 
Board and the certificate under sub - rule 3 shall be sent to the Central Govern 
ment and copies thereof to the Accountant General concerned and the Coal Board 
by the officers concerned . 


Part II - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOB 14, 


2015 


CHAPTER VI 
POWERS OF THE BOARD ; PENALTIES TO BE IMPORTED ETC. 
33, Coal samples for analysis , - ( 1 ) The Board may for determining the 
grade and type of coal in any coal mine authorise in writing any Techincal 
Officer of the Board or of the Central Government suitably qualified in this 
behalf to draw samples of coal for analysis from any seam or section of a 
seam of the coal mine and the owner , agent or manager , of the coal mine shall 
afford reasonable facilities to the officer 60 lauthorised for the collection of 
such samples . 

( 2 ) Grading will be done in accordance with the specifications prescribed 
by the Central Government from time to time for the purposes of the Colliery 
Control Order , 1945 . 

34 . Duties regarding information and inspection ( 1 ) Every owner , agent 
or manager of a coal mine shall on request promptly furnish to the Board such 
information and plans as may be required by the Board for any purpose in 
furtherance of the objects of the Act. 

( 2 ) Every owner , agent or manager of a mine shall attord the members 
of the Board or of any Advisory Committee constituted by the Central Govern 
ment under section 15 of the Act or any person duly authorised by the Board all 
Teasonable facilities as may be necessary for carrying out the objects of the Act . 

35 . Orders for stowing for safety , - ( 1 ) Any order issued by a competent 
authority under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 13 of the Act shall be complied with 
by the owner , agent or manager of a colllery within the period prescribed thereln 
and failure to do so shall be deemed to be a contravention of this rule . 

( 2 ) Before an order is issued by the Board in exercise of the powers dele 
gated to it by the Central Government for stowing for safety under clause ( a ) 
of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 7 or by an officer duly authorised under sub - sec 
tion ( 4 ) of section 13, a duly qualified Inspecting Officer of the Board shall be 
deputed to inspect the mine and draw up plans of the areas to be stowed and 
to submit a report to the Board giving the details of the danger to the mine 
or neighbouring mines, the period within which stowing should be done, the 
areas to be stowed , the material to be used , the method of stowing to be adopted 
and the estimated cost of such stowing. 

( 3 ) The report may be referred by the Board to an Advisory Committee 
constituted under section 15 and the views of the Advisory Committee shall 
be considered by the Board . 

(4 ) An order for stowing for safety shall detall the measures to be under 
taken by the owner , agent or manager of the coal mine and the reasons there 
for and the dates within which they should be commenced and completed and 
shall be accompanied by the plan of the area to be stowed . 

38 . Stowlag for conservation . ( 1 ) For the purpose of conservation of coal 
the Central Government may under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 issue or cause 
to be issued an order in writing requiring the owner , agent or manager of any 
coal mine to undertake stowing in such manner and within such period as may 
be prescribed in the order , 

( 2 ) The Central Government shall require an Inspecting Omcer or Inspect 
ing Omcers to submit a report in regard to the colliery Of collleries where , it 
stowing for conservation is not adopted , there will be a loss of coal which 
should be avoided in the public interest by the adoption of stowing . 


(9 ) The Central Government may call for and consider the opinion , of an 
Advisory Committee constituted under section 16 of the Act in regard to tho 
Decessity tor stowing for conservation in any coal mine or mines . 

(4 ) On consideration of the report of the Advisory Committee the Central 
Government shall from time to time determine the grade or grades , if any of 
coal other than coking coal or coal which on beneficiation is likely to yield 
coking coal or coal suitable for blending which are required to be conserved 
and the colliery or collieries which should carry out stowing operations to 
veasure the maximum percentage of extraction of coal, 

( 5 ) An order for stowing for conservation shall detall the measures to bo 
undertaken by the owner , agent or manager and the reasons therefor and tho 
dates within which they should be commenced and shall be accompanied by # 
plan of the area to be stowed . 


2356 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1984 [ PART II - SEC: 3 

= = = 
37. Washing for conservation , -- ( 1 ) Before the issue of an order requiring 
the owner , agent or manager of a colliery to take steps to beneficiate the coal 
produced from the colliery , the Central Government shall consider the wash 
ability characteristics of the coal, adequacy of transport facilities , the cost of 
washing, the disposal of middlings and such other matters as will make coal 
washing economically feasible . 


( 2 ) The views of an Advisory Committee consulted under section 15 of the 
Act may be called for and considered before the issue of an order specified in 
sub - rule ( 1 ) . 


( 3 ) If the coal washery is to be installed by the owner, agent or manager 
of the mine specified in the order , the capacity of the washing plant to be in 
stalled , the grade or grades of coals thrut are required to be washed , the speci 
fed standard of the washed product and the nature and extent of the assis 
tance that may be given by the Board shall be specified in the order . 

(4 ) In such circumstances as may be considered expedient or appropriate , 
the owner, agent or manager of a colliery may by order in writing be required 
to get his coal washed at any central Washery . 


38 . Other measures for conservation , - ( 1 ) The Central Government may by 
order in writing , served on the owner , agent or manager of a coal mine specify 
the maximum quantity of coal of any grade or grades that shall be produced 
during a specifled period in accordance with any policy of coal conservation 
as may be determined by the Board , 

( 2 ) The Central Government may by order in writing, served on the owner , 
agent or manager of coal mine require the method of working in any Coal 
Mine or seams to be modifled in such manner as it deems necessary for the 
purpose of ensuring the conservation of coal. 

( 3 ) The Central Government may by order in writing served on the owner , 
agent or manager or a colliery prohibit the carrying out of depillaring opera 
tions in the colliery or a seam without stowing or the splitting of pillars as a 
final mining operation in a colliery or a seam or any other operations connect 
ed with mining, which in the opinion of the Central Government may result 
in undue loss of coal, spread of fire or flooding . 

(4 ) The owner, agent or manager of a coal mine shall give notice in writing 
to the Board of his intention to depillar in any coal seam or of his intention 
to split pillars in any seam as a final operation in mining and such notice shall 
be given at least one full month before the date of commencement of such 
mining operations provided that no notice need be given where the depillaring is 
carried out with the aid of stowing . 

( 5 ) The Central Government may issue such directions as it deems At res 
tricting the supply of coking coal of any grade or grades or qualities to specified 
consumers in accordance with any policy of coal conservation as may be deter 
mined by the Board . 


(6 ) The Central Government may by order in writing require the owner of 
any steel works, blast furnace or coke oven , using coking coal to undertake 
blending for conservation of coal in accordance with such procedure as may 
be determined by it from time to time, 


39 . Opening and reopening of Coal Mines, — ( 1 ) No coal minc or seam shall 
be , opened and no coal mine or seam the working whereof has been discontinued 
for a period exceeding six months shall be reopened and no operation shall be 
commenced without the prior permission in writing of the Board and except 
in accordance with such directions as the Board may give. 


( 2 ) When the coal produced in any coal mine or seam has not been graded . 
the Board shall when granting permission under sub -rule ( 1 ) require the owner 
to apply for a certificate of the grade or grades of coal produced in each seam 
of the coal mine. The owner shall accordingly submit an application in the 
manner prescribed hy the Board , 

( 3 ) The Board shall grant a provisional grade on the basis of the seam 
sample . When the coai is allowed to be despatched on the basis of the pro 
visional grade the Board shall have power to draw wagon samples in the pre 
sence of a representative of the colliery to determine the quality of the coal 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2357 


pertaining to the seam or seams. On the basis of the wagon sample drawn on 
at loast three different days the final grade of the seam or seams of the parti 
cular colliery will be fixed by the Board . 

(4 ) No coal shall be despatched from a coal mine without getting certi 
Acate of grade under sub - rule ( 3 ) indicating the grade or grades of coal to be 
produced and despatched and no two grades of coal shall be mixed before despatch 
without the prior permission in writing of the Board . 

( 5 ) In the case of any coal mine producing more than one grade of coal, 
the owner , agent or manager shall make such arrangements as may be re 
quired by the Board to ensure that different grades of coal are not mixed 
before despatch 

40. Closing of Coal producing coking coal. — Save where a coal mine 
is abandoned or closed owing to unforescen or uncontrollable natural causes 
such as fire or flood , the owner of the coal inine shall give notice in writing of 
his intention to close the minc, or any seam containing coking coal, to the 
Chairman , Coal Board , not less than three months before the date on which it 
is proposed to closc the nine or the seam stating briefly the reasons for the 
intended closure . 

(2 ) Within 15 days of the receipt of the notice referred to in sub - rule ( 1 ) , 
the Chairman , Coal Board , may intimate the owner of the colliery of the 
intention of the Board to examine the case in the interest of conservation of 
coking coal. 

( 3 ) A coal mine or seam in respect of which an intimation under sub -rule 
( 2 ) is given to the owner , shall not be closod and mining operations shall not 
be stopped except with the written permission of the Board . 


41. Acquisition of lands and surface rights . ---For the due furtherance of the 
objects of the Act, the Board may acquire any lands or other surface rights or 
the right to remove sand from river beds and may dispose of surplus lands or 
surface rights or the rights to remove sand from river beds in its possession in 
accordance with rules to be framed by the Board with the approval of the Central 
Government or subject to such dircitions as may be given by the Central Gov 
ernment. 

42 . Construction of ropeways and other structures, - ( 1 ) The Board may 
construct or cause to be constructed ropeways and such other works or struc 
tures as may from time to time be required . 

( 2 ) Before any owner , agent or manager of a coal mine construct a rope 
way or other works ( or structures ) for excavating , loading , unloading or con 
veying of sand or other material for stowing in coal mines and obtains lease 
of a site to take sand from a river, hc shall seek the approval of the Board 
to the scheme for which the Installation or the lease , as the case may be, is 
considered necessary and such approval shall not ordinarily be withheld unless 
the scheme is likely to interfere with arrangements for the supply of sand or 
other stowing material to other coal mincs or for other reasons which are to 
be recorded in writing. 

( 3 ) Before any owner , agent or manager of a coal mine instals any stowing 
plant not referred to in sub - rule ( 2 ) or washing plant he shall seek the prior 
approval of the Board for such an installation . 

43. Appeal to the Central Government. If the owner, agent or manager of 
a coal mine has any objection to any order issued by the Board under rules 
35, 36 , 37 , 38 , sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 39 , 40 , 41 sub - rules ( 2 ) ( 3 ) of rule 42 or rule 
44 may , within 30 days of receipt of the order appeal against the same to the 
Central Government which may cowarm , modify or cancel the order , as it 
deems necessary . A copy of such ppeal shall be forwarded by such owner, 
agent or manager to the Coal Board , 

Provided that on receipt of notice of appeal from the owner , agent or manager 
of a coal mine the operation of orders under rules, 35 , 36 , 37 Or 38 shall be 
Suspended , pending the decision of the Central Government save and except 
in such case where compliance with such order is considered by the Board to 
be urgent. 


44 . Power of the Central Government to recover cost. - The Central Govern , 
ment or with the approval of the Central Government the Board may recover 
from the owner, agent or manager of a colliery either wholly or partially the cost 


2358 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1964 


[ PART II - Sgc, 3 


of such measures or operations as are undertaken under section 6 if it is satisfied 
on consideration of all facts and circumstances that such recovery of cost is 
justified . 

45 . Supply of copies of Ordon . - ( 1) A copy of every order 1ssued by the 
Board under rules 35, 36 , 37, 38 and 39 shall be forwarded to the Chief Inspector 
and the Coal Commissioner . 

(2 ) A copy of every application received under sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 39 shall 
be sent to the Chief Inspector and the Coal Commissioner. 

( 3 ) A copy of every order issued by the Chief Inspector or an Inspector 
under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 13 shall be forwarded forthwith by such Chief 
Inspector or Inspector to the Board . 

46 . Secrecy of Information obtained . - ( 1 ) All copies of , and extracts from 
registers, plans and other records appertaining to any mine and all other in 
formation acquired by a member of any Advisory Committee constituted , 
under section 16 of the Act or by any person referred to in sub - rule (2 ) of 
Rule 34 shall be regarded as confidential and shall not be disclosed to any 
person or authority unless the Chairman of the Board considers disclosure 
necessary to ensure safety or the conservation of coal. 


( 2) Nothing in sub - rule ( 1) shall apply to disclosure of such information (if 50 
required ) to : 

(a ) any Court ; 


(b ) a Mining Board , Committee or Court of enquiry constituted or ap 

pointed under section 12 , section 13 or section 24 of the Mines 

Act , 1952, as the case may be. 
( 3 ) If any person referred to in sub - rule ( 1 ) discloses , contrary to the pro 
visions of this rule any such information as aforesaid without the consent of the 
Central Government or the Chairman , Coal Board , he shall be punishable with 
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine or 
with both . 


( 4 ) No court shall take cognizance of any offence under the rule except with 
the previous sanction of the Central Government. 


47. Penalty for contraventions of the rules, - ( 1 ) Any contravention of these 
rules ghall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months 
or fine or both . 


(2 ) No prosecution shall be instituted against any owner , agent or manager 
of a coal mine for any offence under these rules except with the sanction of 
the Board and at the instance of the Chairman of the Board . 


48 . Execution of protective measures directly by the Board . - ( 1 ) The Board 
may prescribe the procedure to be followed for the submission of reports by 
the Inspecting Omcer of the Board or the Chief Inspector of Mines and the 
examination of cases where it is necessary or expedient for the Board to under 
take any protective measures under section 6 . 


( 2 ) The Board , may for reasons to be recorded in writing sanction the payment 
from the Fund of the full cost of any protective measures undertaken under 
section ( 6 ) provided that :-- 
(i ) subject to the provisions of clause Vii) of this proviso the Board shall 

not undertake any such protecuve measures without the previous 
sanction of the Central Government, if the estimated cost of such 

measures exceeds rupees one lakh . 
(11) in the case of protective works of an emergent nature which brook 

no delay and are estimated to cost more than Rs, 1 lakh but not 
more than Rs. 5 lakhs the Board may commence the work and 
simultaneously apply for sanction . The actual expenditure should 
not in any case exceed Rs. 1 lakh until Government sanction is 
obtained . 


PART JI - Stc . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTUB , 


1004 


2959 


CHAPTER VII 

PROCEDURI FOR THE GRANT OF ASSISTANCE 
49 . Purposes for which assistance may be granted — ( 1 ) The Board may grant 
assistance from the Funds to any owner , agent or manager of coal mine 

( a ) for stowing or other protective measures which are required to be under 
taken by an order issued under sub -section ( 3 ) of section 13 or sub - rule ( 2 ) of 
rule 35 : 

(b ) for any measures which in the opinion of the Board are essential for 
the effective prevention of the spread of fire to or the innundation by water of 
any coal mine from an area adjacent to it ; 

(c ) for stowing for conservation of coal or washing coal which is required 
to be undertaken by an order under rule 38 or 37 . 

(d ) for the following measures voluntarily undertaken by the owner, agent 
or manager of the coal mine : 

(1) stowing operations in the Interests of safety or conservation of coal, 
( 11) any process of washing or cleaning coal which reduces its ash con 

tent and also improves its qualities or, 
(ili ) any other measures for safety in coal mines or for conservation of 

coal, 
( e ) for any other measures undertaken by the owner , agent or manager of 
a coal mine under the order of the Board to ensure conservation of coal, 

(2 ) The Board may grant assistance to owner of any steel work , blast furnace 
or coke plant for blending of coal undertaken under the orders of the Board . 

50 . Application for Assistance . — ( 1 ) The Board may determine the form in 
which applications for assistance are to be made, the documents and the parti 
culars which are to accompany such applications and the dates by which the 
applications shall be submitted . 


( 2 ) Every owner , agent or manager who requires assistance from the Fund 
during any Anancial year shall apply for such assistance in conformity with the 
procedure determined by the Board under sub -rule ( 1 ) . 

51. Priority among applications for assistance . - - ( 1 ) Priority among appli 
cations under rule 49 shall be determined by the Board according to the degree 
of urgency of the proposed operations from the point of view of safety and 
of conservation . 

( 2 ) (a ) Before determining priority among applications for assistance for 
stowing operations voluntarily undertaken for safety , the Board shall call for 
and consider the opinion of the Chief Inspector or of an Advisory Committee ag 
may be expedient. 

(b ) The Board may call for and consider the opinion of any Advisory Com 
mittee constituted under section 15 of the Act before determining priority 
under sub -rule ( 1 ) . 

52. Form of assistance . — The Board may grant assistance from the Fund, at its 
discretion in each case in one or more of the following ways : 

(1) by the grant of stowing materials; 
(11) by the loan of stowing plant or such other plant as the Board may decide; 
( iii) by making monetary grants towards the expenses involved in carrying 

out the measures for which assistance is granted ; 
(iv ) by the grant of loan for meeting either wholly or in part expenses on the 

purchase and installation of stowing plant in coal mines blending plant 

or washing plant or any other plant for the beneficiation of coal. 
53 . Quantum of assistance . - ( 1 ) Assistance from the Fund shall be granted by 
the Board with due regard to the circumstances of each case and the Board may 
fix from time to time with the approval of the Central Government the maximum 
rate or amount of assistance to be granted for any measure or measures for safety 
or conservation of coal provided that quantum of assistance for stowing for con 
servation undertaken under clause ( c ) and ( d ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 49 shall not 
exceed the assistance granted for stowing undertaken voluntarily in the interests 
of safety in coal mines . 


2360 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


( PART II - Sec , 3 


- 


- 


( 2 ) Where assistance is granted in the form of a monetary grant it shall be based 
on the expenditure involved ( including the cost of depreciation of any plant in use ) 
as assessed by the Board for the execution of the measures for which the assistance 
is granted. 


( 3 ) A loan for the purchase and installation of plant shall take the form 
of direct payment or guarantee of payment, unto the limit of the loan sanctioned 
of the bills as the Board muy consider necessary. 


54 , Conditions attarling to a grant of assistance . Before granting assistance 
under these Rules , the Board shall require the owner , agent or manager of the 
mine to whom assistance is proposed to be granted to execute a bond with or 
without surety for the fulllment of such conditions as may be imposed by the Board . 

55 . Conditions attack.. y tu th . unt of loans. - ( 1 ) The Central Government 
shall from time to time fix the rates of interest to be charged on loans granted by 
the Board for the purchase and installation of slowing plant, blending plant, washing 
plant, or any other beneficiation plant. 
( 2 ) Every such loan shall 
( a ) bear Interest until repayment at the rate Axed under sub -rule ( 1 ) and in 

force at the time of granting the loans and 
(b ) shall be repayable within such time as the Board may in each case 

determine. 
(3 ) The Board shall, before granting any loan , take proper security for its re 
payment. 


56 . Research . - ( 1 ) The Board may grant assistance from the Fund for the prosc 
cution by any agency of such types of research work connected with safety in coal 
mines or conservation and utilisation of coal as may be authorised by the Central 
Government. 

(2 ) The Board may also arrange for the prosecution of research work under 
its own supervision , 

CHAPTER VIII 

ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 
57. Deposit of money . - The sum of money received under section 11 and any 
other moneys received by or on behalf of the Board shall be deposited to the credit 
of the Coal Mines Safety and Conservation Fund in the manner provided in 
rule 58 . 


currentheme 
by the Chich trust, potom 


58 . Keeping of accounts in banks, — ( 1 ) The current account or accounts of the 
Board shall be kept in such Banks as may be approved by the Central Government 
and all moneys at the disposal of the Board with the exception of petty cash and 
of moneys placed in fixed deposit or invested in accordance with the provisions 
hereinafter contained shall be pald into those accounts. 

( 2 ) Any funds not required for current expenditure may be placed in fixed 
deposit with any bank approved in this behalf by the Central Government or 
Invested in the name of the Board in any security in which trust property may 
lawfully be invested under the Indian Trusts Act , 1882 ( II of 1882 ) . 

( 3 ) The placing of money in fixed deposit and the investment thereof and 
disposal of moneys so placed or invested shall be subject to the sanction of the 
Board . 

(4 ) Payments by or on behalf of the Board shall be made in cash or by chequex 
drawn against a current account of the Board. 

(5 ) The cheque referred to in sub - rule ( 4 ) and all orders for the making of 
deposits or investments or for the withdrawal of such deposits or the realisation 
of such investments or for the disposal in any other manner of the funds 
of the Board shall be signed by the Secretary to the Board or an officer duly 
authorised in this behalf by the Board and countersigned by the Chairman or by : 
member authorised by the Board in this behalf . 

59 . Budret - ( 1 ) The Board shall in each year prepare a budget for the ensuing 
financial year and shall submit it for the sanction of the Central Government on 
or before the 1st November . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2361 


(2 ) The Budget shall include statements of : 

(i) the estimated opening balance ; 
( ii ) the estimated receipts under section 11 and from other sources and 
(iii) the proposed expenditure classified under the heads specified in sub -rule 

( 3 ) of rule 61 and such other heads as may be settled at a meeting 
of the Board . 


60 . Keeping auditing and publication of accounts. - ( 1 ) The Board shall keep 
accounts of all moneys received in and expended out of the Fund during each 
financial year . 

( 2 ) Such accounts shall be examined and audited as prescribed in sub - section 
(2 ) of Section 12 of the Act . 

(3 ) The Comptroller and Auditor General may disallow any item which has 
in his opinion been expended out of the Fund otherwise than as directed by or 
under the Act or these rules. 

(4 ) If an item of expenditure is disallowed by the Comptroller and Auditor 
General the Central Government may ; 

( a ) either remit the disallowance made by the Auditors ; or 
( b ) sanction the expenditure; or 
( c ) direct that the amount be recovered from the person or persons respon 

sible for the expenditure and credited to the fund , provided that no 
recovery under the sub - clause shall be permissible if the expenditure 

has been incurred in good faith ; or 
( d ) direct that the item disallowed shall be dealt with in such other way 

as the Central Government may think fit. 
( 5 ) The audited statement of receipts and expenditure together with the annual 
report referred to in clause ( 3 ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 13 shall be submitted to the 
Central Government not later than the 31st day of July in each year. 

(6 ) An abstract statement of the accounts together with the Auditor s report 
thereon shall be published annually in the official Gazette . 

61 . Receipts and Expenditure . — ( 1 ) The accounts of receipts shall be shown 
under the following heads : 

( a ) a sum received under section 11; 
( b ) any other moneys received; 
( c ) any interest that may have accrued from the investment of such sum 

or moneys as aforesaid . 
2 . Total receipts only shall be shown under each of the heads specified in 
suh -rule ( 1 ) and the opening balance , if any, shall also be stated . 
( 3 ) Accounts of expenditure shall be shown under the following heads: 

( a ) administration of the Board ; 
(b ) other expenditure connected with the administration of the Act; 
( c ) grant of stowing materials or other assistance for stowing operations 

to owners , agents or managers of coal mines ; 
(d ) other measures taken in connection with furtherance of the objects of 

the Act ; 
( e ) miscellaneous. 
(4 ) The closing balance of the year shall be shown at the foot of the accounts 
on the expenditure side. 

( 5 ) In addition to the particulars required by sub -rule ( 3 ) separate statements 
under heads ( c ) and ( d ) referred to in that sub - rule shall be n up , which 
shall show the sums paid to each owner , agent or managerka coal mine 
independently or spent otherwise , 

[No. 24 -CI(6 ) / 52 . ] 
A . NANU , Dy. Socy . 


2362 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


(PART II - SEC. 3 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 23rd September 1954 
S . R . O . 3147. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
22 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , as extended to Chander 
nagore , the Central Government hereby specifies that each of the undermentioned 
officers shall in respect of Chandernagore be the authority to whom intimation by 
the employer of any lock - out or strike referred to in the said section shall be 
sent: 

( 1 ) The Conciliation Officer (Central) , Calcutta I. 
(2 ) The Conciliation Officer ( Central) , Calcutta II . 

[No. LR . 1 ( 10 ) / 54. ) 


S .RO . 3148 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , as extended to Chandernagore , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the following officers as conciliation officers in res 
pect of all industrial disputes in Chandernagore: 

1 . Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) . 
2 . Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ) , Calcutta . 
3 . Conciliation Officer (Central ) , Calcutta I . 
4 . Conciliation Officer (Central) , Calcutta II . 

( No. LR . 1 ( 10 ) /54 .} 


S . R . O . 3149.- In pursuance of clauses ( a ) and ( c ) of section 2 of the Industrial 
Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act , 1946 (XX of 1946 ) , as extended to Chander 
nagore , the Central Government hereby appoints 
( i) the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) to exercise the functions of 

an appellate authority under the said Act in respect of all industrial 

establishments in Chandernagore to which the said Act applies ; and 
( ii) the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) , Calcutta , to exercise the 

functions of a Certifying Officer under the said Act in respect of the 
aforesaid industrial establishments . 

[No. LR .1 ( 10 ) / 54 / II. ) 


in the manter e 


der 


en del av en ar DEAN 


S . R . O . 3150. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Muktipada Basu and others , workmen of the 
Railway Collieries . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 371 OF 1953 

(arising out of Reference No . 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave , B . A ., L .L .B . — Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Shri Muktipada Basu & Others , c / o Dr. Prakriti Bhusan Gupta , P . O . Giridih , 
Dist. Hazaribagh . - - Complainants . 

Vs. 
Chief Mining Engineer , Railway Board , 1, Council House Street, Calcutta .. 
site party . 

APPEARANCES 
Dr. Prakrit Rhusan Gupta , General Secretary , Hazaribagh District Coal 

Mazdoor Union , Giridih , Dist . Hazaribagh . For the complainants . 
Shri D . R . Bagro Superintendent of Collieries , Girdidih . Dist. Hazaribagh . 

For the on site party . 


PART II- SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2363 


AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act . 

2 . The complainants alleged that the opposite party is realising house rent 
from the employees appointed on and after 1st June 1944 ; that the house rents 
were not realised before the proceedings under Reference No. 6 of 1952 ; that there 
was no such condition laid down at the time of their appointment, and that no 
rent was charged from employees working in the coal industry . The complainants 
urged that the opposite party had thus committed a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , during the pendency of Reference No 6 of 1952 and filed 
the present complaint for passing such orders as may be deemed fit and proper . 

3 The opposite party urged inter alra that the staff appointed before 1st June 
1944 were governed by the Railway Rules and were entitled to free quarters and 
free supply of electricity in terms of the Indian Government Railway Engineering 
Code, Chapter XIX , Paras 1904 (1 ) & ( 11 ) The railway collieries were taken 
over by the late Ministry of Industry and Supply (now the Ministry of Produc 
tion ) from the Ministry of Railways on and from 1st June 1944 . Consequently all 
staff appointed in the railway collieries on and from that date were governed by 
Civil Service Rules and were not entitled to free quarters or free supply of 
electricity There was no such agreement stipulated in their service records that 
they would be entitled to these concessions Instructions were issued to all 
collieries for recovery of house rent, electric charges, etc . according to orders 
received from the Ministry dated 28th February 1952 . On receipt of representa 
tions from the members of the staff against the above orders a request was made 
by the opposite party to the Ministry to reconsider the case and to issue revised 
orders After prolonged correspondence , the Ministry decided that the original 
decision already communicated could not be altered . It was further contended 
that non - enforcement of terms of conditions of service or allowing some conces 
sions for some time would not create any new condition of service in favour of 
the complainants or other workmen It was urged that the complaint should be 
dismissed . 

4 The complainants are workmen employed in the different collieries belong 
ing to the State Railways They filed the present complaint alleging that the 
opposite party has changed their conditions of service during the pendency of 
Reference No 6 of 1952 without obtaining the permission of this Tribunal by 
recovering house rent from them . It was further urged that no house rent was 
formerly being recovered from them at the time of the commencement of pro 
ceedings in Reference No 6 of 1952 and hence when the opposite party began to 
collect rent during the pendency of Refernce No 6 of 1952, it amounted to a breach 
of Section 33 . 


5 . It is not in dispute that the opposite party is now collecting rent from its 
employees , who were employed on and after ist June 1944 . No rent is being 
collected from employees who were appointed prior to this date . The opposite 
party contends that it has a right to recover rent from persons employed after 
1st June 1944 In this connection , it is an admitted fact that till 1st June 1944 , 
the railway collieries were under the Ministry of Railways But from that day , 
they were taken over by the then Ministry of Industry and Supply (now the 
Ministry of Production ) . 

6 . The opposite party s contention is that persons employed in the State Rail 
way collieries prior to 1st June 1944 were governed by Railway CodeThe people 
who were employed on and after 1st June 1944 would be governed by Civil Ser 
vice Rules It was not disputed before me that a person governed by Civil Service 
Rules is not entitled to free quarters and would have to pay rent for Government 
quarters supplied to him . This would mean that persons employed in State 
Railway collieries after 1st June 1944 would be liable to pay rent ( for quarters 
supplied to them ) , as they would be governed by the Civil Service Rules , and not 
by the Railway Code . 


7. It was however argued by Dr. Gupta that rent was never recovered from 
any of the complainants or from any of the employees of the State Railway 
collieries and that rent began to be recovered only recently during the pendency 
of Reference No 6 of 1952, and that this amounted to a change of service condi 
tions. Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act provides inter alia that during 
the pendency of proceedings before a Tribunal, no employer shall alter to the pre 
judice of the workmen concerned in such dispute the conditions of service applica 
ble to them immediately before the commencement of such proceedings. It was 
urged from this that as no rent was recovered from the complainants immediately 
before the commencement of the proceedings in R rence No 6 of 1952, it would 


2364 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1984 


[PART II - SEC , 3 


amount to a breach of this section if rent began to be recovered from them during 
the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 . I am unable to accept this contention . 
The complainants , who were admittedly appointed after 1st June , 1944 , were 
governed by the Civil Service Rules and not by the Railway Code. The complai 
nants have alleged that rent is being recovered from persons appointed on and 
after 1st June, 1944. That is, no rent is being recovered from persons appointed 
prior to that date . In case of employees appointed on and after 1st June, 1944 , 
they were , as I said above, governed by the Civil Service Rules and not by the 
Railway Code. That being so , it was not a condition of their service that they 
would be entitled to free quarters. In other words, they would be liable to pay 
rent for Government quarters if supplied to them . 


8 . It is true that no rent appears to have been recovered from them till 
recently , i.e , no rent was recovered from them immediately before the commence 
ment of proceeding in Reference No. 6 of 1952. Section 33 however requires that 
the condition of service applicable to the employees immediately before the 
commencement of the proceedings should not be allered , and not that conditions 
of service prevailing at that time should not be altered . What condition was 
prevailing at the time of the proceedings in Reference No . 6 of 1952 is immaterial. 
The question is as to what were the conditions of service applicable to the complai 
nants at that time. Persons governed by the Civil Service Rules are not entitled 
to free quarters and were liable to pay rent and this would be the condition of 
service which was applicable to them at that time. For one reason or another 
no rent may have been recovered from them at that time, but it could not be 
.said that it was a condition of service applicable to them that they were entitled 
to free quarters. That being so , it cannot be said that the opposite party has 
altered the condition of service applicable to the complainants immedlately before 
the commencement of proceedings in Reference No. 6 of 1952. In other words, the 
opposite party has not committed a breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act . 


9 . It was urged on behalf of the complainants that no rent was charged from 
employees working in the coal industry, and hence no rent should be charged 
from the complainants . This question does not arise in a complaint under Section 
33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. The scope of enquiry of a complaint under 
Section 33A is limited . I can only see whether a breach of Section 33 has been 
committed by alteration of seryice conditions. If no such breach has been made, 
the complaint would fall. In these proceedings , I cannot enter into the question 
as to whether the employees of the State Railway Collieries should be given the 
benefit of free quarters or not. In this connection , I may also mention that this 
is one of the points which has been referred to the All India Industrial Tribunal 
( Colliery Dispute ) and will be decided by that Tribunal, 


10 . On the whole, I held that the complaint fails and must be dismissed . 

I pass my award accordingly , 
The 8th September , 1954 , 

( Sd .) L . P . DAVE , Chairrcan , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[ No . LR - 2 ( 365 ) / IV .) 


SR . O . 3151. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Rampat, a workman of the Kotma Colliery , 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 21 OF 1954 

( arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave, B .A ., LL .B ., - Chairman . 


PART II — Sac . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1934 


2365 


Theany party heged to 


PARTIES 
Rampat S / o Ram Gopal, Chowkidar of Associated Cement Companies Ltd ., 

Kotma Colliery, P . O . Kotma, Dist. Shahdol. Vindhya Pradesh - Com 
φίαίπαnt . 

Vs. 
The management of the Associated Cement Companies Limited , Kotma 
Colliery , P . O . Kotma, Distt. Shahdol — Opposite party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri N . K . Mhaskar, Omcer of Kamgar Samity Kotma Colllery , P . O . Kotma, 

Distt. Shahdol. Vindhya Pradesh - For the complainants. 
Shri R . H . Ranga Rao , Senior Personnel Officer , Associated Cement Com 
panies Limited ., Bombay - For the opposite party . 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleged that during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 
1952, the opposite party wrongfully suspended and expelled him on 3rd August 
1953 without any charge sheet and without obtaining the permission of this 
Tribunal. The Union made a representation to the Regional Labour Commissioner 
in this connection on 9th September 1953 ; but nothing came out of it. He has 
therefore Aled the present complaint. 

3 . The opposite party contended that the complaint was not maintainable . 
There was no dispute , much less an industrial dispute , between the opposite party 
and their workmen . The complainant was working as a Night Chowkidar . On 
the night of 2nd September 1953 , the Manager s bungalow night guard heard 
gome cries and went out and found that the complainant and another person were 
assaulting a night chowkidar Sursari Prasad . As the manager was out of station , 
the Office Superintendent held a preliminary enquiry on 3rd September 1953 and 
suspended the complainant, pending a full enquiry of the complainant by the 
manager on his return . On his return , the manager went further into the matter 
and was satisfied that there was a prima facie case against the complainant and 
wanted to issue a charge sheet to him . The complainant however requested that 
he should not be charge sheeted or dismissed , but should be allowed to resign . 
He however left the colliery without submitting his resignation . The opposite 
party deniod that the complainant had been expelled and urged that the pre 
sent complaint should be dismissed . 

4 . The preliminary objections were raised by Mr. Ranga Rao on behalf of the 
opposite party . The first was that there was no dispute , much legs an industrial 
dispute, between the opposite party and their workmen regarding giving of paid 
holidays on the Independence Day and the Republic Day and that the Order of 
Reference in Reference No. 6 of 1952 was bad at least so far as the opposite party 
was concerned . This point was raised by the opposite party in some other com 
plaints (under Section 33A ) Aled agalast them by some other employees . I 
have considered this point in my awards in applications Nos . 26 of 1954 and 64 
of 1954 and come to the conclusion that this contention cannot be accepted . For 
the same reasons as mentioned in these cases , I hold that this contention cannot 
be accepted . 

5 . The second preliminary objection raised by Mr. Ranga Rao on behalf of the 
opposite party was that the present complaint has been Aled after an unreasonable 
delay , and should be dismissed on that ground . As held in the case of General 
Motors ( India ) Ltd ., 1954 , Vol. I, L . L . J ., p . 676 , a complaint under Section 23 of the 
Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal ) Act, 1950 (which correspondent to 
Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act ) must as far as possible be Aled during 
the pendency of proceedings before a Tribunal and if it had not been Aled during 
the pendency of these proceedings , it should be filed within a reasonable time. 

6 . The award in Reference No. 6 of 1952 was published in the Gazette of India 
on 10th October 1953 and hence under Section 20 ( 3 ) read with Section 17A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, the proceedings in the above reference , must be 
deemed to have concluded from 10th November 1953 . The complainant s case is 
that he was suspended from 3rd August 1953. The present complaint has been 
filed on 26th February 1954. In other words , the complaint is Aled 31 months after 
the proceedings in Reference No. 6 of 1952 had concluded and more than six 
months after his suspension and dismissal. On the face of it, there has been un 
reasonable delay in filing the complaint. 

7 . The complainant has alleged that the Labour Union had made a repre 
sentation to the Regional Labour Commissioner and as nothing came out of it , 
the present complaint was filed . If a person wants to Alle a complaint under 


- 2366 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1904 


(PART II — Sac. 8 


Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, he should not take other steps. After 
all, the Regional Labour Commissioner s powers were merely recommendatory . 
Further , the complainant should not have waited for an unduly long time when 
he found that nothing came out of the application made to the Regional Labour 
Commissioner . In my opinion , the complaint has been Aled after an unreasonable 
delay and must be dismissed . 


8 . Coming to the merits of the case , the case of the complainant is that he was 
falsely charged with having assaulted one Sursari Prasad and was suspended and 
later on summarily dismissed without a charge sheet or enquiry . The manage 
ment s case is that the complainant had assaulted one Sursari Prasad because he 
found him asleep on duty and that in the course of the preliminary enquiry held 
by the Manager , the complainant admitted his guilt . The manager thereupon 
wanted to issue a charge sheet to the complainant but the complainant requested 
that he should be allowed to resign ; because if he was charge sheeted and dis 
missed , he would not get a job elsewhere . The complainant has examined himself 

( Exhibit 10 ) and one Ramsia ( Exhibit 1 ] ) in support of his case . On the other 
hand , the management have examined the manager ( Exhibit 13 ) , Sursari Prasad 
( Exhibit 12 ) , the Office Superintendent ( Exhibit 14 ) , a watchman Yam Bahadur 
(Exhibit 15 ) and the Dafl - in - Charge (Exhibit 16 ) , in support of their case . 

9. It is true that the management did not issue a charge sheet to the com 
plainant nor did they hold any formal inquiry . According to them , they have not 
dismissed the complainant; but the complainant left the collicry of his own accord , 
when he found that he was to be charge sheeted and would be dismissed . Even 
then , I think that the management, when they found that the complainant had 
gono way without tendering a resignation as promised by him , should have 
issued a charge sheet to him and sent it to him by registered post. This however 
has not been done probably because officers concerned were ignorant of the proper 
procedure to be followed in such cases. Admittedly the complainant was 
suspended on 3rd September 1953 by the Office Superintendent; this suspension 
was oral and not in writing . This is admitted by both sides . This shows that the 
officers of the management were not aware of the proper procedure to be followed 
in such a case . 

10 . Even if an employee is dismissed without issuing a charge sheet and with 
out holding an enquiry , it would not ipso facto entitle the employee to be reinstated . 
It would only mean that the Tribunal could go into the merits of the case and 
decide whether the complainant s guilt was proved or not . In the present case, 
the management have produced sufficient evidence to show that the complainant 
was guilty of an offence of assaulting another watchman . From the evidence , I 
am also satisfied that the complainant was not dismissed as alleged by him , but 
left the colliery of his own accord . 

11 , That some incident took place on the night of 2nd September 1953 and 3rd 
September 1953 between the complainant and one Sursari Prasad is not in dispute , 
There is however a difference as to what were the incidents which actually 
happened . According to the complainant, he went to answer the call of nature 
after asking Sursari Prasad to keep a watch in his place and when he ( the com 
plainant) returned after a few minutes , he found that Sursari Prasad had left, 
taking the complainant s lantern with him . He thereupon pursued him and asked 
hiin to return the lantern , to which Sursari Prasad said that the complainant was 
found asleep , and that the complainant wanted to assault him . There was no 
reason why Sursari Prasad should have made these false allegations that very 
night. He immediately went and complained to the Daft - in - Charge about the 
complainant s conduct that very night. Information was also given to the office 
Superintendent immediately . This conduct of Sursari Prasad corroborates his 
allegation that he had found the complainant asleep and also that the complainant 
had tried to assault him . 


12. It ig true that there has been some exaggeration in the allegations made by 
Sursari Prasad . It has been alleged that he had been seriously assaulted and was 
profusely bleeding. There is no reliable evidence in support of this allegation , 
Such exaggerations are not uncommon among people of this type ; but by itself , 
the exaggeration would not mean that the entire story is false . I might repeat 
that on that very night. Surgari Prasad had made the allegations that the com 
plainant was found asleep and the complainant had tried to assault him , not only 
to the officers of the company but to the complainant himself . There was 00 
reason why Sursari Prasad should have made such false allegations that very night, 

13. Sursari Prasad s evidence on this point has also been corroborated by tho 
evidence of another witness named Yam Bahadur ( Exhibit 15 ) who was on duty 
that night at the manager s bungalow . There is no reason to disbelieve him . 


PART 11 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2367 


The evidence of the Daft in charge ( Exhibit 16 ) and the office Superintendent 
( Exhibit 14 ) also supports the evidence of the complainant. 

14 . We have then the evidence of the manager ( Exhibit 13 ) . He was not in 
headquarters on that night but he returned after 3 or 4 days and learnt about the 
incident. He then called Sursari Prasad , the complainant, and others and ques 
tioned them . He has stated that the complainant admitted before him that he 
had assaulted Sursari Prasad because the latter had removed his lantern . He has 
also said that the complainant requested that he should be pardoned and should 
be allowed to resign . I see no reason to disbelieve the evidence of the Manager . 

15 . The only reason alleged by the complainant as to why this false allegation 
was made against him is that he had joined the labour union and that the manager 
had called him a week before the above incident and threatened him that he 
would take steps to see that he was dismissed within a week and that this was 
because he had joined the union . No such allegation has been made in the com 
plaint nor is there any evidence in support of that allegation . It is unbelievable 
that the manager would threaten the complainant merely because the complainant 
had joined the union . The matter may have been different if the complainant 
was taking an active part in the union work ; but merely because he joined the 
union it is not likely that the manager would threaten him with dismissal nor is 
it likely that merely because of this , the manager would enter into a conspiracy 
and induce his subordinates to make false allegations against the complainant. 

16 . The complainant has examined one Ramsia with whom the complainant 
was then living and he has said that one Ram Swarup went to his quarters and 
asked the complainant to leave the quarters immediately . Ramsla is obviously an 
interested witness . He must have had a soft corner for the complainant, as can be 
seen from the fact that he allowed him to stay with him . Ramsia had also filed a 
complaint under Section 33A against the management. In the circumstances , his 
evidence cannot be said to be entirely disinterested . I do not believe him . 

17 . On the whole , after carefully considering the evidence in the case , I am 
satisfied that the case of the management against the complainant that he was 
found asleep on duty by Sursari Prasad , and that he tried to assault Sursari 
Prasad is true. I am also satisfied that the complainant left the colliery of his 
own accord when he found that action was likely to be taken against him . In 
my opinion , this is not a case of dismissal and hence the management have not 
committed a breach of Section 33 of the Act. Further even if it was a case of 
dismissal, the action of the management would be justified . 

18 . On the whole, the complaint fails and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 
The 11th September 1984 . 

(Sd .) L . P . DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , 

[No. LR - 2 ( 385 ) / V .) 
S . R . O . 3152.- In purguance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Hiralal , a workman of the Kotma Collery . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 23 of 1954 

( arising out of Reference No . 6 of 1052 ) 
In the matter of an application U / $ 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1047 

PRAAT 
Shri L . P . Davo, B . A ., LL , B ., Chairman 

PARTIES 
Hiralal S / o Bhagwandia , Road - gang Cooly . Associated Cement Companio , 
Ltd ., Kotma Colliery , P .O . Kotma, Dt. Shahdol Complainant. 

Va. 
The management of Associated Cement Cos , Ltd ., Kotma Collery , P . O . 

Kotma, Dt. Shahdol, Vindhya Pradesh - Opposito party . 


2368 


TH GAZITTE OF INDIA , OCTOBWR 2, 1984 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


APPARANCH 
Shri R . L . Malviya, President, Chhatisgarh Colllery Workers Federation , 

Manendragarh P . O . Dt. Surguja , Madhya Pradesh - For the complainant. 
Shri R . H . Ranga Rao , Senior Pergonnel Officer , Associated Cement Com 
panico Limited , Bombay - For the opposite party . 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 38A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleged that he was discharged by the opposite party or 
4th October , 1953 during the pendency of Reference No . 8 of 1952 without the 
permission of this Tribunal. After his discharge, the labour union made an 
application to the Conciliation Omcer and the Regional Labour Commissioner ; but 
nothing had come out of the same and hence the complainant Aled the present 
complaint. 

3 . The opposite party contended that the complaint was not maintainable ; that 
there was so dispute , much less an industrial dispute , between the opposite 
party and their workmen and hence the order of reference of Reference No . 6 
of 1952 was bad . They denied that they had discharged the complainant and 
alleged that the complainant had tendered his resignation on 29th September , 
1953 because he wanted to go to his village for cultivating his lands . The 
resignation was accepted by the management on 30th September , 1959, 
The complainant worked till 2nd October, 1953 and his wages were 
paid to him on 4th October , 1959. On 26th October , 1953 the Con 
elllation Omcer forwarded a copy of the letter of the labour union which 
mentioned inter alia " sacking of Hiralal, Road Gang Mate for taking leading 
part in union work without charge -sheet" . The management informed the Con 
ciliation Officer that their records showed that there was no Road Gang Mate 
named Hiralal. The complainant was Road Gang Coolie . It was finally urged 
that the complaint should be dismissed . 

4 . Two preliminary objections were raised by Mr, Ranga Rao on behalf of the 
opposite party . The first wag that there was no dispute , much less an industrial 
dispute , between the opposite party and their workmen regarding giving of paid 
holidays on the Independence Day and the Republic Day and hence the order of 
Reference in Reference No . 6 of 1952 was bad at least so far as the opposite 
party was concerned . This point was raised by the opposite party in some other 
eomplaints ( under Section 33A ) Aled against them by some other employees. I 
have considered this point in my awards in applications Nos. 26 of 1954 and 
64 of 1954 and come to the conclusion that this contention cannot be accepted . 
For the same reasons as mentioned in these cases, I hold that this contention 
cannot be accepted . 


5 . The second preliminary objection raised by Mr. Ranga Rao on behalf of 
the opposite party was that the present complaint has been Aled after an unreason 
able delay and should therefore be dismissed . As held in the case of General 
Motors ( India ) Limited , 1954 , Vol. I, LL. J ., p . 676 , a complaint under Section 33A 
should ordinarily be Aled during the pendency of proceedings before a Tribunal 
and if it is filed after the pendency of these proceedings, it should be filled within 
a reasonable time. The award in Reference No. 6 of 1952 was published in the 
Gazette of India , dated 10th October , 1953 and hence under Section 20 ( 3 ) read 
with Section 17A of the Industrial Disputes Act, the proceedings in the above 
reference must be deemed to have concluded from 10th November , 1953 . The 
present complaint has been filed on 1st March 1954 , i, e , more than 3 months 
after the proceedings in the above reference were concluded . The complainant 
is alleged to have been dismissed on 3rd October 1953 . That would mean that the 
present complaint has been filed about five months after his dismissal. On the 
face of it . the delay appears to be unreasonable . 


6 . It is true that the complainant has alleged in his complaint that the labour 
union had made an application to the Conciliation Officer and the Regional Labour 
Commissioner in connection with his dismissal and that though the Conclllation 
Officer paid two visits to the colliery for holding conciliation proceedings, nothing 
had happened in the matter and hence he Alled the present complaint. The 
opposite party has stated that the grievance made by the labour union related 
to the alleged dismissal of Hiralal, a Road Gang Mate and that they had no Road 
Gang Mate of such name, and they informed the Conciliation Officer accordingly . 
It appears that a copy of the letter of the management in this connection was 
sent to the Labour Union who offered their comments sometime in November 


PART II - SEC 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


236 


1953 There is nothing to show as to whether any conciliation proceedings were 
held thereafter There is nothing to show that there was any reasonable ground 
for the complainant to have not taken any action at least after November 1953 
when he learnt that the management denied that they had a road gang mate 
named Hiralal In my opinion , therefore, the present complaint is filed aiter an 
unreasonable delay and must be dismissed 

7 On merits , the complainant s case is that he had joined a procession organised 
by the labour Union on 3rd October 1953 On the next day , ie on 4th October 
1953, while he was on his way to attend his duties , he was informed by one Ram 
Swarup Singh that he should not go to attend his duties as the manager had 
stated that he was not to be allowed to join his duties He has further alleged 
that sometime after this the manager came there and told him that as he had 
taken part in the procession of the labour union , his services were not required 
and he should hand over all articles belonging to the colliery and vacate his 
quarters He then went to the office of the Union and informed the office bearers 
about what had happened and they advised him to return the company s articles 
and to vacate the quarters Accordingly he handed over all the articles and 
vacated the quarters He also accepted his wages that were due to him upto 
2nd October 1953 He however urged that he was not willing to do so , but as 
he was threatened , that is why he accepted the wages 

8 Or the other hand , the management s case is that the compla nant had 
tendered hs resignation on 29th September 1953 and it was accepted by the 
manager on 30th September , 1953 The letter of the resignation has been pro 
duced at Exhibit 10 The complainant has admitted that the signature on this 
appears to be his but he said that he was unable to remember as to how he had 
put the signature thereon In this connection I may also mention that the 
complainant is not sure about his own signatures For instance he at first 
denied that the signature on voucher No 472 was his , but when it was explained 
to him that it was for payment of wages due to hm he admitted t : at the 
signature was his It is true that the management have not produced any direct 
evidence to show that this letter of resignation was signed by the com ? ainant or 
that he did so voluntarily But looking to the circumstances in the case , I do 
not believe the complainant s case that he was dismissed on 4th October , 1953 , 
I believe that he left the colliery in pursuance of a resignation which he had 
already tendered on 29th September , 1953 

9 We have the evidence of the manager , Exhibit 15 , who has said that this 
letter of resignation came to him along with other papers on 30th September 1953 
and he passed an order on that very day asking the cashier to pay all ine dues 
of the complainant In other words, not only was this letter given to the manager 
before 3rd October, 1953 but an order had already been passed by the manager 
on 30th September 1953 It is to be remembered that according to the case of 
the compla nant, he was dismissed because he took part in a procession organised 
by the labour union on 3rd October 1953 Befo , that date the management had 
no grievance against the complainant There was no reason why a false letter 
should have been got up on 25th September 1953 or olders pascad on 30th 
September , 1953 thereon Though the above letter has not been strictly proved , 
there can be no doubt that orders nad been passed in t " hiee day before the 
procession on 3rd October, 1953 accepting his res gnation 

10 We have then to remember that the compainant almits that returned 
all the articles of the company and vacated his quart r , suon afrer r October 
1953 He also admits that he accepted all the wages due to h n volo ad Oriober , 
1953 If he had not tendered his resignation, he would not have cona SO 
According to nis case , he had been summarily dismissed on to o trhl 1953 
because he took an active part in the proc . sinonerd Octob 1953 I “ has 
been further alleged that he had oun dssau + doi tih October 1ngout tne 
instance of the manager If ths was so I do not th n that he would have 
voluntarily and willingly returned citirles be on into the romany or 
vacated tie quarters quietly or tak 37 iwav alhs dues ror is it lik } t at the 
office bearers of the union would have adviced him to 119 So This conduct on 
his part is inconsistent with his allngu ions but is consistent with the manage 
ment s case that he had tendered his resignation 

11 The complainant has examined one Ramsla at Exhibit 11, who has said 
that the manager told Hiralal in his presence to vacate the quarters and when 
Hiralal said that he should be given notice the manager called his peon and asked 
him to beat Hiralal Hiralal himself has not paid anything about the beating 
or about the manager having asked the peon to beat him Ramsia is not a dis 
interested witness He had already been given a notice on 1st October , 1953. 


2370 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[PART II — Sec . 3 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


He was subsequently paid up his dues upto 15th October , 1953. IIe had also Aled 
a complaint before this Tribunal (but later on it was compromised ) . His state 
ment about dates on which Hiralal was paid up his dues also shows that he 
cannot be believed . lle has said that Hirala ! was paid on 5th October , 1953 and 
that he himself was paid up 4 or 5 days thereafter . The vouchers show that the 
payments were made to both of them on the same day namely on 8th October , 
1953 . 

12 . It may then be noted that there is an important discrepency between the 
evidence of Hiralal and Ramsia about the place where the above incident took 
place . Hiralal has said that it was ncar thc petrol godown while Ramsia said 
that the incident took place near the motor garage which is at a distance of about 
a furlong from the potrol godown , I may also mention that though the com 
plain it was working as a Road Gang Coolie , Ramsia has stated that he was a 
Road Cang Mate . On the whole I do not believe the evidence of Ramsia nor 
of the complainant. 

13 . It may then be noted that according to Hiralal, several other persons were 
present when the manager asked him that his services were not required but 
none of them has been examined . It was argued on his behalf that there was 
no reion for him to resign because he had no lands and because he had a father 
and brothers who could look after the lands. He has however admitted that 
when he had first joined the colliery, he had worked for about three ycars and 
then went home and returned after a year ; that is , he remained at home for one 
year. This would go to show that he had some work which required his presence 
at home and it is not unlikely that he would tender his resignation . 

14 . It may also be noted that the only reason allcged as to why the complainant 
was dismissed was that he had taken part in a procession on 3rd October , 1953. 
Very many people had taken part in that procession and it is nobody s case that 
all of them were dismissed . There is no reason why the complainant should have 
been singled out. It is not his allegation that he was taking an active part in 
trade union activities . It is therefore unlikely that he should have been dis 
missed merely because he took part in a procession . 

15 . On the whole , I do not believe the complainant s case that he was dis 
missed 0 :1 4th October , 1953. I believe the opposite party s case that the com 
plainant had tendered his resignation on 29th September , 1953 and left the collicry 
because his resignation had been accepted by the opposite party The opposite 
party has thus not committed a breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. The complaint therefore ſails and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

(Sd.) L . P . DAVE, Chairman . 
The 10th September , 1954 . 

Central Govt. s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No. LR - 2 (365) /VI. ] 
S . R . O . 3163.- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV o 1947) , the Central Government hcrcby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Suiva Sri Saran Singh and Indradco Singh , workmen of the 
Loyabad Colliery . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 4 OF 1954 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of an application U / S 33A of the Industrial Disputes Art 1947 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave , B . A ., L .L .B . - Chairman 

PARTIES 
1. Saran Singh and 2 . Indradeo Singh , Chaprasies, Loyabad Colliery , Loyabad , 

P . O . Bansjora - Complainants. 


Vs. 


Messrs. Burrakur Coal Co . Ltd ., Loyabad Colliery , P . O . Bansjora , Dt. Man 

bhum , Bihar - Opposite party . 


- 


PART II - SEC, 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 2371 
= = = = = = = 

= = = = = 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary , Loyabad Labour Union , P .O . Banjora , 

Dt. Manbhum - For the complainants . 
Shri D . N . Gupta , Chief Personnel Officer, Messrs . Bird & Co. Ltd ., P , O . 
Sijua , Dt. Manbhum - For the opposite party . 

AWARD 


This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleged that during the pendency of reference No. 6 of 
1952 , the opposite party retrenched them from 27th August, 1953 without the 
permission of this Tribunal, It is also alleged that the ground of retrenchment 
was not true and that the complainants had reason to believe that it was because 
they were members of the Loyabad Labour Union , while the management was 
supporting another union at the colliery, that they were retrenched . 

3 . The opposite party contended that they had not committed a breach of 
Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , as they had obtained permission from 
this Tribunal on 12th May, 1953 for discharging nine workmen including the 
present complainants , under application No. 48 of 1953 One rice godown of the 
colliery was closed and that is why the complainants services were terminated . 
The allegation that they were discharged because of their union activities is not 
correct. 


4 . Tlie complainants werc working as chaprasis (watchmen ) at rice godown 
No 4 . They were discharged ( retrenched ) from service in September 1953 on the 
ground that they were surplus to the requirements of the management. They 
have therefore filed the present complaint on 14th January , 1954. The award in 
Reference No . 6 of 1952 was published in the Gazette of India , dated the 10th 
October , 1953 and hence under Section 20 ( 3 ) read with Section 17A of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, the proceedings in that case must be deemed to have concluded 
from 10th November , 1953. In other words, the present complaint has been filed 
more than two months after the proceedings had concluded and about four months 
after the discharge of the complainants from service. 

5 . Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, which gives a right to an employee 
who has been aggricved by the action of the employer in contravening the provi 
sions of Section 33 to make a complaint, does not in express terms lay down the 
period during which he should make it ; but it does not give him a right to make 
it after an indefinite period . It is implicit in the section that the complaint must 
be made within a reasonable time of the act complained of. The true 
position would be that a complaint under this section must be made as 
far as possible during the pendency of the proceedings and if it is made after 
such pendency , it should be made within reasonable time. Sce the decision of 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case of General Motors (India ) Ltd ., 1954 , 
Vol. I , L . L . J ., p . 676 . It is true that this was a case under Section 23 of the 
Industrial Disputes ( Appolate Tribunal) Act, 1950 ; but that section is similar to 
Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act and the principles laid down in the 
above case would also be applicable to the present case . 

6 . As I mentioned above , the present complaint has been filed more than two 
months after the proceedings in Reterence No . 6 of 1952 had concluded and about 
four months after the discharge of the complainants . The delay, in my opinion . 
1s unreasonable. No reason has been alleged to why the complainants did not file 
a complaint earlier . The complaint is therefore liable to be dismissed on thi 
ground . 

7 . Apart from this , the opposite party s casc is that they did not commit a 
breach of Section 33 of the Act because they had obtained permission of this 
Tribunal for discharging the complainants . It appears that the opposite party 
filed application No. 48 of 1953 before this Tribunal, requesting permission to 
discharge ten chaprasis mentioning therein the present two complainants . In that 
application , it was mentioncd that the persons sought to be retrenched were 
represented by Burrakur Coal Company Mazdoor Sangh , Loyabad Colliery , and a 
notice was issued to that labour union , The Secretary filed a written statement 
opposing the application . Later on , when the matter came up for hearing. It was 
agreed that nine chaprasies should be retrenched . The employer also gave an 
assurance that these chaprasis would be absorbed at such a time as vacancies 


2372 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1934 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


occurred and they would be given the Arst chance of accepting the same. After 
this and after hearing the parties, the Tribunal gave permission to the manage 
ment to discharge nine chaprasis including the present two complainants , as the 
Tribunal was satisfied that retrenchment was necessary as a result of a temporary 
department being closed . 

8 . It was argued on behalf of the complainants that they were not informed 
of the above application and that the Burrakur Coal Company Mazdoor Sangh 
had 20 right to represent them , and hence the permission given by this Tribunal 
was vold . I do not agree with this contention . Section 33 of the Act prohibits an 
employer from discharging a workman during the pendency of proceedings before 

Tribunal without the express permission in writing from the Tribunal and 
Section 33A would apply only if the employer has committed a breach of Section 
33 of the Act. If an employer obtains permission from a Tribunal, it could not 
be said that he had committed a breach of Section 33 of the Act by discharging 
the workmen , even though it may turn out that the permission was not obtained 
properly . Even if the correct procedure was not followed before granting the 
permission or even if the permission was granted ex parte , it would still be a 
valid permission and it could not be said that the employer had 
committed a breach of Section 33 if he discharged a workman in pursuance 
of such a permission . See the cases of Kamla Mills Limited , and their workmen , 
1951, Vol. II, L . L . J ., p . 519 and Associated Cement Companies Limited , 1953, 
Vol. II, L . L . J ., p . 395 . I therefore hold that there has been 110 breach of 
Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act and the present complaint would not 
be maintainable. 

9 . Even if the complaint was maintainable , I think it would fall on merits . 
The complainants were discharged in the month of September 1953 on the ground 
that they were surplus to the requirements of the management. Admittedly they 
were working as chaprasis at rice godown No , 4 , Complainant No. 2 has admitted 
in his deposition that the rice in godowi No. 4 was shifted to rice godown No. 6 
and godown No . 4 was closed . This would mean that the chaprasis serving at 
godown No 4 became surplus to thc requirements of the management and the 
management were cntitled to retrench them . 

10 . It was urged that persons junior to the complainants were continued in 
Service and also that after the retrenchment of the complainants , new people were 
taken up without a chance being given to the complainants . The only instance 
alleged of a person who was junior to the complainants being retained in service 
is that of Ajodhya Prasad . There is however nothing beyond the bare word of 
the complainant No . 2 on this point. No allegation was made about this in the 
complaint and the opposite party could not therefore produce evidence to disprove 
this allegation , 

11. It was then alleged that one Mahabir , who was a new man , has been 
appointed as a chaprası after the complainants were discharged . That post how 
ever appcars to be a temporary one and the complainant No. 2 stated in his 
deposition that he was not prepared to work in that post. He has also admitted 
that no other new man was recruited to the post of a chaprası. He never wrote 
any letter to the opposite party about people junior to him having continued in 
service or new people being taken up nor did he give an application about it 
even to his own union . I am not satisfied that these allegations of the com 
plalzants that people junior to them were retained in service and that new people 
Were taken up in scrvice subsequently are correct. 

12 . The result is that in my opinion the dischargc of the complainants was 
bonafide and was necessary in view of the fact that a particular godown wag 
closed . There is no evidence to show that the management were actuated by any 
Improper motives . The complainants have referred to some incident which took 
place in tlie Colliery in June 1453 . It is liowever to be noted that long before this , 
the management had approached this Tribunal and obtained permission from it to 
discharge not vuly the present complainants but seven others . I therefore do not 
believe that the management was dituated by improper motives . Thus their 
discharge was both bonafide and proper and justified in this case , Hence even if 
the opposite party had committed u breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act and even if the complaint did not fall on the ground of unreasonable delay , 
it would fạil on merits also . 

13. On the whole , the complaint fails and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

(Sd .) L . P . DAVE, Chairman . 

Central Govt. s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 
The 13th September , 1954 . 

[No. LR -2 ( 365 ) /VII.] 


1 , : ti - Sc! :) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCT ! RU H * * 


323 


New Delhi, the 24th September 1964 
S . R . O . 3154 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the Bombay 
Port Trust and their workmen . 
BEFORE SHRI M . R . MEHER , I.C .S . (Retd ) , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

REFERENCE ( IT - CG ) No. 3 OF 1954 

ADJUDICATION 

BETWEEN 
BOMBAY PORT TRUST, BOMBAY 


AND 

THEIR WORKMEN 
In the matter of an industrial dispute re ; new shifts , working hours , timings of 
shifts, weekly off - days, working hours on Saturdays, etc . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri H , M . Seerwai instructed by Shri J . P . Thakkar of Messrs , Mulla and Mulla 

& Cragic Blunt and Caroe Solicitors and Shri S . D . Nariman - Sor the 

Port Trust. 
Shri Sushil Kavalekar with Dr. Shanti Patel and Shri Shantaram Ansurkar , 

Gencral Secretary and Asstt. Secretary , Bombay Port Trust Employees 
Union - for the workmen . 

AWARD 
This is a reference by the Central Government by its notification No. LR . 3 ( 3 ) / 54 , 
dated the 28th April, 1954, for adjudication of an industrial dispute between the 
Bombay Port Trust and their workinen li respect of the following matters: 
1 . Whether the changes introduced by the Port Trust in regard to the 

new shifts, working hours , timings of shifts, weekly off -days, work 
ing hours on Saturdays and rest intervals , are fair and reasonable ; 
if not, in what respects modifications are necessary, and what relief 

should be granted to the workmen , and from what date ; 
2 . Whether the workmen should be paid compensation for the loss of over 

time payments which they have been receiving in the past ; 
3 . Whether the workmen , like Crane - drivers and Greasers , who have been 

demoted from higher posts from 1st December , 1953, should be re 

stored to their original posts ; and 
4 . whether the workmen , who were cntitled to promotion to higher posts 

but who were not promoted by reason of their refusal to work accord 

ing to the changed system should be promoted to such posts . 
A notice to file a statement of claim was issued to the Bombay Port Trust 
Employees Union , and the Port Trust was requested to display prominently a 
notice with its translations requiring such of the workmen who did not desire to 
be represented by the union to Ale a statement of claim either individually or 
through a registered union . On behalf of the workmen the Bombay Port Trust 
Employees Union has filled the statement of claim . No separate statement of 
claim was filed by any other union or individual workmen . In the statement 
filed by the Bombay Port Trust Employees Union (hereinafter referred to as the 
union ) the circumstances leading to the dispute are set out. The Port Trust has , 
in its written statement in reply to the statement of claim , disputed some of the 
facts allcgcd by the union in its statement of claim and it will be convenient to 
set out a summary of the respective statements before dealing specifically with 
the merits of the dispute about the four matters referred to me for adjudication . 

2 . The dispute concerns employees in the engineering department of the Port 
Trust (except the dredging flotilla section ) . The number of workmen concerned 
in the d spute is about 7, 800 The Central Government made the Minimum Wages 
Act , 1948, and the Minimum Wages ( Central) Rules applicable to certain cate 
gories of workers with cffcct from 15th March 1951 as per a notification issued 
on the 7th March , 1951. By a second notification the Act and the Rules were 
applied to certain other categories of employers in the Port Trust with effect 
from the 29th March 1952 . The union has stated that the Port Trust did not 
Implement the provisions in the Act relating to hours of work , weekly day of 


2374 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


[ PART II-- Sec, 3 


rest and overtime work and tried to get exemption with retrospective effect from 
the application of the Minimum Wages Act and the Rules . In the mean time a 
few test cases were filed under the Minimum Wages Act to recover the wages 
and in an application Misc . No . 135 of 1953 filed in the High Court by a points 
man employed in the Port Trust Railway for a writ of mandamus directing the 
Port Trust to give weekly holidays to the petitioner , the High Court while 
rejecting the petition for a writ of Mandamus on grounds of delay, etc ., observed 
as follows : 
" The attitude taken up by the Port Trust on this question is , to say the 

lcast, far from satisfactory . It is not possible for me to part with 
the matter without stating that by their failure to implement this 
beneficient and very modest but essential and urgent requirement of 
the workmen to have weekly holiday the first Respondents have been 
guilty of inertia and indifference in a manner which is most sur 
prising in these times of progressive labour legislation . It is not a 
slight or trivial matter . The contention raised by the Respondents 
and seriously pressed before me was that it was not clearly incumbent 
on the Respondents to accede to this demand of the workmen , It is 
a deplorable case of the Respondents wanting to avail of any plea 

justifiable or otherwise ." 
Ultimately Government declined to give exemption to the Port Trust from the 
application of the Minimum Wages Act and Rules , and directed the Chalrman of 
the Port Trust to give effect to the provisions of the law without further delay . 
The Chairman called the representatives of various unions on 9th July , 1953 
and promised them that arrangements would be made to implement the Act and 
the Rules and to pay arrears of overtime wages to the employecs . The Port Trust , 
however , made drastic changes in the conditions of work of the workmen without 
any notice to or in consultation with labour " as if to take revenge against them " . 
The changes were made without taking the permission of the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal before whom appeals against two awards of Shri S . FI, Naik , Industrial 
Tribunal, were pending. The union wrote a letter dated 28th July , 1953 ( Ex . 
U / 6 ) complaining of a change in the weekly off on Sunday in some depurtments . 
The Port Trust by its letter dated 21st September 1953 (Ex , U / 7 ) denloj that 
any fundamental chango in the weekly off had been effected and drew the 
attention ot the union to rule 10 (b ) ( 1) and ( iv ) of the Rules and Regulations for 
non - scheduled statt . These rules are as follows: 
" (i ) Subject to the provision in sub -clause ( ii ) of clause ( a ) above , all 

employees except those mentioned in sub - clause ( 1) of clause ( a ) 
above, will be allowed a weekly off on a Sunday or any other day 

in the week . 
" ( iv ) The employees governed by the Factories Act, 1948 , and the Minimum 

Wagcs Act, 1948 , will be eligible for an off -day in accordance with 

the provisions of those Acts . 
In the letter it was further pointed out, 
" Sunday has not been Axed as a weekly ofl for all categories of staff in 

the Bombay Port Trust, as assumed by you . For example , watchmen 
do not get a weekly off on Sundays, but on any other day during 
the week , Similarly , the stafl governed by the factories Act are 

given offs during the weck , if they have to work on Sunday " 
The union has complained that the rules and regulations were introduced during 
the adjudication proceedings before the Labour Appellate Tribunal and without 
ttg permission . On 17th November , 1953 the General Secretary signed an agree 
mant with the Port Trust with regard to one section of the workers in the 
engineering department, viz ., the mobile crane section ( Ex . U / 10 ) . By clause i 
of that greement the weekly holiday was to be Sunday except in the case of 
such of the staff as were called upon to work on that day and they were to be 
gives a substituted weekly lioliday as prescribed in rule 23 of the Minimum Wgees 

Central) Rules, 1950 and that this substituted holiday was to be intimated to 
them 11 was further agree that the fallure of the mobile crune stati to report 
for duty on Sunday the 15th November , 1953 should be excused as a special case 
and that day should be treated as a weekly holiday given to them With regard 
to abstention from work by the mobile crane stafl on the 16th November 1953 
the Chief Engineer undertook to recommend to the Chairman that to maintain 
the continuity of their services the abstention from duty on that day should 
be treated as leave without pay . By a clause in the agreement the union reserved 


PART 11SFC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2375 


its right to make a representation with regard to clausc i referred to above . 
The union has stated that it agreed to these terms because the Port Trust agreed 
to withdraw the system of staggering holiday for a crtain period and tie union 
was given a right of representation . On tlie 2nd December 1953 ttlin on wrote 
expressing its continued opposition to the change and by a further later dated 
101h April, 1954 ( Ex . U / 11 ) ( ancelled the agrement ( Ex , U / 10 ) : the 19th 
Deccmber 1953 the union wrote to the Port Trust ( vidc Ex , U / 14 ) protesting 
against the introduction of a system of three shifts and changes in th hours of 
work , whereby night work would be a permanent feature and it fullhop stated 
that the replacing of the system of giving a wcekly off on Sunday was detri 
mental to the interests of the workers. The union has stated that it received no 
reply to this letter ( Ex . U / 14 ) . Regarding the changes made in the hours of duty 
the union has complained that labourers were made aware of the orilna s only a 
day prior to their being brought into force . In the Arst order dated 10th Decem 
ber , 1953 different dates were given for different sections for implementation of 
the Minimum Wages Act. With regard to Sunday off the change was notifed as 
follows: 
" As regards giving offs , the officer concerned will notify on his notice board 

at 8 A . M , on every Saturday the ticket Nos. of all the cmployees who 
are to attend the work on Sunday and the off day for all such staff 
should also be notified for that week . As soon as this notice is put 
on thc Board , the of days should be marked with a letter O in the 
Muster Book If the stair concerned do not turn up for work on 
Sunday they should be marked absent on that Sunday. The staff on 

off as noted on Muster should not be taken on duty on that day. " 
By the second and third orders the hours of work were changed and shift 
systems were introduced . These hours were so awkward that it was not possible 
for the workmen to report at these hours, without undergoing physical strain and 
financial loss . Meanwhile the Chief Labour Commissioner came to Bombay and 
conciliation proceedings took place before him . The union has complcined in 
para . 18 of its statement of claim that the settlement proposals made by the Chief 
Labour Commissioner were not acceptable to the Port Trust and the conciliation 
failed . 


3. The Port Trust has in its written statement stated that the referrnce made 
in the union s statement of claim to the test cases Aled before the Authority under 
the Minimum Wages Act and to the proceedings in the Bombay High Court is 
irrelevant and has no bearing on the issues referred to this Tribunal for adjudica 
tion . The only changes made by the Port Trust were changes in the timing of 
the hours of work which were necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions 
of the Minimum Wages Act and the Rules . Rule 24 ( 1 ) provides that the number 
of hours which shall constitute a normal working day shall be, in the case of an 
adult, 9 hours . Rule 24 ( 2 ) of the said Rules provides that the working day of an 
adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest, if any , 
it shall not be spread over for more than 12 hours . To comply with these provi 
sions it was necessary to introduce a shift system of work wherever the spread 
over of working hours exceeded 12 and for this purpose the Port Trust employed 
a large number of additional staff at an additional cost of about Rs. 20 lakhs per 
annum . [ During the course of the hearing it was stated that the expenditure was 
Rs. 15 lacs and not Rs. 20 lacs. ( Vide Ex , C / 7 ) where the figure is worked out 
at Rs. 157 lacs . ] In the past several of the workmen used to work in a shift com 
mencing at 5 - 30 P . M . and ending at 8 A . M . the following day . This work is now 
divided into two shifts , the first working from 4 P . M . to midnight and the 
second shift from midnight to 8 A . M . The introduction of this system has helped 
to do away with former practice of most of the workmen working on nivertime 
basis sometimes for as long as 16 hours and in some cases even 24 to 48 hours. 
In the revised working hours , the hours of the day shift have been retained as 
before. As an appeal was pending before the Labour Appellate Tribunal from 
thc awards of Siri S . H . Naik , Industrial Tribunal, in the matter of certain disputes 
between the Port Trust and its employers in the engineering department, the staff 
which had been working in the day shiit continued to bc employed exrlusively in 
the duy shift so as not to give rise to any grievance that the conditions Op loyees 
concerned in the dispute had been altered to their prejudice and all work in the 
second and third shifts was done by workmen who in the past had been imployed 
in the night shift or by workmen recruited on the express understanding that they 
would be employed for the night shift. At the time of hearing, however, it was 
stated on behalf of the Port Trust that there was an inaccuracy in the statement 
and that though orders to that effect had been issued , in the Alexandra Dork oil 
pipe section , the Pir Pau oil pipe section , barges and flotillas of the general work 
shop and the Northern division general works, the sectional heads considered it 


2376 


THE CAZUTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1054 


(PART TI - Sec, 3 


risky to entrust the work to entirely new hands and so some of the old workmen 
were put on night work , but this is being set right and the concerned workmen 
were being posted back to the day shift . The Port Trust has stated that it is 
ready and willing to retake all the workmen in the three shifts . Under Regulation 
13 ( ii ) it more than one shift is worked the workmen are liable to be transferred 
from one shift to another . The Port Trust has denied that the changes were 
introduced in a spirit of vengeance as alleged by the union and has urged that in 
order to apply the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act to the employees it went 
out of its way to extend the benefit of the Act with retrospective effect from the 
15th March 1951 even to categories of cmployees in respect of whom the Minimum 
Wages Act had been applied by Government only with effect from the 29th March 
1952. It also extended the benefit of the Act to thc workmen who had not been 
notiflcd by Government under the said Act. Large amounts were received by 
the workmen on account of overtime allowance , computed in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act, with retrospective effect from 15th March 1951 . The Port 
Trust has also denied that the union was not consulted in the matter of the intro 
duction of the new system of work , introduced for implementing the Minimum 
Wages Act . Under the direction of the Chairman , the Chief Engineer invited the 
General Secretary of the union for a discussion of the matter but the latter refused 
to accept the basis of the altered system so it was fruitless to pursue the matter 
further. ( This was, however , denied by the General Secretary of the Union 
during the hcaring ) . The revised system of work had to be introduced expedi 
tiously as delay would have meant continued breach of the Minimum Wages Act 
and the Rules. The Port Trust has stated that the permission of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal was not necessary for introducing the revised system of work 
as it did not involve alterations in the conditions of service of work to their 
prejudice. The Port Trust was advised by the Attorney -General of India that 
none of the changes in the work luuld be said to constitute any alteration of the 
conditions of service of workmen and prior permission of the Labour Appcllate 
Tribunal was not necessary. The allegation of the union that all workmen , 
except watchmen , used to have their weekly off on Sundays is denied and it is 
stated that the operating staff in the clectrical, hydraulic , mobile cranes, hydraulic 
pumping station and oil pipe line sections used to work regularly on all Sundays 
without a compensatory day off during the weck . In the establishments of the 
engineering department of the Port Trust which are governed by the Factorics 
Act the workers have always been given a weekly day off on any day of the week 
and not necessarily on Sunday. The Rules and Regulations for the non - scheduled 
staff were sanctioned by Trustees of the Port Trust on the 5th February 1952 and 
received the approval of the Central Government under the proviso to section 22 
of the Bombay Port Trust Act on the 7th April 1952. Thus the Rules and Regula 
tions were approved before the flling of the appeal before the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal. These Rules and Regulations were framed and compiled as requried 
by the provisions of the Port Trust Act 1879 and also in compliance with an order 
of the Government of India dated 7th January 1949 made under the provisions of 
the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act, 1946 . These Rules and 
Regulations did not introduce any new conditions of service but brought together 
in one pamphlet all existing Rules and Regulations and in cases where there were 
no Rules and Regulations in force relating to any of the matters set out in the 
Schedule to the Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act, 1946 , the provi 
sions contained in the Model Standing Orders in Schedule I to the Industrial 
Employment ( Standing Orders ) Central Rules were adopted , 

4 . With regard to the agreement ( Ex . U / 10 ) between the union and the Port 
Trust with regard to the workmen in the mobile crane section the Port Trust has 
stated that about 123 workmen of the mobile crane section , Alexandra Dock , who 
turned up for duty on the 6th December 1953 resorted to a sit down strikc even 
though the proceedings before the Labour Appellate Tribunal were then pending 
and so the strike was illegal. They refused to work on Sundays with a compen 
satory off day during the weck unless they were paid for work on Sunday at double 
the ordinary rate of wages. The Chief Engineer of the Port Trust discussed the 
matter with the General Secretary of the union and as a result the agreement (Ex. 
U / 10 ) was reached . By the agrecment the union agreed to the staggering of the 
weekly holidays . The union has sought to take advantage of a clause in the agree 
ment whereby it reserved its right to make a representation in the matter and it 
unilaterally cancelled the agreement. As the Port Trust had carried out the only 
condition which had been attached to the agreement, viz ., that the implementation 
of the change regarding the weekly off should be postponed till 6th December 
1953. the purported cancellation by the union of the agrecment was unjustified 
and ineffective. With regard to the complaint of the union that its letter dated 
19th December 1953 had remained unreplied the Port Trust has pointed out that 
after the letter was received there were discussions between the Chief Labour 


PAN 


114SIC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCT 


* 


, 


377 


Commissioner and the representatives of the Port Trust and on 13th February 
1954 the union sent a letter to the Chairman purporting to contain the minutes of 
the discussions and the Port Trust replied by its letter dated 25th March 1954 
( Ex . U / 23 ) pointing out certain misstatements in the union s letter dated the 13th 
February 1954. No reply was received to this communication . The Post Trust 
has therefore stated that the grievance made by the union that its memorandum 
dated 19th December 1953 had remained unreplied is not understood . As regards 
the allegation that Jabour was made aware of the orders only a day prior to their 
implementation it is pointed out that every attempt was made to come to a settle 
ment with the union but the efforts proved unsuccessful. The allegation that the 
proposals for settlement made by the Chief Labour Commissioner were not 
accepted by the Port Trust and so the conciliation proceedings failed is denied , 
The Chief Labour Commissioner recommended to the Port Trust certain changes 
in te timings in the hours of work in the dry dock . The suggestion was imme 
diately accepted by the Port Trust and carried into effect . The Chief Labour 
Commissioner felt that pcrhaps the permission of the Labour Appellate Tribunal 
was necessary to the introduction of the changes, but the Port Trust obtaincd the 
opinion of the Attorney General of India , who has advised that the proposed 
chaliges could not be regarded as in any way constituting an alteration in condi 
tions of service to the prejudice of the workmen . The Port Trust has further 
stated that it is the union which did not accept the Chief Labour Commissioner s 
recommendations. 

5 . Both in the statement of claim as well as in the written statement of the 
Port Trust reference has been made to the proceedings before the conciliator . I 
have borne in mind the views expressed by their Lordships of the Labour Appollate 
Tribunal in the cuse of the Associated Electrical Industries ( India ) Limitcd ( 1954 
VI L . L . J . p . 790 at p . 791 ) about the use that can be made of proceedings before a 
conciliator . But in the present case both the parties have sought to rely on what 
transpired before the conciliator and both the parties have requested that the letter 
of the conciliator to the Government of India (Ex , U / 19 ) should be taken into 
consideration , I have therefore taken these matters including this letter into con 
sideration , subject of course to the proposition which cannot be contested that 
parties cannot be pinned aown with offers made by them in conciliation pro 
ceedings . 

6 . In the statement of claim the union asked for certain information in the 
nature of discovery ) . On behalf of the Port Trust it was stated that the informa 
tion asked for in respect of some items was irrelevant; the Port Trust objected to 
production of its correspondence with the Ministry of Transport; and as regards 
some items of information it would take some months to prepare. The application 
of the union was fixed for a chamber hearing at an early stage of the proceeding 
and an arrangement satisfactory to both sides was arrived at. The Port Trust 
agreed to supply before the date of hearing information in respect of certain items. 
With regard to the rest of the items it was agreed that if in the course of hearing 
the Tribunal considered that the information was necessary the Port Trust would 
supply it . 

7. It will now be convenient to deal in detail with the four matters referred 
for adjudication , the first of which is : -- 


“ Whether the changes introduced by the Port Trust in regard to the new 

shifts , working hours , timings of shifts, weekly off days , working 
hours on Saturdays and rest intervals , are fair and reasonable ; if not. 
in what respects modifications are necessary , and what relief should 

be granted to the workmen , and from what date ." 
The revised working hours in the different sections of the engineering depart 
ment and the working hours before the changes were made are shown in detail 
in annexure A to the written statement of the Port Trust, from which it is seen 
that in most of the sections of the engineering department the first shift hours 
were from 8 A . M . to 5 - 30 P . M , and the second shift hours from 5 - 30 P . M . to 8 A . M . 
the next day . In some departments there was nominally only one shift from 
8 A M . to 5 - 30 PM . but the said statt continued by turns to work during the next 
shift, so that many a workman worked for in excess of the normal working day 
but carned overtime for work beyond the normal duty hours . There was no 
system of weekly ofl. The bringing into effect the important provisions of the 
Minimum Wages Act and Rules with regard to ( a ) restricting the spread over of 
the working day to 12 hours , ( 2 ) giving weekly offs to staff necessitated the 
increase in the number of shifts and additional staff had to be appointed wherever 
the existing staff were working beyond 12 hours or were working without a 
weekly rest. The Port Trust has pointed out that wherever the timings of work 


2378 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[ PART II - SEC, & 


were from 8 AM , to 5 - 30 P . M . from Monday to Friday and 8 A . M . to 1 P . M , On 
Saturdays woich did not infringe the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act and 
Rules the same have been retained and changes have been made only where the 
hours of duty exceeded 12 which would infringe the provisions of the said Act. 
The union s complaint in the statement of claim is on the following ( 1 ) night 
work as a permanent feature , ( 2 ) awkward timings of shifts , ( 3 ) no rest intervals 
for specified period , ( 4 ) discontinuation of Saturday as a half day off , ( 5 ) depriva 
tion of the fixed day of weekly rest on Sunday . The union points out that night 
work is irksomc and much more onerous than day work . It has referred to 
opinions of various writers and of committees on night work being more deleterious 
than day work . It is pointed out that in addition to the non -availability and 
paucity of transport the night workmen have to undergo other inconveniences . If 
they can reach home at an unusual hour they are not able to have a bath before 
taking food or retiring to bed because it would disturb the sleep of members of 
the family . Living as workers do in one room tenements they do not have sound 
sleep during the day as easily as at night owing to street noises and the sounds 
inseparable from the carrying on of household routine. The union has submitted 
that " it is not necessary to resort to night work in the way in which the Port Trust 
has done by adopting the new change" and that if night shifts are essential no 
shift should start or end between 9 P . M . and 8 A . M . It points out that wages were 
fixed for workmen in Port Trust without reference to the factor of night work . It 
has further pointed out that it was agreed in 1948 between the Port Trust and the 
union that night shift workers in the hydraulic establishment section work for 
6 hours, i.e ., from 5 - 30 P. M . to 12 midnight with a rest from 8 to 8 - 30 P . M . though 
the pay was for 8 hours . In other sections there were no night shifts and night 
work was paid for as overtime work . If night work has to be taken in other 
sections the same benefits should be conceded to other workers as were conceded 
to the workers in the hydraulic establishment. It is further urged that it is 
extremely difficult and in some cases impossible for workmen to report on duty 
in the early hours of the day and at late hours of the night, particularly for 
persons who have to be on duty in the oil pipe line section at Pir Pau which 
situate at a distance of 4 miles from the nearest railway station , and workmen are 
likely to be waylaid on the way by robbers. It has further complained that there 
are different hours of recess for different shifts , that sometimes recess is allowed 
at the fag end of the normal day of work and as such recess is of no use . Then 
it has been urged that while normally Saturday was a half working day it is now 
made a full working day and it is urged that the workers should be assured of a 
half day off on Saturday and a complete day off on Sunday . The union has asked 
that the changes which have been made should be withdrawn and the status quo 
ante restored . If night shift work is to be permitted some compensation in the 
form of increase in the wages or night shift allowance for loss of convenience and 
amenities and for extra expenses should be given , it is demanded that workmen 
in night shifts should be provided with sleeping accommodation or residential 
quarters near the place of work , travelling facilities from and to the residence 
from the place of work and canteen facilities . 


8 . In reply to the above contentions the Port Trust has stated that the shift 
system of working existed in many sections of the engineering department of the 
Port Trust and was not introduced as a new feature in the implementation of the 
provisions of the Minimum Wages Act . Night work was n permanent feature in 
the mobile crane section , the hydraulic pumping stations, the electrical establish 
ments , oil pipe line sections, diesel boosting stations and loco shed section . Crane 
drivers were working in the second shift from 5 - 30 P . M . to midnight and in the 
third shift from midnight to 7 - 00 AM , without any complaint since 1949 . With 
regard to workmen who operate running machinery it is to be attended to all the 
24 hours of the day , the rest interval has to be staggered and it is not practicable 
to allow the rest interval to all the employees at the same time. The workmen , 
therefore , mutually arrange that out of thc workmen employed on the same 
machine all the number should take rest after 4 hours and the other haif take the 
rest interval thereafter . Rest interval is treated as time spent on duty . It is 
denied that recess is given at the fag end of the shift. It is pointed out that section 
57 of the Tactories Act clearly contemplates night shift work and the Factories 
Act which contains numerous provisions for safeguarding the health and general 
wellbeing of the employees does not prohibit night shift work , nor does it provide 
for any compensatory allowance for work in the night shift. Similarly rule 24 ( a ) 
of the Minimum Wages ( Central) Rules contains a provision relating to night 
shift work , but in fixing , the minimum wages no distinction is drawn between 
night work and day work . Also the model standing orders in Schedule I to the 
Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders ) Act, 1946 recognises the right of the 
industrial establishment in its discretion to have work carried out in more than 
one shift, without providing for extra payment for night shift work . It is urged 


PART I - - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 237 9 

= = = = = = = 
that if the arguments advanced by the union in support of its opposition to night 
work vere genuine it is inconceivable that the union should ask for the abolition 
of the revised system of work and want the Port Trust to revert to the former 
syster in which migat work 11 many cases used to be done by the very men who 
worked uuring the day . Under the former system of work most of the employees 
in the cngineering department used to work from 5 - 30 P . M . to 8 A . M ., in many 
cases ailer having worked during the full morning shift from 8 A . M . to 5 - 30 P . M . 
It is contended on behalf of the Port Trusí that the union is opposed to the revised 
systenı because it has done away with the former practice of doing excessive 
overturne work and getting conscquent overtime earnings . It has drawn attention 
to thic report of tile Chief Labour Commissioner ( Exhibit U / 19 ) to the Govern 
ment of India in which he has observed , 
" In most of the cases the employees who are required to work overtime 

which ranges from 4 to 8 hours a day and in some cases extended to 
16 to 20 hours a day . Continuous overtime to such an extent which 
has been going on for many years is hardly fair and must be avoided , 
It can be done oiuy by introducing second and / or third shift where 

ever necessary . " 
The Port Trust also relies on rule 13 of the Rules and Regulations for non 
scheduied staff which provides that more than one shift may be worked in any 
department or section thereof at the discretion of the Chairman and this rule has 
been based on the provision in the model standing orders . These rules have been 
framed by the Trustees under the provisions of the Bombay Port Trust Act and 
have been approved of by the Central Government. The rules are therefore 
statutory and are determinative of the conditions of service of the employees and 
it has urged therefore that the revised system of night work in certain sections of 
the engineering department does not constitute any alteration in the conditions of 
service of the employees. The allegation that the present scales of pay were fixed 
without taking into consideration the factor of night work is denied . In several 
sections of the engineering department night shift working was a normal feature 
long before the scales of workmen revised in 1946 and again in 1948 following 
upon the recommendations of the Pay Commission for the scales of pay of Govern 
ment employees . The allegation of the union that in 1948 it was agreed between 
the Port Trust and the union that the night shift workers should work for only 
6 hours is denied and it is urged that all night shift workers in all sections of the 
engineering department including the hydraulic establishments worked for 8 hours , 
excepting crane drivers and other staff auxiliary to the crane drivers who worked 
for 6 hours because this latter staff has got to work in conjunction with dock 
labour staff and all work in the sccond shift in the docks ends at midnight, thus 
allowing a period of only 6 hours for the night shift. With regard to the allega 
tion of the union that the changes in the timings of duty are awkward and in 
convenient, the Port Trust has submitted that this presumably refers to the second 
and third shifts , that it is not an unusual or a new thing for the second shift to end 
at midnight, that the second shift in the docks always ended at midnight and even 
In the engineering department the crane men and the auxiliary staff always used 
to work in a shift which ended at midnight and it is, therefore , pointed out that 
if employees in the past had worked in shifts ending or commencing at midnight 
it is difficult to understand how the timings have become suddenly awkward and 
inconvenient. It has been further submitted by the Port Trust that if the provi 
sions of the Minimum Wages Act are to be complied with it is not possible to 
avoid night shifts or to fix timings of night shifts differently from those now Axed . 
The allegation that workmen are required to report on duty at 5 - 30 A . M , on certain 
days in the dry dock section is denied . The morning shift in the dry dock com 
mences at 7 A . M . As regards the oil pump line section , Pir Pau , the patrolling of 
the jungle has all along been done during night hours and the allegation that it is 
risky to walk on foot to the place of work is denied . 


9 . There can be no doubt that changes had to be made so as to conform to 
the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act and Rules and the workmen who had 
clamoured for the bringing into effect the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act 
and Rules and have reaped the advantages thereof, viz ., a compulsory day of) , 
and a spread over not to exceed 12 hours and payment at double rate for work 
on weekly off and for overtime in respect of work exceeding 48 hours prr week 
(which the Port Trust has made good with retrospective effect from 151h March 
1951 and paid the workmen concerned in this reference a sum amounting in the 
aggregate to about rupees thirty - six lacs ) have found that the changes necessary 
to bring the provisions of the Act and Rules into effect have deprived them of 
the benefit of earning overtime wages and they want to reversion to the old 
system . It is quite out of question for the Port Trust to revert to the old system 
and commit a breach of the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act and Rules 


2380 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1984 


[PART II Sec . & 


LIAN 


merely because it suits the workmen who have reaped the beneflts of the appli 
cation of the Act and secured large sums of money on account of overtime pay 
ment at rate prescribed by the Minimum Wages Act, with retrospective effect 
from 15th March 1951 to ask now for a reversion to the status quo ante . I also 
cannot accept the case of the union that the shift system and changes in the times 
of working were introduced to take revenge on the workers for agitating for the 
application of the Minimum Wages Act and Rules to the Port Trust . The changes 
had to be made to conform to the provisions of the Act and Rules and these 
changes by rendering it nccessary to have additional shifts and engaging large 
number ot extra staff have cost the Port Trust rupees 15 lacs ( vide Ex . C / 7 ) . 
In the union s statement of claim in para , 46 it is stated that the Chief Com 
missioner of Labour, Shri S . C . Joshi, remonstrated with the Port Trust autho 
rities that the changes were by way of revenge because the Port Trust Autho 
rities were made to implement the Minimum Wages Act. This is strenuously 
denied by the Port Trust , and I have no doubt that Shri Joshi could not have 
been so irresponsible as to make any such observation . His report to the Central 
Government ( Ex . U / 19 ) does not support the story that he considered that the 
changes were made on account of revenge. On the contrary the Report shows 
that he considered it necessary to resort to two or even three shifts to give effect 
to the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act. In para. 6 of his report he had 
stated , 
" It may be mentioned here that in the past the Port Trust employees in 

the Bombay Docks have been working principally in one shift and 
normally the shift works from 08 .00 hours to 17- 30 hours , with an 
interval of one hour s recess , from Monday to Friday and from 08. 00 
hours to 13 .00 hours on Saturday . The working hours of some 
sections had been from 17 . 00 hours to 08 . 00 hours the following day , 
and from 17 - 30 hours to 08 , 00 hours the next day , In most of the 
cases, the employees were required to work overtime, which ranged 
from four to eight hours a day and in some cases it extended to 16 
or 20 hours a day . The continuous overtime to such an extent which 
has been going on for many ycars is hardly fair and must be avoid 
ed . It can be done only by introducing second and / or third shift, 
wherever necessary . The Port Trust authorities decided to work the 
second and / or third shift and fix the working hours accordingly to 
eight per shift . The hours of the shifts , in the new scheme had been 
fixed in such a way that in some cases the shift commences and 
ends cither at 05 . 00 hours and 00 hours (midnight) . No rest interval 
had also been specified . As the men had to live at long distances , 
commencing and ending of the shift at such odd hours was some 
what inconvenient to the employees , due to transport difficultics . The 
men , therefore, resented the new scheme." 


10 . The union has at Ex , U / 36 submitted its own proposals as " compromise 
proposals ” . According to it the duty hours should be from 8 A . M , to A P . M . with 
overtime from 5 .30 P . M . onward , and the night shift from 8 P . M . to 8 A . M . 
with overtime pay from 2 . 30 A . M . These proposals are open to serious objections 
and are made with a view to secure a large amount of overtime pay for the 
workmen and are prima facie contrary to the policy of the law and of industrial 
awards. Overtime work is meant to be done if the exigencies of work so require 
and it would be wrong to fix hours of work only with a view that each workman 
should earn as much overtime as possible . Overtime work cannot be as efficient 
as work in the normal duty hours and it would be wrong to have an arrangement 
under which work is taken from tired workmen who have worked for an exces 
sive number of hours to get overtime, instead of from a fresh batch of workmen . 
In Ex , U / 36 the union has submitted another alternative " compromise" proposal, 
viz ., that in the first shift the hours of work may remain unaltered but there 
should be payment at overtime rate for 3 hours out of the hours of duty and 
that for the second and third shift the normal hours of work should be from 
5 . 30 P . M . to midnight and midnight to 6 . 30 A . M , (with half an hour s recess in 
between in each case ) and that in respect of the third shift the workmen should 
be paid at overtime rate of 13 times the basic wages if they are required to 
work till 8 A . M . This proposal is coupled with some conditions such as standby 
awkward duty allowance , etc . 


11. In the statement of claim thc union has dealt at great length with the 
disadvantages of night work , and an impression is given as if night work has 
been introduced for the first time and so it should be compensated by a night 
allowance for workers in the second and third shifts . The Port Trust has pointed 
out that in several sections of the enginecring department night shift system of 
work was a normal and regular feature of work since 1938 , In Ex . C / 8 the Port 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


2381 


1950 


Trust has give the number of workmen who worked in night shifts before the 
changes made tu bring into effect the provisions of the Minimum Wages Act, 
and which have yiven rise to this dispute . That statement gives the following 
particulars : 
Section Number of Year in which 

Remaiks . 
workmen shift intro 

duced , 
Oil Pipe Line 

Three shifts. 
Diesel Boosting Stations . 

1949 Two shifts when oil cargo had . 

to be loaded or unloaded . 
Electrical Establishments . 

550 Before 1946 Two shifts 8 to 5 -30 P .M . 

5 - 30 P . M . to 8 - 0 A . M . 
Mobile Crane Section 

300 

1949 Operational gangs in three 

shifts . 
Wagon Foreman s Section . 

50 Before 1946 Yard staff. 
Loco Shed . . . 

Breakdown gang . 
Hughes Dry Dock Engine 

Three shifts for factory work 
House 

men : greasers 2 shifts . 
Hydraulic Pumping Station 

Three shifts . 6 - 30 A . M . to 
2 - 30 P . M . ; 2 - 30 P . M . to 10 - 30 
P . M . & 10 - 30 P .M . to 6 - 30 A . M . 


300 


IO 


33 


Gate Staff of Hydraulic Esta 

Three shifts 
blishment Alexandia Dock 

12 . In all the above cases workmen were rotated and overtime payment was 
made after 8 hours duty ( excluding an hour s recess ) . The union has suggested 
that for the second and third shifts the duty hours should be six and the remain 
ing hours overtime and has stated that in 1948 it was agreed between the Port 
Trust and the union that the night shift workers should work for 6 hours only . 
The Port Trust has denied such agreement and has stated that all night shift 
workers in all sections of the engineering department worked for 8 hours , except 
crane drivers and other staff auxiliary to the crane drivers . The reason for the 
crane drivers and auxiliary staff working only 6 hours is that the staff has got to 
work in conjunction with dock labour staff and all work in the second shift in 
the docks comes to an end at midnight thus allowing only six hours for the night 
shift. The reason for the night shift in the docks working for six hours has not 
been given but it may be due to the hard nature of the work of loading and 
unloading. The Royal Commission on Labour referred to the heavy character 
of dock work . The agreement as regards the dock workers referred to by the 
union is at Ex . U / 33 and relates to fixation of hours of the hydraulic crane men 
in the second shift at 5 - 30 P .M . to 12 midnight with half an hour s recess. 

13. The union has suggested that a night allowance for second and third shift 
workers or in the alternative the number of hours of normal duty should be 
reduced and extra hours of work paid for as overtime. It has been argued on 
behalf of the Port Trust that allowances are part of wages and a night duty 
allowance would in effect mean an increase in wages. The union had made a 
specific prayer for increase in wages in its applications to the authorities for 
reilililo vse disputes to adjudication , but the Central Government has not in 
cluded that matter in the order of reference . It is therefore urged that it is not 
within my jurisdiction to consider any wage increases. Issue No . 1 referred to 
me for adjudication is whether the chianges in regard to the neyr shifts , working 
hours . timings of shifts , waekly off days, working h . 

and rest 
intervals are fair and reasonable . If they are not it is : " : 

to direct 
modifications to be made or to give such relief to : 

consider 
to be just and proper . It is true that the general question of changes in the 
wage structure is not within the scope of the reference . But if it were shown 
that by reason of any of the changes the workmen have been put to additional 
expenditure it would no doubt be within the scope of my powers to direct that 
an allowance be given to cover such expenditure . Also if any of the changes 
made are not fair or reasonable , I think it could be within my power to award 
a special allowance to compensate for the special handicaps incidental to night 
work , such as the adverse effect on the health of the worker , the greater inci 
dence of sickness , the upsetting of family and social life , etc ., if the wage struc 
ture had been fixed on the assumption that there would be day duty only . The 
wages were revised in 1948 and in 1949 and it appears that the principle in revision 
was to adopt as a basis the recommendations of the Central Pay Commission in 


2382 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


regard to the Central Government employees . Long before 1948 there were night 
shifts in some sections of the engineering department of the Port Trust as well as 
some other departments ( vide para , 11 above ). So when wagcs were fixed the 
circumstance that some workmen had to work at night was present before the 
Port Trust authorities and wherever there were shifts they were rotated . The 
Pay Commission also was aware that in some Government departments work hud 
to be done at night. The Pay Commission appears to have taken into considera 
tion these factors in their recommendations, Page 230 of the Report shows that 
the Commission was aware that in one particular department night duty hours 
were less than the day duty hours. 


14 . In the cotton textile mills in Bombay no special allowance is given for 
work during the night but workmen arc rotated in the shifts . The Bombay 
Textile Labour Enquiry Committee stated in its Report (at p . 171 ) that it would 
not suggest any extra payment for night work , but it made certain proposals 
including a reduction of hours so as to secure the maximum advantage to the 
industry . In the case of the Deccan Sugar and Abkari Co . Ltd . Şamalkot and 
their workmen ( 1952- I L . L . J .633 ) where the Adjudicator had awarded 25 per 
cent. extra remuneration for night shift work , the Labour Appellato Tribunal 
set aside the order observing. 


" This Tribunal has for reasons therein given declined the claim of night 

shift workers to cxtra remuneration in at least two other awards , 
and we see no reason to adopt any different principle in the case 
before us. In our opinion the adjudicator was in error in giving 25 
per cent. extra remuneration to the night shift worker , and his 

order to that cffect is set aside." 
In a more recent decision , viz ., the Asbestos Cement Co . Ltd . and their work 
men ( 1954 - I LL . J. 856 ) their Lordships of the Labour Appellate Tribunal ob 
served 

" Industries fall into the two broad divisions : 
( 1 ) thosc where continuous working is not necessary for technical 

reasons ; and 
( 2 ) those where as is the case before us , it is necessary for such reasons . 
In the first type, night shifts are worked with a view to have large pro 

duction within a shorter period of time. From the management s 
point of view that has among others the following advantages . It 
lowers the overhead costs and thereby the cost of production is 
reduced which is essential to meet keen competition . It enables the 
industry to consume raw materials more quickly which is taken with 
the fact that shifts are generally increased and night shift working 
is resorted to in such industries when there is a great demand for 
the goods produced , means that there is quicker turnover of the 
working capital. There is then the possibility for larger profits but 
these considerations are not relevant and do not count where for 
technical reasons continuous working is essential. In an industry of 
the Arst tvpe . tamcly , the cotton textile industry of Bombay , the 
question of night shift work was examined from all aspects by the 
Textile Labour Enquiry Committee at pages 164 to 177 ol Volume II 
of its report published in 1940. Thut committee examined the dis 
advantages and discomforts to workmen working in night shifts -- 
deleterious effect on health , the onerous work due mainly to the 
living conditions of workmen , family life aspect, social disadvantages 
and effect on the problem of unemployment in cases of spasmodic 
working of night shifts and for short durations. Still the committee 
did not recommend abolition of night shifts where it could be 
abolished , technical reasons for continuous working being absent. 
Their recommendations were mainly influenced by considerations of 
the health of the worker and other considerations noticed below and 
one of them was that a worker should not be placed on night shift 
work continuously but only by rotation at reasonable intervals of 
time, so that the bad effect, on his health by reason of night work 
may disappear with the nights of rest during these intervals of time, 
By the rotation system family and social life are disrupted only for 
short periods of time. Other considerations, e . g ., better working con 
ditions at night, proper lighting and ventilation , etc., were made with 
a view to make their night work less onerous. But the fact is signi 
ficant that even in an industry of the first type where continuous 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1964 


2383 


working was not essential but where night- shift work is resorted 
to for considerations noted above, the said committee refused 
to accede to the demand of workmen for remuneration at 
rates higher than what would be paid to them or their confers 
engaged in day - shift work . We have not overlooked the fact that 
a somewhat shorter period of work for workmen engaged in night 
shift work after 12 midnight was envisaged in that repori. But at 
the same tinie another patent fact must not be overlooked , namely , 
viat where the industry is of such a nature that continuous working 
is essential for technical reasons, the rotation of a workman into the 
night - shift on the same remuncration as he would be getting when 
working in the day - shift is a condition of service . It is a part of 
the job and so no special allowance is called for," the cxpression 
used by the kolar Gold Field Minimum Wage Committee ( p . 20 of 
une report published in 1950 ) . We may further stated that modifica 
tion of that service condition by a tribunal on any of the grounds on 
which night- shift work is to be or has been deprecated is not called 
for ; for, it must be taken that in fixing the wages of the workmen 
placed in the rotation in night - shifts the management must have 

taken those factors in consideration " . 
As stated above night duty is not a new feature in employment in the Port 
Trust ; there were as many as 3 shifts in certain sections of the engineering 
department even before 1946 and long before the pay scales were revised . 
Wherever there were night shifts the shifts were rotated and under the cxisting 
Regulations the shifts are liable to rotation . In the circumstances there is no 
gooa CASC lor giving a special night duty allowance merely because under the 
recent changes night shifts have been introduced in a number of sections of the 
enginecring department to give effect to the provisions of the Minimum Wages 
Act in regard to a compulsory of1 - day and a maximum period of 12 hours for 
spread over of work . 

15 . The Port Trust is a public local authority and not run from the profit 
making motive . It is not that it has to have night shifts to secure large produc 
tion or to lower overhead costs . But night shifts are necessary because in some 
cases it is necessary for technical reasons and in others because the Port Trust has 
to give the usual facilities of a port to incoming and outgoing ships in the 
interests of trade and commerce, Ships have to be loaded and unloaded at night 
timus to prevent undue detention in the purt, the Llectric department has to work 
at night to illuminate the port areas at nignt, there has to be continuous flow 
of oil and oil tankers cannot be kept unnecessarily waiting, and so on . The union s 
demand in its statements of claim that night work should not be done , or if 
allowed no night shift should start or end between 9 p . m . and 8 a . m ., is clearly 
unsustainable 

16 . Before the changes were made to implement the provisions of the Mini 
mum Wages Act the normal working hours in most cases were 474 hours, the day 
duty hours were from 3 a . In . to 5 - 30 pm , with an hour s recess , and the second 
shift was usually from 5 p .m . to 8 a . m ., the work after nine and a half hours 
( including one hour s recess ) counting as overtime. On Saturdays the hours 
of duty wore five, without recess . Annexure A to the written statement of the 
Port Trust shows that the hours of duty in the case of day duty workmen have 
not been altered but in a few cases the morning shift starts at 7 a . m . thistead 
oľ 8 ani. The second and third shift hours are 115ually from 4 p .m , to midnight 
and midnight to 8 A .M . lespectively and are therefore 48 hours in the week , i. e . 
half an hour more , in the week , than the day shilt hour s shown in annexure A . 
In pala 40 of the stateinent of claim it is stated that some workmen were required 
to report to duty at 5 - 30 am This is denied by the Port Trust and the state 
mcnt giving the details of timings of the shift shows that no workinen are 
required to report at that hour. 

17. If three shifts have to be worked a convenient arrangement would be to 
start the first shift at 7 a . m . so that the second shift can end well before midnight 
and the second shift workers could find it easier to get a conveyance ( tram or 
train as the case may be ) 10 reuch home and they can usc a large part of the 
night for sleeping , and the evils of night, work would be considerably mitigated : 
and the third shift workers would also have a more convenient time 
to join . But the union has in its statement of claim made no such demand 
though at the time of hearing it was stated on behalf of the union in reply to 
my query that such an arrangement would be advantageous and acceptable to 
the workers . But on behalf of the Port Trust it was stated that for technical 
or administrative reasons it is not feasible for the morning shift in most sections 
to be started at 7 a . m . instead of at 8 a . m . but that the point would be further 


2384 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[Part II - SEC. 3 


examined . In the circumstances I do not think it necessary to give directions to 
change the starting time of the shifts , but I would recommend that where there 
are two or three shifts and the day shift starts at 8 A . M . the Port Trust authorities 
should consider the feasibility of starting the day shift half an hour or an hour 
earlier and if this can be done the second and third shifts could start half an hour 
or an hour earlier , as the case may be . 

18 . Before the changes which have given rise to this reference were made the 
first and second shifts started at convenient times , but a large majority of the 
workers worked for an excessive number of hours on overtime basis . Under 
the terms of reference I have power to give relief if any of the alterations made 
are not fair and reasonable . What is fair and reasonable :: one set of circums 
tances may not be fair and reasonable in another . While it is true that in 
a few sections of the engineering department there were , before the recent 
changes , night shifts of eight hours each under the old conditions the number 
of workmen in those shifts was smaller and as long as there were opportunities 
of earning overtime on week days and Sundays there was no agitation for im 
provement in the conditions regarding night work . But under the recent changes 
it has been found by the workmen that while overtime earnings have been 
reduced to a great extent the second shift workers have to leave at inconvenient 
hours and the third shift workers have to come at inconvenint hours . While the 
normal hours of the day workers have remained unaltered at 471 hours, the hours 
for night- shift workmen have been increased to 48 hours ; more convenient 
timings for the second and third shifts would have caused less dissatisfaction 
with regard to the conditions of night work . It has also to be borne in mind 
that the Port Trust levies higher rates and charges for its services to vessels at 
night and from this point of view also the night shift workers deserved more 
consideration . In the Scindia workshop Ltd ., and the Mazagoan Docks Ltd ., the 
hours of the night shift workers are less than for the day shift workers (vide the 
evidence of the Labour Officers of the respective companies at Exhibits U / 45 
and U / 46 ) . In the Scindia Workshops there are about 1 ,500 workers of whom 
250 work on the night shift. The evidence of Shri Trivedi, the Labour Officer of 
the Scindia Workshops as to how a similar problem as has arised in the case of 
the Port Trust was tackled by the Scindia Workshops Ltd ., is of interest . He has 
stated that at first all the workmen were working in one shift. Two years ago , 
with a view to reduce overtime work after 4 - 30 p .m . the second shift was 
introduced . The workmen resisted the move of the company because of the 
loss of overtime and claimed a night allowance . The management, to compensate 
the workers and in lieu of all their demands, reduced the working hours of the 
second shift from eight to six so that workmen could reach their residences 
before midnight. 


19 . For the reasons given above I am of the view that the changes made have , 
in some respects , not been reasonable and some relief is necessary in respect of 
the night shift workers and the directions, which having regard to all the cir 
cumstances appear to be appropriate , and which I give are as follows. The 
normal working hours of the second and third shift workers , i .e ., the night shift 
workers should be reduced from 8 to 7 (42 hours per week ) and if they are 
called upon to work for 8 hours they shall be paid overtime for the extra hour 
at one and a half the basic wage. In Ex . C / 13 the Port Trust has given an estimate 
that this would involve an additional annual expenditure of about Rs. 11, 171 , and 
even if as a result of this direction the Port Trust finds it difficult to resist the 
claim of workers in other departments , if they are working under similar condi 
tions without extra allowances, the additional burden on tht Port Trust would be 
small. The directions in this paragraph should be given effect to within a month 
of the date on which this award becomes enforceable . 

20 . Rotation of Shifts.- - In other industries wherever there are night shifts 
the ordinary rule is that of rotation and this benefits the night workers for 
permanent work on the night shifts is certainly detrimental to health . In the 
textile mills of Bombay, Khandesh and Sholapur there is a system of change 
over . The principle of change over was accepted by the International Labour 
Organisation , Chemical Industries Committee by a Resolution which was adopted 
by 76 votes to nil at the eighth Plenary sitting of the Committee in September 
1952 . In that Resolution there were the following clauses : ( a ) shifts should be 
periodically rotated , (b ) employers should consult workers organisation on the 
most suitable systems of shift rotation both from the employers and the workers 
point of view . In some sections of the engineering department of the Port Trust 
there were already shifts before the introduction of the recent changes and shifts 
were rotated . It appears from the statement of claim that where new shifts 
have been introduced , workmen who had not previously worked in night shifts 
have not been put on night shift work because it was thought that owing to the 


pendency of certain appeals before the Labour Appellate Tribunal such changes 
could not be made so as to affect the conditions of existing workmen . Under 
Rule 13 of the Rules and Regulations framed with the sanction of the Central 
Government more than onc shift may be worked in any department at the dis 
cretion of the Chairman , and where more than one shift is worked workmen 
are liable to be transferred from one shift to another . In the written statement 
the Port Trust has stated that it is willing to rotate the shifts . In the union s 
statement of claim there is nothing mentioned about rotation of shifts , but at 
the time of hearing Shri Kavlekar stated on behalf of the union that the work 
men did not desire rotation . It is difficult for the union with a majority of day 
shift workers to hold the scales even between day and night shift workers parti 
cularly when a large number of night shift workmen appear to be new recruits . 
But workmen should live and let live, and it is difficult to justify a system 
under which a large number of wokmen are condemned to work permanently in 
shifts which some American writers refer to as graveyard shifts . Workers ought 
to understand that a certain amount of inconvenience arising from change over 
is inevitable and should be tolerated in the interests of the workers as a whole 
and in the interests of the conservation of the vitality of the workers as a whole , 
The matter should not be approached from the standpoint of letting sleeping dogs 
lie and I would recommend that the Port Trust authorities should consider the 
advisability of rotating the shifts . 

21 . Canteen Facilities . It has urged that for night shift workers there 
should be canteen facilities and that the canteens should supply cooked food ; 
that the Port Trust canteen is not open at night and that , in particular refresh 
ments should be available for workmen who have completed the second shift 
and also during the rest intervals in the third shift . On behalf of the Port Trust 
it was stated during the hearing that an experiment was formerly made of pro 
viding a mobile canteen at night and there was no demand for cooked food . It 
was stated however that the Port Trust was agreeable to provide canteen facilities 
for tea and light refreshments for the night shift workers during the rest intervals 
and at the close of the second shift and at any other period if it was found 
necessary . It was further stated that arrangements would also be made for the 
canteen to provide cooked food if there was sufficient demand for it. In view of 
this assurance on behalf of the Port Trust I do not consider it necessary to give 
any directions in regard to canteens. 

22 . Then there is a demand for sleeping facilities with cots , lockers , etc ., for 
night workers. I have not been referred to any case in which obligation was 
cast on the employer to provide such facilities and the demand appear extra 
vagant. At the time of hcaring it was stated on behalf of the Port Trust that if 
by reason of the distance from the place of work of awkward hours of duty any 
workers desired sleeping accommodation after or before duty hours the Port Trust 
would examine the question whether facilities for sleeping could be given for 
sleeping in the sheds in the Port Trust area . I do not consider it necessary to 
give any directions on the point. 

23 . In the statement of claim a demand for transport for night shift workers 
was made but at the time of hearing the only demand on this point which was 
pressed by the representative of the union was that transport facilities should be 
provided for workers who have to report to duty at Pir Pau from Wadala , the 
nearest railway station which is 4 miles from Pir Pau . It appears that there are 
about 30 workmen in each shift. It has been pointed out on behalf of the Port 
Trust that no change has been introduced in this matter and that in the boosting 
station at Pir Pau there have always been three shifts and workmen have always 
reported at Pir Pau . It was further stated that there is no road at present between 
Wadala and Pir Pau but there is a scheme for the construction of a road , and 
when it is completed the Port Trust would consider making some transport 
arrangement particularly for the night shift workers. I do not consider it neces 
sary to give any directions on this matter, 

24 . Rest Interval. The union has complained that when the second and third 
shifts were introduced no rest hours were specified . It is urged that rocess is 
necessary because a worker gets fatigued and loses concentration after con 
tinuous work for long time and rest is also necessary for taking meals, tea, etc ., 
and it is no use giving this rest interval at the fag end of the normal day of the 
work . During the arguments it was stated that rest intervals were given at the 
whims of the foreman and that there should be rest intervals after every four 
hours of work . The Port Trust has replied that rest intervals of at least half 
an hour ( in the case of day shifts an hour ) is given to all employees . When the 
statement showing the revised timings of work was first prepared and exhibited 
on the notice boards, duc to inadvertance the rest periods were not specified 
though in fact they were allowed . In Ex , A attached to the written statement 


zgtor 


THE GAZT . OT INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


[PART 11 82c . 3 


the hours of the various shifts are given and it is stated that in the case of shifts 
marked with asterisks there is a one hour recess and in the case of all other 
shifts the recess is half an hour which period is treated as duty but the staff 
are not allowed to leave the site of work . In the case of watchmen the nature 
of their duties is different from those of workers who continuously attend to 
a machine and it is not practicable to let them leave the place of duty but they 
get good opportunities of rest, taking meals , etc . Again running machinery has 
to be attended to for all 24 hours of the day and it is not practicable to allow the 
rest intervals to all employees at the same time but workmen mutually so ar 
range that out of the workmen employed half the number take rest after 4 hours 
and the other half takes the rest interval immediately thereafter. Where no 
fixed period of recess is prescribed the rest period is treated as time spent on duty . 
Similar practice has existed all along in respect of workmen working on running 
machinery and in the changes made to give effect to the provisions of the 
Minimum Wages Act, there has been no alteration in the system of the rest inter 
val. It is pointed out that as a normal rule the workmen have their rest interval 
after 4 hours of work except in the rate event of an Ūntoward accident or brcak 
down of machinery when the rest Interval may not be availed of immediately 
after the end of 4 hour s duty . In course of the arguments it was complained 
that some workmen were not given half an hour s rest. Shri Seervai on behalf 
of the Port Trust stated that the Port Trust had given clear directions in respect 
of the rest interval and that if any specific complaint were brought to the notice 
of the Port Trust that such rest interval was not given to any employee it would 
be at once attended to and remedied . It is denied that the rest interval is given at 
the fag end of the duty hours and it is stated that it is given near about the 
middle of the shift hours . It appears to me that no changes have been made in 
the rest interval arrangement to the prejudice of the workmen . Incidentally it 
may be noted that the practice followed all along by the Port Trust is in con 
formity with the practice in the Indian Naval Dockyard in which , wherever there 
are three shifts all the cmployees are not given a break precisely at the end of 
half the period but at convenient times, to be arranged ( vide Ex . XI) . I do not 
consider it necessary to give any directions on the subject of the rest interval. 


25 . Working Hours on Saturdays . — The union has submitted that until the 
changes were cffected Saturday was a half working day, the hours of work being 
from 8 a .m . to 1 p . m . Now Saturday has been treated as any other week day 
and it is a loss of amenity . In the written statement of the Port Trust it is stated 
that all workmen who prior to the introduction of the recent changes used to enjoy 
a half day off on Saturday still continue to do so , that crane drivers and auxiliary 
crane staff in the hydraulic section have all along been working full day on 
Saturday as also the staff operating the running machinery . Those employees 
who work for the whole day on Saturday have shorter hours of work during 
the rest of the days of the week than the employees who get a half day off on 
Saturday . It appears from Ex . Aannexed to the written statement that even 
now in many cases there are shorter working hours on Saturday . Before the 
changes were made, in many cases Saturday was worked as full day and the hours 
of work after 5 hours were taken as overtime. Attention has been invited to 
Ex , U /37 which is a letter of the General Secretary of the Union in which he 
has stated , 
" The introduction has resulted in considerable loss in total earnings due 

to almost complete stoppage of overtime work . Every worker was 
getting overtime work for 4 hours a day and 8 - 9 hours on Saturdays 
besides Sundays. You will appreciate that the loss becomes unbearable 
as the present wages are very far from living wage or even fair 
wage . " 


This bears out the contention of the Port Trust that Saturday was not in fact 
observed as a half working day ; it was in fact a full working day but work after 
5 hours was treated as overtime. Wherever under the new arrangements 
Saturday is treated as a full working day there has been a corresponding reduc 
tion in the number of hours on other days and the aggregate number of hours 
per week has not been increased . In the course of the hearing the demand that 
Saturday should be treated as a half working day was not seriously pressed , 
In the circumtances I do not consider it nccessary to give any direction in respect 
of Saturday working. 


26 . Weekly Day Off . — I now come to the grievance of the union with regard 
to the weekly day off. The union has stated that the system of granting a fixed 
day of rest on Sunday had been in existence since the inception of the Port Trust, 
that Sunday being a common holiday for employees in other occupations Sunday 
off is a great amenity so that employees can fix their programmes and meet their 


PA 


SEC. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , ODPOWIAT 


234 . 


بسس 


freinds. It is admitted that according to the rules the employees were liable to 
be called on Sundays for work but according to the union this rule was not 
followed at all and only in emergent cases workmen were called on Sundays and 
paid overtime for the work . As pointed out by the Chairman of the Port Trust 
at a meeting of the Trustees on 15th December , 1953 ( Ex . C / 7 ) if Sunday had 
to be fixed as an unchangeable day of rest as demanded by the union , the Port 
Trust would have to close the Port on Sundays. Such a thing would no doubt 
be highly detrimental to the public interest. The union has stated that this 
change has been made by the Port Trust deliberately with ulterior motive to save 
money and to take revenge upon the workmen for agltating for the application 
of the Minimum Wages Act to employees in the Port Trust. It is urged that 
Sunday working should be only under exceptional circumtances, e . g ., when there 
are perishable goods are to be loaded quickly . It is pointed out that the Port 
Trust has been charging the shipping companies at double the ordinary rate for 
loading and unloading on Sundays . Another grievance made is that notices with 
regard to workmen called to work on Sundays are fixed on preceding Saturdays 
and employees cannot plan their programmes as they do not know till the last 
hours about the weekly off. It is pointed out that those of the employees who 
are Christians would appreciate a holiday on Sunday so that they can attend 
Church mass which is obligatory . It is further urged that it is not for the sake 
of overtime earnings that workmen object to work on Sunday but working on 
Sunday is a loss of amenity which cannot be measured in terms of money . If 
workmen have to be called for work on Sundays they should be paid at double 
the ordinary rate of wages in addition to the compensatory day off . 

27. The Port Trust has stated that Sunday has never been a fixed day of 
rest for all employees. Workmen in the electrical, hydraulic pumping station , oil 
pipe lines , dry docks and mobile crane sections of the engineering department 
had always worked on Sundays even without a compensatory oft day during the 
week . As these workmen used to work for 7 days in the week without any day 
of rest they used to be paid for Sunday work at 11 times the basic wages. In 
sections of the cngineering department governed by the factories Act the weekly 
oll days were staggered and no special allowance was paid to the workmen for 
working on a Sunday . It was always the practice of the Port Trust to require 
the men to work on Sundays with or without a compensatory day of rest in the 
weck . The practice has been embodied in rule 10 ( b ) of the Rules and Regula 
tions for non - scheduled staff framed by the Trustees under the provisions of 4 . 
22 ( 9 ) of the Bombay Port Trust Act which was duly inserted in the Act by the 
Port Trust and Ports amending Act of 1951. The special rules and regulations 
were framed by the Trustees in February 1952 long before the introduction of 
the revised system of work . Rule 10 (b ) provides that subject as therein men 
tioned all employees would be allowed a weekly off on Suriday or any other day 
in the week . The Factories Act , the Minimum Wages Act and the Bombay Shops 
and Establishments Act, all provide for the grant of a wcekly rest day on Sunday 
or other day of the week . Before the implementation of the Minimum Wages 
Act when 10 weekly day of rest was complusory except for the staff working in 
establishments governed by the Factories Act a large number of employees used 
to work for 7 days in the week without the day of rest. Rule 23 of the Minimum 
Wages Central Rules provides that unless otherwise permitted by the Central 
Government no worker shall be required or allowed to work in a scheduled em 
ployment for all the 7 days of the week . This rule has to be complicd with and 
as work in the Port has to be carried on on Sunday it would be impossible to 
allow Sunday as the weekly day of rest to all the workmen . Sunday working is 
necessary for even if there are no vessels waiting to be loaded or unloaded A 
number of workmen have to be called in connection with the opening and closing 
of the sea dock gates depending on the state of tide, the manning of the pumps, 
attend ng to the lighting system in the docks, keeping the hydraulic pipes charged 
with water, etc . It is denied that the Port Trust charges ship companies at 
double the ordinary rates for loading and unloading on Sundays. There is a 
flat rate of Rs. 300 (plus a surcharge of 33 1 / 3 per cent.) in addition to the 
normal rates for a ship working cargo on a Sunday . The reason for this addi 
tional charge to shipping working cargo on Sunday is that formerly when it 
was not compulsory to give a day off in the weck , some of the workmen used to 
work for 7 days in the week including Sunday for such work which was not 
compensated by a weekly off thc workmen used to be paid at 1 ) times the basic 
rate of wages. In order to implement the Minimum Wages Act the weekly off 
day had to be staggered and a number of additional workmen had to be engaged 
to enable Sunday work to be done and at the same time to allow a weekly day 
of rest to all workmen . It is pointed out that the grievance of the union " that 
the notices relating to weekly off are put up on Saturdays and the workmen can 
not plan their programmes in advance on account of their ignorance of the week 
lv 011 day is not genuine. The Chairman at a meeting with the General Secr 
tary of the union on 5th February 1954 informed the latter that once the union 


2388 


OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 2, 1864 " (Part11 -Sec. 3 


11> 


accepted the principle of staggering the weekly holiday all further details could 
bę mutually settled . The Chairman desired the Secretary to decide whether the 
union would prefer to have a weekly off fixed for a period of two or three 
months or whether the Sunday off should be given to the men in strict rotation . 
In reply to this the General Secretary of the union by his letter , dated 13th February 
1954 stated that Sunday work should be performed on condition not only of a 
compensatory day off but 02 payment of double the rate of ordinary wages . In 
deference to the suggestion made by the Chief Commissioner of Labour the Port 
Trust decided to fix the oll days for groups of workmen two months in advance. 
The unlon responded to this gesture by advising the cranemen and the crane 
auxiliary stair to strike work until the notices setting out the two months pro 
gramme of weekly oll days were removed from the notice board and the previous 
method of notifying on Saturday the work schedule for the following week was 
restorcd . With regard to the grievance that in the case of Christian employees 
attending Church mass was obligatory , the Port Trust has stated that the un on 
did not think of this in the past when these workmen all along worked on Sunday 
without a compensatory day off in order to get overtime allowance. The submis 
sion of the union that the workmen do not wish to work on Sundays even if 
they were given compensatory day off and overtime rate of payment is refuted by 
the fact that all these years the workmen worked on Sundays to earn overl me 
allowance even without a compensatory off ; it is therefore urged that it should not 
make any difference whether the necessary relief from work and leisure to 
attend to domestic and social obligations is made available to a workman on 
Sunday or on any other day of the week . 


28 . The union has relied on the practice followed in the Mazagaon Dock Ltd ., 
the Alcock Ashdown & Co . Ltd ., and Scindia Steam Ships Ltd . Ex . C / 3 shows 
that in the case of Alcock Ashdown and Co . Ltd ., which is a company carrying 
on business as structural, mechanical and electrical engineers, shipwrights , 
launch , tug and barge builders, etc ., the weekly closed day for men employed on 
ships in the docks is Sunday and men working on such day are paid 50 per cent. 
extra wages inclusive of dearness allowance as bonus. If , however , work is done 
on Sunday in lieu of a holiday declared by the company during the week the 
ordinary rate of bonus is paid . With regard to the Mazgaon Docks Ltd ., which 
is a public limited company mainly engaged in ship repairs the Labour Officer 
of that Company was called to give evidence and he has stated that Sunday is 
paid for at a higher rate of 50 per cent of basic wages and dearness allowance , 
The workmen got substituted weekly off in the factory only and not in the docks , 
but no difference is made between the factory and dock workers in respect of 
this payment. If a workman works on Sunday only and was absent on other 
days he would still get 50 per cent, extra basic wages and dearness allowance . 
If a workman works for more than 48 hours in a week the time he has worked 
on Sunday is paid at double the basic pay and dearness allowance plus 50 per 
cent, of basic pay and dearness allowance . Intimation of work on Sunday is 
given on the previous day . The witness could not say if longer notice could be 
given as it was a technical matter . Shri Trivedi, the Labour Omcer of Scindia 
Workshops Ltd . which is a subsidiary company wholly owned by the Scindia Steam 
Navigation Co . Ltd . and is doing the business of repairing shios, launches and 
barges, has stated that the company engages on an averagc 1, 500 workmen . The 
weekly off is Thursday. Formerly it was Sunday but on account of the short 
age of electricity Thursday was substituted for Sunday but the company intends to 
revert to Sunday when the electricity difficulty is removed . The workmen who 
work on the Axed day of rest get 30 per cent. of the basic wages extra , technical 
ly called Sunday allowance Dock workers are not given a compensatory day 
off so they get double the wages plus 50 per cent. basic wages as Sunday al 
lowance because the weekly hours would exceed 48. This is under the Factories 
Act and even though the Act does not apply to dock workers the company gives 
the benefit of the Art to workers working in the docks also , as workers are in 
terchangeable . lle has further stated that the reason why extra wages are given 
for work 0 :1 the fixed off day is that a man has to attend to his social duties and 
he misses them if only on a previous day the intimation of day of rest is given . 
He has alded that the company could plan at the most for Sunday working at 
the most 3 or 4 days in advance The factory workers get a compulsory off day 
and their Sunday allowance of 50 ner cent. is inclusive of dearness allowance, 
The workers in the docks do not get compensatory of as they get double the 
wages plus the 50 per rent basic wages as Sunday allowance because the weekly 
hours would exceed 48 . 


29 It may here be mentioned that none of the parties in this reference has 
referred to the practice prevailing in the Indian Naval Dockyard at Bombay . In 


PART 11 - -SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2389 


the Rege Inquiry Committee Report on an enquiry into conditions of 
Dockyards in India it is stated at page 16 , 


labour 1:1 


" Due to pressure of work on account of war conditions, overtime is being 

worked in almost all the dockyards. Payment is according to the 
scales laid down in the Factories Act with this modification that work 
between 7 - 15 P . M . (On Saturdays 4 - 15 P .M . ) and 6 - 30 A . M . is paid at 
14 rate in the H . M . I, dockyard . Every worker who work overtime 
in the night is given a free one anna ration coupon in this dockyard , 
In the Mazagon dockyard also work between 5 - 30 PM , and 7 - 30 P . M , 
in the day shift and 3 - 30 A . M . to 7 A . M , in the night shift is paid at 
overtime rates as laid down in the Factories Act . In all dockyards 
the work on a Sunday , during day or night, is paid at 15 times the 
normal rate . Some of the dockyard call this a Sunday bonus in the 
H . M . I. dockyard overtime is compulsory and is allocated by turns 
amongst the workers. The Personnel oficer keeps a careful watch 
to see that there is equitable distribution of work amongst the 
workers . Overtime is also compulsory in Port Trust," 


This Report was made in 1947. From Ex . X - 1 however it is seen that at present 
workmen in the Indian Naval Dockyard are not paid at a higher rate for work 
at night or on Sundays. It is however not know how many workers there are 
night shift workers and what are the other conditions of service there as com 
pared with service under the Port Trust. 


30. The Port Trust has pointed out that comparison should be made not with 
the above mentioned companies as these companies are profit making concerns 
while the Port Trust is a public authority constituted for the purpose of giving 
the facilities of a Port to outgoing and incoming ships and that if comparisons 
are to be made they should be made with other Port Trusts in India . In neither 
of the two other large ports , viz ., Calcutta and Madras is work on Sunday paid 
for at a higher ratę [ see letters of the Chairman of the Calcutta and Madras Port 
Trusts ( Ex , C / 6 ) ) . In the letter of the Chairman of the Calcutta Port Trust is 
stated that the unions there had contended that workers were entitled under 
the Minimum Wages Act to payment of overtime rate on the weekly oil day in 
addition to the substituted day off , but that the position was explained to them 
and they had admitted that substitution of weekly holidays without payment of 
overtime was legally permissible . For the union it has been argued that com 
parisons should not be made with Port Trusts in other parts of India where con 
ditions are more retrograde , and after the present dispute the workers in the 
Madras port have also raised a dispute with regard to payment at overtime rate 
on Sunday. On the question of comparable concerns there is one difference bet 
ween the Port Trust and the companies engaged in ship repairs and marine en 
gineering, viz ., that while the latter have to quote for their services at a com 
petitive rate, the Port Trust can levy such charges and rates as it thinks At sub 
ject to the sanction of the Central Government. It is true that if the charges 
made are excessive, it would be detrimental to industry and trade and even 
divert traffic to other ports . All this discussion leads only to this , that compari 
sons between the Port Trust and other concerns can be made up to a point and 
should not be pushed too far, 


31. The union has also invited attention to books or pamhlets showing that 
Şunday work in ports in Europe and the U . S . A . are paid at a higher rate ( Ex 
tracts at Ex , U / 53, 54 and 55 ) . For the Port Trust it has been argued that social 
and economic conditions in Bombay difler from those obtaining in the ports oľ 
London , New York , Portsmouth , etc., and I agree with the contention of the Port 
Trust that the circumstance that Sunday work is paid there at a higher rate 
should not be a ground for allowing the claim for payment at an extra rate for 
work on Sunday . In the western countries social and religious factors have had 
a great hand in establishing overtime rate of payment for Sunday work . In the 
book " Labour Problems" ( Third Edition ) by Watkins and Dodd it is stated at 
p . 329 : 


" Sunday Labour. The Industrial experience of advanced nations shows 

conclusively that intervals of rest are needed to overcome mental 
and physical fatigue and exhaustion , but the lessons of experience 
are frequently disregarded in the operation of industry . Enlighten 
ed employers have recognised both the social and the cconomic value 


239 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


( PART II — Sec , 3 


of a periodic day of rest. The great majority of present -day em 
ployers are unfavourably disposed to Sunday labour. Their opposi 
tion is based 01 a number of different grounds. Administrative diin 
culties are many , Supervision of Sunday work is difficult and imposes 
a severe strain on the foremen ; Inexperienced , substitute super 
vision entails much waste . Economic inefficiency is inevitable . 
Sunday labour often means high wages and increased cost of opera 
tion , is usually characterized by low output, and is followed by a 
loss of time during other days of the week , Social and religious 
factors enter into the problem . Considerable feeling prevails among 
workers of every class that the seventh day should be set aside 
as a day of rest and that it is good for body and mind . The evidence 
that has been collected concerning Sunday labour shows that if the 
maximum of output is to be secured and maintained for any length 
of time, a weekly rest period must be allowed . Both on economic 
and social grounds Sunday work should be limited to sudden , un 
avoidable emergencies and the making of necessary repairs that 
cannot be accomplished when the industry is in full operation . In 
Industries in which continuous operation is necessary, provision 
should be made for one day of rest in seven for all workers ." 


32 . For the reasons given above I do not propose to rely on the practice in 
western countries in adjudicating on the claim for payment at a higher rate on 
Sunday . The union has cited the case of the Bombay Gas Co . v . Workmen 
( 1948 I. C . R . 781) decided by Shri P . S . Bakhle , Industrial Tribunal, in which the 
learned Tribunal observed , ( p . 800 ) 
" If a worker has a day off on a Sunday or holiday, he can spend the day 

in the company of his friends and relations and such complete re 
laxation would not be possible on the alternate day off as on that 
day his friends and relations would be at work . In the Ford Award , 
the learned adjudicator had awarded one and a half times the normal 
rate of pay for the day which in my opinion also is quite reasonable . 
I therefore direct that the company should pay to a worker called 
for duty on a Sunday or a holiday half times his normal daily 
wages in addition to the alternate day off. Thus for working on a 
Sunday or a holiday an employee would get one and a half 
times his normal daily wages and an alternato day off." 


Except this award and the award referred to by Shri Bakhle in the above quota 
tion my attention has not been invited to any other award in which a higher wage 
has been allowed for work on a Sunday. In the textile mills in Bombay and 
many other concerns in Bombay payment is not made at a higher rate for work 
on Sunday if a substituted weekly off day is given , and I am not greatly impress 
ed by the " friends and relations" aspect for allowing payment for workmen on 
Sunday at a higher rate . The friends and relations may not necessarily have 
their weekly off on Sunday or may not be at home or they may have something 
else to do on Sunday. And as against this " friends and relations" aspect, it may 
perhaps be necessary to offset at least in part the advantage that on a substituted 
off day a worker would have better facilities for shopping or for transacting any 
business for himself or his family or relations, with the post office savings , Bank 
or Government offices, etc ., which are closed on Sundays but would be open on 
the off days . No useful purpose will be served in pursuing the discussion on 
this point; it does appear that on balance workmen have a preference for Sunday 
as the day off , but it should be possible for the Port Trust or any other employer 
to fix Sunday duty for groups of workmen by groups and this is in fact done, 
so that all workmen have some Sundays in the year as their day off . In the 
present case I propose to concede the claim of the workmen to a higher rate 
of wages on Sunday, not on the ground relled on by the learned Adjudicator 
in the case of the Bombay Gas Co . referred to above , not because in England and 
Norway and the U . S . A . Sunday work is paid for at a higher rate , but because 
there are special circumstances in this case which make it equitable to concede 
the claim of the workmen to a higher rate of wages for Sunday work . The con 
siderations which have persuaded me to concede the claim are the following : ( 1 ) 
the Port Trust charges higher rates to masters , owners or agents of vessels in 
respect of every vessel permitted to work cargo ( except when the cargo consists 
of fresh fish , fruits and vegetables, which would in the aggregato form a very 
small proportion of the total cargo handled ) . There is also a special charge in 
respect of each dock gate opened and each vessel permitted to work and recelve 
or deliver cargo on Sunday ( vide extracts from Port Trust Rules at Ex . U / 56 ) . 


PART 11 - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1934 


2391 


The Port Trust has admitted in para . 35 of its written statement that there is a 
flat rate of Rs. 300 in addition to the normal rates for a ship working cargo on a 
Sunday. It is also not disputed that this Rs. 300 is further increased to Rs. 400 
by reason of the 33 1 / 3 per cent. surcharge . This being the case it would be 
reasonable that some benefit should be passed on to the workers who contribute 
to this additional revenue by coming on Sunday, who before the implementation 
of the Minimum Wages Act regularly earned for years together overtime ranging 
from 4 to 8 hours a day , in some cases 18 to 20 hours and had come to regard 
overtime earnings as part of their regular earnings ( vide para . 6 of the Chief 
Labour Commissioner s Report at Ex , U / 19 ) . In Ex . C / 12 the Port Trust has 
given an estimate of the increase in the wage bill which would be about Rs. 1, 23 ,000 
if the workmen concerned in this reference are paid at the rate of 1 } the basic 
wages. This is not an unduly heavy burden in relation to the wage bill. ( 2 ) the 
practice in other establishments in Bombay in which the work may not be iden 
tical, but in which conditions are comparable , viz ., Scindia Workshops Ltd ., 
Mazagon Docks Ltd ., and Alcock Ashdown & Co . Ltd . ( 3 ) The Port Trust has 
entered into an agreement with one section of its workers , viz ., dock labourers 
to pay at 11 times the normal rate for work on Sundays of an essential and ur . 
gent nature ( vide. U / 43) . At the hearing however this was tried to be explained 
away by stating that in actual practice the Port Trust does not take work on 
Sundays from the A and B category dock labourers , but from casual labourers 
( to whom the agreement does not apply ) who are also engaged for other days 
of the week if and when work is available for allotment after engaging the re 
gistered employees, and casual labourers are paid at the ordinary rate for 
Sundays . It is further explained that before the implementation of the Minimum 
Wages Act many of the employees in the different departments worked on Sundays 
without a compensatory oft during the week and so Sunday work was paid at 11 
times the basic wages. ( 4 ) Before the Implementation of the Minimum Wages 
Art all the workmen used to earn a great deal as overtime by working on Sunday 
As well as other days of the week . The annual overtime earnings in the depart 
ment on a basic wage bill of Rs. 58 lacs came to Rs. 10 lacs (vide Ex , c / 7 ) . This 
overtime was at the rate of 13 times the basic wages. In the report of the Chief 
Labour Commissioner ( Ex, U / 19 ) It is stated , 
" There is great discontent amongst the employees, whose total earnings 

has been considerably reduced due to the stoppage of overtime. The 
discontent would have repercussions on their efficiency and the 
smooth working of the Port . I would , therefore recommend that 
the dispute should be referred to an industrial tribunal, for adjudice 
tion . The items to be referred to the tribunal should include the 

following: 
Whether the new scheme of shift working hours and weekly Offs is 

Mfair and , if so , in what respects and to what extent the same 

should be changed . " . 
In the discussions on demand No . 2 I shall be dealing at greater length on this 
subject; here it is sufcient to say that this a factor that may be taken into 
consideration in adjudicating on the claim of the workmen to payment at higher 
rates for work on Sundays. Certain categories of workers in the hydraulic de 
partment were given special allowances for loss of overtime earnings ranging 
from Rs, 6 to 30 per month , when shifts were introduced in that section (Vide 
Ex . U 39 ) . This beneſt was later extended by giving them an allowance of Rs. 
15 per month though their pay had already been fixed after taking into considera 
tion the loss of overtime earnings . Shri Naik the learned Adjudicator in Re 
ference No . (IT - CG ) 2 of 1952 has in his award pointed out that there was no 
rase for the grant of a compensatory allowance to crane drivers and that the 
Port Trust " surrendered in favour of the employees, being helpless " . These 
workers are included in the present reference and they are already being over 
paid in comparison with other workmen of the same category in the same de 
partment doing the same type of work , and in my opinion they should be ex 
rluded from the relief which I propose to give to the workmen concerned in 
this reference in regard to Sunday work . 

33. For the reasons given above , I direct that with effect from one month of 
the date on which this award becomes enforceable the workmen concerned in this 
reference shall be paid at the rate of one and a half times basic wages (half the 
basic wages over the normal wage ) for work on Sundays ; subject to the proviso 
that , such of the crane drivers and other workmen drawing compensatory al 
lowance referred in the preceding paragraph will not be entitled to payment at this 
extra rate as long as they are in receipt of such allowance . 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


2392 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 [PART II — Sec, 3 

-- 

- - - - 
34 , Demand No. 2 is as follows: — 
" Whether the workmen should be paid compensation for the loss of over 

time payments which they have becn receiving in tre past. 
The union s case is that the workmen have been earning overtime wages for many 
years and overtime earnings had become almost a part of their regular wages 
and they have adjusted their family budgets accordingly , but as a result of the 
introduction of shifts and staggered systems of holidays the earnings have fallen 
down considerably . The cost of living has gone up and there is no hope that 
it will come down appreciably . In the past when shifts were introduced and 
earnings went down the Port Trust had given a speclal compensatory allowance 
to certain categories of employees to compensate for their loss in overtimo earn 
Ings. The union therefore demands that all the workmen affected by the new 
change and who have lost their overtime earnings should be paid the amount 
which they have lost because of the loss of overtime earnings from the date of 
Introduction of the changes. The Port Trust has submitted that the demand is 
untenable and that it would mean that the workmen would be receiving the pay 
ment in lieu of overtime allowance even though overtime work has been abolished 
by the engagement of additional workmen on an annual estimated cost of appro 
ximately Rs. 15 lacs . It is further urged that there is no case for giving com 
pensation for making changes to secure compliance with the provisions of a 
statute for the benefit of labour. The revised system of work under which the 
workmen have to work for 8 hours a day as against 16 hours or more is an im 
provement in the conditions of service , allording them reasonable facilities for 
rest and recreation which , according to the submission of the union itself , should 
bę rated higher than the evertime allowance . It is admitted that when in 1948 
an additional shift was introduced a special allowance was given to certain 
workers who had suflered loss of overtime carnings. The Port Trust has sub 
mitted that that allowance was sanctioned as a matter of expediency and in view 
of the heavy congestion then prevailing in the docks and even then it was felt by 
trustees that labour was being paid something which was not due to it. The 
case relied on by the workmen of compensatory allowance is that of hoiştmez , 
navganies and muccadams, labourers , chain boys and fitters in the hydraulic es 
tablishments of the Alexandra , Princess and Victoria Docks who used to put in 
overtime work regularly in the extent of 7 to 22 hours per week respectively . 
At a mecting of the Trustees on 26th April 1949 it was decided to give them 
compensatory allowance for loss of overtime on the following four conditions : 
( 1 ) It will be admissible only to those who were engaged on the work 

referred to , for a period of not less than six months prior to 1st. 

January , 1949 . 
( 2 ) The allowance will be paid only while on duty and will not form part 

of pay for purposes of Provident Fund , Special Contribution . Leave 

Allowances, Overtime, etc . 
( 3 ) It will cease in the case of a workman who is promoted to a higher 

post or is transferred to any other section in which the conditions of 

working are different. 
(4 ) It will be liable to be withdrawn If a workman refused to do overtime 

work in the morning between 7 and 8 and at any other time. If and 
when required . 


From the minutes of the meeting It is seen that one of the Trustees Shri Bullock 
remarked that the two shift system was resulting in smaller output and that it 
gave more leisure or off time to the workers and yet increases in wages were being 
proposed . Shri Master , another Trustee . asked the ground of the proposed al 
lowance observing that as Trustees they should examine the incidence of this 
and such other payments on trade and industry . He added that he was not 
against giving labour its due but the proposal amounted to giving labour some 
thing which was not due to it. To the above criticism the Chairman s reply 
was as follows: ( vide page 3 of the minutes) : 
" The Chairman said that cranemen and stevedore labour had a change of 

earning more under the incentive bonus scheme. The hoistmen and 
3 / 4 other categories are also doing consequential work of a character 
which is somewhat closely related to the work of the Hatch labour 
crane drivers and shore labourers who participate in the Incentive 
Bonus Scheme. When that Scheme was under discussion with the 
Union leaders like Mr. Asoka Mehta he actually claimed that the 
hoistmen and others who are now sought to be suitably compensated 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


2393 


should be allowed to participate in that Scheme. It was however 
administratively impracticable to provide for their participation in 
the Scheme and the only alternative was to make a small compen 
satory payment to the existing men who had been earning a fair 
amount by way of " overtime" for a considerable period in the past , 
but could not now do so by reason of two shifts working . The 
proposed payment is confined to a specific number of existing men 
and no new entrant to this field of work would be entitled to it , 
The men concerned have accepted this arrangement which is fair 

and equitable looking to their vested interests." 
From this it is seen that one of the considerations for sanctioning this special 
allowance was that while cranemen and stevedore labour had a chance of earning 
more under the incentive bonus scheme the hoistmen and other categories who 
did work which was closely allied were not allowed to participate in the scheme. 
As stated above the giving of the allowance was objected to by some of the 
Trustees on the ground that labour was being given something which was not 
due to it. It is therefore clear that the giving of compensatory allowance to 
these persons was an ad hoc solution designed to remedy an ad hoc situation and 
it does not furnish a good precedent for allowing compensation for overtime in 
the same manner in the present case . From the mlautes of the meeting dated 
5th December 1953 (Ex . C / 7 ) it is seen that before the implementation of the 
Minimum Wages Act the average overtime earned by the staff in the engineer 
- ing department at the rate of 11 times the basic wages was 10 : 06 lacs as against 
annual basic pay of Rs. 58 :01 lacs and that the estimated increase in the ex 
penditure caused by the arrangements necessary for implementing the provisions 
of the Minimum Wages Act was Rs. 15 lacs . A substantial portion of this in 
crease is due to the additional staff that had to be engaged but even so the over 
time allowance at double the ordinary rate of wages according to the provisions 
of the Minimum Wages Act is estimated to be Rs. 0 lakhs. This shows that some 
workmen still have the opportunity of earning overtime though not on the same 
scale as before , Ex A annexed to the written statement shows that in some of 
the shifts the workmen will earn some overtime, e . g ., as regards loco shed watch 
men the times of duty from 8 a . m . to 8 pm , and 8 pm , to 8 a .m , have remained 
unchanged and therefore these categories of workers will, it appears , continue to 
get overtime at double the rate as per the provisions of the Minimum Wages, 
Act , if the working hours on any day excecd nine or the total number of work 
ing hours in the week - exceed 48 . It was also stated during the hearing that 
wherever under the present arrangements there is a half working day on Saturdays 
for workmcn , they continue to do work till the second shift begins and earn 
overtime. A factor that has to be taken into consideration in considering the 
claim of the workmen for loss of overtime is that the Port Trust has paid to 
the workmen concerned in the dispute a sum aggregating about Rs, 36 lakhs as 
overtime payment by reason of the application of the Minimum Wages Act. 
The total sum paid in this behalf to workmen of all departments amounted to 
about Rs. 85 lakhs. In respect of some of the categories of workmen the pro 
visions of the Act were brought into force some time in 1951 and in respect of 
some others in 1952. The Port Trust has , however , given to all categories of 
workers the overtime payment from 21st March 1951 though it was not legally 
bound to pay a large part of the amount and the workmen have been paid lump 
sums ranging from three to four figure sums in individual cases and those who 
earned the most overtime wages have secured the largest amounts . It would 
have been much cheaper for the Port Trust to have arranged for shifts by en 
gaging additional staff than to pay such a large sum for overtime according to 
the Minimum Wages Act . The workmen who had worked overtime on the expecta 
tion of 19 times the basic pay have , therefore , secured windfalls aggregating, as 
stated above , a sum of about Rs. 38 lakhs. It is true that to get a lump sum 
(which can be spent away ) is a different thing from a permanent monthly al 
lowance , but still in considering the claim for compensation for loss of overtime 
earnings , the factor that the workmen concerned have been paid the large sums 
of money referred to above cannot be ignored . Taking this into consideration 
and also the relief which I have awarded in respect of Sunday work and night 
work under the head Demand No. 1 there is no case whatsoever for giving any 
further compensation for loss of overtime earnings . The demand , except to the 
extent of the relief given by me under the head Demand No. 1, is rejected . 

35 . Demands Nos . 3 and 4 . - These demands may be taken together . They are 
as follows: 
( 3 ) whether the workmen , like Crane - drivers and Greasers , who have been 

demoted from higher posts from 1st December , 1953, should be 
restored to their original posts ; and 


2394 


THE GAZTTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1984 


( PART 11 - Sc, 3 


( 4 ) whether the workmen , who were entitled to promotion to higher posts 

but who were not promoted by reason of their refusal to work ac 

cording to the changed system should be promoted to such posts . 
The union has stated in its statement of claim that a number of workmen after 
being promoted were demoted because they refused to work on Sundays and that 
they should be given promotion to their original posts from the dates of their 
demotion and granted all benefits including wages as if they were not demoted 
at all and that workmen who were entitled to promotion to higher posts but were 
not promoted should be promoted to the posts from the dates from which they 
were eligible and should be paid all benefits including wages as if they were pro 
moted from the due dates. The union has referred to a letter received from the 
Port Trust on 27th April 1954 in which it was stated that certain higher posts 
were created for the specific purpose of staggering of the weekly off of the men 
governed by the Minimum Wages Act, that the posts had been filled by the pro 
motion of the then existing stall but those who refused to work on Sundays and 
to take in lieu of it a day off on another day were demoted and the posts were 
Alled by the recruitment of outsiders. The Port Trust agreed to re - promote work 
men to the posts in question only if they agreed to work on Sunday if required . 
The Port Trust has in its written statement stated that on account of the imple 
mentation of the Minimum Wages Act it was necessary to create additional posts 
on a temporary basis so that necessary work could be continued to be done on 
Sunday and at the same time ensuring that every employee got the weekly day 
of rest. Appointments to those posts were made by promotion of the employees 
strictly in order of seniority . Before making the appointment it was explained 
to the employees that new posts had been created for implementing the provisions 
of the Minimum Wages Act and for permitting of the staggering of the weekly 
day of rest which had to be allowed thenceforth to all employees . They were also 
given to understand that the promotions were on an acting basis and temporary 
until further orders . In spite of this all the employees acting under advice of the 
union refused to work on Sunday , commencing from the very first Sunday follow 
Ing their promotion . In the place of the employees who refused to work on 
Sunday the Port Trust appointed by promotion other employees who were willing 
to work on Sundays, and in sections where no employees agreed to work on Sundays 
Outsiders were recruited . Some of the old employees who had signed an under 
taking agreeing to work on Sundays failed to abide by their undertaking and 
refused to work on the first Sunday after the signing of the said undertaking. All 
these employees had all along in the past bcen working on Sundays and their 
refusal was due to the directive of the union which expected that by stoppage 
of Sunday working the Port Trust would be coerced into accepting the union s 
demand for restoration of the former system of work . The Port Trust had no al 
ternative but to revert the abovementioned workmen to their substantive posts . 
The union by its letter dated 10th April 1954 demanded that the workmen who 
had been demoted should be again promoted . The Port Trust by its letter dated 
27th April 1954 offered to promote employees if they agreed to work on Sundays. 
This offer was with reference to employees in the hydraulic cstablishment where 
the posts had been kept vacant, but in other sections the posts had been filed by 
outsiders and the Port Trust was unwilling to discharge them . It has been urged 
that the discharge of these newly appointed workmen would 
have been unfair ; besides it would have required the sanc 
tion of the Labour Appellate Tribunal on account of appeals 
which were pending before that Tribunal. In pursuance of its agree 
ment contained in the letter dated 27th April 1954 the Port Trust has promoted 
all the employees in the hydraulic establishment. Some of the employees whose 
names have been given in the long lists annexed to the union s statement of claim 
have already been re - promoted and arguments were addressed to me in connection 
with particular workmen only . Ten workmen whose names have been given on 
p . 6 of the annexure to the statement of claim were promoted on 26th December. 
1953 and demoted later on for the reasons given by the Port Trust above. Their 
places have been Alled in by outsiders. So also employees Nos . 3 to 7 on p . 7 
of the annexure were promoted and subsequently demoted and their places have 
been Alled in by the outsiders Nos. 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 9 , 10 and 11 in the list on p . 8 
of the annexure were promoted and subsequently demoted and their places have 
also been Alled by outsiders. The workmen concerned had a grievance in respect 
of being asked to do full time work on Sunday without any extra wages , but they 
could have raised an industrial dispute instead of refusing to obey orders . Some 
of the employees who had refused to work have already bee promoted and I do 
not think it fair that the workmen who have been superseded by outsiders who 
are junior to them and recruited on a temporary basis should be permanently 
punished by loss of promotion and I, therefore , direct that these workmen re 
ferred to above be reappointed to the posts from which they were demoted within 


PART II — SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


2399 


a month of the date on which this award becomes enforceable . The claim of the 
union that demoted workmen should be restored to their original posts from the 
dates of their demotion and granted all benefits including wages as if they were 
not demoted at all is rejected . Under the direction contained k this paragraph 
the Port Trust will have to displace outsiders who have been appointed to certain 
higher posts , but these outsiders have been recruited on a temporary basis and 
It should be possible for the Port Trust authorities to appoint them to lower posts 
talling vacant by promotion of these men if they wish to be retained in the service 
of the Port Trust . 

36 . On p . 5 of the annexure to the statement of claim there is a list of 10 
workers who , according to the union , were promoted but have been demoted . In 
the course of the hearing it was also stated that though they have been demoted 
they are doing the work of higher grade from which they have been demoted . 
This has been denied by the Port Trust . It has been stated on behalf of the 
Port Trust that these men were promoted and demoted for refusing to do work 
on Sunday, but that it is proposed not to All the above mentioned vacancies. They 
were promoted under the following circumstances. Originally it was intended to 
work two shifts in the Hughes Dry Dock for docking and undocking, but 
actually the working of the system has shown that this is unnecessary and that 
the second shift should be an auxiliary shift in which the higher categories of 
posts are not required . In the auxiliary shift docking and undocking is not to 
be done but only some preliminary work necessary for docking and undocking has 
to be done and therefore these vacancies have not been filled , The same applies to 
the workers whose names have been given on p . 7 of the annexure to the statement 
of claim . As these categories of posts were additional posts created temporarily 
and the Port Trust does not want to fill them I do not consider it proper to direct 
that these workmen should be appointed to the higher posts . It is not the case 
that outsiders or any men junior to them have been appointed to the higher posts . 

37 . On p . 10 of the annexure to the statement of claim the union has given 
a list of 42 workers of the hydraulic department who, it was alleged , were en 
titled to promotion but were not promoted on account of their refusal to work 
according to the changed system . The dispute in regard to these workmen was 
settled by an agreement dated 20th May 1954 between the Port Trust and the 
union , which is at Ex . C / 11 and promotions have been given according to this 
agreement ; so the dispute in regard to these workmen does not survive. 

38 . The union has given a list of workers at p . 9 of the annexure to the state 
ment of claim who are entitled to promotion but have not been promoted . In 
regard to these workmen it was stated on behalf of the Port Trust that no one 
junior to these persons has been appointed to any higher post and the question 
of retaining these posts is still under consideration . These vacancies arose some 
time in 1952 before the present dispute arose and are unconnected with changes 
made on account of the implementation of the Minimum Wages Act . Item 4 in 
the dispute referred to me for adjudication relates to the question whether the 
workmen who were entitled to promotion to higher posts but who were not pro 
moted by reason of their refusal to work according to the changed system should 
bę promoted to such posts . In the cases referred to above it is not that the 
workmen have not been promoted by reason of their refusal to work according 
to the changed system but because the Port Trust has so far not found it ne 
cessary to All the higher vacancies. The Port Trust has still under consideration 
the question whether it is necessary to All any of these higher posts but this is 
unconnected with the dispute regarding the refusal of workmen to work on 
Sundays , and it would not be within my jurisdiction to direct that these posts 
should be filled up by appointment of persons whose names have been given on 
p . 9 of the annexure to the statement of claim . But assuming that I have juris 
diction to do so , no good case has been made out for directing that the Port Trust 
should All these vacant posts and promote these men . The result is that demand 
No. 3 is granted to the extent stated above and demand No. 4 is rejected . 
Bombay , the 3rd September 1954 . 
( Sd .) K . R . WAZKAR, 

( Sd .) M . R . MEHER , 

Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. LR . 3 ( 3 ) /54 .] 
Secretary. 

New Delhi, the 27th September 1954 
S . R . O . 3155 .- - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri B . N . Bhattacharjee, a workman of the Kotma Colliery . 


2396 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2 , 1954 


[ PART II - Sec . 3 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION NO. 64 OF 1954 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of Industrial Disputes Act. 


SENT 


Shri L , P . Dave, B .A . LL .B . - Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Shri B . N . Bhattacharjee , Assistant Junior Surveyor of the Associated Cement 

Cos ., Kctma Colliery , Distt. Shahdol , Vindhya Pradesh - Complainant. 


Vs. 


The Management of the Associated Cement Cos . Ltd ., Kotma Colliery, P . O . 
Kotma Colliery , Distt . Shahdol, Vindhya Pradesh - Opposite party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri R . L . Malviya , Vice -President, Indian National Mine Workers Federa 

tion , Dhanbad - For the complainant. 
Shri R . H . Ranga Rao , Senior Personnel Officer , Associated Cement Com 

panies Limited , Bombay - For the opposite party . 


AWARD 
Thi, is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 

2 . The complainant alleged that he was working as a workman of the opposite 
party and that he had been dismissed on 15th October 1953 during the pendency 
of Reference No . 6 of 1952 without a permission of this Tribunal. He therefore 
claimed reinstatement with full pay for the forced period of unemployment. 

3 . The opposite purty urged that there was no dispute, much less an industrial 
dispute , between them and their workmen and the inclusion of their name in 
Schedule I of the order of reference of Reference No. 6 of 1952 was bad ; and also 
that the complainant was not a workmun . They further alleged that it was detect 
cd by their auditors that the complainant had made some over measurements in 
favour of contractors . An Inquiry was held in the matter and it was found that 
1 $ was against the interests of the opposite party to continue him in service . 
Instead of dismissing him , however , they took a sympathetic view and discharged 
him from service . It was, therefore, urged that the complaint should be dismissed . 

4 . It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as an 
Assistant Junior Surveyor at the Kotma Colliery of the opposite party . On 13th 
October 1953, he was given a month s notice of discharge. He has therefore Aled 
the present complaint, urging that the opposite party had committed a breach of 
Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act by discharging him during the pendency 
of Reference No. 6 of 1952 without the permission of this Tribunal. " 

3 . Three preliminary points were raised by Mr, Ranga Rao on behalf of the 
opposite party . The first was that there was no dispute, much less an industrial 
dispute , between the opposite party and their workmen and hence the order of 
reference in Reference No . 6 of 1952 was not valid and that the opposite party 
had moved the Government to delete its name from the order of reference . He 
also argued that the order was invalid because the Government of Inida did not 
appear to have applied its mind before passing the said order . In my opinion , 
these contentions cannot be accepted 

6 The order of reference in the above reference was to the effect that " whereas 
the Central Government was of opinion that an industrial dispute existed or was 
apprehended between the employers in relation to the collieries mentioned therein 
and their workmen regarding the matters specified in Schedule II annexed to the 
order , and whereas Central Government considered it desirable to refer the dis 
pute foi adjudication , it referred the said dispute for adjudication to this Tribunal 
in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act” . 

7 . It is an admitted fact that the Kotma Colliery belonging to the opposite 
party was one of the collleries specified in the above order . Schedule II annexed 


PART II-- SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBE .. 2, 1994 


2391 


to the above order dealt with the matters in dispute They were two The first 
was whether the workmen were entitled to full pay and allowances for the holi 
davs on 15th August 1950, 26th January 1951, 15th August 1951, and 26th January 
1952 The second point was whether the workmen should receive full pay and 
allowances for the holidays on the Independence day and Republic day in future 

8 Ir Ranga Rao contended that the opposite party was giving paid holidays to 
their workmen even before the order of this reference and there was no dispuée 
between the opposite party and their workmen rgarding giving of paid holidays 
on the Independence Day and Republic Day and hence it should not have been 
made a party to the above reference in this connection , it was alleged on behalf 
of the complainant that the opposite party was not giving full wages to their 
workmen on these holidays I was told by Mr Ranga Rao and the Manager of 
tne kotma Colliery that before August 1953, the colliery was payıng an equal 
amount of wages to all their workmen on the Independence Day and Republic 
Day and that this amount was worked out on the average earnings of all the 
workmen taken as a whole It was also conceded that some workmen therefore 
got less tnan one day s full wages on these days (while some got more ) It could 
not therefore be said that all workmen were being given full pay and allowances 
for the above holidays and nence it could not be said that there was no dispute 
on this point 


9 It may then be noted that even if the opposite party was paying full pay and 
allowances then (ze , in the past ) nothing prevented them from stopping payment 
in future Point No 2 in Schedule II of tne order of reference deals with the 
question of payment of full pay and allowances for these holidays in future It 
could not be said that no dispute could be apprehended on this point It may 
be noird that it is not necessary that there should be actually an existence of a 
dispute before a matter can be referred to adjudication , but it can be so referred , 
even if the Government is of opinion that the Industrial dispute is apprehended 
In the circumstances , I think that prima facie , an industrial dispute existed or at 
least was apprehended In any case, there is nothing to show that the opinion of 
the Central Government was not correct 

10 I may then mention that the opposite party wrote a letter to the Government 
stating that there was no dispute between it and its workmen and its name should 
be deleted I am told that the Government informed the opposite party that it 
should approach this Tribunal in this connection Admittedly the opposite party 
did not appear before this Tribunal nor did it make a request that its name should 
be deleted It would not now be open to it to say that the opinion of the Central 
Government that the industrial dispute existed and or was apprehended between 
the opposite party and its workmen was not correct 

11 I may then refer to section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act Under Sub 
Section ( 1 ) , tha Government can , if it is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
or is apprehended , refer the dispute for adjudication to a tribunal Under Sub 
section ( 2 ) . the Government would have to make a reference to a Tribunal if the 
parti - a to a dispute apply to it for the purpose Under Sub - section ( 3 ) the Goy 
erriment has the power to prohibit the continuance of a strike or lock -out after an 
industrial dispute is referred to a Tribunal Sub - section ( 4 ) deals with the powers 
of the Tribunal about the adjudication of points referred to it Sub - section (5 ) 
then lays down as tinder 
• Where a dispute concerning any establishment or establishments has been 

or is to be referred to a Tribunal under this Section and the appro 
priate Government is of opinion , whether on an application made to it 
in this behalf or otherwise , that the dispute is of suca a nature that 
any other establ shment group or " lass of establishment of a similar 
naturo is likely to be interested in or affected by , such dispute , the 
appropriate Government may at the time of making the reference or 
at any tim , thereafter but before the suhm ssion of the award include 
in that refcience such establishment whet er or not at the time of 
such inclus on any disnute exists or is apprehended in that establish 
ment group or class of establishments ” 


This would mean that even if there was no disore between a particular 
establishment an its workmen , the Government could include that establishment 
in an order of reference if the Government feit that the dispute was of a nature 
in which the other establishment or establishments were interested or were affected . 
Hence even if there was no dispute or even if no dispute was apprehended between 
the opposite party and its workmen regarding giving of holidays with full pay on 


2393 


TECA 


ON INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1984 


(PART II- 3 ... 


the Independence Day and Republic Day , the Government had power under Sub 
Section (5 ) of Section 10 to include its name in the order of adjudication . 

12 . It was however argued by Mr. Ranga Rao that the order of reference did 
not mention that the order was made under sub - section ( 5 ) , so far as the opposite 
party was concerned . In my opinion , it was not necessary to do so . If the order 
of reference only mentioned sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 , the contention of 
Mr. Ranga Rao would have some force ; because a reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) 
can only be made if the Government was of opinion that a dispute existed or 
was apprchended The existence or apprehension of a dispute regarding a parti 
cular establishment was not necessary for including that particular establishment 
in the order of reference under Section 10 ( 5 ) . In the present case , the order of 
reference mentions only Section 10 . It did not mention either Section 10 ( 1 ) or 
Section 10 ( 5 ) . It was really speaking not necessary for the Government to even 
mention that it was making a reference under Section 10 . It could have, without 
making any reference that it was acting in cxercise of powers conferred on it 
under Section 10 of the Act merely said that it was referring the dispute for 
adjudication to the Tribunal. The fact that the Government did not specifically 
mention that the order of reference was made under Section 10 ( 1 ) regarding 
particular employers and under Section 10 ( 5 ) regarding other employers could 
not mean that the Government had not applied its mind before making the order . 


13 . In this connection , I may point out that 1078 collieries were made parties 
to the above order of reference . It thus appears that all collieries existing in the 
whole of India were included in the above order of reference . This fact would 
clearly show that the Government had in mind Section 10 ( 5 ) and that it was 
making the reference in respect of all collieries , even though there may not have 
been any dispute on this point in a particular colliery or collieries . In my opinion , 
therefore, the order of reference was perfectly valid and as the opposite party was 
a party to it, Section 33 would apply to it and it could not dismiss , discharge or 
punish a workman or alter the conditions of his service to his prejudice during the 
pendency of such reference without the permission from this Tribunal, and if it 
did so , it would be guilty of breach of Section 33 and the aggrieved workman 
would be entitled to Alle a complaint under Section 33A . 


14 . The second objection raised by Mr. Ranga Rao was that the present com 
plaint has been Aled after an unreasonable delay and must be dismissed . Admit 
tedly the complainant s services were terminated from 15th October 1953. At 
that time reference No. 6 of 1952 was technically pending before this Tribunal. 
No doubt the award of this Tribunal was published in the Gazette of India dated 
10th October 1953 ; but under Section 20 ( 3 ) read with Section 17 A of the Act, pro 
ceedings must be deemed to have concluded from 10th November 1953 ; and till 
that date , the proceedings must be deemed to be pending before this Tribunal. 
By discharging the complainant on 15th October 1953 without obtaining the per 
mission of the Tribunal, the opposite party did commit a breach of Section 33 of 
the Act and the complainant was entitled to make a complaint under Section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 


15 . Section 33 of the Act prohibits an employer inter alia from discharging 
any workman concerned in any dispute which may be pending before a Tribunal 
without the express permission in writing from that Tribunal. Section 33A lays 
down that if an employer commits a breach of Section 33 , the aggrieved employee 
may make a complaint in writing to the Tribunal. This section does not provide 
in express terms the time during waich the complaint under that section should 
be made ; but it does not give a right to an aggricved workman to make a com 
plaint after an indefinite period . It is implicit in the section that the complaint 
must be made within a reasonable time of the act complained of. The true post 
tlon would be that a complaint under this section must be made as far as possible 
during the pendency of the proceedings and if it is made after such pendency , it 
should be made within a reasonable time. See the decision of Labour Appellate 
Tribunal of India in the case of General Motors ( India ) Limited , 1954, Vol. I , 
L . L . J ., p . 676 . It is true that this was a case under Section 23 of the Industrial 
Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 ; but that section is similar to Section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act and the principles laid down in the above case 
would also be applicable to the present case . 

16 . Now , in the present case , the complaint was filled on 19th June 1954. As I 
mentioned above, thc pendency of referencc was over from 10th November 1953. 
In other words, the complaint has been Aled more than seven months thereafter , 
It may also be noted that the complainant s services were terminated on 15th 
October 1953 and thus this complaint has been flled more than eight months 
thereafter . On the fact of it, therefore , the complainant has been guilty of un 
reasonable delay . I 


Lic 


PART 1 - $ 06. 31 


THE GAZETTI OF INDIA , OCTOBORZ, 1964 


- 


17 . In the complaint, the complainant has alleged that after his discharge, the 
labour union had made a representation in the matter to the Conciliation Oncer , 
but nothing had happened so far and that the delay in submitting the complaint 
should thercfore be excused . In its written statement, the opposite party admits 
that the labour union has made some representation in the matter to the Concilia 
tion Officer who had sent union s letter to the opposite party for its comments . 
It appears that the opposite party gave a reply to that letter on 14th November 
1953 , and a copy thereof was sent by Conciliation Officer to the labour union on 
19th November 1953 , and further that the labour union submitted their comments 
on 25th November 1953 . Nothing appears to have been done after this . 


18. Merely because a person approached the Conciliation Omccr , it would be 
no ground for his not Aling a complaint before the Tribunal within a reasonable 
time. After all, the Conciliation Officer s powers are merely recommendatory . 
Under Section 33A , an individual workman aggrieved by an act of the manage 
ment in commiting a breach of Section 33 of the Act, has a right to approach the 
Tribunal and the Tribunal is bound to treat that complaint as if it was a reference 
made to it. Thus normally in such a casc , a person should ordinarily approach 
the Tribunal rather than the Conciliation Officer . In any case , if the conciliation 
procecdings did not end within a reasonable time, a workman should not wait 
for an unreasonable time before filing a complaint. 


19 . In this connection , I may refer to the evidence of the complainant Exhibit 7 . 
In his examination in chief, he stated that about 10 or 12 days after he was given 
a notice of termination of his services , he left the colliery and went to Calcutta . 
He has further said that before this , he had happened to meet the Conciliation 
Officer , who had come to Kotma and gave a complaint to him in writing. It may 
be noted that the complainant has not made such an allegation in the complaint 
about his having himself made any complaint to the Conciliation Officer . On the 
contrary , in the complaint, it is stated that it was the labour union who had made 
a representation in the matter to the Conciliation Omcer . The complainant admits 
that he has not got a copy of the letter said to have been written by him to the 
Conciliation Officer . I do not believe his allegation that he had made a complaint 
to the Conciliation Officer . 


20 . The complainant then says after going to Calcutta , he was in search of a 
job and had to go to different places and he secured a job in April 1954 . He has 
further said that on 22nd May 1954 he went and saw the Conciliation Omcer at 
Dhanbad , who told him that Conciliation Officer had no power to order the manage 
ment to reinstate a person and he advised him that he should file a complaint 
before the Tribunal. He further said that after this he consulted a trade union 
workcr at Dhanbad and then wrote a letter to Mr. Nair (General Secretary of the 
Labour Union at Kotma) , informing him of all the facts and asking him to draft 
a complaint for him . The complainant lastly said that Mr. Nair then sent him a 
draft and the complainant typed the present complaint accordingly and signed and 
presented it to the Tribunal. In other words, the complainant almost gave a go -by 
to the allegation made in the complaint for the late filing of the complaint and 
put forward a new case that the delay in Aling the complaint was due to the fact 
that he had no idea about his right to Alle a complaint before the Tribunal till he 
consulted the Conciliation Officer , Dhanbad , in May 1954 . In my opinion , the 
statements made by the complainant in this connection are false . 


21 . If we look at the complaint filed before this Tribunal, it would appear that 
it was typed sometime in February 1954 . The letter of authority produced by 
the complainant along with the complaint in favour of Shri Malviya and Shri Nair 
was typed in 1953 and showed the address of the complainant as care of Labour 
Union , Kotma colliery. When these facts were brought to his notice, the com 
plainant admitted that he had written to Mr. Nair before February 1954 to prepare 
a draft for the complainant and that Mr. Nair did not send him a draft but sent him 
the necessary typed copies for signature in February 1954 . Ho further admitted 
that in 1953, Mr. Nair had advised him to Alle a complaint before the Tribunal. 
These statements of the complainant clearly show that his allegation that before he 
met the Conciliation Officer , Dhanbad, on 22nd May 1954 , he did not know that he 
could have fled a complaint before the Tribunal is false, 

22 . The above statements of the complainant further show that he had been 
advised in 1953 that he should Ale a complaint before t ie Tribunal, A letter of 
authority from him was typed in 1953, presumably before he left Kotma Colllery 
(ie, before the end of October 1953) . The complaint was sent to him for his 
signature at least in February 1954. In spite of all this, it was not till 19th June 


hi 


I 


TEL .. 


- 


. 


1984 that he Aled the present complaint. In my opinion , the complainant has been 
guilty of unreasonable delay and his complaint must be dismissed on this point . 


23 . The third preliminary objection raised by Mr. Ranga Rao was that the com 
plainant was not a workman . As I said above, it is an admitted fact that at the 
relevant time the complainant was working as an Assistant Junior Surveyor. In 
his deposition , the complainant has stated that his duties were to prepare maps, 
to make surveys underground , to prepare contractors bills and to check them , to 
prepare departmental progress reports , and to write usual correspondence . He 
had however later on to admit that it was not ordinarily his duty to write the 
correspondence but it was the duty of the Head Surveyor ; but if the Head Surveyor 
was absent, the complainant had to do that work . That would not make the com 
plainant a workman because he was doing this work not in his capacity as Junior 
Assistant Surveyor but because he happened to be acting for someone else at that 
time. 


24 . It may be noted that the complainant joined the colliery in 1948. For the 
first two years, he worked as apprentice and was then appointed as Assistant 
Junior Surveyor . It however appears that his duties , when he was first appointed 
to this post were not the same as at the time when his services were terminated . 
It appears that in 1951 or so , the colliery appointed a draughtsman . Thereafter 
several of the duties which the complainant was then performing were taken away 
from him and were performed by the draughtsman . It will be the normal duties 
of the complainant at the time of the termination of his services that would decide 
the question whether he was a workman or not. Looked at from this point of 
view , it is admitted by the complainant that after the appointment of a Draughts 
man in 1951, it was not the part of his ( complainant s ) duty to prepare maps. He 
however says that cven then he did sometimes prepare a map but it is not shown 
that he was asked to do so by his superiors . If a person does a particular work 
though it is not part of his duty to do so and though he has not been directed to 
do so by his superiors, he could not take advantage of the fact that he was perform 
ing that duty for saying that he was a workman . 


25 . The complainant has admitted that there were ( other ) clerks in the colliery 
who had been entrusted with the work of preparing the bills of the contractors . 
He has also admitted that during 1951 to 1953, he had not to prepare and had not 
prepared a single bill of any contractor. Thus his duties appear to have been 
concerned with supervision of contractors work and to check their measurements 
etc . Mr. Sen , Head Surveyor of the colliery , has been examined at Exhibit 15 
and he has said that in 1952 - 53, the complainant had not to do any underground 
work and that his duties during these two years were supervision of surface work , 
j. e ., buildings and siding, issuing instructions to contractors regarding their work 
and to see that the work was properly done by them . He has also to check their 
bills . Thus prima facie the main duties of the complainant were supervisory and 
did not include manual or clerical work . 


26 . It was urged that for the purpose of checking measurements the complainant 
had to hold the tape when he had only one chainman to help him , and this would 
amount to doing manual work . I do not agree with this . Even higher officers 
may sometimes be required to hold the tape in their hands for the purpose of 
checking certain mcasurements . But that is done by them as an anciliary part 
of their checking work and it would not constitute manual work . I am therefore 
not satisfied that the complainant had to do any manual or clerical work as part 
of his normal duty and he would therefore not be a workman as defined in the 
Industrial Disputes Act. The complaint would fall on this ground also . 


27 . Coming to the merits , it is not in dispute that a contract has been given 
for cutting earth to a contractor . The measurements of the work done by him 
were checked by the complainant in February 1953 and on the strength of it, the 
contractor s bill was passed and paid in that very month . In March 1953, the 
Controller of Accounts while auditing accounts felt that there was an over 
measurement. He therefore checked the measurements . The complainant s 
explanation was asked for and the complainant said that the manager himself 
should take the measurements . Accordingly the manager took measurements and 
found that there had been over measurements in the contractor s bill, Thereupon 
the excess over - payment of Rs. 750 and odd made to the contractor was recovered 
from him on 28th April 1953. Later on , the Controller wrote a letter about this to 
the Manager, who thereupon asked the complainant s explanation . The com 
plainant denied that there has been any over -measurement and said that the 
correct basis for actual measurement of the cutting of earth could have been taken 
on the strength of pillars left at the time but as the pillars had been removed after 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 


2401 


the bill was passed , no proper data was available for checking measurements . He 
further urged that the method adopted by the manager and the auditor was not 
correct . The opposite party s case is that they were satisfied that the complainant 
had been guilty in passing the over -measurements of the contractor and they 
therefore thought that it was not desirable to continue him in their service and 
that is why he was given an option to resign and on his not doing so , he was given 
a month s notice of termination of services . 


28. Whether there had been over -measurements or not, the fact remains that 
it was in March 1953 that the auditor had urged that there had been over -measure 
ments and fresh measurements were taken in March in the presence of the com 
plainant. On the strength of these new measurements , the contractor was made 
to refund the excess amount on 28th April 1953. It is true that the complainant s 
services were actually terminated in October, but the above facts disclose that the 
enquiries had already been started against him by the management in March 1953. 
The labour union was formed towards the end of April 1953 . In other words , 
proceedings had already been started in the matter before the formation of the 
union and the contractor had been made to refund the excess amount. Mr. Ranga 
Rao explained to me that the delay in taking action against the complainant was 
due to the fact that the manager had no powers in the matter and had to write to 
the Head Office . The manager has stated that a Senior Officer Mr. Bharucha had 
visited the colliery in July and at that time personally called the complainant and 
asked for his explanation . I thus do not believe the complainant s allegation that 
action was taken against him because of his alleged trade union activities . 


29. It was then urged that the allegations made against the complainant were false . 
The Tribunal has ordinarily no jurisdiction to interfere with the findings of the 
management, who is entitled to come to its own conclusions. All that the Tribunal 
must see is that the action of the management was bona fide and that there was 
evidence before them from which it was possible for them to come to a particular 
conclusion . I do not believe that the management were actuated by improper 
motives or that action was taken against the complainant because of his alleged 
trade union activities . Whether rightly or wrongly , the auditor and the manager 
were satisfied that the amount of earth said to have been cut by the Contractor 
was far in excess of the earth actually cut by him , and hence there were oyer 
measurements and over - payment. The method adopted by them was of taking 
measurements of the earth thrown by the contractor at a particular place after 
cutting it . This method may or may not be quite correct. Actually , it was argued 
that this method was more advantageous to the contractor , because loose earth 
would show more volume than what it would have shown before its being cut. 
As I said above, this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to consider whether the Anding 
of the management was correct or not; because so long as it was bona fide, it 
could not be said that it was not possible for the management to come to this con 
clusion . In this connection , it may be noted that the over -measurement was of a 
considerable extent. Out of a bill of Rs. 1, 901 - 10 - 0 the contractor had to refund 
an amount of Rs. 750. Unless there had been over - payment, I do not think that 
the contractor would have made a refund of such a large amount. 

30 . It was argued that the measurements checked by the complainant had also 
been subsequently checked by the Head Surveyor. The Head Surveyor has been 
examined at Exhibit 15 and he has said that he had not really verified measure 
ments and had accepted the complainant s verification as correct because he 
trusted him . The bill in question has been produced and it does not show that 
the Head Surveyor has certified that the measurements were verified by him and 
were correct. All that he has certified is that the measurements in the bill were 
correct as entered in the measurement book . The Accountant also checked the 
measurements with the measurement book . This would not mean that the 
measurements were actually verified by the Head Surveyor. It is true that Head 
Surveyor had a right to check the measurements ; but it is common knowledge 
that all measurements checked and verifled by a subordinate are not always checked 
and verified by the higher officer. Actually even the manager would have the 
right to check the measurements . In actual practice , however , he would not do 
so unless he has reason to doubt the correctness of the bill, People know that the 
chances of the measurements being checked by their superiors are not many . 
Merely because the Head Surveyor had the right to check the bills, it could not be 
said that there must have been no over -measurement or that the complainant 
would not have allowed over -measurement. 

31. It is true that the manager did not ask for the Head Suárveyor s explanation 
and also that he did not look at the measure book . This however would make no 
difference , so far as the present case is concerned . Even Af the measurements 


2402 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1984 


(PART II — 


c. 3 


mentioned in the bill were the same as in the measure book , It would not neces 
sarily mean that there were no over -measurements ; because if there had been a 
conspiracy between the complainant and the contractor, wrong measurements would 
have been written in the measure book , On merits also , therefore , I do not think 
that the action of the opposite party was unjustified. 

32. In the result, the complaint fails and is dismløsed , 
I pass my award accordingly . 
The 8th September 1954 . 

(Sd.) L . P . DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No. LR - 2 ( 365) III. ] 


S . R . O . 3156 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1847 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Sitaram Ram , a workman of the Sodepore Central 
Workshop of Messrs, Bengal Coal Company , Limited , 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 70 OF 1954 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave , B .A . LL .B . - Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Shri Sitaram Ram , Sodepore Central Workshop , P . O . Sunderchawk , P . S . 
Kulti , Distt. Burdwan , West Bengal — Complainant . 

V8. 
Messrs . Bengal Coal Co . Ltd ., Sodeporę Central Workshop , Sunderchawk , 
P . S . Kulti, Distt . Burdwan , West Bengal Opposite party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Jogen Gayen , President, Loyabad Labour Union , P .O . Bansjora , Distt . 

Manbhum - For the complainant, 
Mr. W . J. Jameson , Chief Personnel Officer , M / 8. Bengal Coal Co. Ltd ., P . O . 
Disergarh , Distt. Burdwan - For the opposite party . 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleges that he was a workman working as a turner in the 
Sodeput Central Workshop of the opposite party ; that during the pendency of 
Reference No . 6 of 1952 the opposite party suspended the complainant on 13th 
December 1952 on the ground that he had been arrested by the police . On his 
acquittal he approached the opposite party requesting them to re - employ him but 
they refused to do so . This amounted to change in service conditions of the com 
plainant by dismissing him , during the pendency of Reference No . 6 of 1952 with 
out the permission in writing from this Tribuna ). Hence the present complaint. 

3 . The opposite party contended that on 12th December 1952 the quarters of 
the complainant were searched and several materials were recovered there 
from . These materials were stolen property . The complainant was 
prosecuted for this and found guilty by the trial court , but on appeal, the Sessions 
Corrt gave him the benefit of doubt. Thereafter the manager issued a letter to 
the complainant explaining the charges to him and asking him for his explanation 
and stating that it he did not give a reply , his services would be considered ter 
ininated . No reply was received from him . The opposite party also urged that 
the complainant had obtained a job elsewhere but was later on dismissed for mis 
conduct It was urged therefore that the complaint should be dismissed 


P . 1 - 3u . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTUB . 


& 


og 


4 A preliminary objection was raised on behalf of the opposite party that the 
present complaint was filled after an unreasonable delay and should therefore be 
dismissed . As held in the case of General Motors ( India ) Limited , 1954 , Vol. I, 
L . L . J . page 676, a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
must as far as possible be filed while the proceedings are pending before a Tribunal 
and if it is filed thereafter it should be filed within a reasonable time. It has 
been held therein that though Section 33A does not provide in express terms the 
period during which a complaint thereunder should be filed , it is implicit in the 
section that it must be Aled within a reasonable time. If it is not fled within a 
reasonable time, it would have to be dismissed , 


5 In the present case , the complainant alleges that the opposite party committed 
a breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act by suspending and dismissing 
hin during the pendency of Reference No . 6 of 1952. The award in the above 
reference was published in the Gazette of India dated 10th October 1953 . Hence 
under Section 20 ( 3 ) read with Section 17A of the Act, the proceedings in the 
above reference must be deemed to have concluded from 10th November 1953. The 
present complaint has been Aled on 8th July 1954 , that is , almost eight months 
arte the conclusion of the above proceedings. 

6 . It may then be noted that the complainant was admittedly suspended from 
service from 13th December 1962 ( following his arrest by the police for being found 
in possession of stolen property ). One of the contentions of the complainant is 
that the opposite party could not suspend him for a period exceeding 10 days either 
as a punishment or pending an enquiry and the above suspension was therefore 
illegal. That would mean that the cause of action for this complaint arose on 
13th December 1952 and still the present complaint was filed as late as 8th July 
1954 ; that is , more than 18 months after the act complained of. Even if the date 
of suspension is not taken to be the date which gave a cause of action to the 
complainant, even then the cause of action arose somewhere in June or July 1963 . 
It appears that the complainant was convicted by the Magistrate but on appeal he 
was acquitted by the Sessions Court on 17th June 1953. Thereafter he applied to 
the management to be reinstated but without any effect. Thus the cause of action 
for making this complaint arose in June 1953 or soon thereafter . As mentioned 
above , the complaint has been filed on 8th July 1964 that is , more than a year 
thereafter . In any case , therefore, there has been unreasonable delay in Aling the 
present complaint. 

7 . It was urged on behalf of the complainant that he had approached the Con 
ciliation Omcer for redressing the matter and that is why he did not file the com 
plaint earlier . In this connection , it may be noted that the powers of the Concilia 
tion Officer were merely recommendatory . If a person wanted to take advantage 
of the special right given to him under Section 33A of the Act to make a complaint 
to the Tribunal, he should do so within a reasonable time. Really speaking , he 
should have approached the Tribunal rather than the Conciliation Officer ; but in 
any case, there can be no doubt that he should not have waited for a very long time 
to get his grievance redressed from the Conciliation Officer . If he found that the 
Conciliation proceedings did not give him relief within a reasonable time, he should 
have filed a complaint before this Tribunal at an early date . 

8 It may then be noted that the complainant was acquitted by the Sessions 
Court on 17th June 1953 . It appears that he sent an application to the manage 
ment on 12th August 1953 for reinstatement. No explanation is given as to why 
he should have waited for nearly two months after his acquittal before approaching 
the management. It then appears that he approached the Conciliation Officer on 
1st September 1953. He was asked on 15th September 1953 to produce four 
copies of his application . He did so only on 20th October 1953, i. e , he took more 
than a month to do so . It appears that conciliation proceedings were then Axed 
on 27th November 1953 but there is nothing on record to show as to what had 
happened at that time. On 28th December 1953 the Conciliation Oncer wrote to 
the complainant that he should approach him through a registered trade union . 
*Thereupon a letter was addressed to the Conciliation Oncer by the Sodepur Lab 
our Union on 9th January 1954 to take action in the matter . A reminder was sent 
by the complainant on 23th February 1954 . Thereupon conciliation proceedings 
were fixed on 1st March 1954 . It is again not clear as to what happened on that 
da z ; but probably the proceedings were adjourned to 15th March 1954. On 17th 
March 1954 , the Conciliation Omcer wrote two letters , one to the management and 
the other to the complainant In the letter to the management, the Conciliation 
Officer stated that he held discussions with the complainant on 15th March 1954 


2404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1964 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


and explained to him the views expressed by the management in his case and there 
upon he agreed to withdraw his case but requested the Conciliation Officer to 
WI ! 3 to the management to accept his resignation and to allow him to stay in the 
mire : quarters at least for a month , The Conciliation Officer therefore requested 
the management to let him know whether they agreed to this request of the com 
plainant. In the letter to the complainant, the Conciliation Officer stated that as 
he had been acquitted by the Sessions Court on giving him the benefit of doubt, 
it has been explained to him that he was not altogether free from doubt of the 
offence , and that thereupon he agreed to withdraw the case before the Conciliation 
Officer. He further wrote that he was writing to the management to accept the 
complainant s resignation and to allow him to stay in the mines quarters upto 31st 
March 1954. The complainant was therefore requested to send to the Conciliation 
Officer his letter of withdrawal of the case. It would thus appear that according to 
the Conciliation Officer , the complainant had agreed to withdraw his complaint 
made by him against the management. The complainant however denies this . 

9 . On 22nd March 1964 the complainant wrote a letter to the Conciliation Officer, 
stating that he was surprised at the letter of the Concllation Officer and he denied 
that he had agreed to withdraw his case . He also mentioned that as he had been 
acquitted by the Session Court, no matter on what grounds, he was legally entitled 
to be reinstated with payment of back wages. After this , there was some further 
correspondence between the complainant and the Conciliation Officer , but nothing 
came out of it and ultimately the present complaint has been Aled on 8th July 
1954 . 


10 . As I mentioned above, the complainant was guilty of laches and delay even 
in pursuing his remedy before the Conciliation Omcer. It was more than two 
months after his acquittal that he approached the Conciliation Officer. When the 
Conciliation Officer asked for coples , he took more than a month in supplying them . 
At least after the Conciliation Officer s letter of 17th March 1954, the complainant 
could have seen that he could not get relief from the Conciliation Oncer . I might 
repeat that in any case the Conciliation Officer could not have ordered the complain 
ant s reinstatement but could have at best made a recommendation to the manage 
ment to that effect . In the letter of 17th March 1954 , the Conciliation Officer ex 
pressed his opinion that the Complainant was not entitled to be reinstated . After 
this , at any rate , the complainant should have come to this Tribunal immediately . 
But he came about four months thereafter . In any case , there has been a very 
great and unreasonable delay on the part of the complainant and his present 
complaint must therefore be dismissed on this ground . 


11 . On merits , it may be noted that the action of the management in suspending 
the complainant for an indefinite period was against the Standing Orders , which 
lay down that a person cannot be suspended without pay for more than ten days 
whether it be by way of punishment or pending enquiry . It may then be noted 
that the complainant was convicted by the Magistrate but later on acquitted by 
the Sessions Court on 17th June 1953. It has been alleged by the opposite party 
that after this a letter was written to the complainant on 3rd July 1953 stating 
inter alia that they were satisfied that the complainant was guilty of the charges 
brought against him and the management could not place any further trust in him 
and he was therefore asked to show cause why he should not be dismissed with 
effect from the date of his suspension , The letter further mentions that if a satis 
factory explanation was not received , the complainant s services would be consi 
dered to have been terminated with effect from the date of his suspension . The 
complainant denies having received this letter . There is nothing to show that this 
letter was sent by the opposite party , much less that it was received by the com 
plainant. Admittedly it was not sent by registered post. If the management were 
contemplating taking action against an employee , they should have sent a letter 
of this type by registered post. It may also be noted that the letter goes to the 
length of mentioning that it no explanation was received , the complainant s ser 
vices would be considered to have been terminated with effect from the date of 
his suspension , The management could not have done so . They could have served 
a charge sheet on the complainant; and after hearing his explanation , if any , and 
if they were satisfled that the complainant was guilty, they could have dismissed 
him from the date of that order . The procedure adopted by the management there 
fore does not appear to be quite proper . 


12 . As mentioned above, it is not in dispute that the complainant was arrested 
by the police on 12th December 1953 on the ground that certain stolen property 
were found from his possession in his quarters . He was prosecuted for this and 


PART II - Sec. 3) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , OCTOBER 2, 1954 2405 
-- - - 
convicted by the Magistrate ; but on appeal, he was acquitted by the Sessions Court . 
The complainant has alleged that as he was acquitted , no matter on what grounds, 
he was legally entitled to be reinstated . I do not agree with this contention , Even 
it the complainant was acquitted by a court of law , the management could , if they 
were satisfied that he was guilty , takc action against him and dismissed him . In 
the present case, the Judgment of the Sessions Court shows that certain articles were 
found irom the room of the complainant from under his cot. The court however 
held that the evidence was not sufficient to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the 
coniplainant was in conscious possession of these articles , as it was for the prose 
cution to have proved that these articles were in the complainant s possession to 
his knowledge and that the complainant had obtained them fradulently . It has held 
th , t it was possible that the complainant was occupying the room but hold that the 
evidence did not show that on that particular day the complainant was the occupant 
or that he was the sole occupant. It also held that the complainant was in the 
verandah outside the room when it was opened and searched . I am not siting 
In appeal against the judgment of the Sessions Court , but I am mentioning these 
facts to show that though the Sessions Court may have held that the guilt of the 
complainant was not proved beyond reasonable doubt, it could not be said that 
the evidence was not such from which the management could not hold the com 
plainant guilty of the offence with which he was charged . Stolen property was 
found from the room of the complainant from under his cot and he was standing 
outside the room when it was opened and searched . There has been no sugges 
tion on his part that someone else was staying in the room or the like. I might 
repeat that the evidence may not be suſicient to establish the guilt of the com 
plainant beyond reasonable doubt in a criminal court; but if a domestic tribunal 
like the management came to the conclusion from this evidence that the complal 
ngat was guilty , it could not be said that the decision was wrong or perverse . I 
may also mention that speaking for myself , I think that the above circunstances 
would show that the complainant was found in possession of stolen property and 
the management would be justified in dismissing him , 


13. To sum up , I hold that the present complaint has been filed after an unrea 
sonable delay . I also hold that the dismissal of the complainant was not improper. 
In the result , the complaint fails and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

[No. LR - 2 ( 365 ) / I1.) 
The 18th September 1954 

( Sa .) L . P . DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 23rd September 1954 
S . R . O . 8157, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the General Assurance Society . 
Limited , New Delhi, and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed . 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( XIV of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Iridus 
trial Tribunal at Dhanbad , constituted under section 7 of the said Act. 

THE SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of the services of Shri Dharam Singh , Driver . General 
Assurance Society , Limited , New Delhi, was justified and what relief and / ür 
compensation , if any, should be paid to Sri Dharam Singh . 

[No. LR . 90 ( 27 ) /54 .] 
P . S . EASWARAN , Under Secy. 


2406 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . OCTOBER 2, 1954 [ PART II — Sec. 3 
= = S SA = = 

New Delhi, the 25th September 1954 
S . R . O , 3158 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948 (XI of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 2087, dated the 21st June 1954, 
namely : 

In the said notification under the heading “ ( 2 ) Representatives of employers " , 
for entry 2 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
“ 2. Shri C . K . Nair , Under Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 
of Defence, New Delhi." 

[No. LWI- 2 ( 25 ) / 54 .] 


S . R . O . 3159. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 5 of the Minimum Wages Act , 1948 (XI of 1948 ) , the Central Govern 
mcnt hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, No . S . R . O , 2089, 
dated the 21st Junc 1954 , namely : 

In the said notification under the heading “ ( 2 ) Representatives of employers " , 
for entry 2 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 2. Shri C . K . Nair , Under Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry 
of Defence, New Delhi.” 

[No. LWI- 2 ( 27 ) /54. ] 
A . P , VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY TIIE MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISITEI) BY THI, MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, (1954 


