REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- 


= 


- 


= 


- 


= 


No. 16 ] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1959 /CHAITRA 28, 1881 


- - . 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 8th April 
1959 : 


Issue 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


- - -- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


50 


S .O . 737, dated 

1959 . 


2nd April , Ministry of Steel, Fixution of prices at which coal/ 
Mines and I uel cokc overloaded at any weigh 

bridge may be sold by col 
liery -owners . 


S . O . 738 , dated 2nd April , 

1959 . 


Du . 


Fixation of prices at which 
coal, cokc may he sold by 
collicry -owners . 


Du. 


51 S. O 739 , dated 4th April, Ministry of Infor - Approval of films specified 
1959 . 

niation and Broad - therein . 

casting, 
52 S .O . 786 , dated 7th April, Ministry of Steel , Amendment to S .O . 737 , dated 
1959 . 

Mines and liuel. 2nd April , 1959. 
S .O . 787, dated 7th April , 

Amendment to S . O . 738, dated 
1959 . 

2nd April, 1959 . 
53 ( S . O . 788 , dated 8th April, Election Commis Calling upon clected members 
1959 

sion , India . 

of the Legislative Assembly 
of Orissa to elect a person to 

fill a vacancy . 
S . O . 789, dated 8th April, 

Do. 

Appointment of dates and time 
1959 . 

for the above election (S . O . 

788 ). 
S . O . 790 , dated 8th April Do . Appointment of Shri Nilakantha 
1959 . 

Rath , Secretery , Orissa Le 
gislative Assembly to be the 
Returring Officer for the 
above election ( S .O . 788 ) 


( 997 ) 


938 


[PART II 


THE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : 1PRIL. 18. 1939 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 

-- - - - 

- = = - - - 
No. and date Tuued by 

Suhjeet 


Issue 
No . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5 .O . 791, Jarcu 8111 

1459 . 


April, I locuon Commis- Appoinilment of Shri Jaipal Jee, 
510n , India . 

Asstt. Secy ,, Orisou Legislative 
Assembly to assist the Re 
turning Office in connection 
will thic abiisa Llection 
( S . D . - 36 ). 


1u 


S . O . 02 , alud Sth April, 

I ixation of hours during which 
17 . 9 . 

pull shall be taken in cutincc 

Hith all so clection 
S . O . 7841. 

- -- - 
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART II - SECTION 3 – Sub - section (ii) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued hy the Ministries of the Govern 

inent of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and hy Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
S . O . 795 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
cancels its Notification No . 434 / 12 / 58 ( 1 ) dated the 22nd January , 1959 / Magha 
2 , 1880 (Saka ) published in the Gazette of India , Extraordinary, Part II — Section 
3 – Sub - section ( ii ), dated the 24th January , 1959 Magha 4 , 1880 . . 

[No. 434 / 12 / 58 ( 1 ) .} 

By order 
S . C . ROY , Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
S . O . 796 .- -Whorcas the election of Shri Manak Lal, as a member of the House 
of the People from the Mandsaur constituenry, has been called In question by an 
election petition duly presented under part VI of the Representation of the People 
Act 1951 (43 of 1952 ), by Shri Umashanker Muljibhai Trivedi, of 11 Neemuch 
Cantonment, Madhya Pradesh ; 

And whereas tha Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 86 of the said Act, for the trial of the 
said election petition dismissed the sald election petition by an order dated the 
15th January , 1958 , published in the Gazette of India , Extraordinar ) , dated the 
6th February, 1958 . 

And whereas the High Court of Madhya Pradesh , Jabalpur, on the first 
appeal No. 32 of 1958 , remitted the casc to the Election Tribunal tur taal in 
accordance with law by its order dated the 8th May , 1958 , published in the Gazette 
of India uated the 14th June, 1958 . 

And whercas the Election Tribunal after further trial of the petition has 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 103 of the said Art , sent a copy of its 
order in the said petition to the Commission . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the said Act , 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal. 


SFC . 3 ( 11)] THE GVEICE OF INDIA : APRIL 1. , 1939/ CILIITRI 18 , 1881 


909 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


IN THE COURT OF SHRI C . B . KEKRE , MEMBER , ELECTION TRIBUNAL , 

UJJAIN ( M . P . ) 

ELECTION PETITJON No. 62 OF 1957. 
Umashanker Muljibhai Trivedi of 11 Necmuch Cantonment, Madhya 
Pradesh - Petitioner. 

Versus 
1. Shri Manaklal of Rampura. 
2 . Shri Koksingh , Mantrı Ram -Rajya Parishad , Mandsaur . 
3. Shri Shyam Singh, Dalauda Sugar Mill, Dalauda . 
4. Shri Shivdarshanlal of Mandsaur. — Re: pondents . 

ORDER 
( Passed on this the 3rd day of March , 1959 ) 
1. The defeated candidate, Shri Umashankur Trivedi, petitioner has lilcd this 
Election Petition under Section 80 of the Representation of People Act for setting 
aside the election of respondent No. 1, Shri Manuklal, to the Lok -Sabha from the 
Mandsaur Parlianientary Constituency in th : Mudhya Pradesh . Ile las also 
prayed that he be declarecl duly elected . 

2. The Petitioner , wlio is a Barrister -at- law , is an oflice tegler , being 
Trensurer , of Jan -Sangh Party . He was a sitting incmber of the Lok - Sabha at the 
time of prcvious general election held in 1957. Respondent No. 1 belongs to 
the Congress Party . Respondent No. 2 who was also a candidate at the election 
had retired from the contest. There were , thus, fous candidates left in the field 
llie pctitioner , and the respondents 1, 3 and 4 . The polling took place in some 
parts of the constituency on 25th February , 1957 and in the rest of the constitu 
ency on 1st March , 1957. Respondent No. 1 secured 77789 votes , while petitioner 
secured 56928 votes . The former was declared clected . 

3 . Parts of this constituency adjoin the Chiltorgarh district of Rajasthan whcrc 
Meera , Sati Padmni and Rana Pratap are held in esteem bordering on reverence. 

4 . Before the dates of poll two pamphlets , Exhibits P . 1 and P , 2 , with almost 
identical contents were printed , Exhibit P . 1 it Bharat Printing Press , Mandsaur , 
and the other , Exhibit P . 2 , at Neemuch Printing Press , Neemuch . These pamph 
lets appcar to have been widely distributed in this constituency . They purport 
to be issued over the signatures of a large number of persons most of whom are 
described as Sarpanch Or Pancha of Gram - Panchayats . 

5 . These pamphlets and essed to the electors of this constituency , called upon 
them to vote for respondent No. 1 Congress Party candidate . The heading of the 
pamphlets in bold letters is as follows: 

"मंदसार संमद क्षेत्र के मतदाताओं 
मति पसनी, महाराणा प्रताप और मीरा का चित्तौड़ श्राप दे रहा है 

बैरिस्टर त्रिवेदी ने जनता को धोखा दिया 


कानी माई की सोगं का बदला जरूर बना " 


6 . The pamphlets contain other matters which I necd 1101 set out. Though 
that matter was siated to be false and relating to the personal character of the 
petitioner , no issur has been framed on those allegation for reasons given in my 
order dated 22nd December, 1958 , 

7. It may here be mentioned that at the stage of cvidence the petitioner put a 
question to the very first vitness to prove falsely of certain allegations in those 
pamphlets . This qucstion was disallowed as falsity of the allegations was not 
subject matter of any issue. The petitioner hen applied for framing an issue on 
the basis of allcgations in the pctition that the pamphlets contained false state 
monts relating to his personal character . That application was rejected , as also 
a subsequent application for leave to amend the petition by stating therein that 
the matters referred to were not only false , but the respondent No. 1 knew and 
believed the allegations in the pamphlets against the petitioner to be false , or did 
not believe them to be true. 


910 


I HE CAZETTF OF INDIA APRIL 18 1959 /CIIAITRA 28 1881 


[PART II 


8 I shall set out only such allcgations of the petitioner in respect of which 
issues have been framed He alleged that the pamphlets , Exhibits P 1 and P2 
were published and distributed by respondent No I at certain places mentioned , 
and that he had read them out at the places named and on the dates specified in 
the petition According to the petitioner , the respondent No 1 had thereby com 
mitted the corrupt practice of exercise of undue influence , in as much as it 
amounted to interference with the free exercise of electoral right by the voters , 
because the voters were induced to believe by contents of the pamphlets , that this 
peditioner would be rendered an object of spiritual displeasure, having been cursed 
by Sati Padmni and Meera 


9 The other grounds on which the election of respondent No 1 was sought 
to be set aside and regarding which issues have been tramed are - - 
( 1) Canvassing at polling stations, calling upon voters to vote for respond 

ent No 1 
( 2 ) Leaving the column meant for entering the symbol of the candidate 

blank against the name of the petitioner in the list of contesting 

candidates at certain polling stations 
( 3 ) Presiding Officer at polling station No 32 not allowing polling 

of petitioner to enter the polling station 
( 4 ) Unauthorised person being allowed to enter the polling station No 17 
10 There were other allegations in the petition , such as propaganda that the 
Jan Sangh Party was responsible for the murder of Mahatma Gandhi, preventing 
workers of petitioner from carrying on canvassing at certain polling stations, 
government servants working for respondent in the election , appeal to the voters 
to vote for government, appeal to Muslims to vote for Congress Party which were 
not made subject matter of issue either for want of particulars , or because the 
allegations made did not constitute grounds for setting aside the election 

11 The petitioner was heard exparte against respondents 2 , 3 and 4 Respond 
ent No 1 denied that he either published or distributed the hand -bills , Exhibits 
P 1 and P 2 , or read them out at the places mentioned in the petition It was 
denied that the matter contained in the hand -bills interferred with the free 
exercise of the electoral right or amounted to undue influence by inducing voters 
to believe that the petitioner would be rendered an object of divine displeasure , 
or was cursed by Meera , and Şatı Padmni The allegations forming the other 
grounds for setting aside the election as set out in paru No 9 above were also 
denied 

12 It was alleged that the petition had not been presented by person duly 
authorised , and that as the necessary deposit had not been made in accordance 
with section 117 Representation of People Act the pet. ilon was liable to be 
dismissed 
* 13 The last mentioned objection was tried as a preliminary issue, and my 
predecessor, who had been appointed as Member Election Tribunal for the trial 
of the petition , passed order dated 15th January , 1950, upholding that objection , 
and dismissed the petition for non -compliance with requirements of section 117 
of the Act On appeal the Madhya Pradesh High Court set aside that order , and 
remitted the petition for trial in accordance with law When the petition came 
up before me I discarded the issues that had already been framed , and framed 
fresh issues 

14 The parties went to trial on the following issues, and my finding on them 
are given against each - - 
1 Whether the petition has been presented by person duly author 
ised in writing by the petitioner ? 

Yes . 
2 Whether Respondent No 1 published and distributed handbıll 

marked A between the dates of nomination and 1st March , 
1957 ? 

Yes 
3 Whether this handbill attempted to induce the voters to believe 

that the petitioner will be rendered an cbject of spiritual 

censure ? 
4 ( a ) Whether Nandkishore distributed news- sheet DHWAJ calling 

upon voters to vote for Respondent No 1 at polling stations 

Nos 2 and 3 in Sitamau Constituency ? 
( b ) Has the result of the election been materially affected thereby ? 


No 


NO 
. 


No . 


No. 


No. 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 911 

- - - - - 
5 . ( a ) Whether column meant for symbols was blank against the 

name of the petitioner in the list of contesting candidates 
exhibited at polling stations — Bawal, Morwan Ratangarh , 

Bhojpura Lasur, Janakpur , Tarapur and Bhadwa ? 
(b ) Has it materially affected result of the election ? 
8 . ( a ) Whether the presiding officer at Polling station No . 32 Jaora 

town did not allow the polling agent of petitioner to enter 

the polling station ? 
(b ) Has it materially affected the result of election ? 
7 . ( a ) Whether on 1st March , 1957 an unauthorised person , Tehsil 

dar of Malhargarh , entered the place fixed for poll at polling 

station No. 17 ? 
(b ) Has it materially affected the result of election ? 

No. 
8 . ( a ) Whether Fakhruddin and Ramswaroop on 25th February , 

1957 canvassed within 100 yards of every polling station in 

Neemuch ? 
(b ) Whether this has materially affected the result of the 
election ? 

No . 
9 . Is the election of Respondent No. 1 void ? 
10 . Is the petitioner entitled to be declared elected ? 

No. 
REASONS FOR FINDING 
15 . Issue No. 1 . -- The petition bears the endorsement of Under Secretary to 
the Election Commission to the effect that it was presented by Shri K . Y . Borkar, 
who had been duly authorised by the petitioner to present it . This making of 
endorsement was an official act , and there would be presumption that what was 
stated in the endorsement that Shri K . Y . Borkar had the required authority was 
correct, and that the Election Commission had satisfied itself about the existence 
of such authority . I, therefore , find this issue in the affirmative. 

16 . Issue Nos. 4 ( a ) (b ) , 5 ( a ) ( b ) , 6 ( a ) (b ) , 7 ( a ) ( b ) , and 8 ( a ) (b ) , — The burden 
of proving the allegations covered by issues 4 ( a ) , 5 ( a ) , 6 ( a ) , 7 ( a ) and 8 ( a ) 
lay on the petitioner . He has not adduced any evidence on the points covered 
by these issues. I find them in the negative. It follows that issues 4 ( b ) , 5 (b ) , 
6 ( b ) , 7 ( b ) and 8 ( b ) have to be answered in the negative. I answer them 
accordingly . 

17 . Before considering issues 2 and 3 it is well to point out that it is now 
a well settled proposition that an inquiry into allcgation about commission of 
corrupt practice is quasi - criminal in nature, and that the standard of proof 
required is the same as is required of prosecution to establish the guilt of an 
accused . It is unnecessary to set out numerous decisions on this point since 
this proposition is now well established . Though the burden of proof is on the 
petitioner , the respondent is not absolved of his duty to adduce evidence regard 
ing facts within his special knowledge. 

18 . It is also to be pointed out that the witnesses examined by the petitioner 
are , except Gyarsilal P . W . 2 and Shamlal P . W . 8 , active workers of the Jan 
Sangh Party of which the petitioner is an office bearer . Similarly , the wit 
nesses examined by respondent No. 1 worked actively for the election campaign 
of respondent No. 1 at the time of last general election . However, this circum 
stance by itself would not be enough to discard their evidence. That would 
only necessitate that their evidence should be scrutinised carefully before accept 
ing it . 


19 . Issue No. 2 .- - The evidence adduced by the petitioner on this issue may 
be classificd as follows: — 
1. The evidence of witnesses who saw the respondent No. 1 at thc Neemuch 

Printing Press when Exhibit P . 2 was being printed there on the 
20th February , 1957 and his taking active interest in having it printed . 
The witnesses on this point are Kanhaiyalal P . W . 3 , Chitarmal P . W . 5 

and Shamlal P . W . 8 . 
2 . Witnesscs who saw respondent No. 1 emerging out of the press with 

bundles of copies of leaflet Exhibit P . 2 , getting into a car , and 
distributing copies of P . 2 when the car proceeded towards Neemuch 
City from the press. Gyarsllal P . W . 2 , Uderam P . W . 4 and Kishan 
chand P . W . 7 depose about this . 


- 


- 


912 THE GAZETTE OF INDII : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28. 1831 [ PART II 

- - - - - - - 
3 . Witnesses who saw iespuident No. 1 distributing pamphlet. Exhibit 

1 . 1 and P . 2 al va IGUS places and reading them out at the places 
mentioned against caduti witness . They are : - Laxminarayan l andey 
P . W . 1 ( at Ringnod ) , Mohansingh P . W . 6 ( at Mandsaur ) , Vinal 
kumar P . W . 9 ( ni Phanpura ) , and Satyanarayan P . W . 10 (at Suwoli 

and Ratangarlı ) , und Virendra Kumar P . W . 12 (at Singoli ) . 
Khumansıgh P . . . 11 and Sundarial Paiwa P .W . 13 say about distribu 

tion of pamphlets Exhibits P . ) and P . 2 , but they do not say that 
It was respondent No. 1 who was distributing them , I shall theie 
fore not discuss their evidence since issuc No. 3 relates to publishing 

and distribution of these pamphlets by rcspondent No . 1 . 
20. The witnesses examined by respondent No. 1 haye deposed , in order to 
counter the cvidence of witnesses ior the petitioner , that no such distribution 
of paniphlets took place. It is signilicant that all these witnesses of respondent 
No. 1 who liad toured the entire constituency exiensively for the clcction cam 
paign of rc pundent No . 1 , Sar at they never came across these pamphlets 
Exhibits P . I and P . 2 at any time during the election . It may b - ihat it is 
tried to be suggested that these pamphlets were brought into existence later 
to crcate basis fur lection petition . That suggestion cannot for a moment be 
countenanced . 


21 . As carly as the 22nd February 1957, even before the polling took place , 
and only two days after the 20th February 1957 when P . 2 is said to have been 
printed , and immediately after it is said to have been distributed , thc pctitioner 
had addressed a letter Exhibit P . 6 to one Ramchandra one of the person ; pur 
porting to have signed these pamphlets . Therein he had referred to the distri 
bution of such pamphlets . It is, therefore , beyond doubt that such pamphlets 
were in fact distributed even before the 22nd February 1957 . 

22 . These pamphlets were meant to run down the petitioner , a candidato 
opposing respondent No , 1 the Congress Party candidate , and to canvass votes 
for the latter. It is but natural that these pamphlets which form an important 
item in the clection campaign of the Congress Party , would be widely distri 
buted . They were certainly not got printed just to be put in cold storagc. Yet , 
it is strange that none of the witnesses for respondent No. 1 , who toured the 
constitucncy should have come across a single copy of such pamphlets even 
though they toured the constituency when these pamphlets arc said to haye 
been distributed . I am , therefore, not prepared to believe the statements of 
these witnesses of respondent No. 1 that thcy did not come across any such 
pamphlets . That would justify a conclusion that thc witnesses , including respon 
dent No. 1 , are not telling the trutli when they say that they did not come across 
any such pamphlets . Their cuirente 15 liable to be vicwed with some suspicion . 

23 . I shall now consider than evidence adduced by the petitioner that respon 
dent No . 1 was at Neemuch Priniing Press when Exhibit P . 2 was being prinicd 
there . P . W . 3 Kanhaiyalal, who is an employce of another printing press at 
Necniuch , says that he was called on the 20th Februa " y 1957 at about 11 A , M , 
by Rameshchandra , the proprietor of the Neemuch Printing Press , to set in 
working order the treadle machine of his Press which had stopped working due 
to some disorder, He went there , found the matter of Exhibit P . 2 on the 
machine, repaired it , and in the meanwhile respondent No, 1 along with one 
Gulabchand Sethi, who is the President of Mandal Congress Committcc, reached 
there . He was requested by respondent No. 1 to stay on to ensure that the 
machine would not again stop working and at about 2 or 3 P .M . respondent 
No. 1 and Gulabchand left with bundles of copies of pamphlet P . 2 in a car , 
and while proceeding in the car respondent No . 1 was distributing pamphlet 
P . 2 . 


24 . His evidence was criticized for the l espondent No 1 on the ground that 
though he came to know ot Exhibit P . 2 affecting prospects of petitioner s clec 
tion he did not communicate with the petitioner and that he received no payment 
for the services rendered by him His evidence , it was submitted , was there 
fore liable to he rrjcrtor as not reliable, I do not think so . He rendered casual 
scryice to a sister concern and it is nothing unnatural that he was not paid 
for such trifling seryice . At the time of printing of P . 2 this witness was not 
assisting the petitioner in the rection campaign There would be nothing un 
natural if he had not pursued thr inatter by contacting the petitioner . He 
remembers the date of printing to br 20th Fcbruary 1957 because two days 
later on the 22nd February 1957 a pamphlet in reply to allegations in Exhibit 
P . 2 was got printed at the press where he is employed . I do not find anything 


913 


Su , 311 THE GVETTE OLIVI:11 : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CUNIRA : , 1881 
- -- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - 
in 111 . cross - examination to doubt him as a person who has come forward just 
to obligt the petitioner who belongs to the same political party to which he 
belongs. 

25 . Clut ırmal P . W . 5 is a trader who gets his forms and bills printed at the 
Neemuch painting Press . He says that on hearing that a pamphlet containing 
allegations against the petitioncr was being printed at the Neemuch Printing 
Press hic ult of Curiosity went there to see what exactly was being pillited , and 
gained accesy inside on the pretext of having to get his bills printed . He 
corrohurates Kanhaiyalal P . W . 3 about Exhibit P . 2 being in the process of 
printing and about respondent No . 1 and Gulubchand leaving with copies of 
pamphlets and going away in a car distributing them . He is a member of Jan 
Sangh Party to which the petitioner belongs . But that alone, as already stated 
earlitil , should not be enough to reject his ( vidence . His evidence finds Support 
from that of Shamlal P . W . 8 who does not belong to the Jan Sangh Party and 
who cannot be said to be a person interested in the petitioncr . 

26 . Shamlal P . W . 8 sells news - sheet Sanket which is printed at thc Neemuch 
Printing Press . He goes to that press daily to render account of the Sales . 
According to him when on that particular day he went to the press he found 
copics of P . 2 on the floor which he tied up into bundles at the instance of the 
propilctur Rameshchandra and handed them to respondent No. 1 and Gulab 
chand Sethi, I see nothing 111 the cross - examination of this witness , who appcary 
to be a di interested one, to view his testimony with suspicion . 

27 . In order to counter this evidence respondent No. 1 has examined Kastur 
chand R . W , 7 and Girwarsingh R . W , 11 , who say that they had gone on the 20th 
February 1957 to the Necmuch Printing Press to have their own respective 
printing work done. They got it done on that day , but did not see Exhibit P . 2 
being printed there or respondent No . 1 being at thut press . There is also the 
denial of respondent No. 1 from the witness - box about his visiting the Neemuch 
Printing Press at any time during the election . 

28 . Kasturchand R . W . 7 does not at all refer to the presence of Girwarsingh 
R . W . 11 at the Neemuch Printing Press on that day , when he visited it , which 
according to him was on the 20th February 1957. He signed an order for that 
printing work done at his instance. That document would have been the best 
cvidence about the date of his visit to the press . No attempt was made to have 
that document before the Tribunal. He would have it believed that he was 
sitting all alone from 9 - 30 A . M . to 4 P . M . in the room where the treadle machine 
was . Yet, he could not state the size of the room though he had the boldness 
to deny the suggestion that the room is so small that it cannot accommodate 
any person cxcept the operator. 


29 . The presence of Girwarsingh R . W . 11 at that time is not referred to by 
Kasturchand , though the former would have it believed that he was talking to 
Kasturchand during the time he was at the press . No questions were put either 
to Kanhaiyalal P . W . 3 , or Chitarmal P . W . 5 or Shamlal P . W . 8 about the presence 
of thesc two persons at the press on that day. Girwarsingh R . W . 11 could 
remember the date of his visit to the Neemuch Printing Press which was 
ncarly two years ago; yet , he could not remember the date of his visit to Ujjain 
at the last Kartik -Mela which had taken place only about two months before 
his examination . He would have it believed that he remained at the press all 
the time from about 1 l M , to 4 P . M . just to see that the printing work which 
he wanted to be done was completed . Yet, he leaves without getting that print 
ed matter . He could not remember what else besides the printing machine 
was in that room where he was sitting and where the composing department 
of the press was. 


30 . Respondent No. 1 has not been straightforward when making statements 
from the witness -box . Hc denied that he had at any time visited Neemuch 
Printing Press during the election . This press prints thc news- sheet Sanket 
which was supporting the candidature of respondent No. 1. It is , therefore , 
hard to believe that during his visits to Nromuch Respondent No. 1 would not 
be going to the press. It is also hard to believe his statement that he never 
came to know of Exhibits P . 1 and P , 2 which are important from the point of 
view of his election campaign , till he received notice of this election petition , 
especially so when these pamphlets must have been widely distributed during 
the time respondent No. 1 was touring that locality . He was not even prepared 
to admit an indisputed fact that Ringnod and Dhodar are near each other . When 
pressed further he had to admit that he did not know the distance between the 
two places. 


9.14 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28. 1881 [L ART II 
- - - - - 

31. In paragraph 5 of his deposition he categorically denied his visiting to 
Cheetakheda and Ringnod during the entire election . In paragraph 22 of his 
deposition he admitted that he had attended a Harijan Sammclan at Cheeta 
kheda . When put a specific question whether he would deny that this was held on 
the 21st February 1957 he stated that he would not be prepared to say that 
that statement was incorrect. Thus his statement that the Sammelan was held 
before the election campaign started appcars to have been made just to get 
over the contradiction in his admiss . on about having attended the Sammelan 
and his denial earlicr of having never visited Cheetakheda. 

32 . Respondent No . 1 visited Jaora on the 21st February 1957. He was there 
on the 23rd February 1957 and 24th February 1957 . Ringnod is only about five 
miles from Jaora ( vide R . W . 3 Kundanmal ) , a prominent worker of the Congress 
party , Bhikamchand R . W . 2 lives at Ringnod . He was in charge of arrange 
ments to be made on behalf of the Congress Party at the various polling booths 
in Ringnod Revenue Circle . It, therefore , appears unnatural that respondent 
No. 1 who was at Jaora on the 21st February 1957, 23rd February 1957 and 
24th February 1957 would not be visiting Ringnod only five miles away . In view 
of these comments regarding the testimony of respondent No. 1 I do not think 
that his denial of his visiting to Neemuch Printing Press on the 20th February 
1957 would be cnough to negative the evidence of Kanhaiyalal P . W . 3 , Chitarmal 
P . W . 5 and Shamlat P . W . 8 that he in fact was at the Neemuch Printing Press 
when Exhibit P . 2 was eing printed there. 

33. Santoshchandra R . W . 1 , Mansingh R . W . 8 and Nandramdass R . W . 12 have 
been examined by the respondent No. 1 to show that on the 20th February 1957 , 
when respondent No . 1 is said to be at the Neemuch Printing Press at the time 
of printing of Exhibit P . 2 , he could not have been there as on that day he was 
at Bhanpura, Rampura , Kukdeshwar and Manasa . The evidence of Santosh 
chandra does not make it improbable that after respondent No. 1 left him at 
Bamori on the 20th February 1957 at noon the latter could not have been at 
Neemuch by 2 P .M . on that day . The distance between Bamori and Neemuch 
is not such as would make it impossible for respondent No . 1 to be at Neemuch 
in the afternoon of that day . There is evidence that all the electioneering tour 
was done in a Jeep . 

34 . Mansingh R . W . 8 and Nandramdass R . W . 12 though they dcpose about 
identical events , namely respondent No. I reaching Rampura at A2 - 30 P . M ., 
leaving there at 3 - 30 PM , their accompanying him to Kukdeshwar and being 
with him till 9 P . M . at Manasa, do not refer to each other, as being present with 
respondent No. 1. Mansingh R . W . 8 does not say that Nand : amdass was with 
respondent No, 1 during the tour and Nandramdass does not say that Mansingh 
was with respondent No, 1 . Moreover , respondent No. 1 himself has not said 
a word about his being with these two witnesses on the 20th February 1957, 
at the places mentioned above . I, therefore , find relying on the evidence of 
Kanhaiyalal P . W . 3 , Chitarmal P . W . 5 , and Shamlal P . W . 8 that respondent 
No. 1 was present at the Neemuch Printing Press when Exhibit P . 2 was being 
printed there, and that he left the press with bundles of copies of Exhibit P . 2 . 


35 . I shall now consider the evidence about respondent No. 1 distributing 
this pamphlet P . 2 at Neemuch on the 20th February 1957 . The three witnesses 
of the petitioner mentioned above, whom I have believed , say that on coming 
out of the Printing Press respondent No . 1 and Gulabchand Sethi got into a 
car , and proceeded towards Neemuch City and on the way distributed Exhibit 
P . 2 . Gyarsilal P . W . 2 , who is an independent witness, says that he saw certain 
persons going in a car which started from the Neemuch Printing Press and 
distributing Exhibit P . 2 . Though he does not refer to respondent No. 1 specifi 
cally , his cvidence corroborates the testimony of witnesses mentioned above 
and others to whom reference will be made later , that the persons going in that 
car from the Neemuch Printing Press distributed copies of Exhibit P . 2 . 

36 . Uderam P . W . 4 has his shop opposite Neemuch Printing Press . Similarly , 
Kishanchand P . W . 7 had at the relevant time his chemist shop near the Neemuch 
Printing Press . They both corroborate the version that respondent No. 1 did 
distribute copies of Exhibit P . 2 when proceeding in a car from Neemuch Print 
ing Press . I see no reason to disbelieve them . The mere fact that the petitioner 
and these witnesses belong to the same political party would not be enough by 
itself to discredit their testimony . They are persons who have their shops close 
to Neemuch Printing Press and could have witnessed the incident. The evidence 
of Gyarsilal P . W . 2 , an independent witness , does establish that such an incident 
took place . I find that respondent No. 1 did distribute copies of Exhibit P . 2 at 
Neemuch on the 20th February 1957 


SEC . (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITKA YE , 1881 


OS 


- - 


- 


- 


37. There now remains to consideration the other evidence about distribu 
tion and reading out of pamphlets Exhibits P . 1 and P . 2 by respondent No . 1 
at other places. Laxminarayan Pandey P . W . 1, a medical practitioner of Jaora , 
says that two or three days before the 25th February 1957, which was the date 
of poll, he saw respondent No. 1 distributing copies of Exhibit P . l at Ringnod 
in the Bazar Chauk . I have already pointed out that the testimony of respon 
dent No. 1 that he did not visit Ringnod during the election is not such as would 
inspire confidence , Bhikamchand R . W . 2 does support the statement of respon 
dent No. 1 on that point, but for reasons alrcady stated that statement is open 
to doubt. He says that Laxminarayan Pandey P . W . 1 did not visit Ringuod two 
or three days before the date of poll, and thus wanted to belie the statement 
of Laxmina ayan about his visit to Ringnod . Bhikamchand admits that he used ! 
to be out of Ringnod every day till evening for election campaign , and hence , 
that statement of his does not negative the truth of what Laxminarayan Pandey 
said . 

38 . According to Mohansingh P . W . 6 , he saw respondent No. 1 distributing 
copies of Exhibit P . 1 al Mandsaur on the 24th February 1957 at about 8 A . M . 
He himself was given a copy by respondent No. 1 . The latter was at Jaora 
on the 23rd February 1957 and the 27th February 1957. Even the case of the 
petitioner is that the pamphlet Exhibit P . 2 was distributed by respondent No. 1 
at Ringnod, which is ncar Jaora , on the 23rd February 1957. There is therefore 
no occasion to doubt the statement of Kundanmal RW . 3 that the respondent 
No. 1 was at Jaora on the 23rd February 1957 and the 24th February 1957 . 
It is , therefore, not safe to rely on the statement of Mohansingh that at 8 A .M . 
on the 24th February 1957 respondent No . 1 was at Mandsaur. Moreover , accord 
ing to Kalyan R . W . 10 , who was at Sitamau for election campaign of Congress 
Party till the 24th February 1957, he had seen Mohansingh at Sitamau on 
24th February 1957 at about 8 A . M . and again at 9 A . M . Rajmal, R . W . 4 , whose 
testimony cannot be challenged except on the ground that he is the father of 
the candidatc of Congress Party for Assembly Seat from Sitamau constituency , 
which by itself would not be enough to discredit his testimony, also had seen 
Mohạnsingh at Sitamau on the 24th February 1957. I, therefore, do not place 
reliance on the evidence of Mohansingh about the respondent No. 1 distributing 
copies of Exhibit P . 1 at Mandsaur on the 24th February 1957 . 

39 . Vimalkumar P . W . 9 is a sitting member of Madhya Pradesh Vidhan Sabha 
from the Garoth Constituency . He lives at Bhanpura and deposes about a public 
meeting convened by the Congress Party at Bhanpura two days before the poll, 
which took place on the 1st March 1957, and which respondent No 1 had addressed , 
and at which he read out Exhibit P . 1 . There is absolutely nothing in his cross 
examination to discredit his testimony . 

40 . That there was a meeting at Bhanpura on the 27th February 1957 convened 
by the Congress Party is evident from the statement of respondent s witnesses 
Santoshchandra RW . 1. He, however, says that at that meeting respondent No. 1 
was not present, and that he did not sec Vimalkumar at that meeting. Vimal 
kumar was watching the meeting from inside the shop of Nana Nai near the 
place of that meeting, and even according to Santoshchandra R . W . 1, a person 
sitting inside the shop would not be visible to person at the place of meeting . 
Thus, the fact that Santoshchandra did not see Vimalkumar when the former 
was presiding at the meeting does not belie the statement of the latter that he 
was present and watching the meeting from Nana Nai s shop . 


41 , Respondent No. 1, it is said , was not present at that meeting. That meet 
ing and the meeting held the next day at Bhanpura were to be addrsscd by 
important personages who had been called from outside, especially to address 
these meetings. The Jhalawar Naresh had addressed the meeting on the 27th 
February 1957 and Ajitsingh from Delhi had addressed the meeting on the next 
day . It is very improbable , when such important persons were to address the 
clection meetings in favour of candidature of respondent No . 1 in his constituency , 
that he would not be present. Respondent No. 1 has denied having read out and 
distributed Exhibits P . 1 and P . 2 at Bhanpura . I have earlier commented on 
his testimony as not being straightforward , I therefore , believing Vimalkumar 
P . W . 9 find that respondent No. 1 did read out Exhibit P . 1 at meeting at Bhanpura 
on the 27th February 1957. 

42. Virendrakumar P . W . 12, who had contested the Assembly seat from Jawad 
constituency , in which lies the village Singoli, says that at Singoli he saw respon 
dent No . 1 addressing an election meeting and after the address copies of Exhibit 
P . 1 being distributed there . This according to him , was at 9 P . M . on the 20th 
February 1957. The presence of respondent No. 1 at Neemuch in the afternoon 


- - 


Malin Bern Big Travel the e 


nd the puble. The vulation of orth of Kali 


916 

IHI GHIZETTE O INDIA IIRIL 18 1997.) / CU IIIlI 1981. PART II 

-- - - - - = 
or thai day does not render the story of Virendrakumar iinprobable . Respondent 
No. I atinis being at Neemuch in the afternoon could have reached Sirigoli by 
9 P . M . Tlie mere fact that Vimalkumar belongs to a political party in opposition 
to the Congress Party to which respondent No. 1 belongs would not be enough 
to discielit his evidence. I believe him , and find that at S ngoli the painphlet 
I . 1 was distributed at a meel. rig addressed by respondent No. 1 . 

43 . The result of the above discussion of evidence is that I find that it has 
bet ll satisfactorily proved that respondent No . 1 distributed copies of Exhibit 
P . 2 at Nicmuch , at Ringnod , that he distributed copies of Exhibit P 1 at Singoli 
and that he read uut Exhibit P 1 at a public micting at Bhanpura . 

44 . 1.7ºye No. 3 , — The guestion now for consideration is whether the publishing 
of the pumphlets P . 1 and P , 2 by respondent No. 1 amounts to corrupt p - actice 
of undur stifuence. The heading of the pamphlets has already bern reproduced 
earlie . . A literal translation thereof would be as follows: 

Voters of Mandsaur Parliamentary Constituency, the Chittor of Suti Padmni, 
Maharana Pratap and Mccra is cursing. 
Barrister Trivedi has deceived the public. The violation of oath of Kali 

Mui must be revenged ( or the violator of oath of Kali Mai must be 

made to suffir ) . 
45 . It is unnecessary to set out the contents of the rest of the pamphlets . The 
octitioner does not rely on those contents as constituting undue influence . The 
xist of the contents is that the petitioner managed to obtain ticket of the Jari 
Sangh Party for contesting the election to the Lok Sabha from Chittor - Udaipur 
constituency by forming pauts willi vested interests who preyed on the public , 
and though he had sworn by Kali-Mai to pay attention to the grievances of the 
constituency he having won the election clcan forgot the elcctorate and thus 
had violated the oath of Kali- Mai, for which he should be made to suffer . There 
are also allegations about his not benefitting the constituency , and his entering 
into some sort of understanding with Shri R . B . Muity involving payment or 
monctary consideration for managing to obtain ticket to contest from the Mand 
saur Parliamentary constituency . There is than eulogy of the Congress Party 
Candidate , the respondent No . 1, and an appeal to vote for him . 

46 . The petitioner submitted that the publication of the heading of these pam 
phlets by itself was cnough to interfere with the frec cxcrcise of the electoral 
right inasmuch as it conveyed to the electors that the petitioner had been cursed 
by Satı Padmni, Mccra , Maharana Pratap and Chhitor . These personages and 
Chhitor command reverence in that locality , and the impression crcated and 
intended to be created , it was submitted, was that the petitioner having been 
thus cursed was a most undesirable , person , and whoever voted for him would 
also incur the curse of Satı Padmni, Meera and Maharana Pratap who were 
regarded in that arca where the pamphlets were distributed as local dcitics. 

47 . Before dealing with these submissions I will refer to the decisions cited 
by the petitioner , Abdul Rouf us, Makhtar Ali ? E . L . R . 340 is a decision laying 
down the standard of proof required to establish corrupt practice . I have alrcady 
stated carlier in para. 17 above what should be the standard of proof. Inayatulla 
vs. Dewanchandra A . I . R . 1959 Madhya Pradesh 58 is also another decision 
supporting that view . 

48. In Jagjiwandass Shetuy vs Sanjiwa Shetty 3 E . L . R . 358 it was pointed out 
that corrupt intention is essential for establishing corrupt practice. The view 
that hope of spiritual benefit would also amount to undue influence did not find 
favour with the Tribunal deciding that case , and it was observed that when 
use of spritual authority was made basis for allcgation of corrupt practice of 
undus influence it was the provisa ( a ) ( ii ) to section 123 ( 2 ) that would be 
attracted . Thus , in the view of that Tribunal theic should be fear of spritual 
displeasure and not hope of spritual benefit in order to make out practice of 
undue influence where spritual authority is said to have been brought into use. 

49 . Shardulsingh vs. Hukamsingli , 6 E . L . R . 316 is also to the same cllect and 
it was pointed out therein that where influence is said to be by religious appcal, 
it should be shown that it was made to appear to the persons addressed that 
non - compliance would be considered to be irreligious or sinful. It was also 
pointed out that the proviso to section 123 ( 2 ) of the Representation of People 
Act showed what kind of interference was contemplated to bring the case under 
the corrupt practice of undue influence . In Gurnamsingh vs. Pratapsingh , 
7 E . L . R . 338 it was observed that statements invoking divine pleasure or spritual 
benefit for those who vote in a particular way would not fall within section 


Src. $ ( 11 )] IIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CITAITRA 28 , 1881 
— . - - - - - - - - 

--- - - - - - - 
123 ( 1163 . It was pointed out II) Jujharsingh 73 . Bherolal, E . L . R . 457 that 
mtuous if inducement to amount to indue influence must be uchi as to trave 
no 1 ul will to the voter in txercise of his choice . 

50 . Dr. K . N . Gairola 2 5 . Gangadhar Maithani, 8 E . L . R . 105 was a case where 
nine ot tre condidates had given out that displeasure of local deities would be 
incurred by not voting in a paiticular way and that was held to amount to undue 
influenca , 

51. ( 1 ) Bhikaji KesToT JAli ? . B . N . Biyani, 10 E . L R , 357, ( 2 ) M . M . Man 
juran [ K . C . Abrahan lv LLR. 370 , ( 3 ) Bhagwandatt 775. R . R . Gupta , 11 
E .LR, * % , ( 4 Sangapa 28. Shivmurty Swami, 13 E . L . R . 365, ( ited by the peti 
tionei 90 RO1 deal with uncle inf _1 - 111 e except the casc No. 2 The first deals 
withı questival of necrissity for pa li ulars . The second case deals with among 
other . 1774 , avec und also pom . lll that a priest by aclvising votrz to voto 
in a puill ular way would not be CXC . cisins undue iniluence . It is only threat 
or appeal to fear terror or superstition of those addicssed that would amount to 
undue influence. The third case lays down that when evidence is adduced by 
both Icies absence of particulars in the petition regarding corrupt practice would 
not be ma crial and would not warrant Cismissal of petition on that ground . 
The lourth decision only lays down that 1rcoh instances of corrupt practicr already 
alleged can be allowed to be introduced by way of anendment. 

52. The gist of the decisions relating to corrupt practice of unduc influcnce 
is that the appcal to the voters must be by such method as leaves no free will 
to thier and that if allegation vi undur influrnce is sought to be based on use 
of spiritual authority it is the proviso to section 123 ( ? ) which would be attracted . 

53. It is in the light of these considerations that it has to be ascertained 
whcther the publication of the pamphlets P . 1 and P . 2 by respondent No. 1, in 
the senso of his reading them o it at public meetings and distributing them , 
amounts to indue influence . For that purpose the contents of the pamphlets 
have to be scrutinised. The heading of the pamphlets on which the petitioner 
relies to support his contention nowhere mentions that Sati Padmni, Meera or 
Maharana Praiap had cursed the petitioner. What the hcading mentions is that 
Chhitor hallowed by being associated with those persons who lived there in the 
past was cursing the petitioner. It is only a rhetoric way of putting that the 
petitioner had incurred the wrath of the public of Chhitor , 


54. Some of the witnesses for the petitioner have said that by that sentence 
they understood that Sati Padmni, Meera , and Maharana Pratap had inflicted a 
curse on the petitioner. Accepting that that allcgation could be understood in 
that way by the ulliterate masses and villagers among whom the pamphlets were 
distributed and read out, I fail to ver how that would amount to corrupt practice 
of undue influence, since there was no insinuation that persons helping the peti 
tioner would also be subject to the wrath of Sati Padmni, Meera and Maharana 
Pratap , who are revered in that locality almost as local dcities. The statement 
that pctitioner was a mun cursed by them or had incurred their wrath cannot by 
any stretch of imagination be understood to mean that any person who would 
vote for him would also meet the fate of the petitioner. "Virendrakumar P . W . 12 
and the petitioner U . M . Triycdi P . W . 14 have said that many voters whom they 
contacted had understood that statement in the pamphlet in that particular way. 
Not a single such person has been examined . Moreover , the petitioner himself 
had not initially when filling the petition thought that that statement in the pam 
phlets was being understood in that way . He had stated in para , 14 of the petition 
that the publication of the pamphlet amounted to undue influence because thereby 
respondent No 1 attempted to induce the electors to believe that the petitioner 
(not the voter ) would be rendered an object of spiritual censure . 

55 . The statement in the pamphlet " Kali-Mai ke saugandh ka hadla jarur tena " 
was relied upon as constituting undue influence . It was submitted by the peti 
tioner that the suggestion intended to be conveyed by that appcal was that the 
petitioner havin , violated the oath of Kali Maj should he dralt with by not voting 
for him and that a person who did not so punish the petitioner (by not voting 
for hiin ) would be displcasing Kali Mai or showing disrespect or indifference to 
Kali Mai. I am unable to agree that that was the suggestion or that any person 
could understand that appeal to mean that if he voted for the petitioner he would 
be failing in his duty to Kali Mai. It would not be permissible to read into 
the contents of the pamplilets something which was not there and which was 
not myrn hinted at. 

56 . The petitioner then arsund thai there would be undue influence in the 
general sense if anything wil done to interfere with the free exercise of electoral 
right, and that the proviso to section 123 ( 2 ) related to special kind of undue 


918 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAIRA 28 . 1881 


PAFT II 


influence. It was a gued that oven if no threat of divine displeisure was con 
veyed by what was stated in the pamphlets P . 1 and P . 2 , all the same, if the 
publishing of the contents left no free will to the voter the publication by respon 
dent No. 1 would amount to undue influence . The argument, as I understand 
it, seems to be that if the pamphlets conveyed that the petitioner was such a 
person who had been cursed by or had incurred the wrath of Sati Padmni, 
Maharana Pratap and Meera (who are revered by the general inass of people 
in that area ) , the voters would consider themselves duty bound not to vote 
for such a person and hence would be left with no free will in cxercise of their 
choice I am afraid that interpreting the contents of the pamphlets in that way 
would be reading into them something that was not there . All that the pam 
phlets contain is that the petitioner by his acts and omissions had incurred the 
wrath of the public of Chhitor. I would , therefore, find that the publishing of 
the pamphlets P . 1 and P . 2 docs not amount to undue influcnce . I And issue 
No. 3 in the negative. 


57. It was argued by the petitioner that even if his allegation about corrupt 
practice under section 123 ( 2 ) Representation of People Act being committed were 
held as not proved , the election of respondent No. 1 was liable to be declared void 
because he had committed the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act . 
He relied on Abdul Jalil vs. Ratindranath A . I. R . 1958 Assan 51 for his sub 
mission that even though no issue had been framed regarding corrupt practice 
under section 123 ( 4 ) being committed , if the evidence disclosed that such a 
corrupt practice had been committed then there was nothing in the way of 
recording a finding to that effect and declaring election of respondent No . 1 void 
on that account. 


58 . In the Assam casę, one of the grounds on which the petitioner, had challanged 
the election was commission of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) by publishing 
certain matter, namely that leftists (who had formed united front to oppose the 
Congress Party candidate ) do not admit the independence of India , and if they 
are elected the Muslims would be driven out of Bharat and will create feuds with 
neighbouring countries. This matter was read out by the respondent at certain 
meetings . It was held that such publication did not amount to corrupt practice 
under section 123 ( 4 ), and that as it amounted to corrupt practice under section 
123 ( 2 ) the tribunal was justified in setting aside his election on thc ground of 
commission of corrupt practice of undue influence (which had not been alleged 
in the petition ) as the Tribunal had not allowed evidence to be led on that parti 
cular head of corrupt practice which had not been alleged and that the conclusion 
of the Tribunal could be based on the evidence that was already there and adduced 
in support of a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) . In that case the matter 
published by itself was held to amount to a threat of injury to elector . 


59. The converse however , that when corrupt practice under section 123 ( 2 ) is 
alleged finding of commission of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) would be 
justified , on the evidence adduced in support of corrupt practice of undue influence 
would not hold good . In establishing corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) the 
petitioner has not only to prove that the statement published relating to liis 
personal character was false but has further prove that the respondent believe it 
to be false or did not believe it to be true . In the present case there has been no 
enquiry whether certain statements in Exhibits P . 1 ard P . 2 relating to personal 
character of petitioner were false, and whether they were believed to be false or 
not believed to be true by the respondent No. 1. He had no opportunity to ineet 
any such case, 


60 . The decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Maganlal Bagdi Vs. 
Hari Vishnu Kamath First appeal No. 5 of 1958 dated 25th April 1958 was relied 
on by the petitioner for his submission that the evidence on record was enough to 
establish that the contents of Exhibits P . 1 and P2 could not have been believed 
to be true by respondent No. 1. It was submitted that he had made no enquiry 
whether the persons purporting to have signed these poingihlets had really issued 
them , and as such he could not have believed that they did issue them . In the 
decision relied on by the petitioner the falsity of statement that Shrimati Sucheta 
Kriplani advised the voters not to vote for the respondent was undisputed and it 
was also found that it could not have been believed to be true by the respondent 
since to his knowledge Shrimati Sucheta Kriplani had not issue any such appeal, 
There is no material on record to show that the persons purporting to have signed 
P . 1 and P2 had not issued these pamphlets , or that respondent No. I knew that 
they had not signed them . The mere fact that he did not contact them to ascertain 
if they had issued these pamphlets would not be enough to hold that he knew that 


Sec. 9 ( ii)] TUF GAZETTE OF INDIA . APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28 , 1881 919 
- - - - - 

= = = = = = 
they had not issued such an appeal. I am , therefore , unable to accept the con 
tention of the petiticner that on the material on record finding of corrupt practice 
under section 123 ( 4 ) being committed by respondent No. 1 should be recorded even 
though no enquiry was made about commission of such corrupt practice. 

61. Issues No. 9 and 10 . . . Since the corrupt practice of undue influence has not 
been establşhed , and since no other allegations that were put in issue on the 
basis of which election of respondent No. I was sought to be declared to be void 
have been established , I answer issue No. 9 in the negative. It follows that issuc 
No. 10 has to be answered in the negative . I answer it accordingly . 

62 . The election petition is dismissed with costs . The petitioner shall pay the 
costs of respondent No . 1 exccpt the costs of witnesses of respondent No. 1 (which 
shall be borne by respondent No. 1 ) and shall bear his own costs . Counsels fee 
wiil be Rs 300. 
The 3rd March , 1959 . 

C . B . KEKRE, 
Member Election Tribunal, Ujjain ( M . P .) . 

[ No . 82 /62 / 57 /6219.7 


New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 
S . O . 797 . -. -Whercas the election of Dr. Balkrishna Vishwanath Keskar as a 
member of the House of the People from the Musafrkhana Constituency , has been 
ralled in question by an election petition duly presnted under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951) , by Haji Abdul Wahid , son 
of Hafiz Abdul Ghani, resident of Mohalla Khairabad , District Sultanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh ; 

And whereas the Elction Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission in 
pursuance of the provisions of section 86 of the said Act , for the trial of the said 
election petition , dismissed the said election petition by an order dated the 26th 
September, 1957 , published in the Gazette of India , Extraordinary , Part II, Section 
3 , dated the 28th October , 1957; 

And whereas the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad , on the writ petition 
No. 1044 of 1958 filed by Haji Abdul Wahid , quashed the said order of the Election 
Tribunal by its order dated the 19th August , 1958 published in the Gazette of 
India , Extraordinary , Part II , Section 3 , Sub -section ( li ) , dated the 13th October , 
1958 , and remanded the said petition for further trial; 

And whereas the said Election Tribunal after further trial of the petition has, 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 103 of the said Act, sent a copy of its 
order in the said petition to the Commission ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the said Act , 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal. 
IN THE COURT OF MEMBER , ELECTION TRIBUNAL , UTTAR PRADESH 

ALLAHABAD 
Present : Srl K . K . Banerji 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 451 OF 1957. 
Haji Abdul Wahid son of Hafiz Abdul Ghani, resident of Mohalla Khairabad , 

district Sultanpur, U . P . - Petitioner. 


Versus 
1 . Dr. Balkrishna Vishwanath Keskar, Minister for Information and Broadcasting , 

India , New Delhi. 
2 . Sri Viddyadhar Bajpal son of Sri Chondra Dutt Bajpal, resident of Mohalla 

Khairabad , district Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh - Respondent. 


JUDGMENT 
This is an Election Petition Alled under section 81 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951. by the petitioner , Haji Abdul Wahid , hereinafter to be 
referred as the Petitioner , against Dr . Balkrishna Vishwanath Keskar , Respondent 


- 


- 


- 


92 ) THE GA / ETTL OF INDI1 : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28 , 1881 [PART II 
= = 

- - - - - - 

- - - 
No. 1, hercinafter to be relerred as Respondent, and S , i Vidya Dhir Baypal, 
Respondent No. 2 . who has not opposed the Petition and has been cxalilled by 
the Ptitioner as his witness , (P . W . 25 ) . 

The Petitioner s case is that the President of Indian Union issued writ on 
the 15th of January , 1957, directing the clectorate to elect their represirialives to 
the Lok Sabha before 31st of March , 1957 . ( It appears there is a nistalic in the 
dato given in the petition . On behalf of the Respondent a copy uſ the Sazette 
of India extraordinary , Part 11, has been filed , and from the Notification at appears 
that llie Presulent of India was pleased to call upon all Parliamentary Culitu 
encies all the various States , including Uttar Pradesh , to clect membe . s accord 
ing to the provisions of section 14 of the Representation of the People Act. This 
Notitication is dated the 19th of January , 19 .57 . It appears, therefore , that the 
President of India callcd upun the Parliamentary constituencics to elect members 
for the louse of the People on the 19th of January , 1957 . The discrepancy in 
the dites , however , is not material ) The last date for filing the nomination 
papers was 29th of January , 1957, and the Petitioner and the Respondenrs Nos . 1 
and 2 filed their respective nomination papers for a seat in the House of the 
People from the Musafirkhana Parliamentary constituency , within the District 
of Sultanpur. The nomination papers of all the three candidates were found 
valid on sciutiny but, latcr, Respondent No 2 , Sri Viddya Dhar Bajpai, withdrew 
from the contest and there remained only two candidates from the Musafirkhana 
C . 372stituency, one the petitioner , whose symbol was an Elephant , and the Res 
pondent, whose symbol was a pair of bullocks with a yoke on . The Petitionier 
contested the election as an Independent candidate and the Respondent : a 
memher of the Congress party . 


The polls in this Musafrkhana Parliamentary constituency took place on the 
3rd , 6th and 9th of March , 1957, and the counting of the votes was done on the 
18th of March , 1957 . As a result of the counting the Respondent was declared 
to ho duly elected by the Returning Officer , on the 20th of Marrh , 1935 . 


The details of the grounds on which the Petitioner seeks a declaration , that 
the election was void and that he should be declared duly elerteil in place of the 
Respondent, are given in various paragraphs and sub -paragraphs of the Petition , 
poginning from paragraph 7 to paragraph 12 . It may be staied here that the 
Petition , as originally presented , suffered from lack of essential details but those 
were supplied later on by leave of this Tribunal when an application under 
section 90, sub -section ( 5 ) was filed by the Petitioner with a prayer that he should 
be alo .ved to give particulars of the corrupt practices as alleged in hi. Petition 
and also to amend or amplify the same. It inay further be stated that the classi 
Sication of the instances of corrupt practices has not been artistically drawn up 
AS several instances have been found to he over - lapping and some of thn pari 
graphs numbered incorrectly on account of wrong use of either the capital or 
the small letters of the alphabet. However , in spite of these defects , which in 
my opinion are not very material, the Petition presents several identif able 
instances of corrupt practices said to have been committed by the Responent. 

It is alleged in paragraph 7 that the Respondent exploiteri his position as a 
Minister of the Indian Union and at his instance the District Magistrate of 
Sultanpur and his subordinates arranged election meetings on his h - half and 
used their official influence to induce the clcctors to cast their votes in hiy Id your. 
In paragraph 7 ( A ) , details of these election meetings which were alleged to have 
been arranged by the District Magistrate and his subordinates have been given 
FOWIIS that on the 15th of January, 1957, three meetings were held , one at 
Sultanpur, one in the Iligher Secondary School in Bharkhare and one al Kamta 
qan ] Five such meetings were also held on the 16th of Janary , 1957 , at Amethi, 
Thaura , Shahgarh , Gaurigan ) and Babu Ganj. 


In paragraph 8 of the Petition it is alleged that on the 15th and 10th of 
January , 1957, the Respondent toured his constituency in a state car hearing the 
Ashoka , Chakra , the emblem of the Government of India , and wherever he 
went the police presented him a guard of honour and the nolire and viher Gov 
ernirent officials were in constant attendance which cave the impression to the 
electorate that the Government was backing the Respondent and iſ any one 
voted against him he would thereby incur Government s displeasure Paragraph 
8 ( A ) is a part repitition of the allegations made in paragraph 7 and also part 
grach 8 , adding that during the tour the Respondent was accompanied by the 
Distrirt Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police. A few partirulers were 
given under this paragraph 8 ( A ) . and the holding of meetings at Sultaripur, 
Bharkhare Kamtagant, Amethi, Shahgarh , Gauriganj and Babu Ganj, on the 
15th and 16th of January , 1957, was reiterated . 


- 


- 


- 


SCC. $ (11)] 1111. GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ 01LITRA 28, 1881 921 
- - - -- - - - - 

- - - - - - - 
In paragraph 11 ( a ) it has been alleged that one Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
of Amethi who had succeeded in getting a seat in the Legislative il sembly 
in ille vection oť 1952 , was won over by the Respondent in the 1957 election , 
by ijulding our a promise tu him , that he, the Respondent, would get him 1!0ml 
nated as a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council if he became his 
acuve Supporter . As a result oť this reward offered to Kunwar Rananjaya 
Singh , it is said , the latter did not stand in the election and held public meetings 
in support of the Responuent s candidature , all several places, stating that the 
Petitioner carried on the trade in animal bones, including the bones of cows, 
which otlended the sentiment of the Hindus , and that if elected the Fetither 
would leave no stone unturned to get low -slaughter re - started , for which any 
llindu voting for the Petitioner would render himself an object of divine dis 
pleasure and spiritual censure . The Respondent is also said to have addierved 
The Samne meetings in the same terms and Kunwar Kananjaya Singh , further . 
got a notice, Exhibit 1 , printed , published and distributed amongst the electorate . 
It is also alleged that one Sri Rudra Pal Misra also distributed a notic m , Exlubit 
2 , amongst the electors . In paragraph 11 ( a ) - ( i) the particulus of the allegations 
made in paragraph 11 ( a ) have been supplied in as-much as the places whicro the 
meetings were held have been named . The meeting at Amethi on the both of 
Janualy , 1957, is said to have been addressed by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
and others, and the mectings at other places on the 15th of January , 15457 , 16ın 
of January , 1957 and 8th of February , 1957, are said to have been adressed 
by the Respondent No. 1 . The meetings at Amethi and Lamhuu Bazars are 
said to have been addressed by some other persons as well with the consent 
of the Respondent . In paragraph 11 ( a ) - (ii) reference has again bern nade of 
Exhibits 1 and 2 having been distributed by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh and Sri 
Rudra Pal Singh , respectively , throughout the constituency . 


The corrupt practices , as mentioned iri paragraph 11 ( h ) , is said to have been 
committed by Sri Rain Kishore Shastri, private secretary to Kunwar Rusnjava 
Singh , who sent for publication in the Sanatan , a local newspaper , the notire , 
Exhibit 1 , and also a statement that the Petllioner wus spending money like 
water and purchasing votes . This corrupt practice is said to have been 
commilied on the 19th of February , 1957 . In parngraph 11 ( c ) , reference was 
againi macle of Exhibits 1 and 2 and it is alleged that Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
told the electorate in various public meetings that the Petitioner was a 
Pakistani agent and if he was returned he would vote for Kashmir s accession 
to Pakistan . As a result of the cxhortations made by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
and also by the Respondent himself Vijai Pal Pande and Shrimati Savitri Devi , 
who were candidates from the Assembly constituencies of Amethi, and Lainhua . 
respectively , withdrew their support of the Petitioner which they had at Arst 
promised . In paragraph 11 ( d ) it is said that systematic appeal to the electorate 
to vote for the Respondent was made on the grounds of caste and community , 
and one Sri Jagga Dass , a Harijan appealed to the Harijan voters saying that 
they should never support the Petitioner who was ul Muslim . In Daragraph 
11 ( 4 ) - ( i ) it has been also alleged that Respondent no . 1 , at the meetings rietailed 
in sub -paragraph 11 ( a ) - ( i ) addressed the electorate to refrain from voting for 
the Petitioner on the ground of caste and community and that his supporters 
also advanced similar appeals to the electorate on the bame grounds, l Ith the 
consent of the Respondent. In paragraph 11 ( e ) - ( i) the use of the national flag 
by the Respondent has again been made with the particulars that it was so 
used from the 15th of January, 1957 to 18th of January . 1957, from 26th of 
Janugry , 1957, to 6th of February , 1957, and from 15th of February , 1957 to 
9ih of March , 1957 . Paragraph 11 ( f ) is another repetition about the Britices 
Exhibits 1 and 2 alleging that such publications and distributions amrinter to 

corrupt practice as defined in section 133 sub -section ( 4 ) of the Representation 
of the People Act , 


Paragraph 11 ( g ) and sub -paragraph 11 ( g ) - (i ) refers to a distinct category 
of lurrupt practices , namely , hiring of ekkas and rickshaws hy the Respondent 
and onn Banke Beharl Vaid on the 8th of March , 1957 . Subsequeutlil i coid , 
many voters were brought to the polling stations oť Lamhua and Rangani on 
the th of March , 1957 , Names of a few other persons have also been Ven as 
persons who had engaged such conveyances on behalf of the Respondant with 
his consent In paragraph 11 ( h ) , 11 ( h ) - ( i ) and 11 ( h ) ( i ) ( 1 ) . It has her stated 
that one Sri Deo Kall Din Sharma, President of the District Board , l annur , 
user the District Board s station -wagon in the alection campaign of the Res 
pondent and on 5th February 1957 threatened the techers with a transfer away 
from their houses , as a consequence of not voting for the Respondunut [ 1 is 
also alleged that Sri Deo Kali Din held out promises to these teachers to make 
suitable transfers to their advantage if they voted for the Respondent. 


922 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA · APRIL. 18 . 1959/ CHAITRA 28 , 1981 PART II 
- - - - - - - 

= - - = - = - = - = - = - = 
In paragraph 11 ( 1 ) , which includes several sub -paragraphs ( i ) to ( vii ) , 
promies of various kinds are said to have been made by the Respondent and 
his workers. In sub -paragraph ( iv ) it is stated that a meeting was held at 
Pakhiauli on 4th of March , 1957 , which was addressed by the Respondent, in 
this way, that he had restored the dismentlęd Lucknow - Jaunpur railway line 
and had arranged to make Pakhrauli a Flag station but if the people of the 
locality did not vote in his favour he would see that the scheme was finally 
dropped In sub -paragraph ( vii) It has been said that Sri Banke Behari, a 
paid Bhoodan worker , threatened the electorate stating that if the people of 
the locality voted for the Petitioner and against the Respondent the lands given 
to them by the Bhoodan Samiti would be taken back . In paragraph 11 ( k ) , sub 
paragraph ( il ) reference has been made again of Jagga Dass and of several 
other Harijans who addressed meetings at Abhayya Kalan and other places on 
4th and 8th of March , 1957, stating that if the Harijan community did not vote 
for the Respondent, Jagga Dags , a leader of the Harijans, would lose his job 
and the educational and other facilities granted to the Harijans by the Gov 
crnment would be withdrawn , Paragraph 11 ( k ) , sub -paragraph ( 1) refers about 
a threat in connection with a proposal of a pucca road , and sub -paragraph 
( iii ) refers to certain gratifications estimable in money. In paragraph 11 ( 1 ) 
it has again been alleged that the Respondent and his workers took the assistance 
of some Government Officers in furtherance of the election and that Sri Deo 
Kali Din Sharma on 1st February 1957, when touring the Parliamentary 
constituency in the District Board s station -wagon , order the District Board 
school tcachers at several places to close their schools after the mid -day interval 
in order to go out for canvassing in favour of the Respondent. Paragraph 11 ( m ) 
refers to the use of a postage stamp by the Goverament of India and in para 
graph 11 ( n ) it is said that the Respondent No . 1 through his agents , workers 
and canvassers got a man called Pahari Gujar , an active worker of the Petitioner , 
killed or Abducted . It is alleged that undue influence was at first exercised 
upon him to induce him to refrain from working for the Petitioner but as he 
refused to yield to the temptations he was either abducted or killed on the 17th 
of February , 1957. His brother submitted an application before the Superin 
- tendent of Police , Sultanpur, but the latter, under the influence of the Res 
pondent, took no steps on the same. 


The return of election expenses by Respondent No. 1 has been challenged 
in paragraph 11 ( 0 ) and , in paragraph 11 ( p ) , it is said that the Respondent took 
the assistance of another Government servant, namely , his own private secretary . 
Sri Ghor Pade who was in charge of his election . Paragraph 11 ( a ) refers to 
an alleged objectionable slogan as printed on a poster , which , admittedly . was 
distributed on behalf of the Respondent. In paragraph 12 , it has been said 
that the Respondent had taken recourse to fraud and intentional misrepresenta 
tions, that he had committed corrupt practices and elertoral offences as set forth 
in the various paragraphs and that the result of the election has been materially 
afferted , as, otherwise, the Petitioner would have obtained a majority of valid 
"votes . 


The Respondent has filed his written statement, generally and specifically 
denying all the allegations of corrupt practices made against him , his workers 
and his supporters , On these allegations and their denial the following issues 
have been framed : 


( 1 ) Whcther the Respondent No. 1 enlisted the support of the District 

Magistrate and the Government Officers mentioned in paragraphs 7 
and 7A in arranging the election meetings of the 15th and 18th 
January , 1957, mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 7A of the petition . 
and was any corrupt practice committed by the Respondent no . 1 ? 


( 2 ) Whether the Respondent no . 1 used the Ashoka Chakra and the State 

flag during the tour of his constituenry on the 15th and 10th 
January , 1957, and whether any Government officer assisted in 
arranging meetings, election campaign and in propagandas as alleged 
in paragraphis 8 and 8A of the petition , and whether any corrupt 
practice was committed by the Respondent no . 1 ? 


( 3 , Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the 

petition amount to obtaining or procuring assistance in furtherance 
of the prospects of the election of the Respondent no. 1 from persons 
in the service of the Government as defined in section 123 ( 7 ) of 
the Representation of People Act ? 


SEC . 3 ( ti)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 


923 


( 4 ) Whether the Respondent no . 1 has been guilty of any fraud , intentional 

misrepresentation , corrupt practices and any other electoral offences 
alleged in paragraph 10 of the petition , and was it on account of 
such practices that he secured the majority of votes and won , the 
election ? 


(5 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11 ( a ) , 11 ( a ) ( 1 ) and 

11 ( a ) ( ii) of the Petition are true and whether any corrupt practice 
was committed by the Respondent No. 1 and his agents, canvassers 

and supporters as to invalidate his election ? 
( 6 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11 ( b ) and 11 ( b ) ( i ) 

are correct and was any corrupt practice committed as alleged in 
these paragraphs by the Respondent No, 1 within the meaning of 

section 123 ( 1 ) of the Representation of People Act ? 
( 7 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( c ) of the Petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice committed as alleged in 
this paragraph within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Repre 

sentation of the People Act ? 
(8 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11 ( d ) and 11 ( d ) ( i ) 

of the petition are correct and was the corrupt practice of making 
a systematic appeal to vote for Respondent No. 1 and to refrain 
trom voting for the Petitioner on the ground of caste or community 
committed by the Respondent No. 1, and his active workers , can 

vassers and supporters ? 
( 9 ) Whether the Respondent No. 1 is guilty of corrupt practice of using 

the National Flag or any national emblem in furtherance of the 
prospects of his election as defined in section 123 ( 3 ) of the Repre 

sentation of People Act ? 
( 10 ) Whether the alleged publication of the notire referred to in paragraph 

11 ( a ) of the petition constitutes also the corrupt practice as alleged 
in paragraph 11 ( 1 ) of the petition within the meaning of section 

123 ( 4 ) of the Representation of People Act ? 
(11 ; Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11 ( g ) and 11 ( g ) ( 1) 

of the petition are correct and was any corrupt practice committed 
within the meaning of section 123 ( 5 ) of the Representation of 

People Act ? 
( 12 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( h ) of the petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice committed as defined in 

section 123 (2 ) of the Representation of People Act ? 
(13 ) Whother the allegations contained in paragraphs 11 ( 1) and 11 ( 1 ) ( 1 ) 

of the Petition are correct and was any corrupt practice as defined 

in section 123 ( 1 ) of the Representation of People Act committed ? 
( 14 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (1 ) of the Petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice within the meaning of 
section 123 ( 1 ) and section 123 ( 2 ) of the Representation of People 

Act committed ? 
( 15 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (k ) of the petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice as defined in section 123 ( 2 ) 

of the Representation of People Act committed ?, 
(16 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( 1 ) of the petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice as defined in section 123 ( 7 ) 

of the Representation of People Act committed ? 
( 17 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( m ) of the petition 

are correct and was any undue influence and inducement excrcised 
on the electoy s for the purpose of procuring votes in favour of 

Respondent no. 1 ? 
( 18 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( n ) of the Petition 

are correct and was the validity of the election affected ? 
( 19 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( 0 ) of the Petition 

are correct and is the election of the Respondent no . 1. therefore 
invalid ? 


924 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/ CIIAITRA 28 , 1881 


Part II 


- 


( 20 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( b ) of the Peti 

tion are correct and is the validity of the election of the Respondent 

no . 1 . ailected ? 
( 21 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 ( 9 ) of the petition 

are correct and has any corrupt practice as alleged been committer ? 
( 22) Whether as alleged in paragraph 12 of the petition the result of the 

election has been materially affected ? 
(23 ) To what relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled ? 


Both parties have led oral and documentary evidence. The Petitioner has 
examined 25 witnesses but has not, himself, come to the witness box . On behalf 
of thc Respondent 26 witnesses have been cxamined including the Respondent, 
himself , who is R . W . 26 . 


Issues 1 , 2 , 3, and 9 , ( Issues 1, second part of issue No. 2 and issue No. 3 ) ; 


The issues upon which the Petitioner has drawn my attention with emphasis 
are Issues 1 , 2 , 3 , and 9 . These issues refer to paragraphs 7 , 7A , 8 , 8A and 9 , 
Broadly speaking, they refer to the arrangements made by Government Officers 
of meetings at serveral places to help the Respondent in his clection , and to the 
use of the National Flag by the Respondent on the very same dates when the 
meetings were held , namely, on the 15th and 16th of January , 1957. As issue 
no . 2 refers to two different sets of facts it would be better if issue no . 1 in 
whole and the second part of issue no . 2 are taken up together with issue no . 3 
which is the legal conscquence following the proof of facts in connection with 
issue no. 1 and second part of issue no . 2 . The first part of issue no . 2 which 
relates to the use of the National Flag should be dealt with along with issue no . 9 , 
which , to , is with respect to the use of the National Flag or of National emblem 
in furtherance of the prospects of a candidate as defined in section 123 ( 3 ) of the 
Representation of the People Act. The main ground adopted on behalf of the 
Petitioner is that the Respondent was holding himself out as a candidate from 
before the 20th of January, 1957, the date on which he purchased the nomina 
tion paper from the Sultanpur trcasury . I may refer here again that the last 
date for filing nomination papers was 29th of January, 1957. According to the 
Respondent ( R . W . 26 ) , he decided to contest for a scat in the Parliament in the 
election of 1957 when he got a ticket from the Central Congress Parliamentary 
Board for a seat in the Parliament from the Musafirkhana constituency , cither 
on the 22nd or 23rd of January , 1957, and then filled his nomination paper on the 
29th of January , 1957 , for which he had come cither on 25th or 26th of January , 
1957, to Sultanpur. According to the Respondent, therefore, there was no elec 
tion work done by him or by his party prior to 25th or 26th of January, 1957. On 
the other hand, the Petitioner has tried to prove by oral and documentary evi 
dence that the Respondent was holding himself out atleast from 9th of January , 
1957, when he purchased a copy of the electoral roll. According to the Petitioner , 
the Respondent was holding himself out as a candidate with the clcction in pros 
pect . The learned counsel on behalf of the Petitioner has argued on the strength 
of the definition of the word " candidate ” , that the Respondent should be deemed 
to have been a candidate when , with the clection in prospect, he began holding 
himselt out as a prospective candidate. It follows from the definition given in 
section 79 sub - section ( 1 ) Clausc ( b ) that a candidate is not necersarily a 
person who has been or claims to have been duly nominated as a candidate in 
any particular election . The lalter part of the definition includes a person to be 
a candidate if he purported to hold himself out as a prospective candidate from 
a particular time, with the election in prospect. Accordingly , if it is proved by 
evidence . oral, documentary or circumstantial, that the Respondent had been 
holding himself out as a prospective candidate prior to his filing of the nomina 
tion paper on the 29th of January , 1957, he will be deemed to be a candidate 
within the meaning of section 79 ( 1 ) ( b ) . Exhibits 12 series, are the nomination 
papers filed by the Respondent, including true copies of an extract from the list 
of voters prepared in 1956 . These show that the true copies were obtained on 
9th of January , 1957, and on this it has been argued by the learned counsel fr 
the Pctitioner that it is from this time that the Respondent had decided to co1 
test the election from some constituency other than the one in which he wa 
entered as a yoter . The fact that on the eve of the election in a Sultanpur con 
stituency he had an official programme for a visit to that place on the 15th and 
16th of January , 1957 , will prove , it is contended , that this so - called oficial 
programme was nothing but a camouflage and that the real purpose of the 
visit of the Respondent in Sultanpur district on those two dates was to carry 
on his election propaganda through the help of the Government Officers. It has 


$ xc . 


( ij ) 


THE GAZE I TE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


025 


been urged that the programme ( Exhibit 6 ) of the 15th and 16th of January , 
1957, was given an official shape for financial reasons, i. e ., to get the expenses 
defrayed from the public exchequor and to receive the assistance of the numerous 
Government Officers , Barring these true copies of the extracts from the list 
of voters there is no documentary evidence to support the contention made on 
behalf of the Petitioner . I am afraid these extracts are practically of no impor 
tance in judging whether the Respondent had been holding out as a prospective 
candidate on the two dates , namely , 15th and 16th of January , 1957. The other 
documentary evidencc relied upon by the learned counsel for the Petitioner is 
based on the two items in the return of the election expenses ( Exhibit 23 ) sub 
mitted by the Respondent. An item of the 20th of January , 1957, shows that 
a jeep car was purchased on that date for Rs. 5 , 000 and a nomination form was 
purchased from Sultanpur Trcasury on the very same date. This date is several 
days later to the visit of the Respondent to Sultanpur and cannot prove the fact 
that prior to this date and especially on the 15th and 16th of January , 1957 , he, 
the Respondent, was holding himself out as a prospective candidate . These 
items may affect the evidence of the Respondent that there was no election work 
donc by him prior to 25th or 26th of January , 1957, which were the dates of his 
visit to Sultanpur for the purpose of Aling the nomination papers. This may 
also affect his evidence that he decided to contest for a seat in the Parliament 
only when he was informed by the Central Congress Parliamentary Board that 
they had selected him as a candidate from the Sultanpur -Musafirkhana consti 
tuency . But, thc proximity of the dates is such which does not oust the possibi 
lity of a slight error due to lapse of memory . It is possible that by 20th of 
January , 1957, the Respondent was in a position to anticipate the choice by the 
Central Congress Parliamentary Board and decided to stand for a seat in the 
Parliament from the Musafirkhana constituency . The fact that on the 20th of 
January , 1957 , he purchased a nomination form from the Sultanpur treasury , 
and the facts resting on the two items of expenditure might belic a minor part 
of the evidence of the Respondent but they cannot , by any means, prove inde 
pendently that the Respondent had been holding out as a prospective candidate 
on the 15th and 16th of January , 1957. Reference has been made , on behalf of 
the Petitioner , of Exhibits 17 and 17 / 1 , the Travelling Allowance Bills of the 
Respondent, to show thut he was at Lucknow on the 9th of January , 1957 , and 
also of Exhibit 18, which is a news- item in the Leader , dated the 15th of January , 
1957 , to show that a meeting had been convened at Lucknow , but, I do not 
understand how these exhibits can be of any help to the Petitioner . 


The sheet - anchor regarding this contention of the Petitioner is the programme 
of the Respondent in Sultanpur on the 15th and 16th of January , 1957, which is , 
Appendix 1 (Exhibit 6 ) . The programme shows in detail the arrival and 
departure of the Respondent at various places and also what he did there. On 
the 15th of January , 1957, he arrived at the P . W . D . Inspection House , at Sultan 
pur, from Lucknow , by car, at 10 : 30 AM , and departed for Bharkhare at 1 P . M . 
There, he presided over a school function and also held a Workers Meeting. At 
3P . M ., on the same day , he visited Kamtaganj in connection with the inauguration 
of Kamtaganj Panchayatghar and also attended a Workers Meeting. On the 
16th of January , 1957, he attended three Workers Meetings , at Amethi, Thaura , 
and at Gauriganj and departed for Lucknow at 5 P . M . by car . This programme 
was drawn up by Sri H . D . Pradhan , the then District Magistrate of Sultanpur, 
on the directions received from the Respondent and copies of the same were 
forwarded to the Superintendent of Police and also to other Government Omcers . 
A copy of the programmc was also sent to the President, District Congress 
Committec, for making necessary arrangements at the places mentioned in the 
programme for the Workers Meetings . There can be no doubt that some of the 
Government Officers, such as, the District Planning Officer and some Tahsildars 
were asked to inake arrangements but they had nothing to do with the Workers 
Meetings. Thc District Planning Officer was directed to make necessary arrange 
ments for inauguration of the Kamtaganj Panchayat Ghar , for inspection of 
Gauriganj N . E . S . Block and for a public meeting . Similarly , the Tahsildars of 
Kadi Pur and Amrthi were asked to make arrangements at Bharkhare and 
Shahgarh . For Workers Meetings only the President. District Congress Com 
mittee was directed to make nccessary arrangements at the places mentioned in 
the programme. It appcars , therefore , that this programme had nothing to do 
with the matter of clection , unless at these Workers Meetings the Respondent 
had talked about the coming election and had done something in furtherance of 
his election campaign . It is clcar that the Government Offlcers had nothing to 
do with these Workers Meetings and Sri A . C . Ambuậni ( R . W . 14 ) the then 
Superintendent of Police of Sultanpur district has pledged his oath that these 
meetings had nothing to do with the Government officers and no Government 
Officers including, himself, and the District Magistrate, were present then . There 


926 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


[Part ir 


is no reason why R . W . 14 should be disbelieved when there is total lack of 
cvidence that the Government Officers were present in such meetings. The 
Respondent has stated in his cvidence and is supported by some of his witnesses 
that these Workers Meetings, referred to in Appendix I, had nothing to do with 
the election work . He has said in cross - examination that these Workers Meet 
ings were not assisted by the Government Officers and no party matters were 
discussed in any of such mcetings. He has further stated that he did not ask 
in the Workers Meetings anything in connection with what the workers should 
do in the coming clection and there was no reference to the coming election at 
all . Attempt has been made by and on behalf of the Respondent that the word 
workers mcluded congress workers as well as village workers , who ventilated 
the ı zrievances about matters concerning the villages and the local areas . In 
the yiritlen statement it has been said that the programme detailed in Appendix 
I was intended to serve as information to the public regarding the various 
engagements , both oficial and private , of the Respondent, and that it was only in 
connection with the official engagements that some duties were assigned to the 
officials concerned . It is true that the Respondent in his cross - cxamination 
stated that the workers at these Workers Meetings included those other than 
congress workers, although , in the written statement, it was admitted that these 
werc congress workers meetings , but, this difference has no particular signifi 
cance in the determination of the issue in total absence of any evidence on 
behalf of the Petitioner that in these meetings something in relation to election 
was done. Statements made by the Respondent, which may or may not be true , 
or, which may be an improvement on his written - statement cannot fill up the 
gaps or overcome the wcakness in the Petitioncr s case. A discrepant statement 
about the actual date on which he decided to fight the election and an attempt 
to explain away a particular type of meeting do not necessarily lead to the 
inference that the Respondent was holding himself out as a prospective candi 
date , on the 15th and 16th of January , 1957, in absence of proper and trustworthy 
evidence 


There is no evidence on record to show that there was any overt act by the 
Respondent prior to 15th of January , 1957, which amounted to representing to 
the whole electorate or to a part of it that he was going to take part in the elec 
tion . It was incumbent on the Petitioner to prove that some overt act had been 
done by or on behalf of the Respondent which was to the knowledge of the 
electorate in that constituency . By purchasing a copy of an electoral roll, the 
Respondent might have given an inclination of his contemplation to fight out an 
election in Uttar Pradesh but that was limited only to the persons from whom 
a copy of the electoral roll was taken . The electorate in the constituency of the 
Sultanpur district or of other Districts in Uttar Pradesh had little chance to 
know from this act that the Respondent had made up his mind to fight the 
election , either in Sultanpur or in any other District within this State . The 
obtaining of such a copy of electoral roll can never be held as a definite expres 
sion of an intention to hold out as a candidate . 


Conscious of this hiatus in the Petitioner s case , the learned counsel for the 
Petitioner has urged that these exhibits , by themselves , although not necessarily 
indicating the fact of the Respondent s holding out as a prospective candidate , 
corroborate the statements of the Petitioncr s witnesses who have deposed that at 
several meetings , of which there is a reference in the programme, the Respon 
dent exhorted the people collected there to vote for him and not to vote for the 
Petitioner for certain reasons. There can hardly be any doubt that if the Res 
pondent, while addressing the meetings at several places, on the 15th and 16th 
of January , 1957 , referred to the election and asked the people to vote for him 
and not to vote for the Petitioner, the Respondent was uncquivocally holding 
himself out as a prospective candidate, I would rather go so far as to find that 
the Respondent will be held to have been holding himself out as a candidate , if 
in these meetings he spoke about any matter having a direct or indirect rclation 
ship with the coming election and he will be within the mischief of the law cven 
if he had not referred to the Petitioner. 


It is, therefore, necessary to scan the evidence of the Petitioner , on the sub 
ject, carefully . In paragraph 7 of the Petition two charges have been laid against 
the Respondent alleging that at his instance the Government Officers arranged 
his election meetings and he used their official influence to induce the electors to 
cast their votes in his favour. I may state at once that there is not an iota of 
evidence to show that any Government Officer used his official influence on any 
elector and asked a person or persons to cast votcs in favour of the Respondent. 
Except Appendix I ( Exhibit 6 ) , there is no evidence to show that the District 
Magistrate or his sub - ordinates arranged meetings for the Respondent. As 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959 / CHAITRA 29, 1881 


927 


- - - 


- 


already pointed out some officers of the Government did arrange certain meetings 
on those two dates and it is to be found , therefore , whether they were in con 
nection with the election of the Respondent. The particulars of these meetings 
are given in paragraph 7A of the Petition . According to this paragraph there 
were three mcetings on the 15th of January, 1957 , at Sultanpur, Bharkhare and 
Kamtaganj. There is no evidence about any meeting at Sultanpur Inspection 
Bungalow and the Counsel for the Petitioner hus given up his stand with respect 
to any such meeting at this place . The meeting at Bharkhare was with regard 
to a function in the Higher Secondary School of that place and six Government 
Officers are said to have arranged the meeting and helped in it. One of the 
Officers was Sri H . D . Pradhan , District Magistratc , who, unfortunately , is dead . 
Names of five other officers have been given in the 4th column but nonc has been 
examined . With reference to the meeting at Kamtaganj names of six officers 
have been given including that of the District Magistrate and R . W . 14 . Sri 
S . C . Ambuanı, Superintendent of Police , R . W . 14 , has becn examined by the 
Respondent. No officer has been cxamined on behalf of the Petitioner . Sri 
Ambuanı has definitely stated on oath that he neither arranged such a meeting 
or rendered any help in it . His duty was to accompany the Respondent wherever 
he went as he was the Minister at that relevant time. It is stated in paragraph 
7 A that live meetings were held on 16th January, 1957, but the learned counsel 
for the petitioner has not pressed his contention with regard to the public meet 
ings at Thaura, Shahgarh and Babuganj. He has restricted the activities of the 
Respondent to a public meeting at Amethi and another public mecting at Gauri 
gunj, None of thc Government Officers , mentioned in column 4 , has been 
examined for the Petitioner , and Sri S . C . Ambuanı ( R . W . 14 ) has deposed to 
belie thc Petitioner s casc with icspcct to the Amcthi mctting also . The oral 
evidence on bchall of the Petitioner in this connection rests on the depositions of 
P . Ws 2 , 5 , 10 , 11 , 12 and 24 . P . W . 2 has stated that the canvassing for the 
clection was going on for about two months prior to the clection but, later on , he 
admitted that he started canvassing for the Pctitioner 15 or 20 days prior to the 
date of polling. Theie is no material to show from which time he was working 
for the Petitioner in his election so that he could know that the election work 
of the Respondent was going on for two months prior to the election . This wit 
ness is very much interested in the Petitioner as he was not only his worker 
but his Polling Agent as well. The next witness is P . W . 5 , Ram Lal Pande , who 
has deposed about the meeting at Gauriganj, on the 16th of January , 1957. He 
has deposed about another meeting at Gauriganj 15 or 16 days prior to the 
clection but to that I shall refer later on . According to this witness the Res 
pondent asked the Sabhapatis and other members of the Gram Sabha to give 
their votes after duly considering the present relationship between India and 
Pakistan . The Respondent also addressed them saying that Haji Abdul Wahid 
was a begoted and a staunch Muslim , hc traded in bones and that he was defeated 
in the last election . This witness, in thc last election , was a canvasser for one 
Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh , an Independent candidate . He has admitted that 
he once belonged to the Congress party and in 1952, he became a member of the 
Praja Socialist Party . This witness cannot be said to be a disinterested one. 
Moreover , it is hard to believe when , according to him there were about 1 ,200 
men present in that meeting , that the Respondent would dare broach the subject 
of election . He said at one place that there were workers of all the parties 
present in that meeting, although , they did not attend on party basis . It is 
strange that no complaint about this speech was made to any authority any -where 
and it is difficult for me to believe that an experienced man like the Respondent 
in election matters , would expose himself in the way the witness has deposcd . 
I am , therefore, not in a posítion to rcly on this witness . The next witness is 
P . W . 10 , Ram Khelawan Dube . According to this witness , the Respondent 
addressed the public stating that he had stood for the election and that they 
should vote after duly considering the question between Pakistan and Kashmir . 
This witness , too , cannot be said to be an independent one. He was a worker of 
the same Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh , the Independent candidate and was also 
his Polling Agent. He admitted in cross - examination that he did not want the 
Congress to win . The next witness is Sri Sarju Prasad Misra , P . W . 11 . He, too , 
was working for one Shrimati Savitri Devi, an Independent candidate , and was 
her Polling Agent. He had also worked for sometime for the Petitioner and has 
admitted in cross - examination that he was against the principles of the Congress 
and his desire was to see that no body for the Congress succeeded in the election 
in his circle . It may be started here that at one time he belonged to the Congress 
organization but left it three or four years ago and started working for the Soçla 
list party . The other two witnesses are P . W . 12 and 24 , P . W . 12 belongs, at 
present, to the Praja Socialist Party and P . W . 24 is the District Secretary of the 
game party , who admits that he is against the Congress . P .ws 11, 12 and 24 , 
depose about the meeting at Bharkhare School and the denial of such a speech 


928 


THI 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28, 1881 [PART IL 
= - - - - - - - - - - 
18 given in the evidence of the Respondent s witnesses Nos . 11, 14 , and 20 and 
in the evidence of the Respondent, himself as already stated , R . W . 14 is the 
Superintendent of Police and there is no reason for disbelieving him . 

About the meeting at Kamtaganj, there is evidence of P . W . 11 , alone, and 
about the meeting at Amethi there is evidence of P . W . 24 only . P .Ws 5 and 10 
have depoşed about the meeting of Gaurigant on the 16th of January , 1957. It 
would appear, therefore , that for the alleged speeches of the Respondent at 
Kamtagan ) and Amethi there is the evidence of only one witness for each such 
meeting ; there is evidence of only two witnesses for the meeting at Gauriganj 
and evidence of thrce witnesses for the meeting at Bharkhare school. Not a 
single independent witness has come forward to depose about these various 
speeches . No Government Officer has been examined , although , they were men 
tioned , in the 4th column of paragraph 7A . One independent Government Off 
Çer in the position of a Superintendent of Police , who , admittedly , attended two 
such meetings has given a lie to the Petitioner s version . It goes against all 
probabilities that the Respondent would exposc himself in this manner as alleged , 
111 open public meetings, where more than a thousand persons had congregated . 
It is also strange that there will be no ventilation of such a matter in the press 
or anywhere either in the shape of a news item or in the character of complaint 
made before any authority by persons who were deeply interested to see that 
the Congress candidate did not succecd . It is stated in paragraphs 8 and 8 .A 
that the Respondent was given Guard of Honour by the police at various places 
which he visited on those two dates and the Government Officers were on 
attendance on him giving the impression that the Government was backing the 
Respondent. RW . 14 has stated that he and the District Magistrate followed 
the Respondent wherever he went on those two days as it was their duty to do 
go . Their presence and the presence of other Government Oficers , cannot, 
therefore, be made a subject-matter of criticism when they were only discharging 
their duties The Police was also present but R . W . 14 has deposed that no Guard 
of Honour was glven to the Respondent on those two days. I believe him and 
hold that no Guard of Honour was presented by the Police to Respondent No. 1 . 
It is again significant that on the 15th and 16th of January , 1959 , the Respondent 
did not even know that the Petitioner was going to stand for elction and , there 
fore , there was no occasion for him to refer to the Petitioner in the meetings at 
those places , 


My findings on the Issues No. 1, on the 2nd part of issue No. 2 and on issue 
No, 3 are , therefore , as follows: 
The Respondent No. 1 did not enlist the support of the District Magistrate 

and the Government Officers for arranging election -meetings on the 
15th and 16th of Janyary , 1957, as alleged in paragraph 7 and 7A 
of the Petition . The Government Ofcors did not use their official 
influence to induce the electors to cast their votes in favour of the 
Respondent. No Government servant assisted the Respondent in 
arranging any mceting which had any connection with the election 
compaign or propaganda and no Guard of Honour was given to the 
Respondent at the places which he visited according to the para 
graphs 7A and 8A of the Petition . The Respondent never held 
himself out as a prospective candidate and the Petitioner bas 
signally failed to prove that the Respondent committed the corrupt 
practice of obtaining or procuring tho assistance of a person in the 
service of the Government for the furtherance of the prospects of 
his election . At one time, it was contended , on behalf of the Peti 
tioner , that the Respondent will be equally guilty of having commit 
ted a corrupt practice as described in section 123, sub -section ( 7 ) of 
the Representation of the People Act, even if the persons in the 
service of the Government rendered assistance to the Respondent 
without knowing that the assistance they were rendering was going 
to benefit him in his election . The proposition is not unsound , 
stading by itself , but, in the present case , my findings are that the 
Respondent was not doing any work in connection with the election 
on the 15th and 16th of January, 1958 , and , therefore, If any Assist 
ance was rendered to the Respondent in their official capacity . the 
obtaining or procuring of such assistance cannot be held to be a 
corrupt practice under section 123 sub - section ( 7 ) . 


Accordingly , the entire issue No. 1 and the second part of issue No . 2 are 
answered against the Petitioner . Issue No . 3 is also answered against the Peti 
tioner , with the observation that it to not necessary whether the facts contained 


Sec . 


(U )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


929 


in paragraphs 7 and 8 amount to a corrupt practice when these facts have been 
found to be untrue and disproved. 


( 1st part of Issue No. 2 and Issue No . 9 : 


I shall now turn to the first part of issue No . 2 , and issue No. 9 . There can 
hardly be any doubt that of the national flag was used on the car of the Respon 
dent on the 15th and 10th of January , 1957 and he was then busy in his election 
the use will render him guilty of a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 
123 sub - section ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act. I have, however, 
given my decision that on these two dates the Respondent was not holding 
himsell out as a candidate and was not doing any clection work . Accordingly , 
even if the national flag was used on those two dates it cannot be said that the 
Respondent has committed a corrupt practice by using the same, 


Evidence has been led on behalf of the Petitioner to show that the national 
flag was used by the Respondent on his car, not only on the 15th and 16th of 
January , 1957, but also on other days when , admittedly , election work of all the 
parties was going on in full swing . P . W . 1 has stated that he had seen the use 
of the national flag by the Respondent at Araru - Baba -ka .Mela . This fact, how 
ever, is not mentioned in the Petition . I have already indicated that P . W . 1 is 
not a disinterested witness . He was opposing the congress, according to his 
own admission , for almost all the time, and was working for the Praja Socialist 
Party from the same constituency , i. e ., the Musafirkhana constituency , from 
which the Respondent had stood . According to this witness Musafirkhana was 
the nearest police station from Araru Baba -ka -Mela , but it is strange that no 
complaint about this use of the flag was made to any authority therc. No com 
plaint was despatched any where, although there was a Post and Telegraph 
Office at that place . P . W . 2 , admittedly , was a worker and a Polling Agent of 
the Petitioner. He is supposed to have seen the Respondent moving about in a 
car on the 8th of March , 1957, at Ramganj and there was a flag with a picture 
of the Ashoka Chakra placed in front of that car, which , at the rear had the sign 
of the fish , a symbol af the Uttar Pradesh Government. Nowhere in the Peti 
tion it has been stated that the Respondent used the national flag or any national 
emblem or any Government symbol at Ramganj. There is no evidence that 
there was ventilation about this corrupt practice before any authority , although , 
P . W . 2 had ample opportunity to do so . P . W . 5 has stated about the use of a 
national flag by the Respondent on his car at Gauriganj. According to him the 
flag was on the front of the car and on the rear side -bumpers , there were symb 
ols of the Ashoka Chakra . This was during the second meeting at Gauriganj. 
The witness was a canvasscr for Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh , an Independent 
candidate , for the Vidhan Sabha. At first hc belonged to the Congress party , 
but, later on , in 1952, he became a member of the Praja Socialist Party . It may 
be remembered that the petitioner was also an Independent candidate but . 
uthough , a corrupt practice of this nature had been committed in his (witness s ) 
very presence , there was no complaint anywhere. He was also the Polling Agent 
and general agent for Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh . It is difcult for me to put 
any reliance on this witness . P . W . 9 speaks about the use of the national Aag 
at Musafirkhana , which is not in the particulars glven in the Petition . He has 
said that when notices like Exhibit 2 were being distributed a tricolour flag 
with the print of Ashoka Chakra on it was flying on the car of the Respondent. 
This witness does not belong to the locality and had come to Musafirkhana to 
purchase cloths about which there is no corroborative evidence . The evidence 
of this witness appcars to be of a chance character , P . W . 10 has deposed ubout 
the use of the national flag by stating that he used to see the Respondent moving 
about in his car using a national flag with the picture of Ashoka Chakra on it. 
This witness was also a worker , Polling Agent, and canvasser for Sri Awadhesh 
Narain Singh , an Independent candidate , and, according to his own statement, 
he did not want the congress to win the election . It would appear, therefore , 
that there is the evidence of P .Ws 5 and 10 only , regarding the use of the national 
flag at Gauriganj, which particular has been mentioned in the Petition , and 
there is no mention in the Petition about the use of such a flag at Araru - Baba - ka 
Mela , at Musafirkhana and at Ramganj. The use of the flag , it made on the 15th 
and 18th of January , 1957, was harmless , and the Respondent s witnesses have 
denled the use of the national flag at any time when the election work was going 
on . There is , accordingly , no evidence, worth the name, to hold that the national 
dag was used by the Respondent. It should be held , therefore, that he had not 
committed the corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 - subsection ( 3 ) 
of the Representation of the People Act . 


930 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


[ PART 1 


- - - 


The first part of the issue no. 2 and issue no . 9, are answered in the negative 
against the Petitioner, 


Issue Nos. 4 and 5 : 


The relevant paragraphs in the Petition are paragraph 10 , 11 ( a ) , and 11 ( a ) ( 1 ) 
and 11 ( a ) ( ii ) . Paragraph 10 is in general terms and it is alleged that the 
Respondent took recourse to flaud , intentional misrepresentations, corrupt prac 
tices and other electoral offences as detailed in the following paragraphs, namely 
paragraphs. 11 ( a ) , 11 ( a ) ( i) , and 11 ( a ) ( ii ) . Paragraphs 11 ( a ) relates that one 
Kunwar Rananje Singh of Amethi had contested the election for a seat in the 
Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from the Amethi constituencey as an In 
dependent candidate against a congress candidate in the Gencral Elections of the 
year 1952 and had succeeded by huge majority of yotes . This time, he was won 
over by the Respondent who gave promise to him that he would be nominated 
as a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council it he did not stand in the 
election . It is alleged that on account of this offer and promise Kunwar Rananje 
Singh became an active supporter of the Respondent and held public meetings in 
support of Respondent s election , in Kali Kan , Amethi, Gauriganj, and other 
places , made speeches in favour of the Respondent no . 1 and distributed amongst 
the electorate notices , a copy of which has been marked Exhibit 1 . It has been 
brought out in evidence and it has not been denied that Kunwar Rananje Singh 
did not stand in the last election , although he was a popular figure in the loca 
lity , that he was a supporter of the Respondent and had , afterwards , becn nomi 
nated to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council. The Respondent, on the other 
hand , has said that he was not in a position to get the nomination of Kunwar 
Rananjc Singh for a seat in the Legislative Council and that he had never held 
out any promise or offer to him as alleged . He is supported by R . W . 20 Accord 
ing to the Respondent, he was not a member of the Parliament and had no 
influence to get any man nominated in the Legislative Council. He has admitted 
that he knows Kunwar Rananje Singh for a long time and that on the 16th of 
January , 1957, he called on him at Amethi, which was merely a courtesy call. 
He has further stated that there was no talk about the coming election , but, 
during the election he had asked him to work for him , which he did and on two 
occasions accompanied him in his election tour. The question to be decided is 
whether the Respondent held out a promise to Kunwar Rananjc Singh on the 
16th of January, 1957, The only witness for the Petitioner , on this matter, is 
Sri Bindeshri Prasad Tewari ( P . W . 25 ) . He says that he was present when the 
Respondent arrived at the house of Kunwar Rananje Singh on the 16th of 
January , 1957. He has rendered an explanation for his presence in as much as 
he, himself , had approached Kunwar Rananje Singh to fight the election on the 
ticket of the Praja Socialist Party and the later had told him that the Respondent 
wag coming to him on the 16th of January, 1957 , and that he would give his 
answer after he had met him . It is difficult for me to believe that he would 
choose just that time, on the 16th of January , and not after that date to go to 
Kunwar Rananje Singh in order to obtain his decision . According to him the 
Respondent had a talk with Kunwar Rananje Singh in his presence and the 
Respondent told Kunwar Rananje Singh that he should not stand this time for 
the Assembly for which he would be made a member of the Legislative Council. 
This witness , admittedly , has hostile interest to that of a congress candidate as he 
is the District Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party at Sultanpur , He has ad 
mitted that he once belonged to the Congress party but as his views became 
different he left that organization . In the last election of 1957, it is his further 
admission , that he wanted to see the Praja Socialist candidate to be victorious 
against the Congress wherever there was a contest between these two parties . 
He has stated in his cross- examination that he was not known to the Respondent 
when he met him at the house of Kunwar Rananje Singh but was introduced to 
him as the Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party after the talk . It is hardly to 
be belicved that such introduction would take place after the talk about his 
nomination in the Legislative Council was over . It is improbable that Kunwar 
Rananje Singh who knew him to be a Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party 
would enter upon a conversation relating a matter which do vividly amounted to 
a corrupt practice . It is equally improbable that the Respondent would start 
talking with Kunwar Rananje Şingh on such a vital but confidential matter in 
the presence of an unknown person without even asking as to who the person 
was, P . W . 24 has stated in his cross - examination that he did not complain to 
any authority about this attempt to win over Kunwar Rananje Singh ; nor did he 
get it printed in the news -paper that Respondent was attempting to influence 
men by promising seats in the Council. If these facts were true, and when 
P . W . 24 was disappointed in not getting Kunwar Rananje Singh as a candidate 


$ ro . % (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


031 


for his party , he would have, in the ordinary course , at once ventilated this fact 
of gross corrupt practice in the news- papers , or put the matter before some 
authority in the shape of a complaint. Nothing of that kind was done, and I am 
afraid , I am not in a position to accept the uncorroborated testimony of only one 
witness which is opposed to the natural reaction of an individual. I hold , ac 
cordingly , that there was no promise or offer advanced to Kunwar Rananje Singh 
by the Respondent as alleged in the Petition , 


In paragi aph 11 ( a ) it has been stated that Kunwar Rananje Singh held pub 
lic meetings in support of the Respondent at many places including Kalikan . 
Amethi and Gaurigan ). It is not stated in paragraph 11 ( a ) that Kunwar 
Rananje Singh gave any speeches at these public meetings. It is merely alleged 
in this paragraph that the respondent attended most of these meetings arranged 
by Kanwar Ranande Singh and there he (Respondent) gave out threats that a 
Hindu voting for the Pctitioner would render himself a subject of divine dis 
pleasure o , spiritual censure as he was carrying on the trade in animal bones , 
including in particular boncs of cows, and , would leave no stone unturned to 
get cow - slaughter started again . In sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 11 ( a ) 
where particulars have been given with respect to the meeting at Amethi held 
on 16th January , 1957 , at 11 A . M ., it has been stated that Kunwar Rananje Singh 
was one of the four who had addressed that meeting . It is not mentioned in 
this sub - paragraph which supply the particulars of the corrupt practice men 
tioned in paragraph 11 ( a ) that Kunwar Rananje Singh addressed the meetings 
at Kali Kaln , Gauri Ganj and other places. There is only one witness , namely , 
P . W . 18 , who has spoken about Kunwar Rananje Singh canvassing at Kalikan 
stating that the Petitioner was a Pakistani agent, a trader in bones and that cow 
slaughter would start again if he succeeded . This witness is a lawyer and in the 
1952 election had worked for Kunwar Rananje Singh . On hearing the canvassing 
and the speech of Kunwar Rananjc Singh he concluded that it was against the 
law and amounted to a corrupt practice , but he neither protested then and there 
nor submitted any complaint anywhere. He said that he expressed his grievan 
ces in some of the news - papers, but, unfortunately , no such newspaper has been 
proved and the witness has said that he is not in a position to produce that news 
paper in which he disclosed his grievances. This witness cannot be said to be 
an independent one as he did not want the congress to win and was conscious 
of the fact that his own election was being affected by the speech and canvassing 
of Kunwar Rananje Singh , who was working for the Congress party . I refuse , 
therefore, to believe this witness that he saw Kunwar Rananje Singh either 
canvassing or speaking in a meeting at Kali Kan , as alleged . P . W . 24 , Sri 
Bindeshri Prasad Tewari, the District Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party at 
Sultanpur, had attended the meeting at Amethi, which was addressed by the 
Respondent and others, but he does not say if Kunwar Rananje Singh stated in 
this meeting at Amethi that the Petitioner was a trader in bones, that cow -claugh 
ter would start again if he succeeded and that a Hindu would render himself an 
object of divine displeasure and spiritual censure by voting in his favour. It 
is the petitioner s case that the meetings on the 15th and 16th of January , 1957 , 
were attended by a large number of Government Officers and other persons re 
presenting all parties and it stands against all probabilities that in such a meeting 
Kunwar Rananje Singh would raisc a communal alarm , give out threats to the 
Hindu section of the public and would also refer to other matters mentioned in 
paragraph 11 ( a ) . My finding , accordingly , is that Kunwar Rananje Singh 
did not address any meeting in the manner alleged in paragraph 11 ( a ) and 
11 ( a ) ( 1 ) . 


It is also alleged in paragrpah 11 ( a ) and 11 ( a ) ( ii) that Kunwar Rananje 
Singh published and distributed notices like Exhibit 1 among the electorate . 
The exhibit, as already stated , is Appendix I and the Respondent has said that 
he came to know about this notice only when he received a copy of the Petition 
along with the copies of the appendices . His witnesses have also denied the 
printing , the publication or the distribution of notices like Exhibit 1, anywhere , 
within the constituency . P . W . 7 , Narain Goswami, has deposed that his Press 
at Lucknow printed Exhibit 1 in the month of February , 1957, at the instance of 
Kunwar Rananje Singh . He has said that he printed one thousand or two 
thousand copies of Exhibit 1 and charged about Rs. 7 or 8 , for the same. It is 
difficult to believe this witness that notices like Exhibit 1 were printed at the 
instance of the Kunwar, or on behalf of the Respondent. He has said that 
there is an order book in the Press and the order for printing of this notice was 
entered in a register . Unfortunately , neither the order book nor the register 
has been produced in this case . The witness admits that Kanwar Rananje 
Singh did not personally come to the Press to place the order but his Secretary 


932 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 


[PART II 


came and the Secretary was probably one Ram Kishore Shastri. On further 
cross - examination the witness says that he maintains a Cash book in which all 
payments are entered but that cash book has not been produced to show that any 
payment was made by Kunwar Rananje Singh or by his Private Secretary . 
He again admits that the counterfoil for the receipt of Exhibit 1 still exists in 
the Press, but that, too , has not been produced . The Petitioner , therefore , to my 
mind , has signally failed to prove the printing of Exhibit 1 either by or on behalf 
of Kanwar Rananje Singh . 

On behalf of the Petitioner , P . W 1 Paras Nath Dwivedi, P . W . 2 Zamin 
Ali Khan , P . W , 5 , Sri Ram Pal Pande P . W . 17 , Sri Jagat Narain , and P . W . 18 , 
Sri Vijai Pal Pande , have been examined to prove the distribution of notices 
llkc Exhibit 1 at various places . P . W . 1 has stated about the distribution of 
Exhibit 1 at Araru - Baba - ka -Mela which does not find any mention in the petition . 
P . Ws, 2 , 5 , and 17 have deposed about its distribution at Gauriganj and P . W . 18 
has stated about its distribution at Amethi. None of these witnesses are residents 
of these plares . I have already indicated how P . Ws. 1 , ? , and 5 cannot be termed 
as independent witnesses inthis case . According to P . W . 2 Kunwar Rananic 
Singh was distributing notices like Exhibit 1 in Gauriganj in presence of agents 
and workers of other candidates . This is hard to believe in absence of any 
corroboration . He has stated in his cross - examination that when he read 
Exhibit 1 at the spot he realized that its distribution was unlawful and unfair 
and that thc Petitioner would be harmed by this distribution . It is strange, 
however , that he would not object immediately cither to the Respondent or to 
Kunwar Runanje Singh , nor , bring the matter to the notice of the uuthorities . 
He informed the Petitioner on the next day about the distribution of such notices 
but it is equally strange that the later did not produce him either before the 
District Magistrate or before the Election Officer. He, himself, did not think it 
necessary to go and report to the District Magistrate and to the Election Officer . 
P . W . 5 who is now a member of the Praja Socialist Party and at that time was 
working for an Independant candidate has deposed about the distribution of 
Exhibit i by Kunwar Rananje Singh in the second meeting at Gauriganj while 
Respondent was sitting in his car. I am not prepared to believe a witness who 
is not wholly dişinterested without corroboration . The next witness is P . W . 17 
and his cvidence appeary to be hat of a chance character . He had gone to the 
village of his maternal grand - father and from that place went to Gauriganj, out 
of curiously , as other people were proceeding there . P . W . 18 is the lawyer about 
whose evidence I have discussed already . It is extremely difficult to rely upon 
such a witness . On the other hand , there is the evidence of the Respondent, 
himselt, who has said that he saw this notice for the first time when he received 
a copy of the Petition that he did not authorize Kunwar Rananje Singh to get 
such notices printed , published or distributed and that such notices were never 
printed , published or distributed , with his consent or within his knowledge . He 
is supported by R . W . 15, Sri Ganga Prasad Gupta , a Medical Practitioner who 
has his house at Gauriganj Bazar. He does not belong to any party and has said 
that he remains at his dispensary from 8 A . M , to 12 NOON and again from 4 P . M . 
to 5 P . M . His shop and his house are in the same building . He has said that 
there was no distribution of notices like Exhibit i by Kunwar Rananje Singh 
in his presence and he is supported by R . W . 16 , Sri Ram Kumar , who is a Sabha 
pati of village Katra Lalganj. Gauriganj Bazar is held on the lands between 
two villages, one is Madho Pur and the other Katra Lalganj, where this witness 
resides . He has said that in the first week of February , 1957, there was a con 
gress meeting at Gauriganj Bazar which was addressed by the Respondent, but, 
in that meeting Kunwar Rananje Singh was not present. He was also not 
present in the Gauriganj mecting held on the 16th of January , 1957. He has also 
averred that no Parcha was distributed in any of the two mectings . It was 
suggested to him that he had come to depose at the instance of the Block 
Development Officer which has not been substantiated . The other two witnesses , 
on this point, are Sri Guru Prasad Singh ( R . W . 20 ) and Sri Ram Saran Dass 
( R . W . 23 ) . R . W . 23 is the owner of the land on which the Bazar known as 
Araru -baba -ke -Mela takes place. He knows Kanwar Rananje Singh and has 
deposed that he (Kunwar Rananje Singh did not come to the Bazar area for 
the last two or three years. He discredits the evidence of P . W . 1 about the dis 
tribution of this notice ( Exhibit 1 ) at Araru - baba - ka Mela , and he appcars to 
me to be an independent witness . The only suggestion to him was 
that he had come to depose at the instance of Kunwar Rananje Singh 
and Rama Kant and on account of an enmity with Sri Bajpai ( P . W . 25 ) . There 
is nothing to show how he could be influenced by Kunwar Rananje 
Singh and Sri Rama Kant, and about Sri Bajpai he has volunteered that at 
present he has friendship with him , I find therefore, that the Petitioner has not 
been able to prov ethe distribution of Exhibit 1 by Kunwar Rananje Singh at 


Src . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


933 


- 


Araru -baba -ka -Mela , at Gauriganj, or , at Amethi. In view of this finding 
whether Exhibit l was distributed in the presence of the Respondent or was 
distributed with his consent docs not arise at all . 


I shall now advert to the question whether notices like exhibit 2 were dis 
tributed by one Rudra Pal Misra , said to be a congress worker , as mentioned 
in paragraph 11 ( a ) and in paragraph 11 ( a ) ( i ) . No particular is given in para 
graph 11 ( a ) about the distribution of this exhibit. It is merely stated that a 
notice like Exhibit 2 was printed , published and distributed amongst the dectorate 
by Shri Rudra Pal Misra . In sub -paragraph ( 11 ) of paragraph 11 ( a ) where 
it is supposed , the particulars about this subject would be given , it has only been 
stated as follows, " Similarly the Respondent No. I know the untruthfulness and 
falschood of the contents of the notice printed , published and distributed dui lhe 
constituency by Shri Rudra Pal Misra, ( A Copy of the same is attached to the 
Petition as Appendix 3 ) . It was also distributed in the knowledge and in the 
presence of the Respondent No . 1 throughout the constituency " . It would appear , 
therefore , that particulal s about this corrupt practice have not been supplied 
by the Pctitioner, although , full opportunity was given to hum . No place, time 
or date of the distribution by Shri Rudra Pal Misra of Exhibit 2 has been men 
tioned in any of the paragraphs of the Petition . It was the duty of thc Petitioner 
to give these particulars to enable the Respondent for mecting these allegations. 
On the face of it the story of distribution of this Exhibit by Rudra Pal Misra should 
at once be rejected . flowever, I shall discuss the evidence led by the parties on 
this matter to find out whether in spite of absence of the particulars in the 
Petition the evidence led by the Petitioner can be accepted . The Potitioner 
has examined Dashrath Prasad Pathak , P . W . 15 , to prove that this notice was 
printed in the Janmat Press. This witness produced a mutilated manuscript, 
which has been marked Exhibit 8 and has dcposed that this is the original of 
Exhibit 2 which had been published in his Press . He is however , unable to 
say who gave this Exhibit 8 to the Press for the purpose of publication . He 
also could not say in whose hand -writing it was. He did not compose Exhibit 
8 and could not say that it was received in the Press . One Shri Kedar Singh 
is the Manager of this Press , but he has not been examined , although , it was 
he who could have thrown some light on Exhibit 2 . P . W . 25 is Sri Viddya Dhar 
Bajpai who has deposed that Exhibit 8 is in the hand -writing of Shri Rudra Pal 
Misra . It appears from his cross - examination that he is not at all an independent 
witness. At one time he belonged to the Congress and so did his wife, Shrimati 
Savitri Devi. They were not given congress tickets in the last election and 
he admits that if his wife had been given a congress ticket he would not have left 
the congress organization . He had at first stood as a candidate against the Res 
pondent but withdrew as he thought that he had no chance. He had intended 
to stand from the same constituency , i. e ., the Musafirkhana constituency against 
the Respondent. His wife had been fighting the election against Shrimati 
Prabhawati Devi, who was a congress candidate . The husband of this Shrimati 
Prabhawati Devi was a strong supporter of the Respondent in the last election . 
Shrimati Savitri Devi, the wife of the witness, could not succeed and brought 
an election case against Shrimati Prabhawati Devi, In this case the Respondent 
appeared as a witness against Shrimati Savitri Deyi. I am not prepared , there 
fore , to accept the sole testimony of this witness as a proof of the fact that Exhi 
bit 8 was in the hand -writing of Sri Rudra Pal Misra R . W . 28 the Respondent 
has stated that he came to know about Exhibit 2 for the first time when he 
received a copy of the petition with the appendices. He never authorized any 
body to get notice like Exhibit 2 , printed , published or distributed and that 
Shri Rudra Pal Misra was not working for him in the election . He has also 
said that if Sri Rudra Pal Misra had printed such a notice that was without 
his consent or knowledge . At the same time he has deposed that Sri Viddya 
Dhar Bajpai, in the last election , considered him as his cnemy number one. In 
cross - examination , he has said , that Sri Rudra Pal Misra was a congress -man but 
there was ú doubt about his loyality as he was a man of Sri Ganpat Sahai, who had 
been refused a congress ticket . He has, however, admitted that Rudra Pal Misra 
might have been his Polling Agent and had neither been suspended nor expelled 
from the congress during the clection days Sri Rudra Pal Misra has not been 
examined , but, I cannot draw an inference against the Respondent on account 
of his non - examination the evidence about the authenticity of Exhibit 8 is so 
scanty and interested 


The distribution of Exhibit 2 has been deposed to by P .Ws, 1 , 2 , 5 , 9 , 10 12 , 
and 21 . I have already given my reasons for not believing the cvidence of almost 
all these witnesses . Even P . W . 12 is at present a member of the Praja Socialist 
Party and there is no corroboration of his statement. According to him ho 
received a notice like Exhibit 2 at the Pakhaull meeting, but that notice could 


934 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28, 1881 


[Part II 


not be produced in the court as that is said to have been misplaced somewhere . 
Similarly , P . W . 21 also belongs to the Socialist Party . Although , after reading 
Exhibit 2 his impression was very bad , he did not speak anything to Sri Rudra 
Pal. According to him he had a talk with Sri Rudra Pal afterwards and Rudra 
Pal is said to have told him that such notices like Exhibit 2 he got printed and 
circulated at the instance of Dr. Keskar. At that time he was canvassing for 
one Ram Bahadur, who was a candidate for the Praja Socialist Party . He neither 
protested to Sri Rudra Pal nor complained about the distribution of this notice 
at any police station . He did not send a copy of the notice to the Petitioner and 
did not make any report about it to him at any time. I am , therefore , not willing 
to place any reliance either on this witness or the other witnesses who have 
come forward to depose about the distribution of Exhibit 2 , Issues 4 and 5 are , 
accordingly , answered against the Petitioner . 


Issue No . 6 


This issue relates to the allegations made in paragraph 11 ( b ) of the Petition , 
It is said that the Private Secretary to Kunwar Rananjaya Singh , Sri Ram Kishore 
Shastri, sent in a local newspaper, called the Sanatan . a notice (Exhibit 7 ) . This 
notice appeared as a news- item in the Bharat, and has been marked Exhibit 3 - 1 , 
It is stated in this notice that the Petitioner was spending money lavishly and 
was purchasing votes. It also stated about an alleged disturbance of a speech 
while being delivered by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh by Sri Vijai Pal Pande, said 
to have been a supporter of the Petitioner , P . W . 6 , Sri L . M . Tripathi, has proved 
Exhibit 3 - 1 and P . W . 14 , Sri Raja Ram , has proved Exhibit 7 , and also the envelope 
in which the Exhibit 7 was enclosed . In his examination - in - chieť , this witness 
has stated that Exhibit 7 had been sent by Sri Ram Kishore Shastri but in cross 
examination he had to admit that he was not in a position to say who the writer 
of Exhibit 7 was and that the letter was not published by his Press . He was a 
witness for Shrimati Savitri Devi in the election case against Shrimati Prabhawati 
Devi and it was urged , on behalf of the Respondent, that the learned Tribunal 
in that case passed some adverse remarks against him and also regarding the 
books produced . That is all the evidence so far as this issue is concerned and 
I hold that the Petitioner has not been able to prove any corrupt practice as alleged 
in paragraph 11 (b ) of the Petition . The issue is decided against the Petitioner . 


Issue No. 7 


This issue relates to the charges made in paragraph 11 ( c ) of the Petition . This 
issue overlaps issue no, 5 about which I have already given my findings . It is 
stated in the first part of paragraph 11 ( c ) that the Respondent, Kunwar Rananjaya 
Singh , and other supporters and canvassers stated in open meetings that tho 
PetMioner was a Pakistani Agent and if he was elected to the House of the People 
he would vote in favour of Kashmir s accession to Pakistan , and , therefore , Hindus 
should not cast their votes for him but should cast their votes for the Respontent. 
This allegation is made by way of adding to the charges made this connection la 
sub -paragraph 11 ( a ) ( 1 ) . The names of those workers who had addressed those 
public meetings have been given in the last part of paragraph 11 ( c ), where it is 
stated that on 15th January 1957 at the P . W . D , Inspection bungalow . Sultanpur , 
at Bharkhare Higher Secondary School and at Kamta Ganj, the Respondent. 
Lachmi Narain , Gur Din Pande, Ram Nath Singh and Har Narain Singh addressed 
the public meetings mentioning the fact that the Petitioner would vote in favour 
of Kashmir s accession to Pakistan . The Petitioner has examined P . W . 11 , whose 
evidence I have already discussed . The Petitioner has also proved Exhibit 4 - 1 
and 5 - 1 which are the news- items in the Bharat dated the 14th of February , 1957 
and 28th of February , 1957 to show that on account of these utterances about 
Kashmir s accession to Pakistan Sri Vijai Pal Pande, publicly gave out that he was 
not associating anw more with the Petitioner in the election . I have already 
given my reasons for disbelieving the witnesses for the Petitioner on the charges 
that the Respondent and his workers had made election speeches on the 15th and 
16th of January , 1957, and there is no necessity to repeat them here . In my 
opinion , there is no substance in this charge and I hold that the allegations made 
in paragraph 11 ( c ) have not been proved . This issue , too . is answered against 
the Petitioner . 


not assog reasons foradidas his workers had neces 


Issue No . 8 


This issue is based upon the charges made in paragraph 11 ( d ) and sub 
paragraph 11 ( d ) ( i ) of the Petition . It is alleged that systematic appeals had 
been made for the Respondent to refrain from voting for the Petitioner on the 
grounds of caste and community . It is stated that one Srl Jagga Dass ( R . W . 22 ) , 


= 


SEC. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1950 / CIAITRA 28 , 1881 

935 
- - 

= 

= = 
a Harijan , was a supporter of the Respondent no . 1 and he appealed to the Harijan 
voters of that constituency to vote and work for the Respondent as Harijans were 
Hindus and they should never like to support the Petitioner , who was a Muslim . 
It is also stated in sub -paragraph 11 ( d ) ( i ) that the Respondent addressed meetings 
in which he asked the voters to refrain from voting for the Petitioner on the 
grounds of caste and community . These meetings were the very same ones about 
which particulars have been given in sub -paragraph 11 ( a ) ( i ) . So far as the 
charges referred to in this sub -paragraph is concerned I have already held the 
same to be untrue. There is no evidence about any meeting at Lambhua Bazar 
on 8th of February , 1957, and there is also no evidence that Sri Jagga Dass 
( R . W . 22 ) addressed any of the meetings mentloned in sub -paragraph 11 ( a ) ( 1) . 
The only witness about this charge is Sri Ram Dhan ( P . W . 13 ) , who has stated 
that Jagga Dass and others were canvassing for the Respondent stating that if 
the Harijans cast their votes for the Respondent it would be to their benefit that 
the Petitioner was a Haddiwala Musalman and no one should cast his vote for 
him , I am unable to accept the uncorroborated statement of only one witness in 
support of the charge that Sri Jagga Dass was appealing to the Harijan voters 
on communal lines. Sri Jagga Dass has been examined by the Respondent and 
he has categorically denied the allegations made by the Petitioner concerning 
him . It is true that he is an employee under the District Board , which at the 
time of the election was under the Presidentship of Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma 
( R . W . 1 ) , the Election Director of the Congress crganization , but it has been 
brought out on the record that since about one year or so Deo Kali Din Sharma 
is no longer in that position of the first man in power in that Board but is under 
the District Magistrate of the Sultanpur district . It is dificult for me to believe , 
therefore , that R . W . 22 was speaking a deliberate lie at the instance of Sri Deo 
Kali Din Sharma. In any case , the evidence relating to this charge is totally 
insufficient and I am inclined to believe R . W . 22 that he did not anyass for the 
Respondent on caste and communal lines . I hold , accordingly , that the allegations 
contained in paragraph 11 ( d ) and 11 ( 2 ) (1 ) are not correct and no corrupt practice 
had been committed for the Respondent by making any systematic appcal on the 
grounds of caste and community . This issue is, accordingly , decided against the 
Petitioner . 
Issue No. 9 : 

This issue rests upon the allegations made in paragraph 11 ( e ) and sub -para 
graph 11 ( e ) ( i ) . The allegations based upon this issue has already been discussed 
and disposed of with that of issue no . 2 as they practically overlap each other . 
It is with respect to the use of the national flag , during tho period between 15th 
of January , 1957 to 18th of January , 1967, 26th of January, 1957 to 6th of February 
1957 and 15th of February , 1957 to 9th March 1957. The witnesses are the same 
namely , P .Ws. 2 , 5 , 9 , 10 , 11, and 12 , none of whom can be termed as disinterested 
or independent witnesses I repeat here that the Petitioner has not been able to 
prove the use of thc national flag on any of the two periods commencing from 
26th of January , 1957 and if that flag had been used on the 15th and 16th of 
January , 1957, that was not a corrupt practice , because , as stated by the Respondent 
in his written statement, the election process had not started and on those two 
dates the Respondent had been visiting the Sultanpur arca in his official capacity , 
alone . My finding on this issue is , therefore, that the Respondent is not guilty 
of any corrupt practice by using the national Aag on the 15th and 10th of January . 
1957 and that no corrupt practice , by using the national flag , was committed by 
him during the election days . The Issuc has already been answered in the 
negative . 
Issue No. 10 : — 

This issue is based upon the allegations made in paragraph 11 ( f ) of the 
Petition . This issue also overlaps issue no . 5 . It refers to the publication of 
the notices, Exhibits 1 and 2 and states that the Respondent no . 1 and his agents 
and workers knew the facts contained in those Exhibits to be false and , therefore , 
the Respondent must be held guilty of having committed the corrupt practice 
within the meaning of section 123 , sub - section ( 4 ) of the Representation of the 
People Act. As my Andings are already there with respect to the same facts 
based on a different charge , the same should apply with respect to this charge 
as well, and accordingly , I hold that the Respondent has not committed any 
corrupt practice under section 123, sub -section ( 4 ) of the Representation of People 
Act. The issue is accordingly answered in the negative. 
Issue No. 11 : — 


This issue depends upon the facts mentioned in paragraph 11 ( g ) and sub 
paragraph 11 ( g ) ( 1) of the Petition . It is stated in paragraph 11 ( £ ) that the 
Respondent, himself , and through his workers, supporters and agents namely Srl 


936 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 . 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 (Part 11 

- S 
Deo Kali Din Sharma, Sri Ram Jiawan Dube , Sri Gur Prasad Singh , Sri Rama 
Kant Singh and others , engaged a number of ekkas and rickshaws to convey the 
voters to the various polling stations, and thereby committed , the corrupt practice 
as defined in section 123 , sub - section ( 5 ) of the Representation of the People Act. 
In sub -paragraph 11 ( ) ( 1) it is alleged that the ekkas and rickshaws referred 
to in paragraph 11 ( 8 ) were hired and procured to convern the voters to the Polling 
Stations at Lambhua and Ramganj, on the 9th of March , 1957 , by the Respondent 
and his workers and supporters and that the hiring had taken place on the 8th 
of March , 1957, through Sri Banke Behari, a worker of the Respondent with his 
consent. It is significant that in these two paragraphs no name of any Ekkawala 
or Rickshaw -puller has been given and the name of any voter said to have been 
carried to the Polling Station has been deliberately omitted , In spite of sufficient 
opportunity given to the Petitioner to give particulars of his general charges 
There is no evidence that Sri Dev Kali Din Sharma, Sri Ram Jiawan Dube, Sri 
Gur Prasad Singh and Sri Rama Kant, engaged any Ekka or Rickshaw to convey 
the voters to any Polling Station . The evidence on this charge rests upon the 
depositions of P .Ws. 2 , 3, and 4 . All these depositions relate to the conveying of 
Voters to the Polling Station at Ramganj only and not at Lambhua . According 
to P . W . 3 , Sri Nageshar , he was called to the congress office of Ramganj Bazar 
one day before the polling 1. e ., on the 8th of March , 1957 and there was talk 
between one Sri Banke Behari and the Respondent about bringing the old men 
and women voters to the polling station by means of conveyances . Then some 
rickshaw -pullers and ekkawalas were called in presence of the Respondent and 
on the next day, P . W . 3 who was working for the Congress at that time, brought 
cight voters to Ramganj Polling Station from village Khara Pur on two ekkas 
and five or seven voters from village Bhikapur, similarly on two ckkas, tor 
which he was paid by Banke Bchari, Rs. 3 / - , as remuneration for the work done 
by him on the Polling day. P . W . 4 , Sri Ram Sukh , is a rickshaw -puller . He, too , 
has deposed about his engagement by Banke Behari in presence of the Respondent 
on the 8th of March , 1957 and about his bringing old men and 
women from Ramganj and Durgapur to the Congress Omco at Ramganj. 
They are supported by P . W . 2 . Şri Zamin Ali Khan , the admitted 
worker of the Petitioner who has said that he was the polling agent of the 
Petitioner at Ramganj Polling Station and on the polling day he saw many voters 
being taken there on rickshaws and ekkas carrying the congress flags . Banke 
Behari and Bhagauti Din Singh were working for the Congress and there were 
six or seven such rickshaws and six or seven such ekkas . He took down the 
names of two rickshaw -puller , namely Ram Sukh ( P . W . 4 ) and Ganpat (not 
examined ) . According to him about 100 or 125 such voters were brought on 
these rickshaws and ekkas. This story about bringing old and feeble voters of 
both the sexes to Ramganj Polling Station or to Ramganj Congress Office appears 
to me wholly absurd . According to P . W . 2 the worker and polling agent of the 
Petitioner, who is said to have been working at that particular polling station 
of Ramganj on that day , about 14 vehicles were engaged in bringing about 100 
or 125 voters, but it is a matter of surprise that nothing was done to prevent 
such voters being brought on the vehicles. According to P . W . 4 he was carrying 
the voters from 7 A . M . and finished his work at 5 P . M . P . W . 2 was conscious 
of the fact that the use of vehicles to bring voters was a corrupt practice and 
he verbally complained to the Polling Omcer who merely told him that he was 
going to ask the party not to bring voters on vehicles . According to this witness 
the Polling Officer did not ask the Congress party to refrain from bringing votery 
on vehicles , yet , no written complaint was Aled , either before the Polling Omcer 
or before any superior authority . Again , this very witness , has admitted that 
Shrimati Savitri Devi, who was fighting against the Congress and her husband 
Sri Vidya Dhar Bajpai ( P . W . 25 ) were present at that polling station throughout 
the polling , yet, they were not informed of this gloring corrupt practice . It is 
extremely improbable that in presence of persons who were dead against the 
Congress and were Aghting the election against that party, Banke Behari or 
any other worker for the Respondent would dare hring voters on rickshaws and 
ekkas throughout the day when polling was going on . P . W . 4 has also admitted 
that there was a Police Station at Ramganj and that there were 10 or 12 police 
constables present at thc Polling Station . It is surprising that no complaint was 
made to any police constable or to any police officer. This very witness has 
also stated that no person prevented him from bringing the voters to the polling 
station , which is improbable , when rival parties and their candidates were all 
present at and near about the polling station . Accordingly , t reject the story 
about bringing voters on rickshaws and ekkas as being utterly untrue. 


The Respondent ( R . W . 26 ) has denied consenting to a hiring of ekkas or 
rickshaws and so have R . W . 1, Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma and Sri Bhagauti Din 
( R . W . 12 ) who were working in this connection , according to P . W . 3 , R . W . 9 , 
Sri Gaya Prasad and R . W . 10 , Sri Jagat Pal Singh , alias Babban Singh have 


Sec. 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


937 


deposed that the Respondent did not come to the Congress Election Office one day 
prior to te date of polling. These two witnesses were polling agents of the 
Respondent, and therefore, can be described as being interested in him . There 
is , however , the evidence of R . W . 2 , Sri Bukhare and R . W . 25 , Sri Pudai, in sup 
port of the Respondent s denial that no vehicle was engaged for bringing voters 
to the polling , station . R . W . 2 is an Ekka -driver and he says that on the polling 
day he did not carry any villager to the polling station . He has given reasons 
for not plying the vehicle on that day as he says , the courts were closed and as 
he had to vote he thought it best not to take out his vehicle . R . W . 25 is another 
ekka driver . He has denied having gone to Ramganj one day before the date 
of polling to be engaged by Banke Behari as alleged by P . W . 3 and has said that 
he and Bukhare did not ply their ekkas on the dates of polling and did not bring 
any voter to the polling station . It appears this witness had gone to the polling 
station with his family to cast votes and had remained at the polling station for 
about 3 or 3 - 30 p . M . It has been suggested to them that they had come to depose 
falsely at the instance of Banke Behari, Gaya Prasad , Bhagauti Din , and others , 
but I am inclined to believe them when I am convinced that the story told by 
P .Ws. 2 , 3 , and 4 was extremely improbable , I hold , accordingly , that the Res 
pondent did not commit any corrupt practice by hiring any ekka or rickshaw 
for carrying voters to any polling station . This issue is answered in the negative 
against the Petitioner. 


Issue No. 12 : 

The learned counsel for the Petitioner has not pressed this issue. There is 
virtually no evidence in support of the allegations mentioned in paragraph ( h ) 
of the Petition , which is the foundation for this issue. The issue is accordingly 
answered against the petitioner . 


Issue No . 13 : 

This issue, too , is answered against the Petitioner as it has been given up by 
the learned counsel for the Petitioner and as there is no evidence in connection 
with the charge made in paragraph 11 ( i) and sub -paragraph 11 ( i) ( 1 ) . 


Issue No. 14 : 

This issue rests on the charges made in sub -paragraph ( i to vii ) of paragraph 
11 ( j ) . The charges made in sub - paragraphs ( i ) , ( ii ) , ( iii) , ( v ) , and (vi) have 
been given up by the learned counsel for the Petitioner and have not been 
pressed due to paucity of evidence . The issue concerning this sub - paragraph is , 
therefore , answered against the Petitioner . The only sub -paragraphs pressed 
under this issue are numbers iv and vii. I shall deal with them one by cne. 
The charge under sub -paragraph ( ii ) is stated in this way that an election meeting 
was convened at Pakhrauli in which Respondent No . i told the audience that it 
was he who was responsible for the restoration of the dismantled Lucknow 
Jaunpur railway line and that he had also arranged to get Pakhrauli made a 
Flag Station , that he would let the scheme materialized only if the voters of 
Pakhrauli and the surrounding villages voted for him otherwise , he would see 
that the scheme was finally dropped . The evidence about this Pakhrauli meeting 
depends on the statements made by P .Ws. 11, 12 and 23. None of these witnesses 
speak , about the threat said to have been advanced by the Respondent that if 
the villagers of Pakhrauli and the neighbouring villages did not vote for him 
he would see that the scheme was dropped altogether . According to these three 
witnesses the Respondent simply made a promise to have a railway station cons 
tructed at Pakhrauli if the public of the locality voted for him and in this con 
nection he referred to his previous achievement when the Lucknow - Jaunpur 
railway lines were restored , sometimes, in 1953 or 1954 . Now , it will not amount 
to a corrupt practice if Respondent had made only a promise of public action 
and , accordingly , I have to find out whether any threat, open or veiled was given 
out by the Respondent in this meeting at Pakhrauli. I have already discussed 
the evidence of these witnesses . P . W . 11 was a worker of Shrimati Savitri Devi 
who had stood against the Congress and was also her polling agent. He realized 
the speech to be an objectionable one and yet he did not protest to the Respondent 
or to the other speakers. He is a chance witness as he had no occasion to be 
present at Pakhrauli . He was going to Sultanpur and on the way he saw a crowd 
at Pakhrauli and decided to halt there . According to him he was going to Sultan 
pur , six miles from his village, for purchasing foodkrains, but from that 
meeting he went out to other villages for the purpose of canvassing and did not 
go anywhere to purchase the foodgrains which was his mission when he started 
from home. P . W . 12 is a member of the Praja Socialist Party. It is strange 


938 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


[P ART IL 


that during the election days he would attend only one meeting which was at 
Pakhrauli and no other. He admits in his cross- examination that except hearing 
the speeches given by the Respondent and Sri Chandra Bali Pathak , he did not 
hear any other speech given by anyone during the election . It is a strange 
chance coincidence that this witness would hear the speeches at one meeting 
which were incriminatory in nature and would not be present at any other time 
when so many other meetings were going on during those election days. The last 
witness is P . W . 23 , Dukhi Singh . If any threat of any kind had been advanced 
by the Respondent in that Pakhrauli meeting this witness would not have admit 
ted in cross - examination that the address made by the Respondent at that meet 
ing was quite fair in his judgment. If there was anything objectionable it would 
have struck him at once that the Respondent should not have made such a 
speech . None of these witnesses has recorded anywhere the speech that they 
had heard at that meeting and it is difficult for me to hold , therefore , that the 
Respondent went out of his way in giving out threats openly in a public meeting . 


The witnesses for the Respondent are R .Ws. 8 , Sri Paras Nath Tripathi and 
R . W . 13, Sri Bihari. The Respondent, himself has stated that he never made 
any speech in the manner as alleged by these witnesses for the Petitioner and 
he never held out any threats about abandoning any scheme if the people of the 
locality did not vote for him . He has also stated and that is borne out by other 
evidence that no Railway station has yet been built at Pakhrauli. In cross 
examination , he has admitted that he performed the inauguration ceremony when 
railway lines were again laid on the track between Lucknow and Jaunpur but 
no representation was made to him by the people of the locality that they required 
a station at Pakhrauli. R . W . 8 is a Headmaster of a Basic Primary Pathshala 
at Pakhrauli and R . W . 13 is a goldsmith who , too , is a resident of the same 
place . R . W . 11 , as already indicated , was not a person belonging to that locality 
and so were not P .Ws. 12 and 23 . I would rather prefer the evidence of R .Ws. 8 
and 13 to that of P .Ws. 11 , 12 , and 23 , and hold , accordingly , that the Respondent 
or any worker of his never made any speech at Pakhrauli by way of intimating 
the public of that place or bv holding out any promise • as indicated in sub 
paragraph (iv ) of paragraph 11 (j) . 


The next sub -paragraph which has to be considered is sub -paragraph (vii ) . 
It is stated in this sub -paragraph that Sri Banke Behari, a paid Bhoodan worker , 
exercised undue influence over a large number of voters by inducing them to 
vote for Respondent No. 1 and refrain from voting for the Petitioner under the 
threat that if they did not do so the lands given to them by and on behalf of 
Bhoodan Samiti would be taken back . It is stated that this Sri Banke Behari 
worked for the Respondent in the Lambhua constituency from 1st of February , 
1957 to 9th of March , 1957, and hence , according to the Petitioner s case Sri 
Banke Behari held out this threat to the electorate in Lambhua constituency 
within this period . There is only one witness in support of this allegation and 
he is P . W . 11, Sri Sarju Prasad Misra . He has said that Banke Behari asked 
him to work for the Respondent but when he went on doing the work for Shrimati 
Savitri Devi he threatened him saying that he would get the Pattas given by the 
Bhoodan Samiti cancelled . There is no material to find how Banke Behari could 
exert any influence getting the Patta given to this witness cancelled . The witness 
possess only one bigha of land and he admits that his desire was to see that no 
body for the Congress succeeded in the election from his circle . It will be too 
dangerous to depend upon the evidence of such a witness to hold that Sri Banke 
Behari exercised undue influence or held out threats in the Lambhua constituency . 
There is no evidence further that the Respondent No. 1 had consented to this 
alleged action of Sri Banke Behari. I feel no hesitation , therefore , to discard 
this charge against the Respondent and hold that both the two charges under 
the two sub -paragraphs have not been substantiated and that they are untrue . 
The issue No. 14 is also answered against the Respondent. 


Issue No. 15 : 

This issue is based upon paragraph 11 (k ) , sub -paragraph (i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii) . 
Admittedly , there is no evidence in support of the charge made in sub -paragraph 
( i ) and the charge made in sub - paragraph ( iii) is extremely vague and lack in 
particulars . These have not been pressed by the learned counsel for the Petitioner 
and I hold , accordingly , that the allegations of threats and pecuniary gratification 
mentioned in the two sub - paragraphs have not been substantiated . 

I shall now turn to sub -paragraph ( ii ) . It is stated in this sub -paragraph 
that Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, as President of the District Board , deputed Sri 
Jagga Dass ( R . W . 22 ) to canvass in support of the Respondent among the Harijans. 


SEC. X (11) ] 


THE CNETIE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 , CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


039 


= 


- 


- 


and , R . W , 22, with others , at Abhayya Kalan and six other places on different 
dates , between the 4th and 8th of March , 1957 , gave out that if the Harijans aid 
not vote for the Respondent the educational and other facilities granted to the 
Harijanş by the Government would be withdrawn and that he, himself , would 
lose his job . According to the Petitioner , if Sri Jagga Dass and others had notmade 
such speeches at Abhayya Kalan , Lambua etc ., the Harijans would have voted 
for the Petitioner and not for the Respondent. Again , the only witness in sup 
port of this charge is Sri Ram Dhan ( P . W . 13 ) , I have already disbelicved the 
sto y of canvassing by Sri Jagga Dass when discussing the issue No. 8 . I have 
found that issue against thc Petitioner , P . W . 13 has deposed of the speech of 
Jagga Dass only at one meeting 2.e , at Abhayya Kalan . On the other hand , Sri 
Jagga Dass has been examined to discredit the testimony of P . W . 13 . Sri Deo 
Kali Din Sharma, R . W . l , has also deposed that he never asked Jagga Dass to 
make such speeches . R . W . 20, Sri Gur Prasad Singh , has also denied the 
allegations I am not in a position therefore , to accept the uncorroborated testi 
mony of P . W . 13 , alone when it is stoutly denied hy Jagga Dass, himself, and 
his evidence , on close scrutiny , I find to be a reliable one. I hold , accordingly , 
that there was no speech given by Sri Jagga Dass es alleged by the petitioner . 
This issue, too, is answered in the negative against the Petitioner . 


Issue No. 16 : — 


This issue rests on the allegations made in paragraph 11 ( L ) . Paragraph ( L ) 
can be divided into two parts. In the first part of this paragraph it is said that 
the Respondent, Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, Shrimati Prabhawati Misra , Sri Ram 
Narain Misra , Sri Gur Prasad Singh and some Congress candidates in the Musafir 
khana constituency obtained assistance from the Agriculture Inspector of Musa 
flrkhana, the Panchayat Secretary of Kallyanpur , the branch Post Master of 
Garab Pur, inasmuch as the Agriculture Inspector was called to Lambua to 
influence the voters in favour of the Respondent and the Branch Post Master and 
the Sarpanches mentioned worked as polling agents . There is not a little of 
evidence about this charge . The second part of the paragraph relates to an 
alleged use of the District Board station wagon by Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, the 
then President of the District Board and his passing orders to the District Board 
School teachers of Pakhrauli Lohramau . Badain , Macanpur, Lambua and other 
places to close their schools after mid day intervals for canvassing in support 
of Respondent No. 1 . There is only one witness relating to this charge and he 
is P . W . 12 , His evidence is not strictly in accordance with the charge mentioned 
in this part of the paragraph . He states , in general, that one month before the 
election Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma came in a car and addressed two or three 
teachers at Loharamau school to close it in the interval from the next day as 
canvassing was to be done for the Respondent. He also asked the teachers to 
come to the District Board on the 4th day because thero was going to be a nieet 
ing of all the school teachers of the District . About this allegation there is no 
mention in paragraph 11 ( L ) . This witness has further stated that the teachers 
were to be told about the programme of the Respondent, in that meeting . About 
this also there is no mention in this paragraph 11 ( L ) . Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma 
has repudiated this charge by saying that he did not ask any teacher to help the 
Congress and that he did not hold any meeting asking the teachers to close the 
schools and to do the election work . 


About the use of the Station -wagon , R . W . 1 admitted that one man had com 
plained against him about the use of the station -wagon for Congress clection 
purposes before the District Magi - tratr who , however , found the complaint to be 
untrue, after making an enquiry into the matter . He has also given an explana 
tion how the station -wagon of the District Board was taken by the District Magis 
trate . It is clear from his evidence that the District Magistrate did not remove 
the station -wagon from the custody of the President of the District Board , but, 
for District Election purposes , it was taken on hire on payment of Rs. 20 per 
day . Accordingly , I am not in a position to helicve the uncorroborated testimony 
of P . W . 12 alone on this charge . I hold that the Petitioner has failed to nove 
this charge and that no corrupt practice was committed as alleged in paragraph 
( L ) . Issue No. 16 is answered in the negative against the Respondent. 


Issue No. 17 : 


This issue rests upon paragraph 11 ( m ) and relates to the publication by the 
Government of India of a postage stamp No evidence has been led on this charge 
and the learned counsel for the Petitioner has not pressed it . The issue is , accord 
ingly , answered against the Petitioner . 


[PART II 


940 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 19, 1959 /CHAITRA 28 , 1991 
= = - - 

- - = = - - - - - - - - - 
Issue No. 18 : — 


This issue rests upon a charge described in paragraph 11 ( n ) of the Petition , 
It is alleged that there was one Pahari Gujar who was working for the Petitioner 
and wielded considerable intluence in the neighbouring villages and among the 
Gujars . The Respondent No. 1, his agents, workers , supporters , and canvasser s 
attempted to influence him for refraining from working for the Petitioner, but, 
when they did not succeed , he was either abducted or killed by the Respondent 
No. 1, through his agents and workers, on 17th Fcbruary 1957. Before his abduc 
tion or death , it is said , Pahari Gujar had told Sri Jagat Narain Tewari ( P . W . 17 ) 
that he had learnt reliably about an attempt on his life or an attempt to get hiin 
abducted . Lastly , it is said , that since 17th February 1957 Pahari Gujar remain 
ed untraced and , although , an application was filed before the Superintendent of 
Police of Sultanpur by the brother of Pahari Gujar, no action was taken by him . 
It has been argued , on behalf of the Petitioner , that the Respondent and his 
workers had sufficient motive either to abduct or kill Pahari Gujar as he way 
an active worker for the Petitioner . Pahari Gujar told of the thrcats advanced 
by the Respondent s party to P . W . 17 and has not yet been hcard of since 17th 
oľ February , 1957 . From these circumstances I am asked to conclude that Pahari 
Gujar had either been abducted or killed by the Respondent, through his agents 
and workers . The witnesses upon this point, on behalf of the Petitioner , are 
1 . W . 5 , Ram Pal Pandc, and P . W . 17, Jagat Narain , P . W . 5 simply states 
that Pahari Gujar was working for the Petitioner and also for another candidate, 
Sri Awadesh Narain Singh , for whom the witness was also working at that time, 
The witness saw him ( Pahari Gujar ) for the last time on 17th of February , 1957. 
at about 10 P , M ,, and since then he las not been heard of. This witness does not 
speak of any threat put to Pahari Gujar by anyone. Nor does he say that Pahari 
Gujar was an active worker and wielded considerable influence in the neighbour 
ing villages and among the Gujars. P . W . 17 has deposed about the alleged threat. 
He has said that he last mot him on the 15th of Fcb uary , 1957, and had a talk 
with him . In that talk Pahari told him that he was threatened with death because 
tie wus working for the Petitioner. He, too , does not mention that Pahari was 
an active worker of the Petitioner and that he had considerable influence in the 
locality or among the Gujars , The Petitioner was the best person to depose 
what kind of work was being rendered by the Pathi Gujar , but, he has not 
chosen to corne to the witness box . There must have been many workers like 
Pahari Gujar who had been working for the Pctitioner , but, there is no reason 
why the Respondent and his workers would focus their attention on Paha i Gujar 
alonc to remove him from the locality cither temporarily or permanently . The 
evidence of P . W . 5 does not lead us anywhere and about the alleged threat said 
to have been given by the party of the Respondent tlicie is only one witness , i. e. 
P . W . 17 . He, too , is not a witness of a direct threat having been given to Pahari 
Gujar by anyone, but, he had said to have simply heard of it from the said Pahari, 
T he allegation has been denied and R . W . 20 has stated in crcss - examination that 
he was unaware of Pahari Gujar having scen influence on members of his own 
community . He also said that one Shamshuddin was not on good terms with 
Pahari and that he asked the villagers to try for a restoration of a cordial rela 
tionship between them . The other three witnesses on behalf of the Respondent 
are R .Ws. 17 , 18 and 19 . R . W . 17 , produced the original First Information Report 
said to have been drawn up on the statement of one Khaliq . P . W . 18 produced 
the General Diary of the case which was based and which had started on this 
First Information Report, RW , 19 , a constable clerk , has proved the First Infor 
mation Report and the signature of Khaliq and these have been marked Exhibits 
D and D - 1 respectively . This witness has further proved the General Diary 
which has been marked Exhibit ( E ) . The only criticism against this witness was 
that he got copies made of the First Information Report and the General Diary 
from before hand , although , he had not been asked to do so in the summon . A 
suggestion was tlırown to him that he reco ded something quite different from 
what Khaliq hay stated and that the signature Exhibit D - 1 was not a genuine 
onc . These suggestions are simply fantastic . This witness was not in a posi 
tion to forge the signature or manufacture a document for the purpose of this 
case when the documents rented upon a complaint made in the year 1957. From 
the First Information Report it appears that Khalig is A brother of Pahari Gujar. 
He (Pahari ) is reported to have gone to village Shiv Pura at 9 P . M . on the night 
of 17th of February , 1957 , and since then he did not appear . In this First Infor 
mation Report it is said that Pahari s wife had illicit connection with Shamshud 
din and there was dispute between him and Pahari a few days prior to his dis 
apr. carance The informant suspected Shamshuddin . the wife of Pahari. and one 
Ashraf Gujar to be the murderers of his brother . It is important to note in this 
connection that the disappearance was from 17th February 1957 and the First 
Information Report was recorded on 4th of March , 1957 , about three weeks later , 


- - - - 


SFC. 3 (ii) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 969 /CH ITRA 28, 1881 941 
- - = = 

= = 

- - - 
If there was any truth in the suggestion that the Respondent No. 1 or his workers 
had either killed or abducted Pahari it was not likely that a full brother of Pahari 
would cxhonerate them and substitute in their place Shamshuddin , the wife of 
Pahari and another man as the persons being responsible for his brother s murder 
or disappearance . There is no proof that any Petition was moved before the 
Superintendent of Police. The Superintendent of Police has been examined in 
this casc as R . W . 14 and no question was put to him about this matter . The 
anivestigation of the case did not reveal that Pahari s disappearance had anything 
to do with the election or the Resporident s party . I have no hesitation , there 
fore , to hold that the charge is a false one and there is not an iota of evidence 
in support of the charge . Accordingly , I decide this issue against the Petitioner 
holding that the allegation contained in this paragraph 11 ( n ) are not correcto 
I further hold that on this finding there is no question of the validity of the 
election being affected . 


Issue Nu, 19 : 


This issue rests upon the paragraph 11 ( o ) of the Petition which states that 
the return of election cxpenses Alled by the Respondent is incorrect and falsc in 
material particulars . No evidence has been led on this issue and has been given 
up by the learned counsel for the Petitioner . I hold , accordingly , that the elec 
tion of the Respondent has not been rendered invalid by alleged submission of 
an incorrect or false return of election cxpenses . 


Issue No . 20 : 


This issue is based upon paragraph 11 ( p ) of the Petition , it has been alleged 
in this Paragraph that one Sri Ghor Pade was the Private Secrctary of the 
Respondent and an cinployee of the Central Government, but, he came with the 
Respondent to Sultanpur, stayed with him and was incharge of the Respondent s 
election . It is significant that this paragraph lacks the essential particulars , but, 
the Petitioner has attempted to fill up the deficiency by examining witnesses who 
have stated that thc Respondent had converted the Dak Bungalow , which is the 
same as the Inspection - Bungalow Sultanpur , into his Election Office, that Sri 
Ghor Pade was living in this building and carrying on the work of the Respon 
dent s election in one of the room , and had , actually , gone to the District Election 
Office to get a copy of a list of Polling Stations, which is proved by Exhibit 10 , 
his signature, in a register kept at the District Election Omce . There was no 
whisper anywhere in paragraph 11 ( p ) about Respondent holding his private 
Election Office in the building of the Inspection bungalow , or, Sri Ghor Pade 
obtaining a copy of the list of polling stations from the District Election Office . 
The fact about Sri Ghor Pade having brought the list from the District Election 
Oncc has not been challenged by the Respondent, but, an explanation has been 
rendered by him in this way that on that day he had stopped at a little distance 
from the District Election Office to speak to certain Congress workers and had 
requested Sri Ghor Pade to go ahead to the District Election Omce and bring 
the list to hiin . It lna , been verlenently urged on behalf of the Petitioner that 
this explanarion is a new one which had not been made out by the Responrlent 
in his written statement, and for this reason the explanation should be disca ded 
and it should be held that Sri Ghor Pade was helping the Respondent in his 
election work . The Respondent could have been blamed in this manner if there 
was iny mention about the obtaining of the list of polling stations by Sri Ghor 
Pade in + 1: - Petition . As this piece of information was for the first time brought 
out in the statements of the Petitioner s witnesses, no blame can be attached 
to the Ruspondent if he has found it fit to icply to it by giving his denial and 
proviiling for a believable ( planation . The Petitioner has proved Exhibits 15 
and 16 Series, Travelling Allowance Bills of Sri Ghor Pade, to show that Sri 
Ghor Pade was moving about between Sultanpur, Lucknow , Allahabad and Delhi 
on those dates . Exhibit 15 - 4 shows that Sri Ghor Pade was halting at Sultanpur 
from 22nd February , 1957 to 9th of March , 1957. This is also not denied and 
the Respondent has stated in his cross -examination that Sri Ghor Pade used 
to stay at the Dak Bungalow with him , and that he happened to be there on his 
duty to look after his official and personal work . He had made it clear that that 
personal work did not include anything done for the election purposes, that during 
the election days he , the Respondent, was attending to his official work also as 
he used to get files and telephone calls and attend to them . Naturally he had 
hus office at the Dak Bungalow and Sri Ghor Pade was also there to look after 
his official work and also his personal work excluding any work connected with 
the clcction . The presence of Sri Ghor Padę, therefore , from 22nd February , 


942 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 


[Part 1 


1957 to 9th of March , 1957 at the Inspection Bungalow of Sultanpur , docs not 
necessarily give rise to an inference that he was carrying on the election work . 
of the Respondent. 


Conscious of this weakness in the charge as mentioned in paragraph 11 ( p ) 
the Petitioner has examined several witnesses to show that the Inspection 
bungalow was used as the private Election Office of the Respondent. As already 
stated this fact has not been mentioned in paragraph 11 ( p ) . The Respondent 
has denied and his other witnesses have stated that his election work was being 
conducted mainly from the Central Election Office situated at Sultanpur City 
and his other election work was being carried on in the private ofilcc of the 
Congress candidate who was contesting the election from the constituency for a 
seat in the Legislative Assembly . The witnesses for the Petitioner , in this con 
nection , are P .Ws. 21, 24 and 25 . P . W . 21 stated in examination - in - chief that 
Sri Ghor Pade was working for the Respondent in hs election and his office 
was at Sultanpur Dak Bungalow . This witness was canv ussing for a Praja Socia 
list Party candidate . In cross - examination , he was unable to give the day or 
the date when he visited the Dak Bungalow . According to him he accompanied 
Sri Rudra Pal Mişra to the Dak Bungalow . It is difficult for me to believe that 
Rudra Pal would bring a worker of a rival party , although , not contesting for 
a seat in the Parliament, with him to a place where election work was being 
surreptitiously carried on by the Congress party . The witness says thal Rudra 
Pal knew him very well that he was a worker for the Socialist Party and also 
knew that he (witness ) did not want the Congress to be victorious in the clec 
tion . According to the witness he stayed at the Dak Bungalow only for two 
or three minutes and even saw Rudra Pal taking the notice, Exhibit 2 , which 
was of a very incriminating nature. The next witness is P . W . 24 , the District 
Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party at Sultanpur, He has said that Sri Ghor 
Pade was incharge of the election office of the Respondent, which was situated 
in the Dak Bungalow . From his cross - examination , it appears, that he was very 
much against the Congress and , admittedly , he belonged to a rival party . Strong 
ly enough , although , he get information from Congress -workers that they were 
visiting the Dak Bungalow to get papers and money, he never chose to go there 
in order to check up the news received by him . He new that the Dak Bungalow 
was a Government property and that holding of an election office there was 
objectionable , yet he did not complain to any authority . As an explanation he 
has said that he did not complain cither orally or in writing about this irregular 
practice because the Government servants themselves were party to it. There 
was no complaint, however , made to the Election Commission who had nothing 
to do with the Local Government servants . There was also no huidle preventing 
this witness from informing the public about this corrupt practice through the 
medium of a newspaper . The last witness on the subject is P . W . 25, who is far 
from being called an independent one. Admittedly , he and his wife were expcl 
led from the Congress , his wife was lefused a Congress ticket in the last election 
and she was at that time contesting a seat in the Assembly as an Independent 
Candidate fighting the candidate set up by the Congress . The witness has said 
that the election work of Dr. Keskar used to go on in the room occupied by Sri 
Ghor Pade. In cross - cxamination , he has said , that Sri Ghor Pade had come 
to him twice and asked him to go to the Inspection - bungalow in order to see 
the Respondent who had suggested that both he and his wife should not oppose 
him in his parliamentary constituency . He has further said that he saw Sri 
Ghor Pade distributing posters, notices , papers , pencils, and cash to the workers . 
He has admitted that such acts by or on behalf of the Respondent was improper 
and illegal and must have been affecting the interest of the rival candidates. But, 
strangely cnough , he did not complain to any authority for utilizing a Govern 
ment property and obtaining the scrvices of a Government servant. He even , 
did not protest to Sri Ghor Pade as to why he was doing the election work for 
the Respondent there . When asked about his conduct in not bringing the matter 
to the notice of the authoritice the witness has said that the District Magistrate 
and other high officers were working for Dr. Keskar . He went even so far as 
to say that the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police were dis 
honest persons, but, he had to admit that he did not send any complaint in writing 
either to the Election Commission or to the President of India . I am not inclined 
to believe another explanation of this witness as to why he did not complaint 
to the Election Commission and to the President of India hecause he himself 
was not concerned . According to his own admission this illegal practice was 
affecting thc interest of rival candidates and must have been affecting the interest 
of his wife as well. In any case , nothing prevented him from publishing the 
matter in the newspaper when the election work was going on in the Inspection 
bungalow not for a day 01 two but for about a fortnight, according to thc cvidence 
of the witnesses . 


STC . 3 ( ii ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


943 


Apart from the denial by the Respondent ( R . W . 26 ) there is also the denial 
by R .Ws. 1 , 11 , and 20 . It is true that they are men belonging to the Congress 
organization but they held important posts in connection with the Congress 
viection in that constituency and were, therefore , persons competent enough to 
say if the Inspection -bungalow had been converted into a private Election Office 
of the Respondent. R . W . 1 was the Director of Congress Elections in that district . 
R . W . 11 was the President of the District Congress Committee of Sultanpur , 
during that time and R . W . 20 was, at the relevant time, the General Secretary 
of the District Congress Committee . I hoid , accordingly , that there was no 
election office of the Respondent in the Inspection -bungalow at Sultanpur and 
no elcction work was being carried on on his behalf from that place . 

P .Ws. 16 and 20 are the clerks of the District Election Office at Sultanpur. 
P . W . 20 has proved Exhibit 10 . From Exhibit 10 , and from the evidence it 
appears that it was Sri Ghor Pade who was delivered a list of polling stations 
and that Sri Ghor Pade had received it for the Respondent. This fact, alone, 
docs not prove that Sri Ghor Pade was assisting the Respondent in his election 
work . The explanation given by the Respondent and R . W , 20 may or may not 
be true but there is nothing to show that a stray act of this nature amounted 
to an assistance rendered within the meaning of section 123 , sub - section ( vii ) 
of the Representation of the People Act . 1 fail to understand how an act of this 
kind can be construed as one done in furtherance , of the prospects of a candi 
Kate s election . Sri Ghor Pade was the Private Secretary of the Respondent and 
was looking after his official and personal work excluding any working connec 
tion with the election , Even if it is conceded for a moment that coming to the 
petrol pump and getting down there was an afterthought and that the Respondent 
had asked Sri Ghor Pade at the Inspection - bungalow to go and fetch a list of 
polling stations from the District Election Office it cannot be argued that he 
made use of a Government servant for the furtherance of his prospects in his 
election . It has further been urged in this connection that Sri Ghor Pade had 
also come to the District Election Office to submit the return of clection - cxpcnscs . 
P . W . 16 , has, however , said that he is not definite whether the Private Secretary 
of the Respondent came to submit the returns. He has said that he saw the 
Private Secretary coming to the election office once or twice during the election 
but at the same time added that he could not say for what purpose he came. 
It is possible , as, explained by the Respondent, the Private Secretary might have 
come to the District Election Office as well as might have gone to the District 
Congress Office in search of him in connection with the matters which had nothing 
to do with the election . Similarly , PW . 20 said in his examination - in - chief that 
during the election the Private Secretary of the Respondent used to comc to the 
election office but could not say for how many times he visited it. He also could 
not give the time and date of his visits to this office . In my judgment, a mere 
rendering of assistance by a Government servant to a candidate does not amount 
to a corrupt practice . It must be shown that the assistance was so rendered 
for the furtherance of the prospects of the candidate s election , Afew casual 
visits to the District Election Office by Sri Gho . Pade which can be reasonably 
explained away cannot be construed as rendering of assistance in the election 
work , I hold , accordingly , that the Petitioner has failed to prove his allegation 
contained in paragraph 11 ( p ) of the Petition and that the Respondent did not 
utilize the services of Sri Ghor Pade, a Government servant, in his election work , 
during his stay at the Inspection -bungalow of Sultanpur. This issue, too , is 
answered in the negative avainst the Petitioner, and I hold that the validity of 
the election has not been effected in any manner whatsocver , 
Issue No. 21 . 

This issue ręsts upon paragraph 11 ( q ) which on account of lack of evidence 
has been given up by the lcarned counsel for the Petitioner . Accordingly , this 
issue is answered in the negative against the Pctitioner , 


Issue No. 22 . 

This issue rests on the contention put forward in paragraph 12 of the Petition . 
It says that the Respondent had taken rerourse to fraud , intentional misrepresen 
tation , corrupt practices and electoral offences and had also not complicd with 
the provisions of the Constitution of India , and the Representation of the People 
Act, and the rules made thereunder . for which the result of the election has been 
materially affected . It is also stated that if the votes would not have been obtain 
cd by the Respondent No . 1 by means of corrupt practices and clectoral offences 
the Petitioner would have obtained a majority of valid votes. This paragraph 
is more in the nature of summing up the contents of the Petition and of submis 
sion made by the Petitioner with respect to the result of the Election . I hold 
that as the particulars given in the Petition have not been substantiated and as 


944 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


[PART IB 


- - - 


- 


the Respondent has not been found to have committed any corrupt practice or 
an electoral offence, or found guilty of fraud or intentional misrepresentation , 
the result of the election has not been affected in any manner . This issue, too , 
is decided against the Petitioner . 

In conclusion , I want to add a few sentences, althoughs, I may have to repeat 
some of the observations made earlier in my judgment. 11 a case of this nature 
when the finding regarding a corrupt practice entails an electoral punishment a 
high degree of proof is necessary. It has been held in many cases that charges 
of corrupt practices are of a quasi- criminal nature and , accordingly , the buiden 
of proof is strictly upon the Pettioner. This burden , in the present Election 
Petition casc , the Petitioner has miserably failed to discharge . There is hardly 
any corroboration of the oral testimony of the Petitioner s witnesses . With res 
pect to many of the charges the evidence has been very scanty . The Constitu 
ency was one where candidates of different vocations in life stood for the 
Asscmbly or the House of the People and the organisations rival to that to which 
the Respondent belonged could not have bcen blind to the alleged coriupt prac 
tices which were said to have been going on under their very noses for some 
appreciable time. No complaint was made to any authority , who could check 
the alleged corrupt practices immediately . Explanations have been given for the 
absence of such complaints which have been found to be totally devoid of reasons 
There is no evidence worth the name thut the high Government Officers of Sultan 
pur district were backing the Respondent on his election , that they were imper 
vious to the complaints made by candidates of other partics and who went to the 
length of exposing themsclves to severe disciplinary actions which would have 
blasted their careers . Even if these District Officers were under the control of 
the Respondent or the Congress organization there is no satisfactory explanation 
why the candidates affected by the alleged partiality of the Government Officers 
did not go higher up in bringing the matter to the notice of the Election Com 
mission or ventilate their grievances in the daily and weekly newspapers of the 
district. It is not the case of the Petitioner that the Press of the locality had 
been muzzled and they could not daie publish the speeches which were uttercd 
by the Respondent and his workers in open defiance of the provisions of the 
Representation of the Pcoeple Art. Besides the Press of the district there were 
other newspapers scattered over all the country which would have published these 
allegations without any special efforts being made by the candidates who had 
been affected . The candidates were not unsophisticated villagers who would be 
cowed down by the presence of the Government Officers. Persons who had taken , 
part an interest in the election were lawyers and veteran fighters of many cloc 
tions and , although , some of them chose to publish in the local newspapers some 
thing unimportant in relation to election , they did not chose to publish matters 
which were vital to their interests and welfares . They contended to themselves 
by remaining passive ohservers to the numerous irregular and illegal practices 
committed by or on behalf of the Respondent. There is not a single witness, on 
behalf of the Petitioner , who , could be called as an independent and totally dis 
interested in this case or in the election . On the other hand , I have found thc 
evidence of the witnesses on behalf of the Respondent to be of far better credi 
bility , as, some of them have no predilection towards any party, and, those who 
have, are competent ones for the purpose of denying the charges . It is true 
that some persons against whom allegations have been directed by the Petitioner , 
such as, Kunwar Rananjaya Singh , Sri Rudra Pal, Sri Rama Kant, Sri Ghor Pade, 
have not been examined , but, no adverse inference can be drawn against the 
Respondent for their non - examination , when there was no burden cast upon the 
Respondent to discredit the allcgations or charges which have not been proved . 
In any cvent thc Petitioner has to stand or fall by the strength of his own evidence 
and not through the weakness , if any , of the evidence supplied by the Respon 
dont. 

After giving the entire evidence my anxious consideration I hold under section 
98 of the Representation of the People Act, that there is no merit in this Election 
Petition and I , therefore , direct the samne to be dismissed forthwith . Under 
section 99 of the Act I make this observation that no corrupt practice has been 
proved to have been committed by the Respondent or his agents or with his con 
sent or with the consent of his agents . I accordingly , direct that the Petitioner 
should pay the Respondent No. 1, a sum of Rs, 500 towards costs of this Petition . 
The 9th March , 1959 . 

( Sd.) K . K BANERJI 

Member , 
Election Tribunal, Uttar Pradesh , 

Allahabad . 


[No . 82 / 451/57 / 6320 . 
DIN DAYAL , Under Secy, 


Src . $ (li)] 


945 
= 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1979 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 

- — - — 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 


S . O . 798 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the article 81 of the Consti 
tution of India as modified by the Constitution ( Application to Jammu and 
Kashmir ) Order 1954 , the President, on the recommendation of the Legislature of 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir is pleased to nominate Shri Inderjit Lal 
Malhotra in the House of the People ( Lok Sabha ) to fill the vacancy caused by 
the demise of Shri Thakur Dass Malhotra 

[No. F .15 / 1 /59 - K . 
SHANKAR PRASAD , Secy . 


New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 
S . O . 799. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Preventive 
Detention Art , 1950 (4 of 1950 ) , and in partial modification of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs , 
No. S .RO. 3538 dated the 27th November , 1954 ( as amended by notifications 
Nos. S . O . 1728 dated the 22nd August, 1958 and S . O 50 dated the 5th January, 
1959 ) constituting an Advisory Board for the purposes or the said Act , the Central 
Government hereby 
( 1 ) appoints the Hon ble Mr. Justice A . N . Bhandari, Chief Justice of the 

Punjab High Court, as a member of the Advisory Board in the place 

of the Hon ble Mr, Justice Bishan Narain ; and 
( ) further appoints the Hon ble Mr. Justice A . N . Bhandari as the Chair 

man of the Advisory Board in the place of the Hon ble Mr. Justice 
G . D . Khosla , who will continue to be a memher of the Advisory 
Board . 

(No . 44 / 3 / 59 -Poll ( I ). ] 
N . SAHGAL , Jt . Sery. 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure ) 
New Delhi, the 18th April 1959 


S . O . 800 .- In cxercise of the power s conferred by Sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11. 
clausc _ ( L ) of sub - rulc ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub -rulc ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President 
hereby inakes the following amendments in the Schedule to the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance ( Department of Expenditure ) 
No . S . R . O . 639, dated the 28th Febru ’ ly , 1957, namely : 


In the said schedule , in Part II — General Central Service , class III, under 

the heading Railway Audit Offices , for the existing entries in columns 
2 to 5 against Subordinate Railway Audit Service in column 1, the 
following shall be substituted , namely : 


- - — 


- - 


- 


Chief 
Auditor. 


Chief Auditor, 


All 


Compt oller and 

Auditor Generl] . 
Chicf Aitditor , 


Deputy Chic 
Auditor . 


li 10 
( iii 


R , K , RANGAN , Dy . Secy . 


946 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

Ver Delhi, the 8th April 1959 
S . O . 801 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 3rd April , 1959 , 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


- 


- - 


- 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Assets 


Rs. 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


Capital paid up 


: : : : : 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 
80,00 , 00 ,000 


Noles . 
Rupee Coin , 
Subsidiary Coin 


5 ) 341 . 74 , 000 

3 . 39 , 000 
490 ,000 


. 


Reserve Fund . . . 
National Agricultural Credit (Long- term Opera 

tions ) Fund . . . 
Nacional Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) 

Fund . . . . . . 


25 ,00 ,00 ,000 


3 ,00 , 00 , 000 


. 


. 


Deposits : -- 
(a ) Government 

( 1) Central Governin at , 

(2 ) Other Goverments 
(b ) Banks , . 

(c ) Others . . 
Bills Payable . . 
Other Liabilities : 


. 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : -- 

(a ) Iatemal . . . . 
( 6 ) Externe ] . . . 

(c) Government Trasury Bills 
Balances held abroau * , . 
* * Loans and Advances id Govermells 
Other Loans and Advandast 
Investments . . . . 
Other Assets . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL18,1959/CHAITRA28,1881 


60 60 94,000 
11,83, 53 000 
73 ,07,86 ,000 
118 92,80 ,000 
29 ,60 ,41 ,000 
41,01 , 38 ,000 


23 , 11, 10 .000 
36 , 32, 36 . 000 
31,26 ,03,000 
97 ,85 .52000 
231,46 45 ,000 
12 ,55 43. 000 


. 


TOTAL , 


448 ,06 , 92 ,000 


TOTAL 


449,06 , 92,000 


* Includes Cash & Short term Securities. ** Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments . 

The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs . 11,32,27,000 , - adpanced to scheduled banks against usance bills unde - Scc ion I (4 ) (c ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 
Dated the 8th day of April , 1959 . 


(PARTII 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the 3rd day of April 1959 . 


ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Assels 


Rs. 


Rs . 


- 


- 


15 ,71 , 74 ,000 


- 


Notcs held in the Banking De 

partment . . . 
Notes in circulation : · 
Total Notes issued 


117 ,76 ,03 , 000 


1744 .31,39,000 


1759 ,73,13 , 000 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion : 

(u ) Held in India . . . 
(b) Held outside India . . . 
Foreign Securities 

TOTAL OF A . . . . 
B . Rupee Coin . . . . 
Goverment of India Rupee Securi 

ties 


178,00, 89.000 


295,76 , 92,000 
132. 71,24, 000 


SEC.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL18,1959/CHAITRA28,1881 


1331 ,24 , 97 ,000 


Internal Bills of Exchange and other 

commercial paper . . . 


TOTAL - LLABILITIES 


1759, 73 . 13 , 000 


TOTAL - ASSETS 


. 


. 


. 


1759 ,73 , 13,000 


Dated the 8th day of April , 1959 . 


H . V . R . Iengar . 

Governoг. 


{No. F 3 ( 2 )-BC /59 ). 
A . BAKSI, Jt. Sccy . 


ERRATUM 
In the Weekly Statement of the Affail s of the Reserve Bank of India , publish 
ed under S . O . 548 on page 624 in the Gazette of India , Part II Sec . 3 ( ü ) , dated 
the 14th March , 1959, the following correction is to be made : - 

In the heading of the Statement for the words " Statement of the Affairs of 
the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 20th February, 1959" read " Statement of 
the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 27th February, 1959." 


947 


948 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28 , 1881 [ PART IL 

= - = = = = - = = - - = 
(Department of Revenue) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 18th April 1959 
S . O . 802. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ), as in force in India and as applied to the State : 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the notitication of the Government of India in the late Finance 
Department ( Central Revenues ) No . 33 -Customs, dated the 22nd Juric , 1935 , 
namely : 
In the said notification , in Schedule 1 - Import Duties, 
( 1 ) The head F . Portuguese India , serial numbers 68, 70 and 73 and the 

entries relating thereto shall be omitted ; 
( 2 ) under the head H . Miscellancous , scrial number 77 and the entries 
relating therсto shall be omitted . 

[ No . 70. ] 


S . O . 803. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, thc Centrɔl Government hereby exempts goods imported from Gog 
into Inda ( u ) by sea at a customs po . t or ( b ) by a Land Customs Station which 
are proved to the satisiaction of the Customs Collector or the Land Customs 
Oncer as the case may be, to have been previously imported into Goa from 
India ( a ) by sea from any custum port, or ( b ) by x Land Customs Station 
respectively , provided 


( i ) that such goods are declared at the time of cxport from a customs port 

or from a . Land Customs Station as the case may be, as intended for 
re - importation into India after passing in transit through Portuguese 
India and that a certificate of such declaration in such form as may 
he prescribed by the Collector Central Excise , Bombay, is obtain 
ed from the Customs Collector oz the Land Customs Officcr respec 

Tively ; 
(31 ) that no drawhack of duty was obtained at the time of cxport ; 
(ii) that the certificate oblained at the time of the export of the goods is 

produced on their re- importation into India and that the identity of 
The goods is proved to The satisfaction of the Land Customs Officer 
or the Customs Collector as the case may be ; and 


( iv ) that the goods are re -imported into India within 60 days of the date 

of the certificate obtained at the place of export within such extend 
ed time, not exceeding 180 days, as the Chief Customs OMcer may 
for sumcient reason allow , from the whole of the duty of Customs 
leviable thereon . 

[ No. 71.] 


S . O . 804 . - In excrcise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Custums Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applicd to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government herehy exempts , articles other than 
cinematograph films imported by a Land Customs Station from Portuguese India , 
when the Collector of Land Customs is satisfied that such articles are being 
imported into India for a temporary and specified purpose or period after the 
completion of which they are to be re -exported out of India to Portuguese, India 
or that they are being re - imported into India afler having been originally export 
ed to Portuguese India from India for a temporary purpose or period , from the 
whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon . 

[ No. 72 . ] 


S . O . 805 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts , Cotton seed imported via 
Bombay for experimental purposes on behalf of the Maritime Indian States , when 
certified accordingly by the Secretary , Indian Central Cotton Committee, or by 


Src . 3 ( 11) 1 


940 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28 , 1681 
= - = 

= = = = = 


officers of the respective States enumerated in the second schedule attached to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Education , 
Health and Lands, No. 1213 -Agri ., dated the 27th May , 1930, from the whole of 
the duty of Customs leviable thereon , 

[No. 73 .] 
M . C . DAS, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 


S . O . 806 / IDRA / G / 12 . In pursuance of rule 8 of the Development Councils 
(Procedural ) Rules , 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R . T . 
Mirchandani, Agricultural Marketing Adviser , Directorate of Marketing and 
Inspection , Nagpur, as a member of the Development Council for the scheduled 
industries engaged in the manufacture and production of textiles made of wool, 
including woollen yarn , hosiery , carpets and druggets , in place of Dr. M , B . 
Ghatge, who has resigned, and directs that the following amendment shall be 
made in the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S . R . O . 2820 / IDRA / 6 / 12 , dated the 31st August , 1957, namely : - - 


In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 
persons who, in the opinion of the Central Government have special knowledge 
of matters relating to the technical or other aspects of the said scheduled indus 
tries " for entry No. 14 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 14. Shri R . T . Mirchandani, Agricultural Marketing Adviser , Directorate 
of Marketing and Inspection , Nagpur," 

[No. 4 (59) IA ( II) (G ) / 58.] 


S . O . 807 / IDRA / 6 / 13 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) , 
read with paragraph 1 ( b ) of the Order of the Government of India in thc Minis 
try of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O . 205 , dated the 4th March , 1958, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Raj Kumar Mehrotra , 8 / 78 , Arya Nagar , 
Kanpur, as a member of the Development Council established by the said Order 
for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Soaps , 
Paints and Plastics , and directs that the following amendments shall be made in 
the said Order, namely :-- 


( 1) In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 

persons who, in the opinion of the Central Government are capable 
of representing the interests of persons employed in industrial under 
takings in the said scheduled industries " after entry No. 18 relating 

to Shri J , C . Dixit, the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 

" 18A . Shri Raj Kumar Mehrotra , 8 / 78 , Arya Nagar , Kanpur." 
and ( ii ) Paragraph 1 (b ) shall be omitted . 

[ No. 5 ( 32 )IA (II) (G ) / 57.] 
A . K . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1959 
S . O . 808 . - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the Indian Standards: 
Institution (Certification Marks ) Rulcs 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
the Indian Standards given in the Schedulc hereto annexed have been established during the 
quarter coding 31 March 1959 . 


950 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


BE 


THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- - 


Sl. 
No. 


No. of Indian 

Standard 


Title of Indian Standard 


3 


1 
2 
3 
4 


5 
6 


IS : 226 – 1958 
IS : 505 – 1958 
IS : 707 - 1958 
IS : 8654- 1958 
IS : 910 – 1958 
IS : 911 – 1958 
IS : 912 -- - 1958 
IS : 913 -- 1958 
IS : 914 - - 1958 
IS : 916 – 1958 
IS : 925 – 1958 
IS : 927 – 1958 
IS : 982 — 1959 


6 
9 
10 
II 
12 
13 


14 
IS 
16 
1 


JS : 983 — 1958 
IS : 1057 - 1958 
IS : 1067 — 1958 
IS : 1068 - 1958 


20 


18 IS : 1131 -- 1958 . 

S : T132 
IS : 113. - 1958 
IS : 1134 - 1958 
IS : 1163 - - 1958 
IS : 1164 - 1958 
IS : 1196 - 1958 
IS : 1197 - 1958 

IS : 1198 - 1958 
27 IS : 1201 , 1958 
26 IS : 120 . 1958 


Specification for Structural Steel ( Second Revision ). 
Specification for Cnina -Clay foi Rubber Industry. 

Girssary of TermsApplicable to Timber , Plywood and Joinery . 
, Method for Dicermination of Colour Fostness of Textile Mate . ials to 

Decitizing 
Specification for Combined Key for Hydrant, Hydrant Cover and 

Lower Valve , 
Specification for Braided Air Hose , Heavy Duty , 
Specification for Braided Air Hose , Light Duty. 
Specification for Braided Water Hose , High Pressure , 
Specification fui Braided Water Hose , Low Pressure . 
Specification for 18 - Litre Square Tins. 
Specification for Gommoj Salt for Animal Consumption . 
Specification fo . Fire Hocks . 
Method foi D -termination of Colour Fastness of Textile Materials 

to Carbonising with Aluminium Chloride, 
Method for Determination of Colout Fastness of Textile Materials 

to Alkaline Milling, 
. Spöcification for Commercial M = ric Cirat Weights , 

Specification for Commerci: ) Silver - Plating. 
. Specification for Copper , Nickcl And Churmium Electroplated 

Coatings , 
Specification for Bicycle Buttom Bracket Axlc , 
Specification for Bicyclc Boitom Bracket Adjustable Cup . 
Specification for Bicycle Boltom Bracket Fried Cup. 

Specification for Bicycle Bottoni Bracket locking Nut . 
. Specification for Covering Chocolute . 
. Specification for Cocon - Powder , 

Code of Practice for Laying Mastic Asphalt Flooring . 
. Code of Practice for Laying of Rubber Floors , 
. Code of Practice for Laying and Maintenance of Linoleum Floors . 

Methods for Testing To and Bitumca : Sampling . 
Metliods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Specific 

Grayitv . 
. Methods for Testing Tas And Bitumen : Determination of Penetra 

tion . 
Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Residục 

of Specificd Penetration . 
, Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Softening 

Point , 
. Methods for Tesiing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Visco 

dily . 
. Methods for Testing Tar and Bitume.1 : Determination of Equivis 

cous Temperature (EVT). 
. Methods for Testing Tai and Bitumen : Determination of Ductility 
, Methods for Testing Tus and Bitumen : Determination of Flash 

Point and Fire Point, 
, Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Float Test, 
, Mitho is for Testing Tai and Bitumen : Determination of Water 

Chotent (Dein and Stark Method ). 
Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Loss on 

Heating. 
Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Distillation Test, 
, Methods for Testing Tar and Bitunin : Determination of Watei 

Insoluble in Benzcnc. 
. Methods for Testing Tar And Bitumen : Determination of Matter 

Insoluble in Toluene , 
, Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Deteimination of Solubility 

in Carbon Disulphide, 
. Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Mineral 

Mariei (ASH ). 


20 IS : 1203 - 1958 
30 IS : 1204 – 1958 
31 IS : 1205 – 1958 
32 IS : 1206 – 1958 
32 IS : 1207 -- 1958 


34 IS : 1208 - 1958 
35 IS : 1209 - 1958 


با 
له 


36 IS : 1210 - 1958 
37 IS : 1211 - 1958 


I2124 


39 IS : 1213 - 1958 
40 IS : 1214 – 1958 
41 IS : 1215 — 1958 
42 IS : 1216 – 1958 
43 IS : 1217--- 1958 


SEC. 9 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1979 /CHAITRA 28, 1881 


951 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


44 IS : 1218 - 1958 , Methods for Testing Tor and Bitumen : Determination of Phenols . 
45 IS : 12194 1958 Methods for Testing Ta, and Bitumen : Determination of Neph 

thalene, 
46 IS : 1220 – 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar ord Bitumen : Determination of Volatile 

Martei Content. 
47 IS : 1224 - - 1958 . Determination of Fal in Whole Milk , Evaporated (Unsweciencd ) 

Milk , Separated Milk , Skim Milk , Buliermilk and Cream by the 

Gerber Method . 
48 IS : 1248 — 1958 Specification fi i Electrical indicating instruments , 
49 IS : 1256 - 1958 , Code of Building Byelawa. 
50 18 : 1258 - 1958 Specificalion for Bayonci Lampongers. 
51 IS : 1263 — 1958 . Specification for Cocoa Butter . 
52 IS : 1271 — 1958 Classification of Insulating Materials for Electrical Machinery and 

Apparatus in Relation to their Thermal Stability in Service . 
53 IS : 1272 - 1958 . Specification fur Coal Tar Solvent Naphtha, Light, Grade 2 . 
54 IS : 1273 – 1958 . Specificetion for Leather Pump Buckets Made from Chrome 

Tenncd Leather , 
55 IS : 1276 — 1958 , Specification for Grease S , No. 2 . 
56 IS : 1278 – 1958 Specification for Filler Rods and Wres for Gas Welding, 
57 IS : 1279 - 1957 . Specification for Electrically Welded Mild Steel Boilet and Sup 

crheater Tubes 
58 IS : 1280 – 1958 . Specification for Foundary Moulding Boxes. 


[No. MECJI(2 ).] 
C . N , MODAWAL , Dy. Direct ri Niss) 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Calcutta , the 1st April 1959 
$ . 0 . 809 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 173 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 , read with rule 233 ibid , I hereby order that licensecs 
of private bonded warchouses for un -manufactured tobacco where no processing 
is done shall maintain henceforth warehouse registers in the appended form in 
lieu of Parts I, II and III of W . R .G . 2 ( C . E . Series No . 81) as donc hitherto pro 
vided that such licensees will have the option to maintain records in the statutory 
form if they find it convenient to do so . 

2. This Collectorate Central Excise Notification No. 5 / 1958, dated the 8th . 
April, 1957 is hereby cancelled . 


" VAREHOUSE REGISTER " 
To be Munnt zined by a licensee of a private bonded wirehouse for Urdufactured Tobacco where no processing is done 
Situction of Warehouse . . . . . . . . . . . .Name of Licensee . . . . . .No , and Date of Licence . . . 


- 
952 


receivedor 


RECEIPTS 


ISSUES 


· Baljne in 
| Stock in 
Warehouse 


- 


- 


- 


Y- 


REMARKS 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Nameondaddressoflicenscefromwhom towhomsold(giveL.5No.also) 


|No.anddateoftrünsportpermitorcertificate 

No,anddescriptionofpickiges MirksundNos. Grossweight 


Descriptionoftobicoincludinglocal nilimeofvisiety 


Roomorplaceinwhichdeposited 


Type,numberunddit.ofclearanc: application 


Numberanddateofrelativeruceipt entry 


No.anddescriptionofpackages Murksandnumbers 


Discriptionofrolaccoincludinglocal Dameofvariery 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:APRIL18,1939/CHAITRA28,1881 


- 


- 


- 


------ 
Amount 

- 


SerialNo. 


Netweight |Rateofduty 


Grossweight 


Numberofpackages 


Netweight Roteofduty 


- 


-- 
LossinStorag: GaininStorage 

--- 


- 


|Amount 


Netweight 


Date 


- 


- 


- 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


II 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 19 


20 21 22 


23 


24 


25 


26 


- 


- 


- - - 


NOTI . - ( I) Receipts and issues should be shown on separate lines and the balance struck . 
(2 ) Loss or grid in storage ds ascertained by the licensee at the time of clear ince should be entered in coiumos 22 OD 23 as ibe cize may be . 

[ No . 5 / 1959.) 


[PARTII 


- 


Scc . ? (11 )] THE GAZE I TE OF INDIA : APRIJ, 18 , 1950 / CHAITRA 28 , 1881 9 53 
- - - = 

- - = = = = 
S . O . 810 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rule 5 of Central 
Excise Rulcs , 1944 , I hereby empower the Central Excise Officer , specified below , 
to exercise the powers of Collector under the rule enumerated in column 2 of the 
Table subject to the restrictions set out in column 3 thercof : 

- - - - - - 
Rank of Officer Relevant rule in respect of which 

Restrictions , if any 
power is delegated 

- - - - - - - - - - 
2 

- - - - - 
Asyistunt Co lector 12 --- A 

The power to grunt rebate in rcs 
of Central Excigo 

peut of exports under rule 12 - A 
through the major ports shall be 
exercised by Collector . 
- - - - - - - - 

[No. 6 / 1959 . ] 
S . P . KAMPANI, Collector. 

- - - - - - - - 
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE GOA 

FRONTIER DIVISION , BELGAUM 

NOTICE 

Belgaum , the 4th April 1959 
S . O . 811.. -Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which 
1 . Kamblies 

52 were seized by the S . R . P . party and 
2 . Umbrellas 

36 Customs Matna at a place known as 
3 . Gunny bugs 

il Borkyache Temb in tha vicinity of the 
4 . Bangles 

Indo -Goa Border on 23rd May , 1957 , were 

Bundles about to be exported by land to Goa 
5 . Rice grams, onions, etc . 41 ( Portuguese territories in India ) in contra 

Sccrs vention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land 
0 . Old Utensils 

2 Customs Act, 1924 and the Government of 

India Ministry of Commerce and Indus 
tries Export Control Order No. 1 / 54 dated 10th May , 1954, issued under Section 
- 3 of the Imports and Exports Control Act, 1947 and further deemed to have been 
issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( in respect of items 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 
5 noted in the margin ) . 


- - - 


34 


2 . Now , therefore , any pe , son claiming the goods is hereby called upon 
io show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, 

na Frontier Division , Belgaur why the above mentioned goods should not be 
tonfiscated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the- Land Customs Act , 1924, read with Section 
18718 ) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and the old utensils under Section 168 of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him 
under Section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 re : d with Section 167 ( 3 ) 
un the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 


3 . If such a owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
Foods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government o1 India Gazetic , the goods 
in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided accordingly . 

[No, VIII (b ) 15 -344 /57.] 

E . R . SRIKANTIA . 
Asstt. Collector of Central Excise and Land 

Customs, Goa Fr, Division , Belgaum , 
-- - - - - - - - - - - - 


waswa 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELIII 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 
S . O . 812 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I empower the ollcers of Central Excise Collectorate , 


= - 


= 


- 


954 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28, 1881 (PART II 
= 
Delhi, specified in column 1 of the subjoined table to exercise within their juris 
diction the power of Collector under the Rule shown in column 2 . 

TABLE 


Raak of Officer 


Central Excise Rules 


Limitations if any 


- 


- - 


- 


Superintendents 


2 12 


To direct destruction of confiscated 

tobacoo voto a quantity of 25 
standard maunds, which due to 
its deteriorated condition fails to 
attract bidders to purchase it 
cither on payment of duty or for 
rewarehousing. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


[No. C . V ( a ) 7 / 4CE / 59 ]6364. ] 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Collector , 


MINISTRY OF STEEL MINES AND FUEL 

(Department of Mines and Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
S . O . 813 , — In exercise of the power s conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 
of the Coal Mines ( Conservation and Safety ) Act , 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) , the Central 
Government hereby re -appoints Shri $ . S . Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in 
India , to be a member of the Coal Board with cffect from the forenoon of the 2nd 
April, 1969 . 

[No. C5- 1 (8 ) / 59 .] 
CHHEDI LAL , Dy. Secy . 


( Department of Iron and Steel ) 

New Delhi, the 11th April 1959 
S . O . 814 / ESS. COMM / IRON AND STEEL - 2 ( c )AM (40 ) . - - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel ( Control) 
Order , 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India , in the 
Ministry Oi Steel, Mines and Fuel, No S . R . O . 2041/ ESS .COMM / IRON AND 
STEEL - 2 ( c ) , dated 11th June, 1957 , as amended from time to time, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , in column 2 thereof , against 
PUNJAB , for the existing entry No . 7, the following shall be substituted namely : 


“ 7. Estat- Officer and Sub - Divis.onal Officer 

(Building ) , Capital Project, Chendigarh 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


[No. SC ( A ) - 1 ( 10 ) .] 
J. S . BAIJAL , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
S . O . 815 . — Dr. Chithraputhra Pillai Arumugam Pillai, LDSC , ( Calcutta ) has 
been elected as a member of the Dental Council of India from Madras under 
clausę ( a ) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948) , with effect from 
the 18th March , 1959 . 

[ No. F 6 - 10 / 59 -MI. ) 
R . MURTHI, Under Secy . 


STO. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28, 1881 


955 


- - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

(Deptts. of Commns. & Civil Aylation ) 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
S . O . 816 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraphs 
Rules , 1951, the Central Government hereby specifics the 16th day of April 1959, 
as the date on which message rate system will be introduced at Asansol Telephone 
Exchange . 

[ No. 11- 7/ 59- PHC. 
B . G . DESHMUKH , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 9th April 1959 
$ . o . 817 . — In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the officers specified in column 1 of Table below as the 
officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries and allowances of the 
officers specified in the corresponding cntries in column 2 of the said table shall 
be sent. 


TABLE 


Officer to whom no .1c -s to be sent, 


Offic - rs whose salušics and allowances 

ure diluclied . 


2 


I . Chief Bolin18t , Boiadical Survey 

of India , Clcutta . 
2 . Secretary , C :nipul Board of 

Geophysics , Calcutta . 
3 . Deputy Director, National Atlas 

Organisation , Calcutta . 


Gazetted & Non - gazetiod offic ts of 

the Botanical Survey of India . 
Gazelled @ Non -gaz- tted officers of 

the Central Board of Geophysics. 
Gazetied & Non - gazetted officers of 

the National Atlas Orgunisation. 


[No. F .14 - 79 / 59 - SII.] 
HARI SHANKAR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 
S . O . 818 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of Rule 133 
of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the provisions of 

( i) Rule 118 , proviso ( a ), 
( ii) Rule 119 ( 1 ) ( u ), 

( iii) Rule 123 ( 7 ) 
of the said Rules shall be relaxed in the case of the use of - 

One 44 cu . yd . D . N . Menck Shovel, 3 .3 K . V ., No. 39764 /64, 
One 400 K . V A ., 33 K . V ./ 525 volts, Corbe Lahmayor & Co ., transformer 

serial No, NR653612 
A length of 600 ft. of 4 core, 163 / 0 ·018 sq . inch , cable as per B . S .S . 1118 of 

1956 , 
at the Noamundi Iron ore mine of Messrs Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., to the extent 
that ( i) the working voltage of the said transportable excavating machinę may 
not exceed 3 ,300 volts , ( ii ) the transformer and other associated equipment may 
not be fixed machines while moving from one place to another when installed on 
the transportable Shovel, and ( ii) the length of the flexible cable with the 


956 


THE GA / ETTE OF INDIA . APRIL 18, 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 [1 art II 
- - - --- = - -- - - -- - - - - - 

= 
transportable machine may not exceed 600 ft., and that the relaxation shall be 
subject to the following conditions : 
( 1 ) The 3000 volts supply to the flexible cable should be provided with 

earth - leakage protection , 
( 2 ) The 550 volts supply used in this portable shovel for the different 

drives should also be covered by suitable earth - leakage protection , 
( 3 ) The operators of the shovel should be duly trained and authorised . 
( 4 ) The installations and wirings inside the shovel should comply with 

the relevant provisions of the Indian Electricity Rules , 1956 , in 

particular , Rules 115 to 117 , 120 , 123 to 125 and 130. 
( 5 ) The excavating machine shall be worked with due care so as to avert 

danger arising out of any electrical defect and the insulation resist 
ance of the high voltagc circuit, including the main driving motors 

shall not be less than 10 moghoms, 
( 6 ) The flexible trailing cable for use with the excavating machine shall 

be worked with due care so as to avert any danger arising out of 
it, shall be of adequate size and shall be connected to the electricity 
supply system and the machines by properly constructed connector 

boxes ; 
Provided that the aforesaid relaxation shall be valid only for such time as 
the said machine is in use in the mine and that due information shall be given 
to the Central Government through the Electric Inspector of Mines as soon as 
the machine is taken out of the mine . 

[No. EL . III -3 ( 9 ): 59 .] 
N . S . VASANT, 

Officer on Special Duty . 
- - - - - 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commisgloner) 

New Delhi, the 8th April 1959 
S . O . 819. — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Sul - Section ( 1 ) of Section 6 
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri H , K , Chaudhry for the time being holding the 
post of Regional Settlement Commissioner - cum - Custodian of Evacuec Property 
Bombay as Custodian for the State of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of dis 
charging the duties assigned to such officer by or under the said Act . 

[No. 16 ( 22 ) Admn ( Prop ) / 58 ] 


S . O . 820. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri K . S . Raghavan for the time being hold 
Ing the post of Accounts Officer in the office of the Custodian of Evacuee Pro 
perty, Hyderabad , as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the 
duties assigned to the Custodian by or under the said Act, with effect from the 
date he took charge of his office . 

( No. 16 ( 22 ) Admn . (Prop ) / 59 .] 

M , L , PURI, 
Settlement Commissioner & Er-Officio Under Secy . 

- - - - - 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 
S . O , 821. - In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Emploveos 
Provident Funds Scheme, framed under section 5 of the Employees Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M . V . 
s . Chowdary , B . A . (Hons.) , as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for the 
whole of the State of Madras vice Shri J . Subbuswami, L. A . S ., on leave. Shri M . 
V S . Chowdary shall work under the general control and superintendence of the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner . 

[No . PF - 1 / 31 (582) / 59 .) 


Sec 5 (11)) TITE ( AZEITE OF INDIA : APRILIA 1959 /CHALIRA 28 , 1881 
- - - - 

- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
New Delhi, the 9th April 1959 
S. O . 822. — In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Employees 
Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, framed under Section 5 of the Employees 
Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Mır Masood Ali Khan to be Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for the 
whole o the Stats of Mysort Shri Mir Masood Ali Khan shall work under the 
general control and superintendence of the Central Pinvident Fund Commissioner. 

[ No. PF - I/ 31 ( 584 ) / 59 . ] 


S . O . 823 . In exercise of the power s conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of secti011 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 19 , 2 ) , the Central Govern 
mnent hereby appoints Shri Mir Masood Ali Khan to be ai. Inspector for the whole 
of the State of Mysore tor the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme inade 
thereunder, in relation to an establishment belonging 10 , or under the control of , 
the Central Government or in relation to an establishment connected with a 
railway company , a major port , a mine or an oil -feld or a controlled industry . 

[No. PF - 1/ 31 ( 584 ) 39 ] 


S . O . 824 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri R . R . Kulkarni, Assistant Provident Fund Commission 
er . Bombay , to be an Inspector for the whole of the State of Bombay for the 
purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme made thereunder , in relation to an 
cstablshment belonging to , or under the control of , the Central Government or 
in relation to an establishment connected with a railway compuny a major port , 
a mine or an oil - field or a controlled industry . 

[No. PF - 1 / 31 ( 586 ) / 59 . 1 
New Delhi, the lith April 1959 
S . O , 825 . - In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Employees 
Fiovident Funds Scheme framed under section 5 of the Employees Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Cent al Government hereby appoirts Shri D . R . 
Manchanda as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for the whole of the State 
of Punjab vice Shri H , R . Singh deputed to U . K . for training. Shri Manchanda 
shall work under the general control and superintendence of the Central 
Provident Fund Commissioner . 

(No. PF - 1/ 31( 585 ) 59 . 
S . O . 826 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
15 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment No SO . 1871 dated the 5th September , 1958 the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri D . R . Manchanda , officiating Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner , Punjab , as en Inspector for the whole of the State of Punjab for 
the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation 
to an establishment belonging to , or under the control of the Central Govern 
ment or in relation to an establishment connected with a railway company , it 
major port, a mine or an oil - field or a controlled industry Dice Shri H . R . Singh . 

[No. PF - 1/ 31 ( 585 ) /59. ] 
P . D . GAIHA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th April 1959 
S . O . 827 , — The President is plcased to appoint Shri Laxmi Naruin Ohri as 
Inspector of Mines in the Department of Mines on probation for one year with 
effect from thc 19th March , 1959. 

[No. M - 1- 8 ( 8 )58 ( 1 ).] 
S . O . 828 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Governinent Oreby appoints 
Shri Laxmi Narain Ohri, un officer of the Department of Mines to be an Inspector 
of Mines subordinate to the Chief Insp ( clor. 

[No. M - I- 8 (8 ) / 58 ( ii) ./ 
P . N , SHARMA , Under Secy . 


958 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959/ CHAITRA 28 , 1881 


(Part II 


New Delhi, the oth April 1959 
S . O . 829. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur at Bombay in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd ., Jaipur and their workmen . 
BEFORE SHRI P . D . VYAS , JUDGE, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 
REFERENCE ( CGIT) No . 10 OF 1958. 

AN ADJUDICATION BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Bank of Rajasthan Limited , Jaipur , 

AN ) 
Their Workmen . 

In the matter of an industrial dispute relating to Head Cashier s allowance . 
APPEARANCES ; 

Shri C . K . Garg , Advocate with Shri B . L . Sethi, Regional Manager of the 
Bank - for the Management, 

Shri Dayaldas with Shri R . L . Khandelwal, General Secretary of the Union 
for the workomen . 


AWARD 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of the sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 the Central Government was pleas 
ed to refer an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
the Bank of Rajasthan Limited , Jaipur and their workmen for adjudication under 
the Government Order No. LRII / 10 ( 92 ) /57, dated 7th July , 1958 . The dispute 
relates to the matters specified in the schedule annexed to the said Government 
Order , as subsequently amended by the Government Order, of even number 
dated 8th October , 1958 . 


THE SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether Shri Jamnalal Porwal, Head Cashier of the Bank of Rajasthan 

Lim ted was entitled to Rs. 10 per mensem dy Head Cashier s allow 

ance while working at Bhilwara Office of the Bank ? 
( 2 ) Whether on his transfer to Jaipur from Bhilwara he should have 

continued to get Rs. 10 per mensem as Head - Cashier s allowance ? 
( 3 ) Whether he was entitled to get Rs. 8 Or Rs. 10 or Rs. 20 as Head 

Cashier s allowance ? 


2. On the usual notices being issued , the General Secretary , Rajasthan Bank 
Employees Union has Aled the statement of claims on behalf of the workmen 
and the Regional Manager , Bank of Rajasthan Limited , has filled the written state 
ment on behalf of the Bank . 


3 . The case on behalf of the workmen is that Shri Jamnalal Porwal was 
appointed at the Bhilwara office of the Bank on 15th May , 1951, as Head Cashier 
and he had been working as such at the said office . It was after he made a 
claim for special allowance and overtime allowance in February , 1956 and began 
to work as an active member of the Union that he was transferred to Johari 
Bazar Branch of the Bank at Jaipur. He has been so transferred in order to 
deprive him of the Head Cashier s allowance and thus victimize him for his 
trade union activities He way being shown as Head Cashier in various docu 
ments of the Bank lıke Tills Book , Attendance Register , Salary Sheets , Security 
Bonds etc . and at Bhilwara he used to check the work of other cashiers, report 
on the leave applications of other cashiers and keep keys in his possession . 
Bhilwara office is a treasury branch and there were three cashiers and more than 
5 clerks when he was working as Head Cashier at Bhilwara Branch . Under the 
Bank award a special allowance of Rs, 20 p . m . is payable in case of Cashier - in 
charge of Treasury Puy Offices and Rs. 10 p . m . in the units of 5 clerks and above 
Shri Jamnalal Porwal is , therefore entitled to special allowance of Rs. 20 p . m . 
with effect from 1st April, 1954 The Bank should thus be directed to pay accord 
ingly and to continue to pay him Head Cashier s allowance at the same rate in 
futuro , 


959 


SEC. 3 ( 11 )] THE GAZELLE OF INDIA : APRII , 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28, 1981 


4 . The Bank in its written statement has raised certain preliminary objections 
against the present reference because Shri Jamnalal Porwal has been referred to 
as Head Cashier of the Bank in the terms of reference . The Bank s case is that 
he was at no time the Head Cashier and if it were so found , the present reference 
is bad in law and liable to be rejected . The Bank has further contended that 
the subsequent amendment in item No. 3 of the schedule is incompetent and 
without jurisdiction . In resisting the case of the workmen on merits the Bank 
alleges that Shri Jamnalal Porwal applied for the post of a Cashier in the 
Bhilwara Branch and he was appointed as such on a salary of Rs. 55 p . m . in the 
grades of Rs. 50 - 4 - 70 . He never worked as Head Cashier at Bhilwara Branch nor 
was he given officially any such designation . The documents and books referred 
to in the statement of claims when considered as a whole do not show him as 
Head Cashier or lcad to the conclusion that the Bank accepted him as such . In 
any case this controversy has been set at rest by the order of the General Manager 
dated 27th December, 1957 , whereby he was allowed an allowance of Rs. 8 per 
month by way of concession while he was at Bhilwara . Except in point of fact 
that the keys of the cash of the Bank were being kept by him under the double 
lock system with the Manager , at no time he had any cashier or Clerk working 
under his control. After his transfer to Jaipur he is working as a routine 
Cashier . His transfer took place in the ordinary course of the Management of 
the Bank and in furtherance of the policy of the Bank for implementing the 
Bank Award without causing loss to the employees . A large number of transfers 
were made in or about the same period . In the circumstances the reference 
should be rejected in favour of the Bank together with costs , 


5 . It may be noted that the preliminary objections raised in the Bank s written 
statement have not been pressed or argued at the time of the hearing and in fact 
there is not much substance in the same. The terms of reference do not prevent 
an inquiry as to whether Shri Jamnalal Porwa] was a Head Cashier of the Bank 
of Rajasthan Limited . If he is found to be a Head Cashier , then we have to 
determine the amount payable to him as Head Cashier s allowance under the 
Bank Award while was working at Bhilwara office of the Bank and also to decide 
whether even on his transfer from Bhilwara to Jaipur he should continue to get 
the same amount by way of Head Cashier s allowance. We have therefore first 
to decide whether Shri Jamnalal Porwal was really a Head Cashier of the Bank 
of Rajasthan Ltd . and was working as such at Bhilwara office of the Bank . 


6 . It was on 5th March , 1951, that Shri Porwal applied to the General Manager, 
Bank of Rajasthan , Limited stating that there existed a vacancy of Cashier at 
the Bank s Bhilwara Branch for which post he offered himself as a candidate . 
In stating his qualifications hc mentioned the fact that he had been working as 
Head Cashier in Bharat Bank Limited , Bhilwara since the last five years — -vide 
Ex . C - 4 . On receipt of this application he was served with the appointment letter 
dated 15th May , 1951 ( Ex , C - 5 ) on a pay of Rs. 55 plus the D . A . in the grade of 
Rs. 50 - 4 - 70 . The appointment letter states inter alia that the Bank shall have 
the right to allot any duties to him and shall have the right to transfer him to 
any place where the Bank may necd his services. The order of appointment 
does not state in terms as to whether he was appointed as an ordinary Cashier 
or Head Cashier but there can be no doubt that almost right from the beginning 
in most of the company s records including registers, correspondence etc . he was 
being shown as Head Cashier , This fact receives further support from the higher 
amount of security which he was required to furnish . The amount of security 
in the case Cashiers is Rs. 3 ,000 and for Head Cashiers it is Rs. 5 .000 . It is true 
that the Bank has now in its attempt to show that Shri Jamnalal Porwal was 
working as Cashier produced certain papers. But even the management could 
not deny or overcome the overwhelming effect of the documentary evidance as a 
whole indicating the fact that Shri Porwal was right froni the beginning treated 
as Head Cashier , 


7 . The most important document is the Attendance register where in the 
month of April 1951 the name of Shri Jamnalal Porwal at serial No , 11 appeer 
to have been subsequently added with the designation Cashier, The ink differs 
from that of the other entries and there is no attendance marked with his initials 
as in the case of other employees . As a matter of fact the appointment letter of 
Shri Porwal is dated 15th May, 1951, and is difficult to understand how there 
could occur any such entry in the month of April 1951. In fact from the next 
month onwards, i. e . from May 1951 he on his appointment is being shown in the 
register as Head Cashier . When right from the beginning he is shown as head 
cashier, it is just probable that in vicw of his previous experience as head cashier , 
he was cntrusted with the duties of a head cashier and treated as such . In the 
extract of the salary sheets Ex . ( U - 2 ) he has been shown as Head Cashier and 


980 

THE GAVFU1£ OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CIJAITRA 28 . 1881 PART 11 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
he gave the security bond as per Ex . U - 5 in his capacity as Head Cashier at 
Bhilwara Branch of the Bank on 19th April , 1952. The then Manager of the 
Bank gave a certificate dated 6th April, 1953 ( Ex , U - 6 ) that Shri Porwal worked 
with him as Head Cashier for about two years and that his work was very satis 
factory , The Bank s notification Ex . U - 7 indicates the difference between the 
security to be furnished by the Head Cashier and Assistant Cashiers . It was 
as such that on his transfer to Jaipur Branch of the Bank he handed over the 
charge to his successor as Head Cashier ( Ex . U - 10 ) . 


8 . Shri Porwal has made an affidavit describing his duties as per Ex. U - 11 
and it was argued on behalf of the management that all these duties have not 
been mentioned in the statement of claims filed on behalf of the workmen . 
Ordinarily & workman comes forward with a case that mere designation should 
not count and that in order to determine the wages he is entitled to as belonging 
to a particular category , what has to be seen is the essential nature of the duties 
performed by him . In the present case however, the management has come 
torward with such a plea . In the Arst place we can conceive of a case where a 
man of higher category knowingly or through oversight or mistake being des 
cribed as of lower category , but I have hardly come across a case where the 
management would be so careless or indifferent as to give a higher designation 
to a worker, even though he belongs to and does the work of a lower category . 
The overwhelming evidence on record indicates that Shri Porwal was shown 
right from the time of his appointment as Head Cashier and it hardly lies in 
the mouth of the management to say that though shown as head - Cashier , he 
actually performed the duties of an ordinary cashier . In fact he cannot be placed 
on par with other cashiers, especially when it has not been denied that he was 
in - charge of the cash and entrusted with the keys apart from the other duties 
which he performed . The general supervision of the Branch Manager is bound 
to be there but here is a cashier holding keys and performing responsible duties 
in regard to cash . He did not stand on the same level as other cashiers and the 
cumulative effect of the evidence on record which even the management could 
not withstand is that he was not nierely shown as Head Cashier but he actually 
worked as such . It is true that ordinarily mere designation in the absence of 
standardization of duties may not serve as a correct guide as to the real position 
held by a particular worker . But in the present case the management itself felt 
constrained to set the controversy at rest by the order of the General Manager 
dated 27th December, 1957 - vide Ex. U - 1 under which Shri Porwal way allowed 
the special allowance of Rs. 8 p . m , as Head Cashier at Bhilwara with retrospec 
tive effect from 1st April, 1954 , Not only this but as it appears from the Bank s 
writton statement, even on his transfer to Jaipur the payment of this allowance 
has not been discontinued because of the genuine fear on the part of the Bank 
that it might amount to a demotion . Under all these circumstances there could 
be no doubt that right from the time of his appointment at Bhilwara Shri Porwal 
worked as Head Cashier and was being treated as such . 

9 . We have next to dec .de the quantum of special allowance payable to Shri 
Porwal in his capacity as Head Cashier under paragraph 164 of the Bank award . 
This is a C class Bank and if we refer to the items 3 & 4 , the amounts payable 
would be Rs 10 in case of units of 5 clerks and above and Rs, 8 in case of units 
of 4 clerks and below . In the statement of claims it is alleged that in the 
Bhilwara branch oflice there were thrce cashiers and more than five clerks when 
Shri Porwal was working as Head Cashier . On the point of the strength of the 
staff however he has not much enlightened us in his affidavit. On the contrary 
there is an alldavit of the Branch Manager on behalf of the management which 
indicates that when Shri Porwal was at Bhilwara , there were besides himself two 
other cash . ers from 1651 to October , 1952 and July , 1955 to July 1956 and only 
one other cashier from November, 1952 to June, 1955 In my opinion he would 
be entitled to the special allowance of Rs. 8 only and not Rs. 10 . The worker 
concerned however has not much confined his case to the question as to whether 
Rs 10 or Rs. 8 should be payable to him as special allowance . He has gone 
further and tried to put his case under the item No. 8 in order to claim Rs. 20. 
The item No. 8 in paragraph 164 of the award relates to the " cashiers in charge 
of cash in Treasury pay offices and employees in charge of pay offices or sub 
offices," Obviously this is not a provision specially made for a Head Cashier as 
such , though of course cven if a Head Cashier was incharge of cash in Treasury 
Pay office or was an employee incharge of pay office or sub - office , he would be 
entitled to claim the allowance of Rs. 20 . This new claim on the part of the 
worker concerned seems to be an after - thought and he is entitled to claim no 
such allowance of Rs. 20 in view of the fact that at Bhilwara there is a regular 
branch of the Bank and it is neither a pay - office nor a sub - office . The branch 
may be doing the Government work but that does not make it a pay office . Even 
the workmen s representative could not urge that the Bhilwara branch is a pay 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


— 


SEC . 9 (11) ] THF ( AZETIE ON INDIA : 1PRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 48, 1881 961 

- - - - - - - - - 
office ; and what he urged ly that when such special allowance has been provided 
tor in the case of pay offices , there is no reason why the Head Cashier performing 
similar duties with some responsibilities should not be likewise entitled to similar 
allowance . According to him in the Bank Award the case of such Banks which 
act as bankers to the State Government and run treasury has been overlooked 
and consideration has been given only to pay offices which as is commonly known 
only the State Bank of India has. It may be noted that such pay offices specially 
provided at small places do not perform the functions of a full- fleged branch of 
the Bank and as an ordinary cashier or uny other employee can be placed in 
charge thereof, his remuneration is further supplemented by a higher allowance 
looking to the responsibilities attached to his sole - charge . Moreover the case 
before us is not of an independent adjudication on merits. The workers claim 
is based on the Bank Award and if the Bank Award has chosen to provide for 
such special allowance only in the case of pay offices he has no case to demand 
any such allowance of Rs. 20 . 


10 . In the circumstances stated above we find that Shri Porwal in his capacity 
as Head Cashier at Bhilwara Branch was entitled to the special allowance of 
Rs 8 with effect from 1st April, 1954 under the Bank Award . This fact has 
been recognised by the Bank under its aforesaid order of the General Manager 
dated 27th December, 1957. What the management has, however, done is that 
the payment of this special allowance of Rs. 8 has not been actually made but 
has been adjusted in a l ertain manner . Under the Bank Award the pay scales 
were prescribed for the different categories of workmen and in making adjust 
ment in the new scales no one was to be adverscly affected . The Bank is aware 
of this fact and it las been mentioned in its own written statement that if a 
workman was already receiving a higher amount, then the difference was to be 
treated as temporary adjustment allowance which was to be adjusted against 
future increments according to the recommendations in the Report of the Bank 
Award Commiss . on Solar as this Bank ls concerned , it has not chosen to make 
any such adjustment against the future increments and this temporary adjust 
mont allowance was continued to be paid to its ernployees in the shape of ex 
gratia allowance under the Gene al Manager s order dated 7th February , 1956 . On 
1st April , 1954 Shri Purwal was already getting Rs. 80 plus Rs. 30 as D . A ., i. e ., 
Rs. 110 and in order to carry out the adjustment under the award , the amount 
of Rs 110 as on 1st April, 1954 was made up thus: Rs. 63 basic , Rs. 25 D . A . and 
Rs . 22 temporary adjustment allowance . 


11. Thus Shri Porwal was entitled to get this Rs. 22 for temporary adjustment 
allowance as ex - gratia allowance according to the general practice followed by 
the Bank in the case of all its cmployees. But when the claim of special allow 
ance as Head Cashier was advanced by him which the Bank could hardly deny 
in the circumstances of the casc , what the Bank did was to withdraw this conccs 
sion of ex - gratia allowance and adjust the special Head Cashier s allowance of 
Rs 8 as against the said temporary adjustment allowance of Rs. 22 so as to reduce 
it to Rs. 14 and to show the difference of Rs. 8 as Head Cashier s allowunce . Thus 
what was given with one hand has been taken away by the other keeping in 
tact the same total payment of Rs. 110 . This is entirely a wrong method followed 
by the Bank and according to the recommendations in the Report of the Bank 
Award Commission this temporary adjustment allowance was to bo adjusted 
in a certain manner against the future increments . The Bank has not chosen to 
follow this line in the case of its employees and there is no reason why the Bank 
should depart from its usual practice and discriminate against this worker just 
to defeat his claim of special allowance as Head Cashier , In my opinion the 
Bank ought to pay Rs. 8 as special allowance to Shri Porwal as Head Cashier 
with effect from 1st April, 1954 for the period of his service at Bhilwara irrespec 
tive of and without bringing in the question of the temporary adjustment allow 
ance , 


12. Then the next question is whether he should continue to receive the same 
allowance on his transfer from Bhilwara to Jaipur. He left charge on 27th July , 
1958 on transfer from Bhilwara and joined at Jaipur on 1st August, 1956 . At 
Jaipur he is posted as an ordinary cashier but, as said above , in order to avoid 
the charge of demotion the Bank has continued to pay the special allowance of 
Rs. 8 which he was entitled to as Head Cashier. Thus at present he draws Rs. 90 
as basic , Rs. 8 as special allowance , Rs. 37 . 34 D . A ., 2. e . in all Rs. 135 . 34 . The 
worker s claim is that he should get Rs. 90 as basic plus Rs. 20 as special allow 
Ance and Rs. 41 . 89 as D . A ., i. e ., Rs. 151 . 89 . I have already said that he is not 
entitled to get Rs, 20 and as Head Cashier he is entitled to the special allowance 
of Rs. 8 with effect from 1st April, 1954. If the Bank has made any adjustment 
of this special allowance towards temporary adjustment allowance, it is incorrect 
to do so , in view of the fact that the Bank continued to pay the gald temporary 


962 


- - - 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 / CHAITRA 28, 1881 PART II 

La 
adjustment allowance as ex - gratia allowance to all its workers. So also Shri 
Porwal having right from the beginning worked as Head Cashier and beung treated 
as such , it would not be proper on the part of the Bank to post him as an ordinary 
Cashier on transfer and thus deprive him of the benefit of special allowance pay 
able to him . It is pertinent to note that his transfer has not taken place in the 
normal administrative exigencies of the Bank but we were told that many such 
transfers have been made with a view to carry out the implementation of the 
Bank Award . It was never the intention of the Bank Tribunal that benefits 
admissible to the workers under the award should be adjusted by means of 
transfer . On the point of policy regarding transfer , there is the Chapter XXVIII 
in the Bank Award and the direction in paragraph 536 is that in general the 
policy should be to limit the transfers to the minimum consistent with banking 
needs and efficiency . In paragraph 537 it has been observed ; " Strictly limiting 
the number of transfers will greatly reduce the difficulty of shifting people as 
between higher scale and lower scale areas in the matter of pay and allow 
ances . . . . " In the present case it will be open to the Bank to take duties of a 
Head Cashier from Shri Porwal on his transfer , in which case the amount pay 
able to him in future will depend on as to whether his case falls under item 
No . 3 or No. 4 of the paragraph 164 of the Bank Award . 

13 . In the result I direct that Shri Porwal was entitled to special allowance 
of Rs. 8 as Head Cashier while he was working at Bhilwara office of the Bank 
with effect from 1st April, 1954. On his transfer to Jaipur from Bhilwara the 
amount payable to him will depend on the position of the Jaipur branch as to 
whether his cae falls under the items Nos , 3 or 4 of para 164 of the Bank Award , 
If it is a unit of 5 clerks and above, then he is entitled to Rs. 10 and if it is a unit 
of 4 clerks and below , then he would be entitled to Rs. 8 . At present he is 
posted as an ordinary cashier and it will be open to the Bank to take the work 
from him of a Head Cashier and pay the allowance of Rs. 8 or 10 according as 
his case falls under the items 3 & 4 and until that is done the only direction 
that can be given at this stage is that the Bank should continue to pay him the 
special allowance of Rs. 8 which he was already getting at Bhilwara . 
The 28th March , 1959. 

( Sd. ) P , D . VYAs, Judge , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur at Bombay. 

[No . LRII 10 ( 92 ) 57. 7 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 
S . O , 830 . - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Lloyds Bank Limited , Madras 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri F , Jeejecbhoy , shall be the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Bombay 
and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said industrial tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the discharge of Shri Munian Arumugam by the Lloyds Bank 

Limited , was justified and in order ; and , if not, to what relief he is 
entitled 

[No. LRII-10 (20) / 59. ] 


New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 
S . O . 881, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Laxmi Bank Limited , Head 
Office, Akola and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Sec . 8 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18 , 1959 /CHAITRA 28, 1881 


963 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri F . Jeejeebhoy , Chairman Labour Appellate Tribunal, shall be the Presiding 
Officer , with headquarters at Bombay and refers the said dispute for adjudication 
to the said industrial tribunal, 


SCHEDULE 
1 . Whether the cashiers given power of attorney or similar powers under a 

Resolution of the Board of Directors by the Laxmi Bank Limited, 
Akola , are performing duties of more important nature and under 
taking heavier responsibilities than those performed or undertaken by 

the cashlers of this Bank with no such powers? 
2 . If so , should the cashiers holding the power of attorney or similar powers 

under a Resolution of the Board of Directors, be paid an allowance 
for such duties and responsibilities at a rate higher than the special 
allowance paid to cashiers without such powers ? If so , what should 
be the rate payable to them and from what date ? 

[No. LRII -10 ( 31) /59.) 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi - 2 , the 9th April 1959 1 
S . O . 832 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 4 of 
the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 read with section 3 ( 1 ) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri M . Satyanarayana, M . P ., as a member of the Central Board of Film Censors 
with immediate effect. 


[No. F . 11 /6 / 59 -FC .) 
D . R , KHANNA, Under Secy . 


- 


U 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1959 


