
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above wil] be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettea. 


( 3765 ) 






. 


II- «J ; 


A ^ 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 5th September 1904 

REPORT OF THE CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

For the year July 1, 1963 — June 30, 1961 

8.0. 3319. — In accordance with section 53(2) of the Reserve Bank of India Act 
1934, the Central Board of Directors has submitted to the Government of India the 
following report on the working and accounts of the Bank for the year ended June 
30, 1964. 


I— MAJOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS 

The economic developments during the year July 1963 to June 1964 can ilpf 
viewed as in the nature of an aftermath to the Emergency which had dominate!? 
events in the preceding year. The Emergency generated pressures on the 
economy which were superimposed on those arising from the developmental 
programmes, With the passage of time, these pressures have increased and, more 
recently, the economy has had to meet substantial expenditures on relief and 
rehabilitation of refugees. In the result, the overall economic situation which 
was already a difficult one has become even more so. 

2. There has been a rapid expansion in liquidity in the economy stemming 
from the large magnitude of total bank credit extended not only to the Govern- 
ment sector out also to the private sector whose requirements of bank finance 
have Increased rapidly. The seasonal expansion in scheduled bank credit during 
the busy season of 1963-64 touched an all-time peak. Another striking fealure 
of the monetary situation was the increase In money supply during the slack 
season of 1963 when normally the supply of money contracts. Equally noteworthy 
is the faster rate of expansion in deposit money witnessed during the year under 
Teview, which accounted for nearly one-half of the increase in money supply. 

3. The inflationary pressures emanating for the greater liquidity were 
accentuated by the virtual stagnation in agricultural output. It is significant 
that the resulting gap between aggregate demand and aggregate supply persists, 
despite the unprecedented taxation measures contained in the previous year’s 
budget and the other corrective measures that were taken since then. 'There 
has been a strong and persistent increase in wholesale commodity prices which 
has also been transmitted to the cost of living. The increase in the index of 
wholesale prices during the year was larger than in any previous year, except 
1953-56, since the commencement of the Five-Year Plans in 1951. The major 
components of the increase were in the prices of commodities of agricultural 
origin, such as foodgrains, oilseeds and vegetable oils, sugar, gur, etc. The 
magnitude of the recent increase in prices associated with the failure of the 
post-harvest decline In prices to wipe out the increase in the preceding lean 
period has imposed considerable hardship on sections of the community. 

4. In contrast to the commodity markets, the capital markets have been in 
a state of quiescence still show the bearishness which first set in in the wake of 
the Emergency. While there has been a rise in industrial production, its rate 
of growth is still below the target of the Third Plan. 

5. In the external sector of the economy, despite a relatively better perform- 
ance of exports and improved utilisation of external assistance, there was pressure 
on the foreign exchange position. Thus, there is still a considerable leeway to 
be made up in regard to exports, if dependence on foreign assistance is to be 
significantly reduced in the near future. 



■UC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3767 


The Price Situation 

6. The genera] level of prices showed a significant rise during the year (July 
1963-June 1964) mainly on account of agricultural commodities, and except for 
a small short-lived seasonal decline during September to November 1963, it 
moved up continuosly, the upsurge being pronounced in the second half of the 
year. Over the year, the rise in prices (9-4 per cent) was double than that in the 
previous year. The deterioration in commodity prices which was marked in 
articles of mass consumption, was also reflected In the All-India Consumer Price 
Index for working class (base : 1949=100) which rose continuously from 134 in 
June 1963 to 150 in June 1964, and affected all centres. The seriousness of the 
price situation is emphasised by the rise of 11'9 per cent in the consumer price 
index, as against a rise of only 3T per cent in 1962-63. 

7. Among the constituent groups, the most significant rise was in food articles 
(13-3 per cent) followed by industrial raw materials (1T4 per cent). Moreover, 
the price increase was all pervasive among food articles, covering all the major 
cereals and pulses. The rise in prices is largely due to the setback in agricultural 
production which is reflected in the decline of 3'3 per cent in the index (1949- 
50—100) during 1902-63 to 136-3 from the level of 141-4 attended in 1961-02. 
The shortfall in production affected foodgrains and all commercial crops, except 
cotton, coffee, rubber and tobacco. There has been virtual stagnation in food- 
grains production around the level of 81 million tonnes in the past three years, 
although the production of rice during 1963-64 has been larger than in the 
previous years, The problem of shortages in foodgrains appears to have been 
aggravated by the restrictions on inter-State movement and the present system 
of compulsory levy together with the increase in the holding capacity of the big 
.farmers and speculative activity by the trade. The delays in unloading food- 
grains at the docks also contributed to the rise in prices. The shortfall in 
agricultural production relatively to the requirements of the economy in con- 
junction with the abovementioned factors has created a psychology of scarcity, 
raising prices beyond the level justified by the basic supply and demand position. 
Compared with the rise in prices of agricultural commodities, the rise in prices 
of manufactured products was modest (at 2’5'per cent), 

8. Industrial output expanded at a faster rate (9-1 per cent) during the 
financial year 1963-64 than in the preceding two years (7-9 per cent in 1902-03 
and 6-4 per cent in 1901-62.) However, the rate is still below the Third Plan’s 
annual target of 11 per cent. On the other hand, there are some significant 
features of industrial production which are indicative of the successful results 
of the strategy of investment pursued in the past few years. The output of 
basic Industries increased at a faster rate than that of many of the consumer 
goods. The overcoming of bottlenecks in the supply of coal, power and trans- 
port enabled industries like jute textiles and iron and steel to achieve full capacity 
output. However, despite the overall increases in the output of commodities, 
■certain essential industrial raw materials are still in short supply. 

9. The future prospects of industrial production will depend both on the avail- 
ability of foreign exchange and fresh investment as well as maintenance imports and 
the success achieved in preventing bottlenecks from arising in strategic sectors, 
such as in power and transport. The position in regard to financial resources 
for new investment is somewhat indeterminate. The cost structure of industry 
has already been raised by the increases in prices of raw material inputs, 
stemming from price increases granted by -way of incentives to producers and 
increases in indirect taxation, and, to the extent they are linked to costs of living, 
by the Increases in wages. Bids for further increases in wages by organised 
labour, if successful, are likely to aggravate the problem of industrial costs. 
A co-ordinated wage and incomes policy geared to productivity remains a vital 
desideratum. 

10. It is against this background that the more salient features of price policy 
may be briefly reviewed. Although official action was constantly focussed on 
holding down the prices of essential articles of mass consumption through a 
variety of measures, such as increased imports, larger internal procurement of 
foodgrains as well as their distribution through a wide net- work o_" fair price 
shops and co-operative stores, the all-round co-operation to hold the price line, 
which looked so assured in the critical months after the Emergency, was not 
much in evidence subsequently. Steps were also taken to exercise a stricter 
control over private trade through measures, such as the introduction of Food- 
grains Dealers’ Licensing Orders, so as to restrict the ability of the traders to 
exploit the situation of marginal shortages. In March 1964, the Government 
announced its programme which envisaged, among others, fixation of maximum 



3768 TI,E GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 19G4/BHADRA 28, 1880 [Part II- 


prlces of foodgrains, effective regulation of wholesale trade and tightening of 
selective credit controls, The zonal arrangements in respect of wheat, which were 
abolished in April 1901, were reintroduced in a modified from in March 1964. 
Among the important decisions bearing on price policy following the Chief 
Ministers’ Conference in June IE-64, mention may be made of the removal of 
restrictions on the movement of rice from surplus to deficit States and of coarse 
grains throughout the country and the decision to establish a Foodgrains Trading 
Corporation and to reduce the Central Government’s expenditure by about 
Rs. 70 crores. In order to check a speculative rise in prices, forward trading 
in 14 agricultural commodities including groundnut and groundnut oil was 
banned from June 1964. The selective credit controls in respect of advances 
against paddy and rice and groundnut were tightened and those against wheat 
were reimposed. 

11. On the other hand, the sluggishness of output necessitated upward revisions 
in the procurement prices of rice and wheat and in the minimum prices of sugar- 
cane, Likewise, price increases were also announced in certain non-agricultural 
controlled commodities like coal, with a view to meeting the increase in costs 
and to stimulate production, Price and distribution controls which were found 
to be inhibiting the production of certain commodities were withdrawn, among 
which were rayon yarn, staple fibre, certain chemicals, tyres and tubes, caustic 
soda, certain types of steel and steel products, etc. Thus, the year witnessed 
a greater Government control over prices and distribution of certain agricultural 
commodities as also relaxation and abolition of controls over certain other - 
products. Inspite of these measures, the price level remains a highly disturbing 
factor in the economy. 

The Public Sector 

12. The Government budget is an important instrument of stabilisation in 
an economy where the efficacy of monetary policy is limited by structural factors 
like the predominance of currency. In an inflationary context this necessitates 
a budgetary surplus. Notwithstanding a substantial stepping up of a taxation 
at the Centrre and in the States from 1960-61 (April-March) onwards, the 
budgetary position especially of the States has deteriorated. According to the 
re-vised estimates for 1963-64 (April-March), the overall budgetary deficit of the 
Centre was smaller at Rs. 78 crores as compared with Rs. 182 crores originally 
anticipated for that year, But this does not take into account ad hoc Treasury 
bills of Rs. 75 crores funded in January 1 £ 64, and if account is taken of this 
funding operation the overall deficit would work out to Rs. 153 crores which is 
slightly smaller than in 1962-63 viz., K's. 168 crores. This has happened owing 
to the marked buoyancy in tax receipts and a fall in expenditure on revenue 
account. The overall deficit of the Centre during 1904-65 (B.E,) is estimated 
to be of the order of Rs. 86 crores. The overall budgteary position of the States 
worsened from a surplus of Rs. 37 crores in 1962-63 (Accounts) to a deficit of 
Rs. 18 crores in 1963-04 (R.E.), mainly on account of larger repayments of loans 
to the Centre and larger provision for development expenditure and debt services. 
Additional taxation at the Centre in the first three years of the Third Plan is 
estimated to yield about Rs, 1,900 crores over the entire Plan period, thus exceed- 
ing the five-year target of the Plan (Rs, 1,100 crores). The tax proposals for 
1964-65 are expected to yield an additional Rs. 40 crores in the current year, 
made up of Rs, 15 crores under direct taxes — mainly amendments to corporate 
taxation — and Rs. 25 crores under indirect taxation. For the States, the five- 
year target of additional taxation in the Plan was fixed at Rs. 610 crores. 
Measures taken by the States in the first three years would yield over the Plan 
period an aggregate revenue of about Rs. 460 crores. During 1964-05, an amount 
of Rs. 7 crores is estimated from additional taxation. Additional taxation during 
1964-05 (B.E.) is expected to raise the ratio of Central and States’ tax revenue 
to national income from 9-6 per cent at the end of Second Plan to 14 per cent. 

13. The tax proposals for the year 1964-65 have kept in view the twin roles 
of taxation as an instrument of social justice and as a means of stimulating pro- 
duction and growth. In the context of the pressures on the cost of living, the 
proposals avoid any material increase in indirect taxes. Income-tax and other 
direct taxes have been remodelled to maintain individual incentives consistently 
with the objective of reducing inequalities of wealth. The reintroduction of 
expenditure tax is to be viewed more as a part of the comprehensive personal 
taxation rather than as a revenue expedient. While the new tax measures may 
at best soften the impact of high levels of expenditure, the tax potential of the 
agricultural sector is still inadequately tapped. This has to be viewed from the 
angle not only of fiscal equity but also of the efficacy of the tax instrument in 
raising resources from all the strata of the economy. 



Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 26, 1888 3769 


14. The position in regard to the mobilisation of resources for the public 
sector through loans is somewhat of a mixed character inasmuch as, despite the 
subdued response to market loans, there was an exceptional outturn in small 
savings, There was a fall of Rs. 29 crores in the net market borrowings by the 
Centre and the States which amounted to Rs. 155 crores, as against Rs. 183 crores 
in the 1H62-63 financial year. Lower response to the new issues accounted for a 
deterioration of Rs. 15 crores, the remaining change being accounted for by the 
discontinuance of the 4A per cent National Defence Bonds 1972 (November 10, 
1962 to April 29, 1963) and the 6i per cent Gold Bonds (November 12, 1162 to 
February 28, 1963). Despite the none too favourable response to the new loans, 
the gilt-edged market remained' firm and a number of short and medium-dated 
issues recorded handsome gains. 

15. The decision to float combined Central and State market loans was review- 
ed at the Finance Ministers’ Conference in November 1963. It was felt that, apart 
from the difficulty of allocating shares to States, centralised borrowing did not 
offer sufficient scope to State Governments to mobilise the resources that can be 
available to them, and hence it was decided that from the financial year 1964-65 
the States should float their own market loans, Consequently, the Union budget 
'assumed credit for Rs. 295 crores under gross market loans, while eleven States 
(excluding Jammu and Kashmir, Maharashtra, Orissa and the Punjab) have 
taken credit for market loans aggregating Rs. 79 crores. The net borrowings 
of the Union Government for 1964-65 will amount to Rs. 103 crores. The 
Union Government entered the market on April 15, 1964 with an offer to 
holders of two maturing loans viz., 3 1/2 per cent National Plan Loan 1964 and 
the 3 per cent Loan 1964 for conversion into (1) the 4 per cent Loan 1970 at an 
jissue price of Rs. 99 and carrying a redemption yield of 4T9 per cent and (2) 
the 44 per cent Loan 1989 to be issued at par. The total amount of maturing 
loans tendered was approximately Rs. 142 crores as against outstandings of Rs. 
189 crores, the balance of about Rs. 47 crores was repaid in cash. On July 3, 
1964, the Central Government announced a second instalment of its borrowing 
programme for 1964-65, comprising a further tranche of the 4 per cent Loan 
1970 at Rs. 99 and the 4 3/4 per cent Loan 1989 at par, for a sum of Rs. 150 crores. 
The total subscriptions amounted to Rs. 151 crores and brought gross market 
borrowings during the financial year 1964-65 to Rs. 293 crores. 

16. Net collections from small savings during the financial year 1963-64 reached 
an all-time record of Rs. 132 crores, t showing an increase of Rs. 57 crores over the 
previous financial year, thus reversing the declining trend witnessed during the 
first two years of the Third Plan (net collections had fallen from Rs. 106 crores 
In 1960-61 to Rs. 87 crores in 1961-62 and to Rs. 75 crores in 1962-63). The 
spectacular rise in small savings during 1963-64 may be attributed to a combination 
of factors like the raising of rates of interest and the relaxation of upper limits of 
holdings as also the various other promotional measures adopted In the past two 
years. For the year 1964-05, Centre’s budget assumes a credit of Rs. 125 crores 
under small savings. In addition, the annuity deposit scheme, which operates at 
income levels above Rs. 15,000 per annum, is estimated to yield Rs. 07 crores, 

The Private Sector 

17. The flow of resources to the private sector from the open market remained 
restricted during 1 903-64 (July-June), with the result that reliance was increas- 
ingly placed on the existing financial institutions for loan assistance as well as 
for underwriting support. Although there was a distinct improvement in new 
Jissue activity (during the pre-budget months (October 1963 — February 1964), 
induced by a moderate recovery in the stock markets on expectation of reliefs in 
the 1964-65 budget, investor confidence did not show any significant revival and 
the response to new issues was, by and large, unsatisfactory. The stock market’s 
adverse reaction to the 1964-65 budget proposals and the renewed downtrend 
in share prices since March again adversely affected new issues. These develop- 
ments reflect the sluggishness of the share market ; despite the slight improve- 
ment of 3-7 per cent in share prices over the year in contrast to the fall of 14-2 
per cent in the preceding year. 

18. The magnitude of consents by the Controller of Capital Issues, which 
broadly indicate investment intentions, amounted to Rs. 138 crores during 1963- 
64 (July-June), which was about the same as in 1962-63 (after excluding the 
Rs. 30 crores debenture issue of Oil India Ltd.— an undertaking jointly owned 
by the Government of India and a private sector company). A significant 
feature was the decline in the consents for equity issues, accompanied by an 
increase for preference shares, reflecting a shift in investor preference for fixed 
yield securities. The available data on new issues also revealed a more or leaa 
similar trend. 


t Inclusive of accrued interest on postofflee savings bank deposite. 



3770 THE. GAZETTE OF mviA : SEPTEMBER Iff, 1WW/BHADRA 28. 1886 [Part tt- 


19. During the year, certain steps were taken to revive the capital market. 
The exemption limit for capital issues as well as industrial licensing was raised 
(from Rs. 10 lakhs to Rs. 25 lakhs, The resources of the term lending financial 
institutions, such as the Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial 
Credit and Investment Corporation of India and the Refinance Corporation for 
Industry were also augmented, Further, the Government took two important 
steps in broadening the capital market through the establishment of the Unit 
Trust of India from February 1, 19G4 and the Industrial Development Bank of 
India from July 1, 1904. Besides, some fiscal reliefs were given to the corporate 
sector in the 1904-05 budget. 

20. As in the preceding year, the shortfall in market resources for the private 
sector was made up by the substantial increase in finance from the various term 
lending institutions and the Refinance Corporation for Industry, Loans sanction- 
ed by these institution* amounted to Rs. 70 crores in the financial year 1903-04 
as against Rs. 54 crores in 1962-03, an increase of 30 per cent. Disbursements 
stood higher at Rs. 41 crores as compared to Rs. 37 crores in 1962-63, through 
the ratio of disbursements to sanctions declined from 69 per cent to 58 per cent. 
Loans sanctioned by the Refinance Corporation for Industry (Rs, 23 crores) were 
nearly twice as much as in the previous year. A notable feature was that the 
financial institutions devoted special attention to new Industries, while continu- 
ing to help traditional industries, and rendered valuable assistance to new issues, 
The amount of new issues underwritten by the Life Insurance Corporation of 
India during the fifteen-month period ended March 1963 showed a more than 
two-fold increase compared to the year ended December 1961. The Corporation’s 
investments in shares and debentures of joint stock companies in India out of its 
total investments pertaining to the life business rose from Rs. 103 crores in 
December 1961 to Rs. 125 crores in March 1963. The proportion of such invest- 
ments to total investments also advanced from 17-6 per cent to 18-4 per cent 
over the same period. 

Monetary and Credit Policy 

21. The earlier paragraphs of this Report on the problem of rising prices 
focussed attention on the scarcity of consumer and other basic goods as well as 
on the widening of the gap between aggregate demand and aggregate supply. 
Viewed from the purely monetary angle, an important factor contributing to the 
deterioration in prices was the rapid increase in liquidity, which outstripped 
the sluggish growth of output in the economy. Money supply, which represents 
the monetary demand in the economy, expanded by Rs. 447 crores (or by 13-3 
per cent) during the accounting year 1963-64 as against Rs. 310 crores (or 10-2 
per cent) during the previous year. A part of the increase under deposit money 
resulted from a change in classification by certain banks of savings deposits 
from time to demand deposits; even after allowing for this shift in deposits the 
growth rote in monetary creation would he higher than in the previous year. 

22. The faster rate of growth in money supply was mainly induced by the 
more rapid credit creation by the hanking system for private trade and industry. 
Governmental indebtedness to the banking system, comprising investments in 
Government securities by the Reserve Bank and other banks (excluding the 
investments of P.L. 480 and P.L. 665 funds) and ways and means advances adjusted 
for Government’s cash balances with the Bank continued, as in the preceding two 
years, to be the dominant expansionary factor, although its impact was smaller 
(Rs. 281 crores) than in 1962-63 (Rs. 316 crores). and in 1961-02 (Rs. 327 crores). 
Net bank credit to the private sector, comprising both banks’ advances and hold- 
ings of private securities adjusted for time deposits (excluding P.L. 480 and 
P.L. 605 funds), had a substantially larger expansionary effect on money supply 
in 1963-64 (Rs. 183 crores) than in 1962-63 (Rs. 72 crores). Government’s net 
currency liabilities to the public were also greater by Rs. 17 crores as compared 
to Rs. 11 crores in the previous year. The balance of payments position, as 
measured by changes in the Reserve Bank’s net foreign exchange assets, which 
had an expansionary impact (Rs. 7 crores) in the previous year, had a nominal 
contractionary effect (Rs. 1 crore) on the money supply in the current year. The 
combined effect of the foregoing factors was partially offset by a rise of Rs. 33 
crores in net non-monetary liabilities of the banking sector (including the Reserve 
Bank) as compared to Rs. 96 crores in the previous year. A notable feature of 
the trends in money supply was a contra-seasononal expansion of Rs. 30 crores 
in the 1963 slack season as against a contraction of Rs. 03 crores in 1962 slack 
season. The expansion in money supply during the 1963-04 busy season was 
Rs. 407 crores as compared to Rs, 362 crores in the 1902-63 busy season. 


‘Comprising the Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Credit 
and Investment Corporation of India, the State Financial Colorations and the 
National Industrial Development Corporation; loans of the I.C.I.C.I. relate to the 
calendar year, 1903. 



377i 


Sir 3<ii)] 1'HE GAZETTE OT INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, I9G4/BHADRA 28, 1886 


23. An unusually large credit contraction (Rs. 121 erores) in the 1963 slack 
season was followed by an unprecedented expansion (Rs. 376 erores) in the 1963- 
64 busy season. In the 1963 slack season, the contraction in advances against 
seasonal commodities was larger than the previous seasonal expansion recorded 
by them; advances against non-seasonal commodities, which had shown a 
secular rise, also increased at a markedly slower pace than In the previous slack 
season. This was a reflection of a rapid depletion of stocks with industry and 
trade, especially in sugar and textiles, but it may also have been induced by 
some slackening in the rate of industrial growth and in investment activity. The 
pace of deposit expansion was at the same time faster than in the previous slack 
season, due in no small measure to the continuing budgetary deficit in the period. 
This, together with the unusually large credit contraction, brought down the 
credit-deposit ratio over the slack season from 78-6 per cent to 07-4 per cent 
and enabled the banks to build up their liquidity position by strengthening 
their portfolio of Government securities and augmenting cash reserves. 


24. This rapid credit contraction focussed attention on the need to give a 
fillip to productive activity. Coupled with the anticipated larger requirements of 
crop finance, it underlined the need for some relaxation in credit policy. 
Accordingly, on October 30, 1963, the Reserve Bank modified its system of lend- 
ing rates and borrowing quotas to enable banks to satisfy all credit demands 
for productive purposes. The normal quota for borrowings by scheduled banks, 
both against bills and Government securities, was raised from 100 to 150 per 
cent of their average statutory reserves. Banks could borrow half this quota 
(i.e. 75 per cent of the average statutory reserves as against 50 per cent till then) 
at the Bank rate, viz., 4-1/2 per cent, and the other half at 6 per cent' Borrow- 
ing beyond this limit (i.e. in excess of 150 per cent of banks’ stautory reserves) 
was to be in the nature of special accommodation to be granted by the Bank, 
after an overall assessment of the borrowing bank’s position, at a rate of 6 per 
cent as against 6-1/2 per cent till then. 

25, In the busy season that followed, credit expansion attained record 
dimensions, the main underlying factors being a larger credit demand for market- 
ing of crops, especially commercial crops like cotton, raw jute and groundnuts, 
the higher level of prices and the higher tempo of industrial activity. As 
compared to the previous busy season, there were larger Increases in seasonal 
and non-seasonal as well as unsecured advances, thougn their respective shares 
in the total varied, Seasonal credit accounted for somewhat over half the 
expansion in the 1963-64 busy season as against over two- thirds in the 1962-03 
busy season. Among seasonal advances, the rise in advances against sugar and 
gur and raw cotton, and among non-seasonal advances that against manufactures 
and minerals was more pronounced. The increase in advances against shares. 
Government and other trustee securities, assets of industrial concerns and real 
estate was also appreciably larger. The expansion of deposits in the 1963-04 busy 
season (Rs. 110 erores), though somewhat larger than in the previous busy 
season, was barely sufficient to meet one-third of the increased credit demands, 
the credit-deposit ratio (excluding P.L. 480 and 665 funds) reaching a peak of 
81-4 per cent on May 8, 1904. Banks, therefore, ran down considerably both 
their cash reserves and their gilt-edged holdings, entailing great strain on their 
liquidity and necessitating resort to the Reserve Bank in a substantial measure ; 
their borrowings reached an all-time high of Rs. 107 erores in March 1904 as 
against Rs. 83 erores in the previous busy season. The money market also grew 
progressively stringent, with the intcr-bank call rate reaching a peak of 6-5 per 
cent in March 1964, both in Bombay and Calcutta. 


26. The supply position of agricultural commodities which seemed good at 
the commencement of the marketing season, turned less favourable as the 
season advanced; at the same time, there was renewed pressure on commodity 
prices. In view of this as well as the rapid expansion in bank credit financed 
by increased recourse to the Reserve Bank, the Bank reduced on March 11, 1964 
the borrowing quotas and lending rates to levels prevailing before the end of 
October 1963. Banks were permitted to borrow a sum equal to 50 per cent of 
the statutory reserves at the Bank rate of 4-1/2 per cent and the remaining 
50 per cent at 6 per cent; any borrowing beyond this limit was to be in the nature 
of special accommodation, calling for a careful assessment of a bank’s overall 
position and was to be charged a higher rate of 6-1/2 per cent. In view of the 
sharp increase in clean advances, which had risen by 30 per cent in the year 
ended February 1964, banks were requested to review their portfolio of clean 
advances and bring down such advances. 



3772 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II— 


27 Over the year as a whole, bank credit rose by Rs. 246 crores to a level 
which was about 16 per cent higher than a year before. The higher level of 
economic activity as well as the rise in prices partly accounted for the highe 
level of bank credit. The increase in cash reserves and the gilt-edged portfolio 
of banks was much smaller than in 1 962-6.3. Deposits rose day Rs. ~76 crores. 
This was, no doubt, a faster rate than witnessed in the previous year; even so 
the larger credit demands placed the banks in a tighter resources Porhjon 
and highlighted in general the inadequacy of deposit growth in relation to tne 

continuously increasing credit demands of the economy. The inadequacy o 

deposit growth assumes added significance when set against the enhanced 
liquidity requirements that will come into force from mid-September 1. 04, in 
this context, the role of interest rates in the process of deposit mobilisation by 
banks and the need for introducing greater orderliness m the rate structure 
requires further consideration. 


28. As regards selective credit controls, the main developments were the (i) 
relaxation of the control on advances against shares, f ii) tightening up of the 
control on advances against paddy and rice and groundnuts and (lii) reim- 
position of the control on advances against wheat. The last two measures were 
taken in the face of shortages of supplies in relation to demand and the pre- 
vailing higher level of prices of the commodities concerned. The minimum 
margin of 40 per cent in respect of advances against shares was removed in 
October 1963, mainly with a view to revitalising the capital market, The mam 
feature of the revised directive In regard to paddy and rice issued In February 
,1964 was the fixation of the overall ceiling as well as the secondary celling in 
respect of non-warehouse advances at 90 per cent of the level of such advances 
maintained in 1962. In groundnut, the Bank increased in March 1964 the mini- 
mum margin on advances from 45 to 50 per cent and also reimposed the ceil- 
ings on such advances which had lapsed at the end of February 1963, the limits 
so fixed being 130 per cent of the actual level of such advances maintained in 
the corresponding months of 1963 for the two-month period March-April 1964 
and 120 per cent for each subsequent two-month period. In wheat, the control 
on advances which had been withdrawn in May 1961 was reinstituted in April 
1964. Banks were required to maintain a minimum margin of 35 per cent 
125 per cent for advances against warehouse receipts), while the ceiling limit 
for each two-month period beginning from May-June 1964 was fixed at 80 per 
cent of the levels maintained in the corresponding two-month period in 196Z. 


29. The experience of selective credit controls shows that, while they have 
had salutary effects in regulating bank credit for the commodities concerned, 
equally, they have their limitations especially in an environment of overall 
monetary expansion, which makes it possible for operators to resort to non- 
banking sources of finance. This underlines the necessity of maintaining har- 
mony between monetary policy and fiscal policy. Thus, while credit policy, 
in its long-term aspect continued basically to be attuned to the needs of develop- 
ment, with preferential treatment to special sectors like small-scale industries, 
co-operatives and exports, in the short-term, adjustments in the cost and avail- 
ability of credit were made to suit the needs of the emerging situation. The 
Impact of credit policy on the price line is conditioned by the availability and 
cost of alternative sources of finance for boarding operations. In this context, 
the impact of fiscal operations on the over-all monetary expansion has to be 
borne m mind, especially in a period of large outlays on defence and develop- 
ment. It is necessary, therefore, to ensure that both the fiscal and monetary 
policies act In such a way as not to add to the pressure of aggregate monetary 
demand and thereby aggravate the imbalance between overall demand and 
supply. Further, since short-term adjustments in credit policy on the price 
situation rely on the amount and quality of information available 
regarding such factors as the outturn of crops, the supplies coming on 
to the markets, the trends in industrial production and so on improvements in 
the present situation in regard to the availability, coverage and accuracy of such 
information should help to enhance the effectiveness of such policy. 


External Position of the Economy 

30, As in the past, the availability of foreign exchange continued to be a 
severe constraint on the development programme, despite an encouraging per- 
formance in exports and a sizeable inflow of external assistance. The foreign 
exchange reserves which had risen by Rs, 48 crores in l°62-63 (July-June), fell 
by Rs. 10 crores in 1963-04 to Rs. 279 crores at end- June 1964, The draft on th* 



^c. 3fii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19. 1964/BH ADRA 28 . 1889 3773 

foreign exchange reserves during the year is mainly attributable to the repay- 
ment 'of Rs 24 crores of the outstanding indebtedness to the International Mone- 
tary Fund, 'which together with the enhanced payments for imports more than 
offset the considerable increase in receipts under exports and foreign aid. 


31. India's external payments position, on the basis of the data for the 
financial year 1983-64 (the latest lull year for which balance of payments data 
are available), showed an improvement as compared to 1962-63, inasmuch as 
(reserves rose by Rs. 11 crores as against a fall of Rs. 2 crores in the previous 
financial year. Excluding transactions with the International Monetary Fund 
(viz., the borrowing of Rs. 12 crores in 1962-63 and repayment of Rs. 24 crores 
In 1963-64), the reserves would show a rise of Rs. 35 crores in 1963-64 and a fall 
of Rs. 14 crores in 1962-63. This improvement of Rs. 49 crores between the 
two years was the result of improved export earnings, a favourable turn on the 
invisible account and larger receipts under official loans. 


32. The deficit on current account narrowed down from Rs. 345 crores in 
1962-63 to Rs. 335 crores in 1963-64 as a result of a record expansion in export 
earnings and an improvement in invisibles. Exports increased during the year 
by Rs. 119 crores, but the import bill also rose by Rs. 139 crores, so that the 
trade gap widened by 20 crores to Rs. 429 crores. The deterioration in the trade 
account was more than offset by an improvement on the invisible account. Official 
donation receipts rose by Rs. 2 crores to Rs. 79 crores, while under ‘other invisibles’ 
there was a net receipt of Rs, 15 crores as against a net payment o( Rs, 13 crores 
in 1962-63. 

33. The most heartening development in the balance of payments field during 
the financial year 1963-64 was the substantial rise in exports which touched a 
level of Rs- 802 crores. This was largely due to the generally buoyant condi- 
tions which prevailed in the world economy, world trade in 1963 registering a 
growth rate of about 8 per cent. Almost all commodities, except manganese ore 
and raw hides and skins, recorded increases during the year with' sugar, jute 
goods and cotton manufactures accounting for more than one-third of the total 
increase. Although exports of items which were covered by special promotional 
measures did show a rise, it is even more gratifying to note that about two-thirds 
of the expansion in exports was effected without any special assistance. While 
most of the export incentive schemes were continued, greater emphasis was placed 
in respect of export policy on fiscal and such other measures as would directly 
help in cost reduction, better utilisation of capacity, quality control, etc. Among 
these may be mentioned the abolition of export duties on soft cotton waste, lac 
and raw jute cuttings and the concession on railway freight to an additional 65 
engineering items as also the extension of rebate and drawbacks in customs and 
excise Besides the removal of export restrictions on certain varieties of raw 
goat skins, ferrous metals, precious stones, woollen and carpet yarn, two new 
export promotion schemes were announced in respect of tobacco and the sale of 
jewellery and gold articles to tourists. 

34. Direction-wise, exports to the sterling area rose bv Rs. 36 crores to the 
dollar area by Rs. 20 crores, to the O.E.E.C. countries by Rs. 12 crores and to the 
Test of non-sterling area’ by Rs. 51 crores. Out of the increase of Rs. 51 crores 
in exports to the ‘rest of non-sterling area’, the East European Countries account- 
ed for an increase of Rs. 23 crores and Japan for an increase of Rs. 21 crores. 
A disappointing feature of export performance during the year was tb“ small 
increase in the intake of Indian exports by the developed countries of Western 
Eurore. Continental Western Europe increased its intake bv only Rs. 12 crores 
and the United Kingdom by Rs. 11 crores. This increase in imports bv conti- 
nental Western Europe and the U.K. compares favourably with the performance 
in 1962-63 when imports bv the former had risen by Rs. 5 crores and imports 
bv the latter had declined by Rs. 9 crores. Nevertheless, there is cause f or dis- 
appointment ns the benefit accruing to India from the large increase in total 
imports of these countries during the year was relatively very small. 


35. The large availability of non-project assistance and the advanced stage 
of execution reached by many of the projects receiving aid facilitated faster 
utilisation of external assistance during the year. Aid utilisation durintr 1P63-64 
at Rs. 590 crores was Rs. 139 crores or- 31 per cent higher than in 1962-63- 

■36. Imports which had risen bv Rs. 85 crores in 1962-63. rose even faster 
during the year. At Rs, 1,231 crores they were higher by Rs. 139 crores than in 
1962-63. The whole of the increase was due to larger payments on Government 
account for develpmental as well as non-develonmental items. Imports of capital 
equipment for Government projects increased by Rs, 86 crores and Government 



3 774 THE C ’ AZET I£ OF ■■ SEP £ EMBER 10, 1964/rniADRA 28, 1886 [Pam 11- 

food l imports by Rs- 31 crores. On private account, almost all items except 
machinery, mineral oils and raw wool recorded declines, with the result that 
total private imports fell by Rs. 6 crores, Larger availability of internal supplies 
as in the case of cotton where imports fell by Rs. 10 crores, partly enabled the 
reduction m private imports, 

37. On invisibles other than official donations, while payments were higher 
by Rs. 5 crores, receipts rose by Rs. 33 crores. Receipts on account of “Govern- 
ment, not included elsewhere" increased by Rs. 19 crores. due to larger refunds 
of freight initially paid on P.L. 480 imports and higher U.S. Embassy expenditure 
out of P.L. 480 counterpart funds. Transportation, insurance, private donations 
and miscellaneous receipts also rose. On the payment side, investment income 
payments continued to increase (from Rs. 94 crores in 1962-63 to Rs. 98 crores 
in 1963-64), reflecting the growing burden of servicing of external debt. 

38. In view of the general stringency of foreign exchange, the import policy 
for the year 1964-65, announced on March 31, 1964, was, as in the past, basically 
restrictive and the total level of imports permissible for established importers 
and actual users was broadly of the same order as in 1963-64. Among the more 
important changes in the new import policy were the widening of the scope of 
annual licensing to ail imports except capital goods, raw jute, cotton and wool, 
textile machinery and cashewnuts- Likewise, the prevailing system of foreign 
exchange control has been continued during the year 1963-64, ' except for some 
marginal relaxations, In October 1963, the policy m regard to approval of 
passage applications and release of exchange for travel was slightly liberalised. 
And in May 1964, the scales for release of exchange for foreign travel for busi- 
ness purposes, study tours and for attending conferences were revised upwards, 
taking into account the rise in the cost of living in foreign countries. 

39. In the field of private capital inflow, as evidenced, among other things, 
by the rise in the consents given for issue of capital to non-residents, which rose 
from Rs. 56’ 7 crores in 1962 to Rs. 130-5 crores in 1963, the climate for foreign 
investment in India seems to have improved in the period under review. This 
also reflects the eflkacy of the various measures taken during the year to 
encourage the 1 inflow of foreign capital, notably the tax concessions in the budget 
for 1964-65 and the reduction of procedural delays in industrial licensing. 

40. The balance of payments developments during the year have highlighted 
once again the need for unremitting efforts on the export front. The imports 
required for sustaining and developing the economy have grown apace and the 
outgo on servicing of foreign loans has also risen. These have necessitated drafts 
on the country's exchange reserves, despite high receipts from exports and aid. 
The obvious conclusion, therefore, is that the performance on exports will have 
to be bettered still in the coming years, if the tempo of economic development 
is to be sustained. 

41. Reference may also be made here to recent developments in gold policy 
which in the conditions of the Indian economy has to be viewed primarily as an 
adjunct to external economic policy, since the illicit imports of the metal have 
been among the maior causes of leakage in foreign exchange receipts. The 
objective of gold policy ever since the initiation of gold control and other allied 
measures, to which a detailed reference was made in the previous Report, has 
been to curb smuggling through effective regulation of internal transactions in 
gold and thereby to reduce the demand for gold. The initial impact of the 
tightening of the Gold Control Rules could be seen in the easing of the unofficial 
price quotation of 14 carat gold from Rs. 65 — 67 per 10 grammes in the last week 
of June 1963 to Rs. 61 by the middle of Julv 1963. Soon after the first official 
quotation became available on August 28, 1963 (Rs. 64:50) prices moved within 
fairly narrow limits upto the end of August but tended to decline during the 
greater part of September, touching Rs. 59 -00 on September 17. 1963. At this 
stage, certain relaxations were announced in the Gold Control Rules in the light 
of certain difficulties experienced in the implementation, notably the hardships 
to goldsmiths- The modifications provided, among other things, for lieensmc of 
eelf-employed goldsmiths on payment of the requisite fee (i) to convert existing 
gold ornaments in excess of a purity of 14 carats into new' ornaments of an equi- 
valent purity and (ii) to keep primary gold upto a limit of 100 grammes. There 
was some recovery in gold prices in the wake of the relaxations, but this was 
short-lived, and the lowest price of the year was touched on November 6, 1963 
(Rs. 58-00). Since the end of November, the price of void fluctuated either way 
and in the process touched a peak of Rs. 71-25 on May 27. 1964. The price as 
at the end of June 1964 (Rs. 69-50 per 10 grammes) shows a rise of about 6 per 
cent over the year. 



^ec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3775 


42. Recognition of the need for continuance of gold policy on a long-term basis 
is evidenced bv the decision to remove gold control from the purview of the 
Defence of India Rules and to give it a statutory form. Accordingly, a Gold 
Control Bill was introduced in Parliament in November 1963 which provides, 
inter alia, for bringing all categories of persons dealing in goM within the ambit 
of the control machinery and for declarations of holdings of gold ornaments in 
excess of limits as may be specified by the Government. 

43. The buoyancy of silver prices for the greater part of the vear is attribut- 
able not only to the bullishness of the international silver market, but also the 
high level of domestic demand In the wake of controls on gold. The price of 
silver touched an all-time peak of Rs. 269 (per kg.) at the end of January 1964. 
At the end of June 1964 it eased down to Rs. 250, showing a rise of 11 per cent 
over the year. 

Conclusion and Outlook 

44. The foregoing survey has shown that ns a result of increased outlays on 
defence and development over a period during which the rise in onlput, parti- 
cularly in agriculture, was not commensurate with expectations, the Indian 
economy was subject to considerable stresses and strains These pressures were 
reflected in a significant increase in the level of prices, particularly of foodgrains. 
The stabilisation of prices must he a major objective of policy, in order that 
defence and development may be secured while strengthening the balance of 
payments A sizeable expansion in the output of consume- goods, and parti- 
cularly of agricultural products, will be necessary if rising levels of investment 
are to be secured, while maintaining the stability of the economy 

45. A purposive and positive price policy presents indeed the greatest chal- 
lenge to economic statesmanship. Such a policy has to be framed taking into 
account both the short-term aspects and the longer term strategj’ required to 
prevent the recurrence of difficulties that are being currently experienced. The 
short-term measures should be so designed that they could be meshed into a 
long-term strategy- It would also be well to remember that while the short- 
term measures must deal with hoarding, profiteering, etc., the aim should be to 
seek to eliminate or at least to reduce the impact of the primary causes behind 
the price increase- T t is as well to recognise that the country has clearly not 
reached the stane of self-sufficiency; thus, the short-term r olutions should also 
include measures, such as planned imports and distributional arrangements which 
will ensure that the hardship to the vulnerable sections of the community is 
reduced to the minimum In the long-term, the hi chest priority must be given 
to the increase in agricultural output, and the price policy should be such as to 
offer a reasonable return to the cultivator to encourage him to maintain high 
levels of production. Such a policy coupled with a buffer stock operation geared 
closely to the agricultural cvcle, so that in good years the procurements both 
internally and bv import is intensified and the stock buiit-up and in bad years 
stocks are released, should considerably help in achieving the desired degree 
of progress in agricultural output and contribute significantly to price stability. 

46 Simultaneously with the adoption of measures which operate on the sunnlv 
side in the economy, it is essential to pav close attention to the fsetors operating 
on aggregate demand. To rising outlays for development in the public and private 
sectors have been added the heavv load of defence expenditure and more 
recently, expenditure for rehabilitation of refugees from Pakistan and norscm q 
of Indian origin coming from abroad. In the context of a shortage of financial 
resources, these have been financed bv increasing rerourse to bank credit giving 
rise in the proeess to the price problem which has been further accentuated bv 
the pressure of money outside the banking system. 

47. If the conflict between development apd stability is to hn resolved satis- 
factorily. it is essential to maintain a continuous watch on the race and direction 
of development. As defenre has a certain priority, the onus of adiustmcnt falls 
on other sectors- A good deal of the adjustment has been made through altering 
structure and rates of taxation. T n using the tax instrument for this purpose, 
it is important to bear in mind the unsettling effects of freouent chances in the 
general structure of taxation on the climate of investment activity All this 
underlines the importance of 0 striet scrutiny of Government expenditure with 
a view to weeding out less essential items. Even if this result 1 " in temporarily 
slowing down of developmental activity in some arenas, it mav in the long run 
prove beneficial. 

48. The credit policy of the Bank has a dual role to perform Tn its short- 
term aspects, the policy has to ward off against pressures on the orire level 
that might arise as a result of the use of bank rredit At the same time, the 



377 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19. 1964/BHADRA 28, 1396 [Part II- 


interest of development in the priority sectors has to be ensured. Further, the 
unusual pressure of development and other demands calls for the most effective 
mobilisation of genuine savings — a task in which the banking industry hns a 
major part to play. 

49. An encouraging feature of the country’s economic situation is the prog- 

ressive improvement m exports recorded in recent years. It is very essential that 
not only is the pace of progress in this sector maintained but improved further. 
For, even with the most hopeful assumptions regarding foreign assistance, the 
bulk of the indispensable import content of the country’s developmental pro- 
gramme in the near future has necessarily to be met from export earnings. The 
magnitude of the export effort has to be stepped up not only to meet current 
imports, both developmental and maintenance, but also the growing burden of 
external debt, the servicing of which is an important determinant of the coun- 
try’s external credit. This calls for a vigorous and sustained nation-wide export 
drive including in its purview not only the adoption of appropriate measures 

by the Centre and the State Governments but also greater efforts by the leaders 

and associations of the business community. 

50. The stresses and strains the economy has run into by the middle of the 

Third Five-Year Plan have an important bearing on future planning. The 
ability of the economy to withstand these stresses and strains is very much 
dependant on the progress it is able to achieve in the spheres of agriculture and 
exports- But, even with the utmost optimism in regard to agricultural produc- 
tion and the availability of foreign exchange, the resources budget of the natioa 
may well remain strained. The size as also the content of the developmental 

effort have to be carefully considered from this angle and a solution -worked 

out which will enable development to take place In an environment of stability, 
so that the benefits of development are passed on in the right measure to the 
masses. This in its turn points to the need of formulating policies which would 
have to comprehend not only monetary, fiscal and physical controls but also a 
co-ordinsted price and incomes policy. 

n. DEVELOPMENTS IN COMMERCIAL BANKING 

51. The institutional developments and the progress made during the year with 
a view to strengthening the banking system — commercial, industrial and co-opera- 
tive — and promoting its growth on sound lines are reviewed in this and the 
subsequent two sections. 

Banking Legislation 

52. Banking laws have been amended from time to time to ensure better and 
stricter supervision and control of banks. A major development in this sphere 
during the year was the enactment, in December 1963, of the Banking Laws 
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act which simultaneously amended the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949, the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the State Bank 
of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959. The main objective of the new legisla- 
tion is to enhance the Reserve Bank’s powers over commercial banks as well as 
to regulate the acceptance of deposits by non-banking institutions (including 
financial institutions) from the public and the conduct of business of financial 
institutions. Thus, the amending Act provides further powers to the Reserve 
Bank to ensure stricter supervision and control over commercial banks and in 
particular (a) to restrain control exercised by particular groups of persons over 
the affairs of banks, (b) to restrict loans and advances as well as guarantees 
given by hanks on behalf of any one company, firm, association of persons or 
individual and (c) to give greater control to the Reserve Bank over the appoint- 
ment and removal of bank's executive personnel. 

53. The amending Act reduces the maximum voting rights of individual share- 
holders of banking companies inculding subsidiaries of the State Bark from 5 
per cent to 1 per cent of the total voting rights of all shareholders, so that the 
control may be diffused among, the shareholders. The amending Act also invests 
the Reserve Bank with powers to regulate the activities of non-bankine institu- 
tions (including financial Institutions) accepting deposits from the public- The 
existing legislation relating to banks did not provide for any control over com- 
panies or other institutions which, though not treated as hanks, accent deposits 
from the general public or carry on other business allied to banking- More 
recentlv. the volume of deposits accepted bv them has been growing steadllv and 
the rates of interest offered bv these institutions were comparativelv high. Tt 
was not possible to gauge the extent of deposits collected bv them and likewise, 
there was a need for ensuring adequate protection to depositors. For ensuring 



sic. S(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3777 


more effective supervision and management of the monetary and credit system, 
it was considered necessary that the Reserve Bank should be in a position to 
supervise, control and regulate the activities of such companies or institutions, 
Tne amendments to the Reserve Bank of India Act empower the Bank to regulate 
or prohibit the issue of prospectus or advertisement by non-banking institutions 
soliciting deposits from the public, to call for returns and information relating 
to deposits from such institutions, to give them directions in regard to receipt 
of deposits and to prohibit acceptance of deposits by any such institution which 
fails to comply with its directions. The Bank may also call for from financial 
institutions information regarding their paid-up capital, reserves or other liabi- 
lities investments, terms and conditions of their advances, etc., and give direc- 
tions’ to such institutions relating to the conduct of their business. The Bank is 
also empowered to inspect any non-banking institution and its books and accounts 
for the purpose of verifying correctness of or completeness of any Statement, 
information or particulars furnished to the Bank by them or for the purpose 
of obtaining any information or particulars which they may have failed to furnish 
on their being called upon to do so. 


Industrial Finance 

54. The two major institutional developments in the sphere of industrial 
finance during the year were the establishment of the Unit Trust of India and 
the enactment of legislation for the setting up of the Industrial Development Bank 
of India. The Unit Trust of India, established by the Unit Trust of India Act, 
1963, with the objective of mobilising savings of the community and channelling 
them into productice investment, and, more importantly, for encouraging wide- 
spread and diffused ownership of industry by affording investors, particularly 
the small investor, a means of acquiring equity 'stock assured of reasonable return 
with minimum risk, commenced operations bn February 1, 1964- Its Initial capital 
of Rs. 5 crores has been subscribed to by the Reserve Bank of India, the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India, the State Bank of India and its subsidiaries, 
scheduled banks and other specified institutions. The general direction and 
management of affairs and business of the Trust is vested in a Board of Trustees. 
In the discharge of its functions, the Board is required to act on business prin- 
ciples and is to be guided by such directives in the matter of policy involving 
public interest as given to it by the Reserve Bank. As envisaged in the Act, the 
Trust has formulated a unit scheme which has been brought into operation from 
July I, 1964. The scheme envisages the sale of units each of the face value of 
Rs. 10 at par upto August 14, 1964, after which the price of each unit would be 
determined from day to day at which the Trust would be prepared to buy and 
sell such units. The Trust is exempted from the payment of income-tax, super 
tax and other taxes on its income. Further, income received by individuals from 
unit certificates is exempted from income-tax, if such income does not exceed 
Rs. 1,000. Also, such income is exempted from super tax in the case of a unit 
holder who would not have been liable to pay super tax but for the inclusion 
of this income in his total income- The initial response to the sale of units has 
been good, with a regular flow of applications from all parts of the country. 


55. In investing its funds, the Trust will pay attention to the security of 
capital as well as to a reasonable return, including capital appreciation on invest- 
ment. Thus, guide-lines have been provided in the Regulations for the function- 
ing the Trust and the employment of Its funds: (1) investments by the Trust 
in any one company should not exceed 5 per cent of the value of the total 
investible funds of the Trust or 10 per cent of the value of the securities issued 
and outstanding of such company, whichever is lower and (2) not more than 
5 per cent of the investible funds should be invested in the initial issues of 
securities of new industrial undertakings. The Trust aims at building up a 
balanced portfolio, consisting of fixed income-bearing securities and variable 
income-bearing securities yielding a reasonable overall return. 


56. While the assistance provided by the several existing term lending insti- 
tutions has shown an impressive rise in recent years, it was clear that their 
combined efforts would be quite inadequate to meet the needs of rapid indus- 
trialisation, Apart from the need for a much larger size of investment in indus- 
try in future, a far greater diversification of the industrial structure is called 
for. Also, in certain vital strategic sectors, expansion of which holds the key 
to the development of new industries and to more efficient production in related 
fields, the progress achieved leaves much to be desired. All these call for invest- 
ments of such order as are bound to strain the resources of the capital market. 
The existing financial institutions are also not properly equipped to carry the 
additional burden of financing industrial growth within the existing rules and 



3778 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 19. 196-1/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 


cnteria governing their operations It was in this setting that the establishment 
of a new statutory institution, as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank, 
was conceived, 

57. The Industrial Development Bank of India, which commenced its opera- 
tions on July I, 1964, will assist industrial concerns either directly or through 
other financial institutions. It will provide direct assistance in the form of loans 
and advances or by subscribing to, purchasing or underwriting issues of stocks, 
shares, bonds or debentures. It can also guarantee deferred payments due from 
industrial concerns and loans raised by them in the open market or from specified 
institutions. The Bank will also give fresh strength' to the existing term lending 
institutions by providing refinance facilities for all periods, other than purely 
short-term, and by supplementing their capital and other resources. For assist- 
ance to industries in certain vital strategic sectors where applicants may not be 
able to satisfy the full rigours of strictly commercial considerations, the Bank 
will set up the ‘Development Assistance Fund’ primarily out ot funds which will 
be placed at its disposal by the Government of India. 

58. To enable the Development Bank to finance all types of industrial enter- 
prises, these have been defined widely to cover manufacturing, mining, processing 
and service industries including shipping, transport and hotel industries both in 
the private and public sectors, and incorporated under the Companies Act or any 
other law. Unlike the existing statutory corporations, no restrictive provisions 
regarding the nature and type of security that may be accepted by the Develop- 
ment Bank have been written into its statute. The Bank will thus be in a posi- 
tion to exercise a large degree of discretion in these matters. 

59. The Development Bank has an authorised capital of Rs- 50 crores, which 
may be raised to Rs. 100 crores by the Reserve Bank of India with the prior 
approval of the Government of India. Its capital is to be wholly subscribed to 
by the Reserve Bank. The initial paid-up capital of Rs. 10 crores is supplemened 
by an interest-free loan of Rs. 10 crores from the Central Government. It has 
also access to the National Industrial Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund set up 
by the Reserve Bank. The Development Bank has acquired a 50 per cent interest 
in the Industrial Finance Corporation of India with effect from August 1, 1964. 

60. In view of the difficult conditions for raising fresh capital from the open 
market, a reference to which has already been made in Section I, the private 
industrial sector has been placing increased reliance on term lending institutions. 
This was reflected in an impressive rise in financial assistance provided by the 
Industrial Finance Corporation of India, the Industrial Credit and Investment 
Corporation of India, the Refinance Corporation for Industry and the State 
Financial Corporations. The Refinance Corporation sanctioned during the year 
176 applications for Rs. 23 crores as against 105 applications for Rs. 16 crores in 
1962-63; disbursements too were large at Rs. 19 crores against Rs. 11 crores in 
1962-63. The financial assistance approved by the Industrial Credit and Invest- 
ment Corporation of India rose from Rs. 20 crores in 1962 to Rs. 25 crores in 

1963. About one-half of such assistance was provided in the form of rupe* 
loans, underwriting of and direct subscriptions to ordinary and preference shares 
and debentures; the remainder was in loans in foreign currency. It disbursed 
Rs. 11 crores in 1963; a little over one-half was in foreign currency. The loans 
and advances of the Industrial Finance Corporation of India and the 15 State 
Financial Corporations rose by Rs. 9 crores each during the year ended June 30, 

1964, and in addition, some of these corporations subscribed to the equity shares 
and debenture issues of industrial concerns, in fulfilment of their underwriting 
obligations, 

61. To meet the rising credit demands, these term lending institutions had to 

reinforce their resources. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of 
India augmented its rupee as well as foreign currency resources, the former 
through a loan of Rs. 10 crores from the Government of India and the latter 
through two fresh lines of credit from the World Bank for U.S. $30 million 

(Rs. 14-28 crores) and the Kreditanstalt of West Germany for DM 20 million 

(Rs. 2 38 crores). The Refinance Corporation for Industry not only exhausted 
the balance of Rs, 9-50 crores out of the allocations of Rs. 26 crores from P. L. 
480 funds, but had to borrow an additional amount of Rs. 6-50 crores from the 
Government on an ad hoc basis, pending the finalisation of arrangements for a 
further allocation of P, L. 480 funds. Five of the State Financial Corporations 

also had recourse to the issue of bonds for an aggregate of Rs. 3'60 crores to 

augment their resources. Some of the State Financial Corporations augmented 
their resources through the acceptance of fixed and call deposits and the issue 



- &A , i INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BltADRA 28, 1886 3779 


of cash certificates. In addition, 8 State Financial Corporations availed of the 
credit facilities from the Reserve Bank in terms of Section 17(4A) which enables 
them to borrow from the Bank for periods upto 18 months. Four of these cor- 
porations were granted loan limits lor the first time in the current year while 
the others were sanctioned limits in the previous year. The limits granted to two 
of these corporations were renewed on the expiry of the period, The total effective 
sanctions at the end of June 1964 stood at Rs. 4 erores, of which Rs. 1 erore was 
outstanding against two corporations. 

62. The scheme for the gurantee of advances granted to private sector of the 
coal industry which is administered by the Refinance Corporation for Industry 
since its introduction in April 1963, made steady progress. Twenty-nine appli- 
cations in respect of advances aggregating Rs. 356 lakhs were received from 9 
credit institutions and 27 guarantees for Rs. 288 lakhs were issued. A small 
beginning was also made by the Refinance Corporation for Industry under its 
scheme for refinancing of medium-term export credits, with the receipt and 
sanction of an application for Rs, 11 lakhs In the previous year against which a 
sum of Rs. 8 lakhs was disbursed in the current year. 

63. In pursuance of the recommendation of the Study Group on Export Finance 
that the Refinance Corporation for Industry should so regulate its Interest rate 
on refinance of medium-term export credits, as to ensure that funds are available 
to Indian exporters from banks at not more than 6' per cent per annum, to enable 
them to compete effectively in the foreign markets, the Corporation reduced, 
with effect from December 23, 1983, the rate of Interest on medium term export 
credit to 4-1/2 per cent, provided the financing bank did not charge more than 
6 per cent to the exporter. In other cases of refinance of exports, the interest 
charged by the Corporation continued to be at the rate of 5 per cent and in res- 
pect of refinancing of industrial loans at 54 per cent, Further, with a view to 
extending the benefits of the scheme to small exporters who may ship goods in 
instalments against a particular contract, the Corporation decided to refinance 
export credits for even less than Rs, 1 lakh (which was previously the minimum 
amount of a loan in respect of which refinance could be sought), provided the 
relative export contract was for a minimum amount of Rs. 1 lakh. 

64. During the year, the Reserve Bank inspected, in terms of Section 37A 
of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951, four State Financial Corporations 
viz,, those of the Punjab, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan and the Madras 
Industrial Investment Corporation Ltd. 

65. A reference was made In the previous year’s Report to the constitution 
of a Working Group on State Financial Corporations. The Group submitted Its 
report in February 1964. For promoting the growth of these corporations to the 
stature of development banks, the Group has suggested the amendment of their 
statute to authorise therp to directly participate In the equity of corporate 
Industrial units and to relax the security restriction by vesting discretionary 
powers in the Board, so that due regard could be had to the prospects of opera- 
tions of an Industrial concern. It has also made a number of recommendations 
for augmenting the resources of these corporations. The recommendations of 
the Group are under examination of the Bank in consultation with the Central 
and State Governments, State Financial Corporations, Industrial Finance Corpora- 
tion of India, Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd., etc. 

Financing of Small-Scale Industries 

66. Over the years, the Bank has been making special efforts to stimulate the 
flow of commercial bank credit to the small-scale industrial sector in a variety of 
ways, such as the grant of preferential treatment in lending to the sector, ad- 
ministration of the guarantee scheme, co-ordination of the activities of and pro- 
vision of service facilities to the institutions lending to this sector. During the 
year, the Government of India’s scheme for the guarantee of advances granted by 
specified banks and financial institutions to small-scale industries was amended; 
the more important amendments to the scheme were : (i) the extension of the 
guarantee to credit facilities in the form of purchase or discount of bills which 
were not eligible for guarantee so far ; (it) credit institutions which were required 
to pay, in respect of term loans, guarantee fees on the maximum amount of the 
loan as sanctioned irrespective of the amount outstanding at the time of appli- 
cation for guarantee, can now seek guarantees and pay fees in respect of such out- 
standing amounts; and (ill) applications for guarantee in respect of term loans 
which were formerly required to be made for a period of one year or the full 
period of the loan (subject to a maximum period of seven years), but not for any 
intermediate period, may now be made for any intermediate period as well. 



378o T he gazette of India : September 19, 1964/bhadra 28, 1886 [Part u— 


67. The scheme made considerable progress during 1963-64; 5,343 applications 
for guarantee for an aggregate amount of Hs. 23 ’08 crores were received as against 
2,893 applications for Us. 12-44 crores during 1962-63. The Guarantee Organisa- 
tion issued 4,478 certirtcates covering an amount of Rs. 17-95 crores during tne 
current year as against 2,437 certificates for Us. 9 '73 crores during the previous 
year. The total guarantees outstanding as on June 30, 1964 aggregated Ks. 18:76 
crores. During the year, twenty-two guarantees in respect of certificates for 
Rs. 7‘6 lakhs were invoked and a total sum of Rs. 0'9 lakh relating to tweive of 
them was paid by the Guarantee Organisation; the remaining ten claims were 
under consideration. 

68. Although applications for guarantee continued to be received largely from 
the State Bank of India, many other institutions have been increasingly availing 
themselves of this facility. 

69. Credit extended to small-scale Industries by the State Bank of India under 
its liberalised credit scheme increased substantially during the year. The numoer 
of units assisted increased by 45 per cent to 4,823, limits sanctioned by 68 per cent 
to Rs. 2369 crores and the amount outstanding by 57 per cent to Rs.' 11.08 crores. 
The bank continued to pay increasing attention to the provision of medium-term 
finance to small-scale industries for expansion, modernisation, replacement, etc., 
for which certain liberalisations with regard tg margin, security, valuation, etc. 
were effected. 

70. The number of units assisted and limits granted under the guarantee 
scheme of the National Small Industries Corporation made further progress. The 
negotiations between the State Bank and the National Small Industries Corpora- 
tion to extend the scope of the guarantee in order to enable small units executing 
Government contracts to obtain working capital finance right from the stages of 
procurement of raw materials to the supply of finished goods have been finalised. 
All the facilities granted by the State Bank under this arrangement will be cover- 
ed by the Corporation's guarantee. Only such facilities as are admissible under 
the Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Government of India would be covered 
under that scheme, Where an advance Is guaranteed under both the schemes, 
in case of default, the State Bank will simultaneously Invoke the guarantees on 
the basis of the amount in default which will be shared among the Corporation, 
the Guarantee Organisation and the State Bank in the proportion of 30:50:20. The 
maximum liability of the Guarantee Organisation will continue to be restricted to 
Rs. 1 lakh in respect of any one advance, whereas the Corporation’s share will be 
subject to a maximum of Rs. 25,000 in respect of any, one unit and Rs. 30 lakhs 
under the scheme. 


Strengthening of the Banking Structure 

71. In Its effort towards the consolidation and integration of the banking 
structure, the Reserve Bank has, in recent years, been increasingly fostering the 
growth of economically sound and sizeable regional banking units which could 
cater to the banking needs of the region more efficiently. Very often, the Reserve 
Bank itself has taken the Initiative and persuaded such banking units which do 
not hold promise of developing into viable units within a reasonable period, to 
amalgamate with or transfer their liabilities and assets to viable banks, In this 
process, the Bank lays greater stress on voluntary amalgamations under Section 
44A of the Banking Companies Act or transfer of liabilities and assets under 
Section 293(1) (a) of the Companies Act, 1956. Care is also taken that the merger 
of the non-viable units takes place with financially sound and well managed 
regional units, in a smooth fashion. 

72. During the year, further progress was made in this process of integration. 
Five banks were amalgamated with four other banks under Section 44A of the 
Banking Companies Act, 1949 and twenty-five banks transferred their liabilities 
and assets to ten other banks. In addition, eight banks were granted moratoria, 
on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank, in order to facilitate their reconstruc- 
tion and amalgamation in terms of Section 45 of the Act, thus raising the number 
of banks to which moratoria was granted upto June 30, 1964 to 48. Schemes of 
amalgamation In respect of four banks were brought into force during the year 
as against 17 and 1 during the preceding two years. 

73. During the year, eight non-scheduled banks went into liquidation; among 
these seven were on a voluntary basis, after obtaining a certificate from the Re- 
serve Bank under Section 44(1) of the Banking Companies Act, 1949, while the 
remaining one was ordered to be wound up by the High Court of Kerala, Some 
of these banks had already transferred their assets and liabilities to other banks. 



ate. 3(1 i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3781 


while certain others were In a moribund condition and could not be absorbed by 
other banking units- 

74. With a view to keeping a closer watch on tho functioning of banks, the 
frequency of Inspections has been Increased in an endeavour to see that each bank 
Is Inspected at least once a year. A greater element of surprise in conducting 
Inspections has also been introduced. The inspections now cover a larger number 
of branches of a bank and are more detailed in their scope. No action in regard 
to the working of banks is taken unless their management have had opportunities 
to represent their viewpoint in regard to the various aspects covered by an inspec- 
tion. This also results in a greater appreciation of the Reserve Bank’s viewpoint 
In regard to the working of the banks. During the year, 44 scheduled and 74 non- 
scheduled banks were inspected. The inspection of four of these non-scheduled 
banks was undertaken for issue of certificates to them, under Section 44(1) of the 
Banking Companies Act, consequent on their proposals for going into voluntary 
liquidation, and that of another non-scheduled bank which had entered into a 
scheme of arrangement with its creditors, for the purpose of submitting a report 
to the Court. Besides, the scrutiny of the affairs of 43 banks . was carried out 
for other purposes, such as (i) determining the value of their assets and liabilities, 
as -also the real value of paid-up capital, (lx) enquiring into the causes of erosion 
of deposits, (iii) ascertaining whether there is a prim a facie case for misfeasance 
proceedings, (iv) amalgamating banks and (v) issuing of certificates under Sections 
44(1), 44B, 49B, 490, etc. 

75. By way of follow-up of the Inspections carried out, 86 banks were required 
to submit periodical reports of the progress made in rectification of the defects 
pointed out in the course of Inspections. There are at present 104 banks sub- 
mitting monthly progress reports and 65 banks submitting quarterly progress re- 
ports In suitable cases, informal discussions were held with the representatives 
of banks, at which emphasis was laid on the urgency of immediate corrective 
action to remedy the major defects in the working of concerned banks. In cases 
where the findings of the inspection called for stricter control over the affairs of 
the concerned banks, suitable directions were Issued to them for compliance. 
There are at present 98 banks (16 scheduled and 82 non-scheduled) working under 
directions In some cases, observers have also been deputed, to attend the Board/ 
Committee meetings of the banks and to carry out periodical scrutiny of their 
current affairs. 


Branch Licensing Policy 

76. Although the basic objective of the branch licensing policy of the Bank 
has been to regulate the opening of new offices of banks, in a manner as to assist 
the sound development of the banking system and to enable it to cater to the 
expanding requirements of the country, In recent years, the emphasis of the policy 
has been on the spree ' of banking facilities to unbanked or underbanked areas, 
notably to semi-urban a - 1 rural areas. Consideration is also given to applications 
for opening of offices in , 'ces where banking facilities exist but could be further 
expanded with advantage \ the economy. In ord°r to assist the banks to formu- 
late their branch expansion "rogrammes in a systematic manner and to obtain 
the Reserve Bank’s permission 'ell in advance, the Reserve Bank advised them in 
July 1962, to draw up their pugrammes for a period of three years in stages 
from August 1, 1962 to July 31, 1965. In drawing up the programme, banks were 
expected to take into consideration the need for expansion in areas not having 
any banking facilities or are underbanked. A list of unbanked towns In India 
was also compiled and supplied to banks, so as to facilitate the selection of centres 
suitable to them. After considering the programme of individual banks, the Bank 
has, during the period August 1962 to June 1964, issued licences for opening 373 
new offices, of which 147 are for unbanked centres. In addition, the Bank has 
indicated its approval for proposals to open 213 more offices, of which 81 will be 
at unbanked centres. Each bank has been encouraged to implement a co-ordinated 
programme of expansion, embracing areas devoid of banking faculties and sub- 
urban areas of urban centres, besides towns and cities of commercial and indus- 
trial Importance, with due regard to its overall financial position, resources and 
earning prospects. 

77. The State Bank and Its subsidiaries, which have been assigned a significant 
role in the expansion of banking facilities, have been implementing a phased 
programme of branch expansion. The State Bank in Its second Phase of 
expansion between June 30, I960 and June'30, 1965, undertook to open 300 more 
branches between Itself and its subsidiaries in the ratio of 14a to 155. Sub- 
sequently, it was found that an expansion programme of this order would not be 
adequate, as this would still leave a large number of treasuries and sub-treasuries 
without banking facilities. There was need for a more accelerated programme 01 



0782 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 10, 1904/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 

^ 1 1 , ■ ■ * r f j 'TAti' r ^i >T/ "' y "‘o * * P y v y* 


expansion. The bank has since decided to open additional 319 branches during the 
five-year period commencing from January 1, 1964, at treasury and sub-treasury 
centres selected for this purpose by the Reserve Bank. In order to facilitate the 
opening of these additional 319 branches, it has been decided that, in addition to 
subsidy that will be payable to the State Bank of India for the losses incurred at 
these branches, 50 per cent of the cost each of training of staff and head office con- 
trol and supervision attributable to these 310 branches will be reimbursed from 
the Integration and Development Fund. 


78, During the year under review, the State Bank of India opened 34 branches 
and Its subsidiaries 43 branches Aa at the end of June 1904. the total number 
of offices of the State Bank and Its subsidiaries stood at 1,686. The other schedule 
banks (t e., excluding the State Bank of India and its subsidiaries) made substan- 
tial progress in the opening of new offices. Besides an addition of 82 offices follow- 
ing merger and/or taking over of the assets and liabilities of non-scheduled banks, 
other scheduled banks opened as many as 147, new offices at places which were not 
formerly served by a scheduled bank or non-scheduled bank having paid-up capital 
and reserves of over Rs. 50,000, Besides, 292 new offices were opened at other centres. 
As against this, 106 offices were closed during the year under review which includ- 
*3 i 4 T 6d ? ce ? , ot the P »pdyan Ba » k Ltd, and 18 offices of the Bharatba Lakshmi 
Ba hk Ltd., taken over by two other scheduled banks. Thus, the total number of 
offices Of all scheduled banks rose over the year by 416 to 5 r 222 

n. DEVELOPMENT IN CO-OPERATIVE BANKING 

and 79 Droeress°'h?.t r th 1 J e « bankl ? f L structure continue^ to show further expansion 
States In ° f de v^opment has been highly uneven as between 

cases CaMS ’ amon , e different parts of the same State. In certain 

® ven recession in credit has been noticed In recent years. 
S' ooMatmnai ro "«P« r »tlve credit Institutions at different levels in terms 

ot operational efficiency and financial soundness was a major impediment for a 

r m P u l Kr 2 W i h tbe co-oP^tUive movement. The Reserve Bank has continu* 
hrirvtr ”1 ke f eflCo ^ ts ’ ln co-ordination with the Central and State Governments to 
dlffnpnfwi” improvement in the structure and working of the institution at 
i r *?< « n lncr eaB« in their Own resources in the form 

vlew h that dnrln v ' th K 0:11 sl *“ flcant iaterwrt from this • poiht ot 

view that, during the year, an action programme for the reorganisation and 

m^ Prnent ° f c ®'°P eratlv f credit was drawn up on the basis of discussions held 
Pllnmncr K? V “ f th e. B ank, the concerned Union Ministries and the 
Planning Commission, and was thereafter circulated by the Government of India 

10 dl " ricts ,or th « 


Co-operative Credit Policy, Procedure and Operations 


„ . w * iS mad ® the previous year’s Repoft of the Bank’s decision to 
r e irnbursemefit facility to State co-operative banks tipto 75 per cent 
of fresh medium-term loans made by them over and above the basic level of such 
“ e „ s f rom their own resources as on 30th June 1962, provided that these 
banks, correspondingly had granted similar reimbursement to central co-opera- 
H, ve b f nlw to extent of 75 per cent of the fresh medium-terms loads made by 
the later, over the basic level obtaining as on 30th June 1962. In the light of the 
experience gained in regard to the working of this procedure iji 1962-63 the 
policy was reviewed during the year and conditions of reimbursement ’ were 
liberalised ln certain respects. Under the liberalised procedure, an apex co- 
operative bank could reimburse itself on behalf of an affiliated central co-opera- 
tive bank to the extent of 80 per cent of the loans of the latter outstanding against 
societies above the basic level as on June 30, 1962. Moreover, the stipulation 
regarding the maintenance of separate margins by the apex and central banks 
would not be insisted upon. 


81. Following the recommendations of the V.L, Mehta Committee on Co- 
operative Credit. the Bank had in November 1901 called upon the Registrars of 
Co-operative Societies and the co-operative banks to ensure that outstanding loans 
to the Bank were matched in all cases by non-overdue loans outstanding against 
their constituents. But, as overdues in certain areas were rising, the State co- 
operative banks were called upon to submit to the Bank a certificate every month 
to the effect that their short-term or medium-term borrowings from the Bank 
in respect of every central bank, for agricultural purposes, were fully covered 
by the centra) banks non-overdue loans outstanding against affiliated societies 
for the same purposes. This condition was, however, waived In the case of 
borrowings on behalf of ‘C’ class central co-operative banks against the State 



*fc. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE QF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1888 3783 


■Government’s guarantee, as it was felt that the imposition of the condition in 
such cases might cause some hardship. 

82. The volume of finance provided by the Bank to State co-operative banka 
registered a substantial rise during the year. Credit limits for short-term 
purposes (including special limits sanctioned under the Package Programme) 
sanctioned to State co-operative banks at the concessional rate of 2 per cent 
below the Bank rate were higher at Rs, 186 crores, as against Rs. 194 crores in 
the previous year. A security-wise breakdown of the limits granted during the 
year shows that about one-half of the limits (Rs. 85 crores) was against the 
security of co-operative paper bearing two good signatures, one of which waa 
that of a State co-operative bank and the other that of an affiliated central co- 
operative bank, and another 43 per cent (Re. 80 crores) was covered by Gov- 
ernment guarantee; the balance of Rs. 11 crores (6 per cent) was against the 
pledge or repledge of Government or other eligible securities. Drawals aggregat- 
ed Rs. 298 crores during the year, while repayments were Rs. 276 crores; in the 
result, the outstandings at the end of June, 1064 at Rs. 147 crores were higher by 
Us. 22 crorea oyer the year, In addition to the seasonal accommodation at the 
•concessional rate, short-term finance amounting ■ to Rs. 17 crores was also made 
available at the Bank rate to certain apex banks for general banking purposes 
or for meeting the working capital requirements of cooperative sugar factories. * 

83. Consequent on the liberalisation of Bank's lending policy referred to 
■earlier, there was a noticeable increase in the provision of medium-term credit to 
the co-operative sector. During the year, medium-term credit limits sanctioned 
by the bank for agriculture lpurposes aggregated Rs. 14 crores, as against a sum 
of Rs. 9 crores in 1962-63. The drawals on these limits during 1963-64, however, 
amounted to only Rs. 7 crorea, constituting only 53 per cent of the loans sanction- 
ed, and repayments to Rs. 5 crores. The amount outstanding against the State 
oO-operative banks as on June 30, 1964 was Ra. 13 crores. 

84. There was also a marginal increase in the draft on the Bank for financing 
the production and marketing activities of handloom weaver’s co-operative 
societies. Credit limits sanctioned for .this purpose at the concessional rath of 
14, pot cent below the Bank rate, under Section 17(2) (bb) or 4(c) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, amounted to Rs. 6 crores, as against Rs. 5 crores In the pre- 
vious year. The amount of credit drawn by the State co-operative banka for 
financing handloom weaver’s co-operatives during the year aggregated Rs. S 
■croses and the outstandings at the end Of the year amounted to Rs. 5 crores. In 
addition, the Babk also sanctioned a sum of Rs. 1 crore at the Bank rate under 
Section 17(2) (a) or (4)(c) of the Act, for financing! commercial or trade trans- 
actions of the handloom weavers’ co-operatives. 

85. The Bank continued to sanction loans from the National Agricultural 
Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund to State Governments . for enabling them to 
subscribe to the share capital of co-operative credit institutions. The loans thus 
sanctioned during the year amounted to Rs. 3 crores, No amount has so fajr 
been utilised from the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund. 

86 . The Bank continued its policy of support to the debentures of central 
land mortgage banks. During the year, eleven central land mortgage banks 
issued debentures for a total sum of Rs. 23 crores, of which Rs. 4 crores or 17 
per cent were taken by the Bank, while the co-operative institutions and the 
Life Insurance Corporation subscribed for about two-thirds of the amount issued. 
A new development In this sphere was the recommendation hy the Standing 
Advisory Committee on Agricultural Credit, following a resolution of the All- 
India Central Land Mortgage Banks' Conference held during the year to the effect 
that upto 60 per cent of the sinking funds of central land mortgage banks might 
be inyested in the debentures of such banks; this proposal Is likely to step-up the 
co-operative sector’s contribution to these debentures, Another measure towards 
the same end was the decision taken during the year, by the National Co-opera- 
tive Development Corporation to purchase debentures of central land rportgage 
banks of States other than Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madras, Maharashtra and 

< which were fairly well developed in long-term credit); the contribution 
was fixed at 7J per cent of the amount Issued in each series during 1964-05. The 
Reserve Bank continued to lend its support to the rural debentures Issued by 
the central land mortgage banks where the Bank’s contribution was linked to the 
response from the public in the proportion of 8:7, Rural debentures for Rs, 1-78 
crores were floated by the central land mortgage banks in Andhra Pradesh, 
Gujarat, Madras, Maharashtra, Mysore and Punjab. The contributions made by 
the Bank to rural debentures of two of these banks which had closed the issue 
by the end of the year, amounted to Rs, 49'47 lakhs. The earlier directive that 
rural debenture series should not be on tap for more than 4 months commencing 



3784 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II— 


not before January 1 and ending not later than June 30 every year was modified 
during the year to permit the central land mortgage banks to float debentures 
during any period considered by them as well as by the concerned State Govern- 
ment as the most suitable, Besides subscribing to the ordinary and rural deben- 
tures, the Bank also contributed Rs. 4'08 lakhs to the first series of special develop- 
ment debenture floated by the Kerala Co-operative Central Land Mortgage Bank 
for Rs, 6‘41 lakhs, in connection with the scheme of bringing under plantation of 
rubber in Kerala, roughly one lakh acres of land. The Bank’s holdings in rural 
and special development debentures rose to Rs. 4 '09 crores at the end of the 
year from Rs. 2;85 crores at the end of the previous year. 

. 87. During the year, 365 co-operative banks and 9 other societies were Inspect- 
ed ^y the Agricultural Credit Department a s against 337 co-operative banks and 
10 other societies inspected during 1962-63, 

Co-operative Development Policy 

88. On the mid-term appraisal of the Third Five-Year Plah for Co-operation 
by the Planning Commission, it became apparent that, on curront trends, there 
was likely to be a sizeable shortfall In the targets set under the Plan for short-term 
and medium-term agricultural cerdit as also long-term credit. By and large, the 
situation had arisen from weaknesses in the co-operative credit structure, the 
most prominent of these being the rising trend of overdues which affected the 
financial accommodation from the higher financing agencies and the Reserve 
Bank. The absorptive capacity of the credit structure did not seem to keep pace 
with the rising quantum of credit forthcoming from the Reserve Bank. Thus, 
the proportion of maximum outstanding to the total credit limits sanctioned by 
the Reserve Bank for short-term agricultural purposes continued to fall from 
year to year declining from 90 per cent of the total limits in 1960-61, to 84 per 
cent, 81 per cent and 79 per cent in the last three years, respectively, A reference 
has already been made to the fact that the drawals on mdium-term loans during 
the year constituted only about 53 per cent of the loans sanctioned. The low 
utilisation reflects the inability of the co-operative banks to provide non-overdue 
cover for their borrowings from the Reserve Bank, to plan their programmes of 
lending and resource-utilisation on a realistic basis and to Implement them 
according to schedule. The overdues resulted, in some Njases, from adverse 
seasonal conditions but more often from slackness in recovery and the failure of 
institutions at different levels to fulfil their functions in regard to determination 
of the size of loans with reference to crop and acreage, seasonality in lending and 
recovery, proper supervision, linking of credit with marketing, etc. Increasing 
emphasis has, therefore, been placed on ensuring that the policies of credit insti- 
tutions are oriented to production and mobilisation of resources and that there is 
a qualitative Improvement in their "actual working. Of special importance from 
this point of view are the Implementation of rational loan policies geared to 
production requirements, the development of primary agricultural credit societies 
into efficient and viable units, the promotion of co-operative marketing and pro- 
cessing suitably linked with credit, and the employment of adequate and trained 
personnel in co-operative departments and Institutions, 

89. These and other features are incorporated in a detailed action programme 
for co-operative development which has been formulated on the basis of discus- 
sions held by the Bank, Ministry of Community Development end Co-operation, 
Ministry of Agriculture and the Planning Commission. This is intended to apply 
to the whole country, but priority is to be given for implementation in the large 
number of districts selected for the Intensive Agricultural Areas Programme 
which has been launched as a major effort for stepping up agricultural produc- 
tion. The emphasis of this programme on the promotion of viable units received 
support at the Conference of State Ministers for Co-operation held at Hyderabad 
In June 1964. The Conference recommended that the State Governments should, 
firstly, work out area-wise the quantum of business necessary to attain viable 
status, secondly, delimit, on the basis of a survey, areas within the accepted 
population coverage to ensure such business potential and, thirdly, formulate 
specific programmes to enable the societies in these areas to attain viability. As 
regards co-operative marketing, which had also received high priority in the 
action programme, the Conference recommended the appointment of a high- 
powered committee to review the existing pattern of organisation for co-operative 
marketing of agricultural produce, distribution of production requisites and 
supply of consumers’ articles and the role of marketing societies In the integrated 
structure of credit, supply and marketing. It may also be mentioned here that 
the provision of adequate personnel to attend to administration, audit and inspec- 
tion of co-operative societies and the need for the central co-operative banks to 
be entrusted with the responsibility of supervision of agricultural credit societies* 




J*FC. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3785 


which were other important features of the action programme, were also empha- 
sised in' the report submitted during the year by the Committee on Co-operative 
Administration, to which a reference was made in the previous year’s Report. 

90. As in the previous years, discussions were held by the Deputy Governor 
in charge of rural credit with the official and non-official representatives of the 
•co-operative movement irom the various States during April— June 1964, on the 
outstanding issues relating to the development qf the co-operative credit structure 
in the States. These discussions provide a valuable opportunity for a useful ex- 
change of views and for a review of past performance and mormulation of pro- 
grammes with due consideration for those aspects of the cerdit situation in each 
:State which, in the Bank's view, call for attention and early action. 

91. The Bank’s Standing Advisory Committee on Agricultural Credit held three 
meetings during the year. The Committee decided to review the progress of the 
Intensive Agricultural District Programme at each of its meetings. Some of the 
important issues discussed at these meetings were: arrangements for the insurance 
■of co-operative deposits; some aspects of co-operative development in Maharashtra- 
Agricultural Credit Stabilisation Funds; investment of sinking funds of central 
land mortgage banks. 

92. Detailed references were made in the previous two Reports to the Intensive 
Agricultural District Programme, chiefly designed to achieve an immediate increase 
in the production of foodgrains and other important ci#ps, as well as to the Bank’s 
role in the programme which is directed towards strengthening the co-operative 
credit structure and the provision of reimbursement finance. With the extension 
of the programme to a wider area as well as the larger experience gained in 
-drawing up production plans at the farmer’s level, there has been an increase in 
the demand for accommodation from the Reserve Bank. The special credit limits 
sanctioned by the Reserve Bank for the 17 central co-operative banks Concerned 
-amounted to Rs. 839 lakhs in 1963-64 as against Rs. 280 lakhs sanctioned on behalf 
of 8 banks in 1982-63. 

93. A reference has already been made to the action programme for co- 
operative credit which was drawn up for the districts selected for what is called 
Intensive Agricultural Areas Programme. The aim of the latter is to bring -about 
a progressive increase in the output of certain crops in the selected areas by an 
Intensive and co-ordinated use of various aids to production, on the lines of the 
Package Programme, but with a lower degree of Intensity in respect of staffing 
pattern for supervision, establishment of soil testing laboratories, seed testing 
centres, Implement workshop, etc, The Regional Agricultural Production Con- 
ference convened by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to consider the effective 
implementation of the programme endorsed the need for active efforts to reorganise 
and strengthen the credit structure in the States on the lines suggested in the 
proposed action programme, so that the agricultural programme, so that the 
agricultural programme could be assured of effective credit support, 

94. The recommendations of the Committee on Taccavi Loans and Co-operative 
"Credit, to which a reference was made in previous year’s Report, have b$en 
accented by the Government of India and forwarded to the State Governments 
for their adoption. Except in Maharashtra and Gujarat where the State Govefn- 
rnents had already taken a decision to withdraw in favour of the cooperative 
agency from the field of long-term taccavi in respect of certain schemes of develop- 
ment and in Madhya Pradesh where taccavi loans are , channelled through the 
-co-operative structure, the beneficiaries of such loans being made nominal 
-members, no State Government appears to have so far fully implemented the 
-recommendations. 

95. The Government of India had appointed in May 1963 a Study Group tn 
examine the working of co-operatives in the non-agricultural credit sector dnd 
to suggest measures for their sound and soeedy growth, The Study Group which 
submitted its reriort in December 1963 recommended, inter alia, the adoption of 
a uniform definition of urban co-operative banks, the establishment of one such 
"bank in each town having a population of over one lakh and diversifleatloh of 
their loaning activities with emphasis on advances for industrial purposes. 

T6. The Bank continued to give special attention to the development of hand- 
loom finance. The ad hoc Advisory Committee on Handloom Finance met once 
during the year to discuss the problems relating to the provision of finance to 
weavers’ Societies and to review the progress made in the working of the pilot 
scheme, It was observed that progress was not satisfactory in most States and 
-that one of the difficulties was the lack of adequate staff, both technical and 
^administrative, With a view to ensuring a proper understanding of the scheme. 



3786 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part li- 


the Bank organised, a Seminar in November 1963 at Salem in Madras State, which 
was attended by the special officers in charge of the scheme, executives of central 
financing institutions and representatives of the apex weavers’ co-operative 
societies. A programme of action was agreed upon at the Seminar to rationalise 
the scheme, 

97. In the context of the development of industrial co-operatives, the Bank 
made it known that, as both the agricultural and non- agricultural sectors were 
to be financed by the central financing agencies, the Bank would regard the 
employment by the central banks of their resources from owned funds and 
deposits for financing non-agricultural activity as a legitimate use of their funds- 
and would take such commitments into consideration in assessing their needs of 
outside borrowing for agricultural purposes. 

98. In pursuance of the recommendations of the Conference of State Level 
Officers in charge of Co-operation Statistics held at New Delhi in April 1963, short- 
period orientation courses for such officers were conducted by the Bank during 
January-February 1964. Apart from reviewing the position regarding the staff 
and other organisational arrangements for the collection and comoilation of co- 
operatives statistics at various levels in each State, the participants also discussed 
the draft of a manual dealing with the terms and concepts used in the statistical 
statements. 

99. A seminar lor the chief executive officers of the State co-operative banka 
was convened by the Bank at Madras from July 29; to August 8, 1963. It was 
attended by the representatives of all the State co-operative banks in the country 
except those of Andhra Pradesh and the Punjab. The seminar, the first of its- 
kind, was found to be useful inasmuch as it provided an opportunity to these- 
participants to discuss their problems not only among themselves but also with 
the officers of the Bank and representatives of other institutions, such as the State- 
Bank of India, the Refinance Corporation for Industry, the Agricultural Refinance- 
Corporation and the Central Warehousing Corporation. The difficulties experienc- 
ed by the State co-operative banks in operating on the credit limits sanctioned 
by the Reserve Bank wer^ also cleared up. 

Agricultural Refinance Corporation 

109. The Agricultural Refinance Corporation, an agency for refinancing 
medium and long-term credits granted by eligible financial institutions for agri- 
cultural development schemes, commenced operations on July 1, 1983. The 
Corporation framed their rules of business, the procedures to be followed in 
applying for refinance and the terms and conditions attached thereto. According" 
to the Corporation’s Act, the term ‘agricultural development' extends, besides 
agriculture, to the development of animal husbandry, dairy farming, poultry 
farming, piggery, fisheries, etc. An agricultural development scheme to be 
eligible for accommodation from the Corporation should, besides being economic- 
ana business-Jike, aim at increasing production. The schemes should be druwni 
up for specified areas and for certain specified crops, as well as be compact and 
composite in form, so as to be susceptible to close and Intensive supervision and 
evaluation. The State Government’s involvement is expected not only at the 
stage Of formulation of the scheme but also at the various stages of its imple- 
mentation, Medium-term loans granted by the Corporation will be fojr a period 
ranging from 3 to 6 years, while the long-term loans for the time being will be 
limited to IB years ; in exceptional cases, however, their duration may be extend- 
ed to 20 years. In terms of Its statute, the financial accommodation provided 
by the Corporation, should be guaranteed by the State Government both in regard - 
to repayment of the principal and payment of interest. This condition may, how- 
ever, be waived where 'other security' to the satisfaction of the Board of the 
Corporation is provided. In order to ensure that the State Governments have a 
demonstrable interest in all such schemes, a 25 per cent contribution, which is 
relaxable in appropriate cases, to the special development debentures that may- 
be floated by the central land mortgage banks for financing special development 
schemes, is Insisted upon. 

101. The Corporation has fixed its lending rate at 5-1/2 per cent for all types 
of financial assistance provided by it and the minimum amount of financial assis- 
tance that can be obtained from it by way of reftnance/loan at Rs, 1 lakh. So 
far, the Corporation has approved four schemes relating to reclamation and 
development of land under the Kurnool-Cuddapah Canal, Kaddam and Nagarjun- 
aagar Projects In Andhra Pradesh and to development of account plantations in 
Orissa State, involving a total financial outlay of Rs. 0-38 crores. The commit- 
ments of the Corporation and concerned State Governments in respect of these- 



JK-. j(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3 J &7 


schemes are of the order of Rs. 5 -74 crores and Rs. 64 lakhs, respectively. Deve- 
lopment schemes from some other States have also been received and are under 
various stages of consideration, 

i!V. EDUCATION AND TRAINING OF BANKING PERSONNEL, 

102. The Reserve Bank, as in the past, has been taking an active part in the 
promotion of efficient techniques and procedures and the improvement of the 
quality and standards of banking personnel. It has, over the past decade, been 
sponsoring and organising appropriate training courses for different categories 
of .personnel of commercial and co-operative banks and, more recently, for its own 
staff. It is gratifying to note that the Bank's lead in this direction has been 
followed by several commercial banks which have established, either individually 
or in collaboration with other banks, training establishments to impart traihing 
in elementary and advanced banking to their staff. 

103. The Bankers’ Training College, which was established in 1954 fpr itnpart- 
ing training in practical banking to the supervisory staff of the commercial banks, 
conducted during the year four senior courses, four intermediate courses and one 
course in foreign exchange, in which 248 officials of the commercial banks parti- 
cipated. Since its establishment, the College has so far conducted 44 senior 
courses in which 1,146 officers have received training. The intermediate course, 
which was introduced in 1960, imparted training so far to 396 officers of the 
commercial banks who were, so to say, second in command of the respective 
offices. Training in foreign exchange courses which commenced from September 
1962, is mainly availed of by the officials of the Indian banks who are participat- 
ing in foreign exchange business. So far, 42 candidates have received training. 
As regards industrial finance courses, 20 candidates drawn from various State 
Financial Corporations and commercial banks received training during the year, 
thus r aisin g the total number of trained candidates so far to 90. 

104. While the study of the various aspects and problems of ‘management' 
has, in recent years, received increased attention in the field of industry, trade and 
commerce, it has not received adequate attention in the field of ‘banking’, parti- 
cularly in the aspects relating to operational efficiency and personnel manage- 
ment. It was, therefore, felt that it would he advantageous to arrange for the 
executives of banks a special course in ‘Staff Management in Banks’, which will 
mainly cover problems relating to personnel management. The Advisory Cotincil 
of the Bankers’ Training College approved of the proposal at Its meeting held 
on November 28, 1963. The first course, which will be of four weeks’ duration, 
ia proposed to be held in August 1964. 

108. With the transfer from July 1, 1962 of the administration of the training 
scheme for co-operative personnel to the Committee for Co-operative Training 
set up by the National Co-operative Union of India, the Reserve Bank Is no longer 
directly concerned with the administration of any co-opera tivo training centre. 
The Bank is, however, represented on that Committee. The Committee of the 
National Co-operative Union of India has recently Introduced a special Cbttrse 
in co-operative banking. During the two years 1962-64, 701 candidates thorn 
co-operative Institutions received- training (70 in senior officers’ course, 297 in 
intermediate officers’ course, 89 in co-operative marketing course, 88 in the land 
mortgage banking course, 84 in industrial co-operation course, 26 in co-operative 
banking course and 47 in the refresher courses). The Agricultural Credit Depart- 
ment of the Bank continued to provide facilities for study to Registrars of Co- 
operative Societies and other senior officers of co-operative departments of State 
Governments. 

I 

106. With the continuous increase in its staff, the Bank decided to 'establish 
regular training courses for different categories of its own staff. In the past two- 
years, Zonal Training Centres have been established at Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, 
Madras and Nagpur for imparting training to junior clerical staff i.e. new entrants 
as well as those who have been in Bank’s service for some years. So far, 249 
‘new entrants’ and 583 clerks in service have received training at the centres, 
Arrangements are now in hand for starting a slightly advanced course for the 
senior clerical staff. A reference was made in the previous year’s Report to the- 
arrangements for the establishment of a Staff Training College at Madras for 
training tile junior supervisory staff of the Bank, i.e., sub-accountants and junior 
officers grade It The college, which is residential institution, started functioning 
in August 1963 and conducted four courses during the year, each of 8 weeks” 
duration, at which 180 trainees (42 junior officers grade II, 129 sub-accountants 



3788 the gazette of India : September is, 1964/bhadra 28, i88s [Part p ~ 


>and 9 assistants) received training in basic theoretical and practical aspects of 
the organisation and operations of the Bank. 

* Kj-n Reserve Bank, in keeping with its traditions of extending assistance 
to officials from emerging countries, afforded the facilities for study, training 
and observation to the Deputy Governor-designate, Central Bank of Sierra 
Jjeone (West Africa) as well as the Assistant Manager, Jordan Co-operative 
Central Union, Jordan. 

V. ACCOUNTS AND OTHER MATTERS 

108. During the accounting year 1963-04, the Bank's income, after making 
statutory and other provisions which were of a substantially larger order, 
uglfregated Rs. 52 22 crores, as against Rs. 56 05 crores in -the previous year. 
But for the larger appropriations, income would have actually shown a rise In, 
the current year stemming mainly from a rise in interest earnings on rupee 
securities and discount on treasury bills. The expenditure, which included 
establishment expenses and provision for sundry liabilities and contingencies, 
amounted to Rs. 12'22 crores as against Rs, 11-55 crores in 1902-63, showing a 
rise of Rs. 67 lakhs over the year. Thus, mainly because of the larger appro- 
priations, the net profits available for transfer to the Central Government were 
somewhat lower ax Rs. 40 crores as compared to Rs. 44-5 crores in 1G82-03. 

109. Under appropriations, a sum of Rs. 10 crores was set aside from the 
Income for the creation of the National Industrial Credit (Long-term Operations) 
Fund with effect form July 1, 1964, in terms of Section 46 C of the- Reserve Bank 
of India Act as introduced by the Industrial Development Bank of India Act, 
1964. The contribution to the National Agricultural Credit (Long-term opera- 
tions) Fund was further stepped up in the current year to Rs. 13 crores as against 
Rs. 12 crores in the previous year, in order to provide for the rising draft on 
this Fund, while the transfer to the National Agrlculturl Credit (Stabilisation) 
Fund was maintained at Rs. 1 crore as in 1962-63. 

110. The rise of Rs- 67 lakhs in expenditure was noticed largely under the 
head ‘Establishment’ and ‘Agency Charges’, Under ‘Establishment’ the rise was 
a Sequel to the increments granted to the staff in the time of pay and the dear- 
ness allowance paid at enhanced rates to ‘Award Staff owing to the persistent 
rise in the cost of living index. A part of the increase was also due to the 
opening of the Byculla Office from September 2, 1963. The rise in ‘Agency 
Charges’ was due to increase in commission paid to the State Bank of India and 
its subsidiaries on account of larger ' turnover of Government transactions. 

Auditors 

111. The Accounts of the Bank have been audited by Messrs. S. B. Billimoria 
opd Co. of Bombay, Messrs. P. K. Ghosh and Co. of Calcutta and Messrs. Sastrx 
and Shah of Madras, who were appointed bv the Government of India as 
auditors of the Bank by Notification No, F 3(21)-BC/03 dated October 15, 1963 
Issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 50 of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act 

The Central Board 

112. Shri M. R. Bhlde was appointed as a Depuaty Governor of the. Bank for 
a period of five years from the close of business on February 29, 1964 vice Prof. 
D q. .Karve whose term expired on that date. The Board wish to acknowledge 
the valuable services rendered by Prof, Karve as Deputy Governor of the Bank. 
Dr. B. K. Madan was appointed as a Deputy Governor for a period of five years 
from July 1, 1964, The Central Government also nominated Sarvashri A. N. 
Mafatlal, G. Basu, H. P. Nanda and JVT. Sudarsana m as Directors of the Central 
Board in terms of Section 8(1) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act with effect 
from July 1, 1964. Shri S. Bhoothalingam, I.C.S., was nominated as a Director 
of the Central Board in terms of Section 8(1) (d) of the Act with effect from 
August 13 1964 vice Shri L. K. Jha, I.C.S, The Central Board regret to record 
the demise of Shri K. C. Mahindra. a Director of the Bank, on October 31, 1903. 
In the vacancy, Shri N. A, - Palkhivala was nominated by the Government of 
of India in terms of Section 12(4) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 as 
a Director of the Central Board. Director Col, B. H. Zaidi resigned from the 
Central Board of the Bank with effect from December 12, 1903, consequent on 
his nomination as member of the Rajya Sabha from Uttar Pradesh. - The vacancy 
was filled by the Central Government bv nominating Prof. M. Mujeeb. Sarvashri 
J. R. D. Tata nnd G. Parameswaran Pillal retired as Directors of the Central 



Ac. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, I964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3789 


Board of the Bank on expiry of their term of office on January 14, 1904, The 
vacancies were filled by the Central Government by the nomination of Sarva- 
shri P. L. Tandon and K. Sreenivasan, respectively, as Directors of the Central 
Board in terms of Section 8(1) (C) of the Reserve Bank Act. The Board wish 
to place on record their high appreciation of the services rendered by the out- 
going directors as ■well as by the late Shri K. C. Mahindra during their associa- 
tion with the Bank. 

113. Seven meetings of the Central Board were held during the year, three 
of which were in Bombay, two in Calcutta and one each in New Delhi and Madras. 
'The Committee of the Central Board held fifty-two meetings, of which two each 
were in Calcutta and New Delhi, one in Madras and the rest in Bombay. 


Local Boards 

114. Shrl A. N. Mafatlal resigned his membership of the Western Area Local 
Board and in terms of sub-section 3 of section 12 of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, the vacancy was filled by the Central Board by the nomination of Shri K. 
Mahindra with effect from August 22, 1964. 

Opening and Closing of Offices or Branches by the Reserve Bank 

116. Following the rapid expansion in the note issue in the past few years, 
ihe issue office at Bombay has been finding it difficult to cope up with the pressure 
•of work connected with the supply of fresh notes, withdrawal of soiled notes, 
withdrawal and supply of coins, etc. To relieve this pressure as well os to 
provide additional space for the continuously increasing staff of the other depart- 
ments housed in Bombay, the Bank had taken up the construction of an office 
building at Byculla, Bombay-8. With the completion of the building, a branch 
ot the Bank was opened at Byculla on September 2, 1963 which comprises the 
Issue Department, the Public Accounts Department, the Prize Bonds Section 
(Central) and the Bombay Regional Office of the Department of Banking Opera 
tions Consequent on opening of this branch, the currency jurisdiction of tb‘- 
•erstwhile Bombay Issue Circle has been apportioned between the Bombay (Fort 
•office and Byculla branch.* 

116. In consultation with the Government of India the Bank’s office in London, 
which was set up in October 1935, was closed as at the close of business on 
September 30, 1963, and its functions have now been transferred to the State 
Bank’s office m London which will discharge these functions, in direct relation- 
ship with the High Commissioner for India in London or to the extent this is 
necessary, as the Reserve Bank’s agent. The London Office of the Bank was 
•established in conditions which are no longer applicable, and it was felt that the 
•continuance of this office was no longer necessary. 


Bank’s Premises 

117. Further progress was made in the construction of office buildings at 
Calcutta, Kanpur and Patna, the plan for new office building at Bangalore has 
been finalised and construction work Is expected to commence soon. The plans 
of the office buildings at Chandigarh are under preparation by the Government 
of Punjab to whom the construction work has been entrusted. Land has 
been acquired for construction of office buildings at Hyderabad and Bhubaneswar 
and steps are under way to acquire lands for the establishment of integrated and 
full-fledged offices in Gauhati, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Bhopal and Trivandrum. 

118, The construction of a Staff Colony at Santa Cruz. Bombay which com- 
menced In November 1962 is in progress and the work of the Staff Colony at 
Singhi Park, Calcutta is expected to start shortly. 


•Bombay (Fort) Office: Greater Bombay, as defined in clause (2) of Section 
2 of the Greater Bombay Laws and Bombay High Court (Declaration of Limits) 
Act, 1945, and Byculla branch: the districts of Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Bhir, 
Kolaba, Kolhapur, Nanded, Nasik, Osmanabad, Parbhanl, Poona, Ratnagiri, 
Sangli, Satara, Sholapur, and Thana in the State of Maharashtra, the State or 
Gujarat, and Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Goa, Daman and 
Diu. I 



LIABILITIES 


Rs. P. 

Notes held in the Banking De- 
partment . . . 30,69,73,849-00 

Notes in circulation . . 2490,21,42,130-00 

Total Notes issued 


Total Liabilities 


RESERVE BANK OP INDIA 

Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1964 
Issue Department 

ASSETS 


Rs. P. Rs. P. Rs. P. 

Gold Coin and Bullion: — 

(a) Held in India . 117,76,10478,87 

( b ) Held outside India . 

2520,91453979' 00 Foreign Securities . 8945,68,923-08 

Tot At, . 207,2 1,79401 • 9 5 

Rupee Coin . 102,67,39,739 88 

Government of India 

Rupee Securities . 2211,01,96^37' 17 

Internal Bills of Exchange 
and Other f.ommencal 
Paper ... 

2520,91,15,979-00 Total Assets . 2520,91,15,979 00 



—jj x*vd] 98§i ‘85 vapypa/i-961 ‘ei :,viaNi JQ. ahHazvf) 2 hl 



BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Capital paid up ... 

Reserve Fund 
National Agricultural Credit 
(Long-term Operations) Fund 
National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund 

Deposits : — 

(а) Government 

(i) Central Government 
(it) State Governments 

(б) Banks 

(t) Scheduled Banks 

(u) State Co-operative Banks 
(id) Other Banks 

(e) Others 
Bills Payable 
Other Liabilities 


Rs. P. Rs. P. 

54040400-00 Notes 30^9,73,849-00 

804040400-00 Rupee Coin i,53)359'Oo 

Small Coin . . , . . . . 2,49,192-26 

864040400-00 National Agricultural Cre di t 

(Long term Operations) Fund 
94040400-00 (a) Loans and Advances to : — 

(0 State Governments . . . 28,30,29,500-54 

(u) State Co-operative Banks . . . 13,00,32,958 00 

(tit) Central Land Mortgage 


15,9049475 ■ 36 (S) Investment in Central Land Mortgage 

Bank Debentures 4,08,82,980 ■ 00 

National Agricultural Credit 
88,704*1,835-34 (Stabilisation) Fund 


14,8349^860-72 Loars and Advances to State Co-operative Banks 


3,55,307 -49 Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 

: 90,15, 5L743 ' 70 (a) Internal 

2540,55477 '46 ( b ) External 

48,9140,127 -70 (e) Government Treasury Bills . . , 4345,33496 63 

Balances held Abroad* ..... 743,23,131 93 

Loans and Advances to Governments ** 32,764040000 

Loans and Advances to: — 

• (*) Scheduled Banks! .... 1,85,50000 00 

(it) State Co-operative Banks ft . . . 151,82,20,079 00 

(w) Others 1,79,3 5/»o 00 

Investments! 288,38,95405 60 

Other Assets 400041,386-74 


Total Liabilities 


643,33,99,938 ■ 70 


Total Assets 


643,33.99,938-70 


Contingent liability on partly paid shares Rs. 446^6*666-67 P. (including Sterling Investments of £ 504x0/- converted @ 1 sh. 6 d.). 

•Includes Cash and Short-tenn Securities. ••Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agrkarfaural Credit (Long-term Operations) 
Fund, tjbicludes Rs. Mil advanced to scheduled Banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
tf Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation) Fund. §Inchtdes £269418-15-0 and U, S. $ 1402,500 held abroad. 

P. C. BHATTACHARYYA, Governor. 

M. V. RANGACHARI, Deputy Governor, 

N. D. NANGIA; C. S. DIVEKAR, Deputy Governor, 

Chief AcccunUmt M. R. BHIDE, Deputy Governor. 

Dated, the 23rd July, 1964, B. K. MAD AN, Deputy Governor. 




S*c. 3(E)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 19M/BHADRA 28. 



Profit and Loss Account 




FOR 

THE YEAR 

ENDED 



June 30, 1964 June 30, 1963 

June 30, 1962 

INCOME 


Rs. P. 

Rs. P. 

Rs. P. 

Interest, Discount, Exchange, Commissions, etc.t 

. 

52,22,24,259 '20 

5645,13^9990 

53,97,62,586-37 

EXPENDITURE 





Establishment 

Directors & Local Board Members’ Fees & Expenses 

Auditor’s Fees 

Rent, Taxes, Insurance, Lighting etc 

Law Charges 

Postage and Telegraph Charges .... 

Remittance of Treasure ...... 

Stationery, etc. 

Security Printing (Cheque, Note Forms, etc.) 

Depreciation and Repairs to Bank Property . 

Agency Charges ... 

Contributions to Staff and Superannuation Funds 
Miscellaneous Expenses ...... 

Net available, balance ..... 



641,15,966-48 
5I,779-58 
30,000 00 
30,04,208-01 
23,106-53 
4,64,130-34 
43,01,677 74 
13,02,036 15 

1,92,64,230 28 
46,03,917 -86 
240,25,581-33 
7,32,000 00 

2345411 27 
. 404040,51363 

5,83,65,390 04 
50,169 16 
30400 00 
2745,869-39 
7,728-94 
5,64495 64 
36,73,705-50 
11,68475 '43 
2,12,55449-59 
43,85413 93 
24240,501-68 
7,32400 00 
23,54,658 ■ 18 
44,5041442-42 

4,66,39,18156 
50464 04 
3040 0 00 
27,82,335 '45 
14642081 
448,668 ' 18 
3840,914-12 
11,12,908-92 
248,04,502-74 
51,19,591-89 
i, 7744,5 i6 '77 
7,32400 00 
33,30,368-90 
43,5040,912-9 9 


Total 

. 5242,24459 '20 

5645,13,899-90 

53,97,62,586-37 

Surplus payable to the Central Government 

Balance Carried Forward ...... 

..... 

. 404040,513 ■ 63 

Nil 

44,5041442 ’42 
Nil 

43,50,00,912 99 
Nti 


Total 

404040,513 ’ 63 44,5041442 ' 42 

43,5040,91299 


3792 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 



Rbsbh ve Fund Account 


Rs. p. 


By balance on June 30, 1964 .......... . 80,00,00,000 - 00 

By transfer from Profit and Loss Account ......... Nil 

Total 80,00^)0,000 00 


fAfter making usual or necessary provisions in terms of Section 47 of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

P. a BHATTACHARYYA, 
M. V. 

' C- s. 

N. D- NANGIA, M. R. 

Chief Accountant. B. K. 


REPORT OF THE AUDITORS. 


RANGACHARI, Deputy 
DIVBKAR, Deputy 

BHIDE, Deputy 

MADAM, Deputy 


Governor. 

Governor. 

Governor. 

Governor. 

Governor. 


TO THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA, 

We, the undersigned Auditors of the Reserve Bank of India, do hereby report to the Central Government upon the Balance Sheet and Accounts of 
the Bank as at 30th June, 1964. 

We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the Accounts, Certi fi cates and Vouchers relating thereto of the Central Office and of the offices at 
Calcutta, Bombay and Madras and with the Returns submitted and certified by the Managers of the other Offices and Branches which Returns 
are incorporated in the above balance Sheet, and report that where we have called for explanations and information from the Central Board such 
information and explanations have been given and have been satisfactory. In our opinion, the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet 
containing the particulars prescribed by ana in which the assets have been valued in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India, Act, 1934 and 
the Regulations framed thereunder and is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs 
according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books of the Bank. 

. S. B. BILLIMORIA & Co., ] 

P. K, GHOSH AND CO., 1- Auditors 

Dated the 23rd July, 1964. SASTRI AND SHAH J 

[No. F.3(5i)BC;'64.J 

R. K. SESHADHRI 
Director (Banfdng and Insurance) 

4-9-t964 


CORRIGENDUM 


In the Statement of Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India Banking Department 
as on the 7th August 1964 published in the Gazette of India dated the 29th August 
1964 Part II Section 3(ii) on page 3315 on the '‘Liabilities” side for the amount 
5)4,83,08.000 indicated against item (b) (i) under the heading Banks read 94,83,38,000. 


SEC. 5 {UJ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19 , 1964 /BHADRA 33 , 1886 3793,. 


3 794 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 188ft [Paw 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1964 

S.O. 3320, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 and 
clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, the President, after consultation with 
the Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving In the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
“the Civil Pensions (Commutation) Rules, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Civil Pensions (Commutation) (First Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1964. i 

2. In the Civil Pensions (Commutation) Rules,— 

(1) In rule 2-A, after the words “who draw pension outside India", the 

words, brackets letter and figure "as mentioned in clause (d) of rule 6” 
shall be inserted; 

t 

(2) for rule 6, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“5. .Applications shall be addressed — 

(a) if the applicant is still in service, or has retired but his pension has 

not yet been sanctioned, to the sanctioning authority through the 
head of the -office in which he is or was employed, or, if he Is or 
Was himself the head of the office, through the head of his Depart- 
ment; and- the application shaH be sent forthwith to the Accounts 
Officer concerned; 

(b) in the case of a pensioner who draws his pension in India, to the 

sanctioning authority through the Accounts Officer of the State In 
which the treasury from which the pensioner draws his pension. 
Is situated; 

(c) in the case of a pensioner who draws his pension abroad from a 

foreign Government which has a direct account current with an 
Accountant General in India, or from an India Mission or Em- 
bassy, to the sanctioning authority through the Accounts Officer 
who Issued the warrant for payment of tne pension; 

(d) in the case of a pensioner who draws his pension in the United 

Kingdom or in a foreign country which has no direct account 
current with an Accountant General in India, to the High Com- 
missioner for India in the United Kingdom, through the officer 
authorised to pay the pension of that pensioner"; 

(3) for rule 7, the following rule shall be substituted namely: — 

"7. The lump sum payable on commutation shall be calculated In accord- 
ance with a table of present values prescribed by the President from 
time to time. For the purpose of this rule, the age in the of impah> 
ed lives shall be assumed to be such age, not being less than the 
actual age, as the certifying medical authority may direct. In the 
event of the table of present values applicable to an applicant having 
been modified between the date of administrative sanction to com- 
mutation and the date on which commutation Is due to become 
absolute, payment shall be made in accordance with the table so 
modified; but it shall be open to the applicant, if the table so modi- 
fied is less favourable to him than the table before It was so modi- 
fied to withdraw his application by notice in writing sent within 14 
days of the date on which he receives notice of the modification"; 

(4) for rule 9, the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“9, The lump sum. In cases in which application is addressed to the sanc- 
tioning authority under clause (a) or clause (b) of rule 5, shall be 
payable in India in rupees only. In other cases, it shall be payable 
at the office through which pension is drawn; the rate of exchange 
for conversion of the lump sum, where the question of conversion 
arises, shall be such rate as the President may by order prescribe." 


[No. F. 2(4)-EV(B)/64.1 
C. K. SUBRAMANIAN, Under Secy. 




SIC, 9(1$. TH$ GAjCETTjE, OF INpiA : SEPTEMBER IB, l^H/BIfADRA 28, 18pfl, 3795 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


Incomb Tax 


Next) Delhi, the 7th September, 1964 

1 ® xerci se of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
122 of the Incometax Act, 1961, (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Schedule appended to its 
notification S.O. 2581 (No, 48-Incometax dated 24th July, 1904), dated 1st August, 
1904, namely:— 


- J n ,9’ e ™ sa ’ < ^ Schedule against ‘A’ Range, Ahmedabad. and ‘B’ Range, Ahmeda- 
?*?' f B® n g e . Ahmedabad, Surat. “B’ Range, Baroda, under column 2, the 
following shall be substituted, namely— 


‘A’ Range, Ahmedabad. 


1. Group Circle 1(1), Ahmedabad. 

2. Group Circle 1(2), Ahmedabad, 

3. Group Circle 11(1), Ahmedabaa, 

4. Circle V, Ahmedabad. 


tB’ Range, Ahmedabad. 


*C’ Range, Ahmedabad. 


Surat. 


A’ Range, Baroda. 


5. Circle X, Ahmedabad. 

6 . Surrendranagar. 

7. JPalahpur. 

1. Group Circle 11(2), Ahmedabad. 

2. Group Circle III(l), Ahmedabad. 

3. Group Circle HI ( 2 ), Ahmedabad. 

4. Group Circle 1(3), Ahmedabad . 1 

8 . Group Circle III (3), Ahmedabad. 

6 . Circle I Companies Ward, Ahmedabad. 

7. Central Circle. c ' 

8 . Special Investigation Circle-A, Alunedabad. 

9. Special Investigation Circle-B, Ahmedabad. 
10 . Circle IL Ahmedabad. > 

11,. Circle VIII, Ahmedabad. 

12. Circle III, Ahmedabad. 

13. Mehsana. 

1*. Pa tan. 

t. Circle IV, Ahmedabad. 

2. Circle IX, Ahmedabadf. 

3. Circle I, Ahmedabad. 

4. Circle V7, Ahmedabad. 

8 . Circle VII, Ahmedabad. 

1. Circle I. Surat. 

2. Circle II, Surat. 

3. Navsari Circle. 

4. Bulsar Circle. 

5. Broach Circle- 

1. Circle II, Baroda, 

2 . Petlad, 

3. Nadlad Circle I. 

4. Nadiad Circle II. 


Explanatory Note. 

The amendments have become necessary on account of re-organisation and 
redesignation of some circles in the C.I.T., Gujarat’s charge. 

CDie above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarlflcatory) . 


[No. 60 (F. No. 50/6/04-ITJ.] 
T. N. PANDKY, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, BARODA 

Manufactured Products 
Baroda, the 17th August . 1964 

„ S.O. 3322.— In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I empower the Sub-Inspectors of Central Excise 



THll GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1^64/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Past II- 


posted at check-posts in Baroda Collectorate to exercise the powers under Rule- 
200 oi the Central Excise Rules, 1944, in respect of Manufactured Products. 

2. This has reference to this Collectorate Notification No. 2/63 dated 31st 
August, 1963, issued under this office letter No, IV/16-58/MP/63, dated 3rd 
September, 1963. 

[No. 3/64-]. 
D. R. KOHLI, Collector. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 7th September, 1964 

S.O. 3323. — Whereas the State of Madhya Pradesh held shares in the All India 
Handlooni Fabrics Marketing Society Ltd., Bombay and the Hind Alco Ltd., 
Bombay, prior to the commencement of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (37 
of 1956); 

And whereas on the commencement of the States Reorganisation Act, 1966, the 
State of Bombay became entitled to share the aforesaid shares with the State of 
Madhya Pradesh by virtue of the provisions of Part VII of the said Act; 

And whereas the State- of Bombay has made a . reference to the Central Gov- 
ernment under section 92 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, with regard to- 
the aforesaid shares; 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it just and equitable- 
that the said shares shall be shared by the State of Madhya Pradesh with the 
State of Bombay; 

And whereas in place of the State of Bombay, two States, namely, Gujarat and 
Maharashtra, have come into eidstence by virtue of the provisions of the Bombay 
Reorganisation Act, 1960, (11 of 1960); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 92 of the States 
Reorganisation Act, 1956, read with section 64 of the Bombay Reorganisation Act, 

196,0, the Central Government hereby directs — 

(a) that the shares held by the State of Madhya Pradesh in the aforesaid 

Companies prior to the commencement of the States Reorganisation 
Act, 1956, and the dividends, if any, received thereon on or after the 
commencement of the said Act, shall be shared by the States of 
Madhya Pradesh and Bombay in the ratio of 64-20 : 35-80; and 

(b) thereafter the shares acquired by the State of Bombay in the afore- 

said Companies shall be divided between the States of Maharashtra 
and Gujarat in the ratio of 66 -31 : 33 • 69. 

[No. F. 7/33/59-SR(R) .] 
K. R. PRABHU, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 


(Department of Mines and Metals) 


New Delhi, the 9th September 1964 


S.O. 3324. — In pursuance of clause 4 of the Colliery Control Order, 1945, as con- 
tinued In force by section 16 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), 
the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Heavy En- 
gineering (Department of Mines and Metals) No. S.O. 1997 dated the 5lh June, 1064, 
namely; — 


In the said notification, in "Note 2” under "Table III— Collieries situated within 
the State of Assam", for the words, figures and brackets "A sum of Rs. 5/- per ton 
of 2,240 pounds (Rs. 4.92 per tonne of 1,000 kilograms)”, against the entry "Nazira 
Coal Company Limited, Borgan”, the words, figures and brackets "A sum of 
Rs. 6,90 per ton of 2,240 pounds (Rs. 6.79 per tonne of 1.000 kilograms)” shall be 


substituted. 


[No. C5-12(5)/60.]| 
K. SUBRAHMANYAN, Under Secy. 


Sec, THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1884 379 , 


(Department of Iron and Steel) 

CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 11th September, 1064 

S.O. 3325. — In the Department Notification No. SC(A)-2(16)/63, dated the 
29th April 1904 published in Part II, Section 3 (ii) of the Gazette of India, dated 
the 8 th May, 1904. 

Under West Bengal : 

( 1 ) The existing entry at SI. No. 15 may be substituted with the following : — 

15 . District Agricultural Officers appoint- 4 , 5 , 18 and 20 , (in so far as State’s Agri- 
ed by the Government of West Bengal. cultural Quota is concerned) and 24 (b), 

24 (c) and 24 (d) (in respect of Agricul- 
tural quota for ‘Scrap’ if such quota is 
separately allotted to the State), 

( 2 ) The entries in columns 2 and 3 at SI. Nos. 9 and 11 thereof may be deleted, 

[No. SC (I) -2(1) /64J 

S.O. 8328.— In the Schedule annexed to Department Notification No. SC(A)-2 
(10) /03, dated the 29th April, 1904, published in Part II, Section 3 (ii) of the 
Gazette of India dated the 9th May, 1984, 

Under OTHERS in Column 2, 

For 24. Secretary, Indian Central Committee, Bombay, 

Read 24. Secretary, Indian Central Cotton Committee, Bombay. 

[No. SC(I)-2(l)/64.] 
G. N. TANDON, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

(Robber Control) 

Neio Delhi, the 9th September, 1964 

S.O, 3327. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (3) 
of section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1947, (24 of 1947), read with sub-rule (3) of rule 
3 of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the Central Government hereby notifies that Shri 
K. C. Sankaranarayanan, former Secretary to the Government of Kerala, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Trivandrum (who had resigned his membership of the 
Rubber Board) having been renominated by the Government of Kerala as a 
member of that Board to represent the said Government in that Board, is hereby 
appointed as such member up to the 5th November, 1964, and directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 341, dated the 
23rd January, 1902, namely: — 

In the said notification, for item 5 and the entries relating thereto, the fol- 
lowing item and entries shall be substituted, namely: — 

“5. Shri K. C. Sankaranarayanan, nominated by the Government of 
Managing Director, Plantation Kerala to represent that Govern- 
Corporation of Kerala Limited, ment.’’. 

Kottayam. 

1 [No F. 15(2) Plant (B)/61.] 


S.O. 3328.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (3) 
of section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1947, (24 of 1947), read with sub-rule (3' of rule 
3 of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the Central Government hereby notifies that Shri 
A. K Kunhikannan Nambiar, Additional Secretary to the Government of Kerala 
(Agriculture), Agriculture and Rural Development Department, Trivandrum, 
having been nominated by the Government of Kerala as a member of the 
Rubber Board to represent the said Government in that Board in place of 
Shri K, S, Menon (who has resigned his membership of that Board), is hereby 



£ 79 g THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 


appolnted as such member up to the 5th November. 1964 and directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government 
of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 2696, dated the 
6th November, 1961, namely: — 

In the said notification, for item 2 and the entries relating thereto, the follow- 
ing Item and entries shall be substituted, namely: — 

“2. Shri A. K. Kunhikannan, Nambiar, nominated by the Government of 
Additional Secretary to the Kerala to represent that Govern- 

Government of Kerala, (Agri- ment-". 

culture) Agriculture and Rural 
Development Department, Tri- 
vandrum, 

[No. F. 15(2)Plant(B)/61.] 
B. KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 
(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 8 th September 1964 

S.O, 3319. — In pursuance of nub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended in 1961, 1962 and 1964 

the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standard(s), particulars of which 
are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been established during the period 12 AugUBt 
1964 to 7 September 1964. 


Thb Schedule 

SI. 

No. 

No- and Title of the Indian 
Standard Established 

No. and Title of the Indian 
Standard or Standards, if 
any, superseded by the new 
Indian Standard 

Brief Particulars 

( 1 ) 

(1) 

(3) 

(4) 


1 IS: 201-1964 Quality Tole- 
rances for Water for 
Textile Industry (Revised), 


IS : 201-1950 Methods of 
Analysis of and Toler- 
ances for Water for Tex- 
tile Purposes. 


This standard prescribes the 
quality tolerances for water 
for textile industry. (Price 
Re. i ■ 00). 


2 IS ■ 229-1964 Specification IS : 229-1957 Specification This standard prescribes the 

for Ethyl Acetate (Revised), for Ethyl Acetate. requirements and methods 

for test for ethyl acetate. The 
material is used mainly as 
a solvent by the paint and 
lacquer industry, and also 
for the manufacture of drugs, 
cosmetics and flavouring 
essences. (Price Rs. 3-50). 


3 IS : 300-1964 Specification 
for the National Flag of 
India (Silk Khadi) (Re- 
vised). 


IS : 300-1955 Specification 
for The National Flag of 
India (Silk Khadi). 


This standard prescribes the 
design, constructional details 
and other particulars of the 
National Flag of India (silk 
khadi) made of hand-spun 
and hand-woven silk khadi 
bunting. (Price Rs. 3.50). 


SBC. 8(H)) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1386 3799 


« (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


4 IS : 400-1964 Specification IS : 400-1955 Specification This standard prescribes the 
for The National Flap for The National Flag of design, constructional details 

of India (W ool Khadi) India (Wool Khadi). and other particulars of the 

( Revised ). National Flag of India (wool 

khadi) made of hand-spun 
and hand-woven wool khadi 
bunting. (Price Rs. 3 • 50) 


5 IS : 724-1964 Specification 
for Mild Steel and Brass 
Cup, Ruler and Square 
Hooks and Screw Eyes 
{Revised). 


IS : 724-1956 Specification 
for Mild Steel and Brass 
Cup. Ruler end Square 
Hooks and Screw Eyes. 


This standard layB down re- 
quirements for mild steel and 
brass cup, ruler and square 
hooks and screw eyes. (Price 
Rs. 3-00). 


6 IS : 938-1964 Specification IS : 938 i960 Specification This standard lays down the 
for 1 350-1/min. (OR foi 1 8oo-i/min. (Or 400- requirements regarding ma- 

300-gal/min.) Small Fire gal/min.) Small Fire Engine, terial, design and construc- 

Engine(R«eu«<f). tion, workmanship and finish 

accessories, special equipmen 
and acceptance tests 
for 1 350-1/min. (or 300-gal 
min) small fire engine. 
(Price Rs. 4-00). 


7 IS : 1269-1964 Specifica- 
tion for Metric, Woven 
Metallic and Glass Fibre 
Tape Measures {Revised). 


IS : 1269-1958 Specifica- 
tion for Metric, Woven 
Metallic Type Measures. 


This standard prescribes the 
requirements for metric, 
woven metallic and glass 
fibre tape measures intended 
for use where it is not possible 
to employ rigid measures of 
length. (Price Rs. 2- 00). 


8 IS : 1349-1964 Methods for 
Determination of Wool 
Fibre Content of Raw 
Wool {Revised). 


IS : 1349-1959 Method for 
Determination of Clean 
Wool Yield of Raw Wool. 


This standard prescribes 
methods for determination of 
clean wool fibre content and 
laboratory scoured yield of 
raw wool. (Price Rs. 2-50). 


9 IS i 1421-1964 Specification IS : 1421:1959 Specifics- This standard covers the re- 
Cellulose Nitrate Coated tion for Cellulose Nitrate quirements and the methods 

fabrics (Revised). Coated Fabrics. of test for the material com- 


10 IS : 2106 (Part VP1964 
Environmental Tests for 
Electronic Equipment 
Part V Low Air Pressure 
Test. 


11 IS : 2254-1964 Dimensions 
of Vertical Shaft Motors 
for Pumps. 


12 IS : 2500 (Part H-1963 
Sampling Inspection 
Tables Part I Inspection 
by Attributes and by 
Count of Defects. 


mercially known as cellulose 
nitrate coated fabrics mainly 
used for bookbinding and 
upholstery. (Price Rs. 3 - 50). 

This part of the standard gives 
details of the procedures for 
application of low air pres- 
sure test as part of the 
environmental testing of elec- 
tronic equipment and other 
equipment employing similar 
techniques. (Price Rs. 1 ■ 50). 

This standard covers the 
dimensional requirements of 
vertical, solid and hollow shaft 
motors for pumps. (Price Re 
i-oo) 

This standard provides tables 
of sampling Inspection plans 
for lot-by-lot inspection 
when the inspection is done 
by attributes or by count 
of defects. 


3800 -THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 1 SEPTEMBER- ,19, 1964/BHADRA 38, 1886 [Pait II- 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 


13 IS : 2506-1964 Specification 
for Screed Board Con- 
crete Vibrators. 


Different types of sampling 
plans expected to meet most 
of the practical situations are 
given. Besides, formulae arc 
given for the construction of 
one’s own sequential samp- 
ling plans. (Price Rs. 6- 00). 

This standard lays down the 
requirements for materials, 
Sizes, construction, assembly 
and performance of screed 
board concrete vibrators. 
Screed board vibrators ope- 
rated by pneumatic power 
are not covered in this 
standard. (Price Rs. 2-50). 


14 IS : 2582-1963 Dimensions 
for Type A and Type B 
Spindle Noses and Back 
Plates. 


This standard lays down the 
dimensions for Type A and 
Type B spindle noses and 
back plates used on engine 
lathes, tool room lathes, 
turret lathes and automatic 
lathes. 

The spindle noses conforming 
to this standard may also 
be used on other machines 
where chucks or fixtures 
are to be mounted accurately 
and rigidly on revolving 
spindle noses. (Price Rs. 
3'5°). 


15 IS : 2637-1964 Specification 
for Steel Roller Chains 
and Chain Wheels for 
Agricultural and Similar 
Machinery. 


This standard covers a range 
of steel roller chains dimen- 
sionally derived from the 
malleable iron type, suitable 
for conditions of operation 
and maintenance as pre- 
vailing in such fields as agri- 
culture, building, quarrying 
and similar machinery, me- 
chanical handling, etc., to- 
gether with the associated 
chain wheels. 

This standard also covers two 
types of attachment plates, 
namely, Ki and Mi. (Price 
Rs. 4 50). 


16 IS : 2641-1964 Specifica- 
tion for Electrical Weld' 
ing Accessories. 


This standard specifics the 
requirements and tests for 
electrical welding accessories. 
The accessories covered in 
this standard arc flexible 
cables, electrode holders, 
return current clamps and 
accessories for personal pro- 
tection. (Price Rs. 2'Oo). 



Sr.c, 5(ll)] THE GAZETTE OF ifcDIA ! SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1888 380 1 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


17 IS : 2643-1964 Dimensions 
for Pipe Threads for Fast- 
ening Purposes, 


18 IS 2661-1964 Specification 
for Librachine (Mobile 
Library). 


39 IS : 2664-1964 Specification 
for Quenching Oil. 


20 IS : 2666-1963 Specification 
for Slide Rules (Linear 
Type). 


at IS 1 2673-1964 Dimensions 
for Wrought Aluminium 
and Aluminium Alloys, 
Extruded Tube (Round). 


22 IS : 2676-1964 Dimensions 
for Wrought Aluminium 
and Aluminium Alloys, 
Sheet and Strip. 


23 IS : 2679-1964 Recom- 
mendations for Equip- 
ment for Electroplating. 


24 IS : 2680-1964 Specification 
for Filler Rods and Wires 
for inert Gas Tungesten 
Arc Welding. 


25 IS : 2681-1964 Specification 
for Non-ferrous Metal 
Sliding Door Bolts for use 
with Padlocks. 


This standard deals with the 
basic profile, design dimen- 
sions and tolerances of pipe 
threads for fastening pur- 
poses intended for mechani- 
cal assembly of components 
and where pressure tight 
joints arc not required on 
the threads. (Price Rs. 2.00). 

This standard covers the 
basic requirements of a 
lubrachinc (mobile library) 
with regard to its dimensions 
and layout of the interior. 
(Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements and methods 
of test for quenching oils 
(Price Rs, 2-50). 

This standard covers the 
requirements for the linear 
type slide rules used for 
various mathematical cal- 
culations. (Price Rs. 1-50). 


This standard lays down the 
dimensions and tolerances 
for wrought aluminium and 
aluminium alloys in the form 
of Extruded tube (round). 
(Price Rs, 1 50). 

This standard lays down the 
dimensions and tolerances for 
wrought aluminium and 
aluminium alloys in the 
form of sheet and strip (Price 
Rs. 2-50). 

This standard recommends the 
equipment required for pre- 
treatment of metallic surfaces 
and for processes used in 
electroplating. (Price. Rs 
3.00). 


This specification covers the 
requirements of a scries of 
ferrous and non-ferrous filler 
rods and wires for gas-shield- 
ed tungesten arc welding 
supplied either in cut lengths 
or in coils. (price Rs. 5.00) 


7 uuwji me 

requirements regarding mat- 
erial, dimensions, manuracture 
and finish of non-ferrous 
metal sliding door bolts, 
commonly used In general 
building construction, for 


locking doors, 
with padlocks. 
2 - 00 ). 


8 


:atcs, etc., 
Tice. R s , 




3802 'THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1 W 4 /BHADRA 28, 1883 [Past U- 


2 3 


26 IS : 2683-1964 Guide for 
Installation of Pressure 
Impregnation Plants for 
Timber. 


27 IS : 2684 (Part I) — 1964 Di- 
mensions of Electronic 
Valves Part I Miniature 
9-pin NqvsI Type. 



This standard specifies the 
essential requirements for 
installation of the following 
timber treatment plants and 
their accessories : 

(a) Pressure treatment plants 
with : 

(1) Oil type of preserva- 
tives, 

(2) Water soluble types 
of preservatives, and 

(b) Open tank plant for the 
treatment of timber by the 
hot and cold process. 
(Price Rs. 2-50). 

This standard (Part I) covers 
outlines of miniature receiv- 
ing valves, dimensions of 
small button noval type 9-pin 
base used with such valves 
aod dimensions of gauges 
suitable for checking the base 
dimensions. (Price Rs.x ■ 50). 


28 IS : 2694-1964 Specification 
for School Chalks, Mould- 
ed, White. 


29 IS : 2695-1964 Specification 
for Drawing Filing Equip- 
ment. 


30 IS : 2697-1964 Specification 
for Ammonium Bicarbo- 
nate for Food Industry. 


31 IS : 2698-1964 Specification 
for Leather Roller Skins. 


32 IS : 2699-1964 Specification 
for Flats and Flats’ Screws 


This standard specifies the 
requirements, methods of 
sampling and tests for mould- 
ed white school chalks intend- 
ed primarily for writing on 
blackboards. (Price Rs. 2.00). 

This standard lays down the 
dimensional and other re- 
quirements of filing equip- 
ment, such as plan chests, 
vertical filing equipment, lat- 
eral filing equipment for 
small drawings and roll 
files for large drawings. 
(Price. Rs. 3-50). 

This standard prescribes the re- 
quirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for 
ammonium bicarbonate for 
food Industry. (Price Rs. 
2-50). 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements for vegetable or 
chrome tanned leather roller 
skins used in the textile in- 
dustry for covering drafting 
rollers of draw, flyer and spin- 
ning frames. Methods of 
test for various physical 
characteristics of the leather 
roller skins are also included, 
(Price Rs. 2’ 50). 

This standard prescribes the 
essential requirements of 
flats and flats’ screws for 
UBe in revolving flat carding 
engine of 1016 mm width. 
(Price Rs. 1-50). 





Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1880 


3803 


1 


2 


3 


4 


33 IS : 2700-1964 Code of 
Practice for Roofing with 
Wooden Shingles. 


34 IS : 2701-1964 Specification 
for Brush, Carriage Wash- 
ing (Without Handle). 


35 IS : 2704-1964 Specification 
for Brass Wire for Cold 
Headed and Machined 
Parts, 


36 IS : 2706-1964 Specification 
for Batch Pasteurizer 
(Aluminium). 


37 IS : 2708-1964 Specification 
for 1 • j Percent Mangane- 
se Steel Castings. 


38 IS : 2710-1964 Specification 
for Parallel Keys and Key- 
ways for Machine Tools. 


39 IS : 2719-1964 Specification 
for Carrom Boards. 


40 IS : 2720 (Part II)— 1964 
Methods of Test for Soils 
Part II Determination of 
Moisture Content. 


41 IS : 2720 (Part VI)— 1964 
Methods of Test for Soils 
Part VI Determination of 
Shrinkage Factors. 


This standard covers the laying 
of wooden Bhingles for roof 
covering, and includes spe- 
cification for wooden smfig- 
les. (Price Rs. 2' 00). 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements and methods of 
test for brush, carriage wash- 
ing (without handle). (Price 
Rs. 2-00). 

This standard covers the 
requirements of brass wire for 
hardware such as nipples 
for cycle spokes, where cold- 
heading as well as machin- 
ing properties are required, 
either in cut lengths or in 
coils. (Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard prescribes the 
constructional details and 
dimensional requirements 
for aluminium batch paste- 
urizers of 500, 750 and 1,000 
litre capacities, the heating 
being done by ejecting steam 
into water. (Price Rs. 2-00)^ 

This standard covers the 
requirements for 1 ■ j percent 
manganese steel castings. 
(Price. Rs. 2-00). 

This standard covers dimen- 
sions and tolerances for paral- 
lel keys and keyways for 
machine tool elements suit- 
able for shaft diameter range 
10 mm to 170 mm, and the 
material for key bars. (Price 
Rs. 1 'So). 

This standard covers the 
material and certain construc- 
tional details of four sizes 
of carrom boards. Two 
grades have been specified in 
this standard. Where com- 
pete details arc not given, 
they are left to the discretion 
of the manutacturcr. (Price 
Rs. 1-50). 

This standard (Part II) lays down 
a method for determining 
the moisture contents of soils 
expressed as a percentage of 
the oven-dry weight under all 
conditions. (Price Rs. i-oo). 

This standard (Part VI) lays 
down the method of test for 
obtaining data from which 
the shrinkage limit, shrinkage 
ratio, volumetric shrinkage 
and linear shrinkage of soils 
may bo calculated. (Price 
Rs. 2-00), 



3804 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 


12 3 4 


42 IS : 2723-1964 Specification 
M f for Ammonium Bromide, 
- Pure and Analytical Re- 
agent. 


43 IS : 2724-1964 Quality Tol- 

erances for Waterfor Pulp 
and Paper Industry. 

44 IS : 2725-1964 Quality Tol- 

erances for water for 
Rayon-Manufacturing In- 
dustry. 

45 IS : 2727-1964 Method for 

Quantitative Chemical 
Analysis of Binary Mixtu- 
re of Manila and Sisal 
Fibres. 


46 IS : 2728-1964 Memoran- 
dum on Screw Threads 
for Bicycle Components. 


47 |IS : 2732-1964 Code of 
Practice for Poultry Hous- 
ing. 


48 J IS : 2734-1964 Code of 
Practice for Equine Hous- 
ing. 


This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the methods 
of test foe ammonium 
bromide pure and analytical 
reagent. The material is 
used in the preparation of 
silver bromide, in the chemi- 
cal industry and in medicine, 
and as an analytical reagent 
(Price, Rs. 3-00). 

ThiB standard prescribes the 
quality tolerances for water 
used in pulp and paper 
Industry. (Price. Rs. 100). 

This standard prescribes the 
quality tolerances for water 
used in rayon-manufacturing 
industry. (Price Re. i-oo). 

This standard prescribes a 
method for the quantitative 
chemical analysis of binary 
mixture of manila and skal 
fibres in any form, such as 
fibre yarn, rope or fabric. 
(Price Re. t-oo). 

This memorandum recommends 
suitable ISO metric threads 
for application in bicycle 
components and a suitable 
schedule for the smooth chan- 
ge over from existing threads 
to the ISO metric threads. 
(Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard lays down the 
requirements for location 
space requirements and the 
methods of construction of 
different classes and types of 
poultry' houses including the 
necessary' fixtures and equip- 
ment. (Price Rs. 3-00). 

This code deals with the 
general layout and construct- 
ional details of stables, includ- 
ing stalls, loose boxes, pad- 
locks and other ancillary 
structures relating to the 
housing of equincs. (Price 
Rs. 2' 50). 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale, with the Indian Standards Institution, 
Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi-I, and also at its Branch offices at (») 232, 
Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road, Bombay-i, (it) Third Floor n, Sooterkin Street, Calcutta-13, 
(ttV) 2nd Floor Sathyamurthi Bhavan, 54 General Patters Road, Madras-2, and (iv) 14/69 Civil 
Lines, Kanpur. 


[No, MD/ 13 : 2 .] 




SBC. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA i SEPTEMBER 19, I964/BHADRA 28, 1885 3805 


New Delhi, the 10th September 1964 

S.O. 3330. — In licence No. CM/L-157, dated 23rd December, 1959, held by M/s. 
Shamsher Sterling Cable Corpn. Ltd., Bombay, the details of which are published 
under S.O. 240 in the Gazette of India, Part II, Sub-section 3(ii), dated 26th 
January, 1963, the list of articles has been revised as follows with effect from 
1st September, 1964: 


Type Voltage Grade Conductor 


VIR Non-Flexiblc Cables 


(i) TRS (Tough Rubber 
Sheathed) 

S Braided and Compounded 
Weatherproof 
(iv) Flame Retarding 


250 Volts 

250 & 6 60 Volts 
250 & 660 Volts 
250 Volts 


"1 Copper or 
l Aluminium 

J 

Copper 

[No. MD/12:289.] 


D. V, KARMAKKAR, Jt. Director (Marks). 


ERRATUM 

In the then Ministry of Industry (Indian Standards Institution) Notification, 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ti), dated 21st 
September, 1963, the following corrections may please be made: 

S02719 dated 5 September 1983, Schedule, against S.No. 3, 

Col 3 for 1.10.63 read 15.9.63, and Col 4 for 30.9.94 read 14.9.64. 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 
(Department of Indjistry) 

New Delhi , the 21th August 1964 

S.O. 3331— 7-IX-64. — In pursuance of sub-rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 , clause (b) of sub-rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 14 and sub-rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and 
Appeal) Rules, 1957 , the President hereby makes the following amendments in the schedule to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Consumer 
Industries SRO 631 dated the 28 th February, 1957 , namely : — 

In the said Schedule, 

( 1 ) In part II, for the entries under the heading “Small Scale Industries Organisation?', 
the following entries shall be substituted, namely : — 


1 


2 


3 4 5 


‘All posts carrying a Development Development All 

maximum pay of Rs. Commissioner Commissioner 


425 /- per month or 
more in the Head 
Quarters Office, Ins- 
titutes/Branch Ins 1 - 
titutcs/Extcnsion Cen- 
tres/Production Cen- 
tres in the States. 


Joint Development (i) to 
Commissioner/ (Hi) 
Directors in the 
respective State 
Institutes/Direc- 
tor of Produc- 
tion Centres in 
respect of Pro- 
duction Centres 
in Kerala State. 


All other posts in the Joint Development Joint Development All 
Headquarters Office. Commissioner Commlsslonen. 

All other posts in the Directors in the Directors in the All 
Institutes/Branch respective State respective State 

Institutes/Extension Institutes Institutes 

Centres in the 
States. 


All other posts in Pro- Director of Pro- Director of Pro- All 
ductlon Centres In ductfon Centres ductlon Centres 

Kerala State. 


Secretary, Ministry 
of Industry and 
Supply 


Development 

Commissioner. 


Development 

Commissioner. 

Development 

Commissioner. 


Development 

Commissioner'’ 




3806 th E GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II~ 


(2) In part III, for the entries under the heading "Small Scale Industries Organisation*' 
the following entries shall be substituted, namely : — 


I 2 

3 

4 

5 

"All posts n the Head- Deputy Director 
quarters Office. (Administration) j 

Deputy Director 
(Administration) 

All 

Joint Development 
Commissioner. 

All posts in the Instl- Directors In the 
tutes/Branch Insti- respective State 

tutes/Ext t-usion Cen- Institutes 
tres In the States. 

Directors in the 
respective State 
Institutes. ,, 

All 

Development 

Commissioner. 

All posts In Production Director of Pro- 
Centres in Kerala ductlon Centres 

State. 

Director of Pro- 
duction Centres 

All 

Development. 

Commssioner.*' 


[No. F. 4/1/64- Vig.] 


N. CHIDAMBARAM, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th. September 1964 

S.O. 3332/IDKA/6/17. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) read with Rules 
2, 4 and 5 of the Development Council (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central 
Government hereby appoints, for a period of two years with effect from the date 
of this Order, the following persons to be members of the Development Council 
for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Paper, 
Pulp and Allied Industries, in place of members appointed under the Govern- 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. S.O. 1258, 
dated the 17th April, 1962, as amended from time to time, whose tenure of office 
has expired by efflux of time or otherwise: 


DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL FOR PAPER, PULP AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES 

1. Shri M. L. Zutshi, M/s. Karamchand Thaper & Bros. Private Ltd., 

Thaper House, 26, Brabourne Road, Calcutta-1, — Chairman. 

2. Shri V. Podder, Works Director, M/s. Rohtas Industries Ltd., Dalmia- 

nagar (Bihar). 

3. Shri M. S. Parkhe, M/s. Paper & Pulp Conversions Ltd., 376, Shukarwar 

Peth, Poona-2. 

4. Shri D, J. Patel, Managing Director, M/s. Speciality Papers Ltd., 38, 

Shreeniketan, Malabar Hills, Bombay-6. 

5. Shri P. K. Nanda, General Manager, M/s. Straw Products Ltd., 2, Mangoe 

Lane, Calcutta. ’ 

6. Shri K. L. Rajgarhia, M/s. Delhi Pulp Industries, New Industrial Town- 

ship, Faridabad. 

7. Shri P. S, Kothari, Managing Director, M/s. National Newsprint & Paper 

Mills Ltd., Nepanagar (M.P.), 

8. Shri B. Hedborg, Technical Adviser, M/s. Tata-Johnson Ltd., Jamshed- 

pur-4, 

9. Shri B. N. Nhargava, 29-D, Kamla Nagar, Delhi-6. 

10. Shri R, P. Bhargava, General Manager, M/s. Star Paper Mills Ltd., 

Saharanpur. 

11. Inspector General of Forests. Ministry of Food and Agriculture, 

(Department of Agriculture), Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi. 

12. President, Forest Research Institute & College, New Forest P.O„ Debra 

Dun. 

13. Dr. G. S. Bedi, M/s. Mandya National Paper Mills Ltd., 14, Palace Road, 

Bangalore- 1, 







Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1904/BHADRA 28, 1888 3807 


14. Shri S. L. Viswanathan, Managing Director, M/». Seshasayee Paper Mills 

Ltd., Alexandra Road, Tiruchirapalli (Madras State). 

15. Shri D. T. P. Whittaker, General Manager, M/s. Titaghur Paper Mills 

Co. Ltd., Chartered Bank Building, Calcutta-1. 

10. Shri S. N. Bhandari, M/s. Orient Paper Mills & Sirpur Paper Mills Ltd., 
16, India Exchange Place, Calcutta-1. 

17. Shri V. P. Goel, Vice-President, M/s. Gwalior Rayon Silk Mfg. & Wvg. 

Co., (Wood Pulp Division), Birlakootam, Kozhikode (Kerala). 

18. Shri S. B. Batra, M/s. Bharat Carbon & Ribbon Mfg. Co. Ltd., N-70> 

Connaught Circus, New Delhi. 

19. Shri Noman Contractor, M/s. Popular Fine Art Litho Works P. Ltd.,. 

138-C, Vakola, Santacruz, BomDay-65. 

20. Shri Devinder Kumar Jain, M/s. Siddho Mai & Sons, Chawri Bazar, 

Delhi-6. 

21. Shri K. Vishwanathan, General Manager, M/s. Rolls Print Co. Ltd., 0, 

Chowringhee Road, Calcutta-13. 

22. Shri H. F. Dhanuka, Managing Director, M/s. Bengal Paper Mills Co- 

Ltd,, 14, Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta-1. 

23. Shri J. M. Patel, M/s. Vi jay Art Printing Works, Hassan Chambers, 

Parsi Bazar, Bombay- 1. 

24. Shri Manohar Lai Nagpal, Managing Director, M/s. Kotah Straw Board 

P. Ltd., Kotah (Rajasthan). 

26. Director of Supplies (Paper), Dte. General of Supplies and Disposals, 

Parliament Street, New Delhi. 

20. Shri L, G. Mirchandani, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Industry and 
Supply, New Delhi. 

27. Shri N. Narasimhan, Development Officer, Dte. General of Technical 

Development, New Delhi. 

28. Shri S. Venkataraman, National Council of Applied Economic Research, 

Parisila Bhavan, 11, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi-1. 

29. Shri G. Sanjeeva Reddy, President, Sirpur Paper Mills Workers Union, 

Narayanguda, Hyderabad. 

2. Shri N. Narasimhan, Development Officer, Dte. General of Technical Deve- 
lopment, New Delhi, is hereby appointed to carry on the functions of the Secre- 
tary to the said Development Council. 

[No. 2(4) Dev, Councils/04.] 
C. BALASUBRAMANIAM, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1964 

S.O. 3333. — For the name and address “Shri V. Alagappan, B.A., B.L., President, 
Madras District Cooperative Central Bank, Madras” appearing in this Ministry 
Notification of even number dated the 18th August, 1964, read “Shri V. Alagappan, 
B.A., B.L., President, The Mathurai District Central Co-operative Bank Ltd., 
Madural-1 (Madras State)”. 

[No. 1-7 / 03-Com, III.] 1 
N. K. DUTTA, Under Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 

Bombay, the Bth September, 1964 

S.O. 3334. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23, of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1967, the President 




3808 The gazette of india 1 September 19 , isai/bhadra 28 , 1886 [part 11- 


hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Department of Atomic Energy, No, S.R.O. 637, dated the 
28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification: — 

(a) in Part I, General Central Service Class II, after serial number (vi) and the entries relat- 
ing thereto, the following shall be inserted namely : — 


I 

2 

3 4 

( viA ) Posts in the Rajasthan 
Atomic Power Project. 

Project Ad- 
ministrator. 

Project Ad- Ail 

minlstrator. 

(b) in Part II, General Central Service Class III, after serial number (vi) and the entries 
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted namely : — 

I 

2 

3 4 5 

(viA) Posts in the Rajasthan 
Atomic Power Project. 

(a) Administrative Posts 

( b ) Technical Posts other 
than those in the Civil 
Works Division. 

(c) Technical Posts in the 
Civil Works Division. 

1 Chief Project 

V Engineer. 

Additional Chief 
Engineer. 

Chief Project All Project Ad- 

Engineer. ministrator. 

Additional Cheif All Chief Project 

Engineer. Engineer. 

(c) in Part III, General Central Service Class IV after serial number {vi) and the entries 
relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely : — 

I 

2 

3 4 5 

(viA) Posts in the Rajasthan 
Atomic Power Project. 

Administrative 

Officer. 

Administrative All Project Ad- 

Officcr. ministrator. 

[No. 32(3) /55-Adm.] 

G. L. GARGA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the lOt h September, 1964 

S.O. 3335. — Ip exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 and 
In relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Departments also 
by clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, hereby makes the following 
amendment to the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, as continued 
In force under articles 313 and 372 of the Constitution and paragraph 19 of the 
Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, namely: — 

(1) These rules may be called the Central Services (Medical Attendance) 

Amendment Rules, 1964. 

(2) In the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, In sub-rule (d) 

of rule 2, the words and figures "a Military Hospital, subject to the pro- 
visions of Appendix 32 to the Regulations for the Medical Services of 
the Army in India, 1937,” shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 10-64/B4-H.1 
R, MtJRTBI, Unde* Secy. 




SEC. 3(;j)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 1-9, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1966 3809 


New Delhi, the 10th September, 1964 

S.O. 3336. — Whereas in pursuance of the provision of clause (h) of section 3 of 
the Pharmacy Act, 1948 (8 of 1948), the Government of West Bengal have re- 

nominated Dr. Bidhu Bhusan Roy, M.B., Professor of Pharmacology, R. G. Kar 
Medical College, Calcutta, as its representative on the Pharmacy Council of India 
for a further period of five years; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 3 of the Pharmacy Act, 
1948 (8 of 1948) the Central Government hereby directs that Dr. Bidhu Bhusan Roy 
shall continue to be a member of the Pharmacy Council of India constituted by the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No, F, 7-23/59-D. 
dated the 21st December, 1959, 

[No. F, 6-26/04-MPT.) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 10th September, 1964 

S.O. 3337,— Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has, by 
notification No. 17-2/59-MI, dated the 1st April, 1960 made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 
(102 of 1956), recognised the medical qualification M.D. granted by the University 
of Toronto, Canada for the purposes of the said Act; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) the 
Central Government hereby specifies the period of two years with effect from the 
date of this order or so long as Dr. G, S. Barber who possesses the said qualification, 
continues to work in the Jorhat Christian Hospital. Jorhat, Assam to which he is 
attached for the time being for the purposes of teaching, research or charitable 
work, whichever is shorter as the period to which the medical practice of the said 
Dr. G. S, Barber shall be limited. 

[No. F, 32-39/03-MPT.]! 

B, B. L. BHARADWAJ, Under Secy- 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 1 1th September, 1904 

S.O. 3338. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 130 and clause (i) of 
sub-rule (2) of rule 131 of the Defence of India Rules, 1962, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Department of 
Transport (Transport Wing) No. l-TL(56)/62, dated the 22nd November, 1962, 
namely: — 

In the proviso to the said notification, after the words “Area Commanding 
Officer”, the words “or Director of Mechanical Transport, Air Headquarters or 
Station Commanders, Air Force Stations”, shall be inserted. 


[No. 37-TAG (65) /64.] 
P. S. KRISHNAN, Under Secy. 


(Transport Wjng) 

ORDER 

(Merchant Shipping) 

New Delhi * the 9 th September, 1964 

S.O. 3339. — In pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Merchant Ship- 
ping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), the Central Government hereby assigns the functions 
specified In the Schedule annexed hereto to every seamen’s welfare officer appoint- 
ed under sub-section (1) of the said section. 



3810 THE gazette OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1888 [Part II- 


Schedule 

I, Seamen’s Welfare Officer appointed, at a Port in India. 

1. To supervise, inspect and co-ordinate the work of hostels, welfare clubs 
and other welfare centres operating in the port; 

2. To keep In close contact with the seamen of ships which visit the port 
and to render such assistance to them as is possible; 

3. To make provision for hostel accommodation, boarding facilities and re- 
creation and to arrange for entertainment, medical aid, hospitalisation and 
accommodation in convalesent homes for seamen and for educational aids to 
seamen and their families; 

4. To take charge and to keep in safe custody the personal effects of hospi- 
talised seamen at the port at .which they are stationed; 

5. To assist in the functioning of the Welfare Board, if any, and voluntary 

welfare organisations in the port 

6. Specific functions under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958, for the carrying 
-out of which he may be appointed; 

7. Any other function as may be assigned to him from time to time by the 
Central Government. 


II- Seamen’s Welfare Officer appointed at a port outside India. 

A. Functions in relation to welfare of seapnen, 

1. To keep in close contact with the seamen of Indian ships which visit the port 
nnd to render such assistance to them as is possible; 

2. To make provision for hostel accommodation and boarding facilities and 
medical aid and hospitalisation for Indian seamen discharged at the port and re- 
creation and entertainment for other Indian seamen visiting the port; to assist as 
far as possible at funerals of deceased seamen; 

3. To take charge and to keep in safe custody the personal effects of hospitalis- 
ed seamen and seamen who have been imprisoned; 

4. To arrange for legal aid to Indian seamen; 

5. To act as a Liaison Officer between Indian seamen and officials of the coun- 
try which they visit; 

6. To make arrangements to visit imprisoned Indian seamen and to ensure 
that they are well looked after; 

7. Specific functions under the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958, for the carrying 
•out of which he may be appointed under Part B of this order or otherwise; 

8. Any other function as may be assigned to him from time to time by the 
Central Government. 

B. Functions of an Indian Consular Officer under Part VII of the Merchant Ship- 
ping Act, 1958. 


SI. 

No. 

Section of the Mer- 
chant Shipping Act, 

1958 

Nature of duty 

I 

101(3) ■ 

Settlement of disputes between the master owner or agent of a 
ship and a seaman in respect of any matter touching the agree- 
ment with the crew. 

2 

108(d) . 

Giving consent to an erasure. Interlineation or alteration in an 
agreement with thd crew. 

3 

116 

Giving of sanction for the engagement of a seaman at a port out- 
side India by the master of an Indian ship and endorsement on 
the agreement with crew. 

4 

124 

Taking consent of seaman or apprentice to complete the voyage 
in an Indian ship which has been transferred or disposed of while 
she is at or on a voyage to any port outside India. 




SfC, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1904/BHADRA 26, 1886 3811 


SI. Section of the Mer- Nature of duty 

No. chant Shipping Act, 

1958 


5 

153 

. Receiving of report of death of seaman or apprentice and requir- 
ing, if necessary, that the property of the deceased be handed 
over to him. 

6 

155 

. Claiming and taking charge of the property of a seaman or appren- 
tice engaged at a port in India or an Indian ship and who dies 
on shore abroad. 

7 

156(1) and (3) 

. Selling of property, if necessary, of deceased seaman or apprentice 
and remission thereof and of account to the shipping master at 
the port of engagement. 

8 

161 to 166 

. Matters relating to distressed seamen, 

9 

174(4) 

. Satisfying himself as to the reasonableness of expenses incurred 
in connection with illness of master, seaman or apprentice as 
deductible from wages. 

10 

176 

. Inspection of provisions, water weights and measures and accom- 
modation. 

11 

191 & 192 

. Desertion and absence without leave-satisfying himself before 
a report is made to the Director General of Shipping. 

12 

I98(i) . 

. Making and certifying a copy of a log entry relating to desertion. 

13 

202(l)(ft) 

. Endorsing an entry relating to deduction of a fine from the wages 
of a seaman discharged at his port with his consent. 


[No. 4-MT(3»)/62.] 
D. S. NIM, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 10th September 1964 

S.O. 3340. — The President hereby repeals the P. & T. Extra Departmental 
Agents (Conduct & Service) Rules 1959 as notified in G.S.R. No. 890, dated the 
25th July, 1959. 

[No. 6/63/60-Disc.] 
D. K. AGARWAL, Asstt. Director General. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

Ahchaxolooy 

New Delhi , the 7th September 1964 

S.O. 3841. — Whereas by notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Education No. F. 4-20/64-CI dated the 1st June, 1964 published in Part II, Sec- 
tion 3 sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated the 13th June, 1964, the Central 
Government gave notice of the Intention to declare the archaeological monument 
specified in the Schedule below to be of national Importance. 

And, whereas no objections have been received to the making of such declara- 
tion. 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (24 of 
1958), the Central Government hereby declares the said archaeological monument 
to be of national Importance. 



Schedule 


si. 

No. 

State 

District 

Tehsil Locality 

Name of monu- 
ment/site. 

Revenue plot Area 

number to be in- 
cluded under 
protection 

Boundaries 

Ownership 

Remarks. 

I 

2 

3 

4 5 

6 

7 8 

9 

10 

II 


i 


Maharashtra Nanded Kinwat 


Mahoor 

Village 


Brahmanical Caves Part of survey 3 Acres and 
locally known as plot No. 127 as 27 Gunthas 
Pandavlena to- shown in the 

gether with ad- plan reptoduc- 
jaoent land com- ed below, 
prised in part of 
survey plot No. 

127 . 


North . — Remaining Government 
portion 

of survey plot No. 

127. 

East . — Remaining por- 
tion of survey plot 
No. 127. 

South . — Remaining 
portion of survey 
plot No. 127. 

West .— Remaining 
portion of survey 
plot No. 127. 


Under wor- 
ship. 


P 


3812 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BH4DRA 28, 1886 [Part II 



SITE PLAN OF PANDAVLENA 


AT MAHOOR 


/\ 

/ \ 


127 


O 25 5 °M f.T#F£ / 

JL 10 ° pEET / 

N / 

f / 

V f 

GAI-RANA \ J 


123 [ 



127 


\ 127 / 

\ / 

N/ 


127 


LIMITS OF PROPOSED PROTECTION . 


[No. F. 4-20/ 64-CI.] 
L. W. DHUME, Dy. Secy. 


Sec, S(il)] THE GAzfiTTft OP InDiA : SEPTEMBER 19, ld64/BHAt>RA 28, 1886 



THE. GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1%4/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Fart H- 


5814 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 9th September , 1964 

S.O. 3342..— Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 1678, dated the 17th April, 1964, under 
sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right oi 
User in Land; Act, 1962 (60 of 1962), the Central Government declared its in- 
tention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas the competent authority has, under sub-section (i) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of 
section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest 
on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Indian Refineries Limited 
free from all encumbrances, 


State: Bihar. 


Schedule 
District: Patna. 


Thanu: Fatua. 


Village w ; th thana No, 


Ra'pura No. 23 


Survey 

No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 
in acre 

Village with thana No. 

Survey 

No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 
in acre 

1345 

O’ 02 


2213 

0 05 

1344 

O' i8<; 


2214 

0 17 

1350 

0-035 


22r 8 

0,01 

1346 

0-26 


2219 

0 13 

1349 

0-03 


2220 

0 01 

1351 

0'35 


2262 

0 r8 

1353 

0-245 


2263 

0 165 

1814 

0’2I 


2259 

O ' 22 

t8t3 

0’17 


2258 

0 05 

1812 

O’ T3 


226r 

0 185 

1429 

34 


2256 

0 08 

1804 

0'02 


22_S4 

0 65 

1439 

0’42 


2255 

0 005 

1449 

0-15 


2253 

0 60 

1753 

o- 10 


2237 

0 23 

1750 

O’IS 


2238 

0 08 

r76i 

o-oi 


2245 

O* 12 

r76o 

0-035 


2239 

0 005' 

1759 

1754 

1755 

0-08 

0-22 

0-04 

Warispur No. 24 

2243 

0-24 

1749 

0-04 

I 

041 

1748 

0-03 

Mominpur No. 120 

2 

0 02 

1743 

o- r6 

3 

0 025 

1735 

o- 13 


4 

O’ II 

1733 

0-15 


251 

o- 14 

2198 

0- r6 


172 

0 20 

2199 

0'7i 


166 

0 08 

2200 

0-03 


165 

0 07 

2201 

0-40 


163 

0 03 

2209 

0135 


r64 

0 07 

2-210 

0-25 


173 

0 035 

22rr 

0035 


185 

0 08 



Sue. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3815 

Village with thana No, Survey Extent Village with thana No. Survey Extent 
No. in acre No. in acre 

(Plot No.) (Plot No.) 


Abdul Rahmanpur No, 

121 

Kurtha No. 123 


Haridasbigha No. 126 


191 

0 005 

198 

O' 18 

196 

0 ii 

197 

0 04 

193 

0 00; 

195 

0 ■ 21 

194 

O ' 22 

243 

0 025 

239 1 

0 015 

238 1 

0 I 9 W 

237 

0 035I 

I3i 

o- 17 

33 

O' 385 

34 

O ' 30 

960 

O ' 40 

961 

0 08 

962 

0 04 

979 

0-175 

978 

025 

989 

o-io 

990 

0 025 

1000 

O' 14 

999 

O' 10 

994 

0 005 

996 

O' 10 

1009 

0 ' 32 

1008 

0 085 

987 

0 02 

1242 

O' 17 

1241 

O' 18 

1240 

O' 18 

1243 

O'OI 

t233 

O' 12 

1234 

018 

1228 

O' 13 

T229 

0-255 

1383 

0 035 

1416 

0145 

1418 

O ' 20 

1419 

0-145 

1420 

0 30 

1421 

0 05 

1442 

0215 

1451 

O' 08 

1443 

O' 24 

1447 

O' 07 

1446 

O' 135 

*444 

002 

1445 

O' 09 

1502 

O' 15 

1688 

O' 12 

1687 

O 02 

1686 

0 03 

1504 

O ' 025 

1685 

O' T I 

1503 

O 02 

1683 

O 065 

1682 

003 

i68t 

O ' 02 

T684 

0 035 

T72S 

O' 19 

1724 

0 07 

1726 

O' II 


1723 

0 01 

1727 

O' 4 ° 

I728 

o' 125 

1729 

O' 14 

2122 

0-195 

1730 

O' 11 

2121 

0 03 

1731 

O 03 

1757 

0 045 

1758 

0 06 

1759 

o- 165 

1760 

O' IJ 5 

1805 

O ' 55 

1806 

0 093 

1809 

0 015 

1810 

0'52 

1903 

0 II 

T902 

o' 14 

1901 

O 20 

2914 

0 045 

1441 

0 005 

87 

Q '34 

86 

o- 19 

85 

o- 13 

84 

o- 115 

83 

O' 21 

82 

0- 18 

94 

0215 

97 

0 'i 45 

98 

0115 

19 9 

0 475 

200 

015 

201 

0 20 

206 

026 

207 

o- 17 

349 

0 045 

54 

038 

58 

0 365 

60 

0315 

6l 

O' 48 

126 

0 375 

124 

O ' 195 

123 

0-115 

J22 

0115 

121 

0 205 

317 

0 05 

319 

O ‘ 21 

320 

0 045 

321 

0 02 

324 

O' 14 

323 

O' 26 

338 

0 05 

127 

0415 

128 

001 

129 

0-24 

131 

O' 16 

132 

023 

133 

O’ 19 

134 

0 ' 20 

197 

O' 165 

196 

0135 

314 

0-205 


3816 the g aze tte of india September 19. 1964/bhadra 28, isss [Part ii— 


Village with, thana 
No. 

Survey 

No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 
m acre 

Village with thana No. 

Survey 

No. 

(Plot No.) 

Ext ent 
in acre 


3 i 5 

0 145 


182 

0 035 


316 

0 05 


336 

O 17 





335 

0 03 

TUhar No. 130 

220 

3 035 


334 

0 23.' 


257 

0 23 


333 

0 09 


256 

O 02 


347 

0 10 


255 

0 40 


348 

0 26 


253 

0 015 


349 

0 19 


275 

O 21 


350 

0 2 J 


276 

0 26 


351 

0 oiy 


277 

0 27 


352 

0 08 


278 

0 115 


353 

0 06 


279 

0 04 1 


354 

0 05 


280 

0 005 


355 

0 065 


311 

0 015 


356 

0 065 





357 

0 06 

BhusldNo. 136 

30 

0 085 


358 

0.065 


31 

0 24 


359 

O 085 


32 

46 

0 27 

0 065 

Hasanpur No. 144 

106 

O 18 


45 

0 035 


105 

0 045 


47 

0 07 


121 

O 05 


44 

0 165 


122 

0 10 


43 

0 09 


120 

0 07 


42 

0 10 


131 

O 09 


39 

0 33 [ 


129 

0 02 


38 

0 01 ] 


130 

0 02 


138 

0 275 


21 

0 02 


137 

0 04 





140 

0 64 

Sbekh pura No. 143 

156 

0 oi 5 


141 

0 245 


158 

0 135 


142 

0 125 


159 

O 225 


681 

0 OT 


160 

0 145 


693 

0 065 


l6l 

O 07 

Rasulpur No. 137 

157 

0 01 


162 

0 io 5 





167 

0 37 


159 

0 025 


155 

0 34 


160 

0 16 





162 

0 035 





163 

0 41 

Haibat Pur No. 146 

826 

O' 17 


192 

0 085 


827 

O '055 


194 

0 32 


830 

0 085 


195 

0 055 


831 

0 08 


196 

0 075 


820 

O 05 


197 

0 05 


819 

0 02 


199 

0 055 


818 

0 03 


200 

0 05 


817 

0 15 


201 

0 035 


816 

0 15 


205 

0 035 


815 

0 175 


206 

0 025 


809 

0 045 


207 

0 02 


8n 

0 145 


208 

0 015 


812 

0 215 


2ir 

0 2 6 


788 

0 09 


214 

0 T 7 


764 

0 035 


269 

0 05 


765 

0 33 


213 

O 035 


769 

0 04 r 


215 

0 375 


770 

0 05 





771 

0 05 

Khusropur No. 140 

547 

0 06 


773 

0 05 





774 

0‘05 

Mustafapur No. 139 

170 

0 425 


775 

0 01 


175 

0 20 


776 

O 01 


194 

0 03 


777 

O 02 


179 

0 165 


778 

0 03 


181 

0 05 


780 

O 02 



Sfc. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1888 3817 


Village with fhana Survey 
No. No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 
in acre 

Village with thana No. Survey 
No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 
in acre 

1 

783 

0035 

29 

001 

782 

006W 

34 

0-205 

781 

0005 

230 

0065 

718 

0235 

229 

0045 

719 

0- 10 

212 

0045 

726 

0 09 

211 

0-20 

727 

o- 14 

210 

0 03; 

712 

002 

209 

0-03 

711 

001 

205 

0-025 

710 

O'OI 

206 

002 

728 

0155 

204 

on 

729 

006 

184 

005 

772 

0 035 

169 

0-205 



170 

0-30 

Lodi Pur No. I45 1 

006 

168 

0-67 

32 

0-09 

35 

0005 

33 

O'OS 

577 

002 

(No. 31 / 47 / 63 -ONG-PAT. 9 ,| 


New Delhi, the 10 th September, 1064 

S.O. 3343. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 2216, dated the 15th June, 1964, under 
sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of 
User in Land) Act, 1062 ( 50 of 1962), the Central Government declared its inten- 
tion to acquire the right, of user in the lands specified in the Schedule appended 
to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas the competent authority has, under sub-section (i) of section 8 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the Dowers conferred by sub-section (i) of 
section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government herebv declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the 1 Schedule appended to this notification is 
herebv acquired for laving the pipelines and in exercise of th’ p- vrers conferred 
by sub-scction (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands, shall instead of vestinc in the Central Government, vest 
on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited free from all encumbrances. 

Schedule 

State: West Bengal, District: Burdwan. Tehsil/Thana: Kanksa. 


Village with thana No. Survey 
No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 

Area 

Village 

Server 

No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

P#nagarh, J. L. 85 38 

-05 


T03 

■06 

39 

■oos 


104 

■12 

41 

*00 


105 

■18 

44 

-13 


108 

■OJ 

45 

• T2 


109 

■04 

46 

•07 


*43 

■17 

47 

■oo< 


227 

■06 

82 

•08 

1 

228 

■40 


gglg THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 


Village Survey 

Nos. 

(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Village 

Survey 

Nos. 

(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Panagarh, J.L. 8j — contd. 229 

-02 

Mahal Chandi J. L. No. 

84 29/A 

■ 12 

247 

•06 


3i 

■03 

248 

-02 


32 

■70 

249 

* 02 


33 

-005 

250 

•04 


259 

'22 

251 

* 10 


260 

* TO 

253 

-12 


261 

'OI 

257 

-06 


262 

i 005 

271 

•03 




593 

■ 10 




610 

•005 

Birudiha J. L. 76 

17 

•40 

61 X 

•09 


2530 

-80 

612 

•06 


2643 

■50 

613 

•os 


2645 

•42 

614 

■06 


2646 

■18 

615 

•005 


2647 

•07 

616 

•08 


2648 

■01 

617 

■04 


2649 

•08 

629 

•08 


2650 

■08 

630 

•08 


2653 

■04 

631 

'°4 


2654 

■03 

633 

■ 08 


2636 

-02 

634 

■14 


2657 

■ 10 

643 

■005 


2658 

* 12 

645 

■04 


2673 

■46 

640 

•03 


2676 

■55 

650 

•O05 


3084 

■86 

4423 

■ 10 





[No, 31/33 /63-ONG.) 


S.O. 3344. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals S O. No. 2218, dated the 15th June, 1964, under 
sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Eight of 
User in Land) Act, 1962, (50 of 1902), the Central Government declared its in- 
tention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 


And whereas the competent authority has, under suh-section (i) of section 0 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 


And, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to thi3 notification; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of 
section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the light 
of user in the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right 
of user m the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest 
?? v? e , “? te of the Publication of this declaration in the Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited free from all encumbrances. 


Sec. 3(ii)] ftt£ GAZETTE Of INDIA : SEPTEMBER IS, 1964/BHADkA 28, 1856 381 $ 


State; West Bengal. 


Schedule 

District: Burdwan. 


Tehsil/Thana: Faridpur. 


Village 

Survey 

Nos. 

(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Village 

Sutvcy 

Nos. 

(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Sujara, J.L. 63 

93 

03 

Mejcdihi, J.L. 65 

8 

■78 


94 

■05 


13 

■20 


97 

06 


14 

' II 


98 

07 


J 5 

02 


99 

•08 


* 1 6 

'32 


IOO 

' IO 


19 

•21 


IOI 

'22 


33 

■ 12 





37 

02 


[No. 31 /33 /63-ONG-ii.J 


S.O. 3345. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 2219, dated the 15th June, 1964, under 
sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of 
Dscr in Land) Act, 1962 (50 of 19621, the Central Government declared its in- 
tention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas the competent authority has, under sub-section (i) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule append- 
ed to this notification; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (i) of 
section 6 ol' the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right 
01 user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest, 
on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited free from all encumbrances. 


Schedule 

State: West Bengal. District: Burdwan. Tehsil/Thana: Ausgram. 


Village 

Survey 

Nos. 

(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Village Survey 

Nos. 

(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

• 

Kotachandipur, J.L. 80 

I?] I 

*11 

5156 

•04 


1944 

‘005 

5I5 8 

-03 


1946 

■005 I 

5243 

•05 


Ji 5 i 

■ 16 ' 

1 5339 

■13 


[No. 31/33/63-ONG. iii.J 


S.O. 3346. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
m the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re- 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur In Uttar Pradesh State, a pipeline should be 
laid by the Indian Refineries Limited and that for the purpose of laying such a 
pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the 
Schedule annexed hereto; 

2- Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 


§§20 GA2fcTTfe OF INDIA : SEPTEMfefeft i9, 1964/BriADRA 1886 [Pabt 11- 


1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 

3. Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipeline under tba land to the com- 
petent authority at 7/166 Swarup Nagar, Kanpur. Every person making such an 
objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or 
by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 


State: Uttar 

Pradesh. 


Tahsil: Biniki. 

District: 

Fatehpur. 

Village 

Survey No. 

Extent 

Village 

Survey No. 

Extent 




B. B. B 



B.B.ll. 

i, Umargahna 


326 

O 6 15 

4 . Aung 

119 

160 



446 

0 0 15 






447 

° 3 5 








5. Khadara 

26 

0 I 10 

2. Hardaur Pur 


195 

097 






207 

O S 12 






208 

238 

0 II 14 

T 5 J i 

6. Babawan Pur 

2IO 

025 



244 

0 17 0 


21 1 

^ 4 10 



•253 

0 19 1 7 




3. Ram Pur 


226 

016 

7. Sadi Pur 

437 

021; 



252 

070 


623 

017 



255 

024 


640/605 

0 7 13 


[No. 31/50/63-ONG.] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 10th September 1964 

S.O. 3347.— In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry oi Petroleum and Chemicals S.O, No, 2332 dated the 29th June. 1964 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3 Sub-section (ii) dated the 
4th July, 1964, 

Read Plot No. 2436 for Plot No. 2438 against extent “0.175” acres In Village 
Dhandiha T. No. 133. 


[No. 31/47/63-ONG-1AR.] 


S.O. 3348. — In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 2712 dated the 23rd July, 1964 
published in the Gazette of India Part H, Section 3 Sub-section (ii) dated the 
8 th August, 1964, 

Read Extent ‘‘0.115” aeies for '0.11” acres against Survey No, 324 In Village 
Bulan Buzurg T. No, 140. 

[No, 31/47/63-ONG-U PAT.] 


S.O. 3349, — In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 1806 dated the 18th May, 1904 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3 Sub-section (ii) dated the 
30th May, 1964, 

At page 2181 for " B-B-B read 'B- B-B - against Survey No. 542 of Village 
0-0-12” 6-9-12” 

Tilsahri Khurd. 


[No. 31/50/63-ONG.] 
P. P. GUPTA. Under Secy. 




Sic, 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3821 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1th September 1964. 

S.O. 3350. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 5 
of the Cinematograph Act 1952, and in supersession of this Ministry’s notification 
of even number dated the 3rd August 1964, the Central Government has been 
pleased to appoint Shri B. P, Mathur, Deputy Principal Information Officer, 
Calcutta, to hold charge of the post of Regional Officer, Central Board of Film 
Censors, Calcutta in addition to his own duties with effect from 26th May, 1964, 
until further orders, 


[No. 2/43/63-FC.] 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1964 

S.O. 3351. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cine- 
matograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 9 
and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1938, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints Smt. Nalini Debi Routroy after con- 
sultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, as a member of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from 19th September, 1964. 

[No. F. 11/3/62-FC.] 
R. B. SINHA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1964 

S.O. 8332.-— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Hyderabad in respect of an industrial dispute between the manage- 
ment of the Canara Bank Limited and their workmen which was received by the 
Central Government on the 6 th September, 1964, 

BEFORE THE HON’BLE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, ANDHRA PRADESH 
Present; 

Dr. Mir Sladat All Khan, M.A., LL.B,, Easel (Osm) B.C.L., (Oxon); D. Phil,, 
(Oxon); Bar-at-Law; (Lincoln's Inn) (London); Chairman, Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Industrial Dispute No. 22/1964 
Between 

Workmen of (Sri R. P. Deshpande, Clerk) the Canara Bank Ltd., Raichur 
Branch. 


AND 

The Management, Canara Bank Ltd., Bangalore. 

Appearances r 

Sri C. S. Subramaniam, Joint Secretary, Canara Bank Employees’ Union for 
the workmen. 

Sri C. S. Ramadas, Officer, Establishment Department, Canara Bank Limited, 
for the Management. 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by letter 
No, 51_(33)/64-LRIV dated 8 th June 1964, referred the Industrial dispute between 
the workmen and the management of the Canara Bank Limited over the employ- 
ment of R. P, Deshpande, Clerk, Raichur Branch, with the following issues framed: — 
‘‘Whether the action of the management of the Canara Bank Limited in not 
giving employment to Shrl B). P, Deshpande, Clerk, Raichur Branch, 
with effect from the 7th April, 1964, was justified? If not, to what 
relief is he entitled to?” 

2. The dispute was registered here at No. 22 of 1964. Lengthy claims statement 
with copious references and equally lengthy counter statement were filed and the 



3822 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1%4/BHADRA 28, 1*80' [Past II— 


hearing was fixed for today. I am happy to note that the representatives of the 
parties Sri C. S. Ramadas, Officer, Establishment Department, on behalf of the 
Management, and Sri C, S. Subramaniam, Joint Secretary of the Canara Bank 
Employees’ Union, have filed a compromise. The compromise states that in a meet- 
ing of the representatives of the management and those of the union held at 
Hyderabad on 10th to 18th August 1964 the dispute on the alleged lock-out of 
K. P. Deshpande, Clerk, Raiehur Branch, was settled amicably and it was agreed 
that the Bank will permit him to report for duty at Raiehur and the entire period 
from 6th April 1964 to the date of his receipt of the order to Join duty will be 
treated as one spent on duty. It is further agreed that the management, having 
taken Into consideration the employee’s application for transfer to Hyderabad made 
In the past, would now effect his transfer to Hyderabad. 

2(i). As I am satisfied that the compromise is genuinely entered into by the 
representatives of the parties and is In the interests of both of them, I pass an 
Award in accordance with the compromise. 

Report accordingly to Government on this 3rd Day of September 1964, given 
under my hand and the seal of the Court. 

M. S. Apr Khan, 
Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. 51(33)/ 64-LR1V.] 


ORDER’S 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1964 

S.O. 3353. — Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Employers in rela- 
tion to the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their workmen represented by the 
Bombay Port Trust General Workers Union, Bombuy: 

And whereas the said employers and the said workmen have, under sub-section 
(1) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (.14 of 1947) agreed lo refer 
the dispute to arbitration by an Arbitration Agreement and have forwarded to the 
Central Government under sub-section (3) of the said section a copy of the said 
Arbitration Agreement; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 10A of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby publishes the said Arbitration Agreement which 
was received by it on the 31st August, 1964. 

AGREEMENT 

(Under Section 10-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Between 

The Trustees of the Port of Bombay 

AND 

Their workmen 

employed as Steam Grana Drivers and Mobile Crane Drivers, Gr, II, in the 
Engineering Department, 

Names of Parties 

Representing Employers — The Trustees of the Port of Bombay. 

Representing Workmen— B. P. T. General Workers’ Union. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute 
to the sole Arbitration of 3hri F. Jecjeebhoy, Firuz Ara, Churchgato Reclamation, 
Bombay-1. 

1. The matters in dispute are as follows: 

"Whether under the Scheme recommended by the Committee appointed by 
the Government of India, Ministry of Transport and Communications, 
by its Resolution No. 23-PLA(103)/59 dated 12th May 1960— 

(1) Steam Crane Drivers of the Bombay Port Trust are entitled to payment 
at piece-rates and, if so, whether such payment should be made with 
eflect fr*m 1st October 1962; and 



Stc. S(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 19<H/BHADBLA 28. 1880 3823 


(2) Mobile Crane Drivers, Grade II, are entitled to payment at piece-rates 
in the following circumstances: — 

(i) while operating a Tractor or a Fork-lift in conjunction with a Steam 

Crane or a Loco Crane at the Docks; 

(ii) while operating a Tractor, a Fork-lift or a Platform Truck in conjunc- 

tion with a ‘Coles’ or other Mobile Crane used as a wharf crane at 

the Docks, at Frere Basin or at Hay or Haji Bunder; and 

(iii) while operating a Tractor, a Fork-lift or a Platform Truck with Shore 

Workers other than Baroots.” 

2. The Employers are the Trustees of the Port of Bombay Incorporated by 
Bombay Act VI of 1879 having their principal offices at Ballard Road, Fort, Bombay, 
and the establishments of the Bombay Port Trust concerned in the dispute are the 
Workshops and the Mobile Crane Sections of the Employers’ Engineering Departs 
ment, the workmen directly concerned being the Steam Crane Drivers and the 
Mobile Crane Drivers, Grade II, working in those Sections. 

3. The workmen's Union is the B. P. T. General Workers’ Union having their 
office at Kavarana Building, 20 Frere Road, Bombay-9. 

4. The total number of workmeu employed in the undertaking affected la 26000. 

5. The estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 
dispute is about 207 (Mobile Crane Drivers, Gr. II 248, Steam Crane Drivers 19). 

6. We further agree that the decision of the said Arbitrator shall be binding on 
us. 


Dated the 24th day of August 1964. 

Signed by Shri Anthony Lancelot Dias 
Chairman, 

and by Shri Govind Haridas Seth, 
and by Shri Damodar Mathuradas Ashar, 
two of the Trustees of the Port of 
Bombay In the presence of 


Chairman Sd/- 
Trustee Sd/- 
Trustee Sd/- 


The Common Seal of the Trustees of the 
Port of Bombay affixed in the presence of 


Signed for and on behalf of the 

B. P. T. General Workers’ Union 


by G. H. Kale, President 


and by S. Maitra, General Secretary 


Sd/- 

Dy. Secretary, 
Bombay Port Trust. 


Sd/- 

Dy. Secretary, 
Bombay Port Trust. 


President 

Sd/- 

General Secretary 
4/8/64 


in the presence of Shri A. Gomes 
Witness Sd/- 

I, F. Jeejeebhoy hereby consent' to act as the Sole Arbitrator in this matter. 

Sd/- F. Jeejeebhoy, 

27-8-6.4 

[No. 28/93/64/LRIV.j 


S.O. 3354, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank 
Limited and their workmen in respect of the matter specifled in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 



3824 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19^ 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part 11 - 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause (d) 
Of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the industrlai Disputes Act, 1947 (14 cf 1947), the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which' Dr. Mir 
Siadat All Khan shall be the Presiding O Ulcer, with headquarters at Hyderabad 
and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

1. Whether the management of the Punjab National Bank Limited is justified 

in refusing to release the security furnished by Shri C. V. Suryanarayana 
of the Hyderabad branch of the Bank? 

2. If not, to what relief is the employee entitled? 

[No. 51 (48)/ 04-LRIV.j 


New Delhi , the 14th September , 1964 

S.O. 3355. — Whereas the industrial disputes specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed are pending before the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta constituted by the 
Orders of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S.O. 2449, dated the 3rd July, 1964 and No. S.O. 3210, dated the 27th August, 
1964 published in the Gazette of India Part II Section 3(n), dated the 11th 
July, 1964 and the 5th September, 1964 respectively; 

And whereas for the ends of justice the disputes should be disposed of 
without delay; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) Of 
section 33B and section 7A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby withdraws the proceedings hi relation to the said dis- 
putes from the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta with Shri S. N. Guha Roy as the 
Presiding Officer and constitutes an Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta of which 
Shri S. K. Roy shall be the Presiding Officer and transfers the said disputes to It 
and directs that the Tribunal shall proceed with the said proceedings from the 
stage at which these are transferred and dispose oi the same according to law. 


Schedule 


S. No. Parties to the dispute 


No, of Date of 

reference reference 


Messrs. A, C. Roy and Company Private S.O. 2449 3-7-1964 

Limited, Calcutta and their workmen. 

Calcutta Licensed Measurers, Calcutta S.O. 3213 27-6-1964 

and their workmen represented by the 
Calcutta Lineesed Measurers Employees 
Union, Bengal Chamber of Commerce & 

Industry Indian Staff Association (Cleri- 
cal Staff), the Calcutta Port & Dock 
Workers Union and the National Union 
of Dock Labour. 


[No. 28/41/64-LRIV.] 


S.O. 3356,— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs A. C, Roy and Company 
Private Limited. Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 



Sue. 3(ii)l THfe GAzfiTTt Of INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/SHADRA 28, 1333 382 $ 


which Shri S, K. Rdy shall be the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Cal- 
cutta and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the demands of the Table Staff in respect of the following matters 
are justified and if so to what extent? 

(1) Leave ; 

(2) Retirement Benefit; 

(3) Medical Facilities; 

(4) Dearness Allowance. 

[No. 28/87/64/LRIV.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 10 th September 1964 

S.O. 3357.— In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment No. 51(23)/G4-LR1V, dated the 11th August, 1904, published as 

S.O. 2888 on pages 3264—3285 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3 sub-sec- 
tion (11), dated the 22nd August, 1964, for “Shri Budhl Prashad” appearing In the 
Schedule, read “Shri Budhi Parkash’’. 


[No. 5l(23)/64-LRIV.1 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1964 

S.O. 3358.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 258 of the 
Constitution, the President hereby entrusts to the Government of West Bengal, with 
the consent of that Government, the functions of the Central Government under the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), in so far as they relate to industrial dis- 
putes concerning the Industrial establishment specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed. 


The Schedule 

The Coke Oven and Bye-Product section of the Durgapur Steel Plant. 

[No. 8/187/63-LR.IL] 


New Delhi , the 10th September 1964 

; In PU r s u a nce of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Induu- 
tn “ Tribunal, Hhanbad in the matter of an application under section 33A of the 
l aid £ ct from Shri N ‘c K ' ^° y A. Cl u rk , Crade II, T. No. 30024, Digwadlh Colliery, 
G/o Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Dlianbad which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 3rd September, 1964. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

In I 947 matter ° f 8 Complalnt under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 


Parties : 


Complaint No. l or 1962 
(arising out of Reference No. 45 of 1961) 


Sri N. K. Roy, Clerk Grade II, T. No, 30024, Digwadlh Collierv rwiu,„ 
Mazdoor Sangh, Dhanbad.-^Cornplainant. Colliery, C/o Colliery 

VS . 

Tata o I ppo n s it a e n JorS eel Co ‘ LM " Jamadoba ’ PO. Jealgora, Dt Dhanbad.- 
Present : 

Sri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A., B.L —Presiding Officer. 



$26 T'HR GAZETTE oE INDIA : SEPTEMBER i9, 1964/BHADILA. 28, 1886 [PAat ll- 


Appearances : 

For the Complainant .— Sri Shankar Bose, Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, 
with the complainant Sri B. K. Roy. 

For the Opp. party . — Sri G. Prasad, and Sri S, N. Singh, 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated, the 26th August 1964 
AWAR'D 


This complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 was made 
by the workman concerned, Sri N, K. Roy, Clerk Grade II of Digwadih Colliery, 
on 22nd December 1961 but it was registered on 16th January 1962 by order of my 
predecessor dated 4th Junuary 1962. 


2. When the complaint was taken up today on 20th August 1964 for hearing, a 
preliminary objection was taken on behalf of the company opposite party, who are 
represented by Sarvashree G. Prasad and S, N. Singh, to the effect that the present 
complaint having been filed in Reference No, 45 of 1961 was not maintainable in 
as much as the complainant cannot be said to be a “workman concerned” In the 
aaid reference within the meaning of Section 33 (2) (b) of the Act, and, therefore, it 
should be dismissed in limini on this preliminary objection alone. 

3. It appears from the award dated 29th September 1962 given by me in Ref- 
erence No. 45 of 1961 that in that case the dispute which was referred to the 
Tribunal for adjudication was: 

“Whether the dismissal of Jagdish Singh, an underground Munshl, by the 
management of the Digwadih Colliery was justified, and if not, to what 
relief is he entitled?” 

4. In this case no doubt complainant is an Attendance Clerk working in the 
Digwadih Colliery, but, in my opinion, the fact that this complainant and Sri Jagdish 
Singh, who was concerned in Reference No. 45 of 1961, were both working in the 
same colliery or were clerks of the same coiliery is not sufficient to make the com- 
plainant “workman concerned” within the meaning of Section 33(2) of the Act, for 
the simple reason that in Reference 45 of 1961 no question of principle was In- 
volved, which can be said to apply to all the clerks working In the Digwadih 
Colliery nor that reference was in a representative capacity on behalf of all the 
workmen of the Digwadih Colliery or on behalf of all the clerks working there. 

5. In these circumstances, in my opinion, it is plain that the present complaint 
is not maintainable as there has been no contravention of Section 33 which could 
entitle the complainant to make the present complaint under Section 33A of the Act. 
I, therefore, dismiss the complaint on this preliminary ground alone. 

6. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government under 
Section 15 of the Act. 


Dhanbad, Sd/- Raj Kisiiore Prasad, 

The 26th August, 1964. Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 

[No. 8/34/63-LRII.] 

8.0. 3360.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial disputes between the employers in relation 
to the Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited, Digwadih, Post Office Jealgora, 
Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on 
the 8th September, 1904. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD, 


In the matter of a 
Act, 1947. 


Reference Under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Reference No. 31 of 1963 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd. Digwadih, 
P.O. Jealgora. Dt.. Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their workmen. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, I964/'BHADRA 28, 1886 3827 


Present ; 

Sri R’aj Kishnre Prasad, M.A,, B.L Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers. — Sarvashree S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate, S. N. Singh and 
A. B. Kaimal. 

For the Workmen. — Sri S. Das Gupta, General Secretary, Tisco Accounts Branch 
Employees Union. 

State: Bihar, Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 31st August 1964 
AWARD 

By its Order No. 2/104/62-URII dated the 24th April 1963 the Ministry of Labour 
& Employment, Government of India, referred under Section 10(l)(d) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act. 1947 for adjudi; ation to this Tribunal an industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., 
Digwadih, and their workmen in respect of the matter specified below: 

"Whether Shri N. M. Mukherjee is entitled to the scale of pay of Rs, 87 — 7 — 
115 — 8—131 — {) — 158 instead of the scale of Rs. 60 — 9 — 100 which has 
been allowed to him? If so. from what date." 

2. On 31st August 19G4 both the parties filed a joint petition of compromise 
signed by their respective representatives setting out therein the terms of settle- 
ment and prayed that an award in terms of the said compromise be passed and the 
reference be accordingly disposed of. 

3. The reference is accordingly disposed of in terms of the compromise dated 
31st August 1964 which is marked Annexure 'A’ and an award in terms of it Is 
passed which is made a part of it. 

4. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government under 
Section 15 of the Act. 


Sd/- Raj Kishohe Prasad. 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 


Annexure A 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 31 of 1963 

Employers in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. Digwadih 


Their workmen. 


AND 


The above reference has been amicably settled between the parlies without 
prejudice to their respective contentions on the following terms: 

1. That Sri N. M. Mukherjee will be placed in Grade I in the scale of Rs, 87 — 7 — 
116-8- — 131 — 9 — 158 with effect from the 1st of August 1963. 

2. That this compromise will not create a proccdence regarding the other clerks 
placed in similar position. 

It is, therefore, humbly prayed that an award be passed in terms of the above 
compromise and the reference disposed of accordingly. 


For Workmen . 

S. Das Gupta, 
General Secretary. 
Tisco Accounts Branch 
Employees’ Union. 


For Employers: 

A. B, Kaimal, 
Offlcer-in-Charge, 
Colliery Accounts Office 
(Tisco Ltd.) 

S. S. Mukherjee, 

Advocate. 


[No. 2/ 194/ 62 -LRII-I.] 



3828 THE gazette, OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part 11- 


B.O. 3381. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers In relation 
to the Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited, Digwadih, Post Office Jealgora, 
Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on 
the 8th September, 1964. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

In the matter of a Reference Under Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47) 


Reference No. 19 of 1963 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd. Digwadih, 
P.O. Jealgora. Dt. Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their workmen. 

Present: 

Sri Raj Klshore Prasad, M.A., B.L., — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For Employers . — Sri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate, and. Sri S. N. Singh, Sri A. B. 

Kaimal, for the Company. 

For Workmen. — Sri S, Das Gupta, General Secretary, Tisco Accounts Branch. 

Employees’ Union, with Sri M. L. Chakraborty, 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 

Dhanbad, dated the 31st August 1964 

AWARD 

By its Order No. 2/104/62-LRII dated 25th February 1963 the Ministry of Labour 
& Employment, Government of India, referred under Section 10(l)(d) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication to this Tribunal an industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Tuta Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., 
Digwadih, and their workmen in respect of the matter specified below: 

“Whether Sarvashrl S V. R. Rao and M. L. Chakravarty are entitled to the 
scale of pay of Bs. 87 1 — 7- — 115-8- — 131—9—158 instead of the scale of 
R S . 60—5 — 100 which has been allowed to them? If so, from what 
date.” 

2. On 31st August 1984 both the parties filed a joint petition of compromise 
signed by tbeir respective representatives setting out therein the terms of settle- 
ment and prayed that an award in terms of the said compromise be passed and the 
reference be accordingly disposed of. 

3 The reference Is accordingly disposed of In terms of the compromise dated 
31 st August 1964 which Is marked Annexure ‘A’ and an award in terms of It Is 
passed which is made a part of it. 

4. This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government under 
Section 15 of the Act. 

Sd/- Raj Kibhore Prabad, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 


Annexure ‘A’ 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

Reference No. 19 or 1963 

Employers In relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Co, Ltd., Digwadih 

AND 


Their workmen. 

The above reference has been amicably settled between the parties without 
prejudice to their respective contentions on the following terms: 

1 That SarvashTee S V Rao and M. L. Chakraborty will be placed in Grade I 
In the X rflS ! 87-7-n5-8-131-9-158 with effect from the 1st August 1963. 



Sec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INmA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1904/BHADRA 28, 1889 3829 


2. That this compromise will not create a precedence regarding the other clerks 
placed In similar position. 


It Is, therefore, humbly prayed that an award be passed In terms of the above 
compromise and the reference disposed of accordingly. 


For Workmen-. 

S. Das Gupta, 
General Secretary, 

Tisco Accounts Branch 
Employees' Union. 

M. L. Chaxraborty. 


For Employers: 

A. B, Kaimajl, 
Offlcer-in-Charge 
Colliery Accounts Office 
(Tisco Ltd.) 

S. S. Mukhkiuee, 
Advocate. 
(No. 2/104/ 62-LR.II-II.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1904 

S.O. 3302. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Hindusthan Lalpeth 
Colliery, District Chanda and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the management of the Hindusthan Lalpeth Colliery was justified 
in stopping the following workers from work with effect from the 3 1st June, 
1964, namely: — 

1. Udhao Warloo Vankar \ 

2. Botla Lingaiya Bakloo / Masons 

3. Daya Samoo w/o Ramiya 

4. Jangam Lachmu w/o Madnaiya 1 

8 . Yorkal Yella | 

6. R'aja Malla ^ Mason Mazdoors, 

7. Gajjala Ankoosh j 

8. Tlsallor Raimallu. J 

(2) If not to what relief are these workers or any of them entitled. 

[No. 3/4/64-LRII.] 

S.O. 3363. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bhagaband Colliery of 
Messrs. Borea Coal Company (P) Limited, Post Office Bhagaband, District Dhan- 
bad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

(i) Whether the action of the management of Bhagaband Colliery in dis- 
missing Shri Azimulla Mia (Tugger Khalasi) with effect from the 29th 
April 1964 was justified? 

(ii) To what relief, if any, Is the workman entitled? 


[No. 2/69/64-LR.II.] 



830 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1888 [Part II- 


New Delhi, the 9th September 1904 

S.O. 3364. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Pure Kajora Colliery P.O. 
Kajoragram District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specifi- 
ed in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act- 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the action of the management in suspending Shrl Badri 

Chamar, Loader, for three days with effect from 9th April, 1964, was 
justified? 

(2) If not, to what relief is the workman entitled. 

[No. 0/39/64-LR. II , } 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1964 

S.O. 3305. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colliery, 
P.O. Katrasgarh, (Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the Said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the management of South Govindpur Colliery, Post Office Katras- 

garh, District Dhanbad is justified in rendering idle Shri Lakhan Lai 
Agarwala and Shri Murali Prasad, Fireman with effect from 7th June 
t964 and 8th June 1964 respectively? 

(2) If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

[No. 2/95/64-LRII.] 
B. B. SETH, Dy. Secy. 

DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi, the 14th. September 1964 

S.O. 3366.-— Whereas the resignation of Shri V. Krishnamurthy, Provident 
Fund Inspector, has been accepted with effect from the 23rd July, 1904 (after- 
noon). 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred bu sub-section (1) of 
section 13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1962 (IB of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, No. S.O. 3414, 
dated the 2nd November, 1962, namely: — 

In the said notification for the words “Sarvashri V. Krishnamurthy and Syed 
Noor Mohamed to be Inspectors”, the words ‘‘Shri Syed Noor Mohamed to be an 
Inspector” shall be substituted. 

[Np. 20(62) 04-PFI.j 

S.O. 3367. — Whereas the resignation of Shri K, P, Vasavada, Provident Fund 
Inspector, has been accepted with effect from the 14th August, 1964 (afternoon); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act. 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby rescinds the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment, No. S.O. 940, dated the 20th March, 1962. 

[20(62/64-PFI.] 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1889 3831 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue & Company Law) 

New Delhi, the 19 th September 1964 

S.O. 3368. — In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 11, clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and 
sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal ) Rules, 
1957, the President hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. S.R.O. 612, dated the 
28th February, r9j7, namely •: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification : — 

I. in Part 11 

(а) For the heading “Central Excise Department (including Land Customs)”, the following 

heading shall be substituted, nam ely : — 

“Central Excise Department” 

(б) Under the heading "Central Excise Department” as so substituted, 

(0 under the sub-heading “Non-ministerial”, for the entries “All other posts above 
the rank of Inspector” and “All other posts equal to or below the rank of Inspector** 
in Column I, and the entries relating thereto, the following entries shall be 
substituted, namely : — 


1 


2 


3 4 5 


‘‘All other posts above Collector of Collector of Central All Central Board of 
the rank of Inspector,” Central Ex- Excise. Excise & Customs, 

cise. 

Deputy Collector or (1) to Collector of Central 
Assistant Collector (iii) Excise. 

(Hars.) or Assistant 
Collector in respect 
of the persons serving 
under him. 


“All other posts Assistant Assistant Collector 
equal to or below the Collector (Headquarters), 

rank of Inspector”. (Headquarters) 

Deputy Collector in 
respect of the per- 
sons serving under 
him. 


All Collector of Central 
Excise. 


All Collector of Central 
Excise. 


Assistant Collector in (>)to Collector of Central 
respect of the persons (m) Excise, 

serving under him. 


Where there Collector of Central 
is no Assis- Excise, 
tant Collector 
(Headquarters), 

Collector of 
Central Ex- 
cise, Deputy Collector or 

Assistant Collector 
in respect of the 
persons serving under 


All Central Board of 
Excise & Customs. 


(i) to Collector of Central 
(iii) Excise. 



3832 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1904/BHADRA 28, 1880 [Part II- 


(ii) For the entries under the sub-heading “Ministerial’* the following entries shall be 
substituted, namely: — 


1 


2 


3 4 5 


Office 

Superintendent 


All other posts 


Collector 

Central 

else. 


of Collector of Central 
Ex- Excise, 


CdUt-VtUl ill 

Assistant Collector 
(Headquarter*) or 
Assistant Collector 
in respect of the per- 
sons serving under 
him. 


All Central Board of 
Excise & Customs. 

(f) to Collector of Central 
(in) Excise. 


Asssistant 

Collector 

(Head- 

quarters). 


Assistant Collector 

(Headquarters). 

All 

Collector 

Excise. 

of Central 

Deputy Collector in 
respect of persons ser- 
ving under him. 

All 

Collector 

Excise. 

of Central 

Assistant Collector in 

(i) to 

Collector 

of Central 

respect of the persons 
serving under him. 

(uO 

Excise. 



Where there Collector of Central All Central Board of 
isnoAssis- Excise. Excise & Customs, 

tant Collector 
(Head- 
quarters), 

Collector of 
Central Ex- 
cise. 


Deputy Collector or (i) to Collector of Central 
Assistant Collector in (1 ft) Excise, 

respect of the persons 
serving under him. 


(c) Under the heading “Customs Department”. 

Under the sub-heading “Non-ministerial” after the entries relating to the “Chemical 
Assistant”, the following entries shall be inserted vie., 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

'Laboratory 

Attenders’’. 

Deputy Chief 
Chemist. 

Deputy Chief Chemist. 

All 

Chief Chemist. 


Where there 

Is no Deputy 
Chief Che- 
mist, Che- 
mical Exa- 
miner. 

Chemical Examiner. 

All 

Chief Chemist. 







Src. .VJi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1984/BHADRA 28, 1888 3 $33 


(d) For the entries under the heading “Directorate of Inspection (Customs and Central 
Excise)”, the following entries shall be substituted, namely: — 


t 

2 

3 

4 

3 

“All posts equal to or 
above the rank of 
Assistant.” 

Director of 
Inspection. 

Director of Inspection. 

Deputy Director or 
Assistant Director of 
Inspection. 

All 

(0 to 
6*0 

Central Board of Ex- 
cise & Customs. 
Director of Inspection . 

All other posts below 
the rank of "Assis- 
tant.” 

Assistant 
Director of 
Inspection. 

Deputy Director or 
Assistant Director of 
Inspection. 

All 

Director of Inspection. 

(«) For the entries under the heading “Narcotics Department” the following entries shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

r 

2 

3 

4 

5 

‘ ‘Non- Ministerial’ ’ 

Chemical Assistant. 

Chief Chemist. 

Chief Chemist. 

Chemical Examiner, 

Ghazipur or Assistant 
Narcotics Commis- 

sioner, Ncemuch. 

All 

80 “ 

Central Board of 
Excise & Customs. 
Chief Chemist. 

All posts above the 
rank of Inspector. 

Narcotics 

Commissioner. 

Narcotics Commissioner. 

Deputy Narcotics 

Commissioner or 

Assistant Narcotics 

All 

Central Board of 

Excise & Customs. 
Narcotics Commis- 
sioner. 


Commissioner, in res- 
pect of persons serving 
under him. 

All other posts equal to Assistant Assistant Narcotics All Narcotics Commis- 
or below the rank of Narcotics Commissioner (Head- sioncr. 

Inspector. Commissioner! quarters). 

(Headquarters). 

Deputy Narcotics All Narcotics Commis- 

Commlsisoner in res- Sioner. 

pect of persons serving 
under him. 

Assistant Narcotics ( 1 ) to Narcotics Commis- 
Commissioner in res- (m) sioner. 

pect of persons serving 
under him. 


If there iB no Narcotics Commissioner. All Central Board of 

Assistant Nar- Excise and Customs, 

codes Com- 
missioner 
(Headquarters) 

Narcotics I 
Commissioner. 

Deputy Narcotics (i) to Narcotics Commis- 

Commissloner or Assis- (sis) sioner. 
tant Narcotics Commis- 
sioner in respect of 
persons serving under 
him. 









3834 TIIF GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 [Part II- 


I 

2 3 

4 

5 

“ Ministerial ” Superin- 
tendent. 

Narcotics Narcotics Commissioner. All 

Commissioner. 

Central Board of 

Excise & Customs. 


Deputy Narcotics 

Commissioner or As- 
sistant Narcotics Com- 

GO to 
(m) 

Narcotics Com- 

missioner. 


missioner in respect 
of persons serving 
under him. 



Allother posts. 

Assistant Nar- Assistant Narcotics 

cotics Com- Commissioner (Head- 
rmssioner quarters). 

(Headquarters) 

All 

Narcotics Com- 

missioner. 


Deputy Narcotics 

Commissioner in res- 
pect of persons serving 
under him. 

All 

Narcotics Cornmis - 
sioner. 


Assistant Narcotics 

Commissioner in res- 
pect of persons serving 
under him. 

G) to 

(m) 

Narcotics Commis- 

sioner, 


If there is no Narcotics Commiss oner. 
Assistant Nar- 
cotics Com- 

All 

Central Board of 

Excise and Customs. 


miBsioner 

(Headquarters), 

Narcotics 

Commissioner. 




Deputy Narcotics 

Commissioner or As- 
sistant Narcotics 

Commissioner in res- 
pect of persons serving 
under him. 

G) to 
G*0 

Narcotica Com mis- 
s.onci. 

“Laboratory Attendcrs, 

Deputy Chief Deputy Chief Chemist. 
Chemist. 

All 

Chief Chemist. 


Where there is Chemical Examiner, 
no Deputy 

Chief Chemist, 

Chemical 

Examiner. 

All 

Chief Chemist. 


II. in Part III 

(a) For the heading '‘Central Excise Department (including Land Customs)”, the following 
heading shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Central Excise Department’ ’ , 

(4) For the entries under the heading “Customs Department”, the following entries shall 
be substituted, namely : — 


1 2 3 

4 

5 

‘‘Laboratory Attenders. Deputy Chief Deputy Chief Chemist. 
Chemist. 

All 

Chief Chemist. 

Where there is Chemical Examiner, 
no Deputy 

Chief Chemist, 

Chemical 

Examiner, 

All 

Chief Chemist. 

All other posts. Assistant Assistant Collector of 

Collector of Customs. 

All 

Collector of Customs. 

Customs. 








Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 19, 1964/BHADRA 28, 1886 3835 



(c) For the entries under the heading 

"Narcotics Department” the following entries shall 


be substituted, namely — 


I 2 

3 45 


"All posts. 


Assistant Nar- _ Assistant Narcotics All Narcotics 
cotics Com- Commissioner (Head- sioner, 

missioner quarters) or Deputy 

(Headquarters). Narcotics Commis- 
sioner in respect of 
persons serving under 
him. 


CcmroiF- 


Assistant Narcotics 
Commissioner in res- 
pect of persons serving 
under him. 

Assistant Assistant Narcotics 
Narcotics Commissioner in res- 

Commissioncr. pect of persons serving 
under him. 

District Opium Officer 
or Chemical Examiner 
or Manager, Govern- 
ment Opium and 
Alkaloid works, Ghazi- 
pur or Manager, Opium 
Factory, Neemuch, in 
respect of persons 
serving under him. 


(*) to 

m 

Narcotics 

sioner. 

Commis- 

All 

Narcotics 

sioner. 

Cornmis- 


(i) to Deputy Narcotics 
( 1 lit) Commissioner or 

Assistant Narcotics 
Commissioner 
(Headquarters) or 
Assistant Narcotics 
Commiss'oner in 
respect of persons 
serving under him. 


[F- No. 19 / 76 / 61 -Ad. V.] 
T. R. VISWANATHAN, Dy. Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FREES, 
NEW DELHI AND PU BLIS HED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, IPO* 




