


3356 THE GAZEIfTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 [Part II- 


Issue 

No. 

No. and Date 

Issued by 

Sub/ect 


S.O. 3094, dated 
September, 1 965. 

28th 

Ministry of Finance 

The Emergency Risks (Factories) 
Insurance (Fourth Amendment) 
Scheme, 1965. 

242 

S.O. 3095, dated 
September, 1965. 

28th 

Ministry of Com- 
merce. 

Draft notification regaubrg Steel 

and Steel Products as specified 
therein. 


S.O. 3096, dated 
September, 1965. 

28 th 

Do. 

The Export of Steel nrd Steel Products 
(Inspection) Rules, 1965. 


S.O. 3097, dated 
September, 1965. 

28th 

Do. 

Recognition of the Indian Standards 
Institution Certilkaticn Mark 

with respect to Steel and Steel 
Products. 

343 

S.O. 3098, dated 
September, 196S 

29th 

Do. 

Appointing a body ol persons making 
a complete investigation into the 
substantial fall of production in 
respect of cotton textiles manu- 
factured by the Since Durga 
CotLon Mills (Kadi) Private Ltd., 
Kadi (North Gujatut). 

244 

S.O. 3099, dated 
September, 1965. 

29th 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcast- 
ing. 

Approval of films specified therein. 

245 

S.O. 3100 ,datcd 
September, 1965. 

29th 

Ministry of Com- 
merce. 

The Export (Quality Control and 
Inspection) Amcrdmtrt Rules, 

1965. 

246 

S.O.314S, dated 
September, 1965. 

30th 

Do. 

Proposals to notify thrt the ir'r.trals 
and ores speciited in the schedule 
therein, shall be subject to inspec- 
tion prior to export. 


S.O. 3149, dated 
September, 1965. 

30th 

Do. 

Proposals to notify that manganese 
ore and iron ore shall be subject 
to inspection prior to export. 

247 

S.O. 3150, dated 
September, 1965. 

30th 

Do. 

Recognition of certain agencies for 
the inspection of the minerals and 
ores as specified in schedu lc II. 


S.O. 3t5t, dated 
September, 1965. 

30th 

Do. 

The Export of Minerals 1 r d Ores 
(Inspection) Rules, 1965. 


S.O. 3152, dated 
September, 1965 

30th 

Do. 

Recognition of certain agencies for 
Inspection of manganese ore and 
iron ore. 


S.O. 3153, dated 
September, 1965. 

30th 

Do. 

The Export of Manganese Ore and 
Iron Ore (Inspection) Rules, 

1965. 

248 

S.O, 3154, dated 
October, 1965. 

131 

Ministry of Steeland 
Mines. 

Corrigendum to Order No. S.O. 
2912, dated 14th September, 

1965 . 

249 

S.O. 3155, dated 
October, 1965. 

I St 

Ministry of Com- 
merce. 

Notifying that Cast Iron Soil Tipcs 
shall be subject to quality ccnliol 
and inspection prior to export. 


g*rr srercmr jRret iriw wrpt fViW 


#ri *brH or ^ sngVf} \ EHm ^ rrt iNmf ^ 3rrtf sPt ^ 

M f^r ^ *ffar ^rpf ^dWi 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
lubmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 




tec. 3(h)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER. Hi, 196S/ASVINA 2-1, I8»7 3337 

mft II — 3 — (ii) 

PART II — Sec lion 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(r*t R r) wur ^ vw^rf ath (inr wtfot *ri 

4»#T*r nr'w^it im antf *nj an^r aifr ari MR^nmf i 

Statutory orders and notifications Issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment oi India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories), 


PRIME MINISTER’S SECRETARIAT 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1905 

S.O. 3167. — In exercise oi the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) cf rule U, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, tile President 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Prime Minister’s Secretariat No. S.R.O, G30, dated the 
28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification,— 

(1) In Part I— General Central Service, Class 111, lor the entries in 
columns 2, 3, 4 and 5 against the entry “All posts" in column 1, the 
following entries shall respectively be substituted, namely:- - 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Joint Secretary 10 the 
Prime Minis. er 


Joint Secretary to the All 

Prime Minister 


Secret ar to the 
Prime Minister 


(21 In Part II — Genera' Central Service, Cla33 IV, for the entries in 
columns 2, 3, 4 and 5 against the entry “All posts” in column 1, the 
following entries shall respectively be substituted, namely: — 


2 


3 


4 


J 


Under Secretary 


Under Secretary 


All Joint Secretary to the 

Prime Minister. 


fNo. F. 70/7/65-PMA,] 
B. K. SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 8th October 1965 

S.O. 31G8. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the Fresidcnt hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1057, 
namely: — 


1, These rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control 
and Appeal) Third Amendment Rules, 1865. 

2. In the Schedule to the said rules, in Part III — Central Civil Services, Class 
III, for the entries in columns 3 and 5 relating to ‘(c) Prime Minister’s Secretariat’ 



335S THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1 965 /AS VINA 24, 1887 [Part II- 


against the entry “Central 
Lower Division Grades” in 
be substituted, namely: — 

Secretariat Clerical Service, Upper Division and 
column (1), the following entries shall respectively 

3 

1 

0 

Joint Secretary to 
the Prime Minister 

Secretary to the 
Prime Minister. 



[No, F. 7/6/05-Eats (A).] 


HARISH CHANDRA, Under Secy, 

New Delhi, the 8th October , 1965 

8.0. 3169.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 77 of 
the Defence of India Rules, 1962, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Director of Civil Defence and Ftre Adviser to the Government of Maha- 
rashtra, Bombay, as the authority as whose disposal shall be placed such 
Of the Are fighting, water supply and conservancy services of the Port Authority 
of the Port of Bombay together with the personnel employed in operating such 
.services and the fire fighting personnel and appliances maintained by any owner 
or occupier of premises i n such ports as the said Director of Civil Defence and 
Fire Adviser may require. { , | 

rNo. 27/4/65-ER.] 
FATEH SINGH, Jt.. Secy.. 


New Delhi , the 11th October 1965 

8.0. 3J70. — In exercise of the powers conferred under entry 3 (cl of Schedule I, 
annexed to the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 15/13/59 (V) -P. IV, dated’ 
the 13th July, 1962 [G.S.R. 991, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
8, Sub-Section (it), dated the 28th July, 19621, the Central Government is pleased 
to specify Rajkumar Jayendra Singhji and Rajkumar Gajendra Singhji, sons of th* 
Rana Saheb of Kathiawara, for the purpose of that entry, and directs that the 
exemption shall be va'id in respect of one .12 bore gun, one rifle and one pistol/ 
revolver in each case, | 

INo, 16/11/65-P.IV.] 
G. L. BAILUB, Under Secy. 


nf facvft ii trwn:, i»65 

<rto 3i7i — ijfjfTUPT Tt 15 / 13/59 (V)-fr° IV, 

ftrrNfr 13 1962 (■firm t hpi II, 3 , hw* (II), 23 

1962 if Wrf'TcT HiRCT 'TrfHR'T ffqrr 9 9 l) T RUT cpft Tf?fr Tt 

ufafar 3 (f) hr ft i hh srftmff *rr tpt>t Tht ^ , Tiito wn, TTfiqrjr? £ wr 

RTffh T TTT TT iFhtT Tdf TUfhihK UR? fa? HV Tl T-fT gfhfe $ 

frri HJd UpThf Iq TTTt | TJl heft ^ f*F Tg BT JURF Tt hT- 1 2 htT iT?^, 
RATH ff-U TT fiolhr FT fTTfvhT T *TTT h HFj; I 

[d'wn 16/ll/65-TfHH-4] 

ufVo tJTfo 

HAT tffaT, RPCd RTTK ( 



Sac. 8(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1P65/ASVTNA 24, 1867 3359 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

Ne^o Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3172. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3BA 
qf the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government appoint# 
Shrl K. N, Parameswaran Plllal, Assistant Court Liquidator, to act as Court Liqui- 
dator attached to the High Court of Kerala for the purposes of the said section, 
Vice Shrl P. K. Varghese who proceeded on leave for 29 days from the 27th July 
to 24th August 1965. 


[Mo. F. 2(4)-BC/85.] 


S.O. 3173. — Whereas on the application of the Reserve Bank of India under 
*ub-section (1) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (Act 10 of 
1949), the Central Government has made an order of moratorium in respect of 
the Malnad Bank Ltd., Tarikere, under sub-section (2) of the said section. 


And whereas the Reserve Bank of India in exercisa of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (4) of section 45 of the said Act has nrenared a scheme for tha 
amalgamation of the Malnad Bank Ltd. with the State Bank of Mysore. 

And w T herea 3 the Reserve Bank after having sent the said scheme in draft 
to the banking companies concerned in accordance with the provisions of sub- 
section (6) of the said section and after having considered the suggestions and 
objections received in regard to the said scheme has modified that scheme and 
forwarded it to the Central Government for sanction. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) of secy 
tlon 45 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby sanctions the #chem* 
on and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned. 

(1) The Malnad Bank Ltd. shall be the transferor bank and the State Bank, 
of Mysore shall be the transferee bank. 

(2) As from the date which the Central Government may specify for this 
purpose under sub-section (7) of section 45 of the said Act (hereinafter referred 
to as the prescribed date) all rights, powers, claims, demands, interests, authori- 
ties, privileges, benefits, assets and properties of the transferor bank, movable 
and immovable, including premises subject to all incidents of tenure and to the 
rents and other sums of money and covenants reserved by or contained in the 
leases or agreements under which they are held, all office furniture, loose equip- 
ment, plant, apparatus and appliances, books, papers, stocks of sationery, other 
stocks and stores, all investments in stocks, shares and securities, all bills receiv- 
able in hand and in transit, all cash in hand and on current or deposit account 
(including money at call or short notice) with banks, bullion, all book debts, 
mortgage debts and other debts with the benefit of socu~ities, or any guarantee 
therefor, all other, if any, property rights and assets of every description in- 
cluding all rights of action and benefit of all guarantees in connection with th» 
business of the transferor bank shall, subject to the other provisions of this 
scheme stand transferred to, and become the properties and assets of, the trans- 
feree bank; and as from the prescribed date all the liabilities, duties and obliga- 
tions of the transferor bank shall be and shall become the liabilities, duties and 
obligations of the transferee bank to the extent and in the manner provided 
hereinafter. 


Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, all contracts, 
deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal representation and 
other Instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately 
before the prescribed date shall effective to the extent and in the manner 
hereinafter provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may b* 
acted upon as if instead of the transferor bank the transferee hank had bee_n 
a party thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of the transferee bank- 



3360 1 'tIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16 , 1965 /AiSVINA 24 , 1887 


[Part II— 


If on the prescribed date any suit, appeal or other legal proceeding of what- 
ever nature by or against the transferor bank is pending, the same shall not , 
abate, or be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected, but shall, sub- 
ject to the other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or 
against the transferee bank. 

If according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of this 
scheme, by themselves, are not effective to transferor vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor 
bank to or in the transferee bank, the affairs of the transferor bank in relation 
to sued asset or liability shall, on the prescribed date, stand entrusted to the 
chief executive officer for the time being of the transferee bnak and the chief 
executive officer may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as would 
have been exercised or done by the transferor bank for the purpose or effectively 
winding up its affairs. The chief executive officer shall take all such steps as 
may be required by the laws of any such country outside India for the purpose 
of effecting such transfer or vesting and in connection therewith the chief exe- 
cutive officer may either himself or through any person authorised by him In this 
behalf, realise any asset or discharge any liability of the transferor bank and 
transfer the net proceeds thereof to the transferee bank. 

(3) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and 
balance sheets prepared in tho first instance as at the close of business on the 
.5th June 1965 and thereafter as at the close of business on the date immediately 
preceding the prescribed date and the balance sheets shall be got audited and 
certified by a chartered accountant or a firm of chartered accountants approved 1 
or nominated by the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose. 

A copy each of the balance sheets of the transferor bank prepared in accord- 
ance with tho provisions of the foregoing paragraph, shall be filed by the trans- 
feror bank with the Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been ’ 
received and thereafter the transferor bank shall not be required to prepare 
‘balance sheets or profit and loss accounts, or to lay the same before its mem- 
bers or file copies thereof with the Registrar of Companies or to hold any annual 
.general meeting for the purpose of considering the balance sheet and accounts 
or for any other purpose or to comply with the provisions of section 159 of the 
Companies Act, 1956, and it shall not thereafter be necessary for the Board of 
Directors of the transferor bank to meet as required by section 285 of that Act. 

(4) I. The transferee bank shall, in consultation with the transferor bank, 
-value the property and assets and reckon the liabilities of the transferor bank 
an accordance with the following provisions, namely: — 

(a) Investments including Government securities shall be valued at the 
market rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the pres- 
cribed date provided that the securities of the Central Government 
such as Post Office Certificates, Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates 
and any other securities or certificates issued under the small sav- 
ings scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at their 
face value or the encashable value as on the said date, whichever Is 
higher. 

<b) Where the market value of any Government security such as the 
Zamindari Abolition Bonds or other similar security in respect of 
which the principal is payable in instalments is not ascertainable 
or is, for any reason, not considered as reflecting the fair value 
thereof or as otherwise appropriate, the security shall he valued at 
such an amount as is considered reasonable having regard to the 
instalments of principal and interest remaining to be paid, the 
period during which such instalments are payable, the yield of any 
security issued by the Government to which the security pertains 
and having the same or approximately the same maturity, and other 
relevant factors. 

(c) Where the market value of any security, share, debenture, bond or 
other investment is not considered reasonable by reason of its 
having been affected by abnormal factors, the investment may he 
valued on the basis of its average market value over any reasonable 
period. 



Sec. 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: OCTOBER ]0, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3361 


(d) Where the market value of any security, share, debenture, bond or 

other investment is not ascertainable, only such value, if any, shall 
be taken into account as is considered reasonable, having regard to 
the financial position of the issuing concern, the dividends paid by it 
during the preceding five years and other relevant factors. 

(e) Premises and all other immovable properties and any assets acquired 

in satisfaction of claims shall be valued at their market value. 

(f) Furniture and fixtures, stationery in stock and other assets, if any, shall 

be valued at the written clown value as per books or the realisable 
value as may be considered reasonable. 

(g) Advances, including hills purchased and discounted, books debts and 

sundry assets, will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the 
securities, including guarantees, held as cover therefor examined 
and verified by the transferee bank. Thereafter, the advances, in- 
cluding portions thci'eof, will be classified into two categories, 
namely “Advances considered good and readily realisable” ana 
“Advances considered not readily realisable and[or bad or doubtful 
of recovery.” 


II. Liabilities for purposes of tins scheme shall include all contingent liabili- 
ties which the transferee bank may reasonably be expected or required to meet 
out of its own resources on or after the prescribed date. 

III. Where the valuation of any asset cannot be determined on the prescribed 
date, it may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India, b" treated partly 
or wholly as an asset realisable at a later date. 


In the event of any disagreement between the transferee bank and the trans- 
feror bank as regards the valuation of any asset or the classification of any 
advance or the determination of any liability, the matter shall be referred to 
the Reserve Bank of India, whose opinion shall be final, provided that until 
such an opinion is received, the valuation of the item or portion thereof by the 
transferee bank shall provisionally be adopted for the purpose of this scheme. 

It shall be competent for the Reserve Bank iix the event of its becoming 
necessary to do so, to obtain such technical advice as it may consider to be 
appropriate in connection with the valuation of any such item of asset or deter- 
mination of any such item of liability, and the cost of obtaining such advice 
shall be payable in full out of the assets of the transferor bank. 

The valuation of the assets and the determination of the liabilities in accord- 
ance with the foregoing provisions shall be binding on both the banks and the 
members and creditors thereof. 

(5) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the assets of the 
transferor bunk to the transferee hank, the transferee bank shall discharge the 
liabilities of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and the succeed- 
ing paragraphs. 

(a) Any sums deposited by any employee of the transferor bank with that 
bank as staff security deposits together with interest, if any, accrued thereon upto 
the prescribed date and all other outside liabilities as on the prescribed date 
excluding deposits shall be paid or provided for in full. 


Explanation 

For the purposes of this paragraph, interest payable on a deposit up to the 
prescribed date shall be regarded as part of the concerned deposit. 

(bl In respect of every savings bank account or current account or any other 
deposit including a fixed deposit, cash certificate, monthly deposit, deposit Pay a f le 
at call or short notice or anv other deposit by whatever name called with the 
transferor bank and every other account not covered by clause (a), including 
interest to the extent payable under this scheme, the transferee bank shall open 
with itself on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar account m the 



3362 TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER IG, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 [Part II- 


name of the respective holder(s) thereof crediting thereto the pro rata share 
available in respect of each of the accounts out of the assets referred to in para- 
graph (4) as valued for the purposes of this scheme on the prescribed date, after 
excluding from the said assets as so valued the advances considered not readily 
realisable or bad or doubtful of recovery, any asset or portion of an asset not 
valued on the prescribed date and any amount needed for the payments or provi- 
sions mentioned at clause (a) above and after adding to the said assets as so 
valued the aggregate amount of the payments made in terms of clause (a)(i) of 
paragraph 2 of the moratorium order dated the 1st June 1965 issued to the trans- 
feror bank; 

Provided that any payment made from a deposit account on or after the 6th 
June 1965 and before the prescribed date, shall be reckoned towards the amount 
to be credited under this sub-paragraph and, accordingly the amount to be credit- 
ed shall be the p to rata share less the amount of such payment; 

Provided further that where the transferee bank entertains a reasonable 
doubt about the correctness of the entries made in any particular account, It 
may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank, withhold the credit to be made in 
that account in terms of clause (b) above till the transferee bank is able to 
ascertain the correct balance in such account. 


Explanation.— The term 'pro rata’ shall, insofar as it occurs In this paragraph 
mean ‘in proportion to the respective amounts remaining due as at the close of 
business on the 5th June, 1963 (inclusive of interest payable up to that date)’ 
and shall, insofar as it occurs elsewhere in this scheme, mean ‘in proportion to 
the respective amounts remaining due at the time of the payment or distribu- 
tion’. 


(c) After the credits referred to in clause (b) above have been afforded, the 

transferee bank shall, with the least possible delay but in any case not later 
than three months from the prescribed date, furnish to the Deposit Insurance 
Corporation established under the Deposit Insurance Corporation Acl, 1961 (here- 
inafter referred to as the Corporation) a list complying in all respects with the 
requirements of sub-section (1) of section 18 of that Act and thereafter when- 
ever amounts referred to in sub-section (2) of section 18 of that Act are received 
from the Corporation, the transferee bank shall credit each of the accounts 
referred to in clause (b) above, within seven days from the date or dates on 

Which the amounts are received, to the extent of the sums due to that account 

in accordance with sub-section (2) of section 18 of that Act: 

Provided that — 

(a) if any account referred to in clause (b) has been closed or has matur- 

ed for payment at the time when any amount for credit to that 
account is received from the Corporation, the payment to the person 
entitled to the said amount shall be made by the transferee bank in 
, cash; 

(b) in case the person entitled to any amount referred to in clause (b) 

cannot bo found or is not readily traceable, provision for the amount 
due to such person shall be made and accounted for separately on 

the books of the Corporation itself and it shall not be necessary for 

the Corporation to pay the amounts to the transferee bank unless 
the person entitled to the amount is found or traced and the Cor- 
poration has decided to make the payment in respect of that person 
through the transferee bank. 

(d) On the prescribed date, the entire amount of the paid-up capital and 
reserves of the. transferor bank shall be treated as provision for bad and doubt- 
ful debts and depreciation in other assets of the transferor bank and the rights 
of the members of the transferor bank shall, in relation to the transferee bank, 
be as provided for in paragraph (6) below. 

(6) In respect of 

(a) every account mentiohed in clause (b) of the preceding paragraph, the 
balance In the account, if any, remaining uncredited in terms of that 
clause and clause (c) and 



Sec, 3(H)] THE (GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER Jf>. 1905/ASVINA 24, L887 33 ^ 


(b) every share in the transferor bank, the amount which was treated aj 
paid-up towards share capital by or on behalf of each shareholder 
immediately before the prescribed date and or the amount paid OB 
account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance of 
clause (i) below 

shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as such on th* 
books of the transferee bank and payments against the account Bhall be mada 
In the following manner, namely: — 

(i) the transferee bank shall call upon every person who on the prescribed 
date was registered as the holder of a share in the transferor bank (or who would 
have been entitled to be so registered) to pay within three months from such 
date as may be specified the uncalled amount remaining unpaid by him In res- 
pect of such shares and the calls in arrears, if any, and the transferee bank shall 
take all available steps having regard to the circumstances of each case to demand 
and enforce the payment of the amounts due under this clause, together with, 
interest at six per cent per annum for the period of the default; 

(ii) the transferee bank shall, in respect of the advances, bills purchased and 
discounted, book debts and sundry debts and other assets, which are classified 
as "Advances considered not readily realisable and/or bad or doubtful of reco- 
very”, or which are or may be realisable wholly or partly after the prescribed 
date in terms of paragraph (4) above, take all available steps having regard 
to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce payment, provided, 
however, that if the amount of a debt or asset exceeds Rs. 2,000, the transferee 
bank shall not, except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India, 

(a) enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other- 

person or write off any such debt or asset; 

(b) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it or any 

asset taken over by it; 


(iii) the transferee bank shall in addition take all available steps having 
regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the payment 
of the amounts, if any, awarded as damages by the High Court against any 
promoter, director, manager or other officer of the transferor bank under sec- 
tion 45L of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 read with section 45H thereof and 
also with section 543 of the Companies Act, 1956; 

(lv) the transferee bank, may, out of the realisations effected by it on account, 
of the items mentioned in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, make payment or 
provision in respect of any contingent liability to the extent that the provision 
made therefor under paragraph (5) (a) proves to be inadequate, as also, with 
the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, in respect of any liability whether con- 
tingent or absolute which was not assessed in tei'ms of paragraph (4) above and 
has arisen or been discovered on or alter the prescribed date; 


(v) the transferee bank shall, out of the realisations effected by it on account 
of the items mentioned in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above after deducting there- 
from the expenditure incurred for the purpose and, with the approval of th# 
Reserve Bank of India, such other expenses as may be considered reasonable and 
the amount appropriated therefrom in terms of clause (iv) above, or out of the 
balance, if any, which may be available from out of the provision in respect of 
contingent liabilities as reckoned for the purposes of this scheme after the extent 
of such liabilities has finally been ascertained, 

(a) pay to the Corporation the amount received by the transferee bank 

from the Corporation under sub-section (2) of section 18 of the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 and the amount, if any, pro- 
vided for by the Corporation; and 

(b) pay, in the case of depositors in respect of whom no amounts have 

been received by the transferee bank from the Corporation, th* 
amounts due in respect of the collection accounts, and in the case 
of depositors in respect of whom any amounts have been received by 
the transferee bank from the Corporation or have been provided for 




[Past Jl— 


3364 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOHER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 


by the Corporation the balance if any due to them in their collec- 
tion accounts after the amounts due from the said accounts to the 
Corporation in respect of the payment _made or provided for by the 
Corporation have first been paid in accordance with the provisions of 
sub-clause (a) above. 


Provided that the amount due to the Corporation shall, if it becomes necessary 
so to do, be provided for on the books of the transferee bank and be paid to 
the Corporation in the manner specified in clause (b) of regulation 22 of the 
deposit Insurance Corporation General Regulations, 19(51. 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall make the payments referred 
to in clause (b) above, — • 

(i) if the corresponding' or similar account mentioned in clause (b) of 

paragraph (5) has not been closed or has not matured for payment, 
by credit to that account, and 

(ii) if the said account has been closed or has matured for payment in cash; 


(vi) the amounts due to the Corporation in terms of sub-clause la,' of clause 
<v) above and the amounts due to the collection accounts of the depositors in 
terms of sub-clause (b) of that clause shall rank equally among themselves, and 
if they cannot be paid in full shall abate in equal proportions; 

(vii) After the payments referred to in clause (v) of this paragraph have been 
made or provided for in full, the transferee bank shall, out of the balance of the 
amounts referred to in clause (v) which may be available to it, make payments 
pro rata towards the amounts, if any, due to the accounts of tb? former share- 
holders of the transferor bank- 

Provided that the transferee bank shall give to pay person to whom any pay- 
ment may be due under this clause such reasonable notice, not exceeding three 
months and not being less than one month as it may consider appropriate of the 
payment being due, and 

(a) if during the period of this notice a request has not been received in 

writing for tne payment of tbe amount due in cash and if the amount 
of the payment due is also not less than the highest closing price of 
an ordinary share In the transferee bank as quoted on any recognised 
stock exchange on or immediately before the date on which the 
notice is issued, or where the ordinary share of the transferee bank 
is not quoted on any recognised stock exchange the price of the 
share as determined by the Reserve Bank, the transferee bank shall 
allot to the payee a share or shares in the transferee bank to the 
extent possible and disburse in cash the balance, if any, of the 
amount which may be due; and 

(b) if the conditions mentioned in sub-clause (a) above are not fulfilled 

the transferee bank shall disburse the amount in cash, 


Provided further that — 

(a) the allotment of the shares or the payments aforesaid shall in each case 
be made before the end of six months from the date on Which notice 
of the payment falling due is deemed to have been served in accord- 
ance with tbe provisions o-f this scheme; and 

'(b) the share capital of tbe transferee bank shall be deemed to have been 
increased, and notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment, 
regulation or other instrument, it shall also be lawful for the trans- 
feree bank to issue the shares, in the manner and to the extent speci- 
fied for the purposes of this scheme; 

(viii) the amounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this paragraph 
■shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only to the extent pro- 
vided for in this scheme; 



Sec. 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1965/A, SV1NA U, 1S87 3363 


(ix) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 
period as the Central Government after consulting the Reserve Bank of India 
may specify for this purpose, any item referred to in clause (ii) of this paragraph 
which may not have been realised by that date shall be valued by the transferee 
bank in consultation with the Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distri- 
bute any amount or amounts determined in the light of that valuation after de- 
ducting therefrom first any sum necessary for meeting the liabilities referred to 
in clause (iv) of this paragraph which may remain unsatisfied as on that date in 
the order and the manner provided in clauses (vi, (vi) and (vii) above. 

(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing paragraphs, the allot- 
ment of shares under this scheme shall not be made in such a manner that. — 

(i) the State Bank of India holds at any time less than flftyfive per cent 

of the issued capital of the transferee bank; or 

(ii) any person other than the State Bank of India, a State Government, a 

Corporation, an insurer as defined in the Insurance Act, 1938, a local 
authority, a co-operative society or a trustee of a public or private 
religious or charitable trust, comes to be registered as a shareholder, 
whether in his own name or jointly with any other person, of more 
than two hundred shares In the transferee bank; 

and for securing the above, the number of shares issuable tn any person under 
this scheme, shall if necessary, be reduced proportionately, payment being made 
m cash insteud of in shares to that extent. 


(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract, ex- 
press or implied, no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other liability 
in any account mentioned in paragraphs (5) and (6) after the date of the mora- 
torium except in respect of the staff security deposits mentioned in paragraph 
(5) (a) and interest shall be paid only in respect of the new accounts opened with 
the transferee bank in terms of paragraph (5) and credited in accordance with 
the provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only at such rates 
as the transferee bank may allow. 

(9) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transieree bank in respect 
of any liability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed by 
this scheme. 

(10) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central Govern- 
ment, the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor banks for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this 
scheme. 

(11) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in the 
schedule referred to in the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service and be 
deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same remuneration 
and on the same termi and conditions of service as were applicable to such 
employees immediately before the 6th June 1965. 

Provided that the employees of the transferor bank who have, by notice in 
writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any time before the 
expiry of one month nt xt following the date on which this scheme has been 
sanctioned by the Central Government, intimated their intention of not becom- 
ing employees of the transferee bank, shall be entitled to the payment of such 
compensation, if any, under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
and such pension, gratuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits as may 
be ordinarily admissible under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 6th June 1965. 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall in respect of the employees of 
the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as employees of the 
transferee bank be deemed also to have taken over liability for the payment of 
retrenchment compensation in the event of their being retrenched while in the 
service of the transferee bank on the basis that their service has been continuous 
and has not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferee bank. 



336 6 the gazette of India : October is, 19«s/ajsvina 24, 1887 [Fa»? n— 


(12) The persons specified In the schedule annexed to this scheme shall on th* 
prescribed date cease to be the employees of the transferor bank and notwith- 
•tending anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any agree- 
ment of contract, the persons so specified shall be entitled to and only to such 
pension, gratuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits as may he ordi- 
narily admissible to them under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 0th June 1965. 


Provided that the compensation If any for the loss of employment, so far as it 
relates to the unexpired portion of any contract of service, shall be such and 
only such as may be determined by the Reserve Bank (whose determination In 
this respect shall be final and binding). 


Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the transferee- 
bank from re-employing any person whose name has been specified in the 
schedule annexed to this scheme in such capacity and on such terms and condi- 
tions as the transferee bank may deem fit. 


(13) The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than 
three years from the date on which this scheme is sanctioned, pay or grant to 
tne employees of th - *. unsferor bank the same remuneration and the some term* 
and conditions of s_rv:ce as are applicable to the employees of corresponding 
rank or status ol' the tr; nsferee bank subject to the qualifications and experience 
of the said employees of the transferor bank being the same as or equivalent to 
those of such other employees of the transferee bank. 


Provided that if any doubt or difference arises as to whether the qualifica- 
tions or experience of any of the said employees are the same as or equivalent 
to the qualifications and experience of the other employees of corresponding rank 
or status of the transferee bank or as to the procedure or principles to be adopted 
for the fixation of the pay of the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee 
bank, the doubt or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of Indyr 
whose decision thereon shall be final. 

(14) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for th* 
employees of the transferor bank or as the case may be the transferor bank shall 
on or as soon as possible after the prescribed date transfer to the trustees of the 
employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank, or otherwise as th* 
transferee bank may direct, all the monies and investments held in trust for th* 
benefit of the employees of the transferor bank, 


Provided that such latter trustees shall not be liable for any deficiency In th* 
value of investments, or in respect of any act, neglect, or default done befor* 
the prescribed date, 

(15) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such state- 
ments and information as may be required by the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time regarding the implementation of this scheme. 


(1G) Any notice or other communication required to be given by the trans- 
feree bank shall be considered to be duly given, if addressed and sent by pre- 
paid ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the books of th* 
transferor bank, until a new address is registered in the books of the transferee 
bank, and such notice shall be deemed to be served on the expiry of fortyeight 
hours after it has been posted. Any notice or communication which is of general 
interest shall be advertised in addition in one or more dally newspapers which 
may be in circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting its 
business. 

(17) If any doubt arises in interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India and its opinion shall b* 
conclusive and binding on both the transferee and the transferor banks, and also 
on all the members, depositors and other creditors and employees of each of these 
banks and on any other person having any rights or liability In relation to any of 
these banks. 



Stc. s (fi)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 19G5/ASVINA 21, 1837 3367 


(18) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this scheme, 
the Central Government may issue to the transferor and the transferee banks or 
to either of them such directions not inconsistent with this scheme as may appear 
to the Central Government, after consulting the Reserve Bank of India, to b« 
necessary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the difficulty. 

Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of 
the Malnad Bank Ltd. as sanctioned by the Central Government under sub-section 
(7) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (If) of 1949). 


Name of the employee Designation in the transferor bank 


I. Shri K. S, Subrahmanya Chief Executive Officer, 

t. Shri N. Timmappalah Manager, Head Office. 


[Wo. F 17(13)-BC/05.1 


S.O. 3174. — In pursuance of sub-section (7) of section 45 of the Banking Com- 
panies Act, 1949 (10 of 19491, the Central Government hereby specifies the Gth 

October, 1965 as the prescribed date in relation to the scheme for the amalgamation 
Of the Malnad Bank Ltd. with the State Bank of Mysore which has been sanction- 
ed by the Central Government under the provisions of the said sub-section. 

[No. F. 17(13)-BC/65 (1).] 


New Delhi, the 7th October 1965 

S.O. 3175. — Whereas on the application of the Reserve Bank of India under sub- 
jection (1) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (Act 10 of 1949) th* 
Central Government has made an order of moratorium in respect of the Josna Bank 
Ltd., Cochin, under sub-section (2) of the said section. 

And whereas the Reserve Bank of India In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 45 of the said Act has prepared a scheme for the amal- 
gamation of the Josna Bank Ltd., Cochin with the Lord Krishna Bank Ltd., 
Cranganore. 

And whereas the Reserve Bank after having sent the suid scheme in draft to 
the banks concerned in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of the 
said section and after having considered the suggestions and objections received 
In regard to the said scheme has modilled that scheme and forwarded it to the 
Central Government for sanction. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) of 
section 45 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby sanctions the scheme 
cm and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned. 

(1) The Josna Bank Ltd. shall be the transferor bank and the Lord Krishna 
Bank Ltd. shall be the transferee bank, 

(2) As from the date which the Central Government may specify for this pur- 
pose under sub-section (7) of section 45 of the said Act (hereinafter referred to M 
the prescribed date) all rights, powers, claims, demands, interests, authorities, pri- 
vileges, benefits, assets and properties of the transferor bank, movable and im- 
movable, including premises subject to all incidents of tenure and to the rents and 
other sums of money and covenants reserved by or contained in the leases or 
agreements under which they are held, all office furniture, loose equipment, plant, 
apparatus and appliances, books, papers, stocks of stationery, other stocks and 
stores, all investments in stocks, shares and securities, all bills receivable in hand 
and in transit, all cash in hand and In current or deposit account (including money 
at call or short notice) with banks, bullion, all book debts, mortgage debts and 
other debts with the benefit of securities, or any guarantee therefor, all other, if 
any, property rights and assets of every description Including all rights of action 
and benefit of all guarantees In connection with the business of the transferor bank 
riball, Subject to the other provisions of this scheme, stand transferred to, and 



3368 r HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 


[Pam O- 


become the properties and assets of, the transferee bank; and as from the pres- 
cribed date ad the liabilities, duties and obligations of the transferor bank shall be 
and shall become the liabilities, duties and obligations of the transferee bank to 
the extent and in the manner provided hereinafter. 

Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, all contracts, 
deeds, bonds, agreements, powers of attorney, grants of legal representation and 
other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately 
before the prescribed date shall bo effective to the extent and in the manner here- 
inafter provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may be acted 
upon as if instead of the transferor bank the transferee bank had been a party 
thereto or as if they had been issued iti favour of the transferee bank. 


If on the prescribed date any suit, appeal or other legal proceeding of whatever 
nature by or against the transferor bank is pending, the same shall not abate, or 
be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected, but shall, subject to the 
other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or against the 
transferee bank. 


If the transferor bank was acting immediately before the prescribed date as a 
foreman in respect of any chiL fund, the lights, duties and obligations in relation 
to the chit fund shall be regulated in accordance vvith the following provisions, 
namely : — 

(i) the transferee bank shall become the foreman of the chit fund and shall 
continue to exercise all powers and to do all such acts and things as 
would have been exercised or done by the transferor bank, in so far 
as they are not inconsistent with this scheme; 

fli) the funds, if any, of the chit fund lent to or deposited with tile transferor 
bank, or otherwise due from that bank to the chit fund, shall be 
transferred to the transferee bank and the liabilities corresponding to 
such funds shall also be payable by the transferee bank in accordance 
with the other provisions of this scheme; 

(iti) if on the prescribed date the transferor bank in its capacity as the fore- 
man of any chit fund had deposited any security for the due perfor- 
mance of its duties and obligations in relation to the said chit fund, 
the said security shall continue to be available for the purposes for 
which it was intended, but shall if and to the extent that it is subse- 
quently released he transferred to and vest in the transferee bank 
provided that the said security or as the case may be the surplus, if 
any, after providing for the discharge of the duties or obligations in 
respect of the chit fund shall be valued and utilised for the purposes 
of this scheme; 

(iv) notwithstanding anything contained In the Travancore Chitties Act, XXVI 

of 1120 or the Cochin Kuries Act, VII of 1107, the suspension by the 
transferor bank of any chit fund or kurl during the period from the 
close uf business oil the 12th June 1965 up to and inclusive of the 12th 
October 1965 or for any part of that period, and any consequent pro- 
longation of the chit fund or kuri shall have effect as though the 
articles in the variola or variolas or vaimpu or vaipus were altered or 
added to for that purpose by a special resolution or special resolutions 
of the subscribers of the chit fund or kuri and as though the relevant 
provisions, if any, of the Travancore Chitties Act or the Cochin 
Kuries Act were complied with. And notwithstanding anything con- 
tained in the Travancore Chitties Act or the Cochin Kuries Act the 
failure of the foreman to conduct the chit fund or kuri during the said 
peiiol, or to disburse prize amounts to prized subscribers, shall not 
be deemed to have terminated the chit fund or kuri; 

(v) notwithstanding anything contained in the variola or variolas or vaimpu 

or vaimpus the period fixed for the duration of the chit fund or kuri 
shall he deemed to have been extended by the period referred to in 
the previous sub-paragraph; 

(vi) notwithstanding anything contained in the Travancore Chitties Act or 

the Cochin Kuries Act the Lord Krishna Bank Ltd., shall continue the 
chit fund or kuri as if the provisions, if any, of the said Act relating 
to continuance of the chit fund or kuri have been complied with; and 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; OCTOBER 16 , 1 ‘J 6 j/A.S\'INA 24 , 16873369: 


(vll) all the words and expressions" us'ed in the preceding sub-clauses but not 
delined shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in th« 
Travancore Chitties Act or Cochin Kuries Act. 

If according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of thU 
echeme, by themselves, are not effective to transfer or vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor bank 
to or in the transferee bank, the affairs of the transferor bank in relation to such 
asset or liability shall, on the prescribed date, stand entrusted to the chief execu- 
tive officer for the time being of the transferee bank and the chief executive officer 
may exercise all powers and do all such acts and things as would have been exer- 
cised or done by the transferor bank for tho purpose of effectively winding up its 
affairs. The chief executive officer shall take all such steps as may be required 
by the laws of any such country outside India for the purpose of effecting such 
transfer or vesting and in connection therewith the chief executive officer may 
either himself or through any person authorised by him in this behalf, realise any 
asset or discharge any liability of the transferor bank and transfer the net proceeds 
thereof to the transferee bank. 

(3) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and balance 
sheets prepared in the first, instance as at the close of business on the 12lh June 
1965 and 1 here niter as at the close of business on tho date immediately preceding 
the pxescij :ed date and the balance sheets shall be got audited and certified by a 
chartered accountant or a firm of chartered accountants approved or nominated by 
the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose. 

A copy each of the balance sheets of the transferor bank prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, shall be filed by the transferor 
bank with Ihe Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been received 
and thereafter the transferor bank shall not be required to prepare balance sheets 
or profit and loss accounts, or to lay the same before its members or file copies 
thereof with the Registrar of Companies or to hold any annual general meeting 
for the purpose of considering the balance sheet, and accounts or for any other 
purpose or 10 comply with the provisions of section 159 of the Companies Act, 1956, 
and it shell nut thereafter be necessary for the Board of Directors of the transferor 
bank to meet as required by section 285 of that Act. 

(4) T. The transferee hank shall, in consultation with' the transferor bank, value 
the property and assets and reckon the liabilities of the transferor bank in accord- 
ance with tho following provisions, namely: — 

(a) Investments Including Government securities shall be valued at the market 
rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the prescribed date provided 
that the securities of the Central Government such as Post Office Certificates, 
Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates and any other securities or certificates ipsued 
under the small savings scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at 
their face value or the eneashablc value as on the said date, whichever is higher. 

(b) Where the market value of any Government security such as the Zamindari 
Abolition Bonds or other similar security in respect of which the principal Is pay- 
able in instalments is not ascertainable or is, for any reason, not considered as 
reflecting the fair value thereof or as otherwise appropriate, the security shall bo 
valued at such an amount os is considered reasonable having regard to the instal- 
ments of principal and interest remaining to be paid, the period during which such 
instalments are payable, 'he yield of. any security issued by the Government to 
which tho security pertains and having the same or approximately the sama 
maturity, and other relevant factors. 

(c) Where the market value of any security, share, debenture, bond or other 
investment is not considered reasonable by reason of its having been affected by 
abnormal factors, the investment may be value on the basis of its average market 
value over any reasonable period. 

(d) Where the market value of any security, share, debenture, bond or other 
investment is not ascertainable, only such value, if any, shall be taken into account 
as is considered reasonable, having regard to the financial position of the issuing 
concern, the dividends paid by It during the preceding live years and other relevant 
factors. 

(e) Premises and all other immovable properties and any assets acquired in 
satisfaction of claims shall be valued at their market value. 



3373 the gazette of India : October 10 , 1965/asvina 74 , 1887 


[Part II— 


(f) Furniture and fixtures, stationery In stock and other assets, if any, shall bo 
valued at the written down value as per books or the realisable value as may be 
Considered reasonable. 

(g) Advances, including bills purchased and discounted, book debts and sundry 
assets, will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the securities, including 

f uarantees, held as cover therefor examined and verified by the transferee bank, 
hereafter, the advances, including portions thereof, will be classified into two 
categories, namely "Advances considered good and readily realisable” and "Ad- 
vances considered not readily realisable and/or bad or doubtful of recovery.” 

II. Liabilities for purposes of this scheme shall include all contingent liabilities 
which the transferee bank may reasonably be expected or required to meet out of 
its own resources on or after the prescribed date. 

III. Where the valuation of any asset cannot be determined on the prescribed 
date, it may, with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India, be treated partly or 
wholly as an asset realisable at a later date. 

In the event of any disagreement between the transferee bank and the trans- 
feror bank as regards the valuation of any asset or the classification of any advance 
or the determination of any liability, the matter shall be referred to the Reserve 
'Bank of India, whose opinion shall be final, provided that until such an opinion is 
received, the valuation of the Item or portion thereof by the transferee bank shall 
provisionally be adopted for the purpose of i his scheme. 

It shall be competent for the Reserve Bank in the event of its becoming neces- 
sary to do so, to obtain such technical advire as it may consider to be appropriate 
in connection with the valuation of any such item of asset or determination »f any 
such item of liability, and the cost of obtaining such advice shall be payable in full 
■out of the assets of the transferor bank. 

The valuation of the assets and the determination of the liabilities In accord- 
ance with the foregoing provisisns shall be binding on both the banks and the 
members and credit'.*; thereof. 

(5) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the assets of the trans- 
feror bank to the transferee bank, the transferee bank shall discharge the liabilities 
of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and the succeeding para- 
graphs. 

(a) Any sums deposited by any employee of the transferor bank with that bank 
as staff security deposits together with interest, if any, accrued thereon upto the 
prescribed date and all other outside liabilities as on the prescribed date excluding 
deposits shall be paid or provided for in full. 

Explanation, — For the purposes of this paragraph, interest payable on a deposit 
up to the prescribed date shall be regarded as part of the concerned deposit. 

(b) In respect of every savings bank account or current account or any other 
deposit including a fixed deposit, cash certificate, monthly deposit, deposit payable 
at call or short notice or any other deposit by whatever name called with the 
transferor bank and every other account not covered by clause (a), including in- 
terest to the extent payable under this scheme, the transferee bank shall open with 
Itself on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar account in the name of 
the respective holder(s) thereof crediting thereto the pro rata share available in 
respect of each of the accounts out of the assets referred to In paragraph (4) as 
valued for the purposes of this scheme on the prescribed date, after excluding from 
the said assets as so valued the advances considered not readily realisable or bad 
or doubtful of recovery, any asset or portion of an asset not valued on the pres- 
cribed date and any amount needed for the payments or provisions mentioned at 
clause (a) above and after adding to the said assets as so valued the aggregate 
amount of the payments made in terms of clause (a)(1) of paragraph 2 of the 
moratorium order dated the 9th June 1965 issued to the transferor bank: 

Provided that any payment made from a deposit account on or after the 13th 
June 1965 and before the prescribed date, shall be reckoned towards the amount 
to be credited under this sub-paragraph and, accordingly the amount to be credited 
*hall be the pro rata share less the amount of such payment : 

Provided further that where the transferee hank entertains a reasonable doubt 
about the correctness of the entries made in any particular account, it may, with 
the approval of the Reserve Bank, withhold the credit to be made in that account 



Sec, S (U}} 


THE GA^TTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 10, 1905/ASVINA 1807 3371 


In terms of clause (b) above till the transferee bank Is able to ascertain the correct 
balance In such account. 

Explanation . — The term 'pro rata’ shall, insofar as It occurs in this paragraph, 
mean ‘in proportion to the respective amounts remaining due as at the close of 
business on the 12th June 1905 (inclusive of interest payable up to that date)’ and 
shall, insofar as it occurs elsewhere in this scheme, mean ‘in proportion to the 
respective amounts remaining due at the time of the payment or distribution’. 

(c) After the credits referred to in clause (b) above have been afforded, the 
transferee bank shall, with the least possible delay but in any case not later than 
three months from the prescribed date, furnish to the Deposit Insurance Corpora- 
tion established under the Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 (hereinafter 
referred to as the Corporation) a list complying in all respects with the require- 
ments of sub-section (1) of section 18 of that Act and thereafter whenever amounts 
referred to in sub-section (2) of section 18 of that Act are received from the Cor- 
poration, the transferee bank shall credit each of the accounts referred to in clause 
(b) above, within seven days from the date or dates on which the amounts are 
received, to the extent of the sums due to that account in accordance with sub- 
section (2) of section 18 of that Act: 

Provided that — 

(a) if any account referred to in clause (b) has been closed or has matured 

for payment at the time when any amount for credit to that account 
is received from the Corporation, the payment to the person entitled 
to the said amount shall be made by the transferee bank in cash; 

(b) in case the person entitled to any amount referred to in clause (b) can- 

not be found or is not readily traceable, provision for the amount due 
to such person shall be made and accounted for separately on the 
books of the Corporation Itself and it. shall not be necessary for the 
Corporation to pay the amounts to the transferee bank unless the 

E erson entitled to the amount is found or traced and the Corporation 
as decided to make the payment in respect of that person through 
the transferee bank. 

(d) On the prescribed date, the entire amount of the paid-up capital and 
reserves of the transferor bank shall be treated as provision for bad and doubtful 
debts and depreciation In other assets of the transferor bank and the rights of the 
members of the transferor bank shall, in relation to the transferee bank, be as 
provided for in paragraph (0) below. 

(6) In respect of— 

(a) every account mentioned in clause (b) of the preceding paragraph, the 
balance in the account, if any, remaining uncredited in terms of that 
clause and clause (c) and 

(b) every share In the transferor bank, the amount which was treated as 
paid-up towards share capital by or on behalf of each shareholder 
Immediately before the prescribed date and/or the amount paid on 
account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance of 
clause (i) below. 

shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as such on the books 
of the transferee bank and payments against the account shall be made in the 
following manner, namely: — 

(i) the transferee bank shall call upon every person who on the prescribed 
date was registered as the holder of a share in the transferor bank 
(or who would have been entitled to be so registered) to pay within 
three months from such date as may be specified the uncalled amount 
remaining unpaid by him in respect of such shares and the calls in 
arrears, if any, and the transferee bank shall take all available steps 
having regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce 
the payment of the amounts due under this clause, together with 
interest at six per cent per annum for the period of the default; 

(ii) the transferee bank shall, in respect of the advances, bills purchased and 
discounted, book debts and sundry debts and other assets, which are 
classified as “Advances considered not readily realisable and/or bad 
or doubtful of recovery”, or which are or may be realisable wholly or 
partly after the prescribed date in terms of paragraph (4) above, take 
all available steps having regard to the circumstances of each case to 
demand and enforce payment, provided, however, that if the amount 




[P^Rv II 


3372 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1S65/A5VINA 24/1887 


of a debt or asset exceeds Rs. 2,000, the transferee bank shall not, 
except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India,— 

(a; enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other 
person or write off any such debt or asset; 

(b) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it or any 
asset taken over by it; 

(ill; the transferee bank shal! In addition take all available steps having 
regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the 
payment of the amounts, if any, awarded ns damages by the High 
Court against any promoter, director, manager or other oilicer of the 
transferor hank under section 45L of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 
read with section 45H thereof and also with section 643 of the Com- 
panies Act, 1956; 

(tv) the transferee bank, may, out of the realisations effected by it on account 
of the items mentioned in clauses (i), (ii; and (iii) above, make pay- 
ment or provision in respect of any contingent liability to the extent 
that the provision made therefor under paragraph (5)(a) proves to be 
inadequate, as also, with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, in 
respect of any liability whether contingent or absolute which was not 
assessed in terms of paragraph (4) above and has arisen or been dis- 
covered on or after the prescribed date; 

(v) the transferee bank shall, out of the realisations effected by it on account 
of the items mentioned in clauses (1), (ii) and (iii) above after deduct- 
ing therefrom the expenditure incurred for the purpose and, with the 
approval of the Reserve Bank of India, such other expenses as may be 
considered reasonable and the amount appropriated therefrom in 
terms of clause (iv) above, or out of the balance, if any, which may 
be available from out of the provision in respect of contingent lia- 
bilities as reckoned for the purposes of this scheme after the extent of 
such liabilities has finally been ascertained, 

(a) pay to the Corporation the amount received by the transferee bank 

from the Corporation under sub-section (2) of section 18 of the 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961 and the amount, if any, 
provided for by the Corporation; and 

(b) pay, in the case of depositors In respect of whom no amounts have 

been received by the transferee bank from the Corporation, the 
amounts due in respect o' the collection accounts, and in the case 
of depositors in respect of whom any amounts have been received 
by the transferee bank from the Corporation or have been provided 
for by the Corporation the balance if any due to them in their 
collection accounts after the amounts due from the said accounts to 
the Corporation in respect of the payment made or provided for by 
the Corporation have first been paid in accordance with the provi- 
sions of sub-clause (a) above. 

Provided that the amount due to the Corporation shall, if it become necessary 
so to do, be provided for on the books of the transferee bank and be paid to the 
Corporation in the manner specified in clause (b) of regulation 22 of the Deposit 
Insurance Corporation General Regulations, 196J. 

Provided further that the transferee hank shall make the payments referred 
to In clause (b) above, — 

(i) if the corresponding or similar account mentioned in clause (b) of 
paragraph (5) has not been closed or has not matured for payment, 
by credit to that account, and 

(ii) if the said account has been closed or has matured for payment in cash; 

(vi) the amounts duo to the Corporation in terms of sub-clause (a) of 

clause (v) above and the amounts due to the collection accounts 
of the depositors in terms of sub-clause (b) of that clause shall 
rank equally among themselves, and if they cannot be paid in full 
shall abate in equal proportions; 

(vii) After the payments referred to in clause (v) of this paragraph have 

been made or provided for in lull, the transferee bank shall, out 
of the balance of the amounts referred to in clause (v) which may 



Sec. 3(ii)]' 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3373 


be available to it, make payments pro rata towards the amounts, 
if any, due to the accounts of the former shareholders of the trans- 
feror bank. 

Provided, that the transferee bank shall give to any person to whom any pay- 
ment may be due under this clause such reasonable notice, not exceeding three 
months and not being less than one month as it may consider appropriate of the 
payment being due, and 

(a) if during the period of this notice a request has not been received in 

writing for the payment of the amount due in cash and if the amount 
of the payment due is also not less than the highest closing price of 
an ordinary share in the transferee bank as quoted on any recognis- 
ed stock exchange on or immediately before the date on which the 
notice is issued, or where the ordinary share of the transferee bank 
is not quoted on any recognised stock exchange the price of the share 
as determined by the Reserve Bank, the transferee bank shall allot 
to the payee a share or shares in the transferee bank to the extent 
possible and disburse in cash the balance, if any, of the amount 
which may be due; and 

(b) if the conditions mentioned in sub-clause (a) above are not fulfilled 

the transferee bank shall disburse the amount in cash. 

Provided further that — 

(a) the allotment of the shares or the payments aforesaid shall in each 

case be made before the end of six months from the date on which 
notice of the payment falling due is deemed to have been served in 
accordance with the provisions of this scheme; and 

(b) the share capital of the transferee bank shall be deemed to have been 

increased, and notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment, re- 
gulation or other instrument, it shall also be lawful for the transferee 
bank to issue the shares, in the manner and to the extent specified 
for the purposes of this scheme; 

(viii) the amounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this para- 
graph shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only 
to the extent provided for in this scheme; 

(ix) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 
period as the Central Government after consulting the Reserve 
Bank of India may specify for this purpose, any item referred to 
in clause (ii) of this paragraph which may not have been realised 
by that date shall be valued by the transferee bank in consultation, 
with the Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distribute any 
amount or amounts determined in the light of that valuation after 
deducting therefrom first any sum necessary for meeting the 
liabilities referred to in clause (iv) of this paragraph which may 
remain unsatisfied as on that date in the order and the manner pro- 
vided in clauses (v), (vi) and (vii) above. 

(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract, ex- 
press or implied, no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other liability 
in any account mentioned in paragraphs (5) and' (6) after the date of the mora- 
torium except in respect of the staff security deposits mentioned in paragraph 
(5) (a) and interest shall be paid only in respect of the new accounts opened 
with the transferee bank in terms of paragraph (5) and credited in accordance 
with the provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only at such 
rates as the transferee bank may allow. 

(8) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to- 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transferee bank in respect 
of any liability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed by 
this scheme. 

(9) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Central Govern- 
ment. the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor banks for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this 
scheme. 

CIO) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in 
the schedule referred to in the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service and 
be deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same remunera- 
tion and on the same terms and conditions of service as were applicable to such 
employees immediately before the 13th June, 1965. 



3574 THE GAZEIfrF - or INDIA : OCTOBER 16. 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 [Part II- 


Provided that the employees of the transferor bank who have, by notice in 
writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any time before the ex- 
piry of one month next following the date on which this scheme has been sanc- 
tioned by the Central Government, intimated their intention of not becoming 
employees of the transferee bank, shall be entitled to the payment of such com- 
pensation, if any, under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and 
such pension, gratuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be 
ordinarily admissible under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 13th June 1965. 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall in respect of the employees of 
the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as employees of the 
transferee bank be deemed also to have taken over liability for the payment of 
retrenchment compensation in the event of their being retrenched while in the 
service of the transferee bank on the basis 'that their service has been continuous 
and has not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferee bank. 

(11) The persons specified in the schedule annexed to this scheme shall on the 
prescribed date cease to be the employees of the transferor bank and notwithstand- 
ing anything contained In any law for the time being in force or any agreement or 
contract, the presons so specified shall be entitled to and only to such pension, gra- 
tuity, provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be ordinarily admissi- 
ble to them under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank immediately 
before the 13th .Tune 1965. 

Provided that the compensation if any for the loss of employement, so far as 
it relates to the unexpired portion of any contract of service, shall be such and 
only such as may be determined by the Reserve Bank (whose determination in 
this respect shall be final and binding). 

Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the transferee 
bank from re-cmploying any person whose name has been specified in the sche- 
dule annexed to this scheme hi such capacity and on such terms and conditions 
as the transferee bank may deem fit. 

(12) The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than three 
years from the date on which this scheme is sanctioned, pay or grant to the em- 
ployees of the transferor bank the same remuneration and the same terms and 
conditions of service as arc applicable to the employees of corresponding rank or 
status of the transferee bank subject to the qualifications and experience of the 
said employees of the transferor bank being the same as or equivalent to those 
of such other employees of the transferee bank. 

Provided that if any doubt or difference arises as to whether the quabfications 
or experience of any of the said employees are the same as or equivalent to the 
qualifications and experience of the other employees of corresponding rank or 
status of the transferee bank or as to the procedure or principles to be adopted 
for the fixation of the pay of the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee 
bank, the doubt or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose 
decision thereon shall be final. 

(13) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for ihe 
employees of the transferor bank or as the case may be the transferor bank shall 
on or as soon as possible after the prescribed date transfer to the trustees of the 
employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank, or otherwise as 
the transferee bank may direct, all the monies and investments held In trust for 
the benefit of the employees of the transferor bank. 

Provided that such latter trustees shall not he liable for any deficiency in the 
value of investments, or In respect of any act, neglect, or default done before the 
prescribed date. 

(14) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such 
statements and information as may be required by the Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time regarding the implementation of this scheme. 

(15) Any notice or other communication required to be given by the transferee 
hank shall be considered to be duly given, if addressed and sent by pre-paid 
ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the hooks of the trans- 
feror bank, until a new address is registered in the books of the transferee bank, 
and such notice shall be deemed to be served on the expiry of fortyeight hours 
after it has been posted. Any notice or communication which is of general interest 
shall he advertised in addition in one or more daily newspapers which may be m 
circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting its business. 



Sec. S(U>] 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : OCTOBER 16, T965/ASVINA 24, 1667 3375 


(1C) If aijy doubt arises in interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India and its opinion shall 
be conclusive and binding on both the transferee and the transferor banks, and 
also on all the members, depositors and other creditors and employees of each of 
these banks and on any other person having any rights or liability in relation to 
any of these banks. 

(17) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of tins sebeme, 
the Central Government may issue to the transferor and the transferee banks or 
to either of them such directions not inconsistent with this scheme as may appear 
to the Central Government, after consulting the Reserve Bank of India, to be 
necessary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the difficulty. 

Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of 
the Josna Bank Ltd., as sanctioned by the Central Government under sub-section 
(7) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949). 


Name of the employee 


Designation in the 
transferor bank 


1, Shri S, Achutha Prabhu. 

'J. Shri M. Kunjukrishna Pillal. 

3. Shri C. D. Mannadiar. 

4. Shri B. Radhakrishna Rao. 

5. Shri P. G. Nair. 


Chief Executive Officer. 

Agent, Alleppey branch. 

Agent, Alathur branch. 

Officer-ln-charge, Tjruvellwamala 
branch. 

Officer-in -charge, Pazhayannur 
branch. 


[No. F. 17 (14)-BC/65.1 

S.O. 3176. — In pursuance of Sub-section (7) of Section 45 of the Banking 
Compardes Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby specifies the 
13th October, 1965 as the prescribed date in relation to the scheme for the amalga- 
mation of the Josna Bank Ltd., Cochin, with the Lord Krishna Bank Ltd., Cranga- 
More, which has been sanctioned by the Central Government under the provisions 
•f the said sub-section. 


[No. F.17 (14)-BC/ 65 (i) ] 


Nev) Delhi, the 11 th October 1965 

S.O. 3177. — In exercise of Ihe powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 
9 of the said Act shall not apply to the Vijaya Bank Ltd., Mangalore in respect 
of the immovable property (Plot of land bearing T.S. No. 832) held by it at 
Mangalore (South Kanaraj, till the 5th October 1966. 

[No. F, 15(22) -BC/G5.1 
P C. TEWARI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. aw, statement oi ine Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as <m the 24th September, 1965 

Banking Depaetment 


liabilities , assets' Rs. 


Capital Paid Up 

5*00,00,000 

Notes ....... 


34,22,82.000 

Reserve Fund . ■ 

80,00,00,000 

Rupee Coin . . . . . 


5,08,000 



Small Coin ■ . 

• 

2,69,000 



Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 



National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund 

ICO*COjCO.CCC 

(a) Interns] 

• 

• « 



(i>) External 

• 

* > * 8 



(c) Government Treasury Fills . 


. 149,84,33,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 

io*co*co,cco 

Balances Field Abroad* 


12,78.42,000 


Investments* . 


168,92,80,000 



Loans and Advances to : — 



National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 

15,00*00,000 

(i) Central Government 





(it) State Governments® 


52,51,81,000 

Deposits : — 


Loan sand Advances to : — 



(a) Government : 


(i) Scheduled Banks f 

• 

^ 94 ^ 45 >«x> 



(if) State Co-operative Banks} 


15^,03,71,000 



(Hi) Others . . - 


4,1 S,oo,ooo 


Loans, Advances and Investments tom National Agri- 
93,42,61,000 cultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


(t) Central Government . 


3376 the gazette or India : October k>, i 965/as vina 24, 1.887, [Part ii^ 


(t'i) State Governments . 

1 1,06,35,000 

(a) Loans and Advances to : — 


(b) Banks : 


(i) State Governments .... 

29,98,82,000 



(ii) State Co-operative Banks 

(in) Central Land Mortgage Banks . 

i3,42,co,coo 

(0 Scheduled Banks ...... 

104,-23,96,000 

(b) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank De- 


({() State Co-operative Banks 

. 2,81,22,000 

bentures. .... 

5>34„i3>ooo 

(tii) Other Banks .... 

. 2,22,000 

Loans t & Advances from National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation) Fund — ..... 



Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks 


( ) Others 

. 191,18,39,000 

Loans , Advances and Investments from National Indus- 
trial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund - 

- 

Bills Payable 

26,24,91,000 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 

(b) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by the 

Development Bank 

2,17,34,000 

Other Liabilities ..... 

34,11,64,000 

Other Assets ....... 

32,64,90,000 

Rupees . ... 

673,11,30,000 

Rupees ....... 

673,11,30,000 

♦Includes Cash and Short-term Securities. 


♦♦Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Ciedit (Lcrg lain 
Operations) Fund. » 

©Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to State 
Governments. 

■(•Includes Rs. NIL advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17(4) (c) of the R.B.I. Act. 

{Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. 

Date the 29 th day of September 1965 


CO 


8 

p 


M 

H 

H 

W 

O 

H-t 

a 

£ 


o 

ts 

H 

P 


z 

> 


co 

co 

-J 

"4 


An account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week faded the 24th day of September; 1965. 


Issue Dh>abtment 


LrAcntTiHs 

,Rs. 

Rs. Asssts 

Rs. Rs, 

Notes held in the Banking Department 

34,22,82x00 

Gold Coin and Bullion : — 


Nates in circulation 

2562,70,72,000 

(a) Held in India 
( i ) Held outside India 

• 133 , 75 , 66,000 

Total Note* issued . 


25,96,93,54,000 Foreign Securities 

Total . 

Rupee Coin . . . 

Government of India Rupee Securities 

Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
commercial paper* 

70,63,24x00 

204,38,904200 

105,10,35,000 

2287,44429,000 

Total Liabilities 


2596,93,54,000 Total Assets . 

2596 , 93 , 54 D 30 

Dated |the 29th day of September. 1965. 



P. C.Bhattacharyya, 


Governor, 


[No. F.3(2>BC-/65l 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA : OCTOBER 10, T90tr/ABVINA *20, R87 ifFxtr H- 



Weio Delhi, the 7th October 1965 

S.O. 3179, — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India as on the 1st October 1 365 

Banking Department 


Lusiutibs Rs. Assets R?. 

Capital paid up 3 ,00,00,003 Notes 29,60,43,000 

Rupee CoJn 7, 87,000 

Reserve Fund 80,00,00,000 Small Coin .... ... 2,84,000 


National Agricultural Credit (Long 
Term Operations) Fund 


National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund 


Bill* Purchased and Discounted:— 

100.00. 00.000 (a) Internal ..... 

(6) External ... 

(c) Government Treasury Bills . . . 163,26,33,000 

10,00^0,000 Balances held Abroad* 8,58,21,000 

Investments** 147,64^1,000 

1 5.00. 00.000 ,o**s and Advances to*— 

(0 Central Govennueot .... 



(n) State Governments® 


82,2T,36jOOQ 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Deposits: — 


Loans and Advances to : — 


(&) Government 1 — 


(i) Scheduled Banksf .... 

(ri) State Co-operative Banksf-f .... 

(lit) Others ....... 

16,04,05,000 

1 6046,5 3 , 000 

2,03,25,000 

(!) Central Government . 

1244446,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricultural 
Credit (Long Tens Operations) Fund — 


( a ) State Governments 

6,30,35,000 

(a) Loans and Advances to : — 




(i) State Governments ..... 

29 , 96 , 99 , 00 ° 



(it) State Co-operative Banks .... 

13 , 23 , 29,000 



(tit) Central Land Mortgage Banks 

, ► 

(fri Bank e : 


( b ) Investment in^Centrai Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

5,40,77,000 

(i) Scheduled Banks . . . 

110,23,90,000 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund — 


(t't) State Co-operative Banks 

2,95,21,000 

Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks 

. • 

( Hi ) Other Banks .... 

2j24:»000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 
Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund — 


(e) Others 

192 , 31 , 65,000 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank , 

2,17,34,000 

Bills Payable ..... 

Other Liabilities .... 

17 . 69 . 99.000 

30 . 98 . 93.000 

( 4 ) Investment In bonds/debentures issued by the De- 
velopment Bank . . ... 

Other Assets ....... 

34,02, 76,000 

Rupees 

694,76,43,000 

Rupees 

694,7643,000 


•Includes Cash and Short- teem Securities, 

••Excluding investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund. 

<3) Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, hut including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments. 

flncludes Rs. NIL advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under section 17 ( 4 X 0 ) of the R. B. I. Act. 

tf Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabili- 
sation) Fund. 

Dated the 6th day of October , 196 5- 


3380 THE GAZETTTE OFrINPIA : OCTOBER 16, 196S/ASVINA. 24, 1887 {Part II- 


An A Mount parnai' Co the Reserve Bank of India Act, 15*34. for the iveek ended the 1st day 'f October, 19 65 


Issue Department 


LIABILITIES 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Assets 

R*. 

Rs. 

Note* held in the Banking Depart- 
ment ..... 

Notes in circulation 

Total Notes issued 

29,60,43,000 
25S6j63, 75,000 

26i6,24,iS,ooo 

Gold Coin and Bullion : — 

(a) Held in India .... 

( b ) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities .... 

Total , 

Rupee Coin ..... 

Government of India Rupee Securities . 

Internal Bills of Exchange and other com- 
mercial paper 

133*75,66,000 

70,63,24,000 

204.38.90.000 

104.40.99.000 
2307 > 44 ^ 9 , 000 

Total Liabilities . 


2616, Z4,i8, 000 

Total Assets . 


2616,24,18,000 


P. C. B HAT! a cuaryta. 

Dated the 6th c’ay ol October, 1965- Governor, 


[No. F. 3(2)-BC/65.] 
R. X. SESHADRT, 
Director (Banking). 


Sac. 5 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDLV: OCTOBER J8, 1965 /ASVHJA 24 ,.' 18&7 g^8l 


3382 THE GAZETTE of I.VDff A : OCTOBER 16, 1 B 6 S/ASVINA t4, WB7 


(Jm II" 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 7th October 1985 

S O. 3180. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 46 of the State 
Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (63 of 1951) and in partial modification of the 
Notification No. F.6(25)-Corp/61 dated the 26th September, 1961, the Central 
Government hereby directs that the provisions of Section 38 of the said Act shall 
apply to the Madras Industrial Investment Corporation Limited, Madras, subject 
also to the exception that the statement, account and reports referred to in sub- 
section (3) of the said Section 38 shall be submitted to the State Government and 
the Reserve Bank within six months of the close of each financial year. 

[No. F.6(38)-Corp/65] 
A. K. NATARAJAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Company Affairs & Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 30 th September 1965 

S.O. 3181. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following instruments made 
in the exercise of the executive power of the Union may be executed by the Under 
secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, Department of 
Company Affairs and Insurance, namely: — 

“Contracts of reinsurance of policies of insurance of marine Bulls against war 
and allied risks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation of India.” 

(By order and hr the name of the President) 

[No. F. 52(4)TNS. 1/ 65. J 
A. RAJAGOPALAN, 

Officer on Special Duty & Ex-officio Jt. Secy. 


(Department of Company Affairs and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1965 

' S.O. 3183. — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Insurance 
Rules, 1939, which the Contra] Government proposes to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 114 of the Insurance Act, 1988 ( 4 of 1938) is published 
as required by stib-section (1) of the said section for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that the draft will he taken 
into consideration on or after the 30th November, 1965, 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the draft on or before the date specified above will be considered by 
Central Government. 


Draft Rules 

1 These rules may be called the Insurance (Second Amendment) Rules 1965. 





THE, GAZETTE Of INDIA : OCTOBER L 8 > I9fl8y<ASVlNA U, 1887 3383 


2. In the Insurance Rules, 1939 — 

(a) in clause (iii) of rule 2, for the words "the Union Territory of Goa, 

Daman and Diu” the words "the Union Territories of Goa, Daman 
and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli” shall be substituted; 

(b) in rule 35, for the brackets and words “(Department of Economic 

Affairs) ”, the brackets and words ‘‘(Department of Company Affairs 
and Insurance)” shall be substituted; 

(c) in the Schedule — 

(i) in Forms III, V-S, V-SA, V-C and V-D, the words "Department of 

Insurance” shall be omitted; 

(ii) in Forms V. V-A, V-P and V-PA, the words “DEPARTMENT OF 

INSURANCE,” shall be omitted. 

(iii) in Form V-SB for the brackets and words “(Department of Insur- 

ance)”, the words "OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER OF INSUR- 
ANCE” shall be substituted; and 

(iv) in Forms V-B, V-PB and V-E for the words “DEPARTMENT OF 

INSURANCE”, the words “OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER OF 
INSURANCE” shall be substituted. 

[No. 51 (14) -INS.I/65.] 
S. S. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


f, Department of Revenue) 

Customs 

New Delhi , the 19 th October 1965 

S.O. 3183. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 25, 
read with sub-section (3) of section 160, of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) 
and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 118 dated the 13th June, 1965, the Cen- 
tral Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to 
do, hereby exempts any ocean-going vessel manufactured in a warehouse m 
accordance with the provisions of section 65 of the said Act from the duty of 
customs leviable thereon when cleared from the warehouse: 

Provided that the duty of customs shall be levied on the vessel if it is broken 
up as if it were then imported to be broken up. 

[No. 163 /F. No. 3/15/65-Cus. VII.] 
G. P. DURAIRAJ, Dy., Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 
ORDERS 


Stamps 


New Delhi, the 16 th October 1965 

S.O. 3184.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
<1) of section 9 of the Indian Stap Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the bonds to the value of one crore and sixty 
lakhs of rupees issued by the Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation, are 
chargeable under the said Act, 

2. This order shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 27tli May, 1965. 

[No. 17/65-F. No. 1 /45/65-Cus- VII.] 


S.O. 3185, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the stamp duty with which the bonds of the value of fifty-five lakhs 
of rupees to be issued by the Uttar Pradesh Financial Corporation are chargeable 

under the said Act. [N , 0 . 18/65 _ F . No . f/eo/65-Cus.VH.] 


M. G. VAIDYA, Under Secy. 



3384 THE OAZETfTS OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/A-SV1NA 24', 1887 [Pam II- 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE, CALCUTTA ANI> ORISSA 

Centraj, Excise 
Calcutta, the 9th July 1905 

S.O. 3186. — In exercise oi the powers vested in him under rule 5 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944, the undersigned hereby authorises 'the Deputy Collectors cf 
Central Excise in the Colleetoratc of Central Excise, Calcutta and Orissa, Caiman, 
to exercise the powers of Collector under sub-iules i5) and (.0) 0 I Rule J91-A or' 
the Central Excise Rules, 1944. 


[No, 1/1903. J 

S. VENKATAS, AMAN, 
Collector. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 
(Department of Mines and Metals) 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1965 

S.O. 3187. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Minos and Fuel, No, S.O. 2761 dated the 20th September, 
19G3, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Develop- 
ment) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 1 £3 - 25 acres in the villages Samsikhra, Dhandabar, 

Dbobni, Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbhudih, and 

(ii) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 

carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405' 25 acres in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Punderkanali, Chirudi, 
Dhandabar, Dhobni Gopinathdih, Chakputaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih 
and Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas Shri Haradlian Dutia, the interested person, had under section 
13 of the said Act, preferred his claim to the competent authority for payment of 
compensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas the said interested person has accepted the compensation paid in 
pursuance of the decision of the coinpentent authority but has disputed ihe suffi- 
ciency thereof; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal Consisting of Shri R. P. 
Sinha, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining 
the amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 

[No. C2-20(7)/63,] 


New Delhi, the 30th September 1965 

S.O. 3188. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 26th September, 
1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Develop- 
ment) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193'25 acres in the villages Samsikhra, Dhandabar, 
Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbhudih, and 
(ii) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win. work and 
carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405' 25 acres in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra. Panderkanali, Chirudi, Dhan- 
dabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakputaha, .Rajasbera, Sabaldih and 
Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, I965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3385 


And whereas Shri Trigun Prasad Pandey and Shri Patalchandra Pandey, the 
interested persons, had under section 13 of the said Act, preferred their claims 
to the competent authority for payment of compensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas the said interested persons have accepted the compensation paid 
in pursuance of the discision of the competent authority but have disputed the 
sufficiency thereof; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition, 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition .and Development) Act, 1957, the- 
Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. Sinha, 
Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining the 
amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 


[No. C2-20(7)/63.T 


S.O. 3189. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th Sep- 
tember, 1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957, the Central Government has acquired; 

(i) lands measuring 193-25 acres in the villages Samsikhra, Dhandabar,, 
Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbhudih, and 

(ii) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405-25 acres in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkanali, Chirudi, Dhan- 
dabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakputaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih and 
Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas Shri Haldhar Mansif, the interested person, had under section 13 
of the said Act, preferred his claim to the competent authority for payment of 
compensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas the said interested person has accepted the compensation paid in 
pursuance of the decision of the competent authority but has disputed the suffi- 
ciency thereof; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition, 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957,. 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. 
Sinha, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining 
the amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 


fNo. C2-20(7)/63J 


S.O. 3190. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th September, 
1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing' Areas (Acquisition and Develop- 
ment) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193-25 acres in villages Samsikhra Dhandabar, Dhobni, 
Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbuhdih, and , 

(ii) the rights of mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405-25 acres in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkanali, Chirudi. Dhan- 
dabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakphutaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih and 
Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas S/Shri Mehandi Gope, Dhukhu Gope and Jadu Gope, sons of 
Ganari Gope, Smt. Bhumni Goalin wife of Mahli Gope, the interested persons- 



3386 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1985/ASVINA 24, 1887 


[Past II— 


"have under section 13 of the said Act, preferred their claims to the competent 
authority for payment of compensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas S/Shrimati Parbati Goalin w/o. Gokhul Gope, Chhutu Mahto 
son of HalcLhar Mahto, Mehandi Gope, Duku Gope, Jadu Gope sons of Ganauri 
Gope, Hori Gope and Gopal Gope sons of Hublal Gone, Rati Goalin and Payari 
Goalin, have also preferred claim to the competent authority for payment of com- 
pensation for the acquisition of the said lands and rights, and have disputed the 
claim of Shri Mehandi Gope, Dhuku Gope and Jadu Gope sons of Ganauri Gope, 
Smt. Bhumni Goalin w/o, Mahli Gope, to receive the compensation; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition 
■could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, the 
Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. Sinha, 
Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining the 
.amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 

[No. C2-20(7!/63.] 


S.O. 3191. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th September, 
1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Develop- 
ment) Act, 1957, the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193 25 acres in villages Samsikhra, Dhandabar, Dhobni, 
Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbuhdih, and 

(ii) the rights of mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals in iands measuring 1495-25 acres in villages, 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkanali, Chirudi, Dhan- 
dabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakphutaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih and 
Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas Shri Bipan Rawani son of Shri Sudhu Rawani, the interested 
person has, under section 13 of the said Act, preferred his claim to the competent 
authority for payment of compensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas Mautsi 23.1a, Bhudan KeryaJaya, Dhanbad has also preferred a 
■claim to the competent authority for payment of compensation for the acquisition 
of the said lands and rights, and has disputed the claim of Shri Bipan Rawani, to 
receive the compensation; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therfore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, the 
Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. Sinha, 
Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining the 
amount of compensation payable to the interested person, 

[No. C2-20(7)/G3.] 


S.O. 3193. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th Sep- 
tember, 1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193-25 arcres in the villages Samsikhra, Dhandabar, 
Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbhudih, and 

(ii) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals m lands measuring 1406-25 acres in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkanali, Chirudi, 
Dhandabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakputaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih 
and Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 




THE GAZETTE OF 'INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVIMA 24, 1867 ' 33 gj- 


S£C. 3 (ii)] 


And whereas Shri Rameshwar Tiwary, the interested person, had under section 
13 of the said Act, preferred his claim to the competent authority for payment 
of compensation lor the said acquisition; 

And whereas the said interested person has accepted the compensation paid in 
pursuance of the decision of the competent authority but has disputed the suffi- 
ciency thereof; 

An whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development! Act, 1957, 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. 
Si ah a, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determin- 
ing the amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 

[No, 02-20(7) /63.] 


S.O. 3193., — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th September, 
1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Develop- 
ment) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government hns acquired, 

li'i hinds measuring 193-25 acres in the villages Samsikhra, Dhandabur, 
Dhobni, Gupinathaih, Parasia and Garbhudih, and 

(ii) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry awav minerals in lands measuring 1405:25 acres in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Pandcrkanali, Chirudi, 
Dhandabar, Dhobni, Gopinatlidih, Chakputnha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih 
and Phutaba. 

in the District of Dhunbad; 

And whereas Shri Jageshwar Tiwary, Bisheswar Tiwary, Ramashwary Tiwary 
and Sarbeswar Tiwary, the interested person, had under section 13 of the said 
Act, preferred their claim to the competent authority for payment of com- 
pensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas the said interested persons have accepted the compensation 
paid in pursuance of the decision of the competent authority but have disputed 
the sufficiency thereof; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. 
Sinhn, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining, 
the amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 

TNo. C2-20(7)/t>3/J 


S.O. 3194. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th Sep- 
tember, 1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193- 25 acres in village Samsikhra Dhandabar, Dhobni, 
Gopinatlidih, Parasia and Garbuhdib, and 
(ii) the rights of mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405'25 acres in villages 
Parasia Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkanali, Chirudi, Dhan- 
dabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakphutaha, Rajasbcra, Sabaldih and 
Phutaha, 

In the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas S/Shri Mchandi Gopc, Dhukhu Gope and Jadu Gope sons of 
Ganduuri Gope, the interested persons have, under section 13 of the said Act, 
preferred their claims to the competent authority for payment, of compensation, 
for the said acquisition; 



3388 GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 16, 1966/AfiVINA S4. 1987 


[Part II— 


And whereas Shrimatl Bhumni Goalin wife of Mohali Gope, has also preferred 
a claim to the competent authority for payment of compensation for the acquisi- 
tion of the said lands and rights, and has disputed the claim of S/Shrl Menandi 
Gope, Dhukhu Gope and Jadu Gope, to receive the compensation; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisi- 
tion could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. 
Sinha, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determin- 
ing the amount of compensation payable to the interested person, 

[No. C2-20 (71/63.] 

S.O. 3195. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th Sep- 
tember, 1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193-25 acres in the villages Samsikhra, Dhandabar, 
Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbhudih, and 

(ii) the rights to mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 
carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405‘25 acre; in villages 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkanali, Cliirudi, 
Dhandabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakputaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih 
and Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas Shri Bankinchandra Pandey and Manikchandra Pandey, the 
interest persons, had under section 13 of the said Act, preferred their c 7 aims to 
the competent authority for payment of compensation for the said acquisition: 

And whereas the said interested persons have accepted the compensation 
paid in pursuance of the decision of the competent authority but have disputed 
the sufficiency thereof; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisi- 
tion could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R. P. 
Sinha, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determin- 
ing the amount of compensation payable to the interested persons. 

[No. C2,-20(7)/63.] 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3196. — Whereas in pursuance of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Mines and Fuel, No. S.O. 2761 dated the 20th Sep- 
tember, 1963, made under section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government has acquired, 

(i) lands measuring 193- 25 acres in villages Samsikhra Dhandabar, Dhobni, 

Gopinathdih, Parasia and Garbudih, and 

(ii) the rights of mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 

carry away minerals in lands measuring 1405-25 acres in villages, 
Parasia, Garbhudih, Manidi, Samsikhra, Panderkenali, Chirudi, Dhan- 
dabar, Dhobni, Gopinathdih, Chakphutaha, Rajasbera, Sabaldih and 
Phutaha, 

in the District of Dhanbad; 

And whereas S/Shri Subodh Kumar Pandey, Prablr Kumar Pandey and Nitai 
Chandra Pandey sons of Durga Das Pandey, the interested persons have under 
section 13 of the said Act, preferred their claims to the competent authority for 
payment of compensation for the said acquisition; 

And whereas Shri Raghunath Dutta son of Bhusan Dutta, has also preferred a 
claim to the competent authority for payment of compensation for the acquisition 



Sic, 5 (it)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 18, 1985/ASVI^A 24, 1887 338a , 


of the said lands and rights, and has disputed the claim of S/Shrl Subodh Kumar 
Pandey, Prabir Kumar Pandey and Nital Chandra Pandey, to receive the com- 
pensation; 

And whereas the amount of the compensation payable for the said acquisition 
could not be fixed by agreement; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of 
section 14 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957, 
the Central Government hereby constitutes a Tribunal consisting of Shri R, P. 
Sinha, Additional Judicial Commissioner, Ranchi, for the purpose of determining 
the amount of compensation payable to the interested person. 


[No, C.2-20(7)63.] 
RAM SAHAY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OP PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3197. — Tn the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum, and Chemicals S.O. No. 2333 dated the 14th July, 1965 
published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) dated the 
24th July, 1965 in village Nasirpur Pattam against Survey No. 93 read extent 
“8.03” acre for “0.08” acre. 


[No. 31/50/63-ONG-Vol. 4.] 
C. P. JACOB, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1965 

S.O. 3198. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Textiles Com- 
mittee Act. 1963 (41 of 1903), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Pramod 
Javeri, Managing Director, Nirlon Synthetic Fibres and Chemicals Ltd,, Bombay, 
in place of Shri A. R. Ramanathan, Chairman, M/ s. Travancore Rayons Lid., 
Madras, resigned, and directs that the following further amendment shall be made 
to the Notification of the Government of India No. S.O. 2914, dated the 22nd August, 
1964 published to the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part II, Section 3, Sub-sec- 
tion (ii), dated the 22nd August, 1964, namely: — 

In the said Notification, for entry 22, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“22. Shri Pramod Javeri, Managing Director, Nirlon Synthetic Fibres and 
Chemicals Ltd., Bombay.” 

[No. 2 6 (9)-TEX (A) / 65.] 
DAULAT RAM, Under Secy, 


Tea Control 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

8.0. 3199. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Tea Act, 1953 
(29 of 1953), read with rules 4 and 5 of the Tea Rules, 1954, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri P. K. Kanoria as a member of the Tea Board until the 
31st March, 1966, in the vaneancy caused by the resignation of Shri B, P. Bajoria 
and makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 1151 dated 
the 20th April, 1963 namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry "13 Shri B. P. Bajoria, Messrs, McLeod 4 
Co., Ltd,, Calcutta-1," the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“13. Shri P. K, Kanoria, M/s, Borahi Tea Co., Ltd., 11, Braboume RoacL 
Calcutta-1." 

[No. 7(1) Plant (A)/62.] 
I. R. KAKAR, Under Secy. 



[Tart IT- 


3390 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1 ‘ 165 /AS VINA 24, 1887 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1985 

S.O. 3200.— It is hereby notified that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce, propose to cancel licence No. P./SS/1521495/C/XX/18/ 
C/D/17-18 dated 24th January, 1964, valued at Rs, 18,000 only for the import of 
Radio and Transister parts from General Currency Area except Union of South 
Africa and South West Africa granted by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, Central Licensing Area, New Delhi to M/s. Eclat Radio Appliances, 
Amritsar, unless sufficient cause against this is furnished to the Chief Contiolier 
of Imports and Exports, New Delhi within ten days of the date of issue of this 
notice by the said M/s. Eclat Radio Appliances, Amritsar or any Bank or any 
other party, who may bo interested in it. 


2, Enquiries made have revealed that the licence in question was obtained 
against bogus Essentiality Certificate purported to have been issued from the 
Director of Industries. 


3. In view of what is stated above, M/s. Eclat Radio Appliances, Amritsar or 
any Bank or any other party, who may be interested in the said licence No. P/SS/ 
1521495/C /XX/18/C/D/17-18 dated 24-th January, 1964 are hereby directed not 
to enter into any commitments against the said licence and return the same 
immediately to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. 

M/s. Eclat Radio Appliances, Vcrka Road, Amritsar. 

[No. CCI/I(C)/18/G5/2684J 
D. P. KARNIK, 

Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 
(Department of Industry) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 2 9th September 1965 

S.O. 3201. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Industry and Supply S.O. Wo. 2664 dated the 17th August, 1905, published in sub- 
section (11). of Part II of Section 3 of the Gazette of India dated the 28th August, 
1965, for the date mentioned in Para 1 (8th line), viz., 16th August 1905, substitute 
‘‘8th July 1967”. 


[No. ll(2)Llc. Pol./65.] 
R. C. SETHI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Industry ) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1965. 

S.O. 3202. — In pursuance of sub -regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the 
Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended 
in 1961, 1962 and 1964, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the 
Indian Standard (s), particulars of which is/are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed, has/have been established during the period 16th September to 30th 
September 1905. 



Sec. S(ii)] 


THK GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3391 


The Schedule, 


SJ. No. and Title of the Indian No. and Title of the Indian 

No. Standard Established Standard or Standards, if Brief Particulars 

any, superseded by ihe new 
Indian Standard 


(1) (2) 


(3) 


(4) 


IS: 1554 CPart I) — 1964 
Specification for PVC. 
insulated (heavy di ltv) 
electric cables. Part 
I for working voltages 
up to and including 1100 
, volts (revised). 


IS: i5j4(Part-I) — 1961 
Specification for PVC in- 
sulated (heavy duly) elec- 
tric cables Part I for work- 
ing voltages up to and in- 
cluding 1 100 volts. 


This standard covers lie ie- 
quircmenis for both artneured 
and unarmoured sigle core, 
twin core, three core and mul- 
ticorc PVC insulated and 
sheathed cables with an 
oulcr sheath for electricity 
supply and control purposes. 


•NoTFt With a view to facilitate gradual change over by manuiacturcrS, IS: 1554 (Part-I), — 1961 
Specification for PVC insulated (heavy duty) electric cables, Part 1 fer wcil irg volumes 
up to and incuding 1 100 volts^ shall also coniinue to remain in force concurrently with 
IS: TS54 (Parr I)— 1964 Specification for PVC insulated (heavy duly) electric cables, 
Part I "for working voltages up to and including t ioo volts (revised), for a period of six 
months. 


Copies of this Indian Standard are available for sale, with the Indian Standards 
Institution, Manak Bhavan, 9 Bahadur Shah Zufar Marg, New Delhi— 1 and also 
its branch offices at (i) Bombay Mutual Terrace. First Floor, 534 Sardar Vallabh- 
bbai Patel Road, Bombav-7. (iij Third and Fourth Floors, 5 Chowringh.ee Approach, 
Calcuttu-13, (iii) Second Floor, Sathyamurthy Bhavan, 54 General Patters Road, 
Madras-2 and (iv) 14/69 Civil Lines, Kanpur. 

[No. MD/13: 2.] 

• D. DAS GUPTA, Dy. Director 


(Department of Industry) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1965 

S.O. 3203. — The list of articles in licence No. CM/L-1113 held by M/s. Electri- 
cal Machine Industries Pvt, Ltd., Calcutta, the details of which are given in the 
notification published under S.O. 2667 in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
I(ii) dated 28 August, 1965, has been revised as under with effect from 1 October 
1965: 

Arc Welding Transformers, Single Operator Type, 420 Volts Up to 350 
Amperes, Max. Continuous Hand Welding Current, 

[No. MD/12:10OO-A,] 
D. V. KARMARKAR, Jt. Director (Marks). 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 30 th September 1965 

S.O. 3204. — In pursuance of clause (a) of rule 3 of the Prevention of Food Adul- 
teration Rules, 1955, the Central Government hereby authorises the Port Health 
Officer, Bombay to send samples of food to the Central Food Laboratory, Calcutta, 
for analysis and submission of the certificate of analysis, 

[No, F. 1 4-97/65 /PH (L&E.)} 

BASHERSHAR NATH, Under Secy. 


3392 THE GAZEifr'E OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/A8VINA 24. 1887 


[Part II- 


Ne w Delhi, the 4th October 1965 

S.O. 3205. — Whereas Dr. Rudreswar Goswami, Ph. D., Vice-Principal- 

cum-Deputy Superintendent and Professor of Pharmacology, Assam Medical Col- 
lege, Dibrugarh, has been elected with effect from the 19th May, 1965, from the 
State of Assam, as a member of the Medical Council of India under clause (c) 
of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 
1956); 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3- 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further/ 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Health No. F. 13/59-MI, dated the 9th January, 1960, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Elected under clause (c) of 
sub-section ( 1 ) of section 3”, for the entry against serial No. 5, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Dr. Rudreswar Goswami, M.B.B.S., Ph.D., Vice-Principal-cwn-Deputy 
Superintendent and Professor of Pharmacology, Assam Medical Col- 
lege, Dibrugarh”, 

[No. F. 4-28/64-MPT.J 
B. B. L. BHARADWAJ, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O- 3206— In pursuance of Sub-Rule (iv) of Rule 111 of the Defence of India 
Rules, 1962, the Central Government hereby makes the following Order in regard 
to compensation for acquisition or requisition of motor vehicles;. — 

(i) In respect of the vehicles requisitioned after the 31st August, 1965, 20 

per cent increase shall be paid on the compensation payable under part 
I of the Order contained in this Ministry’s Notification No. l-TL(56)/62, 
dated the 22nd November 1962. 

(ii) In tho case of total loss of the requisitioned vehicles as a result of 

enemy action, a further increase over and above the Increased com- 
pensation mentioned at (i) above of — 

(1) 15 per cent In respect of vehicles which are three years or less than 
three years old and 

(Ii) 20 per cent In the case of vehicles which are over three years old. 

(iii) In the case of total loss of requisitioned owner driven vehicles as a 

result of enemy action an additional increase of 15 per cent over the 
Increased compensation prescribed in (i) and (U) above. 

(iv) The total compensation payable shall not in any case exceed the market 

value of a new vehicle of the same make and type as the requisition- 
ed vehicle prevailing on the date of the loss or the damage as the 
case may be. 

[No. 37-TAG (80) /65.J 
A. S. BHATNAGAR, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 8th October 1865 

S.O. 3207. — In pursuance of para (a) of Section III of Rule 434 of Indian Tele- 
graph Rules, 1951, as introduced by S.O. No. 627 dated 8 th March, 1960, the Direc- 
tor-General Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 1st November, 1965, as the 
date on which the Measured Rate System will be introduced in Shimoga Tele- 
phone Exchange. _ 

v [No. 31/29/65-PHB.] 

S. K SEN, 

Assistant Director General (PHB.). 



SBC. 3 (it)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASV1NA *1. 


hwtt ftrwro 

jfrr) 

Rf 8 WITTC 19 65 

W>o 3208. — ?TT^3T 627, fc^IF 8 Rpf, i960 SRT BUT 

f«pT irtT i 95 i £ cttt f^r^nff £ %tr- 434 £ III £ for (it) £ spjrr 

yff-htt Tm rffo Trip 1 1965 r if srmfrT tt sr jrr-fo urr 

c\ 

w *pt ffospr spT^ $ \ 


|foo 31/29/65 fro rr^o ^to]j 
R1ITRT forfdXR'P (TVoiT To ifto) 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 


New Delhi , the 30th September 1965 

S.O, 3209, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby makes the following amendment to the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply No. S.O. 
307 dated the 28th January, 1959, namely: — 

In the table below the said notification, for the existing entry in column 1 
against Serial No. 25, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Estate Officer, North East Frontier Railway”. 


[No. 32/ 13/65-Acc. II.] 
B, M. LAX,, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3210. — In pursuance of clause (c) of section 2 of the Terminal Tax on 
Railway Passengers Act, 1956 (69 of 1956). the Central Government hereby de- 
clares Remeshwaram to be a notified place for the purposes 0 f the said Act, 

2. This notification shall come into force on 1st January, 1960. 

[No, F (X) I-64/TX-19/12-I.] 


S O. 321.1.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the Terminal Tax on Railway Passengers Act, 1956 (69 of 1956), the Central 
Government hereby. — 

(a) fixes the rates as mentioned in column (2) of the scheduV annexed 
hereto at which terminal tax shall be levied in respect of every 



3394 TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 16, ) 90S /AS VINA 24. 1887 [Part II - 


railway ticket on all passengers carried by railway Xrorn or to the 
notified place specified In oolum-n (1) of the said Schedule; 

(b) directs that the aforesaid terminal tax shall be leviable with effect from 
1st January, 1966. 

The Schedule 
RATES 


Name of notified place 

(I) (2) 


Audit 


Child between 3-12 yrs. of age 


For short distance For long distance For short distance For long distance 
passengers passengers passengers passengers 

49-242 Kras. over 242 Kms. 49-242 Kms. over 242 K»«. 


Rameshwaram 

paise 

paise 

paise 

paise 

A/c or 1 Class 

30 

50 

15 


II Class 

TO 

20 

5 

IO 

III Class 

5 

10 

3 

5 


Etpl inti? 1 : Trr terminal tax on a return ticket shall be double the rates fixed herein. 

[No. F(X) I-64/TX- 19- 12-11. J 

S.O. 3212, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Terminal 
Tax on Rahway Passengers Act, 1956 (69 of 1956), the Central Government here- 
by directs that no terminal tax shall be levied on passengers travelling by Rail- 
way from or to Rameshwaram to or from any railway station situated within a 
radius of 48 kilometres from Rameshwaram. 

2. This notification shall come into force on 1st January, 1965. 

[No. F. (X) I-04/TX-19 /12-IIX.] 
P. C. MATHEW, Soey. 


(w aftf ) 

Ttfr fawfr, 1 spFfiArc 1965 

wto32l3. — 1956 % TT TRft FflRTafpr nrftffRTR- ( 1 956 *U 6 9 *11) 
3TTT 2 % (t) % if, RT5FR C[fP[3TTT NlRHT TPUfl | {% 3W 

nfsrRFPT %■ TTtTTPf R45TN Safari PTFT ^FTT I 
2. Ti? Uftr^TT 1 1 966 % NTT gRfl I 

[tfo m|i(TT W ) I_64 /tT1T4R-1 9/12-1] 

C[fTo W>o 3214. — 1 956 % TN TTcfl fffW ( 1 956 VT 69 'ft) 

■4ff SHTT 3 ^ FT-'TPT ( 1 ) % *1, %*3RI FRTTT ^3331 

(V) TTT'T RTgyfr T TFPT (2) if ST ffiRT TTcfr | f^T 

krTTH Tfef £ TJvPT ( 1 ) If faiT ’Hi P«IFT ?T HT 



Sec. THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1 965/AS VINA 24, 1$B7 3395 


TT fe TFT fe tpf fef TTfTTf %, Rffe fen? rflRT qr fe(T 

TTTRT 1 

(&) fen nfe & fn 'JTfe iffRT TF I nrfe, 1 966 R fcITT 1 

( 1 ) 

( 

2 ) 


fergfer «rm nr am 


3 # 1 2 TT dn *PT T^TT 


49-242 ; 

242 pFo jffo 49-242 

242 


Pfo Rfo 

If TftJT fn° fe 

fqro iff. 


a-tfe 

Rfef Tn ^rf 

1 ) afe 



Tl% Trfi %ft afe 



fer TTRt 

TTTf 

an ainf 

twttr 

fa; 

A «- J* «■ 

TR '4R 

e. 

TR 

TITf^TN TT TifTT TTf 

30 

50 15 

25 

l/FT TTf 

1 0 

2 0 5 

1 0 

fern anf 

5 

1 0 3 

5 


mfeTTTr : qr tThtt nr zrz t fwm ttt tt par ^tnr i 


[Ro trqj (tnrcr) I— 6 4 /^V RW- 1 9/1 2-JI] 

«*fTo Wto 3215. — 1 956 %fe-Tpft Rfe tffsfeR ( 1 956 >ET 69 TT) t SRTT 
iriwrtr tt sfer afe fern ?toftt ttttttt fen fe f fr rr&^-rq; lr tnfe 
TFfefe lr 48 fnfeffe $■ samnsf $ fen fnaf *fr fer ?ena § fe-srr% 
tt% fe qrfVqf a nrf fftm Hfff fen fear i 

2 . Tf STfafTdT 1 Tfet, 1966 If nr^ feff 1 

[nor^TTjm) J_ 64 /#roC[qn-l 9/'III] 

fro nfo fezr, 

IN' 

nf%n, fen tp? 1 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi , the 30 th September, 1965. 

8.0. 3216. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv sub-section (I) of Section I 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 


3396 THE gazette of indW : October 16, i%5/asvina h, lm 


[Taut II— 


19S4), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Sapuran Singh, I.A.S., Secre- 
tary, Rehabilitation Department, Punjab Government so long as he holds that 
post, to be a Settlement Commissioner in the State of Punjab, for the purpose of 
performing, in addition to his own duties as Secretary, Rehabilitation Department, 
Punjab Government the functions assigned to a Settlement Commissioner by or 
under the said Act, in respect of agricultural lands and shops in any rural area 
including houses, cattle sheds and vacant sites, if any, forming part of the Com- 
pensation Pool. 

[No. F. 3 (10)/L & R/65.J 

M. J. SRIVASTAVA, Under Secy. 

Settlement Commissioner & Ex-Officio. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3217. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl Harish Chander, Assistant Settle- 

Settlement Commissioner for the purpose 
such officer by or under the said Act with 

[No. 5(2) /63-ARG.J 

New Delhi , the 6th October 1965 


ment Commissioner, Delhi as Additiona 
of performing the functions assigned to 
immediate effect. 


S.O. 3218. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-scction (1) of Section 6 
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Sapuran Singh, Secretary to the Government of 
Punjab, Rehabilitation Department, as Custodian for the State of Punjab for the 
purpose of duties imposed on Custodian by or under the said Act with effect from 
the date he took over charge of his post. 

[No. 7(20)AGZ/65.J 


New Delhi, the 7th October 1965 

S.O- 3219. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of Section 0 
of the Administration og Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central 
Government hereby appoints, for the Union Territory of Delhi, Shri J. C. Gulati, 
Settlement Officer in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, New 
Delhi as Deputy Cutodlan for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on 
Custodian by or under the said Act with effect from 16th September, 1965, 

[No, 6(6)62/ARG.] 
KANWAR BAHADUR, 
Settlement Commissioner (A) and 
Ex-Officio Dy. Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 4th October 1965 

S O. 3229. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-Section (2) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 
1954) I delegate to Shri Harish Chander, Additional Settlement Commissioner, the 
powers vested in me under Section 5 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supple- 
mentary Act, 1954 to be exercised by him in relation to revision of cases decided 
under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950. 

[No. 5 (2) /63-ARG.J 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1965 

S O. 3221. — In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Settlement Com- 
missioner bv sub-Seetion (2) of Section 24 of the Displaced Persons (Compen- 
aution and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, he hereby delegates with immediate effect 
to Shri Saniiran Singh T.A.S . Settlement Commissioner, Punjab, his powers under 
Section 30(2) of the said Act in so far as such orders relate to any sums due 
under the said Act in respect of the property (including agricultural land) m the 
State of Punjab in a rural area as defined in clause (f) of rule 2 of the Displaced 
Persons (Compensation and Rehabi itation) Rules, 1955, which forms part of the 
Comnensa+ion Pool. Shri Saniman Singh will exercise this power only so long aa 
he holds the post of Secretary, Rehabilitation Department, Punjab Government. 

[No. 3(10) /L & R/65..1 



Sac. ,9 (11)] THE GAZETTE of INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24 , 1887 335,-7 


S.O. 3222. — In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Settlement Com- 
missioner by Sub-section (2) of Section 24 of the Displaced Persons (Compensa- 
tion and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, he hereby delegates, with immediate effect to 
Shrl Sapuran Singh, I.A.S., Settlement Commissioner, Punjab, his powers under 
Sections 23, 24 and 28 of the said Act for the purposes of passing necessary orders 
under these Sections in so far as they relate to the custody, management and dis- 
posal of property (including agricultural land) In the state of Punjab in a rural area 
as defind in clause (f) of rule 2 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and 
Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, which forms part of Compensation Pool. Shri Sapu- 
ran Singh will exercise this power as long as he holds the post of Secretary, Re- 
habilitation Department, Punjab Government. 

[No. 3(10)/L & R-B3.] 

G. D. KSHETRAPAD, 

Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3223.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9' of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shrl Nitin Sethy after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors as a 
member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect. 

[No. 11/2/62-FC.] 


New Delhi , the 8 th. October, 196b 

S.O. 3224. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 9 and 
sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central 
Government hereby reappoints Shri T, Shiva Kumar Raddi as a member of ihe 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect from 25t.h August, 1985. 

[No. F. 11/3/65-FC.] 

S.O. 3225. — In exercise of the .powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 9 and 
sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central 
Government hereby reappoints Shri V. V. L. Prabhakar as a member of the Advi- 
sory Panel of the said board at Madras with effect from 25th August, 1985. 

[No. F. 11/3/05-FG] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1965 

S.O. 322G. — In pursuance of the Directions issued under the provisions of the 
enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government 
after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay here- 
by approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto 
in all its language versions to be of the description'specifled against it In column 6 
of the said Second Schedule. 


The Fikst Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section (1) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952)— 

(2) Sub-Section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Re- 

gulation) Act, 1953 (Bombay Act XI of 1953). 

(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

(Regulation) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953). 



3398 THE gazette of india; October ig, 1965/asvina 24 , 1887 


[Pakt II— 


The Second Schedule 


SI. Tide of the 
No. film. 

Length 
35 mm. 

Name of the 
applicant. 

Name of the 
Producer. 

Whether a scientific film or 
a film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing with 
news and current events or 
documentary film. 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

. 1 . Maharashtra 
News No. 160 . 
(Hindi anl 
Marathi). 

27 6 M 

Director of Publicity 

Govt, of Maha- 
rashtra Bombay. 

Film dealing with news and 
current events. (For release 
in Mahamhtra Circuit only). 


[No. F. 24/1/65-FP.App. 1O20.T 
G. S. GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi, the 25 th September 1965 

S.O. 3227,— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1943 (34 of 1948), and having 1 regard to tile location of the 
factory in an implemented area, the Central Government hereby exempts the 
Laundry Plant at the Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur from the payment 
of employers’ special contribution leviable under chapter VA of the said Act for 
the period up to and including the 4th August, 1966. 

LNo. F. 0/63/fi5-III.] 

S.O. 3228. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1.948) and in supersession of the previous 
orders on the subject contained In the letter of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Labour No. HI(73)/56 dated the 1st August, 1956 and having 
regard to the location of factory in an implemented area, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby exempts the factories belonging to the B.E.S.T. under the Municipal 
Corporation of Greater Bombay which are specified below, from the payment of 
the employers’ special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act. 

1. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking's Distribution Workshops, Mazgaon, Bomba;/-. 

2. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking's Santacruz Bus Garage, Santacruz, Bombay. 

3. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking's Bus Garage, Kurla, Bombay. 

4. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking’s Victoria Gardens Depot, Byculia, Bombay- 8 . 

5. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking's Transport Engineering Workshop of the 

Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, Kings way, Dadar, 

Bombay-14, 

6 . The B.E.S.T. Undertaking’s Grant Road, Station, Khetwadi 10th Lane, 

off Grant Road. 

7. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking's Sales Department Best House, Fort, Bombay-1. 

8 . The B.E.S.T. Undertaking’s Colaba Tram Depot, Best House, Fort, 

Bombay-1. 

9. The B.E.S.T, Undertaking’s Kussara Receiving Station, Kussara Basin, 

Mazagon, Bombay, 

10. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking’s Esplanade Receiving Station, Lobar Chawl, 

Princess Street, Bombay. 

11. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking's Colaba Bus Garage, Best House, Fort, 

Bombay- 1, 

12. The B.E.S.T. Undertaking’s Taradeo Tram Depot, Taradeo, Bombay-7. 

13. The B.E.S.T, Undertaking’s Meter Testing Department, Electric House, 

Fort, Bombay. 

14. The B.E.S.T, Undertaking’s Apollo Receiving Station. Custom House 

Road, Fort, Bombay. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTQBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3399 


15. The B.E.S.T, Undertaking's Central Bus Garage, Stall, Bellasis Road, 

Bombay. i - 

16, The Municipal Printing Press, Casnac Bridge, Bombay. 

[No. F. 6/57/65-HL] 

S.O. .1229. — In exercise <;£ the poweesr conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and having regard to the location of the 
factories mentioned in the Schedule below In sparse areas in the State of Mysore, 
exempts them from the payment of the employers’ special contribution leviable 
under chapter VA of the said Act until the enforcement of the provisions of 
Chapter V of that Act in those areas. 


Schedule 


SI. Name of District Name of the area Name of the factory 

No. 


1 Bangali tre 

2 Belgaum 

3 Chickmaglur . 

4 Dharwar 

5 Kolar . 

6 Rate hur 


7 Shim oga 

8 South Kanara . 


Anekal 

Hindalga 

Basavanahulli 


Mysore State Road Transport 
Corporation 
Anand Works. 

SrceGancsh Saw Mills. 


Gadng 

Kolar 

Munirabad 


Hulikal 


Vijay Textiles, 

Mysore Stale Road Transport 
Depot. 

( 1 j Tungabhadra Pulp and Board 
Mills Ltd. 

( 2 ) Chamundi Chemicals and 
Fertilizers I ,td. 

(3) Workshop 1 un gabhadra pro- 
ject, Major Repair Sub-Di- 
vision. 

A mbit a Tile Works. 


Jodhmarga . . Mysore Commercial Union Ltd. 

Gulvady . . M/r. Udaya Industries, Gulvady. 


[No. F, 6(29) / G5-HI.] 

S.O. 3230. — Tn exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and having regard to the location of the 
factories mentioned in the Schedule below in sparse areas in the State of Punjab, 
the Central Government exempts them from the payment of the employers’ special 
contribution leviable under chapter VA of the said Act until the enforcement of 
the provisions of Chapter V of that Act in those areas. 

Schedule 


s 1- 

No. 


Name of District 


Name of the area Name of the factory 


1 Ambala 

2 Amritsar 


3 Bhatinda 

4 Ferozcpur 


Dadupur 
Kotmit Singh 
Taran Taran 

Mom Mandi 
Moga 


M/s. Kamal Electric Wave (P) 
Ltd. 

x. M/s. Devi Dass & Sons, 

2. M/s. Darbar Woollen Mills. 

1. M/s. Sunder Singh Jit Singh. 

2 . M/s. Free India Engineering 
Works. 

M/s.NuthuRamRtvi Kaian. 

1. M/s. Jai Bharat Metal Indus- 
tries. 

2 . M/s, Food Specialists, 



34 OQ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/AS VINA 24, 1887 [Part II- 


si 

No, 

Name of District 

Nameoftheare* 

Name of the factory 



Gidardaha 

M/s. Khetu Ram Bishamber Das 
Iron Box Factory. 

5 

Gurdaspur 

. Gurdaspur 

Pathankot 

Dina Nagar 

M/s. Kandu Mai Rikhi Ram Rice 
& Dal Mills. 

M/s. Himalaya Timber Industries 
M/s. Gupta Rubber Mills. 

6 

Hissar .... 

. Sirsa 

M/s. Bhakra Cotton & Genl. Mills 
(P) Ltd. 

7 

Hoshiarpur - . 

. Talwara. 

M/s. Tractor & Shoel Repair 
Workshop. 

8 

Jullundur 

. Chak Bilgan. 

M/s. PremAgrico Industries. 

9 

Kapoorthala . , 

. Chak Hakiman 

1. M/s. Kanwal Spring Co. 

2 . M/s, German Industries. 

10 

Karnal .... 

. Chiaro 

M/s. Karnal Card Board Indus- 
tries. 

II 

Patiala .... 

. Amloh 

1. M/s. Shanker Iron & Steel 
Rolling Mills. 

2 . Dhinga Iron & Steel Industries 

12 

Rohtak .... 

. Akbar Pur. 

Roor Bar Khalsa 

Kasoie . 

M/s. Hindustan Dwidt Tools Ltd. 
M/s. Ashok Potteries, 20 th mile, 
G.T. Road. 

M/s. Mercury Rubber Mills. 

13 

Sangroor 

- Sangroor 

Barnala 

I. M/s. Bharat Electric Works. 

2 . M/s. S.A.S. Cotton Factory. 

M/s. Gopal Steel Industries. 


[No. F. 6/22/ 05-HI.] 

S.O. 3231, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government having regard to 
the location of the factory in an implemented area, exempts the Cottage Industries 
and Textile Training Institute, Nagpur, from the payment of employers' special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for the period upto and 
inclusive of the 1st June 1966. 

[No. F. 6(53) / 65-HI,] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 8th October 1965 

S.O. 3232, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the Khadl and Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 ( 61 of 1956) and in super- 
session of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry No. S.R.O, 1310, dated the 23rd April, 1957, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby adds to the Schedule to the said Act the following village indus- 
tries, namely: — 

(i) Manufacture of shellac; 

(ii) Collection of forest plants and fruits for medicinal purposes; 

(iii) Fruit processing and fruit preservation; 

(iv) Bamboo and cane work; 

(v) Blacksmithy; 

(vi) Carpentry; and 

(vii) Fibre other than coir. 


[No. 5/47/.63/KVKP),] 
P. SITAKAMAN, Dy. Secy. 




Sza 3 (0)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 196S/ASVINA 24, 1887 34 OI 

■=“ ~~ -■ — 1 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 29th September 1965 

S.O. 3233. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in respect of an industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the Oriental Fire and General Insu- 
rance Company Limited and their workmen which was received by the Central 
Government on the 25th September, 1965, 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 12 of 1965 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Oriental Fire and General Insurance Co., Ltd. 

AND 

Their workmen 

Present : 

Shri L. P. Dave. — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of employers. — Shri T. K. Jagadeesh and Shri M. M. Shall. 
Advocates. 

On behalf of workmen. — Shri S. N. Banerjee. Advocate. 

State; West Bengal. Industry: Insurance. 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their order 
No. 70(13)/64-LRlV dated 30th January, 1965. have referred the industrial dis- 
pute existing between the employers in relation to the Oriental Fire and General 
Insurance Company Limited and their workmen regarding the question whether 
the management was justified in retrenching Shri Benoy Shankar Roy with effect 
from 31st July 1964 and if not, to what relief he is entitled for adjudication to 
this Tribunal. 

2. In response to notices issued by this Tribunal, the workmen represented by 
the Oriental Fire and General Insurance Employees’ Union (to which I shall 
hereafter refer to as the Union), and the Oriental Fire and General Insurance Co., 
Limited (which I shall hereafter refer to as Company) filed their respective 
written statements. 

3. The present dispute relates to a clerk named Shri Benoy Shankar Roy, who 
was admittedly appointed as a clerk in the Asansol office of the Company from 
21st January, 1963, and was retrenched with effect from 31st July, 1964. The 
company Is doing work of general insurance and has several offices in India. It 
is an admitted fact that for the purpose of administration the Company has divid- 
ed its offices into regions one of which is the Eastern Region with its office at 
Calcutta. Asansol office is under this region, It is also an admitted fact that 
after the Chinese Aggression in 1962 the Government of India brought into force 
the Emergency Risks Insurance Schemes briefly referred to hereafter as E.R.I., and 
appointed the Company as its agent for implementing the said schemes. As the 
regular staff of the company was not sufficient for this additional work, the com- 
pany recruited several persons in different offices for this E.K’.I. work. It appears 
that the salaries of the staff engaged for E.R.I. work was to be borne by the 
Government. In ,1964 the Government, suspended the collection of premia in 
respect of E.R.I. Schemes with the result that the Company’s work in connection 
with the Scheme was considerably reduced. Ultimately, the company decided to 
retrench all persons who had been recruited for this work and first Issued a notice 
under rule 77 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules and put It on a Notice 
Board. Thereafter several of these people were retrenched. 

4. There are several unions of the workmen working in the company at diffe- 
rent places. Different unions are affiliated to a Federation called All India 
Federation of Oriental Fire and General Insurance Employees’ Association which 
works on all India basis. It appears that when the company decided to retrench 
staff taken up for E.R.I. work, the unions and their Federation raised an Industrial 



|i'AKT 11 — 


34'02 THE GAZE Z1E Of INDIA : OCTOBER 1 6, 190'5/AS VEX A 2i, IBB/ 


dispute about it which went to conciliation. Ultimately an agreement was arriv- 
ed to between he Company and the Federation on 3rd September, 1964, on a all 
India basis settling the dispute regarding retrenchment of the E.R.I. department 
Staff In all the regions of the company. 

5. The above facts are not in dispute.. The union’s case Is that the workmen 
concerned in this dispute, namely Shrl Roy, was recruited in the General Depart- 
ment of the company and not in the E.R.I. department. It was therefore con- 
tended that he could not be retrenched because of the fad in E.R.I. work. It 
was also contended that as he was not a member of the E.R.I. staff, the above 
agreement did not affect him. Hence it was urged that his retrenchment was 
unjustified, illegal, mala fide and an instance of unfair labour practice. 

6. On the other hand, the company’s contention is that Shri Roy was re- 
cruited to the E.R.I, department; that he was. therefore, retrenched on the reduc- 
tion of E.R.I, work and that retrenchment was proper and justified. It was. 
further contended that his case had been taken up by the union along with the 
case of other retrenched persons of the E.R.I. department and the above agree- 
ment would cover his case and that it was actually acted upon in his case also. 
The company, therefore, urges that Shri Roy is not entitled to any relief. 

7. The first question that would ‘arise for consideration is whether Shri Roy was 
appointed as a member of the general stall of the company or as a member of its 
E.R.I. department. Admittedly no appointment letter was issued to him. At one 
stage it was contended that letters were issued to persons appointed to the E.R.I. 
department and as no such letter was issued to Shri Roy, it would mean that he 
was appointed to general department. This contention cannot be accepted. 
Ordinarily a letter of appointment would be Issued to a person when he Is 
appointed for the general normal work of the company. E.R.I. was a special 
work which the Company was called upon to do at short notice from January, 

I y63, ana lor that purpose it started recruiting persons immediately thereafter. 
In the beginning, therefore, the position may not have been clear and hence no 
letters ol appointment were given to persons recruited to the E.R.I. department. 
The letter of the Union written to the Conciliation Officer. Calcutta, on 18th June 
19tf4, makes tills clear. It mentions inter alia that the E.R.I. scheme came into force 
from 1st January, 1903; that the company started recruiting new hands on and 
from Hist January, 1903, us the existing hands were not sufficient to cope with 
the work that the employees were not at first given appointment letters; that 
it was only after 1st June, 1963, that they were given appointment letters; that 
these appointment letters were withdrawn and replaced by fresh appointment 
letters and that again another appointment letter was given modifying certain 
terms and conditions. These statements made by the Union would go "to show 
that the company had not decided the position of the E.R.I. staff in the begin- 
ing because the work came to it almost suddenly and had to be attended to 
immediately. The scheme came into force from 1st January, 1963, and the 
company had to start recruiting people from 21st January, 1963; hence at that 
stage no appointment letters were given and appointment letters were given 
only from June, 1963. Again these letters were withdrawn and replaced by 
fresh appointment letters and later on certain terms and conditions thereof were 
modified. In the circumstances, the mere fact that Shri Roy (who was almost 

the first person to be recruited after the E.RI. Scheme came into force) was 

not given an appointment letter at the time of his appointment would not neces- 
sarily mean that ho was recruited as a member of the general staff for general 
work. 

8. Reliance was then placed on a letter of 18th January, 1963, written by the 

Deputy Regional Manager of the company to its Branch Secretary, Asansol; a 
carbon copy thereof bearing the Deputy Regional Manager’s signature has been 
produced by the Union to whom it was given by Shri Roy. I am not satisfied 
with the explanation given by Shrj Roy as to how he came into possession of 
this letter. He says that this letter was given to him by the Deputy Regional 
Manager to be given to the Branch Secretary, Asansol; that he accordingly took 
it and gave it to the Branch Secretaiv; that later on when the original letter 
on the letter-head of the company was received by post by the Branch Secre- 
tary. he handed over this letter to Shri Roy. I do not believe this. There wa3 

no reason for the Branch Secretary to hhve handed over this lettei- to Shri Roy 

especially when it is said that he did so about 2 days after this letter was bund- 
ed over to him by Shri Roy. Actually, it. appears that Shri Roy has been making 
wrongful uses of certain office letters; for instance, when he wrote a letter to 
the Union on 27th July, 1064, he enclosed therewith a copy of the typing test 
of some clerk taken by another clerk with his remarks and initials. This typed 
letter of the typing test containing the remarks and initials of an employee of 



Sec. Sfli)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1905/ASVINA 24, 1887 3403 


the company would form part of the company's record and still Shri Roy sent 
it to the union showing that he was making wrongful use of the records of the 
company. It is, therefore, not unlikely that the signed carbon copy of the letter 
of the Deputy Regional Manager to :he Branch Secretary, was similarly extract- 
ed by him from the company’s file. 

9. This however makes no difference to the facts of the present case In 
whatever way Shri Roy got possession of this letter, it is an admitted fact that 
this letter was written by the Deputy Regional Manager to the Branch Secre- 
tary regarding appointment of Shii Roy. As the letter is important, I would 
give it in extenso here: 


(Emergency Risks Deptt.) 

The 18 th January , 1963 
The Actg., Branch Secretary, Asansol. 

Dear Sir, 

Emergency Risk Insurance : Appointment of one Assistant /Typist. 

Since we feel that you may require an additional hand for attending to all 
types of work in respect of the Emergency Risks Insurance business, we would 
suggest that one Assistant from our existing staff at Asansol experienced m 
office works may be deputed for this job and the vacancy that may be created 
in this connection has to be filled up by an additional hand. 

We are sending Shri Binoy Shankar Roy as a temporary typist for your 
office to fill up this vacancy. He is an experienced Typist and had been work- 
ing in the ‘Pool of Insurance Association’. 

We shall thank you very much if you kindly allow him to stay for a few 
days at the office premises till he manages to get a suitable accommodation for 
himself. 

Yours faithfully. 

Sd. Illegible 

Deputy Regional Manager. 

P.S: He would attend his duties on and from the 21st January, 1963. 
d/b. 

10. It was argued that this letter shows that an experienced e’erk from the 

general office was to be asked to do the E.R.T. work and Shri Roy was to be taken 
up in the general office to fill up the vacancy caused by the deputation of one of 
the clerks to the E.R.I. section and that accordingly Shri Roy was appointed to 
the general office. Whereas I agree with the first part of this contention, namely 
that the intention of this letter was that one of the clerks was to do E.R.I work 

and Shri Roy was to be taken up in the general department, I do not agree with 

the latter part of the contention that he was actually appointed in general depart- 
ment. The facts and circumstances of the case show that he was appointed to 
the E.R.I. department. 

11. The first para of the above letter mentions that an additional hand would 

be required in the Asansol office for E.R.I. work. It was, therefore, suggested 
that one assistant from the existing staff at Asansol may be deputed for this job 

and the vacancy that may be created in this connection would have to be filled 

up by an additional hand. The second para mentions that they were sending 
Shri B. S. Roy as a temporary typist to the Asanso] office to fill up this vacancy. 
It would, therefore, appear that the intention of the Deputy Regional Manager 
was that one of the regular clerks from the general office should be asked to do 
the E.R.I. work and that Shri Roy should be appointed in the general office in. 
place of that clerk. 

12. It however appears that the Branch Secretary appointed Shri Roy to the 
E.R.I. department without disturbing his general office. A bunch of papers have 
been produced by the Company regarding payments made to Shri Roy and in all 
the receipts and vouchers Shri Roy has been shown as a member of the E.R.I. 
staff. The receipts of payments made to Shri Roy refer to him as a temporary 
typist for E.R.I. work. The vouchers also show that he was in the E.R.I. depart- 
ment. Shri Roy has been referred like this in all the receipts as a member of 
the E.R.I. staff and he has signed all these -eceipts wherein he has been shown as 
a member of the E.R.I. staff. He is not iileterate person and his signatures on 
the different receipts wherein he has been shown as E.R.I. staff clearly indicate 



3404 THE t-AZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER Ifi. 1965/ASVINA 1 U, 1RB7 [PaR( II- 


that he knew that he was considered to be a member of the E.R.L staff. It may 
be noted that it is not in one or two receipts that this is so mentioned but he has 
been so mentioned in all the receipts. I may also mention in this connection that 
the company has produced some typed salary statements of the E.R.I. staff (or the 
months of November 1 903 and January J 904 to June 1964 separately lor each 
month. Each statement is headed "E.R.I, SALA 1 Y STATEMENT FOR THE 
MONTH OF" and in each statement Shri Roy’s name is 1 shown a;; a typist. In his 
deposition before me, Shri Roy has admitted that ail these statements were typed 
by him. In other words, he had positive knowledge thut he was shown as a 
member of the E.R.I. department and his salary was shown as E.R.I. salary. Tills 
is a very important document, showing that he was appointed to the E.R.I. de- 
partment, 

13. It is true that lor the first, few days he did some typing work but this has 
been explained on behalf of the Company that during the first tew days he was 
being given training. This appears to be so because even Shri Roy admits that 
after a tew days he was doing E.R.I. work. His contention however has been that 
he was doing not only E.R.I. work but general office work also. He has udmitted 
in his evidence that he was the only clerk in the office who was doing E.R.I. work. 
In other words, there was no other clerk doing E.R.I. work. It may he that he 
may not have sufficient work in the E.R.I. department and his services may have, 
therefore, been utilised for general work but that would not mean that he be- 
came a member of the general staff or that he ceased to be a member of the 
E.R.I. staff. The fact that he alone was the clerk doing E.R.I. work is a clear 
indication that he was apppointed to the E.R.I. department. 

14. According to the rules of the company, a clerk appointed in the general 
department would have to be made permanent within 3 months and would be 
entitled to the Provident Fund benefits. Admittedly Shri Roy was never made 
permanent and was never given Provident Fund benefits. He never made any com- 
plaint about this nor did he approach the Union or unyone else in this connec- 
tion. This again shows that he was recruited for E.R.I. work only. 

15. It was then urged that the Branch Secretary was not happy with Shri 
Roy’s appointment because he had his own candidate. In this connection, Shri 
Roy has said that the Branch Secretary Shri Sen was behaving rudely with him. 
When questioned on this point, he said that be was made to sit in an open veran- 
dah and that Shri Sen had verbally complained against Shri Roy to the Calcutta 
office and that someone inforced him about this. Shri Roy could not say as to 
who gave him this information. It is rather strange that someone should know 
nbout an oral complaint said to have been made by Shri Sen at Calcutta and 
that he should inform Shri Roy about it. Shri Roy has also complained that no 
fan was given to him but later on fie admitted that a fan was given but the fan was 
not working properly. Shri Sen had admitted that the fan had gone out of order for 
some time but it was repaired. A fan getting out of order is not an uncommon thing 
and merely because a particular fan went out of order it would not mean that Shri 
R'oy was deliberately treated in an improper way by Shri Sen, It is significant to note 
in this correction that Shri Roy never made 'any complaint about this alleged rude 
behaviour of Shri Sen to anyone. He says that he had once gone to Calcutta and 
complained about it to the Deputy Regional Manager but even after this Shri 
Sen’s behaviour is said to have remained as before; still Shri Roy did not repeat 
his complaint to the Deputy Regional Manager when he visited Asansol. He did 
not complain to the Regional Manager who also visited Asansol. He did not 
write any letter to anyone or to the Union. It was for the first time that he 
wrote a letter to the Union on 27th July, 1904, that is, on the eve of his retrench- 
ment. I do not attach any importance to the allegations made in this letter 
because of the fact that it was written when Shri Roy was about to he retrenched. 
The company had already decided to retrench its E.R.L. staff and had put up a 
notice on the Notice Board about it in June and Shri Roy’s name was included 
therein. After this, retrenchment notices had started to be given and Shri Roy 
expected the same notice and it was at this stage that he wrote this letter to the 
Union of which he was not even a member. In my opinion, this letter must have 
been written with a view to create evidence to suit his purpose. But even in 
this letter, there is no allegation that Shri Sen had behaved rudely with Shri Roy. 
It is one Shri Pal who is alleged to have been rude with htm and not Shri Sen. 
On the who'e, I do not believe Shri Roy about Sen being rude with him or about 
Shri Sen being not happy with his appointment, etc, 

16. Incidentally, I may mention here that even in this letter Shri Roy has not 
complained that though he was recruited as a member of the general staff, he 
was asked to do E.R.L work or that he was treated as a member of the E.R.I. staff. 
This allegation appears to me to be an after thought. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER. 18, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3^05 


17. As I mentioned earlier, the union mainly relies on the letter dated 18th 
January, 1963 written by the Deputy -Regional Manager to the Branch Secretary 
and contends that this establishes that Snri Roy was appointed as a member of 
the general stall. I may repeat that this appear to have been the intention of 
the Deputy Regional Manager. Somehow or other the Branch Secretary thought 
it fit to appoint Shri Roy to the E.R..I. Section. The letter shows that the Regional 
Manager ‘'suggested" that a senior clerk from the office may be deputed for 
E.R.I. work. In other words, that was a recommendation, and at least that, appears 
to have been so treated by the Branch Secretary. In any case, even if the Branch 
Secretary disobeyed the directions of the Regional office, it would be a matter 
between the Regional office and him. The workman concerned cannot take any 
advantage of it; because, so far us he is concerned, there is nothing to show that 
he was definitely told that he was recruited as a member of the general staff. All 
that he may have been told that he was appointed as a typist in the Asansol office 
and that is whv when he was asked to do the E.R.I, work and when he was paid 
as a member of the E.R.I. department, he never made any protest 

18. Admittedly E.R.I. work dwindled down in 1964 and the company decided 
to retrench its E.R.I. staff. It thereupon put up a notice on the Notice Board, 
giving a list of persons proposed to be retrenched as required by Rule 77 of the 
Industrial Disputes (.Central) Rules. Shri Roy's name was included in this list. 
The Union Secretary Shri Jagdish Prasad has admitted in his deposition that the 
list which has been produced here were the list which he had seen on Notice 
Board in June, 1964. As I mentioned above, Shri Roy’s name is included in it. 
This list is headed “List of employees engaged in the E.R.I, Section”. This also 
shows that Shri Roy was a member of the E.R.I. staff. After considering all the 
facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the opinion that Shri Roy was a 
member of the E.R.I. staff and not of the general stall. 

19. When the E.R.I. work dwindled down the company had to retrench the 
staff engaged for the purpose. It was therefore justified in retrenching Shri Roy 
who was appointed to do this work in the Asansol Branch. At this stage, I nlay 
also mention that even if he was recruited in the general department, because a 
member of the general department, was deputed to do E.R.I. work, when the 
E.R.I. work came to an end when a person had to be retrenched, it would be Shri 
Roy who would have to be retrenched because he was the junior most clerk in 
that office. On this ground also, his retrenchment would be justified. 

20. It was however contended that at the time of retrenchment the seniority 
should not be taken only of the particular office but it should be of the entire 
region. In this connection, however, the union’s case all along has been that 
members of the general staff are not liable to transfer. If that is so, the seniority 
that will have to be taken into account will be for the particular office and not for 
the entire region. 

21. It then appears that one or two clerks in Calcutta office in the E.R.I. section 
who had been appointed subsequent to Shri Roy and others were continued while 
others senior to them were retrenched and the company has justified this on the 
ground that they were doing a particular work which no other clerk could do. 
It is not necessary for me to express any opinion on this at this stage because 1 
find that the union has ultimately acquiesced in this position. At the time of 
the agreement of September, 1964, they consented to the clerks who had then 
not been retrenched and who were still continuing in service then to be so con- 
tinued and the clerks who had been retrenched were to be appointed as and when 
vacancies arose (in future). This means that the union’s and their Federation 
acquiesced in the retention of certain particular clerks when some clerks senior 
to them were retrenched. 

22. As I mentioned above, when the company decided to retrench the E.R.I. 
stall', they put up a list on the. Notice Board naming .34 persons whom they proposed 
to retrench. This notice was put on the Notice Board in June, 1964. From the 
evidence of the Union Secretary Shri Jagdish Prasad, it appears that the Union 
bad sent a telegram to the Labour Minister in June as they anticipated retrench- 
ment and it was alter this that the company had put up this notice on the Notice 
Board. Thereupon they wrote a letter to the Regional Labour Commissioner on 
18th June, 1964. In that letter, the union took up the case of the 34 persons whom 
the company wanted to retrench.. That means that they took up the case of all 
the 34 persons mentioned in the above notice, Shri Jagdish Prasad has stated in 
his deposition that the Conciliation Officer had not taken any action in this matter 
but the Union did not pursue the matter further because they had moved their 
association (Federation) , who had taken up the matter with the Company. As I 
J have already stated above, the dispute between the company and the Federation 



3406 T[iE CA:/£7 1 E OF, INDIA ; OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887’ [I’aht ID- 


resulted in an agreement dated 3rd September, 1064, before the Regional Labour 
Commissioner, Bombay, That agreement was signed by the General Secretary 
of the Federation. Shri Jagdlsh Prasad admits that this agreement is binding on 
them as their union is affiliated to the Federation but he contends that it does not 
cover the ease of Shri B. S. Roy. According to the terms of this settlement, out 
of those employees who were working in the E.R.I. department, some employees 
were still continuing in service on 3rd September, 1964, and they were to be 
retained in service and the regular vacancies in the different regions were to be, 
first filled up from the retrenched employees in order of seniority. The agree- 
ment then dealt with some employees who had resigned from E..R.I. department 
but were later taken up in the service of the company and in their case they were 
to be given the benefit of their service In the E.R.I. department. Lastly, the 
agreement dealt with those employees of the E.R.I. department who had already 
been retrenched, In their case it was agreed that they were to be given prefer- 
ence on region-wise basis for appointment in the regular vacancies arising after 
absorbink the employees of the E.R.I. department who were still continuing In 
service. It was further agreed that all these employees were to be allowed to 
contribute _ to the Provident Fund from the date they were absorbed, Lastly it 
was mentioned that this was an overall settlement of the dispute regarding re- 
trenchment of he E.R.I, department staff in all regions. 

28. As I mentioned above, Shri Roy was a member of the E.R.I. department or, 
at any rate, he was considered such by all concerned. His name was included in 
the list of the E.R.I. staff which was to be retrenched and the union had raised an 
Industrial dispute regarding all the persons mentioned tn the Ust which included 
Shii Roy. The above settlement was a settlement of this dispute and it cannot, 
therefore, be said that it did not cover the case of Shri Roy, This settlement 
was arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings and would be binding on 
all parties to the dispute under section 18(3) of the Art. Under clause (d> of this 
sub-section, it would be binding on Shri Roy also. 

24. It is significant to note that Shri Roy has got an advantage of this settle- 

ment. This settlement, as I mentioned above, laid down that those employees of 
the E.R.I. department who were still continuing to work and who were 63 in num- 
ber were to be absorbed first and then those persons who had been retrenched 

were to be given preference for appointment In regular vacancies and all these 
persons when they were absorbed were to be allowed to contribute to the Provident 
fund from the date of absorbtion. As i mentioned earlier. If a person Is appointed 
as a clerk for the first time, he would get the benefit of Provident fund scheme 
only after 3 months. But in the case of these people, they were to he made 
permanent from the very first day and they were also to get advantage of the 
Provident fund scheme from the very first day. 

25. It appears that because of this agreement, the company wrote a letter to 

Shri Roy on 15th January 1965 offering him the post of a typist in the regular 

cadre at Its Jamshedpur office as a vacancy arose then In that office. He was 
asked to fill in an application form If he wanted to accept the iob and thereupon 
he filled In that form and was appointed as an assistant (typing) In the Jamshed- 
pur office with effect from 27th January 1965. A letter of appointment was given 
to him on 2nd February 1965 wherein it was mentioned that he was appointed on 
permanent basis and also that he was allowed to join the Staff Provident Fund 
with effect from the date of his appointment (27th January 1965). Shri Roy is 
admittedly working in the Jamshedpur office. But for the ahove settlement, when 
he was appointed in Jamshedpur office, he would have been on probation for a 
period of 3 months and would not have got the advantage of provident fund 
scheme. But because of the above settlement, he was appointed on a permanent 
basis and got the advantage of the Provident fund scheme from the very first clay. 
Thus, he has got advantage of the agreement) which has thus been acted upon 
both by the Company and him. 

26. I may mention here that It was contended on behalf of the union that the 
notice given to Shri Roy regarding his retrenchment was illegal. This notice 
mentions that his appointment In the E.R.I. section would stand terminated with 
effect from the close of business on 31st July 1964; that he would be paid bis salary 
for July and also one month’s salary in lieu of notice, salary against the privilege 
leave due to his credit, bonus and compensation that is provided under Section 
25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, It was contended that Section 25F requires 
three things before a person could be retrenched. The first is that the workman 
has to be given one month’s notice in writing indicating reasons for retrenchment, 
or the workman has to be paid in lieu of such notice, wages for the period of 
notice. Secondly, it requires that the workman has to be paid at the time of 



Sfc. S(ii)J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, J963/ASVINA 24, 1887 3407 


retrenchment certain compensation and lastly it requires that notice in the pres- 
cribed manner has to be served on the appropriate Government. It was contended 
that the above notice was illegal firstly because it did not indicate the reason lor 
retrenchment and secondly because notice in the prescribed manner had not been 
served on the appropriate Government. At the time of arguments, however, it was 
conceded that not giving of a notice to Government would not invalidate the notice 
because it did not afreet the workman. It was however urged that the notice that 
was given did not indicate the reason lor retrenchment. This is so. It would 
however not affect the validity of the notice, It is not required that reasons must 
be given but that they were to bo indicated. In other words, it means that the 
workman should be made to feel that there was reason for the said retrenchment. 
In the present case, the company had already put up a notice on the Notico Board 
in June about the proposed retrenchment of all the members of the E.R.I. staff. 
Again, when a person was paid wagos for one month in lieu of notice, there was 
■no question of giving a notice and then there would be no 
question of indicating reasons in the notice. Actually, the company need not 
have given a notice or written a letter at all. It could have paid up to Shri Roy 
his salary due, salary for one month in lieu of notice, etc., and orally tcld him 
that he was discharged on retrenched. It could not then have been said that the 
requirements ol clause (a) of Section 25F were not fulfilled. In any case, the non- 
lndication of reason is not so vital as to vitiate the notice. 

27. Before I close, I may mention that in the written statement the company 
had contended that the order of reference was bad in law and the reference was 
not legally maintainable. In support of this, it was contended that Shri Roy was 
not a member of the union and that this was only an individual dispute. At the 
time of arguments, this contention was not pressed. It Is an admitted fact that 
Shri Roy was not a member of the union at the time when he was discharged. 
He however approached the union and we have the evidence of the Union General 
Secretary that the union passed a special resolution to take up his case and there- 
upon took up the case. It is not necessary that a union can take up the case only 
of its members. It can take up the case of a non-member also. Even if the dispute 
relates to a non member, if it is taken up by the workmen as a whole, that is by 
union representing the workmen, it would become an industrial dispute. I there- 
fore hold that this is an industrial dispute and the reference is not illegal or bad 
(n law. 

28. To sum up, I hold that Shri Roy was taken up as a member of the E.R.I. 
staff: that he was duly and properly retrenched as a result of the company’s E.R.I, 
work having gone down; that in any case there has been a settlement of the dispute 
which settlement is binding not only on the union but also on Shri Roy and in 
any case, therefore, Shri Roy is not entitled to any relief. Looking to the peculiar 
facts of the case, I order parties to bear their own costs. 


I pass my award accordingly. 


(Sd ) L. P. Dave, 

Presiding Officer. 


The 21st September, 1065. [N 0 . 70(B)/64-LRIV.j 

New Delhi, the 30 th September 1965 

S.O. 3234. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 cf 
1947)" the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial' Tribunal Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Umaria Colliery P.O. Umaria, District Shahdol and their workmen whir 
was received by the Central Government on the 17th September, 1965. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL AT BOMBAY 
Reference No. CGIT 17 or 1964 

Employers in relation to Umaria Colliery, Post Office Umaria, District— Shahdol, 
Madhya Pradesh, 

And 

Their_workmen 
Present : 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 

Dated at Bombay, this 14th day nf September, 1965 



3408 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 


[Part If— 


Industry : Coal-mining 


State: Madhya Pradesh. 


AWARD (PART IV) 

1. The Central Government, by the Ministry cf Labour & Employment’s Order 
No. 5/47/63-LPJI dated 24th January. 1964. made in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (Act XIV of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the 
parties above-named in respect of the subject-matters specified in the following 
schedule to the said order, to me for adjudication. — 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of the Umaria Colliery was justified in dismissing 
the following workmen from service; and if not, to what x'elief are 
these workmen entitled? 

1. Shri Ganesh, Ticket Wo. 811, Miner. 

2. Shri Sudhua, Ticket No. 633, Miner. 

3. Shri Baisakhoo, Ticket No. 734, Miner. 

4. Shri Girdhari, S/o Sirmani, Ticket No. 755. 

5. Shri Milan, Ticket No. 717, Miner. 

6. Shri Ganpat, 1261. 

7. Shri Majnoo, Ticket No. 753, Miner. 

8. Shri Bhakua, S/o Charka, Ticket No. 692.” 

2. By my Award Part I herein dated 3rd June, 1965, I recorded the settlement 
that had been reached between the employers above-named and two of the eight, 
workmen under reference, viz. Shri Ganesh. Ticket No. 811, Miner (Serial No. 1 in 
the Schedule) and Shri Bhakua. s/o Charka,. Ticket Wo. 692 (Serial No. 8 in the 
Schedule), and treated the dispute in respect of these two workmen as settled. 

3. By my Award Part II dated 19th July, 1965, I recorded the settlement that 
had been reached between the employers above-named and Shri Sudhua. Ticket 
No. 633, Miner (Serial No. 2 in the Schedule), and treated the dispute in respect of 
this workman as settled. 

4. By my Award Part III dated 1st September, 1965, I recorded a settlement 
that had been reached between the employers above-named and Shri Girdhari, 
s/o Sirmani, Ticket No. 755 (Serial No. 4 in the Schedule), and treated the dispute 
in respect of this workman as settled. 

5. Thereafter. Shri Ganpat, s/o Bhaddi Kole, 1261 (Serial No. 6 in the Schedule) 
filed an application on affidavit made by him before the Magistrate 1st Class, 
Umaria, (M.P.), dated 2nd September, 1965, in which he has stated that he has 
amicable settled his dispute in this reference with the management of Umarra 
Colliery, and has also received final payment from them against all his claims, and 
has prayed for an order that his dispute be treated as withdrawn and closed. The 
management have by their application dated 6th September, 1965, confirmed the 
settlement reached, and have also prayed that the dispute in respect of this work- 
man be marked settled and orders passed accordingly. 

6. From the above, it appears that this workman, Shri Ganpat, s/o Bhaddi Kole, 
1261 (Serial No. 6 in the Schedule) has settled his dispute in this reference with 
the management and has received payment in full satisfaction of his claims there- 
in, and therefore, his claims in this dispute are treated as settled and the dispute 
concerning him disposed off accordingly. 

7. No order as to costs. 

Sd./- Salim M. Merchant, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 5/47/63-LRII.J 

New Delhi , the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3235. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following report of 
the Central Government Court of Enquiry, Bombay, in the matter of industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Marmugoa Stevedors’ Associa- 
tion, Marmugoa Harbour, and their workmen which was received by the Central 
Government on 13th September, 1965. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3409 


THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT COURT OF ENQUIRY AT BOMBAY 

Employers in relation to the Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association, Mormugoa 
Harbour, 


AND 


Their Workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, Sole Member. 

Appearances: 

1. For the Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association, Mormugoa Harbour. — Shri 

N. M. Dattani, President. 

2. For Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association. — Shri A. S. Devasthali, 

Labour Officer, and Shri G. P. Peris, Shipping Manager. 

3. For ( i ) Chowgule & Co. Ltd. and (ii) Chowgule Brothers . — Shri A. S. 

Devasthali, Labour Officer, and Shri G. P. Peris, Shipping Manager. 

4. For the Government of Goa , Daman and Diu. — Shri K. B. Kenny, Labour 

Commissioner, Panjim. 

5. For the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Bombay. — Shri S. N. 

Dikhale, Regional Labour Commissioner. 

6. For the All India Port and Dock Workers’ Federation and the Transport 

& Dock Workers’ Union, Goa. — Shri S. R. Kulkami, President of the 

Federation, and Shri Ramesh Desai, Secretary of the Union. 

7. For the Indian National Port & Dock Workers’ Federation and the Goa 

Dock Labour Union ( INTUC ), Vasco-da-gama.- — Shri H. N. Trivedi, 

President of the Federation and Shri D. A. Deshpande, President of 

the Union. 

8. For the Mormugoa Port, Dock & Transport Workers’ Union (AITUC ). — 

Shri Gerald Pereira, General Secretary. . 

Dated at Bombay this 8th day of September, 1965 

REPORT 

1. The Government of India, by the Ministry of Labour & Employment notifi- 
cation No. 28/81/64 LRIV, dated 28th November, 1964, made in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 6 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Act XIV of 1947) 
constituted a Court of Enquiry, with me as its Sole Member, and referred to me 
under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (Act XIV of 1947) the following matters specified in the schedule to the 
said notification: 


Schedule 

“(i) What are the causes of industrial unrest between the employers in rela- 
tion to the Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association, Mormugoa Harbour, 
and their workmen noticeable during the last year? and 

(ii) What are the measures to be adopted to improve the relationship bet- 
ween the said employers and workmen there?” 

2. After the notification was received, a preliminary hearing was fixed at 
Bombay on 28th December 1964, when directions were given for parties concerned 
to file their written statements by 15th January, 1965, simultaneously exchanging 
copies between themselves — rejoinder, if any, to be filed by 22nd January, 1965. 
The Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association offered to submit the names of individual 
stevedores in Mormugoa Harbour who employed winchmen and it was decided to 
issue notices to them also for written statements by 15th January, 1965. The Goa 
Dock Labour Union, the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association qua barge-owners 
and Messrs Chowgule & Co. Ltd. qua its mechanical ore handling plant at Mor- 
mugoa were also directed to submit their written statements. An exhaustive list 
of individual stevedores at Marmugoa Port was also filed by Shri N. M. Dattani 
on behalf of the Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association. It was also decided to ask 
the Government of Goa and the Chairman, Mormugoa Port Trust, to file their 
written statements by 15th January, 1965. 

3. I may state that because of the strike and the disorders connected therewith 
which had preceded the order of reference to this Court, Shri Gerald Pereira, 



3410 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA,; OCTOBER 16, 1965/AN VINA 24, 1887 [Past II- 


General Secretary of the Mormugoa Port, Dock & Transport Workers’ Union 
(AITUC) was under detention and from there he made applications from time 
to time to tile the written statement on behalf of his Union. Other parties also 
asked for time for various reasons, which, in the circumstances of the situation, 
had to be granted. Thereafter, (i ) Lima Lcitao & Co Ltd., Mormugoa, hied their 
written statement on 11th January, 1965 and (ii) Messrs Chowgule & Co. Ltd., 
Mormugoa and Chowgule Brothers filed their written statements dated 12th 
January, 1965 and (iii) the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association on behalf of 
the barge-owners in Goa filed its written statement on 18th January, 1965. The 
Goa Mineral Ore Exporters' Association also addressed other communications to 
the Court of Enquiry forwarding circulars, charters of demands, etc. However, 
-on 20th January, 1965, Chowgule & Co, Ltd. intimated that the strike of its mecha- 
nical ore handling plant workers and its barges' staff which had commenced on 
12th November, 1961, had been called off. (iv) The President, Mormugoa Steve- 
dores’ Association, filed its written statement on 20th January, 1965. (v) The Goa 
Dock Labour Union (INTUC) filed its written statement dated 29th January, 
1965, to which the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association filed its rejoinder 
dated 26th February, 1965. (vij The Government of Goa, Daman and Diu through 
Shri B. K. Chowgule, Secretary, Industries and Labour Dcpartmeht, filed its 
written statement dated 23rd January, 1965, which contained a narration of 
important events relating to industrial unrest in Mormugoa Port since 
May, 1963. (vii) The Mormugoa Port, Dock and Transport Workers’ Union, Vasco- 
da-gama, filed its written statement dated 17th March, 1965, after their General 
Secretary, Shri Gerald Pereira, had been released from detention. ( viii) The 
Transport & Dock Workers’ Union, Goa, filed its written statement dated 7th April, 
1965. (ix) The Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association filed its rejoinder dated 
14th April, 1965 to the written statement of the Mormugoa Port, Dock & Trans- 
port Workers’ Union, Vasco-da-gama, and it again referred to it in its rejoinder 
dated 22nd April, 1965. This Association also filed rejoinders to the written sub- 
mission of the Goa Dock Labour Union as made by one of its members, Messrs 
G. N. Aggarwala. (x) Finally the Court of Enquiry received a written statement 
dated 17th March, 1965 signed by Shri Gerald Pereira as General Secretary for 
the Mormugoa Port, Dock & Transport Workers’ Union, which is affiliated to the 
Port, Dock & Water-front Workers Federation of India. 

4. In the meantime, after the strike was called off on 26th January 1965, the 
labour situation in Mormugoa Port showed a distinct improvement, which was 
accelerated by the constitution on 15th April, 1965 of a Dock Labour Board for 
Mormugoa Docks and the- grant of representation on that Board to the three 
Unions on record in this reference. Conditions having thus radically improved 
in Mormugoa Port, no party showed any desire for the enquiry to be proceeded 
■with. 

Thereafter, by notice dated 23rd August, 1965, the hearing of the enquiry 
was fixed at Bombay on 2nd September, 1965. 

5. At this hearing, Shri Gerald Pereira for the Mormugoa Pori, Dock and 
Transport Workers’ Union (AITUC) stated that in view of the changed circums- 
tances and the prevailing industrial peace in Mormugoa Port, no useful purpose 
would be served by continuing with the enquiry. He said that if the enquiry 
were to be proceeded with, it would cause more harm than good. He, therefore, 
applied that the enquiry be closed. Shri D. A Deshpande, President, Goa Dock 
Labour Union (INTUC) Vasco-da-gama, stated that he shared the opinion of 
Shri Pereira, and joined in the application, Then, Shri N. M. Dattani, President, 
Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association, Mormugoa Harbour, endorsed that the situ- 
ation in Mormugoa Port had changed completely since the notification appointing 
the Court of Enquiry was made and that at present there was no industrial un- 
rest in Marmugoa Port. He stated that his Association desired that this enquiry 
ehould not be proceeded with, and should be closed. Shri S. R. Kulkarni, Presi- 
dent of the All India Port and Dock Workers’ Federation, pleaded that if the 
enquiry were proceeded with and completed, its report might be a guidance for 
the future. He, however, also stated that it was not his desire to rake up the 
past, but to bury it, and that he did not want the ugly features of the past to 
cast its shadow on the future labour relations in the Mormugoa Port. He 
repeated that he did not want to come in the way of the parties wanting to close 
the enquiry. It appears that Shri Kulkarni’s apprehensions are two-fold. Firstly, 
that the employers against whom his Federation and the Union affiliated to it 
at Mormugoa had disputes with regard to (a) non-implementation of agree- 
ments already reached and (b) non-payment of wages, etc., would, if this 
enquiry was not proceeded with, consider that those demands were given up by 
his Federation and Union, and secondly, that the charter of demands under the 
notice of strike given by his Union dated on or about 12tti August, 1$65 would, 



Dec, 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, I965/ASVINA 21, 1BH7 


be prejudiced. Ail the same, Shri 3. R. Kulkarni was realistic enough to say that 
what he was stating was merely by way of sounding a note of warning and that 
his desire was not to come in the way of parties who desired to close the enquiry. 

6. Shri Devasthali, Labour Officer for Chowgule and Co. Ltd. and Chowgule 
Brothers desired on behalf of these two companies that the enquiry should be 
proceeded with, He, however, conceded that at present there was industrial 
peace in Mormugoa Port, but his anxiety appeared to be that if the enquiry was 
proceeded with, these two Companies would be able to justify their stand with 
regard to the mechanical ore handling plant, as slated in their written state- 
ments, and this, in his opinion, would be a guidance for the future. However, 
Shri Devasthali, finally stated that he was prepared to leave the question of 
whether the enquiry should be proceeded with or not to the Court of Enquiry- 

7. Shri S. M. Dikhalc, the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Bombay, 
urged that due consideration should be given to the change in the circumstances 
since the Court of Enquiry was constituted. He stated that just before the Court - 
■ol Enquiry was constituted there were repeated strikes In Mormugoa Harbour, and 
lhat constitutional methods had not always been adhered to. But now the picture 
had changed completely and for the last seven or eight months there was indus- 
trial peace, if not complete harmony. In his opinion, the establishment by the 
Central Government ot a Dock Labour Board for the Port of Mormugoa under 
the provisions of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1648 (Act 

9 of 1948) LSee Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part II, Sec. 3(i] dated 15th 
April, 1960, pages 431 and 432] had helped to bring industrial peace and to con- 
tinue with the enquiry would necessarily mean raking up the unpleasant inci- 
dents and features of the past, and would not serve the purpose for which the 
Court of Enquiry was constituted. He stated that all parties in Mormugoa Port 
were now taking advantage of the conciliation machinery, and on the whole the 
situation was peaceful and it would be in the interest of both parties, employers 
and labour, to drop the enquiry and give the present labour situation a chance 
to continue in a peaceful atmosphere. He further stated that he was in Goa 
only last month and had occasion lo meet the Chairman of the Mormugoa Port 
Trust, as also the Labour Minister of the Government of Goa. Daman and Dui, 
both of whom had taken note of the changed situation and nad expressed the 
opinion that this enquiry should not be proceeded with, and that was, according 
to Shri Dikhale, the probable reason, why they were not represented at the 
hearing on 2nd September, 1965. He also stated that according to his informa- 
tion, the Government of Goa, Daman and Dui was considering withdrawing many 
of the prosecutions which had been launched as a result of the strike which 
commenced on 12th November, 1964. 

8. This Court of Enquiry has been constituted under Section 6 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, and the reference has been made by the Central Govern- 
ment in exercise of the powers conferred by claus (b) of sub-setion (1) of section 

10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. The question referred to me are to find out 
what were the causes of the industrial unrest between the employers in relation to 
the Mormugoa Stevedores' Association and their workmen, noticeable during the 
last one year prior to the order of the date of reference, and the Court of 
Enquiry has also been asked to recommend what are the measures to be adopted 
In improving the relationship between the said employers and their workmen. 
It is clear, therefore, that the purpose of the enquiry is not only to find out the 
causes for the past industrial unrest which afflicted the Port of Mormugoa, but 
also to recommend measures to improve them- As admitted by the represen- 
tatives of all parties — employers and labour — since the reference was made, there 
has been a radical and complete change in the labour situation in Mormugoa 
Port. The existing strike on the date of the reference has been called off, work 
in the Port has not only been resumed but has been accelerated. A Dock Labour 
Board has been constituted with representatives of industry and labour, and all 
the three Unions representing the various sections of dock and port labour at 
Mormugoa have been accorded representation thereon, and the Port is now under 
the charge of a Board of Trustees where labour has also been given, and has 
accepted, representation. As I have stated earlier, the reference refers to the 
industrial unrest that, existed in Mormugoa Port between the employers in rela- 
tion to Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association in Mormugoa Harbour, and their 
workmen. Now, Shri N. M. Dattani, the President of this Association, who, I am 
glad to say, has played a conspicuous part in bringing about industrial peace in 
Mormugoa" Port, is of the opinion that no useful purpose would be served by 
proceeding with the enquiry and that the interest of industrial peace and the 
restoration of harmonious relationship would be better served by not proceed- 
ing with the enquiry, and he has joined the application of the representatives of 
labour for the enquiry to be closed. The Goa Dock Labour Union (INTUC) and the 



3412 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 


[Part II- 


Dock and Transport Workers’ Union (ATTUC) have also stated that no useful 
purpose would be served by the enquiry being proceeded with, and have expres- 
sed a fear that to proceed with the enquiry would do more harm than good. 
Shri S. R, Kulkarnt, the President of the All India Port and Dock Workers’ 
Federation, who undoubtedly wields considerable influence over dock workers in 
the country, including the Port of Mormugoa, whilst not wishing to come in the 
way of the enquiry being dropped as desired by the other two Unions, was only 
apprehensive that if the enquiry were not proceeded with, it would adversely 
affect the pending demands of his Federation and the Union affiliated to it at 
Goa, have been making against the employers there for non-fulfilment of agree- 
ments already entered into and ron-paymerxt of wages, etc. and his fear also is 
that the non-prcsecution of this enquiry would adversely affect the Charter of 
demands which his Union at Mormugoa has made recently'. When Shri Kulkarni 
was assured by me that his fears were not weii founded, and that the said dis- 
putes which his Federation and his Union at Mormugoa has made would not be 
prejudiced by this enquiry not being proceeded with, he stated that his only 
desire was to sound a note of warning and he did not wish to come in the way 
of non-prosecution of the enquiry, as desired by the other two Unions and the 
Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association. 

9. With regard to Shri Devasthali’s submissions, it must be remembered that 
the dispute as referred is with regard to employers who were members of the 
Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association, and that his two companies were asked to 
make the statements after the reference was made. However, Shri Devasthali 
finally left the question whether or not the proceedings should be proceeded 
with to my decision. 

10. After an anxious consideration of the submissions made by the parties, I 
am positively and firmly of the opinion that no useful purpose would be served 
by proceeding with this enquiry and that on the contrary if the enquiry is pro- 
ceeded with, it would adversely affect the present industrial peace in Mormugoa 
Harbour, which has been prevailing since the last seven or eight months. 
Shri Dikhaie, the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Bombay, who has 
considerable experience of industrial disputes in Docks and Ports, and who is 
intimately acquainted with the labour situation in Mormugoa Port since it has 
become a major Port, was firmly of the opnion that if the enquiry were pro- 
ceeded with, it would do more harm than good. I am satisfied from the state- 
ments made by Shri Dikhaie that the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu, as 
also the Administration of the Port of Mormugoa are also of the same opinion. 
The majority of the employers in Mormugoa Port who are represented by the 
Mormugoa Stevedores’ Association, which is the principal party in this dispute, 
and whose membership constitutes the majority of the employers in Mormugoa 
Port, have definitely urged that the enquiry be not proceeded with. It is only 
the representative of the two firms who expressed their desire for the enquiry 
to be proceeded with, but whose representative ultimately left it to me to decide 
whether or not the enquiry should be proceeded with. In these circumstances,. 
I am satisfied that the desire of the majority of the employers and the Unions 
representing the labour in Mormugoa Port that the enquiry should not be pro- 
ceeded with in the interest of industrial peace, is justified, and I, therefore, close 
the enquiry and submit my report as stated above to the Government of India. 

11. I should, however, like to make it clear that the non-prosecution of this 
dispute before this Court of Enquiry must not be deemed to have prejudiced 
either party’s position with regard to existing industrial disputes arising out of 
charters of demands submitted or implementation of existing agreements, etc. 

12. I should like to commend the spirit of mutual accommodation and co- 
operation shown by the representatives of all the parties — both employers and 
labour — at the hearing before me on 2nd September, 1965, and to express my 
appreciation of the part that Shri S. M. Dikhaie, the Regional Labour Commis- 
sioner (Central), at Bombay has played in bringing about this agreement 
between the parties. 


(Sd.) Salim M. Merchant, 

Sole Member, 

The Central Government Court of Enquiry at Bombay. 

[No. 28/81/64-LRIV.J 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24, 1887 3 jj 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1965 

S.O. 3236. — The following corrigendum issued by the Central Government In- 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay to its award given in the Industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to Union Lighterage Company, Bombay and their work- 
men wnich was published with the Government of India, Ministry of Labour and 
Emp'oyment S.O. 2382. dated the 20th July, 1965 at pages 2604-2605 of the Gazette 
of l'rdia. Pan II Section 3. Sub-section (ii), dated the 31st July, 1965, is hereby 
published under rule 28 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules, 1957, name- 
ly:— 

“BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-71 of 1964 

Employers in relation to Messrs Union Lighterage Company, Bombay 

AND 

Their Workmen 

In exercise of the powers conferred on, me by Rule 28 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Central) Rules, 1957, I hereby issue the following corrigendum in respect of a 
clerical error which has occurred in para 6 of my Award dated 7th July, 1965, 
pub ished in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3 Sub-section (ii) dated the 

31st July, 1965. 


Corrigendum 

For the words “for every 11 shifts attended” occurring in the penultimate line 
of paragraph 6 of my above Award, read “for every 11 days attended”.”. 

Sd./- Salim M. Merchant, 

Bombay, 9th September, 1965. Presiding Officer. 

[No. 2,8/64/64/LRI V.] 


S.O. 3237. — The following corrigendum issued by the Central Government In- 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay to its award given in the Industrial Dispute between 
the employers in relation to Union Lighterage Company, Bombay and their work- 
men which was published with the Government of India, Ministry of Labour and 
Employment notification No. S.O. 2385, dated the 20th July, 1965, at pages 2613- 
2014 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 31st 
July, 1965, is hereby published under rule 28 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) 
Rules, 1957, namely: — 

“BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-75 of 1964 

Employers in relation to Messrs Union Lighterage Company, Bombay 

AND 

Their Workmen 

In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rule 28 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes (Central) Rules 1957, I hereby issue the following corrigendum in 
respect of a clerical error which has occurred in para 6 of my Award dated 5th 
July, 1965, published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) 
dated 31st July, 1965. 


Corrigendum 

For the words “for every 11 shifts attended” occurring in the penultimate line 
of paragraph 6 of my above Award read “for every 11 days attended”.”. 

Sd./- Salim M. Merchant, 

Presiding Officer. 
[No. 28/63/64-LRIV .] ! 

Bombay, 9th September, 1965. 



34 14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 18, 1985/ASVINA 24, 1887 [Past II - 


New Delhi, the 8th October 1965 

S.O. 3238. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri 
Anand Narain Kaul, Arbitrator In the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to Messrs Bikaner Gypsum Limited,, Bikaner and their workmen 
represented by the Gypsum Mine Workers Union, Jamsar which was received by 
the Central Government on the 25th September, 1985. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, D ELH I 

Present : 

Shri Anand Narain Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi 
The 31st August, 1965 

Arbitration Case No. 1 of 1965 

BETWEEN 

The management of Messrs. Bikaner Gypsum Limited, Bikaner. 

AND 

Their workmen as represented by the Gypsum Mine Workers Union, Jamsar. 

Shii S. N. Bhandari for Dr. Anand Parkash — for the management. 

Shri Y. R. Bhasin- — for the workmen. 

AWARD 

Messrs Bikaner Gypsum Limited, Bikaner (to be referred to hereinafter as 
the company) and the Gypsum Mine Workers’ Union, Jamsar, representing their 
workmen (to be referred to hereinafter as the union) entered into a written 
agreement under the provisions of sub-section (1). of Section 10A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 to refer an industrial dispute existing between the above- 
named parties for decision to me as an arbitrator. The agreement which the 
Central Government was pleased to publish, under Sub-section (3) of Section 10A 
of the Act by S.O. dated the 18th January, 1965, is as follows: — 

“(i) Specific matters in dispute. Whether the dismissals of Shri R. N. 

Bhatnagar, Supervisor and Shri 
Sumer Singh, Chowkidar, are justified 
and if not to what relief they are 
entitled? 

(ii) Details of parties to the dispute Bikaner Gypsums Ltd., Bikaner, and 
including the name and address Gypsum Mine Workers Union, Jam- 
of the establishment or undertak- sar. In this dispute the establish- 
ing involved. ment involved is Bikaner Gypsums 

Ltd. 

(Hi) Name of the Union if any re- Gypsum Mine Workers Union, Jam- 
presonting the workmen in ques- sar. 
tion. 

(iv) Total number of workmen em- 642. 
ployed in the undertaking in- 
volved. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen 2". 
affected or likely to be affected 
by th dispute. 

2. After the parties had filed their respective written statements and tha 
Union had filed a rejoinder, I heard on the 15th and 1 6th March the learned 
representatives of the parties namely, Dr. Anand Parkash for the management 
and Shri Y. R. Bhasin along with Shri Sita Ram for the union, In regard to tha 
case of Shri Sumer Singh, Chowkirlar, my award was directed In the presence 
of the parties while in regard to the case of Shri R. N. Bhatnagar, Supervisor, 
the parties had expressed their readiness to attempt a mutual settlement falling 
which his case was to be heard separately by me. After a number of adjourn- 
ments the parties ultimately filed a settlement on the 6th August, 1965 which 
was duly verified and an award is to be made accordingly. 

Case of Shri Sumer Singh, Chowkidar-, 

3. The charge-sheet that was issued to this workman on the 24th July, 1064 
related to an alleged misconduct committed on the 22nd July, 1964 at about 



Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1%5/ASVINA 24, 1867 3415 


1-05 p.m. In the charge-sheet itself while the name of the Enquiry-Officer was 
not mentioned, a direction was given that the workman was entitled, in accord- 
ance with the standing orders of the concern, to give names of three persons 
from the same Establishment who could be observers at the enquiry and one of 
whom was to be allowed by the Enquiry Officer to act as such. It appears that 
the actual notice of the time and date of the enquiry was communicated to the 
workman through a notice dated the 8th September, 1964 issued by the Enquiry 
Officer himself which was received by the workman at 3 p.m., on the same 
date while the enquiry was to start at 8 a.m., on the next date. The workman 
is said to have handed over to the Enquiry Officer himself a list of three persons 
as observers at about 9-30 a.m. The three observers named were Shri R. C. Shukla, 
Shri Sita Ram Aggarwal and Shri I, L. Gupta of whom only Shri Aggarwal’ 
belonged to the Establishment at Jainsar while S/Shri Shukla and Gupta did not 
belong to the samp Establishment. It may be stated here that Shri Shukla, 
although not belonging to the same Establishment, had been allowed to act as an 
observer in another enquiry against the workman at Jarnsar but the management’s 
case is that it was under exceptional circumstances that Shri Shukla was "allowed 
to act as an observer, the reason being that the Establishment involved contained 
only two employees one being the Mines Manager and the other the workman 
himself, in regard to Shri Aggarwal the objection Is that he had been already 
acting as an observer in another enquiry, during the same quarter, and under 
the exception to clause 23(h) of the standing orders, he was debarred from acting 
as an observer. Shri Bhasin has, however, pointed out that it is the point of 
time at which the observer is designated as such which is important and that 
Shri Aggarwal had been designated as such in the previous quarter although he 
was continuing to act as observer in the other enquiry which had not closed in 
the quarter concerned. Quite apart from the merits of the eligibility of an 
observer I am not satisfied that the workman had a fair opportunity to select his 
observer. Obviously the workman could not be expected to give the names of 
his observers at the Enquiry because it was the Enquiry Officer himself who 
was to select the observer. Therefore, it was incumbent on the Enquiry Officer 
to give him a reasonably sufficient time to submit his list of observers. There 
seems to me no reason why in this particular case Shri Aggarwal who belongs 
to the same Establishment could not be permitted to appear as an observer since 
the management had already if only as an exceptional measure allowed Shri 
Shukla to act as an observer in another case although he did not belong to that 
Establishment. 


4. On the merits of the ease I may say, at the very outset, that the explanation 
submitted by the workman himself if read between the lines may be taken as a 
virtual admission of his having committed n misconduct. The argument that 
he was entitled to rest ufter five hours duty Is not convincing, even If the 
principle was applicable to Chowkidars. On behalf of the management, my atten- 
tion has been drawn to a circular allegedly issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines 
exempting the Chowkidars from the operation of the Rule which entitles a 
workman after 5 hours continuous duty to rest. Although there Is nothing on 
record to show that this Notification was duly published, still even if there was 
nn such Notification I find it difficult to accept the argument that the Chowkidar 
would be automatically entitled to a rest without an alternative arrangement _ of 
a Chowkidar being made during the period ot rest. Be that as it may, reading 
the explanation of the Chowkidar along with the evidence of Shri Rahim Shah, 
the management’s witness, who it is not denied is the President of the Gypsums 
Workers’ Union, it does not appear that the case of the management is without 
substance. Even the explanation which the workman is alleged to have given to 
Shri Rahim Shah is that he was dozing and that he might have gonc_ to sleep. 
In the circumstances I do not consider it necessary to have a fresh enquiry before 
me on the merits although I am not satisfied that the principles of natural justice 
or the requirements of the standing orders had been fully observed before the 
enquiry was started. It is on the record that, after the order of dismissal was 

communicated to the workman he sent a letter in which he stated that he was 

surprised that the enquiry had been conducted against him and that his request 
for the appointment of an observer had been turned down. Be further stated 
that he was under the belief that an observer will be appointed.- He also pointed 
out that on the date prior to the date of occurrence he had worked over-tune 

during the night, from 8-10 p.m. to 2 a.m. The record of over-time on the pre- 

vious day is not before me but the Payment of Wage Register which has been 
brought shows that he did work over-time for tour hours during the previous 
day The ordinary duty hours being from 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. There is thus a 
partial confirmation of the statement of the Chowkidar made in his letter to the 
management dated the 23rd September. 1964. If it be a fact that the Chowkidar 
had worked over-time during ihe previous night as was alleged by him to Shri 



[P,\*T II— 


341 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1963/AlSVINA 24, 1887 


Rahim Shah and also In his letter to ihe management, then it is not unnatural 
that he should have been dozing during working hours on the relevant date or 
should have even fallen asleep although it does not absolve him from responsi- 
bility under the standing orders. He is undoubtedly liable to be punished under 
clause 21(a), item xi of the standing orders for his having fallen asleep. But 
in the circumstances of the ease a punishment less severe than dismissal would 
have met the ends of justice. 

r>. During the hearing, the Tribunal suggested, in view of the facts of the ease, 
that a lenient view may he taken by the management. The management respond- 
ed to this and made an oiler that the workman be re-instated on tile wage last 
drawn by him with continuity of service but with no back wtiges for the Inter- 
vening period. This offer was accepted by the union's representative and I 
accordingly direct that the Chowkidar Shri Sumer Singh be re-appointed within 
stx weeks of the publication of the award in the Gazette with continuity of 
service on the wage last drawn by him but with no back wages for the inter- 
vening period. 


6. In the matter of Shri R. N. Bhatnagar’s dismissal the settlement which the 
parties have filed is as follows:— 

“I. The dismissal order passed against Shri R. N. Bhatnagar, Supervisor, 
will be witharawn and he will be treated as having resigned from 
service. 

2. The management has agreed to pay, as a gesture of goodwill, a consoli- 
dated amount of Rs. 1082-00 to Shri R. N. Bhafhagar. On receipt 
of this amount, Shri R. N. Bhatnagar will have no claim against the 
management whether by way of re-employment or otherwise. He 
will, however, get his Provident dues amounting to Rs. 2108 80 P. 

2. Shri R. N. Bhatnagar has requested that apart from the amount men- 
tioned in para No. 2, he may be paid some ex gratia amount for the 
period he remained unemployed between the date of the discharge 
and the date of the compromise. It. was agreed that this matter be 
left to the absolute discretion of Shri A. C. Dutta whose decision in 
the matter would be accepted as final by the parties. 

4. The matter as per para 3 above has been considered by Shri A. C. Dutta. 
He has approved of payment of Rs. 1880-00 as <?,r gratia payment for 
the period Shri Bhatnagar remained unemployed between the date of 
discharge and the date of the payment.” 


An award is passed accordingly. 

(Six pages). 

The 31st August, 1065. 

(Sd.) Anand Narain Kaul, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal. Delhi. 

[No. F.24/4/G5-LRI.1 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 30 th September 1065 

S.O. 3239. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that, an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the New Sinidih Colliery, P.O. 
Katrasgarh (Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified In 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(i) Whether the action of the management of New Sinidih Colliery of M/s. 
Bamandiha Coal Co. Ltd. (P.O. Katrasgarh Dhanbad) and_ their manag- 
ing Agents M/s. H. V. Low and Co. (Pt.) Ltd. Calcutta, in suspending 
Shri Tarapada Sarkar, Electrician with effect from the 17th June, 1965 



Sec. S(ii)] I HE (,\/l71TK Ol INDIA: OCI OBER 16, 1965/ASVINA 24. 1887 3417 


and terminating his services in the colliery with effect from the 1st 
July, 1985, was legal and justified? If not, to what relief is the work' 

man entitled? 

(11) Whether the action of the management of New Sinldih Colliery of M/s. 
Bamandiha Coal Co. Ltd. (P.O. Katrasgarh) and their managing 
Agents M/s. H. V. Low and Co. (Pt.) Ltd. Calcutta, in terminating 
the services of S/Shri Gopi Mohan Cbalter.iee, Register Keeper arid 
Guran Rawanl, Mining SardaT, with effect from the IBth July, 19G5 
and the 19th July, 1965 respectively, was justified? If not, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled? 

[No. 2/87/G5-LRIL] 

5.0. 3210, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
■dispute exists between the employers In relation to the East Sitalpur Colliery 
(P.O. l/khra, District Burdwan) and their workmen In respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

Whether the management of East Sitalpur Colliery were justified in dismiss- 
ing Shri Durjan Rajbhar from service with effect from the 1st April 
1965? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 6/101/ 65-LRII.] 

5.0. 3241. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in 1 elation to the Dhemo Main Collieries Ltd. 
(P.O. Sitarampur, Burdwan) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of M/s. Dhemo Main Collieries Ltd., was justified 
in transferring Shri Radheshyam Chhapuria, Store Keeper of Dhemo 
Main Colliery to the Calcutta Head Office of M/s. Dhemo Main Col- 
lieries Ltd. and West Jamurla Coal Company Ltd.? If not, to what 

relief 1 * the workman entitled? 

[No, 6/ 1 02 /65-LRII.] 

5.0. 3242, — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Ramnagar Colliery, P.O. 
.Pandaveshwar, District, Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal 
Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the suspension of Shri Biswanath Chamar, (C.P. Miner, Ramnagar 
Colliery) for the period from the 19th February, 1964 to 2nd March, 
1964 by the management of Ramnagar Colliery Is justified? If not, to 
what relief Is the workman entitled? 


[No. 6/95/64-LRIL] 



341 s THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, I965/A5VINA 24, 1887 [Part II- 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1985 

S.O. 3243. — Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the Associated Cement 
Cos. Ltd. Kotma Colliery, P.O. Kotma Colliery (hereinafter referred to as the said 
company) and their workmen represented by the Kotma Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, 
P.O. Kotma Colliery (hereinafter referred to as the Union); 

And, whereas the said Company and the Union have by a written agreement 
made in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 10A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1 9472, referred the said dispute to the arbitration of 
the person specified therein, and forwarded a copy of the said arbitration agree- 
ment to the Central Government; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of suh-section (3) of section 10 A 
of the Indus-trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 ol 1947'), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, winch was received by it on the 18th 
September, 1985. 

Agreement 

(Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Between 

Names or Parties ; 

Representing Employers. — Mr. G. L. Govil, Senior Personnel Officer, The Asso- 
ciated Cement Cos. Ltd., Kotma Colliery. P.O. Kotma Colliery. 

Representing Workmen. — Shri K. B. Chou yule, President, Kotma Colliery Maz- 
door Sangh, P.O. Kotma Colliery. 

Whereas an understanding was reached in July 1965 between the parties to refer 
the following industrial dispute under Section 10A of the I.D. Act to the arbitration 
of Mr. F. Jeejeebh oy. Retired President, Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, resid- 
ing at ‘Firuz-Ara’, Churchgute Reclamation, Bombay-1, 

And whereas on being orally requested by the parties in July 1905 Shri F. 
Jeejeebhoy indicated his willingness to act as an Arbitrator. 

Now' therefore It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following 
dispute under Section 10A of the I.D. Act to the arbitration of Mr. F. Jeejeebhoy. 

(i) Specific matters in dispute : 

Whether the dismissal ol Shri Abdul Rahman. Miner, from the Company’s 
service is justified? If not, to what relief, if any, the concerned w-ork- 
man Is entitled? 

The Company had filed application dated 17th August 1964 under Section 33(2) 
(b) of the I.D. Act before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, 
for approval of the dismissal of Shri Abdul Rahman. The parties, however, by 
their joint application dated 18th August 1985 to the said Tribunal sought its per- 
mission to withdraw the said application in view of the parties having agreed to 
refer the matter as a substantive dispute to the arbitration of Mr. F, Jeejeebhoy 
under Section 10A of the I.D. Act. The said Tribunal by its order dated 17th 
August 1965 has granted the prayer of the parties in terms of the said application. 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name arid address of the 
establishment or undertaking invoiced: 

(a) The Associated Cement Companies Limited, Kotma Colliery, P.O. Kotma 
Colliery. 

(hi The Workmen of the Kotma Colliery as represented by the Kotma 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. P.O. Kotma Colliery. 

(ill) Name of the Union representing workmen in question: 

The Kotma Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, P.O. Kotma Colliery. 

(lv) Total number of workmen employed in the Undertaking affected: 

About 1800. 

We further agree that the decision of the said Arbitrator shall be binding on us, 
Dateu at Bombay, this the 13th day of August 1965. 

Witnesses: Signature of Parties: 

1. Sd/- (Representing Employer) Sd/- G. L. Govn., 

2. Sd/- (Representing Workmen) Sd/- K. B. Chougule, 

I consent as previously indicated to act as Arbitrator. 

Sd./- F. Jeejeebhoy, 
[No. 8/80/65-LE). II. J 



Sec. - 8 (H)] , ' 1 HF, GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 1G, 1963/ASVINA 24, 18R7 3^9 


Neu ' Delhi, the 7th October 1965 

S.O. 8244. — 'Whereas the Centra] Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the Ardhogram Khas Colliery 
(P.O. Ardhogram, District Bankura; and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(lj of section 10 of the industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19479, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal 
Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(11 Whether the action of the management of Ardhogram Khas Colliery in 
retrenching all or any of the seven female loaders mentioned below on and from 
the 1st November, 1964, is legal and justified? 

1. Shrimati Robi Baurin 

2. Shrimati Susari Baurin 

3. Shrimati Bali Moehian 

4. Shrimati Joshi Majhian 

5. Shrimati Pati Baurin 

6. Shrimati Sundra Baurin 

7. Shrimati Labi Baurin 

(2) If not, to what relief are the loaders or any of them entitled? 

I No. 0/20/65-LHII.] 


S.O. 3245. — Whereas the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Bikaner Gypsums Limited and their workmen represented by Gypsum Mine 
Workers Union, have jointly applied to the Central Government under sub-section 
(2) of section 1(1 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19471, for reference to 
a Tribunal of an industrial dispute that exists between them in respect of the 
matter set forth in the said application and reproduced in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government is satisfied that the said Gypsum Mine 
Workers Union represents the majority of the said workmen; 


NOW. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and sub-sec- 
tion (2) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri Jawan Singh 
Ranawat shall be the Presiding' Officer, with headquarters at Jaipur and refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the demand of increased rate of transport, charges for village 
piece workers consequent upon the increased lead resulting from the 
shifting of the Jamsar Railway siding is justified? 

(2 1 If so, to what relief are they entitled to effective the 8th April, 1965 
with adjustments as necessary. 

[No. F. 35/8/65-LRI.j 


New Delhi, the 8th October 1965 

S.O. 3246. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to Messrs A. C. Rov and Company 
(Private) Limited. Calcutta and/or Shri Ashu Sardar. Contractor, (98, Garden 
Reach Road, Calcutia-23) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
lispute for adjudication. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power's conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
jection (I) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1347 (14 of 1P47), the 
Central Government hereby refers the Said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 



[Part II— 


3420 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: OCTOBER 16, 1965/ASVIN‘A 24, 1887 


Schedule 

(11 Whether Messrs A. C, Roy and Company (Private) Limited, or Shri, 
Ashoo Sardar are/is responsible for the employment in respect of 
Gear handling workers engaged in the business of Messrs A. C. Roy 
and Company (Private) Limited, Calcutta? 

(2) Whether the demands of the workmen in respect of leave with pay, 
festival holidays with pay, medical benefits and retirement benefits 
are justified and if so from whom? 

[No. 28/21/65/LRIV.l 


New Delhi, the 11th October 1965 

S.O. 3247, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Last Kumardhubi Colliery 
(P.O. Cliirkundu. District Dhanbad) and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of Shri Rajendra Jha, Attendance Clerk of East. 
Kumardhubi Colliery of M/s. Shree Lakshmi Narain Trust (Post Box 
No. 45, P.O. Jharia, Dhanbad) with effect from the 23rd November, 
1964 was justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? - 

[No. 2/73/65-LR.II.] 


S.O. 3248. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the M/s. Kumardhubi Colliery 
of M/s. K. Worali and Company Private Limited P.O. Chirkunda, District Dhanbad 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus-, 
trial Tribunal Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the stoppage from work of Sarvashri Janki Bhuia, Jamuna Bhuia 
and Devsaran Thakur, Trammers, with effect from the 30th October, 
1964 and of Jagarnath Bhuia, Trammer, with effect from 28th October, 
1964 and their subsequent dismissal from service with effect from the 
23rd November, 1964 bv the management of M/s. East Kumardhubi 
Cohiery of M/s, K. Worah and Company Private Limited, P.O. Chir- 
kunda, District. Dhanbad was an act of victimisation? If so, to what 
relief are these workmen entitled? 


rNo. 2/5B/65/LRII.] 
H, C. MANGHANI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 30th September 1965 

S.O, 3249. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 1 of section 5 
of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
G. S. Dhaliwal and Lieutenant B, N. Singh as Inspector of Mines subordinate to 



Sec. S (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 16, 1966/ASVINA 24, IBS'? 3421 


the Chief Inspector of Mines and makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
S.O, No, 531 dated the 2nd March, 1-961, namely: — 

In the said notification, the following entries shall be added at the end, namely: — 
“(83) Shri G. S. Dhaliwal 
(84) Lieutenant B, N. Singh”. 

[No. a/wm-M-i.} 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, D ELHI, 1965 




