



2532 THE GAZETTE OK TND1A : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 'AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part JJ 


the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), by Shri Nazmul Hague, Town, P.O. and Dis- 
trict Goalpara, Assam; 


- 

^*on; 


And W here as the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission 
rovisions of section 36 of the said Act, for the trial of thi 
as, in pursuance of the provisions contained in section 103 c 
of its order in the said election petition to the Commis 

lursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the saicf 
fission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal 

fE THE MEMBER, ELECTION TRIBUNAL; 

GAUHATI (ASSAM) 


Now, the 


ct 

re^| 

JZq r 


Act. the Elcction>^ 

«C 

CoBAM-'-IT 


Shri Ram Labhaya, Member, Election Tribunal. Gauhati. 

Shri Nazmul Haque ... ... Petitioner 

versus 

Shri Amjad Ali ... ... Respondent 

Shri Jahanuddin Ahmed 

Shri Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar ... ... Opposite parties 

under section 99. 

Counsel for t)ie petitioner - — Shri S. M, Lahiri instructed by Shri A. Sarkar 
Counsel for the respondent and Opposite parties ■ — Shri N. C. Chatterjec and 

Shri R. K. Bose- 


JUDGMENT 

The petitioner in this case has challenged the election of Shri Amjad Ali, oppo- 
site party, who was elected to the House of the People from H.P. 38-Dlmbri 
Parliamentary Constituency. He has prayed (a) that the election of Amjad Ali 
be declared void: (b) that he be declared duly elected to the House of the People 
from the aforesaid Constituency; and (c) that the names of certain persons guilty 
•f corrupt practices be recorded. 

2. His case, as set forth in the petition, is as follows: — 

(a) That he is a citizen of India and is an elector to the House of the 
People from the Goalpara Parliamentary Constituency. He was qualified to seek 
election to the House of the People. The H.P. 38-Dhubri Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency was to elect a member to the House of the People. The polling was to' 
take place on 25-2-57, 2-3-57 and 6-3-57, 

(b) The Congress party selected the petitioner as their candidate. The 

Opposite party was selected by the Praja Socialist Party. Both were- 
nominated after scrutiny of their nomination papers. The election 
symbol of the petitioner was 'two Bullocks witli yoke on'. Tile Res- 
pondent was allotted 'hut’ as his symbol. 

(c) After the polling, votes' were counted on 10th March 1957 and 11th 

March 1957. The petitioner polling 73,410 votes. The Respondent 
polled 1,01,303 votes and was declared elected on 11th March 1957 
under section 6G pf the Representation of the People Act. 

(d) The Constituency in question consisted of 10 Assembly Constituencies 

Six of these were within the District of Goalpara. The rest (four) 
were within the Garo Hills Autonomous District.. In four, out of the- 
six Assembly Constituencies of Goalpara District, namely; L.A. South 
Salmara, L.A. Gauripur, L.A. Mankachar, and L.A. Dhubri, the 
majority of voters were Muslims. In the remaining two constituen- 
cies of the District, there was a considerable proportion of Muslim 
voters. These voters were illiterate, simple and susceptible to false 
religious propaganda. The Respondent belonging to the minority 
community was responsible for carrying on mischievous propaganda 
on religious and communal lines personally, through his supporters, 
and the Assembly candidates of the Praja Socialist Party and also’ 
through independent candidates, and this led a vast majority of the 
electors of the minority community to vote for the Respondent whes 



Sf.c. i (iij] 1I1E GA/F. I I E OI' INDIA : NOVEMBER 29. 1958/ AGRAHAY ANA 8 , 1830 2533 


would have voted for the petitioner, but for the objectionable pro- 
paganda carried on by the Respondent. They all carried on propa- 
ganda systematically through public meetings, group meetings and 
by individual contacts. The persons who carried on propaganda oh 
the line ; stated above, are said to be Jahanuddin Ahmed, Sahadat 
Ali. Seikh Md Azad Ali. Abu I Fazal, Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar, Santi 
Rov, Hussain Ali Pradham, Capt. Williamson Sangma and others 

3. The campaign against the petitioner was alleged to be mainly on the 
following lines: — 

(a) Banning of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter by the Congress Govern- 

ment. 

(b) Stoppage of burial of Muslim dead bodies and their compulsory burn- 

ing instead. 

(c) Compulsory singing of ‘Ramdhun’ by Muslim teachers and students. 

(d) Worship of Tulsi plant in the South Salmara Basic Training Institute. 

(e) Banning of Azan. 

(f) Shifting of 'Jumma' prayer from Friday to Sunday. 

4. In paragraph 10, particulars are given with reference to dates ana places 
of the propaganda carried on in public meetings and group meetings. No less 
than 29 specific instances have been alleged, and the particulars of the utterances 
made at the meetings hav been stated. The character of the propaganda carried 
on generally a-t such meetings is the same as indicated above. 

5. It is averred that as a result of the propaganda carried on, as indicated 
above, anti-Congress feeling was aroused amongst the Muslims and a large num- 
ber of voters, who were inclined to vote for the petitioner, changed their minds 
in favour of the Respondent. This wa s due to the exploitation of their religious 
sentiments and susceptibilities. The respondent succeeded in creating an appre- 
hension in their minds that their religious rights and freedom were not safe in 
the hands of the Congress Government and the Congress Organisation. The 
petitioner and the Congress Organisation tried to convince the voters of the false 
and illegal nature of the propaganda carried on by the Respondent and his sup- 
porters, but illiterate and simple-minded voters were carried away by the slogan 
that their religion was in danger. 

6. In regard to the Garo Hills Constituency, the Respondent had the support 
of the Garo National Council candidates and particularly of Shri Williamson 
Sangma and Shamser Ali. The Respondent and the two supporters from Garo 
Hills exhorted the workers to refrain from voting for any of the Congress candi- 
dates, either for the Assembly or for the Parliamentary Constituency, An instance 
of the nature of the propaganda carried on in Garo Hills is given in paiagraph 
15 of the petition. It is alleged that there was a meeting on 11th February 1957 
at Bhaidbari Inspection Bunglow where it was preached that the Congress was 
trying to Hinduise Muslims and had banned cow 7 slaughter. Shri Williamson 
Sangma addressed the meeting and stated that Muslims were saved by the Garos 
in 1950 communal disturbances and, therefore, Muslims should vote for him and 
for Amjad Ali in the Parliamentary Constituency. Afazuddin Maudal, a supporter 
of Amjad Ali, who presided at the meeting, told the audience that the Congress 
Government had stopped cow slaughter which was Incumbent on Muslims as a 
part of their religious duty, and that it. wus going to legislate for compulsory 
cremation of Muslim dead bodies. In the Assembly constituencies of the Garo 
Hills District, Laskars carried on propaganda for the Respondent. The Laskars 
have powers of general administration (Police, Criminal and Civil Justice) and 
they come within the definition of officers mentioned in clause (7) of Section 123 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The employment of Laskars con- 
stituted a corrupt practice, 

7. The petitioner alleges thet but for the votes obtained by the Respondent by 
corrupt practices, the petitioner would have secured the majority of votes and 
would have been elected. 

8. Saiyed Ali, an independent candidate from L.A. Golokganj Constituency, 
issued an appeal on 5th March 1957. It was addressed to Muslim voters. lie 
represented (hat he was the only MusMm candidate for the L.A. Golokganj Consti- 
tuency, and this ivas a direction from ‘Khoda’. He also represented that the 
Congress Government had banned cow-sacrifice. This also helped the Respondent 
In the election. 



2534 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER, 29, 1958/AORAHAYANA «, 18*0 [Part If 


9. It is further alleged that corrupt practices were committed by 9 persons 
named above.' 

10. Except for the statements made in the first seven paragraphs of the petition 
and the first part of paragraph 8, the written statement embodies a bald and a 
categorical repudiation of the allegations made by the petitioner in his petition. 
The statement that voters in the Goalpara District were illiterate, simple and 
susceptible to false religious propaganda, etc., is denied. The allegations about 
the nature of the propaganda alleged to have been carried on by the Respondent 
are also denied, and it is asserted that the allegation that he and his supporters, 
whose names are mentioned in paragraph 9, carried on communal propaganda^ 
was totally false, though it is admitted that these tl persons were supporting him. 
The allegations made about propaganda in meetings on different dates given in 
paragraph 10 of the petition, are all denied. It is not admitted that the Res- 
pondent was supported by the Garo National Council and Shri Williamson Sangma, 
or that he had any sectional support either from the Garo National Council or 
Shamser Ali. The statements made in paragraph 14 are repudiated. It is denied 
that Affajuddin Mandal was the supporter of the Respondent. In regard to the 
allegations about the proceedings of the meeting, the respondent disclaims 
knowledge. It is denied that the Laskars in Garo Hills come within the purview 
of section 123(7) of the Representation of the People Act. The Respondent also 
did not admit that the Laskars carried on any campaign on his behalf 

11. The claim that the petitioner would have succeeded if the propaganda 
attributed to the Respondent had not been carried on, is stoutly denied Tire 
statements made in paragraph 18 about propaganda in the Golokga'nj constituency 
are also denied. 

12. The Respondent alleges that he was a nominee of the Praia Socialist Party 
and carried on election propaganda, held meetings at different places on different 
dates, but not in the way and on the dates and places as mentioned in the petition. 
In his meetings, the Respondent tried to impress upon his audiences the programme 
and the goal of the Praja Socialist Party. No propaganda on communal lines was 
carried on, nor was any effort made to excite communal feeling. 

13. The following issues were framed with the consent of the parties. 

(1) Whether the respondent and his supporters and workers carried on 

propaganda on religious and communal lines, as alleged, amounting 
to corrupt practices, within the meaning of Section 123(3) of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951? 

(2) Whether corrupt practices alleged in the petition were committed by 

any person in the interest of the respondent, and, if so, whether the 
result of the election has been materially affected thereby? 

(3) Whether the election of the respondent to the House of the People from 

H.P. 38 — Bhubri Parliamentary Constituency is void, for the alleged 
corrupt practices committed by him or by any person, as alleged? 

( 4 ) Whether the respondent, through Shri Williamson Sangma, obtained the 

services of the Laskars in the Garo Hills for furtherance of his 
election prospects and, if so, whether the obtaining of such assistance 
is corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123(7) of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951? 

(5) Whether corrupt practices were also committed by Jahanuddin Ahmec?, 

Sahadat All, Seikh Md. Azad Ali, Abul Fazal, Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar, 
Santi Roy, Hussain Ali Pradhani, Williamson Sangma, Shamser Ali, 
Afazuddin Mandal and Saiyed Ali and, if so, whether they should be 
so named as being guilty of corrupt practices, as alleged? 

(6) To what relief, if any, are the parties entitled? 

14. The petitioner opened his case, He deposed to the correctness of allegations 
made in the petition. He himself did not attend any meeting. His knowledge was 
derived from reports he received about the nature of the propaganda carried on by 
Amjad Ali and others. The reports he received were oral. ITis reports to Shri S. C. 
Sinha and others were also oral. His case thus depends on the strength and the 
value of the evidence led by him is support of his own statement. He has 
relied on some documents as well. These shall be considered under appropriate 
Heads. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, I93B/AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1 S«0 2535 


15. Specific instances in which corrupt practices are alleged to have been 
committed are given in paragraph 10 of the petition. The first instances is of a 
public meeting held at Fakiraganj M. V. School held on 16th January. 1957. 
This meeting was convened by Jahanuddin Ahmed, Praja Socialist candidate in 
L.A. 40 Bilashipara constituency, and other workers of the same constituency. 
The meeting was addressed by Amjad Ali, Respondent, Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar. It is asserted that they appealed to the voters to refrain 
from voting for the Congress candidates and to vote for the Praia Socialist party 
candidates on religious and communal grounds. Jahanuddin Ahmed referred to 
the rioting of February, 1956 at a place called Marishbari within the limits of 
Lakhipur Police Station and stated that some houses belonging to persons of the 
Muslim community were burnt down by persons of other communities belonging 
to the Congress party. He further said that such acts of oppression were 
committed at the instigation of the Congress party. Amjad Ali went to the 
rescue of the riot victims. Jahanuddin Ahmed, who was said to have produced a 
copy of the Holy Koran, had a certain portion of an Arabic text read out by 
Maulana Ahmed Ali, and explaining it told the audience that it enjoined cow 
sacrifice on Muslims — an obligation which they could not discharge as the 
Congress Government of Assam had banned suen sacrifice and thereby interfered 
with the religious rights of the Muslims. Ahmed Ali protested against this 
interpretation, but he was not allowed to amplify his point. Amjad Ah also is 
said to have spoken on the subject of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter supporting 
Jahanuddin Ahmed. He added that a member of the Parliament belonging to the 
Congress party wanted to introduce a bill stopping burial of Muslim dead 
bodies, and it was at his intervention that the bill had been kept In abeyance, 
Amjad All also referred to Ramdhun Geet stating that singing by Muslim 
teachers and pupils of this Gee l had been made compulsory in educational 
institutions by the Congress Government. He characterised it as a Hindu Geet 
with Hindu religious ideas. The words “Johi Allah Sho hi Ram” were 
explained by him as sacrilegious as Allah was sought to be brought to the level 
of Ram, which injured the religious feelings of the Muslims. Bibhuti Bhusan 
Sarkar also in his speech denounced the Congress party for interfering with 
religious rights of the Muslims and said that though he was, a Hindu, he felt 
that a great wrong' had been done by stopping cow slaughter and sacrifice by 
legislation. 

16. The petitioner has examined three witnesses about this meeing. They are 
P.Ws. 12 Makhan Lai Biswas, 13 Abdul Samad Choudhury and 61 P. K. 
Chakravarty. The Respondent has examined two witnesses, They are R. 5 
Asaruddin and R. 6 Alimuddin Mullah. 

17. Makhanlal Biswas F.W. 12 is a goldsmith. He deposed that when he 
arrived, Amjad Ali was addressing the meeting. Amjad Ali told the audience 
that the Cattle Preservation Act had been passed and cattle under the age of 
14 could not be slaughtered. Besides permission of the Veterinary Surgeon was 
necessary for slaughter. He heard Bibhuti Sarkar preaching on Saturdays and 
Tuesdays after t.hc Hat meetings that the Congress regime had banned cow 
sacrifice. Ho also to'd the people that recitation of Ramdhun Geet was against 
Islamic religion. This witness has not stated anything about Jahanuddin Ahmed’s 
speech. His version of Amjad Ali’s speech is somewhat different from 
petitioner’s. He has also said nothing about Bibhuti Sarkar’s speech in the 
meeting. 

18. P.W. 13 is Abdul Samad Choudhury. He heard Jahanuddin Ahmed 
addressing the meeting. Jahanuddin Ahmed recited from the Holy Koran and 
explained that cow sacrifice was enjoined there, and added that the Congress 
Government had prohibited it. He offered the Koran to any one who wished 
to make sure if he was right. A Maulavi from the audience got up and inter- 
preted verses read in a different way. Jahanuddin Ahmed intervened and 
supported the interpretation, he himclf had placed. The witness further deposed 
that Jahanuddin Ahmed referred to the Morishbari incident and said that 
Muslim houses were burnt down by the Congress Government. About Amjad 
Ali’s speech the witness deposed that he preached that the Cattle Preservation 
Act had prohibited sacrifice of cows below 14 years of age. Permission had also 
to be obtained for such sacrifice. This could he asked for by a stamped applica- 
tion, and this amounted virtually to prohibition of cow sacrifice. According to 
this witness, Amjad Ali also referred to the Ramdhun Geet which he had heard 
being sung at South Salmara. This he characterised as un-Islamic. 

19. The statement in regard to Jahanuddin Ahmed’s speech is not identical 
with the allegations made in the petition. The version is different; but it does 
bring out that Jahanuddin and Amigd Ali referred to the Cattle Preservation 
Act, and though in different ways, they impressed on the audience that its effect 



2536 THK GAZETTE UF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2‘t 195 B/AGRAHAYA\A 8, 1880 [I'mit II 


was to prohibit cow sacrifice and slaughter, and thi i constituted interference 
with religion. The reference to Ramdhun Geet also lends support to the allega- 
tions made in the petition. 

20. This witness stated when first examined on 2flth that he was a member 
of the Congress. On further cross-examination on 5th July, he admitted that 
in Bazlul Basit’s petition he had deposed that he was not a congress member. 
His explanation of the two contradictory statements is absurd, In that state- 
ment he did not state anything about Fakiraganj meeting. It has been pointed 
out by Mr. Bose that Ahmed Ali referred to by the witness in his statement has 
not been examined. 

21. P. K. Chakravarty (witness No. 611 is Ihe third witness. He stated that 

he attended one meeting at Fakiraganj and heard Bibhuti Sarkar and Sahadat 
Ali addressing that meeting. According to him, the meeting at Fakidaganj 

was held in February, probably on 22nd or 23rd. He further deposed that he 

had heard of a report that there was a Praja Socialist Party meeting at 
Fakiraganj sometime in January in the M. V. School. The witness was 
admittedly not present in that meeting of 1.6th January, and, therefore, has made 
no statement about it, The meeting alleged to have been held at Fakiraganj 
in February was not specifically mentioned in the petition. I have not relied 
on his evidence about this meeting. 

22. R.W. 5 is Asaruddin Ahmed Pandit. He stated that he was a teacher 

and secretary of the Co-operative Society at Fakiragnj. The witness gave a 
gist of the speeches of Jahanu.ddin Ahmed, Amjad Ali and Bibhuti Sarkar. 
According to him, they spoke of matters which had nothing to do with religion 
or religious beliefs of any community or about interference with them bv the 
Government or the Congress Party. He admitted that his society could ao no 

work for want of funds and also stated that they had come into contact with 

the Praja Socialist party at elections. Alimuddin Molla (R.W, 6) supported 
this witness. He claims not only membership of the Co-operative society, but 
also of the Congress, On this point his statement does not seems probable. 

23. The allegations made in paragraph 10(21 have not been proved. No 
witness was examined by the petitioner to prove that Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin 
Ahmad and Bibhuti Sarkar were responsible for the utterances attributed to them. 
All that the learned counsel for the petitioner could say was that Amjad Ali 
admitted in his statement in Court that a meeting had been held at Barkakali 
but that, by itself, does not advance the petitioner’s case any further. 

24. The third meeting was said to have been held at Jaleswar on 20th January, 
1957. The allegations made about this meeting briefly are as follows: — 

(1) The meeting was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, 
Bibhuti Sarkar, Sahadat Ali, Abdur Rahman, and Maulavi Abul 
Hussain. 

25. Amjad Ali spoke about the banning of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter. 
He also referred to H’amdhun Geet which, he said, was un-Islamic, and the 
compulsion about its recitation. He also talked abouL a bill which aimed at 
preventing burial of dead bodies of Muslims, and impressed on the voters that, 
to safeguard their religion, they should vote for P.S.P. candidates. 

26. Jahanuddin Ahmed exhibited a burnt copy of the Holy Koran and said 
that it had been burnt by Congress at Marishbari when Muslim houses were 
burnt there. He also spoke of other matters referred to by Amjad Ali. Sahadat 
Ali also spoke about all these matters and observed that there acts had 
violated religious rights of the Muslims. Bibhuti Sarkar condemned the banning 
of cow sacrifice, referred to the attempted banning of burial of Muslim dead 
bodies and asserted that Muslim teachers who were undergoing training in the 
Basic School at South Salmara were being forced to worship Tulsi plant, 

27. Five witnesses were examined by the petitioner and two by Amjad Ali 
in regard to this meeting. P.W. 4 Abul Hussain Mandat has made a long 
statement about what happened at this meeting According to him, Bibhuti 
Sarkar told the audience that the congress passed laws which encroached on 
Muslim rights He particularly referred to the Cattle Preservation Act which 
restricted beef eating by Muslims. He also stated that the Congress Govern- 
ment had directed singing of Ramdhun Geet and was thus making Muslim 
students irreligious, He referred to the bill aiming at restraining Muslims 
from burying their dead, though the attempt proved abortive. Sahadat Ali also 
addressed the gathering. He supported the previous speakers. Jahanuddin 
Ahmed also referred to restrictions on the ^laughter of cows by the Muslims, 



Sic. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1 958/ AG R AIIA YANA 8 , 1880 2537 


and the introduction of the recitation of Ramdhun Geet In Schools, which 
interfered with the religious beliefs of Muslims. The Marishbari incident was 
referred to -by him, and also the burning of the Holy Koran by Hindus. Amjad 
Ali talked of his achievements in ihe Parliament and claimed that he had taken 
up the matter of Ramdhun Geet with the Government. He also talked of the 
bill aiming at prohibition of the burial of dead bodies by Muslims. He made 
comments on the Cattle Preservation Act, hinting that it restricted their existing 
rights ip the matter, and also suggested that expenditure in money may be 
necessary to procure permission for slaughter of cows. This witness is admitted- 
ly an active Congress worker. 

28. Md. Siddeque Hussain is P.W. 5. He said that Sahadat Ali addressed the 
audience first. He told them that the Congress Government had ordered that 
Muslim students should sing Ramdhun Geet. He further stated that a bill with 
the object of preventing Muslims from burying their dead bodies was introduced 
in Parliament, but it coufd not be carried through. He further stated that 
Bibhuti Barkar told the audience that though he was a Hindu, he agreed with 
Sahadat Ali that the measures to which he had referred, were against Muslim 
interests. The witness left after hearing these two speeches. Hs is a student. 
He did not hear Jahanuddin Ahmed’s speech. 

29. Hazi Raisuddin Ahmed is P.W. 14. He said that Bibhuti Sarkar, when 
addressing the meeting, said that cow slaughter had been prohibited in plain 
Districts only. Muslim boys were being forced to recite Ramdhun Geet. It 
was likely that Jiimma prayers may have to be said on Sundays instead of on 
Fridays. ' He also referred to the attempt at legislation prohibiting the burial 
of dead bodies by Muslims and put it to the audience whether they would vote 
for the Congress which was responsible for such inroads into their religious 
beliefs and practices. Sahadat Ah supported Bibhuti Sarkar, 

30. Jahanuddin Ahmed the next speaker, referred to the Marishbari incident 
and showed a partially burnt Koran. He threw responsibility for what had 
happened in Marishbari on Congressmen. Amjad Ali, whilst recounting his 
achievements, told the audience about the bill to stop burial of Muslim dead 
bodies and claimed that the bill had been thrown out as a result of the 
opposition by him. He also repeated other incidents discussed by previous 
speakers, particularly about the prohibition of cow slaughter, and Ihe likelihood 
of Jumnia prayers being shifted to Sundays Compulsion about the singing of 
Ramdhun Geet also was commented on This witness admitted that he had 
been a congress worker for ten or twelve years. 

31. P.W. 15 is Lai Mia. He has also deposed about the Jaleswar meeting. 
According to him, the speeches followed a set pattern. The speakers appealed 
to the audience for voting for P.S.P. candidates telling them that if they voted 
the Congress back to power, they would legislate for prohibition of cow 
slaughter and burning of dead bodies of Muslims. They would also shift Jumma 
prayers to Sundays. They were already compelling Muslim students to sing 
Ramdhun Geet. This, according to the witness, was the trend of the speeches, 
though different speakers elaborated these points in their own way. The 
witness Stated, in particular, that the respondent referred to the attempted 
prohibition of cow slaughter by the Parliament which he, by his efforts, had 
succeeded in prevening. This witness also is admittedly an active member of 
the Congress. ITc gould not sav how many persons addressed the Congres 
meeting, nor could he reproduce their speeches except one or two matters 
referred to by Shri Fakharrudin Ali Ahmed. 

32. P.W. 16 is Abul Kasem. This witness supported the previous witnesses 
and deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar referred to the prohibition of cow slaughter, 
compulsion about the recitation of Ramdhun Geet, and the prohibition of burial 
of the dead by Muslims. He told the audience that they will have moie 
measures of this kind if they voted for the Congress-, There was interference 
with their religious beliefs which he even, as a Hindu, could not lolcrate. 
Sahadat Ali, according to him, supported the previous speakers. Jahanuddin 
Ahmed spoke in the same strain as in meetings referred to above, according 
to thin witness. The respondent said that the burial of dead bodies cf Muslims 
had been stopped, and this would continue unless the P.S.P. candidates were 
supported. 

33. Dulal Chandra Haidar (W. No. 28), and Ajmat Ali (W. No. 29) are 
witnesses of the Respondent about the Jaleswar meeting. They said that Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, Bibhuti Sarkar and Sahadat Ali addressed the meeting. 
A Maulavi asked if there was any law prohibiting cow killing, Amjad Ali told 



2538 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [Part IE 


him that during 4 or 5 days of the Id festival, cows could be slaughtered with 
permission if they were more than 14 years of age. According to him, no appeal 
was made to voters on communal or religious grounds. 

34. Ajmat Ali claimed that he had been president of the Bashamara 
Congress Committee for the three previous years. The witness admitted that 
he had been arrested by the Police once, and the matter had been compromised. 
He denied that he was a P.S.P. worker, 

35. The next meeting is said to have been held on 23rd January, 1957 at 

South Salmara Bazar in L.A. 32 South Salmara constituency. This meeting is 
said to have been addressed by Jahanuddin Ahmed, Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar 
and Abdul Karim Manda. Amjad Ali condemned anti-Islamic activities of the 
Congress Government and Congress party. These were prohibition of cow 

slaughter, attempts to stop burial of Muslim dead bodies, and compulsion about, 
singing of Ramdhun Geet. The appeal to voters was on grounds of religion. 
Bibhuti Sarkar also talked in the same strain and particularly mentioned about 
worship of ‘Tulsi’ plant which was being forced on Muslim teachers in the 

Basic Training Institute at South Salmara. He raised the cry of Islam in 
danger under the Congress Government. Abdul Karim said that the Congress 
Government had wounded the religious feelings and sentiments of Muslims by 
compelling them to sing Ramdhun Geet. Jahanuddin Ahmed also referred to 
the ban placed on cow slaughter and sacrifice by the Congress Government, 
which involved interference with Koranic injunctions. He referred to a text 
from the Holy Koran showing that it enjoined such sacrifice. He also exhibited 
a burnt copy of the Holy Koran as before. 

36. Duli Chand Agarwal (P.W. 9), Gandu Mandal (P.W. 10), and Polen 

Dewani (P.W. 11) are three witnesses of the petitioner who have deposed about 
this meeting. P.W. 9 is a primary member of the Congress. He deposed that 

Jahanuddin Ahmed said that cow slaughter had been prohibited by law. He 

tried to have the law repealed, but had not succeeded. Bibhuti Sarkar, 
according to this witness, also said that cow slaughter had been prohibited and 
that this interfered with the rights of the Muslims. He also spoke about the' 
unsuccessful attempt to prevent burial of the dead by Muslims. He also told 
the Muslims that they will have to worship ‘Tulsi’ plant in their houses if the 
Congress were voted to power. According to him, Abdul Karim said that 
students in the South Salmaru Training School were being made to sing 
Ramdhun Geet, and, in this Geet, Allah had been placed on a level with Rama, 
which was anti-Islamic. 

37. Gendu Mandal said, amongst other things, that Bibhuti Sarkar referred to 
the Marishbari incident also in his speech stating that Congressmen had burnt 
the houses of the Muslims and had driven them away. In regard to Abdul 
Karim, the witness supported the previous statements, This witness admitted 
that some three years before he hud paid four annas as subscription for member- 
ship of the Congress, 

38. The attendance of this witness for further cross-examination was not 
possible to secure without delay which in the circumstances of the case did not 
seem justified. With the consent of the parties the testimony of the witness has 
been excluded from consideration against Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Sarkar. 

39. Polen Dewani deposed that Amjad Ali stated that cow slaughter had 
been practically stopped. Children of Muslims were being made to sing ‘Ram 
Krishna’. Abdul Karim also said the same. Amjad Ali said that he had taken 
up the matter with the authorities at Delhi. Bibhuti Sarkar told the audience 
that before they voted for the Congress, they should have ‘Tulsi’ plant with 
them, as they shall have to worship it. In addition to the ban on cow slaughter, 
he said that .Jumma Prayers will have to be offered on Sundays instead of on 
Fridays, and Azan also will be prohibited. This witness did not hear Jahanuddin 
Ahmed’s speech. Amjad Ali produced two witnesses who deposed about this 
meeting. They are Asmatulla Bepari (R.W. No. 14) and Khoda Baksh (R.W, 
No, 15). 

40. Asamatulla Bepari deposed that Abdul Karim asked if it was true that 
cow slaughter had been banned. Amjad Ali told him that there was no restric- 
tion on cow slaughter on Id days; but. on other days, cattle above 14 years of 
age could be slaughtered with permission, and this law had not interfered with 
Muslim religion. Khoda Baksh supported him. He stated in cross-examination 
that his brother, Abdul Karim, had agitated against the singing of Ramdhun- 
-Geet and he had approached Amjad Ali for assistance. He had also signed a- 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 29, 1 958/ ACRAHA YANA 8, 1880 253^' 


representation sent to him. H.e also stated that he was a member of the* 
Congress party and was petitioner’s polling agent. He had requested Amjacfc 
All to explain the significance of the Cattle Preservation Act. 

41. In para. 10(5), it is alleged that a meeting was held at Chunnari on 21st 
January, 1957 in 32 South Salmara constituency. It was addressed by Amjad Ali, . 
Jahanuddin Ahmed, Sahadat Ali and Bibhuti Sarkar. 

42. All four are alleged to have appealed to voters to vote against the 

congress and vote for the P.S.P. Their speeches followed the set pattern. They 
were impressing on the audience that Congress, by banning cow slaughter and 
sacrifice, by banning or attempting to ban burial of the dead by Muslims and 
forcing ‘Ramdhun Geet’ on Muslim teachers and students, was trying to Hindmse- 
the Muslims. Amjad Ali at this meeting laid emphasis on the fact that the ■ 

Cattle Preservation Act had not been applied to Hills where beef-eating wag 

common, and its application was restricted to plains Districts only in order 
deliberately to encroach upon the religious freedom of the Muslims. Jahanuddin 
Ahmed, as usual, referred to the burning of Koran read from it and urged that 
cow sacrifice was enjoined. Maulavi Danish Ah protested, but he was not 
allowed to speak. Sahadat Ali said nothing distinctive though he supported the 
appeal, 

43. Shamsul Haque (P.W. 17) was the 1st witness of the incident. He has 

supported the allegations in this petition in a general way, though in the case 

of Bibhuti Sarkar, he said that he referred to the Marishbari incident, which 
does not appear to have been attributed to him in the petition. To Amjad Ali, 
he attributed the statement that the bill to stop burial of the dead had been 
postponed as a result of his efforts. This is more than what he is alleged to have 
said in the petition. The witness is admittedly an active member of the Congress. 

44. Abdul Bari, P.W. 18, deposed that he was present in the Chunnari meet- 
ing. According to the witness, Amjad Ali said that he had succeeded in getting 
the bill aiming at stoppage of burial of the dead thrown out by the Parliament. 
He exhorted the voters to vote for the P.S.P. candidate to protect their own reli- 
gion. Jahanuddin Ahmed urged that cow sacrifice had been prohibited by the 
Congress Government, and, therefore, Islam was in danger if the Congress 
remained in power. This witness is a four-anna member of the Congress. He 
did not depose about Bibhuti Sarkar, but R.W. 25 admitted that Bibhuti Sarkar 
discussed the Cattle Preservation Act. 

45. Amjad Ali has produced two witnesses of the meeting, namely; Dr. Gopal 
Chandra Saha, R.W. 25, and Birendra Nath Chakravarty— R.W. 26' Both sup- 
ported Amjad Ali's version of the case. Dr. G. C. Saha admitted that Cattle 
Preservation Act was discussed at the meeting. Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar and 
Jahanuddin Ahmed discussed it. The argument that Bibhuti Sarkar could not 
attend this meeting is completely answered by this statement. The witness 
claimed to be a member of the. Primary Committee for three years and a register- 
ed medical practitioner. He admitted that the Mandal Committee had been 
formed and he was not a member of the Mandal Committee. He. also admitted 
he was not a registered medical practitioner. He attended a Congress meeting 
and cannot say what was said there. 

46. B. N. Chakravarty could not tell when asked about the implications of the 
Cattle Preservation Act, but admitted that Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar and Jahan- 
uddin Ahmed talked about it. 

47. The learned counsel for the petitioner did not address the Court at all 
on allegations made in paras 10(6), 10(7) and 10(8) of the petition. 

48. The ninth meeting was said to have taken place at Gutipara in the house 
of Shamshcr Ali in Gutipara Constituency on 27-2-57. Amjad Ali, Md. Azad Ali 
and Santi Roy are alleged to have carried on propaganda on communal lines. 
Amjad Ali spoke about the attempted ban on burial of the dead by Muslims and 
said that the bill had been kept in abeyance.. He referred to Ramdhun song 
which Was sacrilegious for the Muslims to sing, and also said that at Marishbari, 
Muslim houses wore burnt at the instance of the Congress. 

49. No specific, allegations were made about Azad Ali who is said to have 
appealed to voters on communal grounds. Santi Roy and Md. Azad Ali are 
said to have charged the Congress party and Congress Government with having 
interfered with the religious rights of Muslims, 



.254° TUE GA/lil 1 r - 01 INDIA : NOVEMHhk 29, I 9 r .w At, K A HAVANA a, I MRU [I*am II 


50. Four witnesses, namely; Hussain Ali (34), Juran Ali (35), Abdul Gani (36) 
and Huranuddin Sarcar (37), were examined on behalf of the, petitioner about 
the meeting. Hussain Ali said that Anjnd Ali talked about the Marishbari inci- 
dent and blamed the Congress for it. U > also spoke about a song called ‘Ram 
Mangal’ or ‘Ram Lila', saying it was compulsory for Muslims to sing it. lie also 
lamented the fact that it was not possible for Muslims to sacrifice cows at plea- 
sure He told the audience that a law preventing the Muslims from burying the 
dead was about to be passed. Azad Ali and Santi Roy supported him. 

51. The witness denied having embezzled any money belonging to a Traders 
Co-operative Society of which he was the Secretary, but admitted that, on a 
check up, his cash was found short and he made up the deficiency. 

52. Turan Ali (35) has merely stated that he heard some, people saying that 
.as a law was being passed by the Congress about stopping burial of 'the dead 
by Muslims, they could not vote lor the Congress. The witness admitted that 
Ihe was convicted in a dacoity case and was arrested in connection with another 
though not chargesheeted. 

53. Abdul Gani deposed that Amjad Ali said that the Congress Government 
was able to prohibit cow-sacrifice and to stop burial of the dead by Muslims. They 
were also forcing Muslims to sing Ramdhun Geet. He referred to the Marishbari 
incident. Santi Roy and Azad Ali spoke in the same strain. The witness stated 
That his father did not attend the meeting, Hasemuddin Sarkar said that Amjad 
Ali told the audience that burial of their dead would be, stopped. Muslims were 
■being made to sing Ramdhun. He referred to Marishbari incident. 

54. Amjad Ali examined only one witness in rebuttal of petitioner’s testimony 
-about this meeting. He is Shamsher Ali (R.W. 11), Ho stated categorically that 
there was no meeting at Gutipara in his house or ill its neighbourhood though 
Amjad Ali, Azad and Santi Roy stayed with him for one night. 

55. The tenth meeting is alleged to have been held at Gauripur— Goahata. 

56. This meeting is alleged to have been held on 12-1-57. This was in 
L.A. 39 — Gauripur constituency. The speakers were Jahanuddin Ahmed (Presi- 
dent), Bibhuti Sarkar, Santi Roy, Hussain Ali Prarlhanl. They are alleged to 
have systematically appealed to electors in the name of religion. 

57. Amjad Ali is said lo have referred to the bill to stop burial of the dead 
saying that it was kept in abeyance, and would become law if he were not 

'■returned. He also referred to the Marishbari incident and Ramdhun song, com- 
ment]*?, on them in a way suggestive of interference with their religion by the 
Congress Government. 

58. Hasem Ali, Md. Azad Ali, Sanli Roy, Bibhuti Sarkar all spoke in the same 
.strain and appealed to religious sentiments. Jahanuddin Ahmed followed his 
set pattern. 

59. No Jess than six witnesses of the petitioner have deposed about this inci- 
dent. The first is Safaruddin Sarcar (No. 28). He deposed that Amjad Ali spoke 

about the bill to prevent burial of the dead by Muslims, which had not been 
passed as a result ol his efforts, the buring of Muslims houses at the instance, 
of the Congress, and compulsory singing of Ramdhun, Jahanuddin Ahmed 
emphasised the Congress had prohibited cow slaughter which interfered with 
their religious freedom. 

60. Shri Fakharuddin Ali Ahmed addressed a congress meeting to counter- 
act the propaganda. 

61. The witness admitted that he had been chargesheeted for forgery and 
.cheating; so was Maksed Ali, the next witness. He denied that he was dismissed 
from Police Service and stated that he had resigned his job. He admitted he was 
working for the Congress and also for the petitioner. He made contradictory 
statements on the question whether he was discharged from service or had resign - 
•ed, but was forced to admit on further cross-examination that he had been dis- 
charged. 

62. Maksed Ali’s (P.W. 29) statement is substantially the same in spite of some 
variations here and there. Maulavi Fakharuddin Mandal (P.W. 30) is the next 
witness of this series. The witness stated briefly that Amjad Ali said that the 
■Congress had banned cow sacrifice, and an attempt by the Congress Government 
to prevent Muslims from burying their dead had not succeeded on account of his 
■opposition. Both Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin Ahmed spoke about Marishbari 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1058/ AGRA IIAYA N A 8 , 1880 254 T 


incident. They said that Muslim houses were burnt at the instigation of the 
-Congress. Others, according to the witness, spoke in the same strain. The 
witness deposed further that speakers asserted that the Congress was striking 
at the root of Islam, and this view was supported by quotations from Koran 
Sharif The witness could not say if Abdul Bari’s father and his father were 
first cousins. On further cross-examination he, admitted that they were cousins. 
He could not say whether they were first cousins or distant cousins. The answer 
is evasive. 

03. Isaf Khan (P.W. 31) generally supported the charge of appeal on religious 
ground. He said that a village, possibly ‘Jhalikbari by name (meaning 
TVIarishbari ) was said to have been burnt at the instance of the Congress, ajnd 
was vague about a song which was said to be objectionable. Abdul Bari Sarcar 
(P.W. 321 is a pleader. He was a Congress candidate for Gauripur constituency 
His statement relates in the main to a Congress meeting. He did not say any- 
thing about the P S.P. meeting at Gauripur — Gohata. He stated that he was 
■defending Safaruddin and Makse,d Ali, and also deposed that the Muslims were 
not aware of the Cattle Preservation Act until P.S.P. members, including Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and others of their ilk began talking about it, to the 
people. He learnt in November, 1956 that P.S.P. we-re planning to make this 
Act a plank in their election campaign. On further cross-examination ho stated 
that Ramdhun Gect was not. against Shariat in his view. 

64. Abul Kalam Azad (P.W. 45) has also deposed about the meeting. He said 
that at the meeting, ban on cow-killing, compulsion about the singing of Ramdhun, 
.and also a law preventing Muslims from burying their dead being in the offing, 
were discussed. Jahanuddin Ahmed referred to Marishbari incident in the. 
usual way and said with reference to Koran that cow sacrifice, which has been 
prohibited, was obligatory. This witness was appointed teacher in Gauripur High 
Madrassah with effect from 20th May, 1 957. Abdul Bari is the secretary of the 
Managing Committee of the School. The witness further stated that Ramdhun 
was being sung in the Primary section of the Madrassah at Gauripur. He did not 
know the text of the song, hut said that it placed Ram and Allah on the same 
level. He, admitted having appeared as a witness for Abdul Bari in his case. 

65. No specific reference to Bibhuti Sarkar's speech was made by thi^ wit- 
ness. What is stated is that he was amongst the speakers and appealed to voters 
■on the lines of the, other speakers. 

66. Two witnesses, namely; Sahabuddin Ahmed (R.W. 16) and Bashiruddin 
Ahmed (R.W. 7) were examined about this meeting by Amjad Ali. Sahabuddin 
Ahmed is a member of the Managing Committee of an old School Madrassah, a 
supervisor of the Defence party, and a managing member of the Village Co-ope- 
rative Society. He attended the Gauripur meeting. He deposed that on his ques- 
tion, Amjad Ali explained the import of the Cattle Preservation Act. He. admit- 
ted that Marishbari incident was discussed. 

67. Bashiruddin (R.W. 13) is a teacher in Islamia Madrassah at Changbranda 
and also a member of the managing committee of the village school. He also 
■deposed that on a question by the preceding witness, Amjad Ali explained the 
^significance of the Cattle Preservation Act, but added that he did not say any- 
thing about the Marishbari incident. 

68. In regard lo the meeting, the parties arc at logger heads about its date. 
'The petitioner and his witnesses have adhered to the statement that the meeting 
was held on 12th January. The case of the respondent and the opposite parties 
summoned under section 99 of the Act, is that the meeting was held on 25th 
January. Mr. Bose has argued that tho petitioner was mislead by the poster 
for the meeting which announced the meeting for 12th January. He has led 
evidence to show that there was rain on the 1 2th January and the meeting though 
announced could not bei held on that day. The evidence on the point is not help- 
ful An assistant of the Civil Surgeon Office has been examined who deposed 
that his record showed some rainfall at Dhubri on 12th January. He could make 
no statement about the time of the rain and had no record of rain at Gauripur. 
The oniv other witness examined on the point by the opposite parties is 
Md. Oudrat Uilah. He supports their version. He admitted thgt Azad’s younger 
brother is Shakat. His sister wag married to Shakat and Azad was a P.S.P. candi- 
date for Gauripur. He admitted further that Abul Pazal, Jahanuddin Ahmed, 
Bibhuti Sarkar, Sanli Roy and some others went to his *hop on 12th January. 

69. In regard to the date we have petitioner’s witnesses four in number. We 
have their word against the witnesses of the opposite parties. The date loses 
great, deal of its significance when it is common ground that a P.S.P. meeting was 
’held at Gauripur m which Cattle Preservation Act at least was discussed- 



3542 THF: GAZETTE OK INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRA HAVANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


70. No argument has been addressed on the allegations contained in paras 
10(11) and 10(12) of the ( petition, from either side. 

71. On 14-2-57, a public meeting presided over by Maulavi Omar Ali was 
eaid to have been held in Goalaehar L. P. School. Juhanuddin Ahmed and 
Amjad Ali spoke, accusing the congress Government of enforcing by law stoppage 
of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter and of burial of Muslim dead bodies, and also 
the banning of Azan and Namaz, and the compulsory singing of Ramdhun Geet. 
Bibhuti Sarkar did not address this meeting. 

72. The averment about this meeting receives substantial support from the' 
statements of three witnesses, namely, — Goyeshuddin (P.W. 42), Mokbul Hussain 
(P.W. 43), and Nurul Islam (P.W. 44). Goyeshuddin wa s cited as a witness by 
both parties, He has supported the case set up by the petitioner. Respondent 
has himself admitted that the Cattle Preservation Act was discussed in this meet- 
ing, though in para. 18 of the written statement, he denied both the meeting and 1 , 
the utterances attributed to him and Jahanuddin Ahmed. Nurul Islam (P,W. 44) 
deposed on further cross-examination that the Ramdhun Geet was against the 
tenets of Islam. 

73. Tahiruddin (R.W. 9) deposed that Amjad Ali explained the import of the 
Cattle Preservation Act on being interrogated about it. He also referred to a: 
talk abofit prohibiting cow slaughter at Delhi. He deposed that he gave greater' 
importance to religion than to matters political and economic. Mensubuddin 
(R.W. 10) supported the previous witness and admitted that if cow sacrifice or 
slaughter is panned it would interfere with Muslim religion. He added that 
Amjad Ali also said so. 

74. On 15-2-57, a public meeting was said to have been held at Kadamlola 
L. P. School, at which Jahanuddin Ahmed is alleged to have said that the Cong- 
ress Government had been following a policy of gradually doing away with Islam 
by banning cow sacrifice, stopping burial of their dead by Muslims, which might 
be enforced in the near future, and in other ways, He said that if Congress 
continued in power, Muslims might be compelled to worship like Hindus. Amjad 1 
Ali supported him. Hafizuddin supported both by reference to Quaranic texts. 

75. Two witnesses, namely; Sahadat Hussain (P.W. 58) and B. Bellram Sonar 
(P.W. 59) supported the petitioner in regard to this meeting. Sahadat Hussain 
deposed that Amjad Ali, jahanuddin Ahmed, and Haflz-Nur Ahmed spoke at the 
meeting. It was said that cow sacrifice had been stopped. If Congress were 
returned to power, thei Muslims shall have to cremate their dead. Call to prayer 
would also be stopped. The statement of P.R. 59 is also very nearly to the same- 
effect. Sahadat Hussain deposed about three meetings namely; Bilashipara, 
Bengalipara. and Kadamtala. He was a Congress worker and was getting travel- 
ling allowance from the Congress for Election work. 

76. Amjad Ali has examined three witnesses about the alleged Kadamtala 
meeting. They are — Shukur Ali Munshi (R.W. 27), Ilimuddin Sheik (R.W. 30), 
and Sanar Ali Munshi (No. 31). All three have deposed that no election meet- 
ing was held at Kadamtala. Sahar Ali (No. 31) has admitted that he was con- 
victed in a criminal case and fined Rs. 25/- once and had been prosecuted for 
getting the wife of some one married to another. This case, was said to have- 
filed in default. 

77. This is tha first instance in which denial about the holding of a meeting 
has been sought to be proved by evidence. 

78. Mr. Bose has pointed out that according to the petitioner the meeting was 
held on 15th February. Evidence led shows it was held on 16th February. Since 
the allegation in the petition are based on information received, a mistake like 
this is not unlikely. 

79. No argument has been addressed on the allegations contained in paras. 
10(15) and 10(16) of the petition. The learned counsel for the petitioner did 
not refer to any evidence by which those specific instance were sought to be- 
proved. 

80. On 28th February, 1957, a public meeting was alleged to have been held 
in the Bengalipara H. E. Nadrassan by the P.S.P. Both Jahanuddin and Amjad 
Ali addressed the meeting. Both said that cow slaughter had been banned," the 
Congress party had planned the stoppage of burial of dead bodies of Muslims, 
and would probably stop Azan and Namaz if not opposed at the election. They 
also referred to the Ramdhun Geet, urging that it was un-lslamic. Nur Ahmed" 
lent support to them by reference to texts from Holy Quoran. 



Sec. 3 (H)j] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8. 1886 2543 


8L Tw° witnesses, namely; Abu Bukar (P.W. 57) and Sahadat Hussain 

(F.W. 58) I were examined by the petitioner about the meeting. Abu Bukar depos- 
ed that Amjad said that if the voters did not vpte for the opposition, they 
shall be prohibited from .sacrificing cows. Burial of the dead would also be 
prohibited, and Ramdhun Geet shall Jiave to be sung by all. Jahanuddin Ahmed 
said the same, and both were supported by Hafiz Nur Ahmed, Sahadat Hussain 
said that Amjad Ali stated that the Congress had stopped cow sacrifice., They 
would prevent burial of the dead by Muslims, and call to prayer would be banned. 

82. Amjad Ali examined two witnesses, namely; Kalim-Uddin Munshi 
(R.W. 19), Shukar Mohmmad Bepari (R.W. 21). Kalimuddin said that he had 
heard of the, Cattle Preservation Act from various sources, but it was not dis- 
cussed in this meeting at Bengalipara. He admitted that his house had been 
searched by the Police in his absence, and that he was an accused in a complaint 
case, the charge against him being that he, with others, had tortured Shafat and 
obtained from him the divorce of his wife. Shukur Mohd. Bepari is related to 
Kalimuddin. He supported him. Their depositions tend to show that there was 
no appeal to voters on communal or religious grounds. 

83. No argument has been addressed on meetings alleged in paragraphs 
10(18) and 10(19), and no evidence bearing on them has been referred to, 

84. On 5-3-57, Bibhuti Sarkar is said to have addressed a large gathering at 
Bilashipara Hat with the aid of a loud speaker. He denounced the Congress 
Government and the Congress Party representing that the Congress was an 
enemy of the Muslims, as it had encroached on the religious freedom of Muslims 
by stopping cow slaugher and burial of Muslem dead bodies. He. swore 
in the name of Goddes Kali that if the Muslems voted for the Congress, 
they would not remain Muslems and would have to worship like the Hindus. 
'Three witnesses have ben examined about this meeting. Sahadat Hussain 
(P.W. 50) is the first of the series. He deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar had a mike. 
He told about 10 to 15 thousand people who had gathered there that the. Congress 
had banned cow sacrifice. He swore by Goddess Kali that if the Congress were 
returned to power, Muslems will have to cremate their dead bodies, and Mam 
would vanish. The witness stated that he reported what he had heard to 
Omaruddin who took notes of what he stated. 

85. Sonahar Ali Goanbura (P.W. 60) is the next witness. He heard Bibhuti 
Sarkar addressing people over the mike at Bilashipara Hat. He said that Muslem 
dead bodies will have to be cremated if the Congress were voted to power. 
Muslems shall also have to follow Hindu customs and manners. 

86. Mofizuddin (P.W. 62) is the last witness of the series. He deposed that 
(Bibhuti Sarkar said at this meeting that the Congress had stopped cow killing and 
cow eating and they would stop burial of dead bodies by Muslems. In Delhi, a 
Law had been passed to that effect and the Congress had been Hinduising 
"Muslems. 

87. Amjad Ali examined Sk. Mohmmad Bepari (R.W. 21) about this meeting. 
The witness stated that there was a meeting at Bilashipara. He deposed that 
Amjad Ali addressed the meeting but did not make any appeal on religious 
•grounds. He admitted, in cross-examination, that Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the 
people from a car at Bilashipara, but did not state what he said. The witness 
stated that Kariumddin was not related to him, but admitted that he was removed 
from the office of Secretary on account of mis-appropriation of Rs. 399/-. B. C. 
Das the 3rd witness of the opposite party admitted that Bibhuti Sarkar addressed 
the people at the Bilashipara Hat with the aid of a mike., but he did not appeal to 
voters on religion or communal grounds. His statement, however, was qualified 
by the admission that he did not hear the. whole of his speech. The 4th March, 
1957, was a ‘Hat’ day at Lakhiganj Bazar. Jahanuddin Ahmed, Amjad Ali, Ismail 
Hussain, Azad Ali and Sahadat Ali, who were workers and supporters of P.S.P., 
attended the ‘Hat’, Jahanuddin Ahmed, Amjad Ali and Ismail Hussain addressed 
the people. They dissuaded the, people from voting for the Congress Government, 
as it had been responsible for stopping cow slaughter and cow sacrifice. They also 
asserted that it would stop burial of Muslem dead bodies, ban ‘Aza'n’ in the 
(Mosques, and that it had also introduced ’Ramdhun’ in schools to insult the Islamic 
faith. Muslem women will have to put vermilion marks like Hindu women on 
their foreheads, and unless Moslems voted for the P.S.P. candidates, their religion 
would be in danger. The, same evening, Sahadat Ali and Bihbuti Sarkar addres ■ 
sed the people at Lakhiganj and spoke in the same strain. 

88. Teleb Ali Ahmed (P.W. 55) was one witness who was examined about this 
■meeting. He is a school master. He stated that Jahanuddin Ahmed, Amjad Ali, 
Ismail Hussain, Sahadat Ali, and Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the meeting. Amjad 



2544 T11E GAZETT1 ' : 01 INDIA: NOVEMBER 251. 1958., AGRA HAVANA 8, 1880 [Part It 


Ali said that the Congress Govt, had banned cow eating and cow 
sacrifice. ‘Ramdhun Geet’ was being sung in schools. It was against the tenets, 
of Islam, and if the congress were voted to power, the call to prayers ( Azan) would 
also be banned. Dead bodies of Muslems will have to be cremated. Other speakers 
repeated all this. 

89. Bibhuti Sarkar said in addition that in future the Congress would require- 
vermilion marks on the foreheads of Muslem women- -a step in the. process of 
Hinduising Muslem women. This witness is a teacher in a Government aided school: 
at Lakhiganj. 

90. Maksed Ali, brother of Omaruddin, was the Head Master of the School at 
the time of the polling, and he was a congress candidate from Bilashipara cons- 
tituencies. This witness denied having proposed Maksed Ali. Ismail Hussain 
witness No. 4 of the opposite parties has identified his signature on the nomi- 
nation paper. 

91. Majibur Rahman (P.W. 56) is another witness about this meeting. He- 
deposed that Amjad Ali said that Congress had stopped cow sacrifice. He supported 
the previous witness, 

92. Panchananda Nath (P.W. 46) is the third witness of this series. He heard 1 
Ismail and Bibhuti Sarkar saying that the Congress had stopped cow killing and 
that there was a bill in the Parliament to prevent Muslems from burying their 
dead. They referred to the ‘Ramdhun Geet’ as anti-Islamic. The witness is a 
member of the Congress party. He is also the president of the Mandal Committee 
Of the Congress. He conveyed what he had heard to Sarat. Ch. Singha, president 
of the Congress Committee. He also admitted that 'Ramdhun Geet’ was being, 
sung in the primary schools in his locality. 

93. Amjad Ali examined two witnesses, — (1) Safiure Rahman (No. 24) and (2)- 
Beru Md. (No. 32). Both these witnesses supported the version of Amjad Ali. 
They said that there was no appeal to voters on communal or religious grounds. 

94 The Opposite party have examined Haj Ismail Hussain (O.P. 4) about this 
meeting. He has asserted that the meeting was in front of the Madrassah and 
not in the Hat or Bazar. Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar 
spoke. They made, no religious appeal in his presence. He did not listen to the- 
whole of Bibhuti Sarkar’s speech. He denied that he was dismissed from Lakhi- 
ganj Madrassah, but admitted that he had not resigned. The two statements are 
inconsistent. He claims to be the secretary of the managing committee of his. 
school and the president of the managing Committee of the L. P. school. 

95. About a fortnight before the date of polling (6-3-57;, Jahanuddin Ahmed, 
and Bibhuti Sarkar visited the ‘char’ area near Chappar falling in Union No. T 
of Bilashipara polling station, which is exclusively inhabited by Muslems. They 
went from village to village ar.d asked the people not to vote for the congress- 
candidate, as the Government and the Congress Party had framed laws virtually 
stopping cow sacrifice, thus interfering with the religious freedom of the Muslems. 
If the Congress were voted to power, Muslems would not be allowed to bury their 
dead. They appealed to them in the name of religion to vote in favour of the, P.S.P. 

96. Two witnesses, namely; Ai’sar Ali (No. 23) and Julhas Uddin (No. 33) have 
deposed about this propaganda tour. Both the witnesses deposed about group 
meetings in which, according to them, appeal was made, to voters to vote against 
the Congress and for the P.S P. candidates on grounds of religion, by reference- 
to prohibition of cow slaughter, anticipated stoppage of burial of the dead etc 

97. Abdul Gafur (No. 12) and Khalil Talukdar (No. 13) are Amjad All’s wit- 
ness, so far as this part of the case is concerned. Abdul Gafur claimed to- be a 
four-anna member of the Congress. He deposed that Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Bibhuti Sarkar went to his place and took him as their guide in the char area, 
and he went with them to several places, Jahanuddin Ahmed was canvassing, but 
did not appeal to voters on religious grounds. 

98 Khalil Talukdar had deposed about Jahanuddin Ahmed's visit to him and 
his advice to him to vote for any one whom he thought fit. The opposite parties 
have complained that the particulars with regard to propaganda in this area were 
vague but they did not ask for further particulars. 

99. On 3rd March 1957, a public meeting is alleged 1o have been held at 
Chappar. It was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, and Bibhuti 
Sarkar. Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin Ahmed said that cow sacrifice and cow 



*ec. 3 fib] THE GA/ETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 20, 1058/ AGRA HA YANA 8, 1880 25'45 


Slaughter had virtually been stopped. Bibhuti Sarkar supported this view and : 
pointed out how Congress Government had made it obligatory on Muslim boys 
in schools to sing Kamdhun Geet. 

100. The version ol the petitioner about the meeting receives ample support 
from the statements of P.W. — N. C. Dam — (PAV. 19) who attended some Congress 
group meetings in connection with the elections, D. K. Medhi (P.W. 20), an active 
member of the Primary Congress Committee, N. C. Roy (P.W. 21) an active 
member of the Dhubri Congress Committee, and Mayy-Uddm Sarkar (P.W. 22) 
who is not a member of the Congress Committee. The last witness is a teacher 
in the Chappar High School. N. C. Dam stated that though the word absolute was 
not used, the impression left was of a total ban. According to the version Sudhir 
IBose was the President, According to one witness he made some presidential' 
remarks. 

101. Sailesh Chardra Nag (R.W. 7) and Abid Ali Sarcar (R.W. 8) were 
examined on behalf of Amjad Ali. S. C. Nag said that he was the Vice-President 
of the Rural Panchayat. Amjad Ali, Jahunuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar 
talked about economic matters at the Chappar meeting and did not say anything 
else. He also deposed about disturbances of 1955. He said there was agitatiom 
for driving away Bengalis. There was a procession in which there were Congress 
members. The witness stated further that he was a Bengali and wanted that 
Bengali should be a spoken language in Assam. He also demanded the inclusion 
of Dhubri Sub-Division in West. Bengal, 

• 

102. Abid Ali Sarcar a collecting member of the Union deposed that Amjad' 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar spoke about ferry taxes, sales taxes, 
and about unpaid compensation for lands taken for the Bund. He did not 
remember what else was said, He was a member of the Chappar rural panchayat 
and was- the President of the village Defence party. He is one of the riot sufferers 
and got some advance. He remembers that the speakers assured that they would, 
obtain remission of the advances. 

103. Sudhir Kumar Bose (O.P, No. 7) has been examined by the Opposite 
parties. He was a Zamindar and owned a large area of land with other members 
of his family. He deposed that he did not belong to any political party. He had 
a Saw Mill and was selling wood. He attended the Chappar meeting and deposed 
that Jahanuddin and not he presided over this meeting. He stated further that 
no appeal on religious or communal grounds was made. He admittedly was a 
friend and supporter of Jahanuddin Ahmed, He held meetings in order to oppose 
the Copgress in regard to the manner of their contemplated abolition of 
Zamindaries. His brother-in-law contested the Bilashipara seat against the Con- 
gress in 1952. 

104. About meetings and propaganda alleged to have been made in paras. 10(24) 
and 10(25), the learned counsel for the petitioner did not refer me to any evidence. 

1 05. Some 25 days before polling in LA, Dhubri Constituency, a meeting is 
alleged to have been convened by P S.P. at Kachari Hat within the said Consti- 
tuency. It was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, Abu), Fazl and 
Bibhuti Sarkar. They appealed to the voters to vote for the P.S.P. on communal 
lines according to the usual pattern stating that the Congress party and Congress 
Government were trying to Ilinduise all Muslims and were carrying on anti- 
Islamic activities. 

106. Dr. B N. Nath (P.W. 47) deposed that he was present at the meeting. 
Amjad Alt told the audience that if they voted for the Congress, they will have 
to cremate their dead.. A law had been passed to the same effect. Cow slaughter 
had been banned. Kamdhun Geet was being sung, it was against Muslim religion. 
TP is witness is a mrtriber of the Congress. 

107 Vikum Chand Jain (P.W. 49) deposed that Congress wanted to interfere- 
with the religion of the Muslims by prohibiting cow sacrifice, hut that this had 
been avoided. The prohibition had not been enacted, but added that if there was 
no opposition, the danger to Islam would remain. Bibhuti Sarkar said that 
Congress had prohibited cow sacrifice and cow slaughter. The Government will 
enforce cremation of dead bodies by Muslims. According to this witness the 
meeting commenced at 6-30 pm. 

108. Yusuf Ali (P.W. 50) is the 3rd witness of this scries. According to him, 
Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, AbuJ Fazal and Bibhuti Sarkar spoke about the- 
banning of cow slaughter, contemplated stoppage of the burial of the dead, and 
the unti-IfJamic effect of Kamdhun which was being sung in Schools. The meet- 
ing according to this witness commenced at 3 p.m. 



.2546 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ACBA HAVANA t. 1SK0 [Part II 


109. Stiruj Mai (P.W. 52) has made a very brief statement. Amjad Ali said 
that there was agitation about the prohibition of cow slaughter, but nothing had 
happened. He did not say anything more, Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar said that, if 
they voted for the Congress, they may have to cremate their dead. This witness 
is a brother of Vikamcnand. 

110. Jaifulla Seikh (No. 3) and Khagcndranath Nath Adhikari (No. 4 are 
the two witnesses for Amjad Ali. Both supported his version in a general way. 
Jaifulla did not remember what Jahanuddin Ahmed Abul Fazl and Bibhuti 
Sarkar said. Khagendranath Nath also did not remember if anything else was 
said, besides Taxes, Tenant rights etc. He deposed that he had been a member 
of the Congress party for about eleven years. He said he paid Rs. 2 for active 
membership though the prescribed fee was Rs. ]0. 

111. On 23rd February 1957, a public meeting is alleged to have been convened 
by the P.S.P. in village Dharamsala within the L.A. Dhubri constituency. The 
speakers were Amjad Ali, Abul Fazal and Bibhuti Sarkar. They said that Con- 

. gress Government had interfered with the religious rights of Muslims, 

112. The petitioner’s witnesses who deposed about the meeting are Dr. B. N. 
Nath. (No. 47), Mahendra Nath Sarkar (No. 48), Yusuf Ali (No. 50), Darali No. 
(51), Giasuddin (No. 53) and Fazaruddin Sarkar (No. 54). 

113. Dr. Nath deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar, Amjad Ali and Abul Fazal repeated 
what they had said at Kachari Hat, He is a member of the Congress. I-Ie con- 
tradicted his earlier statement on further cross-examination by stating that 
Bibhuti Sarkar was not present in the Dharamsala meeting, 

114. Mahendra Nath Sarkar deposed that Amjad Ali said that cow sacrifice 
will be stopped by legislation, dead bodies of Muslims shall have to be burnt; 
Ramdhun Geet was anti-Islamic. Congress was trying to Hinduise all Muslims. 
Abul Fazal and Bibhuti Sarkar said the same. He could not state what points 
the Congress speakers made in their meeting at Dharamsala, Yusuf Ali (No. 50) 
deposed that Amjad Ali said that cow slaughter had been banned; burial of dead 
would be stopped; Ramdhun Geet was being sung. Dur Ali (P.W. 51) supported 
the statement of the previous witnesses and admitted that Ramdhun Geet was 
being sung in his village schools. He states that Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar and 
Abul Fazl addressed the meeting. On further cross-examination this witness has 
stated that it would be against Shariat if Allah and Ram have been- placed in the 
same position in Ramdhun Geet. Giasuddin (P.W. 53) also lent support to the 
petitioner's version about the meeting. Fazaruddin Sarkar (No. 54) deposed that 
the speaker said that cow sacrifice had been banned and burial of the dead would 
be stopped. According to this witness Jahanuddin Ahmed did not address this 
meeting, 

115. Patru member (R.W. 1), member of the Rural panchayat and president 
of the meeting, has deposed that Amjad Ali did not say anything about cow 
slaughter or cow sacrifice. No one said that Islam was 'in danger. He denied 
that he belonged to P.S.P. 

116. Wahed Ulla Bepari is the second witness in the series for Amjad Ali. He 
supports the petitioner’s version of the meeting. 

117. My attention has been drawn to allegations in para. 10(6) of Ahis petition. 
It is averred that Amjad Ali and Bibhuti Sarkar held meetings between 17th 
February 1957 to 24th February 1957 at Nisiripur. It is argued that Bibhuti 
Sarkar could not be at Dhubri on the 23rd February. Amjad Ali has deposed 
that Bibhuti Sarkar was with him at Dharamsala on the 23rd February. 
Petitioner’s witness — P. K. Chakravarty has deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar 
addressed a meeting at Fakiraganj on the 22nd or 23rd February. Mr Bose has 
relied on this statement for showing that Bibhuti Sarkar was not at Dharamsala 
on the 23rd February. 

118. I have not been referred to any evidence about the meeting alleged to 
have taken place at Golakganj by either side. 

119. On 15th December 1957, a meeting is alleged to have taken place at 
Moharichar in L,A, Mankachar constituency. Amjad Ali dwelt upon the banning 
of cow slaughter, on the burial of the Muslim dead bodies, and talked about the 
compulsion in singing Ramdhun Geet and worship of Tulsi plant. 

120. Abul Suban (P.W. 6) deposed that Amjad Ali said that cow slaughter 
had been stopped and sacrifice of cow was permitted but with permission of the 
authorities. An Act was going to be passed which would stop burial of the 
Muslim dead. Ramdhun song un-Islamlc in character, was being sung, Ha 
claimed to have stopped it. 



Site. S (11)0 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1938/ AGRA HAVANA 8 , I 88 O 2547 


121. The statement of P.W. 7 is useless. He did not attend the meeting. Hi* 
knowledge is at best second-hand, and his testimony not direct. Dr. Mohammad 
Moksed Ali (P,W, No. 8) deposed that Amjad Ali said among other thinga 
that singing of Ramdhun had been stopped as a result of his efforts; and a bill 
aiming at a ban on burial of dead bodies of Muslims had been thrown out in 
consequence of efforts of opposition parties. The witness admitted that he was a 
member of the Congress, but his connection with it had ceased. 

122. Maflzuddin Saroar (No. 22) and Ainuddin Sheik supported Amjad Ali’» 
version of the case about the meeting. 

123. Petitioner’s witnesses namely; Amad Ali Munshi (No. 24), and Efazuddn* 
<No. 25) deposed to hearing Jahanuddin Ahmed stating at Syed Ali’s house that 
cow sacrifice had been prohibited and cows under 14 years of age could be 
-slaughtered with previous permission of the authorities. If this continued, they 
could not remain Muslims. A Bill to stop Muslims from burying their dead was 
pending. Efazuddin deposed to the same effect. This incident is not alleged in 
the petition. Evidence about it is, therefore, being left out of consideration. 

124. On 11th February 1957, a meeting is said to have taken place in Bhaidbari 
Inspection Bunglow. This was convened by the Secretary, Bhaidbari Co-operative 
Society under the instructions of the Co-operative Inspector of Phulban Circle, 
ft is averred that in this meeting, Shemsher Ali said that the Congress is trying to 
Hinduise Muslims. It has banned cow slaughter. Afazuddin Mandal who is 
alleged to have been a supporter of Amjad Ali, said that the Congress Govern- 
ment had stopped cow slaughter which was incumbent on Muslims ns part of 
their religion and that it would legislate to compel Muslims to burn their dead. 

125. Tarifulla Dewani (No. 38) deposed that Afazuddin said that the Congress 
was responsible for burning Muslim houses and the abolition of burial of their 
dead. Shamshcr Ali talked to the same effect. Makshedur Rah-man said that 
Congress had stopped cow slaughter and burial of the dead by Muslims. Tafaulla 
(No. 40) deposed that Shamshcr Ali said that the Congress will stop cow 
.slaughter and burial of their dead. Kctu Sarkar (No. 41) deposed that both 
Afazuddin and Shamsher said that oow t slaughter and burial of the dead were 
going to bo stopped. 

120. Dr. Rahat Ali (No. 18) and Asad Uddin Munshi are Amjad Ali’s witnesses, 
Dr. Rehat Ali deposed that he w r as present at the meeting; and except matters 
relating to co-operalive society, nothing else was discussed. Shamsher Ali did 
not attend the meeting. Asaduddin deposed to the same effect. 

127. Sarat Chandra Singha (No. 27) is a whole time Congress worker. lie is 
the President of the Dhubri Congress Committee. He is also the Secretary of the 
Assam Pradesh Congress Election Committee and President of the District Con- 
gress Election Committee. He himself was a Congress candidate from Gossain 
Gaon constituency. He deposed that as president of the District Congress Com- 
mittee, he came into contact with Congress workers in different localities. The 
P.S.P. propaganda, according to him, was that if the Congress w r on the elections, 
•the Muslims shall not be allowed to sacrifice cows. They referred to the Cattle 
Preservation Act and preached that by reason of this Act, Muslims would not be 
able to exercise their religious rights. The Congress would stop the burial of 
dead bodies and it w T ould make cremation compulsory. It was also stated that a 
bill to stop burial of the dead was introduced in the Parliament, but it could not 
be passed as a result of Amjad Ali's efforts. The Congress, it w T as stated, intro- 
duced the singing of ‘Ramdhun Geet" in schools which was un-Islamic. The shift 
ing of Jumma prayers from Fridays to Sundays and the compulsory worship of 
*Tulsi’ were anticipated from the trends of the Congress policy. The -witness als» 
referred to the exhibition of a partially burnt copy of the Holy Koran at Salmara 
and other places as also the exploitation of the Marishbari incident. The witness 
gave the names of persons from whom he received reports. He further deposed 
that he reported all this to Shri B. P. Chaliha (now Chief Minister of Assam) 
and also the publicity department of the Provincial Congress Committee. The 
publicity department in consequence issued a pamphlet to explain the significance 
of the Act. This pamphlet is Ex. P. 3. He informed Sri Blshnuram Medhi, the 
then Chief Minister also about the reports he had received, 


128. He denied that the Congress became unpopular wdlh the Bengalis as a 
result of his participation in demonstrations against the demand for taking 
Goalpara District out the State of Assam and including it in West Bengal. 



254 8 THE GA/FTTK or INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ ACRAHAY ANA 8, 1880 ]r,. II 


129. He did not receive any written reports, nor did he take down, notes. The 
propaganda, he said, v. as on such a large scale that no taking of notes was neces- 
sary. lie did not personally attend any meeting. His evidence is based on 
reports received. He discussed the situation with the Chief Minister, Shri R. 
Brahma, Shri M. M. Choudhury, Shn Debeswar Sarnia and Jonah Fakhnruddin 
Ali Ahmed. He could not give the details of the speeches made at any particular 
mceling or by any particular individual. He merely summed up the P.S.P. pro- 
paganda that was carried on in a general way. He could not give the date of 
the pamphlet issued. He stated that it was for distribution where necessary. 

130. The pamphlet purports to be a reply to the distorted version of the Act 
passed by the Assam Government. Its object was to counter-act the false 
propaganda of interested communal ists. It dealt with and explained the signi- 
ficance and the purpose of the Act stating that communal groups had been trying 
to show by false propaganda amongst the simple Muslims that the Congress 
Government, by passing the Act, had interfered with or invaded Islamic religion. 
In the main, the pamphlet is an answer to this charge. 

131. Who would believe thut the Congress organisation would issue and dis- 
tribute a pamphlet, which repeals the charge against it of abridging the religious 
freedom of the Muslims ana then try to meet it? If propaganda on religious 
grounds was not carried on by reference to this Act, it is inconceivable that a 
pamphlet like this could have been issued. That this step was considered neces- 
sary indicates in no uncertain manner that intensive propaganda on a large scale- 
was being carried on with the Cattle Preservation Act as its basis and with a view 
to appealing to Muslim voters on grounds of religion, as an appeal in this form: 
was more likely to be attended to than merely criticism of the Congress Govern- 
ment in relation to matters outside the domain of religion or in relation to its 
efforts in the region of economic reconstruction. 

132. Respondent denied the knowledge of the distribution of the pamphlet, but 
his witness Wahetulla Bepari (No. 2) talked to Umaruddin about this pamphlet. 
KaJimuddin (R.W. 19) also stated that papers published by the Congress about 
this Act were shown by Umaruddin. It is difficult to believe that the pamphlet 
was not being utilised after its publication. 

133. Amjad Ali’s written statement embodies a total denial of the meetings 
held and of the utterances of speakers alleged to have been made in para. 10 of 
the petition. At the trial he admitted that on the 16th January, he addressed a 
meeting at Fakiraganj, on 17th January at BurkakaJi, on the 20th January at 
Jaleswar, on the 21st January at Chunari, on the 22nd at South Salmara, on the 
25th January at Gouripur, on the 1st February at Kuehri Hat, on the 14th 
February at Morichar, on the 17th February at Bcngalipara, on the 22nd February 
at Gualachar, on the 23rd February at Dharamsala and on the 2Gt.h February aL 
Bandiparachar. He deposed that he went to Gutipara on the 27th February 
when no meeting was held there. On the 3rd he held a meeting at chappar; on 
the 4th March at Lakhiganj. He denied that there was any meeting at Kadamtala. 

In regard to the two meetings alleged to have been held at (1) on 27th February, 
1957 at Gutipara and (21 on the 15th February, 1957 at Kadamtolu, Amjad Ali . 
adhered to his denial in the written statement. 

134. Between the two versions there is difference of dates of about five meet- 
ings only, These meetings were at South Salmara, Gauliehar, Marichar, Bengali- 
para and Gouripur. No great importance attaches to Lhe variations in dates. 
Both sides had no notes or memoranda about the dates of the meetings. There 
is no documentary evidence as to the dates of the meetings. Conflicting statement 
may, therefore, well be expected. It is worthy of note that some public meetings 
at least were admitted to have been held at places and on dates alleged in lhe 
petition, though no such disclosure was made by the respondent in his written 
statement, 

135. He came into the witness box when all his witnesses had been examined. 

He did not open his rase in the usual way. His statement to a very great extent 
is a repetition of the statements of his witnesses, who were examined in his 
presence on different dates. When be began to adduce evidence, it was pointed 
out that according to the usual practice, he himself should come into the witness 
box first. His counsel preferred to examine other witnesses before calling the 
respondent into the witness box. "It is the duty of a party, -who has certain f£*cts 
within his personal knowledge to appear before the Court at a very early stage 
of the case as a witness and to give evidence relating to these fact's and submit, 
himself to cross-examination by the other side”— (wide 1933 Lahore 243-244). The 
rule so expressed was defied. Amjad Ali deposed as to the nature of the pro- 
paganda he carried on in his constituency and stated that his propaganda was 




0] 

GA 

OF A; v . 

. 29, 

^/ACRAHa.aNA 8, 

2549 

directcc 

l to 

showing 

the economic situation 

in the 

country as revealed 

in the 


Manifesto (Ex. R. 5). He and his supporters talked about unemployment, labour’ 
conditions, distribution of land, disparities of income and the P.S P, view of the 
five years’ plan. Local problems were also discussed. These included the link- 
ing of the Garo Hills with the plains, the strengthening of the main system of the 
railways and the proposed bridge over the Brahmaputra between Jogighopa and 
Pancbaratnd, remission of loans to migrants, failure of the Assam Government to 
pay compensation to those whose lands had been taken away for the building of 
embankment, and non-interference with the rights of the tenants under the 
Goalpara Tenancy Act, 

136. He conceded that the Cattle Preservation Act was discussed at meetings 
at Fakiraganj, Jaleswar, Chunari, South Salmara and Gowalichar, In all these 
meetings questions were asked about the Act and they were answered, The 
scope of the Act was explained correctly and no kind of religious or communal 
propaganda was carried on. Even this concession made at the trial did not find a 
place in the written statement. 

137. Amjad Ali is an advocate of the Supreme Court. Ho was a Commissioner 
of the Goalpara Municipality for two terms. In 1937 he was a member of the 
Goalpara. Local Board. He was nominated 1o the Dacca University Court in the 
year 1939 and appointed its Fellow in 1943 on the recommendations of the late 
Sir Saiyed Md. Saddulla. He was elected to the Assam Legislative Assembly as 
an independent candidate. He remained its member from 1937 to 1945. In 1939 
he joined the League. In 1950 he joined the Socialist Party. 

138. Amjad Ali bad made a long statement in connection with the documen- 
tary evidence on record. His statement in relation to this evidence shall bp 
considered when documentary evidence bearing on different aspects of the 
controversy is considered, 

139. Evidence bearing on specific instances given by the parties and referred 
to by thoir learned counsel in argument has been summed up above. I have 
also carefully gone through the rest of the evidence which has any hearing on 
matters, in controversy. There is evidence both documentary and circumstantial. 
I now proceed to consider the oral evidence in the light of available evidence, 
documntary and circumstantial under appropriate heads which are supplied by 
the alleged planks in the election campaign of Amjad Ali, 

140. From the evidence ol' the peitioner read as a whole, one fact emerges 
very conspicuously. Witnesses of the petitioner have consistently deposed that 
Amjad Ali and his supporters indulged in propaganda on religious and communal 
lines. They did not depose that the respondent’s manifesto, or the programme 
or the principles of the P.S.P. were referred to and gjiscussed. According to 
these witnesses, the speeches of the respondent and his supporters were limited 
to the denunciation of the Congress party and the Congress Government, only 
on religious and communal grounds. One looks in vain for any statement by 
petitioner’s witnesses admitting that any speaker of the P.S.P. deviated into an 
effort to educate or inform the electorate as to what the P.S.P. stood for, It 
is somewhat surprising that speeches should have been confined invariably to 
religious or communal issues only. 

141. The respondent is in an even worse position in this ' respect. His 
witnesses have adhered to the pattern of the petitioner’s witnesses. They have 
deposed that Amjad Ali’s and his supporters approach to the electorate was 
exclusively based on matters other than religious or communal. No appeals 
were made 1o voters on grounds of community or religion. Questions about the 
Cattle Preservation Act wore just answered very accurately. There was no 
reference to any matter with religious or communal association. I regard 1 His 
as even more surprising in view of some documentary evidence, Which has been 
made available in this case, and to which reference will be made presently. 

142. Both the parties have put their cases skyhigh. Oral evidence is directed 
to proving the respective cases set out in the pleadings. 

143. Oral evidence in election cases may well be received with* abundant 
caution. Rival parties and organisations have their supporters. They are 
usually large in number. In large constituencies, the followers, supporters and 
adherents of parties would be in still larger numbers. Election petition is a 
continuation of the tontest. at the polls. Witnesses from those who openly take 
sides either from convictions or for other reasons cun be easily produced to 
support cases put forward by contesting parties. These witnesses even if honest 
and truthful may have unconscious bias. Several witnesses of the petitioner 
have admitted that they are members of the Congress. Amjad Ali stated that 


2550 THK GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER. 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [PakH 


he had supporters and workers of his party. Their number was considerable. 
Oral evidence in this case amply illustrates the need for caution. The two versions 
go to two extremes to which it was possible to stretch them. It is difficult to 
believe either version in its entirety. 

144. Another obvious difficulty is that witnesses on either side made no notes 
of speeches. There were two or three speeches made at each meeting. The 
witnesses cahnot be expected to reproduce from memory the words used by the 
speakers when dealing with even prominent topics of discussion, after about a 
year of the election campaign, when they came into the witness box. Accurate 
reproduction of speeches would depend on the attention given at the time of the 
speeches, interest in the matter discussed, powers of memory and competency of 
the witnesses to understand and express what is heard. These qualities would 
vary in persons constituting even an intelligent audience. Oral evidence of 
speeches, therefore, is to a great extent subject to mistakes which can occur by 
absence of proper comprehension of the speaker’s meaning and also when the 
person reproducing has difficulties of retaining what is heard and then expressing 
it after a long time. A slight alteration in words even unintentional may give 
a different meaning or colour to the utterance. In election cases little twists to 
what is said may even be looked for. In the circumstances a search for truth 
by a close examination of the oral evidence in the light of available documentary 
and circumstantial evidence is the only course for finding out what may in the 
circumstances of the case be regarded as proved beyond any reasonable doubt. 

145. From petitioner’s evidence it appears that the Cattle Preservation Act, 
1951, was exploited for persuading voters to believe that the Congress party 
was willfully interfering with the religious freedom and the rights of Muslims. 
The petitioner’s witnesses have deposed to it, though the words 
they expressed themselves in were not exactly the same. Some 
witnesses stated with reference to Amjad Ali’s speeches that all that he said 
was that though there were no restrictions on the slaughter of cows for sacrifice 
on Id days, permission for slaughter was necessary at all other times and cattle 
above 14 years of age could alone be slaughtered. A large number of witnesses 
said that Amjad Ali and his supporters asserted that cow slaughter and sacrifice 
had been stopped. Some said that if the Congress was voted to power, it 
would be stopped. It has been argued that petitioner’s witnesses have given 
no less than throe versions of the manner in which the Act was utilised. Some 
have said that a total ban had been imposed on cow scarifies and slaughter; 
others deposed that the Act imposed restrictions on religious rights; some also 
stated that cow sacrifice and slaughter would be banned. These differences 
appeared in the statements of petitioner witnesses. It is possible that the 
speakers at the different meetings put their eases differently. It is also possible 
that witnesses when giving evidence have reproduced their own impressions of 
what was said. One thing, however, is fairly evident. Petitioner’s witnesses 
have deposed that even when the restrictions contained in the Act were referred 
to, they wore presented as restrictions on pre-existing religious rights, which 
stood reduced or abridged. The third version may merely mean that the 
provisions of the Act, which had been given clfect to, would be implemented 
and they would give rise to an effective ban on cow slaughter, and at least a 
partial ban on cow sacrifice. The gravamen of the charge is that the Act was 
fully utilised by Amjad Ali and bis supporters for creating a religious or 
communal bias amongst the Muslim voters against the Congress Government and 
the party. Frequent references were made to the Holy Koran. Texts were read 
and explained. It was given out that cow sacrifice was enjoined by the Shariat 
and the religious freedom necessary for it. had been taken away or was so 
curtailed that virtually cow slaughter and sacrifice stood banned. The recitation 
of the Holy Koran and the reading of the texts in relation to the situation 
created by the Cattle Preservation Act could easily be understood as an appeal 
on grounds of religion and would in law amount to it. 

146. Respondent Amjad Ali started with an out and out denial of all references 
to matters religious or communal. Some of his witnesses admitted that questions 
were asked and answered. The import of the Act was explained in meetings 
held at six places. Amjad Ali, who came into the witness box last of all had 
heard what the witnesses had said and himself conceded that the Act was 
discussed at the meetings held at Fakirganj, Jaleswar, Chunari, South Salmara, 
and Gaulachar. He deposed that in all these meetings questions were asked 
about it The questioners wanted to know by which legislature, this Act had 
been passed, its implications and the areas to which it applied. He told them 
that the Act had been passed by the State Legislature. Legislation on the same 
lines was attempted even at the Centre and the Prime Minister himself opposed 
it, It was put to a division and was lost. The Assam Act had been passed in 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ AGRA HAVANA 8 , I 8 HO 255 I 


1951. It was not given effect to till August, 1956. He also explained the 
provisions of the Act stating that cows or buffalos above 14 years of age could 
be slaughtered with the permission of the Competent authority. He also told 
them that the Act did not apply to sacrifice on three days of Id-Uz-Zuha, and that 
its application was limited to the plain areas of Assam. 

147. Assuming that this was all that was said Amjad Ali brough out that 
the Parliament had thrown out a similar Act. The Prime Minister had opposed 
its passage. The Assam Legislature which passed it applied it to the plains, 
leaving the Hills areas out of its operation. The 3rd point which was made out 
was that barring three days of Id, when cow sacrifice was possible without let 
or hinderance, permission for slaughter of cows was necessary, and this could 
be obtained only in the case of cows above 14 years of age. 

148. It may be stated that what was conceded by Amjad Aii and his witnesses 
at the trial is not consistent with the total denial about references to the Act 
for purpose of election. Even in para. 34 of the written statement the fact 
that the Act came into picture as admitted in evidence on certain occasion was 
not mentioned. It appears that later it was felt that the extreme position 
taken up in the written statement was difficult to maintain. The statement of 
Amjad Ali brings out a modified version. 

149. The claim that the Act was discussed involuntarily and only in answer 
to question cannot he reconciled with some important documentary evidence. 

150. Ex.P(l) is a copy of a hand bill issued by the P.S.P. announcing the 
Fakiraganj meeting held on 16th January, 1957. Ey this hand bill, people were 
informed that ‘a huge gathering had been arranged for discussion ay to how 
Tenancy Law will be altered after the abolition of Zamindary and for discussion 
on ‘cow killing Law’ and various other subjects and to inform the general 
public about these laws’. It was further stated that Amjad Aii will enlighten 
the people about his achievements. The hand bill was issued over the names 
of nine members of the P.S.P. Amjad Ali inspite of his plea of denial admitted 
having addressed this meeting. Discussion on cow killing law was a part of 
the Agenda. Other laws were also mentioned. The reference could possibly 
be to the FuneraJ Reforms bill. These matters were to be discussed ii; confor- 
mity with the settled programme without any compulsion arising from questions. 

151. Ex, P(10) is another hand bill announcing the Chuuari meeting. It also 
refers specifically to the law providing for protection of cattle. Those notices 
we o placed on record by the petitioner. Ex. P.(l), Pf2) and P(10) were 
received in evidence with the consent of Amjad Ali and their proof was 
dispensed with vide order dated 24th October, [957. The conclusion that the 
contents of these hand bids point to is that the Act formed an important plank 
of the election campaign of the P.S.P. candidates. 

152. There is other documentary evidence on this aspect of the matter 
which also is not easy to impeach. Umaruddi P.W. No. 63 — i s a prominent 
eongr ss man. On 31st Jnnua-y, 1957 he addressed a letter (Ex. P. 13) to 
Shri 3. R. Medhi the then Chief Minister of Assam (now Governor of Madras), 
intimating to him that the “Muslim P.SP. candidates had made the cow protec- 
tion Act of 1949 or 1950 the spearhead of their attack against the Congress 
Government alleging in particular that the Act had been brought into force 
in August last, only in plains districts of Assam after certain independent 
M tslim M.L.As. joined the Congress and the genera] body of muslims were 
persuaded In do so, that the action of the Government is a dncct encroachment 
on the religious rights of Muslims. In the course of this infectious and mis- 
chievious propaganda by playing upon the rCnd o statements of the Muslim, 
thev are also giving a broad hint that stoppage 1 .nu-ial of Muslim dead bodies 
and the calling of Azan (call to prayer) may foiioRr suit not in the distant 
future. As a result of such propaganda being systematically carried out in the 
Muslim majority areas considerable disa/Tc-L »n lets ieen created. I consider it, 
therefore, my duty to bring the matter to your i,>,ti<’o ns well as to that of 
Mr. Chaliha (Shri Bimola Prosad Chaliha the then President of the A.P.C.C.), 
and would urge upon steps to he taken to counter this pernicious propaganda 
before it is too late”, 

153. Shri J. Hazarika, Principal Private Secretary to the Chief Minister was 
summoned to produce this letter as also a letter - > ; il to have been addressed 
to the Chief Minister by Abdul Bari on Dth January, 1957. He stated that he 
had not been able to trace these letters, They had been received in Shri J. 
Barua’s time. He was his predecessor in office. He teslified that the Ex. P, 5 and 
Ex. P. 7 were correct copies of the replies sent to Abdul Bari and Umaruddin. 



2552 THE gazette or India : November 29, 1958/agrahayana 8, mo [Part n 


154. Ex, P. 7 is a copy oJ! the letter sent in reply to Umaruddin’s letters of 
31st January, 1957. The letter deals with the Cattle Preservation Act. It 
states briefly the purpose of the Legislation and gives the gist of the provisions 
of the Act, 

155. It was put to Umaruddin (P.W. No. 63) in cross-examination that the 
Chief Minister’s letter does not refer to allegations about hinting by P.S.P, 
spokemen of the anticipated stoppage of burial of their dead bodies by Muslim 
and also of Azan. There is no express reference to these items in the Chief 
Minister’s letter. But this omission is intelligible. The Cattle Preservation Act 
was a Government measure. The Chief Minister and his Government were 
responsible for it. They would when occasion arose explain their object and also the 
import of the Act. Umaruddin had asked for a copy of the Act and the rules 
if any. The vital provisions of the Act were explained to him, The other two 
items of the P.S.P. propaganda had no connection with any Act of the Assam 
Government. But the Chief Minister did assure Umaruddin that he would meet 
him on 8th February and would discuss matters as to how the success of the 
Congress candidate could be assured. Evidently other items were left for 
discussion at this meeting. In any case the omission by the Chief Minister to 
refer to these t.wo matters brought out in Umaruddin’s letter does not cast any 
doubt or suspicion on the accuracy of the contents of Ex. p. 13. I have no 
hesitation in holding that it is a correct copy of the original which could not 
be traced. This document was placed on the record before it became known 
that the original could not be traced. 

156. It is noteworthy that Umaruddin wrote to the! Chief Minister as one in 
' charge of the election campaign on behalf of the Congress in the entire Dhubri 

Sub-division which formeef the major part of the parliamentary constituency 
with which we are concerned in this case. He was informed about the P.S.P. 
activities. He received reports from P. Choudhury, Nazmul Haque, Abdul Bari 
Sarcar and others that the P.S.P. were carrying on propaganda on religious lines, 
they were representing that the Assam Cattle Preservation Act of 1950 which 
had been enforced a few months before was an encroachment on ibc religious 
rights of the Muslims. He had reports that it was being said that the Congress 
would stop burial of the dead by Muslims and also the call to prayers. The 
letter is evidence of the fact that such reports were being received. Whatever 
the strength of the P.S.P. candidates, fabrication of evidence with the purpose 
of utilising it in court if congress candidates were defeated would be some- 
thing extremely improbable. On the other hand the need to counteract such 
propaganda could arise from an impelling necessity. The head ol the Govern- 
ment and the provincial head of the Congress organisation — Shri B. P. Cholihu — 
now Chief Minister — were both requested to take steps to counteract propaganda 
designed to split the citizens into communal or religious compartments. 

157. Abdul Bari (P.W. 321 also addressed Shri B. B. Medhi. He wrote to 
him on 9th January, 1957 — vide Ex. P.-4. He dealt with his difficulties. In 
para. 3 of his letter he wrote ns follows: — “That Lalji (Shri Prokatish Ch. 
Baruah) of Gauripur has decided to stand in my constituency as an independent 
candidate and one Aznd Ali has also been selected by the Socialist, party. 
Jonah Amiad Ali, M.P. along with his small band of followers is poisoning the 
ears of the Muslim voters bv saying that Congress of Assam has interfered with 
Islam in stopping cow sacrifice and that to in the plains only. The cattle 
Preservation Act of 1951 and its jmplementa + ion in August, 1956 is their main 
instrument of attack. Some practical guidance to the fact to meet their charge 
ms v promptly be made. And some All India Muslim Leader may be deputed 
to Dhubri to counteract this nefarious propaganda. 

158. As stated above the original of this has also not been traced. The copy 
is admissible No doubts have been cast on its correctness. In the 2nd week 
of January Abdul Bari a congress candidate was asking for assistance from the 
Chief Minister to counteract propaganda based on a view of the Cattle Preser- 
vation Act which it was apprehended may influence voters to a mass swing in 
favour of the P.S.P. 

159. Abdul Bari Sarkar (P.W. No, 32) deposed in cross-examination that he 
was selected for a congress ticket in the middle of January. Before that he 
was canvassing for the Congress since January, 1956. He found Muslims 
unaware of the Cattle Preservation Act until P.S.P. members including Amjad 
Ali began talking about it. He learnt in Novemher, 1956 that the P.S.P. were 
planning to make this a plank in their election campaign. He stated that he 
received no complaints from Muslims in general about this Act. He was 
confronted with Ex. R. 4, a letter addressed by him to Amjad Ali on 15th 
December, 1956. In this letter Abdul Bari expressed himself as follows: — ‘the 



tec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ACRAIIAYANA *, 1880 2553 


Muslim mind as you know is very much perturbed for the promulgation of the 
'Cattle Preservation Act in the plain districts of Assam. *** **+* ** Kindly 

put it before the Parliament and get necessary orders passed for withdrawing 
ihe Act at least before the election. I hope you will do the needful early’. 

160 The statement in the letter at the first blush would seem to be inconsistent 
with Abdul Bari’s statement in court. II he had received no complaints from 
muslims in general, would it be correct or appropriate to say that the Muslim 
mind was very much perturbed, The Act was passed in 1050. Effect was 
given to it. in July 1950 almost on the eve of the elections. There is no evidence 
from the petitioner’s side showing that, the observance or compliance with the 
provisions of the Act was insisted on before the polling. There is no suggestion 
that the applications for permission to slaughter were made during this time 
or there were any prosecutions for unauthorised slaughter. It is possible that 
the Gazette notification about the enforcement of the Act had not become 
widelv known till it had become a plank in Ihe election campaign, It is also 
likely” that till the middle of December Abdul Bari received no complaints about 
it from Muslims in general but he was not wholly wrong when he said that 
the Muslim mind was perturbed because of its promulgation. Abdul Bari when 
he said this must have meant the intelligentsia amongst the muslims. He 

himself was one of this class. He himself felt perturbed and was seeking 

assistance from a co-rcligionist though a political opponent for its withdrawal 

believing and hoping that the Act would he equally obnoxious to Amjad Ali. 

From the view point of elections Amjad Ali would be last person to assist Abdul 
.Bari. Even if he had no intention of exploiting its provisions and even if he 
was as desirous as Abdul Bari of getting its withdrawal, his -politically intelligent 
interest was not to lose the natural advantage which the Act gave him. It was 
a sort of a windfall for him. He could wait till the elections were over and 
then seek to obtain its repeal. As things then were Abdul Bari was unduly 
optimistic. He was placing n rather tail order on Amjad Ali. 

161. Amjad Ali has deposed that when questions were asked he explained 
the provisions of the Aet. correctly. He has expressed his opinion about it too. 
He said it was for the public good. He saw in it no interference with his 
religion. He said that he was not conversant, with Koran Sharif. He had read 
parts of it in Bengali and English. He thought the Aet was not objectionable in 
any way and was for the good of the public. He explained its significance to 
the people and they scorned to take it. gracefully. He did not think discrimination 
between tile Hill areas and plains as unjustified. The Act was un-exceptionable 
in his view. 

162. This statement, does not ring true. It does not sound probable much less 
convincing. Amjad Ali wrote to the Government of Assam asking for information 
on the following points: — 

-O') Whether the Act had been put into effect? 

(21 Whether any rules had been framed under it? 

(3) The extent of its application? 

In answer he got a letter dated lPth November, 1956 from Shri G. Barua, 
Under Secretary. - He explained when giving evidence that he was 
curious to know if inspiLc of the Prime Minister’s assurance that 
he would ask the Chief Minister to desist from passing such laws, 
the Act in question had been given effeet to. He naturally was 
expecting that such a thing could not have happened. 

163. At another place in his evidence Amjad Ali states that the Indian 
-Cattle Preservation Bill introduced in the Lok Sabha by Seth Govinda Das was 
not opposed by him. The Prime Minister himself opposed it. JTo even offered 
to resign on the issue if it become necessary. He said that Seth Govinda Das 
was a congress man. He was responsible for the bill. It was a private bill. 
The fact that, he was a member of the congress could easily lend itself to the 
view that some congress men even at the Centre were in favour of such 
legislation. Some people could be misled by suggestion or bints to that effect. 

164. The bill in the Lok Sabha was opposed on the; ground of the incompe- 
tency of the Central Legislature to consider it. The preservation of Cattle was, 
it was urged, a State subject and the States alone could legislate on it. According 
to Amjad Ali the Prime Minister was opposed to such a measure even in the 
States. He said he would ask the Chief Ministers to desist from promulgating 
such laws. Evidently inspite of the declared economic purpose of the proposed 
legislation at the Centre, and of the Assam Act, the Prime Minister was un- 
compromisingly opposed to it. But Amjad Ali thinks it is un-exceptionable. 



2554 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1886 [Part II 


Even Abdul Bari, a member of the Congress felt perturbed. He was a fitting*, 
representative of the Muslims intelligentsia and vainly hoped that Amjad Ali 
■would support him in obtaining its repeal. 

1G5. Shortly stated, the Act prohibits slaughter of cattle under 14 years of 
age. It provides for previous permission which is given if the condition laid 
down in the Act are satisfied. Permission could be given only if the cattle 
intended to be slaughtered js over 14 years of age and unfit by reason of disease 
for its normal activity. The limit about age etc., and the need for permission 
are restrictions on the freedom of slaughter which existed before the Act was 
given effect to. The Act exempts from its operation, slaughter of any cattle on 
the occasion of Id-Uz-Zuha. Section 13 further provides that the State Govern- 
ment may by general or special order and subject to such conditions as it may 
think fit to impose, exempt from the operation of this Act the slaughter of any 
cattle for uny religious ceremonial, research or any other purpose. The absolute 
exemption is only for three days of Id. During' the short period the operation 
of the Act is suspended. For the rest of the year the right to slaughter cattle 
has been restricted. 


160. Shri B. R. Medhi inlormed Umaruddin (P.W. 7) that the preservation 
of the Cattle which was the object of the Act was provided for on economic 

f rounds. But it can’t be gain-said that the measure is of a controversial nature. 

he opposition of the Prime Minister would presumably be on this basis. 
Despite economic advantages which surely will flow from restricted or regulated 
slaughter of cattle, other aspects of the legislation imposing restrictions have 
to be considered. The bill in the Lok Sabha was a private one. The Govern- 
ment or the Congress organisation were not responsible for its introduction. 
The traditional revcrance of the Hindus for the cow takes even the form of 
worship with some people. The slaughter of cows is regarded as sacriligious. 
For the Muslim its sacrifice on certain occasions in general and at Id-Uz-Zuha 
In particular, is a meritorious Act. Whether cow sacrifice is enjoined or not, 
there is no doubt that it has traditional and perhaps scriptural approval, so 
far as Muslims arc concerned. These differences of outlook make the measure 
undeniably controversial. The question has religious and communal aspects. 
It is, therefore, not surprising that opinion on the expediency of the Legislation 
on this matter may be divided. If Muslim opinion looks upon attempts at 
legislation even though prompted by motives of economic advancement, with 
disfavour it would not be surprising to find Amjad Ali curious to know if the- 
Act had been given effect to inspite of Prime Minister’s assurance on the floor 
of the House in the Lok Sabha to which he referred in his statement. His 
re-action was natural. His cjiriositv was shared by his Muslim electors according 
to him. His statement in court that the. Act was un-exceptionable must have 
been influenced by the provision contained in section 123(3) of the Represen- 
tation of the People Act, prohibiting appeals to voters on religious or communal 
grounds for voting or refraining to vote for a particular candidate. Tt is one 
thing to claim that Amjad Ali refrained from exploiting this Act as alleged for 
election purposes, it is a wholly different thing to say that the Act is un- 
exceptionable from tile Muslim v’evv point. It does not exempt cow sacrifice on 
occasions other than tu" Id-.Jz-Zuha and places restrictions on slaughter which' 
may appeal irksome to those used to the exercise of this right. 


167. The first meeting of the election campaign was addressed by Amjad All 
at Fakiraganj. The Act was discussed tlmre. In bold letters it was announced 
thattibc ‘cow killing Law’ would be discussed. There is a suppressed reference- 
to oWier laws as well. But the Cattle Preservation Act was prominently 
mentioned. The hand bill for the Chunari meeting also refers to it. The letters 
of Archil Bari and Umaniddin to the Chief Minister constitute a refutation of 
the position taken up by Amjad Ali. The Chief Minister and the President of 
the provincial Congress Committee were moved to counteract his propaganda. 
Reports were received from Assembly constituencies, A pamphlet was issued to 
explain the true significance of the Act and the Congress stand about it. 
Congress leaders like Jonab Fakharuddin Ali Ahmed and Shri Debeswar Sharma 
came to tell voters that the Act did not interfere with religious rights or 
obligations and that it had a purely secular purpose. All this became necessary 
because of a wide calculated any systematic appeal to the electorate to vote for 
the P.S.P. and against the congress candidate on the grounds of religion by 
reference to the provision of the Act bv Amjad Ali and his supporters. It is 
thus evidence — both documentary and circumstantial— which lends support to' 
the oral evidence about the utterances and the nature of propaganda at the 
meetings most of which had to be admitted at the evidence stage. 



S*c. 5 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : NOVEMBER A), IM8/AGR \HAYANA 8, I88O2555 


168. The contention that petitioner’s witnesses have giveh three versions 
about, the Act. Which has been dealt with above. In substance the charge was 
that the Act was freely and extensively utilised by Amjad Ali and his supporters 
for creating a religious and communal bias against the Congress has been and this 
has been fully substantiated. 

1(59. The 2nd plank of Amjad Ali’s campaign was that the Congress Govern- 
ment would stop burial of the dead by Muslims and enforce cremation. A hill 
known as the Funeral Reforms Hill was introduced in the Parliament in 1954. 
A copy of this bill has been tiled by Amjad Ali. He has also put in a copy of 
an issue of the ‘Comrade’ dated 15th September, 195G. In this issue there was 
an article under the caption ‘Funeral Reforms Bill causing anxiety amongst the 
religious minorities’. He did not refer t.o these documents in his own statement, 
nor did he examine any witness about them. He was asked in cross-examination 
why or for what purpose he had produced these documents. In regard to the 
copy of the, biil he said that I 10 had produced it to show that it was a closed affair 
as the bill had been thrown out long ago. Now a copy of the bill does not 
show that tlie Bill had been thrown out. It, may be utilised for showing whRt 
the bill was about. It would have to be proved otherwise than by the copy of 
the bill that the bill had been buried. The statement of Amjad Ali on this 
point, therefore, does not carry conviction. The purpose of a filing a copy of 
the bill probably was to sh'w what, the bill was intended or calculated to 
achieve. The provisions contained in the bill would show that prohibition of 
the burial of the dead was the objective. 


170. The hill embodied an absolute prohibition against burial. It was not 
directed against Muslims alone. All communities with whom burial of the dead 
was customary, would have been affected if it had become law. Muslims were 
the largest single minority which would have been affected. 

171. Amjad Ali has deposed that burial of the dead bodies is enjoined by 

Islam. Cremation would be un-Islamic. A Hindu member was responsible for 
introducing the Bill. J 

172. If there was no reference to this bill in the course of election campaign 
and if it was not utilised for attributing to the Congress parly or Government 
a communal or religious bias in favour of cremation which could lead it to 
legislate for enforcing cremation, it would he pointless fur Amjad Ali to produce 
the Cmmyde issue cf 15th September and the bill. On the other hand if 
references were made to this attempt to stop burial by legislation, the bill and 
the comments on it in the Comrade could be utilised for providing justification 
for what was said. 

173 . It has been deposed by a large number of petitioner’s witnesses that the 
campaign of Amjad Ah was directed to showing that Islam was in danger if 
the Congress continued ori in power. This attempt by a Hindu member to 
introduce cremation by legislation could easily lit into the scheme for a 
systematic appeal to rotors on grounds of religious by a little twisting of 
facts. Umaruddin’s letter (Fx. Pti) dated 2lst. January, 1957 brings out the fact 
that a broad hint was being thrown to voters that the stoppage of burial of 
Muslim dead bodies would follow the prohibitions of the Assam Act in no 
distant future. I regard it as extremely improbable that this statement should 
be in crei v a figment or Uinaruddin’s imagination. On 21,st January, 1957 tnere 
was no need for inventing such false charges. Prudence also would dictate 
against su -h a course, fur if Amjad Ah and his supporters were not utilising 
the bill for their campaign any effort to meet something which was not presented 
to the voters would have added to the difficulties of the Congress candidates. 
Unearthing an old dead hill and Ihen disclaiming responsibility for it was an 
unwise course. Uinaruddin consideiing his education, age, and experiences 
could not be regarded as capable of such a mistaken course. 

174. Kamdhun Gert — Tn regard to the 3rd plank of the campaign, the 
Ramdhun Gco f — Amjad Ali stated that he had correspondence with some people 
of South Salmara — a predominantly Muslim constituency. He had asked for the 
text of the song from them, Having does this he wrote to Shri Omeo F.r lr 
Das the then Education 'Minister. He forwarded with his letter the communi- 
cation which he had received from some persons of South Salmara who were 
objecting to. the singing of this song in schools. The Education Minister wrote 
back on 14th November assuring him that he w&uld discuss this matter with his 
officers. After necessary enquiries he wrote to Amjad Ali again sending him a 
letter of Shri U. Ali, B, L., B.T., Dist, Inspector of Schools, dated 18th 
November, 1956. He was informed that there were no orders from the Education 



■2 556 th1 ' gazette OE INDIA: NOVEMBER ‘3, 1 V.R/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


Department for singing or reciting this song. There was no compulsion about 
it. The letter of the Cist. Inspector shows that the 1 song was being sung though 
voluntarily. These letters were placed on the record by Amiad Ah. Three 
witnesses of the petitioner namely; Abdul Savnad Choudhury- — (P.W. 13), Abdul 
Kalam Azad (P.W. 49) and Panchananda Nath (P.W. 4(1) also admitted that the 
song was being sung in some schools. 

175. The evidence of the petitioner is that this Geet was characterised as un- 
Jslamic. “Johi Allah So hi Ram” was said to be something sacreligious as it 
placed Allah on a level with Ram. 

176. We have it from Amjad Ali that some Muslims in South Salmara were 
■ objecting to singing of this song. They approached him for moving the 

authorities for redress. lie did so and obtained and assurance that there was 
no compulsion about it. But the fact that it was being sung remained. “Johi 
Allah So hi Ram" is a mutilated version of a verse of the song. Apart from the 
word Allah the song is in Hindi, and even if it was not given out that there 
was any compuslion about it the fact, that it was being sung could serve as a 
basis for attributing to Congress a bias in favour of Hindu culture or religion. 
The song m substance may he a praver to God and yet their may not be many 
Muslim who may like to pray to (Jod in the words which would be strange 
to them. But whatever the meaning or import of the song it would come in 
handy for supporting a charge that the Congress was Hinduising Muslims or 
that it was imposing the Hindu wav of worship upon them. 

177. South Salmara L. A. Constituency is a predominently Muslim urea, 
There were objectors there. If appeal on religious grounds was decided on, I 
sec nothing improbable in the statement that the sung was characterised as im- 
Islamic and hints or suggestion about its compulsory character where thrown by 
some speakers at some meetings. 

178. The Marishbari incident is the fourth ground on which according to the 
petitioner religious feelings weic sought, to he roused. Ex. R. 2 put in by Amjad 
Ali embodies Abdul Bart’s (P.W. 32) version of the incident. He said in the 
letter that ‘on 12th February at about noon raiders numbering 5/(1 hundred 
composed of Hindus and Tribal men with deadly weapons entered into the area 
where the Muslims were living with families in their homes and burn each and 
every house and looted their properties and drove them away from that area 
and in their such action it is reported that two were killed and many injured, 
including v, omen some of whom are m a precarious condition’, Copies of this 
letter was sent to the Prime Minister ol India, Chief Minister of Assam, and the 
Chief Secretary. A copy was also sent to Arn|ad Ali. 

179. Ex. R. 3 is another letter from Abdul Bari Sarcar to Amjad Ali dealing 
with measures for relief work taken by the authorities. He also conveyed his 
thanks to Amjad Ali for the work he had done for the Marishbari suffeiers. 

180. Petitioner’s case is that Amjad Ali and his supporters represented to 
voters that this was a communal affair. Hindus at Congress instigation burnt 
Muslim houses. A copy of the Holy Koran was also burnt. It was shown at 
some meetings. A property dispute between two groups was given a communal 
Complexion for election purposes. 

181. Muslim houses were burnt. Hindus and Tribuls were charged for this 
horrible case of arson on a large sealc. If so many houses were burnt it is 
possible a ropy of the Holy Koran may have been burnt partially. This affair 
also lends itself for use as showing that the Congress regime made it possible 
for Hindus to burn Muslim houses. Mulims and their properties were not safe 
therefore, in Congress regime. 

182. Abdul Bari in Ex. R. 2 wound up his letter by saying that the unfortunate 
incident has created a great panic amongst the Muslims. He expressed the hope 
that Government will take proper und suitable steps to allay this panic. 

183. Amjad Ali himself produced Abdul Bari’s letter. When cross-examined 
about it he said that he had been to Marishbari reserve. Some houses were 
burnt. . This was due to conflicting claims to land. The land vested in the 
court of wards. This was set apart for settlement to people under schemes 
approved by the Government. He did not know if occupation of lands in the 
Reserve was legal or illegal. He went to' see if relief could be given to the 
sufferers from arson. He took up the matter with the Chief Minister of Assam 
who wrote to him on 3rd August. He himself filed the D.O. along with other 
documents in this case. He stated tbo' he did not tell the electors what he did in 
this matter, though he had conveyed it to some persons before the election. He 



Sfc 3 fit)] TIIE GAZETTE O I INDIA : NOVEMBER l> 9 , 19 :iH/A(’. RAHAYANA 8, 18802557 


■ denied that he told the witnesses that the Marishbari arson was an act of 

■ communal violence and that the Hindus with the encouragement from the 
Congress had bqrnt the houses of Muslims, 

184. Amjad Ali on his own showing had been to Marishbari to see that 
sufferers got relief. He could justifiably refer to his work in this respect. He 
could not resist producing documentary evidence of it in this case. Would he 
not have referred to it when carrying his election campaign? Presumably the 
letters produced were intended to serve as a justification for what was said 
about this incident and later possibly apprehending legal difficulties a different 
course was adopted. 

185. Marishbari does not lie in Amjad Ali’s constituency. Jahanuddin haa 
been represented as the one whose references to this incident including the 
display of the purtially burnt copy of the Holy Koran were persistent and 

-emphatic. "When an incident like this is woven into the texture of a seductive 

■ appeal 011 religious grounds it. would easily assume a communal complexion. 
Here the allegations arc that, it was wilfully and in express terms represented 
as an outburst of communal frenzy instigated encouraged or connived at by the 
Congress. Even making full allowance for any exaggeration that may have 
crept into the petitioners presentation of the ease of the incident could easily form 
a link in the chain of matters utilised for appeals on religious and communal 
grounds. 

18G. The apprehension of the Congress Government bunning Azan though 
referred to in Umaruddm’s letter to the Chief Minister has been mentioned only 
by a few witnesses. The evidence beuring on this point does not appear to be 
adequate for a finding that this fear of Azan being stopped was an important 
part of the appeal on grounds of religion, though some references may have been 
made to this possibility. 

187. In regard to the possible shifting of Juinma prayers from Fridays to 
Sundays and the allegations about compulsory worship of 'Tulsi' plant m South 
Salmara schools, the evidence falls far short' of the standard. Stray or casual 
.remarks may have been made at places by some of Amjad Ali’s supporters but 
1 found it difficult to hold that these two matters formed noteworthy planks or 
foundations for the systematical appeal cm religious or communal grounds. 

188. Documentary and circumstantial evidence discussed above provides ample 
mstillcation for u finding that the Cattle Preservation Act, the Funeral ffeforms 
Bill, the lismdhun Gent and the Maiisiiban incident were matters which were 
discussed at meetings of the PSP. which Amjad All and his supporters attended. 
They were the important points in the propaganda programme. Thcv provided 
attractive grounds tor a systematic appeal to voters on grounds of religion. The 
denunciation of the Congress. was on grounds of an alleged religion or communal 
basis, and support for the viev was derived from the four main planks of the 
election campaign. Oral evidence of Hie petitioner's witnesses to the effect that 
calculated persistent and a systematic effort was directed to showing the voters 
that in the Congress regime JVInshm religion was not safe receives ample support 
from it. It is fully proved that Amjad Ali and his supporters represented at 
their meetings that interference with Muslim religion had occurred and it was 
likely to be repeated in different forms. The Congress was out to Hinduise 
Muslim and thus banish, Islam and Islamic culture from the country. A Muslim 
on Congress ticket (the petitioner) was being painted as useless so far as the 
protection of the religious freedom and culture was concerned. All four matters 
mentioned above were fully exploited in support of the view that Islam would 
be in danger if the Congress was voted back to power. I entertain no doubts 
that Amjad Ali and his supporters who admittedly addressed so many meetings 
at different places and on different dates made systematic appeals to voters on 
religious and communal grounds, I regard this matter as proved bevond any 
reasonable doubt. I shall deal with the cases of the supporters of Amjad Au 
under issue No. 5. 

1R9, Eul this is all that may be regarded as proved. So far. oral evidence 
has supported from evidences which could not bo fabricated and which is not 
easily impeachable. But oral evidence goes further than that. Some witnesses 
of the petitioner who deposed from personal knowledge about meetings in their 
villages or in their neighbourhood tried to state what each speaker said. 
Some others gave the gist of one speech and said that others followed suit. All 
witnesses of one meeting have not been able to give identical versions. In all 
cases evidence of specific instances at the trial was not identical or 
in complete harmony with the allegations in the petition. This is not at all 
surprising. Petitioner’s witnesses may be literate, most of them are very few 



2558 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Pakt 11 


of them who attended the P.S.P. meetings could be regarded as educated. They 
are not used to listening to long speeches on matters political and economic,. 
They could be expected reasonably only to convey, the impressions they formed, 
of what they had heard. No one kept any notes. Even the petitioner did not. 
send any written report to any one higher up 111 the Congress heirarchy. The 
reports of Shri S. Smglia also were oral. The statement of Shri Singha would 
show that the reports lie received or made did not bring out what was said by 
different speakers uL a particular meeting. They were reports pointing to the 
propaganda and the material that was utilised for it. 

100, The witnesses came to make their statements about what they have 
had heard about a year after the elections. After this lapse of time it would 
not be possible for them to say what words were used by any speaker at any 
particular meeting. 

191. 1 do nol think it safe Lo base any finding on oral evidence alone as to 
what each speaker said at the meetings though oral testimony taken as a whole 
when seen with or in the light of documentary evidence carried conviction that 
the speakers — Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, Bibhuti Surkar— whatever else 
they may have said, joined in making at almost all the meetings fervent, eloquent 
and impassioned appeals to voters on religious and communal grounds to vote 
against Congress candidates including the petitioner and to vote for P.S.P. 
candidates including Amjad Aii. Speakers ocher than Amjud Ali were contri- 
buting to the general appeal in furtherance of Amjad Ali prospects at the 
election. Ail speakers at least the three speakers named above, made use of one 
or more of the basic planks of the campaign for appeals on religious or communal 
grounds when they addressed the voters at different places. 

192. Since the evidence seen as a whole leaves no room for cloubt that there 
were appeals in the name of religion and they were systematic in the sense that 
all grounds of attack on the Congress organisation which carried religious appeal, 
were fully exploited at all the meetings, 1 feel no hesitation in recording the find- 
ings that Amjad Ad has been guilty of the corrupt practice defined in section 
123(3). The himself and his supporters with his knowledge and consent systema- 
tically appealed to voters on communal and religious grounds in furtherance of 
his election prospects. Amjad Ali’s evidence even when reinforced by evidence 
led by Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar foils to rebut the charge, It has 
no valuable circumstantial support, It is mainly oral and its value and effect,, 
if any, is considerably impaired by documentary evidence produced by Amjad 
All himself. 

193. It has been contended by Shri N. C. Chatterjee on the strength of 3, 
E.L.K. 248 (M. B, Harris v B. P. Digoi) that the words ‘on ground of religion’ 
in section 123(31 should not be given the very wide meaning which they were 
capable of bearing, the section should be read so ns to conform to the pro- 
visions contained in the chapter on fundamental rights and to the right to 
religious freedom guaranteed by the, constitution. He urges that on recognised, 
principles construction it is open to the Courts to read the word ‘only’ in the 
section in or 'er m give ellert to the legislative Intent and purpose, 

194. Waida J was considering the import of section 124(5) of the Represen- 
tation of People Act, 1951 in :t, E.T..K. 248. The language of 123(3) of the 
Amended act is the same as iliat of 124 i. 3 ) . The words used are the same. The 
amendment has merely the ellcet of making th e corrupt practice defined in 124(5) 
as u major corrupt practices under 123(3). The words ‘systematic appeal’ to vote 
for or refiain Horn voting on grounds of caste, community or religion’ were inter- 
preted in 3, E.L Ft. 248. 

193. I have carefully considered the process of reasoning the learned Judge 
(Wadia J) employed. He noticed that the language employed if given its plain 
meaning would forbid all references to religion for furthering prospects at an 
election, bet observed that it should be so construed that it. may not be obnoxious 
to any provision of the Constitution, This may be possible where the language 
of the Statute is not elear or unambiguous or where it is capable of two interpre- 
tations. In such cases the interpretation that gives effect to the expressed Inten- 
tion of the legislature and also saves It from being hit by any mandate of the 
constitution may be placed on it. A narrower meaning may in such circum- 
stances be legitimately given to it. 

196. In this case the language creates no difficulties of interpretation. It- 
forbids appeals to voters on grounds of caste, community or religion etc., for 
furthering prospects at elections. Appeals on these grounds can take a large- 



Sec. 8 (ii) GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, I88O2559 


variety of forms. They may be made by words spoken or written, by visible 
.representations by use of symbols, insinuations suppressed suggestions, sarcasm 
.and by necessary implications of utterances or writings. Comment or criticism 
■on grounds of religion would be another method. The scope of the section is 
no doubt very wide and this may not be restricted by reading the word ‘only’ 
in the section which the legislature did not think lit to place there, Reading 
the word m the section would stretch the process of interpretation the function 
•of the judiciary to legislation which is completely out of its province. If words 
bear two meanings, one may be preferred which fits in with the context 
advances legislature purpose and saves the Act or the provision In question from 
being hit by any provision in the constitution. When ordinary meaning of the 
■words is clear when they can bear only one meaning that meaning must be given 
■even if the law is hit by the constitution and has to be declared ultra-vires. 


197, It seems to me that the section interpreted in Its widest sense expresses 
the purpose of the legislature and the object which it was intended to serve. 
The object is in consonance with the spirit of the Constitution, India is a secular 
'State. Separate and communal electorates do not; exist. The communities have 
no separate representation 011 religious grounds. If appeals on grounds oi religion 
caste, race and community had been permitted even along with other planks of 
election campaign considerations of religion and community may and at some 
places will result in the election of people with communal or sectarian out-look. 
'The evil sought to be remedied would persist. In the legislature we may then 
look for candidates returned on religious or communal grounds and not on political 
or economic considerations. The electorate and the. legislature may be divided 
into religious and communal compartments. The body politic may be infected 
again with communal virus. The purpose oi section 123(11) was to exclude 
appeals on grounds of community, religion etc., with or without other planks In 
■election campaigns. The language of section as It stands is suited to the achiev- 
ment of the purpose in view. 


198. il tile provision is obnoxious to any provision of the Constitution, it should 
be declared void and un-eoustitutional. Even the principle that ‘all words if they 
be general and not express are to be restricted to the fitness of the mailer' would 
not afford any justification for reading the word ‘only’ in the section. With great 
respect to the learned Judge, 1 think that whittling down the ordinary and plain 
meaning of words by reading the word ‘only’ in the section is not the appropriate 
course. The Interpretation should not where the language is clear be influenced 
by extraneous considerations such as the policy or the Intention of the law or the 
reference to or the .urology of other enacimcnls — 1944 Lahore 2H(i A.i,R.(F,B.) 
Sardar Singh v Rclu & others: The courts have, to find out what the legislature 
meant but what it has said that it meant and no modification of the language to 
meet that intention can be made — New Piece goods v Commissioner I.T.A. 1950 
S.C, 1 fc!5. Even when there is casus omissus 11. is for the legislature and not for 
the courts to remedy the defect — 1953 S.C. 148 — 150 A.I.R. 

199, In 6, E.L.R. .‘ilfi (Sardul Singh Cavceshar v llukam Singh and others) it 
was held that the scope of section 124(5) of the Representation of the People Act 
1951 I now 123(3)] which makes systematic appeal to vote or refrain from voting 
■on grounds of caste, race, community or religion a corrupt cannot be narrowed 
■down to a prohibition of attacks on a particular religion or on a candidate only 
■on the ground that he is a follower of a particular religion, I agree with this view. 

2(10, The constitutional validy of the provision in question was challenged in 
10, E.L.R. p 120 (.Tamuna Parsad Mukhariya and others v Lachhi Ram and Others) 
by Mr. Chatterjee himself. It was contended that it abridged freedom guaranteed 
to the citizen by Art. 19(1) (a). The appeal in that case was found to have been 

■ on grounds of caste, 'The contention of Mr. Chatteriee did not prevail, Their 
Lordships observed as follows: — “there is nothing in this contention. These laws 

■ do not stop a man from speaking. They merely prescribe conditions which must 
be observed if he wants to enter Parliament. The right to stand as a candidate 
and contest an election is not a common low right.. It Is a special right created 
by the statute and can only be exercised on the conditions laid down by the statute. 
The Fundamental Rights Chapter has no bearing on a right like this created by 
statute. The appellants have no fundamental right to be elected members of 
-parliament. If they want that, they must observe the rules. If they prefer to 
-exercise their right of free speech outside these rules, the impugned sections do 
mot stop them. We hold that these sections arc intra vires". 



A. 


2560 


- 29, 


8 , 


201. Section 123(2) thus being undisputedly valid constitutionally, there Is no 
reason why its word should not bear their ordinary meaning, There Is no justi- 
fication for restricting their import. The legislature had the power to curtail 
freedom of speech in relation to the exercise of the right to stand as a candidate ■ 
for election. 

202. In G, E.R.R. 310, the rival candidates were Sikhs. The successful candi- 
date was on congress ticket, In this case the Congress was referred to as interfer- 
ing with Sikh religion, It was observed in this case ns follows: — 

“In the above mentioned passages interference of the Congress with Sikh 
religion Is assumed and the necessity of avoiding that interference 
is made a plank for asking the voters to refrain from voting lor the 
congress candidate. It is true that In this particular case the 
Congress candidate happens to be of the same religion, bill in view 
of the congress policy as interpreted in these papers even a Sikh, 
Congress candidate cannot he a defender of their faith and therefore, 
tne Sikhs must vote, an Akali party Sikh into the legislature. This 
in our view clearly implies an appeal to vote for the Akali party ■ 
candidate on the ground of his religion because in view ot the inter- 
ference of the congress with that religion a congress candidate must 
be ruled out. Such a propaganda done on the eve of elections should: 
necessarily imply an appeal to vote or refrain from voting even il 
in every case there is no express appeal made to the voters about 
casting votes”. 

203. I am In full agreement with the view which prevailed in this case, and 1 
I entertain no doubt that systematic appeal made to voters as found above 
amounts to a corrupt practice under section 123(3). The appeal was extensive. 
The respondent and his supporters created an atmosphere surcharged with com- 
munal bias. 

204. Mr. Bose, the learned counsel for the Opposite parties has relied on the- 
judgment of Mr. B. C. Barua in BazUil Basil v. Sahadat Ali. 1 have carefully 
gone through this judgment. 1 have found it. extremely difficult to subscribe to 
the view which prevailed in this ease. Shri B. C. Barua noticed that the view 
of the Bombay Tribunal (Wadia .1 ) that the wider Interpretation could not be put 
on old section 124(5) of the Act because of its repugnancy to the fundamental 
right of freedom of speech, s^ood overruled. He, however, proceeded to observe 
that he was in respectful agreement with the main principle formulated in that 
case, namely that in enacting that section the Parliament only aimed at preventing 
the mischief of voting for or against a candidate only because of his religion, 
caste, race or community und that a restricted interpretation should be put on 
the unduly wide terms of the section, in consonance with the directive provisions 
of the Constitution as embodied in Art 15, l(i, 23, 29, 325 of the Constitution. 

205. The principle referred to hy Mr. Barua has been reproduced in judgment 
•f Wadia J. In the words of Wadia J it was as follows: — “The object of section- 
124(5) of the Representation cf the People Act was to introduce Ihc principles of 
the non-discrimination between different castes, communities and religions which 
was comprehensively laid down hy the Constitution of India and the said clause 
has merely carried Into effect in the sphere of the law of elections the provisions 
of Art. 15, lit, 23, 29. 325 of the Constitution of India the mischief which section 
124(5) aims at preventing was the voting for or against a candidate only 
because of his religion, caste, race or community and that being the, real object 
of the section we must put a restrictive interpretation upon the unduly wide 
terms of section 124(5)”. 

20G. The learned Judge put a restricted interpretation on the unduly wide- 
term s of section 124(5) in order that it. should give ciTcct to the object of section 
124(5) of the Representation of the People Act, The process hy which he ascer- 
tained the obiect or the section 124(5) Is clear from his judgment. He began by 
Interpreting the section with these remarks — ‘Section lAHSi has to he construed 
not b.v itself hut in the light, of the constitution and the intention nl Its framers. 
It is therefore necessary to construe the provisions of lh> Pm Presentation of the 
People Act in such a manner as to bring them into hermon.v with the intention of 
the framers of the constitution especially with regard to the fundamental rights- 
provided for bv Part III. The conclusion was stated at p. 27G is in the following, 
terms: — “When we examine section 124(5) of the Representation of the People Act 
in the light of these provisions of the Constitution of India we are, wo think 
Justified in assuming that the object of section 124(5) of the Representation of- 



3 


A 


8 , 


Ji 

the People Act was to introduce Into it this principle of non-discrimination bet- 
ween different castes, communities and religions which was emphatically laid down, 
in the constitution of India. Section 124(5.) has merely carried into ell'cct in the 

sphere of the law of elections the provision of Art. 15, 1(1, 25, aiid 525 of the 

Constitution of India. The mischief which section 124(5) was aimed at preventing 
was the voting for or against a candidate only because of his religion, caste, race 
or eemmunity and i£ that was as we apprehend it was, the real ubject of the 
section, wc must put a respective interpretation upon the unduly wide terms 
of section 124(5).” lie thought, that the legislature could not have gone beyond 
or against the provision contained in the Constitution. Ho ' could not attribute 
to them any intention of abridging freedom guaranteed to the citizen as this 
would have been a violation of the provisions contained in the constitution. This 
was the only basis on which he reached his conclusion as to the object of section 

124(5). Tills object has not been expressed by the legislature in the Act, or the 

preamble. The statement of objects and reason has provided no guidance 
Having thus ascertained the object he felt justified in reading the word 'only’ in 
the section for without it a narrow meaning could not be given to the Section. 

207. With profound respect to the learned Judge I am not persuaded to hold 
that it Ik open to a Court to discover the intention of the Legislature in enacting 
a provision by reference to the provisions of the Constitution of India. Legis- 
latures have without intending It, exceeded their powers. Laws have been fram- 
ed which sometime olTcnd against the mandates of the Constitution, In such 
cases the courts can not validate laws by reading something into th e provisions 
contained In a statute which is not there. The impugned law has to be adjudged 
ultra vires. 

208. In the absence of any other relevant material, the object of provisions in 
the statute can be ascertained only by giving ordinary meaning to the words used. 
The function of the court is not to ascertain what the legislature intended to enact 
or meant but what it said that it meant. There is no justification for inserting 
words to give effect to intention not expressed by the legislature. 

209. If there was any justification for the process of reasoning employed It 
has been taken away by the decision of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 
10, E.L.R. 120. The ratio o£ the decision of Wadia J has become obsolete. Its 
principle which is not distinguishable from its ratio also docs not tear scrutiny 
now. 

210. Whilst merely emotional or controversial issues may be raised at fieri ions 
an election may not be fought on appeals to voters on grounds of caste, communi- 
ty or religion. If a religious minority leels that the freedom of religious practice 
guaranteed to it has been curtailed by legislation or an executive act it may 
utilise its freedom of speech at all times for ventilating Its grievances and for 
obtaining redress. Individuals, who are not candidates at an election may also 
give expression to their views. Even agents and supporters of candidate may do 
so but not with the consent of the candidates. The prohibition enacted by the 
see. 123(3) is extremely limited. It. forbids appeals on grounds ol caste, 
community or religion by the candidate, his agents and supporters with his 
consent for the furtherance of his election prospects. The clear and emphatic 
pronouncement of their Lordships of (.be Supreme Court in 10, E.L.R. concedes 
to the legislature the competency to limit the freedom of speech in the conduct of 
election campaigns. When considering whether the provision ill question [sec. 
124(5)1 was ultra vires, the wide meaning that its words boar was assumed and 
taken into consideration. Despite curtailment of the freedom of speech guaran- 
teed by Art. 19(1) (a) lor the candidate in the matter of election, the impugned 
provision was found valid on the ground that any conilict that it involved with 
the provision in the Constitution would not make it invalid as the right to stand 
in an election is a creature of the legislature and it can be hedged ill by restric- 
tions which may whittle down somewhat the freedom of speech for furthering 
election prospects. Section 123(3) docs not prevent even a candidate from 
expressing his views if he feci? that his religious freedom has been abridged by 
legislation or an executive act provided that the expression of his view docs not 
take the form of an appeal to voters to vote for or against someone on grounds 
of casic, race, community nr religion etc. The legislature was competent to 
place this restriction on the fundamental right of a candidate for an election. It 
was a very necessary restriction if the secular character ol the state is to be 
maintained. It would also be a justifiable restriction on the guaranteed freedom ■ 
in the interest of the security of (he stale. If appeals to community, race or 
religion are permitted if grievances about curtailment of religious freedom could 
be made use at elections, the purpose of abolishing spparate electorates would be 
completely frustrated. The citizens and the legislatures would be divided once ■ 



: 256 a THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AG RAHA YANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


again Into religious or communal compartments making repetition of history- 
possible. I entertain no doubt that an appeal to voters which falls within the 
ambit of section 123(3) constitutes a corrupt practice which vitiates an election. 

211. Mr. Lahiri contended that the corrupt practice alleged and proved falls 
under section 123(2) also he urged that the allegations made in para. 3, 9, 10 
and 11 of the petition set up a case of under influence as well and that evidence 
seen in the light of these allegations would show that Amjad Ali and his support- 
ers were also guilty of exercising under influence on the voters. 

212. I am not impressed with this argument. I have carefully gone through 
the petition and have noticed all allegations made in it. The petitioner’s case is 
put at its highest pitch in para 8, where it is averred that these voters are mostly 
Illiterate, simple and susceptible to false religious propaganda and the opposite 
party, being also a member of the minority community took full advantage either 
himself or through his supporters and also through the Assembly candidates from 
the P.S'.P and other independent candidates and carried mischievlous propaganda 
on religious and communal lines amounting to corrupt practices and this led a 
was majority, * 

213. In para 9 the subject matter of the propaganda is given. The heads 
under which It was carried on are set out in details. 

214. In para 10, we have specified instances of the alleged propaganda on 
religious and communal lines. The contention that the alleged propaganda 
amounted to an appeal on religious and communal grounds is repeated adnaseum. 
in para 11 it was averred that the religious sentiments and susceptibilities were 
fully exploited by the opposite party, and his supporters and a serious apprehen- 
sion was created in their minds that their religious rights and freedom were not 
safe in the hand of the Congress Government and the party. 

215. The word ‘undue influence’ is conspicuous by its absence from the petition. 
There is no hint or suggestion that there was any direct or inffifect interierence or 
attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent or of any other 
person with the free exercise of any right. Whilst the language of section 123(3) 
is repeated frequently the petitioner did not venture to put forward the plea that 
this propaganda attributed by him to hts rival candidate could also fall under 
section 123(2). 

216. Issues were settled with the consent of the parties. The very first issue, 
the most important one in this case, involves the question whether there was an 
appeal to voters on religious or communal lines. There was no issue on the point 
whether undue influence was exercised or attempted for interference with the right 
ot voting. Issues two and three refer to the same corrupt practice which forms 
the subject matter of Issue No. 1. It seems to me that till the case reached the 
argument stage all that the petitioner was asserting was that a systematic appeal 
on religious and communal lines had vitiated — the election. If undue influence 
was sought to be alleged It was done in such a way that due notice of it was not 
conveyed to the respondent. 


217, To constitute ‘undue influence’ within the meaning of section 123(2) of the 
Act it is not necessary that there should be any actual threat or physical com- 
pulsion, but the method of inducement adopted should convey to the mind of the 
person addressed that non-compliance with the wishes of the person offering the 
inducement, may result in physical or spiritual harm to hlmse.lt .or to any other 
person in, whom he Is Interested. Some fear of harm resulting from non-compliance 
with the request is an essential element in undue influence. Where the influence 
Is said to be by a religious appeal it should be shown that it was made to appeal 
to the persons addressed that non-compliance would be considered to be irreligious 
or sinful. This kind of undue Influence can generally be exercised by religious 
teachers or persons having reputation for learning and piety; it may be exercised 
bv a news paper editor, If he has some standing in the society — vide (6, E.L.R. 
316)— Sardar Singh v. Hukum Singh and others. The definition does not hit at 
Influence or persuasion. Its essential requirement is expressed by the word 
‘undue’. It is the abuse of influence that makes it a corrupt practice. It is only 
when an element of compulsion whatever Its form, comes In that the influence 
becomes undue This compulsion interference with the voters freedom in the 
exercise of his electoral right. The voter ceases to be a free agent. Undue In- 
fluence, therefore, would generally take some form of co-ercion intimidation or 
threat. A mere appeal to voters an grounds of religion or a mere appeal to reli- 
. gious prejudices is not undue influence. 



Sec. 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1 958/ AG RAHAYA N A 8 , 1880 2.563 


218. Seen in this light the evidence adduced by the petitioner even if taken at 
its face value does not make out any case of undue influence. Mr. Lahiri has not 
referred me to any evidence in particular showing that anything was said or done 
which would amount to undue influence as distinguished from a systematic appeal 
to voters on grounds of religion, but mere appeal on grounds oi religion is not 
synonymous with undue influence. 

219. Petitioner deposed that Hafiz Nur Md. and others told voters that they 
would become Kaffirs by voting for the Congress. Another witness has also attri- 
buted this statement to Hafiz Nur Mohmmad. This evidence is an improvement 
on the allegations in the petition and cannot be considered seriously. Petitioner 
himself did not make any serious effort to allege and prove exercise of undue in- 
fluence by the respondent or any one of his supporters. In my view undue influ- 
ence is neither alleged nor proved. 

220. In view of the definite finding arrived at by me, the question about the 
standard of proof in election cases losses its importance so far as this case is con- 
cerned. It is not necessary for me to pronounce on it. The English and the 
American view Is that election cases being civil in nature, may be decided on a 
balance of probabilities. The consensus of view in India in cases of corrupt prac- 
tices particularly bribery w'hioh entails criminal liability seems to be that the 
alleged corrupt practice should be proved beyond any reasonable doubt. 

221. Evidence Act admittedly applies to the trial of Election cases. The word 
‘proved’ has been defined in the Act. A fact Is said to be proved when after consi- 
dering the matters before it. the court either believes It to exist or considers Its 
existence so probable that a prudent man ought under the circumstances of the 
particular case to act upon the suggestion that it exists. This definition is appli- 
cable to all cases civil and criminal including probate and election cases. What 
appears so probable under the circumstances of the case to a prudent man that he 
is induced to act on the supposition that it exists is proof. The probability must 
be under the circumstances of the particular case. The statutory rule is flexible. 
The judge trying the case is the prudent man of law. His conscience is to be 
satisfied about the probabilities of the situation. They should carry conviction to 
him. A physical certainty is almost impossible in human affairs, and therefore, 
also in criminal eases. But judges have invariably insisted on proof beyond 
reasonable doubt in criminal cases. This may be regarded as the demand of pru- 
dence in criminal proceedings, but this demand may vary in degree with the 
change in the character of the proceeding. It is a rule of prudence rather than 
law which requires more stringent proof In criminal than in civil cases. The 
standard of proof in all proceedings is the requirement of the prudent man which 
varies with each case. 

222. The reasons for a difference or approach in civil and criminal cases have 
been stated in the following terms by Best— 'There is a strong and marked differ- 
ences as to the effect of the evidence in civil and criminal proceedings. In the 
former a mere preponderance of probability due regard being had lo the burden 
of proof is a sufficient basis of decision, but In the later especially when the charge 
amounts to treason or felony a much higher degree of assurance is required. The 
serious consequences of an erroneous condemnation both to the accused and society 
the immeasurably greater evil which flows from it than from anerroneous acquit- 
tal have induced the laws of every wise and civilised nation to lay the principle 
though often lost sight of in practice that the persuasion of guilt ought to amount 
to a moral certainty or such moral certainty as convinces the minds of the tribu- 
nals as reasonable men beyond all reasonable doubt.' — vide Sarkars Law of 
Evidence 9th Edition p. 29 

222. The serious consequences which may flow from a wrong conviction parti- 
cularly in serious cases like murder etc., call for great caution. The reasonable 
man of law is impelled to demand a higher standard of proof to avoid committing 
an irrevocable mistake with very serious consequences to the individual and the 
society. Even when he is so exacting he is within his rights under the definition 
given in the Evidence Act. 

224. Election cases are not criminal proceedings. There can be no conviction. 
The procedure is not regulated by the criminal procedure Code The serious 
consequences that may flow from a wrong conviction in criminal cases do not 
follow. A returned candidate may lose his seat if found guilty of a corrupt prac- 
tice. He may also lose his right to vote for a specified period. Serious as these 
consequences are they are not as serious as the actual result of a wrong ronviction. 
Argument by anology has Its dangers and anology her? is far from perfect or 
complete. 



2564 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Pari II 


225, It may be argued that a finding that a person has committed a corrupt 
practice may entail liability to prosecution. But a finding in a civil case that a 
person has been guilty of perjury fabrication of evidence or forgery or that he has 
committed such injury to the person or property of another that he has incurred 
criminal liability would also expose him to a similar danger. The immediate 
result of the civil proceeding is some kind of civil liability. The disabilities result- 
ing from a finding as to the commission of a corrupt practice involve no more than 
the loss of civil rights. 

226. The conflict appears to have resulted from an effort to evolve a rigid rule 
of general or universal application. The legislature has not attempted it. The 
difficulty of the task is amply illustrated by the large number of cases expressing 
different shades of views. This attempt may well be avoided. There are also 

E ical difficulties in completely discarding the rule of preponderance of probabi- 
in election cases. 

227. In Probate eases the proceeding is of a civil nature, yet they have some 
distinctive features. The testator is not on the scene. Those who challenge the 
will are generally not parties or privies to it. Prudence has dictated clear proof 
of the due execution of the will and of a fit disposing mind. Even in election cases 
particularly where corrupt practices like bribery and undue influences are alleged 
very strict proof ought to be demanded, It is for the petitioner to establish the 
corrupt practice by reliable evidence and In the matter of onus the proceeding may 
be similar to a criminal proceeding in which the burden is on the prosecution to 
establish the charge. But in regard to the standard of proof a rigid rule placing 
the respondent in an election case on a level with the accused in a criminal trial 
does not appear to me to be necessary or desirable. I do not feel persuaded to 
subscribe to the rule that an enquiry into a corrupt practice is in the nature Of a 
criminal case and that the respondent is in the position of an accused person and 
thus absolved from all responsibility to adduce evidence or to rebut the case of 
the petition. 

228. The distinguished Advocates for the Respondent — Shri N. C. Chatterjee 
and Shri S M. Lahiri the learned Advocate General, discussed the question at some 
length. I have under the circumstances thought it fit to make a few observations 
on it, as at present advised, though It. was not necessary for me to pronounce on it 
for the purposes of this case. The evidence in this case when read as a whole has 
induced the finding that the petitioner has succeeded In proving beyond any reason- 
able doubt that the corrupt practice defined in section 123(3) has .been committed 
by Amiad Ali and some of his supporters with his consent. The cases oi his 
supporters will be dealt with under issue No, 5. 

229. Issue No. 1 — On the findings reached above, Issue No. 1 is decided in 
petitioner’s favour to the extent that the respondent and some of his supporters 
carried on propaganda on religious and communal lines which constitutes a corrupt 
practice defined in section 123(3) of the Representation of the People Act. 1951. 

230. Issue No. 2. — Though some supporters committed the corrupt p-aetiee 
defined In section 123(3) In furtherance of Amjad All's Interests in the election. It 
has not been proved that the result of the election has been materially affected 
thereby. This part of the issue was not pressed. The difference In the number of 
votes is so large that mere appeals on communal or religious grounds could not 
explain It away. Notwithstanding the spate and the virulence of the appeals on 
religious and communal grounds. Dhubri and Mankashar seats of the Legislative 
Assembly were bagged by the Congress. From Gaurlpur an independent candidate 
who is a Hindu was returned. South Salmara constituency recorded no change. 
Sahadat Ali the sitting member retained his seat. In these constituencies Muslims 
are admittedly in a majority. Apparently they were not all carried away by the 
propaganda with a sinister appeal. Even Golakganj seat has gone to the Con- 
gress Jahanuddtn Ahmed, a P.S.P. candidate was returned from Btlashtpara. 
Out of six seats from Dhubri Sub-Division the P.S.P. got only two The Congress 
secured three. An independent candidate secured the sixth. From Bhaidbari 
circle petitioner secured 352 votes against 118 votes secured by Amjad All. TWa 
Issue is decided against the petitioner. 

231. Issue No. 3. — The election of Amjad Ali— respondent to the House of the 
People from H.P. 38— Dhubri Parliamentary Constituency, is found to be void on 
the ground that he and some of his supporters with his knowledge and consent 
appealed to voters to vote for him and other P.S.P. candidates and to vote against 
Congress candidates on religious and communal grounds. This constitutes a 
corrupt practice which is defined in section 123(3) of the Act. The issue is decided 
in favour of the petitioner. 



■4f,c, 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ AG RAHAYANA 8, I88O2565 


232. Issue No. 4, — Issue No. 4 has not been pressed at all. There is no evidence 
<on this point and it Is answered In the negative. 

233. Issue No. 5. — This issue was pressed only against Jahanuddin Ahmed, 
Sahadat All, and Bibhuti Sarkar. The learned counsel for the petitioner does not 
urge that proof against others was adequate for a finding of a systematic appeal to 
voters on grounds of religious or communal, even though there was evidence 
against them also that on occasions they indulged in appeals on communal and 
religious grounds. Azad All, Baul Fazl were candidates. Santl Roy, Hussain All 
Pradhani were the supporters of the petitioners. There is evidence that they also 
contributed to appeals on grounds o£ religion. This evidence, however, even if 
taken at Its face value does not make out a case of systematic appeal against 
them. The case of Sahadat All is not different from the rest against whom charge 
of the corrupt practices is not pressed. 

234. Capt. Williamson Sangma, Shamsher All, Afazuddin Manda] were said to 
have been associated with the Bhaldbari meeting only. There is no evidence 
against Capt. Williamson Sangma about the commission of any corrupt practice. 
Evidence against the other two also Is not the best that should have been available. 
The charge against them was also not pressed very; rtghWy. 

235. Saiyed Ali was an independent candidate. He has not been shown to be 
an agent or supporter of Amjad All. There Is no proof that he did anything with 
Amjad Allis consent In furtherance of his election prospects. We are thus left 
with the cases of Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, and Bibhuti Sarkar. 

236. I have already recorded the findings that Amjad Ali and some of his 
supporters were guilty of the corrupt practice defined In section 123(3). After the 
completion of the enquiry against Amjad Ali argument was heard on 25th March, 
1958. It was ordered that notices shall issue to Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Sarkar under Section 99 to show cause why they should not be named, It was not) 
necessary to issue notice to Amjad All at that stage. He had fully cross-examined, 
petitioner witnesses and produced his defence. The other two namely— Jahanud- 
din Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar have shown cause. They have cross-examined a 
large number of witnesses. They have also examined some witnesses in defence. 
This additional material has been taken into consideration not only In favour of 
Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar, but in favour of Amjad Ali also. 

237. The evidence against all these has been summarised and fully discussed 
above. Amjad Ali deposed that at Fakiraganj, Jaleswar, Chunarl, Goalachar, 
Gaurlpur— Goahata Kachari Hat, Chappar. and Lakhiganj, he, Jahanuddin and 
Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the gatherings. He also deposed that on 17th February 
at Bengalipara and on 22nd February at Goalachar he and Jahanuddin Ahmed 
addressed the meeting. On 23rd February he and Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the 
meeting at Dharamsala. Both Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar are 
admittedly members of the P.S.P. and were supporting Amjad All. Jahanuddin 
Ahmed was a P.S.P. candidate for an Assembly seat and was as much interested 
in the contest as Amjad Ali himself. 

238. Jahanuddin Ahmed was a member of the Municipal Board, Dhubri for two 
terms and member of the Local Board for three terms. He was a member of the 
Legislative Assembly from 1937 to 1945. He was returned on independent ticket. 
After his election he joined the United People’s .Party with the late Sir Sahadulla 
as the leader. Later, Sir Sahadulla Khan and a majority of the United Peoples 
party joined the Muslim league. He followed the late Shrl RohinI Kumar 
Cheudhury after a break from Sir Sahadulla's party. In 1952 he stood on Socialist 
party ticket and was defeated. Umoruddin, an independent candidate succeeded. 
In the last election Jahanuddin Ahmed was a P.S.P. candidate from the Bllashi- 
para constituency. He was elected. He has supported Amjad Ali in regard to 
dates and places of meetings addressed by them together. He was convicted for 
alleged embezzlement, but was acquitted on appeal. He was also convicted for 
contempt of court. He was detained for a month under the Preventive Detention 
Act. At present a complaint, under sections 323 and 447 Is pending against him, 
his brother and his brother’s son. The complainant is his brother-in-law. Two 

tya sons are serving under the Pakistan Government. The Local Board was 
suspended when he was its chairman. 

239. He could give the name of only one person who ^sked questions at Gouri- 
pur He denied that other persons who asked question were P.S.P workers. He 
has stated that only Amjad Ali answered the questions. He was asked if he had 
stated in his written statement in Bazlul Basit case that different person answered 
the questions. He could not recollect if he had done so. 

240. Bibhuti Sarkar was in the Socialist wing of the. Congress before 1948. He 
•was a member of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee and suffered imprison- 
ment on the two occasions in 1930 and 1942. When Socialists broke away from 



2$66 the GAZETTE OF INDIA NOVEMBER LMM'DH; AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


the Congress in 1948 he also left the Congress. He has deposed that P.S.P. is si 
recognised national party. 

241. On his own showing he addressed meetings (1) at Fakiraganj, (2) Jales- 
war, (3) Chunnari and (4) South Salmara. On 23rd January he crossed over to 
the north bank. He was present in the meeting at Gauripur Goahata. On 7th 
February he went to Bilashipara with Jahanuddin Ahmed. He was again on the 
South Hank and toured that side from 17th February to 24th February. He attend- 
ed meetings at Chappar, Lakhiganj, and Bilaslpara Hat. He has denied having 
attended the meeting at Dharamsala, and thereby contradicted Amjad Ali on this, 
point. He deposed that he could not remember if he. opposed the candidature of 
J, Das for the Presidentship of Dhubri District Congress Committee before he 
came out of the Congress fold and denied the suggestion that he left the Congress, 
as he had failed to put his nominee in the position of the President of the Dhubri 
District Congress Committee. 

242. He admitted that when Amjad Ali spoke he. was doing so for all the partv 
candidates. They were agreed on the line of propaganda, issue of hand bills and 
the election manifesto. "■He admitted that Amjad Ali when speaking about the 
Assam Cattle Preservation Act said that a similar bill was sought to be moved in 
the Parliament and added that Amjad Ali did not express any opinion whether 
it was for the good of the Muslims or otherwise. He could not give the name of 
any person who asked questions about the Assam Cattle Preservation Act in the 
meetings in which it was admittedly discussed. He denied suggestions about 
appeals on religious and communal grounds. 

243. It is obvious from the statements of Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Sarkar that they were. Amjad Ali’s chief supporters. They have admittedly attend- 
ed most of the important meetings. Evidence, as to the utterances in the meeting 
is the same. On that evidence, when examined in the light of additional material 
placed on the record by or on behalf of Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Sarkar I have 
come to the conclusion that Amjad Ali and some of his supporters with his con- 
sent carried on propaganda in furtherance of his election prospects by telling the 
voiers to refrain from voting for the Congress candidates and to vote for the 
P.S.P. candidates on religious and communal grounds. The supporters who like 
Amjad Ali were, guilty of a systematic appeal on the lines stated above are Jahan- 
uddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar. Jahanuddin Ahmed a P.S.P. candidate was 
helping himself too. I have reached this conclusion notwithstanding some diffe- 
rences between the parties as to dates and places of some of the meeting. It has 
been urged that there were Hindu voters and therefore propaganda on communal 
grounds had its risks. It is common ground that four out of six constituencies of 
the Dhubri Sub-division which are parts of the Parliamentary constituency are 
muslim majority areas, and in the two others though muslims are in minority 
their members are very substantial. This is what the petitioner has deposed and 
there has been no serious challenge to this statement. In fact taking petitioner’s 
statement for granted it was argued that it was in one only out of the four muslim 
majority areas that a P.S.P. candidate succeeded despite allegations of communal 
and religious propaganda. Seeing the proportion of the Muslims in all these six 
constituencies taken together, there was no great risk for Amjad Ali if propa- 
ganda on the lines as alleged was carried on openly. The fact that only one out 
of four P.S.P. candidates secured a seat in muslim majority areas, has no hearing 
on the question that arises under Issues No. 1 and 3. If propaganda which falls 
under the ambit of section 123(31 was carried on in fact, there would be a corrupt 
practice, even though its purpose was not achieved. 

244. I think evidence on record leaves no room for doubt that all three Amjad 

Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, and Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar with Amjad Ali’s consent 
were guilty of a systematic appeal to voters to vote for the P.S.P. and refrain 
from voting for the Congress on grounds of community and religion in furtherance 
of Amjad Ali’s, election prospects, and were thus guilty or the corrupt practice 
defined in section 123(3). They have thus incurred the liability to be named 
under section 99. 

245. It has been pointed out on behalf of Jahanuddin Ahmed that the election 
petition against him abated. He was a party to Bazlul Basit’s petition. This 

S etition was dismissed by Shri B. C, Barua, Member, Election Tribunal, Gauhati. 

'e was not named. On the strength of these decisions it is argued that the ques- 
tion whether Jahanuddin Ahmed was guilty of the corrupt practice, which has been 
attributed to him in Bazul Basit’s petition could not be agitated afresh in this 
case. In other words, the contention is that Shri B. C. Barua’s decision operates 
as a bar to any finding adverse to Jahanuddin Ahmed on the charge hurled against 
him. The contention does not seem to me to be sound. Bazlul Basit was a candi- 
date for a seat in the Assam Assembly. His constituency was one out of the ten 



Sec. 3 (ii)j I THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29. 1958/AC.RAHAYANA 8, 1880 256.7 


constituencies which constitute the Parliamentary constituency fi'om which Amjad 
Ali and the petitioner were the candidates The two constituencies in question 
can not be identical in any respect. They differ widely in area and voting strength. 

246. The parties to the two cases are different and so arc the. issues. The 
evidence also is not the same. 

247. The jurisdiction of the two Tribunals is not concurrent. 

248. Shri B. C. Barua did not hold that Jahanuddin Ahmed did not commit any 
corrupt practice as a supporter to Amjad Ali. This was not the, question before 
him, 

249. The finding in that case was that there was propaganda of a communal 
or religious nature on the basis of the Assam Cattle Preservation Act in the main. 
The Funeral Reforms Bill and Ramdhun Geet were utilised in a subsidiary way. 

250. The learned Judge however, found that this propaganda was permissible 
in law. His view of the law is not binding on the parties to this case. I have, 
found it difficult to subscribe to it with great respect to him. Mr. Bose has not 
referred to any provision in the Statute or to any precedent in support of his 
contention that the decision in Bazlul Basit’s case constitutes a bar to a trial of 
ithe charge of corrupt practice against Jahanuddin Ahmed in relation to Amjad 
Ali’s election or that a different view from that which prevailed with Shri B. C. 
Barua is not possible for me to take. 

251. The anology of criminal cases is not apt. There is no question of 
acquittal or conviction. The issue before me is whether Jahanuddin Ahmed has 
been guilty of a corrupt practice as a supporter of Amjad AH. This has not been 
tried before. 

252. I see no substance in this contention. 

253. In the course of the argument Mr. Bose referred to section 140 of the 

Representation of the People Act- He seemed to apprehend that the finding 
against Jahanuddin Ahmed of having been guilty of a corrupt practice may 
result in the avoidance of hi s own election to the Assam Assembly. The finding 
has been arrived at upon the trial of a election petition under part VI. As a 
result he would stand disqualified for a period of six years from the date on 
■which the finding take effects for voting at any election under section 141 of 
the Act, The applicability of section 140 is also attracted. The same finding 
also entails a disqualification for membership of Parliament and the Legislature 
of any state for a period of six years commencing from the date the finding 
takes effect. The disqualification appears to me to be prospective and not 
retrospective in character. Jahanuddin should, therefore would be disqualified 
lor membership for six years from the date the disqualification operates. If 
disqualification is not removed he would not be eligible for candidature in the 
next election. Could it also result, in the avoidance of his election to the State 
Assembly? Under section 80 of the Act no election can be called into question 
except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provision of 
Part VI of the Act. A petition was so presented. It has abated. Mr. Bose's 
view seemed to be that this election should remain unaffected despite the 
disqualification which could attach to Jahanuddin Ahmed under section 140 of 
the Act. Though section 80 appears to support his contention there are other 
provisions of the Act which bear on the matter. It is not, however, necessary 
for me to give any finding on this question in this petition, and therefore, I 
refrain from pronouncing on it. Even if Mr. Bose’s fears were well founded I 
don’t see how I could decline to exercise jurisdiction in the matter 

which forms the subject matter of issue No. 5 or refuse to discharge 
my obligations under section 99 by giving findings which it is obligatory on an 
election tribunal to give. 

254. As a result of the findings recorded above, the election of Amjad Ali 
to the House of the People from H.P, 38 — Dhubri Parliamentary Constituency is 
declared void under section 98(b) read with section 100(b) of tfie Representation 
of the People Act. 

255. Mr. Lahiri has somewhat faintly argued that the peitioner be declared 
elected if election of Amjad Ali is found void. I have come to the conclusion 
that the election of Amjad Ali is void. But it does not follow that the petitioner 
becomes entitled to be declared that he wag duly elected. The election of Amjad 
Ali has been adjudged void on the grounds that he has been guilty of a corrupt 
practice. The petitioner has failed to show that the result of the election has 
been materially affected by reason of the corrupt practice committed. This 
relief, is refused. 



25681 HE GAZETTE Ol INDIA; NOVEMBER 29. 1958, ACRAHAVANA 8, 1880 [1 *mu II 


256. The parties to this case took up extreme position. They have not been 
able to substantiate all they alleged. The petitioner has succeeded on issues No. 1 
and 3, he has not succeeded on Issues No. 2 and 4. His success on issue No. 5 
is partial. I have also found it difficult to believe that Amjad Ali and his- 
supporters confined themselves to a discussion of the religious and communal 
matters only. That would be extremely improbable. Amjad Ali is in no better 
position. His case was that there was no appeal to voters on religious or 
communal grounds. The planks of his campaign attributed to him in this 
petition was totally repudiated. He had to admit that in some meetings at least, 
the Act came up for discussion, a concession which find no place in the written 
statement. His version was that propaganda on his side was limited to matters 
purely political or economic, has been amply disproved. He also has not been 
able to substantiate his case,. The main issue has been decided against him. 
But the propaganda carried on by Amjad Ali and his supporters was to a 
certain extent invited or induced by circumstances over which they had no- 
control, The Act which was passed in 1951 was given effect to just at the eve 
of the elections in 1956. It need not surprise any one if Muslims or a large 
section of them did not feel happy about it. Its controversial character cannot 
be disputed. The Funeral Reforms Bill thrown out in the Lok Sabha was an 
attempt of a similar character. The singing of Ramdhun Gect in some Schools 
with Muslim students and teachers could well have been resented by some 
Muslims as it actually was. Even as a song of prayer to God it may not appeal 
to Muslims except the very few liberal ones to adopt it for their prayers or to 
invoke God in the typically Hindus style. The combination of circumstances 
was such that it could evoke adverse criticism. It provided an extremely 
tempting approach in areas predominantly Muslim in character. 

257. Another circumstance of importance is that the law on the point, whether 
appeals on grounds of religion, community etc., when coupled with appeals on. 
matters which do not fall within the purview of section 123(3) constitute a 
corrupt practice. 1 have found that they do. Shri B. C. Barua even after the 
Supreme Court’s decision in 10, E.L.R. 120, has followed what he has described 
as the principle of the Bombay decision. Shri N. C. Chatterjee has relied on 
the Bombay decision before me. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court found 
section 123(3) intra vires on the assumption that it involved a conflict with the 
provision of the Constitution contained in Art. 19(1) (a), but they did not give 
their interpretation of the provision, In the circumstances the law as to the 
import of section 123(3) may not have been regarded as settled when the 
elections were held in 1957. The Respondent may have believed that the 
propaganda if it was not purely on religious and communal grounds, was not 
within the mischief of section 123(3), He may possibly have regarded the law 
as in a state of flux. In fact his conduct in relation to some documents produced 
by him in this case leads to the inference that at least at the early stages of 
the trial he contemplated giving evidence in justification of his criticism of the 
Act, the bill and the Ramdhun Geet. If this was his view even after the filing 
of the petition, his propaganda could be in the belief that there was justification 
for it. Considering the state of the law at the time and Amjad All’s conduct 
In relation to this trial, the possibility about an erroneous belief as to the correct 
legal position remains This could have been a contributory factor. These 
circumstances have a bearing on the question of costs as also on the exercise 
of powers of the Election Commission under sections 140A and 144 of the 
Representation of the People Act. I think in the circumstances aforesaid It is 
appropriate that the parties should bear their own costs, 

258. For reasons given above the election of Amjad Ali is declared void, 
under section 98(b) read with section 100(b), and Nazmul Haque, petitioner is 
not declared duly elected. 

259. Under section 99(1) I find that Amjad Ali himself, and Jahanuddin 
Ahmed and Bibhutl Sarkar, his supporters with his consent committed the 
corrupt practice defined in section 153(3). Th e names of all three are recorded 
under section 99(1). 

260. The parties shall bear their own costs. 

R. Labhaya, 
Member, 

Eelection Tribunal, Gauhatl. 

Dated Gauhatl, 

Dated the, 30th August, 1958. 


[No. 82/237/67/1195] . 
DIN DAYAL, Under Secy. 



Sf ' - :i (!•)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : NOVEMBER 29. 1 958/ AG RA HA YANA 8 , 1880 2^69 
New Delhi, the 20i/t November, 1958 

S.O. 2440, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
21 of the Representation of the People Act. 1951 (4,8 of 1951), the Election 
Commission hereby appoints the following four officers in addition to those 
appointed by its notification No. 424/6/56(1), dated the 7th January, 1957, to 
assist the Returning Officer for the Hoshangabad Parliamentary constituency in 
the performance of his functions, namely: — 

1. The Personal Assistant to Collector, Hoshangabad. 

2. The Sub-Divisional Officer, Hoshangabad. 

3. The Personal Assistant to Collector. Narsimhapur. 

4. The Sub-Divisional Officer, Narsimhapur, 

TNo. 434/6/68(1).] 
By order, 

S. C. ROY, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
(Department of Legal Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 20th November, 1958 

S.O. 2447. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that all contracts and agree- 
ments relating to the printing work of the Signal Training Centre, Jubbulpore, 
shall be executed on his behalf by the Commandant, Signal Training Centre, 
Jubbulpore, 


[No. F. 44(15)/58-J,] 
P. K. BOSE. Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi the 12 th November, 1958 

S.O. 2448. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, clause 
(b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services 
(Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby directs that 
the following amendments shall be made hi the Schedule to the notification of the 
Government of India' in the Ministry of External Affairs No, S.R.O. 21, dated the 
23rd December, 1957, namely: — 

In the said Schedule, — 

(1) in Part I, before the heading “Naga Hilla-Tuensang Area” In column 1 and 
the entries relating thereto In columns 2 to 4, the following heading and entries 
shall he Inserted, namely : — 



STATEMENT 1 


Secretariat 

Assistanr Information Officer 


Information Assistant 


Librarian, External Publicity Division 


Indian Missions ' Posts Abroad 
Assistant Press Attache 

Officer on Special Duty, Information 1 
Sendees of India, Cairo. j 

Information Assistant } 

Translator, Librarian and Editor, in | 
the Information Services of India J 

Central Passport Organisation 

Superintendent .... 


Secretary, Ministry of External Secretary. Ministry of External All 

Affairs. Affairs. 

Secretary. Ministry of External Secretary, Ministry of External All 

Affairs. Affairs. 

Director, External Publicity Divi- fi. to tiiti 
sion. 

Secretary, Ministry of External Secretary, Ministry of External All 
Affairs. Affairs. 

Director, External Publicity Divi- fi) to ■ iii ■ 
sion. 

Secretarv. Ministry of External Secretary, Ministry of External All 
Affairs. Affairs. 

Secretary, Ministry of External All 

Affairs. 

Secretary, Ministry of External Head of Mission'Post, if he is de- (ij to ! iii) 

Affairs. situated Head of a Department. 


Secretary, Ministry of External Secretary, ^Ministry of External All 
Affairs. Affairs. 


Chief Passport Officer. 


cn 


2570 THE GAZETTE OI> INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 195S/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [P\*T II 



(2) in Part II, before the heading "Naga Hills-Tuensang Area'* in column 1 and the entries relating thereto in 
the following heading and entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

Statement II 


columni 2 to 4 , 


Secretariat 
Lino Operator 
Printer 

Indian Missions; Posts Abroad 
Wireless Operator 

Publicity Organiser 


Central Passport Organisation 

Assislant; Upper Division 
Clerk ; Lower Division Clerk 
and Stenographer. 


'I Director, External Publicity Director, External Publicity Divi- All 
,> Division, Ministry of Ex- sion, Ministry of External Affairs 

J ternal Affairs. 


Director, External Publicity Director, External Publicity Divi- All 
Division, Ministry of Ex- sion. Ministry of External Affairs 

ternal Affairs. 

Officer of the rank of First Secre- (j) to (iii) 
tary or above or if there is no 
such officer, Head of Mission; 

Post. 


Chief Passport Officer 


Chief Passport Officer 
Regional Passport Officer 


Ail 


0 ) 


Secretary, Ministry of External 
Affairs, 


Secretary, 

Affairs. 

Secretary'! 

Affairs. 


Ministry of Externa 


Ministry of External 


Secretary', Ministry of External 
Affairs. 

Chief Passport Officer, 


Sect 8 fiiV] THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2!t, 1958/AORAITAYANA 8, 1880 3571 



(3) in Part III before the heading “Naga Hills-Tuensang 
the following heading and entries shall be inserted, nam 


i 2 


Indian Missions! Posts Abroad 

All Posts .... Under Secretary, Ministry of Ex- 
ternal Affairs. 


Central Passport Organisation 

All Posts .... Regional Passport Officer . 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 195B/AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 



Sec, 3 [ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ AGRAHA YANA 8, 1880 2573. 


New Delhi, the 1 9th November 1958 

S.O. 2449. — In exercise of the powers conferred, by clause (a) of section 2 
of the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948 (41 of 1948), 
the Central Government hereby authorises (i) Shri R. N. Chopra, Registrar, Office 
of the Commissioner for the Government of India in Mauritius, and (ii) Shri 
B. S. Gujral, Assistant, Vice-Consulate of India, Zahidan, to perform the duties 
of Consular Agents with retrospective effect from the 5th and 15th October 1958, 
respectively and until further orders. 

G. P. MATHUR, Attache (Cons.> 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 17 th November 1958 

S.O. 2450. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance No. F.4(46)-F.I/49, dated the 3rd 
August 1949, the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserve 
Bank of India, hereby declares that during the period upto and inclusive of 31st 
December, 1969, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 46 of the said Act shall 
not apply to the following banking companies, namely: — 

(1) The Chawla Bank Ltd. 

(2) The Colony Bank Ltd. 

(3) The Commercial Bank of India Ltd. 

(4) The Punjab & Kashmir Bank Ltd. 

(5) The Traders’ Bank Ltd. 


[No. F.4(l31)-BC/58.] 
D. N. GHOSH, Under Secy, 



department of Soosomic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 19th Novtmber 1958 


S. O. M5J — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India as on the i4th November 1958. 

Banking Department 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Capital paid up ...... 

5,00,00,000 

Notes ...... 

7,32,16,000 

Reserve Fund ....... 

80,00,00,000 

Rupee Coin ..... 

2,59,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) 
Fund ....... 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund . 

Deposits : — 

25,00,00,000 

3,00.00,000 

Subsidiary Coin ..... 

Bills Purchased and Discounted :■ — 

(a) Internal ..... 

(&) External ..... 

4,65,000 

(u) Government 


!.c) Government Treasury BiHs 

4, 68,64.000 

(1) Central Government .... 

6 3,33, 26,000 

Balances held abroad* .... 

18,32,54,000 

(2) Other Governments .... 

18,17,22,000 

“Loans and Advances to Governments 

22,25,37,°°° 

(i) Banks ...... 

79,88,20x00 

Other Loans and Advances^ 

58,28,24,000 

(c) Others 

1 r4>4S, 02^000 

Investments ..... 

302,52,26,000 

Bill* Payable ....... 

14,67,33=°°° 

Other Assets ....... 

10,14,58,000 

Other Liabilities . . . ... 

20,07,00,000 



Rupees 

423,61,03,000 

Rupees . 

423,61,03,000 


Dated the 19th November 1958. 

‘Includes Cash & Short term Securities. 

“Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments. 

tTbc item ‘Other Loans and Advances’ includes Rs. 96 00.000)- advanced to scheduled banks against 
usance bills under Section 17(4) (e) of the Reserve Bank of India Act 


2574 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part H 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the i 4 th day oi November 1958. 

Issue Department 


Liabilities 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking 


Department 

7,32,16-000 

Notes in circulation 

1585,92,40,000 

Total Notes issued . , 



Total Liabilities 


Dated the 19th day of November 1958 


Rs. 


Assets 


A. Gold Coin and Bullion : — 
(.aj Held in India 

ij6) Held outside India 
1593,24,56,000 Foreign Securities . 

Total of A 

B. Rupee Coin 

Government of India Rupee 
Securities 

Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other com merci al paper 

l 593 > 24 > 56)Ooo Total Assets 


Rs. Rs. 


1 17.76.03.000 

164,67,56 000 

2*2,43 <>9,°oo I 
136,08,26,000 • 
1174,72,71,000 I 1 

. 

I 

I' 

1 1 

1593, 2(,56,ooo ! 


H. V. R. Iengar, Governor. 

[No. F. 3!2)-F. W58.] 
A. BAKSI, JL Secy. 


Sec. 3 (|i)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 19.68/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 1B80 2575 



2576 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRA HAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


(Department of Revenue) 

ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1958 

S.O. 2452. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty chargeable under the said Act in respect of the following 
instruments executed by the High Commissioner for the United Kingdom in India, 
■namely : — 

(1) Lease deed dated the 10th October, 1958 in respect of ground floor flat 

at No. 107, Jorbagh, New Delhi. 

(2) Lease deed dated the 12th October, 1958 in respect of first floor flat at 

No. 13/39 Chanakyapuri, New Delhi. 

(3) Lease deed dated the 15th October, 1958 in respect of ground floor flat 

at “Parkview”, No 12, Nizamuddin East (Jaipur Plots) New Delhi. 

[No. 37.] 

G. S. SAWHNEY, Under Secy. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, BANGALORE 

Bangalore, the 19 th June, 1958 

S.O. 2453. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me under rule 233 of the 
-Central Excise Rules 1944, I hereby direct that every manufacturer of Vegetable 
non-essential oils within the jurisdiction of the Central Excise Collectorate, Mysore, 
shall within 15 days of the publication of this notification, maintain (1) a ‘Dip* 
Register in the form prescribed at Annexure ‘A’ in respect of oil stored in the 
bonded storage Tanks and (2) ‘Stock cards’ in form prescribed at Annexure ‘B’ in 
respect of oil packed in tins, barrels, etc, and stored in the Bonded Store room 
within the licensed factory premises. 

Annexure ‘A’ 


■ Records for dips taken 

Tank No. 

Dimensions 


Mds. 

Seers 

■Capacity 

. Calibration per inch. 


Tons 

Cwt. Ibs. 

Date 

Time Dip Quantity 

reading 

Receipt 
into the 
tank 

Issues 
from the 
tank 

Halance Remarks 

1 

2 3 4 

5 

6 

7 8 


Note : — (;) One page should be alluwcd for each tank for a month, 

(ii j Dip reading should be noted before and after each operation whether pertaining 
lo receipt or issue. 

[Hi) Only one operation either receipt or issue will he permitted at one time from a 
tank with minimum of 2 hours interval between each operation. 



SE€. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, Iflfi8/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 2577 

Annkxure ‘B’ 

Form of the stock card 

Stock Card No. : 

Name of the factory : L. 4, No. 

Description of goods : 


Date Opening Balance Receipts Issues Closing Balance 

No. of Net No, of Net No, of Net No. of Net. Remtrks 
tins or weight Lins or weight tins or weight tins or weight 

barrels barrels barrels barrels 

1 23456789 T0 


No re — -Separate stock cards should be maintained for each variety and for each size of container 
used. 

[No. 11/58.] 


D. N. KOHLI, Collector. 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE, CALCUTTA 

Central Excise 

Calcutta, the 17th. November, 1958 

S.O. 2454. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 233 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 read with Rule 227 ibid and in supersession of this 
office Notification No. 21/1957, dated thei 12th December, 1957 and all other orders 
on the subject it is hereby notified that for the purpose of assessment of unmanu- 
factured tobacco presented under item 91(5) (iii) of the First Schedulei of the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, the sieve should correspond to the specifica- 
tions indicated below: 


Sieve designation Width of Wire 

I.S. 460-1953 Aperture Diameter. 


100 0-0394' 0-023" 


. [No. 16/1958.] 
S. C, MATHUR, Collector. 


BOMBAY CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

Central Excise 
Bombay, the 31st October, 1958 

S.O. 2455. — In pursuance of Rule 197 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
I empower the Sub-Inspectors of Central Excise of Bombay Collectorate also to 
exercise the powers conferred under Rule 197 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 
within their respective Jurisdiction. 

This Notification modifies the previous Notification No. CER/233/T/1/57 dated 
the 10th January, 1957 to the above extent. 


[No. G.S.R. 197/T/3/58.] 
T. C. SETH, Collector. 



2578 THE GAZETTE of INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Pari 11 


OFFICE OF THE COELECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND LAND CUSTOMS’ 

BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

Bombay , the 19 th November, 1958 

S.O. 2456. — Whereas it appears that the marginally^poted goods which were 

— , - 1 seized by the S.R.P. party at 

List ottached. I a place called Kapas Temb 

- 1 In Kinare village on Gha 

border on 19th May 1958 being exported by land to Goa [Portuguese Territory in 
India) In contravention of Section 5(1) of the Land Customs Act. 1924 and the 
Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industries Export Control Order 
No. 1/54 dated 10th May 1954 read with their P.N. No. 4744 dated 23rd March 
1955 issued under the Import & Export (Control) Act, 1947 and deemed to have 
been issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878. Now therefore, any 
person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the D,v. Collector 
of Central Excise and Land Customs Bombay why the above mentioned goods should 
not be confiscated under Section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with 
Section 187(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and why a penalty should not be 
imposed on him under Section 7(1 )(c) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with 
Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878. 

If such an owner falls to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods 
or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from 
the publication of thl* notice In the Government of India Gazette/ , the 

goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 


Ircnii 1 ! f Seizure 


S. No. 


Description of goods 


Qty. 


1 . Georgette like sarees having flower design of different colours each of 6 yards 7 


2. Mysore sarees of j yards each ........ 2 

3- Rose colour georgette like surees having organdistrups of 5 yds. each 1 

4. Mysore type georgctic sarees of 5 yds. each ...... 2. 

5- Red colour georgette surer having flower design of Si yards each r 

6. Mysore type georgette like sarees of 5 yards , . 1 

7. Voil sarees having straps and flower design of 6 yards each 2 

8. Chit sarees of 6 yards each ...... 2 

9. Silk pieces of different colours of I yards each 8 

10. Silk pieces of i| yards each ....... 1 

il- Silk piece of 3 yards .......... 1 

12. Chit cloth pieces of I yd. each ........ 3 

13- Chit cloth pieces of ij yards each. ..... 2 

14- Voil chit cloth pieces of t yard each , . . 2 

J5- Chit cloth pieces of 3 yards each , , ...... 2 

ifi- White shirung of 3 yards piece j 

T7- White cloth piece of ii yards 1 

18. White cloth piece of 6 yards ... .... I 

19- Under-wear cloth piece having straps, 7 yards ..... 1 

20. Blue colour drill cloch piece of 3 yards ... ... I 

21. Pairs of chaddars . . . . 2 

22. Turkish towels ...... ... 2 

23. Blouses ..... ...... 4 

24- Silk blouses .......... 3 

25. Colton blouses .... ...... 2 

26. Sarins parkars of different colours ....... 7 

27. Childs suit ...... , . 1 

28. Small size sandow Banians ........ 4 

29. Small size coloured Banians ... 1 

30. Childs cap (Topade) .......... 1 

31. Child’s cup . . . ... 1 

32. Pijlow covers ..... .... 2 

33- Old turkish towel .......... 1 

34. old pant ............ 1 

35. Old Sarees ........... 3 



Sec. S (ii)] I THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 3579 


36. Tea powder j 

37. Coffee powder 

38. Photos with frames 

39. Trunk of green colour 

40. Emppy glass jar 

41. Dhane tCordiander seeds) 

42. Patri (mace) 

43. (Miri) Black pepers 

44. (Jirtt) comminseeds . 

45. (Halad) Turmeric 

46. (Velehi) Cardmom 

47. (LaWang) Cloves 

48. (Dalchinl) Cinnamon . 

49. (Badishep) Fennal 

50. (Methi) Foenugrcek grain* 

51. (Khaskhas) Poppy seeds 


2 bs. 
ilb. 

2 

1 

i 

£B. Mds. 

£ seer 
1 ” 

1 » 

1 « 

10 tolas 
■ £ seer. 

i „ 

1 » 

1 » 

1 » 


[No. VIII(b)10(175)Cus/58.] 


S.O. 2457. — Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 

seized by the Central Excise 
2 -B Mds .-30 Srs. “ ' * 

3950 . 

15 lbs. 

81 ba. 


1. Betelnuts 3 bags 

2 . 7 O'clock blades . . 

3 . Cloves .... 

4. Tow bags Cont aining — Mace 


Officer, Satarda at a place 
called 'Kalbachl Rai’ In tie 
jurisdiction of Ch. No. 17 St 
18 on 27th April 1968 were 
Imparted by land from Goa 
(Portuguese Territory in 

India) in contravention of Section 6(1) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 and 
the Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industries Import Contir" 
Order No. 17/55 dated 7th December 1966 issued under the Import & Export 
(Control) Act, 1947 and deemed to have been issued under Section 19 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878. Now therefore, any person claiming the goods Is hereby 
called upon to show cause to the Dy. Collector of Central Excise and Land 
Customs, Bombay why the above mentioned goods should not be confiscated under 
Section 6(3) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167(8) of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 and empty bags under Section 168 of the Sea Customs Act, 
1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under Section 7(1) (c) of 
the Land Customs Act, 1924 lead with Section 107(8) of the Sea Customs Act 
1878, 


If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of This notice in the Government of India Gazette, the 
goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 


[[No. VUE (b) 10(178) Cus/58 ] 


H. C. BAHRI, Dy. Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


New Delhi, the 1 9th November, 1958 

S.O. 245*. — In exercise- of the powers conferred by sub-clause (1) of Clause 5 of 
the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order, 1949. the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the Notification of the Government of 



2580 TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No, S.R.O, 1317 dated the 9th 
June 1956, namely: — 

In the said Notification — 

I. in item A of paragraph 3, for the figures, mark and word, "3/4" wide”, 

the figures, mark and word, “5/8" wide” shall be substituted; 

II. for the Note II below paragraph 5, the following shall be substituted, 

namely: — 

“Note II. — The specification of maximum distance between different sizes of 
hoops for bales of cotton piecegoods meant for export. 


Size of Hoops 

5/8" 

3/4" and 7/8" 

1' 

ii" 

Maximum'spacing 

4 " 

5 " 

6' 

7 " 

Where cross hoops are used depending on 
spacing shall be: 

the size of the bale the maximum 

Size of Hoops 

Maximum spacing 

3/4" and 7 / 8 " • 

10* 

j" 

12 " 

ir 

14" 


All the bales containing Dhoti es, Chaddars/Sheets, Pillowcases, Dusters and 
similar materials shall be bound with cross hoops. 


Hoops under 6/8" wide and thinner than 20s gauge shall not be used.” 

[No. TCS. II/l(7)/0O| 
[No. 25(26)-TEX(A)/57-»| 

S.O. 2459. — In exercise of* the powers conferred by sub-clause (1) of clause 0 of 
the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order, 1949, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the Notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Commerce No, 67-CW(25A)/48, dated the 20th March, 
1949. namely : — 

In the said Notification, in the Table appended to paragraph 2, for serial No. 2 
and the entries in columns 2 and 3 relating thereto, the following shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 


1 


z 


3 


“2 Where the average count of yarn used in the cloth is 17s or finer but less than Lower 
26 s, Medium 

2 A. Where the average count of yarn used in the cloth is 26s or finer but Jess Higher 

than 35s. Medium” 


[No. TCS.II/1(2)/58.J 
[No, 26(26)-TEX(A)/57-7| 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1958 

S.O. 2460. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1965 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Notification of the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S.R.O. 1150, dated 30th May, 1955, namely: — 

In the said notification, 

I in Form CST-D, 



(0 in Part I> for tbs heading* 


the foilowing shall be substituted, namely : — 


Lower Medium 


Higher Medium 


Superfine 


Variety 


Coarse 

Lbs. 

2 


(a) in Part II, for the headings and columns 

Medium Fine Superfine 

Lbs. Yds, Lbs, Yds, j ^Lbs. Yds. 
456789 


Fonts 

Lbs. Yds. 


Total 

Lbs. 


Yds. ” 
13 




258 a THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Pa*t H 




tfo) in Part IV, for the heading* and column*. 


Variety 


Coarse 

Civil 

Exports 

(a) fb) 


Mxtinm Fine Superfine 

Civil Exports Civil Export* Civil Exports 


Feat* Total Packing for 

Civil Export* (a -3-4-1 -<S) other 

CfvO Exports purpose* 

(a) fb) (a) (b) (a) (b) 

6 78 


the following shall be substituted, namely : — 
Variety Coarse Lower Medium Higher Medium Fine Superfine 


II. In form CST No, ‘E 1 , 

(t) in Part II, for the beading* and columns. 


Variety 


Coarse 

Yd*. 


Medium 

Yds. 

3 


Total Packing for 

12-3-4-5-6-7) others 

purposes 

8 9 


(a) (b) 

9 


S u pe rfin e 

Yds. 

5 


Sec. 3 («)] 



I 


2 


3 


Fine Superfine Totel 

Yds. Yds. Yds. 

5 6 7 


Superfine Total 

Yds. Yds. 


4 


75 


Fine Superfine Total 

Yds. Yds, Yds. 

4 5 1 


[No. 2(n)-Te* (A) /5S-1]. 
V- V NENEj Under Secy. 


2 5 84 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Past II 





Sic. 3 (njj THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, IR8O2585 


New Delhi, the 20 th November 1968 

S.O. 2461. — The following rules amended by the Hyderabad Oils and Seeds 
Exchange, Ltd., Hyderabad, in exercise of the powers conferred on it by sub- 
section (1) of section 9A of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 
of 1952), and approved by the Central Government are hereby published as 
required by sub-section (2) of that section, namely:— 

In the said Rules, — 

(1) For Article 60, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“60. The. Board of Directors shall consist of not more than fifteen 
directors inclusive of the President and Vice President and shall 
be constituted as under: 

(a) Ten directors shall be elected by the authorized representatives of 

members of whom seven shall be authorized representatives of 
members from the Dealers’ Panel and three shall be authorized 
representatives of members from the Crushers’ Panel, 

(b) Not more than four Directors appointed by the Central Government, 

one of whom to represent the Central Government and the others 
to represent interests not directly represented by membership of 
the Exchange, as set out in sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of section 0 
of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952. 

(c) Not more than one director, whether a member or not, co-opted by 

the Board, if it deems it fit and necessary.”; 

<2) For Article 62, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

”62(1). At the first Annual General Meeting of the Exchange to be held 
after these Articles come into force, all the elected directors shall 
retire and directors shall be elected in accordance with the pro- 
visions of clause (a) of Article 60. 

(2) At the subsequent Annual General Meetings, one director from the 

Crushers’ Panel and two directors from the Dealers’ Panel shall 
retire. The provisions contained in sub-section (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
of section 256 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), shall apply 
to the election of directors in place of the retiring directors. 

(3) The directors appointed fay the Central Government shall hold office 

for the period for which they are appointed. 

(4) The director co-opted by the Board shall retire at every Annual 

General Meeting along with the retiring elected directors”. 

[No. 33(25)-TMP/FMC/58.] 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 

S.O. 2462. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 26 of the Forward 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the powers exercisable by it under section 11 of the said Act may 
also be exercised by the Secretary, Forward Markets Commission, Bombay, 

[No. 32(17)-TMP/FMC/58.] 
K. V. VENKATACHALAM Jt. Secy. 

(Department of Company Law Administration) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd November 1958 

S.O. 2463. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Com- 
missions of Inquiry Act (No. 60 of 1952) the Central Government hereby extends 
upto the end of September, 1959, the period of time within which the Commission 
of Inquiry appointed by the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, 
Department of Economic Affairs by notification being S.R.O. 2993 dated the 
ilth December. 1956, as amended by the subsequent notification being S.R.O. 464 
dated 11-2-57, shall inquire into the matters specified in the notification first 
mentioned above and report to the Central Government. 

Ordered that the Order be published in the Gazette of India for public 
information. 

[No. 16(16)-Admn/58.] 
D. L, MAZUMDAR, Secy. 



(Indian avandarda hutitudom) 

New Delhi, the 17th November 1958 

S.O. 24*4. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marto) Regulations, 1955, 
die Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been establislied 
during the period 1st to 15th November 1958, 

The Schedule 


SL 

No, 

No. and tide of die Indian Standard established 

No. and title of the Indian Standard or Stand- 
ards, if any, superseded by the new Indian 
Standard 

Brief Particulars 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

I 

IS : 493-1958 Specification for Machinery and 
Spindle Oils (Amended) 

IS : 493-1954 Specification for Machinery and 
Spindle Oils 

This standard prescribes the requirements and 
the methods of test for machinery and spindle 
oils for various types of lubricating services 
to which these oils are employed. It does 
not cover oils compounded with fixed oils 
or soaps. (Price Re. i-oo) 

2 

IS : 1 175-195 7 Methods for Grading and Classi- 
fication of Muscovite Mica Blocks, Thins and 
Films. 

IS : 13-1949 Methods for Grading Processed 
Mica (Tentariue), and 

IS : 14-1949 Classification of Processed Mus- 
covite Mia ( Tentative ) 

(Both cancelled under S. O. 603 dated 26th 
April 1958). 

This Standard describes a standard system of 
grading and classifying muscovite mica block- 
thins and films according to size, visual qua- 
lities, and presence of structural imperfections 
(Price Re. 1 ■ 50) 


3 IS : 1180-1958 Specification for Outdoor Type 
Three-Phase Distribution Transformers Up 
to and Including too kVA 1 1 kV 


This standard covers the requirements and 
tests for oil-immersed, self-cooled, three- 
phase, double wound, outdoor type distribu- 
tion transformers, with Class A insulation 
of capacities up to and including too kVA, 
for use on systems with nominal voltages 
up to and including 11 kV and a frequency 
of 50 cycles pet second (Price Rs, 5' 00) 


2J86THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 




4 IS : 1183-1957 Specification for Density Hydro- 
meters for Use in Milk 


5 IS : 1247-1958 Specification for Handloom 

Cotton Madras Check 

6 IS : 1249- 19 58 Recommendations for Selection 

of Grinding Wheels 


This standard covers the requirements for den- I 
sity hydrometers for use in milk, adjusted I 
to indicate, density over a range 1-025 t0 
1 -©55 g-per ml and 1-015 to 1-025 g per ml 
when read in a liquid medium having a tem- 
perature of 27° C and a surface tension of 
50 dynes per centimetre, the reading being I 
taken at the intersection of the level liquid 
surface and the stem. (Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard prescribes constructional details 
and other particulars of handloom cotton 
Madras check. (Price Re. i-oo) 

This standard gives recommendations on the 
general considerations which should guide 
the selection of grinding wheels for different 
applications. (Price Rs. 2- 00) i 


7 IS : 1254-1958 Specification for Corrugated .. This standard covers the general and specific 

Aluminium Sheet requirements, such as profile, dimensions, 

finish, etc. for corrugated aluminium sheet 
meant for industrial building and general 
purposes. (Price Rs. 1-50). 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available, for sale, with the Indian Standards Institution, “MANAK BHAVAN”, 9 Mathura Road, New 
Delhi-i and also at its Branch Offices at (i) 40/40A Cawasji Patel Street, Fort, Bombay-i, (ii) P-11, Mission Row Extension, Caleutta-i and (iii) 2/21, 
First Line Beach, Mad ms- 1. 

[No. MDC/ii(4)] 


1 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, I958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 18802587 



2^88 THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAFIAYANA 8, ] 880 [Part TI 


New Delhi, the 21st November 1958 

S.O. 2465. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies that five licences, particulars of which are given in the 
Schedule hereto annexed, have been renewed lor a period of one year. 

The Schedule 


Period of Validity Name arid Add- Articlc/Process Relevant 

SI. Licence No, ress of the Li- covered by the Indian Standard 

No. and Date Prom To censec licence 


i CM/L-34 16-11-1958 15-11-1959 The National Hard Drawn 
4-11-1957 Insulated Cable Copper Solid 

Co, of India and Stranded 


a CM/L-35 Do. Do. 
4 - 11-1957 


Ltd., 67 Stephen Conductors. 
House, 

4 Dalhousic 
Square, Calcutta.-i. 


Do. Bare Anneale 1 
Copper Wire 


3 CM/L-36 Do. Do. 

4-n*i957 


Do. Hard Draw n 

Aluminium and 

Steel-Cored 

Aluminium 

Conductors for 

Overhead Power 

Transmission 

Purposes. 


4 CM/L -37 
4 - 11-1957 


16-11-1958x5-11-1959 The National 

Insulated Cable 
Co. of India 
Ltd., 

67, Stephen 
House, 4 
Dalhousie 
Square, 

Calcutta- 1. 


Rubber-Insula- 
ted Cables and 
Flexible Cords 
for Electric 
Power and Li- 
ghting (for 
Working Vol- 
tages Upto and 
Including 11 kV). 


IS: 282-1951 Specifi- 
cation for Hard- 
Drawn Copper Solid 
and Standard Circu- 
lar Conductors for 
Overhead Power 
Transmission Pur- 
poses ( Tentative ). 

15:396-1953 Speci- 
fication for Bare An- 
nealed High-Con- 
ductivity Copper 
Wire for Electrical 
Machinery and Ap- 
paratus ( Tentative ), 

IS: 398-1953 Speci- 
fication for Hard- 
Drawn Stranded 
Aluminium and 
Steel-Cored Alu- 
minium Conductors 
for Overhead Power 
Transmission Pur- 
poses ( Tentative ), 

IS:434-i953 Speci- 
fication for Rubber- 
Insulated Cables and 
Flexible Cords for 
Electric Power and 
Lighting (for Work- 
ing Voltages Upto 
and Including 
11 kV) ( Tentative ). 


5 CM/L-38 16-11-1958 15-11-1959 Do. 

4 - 11-1957 


Cotton-Covered 18:450-1953 Speci- 
High-Conduc- fication for Cotton- 

tivity Annealed Covered High Con- 

Round Copper ductivity Annealed 
Wire. Round Copper Wire. 


[No. MDC/12(105).] 

C. N. MODAWAL, 
Deputy Director (Marks). 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES & FUEL 
(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 2 0th November 1958 

S.O. 2466. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
4 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), the Central 


SEC. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ AGRA HA YANA 8 , I88O2589 


Government hereby appoints; Shri G. S. Jabbi, Additional Chief Inspector of 
Mines, as a member of the Coal Board with eil'cct from the 20th November, 1958 
vice Shri S. S. Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in India, proceeded on leave 
with from that date. 


[No. C5-1 (22) / 68.] 
CHHEDI LAL, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Deptt, of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi- 2, the 5th November 1958 

S.O. 2467. — In pursuance of the appropriate provisions of the Indian Cotton 
Cess Act. 1923 (14 of 1923), the Central Government are pleased to nominate the 
following persons to be members of the Indian Central Cotton Committee, 
Bombay, for a period of three years with effect from 1st April, 1958: — 


S. No. Name and address 


Section 


1. Shri K. N. Falaniswamy Gounder, M.L.A., Tlruppur . . . . 4(viii) 

2. Shri G. K. Devarajulu, Managing Agent, The Laksbmi 

Mills Ltd., Coimbatore. ,, 4(v) 


[No. 1-12/ 68-Com.II.] 
AJUDHJA PRASADA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 17 th November 1958 

S.O. 2468. — Dr. K. M. Gandhi, L.D.Sc., Dental Surgeon, Bombay, has been nomi- 
nated by the Government of Bombay as a member of the Dental Council of India 
under clause (e) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948) with effect 
from the 17th November, 1958. 


[No. F.0-7/58-M.I.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd November 1958 

S.O. 2469. — Dr. K. M. Singh, Additional Dental Surgeon, Patna Medical 
College Hospital, Patna, has been re-nomlnated as a member of the Dental 
Council of India by the Government of Bihar under clause (e) of section 3 of 
the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948) with effect on and from the 27th November, 
1958. | 


[No. F. 6-7/58-M.LT 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 8 th November 1958 

S.O. 2470, — In pursuance of clause (ii) of sub-rule (2) of rule 1 of the 
Indian Merchant Shipping (Load Line) Rules, 1934, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Norwegian Ships Classification Society ‘Det Nerske Veritas’ to be 



2590 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 

an Assigning Authority for the purpose cf the said Rules in respect of s.j. 
Jagjyoti— -O. No. 199129, registered in Bombay. 

[No. 42-MA(0)/57.] 
S. K. VENKATACHALAM, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RFHABIL1TATION 

New Delhi, the 21 st November 1958 

S.O. 2471. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hreto annexed in the 
State of Madhya Pradesh for a public purpose, being a purpose connected with 
the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensa- 
tion to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the said evacuee properties. 


Schedule 


SI. Particulars of the Name of the town and locality 

No. Evacuee Properties. village in which the property is Name of Evacuee. 

situated. 


I 

2 

3 

4 


Plot 

. Mama Ka Bazar, Lashkar. 

Munuru Khan Rahim Khan 

2 

Khander 

Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Abdul Majid 

3 

Patore ■ 

Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Babu son of Abdulah 

4 

Patore ■ 

Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Ramzan Ali Bux 

5 

Plot 

. Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Chote Khan son of Imam Khan 

6 

House • 

Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Ismail son of Nazir Humal 

7 

Khander 

. Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Imam Bux 

8 

Plot 

Kamigran, Gwalior 

Ahmad Sher Khan 

9 

House 

Gendiwrii Sarak, Lashkar. 

Chunc Khan son of Nathe Khan 

10 

Plot 

. Bada Kasim Khan, Lashkar. 

Mohmmad Sadik Hamal 

II 

House . 

. Tale Ki Bazaria, Lashkar. 

Hussain Beg son of Noor Beg 

12 

Plot 

Mama Ka Bazar, Lashkar. 

Wall Mohmmad son of Nabi 
Mohmmad 

13 

Plot 

. Bada Kasim Khan, Lashkar. 

Nathe Khan son of Rehman 

Khan 

14 

House . 

. Ingle Ke Goth, Lashkar. 

Wafati son of Pam. e Khan 

15 

Plot 

Hayder Ganj, Gwalior. 

Mohmodi Beg 

16 

House . 

. Mama Ka Bazar, Lashkar 

Farman Ali 

17 

Plot 

. Hayder Ganj, Gwalior 

Ahmad Nabi, Mohmmad Nabi, 
sons of Haji Ali dad Khan 

18 

House . 

. Hawaii Pichwara, Lashkar. 

Wazir Mohmmad 

19 

Khander 

Hawaii Pichwara, Lashkar. 

Shi 1 h dut Khan 

20 

House . 

. Thorat Ki Goth, Lashkar. 

Aziz Ahmad son of Hafiz Fazal 
Rehman 

21 

Two Houses 

. Chota Ki Bazaria, Lashkar. 

Azizul Rehman son of Haflzul 
Rehman 

22 

House . 

Chota Ki Bazaria. Lashkar. 

Ashraf Ali son of Asod Ali 

23 

Khandar 

. Near Gwalior Talkies, Lashkar. 

Illahai Bux 

24 

House . 

. Kasai Khana, Morar. 

Ali Bux son of Nabi Bux 

25 

House . 

. Bahra Santar, Morar. 

Mohmmad Din 

26 

Plot . . . 

. Tara Ganj, Lashkar. 

Shrimati Nasiban 

27 

Plot 

. Tata Gan), Lashkar. 

Rafiulah son of Niyaz Khan 

28 

House . 

. Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Wali Mohmmod Chidu Khan 

29 

House . 

. Loha Gath, Lashkar, 

Lai Khan 

30 

Khandar 

. Madi Ka Bazar, Lashkar. ■ 

Kadar son of Annu 

31 

Plot 

. Magalcshwar, Gwalior. - 

Yasin Khan 

32 

House . 

. Khatik Mohalla, Morar. 

Halka son of Chote 



Sec, 3 (ii)| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 3561 


I 

2 


3 

4 

33 

House • 


Fozdar Mohalla, Lashkar. 

Abdul Satar 

34 

House . 


. Danoli Lashkar. 

Illahai Shah 

35 

Plot 


■ BhawC Ka Bazar, Lashkar. 

Chote Khan son of Niyaz Khan 

36 

Plot 


■ Jiwaji Ganj, Lashkar. 

Mehboob Khan 

37 

Khandar 


■ Kampoo, Munshiyan, Lashkar. 

Gafar Satar 

3« 

Khandar 


Sindhe Ki Chawani, Lashkar. 

Nabi Sher 

39 

House . 


. Sarak Sana, Gwalior. 

Dayam Khan 

40 

House . 


, Jan ah Gary, Lashkar. 

Mehboob Beg 

41 

House 


• Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Harsu Gafur Bai 

42 

Houbc . 


Kasai Khana, Morar. 

Basarat son of Bulakhi 

43 

House . 


. Risala Bazar, Morar. 

Basarat son of Bulakhi. 

44 

House 


Bada Kasim Khan, Lashkar. 

Abdul Rashid Khan 

45 

Houbc . 


. Bala Bai ka Bazar, Lashkar. 

Syed Fathe son of Ali Syed 
Mohmmad Hussain son of 

Sadar Khan 

46 

House . 


. Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

47 

House . 


. Ramtspura, Gwalior. 

Niamat Ali 

48 

Khandar 


. Patpura, Gwalior. 

Najib Khan 

49 

House . 


. Naya Sarafa. Lashkar. 

Lukman Mohmmad Khan 

so 

House ■ 


Dholi Bhawa Ka Pul, Lashkar. 

Babu son of Niaz Mohminad 

51 

House - 


. Kotikar, Morar. 

Chand Khan 

52 

House . 


. Ghass Mandi, Gwalior. . 

Bashiram wife of Amira 

53 

House . 


Jamna Dai Morar 

Abdul Razak sor of Wali 
Mohmmad 

54 

House . 


Rathkhana, Madho Gan], Lash- 
kar. 

Mubarak Ali 

55 

House . 


. Fozdar Mohalla, Lashkar. 

Mari Begum 

56 

57 

House . 


- Khirki Mohalla, Gwalior. 

Mohmodali Beg 

House . 


- Hem Singh Ki Parade, Lashkar. 
Fozdar Mohalla, Lashkar. 

Ramzan Khan 

5& 

House . 


Ahemed Bishti 

59 

House . 


. Noor Gan], Gwalior. 

Chotcy Khan 

60 

House . 


. Naya Sarafa, Lashkar. 

Lukman son of Kaman Ali 

6l 

House .. 


Noor Ganj, Gwalior. 

Ibrahim- 

<2 

House . 


. Noor Ganj, Gwalior 

Roshan 

63 

House . 


Rampatpura, Gwalior 

Nahar Khan Rahmat Ullttb 

64 

Khandar 


Patpura, Gwalior. . 

Nahar Khan 

65 

HoUsc . 


. Tamna Dai, Morar. 

Dulpur, Morar. 

Sheikh Kallar 

66 

House . 


Wazira 

67 

House . 


. Naya Sarafa, Lashkar. 

Mohmmad Shall 

68 

House . 


- Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. 

Mohmmod Hussain Khan 

69 

House - 


. Tara GaD), Lashkar. 

Issmall 

70 

HoUsc . 


. Dholi Bua ka Pul, Lashkar. 

Baboo 

71 

HoUsc . 


Nava Sarafa, Lashkar. 

Ashrdjemi Shan 

72 

House - 


Mama Ka Bazar, Lashkar- 

Mnsammat Akhtari Begum 

73 

House . 


. Fojdar Mohalla, Danoli, Lashkar. 

Shrimati Gohar Jehan 

74 

HoUsc . 


. Madi Ka Bazar, Gwalior. 

Mohmmad Chote 


(No. i(l22o)/57/Comp. Ill/Prop.) 


RAJA LAL GUPTA, P.C.S., Under Secy. 


(Office ef the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1958 

S.O. 1472,— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), tie Central Government hereby confers upon Shri Kartar Singh, Assistant 
Custodian (Rural.) Delhi, the powers of Assistant Settlement Officer for the pur- 
pose of performing the functions assigned to such Assistant Settlement Officers 
by or under the said Act. 


[No. 8/51/5S-Adma.(R).] 




2 39 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 195 8/AGRA HA YANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


S.O. 2473. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (a) of sub-sec- 
tion (2) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilita- 
tion) Act No. 44 of 1964, the Central Government hereby appoints all Officers for 
the time being holding the posts of Managing Officer grade II under the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner, Lucknow, Jullunder, Delhi, Patna, Patiala and Indore 
as Managing Officers for the custody, management and disposal of Compensa- 
tion pool 


[No. 16(8)-Admn. (Prop)/68.] 

M, L. PURI, Settlement Commissioner 

& Ex-Offlcio, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 20th November 1958 

S.O. 2474. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by sub-section 
(1) of Section 8 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) 
Act, 1954 (44 of 1964) I, L. J. Johnson, I.C.S., Chief Settlement Commissioner, do 
hereby authorise Shri K. L. Anand, Assistant Settlement Officer, Rohtak, to make 
payment of compensation to displaced persons, out of the Compensation Pool, by 
transfer of allottable property or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1965 in addition 
to the Officers already authorised vide this Office Order No. F. 4(6) Comp-II/ 
57, dated 10th October 1967. 19th December, 1967, 27th February, 1968 and Orders 
of even number dated 22nd July, 1958, 9th August, 1958 and 28th October, 1958, 
respectively. 

[No. F. 4(6) Comp.il/67-Pollcy-I.] 


S.O. 2475. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by sub-section (1) of 
Section 8 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1964 
(44 of 1954) I, L. J. Johnson, I.C.S., Chief Settlement Commissioner, do hereby 
authorise the under mentioned Officers in the Bombay Region, to make payment 
of compensation to displaced persons, out of the Compensation Pool, by transfer 
of allottable property or otherwise, in accordance with the provisions of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955 in addition to the 
Officer already authorised aide this Office Order No. 4(6) Comp. IX / 57 , dated 27th 
February, 1958. 

1. Shri Narain Tejumal, Setttlement Officer, Bombay. 

2. Shri A. H. Malkani, Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

3. Shri Jamaitrai Gobindram, Settlement Officer, Rajkot. 

4. Shri R. L. Mansukhani, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

6. Shri K. C. Idiculla, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

6. Shri Chamanlal Punj, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

7. Shri K. S. Bhasin, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

8. Shri Devindra Nath, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

9. Shri C. J. Motwani, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

10. Shri S. A. Kaptan, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

11. Shri B, M. Telgeri, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

12. Shri Trilok Singh, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

13. Shri B, M. Kundani, Assistant. Settlement Officer, Bombay, 

14. Shri P. H. Jagtiani, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay. 

15. Shri J, C. Ahluwalla, Assistant Settlement Officer, Rajkot. 

16. Shri D, S. Sharda, Assistant Settlement Officer, Rajkot. 

[No. F. 4(6) Comp.II/57-Policy-IJ 
L. J. JOHNSON, Chief Settlement Commissioner. 



Sec. 3 |(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8 , I 88 O 2593 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 19 th November 1958 

S.O. 2476. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 10 
of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Ant, 1948 (46 of 1948), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 
1180, dated the 11th June, 1958, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry “(2) Raviansh Kumar”, the entry 
“(2) L. P. Sinha” shall be substituted. 

[No. PF-I/K1D/58.] 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1958 

S.O. 2477/PW/Mlnes/Rules/Am. 1. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) of section 26, read with section 24, of the Payment 
of Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1938), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendments to the Payment of Wages (Mines) Rules. 1956, the same 
having been previously published as required by sub-section (5) of the said 
section 26, namely: — 

In the said rules for sub-rule (2) of rule 6, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(2) Every such register shall be maintained in English or in Hindi or 
either in the language of the district in which the mine is situated 
or the language understood by a majority of persons employed in 
the mine.” 


[No. Fac. 49(19)/57.} 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 19 th November 1958 

S.O. 2478. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 

Present: 


Shri E. Krishna Murti, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal. 

3rd November, 1958. 

I, D, No. 155 of 1958 
Between 

The employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited. 

and 

Their workmen. 

Mr. Om Prakash Gupta — for the Bank. 

Messrs. H. L. Parvana, H. L, Pyri, and H. R. Khullar — for workmen. 

AWARD 

By GO, No. SO-LRII-10(2)/57, dated the 10th July, 1958, the industrial dis- 
pute, between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited, 
and their workmen, has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under 
Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. The term of reference is as follows: — 

Whether the bank employees, whose particulars are given below, should be 
treated as workmen’ or not for the purposes of the award of the All India 
Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Bombay constituted by the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O 35, dated the 5th 



2594™ GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Past II 


January, 1952. as modified under section 3 of the Industrial Disputes ( Banking 

Compe 

«ntltle< 

nies) Decision Act, 1955 (41 

I? 

of 1955), and also 

to what relief they are 

Serial 


Name of the employee 


Designation Where employed 

No. 






I 

Shri 

Haitians Lai 


. Accountant 

Central Office 

2 

33 

K. N. Bhandari . 



31 

3 

33 

M. L. Kampur . 



33 

4 

33 

G, L. Talwar 




5 


Sukh Dev . • . 



33 

<5 

»» 

M. R. Smi 


. Supervisor 

■ ■ 33 

7 

33 

Harikiihan Lai Kapur 


* 33 

11 

8 

» 

G. P. Gupta 


• 53 

33 

9 

55 

Sant Ram Chadha 


Accountant 

■ H 

10 

35 

K. K. Mehra , 


. Ch. Accountant . „ 

II 

35 

R. B. Saxena 



13 

12 


Baldev Rrishan Sharma 


. Accountant 

. . Dist. Manager. 

Pakistan Office. 

13 

53 

Chuni Lai Vijh . 



14 

55 

Sewa Ram 



Provident Fund Depit. 

15 

33 

Vijay Singh 


Supervisor 

■ 1 33 

16 

J> 

Ramii Lai . 


* 33 

33 

17 

J3 

Chirjit Singh 


. Accountant 

. . Staff Deptt. 

18 

3 3 

Shanti Nath Prasher . 


> 33 

33 

19 

33 

Abb Nand Dhingra 


* 33 

13 

20 

»5 

Krishan Kumar Chopra 


Supervisor 

- ■ 13 

21 

53 

Vcd Parkash Puri 



35 

22 

23 

35 

33 

Jagdish Chand Jaitly . 
Kamal Kishorc Kakkar 


. Accountant 
. Supervisor 

• * 33 

* ' 33 

M 

*3 

Mohinder Kumar Jain 


- 33 

33 

25 

33 

Gopi Chand Mahna . 
Shiv Narain Gupta 


• 33 

53 

26 

>5 



33 

27 

33 

Raiinder Nath Chopra . 


, Accountant 

. . Board & General Deptt. 

28 

33 

Bal Mokand Arya (§upr. on 

1-4-54) „ 

► • 35 

29 

53 

Chella Ram . . 



Branch Office Civil 





Lines, Delhi. 

30 

33 

Kundan Lai 

■ 

. Supervisor 

• • #3 

3i 

•3 

Jai Chand . 


. Head 

Cashier ,, 





(Supervisor cadre) 

32 

35 

D. D. Luthra 


. Accountant 

. Foreign Exchange 





Deptt. 

33 

35 

T. N. Chopra . » 

. 

. Supervisor 

• >1 

34 


S. R. S. Gulati . 




35 

35 

ABCharj Lai 


. Accountant 

, . D. M. Northern Circle. 

36 

33 

D. C. Kapur 


• 33 

33 

37 


Ram Lai Sharma 


♦ 33 

33 

38 


Roshan Lai Kapoor . 



33 

39 

*5 

Kesho Lai Agarwal 

Kuldip Raj Chopra 


’ „ 33 

. Northern Circle. 

40 

35 


* >3 

33 

41 


H. K. Das Sharma 


. Supervisor 

■ • 35 

42 


R. S. D. Malhotra 



33 

43 

33 

Raj Rup Singh . 


. Accountant 

. Loans Deptt. 

44 

33 

P. N. Malhotra . 


* 33 

33 

45 

» 

Ram Kjshan Madan . 


* 33 

33 

46 


Tara Chand 


. Supervisor 

33 

47 


Satya Paul Khanna 


‘ T 

48 


M. L. Dhawan . 


. Accountant 

. . Inspection Deptt. 

49 

33 

N. N Uppal 


* 33 

33 

50 


B. L. Talwar . 


" 33 

33 

51 


M. L. Mehra 


* 33 

33 

52 


R. S. Tandon 


* 33 

33 

33 


R. N. Chopra 


■ 33 

53 

54 

33 

M. L. Aggarwal 


* 53 

13 

55 


K. L. Kapuria . 


' 33 

33 

56 


Y. N, Awwthi . 


* 33 

33 

57 


T. N. Mehrotra . 


• 15 

35 

5§ 

33 

H. S. Giani 


* 3J 

33 





Sec. 3 (|i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1938/ACRAHAYANA 8 , I 88 O 2595 


Serial Name of the employee Designation Where employed 

No. 


59 

Shri 

Dharam Vir Kehar 

• 

Accountant 

D.M.U.P. Circle’ a 

Office. 

60 


Ghanshyam Swarup . 


33 

33 

6l 


Madan Lai Khosla 


35 

33 

62 


Behari Lai Kanwara . 



31 

<53 


Mittcr Bilas 


33 

33 

64 


Ved Parkash 


* 31 

33 

65 


Harbans Lai Anand 



33 

66 


Ram Rup Chaturvedi . 

. 


33 

67 


P. C. Kochhar ■ 

. 


33 

68 


Amrit Lai Proothi 


• Offg. Acctt. . 

33 

69 


P. L. Khosl® 


. Accountant 

33 

70 


Ram Lai Ramdas 



Law Department. 

7i 


Mehr Chand 



33 

72 


Devi Chand Suri 


Accountant 

33 

73 


Lajya Ram Aggarwal . 


* 33 

33 

74 


Madan Lai Kapahi 



D.M. Central Circle’s 
Office, 

75 


Shri Lai Manchanda . 


33 

76 

33 

Krishan Lai Shaima 

■ 

« 33 * ' 

33 

77 


Kashi Nath Vali 



1 

78 


Vishwa Mitter Mehta . 




79 


Ram Rlchhpal 



31 

so 


Girish Chander Srivastava 

. 



81 


Roshan Lai Puri 

. 



82 


V. P. Kheahtrapal 

* 

. Supervisor 

■ Economic Section. 

83 


J. C. Chopra 

. 

. Accountant 

Property Deptt. 

84 


Sohan Lai ■ 

♦ 

. Supervisor 

Stationery Deptt. 

■8S 

33 

Amar Nath Gupta 

* 


M J 

86 

33 

Hans Raj Puri 

' 

. Accountant . 

Brancn Office, 
Chandni Chowk. 

87 

’3 

Ved Parkash Wadhwa 


• 1 1 


88 

,, 

Hem Chand Jain 




89 


Chandar Shekhar 





S, 

N. B. Rhatnagar 


, Supervisor 

* 33 

9i 


Balu Ram • 




-92 

31 

Satcharan Serh ■ 


* 33 

33 

93 

' 13 

Ram Niwas 



33 

94 

,, 

Ganga Ram Seth 



33 

95 

13 

Ascharjlal Kumar 



33 

96 

3 1 

Birbal Chopra . 


* 73 

33 

97 


Banwari Lai 




98 

33 

Dharampal Mehta 




99 


Gurbax Singh 


Office Supervisor 

* 33 

’100 

?3 

Ram Dhan 




101 

3 1 

Shamsunder Khanna , 




102 

, , 

Sita Ram ■ 




103 


Sham Lai . 


. Supervisor 


104 

, , 

Ram Narain Kohli 


Teller ■ 


105 

” 

Badrinath Sharma 


Supervisor 

. Branch Office Chandni 
Chowk. 

io6 

37 

A dish war Prasad 


. Cashier Incharge 

• 33 

107 

3 3 

Ram Labhaya Kapur . 


. Accountant 

. Sadar Bazar Branch. 

108 


Prem Nath Kapur 




109 

33 

Om prakash Chopra . 


. Supervisor 


no 


Ravindar Nath Malhotra 




III 


Govcrdhan Daaa Luthra 




1 12 

33 

Lakshmi Chand Gupta 


33 


113 

13 

Dulichand Gupta 


. Asstt, Manager 


xi 4 


D. R. Madhok . 


Minto Road Branch 

115 


K. N. Iyer 


. Accountant 


Il6 

13 

R. L. Anand 


. Supervisor 


117 

37 

R. P. Garg 




ll8 


M. L. Wadhwa . 




119 

33 

D. R. Chabar 


» 

3» 



2596 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


Serial "Name of the employee Designation Where employed 

No. 


120 

Shri Bhola Nath 



. Supervisor 

Minto Road Branch 

121 

33 

M. L, Bhalla . 



* 33 

S3 

122 

33 

P. S, L. Narayanam 


f 

' 33 

SJ 

123 

Si 

Ramlal Sun 



. Accountant 

Subzlmandi Branch, 






Delhi. 

124 

ti 

Pannala] 



. Supervisor 

33 

125 

S3 

Durga Dass Puri 



* 33 

33 

126 

Si 

Kishorilal Puri . 



' 33 

33 

I2 7 

si 

Balraj Madhus . 



* 35 

33 

128 

129 

it 

)S 

Lekh Raj Suteja 
Jaswant Rai 



* 33 

' 33 

33 

II 

130 

Si 

T. N. Chopra . 



. Accountant 

. Kashmiri Gate Branch 




. 

Office. 

131 

a 

Inderjit Gombu . 



. Supervisor 

* 33 

132 

>3 

R. M. Mehta 



* Ji 

33 

133 

Si 

B. D. Gupta 



’ 31 

33 

134 

93 

Jas Raj Chona , 




33 

135 

33 

K. L. Manchanda 



* j) 

33 

136 

33 

Gauri Shanker Mehra 



. Accountant 

. Regal Bug. Branch. 

137 

33 

Bharat Prakash . 



. Supervisor 

* 33 

138 

33 

Sada Nand Sapra 



. Supervisor 

• 33 

139 

33 

Dharambir Banga 



• » 

33 

140 

33 

Indcrsen Minochn 



Accountant 

. Naya Bazar Office. 

141 

33 

Kishanlal Kharbanda 



. Supervisor 

33 

142 

33 

Som Datt . 



' 33 

33 

143 

33 

R. K. Bhanot 



* 33 

Tropical Building. 

144 

33 

Mangal Das 



* 33 

33 

145 

33 

K. S. Puri 



1 33 

33 

146 

33 

G. L. Sachdev . 



. Custodian Safe 

is 

147 

n 

J. R. Chopra 



Deposit Vault. 

. Accountant . 

■ Ajmere Gate Ejctn, 




Branch. 

148 

33 

Dev Raj Vig 



4 >3 

33 

149 

3 

Jai Kishan Garg 



. Supervisor 

■ 33 

150 

33 

Ram Gopal Malhotra 



' 3 3 

33 

. Fountain Branch. 

151 

33 

B. K. Marwaha . 



. Supervisor 

152 

33 

Maya Rum Aggarwal 



■ 33 

33 

153 

33 

H. S. Sehgal 



' 33 

33 

154 

33 

Shamsundcr Talwar 



• Si 

3J 

155 

33 

Indcrsain Mincho 



, Accountant 

. Jangpura Branch. 

156 

33 

Som Nath Ahuja 



■ Supervisor 

33 

157 

33 

M. Mohanial Chopra 



Accountant 

. Lodi Road Office. 

158 

Mrs, Shobha Rain 



. Supervisor 

1 33 

159 

Shri K. L. Agarwal , 



. Accountant 

Gurdwara Road Office 

160 

33 

Hari Singh 



* 33 

J 3 

161 

33 

P. K. Gupta 



■ Supervisor 

' 33 

162 

33 

S. P. Jain . 



* 33 

’3 

163 

Ar 

S. L. Sama 



* 33 

33 

164 

Raja Ram Khannu 



. Asst. Manager 

. Daryaganj Office. 

165 

33 

H. D. Sriwastava 



Accountant 

1 3 J 

r66 

33 

R. K. Mahk 



. Supervisor 

33 

167 

33 

Ram Titrath 



1 33 

33 

168 

33 

Sada Nand . 

* 

- 

Asst. Manager 

Queensway Branch 
Office. 

169 

33 

Mohanial Huria , 

• 

■ 

. Accountant 

j, 33 

170 

33 

Hari Chand Sharma 

- 

• 

Supervisor 

3J 33 

171 

Mr. 

Harbans Lai Malik 



. Accountant . 

Khsri Baoli Branch 






Office, 

172 

33 

S. N. Shivpuri . 


• 

Supervisor 

' 33 33 

173 

33 

V. D. Vilj , 



* 33 

33 

174 

33 

Harkishanlal Bhatia 



■ 33 

33 

175 

33 

Amar Nath Mehta 



* 33 

33 

176 

33 

Shantilal Malik 



* 33 

33 

177 

33 

T, N. Vohra 



. Accountant . 

Chowri Bazar Branch 

178 

33 

Suraj Narain 



. Supervisor 

33 



Sec. 3 <ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8 , I 88 O 2597 


Serial 

No. 


Name of the employee 

Designation 

Where employed 

179 

Mr. Yudhvirshtar Lai . 

. Supervisor 

. Chawri Bazar Branch 

180 

33 

Day Nan,d .... 

* 33 

33 

181 

J) 

K. S. Bharati 


33 

182 

33 

Joti Frashad 

Accountant 

♦ 33 

183 

33 

Banarsi Das Gupta 

* 33 

33 

184 

33 

B. C. Bansal 

• 33 

Pahargan) Branch. 

185 

33 

L. R. Vali .... 

. Supervisor 

* 13 

186 

33 

A. D. Sabharwal . 

. Accountant 

. Bank Street Karol- 
bagh, Branch. 

187 

33 

R. C. Aurora 

. Supervisor 

33 

188 

33 

ftajinder Ajmui . 


33 

189 

33 

Deshpal Chopra ■ 

* 33 

Clock Tower Delhi. 

190 

33 

J. D. Jain .... 

• 33 

33 

191 

33 

K. C. Garg 

33 

33 

192 

33 

S. D. Sachdeva . 

. Accountant . 


i93 

33 

B. N. Gulati 


Patelnagar Office. 

194 

Shri 

Sat Pal Verma 

. Supervisor 

. Khan Market, Karol- 
bagh, Branch. 


3. The case of the workmen is that the 194 employees of the Bank, whose 
names are given in the Schedule to the reference are all workmen, who are 
\ entitled to the benefits under the Bank Award, that the employees, designated as 

Supervisors, Accountants, Assistant-Managers, and Departmental Incharges are 
called upon to discharge duties of higher clerical nature, that they do routine 
work, making calculations, comparing and checking the work done by the junior 
clerks, that they havei been mostly drawn from the lower clerical ranks, that 
these several categories have been carrying on clerical duties, that despite the 
requests and representation of the employees concerned through their Union, the 
management dia not implement the provisions of the Bank Award in the case of 
Supervisors and Accountants, that the management intended to evade implei- 
mentation of the Award in respect of these categories by introducing better 
grades and better scales of pay, that a number of Supervisors and Accountants 
were forced to declare in favour of the scales of pay, and the other conditions 
offered by the Bank, that all the employees in question should be held to be 
“workmen", and all the benefits under the Award should be allowed to them. 

4. The contention on behalf of the Bank is, that it is not a fact, that the 
clerical staff includes Supervisors and Accountants, and that they perform duties 
of a higher clerical nature, that clerical work is done by the clerks working 
under the Supervisors and Accountants, and the Supervisors and Accountants 
supervise the work of those, who are placed under them, that the test of 
directional and controlling power had been regarded as of doubtful validity, that 
the Bank had not violated any provisions of the Bank Award, that the circular 
dated 18th April, 1957 is self explanatory, that it is not true, that the manage- 
ment have tried to evade the implementation of the Award, that there is no Bar 
to the introduction of categories of officers, and separate pay-scales and service 
conditions for the same, that it is not true, that any of the employees in the 
terms of reference was put to any pressure or coercion, that a number of 
employees, whose, names are mentioned in the list, marked Annexure C, have 
withdrawn their case, that no dispute arises in their case, that the Bank is prepared 
to cover such of those employees as wish to be covered by the Bank Award, that 
it is not open to such of the workmen, as opt for the Bank scales of pay and 
conditions of service for officers, to claim to be governed by the terms of the 
Bank Award, and that there are no merits in the claim of the workmen, 

5. The following issues were framed: — 

(1) Whether the Bank employees, mentioned in the order of reference, are 

“workmen” within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act? 

(2) Whether the i=aid employees are entitled to relief, and Service 

Conditions as per the Bank Award? 

(3) Whether there is no industrial dispute at all in respect of certain 

Employees of the Bank, as contended by the management? 




2598™® gazette or india: November 29, 1958 /agrahayana 8, 1880 [Part ii 


(4) Whether the management is entitled to ask the employees to choose 

and exercise their option in regard to the conditions of service, as 
in the Bank Award, or according to the conditions of service erf the 
Bank? 

(5) To what relief are the employees in question under the reference 

entitled? 

Issues No. 1 to 3— 

6. This is a dispute, between the employers in relation to the Punjab National 
Bank Limited, and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule. There are the names of 194 employees contained in the order of 
reference, 

7. Originally a statement of claim was filed by the All India Punjab National 
Bank Employees Federation on behalf of the workmen. Subsequently, the 
Association of the Punjab National Bank Employees filed a petition to be 
impleaded as a party to the reference on the ground, that the said Association 
also represented some of the employees. The said Association was impleaded 
as a party to these proceedings by order dated 11th September 1958, and a claim 
statement was also filed by the said Association. 

8. Both the Association and the Federation have put-forward identical con- 
tentions in this matter. 

9. The point, that arises for determination in this proceeding, is, whether the 
employees, whose particulars are given in the order of reference, should be. 
treated as “workmen” for the purpose of the Award of the All India Industrial 
Tribunal (Bank Disputes), and also to what relief they are entitled. 

10. According to the case of the Union, all the employees, whose names are 
mentioned in the order of reference, are “workmen”. It will be noted, that some 
of them are designated as Accountants, Supervisors, Assistant Managers, etc. 
The case of the workmen is, that, in spite of their being known by this designation, 
they are “workmen” within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, and that 
they are entitled tp take advantage of the provisions of the Sastry Award, in 
relation to Bank Disputes. It i s asserted on behalf of the workmen, that these 
various employees designated as Supervisors, Accountants, Assistant Managers. 
Departmental Incharges, etc, are called upon to discharge duties of a higher 
clerical nature, that they do routine work, making calculation, comparing and 
checking the work done by the junior clerks, that these employees are drawn 
mostly from the lower clerical ranks on the basis of merit, and that, in these 
circumstances, they are all “workmen” within the meaning of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, and entitled to take advantage of the provisions of the Bank Award. 
It is the case of the workmen, that the Bank is trying to evade the implementa- 
tion of the Award so far as these workmen are concerned. Ext. W/3 has been 
produced as a copy of the representation made to the management dated 28th 
April, 1950 on behalf of a number of Accountants, Supervisors, and other 
employees of the Bank in this connection. 

41. The contention of the Bank, is, that it is not a fact, tnat clerical staff 
includes Supervisors and Accountants, or that they perform duties of a higher 
clerical nature. It is urged before me, that the Bank Award merely lays down, 
that, when any particular employee is doing clerical work, and can be classed 
as a' clerk, such employee must be given pay and allowances as fixed under the 
Award. It is denied, that the management ever tried to evade implementation of 
the Sastry Award in the matter of its application to any category, governed by it. 

12. At the time this matter came on for trial, both parties dispensed with 
oral evidence, and contented themselves by filing documents only. 

13. On behalf of the workmen, the memoranda. Exts. W/l and 2, were filed in 
this connection. 

14. During the pendency of this dispute, a number of letters were received by 
this Tribunal from various employees of the Bank, intimating, that they had no 
dispute with the Bank, and that the matter mav be dropped so far as these 
individuals were concerned, The Bank has filed a memorandum, Ext. M/3, It is 
alleged therein, that ninety (90) persons havei withdrawn their case, and no 
dispute subsists in regard to them. The names of these 90 persons are contained 
in Annexure C, which is annexed to this Award. It is further mentioned by 
the Bank in the said memorandum, Ext/ M/3, that, if any one of these persons, 
with the exception of the 10 persons, whose names are found below, were to 



Sec. 3 (ii)] 'THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29. 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 18^)3599 


come-forward before this Tribunal and repudiate the withdrawal, the Bank would 
have no objection to the implementation of the> Award in their case: — 

"11. K. B. Saxena. 

22. J. C. Jaitly. 

29. Chela Ram. 

35. Ascharaj Lai. 

67. P, C. Kochhar. 

78, Vishwa Mitter Mehta. 

114. D. R. Madhok. 

146. G. L. Sachdeva. 

164. Rala Ram Khanna. 

183. Banarsl Dass Gupta." 

In proof of the fact, that the 90 persons, whose names are found in Annexure C, 
have withdrawn from this reference, the letters written by them have been 
marked. Those contained in the file, Ext. M/2, which number 80, were received 
by post by this Tribunal direct. The remaining 10 sent the letters contained In 
the file, Ext. M/1, direct to the Bank. We have thus 90 letters from the several 
individuals mentioned in the Annexure C. Each employee has intimated in the 
said letters, that, as he had no dispute with the Bank in respect of this pro- 
ceeding, he requested, that the Tribunal may drop the matters in his case*. None 
of these persons, who sent the letters contained in Exts. M/1 and 2, came-forward 
to repudiate these letters, and state, that they are pressing the claim. Even 
though there is an allegation in the statement of claim filed by the Federation, 
that the Bank induced these employees to give such letters, as a result of pressure 
and coercion, there is nothing on record to prove, that these letters were given 
by the respective employees otherwise than of their own free will and accord. I 
find, that, bo far as the £0 employees, whose names are found in Annexure C 
attached to this award are concerned, there is no dispute between them and the 
Bank, and that no question arises for determination m this proceeding so far as 
these individuals are concerned, and that the matter is dropped as per their 
request. 

15. The next contention on behalf of the Bank is, that 55 persons, whose names 
are found in Annexure B, desired implementation of the Award, and that the 
Bank had already agreed to the same, Thus the Bank has admitted, that these 
55 persona, whose names are found in Annexure B. are "workmen”, and that 
they are entitled to the benefits of the Award, I find, that the 55 employees, 
whose names are found in Annexure B, are "workmen”, that they are entitled to 
the benefits of the Award, and that the Bank has been willing to implement the 
Award in their case. If in respect of any one of these the Bank Award has not 
been implemented, that is a matter to be separately taken up by them in inde- 
pendent and appropriate proceedings. 

16. The next question is with reference to the rest of the workmen. 

17. In the written statement of the Bank it is alleged in paragraph 25, that 
Shri Sada Nand, No. 168, in the list, is Assistant Manager, and is performing 
duties of a managerial nature, thereby implying, that he was not a workman. 
But in Ext. M/3 paragraph 3 it is stated, that Shri Sada Nand (No. 168) desires 
implementation of the Award, and that the Bank agreed to the same. I find,, 
that Shri Sada Nand is a "workman”, and that he is entitled to relief as per the 
provisions of the Bank Award. 

18. Nexfly, it is alleged in paragraph 25 of the written statement On behalf 
of the Bank, that Shri K, K. Mehra, No, 10,- was a Chartered Accountant, that he 
is not a "workman" according to the Industrial Disputes Act, that he resigned 
his job in the Bank, and is no more in the Bank’s service. There is no "evidence 
on his behalf, and there is nothing to prove, that he is a "workman". I find, 
that there is no satisfactory proof, that Shri K.. K. Mehra is a "workman”, or 
that he is entitled to the benefits of the Bank Award, or to implementation of the 
said Award against the Punjab National Bank Limited during the time he was in 
service under the said Bank. 

19. Nextly, it is alleged, that employee No. 102, Shri Sita Ram is a clerk, and 
Is covered under the Bank Award. There is no dispute about him, and he is 
a “workman”, and is entitled to relief -and all benefits arising under the Bank 
Award. 



26oO the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


20. It has next been pointed out, that employee No. 140, Shri Indersen Minocha, 
is the same as No. 155. We find the name of this employee. No. 140. in the list, 
Annexure C. He has withdrawn from the dispute, and no question arises so 
far as he is concerned in the same way as the others, whose names are found in 
Annexure C. 

21. So far as the rest of the employees found in the list attached to the order 
of reference, with the exception or those above referred to, are concerned, it Is 
stated in Ext. M/3, that regarding the rest of the employees, the Bank is prepared 
to implement the Award, 3 they so choose. Among these employees, Nos. 32 and 
41, namely Messrs. D. D. Luthra, Accountant and H. K. Das Sharma, Supervisor, 
are stated to have resigned their jobs, and are no more in the service of the Bank. 
Employee No. ISO, Shri Hari Singh, Accountant, is said to have retired. So far 
as these various employees, including S. Nos. 32, 41 and 160 in the order of 
reference, are concerned, the Bank is willing to implement the Award, if they 
wish implementation of the same. I find, that all the other employees, referred 
to above, are "workmen”, and the Bank shall treat them as ^'workmen”, and 
implement the provisions of the Award in their case. I find accordingly on the 
above issues. 

Issue No. 4 — 

22. In view of my findings, as above, that most of the employees are workmen, 
that they have been recognised as such by the Bank, and that the Bank is willing 
to implement the Award in their case, with the exception of those, whose names 
are found in Annexure C, who do not want any adjudication in this proceeding," 
but want the matter to be dropped, this issue, raising the question, whether the 
management is entitled to ask the employees to exercise their option in regard to 
their being governed by the terms of the Bank Award, does not arise. In para- 
graph 33 of the claim statement of the All India Punjab National Bank Employees^ 
Federation it is stated as follows: — 

"It is further prayed, that the employees, who have been given better 
scales of pay of Bank's own volition, should not be deprived of such 
better grades, and others, who have not been allowed such scales of 
pay, should be allowed.” 

Exception has been taken on behalf of the management to this prayer of the 
Union. It is argued, that it is not open to the workmen, covered under the Award, 
to opt for Bank s scales of pay for officers, and at the same time be governed by 
the terms and conditions of service as prescribed under the Award. The order 
of reference deals with the question, whether the various employees, whose parti- 
culars have been given, should be treated as "workmen” for the purpose of the 
Bank Award. The questions, raised by the workmen in paragraph 33 of the 
statement of claim, are outside the terms of reference, and they are not anciliary 
or incidental thereto. I find, that the claim, put-forward on behalf of the work- 
men in paragraph 33, as stated above, is outside the scope of the reference, and 
cannot be entertained in this proceeding. 

Issue No. 5— 

23. In the result, an award is passed as follows: — 

(i) There is no industrial dispute between the employees, whose names 

are mentioned in Annexure C attached to this award, and the manage- 
ment of the Bank, and no directions can be given so far as they are 
concerned, and these workmen are not entitled to any relief in this 
proceeding. 

(ii) Employee. No. 110, Shri K, K. Mehra, is not a "workman”, and he la not 

entitled to any relief in this reference. 

(iii) All the 55 employees, mentioned in Annexure B. attached to this award, 

and also Shri Sada Nand No. 108, and Shri Sita Ram. No. 102, are all 
"workmen", and the Bank shall implement the provisions of the Bank 
Award in their case, if such implementation has not already been 
effected, 

(iv) With reference to all the other employees, excluding thoae mentioned 

in paragraphs (i) to (ill), the Bank shall treat tnem as workmen, 
ana Implement the provisions of the Award. 

(v) No order as to costs, 

E, Krishna Murti, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

(Sixteen pages). 

The 3rd November, 1958. 



Sec. S (ti)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 2 60I 





Annexure B 



s. 

No. 

No. in the 
reference 


Name 

Designation 


Office 

I 

14 

Shr 

Sewa Ram 

Accountant ■ 


P./Fund Department. 

2 

15 

31 

Vijay Singh . 

Supervisor 


Do. 

3 

l 6 

33 

Ramji Lai 

Do. 


Do. 

4 

20 

33 

K. K. Chopra 

Accountant 


Staff Deptt. 

5 

21 

33 

Ved Parkash Puri . 

Supervisor 


Do. 

6 

24 

33 

M. K. Jain . 

Do. 


Do. 

7 

26 


Shiv Narain Gupta 

Do. 


Do. 

8 

28 


Bal Mukand Arya . 

Accountant . 


Board & Gcnl. Deptt. 

9 

2° 

J 5 

Kundan Lai . 

Supervisor 


B. O. Civil Lines, 
Delhi. 

10 

31 


Jai Chand 

Head Cashier 


Do. 

II 

36 

33 

D. C. Kapur 

Accountant . 


Loans ‘B’ Deptt. 

12 

38 


Roshan Lai Kapur 

Do. 


Do. 

13 

64 

33 

Ved Parkash • 

Do. 


Dist. Manager, Delhi 
Circle. 

14 

84 


Sohan Lai 

Supervisor 


Stationery Deptt. 

15 

85 


Amamath Gupta . 

Do. 


Do* 

16 

86 


Haps Raj Puri 

Accountant . 


Minto Road, N. Delhi. 

17 

91 

31 

Babu Ram 

Supervisor 


Ch. Chowk, Delhi, 
(since retired) 

IS 

92 


Satcharan Seth 

Supervisor 


Ch. Chowk, Delhi. 

19 

94 

33 

Ganga Ram Seth . 

Do. 


Do. 

40 

95 


Ascharaj Lai Kumar 

Do. 


Do. 

21 

96 

33 

Birbal Chopra 

Do. 


Do. 

22 

99 

33 

Gurbux Singh 

Do. 


Do. 

23 

I 05 


B. N. Sharma 

Do. 


Do. 

24 

I 06 


Adlshwar Parshad . 

Head Cashier 


Do. 

25 

I 07 


Ram Labhaya Kapur 

Accountant 


Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 

26 

X 09 


u . ash Chopra 

Supervisor 


Do. 

27 

Il 6 


R. L, Anand 

Do. 


Minto Rd„ NewDclhl, 

28 

117 


R. P. Garg . 

Do. 


Do. 

29 

118 

33 

M. L. Wadhwa 

Do. 


Do. 

3° 

119 


13. K. Chhabra 

Do. 


Do. 

31 

I24 


Parma Lai 

Do. 


Subzimandi, Delhi. 

32 

125 


Durga Das Puri 

Do. 


Do. 

33 

126 


K. L. Puri . 

Do. 


Do. 

34 

128 


Nebh Raj Satija 

Do. 


Do. 

35 

129 


Jaswant Rai . 

Do. 


Do. 

36 

133 


B. D. Gupta 

Do. 


Kashmere Gate, Delhi 

37 

I4I 

33 

K. L. Kharbanda . 

Do. 


Naya Bazar, Delhi. 

3« 

142 

33 

Som Datt 

Do. 


Do. 

39 

143 

33 

R. K, Bhanot 

Do. 


Tropical Bldg., New 
Delhi. 

40 

131 


B. K. Marwah 

Do. 


Fountain, Delhi. 

41 

156 

33 

Som Nath Ahuja . 

Do. 


Jangpura, New Delhi. 
Lodhi Road, N. Delhi. 

42 

157 

33 

M. M. Lai Chopra 

Accountant . 


43 

170 

33 

Hari Chand Sharma 

Supervisor 


Janpath, New Delhi. 
Inspection Deptt. 

44 

I 72 


S, N. Sivputi 

Accountant 


43 

176 

33 

Shanti Lai Malik . 

Supervisor 


Khari Baoli, Delhi. 

46 

178 


Suraj Narain 

Do. 


Civil Lines, Delhi. 

47 

194 

33 

Sat Pal Verma 

Do. 


KhanMarket, N. Delhi 

48 

9 

33 

Sant Ram Chaddha 

Accountant . 


Tropical Building, 

New Delhi. 

49 

46 

33 

Tara Chand , 

Do. 


Loans ‘B’. 

5° 

93 

33 

Ram Niwas . 

Supervisor 


Ch. Chowk, Delhi. 

5i 

138 


Sada Nand Sapra . 

Ram Gopal Malhotra 

Do. 


Regal Bldg. N. Delhi 

52 

I 5° 

33 

Do. 


Ajmeri Gate Extn 
New Delhi. 

53 

179 


Yudhister Lai 

Do. 


Chawri Bazar, Delhi 

54 

l8l 


K. S. Bharati 

Do. 


Do. 

55 

185 

33 

L. R. Vahi . 

Offg. Acctt. . 


Regal Bldg., New 
Delhi. 




a 602 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRA HA YANA 8, 1880 [Part II 




Annexure 

•a 



s. 

No. 

i 

No. in the 
reference 

i 

Name 

Shri Harbans Lai 

— 

Designation 

Accountant . 

-- 

Office 

Central Office 

2 

2 

Shri K. N. Bhandari 


Do. 


Do. 

3 

3 

Shri M. L. Kapur . 


Do. 


Do. 

4 

4 

Shri G. L. Talwar . 


Do. 


Do. 

5 

5 

Shri Sukh Dev 


Do. 


Do. 

6 - 

6 

Shri M. R. Suri 


Supervisor 


Do. 

7 

7 

Shri H. K. L. Kapur 


Do. 


Do. 

8 

II 

Shri R, B. Savena , 


Chartered Acctt. 


Do. 

9 

7 

Shri Chirjit Singh . 


Acctt. . 


Staff Deptt. 

IO 

18 

Shri S. N. Prasliar . 


Do. 


Do. 

II 

19 

Shri A. N. Dhingra 


Do. 


Du 

12 

22 

Shri J. C. Jaitly 


Asstt. Manager 


Do. 

13 

23 

Shri K. K. Kaickar , 


Acctt. . 


Do. 

14 

25 

Shri Gopi Chand Mahna 


Do. 


Loans ‘A’ Deptt. 

15 

27 

Shri Rajinder Nath Chopra 


Do. 


Board & Genl. Deptt. 

16 

29 

Shri Chela Ram 


Officer I/c 


Delhi Shahdara. 

17 

33 

Shri T. N. Chopra . 


Supvr. . 


Foreign Exchange: 

18 

34 

Shri S.R.S. Gulati . 


Do. 


Deptt. 

Do. 

19 

35 

Shri Ascharai Lai . 


Asstt. Manager 


D. M.’s Office, Chan* 

20 

39 

Shri K. L. Aggarwal 


Acctt. . 


digarh. 

D.M’s Office, JuL 

21 

42 

Shri R. S. D. Malhotra . 


Do. 


hmdur City. 

Staff Department. 
Loans ’A’ Deptt. 

22 

45 

Shri Ram Kishan Madan 


Do. 


23 

4« 

Shri M. L. Dhawan 


Do. 


Inspection Deptt. 

24 

5i 

Shri M. L. Mehra , 


Do. 


Do. 

25 

57 

Shri D. N. Mehrotra 


Do. 


Property Deptt. 

26 

58 

Shri H. S. Giani 


Do. 


Inspection Deptt. 

27 

59 

Shri Dharam Vir Kehar . 


Do. 


Do. 

28 

6 o 

Shri Ghanshyam Sarup . 


Do. 


D. M. Delhi Or- 

29 

6r 

Shri Madan Lai Khosla . 


Do. 


clc. 

Do, 

30 

62 

Shri Behari Lai Kanwara 


Do. 


Do. 

31 

63 

Shri Mittcr Bilaa 


Do. 


Inspection Deptt. 

32 

65 

Shri H. L. Anand . 


Accountant . 


D, M. Delhi Cir- 

33 

67 

Shri P. C. Kochbar 


Asstt. Manager 


clc. 

Do. 

34 

69 

Shri P. L. Khosla . 


Accountant . 


Dehra Dun, Paltan 

35 

70 

Shri Ram Lai Ram Das . 


Do. 


Bz. 

Law Department 

36 

7i 

Shri Me hr Chand , 


Do. 


Do, 

37 

72 

Shri Devi Chand Salmi 


Do. 


Do., 

38 

73 

Shri Lajya Ram Agarwal , 
Shri Madan Lai Kapahi , 


Do. 


Do. 

39 

74 


Do. 


Do. 

40 

76 

Shri K. L. Sharma . 


Do. 


D. M. Delhi Cir- 

4i 

78 

ShriV.M. Mehta . 


Asstt. Manager 


cle. 

Foreign Exchange 

42 

8 : 

Shri R. L. Puri 


Accountant . 


Deptt. 

D. M. Delhi Cir- 

43 

82 

Shri V. M. Kheshtrapal . 


Supervisor 


cle. 

Economic Deptt. : 

44 

88 

Shri Hem Chand Jain 


Acctt. . 


Ch. Chowk, Delhi. 

45 

97 

Shri Banwari Lai . 


Supvr. . 


Do. 

46 

98 

Shri Dharam Pal Mehra . 


Do. 


Do, 

47 

101 

Shri Sham Sunder Kharma 


Do. 


Do. 

48 

103 

Shri Sham Lai Agarwal , 


Do. 


Do. 

49 

104 

Shri Ram Narain Kohli . 


Do. 


Patel Nagar, [ New 

5o 

108 

Shri Prem Nath Kapur . 


Acctt. . 


Delhi, 

Tropical Bldg., New 

51 

no 

Shri R. N. Malhotra 


Supvr. . 


Delhi. 

Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 

52 

III 

Shri G, D. Luthra . 


Do. 


Do. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 19S8/AGRAHAYANA 8, I88O2603 


S. No. In the 




No. 

reference 

Name 

Designation 

Office 

53 

1 12 

Shri L. C. Gupta 

. Supvr. 

Khari Baoli, Delhi. 

54 

It3 

Shti Dull Chand Gupta , 

Do. 

Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 

55 

114 

Shri D. R. Madhok 

Asstt. Manager 

Minto Road, New 
Delhi, 

56 

115 

Shri K. N. Iyer 

. Supvr. 

Do. 

57 

120 

Shri Bhola Nath 

Do. 

Lodhi Road, New 
Delhi. 

5* 

12 1 

Shri M. L. Bhalla . 

Do. 

Parliament St., New 
Delhi. 

59 

1^2 

Shri P. S. L, Narayanam 

Do. 

Minto Road, New.- 
Delhi. 

60 

123 

Shri Ram Lai Soni 

Acctt. . 

Sebzi Mandi, Delhi- 

6l 

127 

Shri Bairs j Madhok 

Do, 

Ajmeri Gate. New 
Delhi. 

62 

131 

Shri Indcrjit Gombar 

. Supervisor 

Ch. Chowk, Delhi. 

63 

194 

Shri Jas Raj Chona 

Do. 

Tropical Bldg., Ncw 
Delhi 

*4 

136 

Shri G. S. Mchra . 

. Officer I/c 

Vinav Nagar, New 
Delhi. 

65 

1 B7 

Shri Bharat Prakftsh 

. Supervisor 

Foreign Bxehange, 

Deptt. 

66 

140 

Shri Inder Sain Minocha 

. Accountant 

. Nava Bazar, Delhi. 

67 

144 

Shri M ingal Dass . 

, Supervisor 

Staff Department. 

68 

T45 

Shri K. S- Puri 

Do. 

Tropical Building, 
New Delhi. 

69 

146 

Shri G. L. Sachdeva 

. Manager 

. Lodhi Road, New 
Delhi. 

70 

148 

Shri Dev Raj Vig . 

. Acctt. 

. Ajmeri Gate, New 

Delhi. 

7i 

149 

Shri J. K- Garg 

. Supvr. . 

Do. 

72 

158 

Mrs. Shobha Raina 

Do. 

Lodhi Road, New- 

Delhi. 

73 

162 

Shri S. P. Jain 

Do. 

Gurdwara Road, Ka~ 


rol Bagh, New 
Delhi. 


74 

169 

Shri Mohan Lai Huria 

Acctt. , 

. Junpiith, New Delhi, 

75 

173 

Shri V. D. Vij 

Supvr. . 

Khari Baoli, Delhi. 

76 

174 

Shri H. K. L. Bhatia 

Do. 

. Minto Road, New 
Delhi. 

77 

182 

Shri Joti Prasad 

. Acctt. . 

. Chawri Btzar 

Delhi. 

78 

1B3 

Shri B. D. Gupta 

Asstt. Manager 

Do, 

79 

184 

Shri B. C. Banaal . 

. Acctt. . 

. Paharganj, New ' 

Delhi. 

80 

186 

Shri A. D. Sabherwal 

Do. 

, Bank Street, KaroS 
Bagh, Delhi. 

81 

187 

Shri R. C. Aurora . 

. Supvr. , 

Do. 

82 

193 

Shri B. N. Gulati . 

. Acctt. . 

. Patel Nagar, New 
Delhi. 

83 

54 

Shri M. L. Aggarwal 

Do. 

Inspection Deptt. 

84 

ip8 

Shri Rajinder Ajmani 

. Supvr. , 

. Staff Department. 

85 

164 

Shri Raja Ram Khanna , 

. Asstt. Manager 

Daryagartj, Delhi, 
Loans ‘B’ 

86 

77 

Shri Kashi Nath Vahi 

. Acctt. . 

87 

90 

Shri N. B. Bhatnagar 

. Supvr. . 

. Daryaganj, Delhi. 

88 

166 

Shri R. K. Malik . 

Do. 

. Inspection Deptt. 

89 

165 

Shri H. D. Srivastava 

. Acctt. . 

, Darvaganj, Delhi. 

90 

8 

Shri G. P. Gupta . 

. Supvr. . 

. Central Office. 


[No. LR/II 10(2)/67.J 


New Delhi, the 20 th November 1958 

S.O. 2479. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947" 
(14 of 1B47), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, In the industrial dispute between the employers 
In relation, to the Loyabad Colliery Workshop of M/s Bird & Co. (Private) Ltd,, 
Post Office Bansjora and their workmen. 



2604 the gazette OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 

Reference No. 43 of 1958. 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to Loyabad Colliery workshop of Messrs. Bird & Co. 
(Private) Limited. 

and 

Their workmen, 

Dated the 8th November 1958. 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant ( B.A.LL.B:, Chairman: 

Appearances: 

Shri S. S. Mukherjea, B.Sc., B.L., 

Advocate, with Shri P, K. Mitter, Chief Personnel Officer, 

and Shri J. L. Sinha, Group Personnel Officer— for the employers. 

Shri Lallt Burman, 

General Secretary, Loyabad Labour Union — for the workmen. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour, and Employment, by Order 
No. LR.II/2(84) / 58 dated 11th July 1958 made in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 
1947 (XIV of 1947), was pleased to refer to me for adjudication the industrial dis- 
pute between the parties above named In respect of the following matters specified 
in the schedule annexed to the said order: — 

"Whether the dismissal of Shri J, N. Prasad, Assistant Store Keeper, 
Loyabad colliery workshop of M/s. Bird & Co. (P) Ltd. P.O. Bansjora 
(Dhanbad) was justified, and if not, what relief he is entitled to.” 

2. After the usual notices were issued Shri Laiit Burman, General Secretary, 
Loyabad Labour Union, filed the statement of claim on behalf of the workmen on 
18th August 1958 and the employers filed their written statement In reply on 10th 
September 1958, after which the matter was fixed for hearing on 3rd October 1958 
and after being part heard was adjourned for parties to negotiate for a settlement 
and as no settlement was reached, the hearing was concluded on 17th October 
1958, 

3. The facts of the case briefly stated are that Shri J. N. Prasad, the workman 
concerned in this dispute, was at the relevant time employed as an Assistant Store 
Keeper of the Loyabad Colliery Workshop. He had been in the services of this 
company since April 1951 and had worked in different collieries under it. According 
to the union after joining the workshop, Prasad started taking an active part in 
organising another union of the workmen namely the Loyabad Colliery Workshop 
Workers’ Union and in about August 1957 he was elected its Vice President. 
According to Shri Prasad the management did not take these activities of his in 
good spirits as the new union under his leadership took up the grievances of the 
workmen particularly with regard to their proper gradation and categorisation 
under the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India. This displeased 
the management which sought an opportunity to get rid of him. The management 
has denied this allegation of victimisation and has stated that this union was 
not recognised by it as it was an un-registered union, 

4. Now, the facts leading to the dismissal of Prasad from service on 3rd January 
1958 are that on 18th November 1957 Prasad attended to his duties as usual but 
as he was not feeling well, with the permission of the Manager of the workshop, 
he got himself examined by the company’s doctor at the colliery’s hospital, when 
It was found that he was suffering from Adenitis in the left groin, for which he 
was prescribed certain treatment. The medical attendance ticket Issued to him 
by the company’s hospital has been filed in these proceedings (Exhibit W-A). 
According to Prasad he was ill from 19th November 1957 to 25th November 1957, 
and could not therefore attend to his duties until he resumed work on 28th 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, I88O2605 


November 1957. It is also admitted that on 23rd, 24th and 25th November 1957 he 
was treated at the Bhuli dispensary and the certificate produced from that dispensary 
(Exhibit E-7) shows that he was suffering from fever and dermatitis. 

5. According to the management, Prasad had remained absent without any 
prior authorised leave from 19th November 1957 during which period it was 
reported to the management that he was found at West Bokaro colliery where a 
strike was going on. Therefore on. 21st November 1957 the management addressed 
a letter to Prasad (Exhibit E-6) asking his explanation for his un-authorised 
absence from 19th November 1957, to which he replied on the same day stating 
that he had been ill since 18th November 1950 (Exhibit E.5). Thereafter he re- 
sumed work on 26th November 1957 when a charge sheet, No. 3 dated 26th 
November 1957, was issued to him charging him under para 12 of the Standing 
Orders with unauthorised absence from 19th November 1957 to 22nd November 
1957. He replied to this charge sheet denying the charge and stated that he had, 
with the permission of the Manager, got himself examined at the company’s 
hospital on 18th November 1957 after which he had taken ill and was unable to 
walk about. He stated that the question of unauthorised absence did not arise 
as he was sick and had obtained medical attendance ticket from Loyabad Hospital 
on 18th November 1957 and had also been treated at the Bhuli Dispensary on 
the 23rd, 24th and 25th November. The management was not satisfied with this 
explanation and fixed an enquiry on the charge sheet on 14th December 1957 
which was adjourned sine die. The enquiry was, thereafter held on 28th December 
1957 at which the manager of the Loyabad Workshop made a factual statement 
about Prasad’s absence from 19th November 1957 to 22nd November 1957 and of 
the charge sheet which had been issued to him. To establish the company’s case 
that Prasad was really not ill and had gone to the West Bokaro colliery during the 
period of his unauthorised leave, the management examined two workmen of 
the West Bokaro colliery namely R. K. Prasad (P.W. 2) and Rahman Khan (P.W. 
3) and it is on the evidence of these two witnesses that the enquiring officer of 
the management held that it was proved that Prasad had visited the West 
Bokaro colliery during that period and I shall therefore deal with the evidence of 
these two witnesses in detail a little later. To continue, at th<* enquiry the state- 
ment of Ramchandra Tewari, Office Chaprasi, Loyabad Workshop, who has been 
shown as D.W. 1, was also recorded. Prasad also made a statement and was 
searchlngly cross-examined on that statement evidently by the Enquiry Officer. 
After the enquiry, the manager by his letter dated. 3rd January 1958 (Annexure 
‘D’ to the company’s written statement) Informed Prasad that, "his explanation 
that he was too sick to obtain medicine or to obtain leave was found false at 
the enquiry as it was proved that he visited the West Bokaro colliery during this 
period.” He was, therefore, dismissed from service with Immediate effect. 
Against this order Prasad appealed to the Chief Mining Engineer who by his 
order dated 20th January 1958 turned down the same. The union thereafter raised 
an industrial dispute with regard to the dismissal of Prasad, which was taken 
up In Conciliation but as the conciliation proceedings ended in failure, the dispute 
has been referred to adjudication. 

6. Before dealing with the contentions raised by the parties It Is necessary in 
state that the company in its written statement had raised a legal contention that 
this dispute does not come under the purview of the definition of ‘industrial 
dispute’ under Section 2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947, as it was an 
individual dispute. But this contention was not pressed at the hearing by Shrl 
Mukherjea the learned Advocate for the Company as clearly the case of this workman 
has been taken up by the Loyabad Labour Union and as the Government order of 
reference describes this as a dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Loyabad colliery Workshop of Messrs. Bird & Co., (P) Ltd., and their workmen. 
1 need not, therefore, deal with this contention. 

7. The main ground on which this order of dismissal is challenged on behalf 
of Prasad Is that the evidence at the enquiry did not establish the management’s 
conclusion that he had been found at the West Bokaro colliery during the period of 
his leave and that the order of dismissal which was based on that finding was not 
justified, 

8. I have carefully gone through the evidence recorded at the enquiry and I 
am of the opinion that the finding of the management that it was proved at the 
enquiry that be had visited the West Bokaro colliery during the period of his 
leave was perverse. 

9. Witness R. K. Prasad (P.W. 2) in his statement In examination in Chief at 
the enquiry stated that on the 18th or/l&th November (under lining mine) he had 
seen Prasad at West Bokaro colliery. He stated that he had seen him with one 



26o6 the gazette OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1938/ AGRA HAYANA 8, 1880 IPart II 


Bindeshwari Singh an I.N.T.U.C, leader In the house of Guru Das Ram and that he- 
aopeared unwell. In cross-examination by Prasad he stated that he had seen 
Prasad at about 8 p.m. on 18tii November 1857 and again on 19th November 1957 
at about 7 a.m. It will thus be seen that whilst in examination m Chief this 
witness had stated that he had seen Prasad either on 18th or 19th November, in 
his cross-exmination he stated that he. had seen him at 8 p.m. on 18th November- 
1957 and again on 19th November 1957 at about 7 a.m. Now, it is admitted that 
the West Bokaro colliery is about 100 miles from Loyabad Colliery and that 
Prasad was in the Loyabad colliery on duty on 18th November 1957 till 2-15 p.m. 
and it is admitted that there is no ordinary mode of transport by which he could, 
have reached West Bokaro colliery by 8 p.m. on 18th November 1957. 


10. The second witness Rahman Khan, (P.W'. 3)Overman in Charge, West 
Bokaro Colliery, who was examined evidently to corroborate the statement of the 
first witness R. K. Prasad (P.W. 2) stated that on 19th November, 1957 at about 
10-30 a,m. when he was going from the office towards his quarters with Raj 
Kishore Babu (P.W. 2), he saw J. N, Prasad, the workman concerned in this dispute. 
There upon he asked Raj Kishore Babu who this new man was and Raj Kishore 
Babu replied that he knew him and that he worked at Loyabad, It will thus- 
be seen that whilst P.W. 2 stated that he had seen J. N. Prasad at 
the West Bokaro colliery at 7 a.m. on 19th November, 1957 and he 
stated nothing about having seen him in the company of Rahman Khan, Rahman 
Khan, (P.W. 3) says that he saw J. N, Prasad at about 10-30 a.m. on 19th Novem- 
ber 1957 when he was In the companv of Raj Kishore Prasad. There is therefore 
clear inconsistency in the evidence of P.W, 2 and of P.W. 3. Besides, the story 
of Rahman Khan that because he saw a new face at the colliery ha asked Raj 
Kishore Babu who he was, appears to be ;unnatural and unconvincing. The 
defence of the workman that these were witnesses who were under the management’s 
control receives strength from the fact admitted by the management that Rahman 
Khan (P.W 3) was a former employee of the Loyabad colliery. I am inclined 
to the opinion that the evidence of these two witnesses was so unreliable, 
unconvincing incoosistant and improbable, as not to be believed by any Impartial 
enquiry officer. It is also significant that the enquiry which was fixed on 14tb 
December, 1957 was suddenly adjourned sine die. It appears to me that the 
contention of Prasad that these 2 witnesses were not independent witnesses but 
under the control of the management is justified. 


11. It is now well settled that the purpose of a departmental enquiry by a 
Domestic Tribunal is to see whether the charge framed against the concerned 
employee is proved on the evidence recorded at the enquiry. The finding of the 
Enquiry Officer must be based on the evidence on the record. As held by the 
Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Indian Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., Versus their 
workmen (1958 -I-L.L.J.p. 261 at page 269 and 270) the Tribunal would be justified 
in interfering with the order of dismissal of the management when on the materials 
the finding of the management is completely baseless or perverse. In my opinion 
the evidence at the enquiry was so completely unsatisfactory that no impartial 
enquiry officer would have on the basis of that evidence come to the conclusion 
that it was established that Prasad had during the period of his unauthorised 
absence gone to West Bokaro colliery. This finding in the light of the circum- 
stances stated above, must be held to be perverse. 

12. It was sought to be argued by Shri Mukherjea, learned Advocate for the 
company that Shri Prasad’s story that he was so unwell that he could not move 
out of the house could not be believed. In that connection he has relied upon the 
statement of Ramchandra Tewary, office chaprasl (D.W. 1) who was examined at 
the enquiry and wno stated that he had on 21st November 1957 taken a letter 
from the Manager to J. N. Prasad at his residence and met him on the road at 
the entrance to Bhull colony. It Is, however, admitted that Prasad lived in the 
Bhull colony. Merely by the fact that he was seen on 21st November 1957 In 
the Bhull colony would not establish that he was not well during 19th to 22nct 
November 1957. 

13 It was also argued that Prasad if he was really 111 and unable to attend 
to his duties could very well have informed the management to that effect by 
having sent a letter through one of the other employees of the workshop who 
were also living in Bhull colony. To this. Prasad’s explanation was that he had 
no servant and he was not in a fit condition to move out to send any letter to 
the management But the finding of the enquiry officer, as stated In the Manager’s 
letter of dismissal dated 3rd January 1958, was that it was proved aj the enquiry 
that Prasad had visited the West Bokaro colliery during the period 19th November 
1957 to 22nd November where an Illegal strike was In progress — the suggestion 



Sec. 


hi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1B80 2 6 o7 


'being that he had gone there to further the progress of that illegal strike. The 
management therefore had dismissed him not because Prasad had failed in his 
•duty to Inform the management that he was not well and could not attend but 
because the management was satisfied that the enquiry had established that he 
had visited West Bokaro Colliery during the 18th and 21st November 1957. In 
other words he was dismissed because the management believed the evidence of 
witnesses P.W. 2 and P.W, 3 that he had gone to the West Bokaro colliery, li 
must be remembered that on 18th November 1957 Prasad was treated at the 
company's hospital and thereafter admittedly on 23rd, 24th and 25th November, 
he was treated at the Bhuli dispensary, as proved by Exhibit El-7. The Bhuli 
dispensary certificate states that Prasad was suffering from fever and dermatitis. 
It was suggested by Shrl Mukherjea, learned Advocate for tne management that 
this was a different malady from the one for which he was treated earlier at the 
company's hospital on 18th November 1957. But it is significant to note that both 
the company's doctor as well as the Bhuli doctor had prescribed the same lotion 
namely lotion calamine, indicating that Shri Prasad was treated at the Bhuli 
hospital tor the same malady as by the company’s hospital on the 18th November. 

14. Shri Lalit Burman on behalf of the workman, next contended that 
absence without permission could amount to misconduct only if it had extended 
for a period of more than 10 days. In that connection he has referred to Standing 

■Order No. 27(18) which provides that continuous absence without permission and 
without satisfactory cause for more than 10 days would amount to misconduct. 
He has, therefore, argued that as Prasad’s absence had only been of 4 days, 
’he was not guilty of misconduct under Standing Order 27(16), which was the 
proper standing order which applied. He has further contended that the manage- 
ment had recourse to standing order No. 12 in a mala fide manner because It 
will know that Standing Order 27(16) would not apply. His further contention 
that Standing Order No. 12 does not apply to cases of absence from work for 
•short periods like 4 days, as in the Instant case. Standing order No. 12 provides 
as follows:— 

'‘Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, any employee who overstays 
his sanctioned leave or remains absent without properly approved 
leave will render himself liable for disciplinary action.” 

Reading this Standing Order with Standing Order No. 11, it does appear that the 
absence contemplated by this Standing Order relates to absence by way of over- 
staying cf sanctioned leave or availing oneself of leave which Is due without proper 
• approval of the management and that short unauthorised absence from work as 
In this case would more properly be a misconduct if it fails under the provisions 
■of Standing Order 27(16). However, as I have held that the order of dismissal 
was perverse, it is not necessary to give a finding on this contention. 

15, In the result, I am satisfied that the dismissal of Shri J. N. Prasad was not 
justified and I answer the first question under reference accordingly. The next 
Question to consider Is as to what rglief Prasad is entitled to. Considering all 
the facts and circumstances of the case I think the ends of justice would be met 
if I were to direct that Prasad should be reinstated in service in his old post with 
continuity of service within a month from the date the award herein becomes 

■enforceable on his presenting himself for being taken back in service and that the 
management shall pay him half the basic pay and dearness allowance for the 
period from the date of dismissal i.e. from 3rd January 1958 till the date of his 
■reinstatement within 7 days of his reinstatement . 


16. 1 award Rs. 50/- (Rupees fifty), as costs to the workman. 

Salim m. Merchant, 
(Sd.) 

Chairman, Central Govt. 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, 

Dhanbad, 

The 8th November 1958. 

[No. LR 11/2(84) /58.] 

S.O, 2480.-— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Labour Court, Nagpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda and their workmen. 



afiogTHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRA HAVANA 8, 1880 [Part n 

BEFORE SHRI P. D. VYAS, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR COURT, 

NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 

Reference (LC) No, 3 of 1958 

An Adjudication between 

The employers in relation to 
Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda. 

And 

Their Workmen. 

In the matter of an industrial dispute re. dismissal of a workman. 
Appearances : 

Shri S. G. Rao, Manager, with Shri S. R. Dhas — for the Management. 

Shri K. R. Nalamwar, President, Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor Sangh — for 
the workmen. 


AWARD 

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause Cel sub-section (l) of secion 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947, the Central Government was pleased to 
refer to me an industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Rayatwari 
Colliery, Chanda, and their workmen for adjudication by Government Order 
No. LRlI|2(40) 1 58 dated 9-6-1958. The dispute relates to the matter specified 
in the schedule annexed to the said order. 

Schedule 

"Whether the dismissal of Shri Ramteke Madana, ex-Sirdar of Rayatwari 
Colliery, Chanda, was wrongful and if so, to what relief Shri 
Madana is entitled.’’ 

2. On the usual notices being Issued the President, Maharashtra Khadan. 
Mazdoor Sangh, Chanda, has filed the statement of claims on behalf of the 
workman and the Manager. Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda, has filed the written 
statement on behalf of the Company. 

3. The case on behalf of the workman is that on Sunday the 1st December 
1957, Shri Ramteke Madana was collecting weekly subscription from the members 
of the Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda. Shri 
Dughals, Mining Engineer, accompanied with a team of Chowkidar, Engineer, 
Over-man, Accountant and Office Superintendent apprehended Shri Madana and 
snatched away the Union’s subscription book and assaulted him and his 
co-workers. He was thereafter driven out of the Colliery area and when on the 
same night he reported for work he was not allowed to work in the night shift. 
Since then he is being refused employment without having been served with any 
charge-sheet or without disclosing any reason whatsoever. It is alleged by the 
Management that his services were terminated due to his violent behaviour and 
statements but the incident took place on Sunday which was a rest day for him 
and when he was not on duty. No question of violent behaviour and statements 
as such on his part therefore arises, As regards the assault on Shri Madana, 
the Incident has been reported to the Police Station, Chanda, and a criminal case 

inder section 107 of the Criminal Procedure Code has been started by the Police. 
\n,y allegation that Shri Madana took part in an illegal strike on 4th and 5th 
of December, 1957 is untenable and unwarranted since his services have been 
terminated on 1st December, 1957. It is clear that Shri Madana has been 
dismissed on account of his trade' union activities in the Colliery and he should 
theiefore be reinstated with full backwages. 

4. The case on behalf of the Management is that the weekly payment to the 
labour having remained unflnishd on 30-11-1957, it was again taken up on 
1-12-1957. Shri Ramteke Madana started collecting subscription at the 
counter when the payment was In progress. The Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor 
Sangh for which the collections were being made by Shri Madana has not been 
recognised’ by the Company and many of the workers being not the members 
of the said Union protested against Shri Madana making the collections. In the 
result there was a lot of confusion and nuisance at the counter and it became 
almost impossible to make the disbursements. Moreover, Shri Madana was not 
permitted by the Management to collect money at the counter or within the 
Colliery premises. In the circumstances Shri Madana was asked to stop his- 



Sec, 3 (ii)]l THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 


collections at the counter but he did not listen and he and his companions acted 
In an offensive and abusive manner. It is untrue that the Manager with his 
assistants apprehended him or assaulted him though tt is a tact that the sub- 
scription book was taken away from him and a report was made to the police 
against him and others. Though the Incident took place on Sundayt, even on a 
rest day it was not open to Shri Madana to behave in a riotous and unruly 
manner and be offensive towards the Management. It is Shri Madana and his 
companions who have been proceeded against under section 107 of Criminal 
Procedure Code and besides, he having actively worked to incite the labour to 
go on illegal strike on the 4th and 5th December, 1958, the matter was reported' 
to the Regional Labour Commissioner and to the Deputy Superintendent of 
Police, Chanda. It is denied that Shri Madana has been’ "dismissed for his trade 
Union activities and alleged that while in service he was found guilty of the 
following acts and omissions: 


(a) Sleeping during duty hours amounting to dereliction of duty; 

(b) Appointing persons to work in the colliery without jurisdiction; 

(c) Falsely showing his presence in the attendance register on 31-3-1957 ,. 

1-4-1957 & 2-4-1957 even though he had actually enjoyed leave and' 
thereby tried to cheat the Management; 


(d) Signing the attendance register in advance; 

(e) Disobeyed the order of the Management in riding in bucket in a 

shaft, a very serious matter exposing himself to the risk of death 
and exposing the colliery to blame and the risk of payment of 
compensation for loss of life. 


This past record and the unruly and unbecoming behaviour of Shri Madana 
made it incumbent on the Management to remove him from service He was 
therefore dismissed on 1 -12-1957 and refused employment from that date, It 
is true that a charge-sheet was not given to him before dismissal but this is 
not a requirement under law, but under circulars issued and no circulars for the 
conduct of business have been Issued In regard to this colliery, Non-issue bf 
charge-sheet for the incident on 1-12-1957 therefore cannot make the dismissal 
or Shri Madana illegal. In the circumstances stated above Shri Madana was 
ound incompetent for the job and has shown himself unreliable and dishonest. 
His wanton disobedience to safety regulations and orders of the Management 
make it risky to retain him any longer In service with the responsible duties of 
a Sirdar. 


5. The Management next contends that Shri Madana after his dismissal has 
accepted his dues in full and final settlement of his claims and thus the matter 
has been concluded. Moreover, the Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor Sangh has 
not been recognised by the Management and is thus not entitled to take up the- 
f-auac of Shri Madana and make it an industrial dispute. Assuming it could 
do so, the said Union has never approached the Management for the reinstate- 
ment ot Shri Madapa and there arose no industrial dispute between the Union 
ana tne employers so as to make it competent to the Government to make the 
present reference. Besides a dismissed workman cannot by making a demand 
lor reinstatement, create an industrial dispute and his dismissal has not 
developed Into a dispute in which the majority of the workers of the Colliery 
have beaome interested or have espoused his cause. In the absence of any 
industrial dispute, the reference made is without jurisdiction. 

0 . e - 'f ne question arising in the present reference is whether the dismissal of 
bhri Ramteke Madana, ex-Slrdar of Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda was wrongful 
ana if so, to what relief Shri Madana is entitled. It 'is an undisputed fact that 
he was a working Sirdar and the President of the Maharashtra Khadan MaSdbor 
Sangh, Rayatwari Branch, Chanda, I was told that the said Sangh is a registered 
Trade Union and it cannot be gain-said that the Union of which Shri Madana 
is a member and office-bearer has taken up his cause and turned it into a 
collective dispute on behalf of the workmen in general. It appears from the 
failure report of the Conciliation Officer (Central), Ex. U-2, that the Maharashtra 
Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, Chanda by its letter dated 4-12-1957 represented that 
Management of Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda illegally dismissed Shri Ramteke 
Madana, on account of his Trade Union activities. The Union thus sought the 
intervention of the Conciliation Officer and reauested for the reinstatement of 
the said employee, The representative of the Management appearing before the- 
Conciliation Officer stated that in the past Shri Ramteke Madana had committed 
certain offences but every time lenient view was taken and he was pardoned. 
The said representative further expressed that considering tne action of Shri 
Ramteke Madana on 5-12-1957 when he prohibited certain leaders from going - 



26io the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


underground and the past offences committed by him, the Management had no 
other alternative but to dismiss him from service, me Management’s represen- 
tative then denied the allegation of any victimisation on account of the Trade 
Union activities of Shrl Madana. It Is thus Incorrect to say that the Management 
was never approached for reinstatement of Shrl Mauana or that this Is not an 
Industrial dispute which could be referred for adjudication by the Government. 
In my opinion the present reference is quite competent and this Tribunal has 
got the jurisdiction to proceed with the same on merits. 

7. The weekly payment day to the labour was on 30-11-1957 but the payment 
having remained unfinished on that day it was taken up on the next day, i.e. 
on 1-12-1957, It was on this day that Shxi Ramteke Madana started collecting 
subscription in his capacity as the President, Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor 
Sangh, Rayatwari Colliery Branch. Chanda, along with his Secretary. On behalf 
of the workmen It was alleged that Shri Madana was collecting subscription in 
the Labour colony where the workmen are residing, i.e. at a distance of about 
200 ft. from the office. No such case has been specifically pleaded in the state- 
ment of claims nor does it look quite correct in the circumstances of the case. 
According to the workmen's own version the Mining Engineer along with a 
team of some other officers snatched away the subscription book and turned 
out Shri Madana after having committed an act, of assault on him. If the 
collection took place in the labour colony away from the office, no such incident 
is likely to take place and there Is every likelyhood that Shri Madna was 
collecting subscription without permission of the Management just at the counter 
or near the office which seriously disturbed the work of payment to labour going 
on on that day. The Management admits the fact that the subscription book 

was taken away from him and that in view of his unruly and unbecoming 

behaviour together with his past bad record he was removed from service with 
effect from 1-12-1957, 

8. In the written statement filed in the present reference as well as In the 

proceedings before the Conciliation Officer, the Management has made certain 

confusion as to the ultimate cause which led to the dismissal of Shri Madana, 
So far as the past record is concerned, it is relevant only for determining the 
nature of the punishment provided the incident which took place on 1-12-1957 
is true. So also the subsequent behaviour, if any, on the part of the worker 
concerned on 4th and 5th December, 1957 In connection with the alleged Incite- 
ment to' strike Cc-f. Exs. C 12 & C 14) is not quite relevant, when according to 
the Management’s own case in the written statement Shri Madana was dismissed 
on i-12-1957. The letter dated 1-12-1957 addressed to him for the purpose by 
the Colliery Manager stands thus — (vide Exs. Cll & Ul): — 


"In view of your violent behaviour and statements this morning 'and 
considering the fact that you have been Issued with various charge 
sheets in the past for breaches of Mining Laws and. -other unseemely 
behaviour, I regret that your services are no longer required by this 
firm. 


You will please attend the office and take your final settlement forthwith ” 
It. is this dismissal which Is the subject-matter of the present reference. 

9. It appears that after the incident on 1-12-1957, the matter was taken up 
to the Police by both the parties. So far as these police actions by the parties 
are concerned, I was told that at present there Is no criminal case pending 
between them. Moreover no question relating thereto arises before us In the 
present reference. That Shri Madana was making unauthorised collection on 
1-12-1957 without the permission of the Management cannot be denied apd it 
was not open to him to create any disturbance at the counter or at the office 
where the weekly payment to labour was going on. Whether it was a Sunday 
or a rest day for Shri Madana makes no difference, because any such riotous 
behaviour or act subversive of discipline does give rise to an action on the part 
of the Management even if it takes place outside the working hours or outside 
the promises of the establishment— nice Workmen of the Shalimar Rope Works 
ns Shalimar Rope Works, Ltd.— 1953 II L.L.J. 876. But at the same time the 
could not summarily dismiss the concerned workman in the manner 
it has done and even if there be no standing orders vovornmg the Concern, the 
Management should have followed the principles of natural justice and Siven an 
opportunity to the workman to render explanation In the written statement 
It is alleged that the non-issue of charge-sheet for the incidentcannotm^etc 
dismissal" illegal and that the Management is under no legal obligation to issue 




Sec. S (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2!), 1958/ AGRA HA YANA 8 , I 88 O 26 H 


any charge-sheet. In fact there are papers on record which indicate that for 
the past Incidents referred to in the written statement, the Management did 
issue charge-sheet. Thus the Management is aware of the requirement of a 
eharge-sheet or giving a formal opportunity to the workman concerned to make 
his defence and there is justification why the Management should have given 
a go-bye to the usual procedure at the time of the last incident on 1-12-1957. 
In my opinion, therefore, the action of the Management in summarily dismissing 
the workman is not justified and in the ordinary circumstances the concerned 
workman would have been entitled to the normal relief of reinstatement with 
back wages. 

10. There are however other factors in the case which disentitle the concerned 
workman to any relief. In the first place there is enough material vide Exs. 
C2 to CIO and C-18 indicating his past bad record and the Management has 
rightly contended that it is risky to retain him any longer in service and entrust 
to him the responsible job of a Sirdar. The matter does not rest there. We find 
that the concerned workman has later on given up the dispute and accepted 
certain money from the Management in full and final settlement of his claims. 
He was paid in all Rs. 275-55 on 15-4-1958 and he has passed the following 
receipt in his own hand and in his own language which has been translated Into 
English and attested by certain witnesses — vide Ex. Cl along with its enclosures 
and C17: 

"I have today received my dues in full and final settlement from M/s, 
R. B. Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad, Proprietor, Chanda Rayatwari 
Colliery, Chanda. I got no any other claims what-so-ever on the 
company henceforth, as I got all my dues to my satisfaction. I 
shall be vacating my Quarters immediately.” 


That he did accept the money and knew what it was has not been disputed and 
he has further admitted that the said writing in vernacular is in his own hand 
and under his signature. The payment consists of honus, leave pay, notice pay 
and difference in arrears of wages and w'hen the worker goes to the extent of 
saying that not only he has no other claims whatsoever but he shall also he 
vacating his Quarters immediately. It means that it was a final settlement under 
which he severed his connection with the Management for good. If really there 

was to remain any dispute outstanding between the Management and the 

workman, it is unlikely that he would agree to vacate his Quarters. That there 

was a talk that the Management should pay his dues to Shri Madana and settle 
the dispute amicably could not he denied by the Union looking to its report as 
per Ex. US to the Conciliation Officer (Central! , Whnt is there alleged Is that 
after signing the papers of settlement, when Shri Madana took the amount, he 
found that it was not even one-third of the total amount due to him. In the 
first place it is significant to note that the statement of claims is entirely silent on 
this point and this important subsequent event which goes to the roof of the 
matter has been there kept back. Even after the Management mentioned the 

same in its written statement, no attempt has been made to deny or explain the 
same by filing any rejoinder. Tt is unlikely that the workman would actually 
receive the money without any protest as he has done. As said above it is an 
undisputed fact that he did accent the money and knew what it was. If he 
really felt that the payment fell short of the amount due to him or expected by 

him, he would have refused to accent the same. Obviously any attempt on his 

behalf to report to the Conciliation Officer f Central! as per Ex. U-3 is an after- 
thought. Not only this but the worker w'ent to the extent of charging the 
Management with a criminal act of cheating hut T was told that the police took 
no action in the matter. In my opinion the fact that there has been a full and 
final settlement in sa+isfaction of the claims of the concerned workman cannot 
be denied and it is not onen to him to seek t.be relief of reinstatement and/or 
any compensation. The dispute having beer settled between the parties, there 
arises no question of granting any relief to the workman Shri Madana and the 
reference stands disposed of accordingly 


Dated ; 7 th November 195R. 


(Sd.) P. D. Vya S , 

Judge, 

Central Govt, Labour Court, 
Nagpur. 


[No. LRII/2(40)/58.] 



26l2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1 958/AG RAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


S.O. 2481, — -Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the East Kumardhubl Colliery and their workman represented by the 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Dhanbad; 

And whereas the management of the said colliery and the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh have, under sub-section (I) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (14 of 1947), referred the dispute to arbitration by an Arbitration Agree- 
ment and have forwarded to the Central Government under sub-section (3) of 
the said section a copy of the said Arbitration Agreement; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby publishes the said Arbitration Agreement. 


FORM C 
(See Rule 7) 

Acirement 

Under Section toA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ) 

Between 

Name of Parties: 

Representing Employers; Shri L. J. Pathak, 

Chief Welfare Officer, 

Shree Shrcc Lakshmi Narain Trust, 

East Kumardhubi Colliery, 

P.O, Chirkunda (Dhanbad). 

Shri S. Radha Krishnan, 

Manager, East Kumardhubi Colliery 
P.O. Chirkunda (Dhanbad). 


Representing Workmen : The President, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, 

Opposite State Bank of India, 

Dhanbad. 

The General Secretary, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, 

Opp: State^Bank of India, 

Dhanbad. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the arbitra- 
tion of 

Shri Salim Merchant, B.A.L.L.B., 

Chairman, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 

(i) Specific matters in disputes: Shri Ramkissun Das, 

Trammers’ Sirdar should be removed ftom 
East Kumardhubi Colliery. 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute ") Employers of East Kumardhubi Colliery 
including the name and address of )- M/s. Srcc Srce Uakshmi Narain Trust, 
ihe Establishm;nt or undertaking j P.O. Chirknda, Dist. Dhanbad. 
involved. 

(iii) Name of the Union, if any, represen- \ Colliery Mazdoor Saiigh, Regd, No. 491 

ting the workmen in question. (Opposite State Bank of India, Dhanbad. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed 590 
in the undertaking affected. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen J 40 
affected or likely to be affected by the 
dispute. 




Sec. 3 (ij)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 20, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 

We further agree that the majority decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

Signature of the Parties. 

Witness: Sd /- L.J. Pathak. 

(ij Sd/- N. M. Trtvedi, Chief Welfare Officer, 

(Cashier, E.K. Colly) Since Shrce Laksiimi Narain Trust, 

East Kumardhubi Colliery, 

P.O. Chirkunda (Dhanbad). 
Representing Employers. 

Sd/- S. Radha Khishan. 

Colliery Manager, 

Srce Srec Lakshmi Narain Trust, 

East Kumardhubi Colliery, 

P.O. Chirkunda (Dhanbad). 

Representing Employers. 

(2) Sd/- KANn Mehta. 

President, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh (INTUC), 

Opposite Stale Bank of India, 
Dhanbad, 

Representing Workers. 

(R. N. Sharma), M.L.A. 

General Secretary, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh (INTUC), 

Opposite State Bank of India, 

Dhanbad, 

Dattd: 33 rd October ’ 58 . Representing Workers. 

[No. LRII-2 (146) / 58.] 

Nam Delhi, the 21th November 1958 

S.O. 2482. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to M/S Nenshi Monji, Quarry Owners, Bombay, and their workmen. 

BEFORE SURI F. JEEJEEB1IOY CHAIRMAN, LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUN AT, 
OF INDIA, FUNCTIONING AS THE SOLE MEMBER OF THE CENTRAL 
GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CONSTITUTED BY THE ORDER 
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOY- 
MENT DATED 14T11 AUGUST 1958, WITH HEADQUARTERS AT BOMBAY. 

Reference (CGIT) No. 1 OP 1958 

In the matter of: 

Nenshi Monji, Quarry owners. 

AND 

Their workmen. 

Appearances: 

For the employers.— Shri B. N. Ramdas, Labour Adviser. 

For the workmen. — Shri R. S. Kulkurni, President. Mumbai Wa Upnavan 
Dagad Khun Kamgar Union. 

AWARD 

The Central Government by its Order of 14th August 1958 referred an indus- 
trial dispute between Nenshi Monji, Quarry owners of Bombay, and their work- 
men to this Tribunal for adjudication. The two issues for decision ure as follows: — • 

1. What should be the recess hours for the workers of quarry of M/s Nenshi 

Monji, and 

2. Is it absolutely necessary to have second recess for purposes of blasting? 

2. This quarry is situated on the Kurla-Vihar road, and the 23 acres which 
comprise the total quarry area of the film of Nenshi Monji about the main road. 
In the quarry the workmen before me are engaged for the purpose of drilling into 
the rock and of breaking the blasted rock; iht, blasting is done by others. 



26l4 TH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Pabi II 


3. The hours of work at the quarry are as follows: 

First Session: 8 a.m. to 12 Noon. 

Recess: 12 to 1-30 p.m. 

Second Session: 1-30 to 3 p.m. 

Recess for blasting: 3 to 3-30 p.m. 

Third Session: 3-30 to 6 p.m. 

I, It is the contention of labour that the lunch hour is unduly long and should 
be reduced by half an hour. Labour further contends that the half hour recess 
for blasting is unnecessary, and that the blasting should be done within the recess 
of 12 and 1. In other words labour complains that the recesses taken together 
are too long, and should be reduced by one hour, so that the workmen may not 
be required to hand around unduly. 

5. I have sympathy with the view that the workmen should not have to remain 
around any longer than is necessary, even though they may be living at or near' 
the quarry. But the subject is not free from difficulty. This particular quarry 
covers an area of I J acres out of the total area of 23 acres. The remaining area 
of 21J acres is partly let out to others on royalty and is otherwise vacant. Next 
to the quarry of the concern before me are Hve quarry areas in adjacent com- 
partments taken by others on royalty from this firm; they all blast at the same 
time between 3 and 3-30 p.m. Furthermore they have the same recess hours; and 
it has been pointed out to me that while there are about 200 to 300 workers on 
the whole lot, I am asked to change the recess and blasting hours for the sake 
of just 12 permanent workers represented by the union. The union however; 
points out that there are altogether 40 persons engaged on this 11 acres for blast- 
ing, transporting and breaking of rock, and that thus, apart from the 12 perma- 
nent workers, there are some 30 others who are working there either under con- 
tractors or some other system of engagement. The employers reply that the 
mecUanlcal unit staff like the garage staff, drivers, and others connected with 
transport work, also have to go considerable distances in order to have their lunch. 
The job of the permanent worker is as stated to drill and to break the blasted 
rock; and four of the workers are on the crushing machine. 

6. I think it would be better if I were to deal first with the claim that the 
blasting hour should be incorporated within the present recess of 12 to 1-30. or 
within the reduced recess as required by labour, between 12 and 1. I have visit- 
ed the site. This quarry area is alongside a main road and blasting is done under 
licence issued by the Police. One of the terms of the licence is that the blasting 
charges at a quarry shall not be exploded save between the hours mentioned in 
the licence, but no hours have been mentioned. It is however common ground 
that the blasting In this, area is done hetweeo 3 and 3-30 p.m. after the Police have 
made arrangements for the stoppage of traffic along this road during this period 
of half an hour. It is not disputed that the Police likewise have to make similar 
arrangements during blasting at other places within the contiguous region. It is 
therefore evident that the Police have to adjust the timings of the different blast- 
ings so as to provide for their own convenience in the matter of arrangements. 
They have fixed upon the period between 3 and 3-30 for this particular quarry 
area, and the management cannot be blamed for this arrangement. Nor would 
it be easy to have the hours altered by the Police having regard to their other 
commitments; and it has not been suggested that there are complaints from the 
other five quarries immediately adjacent to the quarry before me regarding the 
blasting hours, In the circumstances it is not possible to direct the management 
to change its blasting hours when in effect the management has very little or 
no control over the subject. 

7. As regards the other claim, for the reduction of the 14 hour lunch recess to 
one hour, I have heard parties on their relevant contentions. As I havei said 
before, the permanent staff under the management consists of just 12 workers of 
whom 4 are on the crushing machine. There arc in addition a person to look 
after the managerial work; a person who issues tools, gunpowder etc; a mukka- 
dam; and the foreman of the crushing section. These last four have to go far 
in order to secure their midday meal and have not asked for any reduction in 
the lunch recess, whereas the permanent workers have their habitation near the 
auarry. Then again I have to consider the mechanical and transport staff who 
also have to go some distance in order to secure their midday meal. They have 
not complained that the recess is too long. It may be that the 12 permanent 
workmen can do with half hour less for their lunch interval, but 1 am bound to 
balance the requirements of the other persons when deciding whether the recess 
hours should be reduced. Upon a consideration of the matter I do not feel that 



Sec. S (11)] THE GAZETTE 6E INbtA : NOVEMBER 29, iOM/AGRAHAVAnA 8, 1880 2615 


I would be justified in directing a reduction of the lunch hour recess from li 
hours to 1 hour, and in coming to this decision I have naturally been influenced 
by circumstances like the situation of the quarry and facilities which are available 
to the staff for securing a meal and reet in the vicinity, and the prevailing practice 
in the area. 

8. In the result I am unable to grant the two claims which have been pressed 
by labour. 

0. Now, therefore, I make an award in terms aforesaid. 

The 3rd November, 1958. 

(Sd.) F. Jmjbbbhoy, 

Chairman, Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, 
functioning as the Sole Member, Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, with headquarters at 

Bombay. 


[No. LRII/03(*)/88.] 

S.O. 2483.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 
(14 of 1047), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the M/s. S. K. Sahana and Sons (P) Ltd. and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL DHANBAD 

Reference No. 37 of 1058 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Mica Mines of Messrs. S. K. Sahana and Sons 
Limited. 


AMD 

Their workmen. 

Dated the 31st October, 1958. 

PRESENT: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, B.A., LL.B., Chairman. 

Appearances: 

Shri R, B. Sahana, Director, Messrs S. K. Sahana & Sons Ltd . — for the 
employers. 

Shri Yash Raj Singh, General Secretary, Mica Labour Union — for the 
workmen. 

State : Bihar, Industry : Mica. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour & Employment, by Order 
No. LRII/0(3)/58 dated 11th June, 1958 made In exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (XIV of 47), was pleased to refer to me for adjudication the industrial dis- 
pute between thei parties above named regarding the question whether the refusal 
of the management to employ the 59 workers listed in the schedule to the said 
order since 21st February, 1958 was justified and, If not, to what relief they 
are entitled. 

2. After the usual notices were issued, the written statement of claim on 
behalf of the workmen was filed by Shri Yash Raj Singh General Secretary, 
Mica Labour Union on 30th June, 1958 and the written statement in reply was 
received from the employers Messrs. S. K, Sahana & Sons (Private) Limited 
on 3rd July, 1958 and the written statement was also received on behalf of the 
Joint Receivers on 8th July, 1958 When the dispute was fixed for hearing, the 
parties took several adjournments to reach a settlement and on the adjourned 
hearing on 30th October, 1958 the parties filed a joint application recording the 
terms of settlement that had been reached between them and prayed that an 
award be made in terms thereof. A copy of the said application is annexed 
hereto and marked Annexure ‘A’ and being satisfied that the terms of settlement 
are fair and reasonable, I hereby make an award in terms thereof, as far as they 
concern the subject matter of the dispute. 



26 l 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1 950/AC RA HA YANA 8 , 1880 [Part ll 


3. No order as to costs. 


Dhanbad , the 31st October, 1958. 


(Sd.) Sai.im M. Merchant, Chairman, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 


ANNEXURlfi A 

BEFORE THE CHAIRMAN, CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

DHANBAD. 


Reference No. 37 of 1958. 
M/s. S. K. Sahana & Sons Ltd. 


And 

their workmen of Mines. 

We the parties to the dispute beg to state that we make the settlement as 
follows: — 

1. The company has already rc-employed in service 26 workmen out of 59 

workmen mentioned in the Schedule in Government Reference No 37 of 1958 
as per list attached. ' ’ 

2. The management further agrees to reinstate the remaining 33 workmen no 
sooner they report for work. 

3. It is further agreed that the management will make the payments in respect 
of monthly Bonus for August, and September 1957 to the workers by the end of 
December 1958. 

4. We the parties further pray, that the Tribunal may grant an Award in terms 
of the aforesaid agreement, 

Representative of workmen: 

(Sd.) Yash Raj Singh, 

General Secretary, 

Mica Labour Union. 

Dhanbad, 30th day of October 1958, 


(Sd.) R. B, Sahana, 

For M/s. S. K. Sahana & Sons Ltd. 
representative of management. 

List of Labourers working In the mine 

Araria Mine. 

1. Sri goman Singh. 

2. Sri Lalit Chgmar. 

3. Sri Sogna Bhula. 

4. Sri Jagdish Bhuia. 

5. Sri Laldhari Singh, 

6. Sri Dhanu Turl. 

7. Sri Kewal Singh, 

8. Sri Deoki Singh. 

9. Sri Rohan Singh. 

10. Sri Lakshman Ram 

11. Sri Lalu Ram. 

12. Sri Janki Mahto. 

13. Sri Kali Dusad. 

14. Sri BIfa Bhuia. 

18. Sri Gopal Turk 

Kerw atari Mine. 

1. Sri Badri Prosad, 

Mejhli Mine. 

1. Sri Horil Barhl, 

2. Sri Ramlall Dusadh, 

3. Sri Rhiki Ram, 

4. Sri Mahablr Dusadh 

5. Sri Janki Kandu. 



Sec. 3 


boj 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/AGRA HA YANA 8 , I8R0 2617 


6. Sri Meghan Dusadh. 

7. Sri Keramat Mian. 

8. Sri I.aldhari Singh. 

9. Sri Lalit Bhula. 

10. Sri Chhota Bhuia. 

Sd. Yash Raj Singh, 

Representative of workmen 

Dhanbad, 

The Wth October 1958. 

(Sd.) R, B. Sahana, 
Director, 

M/s, S. K. Sahana & Sons Ltd. 
Representative of management. 

[No. LRII/6(3)/58J 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29 th November 1958 

S.O. 2484. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Noodit-Jitpur Colliery of 
India Iron and Steel Company Ltd, and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the reversion of Shri Ram Lall from the post of an office peon to the 
post of a Shale picker by the management of Noodit-Jitpur Cel'iery la justified 
and if not, to what relief is he entitled and from what date? 


[No. LRII-2(157) 58.] 
K. D, HAJELA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 24 th November 1958 

S.O. 2485. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shrl Gurbhachan Singh Jabbi, Additional Chief Inspector of Mines, to 
be the Chief Inspector of Mines for all the territories to which the said Act 
extends, with ellect from the 20th November, 1958, vice Shri Sarwan Singh 
Grewal, granted leave. 

[No. M.1. 8(37)58.] 
S. RANGASWAMI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 24 th November 1958 

S.O. 2486. — In pursuance of section 8 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates Shri M. S. 
Bhatnagar, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, to 
be a member of the Standing Committee of the Employees’ State Insurance Cor- 
poration in the place of Shri A. V. Venkateswnran, and makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment No. S.R.O. 2360, dated the 5th October, 1956, namely; — 

In the said notification, for item (3), the following item shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(3) Shri M. S, Bhatnagar, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance.” 


[No. F. HI-l(72)/58.] 



^8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 29, 195R/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


S.O. 2487. — In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates Shri M. S. Bhat- 
nagar, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Finance to be a 
member of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation in the place of Shri A. V. 
V’enkateswaran, and makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. 
rll-l ( 190) /57, dated the 15th March, 1958. namely:— 

In the said notification, under the heading ‘Members’, for item 5, the follow- 
ing item shall be substituted namely: — 

“5. Shri M. S. Bhatnagar, Joint Seeretaiy to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance.” 

[No, F. HI-1 (72) /58.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


Neiv Delhi, the 2 4th November 1958 

S.O. 2488 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by, section 7B of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes a 
National Industrial Tribunal with headquarters at Bombay and appoints Shri 
F. Jeejeebhoy, Chairman, Labour Appellate Tribunal, Bombay as the presiding 
Officer of that Tribunal. 

[No. LR-IV -3 ( 40)/58-I.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24 th November 1958 

S.O. 2489. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the dispute 
exists between the Cantonment Boards specified in Schedule I hereto annexed 
and '^heir workmen on one or more of the matters specified in Schedule II 
hereto annexed, being a dispute which is of such a nature that industrial 
establishments situated in more than one State are likely to be Interested in. 
or affected by, such dispute. 

And, whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that the dispute should 
be adjudicated by a National Tribunal: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (IA) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). the Central Gov 1 - 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute to the National Tribunal constituted by 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment No. S.O. 2488, dated the 24th November, 1958, for adjudication. 


SciIEDUt.K I 


1. Agra 

31. Jutogh 

2. Ahmedabad 

32. Kamptee 

3. Ahmednagar 

33. Kanpur 

4. Allahabad 

34. Kasauli 

B. Almora 

35. Kirkee 

6. Amritsar 

36. Khasyal 

7. Ambala 

37. I>andour 

8. Aurangabad 

38. Lansdowne 

9. Bakloh 

39. Lebong 

10. Banaras 

40 Lucknow 

11. Badamibagh 

* 41. Mathura 

12. Barrackpore 

42. Meerut 

13. Bareilly 

43. Mhow 

14. Belgaum 

44 Morar 

15. Chakrata 

45. Nainital 

IB. Clement Town 

46. Nasirabad 

17. Dagshai. 

47. Pachmarhi 

18, Dalhousie 

48. Poona 

19. Delhi 

49 . Ramgarh 

”0. Debra Dun. 

so. Ranikhet 

21. Deolali 

51 . Roorkee 

22. Dlnapore 

52 Sagar 

23. Falzabad 

53. St, Thomas Mt. 

24. Fatehgarh 

54, Secunderabad 

25. Ferozepore 

55. Shahjahanpur 

28. Jalapahar 

56. Shillong 

27. Jabalpur 

47. Subathu 

78. Jhansi 

58. Wellington 

29, Jammu 

59. Cannanore 

30, Jullundur 

60. Dehu Road. 



3*0. 3 (ii)] ' THE GAZETTE O I INDIA : NOVEMBER "9. 1958/ AGRA H A YA N A 8 . 1880 2619 


Schedule II 

1. Whether or not the services of the Cantonment Board workmen should 

be centralized? 

2. Whether promotions be given strictly according to seniority of the 

workmen If not, what should be the criteria for promotion and 
what should be seniority list in each category of workmen? 

3. Whether or not the pay scales enjoyed by the Central Government 

employees should be made applicable to the workmen of the 
Cantonment Board? If not, whether the pay scales of the workmen 
of a Cantonment Board should be revised and reflxed according 
to the pay scales applicable to workmen of the adjoining Munici- 
pality? 

4. Whether or not the Cantonment Board workmen are entitled to the 

payment of dearness allowance at Central Government rates? 

5. Whether or not the contribution to the provident fund by the Board 

authority should be equal to that of the workmen? 

6. Whether or not the workmen should be allowed house rent allowance? 

7. Whether or not the Cantonment Board authorities be required to make 

a provision for payment of gratuity to their workmen at the time 
of their retirement. If so, at what rates? 

8. Whether or not SO 1 /! of dearness allowance being paid to the workmen 

be merged with their pay? 

9. Whether or not the workmen and their dependents should be allowed 

free medical aid? 

10. Whether or not the workmen employed in essential services should be 

allowed festival and other holidays as are allowed to the office staff? 

11. Whether clause (e) of sub-rule (1) of rule 8 of the Cantnoment Fund 

Servants Rules, 1937 Is unreasonable? If so in what manner should 
it be amended? 

12. Extension of service to the Cantonment Fund employees at the time of 

their retirement. 


[No. LR-IV-3 (40)/ 58-11.] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd November 1958 

S.O. 3490. — The Central Government hereby: 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the, Govern- 

ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S.R.O. 3805, dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcasting No. S O. 2134, dated the, 1st October, 1958, that 
the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 
shall consist of 32 members with immediate efflect; and 

(b) appoints, after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 

Shrimati Chandravati Lakhanpal, M.P., as a Member of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 
(2) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958: — 

[No. 11/1/58-FC.] 

D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 195* 




