VI- ^ 

REGISTERED No. D. 22g- 



«Fif8'» 4 4# 


India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 5] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 30, 1954 


NOTICE 


n.tt undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 23rd 
January 19E4 : — 


V 

Issue 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

No 



13 

S.R.O, 234. dated 

Delimitation Com- 

Corrections in the Final Order No. 7, 

the 18th January, 

mission, India. 

dated the 25 th December, 1953. 


1954. 


(S. R. O. 2377). 

14 

S.R.O. 235, dated 

Election Commission, 

Election Petition No. 227/7 of 1952, 

the 8th January, 
1954 

India. 

i 

! 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach 'he 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 21 st January 1954 


S.R.O. 334. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 114 of the Represent ation of 
the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1951, the names 
of the person shown in column 1 of the Schedule below, who having been nomi- 
nated as candidates for election to the House of the People from the constituency 
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof and each having appoint- 
ed himself to be his election agent at the said election, have, in accordance with 
the decision given by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, 
failed to lodge the returns of election expenses within the time and in the 
manner required and have thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause 

( 231 ) 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(c) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(XLIII of 1951), are hereby published:— 

Schedule 

Name of the candidate 

i 

Name of constituency 

Shri Babu Lai of Aligarh 

Shri Natha Ram of Nagla Jogiya 

Aligarh District 

Aligarh District 


[No. UP-P/52(92).] 


S.R.O. 335— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 114 of the Representation of ' 
the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1951, the name 
of the person shown in the Schedule below who having been nominated as a 
cadidate for bye-elcction to the Council of States by the elected members of the 
Andhra Legislative Assembly, and having appointed himself to be his election 
agent, at the said bye-election, has, in accordance with the decision given by the 
Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule 114, failed to lodge the 
return of election expenses within the time and in the manner required and has 
thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause (c) of section 7 and section 
143 of the Representation of the People Act (XLIII of 1951), is hereby published:—' 

Schedule 

Shri Gottemukkala Ramachandra Raju. 

[No. AD-CS/53(l)/Bye.] 
By Order, 

P. R, KRISHNAMURTHY, Asstt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1954 

S.R.O. 336. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon him by clause (1) of 
article 103 of the Constitution, and acting in accordance with the opinion of the 
Election Commission obtained under clause (2) of the said article and set out in 
the Appendix hereto, the President has rejected the petition, dated the 23rd 
October, 1953, submitted by Shri Shankar Trlpathi against Shri J. N. Wilson, 
a Member of the House of the People, 

Appendix 

ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
Opinion 

In re: Shri J. N. Wilson, M.P. 

This is a petition submitted to the President under article 102 of the Consti- 
tution by Shri Shankar Trlpathi, who at the last general elections was a contesting 
candidate for election in the Mirzapur District-cum-Banaras District (West) 
Parliamentary constituency, alleging that the returned candidate, Shri J. N. Wilson, 
incurred disqualification for membership of the House of the People for “contra- 
vening the President’s notification issued under section 15 of R.P. Act, 1951, and 
using aeroplane against the provisions of sub-section 6 of section 123 of R.P. Act, 
1951“. Earlier, Shri Tripathi filed an election petition, on 6th May 1952, challeng- 
ing the election of Shri Wilson, and the Tribunal dismissed that petition by its 
order, dated the 22nd December. 1952. The order of the Tribunal took effect on 
the 29th December, 1952, on publication in the Gazette of India. Shri Tripathi has 
stated that he has filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court for quashing the 
findings and order of the Tribunal, and to declare him duly elected in place of 
Shri Wilson, 

It is not quite clear from the .petition what exactly are the grounds on which 
Shri Tripathi has raised the question of Shri Wilson’s disqualification under article 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1964 233 


102 of the Constitution. It seems, his contention is that as Shri Wilson used ah 
aeroplane in connection with his election campaign, and as the use of the aero- 
plane was permitted by the District Magistrate, a major corrupt practice was 
committed within the meaning of section 123(6) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and therefore, Shri Wilson is disqualified for being a member 
of the House of the People. This was also one of the main points on which the 
election petition was filed by Shri Tripathi and an issue (No. 8) was specifically 
framed by the Tribunal to decide the point. The Tribunal, however, came to the 
conclusion that the use of the aeroplane by Shri Wilson did not amount to a 
corrupt practice. 

Under article 329(b) of the Constitution, no election to the House of the 
People can be called in question except by an election petition, and since the 
petition filed by Shri Tripathi has been dismissed, it is not permissible for him 
to re-agitate the question in another form, 

Clause (e) of article 102 of the Constitution under which the question of 
Shri Wilson’s disqualification has been raised by Shri Tripathi relates to dis- 
qualification by or under any law made by Parliament. It therefore seems Shri 
Tripathi’s contention is that Shri Wilson is disqualified under section 7(a) of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 for having committed a major corrupt 
practice mentioned in section 140 of that Act. But as the Tribunal has specifically 
recorded that no corrupt practice was committed by Shri Wilson, the question of 
any disqualification under section 7(a) of the Representation of the People Act, 
1961 read with article 102 of the Constitution, does not arise. 

■" The Commission is therefore of the opinion that the petition should be rejected 
and it should be decided that Shri Wilson, M.P., has not become subject to any of 
the disqualifications mentioned in article 102 of the Constitution. 

The 28th December 1953. (Sd.) S. Sen, 

Chief Election Commissioner. 


[No. F.69(3)/58-L.] 
K. V. K. SUNDAHAM, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1964 

S.R.O. 337. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ment shall be made In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Law No. S.R.O. 215 dated the 9th February, 1952, relating to the execution 
of contracts and assurances of property, namely: — - 

In Part V of the said notification, under Head A, in item 3, after the words 
"by Collectors of Districts”, the words "or Circle Superintendents, 
Central Department of Archaeology ” shall be added. 


[F. 32-III/52-L.] 
B. N. LOKUR, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 20 th January 1954 

S.R.O. 338. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution and 
in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the late Depart- 
ment of Communications No. R-60, dated the 28th June, 1939, the President hereby 
directs that the Chief Commissioners of Delhi, Ajmer and Coorg shall, subject to 
the control of the President and until further orders, exercise the powers and 
discharge the functions of the State Government under the Motor Vehicles Act, 
1939 (IV of 1939) within their respective States. 


[No. 43/36/53- Judl-I.] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


S.R.O. 339. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 243 of the Constitution and 
in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the late Depart- 
ment of Communications No. R-GO, dated the 28th June, 1939 the President hereby 
directs that the Chief Commissioner of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands shall, 
subject to the control of the President and until further orders, exercise the powers 
and discharge the functions of the State Government under the Motor Vehicles 
Act, 1939 (IV of 1939) within the said Islands. 

[No. 43/36/53- Judl-II.] 
N. SAHGAL, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 21st January 1954 

S.R.O. 340. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (21 uf section 
63 of the Andhra State Act, 1953 (30 of 1953), the President hereby requires all 
persons specified by name in column (1) or by official designation in column (2) 
of the Schedule to this Order, to serve in connection with the affairs of the State 
of Andhra, as allotted officers or as transferred officers, as stated in the corres- 
ponding entries in column (3) of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Name 

i 

Official Designation 

2 

Allotted Officer or 
Transferred Officer 

3 

V. Kannan 

Madras Women’s Welfare Department 

Headquarters establishment. 

. . Peon ..... 

Allotted Officer. 

D. Pachiappan 

. . Peon ..... 

Allotted Officer. 

Sri A, N. Damodaram Naidu 

Madras Highways Department 

. . Technical Assistant to the 

Allotted Officer. 

Sri J. I. Coil Pillai . 

Chief Engineer (Highways). 

Madras Public Works Department 

Executive Engineer 

Transferred Officer. 


[No. 20/4/53-AIS (I) .] 
N. N. CHATTERJEE, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STATES 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1954 

S.R.O. 341. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1, Shri Ranjitsinhji Harbhamji, and 

2, Shri Prabhatsinhji Harbhamji, 

members of the family of the Ruler of Morvi for the purposes of that entry. 

This Ministry’s notification No. S.R.O. 2211, dated the 1st December 1953 is 

hereby cancelled. 


[No. 7-D,] 

S. K. AYANGAR, Under Secy. 




Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1964 235 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Department of Economic Affairs 

New Delhi, the 19th January 1954 

S.R.O. 342. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 33 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (X of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 11 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Premier Bank of India Ltd. for a period up 
to and including the 31st March 1955. 

[No. F.4(2) -F.I/54.] 
N. C. SEN GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


Department of Economic Affairs 

Chartered Accountancy 
New Delhi, the 30 th January 1964 

S.R.O. 343. — In pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 13 of the Chartered 
Accountants Act, 1949 (Act No. XXXVIII of 1949), the Central Government hereby 
nominates Mr. F. A. Cole of Messrs. A. F. Ferguson & Co., Allahabad Bank Build- 
ings, Apollo Street, Bombay to the Council of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India vice Mr, A. H. Just, resigned. 

[No. 65(3)-ICA/63.] 
B. K. KAUL, Dy. Secy. 


Office of the Controller of Capital Issues 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23 rd January, 1964 

S.R.O. 344. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
6 of the Capital Issues (Continuance of Control) Act, 1947 (XXIX of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the Capital Issues (Exemption) Order, 1949, published with the Order of the 
Government of India In the Ministry of Finance No. F.14(l)-CCI/49, dated the 
20th January, 1949, and that the said amendment shall be deemed to have had 
etlect as from the 31st January, 1963, namely: — 

For sub-clause (c) of clause 3 of the said Order, the following sub-clause shall 
oe substituted, namely: — 

“(c) Loans granted, and debentures taken up, by the Industrial Finance 
Corporation constituted under the Industrial Finance Corporation 
Act, 1948 (XV of 1948), or any State Financial Corporation constitu- 
ted under the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (LXIII of 1961) 
or by the Madras Industrial Investment Corporation Limited.” 

[No. F. 14(5)-CCI/53/2U.] 

D. L. MAZUMDAR, 
Controller of Capital Issues. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1954 

S.R.O. 345. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 8 of 
the Central Excise Rules, 1944, the Central Government hereby directs that power 
alcohol shall bo exempt from the whole of the duty leviable thereon under section 
3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), provided that: — 

(i) it is proved to the satisfaction of the Collector of Central Excise that 
such power alcohol is intended for use in the manufacture of acetic 
acid and ethyl acetate, and shall not be used for providing motive 
power for any form of motor vehicle or aircraft, and 



236 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(ii) the procedure set out in Chapter X of the said Rules is followed in 
respect of obtaining remission of duty on such power alcohol. 

[No. 2.] 

M. P, ALEXANDER, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1954 

S.R.O. 346. — In pursuance of sub-section (4) of Section 5 of the Indian Income- 
tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue directs that the follow- 
ing further amendments shall be made in the Schedule appended to its Notification 
No. 32-IT, dated the 9th November, 1946: — - 

In the said Schedule, under the sub-head “III-A Bombay North.”. — 

(1) Against Ahmedabad Range II, the entry “Ahmedabad Circle II, exclud- 

ing Ward-C”, shall be substituted for the existing entry “Ahmedabad 
Circle II”; 

(2) Against Ahmedabad Range III, the entries “Ahmedabad Circle II, Ward-* 

C" and “Petlad Circle” shall be added after the existing entry 
“Viramgam Circle”; and 

(3) Against Baroda Range, the last entry “Petlad Circle” shall be deleted. 

[No. 5.J 

G. L. POPHALE, Secy, 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

. Agriculture 

New Delhi, the 20 th January 1954 

S.R.O, 347. — The following draft of certain rules which it is proposed to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (I of 1937), is published as required by the said 
section, for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice 
is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 20th 
February, 1954. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft rules 

1. Short title and application.— ( i) These rules may be called the Essential Oils 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1953. 

(ii) They shall apply to essential oils produced in India. 

2. Grade designations. — Grade designations to indicate the quality of essential 
oils produced in India shall be as set out in column I of Schedules III and IV 
annexed to the Rules. 

3. Definition of quality. — The quality indicated by the grade designations shall 
be as set out against such designations in columns 2 to 7 of Schedules III and IV 
annexed to the Rules. 

4. Grade designation marks.— The grade designation mark shall consist of a 
label, bearing a design (consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
“AGMARK” and the figure of the rising Sun with words "Produce of India”) 
resembling that set out in Schedule I specifying the name of the essential oil, the 
grade designation and in colours specified in the aforesaid Schedule. 

5. Method of Marking.— (i) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
applied to each container in the manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser to the Government of India and the following particulars shall be marked 
on the container or the label: — 

(a) name of packer; 

(b) place of packing; 

(c) date of packing; and 

(d) lot number. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 237 


(ii) An authorised packer may after obtaining the previous approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India, mark his private 
trade mark on a container in a manner approved by the said officer: Provided 
that the private trade mark does not represent quality or grade of essential oil 
different from that indicated by the grade designation mark affixed on the con- 
tainer in accordance with the said Rules. 

(iii) Only clean containers which shall be securely closed and sealed in a 
manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India shall be used for packing. 

6. Special conditions of certificate of authorisation. — In addition to the condi- 
tions specified In rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, the con- 
ditions set out in Schedule II, shall also be the conditions subject to which a certi- 
ficate of authorisation is issued for the purposes of rules. 

Schedule I 

(a) Grade designation mark for Essential Oils. 

(See rule 4) 



Grade designation 

Special 
Grade A 


Colour ot lettering chowing the 
grade 

Red 

Green 


Colour of border of the labe 


Red 

Green 


238 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


(ii) Sandalwood oil. 

Grade designation Colour of lettering showing the Colour of border of the label 

grade 

Grade A Red Red 

Schedule II 
(See rule 6) 

(a) An authorised packer shall have suitable arrangements for filtration, 
blending, and storage of essential oils. 

(b) If an authorised packer handles more than one essential oil on the same 
premises, adequate precautions shall be taken to avoid the mixing of different oils. 

(c) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing essential 
oils as mav be prescribed, and a duplicate sample from each lot of essential oil 
to be graded shall be forwarded to such Control Laboratory as may be notified 
from time to time by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India. 

(d) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling, analysis packing etc. 
which may from time to time be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to 
the Government of India, consistent with the provisions of the Act and the rules 
made thereunder, shall be strictly observed. 

Schedule HI* * * § 

Grade designations and definition of quality of East Indian Letnongrass Oil ( Cochin Lemongrass Oil) 

(See rules 2 and 3) 


Phyaiochemical characteristics 


Grade 

designation 

1 

Specific 

gravity 

at 30°/30° C.f 

2 

Optical 

rotation 

3 

Refractive Total Solubility 

Index at aldehyde in 70% 
30° C4 (Citral) (by volume) 

content ethyl 

(determined alcohol 
by bisulphite 
method) § 

4 5 6 

Description and 
appearance 

7 

Special . 

. 0-888 to 

§1 0 to 

1-4808 to Not Icbs than Soluble 

The East Indian 

o- 898 

—3” 

1-4868 80% in 2 to 3 

volumes. 

Lemongrass oil 

shall be the reddish- 


yellow to brown 
mobile essential oil 
obtained by the 
process of steam 
distillation and/or 
water distillation 
of clean Cymbopogon 
flexuousus (D.C.) 
Staff, plants and 

Grade A . 0-888 to §1° to 3' 1-480810 Not less Soluble in shall be free from 

0-898 1-4868 than 76% 2 to 3 admixture with any 

volumes, other oil or subs- 
tance. 

It shall have a lemon- 
like odour and shall 
be clear, free from 
any sediment, and 
suspended matter. 
It shall be dry. 


* The specifications are based on The Indian Standard Specification For Lemongrass Oil 

(IS : 327-1952). 

t The correction factor for specific gravity for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be — o ■ 00079. ry* r 

1 The correction factor for refractive index for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be — 0-00044. 

§ The actual citral content shall be suitably indicated. 



Part II— Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30 , 1954 239 

Schedule IV* 

Grade designations and definition of Quality of East Indian Sandalwood Oil 
( See rules 2 and 3) 


Physiochcmical characteristics 


Grade 

designation 

Specific 
Gravity 
at 3o'’/30° 

Optical 

rotation 

c*t 

Refractive 
index at 
30 ° C.J 

Total Solubility 
alcohol in 70% 

(Santalol) (by Volume) 
content ethyl 

alcohol 

Description and 
appearance 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 6 

7 


The East Indian 
Sandalwood oil 
shall be the pale- 
yellow or nearly 
colourless essential 
oil obtained by 
steam distillation 
and/or water dis- 
tillation of Santalum 
album, Linn only, 
and shall be free 
from admixture 
with any other oil 
or substance. 

Grade A , 0 9620 to — 15 0 to 1 • 4990 to Not Icbs Soluble in 5 It shall be clear, free 

O' 9760 — 20 0 1-5060 than 90% volumes from sediment and 

suspended matter. 
It shall be dry and 
shall have the 
characteristic faint 
but persistent odour 
and unpleasant 
taste. 


* The specifications are based on the Indian Standard Specification for Sandalwood Oil 
(IS : 329-1952.) 

t The correction factor for specific gravity for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be — 0-00070. 

t The correction factor for refractive index for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be — 0 - 00039. 

[No. F. 5 -86/j2-Dte.IIJ 
S. D. UDKRAIN, Utjder Secy. 


(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 21 st January 1954 

S.K.O. 348 . — The following draft of the following further amendments to the 
Indian Oilseeds Committee Rules, 1947 , which it is proposed to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1945 
(IX of 1946 ), is published as required by sub-section ( 1 ) of the said section, for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given 

that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 20 th February 
1 Qp;d. J ' 


Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered bv the Central 
Government. 



.1240 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1854 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Draft Amendments 


In the said rules: — 

(1) in rule 24, sub-rule (3) shall be omitted and sub-rule (4) shall be re-number- 
-ed as sub-rule (3). 

(21 in rule 25, alter sub-rule (1) the following sub-rule may be inserted, 
.namely: — 

(1A) The President of the Committee may sanction a variation in any 
approved scheme upto the following financial limits, namely: — 

(a) where the cost of the approved scheme is Rs. 50,000 or less, Rs. 5,000; 

(b) where the cost of the approved scheme exceeds Rs. 50,000, Rs. 10,000 

provided that such variation is not inconsistent with the nature and 
object of the scheme itself. 

[No. F.5-109/51-Com-I.] 
F. C. GERA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 18 th January 1954 

S.R.O. 349.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Cinemato- 
graph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby directs that 
the film entitled ‘My Son John’ in respect of which ‘U’ certificate No. 7264, dated 
the 15th December 1952 was granted by the Central Board of Film Censors to 
‘Messrs. Paramount Films of India Ltd,, Bombay, shall be deemed to be an uncer- 
-tifled film in the whole of India. 

[F. No. 12/28/53-FII.] 
D. KRISHNA AYYAAR, Under Scry. 
New Delhi, the 19 th January 1954 

S.R.O. 350. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 17 of the Cinemato- 
graph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby exempts 
-cinematograph exhibition of educational films in the premises of educational insti- 
tutions in all Part ‘C’ States from the operation of section 10 of the aforesaid Act, 
subject to the following conditions: — 

1. Only films of a predominantly educational nature, certified as such by 

the Central Board of Film Censors or one of the former State Boards, 
shall be so exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

2. No film which has been certified by the Central Board of Film Censors 

or a former State Board of Film Censors as suitable for public exhibi- 
tion restricted to adults only shall De exhibited or permitted th be 
exhibited to a person who is not an adult. 

3. No film which has been declared as uncertified or whose exhibition has 

been suspended under the Cinematograph Act 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) 
shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

4. No admission fee, except to the extent required to cover expenses, shall 

be charged. 

5. No person other than students and staff of the institution, members of the 

Managing Committees of the institutions and any guest specially 
invited by the authorities of the institutions and 'those enumerated 
under condition (11) below shall be admitted to the show. 

6. Only 16 mm. non-inflammable or 35 mm. non-inflammable films and film- 

strips shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

'7. No advertisement films shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

8. The licensing authority shall be informed at least 48 hours in advance of 

the time and place of such exhibition. 

9. All institutions which avail Ihemselves of this exemption shall maintain 

a register of the films exhibited and comply with any other directions 
that may be issued in this behalf by the State Government The 
register shall be open to inspection by duly authorised ofiicers of the 
State Government. 

:I0. This exemption shall be valid for a period of one year with effect from 
the date of issue of this notification, unless revoked earlier. 



241 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


11. Employees of the State Government, members of the Central Board of 
Film Censors and of its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant 
Regional Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their official 
duties shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions are held 
and to the film shows. 

[No. 20/14/51-FII.] 
C. B. RAO, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 22 nd January 1954 

S.R.O. 351.— The Central Government being satisfied that it is in the public 
interest so to do, is pleased, in exercise of its powers under Section 12 of the 
Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act (LIII of 1948) to authorise 
the grant by the Government of West Bengal of certificates of approval, exploring 
licences, prospecting licenses and mining leases as provided in sub-clause (a) of 
clause 1 of the Joint Operating Agreement dated 24th December 1953 between the 
Standard Vacuum Oil Company and the Government of India. 

[No, 179(1) /54-MlI.] 
M. MALHOTRA, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 
(Central Boilers Board) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1954 

S.R.O. 352. — The following draft of certain amendments to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950, which the Central Boilers Board propose to make in exercise 
of the power conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 (V of 1923), 
is published as required bv sub-section (1) of section 31 of the said Act, for 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is thereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st March 
1954. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Boilers Board. Such objections or suggestions should be addressed to the Secre- 
tary, Central Boilers Board, Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, North Block, 
New Delhi. 


Draft Amendments 

In the said Regulations — 

1. In regulation 392, 

(i) For the existing heading, the following heading shall be substituted, 

namely — 

“Repairs to Boilers and Steam Pipes”. 

(ii) After the word “girders” appearing in the fourth line, the words “and 

steam pipes” shall be Inserted. 

2. In Regulation 281, the following words shall be added at the end, namely — 

“In the case of boilers fitted with integral superheaters, an additional safety 
valve shall be fitted at the end of the outlet header”. 

3. For Regulation 534 the following shall be substituted, namely— 

(a) Every economiser shall have a plate with its registry number engraved, 

secured In a conspicuous place and wherever practicable stamped for 
identification with that number in a prominent place, 

(b) A letter “E” shall be prefixed to the registry number in the denomi- 

nator of the appropriate device as shown in Regulation 382, Example; 
UP 53. 

E 



242 


THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


4. In regulation 123, after clause (a) the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

"(aa) In the case of vertical boilers where tube plates form part of the 
1 firebox, the tube plate portion may be constructed in two vertical 

sections and the vertical seams when welded shall be stress relieved.” 

5. In Regulation 316, in clause (b) the words “riveted to the shell” appearing 
in the second line shall be omitted. 

6. In Regulation 314, after the words “on end” the words “on a horizontal 
plane” shall be inserted. 

[No. BL-304(12)/53.] 

S.R.O. 353.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 (V of 1923), the Central Boilers Board hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 
1950, the same having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) 
of section 31 of the said Act, namely. — 

After clause (c) of regulation 335 of the said Regulations, the following clause 
shall be inserted, namely: — ■ 

“(d) The discharge end of feed pipe shall be so located that it is not close 
to any riveted joint of the furnace plates or of the shell.” 

[No. BL-304(3)/52.] 

S.R.O. 354.— In pursuance of clause (c) of regulation 4 of the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950, the Central Boilers Board hereby recognises the following 
further firms as ‘ Well-known” Steel Makers in terms of the Indian Boiler Regu- 
lations, 1950, namely: — 

1. Messrs. South Durham Steel & Iron Co. Ltd., United Kingdom. 

2. Messrs. Steel Company of Scotland Ltd., United Kingdom. 

[No. BL-334(l)/62.] 

H. K. BANSAL, 

Secretary, Central Boilers Board. 


REGISTRAR JOINT STOCK COMPANIES 
NOTICES 

Bombay, the 20 th January, 1954 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Karnatak 
Tractor Cultivation & Allied Industries Limited. 

S.R.O. 355. — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the Karnatak Tractor Cultivation & Allied Industries Limited, 
will, unless cause is shown to the contrary, be struck off the Register and the 
said’ Company will be dissolved. 1 

[No. 8755.] 


Bombay, the 24 th January, 1964 

In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Shreedhar & 

Co., Limited. 

S.R.O. 356. — Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913, that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the Shreedhar & Co., Limited., will, unless cause is shown to 
the contrary, be struck off the Register and the said Company will be dissolved. 

[No. 6431.] 

M. V. VARERKAR, 
Registrar of Companies, Bombay. 



243 


Paht II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi , the 22nd January, 1954 

S.R.O. 357. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-see+ion (21 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Ordinance, 1954 
(No. 3 of 1954), I delegate the powers specified below to all the Settlement Com- 
missioners to be exercised by them in relation to revision of eases to be decided 
under the said Ordinance: — 

Proviso to Sub-Section (3) of Section 4.- — Power to call for the record of 
any case which has been decided by the Settlement Officer and to 
make such order as he thinks fit. 


[No. 3 ( 2) CSC/ Genl./C.W./54. ] 

S.R.O. 358. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub-sect ; on (2) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Ordinance, 1954 
(No. 3 of 1954) , I delegate the powers specified below to Shri R. K. Vaish, 
Settlement Commissioner to be exercised by him for performing the functions 
assigned to me under the Ordinance: — 

1. Proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 4. — Power to allocate or distribute 

eases to be decided by Settlement Officers. 

2. Proviso to subsection (2) of section 6. — Power to require a Settlement 

Officer to appoint one or more persons as assessors to advise him in 

any proceeding before him. 

3. Section 7.— Power to transfer a case pending before a Settlement Officer 

to another Settlement Officer. 


[No. 3 (2-a) CSC/Genl./C.W./54,] 

S.R.O. 359. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub-section (2) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Ordinance, 1954 
(No. 3 of 1954), I delegate the powers specified below to all the Settlement 
Commissioners and Additional Settlement Commissioners to be exercised by them 
in relation to revision of cases decided under the Principal Act: — 

Section 5.— Special powers of revision in respect of the cases decided under 
the Principal Act 


LNo. 3(3) CSC / Genl./C.W./ 54 1 
N. C. SHRIVASTAVA, 

Chief Settlement Commissioner 
i & Joint Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 20 th January 1954 

S.R.O. 360.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
19 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 <XI of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 1852, dated the 3rd 
October, 1953, namely: — 

In the schedule to the said notification in column 2 for the entry “The States 
of Madras, Mysore, Travancore-Cochin and Coorg” the entry “The States of 
Madras, Andhra, Mysore, Travancore-Cochin and Coorg” shall be substituted. 

[No. LWI 24 (60) 0 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1954 

S.R.O. 361. — In the notification of the Ministry of Labour No, S.R.O, 1787, dated 
the 17th September 1953 published at pages 1502-4 in Part II, Section 3 of the 
Gazette of India , dated the 26th September 1953, in sub-rule (1) of rule 1 for 
"1952” read “1953”. 

LNo. M-41 (25) 52.] 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. S 


244 


New Delhi, the 20th January 1954 

S.R.O. 382. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section. 
33A of the said Act from Shri Hrisikesh Digor, a workman of Saltore Colliery. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Application No. 92 or 1953 
(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 

In the matter of an application U/S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Present 

Shri L. P. Dave, B.A., LL.B., Chairman. 

Parties 

Sree Hrisikesh Digor, Assistant Electrician, Saltore Colliery, Saltore P.O., 
Dist, Manbhum, Bihar— Complainant . 

Vs. 

Messrs. Burrakur Coal Co. Ltd,, Saltore Colliery, P.O. Saltore, District 
Manbhum, Bihar— Opposite Party. 

Appearances 

Shri Kanti Mehta, General Secretary, Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, 
Opposite Imperial Bank of India, Dhanbad, Bihar — For the 
Complainant. 

Shri D. N. Gupta, Chief Personnel Officer, M/s. Bird & Co. Ltd., P.O. Sijua, 
Dist. Manbhum — For the Opposite Party. 

AWARD 

This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. The complainant alleges as under: — 

He was working as an electrician at the Saltore Colliery of the opposite party 
for over eight years. One Asliu Mistry was working as Head Electrician and the 
complainant was the next man in seniority and efficiency in the department. As 
Ashu Mistry was due to retire shortly, the complainant gave an application to the 
Manager on 15th July 1952 requesting that he be promoted as Head Electrician 
on Ashu’s retirement. The Manager considered the application and granted it 
and passed an order on the application as "settled”. One A. K. Sen, who was 
working as an electrician in the Standard Colliery of the opposite party, had been 
transferred on the closure of that colliery to Mudidih-Bhadruchawk colliery which 
Is another colliery of the opposite party and he was suddenly transferred therefrom 
to the Saltore Colliery, The complainant believed that the said Sen was in good 
relation with the Electrical Engineer and his transfer to Saltore Colliery on the 
eve of Ashu’s retirement was with a view to appointing him to that post. There- 
upon the complainant renewed his application for promotion on 12th August 1952 
through the President of the Workmen's Union. The Manager was annoyed at 
this and took the complainant to task. The complainant thereupon again com- 
plained to the Union. In order to make way for Sen for the post of Head 
Electrician and also to get rid of the complainant, the opposite party issued a 
charge-sheet to the complainant on false and frivolous grounds. Without proper 
investigation and without taking express permission of the Tribunal, the opposite 
party dismissed the complainant from service from 10th December 1952. The 
complainant therefore filed the present application requesting that his dismissal 
was illegal and wrong and stating that he was entitled to be reinstated with all 
back pay and compensation and also to the promotion in the usual course. 

3. The opposite party filed written statement Exhibit 4 contending inter alia 
that the appbeation was bad in law and was not maintainable. They denied that 
the complainant was working as an Electrician and urged that he was an Electric 
Fitter and not an Electrician. They also denied that he was the next man to 
Ashu In seniority or in efficiency. They denied the allegation that the com- 
plainant gave an application on 15 + h July, 1952 or that the Manager granted it or 
that he passed an order on it that it was settled. It is then contended that A, K, 
Sen was transferred to Saltore Colliery in the ordinary course of business and the 
allegations and insinuations made by the complainant are false and mischievous. 
When the complainant gave an application on 12th August 1952, he was informed 
that there was no knowledge when Ashu would retire and that the question would 
be considered at the time of Ashu’s retirement. The management denied that they 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 245 


were annoyed with the complainant or took him to task. They denied that the 
charge-sheet issued against the complainant was false or frivolous or that it was 
issued in order that A. K. Sen may be appointed as Head Electrician and in order 
to get rid of the complainant. The management alleged that the complainant was 
charged with insubordination and intentional insult towards the engineer; he was 
found guilty of this charge and was thereupon dismissed according to the standing 
orders. It was denied that proper investigations had not been made. In the end, 
the management urged that the application should be dismissed. 

4. At the hearing, a preliminary point was taken before me against the main- 
tainability of the present application. It was urged that the management had not 
committed breach of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act because they had not 
dismissed the complainant during the pendency of a Reference before the Tribunal. 
It is an admitted fact that the complainant was dismissed by the management by 
a letter dated 10th December 1952 for an incident which is said to have occurred 
on 10th December 1952. The complainant's case is that at that timo, Reference 
No. 6 of 1952 was pending before this Tribunal and it was therefore incumbent 
on the management under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act to obtain the 
express permission in writing from the Tribunal before dismissing the complainant. 
On the other hand, the management urged that at the relevant date, no reference 
was pending, 

5. A dispute relating to paid holidays between 1078 collieries (including the 
present opposite party) and their workmen was referred for adjudication to this 
Tribunal by the Government of India, Ministry of Labour, by their Order No. LR. 
2(365), dated 5th May 1952. My predecessor Mr, Varma retired on 31st May 1952. 
The post of Chairman of this Tribunal remained vacant till my appointment. On 
my appointment, the Government passed an order on 4th February 1953 referring 
the above dispute and other disputes which were then pending before this Tribunal 
for adjudication to this Tribunal. 

6. The contention of Mr. Gupta on behalf of the opposite party is that in 
December 1952, there was no Chairman of this Tribunal and there was thus no 
pending reference before this Tribunal, He urged that the above reference should 
be said to have been pending only from 4th February 1953 when the Government 
made another order referring the pending disputes to this Tribunal. I do not 
agree with this contention. It may be noted at the outset that the order of 
reference by the Government on 6th May 1952 was not to Mr. S. P. Varma by name, 
but it was an order referring the dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbaa. Similarly the order dated, 4th February 
1953 was not an order referring the disputes for adjudication to me by name but 
it was an order referring the matter for adjudication to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal at Dlianbad. It is true that the post of the Chairman was 
vacant from 1st June 1952 to 6th February 1953; but that would not mean that 
there was no Tribunal at Dlianbad. Under Section 20(3) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, the proceedings before a Tribunal are to be deemed to have commenced on 
the date of reference of dispute and such proceedings shall be deemed to have 
concluded on the date on which the award becomes enforceable. The proceedings 
before the Tribunal therefore commenced on the date of reference namely on 5th 
May 1952 and they have concluded only when an award was passed by me and it 
became enforceable. In my opinion, the retirement of Mr. Varma made no 
difference to the pendency of the Reference. It would not mean that the pro- 
ceedings came to an end; because, as I said above, the Reference was not made to 
Mr. Varma by name but to the Tribunal and though Mr. Varma may have retired, 
the Tribunal did not cease to exist and the above dispute was pending before 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad even in December 1952, 
and the opposite party was not entitled to dismiss any workman without obtaining 
the permission of the Tribunal as required by Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. Their dismissal of the complainant therefore amounted to a breach of 
Section 33 and the complainant is therefore entitled to file this application under 
Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

7. Coming to tho merits of the case, the complainant was dismissed for an 
incident which is said to have occurred on 10th December 1952. According to 
the management, the complainant was guilty of insubordination and insulting the 
engineer in his office. It Is said that on that day the engineer (Mr. Ch indhuri) 
called the complainant and others to his office and told them that there were some 
unauthorised connections which had to be cut off. It is alleged that the com- 
plainant said that he would not do so and ^hereupon the engineer said that if he did 
not do it, he would himself have to do it. It is further alleged that on this the com- 
plainant became angry and abused and threatened the engineer. The engineer 
made a report about it (Exhibit 21) to the Manager and thereupon n charge sheet 
was served on the complainant, who denied the allegations. The management 



246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


urged that on enquiry it was found that the allegations were true and therefore 
they dismissed him. 

8. On the other hand, the complainant alleges that on 10th December 1962 he 
was called by the engineer who told him to cut off some unauthorised connections. 
He thereupon told the engineer that on a previous occasion when he went to cut 
off some unauthorised connections, he was assaulted by the workmen and he there- 
tore requested that either the engineer himself should go with him or that some- 
one else should bo sent with him. On this, the engineer told the complainant that 
he had become a great man and that is why he wanted a peon to go with him. 
The complainant told the engineer that he should not use such language and at 
this the engineer got angry and pushed him out of his office. The complainant 
admits that a charge sheet was served on him but denies that any enquiry was 
held. He also alleges that he was falsely charged with the charges of insubordi- 
nation and with abusing the engineer, because the management wanted to got rid 
of him as the management wanted to appoint one Mr. Sen as the Head Electrician. 

9. It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working in the Electrical 
Department of the Saltore Colliery from about 1946. He says that he started as 
an Assistant Electrician and that in 1947 or thereabouts, he was promoted as an 
electrician. He has further said that one Ashu Mistry was the head electrician and 
that this Ashu was due to retire in July 1952 and at that time he (i.e. the com- 
plainant) w T as the next man in seniority and efficiency in that department in the 
colliery. The management allege that the complainant was not an electrician or 
Assistant Electrician but was only an electric fitter. They have urged in para. 7 of 
their written statement that m their letter of 15th August 1952 they had pointed out 
that the designation of the complainant was not Assistant Electrician but that he 
was only an electric fitter. It is further alleged in the written statement that a 
copy of the manager’s letter was filed therewith and was marked ‘A’. Annexure 
‘A’ to the written statement, however, does not mention that the complainant’s 
designation was not Assistant Electrician nor does it mention that he was an 
electric fitter. The complainant in his evidence (Exhibit 17) has stated that he 
was appointed as an Assistant Electrician but was later on promoted as Electrician. 
He is corroborated in this respect by several letters etc. of tho management. 
Exhibit 12 is a certificate granted to the complainant by the then manager on 14th 
April 1950 mentioning therein that the complainant had been working in the 
colliery as electrician. Another manager of the colliery gave him a certificate 
Exhibit 13 on 16th July 1951 mentioning that the complainant had been working 
in the colliery for six years as an electrician in charge. In the letters Exhibits 24 
and 25 written by the manager to the complainant on 4th August 1947 and 12th 
September 1947 respectively regarding the grant of leave, he was described as 
Assistant Electrician and Electrician respectively. The letter of appointment 
Exhibit 26 mentioned that the complainant was appointed as electrician. In the 
letter, Exhibit 20, dated 24th December 1952 written to the complainant by the 
Manager after he was dismissed, the complainant has been described as Ex. 
Electrician. From all these documents, it would be apparent that the complainant 
must have been appointed and designated as Assistant Electrician or Electrician. 

10. As against this, the only evidence led on behalf of the management is the 
evidence of the engineer Mr. Choudhuri Exhibit 28, who said that the complainant 
was working as Electric Fitter. He could not explain as to why the complainant 
was described in the different letters as Assistant Electrician and Electrician. All 
that he said was that in the wage sheets the complainant was shown and described 
as an Electric Fitter, The management have filed the wage sheets Exhibits 22 
and 23 for the week ending 29th December 1945 and some weeks of 1946. They 
have not filed wage sheets for any later period. Wage sheet Exhibit 22 does not 
contain the complainant’s name. The wage sheet Exhibit 23 contains his name 
describing him as an Electric Fitter. But this only meant he was described as 
Electric Fitter in 1940, It would not mean that he was not designated as Assistant 
Electrician or an Electrician later on. I believe the complainant’s case and hold 
that he was designated as Assistant Electrician and Electrician. I may however 
mention that what his designation was would not be very material for the purpose 
of this case. 

11. It is an admitted fact that one Ashu Mistry was Head Electrician in this 
colliery. It is alleged by the complainant that this Ashu was due to retire in 1952 
and that at that time he (i.e. the complainant) was the man next to him (Ashu) in 
seniority and efficiency and he therefore requested the management that after 
Ashu’s retirement he should be promoted to Ashu’s post, The management deny 
that the complainant was the man next in seniority and efficiency to Ashu. They 
have urged that one Abdul Aziz was senior to the complainant. It appears from 
the wage sheets Exhibits 22 and 23 that Abdul Aziz joined service from 27th Decem- 
ber 1945 while the complainant joined service from 20th January 1940. This 



247 


Pvt II— Sec 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


however would not mean that Abdul Aziz would be senior to the complainant It 
onlv means that Abdul Aziz has put m more service than the complainant The 
wage sheet Exhibit 23 shows that Aziz was being paid at the rate of Rs 1-4-0 per 
da\ while the complainant was paid at the rate of Rs 1-8-0 per day Though 
Abdul Aziz had joined service about 3 to 4 weeks before the complainant, the 
comp’ainant was paid at a higher rate and this would prma facie mean that he 
wa^ senior to Abdul Aziz In this connection, I may also refer to letter Exhibit 16 
add essed to the Union by seveial employees of the Electricity Department includ- 
ing me complainant and Abdul Aziz in that letter, they uiged tnat the com- 
plan ant should be piomoted in the place of Ashu Mistry and that Abdul Aziz 
should be piomoted m the place of complainant In other words, Abdul Aziz 
aam +ted that the complainant was senior to him I am thus satisfied that in 
Jail ai' 1952 the complainant was the man seniormost in the electrical depart- 
rrv u i + ne colliery next to Ashu Mistry 

1_ Regarding efficiencv we have no r \idence 1 mav however mention that 
the management hai p not u> s ea that the complainant was inefhc’tnt oi that any 
one r oc was nunc efficient vhan the csunplaman P may theicforc be taken that 
the < omplamant was also the. rnan next m efficiency to Ashu Mistry m 1952 

i«j The complainant’s allegation that as Ashu was due to retire, he approach- 
ed tne management and lequeRed tnat he should be or mated as head electrician 
«n th- n'ace ot Ashu mistiy when he retired, and that the management agreed to 
this It s further alleged tnat subsequent to tins oie A K Sen was brought m 
to tills colhery with a view to promoting him o.s Head Electrician m the place of 
Ashu mistry It is urged that it was a case ot victimisation and that when the 
complainant protested against it tne management put up a talse charge against 
h'lm and dismissed him 

14 So far as the chaige ot victimisation (in tiansfeiring Sen to this Collieiy) 
is conceiped I am not satisfied that it has been made out It has been said that 
A K Sen was related to the eng’neei Mi Choudnun or was h's special favourite 
and that is whv he was brought htre There is no evidence to show thdt Sen was 
a special favourite of Mr Choudhuri or that he was in any way related to or 
■connected with him I may then mention that the appointment of the Head 
Electrician was not within the power of the engineer, or for the matter of that even 
the manager Of course, thev could make a recommendation in the matter It 
is however to be noted that A K Sen was already in the service of another colliery 
which was managed by the same Managing Agents as the present colliery He was 
serving in the Standard Collieiv It is an admitted fact that the Standard Colliery 
was closed and thereupon Sen was transferred from the Standard Colliery to 
Mudidih Bhadi uchawk Colliery and it was therefrom that he was transferred to 
-the present colliery This transfer was not and could not be effected by either 
-the engmeei (Mr Choudhun) or the manager of this colliery It could not there- 
fore be said that Sen was appointed in this collieiy because he was a favoiuite 
-of Mr Choudhun 

15 At this stage, I must mention that tne management have eveiy right to 
appoint or promote any one they think fit to a particulai post, especially the higher 
or selection posts, and no one could claim it as of right, merely on the ground of 
seniority, provided they act bonafide In the present case, Mr Sen was working 
m the Standard Colliery as Head Electrician He was in the service of that 
colliery from 1942, that is, fiom before the complainant joined the present colliery 
m 1946 The Standard Collierv was closed down somewhere in about 1951 There- 
upon Mr A K Sen was transterred to Mudidih Bhadruchawk colliery and it 
was from that colliery that he was ttansf erred to the Saltore Colliery Though 
the Standaid Colliery belonged to the Standard Coal Co Ltd and the Saltore 
Colliery belongs to the Burrakur Coal Co Ltd, »e have to lemember that both 
the collieries as well as Mudidih Bhadruchawk colliery are all under the manage- 
ment of Messis Bird & Co Ltd In the draft standing orders of the coal industry, 
a provision has been made that an employee could be transfened from one colliery 
to another under the same management, that is, under the same managing agents 
In this connection, I may also lefer to para 5 of the complaint filed by the com- 
plainant where he has mentioned that A K Sen was originally working as an 
electrician m the Standard Colliery of the opposite party and after the closure 
oi the colliery was transfeired to Mudidih Bhadruchawk, another colliery of 
the company (opposite party! This shows that the workmen in general and the 
-corrolamant in particular lecogmsed that the Standard Colliery, Mudidih 
Bhadruchawk colliery and the Saltoie colliery were of common ownership, though 
technically they aie not of common ownership but are of common management 
If a person who had been working in a sister colliery as electrician since 1942 
was proposed to be appointed as Head Electrician m the present colliery and 



248 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Paht II— Sec. ® 


thereby the complainant who was in service of the colliery since 1946 lost a chance 
of promotion, it could not necessarily be said to be a case of victimisation or 
favouritism especially when we remember that the Standard Colliery in which 
Mr Sen was serving had to be closed down (and the closure thereof has been 
held bv this Tribunal to be justified in the award passed in Reference No. 2 of 
1952) , ' I therefore hold that the complainant’s grievance that A. K. Sen’s transfer 
to this collierv was a case of victimisation cannot be accepted. It is true that by 
A K Sen’s transfer, the complainant may have lost a chance of promotion to 
which he may have been looking up to; but that by itself would not be sufficient 
to hold that the management’s action was improper. 


16. I may mention at this stage that strictly speaking the question whether the 
complainant was entitled to promotion or not is not directly in issue in the present 
case The question at issue is whether his dismissal was proper; but for con- 
sidering and deciding the bonafldes of the management in dismissing the com- 
plainant the above facts have to be considered and that is why I have discussed 
them As I said above, the action of the management in appointing or trans- 
ferring A. K. Sen to this colliery does not appear to me to be malaflde. It 
however appears that the workmen in general and the complainant in particular 
did not like this. It appeals that when A. K. Sen Was transferred to this colliery, 
the workmen approached the workmen’s union by their letter Exhibit 16, dated 
13th August 1952. Thereupon the President of the Union wrote a letter to the 
Manager. Before this, the complainant had already written a letter to the Manager, 
of the colliery on 12th August 1952 requesting that he should be promoted to fh# 
post of Ashu Mistry when he retired and sent this letter through the Labour 
Union. The complainant’s allegation is that on receipt of this letter, the manager 
called him and threatened him for having approached the Union. He thereupon, 
went to the Union and complained to them about the manager’s threats. There- 
upon the Union President wrote a letter Exhibit 15 to the Manager informing hifh 
about the complaint made by the complainant. The manager’s reply to this is 
Exhibit 17 wherein he stated that the allegations were false, and called upon the 
President to withdraw the allegations. It is alleged by the complainant that after 
this he was called by the manager in his office in the presence of the union officials 
and at that time also the manager threatened and assaulted him. This is referred 
to by the Union President m his letter, dated 15th August 1952/18th August 
1952 produced as Annexure ‘E’ to the complaint. It further appears that even 
after this there was further correspondence and we find that on 17th September 
1952 the Union President wrote letter Exhibit 18 stating that a new man Shri 
A. K. Sen wa’s working at the colliery as Head Electi ician and that he was designat- 
ed as Head Electrician as soon as Ashu went on leave and the Union President 
was of the opinion that the complainant should also be designated as Head 
Electrician. The manager's reply to this is Exhibit 19, dated 18th September 1952 
stating that he could not break the company’s rules and that when a person was 
transferred from one colliery to another his designation was not changed, meaning 
thereby that A. K. Sen was designated as Head Electrician because that was his 
designation in the Standard Colliery. 

17. It would thus appear that though the management were right in transferring 
A. K. Sen to this colliery and in their intention to promote him to the post of 
Head Electrician in the. place of Ashu Mistry when the latter retired, the workmen 
in general and the complainant in particular were not satisfied about it and were- 
agitating in the matter. In my opinion, it was because of this background that 
the incident of 10th December 1952 has been grossly exaggerated and has been, 
made a handle by the management for taking action against the complainant. 


18. I have already mentioned above the allegations of the two parties as to 
what happened on that day. I am not prepared to believe that the incident took 

E lace as alleged by the engineer Mr. Choudhuri. According to Mr, Choudhuri, 
e called Ashu Mistry, the complainant, and others to his office and told them that 
unauthorised connections had to be cut off and thereupon the complainant stated 
that he would not do so. It is further alleged that on this Mr. Choudhuri said that 
if the complainant did not do it, he would have to do it himself and thereupon 
the complainant became angry and abused and threatened him (Mr. Choudhuri). r 
do not think it natural that the complainant would get angry merely on the 
engineer telling him that if the complainant did not cut off the connections, the 
engineer would have himself to do so. The complainant’s allegations that he 
requested that someone should accompany him when he went to cut the con- 
nections and thereupon the engineer told him that the complainant had become 
a great man and wanted a peon to accompany him appear to me to be more 
probable, Probably when the engineer said this, the complainant must not have 
liked what the engineer had told him, especially when we remember the back- 
ground about the appointment of A. K. Sen to this colliery by which the com- 
plainant believed that his chance of promotion was being interfered with. This- 



Part II— Sec. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


249 


may have led to some exchange of words between the engineer and the com- 
plainant. But I do not believe (he allegation? that the complainant used abuses 
or showed insubordination. 

19 It has been urged on behalt oi the management that in a case ol this type, the 
Tribunal is not to sit m appeal against the decision oi' the management and all that 
it is to see is that there wab some evidence from which the management could 
come to the conclusion that the charge sheet against the complainant was proved. 
In the present case, there was a statement signed by several witnesses supporting 
the allegation of engineer Mr. Choudhuu. It is true that the Tribunal is not to sit 
m appeal against the decision of the management; but at the same time, the 
Tribunal has to be satisfied about the bonalides of the action of the management. 
1 may mention that I am not satisfied about the bonafldes of the management. 
It is true that the management allege that they had before it a written statement 
signed by. several persons supporting the allegations of the engineer and this 
statement has been produced by them at serial No. 5 with their list Exhibit 10. 
In this connection, the evidence of the engineer Exhibit 28 shows that after the 
incident took place, he wrote his statement and gave it to the manager. This 
statement has not been produced before the Tribunal. It is then said that the 
manager called the witnesses and recorded their statements. One Arun Das wrote 
out one common statement in Bengali and this statement was signed by him and 
by other witnesses. It was after this that a charge sheet was served on the com- 
plainant. Admittedly no statements were recorded after the charge sheet was 
served on the complainant or after he replied to it. Now so tar as the alleged 
statement of the different witnesses is concerned, it may be noted that it does 
not bear any date nor does it bear the signature of the officer in whose presence 
it was taken. The signatures of the different witnesses appear to be in different 
jnk showing that the signatures must have been taken at different times. In 
Other words, there is nothing to show that this statement was recorded on 10th 
December 1952 nor is there anything to show that it w T as recorded by the manager 
nor is there anything to show that all the persons who have signed the statement 
wore present on 10th December 1952 and signed them at that very time. Neither 
the manager nor any of the persons who have signed the above statements has 
been examined as a witness m the present case. There is nothing to show that 
the witnesses who signed it, properly understood what was written therein. It may 
* -P'dcd that all the persons who have signed the statement were subordinates 
of Mr, Choudhuri and unless their testimony was tested by cross-examination, 
it would not be proper to rely on a statement on which their signatures may have 
been obtained They may even have signed it at the instance of Mr. (. houdhuri 
Usually cases of this type used to be put up before the Pit Committee- but the 
present case was not so put up. All these facts taken together go to show that 
the management and the engineer exaggerated a small incident with a view to 
take advantage thereof to get rid of the complainant who was agitating against 
the management’s action in transferring A. K. Sen to this colliery. In other words 
their action was not boriafidc. ’ 


20. They did not hold a proper enquiry. According to the management’s case 
a written statement was already obtained from some persons before a charge 
sheet was served on the complainant. This means that the management had 
already been prejudiced against the complainant and wanted to dismiss him 
Otherwise the normal course would have been that when the engineer made a 
complaint in the matter, a charge sheet should have been served on the com- 
plainant and if ho denied the allegations, then the statements of all persons who 
were present should have been recorded to satisfy the management whether the 
allegations made by the engineer were correct. In the present case, however, the 
management had already obtained a written statement of some witnesses before 
serving a charge sheet on the complainant. Mr. Cboudhurj went to the length of 
sayme that when the above statements were obtained from the witnesses the 
complainant was present. He had at first denied that fact. If the complainant 
■was present at the time, he would have also been apprised about the incident 
and his statement also would have been recorded. No such thing was done It 
shows that the complainant must not have been present at the time. This also 
shows the want of bonafidcs on the part of Mr. Choudhuri, as much as he is not 
stating the whole truth. 


W j Cd ?- the order of the management dismissing the complainant was 
not bonaflde and the complainant must be reinstated in the post which he was 
holding, but he is not entitled, as I said above, to the post of Head Electrician 
anH th ;+ res ih t ’ 1 f hoId t ' lat the order of dismissal of the complainant is not proper 
a, ’d d J s theiefoie set aside. The complainant should be reinstated in the post 
hoidmg m 1952 and should be paid the wages and would be entitled 
to all the benefits as if he was in service all along- Arrears of wages etc. should 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


250 


be paid within one month from the award becoming enforceable 1 pass my award 
accordingly. 

The 9 th January, 1954. 

(Sd ) L .P. Dave, Chairman. 
Central Government's Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

LNo LR. 2(365).] 

S R.O 3R.3. — In p"rsuance of 3ei Lon 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, • 1947 
(XIV o* 1947', Lie Centra 1 Government rn-retry publishes the fo'lovvmg av\ r ard of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Madra n tl lu dispute between the .rinpiujer^ 111 relation 
to the In bar. Overseas Bank Ltd Aladijs and their workman 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL MADRAS 
Present 

Sii S Narasimbulu 
I Mt" 1, Jie 8th January . 1J54 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE Nr. 79 OF 1°53 (CENTRAL 1 

Between — 

The vv oiln-i 3 , represenmd by t’-e Indiati Overseas Bank Employees' Union 53 

Vehaia Street, Madras 1 
And 

Tne Management 01 *he Indian Overseas Bank Ltd, Madias 

This dispute coming on before me for hnal enjuny on 16th December, 1953, 
31si December, 1953, and 2nd January, 1954, in the presence of Sri G. Nagiah, 
Secretary of the Indian Oveiseas Bank Employees' Union, for the workers, and 
Sri K. S Naidu, Advocate, toi the - - - 1 perusing the reference made 

by the Government of India, the 1 ■ r the parties and the evidence 

adduced bv them and on hearing > advanced by them and having 

stood ovei 101 consideration till th • • in following 

AWARD 

A dispute having aiistn between the workmen and the management of the 
Indian Oveiseas Bank Ltd Madia- as regaids the cl’scharge of 7 of the Banx s 
workmen and the grant oi increment to tne workmen tor the year 1950 the 
Government of India referred it by means oi LR No 100 (94) elated 2. -ire October 
1953, for mi adjudication undei Section 7 and clause (c) ot Sub-section (1) of 
Section 10 ot the Industrial Disputes (Central; Act XIV of 19-tT On receipt of 
notice ot this reference from me. the Indian Overseas Bank Employees' Union 
filed its cla>ms-statement and in reply to it the management ol the Bank filed Us 
c o jnier-statement. In the light ot these pleadings and the reference ot the Indian 
Government the following issues were settled L,i de’ernunation m the t ase at the 
preliminary enquiry held lor the purpose on 15th December 1953 

2 Issues. 

(1) Whether the termination of the services of (1) Sarvashn N. A. R K. 

Arunaehalam Chettiar, (2) S Ayyaswamy (3) S Loganathan. (4> 
K Kasiviswanathan (5) T Meenaksh'sundaram (6) P Veeraswamy 
and (7) M R Meeriah lrom the Bank was justified ’ 

(2) If not, to what rebel is each ol the workers who were discharged with- 

out justification, entitled? 

(3) Whether the workers of the Bank aie not entitled to increment for tne 

year 1950 by virtue ot the interim award rnaae by Sri Sen on 2nd 
December, 1949*’ 

3 When the matter came up for enquiry on 23rd December 1953. the Union 
applied tor an adjournment till 26th December 1953. with the consent of the 
Management but on 26th Dei ember 1952, Ue \I augLU.ent m turn got it adjourned 
to 30th December 1953, with the agreement ot tne Union Finally, on 30th Decem- 
ber 1953. the Management marked 26 documents, Exs M. 1 to M 26, and examined 
2 witnesses, M Ws 1 and 2. m proof of its case against which the Un '10 1 contented 
'tseli with marking some documents. Exs. W. 1 to W. 18 without adducing any 
oral evidence. The case was, therefore, closed and arguments were heard on either 
side the same day. In the dourse of their arguments the parties preferred to 
have the question of increment covered by issue No 3 settled by themselves 
and took a day's time to file a memorandum ol settlement On 31st December 
1953 however none appeared on behalf of the Union or the workers and the case 
was therefore adjourned to 2nct January 1954 the next working day, when the 



251 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


•parties appeared only to state that their attempt at settlement on the question 
of increment had failed and to argue on the question after marking Ex. W. 19 on 
behalf of the workers and Ex. M. 27, for the Management. 

4 jr-r-t’n j\Jq ] — or ffiQ 7 v/orkors whom tiy * '''sue relates, the case of the 
first 3. Sri Arunachalam Chettiar, Sri Ayyaswami and Sri Loaanatban is practi- 
cally identical and may, therefore, be dealt with together. These 3 \ ’ere clerks 
ot the Bank whose employment was terminated for similar reasons a" about the 
same time by means of the orders Exs. W. 5, W. G and JU. G (e), after they had put 
in service ot 3 to 4 years. 

5 The orders served on Sri Arunachalam and Sri Ayyaswami are both dated 
17th Septembei 1953, and rounded m the same language They state that to meet 
the situation created by the award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Dis- 
putes), the Management regrets to have to terminate the services of the sn d cloiks 
with immediate effect but offers to pay them a mo-ith’o salary in lieu of notice 
besides their salary, as an ex-yralia payment, for the remaining days of the cur- 
ie nt moil'll The order by which Su Loganathan was discharged, Ex M 6 (e) 
dated 15th November 1950, is also m like terms After -dating that to meet the 
situation created by the .said award, it has be^n louiiu neccssaii to died economy 
by retrenchment of staff and other ways, the order directs a notice teimmatmg 
the service ot the clerk in question to be sent to Ivm with a note that he would 
be paid a month’s salary in lieu of notice apait trom hit -..Haiy lor the .x mauling 
days of the month ot November as an ex-gratm payment. 

6 The Union contends that there »\d>- really no ca^-e fox retrenchment, that 
even if there was one, the Management should have followed the prmcipie ol 

"‘last in first out’ and that the clerks in question were all dism-sscd just lo create 
a teelmg of insecurity in the minds of the employees and d srupt then trade union 
movement On the othei hand, the Management urges that it is one of the C 
class banks tor whom the (Sen) award recogm.-,ed the need lor rationalisation and 
that the clerks in question had to be discharged as it was felt necessary to le- 
trench the staff to implement the award The Management fiankly coi rides 
that the pt maple ot last come, first go’ was noi obscured in the case of these 
employees, but seeks to justify its action on the score that the award conlains 
no direction to retrench only the latest recruits and thai wtien retrenchment has 
to be effected, it is but reasonable that only those who are found unfit or ineffi- 
cient should be sent away and that all the three clerks y\e arc now concerned with 
were retrenched on the strength ol reports received against them from the agents 
of the branches where they were working in compliance wiih the cireulai letter 
issued by the Management regarding it. 

7. Now, the principles governing cases of letrenchment ere well-settled Tney 
have been clearly laid down by the Labour Appellate Tribunal ol India in the 
leading case of the Viswamitra Press reported at page 181 of 1952-I-Labour Law 
Journal, thus : 

“The first question to be considered by a tribunal is whether a case lux 
retrenchment has been established On this question, the onus wouid 
be on the management. If it fails, its case would end there If, 
however, the management is able to establish a case for retrench- 
ment, either on the ground of rationalisation, economy oi other suffi- 
cient causes, the next question to consider would be the extent of 
retrenchment. Here the matter has to be considered under two sub- 
heads, namely (1) when the action of the management in retrench- 
ing the workmen is bona fide and (2) where in determining the 
extent of retrenchment, it acts partially on extraneous considerations 
or on improper motives. 

“It is the pnma facie right of the management to determine its labour lorce 
and the management would be the best judge to determine the num- 
ber of workmen who would become surplus on the ground of rationa- 
lisation. economy or other reasons on which retrenchment can be 
sustained. Where, in effecting the retrenchment, the management acts 
in a bona fide manner, the number retrenched by it are to be ac- 
cepted It is not possible or desirable to give an exhaustive list of 
the cases that would be covered by the second class. Increase of 
work-load on the workmen retained would be an instance of extra- 
neous consideration. Similarly victimisation or unfair labour practice 
in effecting retrenchment would be an instance of improper motive. 
When the management is influenced by extraneous considerations or 
improper motives, the tribunal must scrutinise the matter wtlh 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


circumspection and must confine the number of retrenchment strict- 
ly within the limits of actual requirement. In such cases, the manage- 
ment must justify by evidence the extent of the retrenchment.’ 

These principles have been reiterated by different benches of the same Appel- 
late Tribunal in numerous subsequent decisions, the latest of them being those 
reported at 1 953-I-Labour Law Journal at page 45, 1953-I-Labour Luw Journal at 
page 85 and 1953-1-1, aboui Law .Journal at page 368. 

8. Now, in justification of the retrenchment, which according to the Manage- 
ment in the present case, became necessary and was permitted by the (Sen) award, 
Exs. M 1 to M. 6 are relied upon. Ex. M. 1 is an extract oi the minutes of the 
Banks’ Committee meeting held on 25th May 1950. It goes to show ihat u note re- 
garding the closing of the Bank's branches at. Vellore, Purusawalkam and Tlrunelveli 
junction was considered and approved by the Committee. Exs. M. 2 to M. 4 are 
all copies of the communications sent to the said 3 branch offices directing notices 
to be issued to the clerical and cash department and the subordinate members of 
the offices on 15th October i960, that their services would not be required be- 
yond that date and as a matter of grace they would be paid their salary and al- 
lowance till 30th November 1950. Then. Ex. M. 5 is a statement showing the 
losses sustained by the 3 branch offices continuously from 1946 to 1950 which ne-_ 
cessitated Ihe closure of those offices And lastly, Ex. M. 6 is a confidential circu- 
lar issued by the Management to all the agents of its branches in India. It is 
dated Ufth October 1950, just like Exs M. 2 to M. 4. After rclerring to the (Sen) 
award and the need to meet heavy expenses in respect of increased salaries, 
allowances, etc , as a result of the award, it points out that the additional costs 
could be met only by increasing the income and earning power and by retrench- 
ment and curtailment of the superflous staff, and concludes with a request to the 
agents to loyally co-operate with the Management in these matters and furnish 
each a list of the clerks and subordinate members of their staff who may be 
discharged for unsatisfactory work and another list of the rest of their staff 
with a note about those whose work has been outstanding. 

9. The above documents, particularly Exs. M. 1 to M. 4. bear out the Manage- 
ment’s contention that there was sufficient necessity for retrenchment m the 
Bank. But Exs. M. 23 to M. 25, the documents filed to indicate the extent of Ihe 
retrenchment, relate only to the establishments of the 3 branch offices that were 
closed down. They doubtless go to show that altogether 3 officers, 3 cashiers, 8 
clerks, 1 shroff, 6 messengers and 4 watchmen had to be retrenched by the closure 
of the 3 branches. But they also serve to show that all these employees ex- 
cepting 3 watchmen have been provided with employment in some other branches 
of the Bank. What is more, there is nothing to show that the discharge ol the 
3 clerks now in dispute was necessitated by Ihe closure of 3 of the Bank’s branches 
and much less, that the 3 clerks were all junior to those serving in the 3 branches 
who have been absorbed In the other branches of the Bank Apparently il is to 
overcome this difficulty that the Management seeks to justify the discharge of 
the 3 clerks in dispute on the strength of unsatisfactory reports about their work 
and conduct But the principles to be observed In such a case are different from 
those applicable to retrenchment. Rules of natural justice requires that persons 
accused of defective work or conduct should be told of It and given an oppor- 
tunity of either disproving it or of avoiding the punishment proposed for it. 

10. The only evidence adduced about the 3 clerks in question being unfit for 
continuance in employment is Exs. M 6 (a) to M. 6 (d). Ex M. 6 (a) <s a confi- 
dential letter of the agent of the Bank’s branch at Madras dated 26th October 1950, 
sent in reply to the confidential circular. Ex M 0. It shows that the agent w’as 
not satisfied with the clerks, Sri Ayyaswami and Sri Arnnnehalam. The remarks 
made by him against them are these:— “Mr. Ayyaswami joined service on 19th 
November 1947 He is not quick and up to date In his work. He us lazy and is 
not earnest about the work allotted to him. He olten commits mistakes in his 
work and shows no disposition to admit them. In spite of warnings he does not 
show any improvement,” and "Mr. N. A. R. K Arunachslam joined service cm 
9th February 1948 He is easy-going, takes no interest in his work and is very 
careless. He is not obedient and does not heed to his superiors. He is moreover 
slow and dull and will not prove useful to us.” Ex. M. 6 (b) is a memorandum 
issued to Sri Arunachalam on 24th July 1950, Informing him that his probationary 
period had been extended by 3 months on account of ihe agent’s unfavourable re- 
port. And Ex, M, 6 (r) is a similar memorandum issued to Sri Ayyaswami on 
22nd July 1950, telling him that In view of the agent’s unfavourable report on his 
neatness of execution, his probation period had been extended by 3 months 
with a warning to show improvement in his writing. And Ex. M. 6 (dj is a letter 



253 


S>akt II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 

Oi the agent of the Cannanoro branch of the Bank dated 16th October 1950, con- 
taining his adverse remarks against the clerk, Sri Loganathan, to the effect that 
he ‘had been transferred to that office very recently on 20th September 1950, that 
In the clerk’s short period at that office he found the clerk much below his ex- 
pectation, considering the service the clerk had put in the Bank, that he 
found the clerk quite inexperienced and even not much enthusiastic in picking 
up work, that he wac also a little bit slow in his execution of work, that the worthi- 
ness of his retention in service depended upon his ail round improvements and 
lhat at thai stage he did not appear to be a much promising employee.’. 

11. Apparently Ex. M. 6 (t) relate to a period anterior to the date of Exs, 
.M. 6(b) and M. 6 and could only be relied upon as showing that the 2 clerks to 
whom they refer were still on probation at the lime of their discharge, while the 
third clerk, Sri Loganathan, had been confirmed by them. The documents which 
.are of importance lor our purpose are Exs. M. 5, W. 6 and M. 6 (e) toy which the 
3 clerks were discharged from service They do not make any reference to the 
unsatisfactory work or conduct of the 3 clerks mentioned In Exs. M. 6 (a) and 
M. 0 (d) hut merely state that the clerks had to be discharged to meet the situa- 
tion created by the award. In view of this the Union would be justified in con- 
tending that when the Management decided upon discharging the 3 clerks It 
-preferred to base it on the situation created by the award (of effecting economies 
*by way of retrenchment of staff and enhancement of earning power) and not on 
the strength of the agent’s adverse reports against the clerks. In such a case 
the management could only treat the 3 clerks as having been retrenched and 
should have re-entertained them as soon as vacancies arose, in the same manner 
as it had done in the case of the clerical staff affected by the closure of the above 
said branches at Tirunelveh, Purasawalkum and Vellore. Ex. W. l discloses lhat 
besides the absorption of the clerks of the aforesaid 3 branches, the Management 
has appointed quite a large number of oLher persons as clerks in 1953 without 
taking back the 3 retrenched clerks in question It looks us if the Management 
is resorting to the confidential reports sent against these clerks merely to avoid 
.-any inference of unfair labour practice from its failure to re-entertain the 3 re- 
trenched clerks before employing their juniors 

12. Assuming for a moment that those 3 clerks were discharged for unsatis- 
factory woik or conduct on ths basis of their ugents’ reports, natural justice re- 
quires that the Management should have told the clerks about the adverse remarks 
in the reports and called upon them to show cause why disciplinary action of a 
specified kind should not be taken against them on the strength of those reports. 
Something in the nature of charge-sheets should have been served on the clerks 
concerned. And if they did not plead guilty to any of those charges, they should 
have been permitted to disprove the truth of the Agents’ adverse remarks by their 
cross-examining the agents, if so desired, and by means of evidence on their own 
behalf. They should at least have been allowed to adduce mitigating circum- 
stances to avoid any drastic punishment like a summary discharge or dismissal. 
Failure to do so utterly vitiates the action taken by the Management and makes 
it impossible to accept it, I am therefore constrained to hold that the termina- 
tion of the services of the aforesaid 3 clerks without any right of reemployment was 
-not at all justified. 

13. The next employee covered by the first issue. Sri Kasiviswanalhan, appears 
to have been appointed by the Bank on 20th December 1947, at Madras and later 
on transferred to Tutlcorin where he was discharged from the service on 30th 
July 1951 by means of the order Ex. W, 9. This order refers to 4 leave applica- 
tions of the clerk dated 27th June 1951. 4th July 1951, 9th July 1951 and 13th July 
1951. and enclosure of a certificate from the Government Medical Officer, and then 
states that the Central Office of the Bank had rejected the applications and felt 
reluctantly compelled to terminate his services immediately in view of the highly 
contagious disease he was suffering from. But the medical certificate. Ex. M 7, 
which the Management has filed in proof of the disease merely shows that the 
clerk was suffering from Hansen’s disease (skin clipping for lepra Bacillae — • 
positive) and that the medical officer who gaye the certificate recommended 3 
months leave for the treatment of the disease. It contains nothing to warrant the 
Management’s contention that the disease was acute or its statement in Ex. W. 9 
that the disease was highly contagious Nor has the Management been able to 
show me any authority for treating the disease described in Ex. M. 7 as con- 
tagious. This apart. Ex. M, 10, another certificate of the same medical officer 
who gave Ex. M. 7, serves to show that after a subsequent examination of the 
clerk concerned on 7th November 1951. and reading of the report of the Civil 
Assistant Surgeon in charge of Leprosy Department of the hospital to the effect 
That in his opinion the clerk’s case was one of no-offective neutral type, the medical 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30. 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


officer concurred with that opinion and declared the clerk lit to do his duties,, 
though hy way of caution he advised that the clerk should continue regular treat- 
ment The Union ha= gone further and filed Ex. W. 10. another certificate at tne 
same med’ral officer dated 13th February 1952, to show that the clerk m question 
had been treated in the hospital for neutral type of leprosy for the past 4 months 
w'tii sulphones and injections, that repeated smears and skin slips were found 
to be negative and that m the opinion of the medical officer the disease had been 
arrested and the individual concerned was then free from the disease and fit to 
•tom duty without detriment to his colleagues. When this certificate was produced, 
by the clerk with a request for reinstatement, he merely got tne reply Ex W 11 
dated 1-th March 1952. from the Management regretting its mabihty to oflei mm 
an appointment in the Bank as it ’X'as not its practice to take back members that 
had oik e Jett the Bank It is rather difficult n appreciate to' treatment nvted. 
out to this clerk According to the Management’s own p’oad'ng in the connter- 
utatc.ncnt, it was really an unfoitunate case Aid yet t ie Management wants 
to say thal it had no other alternative but to chscbaige the ( ierk and that too 
on the strength of nothing beyond what has been stated above. I think 1 must 
hold the discharge of even this clerk as unsustainable 

14. The filth cierk whose discharge is in dispute, Sri T. Meenakshisundai am, 
admittedly joined the Bank’s service as a cierk m 1946, and volunteered to serve 
in its branch office at Singapore for a period of 3 years from 28th July, 19a9 on 
apparently better emoluments The Management pleads that despite the said con I 
tract this clerk applied by means of Ex M 11 for 3 months’ leave in June, 1951 
on the ground of his father's illness as disclosed by the telegram. E\ M. 12 , that 
though the clerk was not entitled to any home leave before completion of the 3 
years ot service over-seas, he was granted leave as a special case on the under- 
standing that he should report himself to duty at the Bank's Singapore Branch on 
the expiry of his leave, that instead of doing so. the clerk applied while he was on 
leave m India, by way of Ex M. 14 dated 7th September 1951. for a transfer to 
any Tarmlnau branch on the ground of his own illness and on the plea that the- 
Singapore 'umate did not suit him, that the request was refused by the Manage- 
ment as it had reasons to believe that the clerk was merely malingering and the 
excuse of unsuitability oi Singapore climate was an after-thought, that the e'erk 
was served with a note. Ex M 26 dated 4th October 1S51, informing him about 
the Management's inability to comply with his request and giving him an oppor- 
tunity to resign m view of the medical certificate that he would not be fit to go 
over-seas i ailing which he would have to be treated as having left the" Bank’s 
services. The Union has nothing to say against this case except to plead that 
according to Exs W. 12 and W.13(=M.15), certificates of medical practitioners at 
Devakottai where the clerk was spending his leave, he was suffering from sprue 
and was undergoing treatment for it and that his return to Mala} a would bring 
about a relapse of the disease I an unable to see how these certificates can help 
the clerk to avoid the only affernaVve vhicn he left to the Management, namely, 
of either discharging him for his unwillingness or inability to go back and serve 
at Singapore till the 3 years contract period was over or to resign his post and quit 
the Bank’s service of his own accord. I consider that the Management’s action 
in treating him as having left its service by his failure to join duty at the end ot 
the leave period sanctioned to him was just and must bp upheld. The clerk can 
have no reason to complain ol harsh treatment against the Management m his 
case particularly m view ol his having received return passage money to which 
he would not be entitled unless he had served at least 3 years over-seas as indi- 
cated in Ex. M. 13. 

15. This brings us to the case of Sii P Veeraswamv who joined the Bank as an 
attender m about 1941 and was discharged on 10th November 1951, for failure to 
join duty on the expiry of the leave granted to him. The Management’s case in 
regard to bin is that Ins leave record. Ex W 21. was throughout bad. On 17th 
January 4950. he took 3 months leave to attend to his sick father. 8 days of which 
period being on loss of pay. Again on 25th August 1950, he got 2 months on 
medical grounds, half of which being on loss of pay. Then again on 22nd June 
1951, he obtained 15 davs leave to attend to'his sick father and then applied for 
15 days extension on loss of pay Lastly on 24th September 1951, he applied for 
6 months’ leave but was granted only a month’s leave. As he failed to join duty 
on the expiry of that leave, he had to be discharged by the order. Ex. M. 16, dated 
10th November 1951. AT that the Union has chosen to urge in favour of this at- 
tender is that according to Ex. W. 3 dated 24th April 1951, a certificate of a medi- 
cal practitioner at Madras, he was suffering from hydrocele and wanted to be opera- 
ted for it at his native place and for that purpose was recommended a long leave 
for 6 months, that the Management was unlair to him m granting only one 
month’s ’eace and discharging him f™ m service for his failure to join duty after 



Pabt II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


255 "- 


that period and refusing by Ex W. 4 to reinstate him m spite of his letter, Ex. 
M 19, stating that when he got the Bank’s intimation to join duty he was on sick- 
bed. After due consideration. I ilnd myself unable to question the Management’s 
action in this case also. If the attender was really bod-ridden at the time of his 
receiving the Bank’s letter to join duty on 24th October 1951, he could have in- 
formed the Bank about it immediately instead of waiting till 27th February 1952, 
and then asking for reinstatement, especially when the Bank had refused to grant 
him anything more than one month's leave in spite of his having asked for 6 
months’ leave on Lne strengih of a medical man’s report. 

16. Coming to the last employee, Sri M. R. Meeraiah, he joined the Bank's 
service as a peon in 1944 and was treated as having left the service on 21st 
September 1951, lor failure to report himself to duty on the expiry of the leave 
granted to him as per Ex. W. 2 The Management seeks to justify this discharge 
on the .ground that his leave record, Ex. M. 22, was very bad, that he was granted 
7 days leave from 30th August 1951, on loss of pay with a warning that, he should 
not apply lor any extension, that in spite of this he applied lor extension upto 
22nd September 1951, on the score of his wile’s illness and that tile leave had to 
bt reiused and he was asked to report himself to duty immediately which he failed 
to do and let no alternative to the Management but to terminate his services. The 
Management goes further and flies Exs. M. 18, M 19 and M. 20 to show that his 
failure to join duty on 21st September 1951, was the second of its kind and his 
request for reinstatement could not therefore be entertained and that in accept- 
ance of this petition he had finally applied on 30th January 1951, for a memoran- 
dum of service ior the period he had served the institution apparently to join some 
other institution and such a memorandum was granted to him on 17th December 
]() Til As against this, the Union has nothing more than to urge that the peon 
had to apply for an extension from Hyderabad owing to his wife’s illness there. I 
fear this excuse cannot be accepted as a sufficient reason for his failure to join 
duty in spite of the warning which he had, that the leave already granted should 
not be extended beyond 6th September 1951. The fact that he has taken a memo- 
randum of service from the Bank goes to show that he was himself satisfied with 
the justification ior his discharge and preferred to seek employment elsewhere 
on the strength of the memorandum. I am therefore inclined to uphold his dis- 
charge also. I accordingly find on the first issue that the termination of the ser- 
vices of Sns Arunaehalam Chettiar, Ayyaswamy, Loganathan and Kasiviswanathan 
was not justified and is therefore liable to be set aside while the discharge of Sri» 
Meenakshisundaram, Veeraswamy and Meeraiah was justified and should there- 
fore be allowed to stand undisturbed. 

17. Issue No. 2.— II the finding given above is correct, it follows that Sri 
Meenakshisundaram. Veeraswamy and Meeraiah are not entitled, to be rainstated 
or compensated in any way for their discharge while the other 4 employees men- 
tioned above have a right to relief against their discharge which under (he circum- 
stances of the case I must hold to be their reinstatement in service, The only 
question which requires serious consideration in the case of these 4 emp’oyees is 
whether they should have their salary and allowances from the time of their dis- 
charge upto the date of their reinstatement. The Management contends that Sri 
Ayyaswamy is employed as an Executive Officer of a temple under the Hindu 
Religious ana Charitable Endowments Board and this is not disputed by the Union. 
As regards the other 3 employees whose discharge has been set aside, there is no 
proof of tlieir being unemployed after their discharge. In view of this and the 
circumstance?, in which they have been discharged, I consider that they are not 
entitled to any remuneration from the date of their discharge till their reinstate- 
ment in service. The Union has doubtless submitted two affidavits to show that 
Sri Arunachaiam has remained unemployed upto now and that Sri Loganathan is 
also unemployed except for 3 short period of 25th January 1951. to 31st March 
1951 30th July 1951, to 31st May 1952, and 1st February 1953 to 11th April 1953. 
But they cannot be relied upon as they have been sent to me by post after the en- 
quiry and the arguments in the case were closed and that too, without any direc- 
tion from me and after the Union had stated at the enquiry that it had no further 
evidence to adduce in the case than the documents marked for it. Acceptance of 
affidavits in such circumstance would be' improper, more so as it deprives the op- 
posite party of its right to cross-examine the deponents regarding the veracity arid- 
reliability of their averments in the affidavits. My finding on the second issue 
therefore Is that Sris Arunachaiam Chettiar, Ayyaswamy, Loganathan and 
Kasiviswanathan are only entitled to be taken back into service on the same terms 
as they weie enloying at the time of their discharge, within 30 days of the publica- 
tion of this award, treating the intervening period as leave on loss of pay so as not 
to affect continuity of their service and such other rights as they possessed at the 
time of their discharge. 



■^6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1964 [Part II— Sec, 3 


18. Issue No, 3. — What remains is only the worker’s claim for increment due on 
1st April 1950, up to 1st February 1951, when the final award of the (Sen) Tribunal 
.was implemented by the Bank. The Management candidly concedes that the in- 
crement in question has not been paid but seeks to justify it on the ground that 
the Tribunal gave an interim award on 2nd December 1949, providing for tempor- 
,ary relief regarding salary and allowance from 1st June 1949, by virtue of which 
.most of the clerks of the Bank got much more than their relative annual incre- 
ments and even if those increments had been granted on 1st April 1950 they 
would have all merged in the interim relief awarded by the Tribunal. I see some 
force in this contention. But it could be applied only to those who actually got the 
.benefit of the interim Award. Admittedly this benefit was given by the Bank to 
only the employees of its branches tn Part ‘A’ States and that too, to only employ- 
ees whose salary and dearness allowance together fell short of the minimum al- 
lowed under the interim award, viz., Rs. 80 in the case oi clerks and Rs, 38 in 
the case of subordinate staff in the city of Madras, and Rs. 76 in the case of 

* clerks and Rs, 35/- in the case of subordinate staff outside the city of Madras, as 
seen fiom Ex. M. 27. In view of this, such of the clerkB and subordinate staff as 
•were getting on 1st April 1950, more than these minimum amounts and could not 
d!or that reason reap any benefit from the interim award as well as those tor whom 
that award was not applied should have the increments that would have accrued 
due to them on 1st April 1950, till 1st February 1951, when the new revised scale 
of salaries and increments granted under the final award was adopted by the 
.Bank in question. The learned advocate tor the Management pleads that though 
the Tribunal gave the Banks time till 13th February 1951, to implement its final 
.award, the Bank in question gave effect to the award on 1st February 1951, 12 days 
.earlier ihan the date fixed, and that the additional income which the employees 

• of the Bank thus derived should be allowed to be deducted from the quantum ot 

increments now granted to them for the period 1st April 1950, to 1st February 
,1951. 1 have carefully considered this contention but feel that in the absence of 

.any evidence to show that the earlier implementation of the final award by the 
JBank in question was done with the object, if not on the condition, that the extra 
.benefit thereby conferred should go in reduction of the increments which some of 
-the employees are now found entitled to claim. I would therefore find on the 
3rd Issue that all the employees of the Bank in question In both part A and part 

iB states of the Indian Union shall have the increments that would have accrued 
due to them on let April 1950, till 1st February 1051, except those in part A states 
whose salary and dearness allowance was less than the minimum amounts fixed 
'by the said interim award and who for that reason got that minimum from the 
IBank in question from 1st June 1949. 

19. In the result there will be an award according to the findings given above 
.-and it will be submitted to the Union Government with a note that it shall become 
-enforceable on the expiry of 30 days from the date of its publication in the Official 
Gazette and that the parties shall bear fheir own costs. 

Madras; 

SDated, the 8t)i January 1954. 

[S. NARASIMHULU], 
Indusrial, Tribunal Madras. 


LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED 


lFor the workers — 


w. 

I 



w. 

2 


22-9- SI 

w. 

3 


• 24-9-5 1 

w. 

4 


■ r 0-3 -52 

w. 

5 


• I 7 -TI -53 

w. 

6 


■ I 7 -XI -53 

■ w . 

7 


18-11-53 

w. 

8 



■w. 

9 


• 30-7-? 3 

'W. 

10 

• 

• 113-2-52 


Minutes of conciliation proceedings held under Section 
iz of the Industrial Disputes Acl, 1947. by the Regional 
Labour Commissioner (Central). Madras, on 31-1-53. 

Letter from the Bank to M. R. Meeraish. 

Note of Dr. U. Srinivasa Rao, M.B.B.S., about 
Sri P. Vceraswami. 

Letter of fhe Indian Overseas Bank Committee to 
Sri P. Veeraswami. 

Letter of the Bank to Mr. N. A. R. K. Arunachalum. 

Letter of the Bank to Mr. S. Ayyaswarrty. 

Letter of the Bank to S. Loganathan. 

Letter from Vceraswami to the Bank. 

Letter from the Agent of the Tuticorin Branch ol the 
Bank to K. Kasiviswanathan, 

Certificate of Dr. V. Kuruvlla. M.B.B.S.. regarding 
Kasiviswanathan, 



Part II— SfcC. 3] 


W. ii 
W. 12 

W. 13 

W. 14 

W. I<! 

W. 16 

W. 17 
w. ix 
\V. 19 


.for the Management 

M. r 

M. 2 
M. 3 

M. 4 

M. 5 

Al. 6 

M. 6(a) 

M. 6i'h) 

M. 6icJ 
M. fil'd) 

M. 7 
M. x 
M. q 
Al 10 
M. 12 
M. 13 
M 14 
M. is 
jVI ifi 
M. 17 
M IK 
M 19 
M. 20 
M. 21 
M 22 
M. 23 

M. 24 

M. 25 

M. 2 6 


for the teor/tert . — 


for the Management 

Al. W. r • 

Al W, 2 • 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30 , 1954 


257 


14-2-s; ] 
23-9-51 ■ 


7 - 9-51 


14-2-1951 


Letter from the Bank to Kasiviswarmthan. 

Certificate of Or. P. S. Vaidyanathan, Civil Assistant 
Surgeon, regarding T. Aieenakshisundarum. 
Certificate of Captain G. D. fibenezer. I.A.M.C. fRetd.), 
llevakottai. regarding T. Mcenakshisundaram 
List of persons appointed subsequent to Alay 1952 in 
the Bank. 

Balance-sheet as on 31-12-1949. 

Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 31-12-1950. 
Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 3 r- 72 -i 95 r. 
Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 37-12-1952. 

Circular of the Bank to all branch offices. 


10-TO-50 

10-10-50 

io-ro-50 


70 - 10-50 
2 f- IO-5C 

24- 7-50 
22-7-50 
16-10-50 

13-7-51 

25- 4-52 
22 - 4-52 

11-6-5 r 
79-6-5 t 
7 - 9-51 

7-9-5 r 

70 - 17-51 

27-2-52 

29- 6-49 

30 - 71-51 

7- 12-5 1 


4- ro-5 r 


Certified cxrract front the Almutes of the Committee 
Meeting held on 25-9-50. 

Copy of Central Office letter to the Gudiyuthum Branch. 

Copy of Central Office letier to the Tirunelvch Junc- 
tion branch. 

Copy o 1 Central Office letter to Madras Branch (Purasa- 
walkam). 

Statement of loss incurred by Purasawalkam, Tirunelveli 
and Vellore branch pay offices. 

Copy of circular letier of Mr. L. C. Williams to all 
Indian Branch Agents. 

Madras Branch Agent's letter to Central Office. 

Copy of Central Office letter to Madras Branch. 

Copy of Central Office letter to Madras Branch. 

Copy of Cannanore Branch Agent’s letter to Central 
Office, 

Medical Certificate (Kasiviswanathan). 

Copy of Central Office letter to Tuticonn Branch. 

K. Kasiviswanothan’h letter to qhe Bank. 

Copy of medical certificate. 

Telegram. 

Copy of Central Office lciter to Singapore. 

T. Meenaksbisundaram’s letter. 

Medical Certificate. 

Copy of Madras Branch letter to Vecraswami. 

P. Veeraswami’s letter to the Back. 

Vlceriah’s letier ro the Agent, Madras Branch. 

Alecriah’s letter to the Bank. 

Copy of memo of service. 

Leave record of Veeraswami, 

Leave record of M. R. Mceruh, 

last of persons in Tirunelveli Junction Branch showing 
choir absorption in service. 

Inst of persons m Purasawalkam Branch showing their 
absorption in service. 

List of persons in Vellore Branch showing their absorp- 
tion in service. 

Letter from the Bunk to Aleenakshisundaram. 


LIST OF Vi [TNOSSRS EXAMINED 


‘NIL’ 


C. Krishna Mcnon. 

T. Kumarrandy Pdlai. 

(S. NARASIMHULU). 

Industrial Tribunal, Madras. 

£No. LR- 100 ( 94 ).J 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


New Delln, the 23rd January 1954 

S.R.O. 364. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, m the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act irom Shri Krishnapada Sarkar and 61 other workmen of 
Angarpathra Colliery. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
ArPi. icaiion No 228 or 1953 
(arising ovt of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 

111 the matter of an application U/S 33A oi Industrial Disputes AlI 1947. 
Present ; 

Shn L. P. Dave, B.A. LL.B , — Chairman. 

Parties: 

Krishnapada Sarkar and 81 other workmen ol Angaipatlira Colliery of M/S- 
National Coal Co. Ltd., P.O. Katrasgarh, Dist. Manbhum, Bihar,— 
Complainants. 

Vs. 

M/S. National Coal Co., Ltd, Angarpathia Colliery, P.O. Katrasgaih, 
District Manbhum, Bihar, — Opposite party. 

Appearances: 

Shri Kanti Mehta, Geneial Secretary, Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, 
Opposite Imperial Bank of India, Bhanbad, — For the Complainants. 

Shri D. N. Srimani, Director, National Coal Co., Lid., and Shri Biswa Ran-,art 
Roy, Local Agent of the Company, — For the Opposite party. 

AWARD. 

This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. This complaint is filed by 82 persons, alleging as under; — 

They were woi kmen working in the Angarpathia Collieiy belonging to the 
opposite party. Reference No. 6 of 1952 to which the complainants and the 
opposite party are also parlies has been pending before this Tribunal since 5th 
Muy, 1952. tn spite of this, the opposite party altered the conditions of service of 
the complainants without obtaining the permission of this Tribunal in writing 
as required by Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, The majority of the 
workmen were not allowed to work on 13th June 1953, without any notice being 
given; all the workmen were refused work and wages without any notice from 
15th June, 1953. One K. P. Sarkar. an attendance clerk, and one Badal Das, 
office peon, had not been paid their wages for the weeks ending 6th June 1952 
and 13th June 1953, respectively; and one K. C. Ghosh, attendance clerk, had not 
been paid his wages since 1st May, 1953 The bonus of all the workmen had not 
been paid for the first quarter of 1953. The complainants therefore pray that 
they should be given full work in their originul posts with continuity of service 
and also full wages from 13th June, 1953, They further pray that the arrears 
of wages of K. P. Sarkar, Badal Das and K. C. Ghosh, should be paid to them. 
Lastly it is prayed that bonus should also be puid to all workmen. 

3, The opposite party filed its written statement denying the allegations con- 
tained in the complaint and further contended as under: — 

It is not true that the majority of the workmen were not allowed to work on 
13th June 1953, and/or that all workmen were refused work from 15th June, 1953, 
K. P, Sarkar was originally appointed to and was jyorking in the Calcutta office- 
of the opposite party and had been transferred as a relieving hand to the colliery 
in October. As there was no sufficient work at the colliery and as the Managing 
Agents wanted his services, he was transferred to Calcutta office by a letter, dated 
1st June 1953, under the same conditions of service. He disobeyed the transfer 
order and flatly refused to join Calcutta office and thereupon the opposite party 
terminated his service from 6th June 1953, and offered him one week’s pay in 
lieu of notice. He however accepted wages upto 6th June 1953 and refused to 
accept notice pay. From about the time of notice of transfer, the said K. P. 
Sarkar made alliance with other staff and in collusion with one another persuaded 
and even put pressure on other workmen to resort to a strike. With this object 
in view and with some ulterior motive, K. P. Sarkar along with other members 
of the staff began to make incorrect and inconsistent entries in the books arid 



259 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


registers. According to the premeditated plan, they attended their duties upto 
16th June 1953, and stopped all work completely from 17th June 1953 and resorted 
to an illegal strike. All the staff and workmen had received payment of their 
wages upto week ending 13th June 1953 and have also been paid the bonus for 
the quarter 1953. The allegations in this respect, m::-’ v ■ are not 

correct. The opposite party has not contravened t ■ ■■■ '. ■■ S ' ■■'. 33 of 

the Industrial Disputes Act. It is therefore urged : i- i av. are not 

entitled to any of the reliefs asked for by them. 

4. As I said above, the present complaint has been filed by 82 persons. It 
was filed on 30th July 1953 and the opposite party filed its written statement on 
14 ;h September 1953. It appears that aftei this, _7-3 of the complainants were 
given employment with effect from 1st October. 1953. Only 9 persons as men- 
tioned in the statement Exhibit 17 are still out of employment. Thus the prayer 
for reinstatement would survive only in respect of these nine persons. Regarding 
ih,j other 73 persons, the question that will have to be considered is whether they 
arc- entitled to any wages between 13th June 1553. to 30th September, 1953. 

5. The complainants’ case is that the opposite party did not allow a majority 
ol the workmen to work on 13th June. 1953 It is further their case that all 
v.-oikmen were refused work from 15th June, 1953. On the other hand, the 
opposite party contends that on 13th June all the workmen excepting the miners 
attended their duties; that on 15th June the wagon loaders and the office staff and 
the guards and sweepers attended their work but the miners and the hazree 
labourers did not do so. It is said that the miners did not work on 13th and 
loth, because they usually do not attend on Saturdays and Mondays. The 
management further state that on 16th June all the office staff and supervisory 
staff and the sweeper attended their work while no one else did so and that on 
and from 17th June 1953, no workman did any work. In other words, according 
to the workmen, it is a case ol illegal lock-out on the part of the management; 
while the mangement’s case is that it was a case of an illegal strike on the part 
of the workmen. Further, so far as the workmen are concerned, they allege that 
the illegal lock-out started on 13th June 1953 and was complete on 15th June 1953; 
while according to the management, the workmen stopped attending work from 
15th and 16tii and there was a complete strike from 17th. 

6. Before proceeding to consider the contentions of the relative parties, I 

mav mention a few facts. It appears that the management had not sufficient 
funds to work the colliery and the payment of wages was often in arrears. The 
workmen also felt that they had some other grievances against the management. 
In April 1953. the workers formed a union, as a branch of the Bihar Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh. On 28th April 1953, they sent a letter of demands to the manage- 
ment. A copy of this letter has been produced as Appendix ‘A’ annexed to the 
complaint. A copy of this letter also appears to have been sent to the Conciliation 
Officer. On 2nd June 1953 the Union wrote a letter to the Conciliation Officer to 
intervene in the matter. On 12th June 1953, the Conciliation Officer wrote a letter 
Ir *’ ■' ' " ‘ ' 1 and also to the Union stating that he would hold conciliation 

office at 9 a.m. on 17th June 1953 and asked both parties to 
attend at the time. On that day. conciliation proceedings were held. The 
manager of the colliery and one Mr. Roy who is the Agent of the colliery attended 
the conciliation proceedings on behalf of the management. After some discus- 
sion, the Conciliation Officer proposed that the parties should settle the matter and 
agree to common terms. He prepared a draft of the proposed agreement and 
gave a copy of it to the Agent and the Manager, as they said that they had no 
authority to enter into or sign an agreement and they would have to consult the 
Managing Agents. The proceedings were adjourned to 24th June to find out 
whether the Managing Agents agreed to the terms and it was also decided that the 
Managing Agent should personally attend the conciliation proceedings on that 
date. It appears that he did not do so but wrote a letter to the Conciliation 
Officer. 

7. In the meanwhile, the present trouble had started. As I said above, the 
union alleges that the management did not allow most of the workmen to work 
on 13th June 1953 and did not allow all workmen to work from 15th June 1953 
The management admit that both on 13th June 1953 and 15th June 1953, the 
miners did not attend their work. They however allege that it is the usual 
practice for the miners to absent from work on Saturdays and Mondays and that 
is why the miners did not attend on 13th and 15th. On the other hand, the 
workmen urged that the miners were not allowed to work on these two days 
and that is why they did not do any work on these days. In mv opinion, the 
.allegation of the management cannot be accepted. 



260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec, 3 


8. The miners are piece-rated workers and are paid according to the work, 
done by them, It is therefore in their interest to attend work every day. They 
also get attendance bonus and free rice for every day they attend to the work. 
Thus they would not be interested in absenting themselves from work on any day. 
It also does not appear natural or probable that they should absent themselves from, 
work on every Saturday and Monday (and also Sunday). That would mean 
that they work for only four days iki a week. It is also unnatural that all (and 
not only some) of them should do this. One can understand that on the day 
following a pay day, some workmen may remain absent from work probably 
because they may have taken too much liquor after getting their pay and may not 
be m a fit condition to attend work on the day following. But it is not possible 
to believe that all miners should remain absent from work for three days every 
week. 

9. Mr. Roy, the local Agent of the colliery, has stated that the miners do not 
attend work on Saturadys and Mondavs m all small collieries including their 
own colliery. Not a single instance of any other colliery has been produced or 
proved before me to show that the miners did not attend work on Saturdays and 
Mondays. It may then be noted that even Mr. Roy admits that ever since the 
workmen started working again in the colliery from 1st October 1953, they are 
working on every Saturday and also on every Monday. The means that his 
previous allegation that the miners did not attend work on Saturdays and Mondays 
in this colliery and in all small collieries does not appear to be correct. I may 
further mention that I have gone through the attendance registers of this colliery 
prior to 13th June 1953 and I have found that the allegations that all the miners 
did not attend work on Saturdays and Mondays is not true. I have found that 
they have attended work almost on every Saturday and Monday. Thus the norr~ 
attendance of the miners from work on 13th June and 15th June does not appear 
to have been voluntary as alleged by the management. 

10. On the other hand, it appears to be more probable that the management 
must have not allowed them to work on Saturday and Monday. As I said 
above, the management had not sufficient funds to run the colliery. The letter 
of the Agent written to the Conciliation Officer on 19th June 1953, mentions that 
the financial position of the company was not sound and that since 1951 it was 
going from bad to worse. It further mentions that the working of the colliery 
in 1952 showed a net loss of approximately Rs. 34,000, and that the manager had 
spent a total sum of Rs. 27,532 and odd for the first five months of 1953 whereas 
the colliery had raised only 2,573 tons of coal during that period and had despatched 
only 965 tons; the value of coal despatched during this period was about Rs. 10,852 
out of which a substantial sum was still outstanding. The letter goes on to state 
that the management had brought these facts to the notice of the manager and had 
instructed him to work the colliery economically and make surplus reduction and 
restrict raisings for a limited period to enable the company to clear the stock and 
get sufficient funds. It further appears that the managing agents had asked the 
local agent and the manager that the weekly payments excepting the payments 
for wagon loading and transportation should not exceed Rs, 500. This appears 
from the manager’s letter to the Managing Agent produced at Serial No. 9 with 
the list Exhibit 9, and also from the evidence of Mr. Roy, who has said that the 
Managing Agent had issued instructions to this effect in abobt March or April 
1953. This would show that the management wanted to restrict their weekly 
expenses and also to restrict their weekly raisings It must be with this aim in 
view that the manager and the local Agent must have refused work to the miners 
on 13th and 15th June; because by doing so, they would be able to reduce the 
expenses and also to restrict the output of coal. In my opinion, therefore, the 
miners were not voluntarily absent on 13th and 15th but were not allowed by the 
management to work on those days. 

11. The workmen then allege that from 15th June, no one was allowed to work: 
and in this connection, they also include the clerks as having not been allowed 
to work on 15th June. On the other hand, the management urge that on 15th. 
June, not only the clerks but also the wagon loaders and supervisory and office 
staff, guards and sweeper attended to their work and further lhal on 16th June 
the office staff and supervisory staff and sweeper also did thoir work. The 
management urge that it was only from 17th that all workmen stopped work. 

12. Now so l'ar as the 15th is concerned, it was a Monday; and according to the 
management, they loaded a wagon on that day. They have produced wagon 
challans, dated 12th June 1953 and 14th June 1953 and D note book in support of 
this. It appears from these papers that a wagon was loaded at this colliery on 
15th June, 1953. This would not necessarily mean that the loaders of this 
colliery did so. As admitted by Mr. Roy in his deposition, some miners of one- 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


26 b 


colliery go to work as wagon loaders in another colliery nearby. It is therefore- 
quite possible lhat the above wagon may have been loaded at this colliery on. 
15th June 1953 by other persons, that is persons other than the wagon loaders of' 
this colliery. The best evidence to prove that it was the wagon loaders of this 
very colliery who loaded the wagon on 15th would be the attendance register, 
which however shows no name of any worker as having attended work on 1 Bth 
June 1953. It was said that the cleiks had not noted the attendance of workmen-, 
who attended the work on that day with a view to creating evidence. This 
appears to be far-fetched. It cannot be believed that the workmen had entered- 
into a conspiracy of going on strike from 1 7th and yet wanted to show that they 
had been illegally locked out from 13th or 15th. As I shall presently show, there- 
is documentary evidence in the writing of some clerks showing that they attended 1 ' 
their work on 15th. If the clerks had already conspired to create evidence that 
no one worked at the colliery on 15th, they would not have written these docu- 
ments. I do not believe the allegation of the management that the clerks had* 
deliberately not marked the presence of any wagon loader on 15th to create evi- 
dence; because on that day, they could not have any such idea. It is against the- 
interest of the workmen not to have their presence marked on a day on whichi 
they attended the work and this also would go against the allegation that the 1 
presence^ of workmen was not marked on 15th though they attended work on thati 
day. Further the management should have produced the receipts, which they 
must have taken from the wagon loaders for doing work on the 15th and when* 
they have not done so, an adverse inference must be drawn against them for this,, 
especially when the attendance registers show that the wagon loaders did not* 
attend -work on 15th. t believe the workmen’s ease that the wagon loaders were - 
also not allowed to work on that day by the management. 


13. So far as the clerical stall is concerned, the workmen allege that they were* 
refused work from 15th; while the management alleges that they voluntarily 
absented themselves from 17th. Neither party appears to be speaking the whole- 
truth. That some of the clerks did do some work at the colliery on 15th appears 
to be a fact. Firstly we have the daily report of raising of 14th June showing 1 
that no coal was raised on that day but that a wagon was loaded on 15th. This- 
report is written by a clerk K. C. Majumdar. Then there arc attendance sheets- 
of 13th, 15th and 16th June. One sheet of 13th is written by one D. N. Bhatta- 
charya and another sheet of the 13th and attendance sheet for the 14th is written* 
by one Mr. K. C Ghosh. One more sheet of that day is written by one Mr. S. K. 
Gupta. These sheets however have no importance;" because there is no dispute- 
about the clerks having attended office on 13th. We have however one hazree 1 
Sheet of 15th June 1953, which is written by clerk K. P. Sarkar. His explanation! 
about it is that this sheet originally bore the date 5th January 1953, but that date 
has subsequently been changed to 15th June 1953. This explanation cannot be- 
bclicved. One can easily change 5 to 15 by writing the figure “ 1 " before it; but 
is not so easy to change “1” to “6", If such a change is made, the sheet would pro- 
bably show that the original figure was 1 and was subsequently changed to 6. A 
glance at this sheet shows that the figure that was originally written was “6” and' 
no change has been made therein. There is another circumstance showing that 
this sheet must be of 15th June 1953 and not of 5th January, 1953. It is that one 
B. K. Banerjee was working as an Assistant Store Keeper in the colliery in, 
January and the bonus register and the ration issue register of the colliery show 
that he was present for all the days in the week ending 10th January 1953 In; 
other words, he was present on 5th January, 1953. If the above hazree sheet was 
for that date, one would have expected the name of B. K Banerjee to have been; 
included in it. This shows that the above sheet is not of 5th January 1953 but 
it is really of 15th June. 1953. There is another circumstance which leads us to- 
the same conclusion. The trammers’ Khala has been written by this very clerk 
K. P Sarkar He has stated that the letters “P” and “A" shown in the book are 
for showing their presence and absence and are made by him on the basis of - 
a written report made by the attendance clerk, He has further said that the 
w by j he a If ndan «‘ cle rk at the end of the first shift if they related’. 
fl ™t t h and , i t . he next da y lf they related to the second or third shifts. 
bad ma ^ ked the presence of the different workmen for 13th June 1953 
Even If these people worked in the first shiit, the attendance clerk would have 
sent his report after 2 pm on 13th June 1953. According to the evidence of Mr 
^. Pl ® a f. kar c ho attended office up to 10-30 or II a.m. on 13th June 1953 and" 

G c r M ten * °v? Ce aftcr thl s on that day nor did he attend office on the next day 

^ t f c , , eg ‘ Um ,hot he was " 0 ‘ <° «»* on- 



1262 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30 , 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


14. The management have then produced some documents in the handwriting 

• of one K. C, Majumdar (a clerk), showing that he must have worked at the office 
on 15th and 16tn of June. It however appears that this clerk was either in the 
good books of the management; or for reasons best known to him, he was pre- 
pared to work for the management even though his colleagues were not allowed 
to work. The local Agent Mr. Roy has admitted that even during the period of 
the so called strike, they had got bonus sheets prepared by this K. C. Majumdar. 
Similarly it is quite possible that K, C. Majumdar may have been persuaded to 
write the above letters on the 16th, even though he may not have been allowed 
to work on that day or even though he may have been on strike. It may even be 
that whereas other clerks were not allowed to work, K. C. Majumdar may have 
boon asked lo work clandestinely. The mere fact that K. C. Majumdar wrote 
one or two letters on the 16th does not necessarily mean that all clerks did work 
on that day. There is no other document in the handwriting of any other clerk 
to show that any of them did any work on ICth. On the other hand, we have the 
admission of Mr. Roy that the presence of the office staff was marked every day 
on a haziee sheet, which was sent Horn day to day to their Head Office and that 
such a hazrec sheet was sent to the Head Office on 16th June, but it did not show 
the presence of any clerk, but it showed the presence only of the sweeper and the 
mess kamin If all the clerks were present on 16th as alleged, there is no ieason 
why the hazree sheet of tha* dav should not have shown any clerk having been 
present on that day. In this connection, it was said that hazree sheels were sent 
-by the clerks directly to the Head Office without showing it to the manager or 
the local Agent and the clerks must have therefore not written the name of any 
clerk in the hazree sheet of 16th with a view lo create evidence. As said above, 
this does not appear to be probable. If the clciks were really attending to their 
■duty on 16th, tneir presence would certainly have been marked in the hazree 
sheet. it is too much to believe that the clerks had already entered into a cons- 
piracy to create false evidence. It they had really attended the office and done 

.-some work on 16th, there would have been some other documents in their hand- 
writing showing then- presence on that day. 

15. It is an admitted fact that the clerks have not been paid their wages for 
15th and 16th June. Mr Roy says that they ottered wages for these days to the 
-clerks, but they refused to accept them This also does not appear to be natural 
'Or probable. There is nothing to substantiate the allegation of Mr. Roy that the 
clerks were oflercd wages for 15th and 16th Juno. This also shows that the 

-clerks must not have worked on 15th and 16th. 

16. We have then the fact 'hat on 15th June 195.1 the Union wrote a letter to 

the Regional Labour' Commissioner stating inter aha that the management had 
-suspended all work at the colliery without any notice and that they should be 
directed to resume work immediately. This letter is produced at appendix 'B’ 
annexed to the complaint. Mr. Das Gupta. Office Secretary of the Bihar Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh, who wrote this letter has stated that some workmen came to 
’his office on 15th and told him tills, and thereupon he wrote this letter. It appears 
"that on that very day, the Conciliation Officer wrote a letter to the Manager of 
ithe colliery stating inter alia that it was reported to him by the Bihar Colliery 

Mazdoor Sangh that the management had locked out the mine without any notice. 
The local Agent Mr. Roy, who is the only witness examined on behalf of the 
management denied that the Conciliation Officer wrote any letter to them on 
15th June 1953 informing them that the Union had complained to him that they 
had locked out their mine. He also stated that rto such letter was ever received 
by him cr by the manager. On this, the file of the Conciliation Officer was called 
for and it contained a receipt signed by the manager acknowledging the receipt 
■ of the above letter. It also bore the seal of the colliery. It would thus be clear 
that on 15th June 1953 Itself, the management were informed that the union had 
made a complaint that the management had locked out the mine without any 
notice No reply was given to this letter nor was the above allegation denied by 
the management before the Conciliation Officer at the conciliation proceedings on 
the 17th. 

17. On the whole, I am satisfied that the management refused work to all 
workmen trom the 15th, though it appears that one or two clerks may have been 
allowed to do some work on 15th' but on and from 10th. no clerk was allowed to 
work. The manual workers were not allowed to work on and from 13th, In my 
•opinion, il was a case of lock out from 13th, 15th and 16th respectively In k he 
-case of different workers and it was not a case of strike from 17th 

18. I am constrained to observe that the management in the present case have 
tsshown callous disregard for the workmen and also have shown scant respect for 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 263 


law. They never paid the wages regularly to the workmen nor did they make 
statutory payments of bonus in time and it was only when pressure was brought 
on them by the authorities that they did so. Even in doing so, they tried to 
mislead authorities. For instance, the bonus book shows that no payment for the 
last quarter of 1952 was made in time. The Labour Inspector passed an order on 3rd 
April to make the payments immediately and thereupon the management wrote 
the names of only 14 persons in the bonus register and made payments to them, 
though really 31 persons were entitled to these payments. It was only after the Ins- 
pector made an endorsement again on 13th May 1953 that they entered other names 
in the books. Wc then find that 111 the register of wages, the payments said to have 
been made to the workmen were shown as more than what the workmen were 
actually paid. Again it was at the instance of the Senior Labour Inspector that 
these entries were corrected and amounts actually paid were shown in these 
registers, 'these discrepancies were not for only one week but for all the weeks 
of March. Then we find that when the present complaint was filed and It was 
alleged by the workmen in the complaint that K. P. Sarkar, Badal Das and K. C. 
Ghosh had not been paid their wages for certain periods, the management in their 
reply stated that they had made these payments to these people. It turns out 
however that these payments were made only on 14t.h August 1953, that Is, after 
the present complaint was filed. It Is true that the payments were made before 
the written statement was filed by the management; the management should 
^therefore have stated in the written statement that they had made the payments 
after the complaint was filed. On the contrary, they stated not only that the 
workmen had already been paid but that the allegations made in the complaint 
regarding non-payment of wages and bonus were false and unfounded. An 
impression was thus sought to be created as if he payments had been made 
fcetore the complaint was filed. 


19. I may now refer to the case of K. P. Sarkar. It was alleged by the 
management in the written statement that this clerk was originally appointed and 
was working in Calcutta office cf the Managing Agent and was transferred as a 
relieving hand at the colliery in October 1952. It. was further alleged that there 
was not sufficient work at the colliery and so he was transferred to the Calcutta 
office but he refused to go to Calcutta and disobeyed the order of transfer and 
thereupon his services were dispensed with from 0 th June 1953. K. P. Sarkar 
denies that he was transferred or that he was dismissed. In his evidence, the 
local Agent. Mr. Roy had to admit that Mr. Sarkar was appointed at the Calcutta 
office on trial lo see whether his work was satisfactory and that he worked there 
only for 15 days in July 1952. He was appointed to the colliery in September 
or October 1952, as a vacancy had occurred in the colliery. Thus the allegation 
in the written statement that Mr. Sarkar was appointed to the Calcutta office and 
was transferred to the colliery office is not true. Mr. Sarkar worked in the 
Calcutta office on trial to see if his work was satisfactory. After working for 
15 days, he had to wait for a month or two till a vacancy occurred at the colliery 
and then he was appointed at the colliery. Thus the allegations in this respect 
made in the written statement are not true. 

20, It has then been said that Mr. Sarkar was transferred to the Calcutta Office 
and he refused to carry out the orders of transfer. It has been said that the 
Managing Agent wrote a letter to the manager about the transfer and the 
manager personally called Mr. Sarkar and told him about the order and Mr. Sarkar 
refused *9 go to Calcutta. The manager has not been examined. There is no 
written order passed by the manager about the alleged transfer. About the 
alleged dismissal also there Is no order of dismissal. It is said that the manager 
wrote to the Head Office and the Head Office replied that Mr. Sarkar should be 
dismissed and the manager orally communicated that order to Mr. Sarkar. No 
charge-sheet was served on him nor was his explanation asked for nor was. as 
I said above, anv written order passed about the alleged dismissal. The manager 
who Is said to have communicated the order has not been examined. The local 
Agent Mr. Roy says that the manager communicated the orders to Mr, Sarkar 
In his presence but I do not believe him. The most curious part of the whole 
affair Is that though Mr. Sarkar is said to have been dismissed with effect from 
6 th June 1953, he was actually allowed to work thereafter and it is not in dispute 
that, he did work at least up to 13th June 1953. As I held above, he has also 
probably worked on the 15th and still we are asked to believe that he had been 
dismissed from 6 th June 1953. 


21. The other curious fact i s that Mr. Sarkar has been paid his wages ud to 
6 th June 1953. As I said above, Mr. Sarkar wbs admittedly allowed to work at 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


least upto 13th; his presence was also marked in the registers of the company. 
According to the management, he had worked upto and inclusive of 16th and still 
he has not been paid beyond 6th. When the local Agent Mr. Roy was questioned 
about it, he said that the management were ready and willing to pay his wages 
upto 18th* but for reasons best known to him, he did not accept the wages beyond 
6th June ^1953. Mr, Roy also said that it was not correct to say that when 
Mr Sarkar demanded the wages tor the week ending 13th June 1953. the manage- 
ment said that they were not willing to pay, as he had refused to carry opt the 
orders of transfer. On a letter of the Regional Labour Commissioner of 1st 
December 1953 being shown lo him. he admitted that their manager must have 
told the Labour Inspector that Mr. Sarkar was not paid his wages for week ending 
13th June 1953 as he had not carried oul the orders of transfer to Calcutta. 

22. I do not believe that Mr. Sarkar was transferred to the Calcutta office 
nor do I believe that he refused to carry out the said order. I also do not believe 
that he was dismissed from 6th June 1053. I am of opinion lhat he was in service 
all along and worked at the colliery upto 15th June 1953, and is entitled to his 
wages as such. 

23. As I held above, he and other clerks were not allowed to work by the 
management from 16th. The manual labourers had not been allowed to work 
from 13th and some from the 15th. The workmen were not allowed to worl^ 
probably because stocks had accumulated at the colliery. The management 
instead of having recourse to legitimate means took law into their own hands 
and did not allow workmen to do any work. The workmen, who had not been 
receiving their wages and bonus etc. m time, had already formed a union, and 
at a meeting held on 14th, they elected Mr. Sarkar as their President. A copy «f 
this letter was sent to the management by the Union on 15th of June and must 
have reached the management on 16th. It appears that on receipt of this, the 
management thought it fit to stop the clerks also from working at the colliery. 
It was a clear case of victimisation. 

24. The management have then produced two applications said to have been 
given by different workmen on 30th August 1953 and 1st October 1953 respectively. 
The first of them bears thumb marks of three persons, who stated that they 
assured the management that they would never resort to a strike in the colliery 
and promised to join their duties from the next day. It is further stated that they 
had no claim against the company. The second letter purports to be passed by 
46 persons who stated that they had stopped work from the 17th June, as they were 
misled by other people, and that they had now realised their mistake and were 
sorry and Informed the management that they would join their duties from the 
next day. They further assured the management that they would never do so 
In future and hoped to be excused for the folly. It may be noted at the outset 
that both these letters are written by the local Agent Mr. Roy and not by any 
Independent person. The first bears the thumb marks of three persons and the 
second bears thumb marks of 46 persons and signature of one person. In other 
words, almost everyone who passed these two documents was illiterate. The 
persons who has signed the second letter, does not know Bengali, though the letter 
that was signed by him was written in Bengali Mr. Roy is evidently an interest- 
ed person. The workmen were out of employment for a long time. In the 
circumstances, if a writing was written by the Agent of the management, and 
illiterate workmen were made to put their thumb marks thereon before they 
were allowed to resume duties, such a writing would have no value, It<feannot be 
taken to be a document passed of their own free will by the workmen after under- 
standing the nature of the document. I do not attach any importance to these 
letters. 


2o. The result is that the complaint must be granted. As I said above, the 
complaint has been made by 82 workmen; but out of these people, the manage- 
ment have already allowed 73 workmen to join their duties from 1st October 1953, 
while nine persons mentioned in Exhibit 17 have not been allowed to join duties. 
These nine persons must be reinstated to their original posts, provided they offer 
themselves for the same within one month of the award becoming enforceable. 
These persons should be paid their back wages and given all the benefits of 
Dearness allowance, cash concessions, free rice, bonus etc. as if they have been 
in service all along. The arrears must be paid to them within one month of the 
award becoming enforceable. The other 73 complainants must be paid their 
wages and other benefits from the date they were not allowed to work till the 
date of their reinstatement, as If they were on duty during that period also. 



Part II— See. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 265 

These amounts must be paid to them within one month from the date of the award 
becoming enforceable. I pass my award accordingly. 

Dated 12th January, 1954. 


(Sd.) L. P. Dave, Chairman. 

Central Govt’s., Industrial Tribunal Dhanbad. 

[No. LR.2(365).] 

S.R.O. 365. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under sec* 
tion 33A of the said Act from Shri Darbari Mian, a workman of Digwadih 
Coiliery. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Application No. 341 of 1953. 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 

In the matter of application U/S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

Present 

Shri L. P. Dave, B.A.L.L.B.— Chairman. 

Parties 

Shri Darbari Mian, Pump Khalasi, Digwadih Colliery, M/S Tata Iron & 
Steel Co. Ltd., P.O. Jealgora, Distt. Manbhum, Bihar. — Complainant. 

Vs. 

M/S Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., Jamadoba, P.O. Jealgora, Distt. Manbhum, 
Bihar ,— Opposite parly 

Appearances 

Shri B. N. Sharma, General Secretary, Tata’s Collieries Labour Association, 
P.O. Jealgora, Distt. Manbhum, Bihar .— For the Complainant. 

Shri D. Narsingh, Chief Personnel Officer, M/S Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., 
P.O. Jealgora, Distt. Manbhum, Bihar .— For the Opposite party. 

AWARD 

This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. The complainant alleges that he has been discharged from service by the 
manager of the Digwadih colliery belonging to the opposite party with effect 
from 31st August 1953 on the alleged ground that he has completed sixty years 
of age. This was done during the pendency of conciliation proceedings and dur- 
ing the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 to which the opposite party and 
their workmen were parties. The opposite party thereby committed a breach 
of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. The Conciliation Officer who was 
moved in the matter examined the question in detail and suggested to the Super- 
intendent of Collieries not to terminate the complainant’s service; but still, an 
order of dismissal was passed. The complainant further alleges that the standing 
orders do not contain any provision for superannuation and also that the com- 
plainant was not sixty years of age but only 44 years of age and hence the order 
of his discharge was not proper. He has also contended that the alleged ^rule 
about superannuation was never enforced before 1953 and that he was never 
examined even by the company's medical officer for ascertaining his age. He 
therefore prayed that he should be reinstated from 30th August 1953 with back 
wages. 

3. The opposite party by its written statement Exhibit 6 contends that it had 
not violated the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It fur- 
ther contends that according to the provisions of its Retiring Gratuity Rules, 
every permanent un-covenanted employee must retire from service on attaining 
the age of sixty years. The applicant cannot make a grievance that this rule 
was not enforced for some time. On 30th July 1952 his attention was drawn to 
his age as mentioned in his service card and he was advised medical examination 
if he desired an extension of service after completion of 60 years. He neither 
challenged the age as mentioned in the letter nor got himself medically examin- 
ed. On 14th February 1953, he was again informed about his age mentioned in 
the service card and was offered three months’ time to produce evidence or un- 
dergo medical examination to disprove the age mentioned in service card. He 



266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 

\ 


did not challenge the age nor took any steps to disprove the age recorded in 
service card, according to which he < cmpleted 60 years of age on 1st January 
1953. Still the opposite party waited till 20th July 1953, when he was informed 
that he would be superannuated from 26th July 1953. At the instance of the 
Conciliation Officer, he was allowed to continue his duties; and after careful 
consideration, the opposite party informed him on 21st August 1953 that his ser- 
vice would terminate from 31st August 1953, According to the conditions of 
service applicable to the complainant, he had retired automatically on his attain- 
ing the age of 60 years. The opposite party therefore did not commit a breach 
of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It therefore urges that the com- 
plaint should he dismissed. 

4 . It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as a Pump 
Khalasi in one of the collieries belonging to the opposite party and that his 
services were terminated with effect from 31st August 1953. At that time Refer- 
ence No. 6 of 1952 was pending before this Tribunal. The opposite party and 
their workmen were parties to this reference. The complainant alleges that by 
terminating his services, the opposite party had committed a breach of Section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, as they had not obtained the specific permission in 
writing of this Tribunal. 

5. It has been held in the case of Joseph Alva and General Motors India 
Limited reported at 1953, Vol. II, L.L.J. page 841, that termination of service of - 
an employee even on the ground of superannuation would require the specific 
permission of the Tribunal under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, if 
the termination is to be effected during the pendency of a dispute before a Tri- 
bunal. Hence in the present ease ; the opposite party committed a breach of Sec- 
tion 33 by terminating the services of the complainant with effect from 30th,- 
August 1953, during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 without obtaining 
the permission of this Tribunal. 

6. The opposite party’s case is that they have not in any way altered the 
conditions of service applicable to the complainant because under the terms 
of service an employee on attaining the age of 60 years would be superannuated 
and must retire. In this connection, the opposite party relied on the Retiring 
Gratuity Rules of the company. These rules have not been produced in the 
present case; but a copy thereof has been produced before this Tribunal at 
Exhibit 60 in miscellaneous application No. 123 of 1953, which was also a case 
of termination of services on the ground of superannuation. These rules were 
framed in 1937. It however appears that they were made in the first instance for 
the main factory of the opposite partv at Jamshedpur. The Deputy Superintendent 
of Collieries of the opposite party Mr. Engineer was examined as a witness at 
Exhibit 21 in the above proceedings. The parties in the present case have 
stated that the deposition of Mr. Engineer recorded in the above case (namely 
In Application No. 123 of 1953) should be read as evidence in the present case. 
In that deposition, Mr. Engineer has stated that the scheme of Retiring Gratuity 
Rules was introduced in the collieries about 10 years ago. He could not remem- 
ber the exact vear, but it was certainly after 1937. He gave his above deposi- 
tion on 22nd September 1953 and this would mean that the Rules of Gratuity 
were made applicable to the employees employed in the collieries in about 
1043. 

7. So far as the present complainant is concerned, there is nothing on record 
to show as to when the present complainant joined service. It however appears 
that originally he started service under a contractor of the opposite party and 
was later taken up as a direct employee of the opposite party. Mr. Narsingh 
on behalf of the management told me that he (complainant) had joined service 
on 28th January 1938. Mr. Sharma on behalf of the complainant urged that this 
was the date on which the complainant was taken up under the direct employ- 
ment of the management but that he was already under the employment of a 
contractor of the opposite party and the date of his joining service should he 
taken to start from the date he joined the contractor’s service. I do not agree 
with this contention. As long as the complainant was working under the con- 
tractor, he was the contractor’s employee and it would be only when he became 
the direct employee of the opposite party that the conditions of service of 
employees of the opposite party would become applicable to him. I would 
therefore hold that tfie complainant would be governed by the conditions of 
service which were in vogue in 1938. 

8. As I said above, the evidence of Mr. Engineer shows that the retiring 
gratuity rules of the company were applied to the collieries in about 1943. The 
complainant had already joined the opposite party’s service prior to that. In 
other words, when he joined service, the Gratuity Rules were not in force. In 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 267 


.his evidence, Mr. Engineer has admitted that excepting for the rule contained in 
the gratuity rules, there was or Is no rule that a workman must retire on 
attaining the age of 60 years. He also admitted that there was no rule or agree- 
ment before this about a workman retiring at a particular age and the practice 
was that the persons continued to work till they were found physically unfit. 
In other words, when the complainant joined service in 1938, there was no con- 
dition of service that he would have to retire when he completed the age of 
<10 years. On the contrary, the practice was that he would be continued in ser- 
vice as long as he was physically fit to work. 

9. It is true that retiring gratuity rules contain a rule (Rule 5) which lays 

down that every un-covenanted employee of the company must retire from ser- 
vice on attaining the age of sixty years (unless his service is extended as men- 
tioned therein) . In my opinion, this rule cannot affect a person who had already 
joined the service of the company before the rules were framed or introduced. 
By framing a set of rules, an employer could not change or prejudice the terms 
of service of an employee, who was already in service before that date. The 
•employee in service should ordinarily be given the option to elect whether he 
should accept the new rules or not. There is nothing on record to show that 
when the gratuity scheme was introduced, the workmen were even informed 
about it, much less given an option to elect the rules or not. Mr Engineer 
stated that he was not sure whether a notice was put up on the notice board 
about the introduction of the gratuity scheme. It may also be noted that though 
the rules were framed in 1937 and were applied to the collieries in about 1943 
or thereabouts, the rule about the superannuation was not enforced till 1952. 
In that year, the management started issuing notices to the employees asking 
them whether they accepted the ages mentioned in their service card as correct. 
This would also show that till 1952 the old workmen may not be aware of the 
company having framed a rule that all the employees must retire on attaining 
the age of 60 years. It may lastly be noted that even under the above Rules, 

00 employee was or is entitled as of a right to any payment of gratuity. In 

•other words, though the company had framed rules for gratuity, the rules are 
such as could not be enforced by an employee so as to claim gratuity on 
retirement. 

10. In the present case, the complainant was sent a letter on 30th July 1952 

that according to his service card, he had completed 59 years of age on 1st Janu- 
ary 1952 and that under the Gratuity Rules, employees who completed 60 years 
of age were liable to be superannuated. He was further informed that in special 
cases, extension could be given by the company till the employee completed 
the age of 61 years, provided he was declared physically fit by the Colliery 

"Medical Officer. The complainant was therefore advised to get himself medi- 

cally examined by the Colliery Medical Officer, if he desired an extension of 
service after he completed 60 years of age. It further appears that he was given 
-a notice on 14th February 1953 that according to his service card his age on 1st 
January 1952 was 59 years and as under the Gratuity Rules the employee who 
completed 60 years of age were liable to be superannuated, he was given an 
opportunity in case he did not accept his above mentioned age, to submit within 
three months from the receipt of the notice documentary evidence in support of 
his contention. It appears that the complainant did not take anv action as 
required by this lettcr/or this notice. It was argued from this that he must 
he deemed to have accepted his age as correct. The complainant is an illiterate 
workman and merely because he did not protest against this letter or notice, it 
could not be said that he had accepted the. terms thereof. There cannot be an 
estoppel, firstly because his silence was due to ignorance and illiteracy, and 
secondly because he has no! led the management to believe a particular thing. 
Further even if the complainant had already attained the age ot 60 years, his 
service could not be terminated so long as lie was physically fit. It is not the 
■case of the opposite party that the complainant is physically unfit. In any 
case, therefore, they were not justified in terminating his services. 

11. In the result, the order of termination of the complainant’s cervices from 
31st August 1953 is not proper, and is set aside; it is directed that he should 
be reinstated in service with effect from 31st August 1953. He is also entitled 
to wages, bonus, and other advantages which he would have got if he had con- 
tinued in service. The arrears should be paid to him within one month from 
the date of the award becoming enforceable. 

The 13th January, 1954. (Sd.) L. P. Dave, Chairman, 

Central Government’s Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

[No. LR. 2(365)/!.] 



268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


S.R.O. 366. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1047 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Biyas, a workman of 6 and 7 Pits Colliery, Jamadoba. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Application No. 400 of 1953 
(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 

In the matter of application U/S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

Present: 

Shri L. P. Dave, B.A., LL.B, — Chaiman. 

Parties: 

Sri Biyas, Recruiting Chaprasi, 6 and 7 Pits Colliery, Jamadoba, Bhaga P.O 
Manbhum District, Bihar.— Complainant. 

Vs. 

The Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Jamadoba, Jealgora P.O, Manbhum, 
Bihar.— Opposite Party. 

Appearances: 

Shri B. N. Sharma, General Secretary, The Tata’s Collieries Labour Associa- 
tion, P.O. Jealgora, District Manbhum, Bihar . — For the Complainant. 

Shn D. Narsingh, Chief Personnel Officer, The Tata Iron and Steel Co, Ltd.,, 
Jamadoba, P.O. Jealgora, District Manbhum, Bihar. — For the Opposite 
party. 


AWARD 

This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. The complainant alleges that he has been discharged from service by the 
manager of Pits 6 and 7 belonging to the opposite party with effect from 30th 
August 1953 on the alleged ground that he had completed sixty years of age. This 
was done during the pendency of conciliation proceedings and during the pendency 
of Reference No. fi of 1952 to which the opposite party and their workmen were 
parties The opposite party thereby committed a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. The Conciliation Officer who was moved in the matter 
examined the question in detail and suggested to the Superintendent of Collieries 
not to terminate the complainant’s service; but still, an order of dismissal was 
passed. The complainant further alleges that the standing orders do not contain 
any provision for superannuation and also that the complainant was not sixty years 
of age but only 50 years of age and hence the order of his discharge was not 
proper. He therefore prayed that he should be reinstated from 30th August 1953 
with back wages. 


3. The opposite party by its written statement Exhibit 6 contends that it had 
not violated the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act It further 
contends that according to the provisions of the Retiring Gratuity Rules of the 
opposite party every permanent un-covenanted employee must retire from service 
on attaining the age of sixty years. As according to the service card of the com- 
plainant his age was over 60 years of age on 1st May 1953, he was given an 
opportunity to produce evidence about his age or to submit himself for medical 
examination by the colliery medical officer. The complainant could not produce 
any 1 i°u U I ne ? 1 ta ,7 c , ev i dence lus age and on examination by the medical officer 

on 18th April 1953, he was found to be of over 60 years of age The complainant 
.was informed accordingly that he would be superannuated from 17th May 1959 
He made representations and thereupon he was re-examined by the L ui 
officer on 12th May 1953 who confirmed his previous opinion The opposite party 
considered the representations made by the complainant and the opinion of the 
medical officer and informed him that he would fee superannuated from 31st May 
nm » meantime conciliation proceedings were taken up by the Concilfa^ 
tlon Officer and hence the order of superannuation of the complainant from 
May 1953 was- cancelled. According to the conditions of service applicable Ml 
complainant, he had retired automatically on his attaining the ace of * th 
He was therefore informed that his service would terminate from Mh ° A years ; 
1953. The complainant never complained that the GratuTtv Rule* mJ < M m,St 

ol conditions of his service. The P opposite party ffiere L urges tbal ft, 
plaint should be dismissed. i-reiore urges that the com- 



269 


Part II— Sfc, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


4, It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as a recruiting 
cbaprasi in one of the collieries belonging to the opposite party and that his 
services were terminated with effect from 30th August 1953. At that time, 
Reference No. 6 of 1952 was pending before this Tribunal. The opposite party 
and their workmen were parties to this reference. The complainant alleges that by 
terminating his services, the opposite party has committed a breach of Section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, as they had not obtained the specific permission 
In writing of this Tribunal. 


5. It has been held in the case of Joseph Alva and General Motors India Limited 
reported at 1953. Vol. II, L.L.J. p. 841 that termination of service of an employee 
even on the ground of superannuation would require the specific permission of 
the Tribunal under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, if the termination 
is to be effected during the pendency of a dispute before a Tribunal. Hence In 
the present case, the opposite party committed a breach of Section 33 by 
terminating the services of the complainant with effect from 30th August 1953 
during the pendency of Reference No. G of 1952 without obtaining the permision 
of this Tribunal. 


6. The opposite party’s case is that they have not in any way altered the 
conditions of service applicable to the complainant because under the terms of 
service an employee on attaining the age of 60 years would be superannuated and 
must retire. In this connection, the opposite party relied on the Retiring Gratuity 
Rules of the company. These rules have not been produced in the present case, 
.put a copy thereof has been produced before this Tribunal at Exhibit 60 in mis- 
cellaneous application No. 123 of 1953, which was also a case of termination of 
services on the ground of superannuation. These Rules were framed in 1937. It 
however appears that they were made in the first instance for the main factory 
of the opposite party at Jamshedpur. The Deputy Superintendent of Collieries of 
the opposite party Mr. Engineer was examined as a witness at Exhibit 21 In the 
above proceedings. The parties in the present case have stated that the deposi- 
tion of Mr. Engineer recorded in the above case (namely in Application No. 123 
of 1953) should be read as evidence in the present case. In that deposition 
Mr. Engineer has staled that the scheme of Retiring Gratuity Rules was introduced 
in the collieries about 10 years ago. He could not remember the exact year, but 
it was certainly after 1937. He gave his above deposition on 22nd September 
1953 and this would mean that the Rules of Gratuity were made applicable to 
the employees employed in the collieries in about 1943. 

7. So far as the present complainant is concerned, there is nothing on record 
to show as to when the present complainant joined service. It however appears 
that originally he started service under a contractor of the opposite party and 
was later taken up as a direct employee of the opposite party. Mr. Narsingh on 
behalf of the management told me that he (complainant) joined service on 28th 
March 1945. Mr. Sharma on behalf of the complainant urges that this was the 
date on which the complainant was taken up under the direct employment of the 
management but that he was already under the employment of a contractor of 
the opposite party and the date of his joining service should be taken to start 
from the date he Joined the contractor’s service. I do not agree with this conten- 
tion. As long as the complainant was working under the contractor, he was the 
contractor's employee and It would be only when he became the direct employee 
of the opposite party that the conditions of service of employees of the opposite 
party would become applicable to him. I would therefore hold that the com- 
plainant would be governed by the conditions of service which were in vogue in 
1945. 

8. As T said above, the Retiring Gratuity Rules of the opposite party were 
introduced in the collieries in about 1943. Rule 5 of these rules lays down that 
every uncovenanted employee of the company must retire from service on 
attaining the age of 60 years. Mr. Engineer has admitted in his evidence that this 
rule was never applied to any one till 1952. Hence merely because at the time 
when the complainant joined service, the Retiring Gratuity Rules were in force, 
it could not be said that the complainant knew that the "rules provided for his 
compulsory retirement on his attaining the age of 60 years. 

9. It was in 1952 that the opposite party began to issue notices to the employees 
asking them whether’ they accepted the ages mentioned in their service cards as 

A similar notice was issued to the present complainant on 2nd January 
1953. A copy threof has been produced as Annexure ‘A’ to the written statement. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec, 3 


It mentions that the complainant’s age according to his service card was 58 years 
9 months on 1st January 1952 and that as under the Gratuity Rules, employees 
who completed 60 years of age were liable to be superannuated, he was given an 
opportunity, in case he did not accept his above mentioned age, to submit 
documentary evidence m support of his contention. This would go to show that 
the complainant must not have been aware about the rule about the superannuation 
and that is why he was given the above notice. In my opinion, the complainant 
was therefore not bound by the above ruie, contained in the Retiring Gratuity 
Rules. No such rule has been incorporated in the standing orders of the company, 
which govern the conditions of service of the employees. The complainant is an 
Illiterate person. It was for the opposite party to have established that the 
complainant joined service with the full knowledge that he would have to retire 
on attaining the age of 60 years and also with the full knowledge about the pio- 
(cetdure for proving his age. 

10. It appears that as soon as the company gave the above notice to the com- 
plainant, he disputed the correctness of his age. It appears that he was sent to 
the medical officer of the opposite party who gave an opinion that the complainant 
was over 60 years of age. The complainant challenged this opinion, He also 
pointed out that he had already been examined by the colliery doctor in 1949 when 
he was made a member of the Provindent Fund and at that time he had stated 
his age and that it would show that he was fifty two years of age in 1953. A 
copy of this letter (dated 12th May 1953) has been produced by the opposite party 
as Annexure D1 to the written statement. It appears that on this he was again 
examined by the medical officer who gave a certificate on that very day that the 
complainant was over 60 years of age. In my opinion, this procedure was not, 
proper. The medical officer had already given a certificate on 18th April 1953 
that the complainant was over 60 years of age and human nature being what it 
is. It was not likely that even if he had made a mistake he would admit It. The 
management ought to have sent (he complainant to another medical officer and 
not to the same medical officer. They should also have referred lo the report of 
the medical officer who is alleged to have examined the complaint in 1949 (at flie 
time of his becoming a member of the Provident Fund) and sent that certificate 
also to the medical officer when sending the complainant for re-examination. It 
appears that the complainant was examined by the Civil Surgeon. Civil Hospital, 
Dhanbad, on 29th May 1953 who gave a certificate that he appeared to be 50 years 
old. 


11. It is true that ordinarily the Tribunal would not Interfere in the decision 
of the management when they had evidence before them to show that the age of 
a person was 60 years, unless It was shown that their action was not bonaflde 
It is also true that when there was a conflict of medical opinion, it was for the 
management to decide which evidence they should accept and if they accepted 
the evidence of their own medical officer, it could not be said that their action 
was improper. But in the present case, the management did not adopt a proper 
procedure, Thev sent the complainant for re-examination to the very same 
medical officer, who had already examined him; whereas they should really have 
sent him to another medical officer As I pointed out above, the report of the 
medical officer, who is said io have examined the complainant in 1949, should also 
have been brought to the medical officer’s notice along with other relevant facts, 
namely, the entry made in the serviee card as also the entry made in his applica- 
tion 6or Provident Fund. As proper procedure was not adopted. It Is doubtful 
whether the decision of the management that the complainant had already attain- 
ed the age of 60 years can or should be accepted. I need not however give a 
definite decision on this point; because, in by opinion, the complainant could not 
be made to retire only on the ground that he had attained the age of 60 yeafs. 

12. As admitted by Mr. Engineer, the practice before the introduction of the 
above rule was that the persons continued to work till they were found physically 
unfit. The complainant has been found to be physically Fit according to the 
certificate of the Assistant Surgeon, Civil Hospital, Dhanbad, The medical officer 
of the opposite party has not stated that the complainant was physically not fit 
nor is it the opposite party’s case that the complainant is physically not fit. 


13, In the result, the order of termination of the complainant’s service from 
30th August 1953 fs not proper, and Is set aside; it Is directed that he should be 
reinstated in service with effect from 30th August 1953. He is also entitled to 
wages, bonus, and other advantages which he would have got if he had continued 



Part II — Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


in service. The arrears should be paid to him within one month from the date of 
the award becoming enforceable. 

.Dated 13th January, 1954. 

(Sd.) L. P. Dave, Chairman, 

Central Government’s Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 

[No, LR.2(38S)/II.] 

S.R.O. 367 —In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
CXIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the dispute between the Bank of Jaipur Ltd., 
Ahmedabad, and its workmen. 

BEFORE Mr. S. H. NAIK, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY. 

Reference (IT-CG) No. 1 of 1953 

Adjudication 

Between 

The Bank of Jaipur Limited, Ahmedabad 

AND 

Its Employees. 

In the miit ter of an industrial dispute re: notice pay, leave pay, provident fund 
and compensation, 

Appearances: 

Mr A. R. Savoor, Ag. Manager, Bombay branch for the Bank. 

Mr. R. M. Shukla with Mr. C. D. Rawal for the employees. 

AWARD 

This is a reference made by the Central Government under section 10(1) (c) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The dispute relates to four demands made 
by the ex-employees of one of the branches of the Bank of Jaipur at Ahmedabad 
which have been referred to in the Schedule annexed to the order of reference. 

2. The facts leading to the dispute are briefly these. The Bank of Jaipur 
had two branches at Ahmedabad, ope known as the Maskati Market branch (or 
the Ahmedabad branch) and the other as Relief Road branch. The Bank pro- 
posed to close down both the branches as deposits at these branches were very 
poor and there was no prospects of attracting more deposits In spite of strenuous 
efforts put in by the Bank in that direction. The expenses at these branches 
were out of proportion to their earning capacity. The Bank therefore served a 
notice on each of the employees of the Ahmedabad branch on the 20th March 
1951, stating that it would close down that branch on the expiry of two months 
from the date of notice (Ex. U--1 ) . On 26th May 1951 the Bank served a second 
notice on the employees concerned staling that tnelr services would come to an 
end on the expiry of one month from the date of notice (Ex. U-2) and paid them 
in advance the wages for that period. Before the expiry of this notice the 
Bank discharged the employees on the 9th June 1951. They have therefore 
raised the present dispute. 

3. Mr. Savoor raised an initial objection to the appearance of Mr. Shukla or) 
behalf of the employees concerned In this case on the ground that the latter is a 
lawyer. Mr. Shukla stated in reply that although he has passed his LL.B., 
examination he has been working only as a trade unionist and he has neither 
obtained a sanad to practise nor practised in any law court as an advocate. These 
facts are not denied on behalf of the Bank. I do not think therefore that there 
can be any legal objection to the appearance of Mr. Shukla for the employees 
concerned. 

4. The employees' have made four demands on the Company. I shall now 
deal with these demands in their serial order. 

Demand No. 1. — “ Payment for the period of notice of termination of service,” 

5. Ahmedabad Banks Employees Union which represents the employees con- 
cerned in this dispute has put in a statement of claim in which it states that while 
throwing out of employment the eight senior employees of the Ahmedabad 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


branch the Bank retained men who were junior to them in service and has there- 
by caused Injustice to the workmen who have raised the present dispute. 

6. The award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes)— hereinafter 
called the Sen Award — was In force when the Bank served its first notice of termi- 
nation of service on its employees on the 26th March, 1951. It is in accordance 
with paragraph 322(7) of that award that the Bank gave two months’ notice to 
the employees concerned. That notice expired on the 26th May 1951. But 
instead of discharging the employees concerned on that day, the Bank continued 
them in service and gave them a fresh notice of one month on the said day. The 
second notice expired on the 26th June 1951 but before the expiry of that notice 
the Bank dispensed with the services of the employees on the 9th June 1951. As 
the Bank continued in its service the employees of the Ahmedabad branch after 
the 26th May 1951, it must be deemed that it waived the notice issued on the 26th 
March 1951. Otherwise, it should have discharged all those employees on the 
26th May 1951. It therefore became necessary for the Bank to serve a fresh 
notice on the 26th May 1951 and the Bank did serve such a notice. As the Sen 
Award had been set aside by the Supreme Court on the 9th April 1951 it was not 
incumbent upon the Bank to give two months’ notice of termination of service 
as required by the said award. The Company could rely on its own rules and 
regulations, ft was urged by Mr, Savoor that the Bank issued the notice, dated 
the 26th May 1951 in accordance with its rules and regulations, a copy of which 
is produced m these proceedings (Ex, C-2) . Even while following its own rules 
the Bank made a mistake. Rule 23 read with Rule 22 requires the Bank to give 
a calendar month's notice to its employees “getting Rs. 190 and over” and two 
calendar months’ notice to those “getting Rs. 101 — 250”. The statement produced 
by the Bank itself shows that out of the 8 employees concerned in this reference 
4 were getting more than Rs. 100 per month and the remaining were getting less 
than Rs. 100, The Bank should have therefore given one calendar month’s 
notice ending on the 30th June 1951 to these getting less than Rs. 100 per month 
and two calendar months’ notice ending on the 31st July 1951 to these getting 
Rs. 101—250 per month. The Bank paid wages upto 26th June 1951 to the 8 
employees, I therefore direct the Bank to pay wages (including allowances) 
for four days to those who were getting Rs. 100 or less per month and wages 
(including allowances) for one month and four days to those getting Rs. 101—250, 
in the month of May 1951. 

Demand No, 2 . — “ Payment for the period of accumulated leave." 

7. The Union states that, as the Bank is granting leave having regard to 
exigencies of work, the employees did not always get leave when they needed it. 
The rules of the Bank provide for privilege leave being granted which could be 
accumulated upto the limit laid down therein. The rules also provide for the 
grant of sick leave and casual leave. The Union prays that, as the services of 
the employees of the Ahmedabad branch were terminated for no fault of theirs, 
full wages for the period of accumulated leave should be ordered to be paid to 
them. 

8. The Bank’s reply to the demand Is that as the Sen Award was not in force 
at the time of the closure its own leave rules applied to the employees and 
according to its leave rule No. 9. accumulated leave, if any, lapses on notice of 
termination of service given to or by an employee and no salary or allowance is 
payable for any leave unavailed of. According to the Bank therefore whatever 
accumulated leave stood to the credit of each of the retrenched employees lapsed 
on the termination of his service. 

9. It is true that the Sen Award was not in operation at the 

time of the retrenchment in question and therefore the employees 
concerned were governed by the Bank’s own leave rules. But the 

Bank is a “commercial establishment” within the meaning of the 
definition given in section 2(4) of the Bombay Shops and Establish- 
ments Act, 1948 and therefore under the provisions of section 35 read with those 

of section 36 the retrenched employees would be entitled to wages for the leave 
at the rate given in section 36 of the said Act. These statutory provisions over- 
ride the provisions of the Bank's own leave rules. 

10. Under section 35 of the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act accumula- 
tion of leave is allowed only to the extent mentioned therein. Under the Bank’s 
leave rule No. 3 privilege leave at the rate of 2 days for every month of service 
and accumulation of such leave to the extent of 2 months are permissible and that 
is more advantageous that the provisions of section 35 of the aforesaid Act with 
regard to the quantum of such leave and accumulation thereof. Under section 



Part II— Sec. 3J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 273 : 


69 of the said Act therefore the employees are entitled to take benefit of the 
Bank’s rules. 

11. The Bank has produced a statement showing the quantum of leave to the 
credit of the employees concerned at the date of retrenchment. 1 therefore 
direct the Bank to pay to the employees concerned for the period of their accumu- 
lated privilege leave wages at the rate specified in sction 36 of the Bombay shops 
and Establishments Act. 

Demand No. 3 .—“Payment of provident .fund including the employers' 

contribution.” 

12. The Bank has contended in its written statement that the provident fund 
including employer’s contribution and interest thereon have been paid to every 
one of the employees concerned. This demand was not pressed by Mr, Shukla 
at the hearing. It is rejected as it no longer survives. 

Demand No. 4 . — “ Payment of compensation for retrenchment." 

13. The Union has claimed compensation at the rate of one month’s salary for 
each year of service for the retrenched en^ployees on the ground that the Bank 
dispensed with the services of the senior men while retaining junior persons and 
it did not absorb the retrenched personnel m the other branches or the branches 
newly opened by it, 

14. The Bank contends that the question of payment of compensation to the 
retrenched workmen does not arise in this case as sufficient notice had been given 
to the employees concerned of the intended closure of the Ahmedabad branch. 
It has stated 'further that, although it offered to absorb the retrenched employees 
in other branches, they did not accept the offer, With regard to the grievance 
made by the Union that senior employees were retrenched while retaining junior 
ones the Bank’s defence is that the whole of the staff of the Ahmedabad branch 
including both clerical and subordinate staff was retrenched, 

15. It is important to note that the discharge of the workmen employed in the 
Ahmedabad branch was occasioned by the closure of that branch. The Union 
has not attributed any mala fides to the Bank. It does not allege that the 
retrenchment was due to any victimisation of the workmen concerned. The 
Calcutta Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal has laid down the principle on 
which retrenchment relief, that is, compensation for loss of employment for no 
fault of the employees, should be granted in the Presidency Jute Mills Co., Ltd. 
vs. Presidency Jute Mills Co., Employees’ Union (I Labour Law Journal 1952 
p. 796). Therein it is stated that in assessing the amount of compensation in 
such a case various factors have to be taken into consideration, viz., the length 
of service of the employees, causes for retrenchment and the ability of the 
employer to pay, The Bombay Bench of the aforesaid Tribunal In the General 
Motors (India), Ltd., vs. Their workmen (I Labour Law Journal 1953 p. 748) 
has expressed itself as follows on the question of payment of retrenchment relief: 

“Retrenchment relief is not a question of law but a question of fact depend- 
ing upon varying circumstances existing at the date when retrench- 
ment takes place. When persons are retrenched they have nothing 
to fall back upon and are subjected to the strains and stresses of 
unemployment, and retrenchment relief is given by tribunals to 
soften the rigours of the hardship which those unfortunate employees 
have to undergo; nor must we be taken to say that certain other 
factors are altogether absent from consideration when we decide 
questions of retrenchment relief. When a person is deprived of his 
employment, he suddenly loses a career on which he had started with 
the hope and expectancy of a life long career of security, and even 
when ho secures fresh employment he will have to start a fresh career 
with all its disadvantages; and we cannot altogether ignore this 
aspect of the matter. Therefore, when considering the appropriate 
retrenchment relief applicable to any particular case, we have to take 
into account the sum total of all factors, including the wage-scales 
prevailing in the concern, the rate of provident fund, the scheme of 
gratuity or other retirement benefit which the company already has, 
as also the other indirect benefits which an employee ordinarily 
receives while in the employ of a concern, together with the financial 
capacity of the concern to pay retrenchment relief and the state of 
the labour market ”. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 [Part II— Sec. 3 


274 


The considerations which can be urged against the Bank in this case are that the 
retrenched employees were permanent workmen who had put in fairly long 
service varying from 4 to 0 years and it did not observe the principle "last come, 
first go” in the matter of retrenchment. The Union has put in an affidavit to the 
•effect that the staff of both the branches of the Bank of Jaipur at Ahmedabad had 
been appointed for the local area of Ahmedabad only and they were not informed 
either orally or in writing by the Bank authorities that they were liable to transfer 
from Ahmedabad to any area outside it. The Bank has not brought any evidence 
to controvert this statement. The Bank did, as a matter of fact, transfer the 
staff of the accounts department of the Ahmedabad branch to the Rebef Road 
branch after the closure of the former. It is clear therefore that while closing 
the Ahmedabad branch the Bank should have gone according to the length of 
service of the staff of both the branches taken together and terminated the services 
of the juniormost from the entire body of staff but they did not do so. 

16. The circumstances which may be urged in favour of the Bank on the 
•question of retrenchment relief are that it had given sufficient notice to the 
employees concerned of the intended closure of the branch. The Bank did offer 
to provide employment outside Ahmedabad for the retrenched personnel but they 
refused to accept the offer. Some of the retrenched staff have already secured 
employment elsewhere. According to this award the employees will get their 
notice pay as also their wages for the accumulated period of leave. The Bank 
falls in the “C” class of banks referred to in the Sen Award. The compensation 
provided for retrenchment of permanent bank employees under the All India 
Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes)— Shastri Award — is half a month’s pay and 
allowances for every completed year of service subject to a minimum payment of 
two months’ pay and allowances. Having regard to the facts and circumstances 
of this case I think I should award compensation at the rate of 21 days’ wages 
and allowances for every year of service. 

17. Reliance was placed by Mr. Shukla on an award of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta in a complaint under section 33A made by the 
discharged employees of the Kanpur branch of the Jaipur Bank in support of his 
contention that compensation should be awarded in this case at the rate of one 
month's salary together with allowances for each year of service. He urged that 
no difference in the quantum of compensation should be made between the dis- 
charged employees of the Ahmedabad branch and of the Kanpur branch of the 
same Bank. But the quantum of compensation must depend upon the facts of 
each case. I have stated above that having regard to the facts of this particular 
case it would meet the ends of justice if I award compensation at the rate of 21 
days' wages and allowances for each year of service. I therefore direct the Bank 
to pay compensation to the retrenched staff of the Ahmedabad branch at the rate 
of 21 days’ wages and allowances for each year of service. Compensation shall 
be calculated on the basis of the wages and allowances drawn by the employees 
lor the month of May 1951. For purposes of calculation service of six months or 
more shall be taken as one complete year of service and service of less than six 
months ignored. The amounts payable under this award shall be paid within two 
months from the date this award becomes enforceable. 

Bombay; (Sd.) S. R. AdwalpaLkar, Secretary. 

'The 9th January, 1954. (Sd.) S. H. Naik, Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. LR-100 (55) .] 


New Delhi, the 25 th January 1954 

S.R.O. 368. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 
33 A of the said Act from Shri Nand Lai Singh, a workman of Digwadih 
Colliery. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Application No. 401 of 1953 
(arising out of Reference No, 6 of 1952) 

In the matter of an application U/S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
Present: 

Shri L, P. Dave, B.A., LL.B. — Chairman. 



275 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 


Parties: 

Shree Nand Lai Singh, Census Clerk, Digwadih Colliery, P.O, Jealgora, Dist. 
Manbhum, Bihar. — Complainant. 

Vs. 

M/S, Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd,, Jamadoba, P.O, Jealgora, Dist. Manbhum. 
— Opposite party. 

Appearances: 

Shri B. N. Sharma, General Secretary, Tata’s Collieries Labour Association, 
P.O. Jealgora, Dist. Manbhum, Bihar . — For the Complainant. 

Shri D. Narsingh, Chief Personnel Officer, M/S. Tata Iron & Steel Co, Ltd., 
P.O. Jealgora, Dist. Manbhum, Bihar.— For the Opposite parly. 

AWARD 

This is a complaint under Section 33A of Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. The complainant alleges that he was appointed as an underground munsh! 
in 1945 and worked as such till November 1948 when he was transferred as a 
Census Clerk and since then he has been working as a clerk. He further alleges 
that because of his being an active member of the Tata Collieries Labour Associa- 
tion, his promotion has been deliberately stopped and that when discriminatory 
treatment was pointed out to the officers of the opposite party, they adopted an 
unreasonable and whimsical attitude. It is then alleged that in March 1953, the 
Superintendent of Collieries of the opposite parly promoted seven clerks of the 
Digwadih colliery from a weekly rate to a monthly rate and the complainant’s, 
name was not included in the list; and that this amounted to a punishment and 
as it was inflicted during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 without the 
express permission of the Tribunal, the opposite party contravened the provisions 
of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act; and hence the present complaint. 

3. The opposite party contends that the application is legally not maintainable; 
that the promotion from weekly rate to monthly rate was neither automatic nor 
was it a condition of service arid the alleged action of the opposite party did not 
therefore amount to a contravention of any of the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Act. It is also contended that the refusal to promote the complainant from weekly 
to monthly rate was not unreasonable or whimsical or by way of punishment. 
The opposite party was not aware about the complainant being a member of the 
Tata Collieries Labour Association. The opposite party considers the category of 
a munshi different from that of a clerk and the seniority in the matter of promotion 
of a clerk was considered from the date of appointment in that category. It was- 
therefore urged that the present complaint should be dismissed. 

4. It is an admitted fact that the complainant has been in the service of the 
opposite party in the Digwadih colliery belonging to it. He joined service as an 
underground munshi in 1945. He was taken up as a clerk in December 1948 and 
he has been working as such. The opposite party has two scales of pay for clerks. 
One is a monthly rate and the other is the weekly rate. It is also not in dispute 
that the monthly rate is higher than the weekly rate. It is also an admitted fact 
that the company has a particular number of posts for the monthly rate and a- 
particular number for the weekly rate. Whenever a vacancy occurs in the monthly 
rated clerks, a clerk drawing weekly rate is usually appointed (promoted) to the 
monthly rated post. In March 1953, the management promoted seven clerks from 
the weekly rate to the monthly rate and the complainant’s grievance is that he 
should have been one of the persons so promoted; but he was not promoted because 
he was taking active part in the union activities. He alleges that his non-promotion 
amounted to a punishment and also a change in conditions of service; and as this 
was done during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 and as no permission- 
was obtained by the management, there has been a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and he has therefore filed the present complaint under 
Section 33A. 

5. The management contend that the promotion to the monthly rate is a matter 
of internal management and the Tribunal should not interfere in the discretion 
of the management. They also say that by promoting a particular person to the- 
monthly rate, it could not be said that the conditions of service of other persons 
were changed or that other persons were punished, and hence there was no breach 
of Section 33, I need not go into these questions in this case; because assuming: 



;2 7< THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1964 [Part II— Src. 3 


that the management have committed a breach of Section 33, I think that the eon- 
tention of the management that the complainant was not entitled to promotion 
to the monthly rate in March 1953 must be accepted. 


6. As I said above, It is an admitted fact that in March 1953 seven clerks were 
promoted from the weekly rate to the monthly rate and the complainant alleges 
tnat he should have been one of those persons. His grievance on this score rests 
on the ground that his seniority should be considered on the basis of his appoint- 
ment in service in 1945 as an underground munshi. On the other hand, the 
management urge that when making a promotion they only take into account the 
service of the employee in the particular category. In this case, the complainant 
was working as a clerk from December 1948 and when considering his promotion 
.as a clerk to the monthly rate, his service only from December 1948 should and 
would be taken into account. It is an admitted fact that if the complainant’s 
.service only as a clerk Is taken into account, he could not have claimed promotion 
to the monthly rate in March 1953. It is however urged that his service as a 
munshi ought to be taken into consideration in considering his seniority. 


7. I do not think that the management are wrong in holding that they should 
tane into account the service only as a clerk in considering the question of pro- 
motion. A person may have worked in different capacities but that would not 
necessarily make him fit for a particular iob or for promotion in that job. The 
work as an underground munshi is of a different type from the work as a clerk. 
1 was told that at present the management have framed a rule that only a matrl- 
-culate can be appointed to the post of a clerk; that is, a non-matriculate would 
not be eligible for appointment as a clerk, though he may be eligible for appoint- 
, an underground munshi. This would mean that a clerk requires better 
■qualifications than those of an underground munshi. In considering the question 
i ?i 0m 2 ti0n ’ ■ e rnanagement would therefore be justified in considering the 
service only as a clerk. As I said above, if the complainant’s service 
.only as a clerk is taken into account, he could not claim promotion to the monthly 
xate and hence his grievance is not proper. 


ma y point out that five out of the seven clerks who were promoted to the 
monthly rate, were working as clerks from 1944 and 1945. So far as these five 
.persons are concerned, there can be no doubt that they were senior to the com- 
?i ai ,j a ?u ev 5 n 1 , the c °mplamant s service as a munshi is taken into account, He 
«ould therefore have no grievance against the promotion of these five persons, who 
Mu^sh' Cn VVorkine as c,erks before the complainant joined service even as a 


9. Regarding the other two, they were appointed as clerks in 1950 and 1952 res- 
peetiveiy. it however appears that these two persons were originally working as 
Mining Sirdars from 1939. They are A. R. Bose and S. M, Huda. Both of them 
ere drawing a salary of Rs. 33 per month as Mining Sirdars and they were 
as clerks in 1952 and 1949 respectively, as can be seen from their service 
ft that A. R. Bose was found on examination in April 1950 to be 

suffering from pneumoconosis and the chest specialist recommended him for 
surface work. Similarly S. M. Huda had failed to qualify medically fit for con- 
tinuing in the post of Mining Sirdar. These facts appear from the papers pro- 
mana K emen t, m this case. It was in these, circumstances that these 
* P erson ' s were appointed as clerks. As I said above, they were already monthly 
™ employees and they were taken up as clerks also on a monthly rate, ft 
■could not therefore be said that it was a case of favouritism or the like. Actually 
the appointments of these two persons as clerks on monthly rate were made lone 
ago and neither the complainant nor any one else made any complaint about it 
t may also mention that even if these two persons (namely A. R. Bose and Huda) 
were not entitled to confirmation in the monthly rate, the complainant could not 
have got a monthly rate, because admittedly there are seven or eight clerks senior 
to him who are still drawing a weekly rate. Till they are considered for the 
monthly rate, the complainant’s case could not be considered, 

10 It was argued on behalf of the complainant that the management was always 
considering the service of a munshi also for promoting the clerks to the monthly 
rate In this connection they refer to the case of one Bijoy Mukherjee working 
in pits 6 and 7 and that of one B. N. Pal working in the Jamadoba Colliery They 
have not been able to point out a single instance from this (Digwadih) colliery 
sald ™ 1 in , Nos - 6 and 7 Bi J°y Mukherjee was appointed as a clerk on 
19th June 1950 and was promoted to the monthly rate from 1st January 1953- and 
though there were 5 other clerks who had been appointed as clerks before him, 



Past II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1954 277 


they were not promoted to the monthly rate. In this connection^ it ap 
Buoy Mukherjee received some injuries in 1949 which incapacitated 
working underground. It was because of this that he was given compensation 
and later appointed as a clerk. An exception appears to have been made in his 
■case, on compassionate grounds, 

11. Regarding Jamadoba Colliery, it was said that B. N, Pal was appointed as 
.a clerk on 5th February 1949 while S. P. Banerjee was appointed as a clerk on 
4th January 1950 and still Banerjee was appointed to the monthly rate on 1st May 
1952 while Pal was appointed to the monthly rate on 1st July 1952. It was argued 
that this must be because Banerjee had been working as a munshi from 1947 and 
his service as such must have been taken into account. In this connection, it 
appears that Banerjee applied for promotion to the monthly rate in March 1952 
and was promoted to that from 1st May 1952. Thereafter B. N. Pal gave an 
application on 20th May 1952 for promotion to the monthly rate and he was pro- 
moted to that rate from 1st July 1952, There is nothing on record to show why 
the case of Pal was not taken into account, when Banerjee’s application was con- 
sidered. 

12. Excepting these cases, the complainant has not pointed out any cases where 
a person’s promotion was n»adc on the basis of his service both as a clerk and a 
munshi. On the other hand, the management have produced other cases from this 
very Digwadih colliery where the service of munshi was not taken into account 
when promoting the clerks to the monthly rate scales. For instance, one A. Wahid 
was appointed as a munshi on 16th March 1944 and promoted to the post of a clerk 
on 13th September 1945. One S, K. Ojha was appointed as a clerk from 20th 
April 1944. One Mohibulla Khan was appointed as a clerk on 11th December 
1944. If In making promotions service as a munshi was also to be taken into 
account, Wahid should have been promoted to the monthly rate before both Ojha 
and Mohibulla Khan. It however appears that Ojha was promoted to the monthly 
rate from 24th September 1950 while Mohibulla Khan was promoted to the monthly 
rate from 25th September 1950 and Wahid was promoted to the monthly rate from 
1st January 1951. This shows that in making promotions to the monthly rate, 
the service only as clerks is taken into account and the service as munshis is not 
■considered for that purpose. 

13. Further even if in a stray case or two, the management may have promoted 
a person to the monthly rate before another person who was entitled to it, it would 
be that person who would have a grievance. It could not be said to establish that 
the rule or the practice of the management was that service as munshi has also 
been considered in making promotions, 

14. I may repeat that I agree with the rule or practice of the management that 
in making promotions, the service only as clerks should be taken into account and 
the service as munshis could not be considered when making these promotions. 
That being so, it could not be said that the complainant was entitled to promotions 
to monthly rate in March 1953 when other persons were so promoted. I may add 
that Mr. Narsingh on behalf of the management assured me that when future 
vacancies occur, the complainant will be duly considered for promotion to the 
monthly rate, if he is senior to other clerks, on the basjf of their services as clerks. 

I may also mention that though the complaint contains an allegation "that the com- 
plainant was harassed because he was an active member of the Labour Union there 
is not an iota of evidence to support this allegation. In their written statement, 
the management had clearly stated that they were not aware if the complainant 
was a member, far less an active member, of the Labour Union. In spite of this 
tne complainant has produced no evidence. This allegation cannot therefore be 
believed. 


pears that 
him from 


‘ 1 '■ "Die result is that, in my opinion, the complainant has not been punished 
nor has his condtion of service been changed. He was not entitled to promotion 
to the monthly rate when others were so promoted. His complaint therefore fails 
.and must be dismissed. I pass my award accordingly. 


The 16th, January 1954. 


(Sd.) L. P. Dave, Chairman, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 


[No. LR.2 (365) .] 
P. S. EASWARAN, Under Secy. 



278 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY 30, 1054 [Part II— Sec. 3- 


New Delhi , the 25 th January 1954 

S.R.O. 3fi9. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 read with sub- 
section (1) of section 15 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (IV of 1936), the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer or officers appointed from time 
to time by the Governments of Travancore- Cochin and Madhya Bharat under sub- 
section (1) of section 15 of the said Act, as the authority or authorities to hear 
and decide, within any area in their respective States all claims arising out of 
deductions from the wages, or delay in payment of the wages, of persons employed 
or paid within such area, to be the authority or authorities to hear and decide 
such claims in respect of persons employed or paid within that area by a railway 
administration or, either directly or through a sub-contractor, by a person fulfilling 
a contract with a railway administration. 


[No. Fac.61(60).] 
S. NEELAKANTAM, Dy. Secy.- 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1954 



