REGISTERED No. D. 223 


TOie Gazette 




PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


XitMft 


No - 16] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Odettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 8th April 
*959 : — 


Issue No. and date Issued bv Subject 

No. 


50 S.O. 737, dated 2nd April, Ministry of Steel, 


* 959 - 


Mines and Fuel 

S.O. 738, 
T 959 - 

dated 2nd April, 

Do. 

S.O 739, 
T 959 - 

dated 3th April, 

Ministry of Infor- 
mation and Broad- 
casting. 

S.O. 786, 
* 959 - 

dated 7th April, 

Ministry of Steel, 
Mines and Fuel. 

S.O. 787, 
> 959 - 

dated 7th April, 

Do. 

[.S.O. 788, 
I 959 - 

dated 8th April, 

Flection Commis- 

sion, India. 

S.O. 789, 
* 959 - 

dated Rth April, 

Do. 


Fixation of prices at which coal / 
coke overloaded at any weigh- 
bridge may be sold by col- 
liery-owners. 

Fixation of prices at which 

coal, coke may he sold by 
eolliery-owners. 

Approval of films specified 

therein. 


Amendment to S.O. 737, dated 
2nd April, 1959. 

Amendment to S.O. 738, dated 
2nd April, 1959. 


Calling upon elected members 
of the Legislative Assembly 
of Orissa to elect a person to 
fill a vacancy. 


Appointment of dates and time 
for the above election (S.O. 

788). 


S.O. 790, dated Kth April Do. 

1959 - 


Appointment of Shri Niiakantha 
Rath, Secretary, Orissa Le- 
gislative Assembly to be the 
Returning Officer for the 
above election (S.O. 788) 


( 907 ) 



9.d8 


I HE GAZE ITE OE INDT \ : VI’RIl . 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28. 1881 [Part II 


Issue No. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


S.O. yyJj Jalcd 8lh April, 1 lection Ct'inmis- Appoiril menl of Shri Jaipal Jec, 
insq. sion, India. Asitt, Secy., Orisbit Legislative 

Assembly to assist the Re- 
taining Officci in connection 
with the ah' Ac election 
(S.O. -88). 


S.O. yoA, dilcd 8th April, 

1 C ,q. 


Do. 


I lxntion of hours dating which 
pull shall be Ukcn m connec- 
tion with alu\e election 
i S.O. 7B81. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager ol‘ Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART IT — SECTION 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by tbe Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 

S.O. 795. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
cancels its Notification No. 434/12/58(1) dated the 22nd January, 1959/Magha 
2, 1880 (Saka) published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II — Section 
P — Sub-section (ii), dated the 24th January, 1959'Magha 4, 1880. 

[No. 434G2/58(1).) 
By order 
S. C. ROY, Secy- 


New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 

S.O. 796. — Whereas the election of Shri Manak Lai, as a member of the House 
of the People from the Mandsaur constituency, has been called In question by an 
election petition duly presented under part VI of the Representation of the People 
Act 1951 (43 of 1952), by Shri Umashankcr Muljibhai Trivedi, of 11 Neemuch 
Cantonment, Madhya Pradesh; 

And whereas the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 8G of the said Act, for the trial of the 
said election petition dismissed the said election petition by an order dated the 
1 5th January, 1958, published in the Gazette of India. Extraordinai .t , dated the 
6th February, 1958. 

And whereas the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Jabalpur, on the first 
appeal No. 32 of 1958, remitted the ease to the Election Tribunal for trial in 
ar <’oi dance with law by its order dated the 8th May, 1958, published in the Gazette 
of India dated the 14th June, 1958. 

And whereas the Election Tribunal after further trial of the petition has 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 103 of the said Act, sent a ropy of its 
order In the said petition to the Commission. 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 1 06 of the said Act, 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal. 



909 


$FC. 3 (ii)] THE G\/E1 PE OP INDIA: APRIL lri, I959/GIIAIT RA "S, 1 H 8 I 

IN THE COURT OF SHRI C E. KEKRE, MEMBER, ELECTION TRIBUNAL, 

UJJA1N (M.Pj 

Election Petition No. 62 of 1957. 

Umashanker Muipbhai Trivcdi of 11 Necmuch Cantonment, Madhya 
Pradesh. — loner. 


Versus 


1. Shri Manaklal of Rampura. 

2. Shn Koksingh, Mantn Ram-Rajya Panshad, Mandsaur. 

3. Shn Shyam Singh, Dalauda Sugar Mill, Dalauda. 

4. Shn Shivdurshanlal of Mandsaur. — Respondents. 

i ORDER 

(Passed on this the 3rd day of March, 19590 

1. The defeated candidate, Shri Umashankur Trivcdi, petitioner has filed this 
Election Petition under section 80 ol the Representation ol People Act for setting 
aside the election ol respondent No. 1, Shn Manaklal, to the Lok-Sabha from the 
Mandsaur Parliamentary Constituency in th: Madhya Pradesh, lie has also 
pruned that he be declaied duly elected. 

2. The Petitioner, who is a Barrister-at-law, is an office beaier, being 
Treasurer, of Jan-Sangh Party. He was a sitting member of the Lok-Sabha at the 
time of previous gcneiul election held in 1957. Respondent No. 1 belongs to 
the Congress Party. Respondent No. 2 Who wa a also u candidate at the election 
had retired from the contest. Theie were, thus, four candidates left in the field — 
the petitioner, and the respondents 1, 3 and 4. The polling took place in some 
parts of the constituency on 25th February, 1957 and m the rest of the constitu- 
ency on 1st March, 1957. Respondent No. 1 secured 77789 votes, while petitioner 
secured 56928 votes. The former was declared elected. 

3. Parts of this constituency adjoin the Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan where 
Meera, Sati Padmm and Rana Pratap are held m esteem bordering on reverence. 

4. Before tho dates of poll two pamphlets, Exhibits P. 1 and P. 2, with almost 
identical contents were planted. Exhibit P. 1 at Bharat Printing Press, Mandsaur, 
and the other, Exhibit P. 2, at Necmuch Printing Press, Neemuch. These pamph- 
lets appear to have been widely distributed in this constituency. They purport 
to be issued over the. signatures of a large number of persons most of whom are 
described as Sarpanch or Pancha of Gram-Panchayats. 

5. These pamphlets add'essed to the electors of this constituency, called upon 
them to vote for respondent No. 1 Congress Party candidate. The heading of the 
pamphlets in bold letters is as follows: — - 

"ifeTK RRT ITT $ RT^TdTsff 
nfr Tuufi, iToimr 5piPi tffer tt fferte «nq- ? T?r | 
tfesT fad ft T ETTT TT 'TFTT fen 

sfrrfr mi nm tt fen" 

6. Tho pamphlets contain other matters which I need not set out. Though 
that matter was stated to be false and relating to the. personal character of tho 
petitioner, no issue has been framed on those allegation for reasons given in my 
order dated 22nd December, 1958, 

7. It may here be mentioned that at the stage of evidence tho petitioner put a 
question to the very fiist witness to prove fal.vly of certain allegations m those 
pamphlets. This question was disallowed as falsity of the allegations was not 
subject matter of any issue. Tho petitioner ’.hen applied for framing an issue on 
the basis of allegations in tho petition that the pamphlets contained false state- 
ments relating 1o his personal character. That application was rejected, as also 
a subsequent application for leave to amend the petition by stating therein that 
the matters referred to were not only false, but the respondent No. 1 knew and 
believed the allegations in the pamphlets against the petitioner to be false, or did 
not believe them to be true. 



9 io 


THE C4/ETTF OF INDIA APRIf 18 1919/C1IATTRA 28 1881 [Part II 


8 I shall set out only such allegations of the petitioner in respect of whioh 
issues have been framed' He alleged that the pamphlets, Exhibits P 1 and P 2 
were published and distributed by respondent No 1 at certain places mentioned, 
and that he had read them out at the places named and on the dates specified in 
the petition According to the petitioner, the respondent No 1 had thereby com 
mitted the corrupt practice of exercise of undue influence, m as much as it 

amounted to interference with the free exercise of electoral right by the voters, 

because the voters were induced to believe by contents of the pamphlets, that this 
petitioner would be rendered an object of spiritual displeasure, having been cursed 
by Sati Padmni and Meera 

8 The other grounds on which the election of respondent No 1 was sought 
to be set aside and regarding which issues have been framed are — 

(1) Canvassing at polling stations, calling upon voters to vote for respond- 

ent No 1 

(2) Leaving the column meant for entering the symbol of the candidate 

blank against the name of the petitioner in the list of contesting 

candidates at certain polling stations 

(3) Presiding Officer at polling station No 32 not allowing polling < 

of petitioner to enter the polling station 

(4) Unauthorised person being allowed to enter the polling station No 17 

10 There were other allegations in the petition, such as propaganda that the 
Jan Sangh Party was responsible for the murder of Mahatma Gandhi, preventing 
workers of petitioner from carrying on canvassing at certain polling stations, 
government servants working for respondent in the election, appeal to the voters 
to vote for government, appeal to Muslims to vote for Cong) ess Party which were 
not made subject matter of issue either for want of paiticulars, or because the 
allegations made did not constitute grounds foi setting aside the election 

11 The petitioner was heard exparte against respondents 2, 3 and 4 Respond- 
ent No 1 denied that he either published or distributed the hand-bills, Exhibits 
P 1 and P 2, or read them out at the places mentioned in the petition It was 
denied that the matter contained m the hand-bills interferred with the free 
exercise of the electoral right or amounted to undue influence by inducing voters 
to believe that the petitioner would be rendered an object of divine displeasure, 
or was cursed by Meera, and Sati Padmni The allegations forming the other 

t rounds for setting aside the election as set out m para No 9 above ivere also 
emed 

12 It was alleged that the petition had not been presented by person duly 
authorised, and that as the necessaiy deposit had not been made in accordance 
with section 117 Representation of People Act the petition was liable to be 
dismissed 

13 The last mentioned objection was tried as a preliminary issue, and my 
predecessor, who had been appointed as Member Election Tribunal for the trial 
of the petition, passed order dated 15th January, 1958, uonoldmg that objection, 
and dismissed the petition for non-compliance with requirements of section 117 
of the Act On appeal the Madhya Pradesh High Court set aside that order, and 
remitted the petition for trial in accordance with law When the petition came 
up before me I discarded the issues that had already been framed, and framed 
fresh issues 

14 The parties went to trial on the following issues, and my finding on them 
are given against each — 


1 Whether the petition has been presented by person duly author- 

ised in writing by the petitioner? Yes. 

2 Whether Respondent No 1 published and distributed handbill 

marked ‘A’ between the dates of nomination and 1st March, 

1£57’ Yes 

3 Whether this handbill attempted to induce the voters to believe 

that the petitioner will be rendered an cbject of spiritual 
censure’ No 

4 (a)Whether Nandkishore distributed news-sheet DHWAJ calling 

upon voters to vote for Respondent No 1 at polling stations 

Nos 2 and 3 in Sitamau Constituency? No 

(b) Has the result of the election been materially affected thereby’ No 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 9IT 


5 (a) Whether column meant for symbols was blank against the 

name of Ihe petitioner in the list of contesting candidates 
exhibited at polling stations— Bawal, Morwan, Ratangarh, 
Bhonpura Lasur, Janakpur, Tarapur and Bhadwa? 

(b) Has it materially affected result of the election? 

6 (a) Whether the presiding officer at Polling station No. 32 Jaora 

town did not allow the polling agent of petitioner to enter 
the polling station? 

(b) Has it materially affected the result of election? 

7. (a) Whether on 1st March, 1957 an unauthorised person, Tehsil- 

dar of Malhargarh, entered the place fixed for poll at polling 
station No. 17? 

(b) Has it materially affected the result of election? 

8. (a) Whether Fakhruddin and Ramswaroop on 25th February, 

1957 canvassed within 100 yards of every polling station in 
Neemuch? 

(b) Whether this has materially affected the result of the 
election? , I 1 

9. Is the election of Respondent No. 1 void? 

10. Is the petitioner entitled to be declared elected? 

Reasons foh finding 

15. Issue No. 1. — The petition bears the endorsement of Under Secretary to 
the Election Commission to the effect that It was presented by Shri K. Y. Borkar, 
who had been duly authorised by the petitioner to present it. This making of 
endorsement was an official act, and there would be presumption that what was 
stated in the endorsement that Shri K. Y. Borkar had the required authority was 
correct, and that the Election Commission had satisfied ilself about the existence 
of such authority. I, therefore, find this issue in the, affirmative. 

16. Issue Nos. 4(a) (b), 5(a) (b), 6(a) (b), 7(a) (b), and 8(a)(b).— The burden 

of proving the allegations covered by issues 4(a), 5(a), 6(a), 7(a) and 8(a) 
lay on the petitioner, He has not adduced any evidence on the Points covered 
by these issues, I find them in the negative. It follows that issues 4(b), 5(b), 
6(b), 7(b) and 8(b) have to be answered in the negative. I answer them 
accordingly. 1 

17. Before considering issues 2 and 3 it is well to point out that it is now 
a well settled proposition that an inquiry into allegation about commission of 
corrupt practice is quasi-criminal in nature, and that the standard of proof 
required is the same as is required of prosecution to establish the guilt of an 
accused, It is unnecessary to set out numerous decisions on this point since 
this proposition is now well established. Though the burden of proof is on the 
petitioner, the respondent is not absolved of his duty to adduce evidence regard- 
ing facts within ids special knowledge. 

18. It is also to be pointed out that the witnesses examined by the petitioner 

are, except Gyarsiial P.W, 2 and Shamlal P.W. 8, active workers of the Jan 
Sangh Party of which the petitioner is an office bearer. Similarly, the wit- 
nesses examined by respondent No. 1 worked actively for the election campaign 
of respondent No. 1 at the time of last general election. However, this circum- 
stance by itself would not be enough to discard their evidence. That would 
only necessitate that their evidence should be scrutinised carefully before accept- 
ing it. ( 

19. Issue No, 2. — The evidence adduced by the petitioner on this issue may 
be classified as follows: — 

1. The evidence of witnesses who saw the respondent No. 1 at the Neemuch 

Printing Press when Exhibit P. 2 was being printed there on the 
20th February, 1957 and his taking active interest in having it printed. 
The witnesses on this point are Kanhaiyalal P.W. 3, Chitarmal P.W. 5 
and Shamlal P.W. 8. 

2. Witnesses who saw respondent No. 1 emerging out of the press with 

bundles of copies of leaflet Exhibit P. 2, getting into a car, and 
distributing copies of P. 2 when the car proceeded" towards Neemuch 
City from the press. Gyarsiial P.W. 2, Udcram P.W. 4 and Kishan- 
chand P.W. 7 depose about this. 


No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 


No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 

No. 



912 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28. 1831 [Part II 


3. Witnesses who saw respondent No. 1 distributing pamphlets Exhibit 
F. 1 and P. 2 at vances places and reading them out at the places 
mentioned against udi witness. They are: — Laxmmarayan Pandey 
P.W, 1 (at Hingnod), Mohansingh P.W. (1 (at Mandsaur), Vimal- 
knmar P,W. 9 (at Khanpura), and Saty anarayan P.W. 10 (at Snigoli 
and Ratangarh), and Virendra Kumar P.W. 12 (at Slngoli). 

Khumansmgh P.W, 11 and Sundarlal Patw^ P.W. 13 say about distribu- 
tion of pamphlets Exhibits P. J and P. 2, but they do not say that 
it was respondent No. 1 who was distributing them. I shall theie- 
i'ore not discuss their evidence since issue No. 2 relates to publishing 
and distribution of these pamphlets by respondent No. 1. 

20. The witnesses examined by respondent No. 1 have deposed, in order to 
counter the evidence oi witnesses lor the petitioner, that no such distribution 
of pamphlets took place. It is Hgniiicant that all these witnesses of respondent 
No. 1 who had toured the entire constituency extensively for the election cam- 
paign of respondent No. 1, say that they never came across these pamphlets 
Exhibits P. 1 and P. 2 at any time during the election. II ma; r b- lhat it is 
tried to be suggested that these pamphlets were brought into ex’atence later 
to create basis for election petition. That suggestion cannot for a moment be 
countenanced. 

21. As early as the 22nd Fcbiuary 1937, even before the polling took place, 
and only two days after the 20th February 1957 when P. 2 is said to have been 
printed, and immediately after it is said to have been distributed, the petitioner 
had addressed a letter Exhibit P. t> to one Ramchandra one of the person; pur- 
porting to have signed these pamphlets. Therein he had referred to the distri- 
bution of such pamphlets. It is, therefore, beyond doubt that such pamphlets 
were m fact distributed even before the 22nd February 1957. 

22. These pamphlets were meant to run down the petitioner, a candidate 
opposing respondent No, 1 the Congress Party candidate, and to canvass votes 
for the latter. It is but natural that these pamphlets which form an important 
item in the election campaign of the Congress Party, would be widely distri- 
buted. They were certainly no* got printed just to be put in cold storage. Yet, 
it is strange that none of the witnesses for respondent No. 1, who toured the 
constituency should have come across a single copy of such pamphlets even 
though they toured the constituency when these pamphlets arc said to have 
been distributed, I am, therefore, not prepared to believe the ■ statements of 
these witnesses of respondent No. 1 that they did not come across any such 
pamphlets. That would justify a conclusion that the witnesses, including respon- 
dent No. 1, are not telling the truth when they say that they did not come across 
any such pamphlets. Their evidence is liable to be viewed with some suspicion. 

23. I shall now consider the evidence adduced by the petitioner that respon- 
dent No. 1 was at Neemuch Printing Press when Exhibit P. 2 'was being printed 
there. P.W. 3 Kanhaiyalal, who is an employee of another printing press at 
Necmuch, says that he was called on the 20th Februa"y 1957 at about 11 a,m, 
by Rameshchandra, the proprietor of the Neemuch Printing Press, to set in 
working order the treadle machine of his Press which had stopped working due 
to some disorder. He went there, found the matter of Exhibit P. 2 on the 
machine, repaired it, and in the meanwhile respondent No. 1 along with one 
Gulabchand Sethi, who is the President of Mandal Congress Committee, reached 
there. He was requested by respondent No. 1 to stay on to ensure that the 
machine would not again stop working and at about 2 or 3 p.m. respondent 
No. 1 ahd Gulabchand left with bundles of copies of pamphlet P. 2 in a car, 
and while proceeding in the car respondent No. 1 was distributing pamphlet 
P. 2. 

24. His evidence was crilieized for the respondent No 1 on the ground that 
though he came to know of Exhibit P. 2 affecting prospects of petitioner’s elec- 
tion he did not communicate with the petitioner and that he received no payment 
for the services rendered by him His evidence, it was submitted, was there- 
fore liable 1o be rejected as not reliable. I do not think so. He rendered casual 
service to a sister concern and it is nothing unnatural lhat he was not paid 
for such trifling service. At the time of pointing of P. 2 this witness was not 
assisting the petitioner in the election campaign There would be nothing un- 
natural if he had not pursued the matter bv contacting the petitioner, He 
remembers the date of printing to be 20th February 1957 because two days 
later on the 22nd February 1957 a pamphlet in reply to allegations in Exhibit 
P. 2 was got printed at the press where he is employed. I do not find anything 



yi3 


Si ( . 1 li-.j] THE G \/ETTE U1 IM'IA: Al’RIt, 18, 1959/CI 1A1 TRA 28, 1881 


in 111 -, cross-examination to doubt him ur a person who has come forward just 
to oblige the petitioner who belongs to the same political party to which he 
belong?. 

25. Chitxrmal P.W. 5 is a trader who gets his forms and bills printed at the 
Neemuch Ifimting Press. He says that on hearing that a pamphlet containing 
allegations against the petitioner was being printed at the Neemuch Printing 
Press ho out ol curiosity went there to see what exactly was being punted, and 
gamed access inside un the pretext of having to get his bills printed. He 
corroborates Kanhaiyalal P.W, 3 about Exhibit P. 2 being in the process of 
printing and about respondent No. 1 and Gulabchand leaving with copies of 
pamphlets and going away in a car distributing them. He iis a member of Jan 
Sangh Parlj to which the petitioner belongs. But that alone, as already stated 
earlier, should not be enough to reject his evidence. His evidence finds support 
from that of Shamlal P.W. 8 who does not belong to the Jan Sangh Party and 
who cannot be said to be a peison interested in the petitioner. 

26. Shamlal P.W. 8 sells news-sheet Snnket which is printed at the Neemuch 
Printing Press. He goes to that press daily to render account of the sales. 
According to him when on that particular day he went to the press he found 
copies of P. 2 on the floor which he tied up into bundles at the instance ol the 
propuetur Rameshehandra and handed them to respondent No. 1 and Gulab- 
chand Sethi. I see nothing in the cross-examination ol this witness, who appears 
to be a disinterested one, to view his testimony with suspicion. 

27. In order to counter this evidence respondent No. 1 has examined Kastur- 
chand R.W. 7 and Girwarsingh E.W. 11, who say that they had gone on the 20th 
February 1957 to the Necmuch Printing Press to have their own respective 
printing work done. They got it done on that day, but did not see Exhibit P. 2 
being printed there or respondent No. 1 being at that press. There is also the 
denial of respondent No, 1 from the witness-box about his visiting the Neemuch 
Printing Press at any time during the election, 

28. Kasturchand R.W. 7 docs not at all refer to the presence of Girwai singh 
R.W. 11 at the Neemuch Printing Press on that day, when he visited it, which 
according to him was on the 20th February 1957, He signed an order for that 
printing woik done at his instance. That document would have been the best 
evidence about the date of his visit to the press. No attempt was made to have 
that document before the Tribunal. He would have it believed that he was 
sitting all alone from 9-30 a.m. to 4 r.M. in the room where the treadle machine 
was. Yet, he could not state the size of the room though he had the boldness 
to deny the suggestion that the room is so small that it cannot accommodate 
any person except the operator. 

29. The presence of Girwarsingh R.W. 11 at that time is not referred to by 
"Kasturchand, though the former would have it believed that he was talking to 
Kasturchand during the time he was at the press. No questions were put either 
to Kanhaiyalal P.W. 3, or Chitarmal P.W. 5 or Shamlal P.W. 8 about the presence 
of these two persons at the press on that day. Girwarsingh R.W. 11 could 
remember the date of his visit to the Neemuch Printing! Press which was 
nearly two years ago; yet, he could not remember the date of his visit to Ujjain 
at the last Kartik-Mela which had taken place only about two months before 
his examination. He would have it believed that ho remained at the press all 
the time from about 1 l'.M. to 4 p.m. just to see lhat the printing work which 
be wanted to be done was completed. Yet, he leaves without getting that print- 
ed matter. He could not remember what else besides the printing machine 
was in that room where he was sitting and where the composing department 
of the press was. 

30. Respondent No. 1 has not been straightforward when making statements 
Erom the witness-box. He denied that he had at any time visited Neemuch 
Printing Press during the election. This press prints the news-sheet Sanket 
which was supporting the candidature of respondent No. 1. It is, therefore, 
hard to believe that during his visits to Neemuch Respondent No. 1 would not 

__ be going to the press. It is also hard fo believe his statement that he never 
came to know of ExhibiLs P. 1 and P, 2 which are important from the point of 
view of his election campaign, till he received notice of this election petition, 
especially so when these pamphlets must have been widely distributed during 
the time respondent No. 1 was touring that locality. He was not even prepared 
to admit an indisputed fact that Ringnod and Dhodar arc near each other. When 
pressed further he had to admit that he did not know the distance between the 
two places. *■ 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :APRJL 18, 1959/CHAT1 RA 28. 1881 [I’\rt II 


9 i 4 


31. In paragraph 5 of his deposition he categorically denied his visiting to 
Cheelakheda and Ringnod during the entire election. In paragraph 22 of his 
deposition he admitted that he had attended a Harijan Sammclan at Cheeta- 
kheda. When put a specific question whether he would deny that this was held on 
the 21st February 1957 he stated that he would not be prepared to say that 
that statement was incorrect. Thus his statement that the Sammclan was held 
before the election campaign started appears to have been made just to get 
over the contradiction in his admission about having attended the Sammelan 
add his denial earlier of having never visited Cheetakheda. 

32. Respondent No. 1 visited Jaora on the 21st February 1957, He was there 
on the 23rd February 1957 and 24th February 1957. Ringnod is only about five 
miles from Jaora (vide R.W. 3 Kundanmal'), a prominent worker of the Congress 
party, Bhikamchand R.W. 2 lives at Ringnod. He was in charge of arrange- 
ments to be made on behalf of the Congress Party at the various polling booths 
in Ringnod Revenue Circle. It, therefore, appears unnatural that respondent 
No. 1 who was at Jaora on the 21st February 1957, 23rd February 1957 and 
24th February 1957 would not be visiting Ringnod only five miles away. In view 
of these comments regarding the testimony of respondent No. 1 I do not think 
that his denial of his visiting to Neemuch Printing Press on the 20th February 
1957 would be enough to negative the evidence of Kanhaiyalal P.W. 3, Chitarmal 
P.W. 5 and Shamlal P.W. 8 that he in fact was at the Neemuch Printing Press 
when Exhibit P. 2 was ^eing printed there. 

33. Santoshchandra R.W. 1, Mansingh R.W, 8 and Nandramdass R.W. 12 have 
been examined by the respondent No, 1 to show that on the 20th February 1957, 
when respondent No. 1 is said to be at the Neemuch Printing Press at the time 
of printing of Exhibit P. 2, he could not have been there as on that day he was 
at Bhanpura, Rampma, Kukdeshwar and Manasa. The evidence of Santosh- 
chandra does not make it improbable that after respondent No. 1 left him at 
Bamori on the 20th February 1957 at noon the latter could not have been at 
Neemuch by 2 p.m. on that day. The distance between Bamori and Neemuch 
is not such as would make it impossible for respondent No. 1 to be at Neemuch 
in the afternoon of that day. There is evidence that all the electioneering tour 
was done in a Jeep. 

34. Mansingh R.W. 8 and Nandramdass R.W. 12 though they depose about 
identical events, namely respondent No. 1 reaching Rampuna at /12-30 p.'m., 
leaving there at 3-30 p.m, their accompanying him to Kukdeshwar and being 
with him till 9 p.m. at Manasa, do not refer to each other, as being present with 
respondent No. 1. Mansingh R.W. 8 does not say that Nandramdass was with 
respondent No, 1 during the tour and Nandramdass does not say that Mansingh 
was with respondent No. 1. Moreover, respondent No. 1 himself has not said 
a word about his being with these two witnesses on the 20th February 1957, 
at the places mentioned above. I, therefore, find relying on the evidence of 
Kanhaiyalal P.W. 3. Chitarmal P.W. 5, and Shamial P.W. 8 that respondent 
No. 1 was present at the Neemuch Printing Press when Exhibit P. 2 was being 
printed there, and that he left the press with bundles of copies of Exhibit P. 2. 

35. I shall now consider the evidence about respondent No. 1 distributing 
this pamphlet P, 2 at Neemuch on the 20th February 1957. The three witnesses 
of the petitioner mentioned above, whom I have believed, say that on coming 
oul of the Printing Press respondent No. 1 and Gulabchand Sethi get into a 
car, and proceeded towards Neemuch City and on the way distributed Exhibit 
P. 2. Gyarsilai P.W. 2, who is an independent witness, says that he saw certain 
persons going in a car which started from the Neemuch Printing Press and 
distributing Exhibit P. 2. Though he does not refer to respondent No. 1 specifi- 
cally, his evidence corroborates the testimony of witnesses mentioned above 
and others to whom reference will be made later, that the persons going in that 
car from the Neemuch Printing Press distributed copies of Exhibit P. 2. 

36. Uderam P.W. 4 has his shop opposite Neemuch Printing Press. Similarly, 
Kishanchand P.W. 7 had at the relevant time his chemist shop near the Neemuch 
Printing Press. They both corroborate the version that respondent No, 1 did 
distribute copies of Exhibit P. 2 when proceeding in a car from Neemuch Print- 
ing Press. I see no reason to disbelieve them. The mere fact that the petitioner 
and these witnesses belong to the same political party would not be enough by 
itself to discredit their testimony. They are persons who have their shops close 
to Neemuch Printing Press and could have witnessed the incident. The evidence 
of Gyarsilai P.W. 2, an independent witness, does establish that such an incident 
took place. I find that respondent No. 1 did distribute copies of Exhibit P. 2 at 
Neemuch on the 20th February 1957 



Sec. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, I959/CHAITRA i'E, 1881 gjj 


37. There now remains for consideration the other evidence about distribu- 

tion and reading out of pamphlets Exhibits P. 1 and P. 2 by respondent No. 1 
at other places. Laxminarayan Pandey P.W. 1, a medical practitioner of Jaora, 
says that two or three days before the 25th February 1957, which was the date 
of poll, he saw respondent No. 1 distributing copies of Exhibit P. 1 at Ringnod 
in the Bazar Chauk. I have already pointed out that the testimony of respon- 
dent No. 1 that he did not visit Ringnod during the election is not such as would 
inspite confidence. Bhikamchand R.W. 2 does support the statement of respon- 
dent No. 1 on that point, but for reasons already stated that statement is open 
to doubt, He says that Laxminarayan Pandey P.W. 1 did not visit Ringnod two 
or three days before the date of poll, and thus wanted to belie the statement 
of Laxmina ayan about his visit to Ringnod. Bhikamchand admits that he used! 
to be out of Ringnod every day till evening for election campaign, and hence, 
that statement of his does not negative the truth of what Laxminarayan Pandey 
said. 1 

38, According to Mohansingh P.W. 6, he saw respondent No. 1 distributing 
copies of Exhibit P. 1 at Mandsaur on the 24th February 1957 at about 8 a.m. 
He himself was given a copy by respondent No. 1. The latter was at Jaora 
on the 23rd February 1957 and the 24th February 1957. Even the cam of the- 
petitioner is that the pamphlet Exhibit P. 2 was distributed by respondent No. 1 
at Ringnod, which is near Jaora, on the 23rd February 1957. There is therefore 
no occasion to doubt the statement of Kundanmal R.W. 3 that the respondent 
No. 1 was at Jaora on the 23rd February 1957 and the 24th February 1957. 

It is, therefore, not safe to rely on the statement of Mohansingh that at 8 a.m. 
on the 24th February 1957 respondent No, 1 was at Mandsaur. Moreover, accord- 
ing to Kalyan R.W. 10, who was at Sitamau for election campaign of Congress- 
Party till the 24th February 1957, he had seen Mohansingh at Sitamau on 
24th February 1957 at about 8 a.m. and again at 9 a.m. Rajmal, R.W. 4, whose 
testimony cannot be challenged except on the ground that he is the father of 
the candidate of Congress Party for Assembly Seat from Sitamau constituency, 
which by itself would not be enough to discredit his testimony, also had seen 
Mohansingh at Sitamau on the 24th February 1957. I, therefore, do not place- 
reliance on the evidence of Mohansingh about the respondent No. 1 distributing 
copies of Exhibit P. 1 at Mandsaur on the 24th February 1957, 

39. Vimalkumar P.W. 9 is a sitting member of Madhya Pradesh Vidhan Sabha 
from the Garoth Constituency. He lives at Bhanpura and deposes about a public 
meeting convened by the Congress Party at Bhanpura two dims before the poll, 
which took place on the 1st Ma-ch 1957, and which respondent No 1 had addressed, 
and at which he read out Exhibit P. 1. There is absolutely nothing in his cross- 
examination to discredit his testimony. 

40. That there was a meeting at Bhanpura on the 27th February 1957 convened 
by the Congress Party is evident from the statement of respondent’s witnesses 
Santoshchandra R.W. 1. He, however, says that at that meeting respondent No, 1 
was not present, and that he did not see Vimalkumar at that meeting. Vimal- 
kumar was watching the meeting from inside the shop of Nana Nai near the 
place of that meeting, and even according to Santoshchandra R.W. 1, a person 
sitting in*ide the shop would not be visible to person at the place of meeting. 
Thus, the fact that Santoshchandra did not see Vimalkumar when the former 
was presiding at the meeting does not belie the statement of the latter that he 
was present and watching the meeting from Nana Nai’s shop. 

41, Respondent No. 1, it is said, was not p-esent at that meeting. That meet- 

ing and the meeting held the next day at Bhanpura were to be addrssed by 
important personages who had been called from outside, especially to address 
these meetings. The Jhalawar Naresh had addressed the meeting on the 27th 
February 1957 and Ajltsmgh from Delhi had addressed the meeting on the next 
day. It is very improbable, when such important persons were to address the 
election meetings, in favour of candidature of respondent No. 1 in his constituency, 
that he would not be present. Respondent No. 1 has denied having read out and 
distributed Exhibits P. 1 and P. 2 at Bhanpura. I have earlier commented on 
his testimony as not being straightforward, I therefore, believing Vimalkumar 
P.W. 9 find that respondent No, 1 did read out Exhibit P. 1 at meeting at Bhanpura 
on the 27th February 1957. i 

42, Virendrakumar P.W. 12, who had contested the Assembly seat from Jawad 
constituency, in which lies the village Singoli, says that at Singoli he saw respon- 
dent No. 1 addressing an election meeting and after the address copies of Exhibit 
P. 1 being distributed there. This according to him, was at 9 f.m. on the 20th 
February 1957, The presence of respondent No. 1 at Neemuch in the afternoon 



91 6 I HI GAZETTI- IK INDIA AI'RIl IS i'r.J 'Cl I \ J- [SHI fP\ R , [{ 


of that day does not render the story of Virendrakumar improbable. Respondent 
No. i ah'-- being at Ncemueh m the afternoon could have reached Smgoli by 
9 r.M. The mere fact that Vimalkumar belongs to a political party in opposition 
to the Congress Party to which respondent No. 1 belongs would not be enough 
to discredit his evidence. I believe him, and find that at S ngoli the pamphlet 
P. 1 was detribufcd at a meehng addressed by respondent No. 1. 

i3. The result of the above discussion of evidence is that I find that if has 
been satisfactorily proved (hat respondent No. 1 distributed copies of Exhibit 
P, 2 at Ncemueh, at Ringnod, that he distributed copies of Exhibit P. 1 at Singoli 
and that be read out Exhibit P, 1 at a public meeting at Bhanpura. 

44. L'me No. 3, — The question now for consideration is whether the publishing 
of the pamphlets P. 1 and P. 2 by respondent No. 1 amounls to corrupt p_actice 
oi undue influence. The heading of the pamphlets has already been reproduced 
eailie. . A literal translation thereof would be as follows: — 

Voters of Mandsaur Parliamentary Constituency, the Chittor of Suti Padmni, 
Mahai ana Pratap and Mccra is cursing. 

Banister Trivcdi has deceived the public. The violation of oath of Kali 
Mui must be revenged (or the violator of oath of Kali Mai must be 
made to suffer). 


40. It is unnecessary to ^et out the contents of the rest of the pamphlets. The 
petitioner does not rely on those contents as constituting undue influence. The 
gist of the contents is that the petitioner managed to obtain ticket of the Jan 
Sangh Party for contesting the election to the Lok Sabha from Chittor -Udaipur 
constituency by forming pacts v,i11i vested interests who preyed on the public, 
and though he hud sworn by Kali-Mai to pay attention to the grievances of the 
constituency he having won the election clean forgot the electorate and thus 
had violated the oath of Kali-Mai, for which he should be made to suffer. There 
are also allegations about his not benefitting the constituency, and his entering 
into some sort of understanding with Shri R. B. Muity involving payment of 
monetary consideration for managing to obtain ticket to contest from the Mand- 
saur Parliamentary constituency. There is than eulogy of the Congress Party 
-Candidate, the respondent No. 1, and an appeal to vote for him. 

46. The petitioner submitted that the publication of the heading of these pam- 
phlets by itself was enough to interfere with the free exercise of the electoral 
right inasmuch as it conveyed to the electors that the petitioner had been cursed 
by Sati Padmni, Mccra, Maharana Pratap and Chhitor. These personages and 
'Chhitor command reverence in that locality, and the impression created and 
intended to be created, it was submitted, was that the petitioner having been 
thus cursed was a most undesirable, person, and whoever voted for him would 
.also incur the curse of Sati Padrnni, Meera and Maharana Pratap who were 
regarded in that area where the pamphlets were distributed as local deities. 

47. Before dealing with these submissions I will refer to the decisions cited 
by the petitioner. Abdul Rouf vs. Makhtar All 2 E.L.R. 340 is a decision laying 
down the standard of proof required to establish coirupt practice. I have already 
stated earlier in para. 17 above what should be the standard of proof. Inayatulla 
vs- Dewanchandra A.I.R. 1959 Madhya Piadesh 58 is also another decision 
supporting that view. 

48. In Jagjiwandass SheLy vs Sanjiwa Shetty 3 E.L.R. 358 it was pointed out 
that corrupt intention is essential for establishing corrupt practice. The view 
that, hope of spiritual benefit would also amount to undue influence did not find 
favour with the Tribunal deciding that case, and it was observed that when 
use of spritual authority was made basis for allegation of corrupt practice of 
undue influence it was the provlsq (a 1 ) (ii) to section 123(2) that would he 
attracted. Thus, in the view of that Tribunal thcic should he fear of spritual 
displeasure and not hope of spritual benefit in order to make out practice of 
undue influence where spritual authority is said to have been brought into use. 


49, Shardulsingb vs. Hukamsingh, 6 E.L.R. 316 is also lo the same effect and 
it was pointed out therein that where influence is said to be by religious appeal, 
it should be shown that it was made to appear to the persons addressed that 
non-compliance would be considered to be irreligious or sinful, It was also 
pointed out that the proviso to section 123(2) of the Representation of People 
Act showed what kind of interference was contemplated to bring the case under 
the corrupt practice of undue influence. In Gurnamsingh vs. Pratapslngh, 
7 E.L.R. 338 it was observed that statements invoking divine pleasure or spritual 
'benefit for those who vote in a particular way would not fall within section 



Sec. ;t (h)] HIE G \/ETI E OF INDIA: 7 VPJI.IL 18, 1959/C1IA1TRA 28, 1881 917 


123(2i . It was pointed out in Jujharsingh iv>. Bherolal, 7 E.L.E. 457 that 

memous if inducement to a.mm.l to undue influence must he L uch as to leave 
no 1 ec \v ill to the voi er in exercise of his choice. 

50. Dr. K. N. Gairola vs. Gangadhnr Maithani, 8 E.L.R. 105 was a case where 
one of tee candidates had given out that displeasure of local deities would be 
incurred by not voting in a paiticular way and that was held to amount to undue 
influence. 

51. (i) Bhikaji Kesha’’ Jo hi is. B. N, Biyani, 10 E.B.R. 357, (2) M. M. Man- 
juran v K. C. Abraham iu liLR. 375, (3) Bhagwandatt vs. R. R. Gupta, 11 
ELR 4 ‘8, (4 1 San gap a vs. Shivmurty Swami, 13 E.L.R. 305, cited by the peti- 
tioner’ 00 mu deal with undue influence except the case No. 2 The lirst deals 
with question oi necessity for pa’ Genial’.,. The second case deals with among 
other ,h v- , jyonc” and also point, jiu that a priest by advising votin'. to vote 
in a pjiti'uiar way would not be exc. casing undue influence. It is only threat 
or appeal to fear terror or superstition of those addressed that would amount to 
undue influence. The third case lays clown that when evidence is adduced by 
both * ides absence of particulars in the petition regarding corrupt practice would , 
not be ma ei’ial and would not warrant dismissal of petition on that ground. 
The iourth decision only lays down that Jrcfli instances of corrupt practice already 
alleged can be allowed to be introduced by way of amendment, 

52. The gist of the decisions relating to corrupt practice of undue influence 
is that the appeal to the voters must be by such method as leaves no free will 
to them and that if allegation of undue influence is sought to be based on use 
of spiritual authority it is the proviso to section 123(2) which would be attracted. 

53. It is in the light of these considerations that it has to be ascertained 
whether the publication of the pamphlets P. 1 and P. 2 by respondent No. I, in 
the sense of his reading them out at public meetings and distributing them, 
amounts to undue influence. For that purpose the contents of the pamphlets 
have to bo scrutinised. The heading of the pamphlets on which the petitioner 
relies to support his contention nowheie mentions that Salt Padmni, Meera or 
Maharaua Pralap had cursed the petitioner. What the heading mentions is that 
Chhitor hallowed by being associated with those persons who lived there in the 
past was cursing the petitioner. It is only a rhetoric way of putting that the 
petitioner had incurred the wrath of the public of Chhitor. 

54. Some of the witnesses for the petitioner have said that by that sentence 
they understood that Sail Padmni, Mccra, and Maharana Pratap had inflicted a 
curse on the petitioner. Accepting that that allegation could be understood in 
that way by the illiterate masses and villagers among whom the pamphlets wore 
distributed and read out, I fail to „eo how that would amount to corrupt practice 
of undue influence, since there war no insinuation that persons helping the peti- 
tioner would also be subject to the wrath of Sati Padmni, Meera and Maharana 
Pratap, who are revered in that locality almost as local deities. The statement 
that petitioner was a man cursed by them or had incurred their wrath cannot by 
any stretch of imagination be under stood to mean that any person who would 
vote for him would also meet the fate of the petitioner. Virendrakumar P.W. 12 
and the petitioner U. M. Trivcdi P.W. 14 have said that many voters whom they 
contacted had understood that statement in the pamphlet in that particular way. 
Not a single such person has been examined. Moreover, the petitioner himself 
had not initially when filing the petition thought that that statement in the pam- 
phlets was beuig understood in that way. He had stated in para. 14 of the petition 
that the publication of the pamphlet amounted to undue influence because thereby 
respondent No 1 attempted to induce the electors to believe that the petitioner 
(not the voter) would be rendered an object of spiritual censure. 

55. The statement in the pamphlet ‘‘Kali-Mai ke saugandh ka badla jarur lena” 
was relied upon as constituting undue influence, It was submitted by the peti- 
tioner that the suggestion intended to be conveyed bv that appeal was that the 
petitioner having violated the oath of Kali Mai should be dealt with by not voting 
foi him and that a person who did not so punish the petitioner (by not voting 
for him) would be displeasing Kali Mai or showing disrespect or indifference to 
Kali Mai. I am unable to agree thnf that was Ihe suggestion or that any person 
could understand that appeal to mean that if he voted for the petitioner he would 
he failing in his duty to Kali Mai. It would not be permissible to read into 
the contents of the pamphlets mmethinc; which was not there and which was 
not even hinted at. 

56. The pel it ; oner then argued t'hai there would be undue influence in the 
general sense if anything w,r done to interfere with lire free exercise of electoral 
right, and that the proviso to section 123(2) related to special kind of undue 



918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAIIRA 28. 1881 [PjIft 11 


influence. It was argued that even if no threat of divine displeasure was con- 
veyed by what was stated in the pamphlets P, 1 and P. 2, all the same, if the 
publishing of the contents left no free will to the voter the publication by respon- 
dent No. 1 would amount to undue influence. The argument, as I understand 
it, seems to be that if the pamphlets conveyed that the petitioner was such a 
person who had been cursed by or had incurred the wrath of Sati Padmni,, 
Maharana Pratap and Meera (who are revered by the general mass of people 
in that areal, the voters would consider themselves duty bound not to vote 
for such a person and hence would be left with no free will in exercise of their 
choice I am afraid that interpreting the contents of the pamphlets in that way 
would be reading into them something that was not there. All that the pam- 
phlets contain is that the petitioner by his acts and omissions had incurred the 
wrath of the public of Chnitor. I would, therefore, find that the publishing of 
the pamphlets P. 1 and P. 2 docs not amount to undue influence. I find issue 
No, 3 in the negative. 

57. It was argued by the petitioner that even if his allegation about corrupt 
practice under section 123(21 Representation of People Act being committed were 
held as not proved, the election of respondent No. 1 was liable to be declared void 
because he had committed the corrupt practice under section 123(4) of the Act. 
He relied on Abdul Jalil vs. Ratindranath A.I.R. 1958 Assam 51 for his sub- 
mission that even though no issue had been framed regarding corrupt practice 
under section 123(4) being committed, if the evidence disclosed that such a 
corrupt practice had been committed then there was nothing in the way of 
recording a finding to that effect and declaring election of respondent No. 1 void 
on that account. 

58, In the Assam case-.one of the grounds on which the petitionerdiad challanged 
the election was commission of corrupt practice under section 123(4?) by publishing 
certain matter, namely that leftists (who had formed united front to oppose the 
Congress Party candidate) do not admit the independence of India, ancf if they 
are elected the Muslims would be driven out of Bharat and will create feuds with 
neighbouring countries. This matter was read out by the respondent at certain 
meetings. It was held that such publication did not amount to corrupt practice 
under section 123(4), and that as it amounted to corrupt practice under section 
123(2) the tribunal was justified in setting aside his election on the ground of 
commission of corrupt practice of undue influence (which had not been alleged 
in the petition) as the Tribunal had not allowed evidence to be led on that parti- 
cular head of corrupt practice which had not been alleged and that the conclusion 
of the Tribunal could be based on the evidence that was already there and adduced 
in support of a corrupt practice under section 123(4). In that case the matter 
published by itself was held to amount to a threat of injury to elector. 


59. The converse however, that when corrupt practice under section 123(2) is 
alleged finding of commission of corrupt practice under section 123(4) would be 
justified, on the evidence adduced in support of corrupt practice of undue influence 
would not hold good. In establishing corrupt practice under section 123(4) the 
petitioner has not only to prove that the statement published relating to his 
personal character was false b\it has further prove that the respondent believe it 
to he false or did not believe it to be true. In the present case there has been no 
enquiry whether certain statements in Exhibits P.l and P.2 relating to personal 
character of petitioner were false, and whether they were believed to be false or 
not believed to be true by the respondent No. 1. ite had no opportunity to meet 
any such case, 

60. The decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Maganlal Bagdi Vs. 
Hari Vishnu Kamath First appeal No. 5 of 1958 dated 25th April 1958 was relied 
on by the petitioner for his submission that the evidence on record was enough to 
establish that the contents of Exhibits P.l and P,2 could not have been believed 
to be true by respondent No. 1. It was submitted that he had made no enquirv 
whether the persons purporting to have signed these pamphlets had really issued 
them, and as such he could not have believed that they did issue them. In the. 
decision relied on by the petitioner the falsitv of statement that. Shrimati Sucheta 
Krmlani advised the voters not to vote for the respondent was undisputed and it 
was also found that it could not have been believed to be true by the respondent 
since to his knowledge Shrimati Sucheta Kriplani had not issue any such appeal. 
There is no material on record to show that the persons purporting to have signed 
P.l and P.2 had not issued these pamphlets, or thht respondent No. 1 knew that 
they had not signed them. The mere fact that he did not contact them to ascertain 
if they had issued these pamphlets would not be enough to hold that he knew that 



919 


Sec. 3 (ii)] TI1F GAZETTE OF INDIA. APRIL 18, 1959/C.HA1TRA 28, 1881 


they had not issued such an appeal. I am, therefore, unable to accept the con- 
tention of the petitioner that on the material on record finding of corrupt practice 
under section 123(4) being committed by respondent No. 1 should be recorded even 
though no enquiry was made about commission of such corrupt practice. 

61, Issues No. 9 and. 10.— Since the cprrupt. practice of undue influence has not 
been established, and since no other allegations that were put in issue on the 
basis of which election of respondent No. 1 was sought to be declared to be void 
have been established, I answer issue No, 9 in the negative. It follows that issue 
No. 10 has to be answered in the negative. I answer it accordingly. 

62. The election petition is dismissed with costs. The petitioner shall pay the 
costs of respondent No. 1 except the costs of witnesses of respondent No. 1 (which 
shall be borne by respondent No. 1) and shall bear his own costs, Counsels fee 
wiil be Rs 300. 

The 3rd March, 1959. 

C. B. Rekre, 

Member Election Tribunal, Ujjain (M.P.). 

TNo. 82/62/57/6219.1 


New Delhi, the 7th April 1958 1 

S.O. 797.— Whereas the election of Dr. Balkrishna Vishwanath Keskar as a 
member of the House of the People from the Musaflrkhana Constituency, has been 
called in question by an election petition duly presnted under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), by Haji Abdul Wahid, son 
of Haflz Abdul Ghani, resident of Mohalla Khairabad, District Sultanpur, Uttar 
Pradesh; 

And whereas the Elction Tribunal appointed by the Election _Commlssion in 
pursuance of the provisions of section 86 of the said Act, for the trial of the said 
election petition, dismissed the said election petition by an order doted the 26th 
September, 1957, published In the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 
3, dated the 28th October, 1957; 

And whereas the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, on the writ petition 
No. 1044 of 1958 filed by Hajl Abdul Wahid, quashed the said order of the Election 
Tribunal by its order dated the 19th August, 1958 published In the Gazette of 
India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 13th October, 
1958, and remanded the said petition for further trial; 

And whereas the said Election Tribunal after further trial of {he petition has, 
In pursuance of the provisions of section 103 of the said Act, sent a copy of its 
■order in the said petition to the Commission; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the said Act, 
{he Election Commission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal. 

IN THE COURT OF MEMBER, ELECTION TRIBUNAL, UTTAR PRADESH 

ALLAHABAD 

Present : Sri K. K, Banerjl 
Election Petition No. 451 op 1957, 

Haji Abdul Wahid son of Haflz Abdul Ghani, resident of Mohalla 1 Khairabad, 
district Sultanpur, U.P. — Petitioner. 

Versus 

1. Dr. Balkrishna Vishwanath Keskar, Minister for Information and Broadcasting, 
India, New Delhi. 

Sri Viddyadhar Bajpal son of Sri Chandra Dutt Bajpal, resident of Mohalla 
Knairabad, district Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh — Respondent. 

JUDGMENT 

+ . I s a . n Election Petition filed under section 81 of the Representation of 

™£,,„ e< ? p e Act 1951, by the Petitioner, Haji Abdul Wahid, hereinafter to be 
rererred as the Petitioner, against Dr. Balkrishna Vishwanath Keskar, Respondent 



92 3 


1 1-IE GA/ETTL OF 1NDI \ : APRIL 1R, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Pun II 


No. 1, hereinafter to be referred us Respondent, and Sri Vidya Diiar Bajpal. 
Respondent No. 2. who has not opposed the Petition and has been examined by 
the Ptitioner as his witness, (P.W, 25). 

The Petitioner’s case is that the President of Indian Union issued t writ on 
the f5th of January, 1957, directing the electorate to elect their represi r .atlves to 
the Lok Sabha before 31st of March, 1957, (If appears there is a mistake in the 
date given in the peution. On behalf of the Respondent a copy of the gazette 
of India extraordinary. Part 11, has been filed, and from the Notification „t appears 
tnat the President of India was pleased to call uuon all Parliamentary Con. litu- 
encies ill the vinous States, including Uttar Pradesh, to elect mcmbe.o accord- 
ing to the provisions of section 14 of Ihe Representation ot the People Act. This 
Notification is dated the 19th of January, 1957. It appears, therefore, that the 
President of India called upon the Parliamentary constituencies to elect members 
lor the House of the People on the 19th of January, 1957. The discrepancy in 
the dates, however, is not material) The last date for filing the nomination 
papers was 29th of January, 1057, and the Petitioner and the Respondents Nos. 1 
and 2 filed their respective nomination papers for a seat in the House oi the 
People from the Musafirkhana Parliamentary constituency, within the District 
of Sultanpur, The nomination papers of all the three candidates were found 
valid on sciutiny but, later, Respondent No 2, Sri Viddya Dhur Bajpai, withdrew 
from the contest and there remained only two candidates from ihe Musafirkhana 
Constituency, one the petitioner, whose symbol was an 'Elephant', and the Res- 
pondent, whose symbol was ‘a pair of bullocks with a yoke on’. The Petitioner 
contested the election as an Independent candidate and the Respondent r s a 
member of the Congress party. 


The polls in this Musafirkhana Parliamentary constituency look place on the 
3rd, 6th and 9th of March, 1957, and the counting of. the votes was done on the 
18th of March, 1957. As a result of the counting the Respondent was declared 
to h" duly elected by the Returning Officer, on the 20th of March, 195?. 


The details of the grounds on which the Petitioner seeks a declaration, that 
ihe election was void and that he should be declared duly elected in place of the 
Respondent, are given in various paragraphs and sub-paragraphs of the Petition, 
ocglnning from paragraph 7 to paragraph 12. It may be staled here that Ihe 
Petition, as originally presented, suffered from lack of essential details but these 
were supplied later on by leave of this Tribunal when an application under- 
section 90, sub-section (5) was filed by the Petitioner with u prayer that _ he should 
be allo.vod to give particulars of the corrupt practices as alleged in hi. Petition 
and also to amend or amplify the same. It may further be stated that the classi- 
fication of the instances of corrupt practices has not been artistically drawn up 
as several instances have been found to be over-lapping and some of the para- 
graphs numbered incorrectly on account, of wrong use of either the Lanital or 
the small letters of the alphabet. However, in spite of these defects, which in 
my opinion are not very material, the Petition presents several identifiable 
instances of corrupt practices said to have been committed by the Respondent. 

It is alleged in paragraph 7 that the Respondent exploited his position as a 
Minister of the Indian Union and at his instanre the District Magistrate of 
Sultannur and his subo-dinates arranged election meetings on his b'half and 
used their official influence to induce the electors to cast their votes in bis favour. 
In paragraph 7(A), details of these election meetings which were alleged io have 
been arranged by the District Magistrate and his subordinates have bpen given 
bowing that on the 15th of January, 1957, three meetings were held, one at 
Sultanpur, one in the Higher Secondary School in Bharkhnre and one al Karnta- 
gnnj Five such meetings were also held on the Iflth of January, 1957, at Aniethl, 
Thaura, Shahgarh, GauriganJ and Babu Gan). 


In paragraph 8 of the Petition it is alleged that on the 15th and lfith of 
January, 1957, the Respondent toured his constituency in a State car bearing the 
Ashoka, Chakra, the emblem of the Government of India, arid wherever he 
wen! the police presented him a guard of honour and the police and other Gov- 
ernment officials were tn constant attendance which gave the impress-ton to the 
electorate that the Government was backing the Respondent and if any one 
voted ngalnst him he would thereby Incur Government’s displeasure Pa-agraph 
8(A) is a part rendition of ihe allegations made tn paragraph 7 and also para- 
graph 8. adding that during the tour the Respondent -was accompanied by the 
District. Magistrate and the Superintendent- of Police. A few narticu 1 a-s were 
given under this paragraph 8(A). and the holding of meetings at Sultanpur, 
Bharkhare Kamtagapj, Amethi, Shahgarh, Gaurlganj and Babu Ganj, on the 
15th and 16th of January, 1957, was reiterated. 



Sec. s (u)J 1 111. GAZETTE Ol- INDIA: APRIL 1H, 1959 /Ci IAITRA 28 . 1881 92 1 


In paragraph 1.1(a) it has been alleged that one Kunwar Rananja.ya Singh 
ot Amethi who had succeeded in getting a seat in the Legislative Assembly 
in the election of 1852, was won over by the Respondent In the 1857 election, 
by holding ou t a promise tu him, that he, the Respondent, would get him nomi- 
nated as a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council if he became his 
active supporter. As a result of this rewaid offered to Kunwar Rananjaya 
Singh, it is said, the latter did not stand in the election and held public meetings 
in support ot the Respondent's candidature, at several places, stating that the 
Petitioner carried on the trade in animal bones, including the bones ol cows, 
which oilended the sentiment ol the Hindus, and tnat li elected the Petitioner 
would leave no stone unturned to get cow-slaughter re-started, for which any 
Hindu voting for the Petitioner would render himsell an object ol divine dis- 
pleasure and spiritual censure. The Respondent is also said to have addressed 
the same meetings in the same terms and Kunwar Rananjaya Singh, further, 
got a notice, Exhibit 1, printed, published and distributed amongst the electorate. 
It is also alleged that one Fri Rudra Pal Misra also distributed a notice Exhibit 
2, amongst the electors. I 11 paragraph ll(a)-(i) the particulais of the allegations 
made in paragraph 11(a) have been supplied m as-mucb as the places where the 
meetings were held have been named. The meeting' at Amethi on the ltith of 
Januaiy, 1957, is said to have been addressed by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
and others, and the meetings at other places on the 15th cf January, 1857, lfitn 
of January, 1957 and 8th ol February, 195?, are said to have been addressed 
by the Respondent No. 1. The meetings at Amethi and Lamhua Bazars are 1 
said to have been addressed by some other persons as well with the consent 
of the Respondent. In paragraph ll(a)-(ii) refeience has again been made ol 
Exhibits 1 and 2 having been distributed by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh and Sri 
Rudra Pal Singh, respectively, throughout the constituency. 


The corrupt practices, as mentioned in paragraph 11(b), is said to have been 
committed by Sri Ram Kishorc Shastri, private secretary to Kunwar 1\ umniaya 
Singh, who sent lor publication in the Sanatan, a local newspaper, the notice, 
Exhibit 1, and also a statement that the Petitioner was spending money Hire 
water and purchasing votes. This corrupt. practice is said to have been 
conimiltfcd on the 19th ol February, 1957. In paragraph 11(c), reference was 
again made oC Exhibits 1 and 2 and it is alleged that Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
told the electorate in various public meetings that the Petitioner was a 
Pakistani agent and if he was returned he would vote for Kashmir’s accession 
to Pakistan. As a result of the exhortations made by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh 
and also by the Respondent himself Vijai Pal Pande and Shrimati Pavitri Devi, 
who were candidates from the Assembly constituencies of Amethi, and Lamhua, 
respectively, withdrew their support of the Petitioner which they had at first 
promised. In paragraph 11(d) it is said that systematic appeal to the electorate 
to vote for the Respondent was made on the grounds of caste and community, 
and one Sri Jagga Dass, a Hariian appealed to the Harijan voters saying that 
they should never support the Petitioner who was a Muslim. In paragraph 
ll(d)-(i) it has been also alleged that Respondent no. 1, at the meetings detailed 
in sub-paragraph ll(a)-(i) addressed the electorate to refrain from voting for 
the Petitioner on the ground of caste and community and that his supporters 

also advanced similar appeals to the electorate on the tame grounds, \ dth the 

consent of the Respondent. In paragraph 11 (e)-(i) the use of the national flag 
by the Respondent has again been made with the particulars that il was so 
used irom the 15th of January, 1957 to Iflth of January. 1957, from 2fith of 
January, 1957, to 6th of February, 1957. and from 15th of February. 1957 to 

9ih of March, 1957. Paragraph 11(f) is another repetition about the notices 

Exhibits 1 and 2 alleging that such publications and distributions ami untcrl to 
a cortupt practice as defined in section 123 sub-section (4) of the Representation 
of the People Act. 


Paragraph 11(g) and sub-paragraph ll(g)-(i) refers to a distinct category 
oC corrupt practices, namely, hiring of ekkas and rickshaws by the Respondent 
and one Banke Beharl Vald on the 8th of March, 1957. Subsequent!' U i mid, 
many voters were brought to the polling stations of Lamhua and Ramgani on 
the 9th of March, 1957. Names of a few other persons have also been given as 
persons who had engaged such conveyances on behalf of the Respondent with 
his consent In paragraph 11(h), ll(h)-(i) and I1(h)(i)(l). it has lie xi slated 
that one Sri Deo Kali Din Shnrma, President of the District Board, Cd'annur, 
used the District Board’s station-wagon in the election campaign of the Res- 
pondent and on 5th February 1957 threatened the teachers with a t ran Her away 
from their houses, as a consequence of not voting for the Respondent It is 
also alleged that Sri Deo Kali Din held out promises to these teachers to make 
suitable transfers to their advantage if they voted for the Respondent. 



■922 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA • APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1S8I [Part II 


In paragraph 11(1), which includes several sub-paragraphs (i) to (vii), 
.promises of various kinds are said to have been made by the Respondent and 
his workers. In sub-paragraph (iv) it is stated that a meeting was held at 
Pakhruuh on 4th of March, 1957, which was addressed by the Respondent, in 
this_ way, that he had restored the dismentled Lueknow-Jaunpur railway line 
and’ had arranged to make Pakhrauli a Flag station but If the people of the 
locality did not vote in his favour he would see that the scheme was finally 
dropped,. In sub-paragraph (vii) It has been said that Sri Banke Behari, a 
paid Bhoodan worker, threatened the electorate stating that if the people of 
the locality voted for the Petitioner and against the Respondent the lands given 
to them by the Bhoodan Samiti would be taken back. In paragraph 11 (k). sub- 
paragraph (ii) reference has been made again of Jagga Dass and of several 
■other Harijans who addressed meetings at Abhayya Kalan ‘ and other places on 
4th and 8th of March, 1957, stating that if the Iiarijan community did not vote 
for the Respondent, Jagga Dass, a leader of the Harijans, would lose his job 
and the educational and other facilities granted to the Harijans by the Gov- 
ernment would be withdrawn. Paragraph 11 (k). sub-paragraph (1) refers about 
a threat in connection with a proposal of a pucca road, and sub-paragraph 
(iil) refers to certain gratifications estimable in money. In paragraph 11(1) 
it has again been alleged that the Respondent and his workers took the assistance 
»of some Government Officers in furtherance of the election and that Sri Deo 
Kali Din Sharma on 1st February 1957, when touring the Parliamentary 
constituency In the District Board's station-wagon, order the District Board 
school teachers at several places to close their schools after the mid-day Interval 
in order to go out for canvassing in favour of the Respondent. Paragraph 11 (m) 
refeis to the use of a postage stamp by the Government of India and in para- 
graph 11 (n) it Is said that the Respondent No. 1 through his agents, workers 
and canvassers got a man called Pahari Gujar, an active worker of the Petitioner, 
killed or abducted. It is alleged that undue influence was at first exercised 
upon him to induce him to refrain from working for the Petitioner but as he 
refused to yield to the temptations he was either abducted or killed on the 17th 
of February, 1957. His brother submitted an application before the Superin- 
'tendenl of Police, Sultanpur. but the latter, under the influence of the Res- 
pondent, took no steps on the same. 

The return of election expenses by Respondent No, 1 has been challenged 
in paragraph 11 (o) and, in paragraph 11 (p), it is said that the Respondent took 
the assistance of another Government servant, namely, his own private secretary, 
Sri Ghor Pade who was in charge of his election. Paragraph ll(q) refers to 
an alleged objectionable slogan as printed on a poster, which, admittedly, was 
distributed on behalf of the Respondent. In paragraph 12, it has been said 
that the Respondent had taken recourse to fraud and intentional misrepresenta- 
tions, that he had committed corrupt practices and electoral offences as set forth 
in the various paragraphs and that the result of the election -has been materially 
affected, as, otherwise, the Petitioner would have obtained a majority of valid 
■votes. 

The Respondent has filed his written statement, generally and specifically 
-denying all the allegations of corrupt practices made against him, his workers 
and his supporters. On these allegations and their denial the following issues 
fhave been framed: — 

(1) Whether the Respondent No. 1 enlisted the support of the District 

Magistrate and the Government Officers mentioned In paragraphs 7 
and 7A in arranging the election meetings of the 15th and _ 16th 
January, 1957, mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 7A of the petition, 
and was any corrupt practice committed by the Respondent no, 1? 

(2) Whether the Respondent no. 1 used the Ashoka Chakra and the State 

flag during the tour of his constituency on the 15th and 16th 
January, 1957, and whether any Government officer assisted In 
arranging meetings, election campaign and in propagandas as alleged 
in paragraphs 8 and 8A of the petition, and whether any corrupt 
practice was committed by the Respondent no. 1? 

(3 y Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the 
petition amount to obtaining or procuring assistance In furtherance 
of the prospects of the election of the Respondent no. 1 from persons 
in the service of the Government as defined in section 123(7) of 
the Representation of People Act?, 



Sec. 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18. 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 


923 


(4) Whether the Respondent no. 1 has been guilty of any fraud, intentional 

misrepresentation, corrupt practices and any other electoral offences 
alleged in paragraph 10 of the petition, and was it on account of 
such practices that he secured the majority of votes and won, the 
election? 

(5) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11(a), 11(a)(1) and 

11(a) (ii) of the Petition are true and whether any corrupt practice 
was committed by the Respondent No. 1 and his agents, canvassers 
and supporters as to invalidate his election? 

(6) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11(b) and 11(b)(1) 

are correct and was any corrupt practice committed as alleged in 
these paragraphs by the Respondent No. 1 within the meaning of 
section 123 (i) of the Representation of People Act? 

(7) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11(c) of the Petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice committed as alleged in 
this paragraph within the meaning of section 123(3) of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act?, 

(8) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11(d) and 11(d) (i) 

of the petition are correct and was the corrupt practice of making 
a systematic appeal to vote for Respondent No. 1 and to refrain 
from voting for the Petitioner on the ground of caste or community 
committed by the Respondent No. 1, and his active workers, can- 
vassers and supporters? 

(9) Whether the Respondent No. 1 is guilty of corrupt practice of using 

the National Flag or any national emblem in furtherance of the 
prospects of his election as defined in section 123(3) of the Repre- 
sentation of People Act? 

(10) Whether the alleged publication of the notice referred to in paragraph 

11(a) of the petition constitutes also the corrupt practice as alleged 
in paragraph 11(f) of the petition within the meaning of section 
123(4) of the Representation of People Act? 

( 11 ) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11(g) and 11(g)(1)' 

of the petition are correct and was any corrupt practice committed 
within the meaning of section 123(5) of the Representation of 
People Act?, 

(12) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11(h) of the petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice committed as defined in 
section 123.(2) of the Representation of People Act? 

(13) Whether the allegations contained in paragraphs 11 (i) and 11 (i) (i) 

of the Petition are correct and was any corrupt practice as defined 
in section 123(1) of the Representation of People Act committed? 

(14) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (j) of the Petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice within the meaning of 
section 123(1) and section 123(2) of the Representation of People 
Act committed? 

(13) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph ll(k) of the petition 
are correct and was any corrupt practice as defined in section 123(2) 
of the Representation of People Act committed? 

(16) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11(1) of the petition 

are correct and was any corrupt practice as defined in section 123(7) 
of the Representation of People Act committed? 

(17) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (m) of the petition 

arc correct and was any undue influence and inducement exercised 
on the electors for the purpose of procuring votes in favour of 
Respondent no, 1? 

(18) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (n) of the Petition 
are correct and wag the validity of the election affected? 

(19) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (o) of the Petition 

a''e correct and is the election of the Respondent no, 1. therefore 
invalid? 



924 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CIIAITRA 28, 1881 [Past II 


(20) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph 11 (p) of the Peti- 

tion are correct and is the validity of the election of the Respondent 

no. 1. affected? , j 

(21) Whether the allegations contained in paragraph ll(d') of the petition 

are correct and has any corrupt practice as alleged been comiuio^r '' 

(22) Whether as alleged in paragraph 12 of the petition the result of the 

election has been materially affected? 

(23) To what relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled? 

Both parties have led oral and documentary evidence. The Petitioner has 
examined 25 witnesses but has not, himself, come to the witness box. On behalf 
of the Respondent 26 witnesses have been examined including the Respondent, 
himself, who is R.W. 20. 

Issues 1, 2, 3, and 9, (Issues 1, second part of issue No. 2 and issue No. 3): — 

The issues upon which the Petitioner has drawn my attention with emphasis 
are Issues 1, 2, 3, and 9, These issues refer to paragraphs 7, 7A, 8, BA and 9. 
Broadly speaking, they idler to the arrangements made by Government Officers 
of meetings at serveval places to help the Respondent in his election, and to the 
use of the National Flag by the Respondent on the very same dates when the 
meetings were held, namely, on the 15th and 16th of January, 1957. As issue 
no. 2 refers to two different sets of facts it would be better if issue no. 1 in 
whole and the second part of issue no. 2 arc taken up together with issue no. 3 
which is the legal consequence following- the proof of facts in connection with 
issue no, 1 and second part of issue no. 2. The first part of issue no. 2 which 
relates to the use of the National Flag should be dealt with along with isme no. 9, 
which, to, is with respect to the use of the National Flag or of National emblem 
in furtherance of the prospects of a candidate as defined in section 123(3) of the 
Representation pf the People Act. The main ground adopted on behalf of the 
Petitioner is that the Respondent was holding himself out as a candidate from 
before the 20th of January, 1957, the date on which he purchased the nomina- 
tion paper from the Sultanpur treasury. I may refer here again that the last 
date for filing nomination papers was 29th of January, 1957. According to the 
Respondent (R. W. 20), he decided to contest for a seat in the Parliament in the 
election of 1957 when he got a ticket from the Central Congress Parliamentary 
Board for a seat in the Parliament from the Musafirkhana constituency, either 
on the 22nd or 23rd of January, 1957, and then filed his nomination paper on the 
29th of January, 1957, for which he had come cither on 25th or 26th of January, 
1957, to Sultanpur. According to the Respondent, therefore, there was no elec- 
tion work done by him or by liis partv prior to 25th or 26th of January, 1957. On 
the other hand, the Petitioner has tried to prove by oral and documentary evi- 
dence that the Respondent was holding himself out at least from 9 th of January, 
1957, when he purchased a copy of the electoral roll. According to the Petitioner, 
the Respondent was holding himself out as a candidate with the election in pros- 
pect. Trie learned counsel on behalf of the Petitioner has argued on the strength 
of the definition of the word “candidate", that the Respondent should be deemed 
to have been a candidate when, with the election in prospect, he began holding 
himself out as a prospective candidate. It follows from the definition given In 
section 79 sub-section (1) clause (b) that a ‘candidate’ is not necessarily a 
person who has been or claims to have been duly nominated as a candidate in 
any particular election. The latter part of the definition includes a person to be 
a candidate if he purported to hold himself out as a prospective candidate from 
a particular time, with the election in prospect. Accordingly, if it is proved by 
evidence, oral, documentary or circumstantial, that the Respondent had been 
holding himself out as a prospective candidate prior to his filing of the nomina- 
tion paper on the 29th of January, 1957, he will be deemed to be a candidate 
within the meaning of section 79(1’) (b). Exhibits 12 series, are the nomination 
papers filed by the Respondent, including true copies of an extract from the list 
of voters prepared in 1950. These show that the true copies were obtained on 
9th of January. 1957, and on this it has been argued by the learned counsel fe- 
ttle Petitioner that it is from this time that the Respondent had decided to coll 
test the election from some constituency other than the one in which he wi 
entered as a voter. The fact that on the eve of the election in a Sultanpur con-" 
stituency he had an official programme for a visit tp that place on the 15th and 
16th of January, 1957, will prove, it is contended, that this so-called official 
programme was nothing but a camouflage and that the real purpose of the 
visit of the Respondent in Sultanpur district on those two dates was to carry 
on his election propaganda through the help of the Government Officers. It has 



925 


Sic. i 1 (ii)] THE GAZE’I I E OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1953/CHAITRA 28. 1881 


been urged that the programme (Exhibit 6) of the 15th and 10th of January, 
1957, was given an official shape for financial reasons, i.e., to get the expenses 
defrayed from the public exchequor and to receive the assistance of the numerous 
Government Officers. Barring these true copies of the extracts from the list 
of voters there is no documentary evidence to support the contention made on 
behalf of the Petitioner. I am afraid these extracts are practically of no impor- 
tance in judging whether the Respondent had been holding out as a prospective 
candidate on the two dates, namely, 15th and 16th of January, 1957. The other 
documentary evidence relied upon by the learned counsel for the Petitioner is 
based on the two items in the return of the election expenses (Exhibit 23) sub- 
mitted by the Respondent. An item of the 20th of January, 1957, shows that" 
a jeep car was purchased on that date for Rs. 5,000 and a nomination form was 
purchased from Sultanpur Treasury on the very same date. This date is several 
days later to the visit of the Respondent to Sultanpur and cannot prove the fact 
that prior to this date and especially on the 15lh and 16th of January, 1957, he, 
the Respondent, was holding himself out as a prospective candidate. These 
items may affect the evidence of the Respondent that there was no election work 
done by him prior to 25th or 26th of January, 1957, which were the dates of his 
visit to Sultanpur for the purpose of filing the nomination papers. This may 
also affect his evidence that he decided to contest for a seat in the Parliament 
only when he was informed by the Central Congress Parliamentary Board that 
they had selected him as a candidate from the Sultanpur-Musaflrkhana consti- 
tuency. But, the proximity of the dates is such which does not oust the possibi- 
lity of a slight error due to lapse of memory. It is possible that by 20th of 
January, 1957, the Respondent was in a position to anticipate the choice by the 
Central Congress Parliamentary Board and decided to stand for a seat in the 
Parliament from the Musafirkhana constituency. The fact that on the 20th of 
January, 1957, he purchased a nomination form from the Sultanpur treasury, 
and the facts resting on the two items of expenditure might belie a minor part 
of the evidence of the Respondent but they cannot, by any means, prove inde- 
pendently that the Respondent had been holding out as a prospective candidate 
on the 15th and i6tb of January, 1957, Reference has been made, on behalf of 
the Petitioner, of Exhibits 17 and 17/1, the Travelling Allowance Bills of the 
Respondent, to show thut he was at Lucknow on the 9th of January, 1957, and 
also of Exhibit 18, which is a news-item in the Leader, dated the 15th of January, 
1957, to show that a meeting had hoen convened at. Lucknow, but, I do not 
understand how these exhibits can be of any help to the Petitioner. 

The sheet-anchor regarding this contention of the Petitioner is the programme 
of the Respondent in Sultanpur on the 15th and 16th of January, 1957, which is. 
Appendix 1 (Exhibit 6). The programme shows in detail the arrival and 
departure of the Respondent at various places and also what he did there. On 
the 15th of January, 1957, he arrived at the P. W. D. Inspection House, ut Sultan- 
pur, from Lucknow, by car, at 10:30 a.m, and departed for Bharkhare at 1 p.m. 
There, he presided over a school function and also held a Workers’ Meeting. At 
3p.m., on the same day, he visited Kamtuganj in connection with the inauguration 
of Kamtaganj Panchayatghar and also attended a Workers’ Meeting. On the 
16th of January, 1957, he attended three Workers’ Meetings, at Ametni, Thaura, 
and at Gaurigani and departed for Lucknow at 5 p.M. by car. This programme 
was drawn up by Sri H. D. Pradhan, the then District Magistrate of Sultanpur, 
on the directions received Lorn the Respondent and copies of the same were 
forwarded to the Superintendent of Police and also to other Government Officers. 
A copy of the programme was also sent to the President, District Congress 
Committee, for making necessary arrangements at the places mentioned in the 
programme for Ihe Workers' Meetings. There can be no doubt that some of the 
Government Officers, such as, the District Planning Officer and some Tahsildars 
were asked to make arrangements but they had nothing to do with the Workers’ 
Meetings. The District Planning Officer was directed to make necessary arrange- 
ments for inauguration of the Kamtaganj Panchayat Ghar, for inspection of 
Gauriganj N.E.S. Block and for a public meeting. Similarly, the Tahsildars of 
Kadi Pur and Amethi were asked to make arrangements at Bharkhare and 

Shahgarh. For Workers’ Meetings only the President, District Congress Com- 

mittee was directed to make necessary arrangements at the places mentioned in 
the programme. It appears, therefore, that this programme had nothing to do 
with the matter of election, unless at these Workers’ Meetings the Respondent 
had talked about the coming election and had done something in furtherance of 
his election campaign. It is clear that the Government Officers had nothing to 
do with these Workers’ Meetings and Sri A.C, Ambuani (R,W, 14) the then 
Superintendent of Police of Sultanpur district has pledged his oath that these 

meetings had nothing to do with the Government officers and no Government 

Officers including, himself, and the District Magistrate, were present then. There 



926 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : APRIL 18, 195!)/ CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


is no reason why R. W. 14 should be disbelieved when there is total lack of 
evidence that the Government Officers were present in such meetings. The 
Respondent has stated in his evidence and is supported by some of his witnesses 
that these Workers’ Meetings, referred to in Appendix I, had nothing to do with 
the election work. He has said in ero ^-examination that these Workers’ Meet- 
ings were not assisted by the Government Officers and no party matters were 
discussed in any of such meetings. He has further stated that he did not ask 
in the Workers’ Meetings anything in connection with what the workers should 
do in the coming election and there was no reference to the coming election at 
■nil. Attempt has been made by and on behalf of the Respondent that the word 
‘workers’ included congress workers as well as village workers, who ventilated 
then grievances about matters concerning the villages and the local areas. In 
the written statement it has been said that the programme detailed in Appendix 
I was intended to serve as information to the public regarding the various 
engagements, both official and private, of the Respondent, and that it was only in 
connection with the official engagements that some duties were assigned to the 
officials concerned. It is true that the Respondent in his cross-examination 
stated that the workers at these Workers’ Meetings included those other than- 
congress workers, although, in the written statement, it was admitted that these 
were congress workers’ meetings, but, this difference has no particular signifi- 
cance in the determination of the issue in total absence of any evidence on 
behalf of the Petitioner that in these meetings something in relation to election 
was done. Statements made by the Respondent, which may or may not be true, 
or, which may be an improvement on his written-statement cannot fill up the 
gaps or overcome the weakness in the Petitioner’s case. A discrepant statement 
about the actual date on which he decided to fight the election and an attempt 
to explain awav a particular type of meeting do not necessarily lead to the 
inference that the Respondent was holding himself out as a prospective candi- 
date, on the 15th and 16th of January, 1957, in absence of proper and trustworthy 
evidence, 

There is no evidence on record to show that there was any overt act by the 
Respondent prior to 15th of January, 1957, which amounted to representing to 
the whale electorate or to a part of it that he was going to take part in the elec- 
tion. It was incumbent on the Petitioner to prove that some overt act had been 
done by or on behalf of the Respondent which was to the knowledge of the 
electorate in that constituency. By purchasing a copy of an electoral roll, the 
Respondent might have given an inclination of his contemplation to fight out an 
election in Uttar Pradesh but that was limited only to the persons from whom 
a copy of the electoral roll was taken. The electorate in the constituency of the 
Sultanpur district or of other Districts in Uttar Pradesh had little chance to 
know from this act that the Respondent had made up his blind to fight the 
election, either in Sultanpur or in any other District within this State. The 
obtaining of such a copy of electoral roll can never be held as a definite expres- 
sion of an intention to hold out as a candidate. 

Conscious of this hiatus in the Petitioner’s case, the learned counsel for the 
Petitioner has urged that these exhibits, by themselves, although not necessarily 
indicating Iho fact of the Respondent’s holding out as a prospective candidate, 
corroborate the statements of the Petitioner’s witnesses who have deposed that at 
several meetings, of which there is a reference in the programme, the Respon- 
dent exhorted the people collected there to vote for him and not to vote for the 
Petitioner for certain reasons. Theie can hardly be any doubt that if the Res- 
pondent, while addressing the meetings at several places, on the 15th and 16th 
of January, 1957, referred to the election and asked the people to vote for him 
and not to vote for the Petitioner, the Respondent was unequivocally holding 
himself out as a prospective candidate. I would lather go so far as to find that 
the Respondent will bo held to have been holding himself out as a candidate, if 
in these meetings he spoke about anv matter having a direct or indirect relation- 
ship with the coming election and he will be within the mischief of the law even 
if he had not referred to the Petitioner. 

It is, therefore, necessary to scan the evidence of the Petitioner, on the sub- 
ject, carefully. In paragraph 7 of the Petition two charges have been laid against 
the Respondent alleging that at his instance the Government Officers arranged 
his election meetings and he used their official influence to induce the electors to 
cast their votes in his favour. I may state at once that there is not an iota of 
evidence to show that any Government Officer used his official influence on any 
elector ahd asked a person or persons to cast votes in favour of the Respondent, 
Except Appendix I (Exhibit 6) , there is no evidence to show that the District 
Magistrate or his sub-ordinates arranged meetings for the Respondent. As 



},EC. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 19W/CHAITRA £8, 1881 


927 


already pointed out some officers of the Government did arrange certain meetings 
on those two dates and it is to be found, therefore, whether they were in con- 
nection with the election of the .Respondent. The particulars of these meetings 
are given in paragraph 7 A of the Petition. According to this paragraph there 
were three meetings on the 15th of January, 1957, at Sultanpur, Bharkhare and 
Kamtaganj. There is no evidence about any meeting at Sultanpur Inspection- 
Bungalow and the Counsel for the Petitioner hus given lip his stand with respect 
to any such meeting at this place. The meeting at Bharkhare was with regard 
to a function in the Higher Secondary School of that place and six Government 
Officers are said to have ai ranged the meeting and helped in it. One of the 
Officers was Sri H. D. Pradhan, District Magistrate, who, unfortunately, is dead. 
Names of five other officers have been given in the 4th column but none has been 
examined. With reference to the meeting at Kamtaganj names of six officers 
have been given including that of the District Magistrate and R. W, 14. Sri 
S. C. Ambuam, Superintendent of Police, R. W. 14, has been examined by the 
Respondent. No officer has been examined on behalf of the Petitioner. Sri 
Ambuam has definitely stated on oath that he neither arranged such a meeting 
or rendered any help in it. His duty was to accompany the Respondent wherever 
he went as he was the Minister at that relevant time. It is stated in paragraph 
7 A that five meetings were held on 16th January, 1957, but the learned counsel 
for the petitioner has not pressed his contention with regard to the public meet- 
ings at Thaura, Shahgarh and Babuganj. He has restricted the activities of the 
Respondent to a public meeting at Amethi and another public meeting at Gauri- 
ganj. None of the Government Officers, mentioned in column 4, has been, 
examined for the Petitioner, and Sri S. C. Ambuam (R. W. 14) has deposed to 
belie the Petitioner’s case with respect to the Amethi metting also. The oral 
evidence on behalf of the Petitioner in this connection rests ou the depositions of 
P. Ws 2, 5, 10, 11, 12, and 24. P. W. 2 has stated that the canvassing for the 
election was going on for about two monlhs prior to the election but, later on, he 
admitted that he started canvassing for the Petitioner 15 or 20 days prior to the 
date of polling. Theie is no material to show from which time he was working 
for the Petitioner in his election so that he could know that the election work 
of the Respondent was going on for two months prior to the election. This wit- 
ness is very much interested in the Petitioner as he was not only his worker 
but his Polling Agent as well. The next witness is P.W. 5, Ram Lai Pande, who 
has deposed about the meeting at Gauriganj, on the 16th of January, 1957. He 
has deposed about another meeting at Gauriganj 15 or 16 days prior to the 
election but to that I shall refer later on. According to this witness the Res- 
pondent asked the Sabhapatis and other members of the Gram Sabha to give 
their votes after duly considering the present relationship between India and 
Pakistan. The Respondent also addressed them saying that Haii Abdul Wahid 
was a begoted and a staunch Muslim, he traded in bones and that he was defeated 
in the last election. This witness, in the last election, was a canvasser for one 
Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh, an Independent candidate. He has admitted that 
he once belonged to the Congress party and in 1952, he became a member of the 
Praja Socialist Party. This witness cannot be said to bo a disinterested one. 
Moreover, it is hard to believe when, according to him there were about 1,200 
men present in that meeting, that the Respondent would dare broach the subject 
of election. He said at one place that there were workers of all the parties 
present in that meeting, although, they did not attend on party basis. It itf 
strange that no complaint about this speech was made to any authority any- where 
and it is difficult for me to believe that an experienced man like the Respondent 
in election matters, would expose himself in the way the witness has deposed. 
I am. therefore, not in a position to rely on this witness. The next witness is 
P. W. 10, Ram Khelawan Dube. According to this witness, the Respondent 
addressed the public stating that he had stood for the election and that they 
should vote after duly considering the question between Pakistan and Kashmir. 
This witness, too, cannot be said to be an independent one. He was a worker of 
the same Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh, the Independent candidate and was also 
his Polling Agent. He admitted in cross-examination that he did not want the 
Congress to win. The next witness is Sri Sarju Prasad Misra, P.W. 11. He, too, 
was working for one Shrimati Savilri Devi, an Independent candidate, and was 
her Polling Agent. He had also worked for sometime for the Petitioner and has 
admitted in cross-examination that he was against the principles of the Congress 
and his desire was to see that no body for the Congress succeeded in the election 
in his circle. It may be started here that at one time he belonged to the Congress 
organization but left it three or four years ago and started working for the Socia- 
list party. The other two witnesses are P.W. 12 and 24. P.W. 12 belongs, at 
present, to the Praja Socialist Party and P.W. 24 is the District Secretary of the 
same party, who admits that he is against the Congress. P.ws 11, 12 and 24, 
■depose about the meeting at Bharkhare School and the denial of such a speech 



928 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 19E9/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part It 


is given in the evidence of the Respondent's witnesses Nos, 11, 14, and 20 and 
in the evidence of the Respondent, himself as already stated, R..W. 14 is the 
Superintendent of Police and there is no reason for disbelieving him. 

About the meeting at Kamtagunj, there is evidence of P.W, 11, alone, and 
about the meeting at Amethi there is evidence of P.W. 24 only. P.Ws 5 ancl 10 
have deposed about the meeting of Gauriganj on the 10th of January, 1957. It 
would appear, therefore, that for the alleged speeches of the Respondent at 
Kamtagan] and Amethi there is the evidence of only one witness for each such 
meeting; there is evidence of only two witnesses for the meeting at Gauriganj 
and evidence of three witnesses for the meeting at Eharkhare school. Not a 
single independent witness has come forward to depose about these various 
speeches. No Government Officer has been examined, although, they were men- 
tioned, in the 4th column of paragraph 7A. One independent Government Offi- 
cer in the position of a Superintendent of Police, who, admittedly, attended two 
such meetings has given a lie to the Petitioner's version. It goes against all 
probabilities that the Respondent would expose himself in this manner as alleged, 
ill open public meetings, where more than a thousand persons had congregated. 
It is also strange that there will be no ventilation of such a matter m the press 
or anywhere either m the shape of a news item or in the character of complaint 
made before any authority by persons who were deeply interested to see that 
the Congress candidate did not succeed. It is stated in paragraphs 8 and 8A 
that the Respondent was given Guard of Honour by the police at various places 
which he visited on those two dates and the Government Officers were on 
attendance on him giving the impression that the Government was backing the 
Respondent. R W. 14 has stated that he and the District Magistrate followed 
the Respondeht wherever he went on those two days as it was their duty to do 
so, Their presence and the presence of other Government Officers, cannot, 
therefore, be made a subject-matter of criticism when they were only discharging 
their duties The Police was also present but R.W. 14 has deposed that no Guard 
of Honour was given to the Respondent on those two days. I believe him and 
hold that no Guard of Honour was presented by the Police to Respondent No. 1. 
It is again significant that on the 15th and 16th of January, 1959, the Respondent 
did not even know that the Petitioner was going to stand for elction and, there- 
fore, there was no occasion for him to refer to the Petitioner in the meetings at 
those places. 

My findings on the Issues No. 1, on the 2nd part of issue No. 2 and on issue 
No, 3 are, therefore, as follows: — 

The Respondent No, 1 did not enlist the support of the District Magistrate 
and the Government Officers for arranging election-meetings on the 
15th and 16th of January, 1957, as alleged in paragraph 7 and 7A 
of the Petition. The Government Officers did not use their official 
Influence to induce the electors to cast their votes in favour of the 
Respondent. No Government servant assisted the Respondent in 
arranging any meeting which had any connection with the election— 
compaign or propaganda and no Guard of Honour was given to the 
Respondent at the places which he visited according to the para- 
graphs 7A and 8A of the Petition. The Respondent never held 
himself out as a prospective candidate and the Petitioner has 
signally failed to prove that the Respondent committed the corrupt 
practice of obtaining or procuring the assistance of a person in the 
service of the Government for the furtherance of the prospects of 
his election. At one time, it was contended, on behalf of the Peti- 
tioner, that the Respondent will be equally guilty of having commit- 
ted a corrupt practice as described in section 123, sub-section (7) of 
the Representation of the People Act, even If the persons in the 
service of the Government rendered assistance to the Respondent 
without knowing that the assistance they were rendering was going 
to benefit him in his election. The proposition Is not unsound, 
stading by itself, but, in the present case, my findings are that the 
Respondent was not doing any work in connection with the election 
on the 15th and 16th of January, 1958, and, therefore, if any assist- 
ance was rendered to the Respondent In their official capacity, the 
obtaining or procuring of such assistance cannot be held to be a 
corrupt practice under section 123 sub-section (7). 

Accordingly, the entire issue No. 1 and the second part of issue No, 2 are 
answered against the Petitioner. Issue No. 3 is also answered against the Peti- 
tioner, with the observation that It fs not necessary whether the facts contained 1 



Sec. S (II)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/ CHA1TRA 28, 1881 


929 


In paragraphs 7 and 8 amount to a corrupt practice when these tacts have been 
found to be untrue and disproved. 


(1st part of Issue No. 2 and Issue No. 9: — 

I shah now turn to the first part of issue No. 2, and issue No. 9. There can 
hardly be any doubt that if the national flag was used On the car of the Respon- 
dent on the 15th and 10th of January. 1957 and he was then busy in his election 
the use will render him guilty of a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 
123 sub-section (3) of the Representation of the People Act. I have, however, 
given my decision that on these two dates the Respondent was not holding 
himself out as a candidate and was not doing any election work. Accordingly, 
even if the national nag was used on those two dates it cannot be said that the 
Respondent has committed a corrupt practice by using the same. 


Evidence has been led on behalf of the Petitioner to show that the national 
flag was used by the Respondent on his car, not only on the 15th and 16th of 
January, 1957 but also on other days when, admittedly, election work of all the 
parties was going on in full swing. P.W. 1 has stated that he had seen the use 
of the national flag by the Respondent at Araru-Baba-ka.Mela. This fact, how- 
ever is not mentioned in the Petition. I have already indicated that P.W. 1 is 
not a disinterested witness. He was opposing the congress, according to his 
own admission, for almost all the time, and was working for the Praja Socialist 
Party fiom the same constituency, i.e., the Musaflrkhana constituency, from 
which the Respondent had stood. According to this witness Musaflrkhana was 
the nearest police station from Araru Baba-ka-Mcla, but it is strange that no 
complaint about this use of the flag was made to any authority there. No com- 
plaint was despatched any where, although there was a Post and Telegraph 
Office at that place. P.W.2, admittedly, was a worker and a Polling Agent of 
the Petitioner. He is supposed to have seen the Respondent moving about in a 
car on the 8th of March, 1957, at Ramganj and there was a flag with a picture 
of the Ashoka Chakra placed in front of that car, which, at the rear had the sign 
of the fish, a symbol af the Uttar Pradesh Government. Nowhere in the Peti- 
tion it has been stated that the Respondent used the national flag or any national 
emblem or any Government symbol at Ramganj, There is no evidence that 
there was ventilation about this corrupt practice before any authority, although, 
P.W. 2 had ample opportunity to do so. P.W. 5 has stated about the use or a 
national flag by the Respondent on his car at Gauriganj. According to him the 
flag was on the front of the car and on the rear side-bumpers, there were symb- 
ols of the Ashoka Chakra. This was during the second meeting at Gauriganj. 
The witness was a canvasser for Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh, an Independent 
candidate, for the Vidhan Sabha. At first he belonged to the Congress party, 
but, later on, in 1952, he became a member of the Praia Socialist Party. It may 
be remembered that the Petitioner was also an Independent candidate but, 
although, a corrupt practice of this nature had been committed in his (witness’s) 
very presence, there was no complaint anywhere. He was also the Polling Agent 
and general agent for Sri Awadhesh Narain Singh. It is difficult for m e to put 
any reliance on this witness. PW, 9 speaks about the use of the national flag 
at Musaflrkhana, which is not in the particulars given in the Petition. He has 
said that when notices like Exhibit 2 were being distributed a tricolour flag 
with the print of Ashoka Chakra on it was flying on the car of the Respondent. 
This witness does not belong to the locality and had come to Musaflrkhana to 
purchase cloths about which there is no corroborative evidence. The evidence 
of this witness appears to be of a chance character. P.W. 10 has deposed about 
the use of the national flag by stating that he used to see the Respondent moving 
about m his car using a national flag with the picture of Ashoka Chakra on it 
Tins witness was also a worker, Polling Agent, and canvasser for Sri Awadhesh 
i ®' n 8n, an Independent candidate, and, according to his own statement 

he did not want the congress to win the ejection. It would appear therefore’ 
ttiat there is the evidence of P.Ws 5 and 10 only, regarding the use of the national 
nag at Gauriganj, which particular has been mentioned in the Petition and 
‘V™ me £ lt 'on in the Petition about the use of such a flag at Araru-Baba-ka 
tml ’l ath M ji sa r f ' r n kh£mQ at Ramganj, The use of the flag, if made on the 15th 
d pti \ Jriih o°f, 19 / 57, harmlcss - and the Respondent’s witnesses have 
o IWo n “ tlonal a t an T time when the election work was going 

2”- ,™ ere i3 i accordingly, no evidence, worth the name, to hold that the national 
committed b r. the , ftes P°n den t., It should be held, therefore, that he had not 

of ^ t Sr^nS t ort| C e t: Peopfe Act^ meanin * ° f SeCti ° n 123 - subsection <*> 



930 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAIFRA 28, 1881 [Pa*t II 

The first part of the issue no. 2 and issue no. 9, are answered in the negative 
against the Petitioner. 

Issue. Nos. 4 and 5: — 

The relevant paragraphs in the Petition ar e paragraph 10, 11(a), and 11(a) (i) 
and 11 (a) (ii) . Paragraph 10 is in general terms and it is alleged that the 
Respondent took recourse to fiaud, intentional misrepresentations, corrupt prac- 
tices and other electoral offences as detailed in the following paragraphs, namely 
paragraphs. 11(a), 11(a) (i), and 11(a) (ii). Paragraphs 11(a) relates that one 
Kun war Rananje Singh of Amethi had contested the election for a seat in the 
Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from the Amethi constituencey as an In- 
dependent candidate against a congress candidate in the General Elections of the 
year 1952 and had succeeded by huge majority of votes. This time, he was won 
over by the Respondent who gave promise to him that he would be nominated 
as a member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council if he did not stand in the 
election. It is alleged that on account of this offer and promise Kunwar Rananje 
Singh became an active supporter of the Respondent and held public meetings in 
support of Respondent’s election, in Kali Kan, Amethi, Gauriganj, and other 
places, made speeches in favour of the Respondent no. 1 and distributed amongst 
the electorate notices, a copy of which has been marked Exhibit 1. It has been 
brought out in evidence and it has not been denied that Kunwar Rananje Singh 
did not stand in the last election, although he was a popular figure in the loca- 
lity, that he was a supporter of the Respondent and had, afterwards, been nomi- 
nated to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council. The Respondent, on the other 
hand, has said, that he was not in a position to get the nomination of Kunwar 
Rananje Singh for a seat in the Legislative Council and that he had never held 
out any promise or offer to him as alleged, He is supported by R.W. 20 Accord- 
ing to the Respondent, he was not a member of the Parliament and had no 
influence to get any man nominated in the Legislative Council. He has admitted 
that he knows Kunwar Rananje Singh for a long time and that on the 16th of 
January, 1957, he called on him at Amethi, which was merely a courtesy call. 
He has further stated that there Was no talk about the coming election, but, 
during the election he had asked him to work for him, which he did and on two 
occasions accompanied him in his election tour. The question to bo decided is 
whether the Respondent held out a promise to Kunwar Rananje Singh on the 
16th of January, 1957, The only witness for the Petitioner, on this matter, is 
Sri Bindeshri Prasad Tewari (P-W.25). He says that he was present when the 
Respondent arrived at the house of Kunwar Rananje Singh on the 16th of 
January, 1957. He has rendered an explanation for his presence in as much as 
he, himself, had approached Kunwar Rananje Singh to fight the election on the 
ticket of the Praja Socialist Party and the later had told him that the Respondent 
was coming to him on the 16th of January 1957, and that he would give his 
answer after he had met him. It is difficult for me to believe that he would 
choose just that time, on the 16th of January, and not after that date to go to 
Kunwar Rananje Singh in order to obtain his decision. According to him the 
Respondent had a talk with Kunwar Rananje Singh in his presence and the 
Respondent told Kunwar Rananje Singh that he should not stand this time for 
the Assembly for which he would be made a member of the Legislative Council. 
This witness, admittedly, has hostile interest to that of a congress candidate as he 
is the District Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party at Sultanpur. He has ad- 
mitted that he once belonged to the Congress party but as his views became- 
different he left that organization. In the last election of 1957, it Is his further 
admission, that he wanted to see the Praja Socialist candidate to be victorious 
against the Congress wherever there was a contest between these two parties. 
He has stated in his cross-examination that he was not known to the Respondent 
when he met him at the house of Kunwar Rananje Singh but was introduced to 
him as the Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party after the talk. It is hardly to 
be believed that such Introduction would take place after the talk about his 
nomination in the Legislative Council was over. It is improbable that Kunwar 
Rananje Singh who knew him to be a Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party 
would enter upon a conversation relating a matter which do vividly amounted to 
a corrupt practice. It is equally improbable that the Respondent would *tart 
talking with Kunwar Rananje Singh on such a vital but confidential matter im 
the presence of an unknown person without even asking as to who the person 
was. P.W. 24 has stated in his cross-examination that he did not complain to 
any authority about this attempt to win over Kunwar Rananje Singh; nor did he 
get it printed in the news-paper that. Respondent was attempting to influence 
men by promising seats in the Council. If these facts were true, and when 
P.W. 24 was disappointed in not getting Kunwar Rananje Singh as a candidate 



Sr.r. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITR.A 28, 1881 


931 


ior his party, he would have, in the ordinary course, at once ventilated this fact 
of gross corrupt practice in the news-papers, or put the matter before some 
authority in the shape of a complaint. Nothing of that kind was done, and I am 
afraid, 1 am not in a position to accept the uncorroborated testimony of only one 
witness which is opposed to the natural reaction of an individual. I hold, ac- 
cordingly, that there was no promise or offer advanced to Kunwar Rananje Singh 
bv the Respondent as alleged in the Petition, 


In paragianh 11(a) it has been stated that Kunwar Rananje Singh held pub- 
lic meetings in support of the Respondent at many places including Kalikan. 
Amethi and Gauriganj. It is not stated in paragraph 11(a) that Kunwar 
Rananje Singh gave any speeches at these public meetings. It is merely alleged 
in this paragraph that the respondent attended most of these meetings arranged- 
by Kanwar Rananje Singh and there he (Respondent) gave out threats that a 
Hindu voting for the Petitioner would render himself a subject of divine dis- 
pleasure or spiritual censure as he was carrying on the trade in animal bones, 
including m particular bones of cows, and, would leave no stone unturned to 
get cow-slaughtcr started again. In sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph 11 (a) 
where particulars have been given with respect to the meeting at Amethi held 
on 16th January, 1957, at 11a.m., it has been stated that Kunwar Rananje Singh 
was one of the four who bad addressed that meeting. It is not mentioned in 
this sub-paragraph which supply the particulars of the corrupt practice men- 
tioned in paragraph 11 (a) that Kunwar Rananje Singh addressed the meetings 
at Kali Kaln, Gauri Ganj and other places. There is only one witness, namely, 
P. W. 18, who has spoken about Kunwar Rananje Singh canvassing at Kalikan 
stating that the Petitioner was a Pakistani agent, a trader in bones and that cow- 
slaughter would start again if he succeeded. This witness Is a lawyer and in the 
1962 election had worked for Kunwar Rananje Singh. On hearing the canvassing 
and the speech of Kunwar Rananje Singh he concluded that it was against the 
law and amounted to a corrupt practice, but he neither protested then and there 
nor submitted any complaint anywhere. He said that he expressed his grievan- 
ces in some of the news-papers, but, unfortunately, no such newspaper has been 
proved and the witness has said that he is not in a position to produce that news- 
paper in which he disclosed his grievances. This witness cannot be said to be 
an independent one as he did not want the congress to win and was conscious 1 
of the fact that his own election was being affected by the speech and canvassing 
of Kunwar Rananje Singh, who was working for the Congress party. I refuse, 
therefore, to believe this witness that he saw Kunwar Rananje Singh either 
canvassing or speaking in a meeting at Kali Kan, as alleged. P. W. 24, Sri 
Bindeshrl Prasad Tewari, the District Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party at 
Sultanpur, had attended the meeting at Amethi, which was addressed by the 
Respondent and others, but he does not say if Kunwar Rananje Singh stated in 
"this meeting at Amethi that the Petitioner was a trader in bones, that cow-claugh- 
ter would start again if he succeeded and that a Hindu would render himself an 
object of divine displeasure and spiritual censure by voting in his favour. It 
is the petitioner’s case that the meetings on the 16th and 16th of January, 1957, 
were attended by a large number of Government Officers and other persons re- 
presenting all parties and it stands against all probabilities that in such a meeting 
Kunwar Rananje Singh would raise a communal alarm, give out threats to the 
Hindu section of the public and would also refer to other matters mentioned in 
paragraph 11 (a). My finding, accordingly, is that Kunwar Rananje Sing)) 

did not address any meeting in the manner alleged in paragraph 11(a) and 
11(a) (i). 


It is also alleged in paragrpah 11(a) and 11(a) (ii) that Kunwar Rananje 
Singh published and distributed notices like Exhibit 1 among the electorate. 
The exhibit, as already stated, Is Appendix I and the Respondent has said that 
he came to know about this notice only when he received a copy of the Petition 
along with the copies of the appendices. His witnesses have also denied the 
printing, the publication or the distribution of notices like Exhibit 1, anywhere, 
within the constituency. P. W, 7, Narain Goswami, has deposed that his Press 
at Lucknow printed Exhibit 1 in the month of February, 1957, at the instance of 
Kunwar Rananje Singh. He has said that he printed one thousand or two 
thousand copies of Exhibit 1 and charged about Rs. 7 or 8, for the same, It is 
difficult to believe this witness that notices like Exhibit 1 were printed at the 
instance of the Kunwar, or on behalf of the Respondent. He has said that 
there is an order book in the Press and the order for printing of this notice was 
entered in a register. Unfortunately, neither the order book nor the register 
has been produced In this case. The witness admits that Kanwar Rananje 
Singh did not personally come to the Press to place the order hut his Secretary 



932 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 38, 1881 [Part II 


came and the Secretary was probably one Ram Kishore Shastri. On further 
cross-examination the witness says that he maintains a Cash book in which all 
payments are entered but that cash book has not been produced to show that any 
payment was made by Kunwar Rananje Singh or by his Private Secretary. 
He again admits that the counterfoil lor the receipt of Exhibit 1 still exists m 
the Press, but that, too, has not been produced. The Petitioner, therefore, to my 
mind, has signally failed to prove the printing of Exhibit 1 either by or on behalf 
of Kanwar Rananje Singh. 

On behalf of the Petitioner, P. W 1 Paras Nath Dwlvedi, P. W. 2 Zamin 
All Khan, P. W, 5, Sri Ram Pal Pande P, W. 17, Sri Jagat Narain, and P. W. 18, 
Sri Vijai Pal Pande, have been examined to prove the distribution of notices 
like Exhibit 1 at various places. P.W. 1 has stated about the distribution of 
Exhibit 1 at Araru-Baba-ka-Mela which does not iind any mention in the petition. 
P. Ws. 2, 5, and 17 have deposed about its distribution at Gauriganj and P. W, 18 
has stated about its distribution at Amethi. None of these witnesses are residents 
of these places. I have already Indicated how P. Ws. 1, 2. and 5 cannot be termed 
as independent witnesses i nthis case. Aceordmg to P.W. 2 Kumvar Kananje 
Singh was distributing notices like Exhibit 1 in Gauriganj in presence of agents 
and workers of other candidates. This is hard to believe in absence of any 
corroboration, He has stated in his cross-examination that when he read 
Exhibit 1 at the spot he realized that its distribution was unlawful and unfair 
and that the Petitioner would be harmed by this distribution. It is strange, 
however, that he would not object immediately cither to the Respondent or to 
Kunwar Runanje Singh, nor, bring the matter to the notice of the authorities. 
He informed the Petitioner on the next day about the distribution of such notices 
but it is equally strange that the later did not produce him either before the 
District Magistrate or before the Election Officer. He, himself, did not think it 
necessary to go and report to the District Magistrate and to the Election Officer. 
P, W. 5 who is now a member of the Praja Socialist Party and at that time was 
working for an Independant candidaie has deposed about the distribution of 
Exhibit 1 by Kunwar Rananje Singh in the second meeting at Gauriganj while 
Respondent was sitting in his car, I am not prepared to believe a witness who 
is not wholly disinterested without corroboration. The next witness is P. W. 17 
and his evidence appears to be Jiat of a chance character, He had gone to the 
village of his maternal grand- father and from that place went to Gauriganj, out 
of curiously, as other people were proceeding there. P. W. 18 is the lawyer about 
whose evidence I have discussed already. It is extremely difficult to rely upon 
such a witness. On the other hand, there is the evidence of the Respondent, 
himself, who has said that he saw this notice for the first time when he received 
a copy of the Petition, that he did not authorize Kunwar Rananje Singh to get 
such notices printed, published or distributed and that such notices were never 
printed, published or distributed, with his consent or within his knowledge. He 
is supported by R. W. 15, Sri Ganga Prasad Gupta, a Medical Practitioner who 
has his house at Gauriganj Bazar. He does not belong to any party and has said 
that he remains at his dispensary from 8 a.m, to 12 noon and again from 4 p.m. 
to 5 p.M. His shop and his house are in the same building. He has said that 
there was no distribution of notices like Exhibit 1 by Kunwar Rananje Singh 
in his presence and he is supported by R. W. 18, Sri Ram Kumar, who is a Sabha- 
pati of village Katra Lalganj, Gauriganj Bazar is held on the lands between 
two villages, one is Madho Pur and the other Katra Lalganj, where this witness 
resides. He has said that in the first week of February, 1957, there was a con- 
gress meeting at Gauriganj Bazar which was addressed by the Respondent, but, 
in that meeting Kunwar Rananje Singh was not present. He was also not 
present in the Gauriganj meeting held on the 16th of January, 1957. He has also 
averred that no Parcha was distributed in any of the two meetings. It was 
suggested to him that he had come to depose at the instance of the Block 
Development Officer which has not been substantiated. The other two witnesses, 
on this point, are Sri Guru Prasad Smgh (R. W. 20) and Sri Ram Saran Dass 
(R. W. 23). R. W. 23 is the owner of the land on which the Bazar known as 
Araru-baba-ke-Mela takes place, He knows Kanwar Rananje Singh and has 
deposed that he (Kunwar Rananje Singh did not come to the Bazar area for 
the last two or three years. He discredits the evidence of P. W. 1 about the dis- 
tribution of this notice (Exhibit 1) at Araru-baba-ka Mela, and he appears to 
me to be an independent witness. The only suggestion to him was 
that ho had come to depose at the instance of Kunwar Rananje Singh 
and Rama Kant and on account of an enmity with Sri Bajpai (P. W. 25), There 
is nothing to show how he could be Influenced by Kunwar Rananje 
Singh and Sri Rama Kant, and about Sri Bajpai he has volunteered that at 
present he has friendship with him, I And, therefore, that the Petitioner has not 
been able to prov ethe distribution of Exhibit 1 by Kunwar Rananje Singh at 



Src. 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 18, J959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 


93 ?' 


Araru-baba-ka-Mela, at Gauriganj, or, at Amethi. In view of this finding, 
whether Exhibit 1 was distributed in the presence of the Respondent or was 
distributed with his consent docs not arise at all. 

I shall now advert to the question whether notices like exhibit 2 were dis- 
tributed by one Rudra Pal Misra, said to bo a congress worker, as mentioned 
in paragraph 11(a) and in paragraph 11(a) (ii). No particular Is given in para- 
graph 11 (a') about the distribution of this exhibit. It is merely stated that a 
notice like Exhibit 2 was printed, published and distributed amongst the electorate 
by Shri Rudra Pal Misra. In sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph 11(a) where 
it is supposed, the particulars about this subject would be given, it has only been 
stated as follows, “Similarly the Respondent No. 1 know the untruthfulness and 
falsehood of the contents of the notice printed, published and distributed in the 
constituency by Shri Rudra Pal Misra. (A Copy of the same is attached to the 
Petition as' Appendix li). It was also distributed in the knowledge and In the 
presence of the Respondent No. 1 throughout the constituency”. It would appear, 
therefore, that particulars about this corrupt practice have not been supplied 
by the Petitioner, although, full opportunity was given to Inm. No place, time 
or date of the distribution by Shri Rudra Pal Misra of Exhihit 2 has been men- 
tioned In any of the paragraphs of the Petition. It was the duly of the Petitioner 
to give these particulars to enable the Respondent for meeting these allegations. 
On the face of it the story of distribution of this Exhibit by Rudra Pal Misra should 
at once be rejected. However, I shall discuss the evidence led by the parties on 
this matter to find out whether in spite of absence of the particulars in the 
Petition the evidence led by the Petitioner can be accepted. The Petitioner 
has examined Dash rath Prasad Pathak, P.W. 15, to prove that this notice was 
printed in the ‘Janmat’ Press. This witness produced a mutilated manuscript, 
which has been marked Exhibit 8 and has deposed that this is the original of 
Exhibit 2 which had been published in his Press. He is however, unable to 
say who gave this Exhibit 8 to the Press for the purpose of publication. He 
also could not say in whose hand-writing it was. He did not compose Exhibit 
8 and could not say that it was received in the Press. One Shn Kedar Singh 
Is the Manager of this Press, but he has not. been examined, although, it was 
he who could have thrown some light on Exhihit 2. P.W. 25 is Sri Viddya Dbar 
Bajpai who has deposed that Exhibit 8 is in the hand-writing of Shri Rudra Pal 
Misra. It appears from his cross-examination that he is not at all an independent 
witness. At one time ho belonged to the Congress and so did his wife, Shrimati 
Savitri Devi. They were not given congress tickets - in the last election and 
he admits that if his wife had been given a congress ticket he would not have left 
the congress organization. He had at first stood as a candidate against the Res- 
pondent but withdrew as he thought that he had no chance. He had intended 
to stand from the same constituency, i.e., the Musaflrkhana constituency against 
the Respondent. His wife had been fighting the election against Shrilfiati 
Prabhawati Devi, who was a congress candidate. The husband of this Shrimati 
Prabhawati Devi was a strong supporter of the Respondent in the last election. 
Shrimati Savitri Devi, the wife of the witness, could not succeed and brought 
an election case against Shrimati Prabhawati Devi. In this case the Respondent 
appeared as a witness against Shrimati Savitri Devi. I am not prepared, there- 
fore, to accept the sole testimony of this witness as a proof of the fact that Exhi- 
bit 8 was in the hand-writing of Sri Rudra Pal Misra R. W. 26 the Respondent 
has staled that he came to know about Exhibit 2 for the first time when he 
received a copy of the petition with the appendices. He never authorized any 
body to get notice like Exhibit 2, printed, published or distributed and that 
Shri Rudra Pal Misra was not working for him in the election. He has also 
said that if Sri Rudra Pal Misra had printed such a notice that was without 
his consent or knowledge. At the same time he has deposed that Sri Viddya 
Dhar Bajpai, in the last election, considered him as his enemy number one. In 
cross-examination, he has said, that Sri Rudra Pal Misra was a congress-man but 
there was a doubt about his loyality as be was a man of Sri Ganpat Sahai. who hpd 
been refused a congress ticket. He has, however, admitted that Rudra Pal Misra 
might have been his Polling Agent and had neither been suspended nor expelled 
from the congress during the election days Sri Riidra Pal Misra has not' been 
examined, but, I cannot draw an inference against the Respondent on account 
of bis non-examination the evidence about the authenticity of Exhibit 8 is so 
scanty and Interested 

The distribution of Exhibit 2 has been deposed to by P.Ws, 1, 2. 5, 9, 10 12, 
and 21. I have already given my reasons for not believing the evidence of almost 
all these witnesses. Even P.W. 12 Is at present a member of the Praja Socialist 
Party and there Is no corroboration of his statement. According to him he 
received a notice like Exhibit 2 at the Pakhaull meeting, but that notice could 



934 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 18, 1959/CHA1IRA 98, 1881 [Part II 


not be produced in the court as that is said to have been misplaced somewhere. 
Similarly, P,W, 21 also belongs to the Socialist Party. Although, after reading 
Exhibit 2 his impression was very bad, he did not speak anything to Sri Rudra 
Pal. According to him he had a talk with Sri Rudra Pal afterwards and Rudra 
Pal is said to have told him that ‘such notices like Exhibit 2 he got printed and 
circulated at the instance of Dr. Keskar. At that time he was canvassing for 
one Ram Bahadur, who was a candidate for the Praia Socialist Party. He neither 
protested to Sri Rudra Pal nor complained about the distribution of this notice 
at any police station. He did not send a copy of the notice to the Petitioner and 
did not make any report about it to h;m at any time. I am, therefore, no(t willing 
to place any reliance either on this witness or the other witnesses who have 
come forward to depose about the distribution of Exhibit 2, Issues 4 and 5 are, 
accordingly, answered against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 6 

This issue relates to the allegations made in paragraph 11(b) of the Petition. 
It is said that the Private Secretary to Kunwar Rananjaya Singh. Sri Ram Kishore 
Shastri, sent in a local newspaper, called the 'Sanatan’, a notice (Exhibit 7). This 
notice appeared as a news-item in the Bharat, and has been marked Exhibit 3-1. 
It is stated in this notice that the Petitioner was spending money lavishly and 
was purchasing votes. It also stated about an alleged disturbance of a speech 
while being delivered by Kunwar Rananjaya Singh by Sri Vijai Pal Pande, said 
to have been a supporter of the Petitioner, P.W. 6, Sri L. M. Tripathi, has proved 
Exhibit 3-1 and P.W. 14, Sri Raja Rain, has proved Exhibit 7, and also the envelope 
in which the Exhibit 7 was enclosed. In his examination-in-chief, tills witness 
has stated that Exhibit 7 had been sent by Sri Ram Kishore Shastri but in cross- 
examination he had to admit that he was not in a position to say who the writer 
of Exhibit 7 was and that the letter was not published by his Press. He was a 
witness for Shrimati Savitri Devi in the election case against Shrimati Prabhawati 
Devi and it was urged, on behalf of the Respondent, that the learned Tribunal 
in that case passed some adverse remarks against him and also regarding the 
books produced. That is all the evidence so far as this issue is concerned and 
I hold that the Petitioner has not been able to prove any corrupt practice as alleged 
in paragraph 11(b) of the Petition. The issue is decided against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 7 

This issue relates to the charges made in paragraph 11(c) of the Petition. This 
issue overlaps issue no, 5 about which I have already given my findings. It is 
stated in the first part of paragraph 11(c) that the Respondent, Kunwar Rananjaya 
Singh, and other supporters and canvassers stated in open meetings that the 
Petitioner was a Pakistani Agent and if he Was elected to the House of the People 
he would vote in favour of Kashmir’s accession to Pakistan, and. therefore, Hindus 
should not cast their votes for him but should cast their votes for the Respondent. 
This allegation is made by way of adding to the charges made this connection In 
sub-paragraph 11 (a) (i). The names of those workers who had addressed those 
public meetings have been given in the last part of paragraph 11(c), where It is 
stated that on 15th January 1957 at the P.W.D. Inspection bungalow. Sultanpur, 
at Bharkhare Higher Secondary School and at Kamta Ganj, the Respondent. 
Lachmi Narain, Gur Din Pande, Ram Nath Singh and Har Narain Singh addressed 
the public meetings mentioning the fact that the Petitioner would vote in favour 
of Kashmir’s accession to Pakistan. The Petitioner has examined P.W. 11, whose 
evidence I have already discussed. The Petitioner has also proved Exhibit 4-1 
and 5-1 which are the news-items In the ‘Bharat’ dated the 14th of February, 1957 
and 28th of February, 1957 to show that on account of these utterances about 
Kashmir’s accession to Pakistan Sri Vijai Pal Pande, publicly gave out that he waa 
nett associating anw more with the Petitioner in the election. I have already 
given my reasons for disbelieving the witnesses for the Petitioner on the charges 
that the Respondent and his workers had made election speeches on the 15th and 
16t.h of January, 1957, and there is no necessity to repeat them here. In myi 
opinion, there is noi substance tn this charge and I hold that the allegations made 
In paragraph 11(c) have not been proved. This issue, too. Is answered against 
the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 8 

This issue is based upon the charges made in paragraph 11 (d) and sub- 
paragraph 11(d) (i) of the Petition. It is alleged that systematic appeals had 
been made for the Respondent to refrain from voting for the Petitioner on the 
grounds of caste and community. It is stated that one Sri Jagga Dass (R.W. 22), 



Sic. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/ CIIAlTRA 28, 1881 935- 


a Harljan, was a supporter ot the Respondent no. 1 and he appealed to the Harijan. 
voters of that constituency to vote and work for the Respondent as Harijans were 
Hindus and they should never like to support the Petitioner, who was a Muslim. 
It is also stated in sub-paragraph 11(d)(1) that the Respondent addressed meetings 
in which he asked the voters to refrain from voting for the Petitioner on the 
grounds of caste and community. These meetings were the very same ones about 
which particulars have been given in sub-paragraph 11(a)(1). So far as the 
charges referred to in this sub-paragraph is concerned I have already held the 
same to be untrue. There is no evidence about any meeting at. Lambhua Bazar 
on 8th of February, 1957, and there is also no evidence that Sri Jagga Dass 
(R.W. 22) addressed any of the meetings mentioned in sub-paragraph 11(a)(1). 
The only witness about this charge is Sri Ram Dhan (P.W. 13), who has stated 
that Jagga Dass and others were canvassing for the Respondent staling that, if 
the Harijans cast their votes for the Respondent it would be to their benefit that 
the Petitioner was a Haddiwala Musalman and no one should cast his vote for 
him. I am unable to accept the uncorroborated statement of only one witness in 
support of the charge that Sri Jagga Dass was appealing to the Harljan voters 
on communal lines. Sri Jagga Dass has been examined by the Respondent and 
be has categorically denied the allegations made by the Petitioner concerning 
him. It is true that he Is an employee under the District Board, which at the 
time of the election was under the Presidentship of Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma 
(R.W. 1), the Election Director of the Congress organization, but, it has been 
brought out on the record that since about one year or so Deo Kali Din Sharma 
is no longer in that position of the first man in power in that Board but is under 
the District Magistrate of the Sultanpur district. It is difficult for me to believe, 
therefore, that R.W. 22 was speaking a deliberate lie at the Instance of Sri Deo 
Kali Din Sharma. In any case, the evidence relating to this charge is totally 
insufficient and I am inclined to believe R.W. 22 that he did not canvass for the 
Resppndent on caste and communal lines. I hold, accordingly, that the allegations 
contained in paragraph 11(d) and 11(d)(1) are not correct and no corrupt practice 
had been committed for the Respondent by making any systematic appeal on the 
grounds of caste and community. This issue is, accordingly, decided against the 
Petitioner. 

Issue No. 9: — 

This issue rests upon the allegations made in paragraph 11(e) and sub-para- 
graph 11(e) (i). The allegations based upon this issue has already been discussed 
and disposed of with that of issue no. 2 as they practically overlap each other. 
It is with respect to the use of the national flag, during tho period between 15th 
of January, 1967 to 16th of January, 1957, 26th of January. 1957 to 6th of February 
1957 and 15th of February, 1957 to 9th March 1957. The witnesses are the same 
namely, P.Ws. 2, 5, 9, 10, 11, and 12, none of whom can be termed as disinterested 
or independent witnesses I repeat here that the Petitioner has not been able to 
prove the uso of the national flag on any of the two periods commencing from 
26th of January, 1957 and if that flag had been used on the 15th and 16th of 
January, 1957, that was not a corrupt practice, because, as stated by the Respondent 
in his written statement, the election process had not started and on those two 
dates the Respondent had been visiting the Sultanpur area in hi? official capacity, 
alone. My finding on this issue is, therefore, that the Respondent is not guilty 
of any corrupt prartice by using the national flag on the 15th and 10th of January, 
1957 and that no corrupt practice, by using the national flag, was committed by 
him during the election days. The issue has already been answered in the 
negative. 

Iss we No. 10:— | j 1 ~ ~ td 

This issue is based upon the allegations made in paragraph 11(f) of the 
Petition. This issue also overlaps issue no. 5. It refers to the publication of 
the notices, Exhibits 1 and 2 and states that the Respondent no. 1 and his agents 
and workers knew the facts contained in those Exhibits to be false and, therefore, 
the Respondent must be held guilty of having committed the corrupt practice 
within the meaning of section 123, sub-section (4) of the Representation of the 
People Act. As my findings are already there with respect to the same facts 
based on a different charge, the same should apply with respect to this charge 
as well, and accordingly, I hold that the Respondent has not committed any 
corrupt practice under section 123, sub-section (4) of the Representation of People 
Act.. The issue is accordingly answered in the negative. 

Issue No. 11: — 

This issue depends upon the facts mentioned in paragraph 11(g) and sub- 
paragraph 11(g)(1) of the Petition. It is stated in paragraph 11(g) that the 
Respondent, himself, and through his workers, supporters and agents namely Sri 



936 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18. I959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part XI 


Deo Kali Din Sharma, Sri Ram Jiawan Dube, Sri Gur Prasad Singh, Sri Rama 
Kant Singh, and others, engaged a number of ekkas and rickshaws to convey the 
voters to the various polling stations, and thereby committed, the corrupt practice 
as defined in section 123, sub-section (5) of the Representation of the People Act. 
In sub-paragraph 11(g)(1) it is alleged that the ekkas and rickshaws referred 
to in paragraph 11(g) were hired and procured to convey the voters to the Polling 
Stations at Lambhua and Ramganj, on the 9th of March, 1957, by the Respondent 
and his workers and supporters and that the hiring had taken place on the 8th 
of March, 1957, through Sri Banke Beharl, a worker of the Respondent with his 
consent. It is significant that in these two paragraphs no name of any Ekkawala 
or Rickshaw-puller has been given and the name of any voter said to have been 
carried to the Polling Station has been deliberately omitted, In spite of sufficient 
opportunity given to the Petitioner to give particulars of his general charges 
There is no evidence that Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, Sri Ram Jiawan Dube, Sri 
Gur Prasad Singh and Sri Rama Kant, engaged any Ekka or Rickshaw to convey 
the voters to any Polling Station. The evidence on this charge rests upon the 
depositions of P.Ws. 2, 3, and 4. All these depositions relate to the conveying of 
voters to the Polling Station at Ramganj only and not at Lambhua. According 
to P.W. 3, Sri Nageshar, he was called to the congress office of Ramganj Bazar 
one day before the polling i.e,, on the 8th of March, 1957 and there was talk 
between one Sri Banke Behari and the Respondent about bringing the old men 
and women voters to the polling station by means of conveyances. Then som# 
rickshaw-pullers and ekkawalas were called in presence of the Respondent and 
on the next day, P.W. 3 who was working for the Congress at that time, brought 
eight voters to Ramganj Polling Station from village Khana Pur on two ekkas 
and five or seven voters from village Bhikapur, similarly on two ekkas, If or 
which he was paid by Banke Behari. Rs. 3/-, as remuneration for the work done 
by him on the Polling day. P.W. 4, Sri Ram Sukh, Is a rickshaw-puller. He, too, 
has deposed about his engagement by Banke Behari in presence of the Respondent 
on the 8th of March, 1957 and about his bringing old men and 
women from Ramganj and Durgapur to the Congress Office at Ramganj. 
They arc supported by P.W. 2. Sri Zamin Ali Khan, the admitted 

worker of the Petitioner who has said that he was the polling agent of the 
Petitioner at Ramganj Polling Station and on the polling day he saw many voters 
being taken there on rickshaws and ekkas carrying the congress flags. Banke 
Behari and Bhagauti Din Singh were working for the Congress and there were 
six or seven such rickshaws and six or seven such ekkas. He took down the 
names of two rickshaw-puller, namely Ram Sukh (P.W. 4) and Ganpat (not 
examined). According to him about 100 or 125 such voters were brought on 
these rickshaws and ekkas. This story about bringing old and feeble voters of 
both the sexes to Ramganj Polling Station or to Ramganj Congress Office appears 
to me wholly absurd. According to P.W. 2 the worker and polling agent of the 
Petitioner, who is said to have been working at that particular polling station 
of Ramganj on that day, about 14 vehicles were engaged in bringing about ]00 
or 125 voters, but it is a matter of surprise that nothing was done to prevent 
such voters being brought on the vehicles. According to P.W. 4 he was carrying 
the voters from 7 a.m. and finished his work at 5 p.m. P.W. 2 was conscious 
of the fact that the use of vehicles to bring voters was a corrupt practice and 
he verbally complained to the Polling Officer who merely told him that he was 
going to ask the party not to bring voters on vehicles. According to this witness 
the Polling Officer did not ask the Congress party to refrain from bringing voters 
on vehicles, yet, no written complaint was filed, either before the Polling Officer 
or before any superior authority. Again, this very witness, has admitted that 
Shrimati Savitrl Devi, who was fighting against the Congress and her husband 
Sri Vidya Dhar Bajpai (P.W. 25) were present at that polling station throughout 
the polling, yet, they were not informed of this glorlng corrupt practice. It is 
extremely improbable that in presence of persons who were dead against the 
Congress and were fighting the election against that party, Banke Behari or 
any other worker for the Respondent would dare bring voters on rickshaws and 
ekkas throughout the day when polling was going on. P.W. 4 has also admitted 
that there was a Police Station at Ramganj and that there were 10 or 12 police 
constables present, at the Polling Station, It is surprising that no complaint was 
made to any police constable or to any police officer. This very witness has 
also stated that no person prevented him from bringing the voters to the polling 
station which Is improbable, when rival parties and their candidates were all 
present at and near about the polling station. Accordingly. I reject the story 
about bringing voters on rickshaws and ekkas as being utterly untrue. 

The Respondent (R.W. 26) has denied consenting to a hiring of ekkas or 
rickshaws and so have R.W, 1, Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma and Sri Bhagauti Din 
(RW 12) who were working in this connection, according to P.W. 3, R.W. 9, 
Sri Gaya Prasad and R.W. 10, Sri Jagat Pal Singh, alias Babban Singh have 



Sec. 3 <ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/ CHAU RA 28, 1881 


937 


deposed that the Respondent did not come to the Congress Election Office one day 
prior to te date of polling. These two witnesses were polling agents of the 
Respondent, and therefore, can be descriBsti as being interested in him. There 
is, however, the evidence of R.W. 2, Sri Bukhare and R.W. 25, Sri Pudai, in sup- 
port of the Respondent’s denial that no vehicle was engaged for bringing voters 
to the polling, station. R.W. 2 is an Ekka-driver and he says that on the polling 
day he did not carry any villager to the polling station. He has given reasons 
for not plying the vehicle on that day as he says, the courts were closed and as 
he had to vote he thought it best not to take out his vehicle. R.W. 25 is another 
ekka driver. He has denied having gone to Ramganj one day before the date 
of polling to be engaged by Banke Behari as alleged by P.W. 3 and has said that 
he and Bukhare did not ply their ekkas on the dates of polling and did not bring 
any voter to the polling station. It appears this witness had gone to the polling 
station with his family to east votes and had remained at the polling station for 
about 3 or 3-30 p.M. It has been suggested to them that they had come to depose 
falsely at the instance of Banke Behari, Gaya Prasad, Bhagauti Din, and others, 
but I am inclined to believe them when I am convinced that the story told by 
P.Ws. 2, 3, and 4 was extremely improbable. I hold, accordingly, that the Res- 
pondent did not commit any corrupt practice by hiring any ekka or rickshaw 
for cariying voters to any polling station. This issue is answered in the negative 
against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 12: — 

The learned counsel for the Petitioner has not pressed this issue. There is 
virtually no evidence in support of the allegations mentioned in paragraph (h) 
of the Petition, which is the foundation for this issue. The issue is accordingly 
answered against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 13: — 

This issue, too, is answered against the Petitioner as it has been given up by 
the learned counsel for the Petitioner and as there is nc evidence in connection 
with the charge made in paragraph ll(i) and sub-paragraph 11(0 < 1 ) . 

Issue No. 14: — 

This issue rests on the charges made in sub-paragraph (i to vii) of paragraph 
11 (j‘). The charges made in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (vi) have 
been given up by the learned counsel for the Petitioner and have not been 
pressed due to paucity of evidence. The issue concerning this sub-paragraph is, 
therefore, answered against the Petitioner. The only sub-paragraphs pressed 
under this issue are numbers iv and vii. I shall deal with them one by one. 
The charge under sub-paragraph (ii) is stated in this, way that an election meeting 
was convened at Pakhrauli in which Respondent No. 1 told the audience that it 
was he who was responsible for the restoration of the dismantled Lucknow- 
Jaunpur Tailway line and that he had also arranged to get Pakhrauli made a 
Flag Station, that he would let the scheme materialized only if the voters of 
Pakhrauli and the surrounding villages voted for him otherwise, he would see 
that the scheme was finally dropped. The evidence about this Pakhrauli meeting 
depends on the statements made by P.Ws. 11, 12 and 23. None of these witnesses 
speak, about the threat said to have been advanced by the Respondent that if 
the villagers of Pakhrauli and the neighbouring villages did not vote for him 
he would see that the scheme was dropped altogether. According to these three 
witnesses the Respondent simply made a promise to have a railway station cons- 
tructed at Pakhrauli if the public of the locality voted for him and in this con- 
nection he referred to his previous achievement when the Lucknow-Jaunpur 
railway lines were restored, sometimes, in 1953 or 1954. Now, it will not amount 
to a corrupt practice if Respondent had made only a promise of public action 
and, accordingly, I have to find out whether any threat, open or veiled was given 
out by the Respondent in this meeting at Pakhrauli. I have already discussed 
the evidence of these witnesses. P.W. 11 was a worker of Shrimati Savitri Devi 
who had stood against the Congress and was also her polling agent. He realized 
the speech to be an objectionable one and yet he did not protest to the Respondent 
or to the other speakers. He is a chance witness as he had no occasion to be 
present at Pakhrauli. He was going to Sultanpur and on the way he saw a crowd 
at Pakhrauli and decided to halt there. According to him he was going to Sultan- 
pur, six miles from his village, for purchasing foodkrains, but. from that 
meeting he went out to other villages for the purpose of canvassing and did not 
go anywhere to purchase the foodgrains which was his mission when he started 
from home. P.W. 12 is a member of the Praja Socialist Party. It is strange 



938 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA -.APRIL 18. 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


that during the election days he would attend only one meeting which was at 
Pakhrauli and no other. He admits in his cross-examination that except hearing 
the speeches given by the Respondent and Sri Chandra Bali Pathak, he did not 
hear any other speech given by anyone during the election. It is a strange 
chance coincidence that this witness would hear the speeches at one meeting 
which were incriminatory in nature and would not be present at any other time 
when so many other meetings were going on during those election days. The last 
witness is P.W. 23, Dukhi Singh. It any threat of any kind had been advanced 
by the Respondent in that Pakhrauli meeting this witness would not have admit- 
ted in cross-examination that the address made by the Respondent at that meet- 
ing was quite fair in his judgment.- If there was anything objectionable it would 
have struck him at once that the Respondent should not have made such a 
speech. None of these witnesses has recorded anywhere the speech that they 
had heard at that meeting and it is difficult for me to hold, therefore, that the 
Respondent went out of his way in giving out threats openly in a public meeting. 

The witnesses for the Respondent are R.Ws. 8, Sri Paras Nath Tripathi and 
R.W. 13, Sri Bihari. The Respondent, himself has stated that he never made 
any speech in the manner as alleged by these witnesses for the Petitioner and 
he never held out any threats about abandoning any scheme if the people of the 
locality did not vote for him. He has also stated and that is borne out by other 
evidence that no Railway station has yet been built at Pakhrauli. In cross- 
examination, he has admitted that he performed the inauguration ceremony when 
railway lines were again laid on the track between Lucknow and Jaunpur but 
no representation was made to him by the people of the locality that they required 
a station at Pakhrauli. R.W. 8 is a Headmaster of a Basic Primary Pathshala 
at Pakhrauli and R.W. 13 is a goldsmith who, too, is a resident Of the same 
place. R,W. 11, as already indicated, was not a person belonging to that locality 
and so were not P.Ws. 12 and 23. I would rather prefer the evidence of R.Ws. 8 
and 13 to that of P.Ws. 11, 12, and 23, and hold, accordingly, that the Respondent 
or any worker of his never made any speech at Pakhrauli by way of intimating 
the public of that place or bv holding out any promise • as indicated in sub- 
paragraph (iv) of paragraph 11 (j) . 

The next sub-paragraph which has to be considered is sub-paragraph (vii). 
It is stated in this sub-paragraph that Sri Banke Behari, a paid Bhoodan worker, 
exercised undue influence over a large number of voters by inducing them to 
vote for Respondent No. 1 and refrain from voting for the Petitioner under the 
threat that if they did not do so the lands given to them by and on behalf of 
Bhoodan Samiti would be taken back. It is stated that this Sri Banke Behari 
worked for the Respondent in the Lambhua constituency from 1st of February, 
1957 to 9th of March, 1957, and hence, according to the Petitioner’s case Sri 
Banke Behari held out .this threat to the electorate in Lambhua constituency 
within this period. There is only one witness in support of this allegation and 
he is P.W. 11, Sri Sarju Prasad Misra. He has said that Banke Behari asked 
him to work for the Respondent but when he went on doing the work for Shrimati 
Savitri Devi he threatened him saying that he would get the Pattas given by the 
Bhoodan Samiti cancelled. There is no material to find how Banke Behari could 
exert any ■ influence getting the Patta given to this witness cancelled. The witness 
possess only one bigha of land and he admits that his desire was to see that no 
body for the Congress ' succeeded in the election from his circle. It will be too 
dangerous to depend upon the evidence of such a witness to hold that Sri Banke 
Behari exercised undue influence or held out threats in the Lambhua constituency. 
There is no evidence further that the Respondent No. 1 had consented to this 
alleged action of Sri Banke Behari. I feel no hesitation, therefore, to' discard 
this charge against the Respondent and hold that both the two charges under 
the two sub-paragraphs have not been substantiated and that they are untrue. 
The issue No. 14 is also answered against the Respondent. 


Issue No. 15: — i 

/ 

This issue is based upon paragraph 11 (k), sub-paragraph (i), (ii) and (iii). 
Admittedly, there is no evidence in support of the charge tnade in sub-paragraph 
(i) and the charge made in sub-paragraph (iii) is extremely vague and lack in 
particulars. These have not been pressed by the learned counsel for the Petitioner 
and T hold, accordingly, that the allegations cf threats and pecuniary gratification 
mentioned in the two sub-paragraphs have not been substantiated. 

I shall now turn to sub-paragraph (ii). It is stated in this sub-paragraph 
that Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, as President of the District Board, deputed Sri 
Jagga Dass (R.W. 22) to canvass in support of the Respondent among the Harijans. 



Sec. S (ii)J 


THE LA/ET1E OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959, CHAITRA 28, 1881 


and, R,W, 22, with others, at Abhayya Kalan and six other places on different 
dates, between the 4th and 8th of March, 1957, gave out that if the Harijans aid 
not vote for the Respondent the educational and other facilities granted to the 
Harijans by the Government would be withdrawn and that he, himself, would 
lose his job. According to the PeLtioner, if Sri Jagga Dass and others had not made 
such speeches at Abhayya Kalan, Lambua etc., the Harijans would have voted 
for the Petitioner and not lor the Respondent. Again^ the only witness in sup- 
port of this charge is Sri Ram Dhan(P.W. 13), I have already disbelieved the 
sto.y of canvassing by Sri Jagga Dass when discussing tho issue No. 8. I have 
found that issue against the Petitioner. P.W. 13 has deposed of the speech of 
Jagga Dass only at one meeting i.e. at Abhayya Kalan. On the other hand, Sri 
Jagga Dass has been examined to discredit the testimony of P.W. 13. Sri Deo 
Kali Din Sharma, R.W. 1, has also deposed that he never asked Jagga Dass to 
make such speeches. R.W. 20, Sri Gur Prasad Singh, has also denied the 
allegations I am not in a position therefore, to accept the uncorroborated testi- 
mony of P.W. 13, alone when it Is stoutly denied by Jagga Dass, himself, and 
his evidence, on close scrutiny, I find to be a reliable one. I hold, accordingly, 
that there was no speech given by Sri Jagga Dass as alleged by the petitioner. 
This issue, too, is answered in the negative against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 16: — 

This issue rests on the allegations made in paragraph 1 1 (L) . Paragraph ('Ll 
can be divided into two parts. In the first par! of this paragraph it is said that 
the Respondent, Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, Shrimati Prabhawati Misra, Sri Ram 
Narain Misra, Sri Gur Prasad Singh and some Congress candidates in the Musaflr- 
khana constituency obtained assistance from the Agriculture Inspector of Musa- 
flrkhana, the Panchayat Secretary of Kallyanpur, the branch Post Master of 
Garab Pur, inasmuch as tho Agriculture Inspector was called to Lambua to 
influence the voters in favour of the Respondent and the Branch Post Master and 
the Sarpanches mentioned worked as polling agents. There is not a little of 
evidence about this charge. The second part of the paragraph relates to an 
alleged use of the District Board station wagon by Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma, the 
then President of the District Board and his passing orders to the District. Board 
School teachers of Pakhrauli Lohramau. Badain, Madanpur, Lambua and other 
places to close their schools after mid day Intervals for canvassing In support 
of Respondent No. 1. There is only one witness relating to this charge and he 
is P.W. 12. His evidence is not strictly in accordance with the charge mentioned 
in this part of the paragraph. He states, in general, that one month before the 
election Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma came in a car and addressed two or three 
teacheirs at Loharamau school to close it in the interval from the next day as 
canvassing was to be done for the Respondent. He also asked the teachers to 
come to +he District Board on the 4th day because there was going to be a meet- 
ing of all the school teachers of the District. About this allegation there is no 
mention in paragraph 11(L). This witness has further stated that the teachers 
were to be told about the programme of the Respondent, in that meeting. About 
this also therei is no mention in this paragraph 11(B). Sri Deo Kali Din Sharma 
has repudiated this charge by saying that he did not ask any teacher to help the 
Congress and that he did not hold any meeting asking the teachers to close the 
schools and to do the election work. 


About the use of the Station-wagon, R.W. 1 admitted that one man had com- 
plained against him about the use of the station-wagon for Congress election 
purposes before the District Magistrate who, however, found the complaint to he 
untrue, after making an enquirv into the matter. He has also given an explana- 
tion how the station-wagon of the District Board was taken by the District Magis- 
trate. It is clear from his evidence that the District Magistrate did not remove 
the station-wagon from the custody of the President of the District Board, but, 
for District Election purposes, it was taken on hire on payment of Rs. 20 per 
day. Accordingly, I am not in a position to believe the uncorrobo’ated testimony 
of P.W. 12 alone on this charge. I hold that the Petitioner has failed to nrove 
this charge and that no corrupt practice was committed as allceed in paragraph 
(L 1 ). Issue No. 16 is answered in the negative against ihe Respondent. 

Issue No. 17: — 

This Issue rests upon paragraph 11 (m) and relates to the publication by the 
Government of India of a postage stamp No evidence has been led on this charge 
and the learned counsel for the Petitioner has not pressed it. The issue is, accord- 
ingly, answered against the Petitioner. 



940 


THE GAZETTE 01' INDIA . APR.U IS, I'JQH/CHAIT RA 28, 1881 [Paid II 


Issue No. 18: — 

This issue rests upon a charge described in paragraph 11 (n) of the Petition. 
It is alleged that there was one Pahari Gujar who was working for the Petitioner 
and wielded considerable influence in the neighbouring villages and among the 
Guiors. The Respondent No. 1, his agents, workers, supporters, and canvassers 
attempted to influence him for refraining from working for the Petitioner, but, 
when they did not succeed, he was either abducted or killed by the Respondent 
No, 1 through his agents and workers, on 17th February 1957. Before his abduc- 
tion or death, it is said, Pahari Gujar had told Sri Jagat Narain Tewari (P.W. 17) 
that he had learnt reliably about an attempt on his life or an attempt to get him 
abducted Lastly, it is said, that since 17th February 1957 Pahari Gujar remain- 
ed untraced and, although, an application was filed befote the Superintendent of 
Police of Sultanpur by the brother of Pahari Gujar, no action was taken by him. 
It has been argued, on behalf of the Petitioner, that the Respondent and his 
workers had sufficient motive either to abduct or kill Pahari Gujar as he was 
an active worker for the Petitioner. Pahari Gujar told of the threats advanced 
by the Respondent’s party to P.W. 17 and has not yet been heard of since 17th 
ol February, 1957. From these circumstances I am asked to conclude that Pahari 
Gujar had either been abducted or killed by the Respondent, through his agents 
and works: s. The witnesses upon this point, on behalf of the Petitioner, are 
P.W. 5, Ram Pal Pandc, and P.W. 17, Jagat Narain, P.W. 5 simply states 
that Pahari Gujar was working for the Petitioner and also for another candidate, 
Sri Awadesh Narain Singh, for whom the witness was also working at that time, 
The witness saw him (Pahari Gujar) for the last time on 17th of February, 1957, 
at about 10 p.m„ and since then he has not been heard of. This witness does not 
speak of any threat put to Pahari Gujar by anyone. Nor does he say that Pahari 
Gujar was an active worker and wielded considerable influence in the neighbour- 
ing villages and umong the Gujars. P.W. 17 has deposed about the alleged threat. 
He has said that he last met him on the 15th of Feb uary, 1957, and had a talk 
with him. In that talk Pahari told him that he was threatened with death because 
lie was working for the Petitioner. He, too, does not mention that Pahari was 
an active worker of the Petitioner and that he had considerable influence in the 
locality or among the Gujars. The Petitioner was the best person to depose 
what kind of work was being ’ endered by the Pali i i Gujar, but, he has not 
chosen to come to the witness box. There must have been many workers like 
Pahari Gujar who had been working for the Petitioner, but, there is no reason 
why the Respondent and his workeis would focus their attention on Paha i Guiai 
alone to remove him from the localily cither temporarily or permanently. The 
evidence of P.W. 5 does not lead us anywhere and about the alleged threat said 
to have been given by (he party of the Respondent thoie is only one witness, i.e, 
P.W, 17. He, too, is not a witness of a direct threat having been given to Pahari 
Gujar by anyone, but, he had said to have simply heard of it from the said Pahari, 
The allegation has been denied and R.W. 20 has stated in crcss-examination that 
he was unaware of Pahari Gujar having seen influence on members of his own 
community. He also said that one Shamshucldin was not on good terms with 
Pahari and that he asked the villagers to try for a restoration of a cordial rela- 
tionship between them. The other thiee witnesses on behalf of the Respondent 
are R.Ws. 17, 18 and 19. R.W, 17, produced the original First Information Report 
said to have been drawn up on the statement of one Khaliq. P.W. 18 produced 
the General Diary of the ca-e which was based and which had started on this 
First Information Report. R,W. 19, a constable cleik, has proved the First Infor- 
mation Report and the signature of Khaliq and these have been marked Exhibits 
D and D-l respectively. This witness has further proved the General Diary 
which has been marked Exhibit (E). The only criticism against this witness was 
that he got copies made of Ihe First Information Report and the General Diary 
from before hand, although, he had not been asked to do so in the summon. A 
Suggestion was thrown to him that he rcco dec! something quite different from 
what Khaliq has stated and that the signature Exhibit D-l was not a genuine 
one. These suggestions arc simply fantastic. This witness was not in a posi- 
tion to forge the signature or manufacture a document for the purpose of this 
case when the documents re-led upon a comnlaint made in the year 1957, From 
the First Information Report it appears that Khaliq is a brother of Pahari Gujar. 
He (Pahari) is reported to have gone to village Shiv Pura at 9 p.m. on the night 
of 17t.h of February, 1957, and since then he did not appear. In this First Infor- 
mation Report it is said that Pahari’s wife had illicit connection with Shamshud- 
din and there was dispute between him and Pahari a few days p"ior to his dis- 
appearance The informant suspected Shamshuddin. the wife of Pahari. and one 
Ashraf Gujar to be the murderers of his brother. It is important to note in this 
connection that the disappearance was from 17th February 1957 and the First 
Information Report was recorded on 4th of March, 1957, about three weeks later, 



•Sfc. 3 (ii)| THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : APRIL 18, !959/GH.'.ITRA 28, 1881 94 ! 


If there was any truth in the suggestion that the Respondent No. 1 or his workers 
had enher killed or abducted Pahari it was not likely that a full brother of Pahari 
would exhoneratc them and substitute in their place, Shamshuddin, the wife of 
Pahari and another man as the persons being responsible for his brother’s murder 
or d’sappearance. There is no proof that any Petition was moved before the 
Superintendent of Police. The Superintendent of Police has been examined in 
this case as R.W. 14 and no question was put to him about this matter. The 
.investigation of the ease did not reveal that Pahari’s disappearance had anything 
to do with the election or the Respondent’s party. I have no hesitation, there- 
fore, to hold that the charge is a false one and there is not an iota of evidence 
in support of the charge. Accordingly, I decide this issue against the Petitioner 
holding that the allegation contained in this paragraph 11 (n) are not correct 
I furrher hold that on this finding there is no question of the validity of the 
election being affected. 


Issue No, 19: — 

This issue rests upon the paragraph 11 (o’) of the Petition which states that 
the return of election expenses filed by the Respondent is incorrect and false in 
mateiial particulars, No evidence has been led on this issue and has been given 
up by the learned counsel for the Petitioner. I hold, accordingly, that the elec- 
tion of the Respondent has not been rendered invalid by alleged submission of 
an incorrect or false return of election expenses. 


Issue No. 20: — 


This issue is based upon paragraph 11 (p) of the Petition. It has been alleged 
in this Paragraph that one Sri Ghor Pade was the Private Secretary of the 
Respondent and an employee of the Central Government, but, he came with the 
Respondent to Sultanpur, stayed with him and was incharge of the Respondent’s 
election. It is significant, that this paragraph lacks the essential particulars, but, 
the Petitioner has attempted to fill up the deficiency by examining witnesses who 
have stated that the Respondent had converted the Dak Bungalow which is the 
same as the Inspection-Bungalow Sultanpur, into his Election Office, that Sri 
Ghor Fade was living 111 this building and carrying on the work of the Respon- 
dent’s election in one of the room, and had, actually gone to the District Election 
Office to get a copy of a list of Polling Stations, which is proved by Exhibit 10, 
his signature, in a register kept at the District Election Office. There was no 
whisper anywhere in paragraph 11 (p) about Respondent holding his private 
Election Office m the building of the Inspection bungalow, or, Sri Ghor Pade 
obtaining a copy of the lut of polling' stat'qns from the District Election Office. 
The fact about Sri Ghor Pade having brought the list from the District Election 
Ofilrc has not been challenged by the Respondent, but, an explanation has been 
rendered bv him in this v av that on that day he had stopped at a little distance 
from the district Election Office to speak to certain Congress workers and had 
requested Sri Ghor Fade to go ahead to the District Election Office and bring 
the list io him. It ha 3 been vehemently urged on behalf of the Petitioner that 
this explanaaon is a new one which had not been made out by the Respondent 
ill his written statement, and for this reason the explanation should be disca'rted 
and it should be held that Sri Ghor Fade wns helping the Respondent m his 
election work, The Responded could have been blamed in thus manner if there 
was any mention about the obtaining of the list of polling stations by Sri Ghor 
Fade in the Petition. As this piece of information was for the first time brought 
nut in the statements of the Petitioner’s witnesses, no blame can be attached 
to the Respondent if he has found it fit Io reply to it by giving his denial and 
prov’id'ng for a believable explanation. The Petitioner has proved Exhibits 15 
and ’G series, Travelling Allowance Bills of Sri Ghor Pade, to show that Sri 
Gho’- Pade was moving about between Sultanpur, Lucknow, Allahabad and Delhi 
on those dales. Exhibit 15-4 shows that Sri Ghor Pade was halting at Sultanpur 
from 22nd February, 1957 to 9th of March, 1957. This is also not denied and 
the Respondent has staled in his cross-examination that Sri Ghor Pade used 
to stay at the Dak Bungalow with him, and that he happened to be there on his 
duty to look after his official and personal work. He had made it clear that that 
personal work did not include anything done for the election purposes, that during 
the election days he, the Respondent, was attending to his official work also as 
he used to get files and telephone calls and attend to them. Naturally he had 
liis office at the Dak Bungalow and Sri Ghor Pade was also there to look after 
his official work and also his personal work excluding any work connected with 
the election. The presence of Sri Ghor Pade, therefore, from 22nd February, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/CHAlTRA 28, 1881 [Pari' IT 


1957 to 9th of March, 1957 at the Inspection Bungalow of Sultanpur, docs not 
necessarily give rise to an inference that he was carrying on the election work, 
of the Respondent. 

Conscious of this weakness in the charge as mentioned in paragraph 11 (p) 
the Petitioner has examined several witnesses to show that the Inspection- 
bungalow was used as the private Election Office of the Respondent, As already 
stated this fact has not been mentioned in paragraph 11 (pi. The Respondent 
has denied and his other witnesses have stated that his election work was being 
conducted mainly from the Central Election Office situated at Sultanpur City 
and his other election work was being carried on in the private office of the 
Congress candidate who was contesting the election from the constituency for a 
seat in the Legislative Assembly. The witnesses for the Petitioner, in tins con- 
nection, are i-' Ws. 21, 24 and 25. P.W. 21 staled in examination-in-chief that 
Sri Ghor Fade was working for the Respondent in h s election and his office 
was at Sultanpur Dak Bungalow. This witness was canvassing for a Praja Socia- 
list Party candidate. In cross-examination, he was unable to give the day or 
the date when he visited the Dak Bungalow. According to him he accompanied 
Sri Rudra Pal Misra to the Dak Bungalow. It is difficult for me to believe that 
Rudra Pal would bring a worker of a rival party, although, not contesting for 
a seat in the Parliament, with him to a place where election work was being 
surreptitiously carried on by the Congress party, The witness says that Rudra 
Pal knew him very well that he was a worker for the Socialist Party and also 
knew that he (witness) did not want the Congress to be victorious in the elec- 
tion. According to the witness he stayed at the Dak Bungalow only for two 
or ffiree minutes and even saw Rudra Pal taking the notice, Exhibit 2, which 
was of a very incriminating nature, The next witness is P.W. 24, the District 
Secretary of the Praja Socialist Party at Sultanpur. He has said that Sri Ghor 
Pade was incharge of the election office of the Respondent, which was situated 
in the Dak Bungalow. From his cross-examination, it appears, that he was very- 
much against the Congress and, admittedly, he belonged to a rival paity. Strong- 
ly enough, although, he get information from Congress-workers that they were 
visiting the Dak Bungalow to get papers and money, he never chose to go theie 
in order to check up the news received by him. He new that the Dak Bungalow 
was a Government property and that holding of an election office there was 
objectionable, yet he did not complain to any authority. As an explanation he 
has said that he did not complain cither orally or in writing about this irregular 
practice because the Government servants themselves were party to it. There 
was no complaint, however, made to the Election Commission who had nothing 
to do with the Local Government servants. There was also no huidlc preventing 
this witness from informing the public about this corrupt practice through the 
medium of a newspaper. Tire last witness on the subject is P.W. 25, who is far 
from being called an independent one. Admittedly, he and his wife were expel- 
led from the Congress, his wife was lefused a Congress ticket in the last election 
and she was at that time contesting a seat in the Assembly as an Independent 
Candidate fighting the candidate set up by the Congress. The witness has said 
that the election work of Dr. Keskar used to go on in the room occupied by Sri 
Ghor Fade. In cross-examination, he has said, that Sri Ghor Pade had come 
to him twice and asked him to go to the Inspection-bungalow in order to see 
the Respondent who had suggested that- both he and his wife should not oppose 
him in his parliamentary constituency. He has further said that he saw Sri 
Ghor Pade distributing posters, notices, papers, pencils, and cash to the workers. 
He has admitted that such acts by or on behalf of the Respondent was improper 
and illegal and must have been affecting the interest of the rival candidates. But, 
strangely enough, he did not complain to any authority for utilizing a Govern- 
ment property and obtaining the services of a Government servant. He even, 
did not protest to Sri Ghor Fade as to why he was doing the election work for 
the Respondent there. When asked about his conduct in not bringing the matter 
to the notice of the authorities the witness has said that the District Magistrate 
•and other high officers were working for Dr. Keskar. He went even so far as 
to say that the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police were dis- 
honest persons, but, he had to admit that he did not send any complaint in writing 
either to the Election Commission or to the President of India. I am not inclined 
to believe another explanation of this witness as to why he did not complaint 
to the Election Commission and to the President of India because he himself 
was not concerned. According to his own admission this illegal practice was 
affecting the interest of rival candidates and must have been affecting the interest 
of his wife as well. In any case, nothing prevented him from publishing the- 
matter in the newspaper when the election work was going on in the Inspection- 
bungalow not for a day o: two but for about a fortnight, according to the evidence 
of the witnesses. 



943 


bTC. 3 (ii)] THE GA7F.TTF. OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28. 1881 


Apart from the denial by the Respondent (R,W. 2ff) there is also the denial 
by R.Ws. 1, 11, and 20. It is true that they are men belonging to the Congress 
organization but they held important posts in connection with the Congress 
election in that constituency and were, therefore, persons competent enough to 
say if the Inspection-bungalow had been converted into a private Election Office 
rof the Respondent. R.W. 1 was the Director of Congress Elections in that district. 
R.W. 11 was the President of the District Congress Committee of Sultanpur, 
during that time and R.W. 20 was, at the relevant time, the General Secretary 
of the District Congress Committee. 1 hold, accordingly, that there was no 
election office of the Respondent in the> Inspection-bungalow at Sultanpur and 
no election work was being carried on on his behalf from that place. 

P.Ws. 16 and 20 are the clerks of the District Election Office at Sultanpur. 
P,W. 20 has proved Exhibit 10. From Exhibit 10, and from the evidence it 
appears that it was Sri Ghor Pade who was delivered a list of polling stations 
and that Sri Ghor Pade had received it for the Respondent. This fact, alone, 
■docs not prove that Sri Ghor Pade was assisting the Respondent in his election 
wo~k. The explanation given by the Respondent and R.W. 20 may or may not 
be true but there is nothing to show that a stray act of this nature amounted 
to an assistance rendered within the meaning of section 123, sub-section (vii) 
of the Representation of the People Act. 1 fail to understand how an act of this 
kind can be construed as one done in furtherance, of the prospects of a candi- 
date’s election. Sri Ghor Pade was the Private Secretary of the Respondent and 
was looking after his official and personal work excluding any working connec- 
tion with the election. Even if it is conceded for a moment that coming to the 
petrol pump and getting down there was an afterthought and that the Respondent 
had asked Sri Ghor Pade at the Inspection-bungalow to go and fetch a list of 
polling stations from the District Election Office it cannot be argued that he 
made use of a Government servant for the furtherance of his prospects in his 
election. It has further been urged in this connection that Sri Ghor Pade had 
also come to the District Election Office to submit the return of election-expenses. 
P.W. 16, has, however, said that he is not definite whether the Private Secretary 
of the Respondent came to submit the returns. He has said that he saw the 
Private Secretary coming to the election office once or twice during the election 
but at the same time added that he could not say for what purpose he came. 
It is possible, as, explained by the Respondent, the Private Secretary might have 
come to the District Election Office as well as might have gone to Ihe District 
Congress Office hi search of him in connection with the matters which had nothing 
to do with the election. Similarly, P W. 20 said in his examination-in-chief that 
during the election the Private Secretary of thp Respondent used to come to the 
election office but could not say for how many times he visited it. He also could 
not give the time and date of his visits to this office. In my judgment, a mere 
rendering of assistance by a Government servant to a candidate do^s not amount 
to a corrupt, practice. It must be shown that the assistance was so rendered 
for the furtherance of the prosoects of the candidate's election. A few casual 
visits to the District Election Office bv Sri Ghor Pade which can be reasonably 
explained away cannot be const-iied as rendering of assistance in the election- 
work. I bold, accordingly, that ihe Petitioner has failed to nrove his allegation 
contained in paragraph 11 (p) of the Petition and that the Respondent did not 
utilize the services of Sri Ghor Pade. a Government se-vant, in his election work, 
during his stay at the Inspection-bungalow of Sultanpur. This issue, too, is 
answered in the negative aeainst the Petitioner, anff I hold that the validity of 
the election has not been effected in any manner whatsoever. 

Issue No, 21. — i 

This issue rests upon paragraph lltq) which on account of lack of evidence 
has been given up bv the learned counsel for the Petitioner. Accordingly, this 
issue is answered in the negative against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 22. — 

This issue rests on the contention put forward in paragraph 12 of the Petition. 
It says that the Respondent had taken recourse to fraud, intentional misrepresen- 
tation, corrupt practices and electoral offences and had also not complied with 
the provisions of the Constitution of India, and the Representation of the People 
Act, and the rules made thereunder, for which the result of the election has been 
materially affected. It is also stated that if the votes would not have been obtain- 
ed bv the Respondent No. 1 bv means of corrupt practices and electoral offences 
the Petitioner would have obtained a majority of valid votes. This paragraph 
is more in the nature of summing up the contents of the Petition and of submis- 
sion made by the Petitioner with respect to the result of the Election. I hold 
that as the particulars given in the Petition have not been substantiated and as 



944 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


the Respondent has not been found to have committed any corrupt practice or 
an electoral offence, or found guilty of fraud or intentional misrepresentation, 
the result of the election has not been affected in any manner. This issue, too,, 
is decided against the Petitioner. 

In conclusion, I want to add a few sentences, although, I may have to repeat 
some of the observations made earlier in my judgment, in a case of this nature 
when the finding regarding a corrupt piactice entaiJs an electoral punishment a. 
high degree of proof is necessary. It has been held in many cases that charges 
of corrupt practices are of a quasi-criminal nature and, accordingly, the buiden 
of proof is strictly upon the Petitioner. This burden, in the present Election. 
Petition case, the Petitioner has miserably failed to discharge. There is hardly 
any corroboration of the oral testimony of the Petitioner’s witnesses. With res- 
pect to many of the charges the evidence has been very scanty. The Constitu- 
ency was one where candidates of different vocations in life stood for the 
Assembly or the House of the People and the organisations rival to that to which 
the Respondent belonged could not have been blind to the alleged conupt prac- 
tices which were said to have been going on under their very noses for some 
appreciable time. No complaint was made to any authority, who could check 
the alleged corrupt practices immediately. Explanations have been given for the 
absence of such complaints which have been found to be totally devoid of reasons 
There is no evidence worth the name that the high Government Officers of Sultan- 
pur district were backing the Respondent on his election, that they were imper- 
vious to the complaints made by candidates of other parties and who went to the 
length of exposing themselves to severe disciplinary actions which would have 
blasted their careers. Even if these District Offieeis were under the control of 
the Respondent or the Congress organisation there is no satisfactory explanation 
why the candidates affected by the alleged partiality of the Government Officers 
did not go higher up in bringing the matter to the notice of the Election Com- 
mission or ventilate their grievances in the daily and weekly newspapers of the 
district, It is not the case of the Petitioner that the Press of the locality had 
been muzzled and they could not daie publish the speeches which were uttered 
by the Respondent and his workers in open defiance ol the provisions of the 
Representation of the Pcoeple Art. Besides the Press of the district there were 
other newspapers scattered over all the country which would have published these 
allegations without any special efforts being made by the candidates who had 
been affected. The candidates were not unsophisticated villagers who would be 
cowed down by the presence of the Government Officers. Persons who had taken, 
part an interest in the election were lawyers and veteran fighters of many elec- 
tions and, although, some of them chose to publish in the local newspapers some- 
thing unimportant in relation to election, they did not chose to publish matters 
which were vital to their interests and welfares. They contended to themselves 
by remaining passive observers to the numerous irregular and illegal practices 
committed by or on behalf of the Respondent. There is not a single witness, on 
behalf of the Petitioner, who, could be called as an independent and totally dis- 
interested in this case or in the elcetion. On the other hand. I have found the 
evidence of the witnesses on behalf of the Respondent to he of far better credi- 
bility, as, some of them have no predilection towards any party, and, those who 
have, are competent ones for the ourpose of denying the charges. It is true 
that some persons against whom allegations have been directed by the Petitioner, 
such as, Kunwar Rananjaya Singh, Sri Rudra Pal, Sri Rama Kanl, Sri Ghor Pade, 
have not been examined, but, no adverse inference can be drawn against the 
Respondent for their non-eitamination, when there was no burden cast upon the 
Respondent to disciedlt the allegations nr charges which have not been proved. 
In any event the Petitioner has to stand or fall by the strength of his own evidence 
and not through the weakness, if any, of the evidence supplied by the Respon- 
dent. 

After giving the entire evidence my anxious consideration I hold under section 
98 of the Representation of the People Act, that there is no merit in this Election 
Petition and I, therefore, direct the same to be dismissed forthwith. Under 
section 99 of the Act I make this observation that no corrupt practice has been 
proved to have been committed by the Respondent or his agents or with his con- 
sent or with the consent of his agents. I accordingly, direct that the Petitioner 
should pay the Respondent No. 1, a sum of Rs. 500 towards costs of this Petition. 
The 9th March. 1959. I : 

i (Sd.) K. K Banerjt 

Member, 

Election Tribunal, Uttar Pradesh. 

Allahabad. 


TNo. 82/451/57/6320.? 
DIN DAYAL, Under Secy, 



Src, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, l^Q/CIIAITRA 28, 1881 945 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 

S.O. 798. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the article 81 of the Consti- 
tution of India as modified by the Constitution (Application to Jammu and 
Kashmir) Order 1954, the President, on the recommendation of the Legislature of 
the Statei of Jammu and Kashmir is pleased to nominate Shn Inderjit Lai 
Malhotra in the House of the People (Lok Sabha) to fill the vacancy caused by 
the demise of Shri Thakur Dass Malhotra 

[No. F.15/1/59-K. | 
SHANKAR PRASAD, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th April 1959 

S.O, 799. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Preventive 
Detention Act, 1950 (4 of 1950), and in partial modification of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs, 
No. S.R O. 3538 dated the 27th November. 1954 (as amended by notifications 
Nos. S.O. 1728 dated the 22nd August, 1958 and S.O 50 dated the 5th January, 
1959) constituting an Advisory Board for the purposes of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby — 

(1) appoints the Hon’ble Mr. Justice A. N. Bhandarl. Chief Justice of the 

Punjab High Court, as a member of the Advisory Board in the place 
of the Hon’ble Mr. Justice Bishan Narain; and 

(2) further appoints the Hon’blc Mr. Justice A. N. Bhandari as the Chair- 

man of the Advisory Board in the place of the Hon’blc Mr. Justice 
G. D. Khosla, who will continue to be a member of the Advisory 
Board. 

[No. 44/3/59-Poll(I).l 
N. SAHGAL. Jt. Seey. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 18lh April 1959 

S.O. 800.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 ol the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President 
hereby makes the following amendments in the Schedule to the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) 
No. S.R.O. G39, dated the 28ih February, 1957, namely: — 

In the said schedule, in Part IT — General Central Service, class III, under 
the heading ‘Railway Audit Offices', for the existing entries in columns 
2 to 5 against ‘Subordinate Railway Audit Service’ in column 1, the 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 


2 


3 


4 


Chief Chief Auditor. All 

Audi! or. 

Deputy Chief tii to 

Auditor. (iii 


Comjpl'oller and 
Auditor Gcncrd. 
Chief Auditor, 


R. K, RANGAN, Dy. Secy. 



VO 

4 * 

CT\ 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

\ev> Delhi, the 8th April 1959 

S.O. Soi.— Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 3rd April, 1959. 

B wring Department 



Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 


Rs. 

Capital paid up ..... 

5,00,00,000 

Notes ...... 


13,41.74,000 

Reserve Fund ...... 

80,00,00,000 

Rupee Coin ...... 


3,39,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Opera- 
tions) Fund ..... 

25.00,00,000 

Subsidiary Coin ..... 


4 90,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) 
Fund ...... 

3,00,00,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 

(a) Internal ..... 



Deposits : — 


(6) External . 



(a) Government 


(c) Government Treasury Bills 


23,11,10.000 

(1) Central Gov emm 'at . 

60 60 94,000 

Balances held abroad* 


36,32,36,000 

(2) Other Governments . 

11,83,53 000 

* ‘Loans and Advances to Governments 


31,26.03,000 

(6) Banks ...... 

73,07,86,000 

Other Loans and Advances! 


97,85.52 000 

(c) Others ...... 

1 1 8 92,80,000 

Investments ..... 


231,46 45.000 

Bills Payable ... . 

29,60,41,000 

Other Assets ..... 


12,55 43.000 

Other Liabilities ..... 

41,01,38,000 




Total . 

448,06,92,000 

Total 


448,06,92.000 


‘Includes Cash & Short term Securities. “Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments. 

fThe item ‘Other Loans and Advances* includes Rs. 1 1,3 2,24,000/- advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills unde- Sec ion 1 (4) (c) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 

Dated the 8th day of April, 1959. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . APRIL 18. 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 3rd day of April 1959. 

Issue Department 



Notes held in the Banking De- 
partment . . ■ 1541,74,000 

Notes in circulation . . 1744.31,39,000 

Total Notes issued ■ . 1759,7343)000 


A, Gold Coin and Bullion : — 

(u) Held in India - 

(i?7 Held outside India . 
Foreign Securities 
Total of A. 

B. Rupee Coin . 

Government of India Rupee Securi- 
ties 

Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
commercial paper - 


117,76,03,000 

178,00,89,000 

295,76,92,oco 

132,77,34,000 

1331,24,97,000 


Total— Inabilities . . i759,73-i3,ooo Total— Assets . . , 1759,7343, 000 

H. V. R. Iengar, 

Dated the 8th day of April, 1959. Governor. 

[No. F 3(2>BC/S9]. 

— A. BAKST, Jt. Secy. 

ERRATUM 

In the Weekly Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, publish- 
ed under S. O. 548 on page 624 in the Gazette of India, Fart II Sec, 3 (ii), dated 
the 14th March, 1959, the following correction is to be made: — 

In the heading of the Statement for the words “Statement of the Affairs of 
the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 20th February, 1959“ read “Statement of 
the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 27th February, 1959.” 



'U 


SEC. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 



THE GAZETTE OF 1NHH: APRIL 18, I959/CHAI1RA 28. 1881 [Part IIj 


94S 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs ( 

New Delhi, the 18th April 1959 

S.O. 803. -In exercise of tile powers conferred by section 2.'i of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State- 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments m the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance 
Department (Central Revenues) No. 33-Customs, dated the 22nd June, 1935, 
namely ; — 

111 the said notification, in Schedule I — Import Duties, — 

(1) The head ‘F. Portuguese India’, serial numbers 68, 70 and 73 and the- 

entries relating thereto shall be omitted; 

(2) under the head ‘H. Miscellaneous’, serial number 77 and the entries 

relating thereto shall be omitted. 


[No. 70,] 

S.O. 803.— In exercise of fhc powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts goods imported from Goa 
into in d.a (u) by sea at a customs port or (b) by a Land Customs Station which 
are proved to the satisfaction of the Customs Collector or the Land Customs 
Officer as the case may be, to have been previously imported into Goa from 

India (a) by sea from any customs port, or (b) by a Land Customs Station 

respectively, provided — 

(i) that such goods are declared at the time of export from a customs port 
or from a. Land Customs Station as the case may be, as intended for 
re-importation into India after passing in transit through Portuguese 
India and that a certificate of such declaration in such form as may 

be prescribed by the Collector of Central Excise, Bombay, is obtain- 

ed from the Customs Collector oi the Land Customs Officer respec- 
tively; 

(n ) that no drawback of duty was obtained at the time of export; 

(hi) that the certificate obtained at the time of the export of the goods is 
produced on their rc-importation into India and that the identity of 
the goods is proved to ihe satisfaction of the Land Customs Officer 
or the Customs Collector as the case may be; and 

(iv) that the goods are re-imported into India within 60 days of the date 
of the certificate, obtained at the place of export within such extend- 
ed time, not exceeding 180 days, as the Chief Customs Officer may 
for sufficient reason allow, from the whole of the duty of Customs 
leviable thereon. 


[No. 71,] 

S.O. 8 04. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Custums Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts, articles other than 
cinematograph films imported by a Land Customs Station from Portuguese India, 
when the Collector of Land Customs is satisfied that such articles are being 
imported into India for a temporary and specified purpose or period after the 
completion of which they are to be re-exported out of India to Portuguese/ India 
or that they are being re-imported into India after having been originally export- 
ed to Portuguese India from India for a temporary purpose or period, from the 
whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon. 


[No. 72,] 

S.O. 805 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts, Cotton seed imported via 
Bombay for experimental purposes on behalf of the Maritime Indian States, when 
certified accordingly by the Secretary, Indian Central Cotton Committee, or by 



Snc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OK INBIA : APRIL 18, 1959/C, HAITRA. £8, 1881 949, 


officers of the respective States enumerated in the second schedule attached to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Education, 
Health and Lands, No. 1213-Agri., dated the 27th May, 1930, from the whole of 
the duty of Customs leviable thereon. 


[No. 73.] 
M. C- DAS, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 7 th April 1959 

S.O. 806/IDRA/G/12. — In pursuance of rule 8 of the Development Councils 
(Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R. T. 
Mirchandani, Agricultural Marketing Adviser, Directorate of Marketing and 
Inspection, Nagpur, as a member of the Development Council for the scheduled 
industries engaged in the manufacture and production of textiles made of wool, 
including woollen yarn, hosiery, carpets and druggets, in place of Dr, M, B, 
Ghatge, who has resigned, and directs that the following amendment shall be 
made In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S.R.O. 2820/IDRA/G/12, dated the 31st August, 1957, namely: — 

In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members “being 
persons who, in the opinion of the Central Government have special knowledge 
of matters relating to the technical or other aspects of the said scheduled indus- 
tries” for entry No. 14, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“’4. Shri R. T. Mirchandani, Agricultural Marketing Adviser, Directorate 
of Marketing and Inspection, Nagpur,” 


[No. 4(59)IA(II)(G)/58.] 

S.O, 807/IDRA/G/13. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), 
read with paragraph 1(b) of the Order of the Government of India in the Minis- 
try of Commerce and Industry Nq. S-R.O, 205, dated the 4th March, 1958, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Ra] Kumar Mehrotra, 8/78, Arya Nagar, 
Kanpur, as a member of the Development Council established by the said Order 
for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or production of Soaps, 
Paints and Plastics, and directs that the following amendments shall be made in 
the said Order, namely: — 

(1) In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members “being 
persons who, in the opinion of the Central Government are capable 
of representing the Interests of persons employed In industrial under- 
takings in the said scheduled industries” after entry No. 18 relating 
to Shri J. C. Dixit, the following entry shall be inserted, namely:— 

"18A. Shri Raj Kumar Mehrotra, 8/78, Arya Nagar, Kanpur.” 
and (ii) Paragraph 1(b) shall be omitted. 


[No. 5(32)IA(II)(G)/57.] 
A. K. CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi , the 1st April 1959 j 

S.O, 808. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Rules 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
the Indian Standards given in the Schedule hereto annexed have been established during the 
quarter ending 31 March 19 J9. 



■ 950 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, I959/CHA1TRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


The Schedule 


SI. No. of Indian Title of Indian Slandnrd 

Ho. Standard 

I 2 


1 IS : 226— 1958 , Specification for Structural Steel (Second Revision ). 

2 IS : 505—1958 . Specification for Cmna-CIay foi Rubber Industry. 

3 IS : 707 — 1958 . Glossary of Terms Applicable to Timber, Plywood and Toincry. 

4 IS : 865— 1958 • Method for Determination of Colour Fastness of Texlile Materials to 

Decatizing 

5 IS : 910—1958 • Specification for Combined Key for Hydrant, Hydrant Cover and 

Lower Valve. 

6 IS : 911 — 195 8 • Specification far Braided Air Hose, Heavy Duty. 

7 IS : 912—1958 . Specification for Braided Air Hose, Light Duty. 

8 TS:9I3—I95 8 ■ Specification foi Braided Water Hose, High Pressure. 

9 IS : 914 — 1958 ■ Specification foi Braided Water Hose, Low Pressure. 

10 IS : 916 — -1958 ■ Specification for 18-Litrc Square Tins. 

11 IS : 9ZD- 1958 ■ Specification for Common Salt for Animal Consumption. 

12 IS : 927— 1958 ■ Specification fo. Fire Hocks. 

13 IS : 982— 1959 • Method foi Determination of Colour Fastness of Textile Matenals 

to Carbonising with Aluminium Chloride. 

14 IS : 983 — 1958 - Method for Determination of Colout Fastness of Textile Materials 

to Alkaline Milling. 

15 IS : 1057— 1958 . Specification for Commercial Me ric Carat Weights. 

16 IS: 1067—1958 . Specification lor Commercial Silvei -Plating. 

17 IS : 1068—1958 ■ Specification for Copper, Nickel a n d Churmium [Electroplated 

Coatings. 

18 IS: 1131—1958. Specification for Bicycle Bottom Bracket Axle. 

19 IS: 1132—1958 • Specificai ion for Bicycle Bottom Bracket Adjustable Cup. 

20 IS : 113.,— 1958 • Specification for Bicycle Bouom Bracket Fixed Cup. 

21 IS : 1134 — 1958 . Specification for Bicycle Bottom Bracket locking Nut. 

22 IS: 1163—1958 . Specification for Covering Chocolate. 

23 IS: 1164—1958 . Specification for Cocoa-Powder. 

24 IS: 1196 — 1958 ■ Code of Practice for Laying Mastic Asphalt Flooring. 

25 IS:II97“I958 - Code of Practice for Laying of Rubber Floors. 

26 IS : 1198— 1958 ■ Code of Practice for Laying and Maintenance of Linoleum Floors. 

27 IS : 1201— 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Sampling. 

28 IS : i20i- 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Specific 

Gravitv. 

29 IS: 1203—1958 ■ Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Penetra- 

tion. 

30 IS : 1204— 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Residue 

of Specified Penetration. 

31 IS: 1205—1958 . Methods foi Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Softening 

Point. 

32 IS: 1206—1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen: Determination of Visco- 

sity. 

33 IS: 1207 — 1958 • Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Equivis- 

cous Temperature (EVT). 

34 IS : 1208- 1958 . Methods for Testing Tai and Bitumen : Determination of Ductility 

35 IS : 1209— 1958 • Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Flash 

Point and Fire Point. 

36 IS : t2 ro— 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Float Test. 

37 IS: 1211—1958 . Methods for Testing Tai and Bitumen: Determination of Water 

Content (Dctn and Stark Method). 

38 IS : 1212— 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen: Determination of Loss on 

Heating. 

39 IS : 1213— 1958 . Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Distillation Test. 

40 IS: 1214—1958 . Methods foi Testing Tar and Bitumen: Determination of Watei 

Insoluble in Benzene. 

4t IS : 1215 — 1958 . Aderhods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Matter 

Insoluble in Toluene, 

42 IS : 1216—1958 , Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Detcimination of Solubility 

in Carbon Disulphide. 

43 IS: 12x7—1958 ■ Methods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Mineral 

Mattel (ASH). 




Sue. .1 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 19VI/CHAITRA 28, I8R1 


951 ' 


I 


2 


44 

IS : 

1218— 

1958 

45 

IS : 

1219— 

1958 

46 

IS : 

1220— 

1958 

47 

IS : 

1224— 

1958 

48 

IS r 

1248— 

•1958 

49 

IS : 

I 2 J 6 — 

-1958 

50 

IS : 

1258— 

-195S 

5 i 

IS : 

1263— 

-1958 

52 

IS ; 

1271 — 

1958 

53 

IS : 

1272“ 

-1958 

54 

IS : 

: 1273 “ 

-195K 

55 

IS : 

! 1276— 

1958 

56 

IS : 

: 1278- 

1958 

57 

IS : 

1279 - 

1957 

58 

IS : 

: 1280— 

1958 


Methods for Testing Ter and Ritumen : Dett rmination of Phenols. 

Methods for Testing Ta± and Bitumen : Determination of Neph- 
thalcne. 

Met) ods for Testing Tar and Bitumen : Determination of Volatile 
Mattel Content. 

Determination of F.u in Whole Milk, Evaporated (Unsweetened) 
Milk, Separated Milk, Skim Milk, Buttermilk and Crerm by the 
Gerbci Method. 

Specification fi l Electrical indicating instruments. 

Code of Building Byelaws. 

Specification for Bayonet Lampholders. 

Specification for Cocoa Butter. 

Classification of Insulating Materials for Electrical Machinery and 
Apparatus in Relation to their Thermal Stability in Setvicc. 

Specification for Coal Tar Solvent Naphtha, Light, Grade 2 . 

Specification for Leather Pump Buckets Made from Chrome 
Tanned Leather. 

Specification for Grease S, No. 2 . 

Specification for Filler Rods and W T res for Gas Welding. 

Specification for Electrically Welded Mild Steel Boiler and Sup- 
erheatt r Tubes, 

Specificanon lor Foundary Moulding Bnxct. 


[No. MEClllfe).]' 
C. N. MODAWAL, Dy. Direct n Mills) 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE, CALCUTTA 

Central Excise 

’ Calcutta, the 1st April 1959 

S.O. 809. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 173 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, read with rule 233 ibid, I hereby order that licensees 
of private bonded warehouses for un-manufactui ed tobacco where no processing 
is done shall maintain henceforth warehouse registers in the appended form in 
lieu of Parts I, II and III of W.R.G. 2 (C.E. Series No. 81) as done hitherto pro- 
vided that such licensees will have the option to maintain records in the statutory 
form if they find it convenient to do so. 

2. This Collectorate Central Excbe Notification No. 5/1958, dated the 8th. 
April, 1957 is hereby cancelled. , 





‘■"WAREHOUSE REGISTER” 

To be Maintained by a licensee of a private bonded warehouse for Unmanufactured Tobacco where no processing is dorti 
Situation of Warehouse Name of Licensee Ho. and Date of Licence . . . , 



I 


I 


ISSUES 


o 

ft 


% 


o 

6 

8 

cd 



o 

Vj 

fi 


O 

hJ 


o 

Cfl 

5 

o 


Balance in 
Stock in 
warehouse 


as 

e 

3 

£ 


14 15 16 17 IS 19 20 21 22 23 24 


remarks 


25 


26 


Note. — ( 1) Receipts and issues should be shown on separate 'ines and the balance struck. 

(2) Loss or gain in storage as ascertained by the licensee at the time of clearance should be entered in columns 22 ex 23 as ibe c ise may be. 

[Ho. 5/1959.] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18. UW/CHAITRA 28, 1381 [Part II 



953 


Sec. ? (u)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: ATR1E 18, KOT/CHAITRA US, 1R81 


S.O. 810.— In exercise of the powers conferred on me J? y 
Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby empower the Central Excise Officer, spewed b ^ 
to exercise, the powers of Collector under the rule enumerated in column - ot me 
Table subject to the restrictions set out m column 3 thereoi. ^ 


.Rank of Officer Relevant rule in respect of which 
power is delegated 


Restrictions, if any 


Assistant Co'lector 12 — A 

of Central Excise 


The power to grant rebate in res- 
pect of exports under ru'e I2-A 
through the major ports shall be 
exercised by Collector. 

[No. 6/1959.] 


S. P. KAMPANI, Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE GOA 
FRONTIER DIVISION, BELGAUM 

Notice 


Belgaum, the 4tli April 1959 


S.O. 811,- 

1. Kamblies 

2. Umbrellas 

3. Gunnv bugs 

4. Bangles 


■Whereas it 


that the marginally noted goods which 
were seized by the S.R.P. party and 
Customs Matna at a place known as 
Borkyache Temb in the, vicinity of the 
Indo-Goa Border on 23rd May, 1957, were 
about to be exported by land to Goa 
(Portuguese territories in India) in contra- 
vention of Section 5(1) of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 and the Government of 
India Ministry of Commerce, and Indus- 
tries Export Control Order No. 1/54 dated 10th May, 1954, issued under Section 
■3 of the Imports and Exports Control Act, 1947 and further deemed to have been 
issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (in respect of items 1, 2, 3, 4, 
5 noted in the margin). 


appears 
52 
36 
ll 
34 

Bundles. 

5. Rice grams, ortions, etc. 4] 

Seers 

G. Old Utensils 2 


2. Now. therefore, any pe. son claiming the goods is hereby called upon 
Lo show cause, to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, 

a Frontier Division, Belgaum why the above mentioned goods should not be 
confiscated under Section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act, 1924, read with Section 
147(8) of the Sea Customs Aci, 1878 and the old utensils under Section 168 of 
tht Sea Customs Act, 1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him 
under Section 7(1) (c) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167(8) 
■of the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 

3. Tf such a owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to he taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government ol India Gazetlc, the goods 
'in question will be treated as unclaimed' and the cuse will be decided accordingly. 

[No. VIII(b) 15-344/57.] 

1 E. H. SRIKANTIA, 

Asstt. Collector of Central Excise and Land 

Customs, Goa Fr, Division, Belgaum. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, DELHI 

Central Excise 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 , 

S.O. 812. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I empower the officers of Central Excise Collectorate, 



954 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


Delhi, specified in column 1 of the subjoined table to exercise within their juris- 
diction the power of Collector under the Rule shown in column 2. 

Table 


Rank of Officer Central Excise Rules 


Limitations if any 


Superintendents 212 To direct destruction of confiscated 

tobacoo epto a quantity of 25 
standard maund9, whicii due to 
its deteriorated condition fails to 
attract bidders to purchase it 
either on payment of duty or for 
rewarehousing. 


[No. C. V(a)7/4CE/59]6364.] 
B, D. DESHMUKH, Collector, 

MINISTRY OF STEEL MINES AND FEEL 
(Department of Mines and Fuel)" 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 

S.O. 813. — In exercise of tho powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 4 
of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety) Act, 1952 (12 of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby re-appoints Shri S. S, Grewal, Chief Inspector of Mines in 
India, to be a member of the Coal Board with effect from the forenoon of the 2nd 
April, 1989. 

[No. C5-l(8)/59] 
CHHEDI LAL, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Iron and Steel) 

New Delhi, the lit h April 1959 

S.O. 81 4/ESS. COMM/IRON AND STEEL-2 (c)AM(40).— In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-clause (c) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be madci to the notification of the Government of India, in the 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, No S.R.O. 2041/ESS. COMM/IRON AND 
STEED-2(c), dated 11th June, 1957, as amended from time to time, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to thti said notification, in column 2 thereof, against 
•PLINJAB’, for the existing entry No. 7, the following shall be substituted namely: 


2 


“7. Estat'- Offict r and Suh-Divis.0n.1l Officer 
(Building ), Capital Project, Chandigarh 


[No. SC(A) -1 (10) .] 
J. S. BAIJAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 I 

S.O. 815. — Dr. Chithraputhia Pillai Arumugam Pillai, LDSc, (Calcutta) has 
been elected as a member of the Dental Council of India from Madras under 
clause (a) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948), with effect from 
the 18th March, 1959. 

[No. P 6-10/59-MI. T 
R. MURTHI. Under Secy. 



Src. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 955 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Deptts. of Commns. & Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 I 

S.O. 816 .— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraphs 
Rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby specifics the 16th day of Aroril 1959, 
as the date on which message rate system will be introduced at Asansol Telephone 
Exchange. 

[No. 11-7/59-PHC.f 
B. G. DESHMUKH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 9th April 1959 

S.O. 817 . — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints the officers specified in column 1 of Table below as the 
officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries and allowances of the 
officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table shall 
be sent. 


Tabi.e 


Officer to whom nouc.s 10 be sent, 

1 


1. Chief Bo iitnst, Butadical Survey 
of India, C leutia, 

2 . Secretary, C.-mrd Board of 
Geophysics, Calcutta, 

3. Deputy Director, National Atlas 
Organisation, Calcutta. 


Offic-rs whose salaries and allowances 
are -e inched. 

2 


Gazetted & Non-gazeticd offic'rs of 
the Botanical Survey of India. 

Gazetted & Non-gnz.tted officers of 
the Central Board of Geophysics. 
Gazetted & Non-gazetted officers of 
the Nations' Atlas Organisation. 


[No. F.14-79/59-SII.] 
HARI SHANKAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 4th April 1959 

S. O. 818 .— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of Rule 133 
of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that 
the provisions of — 

(i) Rule 118, proviso (a), 

(ii) Rule 119(1) U), 

(iii) Rule 123(7). 

of the said Rules shall bei relaxed in the case of the use of — 

One 4i cu. yd. D. N. Menck Shovel, 3 '3 K.V., No. 39764/64, 

One 400 K,V A, 3 '3 K.V./525 volts, Corbe Lahmayor & Co., transformer 
serial No. NR053612, 

A length of 600 ft, of 4 core, 163/O'OlB sq. inch, cable as per B.S.S. 1110 of 
1956, 

at the Noamundi Iron ore mine of Messrs Tnta Iron & Steel Co. Ltd,, to the extent 
that (i) the working voltage of the said transportable excavating machine may 
not exceed 3,300 volts, (ii) the transformer and other associated equipment may 
not be fixed machines while moving from one place to another when installed on 
the transportable Shovel, and (iii) the length of the flexible cable with the 





956 


THF. GA/ETTE OF INDIA APRIL IS, I9 r j9/CHA1TRA 28, 1881 [1 art II 


transportable machine may not exceed fiOO ft,, and that the relaxation shall be 
subject to the following conditions: 

(1) The 3000 volts supply to the flexible cable should be provided with 

earth-leakage protection, 

(2) The 550 volts supply used in this portable shovel for the different 

drives should also be covered by suitable earth-leakage protection. 

(3) The operators of the shovel should be duly trained and authorised. 

(4) The installations and wirings inside the shovel should comply with 

the relevant provisions of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, in 
particular, Rules 115 to 117, 120, 123 to 125 and 130. 

(5) The excavating machine shall be worked with due care so os to avert 

danger' arising out of any electrical defect and the insulation resist- 
ance of the high voltage circuit, including the main driving motors 
shall not be less than 10 moghoms, 

<6) The flexible trailing cable for use with the excavating machine shall 
be worked with due care so as to avert any danger arising out of 
it, shall be of adequate size and shall be connected to the electricity 
supply system and the machines by properly constructed connector 
boxes; 

Provided that the aforesaid relaxation shall be valid only for such time as 
the said machine, is in use in the mine and that due information shall be given 
to the Central Government through the Electric Inspector of Mines as soon as 
the machine is taken out of the mine. 

[No. EL, 111-3(9) ,59.] 

N. S. VASANT, 
Officer on Special Duty. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the Hth April 1959 | 

S.O. 819. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (11 of Section 6 
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri H. K. Chaudhry for the time being holding the 
post of Regional Settlement Commissioner-cirm-Custodian of Evacuee Property 
Bombay as Custodian for the State of Andhra FTadesh for the purpose of dis- 
charging the duties assigned to such officer by or under the said Act. 

[No. 10(22) Admn(Prop) /58 ] 

S.O. 820. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub- Section (1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), Ihe 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri K. S. Raghavan for the time being hold- 
ing the post of Accounts Officer in the office of the Custodian of Evacuee Pro- 
perty, Hyderabad, as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the 
duties assigned to the Custodian by or under the said Act, with effect from the 
date he took charge of Mb office. 

[No. 16(22) Admn, (Prop) /59.1 
M. L. PURI, 

Settlcmeht Commissioner & Ex-Officio Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 1 

S.O. 821. — In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Emolovccs’ 
Provident Funds Scheme, framed under section 5 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M, V. 
S. Chowdary, B.A, (Hons.), as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner f or the 
whole of the State of Madras vice Shri J. Subbuswami, I.A.S., on leave, Shri M. 
V, S. Chowdary shall work under the general control and superintendence of the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner. 


[No, PF-I/31 (582)/59.j 



$BC. S (\ij] 1 IIL (,A/E1TE OF INDIA: APRIL 18 1059/CHA1 1 RA £8, J 881 957 


New Delhi, the f)lh April 1959 

S.O. 822.— In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Employees’ 
Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, framed under section 5 of the Employees 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Mir Masood Ali Khan to be Regional Provident Fund Commissioner for Ihe 
whole o flic Slat" of Mysort*. Shri Mir Masood Ali Khan shall work under the 
general control and superintendence of the Central Pi evident Fund Commissioner. 

[No. PF-I/31 (584') /59.} 


S.O. 823. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act } 1952 (19 of 19.'2), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri Mir Masood Ali Khan to be ai. Inspector for the whole 
of the State ox Mysore, tor the purposes of the said Act and oi any Scheme made 
thereunder, in relatcon to an establishment belonging to, or under the control of, 
the Central Government or in relation to an establishment connected with a 
railway company, u major port, a mine or an oil-field or a controlled industry, 

I [No. PF-I/31 (584) '59] 

S.O. 824.' — In exercise of the powers conferred by tub-section (1) of section 
13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds' Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri R. R. Kulkarm, Assistant Provident Fund Commission- 
er. Bombay, to be an Inspector for the whole, of the State of Bombay for the 
purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme made thereunder, in relation to an 
establishment belonging to, or under the control of, the Central Government or 
in relation to an establishment connected with a railway company a major port, 
a mine or an oil-licld or a controlled industry. 

LNo. PF-I/31 (58(f) /59.] 


New Delhi, the 11 th April 1959 , 

S.O. 825. — In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the. Employees’ 
Provident Funds Scheme framed under section 5 of Ihe Employees’ Provident 
Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Cental Government hereby appoints Shri D, R. 
Manchanda as Regional Provident Fund Commissioner tor the whole of the. State 
of Punjab vice Shri H. R, Singh deputed to U.K. for training, Shri Manchanda 
shall work under the general control and superintendence of the Central 
Pi evident Fund Commissioner. 

[No, PF-I/3K585) 59,[ 

S.O. 826. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
15 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) and in supersession 
of the notification of the. Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment No S O. 1871 dated the 5th September, 1958 the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri D. R. Manchanda, officiating Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner, Punjab, as an Inspector for the whole oi the State of Punjab for 
the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation 
to an establishment belonging to, or under the control of the Central Govern- 
ment or in relation to an establishment connected with a railway company, a 
major port, a mine or an oil-field or a controlled industry Dice Shri H. R, Singh. 

[No. PF-I/31 (5851/59.] 
P, D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 8th April 1959 

S.O. 827. — The President is pleased to appoint Shri Laxmi Narain Ohri as 
Inspector of Mines in the Department of Mines on probation for one year with 
effect from the 19th March, 1959. 

[No. M-I-8(8)58(i),] 

S.O. 828. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
Uon. j of the Mines Act, 1052 (35 of 1952), the Central Government , oreby appoints 
Shri Laxmi Narain Ohri, an officer of the Department of Mines to be an Inspector 
of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector. 

[No. M-I-8(8)/58(ii). | 
P. N. SHARMA, Under Secy. 



958 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


New Delhi, the Bth April 1959 

SO. 829— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur at Bombay in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Bank of Rajasthan Ltd., Jaipur and their workmen. 


BEFORE SHRI P, D. VYAS, JUDGE, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 

Reference ( CGIT) No, 10 of 1958. 1 


An adjudication between 

The employers in relation to the Bank of Rajasthan Limited, Jaipur, 


AN> 

Their Workmen. 

In thei matter of an industrial dispute relating to Head Cashier’s allowance. 
Appearances: 

Shri C. K. Garg, Advocate with Shri B. L. Sethi, Regional Manager of the 
Bank — for the Management, 

Shri Dayaldas with Shri R. L. Khandelwal, General Secretary of the Union — 
for the workmen. ■ 


AWARD 

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of the sub-section (1) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 the Central Government was pleas- 
ed to refer an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
the Bank of Rajasthan Limited, Jaipur and their workmen for adjudication under 
the Government Order No. LRII/lO(92)/57, dated 7th July, 1958. The dispute 
relates to the matters specified in the schedule annexed to the said Government 
Order, as subsequently amended by the Government Order, of even number 
dated 8th October, 1958. 


The Schedule 

(1) Whether Shri Jamnalal Porwal, Head Cashier of the Bank of Rajasthan 

Lim ted was entitled to Ks. 10 per mensem a« Head Cashier’s allow- 
ance while working at Bhilwara Office of the Bank? 

(2) Whether on his transfer to Jaipur from Bhilwara he should have 

continued to get Rs. 10 per mensem as Head-Cashier’s allowance? 

(3) Whether he was entitled to get Rs. 8 or Rs. 10 or Rs. 20 as Head 

Cashier’s allowance? 


2. On the usual notices being issued, the General Secrptary, Rajasthan Bank 
Employees’ Union has filed the statement of claims on behalf of the workmen 
and the Regional Manager, Bank of Rajasthan Limited, has filed the written state- 
ment on behalf of the Bank, 


3. The case on behalf of the workmen is that Shri Jamnalal Porwal was 
appointed at the Bhilwara office of the Bank on 15th May, 1951, as Head Cashier 
and he had been working as such at the said office. It was after he made a 
claim for special allowance and overtime allowance in February, 1950 and began 
to work as an active member of the Union that he was transferred to Johari 
Bazar Branch of the Bank at Jaipur. He has been so transferred in order to 
deprive him of the Head Cashiers allowance and thus victimize him for his 
trade union activities He was being shown as Head Cashier in various docu- 
ments of the Bank like Tills Book, Attendance Register, Salary Sheets Security 
Bonds etc. and at Bhilwara he used to check the work of other cashiers report 
on the leave applications of other cashiers and keep keys in his possession 
Bhilwara office is a treasury branch and there were three cashiers and more than 
5 clerks when he was working as Head Cashier at Bhilwara Branch Under the 
Bank award a special allowance of Rs. 20 p.m. is payable in case of Cashier-in 
cRarge of Treasury Pay Offices and Rs. 10 p.m. in the units of 5 clerks and above 
Shri Jamnalal Porwal is, therefore., entitled to special allowance of Rs 20 n m 
with effect from 1st April, 1954 The Bank should thus be directed to pay accord- 
ingly and to continue to pay him Head Cashier’s allowance at the same rale in 
future. 



Sec. 3 (ti)] THE GA/E I IE OI INDIA : APRII, 18, 1959 /CHAITRA 28, 1981 959 


4. The Bank in its written statement has raised certain preliminary objections 
against the present reference because Shxi Jamnalal Porwal has been referred, to 
as Head Cashier of the Bank in the terms of reference. The Banks case is that 
he was at no time the Head Cashier and if it were so found, the present reference 
is bad in law and liable to be rejected. Thei Bank has further contended that 
the subsequent amendment in item No. 3 of the schedule is incompetent ana 
without jurisdiction. In resisting the case of the workmen on merits the riant 
alleges that Shri Jamnalal Porwal applied for the post of a Cashier in the 
Bhilwara Branch and he was appointed as such on a salary of Rs. 55 p.m. in the 
grades of Rs. 50-4-70. He never worked as Head Cashier at Bhilwara Branch nor 
was he, given officially any such designation. The documents and books referred 
to in the statement of claims when considered as a whole do not show him as 
Head Cashier or lead to the conclusion that the Bank accepted him as such. In 
any case this controversy has -been set at rest by the Qi’der of the General Manager 
dated 27th December, 1957, whereby he was allowed an allowance of Rs. 8 per 
month by way of concession while he was at Bhilwara, Except in point of fact 
■that thei keys of the cash of the Bank were being kept by him under the double 
lock system with the Manager, at no time he had any cashier or clerk working 
under his control. After his transfer to Jaipur he is working as a routine 
Cashier, His transfer took place in the ordinary course of the Management of 
the Bank and in furtherance of the policy of the Bank for implementing the 
Bank Award without causing loss to the employees. A large number of transfers 
were made in or about the same period. In the circumstances the reference 
should b& rejected in favour of the Bank together with costs. 


5. It may be noted that the preliminary objections raised in the Bank's written 
statement have not been pressed or argued at the time of the hearing and in fact 
there, is not much substance in the same. The terms of reference do not prevent 
an inquiry as to whether Shri Jamnalal Porwal was a Head Cashier of the Bank 
of Rajasthan Limited. If he is found to be a Head Cashier, then we have to 
determine the amount payable to him as Head Cashier’s allowance! under the 
Bank Award while was working at Bhilwara office of the Bank and also to decide 
whether even on his transfer from Bhilwara to Jaipur he should continue to get 
the same amount bv way of Head Cashier’s allowance. We have therefore first 
to decide whether Shri Jamnalal Porwal was really a Head Cashier of the Bank 
of Rajasthan Ltd. and was working as such at Bhilwara office of the Bank. 


6, It was on 5th March, 1951, that Shri Porwal applied to the General Manager, 
Bank of Rajasthan, Limited stating that there existed a vacancy of Cashier at 
the Bank’s Bhilwara Branch for which post he offered himself as a candidate 
In stating his qualifications h c mentioned the fact that he had been working as 
Head Cashier in Bharat. Bank Limited, Bhilwara since the last five years— vide 
Ex. C-4, On receipt of this application he was served with the appointment letter 
dated 15th May, 1951 (Ex. C-5) on a pay of Rs. 55 plus the D.A, in the grade of 
Rs. 60-4-70. The appointment letter states inter alia that the Bank shall have 
the right to allot any duties to him and shall have the right to transfer him to 
any place where the Bank may need his services. The order of appointment 
does not state in terms as to whether he was appointed as an ordinary Cashier 
or Head Cashier but there can be no doubt that almost right from the beginning 
m most of the company’s records including registers, correspondence etc. he was 
being shown as Head Cashier. This fact receives further support from the higher 
amount of security which he was required to furnish. The amount of security 
“i “te ease Cashiers is Rs. 3,000 and for Head Cashiers it is Rs. 5.000. It is true 
that the Bank has now in its attempt to show that Shri Jamnalal Porwal was 
working as Cashier produced certain papers. But even the management could 
not deny or overcome the overwhelming effect of the documentary evidance as a 
whole indicating the fact that Shri Porwal was right from the beginning treated 
as Head Cashier. s 


7. The most important document is the Attendance register where in the 
month of April 1951 the name of Shri Jamnalal Porwal at serial No. 11 appear^ 
to have been subsequently added with the designation Cashier. The ink differs 
from that of the other entries and there is no attendance marked with his initials 
as in the case of other employees. As a matier of fact the appointment letter of 
Shri Porwal is dated 15th May, 1951, and is difficult to understand how there 
could occur any such entry In the month of April 1951. In fact from the next 
month onwards, i.e. from May 1951 hc on his appointment is being shown in the 
register as Head Cashier. When right from the beginning he is shown as head 
cashier, it is just probable that in view of his previous exjieriencc as head cashier, 
he was entrusted wiih the duties of a head cashier and treated as such. In the 
extract of the salary sheets Ex. (U-2) he has been shown as Head Cashier and 



960 THE CA/ri 1C OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CI1 AITR A 28. 1881 [Part 11 


he gave the security bond as per Ex. U-5 in his capacity as Head Cashier at 
Bhilwara Branch of the Bank on 19th April, 1952. The then Manager of the 
Bank gave a certificate dated 6th April, 1953 (Ex, U-0) that Shri Porwal worked 
with him as Head Cashier for about two years and that his work was very satis- 
factory, The Bank’s notification Ex. U-7 indicates the difference between the 
security to be furnished by the Head Cashier and Assistant Cashiers, It was 
as such that on his transfer to Jaipur Branch of the Bank he handed over the 
charge to his successor as Head Cashier (Ex. U-10). 

8. Shri Porwal has made an affidavit describing his duties as per Ex. U-ll 
and it was argued on behalf of the management that all these duties have not 
been mentioned in the statement of claims filed on behalf of the workmen. 
Ordinarily a workman comes forward with a case that mere designation should 
not count and that in order to determine the wages he is entitled to as belonging 
to a particular category, what has to be seen is the essential nature of the duties 
performed by him. In the present case however, the management has come 
forward with such a plea. In the first place we can conceive of a case where a 
man of higher category knowingly or through oversight or mistake being des- 
cribed as of lower category, but I have hardly come across a case where the 
management would bei so careless or indifferent as to give a higher designation 
to a worker, even though he belongs to and does the work of a lower category. 
The overwhelming evidence on record indicates that Shri Porwal was shown 
right from the time of his appointment as Head Cashier and it hardly lies in 
the mouth of the management to sav that though shown as head-Cashier, he 
actually performed the duties of an ordinary cashier. In fact he cannot be placed 
on par with other cashiers, especially when it has not been denied that he was 
in-cnarge of the cash and entrusted with the keys apart from the other duties 
which he performed. The general supervision of the Branch Manager is bound 
to be there but here is a cashier holding keys and performing responsible duties 
in regard to cash. J-Ic. did not stand on the same level as other cashiers and the 
cumulative effect of the evidence on record which even the management could 
not withstand is that he was not merely shown as Head Cashier but he actually 
worked as such. It is true that ordinarily mere designation in the absence of 
standardization of duties may not serve as a correct guide as to the real position 
held by a particular worker. But in the present case the management itself felt 
constrained to set the controversy at rest by the order of the General Managcr 
dated 27th December, 1957 — vide Ex. U-l under which Shri Porwal was allowed 
the special allowance of Rs, 8 p.m. as Head Cashier at Bhilwara with retrospec- 
tive effect from 1st April, 1954. Not only this but as it appears from the Bank’s 
written statement, even on his transfer to Jaipur the payment of this allowance 
has not been discontinued because of the genuine fear on the part of the Bank 
that it might amount to a demotion. Under all these circumstances there could 
be no doubt that right from the time of his appointment at Bhilwara Shri Porwal 
worked os Head Cashier and was being treated as such. 

9. We have next to dec.de the quantum of special allowance payable to Shrj 
Porwal in his capacity as Head Cashier under paragraph 164 of the. Bank award. 
This is a 'C’ class Bank and if we refer to the items 3 & 4, the amounts payable 
would be Rs 10 m rase of units of 5 clerks and above and Rs. 8 in case of units 
of 4 clerks and below. In the statement of claims it is alleged that in the 
Bhilwara branch office there were three cashiers and more than five clerks when 
Shri Porwal was working as Head Cashier, On the point of the. strength of the 
staff however he has not much enlightened us in his affidavit. On the contrary 
there is an affidavit of the Branch Manager on behalf of the management which 
indicates that when Shri Porwal was at Bhilwara, there were besides h.msclf two 
other cash.ers from 1C51 to October, 1952 and July, 1955 to July 1956 and only 
one other cashier from November, 1952 to June. 1955 In ray opinion he would 
be entitled to the special allowance of Rs. 8 only and not Rs. 10. The worker 
concerned however has not much confined his case to the question as to whether 
Rs 10 or Rs. 8 should be payable to him as special allowance. He has gone 
further and tried to put his case under the item No. 8 in order to claim Rs. 20. 
The item No. 8 in pa’Tigraph 164 of the award relates to the "cashiers In charge, 
of cash m Treasury pay offices and employees in charge of pay offices or sub- 
offices.” Obviously this is not a provision specially made for a Head Cashier as 
such, though of course even if a Head Cashier was incharge of cash in Treasury 
Pay office or was an employee incharge of pay office or sub-office, he would be 
entitled to claim the allowance of Rs. 20. This new claim on the part of the 
worker concerned stems to be an after-thought and he is entitled to claim no 
such allowance of Rs. 20 in view of the fact that at Bhilwara there is a regular 
branch of the Bank and it is neither a pay-office nor a sub-office. The branch 
may be doing the Government work but that does not make it a pay office. Even 
the workmen’s representative could not urge that the Bhilwara branch is a pay 



SEC. 3 ( 11 )] THF (.A/F.'l IE (>!■ INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAI1 RA 28, 1881 961 


office; and what he urged is that when such special allowance has been provided 
tor in the case of pay offices, there is no reason why the Head Cashier performing 
similar duties with some responsibilities should not be likewise entitled to similar 
allowance. According to him in the Bank Award the case 01 such Banks which 
act as bankers to the State Government and run treasury has been overlooked 
and consideration has been given only to pay offices which as is commonly known 
only the State Bank of India has. It may be noted that such pay offices specially 
provided ax small places do not perform the functions of a full-fleged branch of 
the Bank and as an ordinary cashier or uny other employee can be placed in 
charge thereof, his remuneration is further supplemented by a higher allowance 
looking to the responsibilities attached to his sole-charge. Moreover the case 
before us is not of an independent adjudication on merits. The workers’ claim 
is based on the Bank Award and if the Bank Award has chosen to provide for 
such special allowance only in the. case of pay offices he has no case to demand / 
any such allowance of Rs. 20. 

10. In the circumstances slated above we find that Shri Porwal in his capacity 
as Head Cashier at Bhilwara Branch was entitled to the special allowance of 
Rs 8 with effect from 1st April, 1954 under the Bank Award. This fact has 
bttn recognised by the Bank under its aforesaid order of the General Manager 
dated 27th December, 1957. What the management has, however, done is that 
the payment of this special allowance of Rs. 8 has not been actually made but 
has been adjusted m a certain manner. Under the Bank Award the pay scales 
were prescribed for the different categories of workmen and in making adjust- 
ment in ihe new scales no one was to be adversely affected. The Bank is aware 
of this fact and it lias been mentioned in its own written statement that if a 
workman was already receiving a higher amount, then the. difference was to be 
treated as temporary adjustment allowance which was to be adjusted against 
future increments according to the recommendations m the Report of the Bank 
Award Commiss.on So lar as this Bank n. concerned, it has not chosen to make 
any such adjustment against the future increments and this temporary adjust- 
ment allowance was continued to be paid to its employees in the shape of ex~ 
gratia allowance under the Gene al Manager’s order dated 7th Febtuary, 1956. On 
1st April, 1954 Shri Porwal wa; already getting Rs. 80 plus Rs. 30 as D.A., i.e., 
Rs. HO and in order to carry out the adjustment under the award, the amount 
of Rs 110 as on 1st April, 1954 was made, up thus: Rs. 63 basic, Rs. 25 D.A. and 
Rs. 22 temporary adjustment allowance. 

11. Thus Shn Porwal was entitled to get this Rs. 22 for temporary adjustment 
.allowance as ex-gratia allowance according to the general practice followed by 
the Bank in the case of 'all its employees. But when the claim of special allow- 
ance as Head Cashier was advanced by him which the Bank could hardly deny 
in ihe circumstances of the case, what the Bank did was to withdraw this conces- 
sion of ex-gratia allowance and adjust the special Head Cashier’s allowance of 
Rs 8 as against the said temporary adjustment allowance of Rs. 22 so as to reduce 
it to Rs, 14 and to show the difference of Rs. 8 as Head Cashier’s allowance. Thus 
what was given with one hand has been taken away by the other keeping in- 
tact the same total payment of Rs. 110. This is entirely a wrong method followed 
bv the Bank and according to the recommendations m the Report of the Bank 
Award Commiss.on this temporary adjustment allowance was to bo adjusted 
in a certain manner against the future increments. The Bank has not chosen to 
follow this line in the case of its employees and there is no reason why the Bank 
should depart from its usual practice and discriminate against this worker just 
to defeat his claim of special allowance as Head Cashier. In my opinion the 
Bank ought to pay Rs. 3 as special allowance to Shri Porwal as Head Cashier 
with effect irom 1st April, 1954 for the period of his service at Bhilwara irrespec- 
tive of and without bringing in the question of the temporary adjustment allow- 


12. Then the next question is whether he should continue to receive the same 
1 as°R W on C t ° n ? 1S t r ansler from Bhilwara to Jaipur. He left charge on 27th July, 
1956 on transfer from Bhilwara and joined at Jaipur on 1st August, 1956 At 
is P“ ted an ordinary cashier but, as said above, in order to avoid 
the charge of demotion the Bank has continued to pay the special allowance of 
Hs. 8 which he was entitled to as Head Cashier. Thus at present he draws Rs 90 
as basic, Rs. 8 as special allowance, Rs. 37 34 D.A., t.e. in all Rs 135- 34 The 
worker s claim is that he should get Rs. 90 as basic plus Rs. 20 as special allow- 
an +-^i a 5 lc * ^ S ' ^U 88 as D-A.-' i.e., Rs. 151 '89. I have already said that he is not 
•entiUed to get Rs, 20 and as Head Cashier he is entitled to the special allowance 
, «?■■ 8 „ wl * h effect from 1st April, 1954. If the Bank has made anv adjustment 
■of this special allowance towards temporary adjustment allowance, it is incorrect 
to do so, in view of the fact that the Bank continued to pay the said tempSa^ 



962 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : \PRIf, 1H, l'J'ZI/CHAITRA 28, 1881 [Part II 


adjustment allowance as ex-gratia allowance to all its workers. So also Shri 
Porwal having right from the beginning worked as Head Cashier and beung treated 
as such, it would not be proper on the part of the Bank to post him as an ordinary 
Cashier on transfer and thus deprive him of the benefit of special allowance pay- 
able to him. It is pertinent to note that his transfer has not taken place in (he 
normal administrative exigencies of the Bank but we were told that many such 
transfers have been made with a view to carry out the implementation of the 
Bank Award. It was never the intention of the Bank Tribunal that benefits 
admissible to the workers under the award should be adjusted by means of 
transfer. On the point of policy regarding transfer, there is the Chapter XXVIII 
in the Bank Awurd and the direction in paragraph 536 is that in general the 
policy should be to limit the transfers to the minimum consistent with banking 
needs and efficiency, In paragraph 537 it has been observed: “Strictly limiting 
the number of transfers will greatly reduce the difficulty of shifting people as 
between higher scale and lower scale areas in the matter of pay and allow- 
ances, . , ,” In the present case it will be, open to the Bank to take duties of a 
Head Cashier from Shri Porwal on. his transfer, in which case the amount pay- 
able to him in future will depend on as to whether his ease falls under item 
No. 3 or No. 4 of the, paragraph 164 of the Bank Award. 

13. In the result I direct that Shri Porwal was entitled to special allowance 
of Rs, 8 as Head Cashier while he was working at Bhilwara office of the Bank 
with effect from 1st April, 1954. On his transfer to Jaipur from Bhilwara the 
amount payable to him will depend on the position of the Jaipur branch as to 
whether his cam falls uudei the items Nos, 3 or 4 of para 164 of the Bank Award. 
If it is a unit of 5 clerks and above, then he is entitled to Rs. 10 and if it is a unit 
of 4 clerks and below, then he would be, entitled to Rs. 8. At present he is 
posted as an ordinary cashier and it will be open to the Bank to take the work 
from him of a Head Cashier and puy the allowance of Rs. 8 or 10 according as 
his case falls under the items 3 & 4 and until that is done the only direchon 
that can be given at this stage is that the Bank should continue to pay him the 
special allowance of Rs. 8 which he was already getting at Bhilwara. 

The 28th March, 1959. 

(Sd.'l P. D. Was, Judge , 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Nagpur at Bombay. 

[No. LRII 10(92)57.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1959 

S.O. 830. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial' 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Lloyds Bank Limited, Madras 
and their workmen in respect of the, matters specified m the schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri F. Jeejecbhoy, shall be the Presiding Officer, witti headquarters at Bombay 
and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said industrial tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the discharge of Shri Munian Arumugam by the Lloyds Bank 
Limited, was justified and in order; and, if not, to what relief he is 
entitled , 


[No, LRII-10(20)/59.] 


New Delhi, the 7th April 1959 I 

S.O. 831. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Laxmi Bank Limited, Head 
Office, Akola and their workmen in respect of the matters specified In the 
schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said' 
dispute for adjudication; 



Sec. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 18, 1959/CHAITRA 28, 1881 963 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri F. Jeejeebhoy, Chairman, Labour Appellate Tribunal, shall be the Presiding 
Officer, with headquarters at Bombay and refers the said dispute for adjudication 
to the said industrial tribunal. 


Schedule 

1. Whether the cashiers given power of attorney or similar powers under a 

Resolution of the Board of Directors by the Laxmi Bank Limited, 
Akola, are performing duties of more important nature and under- 
taking heavier responsibilities than those performed or undertaken by 
the cashiers of this Bank with no such powers? 

2. If so, should the cashiers holding the. power of attorney or similar powers 

under a Resolution of the Board of Directors, be paid an allowance 
for such duties and responsibilities at a rate higher than the special 
allowance paid to cashiers without such powers? If so, what should 
be the rate payable to them and from what date? 

< [No. LRII-10(31)/59.] 

K. D. HAJELA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi-2, the 9 th April 1959 1 l 

S.O. 832. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 4 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958 read with section 3(1) of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri M. Satyanarayana, M.P., as a member of the Central Board of Film Censors 
with immediate effect. 

I 1 [No. F. 11/5/59-FC.] 

D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAOER. GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS. 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS. DELHI, 1959 




